

i *
I (if
17
/2
1:
»<
*
gar
V
uuii
w
vrvrv \
-:
»i«i
IfL
!
MORLtY
iK*i
NOftROUI
m
m
SIS
r* ,r > ie»v
WHITE HORSE
STILL BETTER AND OLDER
THAN EVER
WHITE HORSE has for years held the position of being
the leading whisky in Scotland. Its excellence of quality is
recognised everywhere.
During 1931 it will be even better and older than before.
This is made possible by the vast stocks of the finest whiskies
laid down many years ago and now fully matured. If, there-
fore, you appreciate Real Old Scotch, always ask for, and
insist on having, the senior whisky of Scotland.
SE
Sold in various sizes, of bottles—all bearing our guarantee of perfect quality.
The Bulletin
ttbcJf (XfhOTAt~~ Olkw~ (Bd#J<-& ? (Paac S.
Vol. 52.—N0. 2674.
Wednesday, May 13, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


)UR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Storu Writing
O i UI V> at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
. SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address ...«•«•••
S.B. 231
HAIR
0
tr
NItLD
HERES
WJ -
w
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your . chemist
or storekeeper for—
StPCdlvris cmcxican)
Ukdnui Stcum,
♦removes the grey
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
// unobtainable locally, posted
direct (-/ 0) , 61. being postage.
e
I
a cleai
/I
MINDandBODy
:
W
w
canreot be
J[ perfectly “fit” if
your system is
being slowly poisoned
by toxins arising from imperfect or
incomplete elimination. Such con-
ditions cause bodily fatigue and menta;
weariness, and reduce efficiency.
A clean, properly functioning diges-
tive system is an essential Co health.
Keep your intestinal tract clean and
healthy with the aid of Figsen, the
natural, safe laxative. Does not purge
or gripe, does not create habits, has
90 unpleasant after effects and is just
as good for children as their elders.
Figsen is pleasant and easy to take,
and you can rely on it.
FIGSEN
There is a Nyat
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail- j
ment /
Sold only by
Chemists
V 3
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Soap
For Daily Use in the
Home and
(nliciira
Ointment
To Soothe and Heal
Skin Troubles
Soap Ib. Ointment Is. and 2». Talcum Ib. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.V.
luticina
SOAP.
?!
MEDICINAL
;
> / / / rrr /
uticura
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population.
$
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier*
has a Circulation which is
approxima tely
es%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
C ontemporary.
■* * *
Fou can get more of these interest-
ing fads regarding the Queensland
MarTcet, from:
Che Brisbane Conner*
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT, D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.;
’Phone 85007. ,/
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
1V.0.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE “WOMAN’S
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVER'*'
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A Superb Cockney
If it is part of the reviewer’s job to, try to
share what he has found good with others,
then I think reviewers everywhere ought to
set up as spruikers on the twelve-and-six-
penny boards of Albert Grope: The Story of
a Belated Victorian, by F. 0. Mann (Faber
and Faber; Dymocks). The sub-title is not
the best, but that is the only hole I want to
pick in a novel extraordinarily, almost ex-
travagantly, rich in humor, sensitive in
pathos, as clean as a cherry and quite as
fragrant. I object to the sub-title because
it is what the work certainly is not—a
trifle restrictive. Even so, it suggests nar-
rowness, and in that sense indicates the
Cockney character of Albert; but I think
Miss Ayscue, of the Fiddler’s Hill Literary
Society, better describes him: “How naive
and candid you are!” she cried. “How veiy
English! No other race on earth could
have produced you.” From which it is not
to be inferred that he is typically English.
He is not. He is absolutely without a sense
of wit. He is one of the most unfunny men
to create true fun that I have met. There
is a quality in his obtuseness, as there is in
many people of the kind, which attracts fun
to him like a magnet. His story is not so
much a story as a gallery of quaint fish.
They all talk by the yard, and yet they all
manage to ring true. Meet one of them—
Mr. Phoenix, the eccentric dipsomaniac
artist; or rather meet more of Albert Grope;
you can’t meet any of them without know-
ing Albert better. There has been a
bachelor party; it is about midnight; the
beer is almost drunk, and Mr. Phoenix is
quite drunk, doing drawings for the edifica-
tion of Grope and another:—
Finally he actually drew me trying to sell a
tattered old Bible to a poor widow for five shillings.
I did not think this anything like so good as his
other attempts; the subject, in the first place, was
quite absurd—we could never sell Bibles at all, let
alone at that price.
Albert is a second-hand bookseller, so we
may take his word for it. The Fiddler’s
Hill Literary Society comes rather late in
his career, and there his poetic sign-writing,
carried on as a side-line, deeply affects Miss
Ayscue, one effort in particular: “‘No jam
like Stinger’s,’ he greedily said; and that
little boy bust as he got into bed.” His
courting is as much an uproar as it is
strangely pathetic, and the death of Mr.
Phoenix is a most poignant splash of real-
ism. Indeed, there are many deaths in the
599 pages, and every one is memorably
real. Perhaps because thgre is proportion-
ately more life. The novel teems with
people of no consequence whatever; but
they live. F. O. Mann has the Dickens
touch.
A Woman Walloper
While the going is bright one can mention
Women and Children Last, by Beverley
Nichols (Cape; Eoycroft; 7s, 6d.net). The
author is one of the Smartest journalists
aliye, and his reputation rests mainly on his
biting criticisms of what he would doubtless
be the first to call the unfair sex,*if, as
with most of what he has to say, somebody
or other had n<pt got in ahead of him. His
main cannon is the old, but never old-
fashioned, belief that to get any good oui
of women you must treat ’em rough, an
idea that never had stronger support than
from the fact that, while he vicariously
so treats women, women are his chief public
After reading his latest, in which he treats
em very rough indeed, women will doubt-
less do .two things they have done before :
(1) Write and tell him that he is “crazier
than a bed-bug,” or, in the equally elegant
language of United States young ladies, that
he is a bum; (2) read his next book. A
bachelor rampant, he sees no reason why, in
a cargo of 50 men and 50 women, the’so
women should consider it their divine right
to occupy the one lifeboat and leave the 50
men to drown. He chuckles hugely at
woman’s reactions to the gigolo, a breed
l AP wn Jiere I know a dance-hall proprietor
who imports gigolos but cannot keep them
because women with money lure them away.
One other point he makes is that wars
woum be at least less common if some of
the white-feather Amazons, the grim-jawed
committee women, the bouncing amateur
nurses, and the whole poisonous crhw of
feminine warmongers were put into khaki
and sent to the front trenches.... Yes, yes,
dear. He’s a nasty man!
Foch’s Memoirs
Perhaps Foch would have laughed at that
last idea of Beverley’s—perhaps. To judge
him by the picture of himself presented in
The Memoirs of
M arsha l Foch
(Heinemann; Roy-
croft; 255.), the
leader of the Allies
was too much of a
decorative Albert
to laugh at anything. The war to
nim was a grim game of chess, played with
iron pieces. His book is a cold and techni-
cal record of that game, about as entertain-
mg as half a ton of lead. Apparently, his
wildest burst of humor was when, he said:
PnJLlft the I ® ader ,°f an orchestra. Here are the
r,n o lish basses, here the American baritones, and there
the French tenors. When I raise my baton, every
P Bjr or else he must not come to my
His translator, Colonel T. Bentley Mott,
however, once surprised him in a mighty
kittenish mood:—
One day as I saluted him, he paused as though
inviting- me to speak, and I ventured the remark that
, Gel , lna l ls s T e T emed to be getting more than they
could stand. He camd up dose to me, took a firm
S^V d V Vlth h i s left hand and with bis
™% ht M del^ vered a punch at my chin, a hook under
my ribs ana another drive at my ear; he then
shouldered his stick and without a single word
marched on to the chateau.
I have no doubt the book is a supremely
important work to a limited public, though
iA even those who have to study
the ungentle art to open the attack by
putting down a solid barrage of aspirin.
A Ruler and a Rake
It is one of the blessings of mixed read-
ing that, however heavy the meal, there is
usually a fair supply of bismuth about; and
it is a neat package of it that is wrapped
up m Royal Charles: Ruler and Rake, by
David Loth (Routledge; 15s. net). I do
not care for it quite as much as for
the same breezy writer’s Lorenzo the Mag-
nificent, but the comparison is perhaps
between the earlier and later ruler than
between the earlier and later Loth. For all
the spectacular attributes of the civil wars,
the flight in poverty to Paris, the poor-
relation reception there, the turning down
of his Royal person by ladies who chased
him later, the abortive return to Scotland,
the ultimate entry into London, and plague
me and debauchery, Charles 11. has not
the picturesque figure of Lorenzo nor is
there a like full color of pageantry about
mm. Yet the choice of him by Loth was
good. Loth has a, judicial fondness for rakish
heroes; likes without worshipping, and is
unsparing without being contemptuous. His
Charles, falling into the ways, sans the
wisdom, of Solomon, yet stands up in his
pages a king. Loth adorns him with only
two virtues, tolerance and a sense of humor
if such interlocked virtues may be divided
Called Old Rowley after a stallion in the.
Royal stud no one enjoyed the jest more
than he did. Provided it had humor, he
niade no attempt to check the prevalent
literature attacking his person or morals.
He could never have believed that a country
80 mouldy-minded as Australia—which
called up three more worthless and in-
nocuous books the other day—could have
existed. His tolerance found other expres-
sion It intervened against mob-passion
retribution when, after years of suffering, he
got to the throne; and it intervened again
and prevented even worse when, after the
Great Fire, the rumor that Catholics had
been responsible went close to starting
a massacre. It is Loth’s greatest merit
that he has both Charles’s virtues. - To him
a man s. a man in spite of a great many
more things than Burns thought of.
Two Novels
Two good-reading novels that might be
suggested as being some little distance above
vr 6re / ime^,^ers are Helen Ferguson’s Let
Me Alone, a clever piece of penwork in
colorful settings published a while ago by
Cape at 6s. 6d., and Hugh Walpole’s adven-
ture into the horrible, Above the Dark
Circus (Macmillan; 7s. 6d.). Each is by a
Writer in the capital sense of the word.
Red Page.
The Übiquitous Australian
Across Africa on Foot, by Ronald A.
Monson (Elkin Mathews and Marrot; 18s.
net). is the latest record of the übiquity of
the Australian. Monson was a journalist in
Perth. He read one morning in the papers
that an Australian who intended to walk
across the Dark Continent was in the city,
and promptly offei’ed to throw up his job
and join the adventurer in Capetown. In
due course the expedition set out to loud
blasts of press publicity. It met its first
disaster after the first 1000 miles, when
the newspapers discovered that Monson’s
companion was not what he professed to be
—a lieutenant in the Australian Air Force.
Monson was faced with the prospect of
continuing the journey of 7620 miles alone,
and he actually did so for another 1000
é


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
The wisdom oj Anthony Hordemtf.
Anthony
Horderns
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Astounding!
Genuine
mn->
Mm
gs
m
m
Es 1
SSttS&s*
*'47
SB9
A Genuine £lO Three-Valve
Screened-Grid Radio Set
s
m
■tsS
■M
/
Can be built in 90 minutes
iM
Vild
mi
**N
SHv
Out
Everything you need, includ-
ing Valves, Cabinet and Tools,
is packed in a sealed carton,
as illustrated at left. Loud
Sp.eaker and Batteries are not
included.
Extra Accessories
Required.
2-volt 60-A.H. Accumulator.
Price 15/-
I 20-volt B Battery.
Price £l/10/-
Cone-type Loud Speaker.
Price, from £l/10/-
UNI CAR & RADIO BATTERIES
GUARANTEED BY ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Every “Uni” Battery is constructed under the strictest supervision of expert
craftsmen, the finest materials only being used.
6-volt 1 1 plate. Constant Rating. Price 48/-
6-volt 13 plate. Constant Rating. Price 55/-
6-volt 15 plate. Constant Rating. Price 62/6
12-volt 7 plate. Constant Rating. Price 78/-
Radio 2-volt 60. Constant Rating. A.H 15/-
4-volt 60. Constant Rating. A.H 30/-
4-volt 80. Constant Rating. A.H 35/-
6-volt 60. Constant Rating. A.H 42/6
6-volt 80. Constant Rating. A.H. 45/-
(Motor Accessories, Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
3130
For quality of reproduction, majestic volume,
natural tone, ease of operation and economy
of maintenance the Cossor Melody Maker is
without equal.
Never before have such amazing results been
possible with only three valves.
Build it according to the simple instructions
enclosed and you’ll be proud of it. In appear-
ance and performance it will be indistinguish-
able from any Receiver costing three times the
price.
Anthony Horderns’ have secured a limited
number only, and are offering them at a special
Sale Price. Price £lO
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . . £3/15/-
(Wireless Dept., Second Floor. Free Delivery City
and Suburbs only.)
e
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Anthony Horderns'
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


HERE
I I .L- I L
WE BELIEVE
IS THE FINEST
HEAVY DUTY
TYRE
ever
manufactured
in Australia/
“HEAVY DUTY” is the name of this
newest Goodyear Tyre, but the words
“Hpmvi? Duty” can record only part of
its sturdy excellence
It has a thicker tread, a broader tread,
a greater air capacity ,
The extra rubber in its All-Weather
tread gives it much longer wear and
increased safety of traction. . . . .
The greater air capacity makes this
new and better balloon tyre luxur-
iously comfortable to ride on . . . and
also enables it to carry heavy loads
without undue strain on the tyre itself.
But sturdiness and economy are not
the only reasons for this new tyre’s
superiority. It is equally as distinguish-
ed in appearance. Handsome new
prisms of rubber reinforce the
shoulders of this Heavy Duty Tyre,
making it ruggedly beautiful, and a
gleaming silver stripe on its side-
walls sets it off on any motor car.
If you drive far and fast... if you take
pride in the appearance of your
motor car .. . then you will certainly
want these remarkable new Goodyear
Heavy Duty Tyres. ... . . . *
I.
Ifak.-
V
Goodyear Tyres are Made in
Australia and cost no more
than any other make.
C5-S


5-GUINEA PRICE . . .
8-GUINEA LOOK
'
iliil
■
■
. ;
'Js&i
■ ill
'v£V' , ?•' 1 {
■ v, fwmm
ENGLISH STYLE OVERCOATS
EXACT COPIES OF ENGLISH
MODELS BUT NOW MADE IN
AUSTRALIA I
To produce a coat with that per-
fect cut English look for sgns. isn’t
the work of a day. David Jones'
have achieved it only after years
of patient endeavour. Now you can
get a coat which all your previous
buying experience tells you should
be at least 8 guineas for 105/-
Style Raglan with close-fitting
Shoulders and full swing skirt.
yy[aterials — High-grade pure wool
Tweed.
Joinings High-grade English art.
silk.
Colors Grey, Brown, Fawn.
Cfitlings. One for almost every
figure.
105/-
Lower Ground Floor, New Store and at
George Street
DAVID JONES
For Service ’Phone M 4404
miles or so. In Johannesburg, however, he
had met J. H. Wilson, another Australian,
practising accountancy. Subsequently
Wilson joined him, and 15 months’ later
the two young men walked into Cairo, the
first white men to cross the continent - on
foot.
Merely from the physical aspect the feat
was noteworthy, but in addition Monson is
a most engaging observer. Nowhere does
he try to make their adventures sound
lurid, though lurid adventures in plenty
happened to them. They were charged by
elephants and rhinos and hunted by lions,
and much of the time they walked in the
trance induced by the poison of the malarial
mosquito. Their sufferings were terrific.
Where other expeditions usually travelled
with safaris of anything up to 150 natives,
they had to be content, for financial reasons,
with three, and for part of the way the
faithful Lumbumbashi was their sole
defence against the unknown menaces of the
jungle, the desert and tribal hostility.
Monson’s graphic pen makes every stage
of the varied journey interesting. When
aviation becomes the accepted mode of
travel it will .be necessary to subsidise such
expeditions in order to rediscover forgotten
continents.
P.O.M.
Valets, and Cranks
“Jeames” (R.P. 15/4/’3l) holds that
Bertrand Russell was imprisoned not be-
cause of the clearness of his mind but
because of his “crankiness.” What are the
facts (not the facts as understood in the
servants’ hall) ? Russell looks on war as
the most hopeless and futile of human insti-
tutions, and it was his view that it was
the duty of every intelligent person to work
for peace, not for victory, since victory in
the economy of Europe was absolutely
impossible. We now know to our cost that
he was right. Therefore he was imprisoned
for the superior clarity of his mind.
But perhaps “Jeames” has only read Ethel
Mannin’s amusing gossip about Russell.
That would be in the right tradition of the
servants’ hall. In any case, the examples
of Russell’s crankiness quoted from Miss
Mannin’s book are not cranky at all. It is
normal for a child to steal. As Russell
points out, the acquisitive instinct is so
powerfully implanted in every human being
not bom dead that any system of education
which does not take cognisance of the fact
is bound to fail. At present we educate
the acquisitive child to become a perfectly
respectable capitalist. Some day we will
educate him to be something less mutually
destructive and more civilised.
Russell is also quite right in wanting
people to be allowed to send pornographic
postcards through the post to their hearts’
content, instead of the censorship making
thrilling mysteries of them. Senders and
receivers would alike soon get bored. A
couple of years ago a Sydney weekly news-
paper attained a Victorian circulation in the
region of a quarter of a million by supply-
ing Melbourne’s pornographic needs. Long
before the paper was suppressed the circula-
tion had dropped to a fifth, the mystery
having evaporated. What “Jeames” really
wants is to keep pornography respectable by
confining it, as to the servants’ hall, to
backstairs whisperings, and, as to his
masters, to club smoking-rooms.
“Jeames” says that parents who preach
certain principles to their children spank
them when they find the children carrying
them out. This is not necessarily a con-
demnation of the principles. It only shows
that the parents don’t really believe in
them. As for Russell’s attitude towards the
“natural vices,” it would be impossible to
explain them to “Jeames” in his present
excited state.
F.S.
A Satchel of Books
Harry Edmonds, author of Red Desert
(Ward. Lock and Co.; 7s. 6d.), fought in
the A.1.F., though an Englishman. His
“The North Sea Mystery” was compared by
several critics to “The Riddle of the Sands,”
and this book has its predecessor’s qualities
of suspense and easy, simple style. It is the
story of how two brave men—an Englishman
and a Frenchman—died in the flower of
their manhood during the Agadir trouble
20 years ago. Their lives are linked up with
the present through a charming girl, who
was the daughter of one and the niece of the
other. That is the theme of the book. “Men
pass, by with word and deed, All that’s
left is earth and seed.” Not a new theme,
but beautifully handled.
The last novel of the late and much lamented
W. Pett Ridge, Led by Westmucott (Methuen ;
7s. 6d. net), is well up to his standard.
The people in this amusing story of a middle-
aged, rather futile Londoner who retires to
become an outer suburbanite, and after a
year or so is persuaded by his former cliief,
Sir Felix, to go back to the city, are Eng-
lish through and through. And not the least
English of . them in his kindliness, loyalty
and humor is. Sir Felix, who is only Eng-
lish by adoption. There are no villainous
characters; only one or two who are less
amiable and witty than the others.
Gerald Bullett has done nothing so spacious
and imaginative as Harden Fee (Heinemann ;
7s. 6d. net). The action is confined to a frag-
ment of Sussex a few miles from the Channel.
Here 5000 years ago Ogo, in thrall to his
detested father, loved a girl who was taboo
to him by the tribal laws of kinship and
fled with her to a distant foreign land —
apparently somewhere on the South Coast.
Noke, the eighteenth-century farmer, is as
cruel and tyrannical as Koor, father of Ogo,
and he reacts on similar lines to the dis-
covery that his daughter is in love with one
of his illegitimate sons. Coincidence is
strained rather severely. The axe that Noke's
son wields in his fight with his father and
half-brothers is the identical one that their
common ancestor fashioned on the same spot
fifty centuries earlier; but no reasonable
reader will quarrel seriously with the story
on that score. Amongst other interesting
things “Harden Fee” is an argument for
nineteenth-century education. Some of Ogo’s
eighteenth-century descendants had vocabu-
laries which were little larger than his.
Long Bondage, by Donald Joseph (Elkin
Mathews; 7s. 6d. net), is as beautifully and
sensitively written as the author’s first book,
“October’s Child,” but its plot is basically
romantic and fails to carry conviction. Lucy
Lannerton is a high-spirited intelligent girl
who marries the handsome rake of a
Southern State (U.S.A.) county. When the
mists of illusion roll away she discovers
he is the usual possessive and self-sufficient
male brute, but she bears him two children
and remains a dutiful wife until she learns
that he has been taking girls away with
him on hunting-trips. All her pent-up hatred
of him wells up and she decides to remain
in his house as his gaoler, forgetting that
she thus also becomes her own gaoler, and
that her intellectual superiority has been
as irksome to him as his dulness has been
to her. He is eventually killed, she has
become white-haired but is still beautiful,
and an ideal man turns up who had ten
minutes’ conversation with her 20 years
before and has ever since ardently loved
her at a distance.
Escapade, by Arthur Mills (Collins;
7s. 6d. net), is about Sobong, which is in
such an inaccessible part of Indo-China that
the inhabitants haven’t heard of firearms.
The ruler, Prince Gia, is an old Oxonian of
the traditional Asiatic model; he has a
heart of stone and the suavity of a floor-
walker. He immures the heroine in his
harem, but Peter Hardy’s scientific know-
ledge proves too much for him and his
scoundrelly and idiotic high priest, Thak.
There are some big, though improbable,
moments in this artless fantasy; particu-
larly one in which Peter chloroforms a man-
eating tiger which has been sooled _on to
him by the ecclesiastics of the god Mica.
Tumult in the North (Bodley Head;
7s. 6d. net) has less action than “General
Crack” or “The Rocklitz,” and it is about
England—England during the _ Jacobite
rising which marked the beginning of
George I.’s reign—but it could have
been written by no one but George R.
Preedy. It is a book of almost cloy-
ing sweetness in places. The landscapes
and many of the characters appear in a
lovely glow which etherealises them. Poor
Blanche, the Protestant agent’s daughter,
has fallen in love with the Catholic earl
who employs her father: —<
Blanche passed into the house and ran upstairs
after her sister; an oread she seemed, redolent of the
fragrance of high places, and spangled with the
moisture of the clouds. The girls’ voices, chattering
softly like doves in branches, fell from an upper
window.
Under the spell of such writing you half
forget that country girls of the period didn’t
wear boots which enabled them to run like
oreads; that they were not fragrant, one
bath a. year being the customary allowance
for females even in fashionable circles ; and
that Cumberland voices don’t resemble the
soft chattering of doves. When you come to
the characterisation, though, to the hearts
which beat within these exaggeratedly sen-
suous bodies, it is a different matter. Mr.
Preedy’s men and women are real; the gal-
lant young earl who dies for his convictions,
the dour Captain Shaftoe who begins by
hating and ends by revering him, Blanche,
her sister, their grim mother —it is easy
to see and believe in them all. The theme
is one that never grows old —the barrenness
of revenge—and it is developed with great
skill, A novel in a thousand, in spite of
the- defects which are to be found in all
this emotional writer’s romances.
Ben Bolt is a prolific and ingenious weaver
of adventure plots, and The Forest Ranger
(Ward, Lock and Co.; 7s. 6d.) is well up
to his usual standard. It is about Canada
in the days when Wolfe was fighting for
Quebec. The hero, an English scout, passes
thorough countless perils from flood, fire,
Indians, spies, hidden enemies and rivals, till
at last: —
“Diane!” he cried, a question in his eyes.
“Why, yes,” she whispered back. “Thy son and
mine—he will make this great land which thy
countrymen and my countrymen have won. So”
She made a gesture towards the warships which made
an end of the hopes of France, and shrugged her
shoulders. “What matter? Tout va bien!”
“All’s well indeed!” said John Greville as he
caught her to his arms.
And a Little Verse
BISCUIT.
“Biscuit” is biscuit; it sounds it, it looks it;
It calls up the fellow who pats it and cooks it,
So smart and so French as he handles his
griddle;
The c gives the snap when it cracks in the
middle.
It is smooth at the start with an s and a b,
And gruncliy thereafter with c and with t;
The u is no use when you speak it or
shout it,
But, goodness! what would the word look like
without it?
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALJ.
BECAUSE IT RAINED.
This Sunday afternoon I wrote,
Because it rained, a scampish rime;
When Satan led me by the coat.
And said, “Well done: if ever I'm
Disposed to take a Laureate
Be certain I shall send for you.”
Then, tying, for remembrance sake,
Knots in his tail, away he flew.
But my good angel, standing by,
Spake words of wisdom in mine ear:
“Because it rained, no other why,
You have chastised the Sabbath here;
Nathless, the Sabbath is most sweet
(And you shall find it as I tell) ;
For wicked authors, ’tis decreed,
There is no day of rest in Hell.”
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submittedj
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Shellback: No h0pe....A.J.: “Three for
disappointment.” Also 0ne.... Trepang: Recognised
on sight as an old friend.... Ground F.: You’ll have
to do better than that to walk in “Bellerive’s”
shade... .M.M.: x “Out.” Nothing wrong with the
title... .D.K.N.: “It overcame him to accept. He
did.” An “e” omitted?... .A.0.T.: D 0....
Two S.: Stiff as a boiled shirt... .A.T.E.: Philo-
sophy has something in it, but not enough to carry
lines like “And I think, and I think, and I think.”
. ...R.S.C.: Louisa Anne Meredith’s chief pub-
lications were “Notes and Sketches of New South
Wales” (1844), “My Home in Tasmania” (1852),
“Some of My Bush Friends” (1860), “Over the
Straits” (1861), “Our Island Home” (1879) and
“Tasmanian Friends and Foes” (1880)....
D.G.8.: Superb—speaking calligraphically.... J.P.:
Missed by the breadth of a cheese’s whisker....
R.H.: Goes to pieces in the sestet, but a better
effort than most Clag: Nothing wrong with it,
except that it’s du11.... 1.A.A.: Doing away with
rhyme in that brand of verse is like leaving the
whisky out of the whisky and water.... Plane Leaf:
No; but so good for your age that this column
breaks a pious resolution to tell you you will be
in print before you’re 20,...Gin: Sloppy 8.H.Y.:
Went four rounds before taking the knock....
F.W.H.: Too long for the content.... Pharion: On
an ex-leviathan bookmaker who now conducts a fruit-
shop :
Ne’er shall loud Stentor’s call of Odds be any
More heard, where men pride in the fleeting horse.
Stilled, that great voice; unnoticed, when he, perforce,
Now calls the odds: “Bananas —two a penny!”
... .W.R.McK.: Dying stockmen now have to do
their act a bit better than that. Competition’s keen.
.... 1.R.1.N.: You don’t like Lang ? Strange !....
LA.: Nothing new there, if anything... .J.O’C.:
Reads like watered Brady... .8.K.: Idea attractive
but too late.... Gunner: Would need to ring true,
which the refrains won’t permit... .S.T.: Quite good,
considering that the topic was a waterspout....
W. 0.: Strangely enough, there’s not an amusing line
in “The Slaughterhouse”... .C. 0.: “She loves me
well, well.” You’re gone!.... A. Catt: Misses the
Whittington touch... .J.R.H.: Don’t mind an occa-
sional oldish triolet or even an epic, but serving up
ancient limericks is going too far... .S.U.V.: Broke
the office’s heart... .W.J.W.: Perhaps, but you don’t
quite do it; you drag in unnecessary stuff for the
sake of rhymes... .J.M.P.: Sentiment capital, but
the verse won’t carry it... .D.L.G.: You can’t break
metre like that... .B.B.: Both miss by that little
which is just too much... .Adam’s Apple: Stamp en-
closed; no address?... .A.P.G.: Weeks too late
H.D.S.: On the frail side. .. .A.R.W.: Such questions
have been thrashed out pretty thoroughly, and the
job of producing that Australian literature has been
handed over to Mr. Time.... John H.: “Bellerive”
not only lives, but is at the moment composing a
series of poems on Tasmania... .M. 8.: He has a
fairly long road to travel yet... .E.E.W.: Thanks;
many a grin in it....lrene F.: “Sanity” is the best;
but two “in all the world’s” and a “the world has
ever known” knock it flat... .P.O’L.; But what’s
the use of declaring an open season for politicians'?
So few of us have elephant guns... .Clarion: Thoughts
are better than the treatment... .Bellerive: So happy,
too:
PORPOISES.
When the weather is fine
From a vessel side
’Tis attractive to observe
The porpoises glide.
They frolic in shoals,
The creatures of mirth,
As they cleave thro’ the folds
Of the briny surf.
(Next: Another epic of the deep , entitled
“Yachting.”)
. ...A.M.H.: “The Sweetened Cup” was not to our
taste... .K.S.: Nothing doing in haunted houses these
days... .R.E.R.: Don’t want newchums’ diaries....
H.C.: Sheepstealer turned away N.F.W.: There’s a
story in it, but 8.N.: And is that all that
happened?.... J.P.M.: Going back... .W. 8.8.: Grilled
chops yarn is underdone... .J.L.L.: Dead? Not by
a long way. He has just published a book on Fiji,
which will shortly be reviewed.... J.M.: Rather un-
sophisticated in outlook, though there is a little
music in the treatment S.C.C.: “Annie” on the
juicy side; the others dry... .W.J.McC.: Can’t recall
it. Present one is several yards too long, like most
narrative verses.... H.W.: Does its job of presenting
a picture, but it’s scarcely worth reproducing. ~.
R. J.C.8.: Accept! assurance that it’s a first attempt.
J.C.: “I’ve steeled my soul to the flowers of
fate.” Having accomplished that, you ought to
write better verse.... Henry C.: A depressing picture.
Susie: If you’re really firing at a market your
aim is p00r.... A. de R.: No excitement over the
fact that the Maori ladies adorned themselves with
rata E.E.: Best of yours to date, though a fair
way of! yet... .Efldee Ter: A month or so too late.
....E.M.S. (England): Standards must have risen
since you left.... Sand Plain: Yes, there is im-
provement, but not sufficient.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.G.T.: If that’s a tram no wonder people prefer
travelling by ’bus... .M. 8.: Conversation not worth
recording Choy: No laughs W.M.K.: Glad you
didn’t try to illustrate them L.C.: Can’t judge
from efforts sent. Give her a chance with a good
teacher.... F.C.: Undistinguished... .J.E.S.: Can’t
remember the last one; present sample just so-so.
. ...H.E.P.: Neat sense of decoration; try them
larger... .F.S.: Finer penwork needed in the smaller
details... .P.J.: Not up to standard... .A.R.: They
might score elsewhere... .L.L.: Doleful... .N.E.: Feel
no affection for your boneless monsters.


9
mmm
i
1
I
;; :■ ■■
-f:».
■
■
*qKsfflß—ia
i
y**
I
\
\ ✓
ai
ji
i
«
■
;■,
M ' Hi
:y ■>
m
Wmr-
mm
m
Wm
1
is
I
B
■
m ‘
■
■
!
c/VaAe6 me/eeJu’or.


The Bulletin
Vol. 32.—N0. 2674.
May 13, 1931.
IF INFLATION WERE GENERAL!
MA (to just-married daughter who has accepted attontions from many gentlemen): "Now you've got a husband, Theodora, you must atick to him, my dear."
THEODORA: "But just a little inflation of the currency can't hurt anybody, can it, Ma?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21.' t George Street, Sydney;
Box 252lllB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: lilt-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westiialia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/S.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
WHAT ABOUT THE OTHER
BANKS?
The largest State savings bank in Australia
closed its doors lately. Now the question
of first importance in hundreds of thou-
sands of Australian households is, “What
of other banks? Are they safe?”
There is an inclination to avoid discuss-
ing this question, the idea apparently being
that even the possibility of suspension
ought not to be put into the public’s head.
But the thought is there already, waiting to
burst into a flame of unreasoning action.
If the whole of the facts had been properly
threshed out there might not have been a
run on the N. S. Wales State Savings
Bank. There certainly would not have been
the ridiculous run on the Commonwealth
institution.
The first trouble met in any attempt to
deal with this matter is that many people
think there is something about banking
not to be understood by the average person
—that a bank is a place where miracles of
some sort are performed. It is all rubbish.
A banker is a merchant who deals in money.
He operates under the same natural laws
as a cheesemonger or a vendor of mouse-
traps, and is as strictly governed by those
laws. And it is as easy to grasp the main
principles of banking as it is of cheese-
mongering or selling mousetraps.
The banker borrows money and lends it
again. That is, he buys the use of it, and
sells the use of it. Obviously there are risks
about this, just as there are about cheese-
mongering: the buyer—that is to say, the
borrower —may fail to pay. But actually
the risks of the banking business are extra-
ordinarily small: so small indeed that “The
Country Banker,” the high authority which
was put into the hands of every young teller
of the last generation, declared that no bad
debt ought ever to be made. And it is quite
easy to see why. When the cheesemonger
sends out his pound of Kraft there is no
string tied to it. It goes out and is con-
sumed; and if it is not paid for it cannot
be recovered. The banker, on the other
hand, will not let his goods go from his
warehouse without what he believes .to be
ample security being lodged. If the cheese-
monger’s debtor cannot pay, the cheese-
monger comes in with the mob of creditors
—only to find, in nine cases out of ten, that
the substantial assets are in the hands of
preferential creditors, which generally means
the bank.
The first conclusion which we reach, then,
is that, though there are risks about bank-
ing just as there are about everything else,
by comparison with those of other busi-
nesses they should be almost negligible.
Indeed, it is this difference between banks
and other businesses which provokes most
of the attacks that are made upon the
former—attacks which are avidly taken up
by politicians hungry for limelight.
But even under the most careful manage-
ment, and especially in these days when
public outcries against financial institu-
tions can be so easily worked up, there
are bound to be some bad debts and
losses; what then? Here we reach a very
important difference between Government
banks, including all our savings banks, on
one side, and private trading banks on
the other. There must in all case& be a
guarantee of some kind. The private bank
puts up capital of its owft; the Govern-
ment bank merely puts up a promise of
capital if capital should be needed. What
happened to the State Savings Bank of
N. S. Wales was that when the promised
capital was wanted it was not avail-
able. Such a thing could not happen in
connection with any private trading bank;
in the aggregate these banks in Aus-
tralia have actually put up £37,987,762 of
capital, and in addition have accumulated
£32,366,830 of reserves—a total of over 70
millions among 10 Australian trading banks,
and excluding the Bank of New Zealand.
The deposits of Australian banks (outside
savings banks)total 263 millions, so that for
every £4 of depositors’ money at risk in the
business, they have actually put up or saved
up a guarantee fund of £l. All that the
Savings Bank of N. S. Wales had to support
81 millions of deposits was 2f millions of
assorted reserves and a Government guaran-
tee that w 7 as worth nothing.
But there is another difference between
the N.S.W. Government Savings Bank and
the trading banks. When the Common-
wealth Government was established and
said it was willing to take over all other
savings banks in Australia, the State autho-
rities in N. S. Wales treated the suggestion
with amused scorn. A State bank was far
too good a means of getting Government
loan funds out of thousands of'pockets from
which the politicians knew they could never
rake a farthing except through a savings
bank. So we presently were confronted
with two astonishing facts—(l) Of this
bank’s total assets of 104 millions, no less
than 52 millions were Government stock,
mostly N. S. Wales funded stock and deben-
tures; and (2) of so-called “ready money”
amounting to 17 millions, four millions were
“at banks and Treasury”—mostly Treasury
—and nearly six millions were on fixed
deposit with the same Treasury! Other
savings banks are good supporters of their
Governments; but none was so shamefully
and wickedly bled of its deposits as this one
was. Of its 17 millions of so-called ready
money only seven millions were available-
seven millions against deposits of 81 mil-
lions, or less than 9 per cent. The ratio of
cash to deposits with the trading banks is
nearly 19 per cent.—lB.s6 per cent, to be
exact. And whereas practically all the de-
posits with the N.S.W. Savings Bank were
repayable on demand, only 68 per cent,
of those in the trading banks are so repay-
able; the balance is on deposit for periods
up to two years.
Neither Government savings banks nor
private trading banks in Australia or any-
where else could meet a shock that is
theoretically possible: that is to say, neither
could pay out all the money which
depositors are fully entitled to demand.
But there is no reason why they should.
They could not in fact carry on their busi-
ness if they held themselves thus ready—
any more than a life insurance office could
if it held itself ready to pay out on every
policy issued, notwithstanding that it is
theoretically possible for every person
insured in an office to die to-morrow. If
banks held themselves ready to pay all that
could legally be demanded, obviously they
could not lend out the money except at
call; and in that case they could not allow
more than a minute fraction of interest on
deposits, if any. Therefore, a compromise
has been arrived at: and the practice of both
insurance and banking is based upon the
law of averages, with reserves and other
safeguards. So long as there are only the
average withdrawals, there is perfect safety.
But danger must threaten even the most
absolutely solvent institution if withdrawals
greatly in excess of the average are con-
tinued for so long that the reserves are
consumed.
So in seeking the safety of any bank,
savings or trading, two lines which cross and
recross must be followed: care must be
taken (1) to avoid withdrawals above the
average; (2) to prevent large sums of bor-
rowed money getting into frozen securities.
The State Savings Bank of N. S. Wales
had the bad luck to be struck both ways.
Lang’s wicked repudiation of financial obli-
gations and his failure to meet interest
and principal due to this bank led to a
rush of withdrawals; Theodore’s clumsy
financial proposals joined with Lang’s
wicked financial misdeeds to make the
realisation of securities impossible except at
a loss which the Commissioners could not
face. Fortunately Australia has only one
Lang, and he is N. S. Wales’s own; until
other States can breed his like, Premiers
who are proud of being defaulters and
“scalers,” their institutions cannot fall into
trouble in the same way as the Savings
Bank of N. S. Wales did.
Yet we are bound to say they can fall
into trouble in other ways. We have seen
how vastly important a thing credit is: we
have seen how an absolutely sound bank
may be wrecked by a mere withdrawal of
confidence. Theodore puts forward certain
proposals which he declares are non-
inflationary and so harmless we could give
them to the baby to play with. He may be
right. But the mere fact that tens of thou-
sands of people believe he is wrong is suffi-
cient to cause the mistrust upon which
banking crises are based.
Hitherto a very large section of the Aus-
tralian public has regarded these matters
only from the point of view of the bor-
rower and would-be borrower. Had they
remembered occasionally that they were
depositors, Mr. Lang would not be where
he is, and there would be less grief and
anxiety in a hundred thousand N. S. Wales
homes to-day. And if the depositors in
other States will forget old habits and recog-
nise themselves as capitalists, too, there will
be less danger of N. S. Wales history
repeating itself elsewhere. This calamity
has shown that the small man’s hundred or
two are quite as precious to him, and quite
as worth safeguarding, as the richer man’s
thousands.
THE POWERS OE GOVERNORS.
The considered opinion of an eminent Con-
stitutional lawyer:—
For <>-ood or ill the cumulative effect of a series
of concessions to supposed democratic sentiment is
the accepted dictum that in the exercise of his
“discretion” the Governor is to follow the advice
of his responsible Ministers.
The dictum has the advantage of being sometimes
sound and sometimes rotten, for there are still
residues of real power in Governors, though they
may be rarely exercised.
About the most important of these residues is
the right of the Governor, on his own initiative, to
dissolve Parliament. “On his own initiative” is here
used advisedly, because certain mid-yictorian writers,
including two in the State of Victoria, Sir O. G.
Duffy and W. E. Hearn, echoing some rhetorical
deliverances of Burke and Peel regarding what they
considered ought to be rather than what is, laid
down the bald proposition that the discretion to
dissolve Parliament “can only be exercised on the
advice of his Excellency’s responsible Ministers.”
Quick and Garran, in their book on the Federal
Constitution, adopt this as settled; without comment.
A much, later authority, however, of high standing,
Professor Maitland, of Cambridge, in his book issued
10 years after Quick and Garran’s, delivers judgment
to the contrary without reservation: “The King
[which includes of course a Governor exercising his
prerogative] without breaking the law can dissolve
a Parliament whenever he pleases. Any restraints
there are on this power are not legal restraints.”
In other words, the restraints are moral —a proper
regard for misuse of the power.
The earlier pundits have clearly confused a norm-
ally good practice with a rigid statement of law.
Established practice must always give way in ultra-
normal conditions to what is demanded by circum-
stances, though the law stands as it did.
The Bulletin has advanced as a proper course
for the Governor of N. S. Wales in the present
crisis to deliver his flat to Ministers and their
following in this form: “You are doing things which
the electors never authorised. I require you to go
to them for authority.” But why the reference to
the electors for “authority’’ to do anything, especi-
ally dishonest and dangerous things? That, at best,
suggests only government by delegates. Is not a
serious Governor’s intervention to be justified at the
present time on more essential and graver grounds?
Consider these in the case of the Lang junta: (I)
Their actions, past and contemplated, show them to
be a menace to the State’s .solvency and safety and
to the morale of the people at a perilous time.
(2) By repudiating the State’s obligation to pay its
debts they are guilty of conduct irreconcilable with
elementary morals, or of a declaration of bankruptcy
of the State, or both, and either of these is , fatal
to our credit everywhere. (3) This default imposes
upon the Federal Government and the other States
of the Union a penal and unconstitutional burden.
In my view a similar dissolution of the Federal
Parliament by the Governor-General is proper for
slightly different reasons: (1) That the party in
power has by a combination of unpardonable inaction
and blundering attempts at dangerous remedies
headed the Commonwealth straight for an economic
dead-end and financial chaos; and that despite
repeated warnings from the most competent and un-
biased advisers called into council by Ministers
themselves. (2) That the same party has been guilty
of an act of public dishonor, viz., the reinstatement in
high office of a man under the stigma of a solemn
finding by a Royal Commission of a gross breach of
his trust as a State Minister, to his own personal
financial advantage; and this public scandal is
aggravated by the fact that an action at law is
still pending against him for the recovery by the
State of moneys alleged to have been illicitly re-
ceived by him, and therefore legally money received
to the use of the State he was supposed to serve.
The point in both cases is that the sense of
fundamental public morality has been outraged by
those entrusted with great power, and that we cannot
afford to tolerate that menace a moment longer than
necessary.
Do Sir Isaac Tsaacs and Sir Philip Game need
to look for more cogent reasons to dissolve dangerous,
incompetent and dishonorable Parliaments?
THE NEW PARTY.
On any one broad question you may get
men to divide themselves into two bodies;
but bring in a second question, and it is an
English pound to a Lang promise that the
division, if honest, will not be the same
as it was on the first. The curse of political
parties is that they compel their followers
to all vote alike on almost everything under
the sun, with the result that in nine cases
out of ten the vote is more or less dis-
honest, men declax-ing either against their
convictions or without troubling to have
any. Thus we make a scoff of democratic
government and popular rule. Only a few
weeks ago in the National Parliament a
measure was passed which was soon found
to be unworkable and was abandoned.
What had happened was that a small group
within the Labor party were interested,
financially or otherwise, got enough support
to command a Caucus majority and had
the thing put through without one-third of
those who voted troubling to have any real
opinion on the subject at all. On the
Opposition side there is an almost continu-
ous vote cast against the Government’s
measures; and that calls for no more honest
consideration than a blind vote in their
favor.
This curse is at the bottom of most of the
trouble which is being experienced in get-
ting together all those who are opposed
both to the rank Sovietism of the Garden-
Lang Government and to the Communistic
tendencies of other Governments. It is
impossible to get all these people to agree
upon a dozen things: it would be absurd to
expect it. Among them are people as unlike
as Bruce and Lyons; Archdale Parkhill, the
very personification of the political machine,
and the hitherto entirely unpolitical rank
and file of Gibson’s All for Australia League,
But while you could not get these men to
all think alike upon a dozen great subjects,
you can get them to think alike upon one
great subject; and one great subject is quite
enough to deal with properly at a time.
So long as we can get a majority in Parlia-
ment to think alike on the subject of main-
taining our national honor, by making an
honest attempt to pay our debts, and so
long as they will vote right on that matter,
we can afford to let them speak and vote
as they like about 500 other matters. At
the most we can get only a dishonest pre-
tence of agreement on those 500 matters;
and it is far better to have honest opinions,
even though they are not our own, than dis-
honest opinions which happen to agree with
our own.
There still remains the question whether
there should be one party or an amalga-
mation of parties to oppose the menace of
Sovietism. The Nationalists of Sydney, for
example, .want to maintain their existence
and. their identity, and so does the Country
party almost everywhere. There is no
reason why they should not do so. But
they should be only propagandist parties
for the present. If they are not, if they
insist upon coming into this fray as Nation-
alist and Country parties, how do they think
it possible to capture anti-Nationalist and
anti-Country party votes? Yet that is the
whole purpose of this campaign against
Communism, Everybody knows that there
are great numbers of working men and
women who believe that Communism, with
its disregard for the moralities and its war
upon religion, is a hateful thing. But they
will not come over to an avowedly anti-
Labor party like the Nationalist party nor
to a new party of which that old party is a
segment—and probably the commanding
segment.
In this matter as in many others of tac-
tics all the old non-Labor parties can learn
much from the Communists. To-day the
Government of N. S. Wales is almost pure
Bolshevik; and the Bolshevik influence at
Canberra was and is so strong that it com-
pelled the Federal Government to abandon
the Niemeyer plan and all pretence of
balancing our budgets. Yet the Com-
munists have never been a section of the
Labor party. On the contrary, they have
taken all sorts of care to give the public
the impression that they stand right outside
the Labor party and are to some extent the
Labor party’s enemy. In pursuance of that
policy they have run Communist candidates
wherever there seemed a good chance for
the propagandist. That policy had two
results: first, it convinced thousands of anti-
Communists that the Labor party was not.
Communist and that it was therefore quite
safe to vote for it; second, it got regular.
Labor voters used to Communist arguments
so that they no longer shied at Communist
propositions.
There is no reason why the Nationalists
or the Country party or any other party
should go into recess because another great
party is formed to meet a national need.
The aim of the new party is to get support
from every existing organisation; and to
announce the new party as a mere merger
of old ones of a certain color will be a fatal
mistake. The work of the old parties will
be to do the same propagandist work for
individualism or whatever their fancy may
be as the Communists have done for Soviet-
ism. If they are a quarter as successful,
all things considered, or a quarter as self-
sacrificing, they may reckon they have done
marvellously well.
RUNNING DOWN THE WHANGPOO.
“A deadlock has occurred in the negotiations
between the British Minister and the Chinese Govern-
ment. over the question of excluding foreigners from
the jurisdiction of Chinese Courts. The Chinese
insist upon Europeans being held amenable to local
courts, which they declare are now quite capable
of understanding and impartially dealing with matters
to which Europeans are parties.” —Cable from Pekin.
I started out for Ningpo in the more or
less palatial Poh An, Captain Stroke com-
mander. Stroke was an Australian, whose
ship was owned by the Chingchow
Merchants, a native concern which runs a
fleet of 32 vessels of various tonnages and
in different stages of decomposition, trading
in Chinese waters. The first-class saloon
fare was 20s. The Chinese saloon below
was 25.; and all the decks, the paddle-
wheel boxes, every nook and cranny except
those reserved for the first class, were
crammed with a living freight which trav-
elled at sd.
As we ran down the Whangpoo in a fog,
Captain Stroke glared around at his passen-
gers with frank disapprobation and swore
blasphemously. He would sooner be back
in his old trade of transporting pigs be-
tween Bali and Java. Pigs and Chinamen
both belonged to the animal creation, but
the advantage of pigs was that they had no
rights as against an officer of the British
mercantile marine. The imminence of a
collision between the Poh An and a junk
with five masts and apparently no rudder
prevented Captain Stroke explaining this
cryptic utterance.
Captain Stroke swore with slow, painful
deliberation. Something more, I felt, than
present circumstances caused that display of
poignant feeling. Presently he began to
tell me. A few years ago he had had one
of the two crack ships of the company. Not
far from here he had struck a fog as dense
as this and about the same time, too. They
had between 800 and 900 —well, souls aboard.
They were rammed while at anchor. The
bow of the other vessel emerged, like
murderer’s hand, from behind the curtain
of fog, and withdrew again, leaving them
sinking. There were, of course, not enough
boats to go round—not by a long chalk; and,
equally of course, the captain must be the
last to leave. It was to have been his
last trip, too. He was going to pick up his
wife and kids in Ningpo and retire to an
orchard in South Australia.
Nothing could be done. The ship was an
inferno, and his half-caste officers and
the boats had vanished. After an attempt
to restore order he had returned to the
bridge and was leaning over the rail. Un-
consciously he became interested in a
domestic drama. A big brutal-looking coolie
was standing on the for’ard cargo doors
antiquated affairs on hinges—trying to sepa-
rate a woman with bound feet from a box
that no doubt contained all her possessions,
while a child clutched at hPr dress, howling
piteously. Captain Stroke forgot the irony
of Fate and all the rest of it. He rushed
down to the deck and flung himself into the
argument. He was in the middle of an ora-
tion in pidgin English when he felt himself
being hurtled upward® and outwards. Ine
compressed air below decks had burst the


ALWAYS THE OTHER FELLOW.
"Mr. Lang continues to blame the Opposition for the collapse of the N.S.W. State Savings Bank.”
MA STATE: “At my jam! You wait till I get you, my boy!”
BOY JACK: “It’s not me, Mum—it’s HIM!”
cargo doors, and was throwing the coolie,
the box, the child, the distressed woman
and her defender clear over the side, like
=hots from a catapult.
He came to the surface in a circle of
opaque darkness. He could hear people
drowning all round him. Presently a piece
of timber bumped against him and he clung
to it. He lay like this in the warm water
for some time, thinking of nothing. Then
suddenly he saw his ship again. She loomed
up through the fog quite close, and he left
his support and swam towards her. Willing
hands dragged him up the rope ladder.
Then he made the discovery that it was not
his' own command but the sister ship—in
fact, the one that had rammed him.
At the Marine Board inquiry he told his
story quite simply, never doubting that
anybody disbelieved it. Then counsel for
the Chinese Government got up. He was
a young man with a pale oval face, large
American spectacles and hands like a
woman’s. He had been a leading Nation-
alist agitator. With cold scorn he asked
the Court whether any intelligent person
could be expected to accept that story? The
time was past when Englishmen could arro-
gate to themselves all the manly virtues.;-
Trusting to the alleged traditions of the i
British mercantile marine the Chinese
owners had given a command to a foreigner.
In fact, until lately they had been com-
pelled by law to do so. And what had
happened? Upwards of 450 innocent
Chinese citizens had perished, while the
captain—the one man charged with the
security of all those innocent souls—had
returned to port aboard another vessel with
no other explanation of how he got there
but this cock-and-bull tale!
Outside the courthouse Captain Stroke
had with difficulty kept his hands off the
Chinese lawyer. He had been allowed to
retain his ticket, and in a sort of frenzy
hc.d remained on the China coast, with
some dim idea that an opportunity would
some day come of re-establishing his pres-
tige, which, in his incurably idealistic mind,
he linked with the prestige of the white
race.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gibson for Prime Minister!
The proceedings at Canberra last week
were enough to make people despair of this
Australian Parliament. But not of Aus-
tralia. Australia is facing its troubles with
the courage it has never failed to show
when things have been going badly. With
300,000 persons out of work, with the wheat-
farmers left high and dry by the fools who
promised them 45., 6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d. a
bushel for their wheat, with the N.S.W.
Government Savings Bank closed—dis-
honesty leading to calamity—the temper
of the people is admirable. Communist
plotters move among bands of workless
men, many of them returned soldiers, but
no attempt has been made on the life of
any person in. authority, from the highest
to the humblest, though there have been
many heartrending cases of self-destruction.
Those whose strong sense of duty takes
them into the homes and rude shelters
of the unemployed report noble stories of
mateship, beautiful examples of parents
sacrificing themselves for their children.
But these politicians, these politicians!
Courage, so common among the people, is
so rare among the Parliamentarians that
Mr. Lyons made a national reputation
merely by standing firm and going on with
a loan when the Left Wing of his party
was indulging in default and repudiation
talk. Leaving the Ministry—as he had every
justification for doing—when Mr. Theodore
was restored to the Treasury, he was
invited by the All for Australia Leaguers
to become their leader. Presently, like Mr.
Hughes and Mr. Holman in other days, this
man without a party or a war chest found
himself at the head of his recent opponents,
to whom were added his own few Parlia-
mentary followers—except Mr. Gabb, the
only striking character among them.
Great hopes were reposed in Mr. Lyons j
j when he made his first appearance in the
House of Reps, as chief of the United Aus- ;
tralian party, as it has decided to call itself.
The young men of the A.F.A. League looked
for a declaration against machine politics ’
and in favor of the goodwill and Parlia-
mentary co-partnership which they have
been preaching. Moderate Labor men
expected a generous reference to the party
in which Mr. Lyons was a figure for 22
years, and to the difficulties of the Govern-
ment of which he was a member till three
months ago—difficulties enormously in-
creased by the Lang Government’s “default
and be damned” policy and the Savings Bank
smash, its sequel. Both sections were dis-
appointed. Mr. Lyons’s introduction of him-
self as leader was the prelude to a no-
confidence motion, which provoked the
drearily-familiar explosion of bad temper
and bad language. His speech was such as
might have been delivered by any squeaking
Labor rat; and when the tumult was stilled
sufficiently to permit of exchanges, he had
decidedly the worse of them. He is no
match for his old chief in debate. XL
This won’t do—it won’t do at all! If
the only result of Mr. Lyons’s elevation
is to give # a distracted Parliament a new
feud and start another outbreak of hostili-
ties, Mr. Lyons’s elevation is a misfortune
Tor nearly everybody except Mr. Lyons.
In fateful hours for their country, the
Greeks twice made the Governor of the
Bank of Greece their Prime Minister, and
a very useful Prime Minister he proved.
Perhaps the wisest thing Australia could do
would be to place Robert Gibson at the
head of a Ministry of AH the Talents (if
any) for the balance of the present Parlia-
ment’s term. Robert Gibson belongs to no
party, and is ignorant of the tricks of the
politician’s trade, but these are among his
qualifications for an emergency Prime
Ministership. Moreover, the man knows
what Australia needs and possesses courage
and character, and the people trust him as
they trust no professional politician—not
one. Some member of the deceased Aus-
tralian party—Marks, for example—could
do the country a service by offering to
make way for Robert Gibson without
waiting for the inevitable.
■ ♦
Nine Months’ Trade Figures.
The position is much better than it was
even a year back; but we still have a long
way to go. Sticking to merchandise only
(for figures which include export of hoarded
gold are utterly misleading), we get these
preliminary results:—
Nine Months’ Trade.
1929-30. 1930-31.
Exports .. .. ..£74,171,865 £68,023,908
Imports 106,940,126 51,144,727
Surplus Exports .. - £16,879,181
Excess Imports . . £32,768,261
That looks good, and is good, though not
quite as good as it looks.
Two adjustments have to be made. First,
there is the genuine current production of
gold to be added to the exports. This
may be reckoned at £lOO,OOO per month
last year, and at £120,000 per month this
current year. This gives for the 1929-30
period an excess of imports of £31,868,261, and
a surplus of exports this year of £17,959,181.
But while imports are stated in English
pounds, exports are stated in Australian
pounds. Now, the £ Australian has varied
in value during the financial year from
18s. 9d. (English) at the beginning to 15s.
3d. (English) at the end. On the average
over the whole nine months it has cost
£ll4 ss. Australian money to pay £lOO in
London. Professor Giblin, the acting Gov-
ernment Statist, estimates that, expressed
in Australian currency, the nine-months’
imports would probably have to be lifted
from 51 to 56 millions. On the figures
available The Bulletin believes this
estimate to be too low; remembering that
much higher than the official rates of ex-
change have been paid, and that payment
for considerable imports was deferred and
is now being made at high rates, these
imports probably cost Australia 58 millions.
So with adjustments we get these figures:
Surplus merchandise exports . . . . £16,879,181
Current gold exports 1,080,000
Total £17,959,181
Less probable effect of exchange rates on
value of imports 6,750,000
True excess of exports (9 months) ..£11,209,181
This £11,209,181 is available for meeting
our foreign interest bill of 27 millions. But
expressed in Australian currency this means
now about 36 millions. On the average for
the whole year, the exchange additions
(assuming a continuance of the present rate)
will require £126 10s. per £lOO of interest
debt; so that the 27 millions of foreign
interest will call for a total of about 34
millions of Australian money this year.
Assuming that trade figures for • the
balance of the year will not show much
change from the average of the nine months,
the excess of exports for the 12 months will
be approximately 15 millions—ls millions
towards the 34 millions we must pay. That
is to say, on the full year our trade
promises to be 19 millions short of paying
our interest bill. Or, putting it another
way, after paying our interest we are going
into debt for imported goods to the extent
of 19 millions a year.
It is still shocking. But when we realise
that in 1926-27 our recorded excess of
imports was 19? millions, and for only the
first six months of 1929-30 it was over 16
millions, we can get some comfort from the
reflection that we have at least crawled back
some distance towards sanity.
4
The Shipment of Gold.
Robert Gibson, chairman of the Common-
wealth Bank, gave the Senate the expected
answers to its questions. The shipment of
our small reserve of gold to pay debts in
London would, he was afraid, have serious
psychological effects; yet he would rather
see the gold shipped than default. Asked
whether there was any other alternative,
he answered decisively that there was, but
that it wasn’t his business to name it. One
other question he might have been asked
but wasn’t. This money is due at the end
of June. Could the alternative be put into
effect in time to save both the shipment of
gold and default?
However, since it is perfectly well known
what the alternative is, we can answer the
question ourselves. Indeed, we have been
answering it for 15 months: Niemeyer
answered it; the conference of economists
answered it; the under-secretaries to the
Treasuries answered it. The alternative is
simply that we make a serious attempt to
pay our way. At present we are falling
short by about 24 millions a year. Next
year the figures may be expected to be
worse.
But what we have got particularly to
realise is that the Commonwealth has two
deficits, and not merely one. We have to
pay about 36 millions a year overseas in
excess of whatever our imports cost: this
36 millions is interest plus exchange. We
are nowhere near that figure: we are at
least 17 millions short. That is, we must
borrow at least 17 millions of gold in
London a year to pay our foreign debts
until our trade figures improve. No amount
of extra taxation will do any good there:
we collect our taxes in paper, and paper
only pays local debt. That is deficit
No. I—a deficit in Australia’s trading
account with the world. Deficit No. 2
is in our Government accounts, as dis-
tinguished from this trading account with
the world. These Government accounts
show, as we have said, probable deficits
this year of 24 millions; and that amount
will have to be borrowed. No Government,
(Continued on page 17.)


After all theres only one‘Australia* j
mi
□
""T'jTg.i.iftm
3f\ y&ltxzr%
Kcm
££ ..
as
-
' •■■ • ■ i
Sydney's Centre
Reduced (( Room only” Rates
Single Room from 12/- per day
Double Room from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath and
Toilet .. • from 21/- per day
Double Room with Private Bath
and Toilet from 30/- per day
Suites with Private Bath and Toilet from 40/- per day
Breakfast Light Luncheon
2/- and 3/6. And ft la carte. in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Luncheon and Dinner u.
ft la carte in G rill Room, minimum 4/-; ft la carte in Dining Hall, minimum »/■
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
TMustralia
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
POLITICAH
POINTS
It is to be hoped that the Commonwealth
Bank, acting as liquidator for the N.S.W.
State Savings Bank, will issue as soon as
possible a rough preliminary estimate of
the assets and liabilities, and how much
in the £ the former represent. The assets
should not include the value of the State
guarantee, which is embodied in an Act of
Parliament and so may be repealed by any
Government which can control both Houses,
but it might include an estimate of the
value of the book debt owing by the Lang
Government, and it should certainly include
a statement of the amount of cash in the
Savings Bank and all its branches when it
closed. It is said that busy little cormorants
are already buying up deposits or lending
money on them at as much as 12 per cent.
The depositor who wants to realise, or to die,
or to compound with his creditors should
have, at the earliest possible moment, some
idea, however sketchy, as to how he stands.
Lang didn’t win any praise in N’York for
picking out Uncle Sam for preferential treat-
ment. The “Sun” of Samuel’s big city calls
him contemptuously a “Little Australian,”
who “talks and acts as though Australia
could stand alone,” whereas in fact his poor,
backward, handicapped country can’t even
“turn out a complete automobile.” But, since
Lang is obviously out to ruin what few indus-
tries the country has, the “Sun” expects
that within a few weeks “the people of Aus-
tralia will find a way of taking his wrecking
implements aw r ay from him.”
A talkie “palace” is offering a champion-
ship prize to the owner of N.S.W.’s most
faithful dog. Tile Bulletin is entering Mr.
J. T. Lang’s well-known spaniel, Labor Party.
The too-faithful dairy.
When the Auburn land-agent first led this
dog about it was fat and prosperous-look-
ing ; to-day it is half-starved and ragged and
utterly miserable, and its hindquarters have
a constant quarrel with the forequarters, and
the tail is always trying to break away from
the head. But still the tail wags when its
owner promises it another million bones, or
words to that effect; which seems pretty good
evidence that Mr. Lang’s spaniel is either the
most faithful dog in N. S. Wales or the
biggest fool.
It’s just as well for Lyons that he didn’t
decide to stay Labor and stand for Wilmot
again. With the Labor vote at the peak
his majority over Lou Atkinson in 1929 was
only 1159 in an effective poll of 20,235.
State voting for Wilmot on Saturday, same
boundaries, shows an anti-Labor majority of
5000-odd.
With his Government Savings Bank still
Closed Until Further Notice, Lang and his
bodyguard are off to Queensland to enlighten
the benighted inhabitants of that State —
Queensland, in which the savings banks are
still open for business, the proportion of
unionists out of work is only half the
N.S.W. proportion (though the unemploy-
ment tax on wages is a fourth of Lang’s)
and there is still unexpended loan money for
use in an emergency. The incapacity of the
Lang gang is only equalled bv its cheek.
The trade returns published on Saturday
show that the Commonwealth has contrived
for the last few months to have a pretty
solid surplus of exports over imports, but
the bill for interest on overseas debts, the
result of years of jamboree, is so large that
only in an occasional month is the surplus
large enough. Australia needs to make still
more of the cloth and machinery and sundries
that it needs, and to buy still less abroad,
before things are right. Many Freetraders
and other fools say that the
necessity is to make revenue
equal expenditure (expendi-
ture including interest on
the bygone jamboree) and
all will be well. That
would be correct if Australia
were Britain, or if it were
the Australia of other days,
and the revenue consisted of
gold or its equivalent, but
now the revenue is irre-
deemable paper, while too
many of the liabilities are
foreign ones payable in gold
or its equivalent.
Pearce, who entered (Com-
monwealth politics as a
Labor Freetrader and turn-
ed' Nat. Protectionist with
Hughes, becoming an anti-
Hughes Nat.-Coeky revenue-
tariffist under Bruce and
Page, is to lead for the
United Australia party in
the Senate. People are
pining to know how mauy
old party hacks are to be
inflicted on Australia again
(supposing Australia is will-
ing to suffer them again) by
virtue of Lyons’s arrange-
ments with the Nat. Federa-
tion and the All for Aus-
tralia League. In the situa-
tion which they did so much to bring about
these dull votecatchers and timeservers are
of no more use to the country than bags of
sawdust. Less, in fact, for sawdust isn’t
provocative,
Australia has two separate problems on
hand where Britain, or any country like it,
could only have one. If every Treasurer in
Australia had a million of surplus (which
is a mad idea, as they would spend it in
advance) it would be only paper, and if
imports and overseas interest far exceeded
exports bankruptcy abroad would come just
the same. When £1 of gold is due to a
creditor abroad £1 of irredeemable paper
here is just as serviceable as lib. of irre-
deemable butter.
The offer of Maoriland Priminister Forbes
to co-operate in the formation of a National
Government has been turned down by Oppo-
sition-leader Coates. Had it been presented
as an emergency expedient, and confined to
the Reformers, excluding Independents, it
probably would have been accepted. In any
case Forbes has been assured of Reform sup-
port for his policy of retrenchment and
economy, and Coates suggests that a com-
mittee from his party should confer Vith
Cabinet concerning proposed legislation.
According to a ruling just issued John
Longstaff is a manufacturer, and must regis-
ter as such; when he sells a painting he
must pay sales tax. This opens up large
prospects. The surgeon is an obvious
cobbler; and the physician merely does a
job of reconditioning. The parson paints
a picture in words; and Isaac McShortodds,
who makes a book, lines up along with the
painter and the surgeon and the parson. It
may be that the politician will have to be
excluded, though on past experience he can
be trusted to at least make a mess of it.
Agent-General Willis arrived in New York
on a Monday and resumed his journey to
London on Wednesday, so he had all Tues-
day to clear up the fog of suspicion. Accord-
“It is a good thing that we cannot raise money
here at present, because we do not want to make
loans at this juncture.” — N.S.W. Agent-General Willis
in New York.
WILLI S: “Thank Heavens, my credit is still
unimpaired.”
ing to his cabled statement N. S. Wales
hadn’t said that it wouldn’t pay, but that
it couldn’t pay. If N. S. Wales hasn’t a
rotten and ignorant and unprincipled State
Government, but rather a high-class affair
worthy to be represented by a Willis, then
its inability to meet its interest bill when
MEMORIES.
“When Mr. Lyons introduced himself as leader of the United
party and went on to propose a no-confidence motion, he had to
face a fierce and sustained barrage of interjections.”
Jucook
Holman
llughes
"Just, like old times. isn't it,
Willy,
Billy,
Joe?”
due, while every other State contrives to pay
up somehow, means that it is a miserable
and "blighted spot and no security for even
a moderate loan. It really isn’t worth while
to blast the name of N. S. Wales just to
buy whitewash for Lang.
The Vic. Hogans’ programme for the ses-
sion contains nothing new. Even the Pro-
fiteering Prevention Bill had been antici-
pated by a recent announcement. There will
be a frosty reception for that measure in the
Uppish House, if it gets that far, and the
grouping of struggling farmers, home-buyers
and unemployed tenants of town dwellings
in one Moratorium Bill will also arouse
objection. Nor will there be any enthusiasm
about unemployment taxes if the dole por-
tion for every six months is to be £540,000,
as it will be for the current half-year. The
other legislation proposed is such as any Nat.
Government might introduce.
If the “rules and platform” of the first
Labor Electoral League in N. S. Wales
were still in force, Lang might be right,
but some of his colleagues would be wrong.
“All candidates,” it was laid down, “shall
given a written pledge to resign on being
called upon to do so by a two-thirds majo-
rity of the voters.” It was on this platform
that the first great wave of Labor men came
into the Assembly; but it is not on record
that any member ever had to answer the
recall.
Tom Tunnecliffe, while acting as Premier
Hogan’s substitute, marched in the proces-
sion from the Trades Hall to Yarra Bank
to celebrate May Day. He claims to be
consistent; he used to parade annually as
a private M.L.A.' It was the only matter in
which he embarrassed Hogan during that
potentate’s absence. Tunnecliffe did not itch
to change things and spread himself, like
some Acting-Premiers Vic. has known.
The Sydney Trammies were the first union
to adopt the Lang “plan” of default. At
the same meeting they decided to prosecute
all unfinancial members “with the utmost
rigor of the law.”
Slang has produced a Transport Bill
which shows a pathetic clinging to the belief
that miracles can be worked by legislation.
To put the State transport services under a
board of Slang nominees—one of the four
is to represent the employees—won’t help
them to hold their own against competing
-services which have the advantage of much
lower capital cost and are managed on busi-
ness lines. _ Prohibition of motor competi-
tion, which is to be the first line of defence
is a policy that must inevit-
ably kill itself. The world moves too rapidly
for politicians to catch it and hold it.
Negotiations for the abolition of extra-
territoriality in China have fallen through.
Ihe chief objector was Japan. Fifty years
ago Japan was in the position that China is
in to-day. It decided that the chief slur on its
fame was not that foreigners would not sub-
mit to its laws, but that its laws were, such
as no self-respecting foreigner could submit
to. Ihe Japanese proceeded to reform their
laws. The Chinese want to reverse the process.
Among the crack-brained proposals that
excite N. S. Wales is one concerning the
seizure of empty housed for the accommoda-
tion of the unemployed. The Government is
to pay portion of the rates, the rest being
a burden on the rentless owner, and is to
recompense said owner for damage done,
provided it cares to admit that any damage
exists. A question arises how long a house
must be empty before it will become quaff-
fied for seizure. It would be awkward if the
family went out in the morning, and returned
at night to find the unemployed in posses-
sion. Another problem is whether the unem-
ployed will come to stay for life whether
they get jobs or not, it being assumed that
a house, once officially unoccupied, is offici-
ally vacant, though filled with non-paying
tenants, till it falls to pieces. It is to be
hoped no special inclination may be shown,
or suspected, towards crowding the unem-
ployed into empty homes in localities where
Labor voters are specially needed.
The long-awaited Nicmeyer report on
Maoriland’s banking system has reached
Wellington and is being considered by Cabi-
net. Details are not divulged, save that the
establishment of a central bank (with, pre-
sumably, the sole right of note issue) Is recom-
mended. At present every bank chartered
in the Dominion may issue notes, paying a
44 per cent, tax, and the country’s paper
currency presents a kaleidoscopic array of
colors and designs. The note issue must
have a ceiit.-per-cent. backing of “coin, bul-
lion and public securities” ; actually, tin;
coin and bullion holdings of the banks alone
have for many years exceeded the face value
of notes in circulation.
“Toiler”: This Government advt. appeared
on my pay envelopes till recently:—
Deposit a portion of this pay in the Government
Savings Bank of N.S.W, and you will be surprised
at the result.
Yet there are liars who say the Lang
Government doesn’t keep its promises to
the workers !
In pursuit of the great plan of collecting
sales tax from artists (writers are to have
their turn presently) the Taxation Depart-
ment has served a demand on every painter
and etcher it can learn the name of to supply
a return of his commercial activities. The
case of one of Melbourne’s finest nainters is
typical of all but a tiny minority of the
rest. During the financial year he has sold
one picture for 25 guineas. He allows him-
self ten shillings a week for food and cooks
it over a gas-ring. He has no money to buy
canvases, so in order to continue his craft
he is obliged to scrape off a work that might
some day have been regarded as a master-
piece and go over the same ground again
with a different subject. It is a quaint
commentary on the cultural standards of our
politicians and taxgatherers.
The N.S.W. Government’s bill to put the
press in its place and stop it from calling
Lang a gentleman recalls Governor Darling’s
bills 100-odd years ago. Darling in his effort
to put a little more hell into the bad old
convict system got up against Dr. Wardell
and E. S. Hall, and would have provided
transportation for their offence if the Chief
Justice (who had to certify to proposed
laws) had let him. But, as usual, the'
Choking the Press—as Phil May saw it.
wretched editors had the last word; their
presses were still running merrily when
Darling threw his last scowl at Sydney and
withdrew to England, where he spent most
of his days replying to attacks and “pre-
paring his defence before a select committee
of the House of Commons appointed in 1835
to investigate charges of misgovernment
made against him.” Phil May had two
drawings of him in The Bulletin’s “His-
tory of Botany Bay”; this one he called
“News versus Noose.”
The old Labor politicians were a tough
lot. Just on 30 years ago the since-defunct
Sydney “Sunday Times” ran a “Best
Labor Ministry” Competition, in which the
places were filled by Black, Cook, McGowen,
Schey, Holman, Rae, Watson, Cotton, Cann
and Bavister. Seven of the ten are still living,
though, apart from Black, now a nominee
N.S.WI M.L.C., the only one of them in
Parliament is Arthur Rae, the frankly Com-
munist Senator.
Disney, who has sat for 15 years in Vic.
Upper House without opposition at election-
time, had no difficulty in winning the Labor
pre-selection ballot for Melbourne West, and
should just as easily hold the seat. Disney
is not one of the party’s shining lights, but
between 1924 and 1928 he was twice an
Honorary Minister.


SOCIETU
and it's
printed with
WIMBLES INKS
“P.X.”: The hardest case I know of result-
ing from the Sydney Savings Bank crash is
that of my friend Jelkins and liis wife and
daughter. Ever since Mrs. Jelkins assured
Jelkins that there would be no more little
Jelkinses to provide for, Jelkins has been
putting by something every week for the
Great Event: 10s. a week it was at one time,
though of late years they couldn’t manage
more than eight. Ten years ago at least
Jelkins began collecting itineraries and
travel books, and there was a whole shelf of
them by 1926. Three years back, when travel
still had no more than its normal difficulties,
actual preparations for the tour were begun.
Later on there were almost nightly discus-
THE OPTIMIST.
“Hurry up, Daddy—l want change for a pound.”
“All right, all right. Where’s the pound?”
“Oh, I’m going to win it at the bridge party this afternoon.”
sions as to whether, in view of all this
trouble about exchange—to which mystery
Mrs. and Miss Jelkins were introduced for
the first time, whereupon they unanimously
declared they never heard of such cheek! —
to resume, there were almost nightly confer-
ences as to whether the great project could
be carried through. Finally it was decided
that, with economy, it could; and Jelkins,
proud man, brought home the tickets. They
would be a bit late, but they would be
“home” in June, and June, Jelkins remem-
bered, can be as beautiful as May. And
Miss Jelkins had finished making the very
last beret, and the vest of Jelkins’s dinner-
suit had been let out another inch or so,
when the crash came. The odds and ends of
Jelkins’s little investments had all been
gathered together and placed in the Savings
Bank for safe custody; and now an afflicted
family has three boat tickets and a let-out
vest and a beautiful assortment of berets and
three trunks of miscellaneous busted hopes.
* * * *
“Lizard Passage”: The sinking of the hull
of the old A.U.S.N. coaster Wodonga off
Sydney Heads brought back memories to
many old ’uns, for it is 40 years or more
since she, with the Arawatta and Aramac,
began the Melbourne-
to - Cooktown run
they maintained so
unfalteringly. As one
who made many
trips up the Queens-
land coast in each of
chcm, writer recalls
the exquisite bliss
afforded by the fact
that the dining-
saloon extended the
entire width of the
ship, the cabins be-
ing separate and dis-
tinct. In their pre-
decessors these ran
down each side of
the saloon, a thin
wooden partition
separating occupants
from passengers at
meals. The agon-
ised yowls and
groans of sufferers
from mal de mer
were calculated to
put the hardiest sea-
farer off his feed,
and there was a
brooding suspicion
that the owners en-
couraged the system
from motives of
economy.
* *
“Feng-Shui”: The
million fresh stom-
achs which Japan
adds to her popula-
tion annually are
better fed than they
used to be. The
average weight of
children of 12 has
increased greatly
since 1900, and the
increase in height is
even more striking.
Thirty years ago
boys of 12 averaged
4ft. 3.3 in. and girls
of that age a frac-
tion more; last year the figures were
4ft. 4.Bin. and 4ft. s.lin. respectively.
Sitting on chairs instead of mats, better
food and athletics are given as the
principal reasons. Amongst schemes for
counteracting this additional pressure on
Nippon’s margin of subsistence is that of a
Labor leader who has asked for a perpetual
lease of some of the mandated islands near
New Guinea. The applicant is a rich man
who has established several working-men’s
colonies in Japan on communal principles.
He proposes to make the project self-support-
ing by growing sugar.
“Lord Luvus”: Victorian radio-owners
had the pleasure of listening to an entire
programme of Levitzki broadcast from Mel-
bourne Town Hall, and they also had the
privilege of hearing what may have been
the first really sincere final-curtain speech
ever delivered by a visiting artist. After
the pianist’s last encore the studio intimated
that Mischa would say a few words into the
microphone. Something went wrong, and
the announcer was heard remarking that the
eminent virtuoso had left the platform but
that they would switch over to his dressing-
room. The next thing listeners heard was
an American voice saying: “Oh gosh! Give
me a biscuit or something. I haven’t had a
bite all day. I ate something that dis-
agreed with me at dinner and I spent
all night in the bathroom!” Then the
ethereal curtain rapidly descended. Levitzki
has a pronounced Yankee accent.
* * * *
“Wm. Piecrust”; Andy Lysaght’s bill to
curb the newspapers of N. S. Wales, so that
they shall not defame public men nor dis-
credit public institutions without going to
gaol for it, recalls Ralph Darling, the stupid-
est and most unpopular of all early-day Gov-
ernors of N. S. Wales. He got a bill through
A COMPLETE DEFENCE.
“Sorry, Madam, strict orders to prosecute all owners of dogs not on leash.”
“But I only brought Tootles to protect me from sharks. He is so savage when anyone
touches me.”
his Council “for preventing the mischiefs
arising from the printing and publishing of
newspapers” —two bills, in fact. But in
those days the Chief Justice had to certify
to the legality of a measure, and Forbes
kicked against certifying to the second bill.
However, Darling had another shot left in
his locker: he put up a friend to propose
a tax of a shilling a copy on every news-
paper printed. That might be a tip for
Lang, only for two things—one of them that
Darling was practically chucked out of his
job soon afterwards, and, in the words of the
historian of the period, “bonfires bl.azed along
the shores of the harbor as the ship sailed
away.”
:S H= =i=
“Caycross”: An expedition which has
caused some amusement in Darlinghurst
was undertaken the other day by the owners
of a large private hotel in Flatland, accom-
panied by representatives of a Neon sign
company, to the top of the north pylon of
the Harbor Bridge, the party being person-
ally conducted by an engineer. The Neon
company had contracted to erect a large sign
on the roof of the hotel, and one of the
conditions was that it must be visible from
the north pylon; hence the precautionary
journey. It doesn’t seem to have occurred
to anyone that if the sign was visible
from the pylon, the pylon would be visible
from the sign, and that all that was really
necessary was for the interested parties to
go up on their own roof and have a iook.
* ❖ %
“Lex”: Is there any part of the world,
outside N. S. Wales, where a woman bar-
rister instructed by a woman solicitor could
'appear in court and get a divorce for a
woman client? It happened in Sydney last
month. In London you sometimes see
■women barristers in the K.B. division acting
as juniors for “silks,” who are their friends;
but I have not heard of one “leading” in the
most trivial case. And there are no firms
of female solicitors in the City, to my
knowledge. By the way, if the Lang Gov-
ernment’s law reform measure goes on the
Statute Book women Judges will almost cer-
tainly arrive on the Supreme Court bench.
Legal work, like doctoring, house-designing,
play- and novel-writing, vetting and so forth,
can be done almost as well by women as
men, and nothing is surer than that, if the
big fees are scaled down, the big men will
turn from the law to a better-paid calling.
* * * *
“10-2-4”: In the general sympathy with
our unemployed there is a tendency to over-
look the heartrending plight of the Spanish
revolutionaries. According to the cables a
number of them called on Senor Rios, accused
him of “sabotaging the Revolution,” and
hinted that if something weren’t done about
it, and soon, they would start another revo-
lution, with the Senor and his colleagues
ip roles similar to those recently played
by Alfonso and his courtiers. Few will
deny that the comrades have been abomin-
ably treated. They had been striving for
years for last month’s upheaval. The idea
was that when the day of power arrived
there would be almost unlimited pickings.
Royal palaces, cathedrals, private mansions,
banks —all were to be well and truly looted
in the name of an outraged proletariat.
What happened? The revolutionary Minis-
ters took over quietly from the monarchist
ones. Abandoned edifices containing, valu-
ables were put under armed guards. The
Spanish toilers had hardly made the joyous
discovery that they were free at last—free
to loaf in luxury at the expense of the
exiled capitalists—when the voices of their
revolutionary overlords were heard curtly
ordering them back to work. However, it is
not for the workers, but for their leaders,
the equivalents of our Trades Hall officials,
that my heart bleeds. Many are known
to have borrowed freely on their prospects
of getting into Alfonso’s strong-room ahead
of the rank and file. Some have probably
pledged their aIL mortgaged their little
homes up to the hilt—and remember they
have wives—children —mothers! I expect
to hear any day now that the traitors who,
by sabotaging- the Revolution, were respon-
sible for the financial difficulties of these
patriots are callously allowing them to be
made bankrupt. What a reward for all
those years of effort on behalf of the down-
trodden workers!
:j: * *
“Cosmop”: If you told an untravelled
Londoner there was a better teashop 60
miles out of Sydney than he could show
you in the West End of the capital of the
world his response would be a hoarse cry
of derision. Yet so it is. The place I
mean is in Ivatoomba. Oddly enough, Lon-
don’s teashops are, and always have been,
extraordinarily bad. When Rumpelmayer’s
first started at the bottom of St. James’s-
street it was fairly good, and the Gunter
shops in the Bond-street area still hold their
heads high, but all provide ill-made tea,
badly-toasted muffins and the like, and poor
service. I know several teashops in poor
old Lang-ridden Sydney that are superior
to any in London (though they are not
so good as the Katoomba one) ; and,
of course, the teashops of Melbourne beat
any in N. S. Wales. Melbourne's best (any-
one who knows the southern city will pick
it in one) is probably as good, take it for all
in all, as any in the world, though I know
some country ones in England and Scot-
land that run it close. Why, by the way,
arc the teas of most great luxury hotels un-
speakably foul?
“S.T.S.”: Customs methods have given
Captain Hannevig, a Norwegian skipper
visiting Port Adelaide, two marvellous bar-
gains. A second-hand English car was
held for £llO duty, and somewhere near a
million cigarettes for £l5OO. The visitor
bought the two lots at open auction for .fix
bob, put them on board still in bond, and,
sailing away with them, was, of course, not
liable for the duty.
=1: * * *
“Biltong”: The Scorfield cartoon (B.
6/5/’3l) depicting Scullin and Theodore
cavorting around with an exuberant-looking
female entitled “Miss Fiduciary” recalls
that one of the first cartoons published in the
Transvaal occasioned a domestic rumpus.
More than 40 years ago, when Kruger was
playing off Capo Colony against Natal to
obtain customs and railway concessions from
both, the draughtsman of a Johannesburg
paper produced a spirited picture of the
President seated between two rackety ladies
and trying to make love to the pair.
The Boers -were hardly educated up to
these amenities of politics, but though
Paul might have stood it his wife be-
came desperately indignant. She didijt
care what the wicked Ultlanders said
or wrote about her husband —she wouldn’t
have understood it, anyhow—but she
regarded the picture as a reflection on his
personal morality, denounced it as an out-
r&g6 and *was convinced that the President s
character could only be vindicated if some-
body were sent to gaol. How Paul managed
to calm her, if he ever did, was never ascer-
tained.
MAYTIME.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now the slowly shortening daytime eloquently
tells of Maytime,
And for one I’ll frankly state I’m glad
that winter’s close ahead,
Though my beer has but a fraction of its
summertide attraction,
And my iceman’s out of action, and my
dahlias are dead.
Now proverbially merry (though just now
he isn’t very)
Bung essays the Tom and Jerry or the
rum-and-coffee lay;
Now the lawn needs little mowing, for the
grass has finished growing,
And the income-tax you’re owing must be
sent along in May.
Now there’s many a sign and token that the
autumn’s back is broken,
Testimony all unspoken that the year is
past the fall.
See the mackerel sky that dapples ere the
chill of even grapples;
Note the brave array of apples on the
bustling coster’s stall;
Hear the howling and the cheering and the
epithets endearing
Where, between the goals careering, mud-
died oafs their skill display.
Ha! Is that an umpire fleeing? One deduces
refereeing
Is a riskier game than ski-ing—when the
’bailers clash in May.
Chiffon now no longer shown is. Elsies,
Betties, Margies, Joanies
Nestle in the fur of conies, which is seldom
labelled right;
And they’ve somewhat more their knees on—
not that I suggest the season
In itself supplies the reason, though it
obviously might.
Hail the month when even flappers shiver in
their morning wrappers,
And the Stadium’s agile scrappers bring
more ginger to the fray!
From the bookies’ hoarser yelling to the
milk-oh’s shrill yodelling
There are lots of ways of telling that
we’re in the midst of May.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD


“Molls” : A registered mailbag containing
£lO,OOO in banknotes mysteriously dis-
appeared on May 1 somewhere between the
G.P.0., Sydney, and its destination at Can-
berra. There was no clue for nearly a
week as to when or how or at what stage
of the journey the bag with the treasure was
removed and a ' dummy one substituted;
then a police constable found the original
bag filled with stones in the Queanbeyan
River, where it had evidently been dropped
from the bridge above. The clue may not
amount to much, but it illustrates how the
most carefully planned and skilfully carried
out crime is liable to be marred, from the
point of view of the perpetrators, by some
negligence in detail. There would have
been many effective ways of getting
THE LOTTERY.
HIM: “A widow and so young! Isn’t marriage a
lottery?”
HER: “Yes, indeed. Most of us have to wait much
longer.”
rid of that bag; there could hardly have
been a more precarious one than by dropping
it into two feet of water.
* * *
“Iverrys”: One strange upheaval result-
ing from the Hawkes Bay earthquake
was that of an ancient Maori canoe, 66ft.
in length, which was discovered in the
Wairoa River during dredging opera-
tions. The craft, obviously a war canoe,
was of totara, and had evidently lain em-
bedded in the river-bed for centuries. The
acquisition of a genuine Maori war canoe
will cause some competition among the MX.
museums, whose specimens are mainly those
carved to order by the few remaining crafts-
men of the native race.
* $ *
“Wife-starver”: Sydney Children’s Court
lias its humors. A man sidled furtively up to
the entrance the other day, buttonholed a spare
official, who was on the doorstep, mentioned
his name (a very uncommon one) and asked
if there was any order against him. He had
been in the bush for the last seven years
and, returning to Sydney, had been told by
a friend that his wife had “put him in”
the Children’s Court. “Pobjoy?” mused the
official. “You must be the chap there’s a
warrant out for —a. matter of 300-odd pounds
arrears.” The visitor’s jaw dropped; he
turned and ran like a redshank up the
street. The noise of his departure attracted
another official, who was told the details.
“Pobjoy?” he repeated. “Oh, that’s
not the chap with the 300-quid warrant
—they’ve got him! This must be
the other Pobjoy, whose wife was down
after an order the other day, hearing he
was back in town.” But the man who fled
may never learn that the £3OO warrant is
r.ot chasing him; at the rate lie was going
he is likely to keep ahead of any news.
* * * *
“Bloggs” : I dislike censors, and am pro-
British, but I can easily see why, if Mr.
O’Reilly is going to bar talkies for
smut, he should oust two English films for
every American one. Most of Hollywood’s
products are elemental affairs aimed frankly
at the morons of the U.S.A.’s flannel night-
gown belt. It is impossible to be sexy in
pictures about cowboys, small-town grocers,
white-haired old mammies on farms, crooks
on active service against the police, etc. The
motifs don’t blend. Even the idle classes of
America don’t seem to wise-crack about
sex much, judging by their “society” films ;
drink and money are more popular subjects
for jest with them. In England, outside
motliers’-meeting circles, jokes _ with a
naughty flavor diyide honors with clast
jokes—those recondite gags, usually featur-
ing an exchange of remarks between a butler
and his mistress, which practically nobody
but habitual “Punch” readers can appre-
ciate. Just because English playwrights
are more sophisticated, as a rule, and write
for a more sophisticated public, their wit
tends to be —well, “slimier” is the only word.
The bedstead jests in “Canaries Sometimes
Sing” illustrate what I mean. When the
Yanks want to make a remark about the
reproductive processes they mostly do it with-
out sniggering. It is the difference between
a roaring vulgarian like Rabelais and the
more genteel but dirtier-minded Sterne.
* * >i= *
“S.T.S.” : Sturt’s old home by the sea, at
the Grange, an Adelaide suburb, is going
begging. Neither public nor private funds
are available to preserve it as a national
memorial, and no bid was made when the
mortgagee put it up to auction. Its seven
acres have latterly been used as a poultry
farm.
* * * *
“Dogger” : Some of these Bulletin fish-
mongers do protest too much. Tel] “White-
hall” (B. S/4/’32) that John Dory, a fish
which the trawlers catch in considerable
quantities, can be bought within two minutes’
walk of The Bulletin office. The same shop
sells leather-jacket, rock-cod steaks, king-
fish in season, and several of the other
varieties whose absence from his menu he
deplores. In addition to the Murray cod,
the even more delectable golden perch is
also available from our inland waters when
the seasons admit of its being dragged to
Sydney.
* * * *
“Dr. Nil” : A “dodger” notifying that there
would be a meeting on May Day of all those
who wished to Abolish Capital by Bloody
Revolution decided me to go
and hear the process ex-
plained in the Communist
ring behind the Botanical
Gardens, Adelaide. There
were at least 150 ’“workers
present, including myself,
and some 25 police. The first
speaker, evidently put up to
fill in time until the multi-
tude should arrive, spouted
a few disjointed platitudes;
when it became clear that the
multitude had. missed the
train or something, the Chief
Comrade took his place. He
was, so he said, a returned
soldier; he spoke with a
marked foreign accent, and
fluently. It began to rain in
buckets, the speaker broke
off short in the middle of a
sentence, and the “Red
Flag” was sung by the 35
comrades who still remained.
Then the police left, and so
did I.
i-fi *
“Nixon”: Some of the
female fortune-tellers whom
the police think it worth
while to trip up occasionally
throw in a free wish as good
measure, in addition to the
stuff about imminent voyages
and legacies. “Wish and it
will come true,” said a 1931
model of the Witch of Endor
to a police constable in dis-
guise, who had parted with
two marked florins to enable
her to peer into the future,
after doing some hanky-
panky with the cards, And
it did, according to the con-
stable’s evidence when the
lady was being prosecuteo.
H'is wish, he said in reply
to a direct question from the magistrate, was
that he would secure a conviction in this
particular case, which was precisely what
happened. Considering that he had the
marked coins to rely on, it seems hardly
fair to have invoked the lady s occult poweis
for her own undoing. ...
“Lao-dah”: Economists struggling with
the problem of a world short of bare neces-
sities have food for melancholy thought m
the will of that amazing American spinster
Ella Wendel, “the loneliest and richest
woman in the world,” who left £20,000,000
recently. One of the most fantastic in a
list of extraordinary benefactions is the gift
of £2,500,000 to a Methodist institution
engaged in instilling Biblical knowledge
into 40 Chinese students at Nanking.
The Chinese attitude . towards Christian-
ity at the moment is that it is the
ally of foreign—especially American—im-
perialists, and the prospect of a 12,000,000-
dollar factory of imported theology in
the capital of the country is unlikely
to be pleasing to the authorities. The sem-
inary was looted and destroyed by a military
mob in 1927.
“Binduli” : I never see a draper’s adver-
tisement notifying a sale of stock slightly
damaged by fil‘ e or wader without thinking
of Pat Whelan, of Kalgoorlie. Pat had
been an Adelaide shopwalker in his younger
days and though his later activities wbre
entirely devoted to the sale of malted and
spirituous liquors he claimed an intimate
knowledge of the softgoods business. One of
his best stories related to a quantity of
drapery that had been salvaged from a
wreck and purchased by his employers, who
arranged a “salvage sale.’ The goods
realised excellent prices, every stitch being
disposed of in three days.. The alleged
X however, Pat would explain delightedly,
lasted for three or four weeks. Every night
after the doors were shut, he would tell in
his rich Irish brogue, tubs of seawater were
carried up by perspiring and loyal assist-
ants to the upper floors, and sufficient stocks
to meet the next day’s demand for “goods
from the wrecked Bolivar” were treated by
ready hands, presently to be snapped up at
prices people will always pay when they
are convinced they are getting bargains. It
made a good yarn, however much of it was
IF HE’D ONLY JUST LET IT LIE.
“I’m going out for a while before I turn in. I slept like a log last night.
“Yes, dear. But I wish you wouldn’t try to saw it.”
embroidery or invention, and, along with a
round or twjjp of drinks on the house, rarely
failed to brisk up Pat’s bar takings.
' “Morita”: My experience of shop-assist-
ants these times is quite different from that
of “10-2-4” (B. 6/5/’3l). With fear of
the axe and rationing over their heads, many
of them must perforce rely on the size ot
their sales dockets to keep them m then-
jobs, Where previously stores asked all and
sundry to roam through their, departments
without obligation to buy, what’s left ol
the staff nowadays tackles a man in relays.
Only the other day, five minutes before knock-
off time, a counter-hand started hauling down
trays of ties for me, vowing he’d find me
what I wanted even if we had to be let out
by the back door. In the post offices, Imw-
ever, there is no such readiness to oblige.
Quite recently, when I tendered a telegram
that I knew wouldn’t be dealt with till next
morning, the servant of the public flung down
his pencil, glared hard and then remarked
to his cobber, “Well, I’ll be damned!
Whad’yer think of that?”
* * * *
“Centurion”: Faced with a serious
shortage of junior officers, the British Gov-
ern men t has asked for the
services of a dozen or so ex-
Duntrooners. It is a good
chance for our lads, for the
general conditions in the
Imperial Service in these days
of improved pay plus allow-
ances are better than those
available in the C.M.F., or
what the anti-militarists have
left of it. Britain should
benefit also, for it is doubt-
ful if any young officers in
the world’ underwent such a
training as the C-.M.F. cadets
when they were isolated
at Duntroon, far from
every distraction but hard
work. Sandhurst, Woolwich
and even West Point alb offer
ample opportunity for an
occasional run off the chain.
Not so Duntroon, though the
present location of the Mili-
tary College in the heart of a
Sydney congested area may
change all that.
“L. de R.” A staid Mel-
bourne citizen got the shock
of his life when he received
this unsigned telegram: “Get
your daughter married before
Ronald Colman arrives at the
Athenaeum on Saturday, May
2, or there will be the devil
to pay.” Inquiry at the tele-
graph office elicited the infor-
mation that the message had
beep sent by a publicity man,
and a complaint to the
P.M.G. drew the retort that
there was nothing libellous in
the document, since similar
telegrams had been sent to a large number
of unoffending fathers of families. Plenty
of citizens are still unfamiliar with the
quaint ways of the Americanised Australian
film “industry,” and one of these days the
method of advertisement may cause a first-
class domestic tragedy.
* % * *
“Tranby”: T'lic late Sir Edward Clarke
(B. 6/5/’3l) appeared in the “baccarat case”
of 1891, when the then Prince of Wales was
a material witness. An amazing case it was,
and whether justice was done is a matter
unlikely ever to be settled. Two of the other
players at one of those little card flutters to
which the future king was partial swore that
they saw Sir William Gordon-Cumming, a
wealthy baronet and a close personal friend
of the heir-apparent, deliberately cheating.
What is more, they convinced Edward P.
that they had seen the cheating. After an
attempt to hush up the unpleasant affair had
failed, the baronet brought an action for
defamation against his accusers and lost it,
after a seven days’ hearing. The verdict
meant that he had to resign his commission
in the Scots Guards, disappear from socieD
and retire to Ins Highland estate. Yet may
people believed that he was cruelly ,
the victim not of a P lot W ri t
mistake. One of those people was'blaike,.then
Solicitor-General, who was coum tl
plaintiff, and who never wavered m bis opinion
that the verdict was a wrong one; another
was the baronets fiancee, who married him
shortly after. Gordon-Cummimr died a yeai
or two ago, an octogenarian.
* . * , " TT
“BYng-Shui meets Ah Lang in Han„
Soon :
It was a hot, moist, stagnant evening in a walled
city of middle China. A half-naked crowd moved
about under the wooden shop signs and the hanging
banners covered with cabalistic Chinese characters,
and at each street comer lolled a soldier with fixed
bayonet. In the middle of a block the crowd of
small merchants, students and coolies was packed
tight, all eyes directed at the open front of a shop
brilliantly lighted. On the raised platform stood
a student in a long cotton gown and a black skull-
cap sibilantly haranguing the mob. There was a
shrine behind him set with dishes of food and a
brass bowl with joss-sticks stuck in a heap of
ashes; on the walls hung lurid cartoons depicting
British soldiers impaling Chinese children on then-
bayonets. Suddenly the gaudy curtain behind the
shrine was violently flung aside and a tall, mus-
cular man in the slack pants and patched black
tunic of the coolie rushe d into the shop front. After
some gyrations in f ront of the shri ne he snatched
up a couple of wooden skewers and, with a single
adroit action, thrust the pointed sticks, a foot m
SHE BELIEVED IN LOCAL ENTERPRISE.
MORTHER: “You naughty girl, Betty, to pick up your
food that way. I ought to send you away till you
learn manners.”
BETTY: “Why, Mummy—can’t I learn ’em at home?”
length, through his upper lip. With his tongue
he gave them a rolling motion which made him
look like a comic ogre out of a literary drama. A
quiet Ah! of appreciation for his virtuosity went
up from the spectators. Then he produced a safety-
razor blade from somewhere, and, protruding his
tongue, made what appeared to be a deep cut in it.
Without any more evidence of feeling than is dis-
played bv a nurse at a minor operation, the student
orator handed him a bowl in which lie caught some
of the blood that streamed from the wound. The
coolie dipped a finger into the fluid and traced
some characters on a piece of red paper, which the
student burned in front of the shrine with the same
air of bored indifference. As if it were all in the
day’s work the coolie took his tunic off the nail,
got into it and retired behind the curtain. Presently
he emerged into the crowd and took up a collection,
while his student companion resumed his address
on the spinelessness of the Central Government,
the wickedness of the foreign financial interests to
which it had mU the country and the Utopia
that was certain to arrive if a certain party were
returned to office. I moved on, haying witnessed
the Celestial equivalent of a Lang political meeting.
THE SOUR GRAPES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Agent-General Willis, interviewed in New York,
agreed that N. S. Wales would be unable to obtain
any financial aid in the U.S.A., but added that this
was a good thing, ‘because we do not want to raise
loans at this juncture.’ ”
When pubs are closed at eventide,
There’s lots of thirsty mortals
Disconsolateness cannot hide*
At being bound to stay outside
Those hospitable portals.
My frame of mind is not that kind,
I’m cheerier and blither;
It always heartens me to think
That though I cannot yet a drink
I do not want one either.
Last year my banker looked askance,
Refusing, stony-hearted,
To let my overdraft advance.
I saw I hadn’t Buckley’s chance,
And mournfully departed.
Yet now, begad! I’m feeling glad,
Though then it caused me sorrow.
In future all who will not lend
Can unmistakably depend
Upon me not to borrow.
And, likewise, now that loans have ceased
(See Willis in the cables),
We don’t require them in the least;
Our model’s that sagacious beast
The fox of iEsop’s fables,
Who loved a bunch of grapes for lunch
And greedily would scoff them,
But when beyond his reach they towered
Proclaimed to Heaven the things were soured
And lie himself was off them.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


Leipzig' Trade Fair
e
“THE GREATEST OF ALL TRADE FAIRS”
(Twice Yearly).
Autumn Fair, Incorporating
w
TEXTILE, ENGINEERING and
BUILDING FAIRS
Commences August 30, 1931.
The Organisation of the Leipzig Trade Fairs is so effective that visitors will not experience any
difficulty with the language, questions of freight, duties, banking and general commercial information.
The Advisory Offices of the German Exporters’ Association offer expert assistance in your purchases
The W.E.Z. Organisation will gladly supply you with all information concerning the addfesses
and reputation of suitable German Export Houses.
“SUMMER IN GERMANY IS THE PERFECTION OF THE BEAUTIFUL.”
Inquiries invited, courteous and full information given, bv
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. ’Phones 84006 MW2201
C. N. KEPPEL, e/o Marcard Lund & Co., Ltd., Post Office Place’ Melbourne Victoria
'
<3
fra
:
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. \V. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED
£2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch* Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private nospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provitle for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications jor Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H - E - BIDEN, Secretary. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The best-known banker in Australia at
the moment is, curiously enough, not a
banker by training or profession; Robert
Gibson was never even a director till he was
put on the Commonwealth Bank board as
representative of the manufacturing inter-
ests. He bad been a successful maker of
bedsteads and other ironware, and had been
chairman or member of many commissions
—-including the Vic. State Electricity Com-
mission, which John Monash now rules. He
is Scotch and cautious and very self-pos-
sessed, and he went through liis ordeal in
the Senate without turning a hair. Yet he
might have felt more comfortable if he had
had his strong pillar, Riddle, the governor
of the bank, to lean upon in case of need.
Riddle, though a sound banker who knows
all the technics of the business, has not Gib-
son’s mastery of words.
The death of Alexander Robert Richard-
son in Perth, at 82, leaves Edward Witte-
noom the only survivor of the Forrest Min-
istry that ran Westralia from the end of
3590 to the beginning of 1901. Considering
the length of its tenure there weren’t many
Ministers—l 4 in all. Richardson was com-
missioner of Crown Lands for a couple of
years in the middle of the period. He was
a Nor’-West squatter who had taken up
land before he was out of his ’teens when
the Roebourne district was first settled —
Adam Lindsay Gordon was one of those
attracted by that enterprise, and he stayed
some months there. Richardson left the
Cabinet, .and Parliament soon afterwards,
f°r. a reason seldom adduced by retiring
politicians; he was a man of deep religious
convictions, and found that public life inter-
fered with them.
A Boer War veteran, although he was
barely 21 when the first Australian contin-
gent left for South Africa, was Wil-
liam Cameron, member for Upper Hunter
in the N.S.W. Assembly, who died at Mus-
wellbrook last week. Born at Rouchel, where
his family were among the earliest settlers
over 90 years ago, he was one of the best-
known farmers and graziers in the Scone
district. He had sat 13 years in Parliament—-
for Upper Hunter, then for Maitland, then
for Upper Hunter again. In his younger
days he was a fine athlete, and was a
member of an Australian team of cricketers
that toured Ceylon.
When proceedings become turbulent at
meetings of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. execu-
tive, its new president, Paddy Keller, should
be able to restore order by donning a false
nose and singing the latest comic song. In
his young days Keller was a music-hall funny
man; he deserted the halls for a soapbox,
and there are some who say that Poverty
Point lost a pretty good comedian. A native
Labor’s new 'president in Sydney.
of Balmain (Sydney), the son of Cork-born
parents, he left school at 13, and saved up
enough money in the tailoring trade to take
him through an R.G. college. Mt. Kembla
sent him to the delegate board of the Miners’
Federation and to four A.L.P. conferences;
it was during the last one that the Graves-
Garden group picked him for the presidency.
Sydney Cotton, mentioned in the cables
as one of the searchers in Greenland
for the lost explorer Cortauld. who
was found alive and well, is a Queens-
lander who went to the war with the Light
Horse, subsequently changing, as the Smith
brothers and others did, to the flying side
of the game. He has had a lot of experience
of civil flying over long routes, which is
quite a different business from the war-
time strafes, one of his skips being a Cairo-
to-Cape stunt, which ended unfortunately.
Dad Cotton is a well-known southern Queens-
land squatter who made hoggins o’ brass out
of Charters Towers.
The Bulletin (6/5/’3l) was wrong.
The John Fairfax who has just been
appointed to the board of the “S. M.
Herald” is not young John Fairfax, cousin
of managing-director Warwick, but John
Hubert Fraser Fairfax, an uncle of War-
wick’s.
Willie Wright, who has just relinquished the
managing-editorship of Bendigo “Advertiser,”
is one of the oldest Inky Wayfarers in
J. C. McPHEE, the Premier who won the
Tas. general election last Saturday.
Quartzopolis. Forty-one years ago he was
business manager of the old “Independent” ;
when this was amalgamated with the “’Tiser”
lie became general manager and editor. He
will remain one of the directors of the com-
pany.
Billy Ward, the last of the single-handed
prospectors of New Guinea, has gone to
join his mates in the Never-Never country.
An American, he first went to Papua with
Priddle’s party, as engineer of the launch
which was to be used for dredging the
Lakekamu field, and he was the first to
find gold at Sunset Creek. He prospected the
Tauri unsuccessfully, and had returned to
big-game shooting, with the< object of estab-
lishing a trade with Port Moresby, when he
contracted the illness of which he died.
C. E. W. Bean has so impressed him-
self on Australia as its war-time chroni-
cler and historian that it is hard to realise
that he secured the job in a ballot. In
1914 the Imperial Government asked the
Commonwealth to choose a press correspon-
dent to accompany the Australian forces in
the field. Defence Minister Pearce passed
on the selection to the A.J.A., which called
for nominations. Twenty were received and
after several ballots Bean—a Bathurst
native, Oxford graduate, barrister and leader-
writer —landed the billet. Keith Murdoch
was the runner-up. Bean was 35 then; at
52 he is still on the job, or the aftermath
of it.
Seymour Buffett, who died at Norfolk
Island, aged 84, the other day, was one of
the Pitcairn Islanders transferred thither
in 1856; his dad was a seaman dropped
at Pitcairn by a British whaler. Dad
must have been a man of some education,
for he kept a record of births and deaths on
the island, starting it in 1823, 33 years after
the Bounty mutineers and their Tahitian
brides landed at Pitcairn. Seymour Buffett’s
death leaves seven survivors of the Pit-
cairners taken to Norfolk Island. Almost
without exception they were a long-lived lot.
Major-General Nevill Smyth, V.C., Nation-
alist candidate for the Senate vacancy caused
by the death of “Pompey” Elliott, was one
of the two last Imperial officers to be
attached to the A.1.F.; Birdwood was the
other. Smyth handed over to Rosenthal in
May, 1918. He led the First Brigade at Lone
Pine and at Pozieres, and the Second Divi-
sion at Bullecourt and Ypres. For the past
seven years he has been farming in Victoria’s
western district. H'is V.C. was won at
Khartoum in 1898.
Bernard Heinze, Ormond Professor of
Music at Melbourne University, has landed
the rare distinction of a Royal College of
Music fellowship. The young man is not
Melbourne’s best orchestra-conductor, but bis
“celebrity” concerts at the Town Hall are
an annual feast patronised by thousands of
genuine music-lovers as well as by social
lights who don’t know a crochet from a
quaver. Heinze introduced a new attitude
towards the National Anthem by having
it performed as if it were a major composi-
tion. Mischa Levitzki went one better by
playing two verses of it, making a sort of
fugue of the second. Between them they
have about exhausted the possibilities of the
famous tune.
C. A. Jeffries did not last quite long
enough to get a job on the Sydney Labor
daily which he left The Bulletin to join.
But that was over 17 years ago, and many
things have happened since. The home had
been built, the machinery installed and the
staff almost organised when the Kaiser got
off the chain; whereupon the machinery was
packed away in grease to await resurrection.
•1. iC. Watson, the first Labor Prime Min-
ister, was to have been manager, Dave Gil-
bert editor and Keith Murdoch liis asso-
ciate. They scattered at once —to all land
better jobs than even the “World” could
have offered them. A staff is being got to-
gether again, and there are hopes that the
wheels will go round in June.
G. C. Collard, who died recently in Paris,
at 32, was the first holder of the Maori-
land University’s diploma in journalism.
He went from Christchurch to Brisbane,
eight years ago, and then on to London to
try his luck. He was engaged on a novel
when heart failure ended a bright career.
Haakon Qviller, who was killed in Maori-
land when liis parachute failed to open at an
altitude of 5000 feet, was a Norwegian jour-
nalist who made a profession of jumping
out of aeroplanes. He was well known at
most Australian aerodromes, where it was
the considered opinion that he would have
a short life and not a very merry one.
“Bull” Ityrie, whose sustained refusal to
comment publicly on the diminishing of his
official dignity as Australian High Commis-
sioner has astonished everyone acquainted '
with him, is having a rough spin in
London as a result of the Langing of the
N.S.W. State Savings Bank. He finds him-
self the constant target of destitute Aus-
tralians, many of whom have had money trans-
ferred to the London branch of the bank but
are unable to get at it, and, as’ he says, he
is helpless to assist them save in a personal
way. How the lower-salaried Agents-Leneral
are faring can only be guessed at.
The nine years’ reign of George Elliot as
chairman of the Bank of N.Z. having ended;
William Watson, ordinary shareholders’
director _ for the last 33 years, wields the
sceptre in his stead. Watson has twice be-
fore been the boss of the bank. When Sed-
don rushed to its rescue in 1893 he appointed
Watson, who was chief inspector of the
Colonial Bank when the N.Z. absorbed it, as
president, a job he held till the rearrange-
ment in 1898, when he was compensated for
WILLIAM WATSON, new chairman of
Bank of New Zealand.
the breaking of a 10 years’ contract at £2250
p.a. Watson, whose banking career com-
menced with the Caledonian, in London, in
1864, and who was managing the Shanghai
branch of the Oriental 50 years ago, has
been a great battler for the ordinary share-
holders, who owe him many a perk. He
was acting-chairman in Elliot’s absence in
1924, and though 85 this year he is still a
very shrewd and forceful member of the
board.
Edward Sliann, whom the Bank of N.S.W.
has borrowed from the Westralian Uni.,
has been teaching history and economics
at Perth for 18 years. Between whiles he
has published some masterly treatises and,
in lighter vein, “Cattle Chosen,” a biographi-
cal account, of the struggles of the pioneers
of Busselton (W.A.). The professor was
born in Hobart 47 years ago, and held
university jobs at Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane successively, besides having a spell
at the London School of Economics, before
Perth annexed him.
No Australian singer, not even Melba, is
known to more of the world’s ears than
Peter Dawson.
As far back
as 1904 it was
discovered that
refer had a
voice just right
for mechanical
rep ro duction,
and in that
year he made
his first gramo-
phone record;
since then he
has made hun-
dreds, and
some of them
have had huge
sales. Mean-
time Peter has
been trouba-
douring all
over the world
(he reached
Covent Garden
in 1909), and,
though 15
years ago
there was talk
of him retir-
ing and amus-
ing himself
with t h e,
family canis-
PETER DAWSON .
ter factory in
Adelaide, in which he spent the first work-
ing years of his life, nothing came of it. Bat
he is still young—lie won’t be 50 till next:
year. Peter never talks about his own com-
positions ; but in future when you come
across a song by J. P. McCall you may know
that McCall’s other name is Dawson.
“Oxmead”: “Smiler” Hales, the man of
many books and newspaper articles innumer-
able, rose above the disabilities of bad hand-
writing and erratic spelling (B. 6/5/’3l).
When “Smiler” left Westralia for S’Africa
in ’99, his only credentials as a war corres-
pondent were a half-promise from one or
two goldfields newspapers to publish any-
thing he might send. A year afterwards I
came across his first contribution, written
from a troopship at Albany, which had appa-
rently never been published because nobody
could be bothered to “sub” it. The only thing
I remember in it was that the contingent
to which “Smiler” had attached himself—
a S. Aus, one —needed a mascot, and was
relying on him to steal a dog. H'ales .got
his chance when a London daily was left
without a representative owing to casualty,
and he. grabbed it with both hands. W. T.
Stead, whose standards were very ..different,
commended his letter's for one thing: they
were “full of sympathy for a beaten foe.”
H. T. Vickers, Premier Hogan’s secretary,
has retired after seeing 25 Governments
and 18 Premiers come and go. He began
as a reporter on the Bendigo “Evening
News,” and entered the State service as a
stenographer 40 years ago.
Dave Walker, who was given a send-off
by Inky Wayfarers at the A.J.A. rooms,
Melbourne, on his retirement from journal-
ism, brought off some big scoops for the
“Herald” 40 .years ago, when his daily
round included the Customs. He got wind
of the demand for duty on the diamonds
bought abroad as a gift for Governor Loch’s
wife when the pair were about to leave.
There was some hubbub, as the committee
of notables had spent all the money collected
and it looked for a time as if the presenta-
tion would have to be made “in bond.” For
the last 40 years Walker was associated with
provincial and inter-State work:
From “Rue Royal,” who knew him :
Ellis Ashmead Bartlett, who has died of pneumonia
in his prime, was a near-genius handicapped by cir-
cumstances and a temperament. His father married
the Baroness Burdett Coutts, a millionairess more
than twice his age. The boy was brought up with
unlimited money all round him and very little of
his own. His tastes were expensive, and his favorite
club was the Travellers’, in Paris, where they gamble
in thousands. That was why, though his earning
capacity was large, he managed to go bankrupt
before the end. He went on paying off his debts
(though of course under no legal obligation to do
so) after the proceedings, that being the sort of
man he was. His handicap as a w-ar correspondent
was his determination to learn the truth and tell it.
He scorned “brass-hats,” and the soothing lies
officialdom, civil and military, wants to be told to
the public during a war. He was well equipped to
see through lies of the sort, as he had attended many
campaigns, and had made a careful study of the art
of warfare. His physique was poor. Nothing but
his driving nervous energy sustained him in the de-
mands he made on his frail constitution. Perhaps
that was one of the reasons why he idolised the lusty
Diggers. His knowledge of European affairs and
personalities was encyclopedic; he spoke many lan-
guages and French like a Parisian, and he had the
vivid style of a romantic poet.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
w
In danger’s hour retreat disdain,
Quit not your post whate’er betide,
Stand fast ’mid peril, wounds and pain,
Tho’ death you dare still steadfast bide.
When winter’s bronchial ailments rage
Fear not the symptoms you endure.
There’s sure relief for every stage
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. — Advt.
Bank of Now Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital ••••••••;
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description ot Banking Business
conducted.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £ £> ' £
1921.. 132,274 10 p.c.= 125,000 7,274 674,681
1922.. 194,718 10 „ ~ 125,000 69,718 744,399
Written off steamships, £25,000.. 719,399
1923.. 192,242 10 p.c.= 125,000 67,242 786,641
Written off steamships, £25,000.. 761,641
1924.. 182,357 10 p.e.= 125,000 57,357 818,998
1925.. 190,155 10 „ „ 125,000 65,155 884,153
1926.. 198,688 10 „ ~125,000 73,688 957,841
1927.. 213,297 10 „ ~137,500 75,797 1,033,638
1928.. 243,485 10 „ ~150,000 93,485 1,127,123
1929.. 244,381 10 „ ~150,000 94,381 1,221,504
1930.. 247,946 10 „ ~150,000 97,946 1,319,450
1931.. 241,675 10 „ ~ 150,000 91,675 1,411,125
Built on solid foundations, laid by the far-
sighted James Burns as far back as; the
sixties of last century, this merchandising
and shipping business spread from Queens-
land to the rest of Australia, out over the
Pacific islands and north to Java, Singapore
and elsewhere. When the founder died seven
years ago his successors inherited the old
policy, part of which was to provide liberally
for contingencies during the fat years, and
to-keep a firm grip upon outgoings.
Last year a, shrinkage in earnings was
reported in several directions, mainly mer-
chandising and shipping. The chief sub-
sidiary, Burns Philp (South Sea), which
took over part of the parent’s business in
1920 for a half-million in scrip, maintained
its distribution at 7| p.c.; but the Queens-
land Insurance Co., of whose £500,000 of
capital 8., P. and Co. owns nearly half,
chipped 21 points off its div., reducing it
to 10 p.c. Nevertheless, with “care and
economy,” the parent was able to exhibit
gross profits (£773,170) only £7685 short
of the previous year’s. Exes. (£404,692)
were pulled back £8215; but an extra £5248
was struck off for depreciation, etc.
(£141,265). So, after taking into account an
unexplained addition of £14,462 to the “in-
surance fund and branch and other reserves,”
raising them to £502,237, the net result was
16.1 p.c. on capital as against 16.5, 16.2,
15.5, 15.9 and 15.2 back to 1925.
Amongst the factors which helped to put
the sparkle into those figures is the fine pile
of visible reserves, heaped to within £88,875
of paid capital at March 31. In addition
there is the inner strength. Since 1920 no
less than £1,327,627 has been openly struck
off the book value of assets to cover depre-
ciation, etc., and the “Wild Cat” suspects
that some of that may have been genuine
profit. It all looks very encouraging for
the maintenance of the 10 p.c. div., especially
as a substantial portion of the earnings are
gathered from outside Australia —a pleasant
thing in these days when the Australian
£ is at such a discount.
The way the business keeps on expanding,
despite dull times, the next comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows: —
1915. 1925 1930. 1931.
Paid capital 1,000,000 1,250,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities .. 261,095 1,361,444 1,190,859 1,328,171
P r operties,
shipping, in-
v e stments,
etc. .. 575,790 2,030,836 2,237,691 2,702,560
Stocks
vances, etc. 573,147 683,968 770,175 572,410
Book debts 382,624 781,838 943,709 912,562
Cash .. 47,018 123,955 133,734 126,764
The nature of the assetfc which added
£464,869 to the book value of properties,
ships and investments last year is not men-
tioned. The purchase of a new motor vessel
for the islands, however, explains part of
the growth. To finance the outlay £137,312
was added to the debt, and liquids were
drawn upon for the balance. Thus the more
or less liquid surplus (£283,565, including
stocks) was £373,194 lighter than at the
previous balance.
The Malabar, a five-year-old passenger ship
in the Java-Singapore service, became a
total wreck near Sydney shortly after the
close of accounts. She has been replaced
temporarily by the Mangola, a reserve
freighter.
In March, 1929, the market, considering
extra benefits imminent, paid 50s. for the
pound shares. The price had fallen to 345.
a year later, but is now steady at 375. 6d.
Allowing for the final div., the return at
that figure is 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The visible backing is 38s. lOd. in net tan-
gibles.
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 25,840 6,932 6,536 12,372 100,294
Profit on sale of property, £8500.. 145,122
1921.. 41,826 7,238 r 9,573 25,015 170,137
Profit from sale of assets, £278 .. 195,905
1923.. 52,878 12,531 15,092 25,255 221,160
Profit from sale of assets, £407.. 221,567
1926.. 78,071 14,524 21,365 42,182 338,575
Staff Provident Fund, £lOOO .. 337,575
1927.. 86,733 21,195 16,919 48,619 386,194
1928.. 94,783 20,066 18,058 56,659 442,853
1929.. 104,903 26,728 29,875 48,300 491,153
1930.. 107,381 30,150 23,924 53,307 544,460
*lncludes divs. to shareholders: 1918, £458 ;
1923, £3708; 1926, £5208 ; 1929, £8333 ; 1930,
£3958.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
1918.. 55,654 18,538 28,858 8,258 70,005
Profit on sale of property, £15,437. . 120,553
1921.. 80,298 18,096 39,186 23,016 143,569
Written off, £3437 140,132
Profit from sale of assets, £278 . . 164,845
1923.. 99,324 24,426 49,180 25,718 190,563
Profit from sale of assets, £4OB . . 190,971
1926.. 136,445 31,240 68,811 36,394 303,543
Profit from sale of assets, £2023.. 305,566
Staff Provident Fund, £4OOO .. 301,566
1927.. 148,553 35,920 71,633 40,980 342,566
1928.. 160,359 38,179 74,212 47,968 390,534
1929.. 170,172 41,272 80,961 47,939 438,473
1930.. 171,353 42,173 78,432 50,748 489,221
Staff Provident Fund, £2OOO .. 487,221
*lncludes divs. to shareholders: 1922, £888;
1923, £l4BO ; 1924, £1966; 1925, £3473 ;
1926-30, £7500 p.a.
It took over 20 years for the now 35-year-
old Australian Metropolitan Life to turn
the corner. The development since has been
along sound lines, and both bonuses to policy-
holders and divs. to shareholders haye become
regular events. In 1917 liabilities under
policies exceeded the life funds by £8538.
"The divisible surplus was £32,856 in 1922;
£59,393, 1925; £86,800, 1928. Meanwhile
the basis of valuation was reduced to a
uniform 3J p.c., and £20,000 was trans-
ferred to the investment fluctuation reserve
(now £45,000), thus affording policy-holders
better protection.
Last year the co. shared the general ex-
perience. The slip in the amount of new
business written was £162,418 in the Ordi-
nary and £119,795 in the Industrial branch;
£23,378 was paid out in surrenders as
against £16,247 the year before, and loans
on policies (£60,710) increased £19,012.
Still, a firm grip was kept upon exes., and,
though more was reserved for suspended
mortality and less was paid in divs., bonuses
to policy-holders were on the same scale as
for the two preceding, years. Whether
bonuses are likely to be interfered with will
depend largely upon the amount of. lapses
and the growth -in taxation. But it is from
the possibilities of inflation that policy-
holders have most to fear.
A disappointing feature of the activities
has fieen the small amount of ordinary busi-
ness written: —■
1920. 1927. 1929. 1930.
New policies.. 1,226 1,564 1,911 1,442
Assuring .. £186,988 £338,557 £476,786 £314,368
First premiums 7,349 11,429 15,024 10,170
Renew al
premiums .. 23,225 53,691 62,343 68,31 a
Last year exes, made off with 25.4 p.c. of
the net premiums as against 27.8 p.c., 1929;
29 p.c., 1924. But lapses and surrenders
lifted new business costs to 117.4 p.c. of the
first premiums as against 101.3 p.c. in the
previous year; that is on the generally-
accepted basis that new business is 10 times
more costly than old. Bonuses ranged from
1.5 p.c. to 3 p.c. of the premiums received.
Industrial business has moved in this way:
1920. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Policies .. 11,771 14,221 13,511 12,133
Assuring .. £505,638 £685,493 £661,230 £541,435
Net premiums 65,655 137,919 143,646 143,246
Interest, etc... 27,525 28,108
Last year’s new premiums were insufficient
to offset the shrinkage through claims and
lapses. Exes, took 49.5 p.c. of the. net pre-
miums compared with 57.1 p.c. in 1929.
Bonuses were 10 p.c. on the sum assured for
policies 15 years in force, with an extra
1 p.c. for each additional year.
Surplus interest and a favorable mortality
experience have been the chief sources of
profit. It is assumed that the funds will
earn p.c.; last year the average rate real-
ised was 6.1 p.c. ...
The protection for policy-holders is in this
form:—
1929. 1930.
Freeholds, etc. £211,567 21.3 p.c. £211,235 19.0 p.c.
Govt, securities 361,067 36.4 ~ 420,624 37.8 „
Shares other cos. 17,907 1.8 „ 18,831 1.7 ~
Mortgages .. 306,405 30.9 ~ 343,208 30.9 ~
Loans on policies 41,698 4.2 ~ 60,710 5.5 „
Book debts .. 35,501 3.6 ~ 43,824 3.9 ~
Cash .. .. 17,406 1.8 „ 13,874 1.2 „
The £104,055 added to the Assurance funds
last year went mainly into Government secu-
rities, mortgages and loans on policies.
Over the last four years shareholders have
received £42,291 in divs., of which £30,000
was from the Industrial and the balance from
the Ordinary branch. The average was
21.1 p.c. p.a.
Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
Oct., £ £ £ £
1920.. 573,052 13 p.c. = 455,000 3,220,875
Premiums on new shares, £250,000 3,470,875
1921.. 588,389 13 p.c. = 487,500 25,000 3,546,764
1922.. 620,105 13 „ „ 520,000 3,646,869
1923.. 618,559 13 „„ 520,000 3,745,428
1924 629 904 13 ~ „ 520,000 25,000 3,830,332
1925. . 632’,555 13 „ „ 520,000 50,000 3,892,887
1926.. 652,621 14 „ „ 560,000 40,000 3,945,508
1927.. 654,060 14 „ ~ 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Share premiums, £600,000 .. 4,589,568
1928.. 675,192 14 p.c. = 595,000 80,000 4,589,760
1929.. 677,183 14 „ ~630,000 4,636,943
1930.. 615,084 13 „ „ 585,000 4,667,027
It was a pleasant piece of stratagem which
surprised the market and further enhanced
the reputation of this 96-year-old Anglo-Aus-
tralian institution. The board knocked a
shilling off the final div., reducing it to 6s.
per share, or 12 p.c. p.a., making 13 p.c for
the year. But payment was made in sterling
equivalent on March 27. At that date £lOO
sterling was equal to £129 7s. 6d. in Austra-
lian notes “on demand”; so the 6s. was
actually worth 7s. 9d. to those on the local
register, thus lifting their div. in terms of
Australian currency to 14f p.c. for the year.
At the same rate of exchange a 12 p.c. sterl-
ing div. would be equivalent to 15J p.c. m
Commonwealth notes.
The £5 shares, which had been fairly
steady around £l2 on the market, dropped
to £lO in February, then rose sharply to
£l2 15s. in April, and eased to £ll ss. at
last week-end. The return at £ll ss. on a
12 p.c. div. basis is 5.3 p.c., or 6.8 p.c. in
sterling equivalent at the current rate of
exchange. The visible backing amounts to
£lO 3s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Obviously the market does not anticipate
that divs. will continue to be paid in sterling
equivalent. At balancing date provision was
made internally against the depreciation of
the Australian £. This has no special signi-
ficance, beyond further strengthening the
already substantial inner reserves. After
providing for contingencies and notwith-
standing a contraction of £927,613 in
advances, a growth of nearly £1,500,000 in
interest-bearing deposits and lighter exchange
earnings, gross profits (£1,661,676) were
only £6659 short of the previous year’s. It
was a spring of £52,011 in the tax bill
(£372,394) that was mainly responsible for
the slip of £62,099 in the declared net re-
sult; which was 13.6 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 15, 15.8, 16.3 and 16.3 p.c. back
to 1926. But there was £4,667,027 of re-
serves openly assisting the £4,500,000 of paid
capital at Oct. 31; on the two combined
the net result was 6-7 p.c., whereas 5.8 p.c.
is needed to cover a 12 p.c. div.
Trade conditions are reflected in balance-
sheet movements: —
Liabilities.
1925. 1929. 1930.
Notes .. .. £437,626 £434,329 £401,137
BiUs etc. . . 3,694,129 4,569,795 3,795,375
Deposits . . 28,708,674 34,414,798 34,232,584
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 11,180,726 10,914,862 11,502,509
Advances . . 25,393,633 34,314,960 33,387,347
Bills, etc. . . 4,339,651 3,362,670 2,576,109
Premises .. 79,306 278,373 400,257
The contraction in notes is on account of
the dulness in Maoriland. The fall in com-
modity prices' shows up in the lighter bills
figures, which mean smaller turnover in
exchange. The shrinkage in deposits was
entirely in current accounts, which mainly
comprise traders’ working capital. Though
the book value of advances was reduced
£927,613, they were 97.5 p.c. of the deposits
as against 93.1 p.c. two years ago. The
reconstruction of the Melbourne office added
£121,884 to the premises item, the present
market value of which is conservatively esti-
mated at over a million.
When the books closed the bank was
holding only £4 3s. lOd. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own.
Depositors and others could see 6s. of
every £1 coming to them in cash and
Government securities, etc., and there was
another Is. 4d. in bills receivable and re-
mittances in transit. Altogether it is a
very strong position.
The drift in the national finances and poli-
tical proposals with regard to the currency
make the outlook very uncertain.
Carlton Investments, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
, Dividends Re- De-
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 10,203 7 p.c. 6 p.c. = 9082 1121 185
1930.. 4,723 3J„ 4 „ „ 5239 701
In 1920 Carlton Hotel, Ltd., took a 43-years’
lease, including a license, of premises oppo-
site the Australia Hotel. For a while . it
looked as though the co. would hamstring
itself by handing out more than it could
afford. Then, following changes in the con-
trol, earnings improved, the freehold was
bought, and the div. was rushed up from
9 p.c. to 15 p.c. over the five years to Oct.
31, 1929. Thus encouraged, those in con-
trol decided that it would be a good thing
to link up a number of city hotel proper-
ties, so the present holding co. was formed
towards the close of 1928. ■
Paid capital is £139,728 m 09,501 fully-
paid 7 p.c. cum. profs, and 139,73.> ords.
paid t 0 10s. each. To represent the lot, to-
gether with £1579 coming to creditors and
a p. and 1. balance of £605 at Oct. 31 last,
there were 59,864 ords. (in at £119,728) m
the Carlton Hotel and 10,000 ords. (m at
£20,000) in the Eneber Investment Co.,
which is also interested in hotel properties,
and £879 of cash. Preliminary exes., not
treated as an asset herein, figured at £loUb.
Thus each 20s. share in the operating cos.
was exchanged for paper in the holding co.
with a face value of 60s. paid to 40s.—one
prof, and two ords.; 10s. is callable on each
of the latter. A similar offer was made for
the ords. in Usher’s Hotel, but nothing came
of it. .
In its first year the holding co. received
£10,479 in divs. That was enough to pay a
handful of exes., satisfy the pref. require-
ments, give the ords. 6 p.c. and leave £ll2l
towards wiping out preliminary exes. East
year the operating cos. passed their div.;
the £5240 that came in was in respect of
1929 earnings. Yet an interim at the rate
of 8 p.c. p.a. was handed to the ords., which,
together with half a meal for the prefs.,
took £516 more than was netted. To pay
its own pref. div. and 5 p.c. on its paid-up
ord. capital, the co. needs to receive an aggre-
gate of 12 p.c. on the face value of its
holdings.
The Eneber co., which has a paid capital
of £lO,OOO, netted £1269 last year as against
£1738 in 1929. For the corresponding
periods Carlton Hotel’s profits were £5727
and £13,172 respectively; its paid capital
is £BO,OOO, of which £20,000 is in 8 p.c.
cum. prefs., which come in front of those
of the holding co. Together/ the operating
cos. thus showed 7.7 p.c. on their combined
ord. capital last year, or a trifle more than
enough to cover the holding co.’s pref. re-
quirements. Conditions have become vastly
more difficult since the close of accounts.
Moreover, Carlton Hotel had piled up a
debt of £155,184 at Oct. 31, largely to the
bank for the purchase of the freehold. Assets
were all lumped in one untidy entry at
£277,311. Should the bank want its money
in a hurry ord. shareholders in the holding
co. might have to be asked for more to pro-
tect their investment. Mortgages are diffi-
cult to arrange these days, especially in
N. S. Wales.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
(— —Dividends——To Re- De-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, ficit.
£££ ' £
1920.. 11,392 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 9133 2259 468
1921.. 10,614 8 „ 15 „ 9660 f
Staff bonus .. ..£lOOO ) ~ 004
1922.. 6,085 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 6440 859
Reserves.
1923.. 13,237 8 „ 10 „ 8910) 9 7nq
Staff bonus .. .. £765 ) ° 562 2,703
Property reserve, £17,641.. .. 20,344
1924.. 13,686 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 9160 1 oco«s?o
Staff bonus, .. ..£lOOO 1 352 b
1925.. 20,789 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 9616) qqoo oq vqo
Staff bonus .. ..£1250 ) 992233,702
1926.. 1.8,935 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 11,563 1 612 2 39,914
Staff bonus .. ..£12o0)
1927.. 12,247 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 13,459 38,702
1928.. 10,262 8 „ 8 „ 11,472 37,492
Trade-marks, etc., £55 .. •• 37,437
1929.. 8,436 8 p.c. Nil 3,200 5236 42,673
Trade-marks, etc., £lO ... ■ • 42,663
1930.. 4,524 Nil Nil 4524 47,187
Written off investments, etc., £10,262.. 36,925
In order to liven output at the producing
end, and buy a number of licensed premises,
this co, gathered £83,398 of fresh capital
and added £42,752 net to the outside debt
during the decade to the close of accounts in
1929. Earnings reached their peak in 1925,
the year following the one in which the
Federal Government granted the industry
a bounty of 4s. per gallon.
Thus, while local consumption remained
fairly steady at less than a gallon per head
of population, production continued to in-
crease. Meanwhile the export bounty was
reduced to Is. With the price to the grower
fixed for grapes costs were stubborn;
thus it has become difficult to saueeze any
profit at all out of the export trade, and,
locally, stocks accumulated and broke down
prices.
Last year the bounty was lifted to Is. 9d.,
but the gain from this source was more
than offset by an increase of 100 per cent,
in the duty on fortifying spirit; also com-
petition prevented the co. from passing on
the sales tax. The slip in gross profits
(£42,991) was £4642; exes. (£35,932) were
got back £1655. Thus, after paying the pre-
vious year’s tax bill (£2965) and including
£430 added to the reserve against licenses,
the net result was only £1324 in excess of the
pref. requirements. That is leaving out of
account £5262 struck off to cover losses by
Buchanans, the co.’s Queensland subsidiary,
and another £5OOO specially reserved against
the book value of the parent’s investment in
the pup. Altogether reserves were bitten
into for £5738; they include £26,486 which
the board has set aside against the bonus
value of licenses, most of which were
acquired with the freehold and leasehold pur-
chases in 1924. The size of the debt and
(Wild Cat continued on page 16.)


m
x
■*
Mm
* 1
6d.
9
buys
of the famous
De ReszKe Virginias
so you can now
smoKe De Reszkes
every day
‘Corß* and ‘lvory*- tipped
ORIGINAL IMPORTED QUALITY GUARANTEED BY GODFREY PHILLIPS
(AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY, LTD.


The Savings Bank
Suspension.
On April 23 the Government
Savings Bank of N.S.W. sus-
pended payments.
Are any of the other banks
likely to do the same?
Can this drift in the public
accounts be stopped?
Is inflation inevitable; if 'so,
who would suffer most from it?
Which companies are likely to
come through with the best
results?
These, and many other prob-
lems of vital interest, are dis-
cussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR MAY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEli ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
# * * *
The non-corrosive qualities of Pioneer Wood Pip?
make it an ideal conduit for the conveyance of any
type of fluid, for the strongest acids or alkalies will
not harm it. For water supply it is to be highly
recommended, for it maintains constant purity of
the supply. Durable, light, easy and cheap to handle,
lay, freight, and transport, there is much to recom-
mend this modern conduit to those responsible for
the specification of pipe lines for any purpose. Illus-
trated literature is available from the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscrav, Vic-
toria.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
MORE COMFORT
—AT LESS COST!
e
Every facility for en-
joyable living at low
cost. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. 300
rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Hot and cold
water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all
doors Fire - proof
throughout. Cour-
teous service? £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
Crosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 ho Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fusa
Detonators '
Cartridges
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. liyan, Esq.
¥. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.U.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geenral banking buisness.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN DOOR-OPERATING
SYSTEM.
'T’HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 5772/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN FLUID-PRESSURE
ENGINE.
r T'HE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 7548/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its right in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Commou-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
the doubtful outlook in the industry pre-
cluded payment of a div.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it: —
1Q99 TQ9fi TQ9Q IQSf)
Paid capital.. £80,500 £125,000 £143,398 £143,398
Deposits . . 12,820 21,358 29,198 25,803
Mortgages, etc. . 35,543 19,687 19,374
Overdraft . . 24,855 20,190 24,543 34,264
Other liabilities 15,631 29,966 22,660 9,183
Properties, plant,
etc. .. 45,773 151,795 162,309 170,031
Book debts .. 28,449 64,183 49,459 33,868
Stock . . 65,469 50,497 50,311 48,960
Cash, etc. . . 551 3,621 2,781 2,188
Shares in other
cos. .. 13,233 18,900 18,900
During the year £13,477 was snipped off the
amount coining to sundry creditors, but
£9721 was added to the overdraft. The finan-
cial position slipped £10,067; liabilities ex-
ceeding the more or less liquids by £3608 at
the close of accounts.
On the market the ords. at 14s. failed to
attract buyers • before publication of the
accounts. The book value of the backing is
275. Id. in net assets, including the bonus
reserve. The cover for the prefs. is
£4 10s. 2d. in net assets. They carry a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. with priority as to capital,
but have not an active market.
Shamrock Brewing and Malting (Melb.)
Net To-Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 9,852 11 p.c. = 8,638 1214 20,653
1922.. 10,408 13 „ „ 10,208 200 20,853
1923.. 10,660 14.6 „ „ 11,484 20,029
1924.. 12,808 14.6 „ „ 11,484 1324 21,353
1925.. 13,222 14.6 „ „ 11,484 1738 23,091
1926.. 15,665 17 „ „ 13,349 2316 25,407
1927.. 15,792 17 „ „ 13,349 2443 27,850
1928.. 15,688 17 „ „ 13,349 2339 30,189
1929.. 16,106 17 „ „ 13,349 2757 32,946
1930.. 9,775 12 „ „ 9,423 352 33,298
This is one of the holding cos. through which
the public is interested in Carlton and
United Breweries. Of the operating co.’s
1.950,000 £1 shares, Shamrock owns 83,409
—10,549 prefs. and 72,500 ords. —which
figure in the books at £84,780 (cost). At
Dec. 31 other assets were a solitary hotel
freehold, £4553 ; advances, cash, etc., £28,046 ;
and £2OOO coming from the old Collingwood
brewery, sold in 1917. It was one of the
properties not wanted when the combine was
formed 24 years ago, and the depreciation in
its value —it was not worth cost for any
other purpose—represents part of the good-
will in the 72,500 C.U.B. shares originally
handed to this co.
Returns from the co.’s investments have
been as follows :
C.U.B. Interest, C.U.B. Interest,
Dividends. etc. Dividends. etc.
1919.. £5,822 £1241 I 1925.. £12,950 £llO2
1920.. 7,997 1312 | 1926.. 15,027 1364
1921.. 9,157 1340 1927.. 15,027 1560
1922.. 10,009 1236 1928.. 15,027 1587
1923.. 11,912 1356 | 1929.. 15,027 1960
1924.. 12,431 1269 | 1930.. 10,874 2262
C.U.8., which paid a regular 174 p.c. for
the four years to Dec. 31, 1929, dropped its
distribution to 124 p.c. last year; thus
£4153 less was received in divs. Interest,
etc., brought in an extra £302. Exes.
(£3361) were £2480 heavier, due to taxation
(£2700) ; hence, the net result was 12.4 p.c-.
on the £78,252 of capital as against
20.5 p.c. in 1929, and 5 points were chipped
off the div., reducing it to 12 p.c.
For the 12 months to June 30, 1930,
C.U.B. netted 17 p.c. on its capital as against
21.6, 22.8, 22.5 and 21 p.c. back to 1926.
The more or less liquid surplus was no less
than £1,269,362. It bought a number of
hotel freeholds, thus adding £198,221 to the
book value of that item (£587,317), and
debtors’ balances (£971,599) increased by
£117,528; it is the way breweries have of
ensuring a satisfactory turnover. Neverthe-
less, the trend of rentals and property values
is still downwards, the debts problem has
become perplexing, competition from the
Richmond Brewery has sharpened, unem-
ployment has increased, the taxation bill has
grown prodigiously and probably not yet
reached its limit, while the drift in the
national finances further obscures the out-
look.
The market expresses its doubts by coming
back to 30s. for Shamrock’s pound shares.
The return at that price is 8 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis, or 6.7 p.c. if the div. drops to
10 p.c. Including the co.’s proportion of
C.U.B.’s reserves (14s. Id.), the .backing
amounts to 425. 6d. in net assets.
Oil Search, Ltd.
Oil Search, Ltd., a prospecting co. formed
by Oriomo Oil, Ltd., in 1928, has done a
lot of spade work in the Matapau area, New
Guinea, in the Wooramel River basis, West-
ralia, the Mt. Gambier district, S. Aus., and
in Western Queensland. Presently a sub-
sidiary is to be formed to put down a test
bore bn Knight’s Dome, alongside the Mt.
Gambier-Beachport railway line. This struc-
ture, says Dr. Woolnough, would certainly
be tested if encountered in the IJ.S.A. Dr.
Keith Ward, the S. Aus. director of mines,
also considers the site a favorable one.
The co.’s own geologists, If. B. W. Talbot
and R. 11. Hobson, have reported favorably
on oil prospects in the Wooramel basin.
What further gteps, if any, are to be taken
here will not be decided until a report is
received from P. Hossfeld, deputy to the
Federal Government geologist, who also
examined the area.
At Matapau the co, has a half interest
with Mandated Development in an option
over 1000 sq. miles, including the seepages
at Wakip Creek, where nine scout bores
were sunk and light flows of oil were
obtained from seven of them. Thus en-
couraged, the co. engaged G. A. V. Stanley
to make a geological survey of some 300
sq. miles in the neighborhood. This work,
which has been completed, won high praise
from Woolnough, and a reconnaissance of
selected areas is now being made to enable
more definite conclusions to be formed.
Thus far results have been very encourag-
ing. The co. has been going the right way
about things.
Shareholders are, nevertheless, anxious to
hear from the co. concerning its activities
in Western Queensland.
The Electrolytic Zinc Co.’s stocks of
metal, which threatened to cause embarrass-
ment, are being worked down. The co. is
now turning out leaded-zinc, which is much
preferred by galvanisers to distilled zinc or
spelter. A good market for the new product
is being obtained in Japan. The world pro-
duction of zinc in 1930 was 1,410,000 tons,
about the same as for 1929. Australian
production was 56,000 tons; United States,
457,000; Belgium, 187,000 ; Poland, 174,500 ;
Canada, 108,900 tons. Stocks of zinc at the
end of 1928 were 71,700 tons; at the end
of 1930, 228.700 tons —there had been a
marked drop in consumption.
■-1= * * *
Mt. Morgan Gold Recoveries, N.L., has
been formed to take over from Mt. Morgan,
Ltd., its 10-year tribute of the old mine,
acquired by that co. a couple of years
ago. Capital is £BO,OOO in 4s. shares, of
which 25,000 are offered, a shilling on appli-
cation and 6d. calls. The co. is to divide
profits up to £4OOO a month with Mt. Morgan,
Ltd.; after that a royalty of 2s. 9d. a ton is
payable. There is no cash consideration.
A. A. Boyd, who used to be general manager
of the old Mt. Morgan Gold Mining Co., is
managing director of the new concern. He
figures that, on a minimum output of 500
tons a day, production costs would be 378.8
shillings per ton of concentrates. At present
prices this should leave a profit of 75.9
shillings per ton of concentrates, or 4.7
shillings per ton of quarried ore. With
exchange as it is, and the bonus at 6s. Bd.
an ounce, the profit per ton of ore should
be 13.4 shillings. Rehabilitation of the
old workings is expected to cost £19,567,
and development and other work is exnected
to take another £21,229 before maximum out-
put is reached. This is put at six months
from the date operations begin.
;Jc Jjs $ 'J S
Cliff Rutledge, general manager of the
State Smelters at Chillagoe (Q.), is finding
it. difficult to keep down the losses on the
copper furnace owing to the low price of
the metal. Recently he went out to Clon-
curry to ginger up production, and the dis-
trict is now sending nearly 2000 tons of
high-grade ore monthly. He has also be-
seeched those at Herberton and Silver Valley
to put their best leg forward. Minister
Atherton is on his way to Chillagoe to tell
the miners and others that should supplies
fall below a fixed minimum tonnage, the fur-
nace may have to close down. Under exist-
ing conditions losses are inevitable; but if
Rutledge can show that they are less than
the cost of the dole, about 1200 men may
be kept in employment.
* * * *
Geologist C. C. Morton’s inspection of the
North Arm goldfield (Q.) confirms the exist-
ence of a number of distinct reefs, and there
is reason to susptect that there are others
not yet discovered. Those found are pei’-
sistent, but it is disappointing to learn that
the Golden Surprise is only 6in. wide so
far. It has averaged just over 3oz. fine gold
per ton. A trial crushing from the Coolum
reef also gave over 3oz. Here the bullion
evidently has a high silver content, being-
worth only 325. 6d. an ounce. It will be
some time before the real value of the field
can be determined.
* * a* *
New Guinea Developments, one of the
earlier flotations on the Morobe field, has
announced that the Canadian interests which
took an option over the co.’s holdings have
relinquished it. Since the co. is not too
well fixed financially, work on the leases
has been suspended, and the manager, E.
Balls, has been summoned to Sydney. The
board intends to shortly round up share-
holders and go into the situation.
ifc * * *
Despite early assurances that everything
was working according to schedule, Wiluna
(W.A.) has met with difficulties in the tube-
mills and fine-grinding section. The power-
engines in the electrical generating plant are
said to be unable to deal with the full ton-
nage. Steps have been taken to remedy
the defects, which are expected to be over-
come by the end of July. Other sections of
the treatment plant are reported to be equal
to or above required capacity. It is ex-
pected that estimated average values and
working costs will be realised when the
adjustment stage is passed, and the full feed
of 40,000 tons of ore monthly is being
treated. In April 18,025 tons were treated
for £19,133 worth of bullion. About £7260
worth of gold was absorbed by the plant.
This absorption should, of course, decrease
as the machines settle down to the job, and
ought to ultimately cease.
❖ * ❖ ❖
Westralian shareholders in Kimberley Oil
Option’s gold show at Edjudina are dis-
satisfied with the policy of the board, which
resides in Adelaide. They consider that if
operations, which are confined to the south
end of the co.’s area, were extended to the
northern portion better results would follow.
Those who thought that the show would be
flooded out at 25ft. have been disappointed ;
work is proceeding without difficulty, so far
as water is concerned, on the 100 ft. level.
* * *
There is talk of North and South Kalgurli
amalgamating. North recently increased its
ore reserves, while South’s are running out.
The grade of North’s ore is about the same
as that of the South’s, whose plant could
deal with the total output of the two mines.
Amalgamation might prove to be a satisfac-
tory way out.
Rhodesian Broken Hill, the S. African
electrolytic zinc concern in which many Aus-
tralians are interested, has suspended mining
operations and will treat dump ore until
metal prices improve. Recent output was at
the rate of about 1250 tons of zinc monthly.
The co. has given a lot of attention to the
recovery of vanadium, and in March last
30 tons of vanadium oxide, 95 p.c. pure, and
worth about £240 a ton, were won. The
plant has an annual capacity of 600 tons
oxide. R, 11. Stevens, who used to be chief
metallurgist for the Electrolytic Zinc iCo., is
general manager.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) What-is the nominal and subscribed
capital of the Australian and N. Z. Bank-
ing Corporation? (2) What are shares paid
to? (3) How much did the co. pay for
Stanton House, Sydney? (4) When are
operations likely to commence? (5) Is the
liability of N.Z. shareholders the same as
Australian ? —3858.
(1) Nominal, £5,000,000 in £1 shares.
Subscribed or underwritten, between
£400,000 and £500,000. (2) Varying
amounts; ss. per share was payable on appli-
cation. (3) Less than £150,000; co. took
over first and second mortgages, little cash
being involved. (4) Still uncertain. (5)
Exactly.
~tyhy do Australian assurance offices con-
tinue to charge premiums so greatly in excess
of present requirements, basing their charges
on a life-expectation table 60 years old and
calculating interest at 3 or 31 p.c.? —3314.
At least one Australian office asked itself
that question, and answered it by cutting
down its premium rates severely. Bonuses
fell away, of course—and business soon fell
away, too. It was, in short, found that good
bonuses make better sales talk than low
premiums. For many years past the “Wild
Cat” lias impressed on intending insurers
the necessity for finding out the net cost
of insurance in the competing cos. —that is,
premium less average bonus.
(1) Why is the German mark practically
the same value as before the war? (2) Why
is the French franc 124.21 to the £1 as
against 25.225 before the war, notwiihstand-
ing that France has the second largest gold
holding in the world? (3) Why has the
Australian £1 deteriorated so much when
we have so far paid interest on borrowed
money ? —3104.
(1) Because the inflated German currency
was wiped out, and a new currency intro-
duced on a gold basis. (2) Because France
inflated after the war and eventually stabil-
ised the franc at 124.21 in 1928. From that
point the gold holdings of the Bank of France
increased from 40 millions to the present
figure. (3) The rate of Australian exchange
on London is governed by the balance of
trade and the availability of funds in Lon-
don. The present rate is largely due to the
flight of capital from Australia, causing a
shortage of credit in London.
What is the difference, if any, between
borrowing and inflation? —3277.
Australia’s borrowing for many years nast
has been inflation, but the fact has beeD
hidden because we had enough new loan
money abroad to enable us to balance; as
soon as those new loans stopped, exchange
swung against us, and our £ became worth
15s. English or thereabouts. On the other
hand, we might borrow without inflating by
seeing that we got a full 20s. worth for every
£ of borrowed money spent. Inflation is
the result of any process by which the
nominal value exceeds the real value —it may
be by the excessive issue of currency notes
or it may be by borrowing money extrava-
gantly and spending it unwisely.
(1) Is an English £5 note really worth
more in Australia than an Australian £5 note?
(2) Most trading payments between English
and Australian firms are “cross entries,”
little actual cash passing. llow would such
business, not involving actual transmission
of money, be affected by the exchange rate?
—3319.
(1) The Australian £5 note is, of course,
worth £5 in Australia, where, the English
£5 is worth £6 10s. In England the Aus-
tralian £5 note is worth about £3 16s. 6d.
(2) In practice no money is sent. For pay-
ments overseas the only money is gold, and
you couldn’t get sovereigns to ship. If you
could buy gold you would have to pay the
current 30 to 32 p.c. premium for it.
(1) Why is it that money is' apparently
of more value than goods? (2) Why do
financial institutions (dealers in the medium
of exchange ) pay high dividends and have
such large reserves while companies engaged
in production of national wealth are hgrd
pressed to maintain an even keel? —3082.
(1) Money is merely a measure of value.
Owing to the prolonged and the heavy fall
in world prices, its purchasing power (par-
ticularly of gold) has greatly increased. In
the post-war and other booms the position
was reversed. (2) Banks do not pay big
dividends in relation to shareholders’ funds.
In fact, the reserves quoted, built up
out of profits when small divs. were being
paid, and, in some cases, partly out of special
levies from shareholders called “premiums,”
largely explain the rate of divs. now declared.
The fact that the banks have large reserves
at the present time is something to be thank-
ful for.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.A.M.: A gamble; and the possible
prizes don’t match the risks. Lang Shy: Yes.
“Guaranteed by the Government of N. S. Wales”
means a lot more than “Guaranteed by Lang”....
T.L.P.8.; The chairman can withhold the informa-
tion; though, if the co.’s articles run in the usual
way, the shareholders could change the chairman.
... . Y.F.Y.: Don’t throw your money away. ...
R.S.C.: (1) Yes. (2) Nothing doing. (3) See
“Service Department.” (4) Too uncertain to advise.
. ...J.M.; Neither Wales nor City of Sydney closed
their doors in ’93. Of London-managed banks the
’Asia and Union remained open. . . .S.J.: Ro3 r al Mint,
Melbourne; Electrolytic R. and S. Co., Port Kembla
(N.S.W.) ; Garrett and Davidson, Regent-street,
Sydney.


not even a shameless Government, cares
to go on the market for loans to replace
plain deficits; and in any case the market
will rarely respond. Therefore the usual
practice is for Governments to provide for
deficits out of short loans, hoping that
something will turn up that they may pay
those loans off. But nothing has been
turning up in Australia for years past ex-
cept other deficits; wherefore Australian
Governments have been steadily draining
their banks. No less than 65 millions has
been got from them in this way—with
tragic results in the case of one savings
bank.
In such circumstances borrowing in
London is out of the question. Who would
insure a ship in distress into whose hull
the owners were visibly and unashamedly
drilling holes? Yet if money cannot be
borrowed there, one •of two things must
happen—shipment of gold or default.
Which is it to be?
This paper agrees with the chairman of
the Commonwealth Bank: rather shipment
than default. But if the shipment is forced
upon' us, let the responsibility for it be
well established beforehand. Let it be
clearly and definitely understood that
Scullin and Theodore and Brennan are
wholly and solely responsible for it and all
its consequences.
4.
The Speck Speaks.
The McPhee Government was without a
party majority in the last Tas. Assembly.
There were 15 Nationalist members, 14
Laborites and an Independent, B. J. Pear-
sall, and with a Nationalist in the Speaker’s
chair the Government was never free from
anxiety about Pearsall’s vote, although, to
do him justice, he never embarrassed it
unduly, in the next Assembly McPhee will
have his party majority. Pearsall’s position
(he was one of the Franklin six) looked
hopeless at the end of the first count, and
his seat may go either to a Nationalist or to
Ben Watkins, who gave up the deputy-
leadership of the Labor party a fortnight
before the election and came out as a free-
lance. Labor has also lost a seat in Darwin,
another in Denison, another in Wilmot
(apparently to Atkinson, sometime of the
Bruce Ministry, from whom Lyons took
the Wilmot Federal seat), and probably
another in Bass. In all five electorates its
vote fell heavily compared with 1928.
McPhee’s is the only Australian Govern-
ment which has survived an appeal to the
constituencies during the slump. It has kept
its head in trying times, and has not spared
itself or its pocket; still, the indications are
that the electors did not admire it so
much as they disliked and distrusted the
other side. The sketchy and impulsive
Ogilvie is far from inspiring the confidence
that Lyons commanded. Like Lang, he had
a plan for wringing a forced loan from the
insurance companies, though some of them
would very likely have given up their Tas-
manian business rather than submit; and
he brought Theodore across the Strait to
hold forth on the fiduciary-notes scheme.
This was the immediate cause of Watkins’s
retirement from the deputy-leadership;
Watkins said he would have nothing to do
with Theodore or his precious scheme. In
no way abashed, Ogilvie declared that the
fiduciary-notes proposal was the real issue
of the campaign. Tasmania has given him
his answer, and Theodore, too. It has pro-
nounced a judgment that Australia will
thunderously endorse if it gets the oppor-
tunity this year.
4_
Have We Gone to the Pack?
Lately the daily papers have reported a
shocking number of criminal assaults upon
females. In many cases, it is true, the
woman—often a mere girl—has! contributed
to the offence; but no imprudence of hers
justifies the crime. The female’s contribu-
tion only adds another cause for regret,
another evil for the reformer to grapple
with.
Too often nobody is brought to book;
when the case is clear the Judge generally
seeks by a severe sentence to repress the
evil. That, of course, is the right course
to pursue so far as the Bench is concerned;
but what we ought to seek is to prevent
rather than to repress. And, to prevent, we
must first discover the causes.
We have been passing through a period
of apparent prosperity, fictitious, but none
the less dazzling on that account. Is it not
a fact that during this time our moral
standards have gone to pieces? Is it not a
fact that money and financial success have
been lifted so high that honesty and most
of the other cottage virtues have been
eclipsed? Even in the command of Labor
bodies, where once were - the finest aspira-
tions, the whole struggle has been directed
to the gain of a few pence in pay or the
reduction of a few minutes in working
hours.
And in the so-called higher politics the
case is even worse. As a nation we have
fallen into great difficulties through our own
shortcomings. How do our leaders advise
us to face our troubles? By repudiation,
by default! By practices which in our
private lives and in our soberer days we
should have regarded it as an insult to be
even asked to consider.
At the same time the rights of others have
been thrown more and more into the dis-
card : more and more we have been training
ourselves and our children that “they
should take who have the power and they
should keep who can.” So we have de-
veloped a truculence and a disregard for the
comfort and convenience of others, and to
this the conduct of Parliament has con-
tributed, though that conduct is no doubt
mainly the reflection of surrounding con-
ditions.
We hear a good deal about the main-
tenance of our standard of living. The idea
is that it has been raised enormously during
the past few years. All the evidences are
that it has been enormously low r ered.
We have allowed individual and personal
responsibility to be overthrown, its place
being taken by the mob; and the mob is
nearly always governed by its worst
elements. We shall have to get back. This
is not a matter merely of work and wages:
it becomes a matter in the end even of the
safety of our women.
♦—
A New Defamation Bill.
The N. S. Wales Attorney-General has
prepared a bill which among other things
provides for the criminal prosecution of
journalists who “defame public men” or
“discredit public institutions.”
No newspaper worth worrying about
wants to discuss the way Mr. Lang runs his
estate agency, or to dig into his domestic
life; and reflections on Mr. Lysaght’s con-
duct of his law business are of no interest
whatever to the great public journal.
Neither writer nor speaker has, in any case,
any more license to defame a public man
than he has to libel any other man. Already
the public man has, therefore, exactly the
same protection as every other man.
And there is not one atom of reason why
he should have more. Indeed, if there
is to be any difference it ought to be in
giving the greater protection to the private
individual, whose personal conduct can have
much less far-reaching consequences than
the personal conduct of the public man.
So far as the latter’s public life is con-
cerned, he challenges criticism; and if he
persists in wrong, national disaster may
follow. Moreover, his political life depends
upon his ability to persuade a majority in
his favor; and, since persuasion may come
from lying as well as from truth, the public
safety demands that both press and platform
shall have freedom to mercilessly dissect
his deeds and words.
Eighteen months ago Theodore promised
the Northern miners that they would be
back at work within a fortnight without less
of pay or privileges if he and his colleagues
were returned. It was a promise incapable
of fulfilment, and, of course, it was not
fulfilled. Should the
press have been
stopped from saying
so? Should a journal-
ist have been crimin-
ally prosecuted for
attempting to prevent
Theodore from win-
ning the election by
false promises, by
false representations?
Should it be criminal
defamation of Lang
to point out that he
won his last election
by virtuously de-
nouncing repudiation
and promising to
have nothing to
do with it, yet within
a few months delib-
erately defaulted on
his payments to Bri-
tain, while meeting
the payments to
America?
And then there is
the matter of punish-
ment for “discredit-
ing public institu-
tions.” For 25 years
The Bulletin has
been discrediting the
public institution of
Parliament as con-
stituted by the party
machines. It has de-
clared a thousand
times that the Par-
liaments of Australia
were laying the foun-
dations for the great-
est calamity which
ever befel this conti-
nent; that Ministers
were buying office
and members were
buying seats with
loan money; that
this loan money was
in consequence being
wasted by the tens of
millions; and that a
time would inevita-
bly come when, if the
corrupt practice was
not stopped, the
country would stag-
ger under the weight
of the interest bill
and of the swollen
public service. Who
was discrediting our
public institutions —
this paper, or the
political systems and
practices which it de-
nounced ; this paper,
or the politicians
whom it tried for so
long to turn' from
their evil courses?
Brisbane’s New Bosses.
The Greater Brisbane City Council elec-
tions have some interest as an indication of
political feeling in southern Queensland,
for the municipality, the largest in the
world, embraces centres far removed from
the actual metropolis. The present election
is the third, and differs in some important
respects from its predecessors. The first two
were held on adult suffrage, and, to the
surprise of many in a State for years under
the control of an extreme Labor party, both
resulted in the election of a powerful anti-
Labor majority. When the Moore Ministry
came into office the corporation’s constitu-
tion was amended by legislation which sub-
mitted a ratepayer franchise, reduced the
numbers of the council to 20 and pro-
vided that the Mayor, hitherto elected by
the voters, should in future be appointed
by the aldermen.
The latest election, fought on what is
usually considered a conservative franchise,
has resulted in the Labor party winning two
seats, thus increasing its numbers from
six in 1928 to eight. On the other hand, the
Nationalists have been reduced from 15 to
2. But the losses are due not so much
to the Labor gain as to the splitting
of the vote by two new anti-Labor parties,
Civic Reform and Progressive, the first
having seven members in the council and
the second three, a total of 12 anti-Labor-
ites. Provided these can be relied on to
maintain a common policy against the
opposition, Brisbane should not suffer. Ex-
perience in Sydney and elsewhere suggests,
however, that a well-organised minority can
offer effective opposition to a majority
divided against itself.
♦
May Day in Moscow.
The greatest military display on May Day
took place in Moscow, where 50,000 troops
strode through the streets with anti-aircraft
guns, machine guns, tanks and other threats
and implements of slaughter. Russia has
the largest compulsory army in the world
(about 800,000 strong), but it is understood
to be solely for defence against the lurking
and envious “capitalist.”
The pose that Soviet Land, armed to the
teeth with guns and sin, is a damaged
lamb and a downtrodden but gushing child
of Nature, is overdone. In the official
“Soviet Union Year-Book” it is explained
that the Constitution was fixed up on
July 6, 1923, “at a meeting of the Central
Executive Committee of the U.S.S.R.”;
there was nothing at all about it like Par-
liamentary consent, or a referendum, or
any such democratic nonsense. “Whitaker’s
Almanack” for 1931, in its chapter on Soviet
Russia, sums up the case thus: “The Soviet
Government, although composed of people
indirectly elected by the masses, cannot be
called representative because no provision
is made for an Opposition.” Which is
simple and true. To oppose is to be
“counter-revolutionary,” and “counter-revo-
lutionists” are put on trial and jugged.
The aristocrats of Soviet Russia are the
Communists, a sleek and prosperous crowd
whose success excites their squalid name-
sakes elsewhere to a fever of envy. They
and no others have the use of secondary
schools and universities, the primary schools
being good enough for the common herd.
In the rural districts, where nothing mat-
ters much and the village pedagogue is paid
(or owed) £2 a month, Communists aren’t
grown—only tame animals who will take
instructions from Communists. The privi-
leged caste supplies almost the entire mem-
bership of the Congress of Soviets—the big
bug among the welter of institutions, and
the one that matters. If the bucolic multi-
tude elects “counter-revolutionaries,” they
are disqualified out of sight. The Com-
munist Government possesses almost all the
printing-presses, and controls the issue of
books and newspapers, and furnishes news
and ready-made public opinion, including
the opinion of the picture show.
The Union of Socialist Soviet Republics
has the elements and earmarks of the com-
mon oligarchy, this despite its new freaks,
and its new faith, and its new revelation, and
the rest of the fuss. The first essential or
earmark of an oligarchy is the privileged
and ruling class. The second is the army,
which should be so managed as to protect
and maintain the interests of the ruling
class. The third is the great muddy multi-
tude, which should be kept in order by the
army, and taught by the schoolmaster (at
£2 a month in arrears) that his lot is happy
and blessed. The oligarchy is a handy mode
of government. Where there is only one
autocrat or boss monstrosity, his life is
precarious; where there are Thirty Tyrants,
as once happened in Athens, it is dashed bad
luck if one isn’t awake to give the alarm
when a scalping party crawls in by the
window at night. And any kind of oligarfehy
can call itself a republic and defy all and
sundry to prove the contrary. An oligarchy
is a republic with a restricted franchise,
and in practice, though not in theory, the
Russian franchise is restricted enough to
satisfy anybody.
PROTECTING HIS REPUTATION.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (com. Saturday) “The Love Race”
Criterion “The Spot on the Sun”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
T ( “The Pirates of Penzance”
RoYjiL , 1 “Trial by Jury”
Comedy “Loyalties”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Birth of an Australian Talkie
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes: —
The Dramatic Critic said, take a morning
off and come and see the accouchement of
the Australian talking-film industry. I said,
see wdio? He said, the event is taking place
down at His Majesty’s Theatre—yon know,
the grand old home of Italian opera, Ameri-
can musical comedy and other forms of Aus-
tralian entertainment which burst info
flames a year or so ago when somebody whis-
THRING, who leads
the gang and talkie
enterprise depicted on
this page.
pered in its ear the
news of the tri-
umph of the talkies.
I said, goodo, it
can’t be worse than
the other nrevailing
forms of the Depres-
sion. So we went.
Well, when we
got to Exhibition-
street we found a
crowd standing
around outside the
stage door just as
in the old days
when the legitimate
theatre was flour-
ishing, and yet
sometiow they were
different. I mean,
those that didn't
look like Clara
Bow or Greta
Garbo looked like
Ronnie Colman,
subtly modified, as
the D.C. said, by
the Australian cli-
mate.
Whenever the
D.C. caught the eye of any one of
them he bowed and went to lift his
hat and then remembered that he didn’t wear
one. I said, who are they? He said, I don’t
know but it is best to be on the safe side
because one never knows what designs Mr.
Thring may have on the Australian public
and you never can tell, that blonde over there
may some day be the fIOOO-a-week darling
of the Australian picture-going public, though
you wouldn’t think it possible, would you ?
I said, who is Mr. Thring? He said, Mr.
Thring is the head midwife, he is a real two-
cigar he-man and he is prepared to lose
£30,000 a year for three years to make real
honest-to-goodness Australian talkies; and a
lot of people in the American picture busi-
ness hope he’ll do it. And he said, that’s
Mr. Thring over there, the man with the air
of cold detachment which one sees in all
professional theatre men. They get it, he
said, through having to judge the legs of
aspirants to the chorus not on their personal
appeal but on their appeal to the baldheads
in the front stalls and it takes them years
to do it. .
Well, w r e weren’t allowed to go into what
the D.C. called the lying-in hospital because
they were shooting, so we had a look at the
auditorium. Well, it seems it is still in
ruins and the rain pours through the roofless
ceiling and it stares at the stage for all the
world like a country playgoer with his mouth
open, so Mr. Thring decided it was just the
place for his proposed attempt to put Aus-
tralia on the screen, because it was so sym-
bolical. The sight was too much for the
Dramatic Critic. - .
Well, having been provided with the pass-
word we passed through a b9^ door
found ourselves confronted with a spectacle
that baffled description. Well, I batted my
brains to remember
DANIEL
BLOOMBERG,
R.C.A. engineer, late
of N’York.
where I had seen
the place before and
then I suddenly re-
membered. I mean,
I had my tonsils
out once and ever
since I have had a
dream about it.
Well, we were in
a large padded cell
completely filled
with machinery. In
the ceiling hung a
number of suns, ail
dead at the moment
and half one side of
the cell was filled
with a switchboard
big euough for a
tramway power sta-
tion and there were
daddy longlegs spi-
ders walking over the
carpet and long steel
arms like Clutching
Hands creeping
silently overhead
and snakes galore
writhing about the
floor and more
snakes hanging from
the ceiling and to
give' you an idea
what the place was like, the D.C., who
once lived in the tropics, began to get
malarial rigors, it reminded him so of the
jungle.
Well, when our eyes got used to the
machinery we saw that there were human
beings with it. A girl and a man were
sitting on a cartload of real sand in front
of some rocks by Billy Coleman. Their lips
were pursed up to kiss and it appears that
kiss had started three weeks before at Port-
sda, because it appears that Efftee Film Pro-
ductions, Ltd., can’t take sound in the open
air yet. Well, a horn‘blew for silence and
the camera man began to shoot and then the
sound man found they -were kissing too near
the microphone and when they got that
right the lights man said there was a shadow
across the girl’s nose, so the director said,
start all over again. Well, an hour or so
afterwards they all got everything O.K. and
started shooting again but the sand was
damp and the girl sneezed so they started
all over again. Well, they got it all down
Director DIETRICH-DERRICK.
O.K. and were starting to pack up for the
day when somebody pointed out that they
had left out the roar of the ocean. Well,
they all started arguing as to the noise the
ocean makes and as they couldn’t agree they
appealed to Mr. Dietrich-Derrick, the direc-
tor, who is a Swede. He said, I leave it to
you, you ought to know your own ocean. Well,
would you believe it, every one of them had a
different notion about it and they were all
surf-bathers, every man jack of them.
Well, they came to a decision at last, and
were just going to shoot again when some-
body pointed out that the scene was sup-
posed to be not the ocean side of Portsea
but the bay side; so they had to start all
over again. Well, they found out at last
that if you rolled shot on a drum it was
exactly like the sea and they started again,
and then they found that on account of the
damp sand the hero and heroine had colds
in their noses, so the kiss was postponed till
the morning. What a film star needs most
of all is not passion but patience.
Well, it was all most interesting and in-
structive and everybody was most kind in
The innards of the Melbourne talkie
outbreak.
telling us just what was the secret of an
artistic talkie and they each had a different
opinion. Mr. Higgins, the photographer, and
Mr. Mills, the sound man, said it was per-
fect synchronisation, and Mr. Bloomberg, the
recording engineer, said it _ was up-to-date
machinery, and the electrician said it was
75,000 candle power, and Mr. Thring said it
was financial enterprise. Mr. Dietrich-
Derrick said it was intelligent direction be-
cause the director was really like the con-
ductor of a symphony orchestra, and that
all these other people were like the trombone
and the oboe and the second violins, they
only knew their own part, it was the direc-
tor alone who knew the whole composition.
The Dramatic Critic was too stunned to
say anything, but he showed me something
he had' written. It appears he had got an
idea for rewriting a scene from Shakspeare
as it would have been rehearsed for a talkie;
and this is his impression:
“O Romeo, Romeo ! Wherefore art thou
Romeo? Deny thy father and refuse thy
name”....
“I told the skirt that Mary Robinson was
no good of a stage name and so I says” ; ...
“O! Be some other name: What’s in a
name? That which we call a rose by any
other name”... .
“And so I suggested Goillie Goil and
believe me or not the jane got on the high
horse! and says”....
“Call me but love, and I’ll be new bap-
tised”....
“Lights!”
“Thou know’st the mask of night is on
my face. Else would a maiden blush bepaint
my cheek.’* . .
“Hello, hello, is that the Electricity
Commission? Fer ther luvermike, keep yer
blasted voltage steady, you’re spoiling every-
thing !”
“Lights! Lights!’
“O blessed, blessed night! I am afeared,
Being in night, all this is but a dream.”
“Lights!”
“ ’Tis almost morning; I would have thee
gone; And yet no further than a wanton’s
bird”....
“Yer can’t make a good picture without
money. Why, when I was at Hollywood”
“I would I were thy bird”
“We was shooting ‘Cimarron’ and we had
to go out 160 miles to Bakersfield, 5000
“Sweet, so would I : Yet I would kill thee
with much cherishing.”
“Sound crews, camera crews, writers’
staff, directors’ staff an’ all”
“Good-night, good-night! Parting is such
sweet”....
“And we calkerlated on shootin’ that
scene in the afternoon and bein’ back in
Hollywood by evening”....
“That I shall say good-niglit till it be
morrow”....
“And what happens? The far-famed Cali-
fornian climate falls down on us and it
rains”....
“Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy
breast”....
“And rains for seven days”....
“Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet
to rest.”
“At £7OOO a day, figure it out for yer-
self!”
“Hence will I to my ghostly father’s
cell, His help to crave, and my dear hap to
tell.”
“That’ll do, Miss Warne. Now we’ll do
the sound.”
Well, said the Dramatic Critic, what do
you think of it? I said, I don’t think it’s
a bit funny. Why, I expect that’s just the
way Shakspeare did rehearse “Romeo and
Juliet.” I think you’re merely prejudiced.
* * *
“The Spot on the Sun,” at Sydney Cri-
terion, is an hour or so of theatre in which
the acting is considerably more important
than the play. The comedy, by John Hast-
ings Turner, is one good act, the first, and
two others that range from so-so to boring.
There is a great deal of gas and the unin-
teresting spectacle of 50-year-olds in love.
Still, the piece is not wholly worthless.
There are good situations even in the bad
acts, and the casting, with one exception,
is capital.
The exception is Ethel Morrison. Or it
may be only that a dramatic critic can have
too much of a good thing. Miss Morrison,
cast in some matronly parts in plays wherein
the imported Edith Taliaferro was starred,
simply romped away with the bacon and
left the Taliaferro to play jacks with the
knuckle-bones. But ever since then Miss
Morrison has been served up in approxi-
mately the same sort of parts, and one has
seen so much of this matron of hers that
it would be a relief to have an inferior
actress making a mess of the job. Too much
of this probably very good thing makes it
impossible to overlook that Miss Morrison
elocutes rather strenuously, or that her
tragic poses are sham, or that her gestures
are conventional. She is an admirable
comedy actress, but one would like to see
her cast, for a change, as an Atlantic-con-
quering virgin or a bull-hide-armored
amazon.
Here she is Mrs. Patrick, a widow twice
removed, once by God and once by Divorce
Court. For seven months she has lived
and gambled in Monte Carlo on the money
of Barrington Woolfe (J. B. Rowe), a son
of Smyrna on the mother’s side, who wants
her to be his mistress or, that failing, his
wife. She is also pursued by Robert
Louden (Leslie Victor), an English gentle-
man, and, as presented, a stupid sort of
blighter, but—glory to old England and bad
cess to Smyrna!— not a cad. Her flat is
also haunted by her pious maid Holmes
(Dorothy Dunckley), the Baroness Ridler
(Ada Reeve), the Baroness’s gigolo (Roger
Barry) and one Baby Delaney, a sort of
charlatan in the courtesan trade (Dulcie
Cherry). Into this mostly cocktail-lieady
group bursts a telegram from Mrs. Pat-
rick’s hockey champion 18-year-old school-
girl daughter Mary (Mary Macgregor) an-
nouncing her imminent arrival. Much head-
pressing with forefinger of right hand.
Presto ! We will all pretend we are innocent
just for a day. (Sound of wheels going round
somewhere; possibly in dramatic critic’s
head.) Anyway, we so pretend, and Mary
(bless her innocent 18-year-old heart in this
blase world!) is completely sucked in. Un-
fortunately for our bright and original idea,
the caddish Barrington enjoys a change of
affections in Mary’s favor, and Mrs. Patrick
is eventually forced to risk losing her daugh-
ter’s love by spilling the beans. And Mary
loves her more and more and more.
In fairness to the play, it is a little better
than this bald exposure of its hoary innards
would suggest. The virtue lies in the few
clever situations and patches of smart dia-
logue. But the true saving grace is the
general acting. Ada Reeve’s representation
of the old gigolo-keeping Baroness is nothing-
lower than a superb piece of work. In
voice, make-up, dress, gesture, she is so
close to perfect that the difference doesn’t
matter. Present writer has been watching
Ada Reeve for many years now, and he has
never seen her do better. She offers, for
those who seek it, the best lesson in acting
seen in Sydney since the last evangelist
mission. For second place it is a straight
toss-up between Miss Macgregor and J. B.
A kiss that started three weeks before.
Rowe; the King, being an English gentle-
man, falls with his head in favor of the lady.
Admirably cast as a girl of the hockey-cap-
tain persuasion, Miss Macgregor puts every
ounce of her clean-looking youth into the
job. She does not bounce, as hundreds would
do in the part; she walks into it like the
personification of a decently-attired wind.
She looks like a hockey captain, and. a win-
ning one at that. Rowe, of course, is good.
He is always Rowe, but he is never the
same Rowe. He has the gift of. character.
Of the others, Roger Barry can be labelled
the most A 1 at the theatrical Lloyds.
It was a greatly-changed Mischa Levitzki
that came back to Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night after an absence of 10 years.
The Levitzki of 1921 was a devout student,
a bit scared of Bach and Beethoven. The
Mr. MILLS, who turns sound into
celluloid.
1931 model Levitzki is not a whit cleverer
with his fingers, but has an Air of Authority.
He realises that he is alive, whereas most
of the composers whose works he plays are
dead and cannot protest if he phrases their
music to suit himself. He has mastered the
good bold outline which looks right even
when it is wrong, and he can let himself
go with a bang at the obvious places. In
short, he has brought down to copper-tacks
the business of selling cobwebbed classics to
popular audiences. It is an interesting show,
and well worth the price of admission.
Saturday night’s , crowd heard the Tausig
transcription of the Bach D minor Toccata
and Fugue; the “Appassionata” ; the snap-
piest Chopin studies, sugariest valses and
most lugubrious nocturnes, the Tausig fresco
on the “Marche Militaire” and Liszt's “Cam-
panella” and “Sixth Rhapsody.” A pictorial
piece by Ravel and a little thing of Levitzki’s
own were the only touches of modernity not
supplied by the pianist’s engagingly audacious
treatment of the dead ’uns.
The Gilbert and Sullivan season continues
to rage at Melbourne Royal, and the houses
are all that could be expected by the most
acquisitive management. The most popular
feature of the current “Pirates of Penzance”
is the singing of “Poor Wandering One,” by
Scene-painter Billy Coleman.
Maisie Ramsay. This brilliant local vocalist
is obviously marked out for even greater
things. “lolanthe” will be the bill for
Saturday.
* * * .
Australia’s most persistent theatrical runs-
getter, Beresford Fowler, knocked Shaw to
leg again with “Candida” at the Queen’s
Hall, Melbourne, last week, amidst the
applause of a small but packed pavilion.
Mr. Fowler carried an unusually straight
bat in the part of Burgess. There was some
unseemly scrambling for a catch between
Percy Boden, as the Rev. Morell, and Nor-
man Heymanson, as the effeminate March-
banks, in the famous squabble scene, and the
ball was lost. Otherwise it was the sound-
est innings the Art Theatre Players have
put up for a long time. Florence Cheers
was an attractive leading lady. Reg Clarke
obtained admittance to the team by some
unexplainable means as the Rev. Mill.
¥ * *
On Wednesday of the week before last
Melbourne Tivoli closed with a bang and
opened with another on the following Satur-
day. When last surveyed it was once more
shut and sealed, but latest reports are that
it will reopen in splendor and under the
management of Harry P. Muller on May 1(5.
The aim of the new owners is to return
to the standard set by vaudeville eight years
ago, whatever that may have been. Agents
are stated to be abroad in England and
the U.S.A. booking up the latest and best.
* * ¥
As seen at Adelaide Royal, “The New
Moon” is almost a new show. David
Grahame is hero, Lilian Crisp the somewhat
shrewish heroine, and both sing finely. Don
Nicol frivols on true Bluett lines, and Vera
Spaull plays up to him well. Useful
help comes from Willoughby (who has
never done anything better), Butterworth
and Amy Rochelle. A pleasant, romantic
show —which is not to say that it could not
be better acted in one or two directions,
“The Love Race,” tried on the dog
at Brisbane Majesty’s, is the Firm’s latest,
musicomedy. It is a light and airy affair,
with good talent in it, including Josie Mel-
ville, Leo Franklyn and Gus Bluett. F'rock-
ing and dancing excellent.


Do
You
Realise
You
Need
THIS
Battery?
as
Off —in a flash!
"TWELVE or more services depend on
it. The windshield wiper and horn
for clear vision and warnings. Headlights
and cowl lights for safety and parking.
Starter, Cigar Lighter, Ignition and Dash
Light. Rear Light, Stop Light vital
warnings that add to motoring safety.
Inside Lights for comfort in closed cars.
The battery supplies generous current when
needed for all these essential services.
Look, then, to your car battery. It works
harder than ever before. More starts and
stops a dozen points to be powered, all
adding to the drain on the battery. It’s
reasonable, therefore, that it should be
chosen with greater care.
As the battery was called upon for added
duties, Exide met the demand. That’s
why Exide Batteries maintain their leader-
ship throughout the world.
The Long Life Battery
FOR CARS, RADIO and HOME LIGHTING
Distributors for New South Wales:
EXIDE BATTERY & DELCO-REMY SERVICE
(Gibson Battle & Co., Ltd.),
Hunt and Commonwealth Streets
(off Wentworth Avenue), Sydney.
Distributors for Victoria and Riverina:
A. P. SUTHERLAND,
Queen’s Bridge, 2 Maffra Street,
South Melbourne.
Distributors for Queensland:
EXIDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q.), LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Sturt Street, Townsville.
Distributors for S. Australia and Broken Hill
UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD.,
97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Distributors jor West Australia:
M. J. BATEMAN, LTD.,
Magneto House, Milligan Street, Perth.
Distributors jor Tasmania:
MEDHURST’S Exide Battery Service Stations,
141 Collins Street, Hobart. ’Phone: 5024.
59 Brisbane Street, Launceston. ’Phone: 1542.


w
mi
CHOIC
C CAR
Y\
yv
6,
D
I Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome... .and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITIiEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, EjYDNEY.
PARENTS SHOULD KNOW
THIS.
HOW TO SAVE MONEY BY MAKING
FAMILY COUGH REMEDY.
It is essential that all parents should know
how to save money by making their own
family cough remedy that will prove safe
and effective for every member of the family,
from the youngest baby up to the oldest
adult. Here is the recipe, given by a leading
chemist: Into a jug put four tablespoonfuis
of sugar, three of either treacle or honey,
two of vinegar, and a large breakfast-cupful
of warm water; stir until dissolved, and,
when cold, pour into a large bottle. Then
add a bottle of concentrated HEENZO (it
costs 2/- at all leading chemists and stores ),
and you will have a family supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to eight
ordinary-sized bottles of the usual remedies
for chest and throat ailments, which if
purchased in single bottles would cost up to £l.
You will be astounded at the speedy way
HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases the chest
and banishes coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis,
influenza and whooping cough. Make itj a prac-
tice to always have HEENZO in your home.*
ABORIGINALITIES
“Elderly Infant” : That “Said Before” par.
about the Otira Gorge (M.L.) brings back
a flood of memories, the dearer because the
Arthur’s PasS tunnel now burrows
under the mountains beside the
gorge, and the" tourist catches
only a fleeting glimpse of the big
trough. As a patriotic but also
tolerably honest Maorilander I
must confess I never could see
how the “grandest scenery in the
world” tag came to be attached
to this particular section of the
Southern Alps. Like all the rest
of the terrain below the snowline,
it consists of several square miles
of bush-clad landscape tilted up
at an angle of about 65 degrees.
There is a legend that when the
rata is in bloom the ravine is a
blaze of gorgeous scarlet, but I
never struck it in that mood. I
did see a sprinkle of liver-tinted
red on the hillsides on one occa-
sion, but on" investigation found
it was caused not by rata but by a
humbler bloom called by natives
the bottledbrush. Also, though I
made many passages per coach
between Springfield and Otira, I
never struck those witty coach-
drivers. Those I met were taci-
turn men who seemed to have a
confirmed grouch against their
job. The only approach to wit
on the toilsome journey that came
in my way was produced by a pas-
senger. It was in the days when
the tunnel was being surveyed.
The driver, obviously as a matter
of duty, halted the coach near the
Bealey crossing, and indicating
with his whip a patch on the
mountains no different from any
other patch remarked gloomily,
“That’s where the tunnel comes
out.’.’ We all stared at that patch
for five minutes, when a mild old
gent, remarked, “I don’t think it’s
going to come out to-day. Sup-
posing we push along !” At inter-
vals on the journey the passengers
were turned out of the coach and
made to 1 hoof it for a few miles
to ease the horses on stiff grades:
This involved the crossing of
countless mountain torrents each
bridged by a frugal local authority
with a not very plump out very
slippery tree-trunk lubricated with
green slime. Frequently passen-
gers fell into creeks and had to be
salvaged by their fellow-voyagers.
That had nothing to do with the
coachie. He just smoked his pipe
and sat aloft, comfortable,
superior, aloof and hating the
whole world. There isn’t as much scenery
in the tunnel as there is in the gorge, but
the railway passengers have a lot to be
thankful for.
* * * *
“Matilda”: McTaggerty was well known
for his poor opinion of bagmen, and only the
newchums wasted time by calling on him.
Bluey and his mate Dan heard of McTag-
THE LANGUAGE OF ART.
O'KERR: “May I speak to you for a moment, D’Auber?”
D’AUBER: “You may, but it’s no use. I’m going out in a minute to speak to somebody
myself.”
gerty down the track, but they decided to give
it a go. On approaching McTaggerty Dan
lit a cigarette with a wax match, and flicked
THE NATURE STUDENT.
COCKY: “We’ll do some grubbin’ ter-mor[?]er, Choom.”
CHOOM : “Good-oh! Any chance of finding silkworms about here?”
away the match, still alight. Bluey rushed
up and stamped on it; then turned to the
owner. “It’s ’ard on me, Boss,’’ he whined.
“Every time me mate lights up it’s me wot’s
got to step on the light. One of these days
I’ll miss it, and then a few acres are goin’
up in smoke.... ’Ow about some flour and
sugar, Boss?” He got it.
.** * *
“Sam Slocum”: Recently picked up and
travelled with a companion who on our arri-
val in a town invariably made it his first
business to visit the lock-up. It usu-
ally depended upon-thesp visits whether we
mooched on again the following morning or
remained a few days. He explained that
an empty booby-hatch spoke of • depression.
“But,” he added,'“if yer sees a boob full o’
boozers it means that yer treadin’ ,on pros-
perous ground.”
**- * *
“PalandaV: - The coastal abos. of the
North are giving a little demonstration of
the folly of civilisation just now.
They don’t give a dump for old
General de Presh, and the price of
wool means as little to them as the
rate of exchange. Turtles abound
all- along the coast and their eggs
may be found on any beach—6o in
a nest. Oysters and crabs are plen-
tiful everywhere, and the sea teems
with fish. .Wild honey is to be
found easily by folk with sharp eyes;
wallabies are plentiful, and ’pos-
sums and bandicoots provide. an
occasional change of meat. It isn’t
necessary to grow wheat and be
ruined by Sovieteers when you can
make flour from the nuts of a tree-
fern, and agriculture generally is
despised by people who have yams
growing wild and who can find a tasty
.snack in the core of a palm-tree. Dur-
ing the rainy season bush fruits are
plentiful. Ducks and geese may be found
in thousands at certain times of the year,
likewise their eggs. There are other foods
relished by the abo. at which a white man
might baulk, such as lizards, grubs and
mangrove worms ; but Binghi has the laugh
on us. He know T s how to live in Australia
without pawning it.
“X NO’ 1, “lI.A.L.’s” gardener (H
22/4/’3i) who, because his boss had wanted
a man who would “obey without ques l
deliberately cut down a treasured clump of
trees would have received short shrift in
the Navy. Victoria Crosses have certainly
been awarded for stupidly implicit obedience
to orders, and Casabianca’s son made an ass
of himself through the same type of idiocy.
But the Navy differentiates between “orders”
and “instructions.” The former must be
implicitly obeyed; the latter are more in
the nature of general guides. Circumstances
may convert an order into an instruction —
for example, when it becomes obvious that
the order was given under some misappre-
hension. Such was the gardener’s case, and
he would have done much better to have cut
down nothing, reported the fact, listened to
the tirade on disobedience, and then respect-
fully covered his boss with confusion by dis-
closing his mistake. The effect would have
been the same and the Lebanon cedars
would have been saved.
* * * *
“J.K.”: The smallest stockwhip in the
world was made by Simon Fraser, of Mel-
bourne, who was taught the art of whip-
making by Nangus Jack, an abo. This whip
was plaited with 24 strands of greenhide,
each strand, a sixteenth of an inch wide, and
was so finely woven that it could pass through
a quarter-inch hole. Now 86, Mr. Fraser has
made . hundreds' of stockwhips. He presented
one to Ring George, another to the Prince of
Wales and one each to the present Duke and
Duchess of York.
* * * *
“Toby C.”: The last Queensland flood
produced this act of heroism. When the
flood waters reached my fowlhouse old
Geraldine, our favorite Black Orpington, was
within three days of hatching her setting of
15 eggs. She had made her nest in a large
tin dish, which rested on the ground in a
corner of the fowlrun. In the excitement,
though the other birds were moved to a safe
place, the sitting hen was forgotten and spent
a night in watery surroundings. When day-
light came Geraldine’s nest was floating in
two feet of water, but she sat tight. The
flood waters receded during the morning
and the floating roost settled down on a new
foundation. Thirteen chicks was the score.
DINGO ROSS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There’s spesherlists in every line,” said
Zeke as in the fire he spat;
“Professors lecturin’ on this, and salesmen
demonstratin’ that.
From Hebrew to electric irons their pearls
of learnin’ out they toss.
But where’ll you hear another with a line
of talk like Dingo Ross?
“A lean and gypsy-looking cove, few didn’t
know him in his day;
You’d hear his name wherever sheep were
run in good old W.A.;
And when some grim marauder’s work
threatened his flocks with extra loss,
There’s many a harried squatter sent an
SOS for Dingo Ross.
“He'd lecture,, too, and demonstrate, and
show himself as slick a chap
In moles and a Crimean shirt as ever wore
a gown and cap.
His classrooms were the country shows;
and there the station-hand arid boss,
Cocky and jaekeroo, you’d see grouped in a
ring round Dingo Ross.
“His only props were traps,” said Zeke. “He
knew- his job from A to Z,
But what professors get from books he had
to carry in his head.
A rollin’ stone, ’tis like enough he never
gathered much of moss;
He’d little time for anything except his
craft, old Dingo Ross.
“What stacks of unwrit lore were his. How
earnestly he would dilate
Upon the skill and care you need for putting
in its place the bait.
Why, half the things I learned at school I
reckon useless junk and dross
Beside the nature-study tips I got for nix
from Dingo Ross.
“Good luck to him, wherever lie is ! ’Twas
he that taught mo all I know
About the game, but that,” said Zeke, “was
five-and-twenty years ago.
And if he’s given earth a miss and passed
the Great Divide across,
I hope there’ll be some wild dogs there. Else
’twill be dull for Dingo Ross.”
N.s.w.
IFORD.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc,
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
THRIFT PROFIT
Opportunities for profitable investment are many and varied,
but in almost all cases call for a lump sum of money in advance.
Deposits made with a Savings Bank, however, return a profit
in a way that few investments provide, for sums of from 1/-
upwards are accepted and may be deposited as often as is
desired, while the balance earns interest from the first- pound.
Every Post Office in Australia is a Commonwealth Savings
Bank Agency, and there are full Branches in the principal towns.
Commoitwcaltb Savinas JBankof Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
m
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
lor nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Car] yon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, bed and breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Inclusive board from
10/6 daily, or 66/- weekly,
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyons’
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
“Eltrew”: If you don’t believe that eels
are fond of music, ..watch Japanese sailor
boys fishing for them with bell-lines. When
the Atsuta Maru was last in Melbourne
a dozen sons of Nippon squatted in the sun
on the wharf at Victoria Dock, with lines let
down between the cracks in the wharf-floor-
ing. After a while they were greeted with
the strains of music. It sounded like a
xylophone playing the opening bars of
“Swing Me Higher, Obadiah,” and as each
line was pulled up it faded away into minia-
ture peals like the bells of St. Paul’s. There
was an eel on every line save one, and in
that case the tongue of the bell had become
tangled with the line.
:J: ❖ sji
“C.Q..” : Touching unconventional methods
of stalking deer in Vic. (B. 22/4/’3l). Gor-
don Casey, of Gippsland, is for
first prize in this department/ A little, slight,
elderly man, he makes a profession of round-
ing up the sambur for city sportsmen and
to protect the farmers’ crops, aud has notched
62 head himself without, firing a shot. In
fact, the only weapon he ever carries is a toy
popgun, which he uses to signal the presence
of game to the shooters. Casey rides a horse
with dog instincts. As soon as it sights a
deer it is after it, while Casey guides it with
DIDN'T LIKE THE LOOK OF HIM KIT HER.
FACETIOUS VISITOR: “My word, I wouldn’t like to be out in the bush here after dark
this evening.”
JEALOUS JIMMY: “No, my word—that what Mary say, too.”
his heels and uses his arms to ward off the
branches. When he gets alongside the quarry
Casey flings himself on its back and. seizing
the horns, twists its head round and brings
it to the ground. Hot deer's flesh makes bad
venison, and Casey usually ties the animal
up to a tree to; cool down, returning two or
three hours later to give it the coup de grace,
This white Australian tracks as well as
any aboriginal, and where deer are concerned
his prophetic powers are positively uncanny.
On a recent shoot he told the guns that four
deer were on a certain mountain and
described what each would do when driven.
The buck would make for one point, one of
the does for another, etc. They all behaved
exactly as predicted. You will know Casey
by his hat. He has a window cut in it and
looks through the brim instead of under it.
t. * * *
“Nakh.”: I read lately that British far-
mers are finding tula a useful ally in com-
bating the warble-fly, one of the
worst of . cattle parasites. It
is a curious destiny for the
poisonous root which the Malay
has used for fishing purposes
from time immemorial. I once
attended a grand drive, along
with most of the population of.
Brunei, Borneo. For days previously the
root whs collected, loaded into dug-outs, and
there pulped, the exudation filling the boats
to the brim with a thick, white and deadly-
looking fluid. On the selected date the boats
were assembled near the head waters of a
shallow but slowly flowing river. A pagar or
fence- was built a mile or so below, and
then the boats were rocked gunwale under.
The poison slowly spread and sank below
the surface,' while the current carried it
slowly down stream. Presently fish of all
varieties- began to come to the surface, the
small ones dead, the big ones more or less
stupefied. The multitude promptly went
mad. Men, women and children
plunged into the water armed
with spears, or nets and com-
menced tossing the fish on to the
banks. Babies' threw themselves
on fish larger than themselves and
still with plenty of kick in them.
By the time the poison barrage
had reached the pagar the river
was packed from bank to bank
with terrified fugitives, though
probably twice- as many escaped
through the- line of beaters up-
stream. After'a couple of hours
of this the Sultan declared it a
great day’s sport and invited us
to the istana,-where a fish curry
was served, his Royal Highness
assuring us that there was no
danger in the dish despite the
method of. capture. It was an
Australian, by the way, who. in-
troduced the Malay to Izaak
Walton’s ideas of piscatorial, sport. . He
set ah example by fishing with.,a J rod
from the beach at. Banyuwangi, Java, and
rodfishing has since become more or less
popular over most of the* archipelago..
* * * • • • . v# •
“Hamer”: The belief of cannibals that
to eat the heart of a valiant enemy increases
one’s own bravery has a reverse application
amongst white Australians in some back-
block districts, where there are people who
refuse to eat rabbits, although they are as
plentiful as other meat is scarce. “What
can you expect—he was bred on rabbits!”
was a remark made quite seriously in my
hearing about a youth who had shown
cowardice. There was a symposium subse-
quently in the bar parlor, and several bush
scientists gravely put forward proved
examples of human beings affected in nature
by their diet. “Too right!” exclaimed a
hitherto silent listener, scornfully. “Look
INFORMATION SUPPLIED.
NEWOOMER ( stickyb eaking ): “What's ’ee doin’ here, Silas — bain’t sinkin’ trial-shaaft here,
sure-ly.”
SILAS (who has met that sort before ): “Sinkin’ trial-shaaft — no! Just puttin’ down
bit of a well for the squatter to cut up into postholes.”
at old Atkins. Kept a duck farm, an’ three
of ’is kids grew up to be quacks!”
* * * *
“Portion Four”: Some years ago a con-
tractor working on the main road near
where Lake Cargelligo overflows into the
Lachlan ploughed up dozens of abo. skele-
tons. It appeared as if a whole tribe had
been wiped out and dumped so that the flood
waters of the lake would sweep them away.
Instead the silt had gradually covered them
over. The contractor supposed that he had
unearthed an abo. burial-ground, but the
blacks never selected a watercourse for
that purpose. I consulted many of the Euaba-
long abos. regarding the bones, but thev could
not or would not tell anything about them.
Not very far away, close to the river. I
subsequently came across the remains of a
very old hut, an original outpost of Ereben-
dry station, and along the remaining wall,
consisting of ; slabs six inches in thickness,
I noticed several, loopholes, two inches
square, three feet from the' floor and three
feet apart. It doesn’t take much imagina-
tion to fill in the rest of the story.
* * * - *
“Toomba Cat” : Mother Nature has nearly
finished a job of. landscape gardening in the
Blue Mountains which she started last year.
One of the features of the majestic Jamieson
Valley used to be the Dog-face Rock, a sand-
stone cliff face that- overhung considerably.
Mother N. didn’t like it —possibly the vulgar
name given it annoyed her —and she decided
to abolish it. She chopped 100,000 tons off
at the end of January last and left another
million tons or so; partially severed. The
general public, which is never so happy as
when risking its life, has been capering
about on top of the plot marked fen- removal
every fine day ever since, but the sport palled,
and on a recent Saturday when the cliff
slid succinctly to the’ bottom of the valley
there was nobody around to get killed. How-
ever, the concussion of the latest fall has
opened fresh cracks in the cliff, the inspec-
tion of which will doubtless be the favorite
pastime of tourists for some weeks to come.
* * =!•• *
‘'N'.O.”: Concerning the discovery of the
Palmer goldfield (B. 29/4/’3l). Frank
Hann was manager of Lolworth sta-
tion, owned by the Clarkes, of Melbourne,
and was interested in the Cape River dig-
gings (1807) and later in the Palmer. His
brother William Hann. of Bluff Downs near
Dalrymple, led an expedition to the Palmer
in 1572, when he specked some small gold,
The actual find of values was by surveyor
Warner. Bill Hann named the river (which
he said was explorer Kennedy’s “Ninety-
yard Creek”) the Palmer. Neither of the
brothers took profit from the field. In ’7B
Jim Mulligan reported a rich find and “the
Palmer Rush” followed. The field produced
55 tons of gold.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: I’ve often adopted the trick
mentioned by “Gumblegubbin” (B. 8/4/’3l)
t) j taking off my clothes and standing up
naked in a heavy shower—it’s the acme of
m i sei -y to be in wet clothes when a cold wind
j s blowing—bub I once came a thud. I was
c h a sing my strayed horse in the saltbush
country east of Kooringa (S.A.) when an
immense black cloud came rolling up from
the nor’-west. I hastily stripped off, rolled
my clothes into a compact little ball, stood
jt on a heap of stones with my hat on top
to run the water off, and waited, crouching
j n the lee of a bush. I congratulated myself
on m y foresight when I heard the loud roar
the shower made as it swept down on me,
] m t a few second later a stinging blow be-
tween the shoulder-blades made me realise
the awful truth—it was a hailstorm! The
individual hailstones weren’t so very big—
the largest was aboufi the size of a big pea—
but didn’t they sting! I’ve never dressed
quicker in my life, yet a few seconds suf-
flood to dot my arms, shoulders and back
w ith red spots, actually drawing blood in
places. Next day the spots turned blue,
making me look like a n ancient Briton whose
woa d was moulting
* 7 * *
i<TT „ ~ ~ ~ . ~ ,
, Maonlands comedian in bird-
landlS kea, though farmers regard him
9 s t \ e due to his alleged partiality
£ ol ’ , s^ ee P- He has been known to follow
t° ur } sts for miles m the bush, keeping them
in , VICW h °Pl\ n .g tree to tree in then-
'Yake* P ne his diversions is tormenting
! ,red sojourners m tin-covered huts by pick-
‘"p up pebbles and dropping them, on the roof
all night long. Recently a turkey;was nn-
Peaked af Cook Hermitage while a col-
lection of keas sat looking on. They treated
the bubblyjock as a huge joke, broadcasting
a cllo , rus of “He-ha’s” at him. The bubbly
thought to smother them with his gobbling,
bn ? the keas flew away, and returning with
reinforcements literally overwhelmed, the
gabble of the newcomer with their derision.
SEPARATIN’ AFTER TEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It’s diff’rent women, diff’rent ways,” said
Jim, and sw T ung the handle round,
“An’ in my young an’ giddy days the one
to dodge I alwuz found
Was ’er ’oo said when you were there on any
Sundee after tea,
‘Ole boy, I wonder if you’d care tq separate
a bit fer me.’
“More fellers ’ave been caught like that than
ever will own up to it.
There’s Jones fer one —lives on the flat up
Cannabulla way a bit.
*E wasn't soft, as fellers go, but ’e was jist
a wee bit green.
Now ’e’s a batch o’ eight, yer know —all
owing to this dam’ machine.
“She useter say to ’im, ‘Oh, Ted, yer arms
are clean an’ big an’ strong.’
Of course ’er words went to ’is ’ead —no
chap could stand the like for long.
’E popped the question straight one night
when they ’ad put ten gallons through;
The gal she murmured, ‘P’raps I might’-
and did, within a month or two.
“It’s diff’rent women,- diff’rent wiles,” said
Jim, and poured the last pail out;
“They trick you with their winnin’ smiles
before you know wot you!re about.
Aw! Only twice I tried the game o’ separa-
tin’ after tea.
The gal I ’elped ’as changed .’er name—she’s
feedin’ poddies there fer me.”
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINALAY.


On April 23 the Government Savings Bank of N.S.W. suspended payments.
Are any of the other banks likely to do the same?
Can this drift in the public accounts be stopped?
Is inflation inevitable; if so, who would suffer most from it?
Which companies are likely to come through with the best results?
These, and many other problems of vital interest, are discussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY” for May.
NOW
ON
SALE
2/-
SINGLE COPY.
226
a year post free.
From Newsagents,
or “Bulletin”
Office, Sydney,
Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide,
Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
e
THE UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE.
PLANTER: “Boy, you see-um horse belong me?”
BOY: "No, Taubada; but I bin’ hear ’im make noise like
gram’phone."
*v
and we may be sure the members of our one
and only corps d’elite will do their duty.”
“Do you know anything about their —er
—procedure ?”
“Investigation of the suspect’s bank
account to discover who has been paying the
rent of her flat. Scrutiny of cheques given
to dressmakers, and so on. Cross-examiua-
tion of servants. The usual active-service
routine.”
“And the indemnity?”
“Crushing, my dear ! Forced resignation,
if not expulsion, from St. AVhoop’s Hospital
Committee. - Exclusion from charity theatri-
cals for life. Press references to her collec-
tion of second-century chair-legs mercilessly
censored”
“I suppose it will mean ruin for old
Boozely, too?”
“Oh, Boozely will be quite all right. He’s
one’s of the Guardsmen.”
J.
H- *
WRONG WHICHEVER WAY IT’S
CONSIDERED.
“A Silesian Judge ruled last week that the ex-
Kaiser must not sign himself Wilhelm 1.R.”
Such lapses we must sternly damn,
Lest zeal for grammar faint;
He should, of course, have signed “/ am” —
And, anyhow, ’e ain’t.
* " *
After all, Australia is our owing country.
They’re changing his title to “The Com-
monwealth Film Incensor.”
* V
Paradoxically, it was only by abandoning
his crown that Alfonso escaped being
“crowned.”
* #
DRIVEN TO DESPERATION.
People pointed him out in the street.
Crowds gaped at him. Reporters dogged him
night and day. Reduced to a hunted thing
of jangling nerves, he swore that he neither
could nor would bear his cross longer. He
queued up in the bankrupts’ week-end line at
the Gap and took the plunge with a loud
yell of relief. Next day N.S.W. mourned the
only adult male who wasn’t entitled to wear
either an A.F.A. or A.L.A. badge.
McM.
STUNG!
“A surge of emotion swept over him as she con-
fessed her love. It pained him deeply.” —“Wide
World."
Times change, and {alas!) we change with
’em.
The story has often been told.
The course of our love lacked that rhythm
Without which affection grows cold.'
For though I once longed to > possess u;
This passion you vow —to be plain
(With shame and regret I confess it)
Now gives me a pain!
S. W. K.
ON THE PONY-
LINE.
“Hello, Mabel!
How’s things at
home?”
“Rotten. Tom's
been sacked. The
kid seems to be
sickening for some-
thing, poor little
devil! The t.-p.
man says he’ll take
our wireless away
unless .we pay up
on the last two in-
stalments. < and the
baker and milkman
have refused to
leave any more
stuff”
“You might say
you’re practically
broke?”
“Oh, not as bad
as that; but it
takes a bit of
squeezing to get
enough for the
ponies.”
S.
“A hundred years ago most Sydneyites lived on
‘The Rocks.’ ” — “S. M. Herald."
And a good many of them are on the rocks
still.
* *
“Petitioner said his wife was a brilliant woman,
but when she had no parties to attend she became
bad tempered.”— Divorce evidence.
It’s exasperating to be all dressed up and
now’here to glow.
¥ *
WAITS AND MEASURES.
“England has agreed to wait two years for inter-
est.” — Cable.
Our horrible financial state
Co-operation close entails;
So England, will supply the wait,
And Auburn will supply the scales.
# *
“Defendant certainly didn’t look as if he had
been drunk.” — Sydney P.M.
Someone may have bailed him out.
* *
“Not until winter- is past will employment return
to norman.” — “Sunday Guardian.”
In the meantime, poor old Norman, like
many others, has to depend on the dole.
“Petrol is still being diluted with kerosene
in N.S.W.” A poor commercial spirit!
* »
If our political leaders talked less and
said more the electorates might be better
informed.
* ¥
The reason the N.S.W. Parliament is likely
to live out its full term is that it is such a
short distance from the cushioned seats of
the Assembly to the unupholstered benches
of the Domain.
* *
There has been much talk about the bombs
sent to ex-C.J. Knox and others, yet in a
democratic country the people have an un-
alienable right to blow up their public men.
* *
N.S.W. has been struck by a wave of
AFA-bility.
* *
THE EMBRACE.
Silent, motionless, they stood clasped in
each other’s arms. He was vaguely aware
that they were observed; that they were
attracting attention, aye. derision; but he
forbore to extricate himself. He had suffered
already; they had both suffered. But he
realised bitterly that the wrench of their
parting would only bring more agony, more
shame. The ghastly horror of it!
And now the spell was broken.
“Break there ! Break !” ordered the referee.
W.
? $
MORE PRESS CONGRATULATIONS.
To the “Labor Daily” from Archdale
Parkhill: —
Heartiest congratulations on your tear-
less leader, “Party Hacks and Tory Die-
hards.” You are doing a fine public service
in warning the electors against “the iniqui-
tous Bligh-street machine,” which is largely
responsible for our present economic chaos.
Success to the glorious A.L.A.!
To Sydney “Sun” from Dr. Earle Page:—
Allow me to offer my felicitations (which
are, I need hardly say, entirely unsolicited)
on the splendid series of articles you are
running by Past Prominent Politicians. I
were more than human did I not feel grati-
fied at your statement that “it was an aus-
picious day for Australia when this great
patriot decided to relinquish the scalpel for
the Budget” (meaning mo). I would like
to say on behalf of my party that the A.F.A.
may be assured of our utmost support, pro-
vided portfolio arrangements are satisfac-
tory. As financial geniuses, the “Sun” and
I have much in common, which makes your
praise all the more acceptable.
HEY, HOLD OFF!
“Many a wise word’s spoken in jest, Ella.”
“Yes, Bill, but lots more foolish ones are spoken in earnest.”
P.S. —When the merger shares are down
to Is. sd. I hope to snap a few up!
To “Truth” from a recent divorcee: —
As a principal in one of the snappiest
divorce cases of the season, I wish to con-
gratulate you on the meticulous detail with
which you published the disclosures, especi-
ally those of an intimate character. Parti-
cularly do I desire to compliment you on
the alliterative gem with which you headed
the account of it, viz., “Colin Cops Co-re.
Cuddling Clara.” So long as you continue
the good work we may be sure that the
higher journalism reaches the great beat-
ing heart of the public.
S. W. K.
REMORSE.
Yes. I’ve been deceiving the wife....l
can’t forget it.... I think of it miserably,
morning, noon and night.... especially night.
.... It’s got that way now that I can’t
sleep for thinking about it.... She won’t
let me. ...
P.
A GOOD GUESS.
TEACHER: “Do you remember in which
battle it was that Nelson was killed?”
MAUDE: “Yes, sir—his last one.”
“Many fashionable stocks to-day fell under a heavy
selling wave.” — N.Y. cable.
Not to be confused, mind, with a marcel-
ling wave.
* ¥
Alfonso has become a mis-Hapsburg.
¥ #
If it comes to another election Premier
Lang will be looking down his noes.
“Some of our pugs, talk too much.” — “Referee."
The chatter-boxers!
NURSERY RHYME.
Ding, dong, bell,
Pussy’s in the well,
Who pushed her in?
“The Capitalist!” roar Lang and crowd;
“Labor!” moans Bavin, with sorrow bowed.
It’s nice to see them argue like that —
But which of ’em’s going to save the cat?
OUR ECONOMIC CASUALTY LIST.
Fell Down on Jon.
His complacency badly fractured, HAROLD
WOOF (25) was
found in a semi-con-
scious state in a bar
yesterday afternoon.
It transpired that he
had been sacked as
incompetent. Mr.
Woof was treated to
further stimulants by
sympathetic friends,
and was able with
their assistance to
leave later for his
home.
Night of Horror.
JOE DUDDLE
(54) spent a night of
horror last week due
to a hideous crash in
the family fortunes.
On the same day—
almost, by a malign
coincidence, at the
same hou r—Mrs.
JANE DUDDLE
(52) was thrown out
of her billet as daily
general for impu-
dence, and MISS
NORMA DUDDLE
(24) cleared off and
got married, thus
leaving the bread-
winner, who has been
unemployed for
years, incomeless.
Mr. Duddle is still
suffering from shock
and a burning thirst.
“I’m Sinking,” He
Cried. Hopes Dead.
“ ‘l’m sinking,’ I
admitted to the wife
as far back as last
Jan u a r y,” LOU
AV A N G LESTEIN
(48) told the Judge
in Bankruptcy. “I
cried. So did she. I
was sinking then,”
proceeded insolvent
defiantly, “an’ now
I’m dam’ well sunk.
I ain’t got a bean,
and you can’t get
blood out of a stone.”
At this grim news
the hopes of several
creditors who happened to be in court col-
lapsed and died..
Appalling Cbash. Whole Family
Involved.
No less than five members of one family
were recently involved in an appalling crash
in the very heart of Sydney. WILLIAM
WAMBLE (62), his wife GRACE
WAMBLE (57), their sons WILLIAM
MORRIS (16) and STANLEY MEL-
BOURNE (7) and daughter MELBA (10)
were the victims. One and all had money
in the N.S.W. Government Savings Bank.
10-2-4.


THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . , . . . . . £4,500,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank) . . 4,475,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . . 4,500,000
£13,475,000
NINETY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 13th OCTOBER, 1930,
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING,
HELD ON THURSDAY, 26th MARCH, 1931.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 13th October
last, with the Profit Account for the year to that date. After providing for rebate on
bills current, for British, Australian and New Zealand rates and taxes, and making
provision for bad and doubtful debts and other contingencies, the net profit for the
year amounted to £6 1 5,083/ 19/11.
To this has to be added £161,943/7/5 brought forward from the previous year’s
account, making a total of £777,027/7/4. From this, £315,000 was paid as an
Interim Dividend on 3rd October last, and the Directors have now appropriated
a further sum of £270,000 to pay a final Dividend of 6/- per Share, making in all
£585,000, equal to 13/- per Share, and representing for the year a distribution
at the rate of 13 per cent., free of Income Tax. There will remain £192,027/7/4
to be carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend will be payable in London, Australia and New Zealand on 2 7th
March.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: Mr. Charles Gipps Hamilton, Mr. Arthur
Whitworth and Mr. John Francis Grey Gilliat, who, being eligible, offer themselves
for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for
re-election.
J. F. G. GILLIAT, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 16th March, 1931.
PROFIT ACCOUNT FROM OCTOBER 14, 1929, TO OCTOBER 13, 1930.
Balance brought forward from October, 1929 .. .. .. . .. .. ..£161,943 7 5
Profit for the year to October 13, 1930, after deducting Rebate on Bills
Current at Balance date ( £17,726/7/9), and making provision for all
bad and doubtful debts and for other contingencies .. .. .. £1,661,676 4 2
Less: —(l) Charges of Management—Australasia—
Salaries and allowances to the Staff, including
the Superintendent’s Department and 238
Branches and Agencies .. .. .. .. £518,383 12 0
General Expenses, including rent, repairs,
stationery, travelling, etc. .. .. .. 110,699 17 5
London—
Salaries 34,434 8 9
General Expenses .. ... .. .. .. 10,679 17 9
£674,197 15 11
(2) Rates and Taxes—
Australasia .. .. ..£217,635 9 10
London 154,758 18 6
£372,394 8 4
; 1,046,592 4 3
Total amount of net profit for the year to October 13, 1930 . . . . .. 615,083 19 11
£777,027 7 4
Prom which deduct:—
Dividend paid October 3, 1930 .. .. .. .. ..£315,000 0 0
Transferred to Dividend Account, payable March 27, 1931 .. 270,000 0 0
£585,000 0 0
Balance carried forward per Balance-sheet
..£192,027 7 4
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 13, 1930.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. .. .. .. £401,137 0 0
Deposits at Interest .. .. 24,073,790 6 8
Current accounts .. .. .. 10,158,793 18 3
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit
and other Liabilities, including
provision for contingencies .. 3,795,375 17 9
Acceptances lor Customers, as per
contra 170,261 14 1
£38,599,358 16 9
Capital.. ..£4,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business of the
bank) . . 4,475,000 0 0
Dividend payable
March 27, 1931 270,000 0 0
Profit Account
Balance .. 192,027 7 4
9,437,027 7 4
£48,036,386 4 1
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government
Notes and Cash Balances
Loans at call and at short notice
British Government Securities ..
Government Securities of Austral-
asia and other Investments ..
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in transit
Advances on Securities and other
Assets
Liability of Customers for
Acceptances as per contra ..
Bank Premises and Sites in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Lon-
don, at Cost, less Amounts
written off
NOTE: At the Exchange rates
current at the 13th October,
1930, the capital employed in
Australia and New Zealand
shows a depreciation which
is provided for by an Exchange
Suspense Account included in
the provision for Contingencies.
£6,111,127 2 7
495,000 0 0
2,169,392 11 9
2,726,990 11 9
2,576,109 11 2
33,387,247 13 10
170,261 14 1
400,256 18 11
£48,036,386 4 1
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant. E. GODWARD, Manager.
We have examined the Cash and Securities in London, and the London Books, and have verified the
transfers from the several Branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that,
in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair Balance-sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true
and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books. The investments were valued
at market price or under.
London, 11th March, 1931.
DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Liquidators' Fees
When shareholders put a co. into volun-
tary liquidation, the liquidator, whoever he
may be, is entitled to exercise all the powers
of a liquidator appointed by the Court. His
position is essentially one of trust; and
though his remuneration is usually decided by
a meeting of shareholders, it very often pur-
ports to be according to a scale which share-
holders in the mass have little chance of
verifying. What represents a “fair thing”
for winding up a concern is therefore very
much a matter of a voluntary liquidator’s
own opinion. The official variety have their
fees checked by the Court.
In August, 1928, shareholders in W. F.
Wollaston and Co., Ltd., a Sydney musical
instrument concern, put their co. into volun-
tary liquidation, and appointed as liquidator
H. R. Hungerford, a well-known Sydney
accountant, to be paid his ordinary profes-
sional fees. On November 20, 1930, the
Court stepped in, making the liquidation com-
pulsory, and appointed its own liquidator.
During his term of office Hungerford paid
himself £5795, representing 44.71 p.c. of the
total realisations (£13,158). He appeared
to have drawn fees, said Justice Harvey,
whenever there were funds in the coffers. The
Judge was of the opinion that £2137 was a
fair remuneration, and ordered that H'unger-
ford refund the balance (£3659) received by
him within 14 days.
Another winding-up is interesting Sydney
at the moment. Last week shareholders in
George A. Bond and Co., Ltd. (in liquida-
tion), carried a resolution expressing great
dissatisfaction regarding the realisation of
the company’s undertaking, and urging that
steps be taken to have the work of the present
liquidator (R. W. Nelson) investigated and,
if necessary, have Mr. Nelson removed.
Though shareholders have so far received
nothing out of the wreckage of this £700,000
concern, the remuneration of the liquidators
(during the first few months there were two)
ran into something like £66,000 (over £20,000
a year), being latterly at the rate of p.c.
on turnover. Simon Hickey, M.L.C., stated
that Bond’s Industries, Ltd., which took over
the old co.’s business, had been singularly
successful, suggesting that the purchase had
not been on an equitable basis. It was
thought that most shareholders had received
a raw deal. “We think,” added Mr. Hickey,
“that the assets might have been handled
better, and should at least have brought us
something.” go the matter is to be brought
before the Court. At present the liquidator
is abroad.
It is quite obvious that liquidators’ bills
should be subject to “taxation,” no matter
what the nature of the liquidation.
The Wool Outlook
Two years ago we sold nearly three mil-
lion bales of wool at an average of £2l 12s.
2d. When this season finishes, as it soon
will, the total cheque will be just about
half the 62 millions realised in that fat
year. Yet, in spite of a 5 per cent, decline
in the season’s clip, Australia is produc-
ing over a million bales of wool more than
were put out ten years ago.
The big jump in exchange did not occur
until the bulk of the season’s wool had
changed hands; after that, of course, sellers
reaped substantial benefit. The buying of
wool by those wishing to place funds abroad
had also something to do with the warming
up of buying.
Of the wool sold only the very good lots
found ready sale and high prices. Super-
merinos were eaten up by France and Japan.
Both these countries specialise in the fine
woollen fabrics for which the female of
the species calls so insistently. The middle
sorts in which Yorkshire deals were also
well bought by Britain—still the greatest
manufacturer of those cloths which are
turned into the heavier weaves for men and
women. German buying showed a strong
advance, most of their purchases being for
40’s to 50’s tops production. Italy was
another good buyer; she grows little high-
quality wool herself, America’s contribu-
tion to the buying was negligible. By all
accounts her attempt to supply herself with
the better classes of wools by encouraging
local woolgrowers with the prohibitive duty
of 17d. per pound on h scoured basis has
failed badly. The U.S.A. consume 30 per
cent, more wool than they can supply. They
will have to come to Australia for the bal-
ance, sooner or later, or else pay extravagant
prices for genuine woollen goods—they are
doing that to-day, by all accounts.
As to the growers of the Australian fleece,
their gross returns dropped down to as low
as 4s. per sheep; but there were cases run-
ning to Bs. per jumbuck. Even a year ago
any grower looked for Bs. to 10s. Much of the
drop is due to the fact that growers have
been led away with the idea that a heavy,
hairy fleece pays better than one bred true
to the characteristic Australian type of fine
resilient wool. Buyers this season have
shown us that they want only the super
qualities. Their refusal to take the poor
stuff, except at ruinous prices, should urge
Australian sheepmen to work back to their
one-time monopoly of fine-wool production.
Sugar-growing in Papua
The North Queensland crowd which a
while ago formed a co. to grow sugar in the
n.-e. district of Papua has a rival. Last
week a co. was floated in Sydney to take on
the same job. The Cairns co. has its possie
in the Sangara Valley, which most old
Papuans will remember as the roadway to
the Yodda goldfield. Where the new co.
will locate has not yet been made public
property, but since the list of subscribers
is headed by a Burns-Philp potentate it may
be taken for granted that they know their
shallots. Both cos., of course, look to the
world’s markets for placing their product,
and with plenty of cheap native labor avail-
able among a ' people who have themselves
been cultivating cane since the days of Eden,
they should make a success of their ventures.
The future of the cane-sugar industry in
Queensland is still in some doubt: it would
be foolish not to recognise that there is a
strong body of opinion in the South —especi-
ally in Victoria —unfavorable to the protec-
tion which the industry now commands. The
support of the movement towards Papua
comes chiefly from those who are interested
in the Queensland industry and want to lay
a bit off.
Wheat Looks Better
The past month has seen a gradual im-
provement in the price for Australian wheat,
and the country will benefit, though unfor-
tunately most of the actual growers got rid
of their harvest before the upward trend
set in. Oversea prices are now T equal to
2s. lOd. f.0.b., a rise of from 6d. to 7d. a bushel
on the offers of a month or so ago. Buying
for Eastern Asia has been partly respon-
sible for the lift, over a million tons having
been bid for, mostly by China. This year
some ninety million bushels have gone over-
seas, and it is expected that the balance will
be largely absorbed before the end of the
financial year, leaving an unimportant carry-
over.
Though not much is heard of it, Australia
is building up a nice little export trade in
grapes, and is aided by the fact that her
crops are in season when other competitors
except South Africa are off the market.
Shipments this season up to mid-April were
51,057 cases, Eastern Asia, the Islands and
India taking over 31,000 of these, while
Maoriland took 1000 cases and Canada and
Britain 3000 and 15,000 respectively. West-
ralia, with 33,609 cases, was the chief ex-
porter, the N.S.W. tally being 5716, includ-
ing consignments from Queensland. South
Aus. contributed 4371 cases. Victoria’s
name does not appear on the list. Wesl-
ralia forwarded practically all the British
consignment and keen competition with the
South African article in this market
resulted in lower prices than elsewhere.
* * * *
Brisbane is itching for still another bridge
over the big river. There are now two in
the city itself, with another for trains only
some i 5 miles higher up. It is proposed
to build a fourth, from Petrie’s Bight to
Kangaroo Point, on a site about a mile
below the two bridges at present connecting
north and south. The scheme is estimated
to cost a million and a half, and the rich
bait of employment for eight hundred men
for three years is given great prominence.
Dorman Long have been looking the propo-
sition over, and Ennis, their bridge-construc-
tion engineer now on his way back to Eng-
land after spinning Sydney’s Harbor web, is
carrying back with him plans and data.
River traffic will be a problem, for many
big overseas steamers discharge at the South
Brisbane wharves higher up the river, and
these must be given sufficient clearance
unless they are to go elsewhere —and South
Brisbane will squeal if that happens.
* * * *
“Ioma”: It is being claimed for the late
J. T. Dorrance, who recently died in
America, leaving a huge fortune, that he was
the first man to get the idea of canning
soups, his venture dating from 1899. But
long before that a Rockhampton (Q.) firm
was canning turtle soup, and the Q.M'.E.
and other Queensland packing firms were
turning out lines of canned meat-soup.
I had many a bellyful of the Australian
product during the S’African War and later
in Papua, for which market the Q.M.E. used
to pack assorted cases.
* * * *
“Catswhisker”: Apart from the demoniac
howls, hoots and shrieks which radio listen-
ers have learned to diagnose as “static,”
there often occurs a scratching, crashing,
cracking, clicking or buzzing which has not
its origin in Mother Nature’s balancing of
her own electrical pressures. Such minor
noises are usually due to man-made elec-
tricity, and to track them down and squelch
them is the object of a sort of heresy-hunt
that is being conducted by the P.M.G.’s
Department. They may arise_ through faults
within the listener’s own radio set or in his
aerial or earth leads. These sources of error
may be tested by disconnecting aerial and
earth wires from the set and bridging the
terminals with a short length of wire. If the
noise persists, overhaul the aerial insulation
and make sure that tree foliage is not touch-
ing the wires. Test the earth by disconnect-
ing and making a temporary earth with a
metal bar stuck into damp soil. If that
doesn’t get rid of the row, the trouble may
lie in the house-lighting installation, or, in
the case of a set which gets current from
the mains and not from a battery, with
the power mains. Another prolific source
of interference is from electric motors in
the neighborhood. If the faults are beyond
the set-owner’s power to remedy, the radio
inspector in the capital of the listener’s
State should 'be written to.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Many writers are fervent in
their appreciation of tropical foods —
Ambrose Pratt in his just-published “Magical
Malaya” is among them —but the food of the
“real” tropics has always been as much
over-rated by travellers as it has been blas-
phemed over by the tropical resident. The
monotonous dietary of tough buffalo, fowl,
rice, bananas and tasteless fish, eked out
with tinned plum-pudding and synthetic
Bombay butter, is probably responsible for
more ill-health on the equator than any
other factor. It is the principal reason
why white men imperil their livers by de-
vouring fiery curries. Anyone who wants
to find a real paradise for epicures need go
no further than northern Bananaland. From
Brisbane almost up to Cape York there is
probably the greatest abundance and variety
of gastronomical raw material in the world.
Every kind of tropical and temperate vege-
table and fruit abounds, and the finest meat
is grown within easy distance of the coast-
line. N.Q. beats even Shanghai in this
respect. But Shanghai is fortunate in hav-
ing great cooks as well as great resources,
whereas the N.Q. culinary operator, with
rare exceptions, is like his or her feilow-
Australian in Melbourne —a caricaturist.
* * * *
“Keg.” : The exchange rate has prompted
people who handle small currency to pick
out English silver and copper coins
These are worth at least 10 per cent and
7i per cent, respectively more than the
made-in-Australia money. We tram-con-
ductors have thus been able to add &
little to our weekly wage; unfortunately
the silver currency is getting as scarce as
sovereigns.
The heavy fall in the price of silver, which,
amongst other things, has greatly affected
the purchasing power of China and reduced
the earnings of Broken Hill and other silver-
lead mining enterprises, was due mainly to
the demonetisation of the metal. When the
rupee was converted to a gold basis the
Indian Government was holding about 300
million, ounces of silver; it still retains
something like 200 million ounces. Hopes
that the United States would call an inter-
national conference with a view to stabilising
the price of the metal faded, when President
Hoover disapproved such a recommendation
by a committee of the Senate.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The adverse exchange has hit
all sorts. Last year or so a large number of
bright singers, ’cellists, pianists and other
musically talented young persons were given
benefits, and large sums were collected to
send them abroad to complete their educa-
tion. With the pound'at 30 per cent, dis-
count in London, the sums are no longer
adequate even if they could be got out of the
country. One Melbourne singer has tem-
porarily abandoned the study of Wagner for
the wool market, with the idea of getting her
cash abroad by the popular method of specu-
lating in raw material; but artists are not
cut out for woolbrokers.
❖ * *
J. C. Stanford, of Melbourne, who kept his
83rd birthday last month, conducted the i
annual sales of stud sheep for Powers, Ruth-
erford and co. for 62 consecutive years. !
He once sold 3375 breeding sheep for
the Edward W. Pitt stud of South Australia
at an average of £l2 ss. sd. a head, and he
has knocked down 44,000 sheep at Fleming-
ton saleyards before breakfast, starting at
three o’clock and stopping at seven.
* * * Ms
“Bimet”: It is hard to realise that there
was a time when silver w T as a more precious
metal than gold, yet an American writer,
rooting among the dust of ages, is perfectly
satisfied that in the beginnings of history
it was ten times as precious. And it seems
to have receded in value slowly. In, the
sixth century b.c. it was worth a quarter as
much as gold. . It took it till nearly 50
years ago to sink to one-twentieth. Now
the ratio of value is roughly Ito 80. Some
of the world’s present troubles are almost
certainly associated with the record low
price of silver; it has obviously restricted
the buying powers of such countries as
China, India and Mexico, which are on the
silver standard.
The whale butchery in the Antarctic has
crippled itself. Not only have the “fish”
been scarcer this season, but the oil market
has been so flooded that the big Norwegian
cos. have been notified by their customers
that there will be no advance offers for the
next season’s catch. As a result it has been
resolved by the combine, which includes all
the large companies, to lay up ships for the
year, which will leave only one or two smail
concerns operating.


SHELTER BELTS.
STOCKS of large, two-year-old, healthy, strong,
insignis pine plants for sale. Very suitable for
shelter, ornament, general planting, etc.
Price, 10/- per 100; 45/- per 500; 80/- per 1000.
Cash with order. Packed, delivered Dartmoor Rail-
way Station. Fullest instructions for planting sent:
with plants. The Forestry Pulp and Paper Co. of
Aust., Ltd., Box 516 G.P.0., Melbourne; or Manager,
Nurseries, Dartmoor, Vic.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridie Street. Sydney.
Price 10/6
tyre
pressure
always.
c This unique flat readinq surface gives
Cres inflated 7 correct qfgtfgf. aCCUraC y
Tyres iniiatcu lu i-ur- * >- —.- ,
wear evenly, give more non-skid miles, ana
save you time, trouble and money. Use an all
British KISMET Tyre Tester regularly—its
unique FLAT reading surface gives dead accu-
rate pressure at a glance. Balloon, Standard
or Giant. Balloon, calibrated in lib. units up to
431 b. Standard up to and Giant up to
1351 b. respectively. Patentees and, Sole Manu-
facturers: WILLIAM TURNER AND BRO.,
LTD., EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
If unable to obtain, write to our Factory Repre-
sentative: Mr. JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71,
Melbourne.
THE IMPROVED
RismeT
** Universal
TYRE TESTER
Queensland Is Calling!
KEEN BUSINESS
MEN KNOW
that Queensland is most favorably
situated of all the States, and are
planning accordingly. They also
know from long experience that
the circulation claims of
The Daily Mail
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
are dependable claims which have
always been supported by un-
deniable proof. They know, too,
that this great newspaper is cer-
tainly unsurpassed as a business
getter by any Queensland publi-
cation.
Rate cards, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.
N.S.W. Branch, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
THE MAN
ON THE [?]AND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
FAT-LAMB PRODUCTION.
‘'Yeoman”: R. Laidlaw Davidson,. of
Woodside (S.A.), has not only proved in a
practical manner the possibilities of the
export-lamb trade, but he has clearly demon-
strated the superiority of the lambs, by a
Southdown ram mated with Romney Marsh-
merino ewes. He has tried Dorsets, Suf-
folks, Shropshires and Southdowns on
merino, comeback; and crossbred ewes, but
for the Adelaide Hills districts and the south-
east of S.A., at least, he emphasises that
the progeny of the Southdown on the Rom-
ney-merino stands alone. In support of his
assertion he can point with pride to the
outstanding fact that a shipment of South-
down x Romney-merino lambs last season
was regarded as the ideal lamb at Smith-
field, equal to the best Canterbury (MX.)
lamb of any breed or cross, and certainly
the best shipment that was ever sent from
South Aus.
Mr. Davidson further supports his pre-
ference for the particular cross which has
given him the premier place in the central
State as a successful exporter of lambs- by
the following advantages of the Romney-
merino ewes: (a) Quality of wool; ( b ) com-
parative freedom of this cross from footrot;
(c) width of the twist, which; accentuates the
wide-set U-shaped hindquarters of the South-
down ; ( d ) they were-short in the leg, which
also blended well with the Southdown.
Mr. Davidson strongly deprecates the sug-
gestion of low fertility of the Romney mated
with the merino ewe. He considers any
tailing of less than 85 per cent. bad. Fol-
lowing are the results of his wool returns
per head from the three types of ewes on
his property for the last two seasons, subject
to some London charges:—
Romney-Merino
Merino. Comeback. Cross.
1929 .. 14/10i 14/6 16/11
1930 . . 7/4 ■ -7/1 9/3
The principal obstacle to the development
of the export trade in Down lambs —-at least
so far as S.A. is concerned —is the definite
shortage of crossbred ewes for breeding pur-
poses. This could be met by merino breeders
on the fringe of the export-lamb-raising
areas joining Romney Marsh rams with their
surplus merino ewes. It is the general
experience that a straight line of crossbred
ewe lambs invariably commands a ready sale
and a good price from those wishing to
engage in the raising of Down x crossbred
lambs for export. The wether crossbred
lambs can be fattened for either the local or
the export market.
“S.R.M.”: “Golightly’s” letter (B.
15/4/’3l) contains a great deal of sound
advice, and at the same time it illustrates
a point which is frequently overlooked by
graziers when mating sheep in order to pro-
duce early-maturing lambs. The comeback
ewe having 75 per cent, merino blood is
constitutionally unfitted to mother an early-
maturing lamb; and her progeny will have a
tendency to exhibit that deficiency of carcase
which is characteristic of the merino. It
is therefore not advisable to breed from any
cross which is more than 50 per cent, merino
if fat lambs are desired.
But “Golightly’s” comparison of the
progeny of Dorset Horn, Border Leicester
and Corriedalo rams on comeback ewes is
hardly fair to the Gorriedale. The lamb
of this cross is per cent, merino. Only
in a limited area are Australian conditions
so favorable as to ensure the fattening of
lambs at the age of three or four months.
This being the case, the dual-purpose sheep
must continue to play an important part in
producing lambs which command a good
price as fats and which may be profitably
carried over shearing.
“Golightly” : Wheat at present prices will
not pay; fat lambs will always pay, pro-
vided they are produced to the requirements
of the export trade. N.S.W. wheat-farmers,
with their knowledge of the production of
fodder crops, their large and efficient farming
plants, their seed and so forth, can undoubt-
edly grow the necessary lush feed over a
period of three months thaf guarantees a prime
fat sucker lamb. All they are wanting in is
the right type of ewe mated to the right
type of ram. Success will be theirs if they
will procure ewes of the first-cross Lincoln-
merino, Borddr Leicester-merino or Romney
Marsh-merino, 1 also well-bred Cofriedale ewes,
and mate with them a Dorset Horn, South-
down or Shropshire ram.
The Shropshire is a good sheep, though
under a cloud in N. S. Wales for
more than a quarter of a century. In
other days graziers rushed the breed and
produced something more like a ’possum
than a prime' sucker lamb. These sheep
naturally failed when mated with Vermont-
merino and pastured on light wool-growing
country which never had fattened lambs,
and so they were cast forth in rage as use-
less for ever. I maintain, however, that, the
breed is good for export lambs, and will
always remain so if suitably used. The thing
that happened to the Shrop. is likely to
happen to the Southdown in N.S.W. unless
breeders insist on seeing that purchasers
possess the right type of ewe to mate them
with and the necessary pastures.
WOOL AND THE TARPOT.
“Woo la way”: Admitting that tar and
wool should be separated bj different hemi-
spheres, and that anybody who can keep
them that distance apart will earn the grati-
tude of the trade, “Kripple” (B. 22/4/’3l)
assumes a couple of back-kicks from the indis-
criminate use of tar in branding saleyard
sheep that are unusual. Woolbuyers, exeept
in the case of local fellmiongers, are rare
visitors to sheep markets, and those who may
go there are not always interested in skin-
wool. Again, at any properly-conducted
fellmongery all tar and paint brands are
carefully picked out by the pullers while the
skin is on the beam. In the scouring process
also, greasy wool does not follow skin-wool
in the bowls, for reasons well known to any
practical scourer; the reverse order prevails.
'The use of tar for branding sheep has
been for years, and still is, a burning ques-
tion with wool manufacturers, but woolmen
continue the practice, varied occasionally
with paint, which is nearly, if not quite, as
bad. .
Skin-wools are freer from this defect than
shorn wools for the reason already stated,
but it is strange that, if such obnoxious
materials have to be used, we do not stamp
them on that part of the fleece where the
least damage would be done and the brand
could be most easily removed at shearing-
time. I suggest the neck, but Government
stock departments like variety, and stipu-
late for branding on ribs, back, shoulder and
rump, thus making sure of an all-round
depreciation of the fleece.
THE PURE MERINO.
“Golightly” : Not many woolgrowers thor-
oughly grip the meaning of true line-breed-
ing and its relation to evenness of type or
quality of fleece in pure merinos. They, all
know a merino from an English crossbred,
but how few know what a inixture of
merino blood and merino types is crossed
within their own flock, attributable to the
changing fashions in merino blood from
decade to decade! One can search district
after district before finding a pure-bred
merino flock absolutely true to its line and
its particular character.
The thorough understanding of line-breea-
ing, simple in itself, wOuld give any wool-
grower a clip that would scarcely need
classing at shearing-time, so even would each
fleece be to its fellow. “We must have a
change of blood every two or three years,”
it is said, and blood lines are so mixed that
the clip represents every variation of quality
of fibre common to the merino sheep. This
is quite unnecessary. Any sheep-farmer
wishing for an even clip has only to decide
once and for all on the type he will produce,
and stick to his chosen line of pure merinos.
The finest of merino wool is the most profit l
able just now. This may or may not
last. If the young sheep-farmer thinks
it will, and is prepared to back his
opinion, he should buy ewes and rams from
a station flock that has never followed the
changing fashions. Such flocks are few and
far between; nevertheless they exist, and
until the beginner has mastered, for himself,
line-breeding, let him year by year replenish
his blood from the same source. Should he
wish to change from fine to medium, and from
medium to strong, it can be done by careful
selection of sheep within his flock that lean
the desired way, yet always retaining his
invaluable line. There are many breeds of
merinos, each excellent in its way. Keep
them pure, and it will pay.
GET IN EARLY.
“Bar K.” : It pays to be early on a farm.
The early bird has a lot of good work done
before a lazy neighbor is stirring, and if
damage to machinery or some other mishap
causes loss of time he still has a show of
putting in a useful day’s toil. On the other
hand, by the time the tired man gets his
repairs "effected it is generally too near
dinner to be worth while hooking up at all.
The man who crops punctually has a
good chance to drill the crop in again should
wet weather or other interference spoil his
seed germination. The man who ploughs
early in the season puts himself in a posi-
tion", if conditions are adverse, to keep his
farm clean. Should excessive wet weather,
such as that recently experienced in N S.
Wales, hold up cultivation for any length oi
time, the weed growth will be mostly young
and tender, and will soon rot into the
ground when turned under. If a farm is
dirty before an extended wet period sets m,
the growth becomes mature, the ground will
take longer to dry up, especially in the
winter, and cultivation will be delayed still
further. By the time the ground is tit to
work, there will be a lot *of trash to turn
under; this will take long to decay and
will greatly hamper cultivation for some
time. The man who farms late usually
scratches his crops in, often too late, for a
decent return, lie is the sort of man who
has most to say about the' hard luck that
put him off the farm.
SEEDING PASTURES.
“Johnno”: “Rooraby” (B- 15/4/31) says
that the regular seeding of pastures tends
to impoverish the soil. This would be true
if the matured seed were consumed by graz-
ing stock, harvested, or wind-scattered over
the countryside; but not when it falls back
to the ground from which it was generated,
to decay without germinating or to germinate
and then decay and be returned to the soil.
In Queensland our most luxuriant grass-
lands are those which are never grazed but
which are allowed to seed as qften as nature
permits them to. Such grass-lands never
becbme exhausted, but increase in fertility
as the years go by.
Left undisturbed, scarcely any crop will
impoverish the ground on which it is grown,
for the reason that the crop returns more
than it took. Sugar-cane is an exhausting
crop, yet plant land with cane and let it
remain/ undisturbed for 10' years'; the cane,
provided no disease attacks it, will be found
growing more vigorously at the end of the
decade than at the beginning. It is the
removal of the produced crop and hot its pro-
duction that impoverishes the soil. It is
advisable that pastures be allowed to seed
at least once every year, otherwise there may
be no seed to strike from should a severe
drought happen along and kill out all the
root stocks of the grass. This happened
throughout the affected area' in the great
drought of 1902. .
LUNG WORMS IN SHEEP.
“OQ. J.” : The presence of lungworms in
sheep is usually due to overstocking or
dirty conditions, Prevention is, of course,
far "better than cure, and can be effected by
pasture rotation and by harrowing grass*
lands as in pasture improvement. The water
supply should be kept free from infection
by larvae and eggs. Stomach worms and,
intestinal worms are usually to be found
where lungworms are present; regular
monthly treatment with carbon tetrachloride
or bluestone will greatly improve the general
condition of the sheep, and increase their
power of resistance to the lungworm. Injec-
tion of drugs will sometimes prove efficacious,
but the operation is a tricky one, and often
hastens the death of the animal.
Symptoms are an irritating cough, accom-
panied by a frothy discharge from the nose,,
often flecked with blood. In the case of
the smaller worms, these symptoms may be
less pronounced, but the animals may develop
symptoms of pneumonia. The sheep will
gradually fall away, and death usually
results from exhaustion, though sometimes
accumulated masses of worms and mucus
in the air tubules of the lungs may cause
sudden suffocation. It can be taken as a
general rule that worms result front over-
stocking, and allowing stock to roam and
feed on country where tlieir droppings harbor
eggs and larvae.
AYRSHIRE OR JERSEY V
“Gordo Blanco” : I have sold many cows
to settlers in dried-fruit districts (Vic.),
where cows are tethered'nine months in the
year. Where the woman’s interest is para-
mount, “a nice little Jersey” is asked for;
her appearance appeals to the feminine eye
for beauty, and because one can only
be kept, the milk is scalded, not separated,
The richer milk and lesser quantity • of the
Jersey are easier' to handle. The Ayrshire
is, however, a far better proposition for the
irrigation-blocker.
A good Ayrshire will give up to five gal-
lons of milk a day, which, when separated,
will fatten two pigs per annum, helped by
house-scraps and a little pollard. Two such
pigs converted into bacon would give at
least 2001 b., at present worth lOd. a
pound wholesale, besides the heads, spare
ribs, liver, lard, etc. Such things are
not to be despised in these hard times.
Bacon can be easily cured on the farm at a
small cost.
RYE ON DAIRY FARMS.
“Curlew” : We Australians should be grow-
ing a great deal more rye. Sown with the
late-summer or early-autumn rains it makes
rapid growth, producing more fodder than
wheat, oats or barley. I have a paddock of
it now in north-east Victoria looking won-
derfully well. It promises a lot of feeding
off up to the first of August; indeed, if there
is the promise of a good spring if may be
grazed bare to the first of September and
may then produce a heavy crop of hay, four
feet in height, or a good yield of grain. But
for hay it must be cut when in flower, or
the stems become too woody to be at their
best. Rye is a strong grower, yet it pays to
prepare the land well and to be liberal with
manure—farmyard particularly. The plant
has one great merit in that it gives weeds
even sorrel —a bad time.
By growing heavy crops of fodder, especi-
ally to be eaten oif, dairy-farm production
may be doubled, and the industry will thus
be placed on a much sounder footing. Rye
for winter pasture, and Japanese millet,
maize, Soudan grass or some of the sorghums
for summer feeding, will ensure heavy yields
of milk at the minimum cost. But the land
must be in good heart and thoroughly pre-
pared. It is not too soon to begin preparing
for summer fodders now.
SUPER. FOR LIVESTOCK.
“Yeoman”>: Every farmer can readily make
good the mineral deficiency of his pastures
by supplying a lick of . super, and salt in
equal quantities. It will be more palatable
if the two ingredients are mixed together
with molasses; it should then be put in a
protective receptacle and placed in a con-
venient position.
The general necessity of phosphoric acid
as a mineral supplement for livestock in
Australia is emphasised by the shortage of
that constituent in. most of our soils, which,
in turn, is reflected in our pastures. Top-
dressing will improve the quality of pas-
tures in that respect, but it will not make
up all the mineral deficiency. Therefore, tne
lick will still be distinctly beneficial.
Where stock are being hand-fed, super,
can be added to the daily ration at the
following rate,: Milking cows, 3oz. to 40z.;
young cattle, lioz. to 20z.; sheep, Joz. to joz.
Salt may be added at the same rates.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
( Transferred from Service Department.)
(.1) Is improved scrub land, close enough
to a sugar-mill for cane to be economically
harvested and. delivered, available for selec-
tion in Queensland? (2) What is the best
way to go about getting a sugar-cane pro-
perty? I have £ BOO. (3) Does the Q land
Agricultural Bank lend money? —2B67.
(1) Don’t know of any. (2) Your best
plan is to purchase a canegrowing property
as a going concern —one which- is already
assigned to a mill arid therefore sure of a
market for the crop. It is possible that
some cane farms can be purchased on a
deposit of £BOO. (3) Yes, on approved secu-
rity,
How and where can the insects which
make Noogbora-burr seed infertile, as men-
tioned on “Land” page (B. 8/4/’3l), be
obtained ?.— 2893.
The Council of Scientific and Industrial
Research is investigating in connection with
its possible use for the control’ of Noogoora
burr an insect (Euaresta . aeq'ualis) that has
been discovered in America. Supplies can-
not be inade generally available until it has
been proved that, the insect will not attack
useful plants.
(1) Are portable wood-burning producer-
gas plants on the market in Australia? If
so, at what price? (2) Has the system been
applied to farm-tractors? (3) Where can I
get further information on the subject? —
2908. ..
(1) They can ,be imported at a cost ot
about £7O. Installation costs about £2O.
(2) Yes. It is used by the Commonwealth
Migration Committee for all farm work, and
on gypsum works in South Australia. See
article B. 29/4/’3l. (3) A. Cooper and
Sons, 610 Church-street, Richmond E.l,
Victoria. ,
Will producer-gas plants run on charcoal
made from malice roots? —2909._
Fuel recommended is wood chips or twigs,
not charcoal.
llow to make a durable whitewash, suit-
able for painting inside a galvmiised-iron
shed?— 2924. ,
Put lumps of fresh lime in the largest
bucket liandy. Pour in. hot water, keeping
the lime, which starts breaking up and boil-
ing, covered with about Jin. water; otherwise
it will curdle. Before the slaking lime com-
mences boiling fiercely add tallow or common
fat in the proportion of lib. or 21b. to 71b.
lime. This binder should prevent the wash
rubbing off. When thoroughly slaked stir,
adding sufficient water to make it a little
heavier than milk; then strain. This white-
wash may be applied whilst hot.
(1.) Fertilisers to use on young citrus,
fig and peach trees growing in sandy sod
with gravelly clay subsoil? (2) Method of
(Continued on page 26.)


Hi!
m
s
i
«
;i.iy
££ c —*
sener
6 1
t ; •"!!'
ii Hi'inf
* 11 1 jii
i; i'i
1
USSwi
I 11 'i'll
I-1 >.n
ii
as "i
a»
in.
if 1 ' 11 C
* Lsiiii '
ri,"..r ,
i:!::siiniir *i
' ’"! '!»II 111 lf /
HS
■■ ~ 11
EXP
N
tiled BV
i. LIMIT
ewery
EY
P> V
si>
•^S
JU'tL //
'll
■aMßr*
Ss
■c*.
S-AX
I
a
- f
t?U
V ■=
7 "
I
, •*
-
-
9
? " -„r,
»
v.
=> ,
©'•:


m
r,:
The secret of its
durability
Careful building up on a special
Abbey last makes this Cossack
fit with greatest ease. There’s
no dragging strain which hurts
the foot and wears the upper.
And, the leather chosen is the
toughest that can be used. The
sole, is double thickness. . . .
the upper lined throughout with
soft leather. Withal, the Abbey
Cossack is surprisingly flexible.
Extra wear is absolutely guar-
anteed.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- and 40/-
Black Box Calf 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 228.
Hf
✓
Ring up England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales or twenty
European countries, Canada,
New Zealand, U.S.A., Mex-
ico, Cuba and Java from your
own home or office via
A.W. A.
Radiophone
Telegraph England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, North and
South America and all Euro-
pean countries via
Beam Wfreles§
Telegraph your friends at sea
and in the Pacific Islands via
COASTAL
Radio Service
For full information telephone A.W.A.
offices, Sydney 8W2211, or Mel-
bourne F 4161, and ask for "Traffic,"
or apply at any Post Office or at
Amalgamated Wireless (A'sia) Ltd.,
47 York St., Sydney; 167-9 Queen St.,
Melbourne; Collins House, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance .
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits. n/wim
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
w
*OUS
I-?'*!®
Shocks n
VJbratio^
l]our £xide Battery is built to stand them aIL
No ordinary battery
could stand up to the
service a motor cycle
battery is expected to
give; mounted on the
frame it receives every
shock of the road,
Exide motor cycle bat-
teries are built to stand
just this kind of abuse
—made as strongly as a
battery can be made.
With an Exide Motor
Cycle Battery, you can
rely on instant response
for all lighting or igni-
tion needs.
The Long Life Battery
FOR MOTOR CYCLES, CARS,
RADIO and HOME LIGHTING
N.S.W.—Exide Battery Service (Gibson,
Battle & Co., Ltd.), Hunt aim
Commonwealth Streets, Sydney.
Vie. & Riverina. —A. P. Sutherland,
Queen’s Bridge, South Melbourne
Queensland.— Exide Battery Service (Q.),
Ltd., .Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Sturt Street, Townsville.
South Australia.—Unbehaun & h “ tone ’
Ltd. 97. Currie Street, Adelaide.
Westralia.— if. J- Bateman, Ltd., Magneto
House, Milligan Street Perth - ...
Tasmania.—Medhurst & Sons > Coll n ‘
Street, Hobart.
applying? (3) How much per tree? (4)
When to apply?— 2947.
(1) For citrus, by weight, 2 parts sul-
phate of potash, 3 parts sulphate of ammonia,
3 parts super. For peaches, figs and apples,
2 parts sulphate of potash, 2 parts sulphate
of ammonia, and 4 parts of super. (2)
Apply around the trees in the vicinity of and
beyond the terminals of the roots, and work
well into the soil, so that the fertiliser is
thoroughly incorporated with it. (3) For
citrus trees, 41b. to 61b. per tree, according
to age, at each dressing. For peaches and
apples, two-thirds of these quantities. (4)
Apply before spring growth, again during
January or February. Also give a light top-
dressing of not more than ljcwt. per acre
of nitrate of soda when the fruit is about
one-third grown.
(1) Value of poultry production in
H.S.W.? (2) Docs the amount include cost
of feeding? (3) How much wheat per annum
do N.S.W. poultry-farmers use?— 29l7.
(1) In the year 1928-29, £3,089,000. (2)
No. (3) Approximately 3,000,000 bushels.
(1) Has the process'of preserving dairy
produce, fruit and fruit juices under vacuum
proved successful? (2) Has it a commercial
future in competition with other forms of
food preservation, such as canned goods? (3)
Was an attempt made to float a co. for this
purpose about three years ago, and did it
commence operations ? —2642.
(1) It was tried in M.L. and did not
prove successful with cheese for export, but
was all right for cheese for local consump-
tion. Butter exported in tins under vacuum
opened up in London in good condition. It
is claimed by those interested in the process
that the principle is quite successful in the
preservation of fruit juices and pulp. (2)
The process is probably too expensive tor
packing butter and cheese for local consump-
tion. If proved reliable its simplicity should
make it compare more than favorably with
standard fruit-preserving practices when
dealing with soft fruit pulp and juices. (•!)
Cheese and butter packing was carried out
by Vacuum Products (N.Z.), Ltd., operating
at lla'wera. which devoted some attention
to fruit-packing as well. Certain small cos.
have been formed during the past 18 months
for the purpose of fruit-juice preservation,
but so far little has been heard of then-
activities.
(1) Is banana-drying for figs a profitable
venture? (2) Is there a good market, and
what is the average price per pound? (3)
What is the composition of the syrup in
which the fruit is immersed? (4) Any text-
books?—2SM.
(1) Can’t say. In Queensland it has been
tried only in a small way. (2) There being
no banana-figs on the market, price cannot be
quoted. (3) Sugar and water, heated by
steam or boiled under vacuum. (4) Know
of none.
Proper diet for sheep-dog imps a month
old to encourage growth? Some of my
former pups have been dwarfed. 0120.
Morning feed: 4oz. mincemeat and one
teaspoon cod-liver oil and malt extract. Mid-
day • 4oz. mincemeat, 2oz. hard-baked dog
biscuit (broken in small lumps) and, one
tablespoon bonemeal. Evening: 4oz. mince,
one teaspoon cod-liver oil and malt extract.
Occasionally give milk and green vegetables.
(1) Have pineapples been grown with
success in N.S.W.? If so, where? (2)
Is the Hunter River district suitable ? —
2991.
(1) There is no record of trials in N.S.W.
excepting small plots in the n.-e. portion ot
the State, from which the financial returns
were not considered satisfactory. (2) No.
The plant being essentially tropical is very
susceptible to injury by frost.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“J.W.W.” : Many fruit-farmers make bul-
locking work of irrigating, and finish knocked
up after watering heavy soil. The reason
is that the shovel has been carrying pounds
of mud, and that means pounds extra with
every throw. Make your shovel clean itself,
so to speak. Wash off all dirt, then dry it;
next rub with a kerosene-rag and let it dry
itself; repeat this operation ; now dig a little
in the sandiest place you have near till the
tool starts to brighten, rub kero, on again and
get into the work. The trouble of carrying
a piece of hoop hung at the side and scraping
off any mud that forms is well repaid. A hen
going to dig dip the shovel in water and
dig while the film of water is still on it.
Once it is nicely brightened use a coating
of vaseline to guard against rust.
“Gardener”: If your vegetable garden is
apt to get too wet in winter try digging a
number of trenches. These can be filled up
with manure or compost in spring, and will
make the needed drainage for a season.
Ground that gets too wet is both cold and
heavy, and that means late spring crops.
“Disc Harrow”: When the oil-sprayings
come on, if you decide to use a cheaper brand
in place of the expensive red oil you may
find it hard to emulsify. Crude oil can be
easily emulsified if mixed first with the same
quantity of rich, hot soapy water, and there's
nothing better to do the job with than the
ordinary kerosene-tin hand-pump. Spray the
melted soap forcefully into the oil, then
spray the mixture back again into an empty
tin; it may then be tipped into the vat.
If a tin of soap and water is left on the
fire every time you go out with a vat, there
need be no delay. It is important to have
the soap and water hot.
“Blackburn”: If the spray-pump engine
runs irregularly or stops without reason
during work, try wrapping the sparking plug
round with a, piece of hessian. Wet spray
getting on the plug may be causing the
trouble.
“Gardenia”: A winter reminder for
the orchard —keep off the ground as much
as possible after ploughing, especially if the
soil is inclined to be clayey. Walking about
on it when wet tends to pack it down and
helps to bring on sourness.
“Dai R.” • Don’t forget that sheep manure
is excellent for the farm garden. Half-fill
kerosene-tins, cover well with water, allow
to stand for a day or two, and then pound
with a piece of three-inch green timber hav-
ing a straight-sawn end. Spread over beds,
and watering will dissolve and wash right
into the soil. It’s rich in plant essentials.
“J. Point”: Should farmers buy day-old
chicks or breed their own? Buy the chicks,
I say. Suppliers must maintain a high stan-
dard, and purchasers can generally depend
upon getting better stock than they could
themselves breed except with great trouble
and expense. Three years ago I pointed
out that Australian prices for day-olds were
approximately double those ruling in the
U.S.A. Since then there has been a decided
downward tendency, but prices are still too
liifeh, especially in view of the climatic and
other advantages _ enjoyed by most of our
poultry-farming districts over Uncle Sam s.
“Hornby”: Empty tea-chests make ideal
fowl coops. Nail a couple of 4x 4 battens
across the bottom to keep them off the
ground, and a few slats across the top hall
of the opening to prevent the wind having
too much play with the straw. A piece of
felt case-lining on top and a “front cur-
tain,” made of an old wheat-bag, coming
about two-thirds down, are improvements.
The curtain can be dropped in wet weather.
“Curlew” : Japanese millet is an excellent
substitute for lucerne. A neighbor in n.-e.
Victoria sowed 14 acres of well-prepared
land last spring. He topped off 160 lambs,
grazed a lot of other sheep, then allowed it
to partly mature. He cut 12 tons of excellent
hay, and after chaffing it had a quantity of
seed sifted by the riddles. There will be
more Jap. millet grown in our district this
summer.
“W. 0.”: “Kooragai’s” crow-trap (B.
15/4/’3l) is interesting. I caught a ’possum
the other night on a similar principle—one-
way traffic only. It had been helping itself
to my apples, entering the shed under the
eaves, where there was just space enough.
I closed up most of it with boards, while
at the place where ’poss. apparently entered I
lightly nailed a flap of galvanised-iron, with
sufficient opening and give to _ allow the
thief to push its way in, certain to close
on his neck when it tried to push its way
out. Next morning I found ’possum junior
roosting on a ledge behind a horse-collar.
“Jethro”: Grounding of wire fences in
hilly country—not a difficult item —will pre-
vent stock being struck by lightning. Old
piping makes good lightning rods, cut to
post lengths, placed 70 to 100 yards m the
fence line, or on the top of each lull when
these are not far apart. Heavy galvanised-
wire is the most suitable material for ground
wires, care being taken to see that each fence
wire is securely attached; put wires well
down in moist soil even if it means sinking
a few feet for it. Break the electrical con-
tinuity of the fence between each lightning
rod with pieces of non-conducting wood.
“Gordo 1 Blanco”: There is no more exas-
perating job on a farm than changing plough-
shares. No plough will go into the ground
with a share bevelled upwards at the point,
and the nuts are usually well rusted on.
Moreover, the manufacturer perhaps con-
siders it a solemn duty to fit a different-sized
nut to eaefi share, and to issue a spanner
which fits none of them. The stubbornest nut
will yield to patience and a pint of vinegar
in an old oilcan. Work the vinegar round
the base and top of nut for a while. _ Before
re-assembling soak bolt and nut in oil.
“Bill R.”: A tethered calf or goat often
tangles himself up, but he won’t if you fasten
the line to an old outer motor-tyre thrown
over the post. In feeding about the animal
can circle the area at leisure, and _ the
trouble* of frequently loosing him is avoided.
“Bushman”: To prevent waste of time
and temper trying to strain barb-wire, tie
a tail of plain wire at both ends; this facili-
tates both tying and straining.
“G D M.” • For mending cracks in steam,
hot-water and hot-air pipes and boilers,
use coarsely powdered iron filings 51b., pow-
dered sal-ammoniac 2oz„ sulphur loz., and
water sufficient to make the mass moist
Use as soon as possible after mixing and
ram mixture tightly into the break. For
iron pots and pans, take 2 parts sulphur and
1 part, by weight, of fine blacklead. Put
sulphur into an old iron pan, holding over
a fire until melting begins; then add black- ,
lead. Stir until thoroughly mixed and then |
pour out into a shallow vessel. When cool,
break into small pieces. Enough of this
compound should be placed in the crack, and
a tinsmith’s iron applied as in soldering tin-
ware.
“Kripple”: When erecting new or re-
erecting old shearing machinery, say, of tne
Lister type, try fixing it 4in. lower than
the height set out, and cut gut cores
and long tubes to suit. No disadvantages
will accrue, and it will save the expert
from diragging a stepladder up and down
the shearing-board, as a result of which
practice fleeces are often torn and shearers
and shed-liands obstructed in their work.
It is also a safety-first measure, and it will
bring the friction-cone spindles within easy
reach of the shearers.
“W.H.P.”: No doubt a pound for wil-
leying and sorting wool (B. 8/4/’3l) seems
a bit stiff, but extra hands are needed; the
process mixes the fibres so that they cannot
be separated. A woolbuyer who wanted a
64’s wool would not buy a line of bales
into which had been put three or four dif-
ferent qualities all mixed together, no matter
how small the sand contents. The same
applies to small graziers washing their own
locks and stains. It is better for small lines
of wool to be classed as well as possible,
the large manufacturer being left to do the
scouring. All classes of wool, even locks,
are sorted at the mills before being pi
through any process, and therefore the man ,
who wishes to get an extra penny per pound I
for his wool by willeymg or washing should
sort it well.
“IVFoil”: While wool prices are low more (
publicity should be given to its use as a
mattress filling. Kapok is imported and re- ,
tailed at about a shilling a pound In a
couple of years this is worn into dust, and
is daily swept laboriously from every nook
of the bedroom; moreover, this kapok dust
causes—or at least aggravates—colds and
catarrh. Coarse wool is almost as durable j
as horsehair, and only a fraction of the price.
Wool will stand up to any honest soap-and- |
water-and-sun cleansing. After years of wear
a fresh teasing leaves it as good as new. j


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are'not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-A.I.F. officer (34), with accountancy, secretarial,
storekeeping and sales exp., wants position in country
town or on station, anywhere.—32l7.
By middle-aged lady teacher, position in subsidised
school of private tuition. Free end of May. Refs.
—3OBl.
Young woman (24) wants position as domestic
or help on Q’land station. Refs.—3o7B.
Wanted saleable lines by traveller doing shops
and farms in farming districts', Vic. —3103.
Young man (21), with teaching exp., wants posi-
tion anywhere.—3l99.
Clerk (19), Vic., five years’ exp., wants job in
country. Refs.—3l72.
Painter, Sydney, wants work. Interiors a specialty.
Estimates given.—3176.
Voung accountant, 12 years’ exp., wants clerical
position Northern Australia, New Guinea or the
Islands. Refs.—3l94.
By girl (17J) with junior pass, position in Q’land
as governess or companion. Can cook and make
dresses.—32o4.
Young woman (21) wants position as cook-general
where little boy l£ years can be taken. Exp.—32o9.
Young lady, Sydne3 r , graduate business college,
wants job in city office. —3146.
Experienced man wanted to look after N.S.W.
citrus orchard. —3208.
Prospector with exp. in Australia and F.M.S. will
give services to prospecting parties on share basis.
—3223.
Wireless set, five or six valves, wanted for Abo-
riginal Half-caste Home, Central Aust., gift or very
easy terms. (G. Freeman, Supt. Jay Creek, Alice
Springs, C.A.)
To buy copy of “Australian Nursery Rhymes,” pub-
lished in The Bulletin and reprinted in book form
—3144.
To buy or borrow English translations of Nor-
wegian novels. —3097.
To buy obsolete pistols or revolvers.—3o9o.
Words of verse beginning “She had sky-blue hair
and rosy eyes and cheeks of a golden hue.”—3l43.
Whereabouts of Ted Hawkins, of Ballarat, late
Australian Light Horse, last heard of at Atherton and
Barcaldine (Q.). —3132.
Whereabouts of Arthur Yandell (of S. Aus.), who
returned from U.S.A. about 1922. —3116.
To buy biography of Melba by Agnes Murphy.
—3182.
To buy handbook for 1929 Essex, also “Motor Life,
Australia,” for February 8, 1930.—3202.
To buy, Tom Collins’s “Such Is Life.”—3226.
Words of verse “Travelling Down from Dubbo in
the Rain.”—3222.
Information Sought.
IT' hat are the distinguishing features of
the philomel and the alto philomel? —3oB7.
The philomel is tuned similarly to the
violin, but is strung with steel wire. It has
a body with incurvations similar to those
of the guitar. The peg-box sometimes ter-
minates in a fancy head instead of a scroll.
The alto philomel is larger and deeper in
tone, corresponding to the viola.
What roses are suitable for N.S.W. sandy
coastal districts? How to grow them? liow
to treat the soil to stimulate growth? When
to plant? —3o36.
Maman Cochet (white and pink), Radiance
(red and pink), Hadley (red), Etoile de
Hollande (red), Georges Schwartz (yellow),
Frau Karl Druschki (white) and Madam
Segond Weber (rosy salmon). Dig a trench
2ft. deep and place in it a false bottom of
sheets _of iron, stones, rubbish, etc., then
tread in a foot of cow manure and heavy
soil. Plants on their own roots are prefer-
able, and can be obtained from nurserymen
if sufficient time is allowed to grow them.
From May to July is planting-time.
(3) Number of primary producers in Aus-
tralia? (2) Amount of taxation each has
to carry (a) to pay interest and redemption
on State and Federal loans, (b) to pay cost
of administration and other Government ex-
penses? (3) What is the average weekly
income of persons engaged in primary pro-
duction, after paying all taxes and costs.
(4) Difference between average production
wages and the average stipend, in the Civil
Service?> —3B37.
(1) 710,000 as at June 30 last. (2) The
ratio of all governmental expenditure in
IJ-9-30 was approximately 25 p.c. on interest
and sinking fund and 75 p.c. on other pur-
poses. (3) In the last quarter of 1930
the average wage of adults in all occupations
was 965. 9d. per week for males and 535. 6d.
for females. These rates have since been
substantially reduced. (4) The average
salary in the Commonwealth Public Service
at July 1, 1930, was £5 14s. 3d. This has
since been reduced. No separate figures for
primary producers.
a °t course a.t Sydney Marconi
School? (2) Length? (3) Would an inter-
mediate certificate be sufficient for entrance
qualification? (4) Is a student competent
to take a practical position at end' of course?
(o) Does the school assist in finding em-
ployment? (6) Is 23 too old to commence the
course? —3o9l.
(1) and (2) Technicians’ course, six to
twelve months according to the ability of
the student, ±25. Marine operators’ course,
about 18 months, £5O. The school is about to
introduce talkie and radio engineers’ courses
taking about four years. (3) Yes. (4) Yes.’
He is eligible for a position at sea if success-
ful in passing the P.M.G.’s examination. (5)
Yes. (6) No.
HoiO. should a good violin be cared for so
as to bring out and improve tone? —3076.
The instrument should be protected from
damp and sudden changes of temperature;
kept clean and strung with good-quality
strings of correct gauge. Last, but not least,
regularly practise scales on all strings. A. E.
Smith and Co., Hunter-street.. Sydney, pub-
lish “Hints on the Care of Violins,” free on
application.
How can I eliminate interference between
various Sydney broadcasting stations, using
a crystal receiver at Campsie?— 3l36.
The principal stations can be tuned in
separately by using loose coupling between
the aerial and secondary coils. This results
in a decrease of volume, necessitating a sen-
sitive pair of headphones. A loose-coupler is
probably the best arrangement, the secondary
being tuned with a 0.0005 MF condenser.
There are many cheap publications on cry-
stal receivers employing loose-couplers.
In euchre may a player order an oppo-
nent up without having a strong hand in
trump cards himself, to prevent the oppo-
nent scoring four points? —3l9o.
He may, but English Hoyle says, “No pru-
dent player will order up the trump unless
his hand is sufficiently strong to render his
chances of success beyond reasonable doubt.”
American Hoyle recommends it, when the
score is 4-4, if the eldest hand is “as strong
in the suit turned up as in any other suit.”
(1) Are benzol, benzene and benzine the
same? (2) How are benzol and benzene
manufactured? —3210.
(1) Benzol and benzene, which arc de-
rived from coal or wood, are the same. Ben-
zine. is derived from petroleum. (2) Coal
is distilled in a limited supply of air, taking
off the volatile constituents, which are sub-
sequently refined.
(1) What were the factors responsible for
the bank failures in 1893? (2) What were
the effects on employment and living condi-
tions ? —3222.
(1) Over-borrowing by banks and others
from overseas, especially Scotland ; weaken-
ing markets for our products; demand for
repayment of deposits ; pressure upon banks’
borrowing clients; forced sales; reduced
prices; increased demand for repayment of
deposits.... and so the thing went on, accen-
tuated by the continued fall in prices (of
wool, etc.), which had caused the original
shrinkage in confidence. (For a longer
review, see B. 19/11/’30.) (2) In 1889
there were 57,342 hands in Vic. and 45,564
in N.S.W. factories. In 1893 the figures
were back to 39.473 and 38,918 respectively
Australian suicides: 1206 in 1881-85 ; 1984
in 1891-95. (The figures under-this head-
ing were worst in Queensland and Westralia
and best in 8. Aus.) Coghlan wrote (“Seven
Colonies of Australasia,” 1900) : “In the
year 1892 an estimate was made of the
yearly expenditure of the population of N. S.
Wales, and it was found it amounted to
£55,445,000; during the following years
there were shrinkages in income and expendi-
ture on luxuries, and a revision of figures in
1894 brought out a total some 16 p.c. lower.
Since 1895 a material improvement has
taken place, and a revision of the figures
made for the year 1899 gave a total of
£52.563,000, or only about 5 p.c. less than
in 1892.”
(1) If Carlton, running on a track, and
Brown, skating on ice, were to race over
100 yards, who would win? (2) The fastest
speed ( m.p.h .) ever attained on ice skates?
—2929.
(1) With a standing start the sprinter
should get home first. (2) There is no
reliable record. F. W. Dix has been credited
with a “world’s record” of 2min. 27 l-ssec.
for the mile.
(1) Did the Maoris find an aboriginal
race in M.L. akin to the 'Pas. or Australian
abos., and do any of these people survive?
(2 ) Is there a Portuguese settlement in M.L.
descended from the Portuguese brought in by
Governor \Grey, or did they merge into the
general population? (3) Is thci-e a French
settlement, or did the early French settlers
merge mto the general population? —2776.
(1) According to Maori legend a race
called the Morioris were in possession when
the first Maoris arrived. They were slaugh-
tered or enslaved, and the last remnant took
refuge in the Chatham Islands. In 1835.
when about 2000 survived, the Maoris
Commandeered a brig and made a raid
on them. In 1900 only 20 remained,
and the race is now extinct. Ethnological! y
the Morioris were a separate type, akin
neither to the Polynesians nor the Australian
natives. (2) If Grey did import any Portu-
guese:—we can’t trace a record of it —they
were absorbed. (3) No special settlement,
but at Akaroa, in the South Island, there is
a French community, distinct still though
many inter-marriages with British settlers
and their descendants have taken place.
(1) Cost, of a marriage license in N.S.W.?
(2) Can a marriage be performed by a minis-
ter or at a registry office in a district where
neither party has previously resided, and
could they arrive there and be married the
same day ? —2930.
(1) Marriage licenses are not issued in
N.S.W. (2) A marriage by a Registrar can
only be celebrated in the district in which
the intended wife ordinarily resides. A
registered minister may perform a marriage
between parties who do not reside in his
district.
My hair is falling down two channels
from the forehead, especially after combing.
Little or no dandruff is present. Age 28*
Any cure? —3o72.
Baldness is of two kinds, the ordinary
incurable variety and Alopecia areata, which
practically cures itself. In either case all
that can helpfully be done is to wash your
head daily and give it light massage.
(i) I have a tank set 18 ft. high, with
lji'/i. p'lpiibcj . Will I yet a better pressure
if the first 6ft. or Bft. of piping is din.?
(2) I am using \in. taps. Would I get a
i better pressure from a liin. main than from
tin.?— 3o2l.
(1) No. (2) No; fin.- or lin. pipe would
answer just as well as ljin. (or larger) pipe
to feed one -Jin. tap.
How much interest docs Australia pay
annually to Britain, and how much of it is
on war loans? —3os2.
As at .Tune 30, 1930, and inclusive of
exchange, £25,185,900, of which £4,647,992
was payable in respect of war loans.
(1) What is meant l>y reaction as unplied
to a wireless receiver? (2) Does a receiver
require modification to reproduce gramophone
records ? —3816.
(1) If the amplified currents flowing in
the plate circuit of a three-electrode valve
are fed back to its grid circuit, the plate
circuit is said to react on the grid circuit.
The losses in the grid circuit are reduced to
any desired extent and a greater degree of
amplification results. If these losses are
completely overcome, the circuit is set into
self-oscillation and the receiver will cause
interference to near-by listeners who tune
to the same wave-length. (2) Generally
speaking, no. Special plugs or adaptors are
supplied as a rule with the pick-up for
connection to the detector-valve socket.
Adhere to the instructions enclosed in the
box.
(1) Can I instal a wireless receiver in a
motor-ear? (2) What type of circuit would
he most suitable? (3) Can the set be oper-
ated with the car running? (4) Type of
aerial most suitable? (5) Can I use the
car battery for filament supply? —3l9l.
(1) Yes. (2) Three S.G. radio; detector
and two audio stages carefully screened in
an iron box. (3) Yes, if steps are taken
to eliminate ignition interference by effect-
ively shielding all ignition circuits. A resist-
ance element of 30,000 ohms should also be
placed in each spark-plug wire. (4) Multi-
wire aerial placed under roof of car. The
receiver should be grounded to the frame.
(5) Yes, provided the filament circuit is
correctly wired and the battery leads
are fused and screened. For full particulars
see “American Radio News,” April, 1930.
How to grow staghorns, elkhorns and
birds’s-nest ferns? —3105.
Staghorns and'elkhorns should be tied to
hardwood boards or a stump, using covered
wire. Later, when the plants are established,
some very old manure or decayed moss and
leaves can be packed in. Water once a week.
A sheltered position is most suitable. Bird’s-
nest ferns can be grown in a tub or in open
soil which contains a good proportion of
sandy loam,. Keep the centre of the plant
free from leaves and rubbish so that the
fronds may develop. Allow for considerable
growth.
Is there a cure for lead-poisoning, especi-
ally that form, which affects the limbs and
body rather than the lungs? Any institu-
tion in Sydney or Melbourne where a patient
of limited means might be treated? What
kind of climate would assist recovery? —
2743.
Lead-poisoning generally improves slowly
if the patient is removed from all sources
of infection. You could get expert treat-
ment by a medical specialist at one of the
big Sydney or Melbourne hospitals.
(1) A batsman in attempting to play a
ball on the leg side missed the ball, which
was taken by the wicketkeeper. The batsman
overbalanced and trod on his wicket. The
umpire said “not out ” his reason being that
the ball was dead. Was the batsman out?
(2) A batsman hit a. ball high in the air,
and he and his partnei' ran one, started on a
second and had crossed, when the ball was
caught. Was any run scored? (3) A bowler
hit the wicket at the batsman’s end, but the
bail only moved out of the groove at the top
of the stump and did not fall off. Was the
batsman out ? —3139.
(1) Yes. The ball could not be said to be
“finally settled” in the ’keeper’s hands. See
law 34. (2) No. See law 32. (3) Yes,
under law 21.
Can wild wilga and myall trees be trans-
planted ? —3040.
Seedlings should be lifted carefully so as
to prevent the roots from being injured, and
conveyed to the garden or other place care-
fully wrapped in damp soil or wet sackcloth.
Select the smallest plants you can find.
Larger plants can be transplanted, but if any
of the roots are broken the plants will die
unless carefully shaded for a week or two
and judiciously watered.
(1) What happens in poker if there are
not sufficient cards in the stock to complete
a draw? (2) Can a player who has been
given more or less cards than he has asked
for call upon the dealer to rectify the error?
—3229.
(1) The number there is. less the bottom
card, is taken, the balance being given from
the other players’ discards, which must be
shuffled. (2) Yes, provided he has not
picked up any of the cards so given him. If
he has been given too few cards, the error
can be rectified any time before the betting
begins.
What sort of timber does scrub hickory
(Pentaceras australis) produce? Is it suit-
able for cabinet making? —323o.
It is hard, close-grained, pale yellowish in
color, dresses well and takes a fine polish,
which brings out a natural sheen not shown
by planing. It would make elegant furniture
in light-colored suites, and look well in panel-
ling. It is suitable for any class of cabinet
work where strength and durability are
required.
(1) Area of a hockey ground and how is
the ground laid out? (2) Dimensions and
construction of the goal-posts?. —322S.
(1) The ground must be rectangular, 100
yards long, and not more than 60 yards nor
less than 55 yards wide. It must be marked
with white lines in accordance with a plan
obtainable from most sporting dealers. (2)
A goal is placed in the centre of each goal-
line, and consists of two posts, 4 yards apart
(inside measurement), joined together bv
a horizontal crossbar 7 feet from the ground.
The goal-posts must not extend onwards
beyond the cross bar, nor the crossbar side-
ways beyond the goal-posts. The posts must
be two inches broad and not more than three
inches in depth, and the crossbar must have
rectangular sides. Nets must be attached to
the posts, crossbars, and to the ground behind
the goals. ,
Brief Answers.
N.8.A.: There is no truth in the rumor.
. ...J.0.Y.: To matriculate in engineering' in Q’land
Uni., a candidate must pass in a selection of senior
subjects, including English, a language other than
English, mathematics A, geography and physics.
There are no means of qualifying for a degree by a
correspondence course.... G.A.C.: Not under the
N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act, but nothing to
prevent partners effecting a personal accident policy.
.. •. W.: There are no classes you could
attend, as employment at the trade is a necessary
qualification. Keeble’s “Cabinetmaking Theory and
Practice” is a good book, and the periodical “Wood-
work” would also be helpful. .. .M.D.S.: Singing
carinot be taught by correspondence. .. .F.K.: Pros-
pects of the Angora fur industry are p00r....
J.C.8.: If no control is exercised as to the
manner in which the work is performed, no liability
will attach to you under the N.S.W. Workers’ Com-
pensation Act. ... J.McN.: (1) T. Robinson and Sons,
and Henry Simon, Ltd., Sydney, supply flour-milling
plant. (2) Waters Trading Co., Robert Harper and
Co., and Clifford Love and Co., Sydney, buy rice. (3)
£24 per ton, f.0.b., Sydney, for husked unpolished
rice. (4) Malting barley, about 3s. 6d. per bushel.
(5) Wheat, f.a.q., 2s. sd. per bushel, Sydney. (6)
Weight per bushel of unpolished rice cannot be given ;
paddy, 421 b. (7) Weight per bushel of barley, 501 b.
(8) Weight per bushel of wheat, f.a.q., 59£lb
Eclipse: There are a couple of eclipses of the moon
usually every year, and it would be as logical to blame
the eclipses for abnormal conditions as to blame
abnormal conditions for eclipses. Nothing will be found
in any textbook on this matter.. . .M.A.S.: Send samples
to M. F. Hodge, Grenfell Chambers ; E. and W. Hacket,
Rundle-street; Dalgety and Co. and Elder, Smith
and Co., in Adelaide, asking them to make an offer.
. ...W.H.N.: (1) and (2) There are Government and
private funds for wool research. Data as to ex-
penditure is not available. (3), (4) and (5) There
is no one person in charge, but the various bodies
engaged are in touch and are complementary to each
other. (6) Extensive investigations of the blow-
fly pest have been carried out by the N.S.W. Agri-
culture Department and the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, and are being continued. (7)
N.S.W. Agriculture Department will supply infor-
mation on application. (8) Through the activities
of the State Agriculture Departments... . J.F.J, : No
chance of getting a cane-cutting job in Q’land by letter.
Newchums aren’t wanted... .H.F.: (1) Best for ex-
port and local trade are Granny Smith, Jonathan,
Delicious and Rome Beauty. Northern Spy is not
worth growing. (2) C. E. Messervy, 29 Pembroke-
street, Epping; or H. Pickard, Craigland’s Stud
Poultry Farm, Canley Yale, may be able to supply
Rhode Island Reds... .H.R.8.: 29 acres 22J sq. yarxls.
... .R.W.R.: By Leigh Hunt. .. .F.W.: A single man
in receipt of 10s. 6d. per week is not eligible to
receive food relief in N. S. Wales... .S.G.: You
need not pay the fee....T.8.: The Fair Rents Act
(N.S.W.) does not apply to shops and their attached
residences R.H.J.: The Act does not apply to a
mortgage executed after December 19, 1930, if the
mortgage agreement excludes its provisions... .C. 8.:
No, except by creating an insurance fund out of the
club’s money, if its rules permit this being done.
. ...F.C.K.: (1) Not much more than a living at
present. (2) No. (3) Yes H.G.R.: (1) Yes,
unless you can show that by long, uninterrupted use
you have established a right-of-way. (2) Don’t
attempt it unless you want trouble... .F.G.M.:
Couldn’t determine value without inspection. Sub-
mit them to a dealer in antiques... .J.H.: Can’t
advise without full particulars... J.D.: Apply to matron
for admission as trainee. Regulations may be obtained
from the Registrar, Nurses Board, 352 Collins-street,
Melbourne. .. .F.C.M.: Apparently, yes; but cannot
say definitely without full knowledge of agreement.
. ...S.H.M.: Dr. Ratten is surgical superintendent
at Hobart General Hospital and is not privately
practising except in case of accident L.C.: Chap-
pell and Co., 50 New Bond-street, London, W.l;
Walter Jacobs Inc., 120 Boylston-street, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A G.W.8.: (1) Only in the “Answers
to Correspondents” column. (2) You might try A.
G. Stephens, Box 711 G, G.P.0., Sydney... .W.E.W.:
Thos. Robinson and Son, 192 Clarence-street, Sydney.
.... K.W.W.: Lyceum is the Latin name of a gymna-
sium and garden with covered walks near the temple of
Apollo Lyceus at Athens. Aristotle taught here, and
hence the name was applied to his school of philosophy.
The name has been used in many languages for
places of instruction, etc A.A.: The balance to
the credit of the Loan Fund Account of Q’land on
June 30, 1929, was £4,825,284 12s. lOd D.Y.:
Chances are practically hopeless. Many experienced
men are on the waiting list.... M.W.: Maundy coins
are silver coins of nominal value of !»1., 2d. and
4d. struck annually for distribution in connection
with the ceremony of washing the feet of the poor
on Maundy Thursday. The feet-washing ceremony
is now obsolete, but the Royal maundy is distributed
annually on behalf of the Sovereign... .F.S.P.': Try
an advt. in the “Montreal Herald” or “Montreal
Star,” or write to the police at that city....
C.L.W.: Colyer’s “Dental Surgery and Pathology,”
Johnson’s “Textbook of Operative Dentistry,” Prinz’s
“Dental Materia Mediea and Therapeutics”... ,R.J.:
From Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street,
Sydney, ss. per 100....N.D.: According to the
“Soviet Union Year-Book” (1930), the Communist
party in Russia had at July 1, 1929, a total member-
ship of 1,554,012, or 184 per 10,000 of adult popu-
lation... .D.P.H.: Try washing the dogs in washing-
soda and water, a tablespoonful to the gallon, and
after drying smear the heavily coated parts with a
solution of 1 part kerosene and 8 parts fish oil.
. ...J.E.A.: If you can’t get medicine into the dog’s
mouth, the only alternatives are injections by a
vet N.L.: (1) The effect is obtained by drawing
with crayon on a rough-surfaced art board, which
can be obtained from Corders, Swanston-street, Mel-
bourne. A block has been made from which the
sample was printed. Boards are of various qualities
and are very cheap... .J.F.K.: (1), (2) and (3)
Send it to a London literary agent. (4) Yes. (5)
Register of Copyrights, Library of Congress, Washing-
ton, D.C., U.S.A. (6) “Where and How to Sell
Manuscripts,” by McCourtie W.A.M.C.: The dele-
gation to the Imperial Conference in 1930 cost
Australia £7289. .. .C.K.: Not subject to either State
or Federal taxation. .. .C.E.W.: From Adam Lindsay
Gordon’s “Ye Wearie Wayfarer”. .. .P.H.T.; Methods
of preserving salmon and other fishes are detailed
in Stevenson’s paper, “The Preservation of Fishery
Products for Food,” in a bulletin of the U.S. Fisheries
Commission, vol. XVIII, 1899. Try a letter to Henry
O’Malley, Commissioner, U.S. Bureau of Fisheries,
Washington, U.S.A A.J.H.: W. J. Chidley
K.W.H.: (1) From bunting, a light woollen material.
(2) A male swan is known as a cob swan. (3)
Four gills equal one pint... .S.H.: You were answered
on March 4....J.5.C.: Write Under-Sees, of Lands,
Perth and Brisbane, and Under-Sec., Home Affairs,
Canberra A.W.H.: Blondin came to Australia
in 1874 and gave performances in a tent in the
Sydney Domain. It was L’Estrange, described as the
“Australian Blondin,” who walked across Middle
Harbor on a rope... .E.N.M.L.; They were
published in 1918 and are now out of print. Only
chance of obtaining a copy would be by advertising.
.. . . V.A.L.McD.: Send us dimensions of funnel and
we’ll send you a cutting pattern.... (Many others
mailed.)


NO ESCAPE
By Velin Ercole
Chapter XI.
(1)
IN July, 1914, Banton watched the war
clouds gatbqr, and saw no shadow from
them lie athwart its patient ploughing, its
browsing flocks, its gentle trade and com-
merce.
Even as it crowded round to see the slip
of paper which William Harbody pasted in
the window of the “Champion” office, de-
claring that England was at war, there was
little sense of drama, of upheaval. It was
difficult to believe that the even tenor of
life had been broken. Sitting in gutters,
leaning against posts, lounging in the
barber’s saloon, smoking, spitting, the war
was discussed, and every man discussing it
felt in his heart that the subject was as
remote from himself, as fantastic, as a
combat in Mars.
But quietly the war reached out and
twined its bloody hands round Banton.
Quietly its young men were withdrawn from
it. and each had his farewell “evening,”
his presentation camera, field-glasses or
wristlet-watch and fierce exclusive pain of
parting with those who loved him. For him
as for the rest of Banton it was hard to
realise that somewhere was slaughter, death;
a sky reeking with smoke; the noise of
cannon; bayonets cleaving shrinking flesh.
The crops grew, and the sun turned them
to rattling gold. The sheep were shorn, the
grain was harvested. Collectively Banton
was at peace, despite its farewell dinners,
its stray khaki-clad figures, its Red Cross
rooms where women knitted socks, sewed
flannel pyjamas, wrapped parcels for
soldiers, rolled bandages and talked. The
sun shone, the birds sang in wind-caressed
trees, Main-street drowsed in the sweet
air. But Alan Macpherson was killed at
Gallipoli. By the time that Elsie’s baby
was born its father was blinded. Old
Schultz, who loved Australia, discovered
in a time of crisis that he loved the old
Fatherland more, and was seldom seen in
the township. But his three sons fought
in the A.I.F.
Leo had been among the sober little group
which had stood round the “Champion”
office watching William Harbody paste his
significant slip of paper in the glass window,
but he had taken no part in the comment
and questioning of those about him. Nor
had he gone home to Olwen who was wait-
ing to hear the news. “I’ll go down the
street and see if anything has come through
yet,” he had said to her. He walked past
his house without noticing it, and along the
Gundibbie-road, over the railway crossing,
past the cemetery, until he had left the
environs of the town behind. When he was
completely alone, without even a visible
house to tell of human presence, he allowed
himself to feel the violence of joy denied
by the vague horror of his fellow-men at the
-scarcely-apprehended portentous news. In
that hour he thought, with supreme egotism,
of one thing and only one thing. This
meant escape! The gate had opened and
he had no decision to make. The whole
force of the public mind would conspire to
push him through the gate.
He had reached the stage where he was
neither glad nor sorry to be in Banton. He
lived a life of not unpleasant, unrelieved
monotony. His passion for Olwen had sub-
sided, and he loved her now with a quiet
and steady affection. Their lives had
become interwoven like two plants bedded
in the same soil whose branches lace and
intertwine, until, viewing the top, one plant
cannot be told from the other. But tendrils
of the roots explore strangely and in dark
recesses, each hidden from each. The
coming of her child had weaned Olwen
from her fierce concentration in her husband.
Only a crisis would have shown them
whether their love was fiercely alive or dead,
and supplanted by marital affection and
respect.
The crisis came, and Leo, walking alone,
threw his arms to the sky and cried, “This
is escape! Now I will be free of Banton.”
In her room Olwen knelt beside the bed
and prayed, trying to keep her head above
the waves of icy fear which threatened to
submerge her, and told herself there was
no need for this. He was a married man,
with a family, and no one would expect him
to leave her.
Until that moment Leo had not realised
how intolerable his life had become. The
instant : of reading William Harbody’s slip
of paper had struck a gulf between his old
life and the new which was misted with
strange and terrible and exciting forms.
The monotony of those previous years
stretched barren, futile into the past, and
he wondered how he had endured them
Now he would get away! War was an
adventure, a release.
Later he saw things in their true propor-
tions, and shuddered with all the sensitive-
ness of the thinking mind before the insen-
sate blasts breathed on humanity by the
War Lords: He never felt again that sense
of joy in his release, but a vague apprecia-
tion of it was with him always. It kept
him whispering company as he sat at his
farewell dinner and listened to the fervid
speeches accompanying the presentation of
his field-glasses and his inscribed wristlet-
watch. He was piteous for poor Darnley,
who looked at him with honest envy and
said something about “keeping the home
fires burning.” “Some of us must stay,” he
had answered, and thought: “But thank
God I am the one to go.”
Captain Gherardi, of the Army Medical
Corps.
“I know you won’t be in danger, Leo. I
know it and I’m brave most of the time,
and I let everybody think I want you to
go—and I do. But when we’re alone,
like this, and we have such a short time
to be alone in, I can let you see the truth,
Leo, and how afraid I am!”
“Nonsense! My skin will be safe enough
—I feel ashamed when I think how safe I
will be! Those others n0w....0n1y I know
lam more use like this. I am glad I do
not go to kill. That would have been
impossible. I would have stayed at home,
and got tarred and feathered like poor
Schrekenberg. Come, what have you to
cry about? This war will not last long. It
will be a holiday for me. I go to see
Europe again.”
“Come back safe, Leo, come back safe!”
Because of her tears she could not see his
eyes, which said: “I will never come back.
I will never come back to Banton. You
can come to me—over there. But I will
never come back.”
As the troopship pointed its grey nose
through the dawn mists, sliding stealthily
away from the sleeping harbor city, he
leaned over the rail, and remembered, de-
spite his misery, which was part of and all
the misery of a thousand men departing to
unknown terrors, and women left behind in
the grey, chill quiet, “I will never see again
this place. I am free.”
(2)
He landed at Suvla Bay on an October
evening in 1915. On that evening, in the
field dressing station, when he grappled with
the horror which men dealt men among those
desolate shore hills of Gallipoli, his sense
of escape was blotted out, to be replaced
by an awful sense of war.
After a few days he joined the 3rd Aus-
tralian General Hospital at Lemnos, and
here, while his body was wrung by work,
his mind was wrung by horror. Banton be-
came misted in his memory, and he saw it
vaguely as a place of sweet and tender
enchantment.
In the second week in November there
was a gale in the Gulf of Saros, and the
soldiers were frozen in the trenches. Weeks
of trench life had sapped their vitality.
They were easy prey to the terrible frost,
and during that time 20,000 men, debilitated,
frost-bitten, were drained into the tent hos-
pitals on Lemnos. Few escaped without
amputations. Many died, too weak to with-
stand operation. Leo worked and endured.
Horror was replaced by a terrible daze. He
thought of the present as his only future,
and that this was the end of life and the
beginning and all that life had ever been.
Banton was a kindly dream, vivid only
when he wrote to Olwen and Dino, who
were new-loved with a great and shining love.
One cold, still night he had come to his
tent for a brief, snatched rest, but lingered
an instant, before he raised the flap, to view
the white encampment. It was after mid-
night. There was no sound. But in imagi-
nation he heard ascending from that spread-
ing canvas oasis the groans of a suffering
multitude, heard the bewildered cries of
men who died wondering what all this
horror was about, and why they should die;
and the noise he heard in imagination was
not a human noise, but brutal, the cries of
stricken, unreasoning animals.
Tears were streaming from his red-
rimmed, tired eyes when he began a letter
to Dino. He clutched pen and paper as
salvation from madness; gradually the
awful sense of absorption by war left him,
and he was able to recreate human person-
ality again, and to feel that somewhere
outside this flaming circle there was a world
of evolving human beings. Trivialities
came to his pen. He wrote:
“My dear Son, —I wrote to mother yester-
day, but I suppose by the time the letter
reaches Australia your school holidays will
■>e over and you will not read her letter,
“I am here in the 3rd Australian General
Hospital at Lemnos. It is on an island.
If you take a map, you will see, just close
to the Dardanelles. There are four or five
hospitals here, all of them, of course, very
rough. lam living in a tent and the food
— oh! You used to complain of that which
they gave you at school, but you are indeed
a lucky boy, if you only knew. Yesterday
we had for breakfast beans and arrowroot
biscuits—four each! How would you like
that? The Red Cross supplies us with every-
thing, rough, but acceptable.
“Now, in December, it is bitterly cold.
Last week the cold was intense, with snow
blizzards, to which I have not been used
since I lived in Australia. I med to long
there sometimes to see the snow, but now
when it is here I think of December in
Banton, and the hot sun which ripens the
wheat, and I long for it very much.
“I have been in the fighting and seen an
attack and counter-attack. But, of course,
I was not fighting, as we are not allowed
weapons, you know.
“This war is terrible, my son, and my only
longing is to go back to you all and be
with you always. I haven’t had any letters
from Australia. Write to me every week,
Dinot, and tell me what you are doing.
“And work hard, because, my son, when
this war is over your generation will have to
carry on the work of the world, and now is
the time for you to fit yourself for it.
Because of this war you must give thought
to the future sooner than otherwise you
would have done. Think seriously and take
seriously the preparation of yourself for
your future tasks. The fine young men
of the present generation have given yon
not only their careers, but many of them
their lives, to this war, and your generation
which is coming on must suffer, too, and
you must give up a little of your playtime
and your carelessness, so that you will be
more fit to carry on the work of rehabili-
tation which must follow. You boys have
also a responsibility in the war, and that is
to strengthen yourselves to stand firm
against the chaos and temporary obscuring
of standards which follow every great war
in men’s history.
“1 am at 'present in no danger. But we
cannot tell how long the war will last, nor
what might in course oj time befall me.
Then you must stand beside your mother
and baby and do what I might have done.
This is war. So you understand why I speak
to you these perhaps worrying things. Work
hard for your examinations. Perhaps you
might win later a University Scholarship,
which would mean a lot for all of us,
because, of course, I cannot be at the war
and make money all along as if I had a busi-
ness or a farm..
“Well, my dear Dino, I have given you
a long lecture, when you would rather hear
what I am doing. But, believe me, the
things I am doing seem very futile and
dreadful —to patch up a man so that he
may have another chance of being killed.
I am grateful to be able to turn away from
this destruction and think of you and your
good fortune in being occupied instead with
construction.
“I hope I get letters from you by Christ-
mas. In a couple of weeks there is another
mail, and if I do not get a letter it will
be a very sad Christmas for me. We have
no spirits here, but we have a few bottles
of wine which we are keeping for Christmas,
also a turkey which will come from England.
All my love to you, dear boy.—Your
Father.
“P.S.—The turkey may not come!”
When he wrote to Olwen he found, too,
that the greater part of his letters was con-
cerned with the future of his children, and
that he could not tell of the horrible carnage
in which he had his days. He never got
used to the terrific destruction, never failed
to deplore the waste, the futility of the
struggle. He wrote of trivialities, of a time
when men would be sane; he conjured, in
writing, memories of Banton, Banton as
seen from that distance, eminently desirable,
tilling its soil, planting, reaping; sane in a
world gone mad.
(3)
Olwen wrote:
“I have been careful to keep down
expenses. But I often think it would have
been better if you had put in a locum at a
regular salary instead of just handing over
the practice to Dr. Darnley. A locum would
have .made more than his salary and we
would have had some income. As it is—
but I know when you went away you
thought our bank account was solid enough
and the war would be over in a few months.
We all did. And it drags on. Will it ever
end?
“Another doctor has come to the town,
but I don’t think he will do much. The
people are very loyal and resent lus coming
while you are away. But looking after
the two practices is really too much for
Darnley, though he works day and night.
He said to me the other day that he felt
it was the least he could do, to try and keep
things going and to hand over your practice
undiminished when you get back.
“Of course he’s making a lot of money.
He hinted tentatively that he could ado x
me a certain portion of the fees from your
private patients, but 1 let him understand
without saying anything definite that such
a course was not desirable. Let me know
what you think. Dino’s school fees have
been raised. But, of course, there must be
no question of his leaving school until he
has done all his exams. He is doing splen-
didly. He sits for his Intermediate in a
few months. But I think I told you tnat
in my last letter.
“Everything seems to be going up in
price. You wouldn’t think we’d feel it out
here so soon. But we can’t explain. If
it weren’t for the boys that have gone you
wouldn’t know there was a war, here in
Banton.
“I often wish we had invested _ in some
land. I was talking to Mr. Robinson the
other day and he tells me land in this dis-
trict is going to be sky-high soon. The
prices for wheat and wool are rising steadily.
It’s strange that disaster over there means
prosperity over here. For some, of course.
“If you get transferred to the field hos-
pital, there will be danger, won’tthere? I
can’t pray either. A war like this destroys
one’s confidence in God. At least it does
mine. Though lots say they never realised
the comfort of prayer before. But I can i
feel like that. _
“Poor Mr. Mullin’s son, young Oswald,
was killed, we heard yesterday. That makes
the twenty-fifth death from Banton. It s
dreadjul.
“This has been a good year for the
farmers. The rain came just at the right
time. I was out driving yesterday and some
of the crops are fence high. It was so
peaceful and beautiful. Oh, when will you
be back and everything be as it was before.
“Now I must tell you about Baby, tnough
the snapshots I’m enclosing will tell you
how marvellous he is”
(4)
It was in Cairo, where he had been tians-
ferred after the evacuation of Gallipoli, t.iat
he made a startling discovery. In Cairo
he had begun to think of himself again
and of a future of activities, and he became
conscious of a change in himself. He me l
many Italians and made some friends amonfc
them. At first he had been glad and excited
to be among his own people, and with a
light heart had donned the garment ot
Italian habits and Italian ways, so long laid
aside. And he found that the garment did
n °He l admitted to himself, in a thoughtful
moment, that he was not completely a
Great Prize Novel,
“CATTLE CAMP,”
Starts May 20.
“Cattle Camp,” prize-winner in the latest “Bulletin” Novel Competition, i 9 a
Bush story with brisk, vigorous action.
The setting is mainly on and about Corella, a Queensland cattle station, and
the scene is handled as only one who knows the Great North could handle it.
There is a thrilling beginning.
Margaret Kennedy, going on invita-
tion from southern New South Wales
to Corella, is left alone on the bo'x-
seat of a coach when the horses bolt.
She is rescued by Ken Craig, a
woman-shy bushman, some of whose
unattractive reputation has been
given to her by the coachdriver.
The story moves on then to the
station, and an unexpected twist
comes when the principal character
goes to France and Scotland.
“Cattle Camp” is a sincere, con-
vincing novel which will bring the
Bush home even to many who think
they know it. The writer, J. J.
Hardie, worked on just the sort of
station he describes, and, being a
native of Scotland and a returned
soldier, he knows the other scenes
of his story just as well. He handles
them all as they have rarely been
handled before in Australian fiction.
And he tells a gripping story into
the bargain.
“Cattle Camp,” which “The Bulletin” recommends for its vigor, its fine pictures
of cattle and horse camps and of farthest-out station life, as well as for its
intriguing plot, will open in this paper on May 20.


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Mamed Love by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4; Contra-
ction, by Marie C. Stopes, 22/4; Sex at Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The Science
ot a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10 ; Enduring Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Radiant Motherhood,
by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; Practical Birth Control, by
Hormbrook, 5/- ; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; Parenthood—A Manual
ot Birth Control, 3/2 ; The Sex Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3 ; Plain Facts on Sex
Hygiene by Howard, 7/-; Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, 3/3; Cocktails and How to Mix Them,
rm rI, ? nd Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4;
rr e x ri^ers Handbook, 5/10; Foulsham’s Best 100 Recitations for Boys and Girls, 3/4:
‘fJ 1 G , anies , for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A.,
3/1 , Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/1; Popular Card Games and How
to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5 ; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/5 ; Foulsham’s Best
Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; Table Rapping, 2/0;
IracDcal Palmistry (Illust.), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Hand Reading
Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/-; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Ward
Locks Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; How Shall I Word It? 2/8; The New
lord by E. T. Brown, 4/3; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8;
Hands and How to Read Them, 2/9; How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4/-; The Correct Guide
to Letter Writing, 5/5; Practical Carpentry for Amateuis, 1/9; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing
lor Amateurs, 1/9; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/9; Upholstery for Amateuis, 1/9 ;
IracDcal Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise
English Dictionary, 3/2; Pruning, 3/10 ; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L.
Savage, 1/6 ; Consult Me, 4/7; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 8/2 ; What to Draw and How to
Draw It, 4/10 ; Poultry Farming in N.S.W., by James Hadlington, 4/5; Owner Drivers’ Hand-
book, by Edward T. Brown, 5/5; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Polishes and Stains
for Woods, 2/6; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-; How to Drive a Car, 4/1;
DYKES’ AUTOMOBILE AND GASOLINE
ENGINE ENCYCLOPEDIA (15th Edition)
together with the New Ford Supplement.
Still the Undisputed Automobile Authority.
Simple—Thorough—Practical
PRICE 37/10, posted.
Manners and Rules of Good Society, 5/8; Double-bed Dialogues (very special), 1/2; Modern
Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 21/-; Napoleon’s Book
of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/1;
Gypsy Queen Dream Book, 4/1 ; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Bell’s Acrostic
Dictionary for crossword puzzles, 5/5; Nuttall’s Standard Dictionary, 12/6; Dictionary of Quota-
tions (Wood), 15/- ; Games of Patience —series 1 to 5, 2/6; Profit and Discount Tables (Ody
Rooks), 9/8 ; Fruitgrowing Under Irrigation—Australian practice—Arndt), 11/-; Universal Trade
Reckoner, 4/3; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Sex and Disease
(Storer)— every young man should have this book, 7/9; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by
lon Idriess, 5/6; Housepainting, Decorating and Paperhanging, the best book on color mixing
and painting methods published, 13/9; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; All About
Photography, 4/1 ; Enquire Within Upon Everything, 4/4 ; The Wrinkle Book, How to Keep
Looking Young, by Elinor Glyn, 2/6 ; Australian Squab Culture, 1/6; Marks’ Timber Ready
Reckoner, 2/2; Long’s Book of the Pig—-Special Price—7/6; Storage Batteries Simplified, Page
—Special Price —6/-; Motor Cycling, by Wyatt—Special Price—2/-; Automobile and Radio
Batteries, by Cross, 5/3 ; Evening News Book of Gardening, 2/8; Menus Made Easy, by Nancy
Lake, 5/4 ; Pruning, by Dept, of Agriculture, 3/3 ; Proverbs and Maxims, 1/8; A to Z of
Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey. 2/2; Wisden’s Cricketers’ Almanac for 1931, 9/2; Fortune
Telling by Tea-leaves, 1/9; Diesel Engine, by Jones —Special Price —15/-; Crystal Gazing and
Clairvoyance, 5/3 ; Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/8; 1001 Riddles, New and Old, 2/2;
Impromptu Conjuring, 3/3; The Art of Boxing, by Jimmy Wilde, 1/8; Everybody’s Pocket
Encyclopaedia, 1/8; Oxford School Atlas, usually 3/6, special price, 1/6.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
WRITE FOR LISTS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
IN D
LijtlHi far
dol«he nbadil^m^
M
BHif
4\,
'W,
m
m
H
Through
the darkness,
speeding along
comes a great car . . .
headlamps tunnelling the
night. Flooding the roadway
with daylight. That's the way a Dage-
nite does it . . . pouring power into those
headlamps . . . pouring an endless river of light.
There’s no storage battery like Dagenite for making
high speed safe in darkness.
Factory Representative : JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne
LMgenite
BATTERIES
ease, that he did not quite like the Italian
habits and ways now. These men with
whom he fraternised seemed distant from
him, like friends one meets after many
years and finds changed, almost strangers.
It was almost with fear that he wondered if
Italy, the beloved Italy, would be for him
full, of strangers, and that perhaps the
Italian mind was his no longer.
He hated Cairo because of this growing
fear, and was almost grateful when he was
sent to France and war numbness again
crippled him and ended his spiritual conflict.
He was wounded at the Ypres salient.
Through dreary months in the Boulogne
hospital he wished to die, but the will to
live triumphed over his mental surrender,
and he was almost well when he was
dispatched to England.
Here he learned tHe second personal
lesson which the war had to teach him. His
life was fairly pleasant. Except for the
obstinate fistula on his loin caused by the
shrapnel wound, he was not physically un-
comfortable. He was able to receive visitors
and to visit those of the townspeople with
whom he became acquainted. Also he was
able to help his brother-doctors in their
work.
His second discovery was that he was
more familiar with these people than he
had been with his own in Cairo; yet they
were not entirely familiar with him. They
were hardly foreigners to him; but, despite
their friendliness, he was a foreigner to them.
Consideration of this fact brought him
moments of panic. “I am a man without
any country or any people,” he thought at
times, and was fearful.
In his bewilderment of soul he turned
his thoughts to Banton, and with dreary
finality he knew that Banton and its people,
Olwen, his children, were all his possessions.
If he lost these, he suspected he would
have lost all.
The way was open for him to return to
Italy. Because of his participation in the
war a pardon was his for the taking. But
even while he was making inquiries con-
cerning his national status, he knew, in the
crypts of his consciousness, that he would
never advantage himself of the new oppor-
tunity. He feared, with all the dreamer’s
fear, the completion of the disillusionment
begun in Cairo. War had exhausted his
strength. He had neither the physical nor
the moral courage to face the return to his
own country.
Sometimes he bitterly mocked himself.
The gate was open. What should he do?
But the questioning was formal. He knew
that he would return to Banton, knew it
listlessly. When he turned his thoughts to
Italy, shattered and groaning, he saw his
hopes of personal rehabilitation as consum-
mate vanity. The vast wreckage of nations
made the wreckage of his personal hopes
less than nothing. Banton, his wife and his
children, and a few years of quiet kindli-
ness
One night as he leaned over the rail of
the troopship which was bearing him home
he thought of the colossal egotism of his
adventurous joy in leaving Australia, three
years before. He laughed, there in the
darkness, at his own folly. But his laughter
was mirthless and he was sick at heart.
(5)
After he had been home a month he felt
as if he had never been away.
Standards had been overthrown, values
changed, Czars murdered, Emperors de-
throned. The map of Europe had been
broken and put together again as by a child
playing with colored pieces of a puzzle.
But Main-street drowsed in the sunshine.
Men stopped one another and said that it
looked like rain. The wheat was planted
and harvested, the men of the town got
back into harness, lolling in the shafts of
their business, and the women g&ve up knit-
ting socks and went back to their afternoon-
tea.
At first Leo had been astonished that he
should perceive no crack in the clay of
Banton and that no reverberation of the
revolutionary cannonading should be heard
through the town’s quiet, even-humming
machinery. After a month he thought it
would have been preposterous, astonishing,
to find Banton touched; and the woild
crisis, the shattering noise of eruption, had
all the unreality of things happening in
another age.
In time a memorial was erected to the
Banton boys who had fought and died, a
marble column on a granite block, set in
the square fronting the Council Chambers.
Four four-inch guns and a trench-mortar
camouflaged by the local sign-painter were
set equidistant round the column and the
whole was enclosed by a railing. Except
for this Banton would not have told that the
world had ever gone to war. But impetus
was given to the growth of the district by
the war boom in produce prices. There was
a memorable year when wheat was seven
and sixpence a bushel. Wool was anything
from twenty-five to forty pence a pound.
Land values rocketed steadily. A man
worth a hundred thousand pounds was
known to follow in the wake of the header
hand-picking the missed wheat-heads. A
few sold out, retired to the city and lived
out their lives finding their sole genuine
amusement in a gossip with visitors from
the “old town.”
The experiment of Closer Settlement, in-
augurated to assist the returned soldiers,
sliced up the big holdings. Ownerships
changed. New faces appeared on Main-
street, but the face of Main-street was
eld, and did not change. Tfye street
lengthened, it was tar paved, brick build-
ings took the place of wooden ones, two
storeys reared where there had been one.
But the pulse beat even, slow, as it had
always beaten. There were cars instead of
buggies, but the face of the shop-assistant
as he stacked tin the back of the car tinned
supplies, potatoes, a clanking bundle of
ploughshares, a tin of kerosene, was as
genial, and his remarks about the weather
to the owner of the car and the purchaser
of his goods were the same as they had been
for twenty years. The new generation did
not change the town in any essentials. It
gave it new mannerisms, which, brushed
aside, revealed fundamental stability. The
new generation acquiesced, numbers of it
to the fixed thought of the old; numbers
in whom was the rebellious spirit were borne
on the wings of that spirit to the cities.
There was less mute, enduring discontent.
Newcomers to Main-s_treet talked of the
things of Main-street and if they had ever
known another world they forgot it. As
Leo almost forgot. The years were misting
his youth, and sometimes he wondered if
the gallant adventurous figure who trod
those fantastic paths had been himself; and
again if this figure of the country doctor,
portly and a little bald, who brought babies
into the w r orld with skill and kindness, and
performed operations with not so much
skill in the new operating theatre, was
himself. Sometimes on a calm evening he
caught a glimmer of the truth and knew that
both were himself. Occasionally, though
age was creeping upon him, his youthful
vitality was re-created, and he experienced
a restless urge. It was in such a mood that
he went to Olwen one day, suddenly, and
remarked:
‘Do you know what hinders the growth
of the town? What would prevent me from
settling here if I had the decision to make
now between this and another country
town?”
Olwen was sunk in her family. Her
second child, a girl, had been born two
years after Leo’s return from the war. She
confined her activities to her family, and
in contentment had almost forgotten any
desire to include Banton in her endeavors.
“What’s the matter with it? I like it?”
“Water! That is the matter with it!
Until we can bring water to this town we
will never progress. It will never be a fine
town without water.”
She looked at him curiously, seeing in
his eyes a spark of old fires, which jit
them strangely.
“Yes. It would be nice to have the water.
You’ve been thrumming the tanks, haven’t
you? We’ll have to let the garden go, Leo.
We can’t carry on much longer, unless it
rains. I hear a number of the people are
carting from the dams. I do hope it rains
soon.”
“But that is just the point I’m making!”
he said intensely. “We are still primitive ,
—at the mercy of the clouds. Does that
not strike you? Still dependent like tlis
savage on the whim of nature! What town
of any size would you find anywhere else
in the world content to depend on catch-
ment in iron tanks for its water supply?
It is ridiculous!”
He had spoken with an unusual fervor.
“Ever since I’ve lived in Banton, that’s
all my life, I’ve heard people sa.y they
wished they had the water. This discovery
of yours is not new, Leo.”
“No—all the worse. They have realised
all these years, and have sat back apathetic
Fid done nothing about it. Now look!
guarantee if I cared to try I could have a
water supply in Banton within three years! ”
He was slightly surprised at his own remark.
He looked at her and his face was a shade
puzzled.
“Well, go on then; do it!” Olwen laughed.
“Tou ought to take a bit of interest m the
town outside your practice. Banton’s been
pretty good to you for fifteen years, Leo.” j
“Fifteen years. Christo!” It had gone I
like a dream. It couldn’t be fifteen years?
But it was, and for all the slowness of the
town’s movement his life in it had passed
in a breathless flash.
Suddenly he realised that he would soon
be old, and that he was a citizen of Banton
and would always be so. Well, what was he
going to do about it?
For the time he did nothing. But that
revelation which was elaborated through I
nights and days of thought had the nature
of a crisis; though a crisis of which he was
Tiot entirely conscious.
Dino had won a University scholarship,
and after two years at medical school was I
making a small stir. Leo was enormously ]
glad, though he hid his joy under an j
assumed nonchalance. He saw repeated in '
his son all his own fire and brilliance, with
Teresa’s tenacity added. He began to
dream grandly for Dino, at the same time
as he ceased to dream for himself. Ills j
second son John was quieter, a casual, !
rather humorous child, sturdy of purpose,
intelligent but not brilliant. A lovable
child, with something of his mother’s domin-
ance. He rode like a little centaur, he spent
his holidays with his mother’s people and
grew brown and clear-eyed. To his father
he would remark, as they drove through the
country: “That’s a good pa.ddock, Dad,”
and he would surprise Leo with shrewdness.
He talked of crops and sheep, and knew
more about the processes of farming than
Leo did.
Olwen adored him, cherished him. “No
doubt about what this young man’s
to be when he grows up!”
“A lean and lanky farmer,” Leo would
tease.
And I wouldn t want him to be anything
else!” 6
(To be concluded next week.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sandown Park (Vic.) racecourse reached
the end of its days last Saturday. A peti-
tion to the State Government asking that its
life be saved is being numerously signed; but,
although Premier Hogan is known to be per-
sonally sympathetic, matters in regard to
the curtailment of racing have gone too far
to permit of an amendment of the Act There
is not a better-laid-out course in Victoria
than Sandown Park, which has direct rail-
way communication with the city, like War-
wick Farm. Sandown was sentenced to ex-
tinction because it lacked training facilities,
which, of course, could easily have been pro-
vided.
The Sandown meeting was in the nature
of a benefit for McShortodds, who won hand-
somely over four out of the seven events.
Seaveille was an absolute skinne’- to many
pencillers in the Trial Handicap. This three-
year-old son of Sea Prince is trained by
Charlie Fitzroy, who was with the late
“Ike” Earnshaw in Sydney for three years
and an Adelaide identity for 10 years; he
now leases the Flemington stables in which
Harry McCaiman prepared Manfred Punters
at Sandown declared very strongly for Ful-
ham, but that companion of Reputed King
and Blematic did not appreciate the soft
going and finished out of n nlace. It took
them 1.50 to cover a mile, which was con-
clusive evidence of the state of the track.
Another three-year-old outsider rolled
home in the Sandown Plate. Last-moment
quotes revealed Lorrain, the French stal-
lion, in slightly better demand than old High-
land and Myarin. Generally regarded as a
mudlark, Myarin failed to show up this
time. Nor did Lorrain or Highland make
his presence felt at any stage; in fact, the
pair came in at the tail of the procession.
Jack Holt was disappointed in Highland. It
may have been asking too much of the
veteran to score over six furlongs with 9.7
in the mud; a mile is his best distance.
Patrician, the winner, belongs to Digger
Saunders, who has done a lot of racing in
Sydney. Odds of 10 to 1 were freely offered.
Bert; " Does -the still.
WORRY YOU, Gert ?“
<3ert: “It doesn't bother me how?
Bert ; M G\ett'n<=i more compidekce
V4rtH TOUR DRW IMG, , \ SUPPOSE ?'*
GiERT’ No, |VE SOLO THE- CA^\
The other place-getters, Star glint and Jopim,
were practically unbacked.
High merit attached to the Brush Steeple-
chase victory of Affirm. If this son of Nas-
sau remains' sound he will have to be reck-
oned with in the G.N. Steeple. In 1927
Affirm was runner-up to Textile in the Caul-
field Cup. Last winter he distinguished him-
self over hurdles, but contracted trouble in
the suspensory ligament of his off foreleg
and had to be put aside. Affirm was having
his initial outing over brush fences. Though
weighted at 12.3, he shortened in price from
9 to 2 to 3 to 1 and started nearly as good
a favorite as Conine, who never was in the
hunt. After making the early running,
Affirm surrendered control to Gudroon; he
came again in the straight and won very
gamely by a neck. The original favorite,
Patriotic, was a poor third. T. J. Hayes,
who owns and trains Affirm, is giving Catkin
a G N. Hurdle preparation. So far Catkin
has not figured over the battens nor has
Affirm made acquaintance with hard fences;
yet this is a rather attractive Grand National
double.
Harry Gymer, who did so well with
Spearer, landed the Sandown Welter with
Finsburv, who ran disappointingly in the
colors of Ben Chaffey (his breeder) and
the late J. E. Brewer. Success on the
Melbourne “pony”, courses appears to have
put new courage into the St. Alwyne geld-
ing • he came home full of running to score
by a length from Romany Rye, with Broken
Doll third. Eric Connolly again entrusted
Broken Doll with confidence. She improved
on recent efforts, and is in line for an early
success. Neanger (6 to 4) and Valrnist (4
to 1) appropriated their respective divisions
of the Sandown Purse. Valmist is m the
stable of C. T. Godby. He won from post
to finish, and ought to be favorably heard ot
in better company. Home Made, brought
across from Sydney by Leu McCann several
months ago, brilliantly accounted for Jump-
ers’ Flat rivals.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Nonga Handicap: Glaive; next, Reputed
King. , ,
Morang Handicap: Highland; next,
Myarin.
* * * •
Given a horse in form, and well ‘'placed,”
almost everything depends on jockeyship. In
the Flying Handicap at Moorefield on May
2, the riders of Prince Verderer and Carnella
adopted cut-throat tactics, and their mounts
were beaten by a mare —Black Dina —whom
either might have overcome, more shrewdly
handled. Price Verderer had a better field
to meet in the Auburn Handicap at Rose-
hill on Saturday, and tens could be got in
any part of the ring, but he beat them in
much better time —1.13 i as against 1.16 at
Moorefield, the going being about the sanae.
On this occasion he was kept behind the
leaders, Anchor, Cleave and Tom Pinch (all
three at fours), and Darby Munro brought
him along with a nice run at the right
moment; Chemosh, who was also backed,
came with a rattle at the finish and dead-
lieated with Anchor for second place.
Chemosh should win presently, and so should
Carnella, who was not production Saturday.
Walking round before the Rosehill Handi-
cap, Gemlight looked in such fine fettle, that
this Page was sorry it had not named him as
absolute winner, instead of as an alternative
choice, especially as two or three fancied
horses were apparently a bit above them-
selves. In the race the ball of condition was
anxious to go to the front, and Bartle let
him, with about half a mile to go. It was
a one-horse affair after that, and though
Strength (10 to 1) made a dash at the leader
in the straight he shifted under pres-
sure, as tired horses do, leaving Gemlight to
win by three lengths; Aorangi (7 to 1) was
third and Don Moon next. Gemlight does
his best at Rosehill —he doesn’t seem to
care for other tracks. Tens was the price.
Dike so many other Greensteads, Green-
sea is a smart welter horse, and he did well
to carry lOst. 81b. to victory in the first
division of the Highweight Handicap, for
which he was favorite at 5 to 2. King Crow
(backed from sevens to 9 to 21 was a good
second, and might have been first if he had
had a race or two in the last month. Green-
sea was ridden by Jones, a former pony
jockey, and much better ridden than was
Promptitude (9 to 2) in the second division.
Promptitude apparently had the field at his
mercy when he began to hang in, and his
jockey made matters worse by pulling out
the whip; as a result Sarwin (7 to 1),
Bartle’s mount, just beat him.
* * * * *
For Randwick on Saturday:—»
Flying Handicap: Gay Ballerina; next,
Gi’ggdsgs.*
Tatt.’s Stakes: Sunlover; next, Intrepid,
James Barnes Stakes: Salvador; next,
Inducement.
Welter: Attar; next, Raasay.
* He * *
The doubles tote is arriving on both feet in
Australia. Westralia has already had some
uplifting experiences, and the S.A.J.C. meet-
ing at Morphettville on Saturday furnished a
shining example. Suzumi, victorious in the
Fisher Handicap, had been doubled with St.
Bernadette, winner of the Goodwood Handi-
cap from Belle of Richmond and Second
Dale (dead haters). Backers of the double
collected £4ll 3s. 3d. for 55.; Bernadette had
paid £54 for £l. Suzumi was pretty well
backed too, for her straightout divvy in her
race was only £3 11s. for £l.
* * * *
Melbourne racegoers expected to see the
totalisator in operation at Epsom, but part
of the mechanism had not arrived from over-
seas. Mentone, only a mile or so distant,
will pioneer machine betting on June 10, and
installation will be general throughout the
metropolitan area before the spring. Cluos
have been financially embarrassed in meeting
the expense. The V.R.G. had to borrow from
its trust funds, while the Y.A.T.O. was com-
pelled to negotiate a private loan.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: Buying yearlings is a
gamble which throws all other varieties of
taking a risk, not excluding matrimony, into
the hazard. Take Sir Chrystopher. He was
bought for 80 guineas by G. J. Perry, of
N S.W., who thought he might be a useful
sort for country racing. The buyer changed
his mind and sold the grey at auction for
60 guineas to H. R. Munro. As a two-year-
old the soil of Chrysolaus won three of the
four races he started in. Next season he
won five times in twelve flutters, i collecting,
with one third placing, over £l9OO. At lour
years he brought his owner £llll, and tins
season, to time of writing, ke adaed
£3249 to his account, making £6117 tor ms
racing career to date, and probably plenty
more to come, for h'e shows signs of lurnisli-
ing on. Windbag, bought for 150 guineas
and later resold for 140, is another case in
point. His winnings came to over £35,000.
* * * *
“Deejay”: Owner-trainer J. E. Clark, of
Epping Forest, Minto (N.S.W.), is coming
well into the limelight with his gelding New
King. Clark, who stands well over six feet
in his socks, trains his steed at Menangle
Park, about 20 minutes’ run by car from
his home. He is a well known cattle-bieeder.
New King’s easy defeat of Greenbird at
Rosehill and that horse’s subsequent victory
in City Tatt.’s Cup suggest that Clark
has got hold of a really good nag.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Nineteen-year-old Fred Hannaberry (10.74)
looked the most promising youngster Syd-
ney has seen for years when he gained his
19th consecutive victory by beating Han-
cock (10.7|) at Leichhardt. A master of
all-round tactics, Hannaberry blocked some
heavy left hooks before a left of his own
upset Hancock as the third terminated.
Another left dropped Hancock for seven m
the fifth, and Wally was afterwards hard
to catch. Hannaberry won all the way. As
the scrap was limited to 15 two-minute
rounds, Hancock’s Australian welter title
was not at stake.
* * * *
Leo Bandias (12.114) and Don McLeod
(12.54) staged a 15-round affair at Mel-
bourne Stadium on Saturday. Neither man
showed much initiative and both lacked suffi-
cient pace to catch a cable-tram. In the
sixth round Bandias finally got within range
of McLeod and landed several rights to the
jaw, and the 10th saw Mac go down for the
full count.
* * # *
“Mitt Shover”: Schmelling, who was
awarded the “world’s championship” because
the temperamental Sharkey fouled him in
a New York fight some time ago, has at last
to face the music. The self-constituted
authorities who run American boxing have
told him that he must defend his dubious
title on July 3, the challenger being “Young'’
Stribling. ‘ Stribling is probably the most
formidable of the American heavies, and the
ease with which he dealt with the elephantine
Camera some time ago will not be forgotten
by genuine judges of a genuine fighter.
* * * *
Jim Deakin (11-14) and Jack Hamon
(10.131) made their return wrestle at Syd-
ney Stadium more interesting than was the
first meeting a week earlier. Hamon was
given a disputed points decision then, but
Deakin did not leave it to the referee this
time; he won by putting Hamon out of
action in the sixth round.
Footbrawl
Melbourne’s star match on Saturday was
at Essendon, where the Melbourne club and
the locals fought a hard but courteous game
to an exciting finish, the ’Dons winning by 77
to Melbourne’s 73. Hawthorn made a good
show against Collingwood, but found itself
beaten towards the end by tactics and experi-
ence—’Wood, 84 points; Hawthorn, 65. Carl-
ton crossed its boundary into Fitzroy and
polished off the maroons with comparative
ease, scoring 133 to 93. St. Ivilda went to
Geelong and found the Seasiders just as un-
beatable a? they are theniselves on their own
ground. Geelong had it all its own way
and piled up 126 to St. K.’s 54, the redoubt-
able Moloney, formerly of W.A., snavelling
12 goals. An even higher tally—l 4 no less—
was scored by D. Strang, a country acquisi-
tion with Richmond. The Tigers, on their
own ground and very fit, and finding North
Melbourne just the reverse, set about putting
up a record—3o goals 19 behinds to North s
4 goals 7 behinds. South Melbourne fur-
nished the surprise of the day, being wal-
loped at home by Footscray—lll-91.
* * * *
“Riverina”: A notable Australian-rules
footballer of other days who recently took
part in the country bowls championships in
Sydney is Harry Lampe, of Wagga (N.S.W.),
who played the national game without a
season’s break until he reached the age or
52 —35 successive years of play, nearly halt
the time for South Melbourne. Now over
60 he is good enough to gain selection for
the Riverina in the pairs championship.
* * * *
Saturday’s games in the Sydney Rugby
League were chiefly notable for the defeat
of South Sydney by Western Suburbs. The
try-getters cut even with 3 each, Wearing
scoring a brace for South in his old style,
wliile he also kicked 2 of his side s 3 goals
McMillan added 4 boot extras for West, and
they won by 2 points. Brogan was m great
buckle for South, but even he cannot play
the whole opposition pack. North Sydney
won from University by 11-3, but had to
thank Carroll’s 4 goals for most of the
points, the Uni. forwards bothering the oppo-
sition back division at times. Newtown
played its best game of the season against
Balmain, the backs showing good combina-
tion, led by F. Gilbert at five-eighth. Final
scores were 18-5, the home men notching 3
tries and 3 goals to a try and a goal by Bal-
main. Eastern Suburbs had things much as
it wanted them against St. George at
Earl Park, winning 28-7, and crossing the
line half a dozen times to once by Kadwell
for St. George. Brown kicked 4 of East, s
5 goals. The Saints are showing very poorly
this year, no doubt as the result of divided
■ counsels.
% # : i : *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League, real-
ising that the game with its interminable
scrummaging is not attracting the public
as of yore, has been thinking over reducing
the number of players from 13 to 12 a side.
It is argued that this will leave the field
more open than at present, with the result
that spectacular movements will be encour-
aged. A change which would be really
well worth while would be a return to the
old Rugby Union liner-out, which would
abolish at least 50 per cent, of the scrums.
$ $ * *
Rugby Union matches in Sydney on Satur-
day gained interest from the fact that players
were all out for selection for the Queens-
land tour. Randwick showed much better
form in the game against Eastern Suburbs
at the Cricket Ground than in earlier
matches, beating the tricolors 20-8 and scor-
ing 4 tries (four converted by Marks) to
2 tries and a goal by Ross. Randwick backs,
headed by Towers, took and kept the upper
hand, while Easts’ defence was nothing to
write home about. Western Suburbs and St.
George had a field day at Parramatta, four
men getting marching orders and four more
being carried off. West tacked up 8 tries,
thanks to the Saintly defence being negli-
gible. St. George crossed the line only
once. A hard but exciting game at Manly
ended in a 14-all draw. Drummoyne
led 14-6 at half-time; Manly attacked
persistently, and, led by the. flying Louden,
equalised just before the whistle. Tolliurst
and Brian Palmer on the opposing wings
showed rare form once more. Uni., which
is improving with each match, outpaced
Northern Suburbs at Uni. Oval, 16 to 12.
* * * *
“Poneke” : That chronicle of the late Joe
Firth, head of Wellington (M.L.) College
(B. 29/4/’3l), omits reference to the big
chap’s personal keenness for Rugby Union
football. A 'fine player himself in his youn-
ger days, he developed into one of the best
referees the Shivery Isles has been blessed
with, and no match of inter-island or inter-
national importance was played at Welling-
ton in his day without Firth as whistle-
holder. He stood no nonsense from dis-
gruntled players either, and a steely eye,
backed by his great height and bulk, made
the boldest complainant think twice before
chipping him.
* * * *
“Hooker”: As expected, the Maoriland
Rugby Union has decided to go back to the
rules of Rugby as recognised throughout
the world, save in the Shivery Isles and
Australia, where certain alleged “improve-
ments” copied from the professional League
have been in vogue for some years. The
Australian unions must of course follow
suit or be cut out of inter-Dominion and
international matches in the future. The
impression that the alterations made the
game more attractive was largely due to
imagination. No finer football has been seen
in Australia than in the matches against
Britain last year under the original rules.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Sydney football will miss
the giant Jack Ford, whom business cares
will keep in the country, for this season at
least. His great weight and pace, combined
with an unusual quota of football brains,
earned him the reputation when in hug land
with the Waratahs of being one of the
greatest forwards the game has known, ne
is certainly one of the very finest we hai
seen south of the Line, and that stateme .
covering as it does men who have visite
us with teams from Britain, South Arrica
and Maoriland, may be taken by the bg
fellow as distinctly complimentary.
* * * .
“Outside Right”: There is interest in
watching the attitude of the various Aus
tralian Soccer bodies towards an alleged
team from Russia which has invited itse
to pay Australia a visit. The N.S.W. c
fields have heartily endorsed the project in
their comradely way, as have one or two
the industrial centres round Sydney where
Soccer flourishes. Queensland comrades are
also said to be willing, but and
South Australians are not having ay.
However, the fact that the visitors wiU pay
their own transport to Australia and La
the rest to luck possibly accbunts for the
willingness of some citize s
welcome the tourists. If their *XL an a
frost they can always go on the dole and
add a few new units to the ranks of the
Beasley-Garden following.
(Continued on next page.)
Sydney’s greatest and most popular fiee
show, the annual tussle on the Parramatta
between eights from the metropolitan Grea
Public Schools, this year diew a record
crowd. It was rewarded by one of the finest
races yet seen in the scries.ChurchofEng-
iand Grammar winning after a punishin*
Sh in which ‘•Shore” swooped on High
School, the leaders, a few yards from the
line and scored by a bare six feet, with St.
Joseph’s half a length away third. The time
for the mile and a half was mnn. 54 1-Osec.
A rluel between St. Joseph’s which made
the pace from the start, a " d S h °and
thing to take the edge off both revs a d
leave “Shore” with \ I
for the final spurt, feoffor which
polished crew, rowed a S r ’n RZnn
stroke R G Bsplin and coach L. G. Kobson
deserve every credit. Sydney High had some
consolatiom in
th'tights. St : scored in tile second
fours, with High second.


FOOT-ROT SECATEORS
AND LAMB CLAMS
ŵ
ẁ
W. JNO. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
ẃ
ẅ
Footbrawl
"Richmond”: A glance at the takings for
the opening of the Victorian League football
season should inspire confidence in this coun-
try’s primary industries. A big falling-off
was expected; contrariwise, the gates for the
six big matches topped 102,000, which, though
not as good as last year’s opening day, was
much better than the 1929 figure. Takings
were £2607, a sum that lias only been topped
twice since 1926. And the clubs are not doing
so badly either, most of them having carried
out an extensive season-ticket-sale cam-
paign. Essen don sold £4OO worth during its
mgtch against St. Ivilda on the opening day,
while Carlton is' said to have disposed of over
4000 briefs already.
* *' $ *
A noteworthy production is “The Austra-
lian Game of Football,” published in Mel-
bourne by Robertson and Mullens. Compiled
by Messrs. McH'ale, Chadwick and Taylor, all
notable players in the past, the book treats
exhaustively of the national code. In addi-
tion there are numerous articles on all
aspects of the game, including training, and
these are supplemented by many excellent
photographs showing champion players in
action, as well as by hints on first aid and
an up-to-date edition of the rules of the
game. .As a work of instruction and refer-
ence it is worth far more than the half-crown
asked for it.
* •-!: s|:
“Fitzcray”; The feud between the Mel-
bourne Grounds Management Association and
the Y ictorian Football League still smoulders,
rhe story of the strafe is a long one, but most
of the trouble has been caused by the
League’s insistence on hogging the grounds
until well into the cricket season, to the
detriment of the flannelled gentry.. Some
time ago the G.M. drew up a fixed schedule,
which tied the League down to a finish on a
certain date, and this was agreed to by the
Minister for Lands. Friction increased,
and came to a head over >a question of free
tickets. The whole of the League matches
on the opening day were on the point of
being cancelled when the Minister for Lands
intervened, and a great national calamity was
averted.
* * * :l!
The late J. ,T. (“Yorkie”) O’Shea was one
of the finest wing-threequarters Queensland
has produced, with a rare turn of pace and a
most elusive swerve. He learned his football
at Brisbane Grammar, after an entry at St.
Ignatius’ in N.S.W., and went early into the
Queensland sides of the ’nineties, when he
was a contemporary of H. P. Abbott and
others who. once cut a dash in Queensland
Rngby. H'e wore the maroon jersey from
1891 to 1896 inclusive, playing in all
matches against N.S.W. and the All Blacks.
A member of a prominent family of solici-
tors in Brisbane, he practised for years at
Croydon.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby Union’s “Annual,” just
issued for a modest tanner, is indispensable
to followers of the amateur code in Aus-
tralia, especially as, for the first time,
Queensland records are included. Other
features are portraits of the five, leading
players of the year; among them arc the
Queenslanders Lawton and Thompson, who
did so well against the British team. It is to
be hoped that the day is coming when the
records of the Victorian and Westralian
Unions will be joined to those of the two
eastern States.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Cliff Porter, the bald-headed
All Black skipper whom all who saw him
play will remember as something entirely
unusual in the wing-forward line, has left
his native land for Vancouver. Porter, who
has no need to toil for a living, has been
asked by the Canadian Rugby people to act
as honorary coach. Though the Western
Canucks play a lot of Rugby they have never
been able to make any serious impression on
touring Australian and M.L. teams going or
coming through their country on the trip to
Europe and back. The material should be
there all right, and if anyone can put the
finishing touches thereto it is the famous
M.L. tactician.
* *
“Brum” : “North End” could have spared
his Lancashire tears over the descent of the
once-victorious West Bromwich Albion team
to _the second division of the League (B.
6/5/’3l). After winning the Association Cup
the other day the old Warwickshire club
brought off a great double by heading the
Second Division list, thus ensuring its pro-
motion next season to the First League, with
Everton, a Liverpool ancient which has also
seen better days, going up also. Arsenal,
with its costly team, has nraetically forced
its way to the head of the First League, beat-
ing the once-invincible Bolton Wanderers
5-o—sheer murder in Soccer.
* * * *
“Doubtful" : The Rugby League players in
Queensland this season will be ama-
teurs as far as cash is concerned. No money
will be available for the inter-city contests,
and in the inter-State series train' fares and
board will be provided instead of the usual
tenner per man in addition. The Queensland
League’s appeal to the N.S.W. League for
one extra game in Sydney shows how hard
it is going to be to make ends meet.
* . * * *
“Combo”: Rugby League footballers up
Tweed Heads (N.S.W.) way have no time
for the original Australian. For some years
past many of the abo. population of the dis-
trict have been accustomed to play football
with the Tweed Heads club. Last season
they were forced to found a club of their own.
As some of them are first-class players an
attempt was made at the beginning' of this
season to re-admit the dusky athletes to the
white fold, which was badly in need of their
services. The question was put to the
ballot the other day. the Noes having it by
17 votes to 15, with the result that the
whites will have to struggle along as best
they can.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The Davis Cup crowd are
progressing with the eliminations (B.
6/5/’3l). The Yanks made short work of
Mexico in the North American zone, and
will stack up against Canada at Montreal
on May 21. One of the surprises, so far,
has been the cutting out of Germany, which
did so well last year. South Africa was re-
sponsible, and will have to tackle Ireland in
the next round. Though it has produced
such world-beaters as J. C. Parke and the
Doherty twins, the once-disthressful country
will probably have to take the knock again.
* * * *
“Let”: Like France, America seems to
have a promising crop of tennis-players
coming on. Uncle Sam has picked seven
players to practise for inclusion in the Davis
Cup four that will probably figure at Paris.
Some of the newcomers have been given
a preliminary gallop against weak sides like
Mexico in the North American zone, two of
them, Shields and Wood, getting away with
the doubles against Mexico easily. Also
to practise are Allison, Lott, Van Ryn and
Sutter. Doig is temporarily out of the game,
though, as winner of the national singles, he
will probably come in later. Shields, Wood
and Sutter are all under 21.
* * * *
“Base Line”: Tennis in Australia seems
to have dropped considerably in public
esteem. The State associations and the
Australian body alike report poor attendances,
especially at the Australian championships.
Hard times have something to do with the
slump, but the probability is that the public
is fed up with seeing the same old local cham-
pions being trotted out. What is badly needed
is a visit from an overseas team to provide
fresh attractions. The Americans are definitely
off visiting us, and the Japanese, who have
also been invited, are hanging fire. It is the
old story. Australian cricket would be a
negligible quantity if it had to depend on
the State games to maintain interest and
financial support. The periodical visits from
overseas are the lifeblood of the game, and if
tennis is to maintain public interest in Aus-
tralia it will have to follow the cricket lead.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton” : Queensland’s seventh annual
battle for the A.I.F. Cup was played at
Eagle Farm the other day, the winner being
D. A. Lupton, of the Goodna club, who,
with a 16 handicap, returned a net card
of 72. Alec Denholm went round in 73
off; the scratch mark. There was a big
entry, and the last men round, including the
winner, just about finished in time to do
their duty at the dinner which closes the
ceremony.
ij: sjt i|:
“Brassey”: The Concord Cup has been
won by W. R. Dobson—the first time for
19 years that a Concord man has collected
the trophy. Eric Apperley, last year’s
winner, finished fourth with 158, nine strokes
behind Dobson, who has repped for N.S.W.
in the inter-Dominion Kirk-Windeyer Cup
contests.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : Those intending to have
a shy at the N.S.W. amateur golf champion-
ship are notified that entries close with
the secretary of the N.S.W. Golf Council
at Wingello House, Sydney, on May 25.
June 13 is the opening day of the meeting,
and the foursomes will be the first contest
staged. S. A. Keane and G. Thompson are
the holders, while the singles stand to the
credit of Eric Apperley, who has won the
title five times. The first singles round—
match play nowadays—starts on June 20.
* * *
“Hotham”: Victorian professional golfers
had a field day on the Metropolitan club’s
course, when most of the leaders of the game
in the Cabbage Garden turned out for the
Silver King Purse. The winner was W.
Naismitli, of Heidelberg, who did his two
rounds in 152. Naismitli, though a golfer
of great promise, has not yet scored in the
very big stuff, though he won selection as
Victoria’s representative in the tourney to
decide the choice of an Australian to play
for the British open championship.
=!: t- :)s *
“Carnoustie” : The British amateur cham-
pionship which opens at Westward Ho on
May 18 is showing signs of the world-wide
depression, for there are only 171 entrants
as against 272 last year. A strong con-
tingent of Yanks will be there, and the fact
that Bobby Jones is giving the famous fix-
ture a miss this time will be offset by the
fact that Douglas Fairbanks will be a
starter. Nobody knows exactly what the
movie man’s form is, but probably he is a
better fillum-aetor than a gowfer.
* * * *
“Shirley”; Freak golf does not enjoy the
popularity in Australasia which it commands
in Yankeeland. A Maorilander is shortly
to take on a job of the sort in his native
land by way of shaking off malaria caught in
the Islands. He will play over a 950-mile
course, starting at Auckland on June 6 and
finishing up at Invercargill by Christmas.
He has bogied the course at 34.000, but it
would seem ’that he faces a difficult water
hazard in Cook Strait. The score allows
about 36 strokes to the mile, and 10 will be
the lost-ball penalty. The record in this
line is held by a misguided Yank who played
round America from the Camick border to
Seattle.
Car and Cycle
“Reverse”: Australian motorists will
remember W. E. Rootes, who toured Aus-
tralia some years ago investigating the roads,
and in other ways picking up ideas likely to
assist his firm in placing a car on the market
which would stand up to all conditions at
home and abroad. The result is seen in the
new model now being built by the Humber-
IJillman people. Named the Wizard, the
car was tried out for 18 months over the
worst roads in Europe and -North Africa.
Two models are available, the bore being-
-75 m.m. in each case; the respective engines
register 15.7 and 20.9 h.p., both 6 cylin-
ders. Designed by Captain Irving, the man
responsible for Segrave’s Golden Arrow, the
car is a deliberate attempt to cater for
world-wide conditions.
* * *
“Rats” : About the only industry in which
the pneumatic tyre does not seem to have
intruded itself by sheer force of merit is
politics. One is moved to this reflec-
tion by the perusal of an advertisement
showing that an English firm has placed
pneumatic-tyred wheelbarrows on the mar-
ket. From this it is only a step to the evolu-
tion of the barrow driven by an internal-
combustion engine. In that day the ancient
story of the ganger who told one of his
navvies to stop _ greasing his wheelbarrow
because he didn t know anything of engi-
neering will lack point.
“Bats”: America continues to stage freak
motor-record stunts. The latest by a man
from Montana was the driving of a car for
101 consecutive hours while handcuffed to
the wheel. Just exactly what the reason
for the handcuffing was is not stated, but the
idea has its points. There are lots of drivers
who would be all the better for handcuffing,
and in some instances leg-ironing as well.
* s|s *
“T.T.”: Stuart M. Williams and Dave
Brewster, the two N.S.W. motor-cyclists who
were selected to represent Australia in the
Tourist Trophy races on the Isle of Man
in June, arrived in England on May 7. Both
riders will compete in three events—Senior,
Junior and Lightweight-—but as the trade
does not appear to be much interested in
the T.T. this year they may find it hard
to secure satisfactory mounts. None of the
trophies has yet been won by an oversea
competitor.
Miscellaneous
“Shep”: When my bottle-merchant called
this week to take over recent casualties, he
sported in the top buttonhole of his waist-
coat ribbon streamers that dangled down over
countless beer stains. “Football colors?” I
asked him. “No, Tgh’s, fer the big boat-
race,” Avas his reply. Another depression
job, I concluded, and asked what year he
was there. “Never bin inside ther joint, and
none of mine’s likely ter ever get in either,”
he said. I was .still wondering why he’d
picked on the chocolate and blue when he
concluded: “Sons o’ workers, ain’t they?
It’s a man’s flamin’ duty ter barrick fer
’em.”
# * * :!e
“Blade”: The G.P.S. boatraces on Sydney
Harbor once more call attention to the fact
that Sydney school rowers rarely are heard
of in later life. There is plenty of room in
Sydney for a club recruited from the old boys
of the various schools on the lines of that
very successful organisation the Queensland
G.P.S. rowing club. The only move in this
direction Sydney sees is the. annual collect-
ing of an eight or four of old boys to assist
their own particular school in training spins,
but these crews are untrained and attain no
particular standard. An attempt was made
by one of these to figure in a maiden eights
race in Sydney recently, but the going was
far too strenuous for them.
“Splash”: That remarkable Maori Mrs.
Nehua capped her Sydney endurance-swim-
ming record by remaining afloat in Brisbane
for 72 hours 21 minutes. The swim was
done in a closed bath and under much pleas-
anter conditions than her open-air swim in
cold bleak weather in Sydney. The Ameri-
can ladies who have specialised in this sort
of thing for some years and were directly
responsible for the revival of the craze
recently have been badly licked, their Maori
rival having beaten the best of them by
hours.
*
“Aigburth” : The All Black cricketers got
their first blooding in England the other
day with an informal one-day match at
Wimbledon against a side led by Percy Chap-
man. The tourists declared on a bad wicket
with 7 down for 183, Dempster and Talbot
both passing the half-century. The Britons
lost the same number of wickets for 110 at
stumps, and as the side included cricketers
of the calibre of Calthorpe, the Gilligan
brothers and other county players in addi-
tion to “Chappy,” the showing may be con-
sidered quite a good start.
:J: $
“Shuttle”: Badminton has reached inter-
national status in Britain, and deserves more
regard than it gets in Australia. The
battledore and shuttlecock game over a net
has many sporting points. One great advan-
tage it possesses is that it can be played
indoors in bad weather provided a gOod-sized
room o-r hall is available. Sydney boasts
one or two outdoor courts, notably one at
Darling Point; but if the game is played at
all extensively in N. S. Wales nothing ever
gets into print about it. Port Moresby in
Papua has set an example in this respect,
the local journal lately containing a fervent
account of a thrilling tournament held there.


tlndeS
Royal
Vintage 1920.
To H.M
Kind
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
JchampagkC
'^rtesllcidsifc^
Reims
"MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
A MUSICAL INNOVATION FOR SYDNEY
EVERY SUNDAY AT 8.30 P.M.
PROMENADE ORCHESTRAL CONCERTS
AT
WENTWORTH
Starring Engagement:
LEON HALE AND HIS HUNGARIAN BAND
(20 Artists in one Brilliant Ensemble)
Hear the stirring Slavonic Dances, Gipsy Airs, Rhapsodies, etc., played in their
incomparable style by these artists. Hear the .Classics interpreted by this famous
combination.
Supper at 2/1 is the only charge for these delightful evenings. •
For reservations, ’phone 8W1361.
AFTERNOON TEA, 3/- .;
3.30 to 5.30.
Dance to the strains of Lionel
DINNER AND SUPPER DANCES,
from 7/6, EVERY SATURDAY.
Hart’s Syncopators, 8 to 1.
THE BEST WASHING RIBBON.
There is even a best in Ribbons, there-
fore make sure you get Cash s Washing
Ribbons for Shoulder Straps and all
Lingerie. Cash’s Washing Ribbons do
not break or fray, and need never be
removed from the garment, as they come
out of the wash like new. Obtainable in
many dainty shades. Ask your Draper.
Names]
TO MARK ACITJNEN/
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.
w
Actual Size, Style
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS:
' : Write for Name Style Circular to
JO T TACIT 'AUSTRALIAN
<x J. MOD, weaving co pty. ltd
85 CUBITT ST. RICHMOND MELB
fftres
12 d
7/6
6d
oz.
&6
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The eye veil attached to the small model
hat is likely to become more popular now
it is being made of horsehair tulle or very
fine crinoline gauze, especially if it is shaped
to stand well away from such facial entangle-
ments as noses, too long eyelashes or pugil-
. istic chins. While we are still in love with
our berets and brimless hats, London and
Paris are prancing about in the old exotic
hoods we have known these past three sum-
mers, pandan, sisal, the various buntals and
paper panamas. A newer straw, known as
dull racello owing mainly to its suede-like
finish, will be modelled into the wide-
brimmed, shallow-crowned hat of the
near future. These lids have velvet
or moire ribbons to tie them demurely
under the chin, and sometimes good old
black elastic grips them under the hair. Per-
haps this is a reason why hair is being worn
in a bun. Organdie and linen hats are
among the favorites for the Summer Oup,
but these must be embroidered in the type
of stitching known as broiderie Anglaise.
Feathers and flowers are given the cold
shoulder as embellishments, and paste orna-
ments are again to the fore, aft, port or star-
hoard. Pastel shades will predominate, with
sky blue, pale rose, water green and coral
among the most popular. Black, of course,
is a certainty, but navy in the straw-hat
world is still reported as matrons’ wear.
Gloves for evening are of the 12- to 16-
button length. Dresses for day wear are
four inches below the knee, waist lines are
back to normal, and tightly-fitting hips are
necessary for the snaky-like figure that is
supposed to lurk beneath every woman’s
velvet, tweeds or chiffon. Basques, flounces
or pleats are seen in every spring and sum-
mer advance model. Puffs and tuckings,
bows and epaulettes give the sleeves a hint
of the Elizabethan. The new evening frocks
are ankle-length and even around the hem,
but the waist-line varies from the normal
to the empire line. Cape styles (very often
an arrangement of shoulder draping),
boleros and scarf and sash effects in the same
material as the frocks are still in the pic-
ture, and broiderie Anglaise ornaments many
a frock of gorgette and crepe de Chine.
At the invitation of the committee of
the Housing Fund for Unemployed, sym-
pathisers met at the Con. on Friday night.
The Governor, Archbishop Kelly and W. A.
Holman were on the platform, and with them
Gladys Owen, the honorary secretary, and
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, chairwoman of the
women’s committee. Mr. H. B. Sevier was
the chair. Sir Philip Game stressed the neces-
sity for the society and kindred ones to “get
together and pull together” ; the Archbishop
blessed the work and suggested that they
could not do better than put those words on
their banner, and Mr. Holman contributed
a reminder that “Sydney’s balmy climate is
a myth when June, July and August nights
are on us.” The committee has already done
good work. The H.M.A.S. Tingira will soon
be sheltering single, unattached men; she
will be berthed at Harris-street wharf (Mr.
S. Walder has already given 100 mattresses).
Homeless business girls will find n shelter
at the Salvation Army hostels, and at the
club at 267 George-street. Bigger problems
are the sheltering of women with children
and married men with families, meanwhile
the public is asked to supply anything it
can in the way of clothes, shoes, etc. Large
parcels will be called for hy Anthony Hor-
derns.
Universal sympathy went out to “Joey’s”
in the death of Brother Joseph through a
fractured skull, resulting from a fall. He
was the college rowing master, and at first it
was thought that the crews would not parti-
cipate in the Saturday finals, but the heads
decided that only the emergency fours to be
rowed in the morning would be withdrawn.
On Saturday morning the crews attended
the Requiem Mass and the funeral, and later
it was a saddened eight which took its place
in the struggle for the Headship of the
River.
From the organ seat to the last row in the
gallery the Town Hall was packed to hear
Levitzki on Saturday night. Enthusiasm
ran high and the clapping was like a shower
of hailstones on the roof. When the con-
cert proper was over the artist smilingly
played again and again, while galleryites
crowded round the piano, and others stood
grouped at the foot of the stage. Though
it was a warm night, coats were much in
evidence —ermine, mink, seal, velvet. One
of the most gorgeous was worn by Mrs.
C. L. Jones over a parchment moire frock.
It was of ermine with a fox collar, and
on her head she had a mandarin cap of the
same fur with three tails for its tassel.
There is one Sydney man who won’t
be exactly desolated when Admiral Teddy
Evans hands over his job and leaves these
shores —Wally Marks, M.P. Before the
hero of the Broke arrived Wally regularly
gave lectures on “The Dover Patrol.” He
hasn’t given one since, as the Admiral, with
bland indifference to the laws governing
what the Courts call longi temporis pos-
setssio, grabbed the member for Wentworth’s
favorite clap of thunder and gave it a new
and much more impressive sound. Admiral
Evans’s most spectacular work during the
World War was done as a Dover Patrol
officer, and whenever he attends a public
function which is suited to the purpose he
gives an account of the grim business.
The Plaza, Sydney’s most temperamental
movie palace, was all color on Wednes-
day night, and Spanish senoritas bearing
torches waved greetings. A good deal of the
city’s beauty, chivalry and remaining wealth
had gathered there to view the unwinding of
“Ilast Lynne.” The Governor came along
with Lady Game, the cherubic “Giff” and
Miss Crowdy. He had a personal interest in
the show. A Fox shot revealed him inspect-
ing the batteries of an artillery brigade at
lloldsworthy seated on an animal that looked
a cross between a Shetland and a Clydes-
dale —that is, it resembled the former for
size and the latter for conformation.
Admiral Evans, his handsome missus and
the Stevensons were near by, and they were
dragged into the show, too. “Our Navy,”
showed the R.A.N. at battle practice, .and
when the Admiral appeared on the screen
and gave a snappy Nelsonian address the
cheers were, as the saying goes, deafening.
It was a matey kind of audience.
“Keep your nose to the grindstone,” was
the sound advice given by J. S. McDonald,
Director of the Art Gallery, to the women
painters and students on Friday night, after
Henry Braddon had formally opened at the
Education Gallery the 21st exhibition of the
society. Later everyone had a look at Olive
Birkenhead’s “In Sheltered Haven,” winner
of the George Taylor Memorial Prize for “the
most meritorious picture in the exhibition.”
The artist has worked in low tones, and there
is an air of restfulness about the boat and
the big tree mirrored in calm water. Among
the groups that congratulated the green-clad
young painter were Mrs. Hubert Fairfax,
the Braddon lady, the D. H. Souters, and
English painter W. L. Calderwood and his
wife.
The exhibition shows some work of fine
quality. The Bridge has been a source of
inspiration to Elaine Coghlan and Laura
Booth, and Gwen Barrenger’s “Steep Streets”
gives another view. H. Dreyer shows a water-
color portrait of a dark-haired girl in pink
spreading skirts banded in silver; she holds
a half-spread peacock fan on her knees. And
if Winifred Caddy lives in the cottage at
the end of “My Summer Garden,” she may
well be proud of the pink and mauve blos-
soms she has for her view. Out of all the
little friends of Frank Payne (Mrs. A. Clin-
ton) “Mary Paul” in the sunlit garden and
“Peter at Tea” are perhaps the most fasci-
nating. In the craft section Vi Eyre’s
pottery claims a lot of attention, as always,
and Daisy Dowse’s lyre-bird jug is a thing
of unusual beauty.
This is a Rene Pardon picture of Dieu-
donne Waldron, playing “opposite” Frank
Harvey in “Possessions.” The pretty
girl is in real life Mrs. Wallace Arnott,
wife of one
of the junior
members of the
biscuit fi rm,
but for stage
purposes she
takes the pater-
nal name. Her
father was the
American
actor Charles
Waldron, a
matinee idol of
25 years ago;
May Kin g,
one of Syd-
ney’s belles
and a niece of
Mr s. Jo h n
Spencer Brun-
to n, became
his bride.
Dieudonne has
. appeared in
pictures in
America, so she comes to _ the hoards with
experience as well as inherited talent.
The city cinemas are slowly but surely
replacing their American organists and
orchestra leaders with Australians. Eric
Mareo, the composer who recently arrived
in Sydney from Italy, has taken over the
conductor’s baton at the State. (He isn’t
as foreign as he sounds: he was born in
Sydney, and is own brother to Bill Curtis,
K.C.I And Knight Barnett, another Aus-
tralian, is the new organist at the Prince
Edward. Also, American canned music
seems to be on the retreat. This form of
art, or whatever it is, certainly has its
disadvantages. The directors of the Plaza,
which hasn’t an orchestra, realised when the
vice-regals accepted their invitation to the
gala production of “East Lynne’’ that their
instrument wasn’t capable of playing God
Save the King” satisfactorily. They had to
gag the thing and bring the orchestra from
the Regent on the other side of George-
street to blare out the Anthem.
Science House, in Gloucester-street. is the
Royal Society’s new home; it was officially
opened without fuss or feathers by Sir
Philip Game on Thursday afternoon. On
the preceding night the retiring president.
Professor Von wilier, at the. 75th annual
meeting, said that while scientists could help
in the solution of many difficulties that faced
Governments, if called upon to handle finan-
cial affairs they would probably make as
big a hash of them as the average politician.
But the fact that the society’s balance-sheet
shows a credit in this year of deficits sug-
gests that the professor was unduly modest.
Before vacating the chair Professor Von-
willer presented the Clarke Hospital medal
to Dr. R. J. Tillyard, who is an authority
on dragon-flies, among other things.
The N.S.W.
Music - teach-
er s’ Confer-
ence, which
will take place
between' May
25 and 31,
has booked
.soprano Gwen
Selva among
its women
speakers. The
subject she
will expound
at 11.30 on
May 28 in
Paling’s con-
cert hall is
“The Artist
in Relation to
Singing,” and
she knows it
t h o r o ughly ;
she sings in
five languages
and is equally at home in opera or
lieder. She has given recitals at most
of the London concert halls, and has
appeared in company with Hubert Eisdell,
Ruth Draper and Ethel Hobday. Her
listeners have included many royalties,
among them the lady who was Queen Ena
of Spain until a few weeks ago.
The breeze these days has not been alto-
gether responsible for the rustling of the
leaves of the Wishing Tree at the Gardens.
This has been caused by the sigh of relief
that went up from old and young alike when
it was found that their old friend was not to
come down. Does the spirit of Mrs. Mac-
quarie hover over its branches, promising
all to make their dreams come true ?
Whatever it is, the Wishing Tree has
the power to lure the visitor from the
most brilliant flower-beds to make obeisance.
Children love it, and with the gravity of
youth walk the magic three times round; the
flapper is no longer modern when beneath
its spell, and the older generation get back
something of their youth as they pause to
watch the ritual.
It is 23 years since Mark H'ambourg was
in Australia; when he returns to Sydney
this month he will bring with him his wife,
who was the Hon. Dorothea Mackenzie,
daughter of Lord Muir Mackenzie, of legal
fame. The lady is slight and easily overtops
her chubby husband. The Ilambourgs have
four nice daughters, and they do a great
deal of entertaining at their London home,
which overlooks all the green beauty of
Regent’s Park. The eldest daughter, Sonia,
is a journalist, who writes to the glory of the
new young, which every age has had and
will have. Old Art, however, finds honored
room in the house in Regent’s Park, where
a Leonardo da Vinci and a Botticelli hold
pride of place. Mark is a many-sided person.
He savors the quality of wine and cigars
with as much discernment as he would a
composition for the piano. He has just com-
pleted a book of memoirs, and he generally
gives no fewer than 120 recitals a year la
England, in addition to his overseas tours.
Lately too, he has made his screen debut
in a film of the life of Beethoven, of whose
works he is among the greatest living expo-
nents.
Pianist Mark Hambourg and his wife
left a sorrowing daughter behind in England.
Sonia Hambourg, on the staff of London
“Daily Express,” was engaged to. be married
to a young librarian at the Bodleian, Oxford.
Only a week before the date fixed for the
marriage he died suddenly. Miss Hambourg
is a graduate of Somerville College, Oxford.
Marjorie Barnard and Flora Eldershaw,
the Sydney girls who won the first Bulletin
Novel’ Competition, have achieved a curious
sort of distinction with the novel that won
it for them. “A House Is Built” is now
in the limited list of Harrap’s “sealed
romances”: you buy it, break the seal, read,
and get your money back if you’re dis-
satisfied.- Their second story of early Syd-
ney has just arrived from the same pub-
lisher, and has been tasted and found good.
Hugo Larsen, tlie new man to break mt
concert management in Australia, claims
Copenhagen as his birthplace, and Copen-
hagen claims the opera as the event ot its
social season. In June Mark Hambourg an
Peter Dawson appear under his banner at
the Town Hall, and that’s not a bad begin-
ning from the point of view of Australian
audiences.
The little ones at Blackfriars Demonstra-
tion School are so used to visitors that tliej
were not a bit self-conscious when Lany
Game and the Mayoress called on them last
week. They went gaily about their playing
and their tasks, and there was nothing more
interesting than their conducting for their
own singing. They showed that they would
be quite capable of being their own health-
agents, which, as Miss Stephens afterwards
told the grown-ups, was the big aim of the
school. Miss M. M. Simpson (the originator
of the experimental health schools) spoke
of the good results that come from the serv-
ing of milk to the children, an experiment
first started at Blackfriars, and now widely
adopted.
Five hundred good friends of St. George
District Hospital betook themselves to Mark
Foy’s one night last week to do their bit
towards vanquishing the dragon of debt
(£10,000) which the hospital is struggling
with. Lady Game was in black chiffons pat-
terned with golden poppies, her presentation
bouquet of pink roses and carnations adding
to the pictorial effect.; Miss Crowdy in georg-
ettes green as a dew-washed meadow. With
them in military mess uniform came Captain
Secombe, for the first time in his capacity as
aide. At the official table were Mr. N. I.
Neilson (president of the hospital) and Mrs.
Neilson (president of the ball committee), in
black georgette and lace; the lion, organiser,
Mrs E. P. Jolls, in moss-green satin; secre-
tary Mrs. F. R. Hayton, in green brocades;
and treasurer Matron Pritchard, who bright-
ened her black velvets with red and cream
Somebody in the Levitzki company re-
marked the other morning that there seemed
a song to express every phase of life. An-
other then asked: “What song would express
an American woman drinking a cocktail m
a hotel lounge?” Levitzki replied quickly:
“She Is Far from the Land!”
Brisbane bungs in :—■
There was a good attendance for the opening day
of the Q.T.C. May races at Ascot, where the
green of the lawns is set off hy golden and brown
chrysanthemums and scarlet salvia. The Governor
lunched with the committee, and Lady Goodwin,
who arrived later, had a tea party on the verandah.
She wore ash rose and a wide-brimmed hat to tone ;
Mrs. R. H. Edkins (Bimbah) was in black, with
a scarf of rose, and Mrs. R. Adams (Adelaide) in
broidered ivory crepe de Chine with ivory felt hat.
On the second day Lady Goodwin was in black
pin spot erfipe de Chine and black hat; Mrs.
'Tully’s navy patterned satin was worn with navy
and white hat; periwinkle blue and ivory was
worn by Madge Macdonald; Mrs. Gilbert Wilson
chose black with a daffodil scarf; Mrs. J. T. Bell
was in burgundy, and black and white was worn by
Mrs. A. H. Whittingham.
At St. Stephen’s Church, Toowoomba, Colin M.
Gibson married Phyllis Isabel Norris. The bride,
who was given away by J. Shaw Thompson, was
in ivory bridal satin and a veil of pink tulle from
a Juliet cap, caught with the half-circlet of orange
blossom her mother had worn on her wedding dar.
Gleam Norris ’maided in green taffetas and tulle;
Enid Norris, similarly frocked, was flower girl. The
’moon started with an aeroplane trip from Brisbane
to Sydney.
In the Methodist Church, Ashgrove, Charles Holmes
and Pearl Thomson were made one. The bride, who
was given away by her father, was in ivory crepe
de Chine and Brussels-laee veil. Ada Willmot and
Gwen and Evelyn Illidge were ’maids, the first
wearing shell pink and gold; the others were in
powder blue. The Ann Hathaway saw the feasting.
The Brisbane General Hospital gets £lOOO under
the will of W. A. McGuffie; the Presbyterian Inland
Mission receives a like amount, and another £lOOO
goes towards prevention and cure of .consumption.
When the present King was in Brisbane 30 years
ago McGuffie made up a throat prescription for him
which enabled the chemist to claim that he was
“under Royal patronage.” He was a well-liked Scot,
and is affectionately remembered, though for years
he made his home in the South.
“The Love Race,” staged for the first time in
Australia at His Majesty’s, has some acceptable
comedy, along with graceful dancing and pretty
frocking. Josie Melville wears several. chic gowns,
including an ivory white and a delectable green,
while Elsie Prince looks her best in a green leather
motoring suit. Meantime George Wallace is keep-
ing his end up at the Royal.
Uni. students staged a capital march-past on
Commem. day. “Yes, We Have No Munganas,” made
a hit, and . fiduciary notes filled the air.
The City Hall was packed in the afternoon for
the conferring of degrees. Chancellor Blair was in
the middle of the stage, and around him were the
Mayor, Vice-Chancellor Robertson, Archbishop Sharp,
Professors Michie, J. J- and Goddard,
and Dr. Cumbrae Stewart, wimFreda Bage the only
woman. In the audience were ine Blair and Philp
ladies, Mrs. Watson, 'Mrs. F. Cumbrae Stewart, the
wives of the professors, Martha Bums, Dr. Hamlyn
Harris and others.


■vL
\
Ifi
/
V
N
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
FULL FASHIONED
HOSIERY
jlnestije
AN AUSTRALIAN CREATION


Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
° J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M'g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE LOVE RACE
(Commencing Saturday).
CRITERION: THE SPOT ON THE SUN.
TOWN HALL, SYDN E Y.
Direction Hugo Larsen.
SATURDAY, JUNE 6, at 8.
Also JUNE 9, 11 and 13.
The Colossal Musical Attraction of 1931.
HUGO LARSEN AND CO.
FOR THE IN AUSTRALIA,
the joint appearance of
MARK HAMBOUKG,
THE GREAT RUSSIAN MASTER PIANIST.
“There is no greater player of Beethoven to-day.”—
“Kveniny Standard,” London.
And
PETER DAWSON,
THE WORLD’S MOST POPULAR SINGER.
Ten Million of His Records Have Been Sold.
PRELIMINARY BOOKING.
Applications for Reserved Seats (price, 7/6, plus
tax, total 8/9) are now being received at Nicholsons.
I. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
AND
TRIAL BY JURY.
COMEDY THEATRE: LOYALTIES,
With FRANK HARVEY and brilliant company.
Missing Friends.
ANNIE CLARKE, wife of Joe Clarke, last
heard of in Kalgoorlie (W.A.), is sought
by her sister Mrs. Elizabeth O’Connor, c/o
Marr’s, Tank Street, Brisbane.
ALEX., send some word. Very anxious.
Did you see advt. 14th March? Put
advt. in this paper. Very lonely, Helen.
Why can’t Governor Game dismiss
Lang? This was explained in “The
Barrier Miner” last Friday. Also how
to enable him to do it.
This bright Far-Western daily holds
the lead outside Sydney. Miners,
Pastoralists, Bosses, Wage-slaves all
read it right through every day.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Ten Rooms
Pho[?] C[?] [?]For [?]
[?]kl[?] [?]Nu[?] L[?]
[?]
The opening of the State Parliament, at
which Lord Somers officiated for the last
time, was a shabby sort of affair from the
dressmaker’s standpoint. The man in the
street showed but little interest in the hap-
penings outside the House, and only a hand-
ful of onlookers gazed upon the khaki-uni-
formed guard of honor. Even the arrival of
his Ex. in yards of gold braid and a red and
white plumed hat, escorted by policemen
on grey gee-gees, failed to arouse enthusiasm.
Within the Chamber figures moved spook-
ily among the maroon velvet-cushioned,
polished wood pews. Possibly as a measure
of political economy the switching on of the
electric light was delayed, and in the gloom
every woman seemed clothed in black or
dark brown. When the illumination did
arrive just before the proclamation was
read, the dressing didn’t look much brighter,
being mostly a matter of ensemble suits of
navy, black or nigger, with fur coats, felt
hats and berets in equally sombre shades.
With such a background his Ex. and his
attendant officers in uniform made a start-
ling 'splash of color. There was a good roll-
up of onlookers, the ladies’ gallery
being crowded; but—pol. econ. again—
afternoon tea was cut out. Nevertheless
some of thd women found the performance
so thrilling that they stood upon the sacred
leather benches to get a good keck. If that
had happened only a few years ago the
heavens would have fallen. The Speech from
the Throne opened with a personal reference,
his Ex. making his farewells and expressing
his regrets at leaving the State in June.
After that he plunged into a maze of words
in which “employment,” “sustenance,”
“relief,” “maintenance,” “financial depres-
sion” and “deficit” cropped up with alarm-
ing frequency.
Lady Somers wore pointed fox furs and
a sapphire-blue coat with a cape, which
covered a grey frock. Her felt hat was
navy. With her was the wife of Frank
Clarke, President of the Uppish House; she
sported a golden-brown hat, black coat and
fawn frock. Mrs. R. T. A. McDonald and
Miss Speir also accompanied the vice-regal
lady. Mrs. Richard Linton’s gown and hat
were of beige tint. Miss Neville Collins’s navy
tailor-made had a lengthy Russian tunic of
tourmaline-pink crepe de Chine, and her
navy felt hat was ruclied round with velvet,
somewhat after the style of a Dutch bonnet.
Mrs. Eric Harrison, in black and white,
brought her schoolgirl-daughter Gretta, who,
like her grandfather, George Prendergast,
had a birthday that day. Amongst others
in the throng were Archbishop Head, a whole
raft of Consuls, Mrs. James Purves, Mrs.
Rolls, Dr. Ethel Osborne, Mrs. J. P. Jones,
the Misses Turner, Mrs. Tom Tunnecliffe
and Mrs. John Allan.
Uniforms imparted color to the hop given
by the officers of the Uni. Rifles at No. 9.
Lieut.-Col. J. A. Clareborougli and his
wife gave greeting to guests, she in
black velvet with a glistening of cry-
stal. Captain A. D. Teele organised the
jolly affair. Brigadier-General Brand brought
his daughter Lorna, roseate-frocked. Mrs.
Rupert Downes sported a glitter of crystal
and silver that shaded into a skirt of black
chiffon. Mrs. D. A. Luxton, who was
escorted by her colonel, was robed in navy
lace and ninon. There was a multitudinous
bevy of young girls in soft draperies that
swirled about silken hose and satin shoes.
Fifteen thousand people assembled around
the oval at Wattle Park to view the troopinv
of the colors by the 24th Battalion, under
Lieut.-Col. S. G. Savige. It was the anni-
versary of the Battle of Bullecourt, in which
the 24th fought. The oval, which com-
mands a wonderful panoramic view of the
city, was like a green plush carpet, when with
a fanfare of trumpets the soldiers of the past
and present lined up, Diggers, in mufti,
flanked by troops in khaki. For the first
time in the history of this ceremony a body
of cadets took part, looking very smart in
the French blue uniform and forage caps
or the Camberwell Grammar School corps.
At the saluting base, where waved the Union
Jack and the Australian flag, the King’s
Colors, with guard, were placed during man-
oeuvres. Brigadier-General Blarney took the
salute. Once a soldier always a soldier, for
the men in sac suits and Akubras kept strict
alignment and the click of war medals
chimed exactly with moving feet. There were
slow marching and quick marching and
various evolutions were carried out to every-
one’s satisfaction. General Blarney and the
Mayors of Camberwell and of Box Hill con-
gratulated all responsible. At St Kilda
Esplanade the 14th Battalion conducted a
similar ceremony, attracting about 5000
onlookers.
Collectors for the Lud Mayor’s Fund
rattled boxes at every street corner one day
last week, when 800 vended buttons, pansy
badges or flowers. Waggon-loads of blooms,
berries and foliage came from civic gardens
private plots and holiday homes at the sea-
side and hills. To their stores of horticul-
ture many of the sales ladies added home-
made provender from their pantries. The
returned soldiers who run flower stalls in
the city gave their wares most liberally for
the cause.
Our winter season does not promise to be
very exciting. Vice-regal entertainment
most probably will be nil unless the Gover-
nor-General and his lady emerge from their
stronghold in Canberra and give us a hop.
A few ex-.students’ dances are on the calen-
dar, and some dates are marked off for
charity gyrations. Several suburban civic
balls won’t be held this year, the mayoral
allowances for such entertaining being
fumed over to unemployment funds.
On Saturday there was a garden party at
Ormond College in celebration of its fiftieth
anniversary. Chancellor MacFarland, D. Iv.
Picken, the Master of Ormond, and Mrs.
Picken did the honors. Powder-blue crepe
satin with a matching felt hat and flecked
grey and blue tweed coat was worn by the
hostess, who was assisted by her daughter
Margaret.
Thousands assembled on the lawns and
stands of Moouee Valley racecourse on
Saturday to see the finish of the Aero Club’s
races. There was a “Head of the Air”
event for old public-school boys, each pilot
being nominated by a school and carrying
colors accordingly. N. Trescowtliick, Wes-
ley College, was the winner. “The Oaks” for
Women pilots, was won by Miss F. M. Thomp-
son, who beat Betty Fairbairn on the post,
or whatever is the aeronautical equivalent.
Lieutenant J. Reece, who parachuted .from
a ’plane, was a cause of anxiety till he cleared
the bookmakers’ stands on the flat and
gently touched the green sward, where he
was instantly surrounded by a horde
of small boys. Occupying a central position
on the track was the club’s new Moth amphi-
bian, which was christened “Land and Sea”
by Bubbles Merrett, of the. Topsy Turvy co.
St. Patrick’s Old Collegians’ Association
had an at-home in the College Hall. Mar-
garet Kerr recited selections from A. A.
Milne, Stephen Leacock and others. Tenor
Walter Kirby, Cecily Kelly, Jean Lewis,
Mrs. H. Cahill, Dorothy Hulls and Kathleen
Forbes contributed to the entertainment.
The president of the Old Collegians, F. F.
Clausen, and Mrs. Clausen received the
guests, along with Father Bourke, rector of
St. Pat.’s.
At the Victoria League’s at-home four
Uni. Con. students hushed chatter and the
rattle of teacups with music. Carrie Cairn-
duff sajig, Ilermia Barton played her fiddle,
Agnes Scott, her ’cello, and Lorna Trist sup-
plied pianoforte backing for all three.
G. W. Paton, first occupant of the Uni’s
new chair of Jurisprudence, was wel-
comed at a party at the Lyceum Club
rooms arranged by Prof. Agar, head
of the Professorial Board, and Mrs.
Agar. Purple irises and pink gladioli, con-
trasted with banks of brown and gold chry-
santhemums and masses of holly, decked the
rooms. The hostess wore metal brocade of
silver and pink upon black; her schoolgirl
daughter Peggy, in maize-colored lace, lent
a helping hand, aided by her brothers Wil-
fred and John. Among the 300 guests were
the parents of the new professor, the Rev.
and Mrs. F. Paton, and their daughters
Peggy and Betty.
At the British Music Society’s concert,
held at the Lyceum Club rooms, the piano-
forte music of modern composers was the
subject of an introductory talk by Lorna
Stirling, illustrated by John Simons, who
played Sydney-sider Roy Agnew’s “Fantasie-
Sonata,” a short piece by Paul Hinde-
mith, a number of compositions by Ernst
Toch and Delius’s C minor Concerto, for
which Lorna Trist represented the orchestra
on a second piano. Toch’s music was much
enjoyed, being both whimsical and witty.
In the audience were the president, Thomas
Brentnall, the hon. sec., Sibyl Hull, Mrs.
Ernest Scott, the Harold Brownings, Mrs.
A. Law, Rita Hope and Katie Liddle.
Present at the opening of this State’s
30th Parliament was the Peacock lady, wife
of the Speaker of the Leg. Assembly. She
is jocularly called the deputy-member for
Allendale, for
on many occa-
sions she has
iaken her hus-
band’s place
when duties
called him
elsewhere. Her
married life
has been large-
ly mingled
with political
history, com-
mencing with
her wedding,
which was on
New Year’s
Day, 1901—
the first day
of Federation.
The wedding
ring and a
solid gold
cardcase were
gifts from the
Berry Consols Co., of Creswick, of which
the bridegroom was manager. The Speak-
er’s wife, who was Milly Holden, be-
longs to a Port Fairy family, and since
her change of name has resided at Creswick.
She is a keen worker for all local charities,
president of the Women’s League and an
active member of the Ladies’ Benevolent
and Red Cross societies. Her husband, who
will be 70 in June, has an unbroken record
of 42 years in Parliament, said to be the
longest in the Empire.
The Victoria League sponsored an address
by Major R. G. Casey, who spoke at
Kelvin Hall about European affairs and
Australia’s dependence on Britain. The
affair was hon.-secretaried by the Mauds-
ley lady, Irvine, C.J.. was in the
chair, and in the audience were the
Irvine lady, Mrs. J. Alston, Mrs. R. G.
Casey, sen., the lecturer’s wife, the Russell
Grimwades, the Arthur Robinsons, and the
Harrison Moores.
The Alliance Frangaise met at Kelvin
Hall to be entertained by two sketches of
Tristan Bernard’s, adapted for the stage by
the producer, and a musical programme
arranged by Mrs. Sheila Marsden. In be-
tween was sandwiched a lecturette by Mons.
Th. Rouel on Adrienne Lecouvreur. Music
was made by Mrs. Marsden, who sang; by
Coral Trenerry, with her fiddle; and by
pianists Mrs. Clarke and Eleanor King.
The Alfred Hospital’s new wing, which
will be ready for occupation in September,
will contain a section for paying patients
with from one to six beds in a room. The
Caulfield race meeting in aid of the insti-
tution brought in over £l4OO. The hospi-
tal’s little shop is proving profitable—£436
in the last 12 months.
At the Symphony Orchestra’s concert at
the Town Hall Rieke Parker was soloist
in a performance of the “Emperor” con-
certo. The player, who trailed black lace
draperies, received a bewilderingly large
number of floral tributes. Fritz Hart’s
arrangement of the sailors’ chanty “Shenan-
doah” was played for the first time.
Queen Victoria Hospital, run by women
for women, which has an overdraft of
£40,000 and is otherwise hard up, is appeal-
ing to the public for £50,000. As a means
of encouraging shilling subscriptions, a Book
of Remembrance is to be kept, in which the
names of all donors will be inscribed. The
campaign was opened at the Town Hall by
Lady Somers, and £164 was sent in by
persons unable to attend the meeting.
Molly, daughter of Mrs. S. R. Fyson, of
Malvern, changed her name last week at
All Saints’, Darling, when she became Mrs.
Nelson Furze. Knight Alexander Peacock
handed his niece over, her bridal array being
ivory-tinted lace and tulle mounted upon a
roseate lining. Two ’maids were in harmony
in frocks of pink and pale yellow respec-
tively.
Ex-Premier Prendergast (Vic.) held a
sort of unofficial levee in Queen’s Hall, Par-
liament House, Melbourne, on the day the
session opened. It was his 77tli birthday,
and as it was also Accession Day he was
accused of having “one day in common”
with George V. Deputy-Premier Tunnecliffe,
Opposition-leader Argyle and Speaker Pea-
cock all joined in wishing many happy re-
turns to the old war-horse.
Ambrose
Pratt, pictured
here by Fran-
cie You ng,
tells of a grand
holiday in
“M a g i c a 1
Malaya.” Mr.
Pratt has had
a long asso-
ciation with
Australian let-
ters and com-
merce and is
president of
the Melbourne
Zoolo.g ical
Gardens. II is
latest book,
though pub-
lished in Mel-
bourne, was
written in
Sydney.
A southerly from Adelaide :
A most successful ball was that given at the
Maison Glenelg, at which his Ex. was present. The
five hostesses, the Newland lady, Mesdames Clive
Milne, Malcolm Tweedie, Lisle Johnson and Sey-
mour Hawker, each had a debutante daughter at her
side when receiving the guests. The Maison was
massed with dahlias, gladioli and chrysanthemums
and the supper-tables were decked with roses. The
debs, all wore white or cream, except Mollie New-
land, who was flocked in pale pink satin; an un-
commonly pretty dress was Mary Johnson’s parch-
ment silk net with full skirt flounced from waist to
the ground. There was quite a riot of silk lace
among the matrons’ toilettes, black and beige pre-
dominating. N
At the Port Adelaide Club’s races at Cheltenham
Dr. A. V. Benson (chairman) and Mrs. Benson
entertained at afternoon tea. Tweed tailored suits,
with toques of the same tweed, were the most
popular wear. Mrs. Benson’s black face-cloth coat
trimmed with Persian lamb was worn with a small
black felt hat. In the evening the Theatre Royal
was crowded for the first performance of “The New
Moon,” good voices, charming frocking and haunt-
ing refrains making a most enjoyable show.
The committee of the Adelaide Hospital (Mrs.
T. R. Scarfe, president) organised a bridge party in
the Town Hall. It is an annual affair, and over 70
tables were engaged. Messrs. Charles Moore, Mrs.
J. H. Saunders and Mrs. J. Wood donated the
prizes, which were presented by the Chief Secretary.
The Premier’s wife (Mrs. L. L. Hill) looked after
the refreshments.
The East Torrens branch of the Mothers and Babies’
Health Association held its annual dance in the
Norwood Town Hall, and a cheery affair it was.
The supper, contributed by the large committee of
women, was of the best, and the decorations were
carried out in mixed flowers.
The Hackney Free Kindergarten benefited consider-
ably by a large bridge party at Landovey, the
beautiful home of the president (Mrs. W. F. 0.
Grote). Ballroom, drawing-room and smoking-room
were filled with tables, and supper was handed round.
A South Australian artist, Mrs. H. B. W. Wyn-
yard, daughter of Mrs. A. S. Fotheringham, who has
been residing in London for the past year, recently
showed some of her work in plaster moulding at
the Royal Amateur Art Society’s Exhibition. Queen
Mary, who was among the visitors, was struck with
an artistic design, the “Cottage Bunch,” and pur-
chased the bowl of flowers.
From Westralia: —
The Perth committee of the Silver Chain, a society
which cares for aged folk in cottage homes and has
a land of nurses to attend the poor, ran a card-
shuffle the other night in the Karrakatta Club hall.
The league’s hon. superintendent, Mrs. Weller, Nurse
Cherry and Noel White (the “Western Mail’s” “Aunt
Mary”) were to the fore.
Associates of Mt. Yokine Golf Club ran a bridge
afternoon on the club’s behalf. Russet and pink chry-
santhemums curled their petals in the lounge and
white and gold blooms glowed in the dining-room.
Norah Hassell and Mrs. Alec Hardy saw to every-
one’s comfort. A white blouse peeped beneath Mrs.
Peter Bennett’s black satin costume ; Mrs. Max Rutter
was arresting in Paris-blue; a magpie rig was favored
by Mrs. Nelson Mills and a small cheque pattern by
Mrs. Perry; Eileen Foley wore a green coat and hat.
Mrs. W. C. Hardy, Mrs. P. Felton, Mrs. Chappie,
Mrs. J. Bunning, Gladys McDaniels, Sylvia Miles,
Mrs. Heppingstone, Miss Arundel and a trio of prize-
winners, Mrs. Healy, Mrs. Phillips and Miss Keenan,
were noticed in the crowd.
Mr. Musgrove and Kittie Gillies were early birds at
Fremantle wharf to meet the Ormonde and welcome
the Peter Dawson couple to Australia. A number of
musical folk were invited to meet the visitors at
studio CML, where Mr. Dawson spoke through the
microphone.
Girls, behind ribbon counters were kept busy before
Boat-race Day. The Park and Mount’s Bay-road were
thronged with spectators for the race, in which
Christian Brothers’ College had their sixth successive
win—a striking tribute to ’their coach, C. J.
Wroblewski.
Colonel and Mrs. Heath, of Fairbridge Farm School,
are off this week for a three-month trip to the Cold
Country.
Isobel Austin James, daughter of Mrs. A. B. Gloster,
of Coorow, and of the late T. R. James, has become
affianced to Reg, younger son of Mr. R. Crommelin,
of West Perth: Songbird Lillian Crisp has announced
her engagement to Lambert Ogborne.
Mrs. Louis Joubert, Mrs. Oats and Connie Wardell-
Johnson joined hands for an informal dance a e
Automobile Club. Dahlias, tecomas and chrysanthe-
mums adorned the lounge and the smaller an e
rooms. Mrs. Joubert wore figured silk lace ovei ue.
Mrs. Oats chose pink velvet, and Miss Wardeli-
Johnson a tiered gown of love-in-the-mist taffetas.
The Repertory Club’s secretary, Molly Ick, who has
been granted a year’s leave of absence, boards t e
Esperance Bay this week for the Big Smoke. Tom
McGregor will occupy her desk till her return.
Good-looking Mrs. Heron, of Singapore, with hus-
band and small daughter, is renewing girlhood fnend-
ships here. The trio have taken Judge Drapers
house in King’s Park-road for three months. Mrs.
Heron is a daughter of the Wittenoom knight.
Hale School Old Boys held their customary dance
on Boat-race Night in the school hall, festive with
blue streamers and rosy lights. The Harmony Gills
Orchestra added to the decoration. The G.B.C.
crew put in an appearance after their celebration
dinner and there were lusty cheers for both ciewo.
Mrs. Le Couteur, in trailing black laces, accom-
panied the headmaster. Edna Piper, Gwennie
Male, Ngaei'e Purser, Dulcie Duncan, Mollie Noble,
Ena Coekram and Beryl Randell were in the bevy
of bright young things.
From the Speck :
To raise the wind for the Free Kindergarten
Association, Mrs. Howard Buchanan and, a hard-
working committee got up a May Day Ball at the
Continental. About 400 dancers and sympathisers
turned up. The supper was contributed by the
various branches, and quite a handsome cheque was
earned by the effort, though a good deal more is
required to carry on the year’s work.
Professor Burn, of our Uni., left by the Otranto
for a visit to the Cold Country. Another outward-
bound Hobartian is H. H. Cummins, who goes to
attend the International Conference of Rotary at
Vienna.
Mrs. Wilfrid Giblin bade a crowd of friends to her
house in Davey-street to see daughter Nancy’s
presents and “pretties.” Wedding invitations are
to be limited to the bride’s intimate young friends
and the large clan of relatives. Mrs. Giblin received
in a graceful frock of black lace and georgette, and
the bride-elect w'as in her favorite blue. Tea was
served in the dining-room, the table decorated with
autumn blooms, and the trousseau and gifts were
on view upstairs. ,
Lucy, younger daughter of the W. Jacksons, Dover,
and Bain Drake, son of Mrs. and the late Dr. F.
J. Drake, entered into a life-partnership at Holy
Trinity, Hobart. The bride’s frock was delphinium-
blue georgette and lace; Nancy Eady ’maided in
navy blue supple satin with lines of pale pink.
Members of - the University Advisory Board on
Music met the visiting delegates of the Aust.
Musical Exam. Board in the Uni. library. Dean
Rivers presided, and several of the delegates, includ-
ing Professor Bernard Heinze (Melb.), gave short
addresses which were interspersed with musical items
by local artists.
Mrs. Ethel O’Connor, an old Hobartian visiting her
home town after many years spent in Queensland,
was farewelled at the Lyceum Club by members and
friends and also at the Coo-ee Club. A painting of
her old home and birthplace, Kemp House, Collins-
street, was presented to her as a memento.
Prof. Heinze conducted at the Orchestral Society’s
concert in the Town Hall. Quite the best programme
ever submitted by the society had been prepared,
and Madame Vera Tasma, as soloist, was in fine
voice. The professor had some kind things to say
and some useful advice to give the society afterwards.
Very quiet, with no fuss or frills, was the wedding
of Sibyl, elder daughter of the C. A. H. Youls,
Perth, and Charles, son of the late Mr. and Mrs. T.
Gunn. Rev. C. E. Jones tied the knot at Chalmers
Church; the bride, who was given away by her
father, sported an ensemble of navy tweed flecked
with white and topped by a blue and white hat.


South Africa and England
by
the blue funnel
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
(Euripides . . 15,000 tons, Sept. 9
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Oct. 5
jCeramic .. 18,500 „ Oct. 24
Anchjses . . 10,000 , „ Nov. 23
Tlhemistocles 12,500 „ Dec. 2
Jurst class only. fFirst and third class.
JCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
w
ŵ
p. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
® ne Class Only,
TO Jfr YMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
“T 1 ? at J! Coloinbo . Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPE mM E S LE £, CDISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS— CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
„tt Passenger Agents.
Tel •S EIST ’ WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
lei.. R 6701 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
_ . MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., 7 7
247 George Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme Court of
Victoria made in the action 1931 No. 270 in
which Priscilla Day and others are Plaintiffs and
THE CURATOR OF THE ESTATES of deceased
persons Defendant the persons claiming to be the
next of kin to JOHN THOMAS CANTY late of the
Metropolitan Mission Bourke Street. Melbourne in the
State of Victoria Dealer deceased intestate who died
on the eighth day of December 1922 are by their
solicitors on or before the twenty-fourth day of
June 1931 to come in and prove their claims at the
office of the Chief Clerk Law Courts William Street
Melbourne aforesaid or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said
order. The eighth day of July 1931 at eleven o’clock
m the forenoon at the said office is appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this twenty-seventh day of April, 1931.
M. M. PHILLIPS, Chief Clerk.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 447 of 1931.
Between ELVIE MARJORIE JONES Petitioner
And RICHARD HENRY' JONES Respondent.
To RICHARD HENRY JONES late of Queen Street
Concord West New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Elvie Marjorie Jones
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the ground of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the twenty-eighth day of July 1931 and
in the event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined yoiu
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitors free of charge.
Dated this thirtieth day of April, 1931.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BODY, i
Chief Clerk in Divorce. j
R. E. COLEMAN, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Parramatta.
By his agents: C. M. MARSH & HARVEY
28 Martin Place, Sydney.
Public Notice.
I N
THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED.
view of the forthcoming ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING and the DIVI-
DEND to be recommended thereat, the
Share Transfer Books of the Bank will bo
closed from THURSDAY, the 14th May
1931, to WEDNESDAY, 27th May, 1931'
both days inclusive.
E. H. WREFORD,
Chief Manager.
Head Office, Melbourne.
forco °^
household paces
SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES.
LADYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD,
ii Etc. Etc. Etc. „
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL. STATES 6?
THE PATRIOT
IPIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
RAROTONGA
PEARL OF THE PACIFIC
To meet present conditions a
short, inexpensive holiday ex-
cursion to Rarotonga has been
arranged by the Union S.S. Co.
Leaving Sydney on June 11 by
the “Makura,” those availing
themselves of this opportunity
will make the return voyage
by the “Maunganui,” reaching
Sydney July 4.
First Class return, £45
Second Class return, £34
(No exchange.)
Full particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
w
adfc
'"inipiii
m
'^T\
■ >r.
!*• i
r 7 ! 1
r K.:/ \)
Jr, i'Of•».■?%•
siiii
Jir
iCkgl
• ...
r-‘<
i
—>.
A WINTER TOUR
a
Smooth Water. Native Bazaars. Tropic Isles.
Leaving Sydney
6th JULY, 1931, by S.S. MARELLA (7500 tons).
Deck Cabins. Gymnasium. Swimming Bath.
AN ALL-EXPENSE ROUND TOUR £l2B.
Includes First-class return steamship accommodation,
hotels, two weeks’ motor trip through Java, guides, tips
to hotel servants, etc.
Portion only of fare subject to exchange.
Ask for Folder No. 11.
BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge St., Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adel-
aide, Cairns, Townsville, etc.
“8.-P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up uapital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
ẁ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON,
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office; 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4 300 000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4 ,739!0i2 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Dtvsctovs *
u r a uro Ae,2§2? G E JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
EDWARD H RITCH?E L Kiy6x V - D -- MLCi ° WEN ESM ° ND FRIEND ’
___ General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRST.
OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane Lomh'ird Strppt li 1 n ?
the world
CATC nFpffilT 01 \ G /A e r a TT To kinS t nd Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
to a Z MANAPPr" T HE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“'East Lynne,” at Sydney Plaza, proves
that Mrs. Henry Wood was an inspired
talkie-writer born before her time. The
director didn’t have to alter a material detail
of the famous old tear-compeller. All the
requirements were there—an expensive en-
vironment ; a wife who, when accused of
adultery by her husband on absurdly in-
adequate grounds, hasn’t the sense to tell
him he i.s an idiot, and so involves her
self in ruin; a subtle villain; and un-
limited mother-love and misery. Gonrad
Nagel is the rich attorney whom Lady Isabel
lowers herself by marrying. The references
to liis lowly condition sound odd in a com-
munity where the status of solicitors is
entirely different from what it was in Vic-
torian England; and he and Miss Harding
are as American as Clive Brook (Captain
Levison) is English. The Babelesque effect
is added to by Miss Harding’s father, the
indigent Lord Mount-Severn, being O. P.
Heggie, while Mr. Nagel’s detestable sister
Cornelia is Cecilia Loftus, and as English
as Heggie. Still, they all get away with
it, assisted by some beautiful and convincing
sets, with the result that the Plaza on the
night the writer visited it was wet with
tears and vocal with sniffs. The Fox-Movie-
tone people have poured out money on this
production, with its all-star cast of prin-
cipals and its thousands of supers. If there
are any who still think the stage has a
chance against the screen they should see
the tremendous show and observe how drab
and crude it makes old-time bellowdrama by
contrast.
* * *
Sydney Regent was packed last time the
writer attended, a tribute to an artfully-
mixed programme. In “Min and Bill” Marie
Dressier i.s a disreputable waterside land-
lady with a heart, of gold. Wallace Beery is
a low-comedy sea captain. Min has adopted
Nancy (Dorothy Jordan), and her mission
in life is to save the girl from a blackmail
ing mother (Marjorie Rambeau). The part
enables Miss Dressier to use every weapon
in her artistic armory. Comedy, farce, drama,
rough .sentiment, pathos—she fires them all
off in quick succession and never misses. It
is a tour de force of acting that couldn’t be
matched _by any other movie star, and the
only objection is that it puts the other
performers, not even excepting the gifted
Beery, in the shade. With some of the irre-
levant slapstick cut out “Min and Bill” would
be a worth-while play of its macabre sort.
The other Regent picture, “Once a Sin-
ner” (Fox), proved to be based on a Miss
Dix problem: “Should a Wife Tell?”
Dorothy Mackail is driven by poverty to
live with John Halliday, plutocrat. Then
she meets, loves and marries Joel McCrea,
who is broke but brainy. For a year they
are happy while the great invention is being
perfected. The question of financing the
device arises, and inevitably Halliday re-
appears. The two men meet for the first
time in New York, and McCrea can’t make
out why waiters, orchestra chiefs, expen-
sively-dressed ladies and similar folk know
his wife. He asks about her past. She won’t
tell. They part. The scene changes to
London, and then—by air—to Paris, where
the glycerine tears are kissed away.
Apart from the frayed nature of the plot
this may fairly be called a good produc-
tion. The action is swift. Each point is
effectively made, and then dropped. The
London part is London, and the Paris part
is real, too. Halliday’s poise is admirable,
and so is his English. Dorothy Mackail i.s
her alluring self, and McCrea is right as
the husband. As in .so many other talkies
the weakest feature is the talkie itself.
“Honor Among- Lovers,” seen recently at
Melbourne State, concerns Claudette Col-
bert’s inexplicable preference for a drunken
young ruffian (Monroe Owsley) as against
the millionaire (Frederic March) for whom
sh.e secretaries. Claudette marries the
waster, who leads her a sordid dance, eventu-
ally embezzling the money of her millionaire
patron. To save her spouse from Sing Sing
Claudette offers her shrinking body to the
millionaire, but he rejects it because he
wants her love. EVen this action does not
strain the millionaire’s magnanimity to the
utmost, for later the waster shoots him in
the shoulder, and he goes into the witness-
box and swears he did it himself. After
that what could a poor muddled producer
do but give the beauteous Claudette to the
self-sacrificing millionaire? The second
item, “Kept Husbands,” is by Radio Pictures
and concerns the foolish daughter (Dorothy
Mackail) of a steel magnate. She insists
on marrying one of the magnate’s ‘-‘steel
bosses,” after ascertaining that her father
will settle 50,000 dollars a year on her hus-
band so that he can keep her in the state
of boundless luxury to which' she has been
accustomed. But the “steel boss” has unex-
pected stores of sturdy independence, and
wants her to share a cottage with him until
he has made enough money to live in a
palace as brainlessly absurd as her
pa’s. After sundry tedious vicissitudes he
achieves this consummation and the story
ends happily. Both films are of the sort
that would turn an intelligent archbishop
into an anarchist, and both were wound off,
when present writer surveyed them, to noises
suggestive of a sausage being fried.
# * *
“The Gorilla,” a rare muddle of farce,
mystery and attempted horror, was uuloosed
at Melb. Palace, the playhouse at which
the same animal appeared in the flesh a
couple of years ago. The stage presenta-
tion had an advantage over the screen ver-
sion, inasmuch as the zoological monstrosity
around which the mystery revolves was able
to wander amongst the audience, searing
little girls into fits. The film anthropoid
is obliged to confine its meanderings to the
screen, which cramps its style. In “The
Truth About Youth,” Loretta Young
and Conway Tearle contrive to provide some
moments of amusement in tellin,g the oft-
repeated tale of a young man engaged to his
destined mate who gets run off the rails
by a professional seducer of adolescent
males. The yarn is old but is breezily retold.


AS WE SAID BEFORE-
ẃ
“W. S. Gilbert now sits as an honorary magistrate
on the Middlesex bench.”
The impoverished thief
Who has stolen some beef,
Or the boy who has snavelled a filbert,
Must twang a guitar
When he stands at the bar
To be tried by the humorous Gilbert,
And plead for his pity
By singing a ditty—
Perhaps, though, a pun would be properer
(The song or the pun,
Being certainly one
From a Gilbert and Sullivan opera).
Then the author would say—
“ Little nut, run away
And buy a lot more with this money,”
And would offer relief
To a filcher of beef
Who was doing his best to be funny.
For, though the sharp claw
Of a merciless law
Must seize on the people who purloin,
Sure, a quip or a song
Can atone for what’s wrong
In the theft of a filbert or sirloin.
Oh ! picture the joy
Of the man and the boy,
Both indulging in jubilant dances,
And shouting “Hip ! hip !”
When permitted to skip
On the magistrate’s recognisances.
The “peelers” and “traps”
Would be swearing perhaps,
Though they never had heard such a din
afore,
And want it subdued,
But the show would conclude
With the “Englishman’s” chorus from
“Pinafore.”
[B-8-’9l.]
One of the curiosities of banking. Within
the last few days two institutions m Mel-
bourne have gone on the road where the
defunct bank goes, and they seem to be
A GREAT SURGEON — “FITZ.”
[Dr. Fitzgerald, of Melbourne.]
[24/8/’89.]
strangely tangled up. At least, one of them
owns most of the shares in the other, and
it had borrowed £60,000 from the other on
the security of the said shares, and when
the first bank broke it wanted to collar
most of the second bank’s assets by way
of calls, and the second hank closed up in
alarm, and left the liquidator to sort things
out. This is a good system, if it were only
carried to its legitimate conclusion. The
proper way to run the business is to start
two banks at once, each with a capital of
a million, all paid up, and let each bank
own the whole of the other’s shares. Then
as a natural result each will have a million
pounds, and neither will have a cent, and
everything will be quite correct all round.
Louis Napoleon, in his pre-imperial days,
and the late Earl of Pembroke were botn
badly “shook” on Doche, the great French
actress who created “La Dame aux Camel-
lias.” She did not know which to choose.
Napoleon, it is recorded, pressed his suit
thus: “I cannot marry you, because my
name does not belong to me but to a dynasty,
nor can I afford, to lavish so much money
on you as Lord Pembroke can; but I can tell
you what I will do if you will consent to
refuse his suit. I will promise you never
to marry, even if I become Emperor, and I
will settle a thousand pounds a year on you
for life now, and make you a Countess and
a millionaire if ever I become Emperor. , But
Doclie hadn’t mudh faith in Napoleon s
chances of being Emperor of the French, so
she “cottoned” to “Mad” Pembroke in hopes
that he would lay something like half his
fortune at her feet. She went too far, how-
ever. Day after day she would accept his
lordship’s invitations to supper, and always
at the last moment send an excuse. At last
Lord Pembroke one day said to the late Lord
Clanricarde, who used to tell the story, ‘I
am tired of this folly. I am giving a supper
to-night at Richmond, and I have invited
Doche. If she comes before eleven I will
give her £10,000; if she comes before twelve
I will give her £2000; but if she comes after
twelve I won’t receive her, and if she does
not come at all I will give to-morrow £20,000
to the ugliest woman in London, and the
one our Doclie hates the most Schaeffer, the
demsewse/” Doche did not come to the feast,
and Pembroke, true to his word, presented
£20,000 worth of diamonds to Schaeffer, lhe
lady was hideously ugly and very stupid but
she managed to entangle Pembroke s heart
somehow, and he gave her all the money he
could, and, had not the property been en-
tailed, he would have given her everything.
A distinguished French family is the result
of this strange infatuation. [l2/1/ 89. J
A northern P.M. tells a story about a
young nigger who once came to him to
borrow a spade for the purpose of burying his
aged pa. The magistrate complied with the
request and accompanied him back to la®
camn to see the dead narent —who was laid
out on the ground, wrapped up m ti-troe
bark and bound round with vines. lhe
PM was horrified to see the supposedly-
dead native open and shut his eyes, and said
to the dusky son, “Why, he’s not dead
I just saw him open his eyes. Uh, yes,
he dead,” exclaimed the affectionate young
nigger; “he only gammon!”
There lives in a certain Australian town
a small and perky solicitor who had an
experience once. It was his duty, m the
interests of his client, to issue a writ against
a very large freckled Irish person, and the
latter came in to ask for an explanation He
was grieved but calm, and carried the docu-
ment in his “fisht.” In the other fisht he
had a stick. The small solicitor was alone;
he was sitting at a table at the further end
of the room, and the Irish person was be-
tween him and the door. When the yisitor
had scowled several times he drove his hat
firmly on his head, and the subsequent pro-
ceedings consisted of a monologue in a
powerful bog accent. ‘ Sorr,” said the m-
-1 trader hitting the table per-
suasively with his cudgel,
“ye sint me this paper. Oi ve
just called to ask what ye
mane hy it. If ye can’t tell
me what ye mane by it, it 11
be the worse for yez. Spake
now, can’t yez?” The stick
came down with a fearful
welt on the table. “If ye
don’t spake Oi’ll put yer
skull through the window.
Don’t preshume to addriss
me now. If ye dare to say
a word to me Oi’ll rub yer
ear on the Sure.” The soli-
citor’s knees smote together
and he maintained a dead
silence while his visitor hit
the table in a fresh place
and resumed. “Can’t ye
spake? Now, don’t attimpt
to bully me! Don’t use threatenin’
language ■to me, >or it’ll be the worse
for yez! Don’t look at me with that
overbearin’ expression! If ye think yer goin’
to frighten me ye’re very much mistaken. Oi
just kem in here -to ask ye, calmly _ and
quietly, i what ye mane by sendin’ that dirthy
bit of paper to me, an’ ye use violent lan-
guage an’ -trate .me wid soilent. contimpt.
What did ye do it for? What d’ye mane by
it? Will ye SPAKE?” The small solicitor
sat with his mouth open and glared at his
visitor with a ' petrified. expression, while
the Irish gentleman dented the table again
with his stick .and grew purple with excite-
ment, but .maide'a‘great effort to be calm.
“Look here, now,” he said in a large, hot,
moist whisper, right into.the miserable attor-
ney’s ear, “Oi won’t ‘ shtand - much more of
this. Oi kem hTere-an’ asked ye a civil ques-
tion, an’ ye look at me with a murderous
expression,-an’, ye <won’L say anythin’, and
ye try to bully me. Are yez goin’ to explain
or are ye not?; Oi’lLflatten yer head if ye
say a\ wor-r-dp so- I will! < Oi’ll” But
just here the diminutive lawyer made a
strategic movement for the .door, and, rush-
ing past the enemy, did one long, compre-
hensive slide down the banisters. He has
never served a writ .on any but the smallest
kind of Irishman-since.
BENT’S TERROR.
In the daily papers and other forms of
popular iiction one is continually meeting
with the individual who has or had a fore-
boding of his oVra doom —the sailor, soldier,
jockey or gymnast who has a conviction that
he is going to meet his death on a certain
spot at a particular hour, under stipulated
conditions. In the book we find the prog-
nostication amply verified in the last chapter
but one; in the newspaper the death of the
individual recalls the astonishingly accurate
forGC&st.
Possibly (Curly Bent was affected by this
class of literature. Curly was boss of our
shift in the Bald Eagle, and he appeared to
be perfectly satisfied in his own mind that
he was going to be killed “one of these ddys ’
under a certain set of timber in the mam
drive, about fifty yards from the plat. There
was nothing about the timber or the ground
to suggest this unpleasant idea, and that
particular set did not differ from any other
set in the drive, but .Curly
clung to his conviction, and
refused to be comforted or
to give up in spite of reason
and argument.
He avoided the fatal set
as much as possible, and
blanched visibly every time
he passed between the logs.
He used to say that if he
were carried along the drive
in the pitch dark he could
find the dreaded spot by the
awful chill that struck to his
heart whenever he got near
it.
One night I saw him land
on the plat, dead white and
quaking like a man in an
ague fit.
“She is goin’ to get me to-
night, Tim!” he said to the
platman.
However, Curly continued
to live, and, as he refused to
throw up his job, his fore-
boding became a stock joke
below, and the dreaded set
was known as “Bent’s
Terror.”
In the course of time the
company decided to have the
trucking done by horse-
power, and two men a shift
were put on to excavate a
large chamber for stables,
the spot selected being exactly opposite
“Bent’s Terror.” The work had advanced con-
siderably without mishap until one afternoon
Curly, who had just come below, was stand-
ing in the chamber. He was surveying the
work done by the last shift, when, without
a crack or a hint of warning, about twenty
tons of stuff from over the drive and the
mouth of the chamber came down plump,
with a roar that brought the white-faced
men blundering and stumbling along the
drive wild with excitement.
The work of rescue was begun at once,
and Bent’s foreboding was recalled with awe
and deep respect. We found two men
crushed and the third blown back against
the wall, jambed in a space where he had
not room to move six inches one way or
another, but living, and without a scratch.
Bent died in his bed six years later of
rheumatic gout.
Silas Snell.
“Scientific temperance” is now part of the
official curriculum of Tasmanian State
schools. What is “scientific temperance”?
The writer remembers an Australian parson
who, at a mission feast of young folk after
a tea-fight, gave the audience some “scientific
temperance.” Holding an egg up in one
hand and a phial in another, the shepherd
spake like this: “This is an egg. This is
alcohol. Now, the white of egg is albumen.”
With this he cracked the egg, dropping the
contents into a glass and removing the yolk.
Everybody was interested, especially a re-
porter, sadly and most obtrusively drunk.
“This, then, is albumen. Now, the brain of
man is almost entirely composed of albu-
men. I intend to show you
what effect alcohol has on
albumen, and, therefore, on
the human brain.” “Ho,
ho,” hiccoughed the inebri-
ated reporter from just under
the platform. “Will our
friend there keep quiet,
please?” ( Pottrs some alcohol
on the white of egg, which
gets muddy, of course.)
“There, that’s the state of a
man’s brain when he has
taken one glass of spirits
and is feeling what lie calls
‘merry.’ ” Applause. “Bosh !”
from the illuminated scribe.
“Will our friend bear with
me?” ( Pours some more
spirit on the albumen, which
thickens.) “That’s the con-
dition of a man’s brain when
he wants to lend everybody
money.” “Good man!’ ejacu-
lated the excited reporter.
“Good man” says our friend.
“Well” ( Pours on some more
spirit, and albumen gets
more turbid), “that’s the
condition of the drinker’s
brain after three glasses,
when he wants to quarrel
with his best friend.” “Rot!”
from the now infuriated
press representative. “I’m
sorry if my illustration
annoys our friend; he evi-
dently knows something
about these things.” “Yah!”
from the reporter. ( Parson
pours on more spirit and
explains, uyith interruptions,
until he gets to the sixth
driblet, when the albumen is all found coagu-
lated.) “And that’s the condition of a man’s
brain,” screams the parson triumphantly,
“when he’s drunk six glasses and goes home
and kicks his wife and jumps on his child-
ren!” Sensation and cheering, the, wild re-
porter on his legs howling “I don’t mind
fair argumensh, hie! But shisli ish dam’
humbug, an’ you—hie—know* it! You know
it —know it—know it!” Parson (sarcas-
tically) : “Perhaps our friend here would
like to come up on the platform and debate
the subject. If so, and if he will keep quiet
till I’ve concluded my remarks, we shall.
I’m sure, all be pleased to give 1 ,
ing.” “Will yer?” says the reporter ea ? crl , J ;
“Oh yes.” “Itsher wazsher! and lie act
ally’kept still till the end of the Return-
Then he staggered up the side stepsi of -
platform. There was tolerable silence only
broken by laughter as he made a dmnk
bow, and then went to a l t was
where the “washing up of the tea-fight was
going on. “You’d better shin* a hymn ic
—insher meantime; I’ll be diec y,
said he, and disappeared. We sing a
hymn,” said the chairman ‘I thinkour
friend has gone to wash himself. Loil ‘
laughter at the humorous idea ) But the
reporter, evidently screwed up foi the occa
sion reappeared with a kettle m .h is hand
and another egg. And this was hish_ctn e.
“My de-ah bruzzqrs an’ shisteis. isii
hot water —hie. Shish ish an egg. (Breaks
it into a tumbler, and after some trouble
manages to scoop out the yolk.) vouve
SPEECHES FROM THE AUSTRALIAN DOCK.
STIPENDIARY (to gentleman behind the spikes on a charge
of righteous conduct) : “It won’t do for you to
plead that you did not know you were violating
the law. Ignorance of the law is no excuse for
any man.”
PRISONEE: “ That’s rather rough on me an you, amt
it, yer Washup?” [6/12/’90.]
heard all about sher human brain; also—
hie—hot water!” (He pours in a few drops
of hot loatei-, and the white of egg goes
turbid.) Then right on to the bitter end
of coagulation of albumen by heat, mimick-
ing the parson, till: “And shat’s sher shtate
.—hie—of the teetollersli brain after slnx
glasshes of hot water—hie—when he goesh
home to kick hish poor wife!”
AN OLD ROOM.
A room unswept and littered;
Spider-webs hang from the walls;
The air with all this dust decay-bittered;
In dust the ceiling falls.
Stains as of .blood on hearth and skirtings,
The 1 curtains torn to shreds ;
This is the room of dancings gone, and flirtings,
And passions worn to threads.
Upon that bed my bride of dreams, in languor,
Lay waiting for the groom.
My bride of dreams is dead! —no dusty
clangor
Of nuptial-bells vibrates the mourning room !
A mouse runs often in that leaden quiet,
And makes my flesh to start!
An old thought is the mouse that makes tne
riot.
The old room is—my heart!
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A REMEMBRANCE.
“A sorrow’s crown of sorrow is remembering hap-
pier things.”— Tennyson.
So — Here it was she sate and shed
Into my very soul her grandeur and
Her glory. One waft of perfume here recalls
Her smile, which now is this mad bigot s
creed.
Ah! Why should fancy’s lies beguile
The heart in which immortal fires of passion
Burn? Burn! Aye! And shall the living
Flames e’er turn to ashes cold and grey.'
Who but a fool of fools, once knowing
Her sweet influence, could look beyond
For any change, save that from love
To love still lovelier? And yet, erstwhile,
The very thought begot grim anguish on
this brow
So often cooled to peace by her sweet kisses.
The snowy gull sinks on the ocean’s bosom
With a hushed sob of joy, because therein
Its weary wings can find the cooling rest
That knows no thought save that of peace;
And here in this spot, hallowed to me
By memories of eld, and rushing breaths
That from the lips of love once fed the life
Of life’s immortal flowers, I sink
“ONE GOAL AND TWO BEHINDS.”
By George R. Ashton. [16/8/’90.]
Into the deep waives of this ocean tide,
So sweetly bitter with its buried worlds ol
hope , , ,
And wistful fond remembrances, that een
In this far day rush through my soul like
peals .
From out the great, grave organ, echoing
in their swell , , .
Along the aisle of memory’s cathedral.
So let me rest and press this last and
Only tribute that of her remains—Remem-
brance.
[1890.]
HERRERT C. SHAW


HARROW the PASTURES
WITH
ẅ
“Sunblade” Pasture
Renovating' Harrows
And Increase the Productive Capacity of Your Herd
HARROWED PASTURES carry more stQffk
and provide richer feed; stock droppings are
pulverised and spread; the soil is loosened and
aerated; space is created for available seed
and a denser sole is promoted in the pasture.
Moss is eradicated. Matted root growth is
broken up and fresh growth is stimulated.
PRIOR TO TOP DRESSING
HARROWING IS A NECESSITY.
“SUNBLADE” PASTURE RENOVATING HARROWS
2- Set has 78 Cutting Blades Width of Cut, 6 feet; Weight, 3cwt. 141 b.
3- Set has 102 Cutting Blades Width of Cut, 8 feet; We.ght, 4cwt. 71b.
The lines of cultivation are approximately 1 inch apart.
w
THE TRIPODS are coupled together with hinged fasteners of
crucible steel. These are easily detached from the tripods by
removing a cotter pin.
THE BLADES are made of hardened special tyne steel, and are
sharpened. They are pinned securely in the tripod, as illustrated,
projecting 4 inches on one side and 2 inches on the other. Thus
the harrows can be used for 4-inch cut on the one side or turned
over for 2-inch cut.
SPREADER BARS and DRAG WEIGHTS are attached at the rear.
This arrangement keeps the harrows well down to their work.
THE PULLING BAR is of hard seasoned timber, with pull rods and
link.
w
Sunshine Farm Implements, Reduced Prices
Farmers needing an implement or machine are requested to ask for a copy of our REDUCED PRICE LIST.
Prices of duplicate parts also reduced.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS :
H. V. McKay Massey Harris Pty., Ltd. Sunshine HuST Works, Sunshine.
The Blood of Dionysus
RANDOLPH BEDFORD’S
STORY OF HOW A SILVERFISH BECAME
HUMAN.
JOHN SINCLAIR, leaving the tram from
Circular Quay at King-street, toddled
down to the Street of Made and into
uookselleis Row. He walked on veiy tlnn
and uncertain legs; his new clothes of a
fashion thirty years old, coat fitting his bent
back as if he had been poured into it and
trousers almost skin-tight; the skin stretched
tightly over the bones of his face, the thin
hands like new parchment, the thin neck
slightly pouched ; clothes and man proclaim-
ing simplicity that was austere, and a thin
life, almost anmmie. He inhabited libraries,
and therefore people called him a bookworm;
but he wasn’t fat enough to be a worm, and
was really a silverfish. He had lived for
books ever since he had been old enough to
buy them; he had lived with books ever
since he had made money enough to give
himself unreservedly to his one affection;
and for the ten years preceding the date of
this visit to Booksellers’ Row lie had lived
in books. Practically all he ever knew of
life was the life in books ; on which meagre
and reflected knowledge of human beings
many men write other books. This is the
reason why most books are mere collections
of typographical marks on paper, treating
of men and women who never were on land
or sea, detailing conversations that never
Were by people who could not talk so and
live. Then once in a lifetime or so comes
a man who knows men and women and
writes his knowledge, and you have flesh and
blood and the breath of life instinct in the '
printed page.
Sinclair was about his usual monthly busi-
ness: to visit Pocock, the King of Book-
sellers (who was apt to be a very Shylock
Of Book-buyers) ; to be asked by Pocock to
sell his very fine library, deliverable after
death of the vendor; to raise the price a
little, in mere joy of bargaining; and then
to refuse to sell at any price.
Turning into the Street of Magic, Sinclair
dropped his walking-cane and stooped to
recover it. Immediately the street became
a sea, quiet but mountainous. Its waves
arose around Sinclair and seemed to menace
drowning him. H’e recovered the cane and
stood upright; but the street still moved
and billowed around him; the air-pressure
became tangible in those threatening waves;
lie felt that vision was leaving him, and turn-
ing north he slowly and falteringly entered
the lounge at Arthur’s. There he ordered the
oldest of old brandy, and he had not taken
alcohol for years; but this new vertigo made
him afraid. Seated, the dizziness passed, the
waves of that awfful sea subsided; he drank
the brandy and found that he now had suffi-
cient consciousness to tremble. Dismissing
bis past indisposition with disgust at his
own weakness, he stood up and the sea
returned- rolling around but never touching
him. He put a hand on the elevator enclosure
tc steady himself, and through a wave that
seemed to blind and drug him he heard a
woman's voice call his name. Ilis blurred
vision saw a comfortably proportioned
woman in black; even though her face
danced to his sight he knew that it was
handsome and that it was strangely familiar
—a face he had known when it was young
and he was middle-aged.
“You don’t remember me, Mr. Sinclair?
Mrs. York—l was Millie Davenport.”
The old memory was stronger than this
present in which lie struggled for sight and
consciousness. He remembered her more
clearly than he saw her now. Millie Daven-
port—a memory of himself at 41, and her-
self a big, healthy, laughing brunette of 22
who laughed at Sinclair and his books; and
then to take the sting out of it laughed
at herself and at the whole world. He
remembered the gracious personality of her—
remembered also that he had often regretted
since fhose days that she had only laughed
herself a little into his life to laugh her-
self completely out of it. And now she looked
like departing with the rest of the world
from his vision and consciousness that
seemed to permanently fail.
He heard his own voice saying: “I heard
you were married.”
“Mr. York died five years ago. I am an
old widow of thirty-five. I’m only lunching
here with a party, but my flat is in Mac-
quarie-street. I wish you’d call for oid
t’TTYIPQ* oolrp
“I will! ' I will!”' said Sinclair. “But at
present I feel very ill. To-morrow, perhaps.”
“Poor man, I’m sorry. You should get
advice at once. And there’s my card and
’phone. I have my little girl with me and
we’ll be glad to see you any time.”
The waves arose around him again; he
stammered good-bye and almost felt his way
to the street, finding himself saying, “It’s
fifteen years ago and I’m fifty-six; so she’s
only taken three years off her age. She’s
a truthful woman.” Mrs. York’s thought
was that Sinclair looked very ill and
neglected, and then she remembered that she
did not know whether or not he was mar-
ried. That made her think of him the more.
Meantime the man she thought of faltered
along, fighting the fear that he might fall
in the street and die like a horse heart-
broken by burdens. The thought that he
must do as she said and seek medical advice
immediately fought with the knowledge that,
while the seas of air threatened him less
than at the beginning of the seizure, he
now felt that, though he had set his mind
on walking straight ahead, he could not for-
bear a deviation to the right.
“The left hemisphere of the brain !” said
Sinclair. “How pretty Millie Davenport
was!”
He gripped himself with all his mind and
the deviation to the right dwindled to a mere
tendency. But when in experiment he
relaxed his will to walk direct, the inclina-
tion became almost a tangent. So he put
all his will into action again, though it was
almost physical pain; and so by turns
forcing himself out of the deviation and relax-
ing so that he went into it again, he came
at last to the consulting-rooms of the only
medical man he knew —one of the old-
fashioned sort of practitioner, with such
counsel as “Black draught and blue pill, don’t
sit in draughts, keep feet warm, and attend
to the bowels” as his stock of advice.
He looked at Sinclair’s tongue and said
“Ha”; he felt Sinclair’s pulse and said
“Hum” ; and he listened to Sinclair’s heart
and said nothing, maybe because he was
polite and wouldn’t interrupt even a heart;
and then he tested the other principals of
Sinclair’s internal economy and wrote a pre-
scription. At long last he heard Sinclair’s
experience of the morning and saw for him-
self, as Sinclair stood up, a return of the
dizziness that meant swaying sufficiently to
be visible. He was very serious as Sinclair
told him of the waves in the air, the loss of
vision and the deviation to the right. What
was Mr. Sinclair’s diet? And Mr. Sinclair
told a tale of dust and ashes in the mouth—
porridge and oatcake, patent sawdust foods,
toasted bread, bread and butter, bread-and-
butter puddings, fruits and tea. All these
the medical man agreed could not fire the
blood of the patient to the point of explo-
sion ; “yet the vertigo, the temporary loss of
vision, the involuntary deviation —yes, ha,
hum! Distinctly apoplectic, Mr. Sinclair —
distinctly. Yes! Slight not be for a long
time, but distinctly a warning—distinctly.
Yes! Better put affairs in order —distinctly
wise—distinctly.”
Sinclair left the consulting-rooms, dulled
almost out of sensation, but feeling that he
was under sentence of death, with the day of
execution mercifully unfixed but yet inevit-
able ; which, when you come to think of it,
is the condition of all things born of
woman.
The new knowledge so filled his brain that
the waves of clamorous air subsided about
him and the tendency to deviation slept.
With the new idea of early annihilation con-
trolling him, he went down King-street and
into Booksellers’ Row, but with a new inten-
tion. His new knowledge lent tragedy to las
face; and Pocock, observing it, and being
kindhearted outside of business, was very
sympathetic.
“My dear chap,” he said, “have you been
ill?”
“No,” replied Sinclair, “but I am going
to be ill. Seriously ill.”
“Don’t say that; wait till it comes.”
“I mustn't do that. It will come so
quickly that I won’t have time to think.
Yes, I’ve had advice—apoplexy, he thinks.
Don’t notice me if I break off—l forget
words sometimes.”
“But how long has this been going on?”
“Only to-day.”
“But you’ll be all right to-morrow.”
“No, it’s too serious for that. And I
thought I’d make a deal with you about —
about the library.”
“Not till you’re better. Let’s see —it’s
no use asking you to have a drink.”
“I had some brandy an hour ago.”
“Why, you’re getting on. You’ll be paint-
ing the town red next week.”
“All the paint I’ll use will be black,” said
Sinclair,, smiling wanly and joking with pain.
“No, it’s serious; and if you’ll talk prices
I won’t struggle as I used to.”
“I’ll not talk business now,” replied
Pocock firmly. “Let’s go out somewhere and
brighten up. It’s no use asking you to
lunch.”
“Isn’t it? All my carefulness has brought
me to the end of the road. What does it
matter what I do?”
“That’s the spirit,” said Pocock. rising
and seizing his hat. “We’ll get the best
lunch in town.”
“I couldn’t eat it.”
“We’ll try—over we go to Nelson’s.”
* * * *
Mr. Sinclair had enjoyed his slice of melon,
toyed with the fish and eaten quite four
ounces of thick underdone fillet steak, and
he sipped half a glass of Burgundy. Then
he waited for the Nemesis of riotous living
to strike him down to that threatening sea
of the morning; but no such stroke came. He
ate another four ounces of the steak and a
big floury potato boiled in the jacket, and,
with the air of a man venturing on a cup of
cyanide, he looked at the sunlight striking the
blood of Dionysus in the glass, admired the
ruby beauty of the wine—and drained the
glass of Burgundy. Then he waited for
death; and the wine ran through his veins
and sang of the sunlight—and nothing else
happened.
But the false security did not fool him;
he had always despised the intelligence that
can chew its wishes and spit comfortable
lies; and he proceeded with the negotiations
for the sale of the library. The lunch had
made him a good seller, and sympathy made
Pocock a good buyer, and they made the
deal; library to be removed after Sinclair’s
death and the money to be paid to Sinclair’s
executors.
That settled, they protracted the luncheon
comfortably, and the condemned man had his
coffee and Benedictine, and smoked a mild
cigar; so that Pocock did not leave him for
Booksellers’ Row until after three o’clock.
Sinclair walked down the Street of Magic
alone; sorry that he had sold and glad
when the street again ran around him and
the waves of air arose. It was but momen-
tary, however, and Sinclair, wondering at
himself, bought another cigar and resumed
his walk, smoking.
Suddenly he stopped before a theatre and
realised that the day was Wednesday and
the theatre open for a matinee. It was a
new world for him, this world that was not
of books and craved for histrionic laughter
or tears as for food ; Sinclair examined this
new world, admitted its existence and
passed on.
He stopped before a picture show and
found another new world—children excitedly
entering this daily church of theirs, and the
spruiker inviting all men to “enter upon the
inside and see Norma Pish in nine reels.”
If sounded like Scotch dancing to Mr. Sin-
clair, but the invitation to “enter upon the


Backach
—that’s KIDNEY TROUBLE
SO IS YOUR
RHEUMATISM
WHY THIS REMEDY
MUST BENEFIT YOU
Rheumatism and Backache are the most
serious of all health troubles. Starting with
twitching of the muscles, stiffness in the
joints, pains in the back, the trouble gradually
goes on until many are badly crippled and
cannot go about their daily work. Then,
too, the excess of poisonous acids in the
blood has a serious weakening effect on the
heart.
If you are tortured by the daily misery of
rheumatic pains, chronic pain at night-time
when trying to rest, pain when going about
your work or pleasure, if you find limbs and
joints swollen, if your blood is being poisoned
with excess of uric acid, here is a doctor-
recommended remedy that one-time suffeiers
say is “ wonderful ” in the way it quickly
ends chronic pain. De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills are a sure, safe and certain
remedy for all rheumatic conditions or any
body or joint pains arising from Kithiey
Trouble. A short course of De Witt s
will quickly rid you of your pain and bring
you back youthful vigour and vitality, and,
remember, you purchase your supply on
satisfaction or money-back conditions. Every
chemist stocks De Witt’s Kidney and Blad-
der Pills at 3/6. Get your supply to-day.
It will be the best investment you will ever
make. The young and the oldest can take
De Witt’s Pills with confidence. No danger-
ous drugs, but a scientific preparation that
will do you good from the first dose. Get
* De Witt’s ” and get health.
' I
OVER FORTY YEARS OF SUCCESSFUL RESULTS
For over 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have been on
sale all over the world. Everywhere the success of these wonderful
Pills is being consolidated daily. Thousands and thousands—-a never-
ending stream—of letters testifying to the efficacy of De Witts Puls
are pouring in from one-time sufferers who have become convinced
that there is no finer remedy. That is why you, too, should give
“ De Witt’s ” a trial now.
U II i 1 j ilJj iJ// //
DeWITTS
DJaS
OUR GUARANTEE.
Every box of De itt s Pills
sold bears this definite guar-
antee that twenty-four hours
after the first dose you will see
results. If this is not so, re-
turn to the proprietors the
partly-used bottle and your
money will be refunded in full.
De Witt’s Pills are invalu-
able in cases of :
RHEUMATASM, LUMBAGO
BACKACHE, SCIATICA
PAINS IN THE JOINTS
and all forms of KIONEY
and BLADDER TROUBLE
inside” was polite enough, and the condemned
man suddenly threw away his cigar and
bought a ticket and entered. A nice girl
bearing an electric torch took Mr. Sinclair
nicely by the hand and led him through the
gloom to a good seat, and left him. just as
Mr. Sinclair was beginning to like her. And
then he forgot her in wonder, and when his
wonder was dulled he began to laugh.
After that he kept on laughing. All the
banalities of the screen “comedy” were new
to him: fat comedians and thin comedians
who ran away from each other and bom-
barded each other with pies and eggs and
dough; all the alleged comedy stunts which
make true humor grieve belonged to Mr. Sin-
clair that day. He saw the show twice over,
and when he came out night was falling on
the city, and Mr. Sinclair thought of the
lunch that day, and decided on dinner. He
was too late to return the hospitality of
Mr. Pocock; so he went to the Street of
Magic to look for a companion, and found
him almost immediately—an impossible man,
Mr. Sinclair had always thought until now,
a poor little lawyer’s clerk who at fifty was
where he had been at thirty for money or
position. Him Mr. Sinclair commandeered,
taking him to dinner despite his self-con-
sciousness which made him almost shout of
his unwo'rthiness, filled the guest with good
food and drink, while eating still with the
temperance of his habit.
At parting Sinclair, feeling something of
the legendary Haroun Alraschid, forced
money on his apologetic guest, and left him
blessing the name of Sinclair.
Sinclair himself walked slowly to his ferry,
and found new beauty in the harbor water
showing as mobile silver under the moon.
From the boat he climbed the steep ascent
of Mosman and stopped half-way to rest
himself, and looked back upon a finer scene
than John in Patmo's ever saw. It was too
beautiful to leave, this new world he had
lived in with unseeing eyes of a fool; yet
leave it he must. The dizziness returned
as he resumed the ascent, and told him again
of doom.
But he slept peacefully, and next day
congratulated himself on the wise deter-
mination to take all he could of life while
yet opportunity remained. He looked at
his library as usual, but on,ly in the mass,
and departed to the city before noon; called
for Pocock and lunched him and wined and
cigared him, arranged to personally cata-
logue his library to date; and when Pocock
left him found again the sense of the execu-
tion postponed, but the duration of the post-
ponement unannounced.
To this mental condition the thought of
Mrs. York and her invitation came as a
relief. He waited a respectable delay after
lunch, and at four o’clock he rang the bell
at Mrs. York’s flat. While waiting for admis-
sion the vertigo came again, so that when
the maid led the way to the reception she
looked curiously at Sinclair and suspected
him of holding more alcohol than was good
for him, his faltering gait and the new flush
in his pale face being her evidence.
But Mrs. York had no such thought; and
Sinclair’s life contradicted it, anyhow. Still
she treated him as a man not quite well,
fussed over him until she had him in the
easiest chair, and made it even easier, with
pillows enough fox* an invalid. Mrs. York's
daughter—a graceful slip of the size drapers
describe as “maids”—came in and proved
herself as frankly cheerful as she was pretty,
and in half an hour withdrew, leaving the
two old friends to talk of old times —an inti-
mate pastime, occasionally dangerous.
So intimate the conversation became at
last that the widow, leaning closer to Sin-
clair', and suddenly finding herself so, said
between a laugh and a blush:
“More than vis-a-vis.”
“Practically tete-a-tete” replied Mr. Sin-
clair, and made it. almost literal.
“Now tell me about yourself,” said Mrs.
York, leading the man back to more solid
ground, but keeping herself close enough to
the quicksands to fall in again.
Sinclaii- told, to the first good listener he
had ever known, the first who had ever found
him interesting, of his life among his books,
and’ finally of the death sentence passed yes-
terday, with a clever imitation of the por-
tentous doctor’s manner, which imitation
amused Mrs. York, and that flattered Sin-
clair. But when he repeated the verdict
sympathetic tears came to her eyes and then
indignant disbelief. She referred disrespect-
fully to the Judge who had pronounced sen-
tence, and said that “Hum! Ha !” was an
old fool. But Sinclair shook his head calmly
and told her of the recurrence of the warn-
ings, portents not to be disregarded, and the
lady accepted it, knowing that the wise
woman’s way is to apparently believe and
secretly disprove.
“If it is so,” she said, “at least let us
see you often, while it is possible.”
“If you’ll let me come along,” replied Sin-
claii-, “it will make me happy. Sitting here
with you and talking with that charming
girl of yours has just told me of all I’ve
missed.”
“You shall come along whenever you like. ’
“And perhaps you and the little lady will
go for a drive ; I’ll —I’ll get a car and we’ll
go out for the day There, my dear lady
—just as I stood up the dizziness struck me
again. I can scarcely see you. Just a
moment; it lasts only that long.”
She was about to advise him to seek other
advice, but thought immediately that it might
corroborate “Old Hum Ha,” and discreetly
left the suggestion unspoken.
From that day Mr. Sinclair had the time
of his life. Mrs. York and the daughter
helped him with the cataloguing of the
library ; they fed him and cosseted him and
petted him until the flush in Sinclair’s cheek
became permanent. These women must help
something; and if they can’t find anything
helpless enough to be helped, they make or
imagine it helpless so that they may help it.
Men can live alone, but not women. If they
can get neither husband nor child to coddle
they adopt cats or parrots or prohibition or
politics, and in any of these cases their
methods are the same.
So that with all this quiet social whirl
and the coddling and cosseting, Mr. Sinclair
one day told the widow that lie had not had
an attack of dizziness for a week; and cun-
ning Mrs. York seized the opportunity and
packed him off to a specialist.
This was not a man like ‘‘Hum Ha,” who
accepted the patient’s account of his symp-
toms as confirmation strong as proofs of
Holy Writ, or even as incontrovertible as
a balance-sheet. He sounded Sinclair with
everything but the deep-sea lead—tested him
from head to toenail, wrapped something
that looked like a deflated car-tyre around
Sinclair’s arm and pumped air into it to
ascertain Sinclair’s blood pressure; and
finally diagnosed the case as that of a man
who had been slowly dying of malnutrition,
inanition and lack of life-interest, but who
had been taken in time and given a new lease
of life by the agency of fillet steak under-
done and the blood of Dionysus in a bottle
of Burgundy. The specialist gave him a
prescription, told him to consult an oculist,
and dismissed Mr. Sinclair with the new
flush on his cheek a little deeper in tone.
* * * *
“Well,” said Pocock, “you’re looking good
to me. Is the cataloguing finished?”
“N-no,” replied Sinclair ; “there’ll be plenty
of time.”
He was smoking, and his actions were as
debonair as his words.
“Plenty of time? I thought you—you
were in a hurry to get it done?”
“Well, no,” said Sinclair. “I’ve seen a
specialist. My own man’s diagnosis was
wrong. It wasn’t too much blood; it was
that I hadn’t enough. I’m stronger now.”
“That alters our agreement then?”
“N-no. It needn’t. I’m thinking about
travelling a bit.' Seeing Australia a bit —a
good lot, in fact. I won’t want a library so
much. I’ve —I’ve bought a car.”
“I see you’ve also bought a pipe,” said
Pocock dryly. “For a bookworm you’re
going it. Anything else?”
“Yes. The specialist’s prescription in-
cluded —er —marriage.”
“Good luck! Will you come to lunch?”
“Sorry. I have to meet Mrs. York and
my—er —stepdaughter-elect.”
Pocock laughed and watched him go, the
silverfish escaped fi;pm his books and changed
to human by the sunlight and the wine.
Cornish Coast.
Old Bill Trelawny’s laid away among the
graveyard stones,
Where all day long the buzzards wheel, and
seagulls whine and mew ;
And round him lie his old sea-mates, each one
with salt-picked bones,
Big Pete of Looe, and Limping Jack, and
one-armed Killigrew....
Through sunny days they sorted out their
tarred old fishing-lines,
And heard the husky huers cry the pil-
chards in the bay,
And lounged beside the Blue Sloop Inn, and
read the weather signs,
And knew that, though the sea could give,
it still could take away.
“For who would keep the graveyards full,”
whispers the Cornish sea,
“If it were not for my grey mouth, if it were
not for me?
Old men, bold men, I’ve snared them through
the years—
Irish saints, and sailors, and Spanish bucca-
neers !”
Old Bill Trelawny’s drowned and gone, his
fishing days are done;
No more he’ll feel the Thistle Flower leap
up to meet the tide; ,
But Black Trelawny wears his boots, a
swarthy six-foot son, *
In whose dark look the roving gleams o
strange sea-fancies hide.
Nor biting wind nor drenching spray call
turn him from his goal,
When once the wise white gulls have
glimpsed the secret silver shoal.
The sea has set her bitter seal on Black
Trelawny’s face;
His eyes, as dark as Spaniard s eyes, pierce
through the grey sea-mist I .
His feet, that stumble out of tune m street
and market-place, .
Ring joyously along, the stones tliat suig-
ing tides have kissed. . .
“The plain old sea, my father s sea, is good
enough for me,” ,
Says Black Trelawny as lie takes ins
children on his knee.
“But who would keep the graveyards full,
whimpers the Cornish sea,
“If it were not for my grey mouth, it it
were not for me? , . , „
King’s son, and fisher’s son, and pirates aflei
Smugglers and admirals, my arms have
caught them in.”
Young Black Trelawny’s hour Will come,
beneath the watery stars,
Some grey-waslied dawn the fislier-folk will
huddle on the shore,
And mutter in their beards, and point to
floating ribs and spars,
And wipe iheir eyes for one who 11 haul
his heavy nets no more.
But Black Trelawny s sons will go, with
grim unsmiling lips, ...
And battle blustering winters through, witu
other fishing-ships.
“For who would keep the graveyards full,”
thunders the Cornish sea,
“If it were not for my grey mouth, if it were
not for me? . , , ,
Old men, and young men with manhood
. scarcely won—
I’ll take them, I’ll break them—yea, eveiy
mother’s son 1”
Old Bill Trelawny’s laid away among the
graveyard stones, .
Where all day long the buzzards wheel, and
seagulls whine and mew;
And round him lie liis old sea-mates, eacu
one with salt-picked bones, _■
Big Pete of Looe, and Limping Jack, and
one-armed Killigrew • • • • .
The sea-pink clouds the tufted grass, the
clover spins a lace, .
The daisy presses thick upon the sleeping
sea-kissed ones.
But still there’s room among the stones—but
still there's left a place!
Make haste and lie you here at home, oh
Black Trelawny’s sons!
ENGLAND.
MYRA MONRIS


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of- the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 .per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over _95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
"THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, CL
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CHUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISDAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest.informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any mt the World’s Deadline
Advertising Agencies.
Che mercury
—by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
'—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
tbe combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
Holds the interest arid confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Cln Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
m Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER ” may
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Mess-rs. Gordon & Gotch s price lsd.
be
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head! Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
■a it„a N.S.W. Representative:
”• THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
“The Week"
hhs special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture In the Garden
The Orchard The Grazier
The Piggery Sugar Industry
Poultry Nature Notes
Dairying
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily —l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth., It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern j»
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
_
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
tp the MANAGER,, who will quote you price for the original.
LIFE INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument ever
devised by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
A MUTUAL institution where the whole of the available surplus
is divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office: F. T. BRIDGES,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney. General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country towns, and field representatives in all Districts.
w
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
P oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
y effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
'of publication. It is published in Launceston,
s of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information , copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner/’ “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
v Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National IBank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Doug;) n,
Kenibla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney,
Thousands subscribe to Australia’s Great
Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered
“The Bulletin’* to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 BB, G.P.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £. .
NAME :
ADDRESS .
RATES: Australia—12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
»
o
mV
0°
&
*&*>*


ŵ
You can always be sure about Red Union
. . . the colour is your protection . . .
it identifies your purchase . . . you SEE
and KNOW what you pay for.
Union is the only spirit branded in every
drop . . . ask for it by name . . . and
KNOW by the colour that you are filling
with a true Super Spirit . . . one that is
rigidly protected from the refinery to
your car.
Union ignites easily even in the coldest
weather ... it burns cleanly and com-
pletely. Use Union always . . . mileage
is increased... greater power is developed
. . . and there is remarkable smoothness
at all speeds.
ẁ
1
c
or
■ s
mm '
ism
A**"
