

BLACK & WHITE
; v.; '
m
MB
af
■lill
■I
|P|#fcv
BM
if-ifi
111®
«
■ ■ I-’
MMs
iff:
•; ■
*
S-
Hi
;■•: ■;■.■•• ;a
a
■
a
...
■
■I
mm
i
an
■lllv
f ': ■
aa
1
■aa-a
.a.'
'"iff-
■
i
mm.
;
-a
. i
m
.. i..-
: f ■■
Id
f.;.;
.
■a a a
a>a
SCOTCH WHISKY
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
The Bulletin
IfMrfOO fi.S
Vol. 52,—N0. 2680.
Wednesday, June 24, 1931*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
y' now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post' free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing,
This Book FREE to YOU!
— SEND THIS COUPON —— _
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit ns
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ' * w
My Name
My Address
S.B. 231
x
Oft thz first sign, ofSomlßroai- TAKE
HUDSONS
EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES
The wonderful efficiency of Hud-
son’s Eumenthol Jujubes, for all
affections of the throat, chest and
lungs, has been endorsed by the
medical profession for over 40
years. Always keep a tin handy—
there is no better remedy for young
, and old.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
jr
T>
r>
*5?
How Bright and Full of Energy
This Boy Looks!
He Keeps His Face and Hands
Clean and Healthy with
Cuticura Soap
Teach children early in life to
use Cnticura Soap every day
and Cutfeura Ointment for
any rashes or irritations. Sham-
poos with Cutfeura Soap keep
the hair healthy and thick.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
A ddress: R. Town s & Co., Sydney, N. S ,W.
o
y
B
E
t
N
a
res
u
f
rst
nd
G
ma
om
Nature is a stern tasfcmistress if
you disregard her. The first
command is to keep a clean
open system so that disease cannot get
a foothold. Constipation is a deadly
menace. Reasonable exercise and the
help of Figsen at the slightest sign of
constipation will keep your system
working cleanly and well. Figsen, the
gentle laxative, is a splendid precau-
tion against eliminative troubles, does
not purge or gripe nor does it create
the “medicine habit.” No unpleasant
after effects. Equally effective for
adults and children. Pleasant to take
and absolutely effective.
FIGSEN
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail-
ment . . .
Sold only by
Chemists
yai
for
l-J
4
m
HOTEL
IETRDPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two IVllnutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFff from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander.” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
Gnethird of Queensland’s
Entire Ponulation.
* & ij:
In Greater Brisbane
®he Brisbane Courier*
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
# * *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marlcet, from:
Che Brisbane Courier*
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Build'ng, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
FlSet-street.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Alleluia! Pm a Pisces!
Those ribald persons who, in piping down
the valleys wild, keep a good eye skinned
for unconscious humor should weep with
joy to hear' of The Bowl of -Heaven, by
Evangeline Adams (Harper; ss. net). The
author is an astrologer of the City of
Dreadful Skite, and appears to employ a
staff of secretaries; and to her offices
(these plurals are bewildering) _ “come
banker, editor, artist, opera singer—leaders
of all walks of life from the highest to the
most lowly,” seeking the latest dinkum oil
as gushed through her intellect by the stars.
Personally, I am intensely moved to have
Evangeline’s word for it that those born in
that part of the year which I saw fit to
honor with my own birth are likely to do
especially well with waterways, steamship
companies and liquids, one, at least, of
which has my whole-hearted support, though
I find it a bit of a setback to learn that
we are subject to colds and abdominal dis-
orders. Still, had I been unwise enough
to get bom a month or two earlier I would
have suffered from gout, rheumatism, weak
ankles, sprains and dislocations. I might
also have been, like Tullulah Bankhead,
daughter of the late Senator Bankhead, of
Alabama, “a born actress and an irrespon-
sible child,” and I shouldn’t have cared for
that. I am also grateful that I do not
belong to the Libra group, for then I would
have run the risk of being either an Oscar
Wilde or a Judge, and, though strong physi-
cally, would have had to guard my kidneys
and avoid violent exercises which tend to
strain the back. Happy man, I am a Pisces;
and we Pisces men make good husbands.
If we do slip we may perhaps get .away
with it by explaining that our Moon was
afflicted, like that of an eminent cardinal:
The Cardinal’s horoscope startled me at first; it
was so much like Houdini’s The Cardinal’s Moon
was afflicted, showing that his happiness would not
come through association with women.
The Cardinal was not the only one in
Evangeline’s experience to have an unsatis-
factory Moon. There was Sir Franklin
Simmons, “the celebrated sculptor,” who
proposed marriage ter her. Evangeline, how-
ever saw «
that his Moon, governing his relations with women,
was badly afflicted, a condition which suggested that
our relationship would probably end either in my
death or my unfaithfulness.
Careful woman, she did not marry Sir
Franklin, wherein she differed from one
whom she warned not to marry a young
doctor.
She did marry. Within a year that young doctor
was confined in a private sanitarium, suffering from
paresis. To-day- he is a maniac—just a maniac!
Spare me, O Pisces, from anvthing like
that!
Huxley’s Verse
That same brand of humor, whose proper
name is bathos, is present, though less glori-
ously, in The Cicadas and Other Poems, by
Aldous Huxley (Chatto and Windus; ss.
net). There is just enough of it to enliven
an otherwise dull procession. The volume
is the first unlimited publication in verse
issued by Huxley since Leda in 1920, and
poetically he is still in 1920. He is an
amateurish poet, remarkably so in view of
his undoubted position as a proseswriter;
though the prose-writer who thinks he can
write verse, like the clown who wants to
play Hamlet, is the rule rather than the
exception. One of the most obvious brands
of Huxley’s amateurishness is his penchant
for “doing” poems on given topics. He is the
Spring Poet not many flights removed. In
another age, when it was not so unfashion-
able to despise such an Occupation, he might
have been a Laureate, writing in Ins own
quaint fashion about royal babies and
dowager duchesses’ birthdays, and winning
immortality for hjmself in The Stuffed
Owl. Even as it is the compilers of that
Tussaud’s gallery of horrors must water
at the mouth over little things like
And Ckesar on a piebald horse,
or
Slides down the flank of Mars and takes
Prom Virtue’s rump a dizzier twist,
or
Crabs in their shells, because they cannot play
Don Juan on the flageolet, are safe,
while poetasters the \Vorld over may honor-
ably sue for infringement of copyright on
the strength of such a line as
Like stars in a delirious sky.
Of Goya’s “A Highway Robbery” Huxley
remarks:—
It is a scene of murder—elegant, is it not?
Maybe it is; but Huxley fails as a poet,
even as a poet of occasions, in not being
aware that it is
necessary for verse,
if it would be
poetry, to say
something on its
own account, and
not merely repeat
what such eminent artists as Goya and the
Unknown have already said in their
mediums a thousand times better.
A Trumpeted Poet
One thing about Huxley, he has the good
sense to stand on his own ground. Alan
Porter’s The Signature of Pain (Cobden-
Sanderson; Roycroft; Bs.) is introduced by
a fanfare of trumpets, blown, moderately
out of tune, by five other versifiers, includ-
ing Edmund Blunden. It is a novel idea
to introduce a poet with such a blow, and
one which most readers will probably .hope
never to see repeated, involving, as it does
here, the blowing of one of the pieces into
the shape of-an hour-glass, a literary conceit
made ridiculous for ever by the benefactor
who similarly treated the tail of a mouse.
Porter’s work needs no such undergraduate
adornments. His title-piece alone has more
of what a downright friend of mine calls
the guts of poetry in its first four lines
than I, at least, can extract from the whole
of Huxley :
Open the breast:
Heart, physical heart, that mourns in tremors, take
it.
Swear to discover the small drop of fire
That makes the body bitter.
Porter is yet far from being the big poet
that the trumpet-blowers imply; but at
least he writes poetry, not prose with an
artificial rhythm injected into it.
Tomlinson’s Prose
Being a collection of essays and sketches.
H. M. Tomlinson’s Out of Soundings
(Heinemann; 6s. net) is not to be com-
pared with a book like All Our Yesterdays,
the big effect of which derives from welded
purpose and continuity; but it stands up
very well to comparison with other collec-
tions of his more sketchy work, and it in-
cludes a few gems. The publishers, in the
blurb, plunk for “The Turn of the Tide,’
and certainly it is a beautiful essay, though
Tomlinson might have told us exactly where
he found the sea thus taking the place of
the land. He makes it as haunting to a)
least one reader as if the reader and no ;
he had experienced it, and it is rather tan
talising to have had such an experience a.nc’
not be able to recall where. Without
detracting in any way from the merit ot !
that piece, my preference goes to “A Brown j
Owl,” an exquisite blending of Tomlinson’s
own kinds of humor, thought and pathos.
Another good one, the “Sea-dogs,” suffers
from pernicketty argufying against the
applying of the term to sailors like Drake.
The term, because it does not image dogs
but sea-dogs, is quite good. Its original
application need not have been inspired by
a hairy navigator, any more than its pre-
sent usage implies one. Like most good
metaphor, it is concerned with the spirit
and not the physical aspect of things. Some
of the qualities which it suggests are saga-
city, determination, grit .and wariness, which
Tomlinson, if he had observed dogs half:
as well as he did the bi’own owl, would
recognise as belonging alike to the hairiest
of dogs and the most physically-polished of
good navigators. One other of his pieces
should be mentioned, his “A Footnote on
the War Books,” which has the discrimina-
tion to be expected of the author of All
Our Yesterdays, itself one of the best of ;
them. And yet one other might be men-
tioned, “Beauty and the Beast,” a com-
parison of Marie Lloyd and the only talkie
he has seen. It falls as manna to one who.
like himself, is left cold by the loud afflic-
tion.
Red Page.
The “Herald” Book
A Century of Australian Journalism, pub-
lished by the “Sydney Morning Herald” at
355., chronicles the history of that * news-
paper and a good deal more. As books go,
it is gigantic. The Courtesan in Literature
and Life is a mere lightweight to it, and
the .average novel nothing more than a
bantam.
But there is more than size and capital pro-
duction in the big volume. To anyone inter-
ested in journalism, it is a fascinating story
of a newspaper’s growth and evolution over
a century. The “Sydney Herald,” the
weekly from which what is to-day one of
the greatest dailies in the world evolved,
was started on April 18, 1831, because Ward
Stephens, a clerk, and William McGarvie.
a bookseller, had sent to England for a
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


USE OUR
D. P. S.
(Deposit Purchase
System).
First select the goods
you require; then leave
a. deposit on them,
arrange for the pay-
ment of balance in
suitable instalments,
and, after final pay-
ment, the purchase is
yours. You pay no
extra.
_ “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING-” —The Conscience of Business.
Anthony
Horderns'
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Post Orders
Although you may be
living many miles from
Sydney you are able
to buy the same goods
at exactly the same
prices that Sydney
people are paying.
Anthony Horderns’
Mail Order section
guarantees you satis-
faction. Order by
mail from Anthony
Horderns’. Or ’phone
M 2401 day or night.
A MANUFACTURER'S COMPLETE STOCK/
DOWN QUILTS
Selling' at
an Amazing'
Reduction of
68
IN
THE
£
Seldom in our long history of value leadership have we offered such amazing value! These
Down Quilts were made by one of Australia’s leading manufacturers, and we offer them at a
reduction of 6/8 in the £.
In these Quilts you will recognise, as we did, the excellent qualities, the artistic colorings and the
smart styles. . . .all of which will convince you of their worth. Be a prompt buyer. They
are selling rapidly!
mm
M
IS*
K
.
|P|j
£% 11 1
*s•><&*
•.v.nm • v • ‘ : r -••>>MiVTA : afi !l ftPP >^SFri^^^^f: ; : * : '-S‘
m
m
m
Si
km
mmm
a *
m
m
1
*
<3
1
<?.
mt
rv/sx
K
a
m
»
tr* <
I
#m<
m
3$
pi
30/- S.B. Down Quilts
Figured Cambric
Down Quilts, with
plain Sateen panel and
border. In assorted designs and color-
ings, as illustrated. Size 6ft. x 4ft.
Price . 30/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Purchase Price 19/11
£8/6/6 Satin Down Quilts
110/9
Beautiful figured Satin
Down Quilts, with
smart strapped Satin
panel. Rose or Saxe colorings. Size
6ft. x 5ft. Price £8/6/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Purchase Price £5/10/9
47/- D.B. Down Quilts
Superior Feather Down
Quilts. One Satin panel.
Rose and Blue colorings.
Pretty patterns. Size 6ft. x 5ft. 47/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Purchase Price 31/4
31/4
53/6 S.B. Down Quilts
35/8
Figured Sateen, with wide
plain Sateen panel. Filled
with j superior Down.
Rose and Blue colorings. Size 6ft. x 4ft.
Price 53/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Purchase Price 35/8
58/6 D.B.
Down Quilts
38/11
45 only. Double Bed
Down Quilts. High-
grade Floral Sateen
Quilts. Filled with superior Down. Rose,
Blue and Black colorings. Size 6ft. x sft.
As illustrated. Price 58/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Purchase Price 38/11
69/6 Down
Quilts, at
46/4
57 only. Floral Sateen
Down Quilts, with wide
single plain panel, or
single panel with strapping. Colors: Rose,
Blue, also Black. Size 6ft. x sft. Price, 69/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Purchase Price 46/4
(Down Quilts, First Floor. We pay carriage .)
98/6 Down Quilts, now
65/8
39 only. High-grade
Down Quilts. Figured
Sateen, Satin border, gof-
fered Satin panel. Small Satin centre.
A very attractive Quilt, with good-quality
Down. Colorings: Rose, Blue, also Black.
Size 6ft x sft. Price 98/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Purchase Price 65/8
13/6 Cot
Down Quilts
8/11
Cot Down Quilts of
Figured Cambric, with
plain Sateen panel and
border. Rose and Blue colorings. Size
3ft. x 2ft. Price 13/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Purchase Price 8/11
14/6 Cot Down Quilts
Figured Sateen, with plain
Sateen panel and border. Rose
and Blue colorings. Size
3ft. x 2ft. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Purchase Price 9/8
9/8
.... 14/6
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


•SW.. |
i
■ x ■ >'
Plli
r/x
/ / xtx
4«o^ i !T
y*x-^rs?~
Ilffi
«<**£
m
ssss
SJSSJ
/ /
1
FW-'.
>\
/
Ask any PLUME user!
Split-second starting
Park your car in the bleakest
spot; let Antarctic Sou 5 west-
erlies chill it with an iceberg’s
breath —then touch the starter
and you’ll start • • . in split-
seconds!
You can do it on Plume, the
split-second starting spirit.
Plume ensures instant ignition
of the fuel charge, no matter
how cold the weather may be.
Your first start on Plume will
convince you!
The exceptional fluidity of
Mobiloil
at low temperatures ensures
a ready response of the
engine to the self-starter,
and a split-second start with
Plume.
•m
t* *
A'l'\
Mi
0 *>
&
U ( > u *y
'..i, i
IN VINTEP—
PLUME
Split-Second Starting
iP\G
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTV. LTD


Sale of Technical Books
An opportunity for Tradesmen, Engineers and Students to secure
valuable Technical books at very low Cost. Early application for
copies of books listed is advisable, only single copies in many
instances being avaliable. Prices quoted are post free.
Principles of Radiotelegraphy, by Jansky, 15/-, Reduced to 3/7 ; The Cinematograph and Natural
Science, by Donaldson, 3/6, Red. to 1/4; Self-propelled Vehicles —A Practical Treatise, by Ilemans,
10/-, Red. to 5/8 ; Elements of Agriculture, by Fream, 5/-, Red, to 3/-; Refrigerating Machines,
Compression, Absorption, by Voorhees, 12/-, Red. to 2/9; Models to Make, 5/-, Red. to 3/-;
Concrete, by Sutcliffe, 13/6, Red. to 6/6 ; Patternmaking Specially for Apprentices, by Horner,
5/6, Red. to 2/3 ; Practical Mechanics, by Wells, 6/6, Red. to 2/4 ; Architectural Hygiene or Sanitary
Science as Applied to Buildings, by Fletcher, 11/6, Red. to 6/4 ; The Student’s Illustrated Guide
to Practical Draughting, by Pemberton, 2/9; Gasoline Automobiles, by Moyer, 15/-, Red. to 6/4;
Putnam’s Ready Speechmaker, 12/-, Red. to 2/11; The By-products of Coal-gas Manufacture, by-
Lange, 8/6, Red. to 2/10; How to Run an Automobile, by Page, 5/-, Red. to 2/3 ; Raphia and
Reed Weaving, including also Cardboard and Paper Construction, by Knapp, 6/-, Red. to 2/10 ;
Design of Toothed Gear, by Hill, 4/6, Red. to 1/9 ; Diesel Engine Design, by Purduv, 25/-, Red.
to 13/2; Manufacture of Paint, by Smith, 16/-, Red. to 8/8; Dyeing of Cotton Fabrics, by Beech,
16/-, Red. to 7/8; The Soil, by King, 15/6, Red. to 10/6 ; The Banana, by Fawc'ett, 18/-,
Red. to 12/8; Agriculture and the Farming Business, by Benson, 12/6, Red. to 8/6; Book of
the Pig, by Long, 11/6, Red. to 8/2 ; Founding of the Wool Industry of Australia, 4/6, Red. to
2/10; Breeding of Farm Animals, by Harper, 7/6, Red. to 3/2; Farm Manures, by Thorne, 7/6,
Red. to 3/2; How Crops Grow, by Johnson, 7/6, Red. to 3/2; The Young Farmer, by Hunt,
7/6, Red. to 3/2; Home Repairs, by Gray, 3/6, Red. to 2/10; Progressive Carpentry, 6/-, Red.
to 2/9; Wilson’s Carpentry and Joinery, 10/-, Red. to 7/10 ; Practical Upholsterer and Cutter-
out. by Bilmead, 3/6, Red. to 2/3; Modern Developments in Railway Signalling, by Tattersall,
28/-, Red. to 15/10; Railroad Electrification and the'Electric Locomotive, by Manson, 24/-,
Red. to 13/-; Railway Signal Engineering (Mechanical), by Lewis, 18/6, Red. to 11/6.
DIESEL ENGINES, by David Louis Jones.
A practical Treatise on the principles, construction, operation and main-
tenance of the Diesel oil-engine, both marine and stationary types, with a
descriptive chapter on the latest developments in Diesel locomotive and
Diesel electric-drive for ship propulsion.
565 Pages, Illustrated with 241 Engravings.
Usually 25/-. Special Price, 15/- Post Free.
One of the best books on the Diesel Engine yet written.
Railway Maintenance Engineering, by Sellew, 22/6, Red. to 11/6; Turner’s Metalplate Workers
Workshop Companion, 8/6, Red. to 6/-; Motorman’s Practical Air Brake Instructor, by Denehee,
7/6 Red. to 5/4; Electric Railway Handbook, by Richey, 26/-, Red. to 20/6 ; Woods’ Westing-
house E-T Air Brake Instruction Pocket Book, 12/6, Red. to 5/8; Hydraulic Turbines with
Chapter on Centrifugal Pumps, by Dougherty, 18/-, Red. to 5/6; Pumps and Hydraulics, Part
I by Rogers, 7/6, Red. to 3/-; Hydraulic Elevators, by Baxter, 16/6, Red. to 8/3; Motion
Picture Electricity, by Hellberg, 19/6, Red. to 8/2 ; Storage Batteries Simplified, by Page, 10/-,
Red. to 7/10; ABC Telegraphic Code, by Clanson Thue, £4/10/-, Red. to 21/6; Theory and
Calculation of Alternating Current Phenomena, by Steinmetz, 38/-, Red. to 13/6; Theory and
Calculation of Transient Electric Phenomena and Oscillations, by Steinmetz, 36/-, Red. to 16/3 ;
American Toolmaking and Interchangeable Manufacturing - , by Woodworth, 22/6, Red. to 11 /3 ;
O’Connor’s Gas Engineers’ Pocket Book, by Gilbert, 22/6, Red. to lb/9; The Art of Poly*
chromatic and Decorative Turning, by Audsley, 5/6, Red. to 2/4; Linseed Oil and Other Seed
Oils, by Ennis, 33/-, Red. to 9/-; Modern Drilling Practice, by Hammond, 18/>-, Red. to 8/2;
Oxy-Acetylene Welding and Cutting, Electric and Thermit Welding, by Manly, 7/6, Red. to 4/9 ;
Text-book of Applied Mechanics, by Cryer and Jordon, 7/6, Red. to 5/4; Shafting, Pulleys,
Belting, Rope Transmission and Shaft Governors, by Collins, 15/-, Red. to 8/4 ; The Practical
Toolmaker and Designer, bv Wilson, 15/-, Red. to 8/2 ; Drake’s Telephone Handbook, by Moreton,
7/6 Red to 4/9; Electric Motors, Direct and Alternating—Principles, Construction, Operation
and Maintenance, by Moreton, 7/6, Red. to 4/9; Modern Electrical Construction, by Horstman,
7/6, Red.- to 4/9; Alternating Current —Theory, Practice and Diagrams, by Ilorstmann, 7/6,
Red. to 4/9; Electrical Tables and Engineering Data, by Horstmann, 7/6, Red. to 4/9;
Notes on Building Construction, Part IV, 20/-, Red. to 11/-; Notes on Building Construction,
Part 111, 27/6, Red. to 16/-; The Clayworkers’ Handbook, by Searle, 26/-, Red. to 20/9;
Cement, Concrete and Bricks, by Searle, 13/6, Red. to 6/-; Concrete Costs, by Tayloi, 33/-,
Red. to 25/9; Architectural Pottery, by Lefevre, 21/-, Red. to 11/4; Elevators, by Jail mgs, 12/6,
Red. to 8/2; The Modern Gasoline Automobile, by Page, 24/-, Red. to 16/6; Automobile
Upkeep and Care, by Manly, 7/6, Red. to 5/3 ; The Gasoline Automobile, by Heldt, 34/-, Red. to 11/-
Pay a visit to our Technical Book Department, where many more bargains
are available.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
small printing plant. Neither was a printer,
and when the plant arrived they didn t
know what to do with it. Frederick
Michael Stokes, a practical printer, joined
them, and the firm of Stephens, Stokes and
McGarvie was established. Business was
not the best, so, “as politics were running
very high, we thought there was a good
opening for an independent, moderate and
useful .commercial newspaper.” The Rev.
John McGarvie, brother of William, wrote
their leaders. From that beginning, with
a plant that looks as if it would sit on the
present sub-editor’s table and still leave
plenty of room for Mr. Theakstone, big as
he is, and with a circulation of 750 at its
third issue, which crept up to 3100 in 10
years, the “independent, moderate and
useful commercial newspaper” steadily grew
year by year with the growing city and
State, until to-day it is almost as much an
institution as the city itself, and liable to be
sought after in matters of libel by such
eminent citizens as Mr. William Morris
Hughes. Its first libel action of any import-
ance, by the way, occurred in 1834, the
“Herald” having accused an acquitted man
of suborning the prosecution. W. C. Went-
worth himself appeared for the defendant
and won a verdict on all counts.
In those early days the “Herald” indulged
in what the present chroniclers —the preface
mentions S. Elliott Napier and P. S. Allen
—call “wrathful recriminations, in which it
frequently expressed itself in terms that
might well have come from the pen of Mr.
Shirk himself.” It was especially savage
towards its contemporary, the “Colonist”:
We observe that the Jesuitical conductor oi that
would-be pious print, the “Colonist,” has been at his
old trick, lying, in his last number.... This journal,
“devoted to religion,” has been a fraud from the
commencement.... Such conduct will end probably
in a contest between lying and the law —between
blackguardism and public decency.
The “Herald” finished the argument by
swallowing its rival, and announced: — ■
Having purchased the copyright and materials of
the “Colonist” paper, the proprietor of the “Sydney
Herald” begs to apprise the public that the two
papers will be incorporated....
probably as naive an announcement, coming
after the “lying, fraud and blackguardism,”
as has ever blown from the trumpet of a
newspaper. In those days, too, the “Herald”
indulged in what the present chroniclers
call “cruel, would-be witticisms polluting
the otherwise sincere and sober columns.”
Here are a few: —
Mary Beady, for being so confoundedly giddy
that a wheelbarrow had to be put in requisition to
convey her to the watch-house, was ordered to be
secured in the stocks for two hours.
Frederick Kello, assigned to the 39th Kegiment,
charged with absenting himself for two days, ex-
claimed : “Ah, your Honor, it’s all the effect of
licker.” Sentenced to ten days on the treadmill.
Richard Bell, for jumping over his master’s gate
for the purpose of going to a “hop,” was ordered
to hop for seven days on the mill.
Ceorge Curtis, for lying and snoozing of a morn-
ing between the blankets instead of cutting wood,
was sent to the mill for a month to learn industrious
habits.
Jeremiah Gerrarty, in possession of a proboscis
highly carbuncled, was charged with revelling in
Bacchanalian joys till Somnus muzzled him and laid
him on the middle of his back in George-street.
Two hours’ lounge in the stocks.
The chroniclers add that to find such things
in the “Herald” “is to receive something of
the shock with which one would come
across a painted harridan of the streets
amid the serene surroundings of a nunnery.”
But, begging their pardon, it was doubtless
this sort of thing, quite as much as the
ponderous solemnity of the leaders, which
prevented the “Herald” from suffering the
fate of its contemporaries. Similarly, its
“inhuman” attitude towards the blacks,
which the chroniclers also deplore and
find non-understandable. The “Herald”
succeeded not in spite of these so-called
blotches on its fair Scutcheon, but because
it has always been the newspaper of its
time and place. A newspaper can be funda-
mentally wrong without being fatally wrong.
To-day the “Herald” is making attacks on
things and ideas which to the chroniclers of
its next century will doubtless be quite as
astounding as those “blotches” seem to the
present ones.
Dovetailed with the story of the news-
paper’s life, and the running account of
the life, growth and development of Sydney,
the State and even Australia, is the story
of the “Herald’s” owners since 1841, the
Fairfaxes. It is a story of courage, work and
honesty—that holy trinity for which our
political bagmen have sought, and pretended
they were hawking, a substitute. The
original John Fairfax came here from
Leamington, following a libel action against
his newspaper there which left him bank-
rupt. He arrived in Sydney with five
pounds and nearly as many children, and
25 years later, in 1851, took a trip back to
England and paid all his creditors to the
penny.
The big book is equally strong pictorially.
Its pictures—scores of them—range from the
earliest prints and cuts (astonishingly well
produced) to color reproductions of things
like Gruner’s “Valley of the Tweed” and
Lambert’s “Tiranna.” It was a bright and
effective idea to mix these pictures as has
been done, so that on the one page you
have in contrast the fashions in dress, archi-
tecture and life generally of different
periods. The big work is rounded off with
a good index, and for reference purposes it
is capital. The present reviewer wishes it
had been written in a more lively manner,
but that is his only quarrel, apart from the
private matter of having dropped it on a
bowl of goldfish.
Australian Letters Neglected?
In his recent article “Australian Letters
and Professors,” “Country Ped” rides rough-
shod over facts. It is sheer nonsense to
say:—
As soon as a student comes within the shadow of
the University he is forbidden to take any further
interest in Australian literature. Evidently the pro-
fessors of English and the public examiners in the
subject consider that Australian literature is not
worth serious study by anyone over 14 years.
My own experience of a Melbourne Uni-
versity “imported professor” has been that
he did his utmost to encourage good verse
and prose, whether Australian or otherwise,
English Part II included “A Book of Aus-
tralian Verse,” by Walter Murdoch. This
anthology is a second and revised edition
of the “Oxford Book of Australian Verse,”
which appeared in 1918. At examination
a question was asked on it, and only a
good general knowledge of its 203 poems
and 84 authors could save the student from
being “shot” in that section of the paper.
For the third and last year the books in-
cluded “The English Poets,” the T. H.
Ward-edited selections from Browning to
Rupert Brooke. Here, too, there was Aus-
tralian verse.
WYVERN .
A Satchel of Books
Men and Wives, by I. Compton Burnett
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d. net), is about the ’nine-
ties, when middle-aged Englishmen addressed
their unresponsive butlers like this:—
“I feel proud of my home, of my wife, of my
sons and my daughter, my menservants and mv
maidservants, and the stranger that is within my
gate. I take a satisfaction in my possessions.”
The story, which is all as redundant and
humorless as that, concerns the struggle for
spiritual mastery between complacent Sir
Godfrey and his ailing but tenacious wife.
She commits suicide in the end, but wins all
along the line, as such monomaniacs usually
do. This is a conscientiously written but
strangely dull book, in which the characters
analyse their mostly negligible emotions and
ideas at interminable length in language that
never descends to a colloquialism.
A Sop o’ Moonshine, by John MacCallum
(Methuen; 7s. 6d. net), will delight Scots,
humor-lovers and drunks. “Poker” Grant
discovers a formula for whisky which cheers
but doesn’t inebriate. He represents his old
college at Oxford in its annual drinking
tourney with Balliol, and dosed as he is
with chiwerefumpu antitoxin, he is invin-
cible :
The Balliol crew are beginning to waver, and
three withdraw amid crashing applause from the
Clarendon supporters. A gasp of amazement, which
later developed into one long yell of cheering,
broke out when Poker opens his second pint and
attacks it as if it were a bottle of Kola The
two remaining Balliol men, with a despairing ges-
ture, rise and come over to Poker, and, amid a
thunder of applause, shake hands with him.
Slowly he rises. The audience hold their breath.
With a firm step Poker follows the swaying forms of
the Balliol men past the referees, who, on a flag-
staff run up the Clarendon colors amid such a
storm of enthusiasm as Brackenbury Hall has never
before witnessed.
It is nearly all like that —cheerful asininity,
with a couple of rather superfluous love
stories trickling through it.
If Mrs Henry Dudeney’s The House in
the High Street (Collins; 7s. 6d. net) has a
serious defect it is its bitter scorn of the
middle classes of her native land-—a char-
acteristic of many modern English novelists,
and one in which they differ widely from
the great Victorians. The Birtles, who lived
in Lewes half a century ago, were a poison-
ous lot. Papa, a futile drunkard who left
his family penniless; mamma, a conceited
fool, and their daughters had hardly a like-
able quality among them. Always excepting
Cordelia, who was honest, simple and a dar-
ling, and suffered for it. Her development,
from childhood on to her love affair with
a waster, and her successful career as a
schoolmistress, is examined with great in-
sight. The ironic ending rings Very true.
All’s Well with the World, by E. Maria
Albanesi. (Ward, Lock and Co.; 7s. 6d.),
is “Cinderella” modernised. Sally works
with angelic patience in the kitchen of
Brant Farm, though ill-treated by Mrs. Ken-
nard and her two spiteful and jealous
daughters. The wretched creatures lose all
control of themselves when Sally’s true
identity is disclosed, and write on a half-
sheet of notepaper: “No doubt you think
you are a very great personage now that
you are called the Honorable Starling Brant,
and are told that Lord Heronscourt is your
father. But what you perhaps don’t know
yet is that your mother was an actress and
not a very reputable person.” In her new
sphere Sally, all unwittingly, makes an
enemy of the fashionable Edith Rimmer, and
she too, in a manner of speaking, gets it in
the neck. On learning that Sally has cap-
tured the Prince (Michael Penchester) Edith
exploded:—
“Married!” and she gave an ugly laugh. “D—n
you all! You’ve tricked me, and taken from me
the only man for whom I have ever cared.”
But Sally lived happily ever after, you’ll be
pleased if not surprised to hear.
And a Little Verse
THE UN-ZEALOUS LOVER.
Pythagoras, he is a man
Who writes with bean-juice from a spoon,
Across a mirror, words that can
Be read again upon the moon.
Then, O Pythagoras, my friend,
In this dark hour be kind to me,
And with thy spoon a message send
At once to false Euphrosyne:
Tell her in Thessaly or Thrace,
Or wheresoever she may win,
There is no land or living place,
World-wide that shall not read her sin.
And further add I do forgive
That she from me my heart has ta’en;
And only beg, so I may live,
She will return my purse again.
n.s.w.
HUGH MCCRAE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Hig: Note suggestion that Lang should
let Government Savings Bank depositors have free
tickets in his first lottery... .A.L.K.: No enthusiasm
here for autograph verse... .S.P.N.: Too much stuffing
in “The Pigeon’’... .S.L.: Unfortunately, hasn’t quite
enough punch in it J.O’G.: Cheerily done, but
content far too slight.... E.G.: Clever enough in its
punful way, but it has to go the way of punishment.
. ...W.J.S.: Such cliches as “silent pain” knock it.
... .R.G.P.: Sorry the tui merely “preens and taunts,
but will not sing.” Give the little chap time to
get used to you... .T.D.V.: Nothing in that
W. 5.1.: If you want to do Kate a good turn, insure
yourself in her favor, and then read the poem to
her....G.5.: You don’t quite get it.... Australienne:
Sincere enough, but it doesn’t solve the problem....
Bill: Your other name isn’t a word of ten letters
beginning with “5”... .T. 5.8.: Slender... .Rafi:
Subject dismal, but the treatment has points....
R.W.: Second stanza of the “Cop” is capital. With
a turn of humor like that you should climb into
print some day... .T.P.W.: Like most of the verse
inspired by the current doleful times, it is sincere
without being what it would have to be, inspiring.
. ...N.A.S.: Might suit a children’s supplement in
a Sunday newspaper... .E.M.E.: Not stabling that
outlaw... .F.L.: Too hard to believe.... J.C.: Dreary.
.... M.O’M.: The answer to “The Craven’s Prayer”
is not a cheque... .H.J.H.: “Gib it a few piastres.
Mr. Mackenzie.” Imshee! Anon: Verse on Jack
Lang has one thing in common with its subject—
there’s a deuce of a lot of wind in it... .E.K.A.:
You’ve yet to learn the difference between mere
description and poetic observation... .T.H.E.: Topic
restricted... .J.D.S.R.: Neither says anything very
new.... J.L.H.: Too much like a music-hall ballad.
.Ho-Fang: Well, thank Heaven people still have
the sense to read Hood. You’re the second in a
week... .M.L.G.: “Acceptance” proved too optimistic
a title... .Broadcaster: If you could have done it
better it would have gone in... .L. 8.1.: Merit in
all of them, but not enough of it to excuse their
length.... Kat: Not quite poetical enough for
“Answers” column. .. .H.8.E.: “Prolog” is as wooden
as its spelling... .H.M.: You take too long to tell
the swaggie yarn... .W.McE.: Not quite good
enough.. . .Meg: “Sunrise” ended, as usual, in
a blaze of fire... .T.E.A.: Too much of a
tinkle about “The Belle of the Push”....
G.W.R.S.: Quentin Pope is a resident of Maori-
land, and the opinions expressed on the Red Page
over his name are his own, as your opinions would
remain your own if you expressed any worth pub-
lishing. Now, if you like, attack Quentin Pope’s
article on slang in the light of that information.
Bellerive: Begin the great Tasmanian serial with
MACQUARIE ISLAND.
Prison ruins can be seen
Of the old penal years,
Where cursed the desperate
And heartbroken shed tears.
Of the clinking chains
And cat-and-nine-tails
Grim memories survive
Though sweet freedom prevails.
Of the notorious barracks
Dusty fragments remain.
Once hell of the transported
From far o’er the main.
(Next: “The Cataract Gorge.”)
. ...W.A.: Yes; but isn’t silence the best policy
n0w?.... Edna R.: As artificial as the wool flowers
on grandma’s mantelpiece... .M.G.0.5.: Fizzles out
towards the finish. .. .H.G.L.: Fairly well handled,
but not much of a plot. . . .G.C.C.: Other writers
have left little to be said about that topic
H.E.8.: You didn’t expect us to read it to the
bitter end, did you ?... .K.R.: Novelettish... .E.D.8.:
Rather like the old bird, but The Bulletin is not
its roosting place. .. .E.M.G.: Forget the past if
that’s all you can recall W.E.8.: Flimsy frame-
work and a patched covering... .D.8.0.C.: Your
musings are not worth the space they would occupy.
. ...L.8.: Anything patterned on a thing like
“The Song of the Shirt” would have to
be a little wonder to see print... .Del. A.: What
do you write with —a banana?... .H.L.W.: If you
got over the tendency to moralise you’d do better.
C.B.A.: Slipshod S.E.F.J.: If you’re thinking
of staging it, insure the actors.... P.J.1.: Ordinary
lovers’ tiff and ordinary reconciliation.... H.M.: Let
us have them a fourth of that length Li.B.L.:
Should find a market nearer home.... W.H.: Not
even good flapper fodder W.H.R.: Couldn’t squeeze
Septimus in... .A.M.S.: Fails to thrill... .L.T.P.:
Hustled the Peeping Tom off the premises... .P.M.;
A flat finish... .J.L.: The worm has turned that
way too often. .. .S.M.: Try something more cheerful.
. ...N.V.K.: Want more than the everyday sort of
impression.... D. 8.: Bill’s a dashed dull wanderer.
. ...E.L.J.: A literary jellyfish. . . .J.E.K.: Sorry,
but can’t give your pup a good name... .J.K.W.:
Hopeless .T.C.: In plain words, put the willing
workless on settlements, provide * them with a cow
and a few fowls, a horse, perhaps, and a spade,
give them expert advice and ask them to help keep
themselves. An excellent idea which we’ve mentioned
many times.... A.C. J.: Out of what W. W. Jacobs
story did. that mariner step ?. ... V.W.: A schoolboy
prank told at tedious length... .J.M.: Promise in
the blackbirding story. Cut out the Americanisms
and try again C.H.T.: A Bulletin writer antici-
pated you 35 years ago. ...T.P.: Too much about
the car; too little about its human freight....
G.M.: Obtuse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.P.J.: Uninviting... .S.R.S.: ' You might sell
them elsewhere. .. .H.C.: The week’s worst....
L.J.: Blobs in a sea of lines... .H.A.:
Horrible. . . .A.K.L.: The lad needs lessons. . . .F.S.:
Doesn’t climb high enough. .. .P.B.C. : Totally unlike
an ab 0.... .H.M.: Not signing on the deck steward.
.... F. 8.: Merit in it; keep on. .. .M.P.: A decora-
tive dud... . A.N.M.: Leaves us c01d.... J.D.: Miles
below standard... .D.M. Same joke has been used
apropos of punting, golfing and fishing.... H.R.:
Patchy, and the jest is old. .., A.B.L;: What do you
draw wdth —a propstick dipped in tar?... .D.W.:
Promising, if you’re a youngster.... 8.C.: Abo.
parson haranging an ] abo. congregation—weren’t
they American niggers in the first place ?.... J. J.:
it violates all the laws M.S.F.: Why disrobe such
ungainly figures? In winter, too !... .S.E.: Both
look as if they had been hacked out of knotty
hardwood... .8.R.: Cultivate a free style... .G.P-",
You lifted it—and lowered it.


d
fsd
\ M
H
m
i #
■
■
m
I
*^K
1
m
■ ■:;
m
m
/ 'X,, v s VV<
as
«. - %
■
I
m
m
/
a


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2680.
June 24, 1931.
THE SIGHTSEERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21J t George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IVi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.j 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
LET’S RE-EMPLOY 100,000 MEN.
There are over 300,000 people unemployed
in Australia to-day. Why? We know why
they lost their old jobs; but that doesn’t
answer the question. Why haven’t they
found new jobs? We shall be told, of
course, that there is no work for them to
do. That is not true. There is work for
them to do—the work of providing for their
own needs.
Let us go back to our small island in the
Pacific again. One hundred people are
cast ashore there, and have to make shift
with the few odds and ends salvaged from
the wreck. They soon find that there is
work for all hands—each person has to feed
and clothe and shelter himself. Too many
of them may presently be growing sweet-
potatoes or bananas, and these articles may
be left on the hands of their producers, who
may thus be having a lean time; but there
is plenty of room for them to do something
else. There is no need for one of them to
be idle so long as any want of the com-
munity remains unsatisfied.
Presently the sea casts up another 50
persons. They are the equivalent of our
unemployed. They look around and are
told that every job in the place is filled.
But they can’t be allowed to starve or
perish of cold; and so the community does
just what Australia is doing now—it taxes
itself to provide for these other mouths.
Yet is it not obvious that the 50 are in
the same position as the original 100 were?
When they came there were no jobs to fill
—which is the same as finding every job
filled. But they discovered that every
person brings his own job into the world
with him—the job of feeding and clothing
and housing and entertaining and warming
him. The original 100 on the island soon
dropped to that elementary fact. “Oh no,”
they said, “we are not going to let you
newcomers just billet yourselves on us. We
have found it quite as much as we could
do to keep ourselves without keeping half
another person as well. You’ve got to
work.” The 50 looked around, and found
that things were not quite as easy in some
respects as when the original 100 landed.
For one thing the 100 had collared all the
most accessible and easily cultivated land
on the island; also they had set up shops
which got what trade there was. That was
a handicap, certainly. But the limit of
production of that land and those shops
had not been reached; and there remained
the inescapable fact that these people had
brought two things with them—(l) their
needs and (2) the labor to supply those
needs. If the land were already occupied
and the shops were already in existence,
the problem was really simplified. The 50
had merely to be scattered over the land
and shops in order to satisfy their own
needs, whereas the original 100 had to start
from absolute scratch.
That is the position of Australia to-day.
It can employ those 300,000 who are un-
employed just as well as it can employ the
million or so who are at work. There is
just as much woi’k for them to do per head
as there is for the million per head. The
latter are merely ministering to their own
wants; and the 300,000 have exactly the
same wants and the same mind and body
to satisfy those wants.
All that they haven’t got is a place to
put them. If 100,000 people were to-morrow
found places in. which to provide for them-
selves and if they did their utmost, what
would be the result? In the first week,
perhaps, there would be no great response
in trade. At the end of that week a good
many employers would wonder how they
were going to pay the extra wages. In the
second week, however, the exitra wages
would circulate. It is the theory of high
wages over again. The more money that is
paid out on Friday, the more there is to
circulate during the following week. But
not eveiy employer of labor can get his
extra wages-money back in the following
week. The woolgrower, for instance—what
he needs is money to pay for services which
will produce benefits in years to come: he
makes a tank, for instance, which will
slightly reduce his costs and improve his
products for the next 20 years, but will do
nothing special at once. The same with the
wheat- and cane-farmer. These are not very
greatly affected by the state of the coun-
try, whether it is prosperous or not. But
all others are—shopkeepers of every kind,
manufacturers of all sorts, fruitgrowers,
vegetable-growers and the thousands who
minister to the more personal wants of the
community: house-servants, entertainers and
professional people of almost every kind.
We are just beginning a great “voluntary”
loan conversion “drive.” It is important,
no doubt, that our cost of government
should be reduced; but we shall not be a
penny better off through providing that
Brown and Jones in King-street shall pay
£lO less in taxes and that in consequence
Smith in Collins-street shall have £lO less
of interest to spend. There is a far more
important voluntary “drive” open to us
than that. What we are required to do
is to get those 300,000 unemployed back
in jobs—to find places for them where they
can earn their living by supplying their
own needs, just as the million in jobs are
earning their living by supplying their
own needs. It can be done; and it seems
to The Bulletin that it can be done with
the best chances of success by a first great
voluntary and simultaneous re-employment
of 100,000 people. As we have seen, a con-
siderable number of people who might
profitably employ men would not reap any
immediate benefits; and they ought there-
fore to be assisted to pay for their quota.
That assistance should come out of the
unemployment relief fund, which every
State has established; if a wool- or wheat-
grower would undertake to employ an addi-
tional man, on work which may be assumed
to be not immediately remunerative, he
ought to be helped to pay the wages.
It is important that in the re-employment
of 100,000 people all over Australia there
should be a reasonable proportion of
primary producers; hence the wisdom of
using unemployment relief taxation to
stimulate production. Yet the scheme could
be a success even without that. A fact
that we have to keep in mind is that these
100,000 people and their dependants are
being fed and sheltered to-day. They are
in the position of those 50 newcomers to
our Pacific island who were billeted upon
the original 100. Where only a few people
are concerned cause and effect can be
plainly seen; it is only when we get into
large communities that economic facts are
obscured. The hundred, because the posi-
tion was so plain, promptly put the 50 at
work. If we could see the facts as plainly,
we should not rest until our hundreds of
thousands of unemployed were similarly at
work. As a community we could be no
worse off; for the wages of these 100,000
would still be with us. Simply more would
be dug out from somewhere and circu-
lated. And we should be the actual gainers
by whatever was produced. The longer we
consume without producing the poorer in-
evitably we must be; the unemployed man
who to-day catches a fish or grows a cab-
bage is a public benefactor.
The men who will get together and make
this drive for re-employing 100,000 people
simultaneously will do more for Australia
than all the politicians have done at all
the conferences since the crisis was first
sighted.
IS IT THE POLITICIAN OR THE
ELECTOR WHO IS CORRUPT?
Every month or thereabouts some politician
who believes he is a decent fellow, and
generally is, writes to The Bulletin to beg
of it to consider whether it is being fair to
the tribe. The tribe cannot, it is argued, be
less honest than the members of the tribe.
But it can, just as the manners and morals
of the mob can be infinitely worse than the
manners and morals of the individuals who
make the mob.
What may be confessed frankly is that
dishonesty in politics is not new. Since we
began to talk about democratic government
there has probably never been a time when
there has not been more or less corruption.
Always the excuse was the same —the end
justified the means: the other man’s policy
was so rotten that anything might well be
done to defeat it. And always the process
has been much the same —the purchase of
votes. In only one important respect has
there been a change. At one time the
purchase price was paid out of the pur-
chaser’s pocket; nowadays he robs somebody
to pay it.
This immoral huckstering began, so far as
Britain is concerned, with the buying and
selling of votes for Azotes. In 1788 there
were 33 Scottish shires sending each a
member to the House of Commons. They
had 2631 electors among them—an average
of about 80 apiece. Even as late as the
Reform Bill (1832) a majority of the House
of Commons was elected by less than 15,000
people. Eveiy political party has added
to this electorate in the full expectation
of getting the grateful votes of the newly-
enfranchised.
After there was nothing more to be done
in that way in Australia, the extension
of the public service offered good chances
for buying political support; and it still
does. But this can be only retail corruption.
In Australia more perhaps than in any other
country we found that borrowing—masque-
rading as a “vigorous development policy”
—opened the way to the same thing whole-
sale. No man knows how much of the 11
hundred millions we have borrowed has
been borrowed with an eye on coming elec-
tions and the purchase of votes; but the
amount is certainly colossal.
But even that plan was found presently
to have its limitations. It is not so easy
to scatter money in the city and suburbs
—in the industrial areas —on “development”
works. The political crook who will
never confess himself a crook soon dis-
covered something to suit that constitu-
ency, too. He began promising higher
wages and shorter hours, in private employ
and the public service; he has gone on
doing it ever since, and has had no diffi-
culty in discovering the right men to make
the necessary awards in courts which he has
set up for the purpose.
There have been times, too, when circum-
stances have made it desirable to win the
favor of special sections of the voting com-
munity. To-day- in N. S. Wales the Lang
Government, falling into disfavor with the
unemployed, throws them a 25 per cent,
increase in the dole, though nobody can
say where the money is to come from; in
the yesterdays it was the baby bonus or
the war gratuity.
The time came when the country, crushed
under the burden of unprofitable loan
works and loans for which there are no
works, and industrial tribunals and awards
and pensions and bonuses, fell into great
financial distress. What could the politician
do now? He had given everybody a vote,
exhausted the country’s credit, and piled
wages higher than industry could afford.
The situation was and still is a little
difficult, and for the moment he is in doubt.
What seems certain to him is that he has
got to go back on his tracks and so lose
some votes, and he is counting up what
votes he can spare best. The politics of
the past 18 months have, in fact, consisted
of little else. Whom shall we throw to the
wolves? Very valiantly at first the Federal
Government said everybody must sacrifice
something; but all its subsequent efforts
until a fortnight ago were designed to save
from sacrifice those whose votes might
otherwise be lost. Now war pensioners,
generally speaking, are to suffer a reduction
of 20 per cent, on 1919 rates. But old-age
and invalid pensioners, who outnumber them
by 50,000 (considering voters only), are
to get 20 per cent, more than 1919 rates.
Well, and what can we do about it all?
The receiver, let us remember, can get too
much attention, the thief too little. The
politician cannot buy votes without some-
one selling them. In the old days the
sale was quite open. You could become a
“freeman” of a great city for £3; and there-
after the votes of freemen were sold openly
—even were advertised for sale. For many
years we moderns cloaked our venality;
to-day once more we put mass votes up to
the highest bidder unashamedly. That is
the point at which this most dreadful curse
must be attacked. We must cultivate a
spirit which will hold in contempt any body
of men, whether they be a Public Service
association or any other, which will sell its
votes for money to be paid into their own
pockets. It was because the founders of
the All for Australia League and others
of the same time and character saw this
cancer eating into the very heart of demo-
cratic government and sought to combat it
that they deserved, and still deserve, the
warmest commendation. For the moment
most of them are under a cloud: they have
been attacked for their refusal to join this
or that political party. But their place was
outside every party; their job was to call
the members of all parties to political
righteousness. There never was more urgent
need of that call; and any slackening on the
part of these newborn organisations will be
a public calamity.
SEND HIM BACK TO SCHOOL!
Only politicians with putty spines could
be happy in a Lang Ministry. Peter Lough-
lin resigned from the first of these amazing
combinations after a series of hullabaloos,
at one of which he very nearly had his
leader deposed. Six months later eight
other Ministers were dismissed, and
although an absent ninth (Mr. McKell)
was tentatively admitted to what one of
the expelled eight, the present Justice Mc-
Tiernan, indignantly called “the Scabinet,”
his name was scratched off the list within
a fortnight, it having been reported from
London that he “refused to follow Mr. Lang
into the wilderness.” The dissolution of the
third Lang Administration has begun in its
eighth month with the loss of Mr. Lysaght,
its Attorney-General.
It was insinuated in the Leg. Assembly
that Chief Justice Street had advised the
Governor that the Leg. Council Abolition
Bill would have “no force or effect without
a referendum,” this before becoming a party
to the Full Court decision. “They ought
to sack Street,” shouted Davies, the ill-
conditioned Minister of Education, who
has distinguished himself by placing Gov-
ernment schools at the disposal of Labor
Leagues for night meetings, at a peppercorn
rent, and for the propagation of that
“socialisation of the means of production,
distribution and exchange” which has been
achieved in Russia. The Chief Justice
straightway denied that he had used the
words imputed to him, or had given the
Governor any advice whatever, and asked
that the letter in which he refuted the
monstrous accusation should be read in the
House without delay. This the Attorney-
General proposed to do, but he was told
that the vindication of the Chief Justice
must await Mr. Davies’s pleasure, that
person having gone to another State to
discourse on the beauties of the Lang plan.
Mr. Lysaght thereupon resigned. His extra-
ordinary Administi-ation of Justice Bill is
dead, and as a politician he is pirobably at
death’s door; but the last act of his
Ministerial career was entirely creditable
to him. He atoned for the foolish things he
attempted by the honorable thing he did.
With young Mr! Lamaro Promoted
to the Attorney-Generalship, and Mr.
McKell moved from the Local Gov-
ernment Department to that of Justice,
Mr. Lang presented what he was pleased to
call a Budget. In his policy speech at
Auburn on September 22 he attacked
Stevens, his hated predecessor, for having
kept the 1929 Budget back till December,
“one of the latest in the history of the
State”; so he had to try to explain why,
reaching office at the beginning of Novem-
ber, he had delayed the delivery of his
own accounts till the third week of the
last month of the financial year. He made
a bad job of it, as he did of every other
attempt to reconcile his imaginative fiction
of September and October with the harsh
facts of June. “It is from Labor,” he said
at Auburn, “that balanced budgets are to
be expected. Labor will rehabilitate the
finances of the railways and tramways;
Labor will find the money to complete all
those incomplete public works in which
many millions of borrowed money are
lying idle; Labor offers a policy of con-
struction embracing sound economy and
prudent finance.” Now the gentleman has
been reduced to revealing “the simple and
unpalatable fact that the Government will
have an aggregate deficit of £8,731,800 on
June 30.” To this staggering amount some-
thing substantial has to be added on
account of the tramways, the losses on
which were, for some reason or other, car-
ried to August 4 only ; but there will be “a
net saving of about £960,000 consequent
upon the inability of the Government to
meet certain overseas interest payments,
exchange, etc., and which the Common-
wealth Government paid for the State.”
Such is the Lang way of describing the re-
sults of bilking the public creditor, resorted
to in defiance of his election pledge (“Labor
sets its face against all repudiation”) and
of N. S. Wales’s obligations to the Com-
monwealth and the sister-States. On that
other spectacular achievement of the Lang
Administration, the closing of the Govern-
ment Savings Bank, involving, among other
things, the dishonoring of all Rural Bank
cheques, not a word was said.
There is a. lot- of the school bully in
John Thomas Lang’s composition. He
really ought to be sent back to school —
preferably to the seminary controlled by
Mr. McGuinness, of the Teachers’ Federa-
tion, to whom he gave his word, so Mr.
McGuinness has said, that the Salary Re-
duction Bill would be repealed by April 1
—to copy some of the saws in which the
homely wisdom of our forefathers, and
other people’s forefathers, is expressed. It
might do him good to transcribe, a thou-
sand times each: “Honesty is the best
policy”; “111-gotten gains never prosper”;
“Truth is mighty and will prevail”; and
“Labor to keep alive in thy breast that
little spark of celestial fire which is called
conscience.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Amateur Armies.
“Mr. Garden: ‘I have been busy on evictions, and
I have stopped five. I, with Doyle, was at an
eviction’
“Mrs. Eatock: ‘You are a liar, and a cur. You
were not at Bridge-road.’
“Voice : ‘ls that right, Doyle ?’
“Mr. Doyle : ‘Garden was at an eviction. He is
right! ’ ” —Labor Council report.
Australian Governments are in process of
learning the folly of letting irresponsible
outsiders take the business of governing out
of the Government’s hands. Almost any
day in Sydney the spectacle may be wit-
nessed of members of the police force assist-
ing at evictions under orders from their
superiors, while members of the Unemployed
Workers’ Defence Force—sometimes assisted
by aldermen and trades hall magnates of
the Garden type—oppose them.
It began with the “basher gangs” which
were organised at Sydney Trades Hall to
terrorise non-striking timber-workers. Then
came the Mineworkers’ Army, for active
service on the coalfields, whose manoeuvres
led indirectly to the killing of an innocent
lad. The A.L.A. arrived next and enlisted,
according to Mr. Garden, 100,000 men tq,
“deal with” an alleged Fascist army com-
posed of A.F.A. Leaguers. This got plenty
of publicity in the Government’s official
organ till Mr. Lang’s inability to keep any
of his pre-election promises to the workers
became apparent. The storm troops then
began to transfer to the Unemployed
Workers’ Defence Army, which, in the words
of “The Unemployed Worker,” “has carried
out training daily.” The Government is
afraid of this organisation, and with good
reason. To quote the “Labor Daily”:—
It has been learned that the thugs controlling the
Unemployed Workers’ Movement were in effect steal-
ing 20 per cent, of the money donated for relief,
and that flying gangs of these hoodlums were terror-
ising small shopkeepers and demanding gifts of 10s.
‘for the unemployed,’ under penalty of boycott.
But the Government isn’t in a position to
disband or even offend this army, which is
why we see the Premier’s right-hand man,
Mr. Garden, alternately bolting from its
members at the Trades Hall and co-operat-
ing with them in acts of illegality in the
suburbs.
The chief danger is that those who join
up may be seduced by its title and its
habit of drilling daily into imagining it is
a real army. It isn’t. In Australian law
any member who does an indictable act
(kills someone, for example) is as much a
criminal as if he had acted independently.


The War Debts Muddle.
The possibility , that the whole question of
war debts and reparations may be reopened
is a welcome one. The impossibility, of
collecting in full was early recognised by
Britain, and Uncle Sam, though he then
declined Lord Balfour’s suggestion of a whole-
sale writing-off, has since found it necessary
to make almost as liberal discounts as
J. Bull granted his European debtors. Even
so, the weight of liabilities incurred in war-
time is still pressing heavily on all the
nations that engaged in the conflict, and the
recent disastrous slump in prices can be
traced as intelligently to this cause as to
any other. The world’s productive power
was probably not impaired by the war.
Assuming that currency values fell by 50
per cent, as a result of the rise of prices
in the war period, and after allowing for
that, there was an actual improvement in the
export trade of the principal belligerents
immediately after the war, amounting in
the case of the U.S.A. to 83 per cent.,
Italy 87 per cent, and France 81 per cent.
Britain was less fortunate, but showed an
improvement of 16 per cent., and even
Germany was 13 per cent, to the good.
These increased earnings by production,
however, were offset by the vastly in-
creased cost of government, which, of course,
includes payment of interest on loans.
After making a 50 per cent, allowance for the
altered scale of currency, this increase over
1914 amounted in 1920 to 702 per cent,
in Germany, 402 per cent, in * the United
States, 260 per cent, in Britain, 180 per cent,
in France and 143 per cent, in Italy, though
in the last-named country deficit-budgeting
had become a habit, expenditure having
risen by 392 per cent.
Passing over Germany’s gigantic and
undefined war liability, Britain in war-time
increased her national debt (measured in
1914 currency) by 443 per cent., France by
249 per cent. Italy by 162 per cent, and the
U.S.A. by 297 per cent. Britain’s debtors in
Europe are expected to pay her just about
enough to enable her to pay Uncle Sam, and
Sam, though he hasn’t said much about it,
increased his debt by 270 per cent., after
making allowance for the recoverable por-
tion of his lendings. All the countries con-
cerned are busily taxing their citizens to
pay internal, and, in the case of all countries
save the U.S.A., external war debts. Such a
fall in prices as that recently experienced
makes the debt burden heavier and puts
all Treasuries—even that of the United
States—into difficulties.
The notable thing about the whole out-
look is that the world is making itself poorer
than it need have been through war wastage
alone by attempts to cover up that wastage
in a cloud of book-keeping. Everywhere
in the world purchasing power and the
development of industry are being restricted
because of the tremendously high scale of
Government expenditure, and the results
are not escaped even by those nations which
took no part in the war and whose national
administrations are economical.
Faced by these world-difficulties, Presi-
dent Hoover proposes a one-year mora-
torium—a postponement for that period
“of all payments of inter-Governmental
debts, reparations and relief debts, both
principal and interest,” but “not including
obligations of Governments held by private
parties.” In effect, the U.S.A. will forego
245 million dollars of interest and other
payments, while the Allies will forego 425
millions of German reparations. It is not
amazing generosity on America’s part, but
it may be a little more substantial than it
looks; for while there is no question about
the U.S.A, being able to collect the bulk
of their debts, there is grave doubt about
the possibility of the Allies collecting their
debts from Germany.
“The purpose,” says Hoover, “is to give
the forthcoming year to the economic re-
covery of the world”; and there is no
question that it will help. But it is still a
long way short of the help to recovery
which the distracted world might reasonably
expect from the republic. And until the
world does recover, that foreign trade upon
which the U.S.A. is obviously more and
more dependent cannot recover either.
«
Mr. Moore’s Next Move.
The great body of sober opinion in Queens-
land may get a strong hint from the events
of the last few months in the Common-
wealth and N. S. Wales. Both at Canberra
and Sydney the people have had to depend
upon second chambers to protect them
against wild-cat legislation and wild-cat
administration. In the Federal sphere we
have had a weak Prime Minister who gets
his impressions from the last strong man in
contact with him; wherefore we have had the
Niemeyer agreement accepted, put by for
10 months and then resurrected when the
nation was on the very point of collapse.
In N. S. Wales we have seen Lang
elected on the undertaking that his party
abhors repudiation and will have nothing
to do with it, and within a few weeks
deliberately defaulting on payments to
Britain, while providing for payments to
a foreign country.
It is not necessary to go into the ques-
tion of how Queensland came to have only
one Chamber. It is sufficient that the great
northern State is liable at almost any time
to be afflicted by local Scullins and Langs.
The party-machine system inevitably leads
to such catastrophes. It leaves it to out-
siders to determine what things Govern-
ments shall do and what they shall leave
undone. In N. S. Wales, where there is a
strong suspicion that instructions for the
government of the State are given by the
agents of a foreign authority, only the opposi-
tion of the Leg. Council has saved the people
from fantastic and destructive schemes;
similarly, only the power of the Senate
stood lately between Australia and a policy
of ruinous inflation.
There was a time when almost every
second Chamber in the world was anti-
democratic. There are not very many now
which are not the people’s bulwark against
the expropriation and misuse of popular
government. In N. S. Wales, if there were
no such bulwark, it would be possible for
the Lang Government to do everything in
complete disregard of its promises. Appa-
rently the Governor does not give any pro-
tection to the people. He might as well
be a weathercock on the roof of Govern-
ment House.
What are Mr. Moore and his Ministers
doing to preserve democratic government to
the people of Queensland? Do they pro-
pose to leave the State to the mercies of
any local Lang that may arise—a local
Lang with perhaps the more dangerous
intellectual qualities of a Theodore? N. S.
Wales is in great danger at this moment
from past hesitancy in a similar matter.
The Trades Hall, wanting to make its
domination of Parliament surer, decided
that the Leg. Council must go. Instead of
providing for the reform of the Chamber—
a nominee body—Mr. Bavin simply had a
measure passed providing that the Council
might not be abolished without a referen-
dum. By a majority in each case the Full
Court of the State and the High Court of
the Commonwealth have decided that that
law must stand—that no mere law of the
State can repeal it. Whether that is good
law is doubtful; and the Privy Council
has to pass judgment upon it. The Moore
Government has not even Bavin’s excuse
for delay: Bavin had a second Chamber
of a sort; Moore has none at all.
That it is hard to say what is the ideal
second Chamber is no excuse either for
not providing one of some intelligent kind.
Granted that one person one vote must
prevail, what chiefly remains to be decided
is the grouping of the votes. If they voted
simultaneously for the two Chambers small
electorates would give a second Chamber
that was a more replica of the “popular”
House; on the other hand, voting as a whole
is liable to give us a Chamber wherein able,
unknown men have no chance against worn-
out hacks. In Queensland it would be
easily possible to divide the State into
South, Central and North; and a House of
18 members, three elected by each division
at every “popular” election, would probably
be ample for the purposes of a Chamber of
revision and second thought.
*
Are We Nationally Conceited?
Dear Bulletin, — We talk of our “sturdy
independence.” It is nonsense. A large pro-
portion of our people have made loafing
and sponging their gospel. They are not
ashamed of it: they demand it as their
right. A third or more of our unemployed
population might be earning at least part
of their living, but prefer to hang around
and demand a bigger dole.
Our farming population is almost as bad.
I own a cocoanut plantation in Papua. I
grow all my own vegetables, keep poultry,
sell the surplus eggs, run goats for meat
and keep expenses down to a minimum.
Wheat-farmers could do the same, but
19-20ths of them don’t.
In 1900, in another country temporarily,
I had a gang of Norwegians working for
me. Every one of them had a sea-chest
filled with clothes. Their suits were splen-
did. They told me they shore their own
sheep; their womenfolk spun the wool and
made it into cloth, sent to London or Paris
for patterns, cut the cloth out ana sewed
it up after dyeing it with local dyes. Their
shirts were made from home-grown flax
bleached. I bought some from them and
they lasted for years. If the Norwegian
farmers and their womenfolk could do that,
what is to stop Australians? We must be
a decadent people.
Let us be frank and confess that we are
eaten up with national conceit. Ordinary
laws, for some reason, do not, we think,
apply to us. We have the modern wisdom;
we scorn the old outworn creeds.
Perhaps we are right. All I know is that
for the first time for many a long year a
British country has had to announce that
if it paid its creditors what it owed them
it would have to leave its public servants
and pensioners unpaid, and one-third of our
working population cannot get a job. I
think it is time we did some plain talking
to ourselves.—Yours, P. J. O.
4
Wheat Pools and Prices.
The Australian wheat-farmer isn’t a very
promising subject for governmental benevo-
lence at any time. He has to sell four-
fifths of his products abroad and the baili-
wicks of Governments don’t run beyond
their own boundaries. It was possible, when
the prospects of borrowing money were
rosier, to proffer a bait of a guaranteed
price, but that is now out of the question.
Neveitheless, the desire to make a show of
doing something for the wheat-grower dies
hard in the breasts of vote-hungry poli-
ticians, and in N. S. Wales a Marketing
rJill, among other provisions, proposes to
hold a referendum on the subject of a
wheat pool. If the farmers vote for it in
sufficient numbers a board will be set up to
seize all the wheat in the State and market
it. This board may be of three members,
two to represent the growers and one the
Government; or of five or seven members,
with, of course, more Government nomi-
nees.
Nothing could seemingly be fairer or
more democratic. If the farmers don’t want
to pool their wheat, they needn’t; if they do,
they are assured of a majority of represen-
tatives on the selling board. The only doubt-
ful things about the proposal are the neces-
sity for it, and whether an assorted bunch
of farmers and Trades Hall persons are the
best people to deal in the wheat markets of
the world. Hence many wheat-growers,
among them the biggest in the business, ask
that the State should leave them alone—
which indicates that they have learned a
lot by experience. For one thing they
remember that it was the U.S. Farm Board
which held for a rise that didn’t come, and
has in consequence millions of bushels in
silos, a fact largely responsible for the
present deplorable condition of the grain
market. In any case wheat-selling is a matter
of quick decisions, and a deliberative
assembly such as the proposed board would
be likely to discourage buyers.
What wheat-farmers need is an absolute
cessation of Government interference in
industry. They are faced with a prospect of
very low prices for perhaps two or three
years—it may be longer. They must reduce
production costs if they are to continue to
grow wheat; and arbitration awards dictat-
ing high wages and severely-restricted hours
become a mockery in the face of a vast
and growing army of unemployed. To
attempt to fob them off with this very
doubtful if not positively hopeless substitute
is to set a singularly low value on their
intelligence.
♦
The Gentleman and the Sewer.
One after another Labor union executives
are accepting the Premiers’ Conference
resolutions. They hate those which relate
to wage and salary cuts, so most of them
say: one gentleman, a Newcastle M.H.R.,
declared that after being committed to them
he felt as though he had been dragged
through a sewer. But he needn’t. He
and the rest might much more reasonably
laugh in their sleeves at having got the
better of the rest of the community for so
many years.
The simple fact is that, while we have
been borrowing at the rate of about 40
millions annually, the sewer gentleman and
the other legislators so arranged things
that wages and conditions were fixed as
though the 40 millions were actually earned. ,
For many years past, therefore, wages have
been far higher than the facts warranted—
the standard has been wholly artificial. The
amazing thing was that Labor union execu-
tives were able to “get away” with this
for so long, and they are entitled to take
great credit for their astuteness.
But when they ask that the artificial stan-
dard which was maintained when it was
possible to do it on other people’s money
should be maintained now when it is
no longer possible to do it, the money
being all spent, the gentlemen simply ask
for a miracle. And no gentleman, no
M.H.R. even, is entitled to feel like a rag
dragged out of a sewer just because he
can’t get miracles worked to order.
4
Government as a Business.
The business of government is the biggest
in Australia. It employs 214,000 people,
and charges the public for the services it
renders them over £190,000,000 a year—
about 30 per cent, of the national income
in normal times; close on 45 per cent, in a
period of depression. In return for this
money it runs the railways and some of
the trams, the post office, the police and the
law courts, the lighthouses, the schools, the
army and navy. It pays pensions, and
struggles to pay the interest on its multi-
tudinous and enormous loans. Activities
outside these do not arouse a flicker of
enthusiasm in any save a few.
The most expensive item on the list is
interest, well over £60,000,000 a year—a
very stiff bill to face after 140 years of
colonisation, and not pleasanter to look
at because so much of the money was
wasted. Close on £30,000,000 a year is paid
for pensions, maternity allowances and such-
like benevolences, swollen in these hard
times by probably another six or seven
millions for unemployment doles. In addi-
tion to that again there is a steady
£10,000,000 a year for “hospitals and other
charitable institutions,” though most of
these are perpetually begging on their own
account. One way and another Govern-
ment benevolences thus mop up close on
£50,000,000 of our earnings—which is a lot
more than a nation suffering a financial
crisis can afford. Education, or such part
of it as Government provides for, costs
us about 114 millions a year. How much
of it is good value for the money is a
matter upon which practical people begin
to have grave doubts. The police and the
courts cost £5,700,000 a year. They are a
necessity. The customs house costs
£1,650,000, out of which the lighthouse ser-
vice is provided. Railways and trams cost
us £6,000,000 a year, a loss which implies
that either there have been appalling errors
of construction or there is appalling waste
in operation.
Totting up these items, hardly one of
which can be passed without grave doubts
about mis-spending, it will be discovered
that they leave about £60,000,000 un-
accounted for. This margin can be lumped
under the heading of “trimmings and the
cost of collecting > Under efficient
and ruthless management it could be re-
duced by one-half.
Why have we not got this ruthless and
efficient management? The primary reason
is that you can’t get efficiency with-
out proper training and experience. If you
require of your professional politicians no
more than a capacity for public oratory, it
will be only very occasionally, and by great,
good luck, that you will get more. If
government, in the main, is flabby and
inept, the fault lies with the people who
created it, tolerated it; even encouraged
its worst weaknesses. Make a list of the
20 most efficient business administrators in
Australia, and it is doubtful whether half
a dozen of them could win an open seat in
any Australian popular Chamber. Cer-
tainly you could pick up a score of men
who have never been able to command
a decent administrative job in their lives
who could beat the other 20 hollow—that is
to say, for seats which hadn’t been won
and lost before the campaign started. The
fact that so many seats are won and lost
before the campaign starts is even a worse
feature of our political life; for it shows
that reason has been dethroned and the
rule of the mob or the machine substituted.
One point we shall have to decide before
long is whether every man and every woman
are entitled to the vote simply because they
are man and woman. Before we allow a
man to go into the jury-box to decide
issues of utter unimportance compared with
those which the people’s elected may handle,
we submit him to a species of preliminary
examination; and even then it is open
to either side to reject him. When it
comes to deciding for or against political
candidates, we ask no more than that the
citizen should not be a certified lunatic. As
to his knowledge of the problems involved,
as to his mental capacity to grasp them, we
trouble not at all. Indeed, we know well
that hundreds of thousands of citizens have
neither the capacity nor the knowledge; but
we are perfectly content so long as we can
buy their votes.
And we continue this system in the name
of democracy!
♦
We Might Be Worse Off.
At the end of last month the Union of
South Africa came of age. In its 21 years
this youngest of the overseas Dominions
has had its share of tribulations, including
armed rebellion and revolution. But, with
its admixture of French Huguenot, Hollander
and British blood, it has at least always
been canny and thrifty, and careful to cut
its coat according to its cloth.
First and most formidable of its heavy
burdens is the native menace. The Pax
Britannica and the spread of civilisation
have stopped inter-tribal wars and stayed
disease, both agents in keeping down ex-
cess of population in earlier days. As a
result the hordes of native races which
surround the small white settlement—for
that is really what the European popula-
tion. of the Union amounts to —is increas-
ing at the rate of the rabbit-warren. The
day is in sight when the sections of the
South African Union allotted to the native
races will be filled to overflowing. What
will happen when the tide laps over is not
nice to think about. The situation has
not been made any the easier by the pene-
tration of the black mass by Red Russia
agents.
The Indian invasion is the other cloud
hanging over the Union—and, indeed, over
all British settlements in South and East
Africa. The Hindu coolie first found his
way in as a cheap laborer for the sugar
fields of Natal. As is his custom, he
rapidly extended his activities, and always
in the direction of petty and often illicit
trading. He has even beaten the Polish
Jew off the latter’s once profitable field
of selling illegal liquor to the Kaffirs of
Johannesburg. The Government has made
frantic efforts to deal with the trouble.
It initiated a compulsory system of repatri-
ation; but this could not apply to the
native-born, and these are as the sands of
the seas in multitude. No Indian emi-
grants are now admitted, but with a fecund
folk breeding only among themselves that
barrier is futile. Attempts have been made
to confine the Indian in fixed “locations”
in the great cities; but he is openly defy-
ing the ordinances and spreading into .area?
hitherto reserved for whites. The Govern-
ment is helpless. Offenders are too numer-
ous for ordinary action. The obvious
remedy is wholesale compulsory deporta-
tion, but with these alleged British citizens
howling for their rights, no British Gov-
ernment of the type which is now busy
kissing Gandhi’s toe is likely to consent to
that.
In bad case as we are in Australia to-day,
we are at least immune from that imminent
danger of swamping by black indigenes and
brown importations which hag-rides our
South African cousins. If there is one thing
that should steel the hearts of Australians
to uphold at all costs the White Australia
tradition, in face of all the arguments in
favor of the importation of cheap colored
labor as an aid to financial rehabilitation,
it is the spectacle of the South African
Union, steadfast, yet perturbed, in the face,
not of any threat to the national financial
standing, but of a real danger to its exist-
ence as a white entity of the Empire.


“Never let smoking
give you a sore throat”
CRAVEN A
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for9d ! _^2ojor_jy6____so^i^_flatjin£
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
MU
M is
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Commonwealth Government reckons
it would have a deficit next year of 20 mil-
lions if it went on its present course; but
as you can’t have a deficit unless you can
get somebody to lend you the, money, or rob
a savings bank, or leave public servants and
others unpaid, it has screwed up its courage
to shape a new course. It expects to save
6-1 millions in interest on its internal debt
by its conversion scheme; and by cutting
down salaries arid pensions, increasing the
sales tax from 24 to 5 p.c. and the primage
duty from 4 to 10 p.c., it expects to save
or make another nine millions, thus reducing
the gap to 44 millions. For its plan in
general it will have an easy win in Parlia-
ment ; but it may have to modify some of
its pension-reduction and tax proposals.
The external debt of Australia is more
than half our problem ; but it does not get
half our attention. It is that debt which
has robbed us of more than half our gold
and is robbing us now of another five mil-
lions ; and it is that debt which no amount
of note-printing or tax-gathering or pension-
cutting or salary-reduction will pay. To
keep our foreign debts paid and make it
possible to renew our foreign loans on rea-
sonable terms we must export staple pro-
ducts ; and the trouble there is that our
costs are too high. To get them down we
must reduce our costs of living; and you
can’t do that by increasing the sales tax
and the primage duty on materials neces-
sary for local manufacture.
The Executive Council keeps passing “regu-
lations” to give a monopoly of waterside jobs
to a section that votes Labor, and the Senate
disallows them by a large tnajority. Then the
Executive Council passes them again, and
so on. The Senate is elected by the people;
the body which has set itself up as a Third
Chamber, with power to pass “regulations”
in secret session and overrule the Second
Chamber, is not. The Senate has a distinct
advantage over the House of Reps, in being
almost wholly independent of the party
machine. So the worst party-machine bosses
regard it as a nuisance, and do their worst
to bring it into disrepute.
“Comrades” who are for bilking the public
creditor on the Lang plan were notified in
the “Labor Daily” that “no printing or
advertisements from candidates relating to
CONVERT TO ECONOMY: “Yes, I had to take
pore old Andy Lysaght’s resignation—
it means five hundred quid saved"
the Labor pre-selection ballots” would “be
received unless accompanied by cash. No
new accounts will be opened.” In other
words, they mustn’t extend the Lang plan
to the Lang paper.
Last week, as secretary of the Sydney
Labor Council, Garden (imp.) got bail for
Communists arrested during an anti-eviction
riot at Bankstown in which a police-
inspector’s skull was fractured —other Com-
munists had fortified a building at Newtown
in readiness for a second clash with the law.
The week before, as Alderman Garden, right-
hand man of Lang, whose Government is re-
sponsible for police action, he was chased to his
room in the Trades Hall by Communists, and
only saved from a fractured skull or worse by
police action. The dual role would embarrass
some men, but Garden (imp.) is adaptable
or nothing. Ho is capable Of bolting into a
police station with a ravening mob of “com-
rades” on his heels, and denouncing his
saviours later as “hired bludgeoners of capi-
talism.”
Having been allowed to retain his Health
portfolio for 10 days after his defeat in
Melbourne North, Beckett can now claim
to have been a member of the longest-lived
Vic. Labor Ministry. Elmslie’s lasted 16
days, Prendergast’s four months and Hogan’s
(the first) IS months and two days; on the
day of Beckett’s exit the second Hogan Min-
istry had been in 18 months and four days.
llow much longer it will last will depend
upon what it will stand from the Opposi-
tion.
A shipment of Russian
timber arrived in Sydney from
Vladivostock the other day,
and the Government pondered
whether the goods should be
allowed to land. But, said the
sententious Scullin in the end,
we don’t know for sure
whether slave conditions exist
in the Soviet Republic, there
being so much cross-talk about
it; so all he could do was
to follow Britain and let the
goods in. That, there is a dif-
ference between Britain, a
Freetrade country whose idea
is that the cheaper it can buy
goods the better, and Protec-
tionist Australia didn’t seem
to occur to Mr. Scullin. Quite
a lot of things don't occur to
Mr. Scullin. Still, if there
isn’t forced labor in the Soviet
Republic, why did the Repub-
lic lately arm its Amtorg
Trading Co. with a certificate
that a recent shipment of
timber to Providence (U.S.A.)
came from outside the area of
such labor? So the timber
comes in to Australia, though only 10 p.c.
of Australian mills can get work.
The inflationists, who arc not dead yet
by any means, ought, to take a look at that
shipload of timber which arrived from Russia
the other day. The men who handled it
found that most of the wharf work was
done by young women, of whose morals, in-
cidentally, they speak most highly—how they
found out The Bulletin didn’t inquire.
Also, it is admitted that women are taking
the place of men in vast agricultural dis-
tricts, the men being required for forest and
mine labor—every village is bound to supply
a certain labor team. This is all to get
goods for foreign export: in other words,
to raise capital for industrial development.
The men who govern the Soviet aren’t such
fools as to think that this capital can be
supplied by the printing press. The Soviet
is really teaching Australia a most impor-
tant lesson.
Queensland was the first State in the field
with legislation embodying the _ Premiers -
conference plans. It consists of a bill ratifying
the loan-conversion agreement, another to
permit trustees to convert loan holdings, a
debtors’ relief bill and a measure dealing
with cuts in State pensions—retired Judges
and others drawing pensions fixed by Parlia-
ment are to lose 20 p.c. A clause of the
Debtors’ Relief Bill provides for the con-
stitution of a tribunal before which mort-
gagors may summon mortgagees if the latter
decline to reduce rates of interest. fixed be-
fore the depression and the fall in money
values. A special session was summoned
to dispose of this programme, and members
will meet again in July.
The N.S.W. Fair Rents Act is to be
“amended” by the insertion of a clause
designed “to relieve unemployed threatened
with eviction.” The real object is to prevent
further Communist outbreaks by penalising
people, often poor, who own house pro-
perty; and it won’t be achieved. “We are
not protesting against the bashers of Bavin,
but against the bludgeoners of Lang!” said
the speakers who incited the Newtown riot.
In other words if they are denied eviction
riots, shop riots or some other variety
will suit. The Langites are paying the
penalty of past demagoguery. They are stul-
tified as preservers of law and order by their
attacks on law and order.
One trouble about the reduction of in-
terest on our internal loans is that it will
not add one farthing to the wealth of the
country; and it is only with wealth —real
wealth—we can pay our external bills for
interest, etc. This outside debt can there-
fore only be paid by increasing our produc-
tion for export, and that means working
at reduced costs. The only alternative is
to go broke and swindle our British and
American creditors.
The primage duty has been put up to 10
p.c.: it began as a modest 2 p.c., was
doubled, and now jumps 6 p.c. It may be
easy to collect; but it is the last resort of
clumsy finance. It means that the same tax
is levied on superfluous gewgaws and the
raw material of Australian factories; the 4
p.c. has prevented many lines from being
made in Australia, and the 10 p.c. will
knock out more. In its crude form it is a
plan for adding to unemployment and reduc-
ing other tax-collections. Yet it could easily
be made comparatively innocuous by differ-
entiating between material required in Aus-
tralian industries and all other goods.
Exchange on our overseas debt is at the
present rate costing us just on 10 millions;
and that has to come out of taxation. There-
fore reduction of exchange rate to par would
at once rid us of about 10 millions of an-
“Ill-treat women, my dear Scullineki? Why, do I not
knit her a pair of stockings while she merely
loads timber or works the farm!”
nrial deficit. There is only one way of bring-
ing that about: by exporting enough sale-
able goods to pay all our foreign bills —for
interest, imports and everything else. The
only reason we are not increasing our output
of wheat and other exportable things is that
costs are too high: which means that reduc-
tion of costs is our only hope of solvency.
Actually we could make the rate of interest on
our conversion loan 1 p.c. and still go bung.
War pensions cost £7,897,000 last year;
old-age and invalid pensions £10,791,000.
Australia is bound by the most sacred of
contracts to care for the widows and child-
ren of its fallen soldiers, and for ex-Diggers
who are blind and maimed and broken, and
their dependants. But it never undertook to
pay £1 or even 17s. fid. a week, as a perma-
nent obligation, to old-age pensioners, many
of whom have families able to support them.
The old-age pension was 10s. a week till
nearly the end of 1916. If it were made
15s. instead of 17s. 6d., as proposed, expen-
diture would be reduced by another two mil-
lions or thereabouts; and with the primage
duty dropped (as it could be), 15s. would
be at least equal in purchasing power to £1
in 1929.
In the Labor Government’s time selectors
taking up land for mixed farming in Queens-
land had to accept perpetual leases and found
the securing of advances, a difficulty, mort-
gagors callously preferring freehold security.
The Moore Government gave them the right
to become freeholders. The other day con-
versions of 1,735,449 acres were approved,
close on 4000 occupiers exercising their
options. Leases are still being taken up, but
mostly by men to whom the first payment is
a consideration, and who intend to convert
when they can afford it.
“The N.S.W. Nationalists have lost Upper Hunter
to the Country-party man, Brown, and indignantly
declare that he had ‘no right to contest a Nationalist
seat.’ Their leader, Bavin, protests that ‘Nationalism
still stands with its door wide open to any party.’ ”
Passing Party: “If he wants callers he’ll
have to sack that butler.”
One of Westralia’s Federal members re-
commends farmers in suitable parts of his
State to grow tobacco, saying that “no other
primary-producing industry m Australia
holds out such inducements. ’ J-ms. wasn t
the case when “the margin of Protection was
inadequate,” but in a happy moment the
Government “decided to reduce the excise
duty to 2s. 4d. per lb. and to increase the
import duty to ss. 21b. per lb., which com-
pletely altered the position”
The effect has been immediate apd definite.
Prices which for many years were unsatisfactory
have suddenly jumped to the vicinity ot 4s. per
pound, and the manufacturers cannot secure any-
thing like the quantity of leaf required. The whole
of the tobacco-growing areas have been scoured
by competitive buyers. This year production was
increased by 44 per cent., but it is still enoimously
below requirements. The demand is unlimited.
The Bulletin is glad to print this testi-
mony to “the highly valuable character of
the industry under the new duties,” and to
welcome one more convert from Cobdenism.
For the enthusiast is Prowse, member for
Swan.
Tunnecliffe, the Vic. Chief Secretary, is
contemplating legislation to compel motor-
cyclists to take out third-party risks. The
young men who fly about on the two-wlieeled
affairs are usually more richly endowed with
high spirits than road sense, and are
directly responsible for many accidents and
indirectly responsible for a good many more.
The public hospitals repair most of the
human wreckage free of cost, and their direc-
tors are growing restive in these hard times.
Sterner measures will certainly have to
be taken with speed maniacs. Though thou-
sands of licenses were turned in during the
latter half of 1930, and the roads should
have been that much less dangerous, 358 per-
sons were killed and 7203 persons in-
jured in motor-vehicle accidents in N. S.
Wales, 272* and 3757 in Victoria, 76
and 1280 in Queensland —706 slain and
12,240 hurt in three States. And there
may have been more; the grim record is re-
stricted to “accidents known to the police
which occurred in public streets.” Statis-
tics from the other three States are for the
year to June 30, 1930 : 71 persons were
killed and 757 injured in Westralia, 64 and
1000 in South Aus., 32 and 651 in Tas-
mania. These figures are appalling, and the
country is the poorer for them, apart from
the personal suffering and sorrow. Of course,
speed maniacs are responsible for only a
portion of the dreadful annual lists, but
they are rarely punished when captured, and
hardly ever with severity.
“N.S. Wales whentgrowers, alarmed at the pro-
posal for a Government-controlled pool, have formed
a defence association.”
“Why the gun, Mr. Wheaty?”
“I hear the blokes that shut the Savings
Bank want to help me to sell my
wheat.”
The High Court, in cases of criminal
appeal at least, surely ought to be constituted
so as to make a stalemate decision impossible.
Such a decision was given when four Judges
heard the appeal of Edwards, the Adelaide
M.L.A., against his sentence of five years’
hard labor. Two Judges ruled that the
appeal should be allowed, and two that it
should be dismissed, so the judgment of the
Full Court stands. If the rule in such cases
operated in favor of the appellant there
would be less to cavil at, for then the pri-
soner would get the benefit of the doubt,
and doubt must exist when a Bench is
equally divided. But the rule need never be
resorted to if there were an odd number ot
Judges. Edwards is trying to carry the case
to the Privy .Council, and meanwhile Adel-
aide is virtually without one of its three
members.
“Sol M.”: Jacky Tommy Lang, expound-
ing some of the benefits of his wonderful
“plan,” said they would come to pass as
surely as the sun would rise to-morrow. Then
the sun didn’t rise next day, or the sub-
sequent day, or the previous day, which might
be a way the universe had of showing its
opinion of Jacky Tommy. All that happened
was that the earth went on revolving as
usual so that the sun became visible each
morning.


SOCIETU
and it's
printed with
WIMBIE'S INKS
AN OLD MASTER.
“You have a -picture in the window by a Mr. Rembrandt, marked thirty-five shillings.
I suppose it is a print?”
“No, Ma’am, it is an original — that’s why the price is thirty-jive shillings.”
“Bildad”: I would like to say a few earnest
words to bishops and others about the Lost
Ten Tribes of Israel, a subject which has
somehow wandered into your pages. There
never was any such person, speaking in the
sense that the figures are all wrong. Old
squatter Jacob had a dozen sons, whose
families became known as the Twelve Tribes,
The brightest son, Joseph, didn’t squat, but
became an estate and financial agent to a
foreign king. For some reason his name was
kept out of the list of tribes as shown on
the map, the names of his two sons being
inserted instead, so for political purposes or
pretences there were Thirteen Tribes. But
Levi never appeared on the map,. being
apparently sentenced to be a sort of itinerant
parson all his days, and that made the tribes
a dozen again. Simeon vanished early, being
under the curse of father Jacob (he cursed
Levi, the great-grandfather of Moses, at the
same time), so there were 11 fixed and per-
ceptible tribes. To make 10 available for
being Lost (as Judah and Benjamin survive
and discount the promissory note to this day),
Levi, the wandering clergyman, must have
been carried away at the dispersion
(721 8.C.). But so far from being dispersed
a Levite was alive and in good working order
centuries later, to figure as a haughty and
uncharitable cuss in a parable. Perhaps the
Ten Lost Tribes have been a miscalculation
all these years.
■J, * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Outside the Government
Savings Bank, Sydney,. I saw a waiting
group, from which a whiskered old chap de-
tached himself to inquire whether the bank
was closed for lunch, and would it open
again at two o’clock? Amazed queries elicited
the information that the family, which had
some funds in the institution, was taking
its annual holiday, and was quite uninformed
about the bank closing. “Don’t you read"
the papers?” I asked. “Only the murders
and divorces,” was the reply.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Th£ cables state that Strath-
cona’s Horse had to be called out to quell
unemployed rioting in Western Canada. This
is a militia regiment founded on the contin-
gent raised by Lord Strathcona for the South
African War. If the militia are anything
like their active-service voerloopers, I pity
the rioters. Though many of them came from
the N.-W. Mounted Police, the regiment was
largely recruited from cowboys on the Cal-
gary cattle ranches, and a harder lot of citi-
zens never slung a rifle against the Boers.
They hanged all the male members of a
household for shooting one of their patrols
who had called for a drink of water. They
burned the farm in addition, and shot
every beast. There was the devil to
pay and “Iv.” to face over the affair, but the
“outfit,” as they used to call themselves, stood
pat, and “K.” had to let the matter drop.
* * * *
“Zabut”: I well remember the concern
amongst the Light Horse units for the fate
of their horses when the war ended (B.
10/6/’3l). Chauvel was as determined as
any trooper that Gyppos and Arabs should
get no chance of making miserable those
useful lives, and comprehensive orders con-
cerning the disposal of troop horses were
issued to all regiments. Horses over 12 years
were classed “C” ; others were scheduled “A”
or “B,” according to condition. “B” and “C”
horses were ordered to be destroyed, but “A”
horses were taken over as remounts for the
Indian Army, and permission was given for
the transfer of steeds to friends in that army.
There my faithful Waler found another boss,
and rewarded him with a win in a £2OO
steeplechase at Beirut.
$ $ $ $
“Taltingan”: The country west of the
Darling has not known itself lately. Most
times it is a wilderness of dust and sand and
saltbush; for months past, wherever there
has been a bit of clay, it has been a bog,
dotted at long intervals by cars and motor
trucks and mud-caked men trying to dig
their charges out. There is no get-away for
the water on these plains: when a half-inch
falls it collects on the claypans and turns
them into lakes. One of these nightmares on
the track between Broken Hill and Tiboo-
hurra is 12 miles long and a good day’s
journey. Plenty of times the stations up
in “the corner” have been short of supplies
because even camels could not get through ;
this year, several out as far as Innamincka,
in South Aus., have pulled in their belts
because the trucks were bogged on the road.
It has given the airmen a few r extra jobs,
They do some things out there that -would
interest Paddy Nolan and other early pros-
pectors if they get news of such things where
they are. A man was hurt, at Tibooburra
lately. A doctor and the man’s father flew
up from Adelaide to Broken Hill (320
miles) in the early morning; hopped on to
Tibooburra after a fill-up ; carried the patient
aboard and landed him at the Broken Ilill
hospital just before dark (it took Burke and
Wills seven dreadful weeks to cover about
the same distance over much the same track).
TRUE—TOO TRUE!
“You needn’t worry about me, Susannah. I’ll get home safe and sound.”
“Your chief anxiety after these club dinners seems to be to get home safe and
soundless.”
And down at Menindie, where Burke and
Wills had their first depot, the late Neville
Il'owse’s son and another young flier, not
liking the look of the landing ground and
thinking it was too far out of the township,
anyway, landed in the main street, taxied up
to the village bowser, refilled, turned her
round, and lifted her off without any trouble.
* * * *
“Plaza Toro” : The Spanish Republic, as
such new-broom institutions almost invariably
do, has abolished hereditary titles, officially
at all events. But even in republics, such
intangible distinctions are apt to linger. The
Spanish nobility differs from most others in
that it is not entirely based on place-names.
There are, for instance, a. Duke of the Victory,
a Marquess of the Royal Gratitude, and a
Count of the Second of May. It never seems
to have occurred to any English sovereign or
Prime Minister that it would be just as easy
to create a Baron of Whit Monday as of
Passfield Corner. Some day, possibly, when
Britain gets a Cabinet of Clydesiders, a
rugged democrat like Jack Jones w'ill be
raised to the peerage as Earl of the First of
April; and the end of the House of Lords
will be in sight.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The death of a fitter in the
Brisbane tramways is a fresh testimony to
the need of elementary instruction in elec-
tricity in the schools. Desirous of doing his
stomach and nerves good by galvanic treat-
ment he filled a tub with water, got in it
and then took in liis hand a naked wire con-
nected with the lighting installation. If
the fitter had ever seen a simple experiment
in electrolysis he would have known that
water is an excellent conductor, and, in
conjunction with a metal tub, makes a per-
fect earth, unless the combination is insu-
lated by being placed on a rubber mat or
something of the sort.
jjt *!- V
“Pawang”: The resurrection from the
dead of a man whose heart had stopped beat-
ing happened in Melbourne the other day,
and the surgical miracle is so commonplace
nowadays that it is hardly worth reporting.
But it is worth recalling that the Speck
holds the honor of being the home of the
first successful attempt. It w r as in 1906
that Dr. Ramsay opened the abdominal w T all
of a patient who had collapsed under an
anaesthetic, and by massaging the heart
enabled its owner to face once more the
trials of existence.
* * :!c *
“Tiny Tim” : Westralia had another man
of vast avoidupois 30 years ago who was
as much in the public eye as solicitor Frank
Harney (B. 17/6/’3l) ; in fact, they were
generally bracketed when the conversation
turned on the registering capacities of weigh-
ing'machines. This was John de Baun, who
made a pot of money at Broken Ilill. got
through it, and started at the foot of the
commercial ladder when Coolgardie broke out
by selling hot pies of his own compounding
to gaunt prospectors and famished mining
experts. John reaped the reward that his
industry and enterprise deserved; the pie
money enabled him to climb into the pub-
licans’ ranks, and before many years he was
running the best hotel in Perth, and paying
£lOO a week in rent therefor. Like many
citizens who have galloped to flesh, the
attorney and the Boniface were both addicted
to vociferous snoring o’ nights, which made
them a source of much perturbation to rail-
way conductors oil the Perth-Kulgoorlie
express, on which they were frequent travel-
lers. John’s, other specialty was a high-
pitched, flute-like voice, which contrasted
incongruously with his immense bulk. He
was a kindly soul; did anyone ever .know a
man built on Falstaffian lines who wasn't?
“Gay Go Up”: I was moved to read
in a Sydney paper the other day that a
witness in what modern journalism likes to
call an “underworld case” had whipped off
her shoe and hurled it at another lady. The
practice once had a vogue in certain circles in
the Old Country, and not even the sacred
Empire promenade, then in its zenith, or the
restaurants frequented by the frail sisterhood
and their admirers, were neutral ground when
eyes flashed and lips spoke wrath to lips
that retaliated with something worse. Some-
times the shoe was used as a striking weapon
instead of a missile, the toe being employed as
a handle; the high wooden heel was capable
of inflicting a lot of damage.
$ * * *
“Ecclesiastes”: Queensland recently wit-
nessed an unusual ceremony—the holding of
a burial service in Moreton Bay, where
two Brisbane youths are supposed to
have been drowned. Their clothes were
found on the beach, but no other trace
was given up by those shark-infested waters.
Their death having been legally “presumed,”
the service was conducted by two padres
from a launch in the bay opposite the spot
where the clothing was found. It is said
to have been the first happening of the
kind in Australia, though services have been
held in other parts of the world, especially
in connection with submarine accidents.
* * * *
“Inky”: The late King Hussein, of the
Hedjaz, was something more than a mere
Oriental potentate (B. 17/6/’31) ; he owned
and edited a newspaper in which local mer-
chants and captains of industry, including the
owners of the motor-caravans from the Red
Sea coast to Mecca, were expected to take
considerable advertising space. King Hussein
wrote all his own leaders and corrected the
proofs. In addition, he had a store for selling
holy relies and the Arabian equivalent of
patent medicines, including a small species
of lizard which, when dried, is a talisman
against all kinds of diseases. These he
specially advertised in his journal as the
only genuine ones, warning buyers to make
sure his seal-signature was stamped on each.
a: :|: * *
“Kerys”: The local soap-box orator was
holding forth at the corner where I waited
for my ’bus. I had heard most of his argu-
ments before, but the opening of the final
section of liis discourse appealed to me.
“Now, ladies and gentlemen,” he said
earnestly, “I want you to consider the future
in retrospect.”
* ® * H:
“Automac”: The firm in whose garage I am
employed advertised for a charwoman. The
factory is a hundred yards further down the
road; hence applicants for jobs often come to
the garage instead of the main gates. Thus
it happened that, entering the day’s running.
I was suddenly arrested by an emphatic
“ ’Ere!” uttered in a voice vibrant with pas-
sion and possibilities. Looking up I beheld
a stout, elderly and perspiring female, wear-
ing a determined expression and a beflowered
hat at a rakish angle. Grasping her umbrella
at the ready, she advanced unsteadily to
my desk and demanded “Are you the bloke
wot advertised for a woman?”
THE COHUNA MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The human skull unearthed at Gohuna (Vic.)
in 1926 is pronounced by eminent scientists to be in
the same prehistoric class as the Java man and the
Pekin man. Professor Osborne, of Melbourne, thinks
that the Cohuna man could only have made a
guttural noise.”
He dwelt by the Murray, appearances show,
Some a;ons and cycles and ages ago,
A sample of man before talking began—
’Twixt him and old Adam there’s none who
can span
The millions of years of lacuna.
He wasn’t the sort that a highbrow you’d
call,
In fact he had darned little forehead at all,
Yet I doubt if it lessened existence’s joys
That the nearest to speech was a guttural
noise
For that primitive man of Cohuna.
With other enforcedly taciturn chaps
He hunted the plesiosaurus, perhaps,
Or sought to encompass the mammoth’s
demise.
And I’ll bet what you please that he shinned
up the trees
Or streaked for his cave in a hurry
When the sabre-toothed tiger came snooping
around,
Though he couldn’t convey his impressions
in sound—
Hadn’t even a “damn” in his vocable box
When he made for the timber or fled to the
rocks,
The long-ago man of the Murray.
He fought and he feasted, it’s safe to sup-
pose,
And stuck to his cobbers and fell on his
foes;
And at intervals wooed, you may safely
conclude,
Some flapper he found in amenable mood
When an antediluvian Luna
Benignantly beamed on the pair from above.
And though he’d no words to envisage his
love,
Those palatal grunts, I suspect, were as
good
As Romeo’s rhapsodies. She understood
The tale of the man of Cohuna.
He bided his hour and he wended his way,
This being in the dawn of humanity’s day.
If his primitive life was all rapine and
strife,
With none of our modern amenities rife,
It was free of one notable worry.
There couldn’t be spouting that sickness
and cloys
When the only expression was guttural
noise;
And if Nature was redder in tooth and in
fang,
At least you were spared one unbearable
pang.
He hadn’t to listen to Scullin or Lang,
That fortunate man of the Murray!
N.S.W.
T. THE It.


“Nakhoda”: The capricious influence of
General Depresh can be conveniently studied
at public auctions. There are two forces
operating. People who have been ruined
want to exchange material property for bank-
notes to meet their present necessities. Those
who are still well-lined and take the threat
of inflation seriously want to exchange their
banknotes for material property. Con-
sequently a very serviceable bedstead may
go for next to nothing, while an alleged
piece of antique silver may fetch a higher
price than a similar article costs in the
shop adjoining. Women are a godsend to the
auctioneer these days. Their desire to get
the better of each other makes for spirited
bidding. At a sale in Melbourne the
auctioneer said: “What am I offered for
this beautiful inlaid cabinet?” No answer,
“What about three pounds?” said the man
with the hammer persuasively. “Four!”
promptly cried a feminine bidder, looking
defiantly at a rival of her own sex. There
was no further bid, so the lady got the
article.
* * * *.
“C.Q.”: Some of the people who castigate
the Australian for the way the incorrigble
blighter talks lack the chief qualification for
the task of linguistic reformer—namely, the
sense historic. The latest is Miss Alice
Smith, lecturer in voice production at the
Teachers’ Training College, Melbourne, who
THE MARRIAGE MILL.
“Muriel married a coffee-planter, didn’t she?”
“Yes! And soon found grounds for divorce.”
condemns the use of such expressions as
“good-oh” and “right-oh.” It would help
if the lady would explain why they
are less defensible than cognate expres-
sions used by Englishmen. During 20 years’
sojourn amongst my English brothers I have
seen dozens of such ejaculations become
fashionable and then be discarded. I once inter-
viewed a British official in Shanghai, and the
following dialogue ensued: “I am an Aus-
tralian.” “Quaite.” “I want a passport for
Russia.” “Quaite.” “I am told that I must
have a letter from you to the Russian Con-
sul.” “Quaite.” “Will you be so good as to
give me one?” “Quaite, quaite.” Fifteen
years later I encountered the same official
under a punkah in Ceylon, and our conversa-
tion went this way: “I am an Australian.”
“£eat.’’ “I! want a visa for Italy.” “Great
?reat. I am told that I must have a lettei
from you to the Italian Consul. Great,
“Will you be so good as to give me one?”
“Great, great, great.” In the interval
between the “quaite” and the “great” the
Empire had won the biggest war in. history,
* * * *
“R.V.”: The “stinging reproof” which,
according to “L. 1.8.” (B. 10/6/’3l), “Shep.”
administered to me concerning my views on
horse memorials fell on stony ground, so
to speak. I didn’t notice it was .stinging,
but I did notice that both my would-be
castigators missed the point of my argu-
ment. It is mere sentimentality to speak
of dumb animals as “four-footed) mates” and
“brothers in arms,” when the said animals
were conscripted against their will and
knowledge in a man-made war. Mates are
voluntary companions—not slaves led to the
slaughter, and it will be rank hypocrisy to
give ourselves a good conscience about it
by putting uji a statue to the victims on Mel-
bourne’s Shrine of Remembrance. All ani-
mals, including man, live by devouring one
another, and we might as logically put up
monuments to the bullocks slain daily at the
abattoirs.
* * * •
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide is still discussing a
small but energetic cyclone. A funnel-
shaped cloud, plainly observed and photo-
graphed from the University in the un-
touched city proper, developed in North
Adelaide, unroofed buildings in Brougham-
place, etc., including the Blind Institution,
neatly avoided the Children’s Hospital and
the Zoo, took a shot at St. Peter’s College
and a near-by distillery, and then died away.
* * * *
“X.S.” : There are fashions in the excuses
given for being caught in licensed premises
after hours. The one in vogue in Melbourne
at the moment is that accused was drinking
“under doctor’s orders.” The number of
physicians who prescribe alcohol in the form
of beer is astonishing. Recently the mono-
tonous chorus was broken by a man who
told the beak that he was drinking because
he was thirsty. It is all waste of breath, of
course. The Act doesn’t allow of any excuse,
however plausible,
* * * *
“Nextplease”: “2nd Divvy” (B. 10/6/’3l)
questions whether round-the-year out-of-door
bathers are conspicuously healthy because of
their Spartan adherence to that habit; his ver-
sion j s that they couldn’t do it unless they
were markedly robust, and that anyone who
adopts the former explanation is confusing
cause and effect. It is a common error
enough, and keen students of human nature
often take advantage of it. The fashionable
London hairdresser of a past era always
took special pains to have an assistant with
a magnificent head of natural hair behind
the counter where restorers and such things
W ere sold. The customer was only too prone
to think—and indeed was often assured —
that the splendid growth was evidence of
the efficacy of the firm’s wares; actually,
of course, it was the hair that qualified its
possessor for the job. I knew a man who,
on the representations of one or other of
the tribe, had spent scores of pounds on
alleged remedies for baldness. He only de-
sisted when he sat near the then Prince of
Wales (King Edward to be) at a banquet
and noticed that the royal cranium had
even less thatch than his own. “If with all
the Prince’s money and influence and assi-
duous care for his appearance he can’t pre-
vent himself from going bald,” he mused,
“what.chance is there for me? None.” And
he resigned himself to the inevitable,
* * * *
“ Jeames” : Few realise the devastating
blow dealt by our depression to that ancient
British institution the Younger Son. Under
the U.K. primogeniture system practically
all the family cash is inherited by the eldest
son. The others must make money or marry
it. In this connection Lord Burghley laid
down a salutary rule nearly four centuries
ago, and it has been followed by the best
families ever since, where practicable: “If
thy estate be good, match near at home and
at leisure; if weak, far off and quickly.”
In pre-war days Australia was a matri-
monial Golconda for A.D.C.’s, R.N. officers,
young Anglo-Indians on leave, and so on.
The sons and daughters of most moneyed
Australian families share and share alike,
which used to mean that the average society
girl could support a Younger Son in the
style to which he had been accustomed. The
R.A.N. put the first check on the old
FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED.
DAD: “Get up, Gordon, here's a letter to post. Mum’s got twins, and I’m applyin’
fer the paternity bonus. Nothin’ like gettin’ yer claim in early.”
arrangement. Then came cheaper Gover-
nors, and ipso facto less important staffs.
Now with the R.A.N. —or what is left of it
—almost completely Australianised, with a
locally-produced G.-G., and with minor civil
servants or squireens at most of the State
Government Houses, there are few socially-
eligible Britons in the marriage market; and
if there were more, what with the slump. in
primary products, reduced industrial divi-
dends and penal taxation, they wouldn’t be
able to find heiresses. The records show that
in the peak decade 1910-20 an average of 25
Aussie heiresses, or near-heiresses, married
Younger Sons each year. For 1920-30 we
had the derisory average of five heiresses
p.a.; and, with the first half of our current
matrimonial year to all intents and pur-
poses over, not a single local heiress of the
1931 quota has gone overseas!
* $ * *
“Cinna”: The fact that the site picked for
the Lawson Memorial is
“eminently suited for poetic
contemplation” (B. 17/6/’3l)
strikes me as a quaint reason
for setting Henry there. If he
ever indulged in that prelude to
poetic effort it certainly wasn’t
among sylvan scenes. Lawson
was anything but a Nature-
poet, such as Wordsworth; he
wrote almost entirely of human
beings, and such references to
the landscape as he permitted
himself were largely of a hos-
tile character. Had it been
otherwise, we should have lost
a quantity of ruggedly-sincere
verse and a deal of excellent
prose. A shrine on beautifully-
tended turf, among shrubs and
birds and flowers, might be eminently suitable
for (say) Kendall; but Lawson hardly seems
to fit into that environment.
* *
“R. Volt”: Vic. postal officials have been
congratulating themselves on an unexampled
feat of long-distance telegraphy. Carrier-
wave circuits were linked between Mel-
bourne. Sydney and Perth, so that messages
travelled back and forth several times, being
amplified by 80 repeaters. The amount of
synchronous adjustment of instruments
would seem to make the thing impossible, but
signals were received quite clearly after a
journey of 38,848 miles.
$ $ $ $
“D.”: Just before vaudeville took to its
deathbed animal acts breathed their last —
at any rate, so far as Australia was con-
cerned. Prominent S.P.C.A. members worked
the oracle by organising boycotts of shows
in which trained dogs, cats, etc., appeared.
Now the talkies are starring elaborate and
revolting dog films (“All Quiet on the K-9
Front” and “The Death of Rover” are
examples), and the humanitarians have gone
into action again. They won’t find this
battle nearly so easy as its predecessor, in
which other nations, and notably Britain,
co-operated to such purpose that Vienna and
Berlin, where the leading animal-trainers
operate, were driven to despair. There are
millions of Hollywood patrons in Asiatic,
and for that matter European, countries who
look on the sufferings of dumb creatures as
a good joke. So far as Australia is con-
cerned, the censors could do useful work.
This is a more important job from every
standpoint than fussing about the nood,
which bores most people, and particularly
young people, these undressed - days. Apart
from the fact that the susceptibilities
thousands of grown-ups are offended oy tnc
obvious misery of the dogs in pictures i
those mentioned above, their propag <
effect on children must be bad. .
schools are just beginning to get dennii:
results from their kindness-to-ammals teacn-
ings. While the censors are about it, tney
might also have a look at a Yew rodeo nims,
home and foreign. Bullfights no
advantage over some of them as rega ds>
senseless brutality.
“Nakh.”: It will require more than
“Equatoria’s” assurance (B. 27/5/ ! 31) to
convince me that the saucer lips of Central
African women were forced on them by the
men of the tribe to make them unattractive
to' Arab slave-traders. The slave trade, like
the origin of the custom, goes back long
before recorded history. Similar deforma-
tions which occur elsewhere permit of no
such explanation. The Dyak woman com-
presses her head, files her teeth and racks
her limbs with brass rings; the Chinese
woman squeezes her feet into the semblance
of a horse’s hoof, and the European female
gives her figure an hour-glass shape, because
it happens to be fashionable. The fashion
probably starts _in a mild form and the
competitive spirit produces the final exag-
gerated standard. Men are not immune from
similar vanities. Some 30 years ago high
collars and tight trousers came into vogue
in Adelaide; the former climbed to 3Jin.,
and trousers became as near skin-tight as
seemed possible. Then a celebrated Bean
Brummell appeared in Bundle-street wearing
a 4|in. collar and pants into which lii.s
tailor had sewn him. The craze thereupon
fell over of its own weight.
tl: * * *
“Whitehall”: Sydney, once so arrogantly
loan-proud that it barred street bands, seems
well on the way to becoming one of the
world’s mendicant cities. You can strike
more beggars, camouflaged and otherwise,
between Castlereagh and Macleay streets in
a day just now than you can on Rome’s
Piazza Rusticucci (once an alms-seekers’
paradise) in a month. Sydney’s mendicant
army is beginning to acquire regular pitches,
and to enlist women and children—two very
significant developments. The display of
mutilations is usually the next and final
stage. But I fancy Sydney will never be
an entirely satisfactory place for members
of a profession which is probably senior to
the one usually referred to as “the oldest
in the world.” Its main streets are too
narrow, and it has no spacious sidewalks
suitable for pavement artistry, such as Lon-
don’s Brompton-road and Knightsbridge.
Also, it has no central circuses, with the
possible exception of King’s Cross, where
leisurely shoppers may be intercepted, and
no gutters from which songs may be moaned
and matches and bootlaces offered, more or
less uninterruptedly. London has beggars
who arrive at “stands” in gutters, acquired
on the “longi temporis possessio” principle,
with the regularity and punctuality of busi-
ness men ; and their rights are respected by
’buses and taxis. It is sad to think what
would be done by the traffic to one who com-
menced business as a mendicant in a central
George- or Pitt-street gutter.
*Ji *!*-!• sjc
“Crusoe” : The question of shifting to some
more accessible spot the lonely islanders of
Tristan da Cunha —there are about 127 of
them, and apparently they lead a healthy if
rather monotonous existence—was raised in
the House of Commons the other day, not for
the first time. The island, it is pointed out,,
has no strategic or commercial value, and it
costs a lot to victual it and supply it with
an occasional mail. But the islanders don’t
want to go, and no British Government, it
seems, would care to apply compulsion.
After all, aerial transport may presently do
something for more remote specks of land
than this, if there are any. Tristan is pretty
well on a direct line between Cape Town
and Buenos Ayres, which may make it a
handy perching place for the aircraft of
the future.
CONVIVIAL RITES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At a deputation representing 2145 N.S.W. hotel-
keepers, which requested the Minister of Justice for
an extension of time to pay license fees, it was
pointed out that the prosperity of the bar trade
depended on surplus cash, of which there was now
practically none.”
The world is looking mighty pinched and
wan.
Our golden coins evanished long ago,
And now the humbler spending silver’s gone
That lavish hands upon the bar would
throw.
And many an honest Bung in wakeful woe
Tosses abed uneasily o’ nights,
Morosely ruminating apropos
The diminution of convivial rites.
Alack! There’s many a bottle rests upon
The shelf, and many a pump is working
slow,
And fewer Ilebes flutter hither and yon.
Is, then, our Austral thirst abating? No,
I wouldn’t like to venture that was so.
A likelier sequitur my pen indites.
Cause: Insufficiency of surplus dough.
Effect: Cessation of convivial rites.
Ah, happier he who vends the tea and scone
In times like these than Boniface and Co.,
The frequent shout of fellowship whereon
He counted, sunken to a murmur low.
Where is the spending silver? Where the
snow ,
Tliat spring eliminates from mountain
heights?
A score of gloomy evidences show
Thc intermission of convivial rites.
Bacchus, great god of chirping mirth, what
ho!
Befriend the band whose days depression
„ .... blights,
petitioners, if one may phrase it so,
Fur what no earthly judges may bestow,
The restitution of convivial rites.
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.


WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
wSKSto
y
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, room with breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double, all
less 10 p.c. if staying one week.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Inclusive board from 10/6
daily, or 65/- weekly, both nett.
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyon’s
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for reused tariff card.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq :
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL
The Australian Mutual Provident Society
has removed its Victoria Branch Office to new and commodious
premises,
419 & 425 COLLINS STREET
(corner Market Street), MELBOURNE.
T , , r x I Ordinary Department, Central 8927.
Telephones (as before) , Industrlal Department, Central 7924.
W. C. FISHER, Manager for Victoria.
EXPLOSIVES
ALL KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
iO-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITENS
W. A. Holman has his eye on a Parlia-
mentary seat again ; he is one of the three
candidates for Nationalist selection in the
Federal division of Martin, where young
Graham Pratten was preferred to him three
years ago, and from which Eldridge is
retreating. It is 33 years since Holman
was first returned to the Ma State’s
Assembly, and 11 since he disappeared from
it, after having put up a long-distance record
for Premiership and a reputation seldom
exceeded anywhere as a Parliamentary strate-
gist. In the interval he has kept his voice
in good going order in the courts. He is 60
this year.
For 40 years Forbes-Wilcannia (N.S.W.)
has had an R.C. bishop who has never lived
at either place. Just after the diocese was
born Broken Hill boomed, so Dr. Dunne
pitched his camp where the big population
was, and the Bishop’s house has been there
ever since. Dr. Hayden, who followed the
pioneer, was made archbishop of Hobart
lately; his successor is Father Fox, of
Forbes, who was born 40 years ago at Broken
Hill, a few steps from his cathedral. That
adds another to the list of home-grown and
home-trained R.C. prelates, though Father
Fox, mostly educated in Sydney, had the top
brick of his priestly learning put on at Rome.
The discovery of the body of J. H. Ekins,
’ strapped ill his ’plane at the foot of a stand
of great messmate trees in the Tallarook
(Vic.) ranges, gives the probable clue to the
fate of the Southern Cloud, which vanished
with its crew and passengers in the same
weather and in the same vicinity. Ekins s
machine was found pointing in a direction
that indicated that he was on his right
course between Melbourne and Albury.
There was evidence to show that he was
flying blind at a high, speed, and that there
was nothing wrong with his engine. What
probably happened was that lie was holding
a sufficient elevation above sea level for ordi-
nary purposes but miscalculated the height
of the mountain that stopped him. The
search from the air failed to locate the
tragedy, and an Italian rabbit-trapper
stumbled on it. The ’plane was half a
mile from fences and open Country.
Lionel Laughton Hill, the S. Aus. Pre-
mier, who has been turning things over with
Scullin and Lang trying to find a scheme
for re-starting the N.S.W. Government Sav-
ings Bank, is one of the boys the farm
couldn’t hold. His father had a place at
Maitland, on “the Peninsula,” one of the
S.A. PREMIER HILL.
safest districts in S. Aus.; but Lionel came
to town, and before long w’as secretary of
the Tramway Employees’ Union. That car-
ried him into politics as M.L.A. for East
Torrens, a handy suburban district, in 1916;
but he shifted to Pt. Pirie, Labor’s strong-
est country stronghold, two years later; and
became Premier a couple of years ago.
George Bell, who was printer for the
“Argus” for 60 years, closed an active life
at 76 the other day. li'e was born in Mel-
bourne, and was apprenticed to his paper
in 1871. A son was Commissioner for
Native Affairs in Papua.
Labor M.L.C. Simon Hickey, who is
battling to secure justice for the shareholders
of George A. Bond’s (in liquidation), is a
swarthy, rotund person, who bubbles over
with good fellowship and enthusiasm for
Australia. Bush-born and a saddler by
trade, he entered the N.S.W. Assem-
bly in 1912 on the death of his father-
in-law, J. R. Dacey, the man- who
founded the garden suburb of Daceyville.
He represented Alexandria and Botany for
SIMON HICKEY.
10 years, and was Speaker for a week —a
short-term record in the chair. ; Now from
the benches of, the Upper I loose he takes a
more tolerant and broad-minded, view of
affairs. Never a man to make friends with
the larrikin element in the party, a
strong ‘opponent of pony-racing, and with
temperance leanings, he naturally hasn’t
advanced politically, as far as he other-
wise. might have done. He was one
of the first men in Australia to try to estab-
lish the modem silk-spinning industry ; hence
his interest in Bond’s.:
George Story,, who has gone to the reward
of all just men at the ripe age of 82, was
for many , years a notable .figure in
Queensland’s political and pastoral life.
He went there from Victoria 50 years
ago to manage a group of stations in the
Maranoa district which afterwards grew into
the Australian Pastoral Co. He entered Par-
liament in 1890 as member for Maranoa, a
seat he held for nine years, and will always
be remembered as having instituted the
itinerant-teacher system for the benefit of
bush children out of the reach of the fixed
schools. At that time he was manager in
Queensland for Cobb and Co.; later, he
founded the well-known wool and stock co. of
Sturnfels, Ltd. Story held the Royal Humane
Society’s Stanhope gold medal and the silver
medal for saving life, although he would
have been the last man in the world to speak
of it. A host of people, old and young, will
mourn the passing of a very fine gentleman.
Bob Williams, M.L.C., succeeds recently-
defeated Bill Beckett as a salaried Minister in
the Hogan Ministry (Vic.). He was pre-
viously an “honorary,” and his place as such
lias been filled by Dan McNamara, M.L.C.,
sec. of the Vic. A.L.P. executive. Mac.’s
acceptance of an honorary job, after he had
been a full-blown Minister in the Prender-
gast Government in 1924, was a bit of a
surprise. He beat Disney by a small majo-
rity in the Caucus voting.
“Mudurup”: The late W. 11. Carpenter
(B. 17/6/’3l) had the uncommon experi-
ence —shared only by the late Judge Ewing
—of sitting in three different Australian
Parliaments, but he made no mark in any
of them. His most notable electoral per-
formance was winning the Fremantle
Federal division in 1903 from the an-
cient Groper Solomon; but lie was merely
profiting by the tremendous swing to
Labor that was taking place in West-
ralia at that time. Bill Hedges, whose
campaigning methods were of the crudest,
had little difficulty in outing Carpenter in
1907, and though the ex-railwayman pre-
sently found a .seat in the State Assembly
the conscription split left him on the wrong
side of the fence in a red-hot Labor con-
stituency. He was a broken man in his
later years, like many who have tried to
make a business of politics and found them-
selves thrown aside.
Ilughie Langwell, chairman of the Western
(N.S.W.) Land Board, which is being raked
fore and aft by a Royal Commission, had
dropped out of the public eye for over 20
years. Yet in the earliest days of the Labor
party Langwell cut a figure, though actu-
ally he wasn’t elected as a Labor member.
There probably never was a man who got
a longer job on the strength of shorter Par-
liamentary service. He was in the House
for only one term (1891-94), but during that
time was so obviously the man who knew
back-country conditions (he had been run-
ning a little news and ’bacea business at
Bourke), that when in the dawn of this
century the Western Land Board was
created to manage the old Western Division
lands, Hughie was engineered into the thou-
sand-a-year job of Labor representative:
later on Sammy Moore (an ex-Nationalist
Minister for Lands) joined him and the
chairman, C. .T. McMaster, an old Lands
Department surveyor. All his old colleagues
have dropped out; Hughie has hung on for
just on 30 years.
Bob Elliott, the Country-party Senator
who created a stir in Melbourne last week
by saying “he would welcome a shipment of
Soviet wheat and butter, in addition to the
present timber shipment, as nothing else
would wake Australia up to the Russian
menace,” had a good opportunity last year
to learn about Russia’s industrial policies.
Lord Beaverbrook made a friend of him, and
put information which the newspapers rarely
print at his disposal. Elliott is one of the
brainiest of the Senators, an Englishman, a
collector of Orpens and Augustus Johns, and
a son-in-law of Victorian journalism’s
G.0.M., Theodore Fink.
Among the multitude who have been im-
pelled of late to write on economics is Farn-
ham Maynard, whose “Economics and the
Kingdom of God” has been published in
Melbourne. Maynard isn’t much of an
economist, but he is quite a lot of other
things. lie is the inventor of a patent
window- and verandah-blind, and a director
of the co. which makes and sells it. Also
he is vicar of St. Peter’s in Melbourne. He
is a graduate (London) in engineering, but
not in theology, and before he went into the
church he put in a few years belting out ore
at Mt. Morgan.
Frank Clarke, who has already served
eight years as President of Vic. Uppish
House, has been re-elected unopposed for
another term of six years. Before taking
this perch in 1923 Frank was a Minister
under Bowser and Lawson for just on six
years. Edgar, who is Father of the House,
and who got a walkover for East Yarra
at the recent elections, was made Chairman
of Committees again ; he has held the post
since 1922.
The late Father Edmund Frost, rector of
Xavier College, Ivew (Vic.), was one of
the big men of the Jesuit order in Aus-
tralia. Under his guidance Xavier made
great strides both scholastically and in sport,
and Father Frost’s influence was just as
marked among old boys as those whom he
was still teaching. He was only 46, and if he
had lived he might have reached any position
in his order. The new college chapel, now in
course of construction, will be a monument
to him.
G. H. Mackay, who sits for Lilley (Q.)
in the Federal Parliament, can claim to
have a solid hold on his electorate, which
he has represented since the late Jacob
Stumm retired in 1917. Born at Copperfieid,
west of Rockhampton, he went with his
family to Gympie, where in due course
lie followed in dad’s footsteps as a
E. H. MAC KAY, of Lilley (Q.).
contractor. Before standing for Lilley
he sat for the now-abolished State elec-
torate of ‘ Gympic in the Parliament of
1912-15, and in 1916 was Mayor of
the old goldfield town, In Parliament his
contracting experience has brought him
appointments to the Committee of Works,
of which he was chairman in 1926-27.
“Hail Columbia” Hoover, President of the
U.S.A., is an old friend of Australia’s —lie
was mine-managing for Bewick Moreing in
Westralia and at Broken Hill 30 years ago.
In those days he had an almost superstitious
regard for the number 13, and apparently
still has, because he mentioned to Kitty
Russell-Jackson, who made this clay model
of him for The Bueeettn, that the Ameri-
U.S.A. President HOOVER.
can motto, ' I E Pluribus Unum,” contains
13 letters, and the American eagle has 13
feathers in each wing. There were 13 origi-
nal States in the Union, and when George
Washington raised the republican standard
he was saluted by 13 guns. He himself has
13 letters in his name (Herbert Hoover),
and there are 13 countries paying interest
to America. He passed his tariff bill on
June 13, 1930 —which again adds 13. Wood-
row Wilson also had 13 letters in his name,
and became President (after 13 years at
Princeton) <*n January 13, 1913.
The most ambitious hunting party that
has ever left Melbourne departed in the
Adelaide express the other day. It com-
prised C. J. Stanley Low, Dr. Stanley
Jamieson, H. Roland Pink, E. J. Kennor.
T. J. Hughes and A; JB. Lord, with E. Hard-_
ing, of the Commonwealth Railways, as
director. The expedition is armed to the
teeth, has a Fox Films cinema operator, a
chef and other supernumeraries aboard. It
will proceed to Alice Springs, where A. G.
Bond, of Bond’s Motor Services, will con-
duct it to the wilds of Arnhem Land ; there
the party will meet Harry Hardy, prince of
buffalo-hunters, and a corps of aborigines.
Ten days will be spent in slaughtering buf-
falo, crocodile and other wild game.
Norman Makin, Speaker of the Reps., who
has been a good deal in the public eye, was
born at Petersham (N.S.W.) 42 years ago, and
was trained in robust Labor views at Broken
Hill, where he spent his boyhood and learned
the trade of patternmaker. There is no
more deadly serious man in the Labor party,
and he is as much at home in a chapel pulpit
as behind the' mace.
“Teddy” (E. J.) Kavaiiagh, M.L.C., who
has suffered eclipse with the appointment of
E. U Magrath ,as Deputy Industrial Com-
missioner by the Lang Government, was
formerly secretary to the Sydney Labor
Council; he succeeded Jack Cochrane in the
billet when Cochrane became M.L.A. for
Darling Harbor. This established him as
an authority on industrial matters when he
was appointed a Leg. Councillor, and he
became Dooley’s Minister of Labor. In
his younger days Kavanagh enjoyed some
distinction as a boxer; it was as a toiler
in the tailoring trade that he first gained
prominence in trade-union matters.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 12 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a. period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when ihe Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR ERDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
.
■
■
You Don’t Save Money
That Way.
When you buy a substitute for a leather belt it
does not cost so much as the genuine article, but
then a substitute does not last so long or give the
same high efficiency in service that is guaranteed
with a Pioneer Leather Belt. Pioneer Belting elimi-
nates costly breakdowns and toss of power, and
carries our guarantee -of replacement should any
defect in quality of material or workmanship develop.
For many years of efficient trouble-free service and
true economy specify
PIONEER Leather Belting
Manufactured by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
J. C. Ludowici & Son., Ltd.,
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street,
South Melbourne.
West Australia:
Mr. Horace Summers,
9-11 Howard Street, Perth.
AGENTS:
Queensland:
Hoey Fry, Ltd.,
170 Edward Street,
Brisbane.
Tasmania:
Chas. Davis, Ltd.,
60 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
South Australia:
J. McKell & Sons,
129 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
New Zealand:
G. W. Arnold, Ltd.,
A.M.P. Chambers, Wellington.
DECREASED SALES
and IDLE CAPITAL
LARGE RETAILERS!
Are Your Sales Satisfactory?
Are you losing the earning value of
Capital tied up in a large amount of mer-
chandise unsold, with its further loss by
shrinkage and depreciation?
Does your advertising move goods,
stimulate and sustain public interest,
develop and multiply your customers and
create goodwill?
Your Sales volume will be made larger to
this NEW WAY of presenting goods to
the public at minimum Advertising cost.
It will be your profit to consult—
NEW WAY
C/o “Advertiser,” Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COIUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
19?.l 119.427 65,614 10 p.c. - 84,493 617,426
1922 237,039 65,641 15 „ „ 137,527 651.297
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares, £37,500.. 688,797
1923 230,833 65,324 15 p.c. - 145,027 709,279
1924 290,259 64,569 15 „ „ 145,027 789,942
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd. (S.A.), bought out.
Premiums on new shares, £186,113 976,055
Additions to reserves, £280,947.. 1,257.002
1925 372,313 63,346 15 p.c. = 212,592 1,353,377
Premiums on new shares, £187,500. . 1,540,877
1926 378,325 63,233 15 p.c. = 250,000 1,605,969
1927 373,377 63,091 15 „ „ 262,500 1,653,755
Premiums on new shares, £187,500. . 1,841,255
1928 374,847 62,967 15 p.c. = 287,500 1,865,635
Badgery Bros., Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
1929 381,572 62,925 15 p.c. = 300,000 1,884,282
Premiums on new shares, £199,543 .. 2,083,825
1930 253,465 62,646 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,074,644
Premiums on new shares, £457 .. 2,075,101
1931 177,529 62,553 5 p.c. = 120,000 2,070,077
The last season opened with wool averaging
£l3 12s. 2d. per bale; it had dropped to
£9 7s. 9d. in January, and the interim div.
was passed. Then the spring in exchange
and stronger competition at the sales, especi-
ally from Japan, lifted the figure to
£l4 3s. 2d. for March ; the average for the
11 months to date is £ll 7s. Bd. as against
£l3 ss. 9d. and £2l 11s. lOd. for the two
preceding seasons respectively. Sales and
shipments (339,730 bales) were 104,827
better, due to the previous year’s carryover;
actual receipts (277,820 bales) were 7796
lighter. There was a steady recession in
livestock and produce values ; also more than
half the £5,608,741 at which advances on
stock and station properties, etc., figured at
March 31 had been made on the basis of
values ruling since 1924. So, after provid-
ing for contingencies, gross profits were
£165,033 short of the 1930 figure, making
the slip over the last two years £283,487: —
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
£> £ £ £ £
1922.. 377,655 138,616 65,641 2000 171,398
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd., purchased.
1923.. 431,112 197,779 65,324 2500 165,509
1924.. 498,039 205,280 64,569 2500 225,690
Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, Ltd., purchased.
1925.. 806,413 429,100 63,346 5000 308,967
1926.. 846,050 462,725 63,233 5000 315,092
1927.. 855,272 476,894 63,091 5000 310,286
1928.. 889,060 509,213 62,967 5000 311,880
Badgery Bros., Ltd., purchased.
1929.. 914,201 527,629 62,925 5000 318,647
1930.. 795,752 539,787 62,646 2500 190,819
1931.. 630,714 450,685 62,553 2500 114,976
■"lncluding £25,000 drought exes.
A saving of £89,102 in exes, left the net
profit at 4.7 p.c. on average capital as
against 9.5, 15.9, 16.3, 17.7, 18.9, 21.8 and
23.3 p.c. back to 1924. The persistent slip
there is due partly to the fall in wool prices,
and largely to the inflow of new capital;
of the £2,400,000 no less than £1,149,151,
which brought with it £761,113 of share pre-
miums, was gathered during the last seven
years.
However, encouraged by the improved
tone in the wool market and a bright sea-
sonal outlook, the board decided to pay a
5 p.c. div. It was a fairly steady 15 p.c.
proposition for the 20 years to the close of
accounts in 1929. But the recent quick
development (hastened by the absorption of
Harrison, Jones and Devlin and Badgery
Bros, in N.S.W., and of Bagot, Shakes and
Lewis, in S. Aus.). followed by the collapse
of prices, has added greatly to the risks,
wages and other costs lag behind the drop
in values, taxation continues to mount,
and a recovery to former price levels need
not be expected. Hence the market has
shortened its bid for the pound shares to 235.
6d. as against 31s. 12 months ago and 51s.
3d. a year before that. Allowing for the
div., the return at the current price is 4.4
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, or 7.1 p.c. should
the distribution be lifted to 8 p.c. To pay
an 8 p.c. div. shareholders’ funds at March
31 (capital and reserves combined) would
need to turn in only 4.2 p.c., and better
than that might be expected when condi-
tions become more settled. The immediate
danger lies in the possibility of clients being
unable to stand up to their commitments;
but there is promise of relief in interest
rates, and with wool prices as they are,
the position has lost a lot of its recent drab-
ness. Exchange is also helping; but the
gains from that must in the long run be
offset by raised costs.
The financial structure and other things
are seen in the next comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
Liabilities.
1920. 1926. 1930. 1931.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 773,010 1,750,000 2,399,892 2,400,000
Debentures 1,504,648 1,434,658 1,418,702 1,418,702
Other liabili-
ties .. 118,411 813,211 1,309,596 944,736
Liquid assets 647,455 023*287 398,515 342,697
Advances .. 1,967,430 3,687,113 5,886,051 5,608,741
Pro perties
and stock 220,723 345,500 290,904 281,907
Premises,
etc. .. 212,803 634,049 649,158 643,968
Other assets 64,105 93,889 166,564 124,940
During the year £79,747 of deposits (now
£348,364) were repaid and £285,113 was
wiped off the amount coming to other credi-
tors (£596,375, including the bank). The
book value of advances was reduced by
£277,310; liquids were drawn upon for
£55,818. Still, leaving debentures out of
the reckoning, liquids amounted to 7s. 3d.
■ of every pound of outside money in the busi-
ness as against 6s. Id. at the previous
balance. The other 12s. 9d. was over nine
times covered by advances alone. The de-
benture debt, a reminder of the ’nineties, is
interminable, except that the co. has the
right to purchase; it costs on the average
a shade under 4\ p.c. Properties and stock,
mainly the co.’s runs in Queensland and
N. S. Wales, appear at a conservative
figure.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
Paid Capital. Net Profit.
March, £ £
1920 .. 276,005 61,106
1921 .. 442,489 66,524
Reconstructed and amalgamated with Zetland Glass
Bottle Works, Ltd.
, Dividends- N Nominal
Net Pref. - To Re- Re-
Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
M&.rch £ £ £ £ £
1923* 139,370 lO p.c. = 90,850 30,145 30,145
Reserve adjustment .. 456 30,601
1924.. 147,207 15,750 10 p.c. = 77,570 53,887 84,488
1925.. 151,210 15,750 10 „ „ 80,780 54,680 139,168
1926.. 163,799 15,750 10 „ ~ 91,094 56,955 196,123
1927.. 179,365 15,750 10 „ „ 93,044 70,571 266,694
1928. 184,868 15,750 10 „ ~ 93,048 76,070 342,764
1929.. 207,952 15,750 12J „ ~116,310 75,892 418,656
Staff Fund, £2500 416,156
1930.. 187,254 15,750 12§p.c.=116,310 55,194 471,350
1931.. 76,768 15,750 6 „ „ 55,828 5,190 476,540
*l4 months.
This co.’s shares are among the most popular
industrial stocks on the market. Expansion
of the business and of the profits therefrom,
the solid nature of the financial structure,
the addition of a 21 p.c. bonus to the 10 p.c.
div. in 1929 and 1930 and the anticipation of
extra benefits sent the price of the ords from
275. six years ago to 61s. in September, 1929.
Then the outlook changed, trade quietened,
the market broke and the figure sagged to
235. a year later. It has since fluctuated
between that and the 30s. mark, but is now
steady around 28s. 6d., notwithstanding that
the div. was dropped to 6 p.c. for the 12
months to March 31.
At 28s. 6d. the return is 4.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis, or 7.3 p.c. should the distribution
be lifted to 10 p.c. again. The backing is
275. lOd. in net tangibles. The 9 p.c. cum.
prefs. (175,000 of them, which enjoy priority
as to capital) return a shade over 7 p.c. at
255. 6d. They are covered by £8 4s. 9d. in
net tangibles, and last year’s net profit was
over four times their annual requirements.
Obviously the market anticipates an early
recovery in the co.’s earnings, and a lifting
of the div.
Last year’s sales fell away, of course, the
debts question became more acute, and there
was a steady recession in the price of all
commodities —bottles, etc., included —whereas
the co. had built substantial stocks in
anticipation of continued demand, and to
ensure prompt deliveries. So, after taking
stocks into the sheet at £101,238 short of
the 1930 figure, there was a precipitous drop
of £147,176 in gross profits (£238,669),
which were the lightest since 1923. A saving
of £36,775 in exes. (£161,901) left the net
result at £76,768, or little better than half
the 1924 figure, and only £5190 more than
the pref. requirements and 6 p.c. to the ords.
called for. To pay the pref. div. and 10 p.c.
on the ords. total funds (capital and reserves
combined) as at March 31 need to turn in
8.3 p.c. clear; last year’s net profit was 4.S
p.c. on average funds compared with 12, 14
and 13.1 p.c. back to 1928. Reserves, by the
way, are labelled nominal in the table
because they are subject to £114,500 of good-
will.
Certainly the co. is in a splendid position
to benefit immediately trade conditions im-
prove. How soon and how quickly the wheels
of Australian industry speed up depends
primarily upon the way in which the Gov-
ernments carry out their part of the pro-
gramme. At the moment the outlook is
doubtful; at best recovery seems likely to be
gradual. The co. has made the most of
opportunities that the tariff has afforded it;
as new processes and other improvements are
discovered it instals them, thus reducing
costs, to the benefit of both shareholders and
customers. Also, it has absorbed most of
its important competitors, and has a very
firm hold on the glass trade throughout Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. Still, large plants
need to be run at capacity or thereabouts to
produce best results, and it may be a while
before the co.’s machines are again asked to
do their utmost.
Of recent years substantial additions have
been made to plant and charged to earnings,
and then from the same source the assets
have been liberally written down. Thus at
the close of last accounts fixed assets figured
at £221,565 less than they did seven years
ago; meanwhile £154,783 of fresh capital
was gathered:—
1924. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £950,695 £1,105,478 £1,105,478
’ Liabilities .. 87,507 167,828* 76,183*
Land and buildings 206,067 171,631 174,096
Machinery & plant 451,364 297,308 261,770
Stocks .. . . 316,225 520,872 419,634
Book debts .. 127,901 185,697 174,188
Cash invest-
ments, etc. .... 18,816 532,310 549,802
“provision for taxation.’’
Though the real liquid position is obscured
by lumping money at call and loans with
shares in other cos. (£17,492 net was added
to the item last year), finances are mani-
festly snug. Liabilities, which include some-
thing for taxation, were reduced by £91,645
during the term.
No hint is given in the report whether the
Crown Crystal Co., the subsidiary which
turns out blown, pressed and cut glass, is
yet contributing to the pool. The quietness
in the building trade has altered the outlook
for the manufacture of sheet glass, for which
plant was being installed by a new subsidi-
ary a year ago.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Loss. Dividends. serves. serves.
1919 .. 14,677 Nil 41,181
1920 .. 17,073 Nil 24,108
Profit.
1921 .. 43,842 12 p.c. = 31,800 12,042 36,150
1922 .. 97,299 20 „ „ 53,000 44,299 80,449
1923 . . 28,431 8 „ „ 21,200 7,231 87,680
.1924 .. 31,240 8 „ „ 21,200 10,040 97,720
1925 .. 28,793 8 „ „ 21,200 7,593 105,313
1926 . . 30,484 8 „ „ 21,200 9,284 114,597
1927 . . 61,698 10 „ „ 26,500 35,198 149,795
1928 .. 39,225 8 „ „ 21,200 18,025 167,820
1929 . . 39,142 8 „ „ 21,200 17,942 185,762
1930 . . 45,445 8 „ „ 21,200 24,245 210,007
Owing to dulness in the world’s sugar mar-
kets, where the Australian export surplus
(about 40 p.c. of the output) is sold, the
declared price for raws, excluding excess sugar,
was £l9 13s. last season as against £2O ss. 10d.,
£2O 17s. 9d. and £22 for the three preceding-
seasons. But it was a bumper crop, and
the sugar content of the cane was high, so
the board wrote net profit at £27,124, or
£784 more than the previous year’s. The
difference between that and the profit shown
in the table represents the net addition to
the replacement reserve (now £131,872).
This has been built up as circumstances per-
mitted since 1912, and nothing has been
visibly withdrawn. If it is not accumulated
earnings in excess of actual depreciation,
then the £210,007 of reserves shown above
is not 100 p.c. genuine profit.
Including the addition, the year’s net
result was 17.1 p.c. on capital as against
14.7, 14.8, 23.3, 11.5 and 10.9 p.c. back to
1925, so a couple of points were added to the
final div., which was at the rate of 10 p.c.
p.a., making 8 p.c. for the year. Share-
holders have averaged 8 p.c. for the 20 years
since the co. took over the sugar interests of
A H. and E. Young, Bundaberg, and, now
that the public effort is directed toward
lowering the cost of living, it is doubtful
whether better than that need be expected.
The Federal Government has renewed the
embargo on imported sugar for another five
years from Sept. 1 next; but it has been
done in the teeth of bitter and apparently
growing opposition. The base price of
raws has been fixed at £22, rising to £23,
subject to variation in production, wages and
hours. For the whole industry the present
average cost of raws, including depreciation,
is estimated at £lB ss. per ton. Any increase
in production is to be discouraged; there has
been a check on the planting of new areas
since 1925, but improved methods have
swelled the tonnage.
Fairymead does not broadcast its out-turn
of raws, but capital expenditure on fixed
assets can be expected to ease; visibly it has
averaged £16.715 p.a. over the last seven
years:—
1923. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £265,000 £265,000 £265,000 £265,000
Liabilities .. 58,793 140,481 60,705 28,640
Estates .. 176,063 222,637 227,696 226,908
Factories, etc. 112,585 163,341 165,145 162,111
Railways, etc. 41,084 53,434 53,301 54,993
Plant . . . . 40,627 54,503 42,690 43,355
Stores . . .. 5,643 11,076 20,869 17,815
Sugar stocks,
book debts, etc. 46,070 37,287 22,966 19,666
Debts totalling more than half the paid
capital had piled up at the close of accounts
in 1926. But earnings have since permitted
reductions totalling £111,841, the cut last
year being £32,065. Thus a liquid surplus
of £8654 showed up at Dec. 31.
Prospects are for another satisfactory
crushing, and there aire hopes that the
Chadbourne plan will steady prices in the
world’s markets. But investors, doubtful of
the future of the industry, price the pound
shares at 18s. At that figure the return is
8.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The backing
is 355. lOd. in net tangibles, including the
replacement reserve.
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 36,535 22J p.c-. = 21,318 2,960 17,361
1927.. 46,575 35 „ „ 35,423 2,651 20,862
Goodwill written up £93,367, and that
amount capitalised .. .. • •
1928.. 41,421 15 p.c. = 31,034 11,855 68,973
1929.. 40,182 15 „ „ 31,322 3,724 63,837
1930.. 38,270 Hi ~ ~ 23,658 3,617 52,842
1931.. 24,291 6 „ „ 12,745 6,735 48,031
About 11 years ago Buckinghams, retail
drapers in Oxford-street, virtually made a
present of a fine cash-order connection to
some of their employees ; thus the present co.
began. Then followed a run of boom years,
when money (mostly other people’s) was
scattered freely, and borrowers cared little
about the price for loans granted on the
“pay as you earn” principle. Also there
were some rich pickings by way of trade
discounts. In these circumstances this
and other well-handled cash-order concerns
achieved some glittering results.
Of the £206,900 of paid capital £133,609
is bonus scrip, handed out since 1922. The
last gift was about four years ago, when
£93,367 of water was pumped into capital
by writing up goodwill, making it £112,087,
which is not treated as an asset herein.
Thereupon the div. dropped from 35 p.c.
to 15 p.c., and then to Ilf p.c. in 1930, when
the artificial prosperity began to wane.
Last year the outlook changed completely.
The trouble was not so much to got business
as to select it ; the shrinkage in incomes
generally and growth in unemployment have
made the debts Question perplexing and col-
lections difficult, thus affecting costs. Also
the practice of granting small loans, other
than cash orders, was temporarily dis-
continued, turnover fell away 30 p.c., and
there was a slip of £24,023 in gross dis-
counts, interest, etc. (£61,054). Though the
taxgatherer took a bigger bite, exes.
(£43,515) were got back £B5OO. Taking re-
serve adjustments into the reckoning, the net
result was £13,979 lighter than the previous
year’s, being 11.7 p.c. on capital as against
18.5 p.c. and 20 p.c. in 1930 and 1929 re-
spectively. So points were knocked off
the div., reducing it to 6 p.c.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:—
IQ9R iqoq iQQn 1091
Paid capital.. £98,774 £198,446 £206,895 £206,900
Liabilities .. 52,589 53,099 64,624 33,515
Freeholds . . 39,065 39,135 39,135 39,135
Furniture, etc. 2,038 2,545 2,761 2,809
Book debts, etc. 135,028 142,490 167,306 133,100
Loans on
mortgage .. 14,000 20,000 20,000
Cash .. .. 10,084
The year’s surplus earnings and a reduction
of £34,206 in debtors’ balances enabled
£31,109 to be wiped off the amount coming
to creditors, and £10,084 of cash to be accu-
mulated. The more or less liquid surplus
(£129,669) improved £6987.
Competition for a smaller volume of busi-
ness at reduced rates, and further cuts in
trade discounts, can be expected to affect
earnings, while taxation and the collection
problem, already referred to, will make over-
head difficult to curb. Past performances,
therefore, are not much of a guide as to
what can be expected.
The public is interested in 167,068 fully-
paid £1 B shares, which have priority as
to capital. In addition there are 18,700 A
(vendor), 19,315 B paid to ss. and 16,308
C (employees’) shares. All scrip ranks
equally for dividends. Sellers aslc 15s. as
against 255. a year ago for the B shares.
At the lower figure the return is 8 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. The book value of the
cover is 19s. in net tangibles.
Automobile Fire and General
Bonus,. Dividends ~
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 8 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1923.. 997 209 797 400
1924.. 3,556 200 8 p.c. = £432 2,924 3,324
1925.. 6,905 £1250 200 8 „ „ 586 4,869 8,193
1926.. 14.791 3000 200 8 ~ „ 964 10,627 18,820
Premiums on new shares, £694 .. 19,514
1927.. 17.461 4500 200 8 p.c. = 1136 11,625 31,139
Premiums on new shares, £330 .. 31,469
1928.. 8,827 4011 200 8 p.c. = 1268 3,348 34,817
Premiums on new shares, £1135 .. 35,952
10 p.c.
1929. .11,011 3196 250 10 p.c. =2042 5,523 41,475
Premiums on new shares, £521 • .. 41,996
1930.. 5,986 4381 250 10 p.c.=2250 41,101
12 p.c.
1931.. 9,996 3745 300 12 „,, 2700 3,251 44,352
This little co. was given a flying start by
the Royal Auto. Club of Vic. in 1922;
but it severed its connection with that
body a little over three years ago, when the
board decided to accept all classes of risks,
and welded “Fire and General” into the title.
There was a sharp drop in net premiums,
due to heavier re-insurances. For these
(Wild Cat continued on page 16.)


|»\4
■JWLLmn
111
m\a
Ulgfld Tyne Miimp Jump i
H
IN \
4U§fSIAU4
PATENTS
GASTON
I
\
\
\
X
\
Note the sturdy, well-built
main frame, the convenient
controls and the wide, large-
diameter rear wheels. Note
also the wide spacing between
the tynes and the high clear-
ance of the main frame.
The International Scarifier
is a«n ideal implement for the
scientific preparation of
fallow land, and will give
satisfaction wherever used.
The forecarriage is so designed
that very short turns can be
made without interfering with
the swings or bridles. Special
tractor hitch can be supplied on
special order.
WL
sun
pc
To assist the farmer in the reduction of his production costs
we are offering this line of International Scarifiers at prices
never before attempted in Australia. The prices quoted are
from 20% to 33below those of our competitors, and
cover the most up-to-date line of scarifiers ever placed
before the Australian farmer. Machines range from 7 ft.
to 1 1 ft. cut and include a size for every requirement.
3
SITES
14 TYNE 7 IT.
9ft. 18TYINE
22tyneI1FT.
IMPORTANT
ANNOUNCEMENT
TO FARMERS!
The Associated Trading
Banks’ ruling rate of inter-
est will be charged for
deferred payments on all
orders accepted by us for
these scarifiers and other
farm machines and imple-
ments, including tractors
and engines, and we hope
that this substantial reduc-
tion in interest rates will
be of assistance to farmers
in reducing their produc-
tion costs.
Look ai ihe Prices/
14 TYNE
7 FT. CUV
18 TYNE
9FT.CUT
22TYNI
II FT. CUT
f5B
L CASH
f 79
CASH
on Application
CUT OUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
International Harvester Company of Australia Pty., Ltd.,
229-231 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me full particulars of your International Scarifiers advertised
in the Sydney Bulletin.
Name *
Address
Here are some outstanding features of the International Scarifier.
Compare them with the features on any other scarifier and you will
soon be convinced that the International is the best machine for
your work.
SPRING STEEL MAIN FRAME. Made of 3in. x 3in. x 5-16 in. special spring steel
angles. Top members securely braced by crossbars to maintain rigidity.
THREE-POINT SUSPENSION. Frame is mounted on axles of rear wheels, and is
centrally pivoted between the two front wheels. No possibility of twisting or
straining the frame on rough or uneven ground.
REAR WHEELS. 38in. x 4in. near and 38in. x 3in. off on 7ft. and 9ft. sizes.
38in. x 4in. near and 38in. x 4in. off on lift. size. Fitted with dustproof grease-
cups, and have replaceable boxes, sleeves and stub axles. Inner surface of wheel-
boxes and outer surface of sleeves are chilled and hardened.
FRONT WHEELS. 23in. x 3in. on all sizes. Have replaceable boxes and stub
axles. Mounted on spring-steel standards working ip long, cast-steel bosses
fitted to the frame. Special adjustment for aligning the wheels.
SPRING-STEEL TYNES. Tynes are made of special self-hardening spring steel,
and are supported and braced between spring-steel arms. Tyne foot is forged
2in. wide, providing an excellent seat for the share.
TYNE ADJUSTMENT. The simple movement of an eccentric block between
the tyne support arms enables the set or dip of the shares to be altered. Can be
adjusted in a few minutes.
AMPLE CLEARANCE. Ample clearance is provided between the tynes. They
are set in four rows across the machine, and have a 6in. cut. There is alsoi
plenty of clearance underneath the frame.
UNIQUE BRIDLE DRAFT. Pressure to tynes is applied by a series of vertical
control arms at rear of machine, which transmit tension from main draft bar
through bridles above the frame. Nothing here to obstruct the free passage of
rubbish through the machine.
1831 : 1931
McCORMICK
Reaper Centennial
One hundred years ago Cyrus
Hall McCormick invented the
reaper. The task h*e began, the
International Harvester Company .
now carries on . . . the task of
lightening the farmer’s toil and
increasing the fruits of his labour.
Additional Standard Lines of Australian-Made
Farm Machines will be offered from time
to time at correspondingly low prices.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY., Ltd.
229-231 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES ALSO AT BRISBANE, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND PERTH.


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.’
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
# * » ss
Walter G. Cameron, B.A. (Cantab), late Economic
Mining Geologist F.M.S., formerly Deputy Chief
Geologist Q,, reports on mining properties. Address:
N. S. Wales Bank, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Tanks are ideal equipment for the
storage of any type of liquid. They ensure absolute
purity of the water supply, and for acids, alkalies,
wine and such like fluids they are unequalled. Abso-
lutely non-corrosive, easy to erect, strong, durable,
and inexpensive. Write for free particulars to the
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at
Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
INVESTOR
lias control of
£5OOO to £lO,OOO in cash
for investment
in a good mining proposition,
preferably gold.
Fullest confidential particulars in first
instance to Aurum,
Care Mercantile Exchange,
380 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7/ie Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 44 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Electrolytic Refining & Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Purchasers and Refiners of
GOLD and GOLD ORES, SILVER and SILVER ORES, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION, COPPER ORES, COPPER PRECIPITATES, SCRAP COPPER,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper. “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of
the Company’s offices, viz.:
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O'Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, SEND YOUR GOLD BY POST (INSURED) TO ANY OF
OUR OFFICES.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
contracts it went to London, and locally it
gets little of that class of business to com-
pensate for the block of premiums passed on,
it being outside the Associated group.
Last year the connections were strength-
ened by the patronage of the United Com-
mercial Travellers’ Association of Australia
and the “Herald” Touring Club. Still, there
was a slip of £7964 in net premiums, due to
slackness in motor-car business:—
Net Pre- Loss Expense
miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1925.. £26,055 £6,200 £13,800 23.8 p.e. 53.0 p.c.
1926.. 50,819 16,871 22,520 33.2 „ 44.3 „
1927.. 83,028 29,206 38,370 35.2 „ 46.2 „
1928.. 63,711 41,501 16,065 65.1 „ 25.2 „
1929.. 58,765 34,999 15,859 59.6 „ 27.0 „
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1931.. 43,380 21,650 14,307 49.9 „ 32.9 „
Nevertheless, it is plain from the spring in
the loss rate in 1928 and from last year’s
contraction of 7.4 p.c. therein —claims were
£7819 lighter—and the reduction of £4494
in exes, that the common or garden variety
of motor risks have been unsatisfactory.
Despite the shrinkage in net premiums the
year’s underwriting surplus (£7423) was
£4349 better than the previous year’s.
If bonuses to policy-holders—the co. con-
tinues to operate on. semi-co-operative lines
—are taken into the reckoning, the surplus
was £3678. Investments turned in £2573,
or 10.2 p.c. on capital, making £6251 avail-
able for shareholders; so the div. was lifted
a couple of points to 12 p.c. Though that
rate cannot be relied upon, the co. has pro-
spects, provided exes, can be kept in hand.
At April 30 policy-holders could see net
tangibles equal to 159 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, arid that is a bit more than
is usually considered adequate. There was
£6182 coming to creditors. Cash and book
debts figured at £7112; public securities,
£35,590; premises, etc., £43,333. Capital
is in 50,000 £1 shares paid to 10s. There
are 5000 prefs., 8 p.c. cum., which advance
with the ords. in any distribution beyond
that rate. The scrjp is not listed.
Waihi G.-M. Co., Ltd. (M.L.)
For the year to Dec. 31 last this co.
treated 220,984 short tons for a yield of
£381,817 in gold and silver. The figures
include .18,545 tons from the adjoining
Grand Junction, assaying 13.5 dwt. gold
and 7oz. 9dwt. silver, worth 725. a ton,
against Waihi’s 7dwt. gold and 2oz. sdwt.
silver, worth 335. lid. The combined crush-
ing's averaged 375. Id. compared with 355.
sd. in 1929. The improvement was due to
slightly better extractions (92.2 p.c.) and
a drop of lOd. a ton in costs (235. 10d.).
A further £14,450 came from bullion in
process. Interest, etc., contributed £19,389,
and power supplied by the M.L. Government
under the Hora Hora hydro-electric pur-
chase was valued at £10,625, making total
income £426,282. as against £404,770 in
1929. Exes. (£426,282, including taxation,
etc.) took all the increase and £7957 besides,
leaving £96,481 net. The 2s. div. (£99,181),
an annual event for the last decade, left re-
serves at £431,325, which is invested mainly
in British and Dominion Government secu-
rities.
The year’s development disclosed 216,536
tons of new ore, so reserves (364,762 tons)
are down only 11,653 tons; average value is
335. Bd. But about half the ore blocked out
is supporting shafts and levels, and it is
doubtful whether much of this can be
withdrawn at a profit. All the payable ore
exists within the block bounded by the
Martha, Edward and Royal lodes. Explora-
tion below the 1300 ft. level has failed to
disclose anything worth while. Owing to
the caving of the Martha lode, due to the
removal of the arches, Junction’s old main
shaft has been equipped as a standby.
With the end of the old mine in sight, and
nothing attractive having come forward in
gold, the board turned its attention to tin.
Thus Punket Tin Dredging, Ltd., was formed
with a capital of £300,000, of which Waihi
owns two-thirds and Tronoh Mines, an Eng-
lish concern, the other third. The pup
bought 650 acres in Siam a couple of years
ago, but there has been delay in transferring
the titles. The dredge is on order, but no
details concerning it or the property are
given in the report.
The main pillar, of Waihi’s strength is
its holding of British and Dominion public
securities, etc., in at £371,337 (market
value) at Dec. 31. There were other more
or less liquids totalling £73,700, to meet out-
side liabilities of £41,819. Interest in the
subsidiary figures at £51,542. The mine,
equipment, etc., appear at £276,665; that in-
cludes the hydro-electric works, for which
the M.L. Government is to pay the co.
£212,500 in November next.
During its 43 years the co. has produced
£16,682,368 worth of gold and silver, paid
£5,892,000 in divs. and £913,000 in taxes.
Paid capital, doubled by a bonus issue in
1927, is £247,954 in ss. shares, which fetch
14s. 9d. in the market.
Mt. Isa
Silver-lead bullion production has at last
started at Mount Isa, and regular train-
loads of the metal are now being hauled
603 miles to Townsville, whence it will be
shipped to London and there desilverised
and refined.
Despite the low price of lead and silver
it seems possible that Australia will have
to tender an apology to Leslie Urquhart for
refusing to accept, firstly, his abounding faith
in the Mout Isa deposit, and, secondly, his
faith in the Australian people themselves.
Isa is a gigantic scheme. To open up a
mine and erect a plant at a capital cost
of over £3,000,000 before looking for any
revenue may appear to some people to be
an act of lunacy. As a matter of fact, it is
little more than the application of the
kindergarten principles of modern industrial-
ism. We in Australia have not yet learned
these principles. With the gradual extinc-
tion of the mining industry staring
every politician in the face, Governments
have preferred to borrow and trust to luck.
The various sections of the plant at Isa
are daily being tuned up, and gradually the
bullion output is climbing towards 200 tons
per day. In a few weeks the output will
be at the rate of 60,000 to 70,000 tons of
bullion per annum. That will be attained
when the concentration mills are treating
2000 tons of ore daily. The mine is now in
a position to deliver that quantity to the
mills day in and day out for the next 40
years.
Isa is unlucky in coming to production
just at a time when the metal markets have
got every producer on the face of the earth
beaten. That condition cannot, of course,
continue for ever. The big Queensland enter-
prise is, however, in a position to achieve
as low an operating cost as any other silver-
lead property in the world, provided it is
given its due. Whether at present prices it
can stand up to some of Queensland’s labor
anomalies, and still look happy, remains to
be seen. For instance, underground haulage
is all electrically driven, and the cages at the
shafts are similarly operated, on the push-
button principle, just the same as an auto-
matic lift in a city office building. But the
Queensland law requires that the only man
to push that button shall be an engine-
driver, with the usual winding enginedriver’s
certificate. What a chance the unions have
lost in not insisting that every automatic
lift in the city be placed in charge of an
enginedriver!
The Palmer River Gold Co., which got its
dredge working at the end of December, pro-
mises well. For three months to May 25 it
treated 55,400 c.y. at an average cost of 4.9 d.
The gold won was 3300 z. 3dwt., making the
average value 7.6 d. per yard, excluding the
bonus. Recently recoveries have been 40oz.
or more a week; 20oz. will cover working
costs. Timber and minor mechanical troubles
interfered with running time, and much
fine gold has escaped. This loss is due to
heavy grey sand, which clogs the riffles.
To overcome the difficulty shakers are to be
installed (cost about £1000) within the next
couple of months. Recoveries are then ex-
pected to approximate bore values of Is. Id.
a yard, with no increase worth mentioning in
costs.
* * * *
The continued low price of copper has just
about settled Chillagoe’s chances of keeping
the smelters open. Of course, the value of
the metal return is ridiculous compared with
the wages paid. Still, the position would
be worse but for Cliff Rutledge’s energetic
campaign. Chillagoe’s last closure was dis-
astrous for many miners; no warning was
given, ore was on trucks, and unloading
charges had to be paid. But the Govern-
ment has promised that this will not occur
again; if closure has to be the verdict, two
months’ notice will be given.
* * *
The tailings from the old Tasmania mine
at Beaconsfield (Tas.) are being treated by
the Gold Recoveries Co., a Launceston
crowd. Some of this dumped stuff assayed up
to 29dwt., but the average is about sdwt.
It is claimed that ldwt. will pay; there is
a big heap to treat, so the co. reckons it
is in for a good time. Further, some people
think more gold was left in the work-
ings than was taken out, so an effort is to
be made to unwater the mine and get it
going again. But Dad is always a pretty
safe person to back in .such enterprises. He
wasn’t such a careless miner as some of us
think.
Rumors have been long current that high-
grade ore existed on the Great Boulder
Prop, near the mine-manager’s house, and
recent yields obtained by tributors at this
point confirm the suspicion. One party
crushed two parcels for £2O and £33 per
ton respectively. These figures are not net
to the tributors; the co. retains a healthy
percentage by wav of royalty.
* * * *
State Batteries is one Government depart-
ment in the West that is not taking things
easy. Ore suppliers continue to demand
more treatment facilities, and are aghast
on being told batteries are booked up six
months ahead. Something will have to be
done, otherwise leaseholders will next be
asking Happy Jack Scaddan, Mines Minister,
for cash advances against assay value of
ore at grass.
* * * *
Of Alluvial Tin’s three subsidiaries, Chang-
kat netted £15.134 for the year to Dec. 31
as against £06,738 for the previous year. A
credit of £54,939 brought forward made
£70,073 available. Of this two divs. of a
shilling each took £13,000, and £3068 was
struck off development account (now £549).
Output was restricted by 32 p.c.; still, the
dredge recovered 524 tons of tin oxide worth
£46,104, at a working cost of 4.23 d. a yard.
Owing to the unsatisfactory outlook, it is
not proposed to further equip the area at the
moment, though another dredge will have to
be installed, since the present plant would
take about 40 years to handle the 80 million
cubic yards yet to be treated. At Dec. 31
liquids totalled £17,927; there was £1648
coming to creditors. The fully-paid £1 shares
fetch 225. on the market,
Kramat Tin, which started digging in
January, 1930, earned a net profit of £23,792
for its first 12 months’ work, with tin averag-
ing £137 9s. 10d., London. A 6d. div. took
£4125, and £10,475 was used to wipe out the
development account. Thus, after attending to
the previous year’s p. and 1. debit, £6930 was
carried forward. Output was restricted by
43 p.c.; nevertheless the big dredge produced
685 tons of ore from .771 b. ground at a cost
of 3.087 d. per cubic yard, which is good
going. Liquids totted up to £18,746, and
liabilities to £2074. Paid capital is £165,000
in £1 shares, for which 30s. is asked on the
market.
Kundang, a moderate profit-earner in the
past, closed down on July 31. Thus, for
the 12 months to Dec. 31, there was a loss
of £1999 compared with a profit of £9940
for the year before; the p. and 1. credit
stands at £3285. Average recoveries and
costs were .541 b. and 4.738 d. per yard respec-
tively as against .5851 b. and 5.28 d. in the
previous year. Creditors figured at £5,463;
liquids totalled £6455, including stores
(£4931). For the pound shares ss. is offered
and 6s. 6d. is asked.
❖ sj: »|c $
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I have £16,000 invested in Commonwealth
and Queensland Government securities,
which I propose to keep intact for a bene-
ficiary. What terms in the coming conver-
sion would be best? —4o79.
The bill now before Parliament provides
that existing securities bearing interest at
p.c. and over will be spread evenly over
the 10 maturing dates on conversion into
new 4 per cents. That leaves holders no
option. The present 5 per cents, are to be
exchanged at the option of the holder into
3J per cent, stock at par, maturing in 16
years, or 4 per cents, at a discount. Pre-
sent securities carrying less than 5 p.c. may
be converted into 3 per cents., maturing in
7 and 13 years, at a premium, or into 4 per
cents, at a discount. Interest on all new
securities (which will he Commonwealth
paper) will be free from present Common-
wealth super tax of 7J p.c., and from further
taxation by the Commonwealth or any State ;
but they will be subject to existing taxes.
The long-term paper thus has advantages
so far as taxation is concerned. As for
capital, the new bonds are likely to remain
at a heavy discount on the market until in-
terest rates generally recede; the long-terms
at the heaviest discount.
To what extent, if any, can benefits under
life policies escape probate duty in Queens-
land? Is the law different from that in
N. S. Wales, and, if so, how? —4041.
In N.S.W., with a beneficiary policy, if
the beneficiary pays all the premiums bona
fide, apparently no probate tax is collect-
able ; if he, or she, pays a proportion of the
premiums bona fide, probate tax is not pay-
able on that proportion of the total number
of premiums paid. That applies equally to
a policy assigned to the wife or anyone else.
In Queensland there are both succession and
probate duties. As to probate duty, the posi-
tion is practically the same as in •S.
Wales; also as to succession duty with this
modification —if the beneficiary paid some
premiums necessary to keep the policy in
force, it would be wholly free from suc-
cession duty. This matter has not been
dealt with by the Courts in Queensland; but
this reply is based on the opinion of leading
counsel.
Correct acid to use in the amalgamation
of a copper plate for the recovery of gold
and to avoid, sickening the mercury? —3B6B.
Acid should not be used on copper plates
after they have been amalgamated, as it
sickens the mercury; they may be scrubbed
with - a lump of cyanide held in a woollen
rag. and bad spots may be brightened with
sodium amalgam; then they must be kept
from contact with the air either by a flow of
water or by a blanket of wet sand. Before
amalgamation a plate may be cleaned of
adhering scale, etc., by scrubbing with a
woollen rag and sand into which is poured
a little 10 p.c. nitric acid; water must be
available to wash the acid off immediately
it has done its work. Then a scrubbing
with cyanide should brighten the plate to
receive the mercury. A new hard plate may
require gentle heating before laying in posi-
tion, in order to open up the surface and
make it absorbent. Cyanide is, of course,
very poisonous.
How is Commonwealth public servants’
superannuation fund invested? —4004.
At June 30, 1930, the fund totalled
£2,964,233, which was invested £2.104,712
in Commonwealth bonds, and the balance in
Victorian public-body securities. The aver-
age rate of interest is 5.5 p.c.
Average price of standard copper during
the last -five years?-— 4087.
1926. £5B os. Bd. per ton; 1927, £55 12s.
3d.; 1928, £63 14s. Bd.; 1929, £75 9s. 7d.;
1930, £54 13s. 7d.; average for five years,
£6l 10s. 2d.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A. 8.; (1) It means that this 6 p.c.
Commonwealth issue, maturing in ’32, was on that
day worth £B4 for each £lOO face value; and that
the return (allowing for repayment of principal at
par), was 19.98 p.e. The catch is that it probably
will not be repaid at par on the due date. (2)
ipc XYZ: Don’t think much of your egg;
but, having sat on it so long, you’d better finish
the job... .M.S.: Looks like a good gamble; if safety
of principal is important, no. . . .R.C.S,: (1) But the
scheme is to reduce deposit rates, too. (2) Don’t
recommend any. Much depends upon the amount of
risk the buyer is prepared to take. .. .James McN.:
Paterson, Laing and Bruce’s divs. for last year
were: Prefs., 6 p.c.; ords., 3 p.e.—and they were nor
earned. The eo. once paid 121 p.c. (in 1920), but
showed a loss the following year... .0.A.8.: Queens-
land Ins., Howard Smith, Dunlops, B. H. Prop
R.H.H.: Depends. If safety is important, leave it
where it is—or give it to the Commonwealth Savings
Bank... .R.F.G.: See p. 50, “Quarterly Summary of
Australian Statistics,” to Dec., 1930. Overseas
interest on Commonwealth and State debt at that
date was £27,548,545. .. .A.C.: Last published
figures (Sept. 30, 1930) showed net tangibles of 14s.
3d. per ord. share. Investments and book debts are
the doubtful items. See “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,”
March, 1931, for full review... .M.S.: (1) Yes. (2)
Not yet; development work not nearly completed.
(3) A likely gamble.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
THE CATCH IN IT.
(“And Samson said, ‘With the jawbone of an ass heaps upon heaps... .have I slain.’ "—Judges xv, 16.)
RUNNER: “You’ve killed heaps, all right! The trouble is that most of them belong to our own army.”
The Poisonous Middleman
In our campaign to reduce costs—a re-
duction that is absolutely necessary to
“ solvency more attention be
given to the middleman. Ihe shocking vas
of money in building and operating railways
is a powerful factor in producing high costs;
but the over-supply of middlemen and their
rapacity are a greater factor still.
Almost every week The Bulletin gets
e e A„„t„oiiQn
proof of the sort of sharks the Australian
producer has to struggle against. Here is
this week’s example. The producer in this
case is a grower of currant- and other grapes
in the Swan Hill district (Vic.). Last year,
in March, 36 cases of two-crown currants were
delivered to a n export agent. Account sales
for these goods delivered in March, 1930,
were received in June, 1931—nearly 15 months
after delivery. The goods were sold in England,
allegedly at 265. 6d.; if this was the price
honestly received it appears to have been
the lowest of the season, and it would be
intoWimr to learn how manv more Austra-
interesting to learn bow many more lustra
lian growers had the extreme bad luck t
strike the lowest market of the season,
Having managed to strike the lowest price of
the season, the consignment, which brought
£25 was then met with charges amounting
to £l9. That left £6 to the good; but
exchange (“at date of shipment”) was
added brineine- un the net Droceeds to £7.
aaaea, Dringing up tne ner pioceeus lu ii.
As the actual cost of picking was £7,
grower got nothing at all tor his own laDOr
or by way of interest on his money or as a
contribution towards shire rates.
The grower is now fairly used to heavy
charges for such things as cables which he
knows nothing about, and for export levy,
marine insurance, stacking, London com-
mission, commission in Australia, postage,
fumigation, steamer freight, road freight,
rail freight, fire insurance, marine insurance,
Customs entries, port rate, consolidated rate,
rent and warrant stamps, packing-shed
charges., sampling and a few other things—
he takes all these successive taps now in a
half-dazed fashion. But this year he heard
so much about the exchange premium and
the millions it was putting into the pockets
of the producers that he has been almost
hopeful. He rarely is after things are
squared up. In this case the delivery was
made in March, 1930; the goods were sold
in England at “various dates,” and payment
was made to the grower in June, 1931. Now
it may be a perfectly proper thing that,
where the shipper makes an advance to the
grower equal to approximately the net value
of the consignment, the exchange premium
should be at the rate when the advance was
made. But where no advance whatever is
made, where the whole net proceeds are sent
from England after sale, it is plain robbery
to pay the grower the exchange premiums
as at the date of shipment. Who is the
thief The Bulletin does not know: it may
be the Australian shipper or it may be bis
English agent, or they may share the pro-
ceeds of the robbery.
Always we get back to the old question:
Well, what can be done about it? Co-opera-
tion seems the only way. It isn’t always
satisfactory, of course; growers let their
own “co-ops.” down too often, and executive
officers are not always efficient or wise. But
even if the manager or secretary isn t always
efficient, he generally has more confidence in
himself than the average grower, and can
put up a better fight for a fair thing*.
American Wages and Costs
Gold alone won’t make a country prosper-
ous: the TJ.S.A. is finding that out. The
million dollars—roughly 27 millions sterling,
no f only is there great unemployment:
there is also a very large shrinkage in trade
turnover and profits. Of 200 great indus-
trial corporations reporting to the Treasury
Department a return at the rate of 10.7 p.e.
P-a. on capital was shown in the first quar-
iggg; . q quarter of 193 ? the
ra t e was jj ac ]j to 53 p c j n SO me sections
the fall of net earnings has been much
greater than half. The list of shrinkages in-
eludes: Petroleum, 100 p.c. (that is to say,
there was an aggregate loss in the first
S mUhtawT ’ ’'ef- ‘dSitS
equipment,’ (I;’ auto accessories,’s2; auto-
mobiles, 47.
American banking reports and economic
surveys show that tremendous efforts are
being made to reduce costs, not generally by
wage cuts (though there have of course,
been many of these )> but b y improved
methodg and spee ding up of labor. An in-
teresting and significant report has been
made on building costs. Taking the figures
as at January, 1914, as a base (100), it is
shown that costs ran up to 207 in Dec., 1929;
but already there has been a steady fall to<
188. In this case there has been no wage-
reuucuon .
In the latter P art of 1929 bricklayers in the
metropolitan district of New York were receiving
$1.87£ [7s. 9fd.] per hour and laying an average
250 to 300 face bricks or 700 common bricks per
day. Now they are receiving $1.92$ [Bs. OJd.] per
hour but laying 400 to 500 face bricks and 1200
1499 common bricks per day, an increase of
approximately 80 per cent.
The same survey says that the daily show-
of structural-steel erectors has increased
, n ?' c * , ~ , , , . ~
Thus; far .there. are no. Statistics regarding
a S'reater amount of vork offering; but more
building of dwellings was noted as a first
consequence of cost-shrinkage in this trade,
, .
Meat and Wheat and state Rights
When Victoria tried to protect her cattlc-
growers by amending the Health Act so as to
impose special observances on the importers
of chilled beef from Queensland, it was com-
plained in the North that the regulations
were contrary to the spirit of the Constitu-
tion, which forbids any embargo on inter-
State trading. Talk of resort to the courts
fizzled out, and of late nothing has been
heard of the matter.
Now N. S. "Wales is re-echoing the pro-
test. In January this year, after deciding
to guarantee Queensland farmers close to
4s. a bushel for their wheat, the Queensland
Government acquired all the local flour, and
discouraged importation from other States
by raising rail freights on consignments from
N.SAV. and otherwise. The result has
been that the trade has been ripped to
pieces. N.SAV. millers have asked the
Federal Government to take action, but the
question of whether there is restraint cam
only be settled expensively in the courts,
and nobody cares to take on a contract like
that in these times.
The final result of Queensland’s action is
that her wheat-farmers are now assured of
at least 3s. lOd. per bushel for their last
season s wheat, and are on a much better
wicket than their contemporaries in the
other btates of Australia. Certainty, Queens-
landers are paying a little more' for their
bread, but the extra cost is well worth while.
Our Fishing Industry
“Limers”: I wish I could have a better
opinion of our fishing industry’s future.
Fifteen years ago, in the earlier days of the
N. S. Wales State trawlers, a haul could
be picked up any old time within a few
hours’ steam of Sydney; but now Bass Strait
is combed by the Sydney fleet. This in-
creasing scarcity is in marked contrast to
the North Sea fisheries, where hundreds of
trawlers operate. from ports like Grimsby,
and, when the herrings are in, literally thou-
sands of trawlers follow the fish down from
the Orkneys during the few months of the
season until they disappear —only fishes
know where. Records prove there is no
diminution in their number year by year,
nor apparently century by century.
The cause of our shortage is not far
to seek. The N. S. Wales coast is a steep
one, and, unlike the North Sea, whose aver-
age depth is from 15 to 20 fathoms, provides
few feeding-grounds. Queensland, I admit, is
a different matter; inside the Barrier is an
area larger than the North Sea, of similar
depths and with an unlimited variety of
feeding-grounds. Many trawls, however,
would be lost or damaged before we could
get a reliable survey showing the nature
of the bottoms, and unfortunately warm-
water fish have neither the same flavor nor
the same qualities for preservation and
canning as their cold-water brethren. So I
am afraid we will never get rich by fishing.
They are all coming to it. Some months
ago the P. and O. changed the Mongolia and
Moldavia over to the “tourist” traffic; and
when the Orient Co. sends out the Orsova
next October, that magnificent liner will in-
augurate a similar service. The change
means that they become one-class boats; but
it doesn’t also mean. that they become
flat-rate boats. The ordinary single fare by
the Orient is £lOO first, £B4 second; by the
“tourist” liner you can go for anything from
£39 —all quotations are plus exchange these
days. Passengers have the run of the ship—
decks, smoke-rooms, etc.; the 1 difference in
price is due to the widely-different cabin
accommodation. The system has been prac-
tised for years on the Atlantic, and its
success has led to even the mammoth Maure-
tania being lately turned into a one-classer.
* * * *
“Tomb” :' For fatheadedness it would be
hard to beat local officialdom in any part of
the world, civilised or otherwise. The
Queensland Egg Pool recently called tenders
for the supply of a large quantity of egg-
cases, and the only timbers specified were
spruce and hemlock—both imported ! The
timber industry plays a big part in the
economic life of Bananaland, and at present
the sawmills and timber-woi*kers are up
against it. It might be expected that pre-
ference would be given, to local timbers even
if the local wood happened to be not quite
so good. As a matter of fact, the hoop-
pine is good enough for furniture and joinery
and butter-boxes, and has the rep. of being
about the world’s best pine. But, it has the
great drawback of being Australian—which
apparently disqualifies it in the eyes of the
Queensland egg pool.
* * * *
A small plant capable of producing from
straw and farm waste 60,000 gallons of
motor spirit annually is at work at Manga-
lore (Vic.). The spirit is marketable at
Is. 6d. per gall., and the operating co. (Farm
By-products. Ltd.) proposes to set up plants
at other points. The raw materials consist
mainly of straw, sawdust, maize stalks and
sorghum, the purchase of which gives strug-
gling farmers some help. The' waste is
treated by a process which obtains from a
ton of straw up to 40 gallons of spirit; ana
organic manure is also produced.
* * * *
When the Port Campbell and the Jervis
Bay dropped down the Derwent with nearly
200,000 cases of apples aboard, their going
meant the close of the Speck’s fruit-ship-
ping season for overseas markets. Forty
ships have this autumn lifted 2,385,519
bushels of apples and pears for British and
other European mouths; the heaviest cargo
(113,568 bushels) went by the Ferndale,
next (109,388) by the Karamea. The small-
est lot taken by any of the 40 ships was
the Hurunui’s 14,000. As the earlier arrivals
in London have realised pretty fair prices,
and as the exchange rate makes “pretty
fair” look pretty good, the Huon, Derwent
and Tamar orcliardists are hopeful of re-
trieving some of their last year’s losses and
pulling up a bit of the slack in their mort-
gage interest. The little State ships about
three of every four cases sent away from
Australia: other chief exporters this season
were Westralia 473,260 cases, Vic. 361,234.
N. S. Wales, fourth, managed only 51,416.
* * * *
One of the world's transport problems has
been solved by a Maoriland engineer, if
cabled accounts are correct. This is the
design of a heavy-oil engine, which is so near
the standard weight and design of petrol
engines that these can easily be converted.
The plans have been checked and approved
by no less an authority than Joseph Maine,
who designed Malcolm Campbell’s famous
speed car, the Blue Bird, and lie is satis-
fied the man from M.L. is on a winner.
* :!: •-!: *
South Aus. has been cheered by the news
that two local inventors, Giles and Richards,
have perfected a machine for making slate
beds for billiard-tables, and that importa-
tions will no longer be necessary. Like the
rest of the continent, S. Aus. has never been
able to make much use of . its undoubtedly
fine slate beds. The first worked were at
Willunga, in the south; but the quarries
there have had a precarious life. Later an
exceptionally fine slate was opened up at
Mintaro, in the mid-north; and it is from
there that the material for the billiard-table
beds has been drawn. Freight, and other
charges have hitherto been the. great obstacles
to success —so great that most of the com-
paratively small quantity of roofing slate used
in Australia is of Welsh origin.
* * * *
A new method of utilising the cotton plant
is mentioned: it will be converted into
cellulose to be turned again into rayon—
artificial silk. As the whole plant, bolls,
branches and leaves, will be utilised, the
present drawback to progress of the industry
in Australia, the high cost of white labor
for picking, won’t operate, since the crop will
be harvested like lucerne. It all sounds like
nourishing a hefty serpent, since artificial
silk is one of the primary causes of the
falling-off of the demand for wool.
* * * *
It doesn’t cheer Griffith and Leeton to
learn that a big move has been made to set
up a British fruit-canning industry and that
the first year’s returns show 11,000 workers
already employed in the factories. Though
the industry is primarily designed to aid
fruitgrowers, several of the 40 firms now
working are handling also vegetables and
cream. Apart from the internal trade, it is
expected that there will be a good market
abroad for certain English fruits, particu-
larly strawberries. ! r


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. -
Her Majesty's (com. Saturday) . . “A Night Out”
Royal “The Calendar”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “The Yeomen of the Guard”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
Three Old Men: A Fairy Story
And now, little ones, you would like to
hear a fairy story, would you? Well, once
upon a time, indeed not so very long ago,
if you had been a little bird, and had been
up very, very late one night, when the air
was full of the scratch, scratch, scratching
of Playwrights’ pens and the smell of Lamp
Oil. you might have seen a Hackney Cab
rumbling along the street, with its wheels
going round on so little of the Grease of
“Take a peep inside this very old hackney
cab.”
Original Thought that they, squeaked rather
badly.
Of course you know, children, that the
Grease of Original Thought comes from a
quaint little creature called by some. Inspira-
tion and by others Work. Really, he is
what is called a hybrid, which means, dears,
that he has a sweet and beautiful mother
and a very, very serious and severe father,
who. is a nice man to those who like him
and a horrible, hateful person to those who
don’t. Properly speaking, it is these two
who should be called Inspiration and Work,
but the little creature I was telling you about
is often called by the name of one or the
other just because his own name, which
is Creative Achievement, is such an awfully
big hard name to say.
Now this little fellow is very elusive, and
though he has been known to feed sometimes
on Gum Leaves, he does not seem to. thrive
on them. He is all the harder to snare, too,
because, on account of the great value which
eccentric people called Critics, and even a
number of quite normal-looking persons, put
on him, a whole host of strange creatures
have, out of sheer envy, adopted his habits
and appearance, with the result that, whilst
he pursues his artless ways in the Jungle of
Beauty, they are trapped wholesale without
any trouble and industriously boiled down
by Poets, . Novelists and particularly Play-
wrights.
Now, ' little ones, these other creatures
belong to a very prolific family, and some
of their names are Too Much Trouble, Is It
Worth While? Can’t Be Bothered, Near
Enough and This’ll Do. And these strange
little fellows thrive wonderfully on Gum
Leaves, but, unfortunately, they render down
not to the real Grease of Original Thought,
but to a thick, opaque substance curiously
like Mud, or to a transparent fluid forbid-
dingly like Water. And it was some of this
sort of stuff that had been put into the
wheels that you would have heard squeaking
if you had been up very, very late one night
when the air was full of the scratching of
Playwrights’ pens and the smell of Lamp Oil.
Well, it was, as you would have seen if
you had been there, a very, very old H'ackney
Cab that was rumbling along the street that
“Boiled down by poets, novelists and
playwrights.”
night. Indeed, it was the very first Hackney
Cab ever made; and it might have gone on
rumbling for ever and ever if a very strange
thing had not happened. But before we
come to that, little ones, just imagine that
you are that little bird and take a teeny
peep inside this very old Hackney Cab. • -
What a funny sight, to be sure!’ There,
wedged in on the seat, are three of .the oldest
men you ever saw. They all have the fun-
niest long wavy whiskers reaching right down
to their feet. Their clothes are so old that 1 '
they have turned green with age. And each-
wears his name in the funniest sort of way-
on a label pinned to his coat. The first from
the left as you look in is called Who Killed
Cock Robin? the middle one is called The
Note That Went Astray, and the other one
is called And Then I Woke-Up. And now,
if you listen very, very closely—for they are
so old that their voices have become weak —•
you will hear that they are all singing softly
together as they go along. Who Killed Cock
Robin? is singing:—
I am the oldest of this par-ty,
I had a beard in Babel;
I was born when the bold, hear-ty
Cain heaved a brick at Abel.
And The Note That Went Astray is singing:
I have been jolted in this Hack-ney
On mud and on macadam;
My son is Mistaken Identity,
And we are as old as Adam.
And the other one, And Then I Woke Up,
is singing :
I have worked harder than both of them,
Ever since there were quills;
I sometimes start as a news i-tem
And end as an ad. for pills.
And so,, little ones, these old, old men would
be singing their funny old songs to them-
selves as they went along.
Now, it happened that in this place called
Australia, which is a foreign word meaning
“I Lean,” there dwelt a beautiful Fairy Prin-
cess ; and if you had been one of those active
little birds that can be in two places at
once, you would have seen, on this very
night, the beautiful Fairy Princess setting
forth from her Castle in a spirit of adven-
ture. And very bravely she set out, too;
but the roads thereabout were rough and
steep, and so she soon became tired, and she
was limping very sorely indeed when—what
do you think? That old Hackney Cab with
those three old men in it happened along?
Why, of course it did, and you will each
get an extra piece of candy afterwards for
guessing it.
Well, when .they came near her, she called
out to them in a pleading voice and asked
them very, very politely for a lift. And
what do you think those rude old men said?
They all stopped singing and cried out
together: “Oh, go and find Work! We’re
getting dog-tired of having people riding on
our backs!” Just like that. And perhaps
the Fairy Princess would have gone on and
found Work and his good wife Inspiration
and their son Creative Achievement, and
boiled him down, and got from him the
Grease of Original Thought, and gone on
smooth wheels until she found Life, or, better
still, Life’s graceful sister, called The Illu-
sion of Life, whose other name is Art. But
something, an invidious power called Ener-
vation, to wjhich Fairy Princesses
and Fairy Princes in Australia
seem to be peculiarly susceptible,
urged her to draw forth her magic
wand and wave it in front of those
three old, old men, whose names
you ought to remember by now.
And at once the old Hackney
iCab stopped—and what do you
thing, children? You would never,
never guess. Why, there in its
place was a deep hole in ' the
ground, and at the entrance to this
hole was a board holding the words
“Community Theatre,” and in it
was being enacted a play entitled
“Murd.er Next Door,” by Ruth
Bedford, which, as ' you will all
agree, is a very pretty name for a
Fairy Princess to be called .by.
And in this play those three old
men—can you. repeat their names,
now, dears?—were being made by
the Fairy Princess to work very,
very hard as a punishment for hav-
ing been so rude, and also so fool-
ish as to think that they could pass
by a Fairy Princess, especially an
Australian Fairy Princess, who had
grown tired of walking on her own
legs and had decided to go by the
easier way of the Hackney Cab.
And, oil, little, ones, those three rude old men
did work very, very hard indeed, even though,’
as they said afterwards, it is very • seldom
that they are all made to work together.'
And now, little ones, let this be a lesson
to you, so that when you grow up 1 you may
each buy a wand for yourselves, and fill it
with the magic fluid called Ink; and if ever
you should see even one of those old men,
you must shake your wand at him, and make
him work for you, and then you ■ will be
entitled to call yourselves Australian Play-
wrights.
# * * ’'
. A competent sub-editor might haye made
a cheerful one-acter out of Molnar’s . “The
Play’s the Thing,” with which Gregan
McMahon opened his sixth season at the
Comedy, Melbourne, last week. Its preten-
sions to being a whole evening’s entertain-
ment rested mainly on some stereotyped
comic business in which McMahon, as
Sandor Turai, an Italian librettist, was in
unholy alliance with Frank Desbrowe, as
Johann Dwornitschek, a butler. Another
mental breakdown on the part of the dra-
matist which held up the traffic was secre-
tary Mell, who, in the farcical, person of
Claude Thomas, interpolated some unfunny
matter into the third act.
The story revolves round the love of
Albert Adam, a composer of operatic' music,
for Ilona Szabo, a famous prima donna.
Ilona is visited in her bedroom by Almady,
a former actor lover. Their conversation,
conducted offstage, is heard by Albert, and, as
much of it consists of a voluptuous descrip-
tion of a portion of the lady’s anatomy and
reiterated statements of the eagerness of
Almady to bite it, Albert is obliged to take
a highly unfavorable view of his fiancee’s
fidelity. A rupture occurs which threatens
the success of an approaching theatrical pro-
duction, and in order to avert this librettist
Turai conceives the ingenious idea of prov-
ing to Albert that all he heard was the
rehearsal, at three in the morning, of a one-
act sketch with which the principals pro-
posed to entertain the guests in the castle
where the story happens. The play is en-
acted, and when Almady apostrophises a
peach in. the identical terms he had previ-
ously - used towards ’ his > former* mistress,
Albert is r: completely satisfied, and the' de-
sired reconciliation is effected. - . . -
•The storm which Thelma Scott raised-as
the temperamental prima donna was ’ very
near the real thing. Miss Scott is a very young
actress, and obviously has talent that will
stahd development.. Frederick Hughes had
much to do as Almady, and did it excellently.
The piece abounds in opportunities for the
producer to exercise his most unfortunate
failing—the farcical irrelevance which raises
laughs from odd corners of the theatre while
it gives the seeker after intelligent drama 1 a
tired feeling.
* * ¥
Every six months that very live organisa-
tion the Dame Melba Conservatorium
serves a musical melange at the Assembly
Hall, Melbourne, at which student perform-
ers do their best or their worst with the
compositions of other students. This year’s
outbreak revealed work of a remarkably
high order. Dora Sutherland’s ode “To
Heaven,” sung by the ladies’ choir, had
none of the lugubriousness which most com-
posers consider the correct thing when
addressing their remarks to the Deity. It
was set to the words of Robert Herrick, and
that poet’s influence may have inspired Miss
Sutherland to melody which was full of
light, shade and color. The same may be
said in a minor key of Miss Peggy Gran-
ville Hicks’s “Ireland,” which was melo-
dious, if more conventional. Director Fritz
Hart’s “In Memoriam —Dame Nellie Melba”
was also sung with fervor. It is a dignified
and cheerful postscript to the career of the
great diva.
In accompanying the Hislop-Goodman
combination on their musical peregrinations
at Melbourne Auditorium, present critic is
reminded of the occasion when he formed
one of a party of personally-conducted tour-
ists who were shown round the wonders of
the palaces of Potsdam. As a result of
their successful wars the German kaisers
had been able to pinch a vast amount of
other people’s property. Being too busily
engaged in wholesale massacre the royal
burglars had bad no leisure to acquire artis-
tic taste, so their loot, varied from master-
pieces by Rembrandt to the sort of bric-il-
brac anyone can pick up at a suburban
auction. The walls qf one room, which be-
longed to Crown Prince Willie, were all
stuck about with shells, colored stones and
bits of broken mirror. The tastes of royalty
and the music-loving populace meet on the
same ground, apparently. Hislop’s songs
have ranged from the dramatic grandeur of
“A Paradiso,” from “L’Africana” (sung
grandly), to Katherine H’eyman’s “I Think
that I Shall Never See,” which belongs in
the Crown Prince’s category of shells and
broken mirrors. Hislop gives the impres-
sion of being a trifle bored himself with his
own repertoire. His rendering of “Qucsta
o quella” is not far removed from bawling;
“Entitled to call yourselves Australian
Playwrights.
yet he can give subtlety to more insignifi-
cant ditties.
~ ■ . H- H-
! When “The Yeomen of the Guard” suc-
ceeds “The Mikado” at the Royal on Satur-
day, Melbourne will see in Maisie Ramsay
an _ Elsie Maynard with a voice of operatic
calibre. , The - demand for Dorothy Gill in
London having, become insistent, that lady
will be replaced by Evelyn Gardner, another
English importation, due to arrive at the
end of next month.
* * *
The vaudeville revival continues in Mel-
bourne. At the Central Hall Sam Stern is
administering a; weekly dose of this popular
verbal remedy, and the first spoonful went
down the throats of a large and receptive
audience. . At the Bijou Clem Dawe and co.
are receiving the reward of theatrical virtue
and low prices from people who don't
disdain an amusing show because it appears,
so to speak, in its shirt sleeves. A ballet
new to this critic is provided by a tennis
quartet who go through the motions of a
hard-fought match in rhythmic style to
music. If any student of economics wants
to know what the general public thinks of
its rulers’ methods of handling the
crisis he should observe the reception
accorded to Dawe’s poetic litany on our
politicians. At the Tivoli Fred’s dogs went
off the bill on Saturday, but their promised
return in a fortnight justifies a warning to
football fans not to miss the spectacle of
the two canine teams butting balloons
through the goals with more than human
precision. This turn is a first-rate enter-
tainer.
%■ * *
Frank Neil ended his season at Adelaide
Royal in a whirl of bedroom furniture and
pyjamas. A jolly show, especially if one
has dined well before going.
A plucky try at reviving variety is being-
made by Bert Lennon at Adelaide Prince of
Wales, which has gone back to the ancient
Rickards name of “Tivoli.” Amy Rochelle
(from “The New Moon”) and George Lloyd
are the stars of the moment.
* * *
Dorothy Brunton and “Dearest Enemy”
will tread on the heels of the, G. and S. season
at Melbourne Royal; after that there will
be. a general disarmament, and a.fresh army
will be enlisted for a new series of revivals.
These will include “Dorothy,-’. “The Old
Guard,” “Paul Jones,” “The Geisha.” “Florp-
dora,” “Gipsy Love” and other favorites of
the pre-war generation. The Firm is so fully
convinced either that the public hates any-
thing new or* that; modern • playwrights are
unable to provide it that it contemplates a
permanent comic-opera company to exploit
these and other musicomedy Old Masters.
Poverty Point
According to the “Australian Encyclo-
paedia,’’ Nellie Stewart, who had her last
curtain in Sydney on Sunday, was born in
1864. “Who’s Who in the Theatre” mentions
I860 as the date of the same important
“Cain heaved a brick at Abel.”
event; John’s “Who’s Who” declines to
handle any such high explosive. That it
must have been a long, long time ago is
evident from the fact that in 1902, when the
career of “Sweet Nell’’ started at Melbourne
Princess, The Bulletin’s dramatic critic
spoke of Miss Stewart as having already
been before the public for 30 years. Edmund
Fisher had to add that “people nowadays are
apt to mention the fact in a tone of disparage-
ment rather than admiring amazement,”
though “Nellie Stewart is the only artist
hereabouts who could fill the bill and deserve
the applause she won on Saturday night.”
Up till then her career had been a succes-
sion of innings.
She scored a lot of runs before she went out [to
England] the first time. Returning with a new
voice, she opened her second innings in “Dorothy”
at the Princess, and ended it as manageress of the
Opera House. Her old admirers had begun to think
of her as a bygone idol, when lo! Nellie came in
again and made a mighty hit as “Ma Mie Rosette,”
in which character she was said to look younger and
prettier than she had ever looked since her Cinderella
in the Theatre Royal panto, of 10 years earlier. This
third innings included “Mam’zelle Nitouche,” and
was brilliant all the time. After that came a loqg
absence of Nellie, relieved by news and photographs
of her youthful appearance as principal boy in Drury
Lane panto. Her next return to Australia, which
happened 18 months ago, was a comparative failure,
but in this, her fifth innings, Nellie has played
herself back to form. The Cinderella of ’B4 and
the Rosette of ’94 were not more charming than the
Miss Stewart of Saturday night. Here is positively
the most wonderful woman in Australia, and yet the
A.N.A. has never called her sister or presented her
with a bouquet.
In the opening overs of her first innings she
played beside another good one, Myra
Kemble; they were a couple of planets in a
“Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star” panto. In
England the first time Miss Stewart and her
brother Dick toured with their father and
mother —the elder Dick and the former Mrs.
Guerin —and later she played Gilbert and
Sullivan and other comic opera. Her most
I’ecent theatrical activity belongs to only a
month or two ago, when she helped the
Savoy Independents (Sydney) to stage a
Pepysian comedy.
“L. do R.”: Leo Darnton, whose singing
of “Take a Pair” was the high light of the
Melbourne revival of “The Gondoliers,” is
J.C.W.’s record itinerant. He has travelled
60,000 miles in their service.
“Monodist”: “There’s Something at the
Yardarm,” the Australian song that is
being featured by Peter Dawson, was com-
posed by Horace Gleeson (the Australian
song-writer) to the words of poet E. J.
Brady.
“Koolonga” : Thomas Brentnall, 84 years
young, is stepping into Melba’s place as pre-
sident of the. Melbourne Music Club. He
was father of the scheme for keeping Alberto
Zelman’s orchestra on its feet, and no musi-
cal activity of any worth goes on in Mel-
bourne without him. He attends all the
concerts, is still up to his eyes in business,
and plays sonatas on a violin in his spare
time.
“A deep hole in the ground
“Craiser”: Bernard Heinze, when he re-
turned from Europe, promised to put some
modern items on his programmes in his
future symphony concerts in Melbourne, and
the forthcoming season should see some of
them. Up to date Australia has heard very
little of the cerebrations of Stravinsky and
Schoenberg. Percy Grainger gave it a taste
of the forbidden fruit when he produced one
of his own works at the Auditorium, using
a multiplicity of grand, pianos and several
instruments new to local orchestras. One
of the musicians asserted afterwards that
he had accidentally transposed a couple of
pages of his score, and it is quite possible
ho did. for in the din it is quite likely that
even the conductor wouldn’t notice it.


r A
■S
&
'i? I
/JR
m
r
/;
s*
MISSED!
A TRAIN missed ... much
“ time is lost, all because
the alarm clock failed to work.
With Big Ben, Baby Ben or
any other Westclox, you are
sure of a prompt call and
accurate timekeeping service,
for Westclox are all precision
built.
There are Westclox alarms
in nickel and beautiful colors
... pocket watches and auto
clocks. Prices 6/6 to 62/6
WESTERN CLOCK CO.
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Distributors for Australia
Melbourne, “Sydney, Perth.
Brisbane
10
4
6 5
107
lUi
Ql
K
ssm
HEAVY
CARPET - LINOLEUM
p
RISSELL
SWEEPER
Sweeping is
made so much
easier with a
‘Hi-Lo’ Bissell.
Best for daily clean-
ing of every floor
covering from
thickest carpets to
linoleum -without
hard bearing down
on the handle.
There is no other
sweeper like it
light and wieldy
sturdy and durable.
Try a new Bissell—
at leading merchants.
Booklet on
request.
\<
a in
,irn
ARKELL & DOUGLAS, INC.
General Agents
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, AUCKLAND
Bissell Carpet Sweeper Co., Manufacturers
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — , think of
SCHUTE,
BELL &C
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
w
S'
sL.
THE
lINITCn insurance
(Jill I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
FirelnSUranCeseffectM on all classes of
' Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
marine kisks Hul]g of Vesselgj Frc i ghtß ,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
/V/
to
rjSEi
Patents.
CALCULATING MACHINES.
IVTOTICE is hereby given that the owner
1 ’ of Australian Patent No. 18516, dated
31st July, 1923, is desirous of entering into
arrangements to supply all requirements, of
the public by means of license or otherwise,
for working the said invention in Australia.
Further particulars will be supplied on
application to DAVIES & COLLISON,
Patent Attorneys, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
m
Unsuspected
constipation
is the result of
carelessness
Many people go about habitu-
ally constipated. And the last
thing that nine out of ten of
them will ever admit is consti-
pation. Instead they hide the
weariness of their lives beneath
the smug satisfaction that they
are "knowing" enough to look
after themselves—and blame
their heavy eyes and pasty
skins on to worry or long hours.
Eno's "Fruit Salt" turns "duty
done" into "duty properly
done." And it does this, not
by shocking the system into
temporary obedience, as all
harsh substitutes do. But—
through a process which doctors
call "osmosis"—by diluting and
thereby completely dismissing
the poisons of stagnation and
leaving your foodways sweet
and clean. Take Eno first thing
every morning—and only Eno.
Violent and habit-forming pur-
gatives do more harm than
good.
c&he words €>no and '"SPruit Salt” are registered trade marks. Sales Agents: c Cohe L-British < tf. & Go. <£td. Sydney
#
SHADOW SHOWS.
“C. Ma”: Melb. Capitol’s “Mother’s Mil-
lions” (Universal) is a remarkable film for two
reasons. It accidentally provides a' brilliant
statement of the values underlying contem-
porary American civilisation, and it gives
May Robson, an actress said to be oyer 70,
unfettered opportunity for a display of great
histrionic talent. As Harriet Breen, the
richest woman in America, she is the arch
ideal of an acquisitive society. A muddle
of ferocity and sentiment, she has spent her
widowhood in a titanic struggle with a male
financier for the control of the primary pro-
duction of a province. One corners the
wheat crop and the other prevents it from
being got away by buying up a railway.
When one or the other gets worsted in opera-
tions on the Stock Exchange, he or she re-
sorts to the law courts. Private hatred
is the driving force behind their activities.
It is the old Kentucky blood feud over again,
only the blood feud was less destructive. A
few people shot bullets through each other,
whereas the legitimate activities of Mrs.
Breen and her enemy affect the welfare and
freedom of thousands of perfect strangers.
A condition of the struggle is that Mrs.
Breen’s son and daughter should sacrifice
their lives to it, but they rebel, to the roar-
ing lady’s intense indignation. In the end
the old savage, whom no rational social sys-
tem would tolerate for an instant, knocks
her hated rival out and finds leisure to
indulge in, the luxury of maternal sentiment,
which takes the form of making them mil-
lionaires in their turn. A part of the action
is melodramatic, but Miss Robson makes
it all convincing. She breaks all the rules
governing feminine screen acting. She is
the most vital actress seen by the present
writer since the inception of the talkies.
# *
“D.”: “Almost a Honeymoon,” the sub-
sidiary at Sydney State, has nearly all the |
defects of the typical 8.1. P. comedy. The
timing is poor, there is too much talk and
not enough action, and the naughtiness is
crude. Hollywood is naughty on much j
subtler lines, as a rule, than Elstree. Com-
pare the Garbo production at the Plaza,
which is highly erotic, though few clothes
are shed and hardly a word of pashun is
uttered, with “Almost a Honeymoon,” in
which the virgin heroine goes about_ prac-
tically naked part of the time, and is dis-
closed breakfasting in bed with the hero o,
the morning after their wedding.
Clifford Mollison is a Wodeliouse idiot in
this show, with Donald Calthorp as his
Jeeves and Dodo Watts as the girl of his
heart. The humor derives from his hard-
upness (borrowing from the butler, hiding
from creditors, tearing up bills unread, etc.),
and from his efforts to detach Miss Watts
from Lamont Dickson, who is even more
exuberantly asinine than himself. Every-
body overplays most of the time, barring
that sterling actor Calthorp. H'e only
catches the contagion towards the end, on
learning that his master has inherited
£230,000. He registers surprise by going
at the knees, staggering about the flat, drop-
ping a tray “off,” and reeling back with his
knees still out of control —cheap stuff that
knock-about comedians like Laurel and
Hardy wouldn’t touch.
* * *
“D.”: It is hard to say if talkies about
America’s world of fashion are to be taken
as representations of life or fairy tales.
There is a well-acted and remarkably well-
produced M.-G.-M. one at Sydney Regent
now, in which a tailor’s presser—holder of
a dead-end job which, outside the U.S.A., j
attracts only the humblest —is accepted on
sight as the social and intellectual equal
of princes of commerce and their wives and
daughters. All he has to do to win their
affection and confidence is to turn up at
a party, to which he hasn’t been invited, in
dress clothes. And they aren’t even his own
clothes; he lias pinched them from one of
his employer’s customers. The writer has
seen umpteen Hollywood productions based
on the assumption that there is no differ-
ence in speech or manners between America’s
financial aristos and the most poverty-
stricken of their serfs. Clearly this variant
of the King Cophetua motif flatters the
national pride in some way, but it doesn’t
ring true outside America. Otherwise “A
Tailor-made Man” is entertaining. That is
to say, it has a number of smart lines, it
moves fast, and the photography and sound
are good. William Haines is the suave,
impeccably-dressed hero, and Dorothy Jor-
dan, Hedda Hooper and Walter Walker are
in the cast.
“F.” : Lawrence Tibbett was recently seen at
Sydney Regent in “The Prodigafi” (M.-G.-M.).
A hobo and former gaolbird, he returns to
the old family palace, down south, to see his
white-haired mammy, and gets a cool recep-
tion from a scoundrelly brother. The brother’s
charming wife is so discouraged that she
has decided to clear out with a local admirer
who is little better morally than her hus-
band. The prodigal prevents this, and in-
evitably he and the lady fall in love. Tibbett
is handicapped by a foolish face, but he can
act and sing. He is best in his more care-
free moments—-romping with children,
carousing with his fellow-tramps, singing
with the family niggers and so on. Stepin
Fetchit, greatest of colored comedians, is in
the cast.
* * *
“F.”: Radio’s “Bachelor Apartment,”
screened recently at Sydney Capitol, has a
somewhat shopworn plot, but the dialogue is
amusing. The story revolves around the pur-
suit of goils by Lowell Sherman. He bags
an assorted collection who pester him with
telephone calls, telegrams and personal visits,
and generally worry the soul of his impec-
cable butler. One menace to his happiness
has a demented husband with a revolver.
He finds it hard to convince the right girl
that his intentions are honorable with a
procession of angry rivals streaming in and
out of the place, but all works out satisfac-
torily in the end. It is the kind of brisk,
lavishly produced farcical comedy that
Hollywood does well, and the acting is all
good or thereabouts. Irene Dunne and Mae
Murray are the female stars.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
NOT accidentally
has “The Aus-
tralia” gained a name
that is world-famous
It remains but for
you yourself to enjoy
the proffered luxury
and comfort, the
cuisine, the atmos-
phere, and, of course,
the new Reduced
“Room Only”
Rates.
Tllc Australia Hotel
SYDNEY NSW r
j
Single Room—
from 12/- per day
Double Room —
from 22/6 per day
Telegraphic Address :
“Austraotel. Sydney."
TO MEET THE TIMES
us:
Oriental -
Melbourne* Premier Hold
Reduces tariff 30% without ’sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast. „ , .
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Murrungurry”: One-legged Emily, an old
lubra who used to infest the outskirts of
Adelaide, had a iwooden leg that she often
used as a defensive weapon. Her pet fail-
ing was rum. One day, being. loaded to
the obstreperous mark, she was making a
nuisance of herself on the bank of the
Torrens, where many nine people were enjoy-
ing the air and the scenery, when a John
Hop came along and arrested her. . Emily
slipped down on fhe grass and, whipping
off her wooden leg. threw it in the river.
“What did you do that for?” asked the con-
stable, crossly. “Want to washuin leg
'fore I go to gaol,” she answered. J. Hop
couldn’t carry her, neither could he take
her on one leg—an alternative he tried,
only to find Emily putting her arm round
his neck to lift herself along; so at last
he went off for assistance. Then Emily
took a fishing-line from her dillybag and
angled for the stump till she managed to
hook it. When the law returned in force
she had disappeared.
* * * #
“Hippo”: A delver into ancient natural
history says that 40,000,000 years ago the
horse was about a foot high. My memory
doesn’t run that far back, but 50 years ago
in the Peake country (S.A.) I saw horses
AN EASY WAY OUT OF THAT.
SWAGMAN : “Hey! What about a lift to Bourke, Mister?”
MOTORIST : “But I’m just coming from Bourke.”
SWAGMAN : “Well, ain’t you learned to turn your car round yet?”
which, inbred for generations, had dwarfed
to the size of a big collie dog. They came
in droves to water at the hole at night, and
when scared by any unusual sound scam-
pered off like rabbits. Stockmen tried to
capture some, but they were not to be
caught.
“Goldsalts”: Salting an alluvial show is
more difficult than faking a quartz prospect
(B. 10/6/’3l), but it can be done. Here’s
one w r ay. The owner of the claim takes a
dish of stuff in view of the possible pur-
chaser, pahs it off till a handful remains,
and then swilling the finer sand around
squirts the essence of his chew of tobacco
into the dish. In the chew is a half penny-
weight of gold.
❖ * ❖ *
“Pick”: Though in headlong
flight kangaroos and wallabies
can jump extraordinary dis-
tances downhill, it is only when
closely pressed that they turn
towards the foot of the slope.
They fear the jar on the brittle
bones of their long thin legs
«' that comes at the finish of a
mighty bound, and customarily
' they advance with care on the
steeps. Also they travel labori-
-1 ously when going up a rise, but
make up for lost time by going
with tremendous' speed across
level country. Foxes and din-
goes, on the other hand, soon
weary on a flat stretch, but the
sprint they unwind when tliey
: come to falling-ground usually
carries them beyond the Teach
of their pursuers. Hares arid
; rabbits again • prefer • uphill
; going. Their long hind legs
and muscular forequarters en-
able them to spring upward
from ledge to ledge at) a pace
that no greyhound can outdo,
and they always turn uphill for
safety. The back kick notice-
able in a fleeing hare is not
flashness. it simply means
that a hind foot missed its
stroke. ~
“FY7”: One would have, thought that
there are few Australians unable to say at
once which is the “near” and which the, “off”
■side of a horse. Yet the question was
i debated at great length in the Queensland
| Supreme Court the other day before a
decision was arrived at. It was only late
in the argument that it occurred to the
assembled wigs to consult the State Brands
Act, in which measure they learned that the
left side is the “near” and the right the
“off.” The Act applies this definition to
“horses, cattle, sheep, swine, camels and
goats.”
“Bad Australian”: The advice to new-
chum goldseekers tendered by “Palanda”
(B. 20/5/’81) and “Panhandler (B.
3/6/’81) is sound as far as it goes, but it
might be taken a bit further. When the
prospector has located a deposit of gold-
bearing gravel, and starts separating the divi-
dend from the dirt, he will require a tub (or
a “long tom”) and a cradle, in addition to
the pan. A very satisfactory quantity
of clean gravel may be treated with a cradle
in a working day, but when the dirt is taken
from new ground, particularly where the gold
is deposited on a pug or pipeclay bottom, it
must be well washed before cradling, other-
wise the clay will be rolled into lumps
by the oscillation of the cradle, and any
gold contained in or adhering to these lumps
will be thrown out with the hopperings.
The wash-dirt may be puddled at once, but
the usual method is to allow it to soak for
a few hours in the tub or long tom, when a
few sweeps with a shovel or a wooden paddle
will convert the clay into sludge, which can
then be run off, leaving the gravel ready
for the cradle. A tub may not always be
available; a long tom, which is made by
THE FILLY.
Dad (at pantomime ): “She ain’t got too much clothes on, Dave!”
Dave ( from the Tablelands) : “I ain’t worryin’ about ’er harness, Dad. It’s ’er action
I’m watchin’!”
trimming a section of hollow log and board-
ing up the ends so as to form a trough,
may be procured anywhere .in the bush. It
should measure about 6ft. long by 2ft. deep.
* * * *
“Runa”: We had been discussing the
legend of the taniwlia, the dragon of Maori-
laoid lore, and when next I met the ancient
chieftain Renata I asked his opinion of the
story. Renata said he
believed it, because of
the behavior of a big
log he had often seen
lying across the creek.
The log was not always
in the one spot, but,
almost submerged in
the dark water, would
change its position,
even in calm weather.
This perplexed Renata,
seeing that the taniwha
was supposed to be
long extinct. He said
noth i n g but closely
watched the log.
When a big flood came,
he stood on the bank of
the creek, now a turbid
river, watching the
rushing waters. In the
midst of them he sud-
denly saw the log, half-
sußmergf'd as usual, but
travellin g up - stream,
cleaving the foaming
torrent with the utmost
ease. He watched it
disappear in the gloom,
and stood a long time
gazing after it* know-
ing he had looked 'on
the last of the great taniwhas. The i log
was never seen again.
: i : s|: ; v
‘‘Boobera”: I’m dead against the theory
that opal has an igneous origin. It is found
in pipeclay country with rarely enough com-
bustible material to make a bush-fire, let
alone anything to affect the earth at any
depth. The gougers who claim it as due to
some property of the earth are probably nearer
right. Opal is a combination of pipeclay, or
sandstone w r ith a mixture of pipeclay, iron
(precipitated from sandstone by soakage)
and gypsum, no doubt subject to the same
influence as iron. Gypsum seems to origi-
nate in the same manner as iron ore, but so
far as I know only in pipeclay country. It
disintegrates and sinks through the earth
in flakey particles, and can often be seen
shining in the walls of a shaft. I have found
specimens of rock that show the constituents
of opal in an immature condition. In this
case a piece of gypsum has disintegrated and
formed again in a fissure of sandstone.
* *
“Pick”: I tumble out of my rabbit-cart
to dispute “Angus’s” contention (B.
20/5/’3l) that a bunny warren is always pro-
vided with u near-to-surface dead-end, from
which the tenants burrow free if their
customary exits are blocked. The cage-trap
inventor, Fred Chinnery, of Bungendore
(N.S.W.), in a few weeks completely cleared
the rabbits off Ivrawarry, Ridsdale and
Gunningrah. His method was to set his
traps in two of the warren entrances, and
block every other exit with bundles of paper.
Usually the rabbits starved within the warren
for six or eight days, then emerged into the
cage-traps. They never passed the paper
blockade, nor scratched a way free. Anyhow,
cotton-tails never disturb the earth within
the warren unless they have a ready means
outside for spreading- the spoil.
“Veronal”: According to some buslimen
the broad-lieaded snake—sometimes called
“yellow snake” on account of its yellow and
black upholstery—-exhales an unpleasant odor.
This characteristic is also true of the big
diamond snake, chiefly, I think, because these
sluggish reptiles .neglect to pick their teeth
after a carnivorous meal. For this reason
a bite from this solid-toothed and non-
venomous snake is apt to result in a kind
of blood-poisoning, caused by decaying food
adhering to the fangs. Ivrefft reckoned the
broad-headed snake venomous, though not
dangerously so, but Hamilton Hume, when
op'his trek from Lake George (N.S.W.) to
Port Phillip, recorded the death of a horse
from the bite of a yellow, snake —a lagoon
and swamp haunter, mainly nocturnal in
habit and seldom seen.
“E.K.P.” : When the, story of Mt. Isa
comes to be written it will start off with a
bit of real romance. In 1923, John Campbell
Miles, a prospector of, 40 years’ experience,
was searching for a lost horse in the wilds
of far n.-w: Queensland, and when resting
on-a hill, he, dislodged a lump of rock with
his knife., The resultant metallic - sound
caused him to examine the' piece of stone
closely,: when the color of the ore arrested
liis attention. He took several pieces to
Cloncurry to be analysed, and was advised
to send a good quantity to, southern smelters.
He did so, and returned to the bush. It
was not until six months later that he
collected his report from the smelters, and
learned that the ore lie had sent away was
full of silver and lead. Within a week the
bare peak was swarming with thousands of
miners. Miles named the hill Mount Isa after
his sister, Isabel. He worked on the field
until 1927. when he retired, still holding a
big interest.
THE RECOLLECTION.
[FOE THE BULLETIN.]
The morning star has risen, and, in the
grey of daylight,
The lances of the sun aye showing,; shin-
ing, tipped with' flame.
Seen from my open window are miles of
brick and mortar,
A dingy; • gloomy picture in an - old and
tarnished frame.
Out yonder, where I come from, the morn-
ing star is shining.
The boys are at their breakfast while yet
the dawn is grey.
Oh, that I could be with them, in God’s
wide-open country!. ...
I know they’re mustering' for beef on
Gordon Downs" to-day.
N.S.W.
X. L.


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
In the Centre of things!
ds
Located on Adelaide’s
finest boulevard, the
Grosvenor is handy
to theatres, shopping
centres, and public
buildings. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms. Hot
and cold water in all
rooms. Yale locks on
all doors. Fire-proof
throughout. Courteous
service. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
Grosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
SAFETY AND PROFIT
SECURITY. There is no safer place in Australia for the
custody of the savings of the people than the
people's own Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank
of Australia.
SERVICE. Complete Savings Bank facilities are provided
throughout the whole Commonwealth, through Branches
in the principal towns and 4,000 Post Office Agencies.
INTEREST. Every account maintaining a balance from £l
upwards earns interest at the rate of 4% per annum.
€bmmoiiwcaltl) Sa\nnQs JBank of Hustralia
M \ 'il ' ♦’ ’
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
More
Gallons
per mile
of wind
fd
One hundred to 150 miles of wind may operate
on the wheel of a windmill in a day.- That
windmill which lifts most water in each mile
of wind is most efficient.
men who Have replaced
OTHER MAKES OF MILLS BY THE
MODERN SKY HAVE DEFINITELY
PROVED IN EVERY CASE THAT
THE SKY GIVES MORE WATER.
And after all that is the logical result of the
Sky Windmill Co.’s steady determination to
build machines which for fineness of mechanical
construction and pumping power cannot be
bettered, no matter what you pay—yet Sky
machines cost you no more.
Catalogue free on request.
SKY WINDMILL CO.,
56 DAY STREET, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE ORDERS FREIGHT FREE.
“Barangkali”: After humans, the great-
est despoiler of the hive is the wild bee.
These robbers usually inhabit some hollow
tree in the neighborhood of the apiary, and
make sudden and deadly raids on their
domesticated relations. It is usual for three
or more of these interlopers to
land on the board of the hive and
endeavor to pass the guards un-
detected, but this rarely succeeds,
and they are quickly driven off
by the alert protectors. But this
scouting party is intended only
to reconnoitre, and after investi-
gating the whole bee colony it
marks down' the one which has
offered the least resistance. The
advent of the spies puts the
hives on the defensive. Extra
guards are posted outside, and
for a few days the bees work at
only a short distance from their
home, anticipating a raid in
force from the strangers. After
a few uneventful days, however,
the, hive resumes its normal
routine, and it is then that the
attack is launched. The robbers
suddenly appear from the sur-
rounding bush and concentrate
on the selected hive. At once a
mighty battle commences. Des-
perate hand-to-hand encounters
take place all along the landing-
board. At times the invaders
appear to be vanquished, but
again and again they re-form and
charge back into the fight.
Eventually a few of the van-
guard enter the entrance and
clear the way for the rest. Re-
sistance from inside the hive is
weak and is quickly overcome,
and the fruits of victory are then
reaped, the invaders glutting
themselves on the honey before
commencing to transport the re-
mainder to their own hive. Then
a curious thing takes place. Those
of the defeated hive still alive
set to work with a will alongside
their victors, and industriously
help to rifle their own .store and
remove it to the* robbers’ lair.
“G.S.L.”: “J.D.’s” par. about the abo.
being a poor prospector (B. 3/6/’3l) needs
qualifying. So far as finding gold on his
own account and bringing it in to trade or
sell is concerned, “J.D.” is right, but many
a W.A. prospector in the early days of
Coolgardie had a valuable offsider in a
BETTER TO ’OLD HIS CLACK.
“But, fanther, if ’ee do shingle from top, all the water’ll run. in.”
“Hark to ’n, mawther! He do think he do knaw’s much as his faather.”
blackboy. Binghi’s keen eyes soon learned
to distinguish gold-bearing stone, and they
were marvels at specking. One of my boys,
Palmer, located the best claim I ever owned,
He was out with Joe Tregear, my partner,
when .Toe said, on seeing a few likely-
ON THE ROAD TO AFFLUENCE.
MARY : “What you mean cornin’ ’ome ebery night late from work?”
BILLY : “Boss say , ‘time’s money.’ I take it plenty time, make it bi-i-ig money!”
looking floaters, “My word, Palmer, gold
sit down somewhere here.” A few minutes
later the boy called out, “My word, Joe,
mine bin findem.” He had, too —a real
bonanza. Tiger, another of my boys, was
a marvel at specking. Turn him loose
after rain, and he’d gather ounces while
I was getting pennyweights. But their
interest in gold was purely on my account
—they never attempted to look for them-
selves, or keep back anything they found.
He * * *
“Mulyan”: Many remarkable feats have
been credited to drovers on the long trails,
but what I consider the two best perform-
ances were put up some years ago by
Stewart Field. In the first case he took
8000 wethers from Carrandotta, on the
Georgina, down through Birdsville, when
that often-dry interior track was at its
worst. From Birdsville there was a 100-
mile stage without grass or water. It was
crossed in 93 hours, much of the travelling
being done at night, and the sheep camped’
during the hottest hours of the day. In the
second case Stewart struck the other extreme.
With nine men he took 10,000 sheep from
Ann Downs (Q.) to Wilmington (S.A.), a
distance of 1350 miles, in 25 weeks with
the loss of only 400, a good many of which
were drowned. On the; way lie had to build
a bridge across; Ivoopa Creek, which was
140 yards wide, much of it deep running
water. It was made of tripods, weighing
up to three-quarters of a ton, then longitu-
dinals, topped with rushes and bushes, and
over that hessian covered with earth. Tile
bridge was made in 14 days, at a cost of
£43, and saved two months’ delay. Other
drovers have built bridges-to take sheep over
flooded streams, but nothing approaching the
length of that one.
** ' *
“Mauri”: New- Guinea natives have
spasms of telepathic communication. On
the New Britain coast recently a native
using dynamite to shoot fish was badly
injured by a premature explosion, so
much so that he could not be moved. The
planter sent a sailing gig to the Government
station, 35 miles away, for the medical offi-
cer, choosing as crew friends and relations
of the injured man. After a quick trip
the message was delivered, and the gig
started off again with the medico. The
wind-having dropped, the crew bent to the
oars, anxious to get help to their relation.
When miles out in the bay the steersman,
with a scared face, said something to the
others in dialect. Inquiry elicited the in-
formation that the boy was dead and the
steersman could feel his spirit tugging at
the rudder. The doctor tried to make them
hurry, but they had become despondent and
hopeless. A . little later a big canoe was
sighted ahead, and soon ft was seen that the
planter was aboard. “Vovorri’s dead,” he
said. “What time did he die?” asked the
doctor. “About three o’clock this after-
noon,” was the reply. This was approxi-
mately the time the natives slackened their
efforts.
:!: * *
“Orokolo” : Touching that executioner who
apologised to his patient, and the Malays who
visit tiger traps and loudly announce that
they have nothing to do with the attempt to
infringe the liberty of the victims (B.
10/6/’3l), very similar observances prevail
in other parts of the world. Some of the
Papuan tribes are totemists. I was walking
one day with two natives when one suddenly
went in hot pursuit of a goanna which had
crossed our path, while the other remained
with me. A sound of commotion arose
in the jungle, and my companion began
to moan loudly, increasing his lamenta-
tions when his mate hove in sight carrying
the battered go. by the tail. It was explained
that the successful hunter belonged to the
shark totem, and could eat all other totems
save his own. The man who stayed with me
was a goanna, and, though debarred from
slaying or eating his totem, could not prevent
others from doing so. All he could do was to
make the foe mai, the sympathetic sound
which notified his reptilian cobber that his
heart bled for him. One way and another,
I have met many in allegedly higher civilisa-
tions whose sympathy for their out-of-luck
acquaintance rarely went further than' the
far mai.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Some of your correspon-
dents who'comment on the Haig statue (B.
17/6/’3l) are astray. I have photographs of
both models, and it is difficult to say which is
the greater atrocity, all things considered. The
■first shows .the dapper little beau sabreur
as a bullet-headed Ilindenburg astride a
Flemish carthorse..of the type that charged
at Agincourt. The second, which “Mulgo”
acclaims as correct, has the horse with both
feet on the same side off the ground at
the same time, a bloomer which reference
to any slow-motion film of horses will
expose. “Koolonga’s” assertion that pacers
are not unusual among military remounts
makes me grin. There are only three cavalry
paces—walk, trot and gallop—and in the
Imperial Army a pacer wouldn’t be toler-
ated. To say that “the type of soldier Haig
represented”—he was the typical, polo-play-
ing, hunting British cavalryman—would
“always pick a side-gaited charger if pos-
sible” is absurd. Haig never rode anything
but blood horses in his life, and his mounts
were the envy of his contemporaries. The
only soldiers writer has known to favor the
pacer were, the Boers, who had a great fancy
for the “tripplers,” as they called them.
SAM’S BANKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Some blokes go up an’ some go down,” said
Sheepskin Sam, “an’ some you’ll see
The same as what their fathers were and
what their sons are like to be.
A chap you meet may look as if he wouldn’t
call the Queen his aunt —
You can’t tell where you’ll meet him next
or how he’ll look. My oath, you can’t!
“Fie may be yelling ‘Bottle-oli’ or selling pies
or shining shoes,
The cove that sort of awed you once. You
needn’t always blame the booze.
For chaps go up and chaps go down; it all
depends on Fortune’s spin.
There’s little use to whip the cat; much
better try to frame a grin.
“A banker that I useter know, an’ in his
time a biggish pot,
’Twas him that gave me once,” said Sam,
“the queerest shock I ever got.
I had some bizness with the bloke; an’ in
his chair he seemed to me
The final word in righteous wealth and dull
respectability.
“He fitted in the picture, too, precise, con-
ventional and stern,
In glossy black with snow-white cuffs. Ah,
well, you gotter live to learn.
An’ where d’you think I saw him next? You
wouldn’t guess in fifty tries.
It wasn’t urgin’ at the trots or blackin’
shoes or sellin’ pies.
“The Gascoyne coach had halted on the
other side of Clifton Yale
To give the kangarooers there a chance to
get their monthly mail.
A roughish, back-to-Naturc crowd those
hunters of the Backblocks are—
You’ll hear about ’em anywhere from Bang-
email to Marble Bar.
“One shooter slouched along whose face I
somehow seemed to call to mind,
Burned though it was, his grinning gin an’
half a dozen dogs behind.
‘They say he was a banker once, that bloke,’
I heard our driver tell.
I took another screw, an’ —yes, ’twas him.
’Twas him as sure as Hell.
“He seemed to fit the picture, too, just as
he had the other one.
I see him now —his ragged shirt and moles,
his lubra and his gun.
He might have found his real lurk. He
didn’t seem to care a damn.
It takes a mighty lot of blokes to make a
world,” said Sheepskin Sam.
N.S.W.
PIPAKDS .


9
PYROX PLUGS—made in
Australia by Bosch precision
methods—are guaranteed gas-tight
and electrically efficient. Sold by
all garages and accessory houses.
Manufactured by PYROX PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty. Ltd.)
f
sd
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: K. V. BOOTH
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
m
■
6
D.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
N.S.W. proverb: A penny saved is a penny
taxed.
* *
The policy of the United Australia party
seems to be based on sound Lyons.
¥ *
N.S.W. Government has presented an inter-
esting report of business to June 30. the end
of the unfinancial year.
* %■
JUDICIAL REWARDS.
“When Mr. Justice Pike granted a decree nisi in
Sydney Divorce Court, a friend of the petitioning
wife threw her arms about her and gave her a
hearty kiss. ‘I really deserved that,’ remarked his
Honor.”
It recalls the famous case in which Mr.
Justice Bluggs sentenced William Sikes to
seven years’ hard. His Honor was imme-
diately set upon by the prisoner’s friends and
given a sound thrashing. “Quite all right,”
he smiled to the spectators, afterwards. “I
deserved that for not handing him a lifer.”
But the outstanding example concerns Mr.
Justice Goof, upon whom devolved the duty
of passing the death sentence on a callous
brute who had poisoned his aged mother by
THE CLIMB TO PERFECTION.
“Every time I kiss you I’m a better man.”
“Oh, my angel.”
dosing her with extracts from Mr. Lang’s
speeches. His Honor immediately divorced
his wife, married deceased’s widow, and now
supports her and her nine children. “I
deserve it all,” is the only comment he has
since made. “If I’d let him alone he might
have gone on and finished the lot.”
T. P. B.
V V
“ ‘I am speaking for the housewives of Australia,’
added Mr. Parkhill.”— Melb. “Herald,”
How these politicians love to butt in on
experts’ jobs!
Epitaph : Here lies Lang. Anyhow, if he
doesn’t, it’s about the only place he hasn’t.
* *
“The cost of manufacturing butter by the Norco
companies panned out at 2d. per pound. For pigs
14s. 34d. per head.” —“Bega District News.”
Wonderful what they can manufacture on
the North Coast!
* *
FAMILY RESEMBLANCE.
My wife has hair of a golden hue,
A perfect figure, and face the same;
Her eyes arc dark, and thoughtful and blue,
And so am I—since the triplets came!
P. O. M. C.
* *
WILL JIM BANCKS BE ARRESTED?
Alleged Vindictive Move by S.P.I.P.
Will Jim Bancks, known from Pole to
Pole as the world’s greatest Ginger Meggs
artist, end his glamorous career in a felon’s
cell? The problem is being debated hotly in
Sydney—outside legal circles.'
Police Move.
Last Sunday a coarse-mouthed policeman
(he was out of uniform —in fact, the fellow
was in his pyjamas—but was easily recog-
nisable by his coarse mouth) beckoned a
suburban newsvendor. “Sun!” he barked
truculently, and; proffering the price,
turned to the Bancks page. He thereby re-
vealed himself, according to our informant,
as an emissary of the powerful and un-
scrupulous, though little known, Society for
the Prevention of Insults to Policemen,
whose members are pledged to bring about
the downfall of Aussie’s art-genius.
Early Training.
Jas (“Murillo”) Bancks —known through-
out the Commonwealth as the Potts Point
Holbein —received his training under the
Warrawee vorticist Schnitz. The critic
Gloob said of an early portrait of Ginger,
now in possession of Master Gloob, “The
hair-tints are more amazing than Nature.”
The “Tailor and Cutter” has mentioned the
frockco'at worn by Meggs, sen., in one of
its articles on “How Australian Men Dress,”
while Greta Garbo, it is said, often copies
Mrs. Meggs’s frocks —or, rather, frock.
And it is the creator of
these immortals whom the
S.P.I.P is out to ruin!
Bancks “in Smoke.”
We visited the “Sun” office
on Tuesday. A tall, hand-
some man was discovered in
an ornate studio —or, any-
how, the place looked like a
studio —laboriously subtract-
ing £2,000,000 from £3,000,000.
“You have our sympathy,”
we began.
“What the blazes do you
mean ?”
“Aren’t you Jim Bancks?”
“Grr! I’m Campbell-
Jones.”
We hurriedly withdrew.
There can be but one explana-
tion. The harassed virtuoso,
dreading the worst, is “in
smoke.”
Royal Admirers.
We have vice-regal autho-
rity for stating that members
of the Royal family are
amongst the persecuted cele-
brity’s warmest admirers.
Princess Betty, on being
shown a typical Meggs, and
asked to look pleasant while
having her 17,000 th photo
taken, not only obliged, but
lisped “Pitty! Pitty!” Her Royal grand-
father observed to the photographer, “I have
nothing like it at the palace,” and Queen
Mary (herself a creative artist of no mean
order in woolwmrk) agreed warmly.
Machiavellian Attitude of S.P.I.P.
One who is believed by many to be a vice-
president of the S.P.I.P. said in an inter-
view over the ’phone yesterday: “Bancks?
Mean the artist bloke —the one with glasses?
Yes. Know him well. No. We’ve got no-
thing against him —nothing whatsoever. My
kids like his drawings. Have a look at
’em sometimes myself. So does the old
woman. Well, toorooloo! I’m busy.”
Is it the sinister affability of the mediseval
Borgia, assumed, as a blind, preparatory to
dealing the fatal dagger-stroke? We fancy
so, and that a lettre dr cachet ordering
Bancks to herd in a police-court cell with
the lowest traffic cases will shortly -issue.
Anyhow, our readers may rest assured that
all plots against the nation’s idol will be
mercilessly exposed, as and when concocted,
so long as ive continue to handle his pub-
licity.
H. S.
“A new kind of sound-picture is being ‘shot’ in
Chicago. ’ ’ —“A rgus.”
It would be.
* *
“Mr. Lang- is dragging Australia’s name in the
dust.”— “Age,”
Anyhow, it’s comforting to know we’ve
still got some!
* *
“The Retail Tobacco Sellers’ Association of Vic-
toria has decided to increase tobacco prices on
Monday. ’ ’ — “Argus. ”
It looks like a smoke ring.
¥ *
BUDGETING MADE EASY.
Why Jack Lang should have found it difficult
to produce a budget I can’t understand. It's
simpler than ABC: as simple as lOU in
fact. As the O’Cohen financial year also ends
on June 30. so that estimates based on my
WANTS TO WRITE FREE VERSE.
CHAPLAIN: “And what is your name?"
PRISONER: “One ’undred and two.”
CHAPLAIN: “But that’s not your real name.”
PRISONER: “No; it’s me pen-name.”
fancies _ for the spring meetings can be in-
cluded in the new budget, a few details may
be of value.
My last financial year closed with a
nominal deficit of £Bl 4s. 2d., represented by
outstanding tradesmen’s bills, which, how-
ever, are being carried forward, together with
£B4 2s. 4d. for the current year from similar
sources. Taking other periods as a guide, I
am confident that this accumulated deficit
of £165 6s. 6d. will be automatically can-
celled by June 30, 1932, because most trades-
men give up trying to find your new address
after two years.
The new O’Cohen financial year opens with
the Empty Bottle Trust Account in credit,
£9 6s. 2d., and this, together with the quid
I have already placed on Wind Galls for the
Melbourne Cup, encourages Mrs. O’Cohen and
self to believe that we will weather the year
well.
Estimated revenue from all sources (i.e.,
Child Endowment, turf investments and bfig-
snatching) is £256 3s. 5d., while estimated
expenditure is as follows :
DOMESTIC.
Fish and chips £5OO
Wife’s talkies and week-end beer.. .. 26 0 0
Odd compulsory cash payments .. .. 2 0 0
Midnight removals (12 at £2) . . . . 24 0 0
Beer 104 0 0
BUSINESS.
Racebooks .. .. .. .. ..£5OO
Fares to courses and gate money .. 26 16 9
Drinks for relatives of owners, jockeys
and trainers .. .. .. .. 52 0 0
Capital for bets (needed during first
month only) 1000
Financial pedants may say that my budget
doesn't balance. Anyway, it balances at my
end, which is all any man should expect
these times ; and while Treasuries tremble and
savings banks crash, the house of O’Cohen
newly swept and garnished, faces the future
with serene calm. Could that of Sir Otto
do more.
Angus O’Cohen.
FIFTY-FIFTY.
Wives who dance ev’ry night till the morrow,
With a passion for flirting imbued,
Shouldn’t growl if they find to their sorrow
That their hubbies prefer their hops
brewed.
* *
“GREATER LOVE HATH NO MAN.”
The young author stood in the Eftee
Studios, before Australia’s only talkie mag-
nate, the light of genius shining in his eyes
“Mr Thring,” he said, “I have the greatest
love theme of the ages, beside which the in-
fatuation of Antony for Cleopatra is but
a sly-grog shop flirtation. It makes the con-
glomerated love stories of history, literature
and Hollywood sound like a romance nurtured
in a deaf and dumb institution.” . „„
“But will it make an Australian talkie (
“Sir, it is all-talkie.”
“What is it?” gasped the Eftee emperor.
“Quick, or I’ll bust with excitement.”
“It is the story, sir, of Jimmy Scullin s
abiding love of office!”
* *
“Racecourse gamblers are bound for Hell.”
.—Melbourne revivalist.
Where the poor devils will strike still
another dead heat.
* *
“All the world’s a. stage,” and it’s time
we had a transformation scene.
* ¥
“By a mistake, the surgeon removed the wrong
bone,”
Hacked the wrong os, so to speak.
POINTS OF VIEW.
“Labor Daily.” —One of the greatest
crowds ever seen in N.S.W. assembled in
Sydney on Saturday, anxious to hear full
details of the seventh Lang Plan and learn
the truth about the financial
conspiracy with which Aus-
tralia is menaced. The my-
riads present gave the Pre-
mier a rapturous reception.
In a splendid fighting speech
he flayed those who had
weakly subscribed to the im-
pudent policy of Niemeyer
and his Teutonic friend
Guggenheimer. The mighty
demonstration augurs well
for the ultimate success of
the Seventh Plan, which is
destined, despite the furious
efforts of the moneybags, to
sweep Australia from end
to end.
“Sun.” —Last night _ Mr.
Lang addressed an insigni-
ficant meeting, consisting mostly of his
political supporters, on his latest “Plan.”
With facile guile he played on the
emotions of his audience, who howled execra-
tions whenever Mr. Bavin’s name was men-
tioned. An esteemed member of the A.F.A.
League had the temerity to ask a thought-
ful question. He was greeted with shouts
of “Toss ’im out” and “Sink the boot in.”
When Mr. Lang denounced Sir Otto Nie-
meyer and Professor Gregory, organised
basher gangs counted those eminent English
financiers out with disgraceful venom. At
the end of an hour the little gathering dis-
persed showing signs of acute boredom.
S. W. K.
* *
“German Baby Grand, take Upright part payment.”
— “S.M.H.” advt.
Grand if it works, but these sort of pay-
ments so often fall down.
* #
“The car mounted the pavement and crashed into
the corner h0te1.... The driver was fined £B.”
— -“Argus.”
Serve him right—driving to the public-
house danger!
NO DISTINCTION.
“What do you think of the new salary grab?
Once upon a time we used to hear a lot
about honor among thieves!”
“Of course that’s rubbish! Thieves are
just as bad as other veovle.”
“There’s something very humorous about a clog’s
tail.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Yes. It's a regular wag!
¥
“One of the riflemen claims that he had registered
a bull, which was not counted in his score.”
— “Referee.”
It’s very annoying to score a bull, and
find the marker has bulled your score.
THE PIRATES OF FINANCE.
Ted Theodore is Commodore,
And, nailed to the office mast,
The Scullincrossbones boldly flaunts.
While, heedless of an Empire’s taunts,
The doomed ship forges past.
From either bow comes the hellish rote
Of bust political pacts;
And the Noo South steersman, Johnny
Lang,
Careers along, not giving a hang
For economic facts.
Sad are the luckless passengers’ cries.
“We’ll soon be a total wreck,”
They moan, “if Johnny is left alone,
And the Scullincrossbones still is flown,
And Theodore stays on deck.”
TOM GUM.
A SETTLER'S CONFESSION.
I’ve got a new radio set,
And I’m getting my old razor set.
I've always disliked the smart set,
A nd now I’m beginning to\ get the “Sun” set.
The wife can’t cook, and my stomach's
Getting more and more upset.
A lot of people want me to settle,
And say they’ll set about me if I don’t.
I’d like to make everything all set,
Hut I haven’t a hope, because I’m settled.
J.K.


00
1
G&i@rari£@@
$
\N
XN
X
XX
X
fading
mda/M the
IT is sound policy to buy only first-grade tyres, and still sounder policy to buy only
first-grade tyres that can be satisfactorily retreaded.
The 1931 Rapsons are specifically designed and built to deliver maximum service,
and after that to outlast the heaviest retread.
There are literally thousands of miles of extra service in every Rapson casing after
the rugged Rapson Tread has completed its honest service.
These are definitely established facts set out in this letter from one of Sydney’s
biggest tyre dealers.
Insist on getting the new Rapson, the tyre with the definite retread value.
All
T yres
must rise
sharply when
new Sales Tax
and Primage operate.
Q
G>
K
0
S>4
o
V
&
Qo x~
<
4
XV
>J P-<?'£'<? e-'V ■
s «?' -* *y 4 » a < *3W
«W°
p <?
x* -o
&6
S
O’<
Cj
44
>^<4sV
K AJ*
e> <4,
x^\4
<S»'..o
vwV ">«?'
°> 4*X- ASv
*«&*
Prices 20% below other First-Grade Tyres
Customers can have tyres sent 'Pay on Delivery at their Railway Station
(Passenger train). Allowance made on worn casings.
275 CLARENCE STREET (near Town Hall), SYDNEY.
360 HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE.
RAPSON TYRE SERVICE CO., Ltd.
’PHONES: Sydney, MA2898, MA5292; Newcastle 1288.
FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about book-
keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are kept.
Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis and
keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every branch of the business
and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
“The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be
dealt with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means of everybody.
It will be sent from any Bulletin Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d.
for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just as valuable
to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.


Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland's Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fd
wm
wmm
EZ3
Such is the efficiency of the British “RENRUT” Quadruple!
Owing to patented principles this pump, although smaller in
diameter than many other * pumps, gives far more air per
stroke, and with much less effort than usual. Every detail
is engineer-designed and flawlessly finished in the finest
British style to give endless service under any conditions.
RENRUTQUADRUPLE
Paterftees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
If unable to obtain, write to our Factory Representa-
tive: Mr. JOHN xVRNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
PRICE, J
60/-
With gauge,
5/- extra.
CHEMIST SAYS
“HEENZO is the best family
cough and influenza remedy.”
A WONDERFUL MONEY-SAVER.
A leading chemist hdvises parents to save
money by making their own family cough
remedy by simply adding concentrated
HEENZO to sweetened water. By doing this
you will have a supply equal in quantity to
eight ordinary-sized cough-mixture bottles
that would cost up to fl. ITeenzo is the
ideal family cough remedy because of its
absolute purity and freedom from narcotics.
Therefore, it is a, safe and good .remedy for
even the youngest baby, as well as adults. A
bottle of concentrated Heenzo will cost you
2/- at all leading chemists and stores. Over
one million citizens annually prove the
goodness and economy of HEENZO as a
speedy and reliable remedy for banishing
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, influenzA,
and whooping cough. Thrift is a sign ci'f
wisdom. Buy a bottle of HEENZO to-day.
and have it in the home for immediate use
at the first sign of chest and throat ailments."
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED
MEAL
THE COMPLETE LAMB-MARKER.
“A.L.P.”: There are as many methods of
lamb-marking as there are ways of getting
drunk. Some believe in drafting the lambs
before catching, on the ground that it is
cruel to have the cavcs crushing the lambs
in the catching pen. Others maintain that
the drafting mis-motliers all the lambs and
makes the subsequent work harder, if not
impossible. Some keep the ewes and marked
lambs in the yard for hours, sneaking up at
night and lifting one side of the yard to.
let them draw out and feed aAvay. Others
don’t waste time in the yard; they get them
out as soon as possible and hold the sheep
in an effort, to mother—hold them for hours,
if not all day.
In my judgment, the best thing is to hold
the young ones in the yard overnight. After
the operation it is essential to get them to
their mothers and out on grass and good
feed as soon as possible. A hungry and
thirsty -ewe won’t look for her lamb. Let her
have a drink first. A eive always makes back
to the place AA’here she last saAv her lamb.
Give them plenty of room to mother in the
yard at night. After a lamb has had a
drink it wants to sleep. The ewe remembers
where she put it and goes away to feed, to
make some more milk. When a ewe and
lamb have come together let them go away
together. In short, over-mothering is only
another name for mis-mothering. The
smaller the lot the better the mothering, and
the better for the flock.
There is a wealth of lamb-marking
appliances on the market. I rather like the
idea of those pincers Avliich do not cut the
skin. I am prepared to belieA T e that the
use of pincers tends rather to let wethers
run to horn: but a wether with a dash of
horn is infinitely better than one fly-blown, ;
checked in its growth, or a bloated carcase
on the plains. For the other I prefer natural
means —give me the knife and the teeth.
The teeth have one great advantage over
all other pullers. The man operating may
hold the purse in his hands, between his
fingers and thumb. When 1m draws Avith his
teeth he presses lightly into the lamb’s
crutch with his finger and thumb. That acts
as a support. That reduces strain. With
his hands occupied with a patent puller he
has not fingers to spare to serve as tem-
porary trusses.
There are several kinds of dressings on
the market, each supposed to repel the fly.
Tar is taboo on account of the fact that
it soils the wool; but Stockholm tar is the
best repellent of the lot. Is it better to
soil an ounce or two of avool or to lose the
lamb? Three of Stockholm tar, two of
commercial castor oil (crude castor oil) and
one of either kerosene or turpentine is as
good a mixture as one may make ; if castor
oil is not procurable locally mutton
fat aaull serve in its place. These should be
thoroughly mixed \vbyu hot and boiled to-
gether before The stuff should be
put on when hot —uncomfortably hot—as in
that state it penetrates and fuses with the
v/001. Nothing yet devised by man is im-
pervious to the attacks of the fly. The fore-
going is as good as any, and I have used a
lot. In addition, it is cheap and easily
applied.
In brief, a little commonsense and
practical knoAvledge is the best aid to lamb-
marking Avliich has yet been put on the
market.
SPECIALISED WOOL-GROWING.
“Golightly”: A plan for farmers having
light, clean wool-growing couutry which may
be unsuitable for sheep-breeding. Buy a
station drop of well-bred merino wether
hoggets, 25 per cent, to 50 per cent, more
than required. Carefully class for quality
and length of staple, discarding all coarse
and uneven sorts. The loss on these, if any,
Avill be returned with interest during those
four or five shearings that the chosen sheep
will be kept.
In 1910 a farmer in the Wagga (N.S.W. )
district had a run of light, hilly country,
supposedly useless. A good judge of sheep
and avool, lie employed this plan with such
success that the clip fetched seasonal record
prices, and continued to do so for a number
of years. These results made such a good
name for the property that he sold out at a
great price.
This specialised Avool-growing enables a
small sheep-run to successfully compete with
large station clips at the sales, as all the
fleeces are of even quality and length, and
buyers favor such lots. Young sheep-farmers
wishing to folloAv the method, but not con-
fident of their ability to class their pur-
chase successfully, could not do better than
arrange with the district Government wool
and sheep expert. These men know their
job, and in N. »S. Wales their services are
available to all sheep-farmers without cost
to the latter.
THE BOTTLE-TREE.
“E.S.” : Besides being unique and strikingly
ornamental, ’the bottle-tree is uncommonly
useful, for it provides both food and drink.
It is superior to kurrajong, only the leaves
of which are edible; trunk, branches, roots
and leaves of the bottle-tree are good fodder.
Cattle and sheep are very fond of the soft,
pulpy wood, and thrive on it. Dairy cows
that have gone almost dry through want of
condition have quickly fattened and given an
increased yield of milk when fed on the chips
put through a chaffcutter. This compressed
fodder will keep for months in the log if the
bark is left on. Hundreds of sheep are
lost at times because they have become too
Aveak to be travelled a long distance to feed.
Here the bottle-tree is a saviour; it can be
carried in the log to the sheep, and kept
and used as it is wanted.
The home of the bottle-tree is Queensland,
where two important varieties are found from
the south to the central and western districts
—the narrow-leafed (Stcrciilia rupestris )
and the broad-leafed (Stercvlia trichosiplion) .
The former is the more useful, and occurs in
clumps, though in many places it is scat-
tered about. When in thick groups the tree
grows tall, but lacks the curious bottle-shaped
trunk which makes it so strikingly different
from all other trees in the country. When
growing in the open it is dwarfed, with
a broad top that provides a good shade, and
has a pronounced bottle trunk —-bulged in
the centre and tapered at each end. A big-
tree of this sort will produce from 50 to 100
tons of fodder —equal to a good stack of hay.
Some specimens grow to 50ft. high, Avith a
diameter of seven or eight feet at the swollen
centre part.
The tree- does not occur in N. S. Wales,
but it could be grown successfully in many
parts of the State. It likes a hot, humid
climate, but should do Avell whenever the
quaudong and kurrajong are. Some of the
best trees I saAV in Queensland Avere growing
on mounds or low hills in which there was
a good deal of-Band. A few specimens are
to be found in Sydney gardens, but the
growth there is very slow; no doubt they
would do better farther away from the sea.
The North Westralian bottle-tree, knoAvn as
the boabab, is a different sort of tree from
that found in Queensland, though the trunk
is somewhat similarly shaped.
HORSES WANTED!
“Trooper”: The excuse most frequently
offered by those who could breed good-quality
horses and don’t is that there is no sale
for them, tractors having ruined the market
for draughts, while mechanisation of the
military forces has abolished the need for
the troophorse and the gunner. As far as
draughts go, the evidence is all to the con-
trary. Sales reports show that Aus-
tralian farmers are returning to horses in
increasing numbers. As to the remounts,
The Bulletin pointed out some months
ago that over 6000 horses of this type had
left Australian shores, bound for India,
Japan and Java,, in 1930.
The Minister for Defence has now been
notified by General Anderson, Director of
Remounts for the Indian Army, that any
idea that the market for Walers is falling
off in India is so. much furphy. Annually
for years to come the Indian Army will
require some 4000 horses. Even at ruling-
prices this would represent a solid yearly
income for breeders. But under our pre-
sent haphazard system buyers lmve their
work cut out to supply even the needs of
our oavii army, restricted as they arc. If
Australia ever has to take up arms again
it is doubtful whether there Avill be enough
horses to meet local requirements.
One cannot blame the big breeder of thor-
oughbreds, for Avliom the turning-out of
standard blooded remounts Avould hardly
prove as payable in good times as the send-
ing of racing yearlings to the sales. On
the other hand, the small man Avith a feiv
likely mares cannot afford to pay even the
fees asked by owners of second- and third-
class blood stallions. The solution lies in
the adoption of some such system as that
suggested in The Bulletin recently, Avhere-
by approved stallions are subsidised by,the
State in allotted districts and their services
made available to the owners of mares at
fees well within the command of the poorest
man. English experience has shown that
the cost of this system to the Government
has been trifling, while, in addition to the
benefit accruing to owners of stallions, the
production of hunting a,nd military horses
lias been greatly increased, with a notice-
able improvement in quality.
RIB GRASS NO GOOD.
“Turnbe Munda”: A pest that, while new
to a district, is apt to be mistaken for an
asset is rib grass (or plantain). It appeared
on the land of a South Aus. neighbor, who
was struck with the attractive appearance
of the strange plant and protected it. It
proved a prolific seeder, and he did a good
trade selling seed. But .he was fated to
become unpopular, for the grass was found
to be a very poor fodder and was choking
everything else out. I have known cases in
which it has taken possession of the orchard
as well as several small paddocks.
The only method of control I know is to
crowd sheep on rib grass when it is flowering.
Stock are very fond of the flower heads, and
this explains why it is slow to get out into
the pastures. A warning has come from
Maoriland that, where repeated applications
of sulphate of ammonia have been made, rib
grass lias quickly gained the mastery of other
grasses.
There are, of course, many districts where
rib grass is unknown. If you see a plant
throwing up ribbed leaves, dark green, up to
ltin. wide by 9in. long, with a fleshy crown
at ground level, better root it out.
SUPER. IN THE STOCK-LICIv.
“Yeoman” : “Western District (B. 3/6/’31)
is misinformed when he insists that super,
is not used in licks by farmers nor
the trade because it is too liable to scour.
While I admit that sterilised bonemeal is
generally preferable for a lick in which
phosphorus is required, I can see no objec-
tion to the use of super., because super, is
readily available where bonemeal is not, and
is only about one-third the price of bone-
meal.
That super, is recommended for stock-
licks by experts is borne out by a recent
report on pig-feeding contests at Roseworthy
(S.A.). This states : “With regard to the rela-
tive effects of super., ground rock phosphate
and bonemeal (pens two, three and four re-
spectively ), it will be seen that the nigs receiv-
ing super, made a definitely more rapid
increase by approximately 11 per cent. It
can at. least be said that the super, had
no ill-effect, and as it is decidedly cheaper
than bonemeal it can apparently lie recom-
mended for incorporation in mineral mixtures
for pigs.”
Nor can I agree with the Victorian
grazier who informed “"Western District”
that sheepmen were blaming the top-dres«
ing of pastures with super, for the serious
increase in wormy iambs. This condition
must be local and due to causes hav-
ing no relation to top-dressing. As top-
dressing assures a stronger growth of herbage
with a higher percentage of mineral matter,
including phosphoric acid, it follows that the
sheep will be healthier and more vigorous
and less liable to worms.
SOIL EROSION.
“E.I1.S.”: Every year thousands of acres
of the best agricultural land in our eastern
States is rendered wholly or partially un-
productive through soil erosion. This is
noticeable in the rich mountain valleys and
alluvial flats of the foothills, especially
where the land has been denuded of indige-
nous timber and undergrowth, and hi most
cases little or no effective action has been
taken to prevent extension of the washed-
out areas. Rich alluvial flats may be seen
intersected by gullies 15ft. or 20ft. deep and
a chain or more in width : and sections of
road destroyed by erosion of the table drains
are a common spectacle. Moreover, fertile
areas downstream are covered with sand
deposited by flood waters which renders
them practically useless for agricultural pur-
poses, while the lowered water level of the
channel has the effect of draining away much
of the moisture that would otherwise be re-
tained in the subsoil, with a corresponding
diminution in the productivity of the adjoin-
ing land.
Where, the possibility of erosion exists
all drains and watercourses should be pro-
tected by planting the margins with willow
or poplar cuttings, spaced about two feet
apart. The fine, fibrous roots spread with
such rapidity below water level that the
sides and bottom of the waterway are soon
covered with a tough, spongy layer of vege-
tation that affords complete protection from
erosion. Overcropping is wrongly blamed
for loss of fertility resulting from a gradual
washing away of a uniform layer of the
rich vegetable mould which forms the sur-
face soil of scrub lands, leaving impover-
ished", boulder-strewn paddocks which once
presented a smooth surface. Much of this
damage could be prevented, or greatly mini-
mised by sowing all cleared’ burned or ring-
barked areas with stoloniferous grasses.
• LATE SOWING NECESSARY.
“Valerin”: Riverina cookies are having a
rough spin with their cropping this year.
Extra-copious rains have brought up an
abnormal growth of weeds, and where the
wheat has survived these there is serious
risk of loafing in the spring. In the first;
week of June large areas were still unsown,
and they would bog a duck.
But there is still hope. By using am -in-
creased quantity of super, and sowing early-
maturing varieties it will be safe to seed
right up to August. I have seen decent
returns got from crops sown in early Sep-
tember, but it’s not worth the risk.
FEEDING GRAIN TO COWS.
“Curlew”: There is tremendous v r aste in
feeding whole grain to cattle. In chewing
the cud they fail to bring grains back;
while fibrous material will be ground up
so finely that the greater portion will be
digested, it is not so with grain. This is
unfortunate; the grain is much the more
valuable.
A Vic. firm has brought out a chaffcutter
that cuts the chaff, separates the grain amd
grinds it, grading the grain into three
samples, suitable for horses, cattle, pigs and
poultry. Oaten or wlieaten hay, barley
sheaves or pea hay can be treated ; and the
ground grain may be used in any proportion
Avith the chaff. In a demonstration on a
farm four sheaves of hay gave 151 b. of
, ground oats; four kerosene-tins of chaff
yielded 1211 b. oats; two kei'osene-tins of
chaff, another sample, gave 811 b. oats.
The adoption of this machine will mean
much to dairymen and almost obviate the
use of bran and other concentrates.
OVER-PRODUCTION A DANGER.
A warning to banana-growers, present and
prospective, appears in the June number of
the N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette.” It is
pointed out that in four years the area
under bananas has increased from 1846
acres to over 7000 acres —1500 acres more
than in the peak year of 1922. “If this
rate of progress continues,” tlie “Gazette”
writers (Messrs G. C. Savage and R. J.
Benton) insist, “the industry is not likely
to remain in an economically sound position.
Even if the area were kept at its present
figure, in tw T o years production, estimated at
80 cases per acre per year, Avill amount
to 560,000 cases—loo,ooo cases in excess
of the 1922 yield. The present mar-
kets, unless distribution methods improve,
seem incapable of absorbing this anticipated
production at payable prices to the producer,
and further plantings next season will aggra-
vate the position.”
So before deciding to plant bananas next
season prospective growers are advised to
consider the outlook. If they decide to go
ahead they are departmentally recommended
to begin their preparations this month—it
is necessary to have the timber down at
least three months —and plant only in good
soil in a well-sheltered position with an
easterly-to-northerly aspect. Virgin country
is the best. To minimise the likelihood of
poor burns, which were frequent last year,
good felling and sufficient time between fell-
ing and firing are important. Before putting
an axe into the trees, all undergrowth should
first be brushed—brushing of lantana can
be delayed till six or eight weeks before
planting. As it is the undergrowth and trash
Avliich carry the fire through the fallen
timber, they require to be Avell beaten down
and compacted. In heavy and big timber
this may not be necessary, as the heavy trees
will crush the undergrowth, but Avliere the
trees are small or sparse good brushing
and cutting up of the undergrowth are essen-
tial. Lantana needs chopping up when
brushing to get a good solid mass to fire
successfully.
All trees should be felled cleanly, making
sure they are freed from the stumps remain-
ing. Any trees slightly connected to the
butts by strips of wood or even bark remain
green, and when fired do not burn readily.
PROTECTING MAIZE.
“Cob ’: Protection of stored grain from
insect infestation is one of the problems of
the Australian maize-grower. The popular
method is fumigation with bisulphide of
carbon, but it is expensive because of the
high rail freights charged owing to its
inflammability—also a drawback to its
employment. In addition, fumigation has to
be constantly repeated, which makes it a
nuisance to the small farmer with plenty to do.
Experiments in America have evolved a
method which, while it is cheap and safe,
will keep the maize immune from attack for
at least six months. The treatment docs
not interfere with germination, and stock
are not affected. It consists in coating the
gram with a lubricating-oil emulsion which
can be made up at home from the following
formula: Light-grade lubricating oil, 1 gal-
lon ; Avater, 1 quart; potassium oleate, lib. to
21b.. according to the hardness of the Avater.
Boil oil, oleate and water together for five
minutes, being careful not to burn; then
mix or beat Avell into an emulsion. To use,
(Continued on -page 26.)


Production of Commercial Butter in N.S.W. during 1929 &.'}o
(in millions of lbs.)
12 -1
11
10 H
9
8 -\
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEP. OCT. NOV. DEC
19 2 9
JAN. FEB. WAR. APR. MAY. JUNE JULY AUG. SEP. OCT. NOV. DEC
1930
Dairy Farmers!
During the winter months
you lose half your income!
The above graphical chart shows very clearly how each year herd production
drops to half its volume, and with it goes the farmer’s income.
To combat this slug and to make to-day’s low prices show you a profit you
must feed.
The only f ee(^n Q that pays is the “balanced ration.”
LAST winter, under controlled test, the
production of 74 herds on the North
Coast of N.S.W. was more than doubled
by feeding a “balanced ration.” In each
case the ration of farm-grown crops was
“balanced” with small, economical allowances
of Meggitt’s Linseed Meal.
This valuable concentrate food supplies the
type of nourishment which the farm cannot
supply for itself. “Meggitt’s” is as essential to
making a “balanced ration” with crops of
maize, saccaline, sorghum, cow-cane, etc., as
butter is to bread.
The progressive dairy-farmer should send
to the Advisory Department of Meggitt,
Limited, Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney, par-
ticulars of his pasture and proposed winter
rations. Copy of a brochure on “The Winter
Feeding of Dairy Cattle” will be forwarded
to him, together with a report on the analysis
and “balance” of the rations submitted. This
free service will help very materially in in-
creasing the winter production of dairy herds,
and in eliminatiing some of the huge loss
of revenue, approximately £1,000,000 per
annum, from which the industry suffers
between June and October each year.
Lbs.of
Milk
6,000_
5.000_
Avcracje yield of milk per cow per annum in lbs.
(International Bureau oT Agricultural Statistics)
5740 5714 ro SCALE
5200
4449
4.000 —:
3587
3414
2903
3.000__
1,000 —:
i,ooo_
OT. BRITAN DENMARK GERMANY NORWAY IRELAND USA AUSTRALIA
Feed
meggitts
LINSEED
OIL
MEAL
for Increased Production


■HHi
'
■
■
Save money
here’s extra wear!
This is an extra strong Abbey
Cossack. . . .made to cut down
your boot bill. It has a double
sole of the ruggedest leather
obtainable. The upper is lined,
too, with soft leather.... giving
it a double thickness.
The Abbey Cossack is flexible
and comfortable. It outwears
any ordinary working b00t...
longer service is guaranteed.
And it is ideal for the roughest
conditions.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- and 40/-
Black Box Calf 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
PPL 234
si^ss£3l
TQ
S 5
€fl<.
t o«*
!STa?^
r.-rTuiiviw
.»•
SS- I** 1 **
A pictorial
gnide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States- It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
Lack home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Write to Dept. Mf»S,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ARMERS...
RuRAL-ToPICS.DaIRYING.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
F
Horticulture. Veterinary
l« Notes Etc ....All in ..I
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES <3?I
Mick Simmons
;/ i
,'A
CUN^RIFLE
'g/l
C « 1 w \s/ .
SPECIALISTS
Shooting Equipment from the leading
English, American and Continental Manu-
facturers.
No. 18.—THE CERT
D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.
Steel barrels, left choke, extension rib, bar
locks, crossbolt, walnut -/l O //"
stock, pistol grip "t I4* O
Carriage Paid.
No. 19—CERT D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN
12 or 20G.
32in. steel barrels, choke, Greener cross-
bolt (Anson and Deeley „ ,
action) / * /*"*
Carriage Paid.
FAMOUS
ENGLISH
GUNS
No. 3 HOLLIS'
“THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.
Top lever, bar action, 32in.
barrels, both choke, rebounding
crossbolt, snap fore-end,
J-pistol grip, walnut stock .
Carriage Paid.
steel
locks,
£l5
No. 4-HOELIS’
D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.
Similar to No. 3, but lighter « i /l o /
build; weight about 71b.,£1*/I
Carriage Paid.
No. 7 HOLLIS’
D.8.8.E. HAMMER-
LESS GUN, 12G.
Top lever, 32in. steel barrels, both
choke, A. and D. action. Greener
crossbolt, chambered for 2§in. cart-
ridges, pistol grip; „•« «. ,
weight about 7 Jib. . . tjX / / “
Carriage Paid.
CD Z
The New
0.12-WINCHESTER
IN GEE SHOT
RIFLE,
MODEL 60,
fsd
For 22-short,
long or long-rifle
rim-fire cartr id ges;
23in. round steel barrel,
one-piece pistol-grip stock, bolt
action, ladder rear- and gold-
bead front-sight; weight ab’t 4Jlb.
Postage 2/-; Other Stales 3/6.
MR. LIONEL H. BIBBY
Firearms and Ammunition Expert, is at
the service of Sportsmen on any matter
pertaining to Shooting.
The New Shooting Price List is post free
on request.
All Letters to Box 188. P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsLtd.
72 0 HAVMA KIiK T. SYF)N K V.
“Australia's Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
mix 1 gallon of emulsion to 10 gallons of
water. A quart of this diluted emulsion
will do for a bushel of maize in the cob.
Put the cobs into a slatted crate and dip
into the mixture, and after dipping dry and
store with as little handling as possible.
It is apparently the thin film of. oil sur-
rounding each kernel that warns off the
insects.
POINTS FOR INCUBATOR-USERS.
“Jack Point” : Gather the eggs to he set
frequently, so that they won’t get soiled, and
keep them in a cool place. The fresher they
are put into the incubator the better. Try
to avoid having more than seven days between
the oldest and newest, as this will prolong
the hatching period. Cull the eggs drasti-
cally, setting only those of good size, shape-
and shell texture. Eggs with thin weak
shells or of abnormal size or shape are
generally laid by hens with weaknesses which
unfit them as breeders.
Run the machine according to the maker’s
instructions, but also use your common-
sense. Remember that no manufacturer
could lay down hard-and-fast rules that
would apply to all countries with their
different climatic conditions.
During the last week of the hatch, don’t
be afraid to give the eggs a good airing at
turning time. The tendency is to give rather
too little than too much; a sitting hen
frequently spends half an hour or so off the
nest. When the first egg chips close the
machine, and don’t open it until the hatch
is complete—this will be 24 hours at most.
Helping weak chickens out to lead a miser-
able existence is cruelty.
And don’t kill chicks with kindness by
feeding them within 48 hours of hatching.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Which is the more effective as a drench
for stomach worms in sheep: copper sul-
phate and mustard , or a 2-c.c. dose of carbon
tetrachloride ? —3749.
About equal in their effect on the worms,
but copper sulphate is safer to use.
(1) Gan cancer be caused an sheep’s ears
by earmarking or cuts when shearing? (2)
Gan this form of cancer be cured by ampu-
tating the ear? —3Bs6.
(1) The cause of cancer has never been
definitely established, but it frequently
occurs at the site of some previous irritation,
such as earmarks. (2) Yes, if treatment is
given in the early stages. It may not be
necessary to amputate the ear entirely, but
care should be taken to make the excision
beyond the cancer area, in the healthy tissue,
so as to insure that no portion of the malig-
nant growth is left behind.
What was the result of the N.S.W. Agri-
culture Department’s experiments with
second-grade wheat for bread-making? —36s9.
Millers’ flour (check) : 134 21b. loaves to
2001 b. sack; volume of loaf, 2932 c.c.’s.
F.a.q.: 133 loaves; volume, 2986 e.c.’s.
Second quality: 130 loaves; volume,
3486 c.c.’s.
Prices ruling at the end of January each
year for the last five years for bagged wheat
ex trucks Sydney, and the equivalent of those
prices at country sidings? —379l.
Jan. 30, 1927: ex trucks Sydney, per
bushel, ss. 2Jd., equivalent at country siding,
4s. 71d.; 1928: ss. and 4s. Bd.; 1929:
4s. 7d. and 45.; 1930: ss. and 4s. 5d.; 1931:
2s. and Is. 7^d.
What is the correct method of milking—
front teats first and then the back teats, or
vice versa? —3644.
No hard-and-fast rule can be laid down,
as the matter is largely dependent upon the
formation of the individual cow’s udder.
Most dairymen, unless there is some reason
for variation, milk the two front quarters
first.
(1) Number of hives necessary to give a
return of £250 clear p.a. from an apiary?
(2 ) Is the district between Harden and Junee
(N.S.W.) suitable? (3) Capital necessary?
(4) Where can detailed information be
obtained? (5) Is it necessary to obtain per-
mission of landholders over whose property
bees may range? (6) Is honey production
a main business or a side-line? —3399.
(1) About 150. A good deal depends on
management and location. (2) Some parts
are suitable. (3) About £3OO. (4) From
N.S.W. Agriculture Department. (5) No.
(6) A main business.
Could a living be made growing logan-
berries on a commercial scale? If so, some
advice on culture and marketing? —376B.
Loganberry growing should only be carried
on as a side-line. N.S.W. Agriculture Depart-
ment will advise, if asked, on methods of
culture.
My date-palm is fully loaded with fruit
of a golden yellow and very sweet, but the
stone is very soft and does not harden. Do
they have to be put through an artificial
ripening process to make them the same as
the sort sold in shops? —372l.
The male and female flowers of the date-
palm are grown on separate plants; conse-
quently it. is necessary to grow both types
~ n r to ensure that the dates will be
tertilised Probably your fruit is not fer-
tihsed. Dates for packing are slightly dried,
which is often done by artificial means.
Where can the seed of the loofah vine be
obtained m Sydney? When to harvest, how
and where to sell the loofahs?—
« J A. Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street,
™ at 2 ?- Per ounce. The seeds should be
U t • Spr l ms ' about sft apart. The vines
heiffhf wn °l\. su PP O1 ’ts about sft. in
ooWtlm^. 011 * hp gourds turn yellowish in
"om-rlc Yif aie . n Pe for harvesting. Place the
week -m, ter ’ Preferably running, for one
rhofiK,n d th - e * p . rcss tlle seeds and pulp off
the fibroua interior. The loofahs are then
’L , air a, id graded according to
Wholesale chemists, such as Elliott
purehase aSh " lg ° U IL Soul and Co - might
(1) Ingredients of the fowl tonic known
as Douglas mixture? (2) Address of a Vic.
pheasant breeder? (3) Is it permissible to
import a mongoose into Vic. for the purpose
o 1 killing snakes? —3B63.
(1) Half a gallon of boiling water is
poured on to Mb. of copperas (sulphate of
non.) When cool a fluid ounce of sulphuric
acid is stirred in. This must he done in an
earthenware vessel, no metal should be
used, nor should this mixture be added to
the drinking water contained in any metal
receptacle. The amount used is one table-
spoon of the mixture to each quart of
drinking water once or twice a week. The
Vic. Agriculture Department does not recom-
mend its use, (2) W. Forster Woods,
Lowlands, Macedon. (3) No. Importation,
is prohibited.
(1) Would it He profitable to plant a small
plantation of sandalwood in (/land? (2)
How long before the trees would be ready
for the market? (3) Anything known about
cultural methods? (4) Is there likely to be
permanent demand for sandalwood? —2729.
(1) Probably not. as seed supplies and
germination are irregular and unreliable and
little is known about the cultivation of this
plant. (2) 30 to 50 years. Even then the
percentage of fragrant sandalwood would
vary and might average only 50 per cent, of
wood volume. (3) Seed should be sown
when collected (generally about June, but this
varies) in sandy loam to under the
surface and watered daily in hot weather.
The seedlings should reach from 6in. to 12in.
in height in the first year. Coppice shoots
from stems lin. diameter and upwards grow
up to 3ft. per year in height. The species
requires very little shade even when ger-
minating and must be raised under warm
climatic conditions. (4) Yes.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin” : Do the lamb-marking in damp
weather or soon after rain. Dusty yards
harbor tetanus germs, and there’s nothing
causes a greater loss of lambs. If possible,
have the flock back in its paddock not later
than 4 p.m.—this gives the ewes a chance
of mothering their lambs before dark —but
in putting it back make a point of hold-
ing the flock, otherwise the hungry ewes
will scatter away feeding; the younger and
weaker lambs, left behind, wander away on
their own. Lambs may be worth money
this year and it will pay to give them a
little attention.
“Sylvester”: Like “Mudgee” (B. 3/6/’3l),
I have found some trees grow over after
being ring-barked; the pink box of south-
east Queensland is notorious for this. The
remedy I have found is to let the axe enter
the sap all round, or else take a light chip
out. If any small nodules, like pinheads
of bark, show, cut into the sap.
“Floodmark” : A cheap and quick method
of making a wool-rolling table is to use
ordinary rabbit-proof netting, full width and
Bft. long, pulled taut and wired to a
wooden frame of same size. Nail four 4in.
x 2in. sawn timber 3ft. lengths for legs. A
6in. flooring-board nailed from leg to leg at
the ground, bagging tacked between it and
top boards, and you have a light, service-
able table, easily lifted, with locks, second-
cuts and short wool falling through the
netting mesh, kept to themselves by the
bagging.
“Eureka”: Not enough care is taken when
feeding young calves on pollard, with the
result that the calves suffer from scours or
indigestion. It is necessary that the water
used should be boiling; mix to a consistency
of gruel and allow it to cool. Keep the pol-
lard stirred while feeding to the calves.
“Jack Point”: In Queensland some bore
water is harmful to fowls and some is better
for them than rain water. It depends in
part on how much evaporation takes place
between bore-head and drinking vessel;
water quite wholesome at bore-head might
become unsafe after a large percentage of
it had evaporated and left behind a bigger
ratio of minerals. If you have no choice
in the matter, let the hens have the bore
water as fresh as possible and don’t add any
other minerals, such as Epsom salts or
sulphur.
The Graziers’ Association of N.S.W. has
suggested a conference to discuss means of
dealing with the buffalo-fly threat, and the
suggestion has been heartily endorsed by
the Queensland Cattlegrowers’ Associa-
tion. The meeting will probably be held in
Brisbane, where personal experience of the
pest can easily be got. It is now up to
the various dairying associations in Queens-
land and northern N. S. Wales to support
the new movement, for their rich industry
is threatened along with that of the
beef man. So far there has been a
feeling in the other States that Queensland
should check the fly’s progress herself with-
out expecting financial help from the Com-
monwealth. The calling of the conference is
at least an indication that some of these
objectors are awakening to the fact that the
danger is to Australia rather than to any one
State.
“Titre”: It looks as if the cane-harvester
has arrived. Further reports from R. S.
Falkiner to the Queensland Agent-General
state that the Southern Sugar Co., of
Florida, which has recently harvested
100.000 tons of caue with his machines, has
declared them a commercial success. Know-
ing Yankee methods, that means that the
question of costing has been very thoroughly
gone into, which is important. The Ameri-
cans get world parity for their sugar, that
being something under £6 per ton. If the
machine can satisfy the American grower
under those conditions, it is likely to com-
pletely revolutionise the industry in Aus-
tralia, where the fixed price for home con-
sumption this year will probably be £22 Bs.
per ton. As to output, one machine cuts
20 tons per hour. On last available figures
the average daily cut for a single hand-
gang worker in North Queensland is 3.9
tons and the cost of cutting about 7s. 6d.
per ton.
The success of the Mareeba tobacco farms
thrown open by the Queensland Government
and the quality of the cigarette tobacco
from them have done much to advertise the
merits of the locally-grown weed, while the
Texas growers, producing tobacco of a dif-
ferent type, yet equally good, have also been
encouraged by raised tariffs to take up again
what was once a paying pursuit in that dis-
trict. Brisbane recently staged a “Tobacco
Week,” when shop windows were full of the
local product, both cake and cut, with fine-
cut cigarette as the specialty. Local smokers
are taking well to the stuff, while most
encouraging reports on export possibilities
have come from the Empire Tobacco Federa-
tion, which has its headquarters in London
It is stated that Queensland growers work-
ing only five-acre plots—the present areas in
vogue at Mareeba—-are making a good living.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined "to one subject, ''
The I'ight of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Gardener, Sydney, exp., wants work by day or
hour. Refs. —3969.
Young man, literary exp., has conducted small
weekly, wants position on staff of country paper.
Go anywhere.—39so.
Returned soldier, small private income, wants
partner in strawberry-growing at N.S.W. lakeside
resort. —3960.
Stenographer-bookkeeper, N.S.W., wants position
in country town or on station as clerk or com-
panion.—3946.
House renovator and decorator, Sydney, wants
work anywhere. Refs.- —3939.
Girl (20), N.S.W., exp. drapery and grocery, will
assist in country store for good home and. small wage.
Refs.—3944.
Man, 16 years’ exp. as overseer, head stockman,
wool-classer, etc., wants position on Q’land station.
Refs.—39B7.
Ladies’ hairdresser (male), Sydney, ex-Service, 12
years’ Continental exp., English diploma, wants em-
ployment anywhere.—399o. ,
Nurse, three years’ exp., wants position as attend-
ant to semi-invalid. Refs.—399l.
Two Tasmanians, exp. sawmill, station, all kinds
of bush work, want jobs in N.5.W.—3924.
Governess (22) desires position in Q land. Assist
house. Refs. —3901.
Grazier’s daughter, Q’land (19), desires position
as governess, teach children, 6 to 10 years, by cor-
respondence system.—39o2.
By mother and daughter, N.S.W., position cooking
and light housework. Five years last place.-—3930.
Strong young girl (W.A.), exp. as waitress and
on farm, wants position somewhere in the N.-W.
Refs.—3936.
Wanted £lOOO, to purchase 50 acres land, Vic.
Will work on share, tenant or hire-purchase (5 p.c.
and bonus). —4010.
Qualified accountant (Melbourne), 10 years’ exp.,
wants clerical work anywhere.—4o42.
Gentlewoman (27), Vic., domesticated, able drive
car, seeks employment town or country.—4o27.
To buy steel-centred fly rod, by reliable maker.
—4003,
To buy “Bushman and Buccaneer.” —4049.
To buy old novels in one volume or m0re. —3923.
To buy plumage .of a kookaburra, a white cockatoo
and a wild duck. —3902.
To buy Kipling’s “Light That Failed” and books
by Louis Becke and Conan Doyle.—3BB6.
To buy “The ’Bus Conductor,” by Barry Pain.
—3954.
To buy about 50 back numb rs of The Bulletin
from 1917 to 1919.—3956.
To buy colored chart, “Distinguishing Badges of
the A.1.F.,” issued shortly after the war. —3945.
To exchange quantity of modern novels for second-
hand Webster’s Dictionary, recent edition.—39B4.
Words of Australian recitation “Numerella.”—
3981.
Words of verse beginning “Mulga Bill from Eagle-
hawk, he caught the cycling craze.” —3922.
Words of verse by “The Lost Soul” beginning “The
Devil he gave me a horse to ride.”—39l7.
Words of verses “The Proud Miss Mcßride.”
4026.
Whereabouts of the Mirano Bros., late of Fullers’
Circuit. —3904.
Information Sought.
What amount did the British Government
make available to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment for each migrant coming here? Was
it a gift or a loan? If a loan, what were the
rate of interest and conditions? Who paid
the migrants’ fares, and what expense did
the Commonwealth bear in bringing out
migrants? —34B7.
The scheme which you evidently have in
mind is that embodied in the “£34,000,000
Agreement” ; under this the Commonwealth
Government raised loans and the British
Government made contributions roughly
equivalent to one half the interest for a term
of 10 years on moneys expended. States
participating were to receive and “satisfacj
torily settle” a migrant for every £75
expended. Migration, except for a small
number of individual cases, has now ceased
and the agreement is generally in abeyance.
The assistance given to the migrant in
respect of his passage to this country was
shared equally by the British and Common-
wealth Governments. Domestic servants
and children under 12 were carried free;
other classes of migrants received substan-
tial concessions.
How and when did the English practice of
having a sham plaintiff, John Doe, and sham
defendant, Richard Roc, in some ■ actions,
originate? When did it fizzle oat?.- —3745.
It was a mode of proceeding for eject-
ment (the recovery of land) introduced dur-
ing the Protectorate by Lord Chief Justice
Rolle. A clean sweep of the device was made
by the Common Law Procedure Act of 1852.
My son, aged 17, wishes to become appren-
ticed to a firm of analysts in 1V.8.W. Do
such firms accept apprentices and, if so, under
icliat conditions? Would it be necessary for
him to supplement his daily work with Uni-
versity or Technical College instruction?
What course of study would he have to take
in that ease?- —3674.
An analyst practising privately might
accept an articled pupil at a premium of up
to £lOO, the position carrying a small salary.
The intending pupil should satisfy. himself
that the analyst’s laboratory covers a suffi-
ciently wide field to enable him later on to
shift for himself. There is an increasing ten-
dency for concerns to employ their own
chemists, and thus it might be better for a
beginner; tp enter a: labprqtoyy pf such.# con-
cern. An essential foundation of a success-
ful career is an education up to the higher
leaving-certificate standard, which should be
followed by studies at the Uni. to secure a
degree in science or engineering.
(1) Are whiting and red ochre produced
in Australia, and where? (2) Price, whole-
sale, in Sydney? (3) What is red ochre
used for? (4) What is whiting used for?
—3307. ~ , , . ■
(1) No true whiting is produced m Aus-
tralia. Red ochre is found in limited quan-
tities in many localities throughout the
Commonwealth. (2) English whiting, £7
per ton in 3cwt. casks and 7s. 9d. per cwt.
in quantities less than 3cwt. Red ochre, £2
to about £0 per ton, depending upon shade
and strength of color. (3) Mainly in the
manufacture of paints. (4) In the manu-
facture of cold-water paints and putty, as
a filler in textiles and paper, and for clean-
ing plate, etc.
(1) What are the duties of an insurance
broker? (2) By whom is he paid? _ (2)
Is there an insurance brokers' association
in Sydney? —3671.
(1) He acts between persons insuring and
insurance cos., and his work includes per-
sonal inspection of risks, the drawing up
of proposal forms, checking the policies,
verifying the rates of premium, and gener-
ally safeguarding the interests of the in-
sured. (2) He. gets commission from insur-
ance cos. with which he places business. (3)
Yes.
(1) Is there much demand for plots for
the cinema? (2) lloiv could one learn the
technique of scenario-writing? (3) Is there
a demand for scenarios locally? (4) Any
demand in the V.S.A.? —3779.
(1) Very slight. (2) No way save by
contact with the few individuals in
this country who have had experience. (3)
The only person at present engaged in mak-
ing pictures who might be interested would
be F. W. Thring, Eftce Productions, Mel-
bourne. (4) Practically no demand for
original unpublished stories. American pro-
ducers have been bitten so often with copy-
right troubles that they now rely almost
entirely on their own staffs for material.
(1) Would a 10 in. bore, 22 in. stroke twin-
cylinder steam-engine fitted with a 6 ft. dia-
meter driving-pulley have more power if
fitted with a fly-wheel? If so, what should
be its weight? (2) What r.p.m. would give
most power? —-3806.
(1) No. The pulley serves as a fly-
wheel. (2) Maximum of which the engine
is capable.
Who are liable for service on juries in
NSW.? Who are exempted from, service?
—3873. .
Any male resident above the age ot
with a clear yearly income of £3O from real
and personal estate, or with real and per-
sonal estate of the value of £3OO or more,
is liable. The principal exceptions are
foreign subjects whose term of residence
is less than seven years, and persons attainted
of treason or felony. Men especially exempt
include Judges, members of Parliament, cer-
tain public officers, Federal civil servants,
members of the defence forces, employees of
the State Government, clergymen, bar-
risters, solicitors, magistrates, police officers,
doctors, dentists, chemists, schoolmasters,
certain employees of banks, incapacitated
persons and men above the ago of 60 who
claim exemption.
How to convert Fahrenheit and Reaumur
readings into Centigrade? —3B64.
Subtract 32 from Fahrenheit reading;
multiply result by 5; divide product by
9. Multiply Reaumur reading by 5 and
divide by 4.
(1) When was the single-finger-print sys-
tem established at N.S.W. Police head-
quarters? (2) Has it proved satisfactory?
(3) In how many criminal cases last, year
were finger-prints produced as evidence
against accused? —3996.
(1) Aug. 21, 1929. (2) Yes. (3) 31.
(1) Were any newspapers published by
the New Australia colonists in Paraguay?
(2) Are copies available for inspection in
Sydney ? —3998.
(1) They issued a manuscript journal,
“Cosme Evening Notes.” It was read aloud
every evening except Sundays for the first
four years, after which it became a weekly.
The “Cosme Monthly,” a four-page octavo
newspaper, was issued from the founding
of the colony (1894) until 1903, when it
changed its name to “Cosme” for a few
issues, and came out as a quarterly. It
was printed in the colony and mailed away
for propaganda purposes. (2) Yes, at the
Mitchell Library.
(1) How big are the marsupial moles of
Centralia, and how can they be identified?
(2) • What do they live on? (3) Does Binghi
include them on his menu?- —4002.
(1) About 6in. long. The mole has a rudi-
mentary tail, a silky, brown-furred body flat-
tened towards the ground, four very short but
very strong legs and a. snout protected by a
horny shield.'lt is'nfeckless, externally earless
and sightless, its incompletely developed eyes
being buried in its tOugli skin. The female’s
pouch opens backwards. (2) Ants and
insects. For these it burrows through sand-
hills just below the surface, emerging now
and then to breathe. (3) Yes.
(1) When can old rose bushes be shifted?
(2) Best time to put in rose cutttings and
varieties which strike easily?— 4ooo.
As soon as possible before the roots throw
out. new fibres (or spring growth). Water
the soil heavily an hour before starting to
dig. Make a big hole around the shrub in
order to get as much of the roots as possible.
After planting, prune the limbs back. (2)
Cuttings can be put in up to the end of
July. Short pieces of last year’s wood placed
in soil containing a big proportion of sand
will do well. Maman Cochet (pink and
white), Radiance (pink and red), Frau
Karl Druschki (white) and Hadley (dark
red) grow well from cuttings.
I wish to make a curved concrete window-
box for holding flowers. (1) How to do
it? (2) Proportion of mixture?— 4ool.
Make a mould of galvanised iron or wood,
leaving drainage holes where they will not
interfere with the building or look unsightly.
Sides should be 3in. thick at the base, taper-
ing to lin. at the top. (2) The first mix-
ture should be two of ashes or fine metal
shale to one each of sand and cement. Ho
not make it too wet, or the cement will be
carried to the bottom. Face with two parts
cement and one part sand. Line with thin
wooden battens before putting in the soil,
as the cement contains chemicals that retard
plant growth for a while.
(1) Where to obtain directions for making
a small aquarium? (2) Is a small salt-water
aquarium practicable if the water is changed
daily? (3) Is it possible to keep a small
octopus in such an aquarium?— 3B4l.
(1) Eastway Bros., 357 George-street,
Sydney, publish a pamphlet. (2) Changing
the water daily is not sufficient. The water
must be aerated continuously. (3) No.
(1) How to correct under-developed film
negatives? (2) Must precautions regarding
light be taken, as in developing? —3943.
(1) By intensification. There are several
processes on the market. (2) No.
How to destroy green aphis on zinnia
plants? —3B46.
Spray with Black Leaf 40, mixed accord-
ing to the maker’s formula, with a little
emulsified soap added. Two applications
should be given at an interval of three
days, followed by a hosing.
(1) Title of book which covers all phases
of running a country sawmill? (2) Where
can 1 get first-hand information regarding
the establishment of a sawmill? —3807.
(1) Don’t know of any. (2) Try S. W.
England, sec., Associated Country Saw-
millers of N. S. Wales, Union House, Sydney.
Are fish-traps allowed in Sydney (Middle
Harbor) and, if so, what is the limit of
mesh to be used ? —3780.
Yes; to a length of 6ft.; width, sft.;
depth. 3ft. The minimum size of mesh
of sides and top is 2-Jin., and of the
bottom lin.—meshes to be measured from
plain wire to opposite plain wire.
(1) What was the name of the serum
injected into troops in Gallipoli as a cholera
preventive? (2) Distance from Lone Pine
to Maidos as the crow flies? —3424.
(1) It was not a serum, but an anti-
cholera vaccine. The first vaccines employed
had a strength of 500 million cholera bac-
cilli to the cubic centimetre, but this w T as
gradually increased to 10,000 millions per
c.c., given in two doses at intervals of seven
to ten days—first dose Jc.c., second lc.c.
(2) Four and a half miles.
(1 )When will Halley’s Comet again be
visible in Sydney? (2) Will any comets be
visible within the next three years?— 3B4o.
(1) About 1985. (2) No known comet
visible to the naked eye is due to return in
that period.
Where, when and by whom were the first
gold discoveries made in Q’land? —3940.
First discovery was made in 1853 by
Samuel Stutchbury, Government geologist of
N.S.W., who found gold near Port Curtis at
the Calliope. In August, 1856, a shepherd
on Canning Downs brought in Bdwt. from
Lord John’s Swamp. Gold was also found
that year at Emu Creek, on the way to
Gympie.
(1) How can the native shrub lime be
identified? (2) What is its botanical name?
3947
It is a much-branched shrub, armed with
horizontal spines. The fruit, which is like
a sloe, about half an inch long, contains
a milky juice and is edible. The wood is
hard and clear, and works well. Along
the grain are a number of white, pithy
streaks which give it a dotted appearance.
(21 Carissa brownii.
How to clean an emery-wheel which has
become soaked with oil? —3557:_ _
Dismount the wheel and pop it in the fire,
which will burn out the oil.
Where did the spider-monkeys at Taronga
Zoo. Sydney, come from, and how is their
name derived ? —3975.
From Brazil, where the native name for
them is coaita; the zoological name is
Ateles. The name “spider” is derived from
the slimness of the body and the elon-
gated limbs.
(1) Are there any cannibals in Maori-
land at present? (2) How long is it since
the Maoris practised cannibalism? —3938.
(1) No (2) The practice ceased very
shortly after the arrival of Europeans. No
well-authenticated cases on record later
than 1850.
(1) What is the representation of various
parties in the British House of Commons?
(2) On an average how many voters does a
member of each party represent? —39B3.
(1) At the 1929 election the results were:
Labor, 289 ; Conservative, 260; Liberal, 58;
Independent, 4; Nationalist, 3 ; Prohibition-
ist 1 (2) Labor, 32,000; Conservative,
33,000; Liberal, 90,000.
(1) What is pulverised coal and by what
process is it made? (2) Does its use reduce
fuel costs? (3) Can it be used without the
installation of special machinery? —36l9.
(I) It is coal ground to a fine dust in a
pulveriser. (2) Yes, by as much as 16
per cent., and there is also a saving m labor
costs. (3) It is generally necessary to fit
a special furnace front. There is a system
with burners specially adapted for either oil
or pulverised fuel.
(J) In the preparation of outdoor paint,
what stains are used to produce a rich choco-
late? (2) What varnish should be used, over
an oil paint as a finishing coat for doors and
sashes? —3972. . ~
(1) Chocolate is a self-color obtainable
from any dealer in such wares. (2) Don t
recommend varnishing over paint, but car-
riage varnish being made for outside use
should be satisfactory.
Information Supplied.
3729. —The “ragged thirteen” in cribbage
is .scored by the holder of two aces, 8,7, 6,
the count being 8. for 15’s plus 2 for.pair
and 3 for run. —“H. G.”
Brief Answers.
C.L.8.: (1) You should present the p.n.
for payment where made payable. (2) If the make)
fails to meet it you have recourse to the endorser.
You rank with other creditors. (3) Delay is always
dangerous Anxious: Under the N.S.W. Moratorium
Act, payment of principal cannot, without leave of
the Court, be demanded till April 30, 1033 ....
J.H.S.: (1) and (2) You are not a mortgagor, the
only security being personal, and Act is riot applic-
able to you. If lender requires a valuation before
advancing, you will have to pay for it. (3) and
(4) You pay costs; they depend on circumstances
but are regulated by scale... .F.C.: Depends on
value; obtain certificate of title, and make inquiry
at Lands Titles Office, Queen’s-square, Sydney
A.J.N.: (1) Percy Marks, 5 Hunter-street, Sydney. (2)
A general term applied to dark opal. Dealers can only
assess values on past experience and current supply
and demand. (3) A fine arrangement of colors,
combined with brilliancy and freedom from imper-
fections. (4) U.S.A. and Canada, rough, free; cut,
10 per cent, ad valorem .... L.P.: There are no red
amethysts M. J.: The value of a complete set of
“Art in Australia” is £15....8.K.: A diploma is
desirable. Those recognised by the Musical Associa-
tion of N.S.W. are those of the Australian Examina-
tion Board; Trinity College of Music, London; and
the Associated Board of the Royal Academy of
Music and Royal College of Music... .R.J.: Can’t
say what they would want in Lebanon. The proposed
attorney should have the power drawn up according
to local law in Lebanon or at Beit Mery, where he
resides. He could then forward it to Australia with
instructions as to any special formalities or require-
ments J. 8.: Ask the C.P.S. of the court where
the order was issued whether a writ of execution
can be issued. The circumstances might be veri-
fied by the police... .J.R.F.: (1) and (3) The
Moratorium Act specially excludes from its operation
“any mortgage to secure the repayment of a lorfu
to one of its members by a Starr-Bowkett.” (2) May
be bluff, but if they proceed to extremity better
see a solicitor. Apply to Savings Bank for advance.
J.T.Q.: If the creek is flowing in its natural
course, you cannot compel your neighbor to divert
it 8.C.: A hire-purchase agreement relating to
goods is deemed a mortgage. Court may readjust
amount of instalments and postpone payment, though
interest on postponed instalment would doubtless
have to be paid... .L.E.P.: Consult Stanley Gibbons *
“Air Stamp Catalogue and Guide to Aero-Philately."
. ...H.D.: Write Vie. Agriculture Dept, for leaflet
“Feeding Cows for Milk Production”... .G.R.A.: Write
to J. P. Farr, secretary, Professional Photographers’
Association, care Cruden Studios, Pitt-street, Sydney.
G.M.M.: Write to Miss Wilson, Lecturer-in-
eharge, Domestic Arts, East Sydney Tech W.A.8.:
City terminus of the Glenelg cars is at Victoria-square,
Adelaide, and passengers are brought 258 yards
north of the old Glenelg railway terminus A.A.:
“Casein and Its Industrial Application,” by Schu-
macher, 335.; Robertson and Mullens A.E.F.:
European fencing championship is held by Belgium.
J.T.: Decimal Association, 230 Finsbury
Pavement House, London, E.C.2. It aims at
universal adoption of decimal system of coin-
age, weights and measures W.C.S.: Natal
derives its name from its discovery on Christ-
mas Day, 1497, by Vasco da Gama... .R.C.D.: See
Flinders’s “Voyage to Terra Australis” and Scott’s
“Life of Captain Matthew Flinders.” A collection
of Flinders’s letters is reprinted in vols. 111-VII of
“Historical Records of New South Wales” W.W.:
(1) Federal and Commonwealth Institutes of Account-
ants hold exams, twice a year. The Brisbane address
of the former is 231 Albert-street. Write for details.
(2) No. (3) “Farm Accounts,” Bd. posted, Bulletin
Co W.L.H.: There is no book on the pronunci-
ation of foreign words and surnames. Webster’s
Unabridged Dictionary gives some
G.A.: (1) Foster Fraser’s “Amazing Argentine,”
“Panama, and What It Means,” “Russia of To-day,”
and “The Conquering Jew”; 2s. each, second-hand,
Angus and Robertson. (2) H. Glynn-Ward’s “Glamor
of British Columbia,” 15s 5.8.: “Rapid Calcu-
lations,” Angus and Robertson, 4s. 2d. posted
J.M.V.: New Guinea Goldfields, 67 York-street;
Bulolo Gold Dredging, Wingello House —both
Sydney K.M,: The only safe way with
water concerning which there is any doubt
as to purity is to boil it. .. . J.D.8.C.: Un-
employment in both countries makes it practically
useless to apply for such positions. Copra industry
in Pacific is very depressed. Write to Burns, Philp,
Sydney L.H.: Write Officer-in-charge, Corres-
pondence Course, Sydney Technical College, Harris-
street, Sydney... .J.P.: J. J. G. McGirr was Ministei
for Motherhood, also for Public Health and Labor,
in the Storey and Dooley Ministries in N.S.W. from
April, 1920, to April, 1922 S.J.S.: See articles
in the “Economic Record,” August, 1930, by H.
W. Clapp from the point of view of the railways,
and by S. Crawford from the point of view of the
motor trader J.S.: Write Widows’ Pensions
Branch, Child Welfare Dept., Education Building,
Bridge-street, Sydney W.P.P.: See “Problem of
the Birth of the Kangaroo,” by Prof. T. T. Flynn,
issued by Tas. W.E.A D. J.F.: The property is not
subject to State land tax unless it be situated in the
Western Division of N. S. Wales. The exemption
for Federal land-tax purposes is £5OOO, but a
return should be furnished... .D.C.8.: Advertise in
“Wireless Weekly,” 60 Elizabeth-street, Sydney, for
a second-hand Atwater-Kent receiver, Model 41 or 61.
J.F.H.: Don’t know any effective method of
preventing birds eating seed oats when sown and
harrowed. The use of poison is prohibited
J. 8.8.: You could write to B. Singer, Victor Build-
ings, Washington, D.C., but it would be wiser to
put the matter in the hands of a patent attorney.
U.S. patents have a currency of 17 years, and it
would cost you about £35 to obtain one, not in-
cluding cost of seai’ch... .W.J.S.: Write Guyatt and
Co., 257 a George-street, Sydney... .J.K.C.: Ashe’s
“Practical Dog Book” (£1 7s. 6d.), Leighton’s
“Book of the Dog” (13s. 6d.)... .F.0.T.: Apply
Copyright Office, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney... .F.J.M.L.: See “Australian
Encyclopaedia” and “Commonwealth Year-Book” at
the N.S.W. Public Library W.F.8.: Papuan Rural
Products, 185 Elizabeth-street, Sydney; Mandated
New Guinea Sugar Plantations, 351 Queen-street,
Brisbane L.E.C.: Write W. Walker, 91 Egan-stfeet,
Kalgoorlie (W.A.) ... .L.H.: Walls 9in. thick with -in.
cement plaster on inside walls. Malls should be
reinforced with fencing-wire rods and the corners
with iron bands. Three parts gravel to one of
cement, using five bags of cement. It will cost le»s
and last longer than galvanised tanks... .A.P.L.:
Reply is that, owing to financial position, it is im-
possible to establish additional baby-health centres.
11.11.C.: See “The Science of Flight,” by P. H.
Sumner J.T.S.: H. Thomas, 173 Pliillip-street;
IT. W. Varna, 215 George-street; Duncan Macdougall,
256 Crown-street; Montgomery Stuart, 492 George-
street —all Sydney D. 8.: No legal impediment.
G.M.C.: Agent is entitled to commission on the
whole of the sheep sold by you in consequence of
introduction to buyer G.W.R.: Elementary
musical textbooks are: “Rudiments,” by Stewart
Macpherson; “Rudiments of Music,” by C. 11.
lvitson;. and “Part I, Elements,” by Bertenshaw.
Singing can only be taught personally. . . .(Many
others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £lOO IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J.HARDIE
Synopsis : Margaret Kennedy, on her
way to Corella station, in North
Queensland, whither she has been in-
vited by Tom Donaldson, father of
her school friend, has the wild and
woman-shy stockman Ken Craig de-
scribed to her in startling detail by
Harry the mailman. Suddenly the
horses take fright and boltj Harry is
thrown off, and Margaret is left alone
on the coach. She is rescued from a
seemingly inevitable crash into the
creck-bed below by the decisive action
of Craig, who, riding out of the bush,
shoots the leading horses, and orders
Margaret, who is dressed like a boy,
to help him cut the others loose. She
tries, but the strain is too much, and
she falls unconscious. Craig, who
had mistaken her for what she looked
like, and used language accordingly, is
more embarrassed than ever when he
discovers Ms mistake. They go on
together to the station, where Donald-
son is pleased to have her as company
for his daughter, Peggy. Margaret
falls under the spell of Craig's roman-
tie personality, though she resents the
fact that he is repeatedly doing
things that appear to her to put her
in his debt. The latest of these is
letting her take his favorite pony,
Dawn, without protest. He goes away
to help a queer character, Larry
Nolan, unth his horses, and before he
returns to Corella Larry gives him a
magnificent black, which lie calls
Eaglehawk.
CHAPTER VIII ( Continued ).
SINCE the day Ken had first set eyes on
the- black horse it had occupied his
thoughts to the exclusion of everything
else. Now fragrant memories of .the girl he
had met in the ranges rushed back on him;
the pale., regular features, with that wistful,
haunted expression of the eyes; then the
slim, graceful calm-eyed girl astride of
Dawn.
This must be still another side to her
character.
The music from the house ended in soft,
lingering chords, and the man rose hurriedly,
re-arranging his thoughts as he passed diffi-
dently through the little white gate and
stepped on the verandah.
At the sound of his footsteps a chair
creaked and a white form appeared at the
comer.
“Who’s there?”
“It’s me, Miss Donaldson.”
“Hullo, stranger! Come in!” Her fresh
hearty voice called out: “Here’s Ken, Dad!”
“Come in, Ken!” boomed the big voice
from the dark, and as he moved towards
it a dark figure stepped from the lighted
doorway—Mr. Heath. In the room behind
him he caught a glimpse of a slim figure
in cool blue, the brown head bowed over
the keyboard.
“Good night, Mr. Donaldson. ’Night, Mr.
Heath.”
“Chair in front of you. What’s all your
news?” The big, deep voice was comfort-
able and steadying.
“Have you had dinner?” demanded the
practical Peggy.
“Yes, thanks. I got in at sundown,” he
replied, then sat awkwardly upright in his
chair wishing Heath would clear out and
give him a chance to talk freely.
Peggy seemed to sense his restraint and
gallantly came to the rescue, dragging in-
doors the unwilling book-keeper, who felt
there was some news here and he wanted
to be in it.
“Find Nolan all right?” Donaldson
queried.
“Yes—he picked me up and took me to
his camp.” Then, hurriedly, hoping to
avoid a possible question: “He’s a touchy
old devil—I don’t think he wants it to get
about where he camps!”
The big man grunted, but respected the
warning and avoided the subject, dearly
as he would have cared to know.
“Any good horses?”
“Taking them all round, they’re a good
lot. We have seen only the culls down
here. A lot of them are fit to win good
races down below.”
“Yes?”
Ken could almost see the uplift of the
bushy eyebrows in the dark, but continued
haltingly: “As a matter of fact, the old
chap gave me one, a black stallion—finest
horse I ever saw.” He checked his rhapsody.
“The thing is, do you mind if I keep him
at Cattle Camp?”
Tom Donaldson made no sign. He
sensed the ultimatum in the question. The
young man’s voice was quiet, yet there was
that in the tone which said: “I go with
the horse—take it or leave it!”
He had indirectly accepted the job as
head stockman, and this was his price. The
leonine head lifted.
“Good sort t>f horse, did you say? Well
bred?”
“Better than anything we ever saw!”
Ken’s voice was earnest —he had taken a
risk, but having committed himself it was
all or nothing.
“It’s a bit strong, asking a man to
believe that Larry Nolan would give away
a horse like that!”
“I know that. I couldn’t believe it
myself when he offered it, but he’s a bit
soft about—about that time the snake bit
him! ”
“Um-m!” The big man’s tone gave noth-
ing away.
“I’ve only just broken him in and I want to
keep him out of the way for a while, so I
was reckoning on going down to Cattle
Camp before daylight—l’ll take Jerry with
me.”
Donaldson’s curiosity to see the horse
that the usually undemonstrative Ken
was so worked up about was suddenly
damped, but he decided it was only just.
However, the horseman in him decided on a
visit to Cattle Camp in the near future.
“Right you are then, Ken! Take him
down in the morning and see how things
are going there. Better come up the day
after and get your stores and the gear
you’ll need. I have a springcart ready for
you, but we’ll fix that up later. Don’t go
yet!” he remonstrated as Ken rose. “Peggy!
Did you say supper was ready?” he boomed.
“Won’t be a minute, Dad,” she called
from the kitchen.
Ken awkwardly entered the lighted room
behind the big man.
“Good evening, Mr. Craig!”
He turned at the crisp, clear voice.
Margaret stood framed in the far doorway.
“Good evening, Miss Kennedy!” He felt
awkward, but for the life of him couldn’t
think of anything to say.
“Did you have a good trip?”
“Not too bad, thanks.”
What could he talk about now? He felt
inclined to ask how Dawn was getting on,
but that smacked of patronage and was
instantly abandoned.
Peggy entered, followed closely by Heath,
and Ken felt conscious of the uncouth
figure he must cut against the well-groomed
book-keeper, who always seemed to say the
right thing at the right time and was very
much at his ease. If he had only realised
it, Margaret was thinking how much better
he looked in the easy lines of the soft,
white shirt showing the sunburnt v at the
neck, and the riding-cut gabardine trousers,
than in the orthodox dress of civilisation.
He allowed the others to carry on the
conversation, and rose to leave as soon as he
decently could.
Tom Donaldson lazily shifting his pipe,
grinned mischievously through half-closed
eyes. “How long were you sitting outside
before you came in, Ken?”
The young man looked round quickly to
find three pairs of interrogating eyes on
him.
The big voice chuckled deeply. “You
want to knock all the ‘bindy-eyes’ off your
pants next time. Ha, ha! It must have
been the music, Margaret!”
Ken felt helpless. He was fairly caught,
and there was only one thing to do. He
looked quietly at the slim girl, the brown
specks dancing mischievously in her eyes.
“I enjoyed it very much, Miss Kennedy!”
he said simply. “Good night all!” And
the sound of his footsteps died away along
the verandah.
Billy Smith, returning from Carinda with
the mail, tipped off a swag at the hut.
A lean, sandy-haired individual slid off
the buggy after it, picked it up by one
end without apparent effort, slung it on an
empty bed, and slumped on top of it.
Scotty looked up suddenly from his book,
mischievous glee breaking across his freckled
face.
“Hallelujah! The return of the.prodigal!
'And the man from Snowy River never
shifted in his seat!’”
The head of the man rose slowly as with
a great effort, and with the. mechanical
steady movement of a lighthouse-reflector
the face appeared. The leathery skin,
drawn tightly across the sharp features, was
splashed with large, pale freckles, a sandy
wisp of a moustache covered the thin lips,
and the neck was long and scraggy, its
smooth, bare skin slashed with sudden
wrinkles like deep knife-cuts. The blood-
shot e3'es glared at the recumbent, grinning
Scotchman.
“I’ll shift you in two ups, you ginger-
headed pommy!” And the eyes, closed
unhappily as the head drooped.'
Scotty chuckled hugely as a long form
darkened the doorway.
“Hullo. Ken! Look what the doctor
brought in his little bag!”
The newcomer grinned down on the
crumpled form.
“G’day, Dusty! How’s the Big Smoke?”
A deep groan was the only answer.
Ken stooped and lifted the unprotesting
figure bodily to another bunk, unstrapped
the swag and emptied a medley of new
suits, hopelessly crumpled, a new hat in
similar condition, bright new spurs, a mouth-
organ, and a collection of useless oddments,
as he shook out and arranged the blankets,
then without any fuss heaved the man into
them, pulled off his boots, and threw a
gaudy silk handkerchief over his face.
He grinned quietly at Scotty. “Looks like
Dusty’s enjoyed himself! Let him sleep
till supper, then we’ll put him under the
shower.”
Next morning Dusty Rhodes—once of
the Monaro, now of the Never-Never—
stepped out ready for breakfast looking his
normal self. His eyes were bloodshot, but
they were always a bit like that, and he
slipped back into his place as if he had not
been absent a day.
When he heard of the new camp being
formed, he slouched round to the office
where Tom Donaldson and the book-keeper
were conversing.
“G’day, Mr. Donaldson!” he grunted.
“Good day, Dusty. Heard you were
back. How far did you go?”
“Brisbane. Crook place that!”
The sincere disgust in his tone raised
a smile on the face of the manager, but
he continued unheeding:
“Believe you’re running a new camp?”
“That’s right!”
“Fm—er—anything fixed up yet?”
“Hist fixing things now. Ken’s running
the new camp.”
“So I heard. Is he full-handed?”
The manager nodded solemnly, and the
man paused motionless a while, then turned
slowly away.
“Dusty!”
The figure stopped without turning.
“Ken’s looking for you. Better tell him
what horses you want.”
The figure straightened quickly and
glared into the office. “Why the hell
couldn’t you say that first?” Then turned
quickly towards the yards.
The book-keeper stared—-he was not used
to men who used this tone in addressing
their employers, but the big man was laugh-
ing heartily in sheer enjoyment.
When Ken led his camp down the Barker
on his first muster as head stockman he left
Ah Soo, the cheerful old Chinese cook whom
they christened “Tommy” for short, to look
after the nucleus of Cattle Camp.
Fifty miles down the winding course of
the Barker on their southern boundary
they found the Ardwell camp under Jim
Armstrong—the big, fair-haired, likeable
head stockman, whose raucous, infectious
laugh was famed throughout the West.
Armstrong was about Ken’s age, but of a
totally different temperament—carefree and
happy-go-lucky, and quite unaffected by
the fact that his father held a controlling
interest in Ardwell.
The following morning the combined
camps set out to muster the unfenced
boundary territory. Ken’s feeling of per-
turbation at having to assume the leader-
ship of the entire party, the muster being
in Corella country, was dramatically solved
by Eaglehawk.
Ken slipped out of camp with the horse-
tailers before the stars had commenced to
fade; quietly he caught and. saddled the
black horse, and tied him to a tree out of
sight of the camp.
The boys drove in the big mob of horses,
bells jangling, hobble-chains ringing. Stock-
men hastily concluded breakfast, grabbed
their bridles, and moved among the
dodging, plunging horses; lurid language
flowing freely as a rogue evaded capture till
all hands closed on him.
Dusty Rhodes and Scotty, missing the
black horse, grinned expectantly. Men
were saddling up all round. Dusty’s horse
went to market as soon as he hit the
saddle, and bucked all round the camp. An
Ardwell horse caught the infection, and
slung his rider almost into the camp-fire,
to a chorus of high-pitched laughter from
the blacks.
Then Ken appeared, the beautiful black
horse taking in the bustle and confusion
with wondering but unperturbed eyes.
Things at present were inexplicable, but
they would straighten out some day.
Dusty and Scotty foregathered for the
show, remembering their own sensations on
first seeing the horse; they felt that now
they were going to get a bit of their own
back, and they were not disappointed. Doug
Phillips, catching sight of the black horse,
straightened in the saddle, then swung his
horse sideways for a better look, his eyes
staring, mouth wide open. Jim Armstrong,
on a fidgety chestnut, glanced in the direc-
tion of : the open-mouthed gaze, and started
so violently that his horse bounded forward
into a big bay that a blackfellow was in
the act of mounting. Heels flashed, and
the blackfellow yelled, and Jim dug a spur
in the chestnut’s flank and wheeled him
into the open, circling to find the horse’s
brand. His eyes opened farther at the neat
4N2 on the shoulder.
••Holy Caesar’s flaming ghost!”
A tumult of questions arising simultane-
ously within him deprived him of further
coherent speech, and at Ken’s “All set,
Jim?” he could only nod mechanically and
follow, the camp stringing behind, arrang-
ing themselves in a wide, awe-struck semi-
circle. Dusty and Scotty, on the flank,
rocked with amusement.
Armstrong closed in gradually, his eyes
devouring the beautiful lines and free action
of the thoroughbred.
“Are you going to tell me that scraggy
old bandicoot bred that horse?” he de-
manded.
Ken nodded, smiling over his pipe.
The other registered open unbelief.
“He might have shook him as a foal —
though God knows how he got away with
it!” His eyes never left the horse as he
continued: “Going to take him down be-
low?”
“No!” Ken’s tone was casual, but left no
doubts.
“Wha-at?” The blue eyes lifted in sheer
astonishment. “Damn it all, man, are you
going to waste a Melbourne Cup certainty
up here?”
Ken smiled into the incredulous face.. “I
reckon this country will do us, Jim!”
“Well—l’ll—be—cut —and—shut!”
The Ardwell man felt cheated; he wanted
to see pictures of the wonderful horse in the
papers—to be able to proclaim how he had
picked the winner before the world knew
of his existence.
“Strike me blue,” he burst forth. “It’s
like finding a goldmine and not working it!”
It was past mid-day and the sun overhead
was hot when the musterers closed on their
camp. The billies were already boiling, and
the horses were quickly unsaddled and
turned loose as the men ate a hasty lunch
and caught fresh horses for the cutting-out.
Out on the shimmering flat the boys
held the protesting cattle. Ken rode out
on Straightwire, a beautiful bay horse who,
sensing the work ahead of him—the work
he specialised in—curveted at sight of
the mob, like a war-horse at the prospect
of a charge. Armstrong seemed to favor
chestnuts, and appeared on a business-like
mare with showy blaze and white hind
feet; then the work began.
Armstrong and Phillips cut out the Ard-
welf cattle to one side, while Ken and
Dusty went through the mob, dodging out
grown cleanskins and cows with unbranded
calves, and moving them to where Scotty
with Jerry proudly rode the face of the
camp.
There is something almost uncanny in
the work of a well-trained camp-horse. He
is the specialist among stock-horses, and a
cattleman will tell you that any decent
stock-horse is to any other horse—sheep-
horse, racehorse or hack—what a high-
powered rifle is to a popgun.
The continuous churning movement of
the mob separated cows from their calves,
and the greatest care had to be taken that
the drafted cow and calf belonged to one
another. Here the real ability of the cattle-
man was tested—time would not wait on
the offchance of mothering a stray calf.
The work had to go steadily on till the
last cleanskin and the last slit-ear of the
Ardwell cattle were cleared out of the mob.
That night there was only one subject
of conversation round the camp-fire, and
Ken began to feel uneasy. If these rumors
got abroad—and there was not the slightest
doubt they would! As easy to try to block
the Barker coming down a banker as to
stop horsemen talking about an animal that
was miles above anything they had ever
hoped to see.
His laconic replies to their questions
worried them, till they almost resented the
fact that he should own the horse, and
not someone who would exploit the animal
and satisfy the burning interest they had
in him.
CHAPTER IX.
Ken’s camp gradually worked its way up
the Barker, the musterers spreading like a
wide net far out over the downs, driving
everything before them, and branding as
they went along. Daylight found them
riding out from last night’s camp, and at
times the stars found the whips still crack-
ing. No man knew whether it was Sunday
or Tuesday, and no one cared. The job
went on till it was done.
Jim Armstrong was still with the muster-
ers. He retained a black boy and half a
dozen horses and sent the rest of his camp
to Ardwell with the cattle they had picked
up.
Ken smiled to himself, but said nothing.
Jim was a cheery soul and a willing worker.
Few Ardwell cattle ever penetrated so far
north, but Jim declared airily, “Bound to
be a few more stragglers, and we might as
well get our calves before the Corella
brand drops on them!” So he sank his
identity as head stockman of Ardwell and
swung a rope and ate the Corella dust as
Jim Armstrong.
Ken’s mind was so occupied with the
work in hand and with the training of
Eaglehawk that the feeling of self-con-
sciousness and awkwardness he had antici-
pated in his new position was forgotten
before it had a chance to become apparent.
He was working the black horse lightly,
and carefully teaching him one thing at a
time, and teaching him well. Even so, he
was astonished at the way the horse picked
up things and settled to work like a veteran.
It took some time to cure him of gun-shy-
ness. The crack of the stockwhip was
quickly understood and grown accustomed
to, but it was long before he would remain
steady under the long, blue barrel of the
revolver. The tension, the long-drawn-out
expectancy of the stabbing flash, the split-
ting report, and the pungent smell of


Soon ~the calm
of the lagoon
%hS r -
N •* »
I I
•’5sS t -wr;,p«
*rs=
y>.
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles.
Beyond the chill grip of winter, the languid appeal of
Rarotonga and Papeete induces travellers to linger amid
alluring surroundings.
Such a holiday awaits you, within easy reach of Sydney by
the swift modern liners of the Union S. S. Co.
SAILINGS
MAUNGANUI, JULY 9.
MAKURA . . . AUGUST 6.
UNION S. S. CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
UNIONROYALMAIbLINE
h
9m
m
w-
r-^iS
m
BURNS RHILP TOURS
VISIT JAVA
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings from
Australian ports
Return Fare from Sydney,
£Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS. PHILP &.C°L T . D
7 BRIDGE ST, SYDN ELY, AUSTRALIA
South Africa and England I
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tThemistocles 15,000 tons, Sept. 9
*Nestor . . 15,000 ~ Sept. 29
. . 18,500 „ Oct. 24
*Anchises . . 10,000 „ Nov. 23
t Euripides . . 12,500 „ Dec. 2
‘First class only. fFirst and third class.
JCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. I,
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. j
joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—STEEL SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £2
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
' Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
p
E PATRIOT
r
DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN ]
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFEf
2 HUNTER STREET.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital. .
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
ƒ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 .. •• •• •• £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALT .’..CUSTOM ARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
burning powder; then the cow dropping in
a sudden heap, and the fearsome blood
smell!
Ken Craig possessed that ingrained sense
of. sympathy and understanding that men
call horse-sense, which told him just how
much an animal could absorb. He handled
his colts differently to most horse-breakers,
and, as a result, there was no need to sneak
up to any of his horses, bridle concealed
behind the back. Most of his horses would
stand at his whistle.
Eaglehawk was an apt pupil. Ken prac-
tised no deceptions on the black horse.
When he wanted him the bridle was in
full evidence, and the big horse, realising
the futility of dodging, was soon walking
up to the man and poking his shiny black
head into the bridle with a proud resigna-
tion.
Dusty Rhodes—himself a horse-breaker
of no mean repute —grinned his cracked
imitation of a smile. He knew the man,
but Jim Armstrong would stare open-
mouthed at the spectacle and turn slowly
away shaking his head as if doubting his
eyesight.
Ken knew that his horse possessed intelli-
gence high above the average, and had
speed and stamina enough for two horses.
The man felt he had in his hands a crude
piece of rare, priceless material, and he
thought and planned and worked with infi-
nite care, educating the horse in a manner
worthy of his shape. The perfect horse
must be as flawless in performance as in
form.
Three weeks and more had slipped by
from the time of their departure. Then one
evening the level beams of the setting sun
showed up the big yards of Cattle Camp on
the red, gravelly ridge. In the foreground
the shining new iron of their house sparkled
like a heliograph from among the dark
foliage. Ken felt a strange glow as he
approached; the hidden fire of ambition
flickered up and singed the armor of his
self-complacency. Quickly he subdued the
rebellion that he had thought stamped out
and dead, and plunged headlong into the .
work of coaxing the ringing cattle up to,
the yard.
The Cattle Camp yard was a huge affair,
strongly built of heavy rails, with strong,
high gates. Smaller forcing-pens led from
the big, roomy receiving-yards to the long
lane and pound—the latter a small square
yard whose four sides were four gates, enab-
ling a mixed mob to be drafted by men
on foot, saving time and horseflesh.
George Harris—his silent mate in the
shadows behind him —and the beaming Ah
Soo welcomed them, and Ken tried hard
not to show the thrill of pleasure he felt,
Scotty plunged into the new building on a
tour of exploration, or, as Dusty drily
remarked, “to stake out the best corner.”
George conducted them through the store,
cook’s-room and men’s quarters, with a small
room at the end for Ken. A door opened
from each room to the wide verandah, and
Jim Armstrong was loud in his envy—“We
have a mouldy old shack like a blackfellow’s
humpy when we’re at home. If they gave
us a place like this, they couldn’t get us
out on the run!”
Dusty’s scraggy neck stretched round
the doorway as his shrewd eyes took in the
details.
“She’s not too flamin’ dusty, is she?”
he ventured. “Scotty’s writing home for
a card with ‘God Bless Our Home’ to hang
over his bed!”
“Ye’re a liar!” proclaimed that youth,
insinuating his form to have a look. “How
about getting a gramophone, though?”
“Good idea, Scotty!” assented Ken laugh-
ing.
“It would be a bit of a change,” drawled
Dusty, with a meaning glance at the red
head.
They walked round the camp inspecting
the new horse-yard and “Tommy’s” garden.
The old Chinaman beamed at their praise,
and was full of ambitious schemes fox-
making the camp a home from home.
“Which way I catchee chooky?” he in-
quired of them at large.
“By the hind leg, if you know the way,”
volunteered Dusty.
“No mo’ tha’ way!” Tommy, was visibly
disgusted. “I think two-feller egg long
blekfus’, a’ li’, eh?”
“My oath, it would! I foi-get what an
egg looks like,” remarked the man from
Ardwell. “I say, Ken, how about a stock-
man’s job for me here? No kidstakes!”
Dusty, making for the hut, looked back
over his shoulder. “Better wait till we
get the electric light in, Jim!”
The . next day was a heavy one for the
camp, but the horses revelled in unhobbled
freedom in the paddock, while the men
sweated and profaned in the dusty yards.
The bulk of the heavy woi-k fell on the
whites. The blackfellow, with a few rare
exceptions, cannot stand up to great physi-
cal strain even in his own climate, where,
on the hottest day, it is the white man who
carries the heavy end of the stick and
finishes on his feet, swollen and blistered
though they may be.
Late in the afternoon there were still
a hundi-ed calves to be branded. The cook
had sent word with the smoke-oh that
beef was needed for supper, so they knocked
off for the day, with deep sighs of relief
from the sagging boys, and from Scotty,
whose hands were like lumps of raw meat
from the jerking ropes.
Ken and Jerry woi'ked a fat cow with a
small convoy close to the camp; then the
long, blue barrel glinted in the sun as it
steadied on the curl between the cow’s
eyes—crack!
' The little mob scattered wildly, and as
the cow dropped in her tracks a boy rushed
forward with 1 a big knife.
All hands got to work immediately Ah
Soo watching placidly, hands folded across
his stomach, till it was time to do his
share.
Dusty spread a sack on the ground and
emptied the salt on to it.
“Cut a bit of steak off the rump, Jim, and
Tommy can get on with supper.”
“Good-oh! Coming oyer, Tommy!”
And the smiling Celestial ambled to the
galley with the hot, still-quaking steak.
“Keep enough steak for two feeds —two
roasts—and salt the rest. Are you ready,
Dusty?”
When the fast fading light had gone, only
the bare skeleton was left; the hide was
pegged out, and the meathouse was full.
They had almost finished the last pen
of calves next morning when the keen-eyed
Jerry murmured something which caused
Ken to gaze steadily through the rails in
front of him.
“Here’s the boss!”
Scotty and Dusty, on the legropes, peered
forth, and a weatherbeaten countenance
registered disgust.
“Stone the flamin’ crows! He’s brought a
buggyful of women!”
Jim Armstrong, craning his neck to have
a look, lost his balance as the calf jerked
up his head, and disappeared in a welter of
threshing legs and profanity. The set look
that had appeared on Ken’s face was lost
in the resultant laughter as they sorted
out the Ardwell man and carried on with
the business.
There was room for only one person on
the seat of the buggy beside the boss; and
it was occupied by Peggy. But Ken had
seen a slim figure on a dappled-grey pony
cutting straight through the coolabahs to
the camp, and his pulse had quickened at
the sight. Just as quickly he pulled himself
up with grim determination to enforce Alan
Gordon’s maxim: “You can’t help thoughts
coming into your head, but you can keep
them from staying there!”
Tom Donaldson’s bulky figure wandered
up to the yard and his big voice boomed
greetings from afar.
“Good day, Ken! G’day, everybody! My
God. it’s warm!” His eyes fell on the man
from Ardwell. “Hullo, Jim, how are you?”
“Not too bad, Mr. Donaldson.”
“By cripes, Ken, vou work your visitors
hard!”
“We can’t keep him off it, Mr. Donald-
son.” Ken smiled back. “I won’t be game
to attend an Ardwell muster!”
The big man climbed to the top rail and
critically surveyed the cattle in the next
yard.
“Cattle look a bit hollow. How long have
they been in the yard?”
“Since the night before last,” replied Ken, I
intent on roping a big “mickey”—the last j
of the pen, and, as usual, the biggest rogue.
When the last calf had been mothered, the
big heavy gates were thrown wide and the
stream of cattle poured thankfully forth.
The full-throated baritone of the calves
mingled with the agitated contralto of per-
turbed mothers, and was supported by the
full chorus of the sympathetic mob—the
entire movement of a bush symphony that
rose and fell till it finally died away in the
distance as the last straggler dragged back
to his beat.
The little group of dusty, blood-stained,
sweat-streaked men tailed awkwardly behind
Tom Donaldson as they caught sight of the
white flash of a frock through the coola-
bahs. Tom was regaling the men with the
accumulated news of the outside world, but
as they drew nearer the camp it is doubt-
ful if any of them paid much attention.
(To he continued, next week.)
Still Waters.
No ripple racing to the sand
That carves away to left and right,
Beside a still lagoon I stand
With none a-near at fall of night.
No more lit scenes I gaze upon,
No more my eyes on beauty feast;
For west the golden day lias gone,
And gloom comes stealing from the east.
Still is the air and velvet soft;
To shake the dew from bloodwood trees
And palms that lift dark fronds aloft
Wayfaring comes no playful breeze.
Around the rippleless lagoon,
On mossy rock and leafy bough
The birds that saug so sweet through noon
And afternoon 'are muted now.
No more through shine and shade they stray,
No more the air with joyance thrill;
Day-lovers all, no time have they
For night, the mystic and the chill.
All soundless is, save for an owl
That, hooting, hunts on noiseless wing.
Or for some hidden waterfowl
Among the bush reeds whimpering.
Lone standing by this still lagoon,
Unbroaclied by fin or wing or breeze,
Westward I see a crescent moon,
And cast a grove of she-oak trees.
As dark night deepens, breathing rest,
Like some great spirit over all.
Far stars it mirrors in its brest,
And planets, pale and mystical.
N.S.W.
KODERIC QUINN.


Around the world, where’er you be,
The same familiar sight you’ll see,
Some sad-eyed mortal, young or old,
Afflicted with a cough or cold.
Around the world in every clime
The bronchial ills of wintertime
Still emphasise the need, be sure,
Of taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Bank of Now Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
A
-
Leipzig Trade Fair
The Greatest and Most Cosmopolitan of all
Trade Fairs (Twice Yearly).
Visitors will not experience the slightest difficulty with the Language,
Matters of Freight, Duties or Banking. The Organisers of the
Leipzig Trade Fair are always on hand to help, courteously and
efficiently, on all questions pertaining to purchasing and business
negotiation.
TEXTILE, ENGINEERING AND
BUILDING FAIRS COMMENCE AUGUST 30.
The W.E.Z. Organisation will gladly supply you with names, addresses
and full particulars of reputable German Export Houses.
M
“Summer in Germany is the Perfection of the Beautiful.’
Inquiries cordially invited and full information given by
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
0. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co,, Post Office Place, Melbourne, Victoria.
Legal Notices.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 492 of 1931.
Between CHARLES DUNN Petitioner
And BEATRICE ALICE DUNN Respondent.
To BEATRICE ALICE DUNN late of Junction
Street North Sydney in the State of New South
TAKE NOTICE that the said Charles Dunn has
commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds that you have without just cause or
excuse left him continuously deserted during three
years and upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-seventh day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-one and in the
event of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned solicitor
free of charge.
Dated this First day of June, 1931.
For the Registrar,
C. Iv. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
CLIVE ARNOTT, Solicitor,
4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Though Mosstrooper failed to complete the
course at Caulfield, his Toolambool Hurdle
running actually enhanced the Grand
National prospects of Gus Powell’s noble
chestnut. It was his first outing over the
sticks since that brilliant triumph in the
1930 Australian Hurdle, after winning the
National double at Flemington. Punters
reckoned that the soft track would settle
Mosstrooper’s chance, and allowed him to
start at 14 to 1; but the Kenilworth gelding
Avould at least have gained a place but for
a mishap at the final flight. Cockcrow (in
control) clouted, and the hurdle, in its back-
ward SAveep, caught the legs of Mosstrooper,
who unseated Bob Harris. No injury was
done to horse or rider, Harris, an old cam-
paigner, having the presence of mind to lie
where he fell until the “also rans” meandered
home.
It was a fast-run race. Finding that Cen-
light Avas shaping an erratic course, Howson
allowed Cockcrow to supplant the Albury
prad as pacemaker. Cockcrow, who headed
betting quotes, is trained by Joe Mulcahy for
11. N. Leonard, a Queensland pastoralist. He
crashed through the second-last hurdle and
landed badly over the final one, but had no
difficulty in stalling off challenges from Olina
and Longlands. The form of Longlands was
arrcstingly good. This Pershore gelding
annexed the G. N. Hurdle three years ago
for Vin. O’Neill, who threw in for a hand-
some win at long odds on Saturday. If the
present rate of improvement be continued,
Longlands will be a tough nut to crack on
July 4. Cockcrow had not raced since August
of last year until he ran third to Olina and
Bert:"Youre late again^Gert"
Gertj"lm awfully sorry."
Bert: "Ha.\/e you ever done
ANYTHING, ON TIME ? "
GERT C3F COURSE —‘ BOUGHT
car
Polygonum at Flemington on June 8. The
son of Crowdennis is a champion in the mak-
ing, but may not he sufficiently seasoned for
a three-mile journey.
• • * ♦
The impression that Bay of Biscay had
been grievously injured in a schooling
accident recently was erroneous. He looked
full of vim on Saturday, and trainer George
Tan tram felt no concern about that scar on
the near foreleg, which was superficial. Bay
of Biscay overpowered Bert Thompson, and,
taking off too far at the second obstacle, came
a harmless cropper. He is to have another
run at Moonee Valley. The Adelaide-owned
gelding fell when nearing home in the 1930
Grand .National, but captured the Doutta
Galla Hurdle. He is believed, in some quar-
ters, to have contracted a dislike for jump-
ing, but that fault may be cured. However,
Bay of Biscay is a long way down in the
National charts. Kendler remains first
favorite, with Mosstrooper on the next line,
followed by Cockcrow and Olina.
* * * * * •
His runaway victory in the Wanda
Steeplechase has made Rakwool equal in
demand with Mosstrooper for the great cross-
country contest at Flemington. The son of
Woorak made light of his 12st. 51b. burden,
and, deposing Tetcott a mile from home,
never gave the opposition a look in. Rakwool
scored, easing up, by a dozen lengths from
Vauntrim, who was hard ridden to deprive
Tetcott of second place. Sandhurst was
travelling moderately well when he came
a cropper at the third-last fence. This was
the only obstacle on which Rakwool laid toe;
lie took the others with spectacular bril-
liance. Big and powerful, with plenty of
speed and stamina, Rakwool has gained in
jumping efficiency every time that he has
started over fences. Of those National can-
didates who opposed him on Saturday the
only one likely to be at all dangerous is Sand-
hurst. Next to Rakwool and Mosstrooper
in public favor come Bestman and the Rand-
wick winner, Indicate.
Agar Wynne, sometime PostmasterrGen-
eral, lies bedridden in Melbourne, where
Illustrious credited him Avith the V.A.T.C.
Minook Two-year-old Handicap in such meri-
torious style that the Heroic colt is hailed
as probable winner of the next V.R.C.
Derby. Illustrious Avas hampered coming to
the home turn, and, failing to get through
on the rails at the half-distance, had to be
eased and taken to the outside of Lancette.
Nothing daunted, he mowed down Fred Gar-
land’s filly and scored with a lot in hand. Tin-
dall, who ran third with Mataram, gained
second money with Pembroke in the Rosny
Plate. Splendidly handled by Scanlon, Har-
binger registered another one-act victory in
the Richmond Handicap. Scanlon slowed
down the field after taking command. Mc-
Shortodds fared badly over four races, but
Rex Aurantic (Cambria Welter, 12 to 1)
and Mutcha (Rosny Plate, 7 to 1) relieved
the.pressure on his moneybags.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Windarra Hurdle: Mosstrooper; next,
Cockcrow.
Travancore Steeplechase: Tetcott; next,
Indicate.
* * * *
Mollison, the most brilliant horse ever bred
in Queensland —he was by Seremond-
Molly’s Robe —died in Melbourne the other
day. Sold by E. M. Pearce, for whom he
earned nearly £30,000 in prize-money, to
Tindall, he did not win a race for that
owner-trainer, who has had heart-breaking
luck since he was disqualified over the run-
ning of a third-rater and was obliged to sell
Tregilla and The Dimmer before they had
come good. Up to a mile and a quarter Mol-
lison has had few superiors on the Austra-
lian turf. But the effort to make a Derby
horse of him knocked him out, and though
he beat Limerick at w.f.a. in the A.J.C.
Craven Plate he was never quite the same
again. Again at the beginning of his third
season on the turf he was tried over a mile
and a half—in the A. J.C. Spring Stakes.
A free goer, and dead-game, he finished sec-
ond to Winalot, but pulled up exhausted.
He was fated not to win another race,
* * * *
Sydney owners who have hitherto raced
j n a big way are reducing their strings, and
horses that have shown , a bit of form may
bo picked up fairly cheap. Legislator
(Legionnaire—Winsome Queen) is a case
i n point; he was one of the lot sold by
Robert Miller recently, though in ordinary
times he would probably have. been kept.
The new owners, T. S. and V. C. Say well,
got their money back and a bit over at
Moorefield on Saturday, their purchase,
backed down to 9 to 4, and ridden by
MoCarten (who was on three winners),
making a one-horse race of the first divi-
sion of the Flying Welter. He had previ-
ously shown a liking for the course. The
second division went to another favorite in
Stage Lad (3 to 1). There was a lot of
interference in this race, and among the
sufferers was Bowery (10 to 1), who
nevertheless made a good run into third
place.
* ,* ‘ _ *
The experiment of bringing Boorcello back
to the city from the Riverina has been amply
justified. Second favorite, at fives, for the
Moorefield Handicap, the good-looking chest-
nut daughter of Violoncello—Booralie won
in capital style from Traymobile (10 to 1)
and old Don Moon. Don Moon’s progress
was retarded by a bump; and Lord Romeo,
when running prominently, was knocked all
ov ® r the place in the Rockdale Mile, won .by
Bonawe (10 to 1) ; while the Juvenile Han-
dicap' was a hazardous scramble from start
to finish. There. Avere 21 starters in this young-
sters’ race, and it was said on the course
that the jockeys might go on strike. It is
a shame that so big a field of “babies”
should be allowed on a track which has been
the scene of such bad accidents. There are
some incapable riders about, but there are
also greedy people in the proprietary-racing
business who subject boys and horses to
risks which they should not be obliged to
take.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Sir Duninald ;
next, Micky.
Flying Welter: Black Douglas; next,
Goldminer.
June Handicap: Attar; next, Flinders.
* *. * *
“Wokingham”: The growing popularity of
the tote in England is seen in the record turn-
over for the first two days of the Ascot
meeting, the cash invested running well over
£lOO,OOO in spite of the fact that wagering
units ran as low as 2s. The tote is the
biggest in England, with a working staff of
over 1000. All classes of goers stood in the
queues; even in the famous Royal en-
closure Britain’s bluest blood and most gilded
plutocracy battled for the right to get
a bit on. Here, as in the less-exalted
parts of the course, the humble two bob was
the most popular flutter.
sfs * *
“Mauri”: At a recent race meeting at
Kokopo, New Guinea, the clerk of the course
followed the competing horses right to the
finishing post in every race. After several
had been run with the clerk always close
behind the last horse, a group of natives on
the rail broke out into loud guffaws of
laughter. Inquiry as to the cause brought
the information that “Master belong red
coat he no savee ride —he come larse alia
time.”
SH * * *
“Hotham”: Flemington will not see the
big Julius tote in action at the Grand
National meeting in July, but the erection of
the plant is far advanced and is only de-
layed by the necessity for waiting for intri-
cate material now being forwarded from
Britain. It is a certainty, however, that the
machine will be in operation at the meeting
to be held at the Victorian headquarters on
August 15. The same make of machine is
being installed at Moonee Valley, Williams-
town and Caulfield, the approximate opening
dates being August 19 and 22 and September
5 respectively.
_ , _ , i T-. fT -vnv
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Australia’s former feather-, light- and
welter-weight champion, Billy Grime (9st.
lOflb.), looked tired after the first round of
his fight with Jimmy Kelso (9st. 911 b.) at
Leichhardt last Friday, and few expected
him to last the limit. But the veteran kept
going, though with nothing like the speed
he displayed when in his prime, and
his unorthodox ducking puzzled his oppo-
nent so much that many thought a draw
would be declared. Kelso, however, did more
fighting than claiming, and the cleaner work
won him the decision.
* * * *
Some more real fight was seen at the
Sydney Stadium on Saturday. Allan Edgecock
(9st. 101 b.) again appeared in the main event,
and fought too furiously for Leo Bell (9st.
81b.) throughout 10 rounds. Two sloggers,
Frank Lloyd (lOst. 81b.) and Bill Bremeyer
(lOst. 121 b.), knocked each other down a few
times before Lloyd’s left slammed Bremeyer
to sleep in the third. Young Lacey (Bst. 91b.)
outpointed Bill McQuiggan (Bst. 61b.) in
the other six-rounder. The three four-round
preliminaries all went to decisions, but they
were willing goes the whole way.
“Stoush”: Pat Redmond’s much-heralded
scrap with Camera was a ghastly fiasco. The
Italian hopped out of his chair at the bell,
and in 40 seconds Pat was listening to the
singing of the skylarks. How’ on earth the
former Sydney .barman was given a fight
of such apparent importance is a puzzle.
Even more so is the statement that prior
to this last turn-up the long fellow had won
several mills in America “against boxers of
class.” On Pat’s showing against Camera
it is not hard to guess the class.
Footbrawl
Footscray’s team placed themselves among
the elect on Saturday by trapesing over to
St. Kilda and defeating the Saints on their
own ground. Play was of the rushing order,
with neither side showing out, but the Tri-
colors lasted the better, and, putting on
5 goals to one in the last quarter, ran out
with 77 points to Saints’ 52. The most con-
spicuous player was ’Scray’s captain, Bill
Cubbins, who Avas St. Kilda’s leader last
season. Melbourne went to Carlton, and by
systematic open play got a good lead early,
but faded to nothing at the close—Carlton, 122
points; Melbourne, 58. Collingwood had an
afternoon’s practice at Victoria Park, North
Melbourne being on the ground just for the
sake of appearances; North scored 64 points
to the Magpies’ 154. Fitzroy’s side, being of no
account nowadays, was meat for Hawthorn,
who notched 80 points to ’Roy’s 56; and
Richmond just as easily accounted for South
Melbourne—B4 to South’s 57. Also Geelong
came up to Essendon and gathered in the
bacon, returning with a victory of 89 points
to ’Don’s 55.
* * * *
Both the Rugby codes in Sydney were back
to grade football on Saturday, and some
closely-contested games resulted. In the
Union matches, the clash between Drum-
moyne and the leaders, Manly, at the latter’s
oval was the most important, and a great
go it proved to be, Manly finally coming
out ahead by 19 (4 tries, 2 converted, and a
penalty) to 5 (a converted try). The scores
give no indication of the play, for the visit-
ing team had all the better of it for three-
quarters of the game, leading 5-3 at half-time.
It was a mighty tussle between two good
forward sides, the rucking being the stillest
seen for a long time. Manly’s back division
was overrun until the closing stages, when
the Drummoyne attack faded out. University
had a good win from Northern Suburbs at
the Cricket Ground, scoring 21-8 in a bright,
fast game. St. George performed notably by
beating Western Suburbs 11-3 at Ilurstville,
the Saints’ first win in two years! Randwick
again flopped, this time to Eastern Suburbs
at the Grammar Ground. A typical last-
minute penalty kick by Alec Ross landed
East home by 9-8.
* * * *
The big League game of the day was the
meeting of unbeaten Eastern Suburbs and
Balmain at Sydney Sports Ground. ’Main
went down 14-5. or 2 tries and 4
goals by Lynch to a goat and a
try. At North Sydney, South showed
a glimpse of old-time form, winning 15-12.
H. Eyers played a fine game at centre
for the ex-premiers. They were nearly caught
at the finish, North piling on 10 points in the
second half. Beaumont showed class on the
wing for Norths, and in Crowley they have
a big forward who goes into the hard stuff.
Another close match saw Western Suburbs
beat Newtown at Marrickville 17-15 in a
fluctuating game. At Earl Park St. George
downed University 16-10, after the students
had led by 4 points at the interval.
(Continued on page 31.)
The Senior Tourist Trophy Race over the
Isle of Man course, which is the blue ribbon
of motor-cycle road-racing, was won by the
English rider Percy Hunt, who averaged
77.9 m.p.h. An Australian, Simcock, finished
eighth.


„ « **s»: *■■ •
:
VA
',s*s
i 4.
i?S
pr
&£§V-’*a;^
m
lam
intensive specialisation
over forty years must
eventuate in a superior
product. Behind all
DAGENITE Batteries
which are now made in
Australia is the accu-
mulated knowledge, ex-
perience and resources
of two famous Accumu-
lator firms Peto & Radford
and The Hart Accumu-
lator Go. Ltd.
Decide now that your next
battery will be a DAGENITE.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE:
JOHN ARNOLD,
Box 71, G. P. O. Melbourne
AGENITE|gg
BATTERIES*
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: Vic. F. L. officials are up
iu arms over the proposed visit of an
Association team to play in N.S.W., which
is affiliated to the Victorian League, the
sworn enemy of the Association. The League
was originally asked to send a side to by d-
ney, but curtly refused. . The Welshmen
thereupon turned to the rival body, which
not only consented, but agreed to have the
match played under League rules, which
differ in some respects from its own. -The chief
question is whether the Council, which controls
the League version of the game in Australia,
will consent to one of its affiliated bodies
meeting the Association players. If per-
mission for the match is withheld, the
N.S.W. men will then have to decide whether
they will chuck up the match or defy the
Council.
* =l= =l= *
“Hotham”: Civil war is not beyond the
bounds of possibility owing to the contumacy
of Westralia in refusing to. give footballer
Hough a clearance to play in Victoria (B.
3/6/’3l). In spite of the fact that Vic-
toria dispatched a final ultimatum by air
mail demanding the lifting of the ban, the
Westralians suffered no change of heart.
Instead they met iu conclave and then
frigidly announced that they would see Vic-
toria in Gehenna first, adding a rider to the
effect that the numerous affidavits and
asseverations emanating from Yarraville in
connection with the case were so much
embroidery of fact. The next, move is the
Cabbage Garden’s, and all hands are wait-
ing breathlessly to sec it.
He ♦ *l*
“Gate” : The N.S.W. side which is to figure
against Queensland in Brisbane under Rugby
League rules this week contains a big pro-
portion of young players who were unknown
in inter-State football prior to this season.
There are only four country players, Griffin,
Prigg, Gibb and Duncan, in the 20 chosen
for the trip, though Kingston would have
been a certainty but for his disqualification
over the row in'a recent country match when
he led his team off the field as a protest
against the umpiring. Four matches will
be played, the first on June 27, against
Queensland at Brisbane. On July 1, Bris-
bane will be taken on, and Queensland again
on July 4. The last game will be against
Toowoomba on the way back to Sydney.
* * * *
“Bowen Bridge”: Though Queensland
played N.S.W. in* Brisbane under the so-
called “sanctioned” Union rules, the matches
in Sydney at the end of July will see the
games played under the International Board
laws. A conference is to be held on the
question when the Bananalanders are m
Sydney, and the other Unions will be invited
to give their opinion. The conference seems
futile. Either the old rules must be reverted
to or the Australian Unions must cut them-
selves off from the rest of the Rugby world.
What is to be gained in that case is not
apparent.
“Line Out”: Talking of schoolboy foot-
ballers (B. 17/6/’3l), the N.S.W. Rugby
Union considers it has discovered a budding
champion in Christopherson, of Orange, a
lad of 16, whose display against the
M.L. Universities surprised the visitors. He
is a centre three-quarter, and opposite the
formidable Ruhu gave evidence of all-round
ability. Christopherson is at the Orange
High School.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotliam”: The Australian tennis heads
here in Melbourne moaned in their sleep the
other day when Bill Tilden finally stated
he was not going to bring a team to this
goldarned country next season. Bill opines
that “the general business conditions that
exist in Australia” are against the project.
Since William, even in the days when he
was an amateur, always put finance first,
his decision is not surprising. It is,
however, a shock to the Australian associa-
tion, which, while it is rabid in its discour-
agement of professionalism among Australian
players, was hoping that the proposed visit
of Bill and his team of fellow-professionals
would swell its credit balance.
* * * *
“Eastbourne”: The British Davis Cup
team lived up to the Bulletin tip (B.
17/67’31) that the Cold Country had more
than a sporting chance of coming out on top
in the European zone. Last week the
Britons gave Japan a handsome hiding, win-
ning all five matches. The final for the zone
lies between England and Czechoslovakia,
the latter having defeated the much-fancied
Italians. The Czechs have a young side,
and have played consistently good tennis in
the earlier games. One cannot see them
beating the Englishmen, who have dug up
a rare doubles pair in Hughes and Perry.
Both these men are also first-class singles
players, so if Austin is at his best it is good
betting that England and America will meet
to decide which shall challenge France for
the pot.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: By the time this
appears in print the All England champion-
ships at Wimbledon will be in full swing.
It is a matter for regret to me that the
exchange position and other reasons have
forbidden my attendance, for I hear there
is a general move among the women players
in the direction of playing without stockings
and painting their limbs —I recoil at the
word “legs.” Some of the contestants at
Wimbledon have already tried it on the
dog—that is, the British public—at the Roe-
liampton tourney, which is the recognised
prelude to Wimbledon. The colors used
range, I am told, from pale beige—which
approximates to the complexion of one who
has just received his income-tax assessment
—to a deep sunburn brown, the coloring
being applied in the form of paste.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Bloggs”: The par allotted by the N. S.
Wales Golf Council for courses round Syd-
ney has found plenty of critics. It has been
arrived at on the basis of 3 being fair figures
for any hole up to 240 yards. But some
clubs (Royal Sydney, Rillara and Pymble,
for example) have several short holes of 100
yards or thereabouts. Others, such as The
Lakes, haven’t one that the average 10 handi-
cap player can reach with a mashie. What
could be more ridiculous than to estimate
Ryde (70), which is flat and practically
hazardless, as only one stroke easier t
Australian? Royal Sydney and I lie La
are bracketed with 72. The fairway «•
Royal Sydney are like greens ; it fioesn t
possess a hill or a water-hazard, and it. 1
some short holes at which 2 s are constan
scored. Keane, of Cammeray, went round
it last week in 70 (two 2’s in the first nine)
in a practice game before the champion. 1
—and the turf was sodden after heavy ra j
at the time. There isn’t a golfer m the land
with more than an outside chance ot
negotiating The Lakes in 70, or scoring a -
at the shortest of its holes.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland associates entei
on their championship meeting this week on
Royal Queensland’s course at Eagle iarm.
There has been a big entry by players from
the West and North, and these will be
catered for in several handicap events apart
from the championships. The -star turn is
the singles, held by Dot Hood, who win
defend her title. *
“Hoylake”: The British women’s open
golf championship, played at Portmarnock,
in Scotland, was won by Enid Wilson, who
beat Wanda Morgan by 7 up and b to
play. Miss Wilson led by one hole only at
the end of the morning round, but. m the
afternoon left her opponent standing and
took 6 holes straight off the reel, playing
12 in all in one stroke under fours. Very
tall, the winner is a fine stylist, and is
expected to become another Joyce Wethered.
“Hotliam”: The Communistic menace or
something reared its head or showed its
fangs at the Peninsula club’s course at
Frankston (Vic.) the other day, when all
the caddies went on strike in consequence of
a reduction of their emoluments from 2s. to
,Is. 6d. a round. Attempts to introduce free
labor resulted in the blacklegs being ducked
in a pond, and when members carried
their own clubs they were followed round
the course and subjected to such contume-
lious criticism that effective golf was out of
the question. At latest advices the strikers
are still standing out, while some of the
elder and more choleric members have taken
to their beds.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : There has been some argument
in Melbourne as to when golf first raised its
head in Vic. H. L. Graham, has a diary
in which the payment of £2 as subscription
to a golf club in 1847 is mentioned. The
club had its course near Flagstaff Hill, out
Flemington way, but it seems to have died
young. The first of the existing golf clubs,
the Royal Melbourne, was founded in 1891,
and at first played at Albert Park, N.S.W.
was introduced to the game by one J. Duns-
more, who brought out with him from Scot-
land in 1851 some of the first gutty balls
made. Here again the game faded out and
did not revive until 1891. South Australia
was earlier in the field than the sister States.
Sir James Fergusson, the Governor, intro-
duced the game to Adelaide in 1869 and the
Royal Adelaide Club was founded the follow-
ing year.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The European Grand Prix, a
24-hour run over open roads, was won again
by Britain last week, the drivers being Sir
H'enry Birkin and Earl Howe. The average
was 88 m.p.h., beating Woolf Barnato’s
record ; the car was the Italian Alfa-Romco
in which Birkin won the Eireann Cup in the
Irish Grand Prix at Dublin. Birkin ordered
it for the Irish event, to find, a few days
before the race, that it was only half-built.
He worded Mussolini, who hopped in and told
the factory to drop everything else in order
to fulfil the contract with the Englishman.
It was completed, and that a new machine
should have done so well in the first runs
outside the shop says a lot for Italian
engineering capacity.
* * * *
“Disc Clutch” : Americans have again had
to bow their heads to the British car-de-
signer. This time it is in connection with
the “baby” car with which the effete Briton
conquered the motoring world, including
America. According to the publicity hounds
the Yanks, who began by purchasing the
right to build a well-known English make in
their own country, will next season place
three different brands of small cars on the
market. One is to be sold complete to buy-
ers in a large packing case, so arranged as
to make a practicable garage for the pram!
Prices will be about £5O for the standard
model, whereas the English car is marketed
at £7B.
* * * *
“Alloa”: One of the bones of contention
over which the motorist and the traffic con-
stables are always showing their teeth is
the rate of speed at which the haulcd-up
motorist is supposed to be driving. A useful
tip in this respect was recently given in
a Scottish court when a constable pulled
up a car for exceeding what he said was
20 m.p.h. He added that after he signalled
the driver to stop and the brake went on, the
car travelled 45 feet. Asked what number
of yards per second were being travelled, the
witness could not say. He was told to
divide the estimated number of miles by two
and that would give him the yards per
second.
* * =s= *
“Drag”: F. A. Hunting, who, with his
brother, A. J., introduced dirt-track motor-
cycling to Buenos Ayres and Monte Video,
returned to Melbourne the other day and told
how the sport has taken on in South
America. It is so popular there now that
thousands prefer it to bull-fighting. Aus-
tralians are practically running the game
at Buenos Ayres ; the track there was laid
down by the Hunting brothers. Of the many
Australian riders engaged, 18-year-old Ernie
Evans, of Melbourne, is fast developing into
the star performer.
# * * *
“Sprocket”: Little has been heard lately of
the doings of our cyclists in France, most
of the big events prior to the Tour de France
having been decided. Opperman, however,
seems to be picking up a bit of pocket money
here and there, for it is cabled that he
showed in a meeting at Rouen lately and won
a couple of races. One of them was a teams
race over 50 miles, in which he rode with
a Frenchman, Minardi. This event included
some steep hill climbing, so the Australian’s
success promises well for the coining big
race round France which is the objective of
the Australian quartette.
Miscellaneous
“Aigburth”: Australian cricket followers
will hear with regret that McDonald has
dropped out of the Lancashire side, of which
he has been the bowling mainstay for years,
owing to muscular trouble. The long chap is
39, and presumably the strain of leading the
bowling in county cricket for six days a week
for the past eight years has begun to toll
on him. Visitors to England who saw him
last season say that he was then rarely
resorting to his fast stuff except on special
occasions. As lie was as good with his
medium deliveries as with the expresses that
did not matter much, but it indicates that he
Avas even then feeling the strain.
:l: * * *
“The Gaffer’’: I’m glad to see that young
Jim Carlton has asked the heads to do
something in the way of providing 1 a cinder
track for prospective Olympic candidates to
train on. It seems preposterous that there
are, nowadays, no cinder tracks for peds
in Australia, whereas in the days of the pro-
fessional boom they could be found in every
decent-sized town from Charters Towers to
Stawell. Everywhere outside Australia peds,
amateur and professional, run on cinders.
That is why overseas times are always much
better than those recorded in Australia by
men running on grass. The change from one
type of track to the other is upsetting
to the athlete, and this explains the failure
of many of our amateur runners who have
gone overseas to live up to their Australian
reputation.
;J: * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum, giving
away 5500 to Tom Newman in their match
at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries in Sydney,
won on the post at the end of the fortnight’s
session by 23,297 to 22,596. _ The winner
scored two four-figure breaks in the earlier
stages of the game, but after he had got
within striking distance of his opponent
failed to get into the big figures as often
as he usually does. Newman improved con-
siderably as the game went on, making the
best break of the closing day with 640. The
pair are now playing in Melbourne. New-
man taking 7000 start this time.
* * *
“Long Rest” : The battle for the Empire
billiards championship in Sydney is attract-
ing a lot of attention. Special interest lies
in the appearance of the two Englishmen,
Lee and Steeples, who, with Horkett, of
Maoriland, will make up the overseas con-
tingent. Hayes, of N.S.W., who won the
Empire title in South Africa, will also be
a competitor, but, on his form in the Aus-
tralian championships in Adelaide, will have
his work cut out to master the Britons. Lee
is an amateur out of the ordinary. He has
made 41 breaks over the century in competi-
tion billiards, while his companion has a
match break of 977 to his credit.
* * * *
“Blade” : The postponement of the inter-
state eight-oar race for the King’s Cup to
1932 has been followed by a request from
Westralia that it be postponed for another
year. The Westerners plead that it wilt
cost them £6OO to send a crew to Melbourne,
where the next race is to be rowed; but it
they fail to show up there they will .forfeit
their right to a race at Perth when their turn
comes round. As these events usually show, a
profit of several hundred pounds, the saving
on the trip to Melbourne will be counter-
balanced by the loss of the carnival later.
A two-thirds majority of delegates is neces-
sary to pass Westralia’s proposal, and as
Tasmania, Victoria and N.S.W. will cer-
tainly vote against it, it may be taken for
granted the race will be rowed next year.
“Setter’’: Meddling busybodies in the guise
of policemen seized 36 bags containing fight-
ing cocks when a farm was raided at More-
combe Bay, in Westmorland. The birds
were there to compete in a match between
Westmorland and Cumberland, but the un-
feeling rozzers were deaf to all protesta-
tions, and not only grabbed the fowls but
took the names of nearly a hundred people
prominent in the two counties. Why cock-
fighting is suppressed in some parts of the
world while pigeon-shooting is permitted is
one of those little mysteries which are hard
to unravel. The gamecock, left to himself,
would sooner fight than eat. There is no
question of compulsion about his scrapping.
He enjoys himself, and gives pleasure to
his human patrons, incidentally giving these
a chance to make or lose a little money. To
ban cock-fighting amounts to nothing less
than cruelty to dumb animals, in my
opinion.
* * * *
“Blade Sight’’: A little-advertised annual
sporting competition is the rifle-shooting
match between the universities of the British
Empire, The teams shoot on their own
ground, of course, and the certified scores are
sent to the National Rifle Association in
London, which announces the results. This
year London University came out on top of
the list with 1417 points out of a possible
1600. Rangoon was second and Melbourne
third. Then came Potchefstroom (in South
Africa), Sydney, Cambridge, Auckland,
Oxford and Tasmania.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: The dear old amateur-
status question got another airing in Sydney
last week when it was discovered that a
University fresher, by name Parsonage, who
had won a novice sprint at a Uni. sports
meeting had previously run for money prizes
at a country meeting while on holiday. It is
all very dreadful, but the University sport-
ing authorities might wake up and tumble to
the fact that the young fellow is already a
professional, since he plays football with the
Sydney Uni. Rugby League team. It
is true this misguided organisation takes
no share of the cash distributed among
grade clubs by the N.S.W. League, but
it is affiliated with a professional organ-
isation. Because of that its members are
branded as professionals and are ineligible to
compete in any amateur sport or take part
in any amateur game which comes within the
jurisdiction of the International Federation
of Amateur Sport.


UndeS
Royal
,Jfl&rrant
Vintage 1920.
To H.M‘
Kinfi
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
[itelleiiedj
BJUZBKS
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
-*N»MPAei«
Qarteifeidsie*
"MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Spark/incf
CIDER
The American Society
will hold its
INDEPENDENCE DINNER
, at
The Wentworth on Saturday, July 4
DINNER: 7.45 P.M., 10/6 PER HEAD. BOOKINGS: 8W1361.
A GREAT INNOVATION AT THE WENTWORTH.
CONTINENTAL PROMENADE CONCERTS EVERY SUNDAY
LEON HALE AND HIS HUNGARIAN BAND OF 20.
Concert commences 8.30 p.m. 2/- for Supper, covers the entire evening.
MARK YOUR
LINEN in the
MODERN WAY
“A Few Stitches
& They’re On.
sSSL re*
mi
They safeguard all apparel and household
linen Neat. Distinctive and Fadeless.
cffl.&.'WclCuistiA.
Actual Sire
Style No. 6
The Price* are Moderate.
12 doz. 7/6; 6 doz. 5/-; 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by Leading Draper*.
Write for Name Style Circular to
JO, | pA CU Australian
. OC J. \-*rV<Drl weaving Co. Pty. ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melb.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER.
While yet the sales are even as the song
of the siren in the ears of woman, the
fashion houses are busy unwrapping from
their tissues the new season’s dresses. This
Letter, calling in at its favorite store the
other morning, was treated to a private man-
nequin parade. First thing to be noted that
all afternoon and evening frocks fit ' even
as the skin, almost as far as the knees. This
clinging effect is obtained by materials being
cut on the cross. The only fulness is in
the sleeves and below the knees —hems vary
between three and a half and four yards
in width.
AH the best evening frocks are slightly
trained, and are reminiscent of the marvel-
lous contour cuddlers film-star Theda Bara
used to display with such devastating effect.
Many of the dinner-in-restaurant frocks
(Sunday supper frocks is the trade term)
are of lace and have long sleeves, some of
them a slenderised version of the old leg-o’-
mutton (but, then, of course, the leg-o’-
mutton has shrunken to meet these 11.C.L.
times), and many widening into a bell above
the wrist. One beauteous thing for dances was
of Royal blue grosgrain, sinuous as a python
and fitting as that reptile’s skin just above
the knees, whence by means of godet and flare
it flowed in restrained plenitude. It was
held in place by straps of diamente and
crystal, and the belt was fastened with a
diamente buckle fashioned into a high-
handled basket of flowers.
Another luscious evolution of the figleaf
was of emerald-green chiffons. It was back-
less, save for a harness of diamente; below
this fell two green scarves in trailing green
antennae; the front of the dress was rucked
up into the princess style, and the impres-
sion was of some royal beetle of old Nile.
Lace is introduced into everything. An im-
pressive black marquisette frock wore white
point lace leg-of-mutton sleeves. Lace forms
the entire dress and coat, or it edges the
jabot or collar. Flounces, straight or diag-
onal, are everywhere. Necklets of field
flowers, made into childlike daisy and butter-
cup chains, are among the fashionables’
impedimenta. Daytime costume skirts wrap
over either at the back or the front, and a
new material, said to be woven of ostrich
feather and wool, light as a cloud, appears
in daytime frocks. This is known as Plume-
taine. A knee-length belted Russian tunic
of white suede, to be worn with a black maro-
cain costume, caught the imagination, as did
the coat of this three-piece with its bishop
cuffs and high-fitting collar of black mus-
quash striped with ermine. And if you are
searching for a new color sensation try vel-
lum lace over a faded rose slip. It suggests
a delicate whiff of potpourri.
H.M.A.S. Albatross flapped its wings
and crowed, or made whatever sound of wel-
come the albatross is addicted to, when on
its decks stepped a company of Sydney’s
let-us-be-gay gallants and ladies last week.
The dance was of the small and intimate
order, and Captain and Mrs. Feakes held a
preliminary dinner at which Morna MacCor-
mick looked nice enough to be the toast of the
night in her flowing almond-green chiffons.
Flying-ifaan F. C. Chichester was one of the
guests, and the George Walkers were among
those who broke bread. Good-looking Cyn-
thia Ilawkes celebrated her wedding eve
in sapphire-blue laces; Mary Adams,
too, was one of the younger dancers. The
Bryce Morrises, the Oscar Irelands, Com-
modore Holbrook and Captain Farquliar-
Smith and his wife, along with a few dozen
more, represented the Navy.
The little Independent Theatre had a
triumphant first birthday last week, when its
continued good health was drunk in the club
rooms above the Mary Elizabeth. Coffee
and tea were the beverages indulged in by the
muscular young men and the pretty girl
members. Booze, by such, is relegated to the
background. It wasn’t convivial but it was
emphatic when a girl at a recent wedding
party passed the flowing bowl with the
remark: “Rotten for the complexion, and
poison to the arteries.” After that the women
who stopped one or two had a shuddersome
feeling that they were swallowing some
witches’ brew. Anyway, the Independents
got intoxicated gazing on their glittering
birthday cake (a present from Jean New-
man), three tiers of it, surmounted with a
tiny stage and lit by one taper. Doris Fitton,
who founded the club, approached the sugar-
icing fastness, drawing an inky wake of
black lace in her measured progress, and lit
the candle with the air of a vestal virgin
tending an altar flame. Neville Malley, a
lightweight of no more than 16 stone, supplied
a fervid moment when, dressed as a favorite
of the harem, he danced seductively. A
ballet of coy Rugby footballers in bare backs
and azure skirts made a tremendous hit—
in fact they shook the place to its founda-
tions. Alathea Glasby and Paul Furniss sup-
phed a sketch, as did Kitty Horne. Rita
Cullen Ward, in green chiffons, was one of
the party s pretty decorations, and Etna
Living s humorous smile was memorable even
in that group of over one hundred strong,
weak and “just getting over the ’flu, thank
you!”
Sydney has a new club, the Sydney Ad.
Students. Stanley Ibbitson is the president
the secretary. All students
ot the gentle art of making things known by
public notice are eligible for membership.
Queenslander Ursula McConnel, who has
been staying at Montpelier in Elizabeth Bay,
had probably the most unique bit of luggage
any woman has brought to Sydney. It is
a complete set of records of a native corro-
boree in North Queensland, together with
records of abo. chants and songs. The par-
ticular tribes which Ursula, a brilliant an-
thropologist, was investigating lived mainly
on water-lilies; and, as a clever Sydiiey
doctor says, could anyone think of a more
poetic prescription for a slenderising
diet? That the water-lilies are not -fat-
tening is evidenced by the pictures Miss
McConnel has taken—both men and women
are slim as spears; perhaps the gathering
Oi the lilies is more strenuous than it
sounds. The women collect the flowers, and
the men dive in and pull up the roots—the
plant, from flower to root, is so long that a
full-grown abo. carries it over his shoulder,
the blossom nearly reaching his toes, while
the root trails at his heels.
During the week-end Death rang down the
curtain on Nellie Stewart, and who can
doubt that she made the final exit in as
gallant a style as any
she made in her 54
years of stage life?
For the past few years
the famous actress
had lived on Brad-
ley’s Head, and her
chief joy had been
in her grandchildren.
Occasionally she
came from her re-
tirement and showed
young actresses how
the thing should be
done. As Romeo,
her perfect sense of
rhythm and crystal-
clear diction could
fire the imagination
of even a charity
matinee audience. A
younger generation
had the chance to
see her in the roman-
tic “Sweet Nell of
Old Drury” when
she revived that
sparkling comedy at
the Sydney Opera
House and in Mel-
bourne. To the end
she retained her
slender figure, and
her legs and arms
were the envy of
every woman who
glimpsed them. Once,
talking to this
Letter, Nell told the
secret of her suc-
cess as an actress,
and of her alert,
young body: “Hours
of hard, concentra-
ted rehearsal, fenc-
ing—and no supper
parties after the
show.” Australia
mourns Nellie; she
was a link with the
romantic past before
the war, the war
novel and the war
play.
May Moore, the tall and statuesque,, is
dead. She was a pioneer woman photo-
grapher in Maoriland, and later, in Aus-
tralia. For years she had a studio
above King-street, whose waiting-room was
like a corner of an old Venetian home.
There were two high-backed, elaw-armed
and -footed chairs in which a Doge
might have sat, and a general atmosphere of
good pictures and mellow-polished wood.
May, who with her red-gold braids, her blue
eyes and erect carriage, might have been the
embodiment of some Viking’s daughter, was
a water-colorist of delicacy. Her miniatures
were her hobby, and among her subjects
were a number of the city’s business mag-
nates, as well as their wives and babies.
Outside of her studio she was Mrs. H.
Wilkes, and she had a garden-surrounded
home at Bayview, the seeming negligence and
waywardness of the garden belied by the
profusion and perfection of its blooms. For
two years or more the popular woman was
confined by sickness to her home, and her
great delight was to sit up in her veran-
dah bed and paint posies of flowers picked
from her own garden. An hour before her
death she was painting such a bunch, placed
beside her by her husband.
Cynthia Hawkes chose an afternoon wed-
ding, and when as Mrs. A. H. T. Fleming she
came out of St. Mark's, at Darling Point,
where Canon Howard Lea had spliced the
knot, she and her navy-blue and brass-bound
lieutenant walked under the traditional arch
of swords. Cynthia, the shimmering white
satin of her dress misted over with a Lim-
erick-lace veil, was followed by four white-
clad ’maids who attained a woodland air by
wreathing their locks with green leaves and
carrying deep-red flowers. The lieutenant,
who is one of the Albatross’s merry men.
hails from Perthshire in Scotland; Cynthia
is the daughter of the Cuthbert Hawkes
couple, of Greenoaks-avenue, Darling Point.
The reception was at the Queen’s Club,
where Mrs. Hawkes hostessed in cerulean
blues served with a posy of violets and
daphne.
The Country Women’s Association has no
lack of young enthusiasts among its mem-
bers, and the younger set of the Eastern
Suburbs branch arranged one of the dance
successes of last week to help make condi-
tions smoother for women out back. The
party wavered cheerfully between Farmer’s
luncheon hall and the oakroom, the dancers
taking possession of the one and the bridge
fiends settling down for the night in the other.
Mrs. Clive Inglis, who was president of the
money-raiser, wore sea-blue chiffons, swirl-
ing with many godets, and brought a party
of outsize dimensions. Treasurer Jessie
McMaster was vivid in a gold and scarlet
binding; Betty Benjamin looked like a bit
of spring in her primrose flounces; Joan
Higgins and Peggy Bullmore were among the
attractive girls; Mrs. Clive Robinson, in
embroidered white chiffons, was one of the
“SWEET NELL.”
notable frockers; and Penelope Cay, in pale-
gold satin, one of the most graceful of the
dancers. Mrs. Frank Wisdom and Ettie
Whyte were the secretaries.
The journalists have decided to again hold
a ball in aid of their benevolent fund; the
affair, as usual, will take place in August.
Chief Justice Street’s lady is to be asked
to act as president, the Mayoral Jacksons
have been drawn into the net as vice-presi-
dents, and the Mayoress has already shown
practical help by offering her rooms at the
Town Hall for a bridge or music afternoon
to swell the funds. The date for this is
fixed for July 20.
A guest at the wedding of Connie Bryen
to John. Triggs reports favorably on the
bridesmaids’ pink lace mittens and tiny grass-
green muffs. These were made of taffeta
twined with mignonette, and the effect, with
the long, pink organdie frocks flared in front,
but flounced at the back, was highly pictorial.
The bride’s parchment satin frock featured
bell-shaped cuffs, a cowl collar and a fan-
shaped train. She’s the younger daughter of
Mrs. Stephen Bryen, of Onslow Gardens, and
a prettier bride St. Mark’s at Darling Point
has rarely blessed.
The Wentworth has been once more chosen
by the American colony for its Thanksgiving
Day dinner. This, in spite of the depression,
is going to be a terrible night for the tur-
keys. Incidentally, it is recorded by some
naturalist that when any turkey hears so
much as one saxophone playing “Marchin
through Georgia!” it runs to cover.
Beauty indeed is in the eye of the be-
holder. A just-beginning-to-sliave college
lad went prancing up to liis mother at a
recent school hop. “Oh, Mother,” he said,
rolling a fervent eye, “I’ve just been dancing
with a bosker girl. Take, it from me, she’s the
belle of this turnout.” “Oh, really?” replied
his ma, on the right note of interest; “point
her out to me.” “There she is, at the oppo-
site table. No, not the one in green—the
one with the chin like Lang, the hooked nose
and the two birth-marks on her throat. Isn't
she a bonzer!”
Queensland’s bunch: —
The decorations for the Automobile Club ball in
the Troeadero were mostly along humorous lines.
“Liz 1980” was a semi-aeroplane and car, and there
was a “thyroid station” for “gland gurgle.” A
sketch pictured an up-to-date flapper telling a
policeman who objected to her doing 50 per hour,
“But you can’t arrest me: I haven’t got a driving
license.” Flags and streamers decked a group of
baby cars in the centre of the ballroom. Constance
Lloyd helped her brother, president B. F. Lloyd, to
receive. The Mayor and Mayoress were among the
guests.
Dorothy Brunton dropped in at the Anzac Hostel
to visit the soldier patients. The men were pleased
to see the popular actress, who was a good friend
to Diggers in London during the war years.
Mrs. C. E. Fullerton arranged a shlvoo for the
men of the Soldiers’ Handicrafts Depot, Mrs. Rosen-
dorff lending Whytecliffe. Bridge and mall jongg
were played, as well as croquet and midget golf
in the grounds. Among those present were the
Mayoress, the Blair lady, Mesdames Cumbrae
Stewart, M. Von Ploennies, J. C. Trotter, A. S.
Huybers, Phyllis Cowlishaw and Marjorie Pace.
The Press Institute welcomed the delegates to the
newspapermen’s conference at luncheon at Lennons’.
C. P. Smith (“West Australian”), had some nice
things to say of the Queensland editors and of Mrs.
Forrest, whose copy he first encountered when reading
on the “Argus.”
Archbishop Duhig lent Wynberg for a benefit to
the Cathedral Building Fund, members of the Holy
Name Cathedral committee supervising. Bridge
was played on the verandahs and in the Archbishop’s
crimson and gold “cardinal’s room.”
Mayor Greene has been invited to represent Bris-
bane at the conference of Playgrounds and Recreation
Associations to be held at Eos Angeles next year.
Cooee Blume’s marriage took place in St. Augus-
tine’s, Hamilton, the bridegroom being Pirie Fegan.
The bride’s uncle, Charles Biume, gave her away in
parchment bridal satin and lace, and a veil of
parchment tulle. Filmer Biume ’maided in tur-
quoise blue, Townsville and Cairns see the honeymoon.
Pretty Peggy Chauncey, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
J. H. Chauncey, is returning from England, where
she has been studying dancing at the Novikoff
School in London. She was in the Pavlova ballet
and treasures one of the famous dancer’s frocks.
She was offered an 18 months’ tour in England;
a suggestion from E. J. Tait brings her back to
Australia.
And now, Tassy:—
Free Kindergarten Week saw many schemes to
catch the nimble shilling for the good cause. The
most picturesque was the “Old-fashioned Dress
Parade” at the Congregational Hall. The period
coveted was from 1810 to 1912, and curiously
enough the later costumes looked much more old-
fashioned than the very earliest. Some of the even-
ing gowns were charming, and one green Court
dress, of satin and ivory moire, worn by Naomi
Kennedey, caught the eye. A little play dealing
with the French Revolution—the “Minuet”—was
put on as an extra attraction.
Charlotte Godena and Eustace Butler, after many
pre-wedding dances and teas, were united at St.
John’s, Newtown. Dr. and Mrs. Elliott held a
reception at their home afterwards, Mrs. Elliott
filling the place of the bride’s mother, who lives in
W.A. The bridegroom’s sister Dorothy was sole ’maid.
Newnham Racing Club held its meeting in pour-
ing rain. The “Wear More Wool” slogan was
practically demonstrated by the scarves, coats and
berets in evidence, and the bright coloring relieved
the greyness of the day. Brighton Jockey Club
had a fine day for its races, whither went a good
contingent from Hobart. President John Swan was
accompanied by daughter Phyllis, who sported blue
diagonal tweed with beret to match.
There was a capitally organised students’ recital
at the Town Hall for the Child Welfare Association.
All the competitors were first-prize winners for
1980 and 1931, so the standard of performance was
high. The Lieut.-Gov. and his lady, Mayor and
Mayoress Soundy and a big crowd of musical folk
were there.
The Wilkinson House Ball, engineered by,the Old
Wilkinsonians of Launceston Church Grammar School,
came off in the Masonic Hall. The ballroom was all
pink with peach blossom, streamers and shaded
lights, and the ante-room all red, with a big fire.
C. King was hon. sec., and David Armitage’s orchestra
made the music. Beside the crowd of younger
dancing folk the guests included the Head and Mrs.
S. R. Adams, Rev. J. W. Bethune (president), Mr.
and Mrs. Hugh Fraser, the L. T. Mclntyres, Mr. and
Mrs. A. H. Harry, Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Parker,
Mr. and Mrs. H. V. Jones, Brig.-Gen. and Mrs.
W. Martin, Mr. R. E. Smith, Mesdames C. Irvine and
E. Beveridge, Col. Harrap, Sergeant and Mrs. B.
Robinson, Mr. S. Hopwood, Misses K. Richardson,
A. Windeatt and N. Hopwood.


Missing Friends.
Re M. A. E. HOLMAN —Deceased.
YV/ILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
w ALFRED FULLER HOLMAN (son
of Samuel Bellamy Holman and Hannah
Jemima Fuller), who left home about fifty
(50) years ago, and now aged about eighty-
five (85). please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart,
TO EDITH ALICE. HULSE the wife of
A ALBERT EDWIN HULSE formerly
of Walsall Staffordshire England but
now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your said husband
has instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards. Unless you enter an
appearance at the office of the Prothonotarv
of the Supreme Court of Victoria at Wil-
liam Street Melbourne on or before the
24th day of July 1931 the case may proceed
in your absence AND lAKE FI RIHER
NOTICE that if you intend to defend tins
suit you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the 3rd day ot August
1931.
SEPTIMUS A. RALPH & SON.
430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
KENNY. —If LOUISA and JOHN and
BAYLEE KENNY, children of Wil-
liam and Louisa Kenny and niece and
nephews of the late Baylee Henry Rogers,
will communicate with "HE Eyuiix
TRUSTEES CO., LTD., of 4i2 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, they will hear something
to their advantage. , , .
The above children were last heard ot m
Platina, New South Wales, about 30 years
ago.
TO GEORGE SCHMAHL formerly of Fitzroy in the
1 Shite of Victoria but now of parts unknown
Motor Mechanic. ~,... onuu * ui
TAKE NOTICE that your wife GRACE SCHMAHL
has commenced proceedings in the Supreme Court
of Victoria for a divorce on the ground of deseitiou
for three years and upwards UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the Btn
dav of July 1931 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs,
AND FURTHER if you intend to defend the Suit
of your said wife you do cause an Answer to be
filed in the said office within ten days from the
entry of the said appearance. Power
This advertisement is inserted by G. M. S Row e
of the Titles Office Melbourne Public Solicitor for
Victoria Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Amusements.
A -*
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’* 1 Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: A NIGHT OUT
(Commencing June 27).
THEATRE ROYAL: THE CALENDAR.
1 E wTLLI AM SON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD
(Commencing June 27).
•XWQLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Lessees: -Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
OVERSEAS CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and S p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
ARE WE BEING SAVED? NO!
What did the Premiers’ Conference
really do for Australia?
See “THE BARRIER MINER” of
last Saturday, the Best Daily Paper
of its size in Australia.
The Far West people rarely see
metropolitan papers, and never miss
them. * They get “THE BARRIER
MINER,” published at Broken Hill.'
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Clizabethan
Tea Rooms
Rom contanl soa[?] [?]
[?] 800 [?]
Buckley e-Numn [?]
[?]
After a wet and dreary week tlie sun burst
forth on Saturday afternoon and made the
V.A.T.C. races enjoyable, and the attendance
was large. Women came equipped for mid-
winter furs, especially squirrel, being in
favor. Orchids and daphne were popular as
coat-posies. One of the loveliest wraps on
view was worn by Mrs. U. J. Nicholas —
dyed squirrel with a fox collar. Mrs. Ben
Chaffey’s black velvet coat was collared with
skunk allied to velvet millinery. Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson’s coat and skirt had collar, cuffs and
bordering of leopard skin, and she carried a
muff of the same fur. June Baillieu showed
a dash of red beneath her black cloth coat,
which had narrow shoulder capes. Her beret
was black velvet. Mr. and Mrs. James
Purves, Mrs. Joseph Fell and her daughter,
Mrs. Jervis Crespin, Mrs. Merson Cooper, in
suit of cafe au lait tones; Mrs. R. G. Casey
and Mrs. Clive Leonard were in the members’
stand.
The last hop at which Lord and Lady
Somers were present in an official capacity
was the Toe 11. ball at St. Ivilda Plaza.
Eight debutantes took this opportunity—it
may be the last so far as this State is con-
cerned —of getting in a curtsey to vice-regal
personages. The wind came rain-laden from
the sea, and one of the v.-r. party declared
that the red carpet arose octopus-like to
embrace her as -she stepped from her car to
enter the hall. As the Somers pair and their
party had to pace the full length of the
ballroom, a stretch of felt was laid to the
dais, and rolled up again when all were
safely across the highly-polished floor. The
duties of host and hostess fell to General
Chauvel and his lady, and the local presi-
dent of Toe H., H. ,T. Ramsay, and his wife.
Lady Somers sported dark-green georgette
with diamonds. Lieutenant-Governor Irvine
was accompanied by his lady, who trailed
black velvet. Mrs. Ramsay was in draperies
of black lace. Patricia Clarke, in white
lace, was hon. ticket sec. In the bunch of
debs, were Patricia Newbigin, Margot Lem-
priere and Barbara Syme. Among country
visitors were Major J. O. Fairbairn and Mrs.
Fairbairn, she in white chiffon, and Mrs. lan
Currie, whose white lace gown was in early-
Victorian mode, sloped off the shoulders and
with ■ a skirt all little flounces. The Alan
Curries, George Landales, Oscar Lemprieres
and Russell Grimwades were in the well-
dressed company, which numbered many hun-
dreds. Mayor and Mayoress Luxton came
to this ball after putting in an appearance
at the dance on the Manunda.
It was a dirty night on Friday, with half
a gale of wind and rain in sheets, but aboard
the Manunda, which had been lent to Mrs.
J. Kermode for a dance in aid of the Queen
Victoria Hospital, all was cosy and bright.
The Lud Mayor and Mrs. H. Luxton were
there, she wearing black with a velvet wrap
collared with white fur. Mr. and Mrs. W.
M. Robins also joined the dancers. Mrs.
Robins, who is president of the hospital
auxiliaries, wore black lace, and she and the
Mayoress received posies. The manager of
the'Adelaide S. S. Co., F. Bridgman, brought
his wife, whose cosmos-purple chiffon was
topped with a black and silver brocade coat.
The captain and officers gave social aid, and
Mrs. Kermode had the assistance of her
daughter lolanthe, in black lace with touch
of green, and Marjorie Lockwood.
The Lawn Tennis Association staged its
first dance of this season at the Kooyong
clubhouse. Helen Sage, who came in a
Frenchy confection of the faintest blue taf-
feta, was associated with Mrs. G. A. Cook
in arranging the very effective floral deco-
rations. There was pink heath in masses
in the ballroom, and in a room where bridge
was played by some, crimson carnations,
coral flowers and gladioli blended with the
firelight glow. The new manager of the
association, R. W. A. Cox, helped the com-
mittee, and vice-presidents 11. A. Pitt and
Edmund Jowett were on hand. Among the
dancers were Connie Woods and Gretta
McCulloch, both in black chiffon.
No. 9 Darling-street, with its kindly shade
of pink-veiled lights, mingled with pinker
flowers and rosy candles, was the location
for the dance of the St. Vincent Nurses’
Association. Betsy Considine, the president,
with her light brown locks braided crown-
like, was in mushroom-pink chiffon, and
Mrs. Burston, chief engineer of the jollo,
had a shoulder-spray of white camellias
upon her olive-green satin frock. Mrs. F, T.
McGrath danced in cherry-red satin, and
Miss A. Cavanagli, the treasurer, wore
burgundy-tinted chiffon. Among doctors’
waves who accompanied their spouses were
Mrs. Leo Doyle, in pow r der-blue chiffon and
pink rosebuds; Mrs. M. R. Healy, who com-
bined in her attire cream lace aind gold
lame ; Mrs. J. Kennedy 'and Mrs. Lewis. The
vice-president, Miss Quinlan, helped to keep
things running smoothly.
At the Loreto Old Girls’ Association’s
dance, held at No. 9, there w r ere nine
debutantes, seven of them ex-pupils of St.
Mary’s, Mount Ballarat, and the other two
former students at Marideville Hall, Toorak.
Clad in white and carrying wee' posies they
made their bows to the president of the
association, Mrs. E. M. McKenna, whose
garnet-red draperies were topped with a
coat of the same hue. The hop, profits of
which went to Loreto Free Kindergarten,
was secretaried by Laura Hayden and Cassi
Duane, both in black. Edith Hoare,
treasurer, brightened black draperies with a
touch of turquoise blue. Among the dancers
Were Girlie O’Sullivan, in dahlia-red lace,
apd Doris Winter, in cherry velvet.
Mrs. C. N. Finn, Dolly Castles that was,
opmmandcered Eileen Castles, Captain Guy
Moore, Hugh Steyne and violinist Cecil
Parkes to provide entertainment for a cabaret
and bridge party at Myers to help the
Broadmeadows Foundling Home. Mrs. J. C.
Westlioven and Mrs. T. M. Burke were
organisers, and Mary Winter was ticket sec.,
Mrs. Esmond Downey attending to the adver-
tising.
Beth, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. Thwaites,
of East Malvern, had a coming-of-age party
at her home. She wore satin of parchment
hue with a jade pendant and bracelet, guts
of the day. Mrs. Thwaites. in black, bright-
ened by a shoulder-spray of orchids, greeted
the guests with her just-of-age daughter.
Pat, a younger daughter, wore platinum and
pale grey checked taffeta.
Melbourne presswomen were bidden to
partake of a farewell cup of morning tea
with Lady Somers at Stonington on Satur-
day. There was an informal over
the teacups, in which Mrs. R. T. A.
McDonald and Miss Speir participated.
A parting gift which greatly pleased Lady
Somers was handed to her by the committee
of the Queen Victoria Hospital—a box ol
polished Australian wood containing a couple
of packs of cards the backs of which were
designed by artist Herbert.
On behalf of the K.V.1.8. a bridge .party
was held at the home of Mrs. D. .T. McClel-
land, patroness of the Brighton Auxiliary.
Peggy Clarke, Peggy Cameron and Eileen
Cust, all officers of the auxiliary, were the
organisers.
Mrs. W. M. Robins, president of the
auxiliaries of the Queen Victoria Hospital,
was the chief engineer of a bridge party at
the Wattle on behalf of the institution. Over
400 people shuffled cards and made purchases
of the ilowers, sweets and other trifles on
sale.
There was a double wedding in the family
of Mr. and Mrs. J. Harley, of Caulfield,
when their daughter Raie became Mrs Wil-
liam Iv. TJnsworth, and their son Clifford
was linked to Helen Wilson, the bond-forg-
ing being done at St.. George’s, Malvern, by
the Rev. Rex Harley, another son. Raie
Harley wore white satin with a touch of
pink beneath her tulle veil, her bridesmaid
being in blue chiffon. Miss Wilson, whose
’maids sported pink chiffon, was arrayed
in clialk-white satin and tulle.
Jean Rennie and the bridegroom’s sister,
Alison Smalley, accompanied Beta Showers
down the aisle of St. John’s kirk, Essendon.
when she linked her, fortunes with those of
Kenneth,, son of the J. Smalleys, of Bettdigo.
White chiffon that fell into graceful folds and
flares and a veil of Honiton lace graced the
bride, the youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. F. Showers, of Essendon. Her ’maids
wore lace of mushroom-pink tint, triple
flounced, and roses breathed their hair. .A
few guests gathered at the Oriental' after
the ceremony.
Major-General G. W. Barber handed his
youngest daughter, Elizabeth, over to Charles
R. Bunning, second son of the Robert Buri-
nings of Perth, at. St. John’s, Toorak. The
bridal array was white satin and Limerick
lace, touches of color being introduced by a
bouquet of pink camellias and a coral neck-
let. The . attendant ’maids were the bride-
groom’s sister Marion and Ann Outhwaite.
With frocks of mushroom-pink lace exhibit-
ing flares of tulle, they wore dainty velvet
coats of a deeper hue edged with white fur,
and lace Juliet caps and bouquets to match.
General and Mrs. Barber entertained the
guests at No. 9.
This is the latest picture taken by Broo-
thorn of Lady Somers, wife of the State
<i o v e r n o r,
who shook off
the chains of
office yester-
day. As this
Page went to
print Lord
and Lady
Somers and
their little
daughter set
out for home
by way of
South Africa.
Tli e y intend
to leave
the Orsova
at Colombo
an d there
boar d th e
0.5.1 v. Monte
Video Ma r u
for the land of
Boers and
Kaffirs, where
they will stay for some weeks, and then
resume their journey to England.
A reception to folk connected with various
charities was the last party staged by the
vice-regals. A couple of hundred persons
thronged the drawing-room and clustered
about the glowing fire in the hall, where
greetings and good-byes were said. Arum-
lilies were the central feature of the deco-
rations. Lady Somers wore ninon figured in
futurist style iu pink, green and apricot, with
a sable stole. Miss Speir was in apple-
green chiffon, with pink blossoms on the
corsage. White satin, clinging in attractive
lines, was worn by Betty Fairbairn and
Mrs. T. Hunter. Satin of the faintest blue
was chosen by Mrs. W. Seymour. Pat Clarke
wore a pretty frock of white lace with a
short jacket trimmed in white fur. Mrs.
S. M. Bruce’s gown was gros grain in tones
of pink and green. Nancy Clarke, of Syd-
ney, who came with Mrs. T. a’Beckett,
sported her Court gown of white chiffon
embroidered in crystal beads in a check
design. Bishop Chambers, of Tanganyika,
accompanied the Rev. Eustace Wade and
Mrs. Wade. Medical-knight James Barrett
and his lady, the Richard Lintons, Mrs.
James Alston and General Chauvel and his
lady, she in pale pink, were there. Phyllis
Mary Dunne, not long back from European
travel, chose dull gold lame with the cor-
sage outlined in embossed leaves of dark-
green velvet. Kathleen Ahern looked smart
in golden brocade.
It was unfortunate for the mannequins
who participated in a show of Australian-made
bathing-suits and lingerie at the Australia
that our winter was at its wintriest and snow
lay on the hills. Many of the girls were culled
from the ballet of “Follow a Star.” Smartly
fashioned in stripes and checks with gay
embroideries, bathing costumes were so cut
as to impart a suggestion of slenderness to
the inclined-to-plumpness. Detachable capes
and flared skirts went with some of the
models. Undies, nighties and pyjamas with
skirt-like trousers figured in the parade,
which drew an audience of 300. _
In a farewell speecli at Somers. Camp,
Balnarring, Lord Somers said he proposed
to revisit Australia in a couple of years
time. According to a promise ot some
months ago, his Ex. spent a final week-end
at the boys’ camp he founded; 240 boys
rolled up.' Dr. G. C. McAdam pre-
sented the. Governor with a leather-bound
book containing the names of all who had
spent a vacation at the camp. A further
memento that Lord Somers takes away with
him is a picture of the camp in oils by
Arthur Strecton.
At an afternoon-tea mingling of members
of the Women Citizens’ Movement, ■ Rose
Browne, daughter of the late “Rolf Boldre-
wood” Browne, recounted incidents of her
father’s life and family history. The presi-
dent, Mrs. Britomarte James, welcoming this
guest, mentioned that Miss Browne is an
authoress herself. Beside contributing
articles to various papers as a free-lance,
she has published a book and has written her
father’s memoirs.
A Victorian who ranks high among pianists
in musical circles abroad looks from out this
page. She is Mrs. J. R. Hartpence (on the
concert stage
Madame Jessie
Masson), who
is revisiting
Melbourne with
her husband.
The daughter
of a Melbourne
architect, she
studied the
piano under
Marshall Hall
and Edouard
Schar f, and
polished up her
art in Berlin
wi t h li'err
Kwast. -Dur-
ing her stay
here she is the
guest of Mr.
and Mrs. Her-
bert Brookes,
of South
Yar r a. Mrs. _ ,
Hartpence’s friendship with Mrs. Brookes
dates back to tlie time they were fellow-
students in this city. At the mid-week Mrs.
Brookes scattered invitations for a reception
at Wimwick in honor of her visitor. r lhe
hostess wore a black gown that featured a
deep yoke of ecru lace and net, topped by a
black felt hat. Mrs.'Hartpence’s stone-colored
kasha suit was allied to a felt hat of russet-
brown tint. After some speech-making there
was general chatting, and. contralto Violet
Somerset sang, with Katie Liddle at the
piano. Some pictures by Mary Allen,
daughter of the Allen, lady, were on view, and
included portraits with unusual and vividly-
colored backgrounds; there was also a land-
scape that suggested a bit of our own bush
after . a blaze. Among the guests were
Mayoress Luxton, Mrs. Alfred Deakm, Mrs.
David Kivett. Mrs. T. W, White and Mrs.
Wilfred Brookes.
Mrs. Norman Gibbs poured tea at the
Lyceum Club in honor of Mrs. Hartpencc.
The guests were personal friends of the
pianist, and “Do you remembers?” punctuated
the chatter.
Mrs. Hartpence, in grey georgette embossed
in green chenille, and accompanied by her
husband, was welcomed by the Music Club,
for which Mr. T. Brentnall was spokesman.
The secretary, Muriel Campbell, in black
lace and chiffon, handed the guest a posy.
Mrs. Fritz Hart. Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
Mary Campbell and Lucy Rowe were in the
gathering.
Airs. Edward Bage, who died on Thurs-
day -.after an illness of a month, was
long associated with civic, educational and
charitable movements in this city. Few
women in Australia had so wide and varied
a field of interest, and her kindly, unobtru-
sive manner made her hosts of friends, who
miss her greatly. She was a foundation mem-
ber of the National Council of Women and
the treasurer for 20 years; she was also
an early member of the Alexandra and
Lyceum Clubs. Freda Bage, principal of
the Women’s College of Queensland Uni., is
a daughter, and Ethel Bage, who runs a
garage, is another.
Westralia sends a note: —
A cluster of dentists with their wives or best girls
had a jolly dinner at the Palace, and afterwards
joined the rest of their coterie at Temple Court for
the annual Dental Ball. In between fox-trots, eight
hairy-limbed male ballet-dancers amused the on-
lookers with an imitation of the undulating wriggles
of Cleopatra’s maidens, afterwards becoming prancing
nymphs scattering cabbage leaves and leeks. Mrs.
C. Terry wore black chiffons; Maisie Campbell’s
black draperies attached to narrow shoulder straps
glistened with crystal; Mrs. Tom Flintoff was
another dancer who favored the midnight shade;
Gwen Tebbutt chose willow-blue satin; Marjorie Luyer
wore dark green laces; Mrs. Ambrose Cummins was a
silhouette in lime taffetas, and Betty Davies a flutter
in Madonna-blue figurings.
An original idea for helping to keep the head of
the Kindergarten Union above water is a call for
old gold. The Royal Mint’s melting-pot- swallows
watch bracelets and other trinkets, and pays for
the gold extracted.
Members of the Royal Perth Yacht Club proudly
displayed their enlarged balconies and glassed-in
visitors’ rooms at their annual hop. Felix Levinson
and his Wife welcomed the guests. From Mrs.
Levinson’s sapphire gown swung shoulder draperies;
Mrs. Tregonning was in Nile-green chiffons; Mrs.
Eugene Levinson chose a paler tone of mignonette
for her frock; flowered taffetas clad Mrs. Jack
Stewart; Mrs. Brendon Garner was slim in black;
Mrs. Wreford favored black taffetas; Mesdames Reg-
Long, J. Beaton and Strang all chose the pink of
early dawn. Betty Herbert, Betty McCulloch, Vera
Saw, Joyce Rossiter and Ena Cockram were among
the lassies present.
The Strand restaurant has added another cabaret
to the list. Nellie Bramley, a vision in gold and
silver, opened the first dance. Mrs. Craven Griffiths,
in ivory georgettes, brought daughters Mabel, in lilac,
and Nancy, in chalk-white laces ; Mrs. Hugh Banger’s
flowered chiffons were noticeable ; Miss Britten wore
red and Mrs. O’Toole black velvet, sequin- trimmed.
The Wattle Ball Committee at Claremont always
makes a success of its annual joilo. The chairman’s
wife, Mrs. A. J. Baker, in an all-blue toilette, and
Mrs. Hatchett, in water-green velvet, were to the fore.
Dorothy Baker was a - pink and creamy, medley; satin
bands ornamented Jean Lang’s sherry-red net; flattery
red frills were Betty Clement’s choice; Marjorie
Cusack’s tiered gown was of apricot; Ethel Diamond s
flaxen hair . curle4 above pink velvet, and a glitter
of 'diamente upon one shoulder; and black had a
devotee in Mrs. T. Ahern. ...
To the Rev. Dr. J. T. McMahon belongs the credit
of founding the Newman Society in this State, and
giving it a good start. Membership is open to
professional men and women and to Uni. grads, and
undergrads. In celebration of. University Sunday
about 130 people heard early Mass in St. Mary s
Cathedral ; the women in gowns and trenchers.
The South Aus! Little Sister writes: —
An immense amount of all black is worn now b.v
our womenfolk. When they add a. narrow edging of
white ribbon to their close-fitting black toques,
Adelaide looks like the home of the “Merry Widow.
Dr. Ethel Hillier lent the National Council of
Women her beautiful home at Parlcside for a party.
One large reception-room was set aside for music,
bridge was played in another, while the hostess and
Mrs. Frank Rymill looked after the tea. There
were three stalls in addition and the returns were
satisfactory.
Rear-Admiral E. R. G. R. Evans, Mrs. Evans
and their two sons were the guests of Mr. and Mrs.
Lavington Bonython at St. Corantyn, East-terrace,
while the Tudor was in port. They went for a trip
to Victor Harbor and attended several functions.
A number of well-known Adelaide people left by
the Mongolia, among them Dr. and Mrs. Bernard
Dawson and family, Mrs. J. G. Kelly and her
daughter and Joan Haclcett.
The Social Club at the Adelaide University has a
very live committee, and their Saturday-night
dances are much sought-after entertainments. Last
week more than 200 were present. Dr. and Mrs.
Rex Matters (joint presidents) received the guests;
Mrs. Matters looked smart in Lido-blue satin, and
many pretty frocks were worn. Dancing was in
the refectory, decorated with sc-arlet poinsettia.
There will be a record number of debutantes at the
University Ball on July 1; Mrs. Arthur Rymill has
undertaken the tutoring of the maidens in their parts.
The Eight Vagabonds, under the supervision of
Ivcrwin Maegraith, have given two successful enter-
tainments at Australia Hall in aid of the Mothei s
and Babies’ Health Association. George Horton, of
Edward Branscombe fame, was stage manager. Society
generally assisted with its presence.


DON’T LINGER ON IN
PAIN AND SUFFERING!
“Oh! oh! my back—it’s nearly breaking. I can’t get
straight again once I stoop down. It seems just as though
an iron hand is gripping me, wrenching the muscles, making
me just sick with pain” . . . . •
How many thousands of men and women, victims of
torturing lumbago, could repeat these words? How many
have come to the brink of breakdown by chronic symptoms
that actually reveal deep-seated kidney trouble?
POISONS IN YOUR BLOOD ARE
CAUSING YOUR SUFFERING
It is vitally important that you should realise the fact that
the pain you suffer is caused by poisons in the blood, for then
you will know that the only rational method of ending your
trouble is to prompt the kidneys to their natural work of
keeping the blood free from pain-giving impurities.
Thousands of one-time sufferers, now restored to health,
will tell you there is no surer, safer, more certain and inex-
pensive remedy for lumbago, chronic backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, bladder trouble and all the sure sighs of kidney
trouble, than De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Where all
other remedies fail, in cases where men and women have been
bed-ridden, or perhaps have suffered—not weeks, but years—
De Witt’s Pills have banished the old pain and restored health.
\\ \ A v \ 1 11 \ihlI / <////// >
De WITTS
KIDNEY AND BLADDER
f
THIS REMEDY
BEARS A DEFINITE
GUARANTEE.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills carry a very definite guar-
antee to show results in 24 hours
from the very first dose. The
color of the urine tells you these
strength-restoring pills are acting
directly on the kidneys. But be
sure you obtain the genuine
remedy. Don tbe misled by any
imitation or substitute—see the
name clearly on the package.
When you have the true De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
cost but 3/6 per box, you may be
assured you have really started on
the road to permanent health and
strength. Ask your chemist how
good they are.
TERRIBLE PAINS IN BACK
RELIEVED.
Mr. W. Monagham, Second
Avenue, Campsie (N.S.W.), says :
“Owing to working in the damp
basement of building, I was
troubled with terrible pains in my
back, and could not stand straight.
A friend recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and
one bottle was sufficient to relieve
me.. I have.never had any return
of my trouble since.”
Mr. W. H. Curtis, 31 Wright
Street, Adelaide, writes: “About
five years ago I was laid up for
sixteen weeks with neuritis and
rheumatism, partially paralysed.
I was recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
I am happy to say pulled me
through. I am 74 years of age
and still able to hold my own
with younger men. I have en-
joyed the best of health ever
since.”
Four Days of Rain.
MARGARET FANE
AND HILARY L OFTING TELL HOW IT WROUGHT
ON THE PEOPLE OF THE ’LOO.
THAT fool Marco the dog flipped his
right ear and missed the fly as his
master, Marty, spoke again, his wor-
ried eyes searching the face of Ginger, the
adopted boy.
“But what’s wrong with it, Ginger?” he
asked unhappily.
“I dunno,” Ginger confessed, his brooding
gaze on Marco and the triumphant fly. “It’s
all wrong, seems to me.”
“And you think a circus’d be better, is
it, son?” Mary, Marty’s wife, demanded, “and
it trapesing the country towns of the State
and no place to sleep !”
“Well, Mother”—Ginger paused, disheart-
ened. How could you.make them understand?
They were old ; to them the store was the
Day of Judgment; it wasn’t too clever to
tell them flat-footed it was mud. Half o’
butter, tin o’ jam, half o’ cheese; biscuits,
haricot beans, tin o’ salmon, pickles; half
o’ ham, half o’ butter, butter.... And the
dirty ’Loo, shabby and grimy and broke —
who wouldn’t want to get out of it? A year
out of school had given him the strength of
this wonderful store, and it was M-u-d. And
at 15, if a cove couldn’t —and after four
days of rain!
“We always thought, mother and me,”
Marty’s gentle voice broke in. “that you’d
carry on, as you might say, Ginger. When
you came to us”
“I know that,” Ginger caught him up,
“and no one could think more of it than me,
Dad. If you hadn’t taken me in five years
ago I’d have been —well, I dunno where I’d
have been. But”- ;
“But what, Son?” That quality of melody
rang softly in Mary’s voice. “Wouldn’t it
be a great thing, now, for us to know—and
maybe say a ‘Hail Mary’ for—that you’ll be
here in your comfortable store when we are
at rest and can’t be here to help. It’d make
our old minds easy, do ye see? And it’s a
good store —better than it looks; there’s
not many in Sydney itself can show the same
profit on the turnover. And it’s ours; and
you are ours.”
Ginger stared miserably at her while the
melody seemed to linger softly on a back- '
ground of persuasive silence. “I know,
Mother, but this fellow”-
The glory of this fellow encompassed him
again, heartening him and banishing the un-
happy hesitation. “He offered Marco a job,”
he went on firmly. “I was putting him
through his tricks in Potty Granger’s yard,
and this fellow looked at ’em and laughed
and asked for some of ’em two or three times
over. Then he says ‘Look, Digger,’ he says,
‘we’re taking a bit of a circus round the
towns,’ ” a lyrical note crept into Ginger’s
voice, “ ‘there’s no work in the city, and
that pup of yours—of course, he wants
proper training, but he’s got it in him —
see? That’s the point: it’s in him, and he’d
train easy. Now what’s the matter with him
and you joining the show?’ ”
Ginger gulped and took another breath
while Marco caught the fly and ate it.
“ ‘Make a. fortune with a pup like that,’
he says,” Ginger sped on, “ ‘and it’d be an
easy job for you—bit o’ cleanin’ • up' every
day and that’s about all. You think it over,
Digger, and let me know this week. I’m at
Mrs. Bull’s, top o’ Barge-street.’ You see,
Dad,” Ginger’s quickened eyes looked up
at Marty, “I’d be on the move and I’d like
it and —and, well, I’d like it.”
“And you don’t like the store?” Marty
added sadly.
“Well”.... They were hard, mother and
dad ; the old difficult feeling came back. You
couldn’t say you hated the place—that three
meals a day and running up and down the
’Loo with a basket of groceries was no sort
of life ; that even school every day had had
more kick in it than that. But there it was.
And here was a bosker chance to shake it.
A circus Marco on the stage ! The swift
glow burned its way back. “When you were
15, Dad, would you have liked the store?”
“I’d have been glad of the chance to like
it, Son,” Marty told him gravely.
“Better than a circus and your dog on
the stage?” Ginger persisted.
Mary sighed sharply, stood up, and went
gently out of the room, not glancing at
Ginger or dad.
Marty looked miserably after her, sighing
also. “It’ll break her heart, this! will,” he
murmured. “Break her heart at last.”
They were hard. A baffled, hopeless anger
stirred in Ginger; they hit below ; the belt;
they
The doorway darkened and a sudden dark
shadow seemed to pour itself in. At the
counter a thin girl stood in despair, her eyes
heavy with unutterable woe.
Marty came down the steps. “Well,
Giuseppa?” he said.
“It is the blood, Signor.” H’er voice was
cold and soft as death. “The mother’s
blood!”
Terror touched Marty, staring at this
bleak olive face. “But, Giuseppa,” he stam-
mered. “What”-
“The knife was there. Some sorrow—
who knows?” Tragic hands flickered and
were still. “And now—Death. 0 mama
mia!” The high mourning cry shuddered to
the roof, was gone in aching silence.
“Death?” Marty’s bewildered eyes saw the
girl’s stilled, lost face; the shop was full of
horror and despair. “You mean—your
mother’s dead?”
“Dead, Signor,” she told him, her voice
soft and cold again. She seemed to droop
suddenly, to become eternal sorrow standing
in the shop.
Marty looked at Ginger, who was staring
rapt at the girl. “We’d better go round,
Ginger,” he muttered. “It’s Mrs. Scala, in
Triangle-street. Come on.”
Three silent shadows fled round the corner.
“I can’t believe,” Marty broke the silence.
“Mrs. Scala’s Australian—old Dempsey’s
girl—not an Italian. She wouldn’t”....
The shadows fled on in silence again.
On the threshold of the shop the girl
paused, her thin lifted hand an impassable
barrier. “Go softly,” she counselled them,
all desolation in the words. “Death is here!”
Through his thrill of horror Marty was
conscious of Ginger’s spellbound gaze on her
as she drooped again and seemed to become
all the mourning, daughters of all time. With
tender reverence she opened the door, stood
a moment with bent head, and walked
through the shop.
Mrs. Scala looked up from a box of specked
apples and smiled. “Hullo, Marty,” she
said. “What brings you and Ginger both
away from the shop?”
Marty’s dumbfounded silence made her
look again; she saw his stricken face,
“What’s up?” she asked anxiously, leaving the
box and dusting her hands against each other.
“We—we thought you were dead.”
She laughed. “Not me! All alive-o, Marty,
and on the job. Who was it killed me off
in me prime?”
Marty was still too stunned to reply.
“I bet it was that young ’Seppa; she
came in with you. Wasn’t it?” w 1
“Well—er—yes, Mrs. Scala,” Marty con-
fessed.
, “Put the wind up you—blood and knives
and all that? That’s her line; I know it was
her.”.' Mrs. Scala sat on the j edge of - the
counter. “You know, that’s an awful girl,
Marty—a fair.terror, I call her.. Whenever
things are a bit dull she goes on a sort of
scoot-to-get- a kick into f ’em again.”
Marty wiped the cold sweat from his fore-
head. “It’s a bit trying, Mrs. Scala.”
“I should think it was,” she agreed. “Don’t
you take any notice of her, Marty. It’s all
lies—all me eye and Betty Martin. And
her a great girl of 14!”
Scala loomed into the shop. “No
Bett Martin, canssima” He flashed a smile
and smote f a vast brow. “Genius—the tem-
P e ™ mei ? te • , ,
Genius me shoulder-blade, Mrs. Scala
suggested ( wearily. Here, Seppu.
, , A imperturbable child was before
them, a Mack shadow against the tiers of
°ranges. Mamma, she said dutuully.
YV hat , did you do it for, Seppa?” Mrs.
Scala asked, a half-smile touching her lips.
Giuseppa shrugged. Her indifferent eyes,
black and lustrous, watched them with a
vague scorn I had not seen the sun for
four days, she said.
Ettore Scala wagged a portentous fore-
finger in Marty’s face. “Genius, Signor!”
he announced again. “My daughter shall
be great actress—oh, yes,” lie insisted. “The
day is grey with rain, the ’ouse is quiet—
it is dull, dead. She maka da story,” he
whispered, swelling a. little—“her own, for
herself. The grey is gone—light, colora
comes. It is well; God is good; the jump
is in life again. Soon she walks in the
story. Her mind says .‘Well done!’ Clap
the ’ands—thunder. Great actress—Milano,
Napoli, Roma—maka da forcli’,” lie added
comfortably, regarding them in pride.
Ginger, all eyes, felt a something here.
There was old Scala telling the tale, and
Mrs. Scala picking over her apples with a
sort of a half-smile round her lips, and the
girl like a quiet fire smouldering against
the oranges. The shop was piled with fruit
—all the colors of the rainbow, gleaming and
twinkling, seemed to make the right place
for the girl, for all she was quiet and didn’t
care. The girl
Suddenly her voice slipped out in a fiery
music, swift like a stone hurling itself into
the sky and falling far away. Her father
stood upright and made a banner of his
hands, booming a rumbling thunder in reply,
The girl looked at him, and let a deep silence
hold the shop rigid for a moment before sin:
spoke again. She lifted one hand and let it
fall—nothing will ever matter any more,
for ever, the hand seemed to say. Ettore shot
a vast sound at her, and she drooped in
everlasting submission—she was a slave,
Ginger could see, and did not dare to lift
her head, nor hoped to do so until death.
Ettore muttered, in contempt, it seemed,
Her voice leapt on him, tearing him asunder
and trampling him into the earth. She was
a mighty queen with blazing eyes, towering
over the little people in the shop; Ginger
could see great armies marching over miles
of sand, stern-faced men plotting in palaces,
ships racing in the sea. In a moment she
was quiet again, her voice creamy and sweet,
comforting, and her face all gentle, with
veiled eyes.
Ginger watched, all eyes. Something
stirred here, tingling. You could believe
that you were far away, that the ’Loo was
a small thing and yet close to you, that
mother and dad— —-
“Listen, Ginger,” Marty brought him back
—“hadn’t we better be getting back to the
shop ? Mother’ll wonder what’s happened us.”
The girl’s veiled eyes watched them go.
Was'there a faint smile in them, Ginger
wondered. Vaguely there was a smile in
the grey streets after four days of rain—a
sort of life from far away you could believe.
The shop being shut and tea not yet ready,
mo ther had a word with Ginger
• “About this circus business. Ginger,” she
began. “I don’t see that we’ve the right to
s tand in your way or persuade you out of
it*s your wisll. ,,
Ginger stared at her. Circus—-circus? He
flrisliod; her face looked quiet and patient,
but somehow older, he thought, than yester-
day. < Tve beeu thinking, Mother,” he lied,
“ and j don’t ■ believe I’ll go.”
She looked up as Marty came in, “You
-won’t go?” she said as if it was the world,
“No,” he told her thoughtfully, half feel-
ing the life that was in the streets and
Scala’s shop creep into the room. “It
wouldn’t be too good for Marco, I expect,
He might go sick on me.”
Marty started to fill his pipe in the warm
silence.
“Gosh!” Ginger exclaimed. He sat up.
“Here, you’re a nice pair—what about that
order of Snowy Stevens? And here’s me
promised it this arvo certain! Gosh!” He
ran down the steps into the shop and
switched on the light. “Come on, shake it
up, Dad,” he called ; “I’ll take it round now.
A tin of plum jam, a half o’ butter—'here’s
the butter”


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
life.
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles —Ensure maximum
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., L TD. Brisbane rhanrerv House
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery tio ,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
“THE AGE"
Established 1854-
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reaeh the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,"
which others have found to be productive. Let
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 122,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to- the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Cbc new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for . a weekly budget of
official and “up -to - the - minute
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the "N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
Ok mercury
—by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the °th® r
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence ot
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign ever
launched in Tasmania without THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street? Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wikcm,
House, 30 Carrington btreet, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” map be
obtained at all inter-state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common*
wealth. It features everythin:? -
woman ought to know. Once vnf,
read it you will never be without^
Its up-to-date weekly pattern &
free for the asking. la
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
214 George Street, Sydney. **
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTU
BOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE BY THE TRENCH
GOVERNMENT
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vu
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
&r
lo
tty
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen-
ticity and che purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME OF THE SPRING
BEAR. THIS
IN MIND
Robe following statement defies contradiction}
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but. when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or hot) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the -corld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Sxannne the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER,
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymoulh Street, Adelaide.
16 Bridge Street, Sydney, iV S.W.
" WEST. AUSTRALIA:
' Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
BSSS-'wSd T the “Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspape
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers. '
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GJ°.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from,
for which I enclose £.....
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
a
«>
O'
I* 0
S e< f
+*0 c&e 6
’ , rtli’ «.\6 J'v- .-•■ .tf'V'f 4,4
*<* ■--
o°
o'
if?


CHEMIST says:
“Everyone should save money by
making the best family cough
and influenza remedy with HEENZO ”
MR. PETER DAWSON,
The world-famous Australian baritone, writes
“A few doses of HEENZO quickly dispelled
a cold that had troubled me for weeks.”
COSTS 21- SAVES £’s
( t * *. • '
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading chemist, that will enable people to make
the best family cough remedy, and at the same time save much money.
Everybody knows that a good cough and influenza remedy consists of two
main sections:
The first section is the undiluted medicinal ingredients; and the second is. of
course, the necessary water and sweetening. The preparation of the medicinal
ingredients requires trained knowledge, but the water sweetening can
be added in the home just as easily as in the pharmacy. And you save a lot
of money by doing so. Now, prove these facts by trying this HEENZO
recipe: Into a jug put four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either treacle or
honey, two of vinegar, and a large breakfastcupful of warm water. Stir till
dissolved, and when the syrup is quite cold pour into a large bottle,-and then
add a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO, obtained from your
chemist or store. By doing this you will have a family supply equal in quantity
and superior in quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best ready-mixed
cough remedy that, if purchased in the usual way, would cost up to £l. An
outstanding feature about HEENZO is the fact that it is a safe remedy for
babies as well as adults, and over 12,000 people have written letters
proclaiming it the best remedy they have ever used for quickly banishing
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis and influenza.
a
is equally good for young or old as
a remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS, CROUP, BRONCHITIS, ’FLU.
The BEST tonic for
regaining your health and
strength is
TONIC
MEAN
S
*
® tt«
• m
*L®
••
«
• v ® mm
mmm
A few bottles of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS will
quickly banish NERVES, NEURITIS, INSOMNIA,
ANAEMIA, and other nervous ailments.
They cost 31- per bottle throughout Australia.
SINGERS
SPEAKERS
TRA VELLERS
you should always carry a tin of
HEENZO
COUGH DIAMONDS
The wonderful chest and throat JUBES.
They cost 1/- per tin —the best chest and
throat JUBE on the market.
