

eWARMMKMCC
TENSION
curve!
99
wp*
// *
xjg^?gr?a¥
£&£sr
SOLD BY
LEADING MERCHANTS
and DISTRIBUTORS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
MADE IRONBHf:
NEWCASTLE STEEL.
IT IS CHEAPER TO BUY AND ERECT
“WARATAH” FENCE (Hinged Joint) THAN
THE ORDINARY WIRE AND DROPPER FENCE.
• , • )’ * ■ . ‘
\
THE “WARATAH” FENCE, with the “Hinged Joint,** is m? in three types:
Special Heavy Fence—Tyeasy High Tensile Fence— Standard Fence.
“Waratah” 5-line Sheep Fence, “Hinged Joint”; 5 lines—26in. high—pickets 12in. apart. Line wire
spacings, 9,8, 7, 6 inches. Three types. Packed in 5-chain rolls.
“Waratah” 6-line Sheep Fence, “Hinged Joint”; 6 lines—36in. high—pickets 12in. apart. Line wire
spacings, 9,8, 7, 6 inches. Three types. Packed in 5-chain rolls.
PRICES ON APPLICATION
Special Fences are also available for Cattle, Lambs and Pigs. All are fully described and illustrated in
the “Waratah” Fence Booklet. Write in for your copy.
Stocked by Leading Merchants and Distributors Throughout Australia.
RUST-PROOF STOCK-PROOF
FIRE-PROOF WEATHER-PROOF
Made' in Australia from B. H. RJVewcast/ejteeA
Manufactured by
RYLANDS BROS. (Aust.) Ltd.
Works: Newcastle, N.S.W.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Makers also of the following materials: “Waratah” Wire
Netting, “Waratah** Barbed Wire, and the stronger, famous
. “Waratah** B.H.P. Star Steel Posts.
asSSSS!
ihcb-jowt'fk Him
The Bulletin
4j(c&vo .
Vol. 52.—N0. 2690.
Wednesday, September 2, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OUR0 UR New Library Catalogue for 1931 ia
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
nus
Ik
This Book FREE to YOU!
.... SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. '
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing
advertised in. the Sydney Bulletin. j
My Name
Mit Address
S.B. 331
■\h:
KS&
i
isiiv;
5»N* *jf f
lies.
ms
THE BEST OF ALL REMEDIES FOR
COUGHS. COLDS SORE.THROATS ETC. $$
H§
tsss
'«
*>«»
Ss2
r.w
m
*£&&
AXK/V'
3?
p^£“
•~ v ■- ’ ' ■ " - •*•••*:-
Your best safeguard against colds,
and all affections of the throat, chest
and lungs, is Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes. This wonderful remedy
carries the endorsement of the medi-
cal profession and has been univer-
sally known for over 40 years.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.)
Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
“THE AGE”
’ Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every ' legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA,
THE LAND OF
PRIMARY PRODUCTION
OUR WHEAT MARKET.
Splendid Record of Progress.
The man on the land has not been asleep
during the last ten year's, as figures relating
to wheatgrowing reveal. An increase of
41,000,000 bushels this season compared With
10 years ago, shows that the primary producer
has done his share in developing the West.
Acreage. Bushels.
1,275,675 12,248,080
2,112,032 20,471,177
2,571,187 ' 31,068,600
2.998.523 36,370,219
3,343,530 33,790,040
3,568,225 39,081,183
3.956.524 52,891,492
1921
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
THE PERTH
IS THE FARMER’S FRIEND.
REACH THE MAN ON THE LAND
BY ADVERTISING IN THE
LEADING WEEKLY NEWSPAPER.
Ok mercury
•—by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by, reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F, L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Che new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute"
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
Sv
*
v
ss
4 ‘The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Rank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
et Street, Sydney.
Mr.
Kern
Margar,
The Red Page
The War on Paper
When it was over we thought that, apart
from some sporadic re-taking of posts in
spilt beer, the war was dead and done with.
Brooke and, Grenfell had been brave about
it; Sassoon, who saw more and had time to
think it over, had slashed with something
more like a sabre than a rapier; Binyon,
nicely elegiac, had set a thousand poetasters
weeping variations of “They shall not grow
old as we who are left grow old”; Housman
had said the biggest poetic say of all in his
“Epitaph on an Army of Modern Mercen-
aries” :
These, in the day when heaven was falling,
The hour when earth’s foundations fled,
Followed their mercenary calling
And took their wages and are dead.
Their shoulders held the sky suspended ;
They stood, and earth’s foundations stay;
What God abandoned these defended,
And saved the sum of things for pay.
There was more or less of a lull after the
war, which Barbusse’s fine Under Fire and
Philip Macdonald’s excellent Patrol did not
greatly disturb. It was Remarque, with his
cutting realism and latrine meditations, who
really let the flood loose. Then scarcely any
but war-books were written. Storm of Steel,
War, Undertones of War, Good-bye to All
That, Farewell to Arms (a fine thing, stupidly
banned here), and, one of the best of ail
war books, if not the very best, The Case
of Sergeant Grischa, are a few that kept a
head above the torrent. So it has been
fought over, on paper. As a topic it is not
yet nearly exhausted. It has figured in
verse, fiction, memoirs and every other form
of word-painting. Yet it is still possible for
new books about it to he new books about it.
I have just read a batch of three; each is
written from a different point of view, and
each writer has something new to say.
Ludendorff’s Screech
The ex-German leader, in The Coming
War (Faber and Faber; Roycroft; 10s. 9d.),
concerns himself with the 1914 upheaval as
a warning of more to come. He will be
dismissed at once as a mere militarist by
all who think peace is here to stay, and who
cannot hear a fear to the contrary without
wanting to fight the speaker. An amusing
thing about these is their belief that their
stand is something courageous. Their
writers, cartoonists and other spearheads
are brave souls, pitting themselves agarnst
malicious forces. The truth is that they are
soft echoes of popular opinion, and there
never was anything very courageous about
that. The great force against which they
are supposed to be fighting is a handful of
observers not sufficiently confident in
human nature to believe that war is impos-
sible. War as a popular commodity is very
dead indeed, for the time being. How long
it will remain so is to most a matter of
sheer guesswork. Not to Ludendorff. He
knows even the year of the coming out-
break; the specific acts of frightfu'ness that
will ensue; the victors, the victims, and
much other amazing lore. He screeches. It
is hard to escape the conviction that he is
a wild crank, if not a mild lunatic. Ger-
many in the last war was a poor victim out-
raged by calculating and ruthless foes. On
her soil the next war will be fought. She
is being kept defenceless deliberately. The
Powers to be involved are what Ludendorff
three systems based on force”:
(1) The Grand Orient of France, the execu-
tive of the inner Jewish circle; (2) the
General of the Jesuits and the Pope on
behalf of the Church of Rome; (3) Stalin
the head of the Third International— i.e.,
Pans, Rome and Moscow. Among these he
sees a struggle for supremacy that must
lead to another war, and soon.
lv>3!Ti>n™ l T enta l iV i e - S ° f theSe system s which are
f f ! lp " n fo , r . ce believe mankind to be so amenable
to indoctrination and so absorbed by its present
needs unlike the Jews, Jesuits and Freemasons at
° f the worl(1 ’ s history—that it cannot
await the disappearance of the generation they have
already done to death. They believe that the genera-
tion which witnessed the World War will once more
Snflw e „ them -r th S eh ' anllies and e ‘iable them to
inflict upon it another mortal wound Thev are
the imsuspiciousness of the masses as
regards their own intentions, the craving for
liberty and also the insurmountable ignorance of the
w Uh regard to military policy. Accordingly
witn t U y . thpy , are carrying out their plans
with such an impudent lack of concealment that
evil" aims Slmple ' milldeci could penetrate their
At the present moment they are pursuing the
obvious, but at the same time devilish, plan of
exploiting the agitation in favor of liberty that is
ffnoLuv ln Hung , a ' 7 ’ Austria and Germany, more
States t!f’r orde , l j. to induce these defenceless
States to form an alliance with Facist Italy ag-ainst
France, Yugo-Slavia and their allies &
The conclusion of this alliance is essential if the
war between Italy and France is to be fought out
on German soil. Italy
will never dare to send
its armies into South
Germany—and this is
the point—to fight the
French armies that
will advance into
South Germany unless
she can count on Ger-
man assistance.
His cry is for Germany to prepare. It
sounds like the cry of a fanatic; but at the
very least it is vigorous. Perhaps he should
not be held responsible for some of the odd
English in which it is made in this transla-
tion.
Another General
The American leader Pershing, in My
Experiences in the World War (Hodder and
Stoughton ; Dymocks; 325.6 d. net), also views
1914-18 in the light of a warning. He rends
American authority on its unpreparedness,
and sets down these experiences for its
future guidance. He emerges from the read-
ing a careful, conscientious, rather,ordinary
plodder, determined, and devoid of humor;
as dull as Foch, without Foch’s brittle brain.
He states that when America stepped in
there was a distinct cleavage between the
British and French. They were operating as
separate units, not co-operating as allies.
Neither, he asserts, wanted the Americans
as an army; each, and especially the French,
wanted to use America merely as a recruit-
ing-field. Even when the American Army
had at last been formed, Foch continued his
attempts to break it up and fit the pieces
into the French machine. As Pershing pre-
sents this interesting spectacle, each party
was like a bunch of schoolboys claiming the
big fellow for its side. He expresses the
opinion that. America should have stepped
in (“vigorously protested”) immediate’v
Belgian neutrality was violated. He declines
to swallow the excuse that America was not
a signatory to the shattered treaty. Even
had America been prepared to send 500 000
combat troops when it did decide to fight
the war would have been over a year earlier.
The few lighter touches in the book are
mostly unconscious. Two concern Kin o '
George. One, revealing the penetrating
Powers of furphies, is the King asking him
as soon as he reached England whether it
was true that America would soon have
50.000 aeroplanes in the field. (America
about this time had 55 aeroplanes, 51 of
which had been declared obsolete and the
other four obsolescent.) Later the King,
pointing to a statue of Queen Victoria, said
“with a solemn expression of profound
ind’enation, ‘The Kaiser has even tried to
destroy the staiue of his own' grandmother.’ ”
There is onl> one reference to Diggers in
the book. It, too, has a nice flavor of the
unconscious:—
The Australian sth Division, coming up at this
time, continued the attack with elements of the 30th
Division, and the line advanced a considerable
distance.
The fresh thing about the war that he has
to say is in his touching upon the conflict
among the Allies. He pulls curtains aside
frankly, and leaves a strong impression that
he is telling the truth.
A Novel of Separation
The war-literature torrent is now running
in several easily-defined streams. Luden-
dorff’s book and Pershing’s belong to the
machine stream; Two Prisoners, by Lajos
Zilahy (Heinemann; Bs. 6d. net), belongs to
the human. It is a study of two prisoners,
man and wife, separated by the war after a
passionate love and marriage; the 'man, a
Hungarian officer, going as prisoner of war
to Russia, to be held from natural life by
physical forces; the woman similarly he’d
by forces of her own mental making. Fol-
lows struggle not to forget each other, in
which both lose. Man and woman are each
finely portrayed; the struggle is actual, the
development inevitable. It is sterling fiction,
almost comparable with Grischa, which in
some respects it resembles.
RED PAGE.
Making Books Here
I have it from several good authorities
that, including exchange,, the cost to the
bookseller of importing books has leapt
from 11 per cent, to, in little more than
a year ; 75 per cent.
The effect on the trade has been as drastic
as it would seem obvious. The booksellers
assure me they are not making the profit
even on turnover that they used to make.
Nothing much in that. Most importers
could tell the same story. A difference is
that, whereas most other importers of small
articles can, perhaps, go in for cheaper lines,
the prices of books are as good as standard.
So the bookseller has no escape there. Why
he most gets it in the neck is because, even
contenting himself with a smaller profit,
he cannot sell his goods.
Arnold Bennett contended that all books
are too cheap. If an echo of the position in
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns’
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—
Natural to Anthony Horderns’.
ê
We pay
carriage on
these goods.
.S
r —'
cr
r
-V ,) ''M' T
W '"W*
N
Extra Quality in Working Trousers
Priced from 7/11 pair
Men’s Working Trousers, made in our
own workrooms. Cut in generous style,
that allows freedom of movement.
Cross or side and hip pockets. Extra
strongly sewn. Sizes available, 30 to
46 inch waists. State whether side or
cross pockets are required.
Strong Australian Cotton Tweeds.
Prices, per pair 7/11, 9/11
All-wool Australian Tweeds.
Price 10/6
Hard-wearing “Pinwire” Tweeds.
Price H/6
Plain Grey or Fawn “Thornproof’
Tweeds. Price 12/6
Our Famous “Lithgow” Tweeds.
All Wool. Price 13/11
Plain Grey “Whipcord” Tweed.
Price . 14/6
Fawn or Grey Riding Twists.
Price 15/6
Fireman’s Serge. All Wool, Indigo
Dye. Price 16/6
Fine Indigo Serge Trousers.
Prices ' 18/9, 25/-, 30/-
Saddletwists. In Greys, Fawns,
Olive or Drab.
Prices 23/6, 29/6, 35/-
Plain Grey Suiting Worsteds.
Prices 21/-, 30/-, 35/-
Durable Wearing Apparel
for Hard-working Men
Working apparel for hard, everyday wear. Made by Anthony
Horderns’ in their own workrooms, and guaranteed by them to give
the maximum of service. Note the values below, compare the qualities
and prices with any you know.
Reliable Work Shirts
Men’s Striped Harvard Work Shirts, with collar
and pocket attached. 6in. double back.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 5/3, 6/6
Striped Harvard, with 9in. double back, 9/-
Super quality, hard-wearing Bolton Drill Work Shirts, i
Navy Blue. Anthony Horderns’ Price
Dark
9/6
51 3
Khaki Drill Work Shirts
Khaki Drill Work Shirts, with collar and pocket
attached. Anthony Horderns’ Price .... 6/6
In a superior quality 8/6
6/6
Grey Work Shirts at
Grey Twist Harvard Work Shirts. Collar and
pocket attached.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 4/9
In a superior quality, stout weave.
Anthony Horderns’ Price
6/6
49
Flannel Undershirts
Men’s Flannel Undershirts, in shades of Natural
and Dark Grey. Anthony Horderns’ Price, 5/6
In Natural, Dark Grey and Cream.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 6/11
Super quality, Natural, Dark Grey, Cream and
Light Grey. Anthony Horderns’ Price 7/11
Men’s Athletic Flannel Undershirts, in Cream and Natural
shades. No sleeves. Anthony Horderns* Price ........ 6/6
5/6
Send for our Mail Order Catalogue
This 160-page catalogue has been compiled (or the benefit of
distant customers. Send for one to-day. Post free on request.
Great Values in Sports Wear Too!
BUY NOW FOR SPRING AND SUMMER’S SPORTING DAYS!
Tennis Shirts
White Tennis Shirts!
Finished with collar and
pocket attached. In
white mercerised twill.
Anthony Horderns’
Prices 5/3, 6/6
In a superior quality. Price .... 8/6
513
Sports Shirts
White Mercerised Sports
Shirts, with open sports
collar. Anthony
Horderns’ Price . . 7/6
Natural Fuji Silk Sports
Shirts. In a superior heavyweight
weave. Anthony Horderns’ Price, 16/6
716
We Pay Carriage.
Athletic
Undershirts
1/6
Men's Athletic Underwear, to wear
with the sports shirts. In a reliable
white cotton weave. Anthony Horderns’
Prices 1/6* 1/®
In heavyweight white cotton. Price, 2/3
Men’s Cream Wool and Cotton Athletic
Undershirts. Lightweight.
Sizes, ins. 34 36 38 40 42 44
Prices .. 5/- 5/3 5/6 6/* 6/6 7/3
Men’s Cream All-wool Athletic Under-
shirts. Lightweight. “Jumbuk” make.
Sizes, ins. 34 36 38 40 42 44
Prices . . 5/- 5/3 5/9 6/3 6/9 7/6
Use Our D.P.S.
(Deposit Purchase System)
ë
Stylish Sports Trousers
Men’s Sports Trousers, Latest cut, side and hip
pockets, cuffed bottoms, belt loops, hip straps; buttons
inside.
All-wool Flannels. In Greys, Sand, Fawn, Heather,
etc. Prices, pair 11/9, 14/6, 17/6
1119
All-wool Flannels. In Mid. and Light Greys. Prices, pair, 14/6, 16/6
All-wool Flannels. In fancy stripes, the very latest.
Prices, pair 14/6, 16/6, J®/®
Cream Cotton Gabardine. Prices, pair 15/-, 16/6
Cream Woollen Gabardines. Prices, pair . . 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 42/-
•Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
ē


A
\t
%
%
Mi
s*>
6^
FO»
T
ifeg
jL
X
e
A good game of Bridge.
Then delicious sandwiches
and savouries made with
Rex Salmonelle
Rex Luncheon Cheese
Kex Ham Pate
Pvex Veal and Tongue
Australian Products by Foggitt Jones Pty. Ltd.
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon and Packers of delicious REX Canned Delicacies
REX DEVILLED HAM SALAD.
1 tin Rex Devilled Ham which has been kept on ice
unti chilled, 1 firm head of lettuce, 1 hard-boiled egg,
capers, and a few slices of beetroot for garnishing, little
mayonnaise dressing. Wash and dry lettuce well, and
pull leaves m small pieces with fingers, reserving some
of the crisp heart leaves for serving. Cut Devilled
am into cubes, mix w r ith the “pulled lettuce,” and just
moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Pile individual serv-
ings on crisp lettuce leaves, put small spoonful of mayon-
naise on top and decorate with a small slice of beetroot
and quarter of hard-boiled egg. A touch of parsley may
also be added instead of capers.
REX SANDWICH.
Spread slices of wholemeal or white bread with butter.
On 1 slice spread Rex Veal and Tongue Pate, and cower
with another .slice of buttered bread. On top of this
slice spread a little more butter, then spread again with
Rex Ham Pate. Cut into fingers or triangles and
p ace a piece of tomato and some chopped pickles on top.
Place on lettuce leaves and serve with potato or any
other salad.
REX CANAPE.
Place 2 or 3 thin slices of Rex-Pye on a plate,
cover with two crisp lettuce leaves, and on these place
a thin siiee of pineapple, then a thick slice of tomato
which has been sprinkled with salt, pepper and a pinch
of sugar. On top placd half a hard-boiled egg cut length-
wise, and coat with a good spoonful of thick mayonnaise
dressing. Garnish with parsley. This is the quantity
tor an individual serving.
REX-PYE IN POTATO^ BORDER WITH SPANISH
Cut up lib. Rex-Pye into pieces about 11 inches
long and i inch wide and put into 1 pint of Spanish
Sauce, and cook gently until thoroughly hot. Serve
inside a border of mashed potato to which has been
h C °°^ ed ’ onion and 1 dessertspoonful
SaiTtir y ' e uttcr ana miik '
_ Spanish Sauce: Dissolve 1 dessertspoonful clarified
! D i? an ’ add 1 finely-chopped onion and cook it
until nicely bi owned Add 1 good dessertspoonful of flour
and mix well. Pour in 1* cupfuls water, stir until it boils
“! d . al 1 t 0 cook S e ntly until onion is quite tender (about
10 to 15 minutes). Add 1 dessertspoonful of sugar 1 tea
spoonful of Worcester Sauce, 1 teaspoonful vinegar and
teaspoonfuls of tomato sauce, and salt and pepper to taste.
New
Savouries
The following savouries and other recipes
are by Isa M. Wylie, well-known Cookery
Instructress. They have been tested at
public demonstrations and found delicious.
■Me®
J '
SALMONELLE BISCUITS.
2oz. flour, 1 dessertspoonful butter, pepper and
salt to taste, 1 heaped teaspoonful of Rex Salmonelle,
1 tablespoonful milk, 1 yolk of egg, little pink color-
ing. Sift dry ingredients into a basin, add butter
and work together with tips of fingers. Mix egg,
milk, Salmonelle and coloring together and pour
into the flour, reserving a little for glazing. Work
into a dough, turn on to a floured board, knead
slightly until smooth, roll out about thick,
cut out with small round cutter, glaze with
remainder of the Salmonelle mixture and bake in
hot oven 10 to 15 minutes. When cold, decorate
with a little whipped cream, and place a tiny piece
of Salmonelle on top with a touch of beetroot and
tiny piece of parsley.
SALMONELLE ECLAIRS.
Take 2 tablespoonfuls of thick white sauce, mix
with it 1 heaped teaspoonful Rex Salmonelle, white
of 1 hard-boiled egg, finely chopped, 1 teaspoonful
of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and
1 olive finely chopped. Put 1 teaspoonful of the
mixture into each small eclair and serve hot, gar-
nished with parsley or sprays of chillies. The
eclairs are made from the unsweetened cream, puff
pastry and made much smaller and are baked
slowly until crisp.
SALMONELLE CREAM WITH CUCUMBER.
1 dessertspoonful butter, 1 heaped dessertspoonful
Rex Salmonelle, 2 thick slices cucumber, pepper and
salt to taste, some small rounds bread, the same
number of tomato slices ,and thin cucumber slices.
Cut the thick slices of cucumber into small dice,
add to the butter and Salmonelle, which have been
beaten to a cream. Flavor with salt and pepper;
arrange rounds of bread on a plate, place on each
a slice of tomato which has been sprinkled with
salt, pepper and a pinch of sugar. Put a thin slice
of cucumber on the tomato and pile the Salmonelle
cream on top. Decorate with a small piece of red
capsicum and parsley, and serve each on a nas-
turtium-leaf or lettuce-leaf.
SALMONELLE AND HORSERADISH SAVORY.
Mix 1 teaspoonful of grated horseradish with 1
dessertspoonful of butter, add salt to" taste and
spread on hot toast. Spread thickly with Rex
. almonelle, and pile on top some chopped hard-
boiled egg which has been mixed to a paste with
butter and seasoned with salt, pepper, and a pinch
of curry powder,
SALMONELLE CRACKERS.
Spread small cracker biscuits with butter, then
spread generously with Rex Salmonelle. On some
of the crackers place a slice of hard-boiled egg, and
oil the remainder place a piece of tomato. Top
villi a small quantity of thick mayonnaise-dressing
and put a few capers on top of each.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE PUFFS.
Mix together soft, white breadcrumbs
(about 9 good tablespoonfuls), 4oz. Rex Luncheon
Cheese which has been slightly softened with des-
sertspoonful milk, 2oz. butter, cayenne pepper aud
salt to taste. Bind this mixture with 2 well-beaten
eggs, and shape into balls about the size of a
walnut, dip into beaten egg and breadcrumbs, aud
fry golden-brown in plenty of smoking fat. Drain
well, garnish with parsley and serve very hot.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE TOAST.
I>oil _ eggs hard, mash well with enough cream
to make them into a paste, add pepper and salt to
taste and mix in a tablespoonful of Rex Luncheon
Cheese. Toast 2 large slices of bread, cut off
crust and butter it, and spread thinly with Rex
Anchovy paste. Cut into fingers and pile cheese and
. egg mixture on it, sprinkle with breadcrumbs,
place a tiny piece of butter on top, make very hot
in the oven, and serve at once.
REX SAVORY BISCUITS.
1 heaped teaspoonful Rex Luncheon Cheese, 1
dessertspoonful cream, little pepper and salt, and
just enough Worcester sauce and tomato-sauce to
suit taste, 1 teaspoonful finely-chopped celery. Beat
all together until creamy, spread on buttered
crackers or on hot fingers of toast. Decorate each
biscuit with piece of white pickled-onion, 2 or 3
capers and a touch of tomato. Dish on a plate
with celery-leaf or parsley garnish.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE FINGERS.
1 dessertspoonful Rex Luncheon Cheese mixed
with 1 teaspoonful butter; pinch of salt, tea-
spoonful curry-powder, j teaspoonful mustard.
Butter some hot toast, spread thinly w T ith tomato-
sauce, cut into fingers and spread with the cheesp
mixture. Garnish with hard-boiled yolk of egg and
chopped parsley in alternate strips across the ends
of the fingers. *


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4; Sex at.
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring
Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10 ; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the Young,
by Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/- ; The Sex Factor m
Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3 ; Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene, by Howard, 7/- ; Hygiene of
Marriage, by Isabel Mutton, 5/-; Practical Birth Control, by Hornibrook, 5/-; Exercises for
Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4; The Culture of the Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; The Doctor
at Home, by Geo. Black, M.D., 8/-; Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake, 5/4; Cocktails and How
to Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust,, by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Letter
Writer 3/4- Contract Bridge for Iris, 3/9; Foulsham’s Best 100 Recitations for Boys and
Girls, 3/4; Ten Best Card Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6; Cards for Three, by Basil
Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date’’), 2/1; Popular Card
Games and How to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by 11. G. Souter, 1/5;
Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4 ; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4 ; Table
Rapping, 2/6; Practical Palmistry (Illust.), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3 ; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Hand
Reading Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin. 4/-; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6;
Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; Teaching Iris Auction Bridge, 3/9;
The New Ford, by E. T. Brown, 4/3 ; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2 ; The Companion Letter Writer,
2/8’ Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/9; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/9; Practical Joineiy,
by W. L. Savage, 1/-; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/2;
Pruning, 3/10; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; Consult Me, 4/7;
Every Man His Own Mechanic, 9/2 ; What to Draw and How to Draw It, 4/10 ; Poultry Farming
in N.S.W., by James Hadlington, 4/5; Owner Drivers’ Handbook, by Edward T. Brown, 5/5;
Gardeners and Growers’ Guide.
EVERY GARDENER and grower of flowers, fruit and vegetables for home
or market is offered great help to success in AUDEL.S GARDENERS
AND GROWERS’ GUIDES—Just Out! A complete library of proven
answers, plans, hints, discoveries, secrets, short-cuts. A reliable reference;
complete gardener’s educator. Beautifully illustrated and bound; 1700
pages, 4 vols.
PRICE 40/-, post free.
Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; /Vust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-;
How to Drive a Car, 4/1 ; Double-bed Dialogues, 1/2 ; Modem Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose,
61- • Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 21/-; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book
and’Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/1; Gypsy Queen Dream Book, 4/1 ; The
Ano-ora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Bell’s Acrostic Dictionary for Crossword Puzzles, 5/5 ;
Nuttall’s Standard Dictionary, 12/6; Dictionary of Quotations (Wood), 15/-; Games of Patience
series 1 to 5, 2/6; Profit and Discount Tables (Ody Rooks), 9/8: Universal Trade Reckoner,
4/3; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Sex and Disease (Storer)
—every young’ man should have this book, 7/9; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by lon
Idriess, 5/6; Housepainting, Decorating and Papevhanging, the best book on color mixing and
painting methods published, 13/9; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; All About
Photography, 4/1; Enquire Within Upon Everything, 4/4; The Wrinkle Book, How to Keep
Looking Young, by Elinor Glyn, 2/6; Australian Squab Culture, 1/6; Marks’ Timber Ready
Reckoner. 2/2; Long’s Book of the Pig—Special Price —7/6; Storage Batteries Simplified, Page
—Special Price —6/-; Motor Cycling, by Wyatt —Special Price —2/-; Automobile and Radio
Batteries, by Cross, 5/3 ; Evening News Book of Gardening, 2/8 ; Pruning, by Dept, of Agriculture,
3/3; Proverbs and Maxims, 1/8; A to Z of Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rutnsey, 2/2; Wisden-s
Cricketers’ Almanac for 1931, 9/2; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 1/9; Diesel Engine, by
j ones —Special Price—ls/-; Crvstal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3 ; Contract Bridge Blue Book,
by Culbertson, 8/4; 1001 Riddles, New and Old, 2/2 ; Impromptu Conjuring. 3/3 ; Everybody’s
Pocket Encyclopaedia, 1/8; Hypnotism Made Practical, by J. Louis Orton, 3/11; Nervous Break-
downs —How to Avoid Them, 4/-.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
WRITE FOR LISTS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Australia can reach him now lie might be
happy —theoretically, not practically, as an
author. For readers simply will not rise to
the violent charges which duties and taxes,
plus exchange, necessitate. Williamson’s
1 Dream of Fair Women, just an ordinary
novel, published in London at 7s. 6d., has
to be sold here at 13s. 6d. On top of that
I lie country purchaser has to pay postage
rates that make the sending away of book
parcels a luxury for the rich. And so the
trade stands stagnant.
Our Customs charges, I understand, are
not designed to produce revenue. The
object, or at any rate the excuse, is to
m-otect and encourage the development of
our secondary industries. It would be merely
foolish to say that, .in regard to books,
they are not achieving that apparently laud-
able result. It will be .time *to complain
10 years hence. A question for-the. present
is whether or not-there is prospect of that '
complaint haying eventually to be made. Is
such wholesale book publishing as alone would
warrant such'a barrier likely to come about
in 10, 20 mr eyen 40 vyears? I think not.
For one thing, our population is. too small,
and we are bent'upon* keeping it so. The
population policy of those who put on these
charges is that- Australia . has more than
enough people, already. But allowing for a
past rate of increase to continue,'there would
still not be enough people in Australia 40
years hence to make payable the general
publication of books in Australia. Books,
unlike stockings, jam, motor-cars and such
commodities, are individualistic. For each
there is a limited demand,
ranging from a few score copies for all Aus-
tralia of superb poetry like Humbert Wolfe’s
Uncelestial City or Snow, to a few thousands
of best-sellers like Sabatini or Wodehouse.
The Australian book publisher can. with
little risk, undertake .simultaneous issue
of the best-sellers, and this is done. He
knows from experience that he can fairly
safely count on a specific sale. In this
way the import charges encourage publish-
ing of the honest, reliable fiction that liead-
in-a-bag readers and such-like morons will
buy. The things he cannot risk are new
authors and literature. It is ridiculous to
argue that he can risk them in America,
where there is, and has been for a long time,
a population sufficient to support general
publishing. The outcome is that lie pub-
lishes only a restricted class of home-made
work and a few best-sellers in the fiction
line.
Fine editions are, of course, out of the
question. There is no Australian press that
could do the Nonesuch work if it wanted
to, but then that show is a freak, perhaps
the finest press of all time. Australian
presses have done good work. I have
several beautiful Angus and Robertson
books, and many of The BuLLETiN-pub-
lished books, including that delightful bit
of bookmaking A Southern Garland, are
ornaments for any shelf. But the making
of good books here went out of date some
time ago. Patently because it didn’t pay.
Really superfine books never have been
made here, and any living person who will
still be taking the air when they profitably
can be made here will be doubly lucky.
But the Customs barrier, sales taxes and
the like stand indiscriminately against the
trash that might profitably be turned out
here and the books that cannot be profit-
ably turned out without a world market
My conclusion is that it is not a protective
measure at all, but a naked grasp after
revenue. This has curious support in the
fact that the charges fall on books not-
imported but sent to' Australia for review.
Nothing could be more palpably an evid-
ence that revenue, not protection, is the
object of the charges.
CECIL MANN.
Our Belated Economists
One of the most curious phenomena of
the financial debacle in this country is the
way in which our academic economists have
been deluging the bookshops and shivering
the ether with precepts and panaceas. For
several years thoughtful men had been pro-
phesying in The Bulletin and elsewhere
that an avalanche of lOU’s was certain to
slip down on Australia from the mountain
of debt that our post-war politicians were
piling up. During this period the pre-
ceptors of the science of national economy
attached to our universities were as silent
as deep-sea squid, whereas concerted criti-
cism of the prolonged policy of squander,
falling upon public opinion from Such high
places, might have produced some restraint.
Now that the horse has pushed down the
makeshift sliprails and broken his neck
in a neighboring gully, the specialists in
economic carpentry rush forth armed with
bundles of statistics and axioms for the
building of a solid gate, in case the nag
should revive and get back into the pad-
dock, preparatory to another suicidal out-
break.
The shelves and tables of every bookshop
in Sydney and Melbourne are groaning
under the weight of this post-mortem furor
scribendi, and the night air quivers under
heavily-charged waves of radiated economic
salvos. Perhaps some consolation is to
be found in the fact that other professions,
ostensibly connected with the public welfare,
offer no analogies, otherwise we might be
invited to buy such works as “How to
Avoid Getting the Bubonic Plague a Second
Time,” or “A Treatise on Second Offences
and Their Avoidance,” or even “Every Man
His Own Undertaker.”
FREDERICK. AARONS.
Magazine Dumping
Isn’t it about time action was taken to
stop the dumping in Australia of trashy
American magazines specialising in such
subjects as free love, wild west and racket-
eering? The last-mentioned subject is
fairly booming just now; a shoal of rags
devoted to it have made their appearance
on our bookstalls. Although 25 cents in the
United States, most of this Gangland
garbage is offered here at from fourpence
to sixpence a copy. A few titles: “Gang-
land Stories,” “Racketeer Stories,” “Gang-
ster Stories,” “Prison Stories”! The leading
characters who stalk through their pages,
with “rods” in their pockets, are mostly
dare-devil heroes. Readers are introduced
to everything demoralising that obtains in
the American underworld—racketeering,
booze, dope, harlots and so on. It is
the gentle pap on which our youngsters of
the most imitative and impressionable age
are being fed, while our absurd censorship
bans literature.
PILA.
A Satchel of Books
Eleanor E. Helme’s After the Ball (Hurst
and Blackett; 7s. 6d. net) is a cheery,
rather breathless account of women’s golf in
Britain during the past 20 years. Like this
about, the great match in which Miss
Wethered beat the American Miss Collett: —
Who eared a hoot for all that rubbish about fives
being enough ? Fours were hardly good enough.
There really appeared some justification for the
remark of a spectator, “It’s the men’s championship
she should be playin’ in, no’ the wummen’s at a’.”
There are over a hundred amusing littie
drawings by Charles Ambrose.
In House with the Magnolias (H'eine-
mann, 7s. 6d. net) Ralph Arnold reveals the
characters of three young people in three
separate “Stories,” and only allows them to
be brought together by one of Fate’s sense-
less tricks at the end. The style, like the
form, is unusual, and all the people in the
book are clearly seen. Leo Pirmian’s de-
velopment from his preparatory school-days
to his futile manhood is exhaustively, but
never tediously, done. Humor is the keynote
of all the “stories,” and the effect is to make
the final tragedy more startling and poignant.
Cecily Hamilton, in Modern Germanics
(Dent; 7s. 6d. net), covers a field ranging
from the cult of the nude to the growth of
Hitlerism. Here is one of her glimpses:—
You meet parties of imps—little creatures who, as
yet, should know nothing- about politics—trudging
into the woods, in crocodile formation, with the
Red Flag marching at their head. If it were just
a red flag, just a badge, it would not matter ; but
the partisan training of these children’s groups
appears, as is the German way, to be thorough,
and the process has now been long enough at work
for its effects to make themselves felt in the coun -
try at large. There is growing to manhood a race
of eager partisans of whose existence outside Europe
has lately become aware and whose activities the
more peaceable section of the nation regards with
some apprehension.
A navy “sufficiently formidable to give
grounds for uneasiness” and the volunteer
armies are among the most important things
mentioned in the summing up.
And a Little Verse
MONEY MARRIAGE.
Dance, Shilling,, dance and dance!
Then kiss your winsome wife
Into such silver life
This pocket-house perchance
Next quarter-day shall ring
With voices light, not rude,
Qf a profitable brood
To me and to our King.
N.S.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.
"gh-o-s-f."
What a terrible word! Why, your hair
stands on end
Just to see it set down, whether printed or
penned.
Prom -the top of the h to the tail of the g
Is a line .of pure horror, blood-curdling to
see.
The thing is so haggard and staring and tall,
And the s seems to whisper of coffin and
pall; .
And the hollow old, hoary old, glaring old o
Stands as a symbol of panic and woe.
No subject for mocking or teasing or chaff. ..
But as for a g-o-a-s-t or a g-o-s-t—why, I’d
laugh!
MAORILAND.
ABNOLD WALE.
YOUR IMAGE.
Where shall I go? How shall I keep the
years
That in their weary round of empty hours
Have none that I can ever share with you?
All places that we once together knew
Desert and unrefreshed by fruitless tears,
Barren of corn and flowers!
Where shall I go, finding reflection nought
Of you in hearth or meadow, hall or hill V
Only in the slow movements of my thought
I meet your image still.
But even thoughts that I would keep serene
As a pure mirror, onward flow and change;
So a swift, smoothly-sliding river
Reflects an instant scene,
A fleeting moment and a little range
Of sky or wood, and then flows past for ever.
So I must travel: and dark currents break
The blue reflection of a summer’s day.
Wild eddies and sharp rocks! How shall
I take
Your placid image with me all the way
Through foreign landscapes, under storm and
shade?
No; you must even from my memory fade.
Though where you shone most brightly you
must fade.
And yield what is, still undisputed, thine,
Still I. your votary who was, dismayed
Shall pause and weep before the emptied
shrine.
And if they ask what face I picture there,
What lips and eyes, what bosom and what
brow,
I can but whisper of an ancient vow
And say that she was fair.
LONDON.
D. P. MCGUIRE.
Answers to Correspondents.
Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped, Jiame
and address 1 must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.T.W., J.E.8., R.0.M.: Dropped on the
third reading.... George G.: The fore-part is beaten
out too thin Frank R.: Glad to get your view;
but space only for the bare bones of it T.H.R.:
Not enough beauty of line to carry “Desire.”
D.L.: “Mick Dooley’s Pants” is by G. Essex
Evans and appears in “ ‘The Bulletin’ Reciter”....
T.W.M.: Beyond your ability ... .F.J.C.; Make them
brief and brisk and take more care... .L.S.: Despised
remittance man ; heroic rescue of tormentor’s child ;
return to popular favor —a collection of battered
props. .. .D.A.L.: No, thanks; our dungeon’s well
stocked with similar corpses... .S.M.: Too closely
related to a well-known James Edmond boarding-
house yarn. ... J.8.C.: No English castl# ghosts,
please R.S.F.: Good material ruined. Aim at
the simplest form of expression... .P.F.D.: Rejected
with thoughts better left unprinted.... Bellerive:
What!—that wasn’t the end of the Tasmanian
serial ? All right. Away it goetli again:—
KANGAROO VALLEY.
Many changes occur
As the years come and go.
At Kangaroo Valley
Where the choice fruit grow.
Lady Franklin’s Museum
Of the days of yore,
In my time was used
For an apple store.
C.T.A.: Over-long and ponderous.... W.J.M.:
No corners for rhapsodies over pet canaries... .N.R.:
Too much sadness in the world without the under-
taker’s jilted daughter... .C.D.; Youthful burbling.
But most of us pass through that stage... .R.A.: it
cost us 4d.; and we could ha’ done better wi’ the
money ... .W.W.P.: Evoked only lukewarm interest.
. ...T.J.: Not bad, but pi eachy.... The Drifter: No
kick in it... .Pat: “Australia’s Ann” is like her purse,
a trifle bare.... W. J.W.: “Maybe on astral plains
afar, remote by Time and distance, the things in
evidence on earth are likewise in existence.” And
you speak of novelty !... .R.M.: Pretty; but it goes
nowhere... .E.PI.S.: What makes you think that’s a
sonnet?... .A.W.8.: “Nuff Said” is the better, but
both show a long road ahead... .Q.T.: Liked “Pre-
lude” a little; the others not at a 11... .Surdioni-
busque: No good. .. . Plurry Dinkum: Apart from a
good last line, plurry little. .. .J.S.J. : “In Dispute”
begins: “Standing at gaze, the aromatic sea smells
intermingling with the fragrant earthy odor of
early May’s harbingers of a successful rural season,”
etc. Dispute over... .A.McN.: Don’t care for verse
that is irregular merely because it is easier to write
that way... .Belifante : Last line ruins it. .. .1.M.8.:
Not for this market... .N.S.: Someone else might find
a nook for it... .Tom Pepper: “To a Mosquito” served
only as a warning that summer poetry will soon be
in f100d... .C.G.A.: “Spirit of My Love” was so
mbist it nearly put out the fire. .. .D.H.: Treatment
could be better A.J.H.: Not much of a market
for moralising... .W.L.: Excellent stuff in it,, but
don’t care for the theme... .L.R.W.: Fair enough in
places, but the general content is slight—.J.D.H.:
Good straight description, but poetry gets past that.
. ...G.S.: Treatment, or lack of it, spoils a fair
Idea... .Reedy : Grim as a ghoul’s grave... .D.H.W.:
Prettily enough done, but diffuse. A sonnet is the
last thing to stand that L.J.Q.: Afraid the
optimism verse would only depress them more.. ..
The Victim: Baulked at “The Last Fence”....
J.D.S.: Appeal is all too limited Esau: Too
long getting to what it has to say 0.K.: Misses
the probable excitement of the original. ... R.K.G.:
Delicate little thing, but too. slight for here....
A.C.: Even “A Wineglass” cannot afford to be that
fragile. .. .A.G.: To hand, idea, undeveloped
C.V.D.: “When you come Down to Bathe” you
don’t plunge far enough in.... G.: On a certain
politician :
Although to depths of cruelty I never did aspire,
I’d like to saw the blankard’s throat with jagged
piano-wire;
I’d drive ten ton steam-rollers ’cross his abdomen
with zest,
And dance with red-hot running shoes upon his hairy
chest.
B.W.M.T.: Gleams of promise, but it flops too
often K.L.: Glad to give it a second reading if
reduced to cur space limit. .. .E.J.: The person who
can almost converse in quotations from the poets
must be a genius to escape being a bore, and then-
are three of them in your tale! R.T.8.: Mawkish.
C.C.: Doubt whether it would burn T.8.E.:
Queer, but almost half of recent first attempts tell
how the man from the bush reforms his youthful
sweetheart turned street angel A. 8.: AH before
the sixth page is unnecessary. .. .W.S.: Miles off the
track that leadeth to the cash-box 0.H.N.: We
were hoping that no one would arouse that d0g....
F.C.: Not for us R.M.P.: The writer wakes up
and discovers that he has been dreaming—now that’s
a bright idea J.W.11.: Can’t make the shotgun
wedding-plot new by making it a boomerang
wedding M.D.: Ah, if it were only half as perfect
as your copperplate fist!... .A.McD.: Well written ;
but too frail V.G.D.: Another of them. Pity,
because it’s a very bright bit of work Ray Jack-
man : Hopeless for The B.; afraid not much chance
anywhere S.Q.G.: You’ll find markets very scarce
until you get down off those high verbal stilts.
Nobody ever really talked like that.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORK EsPON DENTS.
A.S.K.: Mournful as a inopoke’s croak J-P-:
Even a pair of scales baffles you D. 8.: Were
they drawn from mud models? 1.P.: Fair, but
that’s not enough... .N.R.: Heaved out for a stagger-
ing list of reasons A.W.8.: Too many indefinite
scratches L.R.H.: Stiff M.C.R.: You put lines
down as if you were marking a tennis court....
A.W.: Lady would look better with legs of equal
dimensions.... H. A. .1.: Hopeless array of niggling
lines D.M.: It might find a buyer—but not here.
... .R.H.: No use for female skeletons bewailing
husbands’ liking for liquor..:.C.J.: That conversa-
tion, if printed, might get us six months T.R.:
Chess joke a bit too technical D.P.: Considerable
improvement; keep 0n....K.8.: Spring madness?
Yes, it often takes that form T.E.L.: Young Ike’s
grief moved us not V.E.8.: Pretty good idea
ruined J.A.C.: You can’t catch us with that old
farmyard pun....H.J.: Have no spare corners in
which we could tuck it away.... M.W.: How could
he help falling with legs like those? C.K.: Let
a few more years roll by H.D.: They’re beginning
to look more like human beings... .M.S.: Thank
heavens we haven’t to ride behind the horses you
harness up !. .. .L.P.: Dates back to Chaucer. —J.L.:
Discard that spluttering nib.... A.C.: Decorative, but
humorless.


è
é
mm
W&i
/ '
v
t'
mm j
.
'■gj—T , ~ %.*’ 1
W-it" *V. i
;
;:• j
■ !
:
ssiliSi!
dfr-vl
i
■' .*
I
0
ittf:
-?
M
m
■
m
ill
m
m
■I
m
§■ll
jJiou/dknow ~ and<7do /


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2690.
September 2, 1931.
THE FAVORITE FALLS DOWN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21.) George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, 1V.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly. 12 months, £1 J)s.j 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 5d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
IS DEMOCRACY DOOMED?
The American gentleman who, paraphrasing
Webster, defined democracy as government
of the people by the people for the people
made a rough job of it. He included in
the one phrase an end and a means to the
end; and though an end may be eternally
right, the best means to it may and probably
will vary with time and circumstance. The
human factor has nothing to do with the
object; it has everything to do with the
means by which the object is to be attained.
Thus, whether government by the people
is the best means depends entirely upon the
knowledge and honesty and activity of the
people. It is possible to conceive of a
nation composed of some who are highly
intelligent and educated and others who are
profoundly dull and ignorant—the Russia of
a few years ago, for example; probably even
the Russia of to-day. If democratic govern-
ment requires that those who are incapable
of good government should govern them-
selves and others, then democratic gov-
ernment must stand condemned. But if it
is admitted that the end is greater than the
means, and that the means must be
fashioned to the end, then we shall have to
require that those who do the governing
shall show qualifications for the job.
If the end must justify the means, then it
can be safely said that the means in this
case stand unjustified. For how can it
be claimed that we have had “government
for the people” when it has worked out
in such a way as to throw one-third of
all our people idle and reduce most of our
essential farming population to penury? If
the end must justify the means, then the
means we have adopted, our machinery of
government, must be admitted a complete,
even grotesque, failure.
What is wrong with it in particular—
where especially has it broken down?
Almost always in the past political power
was divided into two groups, each group
fighting for control. Then we found each
group trying to strengthen itself by enfran-
chising some other section of the people in
the hope that its vote would go to the party
which had done the enfranchising. Where,
as in Australia, there were no more left to
enfranchise, other means of bribery had to
be sought; and the policy of State owner-
ship and control, with its huge borrowing
and its vast spending, opened an easy way.
In N. S. Wales a few months ago we saw
almost the entire strength of the insanely-
bloated public-service vote thrown into the
scale on behalf of Mr. Lang, who had made
certain promises; to-day in Queensland we
hear loud threats from the public service
against the Moore Government because it
has called upon the service to make certain
sacrifices. Until a few years ago the
anomalous position of the public-service
voter was more or less recognised; and
various persons in the public’s pay—the
police among them—were debarred from
voting. But the false idea that the vote
was an end and not a means to an end
was used as an excuse for gradually en-
franchising everybody—in the hope, as we
have seen, that when election-time came
around the newly enfranchised would not
forget that Codlin was the friend, not Short.
But even the vast power of job-giving
which the State possesses under a policy of
State ownership was not sufficient for the
politicians. They, therefore, developed a
new field of political activity; and here
activity is merely a polite way of saying
bi’ibery. The right of political interference
in all relations between employer and em-
ployee was asserted. At first this took
the form of protecting the weak against the
tyranny of the unscrupulous employer; from
that it gradually spread until the politician
had more or less to do, or couM claim to
have more or less to do, with fixing every *
wage and every man’s hours of labor. No
more direct process of corruption was ever
invented than this political power over
wages and working conditions; and to-day
it is possible to have Ministers in office
who know well that economic conditions
demand a general reduction of wages terri-
fied to openly do a thing to bring it about
lest they should be punished by having the
best jobs they ever had or ever can hope to
have taken from them.
From this we may perhaps get a sugges-
tion of what is wrong with this democracy
of ours. It has been* corrupted: it is being
used not for the good of the people but
for the benefit of individuals and groups.
It does not matter that high wages for, say,
the sausage-smith are claimed to be a good
thing for the community. They may be:
what really matters is that high wages for
the sausage-smith are held by the sausage-
smith to be more important than anything
else. His vote is no longer cast, then, in the
interests of the country: it goes to the
highest bidder. That political party which
will promise the sausage-smith most wages
and easiest hours gets the sausage-smith’s
support.
Yet the sausage-smith probably desires to
be a thoroughly good citizen; and it is
quite possible that he is a very intelligent
citizen. He is, however, barred from using
any of his intelligence; so he passes over
his vote to the bosses of his party. If they
say Jones, he will vote Jones. Of Jones
himself he knows nothing— except that he
will vote right. Jones’s job so far as the
sausage-smith is concerned is to safeguard
sausage-smiths’ wages; and his appalling
ignorance about everything else is of no
consequence at all. A party of Joneses
results in the end in a leader named Lang,
as ignorant as they are, his only claim to
leadership over them being that he is a little
more cunning and can be more brutally
offensive.
And so we have the utter breakdown of
democracy; for if the unemployment of
one-third of the population does not mean
the breakdown of the system of govern-
ment, what does it mean?
The practical question is What shall be
done about it? Know’ing that the vote is
only a means to an end, and that the grant-
ing of the vote to everybody has produced
these most disastrous results, shall we go
back on our tracks and cut off the vote from
vast numbers who are not well-informed
enough, and who have not shown reasons
why we should trust them? Or shall we cut
dovvn the powers of Parliaments and of
politicians? It certainly is absurd to go
on as we are going and expect success.
There is no hope, it seems to The Bulle-
tin, for any system under which the Legis-
lature has control over wages and conditions
of industry. If democracy is to continue to
function, the electors must cease to regard
Parliament as a body which can put money
into their pockets for daily toil or take it out
of them. For the same reason the servants of
the State must cease to be represented by
members entitled to speak and vote on all
questions: their special representatives must
have no vote in any matter which affects
the State in its capacity of employer. All
this done we may have a chance to see
Parliament again a deliberative body, in-
stead of a body which is so greatly affected
by political bribery and corruption, and is
in nine cases out of ten the sort of Parlia-
ment one would expect such a Parliament
to be.
THE POSITION OF THE BANKS.
Last week the Primaiy Producers’ Bank
suspended payment. It was never one of
the associated banks, never one of the
twelve on whose figures the banking statistics
of Australia are built. There is therefore
little or no significance about the failure,
since its position was entirely different from
that of all the great banks. The P.P. was
a little venture which had the bad. luck
to staii; at the most inopportune of all
times, and to specialise in a line which of
all lines has lately offered the smallest
chances of success.
To the American the most astonishing
feature of the crisis through which we are
passing must be the total absence of any-
thing even approaching a loss of confidence
in our banks. Apart from the suspension
of the N. S. Wales Savings Bank, wholly
chargeable to the default of a Government,
and the failure of this small infant among
trading banks, there has been not only not
a single failure but not even a real sugges-
tion of likely failure. It is a remarkable
performance when we consider the financial
distresses of our Governments; when we
remember that they have just been driven
to appeal to their domestic bondholders to
accept a 224 p.c. reduction of interest;
when we count up the army of our unem-
ployed and the burden of our dole and
other taxation. Yet the explanation is not
hard to come by. It lies in the manner in
which the banks of Australia kept their
heads during those years when the politi-
cians of Australia lost theirs so completely.
Going back to the first ending of a finan-
cial year after the war, and comparing the
public debt at that date and at June, 1930,
we get these results:—
June 30, 1919. June 30, 1930.
State . . . . £396,356,149 £727,639,836
Commonwealth . . 325,770,747 372,957,362
Total ..£722,126,896 £1,100,597,198
Thus during these brief 11 years the poli-
ticians of Australia loaded this unfortu-
nate country with an additional debt of
over 378 millions, of which no less than
331 millions were borrowed and spent by
the States. It was this borrowing which
produced wholly artificial conditions in
Australia, besides loading us with a burden
of interest and charges, from some of which
we are now making a humiliating effort to
escape.
It would have been the easiest thing in
the world for the banks to have joined in
the great drunk. There was money to be
got by the tens of millions. In the late
’eighties, when what was by comparison a
baby boom was in progress, the banks
opened their pockets for all that the foreign
depositor would pour into them. They
learned their lesson in the crash which fol-
lowed : and during these later years, when
the politicians were busy piling up trouble,
the bankers sat down and built up
strength to meet it. The weakness
of a bank in times of stress lies in
its deposits; its strength lies in its own
capital and reserves. Ihe deposits may be
called for when it is least convenient to
pay them—certainly will be called for if
it is even suspected that it is inconvenient
to pay them. The capital and reserves are
there for good; and the greater these are in
proportion to its borrowings, the greater the
strength of the bank. Now compare these
figures of Australian trading banks other
than the Commonwealth Bank:—
1918. 1930.
Paid-up capital .. £22,038.521 £44,845,874
Reserves .. .. 19,571 <49 36.541.812
Total Funds ..£41,6.-9,970 £81,391,686
And then go on to these:—
Total Owing to Public.
1918. 1930.
Deposits .. ..£241,185,939 £263,434,358
Otner debts . . 39,343,576 6,202,255
Total .. ..£280,529,515 £269,636,613
Thus while the politicians were piling an
extra debt of over 378 millions on the back
of Australia, chiefly in works which did not
pay one farthing of their interest cost, and
were engaging to repay this money without
the least consideration of where it was to
come from, the banks actually reduced their
debts by 11 millions. But they did better
than that. Against the time when they
knew that the drain upon their resources
would be tremendous if these mad Gov-
ernments were to be saved from bank-
ruptcy, they not only accumulated surplus
profits but actually called up nearly 23
millions of new share capital. As at June,
1919, they had £l4B of their own money for
every £lOOO of the public’s money at risk;
at June, 1930, they had the public’s £lOOO
protected by no less than £302 of their own.
And, as shown in this week’s “Wild Cat”
section, their position • has been further
greatly strengthened by the development of
the Commonwealth Bank as a Reserve
Bank.
There is no magic about banks. They
cannot “create credits” out of nothing. It
is true that they can make advances on
their own credit: but behind that credit
there must be cash resources. On the
strength of their own funds they can secure
deposits; on the strength of those deposits
they can make advances; but if those
advances cannot be repaid when the
deposits are called for—if, for example, they
are in pastoral or agricultural properties
or improvements which cannot be promptly
sold—then, as in the case of the Primary
Producers’ Bank, there must be a crash.
The banks of Australia are accused, as
banks everywhere are, of “restricting
credits.” What they have done is,to restrict
advances which threatened to be “frozen”
—that is, not capable of quick liquidation.
The Government Savings Bank crashed be-
cause it had given too much credit which be-
came “frozen”: so did the P. P. Bank. So
wou’d every other bank which did not avoid
this grave error. That we should have passed
through two years of terrific strain without
having to face the appalling catastrophe of
bank suspensions, other than the two above-
mentioned. shows better than anything else
could do the wisdom with which our bank-
ing system has been handled during the
dozen years when it would have been so
easy to have gone with the tide, so profit-
able and popular immediately and so disas-
trous ultimately.
IN DEFENCE OF THE TALKIES.
“The Chief Justice of Victoria said that a certain
class of cinematograph film was having an evil
influence upon young men.”
It used to be melodrama in my youth.
Theatrical productions of one sort or an-
other have been blamed for vice and crime
in the English-speaking world for a thou-
sand years. The Church began it when
religious and morality plays were superseded
by so-called pagan plays, meaning plays
about life. Later the Puritans took up the
campaign, and to this day there are sects
whose members consider it a sin to enter
a theatre. At different periods—during the
Restoration era, for example—dramas and
comedies were written and produced which
shocked later generations; but we know
that comparatively few objected to them
in their day, which probably means that
they did no particular damage. They
weren’t responsible for the habits of the
times; the habits were responsible for them.
The English stage had reached a low
level when the films arrived, and Judges
and clerics often complained of its evil
effects on the young. Perhaps they were
justified to an extent; many of the shows
had nothing to recommend them. We talk
about the idiocy of some modern talkies,
but thejr are rational compared with scores
of nlays that the Victorians took seriously.
Henry Arthur Jones was proud of his share
in writing “The Silver King ” and quar-
relled with his collaborator, Herman, over
the responsibility for about the most fright-
ful rvpoe of bathos in it. The old thriller
caused derision when it was revived in
Melbourne four or five years ago. Clement
Scott, the London “Dailv Telegraph’s”
famous critic, described “East Lynne” as
“a dramatic masterpiece.” The “Argus”
said of the talkie version recently:—
Perhaps the greatest tribute that can be paid to
the producers is to say that it is neither as provoca-
tive of tears as it once was, nor as amusing as in
more recent years it has been considered to be.
These were the classics which filled London’s
West End theatres. At the other end of
the scale were such grotesque works as
Maria Martin, or the Murder in the Red
Bam,” and “Sweeny Todd the Barber,”
which were revived at the Elephant and
Castle a few years ago. They were no
remoter from life nor more maudlin than
scores of shows on the other side of the
Thames, but they were more gruesome and
morbid. In “Sweeny Todd” the throat-
cuttings were performed with ghastly
attention to detail, and in “Maria Martin”
the murderer was hanged in view of the
audience. Nobody minded in the nineteenth
century except a few moralists who never
went to the theatre, anyhow.
Many popular favorites of 20-odd years
ago, such as “Romance” and “Raffles,” have
been seen by the present generation in
talkie form. Some, such as “Disraeli” and
“Grumpy,” have been seen with the leading
men who originally starred in them. As for
the others, was, say, “Iris,” in which Oscar
Asche smashed the furniture when, the lady
he had been supporting threw him over for
a gigolo, any more elevating than the aver-
age Garbo or Dietrich presentation? Was
Penley funnier or less vulgar in “Charlie’s
Aunt” or “The Private Secretary” than
Chaplin is in “City Lights”? Was Douglas
Fairbanks less soul-destroying in “Haw-
thorne of the U.S.A.” than in his films
silent or audible?
You can match almost any kind of talkie
with a similar entertainment in the pre-film
era. The “society” films which Mr. O’Reilly
censors so freely are merely “problem
plays” brought up to date. The “gangsters”
are modem developments of “Alias Jimmy
Valentine” and “The Last Resort.” The
screen musical comedies are the same old
leg-shows we sat through before the war,
with bigger ballets and more elaborate
scenic effects. I can even remember seeing
a travel-gazette (“Around the World”)
when the present century was young.
But there are directions in which the
screen of to-day beats the stage of yester-
day out of sight. The stage was practically
useless as a cultural medium for the general
public. The screen has taught millions
mind-broadening facts which they might
never have learned otherwise about foreign
countries, cities, customs and statesmen;
navies, armies, natural history and sport.
Some of the dramas teach geography as
effectively as the newsreels. And there is
the acting. Hardly anybody outside a few
great cities on the other side of the world
knew what good acting was till the films
arrived. Nowadays, you rarely see bad
acting, and our dusty cousins of the far-out
can watch some of the greatest exponents
of the art in the world for a shilling or two.
In short, the talkies, apart from being less
crude on the whole than the stage produc-
tions which immediately preceded them,
have a high cultural and, to that extent,
moral value. Teachers who have noticed
the effects on their pupils are beginning to
admit it, and it is puzzling that more people
of light and leading don’t follow suit.
J. B. D.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Crisis in Britain.
A National Government has been formed
in Britain, consisting of representatives of
all three great parties, its object being, it
is said, “to save the £.” What does that
mean?
When Smith lends Brown £lOO he ties
a string to it. He wants it back. He is
therefore interested in knowing what Brown
does with the money. If Brown is making
good use of it—that is, earning money with
it—Smith is satisfied. He is fairly confi-
dent then that he will recover his money.
But if Brown merely lives upon it, using it
as a dole, then Smith gets anxious.
Much the same thing happens when there
is a nation of Browns and a multitude of
Smiths, especially if the Smiths belong to
another country. They begin to doubt
the ability of the nation of Browns to make
repayment. If the nation of Browns is
living beyond its means—that is to say, if
it persistently fails to balance its budget—
the doubts grow. The creditor begins to
question whether the nation’s p.n. is worth
20s. in the £. We know what happened in
our own case: our £—our chief p.n.—fell
away to about 16s. As soon as these doubts
arise, there is a withdrawal of gold, because
of fear that the paper £ will soon be worth less
than the gold £ —bad money always drives
out good. The withdrawal of gold backing
for the paper issue immediately tends to
further depress the paper £. And so the
evil grows.
An importing country is hit hardest: in
our own case we are paying about a third
more in our own money for everything that
we purchase abroad. This sends up the
cost of living—less noticeable in our case
because we produce most of our own neces-
saries. Britain does not; and that is Ram-
say MacDonald’s concern. “If,” he says,
“the £ fell suddenly and catastrophically,
prices would rise faster than wages could
be adjqsted, as was seen in Germany. The
worst sufferers would be the people with the
smallest incomes.” Therefore he has joined
with the other parties in an effort to balance
the budget by cutting down expenses, in-
cluding the dole, and increasing taxation,
though it is declared that the limit in that
direction has been almost reached.
And in Britain, as in Australia,, there is
a strong Labor body which blames “the
banks,” and especially the American finan-
ciers. This is a concerted attack, they say,
on social services and wages, while leaving
the charges on the war debt untouched.
It all boils down, of course, to the world-
wide offensive against “capitalism.” Britain


may be suffering from capitalism, but it is
suffering more from the stupid idea that
there is some mysterious source from which
“social services” and the equivalent of
wages can be paid without production. In
Russia they have given up that foolish
notion; and so will Britain have to. And
so shall we.
4
What Swindle Lies Behind?
Parker Moloney has added his respectable
but deluded voice to the chorus which says
there must be, and is shortly going to be,
a Federal referendum on the subject of
unification. In a week-end address at Gee-
long he told his audience that Australia
has 62 million people, and that number can
be governed by one Parliament. Of course
lie doesn’t know, there being no record of
a time when 6! million people, spread over
2,974,581 square miles of territory, were
satisfactorily misgoverned from one centre.
It would call for intelligence and experience
to know the requirements of such an area,
and except in Australia there is no party
sufficiently mad to make the proposition.
The puzzle is to guess what exactly is the
swindle behind the scheme. The Common-
wealth has seven Legislatures certainly, and
lor that matter Switzerland, often held up
as a model of good management, has 26,
and the Netherlands have 12. Australia
had six Legislatures in 1861 for 1,153,973
inhabitants, and no one' noticed any excess;
but, then, Communists and objectionable
characters of the sort didn’t flourish then.
The purpose of the unification movement is
assuredly not economy, for the six State
Legislatures (including Governor, Ministers,
private members, reporters and the host of
officials, together with elections, printing,
etc.) cost about half a crown per inhabitant
per annum. That was the figure two years
ago before economy set in. It is less now.
The half-dozen Parliaments cost about as
much in a year as a Lang deficit amounts
to in a month, and the half-crown of paper
money wouldn’t be saved by their abolition,
for a sacked Parliamentary employee turns
up as an applicant for food and shelter in
some shape or form like any other sacked
person.
The people who have been so suddenly
seized with a desire to shift Heaven and
earth and to raise Hell in order (they say)
to save their downtrodden capitalistic fellow-
creatures 2s. 6d. paper money in a year,
and who pull the credulous Australian leg
in the name of cheapness, play a rather
simple game. If the Red element scores a
victory at the referendum re> the abolition
of State Parliaments, it will also score a
victory at the Federal Parliamentary elec-
tion held on the same day. The same mob
which provided one success will provide the
other. Then if the referendum holds good
(though there is no provision in the Con-
stitution for that kind of referendum), there
will be a delirious interlude while chaos
is settling (or boiling) down. The Reds at
Canberra or at the Sydney Trades Hall
can’t manage everything directly and per-
sonally from their desks at headquarters,
arid there will be a headlong and tremend-
ous appointing of agents and representatives
all over the continent so as to make a new
machine of administration to replace the
one which has been suddenly dismantled or
disqualified. There should be room for Red
policemen, magistrates, Judges, dog inspec-
tors, meat and sheep and cattle inspectors,
and all manner of appointments. It will
be a cold day when a good Communist goes
short of a job—all in the name of economy!
To make the referendum a success even
in name it would be necessary to secure, or
to fake, a majority in four States out of
six, as well as a general majority. But the
minority States, which might be Queens-
land and Westralia, would probably tell the
Bolshevik majority (in temporary control
at Canberra, and trying hard to dig itself
in) that the referendum was wholly illegal,
and that they intended to keep their State
Legislatures and police and law courts and
the rest of the apparatus, and that if the
Red element at Canberra proposed to try
compulsion a regrettable shindy might fol-
low. Probably a Red Government at Can-
berra would not call out a Red Army to
suppress any State which refused to give
up its Statehood, even if the Red Govern-
ment at Canberra professed to be backed
by a bogus mandate. But secession move-
ments and State suppression movements are
not too appropriate just now, when the Com-
monwealth doesn’t want to add to its
reputation for mild lunacy.
4.
The N.S.W. Savings Bank.
If the N.S.W. Leg. Council did no other
good thing for three years, what it did to
the Government Savings Bank Bill would
more than justify its existence: and the fact
that it had to do these things makes the
case for a second chamber unanswerable.
As always happens nowadays there was no
real debate on the bill in the Assembly.
Like every other measure it was gagged
through; and as it reached the Council it
was a scandalous assault upon the rights of
depositors. As it left the Council and was
presently accepted by the Assembly it em-
bodied every amendment which this paper
suggested last week must be made in it.
The bill as passed by the Assembly per-
mitted money derived from the sale of old
assets—money belonging clearly to old de-
positors—to be used to repay new depositors
and for other new-business purposes. An
amendment requires the Commissioners to
apply money of the Old Business division
to the repayment of old deposits. The bill
lifted indefinitely the State’s guarantee
under which deposits were obtained. The
amendment releases the State only till the
end of 1933. Loans raised on the security
of the assets of the Old Division are to be
used only for the purposes of the Old Divi-
sion; old deposit receipts are made saleable
under regulations to be drawn up by the
Commissioners; and nobody is to have first
grab at the money of the old depositors
as it becomes available.
There are, of course, disappointments
ahead. Very many people still believe that
the bank has only to open its doors and
they will find their money waiting for them.
It is apparently no use telling them that
the money has been put into Government
securities and private loans —for home-
building, etc.—which it will take years to
liquidate. It may be possible to borrow
money on the security of these securities
and so hasten the repayment of deposits;
but borrowing now is difficult. Under ordi-
nary circumstances new deposits would pay
old; but‘for a long while to come the Com-
missioners will be obliged to invest new
money with the utmost caution and keep
a large proportion of all liabilities at call.
Nevertheless, they are right who say that
the greater the prosperity of the new bank
the better the prospects of the old de-
positors; for a vigorous new business will
lighten the load of overhead expenses. If,
however, confidence should flow back over-
slowly, it is to be hoped that the new board
will have no hesitation in re-opening nego-
tiations with the Commonwealth Bank.
4
Wheat-farmers May Strike.
Australia will not get rid of its obligations
to the wheat-farmers as easily next year as
it did this year. During last year they were
promised anything from Bs. per bushel
down. In the end, outside Queensland, they
got no help worth mentioning. Now, how-
ever, a rapidly increasing Wheat-growers’
Federation is at work, and its members in
two States, N.S.W. and Westralia, have
already decided “that we pledge ourselves
not to sell or allow our wheat to be taken
this harvest unless farmers receive cost of
production plus a reasonable profit.”
The Federation is apparently not directly
concerned with the manner in which the
help shall be given. So far only one prac-
ticable method has been proposed: a sales
tax on flour, the proceeds being divided
among farmers. There is nothing new
about this: it is an adaptation of the
system originally applied to sugar and
later extended to butter. And it is
in full line with the nationally accepted
policy of Protection. The factory operative
is protected against the cheap labor of
foreign parts by a tariff : it is good business
to ask . the community to pay a trifle more
for its needs in order to keep the jobs in
the country. The farmer, in common with
the rest of us, must pay these higher costs;
but he cannot add them on to the price of
the goods he produces, because the bulk of
them he must sell abroad. His only hope,
therefore, is to get a rise in the price of
that proportion of his output which he sells
in Australia. If he can’t get that rise, then
he must either go out of business, or break
down the high costs under which he pro-
duces. We simply dare not let him go out
of business: our foreign obligations forbid
it. And equally we dare not break down
his high costs by sweeping away the tariff,
for that would shut up half the factories in
Australia.
There is no alternative but something in
the shape of a sales tax; and the sooner we
get to work on it the sooner will confidence
return to this badly-shaken industry.
Unlucky South Australia.
The observant stranger who wishes to study
a typical State of the Commonwealth
should visit South Australia. There he will
see the Australian in all his strength and
(considered as a political being) in all his
weakness. In his travels through the coun-
try the observant stranger will be greatly
impressed with what the settlers have done
with limited resources—a comparatively
small area of good arable and grazing land,
and no minerals worth mentioning—and the
very high quality of their produce. Adel-
aide will probably strike him as the best-
ordered of Australian cities, yet he will be
told that it is the one which is experiencing
the harshest effects of the Australian bor-
rowing and congestion policies, which are
like nothing else on earth. At the end of
1929 just on 56 per cent, of the South Aus-
tralians were trying to get a living in Adel-
aide and suburbs, and, allowing for the in-
flux of laborers from abandoned or curtailed
loan works, probably 60 per cent, are there
now. One perhaps inevitable result, evi-
denced in the recent Adelaide by-election,
is the introduction of an unspeakable brand
of mob politics from Sydney.
In 1919-20, when the State had 490,000
people who owed 424 millions, the South
Aus. politicians set out on a mighty loan
drunk. By June, 1928, they had added just
on fifty millions to the public debt, and
they spent most of the money on railways
and irrigation works, both Budget-wrecking
enterprises, as has been shown elsewhere.
And while other States enjoyed good sea-
sons and high prices, South Aus. was
scourged by drought. In 1929-30 the Gov-
ernment had to come to the relief of 5200
settlers who had lost their crops. In the
same year “railway losses,” the Auditor-
General reported, “amounted to over
£2,000.000, more than the whole of the
amount received from income tax and land
tax”; although in a resolute attempt to
grapple with the situation taxation had been
pushed to a higher level than has been
reached in some other States—Westralia,
for instance —even in these depression days.
It was tragic that the return of good sea-
sons should synchronise with the tumble in
the prices of wool and wheat.
Now another cruel blow has smitten the
State. Winter rains having been exceptional,
a tremendous volume of water has gone
down the Murray. At threatened points in
Victoria and N. S. Wales the banks held,
but increasing its pressure in its journey
to the sea the swollen river found outlets,
and in the reclaimed swamps between
Mannum and Murray Bridge, the farmers
have seen crops, stock, buildings—the fruits
of years of unremitting industry—washed
away. It is a bad business altogether, and
South Australians may well feel that mis-
fortune has marked them for its own. But
these Murray settlers are a sturdy breed,
and they will rise superior to their calami-
ties. Indeed, the people are so sound, at
heart and level-headed, despite the tempo-
rary madness of their politicians, that they
will probably be the first to tackle that re-
distribution of population which is the
greatest of our problems.
These “investors.”
After eveiy race meeting at which the new
tote is in operation, Melbourne journals tell
us how much was “invested” and how many
“investors” there were. Sydney journals
give similar misinformation about the new
Government lottery, together with pictures
of the “investors” (many of them appa-
rently on the dole) assembled in queues.
And, replying to Mr. Kilpatrick (“S. M.
Herald” report), “Mr. Lang said the Gov-
ernment intended to amend the law to ex-
clude the investor’s stake from the winning
bets tax.” Even the N.S.W. Auditor-
General refers in one of his reports to “a
decline of £1,040,253 in the total invest-
ments on totalisators.”
No other country goes in for these gloz-
ing euphemisms. No British, Canadian or
Maoriland Premier or representative news-
paper can be imagined as confusing in-
vestors with bettors or applying the word
“investment” to a 100,000 th share in a lot-
tery drawing. An investor is fundamentally
a buyer of property, of property with the
qualities of productiveness and permanence.
What productiveness, what permanence is
there in the purchase of a sweep or tote
ticket, or in the exchange of good currency
for a bit of paper bearing a bookmaker’s
hieroglyphics?
This widespread and persistent misuse of
terms may be reckoned a small matter. But
beyond question it contributes to that false
thinking on financial matters which has had
such unfortunate results, and to that exag-
geration of the gambling spirit (useful as
the gambling spirit can be in cases like
those of soldiers and pioneers) which has
taken such grotesque forms.
Progress in Russia.
There is nothing in the world better watch-
ing than the Russian experiment. It was
and still is the greatest challenge ever made
to capitalism, competitivism or whatever
else we like to call this system under which
white civilisation has developed. It may
be there is a better system. The one we
know is admittedly capable of certain evil
results; at any rate, is incapable—as we
see to-day—of preventing certain evil
things: widespread unemployment especi-
ally. The Russian experiment is the first
test of anj' other system on a mammoth
scale; and the sincere student will watch it
with profound interest.
Already it has passed through several
distinct phases. It began with the assump-
tion that the State had the right to every
man’s best, and that every man’s best was
entitled to equal reward. They said that
the man who swept the gutters performed
a social service equal to that of the Judge
on the bench, and so much more disagree-
able that if anybody was entitled to extra
pay it was the gutter-sweep. But it would
not work in practice; and first Trotsky, then
Lenin, now Stalin have been driven to
change their viewpoints and policies.
“Hitherto,” said Stalin in a recent address
—“hitherto there had been hardly any dif-
ference between the earnings of skilled and
unskilled workers, and therefore the un-
skilled had no incentive to improve their
qualifications. This evil could no longer
be tolerated.” So competitivism comes back.
But more striking still is the complete
abandonment of the old formula, “To each
according to his needs”—a formula adopted
with modifications in Australia and made
the foundation of the basic wage. “A
system of payment according to the work-
ers’ need could not be allowed,” Stalin
declared. “Workers must be paid strictly
a-ccording to the amount and the quality
of the work they performed.”
Going forward on such lines Communism
may be a success. But if it has to move on
such lines, thousands who to-day are full
of enthusiasm for the new gospel will no
longer have any use for it, especially when
it has to be coupled up with a system of
forced labor.
«
One Cart One Parcel.
In Sydney “the unions have decided to
attempt to boycott self-service stores on
the ground that they are responsible for
hundreds of shop-assistants and other
workers being thrown out of employment.”
A combined meeting of representatives of
shop-assistants, storemen and packers, bread-
carters and road-transport employees had
been held and had “decided to appeal to
the public to insist upon being served in
such stores by adult labor and to demand
that purchases should be delivered at homes.”
Such announcements are surely among
the saddest facts of Australian life to-day.
For they illustrate, not only the profound
economic ignorance which surrounds us, but
the enormous difficulties, springing out of
self-interest, which are in the way of reform.
If it be a fact that the more labor we
employ the better off we are, why stop at
insisting upon the employment of a few
more shophands and carters? Why not insist
upon one shophand for the sugar, a second
for the salt and a third for the mustard?
Why not insist, too, upon one cart one
parcel? And, indeed, at a time when costs
didn’t matter, or didn’t seem to matter, wc
have been ignorant enough to insist upon
something ol the sort. At Broken Hill,
where there is probably more economic
darkness to the foot of population than any-
where else in Australia, the tearing up of
the street trams was cheerfully encouraged;
a driver and conductor could shift far 100
many people. So ’buses were put on in
their place. But that was very little better.
So ’buses in their turn were booted out, and
motor-cars substituted. Of course it all
pushed up costs, which didn’t matter as
long as metal markets were good. But to-
day only the two richest mines at Broken
Hill are regularly at work; and nobody
knows how long they will keep going. Half
the population has either been dispersed or
gone on the dole.
Australia can get nowhere until it realises
that work is no good at all—that only pro-
ductive work counts; that the reason our
industries cannot keep going is that costs
are too high; and that costs are too high
not so much because wages are high as
because every industry has to support a
horde of parasites. Some middlemen are
necessary—distributors and the like. But,
necessary or unnecessary, every distributor,
every middleman, every non-producer of
every kind, has to be carried on the
backs of the producers. Given a bad enough
distribution of population, the time comes —
as it has come in Australia—when the pro-
ducer becomes exhausted (you can see that
in our secondary as well as our primary
industries); also there is not enough to be
sucked out of him to keep the parasites
going, wherefore they drop off. One has
only to look around at the empty shops in
cities and suburbs to see how far this latter
process has gone.
Of course it is a regrettable thing fpr shop-
assistants, storemen, packers and carters to
be unemployed. But they are only adding
to their own troubles and Australia’s by
striving to multiply unproductive jobs and
to put themselves into them. Without the
shadow of a doubt the same thing will
happen again: the drain of the parasites
upon the producing industries will become
too great to be borne; those industries will
wilt; and the parasitic horde—shop-assist-
ants, storemen, packers, carters —will drop
off bloodless and exhausted. There is only
one proper thing to do with them and only
one thing that is not cruel—and that is to
put them at productive industry. Whether
it should be a primary or a secondary
industry the circumstances must decide.
There is room in both. But the develop-
ment of employment means organisation,
organisation cannot take us far without con-
fidence; and confidence will be shy so long
as a large section of our population, instead
of aiming to reduce costs, cheerfully dis-
cusses methods whose only result can be
to increase them.
♦
Butter and Margarine.
Dear Bulletin, —The statement of “Viau”
(B. 12/8/’3l) that “four years ago the
British margarine manufacturers made a
profit of about £4,000,000” should make our
butter-producers take notice. They should
go after this trade by pointing out that,
from the nutritional and health point of
view, margarine made from vegetable oil
cannot be a substitute for butter. Veget-
able-oil margarine does not contain the vita-
mines, three in number, which regulate
growth, sound bones and teeth and fertility;
butter does. Any community attempting
to derive its major fat supply from vegetable
margarine will inevitably be stunted, rick-
etty, a constant sufferer from toothache and
below average in fertility. Sound propa-
ganda on these lines in England put out
by our butter interests should capture some
of those stray millions. Incidentally, vita-
mines are not a silly fad, they are a vital
necessity. There is more ill-health due to
dietary mistakes than are dreamt of. Lots
of milk—not just enough to color tea —eggs,
butter and fresh fruit and raw vegetables are
the basis of a healthy diet.—Yours, J.V.D.
*
Labor and the Premiers’ Plan..
The resolution of the Labor Conference in
Melbourne leaves the Federal Government
in a most unsatisfactory.position. “We can’t
afford to kick you out for this,” the con-
ference says, discussing the Premiers’ Plan,
“but it is totally opposed to Labor policy,
and you will not go a step further in that
direction. On the contrary, you will under-
stand that Labor policy requires something
quite opposite.” How can the administra-
tion be satisfactory in such circumstances' 1
Mr. Scullin is trying to run with the
hare and hunt with the hounds, and it can t
be done with success. Ramsay MacDonald
found himself in the same predicament in
England, and he solved the problem in the
way best calculated to promote the in-
terests of the nation. Thus far it has been
solved in Melbourne in the way that seems
best calculated to promote the interests of
Mr. Scullin and his colleagues.


■
I
m
O this famous Hotel of finer living has been
* added the further pleasure of astonishingly
reduced prices. Patrons are benefiting by our
lower costs in every department. Everything
else is the same delightful “Australia” quality—
the tempting cuisine, efficient service, luxurious
comfort and delightful atmosphere.
Decide to enjoy Sydney's Springtime—and
make 11 The Australia ” your headquarters.
Single Room from 10/6 per day
Double Room .... from 20/- per day
LIGHT LUNCHEON,
in the Winter Garden, 2 -
The
Australia
Hotel
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: " Austraotel, Sydney."
LUNCHEON AND DINNER,
d la carte in Grill Room, minimum 4A
d la carte in Dining Hall, minimum 5/-
BREAKFAST,
•' - and 3/6; and a la carte.
Reduced Tariff
POLITICAL
POINTS
There is a warm discussion in Queens-
land as to what ought to be done about the
Leg. Council. To The Bulletin’s “The
referendum was against abolition —therefore
restore it,” the reply is that the referendum
was taken 14 years ago, and that the
present shouldn’t be governed by anything
done so long ago as that. But the present
is being governed by something done then;
that is to say, the Leg. Council was then
abolished in the teeth of the referendum,
and it remains abolished, The Bulletin
doesn’t object to a referendum after the
Council has been restored ; but it holds that
good old status quo ought to be first re-estab-
lished. If we steul a man’s horse after the
Court has said it belongs to the other fellow,
the first thing to insist upon is that the
beast should he returned to the owner.
Lang was roped in by the organisers of
the conversion loan to broadcast a support-
ing speech from 2FC, Sydney. Ilis closing
sentence was “Convert your bonds and make
money,” and in the “Labor Daily” report
“Convert and Make Money” was the head-
“Yet nobody’ll lend me a razo[?]. Blowed
if I can understand it.”
line. Among the listeners were doubtless
thousands of thrifty working people who, at
the urgent call of Seullin and Lyons, sub-
scribed to the £28,000,000 6 p.c. loan last
year, out of which Lang’s Government got
£1.000,000, and who, as a result of the Lang
“plan.” saw the market price of a £lOO
bond fall below £BO. Lang ought to have
kept his insolent rubbish for the Domain.
Premier Mitchell, of Westralia, has
arranged with the .Commonwealth to take
over his State Savings Bank, which doesn’t
square well with the fact that he is in the
thick of a vociferous secession movement, and
proposes to throw the Commonwealth qut
of Westralia on its ear. He may hold that
the Federal people, having charge of the post
offices, could run the institution more cheaply
than be can, but then he proposes to snatcb
the Postal Department from the Common-
wealth on Secession Day, so the change seems
hardly worth while. At June, 1930, the
Westralian Savings Bank had £8,567.940 of
assets, and of these £6,737,376 were Govern-
ment securities. This was about 79 per
cent., a far bigger proportion than that of
any other institution of the sort. “Cash in
hand, in transit and on current account”
was set down at £146,096, which was far
below the average.
There was a bit of a run on the West-
ralian Savings Bank when the negotiations
with the Commonwealth were announced,
and Minister Jack Scaddan spoke to the
depositors in the George Dibbs vein, while
the Commonwealth Bank came to light with
“two heavy chests” and a reassuring Gibson
telegram. The trouble with savings banks
like the Westralian and N. S. Wales concerns
is that, in the race for size they have offered
high interest and too many facilities for
easy and sudden withdrawal. To earn the
high interest they have to put a high pro-
portion of their money into fixed invest-
ments and hold a small proportion in cash,
and consequently earning no interest, to meet
the easy and sudden withdrawals. Govern-
ment securities used to be considered the
kind that could be realised on at any moment,
but now they are both slow and cheap.
Vic. legislation authorising the collection
of stamp duty on wages, up to £6 a week,
for unemployment relief has been re-enacted
till October 10, it having become evident
that there was no hope of putting through
the bill providing for increased taxation by
Aug. 31—the date on which the sections relat-
ing to the wages tax expired. The Uppish
House is growing more and more critical of
the Assembly’s financial performances under
Labor leadership, and even the cracking of the
stockwhip by the “Age” in the old David
Syme fashion has had no noticeable effect.
Maoriland’s railway deficit for 1930-31 was
£1,560,618, and that was a year in which
wages and salaries were cut 10 p.c., many
empioyees were discharged or retired, and
economies were practised in all departments.
In 1929-30 the loss was £1,211,269; in 1928-
29, £432,743. Only in the last few years
has interest been computed in the account,
and it is safe to say that not since 1913-14
have the railways shown a profit. They are
having their fourth change in mode of man-
agement within six years. The “board of
business men” now in charge has taken on
a stiff contract.
Once upon a time the chief trouble with
the Papuan Administration was to induce
the simple son of the soil to work. Nowa-
days, when he has been more or less edu-
cated to a sense of the dignity of toil, the
difficulty is to find work for him. The drop
in world prices for such products as copra
has hit Papua hard, while goldmining and
beche-de-mer fishing are practically aban-
doned industries. Natives employed under
contract at the end of the last financial
year were nearly 3000 fewer in number
than in the previous period. Nevertheless,
there seems to be no necessity for the dole,
brown brother’s wants being few. The excel-
lent policy of the past, which compelled each
native laborer to return at intervals to his
village to preserve his communal rights in
land and gardens, is now bearing good fruit.
One interesting feature of the conversion-
loan campaign was the instruction to bond-
holders that they might convert at branches
of the Commonwealth Bank in any capital
city, or at Rockhampton, Townsville and
Launceston. This calls significant attention
to the fact that only Tasmania and Queens-
land have avoided the centralisation of all
interests in a single . bloated city on the
coast: and it is no mere coincidence that
they are the States which have suffered
least from the slump. Rockhampton and
Townsville are each ports for a huge hinter-
land served by railways. Cairns might well
have been included in the conversion centre
list, for it, too, is an independent port whose
railways fetch and carry for a great section
of N.Q.
Lang, who promised to find jobs for all
the unemployed and to go in for “sound
economy and, prudent finance,” has budgeted
for a deficit of £5,410,000, and is doubling
the child-endowment tax —hitherto 1 p.c. of
wages and salaries paid. It is stupidly
alleged that this impost is not a tax, being
part of the basic-wage system—and in N. S.
Wales, alone among the States, the basic
wage has not been reduced. A tax it is,
of course, and a shamefully one-sided and
oppressive one—crude and dishonest also,
since probably nine-tenths of the money is
going to the families of unemployed. The
only effect of doubling it will be to throw
more people out of work.
“The formation of the National Cabinet is attri-
buted to the earnest representations and great per-
sonal influence of the King.”
“How does that thing from ‘The Gondo-
liers’ go, Mary? I’ve got it! ‘l’ve a
satisfying feeling that my duty has
been done!”
Much against the will of the Hogans, Vic.
Assembly decided last week to make advances
to farmers from the unemployment fund for
developmental work at wages not exceeding
fl a week. The advances are to be repaid
in five equal annual instalments, beginning
on June 30, 1933. Perhaps there wil] be a
variation of this proposal before the Unem-
ployment Bill passes both Houses; certainly
the Uppish Chi.mbah will maul the measure,
as it did the Moratorium Bill.
A common hatred of the Graves-Garden
faction has brought old enemies together.
At the "special” Labor conference in Mel-
bourne Theodore was a Ma State delegate
along with Bailey, of the A.W.U., who lost
his Assembly seat for Goulburn and his posi-
tion in “the movement” as a result of
Theodore’s judgment in the affair of the
ballot-boxes with sliding panels. At Sydney
“Mr. Scullin likened the position to that of an
aeroplane, one of whose engines had stopped, and
whose pilot, by lightening the ’plane, gave assurance
of a safe landing. But that was before the Mel-
bourne Labor conference flatly condemned his policy.”
“For Heaven’s sake, Ted, come and take
the joystick.”
meetings of the new Federal Labor organi-
sation Bailey sits with J. H. Cafts, who
tried to “clean up the movement” when
Bailey controlled it and was expelled, with
the loss of his seat —Federal Cook. Possibly
when the wheel turns again Lang and
Garden will be lining up with Theodore
against Lang’s brother-in-law McNamara
and his “socialisation committee,” which now
threatens to capture “the movement.”
Nothing can shake the Lang mob’s belief
that it has a genius for business, though if
it were put in charge of a peanut-roaster
it would burn up all the nuts. Dole bread
and butcher’s meat having engaged it's clumsy
attention, it is now meddling in the metro-
politan milk trade, and its Minister McGirr
is shooting mud at George Macleay Mac-
arthur-Onslow, of Light Horse celebrity, who
has shares in the Dairy Farmers’ Co-op.
Sydney is such a straggling place that the
necessaries of life have to be delivered to
people living in 2542 miles of made roads
and streets. Thanks to the politicians and
the “Good ole Piddos,” doughmakers get
£6 11s. to £6 13s. (id., ovenmen £6 165.,
operative bakers £6 Bs. 6d., breadcarters £5
Bs. Od. and milkcarters £4 14s. to £4 17s.
for a 44-hour week. Employers have to pay
Federal and State income tax, State unem-
ployment tax, State endowment tax (now to
be £2 in the £lOO of wages), high workers’-
compensation charges and local rates. These
things really explain why bread qud milk
are dearer than they ought to be, and why
at the same time milk suppliers, distributing
cos. and bakers protest that “the game is no
good”; but the mudshooting McGirrs never
mention them.
The Moore Government has been at logger-
heads with the Queensland civil-service
organisation over salary reductions. At a
recent meeting of the union (it is a union)
speaker after speaker held forth in a strain
with which the N.S.W. taxpayers are drearily
familiar, saying, in effect, that Comrade.
Percy would take a dreadful revenge at
next year’s State election. Not lacking in
courage, though deficient in tact, the. Gov-
ernment has. hit back hard. Copley, presi-
dent of the union, and Baker, vice-president,
have been transferred from Brisbane to parts
remote—Copley to Mackay and Baker to
Cloncurry. And public-service regs. now
forbid officers “to publicly comment on
any administrative action or on the admin-
istration of any department of State,” or
to take part in political affairs while on
duty, “save as regards the exercise of the fran-
chise.” Shrill cries of “tyranny” and “vic-
timisation” have been raised, but the
Government may survive them,
C. G. Latham, acting as Premier of West-
ralia while Mitchell was away saving the
Savings Bank, told a meeting of the Perth
Chamber of Commerce that unification is
inevitable. Why does our land require so
violently to be saved by such cranky
devices, and how would unification or
secession save it from anything? Australia
has the record public debt. Westralia beats-all
other Australian States out of sight in this
respect, and the Legislature at Perth tries
to run the biggest and most unmanageable
territory that is mismanaged directly from
one Parliamentary centre anywhere on this
earth. There is no sudden remedy for this
complication of diseases, either in the seces-
sion of one State, or tlie secession of the
vvhole six States, or by dissolving all
six State Legislatures - and sending all
their accumulated failings to be tipped out
in a heap at Canberra. And Freetrade isn’t
a remedy, else the Old Man in Loudon
wouldn’t be in his present heroic mess.
Vic. Houses of Parliament can’t agree
about the reduction of Supreme Court
Judges’ pay. The Council has twice sug-
gested that the six wigs (including Acting-
Justice Wasley) should be excluded from
the cut (25 p.c.) provided for in the Finan-
cial Emergency Bill, particularly as they
offered voluntarily to forfeit 20 p.c.; but
the Assembly has refused to give way. The
point in dispute and others will go to a
conference.
If this country doesn’t save itself it won’t
be for want of advice. Latest counsel comes
from the native-owned “China Truth,” of
Shanghai, which thinks that perhaps a mil-
lion Chinese might do it. “White Australia!”
laughs “China Truth” —“nobody takes any
notice of that! It is a myth.”
The fact remains that not a single white man
works in the canefields of Queensland or other
parts of the country. The South Sea Islanders and
imported Indians are the mainstay of the Australian
sugar industry. The white policy there is not en-
forced. It is not infrequent that these colored
laborers will go out on strike during the grinding
season by demanding better treatment, and in some
cases more pay, though nearly all of them are in-
dentured laborers and cannot, therefore, legally
demand an increase. In the majority of farms in
Australia the native black is employed to do the
manual work as teamsters, wool-shearers and genera!
servants. The white man does very little manual
labor.
Still, perhaps, there is room in it for more
than a laugh. Is John seriously turning his
thoughts this way?
Gordon Coates, ex-Priminister and now
Opposition leader in M.L., has been looking
at the question of a coalition from various
points of the compass. When Forbes offered
to stand down in favor of a Government of
all three parties, Coates gave as one of his
reasons for declining the inclusion of Labor-
ites in the scheme. Replying to a recent
memorial from Wellington business men, who
urged a Reform-United fusion, he suggested
that he would have found it easier to agree
had the Labor party been brought in. Finally
he has suggested a national economic com-
mittee representing all parties, which has
been set up; but he discourages hopes that
this is a step towards a National Govern-
ment, which is what Forbes has been advo-
cating all along.
JOHN: “I’m cutting it out. Aussie. I have
to; and if you take my advice you’ll
do the same.”
Archbishop Dijhig, whose opiuious on most
subjects are regarded with great respect by
his feilow-Queenslanders, has come out with
a proposal that the Government should sell
its railways. The question is who would
buy them, for they have been losing at the
rate of over a million a year ever since the
Labor blight descended on the State, though
before, that they earned a profit. Many of
the lines are unlikely in any circumstances
to .be paying propositions for many years,
especially as they are placed at the service
of. pastoralists at losing rates for shifting
stock in time of drought. It is problematical
whether any private control would consent
to make sacrifices of the kind. Old Tom
Mcllwraith had a great scheme for a laud-
grant railway from Roma to the Gulf of
Carpentaria, but Queensland turned it down.


SOCIETY
and it's
prited with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Solomon Dry”: The story is being told
by ex-G.-G. Stonehaven as among the treas-
ures he gathered in Australia. He was
travelling by train, and Stanley Bruce, then
Priminister, was with him. At a refresh-
ment-room station Stanley asked the G.-G.
in the language of tiie country if he could
stop one, and the G.-G. invited him to find
out. So Bruce bowled off for the desired
whisky and soda, and left the door open.
Presently a country man drifted along, and
seeing an opening pushed in. The G.-G.
didn’t say it was a reserved carriage—just
moved up, and the two started a yarn. Bruce
returned with the w. and s., and in answer
to an interrogative look the G.-G. nodded
that the visitor was all right. So Stanley
asked him if he would like a drink. He
ANOTHER MISUNDERSTANDING.
“He’s been bothering me to marry him for six months:
“Gee! Fancy a man having the hide to suggest such a thing to a girl!"
would—beei\ And off the lion, steward
trotted. Then the G.-G. thought it was
time to begin making himself known. “Do
you,know who that gentleman is?” he ask'd.
Cockspur hadn’t a notion. “Well, that’s the
Right Honorable Stanley Melbourne Brace
™o°g sST sa£
Mm Anting on two”old mongrels like „s I”
“Swishtail”: In a Sydney divorce case last
week the petitioner, a bank clerk, admitted
that a domestic rumpus had ended in Ins
mitfin 2* wifo the bed and giving
her a g good ” As the lady cross-
petitioned for cruelty, among other things, it
is a fair assumption that she regarded this
form of marital correction as over the odds.
Punishment inflicted on the portion of the
anatomy in question is probably going out of
fashion, except in the case of children of
tender age. Yet it lingered long in English
public schools, where, in the early part of
last century, there were some noted head-
masters who had unruly boys, well on the
way to manhood, “horsed” and flogged in
batches, wielding the birch themselves with
right good will. In my time, 50 years ago,
the cane was not infrequent. Prepostors were
authorised to use it as well as masters; even
the headmaster (later a venerable bishop) was
expected to employ the birch in extra-special
cases. These were rare, about one a year
at most, and the punishment was held to
lie more in the indignity than the actual
pain. By an ancient tradition the delin-
quent was entitled to claim the instrument
of correction, specially prepared for the
occasion, after it had done its work. I
wonder if embryo bishops are expected to
do any birching nowadays.
“Larrapinta”: Yes, all sorts and condi-
tions are to be found “on the wallaby” these
times. In one trip of 200 miles I gave lifts
to a lawyer, who repaid me with advice as
to the best ways of dodging payment of
debts; two young women in men’s clothing,
in pre-depresli days chorus-girl and hair-
dresser (they enlivened the journey with
songs and were the most cheerful souls I
met) : a young South African who had held a
second mate’s job on a steamer —he sa’d he
was on the track because he had £l2O in
the N.S.W. Savings Bank, and produced a
passbook to prove it; a man who had won
the D.F.G. and owned a big city motor
garage; and one, only one, real old-time
sundowner. He cursed the hordes of amateur
swaggies roundly, and said they had spoiled
his profession.
* * * *
“Bodega Bill”: “When bar trade slumps,”
said an observant friend of mine, “Bung puts
on a bigger and better counter-lunch; in good
times no such incentive to patronage is
needed.” It may be so, though 1 can’t say
I’ve noticed it; 1 fancy that the huge and
appetising cold joints, borne in at noontide
to be fallen on by buyers of drinks, dis-
appeared before the war and are unlikely to
return. But I do notice that enterprising
city publicans have launched out in a new and
possibly a better direction, a feature of their
bars being a corner where Welsh-rabbits,
curried eggs and various other delicacies are
deftly compounded by white-capped cooks
and sold (not given away) across the counter
as excellent adjuncts to foaming tankards.
Restaurant proprietors are the sufferers,
but anyhow the licensed victualler deserves
better of the public when he victuals
at regular meal-times as well as slaking
tliirsts from morn till eve. The gratuitous
counter-lunch is a good deal of a delusion in
that' it mostly arrives at eleven, before a
snack is wanted, and at five, when it merely
takes an edge off the dinner appetite.
;J; i'fi
“S.T.S.”: The self-appointed guardians of
our morality lately made a difficulty about
letting through the Customs a new novel,
“All Passion Spent.” The words aroused a
dark suspicion that the book might be im-
proper, Examination, of course, showed that
it is just what the Miltonian title implies, the
outlook on life of a dear old soul who is
past all that kind of thing.
“John D.”: One of the pretty things that
old hands of Hobart still gossip about is
the mysterious disappearance of the head
of Billv Lannay, the last male aboriginal
of the Speck, from the morgue: the body was
left behind. For upwards of half a century
local rumor has credited Dr. Crowtlier, just
dead, with knowing more about that hos-
pital scandal” of 1860 than he. ever told. It
now appears that a comparison °t.
raises a healthy doubt as to whether Goctm
Ted, ’ as we always called him, was in *- '
mama at the time of th p«'7 h > , ‘' at ‘ o ”OS. n .
dent’oif Hobart Tani Wpremler
ther was 28 years old ; and tliongh he had
been for a A 1 n +l IL g <, t t i ll os
medical student >r^wv h « at the
pital, he was piobabiy nis in
tlie Gold Land a year or so before the “scan-
dal” occurred. After walking Guy’s and
three or four other British hospitals he
underwent his medical course at Aberdeen,
and then practised for six years in Lincoln-
shire before returning to Tasmania in 18.8
or 1879. Apparently he had been absent
from Tas. for at least 11 years, and could
not have been on hand when unauthorised
persons stole King Billy’s ethnologically
valuable top-piece from Hobart morgue for
a London museum.
“Lex”: A Sydney storekeeper has just
had an expensive reminder of the Law’s
jealousy of its pre-
rogatives. The
husband of a lady-
customer had owed
him £5 for --
months. She came
into the store, and
the owner, craftily
simulating friend-
ship, persuaded her
to take out a cash
order and pay 3s.
deposit. Having
got her 3s. he tore
up the order and
claimed the game
and rub., so to
speak. Whereupon
she produced a
card he hadn’t sus-
pected of being in
the pack—a prose-
cution for theft. A
magistrate said ‘‘£s
fine and £2 10s.
costs, or 15 days.”
Shopkeepers who
take a high hand
with customers
nearly always fall
in. In London re-
cently a tailor wlv i
was owed £2Q-od< 1
confiscated £5 on
account while the
debtor was being
tried on. Theft. A
jeweller who had
tried to get £lO7
out of a young
woman for goods
supplied, and
failed, lost his
temper and
wrote to her em-
ployer using the
wo r d “c he a t.”
Libel. Another
jeweller locked a
suspect up and
sent for the police,
only to find there
was an explanation
of his prisoner’s
conduct. Illegal
i m p r i s o liment.
Traders need to be
more careful than
most people, as
confidence men
make a practice of
being “wronged” in
shops with a view to blackmail.
:jc ;i: ' ; i ; ***
“Clerk”: One Australian at any rate
wasn’t interested in the Mungana case. Late
on the Saturday on which the jury was con-
sidering its verdict a man rang up the
Melbourne 3LO studio and asked whether
anything was known of the “result of the
Mungana trial.” “Sorry,” replied the girl on
the switchboard, “but we never give race
results over the telephone.”
“Schinus M.”: The Director of the Svdney
Botanic Gardens, in a recent talk on things
arboreal, remarked that there had been four
epidemics of tree-planting in the
city’s parks and gardens. The
species successively favored have
been the Moreton Bay lig, the
pepper-tree, the camphor laurel
and the Canary Island palm, and
the speaker showed no pro-
nounced enthusiasm for any of
them, while concedin''- to the first
the saving grace' of being a
native of Australia. The pepper-
tree epidemic must have spread
the most widely, for there are
few places where you aren’t
liable to encounter that importa-
tion from Peru, via California.
Its ornamental qualities are
nothing much, unless it has con-
stant attention ; its rare merit
lies in its ability to grow and
have its straggly being wnere no
other tree will. The tree-planters
in the Westralian goldfields set-
tlements in the early days soon
found out that; even when holes
had to be blasted for its recep-
tion in the most arid surround-
ings, the pepper would struggle
into treehood somewhere and
confound the oessimists. I doubt
if Peru has given ns any greater
boon, unless it is the Cape goose-
berry. which came this way via
South Africa.
* * * *
“Country Ped.”: Recently I
have had the opportunity of
comparing the children living in
a wet coastal district of Nie-
to ria with those of the northern
part of the State. The southern
children drawl in their speech,
th°ir movements are slow, they are not in-
ventive at games, and they are quieter all
round, though not dull by any means. L
believe this slowing up is due to the
fact that their district gets comparatively
little bright sunshine and none of the brac-
ing effect of high altitudes. Children of
the north are ever so much brighter and
more energetic: for alertness, both mental
and physical, give me the children who get
plenty 'of strong sunlight, particularly the
lithe, brown, active youngsters of the dusty
Mallee.
"Sinnik”: Doctors and lawyers are for-
bidden to advertise, yet many, do so more
persistently than the . professional untouch-
ables (mostly obscure dentists' and police-
court attorneys) who frankly hire press
space. Cricketing, golfing, tennis and foot-
ball-playing medicoes have been a problem to
the B.M.A. for years. Something might
have been attempted in regard to them but
for an odd fact. Doctors are more likely
to lose than gain professionally by figuring
in the sporting sections of the newspapers.
The very enthusiasts who applaud their feats
of strength go, as a rule, to some studious
,C 3 subject when it comes to having a diag-
nosis made or an operation performed. Law-
yers are different. They usually get into the
public eye via political or reformist plat-
forms, or by associating themselves with the
innumerable little societies whose fussy acti-
vities are good for a stick or two in the
RICH DISCONNECTIONS.
“Disgraceful for a woman to carry on like that! And quite well
connected probably!”
“Yes, but much better disconnected. She got a divorce from a
squatter while he was still rich.”
dailies when real news is short. And they
make friends with gossip-hounds, ravenous
for details, however blithering, about those
whose names have appeared in the news
columns. This kind of publicity is as useful,
professionally, to barristers as sporting pub-
licity is injurious to doctors. The more
most citizens read about an advocate the
readier they are to hang on his words when
they meet him as jurors. Why doesn’t the
Bar Council act? For the reason that the
B.M.A. doesn’t. Its powers arc mythical.
Thousands of doctors don’t belong to . the
8.M.A., and no publicity-chasing barrister
gives the Bar Council a thought when a free
advt. offers.
“Oxmead”: According to Justice Long-
Innes, a N.S.W. Judge is debarred not only
by etiquette but by express enactment from
leaving the Bench and returning to the Bar
(B. 26/8/31) ; it is a minor point that he
would find it difficult to pick up his
old practice if he were allowed. It has
been attempted in other States, with dis-
couraging results. A little over 30 years
ago, one Pennefather, who was Aicorney-
General in the W’estralian Cabinet of the day,
got himself appointed an acting-Judge, on
the definite understanding that the job would
be a permanent one as soon as an
imminent vacancy occurred. But the Bar
disliked Pennefather and protested pointedly,
and another Government arrived which
refused to confirm the appointment. The
luckless jurist had to return to practice, and
found that he had dropped the bone for
the shadow. I recall another Judge who
stepped down from the Bench of his own
volition for a very different reason —to
return to Parliament, in which he had once
cut a notable figure. This was Thomas
TJpington, of Cape' Colony, a verv brilliant
and witty Irishman. The period was iust
before the Boer War. and Upington’s
patriotism did him credit; he had always
been a good friend of the Cape Dutch, and
he thought he might do something to avert
the dash if he could become a Minister of
the Crown again. But he failed, and he
didn’t live nper the ■war began.
a • » • • •
“Devlin”: An Australian Judge who re*
turned to the Bar to practise was Noel, for
many years on the North Queensland cir-
cuit of the District Court. Another was
Real, of the Queensland Supreme Court.
When the Act enforcing compulsory retire-
ment at a fixed age became law, Real,
who was something of an eccentric, took it
bitterly to heart. “Too old, am I?” he told
a party of legal friends who farewelled him.
“I’ll (I—d well show them.” And in a few
days he was at the Bar table mixing it with
the best of them.
“Ex-Loco.”-: Touching the careless de-
struction of old records (B 19/V3l) . dur-
ing the war years.the Victorian railway
authorities, in their zeal for economy,
utilised paper from their archives, printed
on stationery that is seldom seen nowadays.
I have written a requisition for a new coal
shovel on the reverse side of a venerable
document relating to the construction of the
Bendieo or Geelong railway line. Not very
valuable perhaps, but how many records that
really were valuable have gone the same
way ?
EDWARD DYSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
NVliat memories cluster round his name and
cling!
What scenes he lit and limned to grip you
fast, .
\rtist whose words could on a canvas ning
With cunning strokes and vivid coloring
Those pictures of the past I
How oft with him through that familiar
ground,
With trench and pothole seamed and
scarred, we strayed;
Followed the “Old Whim Horse” upon his
round,.
Or heard (in chapel) the tempestuous sound
“When Brother Petree Prayed”!
The old-time diggings, with their glory gone,
lie conjured up once more for all to see.
And when those fields in splendor blazed
and shone,
Say. was there any found or worked thereon
A richer vein than lie?
’Mid crumbling shacks, where batteries are
dumb.
Still in our minds “The Golden Shanty'
stands:
Still in the silences we catch the hum,
Rich with the argot of the street and slum,
Of Spats’s “F'aet’ry ’Ands.”
No keener and no kindlier eyes were bent
Upon the tides of life that past him rolled;
Toll of the moving show that came and went,
lie took, for wit and mirth and merriment,
And touched the dross with gold.
He gave us tales that dance and rhymes that
ring.
His was the sunshine that the clouds dis-
pelled.
The shaft that wounds and tears lie scorned
to wing.
A satirist, perhaps. And yet no sting
His gentle satire held.
Out of the gloom lie lit with many a gleam,
Out of the day whereon the shadows close,
Out of the realm where once he reigned
supreme,
Into the sleep that knows nor stir nor dream
The Master Craftsman goes.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Death-adder Minor” : “Parking” is defined
in the Motor Traffic Regs, as “the standing,
or waiting, on a public street of a vehicle
not actually engaged in taking un or setting-
down passengers or goods.” No doubt the
idea is to prevent a motorist from staying in
the same place for more than a few minutes.
But the Avords admit of another interpreta-
tion. It is possible to spend hours in “taking
up goods.” Consider a shopper in a big
general store who “takes up goods” in half
a dozen departments for subsequent loading
on to his car in a “No Parking” area.
Apropos, Sydney traffic Hops are surpris-
ingly amenable to argument on such lines. I
came bowling up to one at a crowded traffic
intersection without seeing him, and he
motioned me enragedly to the kerb. When he
had worked off some of his passion I asked
what I was to be charg'd with. “Disre-
garding my signal.” “But I didn’t. That’s
why I’m here.” Nor had I “driven to the
public danger,” which was his alternative
string. I had stopped the car with ease. He
had had a fright, but that isn’t a traffic
offence, and I satisfied him on the point
eventually. Tins isn’t propaganda in favor
of engaging Sydney policemen in controversy
on fine dialectical points; onlv a hint that
the desperate enterprise may sometimes suc-
ceed. In London it never does.
* % * *
“Cap’n Flint”: New Guinea waters saw
a curious case recently w’hen a merchant
steamer making her way about the outlying
islands chanced on a Japanese junk, which,
with a retinue of smaller craft, was work-
ing the reefs for trochus and other shell.
The junk bolted, being fitted with a motor
engine—-thus do East and West approximate,
after all—but was eventually captured by
the British steamer. There seems to be a
delicate point of Admiralty law here. It is
very doubtful if any ordinary vessel, such as
that which captured the Jap poacher, has
any right to take such arbitrary action. The
THE TRUTH OF IT.
“What is the most frequent cause of divorce, d’you believe?”
“Oh, just marriage, I think.”
private citizen who suspects another of delin-
quency is likely to fare badly if he runs him
in on the spur of the moment. On present
shownng the action of the captors of the
Jap poacher comes suspiciously close to
piracy on the high seas, unless the ship car-
ried letters of marque, which is improbable.
* * *
“Quinn’s Post”: That hydraulic-sluicing
idea of attacking the Turkish trenches in
Silt Valley on Gallipoli (B. 26/8,/’8l) was
excellent in its way, but the expert
who voiced it forgot one thing—there was
no natural head of water. No _ pumping
machinery ever made could have raised suffi-
cient water to wash down the opposite hill-
side. Even if the water could have been lifted
from the sea a vast reservoir would have had to
be constructed at a higher level in order to
get the necessary force. The higher level
was not handy in this instance, and if
it had been Jacko’s vastly superior artil-
lery would have made short work of any
attempt to establish the necessary storage
tank.
$ $ * $
“Light Horse”: Some recent investiga-
tions in the neighborhood of Gaza, a place
which quite a few Australians will recall
with interest, seem to have settled the ques-
tion of who it was that brought the horse
out of Asia to the shores of the Mediter-
ranean. Excavations have shown that the
Hyksos (or Shepherd) kings, the Semitic
people who supplied Egypt with a dynasty
2000 years before the Christian era. used
Gaza as an outpost of their advance, just as
many another nation has done since. Tombs
opened by the exploring party contain horses
buried with their masters, the first instance
of tlm k : nd noted in that part of the world.
The Hyksos kings came down through Pales-
tine. It is interesting to reflect that the
country which has given us the bookmaker
is also largely responsible for the animal
which supports him.
* * * *
“10-2-4”: I have been wondering where
Norman Lindsay’s statue will go. It’s a
safe bet that the movement to give him one
will be started within a few days
of his death. Why? Because he
is pre-eminently the type of cele-
brity they erect statues to in Aus-
tralia. It isn’t so much that his
name is known. So is Mr. Bruce’s,
yet Mr. Bruce isn’t likely to get
a statue. Lindsay, like Lawson,
stands for a popu.ar social cause
• —opposition to censors, wowsers,
temperancers, “S. M. Herald” cor-
respondents who sign themselves
“For God and Empire,” and self-
righteousness generally. It is also
safe to prophesy that when a huge
amount has been subscribed by
Bohemians, hard drinkers, irre-
ligionists and disloyalists—most
of them with the vaguest ideas
regarding their hero's claims to
immortality—a horde of old gents.,
such as K.B.E.’s. Boy Scout chief-
tains and British Empire League
presidents, will suddenly slam on
their toppers, rush from their
clubs and dominate the proceed-
ings. They always do. I wouldn’t
be surprised if the Presbyterians
insisted on having the statue in or
near one of their kirks. Lindsay’s grand-
father was a missionary from the North of
Ireland, which is how he comes to be the
aggressive proselytiser he is.
sN * 3= *
“Schipperke” : The controversy about the
desirability of the Alsatian as a canine immi-
grant having blazed up again (B. 26/8/’3l),
let me say that the defenders of tbe
German wolf-hound shut their eyes to
one essential point. Granted that the
Alsatian is a magnificent animal, a model
of strength and grace and watchfulness
and intelligence, and possibly of fidelity,
too, in the environment he occupied for
centuries; the trouble is that post-war
dog-fanciers have taken him out of that
environment and sought to make a show-
dog and a household pet of him. Quite
likely he was no more dangerous and no
less faithful than any other outsize in dogs,
and a great deal more useful than most,
when he worked hard all his days for a
shepherd master in the roughest surroundings
and on the hardest fare. Half the Alsatians
I see nowadays in Sydney are led about on
leashes for exercise, their natural occupa-
tion gone, and if their tempers and their
nerves have suffered —and the way they
strain at those leashes when other dogs are
in the offing is pretty clear proof of it—it
is their owners’ fault, not theirs. Their huge
frames need plenty of laborious work and
get none. They may become acclimatised
and inured to their mostly ornamental exist-
ence, and cease to go berserk when it
becomes monotonous; but it is going to take
a few generations.
* * ❖ ❖
“Hamer”: An allegedly haunted house in
Darling-hurst (Sydney) which was un-
occupied, except for the briefest periods, for
12 years has been restored to grace—
and tenants. A horrible murder conrnitted
there gave it its reputation, and although a
lot of people scoffed at the story of mys-
terious sounds that persisted in the dead of
night the courage of those took the place
nuickly evaporated. Nobody stayed longer
than a week until a liard-up Digger laid the
ghost. He made a bargain with the agents
whereby he was to be allowed to doss there
free of charge, and to earn an honest penny
if he could find the cause of the manifesta-
tions. By his directions carpenters were set
to work blocking up holes in the roof and
nailing down loose boards, on which the
draught created by these holes played with
eerie effect —especially when the noises of
passing motor-cars had died down. And
now the place has been tenanted and sub-
tenanted for four months by occupants who
sleep soundly o’ nights.
SOMETHING SOON REMEDIED.
MISS MAID: “Thirteen children! I’m afraid the place won’t suit me.”
MRS. MISTRESS: “You needn’t be superstitious. Baby is nearly twelve months old.”
“Shop”: There was one variety of. war-
time catapult that hasn’t been mentioned.
I met the operator at Ypres, a brawny Scot,
and learned that the profits from it .often
eclipsed his meagre army pay. It was
fashioned like the ordinary shanghai, with
heavy rubber bands; its use was merely to
send fed-up troops from the line into the
back areas. The ammunition consisted of
tiny fragments of jagged h.-e., sharp enough
to be forced at close range through army
“strides” into the flesh. To ensure maxi-
mum efficiency, I gathered, most of hi.s vic-
tims managed to be “wounded” in the pro-
cess of tying up their boots. Though the
lumps could usually have been dragged out
on the spot, fears of tetanus and poisoning
generally made an M.O. clear the sufferer
out to dressing-stations or rest-camps till
the wound had healed, which seldom hap-
pened before the battalion had been with-
drawn from the line.
“Four Stripes”: As a retired quarter-
master-sergeant may I be permitted to drop
a teor ov<w the cabled announcement that
the modern British
Army has so fallen from
the standards of the
men who fought at
Minden as to prefer
buns and lemonade to
beer in the regimental
canteens? I can recall
the glorious days when
Thomas Atkins, horse,
foot and guns, came
into the canteen after
evening cookhouse had
been cleaned up and
stayed there until he
was shoved out at First
Tost —those of him who
weren’t carted off to
the clink. The proce-
dure was that four
should club together
and buy a gallon of
beer at a penny a pint
—that meant that every
man of the four was
sure of a quart if he
kept a careful eye on
the other fellow. The
•beer was served in a
single utensil closely
resembling a tin dipper ;
it passed from hand to
hand among the syndicate. With a little
soap and water it was possible for a canteen
sergeant to make “40 gallons out of e v ery
cask,” as Kipling notes. I fear those days
have gone for ever.
* * * *
“Elderly Infant”: As one who sees as much
of the handwriting, of‘the people as anyone
in Australia I am moved to remark that the
art of fine penmanship seems to be nearly
extinct. Possibly the typewriter, is to blame.
Forty years ago, when I put my foot on the
lowest rung of the ladder of the Law, every
clerk, and especially every law clerk, was a
good writer—it was the first essential of his
calling—and the respect of very old clerks for
this branch of their profession amounted
almost to idolatry. I still cherish a recollec-
tion of an errand to the Lands Office at
Christchurch (M.L.). where I had to inter-
view the chief records clerk, an old johnny
who might have stepp-d out of “Pickwick.”
He was scaled at a table the legs of winch
wore propped up by neatly-sawn lengths
of timber so that he might be able to
op rate on Ins enormous tomes from the alti-
tude an immensely high s f ool. H'is tailed
coat hung down behind like a magpie’s
steering-gear, and Gtere were evidences on his
vest of ao add>olnn to snuff. Before him
was a brightly polished pewter inkpot, into
which he regularly dipped a huge quill pen.
Having completed a line to his satisfaction,
crossing the “t’s” and dotting the “i’s” last
with an indescribable flourish, he condes-
cended to give me his attention, Learning—
for he was an inquisitive. and talkative old
gentleman—-that I was a neophyte to the arts
and mysteries to which he had devoted a life-
time, he perched me on his stool, gave me a
clean sheet of paper and bade me write my
name, permitting me to do this with a steel
pen, to which, he said, with an air of gentle
superiority, I was probably more accustomed
than a quill. He pointed out, I think, seven
faults in my modest signature, which he
adjured me to overcome—if he had said “by
prayer and fasting” I wouldn’t have been sur-
prised. And then, with the air of a high
priest drawing the veil of the temnle. ht
opened the huge volume in which he hat
been inditing and invited me to admire the
contents —page after page of marvellous
copper-plate-like caligraphy, unmarred by
blot or erasure. Happy must have been the
man who could derive such pride and pleasure
from his job.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Maori member Te Tom.
had tears in his voice when he referred
in the M.L. Parliament to a slipping
from grace of certain of his compatriots.
Te Tomo visited the Ratana settlement
recently to see if the wheat-growing,
which was so successful last year, was
being persevered with. He got a nasty-
jolt when he saw a racecourse where previ-
ously the golden grain had waved, and young
Ratanaites standing up in the stirrups and
urging their mounts to breakneck speed.
“And I was sad,” he continued, “because
racing is a fair way of getting people down.”
There were some expressions of mock in-
credulity from European members, but Te
Tomo sadly assured them that he knew what
he wrs talking about; £BOOO which he and
his brother received from the Wellington
Marawatu Railway Co. for land had gone
phutt at the game.
“Brilliant Deeps”: One Dr. Lindworsky.
in a recent book on psychology, touches on
what he describes as the little-noted fact
that the sudden cessation of noise will
awaken a sleeper as effectively as noise
itself will prevent another sleeper from
enjoying his 40 winks. There never was a
better instance of this than Charters Towers
(Q.) used to furnish. Many of the mines
and batteries are in the heart of the town,
and both worked all round the clock, save
for Sunday. It was notorious that the resi-
dent of the goldfields centre, after sleeping
like a top all the week, would wake with
a start at midnight on Saturday when the
stampers were hung up. Similarly, the new-
comer to the place, who had been unable to
get at grips with Morpheus for whole nights
together because of the infernal din, at once
sank into a refreshing slumber.
* * * *
“Long 45”: That discussion about Wild
West shooting (B. 19/8/’3l) recalls a
Colorado incident related to the writer by
an individual who said lie saw it. He had
started sheep-raising in that part of the
world in company with another young Eng-
lishman who was noted for humorless im-
perturbability. Sheepmen were not popular
with the cattle-raisers round about, and a
nuarrel was soon picked, the humorless one
b'ing singled out for the first experiment.
He was not nearly as slow as he looked,
however, and boat the other fellow to the
trigger, wounding him badly. “My God.”
cried the stricken cowboy, writhing on the
floor. “I’m shot!” His adversary leaned
o'-"r him in mild surprise. “Shot?” he said.
“Why. exactly: that was the bally idea, old
top, wasn’t it?”
LONG JOHN NO-SILVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The ‘New York Times,’ in an appreciative article
on Australia’s conversion loan, notes that ‘even the
obstreperous Mr. Lang has had to learn meekness
and to come back, hat in hand, to the Loan
Council.’ ”
“Come back to dooty,” said the long sea-cook
Enshrined for aye in R.L.S.’s book,
In answer to the captain’s querying look,
When all his deep-laid schemes had gone
aglee.
“Back to my dooty.” And therewith became,
Piratic enterprises done, the same
Obsequious seaman that he used to be,
Passing the bacon round, just as of yore.
“Ah !” was the skipper’s comment —nothing
more.
I see that Treasure Island cave again
In that lone speck upon the Spanish main;
The squire, the doc., Gunn, Hawkins, all are
plain,
And once again I glimpse the firelight’s
glow
Upon the chests Long John had hoped to get,
All careless of the cost in b'ood and sweat,
Pieces of eight! And how was he to know
He wouldn’t make that precious cache his
own,
Until the day he found the doubloons flown?
“Back to my dooty.” Well, ’twas only biz,
And back there comes another John to his,
Wiser perforce, for where the treasure is
There will the heart be also, Scripture
tells.
And chastened, too, the same as Silver was,
The reason incontestably because
There was no chance of any money else.
Back to your duty, mutineering banned,
You amble (when it’s failed you' hat in
hand.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


A BELT without a
BUCKLE in beautifully
plaited Kangaroo Hide
An original idea, thought out
by a bushman, that is already
very popular. The ordinary
buckle is displaced by two rings,
which grip the end of the belt
and may be fastened exactly
where you wish. Made from
Plaited Kangaroo Hide in
various cunningly-woven pat-
terns. Send your order to-day,
as stocks are limited, and we
expect to sell quickly.
Price, each
12/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET . BRISBANE.
e
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Peitu, Hobart
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
premiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private nospitals,
varying in amount according to the sum assured, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) lii th' °* J OSs °‘ f Ve or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (6) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity,
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some September birthdays:—
S. Aus. ex-Speaker and Minister Laffer, 05, and
G. D. Delprat, 75, on Ist; Archbishop Duhig
(Bris.), 00, and Prof. Brereton (Syd.), 60, on 2nd;
Brig.-Gen. C. H. Brand, 58, and historian Arthur
\V. Jose, 08, on 4th; Melb. barrister A. D. Ellis,
Litt.D., 40, on sth; artist Charles Nuttall, 59, on
6th; Q. Treasurer W. H. Barnes, 73, J. C. Stewart
(Q. Senator in the first Fed. Parliament), 81, and
0. J. Dennis (“Sentimental Bloke”), 55, on 7th;
Bishop Coleman (Armidale), 44, on Bth; Bishop
Cecil Wilson (Bunbury), 71, Justice Piddington
(N.S.W.), 69, barrister P. V. Storkey, V.C., 40, and
Dr. J. M. Baldwin (Vic. Govt. Astronomer), 53, on
9th; Adelaide's - ex-Lud Mayor Lavington Bonython,
56, on 10th ; General Birdwood, 66, and Vic. Senator
J. F. Guthrie, 59, on 13th; Federal Opposition-
Leader J. A. Lyons, 52, Col. Percy Owen,
G 7, and Col, G. Hurry (ex-M.H.R. for Bendigo), 63,
on 15th; John C. Morphett (formerly Clerk of S.
Aus. Parliaments), 87, on 16th; Bishop McGuire
(Townsville), 50, Prof. Walter Murdoch (W.A.),
57, and Australian actor Otto Heggie (in U.S.A.),
54, on 17th; Prime Minister Scullin, 55, Justice
McArthur (Vic.), 70, Commonwealth Railways
Commissioner Gahan, 50, and Melb. architect W. A.
M. Blackett, 58, on 18th; ex-Vic. Premier Wm.
McPherson, 66, and Major-Gen. Edwin Tivey, 66, on
19th; Prof. Nicholson (Syd.), 56, on 20th; Philip
Charley, 68, on 21st; Major-Gen. Brudenell White,
55, on 23rd; Bishop Snowdon Hay (Hobart), 64,
and knight Sam Hordern, 55, on 24th; Billy Hughes,
67, on 25th; Rev. Dr. Chas. Strong (Australian
Church), 87, on 26th; Chief Justice Murray (S.
Aus.), 68, and Josiah Symon, K.C. (S. Aus.), 85,
on 27th; 11. W. Gepp, 54, and Prof. Oxer (Ormond
Col.), 63, on 28th; Canon Wray (Wangaratta), 67,
Brig.-Gen. T. Griffiths, 66, artist Rupert Bunny, 67,
and his brother-in-law Donald Mackinnon, 72, on
29th; Brig.-Gen. W. Grant (Q.), 61, and ex-W.A.
Senator Needham, 57, on 30th.
William Thomas Ely, who became a full-
blown N.S.W. Minister in the re-shuffle of
portfolios that followed the resignation of
“Ironbark Andy” Lysaght, is having a much
easier time than when, as Baddeley’s under-
study, he was perpetually being called upon
to explain to unemployed deputations why
the Lang Government, despite all its glow-
ing pre-election promises, could find no work
for them. Ely is now 7 Minister for Health,
and though hospitals are, of course, very
badly hit in the existing depression, the depu-
tations they send to him are more polite
and less insistent than the ones he had pre-
viously been dealing with. Also, he is hoping
W. T. ELY, now N.S.W. Minister for
Health.
that some of the money from the State
lottery will come his way. The Minister
first entered politics as one of the three
members for Parramatta in 1920. Since
1927 he has represented Granville. He is
a journalist by profession, and, like Tom
Mutch and Vol Molesworth, has been pre-
sident of the N.S.W. branch of the A.J.A.
Hugh Mahon, who died at Ringwood
(Yie.) last week, had lived so long in retire-
ment that few outside his own circle could
have given his whereabouts. He returned
to Ireland after his sensational expulsion
from the House of Reps, in 1920. but his
stay there was not a long one. Mahon, who
was a compositor by trade, had some con-
nection with the Parnellite movement of the
'eighties; he arrived in Australia with one of
the Redmond brothers, and settled down to
press work in Sydney. Ten years later
he went to Westralia, made his mark on
the goldfields as a forcible and occasionally
ruthless journalist, and appeared in the first
House of Reps, as member for Cool-
gardie, having signed the Labor platform
just before polling day. He remained in
Parliament, with a couple of breaks, for 20
years; was the first Labor Minister from
Westralia, and held office in two later
Cabinets. Then came the outburst that cost
him his seat. “Mr. Dooley” once found some
faint extenuation for an over-zealous com-
patriot on the ground that “p!kes was hid
in his cradle,” and something very similar
might have been said in Mahon’s case. On
most subjects he was rather a cold and dis-
passionate speaker, and lie gave few points
away in an election campaign, though he was
frequently handicapped by ill-health. He
was 73 at the close.
John Butters, whose name fell unexpect-
edly into the list of trustees of the N.S.YV.
Government Savings Bank, has to thank his
JOHN BUTTERS, N.S.W. Savings Bank
Trustee.
good friend Hugh Denison for another bless-
ing. Denison had been named as the probable
chairman; but when the “Sun” had to say
things about the proposed reconstruction,
Denison thought it best to stand down.
Butters, who came from the Tasmanian
Hydro-electric Works to preside over the
Canberra Commission, was rather at a loose
end when that job was finished : but Denison
got him on to the “Sun” board, and lately
put him on special organising work in con-
nection with the “Daily Telegraph.” Deni-
son picked up all sorts of new ideas while
he was Australian Commissioner in the
U.S.A.; hence probably Butters’s title in the
"Sun” office —"executive director.”
Mark Young, the comparatively unknown
among the trustees of the new N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Savings Bank, is the man who had
the long fight with the Commonwealth Bank.
He had been with the old Colonial until the
Commonwealth Bank started and he became
its first manager in Melbourne; afterwards
he was chief inspector. But he couldn't pull
with the other heads; and he was driven out.
The next three years he spent trying to get
an inquiry of some sort; in fact, he was still
hoping when his old friend Jim Scullin be-
came Prime Minister —Scullin had got his
first overdraft from Young: they both grew
up in Ballarat. But still nothing happened,
though the matter was several times men-
tioned in Parliament. Young's banking know-
ledge and his mental alertness and indepen-
dence are both unquestioned, and bis in-
tegrity never has been.
E. H. Angelo, the Westralian M.L.A. who
told a Sydney interviewer that i c a referen-
dum of his State were taken on the seces-
sion question 80 per cent, would be found in
favor of cutting the painter, is an amiable
and cherubic-looking legislator who has
represented Gascoyne for 14 years. The
family has had some hand in the mak-
ing of Westralian history. The last
generation supplied the little island of
Rottnest with its final “Governor.” This
was Colonel Angelo, of whom a hardy legend
persisted that when he was a nor’-west magis-
trate in the ’eighties, and the colony was
agog with the reports of gold discoveries in
widely scattered places, he dispatch- d a tele-
gram to the Government in Perth which
ran: “Boy at Mallina picked up stone to
throw at crow.” The message stopp d
abruptly there, either through the Colonel's
excitement or some inadvertence in the tele-
graph office, which caused a mystified official
to wire back: “What became of the crow?”
The explanation of the puzzle may b° found
in a sentence from Battye’s “History”: “In
1888 a lad named Withnell at Mallina found
a speck of gold in a stone he was about to
throw at a bird.”
Old Bulletin readers will recall W. E.
Carew, whose verses were published in the
’nineties —“Spell-oh,” reprinted in "The
Bulletin Reciter,” was the best-known of
them. “W. E. Carew” was in face W. E.
Carew Moss, a young railway engineer in
those days, engaged in construction work in
Victoria. Later he went to the West, where
he practised his profession for many years,
and was first Mayor of Narrogin. He died
lately, leaving a widow and rwo boys—Dr.
Gerald Moss, of Claremont, and Edmund, a
partner in the Perth law firm of Jackson,
Leake and Co.
The military experiences of Major Henry
Drummond Jackson, who died in Sydney last
week at 15. began in the Zulu War of 1879.
He was in the 90th Light Infantry, and
was one of those who marched to the relief
of Rorke’s Drift, where his brother was
killed. He served in the first Boer War; 18
years later, when Paul Kruger defied the
Empire, the Major did recruiting work in
Maoriland, and twice accompanied reinforce-
ments to the Cape, the second time in com-
mand of the 9tli M.L. contingent. He main-
tained his recruiting activities in the
Dominion all through the Great War.
James Brown, son of the man who fought
the great A. A. Co., which claimed a
poly of the coal business in N. S. Wales,
had four sons and ono daughter—John, who
di d a few months ago; Alec and William,
who predeceased John ; Mrs. Nairn, who died
on Saturday; and Stephen, still alive. And
there was not a chick among the lot of them.
John’s wife, got in Scotland, should never
have married; she had a mental breakdown
and died within a year or so of the wedding-
day. Mrs. Nairn was the wife of a clergy-
man, and he was a greater disaster still.
She never left for long the district in which
she was born, and where she was known
to everybody, and held in the. affection of
most: and she remained a diligent church-
worker to the end. in spite of the dreadful
jolt she received early in life. She was 82.
Walter F. Gale, who was chairman of the
Sydney Town Hall meeting which discussed
the Savings Bank’s future and has since
been the acknowledged spokesman for the
depositors, is better known as an astronomer
and popular talker on the stars. On the
night the big Town Hall meeting was held
Gale was down to speak to the inter-State
conference of physicists on his pet subject,
and a substitute had to be found. Though
he has specialised on the “popular” side of
astronomy his discoveries have been really
important: he found new “canals” in Mars
and quite a string of new comets. Before
he retired from the service six years ago he
was manager of the Moore-street branch of
the Savings Bank.
Forgan Smith didn’t have so much as
most of them to say iu the earlier stages of
the inter-State Labor Conference in Mel-
bourne, called to consider what the party
should do about the Prrmiers’ Plan; but
he came with a rush at the end, figured out
all the likel.v-to-be-accepred compromises and
moved the resolution which set out that it
would swallow this lot, but no more. Forgan
FORGAN SMITH.
Smith comes from a bit too far north in
Scot land to be as red as many Scots in
Australian Labor; and probably for the same
reason he is more addicted to gawf. He has
been in the Queensland Assembly for 16
years. Before that he was a house-painter
—which explains the skill with which he
used the whitewash brush in the conference
resolution before mentioned.
Amiable and tubby Jack Shiels, secretary
of the N.S.W. Milk Board and tipped as
its new chairman, once trod the Inky Way
as a freelance. Some of fiis black-and-white
drawings and stories were printed in The
Bulletin. As a civil servant he first drew
attention to himself as one of the senior
officers of the Commonwealth Prices Com-
mission during the war years. His adult
SHIELS, of the N.S.W. Milk Board.
interest in milk dates from 1921, when he
helped to fix the price as secretary of the
N.S.W. Profiteering Court, and conducted
an inquiry into milk distribution for the
N.S.W. Board of Trade. A dozen years ago
he was one of the bright young men of the
Labor movement; and, though he never got
a seat in Mncquarie-street—he ran unsuc-
cessfully for Western Suburbs in 1920 —he
helped to put a lot of less brilliant men
into the House.
Alberto Oreste Baglini, born in Pisa in
1875, has reached the end of a creditable
career in _ Brisbane after spending it
in occupations as diverse as mining and
preaching. _ He began at Charters Towers
as a miner on the Bonnie Dundee
and other well-known properties, and
the experience found him a place at Mt.
Morgan, which he left in 1916 with a
machine-gun section of the A.I.F. Return-
ing after the war, in which he was twice
wounded, he became underground manager
for the Mt. Morgan Co., but had to retire
with miner’s phthisis. For many years Baglini
was a Methodist local preacher, and he kept
up the good work when he found himself
physically unfitted for any other. He was
always a great favorite.
Syd Pratt, gen. secretary of the Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Association since 1919,
won’t have to uproot his home and shift to
Sydney, as the plebiscite of members resulted
in a declaration (439 votes to 297) in favor
of the retention of headquarters in Melb.
This has upset the decision of the Federal
Council of the A.J.A. at Brisbane last May.
Pratt was on an Adelaide daily when he was
selected 12 years ago to come to Melb. and
succeed George Brickhill.
Leslie Rees, who edited the “Black Swan”
magazine at the Westralian Uni. and won a
travelling scholarship which took him to
London, is getting on there. He has a steady
job as critic on the “Era.” the theatrical
paper which dates from 1837. To the July
“Theatre Arts Monthly” the young man con-
tributed an article on the Australian drama,
and he writes for the “Daily Telegraph” and
other solid newspapers.
Archibald McDougall, Tasmanian Rhodes
Scholar for 1924, has been appointed lec-
turer in law at the Victoria University of
Manchester. His father, Dugald McDougall.
has been Professor of Law at the University
of Tasmania since 1900; the son, like the
father, took a first-class in jurisprudence at
Oxford.
Mrs. Forrest, the Queensland poetess, lias
been made an honorary life member of the
Authors’and Artists’ Association of that State.
Mrs. Forrest’s first book of short stories was
published over 20 years ago, and she has
written a number of novels since then, but it
is by her graceful and colorful verse that
she is best known.
George Prendergast, who sits on the front
Ministerial corner bench in Vic. Assembly,
is beginning to look his age (77). He has
had a long innings in the House. First
returned in 1894 he has had only one break
—from 1897 to 1900, when Willie Watt was
preferred to him for N. Melbourne. For
17 years, with the briefest interval, he was
Opposition leader. His only taste of office
till 1924 (when he was Premier for four
months) was 13 days under George Elmslio
in 1913. He was Clrcf Sec. under Hogan
for 18 months (1927-28). George looks
forward to celebrating his 80th birthday in
the House, as the late E. H. Cameron and
Tommy Langdon did.


e
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The ' SWIRL. ’ FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 he Standard ©i Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dwnamlte
Gelisrnite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fu9e
Detonators
Cartridges
Make a Will
and appoint as your Executor a corporate
body which for forty-four years has acted in
the capacity of Executor, Administrator,
Trustee, Attorney, etc., which can never die
or leave the country, and which offers the
utmost security for the funds of your Estate,
viz., Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION £ 40.540.000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
H. V. Douglass, Manager.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.
Net To
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
May, £ £ £ £
1921.. 351,331 15 p.c. = 341,108 10, z 23 2,962,483
1922.. 103.300 32 „ „ 92,054 11,246 2,973,729
Loss.
1923.. 106.086 Nil 2,867,643
Share premiums, £lBl2 .. .. 2,869,455
Profit.
1924.. 279,339 Nil 279,339 3,148,794
Share premiums, £73,477 .. .. 3,222,271
1925.. 372,307 5 p.c. = 123,614 248,693 3,470,964
1926.. 303,032 10 „ „ 208,771 34,261 3,505,225
1927.. 291,577 10 „ „ 268,771 22,806 3,528,031
1928.. 222,617 10 „ „ 268,771 3,481,877
1929.. 332,671 10 „ „ 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345,777
Share premiums, £120,000 .. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 161,890 3,627,667
1931.. 83,257 Nil 83,257 3,710,924
Profits include: 1924, £164,314 tax and law costs
recovered; 1925, £64,015 taxation recoveries; 1927,
£11,902 taxation refund.
The hold-up at Maitland, which affected the
1930 figures, was called off early in .the last
term, full supplies of coal became available
at lower cost, and the.forest of stacks at
the steelworks (Newcastle) began to belch
out smoke again. But the plant slowed
down as public loan money gave out and
slackness in the construction and other trades
reduced the demand for iron and steel pro-
ducts. Prices were lowered; but the gain
to the consumer was more than offset by
the sales tax. Also, the Government insisted
on 48 hours’ pay for 44 hours’ work.
The slip in the year’s sales plus products
on hand (£2,358,868) was £1,039,998, of
which £918.043 was offset by savings in exes.
(£2,034,116), leaving the profit on working-
account £121,955 lighter at £324.752. The
contraction in returns from investments
(£140,784) was £18,883. The £465,536 that
thus came into the p. and 1. account went
mostly in this way:—
1929. 1930. 1931.
Depreciation .. .. £417,592 £256.696 £232,752
Office and other exes... 61,854 64.756 59,868
Debenture interest . . 81,094 73,033 64,659
Income tax . . .. 45,710 50,000 25,000
£606,250 £444,485 £382,279
That left the net result £78,633 shy of the
previous year’s at 2.7 p.c. on capital as
against 5.4, 12.3, 8.2, 10.8, 11.2, 15.2 and
11.3 p.c. pack to 1924, and shareholders again
went hungry.
As in the previous year only one of the
three blast furnaces was in operation, and
that af. reduced pressure. Production of pig
iron (185,680 tons) fell away only 1837 tons,
but there was a continuous shrinkage in the
out-turn of blooms, billets, rails, beams and
merchant bars, etc.
1929. 1930. 1931.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Open hearth (steel ingots) 351,146 245,302 192,921
Blooms and billets . . 332.358 233.728 181,982
28in. mill .. .. 211,684 161.022 111,655
18in. mill .. . . 94,932 55,872 56,381
12in. and Bin. mills . . 61,279 45.701 23,038
Rod mill .. . . 84,289 67,745 39,677
Fishplates . . . . 5,499 2,042 2,493
Steel foundry .. . . 22,913 20,627 17,175
Direct metal foundry. . 5,649 3,601 2,694
Coke 318,000 129,109 173,475
The new Wilputte coke-ovens, installed at a
cost of over £1,000,000 and paid for mainly
out of earnings, were blown in during
November, but only part of No. 2 battery
has been in steady commission. Large sav-
ings are expected when the plant is in full
swing; much will depend upon the market-
ing of the by-products, demand for which
has been curtailed by slackness in road-
making, etc.
During the year £193.116 was knocked off
the amount coming to sundry creditors, and
£127,700 off the debenture debt, which has
been reduced by £1,099,300 since 19z3: —
Paid All Other
May, Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Liabilities.
1918.. 472,402 2,760.181 901,700 801,730
1919.. 2,100,000* 2,255.280* 848.600 742,253
1923.. 2,455.048 2,867.643 1,962,200 598.309
1925.. 2.687,708 3,470.964 1,702.300 675.701
1927.. 2,687,708 3,528,031 1,518,600 903,751
1928.. 2,687,708 3,481,877 1,262,400 784,443
1929.. 2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005.336
1930.. 2,987,708 3,627,667 990,600 922.469
1931.. 2,987,708 3,710,924 862 900 729,353
* £1.500,000 of reserves capitalised.
At June 30 the floating debt was covered
by more or less liquids totalling £1,195,916,
including stock, etc., but not shares in other
cos (£1,105,478, up £13.339 during the
year). The more or less liquid surplus
(£466,563) was £21,425 lighter than at the
previous balance. On the steelworks £40,586
more was struck off than was spent:—
StocKs, Book Debts,
Mining Metals In-
Steel- Equip- and Steel vestments,
works. ment, etc. and Stores. Cash, etc.
1915.. £1,283,000 £532,038 £482,545 £350,513
Port Pirie Smelters sold.
1917.. 2,369,600 163,738 778,084 679,942
1920.. 3,974,846 83,388 1,117,306 862,470
1924.. 5,646,651 236,408 681,186 1,293,371
1926.. 6,723,558 224,744 608,577 1,816,408
1927.. 5,635,715 228,952 706,777 1,995,241
1928.. 5.623,013 363,908 553,275 1,639,826
1929.. 5,243,725 467,797 512,871 1,903,123
1930.. 5,532,218 458,224 586,129 1,916,467
1931.. 5,491.632 462,453 514,063 1,787,332
In addition, the mine, etc., figures at £35,4u6.
Completion of the tramway to the Iron
Baron leases added £4229 net to mining
equipment, etc.
The business has solid enough founda-
tions, strengthened by interlocking share
interests. The plant is highly efficient, low-
sulphur coking coal is drawn from the co.’s
own pits at Newcastle, while its supplies of
ironstone from Eyre’s Peninsula and lime-
stone from the hills by the Don River, near
Devon pert (Tas.), are cheapened by the
back-loading of coal. The co. is thus well
equipped to progress immediately conditions
permit. Incidentally, the old mine at the
Barrier having closed down, the co. has
joined in the hunt for. gold, but nothing worth
while has yet turned up.
On the market the fully-paid pound shares
have been fairly steady around 12s. 6d. for
the last 12 months.
Sargents, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 20,079 10 p.c. = 15,624 4,455 10.189
1922.. 26,566 121 „ ~ 20,313 -6,253 16,442
1923.. 16,728 10* „ „ 16,484 244 16,686
Profit on sale assets, £25.343 .. 42,029
1924.. 12,848 5 p.c. = 8,750 4,098 46,127
1925.. 34,328 15 „ „ 26,250 8,078 54,205
Profit on sale assets, £223 .. .. 54,428
1926.. 30,445 15 p.c. = 27,403 3,042 57.470
Profit on sale assets, £6550 .. .. 64,120
1927.. 38,859 15 p.c. = 32,686 6,173 70,293
Profit on sale assets, £6749 .; .. 77,042
1928.. 37,022 . 15 p.c. = 36,641 381 77,423
1929.. 40,007 15 „ „ 39,375 632 78,055
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
' £9908 68,147
1930.. 26,766 10 p.c. = 26,697 69 68,216
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£10,238 57,978
Loss.
1931.. 5,087 Nil 52,891
A sudden change has occurred in the outlook
for Sargents. At the annual meeting it was
resolved to appoint a committee of three
shareholders to inquire into the co.’s position.
A poll was demanded, and the result is to be
announced to a meeting not later than Sep-
tember 11.
One disquieting feature is that the interest
on the debt (£260,(122 at June 30; piled up
mainly in connection with property pur-
chases) is pressing uncomfortably upon earn-
ings, which have been sapped by the quick
growth of competition, unemployment and
reduced spending. Gross profits (£202.200),
which were also affected by the sale of the
Melbourne business in the previous term, were
£103,345 lighter; exes. (£207.287) were got
back £71,491, but a trading loss of £5087
showed up. That was after providing for
taxation and depreciation of plant and lease-
hold improvements; no allowance was made
in respect of investments or mortgages.
Further, the capital assets reserve was
tapped for £lO 238 to cover losses on the sale
of a Sydney freehold and some Melbourne
assets, reducing it to £18,769, and total paper
reserves to £52 891 at June 30. A recent
valuation on behalf of proposed mortgagees
disclosed that freeholds were overvalued in
the books by £12,000-odd; investments
may not be worth the figure at which they
appear (£72,113) either. They include 23 000
8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 37.000 ords. in Lucullus,
Ltd., which welded Sargent’s Melbourne
interests with two other catering concerns a
couple of years ago, and 12,000 shares in
City Property Estates, Ltd., which bought
this co.’s Sydney freehold above referred to.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £175,000 £272,050 £285,924 £291,666
Liabilities . . 82,646 371,693 272.105 260,622
Freeholds . . 128,550 576,428 395,027 338,696
Leaseholds .. 14,500 12,536 10,254 11,241
Plant, etc. .. 106,020 95,325 81,119 86,234
Stocks . . 20,324 29,431 29,166 17,211
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 53,129 25,788 64,139 79,684
Shares in other
cos. . . 1,988 60,113 72,113
The year’s property sale shows up in a drop
of £56.331 in the freeholds item; stocks were
£11,955 lighter. £l9 574 was added to the
overdraft (£31,234) and £5742 of fresh capi-
tal was got in, making £93.602 altogether.
This enabled the board to knock £27.104 off
the amount coming to mortgagees (£183,474),
reduce current debts (£45,915) by £3953,
add £l2 000 to the book value of sharehold-
ings, put out an extra £15,000 on mortgage
(£72.398) and spend £6103 more than was
written off on leaseholds and plant. The
other £29 000 was swallowed by the year’s
losses and the final div. for the previous
term. The excess of liabilities over more
or less liquids (£163,727, including stocks
but not shares in other cos.) was £15,073
less than at the previous balance.
Though the co. has been very successful in
the past, the weight of the debt will how
make itself felt, as it always does in such
circumstances. Much win depend upon the
satisfactory sale of freeholds whicn may prove
to be a drag, upon the extent to which over-
head can be reduced, which means keener
buying and alert supervision, and upon the
livening of turnover. Prospects in this
latter connection may not brighten for a
while.
The scrip, which went to 38s. on the
market a couple of years ago, is now priced
at 6s. 6d. The book value of the backing is
235. Bd. in net tangibles.
Queensland Trustees, Ltd.
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1921.. 6321 10 p.c. = 4829 ( „„„ - „ 50
Provident l und, £ 500 i 992
1922. . 6775 10 |j.c. = 4829 ( 1445 6 696
Provident fund, £5OO J 0,09
Transferred to capital, £5050 .. 1,646
1923. . 7197 10 p.c. = 5365 ( -ioqi o 9^7
Provident lund, £541 \ 1291 Z ’
1924.. 9221* 10 p.c. = 53651
Written off premises, £l5OO 1 1762 4,699
Provident Fund, £594 j
1925.. 9172 10 p.c. = 5050 1
Written off premises, £l5OO }- 1984 6,683
Provident Fund, £638 |
1926.. 9842 10 p.c. = 5050 ) 4099 10 782
Provident I'und, £693 J *
1927.. 7913 10 p.c. = 5050 2m 18 909
Provident Fund, £736 j
Transferred to capital, £12,625.. 284
1928.. 8492 8 p.c. = 6294 l 1f786
Provident *und £746 )
1929.. 8496 8 p.c. = 7070 g 26 2 662
Provident .fund, £6OO )
1930.. 8675 8 p.c.= 70704 1005 3507
Provident Fund, £6OO J
1931.. 4363 3§ p.c. = 3093 1270 4,837
Queensland is the only State whose wool
cheque for the 12 months to June 30
(£5,767,000) was bigger than the previous
year’s; record production is reported for
most of its other staples, too, and unem-
ployment, though growing, is easily the least
burdensome in the Commonwealth. Still,
prices, rents and capital values continue to
sag—the process has been more or less in
evidence in the northern State for the last
four years—making trade more difficult,
especially. in real estate, and dividends are
being reduced or passed altogether. So sales
of trust property have been delayed, and
the co.’s corpus and otter commission earn-
ings affected: —
Gross Exes.
June, Trusts. Profits. Exes. to Gross.
1910.. £2,135,244 £9,096 £6,173 67.8 p.c.
1920.. 4,770,752 21,406 15,043 70.2 „
1925.. 6,596,698 37,105 27,978 75.4 „
1926.. 7,016,953 38,655 28,813 74.5 „
1927.. 7,331,236 39,421 31,508 79.9 „
1928.. 7,958,795 38,926 30,434 78.2 „
1929.. 8,787,065 39,661 31,165 78.6 „
1930.. 8,863,277 40,621 31,946 78.6 „
1931.. 8,987,587 38,208 33,845 88.5 „
Thus, despite a net growth of £t24,310 in
the volume of trusts on the books, gross
profits were £2413 lighter. Yet the bill for
rates, taxes, etc. (£2537), was approximately
double the previous year’s, so exes, got
away with an extra £1899, making the slip
in the net result £4312. There was enough
to show 4.9 p.c. on capital as against 9.8,
9.6, 10.7, 15.6 and 19.4 p.c. back to 1926;
an interim div. at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
was paid, but the final was passed, so share-
holders had to be content with 3|- p.c. for
the year. It was their lightest meal since
the beginning of this century, though it is
worth 6 p.c. to old holders; 7s. 6d. of the
17s. 6d. to which the 101,000 £2 shares are
paid has been transferred from reserves
since 1917. The shrinkage in the rate of
profit during the last few years is due partly
to facts already referred to, partly to the
capitalisation of £12,625 of reserves in 1927
and partly to heavier overhead, following
additions to the premises and staff; much
will depend upon the extent to which out-
goings can be restrained.
Excluding an overdraft of £34 565 for
secured advances to trust estates, etc., there
was only £5393 coming to creditors when the
books were ruled off. Freehold and plant
figured at £69,719; public securities,
£21,150; book debts and cash. £8936.
On the market 20s. is asked for the scrip
as against 245. a year ago. The return at
the lower figure is 3 p.c. on a p.c. div.
basis, or 5.2 p.c. should the distribution be
lifted to 6 p.c. The net tangible backing
is 21s. per pound of paid capital.
Union Theatres’ Difficult Position
Few investments have caused the market
more anxiety than the picture group. The
uneasiness arose from lavish expenditure in
a struggle for supremacy between the two
organisations—Union Theatres and Hoyts—
which now control practically all the im-
portant picture theatres in Australia. Beth
groups piled up large floating and other
debts, and invested the proceeds in fixed
assets, whose earning power has contracted
severely; hence trouble threatens.
Union was the outcome of a merger, in
1913, between Amalgamated, Spencer’s and
West's, all of which sold their showing in-
terests to a new concern, the General Film
Co., for scrip. This co. then formed Aus-
tralasian Films and Union to do the hiring
and showing respectively. The two operating
cos. each had a paid capital of £300,000.
until about three years ago, and all then-
scrip is held by General Film and Greater J.
1). Williams, which also joined the combine.
Good progress was made and satisfactory
divs. were paid. Then the success of the
talkies brought richer returns, which were
greatly swollen by the recent extravagant
expenditure on amusements. This led to the
adoption of an ambitious programme of
development, including the erection of elabo-
rate buildings in the capitals, the purchase
of country and suburban theatre-circuits, the
installation of talkie equipment throughout,
and the development of costly methods of
conducting the business. But the boom-
producing loans from overseas, and high
prices for our staples vanished, expenditure of
all kinds has been brought up with a round
turn, admission prices to theatres have had
to be reduced and special taxation has been
imposed. Thus, despite the elimination of
many frills, Union and Australasian Films
together showed a loss of £48,013 for the
last half of 1930. a .swing of £89,557 com-
pared with the first half: —
Combined Fir, hues Union and Australasian Films.
Profit. Loss.
June, 1928 £67,832
Dec., 1928 20.481
June, 1929 .. .. .. 68,824
Dec., 1929 .. .. ' .. 69,600
June, 1930 41,544
Dec., 1930 . . . . . . £48,013
Trading figures to J une 30 are not yet ready,
but further heavy losses are expected by both
cos. The directors have now taken drastic
measures to deal with the position, and hope
to “balance accounts provided revenue is
maintained”; they are receiving every en-
couragement in their efforts from the cos.'
creditors, of course.
It was expected that Union would link up
with Paramount, the American producers,
but the negotiations fell through. The seri-
ousness of the position was revealed a week
or so ago, when the combined figures of the
two operating cos. were published, following
the failure of two subsidiaries in which the
public is interested to pay their interim pref.
divs., which Union and Australasian Films
guaranteed. Here are the combined figures
of the guarantors, showing the big changes
that have taken place over the last half-
dozen years:—
Combined Figures Union and Australasian Films.
1926. 1930.
Paid capital £600,000 £1,300,000
Mortgages .. .. .. 193,119 56,645
Debentures . . . . . . 73,800 81,000
Overdrafts . . .. . . 24,610 223,199
Loans .. .. .. . ■ 95,207
Sundry creditors .. .. 171,986 368,813
Freeholds . . . . . . 254,509 258,232
Plant 66,002 254,402
Stocks 212.096 96,956
Deposits on contracts, etc. .. 148,340 170,117
Investments . . . . . . 106,221 1,092,970
Leases and goodwill . . . . 599,767 603,707
Thus, in addition to getting in £700,000 of
fresh capital—it was issued by Union, mak-
ing its paid capital £1,000,000 —£361,349 net
has been added to the outside debt, raising it
to £824,864 at Dec. 27, 1930. Of that total
£223,119 was coming to the bank and
£464,020 to sundry creditors, etc., mainly
for sound equipment; only £137,645 was
anchored by mortgages and debentures —the
latter are held mainly by the others in the
group. The £1,061,349 of additional funds
thus raised was used mainly to help finance
the building and purchase of theatres and
their conversion into talkie houses. Except-
ing a comparatively small amount of film
stocks, the co. has no liquid assets. Reduc-
tion of the, huge floating debt, which over-
shadows the whole position, depends upon
the management’s ability to get the business
on to a profitable basis again; meanwhile,
losses are adding to the burden. At. the
moment it is difficult to catch a ray of bright-
ness in the outlook for shareholders, who
may be in for a long lean period. The co.
will be very fortunate indeed if it can pull
through without having to jettison some
capital.
Included in investments are 693,800 ords..
paid to £658,800, in two subsidiaries which
own the “State” theatres in Sydney and
Melbourne. These buildings cost over
£BOO,OOO more than was originally intended.
At their last balancing dates the combined
debts of these pups (£322,093, of which
£290,000 was raised on mortgage) exceeded
their combined liouids (£75,078) by £247,015.
Their £600,000 of pref. capital, 8 p.c. cumu-
lative, is guaranteed both as to. principal
and div. by Union and Australasian Films.
But owing to the position that has developed
the guarantee does not now amount to much.
The Banks—How to Test Strength
A correspondent to-day asks how he can
test the strength of a bank; and general
replies are elsewhere given to the question.
It might, however, be of some advantage to
see how the tests work out; and that early
(Continued on page 16.)


IPS
i
IlSill
w
. ; . •>:
■
‘it:3M& H
H
mui
m
l: : ■<•.'•
Dunlop Perrlriau Rulbe >• Covered Belt* on Main D iv-s at Fop
& Gibson’s Woollen Mills, Collingwood, Victoria. These belts
have given absolutely trouble-free service for over 7 years.
It’s not left to Nature!
I
mJ
Dunlop Perdriau Belts driving the
variou heads on 6-head Moulding
Machine at works of A. C. Saxton &
Sons Ltd., Pyrmont, Sydney, N.S. W.
Uniform quality and strength through-
out the entire length of a Dunlop Perdriau
Rubber Belt assured by scientific control
Ip U RIN G the manufacture of
™ ™ Dunlop Perdriau Belts the pro-
duction of the two basic materials used—
rubber and cotton —is scientifically con-
trolled to a pre-determined degree of
accuracy. As a result, the finished pro-
duct possesses uniformity of strength
and elasticity throughout its entire length
—a uniformity of quality which is unat-
tainable in any other type of belting.
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Transmission
Belts are made for all types and condit-
ions of service. Whether the load is
heavy or light; the speed fast or slow;
the atmosphere moisfi dry, laden with
acid fumes or steam ; the location indoor
or outdoor, it is possible to select a
Dunlop Perdriau Transmission Belt exactly suited lor the purpose
required. And Dunlop Perdriau Belts are economical, not only
on a price basis, but also in terms of length of service, freedom
from trouble, and the amount of power transmitted. Running easily
and smoothly at all times, they eliminate vibration and relieve
the bearings and shafts of shattering fatigue.
SR
m
m
m
a
Above :
Dunlop Perrlriau Belts
driving planing mach-
ine at timber works of
John Sharp & Sons
Ltd.,South Melbourne
Victoria.
At right:
Dunlop Perdriau Betti
driving ccnnixter
machinerg at factory
of Australasian Jam
Co. P-y. Ltd.. South
Yarra, Victoria
For maximum efficiency at minimum cost 9 specify:
Dunlop Perdriau
RUBBER transmission Beliitity
lUNLOP
PERDRIAU RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED
Branches
all Stale


PIONEER BELTING GIVES
GREATER PULLEY GRIP.
Because Pioneer Leather Belting
gives greater pulley grip, it in-
sures maximum efficiency on the
largest ratios. Pioneer Belting
also has up to six times greater
wearing qualities under all work-
ing conditions. There is a special
waterproof Pioneer Belt to suit
each type of drive. Expert
advice without obligation.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Made and guaranteed since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-2 G Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Comnames Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
V. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.U.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Purchasers and Refiners of
GOLD and GOLD ORES, SILVER and SILVER ORES, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION, COPPER ORES, COPPER PRECIPITATES, SCRAP COPPER,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper. “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of
the Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, SEND YOUR GOLD BY POST (INSURED) TO ANY OF OUR OFFICES.
The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The “Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
FOR SEPTEMBER
READY NEXT SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY 2/- :
PER ANNUM 22/6.
Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* s= a =:=
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign PatentF
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
:is » £ ff
The great saving effected in pipe-line construction
by the specification of Pioneer Wood Pipe is not
solely due to the fact that its first cost is so much
less. Handling costs, laying and maintenance are
all on a similar low level—so that all-round econo-
mies are gained. The service rendered by this
modern conduit is of the highest standard of effi-
ciency. Write for interesting literature, post free,
to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,. Burns Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
!•: * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
CONVEYOR
FOR SALE
Length 225 feet, width 3ft.
6in., with 12-h.p. 480 motor.
At present installed in the premises
formerly owned by Keep, Macpherson.
Ltd. (in liq.), and recently purchased
by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
The conveyor as now placed diagonally
through the building lifts 96cwt. from
the basement to the 7th floor every
four minutes.
AN ABSOLUTE BARGAIN
Apply THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 87971.
bird on the list, the A.8.C., will serve as
an example as well as any.
When trouble comes to a bank it is nearly
always through the depositors. They get
nervous and want their money out. Now,
there are plenty of times when a man owes
you money that you wish he didn’t. But
that isn’t because he hasn’t got the money
in his pocket. A man isn’t necessarily well
off because he carries a roll of notes around
with him. That sort of man, in fact, you
rather mistrust. You can see his roll, but
you can’t see his debts; and you wonder
whether he parades the one to make you
forget the other. You don’t even greatly
trust a man who has a large sum of money
lying idle at home or at a bank. You say
that that man doesn’t know how to use
money; and you would feel safer —and in the
long run would be safer—if he made good
use of his resources.
It can be exactly the same with a bank.
It is not the one with the largest, flasliest
stock of coin and bullion that is .ue most to
be trusted. You could break probably the
richest man in Sydney if you called upon him
to pay all his debts on the nail, and you
could almost certainly break the richest bank
—that is, if neither had friends they could
call upon.
One great test of real strength is the
amount of your own money you work upon.
If you have £5 of your own and borrow
another £2O, and use the £25 to buy a horse,
obviously if that horse falls in price £6 the
man you borrowed from is in a bad way. But
if you had £lO of your own and borrowed
only £l5, then the price might fall £6 and
the man who lent you the money would still
have a good margin of £4. Take the case of
the A.B.C. As at June 30 it had these
funds of its own:—
Capital £2,208,000
Reserve fund . . . . 1,111,880
Undivided profits . . 59,507
Total £3,379,387
All its liabilities to the public at this date
were £11,886,280, mostly, of course, deposits.
This means that for every £3 10s. of deposits
and all other liabilities, it had £1 of its own.
Some of the resources of a bank are
kept in liquid assets. Of these assets this
bank had £3,440,126 as at June 30—coin,
bullion and Australian notes (£1,976,584)
and Treasury bills, balances at other banks
and so on. Of non-liquid assets it had
£11,825,550, which actually is the total of
the assets of the bank liable to depreciation ;
the other £3,440,126 are as good as cash. So
of the public’s money (deposits, etc.)
£3,440,126 can be paid out of cash and liquid
assets, leaving only £8.446,163 to be pro-
vided by all other assets, which “other
assets.” as we have seen, total no less than
£11,825,550.
Australia has no Central Bank on the
American pattern ; but in the Commonwealth
Bank it has a Reserve Bank of very great
value. The Commonwealth Bank is the sole
note-issuing authority; on its present gold
holding, it is empowered to issue a further
18 millions of notes. It holds part of the
reserves of all constituent banks; it can
advance cash against those reserves. Fur-
ther, it can take over any of the securities
of any constituent bank, and advance cash
against them. In the words nf the chair-
man of the Commonwealth Bank in an
address last week:—
To-day the Commonwealth Bank holds large
deposits from the trading banks of Australia, and,
as the only bank of issue, or, in other words, the
only bank authorised to issue currency in the form
of national notes, it must be prepared at any time
to issue currency to its banker depositors, when
called upon, and to render any assistance which is
justified in the interests of national welfare.
So it is really waste of money for an indi-
vidual bank to keep large supplies of coin,
bullion and notes on the premises; the public
interest rather demands that it shall assist
trade by using its money. The point which
should really concern (he public is whether
the bank—any bank —has enough capital and
reserves to safeguard its creditors; and, in
an inquiry into that, the first thing to do is
to consider the proportion of shareholders’
funds to the bank’s total liabilities. It will
he found that Australian banks —even the
smaller ones —come through that test extra-
ordinarily well.
Australasian Catholic Assurance (Sydney)
Ex-
Junc, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. Assurance funds, £13,138
Less Goodwill, 2,500 .. 10,638
1926.. 50,253 1524 28,963 19,766 30.404
1927.. 64,430 1739 33,764 28,927 59,331
1928.. 84,900 3333 42,308 39,259 98,590
1929.. 114,290 4582 56,959 52,749 151,339
1930.. 140,411 6179 60,200 74,032 225,371
Added establishment account, £522.. 224,849
1931.. 152,956 9867 60,373 82,716 307,565
*Net funds apart from capital.
Policies were harder to sell, of course,
but a growing goodwill helped, and net
premium income (£133,852) beat the pre-
vious year’s by £6958. The office again
scored on its investments; interest earn-
ings (£5588 heavier at £19,105) were equal
to £6 16s. p.c. on average funds as against
£6 13s. 5d., £6 Gs. 9d. and £6 2s. lid.
p.c. in the three preceding years. This high
return, which provides a wide margin over
the 4 p.c. which the office assumes that
its funds will earn, is mainly due to
the fact that 71.4 p.c. of the co.’s assets are
first mortgages. Exes. (£60,373) ran off with
45.1 p.c. of the year’s premiums as against
47.4, 54 and 53.8 p.c. back to 1926. Claims
(£9867) took 7.4 p.c. compared with 4.9, 4.3
and 4.2 p.c. in the three preceding years.
Last year's surplus from all departments
was £82,716. an improvement of £8684.
Insurance funds are now £307,565 in excess of
the £6413 of goodwill and establishment exes.,
and, in addition, there is £14,610 of share
capital. The life fund, the “Wild Cat” is
assured, well covers policy liabilities; the
actuary is now busy measuring up the exact
position. Over the past four years increas-
ing bonuses have been paid on death claims.
Last year’s stagnation in the real-estate
business curtailed the co.’s opportunities to
lend safely on mortgage, and it turned to
Commonwealth securities. Thus the ratio
of mortgages (£237.258. up £29,483) to total
assets dropped from 82.1 p.c. to 71.4 p.c.,
while the percentage in Government stocks
(£69,597, up £42,881) rose from 10.6 to
27.4 p.c.:—
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. .. £14,610 £14,010 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities .. 072 2,999 4,935 3,482
Mortgages .. 43.138 133,086 207.775 237.258
Govt, securities .. 25.758 26,671 26.716 69.597
Cash, etc. .. 1,320 888 1,327 1,442
Debtors .. .. 466 1.697 1.788 1,890
Loans on policies.. 154 1.215 3,251 8,490
Equipment .. 2.727 4,241 4.696 4,267
Shares in other cos. 1,060 1,150 1,682 1,833
Freeholds .. 880
Loans on policies over three years in
force were £5239 heavier. Shares in the
Invincible Fire and General Insurance Co.,
an offshoot doing business with the public
as well as re-insuring its associate’s risks,
appear at £1833.
Started by managing-director E. J. Mooney
in 1921, the business, mainly life, has
made an encouraging growth. Costs have
been steadily reduced, but they will need
to fall further yet before there is likely to be
any profit from that source. Details of
hew business, etc., are not disclosed. The
co.’s prospects are bright.. Shareholders
are entitled to 20 p.c. of the profits,
when earned, and policy-holders to 80 p.c.
Following the general lowering of rates, in-
terest earnings will be affected, both as
regards Government stock and mortgages.
The latter are all firsts, secured on city
property.
It is doubtful whether unsecured creditors
of the Civil Service Stores, Sydney, will get
any of their money back; they figured at
£31,256 at July 31, 1930. The liquidation
brought in £88,820, including £73,680 from
Anthony Hordern and Sons for stock, book
debts and a trifle (£175) of goodwill, etc.
Exes, amounted to £22,097, leaving £66.723
for distribution. The Commonwealth Bank’s
claim (£62,761) was settled in full, and the
taxgatherer is expected to make off with the
rest (£3962). The only asset unsold was
the freehold in George-street. which was
costing about £375 a week in rates, taxes
and interest on mortgage. The mortgagee,
who entered into possession on June 16,
offered the property at auction, and again no
bid was received. Thus the apparently large
surplus represented by the Society’s equity
in the premises is valueless under existing
conditions. At July 31, 1930, fixed assets,
including plant, had a book value of
£492,881, subject to a first mortgage of
£182,400.
Hetton Bellbird, a star performer in the
gas-making group of Northern N. S. Wales
coalpits, just got clear of the troubles fol-
lowing the fire and explosion at No. 1 col-
liery, when a year’s idleness resulted in a
straight-out loss of £17,449. Hewing began
again early in the last term, but owing to
keener competition for fewer orders at lower
prices, the profit for the 12 months to June
30 (£9043) was only 2.1 p.c. on the £449.964
of capital; no div. was paid. There was a
reduction of £34,649 in the book value of the
assets (all lumped in one untidy entry at
£520,259), and £43,695 was lopped off the
debt (now £52,624, including something for
taxation and contingencies). A stronger
demand from Maoriland and better inter-State
shipments have quickened the output of the
industry during the last three months. But
the future is very obscure; a bill now before
Parliament aims at placing control of the
industry in the hands of a board of three —
a representative each of the owners and
employees, and a chairman appointed by the
Government —which is to have power to set
up various sub-committees and to determine
outputs, selling-prices, wages, divs. and a
host of other things, .including the closing
of pits and payment of compensation. Ail
profits in excess of 10 p.c. p.a. on capital,
together with one-tenth of the remaining
profits, are to be paid into a “Coal Industry
Fund,” to be administered by the board.
Hence the market offers only Bs. 6d. for
Hetton’s fully-paid pound shares. At that
price the return would be 5.9 p.c. on a 2\
p.c. div. basis.
The 800 Zinc Corporation (Broken Hill)
men who pulled out over a dispute about the
price for a contract job in a stope have voted
to go back on the co.’s terms, said terms
being much less satisfactory than those on
which they went out. They were then get-
ting three weeks’ work in four, though it
would have paid the co. better to shut down
altogether (the mine account showed a debit
of oyer £40.000 last year) ; in the future they
are to get work every other week. Whether
they will all take it is doubtful; some may
prefer the dole. There is still a noisy mili-
tant section at Broken Hill; but it can no
longer win on a ballot.
:|i * * *
Strenuous efforts arc being made to get
the old Oaks field on the Etheridge (N.Q.)
going again. Broken Hill Prop, is sending
an engineer to investigate. Geologist W. E.
Cameron is behind the scheme, and he has
had W. S. Jensen up there sampling exten-
sively. This field worked 3dwt. stone less
than a decade ago; values were often only
Us., but costs were down to Bs. or 9s. The
aim is to treat 1000 tons of ore a day; values
are reckoned to be about 14s. per ton, includ-
ing the exchange premium. Mining by open
cut will not cost more than 2s. —there are
no awards to be observed.
❖ :!: # *
Most of the prospectors on the new Cracow
field in the Dawson Rivpr country (Q.) have
drawn only sweat and disappointment. Two
trial erushings recently sent to Rockhamp-
ton produced only pennyweights. The real
find is Lambert’s Surprise area, where some-
thing out of the way in values is promised.
Both Gibson and Denmead have sampled it,
independently, and each got high returns.
One lift, ore face actually showed an assay
value of Bsoz. This was obtained from a
good average sample, not a small specimen
with free gold.
* * *
Oil Search, Ltd., intends blasting its
Lougreach well with a view of locating the
oil sand. The supposition is that the bore
has gone past this sand and sealed it off.
It is a ticklish job, and Arthur Moore has
been engaged to do it. He had charge of the
last Government bore at Roma, and sub-
sequently investigated the latest drilling-
technique in the United States.
* ❖ *
Mount Isa has found it necessary to haul
coke for its smelters from the N.S.W. South
Coast. The Queensland Government has
been experimenting with the Bowen coal, and
has produced what it believes a satisfactory
sample. A consignment of 45 tons has been
railed to Isa, and, if all goes well, coke-ovens
will be erected at Bowen to supply the big
silver-lead field.
C. E. Blackett, research metallurgist to
Great Boulder Perseverance (W.A.), has
convinced the Board that substantial savings
in costs would follow direct brOmo-cyanida-
tion of the ores; which renders roasting un-
necessary. The flotation process is fashion-
able just how, but roasting has to follow.
Of course, different ores require different
treatment; still, Blackett has been experi-
meting with Perseverance ore for the last
three years, so he should know by this time
the process most, suitable to it. The bank
has agreed to advance the co. £lO,OOO, pro-
vided the loan is guaranteed by the W.A.
Government.
The decision of the W.A. Mines Depart-
ment to pay £40,000 “over am extended
period” in connection with the long-drawn-
out legal action against the State smelters at
Ravensthorpe has brought a crop of claims,
but the Crown Law Department has not
yet made available particulars of the allot-
ment to claimants. Meantime the gold- and
copper-miners concerned are becoming more
angry.
Alluvial Tin’s eight working subsidiaries
in Malaya recovered tin oxide to the value
of £30,036 for August. Working costs were
£17,353, so, without allowing for depreciation,
etc., there was £19,283 to spare. Rawang
Tin Fields, with working costs down to
2.8 d. per yard, netted £5017. Kuala Kam-
par, whose dredge was hung up for 18 days
for repairs, dropped £117; costs were 4.1 d.
Kundang balanced the ledger, costs and real-
isation each standing at £7OO, while Malim
Nawar netted a bare £156; yardage costs
for the two were 6.7 d. and 4d. respectively.
Changkat, with working costs at 2.8 d. per
c.y.,. showed a credit of £4870; Kampong
Lanjut was £2275 ahead of it on a recovery
of 90 tons of t.o. from 505.000 c.y.; costs
averaged 1.9 d. Rawang Concessions cleared
£3267, with costs at 2.6 d.: Kramat, with
costs a trifle lower, was £4258 to the good.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How can I judge the strength of a hank
and compare one icith another? —5415.
(1) Look at the capital and reserves and
compare them with the total non-liquid
assets. This will show you how much the
non-liquid assets can shrink away from book-
value before the public’s money (deposits,
etc.) will be in danger. (2) Look at the
proportion of fixed deposits and current
accounts. The less current account money
lent out, the safer. (3) Look at the propor-
tion of capital and reserves to public liabili-
ties. The higher this proportion the less the
risk. (4) Look at the profit p.c. on funds
(capital and reserves). If it is a good figure
the assets are likely to be good. Low earn-
ings over a number of years suggest that
either many accounts are inoperative or pro-
fit is being used to make bad debts into good.
(5) Look at the proportion of cash and very
liquid assets to deposits, especially current
accounts. The poorer this proportion the
worse the risk, unless the bank has an
arrangement with other banks for mutual
support. (6) Look at the margin of
profit over dividend paid. Unless a bank is
busy providing for bad accounts, a wide mar-
gin generally means conservative manage-
ment and strong reserves. Finally, while
size is not strength, a good big ’un is better
than a- good little ’un,
BRIEF ANSWERS.
P.E.H.: (1) Yes. (2) Thoroughly
Libra: (1) Always a market in London, though
prices fluctuate. (2) Frank Hambridge, Bridge-
street, Sydney... .M.C.W.: Policy-holders are covered
thus far; but the outlook is distinctly poor. Most
of the share capital has gone.... John G.: (1) Wm.
Tilley and Co., Union Bank Chambers, Pitt-street.
(2) £3 15s. plus stamp duty. . . .Sugar & C.: The
Bulletin doesn’t use the editorial “we” once in a
blue moon. So when it said “we shuddered” it
meant this right-thinking community shuddered—
we, the m0b.... M.C.M.: If safety is very important,
definitely n 0... .P.0.F.: All highly speculative....
Oxley: (1) If they are £1 shares you are liable
for £1 in all. (2) Not listed on any Stock Ex-
change. (3) No public quotation for months
J.W.: (1) No. (2) They got little help anywhere.
. ...Y.8.H.: (1) No. (2) Probably a bit early....
F.W.M.: The method is quite sound... .E.W.: They
can garnishee your wages, but are not likely to.
Ask them to sell your share... .W.A.R.: You have
no preferential rights... .J.McC.: Perhaps; but the
other will not be allowed to fail... .M.R.C.: Secu-
rity worth little, if anything. We mistrust the whole
business.


Mining Machinery of Modem Design and Construction
-
wmm #
«... *
m ■» *: «
■
.
n- ?
i x
■.
19
1
I
-
±m
- , >.,, , >■! ! "'
1
\
PATENTED
EQUIPMENT
We are the Sole
Licensees in Australia
for the Manufacture of
“WII FI FY”
SAND AND GRAVEL
PUMPS
“FAHRENWALD”
FLOTATION UNITS
Either of these Units
are indispensable for
Modern Mining Plants,
96in. X 48in. “RUWOLT” CONICAL BALL MILL. Weight: 35 Tons.
This Mill was recently designed and manufactured by us to the order of THE NORTH BROKEN HILL, LIMITED,
and is being installed by them in their New Milling Plant at Broken Hill.
The Mill, illustrated, is a good example of the class of high-grade work that we are continually
producing. Our experience in, and resources for, the design and manufacture of any type of
machinery required for the Crushing, Milling, Dressing and any other treatment of Ore
unique, and we will be glad to submit designs and quotations for suitable Plant on receipt of
enquiries.
CHARLES RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
Missing Friends.
DOWN.—If. ARTHUR BOWN, formerly
of Adelaide and Broken Hill, hairdresser
and tobacconist, and of Brisbane, Queens-
land, husband of Jessie Jane Bown, of
Bradley Street, Spring- Hill, Queensland, last
heard of as in hospital in Sydney in 1913,
communicates with the undersigned he will
hear something to his advantage. Any
person knowing anything of the said Arthur
Bown is asked to communicate with the
undersigned immediately.
A. J. L. SUTHERLAND. Solicitor,
Pirie Street, Adelaide.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Hep,: H. C. H*NCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
New
Australian Portable
Stamper Batteries
i
.. >
it
Si
Pumps, Tools, Rope, Piping and Mining Equipment also stocKea
“Golden Gusher”
The Power Crusher, illustrated, has an output
of 1-1 $ tons per day of eight hours.
It has a 1001 b. Hammer which gives 250
blows per minute.
Water is circulated through the Cast-Iron
Mortar Box by means of the Pump shown.
A Steel Hopper is supplied capable of holding
a barrow-load of 2in. to ore, which is
automatically fed into the opening.
When crushed, the ore is washed through a
screen into the mercury trough, from which it
flows over tables.
We have also a portable Hand-operated
Crusher with an output of 2cwt. per day.
Full particulars and prices will be sent on request.
c
Proprietary Limited
554 Collins St., Melbourne. 51 Bathurst St., Sydney
116 Waymouth St., Adelaide. 532 Murray St., Perth
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way


Polite Poe[?]s of
Sydney Shows.
HER MAJESTY’S
Since the Firm began
Gilbert and Sullivan
Her Majesty’s has been full
Asa contented old bull,
Ivan Menzies, comedian,
Is a quick-spring weedy ’uu
Who’d look like a cocksparrow
Only his legs are too narrow,
John Ralston, as a copper,
Is an absolute whopper.
He would be a foine bhoy
On the great horse of Troy.
Gregory Stroud
Ought to be proud;
His figure goes up a lot.
His notes.... do not.
Miss Bremner is sweeter
Than a Hexham Grey skeeter;
She’s as light on the wing,
But she has no sting.
When Leo Darnton sings
Every gallery-girl clings
To the young man beside her
And asks Heaven to guide her.
Alban Whitehead’s voice
Is so er —choice
That no audience deserves it,
So he carefully conserves it.
Evelyn Gardiner looks
As if she had never fed chooks.
She could not possibly stoop
As far down as a coop.
CRITERION
At the ancient Cri.
Baldheads and flappers sigh
Over the wrongs of humanity
In plays of varied inanity.
Frank Harvey’s acting
Is the most distracting
When his voice quavers like jelly
Somewhere down in his b —y.
Miss Darbyshire was imported
On the strength of gifts assorted;
Some of these she has revealed,
The others are still concealed.
John Fernside has so much muscle
That it is rather a tussle
For him to articulate.
Except Barcoo or Billingsgate.
If Alexander Marsh
Had to say anything harsh,
Like “Bally I” or “Rot!”
He would choke on the spot.
When Leonard Stephens speaks
Every boot that squeaks—
However zealously—
Stays silent jealously.
ROYAL
The Royal has variety
Of mixed propriety.
The hallet is quite decent,
And one joke is almost recent.
The repertoire
Of Lily Moore
Is stories and shrilly notes
That make men perform like billy goats.
For a Scotch comedian, McKay
Is a wizened little guy,
Though his feet
Seem to have had guid stuff to eat.
Josephine Trix
Is inclined to mix
Sentimentality
With banality.
The Fallow Twins
Have lovely pins.
They would be just the thing
If only they didn’t sing.
When Rene Riano dances
There are two thrilling chances—
That she will kick her ear off
Or burst her gear off.
(Alas! from the Royal to-day
All these, have faded away;
The show, though greatly puffed,
Last week sedately snuffed.)
OPERA HOUSE
The Opera House stand
Is anything but grand.
It’s down in Campbell-street,
Where they give you birds’ nests to
eat.
è
IVAN MENZIES.
é
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYD BECK.
IRIS DARBYSHIRE.
FRANK HARVEY.
EVELYN GARDINER.
JOHN RALSTON.
JOE LAWMAN.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
„ ~ , { “Trial by Jury”
Hek Majesty s | “The Pirates of Penzance”
Criterion “Cape Forlorn’ -
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Duchess of Dantzic”
Comedy “A Warm Corner”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville & Revue
State Movies and Talkies
ê
added that Harvey acts up to the standard
he has set. that Miss Darbyshire is better
in every play she appears in. and that ITarvey
Adams is given one of the rare opportunities
that come his way of revealing his fine
ability.
¥ V 9
The Firm has now two capital shows
going in Sydney. The other is the Gilsulli-
van ‘‘Trial by Jury” and “Pirates of Pen-
zance” at Her Majesty’s. It is most remark-
able for an interesting change of attack, from
the seriousness of the “Gondoliers” produc-
ton to excellent Gilbertianism. A few of
them still show no sign of a sense of humor,
notablv Leo Darnton and Maisie Ramsay;
but Miss Ramsay, at least, sings “Poor
Wandering One” and other things so uncom-
monly well that she stands acnuitted with
honors on all other counts. Ivan Menzies
is adequate as the Judge, and man-
ages the thinner part of the General
fairly well. In the curtain-raiser Miss
Bremner displays a nicer and more delineate
touch of humor than any of the other ladies,
and in the other John Ralston makes a
capital job of the John Hop.
¥ ¥ #
At St. James’s Hall, Sydney, Paul Furniss
staged his own play “The Reformation of
Anne Carey,” and played in it. He has
learnt a quite unusual amount about the
playwright’s job, but has yet to learn that
farce is not a soluble element. Slightly
altered to be played wholly as farce. “The
Reformation of Anne” would be good, and
with a sprinkling of songs—it already has
a dance—-it would go well as musicomedy.
As it is, it falls between farce and what
may be called serious comedy. It is, how-
ever, a bright note in Australian play efforts.
Furniss himself is a confident actor, and he
has a good, if somewhat loud, supporter in
Althea Glasby. While they were on stage
his play went well. The dozen or so others
did it no good.
¥ # *
Fritz Hart has been invited by Honolulu
to conduct four symphony concerts at. its
annual musical festival next year, and the
fee is an attractive one. Usually the invita-
tion goes to some eminent American. Musical
Melbourne will lose the services of the bril-
liant composer-conductor for four months in
consequence, but can console itself in the
meantime by surveying the feather Fritz
has placed in its bonnet.
It may be that the Midbourne people, once
fed so liberally on theatrical fare by J.C.W.,
the Fullers, Hugh J. Ward and other public
benefactors, are now drifting in sheer despair
into the concert halls. At any rate
Ilambourg-Dawson enjoyed packed Town
Halls all last week, while over the way at
the Capitol, where the pictures are not par-
ticularly splendiferous at the moment, guest-
conductor Gazabon has been drawing huge
houses with performances of pseudo-classics
which are so familiar as almost to be offen-
sive. Moreover, there have been other well-
attended concerts. At the Melba Hall the
A.B.C. wireless symphony orchestra, con-
ducted by Percy Code and led by Edouard
Lambert, turned on Beethoven’s seldom-
heard First Symphony, regarded rather
sniffily by orthodox criticism, though if any
other composer had written it it would pro-
bably be a constant visitor to programmes.
The orchestra is improving in quality, but
needs strengthening numerically.
* * *
J.C.W. revivals continue well at Brisbane
Majesty’s. The latest offering is “Maid of
the Mountains,” with Lilian Crisp as Teresa,
Don Nieol as Tonio and George Willoughby
as Crumpet. Houses, as usual, full. After
“The Maid” “The Belle of New York”, and
“New Moon” will shine for three nights
each.
* * #
The jolly impudent modernity of “Hay
Fever,” ended the Ethel Morrison season at
Adelaide Royal; she impressed Adelaide as
a fine and versatile actress, recalling Mrs.
Brough on this occasion. A strong company,
with John Wood and Coral Brown distinct
“finds.”
* #
Scott Alexander is leading a new reper-
tory society which will unloose Grand Guig-
nol’at St. James’s Hall, Sydney, on Saturday.
The opening bill will include “Satan’s
Daughter” (“an essay in horror”), “Infi-
delity” (“a tense tragedy”). “The Husband
Snatcher” and “Bread and Dripping” (“two
merry comedies”!, and “Buried Alive” (“a
spiritualistic experiment with a. ghastly
end”). Gw.vnneth Lascellcs, until lately
with the Firm, is one of the artists, and
there are several others of professional
experience.
* * *
The current Gilsullivan bill at Sydney
Majesty’s runs till September 11; then “The
Yeomen” till the 26th, “The Mikado” till
October 17, “lolanthe” till October 31,
“Pinafore” till Noy. 14, finishing with
“Patience.”
NEIL MCKAY.
ANGELA PARSELLES.
LEO DARN TON.
LILY MOORE.
LEN RICH.
RENE RIANO.
JOHN FERNSIDE.
DUNCAN MACDOUGALL.
THE FALLOW TWINS.
DORTS FITTON.


THE TEMPORARY SACK.
“All the British political leaders emphasise that the suspension of party government is only temporary.”
THE MASTER: “Look at the state of the place! You ought to be sacked for gross incompetence. But I suppose, after we’ve turned you out and tidied things
up, we’ll take you back again! We always do.”
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Soviet Five-year Plan
In its first two years the Soviet Five-year
Plan appears to have worked out practically
in accordance with estimates, as far as capi-
tal outlay and increased production are con-
cerned. But foreign trade, despite organised
dumping and subsidies, showed little response.
The general object of the plan is the
accumulation and investment of all Soviet
capital with the aim of improving and in-
creasing production, so that at the end of the
five-year period Russia may be one of the
great industrial countries of the world. The
period to be covered is from October 1, 1928,
to December 31, 1933. During that time a
240 p.c. increase (over 1928 figures) in
industrial output is aimed at, and 170 p.c.
in agriculture. For the scheme to work out
to estimates, costs are required to be brought
down by over 40 p.c., and wholesale prices
to fall 24 p.c. As a result exports were to
increase .250 p.c. in the five years and
imports by 80 p.c., and the export surplus
would amount to 350 million roubles (37
million pounds) a year.
The Soviet’s foreign credit being as it is,
loans abroad were out of the question, and
the capital required under the plan has to
be found at home. To this end forced sav-
ing and practically forced labor has been
necessary, and any projected improvements
in the present low standard of living post-
poned. The capital outlay involved over the
five years is put at nearly 10,000 millions
sterling, the current year’s programme call-
ing for 3400 millions.
Lenin introduced his new economic policy
in 1921, and for the last six years the Soviet
has balanced its budget. But the Govern-
ment has a monopoly of trade, and a large
part of the industrial profits finds its way
to the Soviet exchequer. Profit-earning inter-
nally has been made easier, too, because the
Government can practically fix its own
prices. All foreign trade, large-scale manu-
facture, banking and wholesale trade is in
the hands, of the Government or its repre-
sentatives. Manufacture is carried on by a
large number of Government-controlled
“trusts,” and distribution is in the hands of
another set of organisations or “syndicates.”
Costs in the two years have been reduced
at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a., whereas 11 p.c. p.a.
was hoped for. Partly for that reason
profits have not come up to expectations, and
the resulting shortage of income has had
to be made up by.increased bank loans, the
increase in the note circulation last year
being nearly three times more than was
budgeted for. What appears to be largely
a result of this “expansion of credit” is a
jump of over 10 p.c. in the wholesale price
level, quite contrary to the plan, and show-
ing no correspondence to conditions in the
outside world. Official control prevents
exchange fluctuations, but internally the pur-
chasing-power of the rouble has declined.
Russia is rich in natural resources, though
uneconomically situated, and the coal, oil and
crude steel industries have so far kept up
to, or gone ahead of, schedule. But those
industries depending on overseas for raw
materials (such as cotton) have lagged,
partly because of technical ignorance, but
mainly owing to the shortage of foreign funds
to buy the materials with. Hence the dump-
ing of raw and semi-finished products in
Britain and elsewhere in order to build up
foreign credits.
It is mainly in crude materials that the
Soviet is at present competing with the
rest of the world. Nevertheless, definite pro-
gress has been made generally, and though
curtailment of the original scheme seems cer-
tain, the Soviet industrial machine will
probably continue to depress world prices of
the goods it exports until some concerted
action is taken by the countries principally
affected.
Queensland Timber Industry
“Silvanus”: The timber industry of
Queensland is at cross purposes. Une sec-
tion of the millers claims that prices of sawn
timber are too high but cannot be reduced
because the Forestry Department’s royalties
are above a fair thing. The other section
retorts that the royalties are fair and reason-
able and that the State could not justify
itself in accepting less than the true market
value of the timber. The worried Govern-
ment finds it difficult to reconcile the two
viewpoints.
In actual fact the Crown royalties pro-
bably have nothing to do with the high
prices. Most of the big sawmills are situated
in towns too far removed from the sources
of log supply, and the costs of transport of
the raw material are excessive. This view
is borne out by the fact that mills operating
close to the forests are underselling the town
mills by as much as 50 per cent. Reduction
of royalties will not alter the economic rela-
tionship between the two classes of mills, so
that the bush mills will still be able to
undersell the others. Possibly the Govern-
ment realises this and is reluctant to forego
revenue in a vain endeavor to help the old-
established concerns.
The Government should, however, definitely
state its attitude without further delay, so
that millers and.the buying public may know
where they stand. Whip the uncertainty
remains, home-builders will hold off in the
expectation of a drop in pi’ices. Some of the
mills may shift out to the timber when it
is seen to be the only way out.
The Pacific Services
“Will L.”: The Wonga Wonga (680 tons)
and City of Melbourne (838 tons) crossed
the pond in 1870. the first Australian mail
steamers to run between Sydney and San
Francisco; in conjunction with the Ajax, an
American ship which they met at Honolulu,
they constituted the first trans-Pacific ser-
vice by the San Francisco route. The little
Miowrra and Warrimoo opened the Sydney
to Vancouver service in 1893. To-day
20 000-tonners are planned for both these
routes.
Trans-Pacific services, excepting those
between America and the Orient, have never
been profitable; The distances are too great
and the subsidies too small, while the freight
and passengers offering have never been very
considerable. Only the ambition of Ameri-
cans to dominate Pacific shipping is respon-
sible for the sudden activity in the shipping
cos. of this ocean. With mail subsidies
ranging from Bs. to 12s. 6d. a mile, accord-
ing to tonnage, the Americans .have a big
advantage, and in addition they get their
ships on very easy terms through Govern-
ment loans. In the Far East the Dollar Line
has established services which -would not pay
without the subsidies. These run from
Seattle or San Francisco via Honolulu,
Japan, Shanghai and Hongkong to Manila,
from Honolulu to Manila d.rect, and by
either of these routes, as portions of round-
the-world trade and passenger services.
Running level with the Dollar ships, as
regards route, the C.P.R. liners are out-
standing in the Far East. At Manila they
are the social centre of the white popula-
tion while they lie there. The other big
line in the Far East is the N.Y.K., sub-
sidised by the Japanese Government. They
run on almost every route in the Pacific,
even as far as South America, and to Europe
by both canals.
The combination of the Canadian-Austral-
asian and the C.P.R. should do much to
maintain British prestige in the Pacific.
Their interests coincide in linking distant
dominions of the Empire. Recently the
C.P.R. extended its Far Eastern run to
Honolulu from Vancouver, where previously
it had terminated.
Regarding the American law forbidding
any but American ships from trading
between American ports, it is interesting to
know that some American liners, which do
not trade between American ports, are regis-
tered in British countries, and fly the Red
Duster. This enables them to pay lower
wages and avoid certain charges.
Reconditioning Timbers
“Sawdust”: As a member of a firm of
millers who for the past 40 years have been
cutting, machining and treating Tasmanian
oak, I have something to say anent the par.
from London (B. 12/8/’3l) re that and
other timbers. It is stated that “wood may
leave Australia in apparently sound condi-
tion, but arrive shrivelled and warped.” This
is only true of improperly seasoned boards,
the shrivelling and warping being the result
of moisture drying out en route. Seasoning
will not cure it. Steam saturation will;
but the timber must first of all be properly
seasoned. This is the keynote of the whole
treatment —effective seasoning followed by
reconditioning.
Kiln-drying is mentioned. By observa-
tions extending over many years, we find
that air seasoning, followed by recondition-
ing and then kiln-drying to exclude moisture,
gives absolutely the best results. The
kiln that will treat Tasmanian oak green
from the saw with anything like the suc-
cess attending this method has not been
evolved. Kiln-drying is only fit for hurry-
ing on the seasoning process after a period
in the air racks —say, three months.
The Council of Scientific and Industrial
Research has tried to popularise the “recon-
ditioner” throughout the island, but millers
are not rushing it. The main reason for this
appears to be that the smaller man ships
most of his flooring and weatherboards green,
to be seasoned and milled in Victoria —on
the small-prolit-quick-return basis. Obviously
this is detrimental to his own State.
The high tariff has, at any rate, demon-
strated that we can produce better flooring
and weatherboards than were ever imported.
Malaria May Go
According to Krysto, a Russian scientist,
the world may be rid of its most widesnread
and destructive disease, malaria. The Rus-
sian’s remedy is the cultivation of leguminous
plants in malarial areas. The Anopheles
mosquito, carrier of the disease, feeds entirely
on vegetable juices as far as the male is
concerned. The female takes to the, blood of
living beings, but part of her diet fortu-
nately is also the juice of plants. The legu-
minous plants contain a glucoside called
eoumarine. The Russian claims that this
destroys the capacity of the malarial mos-
quito to spread the disease.
Ivrysto’s first experiments were made in
the Caucasus, where he planted lucerne, with
the result that the disease was conquered
wherever attacked. In the Argentine, much
of the country carries a wild clover. Where
this grows, malaria does not flourish. Where
it is absent the disease is endemic. In those
parts of India where rice or other grains
are the staple crops, malaria is always
present. In districts where grain and other
leguminous crops are the rule, it is rai’e.
If the Krysto theory is borne out, vast
fertile areas now closed to civilised races
and of very little use to the primitives could
be opened up, and the fear of the over-crowd-
ing of this little globe of ours will be pushed
into the distance.
Support Australian Industries
“Nkose”: The Mandate for the former
German New Guinea possessions is held by
Australia, Australians fill the public service
and Australians hold most of the plantations
and fill most of the billets in the commercial
houses. One would naturally expect that
preference would be given Australian pro-
ducts and manufactures; yet the tinned
meat supplied to the Government native
police and laborers comes from —the Argen-
tine !
Dear Bulletin, —I read in B. 12/8/’3l
a short paragraph to the effect that Aus-
tralian woolgrowcrs were interested in a new
process perfected by Professor Midgeley, of
Bradford, for combing short wools. Even in
Bradford they comb wools much shorter than
three inches, but on French combs wools
from one-inch length are handled. And
to say that wools even shorter in staple
than one inch are rejected as waste is quite
incorrect. On the woollen cards, wools almost
too short to have two ends are treated;
this process is. of course, not combing, but
no wool is rejected as waste, i.e., as useless
or valueless. I feel sure Professor Midgeley
has been misreported.—Yours, Solo.
* ■-!= * *
“Mauri” : “Haikwau’s” weighed passengers
(B. l/7/'3l) have their counterparts on
New Guinea Goldfields to-day, where persons
as well as goods are scaled before entering
the ’planes. This is done not for assessment
of charges, but to check the weight of the
load. I’ve never heard of an extra charge
for O.S.’s.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company-
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
CHOIC
CIGAR
r%
*
6»
O
fellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
o the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome... .and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
RAIG AND AITHEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TO MEET THE TIMES
yjiD'
-
Melbourne* Premier Hotel
Reduces tariff 60% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
CATTLE IN CONFERENCE.
[For The Bulletin.]
All through the night they were moaning and
crying,
Lugubrious voices lamenting and sighing,
Bewailing their lot when they ought to be
eating,
And now in the morning they’re holding a
meeting.
The next thing will be a complete deputation
To wait on the manager down at the station,
And say that the fodder is not to their
liking,
And if lie can’t mend it they’ll think about
striking.
They’ll each have a vote and appoint a
spokes-bullock
To deal it out straight to this Mr. McCulloch,
And say, “Now look here, all the year shall .
be clover-time,
And when there’s no clover we will not
munch overtime.
“And the summer’s too hot, and the winter’s
too chilly,
And the water’s too wet, and the count rv too
hilly,
And eating all day is a terrible labor,
And all the best pasture belongs to your
neighbor.”
MAORI!, AND. ARNOLD WALL.
THE WOMAN ALWAYS PAYS.
DAD: “Where you been at this ungodly hour?”
ANDY: “To a darnce with Mag Coonan."
DAD: “What did it cost?”
ANDY: “Eighteenpence each.”
DAD: “Eighteenpence! Blanky extravagance.”
ANDY: “That’s what I told ’er — chuckin’ her money away on darnces" —
“Mauri”: One of the first impressions that
strike the traveller to the Mandated Terri-
tory is the absence of baths. This does not
mean that the residents don’t wash, but the
visitor can be excused for thinking so unless
he raises his eyes to the roof of the bath-
room. Even in the best hotels the portable
shower is universal. The water is heated in
a petrol-tin by a native attendant. During
the early morning he is kept busy lowering,
filling, and re-raising the showers. Sometimes
he fails to secure the rope, or me aged hemp
parts, and then the cylinder, weighted by a
couple of gallons of water, concertinas itself
on the concrete floor, or, if the bather is
unlucky, on his head. Sometimes the appa-
ratus fails to operate at all; then the
occupant has to lower the tin and bail the
water over himself with his shaving-mug.
Others require a delicate touch on the wire
or chain, only to be acquired after long prac-
tice. From some only a diminutive trickle
exudes, whilst others discharge their contents
in a deluge, uncomfortable if the water is
overheated. Some again have a nasty habit
of emitting streams of water in a horizontal
direction, missing the bather but inundating
his towel, bathrobe and slippers.
* * if *
“W.N.” : Frogs may not live for ever, but
it takes a lot to make them tired of life.
Some that were dug up on the Barwon, near
Mungindi (N.S.W.) recently while silt was
being removed from a bore were so dry that
when rubbed between the hands they disinte-
grated into powder. But some that were
placed in water as an experiment revived,
and after three or four days were swimming
about vigorously.
“E.S.” : “It’s funny when you come to think
of it,” said Larry, “why a bloke on the
track always camps alongside a tree, or
a stump, or a fence, or a log—all other habi-
tations bein’ absent. If I dossed right away
from timber every traveller who came along
would go over to see what was the matter
with me. Even the crows an’ hawks
would be hangin’ around. I know, ’cause I
went to sleep, dead beat, on a plain one
night, an’ when I woke, hours after sunrise,
I was the centre of a surprise party—seven
brown hawks, two eagles, an’ 49 crows. No
doubt they were right, too; a bloke does look
as if he’d dropped dead when he’s lyin’ out in
the open. But it’s a good place to get help
if you’re sick or lost.”
“Foumart”: I wonder where “Doe” (B.
19/8/’3l) picked up his ferret lore. His
suggestion that rabbiters should use ferrets
instead of traps is ludicrous, seeing that a
wholesale bag each morning is necessary to
make the game payable, and that the skin
of a rabbit which had been subjected to a
ferret’s ministrations would be worthless.
Ludicrous also is his description of a
ferret foiled by a rabbit “smothering up”
in a blind burrow returning to the sur-
face with his “claws” clogged with fur.
A ferret has no claws in the usual sense
of the word, and wouldn’t pluck fur
with them if he had. What he does in
SECESSION.
“Well, What do you think of the depression, Flourbag?”
"Aw, Australia no plurry good — this-pfeller goin Queensland!”
the circumstances referred to by “Doc” is
to begin his meal on the hindquarters so
invitingly offered by bunny, quite regardless
of the fact that his menu is alive. When
finished he curls up and goes to sleep; the
boss waiting up above can go to Hades for
all he cares. Then there is nothing for it
but to risk the loss of a ferret or dig down
to the brute and his wretched victim.
“Wyn”: Mention of lonely rest-
camps (B. 22/7/’3lj reminds me of
one a few miles from Dirranbandi
(Q.) Jhat I saw some months back.
During .a dry- spell 40-odd years ago
a member of my family and his mate,
riding over a pine ridge, came across
the very-dead-body of a swaggie -be-
side a dried-up watercourse. He had
evidently : been making for a station
some miles away, and had passed a
lagoon full of water about a mile
back. The police magistrate of the
day in St. George gave a verdict of
death from, thirst. The . body was
buried where it'lay,‘arid a sheet-of
galvanised-Tfon was stu’ek on end in
ground- as a tombstone. No
reference To the unknown swaggie or
date of the burial is marked on the
iron,’which r where it was
planted in the ’nineties.. : ~i
“Roga”: Regarding lonely graves
(B. ,12/8/’3l). The most notable
of my (acquaintance is Boomerang
■Brady’s,. tomb in the desert between
Anthony - Lagpon and Newcastle
Waters, in-the Northern, Territory.
A piece of cardboard inscribed with
the following usecLtp hang.on a sap-
ling stuck-into the neglected mound,
“Here lies Boorherang Brady, who
died from . fever, Dec. 23, 1926.
Grave cleaned up by Quinlan party,
Aug., 1927.” Brady was once
famxuis throughout Northern Aus-
tralia as a; great and fearless horse-
man; He got his name because he
always, came back. Among lonely
graves in xthe . Nor;-West are those ot Mrs.
Mary Jane Pascoe-(who died in 1875. aged
78),. at ia ' remote spot near Port George
iy., - and at Cygnet Bay (King Sound) of
Father Joseph Cullane (a French priest).
± i’fi ~\ * . «
“Fizzer” : There must be some peculiar pro-
perty in the water of a well on Donald
Munro’s station, Tareelaroi, Moree (N.S.W.).
The other day some employees fished up a
spanner which an old hand remembered hav-
ing dropped into the well 15 years ago. There
was not one particle of rust on the spanner,
which, after its long soak, seemed as good as
on the day it came out of the ironmonger’s
shop.
* * * «
“Shrike”: As one who has been much
exposed to magpies, let me heartily endorse
the contention of “Wippegong” that the
magpie., family is quite’ able to hold its own
without the assistance of protective coloring
(B. 19/8/’3l). One of the tribe, indeed,
with the assistance of his missus, came near
to breaking my neck. Riding a horse not long
out of the breaker’s hands, I was unlucky
enough to pass under a tree in which a
couple of ’pies were rearing a family. The
first intimation of hostilities was a piebald
streak of lightning flashing just past my
face, and this was followed by a swooping
attack by the married couple from front and
rear and both, flanks. Desperate efforts were
made to beat off'the attackers with a flap-
ping ,felt hat, and at this moment I was
mildly interested to find that I was high
up in the" air with the magpies, the tempera-
mental colt having seen to that. The birds
were evidently satisfied with the knock-out
that followed the forced landing, for when
T came to later there was no evidence that
they had proceeded to take it out of me
while unconscious. . .:, ..i
“Ivwinana” : It’s no use '‘Tiki’.’ ,relying on
,his. theory that; the kiwi must be indigenous
to Maoriland because it cannot fly. On
.Willis Island, the Federal "radio station 300
miles off the Queensland coast, where three
men segregate themselves during the cyclone
’season, there are wingless scavenging birds,
a variety of landrails. They are only
known, outside Willis Island, in certain parts
of Asia, to which continent they are said to
be indigenous, and, because pf their depre-
dations, the island would’soon know them no
more were they not protected. They are
cannibalistic in their instincts and eat fowl
eggs. As soon as the one'surviving hen on
the island (the others were victims to one
of the most interesting cyclones.)commences
to cackle, the; landrails form a queue at the
nest, and it is a race between the cook and
the landrails to get the egg.
* * * *
“Backaburk”: The anxious vigil on the
Darling while• the) flood was threatening the
level at Wentworth recalls the swamping of
Bourke in 1890. Bourke was a big town
then, and a Strong muster of flood-fighters
worked feverishly to keep it dry. Picks
and spades and, shovels wei’e requisitioned
from §tores rand houses for the job. In the
stream were several vessels standing by at
full steam —waiting expectantly for the
embankment to collapse. When a trickle came
through the soft top there was an excited
shout and a rush to stem the leak. But the
riyer was rising, the gang getting weary,
and more and more trickles occurred, till it
was realised at last that the task was hope-
less. Horsemen galloped through the town,
shouting wildly for everybody to make for
the steamers. The boats took 800 refugees
on board, and landed them at North Bourke,
farther up and on the opposite side. Before
then Bourke streets were deep under water,
and over the plains was a great brown sea.


I often wonder how old knights
Who wore ‘those natty suits
Of steel and chain mail; helmets, too!
And iron- things for their boots.
I say I often wonder how
These things they could endure,
To sneeze in armor and without
Some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.— Advt.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
SERVICE
The establishment of a Bank does not in itself establish a Banking
Service. It provides only the machinery which is to be operated by
man for the service of man. The human factor is the vital spark
that gives life to a mere aggregation of buildings, books and currency,
and makes of them a friendly, helpful service for the convenience of
the people.
- The Commonwealth Savings Bank extends its facilities throughout
the length and breadth of Australia, through Branches and Post-office
Agencies, and trained officers translate those facilities into understand-
ing, human service to the thrifty.
(.Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
CHEMIST SAYS
“HEENZO is the best family
cough and influenza remedy.”
A WONDERFUL MONEY-SAVER.
A leading chemist advises parents to save
money by making their own family cough
remedy by simply adding concentrated
HEENZO to sweetened water. By doing this
you will have a supply equal in quantity to
eight ordinary-sized cough-mixture bottles
that would cost up to £l. Heenzo is the
ideal family cough remedy because of its
absolute purity and freedom from narcotics.
Therefore, it is a safe and good remedy for
even the youngest baby, as well as adults, A
bottle'of concentrated Heenzo will cost you
2/- at all leading chemists and stores. Over
one million citizens annually prove the
goodness and economy of HEENZO as a
speedy and reliable remedy for banishing
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza,
and whooping cough. Thrift is a sign of
wisdom. Buy a bottle of HEENZO to-day.
and have it in the home for immediate use
at the first sign of chest and throat ailments.*
“Taniwlia”: The .world-wide extent of the
search made by record-ambitious motorists for
good beaches has shown that stretches of fine
sand, of 1 the sort that compacts to great, firm-
ness. are very rare. There arc only two long
beaches in the running: the one at Daytona
(U.S.A.), on which most of the records have
been made, and the northern Ninety-mile
Beach of M.L.—the Dominion boasts two
with that name. The fact that such sand
should be found in the Shivery Isles suggests
rhat there is something astray with the theory
that MX. is a territory of rather recent vol-
canic upheaval, geologically speaking. The
fineness of the sand in a beach depends on
the materials of its origin and the length of
time it has been part of a beach and subjected
to tidal attrition. Australia is held by
geologists to be the oldest of the continents,
but Australian beaches—l can sneak only,
for the east coast —arc composed of very
coarse sand compared with the M.L. beaches.
The M.L. sand ranges from a greyish yellow
to almost snow-white in color, with occasional
outcrops of red, but it is all very fine. This
fineness cannot be entirely a matter of the
hardness of the original material, for the cal-
cined rocks that yield red sand are so soft
ONLY FAIR.
ISLAND VIRAGO: “Now, then, have I made myself plain?”
HER VICTIM : “Oh, I dunno—I don’t think you did it all yourself.”
that they crumble between finger and thumb,
r suggest that if M.L. did rise up like what-
d’ye-caU-her out of the thingummybob' within
the last few thousand years, it was after a
comparatively short immersion.
“Tauwarra”: A couple of old hands, after
an alcoholic month at Samarai (Papua),
resolved when they, returned to the bush to cut
out the booze for good. Four bottles remained
unopened -in the, tucker-
box. Three were tossed
overboard; the other they
decided to retain;for?medi-
cinal . purposes. A /few
nights later Joe, was awak-
ened by liis mate tossing
about restlessly and groan-
ing in a most disturbing
manner. “What’s up?” he
inquired anxiously. “My
Gawd, Joe, I’m feelin’
crook!” gasped the other.
There was a pregnant
silence. Then : - “Yer too
late, mate,” said Joe sadly.,
“I was crook meself yester-
day.”
* :|: *
“Herpes” : That. contro-
versy about the poisonous
qualities of the bandy-
bandy snake (B. 12/8/’3l)
is as old : as the one over
the kangaroo’s lying-in
methods. The issue is com-
plicated by the fact that
the casual Australian,
according *to his location,
has named' several varieties
of . the co-re. in Adam -v.
Eve and An’r as bandy-
bandies. The true bandy-
bandy belongs to the coral
snakes. , Most of these
varieties are harmless to
humans, but some of them
develop ' highly i poisonous
qualities in the breeding-
season, when all snakes are
apti to ignore the conven-
tions. None of' the ’ com-
mentators on the bandy-
bandy and his peculiari-
ties seems to have taken
this fact into consideration,
and it might be worth while following up.
Kiplingites will remember the story of “The
German Flag,” when the collector Rhine-
gelder allowed a coral snake to bite him,
secure in his knowledge that Yates, the great
authority, had written that the coral snake
was not poisonous. Poor Rhinegelder’s. last
words were “Den Yates he haf lied, in brint.”
* * * *
“Bauwa”: When a white man is killed by
Papuan or New Guinea natives, as happens
occasionally, the affair gets plenty of pub-
licity in the Australian press, and people
want to know -what the Administration is
going to do in the way of retaliation. When the
white has reason to thank Ins dusky brethren
for saving -his life, few outside the local
circles ever hear of it, though the saving
of Mrs. Berge in the Gulf of Papua last
year by two Motuan members of the wrecked
vessel’s crew did draw a line or two in the
southern press. The history of Papua is
full of instances of heroism and-self-sacrifice
THE CONNOISSEUR.
Dave: “Beals me, Dad, how some silly cows can be bothered painting dorgs."
on behalf of their white bosses by Papuans,
not only in the ranks of the Armed Native
Constabulary, but among the employees of
traders and miners. One such, a solitary
digger named Elliott, was recently stricken
with paralysis while mining inland among
the mountains in the northern division. After-
doing what they could for him his “boys’
resolved to get him down to the coast and
thence to Samarai hospital, Putting their
boss on an improvised stretcher, they hacked
their way through the jungle over mountains
arid across rivers, bit by bit, uritil salt water
was reached, and Elliott landed in Samarai,
some 300 miles to the southward. That
he is now in hospital in Sydney and
not filling a hole in the Papuan mountains
is due solely to the courage and fidelity of
his nameless servitors.
*•••. . i * .*
“Runa”: Australia is lucky to be able to
contemplate wholesale mortality among the
native-bears without fear of a similar, .epi-
demic among the human population. Before
the last plague outbreak—a mild one—on
the west coast of the U.S.A. zoologists .were
perturbed by an epidemic among squirrels
and similar small bush animals, just as Aus-
tralia and MX. begin to take notice when
the rat population is obviously ill in bulk.
A Maorilander who held a professorial chair
at Harbin- .Urii. some years ago was interested
to learn from Manchurian trappers bringing
in'skins'that the small marmoset monkeys
were dying in the 1 interior in thousands.
Curiosity led him to investigate, and the
resultant - precautions he and his confreres
took probably saved their lives in. the terrific
epidemic of pneuirionic plague that devastated
Upper China shortly afterwards. His-experi-
ence led-him to look seriously at all animal
epidemics after that. i
“Mica”: “Tomb” asks (B. 12/8/’3l) if
there -is a more vividly-colored landscape in
the world than at Childers (Q.). There is,
and (don’t laugh!) it’s around Broken Hill.
Wild hops coloring an acre or so a brick-red
give way to the bright and shining yellow
of the everlasting, made even brighter by
the background of snowy “milkmaids” (tiny
white flowers with yellow centres clustering
tightly around a straight stalk to form a
graceful cone), their whiteness enhanced by
the presence beyond them of the blood-scarlet
Sturt-pea. In places there are clearly-
defined patches of each; in others they inter-
mix to make a glorious patchwork quilt.
“Avon” : A landscape that I will back
against “Tomb’s” is to be found at Red-
cliffs. near Christchurch (MX.). Redcliffs
is a little .residential suburb on a bay over-
looking the junction of an estuary with the
sea. As the name indicates, the hills that
surround the bay show red streaks that indi-
cate volcanic experiences—the whole of
Banks Peninsula was spewed up from craters
—but that’s onlyj>3, per cent of the color.
On a sunny summers morning the scene
includes a sapphire' sky, an emerald estuary
of golden sands, a turquoise-blue ocean, a
glimpse of powder-blue Alps and —most not-
able of all —great glowing splashes of orange
and scarlet ice-plants, fringing every terrace
of the cliffs. In the foreground is a fleet
of white-hulled yachts at anchor, and part
of the background is the warm yellowish
brown of the grasses that clothe the tall but
gently-rounded hills that fringe the bay.
I can imagine only one scene more brilliantly
effective in all Australasia, and I have to
imagine that because it isn’t complete at
present—Sydney Harbor with similar
splashes of bright scarlet ice-plant-to relieve
the rather dismal herbage of the foreshore.
The decorative value of this plant has been
realised by harborside dwellers, but the tints
run to purples and yellows, and the striking
hues of the sorts most favored in MX. don’t
seem to burgeon forth in this warmer clime.
:;c ❖ ❖ #
“FY7”: A lot of publicity has, been given
to a feat of tracking by Queensland
policemen which resulted in the recovery of
stolen goods. According to most of the
journals, Warrigal, had he stepped out
of the pages of “Robbery - Under Arms,"
couldn’t have done better in top gear. 'Pin-
property was pinched from a bush dwelling in
s.-w. Queensland, and the police, after track-
ing the robbers across country for 40 miles,
discovered some of it in a hollow log. Still
following the tracks for another 40 miles or
so, they encountered some freshly-dug ground
and in this the balance of the missing goods
was found. It was a great bit of sleuthing,
but the fact that the thieves used a heavy
motor-lorry to hump their loot about rather
discounts it. The tracker who could not
follow lorry tracks across new and otherwise
undisturbed country wouldn’t even qualify for
a job as a musterer of elephants.
“Kerys”: Curious how little the average
Australian in the country knows about his
native birds. Last year I became interested
in a winter visitant which was variously
named to me as “rain bird,’’ “storm bird,”
“snow bird” and “thunder bird,” it being
addicted to loud calling in inclement weather.
Of the other birds that regularly frequent
orchards and gardens nobody seems to know-
even the popular names, and they are dis-
missed as “cherry birds” or “quince birds”
according to the fare they seem to favor. I
find that, with the exception of the magpie,
the robin, the kookaburra and a few others
as easily identified, the vast number of birds
are. nameless to people who admit to years'
residence in one spot. When I took a de-
scription of the birds T wanted to identify
to the Sydney Museum, I found that out
of a dozen varieties not one had been cor-
rectly introduced to me.
FAR HILLS AND PLAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-day I would be riding
Where Spring, far-roving, spills
Her green and golden glories
On western plains and hills.
With laughing eyes'she wanders
Through sunlit, breezy hours,
And spreads’ her golden carpet
Of everlasting flowers.
With greener, softer lustre
She dowers the quandong-trees, '
Arid ancient rocks and ridges
She tints with desert-peas.
The root that slept through winter,
The sleeping seed she wakes;;
The : saltbush at her passing
A’ dewy, freshness,takes.
To-day I would be riding
Carefree, with light-held reins,
Across the Barrier Ranges
Arid o’er the saltbush plains.
My horse would be an Arab,
The glossiest of blacks,
And proudly he would amble
A-down the sunlit tracks.
Where Spring goes roaming, singing,
And weaving onXerlloom,
To-day I would be riding,
Through realms of radiant room.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


BRITAIN —MaKe Your Totir Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—BJ hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train,
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Head Office,
Brisbane
mBBBmSSx
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CCRPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary. E. V. BOOTH.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet • 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OP AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide
SMOKE-OH!
ē
“GEE, WHAT AN ’ONEYMOON I’M HAVIN’.”
do it?” he echoed. “I may claim to have
learnt the rudiments of my job studying
head-hunting of cows in the Movement.
The Trades Hall is a great place for axeing
’em, you know. From Joe Cook in the
’nineties to Ted Theodore of to-day, thou-
sands have been slaughtered there —some-
times with ballot-boxes, but oftener without.
It’s certainly a prime joint.” And the speaker
smacked his lips appreciatively. “As regards
myself,” he proceeded, “I played for high
steaks and won. The Nationalists gave me
the cold shoulder, but I know a good juicy
chop when I see one. My Parliamentary
experience will certainly stick to me in the
hide and tripe sections, and, when it comes
to landing the bacon —well, I’m usuallv there.
I have never yet been caught on the horns
of a dilemma, and electors follow me like
sheep. Good morning, comrade.”
McM.
# *
These days, a man’s bust friend is his
bother.
ft- ft-
“ The boys and girls are always a little ahead of
their seniors in opening the sea-bathing season.”
—' “S. M. Herald .”
Youth will be surfed.
ft ft-
“ Now comes the turn of Spring.”— “Herald.”
And Nature’s bound to give it “the bird."
ALL QUIET ON THE MILKY WAY.
(From “Memoirs of a Retired Butter
Gangster.”)
“ ‘lllicit sale of butter is being carried on by
numerous people in country districts,’ said Mr. D.
Kelly, at the conference of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association.” — “Sun.”
It was a great life while it lasted. There
were risks a-plenty, God knows! but the
red blood of young adventure coursed through
our veins, and the
profits were enor-
mous. As much as
Id. per pound at
times.
I remember hand-
ling a consignment
from “C o w f a c e”
Brown —one who
thought nothing of
bumping off his daily
dozen with his own
hands when labor was
scarce. What a
milker! “Cowfaee”
was determined to get
his stuff through by
car: “Czar” Lang,
the Macquarie-street
boss, was equally de-
termined that his
railways should have
their cut. I laugh
now when I think of
how we out-fought,
out-paced and cut-
in an ceuvred “the
Czar.”
The goods had been
loaded on my truck
—a Dud Minor, in
good going order ex-
cept for a missing
plug or two. Hardly
had the Dud given
her preliminary back-
fires when one of
“the Czar’s” trains
hove in sight and the
race was on. It was
them or us for it.
Both started flat out
at fully 15 m.p.h.,
Lang’s guards,
stokers, etc., keeping
up a merciless fire
of threats of legal
action, while we
responded with de-
fiant raspberries. I
won’t detail that desperate running battle.
Suffice it that we bbat Lang’s flier to Syd-
ney by minutes (averaging the staggering-
speed of 12 m.p.h. from cowbail to wharf-
side), and duly delivered the goods. My
cut was the best part of a grand—say,
17s. 6d.
* * * *
The wife is looking over my shoulder as
I write. She is still beautiful despite the
ravages wrought by her years as helpmeet
to one in daily conflict with the N. S. Wales
State Transport (Co-ordination) Act 1931.
Away from the direction of the eternal hills,
where “Cowfaee” dwells more or less hap-
pily with his mortgage, comes a plaintive
cry, which may be that of an assaulted bailiff,
‘The Czar,” once the terror of millions, is long
since dead politically, and back at suburban
house-agenting, “than which,” to quote old
Plautus, “there can be few deadlier games,”
while his masterpiece, the N. S. Wales State
Transport, etc., is also no more. The Dud
Minor is dead. too.
“Perhaps it was all for the best,” says the
wife gently, and taking the pen from my
failing fingers she writes, swiftly, firmly,
Finis.
CROWNING ACHIEVEMENT.
The party was jubilant. The new member
had acquitted himself well. His violent
abuse in debate, his foul lan-
guage, his deafening trucu-
lence had impressed the
Assembly. He had been
“named” and flung out dur-
ing his first session oftener
than any other member. In-
dubitably he possessed the
qualities necessary in a
strong leader. But there
remained a final test. Would
he emerge from it with
credit? Hardly was the pro-
blem posed than he answered
it, and by so doing con-
founded the last of his
critics. To the stupefaction
of the Opposition and coun-
try he suddenly revealed an
entirely new field of taxation
S. W. Tv.
¥ #
TOUGHER OF SPRING.
The touch of spring is in
the air, and (though I do
my best to block it) it often
takes me unaware, touching
me sharply in the pocket.
The shopmen touch their
windows up, and (though
finance now goes on crutches)
there is a touch in spring-
time’s cup to loosen even
misers’ clutches.
Touched by the bargain-
hunter’s zest, the wife in
tones as sweet as honey men-
tions the yearning in her
breast for clothes—and I
produce the money.
Fresh touches come in bar
and mart, for, with discre-
tion gone to glory, the touch
of new hope in my heart
wakes to the new touch in
the story of stone-broke friends. They lightly
speak of prospects that at present languish;
and so I part, in moments weak, with cash
whose loss will cause me anguish.
The income-tax bill adds its touch to all
the things that are unpleasant ; then there
come birthday calls and such —but I’ve no
money for a present! I’ll have to keep my
heart-doors shut to dodge these sharp, rapa-
cious clutches. I like the touch of spring-
time, but I’d like to do without its touches!
P. P.
ROUGH SPIN.
By darksome roads and lonesome ways 'he
drove his lady friend,
Who later looked as if she’d had a shock.
She said, “I had a ripping time” —and you
could comprehend
Her meaning bettei * if you sate her frock,
ft- *
The man who invented interest placed Aus-
tralia under a heavy obligation.
AND PROBABLY THE CHILD WAS
RIGHT.
FAIR STRANGER: “Your face is so familiar —
I’m trying to think who your mother
was before she was married.”
WILLIE: “I dunno. I don’t fink I had a
muvver then!”
“The British Government’s mediation between Sir
Philip Game and Mr. Lang would amount to an
attempt to save Mr. Lang’s face.” — “Herald.-
Those who have seen Mr. Lang’s face
doubt if it’s worth it.
* *
“Thomas Watt, a farmer, walked 20 miles to eom-
Pl ain to the Shire Council about the state of the
local 10a ds. “Sun,”
As Shakspeare prophesied centuries ago:
Watt boots it to complain!
¥ ¥
HER MOMENT.
She was the cynosure of everv eye as she
stepped through the portals of‘that quaint
o ld Gothic structure. Her arm clasped in
his, the man gallantly helped her to struggle
through the eager throng. With regal mien
she advanced towards the waiting car.
Cameras clicked. Women crowded closer,
There was a moment’s delay, and then the
THIS DEPRESSION.
Wife: “Oh. George, I did get a start. For the moment
I thought it was the man for the car instalments.”
doors of the gleaming equipage were flung
open. “Clever Mary” was assisted into
Black Maria by her police escort.
ft- ft-
“ ‘The Log Cabin’ was owned by a man who
must have weighed 20 stone.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Hence its alternative name —“Uncle Turn's
Cabin.”
NO COMPLAINTS.
“When I answer the last roll-call and should there
be l present any of the poor unfortunates whose lives
I have taken under this legalised system of slaughter,
I hope they will accept my sincere apology.”
—“Labor Daily” correspondent.
Newcomer: You, gentlemen, are all my
seniors here
By fifteen years or thereabouts, and yet
I fancy you will not dispute the fact
That it was up to me to make this move.
But for my fatal virtuosity
With bombs, revolvers, bayonets and
such
Most of you would no doubt be still
alive. '
In asking you to meet me here to-day
My aim is, firstly, to apologise
Old Hand : Don’t mention it, my lad, don’t
mention it!
Newcomer: But mention it I must. Ah!
had I known
What I know now concerning octopi
Who batten on the proletariat,
And live their worthless lives surrounded
by , ,
Vast stocks of gold, rare wines and
precious stones
Old Hand : Are not your comments, sir, in
doubtful taste,
Seeing that all our streets are made of
gold?
The stairs are jasper, and our beverage
Is rare ambrosia,
Voices: What Frits says is right.
Newcomer: Well, anyhow, I hope I man
express
My deep regret at having sent you here.
Voices : No need whatever to apologise.
We like the place, the people and the
life.
Newcomer: Would it be possible to get in
touch
With victims — er — Below?
Old Hand : I wouldn’t, lad.
You’d, find, they much prefer their pre-
sent home
To living in the world you’ve helped to
make.
MARCH OF EVIL.
“‘1 consider that the talkies are suggestive, a
source of evil, and I do not think people should go
to them,’ said a 94-year-old Burwoo-d resident to
the ‘Sun.’ She has never seen a screen play,
though she has lived near a cinema for 25 years.”
Tilings were bad enough in my early youth,
when stage fiends smoked cigarettes
A nd worked their wills on innocent girls in
bustles and flannelettes;
When musical-comedy actresses, in their mad
desire to please,
Exposed their legs to the public view as
far as their sinful knees.
I have witnessed sights in pantomimes—
transformation scenes, mid such,
With ballet-girls hopping about, in tights—
that shocked me very much;
And the jokes that they cracked in the music-
halls. when I was young and gay,
Were a sheer disgrace, and should have been
stopped, so I always used to say.
Bui far, far worse than any of them are
these talkies they put on the screen,
Not one of which—and that’s how T know—
have 7 ever heard or seen.
THE SELFISH SHELLFISH.
“On these rocks, when the tide is low, can be
found curious sea things.... and merry periwinkles.”
— “Sun.”
Fond lovers wander to the brink
Of maonUt seas, and what they say is
Enough to make the winkle wink
And chortle', as his cheerful way is.
The oyster is a silent bird; _
So when a cachinnating tinkle
Along the wave-washed rocks is heard
Folks murmur, “Ha! a periwinkle!
“A cynio periwinkle, who
Hears lovers’ talks when pale stars twinkle.
But never builds a home for two.
Ah wise and carefree periwinkle!
P.P.


F I j 1
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £35.
. Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 17th September
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 15th October
Christmas Excursion.
Lovely Rarotonga. Another 23 days’ tour
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI” from Sydney, 24th December, 1931.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £45; SECOND CLASS RETURN, £34
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S.S. CO. OF N.Z, LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8393.
e
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
è
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 .. ~ •• •• £89,228,378
General Manager , ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St.,. E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
—1
—• V s
V
•:#
Big Foreign Trade Meeting
in Hawaii, May, 1933
BUSINESSMEN, Buyers and Executives of Australia should make
their plans now to attend the big National Foreign Trade Conven-
tion at Honolulu next year. Hawaii is already arranging a special
welcome and entertainment for those who attend. Honolulu has been
selected as the central location for business leaders of the whole Pacific
area, to gather and discuss and transact trade to their mutual benefit.
Leaders of American industry have indicated their intention to be
present, and it is expected that other countries will have distinguished
representatives at the meetings, May 4th, sth and 6th, 1932. It is
hoped that leaders in Australia will take full advantage of this oppor-
tunity to attend the greatest meeting on International Commerce ever
held in the Pacific area—open to all who care to register as delegates.
Following the trade meeting in Hawaii, another is being called in San
Francisco by the Chamber of Commerce. In addition, the Fourth
Pacific Rotary Conference will meet in Hawaii, preceding the Rotary
International Convention at Seattle in June of that year.
Special excursion fares available. First-class accommodation from 15/-
per day, including meals.
For further details and any information about the trip to Hawaii, see
vour nearest steamship or travel agent, or write for literature direct to
Hawaii
H
Dept.
17.
Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 8.8.,
G.P.Q., Sydney
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAY BEST OS
ft Silver Edge”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
The latest colour blends for style
and correctness, elasticity of ten-
sion for snugness of fit and all-life
shape and appearance, mark
“Rameno” Sweaters and Hose as
superior garments. Add the super
quality of the soft Australian wools
and the great care in making, and
“Rameno" stands pre-eminent for
Comfort, Health and Economy in
Men’s Knit-wear.
For HEALTH and
ECONOMY
RAM ENO
&f£MNO-KIV/T"
CARDIGANS SWEATERS
SOCKS andGOXf STOCKINGS
_ Merino*
Q/flAlwaijsFit”
RAMENO "MERINO-KNIT” garments are knitted from the
finest Australian Merino Wools by the MERINO WOOLLEN
MILLS PTY. ltd., the Specialist Manufacturing House
for Men’s Super-Quality Knit-Wear.
STOCKED BY ALL LEAD/A/G MEDCEDS
First Prize to Q. P. S.
sens
n
FENCING WIRE
FENCE STANDARDS
WIRE STRAINERS
Autoscrew Droppers
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES LIMITED^
We are proud to announce that we
again secured first prize at the Brisbane
Exhibition for Hibiscus Fencing Wire,
including Hibiscus Barb; also New Era
Separators.
BIG SAVING ON ALL GOODS
YOU BUY FROM US.
Remember all our Prices include latest
6% Sales Tax. There is no further
addition. We supply anyone direct
FENCING WIRE
GALVANISED IRON
Q.P.S. 3-PLY WOOD
UNSEED OIL
FIBRO-CEMENT SHEETS
Sole Agents for the Genuine Hibiscus —we warn buyers that
no other Firm can supply Hibiscus.
Bg. Galv. Hibiscus Wire ™ ‘
12Jg. Barb—3 coils to mile ••••'
12§g. Competitive Barb—4 coils to mile ••• 1 *>/t> con
26g., 28/15/- ton; Spouting, 26g., sin., 1/2; and Bulge Capping,
15in., 26g., 1/7 per 6ft. length. Tank material for 1000-gal.,
complete, 75/-, including 6 per cent. Sales Tax.
6ft. x 3ft., 12/6 per 100 sq. ft., less 5 per cent., or 2/- per
sheet nett. This is the best material for lining rooms.
Raw, 6/3; Boiled, 6/5, gal. WHITELEAD: 13/6 keg.
Paint, Crown, ready-mixed, Standard quality, 10/6 gallon.
2/10 sq. yard, including latest 6 per cent. Sales Tax.
Cement, J-ton lots, 5/2,; less, 5/5 bag.
VENUS SUPER MOTOR SPIRIT-First-grade Supei^ Motor Spirit, in 44-gal. drums,
VFNIJS SUPER POWER KEROSENE —in 44-gal. drums, 1/1 gallon. We will quote
r- on delivered price anywhere—which will show you a big
saving.
As Sole Agents for the New Era, we offer you the very latest
with all modern improvements. You get direct factory prices,
namely:— „ n
15-gal., £4/10/- 22-gal., £7 30-ga, £9
45-gal., £l2/10/- 60-gal., £l6 9 . ( H ra1 /’ £i ?o
Write for New Eva Separators Booklet. It is ridiculous to
buy any other and pay more.
We take the output of Brisbane’s leading factory. Look at
the Prices for a Single Can.
2-gal. 3-gal. 4-gal. 5-gal. 6-gal. 8-gal. 10-gal.
17/. 18/- 19/- 21/6 23/9 26/3 29/3
(Less 10 per cent.)
In 5-cwt. drums, about 44 gallons. Price 30/- drum
Drums free.
Medicated Rock Salt, in large 501 b. blocks, supersedes
ordinary Rock Salt, lasts three times as long. Price, 6/9 per
block; or £l2/15/- per ton.
To Government Formula, 12/- per bag; or £ll ton.
We will mix in our latest Electric Mixers any formula you
want, and show you pounds a ton saving.
All our prices include latest 6 % sales tax.
SEPARATORS
CREAM CANS
MOLASSES
LIXIT
HIBISCUS STOCK LICK
There is no further addition.
Write for our large illustrated, copyrighted Catalogue. It will save you pounds.
Lowest also for all GROCERIES—GALV. PIPING—TENTS—COOL SAFES—
TOOLS—PAINTS—PAINTING MATERIAL—WIRELESS—CEMENTS, etc.
DIRECT CASH BUYERS FOR ALL WOOL, HIDES.
OPOSSUM SKINS, ETC. WRITE FOR DETAILS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.


Pl*’
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
-S.
.THINK OP
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you hav*
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,C00,000
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - - - 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Director*:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Horn JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-Genera] the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world.
\ll Classes ot General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con*
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEYV SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THEMAN
ON THELAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
SOIL EROSION.
“L’Fou”: Damage done by this winter’s
floods will be assessed by many in terms of
loss of stock, crops, fencing, etc. But the
greatest and most permanent damage is loss
of soil carried away. Denudation is an
inevitable and natural accompaniment of
heavy rains. But the greed and careless-
ness of man has tremendously accelerated
the process.
Broadly speaking, wastage of soil is least
on forest lands, more on open grass-lands,
and heaviest on 'deeply-cultivated land; and
it is usually the best of land that is culti-
vated, the not-so-good that is grazed and
the poorest and most inaccessible that is left
as forest. *
To many people soil erosion means gullies
and washaways, or bare patches from which
all .soil has been scoured. These, however,
represent only the later stages. Sheet ero-
sion, a steady, insidious leakage over a wide
area, will have been going on long before
these appear.
While no farmer can be expected to forego
eating his cake of fertile soil, he might still
use it with such discretion that he may
have it to-morrow. In cultivating undulat-
ing land of a loose texture, some form of
terracing may be called for, or embankment,
following land contours. Consideration ot
drainage is inseparable from soil conserva-
tion. Let your grass land be well-grassec
land never eaten right out Beware of over-
stocking, top-dress if necessary, and aim at
perennial grasses. Use the stitch in time
to stop washouts. One Digger has brought
an idea from trench defence to deal with
these. He builds a barrage of sandbags—
old super, sacks filled with soil and couch-
grass roots, which presently form a close-
Try to think of trees as soil-conservers,
not enemies. Better still, instead of trees,
plant arboreal crops. While any tree mai r
give shade and shelter, many will yield as
well a definite return in fodder, fruit, bark
or timber for their keep. A few suggestions:
Kurrajong, elm, willow (fodder), nut-bear-
ing trees (a big field for experiment here),
cork elm (the commercial bark is stripped
without killing the tree), wattles (tanning
bark), basket willows (withes), New Zea-
land flax (in swampy places).
At least, the tree-lined stream should be
definitely part ot our landscape. A stream
with thick vegetation on its hanks tends to
build a natural levee for itself, a, '[with tv e
sucecedmg. flood debris will be held ther .
All river frontages in Vic. are Crown land.,
usually held on leasehold by adjoihing !and-
holders. It would be well if t e ■
Department would make some con “ s -'o v J
way of remission of rent, to those lan _
who, by suitable planting or other means,
weiT endeavoring to conserve both the
nation s soil and its stiea .
OUR MERINO WOOLS.
“Irad”: Touching this adverse criticism
abroad regarding our merino wools, many of
us growers think we have a greater cause
for complaint than the buyers. In growing
two points present themselves: —
(1) Quality of fibre
(2) Quality of texture.
™ . , . , , r, . .--i Q +i in
The two are closely allied hut whil e the
former refers to the coarseness or the fine-
ness of the wool as exemplified by tne
“count” or grade, the latter covers all classes
irrespective of breed, and implies how the
wool is bred in its essential features and
characteristics
As to the quality of texture, how is this
to be defined ? Well, we will substitute a
simpler term—style. Style embraces all
those features in wool growth that distin-
guisii one sort frc*n another. The distin-
guishing features embrace: (1) Quality
(meaning coarseness or fineness); (2)
length; (3) condition.
Quaiity is the prime factor in wool-growth,
Quality takes a wide range, from the coarse
sixties to the superfine grades. It naturally
follows that the coarser the fibre the greater
its length, and vice versa. Just as length
combines with quality, so does condition fol-
low. That is to say, the coarser the wool
the higher its yielding power ; in other words,
the less yolk does it contain.
There still remains another outstanding
feature. This is crimp. Crimp may be
taken as the true sign-manual of wool, dis-
tinguishing it from hair, and one grade from
another, and wools of similar kinds. It is
peculiarly allied to' quality, in so far as
the broader its form the coarser the fibre
and the greater the length. Generally, the
more contracted the crimp the firmer and
more resistant is the fibre. In contra-
distinction, the broad, open wave reveals
looseness of growth and openness of texture.
The recognition of style is not a matter
for the breeder alone. A little more appre-
ciation for it should be shown on the part
of the buyers themselves. It would appear
as though rule-of-thumb methods were com-
monly applied in assessing the value of our
wools, and the grower who aims at style does
not alw 7 ays receive all he is entitled to.
BREEDING STUD STOCK.
“Golightly”: Young stock-farmers should
consider establishing a stud on their pro-
perties—of farm horses, cattle or slieeji. The
interest and knowledge thus gained w 7 ould
wed them to tlieir work and the land.
Hitherto, amongst Australian farmers the
big idea has been to make a quick rise, then
sell out and duck to the city. Studmasters
are absorbed in their job and stay with it.
Many a farmer, in error, thinks it hopeless
with his restricted cash resources and know-
ledge to attempt to compete with the long-
established flock- and herd-masters. That is
not the point. Jack Smith, his neighbor, will
be the competitor, while both bank accounts
will benefit from improved stock.
In stud-breeding accurate records are
essential. I keep the following simple but
efficient cards:—
20/l/’OO Krubi 315 f Wagga Pm. ram 175
1 Bathurst Farm 23C
l/l/’O2 Krubi’s Girl E 502 Cowra Boy 278
3/5/’O3 Boy Krubi R 612 Wagga Farm 175
15/9/’O5 Krubi’s Nugget R (Cast) Rivers 10
This is simple. It shows Krubi born Jan.
20, 1900, recorded as No. 315; sire, Wagga
Farm No. 175; dam, Bathurst Farm No.
236; all Krubi’s lambs and their sires. Also
at a glance can be seen her fecundity or
otherwise. Upon the back of the card any
other facts about this sheep or her get
can be noted.
GOOD MONEY IN HORSE-BREEDING.
“Centurion”: Horse-buying in Australia
for the overseas market was once a cushy
job. Buyers at the big sales which used
to be regularly held in such places as Char-
ters Towers, then the centre of a flourishing
cattle district, were honored guests, and their
chief trouble lay in winnowing out the
choicest of the many fine sorts pushed at them
from all quarters. To-day the buyer, a per-
son little sought after, has a full-time job.
Instead of getting his goods in one lot in
a few days, be has to collect them from here,
there and everywhere at much added trouble
and cost.
In other days if a consignment to places
like India did not come up to military re-
quirements, there was always a good market
among the white civilians. At the worst,
native buyers were always to be found to
take the final rejects off his hands.
Matters have altered for the worse. It
is common knowledge in the trade that of
the 6000 or so remounts sent overseas last
year a large proportion has been rejected.
The motor-car, which long ago cut out the
trade in carriage horses, has now made the
saddle-horse which is not up to military
standard unsaleable, except at a loss.
In days when the beef trade is in the dol-
drums and good thoroughbred sires and mares
can be obtained dirt cheap, it would seem
worth the while of cattlemen, in North
Queensland particularly, to go in for horse-
breeding for the remount market. For many
years to come the Indian Army, at least, will
require some thousands of borses yearly.
Breeders would have to sit down for four
or five years before they could market their
stock. While waiting they might breed good
draughts, a type now scarce. There is abund-
ant evidence that the Australian farmer, for
one reason and another, is weakening on
tractors, while the vogue for the motor-lorry
in the towns is also passing where short
hauls come into the question. It has to be
remembered, too, that there are markets for
the saddle-horse and gunner other than
India. The Netherlands East Indies and
Japan are good buyers, and in their case the
high quality demanded by the Indian market
is not insisted on. There is an opening here
for getting second-quality stuff off a man’s
hands. Given careful breeding methods and
up-to-date marketing, there seems no reason
why utility horsebreeding as an Australian
industry should not be brought back to its
old-time standard.
H'ORNLESS BULLS.
“Poley”: The Abe-deen Angus matures
very early and *•.. .mis well at any age.
Being they are lighter than
either Shorthorns or Herefords. They usually
dress a higher percentage of choice cuts than
other breeds. Their quality is unsurpassed,
the meat being marbled by fat and fine-
grained ; thus they are sought after by
farmers producing baby beef. But cattle-
men should see that they are not herded at
mating time on a run with bulls of other
breeds.
Three years ago I joined with cows
a high-priced Angus and a first-class Here-
ford bull in the same paddock, and got very
few Angus calves. Being puzzled, the fol-
lowing season I carefully watched the herd,
and soon saw that the Angus was no
match for the horned bull, and obviously
could not hold his own. I placed him with
cows in a paddock separately, and results
justified it.
The following are standard live weights
of full-conditioned mature bulls: Shorthorn,
I,Boolb. to 24001 b.; Hereford, 19001 b. to
22001 b.; Aberdeen Angus, 18001 b. to 21001 b.
Exceptional beasts will, of course, weigh
more.
ESTIMATING WEIGHT OF CATTLE.
“Tuan”: To arrive at an approximate
estimate of the dead weight of cattle, the
following measurements are required: (1)
Girth; (21 distance from the forepart of the
shoulder-blade to the tailliead. Square the
girth (i.c., multiply it by itself), and mul-
tiply the result by five times the length.
Then divide the product by 21. The answer
gives the weight of the four quarters in
terms of stones (141 b.). Very fat cattle
weigh about one-twentieth more and poor
cattle about one-twentieth less than the
result obtained by the foregoing method.
In estimating dead weight, 641 b of carcase
and 481 b. of offal per lewt. is the usual thing.
—i
LARGE WHITES AND BERKS. ,
“W.D.Mc.”: I may not be as fully posted
as Fairchild and Clutterbuck (B. 5/8/’3l)
in the history of the Large White, but I
have before me a stock book, published 50
years ago, which describes them as a “large
coarse pig, not to be compared with the Berk-
shire for meat.” That description holds good
to-day. What Denmark and Canada are
doing does not prove that the pig that suits
a cold climate will fill the bill in a hot
country like this. If Berkshires and Middle
Yorks are too fat that is the fault of the
feeder, not the pig. The public demand to-
day is for small joints, and you cannot get
them from a Large White. The man who
would prefer the leg of a Large White to
that of a natty Berk, or Tam. cross ought to
see a doctor. Messrs. F. and C. say Large
YVhitos “have come to stay.” I hope to
live long enough to see them go, like the
Vermont Merino, Hampshire Down and
Shropshire sheep—all unsuited for Australian
conditions.
“G.H.N.”: A Vic. friend fed four Large
White cross pigs in one sty and five Berk.-
Tam. cross pigs in another. The four Large
Whites ate more feed than the other five.
Prices realised per head were the same; in
other words, he had the proceeds of the five
Berk.-Tams, for the same amount of feed
as the four Yorks, consumed. We’ve heard
a lot about the superiority of Yorks, as
baconers. Recent prices at Melbourne sales
were, for Yorks.: 1371 b., 435. 6d.; 1441 b.,
51s. 6d.; 1601 b.. 48s. Gd. Berk.-Tam. cross:
1281 b.. 445. 6d.; 1321 b., 465. 6d.; 1441 b.,
525. 6d.; 1541 b., 555. 6d. Doesn’t look as if
the buyers saw much coarseness or heavy
bone in the Berk, blood.
THE WAR ON PRICKLY-PEAR.
“Ilollymount” : Disturbing statements have
been made that the cactoblastis caterpillar,
which has done such wonderful work in pear-
stricken parts of Queensland, is being wiped
out in its turn by a mysterious disease. How-
ever, the Queensland authorities report that,
though the destroyer has been having a bad
time in some districts, his affliction is a well-
known one and common to all caterpillars,
from silkworms upwards, or downwards. In
some of the districts affected the worm has
re-established himself and is going stronger
than ever.
This is good news to those familiar
with the devastation wrought in south-
western Queensland by the accursed pear. It
caused the abandonment, not only of small
holdings, but of big stations. Runs that
once carried a good head of cattle in a few
years became so chokid with pear that the
scrub lands w 7 ere inaccessible to afiything but
snakes, while in more open country conditions
were almost as bad.
Cactoblastis has done his job well. Still,
the pear trouble can only be thoroughly over-
come by close. settlement. There is little
hope of beating the cactus where it has got
a hold on big runs. The caterpillar will cut
it down in the first instance, but the work
needs to be supplemented by human eradica-
tion of the second and third growths.
SLIDES.
“Mulgo”: A slide is a useful conveyance
on the farm. It is easier and quicker to
load than cart or dray, and when small lots
of produce have to be shifted a short distance
there is no heavy lifting. It is also con-
venient for bringing in logs, and with remov-
able sides it is better than a cart for
carrying pumpkins. The thing is, simple to
make, but to give satisfaction it has to be
properly made.
I was farming on a part of the Richmond
River in days when nearly everybody used
nothing but slides. There were several sorts,
the most primitive being the fork of a small
tree. That is still commonly used for draw-
ing water, the cask being laid across the
prongs. It is a heavy load for a horse to
drag, and is never .satisfactory. For a
proper slide, take two hardwood slabs, I2in.
by 2in. and sft. or 6ft. long for the runners.
Plane the bottom edge, rounding off the
corners slightly, and bevel the front ends.
Mortise in three crosspieces, Gin. x l£in..
shouldered against the runners, and placed
so that the decking will be level with the
top. Oneunch pine boards or casing are
the best for the deck, and the slide should
be about 4ft. wide. A piece of thin iron, such
as a part of an old tyre off a spring-cart,
screwed on to the bottom of the runners will
save them from wearing. With this protec-
tion pine runners may be used.
Some farmers, instead of using runners,
fit the home vehicle with wooden axles and
block wheels, sawn off a small log. This
is not a slide, but answers the same pur-
pose. On level ground it is better, being
easier to pull, and doesn’t cut ruts in the
road, as the constant use of runners does.
With shafts it can be made to do all the work
of a cart, and Will answer in hilly country
as well as on the levels. The home vehicle,
whether on runners or wheels, is particu-
larly handy for drawing a tank of water
from the dam or creek.
WELDING.
“Jethro Tull”: Welding is not a difficult
job when the underlying principles are
understood.
A good fire is essential. Use either coke
or good coal. Actually coke is the heating
material. It is formed from the coal on
the hearth by the action of the fire. The
value of the coke lies in its slow combustion
and its freedom from smoke and flame. It
also serves as a cover for the fire, keeping
the heat in the centre. Should the fire break
through, heat is lost and it becomes diffi-
cult to make a weld. A good supply of coke
should be formed, removing any clinkers
present.
The quantity of air present is another im-
portant point. With too little air, heating
is slow; with an excess, great heat is evolved,
the fire cannot use the whole of the air and
some combines with the iron, whereupon
burning takes place. Superficial heating is
of little use, the iron cooling before a weld
can form.
It is not possible to prevent the formation
of some scale, but the effects of this may be
reduced to a minimum by the use of a flux.
Either sand or borax may be used, or a
mixture of three parts of sand to one of
borax. This is thrown on when the iron
is at a yellow heat; it melts, covering the
heated surface and thus forming a covering
against the air. Any scale present is melted
and flows from between the weld, thus per-
mitting a perfect union.
The two pieces of iron to be welded should
be at the same temperature. If of different
sizes heat the larger portion first. W r atch
the condition of the iron. At a certain stagy
it will become pasty and the two pieces will
show a tendency to adhere. This is the
right temperature for welding. Join the
Weld, working quickly so that no heat is lost.
.QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Charge for loading hulk wheat into
vessels at Sydney? (2) Where can I obtain
particulars as to Sydney port charges and
ctjpt of loading bagged wheat and wool into
vessels? —4967.
(1) The charge for loading bulk wheat
into vessels at the Sydney terminal elevator
is included in the elevator charge of 2|tl.
per bushel, which includes services in con-
nection with receiving the wheat in country
elevator, transferring it to the terminal ele-
vator at Sydney, and loading it in vessel
alongside the terminal wharf. This includes
free storage up to July 31 following the har-
vest. (2) Port charges from Sydney Harbor
Trust ; others from Sydney wheat and wool
merchants.
(1) Is it advisable to have lucerne seed
inoculated before planting? (2) Where can I
hare it done, and at what cost? (3) Can the
culture be procured and. the seed treated ,on
the farm? (4) Would this method be
cheaper or as satisfactory?— so39.
(1) If lucerne is being sown for the first
time in any locality, it may be advantageous,
afibovgh not always so, to introduce the
nitrifying bacteria. It has usually been
done by spreading soil from ah established
lucerne field at seeding time. (2) So far
(Continued on Page 26.)


QUALITY COUNTS
BEST MACHINES—BEST SERVICE
THE”N§frWS¥ Milker
* I H*
s® *
:
&&C'
Holds the Record for
Pure Milk Production,
Low Running Costs.
SELECTED AND PURCHASED
FOR QUEENSLAND AGRICUL-
TURAL HIGH SCHOOL AND
COLLEGE, GATTON, ON ITS
MERITS, BEING FIRST IN
1. Hygiene. . 2. Simplicity.
3. Efficiency.
4. Minimum of Rubber Fittings.
5. Lowest First Cost and Cost
of Upkeep.
With 4 unit “NEW WAY” you
will milk 40 Cows one month
C. T. Gomall’s 25-Stall Milking Shed, on one tin of Petrol only.
Morningside, Brisbane.
Ss
BRITISH “PRINCESS”
CREAM SEPARATOR.
Lasts Longer and Skims Better than
any Foreign Machine.
Cheaper than ever.
15-gallon Separator £lO 0 0
22 „ „ 12 0 0
30 „ „ 13 10 0
50 „ 20 0 0
75 „ „ 25 0 0
100 „ „ . 32 10 0
130 „ 37 10 0
F. 0.8., BRISBANE.
The 100- and 130-gallon sizes complete
with special 40-gallon Vat and Tap Top.
Easy terms and liberal allowance on old
machines.
W. A. PRESTON & CO.
Dairy Machinery Merchants,
175-179 ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have
been reprinted and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a
thing about book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and
shown how accounts are kept. Every entry is explained in the
simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a
proper basis and keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made
and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing
that he was going back a little further every year. Had he
known in time he might have made changes that would have
saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to
keep accounts is that they assume he knows something about
book-keeping.
“The Bulletin,” at the request of scores of farm readers,
decided to produce a cheap textbook in which the whole
business of book-keeping would be dealt with from the very
beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within
the means of everybody. It will be sent from any “Bulletin”
Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be
found just as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto
had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
UNDERCUT Stump Jump Disc Cultivating Plough
m
Sn
■I
wwiw
«■!
■ .
:; ;
;
M 4
1
m
m
*
■
I
::
H
.
:::
m
m
m
m
SB
m
m
a
s»
Hit
■ '
■
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
mm
m
ffISS
*
■
ass
»
sag
§j|P
- $
m
ffli
l -
'
m
mm
■
HU
H
1
Hi
BBS
•: ■■
■Mik
a
1
.. .
■
si
Unexcelled for work in
Yankee grubbed country
and amongst Mallee stumps.
10-Disc Size cuts 5 feet
14-Disc Size cuts 7 feet
Deals effectively with Paddymelon,
Stinkwort and other heavy weed
growths.
Supplied with Team Levers, dr with
Forward Levers for Tractor use.
The Sundercut has a greater sale in
Australia than has any other disc
implement.
It works successfully in any type of
country, amongst stumps and stones,
in hard-set fallow, in virgin Mallee
soils, and in fallow rank with weeds.
The alternate 20-inch and 18-inch
discs are set with undercut, a factor
that greatly reduces draught. Also,
the varying throw of the different-
sized discs leaves the surface of the
soil in that granular state wherein most
benefit is derived from rainfall and
atmospheric conditions.
The discs cut a level bottom.
The Differential Cog Jump allows a
high jump without increase of draught.
FARMERS! Write for Catalogue of all Sunshine Manufactures and List of Reduced Prices.
H. V. McKay Massey Harris Pty., Ltd.
Sunshine Harvester Works,
Sunshine.
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street
West, Sydney. 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS (QLD.), LTD.,
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


The toughest sole
obtainable
Extra strength and extra comfort
are two outstanding features of this
Abbey Shoe.... heavily soled with
the best available leather. Each
full or half size is made in four
fittings, narrow, medium, wide and
extra-wide. The upper is built in
a natural curve which obviates all
tightness over instep.
ORDER BY POST.—State both width and
size, and ask, alsq, for a supply of Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF . . . . 33/6
TAN CALF .. 33/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 Years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St., Sydney
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
inrti
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
Couchs
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
of Queensland’s
Entire Population *
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
SThe (louder.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
Fou can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
®he (ffouder.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
'Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
r>
;vi;p« RurauTopics.Dairying.
P Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
Notes Etc ....All in
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
« ON SALE ALL STATES C>-
\\\
H J
len the days have turned into weeks
and the weeks lengthened into months, it
is then you’re pleased you took the advice
of your Garage* man and bought an
tlxibe
The Long Life Battery
FOR CARS, RADIO <»<! HOME LIGHTING
DISTRIBUTORS:
Brisbane—Exide Battery Service (Q.), Ltd.
Sydney—Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Melbourne —A. P. Sutherland.
Adelaide—Unbehaun and Johnstone, Ltd.
Perth —*M. J. Bateman, Ltd.
Hobart—Medhurst and Sons Pty., Ltd.
Ltd.).
as is known it is not undertaken commer-
cially. (3) Yes; cultures made in America
can be obtained, but only limited supplies
are available because there is no demand
here. The Science Branch of the Vic. Agri-
culture Department could probably supply
cultures of the bacteria taken from the roots
of lucerne. (4) In America the bottle of
bacterial cultures recommended for a bushel
of seed costs about 2s. Treatment of the
seed just before sowing is desirable.
What are the chief factors in the success-
ful cultivation of jute. Gould jute be grown
profitably in W.A. or Q'land?—— 479B.
Good land, adequate summer rainfall,
warm to hot temperature and cheap labor.
There is an abundance of good land in W.A.
suitable for the cultivation of jute, also
abundant warmth and moisture; but in very
few parts is there sufficient regular summer
rainfall. Also, you can’t get cheap labor in
Australia.
(1) In the event of a new State being
created in northern N.S.W., ivould milk sup-
pliers in the new State have a right to sell
their products hi the metropolitan area?
(2) Could a hostile Government in the city
impose harsh restrictions on supplies of
mead, butter and milk coming from the new
Slate ? (3) Under the present system of
butter distribution, can one State send
butter into another State unless there is a
shortage declared? (4) What quantity of
butter is produced in the area that the
promoters of the separation movement pro-
pose to leave attached to Sydney? —49s9.
(1) Milk suppliers in the proposed new
State would have the same right to sell their
product in the metropolitan area as they
possess now. (2) The only restrictions
which a hostile Government could place on
milk, butter, meat, etc., coming from a new
State could be through differential railway
rates, but there would be a heavy shortage
in the metropolitan area if this policy were
adopted. (3) There is no restriction. This
is a matter of inter-State freetrade, gov-
erned by the Federal Constitution. (4) The
actual figures are not available, but it is
safe to say that at least one-third of the
total butter production of N.S.W. comes
from the area of the proposed northern
State.
(1) How do the dairy production of Aus-
tralia and M.L. compare (a) in regard to
product per cow, (b) in regard to propor-
tion of produce retained for home consump-
tion? (2) Do the Maorilanders eat more
butter and cheese than Australians or Danes?
(3) How has M.L. been able to build up
such a large export trade in dairy produce?
(4) Could Australian dairy production be
increased to any considerable extent? —5321.
(1) (a) In 1929 M.L. dairy production
averaged 166.71 b. butter, 145.61 b. cheese,
15s. Bd. worth of preserved milk per cow.
Corresponding Australian figures (1928-29)
are 125.091 b. butter, 13.041 b. cheese and
265. 2d. worth of preserved milk. In addi-
tion, of course, both countries provided for
domestic milk supply. (6) M.L. exported
80.4 per cent, of its butter and 99.08 per cent,
of its cheese production. Australia exported
35.3 per cent, butter and 25.5 per cent,
cheese. (2) M.L. butter consumption per
capita : 1929, 24.71 b.; cheese, 1.311 b. Aus-
tralia (1928-29): butter, 29.581 b.; cheese,
3.531 b. Denmark (1928) ; butter, 11.511 b.;
cheese, 2.781 b. (3) Largely owing to strict
Government grading of the product and the
formation of herd-testing associations, result-
ing in a steady improvement of the butter-
fat production per cow. Suitable climate
and soil are also factors. (4) Yes, parti-
cularly in N.S. Wales, Queensland and West-
ralia.
(1) Value of farm machinery and imple-
ments imported into Australia for year ended
■June 30, 1930? (2) Amount of money spent
in N.S.W. on construction of railways out-
side Sydney and suburbs? (3) Annual loss
on country railways? —sl49.
(1) £443,707. (2) Up to June 30, 1931,
£60,091,043, besides £11,760,147 spent on
lines between Sydney and Iviama and Home-
bush and Waratah, embracing both Sydney
and country areas. (3) Not available,
but in the Commissioners’ report for the year
ended June 30, 1930, the loss on certain sec-
tions amounts to £1,675,548.
Some of my fowls have developed swelling
at the joint between the leg and the foot.
Cause and remedy? —sos4.
It is possibly gout or bumblefoot. Gout of
the joints is due to inflammation of the parts,
and is accompanied by an excess of uric acid
and deposits of urates in and around the
joints. This is a complaint frequently found
in old birds rather than in young stock,
('specially those fed excessively on a highly
nitrogenous ration. The disorder can best
he prevented by cutting animal foods out
of the diet. Bumblefoot, the symptoms of
which are a swelling upon the sole of the foot
or between the toes, is generally caused by
a pus-forming organism gaining entrance to
the foot through some abrasion. The trouble
is more pronounced in Leghorns than in most
breeds. Treat by painting the foot daily with
iodine for one week, then lance and remove
hardened pus. Paint cavity with iodine and
bind foot to keep it clean.
(1) What are the chances of success in
breeding and rearing ducks for market at
Toowoomba (Q.)? (2) Best breed? (3)Suit-
able feed? (4) At what age are ducks ready
for market? (5) What number of breeders
is required to earn the basic wage? —slB6.
(1) The district is suitable, but the local
market for table birds is limited. (2) Mus-
covy. (3) Bran, pollard, meat meals and a
plentiful supply of good succulent green feed.
Ground grains may also be extensively used
in compounding a mash if they can be
obtained cheaply. (4) About 14 weeks, but
it depends iipon the system of feeding. (5)
Can’t say. Study “Duck-raising for Profit,”
obtainable from “Poultry,” 13 Goulburn-
street, Sydney.
llow to get rid of cockchafer grubs? —
5316.
Digging, which will expose the grubs to
the attacks of birds, will prove beneficial,
and the digging into the ground of Clift’s
manurial insecticide would he helpful. These
methods, of course, can be applied only to a
small area of ground. Over large areas of
pastures, etc., control of cockchafers is
impracticable.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Floodmark”: Many drenched sheep and
lambs die through the liquid mixture being
delivered into the lungs instead of into the
stomach. To avoid this straddle the
animal, letting it stand upon its own
feet and not forcing the head too high;
place the doser or bottle-neck lightly upon
the back of tongue, which can then move
freely, so that the liquid will be swallowed.
Should the tongue be jambed tight, the liquid
will flow to the lungs, with disastrous resuits.
“Corio”: If footrot is troublesome in your
district this season, get the man who does
the counting out and branding to put the
sheep through the foot-bath before letting out
the shorn sheep. Divide your branding race
into three sections by means of hurdles or
temporary gates, the width of race. Put
loose straw in the first section for cleaning
the feet; place the footrot trough in the
second and fresh builders’ lime in the third.
Run one lot of ewes on the straw, brand and
let into second section. Fill up and brand
first section again, let second into third, and
on you go. Use either bluestone solution
or formalin in the bath; if the former, tack
a long wool skin in the bottom of trough to
prevent splashing and staining. Feet much
overgrown should be trimmed with paring-
knife or secateurs, and all hoof-trimmings
should be burnt. Isolate all bad cases in the
hospital paddock.
“Mullarula”: A bad crack in a cow’s hoof
is always likely to extend into the quick, but
there is a painless method of preventing this..
Place the animal in a crush, if it is not
quiet enough to be handled otherwise, and
burn the hoof fairly deeply with a hot iron
above the crack, in a line running at right
angles to the course of the latter. The crack
will not extend beyond the burn, and will
gradually be removed by the usual wearing
away of the hoof at the extremity. I have
used this method successfully even with
working bullocks.
“Porcko”: The proper method of milking
a cow, as taught in the dairy science schools
of England, is the crisscross; that is to say,
a hind teat and a fore teat at the one time.
These two are milked out to about half
their capacity; then the two other to half
their capacity; return to the first two, and
finish. The idea is to regulate the secretion
of milk and keep the udder even and of
good shape.
“Mander”: The best practice is to keep
the boar in a yard by himself and take the
sows to him as they come in season. Do
not keep him penned up, or he will get fat
and lazy. He should not be under 12 months,
and generally should not be used beyond his
fifth year. An old boar can easily be cas-
trated and fattened up.
“Hortus”: The quickest healer for leg
wounds in horses is one we used years ago
and still use. Wash well with phenyl, and
cover thickly with black grease. No ban-
dages required.
“Wandi”: Goanna oil is good for
machinery, gun locks, and so forth, but don’t
use it on the harness. For keeping leather
soft, try kangaroo fat. This is specially used
on some stations for reins and leather girths.
“U. Murray”: Everyone interested in
pasture-improvement should remember that
it is in seasons of luxuriant growth that
the more valuable grasses are destroyed.
Land suitable for English and other intro-
duced grasses of high class is always ready
to throw up an overwhelming mass of annual
grasses and still coarser herbage; this stuff,
destructive to all choicer growths while alive,
dies off into a thick layer of rotting straw.
Every effort should now be made to have it
eaten off. In any region of decent rainfall the
most valuable English grasses may be induced
to take possession by recourse to this eating-
out process, but the rank annual herbage of
the spring must be attacked season after
season.
“Jack Point”: If bothered with aphis in
the vegetable garden, plant some kohlrabi
in between the other vegetables. The aphis
will attack them in preference, and if you
regularly spray the infested plants with a
good mixture you will have little or no
trouble with this pest on the other plants.
“J. Point” : Birds which lay youngest are
the best layers, so aim at reducing to the
minimum the time between the hatching of
the chick and the laying of its first egg. Buy
only the best of feeds, and supplement it
with plenty of green stuff, preferably
lucerne; lettuce and silver-beet are also easy
to grow at this time of year. Good housing
is essential; give as much range as you can,
arranging the yards in such a way that those
of approximately similar ages are kept to-
gether; and don’t try to raise a batch of
chicks where a previous lot has run without
thoroughly cleansing ground and houses.
“Dimon” : Where water is not laid on, a
good shower can be made with a kerosene-
tin. Perforate the bottom, and put in a false
bottom of wood a couple of inches above it,
and out of the centre of which an opening
3in. x 2in. has been cut. Over this fit
a piece of thick leather, screwed on at one
end, and topped with an iron plate, riveted
on. To this attach one end of a cord, and
pass the other end through a ring or pulley
overhead. The tin may be hauled up and
down on another pulley.
» “Bad Australian”: “Benbow’s” “better
method of tree-felling” (B. 12/8/’3l) is
chiefly a recapitulation of the essential
points of my article (B. 22/7/’3l). Where
he goes further he knocks good counsel end-
ways by asserting that the front scarf must
not be started until the back cut is well into
the tree. The front scarf should always be
put in before the back cut is started, and its
depth depends on the angle at which the tree
stands. When the tree has a very pronounced
lean it is sometimes necessary to carry this
scarf half-way through the trunk before the
back is touched. If the front scarf is absent
or not sufficiently deep, a leaning tree is
liable to “tear up” before the saw-cut is half-
way through, and the backward kick of the
log will almost certainly lay the ill-advised
feller out.
Sam Copley, who made his pile in West-
ralia as cattleman, land speculator and
founder of an insurance co., and who entered
the ranks of British millionaires during the
post-war cotton boom, is interesting himself
in Red Poll cattle. At the English Royal
Show, held at Warwick, he won a champion-
ship with a two-year-old heifer. According
to Perth “Sunday Times,” he intends to
ship the first male offspring of the champion
to his Westralian stud at Woodsome.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Wanted for tobacco-growing, n.-e. Vic., working
partner with not less than £l5O.: —5271.
Woolclasser, available for about one month, would
relieve other classer. Refs. —5283.
Young man (28), office and travelling exp., wants
position Sydney.—s2B6.
Woolclasser, N.S.W., 20 years’ exp., requires run
of sheds anywhere from middle of November. Refs.
—5245.
Young qualified accountant and secretary wants
post in Q’land or the Islands. Refs. —5254.
Man (N.S.AV.) wants position on station (sheep
preferred), 8 years’ exp. general station-hand, 21
years motor-lorry driver. Can do repairs. Refs. —
5264.
Business man going to California and adjoining
States will undertake commissions for firms or
individuals. Refs. —5285.
Typewriting at home by expert. Shorthand;
dictation. S. .J. .Pease, P.O. Warriewood, via Manly
(N.S.W.).
Young man, Q’land, willing invest £250, wishes
to correspond with one or two others with similar
amount, view to purchase auxiliary motor-boat in
which to travel round w0r1d.—5369.
Man, 55, lately in vaudeville, certified elec, lift-
driver, cleaner, night watchman, wants employment.
Refs. —5287.
Returned soldier, 12 years’ Eastern exp., offers
services to manufacturers or exporters. —5301.
To buy books or papers dealing with British North
Borneo. —5319.
To buy Baker’s “Surveying and Levelling.”—s3s7.
To buy book on card tricks. —5379.
To buy “Practical Dairy Bacteriology,” by Conn;
or “Microbiology,” by Marshall. —5365.
To buy “An Anzac Muster,” “XXI Poems,”
“Station Ballads,” “Old Convict Days” and early
Australian novels and verse.—s 364.
Words of “The Soldier Settler’s Diary.”—s3s2.
Words and music of “Barney O’Hea,” “Thady
O’Flynn” and “I’m Getting Too Old for It Now.”
—5373.
Copy of The Bulletin containing parody on Mark
Antony’s oration, illustrated by “H0p.”—5238.
To correspond' with Bulletin readers residing in
British North Borneo or with any person who has
lived there.—s3l3.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the urban proportion of the
population in (a) Australia,, (b) England,
(c) America, (d) Denmark, (e) Germany,
(f) Belgium? (2) Is Australia more imbal-
anced in that respect than other countries? —
5126.
(1) (o) 62.1 p.c. (b) 79.3, (c) 56.2, (d)
52.6, (e) and (?) not available. (2) Just
on one-lialf of the population of Australia
is massed in six cities which are the s„ats of
government; Sydney and Melbourne between
them hold about a third of the population
of the continent.
Name of a book dealing with the birth of
the kangaroo and other marsupials!?— 4926.
The subject is dealt with in articles entitled
“The Mystery of Marsupial Birth and
Transference to the Pouch,” by E. L.
Trough ton, iii the “Australian Museum
Magazine,” Vol. 11., No. 11, 1926; and
“Further Notes Upon Marsupial Birth” in
Vol. 111., No. 2, 1927. Copies may he
obtained from the Museum, College-street,
Sydney. “Wild Animals of Australasia,” by
Le Souef and Burrell, also deals with the
subject.
How are the names of the following elec-
trical units derived: (1) Farad, (2)
Ampere, (3) Henry, (4) Volt, (5) Watt,
(6) Ohm, (7) How did the word ‘’magnet-
ism” originate? —sll2.
(1) After Prof. Michael Faraday. (2)
After Andre M. Ampere. (3) After Joseph
Henry. (4) After Alessandra Volta. (5)
After James Watt. (6) After Dr. George
S. Ohm. (7) The “natural magnet” was
originally found in Magnesia, Asia Minor.
The Bulletin speaks of the' demand for
Indian remount horses, which it calls
“ Walers .” Exactly - what is a Waler and
how would one set about breeding this class
of horse? —5217.
The first horses imported from Australia
by India in the long ago came from N.S.W,
and were called “Walers”; the name has
stuck ever since. The term is applied to a
first-class saddle-horse of high thoroughbred
type and quality such as were to be found in
Australian cattle country in abundance
before the South African War. The type is
bred in the same way as any other; by the
selection of sires and mares likely to fulfil
requirements and careful attention to main-
taining quality and bone, plus staying
capacity.
What missions operate in Papua, and to
what regions are they confined? —5166.
The London Missionary Society’s district
includes the whole southern littoral except
Yule Island and the Mekeo districts; the
Roman Catholic Mission works on Yule
Island and Mekeo; the Methodist Mission-
ary Society occupies the large islands of
the south-east mainland ; the Anglican Mis-
sion stations extend from Chads Bay' to the
border of the Mandated Territory, and the
Seventh Day Adventists operate in the
mountainous district behind Port Moresby.
(1) On what date in 1918 were the Ger-
mans finally stopped east of Amiens? (2)
On what date was Villers-Bretonneux retaken
by the Australians and what troops took
part? (3) How many volumes of the France
section of Bean’s “Official War History”
have been published? —sBo7.
(1) The Germans consider their attack
on April 4, 1918. at Villers-Bretonneux as
being the end of their thrust at Amiens.
They were stopped on that date mainly by
the 9tli Australian Infantry Brigade and Ist
British Cavalry Division. (2) The night of
April 24-25, 1918. The 13th and 15tli Aus-
tralian Infantry Brigades and some British
troops took part in the recapture. (3) Only
one volume lias yet been published; it covers
1916. The 1917 volume is nearing completion.
(1) Is there any preventive for scarlet
fever? (2) Same in regard to whooping
cough? —-4705. .
(1) A method of prevention is used (prin-
cipally in the U.S.A.) and it is claimed that
the treatment is successful. (2) At Children s
Hospital in Sydney a system is in use, and
excellent results are claimed.
(.1) What relief has the Commonwealth
Government given this year to owners of
expropriated properties in New Guinea who
have been badly hit by the low price of
copra? (2) Do many Australians own
such plantations?, (3) Under what condi-
tions are Germans now admitted to New
Guinea? —5197.
(1) Early in the year the Commonwealth
Government granted a s suspension of pay-
ments until June 30, 1932, of principal anil
interest due by purchasers of expropriated
properties in New Guinea. (2) Nearly all
were purchased by former members of the
A.I.F. (3) On the same footing as other
persons wishing to enter the territory. They
are now required only to fulfil the usual
immigration requirements.
Is the Iceland poppy a native of Iceland?
Who named it? —476l.
It is a native of northern regions gener-
ally, and has been in cultivation under this
common name for so long that the origin is
forgotten.
Is it practicable to melt heavy copper-wire
in a cast-iron container for the purpose of
casting in sand moulds? —5179.
A cast-iron container would not be suit-
able. Crucibles for this purpose are com-
posed of refractory materials, such as
graphite, with a sufficient amount of clay or
other binder.
(1) Number of returned soldiers and their
dependants who received war pensions, dur-
ing the last financial year, and amount paid?
(2) Number of old-age and invalid pensions
same period and amount paid? (3) Number
who received maternity bonus same period
and amount paid? (4) Number of claims
granted under N.S.W. Family Endowment
Act, amount paid, and amount received from
employers under Act? —4986.
(1) Ex-soldiers, 75,316; dependants,
208,006; total, 283,322; £7,996,180. (2)
Old age, 172,177; invalid, 68.343; total,
240,520 ; £11,710,953. (3) 126,149 ; £630,652
—after deducting £93 refunds. (4) Claims
granted (1929-30). 40,324. Endowment paid,
£1,261.202. Proceeds of family endowment
tax (1929-30), £1.886,715.
(1) What is the composition of the paste
used in connection with the manufacture of
lead accumulator plates? (2) Is it possible
to refill old plates? ■ (3) Any book on this
subject, and where procurable.? —s236.
(1) The positive plates are filled with a
plastic mixture such as red-lead mixed with
sulphuric acid to the consistency of putty,
the whole being dried and treated with sul-
phuric acid. The negative plates are pre-
pared on the same lines, but with a paste
composed of litharge mixed with sulphuric
acid. (2) Plates which have broken up and
disintegrated are beyond repair. If in good
condition it is possible to refill them, but
a satisfactory job cannot be guaranteed. (3)
“Accumulator-charging, Maintenance and
Repairs,” by W. S. Ibbetson, 65., Angus and
Robertson, Sydney.
(1) Could I obtain a small monkey from
Taronga Zoo, Sydney? (2) If not, from
where? (3) Are they good pets? —s232.
(1) No. (2) Try A. L. Turner, 476 Pitt-
street, Sydney, (3) No. They are uncer-
tain in temper and can never be trusted.
/ live in Papua and have discovered a
preventive of and cure for insect bites. (1)
Must I register it under the N.S.W. Pure
Foods Act? (2) If so, must I disclose the
formula? —5153.
(1) There is no such thing as registration
under that Act; a guarantee may be given
under the Act on application to the Receiver,
the Treasury, Sydney, but the guarantor
must be resident in N.S.W., or have a duly-
accredited agent so resident. (2) It is not
necessary to disclose formula, but the law
requires a declaration on the label of cer-
tain drugs named in regulations made under
the Act.
(1) What are the qualifications for the
job of meat inspector in the State of N.S.W.?
(2) Where are these obtained? (3) Must
a man have practical experience for the job,
or are positions filled by theorists? (4) Is
there any chance of diseased or defective
meat getting out of the abattoirs? (5)
What means arg taken to ascertain whether
meat is diseased, and how is it definitely
established that a beast is unfit for human
consumption? (6) What becomes of con-
demned carcgses? (7) Is there a proved
percentage of error on the part of inspec-
tors? —5012.
(1) (2) and (3) Before a meat inspector is
employed he is required to have attended
the course and passed the examination held
by the Sydney Technical College, which
embraces practical as well as theoretical
aspects of the subject. (4) The chances
are negligible. (5) By the exercise of
knowledge and experience. (6) They are
made into fertiliser. (7) No.
(1) Suitable locality near Sydney, time
and season, for catching whiting from the
beach? (2) Gear and bait? (3) Size of
hook? (4) What, other beach fishing is
available near Sydney? —sl3B.
(1) Whiting are usually to be had in large
numbers on the ocean beach at Cronulla, north
of the hotel, from now till December This
is one of the best grounds adjacent to Syd-
liey. They are biting well at the present
time behind the picture theatre at Col-
laroy. Dusk is the best time to fish, and
the deeper channels in the beach should be
sought for. (2) and (3) A No. 6 gut line;
No. 1, long-shank hook; sinker below hook,
about 2oz. weight. (4) At times, which
are very irregular, bream, jewfish, tailer and
flathead are captured on Sydney ocean
beaches.
(1) In what way arc the monthly phases
of the moon brought about? (2) If the
moon is visible to us as a result of the reflec-
tion. by the disc of the sun’s light, why is
it possible for us to see moon and sun at
the same time and both nearly at the
zenith, the moon being an inverted semi-disc
high up in the sky? (3) Books on the_ sub-
ject ? (4) What are the four dimensions?
—5117.
(1) The phases of the moon are caused
by the difference in the respective longitudes
of the two bodies. When the difference in
longitude is zero we have new moon ; differ-
ence 90deg., first quarter ; ISOdeg., full moon ;
270 deg., third quarter, and then back to zero,
new moon, and so on. (2) As the extent of
our horizon e.-w. or n.-s. is ISOdeg., the
moo.n and sun are always visible in the sky
up to the full-moon phase or thereabouts.
But it is not possible to have the sun and
semi-moon near the zenith. The semi-disc,
being one of the quarters, must be either
OOdeg. or 270 deg. east of the sun. (3) Prac-
tically any work on descriptive asti’onomy
will explain the moon’s phases. (4) Length,
breadth, thickness and time.
(1) What is the maximum boiling-point
of benzine and kerosene? (2) How many
cubic feet of steam icill one gallon of water
produce when boiled under no pressure? —
5051.
(1) The boiling-point of benzine is SOdeg.
C. That of commercial kerosene cannot be
definitely stated, as it is a mixture of many
materials, with boiling-points between
150 deg. C- and 300 deg. C. (2) The volume
would be infinite if pressure were zero.
(1) Have used Australian stamps any
commercial value? (2) Where could I dis-
pose of them in Melbourne? (3) Should any
special care be exercised? (4) Are low-
value stamps such as the penny and two-
penny worth collecting? —s2oB.
J_ 1) Not values below Is. (2) W. H.
Pethard, 109 Victoria-road, Noi'thcote South,
purchases Commonwealth stamps of the
higher values in quantities. (3) Discard
heavily cancelled and torn stamps. Remove
stamp from the envelope by soaking face up
in water and then drying. (4) No; with
the possible exception of commemorative
issues.
(1) Differences, if any, in chemical pro-
perties of sea salt and lake salt? (2) Pro-
cess of refining lake salt? (3) Conditions
of Australian Pure Food Acts in relation to
salt?— 42B7.
(1) While the saline composition of ocean
water from any part of the world is practi-
cally the same, each inland lake exhibits
peculiarities according to the class of coun-
try through which the waters flow. Although
there is no uniformity with regard to com-
position of lake salts, there is an approxi-
mation in chemical character to that of the
open seas. An analysis is necessary to exactly
determine composition. (2) Lake salt when
it compares with sea salt in composition does
not require any refining. The problem is
not one of refining so much as one of
recovery of the salt from the lake water.
This is accomplished by evaporation. In
places provided with an abundant supply of
sunshine, much salt is obtained by this means
—solar evaporation, leaving a bed or crust
of salt which is scraped into heaps and
bagged. A second method of evaporation is
by heating the brine in pans by means of
fuel. The latest method for the recovery
of salt from brine is the multiple vacuum
evaporator system. This process has the
advantages that it is much quicker, the salt
is finer in grain and very pure. The main
disadvantages are initial cost and the forma-
tion of scale on the tubes. (3) Speaking
generally, it is required in such enactments
that the salt shall be clean and shall contain
less than one-tenth of one per cent, of matter,
insoluble in hot dilute decinormal ’ hydro-
chloric acid. Metals such as antimony,
arsenic, lead and tin, or any compounds of
those meals, are regarded as poisonous. The
British Pharmacopoeia gives the limits for
poisonous metals in salt as, lead. 10 parts per
million ; arsenic, 2 parts per million.
(1) To what extent did the value of cur-
rency depreciate in ratio to gold as a result
of the Great War? (2) Was there any
marked change in the distribution of the
world’s gold during the war period? —437o.
(1) In the words of the report of the
Cunliffe Committee (August, 1918), “It is
not possible to judge to what extent legal
tender currency may in fact be depreciated in
terms of bullion.” Some sort of a gauge
may be applied, however, by reference to the
exchange rates in the early post-war period.*
For instance, in February. 1920. gold sold
in London to the U.S.A., and paid for at the
U.S.A. Mint normal price of 20 dollars 06
cents per fine ounce, gave a return to the sellers
of £6 7s. 4d. per ounce in English currency—
-50 per cent, above the normal Bank of Eng-
land price of £4 4s. lOd. pdr ounce. That was
a measure of the disparity between English
and American currency values. But the
whole range of commodity prices in the
U.S.A., as in other countries, at that time
was considerably above the 1913 level—as
much as 80 per cent, on an average—indicat-
ing that the purchasing power of even
U.S.A. currency had to that extent depreci-
ated as compared with pre-war times. A
recent statement by Ramsay MacDonald re-
garding armament expenditure indicates that
in the view of the British Treasury currency
of to-day has depreciated by one-third com-
pared with 1913. (2) In December, 1913,
the world’s stock of gold .money (excluding
the East) was £1,587.000.000, of which
£226 000,000 was h«ld by the U.S.A.
Treasury and £749,000,000 by the State
banks and treasuries of the rest of the world.
The remainder, £572.000 000, was in circula-
tion, held by private banks, or hoarded. In
June, 1920. the stock had increased to
£1,940.000.000, of which the U.S.A. Treasury
held £445.000 000. an increase of 67 per cent.:
the other State banks and treasuries held
£1075.000 000, an increase of 40 per cent.,
and the amount in circulation, held by private
banks and hoarded hfid dropped to
£420.000,000, a decrease of 26 per cent.
Brief Answers.
J.O'D.: Useful information will be found
in the “Aboriginalities” pages for the last six months.
“A Guide for the Use of Prospectors in N.S.W.,
issued by the Department of Mines, price 25.,
includes a map of the gold-bearing districts. “Pros-
pecting for Gold,” by I. L. Idriess, 55., Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, is a reliable book. There is no
subsidy K.L.F.: The total known coal production
of the world in 1928 amounted to about 1,430,000,000
tons, towards which Australia contributed about
13J million tons, or 0.9 per cent F.W.: (1)
Approximately £l. (2) You might submit it to
Thorpe and Co., 241 Adelaide-street, Brisbane, for
auction... .F.J.D.: No member of the House of
Commons can resign; he must apply for some office
of profit under the Crown. The usual practice is
to apply for the stewardship of the Chiltern
Hundreds W.R.: Blank verse is, strictly, any un-
l-hymed verse; but the expression is commonly
applied to the five-foot iambic unrhymed verse in
which “Paradise Lost” and Shakspeare’s tragedies
are written E.D.: The decimal system of classi-
fication for library cataloguing, known as the “Dewey
System,” was invented by Melvil Dewey, an Ameri-
can librarian, in 1876... . A.E.H.: A George 111.
copper coin with the date worn oft has no value.
T.B.: (1) A person to be eligible to receive an
invalid pension must apparently be totally and
permanently incapacitated for all work. (2) At
65 and after 20 years’ continuous residence in Aus-
tralia his pension automatically becomes an old-
age pension, and he is then allowed to earn up to
12s. 6d. per week without affecting the pension.
L.P.: Write Agriculture Department, Melbourne,
for leaflet “Avian Diphtheria and Chicken-pox.”
. ...A.0.: Send more information.... W.K.: Write
to C. W. Donne, 351 Post Office Place, Mel-
bourne C.G.H.: Write N.S.W. Agriculture Depart-
ment for pamphlet “The Apple-root Weevil as a
Pest of Citrus” R.J.: Particulars can be got from
the inventor of the game, Frank Donnellan, ,42
Station-street, Harris Park, Sydney... .A.G.D.: The
items should be claimed as deductions in your 1930-
31 return G.P.S.: Write the Commissioner, Royal
Canadian Mounted Police, Ottawa, Canada ... .RAY.:
Not very well. Consult the doctor in charge of the
Psychiatric Clinic, Leichhardt, Sydney... .M.C.:
Write to the Assistant Paymaster-General, Supreme
Court Pay Office, London H.W.: Write Under-
secretary, Home Affairs Department, Canberra....
H.R.8.: (1) One hundredweight of flour equals 1001 b.,
one ton of flour 20001 b. (2) The U.S.A. gallon is five-
sixths of the British gallon... .C.H.: There
is some reason to believe that at a higher altitude,
free of city smoke, you would suffer less from catarrh.
E.P.M.: (1) Ask the skin specialist whether
anything further can be done for you. (2) Seborrheic
dermatitis is difficult to cure, but it can generally
be kept down by persistent treatment... .F.M.A.:
(1) Can’t trace the firm. (2) No books on the
subject; let us have more information... .HiW.Y.:
Interest credited by the N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank on amounts at deposit during the
year ended 30th June, 1931, should be shown in
the return as income... .J.L.R.: The French liner
La Bourgoyne, bound from New York to Havre,
sank in collision with the Cromartyshire, British
barque, off Nova Scotia, on July 4, 1898. The
captain of the La Bourgoyne and 545 of the pas-
sengers and crew were drowned; 165 were saved. .. .
J.E.: If you refer to crematorium, get in touch
with N.S.W. Cremation Co., 19 Bligh-street, Sydney.
.. ..S.A.W.: McDonald, Henry and Meek’s “Aus
tralian Bankruptcy Law and Practice’’ (£4 45.).
Lewis’s “Australian Bankruptcy Law” (155.), and
Eagleson’s “Bills of Sales” (255.). A new work
on bills of sale is in preparation; Law Booh
Co., 140 Phillip-street, Sydney 8.F.5.: Paling
and Co., 338 George-street; Albert and Son,
137 King-street; Chappell and Co., 250 Pitt-street —-
all Sydney... .J.F.: No demand was made by the
French Government for rent of land occupied in
France by Australian soldiers... .A.S.: (1) At least
£250. (2) Contract through sawmillers between
January and March. (3) From Factories Dept.,
Melbourne W.J.T.: (1) Yes, the same option
exists and there is no compulsion. (2) N 0.,..
T.C.G.: (1) If the generator is charging properly
the electrolyte is probably the trouble. (2). The
powder is obtainable from G. A. Sloan and Co.,
East-street, Rockhampton. A If-can costs 75., plus
sales tax and freight; distilled water will also be
required... .R.V.G.: The mortgage does not in any-
way affect your personal belongings. It covers only
the security upon which the advance has been made.
A.M.S.: You have no option; if you fail to pay
they may sue and seize sufficient of your good-
to discharge the tax and costs... .J.H.M.: If either
neighbor, by erecting a bank or by a system of pipes,
diverted the natural flow of surface water from his
allotment in such a way as to flood the other’s
allotment, the sufferer would have a right of action.
... .Tired: See Bulletin leader, 26/8/’31....W1M. :
A mare named Graftloch is mentioned in Volume IX
of “The Australian Stud Book.” She was foaled in
1903, and was by Grafton from Bourban, by Lochiei
from The Rose, by Splendor from Rose of Cobham,
by Maribyrnong from Belle of Cobham (imp.), by
Restitution. There are several mares named Lady
Betty; one, bred in 1895, was by Swiveller from
Betsy, by Rapidity W.T.: There are several
hundred species of poplars, njany of which have
pyramidal forms, among them the white poplar
and one of the large-leaved poplars, Populus balsam,-
ifera. The Lombardy is a variety of the black
poplar G.R.: (1) Plenty of wool-hauling
work is likely to be available in W. Q land. Success
of a truck-owner would depend on the individual’s
business ability. (2) and (3) Nearest Mercedes-
Benz agents are Herbert Jones and Sons, Adelaide-
street, Brisbane. Price in any port in Australia
ready for the road is £1675 to £2700, according
to type. There are no agents in Brisbane, for the
other trucks mentioned... .E.R.H.: We cannot trace
any literature on the subject... .D.L.: It is a postal
district number and indicates the office of delivery.
Thus, N 1 indicates the area served from the North
Melbourne post office; S 2 the area served from St.
Kilda... .G.W.C.: K. Phibil, Box 368655, G.P.0.,
Sydney K.F.: From H. E. C. Robinson, 221
George-street, Sydney, paper 2s, cloth 4s M.H.:
Members of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly were
first paid in 1889. They were allowed £3OO p.a.
. ...D.M.: (1) By a reduction of interest rate's.
The rates suggested are 5 per cent, on first and
a higher rate on second mortgages. (2) Probably by
uniform legislation in the States. (3) 75.....
G.S.M.: A cannot collect from C. An lOU has no
legal standing T.J.S.: Clive Brook, the cinema
actor, was born in London, and is 40....N.H.:
International Accountants’ Corporation and Book-
keepers’ Institute, Capitol House, Swanston-street,
Melbourne, Cl S.T.: Write to the Superintending
Clerk. Old Age Pensions Branch, Ministry of Health,
Whitehall, London, 5.W.1... .W.W.8.: “Kismet,” by
Edward Knoblauch, was first produced at the Garrick
Theatre, London, on April 19, 1911. Asehe was
Haaj; Otis Skinner did not take that part till the
play was staged at the Knickerbocker Theatre, New
York. December 25, 1911... .F.M.D.: There is very
little opening in Australia, as most designs come from
overseas, or are derived by local cutters from im-
ported magazines. Finney, Isles and Co., Brisbane,
or David Jones, Sydney, might be interested....
(Many others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £lOO IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J. HARDIE
Synopsis : Visiting Corella station in
North Queensland at the invitation of
'Torn Donaldson, father of her school
friend Peggy, Margaret Kennedy falls
under the spell of Ken Craig’s roman-
tic personality. She nurses him when
he is badly injured, and rejects a
somewhat offhand proposal. Station
life _ is suddenly mterrupted by the
arrival of Mr. Borthwicu, sent up by
the city managers on a visit of inspec-
tion. Borthwick, who has a. sinister
understanding with the station book-
keeper, Heath, offers Ken a big sum
for his black horse Eaglehawk, which
had been given to him by a mysteri-
ous bush character, Larry Nolan. Ken
refuses to part with the horse, and
shortly after is doped in a hotel, and
is scorned as a drunk by Margaret.
The horses are stolen, but Larry
tracks and recovers them. Ken re-
ceives a letter of apology from Mar-
garet, the illness of whose father has
caused her to leave the station. Borth-
wick sacks Donaldson, and puts Heath
in charge, changes which soon lead to
Ken and others leaving. Ken returna
Eaglehawk to Larry’s care, and after
some droving goes to Sydney, to learn
that a war has been raging in Europe
for a month. He also meets Margaret
again, and learns that she had made
an unfortunate marriage. He goes
then to England and enlists in the
King's Colonials, a cavalry regiment
which is soon after sent to France as
infantry. Wounded, Ken is in Scot-
land on leave, when he decides to visit
the people of an old station friend, and
becomes attracted by Ailsa Cameron.
CHAPTER XXI ( Continued ).
IT was the last night of Ken’s leave. He
was returning by an early train to report
to the Reserve Squadron, then to the
Medical Board.
The house was in darkness as the two
figures let themselves quietly in. The night
was cold and cheerless, but they had decided
to go for a walk rather than sit indoors.
Even outside, Ailsa’s ready flow of talk
seemed to have deserted her. She envied
the man his pipe—a.nd thanked the Powers
for the war-darkened streets.
Mr. and Mrs. Cameron had retired, but
a cheery fire was blazing in the comfort-
able sitting-room. The girl slipped out of
her coat, and, dropping into a big easy
chair, stared fixedly into the glowing coals.
Ken, following slowly, bent to knock his
pipe out on a lump of coal.
“Tired, Ailsa?”
The girl looked up, and shook her head
with a forced smile.
“No, not a bit! I could sit up all night!
Shall we?”
The man stood with feet apart, smiling
down at her.
“Think of the scandal!”
“Hang the scandal! I wouldn’t care!”
“But I would!”
“All right, Sir Galahad!” She smiled
bravely at him, knowing well that it was
not for his own reputation he cared.
He slid the pipe into a capacious pocket,
and seated himself on the arm of her chair.
The girl leaned back in the opposite
corner so that she could keep her eyes on
his face.
“Do you think the Board will send you
back to France?”
“I hope so,” he replied in a steady voice,
his eyes searching the flames. “I left the
mob in a quiet part of the line and they
may still be these. I’m not looking forward
to a winter in the mud, but I can’t stand
the eternal spit and polish of the army on
this side of the Channel.”
“How about the big tour of Scotland
you were going to make?” she challenged
mockingly. “Aren’t you sorry you didn’t
go?”
The man grinned down at her. “Don’t
try tp pull my leg, Copper-top.”
The sound of his pet name for her
brought the flush of happiness to her cheeks,
and she rubbed her head softly on his arm.
“Ken, I was awfully scared you would go
on,” she murmured. “lan’s letters gave us
the impression that you were a sort of
superman, and generally when you meet
these boomed-up people you feel horribly
disappointed. But it wasn’t like that with
you!”
“Now, then,” he warned her, “I’m going
to sit over here, if you’re going to talk
like that!” ‘ And despite her protestations
he crossed to the chair on the opposite side
of the fire, where he sprawled out lazily
and smiled across through half-closed eyes.
“Good job I can still remember Larry
Nolan’s advice!”
“What’s that?”
“He used to say, ‘They’re all the same,
them wimmen! They kid you up a tree
and then chop it down on you!”’
“The brute! Isn’t he the old chap?—
Oh, wait a minute!”
She rose and he heard her run hastily
upstairs.
His eyes lazily lost themselves in the
glowing tunnels in the fire.
Good job he was going back, he mused.
Much longer in the company of that bonzer
kid, and—who knows what might happen?
It was hard enough now.
He looked up quickly as Ailsa slipped
into the room.
She thrust something into his hand, then
flopped back into her chair, watching the
man with eyes that mingled curiosity with
a touch of fear.
“I found that among some old letters
to-day. Recognise it?”
Ken took the snapshot and turned it
till the fitelight fell full on it. The girl
saw his eyes open wide in amazement and
caught the intense feeling of the slowly
whispered words—
“Eaglehawk! You—old”
The devouring eyes lifted from the snap-
shot a moment.
“Ailsa, where did you get this?”
She laughed quietly, touched by the in-
fection of his unusual excitement.
“lan took it just before you left Corella.
What a beautiful horse!”
“Beautiful! He’s the greatest horse in
the world!” His rapt eyes glued themselves
to the photograph again. “There’s old
Tommy’s fowl-house in the background!
God, but these old coolabahs look great!”
He drew a long, deep breath as if to draw
to his nostrils their pungent eucalyptus
scent over the intervening half of the globe.
Almost fearfully Ailsa watched the un-
seeing. eyes roaming eagerly through a past
in which she held no place. The man, en-
grossed in his thoughts, seemed to lose
consciousness of time, and of the girl
opposite.
When he looked up with a start, she was
lying back in the big chair. She had
loosened her hair, and the rich, auburn
tresses fell luxuriantly on her shoulders. Her
face rested on one outflung arm, the fea-
tures indistinct in the firelight.
“Sorry, Ailsa!” he murmured contritely.
“The sight of that old horse gave me a bit
of a jolt.”
The girl made no sign.
Quietly he rose and bent over her. Her
eyes were closed. The flickering firelight
threw its warm glow on the lovely features,
the perfect skin. From the concealing folds
of her fiair peeped the clear-cut lines of
chin and delicate throat.
Was she asleep?
Cautiously he bent lower to scan the
partly-hidden face. A faint perfume, intoxi-
cating in its nearness, quickened the beat-
ing of his pulse. He bent • lower, nearer
the closed eyes, the straight fine lines of
the nostrils, the parted lips.
“Ailsa!” His voice was a mere hoarse
whisper.
Her head turned ever so slightly, the
eyes opened slowly, her quivering lips were
close—so close!
Their lips met in a long fierce kiss. A
pair of arms twined round him, pressing
the soft, warm body against him with amaz-
ing strength. The wealth of her hair
covered his face, blinding him, intoxicating
him. He slipped to his knees, strong arms
hungrily wrapping themselves round the
yielding form, his face buried in the soft,
palpitating throat, his whole body on fire.
CHAPTER XXII.
The R.T.O. looked up wearily from the
litter of papers on his desk.
“King’s Colonials? What division? Oh,
Canadian! Report at Steenwerck!”
A cold, jolting journey across bleak
northern France and Belgium, in bare cattle-
trucks designed by the French officials to
hold “8 chevaux—4o hommes.” The elas-
ticity of their capacity was sorely tested at
times. Rumor has said that if the 8
chevaux and 40 hommes had been crowded
in together, the result would have been
travelling de luxe compared with some of
the trips on record.
Ken piloted the small draft over the roads
he knew of old. Changes were everywhere.
Gone were the warm, sunny days when the
wasps took possession of your jam. Instead
of the smiling fields gay with red poppies
and farm-houses shaded by luxuriant trees,
the bare, shell-torn earth stretched raw
under dull, leafless trees. Mud underfoot—
mud everywhere! Thick, clinging mud off
the road; deep, soupy mud all over the
road, hiding treacherous holes under its
yellow, oleaginous mantle.
Neuve Eglise was almost unrecognisable.
The church was a scattered ruin of masonry.
Few houses remained intact. Some faced
the debris-littered street with the front wall
completely torn off, the upper and lower
rooms gaping to passers-by like a cinema-
set.
In the growing dusk the little party
pushed on to Headquarters Farm—that
dark, dismal building under tall trees, with
the little graveyards round it; the British,
where many of the K.C’s, slept their last;
the forlorn little French wooden crosses on
top of which once hung the weatherbeaten
kepi of each fallen poihi: the few German
graves, reminiscent of the early days of
’fourteen.
Ken walked cautiously towards the place
—Fritz used to have a machine-gun trained
on the road. The building was in ruins.
Gone was the big, white-walled kitchen
where Bruce Bairnsfather’s mural decora-
tions in charcoal and crayon had gained him
fame before the public heard of the creator
of Old Bill.
A sentry challenged in a strong Canadian
accent, then shouted to someone unseen:
“Hey, fellas, where’s the K.C.’s?”
“Try the Red Lodge—Hill 63!” came the
muffled reply.
It was quite dark and the rain was falling
dismally when the tired, footsore draft
plodded muddily past the barking muzzles
of a battery of eighteen-pounders, and came
upon a dim body of men leaning quietly
on picks and shovels—a working party
going up the line.
“Who are you?” Ken queried of a
muffled figure.
“K.C.’s.”
“Thank God for that!”
With new life in their dragging feet they
reported to Orderly Room, and Ken turned
off in search of the bombers. From some-
where above in the dim drizzle came the
twang of a banjo, and the sound of a voice
lilting:
“Oh, I’ve been down in an old Kaffir kraal,
And I’m not lousy — no! Not at all!
Come-a-ky e-ay e-aye- ay e-aye!
Come-a-kye, my rookie! Come-a-kye!”
An unmistakable figure like a squat crab
loomed out of the dark.
“Hullo, Alvarez!”
The figure wheeled swiftly at the drawling
voice; two huge hands grasped Ken’s arms
and their owner peered into the tired face
with welcome shining in his eyes.
“Craig, Amigo! Como lava! Carrajo!”
The husky voice broke into rapid, excited
Spanish. Ken was hauled to the shelter of
a leaky hut, where he thankfully slipped his
sodden equipment on a hastily-cleared
space on the floor beside Alvarez’s blankets.
Most of the old crowd were there, and a
few new faces. All made him welcome after
their own fashion, and he peeled off his
slimy puttees in front of the brazier, feel-
ing strangely happy. It was good to be
back with the boys again!
Winter dragged its weary length in a
succession of working parties and flounder-
ing in trenches that all the revetting in the
world would not stop from caving in and
becoming a wide, muddy canal. When you
stepped on the end of a duckboard you
never knew whether the other end would
rise and smite you on the nose, or whether
it was merely floating over three feet of
soupy mud.
Neither side did much shelling beyond
occasionally registering on distant land-
marks. The men in the front line re-
lieved and were relieved, often without
firing a shot. Mud was everywhere. They
lived in it, ate of it, slept in it, rifles were
plastered with it. Life was one large, dismal
discomfort, the only alleviation an occa-
sional tramp to Bailleul for a bath, a
decent meal and a booze-up.
The advent of the Mills bomb had
changed the aspect of bombing. In the old
days the arrival of the men festooned
with the miscellaneous array of stick-bombs,
T.N.T.’s, incendiaries and home-made jam-
tin bombs was the signal for all hands
to discover a pressing appointment in an-
other bay.
Trench-feet, the result of standing in
freezing mud day after day, created more
casualties than bu’lets. Among them was
Mvarez, who refused to go to hospital,
and compromised by joining the regimental
transport and undergoing local treatment.
On their next relief from the trenches
Ken made for the transport lines. Failing
to find Alvarez, he cornered the transport
sergeant.
“Alvarez? Poor devil! One of our mules
kicked him fair in the forehead yesterday.
They took him to the C.C.S.. but”
The sergeant’s doubtful headshake com-
pleted the sentence.
Ken made for the Casualty Clearing
Station. A weary-eyed R.A.M.C. corporal
remembered the case. The man was still
alive when evacuated to hospital, but
Again that “but”—and the hopeless shrug
of the shoulders.
Ken walked dejectedly back to billets
If his fr'end had been badly wounded—or
even ki’led—in the front line, it would
have affected him deeply. But he felt an
overpowering sense of the injustice of it
all, that this man, who could have stayed
peaceably in his own far country wflhout
incurring the slightest stigma, should have
endured all these months of war—to be
outed by a rotten mule! He felt sick at
heart with the war—with the entire world
If he could only lay his bare hands on the
people responsible for all this wanton
slaughter!
With the coming of spring the ever-
persistent rumor increased in strength.
Ever since the brigade had come to France
hope remained to keep alive the question,
“When will we get our horses back?”
Close on a year of trench warfare had
not smothered that hope, for a cavalryman
never forgets the electric thrill of the
squadron wheeling into line, the ever-
increasing speed of drumming hoofs, and the
last mad, yelling minute as the solid line
of flashing, thrusting steel hurls itself into
the charge.
But hopes long deferred gave the rumor
a cynical reception, even when the regi-
ment found itself withdrawn far back from
the line. Even when they exchanged their
infantry equipment for bandolier and the
straight, thin-bladed sword that was replac-
ing the old cavalry weapon, a hardened
few still muttered “Bullswool!”
Then came the horses, and men wore a
new light in their eyes. Once again they
were cavalry. The big push was coming.
The hoary-headed second in command
beamed like a schoolboy. Thank God he
still had a chance to die like a gentleman!
In July the long column rode south.
Excited rumors "flew everywhere. A big
offensive had started on the Somme, at the
junction of the British and French armies.
One bright, sunny afternoon they
approached a long line of G.S. waggons,
stationary by the roadside. The horses
were missing, but the K.C.’s looked
with increasing interest on the bronzed
men lounging by the waggon or on waggon-
pole, stripped to the waist, one and all
occupied in the war’s perennial pastime,
to the exclusion of everything else.
One sun-tanned giant, dressed only in
breeches and a slouch hat, dragged himself
to his feet as the head of the column
approached, saluted gravely, and picked up
his shirt again. Walker turned a pair of
dancing eyes to the half-section in his rear.
“I wonder is he a colonel or a corporal.
Craigie?” His voice took on a rasping
Canadian accent. “Say, fellas, they’ve let
Australia into the war! We’ll all be home
by Christmas!”
He laughed delightedly at the chorus of
derisive epithets.
“Bullswool!”
“Cajdte la boca!”
Ken looked over the slouch-hatted figures
with a stirring in his blood. He was among
his own countrymen again! Some of the
old Corella mob might be in France even
now. He called to a lanky, sunburned
corporal who looked as though he might be
a Queenslander.
“Where are you from?”
The lean face glanced casually at the
speaker. “Oh, some flamin’ place they cal!
Marseilles.”
Despite himself, Ken had to smile. After
all, the King’s Colonials wore British uni-
form—to the Australians they looked like
any other “Tommy mob.”
As they approached the Somme, excite-
ment rose higher and higher. Guns were
everywhere, in numbers that put heart into
the greatest croaker; the air was full of
British and French ’planes; roads were
jambed with continuous lines of troops
and supply trains.
By the time they had pitched their
bivvies by the horse-lines in Happy Valley,
one and all had rapturously decided that
this was the real thing. For here were
cavalry, not regiments nor brigades—but
divisions! All the crack British regiments,
camped side by side with French cuirassiers
and dusky French colonial cavalry—big
men in huge red Morocco saddles, perched
on absurd little Arab ponies.
For days they watered their horses and
awaited the signal, while the artillery battle
rose to a pitch undreamed of. From weary,
chalk-spattered infantrymen they got news
of points taken at tremendous cost. Fritz
was fighting doggedly for every inch of
ground.
Then hopes flagged as the cavalry began
to move back by regiments and brigades.
At last the King’s Colonials found them-
selves with a lone regiment of French
cavalry, last remnants of the break-through-
that-did-not-come-off!
But the King’s Colonials stayed on the
Somme, and rejoiced. It was good, clean
cavalry country. The chalky soil had a
natural drainage, the mud was negligible,
and life was a relief after the heavy low-
lands of Belgium.
As the offensive continued and the British
troops crept doggedly eastward, the Kings
Colonials were allotted as corps cavalry,
and found themselves engaged on all sorts
of jobs—dispatch-riding, escorting Generals
and Princes of the Realm, taking batches
of prisoners back to the high, barbed-wire
cages.
The regiment was ideally suited for the
v'”"'"'" : obs. French o >’ir>v were along-
side them. Corps required liaison patrols
o ii.Sii who spoKe Frencii. From the King s
Colonials fifty names were taken as fast as
they could be written, more than hah
claiming French as the mother tongue. A
call came for men to take charge of Chinese
labor gangs—three commonplace looking
troopers admitted acquaintance with
Chinese dialects, and disappeared for a
time.
Walker, the lanky Australian, wangled a
job in the Intelligence Department, ami
Ken, escorting a batch of newly-captured
prisoners to the cage at Montauban, found
Walker interrogating a burly Bavarian.
German flowing from him as smoothly and
naturally as his native tongue. Ken had
heard h ; m barter tobacco for canteen wine
with a French trooper the week before, his
French as easy and fluent then as his
German now.


(5
u
T
-5*
N
JV%f
s>*s
*1
H
N
j_zw
IV V
'„ Jfo-; '* l
oU trr '-iK
<m
1--V
“HAVE THE BEST
-IT PAYS”
A few Shredded Wheatmeal Biscuits for breakfast mean light energetic
morning hours they are a powerful aid to digestion.
Try these Delicious Biscuits also:
Date Sandwich, Dudley Cream, Good Luck, Honey Jumble
AHNOTPS
FAMOUS
SHHBDDBD
WHAIIfIAL
BISCUITS
Made in Australia by WILLIAM ARNOTT LIMITED,
bISCUIT SPECIALISTS of over 60 years’ experience,
from Australian-grown produce, financed by Aus-
tralians, and produced by highly-trained Australian
Workers.
HELP THE NATION —CONVERT YOUR BONDS
W.IITE FOK FREE SAMPLES AND PRICES
*
WALLPAPER INCREASES
SELLING & LETTING VALUES
GOOD LIGHTING IS ALSO
IMPORTANT
and the new Electroliers of
Spanish and Colonial type
will delight you.
The new wallpapers are individual
in style and colorful in design.
They transform dingy rooms into rooms
of elegance and taste, and add charm,
as well as increasing the selling and
letting value of homes and flats.
In both our Sydney and Melbourne
Showrooms we show new designs in—
Colorful and rich tapestries
Plastic effects in metallic
Spanish Morene - - Futuristic
Rich friezes - - Cut out floral
sprays, etc.
We invite your inspection and will help
you with our experience and reason-
able prices to a wise selection.
Samples and Prices Posted Anywhere.
Please call and inspect these and the latest cooking,
ironing, sweeping and polishing devices for the home.
rnnhnkUm
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
"Where d’you pick up the language,
Lanky?” he queried. “I thought you were a
dinky-di Aussie!”
“Sure!” grinned Walker in his best Can-
adian accent. “You’re Gahd-damn right
about that, too!” He became serious again.
“Ever been in South Australia, Craig?”
Ken shook his head negatively. “Only
Adelaide—passing through!”
“Well, I learnt German there as a kid,
among the cockies. There was a regular
colony of squareheads up there, and half
of them couldn’t speak English.”
“And what about your French?”
“Was in Algeria—on business—for about
a year before the war. That’s why I’m not
wearing a real hat to-day.”
Ken sensed an air of mystery about his
tall, devil-may-care countryman. He had
heard Walker compare notes with various
troopers plucked from odd corners of the
globe. In addition, the man had a natural
flair for languages. As he casually explained,
“Once you get the hang of a language, the
rest is easy. I don’t listen to the actual
words a man uses —it’s the way he uses them
that counts.”
Every week brought a letter from Ailsa,
accompanied by a parcel which, in spite of
Ken’s protestations, was always welcome.
It was a long way back to the inhabited
villages where food could be bought. Army
rations were always insufficient. Now there
were canteens where tinned stuff could be
purchased, but more than half the time you
stood in a queue for an hour, to find the
stock sold out before your turn came.
Ailsa’s letters were cheery epistles. She
had gone back to her V.A.D. work and was
veiy busy. Ken wrote once in a while, but
letter-writing was not his long suit, and
he found himself completely puzzled at
the way some chaps wrote pages every
week—and got it past the Censor. He
appreciated the Army’s “deaf-and-dumb”
postcards where you scratched out the un-
necessary and signed your name, and, like
thousands of his fellows, they formed the
bulk of his correspondence.
It was just after their arrival on the
Somme, that Ken got a short, tear-stained
note in sad contrast to the previous
gossipy letters that always seemed to
breathe the spirit of the laughing girl:
“Ken dear, —lan is dead—killed in action.
The telegram we have been dreading has
arrived, and still we cannot realise it. It’s
awful! Aivful! Mother is trying hard to
bear it, but vie are still dazed. I can’t
write any more, Ken. — Ailsa.”
“Scotty gone!” A lump in his throat
threatened to choke him.
Scotty of the red hair and freckled,
earnest face! The irony of it! Scotty,
young, just learning to enjoy life, rudely
tom out of existence, while he! The
thin, set lips parted in a mirthless, cynical
snarl. He, for whom life held nothing, and
who had asked nothing more than to get
into the thick of it, to run amok and kill,
kill, kill —till he was killed.
He possessed a disregard for danger that
amounted to foolhardiness, and had early
gained a reputation for fearlessness. Ser-
geant Jackson knew his man when he sub-
mitted Craig’s name in his list of bombers.
Their silent, nightly patrol of No Man’s
Land had resulted in their undisputed sway
of everything up to the enemy wire.
German listening-posts were doubled and
re-doubled, and sentries were still found
strangely dead, or a shower of bursting
bombs would shatter the nerve-wracking
silence—and another German post was gone.
A sort of fatalism had fallen on him—
he fully expected to be killed, and he didn’t
care a damn when his turn should come.
Why should he live on, while Scotty
Alvarez—all these thousands of good fel-
lows, went out to it in dreary Flanders mud
or the hot sands of Palestine! It was inex-
plicable! It was Kismet!
He wrote immediately to Ailsa and to
Mrs. Cameron, and the composition of the
short, stilted notes was a Herculean effort.
He felt keenly the loss of Scotty, his friend,
and what he realised but would never
admit, his faithful disciple. But how the
hell did a man put these things on paper?
A note of pessimism, of hopelessness,
crept into Ailsa’s letters, and persisted for
many weeks. The world looked bare and
grey, and Kilmarnock was the last place on
earth. Home was a dim. cheerless place
inhabited by ghosts.
Their own personal loss brought a closer
appreciation of the sorrow of others. Of
lan’s classmates, few remained alive—the
ranks of young fellows who had volunteered
at the outbreak, had been sadly thinned.
The general tone of her letters sounded like
a pibroch. “The flowers o’ the forest are
a’ wede awa’.”
The severity of the winter of 1916-17
will never be forgotten by those who lived
through it in France. Ken and half a dozen
other King’s Colonials shivered in a
draughty shelter scratched out of the cliff-
like face of Maurepas Ravine. Their only
advantage was safety from shellfire, as the
back of the cliff was towards the enemy.
Deep dug-outs, tunnelled in the ravine when
the Germans held it, were stripped of their
timbered walls till they threatened to cave
in on the foragers. Fuel was so scarce that
the tiny fire was lit only in the evenings,
and every bit of heat was jealously hus-
banded. Morland. who had spent half a
lifetime in the Punjab, was taken to hos-
pital with pneumonia after a week of it. It
was a mere precarious existence for the
rest. For weeks on end they never knew
what it was to be really warm. Those
among them whose blood had been thinned
by the heat of the tropics found themselves
becoming more or less comatose —physi-
cally and mentally.
The section’s particular duty was dispatch
riding. Every morning before dawn a
trooper emerged, chill and breakfast-
less, from the hessian-shielded doorway,
scrambled through rusting wire and snow-
filled shell-holes to Brigade H.Q. in the
front line trenches that faced the black
skeleton trees of the wood of St. Pierre
Vaast. Dispatches were brought back to
the ravine, and relayed to their destina-
tion by a waiting mounted trooper.
The horses suffered with the men. Stabled
in a rough, hessian-walled shelter, scant
protection against the icy winds that
screamed down the length of the ravine,
the poor brutes had no better life than the
troopers. They shivered—and hoped they
might survive to see the sun again.
Men became quiet or sullen, according to
their natures. Paradise was any nlace that
afforded warmth and a meal that really
satisfied—as a change from the hors-
d’oeuvres that constituted their present
rations.
Ken, returning hungry and haggard with
the dispatch wallet, was hardly prepared
for the sullen, almost hostile air of the little
group. Something unknown to him had
evidently occurred to get their backs up.
After the first keen glance he affected not
to notice the strained manner, and his
face took on its expressionless mask.
“Any breakfast left?” he queried shortly.
“Who’s going back with the dispatches?”
“You are.”
The man straightened as far as the low,
dripping roof would allow, and his gaze
ra.n coldly over the group.
“What’s the big idea?”
“Only this!”
Riordan passed over a slip of paper. Ken
took it suspiciously and read with difficulty
in the dim light:
“No. 5401. Tpr. Craig, W. K., will
report immediately to Regtl. H.Q.
before proceeding to England on leave.”
He read and re-read the note with a feel-
ing that it was a forgery. It was incredu-
lous! Things like this didn’t really happen.
Getting back to the regiment was good
enough—they were in decent huts back near
Corbie—almost in civilisation. But leave!
England! Real food! Baths! A real bed!
Doggedly he bent down and collected his
few belongings. In the low doorway he
turned, meeting their envious glances with
a belligerent, still doubting expression.
“It seems too good to be true, but I’m
going to find out. If any parcels ever come
for me—hop into them! So long!”
The five shivering, hungry men listened
to his slippery progress down the frozen
slope, then the clack of a horse’s hoofs on
the icy surface came up to them. Each gazed
in a tense silence anywhere but at his
neighbor. They felt as if an angel had
swooped down into their corner of Hell and
transported one of their number into
Paradise.
At Boulogne, for a consideration, a mili-
tary policeman conducted Ken to a com-
fortable hotel across the bridge, instead of
sending him to spend the night under a
single threadbare blanket on top of wind-
swept Hill 60. Here was luxury. Strange
to realise you had a room to yourself after
the communal army life. A real French
feather-bed, at least three feet deep. Bliss-
fully he climbed into it and sank in its
luxurious softness. It seemed to close over
him. He felt suffocated. The close room,
the feeling of instability about the bed
kept him wide awake. A distant clock
struck hour after hour. Still he lay with-
out closing his eyes, and at last rose and
dressed wearily, long before the chilly dawn.
So much for the dream of the real bed!
London was a stirred antheap of khaki,
brass-hats a.nd war restrictions. Red-
tabbed staff officers abounded, demanding
to be saluted. The leave-train dissolved
into the arms of women. He received his
share of solicitations with a curt head-
shake'. London seemed a good place to get
out of.
He was carried along with a surging
crowd to the Tube. The train was packed.
Ken, balancing on his rifle, felt a tap at his
elbow, and turned to find a white-haired
old gentleman in shining silk hat. gesticulat-
ing. trying to make himself heard above the
rattle of the train.
“Just from the front?”
Ken nodded casually. The little man rose
courteously. “I will feel honored if you
will accept my seat—and something to buy
a few cigarette? with.” He smiled benignly,
then moved briskly on as the conductor
jerked the door open and yelled something
unintelligible.
Ken looked dazedly at the something in
the palm of his hand—a two-shilling piece.
He felt inclined to laugh; yet the stately,
old-world kindliness of the donor affected
him not a little. He had enough money for
all his needs, yet most British Tommies
would have welcomed the gift.
Quietly he glanced round the crowded
compartment. Next him sat a white-faced
young woman holding a pinched-looking,
big-eyed baby—both poorly dressed. As
he rose to leave the train he held up the
two-shilling piece. The baby fingers hesi-
tated. then grasped it tightly. He smiled
quietly at the pale-faced woman. “That’s
from the old chap. I don’t smoke cigar-
ettes.”
(To be continued next week.)


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A. combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
i Themistocles 11,500 tons, Sept. 9
*Nestor .. 15,000 „ Oct. 6
tCeramic . . 18,500 ~ Oct. 26
*Anchises . . 10,000 „ Nov. 24
tEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Dec. 9
'First class only tFirst and third class.
{Cabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
) Joint
Agents
Legal Notice.
JO MATHEW MAHON JOHN MAHON BRIDG
MAHON and JANE MAHON (children of Ro
Mahon and his wife Anne nee Fox) ELL'
ROLAND nee Lowry (child of Arthur Lowr;
MARGARET EGAN nee Claffey and WILLI/
OLAFFEY DANTEL - CLAFFEY and JAM’
7LAFFEY (children of James Claffey and his wi
Bridget nee Fox all being first cousins of Jol
Fox deceased).
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court .
Justice Irish Free State made in the Matter of tl
Estate of John Fox deceased late of Ires Sargen
Buenos Aires Thomas Fox v. John Galvin. A
persons claiming to be the next-of-kin of the sai
John Fox living at the date of his death on th
22nd day of March 1925 and especially his fir c
cousins a’ove named are on or before the 14th day
of October 1931 to enter and prove their claims a
the Central Office Law Courts Dublin. Wednesday
the 21st day of October 1931 at the Examiner’s
Office Law Courts Dublin is appointed for hearing
and adjudicating on the claims.
Any person who can give any information regard-
ing the said next-of-kin is requested to communicate
with the undermentioned Solicitors.
Dated the 24th day of June, 1931.
JOHN HEALY, Examiner.
WHITE & MEARES, Solicitors Having Carriage,
16 Molesworth Street, Dublin.
Legal Notice.
) GEORGE DOWLING a lawful brother of JANE
DOWLING deceased and the Children of said
irge Dowling.
Pursuant to an Order of the High Court of
stice Saorstat Eireann made in the matter of the
tate of Jane Dowling deceased Collins v. Dowling
' persons claiming to be next-of-kin of Jane
•wling late of the Abbey Presentation Convent
•adbally in the Queen’s County Ireland and par-
-ularly the abovenamed George Dowling and his
ildren are on or before the 11th day of November
'3l to enter and prove their claims at the Central
bee Law Courts Dublin or in default thereof
'ey will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
the said. Order.
Wednesday the 18th day of November 1931 at the
Examiner’s Office at the said Courts is appointed for
earing and adjudicating on the claims.
Dated this 17th day of July, 1931.
JOHN HEALY,
Examiner.
Eugene F. Collins & Son,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
19 Eustace Street, Dublin.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Legal Notice.
"TO ELIZABETH SEABORN O’TOOLE (nee HINDS)
FORMERLY OF MELBOURNE AUSTRALIA A
SISTER OF ISAAC HINDS DECEASED WHO DIED
INTESTATE IN NEW ZEALAND ON THE 14TH
DAY OF NOVEMBER 1929 AND TO HER
CHILDREN AND ALL PERSONS CLAIMING B 1
THROUGH OR UNDER THEM.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the 14th day
of August 1931 by a Judge of the Supreme Court
of New Zealand you are hereby called upon to send
in to the undersigned on or before the 31st day of
March 1932 your claims to the estate of the above-
named deceased failing which the said estate will
be distributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 17th day of August.
1931.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
For Sale.
POMERANIAN PEDIGREE PUPPIES—
£2/2/- and *3/3/-. Black miniature,
orange, white. Fox Terriers. Goldbkight,
Pomeranian and Toy Dog Kennels, Fair-
field, N.S.W.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
An interesting candidate for the spring
handicaps returned to the turf at Warwick
Farm on Saturday—Burracootboo, a four-
year-old gelded brother to a good horse,
Goshawk, both being by Magpie—Fadelma.
Burracootboo is a big fellow, but shows
quality, and this Page took such a fancy
to him last season that it chose him for
the Hobartville Stakes, won by Veilmond.
He was not prominent in that race, but in
Phar Lap’s Chelmsford Stakes he was among
the leaders to the home turn, where he ran
wide. After that Albert Wood, who trains
him for a member of the Longworth family,
put him aside for a twelvemonth. Favorite,
at 5 to 4, for the Farm Stakes. Burracoot-
boo was in front in a few strides, and after
(hat it was a procession. The Magpie bay
ran. the mile in lmin. 3945ec., and though
Nash and Rowan Berry, the second and
third horses, are not much good, he disposed
of them like a racehorse.
Burracootboo has 7st. 71b. in the Epsom
and a pound less in the Metropolitan. Wood,
a crack jockey in other years, and a better
judge of a horse than most jockeys, has
hopes that he will stay.
Chatham was out of sorts after his dash-
ing victory at Rosehill, but a visit to the
dentist —a couple of teeth were extracted —
put him right again. Naturally, he did not
keep his engagement in the Hobartville
Stakes, and the betting greatly favored
Ammon Ra, McShortodds demanding 2
to 1. The brilliant Maorilander won
on the bit from Flying Dave (7 to 2) and
Movie Star (12 to 1), who came fast from
a beaten field; and, galloping, as he did,
Bert: # Shes> moving now.g^rt"
Giert:"Not e>/\d, But let her go!"
Bert Well, nne a-re touching,
SIXTY V
GiERT*. Only sixty ! Oh shes got
Engine trouble of some
sort *
seven furlongs in lmin. 26sec., Ammon Ra is
a warmer favorite than ever for the A.J.C.
Derby. Still, as the next race was to demon-
strate, he will have strong N.S.W. opposi-
tion, nor will it be confined to Chatham.
• •••••
Veilmond, on whom McCarten was expected
to have as easy a ride as he had on Ammon
Ra, was also at 2 to 1 on for the Warwick
Stakes. Chide’s price was 3 to 1 and 7 to
2. Few paid any attention to the three-
year-olds, Johnnie Jason (Treclare —Sweet
Rosaleen) and Cypress (Limond —Cymene),
though there was a trifle of Newcastle money
at 15’s for Johnnie Jason, who gallops with
Sir Chrystopher. The race was to show
that Veilmond and Chide are Sunday horses.
Each was near enough at the turn to have
a winning chance if he was good—or will-
ing—enough, but Johnnie Jason, who had
made the running, trailed by Cypress, came
away from that point. Cypress gained a
bit on him, but was eventually beaten by
half a length (in lmin. 38sec.), Chide being
three lengths behind the young gelding from
Maoriland, and Veilmond a bad fourth. The
usual excuses were made for Veilmond, but
the truth is that he is a fainthearted brute,
and so is Chide. The showing of both Johnnie
Jason and Cypress gives them Derby chances.
Another Sunday horse in John Buchan
failed backers of favorites (be was 3 to 1)
in the Spring Hand’cap, but he condescended
to run third. Sunlover (14 to 1) set up a
good lead, but he was passed in the run
home by the improved Black Douglas (4
to 1), who has 7st. 51b. in the Metrop. Love
Song (9 to 2) could not stay the distance,
11 furlongs, which was traversed in 2min.
21 sec.
All the 18 starters for the Campbelltown
Handicap are in the Epsom, but not many
were backed. Those who were consisted of
Tom Pinch (5 to 1) and Holdfast and Legis-
lator (sixes), Waugoola and Gesture (8 to
1). Holdfast was soon out in front, but he
doesn’t hang on as well as he did last season,
and in the straight he was settled in a few
strides by Tom Pinch. Tom. in his turn,
had to encounter challenges from half a
dozen horses spread all over the track, and
he went under by a head to Legislator, with
King Crow, Holdfast’s stable-companion,
next, It might be as well to remember that
first, second and third have had a lot of
racing, and are therefore more seasoned than
most of those behind them. The Bulletin’s
Epsom fancy, Sun Eagle, was running on
nicely at the finish.
Sir Duninald, a model of consistency, had
a well-deserved win in the Glenlee Handi-
cap from Port Said and Vigne; he was
second favorite at fives. As at Rosehill
Spearman (unbacked again) was doing good
work when the issue had been decided. One
of the best middle-distance horses at Iland-
wick, he is racing into capital shape, and is
not being overweighted.
$
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Tre-Ennis;
next, Cypi’css.
Flying Handicap: Calendo; next, Hunt
the Slipper.
Canterbury Stakes: Ammon Ra or Tom
Pinch; next. Holdfast.
September Handicap; Bosmina; next,
Warneton.
Campsie Handicap: Sislene; next, Potent.
;{s v jJ:
Melbourne racing followers have anew
toy to play with, and are indulging in an
orgy of totalisator speculation, to the dis-
may of McShortodds. The place machine is
proving particularly popular. Lamentations
are heard in all parts of the ring, where
loud-voiced fielders who formerly disdained
to accept small bets now crave for such
custom.
Each division of the Three-year-old Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley was captured by a
son of Heroic. This was the initial meet-
ing, under statutory enactment, to provide
compensation for the owuers of delicensed
Melbourne courses. It could have yielded
little profit, as a rainstorm in the early
afternoon kept many intending patrons away.
St. Valour, on whom Frank Dempsey cap-
tured the first division of the race for three-
year-olds, surprised his owner, F. S. Meyers.
Odds of 20 to 1 went begging about St.
Valour, but Herolage commanded a strong
following in his race. This gelding, who
hailed from Sydney, is trained by Len
McCann, now’- located at Caulfield.
The club had the rare, experience of being
compelled to run its steeplechase, in two
divisions. Ancient Mariner (favorite) won
the first in handsome style. Dynon, rider
of Patriotic, was suspended for a month for
carelessness in allowing his mount .to be
deprived of third place; he obviously was
caught napping. The victory of West Wing
in the second division disclosed that this
undersized gelding has returned in his b n st
form, after being long out of action owing
to a fall at Caulfield. He is now in the
Orleigh Park stable, which has handled few
jumpers since the era of that great timber-
topper Caibye. In the Trial Hurdle an
exc'ting finish was witnessed, Royalson last-
ing just long enough to stall off Waterline’s
stablemate, Lanneret.
Bay of Islands and St. Lucia returned fine
dividends in the Compensation Handicap and
August Handicap respectively. Each led
practically from end to end; but. whereas
Bay of Islands was untroubled. St. Lucia
scraped Ijome by a mere head from the un-
lucky Gracwin. The former Sydney trainer
Tindall made a disastrous plunge on Gold
Lining in the first division of the Three-
year-old Handicap. His Top Gallant geld-
ing was one of several runners whose chances
were destroyed by the barrier rising slowly
at one extremity. Fulham, who has in-
herited stamina from Poitrei, had an easy
task in the middle-distance Trial Handicap,
for which he was backed off the card.
*
His victory in the Undei-wood Stakes at
Williamstown (Vic.) made it clear that
Phar Lap is as great a galloper now as at
any period of his career. The son of Night
Raid looked as big as a bullock when
stripped ; Telford had not been able to give
him a sufficiency of fast work on the rain-
sodden tracks at Braeside, near Mentone.
Yet Phar Lap smothered Wise Force, a
brilliant and thoroughly strung-up horse.
Waterline finished out of a place at Wil-
liamstown. He seemed to be suffering from
some muscular trouble before the race, but
the club’s veterinary surgeon reported that
there was nothing seriously amiss. These
rivals are engaged in the Memsie Stakes, to
be run at Caulfield on Saturday; the dis-
tance (nine furlongs) is a furlong farther
than was traversed at the seaside course.
It is a guinea to a gooseberry on Phar Lap
scoring again, though Idle Banter, a most
promising three-year-old, may make things
interesting if he goes to the post. Possibly
Adam Skirving may avoid the weight-for-age
encounter and produce Waterline for the
Heatherlie Handicap, run later in the after-
noon. Fancies: —-
Memsie Stakes: Phar Lap; next, Water-
line.
Heatherlie Handicap: Waterline or Lord
Essex; next, Dark Man.
* * * #
Jim Barden, who died in Sydney last week
at 62, was one of Australia’s leading jockeys
in his prime, and in later years developed
into a very successful trainer. He began his
riding at country meetings, and made his
early appearances in Sydney in jumping
races. A bad spill or two led to his retire-
ment from that branch of the game, but
for some years he was in the first rank of
the flat-racing contingent. He rode winners
of practically all the classic races, and took
the Epsom four times: on Djin Djin, Con-
test and twice on Melodrama. He won two
A. J.C. Derbies on.Collarit and Abundance, and
a Leger with Sir Leonard. In Victoria he
steered Parthian to victory in the 1900
Leger and Yabba Yabba in the Oaks of
1906. Asa trainer Barden did well for the
late John Brown, for whom he won £60,000
in stakes. Among the good horses passing
through his hands were Duke Foote, Prince
Viridis and Wallace Isinglass in the earlier
days, and later Greenline and Casque d’Or.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Last week-end was a quiet one in Sydney
boxing circles, the most important bout
being between Queensland abo. Alby Roberts
(10.6) and Jack Roberts (10.5), who was
once Newcastle’s knockout king, at Leich-
hardt on Saturday night. Jack Roberts only
had to punch opponents properly a couple
of years ago. and out they'd go, but his name-
sake knocked him out of the ring for the
full count in the seventh. At the same con-
vincing ground Jack Heeney (10.6) stoppeu
Jack H'alliday (10.8) in seven rounds on
Friday. At Sydney Stadium Joe Hall (7.12)
was too tall and long in the reach for Mickey
Rogers (7.12).
Footbrawl
Though Melbourne’s usual Saturday-morn-
ing rain, with a threat of more to follow,
affected the gates, bright sunshine and a
22.000 crowd favored Carlton and Colling-
wood when they met at Victoria Park in
the afternoon. Knowing that defeat meant
a possibility of being outed from the final
four, the Magpies played a hard and well-
concerted game from the start. So correct
was their passing and so well backed up
that at half-time they had scored 11 goals
7 behinds to Carlton’s 2 goals 7 behinds.
The Blues struggled gamely, except for a
few passengers, but could make no headway,
and the rout ended with ’Wood 135 to
Carlton’s 74. The other games had little-
bearing on the premiership position. Foots-
cray beat Melbourne by 72 to 3S, Richmond
downed Essendori with 152 to 101, Geelong
notched 76 to Fitzroy’s 62. South Melbourne-
trounced Hawthorn by 90 to 59, and St. Kilda
scored 81 to North Melbourne’s 50. Next
Saturday Carlton meets Footscray, and if
the Blues win the Tricolors' name is Mud.
If the latter win they may yet squeeze into
the four by piling up a mountain of points
against North the week following; but there
is a deuce of a lot of “if” about all this.
* * * ■*
The Australian Rugby side in Maoriland
suffered its second defeat in three matches
when Canterbury, holder of the Ranfurly
Shield this season, won at Christchurch
16-13—2 tries, both converted, and 2 penalty
goals to 3 tries, 2 of which were converted.
Australian teams usually do well on the
Christchurch ground, where conditions
approximate more closely to the Australian
variety than those obtaining elsewhere in
Maoriland. The visitors seem to have had
much the better of the play on this occasion,
apart from the penalties, and were attack-
ing dangerously in the closing stages. The
All Blacks, who will meet them in the only
Test match of the tour at Auckland on Sep-
tember 12, include few players who have been
seen on this side. Bush, the brilliant full-back,
who was here earlier in the season with the
M.L. Universities, will be custodian. Then
come Ball, Oliver, Hart, Lilburne, Strang
and Corner. The forwards include Cottrell.
Solomon, Jessup, Steere. Purdue, Max.
Batty and Metcalfe. Mackay is the emer-
gency back and Anderson stands by in the
forwards.
: ! ; v v
The N.S.W. Rugby Union closed its season
on Saturday, when Northern Suburbs beat
Manly 17-9 in the final of the knock-out
competition, Manly taking second place for
the season in both the Union tourneys. To
do the seaside club justice it had several of
its stars away in Maoriland, while Northern
Suburbs had lost only one forward.
é


■
1
.
ft/
SK mi St. «
' : .;
Jm
FRANK EYRE, Australian Champion, 1930.
LET ME
TEACH YOU
TO PLAY
SCIENTIFIC
GOLF
MY METHODS
have been adopted by hun-
dreds of Golfers throughout
Australia during this year, and
most excellent results have
been obtained.
THE FRANK F.YRE
Postal Golfing Course is the
finest and cheapest course of
its kind in the world. My
literature gives *y° u full infor-
mation in reference to it.
Write to me to-day for par-
ticulars.
THE COURSE THAT REMAINS WITH YOU FOR ALL TIMES.
My course is profusely illustrated throughout with full directions in reference
to Golf. To those people who are far away it does not make a scrap of difference.
I can teach you just as if you were standing in front of me. As an instructor
of years standing and one who has had the pleasure of instructing many of
Australia’s finest Golfers, I can say that this well-thought-out Golfing Course
will improve your game out of all recognition. It is truly a most wonderful
bargain. Many men and women have reduced their handicap by half in three
months. The course occupies three months.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
To obtain full details, cut out Coupon in this advertisement, sign it clearly and
post to-day. On receipt of it all particulars will be sent to you by return post.
Don’t miss this genuine opportunity.
ê
COUPON.
21.
To FRANK EYRE,
209 a Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Dear Frank Eyre,—Kindly ' send me lull particulars
regarding- your Postal Golfing- Course. I enclose 2d. stamp
to help in postage
NAME
ADDRESS
TOWN
STATE
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: Melbourne football clubs
have been feeling the pinch of the depression
keenly, and this has been augmented by a
series of wet Saturdays. At the beginning of
the season the clubs decided on a payment of
£3 a match to players, but only three have
been able to keep it up, these being Garl-
ron, Richmond and Footscray. Others have
dropped rates as low as ss. per match, and
one is unable to pay anything at all. Further
reductions are forecast, and altogether foot-
ball in Melbourne is far from being the
lucrative industry it once was.
* * * :jt
“Magpie”: A rare football veteran was
honored when Collingwood dined and wined
,T. Mcllale, and presented him with a cheque
for £250. Mcllale has tallied 29 years’ ser-
vice with Collingwood as player and coach,
and only the famous Dick Dee can rival his
playing period of 17 years. During Mcllale’s
21 years’ reign as coach, the ’Woodmen have
been nine times premiers and ten times
runners-up—a wonderful record.
V : !* ;Js
“Wig”: The Law seems to have a curious
affinity with Rugby _ Union football. At
least one N.S.AV. Chief Justice played for
England and N.S.W., while another figured
for Scotland and the State, and yet another
for the State only. The appointment of
solicitor H. D. (“Harry”) Wood as Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court carries on
the tradition. The new official is president
of the Rugby Union and has done a lot since
his appointment some years ago to revive
the dry bones. In his playing days he was
a full-back of note, though in the "pony”
class in point of inches. That did not prevent
him from representing N.S.W. against
Queensland in both matches in 1898.
* *
“Albert Park”: The extent to which the
Rugby Union game has progressed in Mel-
bourne may be gauged by the result of the
inter-University tourney just completed in
Yarraville, the home team coming out on
top after downing both Queensland and
Sydney’Varsities. Considering that both these
have been playing Union Rugby for years,
and that Sydney Uni. especially is one of
the outstanding forcing beds of the game in
Australia, the success of the Yarrasiders,
comparative novices as they are, is hearten-
ing to those who desire to see the great
international code soundly established in
Victoria.
* * *
“Stand Off”: Though not unexpected,
there was disappointment at the news that
the Australian Rugby Union side had lost
its second match, after drawing with Otago,
Southland beating the tourists 14-8 on a
heavy wet ground at Invercargill. Southland
is noted for its elephantine forwards and is
a darned hard proposition on its own midden.
The big home vanguard, as usual, spoiled
the opposite backs for all it was worth, and
seems to have been aided by faulty handling
by the Australian inside backs in the earlier
periods of the game. The first half gave
Southland a converted try. In the second
spell the home side added three tries and
Australia two, one converted by Ross. A
XV from Australia has never yet won in
Southland. The Queensland team of 1896
lost there, and three N.S.W. sides which
have risked the hoodoo have also gone down.
The last Australian team to play there, that
of 1913, was beaten 13-8.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: Australia will see some inter-
national tennis this coming season, after all.
Harada and Hyotara Satoh, the two leading
Japanese players, have cabled the Australian
tennis authorities in Melbourne definitely
accepting the invitation and stating that the
team will arrive in December. The names of
other players are not yet known, but probably
Count Hota, president of the Japanese
Tennis Association, will be one of them.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Helen Wills, now known as
Mrs. Wills-Moody, is still supreme. In
the national women’s championship of
America at Forest Hills she again took the
singles title, beating Mrs. Whittingstall, of
England, easily in two straight sets. It is
a matter for regret, however, that the Ger-
man championette, Fraulein Aussem, could
not cross the Atlantic to measure racquets
with the Wills. The little German girl
brought off a unique treble this season by
taking the British, French and German
singles titles for women, and it would have
been interesting to see her, evidently at the
top of her form, stacked up against the
famous American.
v **' V *j»
“Rev. Knucklebone”: An attempt by two
young women to turn out in shorts at a
recent French tennis tourney was banned by
the officials. Why, it is hard to say, since
in most of the other sports on which lovely
woman has intruded herself skirts have been
gradually abandoned. The girl athletes have
gone further, for any day on the running
tracks you will_ see dozens of them clad in
the most abbreviated of running trunks, some
of them closely approximating in cut and
fit to the scanty togs affected by the profes-
sional peds in the days when the spiked-shoe
game was booming.
* *
“Let”: Following the recovery of : the
Wightman Cup by the American women’s
team, Gordon Lowe, the English tennis ex-
pert, advocates that the competition for the
pot, hitherto confined to players from Eng-
land and America, should be thrown open to
the world, as is the Davis Cup for men. To
do so would be looking for trouble. The
amenities have more than once been strained
in the Davis Cup competitions, while at least
once in the Wightman matters nearly came
to scratching point. This was when America
unexpectedly lost the Cup in England a
couple of years ago, and it was then dis-
covered that they were so sure of winning
that they had left the utensil on the other
side of the Atlantic.
The Nineteenth Hole
The first of the Australian golf champion-
ships, the foursomes, opened the big meet-
ing in Sydney last week, the winners turn-
"ig up in R. H. Bettington and C. H. Faw-
cett, after a keen struggle with young Jim
Ferner and that old warhorse Eric Apperly,
Bettington and Fawcett got home by a stroke,
with rounds of 74 and 75. Both hail from the
Boyal Sydney club and each has figured pro-
minently in championship golf. The con-
sistent Fawcett, indeed, has the amateur
championships of N.S.W. and Victoria to
his credit. The inter-State matches at the
same meeting were won by Victoria, which
beat N.S.W. 4 to 3 and (Queensland 6 to 1.
The N.S.W,-Victoria maLch saw a great
struggle between the two infant phenomenons,
Jim Ferrier, of N.S.W., and Victorian H‘. L.
Williams, the latter winning witn a long
putt on the 19th green.
❖ % #
“Divot Digger”: Rufus Stewart, of South
Australia, over in Sydney for the national
golf championships, nas been expressing his
surprise that no charge is made to spectators
of the play. In corresponding British tour-
neys, he says, there is a tariff of 2s. 6d. per
head. Over 15,000 paid this to see the British
Open at Carnoustie, and the benefit of such
a system to the clubs and tue governing
bodies of the game is obvious. Here it
would enable the building up of funds to
help teams of golfers to tour Britain and
America, and thus gain the experience of the
big stuff which Australian players for the
most part notoriously lack.
* * * :Jc
“Sandringham”: Australia is shortly to
have a home-made golf-ball. The game has
gone ahead at such a rate of late years, from
one end of the country to the othi.r, that
there is now a very large .and assured market.
Spaldings are pioneering the industry, and
Gerald Patterson, who has recently been in
America, has made arrangements for a
modern manufacturing plant capable of pro-
ducing high-quality balls on a mass-produc-
tion scale. Imported balls are now worth
almost their weight in gold.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Randwick is the latest of
the Sydney suburban councils to dally with
the idea of laying down a 9-liole golf-course,
probably on Randwick Park. Envy has
been aroused as the result of a similar experi-
ment in the neighboring dorp of Woollahra,
which recently made a course at a cost of
£1200; though only ratepayers and residents
can use it, takings are £75 per week. It is
expected that the gross income for the year
will approximate £3500, while cost of main-
tenance annually will not exceed £750. Who
said hard times V
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Australian Universities
golf championship, played this year on the
Kingston Heath course in Melbourne, was
won by T. S. McKay, of Sydney, with a card
of 166 for 36 holes. H‘is two rounds were
81 and 84, high for a player of his standing—
he is a plus-man in the Cammeray (N.S.W.)
club —but the game was played in a gusty
wind that made conditions very tricky. His
nearest rival, J. M. Baillieu, of Melbourne,
finished 14 strokes worse.
=5 * * *
The untimely death of B. J. C. Bettington
—he was only 34 —will be regretted by every
admirer of a good sportsman. Born at
Merfiwa (N.S.W.) he was the rival at The
King’s School of brother R.H., but ill health
subsequently checked his athletic progress at
Oxford and on his return home. He was a
fine golfer and with his brother won the
N.S.W. foursomes in 1929. He was also
a cricketer of parts, and was captain of the
Hunter River team for a couple of country
weeks. He figured on one occasion in the
combined country side against the city.
Sfc jjS ;!*
“Wow”: It was bound to come. Melbourne
churches have started an intensive campaign
against Sunday golf. The Sunday-sport
issue in Melbourne bears a comic resemblance
to the prohibition issue in the U.S.A. All
the best people agree that games should not
be allowed on the Sabbath. That is to say,
amongst the poorer classes. Games are held
to be as bad for them as drink is bad for
the workers of the U.S.A., in the opinion of
American employers. Unfortunately you
can’t have bootleg sport. The hoi polloi see
the magnificoes of the city bowling off in
cars to Royal Melbourne and similar haunts
of luxury, and argue that if Sunday sport is
to be stopped for one it should be stopped
for all. And that, if the anti-golf Sabba-
tarians don’t watch their step, is what they
will bring about. It only needs an Act of
Parliament, which a Labor Government
would be quite willing to pass in certain cir-
cumstances. The result might be less work
for a few, but it would end by driving hun-
dreds of moneyed folk out of Melbourne—-
already one of the dullest places to spend a
Sunday in on earth.
Car and Cycle
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland has been taking a
turn at establishing motor-car records. The
other day one Ken Wilkinson, driving a
standard model Ford coupe, went for new
figures on the Auckland-Wellington run,
doing the whole distance in top gear with a
sealed bonnet. His time worked out at
lOhr. 49min., Wilkinson himself driving
throughout. This knocks spots off the seven-
year-old record of Norman Smith, who took
nearly two hours longer. Express-train time
is 14hr. 21min.
“Differential”: How foolproof the modern
motor-car can be is shown in the recent
long reliability run brought to a successful con-
clusion by a Vauxhall car. It was a non-stop
trip with a sealed bonnet from Melbourne to
Adelaide, and then back to Melbourne and
on to Sydney and Brisbane, with a final lap
to Yarraville again. The distance covered
was 3875 miles, and the 6-cylinder “VX” was
running for 1434 hours continuously. Of
this 130 hr. I3min. was actual travelling time,
the balance being taken up by river crossings
on ferry-punts and stoppages in the capital
cities, the engine running all the time. The
average speed for the trip was 292 m.p.h.,
splendid, considering that half the run was
done at night-time and under winter con-
ditions, which made sections of the route
very difficult to negotiate. Australian Dunlop
tyres were used, and the clean condition of
cylinders and sparking-plugs at the end of
the long journey amazed the experts, though
the engines had turned over ten and a half
million times, not counting the 13hr. 17min.
spent while “idling.”
“Disc Clutch”: Ettore Bugatti has come
out with a sporting proposition. He has
offered a prize of £2500 for a five-day race on
the Montlhery track, the competing cars to
be locked up every night. The event is to be
open to all types and sizes of cars, and the
Frenchman states that if any of his own
cars win lie will pass the reward on to the
next in line. Brooklands has been running
a 24-hour small-car competition on the “lock-
up” lines. The Montlhery event would be one
of international importance.
* * * :■!
“Kick Starter”: The German motor-cycle
speedster Henne is out to regain his title
of world’s fastest rider, which was wrested
from him early this year by Briton J. S.
Wright, who hit up 150.736 m.p.h. lienne,
who rides for the German B.M.W. firm of
motor-cycle makers, is to have a go on a
new four-cylinder machine on the Arpajon
circuit in France shortly, and will later try
for the speed record on the usual straight run.
The new machine is being kept dark, but it
is known to be supercharged.
❖ ❖
“H'otham”: Frank Nicholson, of Victoria,
fresh from his experience in the Tour de
France road race, lays the blame for the
Australian team’s failure on their inexperi-
ence in mountain climbing. Both French
and Belgian riders are past masters in this
phase of the game and in their ability to let
her go on the tremendous downhill runs was
an eye-opener to the Australian riders. The
Europeans also used machines fitted with a
range of gears, changes being made accord-
ing to the nature of the country to be tra-
versed. The value of this system was particu-
larly marked in the last few miles of the
daily stages, when the Europeans installed
gears as high as 80 inches, which they utilised
for the final sprint home, in which they
invariably excelled.
Miscellaneous
“Amateur Pro.”: A naive piece of impu-
dence is reported from Brisbane. A deputa-
tion described as representing “various”
sporting bodies asked Queensland Treasurer
Barnes to permit bookmakers to operate at
professional running meetings. Otherwise,
the chief spokesman said, as he wiped away
a tear, professional running could not pos-
sibly survive. He added as a paralysing
afterthought that the professional spiked-
shoe game “helped to build up the morale of
the Australian youth!” No one will weep
if the smellful game disappears from Aus-
tralia to-morrow except, maybe, guns and
rooks who make more or less of a living
at it by double-crossing the public and each
other. Barnes remarked that if the peds were
allowed to bet openly every other form of
sport would ask for similar concessions, and
the deputation had to be satisfied with that.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: According to the cable, the
American mulatto Eddie Tolan has put up
anew world’s record for the 100 metres,
which he is said to have covered in 10 3-10 sec.
Frank Wykoff, who has done the 100 yards
in 9 2-ssec., was second. Tolan has 10 l-ssec.
to his credit for the same distance, put up
last year at Vancouver, and that has
hitherto been accepted as the record. The
best Olympic time for the distance is 10
3-ssec., which is closer to world’s figures than
many Olympic times. It seems pretty cer-
tain that if Jim Carlton represents Australia
at the Los Angeles Olympiad he will have
tougher opposition to face in his special
events than any of his team mates.
❖ ❖ ❖ :|:
“Ebor”: Though the county games are
not yet over, Yorkshire lias won the pre-
miership for the 15th time since 1873, when
the beginnings of the qualification-of-players
system first saw the light. The big county
won 20 games and lost, only to Gloucester
in the now-famous first-innings declaration
by both sides after each had bowled only
one ball. Sutcliffe's batting and the bowl-
ing of the new men, Verity and Bowes, were
main factors in the win. Kent and Sussex
filled the places at the end of one of the
worst seasons English cricket has known.
Nearly all the counties have lost heavily,
even wealthy Yorkshire, with the huge gates
at its command, dropping £3OOO.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: J. C- White. Somerset-
shire’s skipper, and most deceiving of slow
bowlers, is retiring from first-class cricket,
the call on his farm being too insistent in
these hard-up times. The cider county will
miss him sadly, and though he is in his 40tli
year it is not improbable that England
inight have called upon him for another
Test or two. His selection for Australia
under Chapman was greatly criticised, but
his perfect length and wiliness got him more
wickets in the Tests (25) than any of his
comrades. In all matches in Australia he
headed the averages with 65 wickets, costing
22.64 runs apiece.
* * # *
“Tenth Slip”: Recently a Sydney cricket
writer of some experience advocated the aboli-
tipn of all appeals, even for leg before and
catches at the wicket. Presumably his idea
is that the batsman shall give himself out
in cases where the knock-out is not as patent,
to everyone as it is in “clean bowleds”
and catches in the country. In many cases
of a fine catch at the wicket, the batsman
cannot say whether he has touched the ball
or not, and some sort of appeal to inde-
pendent authority seems absolutely necessary,
here. The matter of leg-before opens un-
imaginable vistas. No batsman the writer
has ever known has agreed with the umpire
who has given a l.b.w. decision against him.
There may be batsmen walking on this earth
who would unhesitatingly give themselves
out 1.b.w., but no one has yet discovered a
specimen.
#
“Blue Chalk”: Though his Queensland
tour was marred by the illness of partner
Tom Newman, Walter Lindrum, playing
against local stars, gave the Bananalanders a
feast of big scores. During his stay in Bris-
bane Lindrum made eight breaks over 1000.
bringing his record for four-figure runs
to over 200, including 15 over 2000 and two
over 3000. Lindrum does not take snooker
as seriously as the three-ball game, but one
of his feats was a break of 95 at Ipswich
which included ten blacks, two blues, one
yellow and thirteen reds.


THE BEST WASHING RIBBON.
There is even a best in Ribbons, there-
fore make sure you get Cash’s Washing
Ribbons for Shoulder Straps and all
Lingerie. Cash’s Washing Ribbons do
net break or fray, and need never be
removed from the garment, as they come
out of the wash like new. Obtainable in
many dainty shades. Ask your Draper.
e
TO mariC^llunen/
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.”
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
for Name Style Circular to
1 & I f ASH AUSTRALIAN
J 01. v/lullj WEAVING CO PTY. L
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
' 12 d tiTCZs
It; &\
&.
HAPPY DAYSaKLAKE LOUISE
mmm
"ww
a'^fcwnta-'gts
Lake Louise and the Chateau.
on ihe way to England
Nestling like a jewel ’midst sublime
mountain grandeur region of inspira-
tion—one of the world’s loveliest resorts
—Lake Louise. Here is Chateau Lake
Louise, giving Canadian Pacific Hotel
service.
At Lake Louise you will find new life in the
great outdoors or mixing with the happy cosmo-
politan crowd at the fchateau. Riding—Swimming
—Climbing-—Dancing. What a setting for a
holiday. Only reached via the Canadian Pacific
route to Europe. Literature on request.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. 2/31 1
mum pacific
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Ihe World's Gfealesl 1 rave I System
I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. Tie greatest refined hotel
valu? in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
■4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all i meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in tearoom
or cafC. Full board
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling
è
teams, sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lenon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Oislinguished social life.
The women of the Nationalist party are
stepping out with the times; even in the old
Primrose League days in England the sex
was never more interested in politics. Every-
one, from the ’teen old to the grandmother,
is steeped to the eyebrows in party affairs.
A fresh impetus has been given by the forma-
tion of several Nationalist committees, in-
stead of one, to cover such areas as from
Darlinghurst to Darling Point. Young
Nationalists of both sexes have‘been rounded
up and are proving as hot on the trail of
votes as abo. trackers on the scent of plenty
’roo, plenty lizard.
A feature of the movement is the course
of lectures to make women see politics, not
as through papa’s shaving-glass, darkly and
all distorted, but starkly and face to face.
The first talk was given by Miss Dalrymple
Hay, the fair-haired, brown-eyed secretary
to Leg. Council President Peden. In lucid
sentences she told the functions of the dif-
ferent Houses of Parliament, Federal and
State. The biggest room in the National
Club was filled to capacity for this lecture;
it started at 2.30 and was still in full swing
at five, staid dowagers and bowler-hatted or
beretted flappers alike putting questions of
bewildering j ntelligence.
Railway Commissioner Cleary was a front-
seater in the Playbox on a night last week
when this Letter refreshed its soul with an
hour or two amid the “Green Pastures.” The
seats in the tiny theatre at 8 Young-street
are alternately red and green. Mr. Cleary
was not in a red chair. This much-dis-
cussed production resolves itself practically
into a series of Aliracle plays with negro
angels, saints and a negro deity. And one
imagines the writer is showing the drama of
Creation, as visualised by small black brother
and sister as they sit in Sunday-school list-
« ning to the preacher expounding the Bible.
The whole is linked together by heartbreak-
ing negro spirituals. As usual, Duncan Alac-
Dougall lias built his whole ship out of the
hap’orth of tar, and created sufficient illu-
sion. The theatre has an annexe where after
the show almost the entire audience fore-
gathers, drinks coffee and indulges in high
thinking aloud ; nor is Jehovah, his thunder-
bolts tucked away for the night, above join-
ing in the general conversation.
Have you noticed this last fortnight the
quality of ferry and train passengers mak-
ing their way theatrewards? Elderly gentle-
men with glossy opera-hats, caped coats,
dull kid shoes and white ties occur
frequently, and with them are comfortable,
contented-looking women, with smooth, tidy
heads, in solidly handsome evening wear. If
you listen to their conversation, you’ll learn
they are off to Gilbert and Sullivan. Some-
times, if they are in reminiscent mood, their
talk glitters with the names of dead and gone
stars; and chuckles like a happy epitaph
wreathe their mention of merry men of
other days.
Packed houses have been the lot of “The
Gondoliers,” and this Letter, who, unaccount
ably, had never previously heard this tune-
ful collaboration, does not wonder. From
the gay awning of that first act on the Grand
Canal, there isn’t room for one yawn in the
night’s entertainment. The feather fans,
too, of the high nobility of Plaza Toro
struck a sumptuous note with their sweep-
ing ostrich-plumes and ivory sticks.
Modernity does sometimes fail in contrast
with the Ancient; for the only counterblast
the inventor of to-day has sunnlied to dry
off the moistured brow is the buzzing, unorna-
mental electric-fan.
The Society of Artists has issued an
order that private-view day is to he a
clothes day. That is to say, woman is un-
officially commanded to arrive at the Educa-
tion Galleries dressed in her newest. There
are to he press-photographers, and she-
scribes have been notified to come prepared
to. describe frocks. Well, of course, the com-
mittee should know if the frocks in the room
are likely to be more worthy of attention
than the pictures on the walls, but even the
Girl in the Flat Opposite goes to an art
show to look at the canvases and the genius
who painted them rather than the new
spring models. Another point is that the
wearers of the finest feathers at these func-
tions are not always the ones who buy the
most pictures. A very fashionable woman
three summers ago asked the price of an
exquisitely painted fan. When told twenty
guineas, she exclaimed, “But I only paid that
for my last hat, and it’s a Paris model!”
Airs. Fotheringhame, Sydney’s senior
woman journalist, when the guest of the
Society of Women Writers had much to say
as to the climate of Brisbane, from which
city she had just returned. Long life seems
the lot of its inhabitants, and Airs. Fother-.
inghame put it down to the low tram steps
and the easy-going friendliness which pre-
vail up north. One pal of the Sydney
presswoman’s had been up at five o’clock to
mow the lawn on the morning of her old
chum’s visit; but, then, she is a mere
youngster of 85. Some of Mrs. Fotkering-
liame’s friends who turned up at all the
parties were ninetyish.
Solicitor Dick Yeomans, of the firm of
Fitzliardinge and Yeomans, has taken a bride
to preside over the old home in Ocean-street,
Woollahra. Before the marriage she was
Alolly Langwill, whose specialty was the
nursing of sick children —she is a trainee
of the Royal Alexandra. It was last Christ-
mas-time, on her return voyage from England,
where she had gone to study X-ray work,
that she received the cable asking her to
name the date. Molly’s aunt, Aliss Croudace,
who runs that well-known guestery Dunrobiu
in Roslyn Gardens, is also about to take the
plunge into matrimony. Her affianced is
Air. H. Langwill, from Newcastle way.
Last year’s “Revel,” which was the out-
standing event of Music Week, had one
blemish, but that nearly proved a night-long
eclipse. It was the delay in carrying out
the pageant which cut out nearly all the
dancing hours. This year the organisers,
Emily Alarks and Roland Foster, are guard-
ing against a similar happening by appoint-
ing a battalion of pageant marshals under
Mr. R. R. Turner, of Bjelke-Petersen’s, to
ensure smooth and rapid organisation.
Oswald Anderson will officiate at the “Mike,”
and a group of hostesses, including Airs.
Arthur Scrivener, Mrs. Reg Nathan, Roland
Foster’s picturesque wife and Miss Elizabeth
Plummer, will receive the guests. The glit-
tering apex of the night’s fun will he tlie
arrival of the Gilbert and Sullivan artists
after the show. David Jones’s ballroom is
the place, and 8.30, Saturday, the time.
If you considered yourself society last
week you sped off to the bridge party in the
David Jones ballroom. This was organised
for funds to help the Big Brothers to keep
on helping their little brother migrants. The
Governor went and played in the president’s
party. Kelso King’s lady held this office,
and looked the part in night-sky-blue lace
served with pearls and a sheaf of pink and
blue hyacinths. Philip Game was among
the players, of whom there were 600, these
same being kept from famishing by sweets,
almonds and cigarettes purveyed by Alix
Lamb, Dr. Clubbe’s daughter Elizabeth, Betty
Ross Gore, Hazel King, in dryad-green georg-
ettes, Sheila Sullivan and Valerie Williams,
in autumn-red chiffons. Among the noble
600 were the professorial Mungo MaeCal-
lums, Airs. Spencer Brunton, Olive Kelso
King, Joan Marks, former Town-Clerk Lay-
ton and his daughter from Victoria, Mrs.
Edgar Rouse.
Stella Pincombe. the attractive subject of
this Hall photograph, knows all about notes;
that’s why she’s treasurer of Music Week.
This on Q week in the year in which Sydney
turns its ear
to sweet
sounds, to the
wide sweep of
music’s wing§
throughout
the ages, en-
tails upon its
p romoters
hard and un-
r c m i t t ing
labor. To
them go the
discords (if
any), while
the rest of the
community en-
joys only the
li a r m o nies.
Still the labor
is one of love
for such en-
thusiasts as
Miss Pi n-
c-ombe, who is
one of the city’s most popular sopranos, and
a star of Roland Foster’s Rainbow Choir.
Dr. Cyril Jenkins, the Welsh musician
who came to Australia to judge the big band
contests at Perth and Sydney, and whose
decision caused a sensation at the Show-
ground some five or six months ago, is a
man of strong opinions. He caused a ripple
of amusement at the Queen Victoria Club
the other day that is likely to swell to a
wave of indignation when British prima
donnas hear it; talking on “style in sing-
ing,” he said that “most of the well-
known English concert-singers had less taste
in dress than the average suburban dress-
maker.” Dr. Jenkins, who is an ex-
soldier, is widely known through Great
Britain as a composer, conductor and ad in-
dicator. A man of deep musical knowledge,
he has a profound distaste for the merely
meretricious. He is white-haired and ascetic-
looking, with a nose so aquiline it is almost
hawk-like. His wife is the last word i n
smartness, and wears her clothes with that
air of alertness that we have long labelled
French.
The walls of the Imperial Service Club
were tapestried with flags and its ceiling bur-
geoned with red and blue balloons when thq
club was quietly at home for its yearly
junketing. Perhaps the vanishing pound-
note decided the members against their
annual colorful splash in one of the big
hotel ballrooms; still there was no sign of
deflation among the merry-makers either in
the lounge downstairs or the danceroom
above. The club’s president. General 11. A.
Goddard, received the guests. Army, Navy
and Air Force uniforms were aired in a
dashing manner by half the males, while
black lace seemed the most popular wear of
the women. Marjorie Morrison, of Mel-
bourne, was among its graceful exponents,
and her frock had long, tight-fitting sleeves.
Una Ryan’s black and silver mandarin coat
struck a lavish note, and black lace showing
a rosy lining was worn by Mrs. Holland,
who, with the Colonel, entertained a party
which included Captain and Mrs. J. R.
Patrick.
One of Sydney’s clever younger artists is
Alison Rehfisch, who with Dora Jarret held
a noteworthy show of oils and water-colors
a few months ago. Design is her chief con-
cern, and she
has a vivid
sense of color
which is at its
best in interi-
ors and still-
lifes. Alison,
who exhibits
with the So-
ciety of Art-
ists, is out
Windsor way
on a sketching
tour seeking
material for a
show of mod-
ern art which
she and four
others are
preparing ■ for
the end of the
year. One of
her canvases
will be a por-
trait of Doris
Fit ton. When not; painting she is acting:
one of her most striking appearances was
made in “And So To Bed.”
Hector MacQuarrie is a hustler. He is
only ten days back in Sydney from his tour
of the world in his baby car Emily 11., and
he has arranged a complete entertainment in
.aid of the housing-of-unemployed fund. A
screening of the traveller’s adventures in
many lands, commencing with the wreck of
the Tahiti, will be given to-night (Wednes-
day) at the Palace Theatre. The introduc-
tion to this will , strike a somewhat different
note, for former Justice Alexander Gordon’s
lady and those pretty young things Anne
Gordon, Margaret Fairfax and Mary Adams
will present the lecturer to his audience in a
little drawing-room scene. Mrs. Wilfred
Fairfax, one of the most consistent workers
for the business girls’ cafeteria in George-
street, has arranged, among other side-lines,
a sale of Mr. MacQuarrie’s book, “We and
the Baby,” and Hector is handling over his
royalties to the fund. Anne Gordon, by the
way, who for so long has been one of Syd-
ney’s leading amateurs, has received an
engagement from J. C. Williamson, and will
make her first professional appearance in
“When Knights Were Bold.”
The Royal Empire Society is unbending.
At last its walls have echoed to the beat of
jazz, and the floor of its lecture hall knows
the slip and slide of dancers’ feet. The in-
novation proved popular, and more youth
fluttered among the premises last week than
is usually met with at the society’s at-homes.
Mr. D. C. Ferguson, chairman of the house
committee, was handshaker-in-chief, and
grouped about him for this act were the
chiffoned and lace-clad ladies who had
arranged the dance. Among them were Mrs.
.0. M. C. Shannon, in flowing white chiffons,
and Miss A. S. Murray, whose black taffetas
were patterned with red blooms. One of
the night’s handsome wearers of black was
Mrs. Roystone Davey, who was among the
bridge-players in the reception-room; Mrs.
Florence Taylor’s frocking was a nocturne
in black and silver; a blue lace frock and
a cherry velvet coat were contrasted by Mrs.
T. Loveridge; Mrs. F. Dairicll sported vel-
lum moire; Mrs. Philip Spender chose the
quietness of beige lace, while Hazel King’s
chiffons were lobelia-blue.
Stuart Doyle, who for four years has been
commodore of the Royal Motor Yacht Club,
has handed over the office to Charles Jacob,
and on Saturday night members crowded
into the club, the awning-enclosed balconies
and the marquees on the lawn to tell him
what a jolly good fellow they thought him.
Mrs. Stuart Doyle took an equal share in
the plaudits, but not in the gold badge of
life membership with which her husband
was invested. However, she took home with
hei' a Syd Long etching of the clubhouse.
Commodore Walker, of the Broken Bay
b i a iw’ I P ac le one of the happiest speeches
of the night, and Stuart and Mrs. Stuart
stood up nobly to the general crescendo of
compliments.
A barrage from Brisbane:—
Lorna Russell, daughter of the E. H. Russell*, of
Dual ran, announces her engagement to Robert W.
Cameron, of Roma.
Before they embarked on their tournament, bowlers
from all the States and Maoriland gathered at the
Anzae memorial. W ith their wives and others thev
made a semi-circle round the Eternal Flame, while
representatives went forward and laid wreaths about
the memorial urn.
Premier Moore and the Mayor welcomed the
bowlers and their wives in the" City Hall, which
blazed with scarlet poinsettia. The music was given
by Ted England, Nancy Muirhead, Bessie Dougall,
Gregory Ivanoff and others, while Harry Borradale
supplied the elocution.
At St. Agatha’s, Clayfield, Alphonse O’Reilly and
\iola King exchanged matrimonial vows. The bride,
who was given away by her father, was in ivory
bridal satin with cut pink tulle veil mounted on
Honiton lace. Isa Hurford and Edna Dunhill ’maided
in white chiffon. The feasting was in the gold room
of the Carlton, and the 'moon will be spent in the
Blue Mountains and Sydney.
Peggy Chauncey is back with tales of Pavlova,
after three years' study of ballet and solo dancing
at the Novikotf school in London. The great artist
often came there to watch the dancers. Peggy, whose
father is a Brisbane doctor, spent some time in the
south of France. She reports that Pavlova’s great
friend Anna Pruzini intends to come to Australia
soon.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin were at the Q.T.C.
races at Ascot, where his Ex. was entertained by
the committee at luncheon, Lady Goodwin and
Dorothy Hawthorn coming out in the afternoon.
Lady Goodwin wore dalilia-red and stone-marten
furs; Dorothy Hawthorn chose brown and oyster-
grey crepe de Chine banded with coral; the Blair
lady was in nut-brown satin with pink hat ; Mrs.
A. H. Whittingham wore black with peach velvet
on her hat, and a silver musquash collar to her black
cloth coat ;' Mrs. J. H. S. Barnes was in saxe blue;
her daughter, Mrs. B. C. Bell, cliosc cherry • Mrs.
Norman Murray favored brown and white; Patricia
Bell wore chocolate and white; Beatrice Hammond
was in blue and white. Mrs. W. J. Healy was
hostess at the committee’s tea to Lady Goodwin.
It was very cold for Toowoomba races at Clifford
Park, but a few spring frocks were in evidence. St.
Vincent’s Hospital committee served tea in the
pavilion, against a setting of poppies, . arum-lilies
and sweet-pea. Mrs. A. Lacaze was in golden
brown; Mrs. Davidson (Adelaide) chose grey tailor-
made ; Mrs. P. J. O’Connor (Southport) was in
tweed with a wine-colored beret, Claire Godsall in
black and Mrs. Keith Jeffreys in brown.
Jessie Mclnnis, who died of blood poisoning in
Dona Hospital, New Guinea, was here only a few
months ago. She had been nine years' with the
Anglican Mission. Her only brother lives at Indoo-
roopilly, Brisbane.
Ernest Mitchell took to wife Dulcie Stendrup in
the Albert-street Methodist kirk. The bride was in
ivory satin with a silver lace Medici collar and veil
of ’broidered net worn over a tulle train. The
’maids were Ethel Raymond and Lorna Stendrup,
flocked in Wedgwood-blue with yokes of gold lace.
Blue and gold decked the Westminster private hotel
for the feasting.
Tune-in to the Speck:—
The Alliance Frangaise postponed the reception at
which the president, Mrs. Henry Dobson, was to
have been presented with the society’s decoration, in
consequence of news from England of the death of
Mrs. Dobson’s son-in-law, Mr. Hugh Tyser. Mrs.
Tyser had taken her husband abroad for special
treatment.
Inter-’Varsity basket-ball players from Melbourne,
Sydney and Adelaide were given a great time on
their visit. Mrs. Alan Burn, president of the Tas.
Uni. Association, welcomed them at a preliminary
function at the Chaucer tea-rooms, and theatre
parties, a trip to New Norfolk and a dance at the
University kept the visitors fully engaged. The
matches concluded with a win, in rain and mud.
for the Melbourne team.
There was a dance at' the R.S.S.I.L.A. rooms in
honor of the young people • who worked so solidly
in the recent Popular Girl contest. Presentations
were numerous, Col. Blacklow handing over the
various tributes. Biddy Wishart Smith, winner of
the contest, was almost submerged under flowers and
favors. The 26th Battalion, which she represented,
gave her a cut-glass decanter and a gold vanity-
case. The other competitors, Molly Eady, Kathleen
Symonds, Mary Watchorn, Alison Gray, Betty Sale
and Mary- Caulfield, bore off framed addresses and
other mementoes.
The A.I.F. Ball in the Albert Hall, Launceston,
was the big splash of the week. Dancers gyrated
under flags of all sorts and colors, and the stage
was furnished as a lounge in red-lacquered wicker,
backed by masses of greenery. Mrs. G. Youl, Misses
B. Compton and Z. von Bibra were responsible for
the supper-table decorations of peach blossom, blue
iris and bulbs. The Lieut.-Gov. journeyed north to
be present at the show, and official guests included
Mayor and Mayoress Boatwright, the State Com-
mandant and Mrs. Cox Taylor, Brig.-Gen. W. and
Mrs. Martin, Lt.-Col. and Mrs. Symmonds, Lt.-Col.
and Mrs. Henry Foster (Merton), the Premier and
Mrs. McPhee, Hon. C. E. and Mrs. James, Col. A.
C. and Mrs. Blacklow, Mr. and Mrs. H. P. Ritchie,
and a big roll-up of local folk, civil and military.
Funds went to the Anzac Hostel and to distressed
soldiers. Three debs, made their bows, Miss Bryant,
Miss Joan Alexander and Miss Joan Ritchie.


li
Sifter every
Miles
...the lubricating value of the crankcase oil is seriously
affected by road dust, grit, metal particles, and
dilution. Failure to drain and refill regularly spells
trouble, scored cylinders, avoidable wear, rapid
depreciation, reduced engine efficiency.
Commonsense dictates that proper protection is true
economy. The big investment in your car warrants
every possible insurance against costly trouble . . <,
therefore —
drain and refill
II! I
\
E 7
II ■ -4*
&
=r
Ca
V,
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
1 Ml 5


Missing Friemls.
("'•ASTLEMAN, GEORGE, formerly of
Rathscar West, Avoca, Victoria. Will
the above or anyone knowing his present
whereabouts communicate with HERRING
AND BATHURST, Solicitors, Maryborough,
Victoria.
Amusements.
gTDN EY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tain
HER MAJESTY’S: TRIAL, BY JURY
AND
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
CRITERION: CAPE FORLORN
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
THE DUCHESS OF DANTZIO
COMEDY THEATRE:
A WARM CORNER.
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE & REVUE
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
*7777;.
A
Shampoo Regularly
with
Cuttcura Soap
Precede by applications of
Cuticura Ointment
This treatment will keep the
scalp in a healthy condition and
the hair thick and lustrous.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address: R.Towns
& Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buck[?]
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
On Saturday occupants of the members’
enclosure at Moonee Valley were able to
appreciate to the full the luxury of a cen-
trally heated stand, with a tote next door,
for the weather was vile. Just about lunch-
time the clouds opened and poured more
rain upon an earth already saturated ; after-
wards there was an alternation of sunshine
and showers. Lieut.-Governor Irvine was
chief guest at the official luncheon, others
being Premier Hogan, accompanied by Mrs.
Hogan, in black-and-white ensemble; E. T.
Marillier, secretary of the Westralian Turf
Club, who brought his wife and came with
the A. V. Kewneys; Mayor and Mayoress
Fenton, of Essendon; Mr. and Mrs. R. M.
Cuthbertson; the W. Rogers Thomsons, she
smart in brown and white check frock with
coat and felt hat of a darker tint of brown ;
Mrs. Merson Cooper, who was with Mrs. J.
Fell; and Mrs. Dawborn. Amongst those
who watched the racing were also Mrs. J.
Wilks, a visitor from Tassie; the Percy
Blackbourns, she in smartly-tailored black;
Mrs. J. J. Daly and Mr. and rurs. James
Purves. Gorgeous daffodils from chairman
Alister Clark’s garden bordered the front
of the committee’s box in the centre of the
grandstand.
High-lights of the Williamstown Racing
Club’s postponed meeting were the opening
of the totalisator and the first appearance
this season of Phar Lap, who won the Under-
Avood Stakes. J. J. Liston, the new chair-
man of the W.R.C., brought Mrs. Liston, in
ensemble of currant red with matching mil-
linery. Mrs. J. F. Nagle, wife of the secre-
tary, was there in navy blue with a black
felt hat. Dr. and Mrs. Barry Thomson, she
in grey-and-black tweed and black velvet
hat; Airs. Phil Lock and Kathleen Rogers
Thomson were others who braved the ice-cold
northerly gale.
To further the candidature of Robert
Ivnox, chairman of auxiliaries of Alfred Hos-
pital, in the institution’s King competition
there was a hop at the Rex engineered by
the Toorak auxiliary, of which Mrs. Knox
is president. The dance was attended by
many girls with hair in plaits, and school-
boys enjoying the first night of the vacation.
Mrs. Knox danced in black lace and tulle.
Mrs. R. H. Wilkins came in bronze gold
lace with a sable cape. Eunice Umphelby,
in glistening coral pink, and Mrs. E. L. Cres-
well were the secretaries. Others present
Avere Mrs. Fred Krcrouse, in black lace;
Hylda MoCardel, wearing embroidered white
Japanese crepe; Joan Trenchard; Mary Guy
Smith, in white satin ; Audrey Poolman, in
blue taffeta with a floral design of briar
roses; Deidre Grantham, in white satin;
Marjorie Clarke; Mrs. Beasley, and Mrs.
Gatehouse. Betty Fairbairn, in lily-green
crepe, and Beverley Jackson, in white georg-
ette, dispensed cocktails. Beryl and Maisie
Cowper performed a tap dance.
Another dance on Mr. Knox’s behalf took
place on board the P. and O. liner Ballarat.
Six hundred and fifty couples danced upon
the upper and lower decks, and bridge-
players found sanctuary in the lounge. Nep-
tune held court on the pier, and pupils of
May Downes appeared in picturesque bal
lets. Mavis Wardle and Nancy Cooper were
secretaries. F. D. Michaelis, chairman of
the hospital board, and Mrs. Michaelis, Lt.-
Colonel Eller, superintendent, and Mrs.
Eller, who wore black lace, also Mrs. Mur-
doch Evans, matron of the Alfred, were
guests.
The eight debs, at the recent ball of the
M.L.C. Old Collegians’ Club hostessed a hop
at Ormond Hall, at which office-bearers of
the club were guests of honor. The R.V.1.8.
benefited. Wristlet posies distinguished the
committee, who all wore white gowns, Phyl-
lis Beck and Shirley Marriott being the lion,
secs.
The colors of the Commonwealth Oil
Refinery, green and gold, decked the Embassy
for the staff dance. Among the organisers
were Miss McKenna, who danced in white
satin ; Miss T. Beveridge, whose black lace
gown was topped by a white satin coatee;
and Miss C. Condon, in black.
An interlude at the Insurance Institute’s
Ball was the presentation of sports trophies,
handed over by Randall Fincham, president
of the institute. Among the dancers were
Mrs. Fincham, in golden-brown lace; Mr.
and Mrs. A. V. Kewney and Mr. and Mrs.
R. H. Metcalfe.
Mayor and Mayoress Jacka, of St. Kilda,
were chief engineers of a ball at the local
Town Hall to help the Alfred Hospital. The
Mayoress was hhnded a bouquet by the bon.
sec. of the St. Kilda auxiliary, Mrs. Alfred
Couchman, who, like Mrs. Jacka, was attired
in filmy black lace. Mrs. A. Harris, who
was assistant secretary, wore a draped gown
of black satin. The chairman of the hos-
pital, F. D. Michaelis, was there with Mrs.
Michaelis, who was in flared raiment of deep
red georgette.
Students of Xavier College danced at St.
Kilda Plaza, and their partners produced as
pretty a collection of frocks as has been seen
at any ball this season. Mrs. Ray Buxton,
whose son is captain of the school, was pre-
sident of the women’s committee. Proceeds
went to the memorial chapel. Mrs. Buxton
received a sheaf of flowers that matched her
flounced georgette gown of deep cyclamen
tint. Mollie Warden, wearing lime-green
georgette, and Catli Cooke, in emeka'd-areen
chiffon, were secretaries, and Mrs. P.
McCauley, who wore with her black gown
a striking coat embroidered in a Chinese
design of birds and gold tracery, held the
purse. Mrs. J. Dynon’s frock was chiffon
of bottle-green tone. Mrs. M. J. Canny
was in geranium-red chiffon. Mrs. C. N.
Finn brought her two small daughters, Paddy,
in blue, and Joan in pink organdie. Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, Avho wore dove grey, came Avith
her son Jack and daughter Jill, the last-
named looking almost grown-up in frills of
apple-green chiffon. Wilma Murphy chose
pink taffeta with a cape of powder-blue
velvet. Peggy Mollard’s plaits dangled over
a frock that was froth of white tulle frills,
the waist-line marked by a belt of white
gardenias. Elsie Smith was charming in
leaf-green tulle that was all tiny ruffles and
frills. Betty Tutton wore oyster satin with
elbow sleeves bordered with brown tur.
Dorothy Buxton was one of several wearers
of apple-greea georgette. Amy Lucini chose
black, cheered by pink blossoms in her hair.
The needs of Queen Victoria Hospital pro-
vided good reason for a hop at the Embassy,
engineered by Marjorie Brittingham and other
Caulfield girls. Mrs. Brittingham was in
convolvulus-blue chiffon. Dulcie Roberts,
the hon. sec., danced in almond green, and
Rita Yorstou, hon. treasurer, chose currant-
rod chiffon velvet. Mayor and Mayoress
Ritchie, of Caulfield; Lieut.-Colonel White,
M.H.R., and Mrs. White, and Mrs. W. M.
Robins, president of the Q.V.11. auxiliaries,
were there. Cabaret items were performed
by the dancing pupils of Alice Urcn.
The C. of E. Grammar School chapel saw
the knot-tying of Audrey, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. Lockwood, of Geelong, and
Thomas, only sou of knight Thomus Lyle
and his lady, of Toorak. The bridal array
was white satin that floated into a flared
train, and the veil was of Limerick. The
’maids, the bridegroom’s sister Clare and
Win Temple-Smith, sported frocks of pink
georgette with blue sashes and blue straw
hats.
At Launceston Beverly, youngest daughter
of the W. Gunning Bairds, of that town,
was linked to Harry, eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. H. J. Barwick, of Leicestershire (Eng.),
both young people on Melbourne "Age.”
The bride wore parchment-tinted lace with
tulle additions, and two ’maids sported frocks
of primrose-hued organdie and wreaths of
flowers. Before the wedding the bride-elect
was entertained at morning tea by women
journalists at the Lyceum Club. Other guests
of honor were Patricia Allan, of the “Argus”
staff (a daughter of “Vesta.” of that paper),
and Joan Finlayson, of the "Leader,” both
due to change their names in the near future.
The wedding of Nancy, youngest daughter
of Mrs. Stephens, of Toorak, and of the late
Temple Stephens, to Neil McLeod limes,
of Lynn Regis (Eng.), at the Toorak kirk,
was an all-pink affair. The bride wore pale-
pink lace and tulle, with a very voluminous
skirt, old Limerick-lace forming veil and
train. She carried a sheaf of fruit blossom
and a floral horseshoe dangled from her arm.
Jean Rhodes, from Ballan, bridesmaided, in
pink tulle of deeper tint, and her straw hat
was matching. On their return from the
honeymoon the couple will set off in October
to housekeep in Khartoum.
A bridge party engineered by Mrs. Harry
Sargood on behalf of the Y Emma was held
at Woonda. Toorak. Mrs. Rutter Clarke,
all in black, supported Mrs. Sargood, whose
black gown was cheered with bright blue.
Mrs. George Russell, Mrs. Askin Foster,
Mrs. W. E. Sargood and Mrs. W. Shaw
were among those who gathered about the
tables in the drawing-room, which was decked
with spring blossoms.
Harold llarvie, pictured here by Lafay-
ette, is the man who gives the professional
touch to the performances of the Cairns
Memorial Dram. Soc. It’s a good many
years since he
made a living
on the stage
—he is now
managing Hin-
ton’s coach-
works at
Prabran but
he was in the
Ward - Lyons
co. and the
Firm, and
with Selwyn
Brown ran a
show at Colac.
He is the
society’s pro-
ducer, fills a
r 6 1 e when
needed, and
exercises his
talents as a
scenic artist
and make-up
expert.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Mortill hail a Russian
party at their home, Hawthorn, when the
guests were chiefly those who had assisted
the hostess with her stall at the International
(Jala. Mark Hambourg and his wife caine
on after a reception given them by the Mel-
bourne Music Club. Mrs. Hambourg’s black-
and-white figured chiffon had a touch of pink
beue.ath. Madame Zorina, the singer, was
also present, wearing black, with red roses
at the waistline. Mrs. Mortill’s white chif-
fon gown was sprinkled with diamente. The
Melbourne string quartette supplied music,
supplemented by national songs sung by
Madame Ileseleva.
A matinee entertainment at the Athenspum
in aid of St. Anthony’s Home at Ivew drew
a crowded house. Frank Talbot gave the
use of the theatre, and Mrs. Merson Cooper
was the president of the organising com-
mittee, with Mrs. D. P. Mackey and Mrs.
T. J. Power as hon. secs, and Mrs. Bernard
Nolan and Marie de Bavay in charge of the
finances. Mrs. T. J. Ryan, Mrs. J. Dwyer
and others sold flowers in the vestibule.
Singers Herbert Browne, Kathleen Goodall,
Marion Daniels. James Foran and Bernard
McCaffrey, ventriloquist Arthur Prince and
Frank Bradley, teller of funny stories, figured
on the programme, together with the
Athenamm vocal trio, the ballet from the
“Duchess of Dantzic” and the Eight Cabaret
Girls. Turns were given also by Winifred
Morrison and Joyce Iveecli, Sheila Shannon
and Margaret Nicholson and Charles Scrim-
shaw.
In “A Warm Corner,” which onened at
the Comedy on Saturday night, Ethel Morri-
son, in the role of a millionaire’s wife, wears
a perfect blaze of jewellery on a silvery
frock hugely patterned in cream and rose
tints, with a train that takes many turn-
ings. Coral Brown wears an cvcnin°' gown
of shot emerald and pale gold taffeta, and
another of tomato-colored satin with splashes
of black. Her cream flannel yachting suit
is the last word in the divided-skirt mode..
She also wears a frock Gist lias a nrimrose
colored crepe-db-Chine blouse top, allied to a
striped blue and yellow silk skirt arranged
in an apron fashion. Alathea Siddons is a
striking figure in a floral chiffon frock, scat-
tered with red and white daisies, with a dash
of black; and Mary MacGregor looks her best
in a neat brown suit ami buttercup-hued
jumper.
Mary, elder daughter of Mrs. W. G. Pat-
terson and of the late Col. Patterson, who
for the last two years has been doing re-
search work at the Lister Institute in Lon-
don, has graduated as a master of science
of London Uni. She went there on a scholar-
ship awarded b'y the Returned Sailors and
Soldiers' Association. She is due to return
to Melbourne in the near future.
Mrs. Russell Grimwade, wearing a gown
of browui velvet, poured tea at her Toorak
home to wash bride-elect Betty Mac Mullen
the best of luck.
Mrs. C. E. G. Beveridge and Mrs. Lionel
Grimwade engineered a welcome tea-party
at Lochfoyne, Toorak, in honor of Mrs. ,T.
L. Coplin Vigne, a former student of Toorak
College, and daughter of Admiral Creswell.
Mrs. Vigne, who now resides in S’Africa, is
here on a holiday.
Until recently secretary of the Junior
Auxiliary of the District Nursing Society,
Lynette Hen-
derson, pic-
tured here b.\
Dicki n s on
Monteath, has
found another
avenue of use-
fulness as
assistant
almoner at the
Melbourne
Hospital. She
is one of the
hospital’s first
graduates in
almonry, a
p h i lantliropy
which links
the hospital
with the
patient’s home,
and provides
for the needy
sick during
the period of
convalescence. Miss Henderson is a daugh-
ter of Mrs. G. G. Henderson, a member of
the central council of the Benevolent
Society and president of the District Nursing
Society.
Mrs. Hugh Hamilton, of Toorak, was wel-
comed home after a visit to the U.S.A. at a
bridge party at Lochfoyne, hostessed by Mrs.
lan Hamilton.
Mrs. W. M. Buntine invited many guests
to tea at the Lyceum Club to say aw revoir
to Mrs. M. Arnold Buntine, who leaves this
week for Perth, where her husband Dr.
Buntine. W’ill take charge of Hale School.
Mary Miller Guthrie, who passed oyer last
week, was a great worker for the Children’s
Hospital and the Talbot Colony for Epilep-
tics. She joined the committee of the hos-
pital 36 years ago, and was hon. sec. and
later bon. treasurer. About nine years ago
she founded the Children’s Hospital auxili-
ary, which has done fine work.
According to the annual report of the
C.W.A., there are now 1)5 branches in this
State, with a membership of 4500 and assets
worth £3185. During the year 500 sick
women were provided with medical treat-
ment. Somers House, a holiday home at the
seaside, has housed 300 mothers and kiddies
since it opened in 1929.
Marjorie and Gwen Prockter have returned
after an 18-months’ sojourn in Europe. Mar-
jorie continued her violin studies with Carl
Flesch in Berlin, and Gwen went to Paris
to learn more about the ’cello from M.
Alexanian, at L'Ecole Normale.
St. Vincent’s Hospital’s “Little Green
Shop” showed a profit of £350 during the
last 12 months, which will help to endow a
bed. In the three years of its existence the
shop has made £lOlO, entirely endowing one
bed and partly a second, and providing £127
for the radium fund.
A place for Westralia:—
The most exciting thing at the Belmont Park
races was Mrs. Ben Prevost’s bowler bat—with such
features one can safely air the most unusual fashions.
The course was a picture of verdant green, ducks
glided over the winding Swan and a little lake
within a stone’s-throw of the grandstand reflected
a warm blue sky. In the Hunters’ Race amateur
George Gwynne had a popular win on The Pied
Piper. His mother and sister got their thrill in
pedigreed fur necklets. Valmai Ross, in a tailored
suit and stone-marten choker, accompanied her pretty
black-clad sister-in-law. Mrs. Jack Durack was all
in blue; Guida Weir’s canary turnout was unexpected
for an auburn head ; Daphne and Betty de Bernales
wore tweeds and browns and bottle-green berets
respectively ; Mollie Atkins chose brown; Shiela Hayes
backed her hunter in blue and white flecks; Alice
Mallon’s black beret was pin-spotted with white;
Phyllis Hadley sported a nicely-cut spring garment
of blue flat crfipe; and Mrs. Ambrose wore her
favorite multi-striped, knee-length scarf.
Myria Woodhouse, who belongs to a family of
aquatic stars, took a recent plunge in a different
kind of sea. Her partner in the great adventure was
Geoffrey Larrard, and Christ Church, Claremont,
echoed the marriage vows. The bridal satins drifted
into a train and tight-fitting sleeves were a feature
of the corsage. Cream roses wafted their perfume
in the wraith of tulle veil. Bride’s sister Helen
and Freda Lunt, carrying sheafs of gladioli, attended
in flame-shaded moire and wide black hats.
The Ormonde brought back the Hon. Mrs. Robert
Lindsay on her annual migration to Yanchep and
Jurien Bay. For several years she and her daughter
have pursued the summer in both hemispheres.
Dora Gilbertson was an outward-bound passenger
on the Oronsay. The Big Smoke is her Mecca, and
the art of speaking will fill most of her time abroad.
Among her many farewells was a party in National
House given by Mrs. Walter Mcßostie’s Dramatic
Society.
Goggle-eyed goldfish with a ruby glow in their
paper torsos swayed among palms and Chinese
lanterns in the lounge of the Claremont Yacht
Club’s frolic. Greenery and bunting enclosed some
extra dancing space on the verandah. Commodore
Reg Long and his blue-clad wife gave a welcoming
handclasp. Mrs. Levinson trailed sea-blue satins;
Mrs. Tregonning’s nutmeg creation was tinted with
shades of falling leaves; green and blue vied for
predominance in Mrs. Burridge’s georgettes; 'Mrs. J.
L. B. Weir’s garment radiated dignity and gold
’broideries; Mrs. J. C. Murray’s black sparkled with
rhinestones; Peggy Sharkey was a love-in-the-mist
flutter; pink camellias blossomed upon Edna
Clement’s blue laces; tangerine was Marjorie CusacK’s
choice.
The good-looking F. S. Heron couple embarked
on the Minderoo for their home in Singapore. Small
daughter and Mrs. Heron’s niece, Mary Wittenoom,
accompanied them.
Elsie Milne, -of the Titian hair, has announced
her engagement to John David Stone.
Galsworthy’s “Loyalties” was the Repertory Club’s
best-dressed effort of the year. In the large cast
Norman Wingrove’s portrayal of the young Jew, De
Levis, stood out as excellent. Lennox Cleland had
a part to suit him as the host of Meldon Court.
Cecilia Brennan,. Dorothy Powell and Maud Dingwall
looked nice and acted pleasantly.
South Aus. sums up
At Victoria Park races his Ex. was present, and
the Mayor dropped in for luncheon. The chairman
(Janies Hall) and Miss Gwen Hall officiated at the
club tea. Fur coats increase in number and squirrels
can be counted by the dozen.
Miss Ethel Morrison gave a delightful little tea
at the Queen Adelaide Club. Wearing a modish navy
velour coat with opossum collar and a close-fitting
navy hat, the hostess entertained her friends in the
drawing-room, which was decorated with white
hyacinths and pink sweet-peas. Mrs. T. R. Kearft,
of Eden Park, whose guest Miss Morrison has been
during her Adelaide season, was present with two
Sydney friends, Mrs. Hennessey and Miss M. Saelier.
Among other guests were Mrs. Pirie Bush, and
several Adelaide women who entertained the popular
actress during her stay here.
Mrs. James Roche, of Melbourne, is on a visit to
her daughter, Mrs. Norman Myer, of Brookside-
avenue, Toorak.
Mrs. F. Vi lleneuve-Smith gave a party at the
Plaza as a farewell to Klay Kaines and Hugh Docker,
who are leaving for London. About 20 of the
younger set were present.
Myer’s Charity Ball, held at the Palais Royal on
Tuesday night, drew a crowd that must have brought
in a welcome contribution to the Lord Mayor’s Relief
Fund. Mrs. Norman Myer was a graceful figure in
pink crfipe satin with diamente shoulder-straps.
The Eastern Bazaar, which had a three-day and
-night run at the Exhibition Building, ir.
aid of nine charities, was opened by Lady Hore-
Ruthven. Mrs. E. Angas Johnson has been prime
mover in the scheme, and in spite of the hard times
good business was done. The elderly women who
donned harem and Jap dress in the crude light o£
day are especially worthy of a halo.
The Victoria League combined business with
pleasure when it ran its annual meeting on into
a welcome to the president, Lady Hore-Ruthven,
with tea for all. There were gorgeous flowers every-
where.


é
K e ,ep
a clear
MINDandBODY
ê
Eh
&
A
.JuO2L
YOU cannot be
perfectly “fit” if
your system is
being slowly poisoned
by toxins arising from imperfect or
incomplete elimination. Such con-
ditions cause bodily fatigue and mental
weariness, and reduce efficiency.
A clean, properly functioning diges-
tive system is an essential Co health.
Keep your intestinal tract clean and
healthy with the aid of Figsen, the
natural, safe laxative. Does not purge
or gripe, does not create habits, has
no unpleasant after effects and is just
as good for children as their elders.
Figsen is pleasant and easy to take,
and you can rely on it.
FIGSEN
Nyat
There
Family
•very
ment
Sold
'A
m
m
y
mm
m
w.
m
m
litli
s
e as a cat
You haven’t experienced the full joy of motoring unless your car
feels like a live thing under your control. To learn this thrill, fill
up with C.O.R. For C.O.R. British is a triumph of British Industry—
undoubtedly the finest motor Spirit the world has produced.
c
C-.T./1/S6/31
BRI TI $ H MOTQK SP IR IT~ N 9.1.
k ?»- --> ■ • ■ •
L. oun 11 y Districts of New South Wales:
. n 7 PITT STREET,
DALGETY & C O
. LTD.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Anyhow “Son of India,” at Sydney State,
isn'j in kinemacolor. Even so, its sclf-
eonseious loveliness and sentimentalism are
disconcerting—something like having a tin
of warm treacle poured slowly down the
back. Ramon Novarro resembles a Hindu
chieftain every bit as much as Valentino
used to resemble an Arab sheik; Madge
Evans is an exceptionally pretty supporter
of miscegenation, and Conrad Nagel, O.
Aubrey Smith and Marjorie Kambeau arc
on view in poor parts. Love in material-
istic Bombay, love during a tiger-hunt, love
in the be-jewelled palace of the infatuated
Novarro —in short, love everywhere. Such
is the theme. And then —renunciation. It
is mushy and unreal enough to make thou-
sands of admirers. Look at “Viennese
Nights,” which has been running in the
one Sydney theatre for four months !
¥ * *
“The Sport of Kings,” at Sydney Capitol,
shows, amongst other things, the folly of
introducing stage conventions to the films.
Leslie Henson, as a present-day wowser,
wears the clothes of a quarter of a century
ago and a voluminous wig. Tradition would
make him acceptable behind the footlights,
like a property tree; but he couldn’t look
more out of place in the street than he does
on the screen. All the dialogue of lan
Hay’s rather old-fashioned comedy seems
to have been left in— i.e., about 50 per
cent, too much. The two young men who
pervert Henson to gambling and drink are
inis-cast, inasmuch as they are sprightly
without being funny, and the heroine has
the hostile gentility of the principal of a
girls’ school. On the other hand, the ex-
bookmaking butler is a gem, and the small-
part players are good. The whole show has
the well-bred innocuousness of an issue of
London “Punch.”
Paramount’s “City Streets” is a different
proposition. All the principals are dan-
gerous criminals. There are no laughs. The
characters have no time for healthy fun;
they are too busy trying to keep alive.' Sylvia
Sidney, whose father is a dapper, smiling
assassin on the retinue of Paul Lukas (“the
big feller”), wants Gary Cooper, whom she
loves, to turn racketeer. He decides to
while she is in gaol, and his skill as a
revolver-shot gets him a job as gunman on
one of Lukas’s beer-lorries. Then she comes
out; Lukas turns an eye of lust on her. and
tlie conflict between villainy and relative
virtue is on. Gangster talkies achieve sus-
pense by a convention which, so far as the
writer knows, doesn’t exist outside the
U.S.A.: a variant on the mediaeval law of
Sanctuary. An American malefactor sur-
rounded by desperadoes is liable to be tilled
with lead at, say, 4 p.m. if he isn’t quick on
the draw, His enemies having been beaten to
it, they are immobilised, by the rules, for the
rest of the scene, with the result that, from
4.1 p.m, onwards, he can pocket his rod,
turn his back and insult them over his
shoulder in safety. He has his lingers
crossed, so to speak. Gary Cooper does this
in “City Streets” with a finish acquired by
long practice in cowboy film bars. The pic-
ture is realistic up to the point where Lukas
is found dead in a locked room with Miss
Sidney and her revolver. Shortly before the
gang had decided to exterminate Cooper for
punching members in night clubs and for lese
ma juste to the big feller, lie can't exter-
minate the gang, having reformed. The
dramatist has thus presented himself with
an insoluble problem, and he gives it up.
Cooper gets the girl away from the scene
of the murder under the pretence that he is
taking her “for a ride,” and they have the
pleasure of watching the humiliated ruffians
in the back seat start on their long walk
home. However, she couldn’t hope to escape
arrest even in America, and his life would
be a bad risk even in a law-abiding country.
An unhappy ending for both. The picture is
worth seeing for its beautiful and ingenious
photography, and the brilliant acting of Miss
Sidney. There is a gaol scene in which she
expresses the longing of the female for the
beloved male with scandalous insight and
thoroughness.
* * *
The morbid are also generously catered for
in “The Costello Case’’ (Fox) at Sydney
Regent. It doesn’t belong to the school of
detective story in which suspicion is cast on
each in turn; in fact, nobody is suspected
till the climax. The methods of Tom Moore,
as Patrolman Mahoney, in brihging this about
constitute the play, which is eloquent of the
disrespect for life that prevails in the America
of the movies. One episode shows gunmen
so bored with their trade that they are
absorbed in a cross-word puzzle as their
victim is about to be bumped off. Moore
murders the guilty party, instead of arrest-
ing him, on the ground that he would “spread
too much money about” if tried. The cast
again exemplifies Hollywood’s colossal array
of acting talent. Most of the players, bar-
ring Moore, are unknown, but they are all
artists.
Sydney Lyceum has two British talkies,
both above the average. “The Woman
Between,” a version of “Conflict,” suffers
from having had most of its points cut out
by our censor. Unfortunately, few of the
lines of the wordy ex-Cantab and Socialist,
Tom Smith (Owen Nares), have been cut.
He has the readiness to oblige on the least
pretext with the story of the life, or any part
of it, of a boresome type of drunk. A humor-
less nuisance. Adrienne Allen (Lady
Pamela Bellingdon) falls in love with him
when he calls on her father, and, after cer-
tain complications to which all the males
react like punctilious English gentlemen, the
fade-out arrives with the socialist and the
lady’s former lover —who is his political oppo-
nent —facing the electors together in amity,
while the National Anthem resounds, and
Socialists and Tories alike spring to atten-
tion. If any of the performers stand out
it is Australia’s old friend Charles H'allard,
as Lord Bellingdon, but the parts more or
less play themselves. The torrential spate of
talk is compensated for by the perfect arti-
culation of the talkers. If only Owen Nares
could teach American actors to speak, and
if only Norma Shearer could teach English
actresses to dress!
In “The Speckled Band,” as in previous
Sherlock Holmes talkies, the illusion-killing
practice is followed of making some of the
characters moderns and others Victorians.
The Baker-street rooms suggest an American
millionaire’s office, and their tenant (Ray-
mond Massey) looks like a young man of
to-day. The sinister Dr. Rylott is a product
of the ’nineties from frock-coat to dog-cart.
But the play is exciting and credible, and
splendidly acted and photographed. It begins
with the inquest at Dr. Rylott’s, speeds on
to Holmes’s rooms and back to the doctor’s,
where the terrified ward is expecting the
fate of her sister. Then come the arrival of
Holmes and Watson, the attempted murder
and the death of Rylott. Little is seen of
Holmes and Watson, which is all to the good
in the circumstances. Rylott, played with
great power and imagination by rryn Hard-
ing, is the chief character. Angela Bad-
deley adds to the atmosphere of horror by
her emotional work as the imperilled heroine.


This is not a Prospectus
OIL WILL SAVE AUSTRALIA!
HERE IS, AN OPPORTUNITY FOR AUSTRALIANS IN EVERY STATION
OF LIFE TO PARTICIPATE.
A NEW INDUSTRY.
is about to be established in Australia by the scientific exploita-
tion of her known indigenous oil deposits.
AUSTRALIA CONTAINS OIL—THIS IS NOW AN
UNDISPUTED FACT—SCIENCE PROVIDES THE
PROOF.
KNIGHT’S DOME (MT. GAMBIER) LTD.,
a Company formed to locate by the most modern scientific
technique, Geological structures appropriate to the Genesis—
Accumulation and Retention of Petroleum.
HAS SUCCEEDED!
Such a structure has been proved in—
Mt. Gambier, South Australia!
The next step is to sink a test well for oil —the success of
which will have the IMMEDIATE EFFECT 'of creating—
1. —A New Primary Industry.
2. —Many New Secondary Industries.
3. —Employment for Thousands of Aus-
tralians.
4. —The Restoration of the Commonwealth
to Her Normal State of Economic Inde-
pendence Among the Nations.
For many months work has been proceeding towards this
end by Oil Search Limited—QUIETLY—PATIENTLY—CONFI-
DENTLY. Close co-operation has been maintained during the
search with the technical experts of the Federal Government and
the Government of the State concerned. Frank approbation of
method and endorsement of results have been freely expressed by
Ministers of the Crown through their Official Scientific Advisers.
Everything that Science could suggest prior to boring for
production has been faithfully performed, and NOW THE
AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC ARE INVITED TO PARTICIPATE.
ONLY THE DRILL CAN TELL.
The risks involved in this activity are legitimate ones.
Adequate preliminary investigation has revealed a competent
structure in the formation capable of proving petroliferous.
Success cannot be guaranteed, but the necessary preliminary steps
pointing to the possibility. of success, have been taken as com-
pletely as is possible in the circumstances. Extravagant promises
in oil ventures are self-condemnatory—reasonable optimism, is
commendable. Such a structure, in such a' geological formation,
must be tested by drilling, and the Directors consider that the
Company is justified in carrying out this work as a legitimate
venture, with reasonable hopes of-satisfactory-results-
KNIGHT’S DOME
(Mt. Gambier) LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia under Companies Act 1892).
CAPITAL £200,000
Divided into 800,000 Shares of 5/- Each.
Issue of 480,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each, offered
for Public Subscription, payable as follows: —
6d. per Share on Application;
3/- per Share on Allotment;
The balance in calls of not more than 6d. per Share at
intervals of not less than one month.
OBJECTS.
The objects for which this Company has been formed are
to acquire from Oil Search Ltd. an area of 640 acres, comprising'
the Burnda Anticline, or Knight’s Dome, so named after its
discoverer, adjacent to the town of Mount Gambier, in South
Australia, and to drill thereon for the production of petroleum.
On this area there is a definite structure conforming to the
geological conditions necessary for the existence of a commercial
oilfield.
SCIENTIFIC PROCEDURE.
Knight’s Dome (Mount Gambier) Ltd. has been promoted
by Oil Search Limited, an organisation whose activities are
devoted to the location of oil-bearing horizons by strict adherence •
to the most modern form of scientifically approved technique.
This is a guarantee that all requisite preliminaries have been
faithfully carried out before the drill is despatched towards its
objective.
During the investigations the technical experts of Oil Search
Ltd. maintained close contact with Federal and State Scientific
Authorities, and on completion all geological data obtained was.
submitted to Dr. L. Keith Ward, Director of Mines for South
Australia, and Dr. W. G. Woolnough, Federal Government
Geologist. These authorities made independent personal visits
to' Burnda Anticline, and their official reports not only confirm
the claims of the promoting company, but frank approbation is
expressed of its ideals and methods.
Following are extracts from reports received from the Depart-
ment of Home Affairs, Canberra, regarding Oil Search, Ltd.,
and its methods: —•
“Oil Search Ltd. continues to work on lines
which might well serve as a model to all companies
engaged in similar operations. The high ideals
and technical excellence of operations by this
Company are worthy of every consideration by the
various Government Departments concerned.”
The Federal Government Geologist, Dr. W. G. Woolnough,
states in regard to this anticline, inter alia :—
“I desire to add my support to the conclusion that
testing of the structure by the sinking of a. test
well is completely justified. Such a structure would
certainly be drilled if it were encountered in the
United States.”
The opportunity of participating in the drilling of this,
structure is now available.
POINTS OF THIS ISSUE.
1. —A comprehensive geological survey Ims been completed.
2. —The structure (the containing rocks) to be drilled is
proved by the highest authorities. '
3. —This is the first time such a structure has been found
in Australia in Tertiary beds which have proved elsewhere by
drilling to be petroliferous.
4. —The Federal Government Geologist states the structure
would be drilled at once if it were encountered in the United
States of America.
5. —Drilling can proceed forthwith.
6. The drilling plant available is more than adequate to
do the work.
7. —The plant is a powerful combination rig with a most
modern and up-to-date coring outfit.
8. A qualified Canadian expert in oilfield production will
be drilling superintendent.
9. —Ample water and timber are available.
10.- —The bore site is adjacent to the railway, which runs
direct to the seaport, only 44 miles distant.
IX. —The first bore will be cored-from the grass roots. This
prevents any Shale containing oil being missed, and supplies data
for future operations.
12. —All cores will be examined and reported upon by Aus-
tralian Government experts.
13. —All scientific preliminaries are completed.
14. —There is ample room on the area, for a number of
producing wells.
Applications for shares can be received only in terms of the
company’s printed prospectus. Below is a form of application
which may be used. Fill in this form, and posh it with a sum
equal to sixpence per share for the number desired, to Knight’s
Dome (Mt. Gambier) Limited, 350 George Street. Sydney.
For further information of either a general or technical
nature, fill in and mail the information coupon published in the
advertisement.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors of Knight’s Dome (Mt. Gambler) Limited,
350 George Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —-I hereby apply for shares of
5/- each in the capital of the company, and enclose herewith
my cheque for £ being the application payment of
6d. per share. 1 request you to allot me the number of shares
now applied for upon the terms of the company’s prospectus, and
I hereby agree to accept the same, or any smaller number that
may be allotted to me, and to pay the 1/- per share on allotment,
and the further sums after allotment in the calls provided by
the said, prospectus, and 1 authorise you to register me as the
holder of the said shares.
Name in full •••••••••
(State whether Mr.. Mrs. or Miss —in block letters.)
Address
Occupation ... Dated
Signature Y ‘‘
Please cross and make cheques payable to Knight s Dome
(Mt. Gambier) Limited. Money orders or postal notes may also
be used, but envelopes containing postal notes should be registered.
Please add exchange.
To the Secretary,
Knight’s Dome (Mt. Gambier) Ltd.,
35(1 George Street, Sydney. .
Please supply me, free of cost and obligation to myself, with
the full prospectus of your company and also detailed information
concerning
Name
Address
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Edison’s latest novelty is a talking clock,
which bawls : “One !” “Two !” “Three !” etc.,
instead of striking the hours. The alarm
ë
ask for a rise. Been ’ere
nine months now, sir; think
I’ve given satisfaction, sir.”
“Rise, Joe?” said Mr.
Dingle. “Nonsense, my
boy; times are really too
bad. And besides” but
Joe was gone.
“Damn ’im! I knew it
was no good.”
Joe did very little work
that morning; he was think-
ing hard. When Mr. Dingle
summoned him to go to the
bank, he started and blushed.
With £250 in gold, Joe set
out, and, when he had passed
the ‘ bank, he glanced ner-
vously right and left.
“It must be done,” he
said. “I’ve got to clear out.
Damn the totes!”
Joe went to the railway
station ; but when he found
there was no train for an
hour he returned towards
Circular Quay.
“I’ll get aboard one o’
them sailing-vessels,” he
said.
Then anew, idea struck
him, and he. set off for Par-
ramatta, where he would get
a train without being seen.
Nervousness again seized
him, and he became very de-
pressed. He began to wish
he hadn’t bolted, and the
tears came into his eyes. A ’bus went past,
and Joe ran to catch it.
“Stop, thief!” cried a newsboy, and Joe
nearly fell with fright. He saw a policeman
in the ’bus, and ran back.
“Damn yer!” yelled the driver.
“It’s no good. I’ll give myself up,” said
Joe, and he hurried towards Mr. Dingle’s
office. As he approached the bank it occurred
to him to pay in the money, and he did so.
“That you, Joe?” said Mr. Dingle.
“Yes, sir,” said Joe, as he entered his
employer’s office with downcast eyes.
“I’ve been .thinking about that rise,” said
Mr. Dingle good-humoredly; “7s. 6d. is
rather small, and I’ll give you 12s. 6d. from
to-day. Pay in that money, Joe? Ah, I see
you have the receipt. You’re crying, boy.
What’s wrong? Not well?”
“No. sir,” said Joe as he left the room.
Edward Ray.
According to the voracious cable, a Phila-
delphia (U.S.) hash-housekeeper has _con-
fessed to having murdered a boarder with a
large appetite because he got enraged at
the way the victim went through the vie
tuals. After committing the
crime he cut the hungi.i
man into small bits and
stowed the fragments away
out of sight, but they seen
to have come to light agai
and brought the aggravate
assassin into trouble. Tie
whole story is a miserabi
commentary upon the . fool
ishness of providing lavisl
dinners in a boarding-house
The bill-of-fare should b'
adjusted according to th
mental endurance of tli
proprietor, and should never
embrace more food than h
can see disappearing dow
the throat of one man with
out feeling homicidal. li-
the present case the unhapp:
criminal evidently supplied
his gluttonous boarder wit!
facilities for making a beas
of himself by placing befou
him large masses of food, and
at the , same time he volun-
tarily sought a crown of
martyrdom by remaining in
the room to dispose of the
provisions, well knowing
that he would have to boil
over or burst his waistcoat
with indignation before the
human hog was more than
half through ; and this in-
judicious conduct has already
cost one life, arid bids fair
to cost another. Future
hash-housekeepers would do
well to profit by the experi-
ence of this uuhappv sinner
in Philadelphia. When a
particularly hungry boarder
comes along the landlord
should ascertain by means of
his mental thermometer how
much food he can see the
stranger consume without slaughtering bun
in a heap, and then he should place this
amount on the table and say: “Mr. Smith
supposing, of course, that the person happens
to be Smith, which is likely, enough, unless
perchance it chances to be Smythe or Caring-
ton —“that is all the dinner you can eat
in this house without becoming_ a mangled
corpse.” If a hint of this sort is not .suffi-
cient warning, then the blood of the boarder
rests upon his own head.
A debating society down south has been
considering the proposition, “That strong
language is not only morally unobjectionable
but is a positive relief to the feelings,” and
a strong and intelligent party in the society
recorded its vote in favor of, a. rich apd
copious blasphemy. We sympathise with the
mover of the resolution: What would the
politician be without -strong language?—
a mere automaton full of-unexpressed senti-
ments and smothered indignation. What
would the clergyman be if he couldn’t pound
the desk in front of him and talk about
Hell? How would the bullock-driver get on
if there was nothing but gentlemanly
language in existence, arid he couldn’t dash
the offsider, and tell him to mind where lie
G. R. ASHTON.
THE REASONS WHY.
Sox: “ Why do they ring a bell when there is a fire, Father?"
FATHER: "To make people go to the fire!”
SON: “Why do they ring the church bell?”
FATHER: “To make people keep away from, the fire."
[25/10/ 90]
was going if he . didn’t want his gory liorn
knocked off his profane head and the rest
of his condemned carcase banged to ?
Does anybody suppose that a man wants.-to
use high-class poetry or lofty theological
expressions when he is getting - three teeth
drawn without chloroform? What good is the
noble language of Isaiah to a person whose
wife has just eloped and taken his shirts
and all the furniture, and left nothing, behind
but an asthmatic cat? Can even a lady get
along with the ordinary resources of cul-
ture when she has drunk boiling tea by mis-
take? If she doesn’t swear audibly, she
thinks it, which is much the same, and the
world has got to have some profane language
handy, for life is full of circumstances which
can’t be expressed without it. [5/7/’9O.J
ON THE PLAINS.
Alone with the silence, the sun and sky,
Alone on the tussocky plain I lie.
An ocean of yellow from east to west
Still rolling and sweeping, far crest on crest;
And billow on billow the tussocks bend
Until in one shimmering haze they blend,
Where, under the distance, the heat and
noon,
The plains, in an ecstasy thrilling, swoon
K, t-
,c(erf '% \
J C A A,
/?/ ‘^^S***^
v "V^*
x /j
ē
[AUG 2. 1890.]
And melt in the yellow-tinged sombre air,
Like perfume from roses on evenings rare !
Where the sky and the misty horizon meet
The flax bushes float like a far-off fleet,
And slowly they swim with no spray nor
splash,
While swell their green sails and their brown
oax-s flash!
So. lost in two oceans—of plain and sky—
Full-length on the tussocks alone I lie!
macrilani).
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


ackache
IS YOUR LIFE A
DAILY TORTURE?
Short, sharp stabbing pains in the back when you rise
from bed; real torture to straighten the body after stooping;
you say: Oh, this terrible backache!” Do you know that the
painful symptoms you complain of are sure signs of dangerous
kidney trouble? Just as a creaky” door tells you there is
something wrong, so painful, chronic backache, stabbing-like
pains when you bend or move, a constant, ”tired-out,” ”too-
old feeling, tells you there is hidden trouble in the body.
kidney trouble is the cause
OF YOUR PAIN.
Chronic backache is in all probability the start of serious
lumbago, painful rheumatism, or perhaps bladder trouble.
1 hey all point to one thing—kidney trouble. The kidneys
are failing in their action, uric acid poisons or harmful bacteria
are accumulating in the blood, with the result that sensitive
nerves send out their S O S to the brain to ask for help—
that is why you suffer pain. Poisons are being stored up in
the blood, which, lodging in the muscles and joints, are
causing a state of inflammation. Until you prompt the kidneys
to filter out the pain-giving poisons, you cannot hope to be
rid of body and nerve-racking pains.
\\W AA \ \ il'll 1)/;/ / //////////, s ,
DeWITTS
fPPi lls ER i
>f y >' ■
::
iliillil
wmm
■
mm
'Mm
s >
in
END THAT AGONISING
PAIN TO-DAY.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills have ended chronic pain and
suffering when all else has failed.
Men and women in dreadful pain
for years say “De Witt’s” ended
that pain and brought them
health, strength and vigor in a
marvellously short time.
Sufferers from chronic back-
ache—there is no need to sit in
dreadful pain “wondering” if your
bod y-torturing, brain-racking
trouble can be banished. We are
convinced that, with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills taken
regularly, your suffering will
quickly end. Sold by chemists
everywhere, price 3/6 per box.
CONVINCING TESTIMONY
Mrs. Margaret Cunningham,
of 1, York Place, Rozelle, Sydney
(N.S.W.), says: “For 18 months
I suffered severely from chronic
backache, and could yet no rest
at night. One day I saw in the
newspaper an advertisement con-
cerning L)e Witt’s Pills, so I
thought 1 would buy some. Two
bottles were all that was neces-
sary to bring me complete
relief. ”
Mrs. L. A. Bulley, 93 Chelten-
ham Road, Burwood (N.S.W.),
says; “I cannot speak too highly
of Dc Witt’s Pills, as when I
started them for kidney trouble
I had been ordered an operation
and refused. Then 1 was recom-
mended to give ‘De Witt's' a fair
trial, which I did and got relief
at once. I am now' in perfect
health.''
DAD AND THE BOYS KEEP HOUSE
STEELE RUDD TELLS HOW MOTHER AND SARAH WENT OFF FOR
A HOLIDAY AND HOW DAD AND THE BOYS KEPT HOUSE.
FOR years the Morgans had been coaxing
Mother and Sarah to take a holiday and
stay at their place for a week or a
fortnight. Sarah was always willing and
ready to go—it “would be just Heaven” to
her. But Mother would shake her head and tell
them that Dad wouldn’t agree to it at all; he
and the boys could never manage to get along
by themselves —not even for a day or two.
“Never since you’ve been married, my
dear,” Mrs. Morgan reminded her, “have you
had even a day’s holiday that I know of; so
while I’m here I’ll speak to Mr. Rudd
myself, and tell him he’ll have to let you
come for a change and a rest —for a little
while, anyway—from all the work. If he’s
got any sense he’ll see you’ll be all the better
for it when you come back. He and the boys
will be none the worse, either, for looking-
after themselves while you’re away—they’ll
be all the better for it, in fact. Where is he?”
“They’re all down the paddock,” Mother
answered, coloring up, for leaving home was
a delicate subject with her. “But they’ll be
in any moment for their morning tea —.
Sarah is getting’ it ready now. Still, I don’t
think I would mention it to him, Mrs.
Morgan—not to-day.”
“No, I wouldn’t, Mrs. Morgan,” Sarah
urged, rattling tea-things on the table. Sarah,
as a rule, hadn’t much fear of Dad, but she
never liked to be present when he was flying
off the handle at a visitor.
But on this day Mrs. Morgan was irre-
pressibly cheerful and confident. “Yes, I
shall,” she answered; “we want you both
with us—nothing would make us happier over
there. You both deserve a holiday, and you
need it, and I don’t care how he takes it—
I’m going to tell him. Oh, he knows me of old !”
Though the faces of the others flushed to
a deeper red, they couldn’t help smiling on
Mrs. Morgan. They wouldn’t of themselves
have put the proposition up to Dad for
all the rice in China. And next moment,
when his and Dave’s heavy footsteps were
heard on the verandah, they had a mind to
flee from the place and hide themselves.
Sarah, in fact, quickly .found that she
required more things from the kitchen.
“Oh, it’s you—we thought it were,” Dad said
in greeting to the visitor as they entered.
“Of course it’s me, Mr. Rudd—the same
old me, too. And how are you?” Mrs.
Morgan, who was large-chested and freckled,
answered, extending her chubby hand, which
Dad took hold of as if it wasn't a part of
her, and let fall again—it wasn’t every
woman who had a hand that could stir Dad.
“And Dave, too—how tall you’ve got! And
how are you, Dave?”
“Pretty middlin’,” Dave guffawed, haul-
ing off his old hat and streaking round the
table to secure a front seat on the sofa before
the rush.
"But how did you know it was me, Mr.
Rudd?” she asked as Dad dropped his hat on
the floor and cast a glance at the table.
Mother understood that glance too. Mother
could interpret any of Dad’s glances in an
instant.
“The tea’s ready made,” Mother said;
“it’ll be on the table in a minute.” And off
she gladly went to join Sarah.
“Be th’ old horse an’ sulky, of course,” Dad
replied to Mrs. Morgan.
“We could tell by th’ wheel tracks cornin’
in at the sliprails,” Dave joined in with a
grin, “One o’ th’m wobbles, don’t it?”
“It’s a bit dished,” Dad reckoned. “And
both th’ tyres want cuttin’.”
Mrs. Morgan took it all as a good joke,
and broke into mirth.
“The old turn-out is known everywhere,”
she admitted. “But wait till we have a big
crop of wheat—we’re going to invest in a
motor-car then to be in the fashion.”
“A motor-car!” Dad snorted. “A ’orse an’
strong sulky is good enough for anyone—
and there’s nothin’ wrong with that one of
yours ’cept th’ wheels. Dave an’ me ’ll put
a bit o’ grease on the axles before you go.”
Mrs. Morgan was pleased. “Now that
is good of you,” she said, “and it’s what that
Old man of mine has been going to do for
the last year, and never has done.”
“You can’t be too careful with the wheels
of a sulky that you drive in yourself,” Dad
said solemnly, shaking his head; “and a bit
o’ grease will keep ’em from runnin’ hot.”
“And keep th’ horse from runnin’ hot, too,”
Dave added, grinning more. '
“Make it a lot easier for him to pull,”
Dad corrected, taking Dave seriously.
Then Mrs. Morgan saw her opportunity.
“And he’ll have a lot more to pull going
home to-day,” she said smiling, and touching
Dad on the arm. “Do you know why, Mr.
Rudd? Because I’m taking Mrs. Rudd and
Sarah back with me—that’s if you’ll agree
to what I’m going to tell you.”
Mother and Sarah put their ears to the
kitchen-door and listened.
“They both need a good rest after all
the years of hard work they’ve done, and
they’re going to stay at our place and be
our guests for a fortnight—what do you think
of that? You don’t mind, do you?”
Dad stared at her and blinked.
“Away for a fortnight?” Dave questioned
in surprise. “An’ leave no one here to do
the cookin’ an’ washin’ up, an’ ”- .
“O’ course! Why not?” Dad snapped at
Dave.
“Why not?” Dave repeated, looking sur-
prised.
“Well done, Mr. Rudd,” said Mrs. Morgan
and patted Dad on the shoulder.
“Can’t I do the cookin’ an’ th’ washin’ up
meself?” Dad eyed Dave aggressively across
the table. “Haven’t I done it often enough
before?” In family arguments dissimula-
tion was a supreme prerogative of Dad’s.
Dave weakened. “I s’pose you have,” he
grinned feebly.
“Of course you have. Mr. Rudd,” Mrs.
Morgan agreed; she wmuld have danced a
jig if she hadn’t been so fat. “I knew you
would let them come—that you and the boys
could manage all right for that little while.”
“An’ for as long as they like,” Dad
added recklessly.
Mother’s and Sarah’s hearts beat so fast
that the tea-things they held in their hands
rattled as if there was an earth tremor on.
“They could have gone with y’ any time
—whenever they liked,” Dad continued
with a swagger. “We could have got on all
right without them.”
Remembering the storm there was when
they put it to him mildly themselves eighteen
months before. Mother and Sarah looked
at each other in astonishment. “Listen to
him!” Sarah whispered.
“Soon as you have your cup of tea. then,
they’ll get ready to come, Mr. Rudd,” Mrs.
Morgan wound up, and hurried, out to break
the news.
“Cripes!” Dave drawled, falling back on
the sofa, “You’ve put your foot in it now r
all right! I hope y’ don’t reckon Pm going
to do any washin’ up. An’ lettin’ them stop
as long as they like!” He eazed in serious
thought at the ceiling.
“They’ll soon get tired of being away,”
Dad said, after a little reflection; and there
seemed to be a suspicion of repentance in
his voice.
“You an’ Joe will, y’ mean” —from Dave.
But the hasty return to the room of the
women with the cups and saucers and a huge
supply of scones interrupted Dad’s thoughts.
“They can hardly believe they’re coming
with me, Mr. Rudd,” Mrs. Morgan, full of
smiles, said, as she helped in arranging the
chairs round the table.
“Is it all right, Dad?” Sarah laughed.
“Orright?—of course it’s orriglit!” he
grunted.
“And we can go with Mrs. Morgan at
once?” from Mother.
“Get away soon as y’ like, woman—soon
as y’ like!” And with an impatient wave
of his hand Dad sat to the table.
Dave as he left the sofa cast accusing
glances at his sister. Dave, who could see
trouble and discomfort ahead, reckoned
Sarah was at the bottom of it all.
Leaving the men to wait on themselves the
women withdrew to the bedrooms to pack
what clothes they would require, and get
ready for their departure.
Presently Joe, his face smudged with char-
coal, and carrying a hatful of wild goose-
berries, arrived out of breath. Hearing eager
voices coming from the bedrooms, and seeing
Dad and Dave eating silently and alone, he
sensed that something was afoot. For
detecting plans and intrigues in home affairs
Joe had an uncanny instinct.
“W-w-what are yous havin’ it be your-
s-selves for?” he asked curiously. “Wh-wh-
where’s Mother an’ S-S-Sarah?”—casting an
eye towards their room.
“Gettin’ ready to go for a trip roun’ th’
world” Dave fairly shouted in derision.
Dad threw him a black look; Dave avoided
i f by lowering his eyes to his plate.
“W-w-what!” Joe put down the goose-
berries, and turned his eyes again to the
bedroom. “Are they, though. D-d-dad?”
“Not round th’ world, dammit!”—from
Dad.
“And you're goin’ to do th’ washin’ up,
me shaver”—from Dave,
“G-g-goin’ fer a f-f-fortnight !■” Joe was
staggered. “An’ no one here but us for all
that t-t-time? W-w-well, I don’t wash up, I
kn-know.” And into the bedroom he went
to see the women about it.
Dad and Dave finished their tea.
“Now, I s’pose we better go an’ grease
those axles for her,” Dad mumbled as he
stooped for his hat.
“After sayin’ you would there’s no gettin’
out of it,” Dave growled, and grudgingly fol-
lowed him out. “Nice fix you got us into
this time!”
Dad ignored the taunt.
But the job didn’t take long, and when
the wheels were replaced on the axles Dave
straightened himself up and said: “You
can do th’ rest yourself now, and I’ll go an’
be making another start on the corn while
you’re seeing them off.”
A moment or two later Mrs. Morgan and
Joe, with Mother and Sarah, all dolled up
and carrying a large carpet-bag between
them, came hurrying like tourists from the
house.
“They’re only taking with them just what
things they’ll want for to-night and to-
morrow, Mr. Rudd,” Mrs. Morgan explained,
“and Morgan or. one of our boys wiH~ come
for the rest in a day or two.”
“They’re all packed in the tin box on the
verandah, Dad, and” —Sarah began to
explain.
But Dad wanted no instructions. “Get in,
get in,” he urged impatiently, “and make a
start; y’ got a long way to go ’fore night.”
“But you’re sure you’ll be able to manage
all right, father?” Mother, with a look of
self-reproach, ventured to appeal for the
last time.
“O’ course ! O’ course, woman ! Get up
on to th’ seat —the horse wants to go!” And,
emitting to kiss her, Dad hustled Mother into
the crowded sulky after the others. Then
calling out “Good-bye, good-bye,” and waving
their hands, the women drove out at a jig-
jog through the open gate on to the roadway.
“An’ we’ll be here b-b-be ourselves for a
whole f-f-fortnight?” Joe stuttered complain-
ingly as he and Dad stood watching the
sulky wobble away.
Dad was about to reply to him when he
suddenly became conscious of retaining in
his hand the pin which kept one of the sulky
wheels from coming off the axle.
“Dammit! Stop them—-run, boy, ’fore th'
wheel comes right off! Heigh!” he bellowed.
Joe gave chase, shouting “Stop! Stop, or
the wheel’ll be off!” and Dad followed at
a run.
Mrs. Morgan slowed down, and all three
looked back.
“There’s no p-p-pin in one of your w-w-
-wlieels,” Joe puffed. “D-d-dad forgot to
p-p-put it in!”
Never was sulky emptied more speedily.
“My heavens!” Mrs. Morgan gasped, and
fell out on the driver’s side, hanging head-
downward, her dress tangled about the mud-
guard and her fingers feeling for the ground.
Sarah, who occupied the middle seat, jumped
so well that she landed on Mother's neck
and bore her in disorder to the ground. Then
all three, Mrs. Morgan on one side and
(Continued on next ptige. )


Do not blame overwork and
worry —when all the time
unsuspected
constipation is
poisoning you
Constipation in itself is rarely a
hospital case. It is an habitual
and distressing state of internal
congestion. A great many people
are living half-powered lives as a
result of it. Harsh purgatives
merely aggravate , and cannot
cure. It is the great virtue of
Eno's "Fruit Salt" that while it
keeps your "foodways" from get-
ting into this clogged and poison-
ed state, it does so with due
regard to the delicacy of the
human mechanism. By the natural
process known to doctors as
"osmosis," Eno retains in the
food-canal the necessary fluid
e
to dilute and dismiss all poisonous
waste promptly and com-
pletely. Impure mineral salts,
harsh aperients, and crude purga-
tives are all harmful to you. Take
Eno first thing every morning
—and only Eno.
•words Gno and "tfruit Salt” are registered trademarks. Sales exigents: 'Rshe 'iKarold < 3. Slitcfrie&Go. Xtd Sydney
O S ' FRUIT SAIT
Mother and Sarah on the other, set up
appalling screams; and only that Joe was
speedy enough to reach the horse’s head in
time, and that Dad had the presence of mind
to stand and roar, “Wa-a-y, dam’ y’—
wa-a-ay!” the brute at the noise they made
might have bolted and wrecked everything.
“What tli’ 'devil did yor jump out for?”
Dad asked when he had rescued Mrs. Morgan,
“What did we jump out for!” Mother,
pale and trembling, repeated.
“What would you have done?” Mrs.
Morgan, looking to see if both wheels were
still on the sulky, demanded in angry tones
—Mrs. Morgan had suddenly become a
changed woman. And it must have been
in her mind that Dad had seen her legs,
You!” —she faced him with fire in her eye.
"Pshaw!” Dad retorted, and going to the
wheel fixed the pin in the axle. Then, grip-
pmg the spokes with his big, hard hands, he
gave the conveyance such a shaking to test
it that it rattled like a bag of bones.
H s orright now, he accided. Get m
and ott y go. .
Silently and cautiously they got m again ;
then bending over and glancing suspiciously
at the wheel on her side, Mrs. Morgan shook
the reins at the old horse, and on they
inoo-ou noaJn
jo a gca a »ain.
The first night passed off smoothly enough
for Dad and the boys; it was not a bit
different from any other night, and entailed
r.o inconveniences; for when supper was
over Dad thought it hardly worth while
washing the dishes—the few things that had
beeir dirtied, he reckoned, could wait till
morning and be washed up with the break-
fast things. Dave and Joe thought so, too.
Any suggestion to minimise work always
met with approval from Dave and Joe. And
as the beds had been left made up all they
liad to do was turn into them and sleep
soundly till morning.
Next night was different, though. The
three of them had been at the corn all day,
pulling row after row and throwing the cobs
into" heaps at regular intervals, and without
scarcely speaking a word to each other; and
when it was time to get the cows m and
start the milking, Dave and Joe cast lonely
;mX S »S d LE l,C „f Z
women moving about, and their voices call-
mg the fowls; and they wondered how much
longer Dad was going to keep on pulling th’
darned corn, and if he had any thoughts of
ever knocking off to make a fire and pro-
pare the supper. Their stomachs' also
reminded them that they had had no four-
o’clock tea brought out that afternoon. But
the lower the sun sank the harder Dad
worked
At last he knocked off. Gazing ac the
setting sun he heaved a .sigh of satisfaction
and observed: “It’s gettin’ late, so y’ better
hurry now, boys, and fetch in th’ cows, an’
I’ll look after the milkeans and see about
a bit o’ hay for th’ horses.”
“Cripes!” Dave grumbled as he slouched
off. “An’ who’s going to get th’ supper
ready?”
“That won’t take long when th’ milkin’s
over,” Dad answered lightly, and directed
his steps toward the dairy,
“It’ll t-t-take all night!” Joe mumbled
as he followed Dave.
And well on into night it was when the
milking was over, and the poddies and
horses attended to. Dave’s and Joe’s appe-
tite was well on, too!
“Well, now,” Dad said cheeringly as they
went inside, “it won’t take long to put a
fire on an’ get some supper.” The others
made no answer.
Dad pushed open the door, and in single
filo they entered the dark, deserted home,
All was silent, too, save the old cat, who
“meowed” and purred them a welcome.
Then while Dad groped and fumbled for the
matches—he never carried any, because he
didn’t smoke—Dave located the sofa and
dropped down wearily on it. Joe found his
w ay to the bedroom and lay on the bed.
“Where th’ devil do they keep them?”
came irr i ta bly from Dad.
There was no answer except from the
„ t t* nuiTP( i i on d P r
1 p). ld w P ent on groping.
i j „
Then something was dislodged from a
shelf and crashed on the floor.
“What th’ hell’s that?” Dad said in a
perturbed voice. .
P ave sniggered and, turning over on the
sota, covered up his ears. Dave had lmagi-
nation, even in the dark,
Still Dad went on rummaging,
Suddenly an injured squeal—a mad suc-
cession of them—came from the cat.
“Get to th’ devil out of th’ road, then!”
Dad roared accusingly.
“Oh, cripes!” Dave mumbled pityingly;
but not a sound came from Joe.
“Open th’ door, someone,” Dad in despera-
tion commanded ; “and let in a bit o' light.”
Dave, sighing, rose from the sofa, and, as
| 1( . felt his way round the table to the door,
called' out; “Joe, do y’ know where there’s
ail y matches?”
Joe didn’t answer.
“Cripes,” Dave mumbled, “he must have
gone off to sleep ”
” At T f n v thp Th
P been H waiting°outside.
™id h 'its ll eloven t hoofs B clattered
Tip 0 /!, j tPe °
boards as if theie was a dance mi.
that darn thing got m. Dad asked
hoarsely. . „
, . ‘Sounds like it, Dave sniggered, fumbling
his way back to the sofa. He touched Dad
accidentally just when the latter thought
!| o felt the matches on the mantelpiece. Dad
S°t a start and gave a jump, and the big
china vase that was an heirloom came down
smashed itself into fragments,
“ Steady , can’t y’,” Dave demanded, “before
you have everything in the house broke!”
At the same time, somewhere near Dad, the
pet lamb “baaed” again.
“Dam’ that thing!” Dad resumed vehem-
ently. “If I could see where it is I’d kick
its head off!”
“Don’t kick while I’m here!” pleaded
Dave, and, making a blind jump for the sofa,
fell over the pet lamb itself. The fuss that
sheep made! It “baaed” and “baaed” as
if someone was assassinating it, and careered
about the room till it saw the door; then
it darted out again into the night.
“Well, it’s a nice sort o’ way for wimmen
to keep house,” Dad, abandoning the search,
lamented.
“Gripes, but there must be some fire left
yet,” Dave broke in. Groping his way to
the kitchen he started poking and blowing
up the ashes in the fireplace.
“Here y’ are!” he called triumphantly.
“Bring some paper, Dad—quick!”
“If I can find any”—from Dad.
Then came a rip and a tear not unlike a
crack of lightning.
“ Hokey! Are y’ tearing it off th’ wall?”
-—from Dave in alarm. But Dad said no-
thing ; just made his way to the kitchen
fireplace.
Next moment there was light, and soon a
roaring fire; and what a difference it made!
When the table was set, with an abund-
ance of cold beef and cold potatoes and cold
pumpkin and a pot of steaming-hot tea dis-
played on it, Dad, flourishing the carving-
knife, called out: “Come along now, Joe,
me boy.”
But Joe didn’t come along.
Dad finished carving, and apportioned the
vegetables, and Dave poured out the tea
and filled the pot again. Still, there was no
sign of Joe.
“Must be somethin’ up with him,” Dave
suggested, and leaving the table went into
the bedroom. In a moment he returned on
tiptoe, Jooking grave and concerned.
“He’s errin’!” he whispered to Dad.
Dad quickly left the table then and went
into the bedroom. Dave sat thinking.
“Never mind! Never mind!” came i*n
sympathetic tones from Dad. “Come an’
have some supper—they won’t be long away ,
the time’ll soon pass.”
Dave seemed to get affected, and heaved
a deep sigh, and was unconscious of the pet
lamb’s shining eyes staring at him from the
open door.
Then Dad led Joe, who was sobbing hard,
out to the table and sat him gently in a
chair. “Give him a good hot cup o’ tea,
Dave,” he said, “and hei’e’s all the rest of
the taters for y’, me boy,” and he piled them
on Joe’s plate. Then he tried to brighten
him by telling him how he himself had
“stood on the darn cat in the dark.”
Poor old Dad! When supper was over
he escorted Joe back to the bedroom, pat-
ting him on the shoulder and telling him
that “Dave and me’ll do all th’ washin’ up,
and you get off to bed now, an’ have a good
sleep. It ain’t been made up, but that won’t
matter for once, an’ you’ll be orriglit in th’
mornin’.”
After the washing up, which mostly fell
to Dave, they took stock of the food supply.
“Gripes!” Dave exclaimed. “There ain’t
enough bread to do us to-morrow !”
“But there’s lots of flour,” Dad answered.
“Flour ?” Dave grinned at him. “That
ain’t bread!”
“But hang it, fellow, can’t I make bread
with it? Haven’t I made it dozens o’ times
for your mother long before you were born?''
“Did she eat any of it?” Dave said, his
eyes twinkling.
“Dammit, o’ course she did. And glad
to, too. An’ so’ll you be.”
Taking a dish Dad filled it with flour
which he proceeded to mix. Dave stood
watching curiously.
“What’s that you’re puttin’ in it?” he
asked.
“Salt, o’ course” ; and Dad added a pinch
or two more.
“It ain’t strychnine, is it? There was
some up there in a bottle!” —maliciously
from Dave.
“Look here!” and Dad, his hands dripping
with the mixture, paused and regarded him
threateningly.
But Dave didn’t want to argue. H'e went
off into the bedroom, and, sitting beside Joe,
cheered him into mirth by telling him he'd
gone to bed far too soon—Dad was “makin-
a batch o’ fresh bread an’ curin’ it with
salt.”
Next! morning. The dish of dough hadn’t
risen enough to satisfy Dad—the yeast he
reckoned must have been a bit new, an’ the
weather too cold for it. So he decided to
cover it with a cloth and put it out on the
bench, in the sun, near the kitchen. “We’ll
leave it there till dinner-time,” he said;
“then I’ll work it up an’ .make scones of
some of it an’ put the rest in the camp-
oven to cook.”
“D-d-did y’ put any f-f-fat or dr-rippin’
in it. Dad?” Joe, who with the dawning of a
new day had ceased fretting and become him-
self again, asked cheerfully.
“Not in this batch,” Dad replied. “But
next time I’ll make a fat cake by itself
for y’, or one with some currants in.”
“So long as you don’t put any strychnine
in it,” Dave said —and then hurried out
to the corn-paddock before his parent could
answer.
After covering the kitchen fire over, and
closing up the house, Dad and Joe went off
to the corn-paddock, where they all worked
away pulling cobs and talking socially until
midday.
“Better bo knockin’ off now, don’t y’ think?’’
Dave suggested to Dad as they approached
the end of a row. “We got to cook our own
dinner, y’ know, and you got to make them
scones before we can have it.”
“I ain’t forgetting,” Dad answered; and.
after collecting the scattered cobs that had
fallen short of the heap, he led the way to
the back of the house. Nearing the kitchen
they met with an amazing sight. Dad stopped
and stared open-mouthed. He seemed to be
struck dumb.
“Gripes!” Dave gasped.
“Th’ i-i-i-fowls!” Joe stuttered. And
both looked at Dad. If there was one fowl
there were fifty fowls around the dish of
dough, and the dish and the dough—or what
was left of it—were on the ground. Dad
just clenched his fists and ground his teeth.
“Sh-shoo ! Sh-shoo !” Joe broke out, rush-
ing forward amongst them.
The fowls, surprised, scattered —some
bounding into the air and alighting in the
dish; some choking and croaking; others
blinded with dough. They had dough on
their combs, in their eyes and clinging to
their spurs. There was douch on the ground,
dough everywhere except in the dish. A
huge black rooster, whose" head and comb
were plastered with dough, opened his beak
and strained hard to crow back all that
was stuck in his neck. Then in the con-
fusion he wobbled blindly into Dad. Dad
kicked him hard in the chest and swore, then
kicked harder at some. old hens without
swearing,
“It’s a pity, after all,” Dave said, “that
you didn’t put a bit o’ strychnine in it 1”
“Pshaw! We’ve had enough of this,”
Dad roared. “Put a horse in th’ cart soon
as you’ve had your dinner, an’ one of you
go an’ bring your mother and sister home.”
Color Life.
Oh, blame me not because I loved the sun
And lovers’ kisses and the breath of flowers!
1 have been mad for color since my birth;
The amethystine water-lily blooms
In their close apple-green of folded sheath,
And buttercups that flicker by the creek;
The ruby fragrance men proclaim a rose;
Tall calla-lilies in a mossy nook;
Scarlet poinsettia against a wall
Of rock, where mica flashes in the light;
The sea when it is bluest, and a hill,
Purple as grapes, in summer afternoon;
And peach-blow china on an ebony shelf,
And little naked ivory statuettes
Graceful as dancing-girls that please a king;
Huge water-melons cut in rosy chunks,
And copper beeches Parramatta grows
Beside the hoary barriers of the school;
And green and crimson fish in northern pools,
And purple shells, and pink bauhinia trees
Where nutmeg pigeons gather in the dusk;
And coreopsis blazing down the walks
In city gardens; poinciana boughs
In Brisbane, and flame-trees at Tambourine;
An amber necklace in a goldsmith’s shop
Close to the mottled greens of Chinese jade;
Parrots in carmine and in emeralds
(Nature, the painter, never stints her
brush!) ;
And silks in Sydney windows, rippliug down
Draped by the r nning of a merchant’s hand;
A peacock ’broidered on a white brocade,
Showing a thousand eyes of peridot.
Neck feathers toned from lapis lazuli
To deepest sapphire, or the satin stitch
On some old sampler of a Chinese bird
Whose like is not in ornithology;
In crystal goblets, bubbles of champagne,
Yellow as straw amidst a wench’s hair
After a rough and tumble in the hay
With some brown lover of the harvesting;
And mulberry port and absinthe’s wicked
green;
A Pekin bowl, just like a fallen sky,
Green and red lacquer; or a mummy-case
Spilling bright sard and fretted links of gold.
And great rough turquoises and Faience pots
That keep complexion of a lost caress
(I think there is all color in a kiss!)
These things could give me life if 1 were
dead . ~
And they were piled about me in the tomt>.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


I
Ik
m
Distributors for the
House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co., —'
Adelaide.
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle.
Macfarlane Bros. & Co.,
Hobart.
Bartlams, Ltd.,
Townsville.
Northern Australian Breweries,
Ltd.,
Cairns.
“Not a bite
in a bottle
...McCall lints
for me every
timer
flTCcdlums
Scots (tlhiskv
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 2 months from
for which I enclose £.
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
y-
=6
0°
\C e ol>
O'?
c
X' aO
e
*<*
<*•
s 6 .. -
** .•***
■•


ires nof so rosy that you should
foreg
o
SS
Such a simple luxury
as KING CEORCE IV, superfine
GOLD LABEL Scotch,
-s?
m
*****
King George is surely a luxurious
whisky.
%
y.
Sga
m.
y.
:. mellow os a sutisef.
as the heather
m #
• •
: . rich and smooth as
■'s>
%
J?c
<5?
KING CEORGE
••• Sllp6lfiil6
fang Qamj&fV
€td<scotc/iWJi<f
ftej
rZ)
M
COLD LABEL
Scotch Whisktj
