

IpF
r
. , 'fg
■II®
-v..;:v
81: lilii ; s
;
■■■■■
Hi
m
: : :
■
B 8
1
.
KPP
IV. '
1M
vj . Wi’v;,
•. - r
II
,5
■
■
m
:':>S
Hn|
■■
m
::
mm
v
i a
i§ii
MM
i - M
ms
9
mm
■•-v;
v'v
m
Wm
Si
i-
■
M
IS
Ml
Bllflflll
:
HI
m
m
: /S
m ■
m:
■
llil
Hi
i
1
H
v v
-■■v ■
111
r>VJ
ggg
:, s :
If:
r &
p
VT
m-
ill
Bwm
i
V
The tobacco that has made the
"Country Life" flavour so popular
is a special blend of finest Vir-
ginia. This blend is definitely not
obtainable by other makers, so
that "Country Life’s" fragrance
cannot be copied
I'-PKTS.
Comparison proves that ' Country Life'
are better made. Take one in your fingers
—feel how firm it is. Light it and see
how evenly it draws, how cool the
smoke. Those simple tests give you
certain proof of better making.
3
To bring you all the advantages
of Better Tobacco and Better mak-
ing, the greatest care is taken in
packing "Country Life." Tissue,
tin-foil, a sturdy tin or packet, and
an outer air-tight wrapper, are all
used to guard the goodness for
you.
I'e TINS
COUNTRY LIFE
cork-tipped CIGARETTES Virginia
Made in Your Own Country at The Garden Factory - Raleigh Park by W. D. & H. O. Wills (Aust.) Ltd. 202
The Bulletin
fg
Vol. 52.—N0. 2677.
Wednesday, June 3, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S
424-426
BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
5.8.231
I-YSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries,
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
How Rashes
Do Itch!
Bathe them freely with
Cutieura Soap and hot
water, dry gently, and apply
Cnticnra Ointmenl
It is surprising how quickly
the, irritation and itching
stop and after a few treat-
ments the rash disappears.
There is nothing better for
all forms of skin troubles.
Soap la. Ointment 2b. Talcum la. 3d.
Sample each free.
address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
ifucu&a
If*
(utienrs
W OffltMCNI
EM«
rTHE PATRIOT
IbIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN! J
AND ALL BRISBANE READS '1
Sydney Hep.: H. C. HINCSICLIJfIJ.fi.
2 HUNTER STREET.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
**• should read the "British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W. 0.2. where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ch
TQ
*
***
***
ssSV&v
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for,
your copy.
Write to Dept. Mol,
AMERICAN RAII.WAYS
TIBAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
*5
« /
7
M
il
ONARCH
Cigars
Craig sAitken
Wholesale
Distributors
qdneti N.5.W.
BOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE DV THE PRENCH
GOVERNMENT
CELESTINS is the
NAME OE THE SPRING
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen-
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
.and to consumers.
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
c&he following statement defies contradictiont
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the .eorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Sxamme the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes..
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER,
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
16 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
The Red Page
The Humble Babu
The best item that Honored Sir,, from
Babujee (Philip Allan; 3s. 6d. net), has
to offer is on the jacket:—
Almighty & spanking Sir,
one dam’ black tailor run
away with my wife.
Lord God, how wonderful.
There is no doubt about the feeling in that,
whatever the intention may have been.
A disadvantage is that it sets too high a
standard for even a collection of Babu
letters to maintain. Still, the very weakest
of this lot have some rib-tickling qualities
about them, and the book, anyway, is
remarkable for being, as far as I know, the
first of its kind. The idea of collecting
these letters from London firms and others
who have dealings with the Babu was a
brainwave —the most curious thing about
it, that it did not occur to someone long
ago. The Babu’s richness lies in his know-
ing all the words, but not knowing what'' to
do with them. He is like a famous theatri-
cal manager whom I lately saw conducting
his theatre’s orchestra in Sydney, and who
gave the impression that he had learned
all the expert conductor’s gestures, plus
having taken a course in in-fighting, but had
not troubled to learn anything about the
music. The result, as conducting, was an
arresting display of shadow-sparring. The
result, when the Babu lets himself go, is
this sort of thing (a letter received by the
superintendent of a hospital for Indian
women): —
Dear She, —
My wife has returned from Hospital cured. Pro-
vided males are allowed at your Bungalow, I would
like to do you the honor of presenting myself there
this afternoon, but I will not try to repay you.
Vengeance belongeth unto God.
Yours noticeably,
The examples given are a bit above the
collection’s average, but pretty well all am
refreshingly human documents.
Abercrombie
To step out rather towards the other
end of the scale of words, Lasceiles Aber-
crombie’s collected poems have been added
to the Oxford Poets series at the basement
bargain rates of 6s. net. I was sauntering
along George-street with him under my arm
the other day when I met a leading Aus-
tralian poet. He took hold of Abercrombie
with that gingerly touch which distinguishes
the true booklover, and read the jacket-
title. Then he proved himself both an
honest and an independent man. He said
that he had never heard of Abercrombie.
This is not exactly gossip of disparagement.
Abercrombie himself said, six years or so
ago, that “the more a poet has in .him to
reveal, the more he requires means to reveal
it,” and my poet had simply learned his
medium, sufficient unto himself, when Aber-
crombie, who is just about 50, was probably
pinching the neighbors’ fruit. It was not for
his improvement poetically that I let him
take the book, but simply for his enjoyment
poetically. Abercrombie is essentially a
poet for private enjoyment. He mentions,
commenting upon the peculiar honor of
being collected into the Oxford Poets, that
the success of his verse plays on the stage
has “been of a very modest order.” He
does hot attempt to give the reason, but
it is easy to find. He has no sense of
character. For example, he’ll have a tramp,
a wild, roving fellow, answer the question
“What are words?” in this magnificent
manner: —
God’s love! Here’s a man after my own heart;
We must be brothers, lad. What, you’re not one
Who thinks the soul a kind of chemistry,
And words a slag it hides its working in?
What are words? Come, I’ve the speech tomight;
we’ll talk.
In with you to my porch, and I will teach you
Serious things. Sit in my mystery,
And be wise. So first, learn we the world;
Then, climbing to more excellent knowledge, learn
How words are things out-marvelling the world;
Across which, as with the speech of all
other of his characters, it has to be
written: “Hullo, hullo. Abercrombie speak-
ing.” Another handy example is his superb
short play “The End of the World,” wherein
he has half a dozen or so rustics who all
speak high poetry. Actors are limited crea-
tures: a combing of the earth mightn’t get
together a cast capable of not making a
nightmare of any one of these plays. But
why—though everybody insists on doing so
—should the stage be brought into the
picture at all? They are not stage plays.
They are poems cast in dramatic form.
Taken in that way, they have, I believe,
no equal in modern literature, save the
plays of Yeats, which I also pray Heaven to
spare me from ever having to suffer from
the “good old flesh and blood.” In Aus-
tralia one has to pay Bs. 6d. for the book;
the joke of which
comes not from
thinking that the
booksellers may be
pocketing a trifle
over their passing
on of taxes, but
in knowing of the comparative junk for
Which they have to ask their guineas.
A Cricket Realist
Another writer who has learned his
medium sufficient unto himself is Hugh de
Selincourt, whose The Cricket Match Barrie
described as “the best book about cricket
or any other game that has ever been
written.” If that be true, De Selincourt’s
just-published The Game of the Season
(Chapman and Hall; ss. net) must be about :
the second-best. It is a collection of half
a dozen stPries, or rather narrative sketches,
presenting the scene on the village gr#en
and thereabout in a number of matches of
extraordinary importance—to the village.
De Selincourt does not describe cricket;
he makes it a spectacle. An instance of his
genius for doing this is the sketch “How
Our Village Beat the Australians.” I
cheerfully admit to having been com-
pletely tajken in by its realism. When,
the ball having shaved the wicket without
dislodging the baijs, Oldfield went up and
squeezed the stumps to make sure that they
were really there, I did not hear De Selin-
court telling me about it, I saw Oldfield
do it. So on with the other incidents of
that glorious match. Even the fact that
De Selincourt ends this sketch with one of
the oldest and most worn devices in narra-
tive—“and then I woke up”—doesn’t
destroy the reality of it. That match, in
which the village got: one; of the strongest
of all Australian teams but for 30-odd, took
place as surely as Bradman ever played in
a Test. For cricketers, The Game of the
Season can be commended out of hand as
the book of the season. But its appeal
is even broader than that. It is a very
choice example of realistic writing.
Hergesheimer’s Latest
Reality, though of a different hue, is
also trumps in Joseph Hergesheimer’s The
Limestone Tree (Heinemann; 7s. 6d. net).
The design of the novel is unusual. Herge-
sheimer, following the family fortunes of
the Abels and Sashes, depicts the develop-
ment of Kentucky up till about the close of
•ast century. He does it by flashing on
nine highlights, each making a chapter,
with a concluding chapter in which a few
loose ends are gathered together and tied.
Except for the last, the chapters may be
taken separately as short stories, and the
first is quite the best. It deals with the
time in Kentucky when women
had no need for hats —they tied bright cotton hand-
kerchiefs about their Jieads; their underclothes were
made of soft dressed doeskin ; in summer they had
bare feet, and through the winter wore moccasins.
The setting; is Harrodstown, a jumble of
cabins, to which, out of the woods, comes
Gabiel Sash. From boyhood he had lived
in the woods alone, beating the Indians
at their own game; but Nancy Abel attracts
him, and he decides to try living with her
in a cabin. Nowhere else in a generally
sound book does flergesheimer reach any-
thing like the dramatic intensity that is
in his depicting of Gabriel trying to adjust
himself to life in what is to him a bear
trap, with the old life tugging at him from
the wood silences, and eventually getting
him. Probably Hergesheimer did better
work when he was younger, but this story
keeps him one of the most important
writers in America. Some day, perhaps,
the authors of A House Is Built and Green
Memory may do for Sydney and N.S.W.
what he here does for Kentucky. Their
latest novel suggests that they may be head-
ing that way, though what all painters
of the Australian scene seem to me most
to suffer from, a paucity of traditional
picturesqueness, so kind to the American
writer and so capitally used in Herge-
sheimer, may deter them or let them down.
They certainly seem to me to have the
ability to do the job, if it is worth doing.
RED PAGE.
O’Reilly v. Shakspeare
Creswell O’Reilly says he is not prejudiced
against British films. I believe him. Why
should he be prejudiced in that direction?
What he is prejudiced against is life, as
depicted by art. The phenomenon of the
unconscious wowser confronted by life in
art and rejecting it is as old as history.
The situation in Australia, where the art
of the film is struggling to emancipate itself
from herd control and achieve honorable
expression, beautifully reproduces the situ-
ation in Merrie England when the drama
was trying to free itself from theological
(Red Page .uinued on page 5.)


'TBXJTH IN ADVERTISING” —The guide to commercial ethics.
Anthony
Hordern s
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
for
Better Values
and
Finest Selection
ulunuLj)
'fi*gy;/-''
§o%^
BKSSSS.e<
essFis
®BSKS
•:'• ■
V3«S
•* •’;.*•
•. l&l W'
mmm
SSS-SiK
gl^wSx-
m
Wt.
BBS®*
BLANKETS
Now is the time you want them —Now is the time to buy them!
imt
m
m
r
m
28/6 White Australian
Blankets, per pair
An outstanding bargain! White Australian
Blankets in standard weights and sizes.
Sizes Prices
54 x 78 in. Single Bed. . . . 28/6
63 x 81 in. Three-quarter. . 35/11
72 x 90 in. Double Bed. . . 45/-
81 x 99 in. Extra Large. . . 55/-
35/- Wool Blankets 31/6 pair
All Wool White Australian Blankets. A very
warm and serviceable quality.
Sizes Prices Sale
54 x7B in. Single Bed. .. . 35/- 31/6 pr.
63x81 in. Three-quarter. . . 44/- 38/6 pr.
72 x9O in. Double Bed. ... 55/- 48/11 pr.
81 x 99 in. Extra Large. . . . 69/6 59/6 pr.
Sale
22/11 pr.
28/11 pr.
35/11 pr.
45/- pr.
22/11
37/6 Australian Blankets 32/6 pair
Best quality White Australian Blankets, a value that on no
account should be missed.
Sizes Prices Sale
54 x 78 in. Single Bed 37/6 32/6 pr.
63 xBl in. Three-quarter 50/- 44/6 pr.
81 x 99 in. Large Double Bed 92/6 79/6 pr.
Single Bed Grey Blankets 16/11 pair
All Wool Tasmanian Grey Blankets. They are soft and
warm and represent good value.
Sizes Sale Prices
54 x 78 in. Single Bed 16/11 pr.
63 x 81 in. Three-quarter Bed 23/6 pr.
72 x 90 in. Double Bed 28/6 pr.
81 x 99 in. Extra Large 35/11 pr.
Silver and Dark Grey Blankets 21/6 pair
Silver and Dark Grey Blankets! High-grade quality! Be
economical! Replenish now at these prices.
Sizes Prices Sale
54 x7B in. Single Bed 27/6 21/6 pr.
63 xBl in. Three-quarter Bed 34/11 27/6 pr.
72 x 90 in. Double Bed. . . 40/- 35/- pr.
81 x 99 in. Large Double Bed 51/- 42/- pr.
49/6 White Blankets now at 43/6 pair
Superfine All Wool White Satin-bound Blankets. Packed
in box.
Sizes Prices Sale
63 x 81 in. Three-quarter Bed 49/6 43/6 pr.
72 x 90 in. Double Bed 59/6 53/6 pr.
81 x 99 in. Large Double 72/6 65/6 pr.
Use Our D.P.S.
Deposit-Purchase System.
Leave a deposit on selection
of your requirements, and pay
the balance in instalments.
No interest charged.
72/6 White Blankets now at 67/6 pair
Pure Wool Merino Blankets of the best quality. Boxed
attractively.
Sizes Prices Sale
63 x 81 in. Three-quarter Bed 72/6 67/6 pr.
72 x 90 in. Double Bed... 86/6 81/6 pr.
81 x 99 in. Large Double. . . 105/- 95/- pr.
( Blankets, First Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
Just Published
1931 Mail Order Catalogue.
Compiled as a part of the
service that is maintained for
Country Customers. Sent
Post Free on request.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Anthony Horderns
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Healthy Nerves
An enthusiastic
Sanatogen user—
one of the many thousands of grate-
ful people to whom a course of ~
Sanatogen meant the end of theii
nerve-troubles and a return to Health
and Strength—
writes as follows:-
“ There is nothing like
Sanatogen. Step by
step it pieces th*e"
nerves together. It pro-
motes soothing sleep,
stops palpitation and
puts new life into one.”
MRS. C. TOOTELL,
NOTTINGHAM.
While another writes:
“To me it seems al-
most like a miracle. I
could not have be-
lieved Sanatogen could
do so much good in
such a short time.”
MISS I. STANSFIELD,
SALOP.
SANATOGEN will do you good. It will do
good to the whole of your family. Sanatogen
builds healthy, happy home life by
conquering nervousness and fatigue.
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
*
-v5
l
»
1
m
%h
Wr<
iw
©W
/7^\
// \|j
w
\'
Healthy nerve cell o!
human body, magni-
fied 1,000 times.
Strengthen your nerves
with
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food
“ Sanatogen goes to the very core of well-
being, viz. the cells, and builds these up
into a lasting fabric of health.” In these
few words short and to the point -
a well-known physician describes the
action of Sanatogen. Sanatogen is made
specially to feed the nerves, which in
these modern times are so often subject
to extra strain. The constituents of
Sanatogen—glycerophosphate and
albumin are the essential building
materials for nerves and muscles.
By going to the “core” of the complaint,
Sanatogen conquers listlessness,
stomach trouble, sleeplessness, etc., all
of which arise from a common source
nerve weakness.
Over 24,000 physicians recommend
Sanatogen in writing . Follow their
advice regain health and strength
by taking Sanatogen.
Ask your Chemist
for a tin.
gf
Sanatogen is an invest-
ment in Good Health.


MURDOCHS
Great Winter
SALE
- -
I
©
Overcoats
37fe
(Formerly 5%)
Cosy All Woo!
Tweed Overcoats
for Men .D.B. style
in Smart Fancy
Weaves..
Freight Free
Thousands of
other Bargain?
Murdochs Ltd.
SYDNEY
fetters. It is commonly supposed that Shak-
speare reared himself up, a lonely and
miraculous peak, out of a plain as level and
monotonous as Nullarbor. But Elizabethan
drama took generations to evolve. If the
Bard had been born 50 years earlier he
would not and could not have written as he
did, any more than Beethoven could have
produced his nine symphonies if he had had
to score them for the tom-tom. If Shak-
speare had attempted it, he would have
been burned at the stake, anyhow.
Elizabethan drama, the supreme expres-
sion of dramatic refilism, arose out of the
mystery, miracle and morality plays. These
were either based on the Crucifixion story
or on biblical ethics. Theologians were
the only dramatists, the Church the only
entrepreneurs. The plays touched the real
pagan life of England nowhere. Gradually
the moralities shook themselves free of
clerical domination. Laymen became
dramatists. Their first tentative attempts
to picture life artistically took the form of
injecting into the orthodox set of symbolical
characters clowns and buffoons drawn from
the life around them. The Church was
not slow to perceive the danger. Puritan-
ism began to issue warnings against the
spirit of levity which was creeping into the
sacred topics. The dramatists became more
daring. The abstract figures, like Vice,
Virtue, Redemption, etc., began to be
replaced by human figures culled from
Italian drama.
Puritanism continued to fulminate, but
the playwrights were cunning. They pre-
faced their plays with long prologues in
which they pointed out that their intention
was entirely moralistic, that their plays
were really edifying tracts aimed at rein-
forcing the sermons of the clergy. Behind
this smoke-screen they gradually began to
discuss every phase of contemporary exist-
ence, to lampoon the clergy and to cater
for the public demand for reality, even if
it was only in the matter of obscenity.
Their plays became as lubricious as the
discourses of a modem Welsh revivalist; but
they got away with it by always providing
a happy ending, which, while it wrenched
real life out of its natural courses, fore-
stalled clerical criticism by depicting Virtue
always triumphant over Vice, even if
Virtue consisted of a very juicy Italian
matron who had poisoned her husband with
the assistance of her lover—the husband
usually recovered through the potion turn-
ing out to be a sleeping draught, the lady
repented and the lover was disembowelled
by highwaymen, just as happens to-day in
a million Hollywood melodramas. The
Puritans went on demanding the axe and
the stake for the transgressors, the plays
were cut and suppressed, but, the play-
wrights having all the brains and the Puri-
tans having only moral indignation, the
artist steadily triumphed over the Eliza-
bethan censor, just as James Branch Cabell
triumphed over the American Comstocks.
Then up rose Shakspeare. He used the
same models as his predecessors, he accepted
many of their conventions. But Virtue
ceased to triumph and Vice to be punished
according to the Mosaic laws of heavenly
rewards and punishments. Men and women
began to love, laugh and hate; and they
suffered the biological, instead of the theo-
logical, consequences of their titanic emo-
tions. Not God but an ironic Fate brooded
over their destinies. Macbeth perished, not
because he had offended against any local
code of morals, but because he had offended
against life by not knowing himself. Lear
was punished with madness, not because he
failed in knowledge of biblical ethics, but
because he failed in knowledge of human
nature.
Only supreme genius, springing in a pre-
pared soil, could have got away with it.
It is perhaps too much to hope that a
film Shakspeare will arise to repeat the
miracle, but the British pictures which shock
Mr. O’Reilly are at least in the right tra-
dition. “The Middle Watch,” “Young
Woodley,” “Journey’s End,” “Enter Sir
John,” “The Song of Soho,” “Blackmail”
and “Cape Forlorn,” despite their artistic
defects, are as unlike the cunningly salaci-
ous : American film which Mr. O’Reilly
passes as later Elizabethan drama was
like-the morality plays. Consequently they
have been suppressed, cut and emasculated
by Mr. O’Reilly, the unconscious servant
of herd morality. It could not be otherwise,
and there is no need for either pessimism or
impatience about it. As Anatole France
said, Time preserves only what Time makes,
and in due course Life will be served on the
screen, despite scores of Creswell O’Reillys.
M. G. SKIPPER.
An Aussie at Prajadhipok’s Court
Magical Malaya, by Ambrose Pratt
(Robertson and Mullens; Bs. 6d.), is a
direct result of the depression. Mr. Pratt
represents tin interests with headquarters in
Melbourne, and he journeyed to the great
sub-continent to extract from the relevant
kings, rajahs and British potentates sundry
concessions which would enable the indus-
try to tide over the crisis. He was also
commissioned by Mr. Scullin to inquire
about the rice industry, and found
that the hereditary rice-eater of Asia uses
our variety of rice only for cake-making
and baking.
It is a mistake to imagine that romance
m those parts went out when the Sultan of
Malacca, riding on an elephant, was defeated
in battle by Portuguese freebooters armed
with flintlocks, and when Illanun pirates were
replaced by foreign financiers and industrial-
ists, with up-to-date business methods. Mr.
Pratt’s story of how Captain Edward
Thomas Miles, now of Ringwood (Vic.),
and one-time Treasurer of Tasmania,
showed the Chinese Governor of Puket
that wealth undreamed of in his economy
lay under the waters of Tongkah Harbor
is romantic enough for anything.
Mr. Pratt believes that the best form
of government for Asiatics—in fact, for
anybody—is benevolent autocracy. He
paints an enthusiastic picture of the per-
fection of governance in British Malaya,
where there are no political problems, only
economic ones; where thousands of im-
ported Chinese and Tamil coolies toil for
foreign capitalists, while the Malay indi-
gene sits under his palm-tree watching his
rice grow and smiling benignly at the folly
of -both the white man and his yellow
slaves, who sweat and spin when they might
be keeping cool and chewing betel-nut.
British Malaya he found flourishing both
spiritually and statistically under the
rule of one man, the Hon. Charles Walter
Hamilton Cochrane, C.M.G., M.C.S.,
Administrator at Kuala Lumpur. Mr. Coch-
rane gave him everything he wanted after
half an hour’s interview. What a contrast
with the Australian democracy!
M!r. Pratt’s picture of Siam is curiously
reminiscent of the picture travellers painted
of Japan at the beginning of Meiji. Siam
has a long and bloody history of imperial-
istic effort behind it. It spread fire and
slaughter in Burma, Cambodia and Malaya
for centuries. Since the British and the
French confined it inside its own
borders it has set resolutely to work to
mould itself into a modern State able to
maintain its independence in a world where
the strongest are the fittest. The King is
a god, devoutly worshipped by his subjects.
He is the sole fount of law and administra-
tion. Foreign advisers showed him how
to acquire the machinery of a twentieth-
century State, including one of the finest
air forces in the world, and he is now able
to dispense with outside tutelage. There
is every indication that the next step will
be industrialisation. The Siamese is a
Buddhist and dreams placidly under his
cocoanuts of a Nirvana of non-effort, but
Nirvanas are curiously transformed in this
era of world competition for markets and
raw materials. Of that approaching change
Mr. Pratt is one of the symptoms.
Like Ibn Batuta, however, Mr. Pratt is
no mere business man. He is a keen
observer with an eye for natural beauty and
a warm appreciation of attractive femininity,
whether clad in panung, sarong or the
latest modes from Paris, and he has an
enterprising palate ever ready for new
culinary experiences. He is most interest-
ing where he recounts travellers’ tales, of
which he is a ready believer. One , such
concerns the alleged ability of native mis-
tresses to chain white men to their sides
by means of love potions, compounded of
the thousands of herbs which exist in the
jungle “utterly unknown to European
botanists.” Present writer has known
numerous white men whose enslavement
was ascribed to the pharmaceutic know-
ledge of their native helpmates, but he
usually found that the ladies were also
excellent housewives, good cooks, expert
sockdarners and agreeable companions.
Magical Malaya is a work of great if
unequal interest and is a fine example of
Australian book production.
PAWANG.
A Satchel of Books
What a tremendous amount of technical
information, ingenuity and brain power go
into the making of a good thriller! The
reflection is inspired by Mystery in the
Channel, by Freeman Wills Crofts (Collins;
7s. 6d. net). From the moment the mur-
dered men are found by the third officer of
the Chichester aboard the abandoned yacht
Nymph the author begins to show his know-
ledge of ships, machinery, finance, England,
France, human nature and Scotland Yard ;
and it is encyclopaedic. A splendid crime
yarn, in which the assassin turns out, as
usual, to be almost the last person you,would
have suspected.
A Welsh Courtship, by Fred W. West
(Jarrolds; 7s. 6d. net), deals with the woo-
ing of Jenny, a Welsh innkeeper’s daughter,
by Silas Brown in the eighteenth century.
Silas is a secret-service agent, sent from
London to check a Stuart rebellion in North
Wales, but he hasn’t much to do beyond
making love to the charming Jenny and
swallowing prodigious quantities of her
father’s home-brewed ale. This is one of
those old-fashioned romances in which the
careers of the characters are followed to the
end. The lovers are married by a comic Irish
priest (not till the wedding is it disclosed
that Silas is really Sir John Silvanus), settle
near the Ship Inn and have a large family.
The pictures of N. Wales are done with a
loving hand.
Vegetable Cookery, by Elizabeth Lucas
(Hcinemann; Bs. 6d. net). Contains about
350 pages of directions for pretty well the
whole range of cookery under its head, and
there are snappy biographies of the various
vegetables into the bargain. It is written
with the design of encouraging “a delight
in the good and varied cooking of vegetables.”
Its writer is a partisan in places—she agrees,
for instance, with the French in their despis-
ing of parsnips—but any feeling at all in a
cookery book is so rare that that is all to
the good. Present reviewer cannot agree
with her that the best way to cook corn is
to put it in cold water and then boil for 20
minutes. It’s at its best when it has been
tossed in with the boiling corned beef —a
plebeian taste probably, but corn’s like that.
Anyway, the Satchel copy has been presented
to a boardinghouse-keeper, more in remem-
brance than in hope.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
D.0.W.H.: Nearly all have such bright
patches that it’s a pity to see them in such thin
company. .< .A.J.H.: Can only advise you to read
the best verse you can lay hands on. You’re very shaky
so far... .W.N.L.: Belong to the autograph-book
class... .A.8.M.: Old Bill, having gone out West,
“was in memory only a name.” However he
returned:—
So when Old Bill staggered in looking so sad
The boys all thought he looked pretty bad.
He didn’t speak for a while,
Then his face was lit by a smile.
“I’ve come home, boys,” he said,
“And I’ll soon be dead.”
Then he looked about himself glassy-eyed
And slowly rolled over and died.
....Verma: You’ll have to learn to pack the goods
tighter... .F.J.8.; “When Dame Misfortune cruelly
began with flames of poverty to char the store of
pride and happiness,” you should have reached for
a fire-extinguisher instead of a fountain-pen... .Ake
Ake: Faint pencil tracing to hand. What is it,
a poem or a design for the fiduciary notes ?....
R. 11.: Such a formidable anti-marriage list that it
made the Religious Editor break even his engage-
ment to have a drink... .J.H.: Sorry; can’t replace
the vanished bob on the strength of that....L e Nor-
man; Rather a confused piece of imagery R.S.A.:
Two only:—
Anything to me looks brighter
Than this defaulting, witless blighter.
Prize of half a cake of bath soap will be paid to
the first reader who names the inspiration of the
couplet... .S.L.: Interesting at points, but the com-
plete effects are not impressive... .Novet; Reads like
soup... .C.8.D.; Bushman’s last request, to “shelter
so kindly my ashes and head,” is not a good ad.
for the local crematorium E. 8.; “Life’s Rivers”
won’t float a cheque G.G.: Pity to waste per-
fectly good bile like that E.K.: Nice cheerful
philosophy, but as verse it’s washy... .P.G.: Might
go all right as a Button Day effort Fishook:
You rather mullet.... T. 0.5.: The affair between
the sunflower and the violet seems a bit out in pro-
portions.... L.L.: No prospect in “Whisperin’
Gully”... .Pat: Now you’ve gone and made us
blush B. Bri.; “Excuse this: I wrote it in
a hurry.” It looked more as if you’d written
it in a wrestling match... .Nauticus: Evokes only a
naughty cuss.... F.C.8.: No gold in “The Moun-
tains”... .R.T.: “Now flitting, now swaying, like
creeping thieves” throws a new light on criminology.
Eltrew: Afraid you’ll have to go on cutting
your “naim in bark and bords” for a while yet....
Mel S.: Sorry; frightful rush of good Answers
verse this week.. • .Eness: Not so bad, but the
target’s further up Manda: Here and there you
almost lapse into verse.... 0.N.: “Will the basket
call this unprintable?” Yes ; and in language that was.
Cupid: Your darts need a touch of grindstone
O. : Can’t agree with you that praising “the feeble
effort” means “inspiring thereby great things to
achieve”... .W.J.McC.: Doesn’t quite make the
weight, though its ring is sincere... .C.H.R.: No,
your “inability to appreciate ‘Bellerive’ ” is not “due
to the absence of some rare quality of humor” in
your make-up. Heaven forbid! Why, “Bellerive” is
one of the most serious contributors in the whole
army of Answers- poets... .Z.P.: On the fragile side.
C.J.E;: Nothing that lias already seen print,
please.... Bellerive: Honor where honor is due: : —
THE NOTORIOUS FLEA.
Mosquito’s and flies
Are pests, I agree.
But the greatest torment
Is the notorious flea.
Swift, acrobatic and
A demon to catch.
'Twill tickle your ribs
And cause you to scratch.
Men may endeavor,
But to’ the truth they'd agree,
That women are clever at—
At catching a flea.
( Next: “Boa-constMctor of the Tropics/’)
. ...D.J.R.: Resurrection of Mr. Dooley put back
into his coffin and rammed home... .G.W.: “Still
and on” may be a Scottish phrase, but “still and
anon” (at intervals and repeatedly) is found in
Shakspeare. The English “still and all” (notwith-
standing everything) conveys a somewhat different
meaning... .8.H.: “Billy Woods” duly received and
still in the balance D.M.C.: So that; ghost has to
rattle his weary old bones again?... .J.D.C.; Long-
winded and unconvincing... .E.M.: The four tall
men are mixed up in a sinfully tall tale... .N.Y.:
Nothing original about it... .E.M.L.: You fail both
as a storyteller and as a pathologist... .M.C.D.:
Readers resent being left in the doubt like that....
F.J.: Lacks the right touch K.J.M.: Common-
place N.A.; Not bad of its kind, but not the
kind we want... .T.H.: Incredible... .C. 8.1.: Too
many buckets of b100d... .0.T.W.: What a lot of
dreary tales are told round camp-fires! W.R.A.:
Ground has been gone over too often.... A.E.L.:
Pity you didn’t study The Bulletin before send-
ing it all those miles G.W.P.: Melodrama at its
crudest.... Cromarty: Not ill-handled, but such a
hackneyed theme demands more original treatment.
Scrando: “The Way Out” isn’t the way in
Hubbukuk; Not quite up T.P.8.; Some good
lines; more spit and polish wanted... .S.W.K.:
Marred by the ending.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.W.A.; Jerry-built sketch and a weak jest....
C.K.: Fair, but that’s not enough WAV.: This
is no rest home for your cantankerous charlady
P. Ornamental picture with an irrelevant gag.
. ...D.C.: Only middling 8.A.J.: Very nearly the
week’s worst L.F.T.; Same old gasbag and same
old tired tabby on the sofa A.M.; Your hand is
too heavy and shaky for black-and-white work. Try
bellringing... .E.F.D.; Apologise to the memory of
Phil May K.M.M.: Give it a rest C.C.: Un-
skilful W.J.T.: The object on the right has us
beaten M. 5.8.; Poor C.P.L.: Well meant, but
you haven’t the cartoonist’s flair for featuring only
the essential... .R.M.T.: Not a bad idea; not a
good illustration... .W.D.: Yes, the lines are vigor-
ous enough, but few of them are in their right place.
B.H.: A cruel waste of ink and paper N.R.:
A bit of an improvement... .T.A.H.: Drawn in five
minutes —and rejected in as many seconds.... S.W.:
Undecipherable smudges... .H.J.Y.; Hadn’t time to
sort out the flappers from the blots G.P.W.:
Drawing arrived in a battered condition. There
must be art critics in the Post Office.


ƒ
yd
7
\
X
m
Pi*
*sm
40
01


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2677.
June 3, 1931.
THE PENITENTS.
“Each week the problem became more acute, and that which might have appeared a solution a few weeks ago was no longer a solution.”
Mr. Scullin at the Premiers’ conference.
THE TWO-GUN MAN: Say bo, we've decided to be good guys now, and we want yous to look after our shooting-irons. And don’t worry about the boy in the
corner. He's only there for local color.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211/ George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: IU-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 23!) Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/S. ; .6 months, 12s. 6d.j
3 months, 7s.
To ant address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 'id.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
IS THE PREMIERS’ PLAN
ACCEPTABLE?
There are two ways of cutting down your
interest bill. You can tell your creditor
that you have made a mess of things,
that you can’t carry on, that he is in
imminent danger of losing not only his
interest but his principal, and that his best
chance is to write off some of the debt, or
reduce the interest rate, or do both, and
thus give you a chance to pull through.
Or you can prove yourself such a good
mark, and establish so fine a reputation for
meeting your engagements promptly and for
living well within your means and thus
building up your assets and your creditors’
security, that there will be competition to
lend to you.
The Premiers of Australia have been again
sitting in conference in Melbourne. Faced
with great financial difficulties, partly due
to our tremendous burden of interest, they
have in effect decided upon the former
method of getting relief. It may be neces-
sary. But Australia ought to quite realise
what it is asked to do.
In the first place, it is not necessarily
dishonest not to pay a debt or carry out any
other contract. Man when he deals with
man know r s, or should know, that none of
us is alwajrs master of his fate. The best
that can be expected of any man is that
he should do his best; and we have set up
bankruptcy courts to determine whether
a man has done his reasonable best or not.
Especially the Court sees that its processes
are not used to enable a man to escape
payments which he could make if he were
honest and reasonably self-denying. If a
man has made reasonable sacrifices, has
practised reasonable self-denial and has been
reasonably industrious, there is then no
disgrace in bankruptcy or in any other com-
position with one’s creditors. Some of the
most reputable banks and other institutions
of Australia have been compelled to re-
construct, and, though the public lost
enormously through them, they still hold
their heads high.
But that is not the position which
developed at the Premiers’ conference. Here
the debtor said, mainly through the mouths
of Lang and Scullin, “I will make sacrifices,
I will practise self-denial, I will be indus-
trious, if you, the creditors, will make con-
cessions.” That is wrong—morally wrong
and indefensible. Lang and Scullin—Lang
especially—insisted that there was no dif-
ference between the wage- and salary-earner
and the bondholder. There is in most cases
a vast difference: one has a contract on cer-
tain terms and the other hasn’t. And the
moment we set out lightly to break con-
tracts or to exact terms for their fulfilment,
our civilisation crumbles.
It may be that in spite of all we do, we
shall have to go to the bondholders for
assistance. We have every right in the
world to do it. Bondholders are no more
exempt than anyone else —unless they have
purchased exemption beforehand and we
have pocketed the price. It will not be a
good thing to have to specially tax the
interest from Australian bonds: we shall
probably have to pay for it by and by when
renewal time comes round or the need for
new loans arises. Still, so far as we did
not expressly undertake to exempt that
interest, we are well within our rights in
taxing it; and every bondholder knew that
or should have known it. But forcible con-
version to a security of an entirely dif-
ferent character is quite another matter;
and to collect a tax on a bond which is
tax-free under contract, or to penalise a
man if he does not respond voluntarily, is
flagrantly dishonest, and is bound to have
most serious effects upon our credit.
Admittedly politics are chiefly a matter of
compromise; and admittedly in a con-
ference holding Scullin and Mitchell, Moore
and Lang, every man cannot have it all his
own way. Thus it may be that, in order
to get something done after so long a
period in which nothing was done at all.
it was necessary to concede something to
that Labor wing which demands “equal
sacrifices,” as it is called. We may there-
fore swallow the demand that steps shall
be taken to tax and thus reduce interest along
with the reduction of wages, salaries, etc. But
the tearing up of contracts is another matter.
Looking at the whole business from the
very lowest plane, our credit ought to be
our chief concern; and our credit is gone
utterly if we show ourselves prepared to
repudiate contracts at the moment they
become inconvenient to us. On the other
hand, taxation, so long as it is accompanied
by rigid economy, and is directed to the
balancing of our budgets and does not
break any contract of exemption, will do
our credit more good than harm.
WHAT IS THIS “LANG PLAN”?
In February of this year the Premiers had
a conference at Canberra. Whether Mr.
Lang would attend or not was in some
doubt: he was already an Ishmaelite among
them. But he did attend, and, after figures
showing the serious position of our finances
had been considered, he moved a series of
resolutions, which thereafter became known
as the Lang Plan. They are brief enough
to reproduce in full: —
(1) That the Governments of Australia decide to
pay no further interest to British bondholders until
Britain has dealt with the Australian overseas debts
in the same manner as she settled her own foreign
debt with America.
(2) That in Australia interest on all Government
borrowings be reduced to 3 per cent.
(3) That immediate steps be taken by the Common-
wealth Government to abandon the gold standard
cf currency and set up in its place a currency based
upon the wealth of Australia, to be termed the goods
standard.
The proposals got no support from any
other delegation. Yet Mr. Lang’s own
Ministers stood, and still stand, by them;
more than half the Trades Hall of Sydney
seems to be in their favor, and a campaign
on their behalf, undertaken in the other
States, has been by no means unsuccessful.
A plan which can get that far demands to
be weighed fairly.
“Here,” Mr. Lang says in effect, “are
more people to pay than we can comfort-
ably find money for. Somebody must go
short.” But he goes too far too quickly.
It is not proved that anybody must go
short; and that lies at the very root of
the whole matter. It is wrong to rob; but
men will rightly take the urge to crime
into account, and hold hunger to be almost
a complete excuse. Lang does not plead
hunger. There is, indeed, no question of
hunger here. He is quite frank about that.
The payment of these debts, he says, stands
in the way of the maintenance of those
standards of living and conditions of labor
which we have established in this country.
It is true that those standards and condi-
tions were established with this very money
on which Lang now refuses to pay intei’est.
It is, therefore, as though Lang said: “I
borrowed money from you to build me a
house whose upkeep is far beyond my
means. But because I like the house and
the style I have been keeping up in it, I
am going to retain it and propose to diddle
you out of the interest to enable me to do
it.” That is the Lang Plan.
But its maker has not always this virtue
of frankness, and occasionally seeks to
excuse himself. This habit is most con-
spicuous in part I of the Plan. He proposes
“to pay no further interest to British bond-
holders until Britain has dealt with the
Australian overseas debts in the same man-
ner as she settled her own foreign debt
with America.” Lang here confuses two
different sets of people—one the vast army
of British bondholders, the tens of thou-
sands who have bought a few pounds’
worth of Australian stocks; the other the
British Government. It was the British
Government which borrowed heavily from
the U.S.A. Government in order to lend to
its hard-up allies; and when the U.S.A.
came into the war there was every reason
why the U.S.A. Government should share
the burden of this debt. That is a very
different thing from the debt which is owed
by Australia, not to a Government which
can speak with one voice, but to tens of
thousands of mostly small investors scat-
tered throughout Britain, who put up their
money to build railways and do other
development work in Australia for the bene-
fit of Australia. It is true that- a handful
of the Australian debt to Britain is war
debt owed by the Australian Government
to the British Government. But we need
not worry about that. Britain is not col-
lecting a farthing of the sinking fund on
that debt at present.
To Australian borrowers the Lang Plan
says: “We undertook to pay you 5 or 6 or
6j- p.c. We intend to break our bond and
pay you only 3 p.c.” At the Premiers’
Conference last week, Lang defended this.
Why, he asked, shouldn’t we cut down
interest as well as salaries and wages? The
answer is that there is no reason at all, if
the same conditions apply to both. If a
firm has signed a man on for seven years
and has got from him certain concessions
because of the length of the contract, it
would be most improper of the firm to
put him on the same footing as those who
have made no concessions, or for him to
presently demand the same pay as those
who have no contract. But if a man
is employed from day to day or week to
week, he is perfectly free to take a better
job if it offers; he is perfectly free to exact
better terms from his present employer if
he can. And in those circumstances the
employer has also a perfect right to make
a reduction if he can. The bond is a
long-term financial engagement. There are
people—men with families, for example, or
life-insurance offices—who want to make
definite provision for the future. For the
sake of an assured income they will accept
a much lower return than they could get
for other things that are less certain. Thus
the position of this bondholder is entirely
different from that of the average salary-
and wage-earner: he has already accepted a
large cut for the sake of security. There
is, of course, no reason why any person
who has made a too-onerous contract and is
in distress should not apply for relief. Thus
a strong case can be made out for the
reduction of our interest bill. But it is
one thing to ask for a reduction and another
thing to take it without asking. The whole
sacredness of bonds and contracts is in-
volved. The world was horrified 17 years
ago when a Kaiser tore up a scrap of paper.
The Kaiser of the Lang Plan is willing to
tear up a million scraps of paper.
Then for good measure he throws in a
proposal to abandon the gold standard and
set up what he calls the goods standard.
All the economists of the world are groping
about for something to stabilise prices: it is
admitted that great variations produce those
waves of boom and depression which lead
on the one hand to riotous over-spending,
and on the other to unemployment and
distress. It may be that a goods standard
of some sort might be a solution: The
Bulletin, a year ago, suggested that a
standard based on five products of world-
wide use—gold, silver, copper, wool and
wheat—might be worth looking into. But
it is a matter for long and serious study;
and no one country could possibly make a
success of it, any more than a South Sea
island can make a success of a standard
based on copra. Anyway, no such alteration
in the standard is going to help us out of
this bog. We can call our money what we
like and base it on what we like, but it
will not make the smallest difference to
the value we can get for our wheat and
our wool or to the price it costs to produce
them, and those are the only things that
really matter. Whether we get a pound a
day for our labor or by changing our
standard get 50 pounds is of not the least
consequence: the thing that matters is what
we can buy for the pound.
The last part of the Lang Plan is there-
fore merely so much meaningless and de-
lusive padding. But even that is a good
deal better than the first part, which is
simple dishonesty.
A CONSTRUCTIVE POLICY.
Why doesn’t The Bulletin publish its ideas of
a constructive policy?— One of numerous corres-
pondents.
Probably what this correspondent wants is
still another scheme for remodelling the
currency, or “releasing credits,” or getting
three pints out of a quartpot. Anything
which doesn’t profess to work miracles is
in these days liable to be no plan at all,
and no policy either.
Well, for 30 years The Bulletin has
told Australia where it was inevitably going.
This paper has declared at least once a
week that a country couldn’t go into debt
as we were doing, and spend the money on
unproductive jobs, without waking up some
day to find the flow suddenly cut off, and
a seedy gentleman on the premises wanting
his interest and mentioning dismally that
the repayment of some principal would be
due next week. So The Bulletin didn’t
have to wait till now to provide a “con-
structive policy.” It laid down the only
course of treatment years in advance —
hard work and bitter economy; or, if we
were willing to be dishonest and take a
chance of having our heads punched, repu-
diation and default.
For over 18 months we have been playing
around with plans and policies, every one
of them a mere pretext for doing nothing
practical. Yet the course was quite plain
from the very outset. Having lived for
many years far beyond our means, we had
to realise that our standards were all wrong.
That meant, to begin with, an enormous
reduction in public and private expenditure.
Six cuts of at least 5 per cent, each should
have been made in the public service at
two-monthly intervals. As to private
employ, the whole edifice of wage- and
hour-fixing tribunals should have been aban-
doned. It was built on a foundation of
lies and shams, and must sooner or later
give place to something based on truth and
realities. The story about maintaining the
standard of living has become a ghastly
jest, told to keep a few trades-hall officials
in cushy jobs. You can’t maintain the
standard of living by forcing nearly one-
fourth of the working population on to the
misery of the dole or worse than the dole.
It would be only a shade more ridiculous
to line up 30 men who had been getting
£2OO a year, give one £5OOO a year and half
a dozen others £3OO apiece, sack the remain-
ing 23 and announce that the standard of
living has been lifted enormously.
Presently men will get jobs at lower rates
of pay; and still later the cost of living
will be reduced, thus compensating for the
reduced earnings. Meantime, however,
there will be a period of transition, during
which large numbers of unemployed will
have to be maintained. Actually the coun-
try has been doing this maintenance, but
getting not a step forarder, because of two
things: (1) artificial wages, etc., have been
maintained, and so the way has been
closed to the multiplication of jobs and the
lowering of living costs; (2) budgets have
been unbalanced, and because of the conse-
quent lack of confidence in the future,
interest rates have been high, and there has
been no investment in industry. Thus the
millions spent on doles and relief work
have been wasted, in the sense that \jre will
have to pass through this period all over
again. Whether we shall be able to pay the
same dole through this unnecessarily pro-
traded pei-iod is vei-y doubtful; we have
wasted our sources of taxation and destroyed
some of them. Therefore it is very neces-
sai-y that we should set up small colonies
where people may at least do a little
towai-ds feeding tliemselves while society
reconstructs itself.
Gradually with the reduction of public
outgoings we shall get our budgets to bal-
ance. The first definite movement in that
direction will be followed by the opening
of the London money market to us. We
shall then be able to turn our 55 millions of
floating debt into fixed debt, and most of
the floating millions will be again available
to finance Australian industry. Meantime
there will be a steady shrinkage in intex-est
rates in Australia, to the great relief of the
farmer especially. Even so, the agricultu-
rist may need special assistance: hitherto
he has had to help pay for Australia’s tariff
and social legislation and has got very little
out of it. A sales tax on flour consumed in
Australia, the pi-oceeds to go to the relief
of the farmer, seems the fairest plan for
levelling things a bit.
It is not going to be all pleasant, this
process of l-ecovei-y; recoveries rarely are.
But it is pretty certain thei-e has been
more misery during the past 18 months,
because of the cowai’dice of some politicians
and the moral obliquity of others, than we
need have had altogetlxer. Once put Aus-
tralia on the right path, and she will go a
great way towards recovering herself. Diffi-
culties will drop away—if we make a reso-
lute start on the right lines. We shall
barely have begun when returning confi-
dence will open many purses; and the more
purses that ai-e opened the moi-e there will
be l-eady to open. The call for goods will
be answered by factories that have been
comatose for 12 months past. The release
of the money now tied up in Government
overdrafts will ease the exchange situation ;
necessary raw materials will then be avail-
able for the revival and extension of Aus-
tralian manufacturing industries. Lower
costs by this time will have made the
woi-ker as well off as he was when he was
getting 30 per cent, more wages; and the
reduction will have lifted an enormous
burden from the shouldei-s of the primary
producers.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Reduced Interest and National Income.
In the circumstances it may be necessary
to bring about a reduction of the interest
rate on Australian public securities. But
any benefit we get from it is likely to be
indirect rather than direct. The reduction
of interest on public loans may possibly
produce a reduction of interest on private
loans; certainly the banks and other lenders
could not hope to get substantial deposits
at a low rate when the Commonwealth was
offering a high rate. A relief to industry,
and especially primary industry, may thus
follow.
Yet even with this, our future will depend
upon a resolute policy of public economy
and private thrift. Without that we must
continue to have deficits; and deficits mean
loans, fixed or floating. Now, it is one
thing to say to a man whose money we have
got that his interest is reduced to 4 per
cent, and quite another to compel people
to lend new money at 4 per cent. And if we
must have new money and cannot get it
at 4 or 5 per cent., it is pretty certain
we shall not get cheap private loans either.
It is our future needs that we seem in
danger of overlooking; and that, is why
the avoidance of everything liable to
damage our credit is so enormously impor-
tant.
In any case it would be a great mistake
to assume that any direct advantage will
come to us from the reduction of interest
on public loans. We shall not be one
penny better off as a nation. For just,
as we are not a penny better off by doubling
our wages and halving the purchasing power
of the £, so we are not a penny better off
as a nation by reducing the internal national
debt. There is no more money in a room
occupied by Smith and Jones because Smith
pays Jones £2 instead of £l. Jones is £1
better off, of course, than he expected to
be; but the aggregate wealth is no greater
than it was at the start.
From the national point of view reduc-
tion of interest is indeed looked upon
rather with disfavor by most economists.
“The effect of taxation upon the produc-
tive capacity of the country,” Professor
Cassel writes, “depends very much on the
use made of the receipts of the taxes. If
these are wasted in unnecessary Govern-
ment, expenditure, the savings of the people
will be consumed, and the supply of capital
will be so restricted that a sound develop-
ment of production is thereby hampered.”
In Germany inflation wiped out practically
all debt and all interest. The result was
that the interest did not flow back for re-
investment in industry—it was “scattered
in bits among the different classes of pro-
ducers”—wherefore Germany became, and
is dependent upon the outsider (America
especially) for new capital, and is paying
very dearly for it.
Reduction of the burden ol interest will
be a relief to many a mortgagee; indeed, it
may actually assist production, largely by
its psychological effect. But national
income is not increased through mere
redistribution. Only one thing can increase
the national income, assuming that prices
remain as they were, and that is greater
production.


“The Bulletin” Acquires a New Home.
As the daily papers have reported, The
Bulletin acquired a new home for itself
last week—premises in George-street,
Sydney, occupied hitherto by Holdsworth,
Macpherson and Co. and Keep, Macpher-
son. With a frontage of 45ft. to George-
street they have a depth of 304 ft. to Hamil-
ton-street, and there are further frontages
of about 240 ft. to Bridge-lane and the
full 304 ft. to Abercrombie-lane. The
Bulletin will leave its old home of many
pleasant memories with regret. But it is
completely hemmed in, and the continued
growth of its publications, along with other
things in contemplation, demands more
space. In the new premises, as substantially
built as any in Sydney, of two basements
and six storeys, each floor about 12,000 sq.
ft., with natural light everywhere, there
will be plenty of room for the development
of The Bulletin’s ideas of expansion for
the next half-century.
But, while it will leave the old home
with regret, it is glad to be able in doing it
to show in the most practical manner its
unshaken faith in the future of its country.
Australia is a great land, capable of a
quicker recovery than probably any, other
in the world, certainly far quicker than
any in Europe; given only a fair chance
by the politicians and the world’s markets,
it could be well on its feet again within
three years. There is something of a heart-
ening coincidence in the fact that the con-
tract for the purchase was signed on the
day when the Premiers, sitting in Mel-
bourne, held out a better hope of doing
something like the right thing than they
had offered at any time hitherto.
The inevitable alterations and the tre-
mendous job of shifting the printing-presses
will occupy several months; when the work
is finished it will be found that many
interesting ideas entirely new in the layout
of newspaper offices in Australia have been
incorporated.
■ ♦
Savings Bank Depositors.
Every week The Bulletin gets a bundle
of letters from depositors who write in
horror that they can’t get their money out
of the N.S.W. Government Savings Bank.
Most of them are hard cases; many of them
apparently have no idea that hundreds of
cases are vastly harder than their own.
“Can nothing be done?” they ask.
The only reply is that for the moment
nothing can be done. They and thousands
of others must simply pay the price. The
people of . N. S. Wales have handed over
control of their country to gentlemen who,
to. say the least of it, are in the closest
association with the Communists. Scarcely
a thing has been done by this Government
of which Moscow would not cordially
approve: the chances are, indeed, that Mos-
cow, directly or indirectly, suggested its
whole policy. The objective is “socialisa-
tion.” Private property and private enterprise
are anathema. Sovietisation is the means
to the end, and we have had examples of
it lately in the Transport bill, the Greater
Sydney bill, the bill to reduce interest, the
bill to grab the funds of insurance offices,
the unemployment relief tax, the dole: all
measures tending to destroy or commandeer
private property and vesting supreme con-
trol, not in Parliament, but in the unions—
that is to say, in the Communist heads of
the Trades Hall.
Now, though this great N. S. Wales in-
stitution was a “Government Savings Bank,”
it was a private .enterprise concern in every
proper sense of the term. There was not a
ha’porth of Government money in it. Every
fraction of it was the private property of the
depositors; and every fraction of profit was
theirs. We elected a Government such as
this to have the run of this bank. Well,
what could we expect?
But, so far as The Bulletin is concerned,
the most appalling thing is that it is done
in the name of Labor—a party which was
founded on truth and justice and fair deal-
ing; which abhorred deceit and dishonesty
in every form. To-day, under the cloak of
this party, and unknown to thousands of
those who still are loyal to it, things are
being done which shatter every principle
of decency.
But, it is protested, we know these men,
these Ministers, and they are quite decent
fellows. They probably are. The Bulletin
has nothing to do with them in their private
lives. Stories are told at every corner of
this man’s bribes and that man’s surrepti-
tious wealth. The Bulletin passes these
stories by as unworthy of serious atten-
tion ninety-nine times out of a hundred.
It is not the rogues in private life who
threaten our civilisation to-day: it is the
men with the crooked vision of public duty;
the men who believe that the end justifies
the means; the men consequently who have
no regard for contracts or promises or
obligations, if they stand in the way of
their mission.
4
Governors and Dissolutions.
From our Constitutional lawyer:—
A word to “Countryman” (B. 20/5/’3l), who
thinks (probably in common with many others)
that insufficient emphasis has been laid on “the clear
distinction between the right of the King to dis-
solve Parliament and the right of the Governor of
N. S. Wales to do the same thing.” There isn't
any distinction. The N. S. Wales Constitution Act,
Sec. 10, only enacts what has been the unwritten
law of England ever since the establishment of Par-
liaments. The trouble is that timorous Governors
(like timid kings) fail back for support upon a prin-
ciple, sound under normal conditions, but a shib-
boleth in times of emergency, that in the general
exercise of his discretion the King or Governor is
to be guided by the advice of his responsible Min-
isters. But there are circumstances in which the
reference to Ministers is an absurdity. One is when
the conduct of these very advisers is the obvious
reason for dissolution. Another is when the action
and policy of Parliament and Cabinet are opposed
to the reasonably presumed will of the people, and
that will can never be presumed to be in support
of dishonesty and national disgrace.
■ «>
Is Our Navy Any Good?
“Matelot”: The Scullin Government has
admittedly ruined the R.A.N. as a fleet
unit. It couldn’t go into action against any
imaginable enemy squadron now. But that
isn’t to say, as “X.N.0.” does (B. 27/5/’3l),
that “Australia could do nothing better at
this juncture than disband her navy and
hand the ships over to England.” The
Commonwealth has an overseas trade worth
£200,000,000 to protect, and our two cruisers
are particularly suited for the job, pro-
vided the next war is anything like the
last. Amongst their qualifications for Emden-
ing, or free-lancing, are speed and the
capacity to travel immense distances with-
out refuelling. They could journey from
Sydney to London, for example, after a fill-
up at Garden Island, without taking in more
oil on the way. Assuming the next war
is in European waters—and all the signs and
symptoms point that way—Britain mightn’t ’
be able to detach ships to guard our Pacific
trade. In that case the formidable R.A.N.
cruisers would be worth whatever might
have been spent on them many times over.
A
Sold!
Vic. Labor Minister Jones, South Aus.
Labor Premier Hill and Westralian Nation-
alist Premier Mitchell, reporting to the
Premiers’ conference as a sub-committee of
the Loan Council, placed first among “the
steps which must immediately be taken”
“a 20 per cent, reduction in all adjustable
Government expenditure as compared with
expenditure for the year 1929-30.” The
four professors and five Under-Treasurers
who made recommendations on their own
account declared that the general cost of
government had been at least £1 a head
higher in N. S. Wales than the average of
the other States; a reduction of £2,000,000
to £3,000,000 over and above the 20 per
cent, was therefore possible in the Ma
State.
When these proposals were discussed, Vic.
Labor Premier Hogan, according to the
“Age” report, intimated that his Govern-
ment intended to enforce the 20 per cent,
cut, including economies already made, and
went on to put a plain question to his
N. S. Wales comrade:—
Suppose the bankers, insurance companies and the
rest of the bondholders to convert their holdings
to effect a reduction of interest, and suppose Mr.
Lang or I ask the public servants to agree to a
similar reduction, and the public servants do not
agree, what action would Mr. Lang be prepared to
take?
Mr. Lang’s reply was:—
I am prepared to deal with them arbitrarily in
order to balance the Budget.
It is good to hear this from the lips
of Mr. Lang, and it will be better still to
see the indispensable plan in operation.
What Mr. Lang’s public servants will think
or say of it is another matter. He got
their support at the general election last
October by such promises and under-
takings as this:—
They [the public servants] have been the only
specific section of the community singled out for wage
reduction by Act of Parliament.... We will remove
the legislation by which salaries were reduced.
In the same speech he flayed Stevens, the
then Treasurer, for going to the Melbourne
conference of that year with an “offer of
an all-round wage reduction of 20 per
cent an economic fallacy and a moral
wrong.” He declared also that “N. S. Wales
must borrow to expand,” and that “Labor
will find the money to complete all those
works in which many millions are lying
idle”; nor need lenders have the slightest
concern:—
The Australian Labor movement would not permit
for one moment any of its leaders to be associated
with a policy of repudiation. The pledge to the
people from a Labor man is as binding as his pledge
to a bondholder. The Labor party sets its face
against repudiation, whether it is of the kind prac-
tised by Premier Bavin or that which is preached
by Alderman Garden.
The “Labor Daily” was so thrilled by these
words that it put up the headline “Lang
Repudiates Repudiation”, across a page.
The Alderman Garden thus “repudiated”
has since been the repudiator’s closest con-
fidant.
The members of the Public Service
Association were assured by their secretary
that the Salary Reduction Act would be
repealed and the 84 per cent, restored by
April 1. So were the members of the
Teachers’ Federation by their president,
who (if the “Labor Daily” is to be be-
lieved) said he had it from the Premier
himself.
The Bulletin can offer no sympathy to
the N.S.W. public service. It ought to
have known how matters stood. It almost
deserved to be hooked, so greedily did it
rush the bait. But that does not absolve
those who offered the bait. It does not
absolve Lang. It only shows once more
that he obtained office by false pretences
and promises. They may not have been
wilfully false. In other words, he may not
have known: he may not have been a
rogue—he may only have been a fool. But
the fact is the same in either case—he
got office by false pretences and promises;
and he retains it in spite of the exposure.
4
Repudiation in India, Too.
Dear Bulletin, —Either your Mr. Lang has
done a great disservice to the Empire as
an originator of evil ideas or he has the
same instructors as our Indian revolution-
ists, who are giving so much trouble. There
is, at any rate, a strong movement among
the revolutionists—who, of course, are
mainly under Communist influence—to
repudiate all “foreign” debt, foreign debt
being British almost exclusively. Further,
it is a debt largely incurred to carry out
railway and irrigation schemes for the pre-
vention of famine, which previously had
taken off such an appalling number of lives.
Of course it doesn’t matter much to the
bulk of Indian revolutionists. They scarcely
know that there is such a country as India:
there is no national pride among them. But
what of Australia? Repudiation is dis-
cussed, and Australia is mentioned. Many
—very many—lndians hotly oppose repu-
diation; and it would do some of Mr.
Lang’s followers good to hear the contempt
with which these people refer to the dis-
honest “white” country.—Yours faithfully,
N. H. M. Bowden, Trichinopoly, India.
■ ♦
Gold Movements in 1930.
One of the reasons why the gold-standard
system is creaking so much is that fear of a
shortage has made the metal for the time
being more a commodity than a means of ex-
change. In a world trundling nicely along
in accordance with the Adam Smithian
rules, the transfer of gold from nation to
nation should be necessary only when trad-
ing balances have to be covered or debts
repaid; and accumulations of gold in the
hands of a nation or of all nations beyond
exchange needs should make for higher
prices, brisker trade and cheaper money. It
isn’t working out that way at all.
In the year 1930 the world produced
£85,500,000 worth of gold, £61,902,000
of which was unearthed in the British
Empire. The Empire in that year imported
£28,100,000 worth more goods from foreign
countries than it exported to them, but pro-
bably more than made up this little loss on
the swings of commerce by revenue from the
roundabouts of foreign investments, shipping
and so forth. But the Empire parted with
£36,600,000 of its newly-won gold. The Bank
of England had only £1,665,000 more at the
end of the year than at the beginning,
despite receipt of heavy shipments from
this Commonwealth of ours. And the other
members of the Empire, including India,
with its favorable trade balance of
£81,000,000, socked away among them only
£23,641,000.
Where did the rest of the metal go? It
is easy to answer. France and the U.S.A.
between them added to their hoards in
that one year £161,359,000 of the yellow
stuff. Uncle Sam’s part in the business is
quite orthodoxly Adam Smithian—up to a
point. His trade balance on the year showed
a profit of £204,227,000; he has no debts to
keep him awake at nights, and he produces
about £10,000,000 of gold a year on his own
account. All he took from outside was
about £60,000,000 —a nice addition to an
already big pile, but not out of the way for
such a very prosperous person. But there the
Adam Smithian rules broke down in his
case, too. Instead of a rise in prices he ex-
perienced a slump, just like the rest of the
world, and found himself with the biggest
army of unemployed for years.
Mam’selle Marianne is a bird of another
color. She has a big adverse trading
balance—in 1929 it was £65,700,000; in 1930
probably more—and, as she has frequently
invited the rest of the world to notice, was „
almost completely ruined by the Great War,
which left her overwhelmed with debts—
the ruin would have been complete had
not her creditors been compassionate. Yet
Marianne bought gold feverishly through-
out 1930, and added to the great store in
her vaults, 200 feet below Paris, £95,659,000
worth. What she is going to do with it is
a puzzle. So far it has brought her no
great wave of prosperity and her prices are
no better than anyone else’s. Mussolini-
land, always jealous of Marianne, did a little
gold-hoarding of its own, raking in
£23,000,000 despite an unfavorable trade
balance of £70,000,000.
The point of most interest to the rest of us
in these rather curious movements is not their
failure to bring any demonstrable benefit to
the nations concerned, but the derangement
of the trade and industry of the whole world
which follows such interferences with the
normal flow of the currency basis. Pro-
fessor Gustav Cassel’s claim that the world’s
great Central Banks should assume some
responsibility for the purchasing power of
their money and control the working of the
gold standard, instead of treating it as if
it were as immutable as the law of gravity,
is a very moderate comment on an extra-
ordinary situation.
-+
A League of States.
“Lex”: Sensible people have long given up
discounting the League of Nations. Of
course it has not achieved its original aim,
“the preservation of peace and security by
international co-operation”; and maybe it
never will. But it has done a lot to soften
the asperities of international intercourse,
and so make sections friendly which were
formerly hostile. Many of the agreements
• engineered'by unselfish idealists of the stamp
of Lord Cecil and Sir Eric Drummond may
seem trivial. The unification of signs for
regulating motor traffic, for example, which
was adopted recently by 11 leading Euro-
pean countries; or the agreement to co-
operate to suppress counterfeiting currency;
or cheque-law unification; or measures to
control dope-peddling, white slavery, and so
on. There have been over 400 “ratifications”
since the birth of the League, dealing with
every kind of question, from the hours of
work in coalmines to the employment of
women by night. Not much good to the
forward States perhaps, but of inestimable
benefit to the backward ones.
Australia might find, if not immediate
salvation, at least inspiration and material
benefit from a League of States organised
on similar lines. The will to co-operate
is there. The arrival of the A.F.A. League
and other idealistic organisations has
proved it. It is chiefly the party system
which is keeping Nationalists, A.F.A.-ites,
the Country party and ex-Laborites apart;
and it is going to do it as long as pro-
fessional politicians put their careers first
and Australia second—that is, as long as
there are professional politicians. The men
who might inspire public confidence are
outside active politics. They would find
plenty of scope for their diplomatic and
other abilities as unpaid members of a
League of States committee. Thus, accord-
ing to the Commonwealth Statistician, the
living wage for Sydney is £4 3s. 4d. for 44
hours; for Brisbane, £3 17s. for 48 hours;
for Adelaide, £3 15s. 6d. for 48 hours; for
Melbourne, £3 10s. for 48 hours. Some
results of such discrepancies are that
N. S. Wales industries are transferring to
Victoria, and that the unemployed in
N. S. Wales have increased from 24.000 at
the end of 1929 to over 120,000. But it
would take a non-party committee, com-
posed of men of prestige and goodwill, to
make the necessary recommendations and
get results. Once the right kind of com-
mittee was formed public opinion would
force the politicians to respect its views,
as is happening over a large part of
Europe in the case of the League of
Nations.
It isn’t claimed that a League of States
would end party warfare, which, like
national warfare, is founded on a desire
to grab what the other man has, or that
it would do anything of- importance out
of hand; but it would begin to function
as a valuable moral force almost imme-
diately, provided the best men were co-
opted; and in time—always provided the
best men went on supplying their services
—its influence should be tremendous.
* 4
Red Support for Unification.
Dear Bulletin, —The Labor party has had
Unification in a dormant or torpid condi-
tion on the programme for years. Now
that its impossibles have wrecked a Savings
Bank and defaulted (as far as they could
manage it) on a public debt, the animal
has been prodded into bogus activity, and
good citizens are advised that they must
drop everything else, and concentrate like
the very devil on putting immense Aus-
tralia under one small one-House Legisla-
ture. Said unified Legislature, it is hoped,
will be modified in the confusion and put
on a solid Communist basis.
If Australia could be induced to accept
salvation by Unification the present
generation of political swindlers might look
forward to a protracted innings. It would
be possible to save £792,900 a year, or about
a half-crown per inhabitant per annum, if
the six State Legislatures were abolished,
and if no Soviets or Communist clubs or
anything else grew up in their place. At
least the half-crown would be saved if
Communist politicians didn’t spend it on
something much worse. The outstanding
feature of the Unification idea, which recom-
mends it to its advocates, is its impossi-
bility. The Federal Constitution gives the
Federal Government or Parliament no
authority to hold a referendum, as pro-
posed, on the abolition of the Federal prin-
ciple and the substitution of something
quite different. If the authority was in-
vented nothing could be done without the
consent' of every State, for no State could
be obliterated except by its own consent—
or by violence. It is practically certain
that no State would consent to take on
such a cumbersome job for such a doubt-
ful and infinitesimal gain, the possible
but improbable exception being red N. S.
Wales, which might feel that it was annex-
ing its weaker neighbors.
Honest but thick-headed converts, who
are necessary and at the same time a great
nuisance, may want to rush the Unification
movement to a show-down, but the bosses
of the movement don’t. They want to
keep it before the community, as they have
done for years, as an infallible remedy for all
sins, and lies, and swindles, and shortages,
which remedy they are toiling so hard to
bring about in the earliest possible cen-
tury after next that immediate straight-
forward endeavor is quite superfluous. To
get down to details about the abolition of
local self-government and its replacement
by a regime of trade-union secretaries,
would be disastrous.—Yours etc., Solomon
Malaprop.


yyairntr-
&
m
-i
A COMPLETE BANKING SERVICE
The National Bank makes a wide range
of facilities available to its clients at each
of its 335 branches in Australia and its
two offices in London.
Its Paid-up Capital is £5,000,000, and its
Reserve Fund £3,300,000.
To its large and widespread establishment
it adds experience gained through 72
years’ participation in Australian business.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Principal Sydney Office: 342-46 George Street.
r<j>
LADIES’
WATCHES
Lady’s red and
white gold watch.
£lO
La d y’s gold
watch.
£4/10/-
Hardy’s watches are selected from the world’s leading
makers and represent the best value obtainable.
Write for full y
i tins t ratedl
catalogue.
Selections sent
on approval.
g
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:,
116 QUEEN. STREE
MELBOURNE:
298 COLUNS STREET.
.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Parkhill, M.H.R., illumined the tariff
debate by a vociferous attack on the sugar
industry. He said that it lived on artificial
support, which is true —and true of many
other things in. this land of high wages, short
working hours, long distances and lack of
cheap river carriage. “If trade were per-
mitted to flow in its natural channels,” said
Parkhill in his excitement, “the cost of
living would automatically fall several shil-
lings in the pound.” More likely it would
tali several precipices in the shilling, and
break its neck. If all obstructions were
removed so that trade (if any) might flow
in its natural channels (if any), then there
would be no customs revenue, and no excise
revenue, and very little of anything or any-
body.
Slang to a Melbourne interviewer: —
“Those fellows,” he boomed, meaning the other
Premiers, f “talked to me about sacrifices in their
Parliamentary salaries. ‘Why,’ I said, ‘we’ve taken
a 15 per cent, cut from the Premier downward,
and we’ve had it for a long time, but we didn’t
go yelling about it all over the place.’ ” ■
Slang didn’t mention, of course, that the
cut was one of the last acts of the Bavin
Government, and was fought by his mob
to the last ditch. Slang’s final yell on the
subject when Parliament dissolved was
that the Bavinshaws had done something for
which the country would never forgive them.
Slang, who undertook at election-time to
restore the 8J p.c. which Bavin and Stevens
took from the N;S.W. civil servants, now
threatens to reduce them 20 p.c. as com-
In position.
pared with 1929-30 salaries. At the same
time lie is being bitterly reminded by the
unemployed that he promised a 25 p.c. dole
increase which has not materialised. Humpty
may now be considered to have taken up his
“possie” on the wall.
No financial reform. Federal or any other
sort, can enable N.S.W. to pay its way so
long as the Slangs are resolved that it shan’t
pay its way. Slang has run up the cost of
the State dole to something like £4,000,000
a year, and has promised to increase the
allowances by 25 per cent. His colleague
Badly has announced with righteous indig-
nation that about 12,000 swindles are being
worked on the Treasury by bogus dole-col-
lectors. It would seem reasonable to let
the police look into the matter, giving them
any powers that they lack for the purpose,
as fraud and other crimes are their business,
but Slang’s political heelers object to dole-
collectors, however bogus, being interfered
with by the police. So the Slang Ministry
lias provided 90 friends with billets at £5
per week and expenses to inspect the unem-
ployed, of course doing this in a way that
won’t aggravate any political supporters.
The Government has swelled to such self-
importance that the appointment of 90 addi-
tional public servants off its own bat in
one day is all in the day’s work.
While the super-legislature, in the form of
Loan Council or Premiers’ Conference,
was sitting in the clubroom at Parliament
House, Melbourne, the Vic. law factory was
put in tlic shade. Recognising this, Argyle
suggested that, as the Uppish House was
going to adjourn for its elections, the Assem-
bly might as well rise for a week or two, so
that Ministers might concentrate on the main
thing, finance; if the scheme forecast were
adopted the Government could look for Oppo-
sition co-operation in giving effect to it.
Hogan did not jump at the offer, but ex-
pressed appreciation of the motive behind it.
The 20 p.c. cut in Government expendi-
ture proposed at the Premiers’ conference
won’t affect Queensland much. Months ago
Treasurer Barnes calculated that the reduc-
tion in cost of services then ordered
would result in a saving of a million and a
half on £9,306,736 spent last year. If this
estimate is borne out it will be an easy
f matter to make up the 4 per cent, or so re-
quired, especially as economies not reckoned
in by Barnes are in operation.
“Four times the Scullin Government has issued regulations
granting the Waterside Workers’ Federation preference, though it
was refused by the Arbitration Court, and four times the Senate has
disallowed them. The Senate has now asked the Governor-General to
withhold his approval should any more such regulations be presented
to the Executive Council.”
“Hey, come on, G.-G., and play puddi[?]”
The Mungana case —Queensland .Govern-
ment v. Theodore, McCormack, Goddard and
Reid —is set down for hearing at. Brisbane
On July 13. Justice Macrossan is to pre-
side over the civil sittings at that date, but
as the Mungana job will last for weeks it
may be handed over to a learned brother.
There will be a special jury of four.
Johnston, the pertinacious Westralian
Senator, has extracted the information that
Australia is paying exchange at the rate of
“over £lOO,OOO p.a.” to pensioners in other
countries, most of it through Australia
House. This is not a fair charge on the over-
loaded taxpayer. Pensioners living abroad
for their own convenience or pleasure may be
very properly asked to share the fortunes
of the Commonwealth, instead of receiving a
burdensome concession from it in hard times.
The addition of exchange should certainly
be limited to cases like those in which in-
capacitated Diggers have gone abroad for
special treatment, or children of ex-soldiers
for special study.
Slang’s 90 inspectors of unemployed com-
menced their career by signing the Slang
“plan” and demanding to be admitted to
the Clerks’ Union. There was lack of evi-
dence that the inspectors had done, or were
going to do, any clerking, so the union
demurred to letting them control its affairs
and finances —30 is a good attendance at a
“How about appointin’ ninety more of the
boys to inspect the inspectors?”
union meeting. Thereupon the inspectors
gritted through their teeth a threat that the
clerks would hear more of the matter. Mean-
while, Slang, pottering with jobs and
appointments, says that he is less able than
ever to pay interest to the public creditor.
Lang has just put us on the map again
all right, even though most of the world is
using us there as a cockshy. Indian papers
are following affairs closely, knowing that
some day they may have to do some Consti-
tution-building of their own; and their com-
ments are very pertinent. Thus “The
Hindu,” of Madras, says it is obviously
absurd to make the Federation responsible
for State debts while, giving persons like
Lang power to do mad things at the State
Treasuries. “The student of Federal constitu-
tions,” it says, “will realise from it the
dangers of provisions which admit of con-
flict of policies in spheres trenching upon
national finance.”
The Spanish Republic has issued a state-
ment that the dethroned Royal family (King,
Queen and six descendants) was worth
£1,700,000, and that though a good deal
was nailed down something handsome was
invested abroad. The heir-apparent is said
to have saved a quarter of his little pile, and
the Queen about £30,000. “What must
people think of the patriotism of all this?”
the Republic asks; but after all the Bour-
bons didn’t really intend to
spend their principal and
interest, out of Spain. They
made some investments out-
side that country as a matter
of precaution or suspicion,
and the suspicion was justi-
fied. They seem to have
planted none of their funds
in N.S.W. If they had
placed the lot there, and
Lang had “borrowed” it all,
it wouldn’t have filled his
cavernous deficit for three
months.
N. S. Wales has been in
the habit of publishing a
quarterly pamphlet and an
annual volume of statistics,
though Federal statistics
cover all the States. It is
to have a monthly pamphlet
in future, and a larger pam-
phlet at the end of the quar-
ter, and the annual volume as usual. The
first of Slang’s economies, perhaps.
Another example of bureaucratic econ-
omy comes from Melbourne. A State poli-
tician ’phoned the Commonwealth offices for
a copy of Auditor-General Cerutty’s report.
It was posted to him, and on the package
was three shillings’ worth of stamps. The
Commonwealth offices are a block or two
away.
The Queensland Government’s experiment
in marking off 25 tobacco blocks in the Cairns
hinterland has proved so successful that, an
additional 100 are to be made available.
They average 60 acres ; rent, with a home-
stead title, is 2s. 6d. per acre, group settle-
ment conditions also applying. Each
applicant must have assets or backing for
at least £3OO. Though the settlement at
Mareeba is only 12 months old, it is expected
that the first crop will bulk about 40,0001 b.,
with a value, at present rates, of £6OOO. In
addition to starting a useful industry, the
Government found work for many un-
employed in clearing and ploughing five acres
of each block, charging £l2 an acre.
Archdale Parkhill told the House that he
“remembered the time when people could get
sugar free with a pound of tea.” They can
do the same yet if they don’t want too much
sugar and are willing to pay enough for
the tea. A little thing like that can always
be arranged. In the spacious days of Free-
trade Parkes (about 1886) there was a tailor
in Sydney who gave away a building allot-
ment with every suit of clothes. The suit
wasn't much. The allotment was steep and
rocky and remote. And the recipient had to
pay a certain solicitor for the transfer. As
the solicitor shared the fees with the tailor
(till the Law Society got anxious), the Free-
trade transaction showed a profit for both.
People are accustomed to call Britain a
Freetrade country because it calls itself and
thinks itself one. It isn’t as wild in reality
as our Freetraders are on paper. John Bull
is quite willing that raw cane sugar should
come in unobstructed, because his climate
doesn’t produce the article, but he reckons
the sugar refineries are worth assisting with
a sliding scale of duties. It slides as high
as £ll Bs. per ton.
The N.S.W. Don’t-Care-a-Hang Govern-
ment is within a few weeks of the close of
the financial year and hasn’t got out its
financial statement yet. Evidently it doesn’t
mean to get one out. It is being sued for
£1,754,762, which the Commonwealth paid
on its account to creditors whom it tried to
bilk —this being the first public bilk in Aus-
tralian history. It has on its hands the big-
gest bank smash in the continent’s record,
and the greatest number of unemployed ever
registered—though it promised to find Work
for All, and is collecting the stiffest unem-
ployed-relief tax ever imposed. It is even
trying to make N.S.W. people pay unemploy-
ment tax on income from other States.
But once or twice a week some Min-
ister stands up amid the ruins and intro-
duces a new bill for the reconstruction of
society, and at the week-end some other
Minister speeds to Victoria, Queensland or
South Aus. to tell the people there that they
will all be rich and happy if they compel
their State Administration to do as the Don’t-
Care-a-Hang Government is doing. If the
nous of this gang were only equal to its
nerve!
According to J. D. Merson, formerly sec-
retary to the Vic. Public Service Commis-
sioner, who has a passion for compiling
liquor-traffic statistics, 1803 Vic. hotel-
keepers contribute an average of £155 to
revenue in respect of the alcohol they pur-
vey, Liquor purchases for 1930, upon which
the 1931 fees are based, totalled £5,850,457,
of which the pubs contributed £4,657.210
and spirit merchants and grocers £823,775.
Merson maintains that the Health Depart-
ment’s action in legalising the dilution of
spirit will put £1,666,000 this year into
Bung’s cash-register.
In evidence before the N.S.W. Leg. Coiin-
cil’s select committee on the Arbitration Bill
a high railway official referred to the lessen-
ing of first-class passenger traffic —the first
public admission that the department has
noticed any difference. At rush hours on any of
the Sydney suburban lines the second-class car-
riages are crammed and the first-class nearly
empty. This has been the case for many
months, but there has been no reduction of
the number of first-class carriages. If
classes were abolished on suburban lines the
traffic could be carried with little more than
half the rolling-stock at present used.
Newfoundland is so broke that it can't
raise a loan and the banks have shut down
on it. The only alternatives mentioned
for the hapless island, with its population
of less than 300,000, are (1) to sell its
mainland dependency of Labrador to Quebec
(assuming Quebec can find a good lump
sum to pay for it), and (2) to come into
the Canadian partnership. Newfoundland
first bad that chance 64 years ago, and.
judging from its lack of any progress
since, in comparison with its neighbors on
the other side of the Straits of Belle
Isle, it never made a worse error than
the one it has so obstinately persisted
in. The reflection may be of value to some
outlying parts of the Commonwealth, which
grumble about the sacrifices they made by
losing their separate identity and never con-
sider how much they would have sacrificed
by preserving it, along with their isolation.
“The proposal is that compulsion should be applied
to holders of tax-free securities.” —- Premiers ’ con-
ference item.
PROFESSIONAL THU A (to offsider): “No, I
can’t touch him. I agreed not to rob
him if he gave me a quid; and he gave
it to mel”
OFFSIDER: “Gawd, that shows he’s worth
robbing. Come on, let’s get to him!"
“Blum”: While in Topsiturviland lately
I strolled into a public meeting just in time
to hear what was, to my Australian way of
thinking, one of the maddest speeches ever
made. I don’t know what the subject was.
but the speaker said it was so important
that the best brains of the community should
be exercised upon it. In only one place, he
continued, could they find the altruism neces-
sary to a proper decision. Under less lofty
auspices the administration of whatever
means were chosen to attain the end desired,
offering, as they would, opportunities of
party and personal advantage, might be
diverted from the public weal. The necessary
power could not safely be entrusted to any
save the representatives of the people. He
therefore advised that Parliament (here his
voice sank reverentially) should be urged to
take control. I waited for the laugh, but
none came; and it dawned upon me that the
man was speaking seriously. Remarkable
people, the Topsiturvians!


SOCIETY
and it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Clifford Snook”: The Inverclyde divorce
business is a shindy of the minor British
peerage, with a sniff of Yankee legal dodgery
to give it a flavor. He is only a baron, and
not an old-established one at that, the family
having started baroning in 1597. The pre-
sent Inverclyde was married in 1926, and
divorced the lady in 1928. He m’arried again
in 1929, and the second lady is applying for
a divorce in Nevada, a wild-cat member of
the United States which sells dissolution
of marriage on application, provided the
applicant has qualified by six months’ resi-
dence and consequently has _ spent some
money on the premises. It is a desolate
place, mostly alkali and cactus, and though
it ranks sixth among the 48 States of the
Union for size, it has a decaying population
of 77,000. or about oneAhird that of Tas-
mania. There is no heir to the greatness
of the Inverclydes, and the second wife
writes from her exile in the desert that there
will be none even if her lord and master,
now aged 34, marries 22 more wives. His
lordship has attempted a legal fuss over this
aspersion, but it seems hardly worth while.
sfc sjc • Jfc
“Taltingan” : Down on the Lower Darling,
below Menindie, 90 of our black and brindle
brethren have a reservation. One of the far-
flung Le Poer Trench family is in charge of
its school —a lady who doesn’t make a song
about having to walk over four miles from the
township to the camp night and morning.
Lately she gave her youngsters a lesson
about stamps, and found great difficulty in
getting them to understand what the wretched
little scraps of paper were for. Plainly they
were bored by the whole futile business. —
and, as a matter of fact, they are not easily
bored. A few weeks later Miss Trench
decided to check up her pupils’ knowledge;
and she got back on to stamps. Nobody
knew a thing about them. Well, but didn’t
PROBABLY CAUSED THE CONFLAGRATION.
“Hot frock you got on, Sis.”
“Sure thing. Came from a fire sale.”
they remember what-name this-pfella picture
on the stamp? It was shown closer. “That
pfella,” said one youngster—“name that
pfella Jesus Christ.” No, it wasn’t a pic-
ture of Christ. Who else could it be? Ah,
another had it—it was bi-i-ig Devil! No,
not the Devil either. Come on. think again;
they must know who that was! Of course
they did. Two hands shot up, and two
voices piped put simultaneously: “Gons’able
McAvoy.” Constable McAvoy is the mounted
man at Pooncarie, in charge of the reserva-
tion, dispenser of blankets and ’bacca and
the weekly rations, and therefore next in
importance to God and the Devil —if he
actually doesn’t beat them on points.
* * * . *
“X.N.0.”: “D.” is some way out in his
dates when he suggests that Venice was at
the height of her power 1000 years ago (B.
20/5/’3l). The fifteenth century saw Venice
on the meridian of her fame and with prac-
tically no naval rival. It was not till 1470
that the Turks cleared the Venetians out
of the iEgean. And even 1000 years ago the
Port of London was not held by marshmen.
Alfred the Great died in 901, and one of
the things he was concerned with was the
fortification of London, which he had re-
covered from the Danes.
“ Jungor”: Ned
Harney, the some-
ti m e Westralian
Senator and K.C.
who died last year
in England, where
he had won his
way into the
House of Com-
mons, had a bro-
ther, Frank, who
was a solicitor, an
enormously stout
man. After Ned
rose to eminence
Frank drifted away
to the outer gold-
fields, where he
practised until his
death. His vast
girth and avoirdu-
pois made him the
central figure of
many humorous
jests; “Harney's
Pinch,” a fairly
spacious aperture
in the Yallingup
Caves, commemo-
rates his name to
this day. Twenty-
five years ago, be-
fore Cobb and Co.’s
coaches had dis-
appeared from
W estralia’s out-
back, the man who
looked after the
booking of passen-
gers at Lawlers
flatly refused to
issue Harney a
ticket to Magnet
on the usual terms;
he pointed out that
the immense soli-
citor, took up two
men’s space or
more, and if he
didn’t like to pay .
for two tickets he could stay behind. The
proposition might have made a nice point
in law if it had been persisted in, but it
wasn’t; Harney threatened an action for
heavy damages unless his person was con-
veyed at ordinary rates, and the Cobb and
Co. man gave in. He had a deal of logic
on his side, for the decision meant the
sacrifice of a fare over a long stage; but if
a railway couldn’t charge a Daniel Lam-
bert double rates, I suppose a coaching com-
pany couldn’t do it either, without breaking
its own regulations.
* ❖
“Lab.-Nat.”: It’s a puzzle to me why
Bligh-street doesn’t follow Goulburn-street
to the Domain. The best part of 100,000
people must drift across Sydney’s famous
field of gas in the course of any fine Sunday
afternoon. Most of them seem to have open
minds and a sense of humor; in other words
they represent part of the silent vote which
is so much talked of whenever a general
election arrives. They have nothing to do
but listen, and no-
thing to listen to
but criticisms, often
very well done, of
all Conservatism
holds holy. On a
recent Sunday I
heard, in succession,
Donald Grant stir-
ring up hatred
against the country
he comes from; an
atheist getting roars
of laughter from
young and old on
the subject of the
Bible; and a young
woman comparing
Moscow with Syd-
ney, and making the
latter look a miser-
able place for the
poor by contrast.
There are answers
to all these gibes
and slanders. Why
can’t Bavin, Stevens
and the rest, instead
of pottering about
Croydon and Kil-
lara orating to the
already converted,
follow the recent
example of Beasley,
Eldridge and co. and
talk to the amuse-
ment-seekers of the
Domain? The
churches also have
an opportunity to
put up a dinkum
fight for Christian-
ity-in the only place,
so far as I know,
where it is publicly,
habitually and effec-
tively attacked. But
it would be folly for
either the Nats, or
the church authorities to send anv but
their best men. Despite the jokes at the
expense of the Domain’s soap-box ranters
these veteran skiters know all there is to
learn about the game of demagoguery and
to put up fledgling clerics or ingenuous
young Nat. speakers against them would be
to court disaster.
“Mells”: The classical quotations which
have fallen into so much disfavor in the
House of Commons that “a line of Horace
was received with derisive laughter the other
day” (B. 27/5/’3l) never had much vogue
in Australian legislatures. Yet there have
been exceptions. An old South Australian
squatter who knew Adam Lindsay Gordon
intimately once told me that the poet be-
wildered and annoyed his fellow-members
during his year or two in the Assembly in
the early ’sixties by the Latin lie dragged
into his speeches. Gordon’s Latin, as dis-
MATE FOR AGE.
“Do you take any interest in fossils?”
“Not unless they have money.”
closed in his poems, is pretty bad, and be
was the last man whom one would suspect
of trying to show off his educational attain-
ments, but he had grown up at a period in
England when the House of Commons
was full of Latinists and Grecians, aiid he
may have reckoned that even indifferent
Latin as a speech-spice was better than none
at all. Old Henry Briggs, an ex-school-
master who rose to be President of the
Westralian Legislative Council, is about the
only Parliamentarian I can remember who
threw his erudition about till it threatened
to become wearisome. He was probably a
sound enough scholar, but his pronunciation
was quaint, if not'out of date. Cui bonot
he once repeated several times about some
bill, giving the first word the sound of
“Cooee.” Then somebody unkindly referred
to him as “.Cooee Bono” Briggs, and his
classical tags grew less frequent.
“1.D.8.”: There can have been few in-
stances in financial history of several mem-
bers of the one family rising to immense
wealth from utter poverty in practically a
generation. Solly Joel and his two brothers,
with their uncle, Barney Barnato, turned
the trick. Barney got in early on Kimberley,
where his nephews later joined him, the
family then descending on Johannesburg.
Barney, who committed suicide by jumping off
a Castle liner at Madeira, was the first to re-
turn to England, where he reared himself a
lordly pleasure-house in Park-lane. There
is a yarn of his taking his nephews to look
at the place while it was being built. Said
one, “You’ll entertain largely, of course,
Uncle.” “Yeth,” said Barney, who harbored
no illusions, “if der blanks’ll come.”
* # ?• *
“M. de Paris”: It is interesting to note
that Ilenri Deibler, who for 51 years has
given universal satisfaction as executioner
of Paris, is retiring on a pension, after 242
subjects have met their deserts at his hands.
When, some 30 years or so ago, the French
decided to abolish capital punishment, this
particular member of the civil service was
necessarily retired, no other field for his
talent being available. His merits were
recognised, however, by the bestowal of a
substantial allowance, and when the guillo-
tine was again called into use Deibler was
immediately re-appointed. It has always
been customary in Paris to keep the honored
office in the family, if possible, but Deibler
having left no heirs, the job descends to his
son-in-law. The new executioner’s wife must
be about the first lady on record to have had
a father and a husband at the very top of
the profession.
* * *
“R. Volt”: Radio enthusiasts confidently
asserted even 20 years ago that metallic cir-
cuits would be soon as dead as the dodo.
The reverse has been the case. Radio in-
ventions, such as the thermionic valve and
the carrier wave, have given a new lease of
life to the land-lines. All Australian main
telegraph circuits now carry 10 to 100 times
their former amount of business, and it is
the use of various wireless gadgets that now
makes it possible for men in Perth to fib
over the ’phone to their wives in Brisbane.
It is quite possible that the present method
of broadcasting will be superseded, except
for country districts. Recently the Dutch
telephone people instituted a system whereby
the domestic hello instrument could _ be
switched to a loud speaker at a cost of 30s.
per annum, and nearly 50 per cent, of sub-
scribers have availed themselves of it. They
have the choice of programmes from four
broadcasting studios, and the absence of
static and other interference makes for con-
tentment.
St St St St
*‘Y. Beach”: Reports of the British
Legion conference in London contain a
somewhat cryptic reference by lan Hamil-
ton to Gouraud, who was a guest. Speaking of
the bearded Frenchman, who lost an arm on
the Peninsula, Hamilton remarked that an
even greater misfortune fell upon him when
an enemy shell blew up 23,000 bottles of
claret- Lest it be thought the General was
a mighty cellarman, it may be as well to
say that the wine was a dump of
“Van Rooge,” a pint of which is_ as
much a part of the French soldiers
daily ration as apricot jam used to < be
in the British Tommy’s issue. At the time
the happening was looked on by the suf-
ferers as an outrage only paralleled by the
shelling of Rlieims Cathedral.
* * 9 *
“X.S.”: Melbourne police are interpret-
ing the new orders about not giving infor-
mation to reporters as intelligently as they
did the contrary regulations, which they appa-
rently regarded as permitting them to take
the public into their confidence about any-
thing and everything via the daily press.
The other day a small motor-launch broke
down and carried its three occupants out
into the immensity of Port Phillip Bay.
Late that night relatives informed the police,
but, true to instructions, the force kept
its mouth firmly shut. The public did not
know the men were missing till two days
later, when they were spotted by the crew
of a Canadian steamer after being 50 hours
adrift.
“Sinnik”: According to the British
Registrar-General’s tables: —
Ten years ago bachelors used to marry widows
in one case out of 13; now it is only in one
out of 32.
The proportion is about the same wherever
girls have abandoned the technique employed
by man-hunters in the Victorian era. _lt
was always imsatisfactory. The tongue-tied
misses, all simpers and inhibitions, of the
long-skirt period never had a chance, other
things equal, in a stand-up fight with sophis-
ticated females such as widows, barmaids
and chorus-girls. Now flappers are as
sophisticated as widows, if not more so, and
barmaids and chorus-girls are practically
extinct. Statistics show that marriages
between peers or heirs to peerages and
actresses have decreased by nearly 50 per
cent, since the war, as compared with the
decade that preceded the war—meaning that
the girls of the Vere de Vere caste are beat-
ing the stage vamps at their own game.
if :|! * *
“F.S.”: I should imagine that one of the
worst venues for the public orator is the
guide lectureships at the Vic. National Gal-
lery. I found a distinguished painter func-
tioning in the position the other afternoon.
He was standing before the Australian sec-
tion expatiating on composition, color sense,
dynamic rhythm and all the rest of the mumbo
jumbo which makes art incomprehensible to
the layman and amuses the realist. He
had an audience of approximately six, but
from one moment to another it was never
the same six. Visitors came into the corri-
dor. observed with surprise an apparently
excited gentleman having an argument about
something with his companions, joined the
group, decided after a couple of minutes that,
there was no likelihood of a dogfight, and
passed on to enjoy themselves in front of the
Nellie Stewart portrait.
IN GEORGE-STREET NORTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In George-street North ’tis hard to sling
A rondeau upon anything;
There are few pleasant fancies come
Where traffic’s devastating hum
Persists from morn to evening.
The raucous yells around that ring
Where barrowmen their fruitage bring,
How they assail the tympanum
In George-street North!
The clatter of the trams that swing,
Monotonously clattering
Their clinky-clank and tumty-tum,
God! but you find it wearisome.
How can the gentle poet sing
In George-street North?
From George-street North ’tis hard to wring
A theme to make a minstrel spring
To lyre or harp or kettledrum;
It sort of makes a fellow glum,
This wintry local coloring.
The hustle for a crust is king,
And chasing Folly on the widg
Looks to be at a minimum
In George-street North.
But stay! This crowd seems game to fling
Behind it care, around it jing.
Our little Navy’s in, by gum!
And cheery calls to heartening rum
I hear the Jackies uttering
In George-street North.
N.S.w.
MIDFORD.


“S.T.S.”: Domestic drama in S. Aus. Act
1: A called at B’s house to take B’s daughter
to the pictures. B refused permission, and
there was what counsel delicately called
“further conversation.” (2) B woke up in
hospital, with a broken jaw. (3) A pleaded
in court that he had only used “reasonable
self-defence” after B started a fight; and the
jury acquitted him. It seems rather a pity
that Romeo never thought of taking this
line with Capulet senior.
if * if *
“Clerk”: One of the most complete dis-
appearances ever recorded in Vic. was that of
the inexperienced railway shift electrician
wdio vanished after a “flashover” in a sub-
station, shortly after the electrification of
the Melbourne railways, and who hasn’t
been seen or heard of since. A “flashover”
occurs when a rotary converter is short-
circuited. Although the thunderous ex-
plosion sounds like an earthquake, most
regular shiftmen know it to be quite harm-
less. The missing man, however, was on
duty alone, and for the first time, when the
terrific roar suddenly broke the cloistered
quietude of the sub-station. He disappeared
precipitately and utterly. Pay is still owing
to him, and his position on the technical
THE NOTES THAT MATTER.
“Why do men rave so about that woman? Why, Betty Black’s voice is much richer!”
“Yes —but Betty Black’s pa isn’t.”
staff remains unfilled; but he has never
returned.
* * * if
“Nakhoda”: “Bloggs” surprises me when
lie asserts that bad manners are the product
of poverty (B. 27/5/’3l). The most cour-
teous people I have met were the Czarist
Russians, 80 per cent, of whom were born
to poverty. Chinese suavity is proverbial,
and Javanese of all classes are remarkable
for the excellence of their deportment. The
boot is on the other foot. Poverty means
insecurity, and insecurity breeds fear, and
fear breeds subservience. If the poverty is
of long standing the distinction between rich
and poor becomes accepted and the social
code is crystallised so that behavior be-
comes habitual. The Javanese coolie is a
good example. He squats on the ground
when a superior passes, and even has a
special language for addressing him, the
nearest equivalent being Shakspearean Eng-
lish. It is when hope is rising, classes are
in a state of flux, and money is beginning to
percolate down to people hitherto accus-
tomed to do without it that forelocks cease
to be touched and so-called “natural” cour-
tesy vanishes. There is far more insecurity
iu Australia to-day than there was two years
ago, and the increase in politeness is obvious
to anybody who goes to a railway-ticket win-
dow, into a Government office or a drapery
store.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Melbourne is full of secret
societies which aim at saving the country
from enemies of the established order. Their
ritual includes accosting each other
with passwords in the best Tom
Sawyer manner. A member of
one of them went up to a friend
of mine in Collins-street the other
evening and whispered, “What’s
the hour?” accompanying the cryp-
tic utterance with a lowering of
the left ’eyelid. My friend looked
surprised, but glanced at his watch.
“By jove,” he cried, “it’s five to
six. Thanks, I don’t mind if I
do” ; and presently the conspirator
found himself inside a bar paying
for two drinks.
* if if
“Box”; There is at least one
Sydney jurist who is convinced
that “the apparel oft proclaims the
man.” One of his hobbies is gar-
dening, and while at work on a
flower bed in the earlier part of
the morning he was addressed by
a young woman just emerged from
the residence. “Are you the gar-
dener?” she asked. He conveyed
that he was an odd-job man about
the place. “What’s the old girl
like?” was the next question. “Oh,
she’s all right when you get- to
know her,” he answered. When
at breakfast next morning the new
housemaid saw the gardener of the pre-
vious day seated opposite “the. old girl” she
dumped the morning rashers and threw up
her hands in horror. She threw up her
job, too, without bothering to give a week’s
notice.
* * if :J:
“Grid”: Cabled that the “Isis,” Oxford's
oldest undergraduates’ paper, has said edi-
torially
Apart from Buenos Ayres, and the higher circles
of Chicago, there is a more constant high level of
intoxication at Oxford than anywhere else in the
world.
The wine clubs are to blame. The most
hardened toper couldn’t expect to go home
sober after an evening at, say, the King
Charles’s, in St. John’s, where a mighty
loving-cup goes round and completes the
work of the libations, that have gone before.
As a matter of fact it is bad form to leave
a wine club in the condition that you were
in when you arrived, and that goes for the
B.N.C. one, which prided itself on its mod-
eration in my time, and all the others. Yet
Oxford doesn’t turn out anything like the
same proportion of heavy drinkers as the
R.N., whcKfi one who gets under the weather
is regards'*-, with scorn and distrust. Drink-
ing is an expensive luxury at Oxford
—by the same token, the stuff is bad
as well, as dear —so it only occurs
on special. occasions; naval liquor is
good and dirt-cheap, and spotting goes on
all the time. That is why most sailors carry
their liquor well. I never knew an under-
grad. who did.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus” : Border warfare has broken
out at Albury, a deserted infant being the
cause of the disturbance. The unwanted
babe was left at the district hospital
by her parents, who subsequently van-
ished. The N.S.W. Child Welfare De-
partment repudiates responsibility because
it has been ascertained that the parents
were domiciled in Victoria. The Victorian
ditto puts the onus on the Ma State' because
the human flotsam was thrown up on the
shores of life on the N.S.W. side of the border.
In the meantime the child, which was sickly
at the beginning, is sucking more and more
vigorously at the breast of the M a State.
It seems to be a case for a Royal Commis-
sion. The only thing that admits of no
legal doubt is that the infant is an Aus-
tralian.
* * * *
“Cainscross”: One of the objections to
the abolition of capital punishment in
N. S. Wales comes from a class which cer-
tainly sees murderers at closer range thau
all the rest of us put together. These are
the prison warders, who have pointed out
in a letter to the Attorney-General that the
fear of death is the only check on the mur-
derous impulses of life-sentence men, to whom
dangerous tools are readily accessible, and
who have to be keenly watched lest they
assault their custodians. Such assaults are
unfortunately far from infrequent, and if
a hardened desperado, with no prospect of
ever regaining freedom, knew he could get
no more for killing a warder than for injur-
ing or maiming him, he would have no in-
ducement to stop short of doing so. It is
an objection that can hardly be dismissed
lightly, coming from such a source; if this
aspect of the case was not stressed before
IT’S MOMENTS LIKE THESE WE NEED A MINT—EH?-
“Fancy, they’re only 25s. a pair by the quarter-dozen, Hector!”
the Commission that investigated the
pros and cons of capital punishment m Eng-
land it was probably because convicts are
more closely guarded in the U.K., and there
are proportionately fewer “lifers” among
them.
* « * *
“Scrivener”: Newspapers directed to
Esthonia are beginning to be regarded with
suspicion at Sydney G.P.0., two of them
opened on the off-chance recently having
been found to contain silk, a prohibited
import in the Baltic republic. Probably a
deal of contraband of the lighter sort goes
from one country to another nowadays
secreted in innocent-looking newspapers.
The cost is negligible, and the department
prides itself on its reputation as a reliable
carrier of everything entrusted to. it. Even
stolen jewellery, bits of it at a time, might
be more secure travelling to a “fence”, in
an adjoining State inside half a dozen mailed
copies of the “Bungaree Banner” than in
a bank deposit safe.
“Shep” : Had “R.V. ’
seen what most Diggers
saw of the horse in
battle he wouldn’t class
as “shoddy sentiment”
(B. 30/5/’3l) the move
to include in Vic.’s
Shrine of Remembrance
some tribute to the nags
that did their bit.
A.I.F. men don’t forget
the ambulance horses
that dragged back their
human cargoes for days
on end from Pozieres
and Bullecourt, or the
mounts that made vic-
tory possible in Pales-
tine ; the horses that
ploughed through the
mud of Ypres, up to the
guns themselves, or
dragged their heavier
cargoes through the
nightly strafes that
swept the Menin-road.
It wasn’t “shoddy sen-
timent” when many a
driver openly wept at
losing a four-footed
cobber that had shared
his lot and hazards for
months or years, nor
was it solely to protect
army property that men
took risks they could
themselves have dodged
striving to get their horses out of danger,
ijc !>c !j! sis
“Ibn el Issar”: A Sydney poster heading,
“Lovers’ Death Pact,” recently woke up
memory of a happening which I heard of
years ago from a relative who had put in
much of his life in the Indian civil service.
In liis younger days it was part of his offi-
cial job to be present at executions. One
of these was a double event, a young wife
and her paramour being turned off together
for poisoning the lady’s aged husband. As
they were led out the' man asked the Sahib
if he might speak to the woman. The re-
quest was granted, and he said, “Think of
the old pipal-tree on the road to our village.”
The puzzled official later asked the native
gaoler the meaning of the adjuration. The
reply was that Hindu superstition held that
disembodied spirits always haunted the spot
they had in mind at the moment of dissolu-
tion. As a “love pact” that grim yet tender
happening should take some beating.
* * * *
“D.”: I have always regarded Horatio
Bottomley as the Grand Master of Anti-
Climax, most of his best war-time effects
being secured by references to the Creator.
Some of the publicity-hounds employed by
the talkies run him close, though, with Lurv
as a medium. Here’s one from Melbourne
“Herald” that is probably unbeatable in its
line:—
And then.... The .tremendous climax. ... She
that had mocked and scorned 10ve....n0w eagerly
seeking it... .willing to die dishonored to save her
eternal mate!
Ted Henkel conducting the orchestra, i
* * * *
“Crow’s Nest”: I remember attending a
fancy-dress ball at Government Hohse, Port-
of-Spain, Trinidad, when Sir Frederics
Broome was Governor, but I can’t say it
this was the occasion when his Ex. was
charged with seeing that no heeltaps of wine
were wasted (B. 20/5/’3l). There is no
doubt he was a great stickler for dignity.
A yarn current about him at that period
concerned his meeting, in Regent-street,
London, on one of his jaunts home, a man
who had not seen him since their univer-
sity days. “Hullo, Broome, old man!” ex-
claimed the other, clapping his old acquaint-
ance on the back. His Ex. straightened up.
“You are not aware, evidently,” he said
witheringly, “that I now have a handle to
my name.” “Hullo, Broome-handle, then,”
came the unabashed and apt retort.
* * $ *
“J.D.”: The psychological effect of the
strangulation of the N.S.W. Government Sav-
ings Bank is pronounced. Clients go into the
depopulated suburban offices as they might go
into a house of mourning. The aforetime
bright and cheerful clerks, now despondent
and subdued, put the stereotyped inquiry,
“Are you in dire need?” and the applicant
responds sadly in the affirmative. Handed his
dole he leaves on tiptoes. The clerks continue
their work in the gloom, sorrowful watchers
by the remains.
* , * * *
“Spokeshave” : A wealthy Toorakian, who
is a patron of the arts, gave a literary even-
ing at his home, and among the guests was
one of Australia's most prolific novelists.
Browsing round his host’s bookshelves, the
manufacturer of potboilers observed one of
his own works and drew it out with a pleased
comment. There was an awkward silence
while he turned over the pages ; then he was
suddenly seen to turn pale, and hastily
return the volume to its place. The owner
had written in the margins such comments
as “Good God!” “Tripe!” and “Is the man
an idiot?”
* * * *
“R.A.W.”: Surely the limit of the_ post-
war craze for societies and the like is
reached in the decision of “Melbourne men
paying maintenance” to form a Maintenance
Defence League. Their aim, according to
one of the founders, is to' seek relief from the
harassing conditions to Avhich they may be
subjected, particularly in the matter of in-
carceration at the will of vindictive help-
mates. An executive and office-bearers, it
is announced, are to be elected, but no men-
tion is made as yet of a weekly luncheon.
The formation of a “Maintenance Mainten-
ance Association” by the wives whose in-
terests are threatened seems to be the
natural corollary of the M.D.L.
* «: if *
“Ex Libris”: According to Sydney City
Librarian Bertie, the most accurate of ail
barometers for registering hard times and
unemployment is that contained in the
demand for books —lent books, not bought
ones. In June of last year the issue of books
from the Municipal Library suddenly jumped
by about 2000 a week, and apparently it
has been on the up-grade ever since. And
whereas in the pre-depression days there
were five times as many women looking for
books as men, the proportion is now exactly
the reverse. Probably every free reading-
room and mechanics’ institute in the country
could supply corroborative evidence.
S'! ❖ *
“X.S.”: An excuse popular with persons
summoned to sit on juries is deafness,
alleged or otherwise, but a man Avho pleaded
this disability at Vic. General Sessions the
other day was able to convince ’Sonali
without medical inspection. Asked to repeat
after the associate that he would true
answers give,” the proposed juryman said
that he would “two answers give.” Dis-
missed without further parley.
PLATITUDES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“‘I hate platitudes,’ said the Governor-General,
concluding a speech at the Millions Club, Sydney, in
one quarter of the time assigned him.”
And we concur, your Ex. But you
Must find it extra vexing
Who’ll have to hear (and say) a few
Before you’re through witli Ex-ing.
Still, many an eye I here declare
With gratitude should glisten
To know you have a thought to spare
For those who have to listen.
Trite aphorisms make me grieve,
They glut my soul with dolour,
And turgid commonplaces leave
A pain beneath my collar.
Withal I know, although you may
Account the view a glum one,
There’s little else for Govs, to say
Without offending someone.
There’s none can swell my scanty store
Of learning from his plenty
By hinting two and two are four
Or double ten is twenty.
For naked truths a man may search,
But parrot-like repeatings
Are apt to make him jib at church
And shy of public meetings.
I know that Heaven’s for the blest
And H'ell awaits the sinner;
Nor do I need it re-impressed
Before each Sunday’s dinner.
I know the Empire’s mine whereon
The sun will ne’er be setting
Until there comes a dies non —
No chance of my forgetting.
1 fairly loathe sententious tripe,
Those truisms with gildings
Celebrities are wont to pipe
When opening public buildings.
Of all the music of the chin
With which the world’s afflicted
1 think the worst is that they spin
Who can’t be contradicted.
Let all set speeches go to pot;
I scorn and spurn and scout them
And thank the Lord I haven’t got
With solemn face to spout them.
Out on the tiresome platitudes
Wherewith dull bores make play so—
Unless (the sudden thought intrudes)
Unless it’s one to say so.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m
ISct. Gold and platinum.
£l4/14/-
§mmam
18ct. Gold and platinum.
£l5/15/-
DIAMOND
RINGS
of faultless quality. . .
The wisdom of buying dia-
mond rings where you are
certain of securing definite
value will be apparent to all.
Fairfax and Roberts, Ltd., are
the oldest jewellery house in
Sydney, and offer diamond
rings of exclusive beauty and
faultless quality at pre-tariff
prices.
Remember these facts when
you are considering the pur-
chase of a diamond ring.
>• ;
18ct. Gold and platinum.
£l5/15/-
1
msi :
p&3
~~ j
18ct. Gold and platinpm.
£2O
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney »
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
g
Always Order
SCHWEPPES
DRY
GINGER
ALE
The Standard o f
Comparison through-
out the World.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
There are few Rhodes Scholars who have
cut much figure as yet in Australian Parlia-
ments ; but Thomas A. L. Davy, AVestralia s
Attorney-General, who accompanied his.
chief to the Premiers’ conference, is one
who lias come to the front pretty rapidly.
Davy, whose father Avas a well-known Perth
doctor, went to Oxford in 1909, and was
called to the English Bar before returning.
He served in France and India during the
war, and was a captain Ayhen it closed. He
won the West Perth seat in the Assembly
seven years ago, and has found no difficulty
in retaining it.
Minister Beckett, who is seeking re-elec-
tion for the Vic. Upper House on Saturday,
is the Labor Ministry’s best dresser, putting
very much in the shade financial-reformer
.Tones, who is a tailor. Bailey, the Lands
Minister, comes a close second to Beckett.
Phil Harris, Avliom the cable reports as
being at law with his wife for the custody
of his son, Avas a pioneer of Digger jour-
nalism during the war. He ran a ship-
board paper on one of the first transports,
established “Aussie” in France, and got it
going again in Australia. After selling out
his interest he went to live in Belgium; .he
had married a Belgian girl. Harris’s
father was founder and for years editor of
the “Hebrew Standard,” published in
Sydney.
The new Scout Commissioner in South
Aus. is to be Gratton, of Scotch College.
A Victorian by birth and training, he moved
over to Adelaide about 1916 as a St. Peter’s
master, and has been head of “Scotch” ever
since its start. His new appointment (which
Avill not interfere with his headmastersliip)
is to take effect as soon as the hard-working
S. A. White makes definite the retirement
of which he talked during Baden-Powell’s
visit.
Archdeacon Boyce, who died at Black-
lieath last week, aged 87, was the G.O.M.
of the Anglican Church in N. S. Wales. He
arrived from Devon with his parents as a
boy of 10, and after a few years in a Sydney
bank became a parson, concentrating imme-
diately on the two ideals which were to
absorb him for the rest of his days—prohi-
bition and Empire unity. He founded the
N.S.W. Alliance and the British Empire
The late Archdeacon BOYCE.
League, and though the one was never
extreme enough for him, and the second
got into the hands of self-advertising politi-
cians, he remained proud of them. Everybody
admired him, including the breAvers, publi-
cans and anti-imperialists whom he
attacked; perhaps because nobody could doubt
his sincerity. He married twice, and leaves
a Avidow and two sons, one of whom is the
Nationalist leader in the Leg. Council.
Maoriland has just lost a centenarian in
Henry Mason, who was born in Ireland in
1830 and at 21 sailed for Australia. He
was at Ballarat in the golden days, and
later went in for horse-dealing, principally
in Melbourne. He carried on this line for
30 years, shipping consignments to Auck-
land for Government use during the Maori
wars.
Tasmania’s little. University, owing' to
shortage of cash and the imminent variation
of the terms of the John Ralston Biology
benefaction, is seriously thinking of reduc-
ing the perch of Professor Thomson Flynn
to a mere lectureship. Flynn is on leave in
London, and the salary mentioned is unlikely
to tempt a scientist of his attainments to
remain in the minor post. It will be a pity
if the UniT loses the services of a scientific
investigator who has shown himself possessed
of skill, energy and vision. The professor
is a N.S.W. native and a Sydney Uni.
graduate.
DR. C. J. REAKES,
M.L. Director of
Agriculture.
Charles John
Reakes, Mao r i-
land’s Director of
Agriculture, is an
E n glishman
who got his
first farming
experience in
north - west-
ern Canada
as a young-
ster. He
then decided
to become a
vet., and graduated
at the R.V.C.,
London, at the age
of 27. After five
years’ private prac-
tice in his native
Kent he joined the
M.L. Agriculture
Department’s live-
stock division, and
in 11 years climbed
to the top. Since
then every change
made in organisa-
tion has pushed
It cakes a little bit
higher, until to-
day, at 66, he rules
over all the varied
activities of the
department. Mel-
bourne Uni. gave
him a doctorate of
veterinary science
some years ago.
Father Clancy,
of Innisfail
(N.Q.), who died
shortly after his
return from a visit
to Ireland —his only one since he came to
Australia —put in over 30 years at Innis-
fail, and saw it grow from a small tropical
settlement to what it is to-day. In addi-
tion to his church work he was identified
with nearly every public activity; he was a
member of the Chamber of Commerce, and a
recognised authority on land settlement and
development. A fine cathedral, several church
buildings and a conspicuous landmark,
Mt. Father Clancy, remain as monuments
to his memory.
The breezy Captain J. A. NeAvman has
thrown up his job as manager of Vie. abo.
station at Lake Tyers, Gippsland, after
having effected great improvements during
his two years of office, especially in the
matter of discipline. Newman was skipper
Of the training-ship John Murray when this
century was younger, and some of the lads
he licked into shape gave a good account of
themselves during the war.
Dead in Ireland, Major Arthur King,
originally of S. Aus. His 61 years were
divided thus: Born and educated (Prince
Alfred school) in Adelaide; commercial life
in India; service with Paget’s Horse in
S’Africa; service with the Munster Fusiliers,
leading up to the retreat from Mons; on
Gallipoli and with the Leinsters in Jeru-
salem; retirement in Ireland, with a heart-
failure ending, probably due to war-time
malaria.
Williamson Lackey Williamson, whose
“Curiosity Shop” has interested several gen-
erations of visitors to the Speck’s King-
ston Beach, passed out the other day
at 83. The little man’s collection of curios,
housed in an ancient weatherboard. cottage,
Avas the result of 60 years of gleaning on
land and sea, and he had a never-failing
flow of information concerning his exhibits.
But he probably collected as much wealth
from his 40-year-long job as caretaker of
the local jetty as from his sales of rare
shells, scarabs, bullet-riddled skulls, old
china, convict legirons, etc. Some of Bobby
Knopwood’s prayer-books and a silver-
mounted and engraved hoof of Babbler, a
moke once bestridden by Adam Lindsay Gor-
don, were among the old man’s treasures.
John Alfred Northmore, who looks like
becoming Westralia’s next Chief Justice,
was born in Adelaide 65 years ago. All his
predecessors in the billet have either been
locally-grown, like Parker and Stone, or
imported from England, like Onslow and
McMillan. Northmore, a St. Peter’s and
Adelaide Uni. product, was called to the
S.A. Bar in 1888, and admitted in W.A. in
1896, practising for a few years on the gold-
fields before he settled in Perth. He took
silk 20 years ago, and accepted a Supreme
Court Judgeship just before the war.
Eric Baum, who has been butchered
by natives not far from the Edie Creek
goldfields, was an adventurer out of the
common. When Avar broke out. Baum Avas
a German official at Morobe in New Guinea
proper, and with others Avas summoned to
surrender to the British. He refused to do
so and “took the hill,” as they used to say
in Scotland, remaining in the jungle-covered
mountains until lie heard that Germans
might return to the Mandated Territory.
During those years he lived among the
natives as one of them, eating native food
—his ammunition ran out early—and, after
his clothes had Avorn out, going unclothed.
It was an achievement that says much for
the man’s grit, and more for the esteem
in which he Avas held by the .many differing
tribes among whom he wandered so long.
To James Daniel Connolly, according to a
cable, Avas assigned the honor of presiding
as Judge in this year’s trial for the Dunmow
flitch; he is described as “a hot but imposing
figure in a full-bottomed wig and scarlet and
ermine robes.” Connolly has filled many rOles
since he footed it along the track to Cool-
gardie, a young bush carpenter and con-
tractor from Queensland, in the early
’nineties; he helped to build the Kal-
goorlic G.P.O. and the Palace Hotel,
climbed into Parliament, held office in
two pre-war Ministries, went to England
as Agent-General, and stayed there when his
term was up, though he has made several
trips to Australia since. Nowadays he is
Agent-General for Malta, among his manifold
activities. But in the wildest dreams of his
youth he can hardly haye featured himself
as the leading figure in a bit of historical
pageantry of the English countryside.
W. E. Adcock, just dead in Melbourne, at
84, had played many parts in an adventur-
ous life. He began as an actor in Mel-
bourne, but gold finds lured him away from
the stage. He took part in the first gold
rush to the Northern Territory, and became
a mine manager in Westralia. Adcock for-
sook mining to become editor of the “Aus-
tralian Journal” in Melbourne, and resigned
to take up the development of the mica
industry, getting the raw material from
North and Central Australia.
Mark Anthony Davidson, Lang’s Minister
of Works, has knocked round a lot in his
threescore-odd years. A Sydney native, he
went to sea as a deckhand on a coastal
boat, tried shearing on the Monaro', mining
in Victoria, bush work all over western
N. S. Wales, and mining again at Cobar;
there he lost the sight of his right eye.
Friends helped him then to start a small
business; and in 1918 they sent him to the
N.S.W. Assembly. For eight years he was
the party’s Whip, and for 13, off and on, he
has been in arguments—he is having one
now with Federal Minister and fellow-
unionist Blakeley.
William Grazebrook Layton, who retires
from the Town Clerkship of the Sydney City
Council with an honorarium equal to 12
months’ salary, in addition to other allow-
ances and a tribute to his merits from every
alderman, even Garden, was born in Brisbane
a bit over 60 years ago. He joined the service
as a junior clerk in 1885, climbed upwards
W. G. LAYTON, who retired last week.
He had been Sydney’s Town Clerk
since 1924.
steadily and succeeded Thomas Nesbitt,
Manxman and writer of voluminous dossiers,
who held the job for 23 years, in 1924. The
Council will mis? Layton; his efficiency is
the only subject on which Civic Re-
formers and Laborites have registered entire
agreement since the faction-torn body came
into existence.
Frank Clarke, President of Vic. Legis-
lative Council, and his brother Bussell,
M.L.C., are facing the electors again on
Saturday. Bussell Clarke enlisted as a
gunner in the A.1.F., though he could have
had a soft job if he had cared to pull strings,
and Frank would have enlisted also but for
a game leg.- They haven’t spent much of
their lives aAvay from Melbourne and hard
FRANK CLARKE, president of the Vic.
Leg. Council, who has a Labor opponent
for the Melbourne South seat.
Avork, though as descendants of the first
Clarke baronet they have plenty of money
to loaf on. Frank is one of. Victoria’s lead-
ing authorities on rose-growing and garden-
ing generally. Both are pillars of the Mel-
bourne Club.
Ernest Tristram Crutchley, who looked
after the interests of British immigrants to
these parts and is now, pending selection of a
High Commissioner, representative of Down-
ing-street at Canberra, is 53 and the son of
a naval commander. Before the war he was
an assistant surveyor in. the P.M.G.’s depart-
ment, and he served with the Army Postal
Corps. Followed a period with the Ministry
of Transport and another at Dublin, on the
Chief Sec.’s staff. H'is next move was to the
Overseas Settlement Department of the
Dominions Office, which sent him this way
three years ago. In his lighter moments
Crutchley has written a musical comedy,
“The Purple Emperor,” which was staged in
London, and he is a keen bridge-player and
golfer.
“Lex”: Unlike pugilists, great K.C.’s
always come back. On this principle Sir
John Simon is leading for the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment before the Privy Council in the
Legislative Council abolition matter. Simon
formally i*etired five years ago, having, it
is understood, amassed one of the greatest
fortunes in the history of the Bar. He
is a tall, shambling, dark-eyed, Avhite-liaired
man who has the best legal brain and one
of the clearest minds in England. There is
nothing spectacular about him, which .is
why he has always shone before the Privy
Council, where argument is conducted in
the conversational manner of a quiet club.
For the same reason he has been a compara-
tive failure in Parliament —a failure in the
sense that he has never led a party and
never will lead one.
“Goya”: Solly Joel, who has died at New-
market, where he owned Moulton Paddocks,
passed' from the pariah state in London to
that of a popular idol and social favorite
inside a quarter of a century. Money, an ami-
able nature and success as a racing-owner
were responsible. He was not only one of
the two richest men in England (his part-
ner Jack Joel being the other) ; he was
one of the richest men on earth. Lord
Castlerosse, who knew him, ■ put his for-
tune down at £20,000,000 in a recent “Daily
Express” article. Solly was an uneducated
JeAV, who arrived in the City towards the
end of last century with the poorest of
reputations, yet such was his financial genius
that he multiplied the millions left ■ him by
his father Joel Joel and Barney Barnato, his
uncle, over and over again. H'is children
were a disappointment to him ; otherwise he
met with few reverses in his adventurous
life.


THE f
.<s»*&* *
RU« *
Write to-day for the "Guinea
Rug and you will receive by
return a beautiful Rug, made of
Pure Australian wool in handsome
light or dark patterns. A real
country rug, serviceable, warm
and useful- Finished with long
frinaes. Easily
the best value in
Australia to-day.
21/
Send your order to Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street *
Brisbane
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,090,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - -- -- -- - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
The camouflage of carefree mirth displayed
When eager youth pursues a laughing maid
Is but a phase of life’s alluring plan—
Love means far more to woman than to man.
Maternal impulse dominates her will,
The comfort of her loved ones to assure —
For coughs arid colds prompt aid awaits her still
In priceless Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure— Adyt.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital ...
Reserve Fund and
Profits
Undivided
£6.858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Busmen
conducted.
The WILD CAL
COUMN
Colonial Mutual Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Off. Funds.
£,£>£*£/ £*
1900.. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 42,198
1905.. 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
1920.. 880,031 344,660 144,684 4,303 386,384
1922.. 972,331 446,662 154,156 4,283 367,230
1923.. 481,770 164,880 1,817 393,743
1924.. 513,690 196,823 9,723 403,645
1925.. 689 568,113 226,659 2,047 ) ... R7ft
Superannuation Fund, £ 13,000 .. ) ’
1926.-1,428,152 591,843 242,131 2,875 ) 590 003
Superannuation Fund, £l3OO .. ) ’
1927.. 1.509.097 621,418 270,181 3,494 ) 704
Superannuation Fund, £l3OO ..J ’
Policies of Mutual Life Co. of N.Y. taken over.
1928.-2,053,802 679,124 271,763 3,779 ) , no 7 R , fi
Superannuation Fund, £l3OO .. j ’ ’
1929.. 1.791.046 810,954 290,883 4,583 ) 683,626
Superannuation Fund, £lOOO .. j
1930.. 1.903.314 951,986 314,949 3,870 ) 509
Superannuation fund, £lOOO ..j ’
It was a year of mixed results. An extra
£259,160 of new Ordinary business was
written (£7,072,903), but there was a slip
of £368,053 in the Industrial figure
(£2,046,135). That was because Industrial
business is confined to Australasia, whereas
about one-third of the Ordinary income is
gathered in S. Africa, Britain and Maori-
land. However, the spring in income from
all sources (£2.582,536) was £157,207, of
which £112,224 was from premiums
(£1,964,186) and £44,983 from interest, etc.
(£618,350). The net addition to total funds
(£12,960,065) was £824,837, or £181,944 less
than for the previous year. That was due
mainly to heavier claims, swollen by sur-
renders (£164,267 as against £111,141 in
1929), and to taxation, which has affected
bonuses.
Nevertheless, there was an increase in
the surplus available for distribution
amongst policy-holders:— ’
Net surplus:- 1927 ’ 1928 ‘ 1929 ‘ 1930 '
Ordinary . . £380,933 £399,336 £403,338 £433,607
Industrial . . 80,480 89,424 96,857 96,578
Accident .. 7,536 12,572 16,591 16,823
In the Ordinary department £428,482 as
against £400,524 in 1929 is to be scattered
in bonuses. But taxes vary widely in
the different spheres of operation, thus affect-
ing net interest earnings. So, to ensure
equitable distribution, bonuses have been
scaled according to the growth in Govern-
ment levies. Thus in S. Africa, where the
tax paid is negligible, the year’s bonus addi-
tions to policies range from 465. per cent, on
contracts less than five years old to £5 per
cent, on those 45 years or more in force.
The reduction on these maximum rates is
2s. sd. per £1 of bonus in Australia, Is. 7d.
in Maoriland and Is. 3d. in the British
Isles.
In the Industrial section £95,000 of the
year’s surplus has been added to the con-
tingency reserve, raising it £175,000. The
idea is to provide for the reinstatement of
policies which .might otherwise lapse because
their owners are unable to pay premiums at
the moment. Only policies which become
claims during the year arc to receive bonus
additions: these will be on the old scale
of from 20s. to 50s. per cent.
It is- assumed that the funds will return
3| p.c.; last year they turned in £5 Os. lid.
net compared with £5 9s. lOd. in 1926. The
prbposal to reduce the gross return on Gov-
ernment securities in the .Commonwealth
by 224 p.c., by a wholesale conversion into
4 per cents., and generally to bring
down interest rates, must, of course, mean
a substantial cut in the society’s Australian
bonuses. Much will depend upon the extent
to. which exes, can be pulled back. They took
22.8 p.c. of last year’s Ordinary premiums
as against 22.5 p.c. in 1929.
The way in which the funds are placed
are seen in the next table:—
1929. 1930.
Public securities p.c. p. c.
and debentures £6,448,339 52.4 £6,732,616 51.3
Mortgages.. .. 2,447,667 19.8 2,953,505 22.5
Freeholds . . . . 1,551,335 12.6 1,487,521 11.3
Loans on policies 1,065,957 8.8 1,329,104 10.1
Premiums and in-
terest outstanding 334,223 2.7 380,273 2.9
Cash and deposits 371,811 3.0 161,714 1.2
Other assets .. 82,338 .7 89,920 .7
The year’s spare money went mainly into
mortgages, public securities and loans on
policies—the latter increased by £263,147.
Mortgages can be expected to figure more
prominently in the future.
The 22-year-old Industrial section of the
business has developed in this way:—
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1918 .. 155,253 20,158 50,595 264,121
1920 .. 211,184 14,156 65,030 493,224
1922 .. *251,453 43,962 77,718 744,410
1924 .. 340,929 79,436 128,337 1,007,029
1925 .. 390,572 93,834 143,016 1, , .c.
Superannuation Fund, £6500.. J ’ ’
1926 .. 448,495 133,349 155,139 ) x 313 607
Superannuation Fund, £650 .. J ’ ’
1927 .. 484,272 187,208 164,060 1 n ... qfil
Superannuation Fund, £650 ..) ’ ’
1928 .. 534,140 150,570 180,561 ) x 6 48 320
Superannuation Fund, £5O .. ) ’ ’
1929 .. 587,221 89,372 185,272 ) 1 9 - 9 997
Superannuation Fund, £9OO .. ) ’ ’
1930 . . 631,293 209,684 237,613 1 2 143 093
Superannuation fund, £9OO .. j ’ ’
There was a spring of £31,381 in the year’s
net premiums (£529,876). Excluding £53,184
written off securities, exes, made off with
34.6 p.c. of the net premiums as against 37.1,
36.9, 38.9 and 40.6 p.c. back to 1926. The
nursing service, which has cost about £43,000
over the last nine years, has been very help-
ful in widening goodwill.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and Co.
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Feb., 1922..21,718 12$ p.c. = 15,750 5,968 33,549
Aug., 1922..21,298 12$ „ „ 15,750 5,548 39,097
Feb., 1923.-21,643 124 „ „ 15,750 5,893 44,990
Aug., 1923. .22,398 124 „ ~15,750 6,648 51,638
Feb., 1924. .22,619 12j „ ~15,750 6,869 58,507
Aug., 1924.-22,694 124 „ „ 15,750 6,944 65,451
Feb., 1925. .23,207 124 „ ~ 15,750 7,457 72,908
Aug., 1925. .25,291 124 „ ~15,750 9,541 82,449
Feb., 1926. .25,347 124 „ ~15,750 9,597 92,046
Aug., 1926.-28,446 15 ~ „ 18,900 9,546 101,592
Feb., 1927.. 28,316 12$ „ „ 15,750 12,566 114,158
Aug., 1927.-28,378 12$ „ „ 15,750 12,628 126,786
Profit on sale of property, £52,671 .. 179,457
Feb., 1928. .28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500 176,904
Aug., 1928..26,918 12$ „ „ 15,750 11,168 188,072
Profit on sale of property, £8665 .. 196,737
Feb., 1929. .28,503 12$ p.c. = 15,750 G 0 ,753 207,490
Staff fund, £2OOO . . .. ) ’
July, 1929. .24,071 22$ p.c. = 28,350 203,211
Jan., 1930. .29,016 15 „ „ 18,900 ) Q - 1R q 97
Staff fund. £lOOO .. .. j 9 ’ 116 212,3/17
July, 1930..22,285 12$ p.c. = 15,750 6,535 218,862
Jan., 1931..21,437 12$ „ „ 15,750 5,687 224,549
This prosperous Sydney co. runs a chain of
retail drug stores, manufactures much of
its own requirements, and is able to buy
on a wholesale basis. It amalgamated
the Washington H. Soul and Pattin-
son business in 1902; the amount paid for
goodwill was small, and some of the free-
holds were picked up cheap. With these
advantages and good management the div.
climbed to in 1913. Over the next
six years £102,000 of bonus scrip was scat-
tered, raising paid capital to its present
figure—£2s2,ooo. The div. has since been
kept at 12i p.c., sweetened at intervals with
cash bonuses; thus the average distribution
for the decade to Jan. 31, 1930, was 15 p.c.
Meanwhile the margin between earnings and
distributions widened, and, with £61,336 of
profit on property sales, reserves equal to
17s. lOd. per share had accumulated at the
close of last accounts.
For the 12 months to that date the busi-
ness appears to have held remarkably well,
despite generally depressing circumstances,
including price recessions _ and sharper com-
petition. There was a slip of £8364 in the
net result, which was 17.3 p.c. on capital
compared with 22.9, 22, 22.7, 22.5, 20.1 and
18.2 p.c. back to 1925. So the 12£ p.c. div.
remained a comfortable matter. Though the
future is uncertain the co. is so well ribbed
financially that shareholders’ prospects
remain bright.
80 far as can be seen surplus earnings
have been invested mainly in Government
securities. These figured at £177,170 at the
close of accounts; their conversion into the
proposed 4 per cents, is not likely to affect
the present rate of div., provided the return
from trading can be maintained. Here are
balance-sheet figures:—
Feb., Feb., Jan., Jan.,
1921, 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £252,000 £252,000 £252,000 £252,000
Liabilities .. 34,684 48,228 50,253 37,222
Premises, stocks,
plant, etc... 282,819 149,169 181,157 169,955
Book debts, etc. 10,445 144,007 166,741 159,185
Govt, securities 14,709 210,055 175,170 177,170
Cash, etc. .. 17,986 12,772 20,782 23,584
Shares in other
cos. . . 9,308 3,630 3,630 13,628
Thus at the close of accounts shareholders
could see the whole of their capital, and
£70,717 besides, in surplus liquids (£322,717),
which were strengthened by £10,277 during
the year. The formation of Soul, Pattinson
(Laboratories), Ltd., registered in Sep-
tember last with a nominal capital of
£lO,OOO, probably had something to do with
the growth in the shares item and reduction
in freeholds.
The scrip fetches 40s. in the market as
against 455. a year ago. At the lower figure
the return is 6.2 p.c. on a p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing is 375. lOd. in
net tangibles.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 9,039 9,039 9,039
1923.. 11,092 11,092 20,131
1924.. 10,603 10,603 30,734
1925.. 15,207 0 p.c. s 5361 9,846 40,580
1926.. 15,811 7 „ „ 6295 9,516 50,096
1927.. 18,145 7 „ „ 6312 11,833 61,929
1928.. 21,271 7 ~ „ 6452 14,819 76,748
1929.. 17,264 7 „ „ 6522 10,742 87,490
1930.. 13,996 7 „ „ 6568 7,428 94,918
1931.. 12,642 7 „ „ 6568 6,074 100,992
This robust youngster hung up its name-
plate in Sydney 10 years ago. The business
has since spread over all the Australian
States, north to Asia and the East Indies,
and out over the South Sea Islands. Also
there is an office in London, where the co.
pulled out of the unsatisfactory marine busi-
ness a couple of years ago; and there was
another in Montreal, but it was closed last
year owing to the co.’s unsatisfactory experi-
ence in Canada.
This, the general shrinkage in values,
lighter stocks carried by merchants, smaller
pay-rolls, another cut in workers’ compensa-
tion rates and the disturbed condition of
Asia brought about a sharp drop of £34,141
in last year’s net premiums:—
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1922.. £22,358 £7,605 £8,884 34.0p.c. 39.7p.C.
1923.. 40,049 18,240 15,583 45.5 „ 38.9 „
1924.. 58,442 33,296 20,172 56.9 „ 34.5 „
1925.. 73,375 41,052 23,940 55.9 „ 32.6 „
1926.. 97,486 55,048 33,890 56.5 „ 34.7 „
1927.. 132,600 85,683 36,392 64.6 „ 27.4 „
1928.. 157,422 96,737 48,348 61.4 „ 30.7 „
1929.. 176,229 113,991 55,507 64.7 „ 31.5 „
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 65.9 „ 32.3 „
1931.. 138,729 82,066 55,261 59.1 „ 39.8 „
Losses were £32,033 lighter; but costs were
stubborn. Thus the management squeezed a
surplus of only £1402 out of the year’s
underwriting as against £2911 for the pre-
vious term. The spring in the expense rate
was the inevitable result of the contraction
in premiums.
Interest and rents, however, turned in
£11,240, equal to 11.9 p.c. on capital. So,
despite the very poor underwriting result,
the 7 p.c. div. presented no difficulty. From
the start the aim has been to attract busi-
ness by offering security; hence more atten-
tion has been given to strengthening the
foundations than to dividends; a policy with
which discerning shareholders will not quar-
rel. At March 31 the £93,825 of paid capi-
tal was entrenched behind £100,993 of
reserves, including £65,000 earmarked for
unexpired risks.
The lot, together with £93,825 of un-
called capital, provides the protection for
policy-holders. This was enough to sup-
port over one-third more business than was
written last year. The reserve for unexpired
risks alone was 46.8 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, or nearly £lO,OOO more than is
usually considered adequate. Also assets
are as satisfactory as any assets look
these days. At the close of accounts they
comprised Government securities, £121,972;
cash, £43,537; book debts, £29,983; free-
holds, £74,041. There was £68,150 coming
to creditors, including something for con-
tingencies.
Government securities, which include some
British and Canadian paper, and fixed depo-
sits and freeholds need turn in only 2.9
p.c. on their aggregate book value to cover
a 7 p.c. div. on capital as it now stands.
The 10s. paid shares, which have a net tan-
gible backing of 20s. 9d., are not listed.
Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay’s), Ltd.
Writ- Re-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£. £ £ £
Dee.,’23.. 49,806 10 p.c. => 25,000 458,986
Written off plant, etc., £198,171.. 260,815
June,’24.. 32,195 10 p.c. = 25,000 41,439 226,571
Dec.,’24.. 21,746 19 „ „ 25,000 223,317
June,’2s.. 21,255 10 „ „ 25,000 219,572
Written off plant, etc., £99,583.. 119,989
Dec.,’25.. 28,383 Nil 148,372
Capital reduced to £200,000 by
returning 12s. per share ( £300,000)
in Electrolytic Zinc scrip.
June,’26.. 31,406 10 p.c. = 25,000 1,074 153,704
Dec.,’26.. 10,746 8 „„ 8,000 - 156,450
June,’27.. 12,157 8 „ „ 8,000 160,607
Dec.,’27.. 13,554 8 „„ 8,000 166,161
June,’2B.. 10,105 8 ~ „ 8,000 168,266
Dec.,’2B.. 15,788 8 „„ 8,000 176,054
June,’29.. 5,936 8 „ „ 8,000 173,990
Dec.,’29.. 10,067 8 „ „ 8,000 176,057
June,’3o.. 6,829 8 ~ „ 8,000 174,886
Dec.,’3o.. 7,372 8 „ „ 8,000 174,258
This is the co. which took over the zinc-
flotation business of De Bavay’s Treatment
Go., Ltd., at Broken Hill for £255,000 in 1909.
Until April 5, 1924, it bought and treated
the tailings and dump slimes of various
Broken Hill cos. under contract. After that
the plant was sold, and nearly £340,000 of
reserves were rubbed out to square the
accounts.
It is an absorbing history. Litigation soon
arose between the De Bavay cos. and
Minerals Separation, Ltd., over simi-
larity of patents. The outcome was the for-
mation of Minerals Separation and De
Bavay’s Processes, Australia, Pty., Ltd.,
in 1912, which took over the Australasian
rights to both cos’, patents. The concentrates
were sold to European (mainly Belgian and
German) smelters for final treatment. In
1915, following the outbreak of war, m
combination with the principal liroken
H’ill cos., Amalgamated investigated P ro '
cesses for the electrolytic treatment ot
zinc concentrates and the production ot
high-grade spelter; the formation ol
the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia fol-
lowed in May, 1916, and works were
erected at Risdon (Tas.). Amalgamated was
the principal shareholder with 240,000 °rds..
subsequently increased to 300,000. lhis
proved a sound and remunerative invest-
ment.
In 1919 the North put in its own zinc
flotation plant, and made its last delivery
of zincy tailings to this co., whose working
life at the Barrier soon came to an end ; but
the last of the zinc concentrates were not
realised until 1930.
Capital had remained unchanged at
£500,000 since 1910; in 1925 it was
reduced to £200,000 in Bs. shares by
handing shareholders the 300,000 ords.
in Electrolytic Zinc. Assets at Dec. 31 last
consisted of shares in other cos., £163,630 ;
Government securities, etc., £129,953;
deposits, etc., £106,721. The share holdings
were as follows :
Paid Book
Holding. Up. Value.
Minerals Separation Co. . . 83,250 £1 £83,250
„ „ . 36,000 15/- 27,000
Tasmanian Paper .. .. 50,000 £1 50,000
Barrier Roaster Co. .. 10,000 £1
Mining and Met. Proc. • • 10,000 4/- 2,000
Metals Prospecting Syn. . . 3,600 12/- 420
Zinc Producers’ Assoc. .. 960 £1 960
£163,630
Most interest now centres in the holding in
Tasmanian Paper Pty., formed in 1927, and
controlled by Amalgamated. _ Australian
Paper Manufacturers, Electrolytic Zinc and
North Broken Hill are also interested. A
test plant in the Huon Valley (Tas.) has
given very encouraging results, and most ot
the technical problems in the manufacture
of newsprint are claimed to have been over-
come. A capital of £1,500,000 has been men-
tioned, but a start will be contingent on
assistance being granted by the Federal Gov-
ernment. The whole proposition has been
hung on the peg for spme time owing to
unfavorable financial conditions. Develop-
ments would be hastened if Paper Makers,
Ltd., a similar co. headed by Gerald Mussen,
working in the north of the Speck, and Tas-
manian Paper Pty, were to join forces. This
and Government support of the industry
has been strongly recommended by the com-
mittee of experts appointed by the Federal
Government to inquire into the scheme.
The Bs. shares are backed by net assets
with a book value of 155., subject to in-
tangibles in shares in other cos. Surplus
liquids amount to Bs. 9d. a share. Income
for the year to Dec. 30 last was £21,496
(interest, etc., £12,859; divs., £8637). The
net profit was £14,201, being £1799 short of
the 8 p.c. div. requirements. The holding-
in the Minerals Separation makes immediate
earnings largely dependent upon the silver-
lead industry. The scrip is at 9s. 6d. on the
market, returning 6.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 12,140 10 p.c. = 8,491 3,649 86,244
1922.. 11,382 10 „ ~10,000 1,382 87,626
Surplus from sale of property 3,750 91,376
1923.. 23,640 15 p.c. = 15,000 8,640 100,016
1924.. 25,405 15 „ ~ 15,000 10,405 110,421
New share premiums . . 12,500 122,921
1925.. 32,834 15 p.c. = 22,500 10,334 133,255
1926.. 28,598 15 „ „ 22,500 6,098 139,353
1927.. 30,484 15 „ „ 22,500 7,984 147,337
Premiums on shares .. 75,000 222,337
1928.. 41,762 15 p.c. = 33,958 7,804 230,141
1929.. 52,141 15 „ ~ 37,500 14,641 244,782
1930.. 29,064 12$ „ „ 31,250 242.596
1931.. 1,181 7s„ ~ 18,750 225,027
Whether the result of the year’s trading was
as poor as the board said it was depends
upon whether the provision for contingen-
cies, which was apparently greater than
usual, proves to be more or less than is
needed. The business was well maintained,
despite indifferent seasonal conditions early
in the term; but there was a steep fall in
livestock and produce prices. The. Austra-
lian average for the ten months to April 30
was £ll Is. 7s. pe* bale for wool as against
£l3 ss. 9d. and £2l 11s. lOd. for the two
preceding seasons respectively. Clearances
(91,587 bales, including 25,711 from the
previous clip) were a record, being 32,792
ahead of the previous year’s.
Still, commission earnings were lighter,
and the board put gross profits £36,845 short
of the 1930 figure:—
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1923.. 68,106 £93,487 £69,847 74.7 p.c.
1925.. 39,242 107,812 74,978 69.5 „
1926.. 73,562 108,061 79,463 73.5 „
1927.. 71,137 113,215 82,730 73.1 „
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 „
1929.. 76,732 142,369 90,228 63.4 „
1930.. 58,795 114.864 85,800 74.6 „
1931.. 91,587 78,019 76,838 98.4 „
Exes, were pulled back £8962, leaving the
declared net result at less than half of 1
p.c. on capital compared with 20.8, 18.4,
(Continued on page 16.)


THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES of the Directors’ Report as presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING
Held on WEDNESDAY, 20th MAY, 1931, at 2.30 p.m.
ANOTHER RECORD YEAR
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT
New Life Assurances, business transacted
Addition to Life Assurance Fund (total now £ 10,572,969) . .
Total Income for the Year
Claims by Death (Death-rate low —only about 71 per cent, of
expectation) . .
Bonuses (every year a bonus year). Net Surplus for the Year
£7,100,941
631,747
1,936,647
412,970
433,607
This is the largest surplus for any one year in the Society’s
history.
All Members of 35 years’ standing who within last year reached the age of
80 years are exempted from the payment of any further premiums.
COMBINED ORDINARY, INDUSTRIAL AND
ACCIDENT DEPARTMENTS
57,582
£10,514,824
2,626,759
660,700
12,960,065
New Policies issued during the year
Assuring
Total Income for the Year 1 930 . .
Interest Income
Total Funds at 31st December, 1930
The society is wholly mutual, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the
Policyholders only.
Last year’s operations returned surpluses for the year over claims, expenses and provision
for the growing liability of Policy Contracts to the following extent: —
SURPLUSES FOR THE YEAR, £547,007
These surpluses are after writing off £lOO,OOO for possible depreciation of
investments.
Contingency Reserves (in addition to all actuarial reserves) were increased by
£95,000 to £315,000
Policies in the Ordinary Department exceed 100,000. Those in the Indus-
trial Department exceed 220,000. In all an army of over 320,000
an impressive combination.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render unexceptionable and unexcelled
service to the assuring public.
DIRECTORATE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P., Chairman; Senator the Hon. H. S. W. LAWSON;
C. J. HENDERSON, J.P.; GEO. E. EMERY, C.M.G., J.P.;
General Sir HARRY CHAUVEL, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A., A.1.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Secretary.
CHARLES E. MELVILLE, Manager.
LOCAL BOARDS OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS.
BRANCH OFFICES:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Chairman: The Hon. BRUCE SMITH. K.C.,
R. M. PITT, Sir KELSO KING, K.B.
Resident Secretary: C. B. HEARN, A.C.I.S.
Consulting Medical Officer: R. MAITLAND GLEDDON,
F.R.C.S., Edin., L.R.C.P.
NEW ZEALAND:
Custom House Quay, Wellington.
Chairman: GERALD FITZGERALD. ALEXANDER
MACINTOSH. The Right Hon. Sir FRANCIS BELL,
P.C., G.C.M.G., K.C. C. J. S. lIARCOURT.
Consulting Medical Officer: ERNEST WILLTAM GIESEN,
M. 8., 8.5., London.
Resident Secretary: A. H. JOHNS, A.I.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
1C Waymbuth Street, Adelaide.
Brigadier-General G. H. DEAN.
Medical Director: C. T.. C. de CRESPIGNY,
Resident Secretary: R. B. ASHE.
F.R.O.P.
QUEENSLAND:
289-291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
JOHN E. TRUDE.
Medical Director: Dr. S. F. McDONALD, M.R.C.P.
Resident Secretary: F. H. IRONSIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
53 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
11. B. JACKSON, ICC.
Medical Director: D. M. McWHAE, M.R.C.P
Resident Secretary: A. G. COLCLOUGH.
WITH BRANCH OFFICES ALSO IN GREAT BRITAIN AND SOUTH AFRICA.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard ot Quality throughout tho Empire.
ivronobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ƒ
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
# # * *
The extreme durability and wonderful efficiency of
Pioneer Wood Pipe has been demonstrated over and
over again. Its low initial cost, and the fact that
it is absolutely non-corrosive are further points that
should be considered by those responsible for such
undertakings as water supply. Write for full
particulars to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd:,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
4tm
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career now. ' .
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1873.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq .
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the . World,. this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
-20.3, 19.1 and 21.9 p.c. back to 1925. Never-
theless, the final div., which was at the
rate of 10 p.c. p.a., was double the interim
payment, making 7* p.c. for the year, though
visibly reserves had to be dipped into for
£17.569 to do it.
Earnings on the same scale as of recent
years cannot be expected. But 10 p.c. on
capital as it now stands —the last £lOO,OOO
was put out at a premium of 75 p.c.—will
call for only 5.3 p.c. on total funds (capital
and reserves combined), and that should not
be beyond the co.’s reach, given normal sea-
sons. The immediate danger lies chiefly in
advances made on the basis of values of a
year or two ago. At the moment some
clients are finding it difficult to meet their
commitments, but there is promise of relief in
interest rates. Mostly, however, pastoralists
are able to balance on the right side with
wool prices and exchange as they are. The
outlook in the wool market has lost much
of its recent drabness; seasonal prospects
were never better.
The extent to which the co. has plunged
into the pastoral-finance business of recent
years this comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows: —
1922. L 927 1930 1931
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £l5O/300 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 149,271 223,196 364,582 270,422
Premises and
plant . . 77,339 110,352 141,235 139,460
Book debts, etc. 235,652 408,487 72'2,077 600,229
I n v e s tments,
cash, etc. . . 30,526 11,218 9,005 14,005
Merchandise . . 3,380 5,476 3,610 4,256
During the year the book value of advances
was reduced £121,848, there being practi-
cally no carry-over to finance when the books
closed. Thus £109,668 was wiped off the
overdraft, reducing it to £185,023; but the
amount coming to sundry creditors (£85,339)
was reduced by £15,505. The more or less
liquid surplus (£348,068) was £22,042
lighter than at the previous balance.
The pound shares, which fetched 525. on
the market two years ago, are now priced
at 265. Allowing for the final div., the return
at that figure is 6 p.c. on a 7* p.c. div.
basis, or 8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution. The
backing is 38s. in net tangibles.
£553,000,000 Conversion Proposal
For the 10 months to April 30 the aggre-
gate deficit of the various Australian Gov-
ernments vt r as £36,668,000. The estimated
figure for 1931-32 is £40,000,000. To bridge
the gap it propose)! to reduce outgoings by
£16,000,000 and raise an extra £12,000,000 by
taxation (if possible), leaving another
£12,000,000 to be provided by bank credits.
The alternatives to economy are inflation
and default, both equally abhorrent to an
honest public.
The economy proposals comprise a reduc-
tion in the interest paid on Government
securities, to be followed by a 20 p.c. cut in
public-service salaries, pensions, etc. The
saving in interest is expected to amount to
£3,000,000, after allowing for loss of income
tax. The idea is to convert local securities
of the Federal and State Governments into
a common 4 p.c. Commonwealth stock with
a currency of 40 years. The amount in-
volved is over £553,000,000, on which the
average interest is now 5.2 p.c.
Many details remain to be settled in con-
nection with the scheme. Broadly, the pre-
sent proposal is that owners of existing secu-
rities will suffer a reduction of 22* p.c. in
the amount of interest received. That works
out in this way :
22* p.c. New
Present Rate. Reduction. Annual Rate.
£6 10 0 p.c. £l9 3 £5 0 9
600 „ 170 4 13 0
5 15 0 „ 15 101 4 9 1)
5 10 0,, 149 453
5 5 0 „ 13 7* 4 1 4|
5 ' 0 O' „ 1 2 6 3 17 6
4 10 0,, 103 399
4 0 0 „ 18 0 3 2 0
The new annual rates are only approximate,
of course. They will vary slightly accord-
ing to the date of maturity of the existing
paper. After allowing for the 22* p.c. cut,
where the yield on the old security exceeds
4 p.c. holders will receive a premium in the
new bonds; where the yield is less than 4
p.c. the conversion will be at a discount.
The equivalent amount of new stock is to be
determined by actuarial valuation. Income
from the new bonds will be free of super
tax. (Is. 6d. in the £), and of any future
additional taxation, but subject to other
existing levies. Income from old bonds not
converted will be subject to all present taxes,
plus 25 p.c.; thus virtually making the con-
version a forced one.
The tax-frees are the stumbling block at
the moment. While there are sound reasons
why holders might be induced to come in on
a voluntary basis, attempts at compulsion
can have only one end; a bad one. These
tax-frees are all low-interest-bearing State
issues, taken over by the Commonwealth;
most of them mature at an early date. Sane
and honest action by the Governments would
quickly bring about a reduction in the cost
of exchange, with a greater relief to budgets
than that expected from the proposed con-
version.
The precipitous drop in the market price
of all Government securities is due partly to
fear that Governments may delay in carry-
ing out their part of the programme, and
partly to a misconception of the real mean-
ing of the proposals. Last week the market
price of the 6 per cents, dropped over £lO,
but has since made a slight recovery, the
average being around £B4. Obviously capi-
tal is very nervous at the moment. The
position requires very careful handling if
our credit is not to be further damaged.
From The Bulletin of May 27, dealing
with Anthony Horderns’ year :
The management snapped up the liquidation stocks
of the Civil Service Stores and Sparlings during the
year, and apparently the lot and more were cleared
before the accounts closed.
Mr. Solomon Sparling is afraid that some
people may think that his was a case of
compulsory liquidation. There was, of course,
no suggestion of that. We are glad to accept
hi.s assurance that he is far from bankrupt,
and to congratulate him upon it.
:J: * i'fi ❖
Reduced output at the Barrier, due to the
slump in metal prices, caused a falling off
of about 20 p.c. in lead production at B. H.
Associated Smelters, Port Pirie, for the six
months to Jan. 14. Also the zinc roasters
slowed down and the acid plant worked
intermittently, owing to dulness in the
speltr market and the superphosphates indus-
try. Successful assaults were made upon costs
by improvements to the Dwight and Lloyd
plant, blast furnace and refinery, and more
local coke is now being used. This is
obtained mainly from the co.’s own ovens at
Bellambi on the N. S. Wales South Coast.
The largest savings in time, fuel and labor,
however, have resulted from the successful
development of a new process for con-
tinuous desilvering in the lead bullion. This
is claimed to be one of the greatest advances
in recent lead metallurgy, and has displaced
the Parkes process for refining purposes.
?! ?! ♦ ?!
Dr. Keith Ward, the S. Aus. Government
geologist, says it is impossible to assess the
risk that wmuld be involved in boring the
well-defined anticlinal structure near Mt.
Gambier. He adds that such a structure
would be suflicieht to justify a boring cam-
paign if discovered in a region proved to be
petroliferous. But it still remains to be
shown that any oil exists in this part of
Australia. The nearest occurrence is 400
miles away from Mt. Gambier, and the
intervening tertiary rocks have not yet
afforded successful results, though boring has
been carried out W’here structural features
were considered favorable. No unquestion-
able seepage of oil has been located in S.
Aus., though the territory has been disturbed
by faulting and by volcanic eruptions at
points within a few miles of the folded area.
?! ?! ?! ?=
From time to time investors have been
asked to believe.that a rubber-like substance
known as coorongite, and found on the shores
of the Murray Lagoon, Kangaroo Island,
where pre-Cambrian rocks outcrop, is de-
rived from some petroleum deposit by a pro-
cess inspissation. Actually it is derived from
vegetable matter of a primitive type in
lagoons, and is formed from the scum which
results when lagoon waters recede or eva-
porate in dry seasons. A somewhat similar
substance is found in Portuguese East Africa
and at Lake Ala-Kool in Central Asia.
* * * *
Guinea Gold, the successful Adelaide co.
which parted with most of its New Guinea
leases to Bulolo Gold Dredging and New
Guinea Goldfields, is still negotiating with
Bulolo for the sale of a further two leases,
known as the northern group, adjoining the
ones on which Bulolo is preparing to set in.
Its dredges are expected to be at work within
a year. Six months after production begins
the balance of the purchase consideration is
payable. This figured in Guinea Gold’s
accounts at £81,200 at Feb. 28; cash and
sundries amounted to £2016. There was
£l5l coming to erditors. In Aug. last, 10s. per
share (£25,000) was returned out of the first
instalment of the cash consideration, reduc-
ing paid capital to £50,000. It is expected
that a further distribution will be made in
1932. The co. is on the hunt for new pro-
perties, and one in N. S. Wales is being
investigated.
?! * ?! ?!
Shareholders in Bulolo Gold Dredging find
themselves in the unusual position of being
able to chortle in their joy. The directors
announce that in view of the satisfactory
condition of the co.’s finances, the date of
the next call has been postponed from July
15 to August 15. Transportation of dredge
parts from the beach to the mountain aero-
drome by ’plane is proceeding satisfactorily,
and the first dredge hull is in course of
construction.
?<?=?!*
Commonwealth Mines Preliminary Syndi-
cate, an English concern which is’ to look
over old North Queensland goldfields, includ-
ing the Palmer and the Croydon-Etheridge,
is bringing out the necessary equipment for
testing operations. The Queensland Govern-
ment has granted the syndicate mining rights
over some 70,000 acres. Some of those who,
years ago, put up money to treat the refrae-
tory ores of the Etheridge field will watch the
experimeht with interest; that is, if such of
them as are still alive take interest in any-
thing but keeping that way. The Govern-
ment. i.s putting some of the State-owned
diamond drills at the disposal of the syn-
dicate.
/.;.,?= * ?!
Fred T. Bradshaw, well-known Westralian
prospector, thinks something ought to be
done in these days to rework some of the
millions of tons of tailings on the big State’s
n.-e. goldfields. The Mines Department is
not very enthusiastic, because hitherto “tail-
ings treated were lower in grade than anti-
cipated,” and also because very little infor-
mation is available about these dumps.
Bradshaw, however, thinks that, if past
attempts have failed, it is because hand-
power has been used; his own idea is “a
machine of at least three times the capacity
of the present dryblower, to be driven by
the power in a motor-truck.” There need
be no cartage; the truck could go from dump
to dump. In view of the gold bonus, the
exchange and Australia’s necessities, a rough
sampling and survey of heaps available looks
well worth while.
* ?! ?! ?!
Developments between depths of 600 ft. and
800 ft. in the Wiluna (W.A.) should console
shareholders who have been depressed by
mechanical defects disclosed by first run of
treatment plant. Big bodies of ore from 7ft.
to 20ft. in width, averaging 40s. per ton, are
being exposed. These will pay well when
preliminary plant difficulties have been over-
come.
?: ?i * :Jt
In 1917 H. Talbot and E. de C. Clarke
made a geological reconnaissance of the coun-
try between Laverton and Warburton
Ranges (W.A.), near the S.A. border.
Their plants show rock structures favor-
able to mineral-bearing formations, and
recently the ranges have been the Mecca
of adventurous prospectors. None has
had any luck yet, but they keep on
trying. At the moment nine camels
are engaged in dragging a roadmakei
from Laverton to the field, some 320 miles,
and the Government intends sending officers
of the Lands and Mines Departments on a
six months’ trip to investigate the area.
* - * * *
. Manager Thorn is developing and equip-
ping Lake View and Star leases on a scale
not before attempted at Kalgoorlie. Bullion
from ore treated by the co. averages £21,500
monthly, while that from tributors exceeds
that. sum. Expenditure on new plant and
special developmental work has recently been
at the rate of £17,000 per month, which is
practically covered by the gold premium.
When development and equipment plans are
complete, the L. Y. and S. will be the show
place of Kalgoorlie.
?! * ?! ?!
Kalgoorlie investors are hurrying to pro-
vide capital to work the rich quartz reef
discovered near Fraser’s Southern Cross.
Jack Warwick, manager of the Great
Boulder Prop., secured the show for £lOOO,
and it is likely that a co., with a capital
of £lO,OOO, will be formed to open up the
discovery.
?= ?! ?! . k
Broken Hill Prop., having taken an option
over Hannans North Extended (W.A.),
intends to unwater the workings to permit
sampling operations. R. C. Wilson, Assist-
and State Mining Engineer, lent to the
co. for 12 months, has a hand in the business.
* * ?! ?!
Some tributors on the Boulder Belt (W.A.)
are reaping a harvest. Large parcels of ore
from shallow depths have yielded soz. and
over per ton. The fly in the ointment is the
division of the gold premium; the cos. desire
the lot, while the tributors want half. Pres-
ently the Courts will be asked to settle the
matter.
?=?:?!!)!
North Kalgurli, which bought Oroya
Links’ property a couple of years ago, is
following the sound policy of developing ore
reserves before installing the new treatment
plant. Over 300,000 tons of payable stone
has been measured up, and another 200,000
tons is expected to be added to the block this
year.
?: ?! * ?!
A lode of tin near Narrup (W.A.) has
been traced for 2* miles on the surface,
and, it is claimed, there is plenty of alluvial
wash in the vicinity. The country is well
watered ; still, the deposits will need to be
exceptionally rich to warrant being worked
with the metal at its present price. And
they can be depended on to be tricks All
lode-tin deposits are.
♦ ?! * *
Prospecting has disclosed a quantity of
fresh payable ore above water level in the
Edna May Group, Westonia (W.A.). Two
crushings, one of 200 tons and another of
190 tons, yielded 130 oz. 18dwt. and 128 oz.
lOdwt. respectively, an average of 13.3dwt.
per ton over the plates. The battery value
of the ore was 545. per ton as against
a prospect value of 565. The sands from
both tailings have yet to be treated.
**?!?!
Cue has been added to the lengthening
list of good strikes recently made in W.A.
At tliis centre prospector Walker struck it
rich to the tune of 5000 z., and is still going
strong.
* * . * *
The gold-mining revival in W .A. has
caused prospectors to clamor for more ore-
treatment facilities from the Government,
and batteries unused for a decade are being
put in shape. Still, officials are unable to
cope with the rush.
* * * *
The directors of Freney Oil Co. are a
persevering lot. Shareholders felt pretty
well squelched when failure attended the
drilling of the last bore at a depth of o-bUtf.,
but the signing of a contract to drill another
hole to 3200 ft.. at a cost of £5OOO, has revived
hopes. This time care will be taken to pre-
vent anything untoward happening.
* * * *
It is reported that a new method of treat-
ing ores containing gold, _ antimony and
arsenic has been discovered in South Africa.
The roasted product is brought in contact
with a mixture of chemicals, which makes
gold recovery by amalgamation simple._ lne
presence of antimony caused several big ore
deposits at Wiluna to be neglected. If the
new process proves to be the success claimed,
investors may be encouraged to give those
Wiluna shows another trial.
?! * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
The directors of the Australian Benefit
Life recommend their shareholders to sell
to the Associated Dominions. Terms not
disclosed. What is the position of each? —
3723.
Expenses of the Aus. Benefit have swal-
lowed all the income and a great part of
the capital. Exes, are still 90 p.c. of the net
premiums—after 10 years. Amalgamation
or purchase is the best thing that could
happen. But whether the Assoc. Dominions
is the best office to join up with is another
matter. The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” re-
ported (l/11/’3O) : “Assuming that the
Dominions’ life fund covered its liability
under policies at June 30, which is doubtful,
it is obvious that, apart from uncalled capi-
tal, the net tangible cover for policy-holders
is now insufficient to cover liabilities under
policies.”
(1) Are the benefits receivable under a
life policy subject to probate tax? (2) If
I transferred my policies to my wife, would
they then be taxable? —-3647.
(1) Yes. Some offices issue a pro-
bate policy claimed to be non-taxable; but
the premiums apparently have to be paid
by some person other than the person on
whose life the policy is issued. (2) Very
doubtful if they would escape, especially if
the widow could not prove that she had
paid all the premiums.
Is there any method of saving battery gold
other than by using quicksilver and plates?
—3362.
In some batteries in early days, before the
blanket table had been supferseded by amal-
gamated copper-plate, no quicksilver was
used for free-milling ores in which the gold
was coarse, except in the clean-up, the coarse
gold settling in the mortar and the finer
gold being caught on the blankets.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.E.8.: (1) Very well managed. (2)
Commercial of Sydney. . (3) Risks are probably less
in Lyell... .H.R.G.: (1) A gamble at long odds. (2)
No value; in fact, if not fully paid, a possible
liability... .C.P.0.: Sorry, you can’t forfeit. The
man who takes a share in a limited liability co.
makes himself liable for all that’s unpaid of the
face value. .. .W.E.8.: (1) A co. to grow things in
Queensland can be registered anywhere in Australia.
(2) A prospectus can be drafted and shares sold before
registration. (3) A promoter can be allotted free
shares in return for services, (4) Better consult a
solicitor: there are many pitfalls... .R.N.F.: If you
signed the application for shares without any such
proviso, you are liable. (Why will people take
notice of representations that are not in the pros-
pectus ?)


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
BLUCHER UP TO DATE.
“The Minister for Local Government said that the City Council would take over the Water Board, the Main Roads Board, the Transport Trust, the Harbor Trust,
the Fire Brigades Board, air ports, control of parks, rivers, creeks, watercourses, and even cemeteries. Its all-embracing powers will cover National Park and Kuring-gai
Chase, Taronga Park Zoological Gardens and others. The council will consist of a chairman at £l000 a year and 22 members at £400 a year .’’—Description of the new
Greater Sydney Bill.
ALDERMAN-GENERAL SOVIETSKI: “WHAT a city to loot!”
“Strict Veg.”: A pasteboard figure in
commissionaire’s uniform gave visitors to the
Melbourne radio show a foretaste of the
mechanical man reported in many cables of
late as having been perfected abroad. As
often as anybody passed by and intercepted
the invisible ray that worked the effigy’s
innards, it raised its hand in a military
salute. Someone has suggested that an even
greater air of reality would have been given
to the thing if at the same time it had
placed its other hand behind its back with
the palm upward.
“Ramirez”: I always picture the Falk-
lands, where the Speck’s ex-Gov. O’Grady
is to take over the reins (B. 6/5/’3l),
in the light of a story by a naval uncle.
His ship dropped in there sometime in the
’sixties, and the local nobility and gentry
gave the after-guard a picnic. Owing to
circumstances over which the locals had no
control the group was dry at the time, so
the tars generously offered to furnish the
liquor. This included some excellent bottled
porter, and the wife of the resident chaplain
did herself so well with this that his rever-
ence ventured on a gentle warning. “Be
careful, Mr. Broadcloth?” reiterated his
better half in dignified indignation. “Why,
who do you think it was then that hie—
cut all the san’wishes, anyway ? ’
“First Gravedigger” : The rumor that
wealthy Britons whose relatives are lying
in Continental war cemeteries have been
bribing French and Belgians to secretly
exhume the bodies for reburial in “family
vaults” scarcely needs the denials of those
in authority. Apart from the fact that the
average army or navy officer—leaving “other
ranks” out of the question—comes from
the ordinary middle-class family, not one in
a hundred of which possesses a family vault,
Britons contributing their sons to the services
have for centuries been content to let their
dead hallow the place where they fell, in-
stead of dragging the bodies thousands of
miles by sea or land. Americans are dif-
ferent. They have spent millions shipping
dead soldiers home from the Philippines and
France.
“GO”- tn Gpnpvfi Victoria
had ihe iowaS death-rate for of any
country in the world—94s per 100.000.
Among 33 cities Melbourne stood second (930
per 100,000), the winner of the riband being
Wellington with 920. Calcutta had 3060
.deaths per 100,000. In Calcutta child mar-
riage is the rule, while it is the exception
in Melbourne; moreover, there is no .killer
like a high birth-rate. In the matter of
abstaining from having little darlings Vic-
torian mothers are only beaten by the
matrons of two other countries—England
and Switzerland. When they do arrive, how-
ever, we certainly look after them much
better in Melbourne (51 infant deaths per
1000) than they do in Cairo (211).
“X.N.0.”: One of the Boyal Navy’s most
valuable war-time messengers between Lowe-
stoft and drifters and trawlers in the
North Sea has just died. Affection-
ately known as Lightning, he carried many
valuable messages during those four years;
his death followed only a few days after
that of an equally famous brother, Rupert,
who was killed by a cat. Another brother,
Old Bill, was attached for three years to
G.H.Q. in France, and is still alive. Downy
old birds, these carrier-pigeons!
“Adelaide”: Dr. Herbert Basedow, the S.A.
scientist and politician, plans yet another
expedition to find that three-ounce-to-the-ton
gold-reef in Centralia that poor Harold Bas-
seter claimed to have struck in 1893 and lost
his life in seeking to re-discover five months
ago. Somewhere about 300 miles from Alice
Springs it was reached, possibly, by Earle in
1903; at any rate, he brought in fine speei-
mens. In 1906 and 1916, attacks by natives
turned back camel parties; and latterly the
expeditions, whether by motor-truck or air,
have all failed. Basedow proposes to do the
thing thoroughly and settle the mystery of
what has come to be known as Aladdin’s
Cave.
“Zouave”: When some amiable pacifist
was denouncing militarism in the House of
Commons the other day, and expressing his
fierce hostility to every token and trapping of
it, a quiet voice suddenly asked if he had
never given a small son a box of toy soldiers,
and the pacifist was too honest to say he
hadn’t. I wonder if some of our Australian
anti-flaggers would own up to such a lapse;
also I wonder if the League of Nations has
yet put the manufacturer of toy soldiers out
of a job, or whether he has risen to the
occasion and devised a substitute. A box of
drab and uniformed politicians 'would have
little appeal for youth, I am afraid, even if
it were explained that they make more wars
than soldiers do or ever have. ■ But some-
thing might be done with police constables,
mounted ones especially; as guardians of the
law and their fellows they might be given
to a boy without any fear of inculcating
this detestable martial spirit in him. The
idea is commended to the N.S.W. Minister of
To h iSf S the 10n Jl e“ iF,“
“ ,5. *° prohlblt U “‘ sale of toy
Marble Bar! The name calls up visions
of ice tinkling against glasses as men and
women, sitting in a glittering marble cafe,
sip cooling draughts through straws, of
oysters on the shell, and possibly a jetting
fountain, in whose basin goldfish wave a
languid fin! But the Marble Bar (W.A.)
in which pleasant-faced Jean Macleod lias
passed part of her young life is a different
proposition. It is the administrative centre
of the Pilbara goldfield and the hottest spot
in Australia (Jean is one of the nnrw/nf
the A.I.M). At Marble Bar when you want
a bath with the heat off it you draw the
water at ten in the morning, and by three
in the afternoon it’s cooled off enough to go
into. It’s impossible to get up and have a
shower before breakfast; the water out of
the shower is about scorching point. One
of the prettiest sights which Jean Macleod
and her friend Jean Grey never tired of was
the approach of the spinifex pigeons to the
little pool of water formed under the tap,
which the kind girls left always dripping.
These birds in little companies would come
around the A.I.M. station, gather at some
distance from the pool and walk to it with
something of the action of the old-fashioned
Dutch doll. At nightfall, after a particularly
arid day, the timid, wide-eyed kangaroo
would seek the solace of the Mission pool.
Mrs. Kendall, famous as an actress in mid-
Victorian days, has managed at 83 to recap-
ture a little bit of the publicity that every
Thespian loves by a public announcement
that the use of the lipstick will be England’s
ruin. Madge Robertson, as she once was,
was a sister of Tom of that name, author of
“Caste,” “School” and other famous comedies.
She was probably more disliked by the other
feminine members of her profession than any
other living actress. From the day of her
marriage she and her husband posed as a
highly moral pair, making it plain by infer-
ence and otherwise that anything of the
sort was quite abnormal in the “profession.”
Thereby they gained a solid and constant
evangelical following, people who never other-
wise entered a theatre always making a point
of attending the Kendalls’ latest show. Good
Queen Victoria was induced to smile on the
Kendalls, and after that the going was so
good that the moral couple retired early
with a comfortable fortune.
“C. 8.”: Bulletin artist Dick Ovenden
has entered a field abandoned by Harry Julius
many years ago, and is making animated
cartoons for Australian Sound Films, a new
Melbourne “Herald” enterprise. His first
effort is a remarkably smooth performance,
in which a more than human motor-car
advertises a brand of spirit, and which has
the added advantage of speech and inciden-
tal noises. The two and a half minutes of
film involved 600 separate drawings. Later
Ovenden proposes to put the Australian
bear before a public which avidly follows
the fortunes of Mickey the Mouse. Ovenden’s
animal is a genuine Australian bear, but
has sufficient points of difference from Nor-
man Lindsay’s immortal creation for the
patents office to grant him the copyright.
“Senex”: Travelling by elephant through
the dense Siamese jungle, we passed in a
dim twilight through a long green tunnel,
the sides of which for miles brushed the
elephants’ flanks as we passed. Suddenly
a turn of the tunnel brought us to the edge
of a deep, narrow ravine, through which a
turbulent stream brawled over great rocks.
A cloudburst the night before had caused a
sudden flood, and the bridge, a modern con-
crete structure, lay in ruins. The mahout
spoke to the elephant, bidding him stand,
but the great beast, usually so docile, went
suddenly mad. Heedless of the mahout’s
voice and goad lie raised his trunk and
trumpeted, a veritable scream of despair, as,
shuddering and trampling violently, he tensed
his mighty muscles to attempt an impossible
leap. We were powerless to stop the animal,
and to leap from the howdah in that narrow
passage was to court death by crushing
against the trees or by the pounding of those
giant feet. Seconds seemed as hours as the
elephant screamed and swayed on the very
brink, apparently hesitating to make the
fatal plunge. TThen from the green tunnel
opposite a single magnificent white butter-
fly soared proudly, and straight as the
flight of an arrow sailed towards the ele-
phant’s head. Behind it followed an immense
cloud of similar butterflies. In an instant
they surrounded us like a dense fog—a palpi-
tating, silent, living fog of fluttering wings.
The elephant at once became quiet, and
stood perfectly still. For some minutes
the dense cloud poured past us along the
passage-way we had just traversed, and when
the last stragglers had gone by the elephant
was once more docile and obeyed instantly
the commands of the mahout. So narrow
was the track and so dense the jungle that
the elephant had to back over two miles
before we found a place where he could
turn. We then proceeded to our destination
by a more circuitous route.
“Strand” : According to a cable: —
English theatrical producers agree that the clay
has gone when London will support 40 or 50 plays,
just as the day of the music-hall has gone owing to
the pressure of the cinema. Miss Gladys Cooper
predicts the closing of scores of theatres.
In Australia the music-hall is almost the
only form of stage entertainment which is
standing up to the talkies. Where the
cinemas are beating even the London
theatres .(apart altogether from their cheap-
ness and superior comfort) is in the high
all-round quality of their acting. Under the
British acting-manager (or -manageress)
arrangement, the star and consort for the
time being grabbed the fat parts, and filled
up the cast as a rule with cheap hams. Un-
travelled Australians never really knew what
first-class acting was till the talkies arrived,
a result of the reluctance of leading mum-
mers to leave their native capitals till the
latter were getting tired of them. Many
mimes are pleasanter to look at and listen
to on the screen than they: are on the boards.
But this doesn’t apply to vaudeville stars,
who are oddities first and actors afterwards.
They are nothing without the personal touch.
Grand opera and musical. comedy are the
two remaining forms of theatrical art which
have relatively little to fear from the talkies
in the talkies’ present stage of development.
Hollywood made a costly attempt to put
musical comedy across with the aid of techni-
color, but the public , recoiled from the
weird process, and it is now practically dead.
Opera is nothing without a prima donna and
tenor in the flesh, and musical comedy is no-
thing without real legs.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Love Race”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Mikado”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
»
The Melbourne Office Flapper sees a War
Play (and illustrates it) : —*■
Well, I have seen my first War Play—
also my last. A gentleman of the Pre-War
generation took me. He said we of the
Post-War generation were losing our moral
stamina. We were taking life too easily.
I said, well, the Pre-War generation took it
easily enough, judging by the casualty lists.
He said, I don’t mean that. He said, we
had forgotten how to Suffer. It was our
duty to see what the country went through
in the titanic struggle and all that sort of
thing. I said, throw in my Girl Friend and
we’ll suffer with you. So we went.
Well, w T e live and learn in this world. 1
mean, I had no idea that was what the War
was like. The play was called “Greater
Love,” and it was Mr. Beresford Fowler’s
own composition. He produced it at the
Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, where he has suc-
cessfully staged many drawing-room com-
edies. It was under the Distinguished Pat-
ronage and in the Presence of Sir John
Monash—for three of the four acts, at any
rate. I mean, you can ask too much of
even the Bravest Soldiers.
Well, it starts at a public school in Mel-
bourne, where, to quote Mr. Fowler, “the
immortal Victor Trumper cast his spell over
the imagination of youth.” In Melbourne
public schools, apparently, the masters enter-
tain each other by swapping all the cracker
mottoes Mr. Fowler has collected at Christ-
mas parties since he was a baby. “Tiger”
Miller, who has just won a cricket match,
“receives in recognition a kiss from a youth-
ful sweetheart, the headmaster’s daughter
Lorna.” Needless to say, the part of “Tiger”
is taken by Mr. Beresford Fowler.
Act 2 is in Mrs. Blinkett’s boarding-house,
over which the war clouds are lowering. “In
those days,” says Mr. Fowler, “the noblest
sentiments predominated in women, even
more strikingly than in men. They gave
us their kisses, their sympathy, their love,
and we accepted them as tokens of their
gratitude and regard, never regarding them
as lasting and binding symbols of anything
else.” Apparently the divorce laws were
suspended in those days, remarked the Other
Girl.
Well, the schoolboys have grown to man-
hood. They include Phil and Reg and a
“Successfully staged many drawing-room
comedies.”
commercial-traveller slacker. Phil and Reg
march off to the war while the slacker stays
behind to smoke Mr. Fowler’s cigars in the
face of Lorna, who returns the compliment
with white feathers.
Well, Act 3 takes place in France. We
meet Sergeant “Tiger” Miller, the Spirit of
Anzac, and his wounded dog Corbie. “In
‘Tiger’ the daredevil .schoolboy has become
the fearless soldier. He loathes the aristo-
cracy, has been reduced for insubordination
a few times, but a distinguished act of brav-
ery has always re-won him his stripes.” The
Australian Army is entrenched before Bray-
sur-Somme. It has only one gun, but that
is made up for by the presence of Mr. Fowler.
He is as good as a howitzer battery. Every
time he speaks the enemy machine-guns cease
to rattle. He makes an inspiring figure
standing there amongst his crouching com-
rades, dauntlessly firing off the remainder of
his crateker mottoes at the enemy. He scorns
to take shelter. He is an example even to
his superior officers.
Act 4 is back in Australia. Mr. “Tiger”
Fowler has been killed bringing in a wounded
comrade, and the play has to struggle along
without him. Phil discovers he is the ille-
gitimate son of the world-famous actor
Arthur Hamilton. He feels Lorna c.an never
marry him. But she does. She must have
belonged to the Post-War generation.
Well, when it was all over I looked at
the Other Girl, and she looked at me, and
then we both looked at the Pre-War gentle-
man. He said, what do you think of it V
Well, said the Other Girl, if the Pre-War
generation started it they have a lot to
answer for —it’s awful! You mean the
War? said the P.W.G. I mean the play,
said the Other Girl. If it is a play, she
added.
Oh, he said, it’s quite plain to see you
belong to the Post-War generation. No,
said the Other Girl, I belong to the Anti-
War-play Generation. If Mr. Fowler’s ideas
about the War represent the ideas of the
Pre-War generation, then all I can say, she
said, is that the Post-War generation has
grown up quicker than the PreAVar genera-
tion. I mean, she said, wars seem to me
the ordinariest and commonest things going.
Every country seems to have had them.
Wliat’s more, she said, while they had them
they seem to have thoroughly enjoyed them.
Look at Lorna, now. She seems to have had
a grand time sending white feathers to per-
fect strangers. If Mr. Fowler hasn’t ex-
hausted his supply of cracker mottoes, why
doesn’t he write a play about the sufferings
of the heroes of the present depression? There
are five of them in our family.
Well, that annoyed the Pre-War gentle-
man terribly, but he couldn’t say anything.
It seems lie saw the War through as a sub-
divisional land-agent in one of the outer
suburbs, and he bears the marks of his
experience all over him. It seems, he has
done all his sufferings at War Plays.
* * *
If the Prime Minister were a dramatic
critic: —
Mr. Seullin admitted that he had
heard rumors that there had been a per-
formance of “lolanthe” at Melbourne Theatre
Royal. H'e refused to say whether he con-
sidered that there was any basis for the
report. The country was full of rumors.
There were rumors that he had twisted on a
former colleague in the Ministry, that his
present actions contradicted certain state-
ments he w T as alleged to have made in cer-
tain alleged cablegrams, and that he was
under the thumb of an alleged oligarchy
“Every time he speaks
the enemy machine-guns
cease to rattle.”
called a Caucus.
As for the story
about “lolanthe,”
he would neither
affirm nor deny
it. Whatever he
said the Opposi-
tion would dis-
tort his words.
They had said
that he was
clinging to office
like a flea cling-
ing to the tail of
a condemned mare
bound for the
Zoo —glad of a
ride wherever it
took him to.
“lolanthe” or
some similar play
might or might
not have been pro-
duced in or about
a theatre or other place in one or other of the
capitals of the Commonwealth. Whether
the statements about “lolanthe” were true
or false, his policy was the same now as it
had ever been, and would be put into effect,
without fear or favor and regardless of un-
informed criticism, at the earliest oppor-
tunity and probably even earlier than that;
and this despite the propaganda of certain
newspapers which asserted that he had lost
the confidence of the country, when as a
matter of fact he had merely incurred the
hostility of certain wealthy interests intent
on bringing the Labor policy into disrepute.
Pressed to say whether he thought that
Mary Hotham in the name part of “lolanthe”
displayed what amounted almost to musical
genius, and that the singing of “He Loves:
If in the Bygone Years” was good enough
to make a stage electrician burst into
applause, Mr. Seullin said that if the lady
actually existed and such a play had been
performed, which he was not prepared to
admit, he would engage to submit the ques-
tion to the next conference of his party,
which would take place in five years’ time.
Whatever their decision, it would be incor-
porated in the party’s platform and the
people would be enabled to pass judgment
on it at the next general election, which, by
a bill now being prepared, would be post-
poned till 1939. Any attempt to force him
(Mr. Seullin) into a precipitate statement
on the subject could only be interpreted as
further proof of a plot between the Red
element and the Opposition, to drive him from
office, even at the risk of wrecking industry,
debasing the currency, and ruining the coun-
try’s credit abroad.
On the other hand, he was prepared, un-
hesitatingly and without any equivocation
whatsoever, to affirm that if the play had
been performed as alleged then it had been
performed. Moreover, if, as asserted, the
house was full every night, then the play
was a success.
When it was pointed out that most of
the cast were Australian, Mr. Seullin imme-
diately relaxed and frankly admitted that
that was the sort of thing he had all along
expected. No more triumphant vindication
of his party’s activities since taking office
could be desired. The new scientific tariff
had been arranged to meet such contingen-
cies, and obviously this appearance of Aus-
tralians on the stage was one of its happy
results. He demanded time to answer the
question as to whether the embargo on
imported actors came under the heading of
“Peanuts” or “Fancy Soaps,” but he was
sure it was one or the other or possibly
neither or both.
* * H-
Dorothy Gill’s golden contralto attached
to the part of Katisha was one of the hits
of “The Mikado” at Melbourne Roval on
Saturday. Another was the pert and melo-
dious Yum-Yum of Marie Bremner. Pre-
vious Kokos have sung “Tit Willow” better
than Ivan Menzies, and got more of the
comedy out of the character also. Bernard
Manning presented a Mikado that would
“An example even to his superior officers.”
make the deadest Samurai turn in his grave
and shout Banzai, or whatever a Samurai
shouts when his patriotic sentiments are
outraged; but that was Gilbert’s fault.
Frank Neil having successfully evacuated
Melbourne Bijou, Clem Dawe moved in with
the cohorts of vaudeville on Saturday after-
noon. Those portions of the programme sur-
veyed by The Bulletin were bright, especi-
ally Edna Ralston, whose voice is nearly as
nice as her legs, which is saying a great
deal. Edgley, White and Dawe provide the
pornography required for a well-balanced bill
with a scene enacted in a hospital, and the
endeavors of Dawes to drive a baby car
over the top of the orchestra smack of origi-
nality. Other hardened favorites were being
threatened with encores when The Bulle-
tin left.
# H- *
A fresh development at Melbourne Tivoli
is the Countess Sonia, who, with other mem-
bers of the old Russian aristocracy, is stag-
ing an unusually elaborate revue. Ihe
Wooden Soldiers’ ballet is something new
on the local professional boards, though
something like it was done privately by the
Slav community a while ago. The Countess
is a lovely dancer, and matches her grace
with her partner Juan Romero. An un-
pardonable infliction is “Argus”—not the
wad of witty comment and sporty gaiety
that gets flung over the writer’s fence every
morning, but a young gentleman who reads
the minds of members of the audience and
relates what he has read in an accent that
is all his own.
¥ # H-
Thus far the Frank Harvey season at
Melbourne Comedy has revealed that what'
that exceilent actor is most in need of is
a good female lead. The Firm has presum-
ably ransacked the local field, but in this
case, at any rate, without success. Its prin-
cipal find, Coral Brown, is a tall, good-looking
person, but, as with many actresses of the
type, is too distinctively herself to be satis-
fying in a variety of roles. The best inter-
preters of stage youthfulness Australia has
seen have been mature and even elderly
women like Renee Kelly and Irene Vanbrugii.
Art is long and youth slow to arrive on the
stage. Iris Darhyshire, whom the Firm is
importing to co-star with Harvey, is hand-
some and only 28. She may turn out to be
the exception that proves the rule.
* * *
When The Bulletin looked in on the
new Rolls show at Sydney St. James last
week the audience was curiously unrespon-
sive. Its forced hand-clapping gave the im-
pression that it had come to see one sort of
thing and was being given another. It must
have been something of that sort, for there
was little wrong with the entertainment,
unless perhaps its spotless cleanliness is not
to be regarded as a virtue, or unless Mr.
Rolls offended his clients by departing from
his custom of peopling his shows with prac-
tically bald women. He even put them in
crinolines for one turn, and most of the
rest of the frocking recognised the current
“The slacker stays behind to smoke Mr.
Fowler’s cigars in the face of Lorna.”
cold weather. Anyway, it is a pretty show,
with Janette Gilmore, Charley Sylber and
Jim Gerald at their brightest and funniest.
A panic by Sylber is the best thing The
Bulletin has ever seen the little chap do;
and the audience, though it lapsed into its
frozen state immediately afterwards, forgot
itself sufficiently to bellow through a drunk
scene by Sylber and Gerald, a shooting scene
by the same pair, and a solo vaudeville turn
by Jim. Present writer suspects that Mabel
Gibson is acting her part under orders. If
she is, she has been badly misinformed.
Usually an effective and charming actress,
she interprets the part of a drawly silver-
tail in a manner that is both painful and
embarrassing. Sylber rescues, it eventually
per medium of ridicule, but it is a bad patch
in a good show.
* * *
Last week Sydney State Theatre hit on
the bright idea of inviting all the writers
it could think of to a special performance of
the talkie evolved from Edna Ferber’s fine
novel “Cimarron.” Though he finds him-
self, as a rule, conspicuously unentertained
by the talkies, present writer joined the
throng with his mind as open as he could
get it. His opinion of the picture “Cimar-
ron” is that it is not so much an all-
talkie as an all-walkie, and he is old-
fashioned or original enough to think that
easily the picture’s best moments were the
silent night shots of a prairie trek. That
picture, however, was not all the bill. The
rest was tip-top and included a capital
shot of the English Grand
National, with fine slow-
motion bits and expert com-
ment on the running. Curi-
ously enough, the item which
most fetched the house was
a stage offering—a vaudeville
turn in which dogs play an
uproarious game of Soccer.
It would be hard to find a
more diverting few minutes’
entertainment in any Syd-
ney theatre at the moment.
¥ * *
Leslie Haylen’s “A Change
of Policy,” given a short sea-
son by the Burdekin Players,
Sydney, has an excellent set
of ideas which the author is
not quite able to clothe with
words and present with pro-
per stagecraft. With the ex-
ception of Reichwaffer, a Jew
newspaper owner, and a
nameless tramp contemplat-
ing suicide at the Gap, the
characters are stagey. They
make speeches; they do not speak. They are
actors ; never human beings.
The plot is sound. A newspaper decides
to change its policy from drab to bright
yellow, and entrusts the yellowing to
specialists in underworld life (sob stories),
the life of the Upper Ten (scandal) and
suicides (stark realism). Three acts show
the specialists at work in their respective
milieus; a fourth brings the outstanding
characters together at Suicide Point. Using
this excellent skeleton, it would pay Mr.
Haylen to re-write the whole thing, humanis-
ing it
Ethel Gabriel, as a landlady, James Han-
cock, as the newspaper magnate, and C. K-
Anscombe, as the tramp, did excellent work
with the material granted them, and the
first quarter of the Gap scene (until the
reporter began to spout a leading article;
was realistic. The quaintest touch was
that of a backstairs girl-reporter, who had
crashed a Darling Point home to pump a
maid forbidden to talk —she drew out a
pad of paper and took notes!
J. C. Williamson is giving Brisbane
Majesty’s the benefit, of “Dearest Enemy,
with Dot Brunton
leading. “The
Duchess of Dant-
zic” and “The
Merry Widow” will
follow. According
to the bill this is to
be Miss Brunton’s
final appearance in
Australia.
* # *
In Adelaide the
Repertory Theatre
is getting to work
with Galsworthy;
and Frank Neil is
at the Royal, with
“Why Men Leave
Home.” The clever
Officer of the A.I.F.
( unshaved).
Theatre of Youth
has sung, danced and acted, at the Australia
Hall, a series of sea songs, French'legends
and folk-stories; and Amy Rochelle dropped
out of musical comedy at the Royal to try
a variety turn at the Tivoli.
Just now Sydney Criterion is closed, but
Frank Harvey is billed to be back there, in
Edgar Wallace’s “The Calendar,” on June
13. The Firm’s other offering, “The Love
Race,” at Her Majesty’s, has picked up wmll
after a shaky beginning. It is very frothy
stuff, but the cast, including Bluett, Elsie
Prince, Franklyn, Josie Melville, Leighton
and Frith, is certainly solid enough.
The experiment of two shows a night has
been abandoned by the Humhrey Bishop
crowd at the Palace —Sydney takes shifting
out of any settled routine. The show ; an
extravaganza with a capital voice (Kings-
ley’s) and the clever impersonator Fifi
Adoree, is now running a daily matinee and
night show. You can fill any seat in the
house for a bob at the matinees.
The Phillips-Beck combination is now in
its 32nd week at the Opera House, and the
show steadily improves. The end of the
week will see the Town Hall invaded by
Peter Dawson and Mark H'ambourg. Lin-
drum and Newman begin their show at the
Blaxland Galleries to-night (Wednesday).
Poverty Point
“Old Cri”Mary Moore, who died the
other day, was one of London’s idols a quarter
of a century ago. She and Charles Wyndham
were perfect foils —he romantically grave,
deep-voiced, strong-featured; she slim, gay,
delicate of face and voice, all light and air.
I saw her first as Ada in “David Garrick.
Wyndham’s best ’play and part, and the
memory of her girlish charm abides to this
day. She and Wyndham were inseparable ;
they not only toured, but took their holi-
days to the Engadine together; and when
his wife died some years ago they married.
West End society never objected to their
friendship—partly because he was more than
old enough to be her father. Mary Moore
worked hard for theatrical charities, and no
trouper who had appeared in a Wyndham
show failed to collect from her when in need.
“Cauboy” : Frank Harvey played in “Cape
Forlorn” and “Many Waters” in London,
and then took similar rSles in his own
talkie versions of the same pieces; and
he says that his preference is strongly for
fleshanblood performances. It is probably a
sincere expression of opinion, although there
is something to be said for the opposite
viewpoint. The true artist must surely lose
interest in a character once he has explored
all its possibilities, and to have to repeat
it night after
night must be
infinitely boring.
The film saves
him from all
this drudgery.
On the other
hand he gets a
fresh audience
for every flesh-
anbl o o d per-
formance, and
fresh applause
too —u sua 11 y,
however, at the
same places.
Applause is the
breath of life to
the actor. He
never tires of it,
however much
he may affect to
despise the ap-
“The Australian army
has only one gun.’
plauders. One . . ~
leading actor, who was playing in Meibom n<
at the same time that a film in which lie
appeared was showing, attended the screen-
ings several times daily, unconsciously in-
clining his head every time his shadow on* ■
sheet raised a giggle out of the spa
attendant flappers.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Cecil Kellaway’s most
interesting press dipping is f rom ?
paper of 20 years ago. It says: Ihe: P
of Matthew was played at a moment s “
by Cecil Kellaway. He gave a remarkabb
fine character-study, and, unless I am mu
mistaken, has a theatrical future
promise.” The notice is signed Ed ß ai
Wallace.” , ..
“Craiser”: Australians are not the on j
prophets unappreciated in their own cou -
try. Recently one Oswald Skilbeck s -
mitted a play, “Danger! High ’ <-i v
two London managers and was promi
rebuffed. He then tried it on a
with a covering letter stating that i
“a play by an unknown German author,
Herr Heinrich Neusser, translated bj
Oswald Skilbeck.” It was accepted and pio-
duced to loud acclaim, one cntic lanking it
with the works of other European m.
and one remarking that we . aie n i, IYWr ; 2 ht
that Herr Neusser is a genuine playwright
writing about men and women, a , . „
Mr. Skilbeck he has a capable translatoi.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
THE PREMIERS’ ORCHESTRA.
THE BANDMASTER: “No, Jack, I don’t think we’ll trust you with any other instrument until we’re sure you know the tune.”
“Why Didn’t I Make Lollies !”
Dear Bulletin, —By way of introduction,
I’m a landowner, with a good property;
last year I produced 30,000 bags of wheat
and ran 3000 sheep—and in doing so lost
over £lOOO.
The other day I was in the village truck-
ing some fat sheep to Homebusli, and went
to the Dago’s to have a bite.' Whilst I was
there a big six-cylinder coupe pulled up out-
side, and from it emerged a most elegant
young man, his sartorial appointments sur-
mounted by a handsome leather coat. I
could not help admiring this exquisite young
man and his outfit, and was wondering who
lie could be. I was not long in doubt—he
began booking an order for lollies and choco-
lates! I thought to myself. “Good Heavens,
what a futility! Here am I mucking around
among stock or toiling prodigiously in the
wheat season, rushing a feed now at the
Fre ,Me 4 to °do e tha g t • h and to il°S
magnificently upholstered’ young man travel-
ling around the country selling lollies. And
this in the midst of the greatest depression
Australia has known. Booking orders for
lollies ! And doing it with an air of pros-
1907 0- 1 lia ™ “ 0t e ™" dreamed ° f “““
is wrona hor, ' ibly wrw,g -
‘ ’ J
Child Endowment Burdens
“Tas.” : A large saving could be made by
the Federal Government in the ridiculous
child endowment allowance of £l3 per annum
to every member of the public service in
receipt of salary of less than £5OO The
exact extent of the burden never seems to
be known; but from the current financial
year’s estimates I find that a sum of no less
than £300,942 is paid. In the Military
Forces alone, warrant officers and lower
ranks (that is, excluding officers) mop up
£18,500. And £300,942 is not the full sum
either. Temporary employees who are mar-
ried arid who have children under the age
of 14 also receive the child endowment allow-
ance of £l3 per annum for each child under
14. The country cannot afford such a pay-
ment in these times. The principle is wrong,
too. Although the man who is married may
be a greater asset to the Commonwealth than
the single one, there are frequently good
reasons why single men do not and cannot
marry. The payment of the allowance upsets
all ideas of payment for merit. A stableman
with eight youngsters has his pay brought
up to that of, say, a skilled accountant.
W "“ e bugar , , , ■
The Sugar Agreement between the Com-
monwealth and Queensland Governments has
been signed; but not before it had aroused
fierce opposition. Of course the industry has
not always been wise; but it is equally true
that many of the most rabid opponents of
the agreement are either desperately ignorant
of many aspects of the Australian sugar
industry or are wilfully ignoring them.
Apart from the fact that it is the only
industry of its kind run by white labor
and directly employs 30,000 white rrgm and
women whose wages amount to £6,000.000
annually, it is of both a primary and a
secondary character. Most of the machinery
used on the farms and in the mills is made
in Australia—the mills alone contain
£11,000,000 of plant, of which over 70 per
cent, is Australian made, the balance com-
ing from Britain. The great majority of
the employees are of British blood, the pro-
portion in the mills being 100 per cent, and
in the field 90 per cent.—a sufficient answer
to the “Italian menace” bogey,
As to values, the annual production of raw
su S ar 18 worth over £10,000,000. The in-
crease of our export trade is recognised as a
vital necessity to right our adverse trade
balance. Every year the export of surplus
su S ar is valued at over £2,000,000. Aus-
tralian coastal shipping benefits by £750.000
annually from the trade. Queensland’s raw
su B' ar is refined, not only in that State and
i n N.S.W., but in Victoria, South Australia
and Westralia, finding employment for many
hundreds of inhabitants of those States,
Moreover, Queensland, depending largely on
primary production, has to go fm* manufac-
tured goods to the southern States, exchang-
in S' her sugar for southern goods.
Our Neglected Fisheries
«. of the w.rW« most
flourishin f industries, and nowhere is it
more , ne glected than in Australia. Climate
can have little to do with it, for countries
n Hich hotter than this and with far less C-.m-
-mand of refrigerating facilities make a profit-
tte prodS It the indns'tr? It Is’not,
£?e A rciiasi?Sf£
the Federal House the other night, that the
Australian eats only 141 b. per head of fresh
fish p.a. as against the 451 b. per head con-
sumed in Britain. But he makes up for his
shortage in the matter of the fresh article by
the quantity he eats of the tinned,
Australian waters, from Cape York to the
Lecuwin and round the other way, teem with
practically every variety found in the world,
for our big continent runs from the heart of
the tropics to semi-Antarctic waters. Among
thorn are many varieties which the Aus-
tralian is accustomed to import from abroad
instead of catching and canning. Many,
such as the pilchard and the true sardine,
are found m vast numbers in their season off
ou r coasts. Yet we continue to get our sar-
dines from France and Sweden. With our
southern waters full of the spiny lobster,
we import the canned variety put up by
Malay workers in Capetown, just as we
consume large quantities of smoked “snoek”
under the guise of South African haddock,
Our crab comes from Japan and our salmon
from Canada, and nowadays, in increasing
quantities, from Bolshevik factories in
Siberia. Salt and smoked fish of many varie-
ties from Britain and Holland go to make
up a tale too long to tell. Yet of all that
list, practically all except salmon might be
prepared and marketed in this country fresh-
caught from local waters.
The Austr alian, so vital and enterprising
; n some respects, is singularly lacking in
others, and his neglect' of his rich sea-
harvests is a striking example of the others
The likeliest explanation is that hitherto he
has found food in plenty come to him too
easily on ] an d to induce him to go seekin-
it. often in peril, on the sea
__
_ _
The Land and the Lesson
Dear Bulletin, —Graziers are cursing
banks, woolhrokcrs and Lord knows who for
their trials and tribulations ; but—with ex-
ceptions, of course—the sheepmen are them-
selves to blame for most of the moss thev
find themselves in. Too few of them have
made thrift their watchword Those who
have—the less socially ambitious as a rule
have in manv cases good sums on fixed
deposit and find the problem of balancin'.
the budget not half difficult. Of the older
men who are on the “wobble” a large pro-
poi’tion are those who, instead of looking to
business, made trips round the world, ox-
lived with their families in luxurious city
flats or hotels, and made sux-e that then-
names appeared regularly in the social
colxxmns of the papers. Another extrava-
gance they allowed themselves was to send
their offspring to costly colleges, where the
youngsters learnt the art of snobbei-y and
often returned to cast disdainful looks on
the country that paid for their education.
Generally speaking, a ti-ansformation will
have to come over the younger generation
of the pastoral industry, otherwise Aus-
tralia’s main primary industry will go to pot.
In blaming the banks, the thriftless pas-
toralists are biting the hand that fed them —
and is still feeding them. The average of
advances in the Moree district of N. S. Wales
is about £BOOO. Those who have been on
the land for ten years or over should not
owe one penny to the banks, for they had
the advantage of abnormally prosperous
years, with high wool prices. Manv of them,
however, considered overdrafts a permanent
accommodation. Now that the banks have
ordered them to reduce and submit estimates
of their expenditure, a squeal has gone up.
The pity is that the banks did not put the
screw on five years ago.
Under the new order graziers will be
taught to l-un their properties on business-
like lines and will occupy more of their time
caring for their flocks and riding the fences
than lazing away valuable months in the city,
or doing the sights of the w-orld on money
borrowed from banks or wool fii-ms on the
security of future clips.—Yours", Grazier.
Australia’s Income Taxes
Dear Bulletin, — The recently revised
Income Tax Assessment Act has caused
much feeling in these parts, and in view of
Australia’s need for overseas credit is likely
to make matters woi-se rather than better.
Most people who have spent years in the
tropics have eventually to retii-e to a moi-e
temperate climate. Because incomes dei-ived
from sources outside Australia were hitherto
free from tax, Australia enjoyed considerable
popularity with people leaving “the East”
permanently, and much new capital was
introduced in this manner. Two good Aus-
tralians—both millionaires in Sti-aits
currency—recently left Singapore for West-
ralia. Inside 12 months they had invested
the best part of £50,000, with a prospect
of much more to follow. In view of the
recent amendment to the Income Tax Act
neither is prepared to return there, and their
properties will be quietly realised and their
capital withdrawn.—Yours faithfully, John
Pestell, Singapore.
Tobacco in Tasmania
A sizeable experiment in tobacco-growing
is to be made in Tas. this year by the Jam
.Tones people, who have some out-of-commis-
sion liopfields in the Derwent valley eat-
ing their heads off, so to speak. Small test
plots planted last October have made good
growth during the season, and the crop
matured satisfactorily enough to encourage
the present larger venture. Over 100 acres
will be planted, and, as the co. has gained
valuable experience on its Ovens (Yic.) 114-
acre holding, especially in regax-d to the
successful dodging of the Australian tobacco-
culturist’s bitterest enemy, blue mould, the
experiment does not seem likely to fail. The
plants for the Ovens B. farm start life in
the dry Deniliquin (N.S.W.) district, and
are moved south -when three or four inches
high. Last year’s try-outs in the Derwent
valley indicate that Tas. humidity in Octn-
ber is not unduly hostile to the young plants,
and that fx-osts in Mai-eh are unlikely to
cause much damage to the ripened ci-op.
“Sylvestei*”: 'Wouldn’t it be a good idea
in these days of unemployment if all unions
had a clause in their rules compelling
members to wear Australian-made cloth-
ing? That would be helping the brother
unionist with a vengeance; and it might be
extended to tobacco.
* * * *
“Country Ped.” : The Doncaster West Co-
operative Cool Stoi-es (Vic.) must hold the
record for economical management. Financed,
ei-ected and run exclusively by and for the
district orchardists, the stores, with, a stor-
age capacity of 60,000 cases, are not in
debt —the only outstanding account last
year was one for 30s. But then the secretary-
manager gets only £l7 per annum !
*• * * *
“C. Coral”: A beverage that hasn’t yet
come upon the mai-ket is paw'paw wine; but
according to a good Australian up north it
rivals the product of the grape for flavor. It
is made from the fruit of the pawpaw-tree
just before it ripens, and has a champagne
touch about it. An excellent vinegar is also
procurable. We shall see both products
figuring commercially if the enterprising
experimenter has a chance to push them.
* * * *
“Ship’s Bugler”: Australia loses much
Customs revenue when overseas vessels
arrive here by allowing passengers’ friends to
go on board* before passengers have passed
the Customs officers and declared or paid duty
on dutiable articles. Many a fur coat and
much jewellei-y, clothing, shoes, etc., has
been brought into the Commonwealth by
bad Australians, and all Customs duty evaded,
by the simple process of the visitor wearing
the articles when going on shore. While
Australia does not want to become Ameri-
canised, it could, with advantage to the
Customs revenue, adopt the Yankee practice
of. not permitting passengers to see friends
until entirely clear of the ship and finished
with the Customs officials.
“Locked Out”: To-day on entering the
office of the Public Works Department at
Broken Hill I was confronted with a notice
informing me that orders on the Government
Savings Bank would not be taken in pay-
ment for rates. This is another of Mr.
Lang’s many ways of. improving the lot of
the workers, I suppose.
* * * 4t
“Burkroad”: The Commonwealth Govern-
ment alleges that one important l’eason why
it is not favorable to an appeal to the people
is the huge expense of a general election. For
an ordinary election £lOO,OOO is usually pro-
vided on the estimates. Less than half of
it should suffice. About 90 per cent, of the
officials who conduct the poll are public
servants; and the generous allowances
hitherto made to them should not be paid.
If they must be “compensated” for the extra
work;, “time off in lieu” should be granted.
:Ji ❖ ❖
“Frigid”: Neither America nor Queens-
land was first in the field with canned soup
(B. 13/5/’3l). In the “roaring days” an
enormous quantity of tinned goods were
imported and sent to the goldfields. Most of
it came from France, and a very popular
article was canned soup— bouilli. Inciden-
tally, our well-known “billycan” received its
typical Aussie name through this bouilti.
The tins of bouilli were of a handy size,
and after using the soup, thousands of
miners used the cans for cooking and other
purposes. Of course the word bouilli was a
bit of a tongue-twister to most diggers, and
they altered it to “billy.”


Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SAFETY AND PROFIT
SECURITY. There is no safer place in Australia for the
custody of the savings of the people than the
people's own Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank
of Australia.
SERVICE. Complete Savings Bank facilities are provided
throughout the whole Commonwealth, through Branches
in the principal towns and 4,000 Post Office Agencies.
INTEREST. Every account maintaining a balance from £ 1
upwards earns interest at the rate of 4% per annum.
Cbmmoitwcaltl) Saving JBank of Hustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government.)
g
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, bed and breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double.
All meals optional (also ,at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Inclusive board from
10/6 daily, or 66/- weekly.
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyon s
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. _ Please
write foe. tariff earn.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Gelt”: I handed .to an old native of
Buka (New Guinea) a photograph of a
group of native women taken in his village
and standing with their backs to the camera.
Long he studied the “snap,” vainly trying to
recognise them. Suddenly a light dawned
in his old, rheumy eyes, and he turned the
photo around to look at the back, there
expecting to, see their faces. There was a
grunt of disappointment as he saw the blank
surface. “Me no savvee along this fella,”
he said, and laid the picture down in dis-
gust.
“Pandhandler”: There is much loose writ-
ing about prospecting and fossicking these
days. The prospector opens new country;
the fossicker potters round .old work-
ings. As toways of washing, a pros-
pect (B: 20/5/’3l), the oldtimer does not
always use a dish. If he wishes to
sample the drift he has tapped he
may place a handful on the blade of
liis shovel, take it to the water*, swill
it round half a dozen times, 1 'rake off
the rubble, pan down the residue , and, flow-
ing the water gently over what remains, see
the tail of gold, if any. The billy lid also
is used in emergency. Pinching down a
section of the flange the fossicker washes
the dirt away, using the same cai*e as in
dish-washing. Washing a dolly prospect is
an art that must be learned by practice. It
is not taught by any of the correspondence
schools and can be acquired in but one way.
* * * •-!■ j
“Te W.”: The eucalyptus known as
“apple-tree” is generally reckoned to have
got its name through a resemblance in shape,
but, accoi*ding to “H.R.8.,” a scribe who had
BILL KNEW WHAT TEETH WERE FOR.
DOCTOR (to sheep-cocky suffering from indigestion ); “Yes, that’s right. Now let me
have a look at your teeth.”
SALTBUSH BILL: “I’m just rising 44, Doctor.”
something to say about Australia nearly a cen-
tury ago, the abos. extracted a kind of cider
from this particular gum. He saw a black
cut a hole with his tomahawk in the trunk
of one of these trees, apply his lips to the
hole, and swallow a clear, watery fluid.
“H.R.8.” drank some; it “tasted like the
rough cider generally used by the hard-
working laborers of Devonshire.” This in-
formation may be of service on hot summer
days when no pub is handy.
“Tauwarra”: I invited a neighbor
in Papua to kai-kai one day, but; he
slipped me up. Concluding that he
was on the sick list I called at his
place to see if I could be of any assist-
ance. As I mounted the steps his
cookboy stopped me with a warning
hiss. “What’s matter with Taubada?”
I whispered; “too much big fella
sick?” “No, Taubada,” . the lad
chuckled; “too much big fella goodi
luck!” And he bent his elbow and
winked. . v
% * * ’ ' * _
“Hamoss”: In the centre of the
main road from Narrandera (N.5.W..)
to Jerilderie, near Gillenbah, there is
a grave. Recently some local resi-
dents met and decided to replace the
ancient fence with a new-one and give
it a coat of paint. This action re-
vived discussion as to the identity of
the man whose remains lie in so un-
usual a spot. Some old hands stated
that he met his death while taking
part in a brawl at the Gillenbah
pub, but there is no record of subse-
quent criminal proceedings. An old
identity, at Narrandera claims to re-
member, .all .the circumstances, but
cannot remember the man’s name. He
says that the unknown was sinking a
tank when a fall of .earth caused his
death. He was buried in a paddock,
and it was;.not until the railway to
Jerilderie was established that , the
road was constructed. The grave was
found to be in a position about the
centre of the road and it was left undis-
turbed.
# * # *
“Wang”: “Th’ greatest fright I ever got,”
said Dan, “wus one night I wus camped
be meself in an empty house up in th’ hills
miles away from any other place. It wus
a two-roomed crib an’ had a wooden floor.
I made meself a doss on th’ floor, an’ bein’
dog-tired soon fell asleep. I dunno what it
wus woke me up, but there I lies, listenin’. It
wus as black as th’ inside of a abo.’s pocket,
an’ I couldn’t see anything. Then I hears
a sort of slitherin’ sound on th’ floor. A
snake, thinks I, and lights a bit of candle.
It was a snake, all right. Me boots was
standin’ together a few feet from me bunk;
pretty ole crabs they were, _ too. An’ there
with his head poked down inside th’ top of
one of them wus a six-foot copper-head.
He makes orf when he hears me; but I got
him with a stick from th’ fireplace. After
chuckin’ him outside I blows out th’ light
an’ goes t’ sleep agen. I dunno how long
I’d been snoozin’ th’ second time, but I
woke up sudden. It wasn’t slitherin’ I
heard this time —it wus th’ sounds of draggin’
footsteps in th’ room. They wus movin’
about close to me bed. I stood it as long
as I could, an’ then lit th’ candle an’ looked.
There wasn’t anybody there. Then as I
gawks around I gets another shock. Me
boots starts shufflin’, with sorter little hops
.in-between, across th’ floor. I nearly fainted.
Theyhad , got half-way. across th’ room,
headin’, in diff’rent directions, when I forced
meself up. an’ grabbed a stick. Then both
me boots went .mad, an’ started bobbin’ about
tlx’ floor, ‘ anV little sorter squeals came from
them. I nearly dropped th’ candle. Then
I made a rush, an’,. strike me lucky, what
do I find? Th’/ head; an’ shoulders of a
rat stickin’ out of th’ holes in th’ toes of
th’ boots. Th’;■ holes, wus just big enough
t’ allow them t’ get their-front legs through.
Th’ snake I’d killed" wus ( th’ cause of it.
He’d been - after th’ rats, an’.' they had
tried t’ bolt, through, th’-holes in th’ toes;
but they wus too big to get right through.”
**■, * ■ *
“Katiti”: “Tiki” (B. 22/4/’3l), on the
strength of the discovery of a Maori oven
on the slopes of‘Egmont, suggests that the
first ai’rival of Maoris in . M.L. occurred
as long ago as'3ooo years. If this is cor-
rect the first arrivals must have died out
before the immigrants of 400 years ago. for
there is no record of their descendants hav-
ing .been encountered. The Maoris have
a tradition that two non-Maori races in-
habited M.L. several centuries before the
Morioris. The first race were known as
“Hawea”; a dark-skinned race with thick
cui’ly hair. These people probably came
from the neighborhood of Papua, and a .. re ?Pj
nant of them were probably the wild
Indians” mentioned by Captain Cook as liv-
ing in the West Coast Sounds district. The
second lot were named “Te Rapuwai.” They
had ruddy skins and red hair, and inter-
marriage with them is one feasible explana-
tion of the occasional outcrop of golden-
haired Maoris which has caused much
controversy. It is peculiar that no one
suggests an indigenous population for M.L..
though Australia, Papua and the Islands all
have distinctive aboriginal inhabitants.
HIS LOST AFFINITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I never had a wife,” said Dan, “not any
time or anywheres.
That ain’t to say, though, that I never had
what some blokes call ‘affairs;’
Too right, I’ve had me courtin’ days, the
same as you, in bush and town,
An’ thought I’d found me soul-mate once;
but, spare me days, she turned me down.
“A bouncin’ piece o’ goods she was. You
mustn’t think that this implies
What won me was her rosy cheeks or radiant
smile or' sparklin' eyes.
I never banked a lot on looks. The little
things a jane can do
They always counted more with me than
bein’ fair to outward view.
“That’s poetry I’m quotin’, eh? Well, if
it was, I didn’t .know;
I might perhaps have got it from some old
School Reader long ago.
But anyway she wasn’t that. An’ face an’
figure anyhow ’. . /-■
I reckon triflin’ things. beside the way a girl
can milk a cow. . *
“But lots of ’em were slick at that, and
most of .’em were middlin’ good
Among the milk an’ butter, too, ours bein’ a
cocky neighborhood.
I used to cart ’em round to hops, but none
could set my pulse a-stir
(The way a lovei*’s oughter go) until the
'day I happed on hei*.
“What made me realise, you ask, that she
was diff’rent from the rest?
Just this: The way she killed a sheep an’
had the carcase skinned an’ dressed.
If keeled me over on the spot—l’d just
dropped in to see her dad.
She didn’t know I watched her work. I
doubt she’d troubled if she had.
THE GUG-GREAT MYSTERY.
BILL: “Here, y’better not go in there now. That place has been took. It’s a school for
stammerers now.”
BUBBOB: “Cu-cripes! Wha-what do bub-blokes want tut-to learn stammering fuf-for[?]”
“Within a week I’d kissed the girl. S’truth!
but I made the runnin’ fast.
I felt I’d found me—what’s the word? —me
true affinity at last.
Gawd, how I burned to make her mine! She
strung me on—the usual biz—
An’ then she changed her mind an’ let a
blinkin’ curate make her his.
“Seems curious what such a girl could ever
see in such a man. , .
I’ll swear he couldn’t rate her worth as
high as I,” concluded Dan.
“But there it was—he queered me pitch an'
knocked me dreams of marriage flat.
I never met another jane could’kill and dress
a sheep like that.”
N.S.W.
PIPABDS.


f
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and O. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. Of AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H Fell*
Head Office: P. & 0. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
M
Leipzig Trade Fair
The Greatest and Most Cosmopolitan of all
Trade Fairs (Twice Yearly).
Visitors will not experience the slightest difficulty with the Language,
Matters of Freight, Duties or Banking. The Organisers of the
Leipzig Trade Fair are always on hand to help, courteously and
efficiently, on all questions pertaining to purchasing and business
negotiation.
TEXTILE, ENGINEERING AND
BUILDING FAIRS COMMENCE AUGUST 30.
The W.E.Z. Organisation will gladly supply you with names, addresses
and full particulars of reputable German Export Houses.
fi
“Summer in Germany is the Perfection of the Beautiful.
Inquiries cordially invited and full information given by
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
’Phones: 144006, MW2201.
C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Post Office Place, Melbourne, Victoria.
n
“E.K.P.”: There are very few white men
who have been initiated as members of
an abo. tribe. The Rev. D. A. Brown, who
IT WAS MONDAY.
OLD NICK: “Well —any complaints to make?”
NEW ARRIVAL: “Oh, no, no! It’s a lovely drying day, isn’t it?”
ministers to the Scotchbyterian flock at
Goondiwindi (Q.), is one. A few years ago
he lived in a North Westralian district where
it was the custom when a young abo. was
initiated to knock a certain front tooth out.
Mr. Brown had this tooth missing. The abos.
noticed it, and a corroboree was held in his
honor.with a subsequent big feast, at which
he was given the abo. equivalent of the free-
dom of the" district.
* * * *
“Sebrof”: We are told that what is left of
the abo. population of Vic. is to be found at
Lake Tyers. Yet about
25 years ago, east of
Omeo, east of Hinno-
munjie Bridge and east
of that again ever the
Mitta Mitta, there was
a persistent rum o r
among the fossickers
and prospectors that
there swas a carefully
concealed,: tribe of abos.
in the {hills. . Lights
were I seen i, in places
where: there was 'no
reason for their' being,
and periodically- a lonely
member of the scattered
community would- dis
appear in a manner
alleged to be mysteri-
ous. The -legend arose
that a tribe of black-
fellows possessed ot
some , intelligence anu
racial spirit had retired
many years ago to a
well concealed hollow
in the hills,, and were
in the hab'it'of snaring
an occasional lonely
white man. With tin
revival of gold-seeking,
gullies long deserted
are attracting popula-
tion, and tne old legend
has also revived. Un-
accountable lights have
been seen again, but so
far no one has been re-
ported missing. It
seems a tall and easily
explained story when
heard in a tramcar or
the smoking-room of a
club, but if you aro
camped on your Pat
Malone along the upper
reaches of the Mitta
Mitta, and a light
appears in a place
where there is no one
to kindle it, it makes you thoughtful.
$ $ $
“M.L.C.”: Cockchafers? A Tas. farmer
claims to have discovered a simple method
of exterminating them. Having captured a
young bandicoot that fell from its mother’s
pouch when his dog chased it, he took it
home and made a little nest for it in the
kitchen. When the ’chafers emerged at dusk
the youngster also crept forth and helped
himself to a solid meal. Next morning the
kitchen floor w-as strewn with corpses, and
after a few nights of ruthless slaughter
thcre was not one cockchafer to be found,
In England hedgehogs are kept for the same
pm pose, so it is not unreasonable to expect
a bandicoot to indulge in similar orgies. The
same farmer contends that the bandicoot
is a noble animal and the friend of man
rather than a pest to be shot at sight, since
he feeds largely on grubs, maggots and other
INTERNAL COMBUSTION.
Boss: “I’m, glad I never hear you swearing, Jacky.”
JACKY: “No. But cripes, Boss, you hear this fella thinkin’ sometimes you get plurry
big s’prise!”
insects. It appears, however, to be a moot
point whether his staple diet is grubs, and
he merely adds a light salad of peas and
potatoes, or whether his preference is for
vegetables, with a taste for grubs as a
hors-d’a , uvre. ’
, * *
“J.D.”: Notable that while the Austra-
lian aborigine inhabits much of the known
gold-bearing territory of the West and North
he has not learned the value of the metal.
Even now, after all his years of association
with the prospector, he will swap an ounce
speck for a plug of tobacco and think he has
made a good deal. The first gold in the
big mass found in Australia was located by
a native in the employ of Dr. Kerr, of
Bathurst, in July, 1851. This, in three
pieces, weighed - lfcwt. and yielded 19200 z.
of gold. At the time of finding the speci-
men Louisa Creek was being combed by gold-
hunters following on the announcement by
Hargraves (Feb., 1851), and a party of
these came on the boy before he could get
a message by his companion to his master
in Bathurst. Tommy quickly covered his
find . with dirt and lit his fire on the pile.
When questioned by the white men he knew
nothing of gold; his business was minding
sheep, and the prospectors pushed on unin-
formed. The outstanding abo. prospector
was Christy Palmerston’s boy Romeo. . The
only other instance of direct discovery by
a native is that of the Wealth of Nations
(Coolgardie, W.A.), the big gold being
located by John Dunn’s boy. The Wealth
was one of the most surprising of the many
false alarms sent out from the possibly-still-
rich area.
Hs He He
“Harold Hardupp”: There were no boughs
on the fringing shrubs that over-arched the
little stream, but a spider had suspended liis
moving lines across the water. I broke a
couple of the hawsers and waited. The spider
got out to the top of a bough over his nets, let
himself down at the end of a long rope until
he was very near the water, and then com-
menced to swing. The gentle pendulum move-
ment increased rapidly ; suddenly he let out
an extra inch and connected with a twig on
the opposite bank. After that his job was
a simple one; and the web was shortly taut
again in the position best likely to intercept
the insects that hover over water. In addi-
tion to his knowledge of mechanics the spider
is a keen student of natural history. Noting
that moths and other small fliers swarm
round a street light nearly opposite my flat, a
member of the eight-legged tribe has built
traps between the globe and the shade. The
light is many feet above the ground, and Mr.
Spider must have done some tall climbing
and hard thinking in order to take advantage
of the opportunity provided.
“Cairngorm”: The folk of my race show
a nice turn of imagination in the construc-
tion of family legends. The glory of my
line centres in great-uncle David. What
is fairly certain about David is that he was
a scion of a moderately well-to-do Scottish
family and was shipped to Australia because
he made his native Fifeshire too hot to hold
him. The rest of the yarn hasn’t a scin-
tilla of corroborative evidence to support
it, but it is firmly believed by most Austral-
asian members of my family. Here it is,
for its points as fiction. David entered the
Government service in Tas., became a very
high official, but got sick of the job, married
his cook, a very masterful Scotswoman, and
settled on the land in Vic. Under the influence
of my great-aunt, who knew that David was
next in line of succession to one of the
oldest earldoms in Scotland, and feared to
lose her husband, who was socially so much
above her, David became a sort of recluse,
discouraging visitors and conversing with
none save his wife and children. His first-
and second-born were sons. Their mother,
who had the second 'sight, knew they must
both die young, but David laughed at her.
On one of his infrequent visits to Melbourne,
. which occupied a week, the children got
playing in the creek and both were drowned.
The mother buried them, having none to
help her, and when David returned showed
him—-silently, for she was a dour woman- —
the two little mounds. Years later —here’s
a nice effective touch—the railway came that
way. Its course ran straight over the two
graves, but a sentimental chief surveyor
made a deviation: David lived on at his
lonely farm, and more children came, six or
seven of them. Then one day, when David
was off to Melbourne again, there arrived
at the farm two lawyers to announce that
David's elder brother was dead and that
David was Earl of Mcßrose, Lord of Kin-
foozle and Baron Clackahackett. David's wife
looked them in the eye. “Aye,” she said,
“that's ma guidman’s name, but hoots he’s
nae earl. lie was a grocer-body in Wigan
when we were marriet.” And so these very
easily-satisfied limbs of the law went back
to the city, and I lost my chance of claiming
kinship with the peerage.
RECKLESS JIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“You see old Jim across the road? He isn’t
much to look at now.
When he was young his father died and
left him Moonatildayow,”
Said Drowsy Jack, addressing me outside
a pub at Trundalee.
“Yes, left him miles of. land and sheep when
grass was good and hands were cheap.
They say the old man left a heap of cash
for Jim, as well.
But soon he set a welter pace, neglected
work and let the place
Go clean to pot—a damn disgrace, I’ve
heard his banker tell.
A brainless colt he must have been. Like
sizzlin’ flame along a . fuse
Laid underneath a magazine, Jim blew that
property in booze. ......
“Jim toiled for other squatters then, blew
up his cheques, but, talk of luck!
He drew the first horse ,in a sweep—five
thousand quid—when he 'was stuck,”
Sighed Jack, recalling from the past a
month of revelry ablast.
“Ilis constitushun must be ..sound; he stood
’em up, round after round
Of beers for weeks; it cost a pound each
time he spoke; bars seldom shut
While Jim could rise and sign his' name.
Now things are .bad and lookin’ tame,.
Ah, well. I oughtn’t to complain, for
after all I had' my cut.
When Jim is holdin’, big or small, till down
and-out he never stops: J.
And clear as daylight I recall that prize
was busted clean , in hops.
“Jim’s rowdy days are faded out; that last
affair of his was crook —-
You bait him now, and, strike, me. roan, he’ll
swallow sinker, line and hook.
Thi •ee-seasons back some dealer cove gave
.Tim a mob of - sheep, to drove
To Cootamundra. Gear and horse and dogs
were found for him, of course,
To save the old chap from remorse and
get him out of town.
He took deliv’ry of the flock from somewhere
out by Granite Rock;
At Mogong pub he lost his block; pulled
up to keep one down,
Then stayed and let the whole mob clear.
Half-way to Cootamundra Jim
Lost all his kit and campin’ gear, and drank
the horse from under him!”
N.s.w.
GERARDY.


It is proposed to convert all Commonwealth and State Government securities
into 4 per cents.
How will holders of the different classes of bonds fare?
What will be the effect on life offices? ,
Can the youngsters survive?
What of share prices generally?
Dividends and the exchange question.
These, and other vital problems for the investor, are discussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY” for June.
June Issue
on Sale
Saturday
June 6
2/-
SINGLE COPY.
226
a year post free.
From Newsagents,
o r “B ull eti n”
Office, Sydney,
Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
“Boxer turns parson.”— Cable.
And why not? He, no doubt, lias a perfect
right.
“Three proT-ang' candidates are in the field against
Long,- the pio-Seullin member lor Lang.”'
Long sits for Lang, the place where Labors
strong.
,To tip the period for which he’ll stay
Is risky. Prophecies are often wrong.
But this at least seems pretty safe to say,
Quaint though it seems: Lang won’t be
Long’s for long
If only Mr. Lang can have his way.
* H-
Advt.:—
Be Patriotic —Drink Australian Spirits.
Arid help to make the ghost walk for your
own countrymen.
CHARACTER FROM HANDWRITING.
“Moronia’s” delineations for “Smoke-oli’
readers are the most unparalleled, stagger-
ing, penetrating Here, judge for your-
I • illy" (N. Syd.).—ll as ability, Christian
meekness in face of slights, and £25,000.
Try to get over that, diffidence, Billy. Be
more assertive. Get the office-urge. Start
another party. And when you do, Beware
the Hide of Marks.
Press Beauty. —Has ever shrunk, flower-
like, from seeing her name in print. All
your winsome messages to press girls, all
the meals you stand them, are aimed at keep-
ing yourself and belongings out of the news.
It is developing into a complex, Beauty, and
you must fight against it. Send the papers a
few photos taken towards the end of last cen-
tury, -and trust to the retouchers art to
modernise them. Give details of your alleged
work in aid of the Home for Ailing Wom-
bats, or whatever your pet charity may be.
Describe your dresses and furniture. A well-
bred dislike of vulgar limelight-chasing has
handicapped you for nearly 60 years, and
it is time you conquered it, my girl.
A.F.A. —You are a loathsome parasite, a
venomous reptile, a brainless octopus batten-
ing on the thoughtful and intelligent worker,
and worse in all respects than one of the
foul Bligh-street brood. Tom Bavin is an
angel compared to you. Nurtured in igno-
rance, stupidity, malice and slander, yon
have not hesitated for your own unscrupu-
lous ends to drive your poisoned fangs into
the hand that raised
you from the slime
of your native
obscurity; and, if
you don’t believe my
diagnosis, read the
“Labor Daily.”
Most Striking
Character of
the Week.
Labor Voter. —
You have a saintly
nature, being so con-
stituted that you be-
lieve all you are
told. The Early
Fathers placed this
idiosyncrasy (the
Gift of Faith) at
the head of the .spiri-
tual virtues. You
are the true answer
to every professional,
democrat’s prayer,
and if I weren’t a
taxpayer I could
wish there were more
of you. You swal-
low oceans of lies
and come up smiling
for more. Your
generosity is such
that you support
hordes of foreign
adventurers at the
Trades Hall in
luxury, while you
and your Aussie
family starve. Just a leetle weak on the
mental side, old man, but then you wouldn’t
be your lovable, child-like self if it were
otherwise.
D.
* *
“In the Broken Hill police court an order for
ejectment was made against Thomas Hawkes on the
application of Joseph Hammer.”
The pen is mightier than the sword, they say.
The hammer, too, occasionally talks
More to the point than deadlier weapons
may;
For on the Barrier the other day
It outed tommyhawks.
NATURAL HISTORY ITEM.
“He shook like a jolly-fish.’-’— “Sun”
This quaint denizen of the deep, some-
times known as the sole of wit, is a whale
for jokes, and sometimes puts a few in
whiting. As he only gets a few sprats for
these from the “Sun” fish, he is usually down
at eels, but that doesn’t crab his style, and he
is funny enough at times to make a catfish
laugh, especially with his jokes about the
closing of the oyster banks and his dealings
with the jewfish. He may be a bit of a
sponge, but it is impossible to knock him off
his perch ; and if he does seem a snapper-up
of triples it must be remembered that he has
to flounder in some way or another, arid
pay for fill he gets C-.O.I).
, H. M.
“The Federal Government intends to seek an
internal long-term loan of £12,000,000.”
—Sydney “Telegraph
The general impression is that it has had
a loan of us for too long already.
THE MAN WHO CAN SAY WHEN.
MERGE: “Don’t you admire the man who
always says the right thing at the right
time?"
PERCE: “Rather! Some fellows, you know,
when you go to see them, would let
you die of thirst!”
“Dr. Arthur, the ‘Eat More Fruit’ M.L.A., was
unable to attend owing to indisposition.”
Another case of “An apple a day keeps
the doctor away”?
if *
“Australians will yet take their seats again at
the feast of plenty.” —London “Mail.”
At' present, unfortunately 300,000 of us
only have waiters’ jobs.
if. if
“A high degree of interest has been aroused by
the revival of the export of Australian pork.
. — “Argus.”
The race which is identified with high
interest remains unmoved on the subject.
if if
“Where can you point to the Perfect Woman?”
' —“Sunday Guardian."
Off-hand, we would identify her as the
deceased wife of a cove who hasn’t had the
sense to remain a widower.
get-together broadcasts.
Following the broadcasting of peace pro-
paganda by children of all nations, I am
arranging to disseminate speeches in favor
of the extermination of politicians, and have
prepared the following, which will be put.
on the air by the heir to the O Cohen debts.
Edward Kelly O’Cohen, aged 12, before next
Guy Fawkes Day :
“Hullo, all you kids of the world. Give poor
old Guy’a rest this year. Remember he was only-
trying to do his duty, and think how much better
off we’d all be if he had succeeded. Celebrate
the day by tarring and feathering your local
member, or by throwing stink-bombs into the Town
Hall, or wherever 'it is that your local ratbags
“We all know that the grown-ups have let this
problem slide, so it’s up to us. Let s make a goo
job of it. Don’t waste money on the talkies.
Buy detonators instead, and give your politicians
a.run for their money.
“My old man says politics are a curse, and he
should know, having belonged to every party that
ever had any money or soft jobs to give away.
He says political parties arc all the same. bo
matter how much graft a man does for them its
only the heads who get the pickings.
“Good-bye all, and don’t let up on your old man
until he gets you a sawn-oif shotgun or a coupla
pounds of dynamite.”
Angus O’Cohen.
WASTE OF WORK.
“Mr Richardson said it was a farce to retain
a committtee that did no work when the Government
could do it.” — Melbourne. “Argus.”
Such 'wanton waste while our exchequa s
low , , , ,
Must lead our burdened land one day to
rue it;
Besides, when there’s no work to do, we
know
How toell the present Government van
doit! m.G.
V f
THE BOOMING INDUSTRY.
“The depression isn’t hurting me,” boasted
the stranger, and paid for another round of
drinks.
“You’re lucky.” , , ..
“Yes. I’m. doing better and better. Ini
’em up again, Gert. I can afford it.
“Are you a civil servant, by any chance t
“Pah!” ’
“An M.D.A.? A city alderman? A union
organiser?” , T ,
“I make more money than any of em. i m
a supplier of ‘To Det’ signs.
* #
NO CERTAINTY.
“You simply cannot tell hovv a woman will behave
these days.”— Melbourne magistrate.
Brightly his shaft of wisdom gleams,
And with it no one quarrels:
“However strict a lady seems,
Morals are never ‘morals’!’
“The depression has made a big change.” “Sun.
And left us very short of small change.
“Suit for £4so,ooo,ooo ”—“Westralian”
Must be an inflation sale special.
FOR POLITICAL CHILDREN ONLY.
Sing a song of sixpence,
The Government is broke:
Eleven hundred millions
Gone up in the smoke.
Nothing in the Treasury,
And nothing can be got —
No more loans, I mean to say,
Golly, ain’t it hot!
Teddy's in the counting-house,
Trying to make money;
•Timmy’s in the talking-shop,
Tongue as sweet as honey;
Caucus is in conference —
Hear it skitc and shout;
Along comes Australia
And kicks the roasters out.
* ¥
Bavin and Lang appear to be trying to
out-twit each other.
¥ *
Recent figures indicate that the defence of
England has gone up in the air.
¥ *
AS IT WILL BE.
And Prince Charming gathered up the
Beautiful Princess in his arms and rode
with her to N. S. Wales, where they lived
happily for ever afterwards on the child
endowment and the dole.
M[?]
1941.
(By the “Daily Garble’s'" Special Repre-
sentative with the Fleet.)
Stand by ! Salute!! Out of the grey, encir-
cling mists of morning comes the Australian
Fleet. What a spectacle of puissance and
majesty! What, a warning to those who
would dare our inviolate shores! Beauty!
Power! Terror! These be the gages of defi-
ance dashed by the Australian Navy in
review at the feet of temerarious foreigners.
Admiral Broadsides, R.N., has made the
Horse Punt his flagship, and now from
the scarred sides of the mother-ship he looks
down upon her floating brood with pride.
ANOTHER “GENTLEMAN’S AGREEMENT"
“No, I couldn’t accept a cheque, sir. Yer see, there’s a nunner-
standing atween me and the banks that I cash no cheques
an’ they sell no ’ot dogs!”
To the thunder of throw-downs and hungers
the ships stagger by in graceful sequence.
When the garbage punts wheeze slowly past
two abreast the heavens are rent with a
cheer that must surely carry to our back-
woodsmen a message of assurance and
safety! River dredges, lighters, tugs, con-
demned ferry-boats, all component parts of
one mighty whole, follow the asthmatic gar-
bage vessels. ,
In that mighty picture the spirit, of Nelson
is a living, sentient thing! Hark to the
men! “Three cheers for the Seullin Govern-
ment.” The basely ungrateful electors may
turn on the nation’s saviours, but these brave
fellows never will forget that it was the
patriotic and far-seeing administration of
Jim Seullin and Ted Theodore that made
the Commonwealth Navy the thing of pride
and splendor it is to-day.
MCM.
LAUGHTER IN COURT.
: “A Melbourne barber, by a witty quip at the
Chief Justice’s expertise, was relieved of duty on the
jury.”
It recalls Rex v. Claude ('‘Knuckle-
duster”) Coppitt. The jury had found Cop-
pitt guilty of battering his wife to death
with a Welsh rarebit. Before passing- sen-
tence, his Honor remarked that accused, for
a confirmed criminal, possessed a remarkable
knowledge of the law, whereupon accused
retorted that had he possessed his Honor s
knowledge he would have been an even
more successful criminal. The Judge laughed
uproariously and sentenced the jester to the
rising.
Again, take Arthur Ardcaise, co-re. in
Towser v. Towser. In reply to a question by
the Judge, the co-re., who was a boarder,
said that the parties led a dogs life. The
husband was always growling at his wife,
while the wife snarled at the husband. On
one occasion she bit him. He [tire co-re.J
was. the bone of contention. They just
scratched for a living. His Honor, between
spasms of uncontrollable mirth, dismissed
the case, with costs against the plaintiff
There is one sad case, however, m which
a joke rebounded on the perpetrator. This
was where at witness before Judge Curlew is,
asked by the astounded Judge if he
didn’t know what a gargoyle was, replied
that he wasn’t aware of the type of girl his
H'onor meant. He wasn’t very well
acquainted with American slang terms. On
coming to, after splitting an infinitive, Ins
Honor gave witness life for contempt.
S. W. K.
CITY TRAGEDY.
A morbid crowd bad gathered, as crowds
will on such occasions, pressing closely to
catch a view of the mutilated body. Strangely
silent, they gaped, fascinated, at the pathetic
victim of a soul-revolting brutality. A man
in authoritative tones ordered them back,
but nobody moved. Were they thinking oi
the agonised sounds that had burst from
ANOTHER GUILTY CONSCIENCE.
NEW CURATE ( seeing the village simpleton
for the first time ): “A little short,
I’m afraid.”
BUTCHER: “Gam, now. Fancy you noticin’
that! Well, it wasn’t more’n about hall
a pound, anyway.”
her in her last moments? Were they rain-
ing impeachments against the callousness or
mankind? Who knows?
And now n man in the crowd spoke ? to
the fellow-gazer next to him. l, H’m Ive
seen some crook used-cars put up in rue time,
but this dam’ thing’s the worst yet!”
S. W. K.


a
©J=C©
ru
A body of local manufacture
for every haulage requirement
BUILT TO LAST
Product of 15 years’ continuous development of the
Speed Wagon idea, this Reo exemplifies the most
advanced truck engineering.
Its famous Reo Gold Crown Engine can be relied
upon for smooth, abundant power throughout an
exceptionally long life.
The chrome nickel alloy iron in the cylinder block
is seven times harder than ordinary cylinder block
metal. The low-expansion aluminium alloy pistons
outlast all others.
Speed Wagon superiority in engineering can be
proved. Let us submit the convincing facts.
Reo Trucks in 14 wheelbase sizes provide a sturdy, depend-
able chassis for 93% of all hauling needs and for ’buses of
various passenger capacities. Load capacities from f-ton
up through the heavy-duty range.
REO STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
171 175 William Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Queen’s Bridge Square, Melbourne, Vic.
REO MOTORS (SALES), LTD.,
96-100 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
DENNY BROS., LTD.,
439-447 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
Barry Parade, The Valley, Brisbane, Queensland.
REO
SPEED WAGONS
AND TRUCKS
REO MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
LANSING


INVEST IN THE LAND
Wool-growing must continue to be the main Australian
Industry for many years.
Queensland offers good opportunities to acquire comparatively
cheap sheep country, and costs of production in that State
are steadily coming down.
We can offer properties with good tenure and carrying
capacities varying from 3000 up to 50,000 Sheep.
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES AND
MORTGAGE COMPANY LIMITED
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville.
NEXT WEEK’S WAGES
Open a"cheque account ”
for you at the P.P.B.
i The P.P.B. pays interest oil
current accounts—get into
cheque circles with a bank
deposit. Cheques are safe-
guards for payment and in-
duce thrift—they eliminate
loss.
Have a Bank Account—Keep it
Growing.
Get interest on your current
account at
A
Rtc 'd i V J l\J Q
1
•v
z
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 105
Branches throughout
at
PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
the Commonwealth and
London.
THE
ON THELAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S MEAL
THE IDEAL DAIRY HERD.
“Alf. Alpha” : Dairymen regard eight years
or thereabouts as the age at which a cow
is in the stage of maximum production. The
average age of a heifer on her first calf
would approximate two years and a half,
and it may -be assumed that at 12 or 13
years a cow ceases to be an economical pro-
position. There are exceptions to every rule.
The age at which the average milch cow
“misses” is a moot point.
Suppose we say that two years and a
half is the average age of a grade heifer
on her first calf, that eight years is the
year of maximum production and that
13 years is the age of decline. Assume
further that every cow in the herd is of
similar high grade, yielding like amounts of
milk of good quality. Then the mode of
procedure would be to have an equal num-
ber of heifers and cows of various ages in
the herd so that the average age of the herd
would be eight years. To illustrate: in an
ideal herd of 110 cows there would be 10 heif-
ers rising three years, 10 rising four years,
and so on down to 10 cows rising 13 years,
the total age of the herd being 880 years
and the average age 880 divided by 110 —
eight years. Annually 10 cows at i 3 years
of age would be sold and 10 heifers on their
fir.st calf would join the herd. This method
would, if carried out in entirety, produce
a herd of the ideal average age. In prac-
tice, however, it is hardly possible; first,
because the losses from ordinary mortality
are not taken into account, and, second,
the scheme is based upon each cow produc-
ing a calf annually. In the ordinary grade
dairy herd many cows are retained after
reaching the age of 13 years, and this fact
may be taken as an offset to the misses.
In actual practice—on many dairy farms, at
least —the annual renewals exceed 20 per
cent., yet instances are known where th
do not approach 10 per cent. In the latter
case the average age of the herd could not
be regarded as the best ever, and the Bab-
cock tester would be an unknown quantity.
The bull? Well, the sire in the ideal
dairy herd should be a pure-bred from a cow
with a high butter-fat record. He must
be young, preferably not more than five
years, for old bulls become too heavy for
the heifers, and there is the danger of in-
breeding. One of the most scientific and
successful dairymen in Victoria, the late
Hubert Miller, of Bacchus Marsh, once told
me that maximum results in dairying de-
pended as much upon the average age of the
herd and the age and calibre of the sire as
upon anything else.
IMPROVING RIVERINA PASTURES.
“L.W.M.” : A pioneer of pasture improve-
ment in the Riverina, Mr. G. Hutchings, of
Yerong Creek, lias obtained results which
should be of interest to landowners through-
out south-west N. S. Wales. A mixture of
subterranean clover and Wimmera rye grass
has proved to be particularly useful for fat-
tening early lambs. Nine hundred acres
sown with this mixture will carry more than
twice the number of stock carried by unim-
proved native pastures.
An area sown with lucerne and Wimmera
rye grass (21b, of each per acre) is an ideal
supplement to the subterranean clover and
Wimmera rye-grass pasture, the lucerne pro-
viding abundance of summer feed, the sub-
terranean clover and Wimmera rye grass
showing greatest growth in winter and spring.
Lucerne and Wimmera rye grass have been
recognised as the most valuable pasture
mixture for the Riverina; Mr. Hutchings’s
experience shows that for certain districts,
at least, the addition of subterranean clover
is to be recommended. He is experimenting
now to discover a cheap means of establishing
pastures. After harvesting a crop of wheat
last December, Wimmera rye grass, subter-
ranean clover and lucerne at 21b., lUb. and
21b. per acre respectively were mixed with
901 b. super, per acre and sown directly on
stubble land by means of a disc drill with-
out other cultivation. All seeds struck well
and growth has been very satisfactory.
WILD COTTON-BUSH.
“Mulyan” : Some out-back pastoralists vote
for wild cotton-bush as superior to all other
fodder plants, either native or imported. It
fs doubtful if there is anything that is more
resistant to drought ; it flourishes m the
driest parts and keeps stock in good condi-
tion when other vegetation has disappeared.
But it does not grow so well outside the
hot and arid regions, to which it is pecu-
liarly adapted. The whole of the plant,
roots, stems and leaves, is eaten by sheep
and cattle. The whole plant also has been
cut into chaff, mixed with mulga, and car-
ried on dry roads by teamsters, their bul-
locks or horses being fed and worked on it
for weeks at a time.
Wild cotton-bush is a sturdy shrub of sil-
very appearance, the leaves growing on long
stems. The seed is enveloped in a cottony,
woolly stuff that bursts when ripe and shows
a mass of white like cultivated cotton. The
bark is excellent fibre, from which the blacks
make cord and nets. In suitable places the
plant is easily propagated from seed, and
if spread over dry runs it would immensely
improve their carrying capacity. Like a
great many Australian trees and shrubs,
it is difficult to transplant, and should be
grown from seed where it is wanted. It is
found in patches from the drier parts of
N.S.W. to the Northern Territory.
SUPER. IN THE STOCK LICK.
“Western District”: I disagree with the
stock-lick formula recommended by xeo-
man” (B. 13/5/’3l). Super, is a chemical
preparation which is not used in licks by
the farmer nor the trade, because it is too
liable to scour. Nature’s phosphate is most
probably the mineral apatite (tri-calcic phos-
phate), and the nearest approach to this as a
supplement for phosphorus and lime in stock-
licks is boncmeal.
The best plan is to let the super, make
the bone — i.e., by top-dressing the pastures.
Where this is not practicable—as, for
example, in the runs outback —use the bone-
salt lick, and (this is important) let it,be
by self-choice. Too much of a good tmng
hi not good for either man or beast. Let
the daily ration be good food.
A leading Vic. grazier informed me
recently that sheepmen were blaming the
top-dressing of pastures with super, for_the
serious increase in wormy lambs. This
theory is probably based on the belief of our
forefathers that rich food begot worms in
the children, and the remedy suggested is
alternate top-dressing with super, and lime.
Personally, I believe in top-dressing as much
as possible with bonedust, particularly
sheep pasture, for then the pasture would: be
improved and the bone would be on the
ground for the woollies as and when re-
quired. Common salt would be served neat
in the troughs, as usual.
MARGOSA OIL FOR BLOWFLY.
Captain Wallace Westland, of Trineoma-
lee, Ceylon, who last year suggested to The
Bulletin that oil from the seed of the
margosa-tree might be the long-sought blow-
fly remedy, is visiting N. S. Wales. He
is no stranger to Australia (having, in fact,
married a Sydney girl) nor to New Guinea,
where he was associated with some of the
late Rupert Clarke’s ventures. Captain
Westland sent samples of the oil from Ceylon
—where he is a. recognised botanical and
forestry expert —to the Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, State Departments
of Agriculture and a number of graziers and
veterinary surgeons, and proposes to visit
stations where experiments are being con-
ducted.
The claims made for margosa oil are, m
brief, that it has. been used in Ceylon and
India for centuries as a deterrent against
blowfly attack on domestic aninjals: that
it has no injurious effect on skin tissues,
nor will it .damage wool or hair; and that it
is a recognised remedy for eye trouble,
girth and saddle galls and intestinal worms.
The tests being made in Australia are aimed
at discovering the most effective carrier for
the oil for internal and external use. The oil
is harmless to children and domestic and
other animals. One objection is the smell,
which is terrific; but. graziers would stand
the smell if they could only get rid of the
fly. Another drawback is that the tree is not
plentiful, and has never been cultivated on a
commercial basis ; but this can be overcome.
The most positive local testimony to, the
value of margosa oil comes from a Kooringa
(S.A.) man, who * writes : “I commenced to
use the oil last November when the flies
were very bad. It killed the maggots but the
sheep were struck again within a week.
A noticeable point Was the Soothing effect
of the oil. From the beginning of this
year I have used the oil on sheep struck, and’
I can say that none of these have been
struck again. Another noticeable point is
that in a room where the oil is placed, the
flies will immediately disappear. My opinion
is that margosa oil has valuable properties
and will justify further experiments.”
WHY TAR BRANDS ARE USED.
“Azac” : Several contributors to this Page
have deplored the fact that tar brands
should still be used. There is no denying
the fact that they cause the manufacturers
some trouble, but so far industrial chemists
have been unable to offer a suitable substi-
tute. Such a fluid has to answer two pur-
poses ; it has to remain legible from one
shearing-time till the next, and it must be
capable of being completely removed in the
scouring process.
Branding materials offered as substitutes
have been exhaustively tested for both these
qualities by the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture. Red, blue and black colors
have all been tried. Where the brands have
remained legible they defy the-scouring pro-
cess, while most of them have apparently
been compounded with the idea qf meeting
the manufacturer’s demands. They are
easily scoured out of the wool, but they are
useless as brands, because they fade out long
before shearing-time comes around.
Branding oils that have apparently given
every satisfaction in other countries have
been found useless in this country. Two
years ago the British Woollen Research
Association sent out for test two samples
which they considered would overcome our
difficulties. These were officially tested. In
the first year they faded badly, and although
in the second year’s trial they remained
somewhat more legible, in neither instance
was it possible to scour out the brand.
These trials should prove to “Kripple
and others how difficult it is—if not impos-
sible—to get a fluid that will meet the needs
of grazier and manufacturer.
SWEDES FOR SHEEP.
“Woldsman” : Now that the small sheep-
breeder is becoming the rule rather than the
exception in the more settled districts of
Australia, he might do worse than turn
attention to the growing of special crops
to supplement the natural pasture. A cer-
tain amount of special grasses, clover, etc.,
have been sown for this purpose, but it is
rare to find anyone following the universal
British custom of adding root crops to the
jumbuck’s menu. One N.S.W. sheepman, at
least, has tried the experiment, and has
found it successful, especially in regard to
the topping up of lambs. His crop is the
ordinary swede. This, he finds, increases
the milk flow, and thus gives the lamb a
notable lift along.
The method followed is to sow some three
or four acres of swedes broadcast —about
41b. of seed and lcwt. of super, to the acre
—and when the roots are ready, to turn the
sheep into them for a quarter of an hour or
so every day. If the crop is of extra qual-
ity the best roots are first culled and
marketed, good prices usually resulting.
DOES FAT-LAMB PRODUCTION PAY?
“T.X.0.”: Our officials attribute the
better demand for Maoriland frozen lamb,
as, compared with the Australian article (B.
20/4/’3l), to specialisation in the Dominion
across the Tasman and intensive advertising,
as against lack of organisation in the Com-
monwealth. They overlook several important
facts. To begin with, conditions in M.L.
favor the breeding of crossbred lambs,
whereas over here merino wool has long
been the staple industry of the sheep-farmer.
Climatic conditions, small areas, cultivation
and top-dressing of pastures all play an im-
portant part in the development of the ideal
export lamb in the land of ’quakes. With
our large areas and uncertain seasons, we
can never hope to equal them in respect to
the quality of the bulk of our exports,
although individual consignments may often
be on a par. For the same reasons they
will continue to beat us in respect to num-
bers exported.
Nevertheless, the quality of our shipments
has on the whole improved immensely during
the past 12 or 1.8 months. We now study
overseas market requirements to an extent
never contemplated in past years. Result, a
keener inquiry for Australian lambs as
each month passes.
But here is the rub. About this time last
year the average price of Maoriland prime
lamb of ideal freezers weight— i.e., 361 b. or
slightly under —was round about- Is. per
pound. It is approximately 7d. per pound
to-day. Similar lamb from Australia has
declined from lOd. to sd. per pound in the
same period. There is little in the game for
either Dominion or Commonwealth breeders
whilst present prices obtain.
BILL STUMP JUMP'S ACCOUNT.
“Ragusa” : The cockies in our section of
the Westralian wheat belt were annoyed
when they were bombarded with letters from
a machinery concern complaining that a
“grab-all” bank had got- down on “the whole
of your harvest returns,” and threatening
“to lodge a caveat, and to refuse absolutely
to withdraw same, until our claim for over-
due hire of a cultivator” (or some such
implement) “has been adequately provided
for.” Chagrin turned to merriment when
copies of the subjoined missive were scat-
tered about the countryside :
Mr. B. Blueciane, Farmer, Donkey Rocks.
Dear Sir,- —Has it ever occurred to you the import-
ance of the services, etc., rendered by our agent, Mr.
Stumpjump, in your district, during the time he
has operated his business ?
Mr. Stumpjump has at all times endeavored to give
the very best to the farmers in response to their
requests, and we think he has carried out yeoman
service in the district. Now ypu will realise the
necessity of an agent in the district to work your
farm from both an efficient, reliable and economical
point of view. He is the contact between yourself
and the merchant, and is, the man ever ready to
put you on the right track when you are out to
buy or sell your goods.
We have just examined Mr. Stumpjump’s ledger,
and find that he is still owed the sum of £1 17s. 3d.
by your good self for parts supplied during the past
year; it appears to us as though you do not fully
appreciate this agent’s endeavors of assistance in the
past.
We feel sure when you review the position m
the way that we have brought it under your notice,
you will say to yourself: “Now I must pay Bill
Stumpjump.” , Let the thought be substantiated
immediately by action! Write out your cheque
now ! Forward it direct ’to him or to this office .
Such assistance will indeed be appreciated, and we
know that we can depend upon you to see that
our desires in this connection are carried out.
Thanking you in anticipation.
Ono reply (it is more or less reliably re-
ported ) ran: —
Yours of recent date received, and contents noted.
1 regret that I am unable to settle your trifling
account —if you collected all the eorn-coaxers in this
neighborhood and suspended them, head down, from
a salmon gum, you wouldn’t shake £1 17s. 3d.
out of their pockets. But I am bringing Bill Stump-
jump’s eminent services under the notice of that
grab-all bank.
Thanking you without anticipation.
VALUE OF GRADING.
Tasmanian barley-growers have done well
for themselves this season, over a thousand
tons having been shipped to England already,
a considerable advance on last year’s per-
formance. The European 1 barley market has
only recently been invaded by the Tas-
manians, and Continental buyers, who took
considerable quantities last year, have now
come again. The building up of the trade
began with the formation of a growers’ asso-
ciation, which early instituted a system of
seed selection and grain grading. This has
brought the product into high repute abroad,
and every care is being taken by the associa-
tion not only to maintain but to further
raise the quality. Success in this line is
indicated by the fact that, whereas of the
20,000 bags received during the 1929-39
season about 45 per cent, was graded A 1
or A 2, 90 per cent, of the first 16.000 bags
this year were placed in the malting-barley
grades. The value of strict grading for export
lias never been more clearly demonstrated.
LARGE WHITES FOR PORK.
“lan J.”: I don’t agree with “Sendee”
(B. 29/4/’3l) that Large Whites are not
suitable as pork pigs. The qualities that
make them the best bacon pigs for the Eng-
lish market make them also the best pork
pigs. And the pork market no doubt otters
the best chance for Australia. .
It is true that some Large White pigs at
the last Melbourne Show were of the wrong
type; but “Bendee” will also find Tam-
worth breeders who raise long-snouted ani-
mals with shoulders outweighing their hams.
These are the men whom sensible buyers
avoid. .' ...
If it be true that the Large White will
not thrive in the hotter parts of Australia,
then certainly go in for the second-best—
probably the Tammy-Berk, cross. But breed-
ers will be well advised to give the Large
White a fair trial first. I have seen white
pigs thrive as far north as the Darling
Downs of Queensland, so that dll white pigs
do not scald. Probably by continued selec-
tion the heliophobe strain might be elimi-
nated. It would be worth while to try it.
BANANA DISEASES.
“Jethro Tull”: Leaf-spot (B. 29/4/’3l)
seldom shows in young banana plantations,
only in older plants; and never was the
advantage of rotation understood or prac-
tised so well as it is to-day. Even should
the disease appear in young bananas satisfac-
tory control measures can be adopted lhe
practice of stripping or trashing and the
removal of rubbish has the required effect. It
must be remembered that it is a fungus
disease, and the stripping of the loose
material from stems and removal of rub-
bish from the soil admit light and air —the
former the cheapest and one of the most
effective fungicides known. When bad
attacks of these diseases occur, the only
thing to do is to keep the soil free from
susceptible .plants for a number of years,
thereby starving out the fungus.
It would be better practice to .plant on
old ground some green manuring, crop like
peas or beans than have it lying idle. But
often plantations are such inaccessible places
that it is far cheaper and easier to leave it
to the lantana that requires no attention.
The renovating effect of lantana is easily
(Continued on page 26 ,)


the
easily
have
((
rem
is
s s-f
\Vt
used for banishing chest and
throat ailments , ”
Writes Mr. RAYMOND ELLIS, the
eminent English Operatic Baritone.
OF IMPORTANCE TO PARENTS
is the fact that HEENZO does
NOT contain any poisons or
digestive-upsetting drugs—that s
why HEENZO is the best of
all family remedies for
COUGHS, COLDS
CROUP, BRONCHITIS,
INFLUENZA
HEENZO
Every leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells HEENZO.
THE
Sunder cut stump jump Cultivating Plough
m
s
Bn
U
m
m
m
m
®9
m
■
H
m
m
m
m
mm
B©a
HI
By S i
m
iii
SH
11
ass
Hi
p
;
■'V
m
mm
I
I
hi
H i
n
H
m
i 8 •
1 P
Ml
HR
ni
".J
M
Si
&
■
m
as
■
■I
H
as
Unexcelled for work in
Yankee grubbed country
and amongst Mallee stumps.
10-Disc Size cuts 5 feet
14-Disc Size cuts 7 feet
Deals effectively with Paddymelon,
Stinkwort and other heavy weed
growths.
Supplied with Team Levers, or with
Forward Levers for Tractor use.
The Sundercut has a greater sale in
Australia than has any other disc
implement.
It works successfully in any type of
country, amongst stumps and stones,
in hard-set fallow, in virgin Mallee
soils, and in fallow rank with weeds.
The alternate 20-inch and 18-inch
discs are set with undercut, a factor
that greatly reduces draught. Also,
the varying throw of the different-
sized discs leaves the surface of the
soil in that granular state wherein most
benefit is derived from rainfall and
atmospheric conditions.
The discs cut a level bottom.
The Differential Cog Jump allows a
high jump without increase of draught.
FARMERS! .Write for Catalogue of all Sunshine Manufactures and List of Reduced Prices.
H. V. McKay Massey Harris Pty., Ltd
Sunshine Harvester Works,
Sunshine.
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street
West, Sydney. 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Murray and King Streets, Perth. .
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS (QLD.), LTD.,
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


few.
Ik
31
El
T
4 widths
no matter what your size
This shoe will fit your foot with
“made-to-measure” comfort, . . .there
are narrow, medium, wide and extra-
wide fittings in all full and half sizes.
And, because it fits without straining
anywhere, it naturally wears longer
.. . .preserves its shape better. The
sole is of the toughest leather. . . .the
upper arched to follow the instep
curve.
ORDER BY POST.
Specify width as well as length, and
order, also, the correct Abbey Pre-
servative Polish (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL23I
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
/
H
SCHUTE,
BELL &C tid.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridje Sired. Sidney.
BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 50/-
MERCHANTS AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
EOTHEN”
1
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
ndiuive Tariff, £4-44)
■“» Central 518
PAYING GUESTS Mr., parker
HAIR
C> * EED
here's
ƒ
Grey IJair is always taken to be a sign
ol age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
OfrCUlvtXS CMEXICAN)
VkMxut SioLVrt
♦-REMOVES THE CRCT
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct U/6), 6d. being postage.
fP
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population.
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which isj
approximately
68%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
Tern can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marleet, from :
Che Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
Plum Razor Guard
g
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD fits any ordinary blade razor, f, f, 1 inch.
With this Guard you can shave with, perfect safety, with the correct diagonal
shaving stroke ensuring a comfortable shave. Spring clip on the guard allows
instant adjustment. 2/9 each, post free.
2T/?e
PLUM
RAZOR
Strongly-made, grained leather
hinged case provided free with
' each razor.
POST FREE PRICES:
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 ea.
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle .... 15/6 ea.
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ea.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in oak case—Black
85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
"PLUM RAZORS” are supplied in two
widths—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
understood. It is a surface-rooter, a ram-
bling fast-growler that soon covers the sur-
face of the soil. The leaves are continually
falling, and very soon an appreciable amount
of humus is added to the soil, which in addi-
tion to decaying roots, etc., makes an ideal
dressing for such worn-out soils. The sub-
stances toxic to bananas are removed and
the soil becomes fit for another cropping.
While on the subject of bananas I would
like to advise Northern growers to keep a
lookout for heart-rot. Only a few cases
have been encountered, and but once has it
caused serious loss; yet unless kept under
control it could prove worse than bunchy-
top. It is infectious, and is carried around
by that old familiar the banana-aphid. Pre-
sent evidence show's it to be another of the
“mosaic” diseases. It affects the youngest
leaves first, causing whitish or pale yellow
streaks, which may extend from the margin
to the mid-rib, varying from narrow stripes
to bands half an inch or so in width. These
may be broken, giving the leaf a mottled
appearance. This mottling continues
throughout the year. It is only with the
coming of the cooler weather that heart-rot
stage sets in. The heart leaves commence
to rot, the infection spreading down the
pseudo-stem and into the corm, eventually
killing the plant outright. Keep a watch
for the first signs of the disease and destroy
all plants showing the first signs of infec-
tion, using the methods that are proving so
effective against bunchy-top.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What are the prospects of tlic peanut
industry in Australia? (2) Where can a
peanut harvester he bought, price, and how
does it work? —3376.
(1) Well, the Q’land Peanut Pool Board
has taken steps to restrict production. (2)
The Eureka peanut digger can be obtained
from Lovelock and Co., 210 Roma-street,
Brisbane, who will supply full information.
(1) What are the prospects of bee-farming
in N. S. Wales? (2) Is rearing of queen
bees forjale profitable? (3) Must all honey
be sold through the Honey Board, including
comb honey? (4) If I have a few hives is
it necessary to register? (5) Where can I
get an, Italian queen bee? —33s4.
(1) Fair. The present depression in the
marketing field is considered to be temporary.
(2) Yes, for a competent apiarist who can
specialise. (3) Refer to * Secretary. Honey
Marketing Board, Bridge and Bolwarra
roads, Pyrmont. (4) All bees must be regis-
tered. An application form for registration
is obtainable from the Agriculture Depart-
ment. (5) Senior Instructor, Government
Apiary, Wauchope.
How to grow loganberries, pruning and
position ? —3524.
Cut out the old canes after the fruiting
season and train the young growths into
position, tying them firmly. In June or
July dig in plenty of rotted manure about
the plants with a dusting of blood-and-bone
fertiliser. A northerly position on a fence
or shed is the ideal position, but they can
be trained on stakes with wires in positions
protected from strong wands.
From what source is m ushroom spa ion
formed? —2916.
It consists of the mycelium or strands
of the fungus mixed with specially rich
manure and pressed into brick form. The
bricks are submitted to a period of incuba-
tion, during which the fungus permeates the
substance of the brick more or less pro-
fusely. The bricks are then dried and are
ready for sale. A superior kind of spawn
known as “pure culture spawn” is also made.
This is prepared under laboratory conditions,
and is .sold in sterile containers; it is
usually in a fresh and growing condition.
Both brick and pure culture spawn lose their
viability if kept for any length of time, and
it is no rare experience to find that spawn
purchased in Sydney is dead.
(1) Do Rouen ducks mature for table
use as early as Muscovies? (2) Are they
as heavy or heavier than Muscovies and as
good in flavor? (3) Are they sitters? (4)
Arc sittings available from breeders? —3341.
(1) They are slightly slower. (2) The
standard weight for Rouen ducks is 91b.;
drakes, 101 b. Muscovy drakes weigh from
121 b. to 141 b.; ducks, 61b. to 71b. (3) They
are fair layers, and will hatch their own
young. (4) Don’t know 7 of any Australian
breeders.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mudgee”: I have tried many methods of
killing timber, and have found ordinary
frill ringing and yearly winter suckering
thts, best. Poisoning may sometimes be effec-
tive. My experience is that it is always
expensive and often fails. Real ringbarking
—that is, making a double cut and taking out
a wide piece of the bark —is slower than frill
ringing, is only more effective on big trees,
and on my N.S.W. place resulted in nearly
half the trees growing over in one parti-
cular season. It does not seem to matter
at what period of the year the ringbarking
is done, but the suckering has to be done
in the winter months.
“Odd Job”: When troubled with some
rusty pipe joints or stubborn nuts, try
kerosene. It’s a great rust-destroying agent,
plus a few hammer taps.
“Wrash”: Nailed to the wooden frame
under the grindstone, fit a quarter-section of
an old disused motor outer-tyre, and fill it
with water. The stone will then turn in a
bath, and the trouble of repeatedly wetting
it from a dipper or bucket will be eliminated.
“Gordo Blanco”: Sultana-growers must
be alert to the danger of black spot of the
vine for next season. In 1930 there were
great losses in some Yic. districts. Swabbing
with sulphuric acid is necessary in all badly-
affected vines. Wet Bordeaux mixture is
the only spray. A spraying with double-
strength Bordeaux immediately after bud
burst is very effective.
“Kingaroy”: Bad fences,make bad neigh-
bors. Ram your posts well, particularly
the bottom 6in. ; strain your wires tight
and keep them strained. In a new fence
strain the top wire first, as it has the greatest
purchase on the strainer posts and will take
up any give in the stays. If you strain from
the bottom up the top strain will slacken
the bottom wires. If using high-tension j
steel wire (121 gauge) work the wire to j
side of holes in" strainer posts before insert- ‘
ing the plug. Small-gauge wire has a ten-
dency to bury into the grain if at top or
bottom of hole, and the plug will not grip it.
“J.W.W.”: My five-year-old draught mare
got very lame in the hind fetlock. Ordinary
treatment failing, I tried massage, after
fomenting the joint and drying, it well. I
rubbed, pressed and kneaded it for half an
hour or more, when there was a warm glow
in the fetlock. A little turps finished the first
treatment; this was repeated twice daily for
three days, kerosene with a little olive oil
being sometimes used instead of the turps.
About the fourth day there was a marked
improvement, and treatment was reduced to
once a day. Meanwhile the other hind fet- I
lock got bad; taken in hand at once it was
cured in four days. After ten days the mare
was put to work. The vet. thought it was
rheumatism or rheumatic gout; the mare
had been running on lucerne when attacked.
She is now strong in all joints without any
sign of a limp.
“Grunter”: Why does a horse hang back
with his mouth open when led by the bridle
reins? Because the pull being forward on ,
the bit rings, the snaffle is pressing down on j
his tongue. Remedy: Buckle the reins
to his throat-lash if it is a stout one —
round his neck if it isn’t —and run the reins
forward through the bit rings. This will I
bring the bit into action if he happens to
rush ahead from fright, and won’t interfere
with his tongue while you are leading. This
method is also useful in breaking-in, in which
case you use a double plough rein, the
doubled end round the neck and the two
loose ends through the bit rings. You
can thus mouth him, teach him to lead
or tie him up with the same rope, and have
a better control of him for all these jobs.
“Paul C.”: When a dairyman is debited
with inferior cream, the separator is usually
at fault. The frame may not be securely
fastened to its bed, or the machine may not
be exactly level; either fault would cause
the bowl to spin unevenly, and so not only
impair the quality of the cream but allow a
percentage to escape in the skim milk. To
find out if the bowl is spinning evenly, put
it in its position without the milk and ci'eam
spouts: then turn the handle, very slowly
at first but increasing the pace till you have
the bowl spinning at its correct speed. If
there is the least wobble or vibration in it,
there is something wrong. If the frame is
securely fastened down, put a spirit-level on
the machine. If it is all right, then
some part on which the bowl depends for
its revolution must be worn or loose, or the
bowl itself may not be correctly balanced.
Until the fault is remedied you cannot have
satisfactory work done.
“Notwen”: Put a tin of mutton dripping
occasionally in the poultry yard during the
moulting season. My birds enjoy it; and
have been laying better since I started the
change in diet.
“Drake”: With mill offal cheap, and all
grains and by-products down, try running
ducks as a side-line. The ration can consist
of 50 per cent, chaffed greenstuff, and any
meal made from unsaleable grain furnishes
a good mash. If you are near a slaughter-
yard all the better ; soup composed of offal,
etc., is the best mixer for the mash. Meat
is essential, but what the Meat Board sells
is cheap. And ducks can get along on low
ground that is generally useless, and don’t
want high fences or fancy sheds. Ducklings
whilst in the downy stage need dry quar-
ters ; after feathering they are not fussy
where they live or sleep. The market is
generally very fair; it is best in cities where
there are colonies of Chinese, who are great
duck-eaters.
“Beady”: An easy method of making a
cable for farm use. Having selected the
wires, lay them flat and straight on the
ground. At one end tie them to a cart-
wheel ; jack up the wheel until it clears the
ground; tie the other ends of wires along
any ordinary log; then turn the wheel.
When wires are tightly twisted from end to
end cut them from wheel and log, and the
cable is made.
“Kilkivan”: What should a man do with
a self-sown wheat crop ? Hundreds of
Riverina and Vic. Mallee farmers have been
asking this. I have known self-sown crops
to be stripped for fair yields. Some men
advocate running the combine through with
some tynes off to thin out and cultivate.
The common practice of running sheep on
these crops to steady them is out of the
question; very few cockies have cash to buy,
credit is not available, and sheep are scarce.
It looks as if this is going to be a record
wheat year, especially if these self-sown
crops can be turned to advantage.
After some hesitation, it has been decided
to hold the annual N.S.W. ram sales in
Sydney as usual—on July 6. The studs
wall be sold right off the hammer, upset
prices being cut out. These are not times
when a small flockmaster can be loftily in-
formed by an agent that 25 guineas is the
minimum on anything to be offered by him.
“Tayside”: The Aberdeen-Angus breed of
cattle now beginning to find general favor
in Australia originated in the two Scottish
counties of Aberdeen and Forfar, the latter
more generally known as Angus. It resulted
from crossbreeding among various strains of
local cattle, both horned and polled, charac-
ter and type being gradually evolved and
strengthened by in-and-in breeding to develop
the desired characteristics. As everyone
knows it is now a fixed polled tvpe, and
black in color. A typical beast is low set,
straight and clean on top and underline, com-
pact and thick through, smooth and of
medium size, with a fine quality of hide and
hair. The special attribute of the breed
is its capacity to lay on flesh quickly and
uniformly, one which makes it invaluable
for crossing with other beef breeds, to which
these qualities are transmitted. It was
the Aberdeen-Angus which transformed the
quality of the beef herds of western U.S.A.
First introduced to Kansas bv a Scotsman
named Grant in 1873, the soon
attracted attention, and in a few vears more
and more bulls were being imported to cross
with Texas and other local cattle. In 1883
an American Angus Breeders’ Association
w r as formed; a year or so ago there were
500,000 beasts accepted for registration by it.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers: • - • -■ «-
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejectiou is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices arc not admissible.
Wants.
Wanted for N.Q. station governess to teach two
children, five and eight, corresp. school system and
music; light duties.—36l6.
Station manager (Q.), married, large exp. with
stock, seeks any position of trust •in country, June
or after. Would consider lease of mixed farm.
Refs.—3672.
Houseman-cook (25) wants job Q’land station, New
Guinea or the Islands. Refs.—3677.
Englishman (25), farming, selling, clerical and
mechanical exp., wants job of any sort. Refs. —
3556.
Lady (Vie.), good needlewoman, seeks position
housekeeper, cook, on station or elsewhere in country,
preferably place where schoolgirl could be taken—
-3583.
Returned soldier (35), life exp. on land, wants
job as station manager or pastoral inspector for big
dealer. Refs.—3s42.
Copy of newspaper in which is an advertisement
asking for the heirs of John Hay (Earl of Lennox).
—3566.
By salesman (W.A.), selling lines suitable for
hawking.—3s6l.
Married man, exp. sheep and cattle, can milk and
kill, wife good cook, wants job on station, Q’land
or N.S.W. No children. . Refs.—349B.
Teacher (31), Vic., 12 years exp. primary and
secondary, sports, seeks position anywhere. Refs.—
3522.
Man (34), hospital patient (Sydney)', will do light
work in return for home for a week or two after
discharge.—3slB.
Photographer, Q’land, exp. in out-door and film
work, eight years own business, wants employment.
—3525.
Young man (24), N.S.W., strong, handy with tools,
wants job in country.—3sB2.
Buteher’s-shop man, small-goods man and salter, ex-
Digger (S.A.), wants job of any sort, anywhere.—
3587.
Copies of English and American dramatic criti-
cisms of John Drinkwater’s play “The Bird in Hand.”
—3581.
To buy Frazer’s “Golden 80ugh.”—3591.
To buy reproduction of “Mona Lisa” in colors. —
3580.
By wardsman, 20 years’ dispensing exp., position
in hospital; N. Q’land preferred.—3633.
To buy large, clean plates of tortoise-shell for
comb-making.—3s99.
Young man, gold prospecting, N.S.W., would like
gifts of magazines and books for - winter reading.
(To C. R. J. Lavery, Post Office, Essington, ! N.S.W.)
To buy officer’s military coat. —3537.
To buy photos, taken at the Eidsvold (Q.) cattle
sale held on May 2.—3574.
To buy back numbers of “Art in Australia” and
“Australia Beautiful.”—3s76.
Will exchange quantity modern novels for “Aus-
tralian Encyclopedia.”—36oo.
Copy of “Lone Hand” containing story about a
swagmen who entered a lonely house to rob and
stayed to nurse a sick woman.—3s36.
Information Sought.
Do Vic. gold prospectors and gold-mining
cos. have to pay income tax on gold won? —
3355.
Individuals are subject to State income
tax and unemployment-relief tax, but exempt
trorn Federal income A co. is liable
for State income tax oh any dividends dis-
tributed and on any debenture interest paid
but is not subject to unemployment-relief
tax. It is exempt from Federal income tax
on profits derived from gold-mining.
(1) What make of engine has teen in-
stalled in the car in which Norman Smith
intends to attempt to break the world’s
record, and what power is it? (2) Where
was the car built, and by whom? (3) Cost?
(4) Who found the money? —3s93.
(1) A Napier aero motor. The makers of
the car say they believe it is the same type
?? ,^ as installed in Campbell’s “Bluebird
which was credited with developing
1450 h.p., other details being kept secret.
(“) I** Sydney, by Harkness and Hillier.
(3) About £15,000. (4) By a syndicate
consisting of N. Smith, J. H. Mostyn, D.
Harkness and the late E. James.
What is the effect of placing two fixed
condensers in series, and in parallel? I have
f °/ 0.002 MF fixed- condensers on
liana but require lower capacities. —-3502.
Two 0.002 MF condensers placed in series
will give a total capacity of 0.001 MF and
when placed in parallel. 0.004 MF. The
series arrangement, whilst reducing capacity,
enables them to withstand twice the voltage
that a single condenser could withstand.
I have the circuit of a) receiver cmnloying
a screen-grid valve as a detector coupled to
the first audio stage through a fixed resister.
I o mcrease the amplification of the stage
would it be possible to use a 3| :1 audio
transformer instead of this resister? —3506.
If this were done, the amplification would
be very low. To take advantage of the
high amplification-factor of the screen-grid
valve, it must be coupled to a high value
resistance. The impedence of an audio-
transformer is comparatively low at audio
frequencies, and the slight gain obtained by
the turns ratio of the transformer would
be more than lost by unsuitable coupling.
(1) How and when should acacia seed be
sown? (2) Type of soil requiredl (3) Is
pruning necessary? (4) Most suitable varie-
ties, and height to which they grow? —3slo.
Sow September to December in deep,
well-drained boxes or in open ground. Soak
seed in hot water for an hour; allow to cool
off. before planting. (2) Loamy soil in
’Vluch there is a little sand. Don’t add
organic manures. (3) Not recommended in
the case of established trees, but a judicious
cutting of short limbs will help to shape
young plants. (4) Acacia , ! spectabilis,
golden-yellow flowers, 10ft.; A. podalyrice-
folia (early flowering), yellow blooms, up to
15ft.; A. bailey ana, yellow blooms, 15ft.; A.
dealbata (late flowering), yellow blooms,
20ft.; A. pycnantha, bright golden blooms,
20ft.; A. molUssima, yellow blooms, 30ft.
(1) Is there any provision in N.B.W. law
regarding the width of footpaths in con-
junction with roadways of certain widths ?
(2) On a road on which footpaths and gutters
have not been formed can a council prose-
cute me for parking or running my car
alongside fences where . footpaths would
normally bet (3) If the council refuses to
allow cars to run along such fences, and in
consequence a car becomes bogged, has the
owner a claim for expenses incurred in get-
ting it out? —3125.
(1) The council fixes the width when it
aligns the street. Until then it is a question
of evidence. You could call at the council’s
office and see the plan, if any. (2) Yes.
(3) No;
Anything known of the value of prickly-
pear as a relief or cure for diabetes. Can
it be taken in conjunction with insulin injec-
tions ?— 3138.
Treatment is still a matter of experiment.
Until definite results are obtained the best
treatment for diabetes remains a scientific
arrangement of diet and the taking of insulin
when necessary.
Cause and cure of talking in one's sleep?
3296.
Psychologists hold, varying views as to the
cause. No cure is known other than the-
general experience that a calm and restful
evening is the best preparation for sound
sleep.
What causes a normal eye to become short-
sighted, and can it be cured? —3oB6.
It is due to an abnormal elongation of the
eyeball owing to which parallel rays are
focussed in front of the retina. The defect
is remedied by concave glasses, which cause
the rays to diverge, thus preventing them
from coming to a focus too soon.
(1) If a ’plane, capable of flying 100
m.p.h. in a calm, flew with nose pointed due
south in a wind of 100 m.p.h. from the west,
what leeway would be made in one hour?
(2) What distance would be covered in an
hour flying in the teeth of the same gale?
(3) Flying down wind, same gale, what dis-
tance in land miles would be covered in
an hour? —3432.
(1) 100 miles. (2) Nil. (3 ) 200 miles.
I am an architectural student, I want
to sit for the marine engineers’ exam,, also
for professional, mechanical and engineering
exams. I have had no practical engineer-
ing experience. Would I be allowed to sit?
—3396.
You could not sit for the marine engineers’
exam, without having been apprenticed in
the trade. As to other exams., both Aus-
tralian and British institutes require many
years’ practical experience before a candi-
date is allowed to sit.
Was the Discovery, used by Scott, re-
fitted for use by Mawson? What has been
the ship’s history? —34lo.
Yes. She was built about 1900 for the
expedition commanded by Captain Scott,
and, after the return of that expedition, was
sold to the Hudson Bay Co. and used for
trading purposes. In 1922 she was bought
on behalf of the Falkland Islands Govern-
ment to serve as a research vessel to investi-
gate whaling matters. Between 1922 and
1925 she was rebuilt, reappearing in the
Antarctic as practically a new vessel. The
Mawson Expedition chartered her from the
Falkland Islands Government.
(1) What were names of the two medals
issued to returned soldiers by the Defence
Department, and the colors of their ribbons?
(2) Where t>a apply for same in Vic.? —
3317.
(1) The British war medal.; colors: centre
orange, watered, with stripes of white and
black on each side and with borders of l'oyal
blue; and the Victory medal: red centre,
green and violet on both sides, shaded to
form the colors of two rainbows and watered.
In addition to these a 1914-15 Star was
issued to those who served on the strength
of a unit in a theatre of war prior to Dec.
31, 1915. (2) Officer-in-charge, Base
Records, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne.
(1) What is the difference between rococo
and baroque? —3s3s.
The terms are applied to styles prevailing
in French architecture and furniture of
the early eighteenth century, in which in-
congruous combinations, bristling surfaces,
profuse ornament and broken curves are
characteristic features. Rococo is under-
stood as the form taken by baroque when
it aimed not at astounding the spectator
with the marvellous but amusing him with
the ingenious.
What are the rules as to using “Yours
faithfully,” “Yours truly,” “Sincerely yours,”
etc., in signing a letter?— 3s34.
Fowler in “Modern English Usage” sug-
gests “Your obedient servant” or “Yours
obediently” in correspondence to or from
officials; “Yours respectfully” from servant
to master; “Yours faithfully” to unknown
persons on business; “Yours truly” to slight
acquaintances; “Yours very truly,” cere-
monious but cordial; “Yours sincerely” in
invitations and friendly but not intimate
letters; “Yours eyer” or “Ever yours” or
“Yours” between intimates: “Yours affec-
tionately ’ between relations.
It is frequently stated that the Canadian
Government railways are much better man-
aged than those .in Australia. (1) What is
the form of management? (2) What per-
centage of profit on capital cost do they
show? (3) Were they more profitable under
private ownership? (4) Does Canada spend
as much on motor roads as Australia does?
(5) What is the position of Canadian tram-
ways?—3s79.
(1) They are administered on purely busi-
ness principles by a board of trustees. (2)
No profits. In the last four years of which
we have record the deficits were: 1924,
54,860,419 dollars; 1925, 41,444,764 dollars;
1926, 29,701,445 dollars; 1927, 37,637,722
dollars; a preliminary estimate gave the
1928 figure as about the same as 1926. (3)
Yes, but the C.P.R. and C.N.R. got into
financial deep water in war-time, leading to
their acquirement by the Government. (4)
No. In 1927, out of 424,014 miles of roads
only 1265 miles were concrete, and 678 bitu-
minous macadam. The remaining mileage
included 5625 miles macadam, 50,521 miles
gravel, and the rest just earth. (5) They
are all under private ownership. In 1927
net profits represented a shade over 6 p.c.
on capital invested.
Is it really true, as suggested by an Abo.
contributor {B. 20/5/’3l), that the M.L.
Postal Department, has reduced the pay of
cats as part of the retrenchment policy? —
3565.
The facts are that the cats in Auckland
P. 0., for which an allowance of lOd. a week
for cat’s-meat has hitherto been officially
made, now get only 9d. worth—sharing in
the 10 per cent, cut in all public-service
salaries.
(1) Is the Maoriland duty on imported
wheat and flour so framed as to be pro-
hibitive? (2) How does it operate? (3)
Are Maoriland wheat prices fixed so as to
take full advantage of the tariff? (4) Is
there any prospect of the duties being
reduced? —3s64.
(1) It is not prohibitive. Maoriland
bakers require a certain proportion of Aus-
tralian wheat in their flour to get the best
bread. Under the present sliding-scale tariff
730,000 bushels of Australian wheat were
imported in 1927, 750,000 bushels in 1928
and 160,000 bushels in 1929. (2) The duty
is Is. 3d. per bushel on wheat when the cur-
rent domestic price at the port of export is
ss. 6d, per bushel, rising by id. per bushel
for every £d. below that figure and falling
id. for every id. above that figure. Flour
duty is 70s. per ton with flour at £l3 10s.,
rising or falling in the same way as the
price fluctuates. The effect is to ensure that
the imported cost of wheat shall be at least
6s. 9d. per bushel and of flour £l7 per ton.
(3) No. Latest quotation we have seen,
was ss. 9d. per bushel. (4) Yes. The Gov-
ernment proposes as from February 1 next
to reduce the duties so that wheat can be
admitted at ss. sd. and flour at £l4 2s.
What is the rule as to the retention of
A.I.F. rank? —327B.
The conditions governing the grant of
rank in the A.M.F. to ex-officers of the A.I.F.
provide generally that the rank to which
they are appointed is the highest substantive
rank held by them in the A.I.F. prior to
the Armistice. In the majority of cases
former A.I.F. officers were appointed to the
reserve of officers of the A.M.F., others
went on the % active list. Many of the
latter have since been promoted to higher
rank. Ex-A.I.F. officers who were medically
unfit for active service were placed on the
retired list of the A.M.F. with permission to
retain their rank.
(1) What are the qualifications for boys to
be trained as midshipmen in the British
Navy? (2) Would an Australian have a
chance of being accepted? (3) What are the
prospects of promotion from the ranks in
the case of a boy with a good education?
(4) Does the R.A.N. offer better opportuni-
ties? (5) Where to obtain further infor-
mation?—3292.
(1) and (2) Arrangements have been
made with the Imperial authorities for a few
vacancies to be allotted annually for the
entry of Australian youths between the
ages of 13 and 14 years as ordinary cadets,
and 17i and 18J years as special cadets.
(3) Same as in any other calling. (4)
Recruiting for all branches has been tem-
porarily suspended. (5) Secretary, Naval
Board, Melbourne.
(1) What States of the U.S.A. are still
in default in respect of loans from British
and European sources, with respective
amounts? (2) Was the money lent by
Governments or by private investors? —3l64.
(1) Alabama, 13,000,000 dollars; Arkan-
sas, 8,700,000 dollars; Florida, 8,000,000
dollars; Georgia, 13,500,000 dollars; Loui-
siana, 6,000,000 dollars; Mississippi,
7,000,000 dollars; North Carolina, 13,000,000
dollars; South Carolina, 6,000,000 dollars.
(2) By private investors.
(1) When Crown lands are sold in N.S.W.
do the proceeds go to revenue or are they
appropriated for loan redemption? (2)
When repayments extending over a period of
years are made to the N.S*W. Government
by municipal councils for waterworks, etc.,
are the amounts spent as ordinary revenue,
used elsewhere as loan money, or used to
redeem the loan raised for the purpose? (3)
Has any amount ever been paid off the capi-
tal cost of the N.S.W. railways, either for
construction or rolling stock? 14) Are dis-
carded lines replaced by deviations still on
the books at full cost? (5) Is there any
sinking fund or annual depredation charge?
(6) Has the Commonwealth paid for any of
the properties transferred from the States,
such as customs houses, post offices, military
barracks, etc.? —2948.
(1) To revenue. (2) Payments are
credited partly to the loan vote from which
the advances were made, up to the extent
of such advances; amounts so credited arc
used for loan expenditure generally. Inter-
est covered by the repayment goes to re-
venue, except interest during construction
and forming part of capital cost —that is
credited to sinking 'funds and applied in
redemption of loans generally. (3) and
(4) Not within the memory of living man.
In some cases where lines or other structures
which have been abandoned, and in all cases
of rolling stock condemned or placed out of
traffic service, the capital account has been
written down by the original cost of the dis-
placed asset. (5) No. (6) It assumed
all liability in respect of them as from
July 1, 1929.
Brief Answers.
L.R.: From Anderson and Co., 399 George-
street, Sydney, 16s. per doz., 100 s. per 100:...
5.8. C.: Lang introduced his scheme for suspension
of interest and a new form of currency at the
Premiers’ Conference on February 10 lastr... K.M.:
Ulladulla means “better place,” Mirrabooka “the
Southern Cross” and Parrakool “same as one before.”
. ...V.P.: Dr. Joseph Arnold’s diary was purchased
by the Mitchell Library, Sydney, last February. It
could be inspected on application... .E.M.G.: A
Lord Howe Island ljd. stamp, marked 2d. by post-
master, has been sold for £7 10s J.T.: You
should resist the claim on the ground that the intro-
duction did not lead to the letting F.M.: if
prior to the assignment wages were due to the sons
and unpaid, they can claim for the amounts due
out of . the estate... .A.M.8.; Don’t know of any
whom w r e could recommend. .. .A.P.R.: (1) The
medical course must be taken to qualify. (2) It
is included with obstetrics in the final year of
the medical course at the Melbourne Uni
V.H.8.: Consult Sydney Municipal Library. G. G.
Greenwood is one of the best exponents on the
Baconian side, and Beeching' on the other... .K.F.G.:
The nursery rhyme “The Queen was in her- parlor,
eating bread and honey,’’ is an example of saturnian
metre... .W.E.: Write to the Under-Sec., Dept, of
Labor, Pretoria, and Provincial Sec., Pietermaritz-
burg, Natal... .F.S.: (1) We are inquiring through
“Wants” column. (2) See advertising columns
“S. M. Herald”. . . .J. 8.: From the Registrar-General,
H.M. General Register House, Edinburgh, Scotland,
ss. Id J.F.K.: Write to “Atlantic Monthly
Press,” Boston (U.S.A.). .. .L.D.P.; “By Rail and
Semaphore” and “The Shepherd Kings of Canter-
bury” w ere the titles of two series of yarns, by
C. A. Jeffries, published in The Bulletin. They
were not published in book form.... J.J.W.: Hoyle
says that when the hands are identical the pool
is divided... .N. 8.: (1) No. (2) He is not known.
(3) Nothing exceptional. .. .D.S.; To repudiate the
sale and recover the instalments paid, you would
have to prove misrepresentation, and that, from what
you say, would be difficult... .I.B.: The Act of last
year abolishing distress for rent will assist you
so far as protection of your goods is concerned, but
nothing in that Act affects the right of your land-
lord to recover the rent as a debt. The Moratorium
Act does not apply... .T.J.C.: The bank could not,
without leave of the Court, call up or demand pay-
ment of the principal sum secured by the mortgage,
but this does not relieve you of the payment of
interest, for which the bank could sue C. 8.8.:
You would have difficulty in proving a right of way
by immemorial usage, but your agreement with B
that in consideration of you putting the road in
repair you should have the right of way over it,
if in writing, should make your claim good. A
miner’s right would' not assist you... .W.W.L.: You
are bound by the agreement and cannot vary it
without the consent of the other party.. . .C. 5.8.:
The song “I Wonder Who’s Kissing Her Now” was
one of the musical numbers of the comic opera
“Balkan Princess,” by Frederick Lonsdale and Frank
Curzon. The music was by Paul Rubens E.B. •
Write general manager, Note-printing Branch, Com
monwealth Bank, Fitzroy (Vic.) ... .H.A.McL.: Calle-
mondah means “plenty of hills,” Warrumbungle “short
mountains,” Woorarra “mountainous place”. . . .W.S.:
Full particulars in “Post Office Guide”... .S.S.: J.P.
Chard’s “First Steps in the Study of Poetry”
(2s. 6d.), J. C. Anderson’s “Laws, of Verse (11s.),
S. G. Ford’s “Lessons in Verse-craft” (6s. 6d.) and
F. W. Felkin’s “The Craft of the Poet” (10s.),
Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .H.A.M.L.: Only by
advertising. .. .E.R.W.; The law prohibits us furnish-
ing particulars regarding sweeps conducted outside
N.S.W M.E.8.; See article in Farmers’ Bulle-
tin, No. 88, of N.S.W. Agriculture Department....
F.G.L.: From the General Register Office, Somerset
House, London, ss. Id A.A.: The pressure of
water on the caisson gate of the. No. 1 Suther-
land dock at Cockatoo Island Dockyard, Sydney, is
approximately 1100 tons, averaging 6.71 b. per sq. in.
. ...A.G.: Secretary, Federated Clerks’ Union, Room
84, State Shopping Block, Market-street, Sydney, will
tell you R.A.W. ; (1) Yes. (2) The materials
required are few ; the only expensive thing is leather,
of which a little goes a long way. (3) “Book-
binding,” by W. F. Matthews (1929) ... .E.M.C.:
He is an Anglican F.A.R.: Incompatibility of
temper is not ground for a divorce in N.S.W
A.J.G.: You appear to have a right of action, but
should place the facts before a solicitor and act on
his advice. .. .L.E.T.: The first edition of Scott’s
“Rob Roy” was published in 1818. Your edition
is of no particular value... .H.J.P.: Booyong means
“ironwood trees,” Boronga “a big waterhole,” Kim-
briki “water weed” and Minimine “clear country.”
. ...R.D.8.: The picture depicts Burke and Wills
at Cooper’s Creek and is by John Longstaff. ...T.N.:
Get in touch with A. F. Basset Hull, Hon. See.,
Royal Zoological Society of N.S.W., Bull’s Cham-
bers, Martin-place, Sydney. .. .C. 8.; T. B. Sailors
and Soldiers’ Assoc, of N.S.W., Angel-place, Sydney
.... J.W.W.: No figures available... .H.J.D.:
“Nought point one eight,” because, as a matter of
uniform practice, it saves the mention of ’teens,
hundreds, thousands, etc., when reciting a string
of numbers after the point. .. .W. 8.5.: (1) Rainbow
trout fry for waters deemed suitable are provided
free of cost! Apply to the Under-Secretary, State
Fisheries, Sydney. (2) Hodgson’s “How to Fish,”
and Halford’s “Dry Fly Fishing.” (3) Rod unsuit-
able ; reel could be used... .W.E.D.: 43J gallons... .
R.W.: Beche-de-mer is a sea-slug which occurs along
the Great Barrier Reef and Torres Strait, and is
used by the Chinese for conversion into soup.
Inspector of Fisheries, Pindimar, Port Stephens,
may be able to supply further information.
N.L.: The Service Department doesn’t under-
take to determine whether Blogg’s braces will wear
longer than Plonk’s or whether Schmidt makes a
better nail-file than Griggs... .A.J.D.: Write the
Registrar, Toe H (N.S.W.), 5 Hamilton-street, Syd-
ney ... .0.P.G.: English gunmakers have found Tas-
manian myrtle satisfactory for gun-stocks....
K. : In 1830 a carpenter named John Face
lived in Old South Head-road, Sydney. We have not
been able to connect him with Kissing Point....
J.H.8.: “Marketing Poultry Products,” by Earl W.
Benjamin”.... J.P.: Australia’s area is 2,974,581
sq. m.; population at June 30, 1930, was estimated
at 6,438,999. Soviet Russia has an area of 8,241,673
sq. m. and a population of 138,851,250... .G. 8.:
At the 1921 census: London 7,480,201, Liverpool
803,118, Manchester 730,551 F.C.O. (1) \Pros-
peets poor. You would have to canvass the State
education departments and leading business colleges.
(2) No R.A.J.C.: It has no value unless you
can find a collector interested in such items....
L. : The five-mark piece (New Guinea bird-of-
paradise design) is worth 10s. if in good condition.
The one-mark piece is worth 4s. Dealers would
pay less... . J.W.: Send rubbing of coin to C. J. V.
Weaver, hon. sec. Australian Numismatic Society,
11 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt... .G.N.1.: (1) and
(4) Can’t identify by your description. (2) If
silver maundy piece, 6d. (3) 3d. (5) 6d. (6)
6d Int. Reader: (1-3) Assuming the exchange
rate is 130, the Australian £ is worth 240 d. multi-
plied by 100, divided by .130 = IB4d. = 16s. 4d.
(4) N 0..,. (Many others ipailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £100 IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J.HARDIE
Synopsis: Margaret Kennedy, on her
way to ' Corella station, in North
Queensland, whither she has been in-
vited by Tom Donaldson, father of
her 1 school friend, has the wild and
woman-shy stockman Ken Craig de-
scribed to her in startling detail by
Harry the mailman. Suddenly the
horses take fright and bolt; Harry is
. thrown off, and Margaret is left alone
on' the coach. She is rescued from a
seemingly inevitable crash into the
creek-bed below by the decisive action
of Craig, who, riding out of the bush,
shoots the leading horses, and orders
Margaret, who is dressed like a boy,
to help him cut the others loose. She
tries, but the strain is too much, and'
she falls unconscious. Craig, who
had mistaken her for what she looked
like, and used language accordingly, is
more embarrassed than ever when he
discovers his mistake. They go on
together to the station, where Donald-
son i-i pleased to have her as company
for his daughter, Peggy. They are all
together at the homestead when Uncle
Alan arrives.
CHAPTER 111 ( Continued ).
MARGARET rose with a strong sense of
relief and slipped an arm round the
girl on the corner of the verandah.
An old, bearded man, under a wide felt hat,
was coaxing a. timid, suspicious-eyed, chest-
nut towards the house, sitting erect on the
snorting," sidling horse with an easy grace
that belied his years.
As he dismounted and walked stiffly to-
wards them, Peggy.opened out on him:
“Poor old chap! Why don’t you ride
him on to the verandah and save yourself
that long walk?”
“Hullo,. Mischief!. 'Axe.'you there? And
here I'.was wanting a quiet yarn with your
Dad! Good-day, Ton 1! How’s the leg?”
He swept off the; big hat and stepped On the
shady verandah.
“ ’Da}', Alair ! Did you come to see me
or my new daughter?”
The old.man, atill dazzled by the blinding
glare outside, turned to notice Margaret for
the first time. He took her hand with an
old-fashioned gesture and Margaret found
herself looking into a pair of wise, kind
eyes, almost hidden between bushy eye-
brows and whiskers.
“I heard about you, Miss Kennedy.
You’re a. welcome sight for tired eyes!”
“Listen to the old flatterer!” laughed
Peggy. “Be careful of him, Margaret ! He’ll
be proposing next!”
“You’re a lucky man, Tom.” The old
eyes gleamed mischievously towards Peggy.
“And what an improvement on the first
daughter!”
With a laugh he dodged a flying Cushion;
then as Mr. Heath rose to depart, he pulled
a chair towards Donaldson’s and stretched
his legs out in front of him with a long-
drawn sigh of relief. ;
Margaret felt happily at ease with the
old man. His personality emanated from
him in the genuine ring of his voice, in the
tolerance bred of wisdom that shone from
the keen old eyes.
Peggy had slipped away again. While
the men talked cattle Margaret sauntered to
the corner of the verandah and, leaning com-
fortably against a post, ran eager eyes over
the splendid chestnut standing nervously
outside.
She loved horses, a.nd marvelled at the
old man riding this spirited, active animal.
The clean-cut blaze and two white stockings
gave him a showy appearance. Quietly
the girl moved into the sunlight for a closer
inspection.
The head stockman broke off his con-
versation with an approving nod towards
the girl, and, rising stiffly to his feet, wan-
dered after her.
“Got your eye on my fancy hack
already?” he smiled at her as he unhitched
the reins and slipped an arm loosely through
them.
“He’s a beauty!” The girl’s voice was
low and deep with feeling. She advanced a
long, shapely hand towards the velvet nose.
The horse, snorting nervously, his eyes still
watchful, allowed the caressing hand to
slide up to the pointed ears.
“Have you done much riding?” the old
man queried.
“I used to ride a lot, but not for the
last year or two.”
The live old eyes smiled back at her:
"Come up to the yards in the morning.
We’ve got a fresh lot of horses in and
you’ll see some fun. Then we’ll see what
we can do for you.”
Her smile thanked him. Then he queried:
"What’s, this you’ve been doing to Ken?
I’ve, been hearing all sorts of yarns about
him, shooting up the coach horses arid
swearing at - the passengers. We won t get
much out of him about it.”
Laughingly she recounted the doings ot
the last feW days, and when he heard of
Ken’s confusion on finding she was not a
man the old fellow rocked with amusement.
“And his language? Pretty strong, was
it?”
She laughed back. “Terrible!”
He shook his head in mock sadness:
“Well! Well! Still, language has its
uses. It isn’t what a man says but the way
he says it that counts!”
She nodded approval and they walked
back together, talking—-“as'' if,” Peggy
observed, “they had known each other all
their lives.”
The hot afternoon sun beat down on
Corella and everything was drowsily still.
Peggy wandered through the doorway
between her room and Margaret’s, and sur-
veyed the figure resting under the mos-
quito net.. •
Margaret turned lazily and smiled a
welcome. “Come in, Pegs.”
i “Thought you might be asleep,” replied
the girl. “Chase me out if I talk too
much.”
Margaret listened to her chatter for a
while, answering an occasional question.
During a pause she turned suddenly towards
Peggyi
“Just exactly who is this Ken Craig?”
The blue eyes opened wo.nderingly; then
the fair girl chuckled quietly. “Ken? He’s
just a stockman! But Dad sent him in
charge of the bullocks last trip, and I’ve
an idea Dad has another job for him.”
“Has he been here long?”
“Quite a while. He came to Corella
when I was at school, so I didn’t really
know him in his bad old days.”
Margaret’s face held the shadow of a
frown. “I heard about that. Doesn’t he
get drunk nowadays?”
“No, I don’t think so. He hasn’t since
I came Rome. He seems to have got over
whatever —or whoever—was responsible.”
The dark head raised a little. “Why, was
therem woman?”
Peggy shrugged her plump shoulders. “I
don’t really know. You’re in the Never-
Never, now, Margaret.”
“What has that to do with it?”
“Well, you’re at liberty to think what
you like about a man’s past, but—you must
never, never question him about it.” The
•drowsiness departed fi’Otn Peggy’s voice.
“What Ken was, or what he did, before he
came here is only surmise. I think Uncle
Alan knows a bit—he brought Ken in from
the desert—but he wouldn’t tell. It seems
that after the big spree in Carinda Ken
rode out through here, right into the desert,
and the wild blacks found him there nearly
dead with thirst. He lived with them for
a while; then they sent word to Uncle
Alan about the white man. You see, Uncle
Alan is about the only white man who
knows their language—he used to have a
station of his own out here. Anyhow, he
brought Ken into his camp and he has
stayed here, ever since. The two think the
world of one . another and Ken has improved
wonderfully. He’s a marvellous horseman.
At first they all reckoned he was mad ; he
would try to ride anything—didn’t seem
to care whether he was killed or not. He’s
much quieter now, but it’s a treat to see
him handling a horse!” She paused for a
moment. “When I came home I didn’t
meet him for a long time—he seemed scared
of meeting any female at all. However,
he’s used to me now, and you’ve made a
good start,” she added with a mischievous
chuckle.
A faint flush rose to Margaret’s cheeks.
Annoyed with herself, she turned haif away.
“Any more mystery men up here?”
Peggy laughed! “Any more?” she echoed.
“Why, there isn’t a single man on the place
who hasn’t a past of some sort! No, I’m
wrong. There’s young Scotty Cameron.
He’s a cheery kid—with the reddest hair
and more freckles to the square inch than
anyone you ever saw. No mystery about
Scotty—he’ll tell you all his family history
in five minutes.”
“What brought, him out here, then?”
“Romance, my dear! With a capital R.
He came out from Scotland full of Wild-
and-Woolly-West ideas. How he got here
is a mystery. Someone sold him a broken-
down crock in Carinda, and Ken picked him
up wandering on foot round the Red Ridge,
half off his head with thirst. He’s another
of Ken’s worshippers!”
Margaret turned petulantly. “Can’t this
paragon of yours do any wrong?”
Peggy chuckled. “Poor old Ken! You
just can’t help liking him. He’s as straight
as a die, and the most unselfish man you
could imagine. You’ll hear lots of things
about him while you’re here. How do
you like Uncle Alan?”
The brown eyes flashed with enthusiasm.
“He’s a wonderful old man! Don’t tell me
he has a past!”
“Not an immediate past, at any rate! He
is one of the pioneers, of this country, and
knows it better than anyone. But the
better you get to know him, the more you’ll
find yourself wondering about him. He
reads everything, he has travelled all over
the world, and he can talk on any subject
under the sun. Not only Uncle Alan,
but some other very ordinary looking
men out here will surprise you. Take
the Carinda doctor—they say he was
a great English surgeon, but he made
a slip, and it affected him so much
that he cleared out. Look at him now!
—an absolute wreck; drinks a bottle of
brandy a day. When he’s wanted for an
operation they have to get hold of him
and sober him up for the job Incident-
ally, I discovered that Ken was on that
picnic all through the night he arrived with
you in Carinda—and after sobering him up
wanted to drive him out to Harry!”
Margaret started up. “And he had no
sleep the night before—he was going hard
all the time!”
But Peggy only gave her a lazy side-glance.
“Oh, that’s one of the symptoms. They’re
all mad out here!” She stifled a yawn,
stretching comfortably. Then: “Well, I had
better go and see about dinner. I threat-
ened Ken with sudden death if he didn’t
get here on time.”
Ken arrived just in time for dinner; so,
beyond the manager’s breezy greeting, con-
versation was tacitly dropped till later.
In hot countries where flies are a curse
it is generally found that the art of dinner-
table conversation languishes. Only those
who have really experienced the persistent,
nagging attack of the little Queensland
fly can appreciate his full iniquity. They
know how all one’s energies are occupied
in shooing the tenacious attacks in mass
formation, on food, eyes, nose and mouth
simultaneously, till the weak are reduced
to tears, the irritable moved to frenzy and
the strong to language, forceful, deep and
vivid. Fortunately for the inhabitants of
* these far-flung districts, the cool weather
banishes most of the pests for a season,
and affords respite and a new reserve of
patience.
So it was not a vivacious meal for the
four under the light of the hanging lamp.
Peggy, in a white frock, still flushed with
her labors but trying to look cool, kept up
a continual chatter, aimed chiefly at Ken.
He was seated between her and her
father, dressed in a well-worn grey suit
still bearing the evidence of a good tailor,
but his replies were mostly monosyllabic,
owing, for one thing, to the unaccustomed
restriction of collar and tie, but mainly
to the vision opposite him.
Margaret was dressed i'n a simple sleeve-
less frock of cornflower-blue crepe de Chine.
Her beautiful brown hair, parted at the
side, swept in a low wave over her fore-
head, accentuating her air of quiet reserve.
Ken felt he must be staring, and tried
to listen to the desultory remarks with
some show of intelligence. Margaret was
quiet, but her eyes laughed back at Peggy’s
chatter, and the man opposite, watching
her closely, was filled with a strange elation.
She seemed so calm and self-reliant. Was
this the girl of the coach and the ranges
with the haunted look in her eyes?
.When they rose from the table, Peggy
sternly ordered them all to the verandah.
“Margaret, if you sit between the men
the pipe-smoke will keep away the mos-
quitoes.”
Margaret calmly ignored her by com-
mencing to clear the table. Tom Donald-
son heaved his huge bulk erect and hobbled
out, taking Ken with him to discuss the
recent droving trip, and the two men
settled comfortably on the verandah,
pipes glowing in the darkness.
“Yes, we had a good trip. The bul-
locks were quiet all the way—never rushed
once. There wasn’t much grass for them
in the ranges, and we lost a bit of time
watering at some of the little rock holes,
but we were at the trucks on time and the
mob looked well. We lost only one bullock
—he went lame on the rocks, so we used
him as a killer.”
“Good! Thompson wrote last mail—
reckoned they were the best-conditioned
mob of the season.” The big man grunted
comfortably. “Dusty and Joe went down
on the trucks?”
“Yes; they’ll get a better run for their
money down the coast! Expect they’ll be
back in a week or two.”
They sat in silence for a while, smoking
peacefully, each busy with his thoughts.
The older man seemed to have something
on his mind, and didn’t quite know how to
approach his subject. At last he spoke,
diffidently:
“Alan’s not feeling so young as he
used to.”
“He’s all right. Good for a long time
yet!” The young man was quick in
defence of his old friend.
“Yes, I know; but I want to make things
easier for him, and we’ve had a talk over
it. He reckons some of the blacks are
getting a bit cheeky.”
“Mad Harry?”
“Um!”
“I’ll keep an eye on him!”
“Well, what I’m going to do is this!”
Things looked easier now and the big man
spoke more freely. He removed the cherry-
wood pipe from his mouth and plunged
into his subject.
“This place can be worked better by two
camps instead of one. It will be easier on
the horses, on the men and on the cattle.
So —we’ll divide the run. Alan Gordon
will have his main camp here, and he 11
work all the eastern side from the Lmton
boundarv, taking in Dingo Creek and the
Buckland, down to the Junction. Hell
have Happy Creek down to Split Lagoon—
you might say all the creeks on the eas
side of the Barker.
“Now you—the other camp will have all
the Barker River, and all the country to
the west of it, right to the desert. Gulya
Creek is the only one of any size that
comes in from the west, so that’ll giv e a
long straight beat from where the Barker
comes out of Windsor on the north to the
Ardwell boundary on the south. .V ~ if
on the arrangement with Smith of Ardwell,
and we’ll both have a man camped on the
river down there turning our own cattle
back. What do you think of it?”
“ “Good idea! Where will the new camp
work from?”
“Where do you reckon?” Donaldson was
puffing rather rapidly at his pipe, and his
eyes, invisible in the dark, were intent on
his companion, sprawled out in his chair,
smoking with thoughtful deliberation.
“Cattle Camp! There’s a permanent
waterhole, and a good set of yards, its
about half-way between the boundaries, and
only a couple of hours’ ride from here.
The big man smiled contentedly in the
dark.
“I’ve let a fencing contract for a new
bullock paddock—fifteen miles by ten
Runs south of Cattle Camp, takes in halt
of Split Lagoon, but it lies east of the
Barker, so that Happy Creek runs through
the middle of it. I’m fencing off the north-
west corner of it for a horse-paddock the
spare horses of that camp will run in the
bullock paddock. Alan’s horses will run m
the old paddock—we won’t have so many
horses knocked about by these brumbv
stallions of Larry Nolan’s then.”
“Who’s got the fencing contract?
“Old Muller. I want you to go down
and have a look at his work. I hear hes
got over five miles up. I’m tied down for
a while with this leg. Have a good look
at his posts. Tell him to leave off the
cattle fence in the meantime and go on
with the. horse paddock. It’s more im-
portant.”
Ken nodded grave approval.
“And I want you to pick a spot above
the waterhole for the camp. I’ll send
George Harris and his mate down. 1 hey
can get enough straight sticks up Vhe
creek for the framework, and I’ll send down
the iron. Have a yam with George about
what sort of a house you want. Got all
that?”
The young man nodded happy assent.
He felt strangely pleased with everything.
It was the exact plan that he had worked
out a long time ago—that Alan Gordon
and he had discussed from all angles.
But not for the world would he say as
much to the boss. Nor did the boss even
distantly imply that he was very well aware
of it. Instead, he sat grinning into his
big moustache—the bomb was ready, but
he held his hand in quiet enjoyment of the
moment.
“Well, that’s settled! And you’ll be
head stockman of that camp from to-day.
“Me!” _
The long sprawling form shot up as n
a red-hot branding-iron had been applied
to his seat. So utterly surprised was he that
he had not observed the two girls come
through the doorway behind him, and at his
surprised tone they stopped short, wonder-
ing whether to advance or retire.
“Good God! But—but what about
Dusty Rhodes? Tom Sanderson? They’re
all better cattlemen!”
Donaldson, knowing his man, had ex-
pected this.
“If I gave the camp to Dusty, would you
work with him?”
“Sure. Good chap, Dusty 1” The voice
was warmly enthusiastic.
“How did he work on the road with the
bullocks?”
“Good! Out on his own!”
Margaret, in the background, was struck
with surprise. Here was a man offered
promotion—congenial promotion—yet he
seemed to be doing his best to get out ot
it, was pressing the claims of other men for
the job, preferring himself to work under
them! Had the man no ambition at alb
Was he content merely to exist?
Donaldson’s deep voice interrupted her
thoughts.
“Well, if Dusty worked so well for you
when you were boss drover, I reckon he'll
work just as well for you as head stockman.
Anyhow, I’m going to give you all the
worst of the blacks for your camp. You
can have two white stockmen —what about
Dusty, and, say, young Scotty? I’ve got
you a good cook—he’s a Chow, but the)
reckon he’s a good old fellow’.
The other man was still too bewildered
to frame further refusals. He had thought
out the scheme in the interests of Corella
to save horses and cattle when grass and
water were scarce, but had never, never
imagined himself as head stockman. It was
against the even tenor of his life; the job
meant a certain loss of freedom in his
relations with the men; really very little in
that democratic country, but still there
would always be just that shade of reluct-
ance in speech when certain subjects came


|jVA
£i i :
m
:: -
W
- ! *
*« «
m
9m
s.
v^r.
1 S
II
VI
«V.l
<1
V
%0
**
* SpOOf>©tfl>s^j
a $'11013944 , m V
; ' (tbq SMUpUtfaj £,>
oi|| ?etp* 43puom wo|jo I %
: ■ t * £ ■• > : - : : :i: ■ : . :; :; ' ' ' : M" " W*$ ■■ - MMWM
*
jt
* ;
*< / I
•> **
*W i
S3mi vjvi wli ■'§ aou vh
BEAR IN MIND
ONE IS SOLD
EVERY TWO MINUTES
“Ideal” Boilers are used the world over and one is sold every two
minutes of the working day. They are British, and are manufactured
in Hull, England, by the National Radiator Co.
41
JDUi.
“IDEAL” Hot Water Boilers
are for the supply of hot water continuously for baths, sculleries,
kitchens and for many trade processes, in an efficient manner
at a lower rate than other systems.
“Ideal” Boilers burn coke, are simple in operation, and raise
50 gallons of hot water from 91b. of coke.
A HOT BATH FOR A PENNY.
Where water is colored by foreign matter, rustproof boilers are
supplied, preventing “rusty” water.
Reduce your expenses—inquire to-day.
“Ideal” Radiators used in conjunction with ‘‘ldeal” Boilers
heat average-sized rooms for 24 hours for about twopence.
Write or call for free booklet.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
up; The idea of responsibility was almost
abhorrent to him.
Then the girls came forward, and he rose
to find a chair for Margaret. Thoughts
of her and how the new position would
affect their relations piled on his already
confused brain. Standing awkwardly, teeth
biting hard on the pipe-stem for inspiration,
he blurted: “Mind if I think it over a
couple of days, Mr. Donaldson?”
“Right-oh, Ken!” and the matter was
closed for the time.
“What’s all the excitement?” Peggy led
off, feeling she had been silent long enough.
“Nothing much, Mischief,” her father
smiled back at her. “Going to take Mar-
garet for a look round to-morrow?”
“Yes. I’m going to parade her before all
hands, and the cook.”
“Thanks!” The subject of discussion
turned to Ken with an impish smile playing
round her lips. “Then we’ll see all the
strong, silent men disappearing over the
horizon at daybreak.”
“Not on your life,” Peggy broke in.
“We won’t be able to keep Scotty Cameron
off the verandah now —he’s our romantic
youth, isn’t he, Ken? Mr. Heath will be
trotting up here all day. She has cut me out
with Uncle Alan—even Ken appears to-
night in a brand-new shirt.”
But Ken had recovered his faculties by
this time. “Well, if you will ask a man to
dinner after he has been on the road for
months, how do you expect him to have a
clean one ready?”
“Poor chap! What’s the matter with old
Muckeye? Isn’t she still your laundress?”
“She’s just a shade rough on shirts. I
reckon she cracked quite a few rocks wash-
ing. the last lot!”
“Well, we’ll let you off this time. But
tell Muckeye—or who does that big yellow
kangaroo-dog belong to?”
“The one with the earmark?”
“Yes, that’s the brute!”
“He belongs to Mary—Willi-aro.”
“Well, if he comes round here scaring
the life out of my kittens, I’ll talk to him
with the gun! Anyhow, I’ll see her in the
morning.” Her tone took on an affected
accent. “After we do the local sights, I’ll
introduce Margaret to our Royal Family.”
She turned laughingly. “In other words,
my dear, we’ll go up to the blacks’ camp.”
“Better leave that till later,” her father
interposed. “Every buck, gin and picca-
ninny will be at the yards in the morning.
Alan mustered the fresh horses this morn-
ing, and there’s a good few colts among
them.” He turned to Ken. “He brought
Axtow in—he ought to be lively after his
spell.”
“Yes, I expect so. Bet he’s been getting
tips from some of the old rogues, too. And
he could buck when we broke him in!”
“That reminds me—that old ruffian of
a Larry Nolan drifted in here a couple of
weeks back. I roared on him for half an
hour about these mongrel stallions of his
playing hell with my mares. He never said
a word—queer for him! That death-adder
must have scared a lot out of him. Any-
how, he reckons he’s getting too old to
work on his own now, and he’s got no
money to pay men. Then he has the hide
to ask if you would go up for a couple of
days and give him a hand to brand some
colts. He seems to have tickets on you.
I suppose he reckons you’re soft enough to
do his work for nothing!”
“Oh, Larry’s not so bad!”
Margaret wondered to herself if this easy-
going, good-natured man could possibly
possess an enemy. He seemed to have
excuses for everyone.
Ken continued evenly: “It’s a bit of a
mystery how he lives—not too many know
just where he lives—and the blacks are scared
of him. He’s mad, of course, but you can’t
blame a man for being mad about horses.”
Donaldson grudgingly assented. “He
hasn’t sold a horse bearing his brand in the
last twenty years, so God knows how he
lives! Like a blackfellow, only worse!
Blacks are all right, but I can’t stand a
black white-fellow. Anyhow,” he added
gruffly, “that’s his message. If you want
to go there’s nothing to stop you. Take a
week off and any gear and tucker you
want.”
“Right-o! Thanks! I’ll go down to
Cattle Camp first and see Muller.”
“I asked him where you would find him,
but he wasn’t giving anything away. Reck-
oned you would know.”
“I’ll find him somehow!” His halting
tone implied that he did know how, and
where; but loyalty prevented his divulging
the secret.
When Ken’s long form had wandered
thoughtfully homewards and Tom had
hobbled off to bed, Peggy and Margaret
foregathered in the former’s room.
“You looked sweet to-night, darling.”
Peggy leaned over and kissed her affection-
ately. “And what a hit we made! Poor
old Ken! I never saw him so flummoxed
since he first came here.”
But she quickly dropped her bantering
tone at the look of distress in the other’s
eyes.
“Don’t, Peg, please!”
She flew across the room and dropped at
Margaret’s knees and threw her arms round
her, and her voice was full of contrition.
“Darling, I’m sorry! I just forgot. I’m a
silly little goat, but you know I wasn’t
really serious.”
“I know, dear.” The fine lines of her
face were set as she gazed over Peggy’s
shoulder. She had noticed it, too, and
she knew that such a thing mustn’t—simply
mustn’t happen.
Peggy looked up at her: “Did you notice
how surprised Ken was when we went out
to the yerandah?” -r
“Yes, what was the matter?”
Peggy’s chuckle returned. “I suppose it
isn’t a secret now. Dad is rearranging
things—making two camps instead of one,
and he wants Ken to run the new camp.
Do you know there are times when I could
positively shake that man? He’s so exasper-
ating!”
Margaret nodded comprehendingly.
“Dad says he’s a good cattleman, and he’s
easily the best horseman on the station,
though Dusty and Joe Taylor have been
breaking in for years, and they can ride.
But nothing short of an earthquake will
make him take charge of a job. He’ll work
under a man not half as capable as himself.
When things go wrong he won’t interfere
till the other man practically gives in, then
he works like fury till things are straight-
ened out, and afterwards he slides back to
the old job and gives the other man the
credit. As a result, he hasn’t an enemy in
the world. He would give away his last
penny”—Peggy waxed indignant. “He’s just
like a big, soft kid. And there are times
when I would give anything to be able to
give him a thorough spanking!”
Margaret’s face wore a smile now. She
understood a lot of things that had been
hidden before, but she wondered whether
there was anything behind Peggy’s vigorous
championship. Her tone bordered on pro-
prietorship, and, in spite of herself, Mar-
garet’s heart contracted.
“But don’t you think he’ll take the job?”
“I don’t know. He probably won’t sleep
to-night because he feels he’s doing some-
one else out of the job. The big idiot!”
She roused herself scornfully. “Come on,
darling. Time you were in bed. We’re
going up to the horseyards early to see the
fun.”
Tom Donaldson grinned tolerantly at the
girls at breakfast in the dim light of early
morning. Outside, the corellas screeched in
snowy clouds around the coolabahs, diving-
down across the face of the water, and
arguing in crescendo as they scrambled up
and down the bare limbs. The melodious
note of a butcher-bird, fresh in his startling
black-and-white livery, mocked a sleepy-
eyed cat, while a distant chorus of frenzied
dogs, howling and barking, betokened an
unusual stir at the blacks’ camp, and added
an incentive to hurry.
“Plenty of time!” Tom’s voice was fath-
erly and soothing. “They have to draft the
horses first, and there will be nothing but
dust and language till that’s over. Any-
how, slip up to the yards as quietly as
possible and get into the blacksmith’s shop.
It’s alongside the round yard, and you’ll
get a good view of everything. Don’t let
anyone see you, though. Some of these
chaps are a bit shy of a gallery. There’s
bound to be some language, but I believe
Margaret’s heard some before!” he added
slyly.
Margaret’s fresh laugh joined his. “I’m
going to pick a horse for myself this morn-
ing.”
The big face became serious. “Be careful,
girl! Not many of these horses are used
to women, and practically every one will
buck when he’s fresh.”
(To be continued newt week.)
Too Fair a Day.
This is the kind of day
When all things lovely say:
“We are eternal; but you pass
Away.”
Here's sunlight soft as mist,
Sunlight as soft as powdery wattle-gold
That slowly kindles down through fold on
fold
Of sea-fog silvery amethyst.
Wonderful as a dream
The gumtrees seem,
Floating in haze like stately swans
Of green and bronze.
“We are eternal; but you pass.”
Ephemeral flowers, with stars renewed, un-
dying—
Color and fragrance reach our ears as sighing
“Alas.”
We crush the ache of fear
With olden comforts dear
Of immortality otherwhere
Than here,
An Afterlife that climbs.
But, think, can she be happy there, who
craves
This very beach with lap of little waves?
Or he, who writes in notes the chimes
And warbled melodies
Of these same trees?
Scoop the dear sand, feel how it grips
Dear finger-tips!
Far heavens oifer little worth,
For all their promise of ecstatic waking,
To those who with an obstinacy heart-
breaking
Love earth.
Warm, windless, yet most pure,
The blue sky’s coverture
Enclasps wide land, wide sea, with arms
Secure.
An anthem sweet and proud,
Its azure rhythms reach us in a song.
The very grass grows to that music strong,
Silence that throbs aloud.
But we (ah, pitiful!)
Feel little shivers pull
Too-willing heartstrings with the throe
Of our own woe.
“From salt of sea and honey of heath you
pass.”
Wild Beauty, is it in truth or bitter error
That we translate your triumph to shadowy
terror:
“Alas”?
Victoria.
ELSIE COLE.


MANGROVITE
LEATHER
COATS
Best quality
Guaranteed
A well • cut, carefully-
made coat of best quality
Calfskin, lined and fin-
ished in very best style.*
A coat you can abso-
lutely rely on to give
wonderful service. Easily
cleaned. Wind proof—
water proof and wear
proof.
Mangrovite quality means
genuine satisfaction.
MEASUREMENTS
REQUIRED
g
es'W-
Chest. Chest with coat buttoned. Centre
seam, back of coat to shoulder seam.
Shoulder seam to elbow. Elbow to just
past wristbone. Length of coat under
collar seam to length required.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
Tanners <J£ Manufacturers
«9 YORK STREET (Wynyard Square). SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the WhlD
unQer ine wnip
Several Grand National Hurdle candi-
dates had an outing over the battens at
Moonee Valley. Punters made no error m
backing Arcadius down to 7 to 4. Les Dutt,
who races the gelding on lease, instructed
J. Winks to adopt waiting tactics. Arcadius
imperilled his chance by blundering at tne
second-last flight, but he-finished strongly,
and vanquished The Locker (pacemaker
throughout) by more than a length. Adsum
was a moderate third. Neither he nor Ihe
Locker is engaged m the. National ;
Arcadius is, with lOst. 51b. Prince of Samos
shaped well for portion of the journey. Owned
by a Perth (W.A.) motor-car salesman, Prmce
of Samos is held on lease by his trainer, Ron
Cameron, who, as jockey, was associated
with the Vjs
bridge 111 1912 Iresolaus impioved on liife
display at Wilhamstown a week before, and
will do. better still ere long. Dookic knocked
up; he lack, the stamina for a threo-m.le
elioit at I lemmgton. ...
Tetcott, who captured the Commonwealth
Steeplechase, has registered a third, a second
and two wins in his last four starts. As on
the occasion of his previous Valley victory,
R. M. Cuthbertson’s prad fought out the
finish with Rakwool, and the latter again
I'frire Don f W™?g a h V t or mado E flu e ““e B oj
Eh? e ’in D WgM t Wd.
r Plirpp runners fell before a mile had been
traversed, and the contest resolved itself into
a match between Tetcott and Rakwool. Four
furlongs from home Rakwool took off about
two lengths behind Tetcott, stifled that fence
gba n bl“^ou'4\av B e a Ln OT «“ S etSSred
by only a length, all out. Rakwool has not
had much experience over solid fences. Ex-
perience teaches, and he may handle Flem-
ington, satisfactorily when the, time comes.
Punters declared strongly for three of Dun-
can’s mounts—Royal Parade, Pacific Flight
QeRT: "1 GOT QUITE THRIU-ED WATCHING
THE GAME
Bert:" Emoting,, WASNt it ? "
OERt: Ves, there were two piavers
I A.DMIRED VERY MUCH,
sert '/'Oh, Who *the other
ONE ? ”
iiiid Pure Blend. Each of these neddies is
trained by Holt. No excuse can be offered for
the failure of Royal Parade in the Ilighweight
Handicap, and Pacific Flight was beaten on
bis merits by Va Vite in the second divi-
sion of the juvenile handicap; but Pure
Blend had her chance in, the last event de-
stroyed by dwelling when the barrier lifted.
On the previous Wednesday three wins were
registered by Duncan at Aspendale Park.
He had an afternoon of “outs” on Saturday.
Ernest Clarke witnessed the Higliweiglit
Handicap triumph of Roc with great satis-
faction. He bred this gelded son of Thrice,
which James Scobie trains for him. There
is something exceeding fine about the loyalty
of E. E. D. Clarke to those who give him
faithful service. If it can be avoided no
jockey other than Bob Lewis ever rides his
horses. Bob was on top of Roc, and got
him home by half a length from Rex Auran-
tic, with Comic Prince a close third. Scobie
did not fancy Roc, and 15 to 1 went beg-
ging. Similar odds were procurable about
Indian Force in the race for which Pure
Blend started a hot favorite. It was a
profitable day for McSliortodds.
Mataram apparently took Bill Tindall by
surprise when he annexed the first division
of the Piccaninny Handicap. After being
quoted at 4 to 1, the Caravel gelding drifted
to 12 to 1 in parts of the ring, Headman (by
Drake) firming to favoritism. Ken Bracken
rode a quiet race on Mataram, who shot
through at the straight entrance and scored
handsomely from Headman. The superior
class of the winner was most palpable, and
lie may develop into a Derby colt. Pacific
Flight was at odds-on for the second divi-
sion. After gaining an early lead the son
of Heroic looked home and dried, but Va
Vite wore him down by a head in a punish-
ing finish. Cecil Godby planked his money
on Spanish Galleon in the Keilor Handicap,
and the Caravel mare (a gift from the late
.T. E. Brewer) ran second to Indian Force.
She had a bad passage, and ought to wm
soon.
% * =i :
For Flemington on Saturday:—
York Hurdle: Catkin; next, Arcadius.
Royal Handicap: Spanish Galleon; next,
Green Wave. * # *
The A.J.C. plans to instal win-and-place
totes at Warwick Farm before the end of
the year. Had they been in operation at
the charming course on Saturday excellent
dividends would have been paid on Dark
Isle (10 to 1) in the Hurdle Race and Belle
Treize (14 to 1) in a division of the St.
John’s Park Nursery Handicap; as it was
backers of Vice Royal in the other division ot
that race received £ll 9s. for 10s. It is to
be hoped that Mr. Colin Stephen and his
committee will decide to cater for the specu-
lator in doubles as well. No expensive appa-
ratus is needed —none lias been set up _ at
the Adelaide and Perth courses where toting
doubles has become an established pastime,
and one very profitable to the clubs concerned.
McShortodds has had cause to rejoice at
the public’s faith in Tom Pinch and Che-
mosh. Tom is apt to strike himself and
Chemosh has difficulty with his breathing, but,
defects and defeats notwithstanding, they
have an army of devoted supporters. Most
of the money risked on the Prospect Handi-
cap was for these three-year-olds, Tom Pmcli
(4 to 1) finishing up a point shorter than
the horse from Walker’s stable. For five fur-
longs Tom looked a winner, but in the straight
he proved no match for little King Crow
(6 to 1), Beckwith being third and Trenette
a close —and unlucky—fourth. King Crow,
a four-year-old chestnut gelding by Crow-
dennis —Greek Girl, is owned by Alf Levy,
once a bookmaker at Kalgoorle, and is
trained at Rosehill by Stanton. He had been
unfortunate in two previous starts.
Another chestnut (Boorcello) was to the
fore in the May Handicap and yet another
(Havaspot) in the Casula Handicap. Both
were well backed-r-Boorcello at fours and
Havaspot at tfirees —and the finishes were
very exciting. Boorcello had little to spare
from old Don Moon, whose rider was of little
use to him at the crisis, while Havaspot—
now trained by George Young; —was hard
pushed by Celtic and Tortoni, the only
others supported to any extent, though there
was a bit of money for Black Douglas. Third
iti the May Handicap was Soulton —Ins best
showing for some months. The ex-Queens-
lander may never return to the form he
showed at the A.J.C. Easter meeting of
1930, when he was second in the Sydney Cup
and should have won a handicap by a street
—but it will be surprising if he doesn’t pay
expenses this winter.
Dark Isle’s showing suggested that this
English horse, a failure on the flat, is going
to turn out a successful hurdler. He is
rather a good-looking black. And Chats-
wood (5 to 2) beat Reviser impressively in
the steeplechase. Owned and trained by
Pat Nailon, who used to train his sire, El
Dorado, he is only in his fifth vear; still
four-year-olds —Hayseed, for instance —have
won big steeples before now.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap; Carnella; next, Green-
corn. . ,
Canterbury Handicap: Flinders; next,
Chrysotta.
Trial Stakes: Just Gold.
Ashbury Handicap: Waipori; next,
Gleaner.
And for Randwick on Monday:—
June Stakes: Promptitude; next, Greensea.
Hurdle Race: Dark Isle ; next, Drake.
First Steeplechase: Chatswood.
Ellesmere Handicap: Comanche; next,
Troilus.
* * , * *
“Fitzcray”: The V.R.C. has bowed to
the inevitable and reduced the prices of
admission to Flemington. The 4s. 6d. charge
to the Hill will stay as it is, but the lawn
will cost, men 13s. instead of 14s. 6d., and
women 6s. 6d. instead of 7s. 6d. Saddling
paddock charges drop in the case of men
from ss. 6d. to 45., while the lasses will go
on parting up the same old 3s. N.S.W.
racing authorities might take note —suburban
clubs in particular.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: Many Australians who
have attended races in the South of England,
especially the Derby, will recall “Kate,”
who sold race-cards and was popularly sup-
posed to have been on the spot in Diomed’s
year. She was a particular pal of the late
King Ned, who always gave her a sovereign
for a card, a point she never failed to im-
press on lfess exalted clients. The old lady
is dead, at 80-odd. She was the last of a
long line of ladies following the same pro-
fession. “Fair Helen.” “Big Ann” and “Sally
Birch” were equally famous in their day.
Sally was so revered by the “heads” that when
she died on Chester racecourse they threw
in liberally for her funeral, and stayed a
day over the meeting to attend it.
* * * *
“Roodee”: Though the tote seems to have
caught on in Britain, the annual report of
the Betting Control Board, which supervises
its workings., shows that the expected profit
to be devoted to the encouragement of .horse-
breeding and charities has not yet material-
ised. The income covered operating and
administrative costs but not interest and
depreciation. Over 30 per cent, of the
tickets were on the £1 and £5 totes, the
10s. window averaging 26 p.c. and the 2s.
25 p.c. “Chit” and off-course betting, un-
known iu Australia, was 15 p.c. of total
investments. Starting prices all round were
far in advance of those offered by Ike.
* # * - *
“Taranaki”: The Bulletin has more
than once starred the Aga Khan as *the
only saint in captivity to run a string of
i-acehorses. His record is now to be chal-
lenged by a Maori rival, no less a potentate
than Ratana, famous throughout the Shivery
Isles as a “prophet” and worker of miracles.
Ratana recently bought a couple of two-year-
olds out of the offerings of the faithful, and
will give them their first spin at a coming
Otaki meeting. He is doing his own train-
ing, having laid down a track near his pah.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Fred Hannaberry (10.4) lost his first
decision in 20 contests to Russ Critcher
(10.2|) at Leichhardt. Against Wally Han-
cock, three weeks earlier, Hannaberry had
boxed brilliantly, and won 14 out of 15
rounds. He was 3£lb. lighter against
Critcher, and seemed unable to strike form
till it was too late. The winner was in
superb shape, and fast unorthodox fighting
earned him 12 of the first 14 rounds. Hanna-
berryl won the 15th by a mile.
* * * *
Billy Grime (9st. 101 b.) and Freddie
Welsh (9st. 61b.) were parties to the prin-
cipal bout of a mixed programme at the
Melbourne Stadium, and gave the new
referee, Alf Bridges, plenty to do. Grime’s
unorthodox methods worried Welsh; so did
Fred’s left eye, for which Grime went from
the start. Grime poked out his left and
cleverly avoided punishment; and these tac-
tics earned the tired ancient a decision at
the end of 12 rounds.
* * * *
Endeavoring to emulate. Greek John
Kilonis as a showman, Tommy Nilan (11.7)
furnished plenty of thrills to a thin crowd
at Sydney Stadium, when he wrestled Jack
Hamon (ll.Oi). Though not as rough or as
spectacular as his adversary, Hamon was the
better wrestler and gained the first fall with
a “key-lock” in the fourth round. Nilan
then went berserk, and was disqualified at
the instance of police-inspector Mortimer for
throwing Hamon over the ropes in the next
round.
Footbrawl
Another 40,000 crowd covered the high
banks of the big Carlton Oval when the
Old Blues met Collingwood’s Magpies. A
high wind alternately helped, each side, but
much better marking and a nicer understand-
ing between its forwards gave Carlton the
advantage—lo 7 points to ’Wood’s 91. Out
at Essendon the locals heartened their bar-
rackers by fast, systematic play which gave
them a 20-point lead over the Tigers at half-
time. But the third term was all Rich-
mond’s, and though ’Don battled hard to
the finish the Tigers remained undefeated —
Richmond 86, ’Don 72. Twenty thousand
spectators at the M. C. Ground watched the
Footscray-Melbourne match. ’Scray kept the
Red Legs moving throughout, but could
never get a grip on the game, finishing with
71 to Melbourne’s 87. For the fourth, time
this season Hawthorn just failed to win by
less than a goal. Right throughout it held
South Melbourne, chiefly by better marking
and handling; when the game was almost
won a little slackening let South rush a
goal and a 3-point win—79 to Hawthorn’s
76. Geelong welcomed Fitzroy with a 1242
gate, from 9000 enthusiasts, and passed the
Maroons a trouncing for their trouble, piling
up 140 points to ’Roy’s 75. St. Kilda had
an afternoon’s practice at North Melbourne’s
expense— St. K. 97, North 52.
* * * *
“Robbo”; That controversy over the
Westralian footballer Hough, who is held
up in Melbourne because his narked ex-cob-
bers in Groperland have refused him a clear-
ance to the Victorian League (B. 27/5/’3l),
has reached an acuter stage. The Vies,
wired to the Perth employers of Hough, and
these wrote saying that he had been sent
to the Melbourne branch of the firm for
business reasons, no question of football
entering into the matter. Victoria there-
upon forwarded the letters to Perth by air
mail, with an ultimatum demanding the in-
stant release of Hough. Probably the West-
ralian’s bosses would have been willing to
walk round to the Perth office of the local
football junta and explain matters. Evi-
dently that is too simple for the Higher
Football Diplomacy, which accounts for the
exchange of protocols and notes. What will
happen if Westralia refuses to consider the
air-mail demand gives one the creeps to
think of.
* * * *
Saturday was something of a field-day for
the Rugby codes. At Brisbane the N.S.W.
Rugby Union side got home by an unex-
pectedly wide margin from the Banana-
landers, scoring 28-15 (5 tries and 3 con-
verted goals and a penalty goal by Ross) to
2 tries, Steggall converting one of these and
adding a field and a penalty goal. The tour-
ists had the better* of the game forward and
back. Palmer on the wing showed the form
that brought him selection for the Waratahs
three years ago, and Ross was at Ins best.
His opposite number among the Queens-
landers, Steggall, was also attractive, lne
Queensland inside backs were the weak link
in the side, while the forwards were out-
weighted,
* * * *
At Sydney Uni. Oval, the M.L. Universi-
ties made short work of a pick-up ISavy
team, winning 22 to nil. Ruru, at centre,
was again the star of the visitors, and
McKeclinie, at extra five-eighth, played grea.
football. Showers defended well for Aavy
at full-back, but the side sadly needed some
practice together.
* * * *
In the Sydney club matches, Manly, in
spite of Malcolm’s absence in Queensland,
maintained its supremacy, beating Lastem
Suburbs 25-8 (6 tries, 2 goals to a try plus
a goal and a penalty by Stewart) before a
big crowd on the Village Randwick
also scored well against University at Googee,
winning 34-19, with Cyril Towers at his
top. At Petersham Oval, Northern Suburbs
overcame Western ditto by 23-3, Duncan
landing 5 goals during an unattractive game.
Drummoyne, with eight of its regular side
away, was good enough to hand St. George
its sixth successive defeat by 10-5.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Victorian Rugby players are
taking themselves very seriously nowadays,
and in spite of the popularity of the national
code, the imported game has a solid and in-
creasing following. It is a thousand pities
N.S.W. cannot fit in a match with Victoria
this year, either in Sydney or Melbourne.
The Victorian standard has improved greatly
within the last two seasons.
* # * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League pegged all
grade matches on Saturday in favor of the
trial games between first and second coun-
try and two metropolitan sides at Sydney
Sports Ground. City won both but
was lucky to land the first, in which the
final scores were 17-15, a penalty goal by
C. Pearce at three-quarter time practically
clinching the issue. Pearce landed four
goals. The country half-backs, Butler
and McGlynn, outplayed Pope and Norman,
while Griffin, on the wing, prove a strong
runner. Prigg and Kingston were the pick
of the country forwards. Hong, was solid
as the city full-back, and Brogan and
O’Connor took the honors in the vanguard.
The match between the secoiid teams saw
Country defeated 45-12, the visitors going to
bits in the second half. Owen was outstand-
ing for City at scrum-half, and his feat in
landing 7 goals helped him to his N.S.W.
cap against Queensland.
:J: * * *
The League side to meet Queensland at
the Sports Ground next Saturday contains
some surprises.' Owen, selected as half and
captain, figured for N.S.W. in Queensland
in 1927 —he plays for Western Suburbs.
Country players in the State team are L.
Griffin (Aberdeen), W. Prigg (Newcastle),
J. Kingston (Young) and R. Duncan (Kurn
Kurri). Two or three more of the country-
men might have found places in the side with
advantage to it.
* * * *
Queensland Rugby League has chosen 20
players for the games in Sydney against
N.S.W. on June 6 and 13. Fourteen of them
come from the country, Toowoomba contribu-
ting 6of these last and Ipswich 5. One or
two others like Armbruster and Snencer are
city players who have “gone bush.” The
tourists will tackle Young, on June 10, and
Lismore on their way back to Bananaland.
(Continued on next page.)


Footbrawl
“Hooker”: Looking on at the opening
match of the M.L. Universities against Syd-
ney Uni. last week, one could not but be
struck by the tremendous difference made by
the absence of Waratah Alec Ross from the
full-back position. Mutton, who now fills the
possie, is capable and willing, yet one saw
the Blacks take advantages from errors
which would never have been afforded them
by the man who now plays for Eastern
Suburbs and is the custodian for the N.S.W.
side in Queensland. His appearance in Bris-
bane on Saturday was his 21st for N.S.W.
Never a great showman, unlike the Maori
Nepia, Ross can be ranked with the best
full-backs Australasia has produced.. Giving
Nepia in on his British record —though his
play here didn’t invite bouquets—Ross can
stand in the same class with Bob McGowan,
of Queensland, and Larry Dwyer, of N.S.W.
Perhaps the kingpin of the lot of them was
Billy Wallace, of Maoriland.
* M * *
Theodore Hantke, who died suddenly the
other day in Perth, was a notable South Aus-
tralian athlete a generation or so ago, and
was particularly distinguished in football,
playing for Norwood and Sturt clubs. He
was also a fine cricketer and field athlete,
being champion athlete of Prince Alfred
College, where Clem Hill was a contem-
porary. Going to the Westralian goldfields,
be carried on his football there and in
Perth, whither he retired later to found a
business.
s|c :|c
“Cash Amateur”: Amateur Soccer, which
is now played throughout the Continent of
Europe and in other lands outside the Brit-
ish Dominions, is one of those games which
have passed under the control of an inter-
national governing body, always excepting
the British sections. The International
Federation, with headquarters in Berlin, has
resolved to inaugurate a world’s champion-
ship on the lines of the Davis Cup. It will
be held every four years, the 16 winners in
the various zones playing off in a final
spasm at one centre. The show will lack
the support of the British Association and
its affiliated bodies. The Federation is in
favor of “broken-time” payments to play-
ers to compensate them for losses due to
absence from work. Britain, which nearly
wrecked the last Olympiad by insisting on
the cancellation of this principle, will have
none of it.
* * sis * si:
“Stand Off”: The Combined M.L. Uni-
versities side opened in Sydney a day after
jumping their ship, yet had no difficulty
in downing Sydney U'ni. by 16 to 3 (3 tries,
2 converted, and a penalty goal to a penalty
goal). The game was played, under inter-
national rules, and, considering the infernal
condition of the quagmire which is Uni. Oval
after heavy rain, was fast and interesting.
Well used' to the conditions, the visitors
nevertheless showed that they were an excep-
tionally good side, likely to shape even better
with drier going underfoot. Though they
mainly relied on dribbling, occasional hand-
ling bouts with a ball like a greased pig
marked their quality. In Bush the Blacks
have an exceptional full-back. Ruhu, in
the centre, and Mackay," on the wing, played
notable football, while a .sterling vanguard
revelled in its opportunity. With scores 13-3
against them in the first half, the Sydney
lads battled like Britons in the second, giv-
ing only three points away. The forwards
were untiring. The inside backs were lament-
ably weak, to the detriment of the two wing-
ers, Hemingway and Kennedy.
* *:= * *
“Past Grammar”: Not often in Australia
does one see a lad still at school represent-
ing liis State in Rugby football. In Eng-
land there have been one or two instances,
while in Scotland, w'here youngsters stay
rather longer in their public schools,
it is no uncommon thing to find a
“boy” from Loretto, Fettes or Edinburgh
Academy being handed a Scotland cap. Lyn
Wood, who is playing centre-three for
Queensland this season, is still at Too-
woomba Grammar School, and is accounted
one of the best in his position that Banana-
land has produced to date —and that is say-
ing something. The only parallel that the
writer can remember was that of H. P.
Abbott, of Brisbane Grammar. While still
at school he played against the M.L. native
side in 1889 and against N.S.W. in the same
year and that following. What he did for
N.S.W. against his native State and M.L.
after he went to Sydney Uni. is football
history.
“Bowen Bridge”: I note a Sydney foot-
ball writer has been complaining about the
“timidity” of the N.S.W. Rugby Union as
regards Queensland’s views, especially as the
Queensland Union is “of such recent estab-
lishment.” The Northern R.U., now the
Queensland, was founded in 1882, which is
far from being as recent as some of us might
wish. For many years the Queensland
matches kept up the standard of Rugby in
the two States, with occasional interludes
for a tilt at Maoriland. Now that the ama-
teur code has come back to a State where it
was always tremendously popular, this carp-
ing spirit shows poor sportsmanship.
❖ $ t-
“Fend”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union has
finalised matters in connection with the Aus-
tralian tour of Maoriland in August. Queens-
land will be playing in Sydney just before
the selection is made. Victoria will not be
sending a side, but one of the Australian
selectors is to go over and witness a trial
match, and perhaps earmark a likely recruit
or two for the team. Westralia, where the
game is now soundly established in a small
way, is also eager for recognition. The local
union has been 'asked to nominate players,
but it will have to pay the expenses of their
journey to Sydney and back. As an alter-
native, a selector, will visit Perth, provided
the Gropers are willing to foot the bill.
* * *
“Cash Amateur”: One aspect of profes-
sional sport which has already caused the
N.S.W. Rugby League, which first introduced
paid football to N.S.W., some qualms is the
difficulty of enforcing discipline among
affiliated leagues. Last year, the Temora
club, which had hired the services of five-
eighth Weissel, refused to release the young
man for inter-State games, considering that
it was more urgent that he should play
with his club in a local cup contest on which
there was heavy wagering. The trick has
been repeated this season m connection with
Country Week, but the League seems to be
impotent. Any other athletic association
would make short, work of an organisation
defying its authority, but beyond some indig-
nant correspondence, nothing has been done.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: The Australian Tennis Coun-
cil has issued the annual ranking list for
the year from its Melbourne dug-out, and
this contains one or two surprises. Craw-
ford is number one, but Hopman is promoted
to second place vice Moon, who is third;
Cummins is fourth and Turnbull fifth. Among
the women Mrs. Crawford has been put ahead
of Mrs. Buttsworth, a; rating which will
not meet with unanimous approval in
N.S.W. Queenslander Mrs. Molesworth is
third, but not everyone will agree with the
placing of the South Australian champion-
ette, Kitty Le Mesurier, eighth on the bill.
“Top Spin”: The first- of the big annual
tennis events abroad, the French champion-
ship meeting, spread over a fortnight, began
last week with the preliminaries of the
doubles and mixed doubles. Cochet and
Brugnon hold the doubles title, beating our
Hopman and Willard in the final last year.
There is a big entry of Americans; S’Africa
is also represented; Australia, of course, is
out of it. The French meeting will be fol-
lowed by Wimbledon, which begins on June
22. Here again this country, which once
figured so regularly there, wall be a non-
starter.
* * *
“Cut Shot”: The annual meeting of the
International Tennis Federation in Paris
early next year promises to be a lively one.
The chief business will be an attempt to
alter the management of the Davis Cup
tourney. At present the Federation has
control of all tennis save the Davis Cup. and
HER OATH.
GOLFER (as she foozles her shot) : “D-damn!”
CADDIE : “You’re improving, Miss.”
there is a strong consensus of opinion that
the management of this also should pass to
the international body, since the present
divided system leads to a good deal of clash-
ing with other outstanding tennis events.
For this reason also many of the Davis Cup
countries want to see the tourney held every
two years instead of annually. Britain and
the Dominions are in favor of this, but
America is strongly opposed, as she is to the
proposal to merge the Cup committee in the
Federation, so it is not unlikely that the pot
will boil over in Paris.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Queensland's golf cham-
pionships in Brisbane saw the Southrons
sweep the board. Sinclair, winner of the
open championship, though he lives in
Bananaland, rose to fame as a golfer in
N.S.W. Ivo Whitton, of Victoria, cleaned
up the singles championship in great style,
and also took the doubles with J. C. Mcln-
tosh, of Lismore (N.S.W.). Whitton’s oppo-
nent in the final for the singles was Colin
Thompson, the first member of an extra-
metropolitan club iu Queensland to rise to
such glittering heights. He hails from Rock-
hampton. Among the professionals, Gray,
Bolger and Eyre, all of N.S.W., won lucrative
cash events.
“Bloggs” : Golf is the only game I know
at which a trifling handicap is enough to
bring a third-rater and a champion of cham-
pions together. Look at the feat of the
Duke of York last week in going round the
first nine holes of the difficult Sandwich
links in 37. Bobby Jones would have been
lucky to do better. At billiards, cricket,
tennis, footb.all, etc., it is a case of “Carbine
first and the rest nowhere.” The equivalents
of the “week-end players” of golf never have
their days at-such games; they are permanent
mugs. So compartmcnted are the other
sporting classes that a player who blunders
into one a grade or so above his own ruins
the game for everybody.
, “Brassey”: The N.S.W. Golf Council has
decided on sweeping changes in the system
of handicapping. The new scheme institutes
a national method founded on the capacity
of golfers to play to an average of fours per
round. The clubs within the metropolitan area
have also been advised to substitute par for
Bogey, taking the handicap of each club’s
best player as fixed by the council as the
basis for the par score. Par stands for the
perfect score for each hole; Bogey for a
score arbitrarily fixed. The dual system
calls for dual handicapping ; with the aboli-
tion of the Colonel, only one handicap is
called for.
“Carnoustie”: This year’s British ama-
teur golf championship carried a more flip-
pant atmosphere than generally obtains in
the world-famous ritual. The winnex 1 , Mar-
tin Smith, a Cambridge undei'grad., entered
“for a lark,” as he put it, and without the
slightest hope of doing any good. About the
only university man in residence writer can
recall as having taken the coveted title is
Cyril Tolley, a Cambridge man also.
“D.”: According to a cable, in the £lOOO
Leeds tournament “Daragon (162) hit five
balls out of bounds at the eighth, which is
unparalleled in a first-class tournament. He
took 14 for the hole,” As he only lost
distance by hitting out. of boxxnds it means
that he took nine to do the hole, which is
as astonishing as the other performance.
Anyone may be defeated by a mental hazard
—Kirkwood is said to have put three run-
ning into the flax at the 18th at Rose Bay—
but nine on a course where no hole has a
higher bogey than five is rabbit’s work.
“No. 2” : What is the most exasperating
breach of the decencies of golf? I nominate
slow playing. A characteristic of all slow
players, and particularly dud ones, is their
reluctance to let faster matches through.
Fast players, and particularly those of class,
seem to have no feelings on the subject. I
can speak from experience. A friend and I
(handicaps 18 apiece) had the experience of
being _ waved through by Tolley after he had
mislaid his ball on the R.A.C. course near
Epsom. In the same year—viz., 1927 —I saw
the English Open won, by the slowest golfer
on earth —Dr. Tweddell. His methods were
indescribable in their maddening gradual-
ness. They completely demoralised the oppo-
sition, and, incidentally, made him the most
unpopular man in the British sporting world
for a time, How rare slow players of
championship class are, by the way'l Ton
had to be something of a sprinter to keep
up with most of those I have watched in
my time, and the better they were the
faster they played, as a rule.
* * * Jj:
“Sandringham”: One of the great events
of the golfing year in the Cabbage Garden
is the annual match for caddies. This year
it was held on the A 7 ictoria club’s course,
drawing an entry of 120 boys, representing
11 clubs. A morning stroke round eliminated
all but 11, and these played another 18 holes
stroke to decide the championship. The purse
and trophy went to L. Duffy, a brother of one
of the professionals at Yarra Yarra, avlio re-
turned a card of 84 for the deciding round.
“Gelt” : Golf is spreading in Mandated New
Guinea. The game is well established in
Rabaul, and a nine-hole course has recently
been opened at Buka Passage. The actions
of the white masters on a golf links are
past the comprehension of local natives who
describe the game thus: “Masta he fight 'im
ball long stick; now ball he go. go, go 'lon--
way too much. Now he lose. Masta he find
’im, find : im, now he no stop. Now he look
’im, now he fight ’im one-time more, ball
he no go long way; he no lose; now Masta
he cross plenty too much. S’pose ball he
lose Masta he no cross; s’pose ball he no
lose Masta he cross plenty. He all-tlie-
same what-narne ?’’
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: A noteworthy long-dis-
tance run from Perth to Brisbane and back
in a Chevrolet Six was recently brought off
by C. Christensen, a Westralian, who was
accompanied by his wife. When leaving
Perth he was warned by experts to carry all
sorts of spare parts, but, save for a couple
of extra tyres, did not do so. The confidence
was justified, for the car, which had already
run 6000 miles, made the 9000-mile trip
without a mishap, save for one or two
punctures. Fuel consumption averaged 25
miles to the gallon.
* ■>' ❖ *
“Whizz”: Mrs. G. Stewart, with all re-
spect to her, can fairly claim to be one of
the fastest women on earth. She sent a
Derby Miller car over 100 metres on the
Montlhery track the other day at a rate of
128.09 m.p.h., eclipsing her own world’s
record for the distance. Her previous best
was 123.520 m.p.h. that spin also being put
up in France in 1929. She specialises in
the small-ear stuff—up to 350 c.c.
“Brooklands” ; British workmen are, busy
on the great motor speedway which will
stretch, when completed, 15 miles in a
straight line along the coast of Lincolnshire,
and will be unique of its kind. The track,
which will be double, permitting a return
journey, is being constructed on useless land
flooded at high tides, and the first job is
the building of a retaining wall. The speed-
way proper will be 200 yards wide, and con-
creted, and when completed it is nrobable
that all existing land speed records will go
west. In addition to this track there will
be another 12 miles long for road-racing
events, and a six-mile canal for motor-boat
racing. An aerodrome is also included in the
layout, and the provision of grandstands,
etc., will excel anything yet seen in Britain.
“Amphib.”: Several attempts have been
made to design a practicable car which can
travel on either land or water, but none has
proved effective. Malins and Oliver, the
two English motor-cyclists who toured the
world a couple of years ago, seem to have
hit upon a workable idea. This consists in
specially-made airbags fitted one on each
side of the car when required. On land
journeys they are carried deflated in a box.
When water has to be crossed the bags are
blown up and the machine run into the
river or lake. Experiments on the Severn
have shown that the bags easily floated the
car used with the water at running-board
level. So far, the floating car has been
propelled by paddles, but there seems no
reason why some means of driving from the
engine cannot be evolved. When that comes
to pass the round-the-world motor tour will
be literally possible, with all intervals of
steamship travel cut out.
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman scored an-
other notable win in Europe by taking the
Lyons-Geneya road race from 60 competi-
tors. The distance is 375 kilometres (233
miles), and the ’Victorian got over this in
12 hours 46 minutes. The route followed is
very mountainous, and the time must be con-
sidered good for a scratch event. This is
Opperman’s second good win in a fortnight,
and indicates that the experience gained in
.Continental racing methods on his last visit
to France is standing him in good stead.
The big objective of the tour, the great race
round France, in which he will ride with
his three mates as a team, starts on June 30.
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum, who
opened his Australian season with a match
against Englishman Tommy Newman at
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries, Sydney, this
week, told a Sydney interviewer that lie
hoped to make a 5000 break before the tour
is finished. The champion added that he
could score 1000 in 40 minutes, and all
going well could keep that up for three
hours, which he reckoned was about the
limit of human endurance. Indeed, it is
his staying power in these big breaks that
lias made Walter the master that he is. The
mental concentration necessary is even more
exhausting than the continued muscular exer-
tion, and there is far more of that in bil-
liards than most people suppose.
“Stumps”: Maorilander C. S. Dempster,
who is knocking up hundreds u la Brad-
man, is at home on English Avickets. With
the M.L. team in 1927 he scored six cen-
turies, and topped the list with 2231 runs,
averaging 54.41. In 1929-30, when the
M.C.C. team happened along to M.L., Demp-
ster scored 341 runs, av. 85.25, in Test
matches, sending Wellington barrackers wild
with delight with 136 and 80 not out in the
second Test, and with ,T. E. Mills rattling
up 276 for the first Avicket in the first inn-
ings. Dempster, Avhen at home, is coach
to Wellington Cricket Assoc., and appears
to have many years of cricket ahead of
him, since he will be only 28 on Nov. 15.
“Lansdowne”: One of the most interest-
ing things in “Wisden’s Almanack” concerns
lan Peebles, the English googlie bowler.
Peebles is the only cricketer I ever heard of
who started at the top and didn’t have to
Avork his way there, like the W. G. Graces,
Trumpers and Bradmans must needs do.
Fresh from Glasgow Academy Avhen lie was
19, and before he had played in a match of
importance, the schoolboy bowler was chosen
to represent the Gentlemen against the Play-
ers at the Oval, and the North against the
South at Folkestone. A few months later
he had played in four Test games in South
Africa without ever having appeared for an
English county. Not until the next season
did he turn out for Middlesex. He was 22
when he Avent up to Oxford, certain of his
blue, of course, and almost in a class of his
own on his performances, and even if he
didn’t AA'in his side the match against Cam-
bridge, he showed himself the best bowler on
the English side in the last two Tests against
Australia. Whatever the future may have
in store for Peebles —who left Oxford be-
cause he couldn’t get leave for his second
trip to South Africa —no player in the whole
history of the game has ever “arrived” with
such suddenness.


(Under'
/Royal
jJMarrant
f
ToH.M
Kin£>
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagkc
'^arlesHeidsteo*
REIMS
" MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
■
£*li •**
Weaning time
is Benger time
When weaning time comes,
give Benger’s Food during the
transition stage from the breast
to ordinary food.
for Infants,
Invalids and the Aged
Benger’s Booklet containing a Concise Guide to the rearing of Infants post free
from Benger's Food, Ltd., 350, George Street, Sydney.
A.264 e Sole Manufacturers : BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
Sleek hair
Make your hair sleek, soft and
lustrous by feeding its dry,
weakened roots with the rich,
pure nourishment of Rowland s
Macassar Oil every day.
0 f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
alters
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
J. H. & CO.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Weddings arc usually dull affairs, but the
only dull thing about Betliia Anderson’s
wedding to her upstanding lieutenant was
the weather. Inside St. James’s the. gold
epaulets of the Navy jutted impressively
from broad shoulders, the; Men of Mons
blazed with medals, and sparkling-eyed little
Girl Guides stood at ease: in the Guide inter-
pretation of the term. Guests were taken to
tlieir places with military alacrity bv young-
soldiers, who afterwards merged into grooms-
men or part of the general atmosphere.
Marly-comers were stirred by' spurts of
excitement as the important people trod the
aisle. The bride’s mother, Mrs. Anderson,
squired by ’groom’s father, Brigadier-General
Foott, caused nearly as much of a flutter
as the bride. She carried' a cluster of
roseate blooms against very correct frocking,
beige gold in tone. The Governor’s lady
also favored pale gold tones in her velvet
wrap with its rich fur collar and cuffs. All
Government House was there: the Governor,
Commander Gifford in his Air Force blue,
and the popular Miss Crowdy.
There was no waltz or jazz step up the
aisle about this bridal procession; in fact
the principal and her seven attendants had
rather the air of counting their paces to
the altar. And this might have been the case,
for the day previous a most careful re-
hearsal had been gone ; though, with Lady
Game acting as the “bride.” Wattle, together
with the l’ich, strong hues of marigold
burned upon the altar, with, of course, a
serving of time-honored white lilies. Rose-
mary Game, a nice mixture of innocence
and primroses, was trainbearer, and this
Letter liked the way in which the brides-
maids’ dresses fell in stiff folds, as though
they had been sculped. Press nhotographers
had a regular field-day; and one presumes
that the patient crowds on the pavements
in the streaming rain had their reward when
swords glittered into an arch on St. James's
steps, and the soldier and his lass passed
to their car.
At Government House you positively
tripped over the photographers. Before the
guests had arrived from the church they
had their batteries trained on the staircase,
they were settled on the terrace as closely as
the poached egg on its toast, and they took
flying shots at the ballroom, where a mile or
so of table sparkled like the Aurora Aus-
tralis with wedding presents. Only an auc-
tioneer’s catalogue could find space for the
details, but some family silver brought to Aus-
tralia by Captain Neilley, of the 40th Regi-
ment, in the days when it was a colony of
his more or less ungracious Majesty George
IV., and some spoons and forks which had
served a forebear, William Mather, in
17GO and an Anderson grandsire in the same
century called for note. Yet the real mag-
nificence was the claret jug given by
General and Mrs. Anderson to their
daughter. It was solid silver, exquisitely
chased and gold-lined; it had been a
gift from the people of Mauritius to the
General’s father. There was a silver salver
from the Men of Mons and one from the
groomsmen; there were cheques from the
State Excellencies and from the Chief Jus-
tice Streets (and a dozen Or so more) ; there
were phonograph records from Myrtle Meggy,
including “The Song of the Nightingale,”
books from poetess Ruth Bedford and a
painting from the Roland Wakelins. Indeed
there were so many pictures that Bethia
should have enough to furnish the walls of
the flat in Melbourne which is to be her
new home. Clarice Faithfull Anderson,
Sadie Budge, Betty Chisholm, Gwen and
Jean Ramsay, Margaret Vernon and Sydney
Foott were the shimmering golden girls who
surrounded the parchment satin and Iloniton
lace of the bride. There were 350 guests,
and there was champagne for all.
Mark Hambourg, back in Sydney after
nearly a quarter of a century, finds every-
thing changed (though possibly he will recog-
nise the Town Hall chairs) and.many of his
old friends dead. Among these were The
Bulletin’s “Hop” and J. D. Fitz Gerald, one-
time Minister for Health. The old Athenaeum
Club was their meeting ground, and an
occasional visit to FitzGeralds’ circus made
a diversion from Beethoven and Chopin.
Mark is a cheery little man who is said
to bring with him an infallible cure for cor-
pulence. Certainly he himself carries no
suggestion of the bowler-hat front, and his
wife is slim as a willow wand. The pair
produce with pride photos, of their four
(laughters, of whom Sonia, the eldest,_ is. a
journalist, and Michal (11) a musician.
Of some of the modern Russian composers
the pianist says it would take an Egyptolo-
gist to read the script; of the old he classes
Beethoven, Chopin and Bach as the most
likely to stand the test of time. Of the Sit-
wells, the Hambourgs consider Osbert the
most charming, and Belloc, Mark says, is
greater than Chesterton. He doesn’t think
his daughters would read Tennyson; they
are too highbrow. But the highbrows are
discovering Tennyson, so perhaps lie’s wrong
in this. The happy couple are staying at
the Australia.
The Peter Dawsons make No. 3, Onslow
Gardens, their Sydney headquarters, and
their telephone number is FL2575. Peter
claims to have applied Pel man ism to the
learning of this number. He has the round
eye of perfect vision, and says he can see
every movement of a hand or eye in the
audience before him. He is constantly learn-
ing new songs, pointing out that the era of
the gramophone and the radio has ruined
the good old days when a concert-singer
could pass to a peaceful end and leave thou-
sands behind him on a repertoire of two
dozen songs and six oratorios. “Of course,
you mustn’t forget the old favorites,” he adds.
“But the concertgoers won’t let you. I have
sung the ‘Floral Dance’ so often that I feel
as though I have cowslips growing in my
ears.” He hasn’t; but his wife has grown
some fine fur coats and a nice line in
jewellery from Peter’s singing of that and
other mellifluous popularities.
That unconquerable bit of old Sydney the
Argyle Cut saw something of its former
Sabbath glory return last Sunday night. It
was the 90th anniversary of Holy Trinity,
which in the old days was the garrison
church of the State, and' the occasion was
marked by a historical parade service in
which the military and navy took part, while
a congregation of nearly 1000 filled the
pews. The Governor was present, and Arch-
gaiters Wright preached the sermon.
A wild, wet night did not interfere with
the attendance at Levitzki’s final concert.
The young man (he had his 3.3 rd birth-
day last Sunday) was in good form, and
gave his listeners measure for measure of
goodwill; he played till nearly half-past
eleven, though the programme ended about
twenty past ten. After that time the
multi-colored background on the organ gal-
lery seats disentangled its threads and be-
came a mass of individual girls grouping
themselves around the artist, clamoring for
this or that favorite. It was an electric
house, and Levitzki himself was sparking
in every cylinder, though he had been prac-
tising at the Town Hall until five o’clock.
A notable feature of the season was the sus-
tained good frocking of the front-seaters, and
Wednesday night, in spite of the tale the
heavens were telling, was no exception.
Three cheers for the Vagabonds, who
scored another success with their produc-
tion of “The Alarm Clock,” in which Ruby
Coxhead played with a true sense of low
comedy the part of a middle-aged widow
with a marriageable daughter. The result
was a cheque for £126 plus an electric wire-
less set for Miss I. R. Huxley, to whom the
performance was a testimonial. When you
remember that the tickets for the show were
priced at 2s. 6d. you can see that somebody
worked hard.
Mrs. Bernard Muscio is well known to
Sydney as president of the Lyceum Club and
president of the National Council of Women..
She is a writer
of discernment,
and her lean-
ings have
always been to
the University
rather than to
the Stadium.
So it is rather
a surprise to
learn that
when the time
is ripe—and a
double dissolu-
tion would
ripen it speed-
ily—s h e in-
tends to offer
herself for
selection as
candidate for
the Common-
wealth Senate.
Sydney women
are once more
becoming ambitious of political honors, or
at least political usefulness. Up to the
present this has been a man-managed
world —and look at the mess every nation
is in! Women couldn’t have headed the
ship more steadily for the rocks. Perhaps
the recipe for sane governments is an even
mixture of the sexes. Falk made this picture.
The concert at Ginaghulla, the home of
Miss Mary Fairfax, drew all the best cars
out to Bellevue H'ill last Thursday night. The
affair was in aid of the District Nursing
Association; it had been launched by Lady
Game, and was carried to its success by the
Knox and Fairfax clans plus as gilt-edged a
committee as the city can muster. To Mrs.
Horace Sheller and Mrs. Walter Swinson go
the cheers for a programme professional in
its artistry. The dining-room at Ginaghulla
provided an almost cathedral-like atmosphere
with its stained glass windows and gleaming
candelabra. In the audience were the Gov-
ernor and Lady Game, her gold lace train
gleaming beneath an amethystine cloak.
Among the handsome matrons wats Mrs. Wil-
fred Fairfax, her ethereal-blue chiffons topped
bv a short black velvet coat. With her were
daughter Margaret and Melbourne girl Bever-
ley Jackson. Mrs. Oscar Paul emerged vivid
above a collar of ermine and flowing blue
raiment. Secretary Mrs. H. C. Adams
trailed dahlia-red georgettes, and pretty Mrs.
Warwick Fairfax warmed her black tulle
with a clierry-red velvet coat. Jean Cheriton
in black and gold arrived with Margaret
Honey, -who looked as fresh as a field flower.
Bertie Kelly, of course, was a notable male,
and music-lover Miss. Kate Egan was another
listener. Mrs. Horace Sheller, her attractive
figure a nocturne in black and silver, was
the songstress of the night and sang with
equal fluency in three tongues. The piano
under Mary Charlton’s fingers and Harry
Klass’s violin were charming to the ear.
AYhen a Levitzki or a Hambourg is play-
ing to an outsize audience, does he ever
think how much of the appreciation of his
listeners is due to the year-iii-year-out work
of the music clubs and societies? One of the
persistent sowers of the seeds of harmony
is Mrs. E. H.
Davies, the
subject of this
May Mooro
picture. Slit 1
was one of the
first members
of the Rose
Bay Music
Club; with
her sou Lloyd,
of the Con.
teaching staff,
she was in-
strumental in
forming the
Manly Music
Club, is a
member of its
executive com-
mittee and one
of its most
popular hos-
tesses. Mrs.
Davies is a
talented pianist, and gave son Lloyd his first
lessons on that instrument; later he made
his violin his career. She is a niece of
J. J. Ryall, a well-known musician of former
times.
Molly Vicars, daughter of Robert Vicars,
of tweed renown, was the important bride of
Beecroft last Wednesday. She was married
in the local Scotchbyterian kirk, which had
been turned into a bit of the Garden of
Eden by Searls. After she and G. HV Jeffrey,
of Adelaide, had been made one, the guests
foregathered at Yallambi, the Robert Vicars
home, where the cake was duly cut in,a mar-
quee that was a riot of autumn tonings.
Honeymoon in the United States.
A fair engaged of the week is Edna Carr,
daughter of the R. P. Carrs, of Lindfield-
The ring-provider is John Merrillees, whose
father is Dr. Merrillees, of Roma (Q.).
Half Sydney will be sorry to hear that
Jean Cheriton, the good-looking young school-
ma’am of Doone, is in hospital. Lewisham
is to harbor her for the next week or two.
Evening musical parties are not likely to
become a vogue during the winter weather.
Silken legs are apt to grow as cold as charity
travelling to the reaches of the aristocratic
suburbs, to return home in the same state
of numbness if there isn’t a dash of hot coffee
to revive circulation. The afternoon musical
hostessed by Mrs. Vivers and Mrs. Penfold
Hyland for the Industrial Blind Institute
reached high-water mark as far as art and
hospitality were concerned. The ticKets were
expensive, but the grounds and terraces of
Toft Monks were sheer delight in the after-
noon sunshine, and the subsequent tea pro-
vided by the hostesses was , replete with
cream-gorged meringues, savories and sweet
stuffs of a highly fattening but toothsome
nature.
The two striking features of David Jones’s
93rd birthday party* were the enormous pink
and white cake, set about with fat candles
that towered in glittering tiers nearly to
the ceiling, and the gusto with which the
youngest apprentices sang (as they whirled)
such favorites of their mothers, and maybe
grandmothers, as “After the Ball” and “Daisy.”
It would have been a blow to the jazz com-
poser who insists that youth of to-day demands
the barbaric or the physiological complex in
dance music to see how avidly the kids
caught up and danced to refrains popular
before many of them were born. There were
over 1900 dancers, and the excitement and
gaiety bubbled up to an effervescence even
higher than the decorative cardboard cake,
and must have been stimulating to the guests
at the directors’ table. Here sat the Charlie
Lloyd Jones couple, perhaps seeing in imagi-
nation a future birthday of the firm when
baby David would preside. The Clarence
Edwards and Ross Notts were others at the
big board, and a brace of Mrs. Jones’s bache-
lor brothers.
Donne Waldron (Mrs. Wallace Arnott)
is still enjoying her return to the stage, and
was excellent in the production of Loyal-
ties.” Her proud husband told this Letter
the other day of her former stage successes
in “Sure Fire” “The Night Hawk,
“Dracula” and “The Spider.” After such
spine-freezers, “Loyalties ’ , ml i?t
appeared quite a mild brew to the you g
actress.
From Bananaland: —
Dorothy Brunton, of the tumbled curls and the
sweet voice, has been drawing full houses to His
Majesty’s. .
Mayor Greene faced the journalists in bulk when
the Queensland Press Institute gave him a lunch
at the Gresham. He mentioned that he did not
regard himself as having been elected to carry out
any particular political plan, and added that divisions
created by party politics are no help to the progress
of any undertaking. Mrs. W. Young, vice-president,
received the guests, and presented the Mayoress with
a posy of red roses in a gold lace holder. Mrs.
Greene wore brown crepe de Chine, with touches
of vellum, and a broad-brimmed brpwn-and-vellum
hat. Mrs. Young was in black georgette and crfipe
de Chine, with soutache of white, and black hat.
At St. John’s Cathedral, Robert A. Spink married
Adelaide Richards. The bride, who was given away
by her father, was in ivory satin; her veil had a
coronet of orange blossoms, and she carried arum-
lilies and chrysanthemums. Doreen McNeil, Thelma
Robson, Elizabeth Lindsay and Edna Keeble were
bridesmaids in shaded pink mariette, and Edna
Richards was trainbearer in mauve mariette. The
reception was at the Kurilpa Hall, and the honey-
moon is at Tambourine Mountain.
In the Lyceum Club Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart and
the executive of the National Council of Women
entertained Helen Hill and Gertrude Clipsham,
delegates to the recent conference in Vienna. Crotons
and roses decorated. Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart was in
rose-pink velvet; Helen Hill chose black lace;
Gertrude Clipsham was in black mariette and lace.
Addresses were given by both guests. • ' . '
The Presbyterian Assembly of Queensland returned
to the Government £l2OO received to aid aerial and
medical services in far parts of the State.
refund is described as “a matter of conscience,’ as
the money came from the Golden Casket lottery.
St Benedict’s, East Brisbane, saw the wedding of
Joseph Skene and Miss N. M. H. Taylor. Ivory satin,
with a veil of Brussels net, was wom by the bride.
Who was given away by her father.- Ivy Taylor and
Mattie Irwin ’maided in pink. Mowbray-terrace saw
the feasting, the bride’s mother receiving in black
and mastic. . , ’
At Longreach Sir John Goodwin went to a tennis
dance with Lady Goodwin. He presented the minia-
ture shields' donated by R. H. Eldkins to successful
members of the •Longreach team, and visited the
hospitals and ambulance centre before leaving for
Winton.
Archie Day and Jack Ellis gave a recital for two
pianos in the Albert Hall, the Mayor and Mayoress
attending. Nancy Muirhead, Nancy White and Fred
Homer were the singers. The pianists played Rach-
maninoff, Chopin and Percy Grainger pieces.
Tasmania’s P.S.: —
The Tas. Museum has a notable addition in the
recently-unveiled group of statuary hy E. J. Dicks, of
Melbourne, with background painted by D. Colbron
Pearse. The exhibit -is a gift to the Royal Society
by Mr. John Arnold, who, although never occupying
a Tim pi it job on the Museum staff, was nevertheless
the right hand -of the curators for 47 years. The
group shows a native with his wife and piccaninnies,
cooking their primitive meal. It takes up one end
of the large room on the' right of the main entrance;
the handsome case containing it was designed hy the
curator, Clive Lord.
The Commem. Ball this year was held at the
Imperial, where the big ballroom was crowded.
Marcus Trappe’s orchestra made attractive music,
and red and gold chrysanthemums blazed everywhere.
The T. J. Burburys, of Park Farm, Jericho, had a
number of friends to celebrate their golden wedding,
47 years of the 50 having been spent in the same
home.
Water-colors predominated at the Launceston s Art
Society’s exhibition in King’s Hall. L. Dechaineux
went up from .Hobart to adjudicate. Among the
most successful exhibitors, were Mrs. Reed-Bell, Miss
Evershed, Stanley Fuller, Geoffrey Tyson, Mrs. Laura
Dean, Mrs. A. W. Hobbs, R, Isherwood, H. S. East,
F. Styant Browne and Ethel Greig.
The Alliance Frangaise held its annual reunion and
prize-giving at the Lyceum Club. Mrs. Henry Dobson
(president) presented the prizes, which were her
own gifts, chosen by the society in Paris. Music fol-
lowed the formalities, J. Scott-Power and his
daughter, the Alliance Frangaise orchestra, Freda
Elliott and Pearl Barron contributing. Supper, the
Marseillaise and the National Anthem wound up
proceedings.
A committee of Hobart girls is putting in good
work in aid of the Free Kindergartens, which are
feeling the pinch of the times. Nancy Grant is
president; Brenda Walch and Alison Page are the
hon. secs. Another committee has been formed by
Molly Eady and Alison Gray to give free dinners
during the winter to unemployed boys and girls.
A committee from St. David’s and All Saints
branches of St. John’s Association, with Mrs. K. A.
Robertson and Mrs. O. E. Walter as hon. secs., lan
a bridge party at the Imperial, Fifty tables were
occupied; the proceeds go to the new church hospi-
tal fund.
Mrs. Wordsworth, formerly Margaret Ross-Rey-
nolds, comes back from India on a visit to her
parents, with a grandchild to show them.
Lieut.-Commander Paul Hirst, who lias resigned
from the R.A.N., has settled down at St. Helen’s
with his wife and baby daughter, and will try his
hand at a land job. Mrs. Hirst was Madge Parker,
daughter of Mrs. Mary Parker, 0.8. E.


fMmmwmiWM
®:!®«a?S:'S®SSS!S»K'::HSsSSSS
-
tyffiyw-
'
’yyyyyyyyyyA^'.^-yyyyyyyyyyy.-yyyyyyyy^yyyy.iyyyyyyyyyy.-.-yyy.-y-y-yy.
W&msgmmk
W&B&Wsßgmszm
MP
■
m^m
j 3
■
lipiw
wti
iff.
m
wmmm
SSiSS
m
Wmp&m
5f4» ffiKVSZ&Zt
mmmm
Wmmm
4
■
m
. ’■ R
Will
- ■■
■fifw&fy s
ffyffiiiKf
mmk
S!
i -■ '
iliiil
V
1
■
fs m
& -m
W&
1
Hill
VffVff
■
iliii
The sturdy Australian tyre with deep
moulded triangle tread that combines
good looks with long service. Gives great-
est number of miles per pound of rubber.
31.601
U
E


Chemist Tells Recipe for
Family Cough Remedy.
HELP PEOPLE SAVE MONEY.
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading chemist,
that will enable people to make the best
family cough remedy, and at the same time
save much money. Everybody knows that a
good cough and influenza remedy consists of
two main sections:
The first section is the undiluted medicinal
ingredients; and the second is, of course, the
necessary water and sweetening. The prepara-
tion of the medicinal ingredients requires
trained knowledge, but the water and
sweetening can be added in the home just as
easily as in the pharmacy. And you save a
lot of money by doing so. Now, prove these
facts by trying this HEENZO recipe: Into
a jug put four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three
of either treacle or honey, two of vinegar,
and a large breakfast-cupful of warm water.
Stir till dissolved, and when the syrup is
quite cold pour into a large bottle, and
then add a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO,'obtained from your chemist or
store. By doing this you will have a family
supply equal in quantity and superior in
quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of
the best ready-mixed cough remedy that, if
purchased in the usual way, would cost up to
£l. An outstanding feature about HEENZO
is the fact that it is a safe remedy for
babies as well as adults, and over 12,000
people have written letters proclaiming it
the best remedy they have ever used for
quickly banishing coughs, colds, croup, bron-
chitis and influenza.*
SIR ROBERT GIBSON QUALIFIES HIS
BROADCAST ASSURANCE TO THE COMMON-
WEALTH SAVINGS BANK DEPOSITORS IN
A LETTER TO “THE BARRIER MINER.”
LET INFLATIONISTS TAKE WARNING.
READ IT IN LAST SATURDAY’S “BARRIER
MINER,” THE GREAT CENTRAL AUS-
TRALIAN DAILY NEWSPAPER, PUBLISHED
AT BROKEN HILL.
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE LOVE RACE.
T C. WILLIAMSON, LT Dm
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE MIKADO
■TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
X Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
OVERSEAS CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
Melbourne
Chatter:
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
Phons Control 800 far[?]
Bucley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Though the sun shone brightly the tem-
perature on Saturday called for furs, and
many very lovely coats were worn by those
who tried their luck in picking winners at
Moonee Valley. The course, with its acres
of well-trimmed lawns and many flower-beds,
looked as charming as ever despite winter.
Mayoress Luxton and her friend Mrs. U. J.
Nicholas headed the wearers of beautiful
furs, and Mrs. Murray Heffernan, of Sydney,
sported a regal-looking kolinsky. The
Chauvel lady chose an ensemble of fawn
cloth and crgpe de Chine with felt hat in a
mottled flame effect. Mrs. J. Forbes Mac-
kenzie had the modish touch of turquoise
upon her black gown. Dark-brown tailored
suits with fur collars and cuffs were favored
by Mrs. Albion Walkley, Mrs. P. Glass, Mrs.
Ben Chaffey and many others. Mrs. T. J.
Ryan, who was with Mrs. Westhoven, wore a
short black velvet coat over her black cloth
gown. Madame Kroef was a study in Lido
blue and grey fur. Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson
and Kathleen, Mrs. J. B. McArthur, Mrs.
A. R. Lempriere, the Lauchlan Mackinnons
and Mrs. E. H. Pearce were others who
enjoyed the air of the Valley.
Lady Somers has added a real boomerang
to her collection of parting gifts, the abo.
weapon accompanying a presentation posy at
the “Big Business” dance at the Town Hall,
profits of which went to the Homoeopathic
Hospital. B. A. Kimber handed over the
souvenir and expressed the hope that the
recipient would emulate the gift and return
some day. Her Ex.’s black chiffon draperies
were allied to a bridge coat of silver and
marine-blue tissue. Accompanying the v.-r.
pair, who looked in at the “Youth and Laugh-
ter” revue at the Playhouse on their way,
were Captain and Mrs. R. T. A. McDonald,
Captain and Miss Speir and Flight-Lieut.
Denny. Mrs. D. Carnegie was there in black
lace, and Mrs. H'. S. K. Ward’s gown of
old-gold velvet had a touch of sparkle. Miss
M. Smiley was in clouds of flame-colored
chiffon, and Mrs. Kimber chose reseda-green.
Fitzroy City Council gave a dance at its
Town Hall to supplement its £lOO donation
to the fund for the blind. Mayor Rosen,
who was chairman of the organising com-
mittee, was present with Mrs. Rosen, who
mingled sapphire-blue lace and velvet in her
gown, and Miss R. Rosen, who was in
forget-me-not-blue satin.
At Camberwell Town Hall some of the
younger helpers of the Alfred Hospital gave
a dance in aid of the institution. At the
head of the organisers was Vera McGann,
who danced in coral-pink chiffon. Mayoress
Witt, of Camberwell, was there in corn-
flower-blue georgette. .
The Tramway Ball was engineered by a
committee of which R. A. Spencer was
president and J. R. Love and R. T. Gilbert
were hon. secs. Mrs. Spencer danced in black
georgette, and Mrs. Gilbert sported pale
yellow moire. Profits went to help the can-
didature of the “Tramway Queen,” Myra
Marsh, in the competition conducted in con-
nection with the appeal for funds for the
blind.
The W. Mortills gave a dance at their
home, Tay Creggan, Hawthorn, at the week-
end. The house was gay with flowers, and
fires blazed in reception-room and ballroom, for
the night was cold. The guests were of many
nationalities. The hostess, Russian by birth,
was in fluffy white net showered with rhine-
stones and crystal. Madame Hesseleva and
a male quartette made vocal music, and
there were some exhibition dances by Mr.
Broad and Mrs. Mortill.
The Overseas League invited Lord and
Lady Somers to a farewell luncheon at the
Windsor, where the principal speaker was
Lud Mayor Luxton. Red, white and blue
flowers figured in the table decorations, and
the party was informal and cheery. Lady
Somers was in soft brown kasha, furs alid
felt millinery; and Mrs. Luxton sported a
black tailored suit and black millinery.
A children’s gymkhana was run at Frank-
ston for the Orthopaedic branch of the Child-
ren’s Hospital by Mary Bright. The com-
petitors, whose ages ranged from seven to
eighteen, were excellent riders and managed
theii 1 ponies very cleverly. A few showers
marred the enjoyment of the many specta-
tors. J. L. Byrne, Master of the Findon
Harriers, was judge, and Mrs. S. M. Bruce
handed over the prizes.
Mrs. J. W. Springthorpe, Commissioner
of Girl Guides of the Murrambeena district,
lent her home, Joyous Garde, for a fete
to provide the company with funds. Mrs.
F. W. Faulkner took charge of the bazaar
stalls, and the Dandenong Scouts’ band
made music. District Rangers, Guides and
Brownies joined in making the affair a suc-
cess. Dr. and Mrs. Springthorpe gave per-
sonal aid.
Mrs. Richard Linton gave a bridge party
at her home in aid of the St. Martin’s Boys’
Home. Sales of sweets and flowers swelled
the proceeds. Mrs. Linton’s sister, Mrs.
Murray Heffernan, of Sydney, lent aid.
She wore a gown of black satin, and the
hostess combined chenille-embossed georgette
in tones of pink and amber with dark sap-
phire-blue velvet. •
Rose Paterson lent her suite at Lochfoyne,
Toorak, two days last week for card parties
to help the Queen Victoria Hospital. Mrs.
George Crespin, Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot and
Kathleen Moore were the organisers.
There was a social gathering at the
A.W.N.L. club, when Mrs. Claude Couchman,
president of the League, and the Weed on
lady, president of the club, were hostesses.
Iris Shaw, Miss Nasson and Carrie Cairn-
duff entertained the assemblage with verse
and music. A silver lorgnette, the gift of
country delegates, was handed to Mrs. Couch-
man.
The Links of Empire Society put on. a
brew of tea at the Lyceum Club, and bade
its president, Lady Somers, farewell. The
Vic. branch of the society,, which encour-
ages correspondence between folk in various
parts of the Empire, was established at the
suggestion of Lady Apsley in 1926. Dons
Moore is the hon. sec.
Cowes, Phillip Island, had a wedding the
other day that linked the offspring of civic
fathers. The bride, who wore parchment-
tinted velvet, was Lucy, elder daughter of
Councillor and Mrs. W. E. Thompson, and
the bridegroom was Albert, elder son of
Councillor and Mrs. A. K. T. Sambell, of
Trenavin Park. Three ’maids attended the
bride, in mushroom-pink chiffon frocks and
pale-green felt hats. St. John’s kirk was
crowded. The after-rejoicings took place at
the Isle of Wight Hotel.
The Y.W.C.A. is doing honor to Nina
Brentnall, who has come this way on fur-
lough from India, where she is stationed at
Trivandrum. For 10 years Miss Brentnall
has been working in the district between
Trivandrum and Cochin, but her acquaint-
ance with India and its women covers double
that period. Her work has won her the
Kaisar-i-Il‘ind medal. At a welcoming
dinner at headquarters, Iqdians, who came
in their national dress, were amongst the
guests of honor.
The Governor had his final ramble with
the Wallaby Club the other day, tramping
over 10 miles of rough country around
Mernda, where the lyre-bird makes her nest
in the fern gullies. Membership of the club
is confined to a limited number of Melbourne
professional men, including some medicoes.
Lord Somers and his two aides, like the
rest of the party, each took a bit to eat and
partook of the community billy-tea brewed in
someone’s private grounds.
In the revival of “The Mikado,” which
opened at the Royal on Saturday night, the
“three little maids from school” —Marie
Bremner, Mary H'otham and Nancy Horne —
appear in gorgeously embroidered kimonos,
and the ruby velvet coat of the Lord High
Executioner, all traced with gold stitchery,
wins covetous glances, for it would make a
marvellous evening coat. In the first-night
audience were Judge and Mrs. Williams,
whose daughter is in the chorus; General
Monash, Mrs. Dale, the Fred Bishops and
Mrs. Harry Emmerton and her grand-daugh-
ters Elaine and Hersey Brookes. The only
wraps on view were white fur coats, inter-
spersed here and there with black velvet and
a white collar.
Now is the time to buy woollen undies.
On Friday woollen two-in-one garments of a
quality usually costing 12s. to 15s. were
being sold at a city shop for ss. lid.
The knitted jumper suit so popular last
season for outdoor wear on any occasion is
now pushed back into its original setting—
the golf links or croquet green. Consequently
there has been a substantial slump in prices.
The Governor and Lady Somers have
planted eucalypti in the Botanic Gardens as
memorials of their stay, following the prac-
tice of other vice-regals.
Lady Somers has sold her Moth ’plane to
Cecil McKay, president of the Aero Club.
She flew several hundred miles in the
machine, including a trip from Alice Snrings
to Darwin. Lord Somers has presented his
light motor-car to Toe H’.
In the Y.A.L. revue, “Youth and Laugh-
ter,” at the Playhouse, a ballet of 10 shapely
young misses high-kicked from beneath volu-
minous lengthy skirts of sea-green chiffon.
Attired in
shorts and silk
shirts they de-
monstrated the
intricacies of
tap dancing.
The same girls
looked charm-
ing in long
white tnlle
evening gowns,
the skirts
opening in
front to give
play to stock-
ingless legs
and exhibit
white satin
breeches. Jack
Ricketts and
Vera Howe
composed the
music, and
Eric L. Morris
and Keith
Bean evolved the lyrics. Gaston Mervale
staged the show. Among the best sketches
were “Green Chartreuse,” a thriller, and
one presenting an amateur rehearsal of
“Hamlet.” Dora Warby sang operatic num-
bers. Out of this window looks Mary Sharp,
who with Madge Hume-Cook organised the
performances. Both were in the chorus. The
picture is by Ruskin.
Mrs. J. R. Hartpence, who as Jessie
Masson was a teacher of the pianoforte at
the Albert-street Con. and who now resides
in New York, is on her way back to Aus-
tralia with her husband. Many welcomes
are being arranged, and Mrs. Hartpenpe will
give a recital at the Auditorium.
Edna Walling, the landscape gardener who
had a hand in keeping the surroundings of
Coombe Cottage in order, is endeavorinsr to
raise funds to plant an avenue of silver
beeches at Mooroolbark station as a memorial
to Melba. With that end in view she
organised a dance in the local hall.
When Agnes Murphy, journalist and entre-
preneur, passed out in London, Aimee Moore,
her great chum, was left desolate. For some
years Miss Murphy was in very bad health,
but, thanks to the care and attention given
her by her pal, she was able to carry on her
work till nearly the end. The other day
Miss Moore returned to Melbourne. Lily
Murphy, sister of Agnes, came with her.
They have taken a flat at Dandenong-road,
Malvern.
Dr. Gwynneth Buchanan, the president,
launched the show of work by artists and
craftswomen of the Lyceum Club. Among
the painters represented are Mrs. Tweddle,
Clara Southern, E. Lakeland and Dora
Wilson. Esther Paterson shows a sketch
portrait of writer Myra Morris, and O.
Fricke pictures aniateui*-mummer Eric
Donald. Elsie Barlow, E. Syme, Aileen
Dent and Jessie Traill are other contribu-
tors. The crafts section this vear is much
larger than usual. Hand-woven rugs are
shown by Norah Gurdon. Mrs. Stuart
Murray’s woven linen scarf at once found
a buyer. Mrs. H. J. Francis displays some-
thing news in doorstops?—a Spanish galleon
in full sail. Dr. Younger Ross and Mary
Campbell have turned, their talents as tapes-
try-weavers to the making of fender-stools.
Lucy Bryce has worked a supper-cloth and
mats to match a china set —amber linen
with groups of mauve, red and yellow
flowers. Rona Blogg has secured a particu-
larly scrumptious glaze for her pieces of
pottery. Miss Dunn’s tooled leather articles,
Margaret Alston’s elaborate bookbinding,
and Agnes Patterson’s dainty miniatures also
deserve mention.
Mrs. I. H. Moss, a study in black and
white, gave the push-off to Mrs. Alice
Newell’s show of designs and color schemes
from the bush at the Athenaeum. Though
the artist, who is the wife of Colonel F. S.
Newell, hangs some water-color landscapes,
her decorative designs based on native flora
command most interest. The blue-gum deco-
rates polished wood screens, and the wild
banana passion vine with its fruit and flow-
ers makes adornment for curtains and
screens. Orchids and other delicate flowers
are traced in fanciful patterns for embroid-
ery, and appear upon painted brooches of
ivory. Boxes of beautiful Australian woods
serve to demonstrate the graceful shapes of
even the humblest of our native blossoms.
Col. Newell thanked Mrs. Moss for opening
the show. Among private viewers were Mrs.
M. B. Woolley, Mrs. Newell’s mother, Mrs.
Percy Blackbourn and s ßeryl Ainslie.
~ The man who throve on laughter is a
description that might fit Speaker Alexander
Peacock, though when he' assumes' his horse-
hair millinery and referees the State Parlia-
ment he can
be as solemn
as a manda-
rin. . He’ll be
70 next month,
and has a
record of 42
years of un-
broken Parlia-
mentary ser-
vice, but both
time and poli-
tics have
dealt kindly
with him, and
he can still
exercise the
good, hearty
chuckle that
is better than
an apple a
day. Born in
(Creswick, he
started his
career in the , „
Education Department, and entered Parlia-
ment in 1889 as member for Allandale. He
has been a Minister in 11 Governments and
thrice Premier. Edward the Seventh made
him a Knight Commander of St. Michael and
St. George in 1902. Lafayette made the
picture.
Dr. Georgina Sweet collected several people
to say good-bye to Jean Begg, of Maoriland,
who is on her way to India to take up the job
of associate national secretary of the
Y.W.C.A. Miss Begg, who has been organis-
ing secretary of the association in Auckland
for five years, has had experience in New
York' and Samoa.
Jean Daley and Muriel Heagney, of the
Labor Women’s Organising 'Committee, are
candidates for seats in the Senate. Miss
Heagney was a delegate recently to the
Women’s International Conference at Hono-
lulu. Miss Daley has contested the Koo-
yong seat in the Reps.
News comes from London that Lance
Hardy, a student of the Uni. Con. under
A E. H. Nicksou, who graduated as
Mus. Bac. two years ago, has qualified for a
Fellowship of the Royal College of Organists.
Melbourne pianist Edward Cahill, who for
17 years toured the drawing-rooms of Europe
with his melodious cobber George Brooke,
will shortly publish his memoirs. They will
include reminiscences of numerous crowned
heads; some of them uncrowned at the
moment. The book will be dedicated to
Cahill’s partner, whose death broke up a
notable musical alliance.
Joan and Betty Rayner, of the T.0.Y.,
having returned from Adelaide, are perform-
ing for a week at Scots’ Hall before leaving
for Maoriland en route for the U.S.A.
Mrs. Norman Falkiner welcomed back
from Europe during the week her daughter
Elizabeth, who has been at school in Paris.
‘ The Yarra Glen and Lilydale Hunt Club
was the last of this State’s quartette to
take to the field. Its opening run was over
the paddocks about Coldstream.
Adelaide’s doings:—
Clothes for the Outback Relief movement are filling
the rooms at the old “Register” ofiice, where willing
hands sort and pack the parcels for sending away.
The Mayoress (Mrs. C. R. J. Glover) is appealing
for clothes for the little ones in the city and several
money-raisers are being arranged. Mesdames Douglas
Neill and Travers Heath arranged a large bridge
party at the residence of their parents, The Avenue,
Mediddie. Everyone was asked to bring some little
garment of wool and the result was splendid. So
many tables were booked that not only the reception
rooms but a large room upstairs were crowded.
Dr. H. B. Devine, of Melbourne, who is visiting
Adelaide, was entertained at dinner at the Oriental
Hotel by the Medical Association. Henry Newland
and a dozen other prominent doctors were present.
The recent dance and bridge held in the Norwood
Town Hall to raise funds for the East Torrens branch
of the Mothers and Babies’ Health Association
resulted in £B6 18s. 3d. In aid of the same charity
Kerwin Maegraith and his Eight Vagabonds, with
George Horton as producer, will give two perform-
ances at Australia Hall this month.
Debutantes are still being launched. On Wednesday
night the J. H. Gosses gave a young people’s dance
for their niece, Nan Gosse, at their home in Park-
terrace, Parkside. Nan Maclennan was another debu-
tante. The house was a mass of beautiful flowers.
There was quite a gathering of 1931 debs., including
Pattie Smeaton, Zell Goodman, Barbara Tweedie,
Alison Milne, Betty Bruce, Mary Lisle Johnson, Mar-
jorie Hawker, Victoria Edmunds and Katherine
Rymill. Nan Gosse wore white georgette, and Nan
Maclennan chose a soft pink ninon. Mr. and Mrs.
T. E. Barr Smith were among the onlookers.
Miss Eileen Reed, lecturer in charge of the botany
department at the Westralian Uni., arrived from
Perth this week; her marriage to Dr. Maurice B.
Johnson takes place on Thursday.
Westralia joins in :
Muriel Crabtree, Melbourne Uni. M.Sc., arrived by
air to take up her new job in the bio-chemistry lab.
of the Perth Hospital. Doris Anderson, who has been
filling the position, has six months’ leave of absence
for a trip to the Cold Country.
School holidays were arranged to fit in with the
Baden-Powells’ visit Scouts and Guides have just
concluded a week’s orgy of bare knees, uniforms and
high ideals. Fine weather blessed the rally at
Brennan Park, where displays of construction work,
signalling, the rigging of a yacht by blindfolded Sea
Scouts, the making of awards of merit and various
addresses entertained a big roll-up. A visit to Fair-
bridge Farm School was wedged between social func-
tions.
At the Guides’ at-home in the Y.A.L. Hall, acting
president Lady James welcomed the principal guest,
divisional commissioner Mrs. R. T. Robinson and
secretary Ruth MeWhae assisting. Lady Baden-
Powell’s fine speech was an inspiration to her
devotees. Another welcome to the Chief Guide was
the Karrakatta Club’s afternoon, with president Mrs.
Mervyn Griffth and a group of mesdames as hostesses.
Among the speeches.was a reminder that W.A. was
the pioneer State in the Guide movement.
Spike heels twinkling brilliants among fluttery
draperies and nuggety brogues with black cashmere
hose walked up the v.-r. steps together for his Ex.’s
reception to the Baden-Powells. The evening’s prin-
cipal people stood upon the dais and were approached
by a red-carpeted pathway. Miss Campion’s champagne
laces were worn over shell-pink; the James lady
chose black and royal blue with a silver scarf, a
gold cross and a violet ribbon looking important
upon her. corsage; Mrs. Lovegrove and Mrs. Alfred
Sandover were in black; Mrs. Gordon James was a
pale pink souffle ; Mrs. Wilfrid Campion favored royal
blue laces. Mrs. R. T. Robinson, Mrs. Kirke Godfrey,
Judy James and Mrs. Church stuck to their tunics
and cocked hats.
Victoria-square ex-students rolled back the years
and danced merrily at their annual reunion frolic.
Kathleen O’Brien wore mignonette taffetas; Trixie
Fienberg’s cowslip-yellow frock was of moire; Pat
Hanna’s pinky rig included a little hip coat; Doreen
Rampant and Doris Penson favored ivory satin;
gumtip-green veined with gold was Kathleen Coronel’s
choice; green predominated in Muriel Jacobs’s floral
gown; black laces fluttered about Miss P. Smith and
a dash of red enlivened Rene Esler’s pastel tints.
Mr. and Mrs. Craven Griffiths gave a dance to
celebrate the 21st birthday of daughter Mabel.
Lavender satin embroidered with a fantastic bird was
Mabel’s choice; her sister wore ivory with a spray
of scarlet flowers and her mother clad herself in
royal-blue laces. Following supper were toasts and
congratulations for Cecil Hallett Sweeting, whose
intention is marriage with the party’s most important
person. Trixie Malloch, Ethel Diamond, Deb Parker,
Jean Hemy, Helen Bostock and Jean Crommelin were
among the toe-twinklers.
Fortune favored the Hunt Club and sent sunshine
instead of rain and a nippy autumn breeze for the
opening meet. Viands were spread at the Belmont
hostelry. New president Jack Durack was among
the red-coated riders. His wife in a cedar-toned
ensemble and Mrs. D. D. Harris in black, fur-
collared and -cuffed, were among the onlookers. Mrs.
Theo Pelloe on her best pal, Guess Again, Edna and
Connie Smily, Sheila Hayes, Peggy Sundercombe, a
brace of McEncroe girls, Colonel Sweetapple, Frank
B-oan and A. E. Joyner were among the field.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. •• •• •• 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Legal Notices.
Re WILLIAM JAMES HEWITT Deceased.
DURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
* of the High Court of Justice dated the 19tli
day of January 1931 made in an Action in the
Matter of the Estate of William James Hewitt
deceased (late of No. 12 Trent Avenue Ealing in the
County of London who died on the 21st day of
September 1927) Hewitt and Portch v. Cairns (1930
H. 4538) whereby the following Inquiry was directed
namely: “An Inquiry whether Doris Chandler a
daughter of the above-named Testator William James
Hewitt is living or dead and if dead whether she
survived the Testator and if she survived him who
is now her legal personal representative.”
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said Inquiry are
on or before the 15th day of October 1931 to send
by post prepaid to Messrs. Greenwell & Co. Solicitors
of 4 Berners Street London W.l their full Christian
names and surnames addresses and descriptions and
full particulars of their claims or in default thereof
they will be excluded from the benefit of the said
Order unless the Court or Judge on application other-
wise orders. Claimants are to attend personally or
by their Solicitors before Master Keen at the
Chambers of the Judge Room No. 237 Royal Courts
of Justice Strand London on Thursday the 29th day
of October at 12.30 o’clock in the afternoon for
adjudicating upon the claims.
A claimant not residing in England or Wales must
send with particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in England or Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED this 21st day of April 1931.
PRETOR W. CHANDLER,
Master for Master Keen.
Note. —The above-named Testator William James
Hewitt was a retired officer in his Majesty’s Army
and was for many years stationed in India and
France. He died on the 21st of September 1927.
The said Doris Chandler was his only surviving
child and is said to have married William Hubert
Chandler at the Register Office Barnet Middlesex
on the 6th November 1923. It has been said that the
said William Hubert Chandler went to Australia
and that his wife followed him as a stewardess.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
A WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 524 of 1931.
BETWEEN CLARA DWYER Petitioner and HARRY
DWYER Respondent.
TO HARRY DWYER late of Sydney in the State
of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTCE that the said Clara Dwyer has
commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the twenty-first day of
August One thousand nine hundred and thirty-one and
in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
DATED this twenty-second day of May, 1931.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. F. DUDLEY,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
2b Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Missing Friends.
WILL WILLIAM THOMAS SPOONER,
who came to Australia from Canada
about 1864, or any of his descendants, please
write to his sister, Mrs. E. M. Spooner, c/o
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
CHOULD this meet the eye of Mr. J. R.
WOOLLETT, late of Queensland, will
he please communicate with M. 0., address
care of Bulletin Office, Adelaide Street,
Brisbane, in matter of something to his
benefit.
§portin§
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS.,
fHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES'6?
MONTESSORI
Method in
Child Education
17th
International Course
London, England, Sept., 1931.
Write for prospectus: —
The Secretary, Montessori Training
College, Rosslyn Hill, London, N.W.3,
England.
m
i
tiri jUJT
lEiHEJRMaML
JJIUIMMIEIR.
and
HAWAII, extend warm hands of
welcome to Australians in the
approaching winter.
Calling en route at Auckland and
Suva, the large modern Canadian-
Australasian liners have now com-
menced their Winter Excursions.
Special reductions; in rates bring this
holiday with its variety and charm
within reach of every vacationist.
Excursion Fares:
FIRST-CLASS RETURN £75
SECOND-CLASS RETURN . . £55
(No exchange.)
Sailings:
Niagara June 25
Aorangi July 23
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
ANAIDDAN
HO STKALAS DAN
Tourt/ie Pacific Islands
I Visit the Beautiful Solomons.
Lazy Days for Vacation Delights.
A happy, carefree cruise to an ideal holiday land!
For rest, for play, for thrilling new experiences. . . .
colorful native life and customs, quaint
tribal dances, gorgeous scenery and
flowers, coral lagoons.... outrigger
canoeing, morning dips in cool jade-
green waters. And always you return
from exotic delights to the palatial
modern comfort of the
S.S. MATARAM.
AVrite for Leaflet No. 52/S.
Burns, Philp & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, etc.
Ask for
the “B. P. Magazine,”
l/- per copy.
Wmmm
teSssSi
m
r s # -•
'At-::
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
ƒ
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 . .. £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
free pattern
every week
SHADOW SHOWS.
I Radio’s “Cimarron,” which was applauded
.in this column a month or so ago after a
pre-view, is now at Sydney State. In the
: words of the cinesound introducer, “its
majestic sweep and power illustrate the
enormous scope of the talking screen. A
tapestry of such magnitude could never be
encompassed within the confines of the
speaking stage.” True enough, yet there is
something grotesque about the picture.
Almost as if the producers were covertly
satirising American megalomania, and the
pride of the hustling nation’s Babbits in
their upstart cities. However, anyone who
likes melodrama acted by such fine artists
as Richard I fix, Estelle Taylor, George
I Stone and Roscoe Ates, and produced as if
I the spending of an extra million dollars
1 didn't” matter two hoots, should certainly
see this one.
In “Plunder,” at Sydney Plaza, the
Trdvers-Walls-Lynn combination has pro-
duced a talkie which is better in its line
than anything Hollywood has done. The
dialogue is all bright, and some of it is
masterly in its Wodehousian fatuity. Ralph
Lynn in collaboration with Tom Walls, a
professional crook, steals Mary Brough’s
jewels. It turns out later that the trucu-
lent old lady has swindled Winifred Sliotter
out of them and the ducal mansion in which
part of the action occurs, so ethics are satis-
fied. The comedy derive’s from the contrast
between the icy efficiency of the crook and
the incompetence of his monocled colleague.
The dialogist is perhaps at his best during
the examination at Scotland Yard. Over
and over again the detectives are on the
verge of trapping Lynn into an admission,
but are defeated by one of his asinine iri-e-
-levancies. It is a variant on the old busi-
ness of the drunk in the motor-car, now
being featured in “City Lights,” and much
funnier. Ralph Lynn is the star; as a
pantomimist lie approaches the Chaplin
class. But there is no flaw in the all-
, English cast, which includes the established
Aldwych Theatre favorites, plus Herbert
Waring as a Scotland Yard chief. The tim-
ing is so good that in spite of continuous
guffaws hardly a word is missed.
* * *
In Fox-Movietone’s “Body and Soul,” at
Sydney Regent, Humphrey Bogart marries
Elissa Landi just before he leaves for the
war. In London he falls for Myrna Loy
(as a mysterious siren known as Pompom),
and a while later gets killed. Pompom’s
letters are brought back by Charles Farrell
on his first leave. To his hotel comes the
widow, and before she can speak Farrell
accepts her as Pompom, and tells her of
Bogart’s love. There is an excuse for this
cumbrous beginning. It gives Miss Landi
a chance to portray her emotions on learn-
ing of the death and grasping the implica-
tions of the letters, and to show disillusion
turning to revulsion. She does it with great
art. Things moved swiftly in those days,
and in a night she is Farrell’s, “body and
soul.” The dramatist now has Pompom on
his hands. What is to be done about her?
Obviously make her a spy and have her
shot.
This is Elissa Landi’s first picture, and
it proves beyond a doubt that the screen
has discovered another actress. The pub-
licity-hounds catalogue her as “Exotic
Elissa,” but she' is nothing of the sort.
Naturalism is her line; she manages to be
herself. Farrell, Bogart, Miss Loy and the
others are adequate. The war shots are
largely incox-rect, but thex-e is a homely
touch of unconscious realism about the asin-
inity of the Intelligence Service.
* * *
Union Theatres pre-showed a couple of
disappointing British pictures last week.
“Old Soldiers Never Die” harks back to a
period that many recall with a touch of
shame, not to say nausea —the roaring, lying
days when the “Kitchener Armies” were
being recruited by means of Yankee pub-
licity devices. The jokes are less than
Bairnsfathei-, and turn on subjects as antique
as mxxd in Essex camps, the sar’-major,
wenches who love sojers, and the 0.0. who
gets a War Office wire ordering him and his
i-agtime command overseas instanter. The
wire is the most satisfactory feature of this
film, since it heralds the gladsome caption
“The End.”
“Uneasy Virtue” follows. Fay Compton
is uneasy because her husband deems her
“sti*aight as a die,” and so not worth worry-
ing about on points of jealousy. The scene
is a country house inhabited by the ampler
bourgeoisie. Aided by a guest, Miss Comp-
ton satisfies herself that her. husband’s
theories regarding her integrity are un-
founded. The plot, such as it is, concerns
the suspicions which are directed to one
female after another in relation to the deed
of shame enacted by Miss Compton in “the
South Room” during a bridge party. The
cast could hardly be bettered; it includes,
in addition to the charming stax\ Dodo
Watts, Edmund Breon and Hubert Ilax-ben,
an American who supplies a masterly pic-
ture of an American. On the other hand
the dialogue is wearisome in its amplitude
and studied naughtiness. People no doubt
had time to fire these elaboi-ately polished
observations at one another in colloquial
chat during the Oscar Wilde age, when road
traffic moved at a maximum of 10 m.p.h.,
and life’s tempo was proportionately deli-
berate in most other respects; but conver-
sationalists make it much snappier nowa-
days. Lonsdale and the fabricator of the
Walls-Lynn comedies are almost the only
dramatists now writing for the British
sci-een who seem to have grasped this truth.
* * *
“Cauboy”; Melbourne State has begun to
unwind the opening chapters of the first all-
talking serial, “The Indians Are Coming.”
The only use the characters make of their
tongues is to reveal their silly minds. The
vocal effects also slow up the action, and
action is the beginning and end of a good
serial. The first serial I ever saw in
the days of the silents was in Port
Said in 1914. I had stepped off a P. and
O. to have a look round. The story was
so horrible and sinister that physical force
had to be used to prevent me missiug the
boat, so that I could see what happened
next week to the girl who had been dragged
shrieking silently down the dungeon stairs
by the masked monk with the burning eyes.


KNOWN FOR -ITS REMARKABLE EFFICACY IN ALL
AFFECTIONS OF THE THROAT CHEST AND LUNGS
I
fir
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes carry the
endorsement of the medical profession,
and the confidence of the public through-
out the world. For over 40 years there has
been nothing better for all affections of the
throat, chest and lungs.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
•. Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd..
31 Bay Street, Sydney
m
m
m
am
A costly nuisance which is paid for in wasted petrol.
Have you ever considered how much more mileage you
get from a gallon of petrol when your engine is free
from carbon.
O
Carbo-Solve will positively remove carbon deposits.
£ 10,000,000 of resources hack Alemite Corporation’s
positive guarantee that Carbo-Solve will free your engine
from carbon. Full particulars sent on request.
ALEMITE CORPORATION - Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd. . ... . 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd . . Brisbane ’
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd. . . , . ' . 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. MACHIN &CO (Pty), Ltd. . . 535 Elizabeth' Street, Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED . . . '. 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide .
K-AUST-
As WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A London photographer has got an idea
which should be worth a huge fortune. He
noticed that when lie got a lady sitter with
a pair of small and elegant feet she gener-
ally liked to place herself so that her fairy-
like supports were just visible; while the
lady with the large, mis-shapen hoofs and
the bulky hoof-cases kept her feet _ out of
.sight every time. From this he inferred
that 'the latter person would much prefer
to have two small and lovable trotters
also, and if she had them she would want
to display them; and then he conceived the
inspiration of keeping feet on hand, and sup-
plying them to customers who needed them.
He has a dozen pairs of them—small wooden
feet with adorable boots on them, and
attached to each of them is about eight
inches of attractive leg clothed in neat
stockings, and with a hook about half-way
up. The lady with the generous extremi-
ties is planted in a chair with her massive
limbs and copious boots hidden as far back
as they can go without dislocating her knees,
and then the artificial legs are carefully
booked on to the inner hem of her dress.
.Consequently she looks like a person reclin-
ing - in an easy attitude, with her beautiful
feet exposed by accident, and if. she can
stand the strain —which is something awful
—the resulting photo is a beautiful thing
to look at. If she can’t stand the strain
A LACK OF PRESSURE.
HIS FRIEND: “And so she refused you. Never mind, old
boy, try again; -perhaps you didn’t press her hard
enough.”
THE REJECTED: “Press her hard enough — why, she wouldn’t
let me get near her.” [l2/7/'90.]
her real feet come forward just in time to
keep the unnatural attitude from wrenching
her profuse joints asunder, and then she
appears in the negative as a quadruped.
Sometimes her limbs have to be tied back
with ropes to keep her steady, and her smile
is the happy smile of one who sits on a
hot stove. Still the artificial feet get there
every time.
A yarn is current concerning a popular
pressman (now in N.Q.) who, when he was
in Melbourne, used often to.be sent by his
paper to sassiety kick-ups—mayoral and
Masonic balls, functions at Government
House, and the like. He could always com-
mand two or three ladies’ tickets. It was
his wont, previous to these occasions, to
wait upon a certain Hebrew financier, and,
after inquiring after his
health and that of the
family, he would ask if he
might be permitted to have
the pleasure of taking
Miss Financier to the ball,
promising to introduce her
all round, and so . on. It
worked like a charm
always. He would take
Miss F. and introduce her
right and left. Next day
he would call on old F. at
his office, and, after the
usual small-talk inquiries,
would suddenly • snap in
with “Oh, by the bye, I
want you to discount a
little bill for me.” And
Mr. F. would —-did it often,
in fact, till the pressman
one day suddenly left for
his present location. Which
is remindful of Marcus
Clarke’s retort to Aaron
Waxman when that gentle-
man once reproachfully
said, with the air of a
man having a grievance,
“You never pay me, and I
shtill lend you my monish;
but I also treat you as a
friendt. Did I not invite
you to mein private
house?” “Well?” groaned
Marcus, also with the air
of a man having a griev-
ance ; “well, and didn’t 1
go?” _____
Science is great, and of
invention there is no end.
The latest thing is a
scheme for applying otto
of roses and other scents, not in the
old, mean, degraded, underhand way by
sprinkling; the handkerchief or the dress,
but by injecting a drop of the essence into
the veins of the arm with the hypodermic
syringe, and thus scenting the lady herself in
place of her clothes, as heretofore. The con-
ception is a great one, and the man who
struck it will be remembered by posterity,
along with the . giant intellect that , first dis-
covered victuals, and the public benefactor
who found out clothes, and the genius who
patented the original methods of coming out
of the wet, and the stupendous soul who
invented sleep—before* that blessing was
corrupted and undermined by the villainy of
the bloated hypocrite and illiterate apostate
who invented early rising, and the still more
stupendous soul who first thought of think-
ing about anything at all. And just here an
idea strikes me. When the evening dress gets
a very little shorter than it is now it might
be as well to inject it into the arm along
with the scent. It is just possible that
clothes might *be a trifle more apparent that
way than when worn in the present super-
ficial fashion. [l5/6/’9o.]
Henry Irving made £20,000 clear profit
during his recent trip to the States.
[26/5/’BB.]
They show a curious relic up at Jungle
Downs, and we won’t insult the reader’s
geographical knowledge by specifying where
that station is. The relic is a door-scraper
an article so called because no one on
earth ever thought of scraping a door with
one; but let that pass. This scraper is
pridefully pointed out to visitors as con-
sisting of a human lower-jaw, and thereby
hangs a tale. Old Poley was once overseer
at Jungle Downs, and his particular fad was
physic. His travelling menagerie not only
included several fully-stocked medicine-
chests, but three or four complete cases of
surgical instruments, anaesthetic inhalers,
dentists’ materials, and all sorts of medical
books, besides a valuable collection of news-
paper recipes for all the diseases either
possessed or coveted by humanity. Poley’s
black boy, Toby, fell ill, and all the resources
of the medicine-chest failed to effect a cure.
So Poley held a consultation with his stock-
man, in strict accordance with medical
etiquette, and at the end of a learned rum-
maging of authorities the amateur physi-
cians solemnly came to the conclusion that
Toby must be “examined.” Stethoscopes,
laryngoscopes, speculums and so on were
brought into play, and the examining
duo came to the conclusion that Toby’s
particular and specific disease was angina
pectoris, for which, in an American
clipping, Poley had preserved the men-
tion of a certain cure —to wit, nitro-gly-
cerine. The American humorist who had
given the world the. benefit of this medical
saviour had merely said that “it has never,
been known to fail,” but he forgot to men-
tion the dose. “An ounce won’t hurt him,”
said Poley. while the stockman was for
rushing Toby with “ ’arf a pound.” How-
ever, they compromised on “two plugs,”
which they jambed into Toby’s mouth, when
whor-r-r-r-r, bang! Tobv joined the.
angels without further farewell, departing
promiscuously in atoms for various spheres,
his only legacy being his jaw, which was
found driven into a verandah-joist, teeth
uppermost, in which position it has done
serviceable duty every since. Poley escaped
with a lump as big as an emu’s egg on his
forehead, while the stockman levanted with
fright, but unhurt. Poley has since sent in
his claim to the Medical Board to be regis-
tered as a legally-qualified medical prac-
titioner. He says that since he has made
a funeral. of Ins first patient he feels that
he is on a par with most Australian medical
men. [B/d/90.] x .i.. 'i
- , .
At the ballet. Little /girl (fearfully) :
“Mamma, when are the Indians coming on /
Mother: “Hush, dear; there are no Indians.
Little girl: “Then who scalped all the men
in the front seats?” [1890.]
About two years ago,'in a N.S.W. town
where two rivers meet, a man could be
seen in various stages of sobriety and ebriety
nearly every day. He was a plasterer, and
carried his sign in the shape of a trowel
and some white spots on his face* and
clothes. No mistake, lie was a tradesman, as
his work showed, and he could tell his own
work blindfold simply by the feel of it.
One morning he awoke and could not tell
for the life of him where he had-gone to
bed, as he generally couched in empty build-
ings when drunk and, hard-up, and in a
pub when, drunk and flush. . So_this._is_.what
he thought; “Ah! in a room, at-any rate.
Too dark to tell yet. I’ve fallen out of'bed
and dragged the r blankets with me// I’ll feel
the wall. My own work. I’m/ alp right,
Daylight’s coming. Doosid small windows
and high up. Can’t remember this room,
but it’s my. plastering. So'-help me, never !
The new lock-up, and I’m the first prisoner!”
A SONG.
The sun may shine, the rain may fall,
And the world roll round about;
The king’s men and king’s horses all
Can never rub one thing out.
Skies may darken, clouds will flit,
Troubles may gather and go;
For my sweetheart loves me “just a bit!”
And, oh ! I love her so!
The vapor vanishes in the sun:
So pass cures, doubts and pains—
For I’m “loved a bit” by the dearest one,
And the best the world contains.
THE BREAKER.
A GOOD TEAM.
They were discussing the liorsc-power of
various well-known bullock-teams in a
pub beyond Mossyface, and I hung over
some refreshment and listened whilst the
coachdriver doctored his broken brake. A
tall, spare young man, the color of old bronze
with protruding knees and the gravity of
a moulting mopoke, had taken up the theme,
and held the floor.
“ ’Tain’t no good a man tellin’lialf o’ what
he knows about cattle,” he said, “ ’cos he
don’t gain nothin’ by it but the reputa-
tion of bein’ a jumped-up liar. That’s my
experience. But I’m goin’ to tell you one
little thing that’s worth knowin’, bein’ able
to prove it. Know that load o’ galvanised-
iron an’ things I took to Swift Creek lars’
month? Had ten ton up, an’ slush to tbe
hub right through. Well, I was crossin’ the
creek a few miles the other side' Cassilis
when I got bogged. Had Bolliver an’ Briton
leadin’ an’ Black Gin and Clipper in the
pole, ten others beside. S’pose yer don t
deny my team can haul? Well, this burst
they jest laid right down to it, an’ pulled till
you’d ha’ thought they’d yank the crimson
'world all skew whiff. I stirred ’em up all
1 knew, an’ yelled like a maniac. It’s bad
business gettin’ stuck in that bit o’ creek.
Presently I saw ’er cornin’, ah’ I jest knocked
hatfuls of hair off . o’ them raw hides, an
near bust uieself cursin’. They brought, her
along beautiful fer about fifty yards, an
then I let up an’ called spcllo. But when
I turned round to take bearin’s, strike me
blind if there wasn’t that blankety blank
waggon right there, jambed in the middle ot
tne gory creek. We hadn’t budged her a
hinch. I was knocked silly, right off me
sanguinary chump. Could ha’ bet me life
we’d shifted the load a whole heap, an’ yet
there it was in the same ole shop, an’ the
polers with their heels still in the water.
Well, I had another clig. at it. Them red
’uns of mine took a grip, and lifted with a
long, low heave that must ha’ fetched this
universe if somethin’ else hadn’t come. They
was bringin’ her up agin beautiful, an’ I
danced alongside fer a hundred yards or so,
an’ called on ’em till I was blue in the face.
Then we stood off agen an’ took breath.
Now, you can boil me whole if that gory
concern wasn’t stuck fast in the same spot—
she hadn’t budged outer the creek half er
foot. You know me, I’m tough, but that
thing made my hair stick up stiff, an’ I fell
a-tremblin’ like a kid. Anyhow, 1 had
another buck in at it after a while. I near
peeled those cattle, an’ I howled the
outer me throat afore I got ’em stirrm
agen. But by-’em-bye aiong she comes-,
beautiful, altogether, slow and sure. Then I
up an’ spotted what was happenin’, bure s
death we was towin’ that blanky creek along.
We’d pulled it a hundred and sixty-five
yards right out uv its course.”
The bullocky mopped his brow on ms shirt-
sleeve, reached for his beer and finished it
at a gulp, and then concluded:
“Had to unload an’ dig me waggon out.
Ask up at Cassilis if the creek ain’t gone
off its course ’bout seven mile back.”
SILAS SNELL.


#
Q
it
IP
Don’t set your
mind...set Big Ben
T3IG BEN’S cheery call tells
■U you exactly when to get up,
relieves your mind of all worry
about wakening on time. You
can relax completely ... rest up
to the very last minute; no
danger of oversleeping.
You are absolutely sure of
getting satisfactory service, real
and lasting value when you buy
Big Ben.
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
BROWN &DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
Melbourne :: Sydney :: Perth :: Brisbane
105
There are numerous
Westclox. ..dependable alarms
in nickel and beautiful colors
... pocket watches, auto
clocks. Plain and luminous
dials. Prices, 9/6 t 0 26/6
10
tk
K
m
&
$m
“ I wouldn’t miss
this night cap for
worlds... Me Gillums
certainly puts me right
till the morning! ”
(DTaliums
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF MeCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and
GIBBS, BRIGHT & C 0„ Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON,
McFARLANE BROS., Hobart.
Brisbane.
Fremantle.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Seven Sevens.
MARGARET FANE
AND HILARY LOFTING TELL ANOTHER GOOD
STORY ABORT PEOPLE YOU MEET IN THE ’LOO.
Not a good morning, Clifford Mimbles
thought. A sort of a rosy sunshine
was drenching the window, and the
early-morning kick was in the sharp spring
air; some birds had dodged down from the
Botanic Gardens to make a music in the
’Loo; ’Tilda was singing a low song in the
kitchen while she got breakfast. Ordinarily,
all that would have been good. But not to-
day. Nothing was any good to-day.
Cliff turned over, giving the rosy window
his back, and closed his eyes again. But
there wasn’t even any more sleep. They
said you needed less sleep the older you got.
Forty-nine—seven sevens —one year short
of the half-century. He was old, all right.
And he felt old. For a good while he’d been
fed up with “the game,” for one thing, which
was a sure sign of age; and for weeks past
he’d been thinking about his birthday to-
day. None of his other birthdays had meant
anything to him; he’d generally been busy
working out some job, or carefully playing
easy for a get-away, or perhaps doing a
stretch at Bathurst or Long Bay. Birthdays
didn’t mean anything to you in “the game”;
you were either hopping quick and lively or
thinking all out all the time. Unless you
were in, and wanted to forget your damn
birthday and every other day until you
were out again.
Cliff opened his hard, cold eyes once more
and turned round to the window’s sunlit
flush. That was it. Birthdays ought to
mean something to you; it was when you
got on in years you realised that. That
window there, all bright and clear, and the
birds muttering and singing; this feel in the
September morning. ... Suddenly he sat
upright and caught his breath, sighing
deeply. “The game” was good—finest game in
the world —but you had to be young—young
—to give it a dinkum go. His hand fumbled
for a cigarette and matches on the chair;
sighing deeply again, he lit the cigarette and
got out of bed.
Under the shower he got the great idea.
What was “the game,” when you came to
look at it on your 49th birthday?
His thoughts slipped away on the voices
of those birds to a little place in the country.
He’d seen some bosker little townships once
or twice when he was lying low after doing
a job—quiet, easy places with never a
thought of the everlasting scare. A bit of
an orchard (the trees would be white and
pink now), and a garden.... He shut out
all the high spots; shut out the ’Loo and all
the watchful lazy faces he had known for
close on half a century, all the low spots;
Long Bay and Bathurst—all the rest of it.
He was feeding the fowls while he put on
his pyjamas again; he was standing in the
yard in the level early sunshine with a
quiet mind, feeding a bunch of hungry fowls.
With his accustomed care he looked out
to-day’s suit and shirt, socks, tie, handker-
chief and shoes. With his accustomed deft
swiftness he put these on, and presently,
a symphony in delicately shaded browns,
came into the kitchen.
’Tilda’s low song ceased as he entered.
She glanced at his lean, impassive face and
opened the oven. “Well, Mr. Clifford Mim-
bles,” she said indifferently, “you look like
a wet week-end this morning.”
He eyed the stiff-looking bacon-and-eggs
on the table. “Do I?” he said. “It’s me
birthday to-day. P’r’aps that’s why. I’m
49 to-day, ’Tilda.”
“Are you?” she asked still indifferently.
“You look 89,” she added, handing him a
cup of tea. “At least, there’s about that
much kick in the look of you.”
“Thanks.” Cliff cut one of the hard eggs
in halves and managed to get four chips of
bacon on to his fork at once. A mouthful
of strong, hot tea made the combination taste
a bit less like greasy sawdust. He gave in
soon, and finished the cup of tea, handing
it back to her for replenishing.
“Like the • country, ’Tilda?” he asked,
lighting a cigarette and pushing his plate
away. “I mean, flowers and vegetables,
fowls and that.”
She glanced again at his expressionless
face. "It’s all right in its place, I s’pose,”
she admitted. “Why?”
“I mean, to live there. Give the ’Loo and
‘the game’ the go-by, and take a small place.
Settle down for good.”
She paused for a moment in the refilling
of the teapot. “I don’t care,” she told him
finally. “Any place’d be the same to live
in, with you like you are now.”
Cliff looked up. “What’s the matter with
me?” he asked, his cold eyes watching her.
“Dead on your feet, I think,” she sug-
gested. “You never do a job now, or go
after one, or seem to want one. It’s like
being married to the parson at Woop-Woop.
I should think a two-by-four selection in the
country would be just the place for you.”
Cliff pondered this a moment. “It’s me
age, ’Tilda,” he confessed. “I’m not the
man I was”
“Age, me foot!” She slammed the lid on
the teapot, and put the kettle back. “You’ve
gone soft—soft! Why. there was a time,
when you’d thought up a job or got a smell
of one, you’d come stepping back to me with
your head up like a two-year-old—walking
in like you owned all Crown-street. With
your eyes alight and a bunch of flowers for
me—you’d always bring me a bunch of
flowers when you’d thought out a good one.”
Cliff pondered this, too. “I know, ’Tilda,”
he began, but she brushed him away.
“And now you go in and out with a wooden
face and not two words to your name.
‘ ’Cos I’m 49,’ says you. Well, what of it?
You’re alive, aren’t you, whether you look
like it or not? ‘Take me to Woop-Woop,’
says you, ‘where the birdies’ll sing to me,
and’ ”
‘‘Look, ’Tilda.’’ Knowing that tone in his
voice, she fell silent, and sat watching him.
“You're only saying what I said—that I’m
not fit for ‘the game.’ Supposing I slipped
and got a longish stretch now, at my age.
I’d never stand it; it’d do me in for good.
I'm the one that knows—not you. AVell,
if we got away into the country and chucked
the lot we’d be happy and—and safe. You’d
soon get used to it, and there’d be the flow-
ers and tlje fresh air and”
“I said I. didn’t care, didn’t I?” she re-
minded him wearily. “It’s all the same to
me—all too much the damn same—where we
are. Your job’s your job, and you’re good
at it. Well, you want to chuck it and grow
cabbages. Righto. Good luck to you.” She
took his plate and cup and saucer. “Another
cup o’ tea?”
“No.” Cliff lit another cigarette. “I was
good at it,” he amended obstinately. “I
had a name for being good at it. One of the
top-notcliers. And I earned it. But I can’t
do it now. I’m too old.”
But ’Tilda had obviously lost interest in
Cliff and his age. She put the crockery in
the sink. “Well, go an’ do what’s left of
your job now. This is my busy morning.”
Glancing up from the sink she smiled at
him, her weather-beaten eyes kind for the
moment. “And get your tea out. Don’t
come back here expecting any. I’m going
to Susie’s for the day, and I shan’t be home
till the 8 o’clock train. So long.”
What was left of his job was not inspir
ing. An example of the high arts of tailor-
ing and haberdashery, he wandered into the
Barcelona bar of the Madrid, where he drank
two ginger ales and listened to two silken-
voiced gentlemen embroidering the truth.
The tales they told were full of color and
glory, but they were fools who spent more
than half their lives “in,” and deserved to
do so. The first thing to learn in “the game”
was where fancy stopped and fact began;
knowing that was the difference between a
top-notcher and a bag-snatcher; not know-
ing it filled up Long Bay and Parramatta
and all the “stirs,” and cost the State a lot
of money. These small crooks depressed
him; behind their smooth voices he could
hear a steady diapason: “Seven sevens are
in never-ending warnings. Which
further depressed him, so that for two pins
he’d have thrown the ginger ales at the
waiter and hurled himself into the teeth of
a dinkum row.
Instead he listened until he couldn’t stand
another minute of it, finished, his ginger ale
and drifted out into Castlereagh-street. Three
office-boys mistook him for an aide-de-camp
or a millionaire, but the trams reminded him
that seven sevens are forty-nine, and he
loafed into the arcade to see Izzy. Not that
he wanted to, but it was somewhere to go,
and Izzy wasn’t a fool.
Izzy’s grim, secret-looking office on the
top floor was just the same, with the case of
fountain-pens and cutlery-gadgets (of which
Izzy wasn't the agent), and the grey still
face behind the table. This grey face talked
in a. steady monotone for what was left of
the morning, a monotone whose burden was
that times were bad and things in general
crook. Especially as applied to “the game.”
This being Cliff’s own conviction, he found
the watchful secret office soothing after
those little bag-snatchers at the Madrid, and
finally took Izzy out to lunch. But every-
thing in life had gone so radically to Hell
that even this had a sort of gloomy balm.
Lunch, so far as Cliff was concerned, was
not a success; it was vaguely reminiscent of
’Tilda’s bacon-and-eggs and ’Tilda's temper,
and he was glad to get out into the street
again and shake off Izzy and his everlasting
talk. Somehow he loitered his way through
the afternoon, his mind a blank save for
that dim diapason. This loafing was all
that he could expect at his age, he supposed.
A little place in the country would keep
him too busy to remember his age, whatever
’Tilda said about it.
The sun was down when he ultimately
wearied of the day, and tea came into his
empty mind. The Mhdrid? The Alsatian?
The Beverley? No. He’d had enough of
them during the day. What was that place
Rory Blitz was always skiting about, some
place back in the ’Loo—quiet and comfort-
able; rdn by a Frenchman. Why not give
it a go? Rory ought to know; and it was
handy for home. Probably up to putty, but
they’d all be that to-night. He turned his
back on the high spots, and walked over
the Domain back into the ’Loo, coming at
last to the corner of Brazier and Triangle
streets and to the Cafe de la Tour.
To Monsieur Hyacinthe Pecocliet, the
patron of that cafe, the times had also
become a little flat. It is well enough to
establish a true Parisian cafe in the ’Loo,
to teach, so to say, the stomach of the ’Loo
its duty ; but a day comes when the enthu-
siasm fades and is forlorn in an unresponsive
’Loo. Money was scarce; there were few
who could afford a florin for a king’s meal
when a fried steak at home cost but nine-
pence. With finesse and devotion one pre-
pared the plat du jour for perhaps a dozen
to eat and admire, which could hardly be
called profitable, artistically or otherwise.
Naturally, in. these flabby times, more and
more one turned inwards, as it were, for
refuge, putting all one’s knowledge and skill
(Continued on next ‘page.)


m
mi
m
i
■
7M t
m
m
m
mss-
Kg
W/J
\
ill
xn
m
IV®
Sgjpc-^a
siwp*
88
I M
H
■£
'
5%*P
MRS
IT
*gBP
■
n
■Fj
->•;
m
: ■
M
- ’■ :
Crystal O/c/ a ncf A/ew
The lucky few whose families hand down and
cherish old cut glass need not be envied.
You can buy modern crystal that is made by
descendants of the very craftsmen who made /
under the same line of masters, much of the
finest crystal of bygone days. Master and
man, Stuarts are no less skilled to-day. Look
for the name Stuart etched on the glass.
English Hand*made Crystal
Cbtainable wherever beautiful glass it
sold.
into the plat du jour, creating at times a
triumphant beauty of harmonious flavors.
Then, if there was none to eat it
save Jules the waiter, and oneself, one had
at least the artist’s repose of mind and
satisfaction in a completed imagining brought
into being.
Monsieur Pecochet pushed the bowl of
blood-red roses on his desk an inch to the
left and sighed. To the artist there came
sometimes a hunger for praise—not in gross
words, perhaps, but in the sudden surprised
glow in some diner’s face.... Doubtless, that
was a weakness; yet man was but human.
It was late, past the customary ’Loo hour
of the evening meal; and to-night there were
an omelette Poularde with two Pecochet
secrets, a volatile Demi-Deuil, an Aveyron
pot-au-feu, a fricassee half sixteenth-century
Flemish and half Hyacintlie Pecochet.. . . Up
till now, very few had enjoyed and admired
these. Only one slightly noisy party of four
remained. The blood-red roses seemed to nod
in sorrow; regret, their fragrant voices mur-
mured, is part of
The door opened and one other diner
entered. With a certain swift precision ho
had opened and closed the door noiselessly,
and was half-way down the cafe before one
had truly realised his presence. A dandy,
this one; a harmony in shaded browns, his
tall trim figure was admirably unlike the
customary ’Loo clients. And of a distinction,
also; his face was thin and experienced, with
hard controlled eyes behind whose steadiness
there should be a power, one believed. There
was’a something about him.
Itory Blitz was there with three of his
cobbers. He looked up and raised his eye-
brows as Cliff passed his table; but Cliff
shook his head faintly and passed on. He
couldn’t go Rory or his crowd to-night; all
he wanted was to get a meal and fill in time
until ’Tilda got home again. Listlesslv pick-
ing up the menu he was aware that someone
stood beside him. He looked up. It was
the boss —the dark Frenchman who had stood
behind the roses on the desk by the door.
“You wish to dine, MonsieurV'
“I suppose so,” Cliff continued his reading
of the menu.
The patron glanced at him. This one had
no interest, no life in him, for all his dis-
tinction. Perhaps a good meal lie
touched Cliff’s elbow, “Pardon, Monsieur ”
Cliff looked up again, his narrowed eyes
watching the patrols face. “Well?”
“If you will allow me—l cooked these
dishes—-if you will leave the ordering of
your dinner to me, Monsieur, I think it
will content you.”
Cliff put the card down. “Goodo,” he
said. “Most of it’s Greek to me. I leave
it to you.”
Rory looked over again and grinned; but
Cliff stared back as if he’d never heard of
him. Rory was all right; quick and clever,
level-headed —you couldn’t have a better off-
sider on a job. But not to-night. Seven
sevens are forty-nine....
An omelette Poularde followed 'the light
fragrant soup, and Monsieur Pecochet went
back to his desk. In three minutes Jules
would take that indifferent one some
fricassee Flamande Pecochet, and then a
small Spanish savory, piping h0t.... ft
would be strange if his interest in life did
not return. Even now—ah! There was the
sudden surprised glow at the first mouthful
of the Poularde. The patron smiled in spirit.
If people would only learn! Half their
despairs and sorrows came from the abused
stomach. Behold this jaded dandy with two
mouthfuls of an omelette, _ liow his eyes
become thoughtful and quiet,, instead of
hard. He puts down his fork in tranquillity,
and Jules is beside him with the fricassee.
Monsieur Pecochet watched, hungry for the
unworded praise; that frieassde was the very
perfection of blended flavors. Presently lie
sighed in content. Cliff’s face had sung the
praise.
A little pause now, before the savory. The
pause of contemplation, wherein the diner
can look once more at the world and sec
where he was wrong, that those irritations
are nothing, those impossibilities the sim-
plest of easy tasks. The pause for the rosy
view of the world, which is also the healthy
view. Then three mouthfuls of the hot
savory to banish a perhaps too-lieavy con-
templation, the demi-tasse of coffee and the
cigarette, and the work is complete.
Cliff flicked his cigarette-ash into the
saucer. Rory was right; this food was AT.
Nothing better to be got, in Sydney, high
spots or low spots. He’d bring 'Tilda here.
He finished his cigarette, threw the butt
into the coffee cup and lit another. For a
long moment he sat deep in thought, his
eyes narrowed and his spirit far away from
the Cafe de la Tour. That long shot of
Izzy’s—the bank messenger at Allmry... .
Deeper and deeper he seemed to retire into
himself.
Presently he looked up, his face alight, and
just perceptibly jerked his head at Rory.
Rory left his noisy cobbers and came over.
“What’s eating you, Cliff?’’ he asked. “You
came in like your own corpse and up-
staged me”
“Listen, Rory,” Cliff told him. f ‘And
sit down. There’s a job.”
The noisy cobbers got fed up and went
out; Jules glanced at the patron and the
patron ignored him; Jules glanced at the
clock. But still the two heads were close
together at the far table, the low voices
talking on and on.
At last they stood up and took their bats.
Giving them change at the desk, Monsieur
Pecochet looked up at the tall dandy, at
his bright eyes, his lifted confident head.
“You compliment my cooking, Monsieur
he said gently. “You are like anew man.”
Rory laughed. “More like the old man
come to life, you mean.”
“Not so much of the ‘old,’ Rory,” Cliff
said. “Don’t you know that seven sevens
are twenty-nine?” He turned from Rory’s
mystified face to Monsieur Pecochet. “Are
those flowers for sale, Mister?” he asked,
pointing to the roses. “I want a bunch of
flowers to-night.”
Enchanted Waters.
Yesterday entranced I wandered
Nigh lone waters lit by sunset,
Where a flock of peewees flew
Dropping notes of liquid music,
Notes that seemed to shine like dew.
Sending shoreward circling ripples,
Fin and tail like silver gleaming,
Here and there a mullet leapt;
And it seemed beside those. waters
Beauty rosy-lidded slept.
Placid were those lonely waters,
Rich and fair beyond all telling,
Bright beyond all praise, I vouch.
Till a wind from distant hilltops
Came to visit Beauty’s couch.
There arose such pretty prattling,
Murmured music, gentle whispers,
At the coming of that breeze,
That I said: “ ’Tis Beauty talking
Softly to yon mirrored trees.”
Back again across those waters,
Flushed by sunset’s wondrous splendor,
Flew the peewees, two by two,
Dropping notes of liquid music,
Notes that seemed to shine like dew.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Desert Gold.
The ledgers do not balance!
How blest such bards a.s I,
The universe our ledger,
Our counting-house the sky;
' With assets always floating,
Like fleets of tall triremes,
And unrestricted credit
Upon the Bank of Dreams!
If overdrafts are needed,
We have the House of Spring;
So, keeping sane and solvent,
We still contrive to sing.
(From these poetic methods
I here disclose in rhyme,
Some folks might take example
At this sore-straitened time!)
P.N.’s, endorsed by Nature,
We on the future write;
The seasons never fail us—
They cash our drafts on sight.
They pay in golden mintage
Coined by their summer fields,
And silver which in winter
Each passing cloudlet yields.
Our economic problems
Were solved by Lady Chance,
Who gave us Spanish castles
And fair estates in France,
Where pearls of dew are gathered
Among the fleur-de-lis ;
And filled are Fancy’s flagons
With wines of minstrelsy.
Our gems of rarest rhythm,
From other wealth apart,
We keep in safe deposit
Within the vaults of Art.
When bankrupts glum are drinking
Misfortune to the lees,
With keys of inspiration
We gain access to these.
Our pence are always ducats,
Our goslings grow to swans;
Our lady loves are angels
The soldiers saw at Mons....
Who would not be a poet
Foregoing bakers’ bread.
When one may feast for ever
On fairy food instead?
Who would not be a singer
And empty purses flout,
And vulgar food or garments
Serenely go without,
With bonds of Fame at issue,
Immortal shares in sight.
Wherewith to stay the craving
Of common appetite?
Thus heirs of hope succeeding
To vast demesnes in Spain,
We gain what others lose, friend,
And lose what others gain.
At times our fellow-mortals —
Alas, for bards must die! —
Reward us with a statue
Upon a column high
To illustrate the adage,
In cold, enduring stone,
That man shall not his substance
Obtain from bread alone,
Nor grapes shall e’er be gathered.
From thorns. Nor figs, I wis,
Become the fruit of thistles
In any world like this!
If future friends Australian
Decide to tender me,
In doubtful recognition,
Post-mortem charity
In either bronze or marble,
I here record a hope
Their misapplied intention
Restricted be in scope.
I would not in the gardens
Remote and lonesome be,
Or in the public parklands
Desire an effigy,
Where oafs in Sunday raiment,
Secure of board and bed,
And creditors and critics
May most profanely tread.
Nay! Nay! If such must happen,
My followers I’ll thank
To place me near the portals
Of some important bank!
There on my plinth proclaiming
The final worth of Verse,
I'll point a daily moral—
Or prove a civic curse.
At last a fixed deposit.
Each day at ten and five
The board will have to pass me,
My credit still alive!
But when the quiet Sundays
Upon the city fall,
The wealth within their temple—
I’ll seem to own it all!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
LTD., Chancery House,
“THE AGE ”
Established 1854 .
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 122,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office:. 47 Fleet Street.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
' Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
the Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W, Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
The Week
hhs special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Onee = you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SAVE YOUR ESTATE
from the heavy toll of
DEATH DUTIES
by effecting a Life policy for an
amount to cover the duties.
A policy with the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
provides the readiest, cheapest
and most effective protection.
ASSETS £83,000,000
INQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office: F. T. BRIDGES,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney. General Manager.
Agents everywhere in Australia and New Zealand.
as
&
■v
#
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
u .'a.,'
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
ahead.
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
.. '
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Thousands subscribe to Australia’s Great
Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered
“The Bulletin” to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, C.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The BULLETIN for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
gf
0°
„\o® 4 1V ...
„ S e V«*.
1 *\6\ .v* * A//
*<*•
# ‘


7m
GOLD
m
©
I I
m:
*
.
'jrWWm\
A A LSI \
i
!© v.
•5®
7/;
LABEL
......
>
~ 3 ■. V
. ti&i i*
. mm
as
■
MS-Mm r Ktfi’l
■iiiiii
0*
1N66E0R6
L&stcffmj
% / fcdjuntnmfc
COLD
LABEL
fitWjf ffecnyslV
Old ficotcffifyisky
** ‘^ i stilUnSftfeniy Jut
******* <* SCOTCH WHi SHY,
vdintnjrgJu
i^^a^sss
matured ui d
P *»OOUCEO IN SCOTIA#**
CP.
’ATOM)
but
tyhe %arb of Whiskies*
