

8?
Si sSSt,- s* - artAani
k
ill
5i
S9SK
m-
:
■ .
■.■„,= ■;■.'■■ \= : i
ri>.; 7.'*^
wm
OISTIUGRSw
■
«
■ i
' -p
•? §s .- . ;
5? ''jm
7
.
plj- 3": L
W^k.l
4 ■ . '
77
17
■lppi
- ■
'
..
-i
jtStf
nSga!
*'>>7 s elVrs
:7J:V''7: : -: ; ' : V:::7
:X
H-SSSttV
UVfT-l
3Ka: a-;
°q'!| H. 3col I** 1 * 4 * 7*
- 77* NTS , BiN f .•>'-"
otr ,
: 77 : 7
WgEr I
« -..-
i
£: ’■ ■■■fli
■ 7
'maßmamKKM
'. 4".
1 - iftw
;
1
:
7-'^-i
1 ■ -
Sfe
, 1 - ■- -* = t* f l" 1 -k J v3^_‘^
77
7v‘!
- ■
ui'jfl .
i -■-■
WONDERFUL
WHISKY
The Bulletin
fedesative ondf
Vol. 52.—N0. 2671.
Wednesday, April 22, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TV/RITE for Dymock’s Library Catalogue,
** and lists on all subject®, which will
be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Twii^SffiS
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
vnvaisnv
g vd o
JLHOVSATTI
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
w HAIR
ff need
HERE'S
WU) -
e
Grey Hair is always taken to be ,r sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&
S CMEX/CANJ
Stcwn.
Removes the grev
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (•}/<>), Sd. being postage.
è
i s
9
S/,
After Outdoor Exercise
Wash Out Your Pores
with
Cutieura Soap
ami hot water
Anoint any redness or roughness
with Cutienra Ointment.
Nothing better for keeping the
skin in good condition.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: RTowns#Co.,Sydney,N.S.Wo
price
your fancy, write
for the original.
€
m
%
m
pOISED on the crest of a gathering wave, a daring outrigger hesi-
tates an instant, then dives down a valley of curling brine. . . «
Straight for the shore it darts, a skimming arrow on a blue expanse.
. . . Flying spray forms a halo of gleaming iridescence. . . Silhouettes
bronzed figures immobile and erect, like fabled gods astride a steed of
the deep.
Whether Hawaii to you in its colourful loveliness means dreamy days
on coral shores, or active participation in the water sports of old
Hawaiian kings . . . whether fancy dictates a round of golf, in settings
of breath-taking beauty, or rambles through tropic forest fastnesses
. . . whether your mood craves the quiet glory of a magic night, under
the calm of a star-laced sky, or the gaiety and sparkle of Continental
smartness in great hotels . . . the Paradise Isles offer the vacation
you’ll never forget.
Write to-day for information . . . for our colour booklet. Learn how
easy it is to get there on liners that regularly make the trip across the
calm Pacific. . . . Know for yourself how trade-winds banish the worry
of heat and make Hawaii the Land of Perpetual Spring.
Hawaii
tcet— a
Dept.
17.
Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 88,
G.P.0., Sydney,
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Nothing Good About ?
The weather hasn’t it on its own. “What
a wretched day!” is no more familiar than
“Have you read anything worth while
lately?” always followed by “Doesn’t seem
to be anything good coming out,” or “Don’t
seem to be any good writers coming on.”
Actually, there is a surprisingly lasting crop
of both. Just in the last few weeks I have
read such things as Neil M. Gunn’s
Morning Tide, a probable basis for building
comparisons on a year or so hence; Louis
Kaye’s West Australian novel, Tybal Men,
which seems a safe forecast of first-class
work to come; Fairbairn of Jesus, by Steve
Fairbairn, an extended review 7 of which will
appear shortly, and which is, as the reviewer
claims for it, the most outstanding Aus-
tralian autobiography to date. The list
includes Alexandre Krupin’s Yama, the Pit,
banned here by a censorship which once
more illuminated itself by banning in the
same breath James Joyce’s Dubliners,
apparently for no other reason than that
its author wrote Ulysses. Yama, the Pit,
is admittedly on a horrible theme, but it is
clearly moral: its effect—speaking in the
Customs House vernacular—might well
have been to keep any young men who
read it awajr from the wretched places it
deals w 7 ith. But it would only be mock
heroics to be surprised any longer in an
intellectual backwash where a book, like
Dubliners can be banned without any
protest. What is surprising is that good
writers can remain, and even work, in such
a stuffy atmosphere.
A Book of a Pub
An author who should be worth examining
by anyone who believes there are no “good
Writers coming on” is John Hampson, whose
Saturday Night at the Greyhound
(Hogarth; 7s. 6d. net.) is a first novel and
a remarkably well-finished piece of work.
It has the brevity which its title suggests,
but into its little time are crowded the
action of a hard and complete drama,
unusually rounded lives of the sundry
players and well-peopled pictures of a
North England country inn. The inn,
packed with drinkers on the night, is not so
much a clean bit of writing as an arresting
spectacle. There is capital craftsmanship,
too, in the way the writer manages to be
retrospective without interfering with the
action. The strides backward are swift and
apropos. The reader is not held up by them,
for while he is going back over the past
of this or that character, he remains in
the present with the others. The theme
is the effect the innkeeper’s adultery has
upon himself, his wife Ivy, the girl Clara,
Clara’s mother and Ivy’s brother Tom.
Clara’s mother must be one of the most
hideous figures in current fiction, and her
murder of a dog one of the most hideous
incidents. ■ There is a Dickens touch about
both. But the novel is not gloomy or
depressing. The dominating note is cheer-
fulness. The sordid is placed proportion-
ately. There are faults, chiefly a certain
raggedness, but that may even be considered
a virtue by pure realists. Also, the
intrusion of a couple of outsiders towards
the end seems out of the picture. But on
the whole the novel has quality. It is
original and human at'the same time.
Another Good One
Another novel that gives a convincing
answer to “nothing good coming out” is
Stella Benson’s Tobit Transplanted (Mac-
millan; Roycroft; Bs. 6d.). The writer
is in the finest—if not; the only—tradition
of women writers; she descends in. a clearly-
marked line from Jane. Her style is
womanly:—
Titiana Pavlovna Ostapenko and the servant Katya,
bent side by side over waahtubs, looked like a cow
and hind feeding side by side from one trough.
Both wore the same kind of heudkerchief and faded
blue cotton bodice and skirt. But Tanya bent like
someone finding butterflies at her feet, and Katya
bent like a bear offering a goblin a. ride on Its back.
Every now and then, too, she breaks in
with broad womanish sympathy:—
This they were only too anxious to do, poor
things, only they dared not turn their backs for
a second on the Russians.
Or:—
A conflict of noises could always crack her temper,
as, it is said, some discords can crack glass.
The writer of those sentences could call
herself Bill Benson and remain a woman.
Her story is set in that Asia which Stedman
has written so well about in Bulletin
yarns. The title is to be taken literally:
the author has lifted Tobit, habits, vanity
and all, from the Apocrypha and transplanted
him to live out his drama in this strangely
unmodern setting. An Australian writer, by
the way, is doing
that same thing at
the moment —put-
ting Biblical plots
into the local set-
ting, where (as he
says) of course no
one will recognise them. Unlike Grey-
hound, which is all snap, Tobit is a
leisurely novel. Its chief quality is dignity.
Even when the writer has to do with most
undignified things—she is never herself
undignified. It is as though she gathered
her quality where she gathered her plot.
Yet Another!
Eric Linklater, author of Juan in America
(Cape; Roycroft; 75.), might not be called
a new writer, because he wrote the capital
Poet’s Pub. But he is new in the sense
that, he really arrives only in his latest
novel. Tie does some of the things Aldous
Huxley does, and, I think, does them better.
He is without Huxley’s peculiar bitterness.
He seems a more generous and unaffected
observer. That is not to disrate Huxley
so much as to compliment Linklater highly.
Juan might have been written by a Huxley
who had found a different philosophy.
Strictly speaking, it is a novel in form; but
it is the novel of a poet, an essayist and a
cutting satirist. The object on which the
steel nib is turned is to-day’s America.
Juan (“two years in Australia had strength-
ened his body and tanned his skin to
very agreeable brown”) has the excellent
merit in a travelling companion of. being
the best of company. He sees a place that
must be familiar to anyone w r ho has studied
at all in the temples of learning uplifted
in Australia by Air. Stuart Doyle; but he
sees rather differently. One example (a
body has just hurtled to the footpath) :■ —
“I suppose it was a suicide,” said Juan.
“Suicide?” echoes the little Jew. “Sure. Sure it
was suicide. They’re always doing it. Their boy
friend goes out for a walk and forgets to coine back—
see? And the jane, she hasn’t got any dough—
he’s borrowed all she had —and there’s sixty or
seventy bucks owing for the room, and she can’t
write home because the old folks won’t have nothing
more to do with her. She’s in dutch all round, see?
And maybe she’s got a pretty fierce hangover from
the night before. So she opens the window and
looks out, and there’s all the people going up and
down, hurrying from one place to another as though
John D. Rockefeller had sent for them. And she’s
got nowhere to go. She isn’t like anybody else,
and that makes her feel lost. And she’s got nobody
to talk to except the bell-boy, and he’s ■ a S\vede.
See ? And all the noise in the street goes to her
head, and she gdts kinda dizzy, and she thinks
she’s going bug-house, and that scares her more.
And then she thinks, ‘-I’ll fix the dirty bum that
framed me! I’ll do him dirt! I’ll put his name
in the papers!’ But she won’t, because he gave
her a phony name, and.the hotel’s in cahoots with
tile reporters so’s they won’t say nothing about it
anyway. But she don’t know that, see? So then
she climbs outa the window and gives a scream.
But nobody hears that because of the traffic. And
there’s the blonde standing on the window-ledge,
and she looks up. and there’s , two storeys above
her, and she looks down and there’s thtrry below,
and the avenue all moving and spotted with people.
See? And she’s feeling sick and scared, and she
can’t hold on no longer, and she lets; go. And
that’s all, see?”
The same sense of teeming life crops out
in Linklater’s treatment of pretty well every
aspect of the American scene. One other
example (the reaction of the critics to a
play):—
“Here is a play to tear your heart out,” said one.
“Pity caught at ,my throat and choked me,” said
another. This one’s soul was slashed with anguish,
that one’s wrung with terror, and still another’s
turned in his breast like a babe in torment. When
this was its effect on critical hearts and souls, what
was the reaction of ordinary people likely to be?
Juan asked the girl who , sold cigarettes on the
mezzanine floor of the Hotel Connecticut.
“Say,” she answered, “it’s a panic, it’s a wow!”
On the' more intimate matters that must
be expected to come under the survey of a
modem Juan in such a country, Linklater
is equally fresh and unsparing, which may
be a tip to those who want to read a most
arresting book to get in early. This is
Australia'; and an Australia plus a few
Fordes and Chaffeys is equal to anything.
And One More
L. A. G. Strong’s The Garden (Gollancz;
Roycroft; 75.) is another reply to those
who fancy there’s nothing good coming out.
But while holding the opinion that there
is mostly something worthy of attention
about, it is a little out of the way to have
four such novels as Hampson’s, Stella
Benson’s, Linklater’s and Strong’s for one
week’s reading. They make a remarkable
quartette of contrast. They have nothing
in common save fiction quality. The Garden
lreland before the war. It has something
of the flavor of Morning Tide— the same
careful, convincing study of boyhood, with
the same, if not a bigger, sweep of adult
life above it.
RED PAGE.
Something New in Cookers!
The other day two representatives of
Australia’s intellectual aristocracy—that is,
the police censorship—entered a Sydney
bookshop and confiscated Tlxe Gentle Liber-
tine, by Colette (Gollancz).
'fhe bookseller, who owns the property,
has no say in these matters. Two strangers
(Red Page cqntinued on -page 5)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Highest Ideal.
Anthony Horderns'
44
BETTER 8 CLEANER
BEDDING
0
for
your
OLD MATTRESS
e
it
9
Better Bedding!
DY BETTER BEDDING we literally mean
Better Bedding—not just new bedding.
All bedding from Anthony Horderns’
factory is hand made—thus eliminating
the many defects noticeable in the
machine-made product.
In our Kapok Mattresses we use only one
quality of kapok—the best; that is, finest
Japara, which is easily the most satis-
factory in every way. It lasts longer,
keeping its resiliency long after inferior
products have worn to dust. The tickings
used are of the finest qualities, and each
grade represents the utmost value. Every
one of our Mattresses is perfectly finished
—and quality for quality and weight for
weight our prices are emphatically the
lowest.
&
«it **!n
©
B
m
m
P
UsLAI
PFWn
/— s
20
=r«<#:
552
<4
i&i
If
v^=
y>
¥■
Vs
■
O'
\
I
r,
J 3
tv
%
Illvustrat ion above
shows a product of our
Bedding Factory—the
“Madad” Mattress —
obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns’.
Made in 24 separate
divisions, it is hinged
and will fold in the
middle, making it pos-
sible for the housewife
to open any one of the
divisions and change or
add in the Kapok.
(Department, Third Floor.
Free Delivery City and
Suburbs only.)
And we will supply you with a new one at
Our “Famous Low Prices”
For the third time Anthony Horderns’ make this astounding offer. It is an event
that stands as the greatest in their history. And, it is YOUR opportunity to secure
new and better bedding, and, at the same time, dispose of old mattresses which
may be a positive nuisance.
Thousands have already experienced the hygiene and cleanliness that this makes
possible.
What an offer! £1 for the privilege of making a bonfire of that old mattress of
yours—however dilapidated its condition! In instituting this Campaign Anthony
Horderns’ are mindful of the immensely important bearing that Bedding has on
health—they know how easily bedding becomes unhygienic. It is this fact that
prompted the Government practically to forbid the remaking of bedding (kapok)
under the Public Health (Amendment) Act 1921.
In many cases the old Mattresses which you have are not in any sense an asset
they may be actually a liability and a danger. You cannot have them remade;
you cannot sell them; you would probably have to pay for them to be removed.
Then why not take advantage of Anthony Horderns’ Hygiene Campaign to secure
“Better and Cleaner” Bedding?
What We Do! What You Do!
1. —YOU select your fresh bedding from
our tremendous assortment, the prices
being, as always at Anthony Horderns’,
the lowest possible, quality considered.
BUT—note this!
Off our “Famous Low Prices” you receive
generous rebates on your old bedding.
WE WILL ALLOW YOU £1 FOR
YOUR OLD MATTRESS IF YOU PUR-
CHASE A NEW FULL-SIZE ONE. IF
YOU DECIDE ON A MATTRESS
SMALLER THAN 4ft. 6in. WIDE, WE
WILL ALLOW YOU 10/- OFF THE
PRICE OF A NEW ONE. This, of course,
is off our standard prices as quoted in our
regular Price List. We do not include
Flock or Fibre Bedding in this offer, as
we do not recommend them as “Better
Bedding.”
2. —WE WILL deliver your new Bedding
free of charge (if you live /in the metro-
politan area), and SPECIAL vans will
pick up your old Mattress.
The conditions are just as
Generous as before.
’Phone: MUOI
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.. SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Land of
LIQUID SUNSHINE
Honolulu only 13 days from Australia
This is the fastest, coolest,
shortest route to England —
Sydney, Suva, Pago Pago,
Honohilu, San Francisco,
New York, London—only 29
days! Book now to arrive in
London in the early summer.
SYDNEY
m
m
m
i
* X,.
**•<: W
St'
ESI
Golden Shower Trees
form a fragrant arch
over Pensacola Street,
Honolulu. Pink and
Crimson Shower, too,
Spread their fragrance
over the islands.
M
Ideal golf at the famous
Waialae Country Club .
iv
si*:
'
rnmmm
m
' Hi
m
■-
x
x ;
fwSwwxw
■ ■■■X: ' ■
o :•: ••:•: •. :«s*vAvWv:Aw.v.y :•:••• •••••.
v
SEW*
**&*»«»
«$ !'>A ' y.
¥> ; - *
«■ « s
V s .
1A magnificent view from the famous Pali of Nuuanu —beauty spot of the island of Oahu.
HE surf rolls in at Waikiki. The
“ L Golden Shower tree throws a
gleaming web over Honolulu . . .
Nuuanu Pali stands in solemn
grandeur, drenched by liquid
Hawaiian sunshine.
Honolulu—the crossroads of the
Pacific —is a city of mingled ex-
pressions: primitive, modern, natu-
ral, artificial peopled
by many nationalities.
And this fascinating,
thrilling city is only 13
days from Sydney by the
fastest , shortest , coolest
route to America and
England!
Via the Matson route,
you visit Fiji and Samoa —vivid, in-
teresting places-—before you reach
Hawaii. After Honolulu your next
stop is San Francisco.
Every third Saturday at 11 a.m. a
luxurious Matson Liner leaves Syd-
ney. Perfect accommodation, ex-
cellent cuisine, courteous service,
wide deck space, and exciting deck
sports. Go "home” now by this
fastest, shortest, coolest route —
only 29 days to London!
MAIL THIS COUPON TO THE
ADDRESS BELOW.
Please send me free information on a trip
to Suva □ Pago Pago 0 Honolulu 0 United
States 0 England 0 (Check)
M. 4
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
Matson Line
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Telephone B 7981-3


IN STRENGTH AND STABILITY-
IMPREGNABLE
A.M.P. SOCIETY
(Established 1849.)
Another Satisfactory Year.
The 82nd ANNUAL REPORT, covering operations
for the year 1930, discloses the following
FIGURES WHICH IMPRESS:—
NEW ASSURANCES completed during the year £14,000,000
PAYMENTS to Members or their beneficiaries 4,800,000
RESERVES have been increased by £700,000
and now amount to 1,520,000
TOTAL ASSETS at December 31, 1930, over £83,000,000
ANNUAL REVENUE now amounts to £1,000,000 PER MONTH
The ratio of EXPENSES OF MANAGEMENT to Premium Income
in both Ordinary and Industrial Departments WAS LOWER than
in 1929
PAID TO MEMBERS or their dependants since establishment
OVER ONE HUNDRED MILLION POUNDS
OVER THREE MILLION POUNDS will be distributed amongst
the participating members in both Departments on June 30 next,
providing reversionary ADDITIONS TO POLICIES OF £3,300,000
All classes of Life Assurance business transacted.
DIRECTORS:
Sir Alfred W. Meeks, K.8.E., M.L.C., Chairman. Sir Samuel Hordern, Deputy Chairman.
Alex. Jobson, Esq. Dr. George H. Abbott.
Cecil H. Hoskins, Esq. Geo. M. Macarthur Onslow, Esq., C.M.G.
Rt. Hon. Sir Adrian Knox, P.C., Iv.C.M.G.
F. T. Bridges, General Manager. ' F. F. Mcßryde, Assistant General Manager.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., Secretary.
C. A. Elliott, F.1.A., Actuary. A. C. Hollingworth, A.1.A., Manager for N.S.W.
Head Office: 'B7 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Field Representatives in all parts of the State.
simply enter a shop, take a book, and that
is the end of it. The bookseller is left to
take consolation from the fact that the
shop has been graced by a visit from two
members of this unique aristocracy, to hope
that they will not be contaminated by con-
tact with the abominable, and to accept
that in some place unspecified, at some time
unstated, the germ of God knows what mor-
tal ills will be given to the flames.
At least, it is tacitly understood that that
is the end. If it is, the ceremony is gone
through without benefit of press. We do
not know whether these mischief-making
books are burnt at the stake, or cooked to
a cinder in a camp-oven, at night, beyond
Bourke, or whether their flames set sizzling
the roast potatoes and shoulder of mutton
(or would it not be fish, a brain food?) in
the stoves of the mighty.
If it is this last, why light them at all?
Why not feed them into the cold grate?
Such hot stuff ought to be equal to any
dinner. There is that fair scorcher of a
book, Dubliners, just recently banned, and
presumably burnt. It must have brought
the blush of shame to somebody’s cheek,
and, knowing the toughness of the human
fibre, especially that which starts the ball
rolling for the destruction of a Dubliners, I
have been led on to invent my famous
cookers. I am now elaborating the idea,
using a framework of Dubliners, with a din-
ing of Colette, to be set up eventually in
opposition to the Crematorium, which
charges far too much for the cooking of a
bloke.
This contrivance, the marvellous “Cooka-
book” (or “Bookacook”; this name may be
an infringement of Crematorium copy-
right), might prove so hot as to eat up the
ashes and all, but that would be a blessing,
really. There are far too many ashes fly-
ing about from the reprehensible practice
of scattering them to the winds. There is
the painful possibility that some of them
might get into the eyes of our intellectual
aristocracy and prevent their seeing the
vile implications of Alice in Wonderland,
which have not been altogether removed
even from the New South Wales expur-
gated edition, or the bawdy language of
Treasure Island, or the clubroom stories of
The Miracle of Peille. What if that had
already happened! It is awful to think of,
but think of it! Think of what might have
happened to this clean and decent land if
such a book as The Gentle Libertine had
not been removed from that Sydney
shop; a book of which the “Times,” London,
had this to say:—
The first half of The Oentle Libertine (Gollancz;
7s. 6d. net) is Colette very nearly at her best. The
child Minne, with her fair and fragile exterior of
demure French school-girlishness and her secret,
imaginary life- of apache abandonment, is presented
with brilliant skill and wit, a study after Colette’s
own heart. The astonishing contrast between the
child’s actual * sheltered existence as the petted and
precious possession of a widowed mother who lives
for her alone, and the lawless life of the Paris under-
world which she longs to share, gives Colette scope
for satire and humor; her knowledge of the adoles-
cent feminine heart was never more surely and
delicately .-displayed. Not that Minne shows any
trace of real heart until the climax of the book is
reached. Her mother,, her uncle, her cousin Antoine,
who understands her and is the recipient of all her
fantastic and lying secrets, get little or no affection
from the delightful little creature whose curls
and caprices they worship. She; is entirely absorbed
in plotting an escape to the wicked world of the
outer boulevards and the fortifications, where Curly
and Sydney the Snake, Copperhead, the Queen of
the Apaches, Bull’s-eye and thelrest of a murderous
gang stab and strangle and rob every night and all
night.long! To be a girl-bandit; a tigress living on
blood, to-/take her share in massacres and murders,
to oust Copperhead and to become Curly’s bride and
the queen of the Paris apaches is her driving ambi-
tion. In every loafer asleep under a tree she sees a
possible conqueror, and thrills with hope. To
Antoine she confides stories of her secret life that
confound and then enchant him. To Mamma and
Uncle Paul Minne is a tall baby, a white kitten,
but Antoine knows her for the innocent liar she is.
Antoine is 17, and in love with this would-be
outlaw of a mysterious tribe, bound to her by un-
swerving loyalty. He is as delightful in his way
as she is in hers, and the gay and formal background
of French country life shows them to us in the
round. An attempt to enter the world of her lurid
fancy ends in distress but luckily not in complete
disaster, and Minne tumbles out of childhood and
into the second half of her story.
Now she is married to Antoine, but as yet inex-
perienced in love or passion; still the innocent liber-
tine, craving for sensation, seeking it with a naive
seriousness that makes each adventure the mistake
Of a child. Physical sensation is her goal, and
her experiments are altogether less original than her
dreams in the early part of the book. But Colette
is never less than entertaining, and if some touching
and absurd quality of loveliness vanishes with Minne’s
early youth, her biographer gives us in exchange
some irresistible portraits of the social bandits.
That is the lot of it; and I sincerely
hope that it will in no way influence our
intellectual aristocracy to make this book
accessible to the clean, healthy, moral, shy,
timid, unsophisticated, beautiful Australian
public. I hope that with confidence; for
I believe that they know as well as I do
what a pillar of. depravity, what a seditious,
obscene, blasphemous publication the Lon-
don “Times” is. With that hope I offer
all the rights of my famous “Cookabook”
(or “Bookacook”). It is, ladies and gentle-
men, especially effectual for all roasts, boils,
bakes, fries, grills, stews, braises and fri-
cassees. Mr. Oscar Asche has undertaken,, at
the instance of the Professional Chefs’
Association, to personally autograph every
cooker made from the fiery material Colette,
and Patrick Michael O’Hara, advisory
stoker to the Orient Line, will do the same
service for all cookers made from Dubliners.
I make only one condition—that a life-
sized one be sent to Mr. Lang, more in
hope than in anger.
CECIL MANN.
(Sole inventor of “Cookabook” or “Bookacook.”
Patent applied for.)
“Forever Morning”
Here is the bush novel of at least one
critic’s dreams. The story is slight, and
there isn’t a word or kiss of passion in it.
The hero and heroine care for each other,
but they have had no practice in love-mak-
ing, and though intelligent they aren’t arti-
culate. Doris Brunton is the only daughter
of a cocky farmer who was doing well
enough before the slump came to send her
to relatives in Sydney. She doesn’t criticise
city folk, and she isn’t strident about the
virtues of backblockers, but her heart is in
the bush. This is how we are made to
understand it:—
A night on the train held no terrors of sleepless-
ness for her. It was pleasant to lie for a while
in the bunk, feeling the steady swinging of the
carriages. To listen at the stopping-places, and
identify by their noises the various activities of train
arrival. Fragments of shouted sentences; the engine
thundering swiftly past her compartment—going back
to the tank for water
In the morning there was the first peep through
the window to see what progress had been made.
The joy of recognising the increasing familiarity
of the landscape with the pleasant knowledge that
she would soon be home. This was Merivale Creek
over whose bridge they were now thundering—and
there, as the whistle shrieked in the curve, distant
Mt. Mallison swept into view.
Andy, who works at Ridglands, with a
boy named Bert, “had come to them raw
and gangling from an orphanage. He had
stayed and grown to manhood with them.
He had never seen his mother, and he
didn’t know who his father was.” He had
been in the habit of leaving for a while at
slack times. An alleged mother (an
impostor) turns up, disgraces him in Laffin’s
Creek and is accidentally killed, so he
leaves again:—
Hack and pack-horse saddled and packed were wait-
ing. An old dog, wise to the road, and who had
trotted many miles at their heels, lay in the dust at
the horses’ feet, patiently eager.
“So long, Bert!”
“So long, Andy!” The boy felt his hand gripped
in Andy’s long brown fingers, and he tried to steady
his voice as he replied.
Andy picked up the reins of his hack and walked
down the path between the orchard and the house,
the dog bringing the pack-horse behind him.
“Good-bye, Andy!” Doris stepped from the
verandah and extended her hand.
Andy took o£6 his hat as he grasped her hand.
“Good-bye, Doris!”
Their eyes met, and for a moment their feelings
were revealed.... Doris stepped on to the verandah.
She watched him gather the reins and placing his
foot in the stirrup slide into the saddle with the
instinctive grace of a bushman as his horse moved
forward.
“So long!” she said.
“So long!”
Then he was riding down the hill to the front
gate, his grey pack-horse and his dog following.
She gets her father’s field-glasses:—
She saw him come to a point where the track
divided. One, to the right, went direct for the
Queensland border; the other went there also, but it
made a detour and part of it was the main street
of Laffin’s Creek. Andy turned into the one that
went through the town. As he did so she saw
him square his shoulders and give the brim of his
hat a forward tug.
A laugh that was almost a sob choked in her
throat. She knew the significance of the angles at
which Andy wore his hat. Pulled over his eyes,
Andy was cross; the work was a nark, the angle of
contempt! Set on the side of his head, Andy was
happy; world was goodo, the angle of nonchalance!
Pulled forwards and sideways, as at this minute, so
that,. viewed from the front, one eye looked uncom-
promisingly forward and the other was obscured by
the hat-brim, Andy was wrathful; the world was his
enemy, the angle of belligerence! It was as if Andy
had spoken to her.
Andy rides to Mirramilla, near Roma, gets
a job, and is shown where to feed and water
his horses by the station cook.
By the time Andy and his animals had withdrawn
the cook had observed that the dog was a blue-
speckled heeler, with the looks of a good one; that
the hack was a bay gelding, youngish, with a white
near fore and a switch tail; the pack animal, a mare,
flea-bitten grey; though travel-worn, both were good
sorts and both were shod.
The cook knows Andy has come a long
way. His horses were shod. (“Only police
horses go shod on the unmetalled tracks of
Western Queensland.”) He has noted further
that “the man was young, not more than
twenty-three or -four, and tall and spare,
that his clothes were cleaner than most
travellers’, that he had lost a rowel from
his left spur, that he had had his hair
cut in the last day or two, and that he wore
an old Digger hat.” The cook decides that
the new man is “a decent sort of a bloke,”
but tests him.
Andy finished his meal and pushed back his plate.
“S’pose you’ll have a spell this afternoon, after
travellin’ so far?” suggested the cook. “There’s a
spare bunk there.”
Andy detected in the query more than reached the
“Chaps pretty busy?” he asked as he rolled a
cigarette.
“You’d think so to hear ’em talking.”
“I’ll go and lend a hand.” Saying which Andy
pulled his legs from beneath the table, and removed
his spurs. Then lighting his smoke he walked up
to the yard to report to the stockman. A few
minutes later he was chest-deep among the dusty,
weaving backs that filled the yard from rail to rail.
So the story moves from one vignette of
bush life to another till the owner of Ridg-
lands dies in financial difficulties, and Andy
and Doris decide to marry and go on with
the struggle where the pioneer left off.
The book has the most life-like gallery of
station w t orkers, the best description of a
ride on an outlaw, and the most closely
observed study of a backblocker making
billy tea that the writer has seen anywhere.
J. D. Davison, the author, has one of the
principal gifts of a literary artist; he can
make the reader see familiar things with an
intensified vision. His people talk in
character —he gets the very cadences of their
tired up-country voices—and he manages to
interpret and praise the bush without, as
Andy would say, skiting about it. If the
Australian Authors’ Publishing Co., a new
Sydney enterprise which is responsible for
the publication of this book, can find any
more novelists like Mr. Davison, whom
the writer had not heard of till Forever
Morning came along, it will be doing a real
service to Australian literature.
J.B.D.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submittedj
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Briton: But Australia’s war debt to the
British Government is 80 millions, not 400 millions,
. ...M.O’H.: Don’t think so, thank you... .R.W.8.:
M C oV?> OW \ I r C I T ePt for the unskilful ending....
N.b.W.8.: Well enough done, but the space isn’t
here... .Cajim: Quite empty... .J.S.: Good to hear
from you. Compliments handed 0n... .A.E.F.: Much
obliged. Will watch... .R.H.: That’s a poor topic
for serious treatment... .8.G.M.N.: “Thirst” doesn’t
sound as if you really had one... .Ack-Vic: Try it
a bit earlier next year, meanwhile improving the
“mine”—“slime” sort of rhyming and lifting the
ending up to complete the rest.... Freeman: No,
you’re still missing by inches... .R. 1.: Just what
do you mean by “walking the street in paradox
of rose ?... . S.E.F-J.: “Keep Smiling.” Why?....
H.H.. Might place it elsewhere... .F.J.: Advise a
long study of the craft.... &.T.: Where Is My
Song? lurnace 8....A.J.A.: The extra reading
beat it... .E.5.8.L.: Heavy as Lang’s jaw. ...Kit
North: The intention, at least, is g00d... .L. 8.0.:
Morgue has been rather overdone in that form....
841: The reason he “wrote all round the compass”
-XT j ~ j.
a , * ? ad lved tbe ’ e ‘ \° u can
without leaving Manly... .8.H.Y.: Here and there it
is passable, but mostly it is not T.A.: Far too
many rocks in “The Street” Deck: Take to the
boats! “The Ship’s” on fire J.F.D.: Not im-
pressed by the spectacle of Willis weeping A.P.:
Didn’t measure up, and the additional lines weigh
it further down U.L.: Its most ingenious note is
spelling “rainbow” without the “w” A. de R.:
Never recaptures the level of the first line....
8.8. G.: Not bad as verse, but there’s no poetry in
it J.1.A.: Broke all records to the basket
D. 8.: Have read better refrains than This is the
life! Oh gee!”... .Bellerive; In the tradition of
Shakspeare:—-
THE MEN UP IN THE FLIES.
At their appointed posts
Before the curtain rise,
Up among the ropes, were
The strong men of the flies
Aloft above g the stage
And brilliant flashing lights,
To lower down the scenes
On old theatre nights.
Active strong and sure
817, ‘15?
Or to talk about the races
Heavy were their tasks
From before the curtain rise,
The hard and willing men
Away up in the flies.
(Next: “The Octopus.”)
. ...R.M.A.: That sort of yarn is churned out by the
thousand. :. .L.W.8.: Don’t believe any copper would
let the matter drop like that.... J.P.: Just an
aimless narrative... .J.G.R.: Obviously you don’t
know the Outback.... K.E.: A story of that type
has to be cleverly handled. .. .A.H.: This is not an
historical textbook... .R.M.D.: You throw away too
many words before you get going. .. .J.M.C.: Good
old “Bannerman of the Dandenong” p10t... .A.S.W.:
Promising, but a bit unconvincing... .G.G.: Don’t
try to rewrite the movies you have seen during the
week... .H.R.L.: There’s the promise of a good
story in it... .L.0.L.: Just below f.a.q R.M.A.:
All the wordspinning in the world wouldn’t turn
that sardine into a whale... .J.K.M.: Fragments from
“A Tragedy of Life”:—
Upon the Plains, by ruinous drought,
When I met Tam first,
Making to country farther out,
Although dying on his feet from hunger and thirst,
(Taken to the camp-fire, Tam tells of how he “ruined
an innocent wife”): —
That wife crooned at home to their babe of nights,
While he drank and fought mad drunken fights,
And the next day he told her terrible lies,
wken the tragedy came it was not a surpi ise.
Wlfe “ ld were buned near the Australmn
... .I.S.L. : inspect it in sentences and see what they
mean... .D.A.8.: Not up to the occasion... .F.S. A.:
Afraid the “gift for writing doggerel” won’t help
you here... .M.E.D.H.: She may do well later,
though many do as well at that age... .E.E.W.:
“Clang—d—m.” And once again, d—m !... .Joseph :
you should have come to Egypt years ago... A.J.:
one more stanza to the Demon’s credit:—
TT , .. ~, „ ... ■
Hes never lived the same life since;
Repines over his vanished Dove,
A true ]ife spoiltj through Curs’d Drink,
Caused through Broken love.
Maga: Yes; but why try to tell it in verse
at a u ? jt is a capital short story murdered in
metre... .G.F.A.: Hence the expression, dead
AJ- T _. y ery pre tty sentiment, but verse is just
or( jinary C.H.Y.: Too long, too loose, too every-
thin„. ...s.U.: Not as bad as’your lack of faith in
it. You might place it in Melbourne... .J.G.H.: Why
try to father that age-old Scottish yarn on defence-
less Lord Howe Island? J.D.W.: Wife who prefers
bridge to husband requires fresher handling these days,
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
-,,_ ~ , ~ “ ~ _ . *
J.M.M.: Don’t tear them up—there ought to be
R market for them* • • .B.T. t !Not among the worst*
nor among the best.... J.L.: Chinese gag goes back
to the dawn of history... .J.H.R.: Rub a few of
the surplus lines out M.F.D.: Take lessons —
plenty of them K.N.: A scrappy trio S.R.:
You’re only making a hash of things at present.
OB.: Good ... che, here ,„d there, but treble in
the mam 1R - • Not nearly good enough. .. .G.S.:
Presume the billygoat represents Lang, but who’s the
snake in the grass?. .. .T.W.F.: Very juvenile....
A.D.: Not a brilliant start by any means... .C.F.:
You’re an artist in Blunderland S.K.M.: Don’t
strew your lines about as if they were dead matches.
. ...L.K.: Now you have worked that old thing off
your chest, tackle something worth-while... .8.T.:
Hadn’t time enough to tot up your faults... .W.P.:
No use for sunsets drawn in red ink on the inside
of a porridge packet... .A.E.W.: Lacks novelty and
snap.... J.D.: Poor.—L.O.: Picture of Jew asleep
on the map of Australia declined.... P.N.: Very old.
. ...G.8.: Scratches and nothing more... .W.D.: On
its way home.... J.C.F.: Can’t decide whether the
figure on the right is a native-bear or a cockatoo,
....Anon: It’s enough to make Tenniel turn in
his grave... .N.E.: Drawing a calamity; joke in-
comprehensible.


é
jft'/ae
h,. v fr- •- -S*
5*T. 1
■:
mmM
»*>** ' e **** f ..,
f||fp <<* X
H/‘ •'. ' r- ’#
; ~.-v. -
*%£ fi /s>s%*'' u --"•' c *% a 4
* *
lici
kßrandy-
llY
r
B > SEf»PEIT & SONS UNMT*
SOUTH AUSTHAUA,!
' : *& :
*•'.**!
ê
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2671.
April 22, 1931.
CRUELLING THE PITCH.
"Feeling that he no longer had the confidence of the people, King Alfonso of Spain immediately announced his intention to retire.”— Cable.
“Hey, your Majesty, you can’t do this, your Majesty! Think what the precedent will mean for us!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 2V, George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : ll)-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Wkstralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terras to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 l/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE—HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSAVERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. a
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
ANZAC DAY VERSE, by Gerardy, illustrated
by Aria.. . . .. .. • ■ .. 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . .. .. 13
‘•WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
SUNDRY SHOWS 18
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER? 19
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 19
AB.ORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. ..27
SERIAL—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole .. 28, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) 30, 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 32
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . .. 32, 34
SHADOW SHOWS 35
SAID BEFORE—(Drawing by “Hop”) . . ~ 36
COMPLETE STORY—
“FROM SUCH SMALL SEED,” by Alys Brown 37
VERSE —By Hugh McCrae, Enid Cameron,
David McKee Wright . . . . 29, 37
FEDERATION OR UNIFICATION?
“For forms of government let fools contest;
Whate’er is best administered is best.”
When our Federal system is held to be a
failure and unification is put forward as a
substitute, the ground almost always taken
is that of expense. Federation, we are told,
was to lighten the cost of government,
which we know was much too heavy, and
instead it has enormously added to the
people’s burdens. But is this line of argu-
ment fair to Federation? Federation must,
of course, answer the charges of extrava-
gance within its own ambit; but can we
reasonably charge it with the extravagances
of the States? That the two have grown
up as spendthrifts side by side seems to
show, not that Federation is to blame, but
that the same influences have been at work
upon both systems, and would probably
have had similar results if we had adopted
unification or made no change in our form
of government at all.
To make a success of any system we shall
have to go back on bur tracks and think
of ourselves, not as a great and rich country
peopled by the salt of the earth, but as a
rather poor country, deficient in harbors and
mountains and rivers and lakes, with a very
sparse rainfall over the greater part of it,
and ill-shaped for economical transport and
therefore successful -settlement. It is a
country which, by reason of its very defi-
ciencies, could swallow up an enormous
amount of capital in developmental work
and give a very poor return for it; a
country therefore which called for the
greatest caution in borrowing and the
utmost economy in spending. It is a country
which, by reason also of its very deficiencies,
could produce those qualities that made the
Digger so conspicuous a figure during the
Great War. It was our country’s poverty
more than anything else which made him
so self-reliant, so marked by initiative, so
extraordinarily capable of “making things
do.” But instead of putting all this down
to the poverty of our country and acting
accordingly, we poured out money like
water, and went further into ways of ex-
travagance. In the midst of the praises
which the world showered upon us, we for-
got that it was our hard struggles with
drought and dearth and distance which had
done most to make us what we were ; and
we fell into the easy, comfortable habit of
thinking that we should come out all right
no matter what happened to the lesser
peoples of the earth.
Our national upbringing, too, made it
easy for us to accept extravagances as quite
in the natural order of things. The bulk of
our people consist of adventurers and the
children of adventurers —people who had
their minds set on picking up a fortune and
were therefore not surprised when affluence
or comparative affluence came their way.
Moreover, again, the very deficiencies and
eccentricities of the country have encour-
aged the national habit of plunging into
extravagance with enthusiasm and accepting
reverses with stoicism. The extraordinary
range of climate in the back-country, the
remarkable succession of? plenty and poverty
in two-thirds of the farm and grazing areas
of the continent, and the startling ups and
downs of the mining fields —such things
prepared us to accept the prosperity of the
big-loan years with hardly a question. An-
other people, amazed at the shower of gold,
might have asked whence it came and what
it all meant. Australia had been brought
up to accept windfalls as part of life. For
this reason no country ever needed guid-
ance more than Australia did in its years
of borrow and boom; yet in the first decade
and a half of the century, when James
Edmond directed this paper, The Bulletin
was on this subject a voice crying in the
wilderness. Two sections who should have
thundered their warnings did most to hurry
Australia down the path—first, the poli-
ticians, and, in a lesser degree, the public
servants. More than all others put to-
gether these are responsible for the so-called
failure of Federation, that failure, as we
have seen, being mainly a question of £ s. d.
What is it that is fundamentally wrong?
For the most part these two bodies are
honest and upright men in their private
lives. How is it that in their public service
they have done such great wrong?
So far as the politician is concerned what
seems to be chiefly the matter is that
membership of Parliament, Federal or State,
has been turned into a whole-time job,
carrying pay and privileges beyond the
dream of most members in their pre-Par-
liamentary days. To win a place so desir-
able there is a competition in veiled
bribery; to keep it there is a struggle to
buy support with public funds. To justify
the whole-time job, proceedings in Parlia-
ment are protracted with a wicked disregard
for the public funds. Nine-tenths of the
time of almost eveiy Parliament in Aus-
tralia is spent in speeches and other pro-
ceedings which will not have the smallest
effect on the opinions or votes of members,
and are never expected to. Two-thirds at
least of the motions and probably one-half
of the bills introduced are never intended
to be carried; they are “part of the game.”
And then the good supporter emerges—
the good supporter who expects some reward
and must get it if he is to be kept “good.”
So Ministerial offices are multiplied and
other jobs with tasty pickings are created.
This done, the business of justification
begins afresh. And here the public servant
can prove his quality. If he is blessed with
imagination he can show the superfluous
Minister a pretext for doing this, that or the
other thing. Thus new departments and sub-
departments and branches are called into
being and provided with heads; and the
more people they can ■ employ, uselessly
or otherwise, obviously the larger the salary
which the permanent head must be paid.
So long as borrowed money flows in the
extent of the practice is not realised, be-
cause there is no limit to the number of
these men whose maintenance can be
charged to loans. When loans cease the
size of the deficits shows the size of the
scandal.
In the first place, the M.P.’s whole-time
job must go. The politician must not be
lifted out of the working community; he
must remain one of the people, sharing their
fortunes and misfortunes, and personally
affected by the legislation passed. The sit-
tings of Parliament must be cut down: 40
a year should be more than ample for any
House in Australia, 25 for most. Payment
should be per sitting, with travelling ex-
penses. The retention of “Hansard” is
quite unnecessary. Organisers or servants
of any political organisation, including any
employers’ association or trade union,
should be disqualified from nomination as
candidates; and either the number of Mini-
sters or their aggregate pay should be fixed
by Statute.
If these and a few more things were done
it would not matter very much whether it
wa,s Federation or Unification that we had.
Without some such things we may chop and
change our political system as we please,
and the results will show very little im-
provement.
A PLEA FOR SINCERITY.
There has been another London press
reference to Australian intolerance of criti-
cism; and an English publicist of the front
rank has lately put it on record that we
have little patience with the man who dis-
agrees with us, and are disposed to believe
that he cannot be quite honest. A French
authority, going further, has declared that
“Australia is a country without intellectual
criticism,” from which it is to be understood
that everybody in Australia is expected to
say what his “class” requires him to say.
Is this true? And if it is true, why is it
true? And how can we get out of the
habit?
The unconventionals are as conspicuous
in literature as anywhere. But any book
that does not accept the conventions has
to walk very warily to pass the guardians
of our morals who stand at our country’s
gates. Norman Lindsay can get his books
published in England and the U.S.A.; they
can pass through edition after edition in
those lands and translations can be made
for foreign lands; but they may not enter
the country whose brilliant child produced
them. And if in righteous indignation he
pours out his soul about the mental dark-
ness and moral squint of his country, he
is so bitterly reproached and reproved that
he is driven to plead he never intended his
perfectly honest and legitimate opinion to
be published. There is a law to punish
obscenity and sedition and blasphemy; but
that is not enough for us. “We don’t like
these views,” say the censors. “Very well,”
say the politicians, their employers; “then
nobody else shall have ar chance of saying
whether they like them or not.”
The politician, no doubt, has been chiefly
responsible for this repression of indepen-
dent thought. In and out of Parliament —
more out perhaps than in—he has cultivated
that abominable class-consciousness which
calls upon every man to act, if not think,
according to the sort of job he has. r I here
was a time when the Labor party welcomed
men for their opinions. If they were doctors
or mine managers or lawyers or journalists
(there was then no A.J.A.) or clergymen,
so much the better; it showed that the
Labor platform appealed to the intellect
and not merely to self-interest. Nobody
was greatly surprised in those days that a
professional man or even an employer be-
longed to the Labor party; was not the
Fabian Society in England composed
mainly of well-to-do intellectuals and per-
sons who frequented fashionable drawing-
rooms? In England little change has taken
place in that respect; but in Australia—
and in N. S. Wales especially—it has be-
come more and more difficult for any but
the true-blue “worker,” the wages man or
the union official, to get a footing in the
Labor party. More than half the opposition
to Theodore is due not to his connection
with either Mungana or Mahony but to the
belief that he has abundant means, ■ just
as the persistent refusal to re-admit ..Arthur
Griffith springs not altogether from his
support of conscription but largely from the
fact - that he is something of an aristocrat
and a professional man.
On the other side of politics the feeling
is now much the same. The barrister who
takes the Labor view is regarded with sus-
picion and must be either a crank or a
self-seeker; and the doctor suspected of
Labor leanings is not to be encouraged
with a fee if it can be avoided.
Honest criticism has thus become almost
an offence; that we may be wrong and our
critic right is not to be thought possible.
“There is our bill,” the Labor politicians
say; “if you do not approve of it, it is
because you want to crush the worker and
exalt the big financial interests.” So the
measure must be “gagged” through. That
the other side may have the best interests
of the worker quite as much at heart is not
admitted for a moment. The man who does
not agree with our plan for helping the
worker must be the worker’s enemy. Not
only are we alone right; we alone are honest
and straightforward.
Our quarrel with the Kaiser did much to
bring in this unreasonable and odious spirit.
It is not the least of the horrors of modern
war that it is fought “all in.” Hatred of
the enemy must be cultivated; and to that
end everything in his favor must be sup-
pressed and everything in his disfavor mag-
nified and circulated. On the other hand
there must be no breath of suspicion of the
purity and nobility of our own motives or
hint of wrong in the manner in which we
are pursuing them. It may be the right
way to win a war, but it is the wrong way
to win anything else. And that it is the
right way to win a war ought to turn us
from it in the pursuit of everything else.
For war, even though it may be forced upon
us, is still the most illogical thing on earth,
and the thing in which right has no better
chance than wrong of winning. Whoever
wins, the results are too shocking to dwell
upon.
So far as politics are concerned we shall
probably not see much improvement until
we completely change our party system,
especially in the direction of breaking the
power of the machines. There, as elsewhere,
our chief aim ought to be sincerity; and we
cannot cultivate much of that until we
bring back the tolerance which the war
banished. We must refurnish ourselves with
the knowledge that a man may be none the
less our friend because he disagrees with
us on many points and resists us; and that
ought to be clear enough to us after the ex-
periences of the last few years. Those same
experiences ought also to make us less dis-
posed to believe in our own omniscience, or
the omniscience even of our party.
Outside politics the way back to free-
dom of thought and expression ought to be
easier, the obstacles should be less deep-
rooted. Those who have been caught up
in the new political movement should help
here. For if the All for Australia League
and other infant organisations of the kind
stand for anything it is honesty of purpose;
and if men of different opinions on many
things can convince one another of their
honesty of purpose the way to frank and
fearless criticism lies wide open. That way
shall we reach the truth that is now so
clouded and cloaked that too often it is
missed altogether.
DOST RACES OF ONE SORT AND
ANOTHER.
Though I am myself an imported Aus-
tralian I read with profound interest the
narrative “At Lake Tyers” (B. l/4/’3l), told
by a Black Australian to a White Aus-
tralian about the lost tribes of this con-
tinent, and the pathos of their decline.
Doubtless the diminution of the pure bloods
of any small race has a note of melancholy
in it, if the purity of the blood is worth
preserving. The pure aboriginal is cer-
tainly disappearing, but there were so few
of him by the earliest estimates that it
wouldn’t take much disappearance to remove
him altogether. He is supposed to have
been about 250,000 strong (say one to 12
square miles). When a race requires so
much space because it neither grows food
nor rears animals—when it is neither pas-
toral, nor agricultural, nor mining, nor sea-
faring, nor manufacturing—its hold on a
barren country is weak. No one knows
how far the primitive Australian had fallen
numerically from his high or medium
estate, and how far he had gone on the
road to extinction, before the white man
met him; but certainly there were few of
him left.
Still, if our full-blooded black brother is
decreasing, the half-breed, or mulatto, of
whom there is a pretty good record, seems
to be doing the opposite. And there is
believed to be a steady increase among the
quadroons, octoroons, sixteenth-oroons,
thirty-second-oroons and so on who more
than disappear in the mass of the population.
Marriage, more than violence, rum or disease,
may have been a prime early cause why the
pure Binghi began to be so much less
obvious. White women were scarce, so it
came to pass that the mulatto or quadroon
baby began to arrive instead of the plain
black or inky baby. This was also one
reason why the much more valuable and
progressive red aboriginal of the U.S.
started disappearing. He became so much
white that he ceased to be counted as
colored.
This sort of tragedy isn’t confined to the
colored races. The pure breeds of some
white tribes are probably passing away as
effectively as the Binghi of Australia, and
making no fuss about it. In Ireland it is
quite common to have a Saxon father and
a quarter-Celtic mother, and this sort of
thing has been in progress for centuries.
The "pure old Celtic stock is probably
approaching extinction in Ireland, but the
stock that is there calls itself Irish, as it
has every right to do, and it doesn’t change
color or lose countenance, however much
it has changed in the course of years. If
our aboriginal person has no national name
to preserve, it is probably because he never
gave himself one. And if he can’t become
a half-breed or sixteenth-breed without the
change of tint marking the vanishment of
the old crowd, that seems to be the work of
Providence, and the white man isn’t re-
sponsible.
The number of lost peoples is large. One
verse of the Scripture mentions six as
doomed to disappearance—the Hittites,
Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and
Jebusites. The Israelites themselves are
gone, though the Jews remain. It is diffi-
cult to preserve a race which requires so
many square miles per head as the Dark
Australian does to save it from deteriora-
tion or even decomposition; but by supply-
ing clothes, rations, tobacco and some
education, the White Australian is doing a
trifle.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Anzac Day.
Inevitably the Anzac Day note is changing,
and it is still not certain what it will be in
the long future. In the first years after “the
birth of a nation on Gallipoli” pride and
sorrow were mingled in the note. They
probably always will be; but as the years
slip by and the Great War falls further into
the mists the sentiments will be less per-
sonal; the historian and philosopher will
have more to say, and the anniversary will
take on the color of its surroundings.
Already we see a swing in that direction:
surrounded by poverty and want, we think
less of the glories of war, and more of the
miseries it brings. No doubt every great
catastrophe of the kind has had its own
distinguishing feature. All have brought
sorrow; but because one at least of the dis-
tinguishing features of the war of 1914-18
was the unexampled use of credit—a use
so tremendous as to throw the whole finan-
cial and industrial machinery of civilisation
out of gear—the suffering has been wholly
without parallel. Not one country in the
world has escaped the tremendous recoil.
The U.S.A., whose eagle swept up the gold
of the universe with both wings, no less than
Germany, staggering beneath the weight
of the blows of an offended world, counts
its unemployed by the million. Into the
jungles of Brazil and the cocoanut groves
of the South Seas—to the uttermost ends of
the earth the war has flung its curse.
It may therefore be that in the time to
come Anzac Day will be a day on which
we shall execrate war and magnify peace;
a day on which we shall ask what is being
done so that the nations shall live in amity;
what is being done, moreover, to remove the
causes of those devastating fluctuations in
prices, and therefore in employment, which
occur in peace but are, as we have seen,
prodigiously accentuated by war. More and
more as communications are improved the
world is one; almost every great problem
is an international problem, almost
every great evil an international evil. Local
disaster may produce local unemployment ;
but it is obvious that the great waves ot
unemployment which roll around the earth,
affecting every country, have a common
cause and demand combined action. Con-
trary to old ideas, even national wealth is
no shield against these fearful onslaughts
of trade depression and industrial distress.
Internationalism once had an unpleasant
sound: it was tacked to all the impracticable
things of Communism. But while the last
few years have exposed Communism as the


enemy of democracy, which is the great
hope of peace, they have brought into being
other agencies, including the League of
Nations, from which the world may expect
tremendous things. In these matters Aus-
tralia is a small atom in the world; yet it
can surely count for as much in peace as it
did in war. Whatever its weight, great or
small, it ought to be used to encourage and
advance those international movements for
grappling with problems upon the solution
of which the happiness of the world so
largely depends.
There must be a way out; and what began
as an anniversary in honor of the sacrifices
of war may well develop into an annual
pledge-giving to seek international co-
operation in securing the blessings of peace.
In no way can we do greater honor to those
who died than in seeking to make such
sublime yet shameful sacrifices impossible
in the future.
Are Governors Worth While?
In addition to being officially content to
retain advisers who deliberately and of set
purpose are defaulters, Sir Philip Game is
now presumably officially con-
tent also to retain advisers
whose public record is regarded
as so scandalous that they are
refused the use of public halls
in Melbourne.
The position calls for plain
thinking and plain speaking.
Mr. Lang appealed to the
people of N. S. Wales as the
leader of a party which, he said,
abhorred repudiation, and
would have nothing to do with
any proposal to evade payment
of its just debts. Mr. Lang
was given a majority in the
State Parliament; and we are
bound to assume that it was on
that representation he was
given it. Within a few weeks
he repudiated his implied
promise to the State, and de-
liberately refused to pay inter-
est due to the State’s creditors
in England. More than that,
he declared that the refusal
was part and parcel of his
policy.
That was three weeks ago;
and Mr. Lang is still his Excel-
lency’s adviser. The question
thereupon arises: Is there any
point at which a Governor can
say to his chief Minister, “You
are doing things which the
country did not authorise you
to do, and I require you to go
to the country for authority”?
If there is not —if the mere
possession of a majority in the
Assembly, no matter how se-
cured, must satisfy the Gov-
ernor—then we shall have the
utmost difficulty in justifying
the appointment of any other
Governor. If the functionary is
entirely powerless to protect
the people, if in every conceiv-
able circumstance he is to be a
mere echo of his Ministers,
then most obviously his office
is a complete redundancy, and
a purposeless burden upon an
otherwise overburdened com-
munity.
Those who hold that, despite
the text of the Governor’s in-
structions, his Excellency ,is
bound to accept the advice of
his Ministers, ask how it could
be otherwise in a democratic
country. What they do not or
will not realise is that this very
development of democratic
government, this insistence
upon the right of the people
to rule, has thrown upon the
Governor, as the first of all his
responsibilities, that of seeing
that the people do rule. Hence
he must be prepared, upon good
grounds, to freely exercise his
power of sending his Ministers
to the people in order to get
their warrant. It is the one
thing he can do to ensure the
rule of the people; and if he
fails in that he forfeits every
claim to the retention of the office in a
democratic community.
♦
The Canberra Comedy.
There is plenty of action in the Canberra
comedy, which has been a tragedy to so
many honest people ; but it is action of a
sort that leads nowhere in particular. The
past week was crowded with events which
have left players and spectators rather more
bewildered than ever. First, Mr. Latham,
leader of the Nationalists, having obtained
“the consent of all members seated on the
Opposition side,” moved the adjournment
of the House to call attention to the fact
that the Government which had undertaken
to balance its budget had a deficit of just
on £20,000,000. The Government was saved
by the votes of Messrs. Eldridge, Ward and
Lazzarini—“kept in office by the contempt-
uous support of men it holds in contempt,”
as Mr. Stewart aptly put it. Then the
Senate threw out the Fiduciary Notes Bill,
and Mr. Scullin retaliated by dropping the
Wheat Bounty Bill, which, to the obvious
anger of Mr. Latham, had been supported
by the Country party and most of the
Lyons group. The wheatgrowers were
promised 4s. a bushel, then 3s. a bushel,
then a £6,000,000 loan, then a bounty pay-
able in Mr. Theodore’s fiduciary notes; now,
as far as this Government is concerned, they
are delivered over defenceless to their
creditors.
On the very day of the division on the
adjournment motion, negotiations for “the
formation of a single Opposition party,
acting on a common policy to be agreed
to, and under a single leader,” were begun
by Mr. Latham. Mr. Hughes, who turned
Mr. Latham’s Government out two years
ago, said he would be charmed to come in.
So did Mr. Lyons, who was a member of
Mr. Scullin’s Government for 15 months.
But Dr. Page, while promising a benevolent
support to any Government that might
issue from the negotiations, pointed out that
he had no authority from the farmers who
support the Country party to do away with
that party. On Saturday came the announce-
ment that it had been arranged to form
“a united Opposition party,” composed of
the Nationalists or ex-Nationalists, the sole
survivor of the Australian party, who was
Labor and then Nationalist, and the Lyons
group (or Mr. Lyons without the group,
whose atttitude was regarded as uncer-
tain), and that Mr. Lyons would lead
it, Mr. Latham having agreed to stand
aside. This result of the manoeuvres has
astonished many good people, but it is not
so very astonishing when the history of the
Liberal and National parties is considered.
The All For Australia League wanted Mr.
Lyons, impressed by the courage and
honesty he has shown of recent months—
above all by his courage, in which Nation-
alism has always been so fatally lacking—
and as soon as Nationalism became aware
of this it went at the knees, as usual.
Meanwhile all hands and the cook are
preparing for a general election. With
an eye on Queensland seats the Government
has renewed the sugar agreement, with-
out any reduction in price to the consumer,
for five years as from September 1 (this
while remaining hostile to a sales tax on
flour that would raise the wheatgrowers’
return to half of the 4s. a bushel it promised
them), and the Opposition, also with an
eye on Queensland seats, has acquiesced.
And in reply to a warning from Robert
Gibson that the Commonwealth Bank has
nearly exhausted its capacity to accommo-
date grossly extravagant Governments, Mr.
Theodore has attacked the banks in his best
electioneering vein. These politicians have
made a mess of everything they have
touched, but they still maintain they can
put everything right if they are allowed
to “nationalise” banking, being satisfied that
they know heaps more about banking than
the bankers. Nationalisation of banking is
a fancy name for the control of bank funds
by politicians experienced in buying block
votes with other people’s money.
♦
J. Bull Extracts a Tooth.
Mr. Lang’s theory that the suspension for
two years of the sinking-fund payments on
Australia’s war debt to the British Govern-
ment is due to the return of his nominee
(with a greatly reduced Labor majority)
in the East Sydney by-election overrates
his own importance. Priminister Scullin’s
claim that the concession is the outcome of
negotiations commenced by him when in
London and continued since is abundantly
substantiated. The relief afforded is not
something that has been won by the bluster
and dishonesty of a Sydney politician from
“bloated bondholders,” but an act of friend-
ship and sympathy on the part of the tax-
payers of the United Kingdom. Those tax-
payers have troubles of their own. They
are supporting on the dote millions of
unemployed, and since Chancellor Snowden
expects to wind up his financial year with a
deficit of £23,000,000 they are faced with
the prospect of additions to their already
heavy burden of taxation.
Mr. Lang comments that the amount of
relief afforded is small, but compared with
Australia’s other liabilities the war debt
to the British Government is small. This is
sober truth, though Mr. Lang has men-
daciously sought to establish a different
impression. It would be fairly safe to
wager that the losses on Government rail-
ways, tramways and other enterprises this
year will exceed the interest on the entire
war debt, in London and in the Common-
wealth. Mr. Lang himself borrowed millions
for some of these enterprises, and what he
calls his “plan” is to scale the lenders—
British, that is, not American. On April 1
he paid £5 Bs. Bd. p.c. interest in New York;
he refused to pay 3 p.c. interest in London.
The effect of the concession is that for the
next two years, instead of paying £5,540,000
per annum, interest and part principal, to the
British Treasury, plus exchange (now 301
p.c.), we will pay only £3,912,000. As Mr.
Lang says, it isn’t much compared with Aus-
tralia’s total liabilities, but, as he carefully
avoids saying, it is the. measure of the fair
and reasonable amount of relief we can
expect from a friendly creditor in respect
of the overseas war indebtedness he is
making such a song about. John Bull has
extracted the only tooth in 'the repudia-
tionist party's head that had any point to it.
♦
Portugal and Australia.
“Feng-Shui”: The revolts in Madeira and
other places indicate that the remnant of the
great Empire presented by D’Albuquerque
to the King of Portugal is beginning to
break up. Macao will probably be returned to
China, and Goa is not likely to be tolerated
as a foreign possession by India. The only
remaining colony in Asia is
the Portuguese portion of
Timor, and, in view of its
importance to Imperial air
communications with Australia,
a case presents itself for British
purchase, or a friendly arrange-
ment via the League of
Nations.
The population of Portuguese
Timor is round about 442,261.
There is a small military force,
which doesn’t succeed in keep-
ing the aborigines in the in-
terior in subjection, a fact
which has been advanced be-
fore as an excuse for Dutch
intervention. The chief exports
are sandalwood, copra, coffee
and wax, but the mainly Eura-
sian overlords are apathetic in
the domain of industry, though
they are born bureaucrats.
During the war Dilly, which
has a very fine harbor, was an
important coaling station for
the British Navy. Since the
peace it has again and again
formed an indispensable step-
ping-stone on the flight from
Singapore to Darwin. At Dilly
there is a good landing-ground
within 300 miles of Australia,
and at the east end of the
island is a lake at an elevation
of 1000 feet which would serve
excellently for a seaplane
harbor.
Timor is in the wheat belt,
and is consequently healthy.
Its open savannahs and park-
like forests are more reminis-
cent of Australia than of the
tropics. It grows the finest of
European fruit and vegetables,
and there is no malaria. At
present the trade of Timor,
which has great possibilities,
is entirely in Dutch and Ger-
man hands. The Government-
subsidised Dutch K.P.M. line
has established a network of
steamship routes over the
whole archipelago, and the
difficulty of Australian trade
getting a footing is shown by
the fact that the British flag
has not been seen at Timor for
five years. Dutch monopolist
ideals did not die with the
winding-up of the Netherlands
East India Company.
Mass Psychology.
“Rue Royale”: In Sydney last
week two youths in plus-fours
and kaleidoscopic sweaters were
reported to have collected their
doles and then passed on for
a game of golf at the municipal
links. It may be said that
municipal golf is cheap, and
that the unemployed might do
worse than play golf. But
logic doesn’t enter into such
matters. The public expects
those who are living on its
money to be consistent. That
is why most of the Nationalist leaders who
have been tipped for high office in the
projected All-Australian or Honest Finance
party, or whatever it may eventually be
called, leave it cold.
I happened to be in Paris five years ago
when the French franc was following the
downward path our pound has been taking,
Poincare instituted a spectacular campaign
to “save the franc.” Financial sacrifices
were demanded of all. The French, though
the most suspicious and critical of people,
swallowed his propaganda, hook, line and
sinker. Poincare and his associates had
always lived up to their economical profes-
sions. They had never asked the State to
spend an unnecessary sou on them or theirs,
The electors knew it, and trusted them
accordingly. Every morning Poincare was
to be seen coming out of the Metro, and
walking to his office in the Tuileries like
any other black-coated worker,
Australians will never put themselves on
short commons on the advice of men who
were associated with Canberra and its
insanities. It isn’t in human nature.
RE- UNION
Having marched by pyre and post, having trekked against the
blast.
We, a soul-united host, facing doubt from coast to coast,
Hold communion with the past;
Rise and mount and ride again, hillward drawn, in column
creeping, ,
Driving on with spur and rein, breasting through the bearded
grain,
Over sunlit pastures leaping.
We are ranked in spirit yet, marshalled on a long parade, •
Held erect, with purpose met, void despair and dumb regret
’Neath undying courage laid.
Sermon and despoiling pen shall not quench the creed we cherish.
Bone and blood of steadfast men, hold and keep your freedom
then,
Suffer not your name to perish!
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


V
va
a
deduced Tariff.
Patrons of “The Australia” are most definitely sharing in
the reduced cost of living. The new “ Room Only ” rates
should be noted as well as the fact that a general revision
has been made of the tariff for the Dining Hall and Grill
Room. Guests are making the pleasant discovery that
distinct savings are theirs without the slightest sacrifice
of quality or service.
Single Room only, from 12/- per day.
Double Room only, from 22/ 6 per day.
Ask for
Illustrated
folder.
Breakfast — 21- and 3/6; and a la carte.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney."
The
Australia
Hotel
SYDNEY
è
é
LADIES’
WATCHES
Lady’s red and
white gold watch.
£lO
La d y’s gold
watch.
£4/10/-
Hardy’s watches are selected from the world’s leading
makers and represent the best value obtainable.
Write for fully
illustrated
catalogue.
Selections sou
on approval.
ê
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREE
BRISBANE:
16 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
198 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Scullin lias been informed that the
£1,600,000 payable annually off this country’s
war debt to the British Treasury may be
suspended for two years, the episode not
being a default but a friendly arrangement.
It was probably recognised that the repudia-
tion dodges of Lang have put Scullin
in an undeserved hole. Lang says that
the concession will “greatly hearten” those
who favor his “plan” for stopping interest
on the external public-works debt of Aus-
tralia (so far as it is due in England, but
not so far as it is due in the United States)
and thus robbing a multitude Of small inves-
tors of their incomes. An act of kindness,
even a small one, is wasted on Lang.
The State deficits at June 30, 1931, are
estimated at £12,000,000, being £8,000,000
(about £3 4s. per head) for N.S.W., where
Lang is, and £4,000,000 (about £1 per head)
for the States where John Thomas isn’t.
Slang was met at Melbourne station by
500 unemployed and a tin-can band, orga-
nised by Garden and another man who had
come over from Sydney for the purpose. If
he voted it a cold reception it wasn’t
more bleak than he might have ex-
pected. The meeting which he came to
address was literally a meeting of credi-
tors, and though creditors may be numerous
they are seldom enthusiastic. When N.S.W.
refused, by the mouth of its suburban house
agent, to pay interest on its British debt
(though it paid on its Yankee debt) the
Commonwealth, which is ultimately respon-
sible, had to find the money or else lie labelled
bankrupt itself. That is to say the five
honest States had to find the money or else
be labelled bankrupt. In point of popula-
tion the five honest States are mostly Vic-
toria. Slang went to Melbourne to demand
loud applause from his creditors, and to tell
them that he had let them in out of sheer
cussedness, and not as- a matter of necessity.
Every private in the army of Labor poli-
ticians carries two marshals’ batons in his’
knapsack. He may hope to become a Labor
leader and then go over and lead the enemy.
Joe Cook did it, and Holman, and Hughes;
and now it is Lyons’s turn. But no young
Liberal or Nationalist or Country-party man
has the remotest chance of becoming a Labor
chief. Strange that the anti-socialists of
the community—at least, they say they are
MR. LATHAM: “No, Mr. Lyons, I insist.
You really must drive the new model.”
anti-socialists —should have this periodical
craving for socialist leadership. Stranger
still that the Nationalists should be so ready
to hand their Federal party and organisa-
tion over to a man who' three months ago
was a Labor Minister after their experience
with Hughes, who in 1929 turned a
Nationalist Government out and brought a
Labor Government in. No doubt they think
their luck is sure to change some time.
The net amount that Slang refused to pay,
as set out in the writ issued by the .Federal
Government, is £577,519. Slang is so
clogged with riches that he has added about
£700,000 a year on paper to the N.S.W. dole,
making a total of about £3,200,000 per
annum. This is good advertising, even if
the N.S.W. unemployed don’t get the money,
and if N.S.W.’s creditors in other States
fail to enthuse much over their blatant and
unabashed debtor.
Scullin, it seems, really expected the
Senate to pass the Fiduciary Notes Bill,
though nobody else did, and in the first flush
of anger at its rejection he said he would
go for a double dissolution. He may, but
then he promised a unification referendum in
1930, and dropped it; lie threatened to resign
his leadership if the Evatt and McTier-
nan appointments were made, and didn’t.
A double dissolution would gravely imperil
jobs which, with ordinary prudence, might
last another 18 months. It would mean that
Theodore, Moloney, Blakeley, Cliifley and 11
other N.S.W. Labor members would have
to fight the Lang mob as well as the Oppo-
sition, and that men from other States, such
as McNeill, Culley, Frost, Curtin, Crouch
(if Corangamite isn’t wiped out) and Jones
would face fearful odds in their constitu-
encies. There will be no double dissolution
if a lot of these gentlemen can help it.
Before the Fiduciary Notes Bill was fired
out Vic. Premier Hogan, realising that it
would bring his State nothing, accepted the
offer of Melbourne Chamber of Commerce
to raise a million and a quarter for
advances to farmers. Interest is to be 4 p.c.
if tax-free, or 5J p.c. if a tax has to be paid.
Consent of the Loan Council, a Vic. bill and
DIGGER: “Get sense, son. If it hadn’t been for foreign
mouth-fighters like that we wouldn’t be mourning
our sixty thousand dead.”
(if exemption from tax is agreed to) a
special clause in a Federal income-tax mea-
sure will be necessary.
Queensland is getting a fair amount of useful
unemployed-relief work done for its special
tax of 3d. in the £ (N. S. Wales exacts
four times as much and the money is nearly
all going in unrequited doles), and the
authors of the relief scheme hope to
do better still. They prepared a plan for
improvement of stock routes, ringbarking
of grazing areas and a massed attack
along the prickly-pear front. The un-
fortunate wording of a clause gave the
Minister a shade too much power in
advancing loans from the fund, and editors
jumped on it with both feet. The Govern-
ment party was stampeded and dropped the
clause. An effort to swing the party round
seems to have succeeded, and next session
Parliament will be asked to amend the mea-
sure to permit loans for the purposes men-
tioned. As it is, workers previously unem-
ployed are tending the timber farms of the
State, and others cleared the Mareeba tobacco
farms —the quickest land-settlement venture
Queensland has known.
Willis, the fresh Labor Agent-General for
N.S.W., arrived at Suva on his way to Lon-
don almost drenched with tears. But for
his umbrella he might have been drowned
by his own emotion. The misrepresentation
of Lang, who gave him his nice billet, he
declared to be “gross.” Lang, he says, hasn’t
proposed to repudiate anything, so Lang
is the victim of a world-wide conspiracy.
Willis has suffered through this, for the ship
left Sydney filled with people who regarded
Lang as a swindler. Instead, it is alleged
by Willis, he won’t do anybody out of a
penny even if the unemployed are howling
for bread, as Lang says they are. Rather
he will pay all debts in full. This will be
a wonderful act, for most Treasurers have
been quite satisfied if they managed to renew
the bill on the day of maturity. How so
big a globe as this took the trouble to con-
spire against so small a worm as Lang needs
explanation.
When Lang addressed an audience at
Adelaide almost everybody present asked
him why he had confined his stoppage of
interest to the British investor, and paid
the Yankee one in full. Lang always hur-
ried on and pretended not to hear. A pos-
sible explanation is terror. The Yankee
press gave a send-off to its own Bill Thomp-
son, of Chicago, accusing him of “filth, cor-
ruption, obscenity, idiocy and bankruptcy,”
and also mentioning such trifles as “moronic
buffoonery, barbaric crime, triumphant hood-
lumism, unchecked graft and dejected citi-
zenship,” and the rest of the vocabulary of
the “Rowdy Journal.” To find himself an
object of general interest in . the tons of
U.S. cheap literature which reach Aus-
tralia would be too much like world-wide-
fame for a bashful political flower of the
Lang variety.
The law has been making an ass of itself
in Melbourne again over legal aspects of the
depression. An employer was charged with
having failed to carry out his contract with
an apprentice. He pleaded that the slump
had forced him out of business. ’Sonah
said he was sorry but he would liave to
impose the usual fine.
Maoriland’s farmer-Premier Forbes is no
believer in the theory that over-production
has caused most of the mischief. Although
the Treasury is pretty hard up, he has an-
nounced that substantial sums will be placed
at the disposal of the Rural Intermediate
Credit Board to be earmarked as fertiliser
loans. Maoriland’s steady increase in farm-
production, despite the fact that practically
no new land has been available for settle-
ment in recent years, is largely due to
systematic use of soil tonics, and Forbes
doesn’t want the depression to check the
good work. Also he has put it up to the
fertiliser manufacturers that in return for
Maoriland’s liberal support
of their industry they should
cut the price. A plodding
sort of way of saving the
country, some will say, but a
million times better than
Lang’s.
The Constitution drafted at
West Maitland for a proposed
new State of New England in
the northern or north-eastern
part of N. S. Wales, which is
ex-Treasurer Page’s bit of
country, was condensed for
press purposes into five pro-
positions :
(1) One House of 25 members,
which will be cheap, though five
members would be cheaper. The
same to be called a Provincial
Council, though the difference be-
tween a Province and a State
isn’t worth swearing by.
(2) Members to be paid so much
per sitting, which is good.
(3) Borrowing to be limited to
nobody knows how much, except by
reference to the people, when it
may be unlimited if the money can
be got.
(4) Taxation to be the same. In
the ordinary course it may be
blank, but on reference to the
people it may be blanky.
(5) Provision to be made for periodical revision
of the Constitution, but all the same it seems that
the Constitution can be revised any time without
provision. What is there to prevent it?
The other N.S.W. separation movement,
with headquarters at Wagga, is the more
promising of the two.
“Britain Endorses Lang’s Plan” was
the Lang newspaper’s exultant headline over
the news of the British Government’s offer
to do without war sinking-fund payments
for two years. Lang hasn’t endorsed the
“plan” himself. One result of his Reduc-
tion of Interest Bill aiming at the robbery
of Australian holders of N. S. Wales secu-
rities (the State Superannuation Board
excepted, civil servants having voted for
the Lang mob in October) and the fixing
of interest on new loans at B p.c. was that
the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board
could not borrow. Heaps of its construction
workers were put off, and the union—a
powerful one—roared. Down went Slang's
tail. Now the board is asking for £830,000
at 61 p.c., issue price being £99 10s.; and
the interest (actually a trifle over 61 p.c.)
is “guaranteed by the Government of N. S..
Wales.”
While Premier Hogan is on his‘ health
trip to Cairns there will be a truce between
“Please, Mr. Hogan, I’m instructed by the
boys to get your, signature to that per-
sonal undertaking, and will you have
the goodness to look sharp about it?”
him and the Vic. branch of the A.L.P. The
new central executive is friendly to the Pre-
mier, but it has been directed by the annual
conference to get “personal assurances” from
him that he will obey the resolutions of
the September corroboree and put the brake
on retrenchment. And Cal well, the new
president, is Hogan’s subordinate —he is a
clerk in the Treasury! A reverse in the
Assembly on a vital bill—Moratorium, for
example—might relieve the young man of
the necessity for baiting his boss.
Eighteen candidates have nominated for
the six-seated Assembly division of Denison
(Hobart). Eleven are after the three
seats held by Nat. Premier McPliee, Hon.
Minister Grant and Mayor Soundy; among
them are a son of former Premier Elliott
Lewis and Crosby Gilmore, sometime Attor-
ney-General. The four struggling for the
three Labor seats defended by ex-Speaker
Woods, party-whip Cosgrove and editor
Gray are Mahoney, who ran last elec-
tion as Ind. Lab.; Cleary, a former
M.11.A., who was unsuccessful last time;
Tyler, sec. of the A.N.A.; and Bates, a water-
side worker. From now till May 9 Hobart
will be anything but a quiet village.
A few days after Stuart-Itobertson,
M.L.A. for Annandale (N.S.W.), was
declared a bankrupt it was announced, on
the strength of counsel’s opinion, that there
was no bar to the old gentleman’s stand-
ing for re-election; it was the act of bank-
ruptcy, not the condition, that caused the
trouble. A precedent was cited in the case of
Parkes, who was once forced to resign his
seat under similar pressure of circumstances,
but who remained Premier and was duly
“whitewashed” by his constituents pending a
“‘Your army is all generals,’ said Senator Pearce
to the leader of the Senate, and Senator Barnes
admitted it. ‘l’m one of them myself,’ he grinned.
But the generals are happy, for Senator Kneebone
has arrived from South Aus.”
GENERAL BARNES: “At last, a full 'private!
The situation’s saved.”
similar action by the Courts. And in West-
ralia years ago an insolvent legislator was
held to be perfectly within his rights in
offering himself for re-election—although
he failed to secure it —so it is pro-
bably sound law as far as State Parliaments
are concerned. Nevertheless the Federal Con-
stitution sets forth specifically that “being an
undischarged bankrupt or insolvent” is a dis-
qualification for a Parliamentary seat. It isn’t
only divorce laws that need standardising.
For the second time in his political career
—the first was when he nearly came to
blows with Theodore —Nat.-leader Latham
showed signs of agitation last week; and
no wonder. It was a week of emotional
strain for him. Monday he spent wonder-
ing whether the Beasley push would, as was
threatened, absent themselves from the divi-
sion on his motion for the adjournment of
the House. If they did the Government
would be beaten, and he might expect to
be “sent for.” On Tuesday four of the
Beasley push were on hand, and the Gov-
ernment was saved. That same day Latham
was instructed by the Nats, to propose the
formation of “a united Opposition party.”
On Wednesday he was informed that the
Lyons party (now including Wally Marks)
and the Australian party of one would come
in, and that the Country party wouldn’t. On
Thursday he found himself deserted by the
Lyons party and the Australian party, as
well as the Country party, when the Wheat
Marketing Bill was voted on, and told his
prospective allies what he thought of them.
On Friday he announced (1) that he had
been profoundly moved by the Gibson-Theo-
dore letters regarding the restriction of Gov-
ernment credit, and (2) that, he had decided
to let Lyons lead the “united” party. On
Saturday, no doubt, relays of handkerchiefs
soaked in vinegar were applied to the over-
wrought gentleman’s forehead.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Ex-dig”: It was a rainy evening in the
Sydney Domain, where an ex-soldier, tem-
porarily out of luck, has established a fairly
comfortable camp, as Domain camps go.
Moved by pity for a less fortunate neighbor,
who was sheltering, with not much extra
cover but newspapers, under a ledge of drip-
ping rock, the camper invited him inside. As
they sat yarning, it presently dawned on both
of them that they had met before in some-
what similar circumstances —in France just
13 years ago. But then their positions were
reversed; the present camp-owner, on his
way to rejoin his unit, had been caught in
a murky night which Fritz was making
more unpleasant with occasional shells. He
was tired, hungry and lost, when the occu-
pier of a dug-out which he still remembered
as “a regular home” relieved his condition.
The two Diggers had never met, before or
since, until Fate threw them together so
queerly.
“X.S.”: An endurance performance only
second to that of Miss Gleitze has been
brought off by a girl from Maoriland. She
was found in the Yarra the other morning by
an astonished sailor, who was at first inclined
to think that the stories about mermaids must
be true. The rescued one explained that
HIT IT IN ONE.
“It’s the present you wanted, Grand-dad.”
“Ha, now, what’s that, I wonder?”
“Don’t you ’member? You said you wanted something you could never part with.
So I’ve brought you a comb.”
the previous night she was returning .along
the South Wharf from a golf course when
she tripped over a rope find fell into the
stream. She caught hold of a steamer’s
hawser, but was unable to lift herself up.
She was in the bitterly cold water for 11
hours, but recovered in hospital.
“Bangemall”: The Westralian goldfields
press of the roaring and post-roaring days
always prided itself on its readiness to oblige
the church, even if it seldom went there.
In a fine spirit of broadmindedness every
little Saturday sheet would print the pro-
grammes of all the denominations for
the following day without any charge
The church notices got
the best place in the
paper, too —right above
the editorial about the
alluvial troubles or the
public battery. The
clerics valued the conces-
sion, but I still recall the
arrival of one of the
black-coats one Saturday
morning in a state of
most unclerical indigna-
tion. His notice, it
seemed, had been designed
to convey that there
would be “matins” at one
hour and “evensong” at
another; the trouble was
that the former word had
got into print as “muf-
fins.” Of course there
were profuse apologies
and the usual attempt to
put the blame on some
careless comp., but the
pastor flatly refused to
be placated. He hinted
darkly at sectarianism,
and nothing the editor
could say about, the in-
evitable accidents in
newspaper offices —a small enough one in this
case, by Mulgaland standards —was any use.
He refused to send in another notice, and
his church remained unrepresented until he
was transferred.
# * * *
“Jeames”: Alfonso XIII. has been the
world’s best advt. for London tailoring for
years. It was one of Spain’s minor griev-
ances against him that every stitch he wore
—boots, suits, hats, even shirts and socks—
came from the neighborhood of Bond-street.
He shows off clothes far better than, say, the
Prince, having a tall, lean figure and a spec-
tacular military bearing. His taste was
reputed to be good till the war came and
forced him to buy clothes in his own country,
which was neutral with pro-German lean-
ings. Then a ghastly fact became known
to the world of masculine fashion, and it
provided London with a further advt. The
“Tailor and Cutter’s” Madrid correspondent
revealed that the King was wearing a purple
dress-suit! The “Times” had a short article
on the subject, in which it pointed out that
sartorial crimes of the sort were always
liable to be committed by men who were
debarred from drinking at the Pierian
spring of West End taste for long periods
of time.
“Kokopo”: Those Papuan seamen (B.
4/3/’3l) are not the only natives who can
stand up to the duty imposed on them. At
Kavieng a corporal of the New Guinea police
did quite a good job. A very bad hat, who was
serving a life sentence _ for an. atrocidus
murder, decided to keep his hand in by mur-
dering another native convict. That done,
he entrenched himself in a cell and
dared all and sundry to come on. Though he
was armed with the deadly 16-inch scrub-
knife with which he had killed his fellow
lag. the white officials dared not employ fire-
arms as a last resort —anyone knowing the
THE UNCANNY RIVAL.
“That girl catches almost any man she goes after. Yet she cant talk; she’s nothing
to look at—all she can do is write.”
“Oh, I suppose there’s a hook on the lines she drops them."
Canberra-run native policy of the Mandated
Territory will understand why. Several
attempts to grab him resulted in the wound-
ing of a couple of natives. Then one Corporal
Nudaba made a shield of corrugated-iron, and,
though the scrub-knife cut right through
his protection, got into grips with the
desperado and overpowered him.
i; if. * *
“Bildad” : Charles Hardy, of the Riverina
separation movement, has denounced I re-
mier Lang, in a hackneyed_ fashion, as 'the
greatest political Iscariot” in Australia. It
seems unkind, for Iscariot wasn t the great-
est apostolic Lang
in Biblical his-
tory so far as the
evidence goes. A
feasible theory is
that he was of
the old school of
patriots, and took
seriously the fact
that Jesus
Christ, in addi-
tion to his divin-
ity, was the
eldest direct male
descendant of
David and Solo-
mon, as set out
in the first 16
verses of Mat-
thew, and thus
hereditary king
of the Jews. So
lie did like some
other foolish poli-
ticians, and forced
the issue so that
the Romans might
rush in where
angels feared to
tread, and get
what was due to
them, and when
his great scheme
went askew he
committed s u i-
cide. The Bible
narrative is much
overlaid by tradi-
tion. For all the
evidence to the
contrary, Dives
may have acquir-
e d his wealth
honestly and made
a good use of it,
like squatter Job,
and his pensioner
Lazarus may have
acquired his sores
and his dogs by
methods whi c h
are best not in-
quired into. There
is no Scriptural
evidence that
Mary Magdalene
was at any time
a Flossie or vamp,
though she suffer-
ed once from the
undeserved mis-
fortune, to which
any respectable
householder was
then liable, of
having seven
devils in her in-
n a r d s. The
charge against Barabbas, who has been de-
nounced for centuries, is that he insurrected
against the foreign oppressor, and someone,
possibly Pontius Pilate’s uncle, was killed
in the mix-up. This national hero apparently
didn’t shirk his fate, and may not have been
even aware of the circumstances. People
who seek to express a well-founded opinion
about a man like Lang shouldn’t throw pro-
miscuous bricks in the process.
* * * *
“ J.D.”: A Sydney Sunday paper inter-
viewed some cinema magnates recently on
the delicate subject of their Sabbath shows.
They denied that the shows were for amuse-
ment. No! no! they were “solely for the
instruction of those in the trade who could
spare no other evening.” It made me smile.
At the last Sabbath talkie I attended the
front part of the d.-c. contained a sporting
doctor and party ; a sporting architect and
party; half a dozen racing pastoralists ; most
of the old-time Hebrew first-nighters; and
a miscellany of city tradesmen, hotel
managers and young men about town and
their womenfolk. At the back in the ill-
ventilated and inaudible neighborhood of
the roof were the pressmen, including myself.
It has been my wary custom ever since to
pass on to our family charwoman any
managerial Greek gifts in the way of Sunday
cinema tickets that come along, but I have
spent a lot of time puzzling wliat the game
of the magnates can be. Those chiefly
catered for don’t count either way; they
are not in the habit of discussing abstract,
things like shows, whether pro or con, and
wouldn’t be accepted authorities if they did.
The only effect of inviting them to a pre-
view is to keep them from buying seats when
the picture is screened publicly. Pressmen
count a lot. The fat-lieaded conduct of some
of the younger publicity-hounds employed by
cinema' bosses is largely responsible for
the fact that the talkies have a worse
“press” here than anywhere in the English-
speaking world. The publicity men of tar
late lamented legitimate stage knew their
job much better.
* * *
“H.A.L.”: A few minutes’ talk with a
professional fisherman would show “White-
hall” (B. 8/4/’3l) that the reason why the
fish he mentions are no longer to be purchased
in city shops is that it doesn’t pay to send
them to market. Leatherjacket is, as he says,
one of the best fish we have: but if you send
a consignment to the city, even when skinned,
nobody will buy them. The same applies
to the Murray catfish—quite .equal to cod,
if you only know how to cook it. The pur-
chaser, not liking the look of it, passes it
over for the usual snapper, cod or whiting.
Other fish are damned by misleading names.
The deep-sea trumpeter is easily the best fish
in Australian waters, but people will con-
fuse it with the dirty little scavenger of
the tidal creeks. Many a time I’ve helped
the professional fishermen around Pt. Lin-
coln (S.A.), and we always tossed back
a lot of really good fish, keeping only the
well-known varieties. Consumers go by the
look of the fish or its name—and the men
who catch the fish know it.
* * * *
“Gingseng” : A sad tale of misplaced gen-
erosity comes from Dairen, in Korea. A
Japanese waitress was presented with a tip
of 5000 yen. and the munificence so fright-
ened her that she rushed off and reported it
to the police. The customer, a young
man, was approached, and stoutly asserted
his sanity. Then the damsel's troubles
began. She was so pestered by press pub-
licity that she fled to Japan, only to find
the newspapers making her story front-page
stuff, while the theatres put on a skit called
“The Five Thousand Yen Look.” She
got a job at a Tokyo cafe, but her
presence caused so much traffic conges-
tion that the police moved her on, and her
subsequent engagement as a mannequin ter-
minated similarly. In despair she fled back
to Dairen, only to find tha.t so many other
girls had migrated to the city of Gargan-
tuan tips that jobs there were none. But
again such crowds congregated to get
a glimpse of her that the police intervened
once more. At latest she was reported to
be hiding from the fierce light of celebrity
somewhere in Japan. Which all shows that
human nature is much the same all over the
world.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
“X.S.” : Give the Melbourne police a rea-
sonable clue and they will deliver the goods.
The other night the motor patrol was sum-
moned by a shopkeeper whose produce win-
dow had been broken open and fifty dozen
eggs abstracted. A trail of yolk was fol-
lowed but was ultimately lost. The pro-
blem was beginning to take a puzzling
turn when one of the detectives started sniff-
ing the air. In a moment the whole pack
was in full bay along an aerial spoor, com-
posed of a smell familiar to every cop. The
smell soon changed to an equally familiar
sound and, looking over a fence, the men
in blue discovered four somewhat sozzled
citizens sitting round a fire frying the loot.
AFTER 16 YEARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A.N.Z.A.C.” —
That was the brand they bore,
Cases and bales that April day
By the iEgean shore.
And little we thought then,
As we named a nameless beach,
Of chocolate-wheels or a jangling box
With a paunchy spruiker’s speech.
Just to do our best,
Taking it smooth and rough ;
So long as Australia’s name stood bright,
That were thanks enough.
May we now keep the faith
Of those who lie there still.
And march together with steadfast step
Over the brow of the hill.
N.S.W.
GEOFFREY CUMINE.


“Clifford Snook” : I think this is the plain
and feasible explanation of the loss of the
Southern Cloud. It was struck by lightning
when at a great height. At one exceedingly
lonesome stretch of the route it is customary
.to climb 8000 feet in order to dodge the
peaks. The nature of the weather suggests
that kind of catastrophe, and something of
the sort was due, not having happened before.
If the vessel descended in flames with no live
person on board there will be some cinders
and a peck or two of dust somewhere in
the Gippsland forests. Victoria is, for its
size, the most timbered of the States, and
the debris may elude discovery for months
or years.
sjs *J*
“Adelaide”: Another home-made will has
been thrown out by the Supreme Court of
S.A. Testator wrote it on the front and
back of a printed form, but signed the front
only. The Court held that the letters
“P.T.0.” below the signature were not suffi-
cient to make the unsigned back part valid.
:!= * * *
“Nakhoda”: To counter the fall in pil-
grims the King of Hedjaz is having a film
prepared advertising the superior advantages
of Mecca as a tourist resort —for good
Moslems, of course, non-Mohammedans still
being liable to disappear mysteriously if
found in the neighborhood of the Kaaba.
Regularly every year big steamers of various
companies go round and pick up pilgrims in
all parts of the Mohammedan world, pack
them aboard like sardines, and transport
them to Jeddah. Prom Jeddah they Used to
walk to Medina and the Holy City, being fre-
quently despoiled of their money and some-
times of their clothes by Bedouins before they
reached their goal. Arrived there they walk
seven times round the Kaaba and run
seven times between the mountains Safa
and Ilerwa. They lick the rock called
WHAT HE MISSED.
“IJ I had chosen to, I might have married
four of the richest men in Queensland.”
“Then why the devil didn’t you? Four
might have been about able to keep
your bills paid.”
the Sheep’s Heart and pray in the Bait al
Ilaram, through whose ceiling the pure in
spirit were once supposed to be able to see
Heaven. Finally they gaze at the Prophet’s
tomb, allegedly suspended in mid-air before
a support was put under it. Having had
their pockets picked once more, if there is
anything left in them, the pilgrims return to
their native villages, where they are apt to
be regarded as authorities on international
affairs for the remainder of their lives. About
200,000 fresh hadjis used to be thus broau-
cast every year. Ibn Saud’s film will demon-
strate that motor-’buses now ply regularly
between Jeddah and Mecca, and are met by
»> , . . , ~, ’,. .. J
’ 011 amval Without tail.
Mells : Nakhoda” suggests that spirit-
ualism only became a respectable cult “when
Conan Doyle, Oliver Lodge and the great
GOING ONE BETTER.
DOROTHY: “He told me my lips were like Cupid’s bow.”
HILDA: “M’yes. He made a dart for mine.”
Wallace lent their countenance to the move-
ment” (B. 15/4/’3l) ■ but I maintain that
A\ illiam Thomas Stead did more than any of
them to make people take it seriously. Stead
had a tame spirit of his own whom he called
“Julia ” As far as I can recall, she never
told him anything worth while, but he
went on printing “interviews” with her
until his death. Stead had plenty of detrac-
tors who looked on him as over-addicted to
.sensationalism, but he was a remarkably
clear-headed journalist, and nobody ever ques-
tioned his passionate sincerity and his deep
religious convictions. The fact that he
didn’t consider these last inconsistent with
spiritualism in general and “Julia” in par-
ticular did much to shake the old view that
alleged communication with the spirit world
was mere charlatanry and fraud, Doyle and
Lodge took up Stead’s, work later, but neither
had quite the appeal of the man who typified,
more than any other nublicist of his genera-
tion, the Nonconformist conscience.
H* *!• -I- ❖
“Oxon”: A. P. Herbert, of London
“Punch,” crashed when, writing in the
“Argus,” he blamed unionism for Australia's
“fantastic taxi fares” :
I could drive all through London for the price of
a taxi-ride from the Town Hall to Toorak. And the
unfortunate unemployed taxi-drivers, I suppose, will
he told that by keeping up the fares somebody is
keeping up their “standard of life’’ or maintaining
“the solidarity of the toiling masses.”
Petrol and lubricating oil are over 100 per
cent, dearer here than in London; the Lon-
don roads are 50 per cent, better than any
of our city roads; and cars of the taxi
type are a lot cheaper to buy in England—
probably 35 per cent, cheaper on the whole.
Two other factors which don’t exist here
enable the London taxi-driver to keep his
fares at an attractive figure: (1) owing to
the English weather Londoners are continu-
ally taking taxis for short distances, some-
times for no more than a few hundred yards;
(2) London has an elaborate all-the-year-
round night life which extends from Knights-
bridge-Sloane-square on the west to as far
east as Australia House. If it weren’t for
occasional wet days and race weeks and our
frightful and extortionate Government trams,
taxis Would vanish from the face of Sydney
and- Melbourne inside six months.
* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: One of these days a
chauffeur and possibly one or two of his
passengers will be torn to pieces by ordinarily
unoffending Melbourne citizens, and the fault
will lie with the designers of their civic
centre. In other cities Town Halls are set
back in dignified aloofness, but Melbourne's
Hall shoves its Doric front
on to the busiest sidewalk in
the village as if it were a
tenement in Footscray.
Eminent prima donnas
always leave by the front
door after their farewell
recitals, with the result that
their limousines and those
of important members of the
audience have to be drawn
up before the entrance to the
building. This necessitates
leaving the road and barg-
ing across the footpath.
Writer has never seen more
pained astonishment on a
human face than lighted on
the countenance of a fellow-
citizen the other day, when
an enormous Rolls-Royce
crossed his path as he was
hurrying for his six-o’clocker.
He evidently combined a
pathological hatred of the rich with a poor
car for music, and when he was told that
Dame Clara Butt was the reason for this
phenomenon he stood stock-still and broad-
cast an impassioned address on the need for
a revolution.
* * * *
“Nullarbor”: The isolated communities
that are located along the Trans, line between
Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie have had
some compensation for the dreariness of
their surroundings so far in unreduced
wages—all pay comes from the _ Common-
wealth Government —and cheapening neces-
saries of life. But if the Scullidores refuse
to economise in big things they are ready to
do it in small ones, and the cutting down of
the East-West railway service from three
trains a week to two will mean either les-
sened work or rationed work for the railway-
men over 1000 miles of Commonwealth line.
Except, possibly, the fettlers; the perma-
nent way will need as much attention as
before. /■
“Evie G.” : It happened when Hughes was
Prime Minister. Billy’s favorite hobby
(apart from twisting the tail of someone he
doesn’t like) is taking photos. He was on a
visit to Babinda (Q.), and some little boys
were playing about in the road. “There are
five sturdy little white Australians for you,”
remarked the P.M.; “I’d like a photo of
them.” They were duly lined up, and, though
some of the spectators sniggered, the camera
clicked and the operator beamed. Then
someone unkindly blew the gaff. Every one
of the youngsters had a Chinese streak in
him. Billy said nothing, but he broke the
plate across his knee.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Several religious organisa-
tions are dusting their historical records
with a view to celebrating their Australian
centenaries. The Bap-
tists hold theirs this
month; on April 24,
1831, the first meet-
ing of the sect was
held in Sydney in a
room of the Rose and
Crown Inn. Two of
the supporters were
Rev. Ralph Mansfield,
who was associated
with the “S. M.
Herald’s” early days,
an d wealthy Sam
Terry, who made
money out of every-
thing, from pubs to
ratpits. It was not
until 1836, however,
that Baptists were
able to meet in their
own chapel in Batli-
urst-street. The first
baptisms took place
in 1832 in Woolloo-
mooloo Bay. The
C o n g r egationalists
arrived in 1832, and
had a place of worship going within a few
months. It is now incorporated in the School
of Arts building in Pitt-street.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The exchange rate is hit-
ting the intelligentsia as hard as anybody.
Just before the smash a dozen or so violin-
ists, singers and pianists had benefits given
to them in Melbourne and Sydney to enable
them to study abroad. I still meet them
about the streets, and the cause is obvious.
Scholarship-winners are also feeling the
pinch. A prize worth £5OO used to be, good
for three years in Europe—the same sum
pans out at only £350 to-day. Many branches
of science require a final polishing abroad,
but students who have qualified cannot now
afford to take the trip. What makes it
worse is that scientific instruments and
books which have to be imported stand at
a prohibitive price. The only class of brain-
worker I am aware of who views the situa-
tion with calm, if not subdued joy, is the
author who has had a book.published abroad.
The 30 per cent, premium on his foreign
royalties helps to compensate him for the
beggarly threepence which is all he still gets
on a book now sold in Australia for seven
and six. Still, even the foreign book trade
hasn’t escaped the slump.
* * *
“Bloggs”: Sydney’s parking arrangements
must surely be the looniest on earth. “No
parking” signs are exhibited in all the main
city streets and completely ignored. Cops
periodically invade certain streets —often
ones in which parking doesn’t matter two
hoots to the traffic —and sign up any cars
they happen to find there, and the same old
cars are back at the same old stands next
day. As against which, there are congested
areas where the hog driver can block the
traffic as much as he likes without penalty.
Bondi, where the tram stops nearly in the
middle of the street a few yards from the
seafront, is one of them. Darlinghurst,
where trams run insanely for 100 yards or
so in the direction of Macleay-street for the
sole purpose of backing south some minutes
later, is another. I have repeatedly seen
lines of blaspheming motorists held up at
both these spots by single cars with a tram
on one side and the footpath on the other.
I was shooed out of a possy near the courts
once with the intimation that it was “for
Judges’ cars only.” Passing later in the
day I noticed a delivery van which certainly
wasn’t the property of any Judge. The
State iC.J. (why, the Lord only knows!) has
a comprehensive inhibition outside his pri-
vate residence—“No parking in this vicin-
ity.” On a recent night I literally wasn’t
able to get past his house by reason of the
cars parked and parking outside it. But
the oddest experience befel me, in a city side
street which was without a “No parking’
sign. A diminutive Hebrew appeared and
urged me on my way with the news that the
concern which he represented owned the
entire street, and only allowed the public to
use it on sufferance. I didn’t argue. One
of the first things the Sydney motorist learns
is tlie uselessness of applying reason to the
parking .situation.
❖ :jc *
“H'adji Baba” : That Persian art exhibition
in London lias been responsible, for at least
one stunt which did not get into the cables.
The Crown jewels were under glass, the case
being fenced off by high brass rails, while, as
was announced, it. was further protected by
an invisible ray device. One daring ass
determined to test this, and, leaning over
the rail, waved a newspaper about until he
cut the path of the ray. There was the
devil to pay. lied lights were turned on,
sirens hooted, all gates and turnstiles locked
automatically, and from every corner armed
guards came trooping in. A badly scared
young man was apprehended and only
released on giving a solemn undertaking to
play the fool no more, but the public has
been profoundly impressed with the possibili-
ties of modern science. What the Burglars’
Union thinks of it all has not yet been
chronicled.
:!: * *
“Iruwuni” : North Australia’s Protector of
Aborigines has seen fit to debar his charges
from seeing “White Shadows in the South
Seas,” a film which has just reached Darwin.
Tlie reason is that in one .scene a black
islander seizes the noble white man by the
neck, and there seems an uneasy idea that
Binglii might bo stirred to emulation. Un-
fortunately there is no means of preventing
Thursday Island Malays or Manilamen,
who have more money to spend (and
who do more thinking of a sort than
the abo. in their spare time) from seeing
the picture. And it is liable to do them
more harm than it would do Binglii, who, to
give him his due, is invariably well behaved
to the white man and white woman.
;J; •!* ’!• V
“Feng-Shui”: Why do moving-picture
manufacturers persist in representing native
women as moral latitudinarians? Where in
the world do they get the types for tlieir
sensuous brown charmers luring proper
young white men to destruction? I have
lived amongst a score or so of races, of many
religions, and found the native communities
invariably more strait-laced than European
A WAR MEMORY.
FLEURETTE: “Yes, we lost all our fruit
through the bombardment.”
BILL: “Did it shake it off the trees?”
FLEURETTE : “No; but it knocked the scare-
crow to bits. Then there was nothing to
frighten the birds away.”
ones. The Mohammedan puritan is as un-
compromising as his Western brother; when
his womenfolk break their taboos it is in the
same furtive fashion as their European sis-
ters, and they suffer worse penalties. The
Chinese Eve is sequestered from the cradle
to the grave. China used to be an unpopular
station with servants of the East India
Company because Celestial damsels were
reluctant to become their mistresses. In the
South Sea races which have not been
“converted” look after their women very
closely. During a long sojourn in “the
East” I have only twice seen a woman
display more of her charms than local cus-
tom sanctioned. The first time was when
I inadvertently stumbled on my Singapore
sais’s daughter bathing in the well at the
bottom of my garden. The second was when
I paid 50 cents to see a “ballet” of Tami
women, and there were as many repressed
Oriental males sampling the ungainly spec-
tacle as there were Europeans.
ON THE RADIO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tile abdication of the King of Spain and the in-
ception of the Republic were announced from the
Madrid radio station by Senor Zamora, the new
Premier, between a fox-trot and a chorus from
‘Cavalleria Rustieana.’ ’’
Not ’mid the clash of steel and cannons’
roar
And blood and flame and wild tempestuous
shout ,
The proudest throne in Europe toppled o er,
Its oldest royal house was counted out
The hand that sceptre held, the head tlia,
wore
A crown, incontinently left without.
No bells to mark the passing pealed
sonorous —
It came between the fox-trot and the chorus.
O hapless Ilapsburgs! Hopeless Bourbons,
too,
Who nothing learned nor anything forgot.
Inexorable Fate, all history through,
Has made a point of putting on your pot.
But for the lorn and luckless last of you
Surely she kept the most invidious lot —
A king dethroned and flying, sandwiched, as
It were, between grand opera and jazz.
Some fell in royal robes and some in mail
With crashes that disturbed the world
indeed,
And repercussions that would seldom fail
To give posterity a lot to read.
The worst and weakest served to deck a talc
And point a moral, a la Charles the
Swede.
You lost a throne for radio to spin
Another item for the listeners-in.
Write finis to another ruling race,
Old in the days of the illustrious Cid.
Shall blame be his who chose his fail to
face
So philosophically ? God forbid !
He signed a crown away. The populace
Discovered presently in old Madrid
A dynasty had set, with all its glories.
Between the. dance-step and the bedtime
stories!
N.w.s.
T. THE R.


Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M'g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE DUCHESS OF DANTZIC
(Com. Saturday).
CRITERION:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE GONDOLIERS
COMEDY THEATRE: ON THE SPOT,
With Frank Harvey and brilliant company.
Missing Friends.
DRAITHWAITE. —American relatives seek
•l—' nhont Willi ft m, Ralph,
information about
Thomas Braitliwaite and their sister, or
descendants, who came from Ulverston, Lan-
cashire, England, to Australia about 1870.
probably as farmers. Write MISS NELLIE
BRAITHWAITE. 68 Kirkland Street, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, U.S.A.
TF JOHN WARD, engineer, son of the late
*■ William Ward, foreman riveter, retired,
of Homestead, Knoxland Square, Dumbarton,
Scotland, will, communicate with the sub-
scribers he will hear of something to liis
advantage. Will any person knowing the
present address of the said John Ward
kindly furnish same to the subscribers.
WILLIAMSON & BELL,
Writers, 193 St. Vincent Street,
Glasgow, C. 2, Scotland.
Missing' Friends.
I_|ULSE. —-Anyone knowing the whereabouts
of Mrs. Edith Hulse, formerly of Wali-
sall, Derbyshire, please communicate with
S. A. RALPH & SON, Solicitors, 430
Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
Patents,
TREATING FLOUR (CYCLONE
PROCESS).
f\JOTICE is hereby given that the owner of Aus-
tralian Patent No. 13782/28, dated June 10,
1927, is desirous of entering into arrangements for
supplying all .requirements of the public by way
of licence, upon royalty or otherwise, in respect of
the said invention. Further particulars will be sup-
plied on application to DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent
Attorneys, 483 Collins Street, Melbourne.
è
Postage !/•
é
TRY THF WONDERFUL
LOUDSPEAKER
k SOUNDBOX on
YOUR GRAMOPHONE
You can transform the
cheapest, weakest instru-
ment into a powerfully am-
plified and super sweet toned
Gramophone, equal to the most
expensive cabinet model. Amaz-
ing results. Thousands sold all
over the world. Everybody de-
lighted. Send to-day. Price 10/-
each, postage 1/*. State whether
soundbox fits in or slips over
thetone-armc\f your Gramophone.
haniT & CO.,
20, New Oxford Street, London, W.C.I
PERSONAL
ITEMS
G. W. Leslie, the 70-year-old master of
the wrecked Malabar, whom the Court of
Marine Inquiry adjudged guilty of negli-
gence, was one of the very few skippers
whose certificates entitle them to bring a ship
not on the Australian register into a N.S.W.
port without the aid of a Government pilot.
Many skippers hold the exemption for Aus-
tralian ships, but only those whose certifi-
cates were obtained before March, 1900, may
pilot any ship. A company employing such
a skipper utilises him for coastal work only.
For instance, a Burns-Philp boat picks up
the “exempt” master at Brisbane for a trip
to Melbourne. This means two calls at
Sydney, and the pilotage fee of £25 for
each entry and each departure is thereby
saved.
G. W. Simpson, Westralia’s Public Ser-
vice Commissioner, is giving up his job
through ill-health when still a year or two
short of the retiring age. Simpson has held
the billet for 14 years; before that he was
for many years in the Government Stores
Department. He ranked as a level-headed
officer; it was a predecessor of his who
sought to demonstrate his intense patriotism
during the war by publicly thanking Heaven
that he “knew no German.”
“Whitehall”: Alfonso XIII., in bolting
from Spain, might truthfully have echoed
the remark of our Adrian Knox, who, on
stepping down from the High Court Bench
to become an owner of racehorses, said,
“I am leaving a game I hate for one
I love.” Alfonso is an Englishman
in his soul —the sort who belongs to the
Jockey Club, hnnts in the shires and
hasn’t much use for deep-thinkers. He is
a great horseman. The first time I saw him
was in Paris in 1906. The city was en f&te,
smothered with his colors (the M.C.C.
colors), and lie was on horseback in uniform.
As the procession turned out of the Rue
de la-Paix into the Place de l’Opera a band
blared, and his horse shied across the road
and came down on its haunches. He sat
immovable, a toothy grin on his hawk-like
face. No other royalty could have done it.
As a polo-player, cross-country rider, etc.,
he is what the Prince would like to be.
He is understood to be one of the richest
royalties in the world, half his money being
in England and half in the U.S.A. There
Is no doubt he will find hunting in England
and Ireland during the winter, and polo-
playing and racing from London during the
summer, with occasional dashes to Paris,
much more congenial than vegetating in
Spain, which is one of the dullest of Europe’s
outer suburbs. lie isn’t a born ruler—only
one who was born a ruler.
Warwick Fairfax, who represents the fourth
generation of the famous dynasty in charge
of the “S. M. Herald,” has followed the
family tradition in all respects. All the
working Fair-
faxes go to
school in Aus-
tralia ; War-
wick went to
Geelong. Like
his father,
Jam e s. he
took a degree
at Ba 11 iq 1,
and soon after
returning to
Australia he
married a local
gir 1, daugh-
ter of Syd-
ney barrister
Wilson, joined
the Union
Club (there
have been as
many as eight
Fairfaxes in it
at the same
time), and
started work
with the firm.
He writes, in
common with
most members
of his family.
Not so well as
his cousin
Griffith, who
is one of Eng-
land’s most
d i stinguished
poets and a
light of the
Athenaeum, but
WARWICK FAIRFAX,
whose newspaper, the
“S. M. Herald,” was 100
years old on Saturday.
very well indeed. However, his job is mainly
financial and economic, and it is one that
his training has fitted him for. At 30 he
is very much a tolerant, level-headed man of
the world.
Arthur Calwell, the new president of the
Vic. division of the A.L.P., is a Treasury clerk.
He was once the mainstay of the A.N.A.’s
best debating team, and for four years he
was president of the Vic. branch of the Aus-
tralian Public Servants’ Association. He
has his eye on the Melb. seat in the Reps,
when the veteran Dr. Maloney gets tired of ir.
Charles Adam Jeffries died in Sydney
last week, aged 61. He was The Bulle-
tin’s sporting writer for many years, and
in that capacity turned out some of the most
colorful fight reports Australia has read.
They appeared iu book form (“Famous
Fights at the Stadium”) in 1914. His “By
Rail and Semaphore” and “Shepherd Kings
of Canterbury,” a series of stories dealing
with life in M.L., where he arrived from
England with his parents as a small boy,
had thousands of admirers in this part of
the world and in Britain. Jeffries was a
born yarn-spinner; he had a Kiplingesque
C. A. JEFFRIES, as Low saw him.
faculty for endowing pedestrian things with
the glamor of romance; and he was a pic-
turesque and original “character” of the
vanishing Poets’ Bench school. As James
Edmond’s secretary he met most of Aus-
tralia’s leading writers and artists, and there
isn’t one but will mourn the loss of a cheery,
kindly and whimsical being.
Charles C. Watson, who has just relin-
quished the job of N.S.W. Deputy-Sheriff,
joined the Public Service in 1882. For
39 years he was stationed at Darling-
hurst, supervising and paying juries. It was
also his duty to “bring the jury in,” and in
that capacity he has heard more criminal
verdicts pronounced than any man in N. S.
Wales. He retains vivid memories of many
notable trials, from the Dean case onwards.
Norman Harris is confidently tipped as
next commissioner of Vic. railways, if the
Government decides to fill the vacancy which
the retirement of the elderly Shannon will
create. Harris, who has been Clapp’s chief
mechanical engineer for the past three years,
is a local product, a Scotch College boy. He
graduated at McGill University, Montreal,
spent a year or so in the big C.P.R. work-
shops, and was four years with the Hydro-
Electric Power Co. in the Speck before link-
ing up with the Vic. railways in 1915. In
the war he rose to the rank of lieut.-colonel
and collected a D.S.O. and an M.C.
Three of Westralia’s Senators began their
public careers in the humble sphere of
municipal councils. The first elective seat
George Pearce ever occupied was at Subiaco
(Perth), where he scraped in at the tail
of a handful of civic dads, and Paddy
Lynch’s voice was first raised in public con-
troversy at the Boulder council board, where
a man needed to speak loudly to make him-
self heard above the roar of faction. Cole-
batch was Mayor of Nortliam for three years
before he got into Parliament.
A link with Robert Louis Stevenson
snapped in Honolulu the other day with the
passing of Ira Dutton, ex-soldier of the
American Civil War and later a member of
the Trappist Order. The old man. who was
87 when he died, went to Molokai leper
settlement 45 years ago as a lay missioner,
and had stuck to his job ever since. Steven-
son met him during the famous visit to
Molokai which is chronicled in the Vailima
Papers, and got much of the material from
Dutton which he used in his stirring defence
of Father Damien.
Another of Melbourne’s almost innumer-
able first white babies passed over when
George Jones died at Carlton recently. Bat-
man’s Hill, at the corner of Flinders and
Spencer streets, heard his first cry 91 years
ago.
Assembled at St. John’s Parramatta, to
witness the unveiling of the memorial to
Francis and Rebecca Oakes were descen-
dants and representatives of many pion-
eering families. After the ceremony there
was naturally a good deal of genealo-
gical talk, most of the clans having inter-
married. Here are the names of a few of
the interwoven ones : Oakes. Bligh. Johnston,
King, Weston, Marsden, Mansfield, Hume,
Richardson, Bettington, Walker, Laidley,
Small, Allen, Armstrong, Lindsay, McDougal,
Fairfax, Smart, Oxley, Lane, Muriel, Darcy,
Irvine, McPhillamy, Parker, Oliver, Mort,
Chisholm, Shelley, Broughton, Manton, Has-
sall, Sprent (Tasmania), Moriarty, Antill,
Betts, Geeves (Tasmania), Lawry, West,
Harris and Hope. There are others; the job
of making a complete roll of all their descen-
dants would be a formidable one.
The successor to George Dowling (retired)
as manager of the wool department of Golds-
brough, Mort in S. Aus. is Spencer Wil-
liams. Before joining the co., lie was a wool-
classing instructor for S. A. School of Mines
and Industries.
After 43 years Herbert T. Vickers, secre-
tary to the Vic. Premier’s office, will say good-
bye to the service next week. He began as
a deputation' clerk in Gillies’s time, and
found his training as a reporter on a Ben-
digo daily a fine asset. Since then he has
seen 24 Governments. Charlie Gale, who
won a couple of pips and an M.C. during
the Big Scrap, will succeed Vickers, whose
understudy he has been for six years.
Vic. ex-Premier Prendergast, M.L.A. for
Footscray, will be 77 on the day Parlia-
ment meets next month. He was just over
the Psalmist’s span when he got the Pre-
miership in 1924, and he held the job for
only four months. He was Chief Sec. under
Elmslie for 13 days in 1913, and under
Hogan for 18 months (1927-28). With the
exception of one break (1897-1900) “Prendy”
has been in the Assembly since 1894.
Monsignor Shanahan, who is relinquish-
ing his job as dean and parish priest of
Hamilton, at 94, is one of the best-liked men
in the Vic. Western District. He made the
Hamilton Hospital his hobby outside his
ecclesiastical duties. On one occasion, when
a Government grant was held up, the mon-
signor, who was president of the hospital
committee, left for Melbourne by the next
train and bearded Peacock (then Premier)
in his den. After the case for the hospital
had been put Peacock gave in, saying that
the dean had convinced his congregation of
one by a fine sermon. On another occasion
the dean persuaded Peacock to expedite the
payment of a building grant to a rural
mechanics’ institute so that there might be a
decent building for his friend the district
Presbyterian meenister to conduct services in.
Senator Brig.-Gen. Thompson, whose refusal
to avail himself of his right to speak on the
Fiduciary Notes Bill, combined with the fact
that nobody else was ready to do so, enabled
the abortive measure to be thrown out in
double-quick time, was born in Co. Armagh,
Ireland, 68 years ago, and brought to Queens-
land very soon afterwards. Rockhampton
was the scene of his industrial and commer-
cial activities for 40 years, and for 33 years
he was a soldier; he enlisted as a private
in the Queensland Mounted Infantry in
1889, and retired with his present rank
in 1922. In the Boer War Thompson
commanded the second Queensland con-
tingent. and after Paul Kruger had been
W. G. THOMPSON, one of the four soldier-
Sanators from Queensland.
hammered helped to administer martial law
as a magistrate at Pretoria. In the Great
War lie commanded training camps in
Queensland. The State sent him to the
Senate eight years ago.
Ex-Lieut.-Col. Tom White, M.H.R., author
of “Guests of the Unspeakable,” treasures
a lately-received letter from that picturesque
figure “General” Rafael de Nogales, a sol-
dier of fortune who had fought under dif-
ferent flags in several South American
revolutions. It was he who met White
and Yeats-Brown, taken prisoners when their
’plane landed, at an Arab village and volun-
teered, “Can I do anything for you, boys?”
Although dressed in Turkish cavalry uniform,
his accent left no doubt ?>f his nationality,
and White in his book refers appreciatively
to the American as having done everything
in his power to make things easier for
British prisoners. Rafael, who has, written
up his own experiences in Turkey in “Four
Years Beneath the Crescent,” is now back in
American journalism. Lowell Thomas, who
is publishing a book about notable escapes
from Turkey, showed Nogales a copy of
“Guests of the Unspeakable,” now into a
third English edition.
Dr. E. Kidston, who it was thought might
succeed the great H. A. Hunt as Common-
wealth Meteorologist (Minister Blakeley says
the job will go to an Australian), is a leading
authority on upper air currents, a branch of
his science which has been developed by
aviation and is now of immense assistance
to the conquerors of the air. Kidston made
a tour of European countries some years
ago to learn the latest wrinkles on the sub-
ject. He is a Maorilander who served with
the N.Z.E.F. and after the war was appointed
to the Carnegie Magnetic Institute at
Watheroo (W.A.). Later he joined the
Commonwealth Bureau and was second to
Hunt until two years ago, when he got the
job of Director of Meteorology in his native
isles.
Harry Davies, financial editor of the
“West Australian,” packed his gear the
other day for a trip to Europe. Davies is
a native of Los Angeles who has been
in Australia since boyhood; this is his third
visit to the U.K. No pressman was
better known around the Golden Mile in its
palmy days. He expects to return by way
of Canada.
There was a time when Edward Allan
Box, who was born in Melbourne 45 years
ago and educated at Scotch College, looked
well on his way up the Civil Service ladder.
At 27 he was secretary to the Prime Minis-
ter, and when Andy Fisher went to England
as High Commissioner lie took Box with
him as right-hand man. The billet
ALLAN BOX.
brought the young Australian in contact
with Cabinet Ministers and captains -of
industry alike; it was the late Sir Peter
Mackie, of White Horse whisky fame, who
induced Box to give up diplomacy for moun-
tain dew —the business side of it.. He pre-
sently found himself a director of White
Horse Distillers, Ltd., and returned to Aus-
tralia five years ago to supervise the local
operations of that firm along with some
kindred and amalgamated interests. He is
also chairman of the Distillers’ Distributing
Co. and the Federal Distilleries, a director
of some subsidiary enterprises and a partner
in the Western’ Pastoral Co. (N.S.W.).
Cricket and lacrosse were his earlier recrea-
tions ; nowadays he is a solid and determined
golfer.
Federal P.M.G. Texas Green has held the
Ivalgoorlie seat for nine years, and has had
more luck in it than any of his five prede-
cessors. .T. W. Ivirwan (now President of
the State Leg. Council) was the foundation
member, but he was bumped out by Chai'ley
Frazer after one term, and it took him a long-
time to get over it. Frazer, who i*ose to
Cabinet rank under Andy Fisher, died sud-
denly in his early thirties. Hugh Mahon
was next, and his Parliamentary career ter-
minated in expulsion. Heitmann and Foley,
ex-State members, found the seat as insecure
as the old-time coaStguardsman’s stool. But
Green reckons he has lived down the hoodoo,
if there is one.
Inspector G. A. Osborne, of the Vic. Edu-
cation Department, lias left for a six-months’
tour of inspection, under the Carnegie Trust,
of leading educational centres in Canada and
U.S.A. Selected by Frank Tate in past
years for special work, he did much in arous-
ing a forest-Conscience, and was also largely
the means of dotting the State with timber
plantations connected with schools for edu-
cative, commercial and endowment purposes.
“P.X.”: Ambrose Pratt, referred to (B.
14/3/’3l) as a mining magnate who mixes
tin-dredging and story-writing, was started
on this sort of shandygaff life by Frank
(now Sir Frank) Fox. Pratt, a very young
solicitor in those days, had a vivid imagi-
nation t and Fox could write 10,000 words of
crisp English a day. So between them they
composed a serial yarn which the old “Daily
Telegraph” published about, the tail-end of
last century: “By Ambrose Pratt and Frank
Renar.” Pratt’s capacity for bold romanc-
ing fascinated Fox. “We walk down to
lunch together,” he told us, “Ambrose re-
counting his adventures all the way. As we
sit down I think to myself ‘He’ll order half
a lion for certain!’ But when the waitress
comes round Ambrose smiles angelically and
begs for a lamb cutlet.”


Clothes for Men
and Their Sons
ë
A Good
Work Shirt
The “SANTWILL”
Worn by men in all comers of the Common-
wealth. Sand coloured Twill Shirting,
guaranteed fast colour. It revels in the
wash tub and laughs at hard work. H/ Q
All sizes. Three for 22/6. Each l' ss
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMLTEO
In Queen Street, Brisbane
PIONtIR
±/ti±zz.?.
THIS GUARANTEE IS
WORTH WHILE.
Because we stand back of every Pioneer Leather Belt
we sell, we guarantee free replacement should any
defect in quality of material or workmanship develop.
Pioneer Leather Belting costs a little more than a
substitute, but the small extra first cost is an invest-
ment in many more years of service ; maximum
efficiency under all conditions and the elimination of
slipping and costly breakdowns. For economy and
better service.
PIONEER Leather Belting
Manufactured by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street, Sydney.
AGENTS:
Queensland
V JLUMJI lit .
J. C. Ludowici & Son., Ltd.,
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street,
South Melbourne.
West Australia:
Mr. Horace Summers,
9-11 Howard Street, Perth.
ē
South Australia:
J. McKell & Sons,
129 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
New Zealand:
G. W. Arnold, Ltd.,
A.M.P. Chambers, Wellington.
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
I for nothing!
Sr
■
m -
Rates Reduced A
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, bed and breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafd. Inclusive board from
10/6 daily, or 65/- weekly,
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyons’
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. _ Please
write for Tevised tariff card.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims. penses. ciation. Funds.
T15T.’2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 ) s 7
Aid to Industrial Department, 12,000 ] 8yu ’
’lO.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
15.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
’20.. 5,634,997 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,30-0,484
’22.. 6,225,479 3,210,194 626,422 235,525 2,153,338
’23.. 6,579,192 3,450,862 665,855 291,286 2,171,189
’24.. 7,066,013 3,475,869 703,097 83,251 2,803,795
’25.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206 112,880 3,015,579
’26.. 7,911,325 3,808,764 748,221 125,144 3,229,196
’27.. 8,429,228 4,209,829 799,365 51,902 3,368,132
’28.. 8,872,654 4.383,268 842,804 58,901 3,587,681
’29.. 9,320,824 4,505,820 984,608 238,356 3,592,040
’30.. 9,652,433 4,800,554 1,008,756 471,472
Provision for taxation, £237,635 j 6 ’ ’
This is Australia’s greatest life office. Its
development was retarded last year by the
contraction of incomes generally, growth in
unemployment and stinging increases in taxa-
tion ; and, of course, bonuses were less cor-
pulent. The slip in the amount of new busi-
ness written was £4,423.104 in the Ordinary
(£10,527,961) and £1,083,233 in the Indus-
trial branch (£3,300,683). Nevertheless
there was a spring of £450,345 in the income
from all sources (£11,827,612) ; interest,
etc. (£4,593,883), accounted for £291,774 of
the increase, and net premiums, etc.
(£7,233,730), for the balance.
After paying all exes, and legitimate
claims, including an extra £547,521 on
account of surrenders and bonuses cashed
(together £1,449,834), there was £4,810,045
of the year’s takings left, or £20,478 more
than in the previous term. But the outiook
is crowded with uncertainty, so the manage-
ment strengthened the reserve for contin-
gencies (now £1,250,000) by £453,646, struck
£81,873 off the book value of premises, etc.,
and set aside £270,000 for taxation. Thus
the £4,004,526 sent to the assurance funds
(raising them to £80,783,581) was £515,291
lighter than the previous year’s contribution.
There being no share capital the whole of
the profits belong to policy-holders. After
providing for interim bonuses, etc., the
actuary has figured the amounts available
for distribution in each department as
follows: —
Ordinary.* Industrial. Total.
1920.. 1,324,193 39,834 1,364,027
1923.. 1,967,457 115,931 2,083,388
1926.. 2,668,323 193,776 2,862,099
1927.. 2,867,022 203,491 3,070,513
1928.. 3,005,538 230,291 3,235,829
1929.. 2,941,005 211,584 3,152,589
1930.. 2,849,656 226,578 3,076,234
♦Excluding interim bonuses.
The shrinkage in the Ordinary figures over
the last couple of years has been due to
the growth in taxation —£381,266 for 1930 as
against £148,140 in 1928 —and the substan-
tial allowance for contingencies, etc. Still,
the distribution was 51.8 p.c. of last year’s
premiums on participating policies as against
58.1 p.c., 1928; 52.9 p.c., 1924; 30.2 p.c-.,
1914-18.
Notwithstanding the bigger tax bill, exes,
made off with 2s. 2d. less in each £lOO of
last year’s Ordinary income: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905.. £8 15 6 p.c. 1925.. £9 14 6 p.c.
1910.. 8 7 1 „ 1926.. 9 9 1 „
1915.. 8 9 7 „ 1927.. 9 9 8 „
1920. . 9 17 3 „ 1928. . 9 10 0 „
1923.. 10 2 5 „ 1929. . 10 11 2 „
1924.. 9 19 0 „ 1930. . 10 9 0 „
The improvement was the result of savings
in overhead and a slightly better interest
return. Leaving taxes out of the reckoning,
exes, took 6.5 p.c. of the year’s income com-
pared with 7.5 p.c. in 1929 ; while new busi-
ness cost 70.5 p.c. of the first premiums,
which was about the same as for the previous
term. That is assuming that first premiums
are 10 times more expensive than renewals.
This, the favorable mortality experience
(52 p.c. of expectation last year), and the
comfortable margin between the rate of
interest which the office assumes the funds
will earn (3 p.c. in the Ordinary and 3| p.c.
in the Industrial branch) and that actually
realised (£5 ss. 7d. net on the mean funds
last year) are all very encouraging. But
further increases in taxation are talked of,
so it is by no means certain that bonuses
have reached their lowest level. But chief
danger lies in the possibility of inflation.
As inflation progressed the real value of
policies would diminish. That is to say,
those who had paid in solid premiums for
years would be paid out on maturity of their
policies in paper which might have very
small purchasing power.
The £83,216,172 which the society con-
trolled at Dec. 31 was invested in this way:
1929. p.e. 1930. p.c.
Public securities. £43,808,331 55.8 £44,540,778 53.5
Mortgages . . 19,374,350 24.7 20,805,413 25.0
Loans on policies 11,726,580 14.9 13,622,458 16.4
Premises .. 1,351,043 1.7 1,464,739 1.8
Other assets .. 2,252,697 2.9 2,782,784 3.3
The growth of £1,895,878 in loans on policies
is indicative of the times. New building
operations in Melbourne and Brisbane added
£113,696 net to the book value of premises;
they are in at a conservative figure.
The Industrial business has stepped along
in this way :
Industrial Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 830,709 68,326 253,515 508,868
1923.-1,118,109 138,902 299,250) „ ro
Written off, £21,222 j 658,785
1925. . 1,397,888 227,059 362,824 )
Written off, £lO,Bll ) <9/,104
1926. . 1,557,073 365,494 389,855 )
Written off, £15,302 j /80,48 A
1927. . 1,716,059 485,709 423,964 ) an „ , 70
Written off, £6007 j 800,8/9
1928. 583,292 455,849 ) R 7,
Written off, £6837 ) 801,6 ‘ ll5
1929. . 2,056,443 601,909 495,363 ) Q 97 777
Written off, £31,394 ) v&t.tit
1930. . 2,175,179 717,377 490,880 ]
Written off, £64,047 ) 870,510
Provision for taxation, £32,365 J
, Including £19,508 for fidelity guarantees, last
year’s net premium income (£1,562,072) was
£61,568 stronger, and interest, etc. (£494,370)
brought in an extra £57,169. Exes, made
off with 22.5 p.c. of the lot as against 25.2,
24.7, 25 and 25.9 p.c. back to 1926.
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.).
To Re- Nominal
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Dec., £ £ £ £
1921.. 62,195 3 p.c. = 1,234 60,961 800,095
Unexplained additions, £33,718 .. .. 833,813
1922.. 64,638 21 p.c. = 1,196 63,442 897,255
Cash distribution, 2s. per share, £41,127 856,128
1923.. 94,602 5 p.c. = 2,392 92,210 948,338
Cash distribution, 4s. per share, £79,906 868,43?
Unexplained additions, £10,786 .. 879,218
Reserves capitalised, £770,017 .. .. 109,201
1924.. 97,485 * = 86,083 11,402 120,603
Unexplained additions, £20,786 .. 141,389
1925.. 112,060 12 p.e. = 98,038 14,022 155,411
1926.. 121,010 14 „ ~ 114,379 6,631 162,042
1927.. 130,616 14 „ ~114,379 16,237 178,279
1928.. 131,188 14 „ „ 114,379 16,809 195,088
1929.. 130,021 14 „ ~114,379 15,642 210,730
1930.. 102,022 10£ „ „ 85,784 16,238 226,968
♦Div. at rate of 5 p.c. p.a. with 2s. bonus paid in
first half; 11 p.c. p.a. paid on increased capital
in second half.
This is the co. which led the way in the big
Carlton and United merger. Its extensively
traded pound shares reached 545. fid., their
highest point, in 1929. Prospects of largesse
became less promising, and the figure eased to
40s. 3d. early in 1930; it dropped to 19s.
on an oversold, nervous and generally _ de-
pressed market in September, but has since
firmed around 275. 9d. At that price the
return is 7.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The holdings of the co. and its subsidiary
in the C.U.B. are as follows :
C.U.B. Shares. Book Value.
Carlton .. . . 400,000 ords. £400,000
36,203 prefs. 45,254
Victoria .. ..• 167,500 ords. 167,-500
15,160 prefs. 18,950
What these and the co.’s other investments
turn in this next comparison shows: —
C.U.B. Vic. Co.’s
and Vic. Rents, Surplus
Co.’s Divs. Interest, etc. Profits.
1926.. £100,883 £27,821 £2366
1927.. 106,336 26,985 5446
1928.. 106,336 r 28,638 5493
1929.. 106,336 28,310 5121
1930.. 89,430 30,910 3532
Last year C.U.B. snipped 2\ p.c. off its
distribution, reducing it to 15 p.c.; thus
£16,906 less was received in divs. Repairs,
etc., added £12,104 to exes. (£21,850), and
the net result was 12.5 p.c. on capital as
against 15.9 p.c. for the previous term. On
the basis of last year’s n. and 1. figures
Carlton could still show a trifle more than
10 p.c. on its capital if the C.U.B. dropped
its distribution to 12 p.c.
For the 12 months to June 30, 1930,
C.U.B. netted 17 p.e. on its £1,950,000 of
capital as against 21.6, 22.8, 22.5 and 21
p.c. back to 1926. It bought a number of
hotel freeholds, thus adding £198,221 to the
book value of that item, and debtors’
balances increased by 117,528; it is the way
breweries both expand and anchor their turn-
over. The more or less liquid surplus was
no less than £1,269,362. Still, the trend of
rentals and property values is downward,
the debts problem has become more perplex-
ing, competition from the Richmond Brewery
has sharpened, unemployment has increased,
and the tax bill has grown prodigiously.
Carlton’s own finances are in good trim ;
1920. 1923. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital*. £41,987 £47,847 £816,992 £816,992
Debentures . . 284,160
Mortgages .. 4,908 —■ ~
Sundry creditors 1,166 1,060 3,721 10,045
Brewery freehold 90,000 90,000 90,000 90,000
Other freehold 147,554 56,508 58,189 58,189
Contracts of sale 120,746 96,147 20,049 12,255
Mortgages, etc. 13,112 73,660 226,186 243,132
Shares in other
cos. . . 678,698 649,115 705,412 701,09 a
♦lncludes calls paid in advance.
Originally the co. inherited £893,502 of debt
from the old Carlton and West End brew-
eries after the crash of the ’nineties, and
divs. were anchored at 3 p.c. until the slate
was cleaned. That was done in 1923; then
the old capital (£46,975) was lifted to
£816,992 by a gift issue, and a run of 14
p.c. divs. was paid.
The backing for the scrip, including the
co.’s proportion of C.U.B.’s visible lay-by,
is 355. 7d. in net tangibles.
Standard-Waygood, Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 26,750 Nil 26,750 49,690
Bonus to subscribers to new share issue,
paid in Wevmouth scrip, £23,760.. 73,450
1922.. 46,543 10 p.c. = 35,842 10,701 62.749
Reserves.
Goodwill shares cancelled, £lOO,OOO. . 37,251
1923.. 37,175 10 p.c. = 36,912 263 37,514
1924.. 37,501 10 „ „ 36,982 519 38,033
Recovered from Sydney Council, £16,447 54.480
1925.. 5,600 5 p.c. = 18,491 41,589
1926.. 10,982 24 „ „ 9,246 1,736 43,325
Added to reserves .. .. 11,205 54,530
1927.. 19,657 5 p.c. = 18,491 1,166 55,696
1928.. 29,158 74 „ „ 27,736 1,422 57,118
Plant written down £183,305 —7s. 9d.
struck off each share, balance ( £49,000)
taken from reserves. 2s. 3d. per share
returned in cash . . . . . . 17,118
1929.. 22,615 10 p.c. = 18,491 4,124 21,242
1930.. 9,720 5 „ „ 9,246 474 21,716
Loss.
1931.. 589 Nil 21,127
For the 15 years to the close of accounts in
1924 divs. averaged 10.8 p.c., sweetened with
10 p.c. of bonus scrip in 1920. But the Gov-
ernment failed to give the support promised,
and the heavy plant became a drag—it was
installed in 1921 at a cost of over £300,000
to manufacture turbo-alternators. So, a
little over two years ago, the Clyde works
were revalued on a 10 p.c. basis at £75,000
—they previously appeared at £258,305.
The accounts were squared by rubbing out
£40,000 of reserves and striking 7s. 9d. off
each £1 share. The working capital released
by closing down the big plant was used to
wipe out the debenture debt and return
2s. 3d. per share in cash. Capital was thus
cut in halves, reducing it £184,910.
Thereafter earnings depended mainly upon
the manufacture of electric-transformers and
switch-gear and divs. from the subsidiaries —
Lift Inspection and Insurance, Weymouth’s
and McCulla’s. With the change in the out-
look a trading loss of £589 was registered
last year. Also Weymouth’s and McCulla’s
went into liquidation. The last-named is
not expected to pay more than a few shil-
lings in the pound. Weymouth’s lias re-
turned 30s. per share, and may send along
a trifle more.
The money thus made available, together
with £18,847 of the cash holding at the pre-
vious balance and whatever reductions of
£15,557 in the book value of stocks and of
£21,145 in debtors’ balances brought in, was
practically all invested in Wilson and Co.’s
7 p.c. preferreds, bought in New York at
less than 50 dollars per 100-dollar share.
Wilson’s is one of the four big American
meat-packing concerns. The securities have
been transferred to a new subsidiary, Stan-
way, Ltd., which has been registered in the
F.M.S. and has a paid capital of £61,637 in
6s. Sd. shares, all held by the parent.
Here is as much as balance-sheet figures
tell:—
1924. 1927. 1930. 1931.
Capital . . £369,820 £369,820 £ 184,910 £184,910
Debentures . . 33,400 33,400 -
Liabilities* . . 67,965 31,464 37,903 26,689
Property and
plant . . 290,046 280,400 105,700 103,200
Stock & work 129,035 106,349 50,183 34,626
Book debts,
cash, etc... 56,173 76,515 63,892 23,900
Subsidiaries, etc. 70,944 45,607 34,000 7>,000
♦lncluding provision for taxation.
Investments comprise the Stanway scrip,
£1998 of sundry paper and 20,000 £1 shares
in the lift co. The latter holding appears
less a cash loan of £12 ; 635, which probably
accounts for the reduction in liabilities.
Capital is to be reduced to £123,273 in
184,910 shares of 13s. 4d. each by returning
6s. Bd. per share, either in Stanway scrip
or cash at the option of shareholders. The
Stanway scrip is to be listed, and, since any
divs. thereon will be paid in sterling, the
paper is selling privately at a small premium.
Standard-Waygood’s pound shares are
priced at 13s.‘ Allowing for the return of
capital, the market thus values the under-
taking at £58,555, or £86.106 less than its
book value on the basis of figures at March
31. The doubt is whether the plant can earn
a profit. Prospects in this respect ought to
improve as conditions become more settled.
Greater J. D. Williams Co. (Sydney).
To Re- Nomina]
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £
1920.. 18,764 10 p.c. 18,051 713 56,634
1921.. 22,394 5 „ „ 9,025 13,369 70,003
1922. . 7,101 6i „ „ 11,282 65,822
1923.. 7,142 6i „,, 11,282 61.682
1924.. 20,369 10 „ „ 18,051 2,318 64,000
1925.. 17,712 10 ~ „ 18,051 63,661
1926.. 17,426 10 ~ „ 18,051 63,036
Profit on sale shares, £l5OO .. 64,536
1927.. 18,382 10 p.c. = 18,051 331 64,867
1928.. 21,211 10 „ „ 21,341 64,737
1929.. 28,144 8 27,654 484 65,22/
1930.. 2,658 Nil 2,658 67,885
That is the first time since 1913, when this
co., Amalgamated, Spencer’s and West’s
merged their chief interests in Union
Theatres, which does the showing, and Aus-
tralasian Films, which does the hiring, that
shareholders have gone hungry. Profits
depend mainly upon the earnings of Union,
which has interests in all the States, and
over whose figures the curtain is kept drawn.
Encouraged by the rich harvests of the
boom years, and spurred by competition from
Hoyts, it adopted an elaborate building pro-
gramme, bought a string of suburban and
country theatres and installed talkie equip-
ment throughout. To help finance the outlay
it gathered £700,000 of fresh capital during
the last three years, raising the total to
£1,000,000.
Greater J.D.W. took £223,500 of the new
scrip, increasing its holding in Union to
£325,000. To do this it put out £216,523 of
its own paper, making paid capital £397,029.
and tacked £15,000 on to the mortgage—
£33,ooo at Dec. 27. Sundry creditors then
figured at £1025. The balance of the assets
comprised shares in Australasian Films.
£97,500; a theatre freehold and a trifle of
leasehold, £33,751; debentures and advances,
£40,021; book debts, etc., £5441.
Union had scarcely completed its elaborate
programme when the public was compelled
to curtail expenditure upon amusements, and
theatre admission prices had to be cut.
Though rents were reduced, letting space
dragged, and the weight of the outside debt
and special taxation made themselves felt.
So, despite drastic economies, both Union
and Australasian Films found it “impossible
to make any distribution” last year. To-
gether they sent along £24,830 in the previ-
ous term.
Hence Greater J.D.W.’s earnings- were
confined to interest and rents, as this next
comparison of p. and 1. figures shows:—
1924. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Rents .. ..£11,045 £8,468 £8,126 £8,309
Dividends . . . . 14,338 17,388 24,830
Interest . . . . 2,143 3,243 3,328 3,067
Total .. .. £27,526 £29,099 £36,284 £11,376
Exes, took £B7lB, leaving only £2658 net,
or a shade over a half of one per cent, on
capital as against 8.1, 9.9 and 10.1 p.c. for
the three preceding years.
Incidentally, Union has guaranteed the
div. on £600,000 of 8 p.c. pref. money in
two subsidiaries, which own the “State”
Theatres in Melbourne and Sydney. The
market, doubtful of the future of these ela-
borate picture houses, pays only ss. 6d. for
Williams’s pound shares, which fetched 255.
a couple of years ago.
McDowell’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
Towards
, Dividends Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1921*.. 5,274 8 p.c. 7 p.c. 4970 304 16,389
1922 . . 5,579 8 „ 5 ~ 5742 16,552
1923 . . 11,464 8 „ 7J „ 8284 3180 13.372
£26,100 of capital written off; goodwill
expelled and leases and other assets written
down. Reserves.
1924 . . 14,606 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,630 5,976 9,297
1925 . . 27,760 8 p.c. 124 p.c. 10,588 17,172 26,469
1926 . . 23,668. 8 „ 124 „ 18,902 4,766 31,235
1927 . . 40,127 8 „ 15 „ 27,539 12,588 43,823
1928 . . 48,207 8 „ 15 „ 27,681 20,526 64,349
Share premiums, £15,767 .. • ■ 80,117
1929 .. 62,757 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 37,141 25,616 105,733
1930 .. 55,568 8 „ 15 „ 37,141 18,427 124.160
1931 .. 25,911 8 „ 10 ~ 25,028 883 125,043
♦Eight months.
A very satisfactory showing considering
the circumstances. Spending was restricted,
prices eased, cuts had to be made in some
lines to ensure quick clearances, and taxa-
tion, exchange and the tariff swelled out-
goings. After taking stocks into account at
£21,817 below the 1930 figure, the slip in
gross profits (£192,032) was £72,690.. Exes.
(£166,121, including £15,000 set aside for
taxation) were got back £43,033; still the net
result was less than half the previous year’s.
Nevertheless, after handing the prefs. their
£BOO, there was enough to show 10.3 p.c. on
the £242,272 of ord. capital compared with
20.8, 25.5, 26.2 and 22 p.c. back to 1927.
The 5 p.c. bonus sent out in each of the
four preceding years was dropped,- leaving
the div. at 10 p.c., and visibly there was
little to spare.
Though uncertainty as to the future has
aggravated the curtailment of spending, it
may be a while before turnover and profits
(Continued on page 16.)


I o
o
m
Ml MEDIUM strengthM
W.D.&H.O.WIUS. II
(Australia)!!*Sydney. | hi
10-6"
20-I'-
Also in Boxes of
50 and 100: in
Tins of 50—and
Oval Heavy-
weights.
THERE are such differences in
hands, differences which give
definite indications of a person’s
character and capabilities, that, just
by looking at his hands some
people could tell you this golfer’s
handicap. But although in shape and
size a good golfer’s hands may be
very different from a bad golfer s,
they have at least one thing in com-
mon when they hold a “Capstan/'
When balls are bunkered and shots
go wrong there’s a satisfying
something in “Capstans" which ten
golfers out of every eleven rely
on to soothe their nerves.
Ili
Made in Your Own Country at the Garden Factory
“•Raleigh Park—by
W D. & H, O WILLS (Australia) Ltd,
(29i


If Inflation
Comes
What stocks or property would
stand up best in the event of
inflation?
What can be done with money
to make it reasonably safe?
What would become of investors
in life-assurance policies?
Are there any signs of a world
recovery?
These and many other problems
of most vital interest are dis-
cussed in “The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly.”
APRIL NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEB ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Tanks for the storage of any type
of liquid, possess unique advantages over metal
tanks. For instance, they are absolutely non-corrosive
—they are equally efficient for storing water, wine,
the strongest acids or alkalies. They are simple to
erect and will give many years of thoroughly satis-
factory service. Write for full details to the Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Foots-
cray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard oi Quality throughout tho Empire «
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Make a Will
and appoint as your Executor a corporate
body which for forty-four years has acted in
the capacity of Executor, Administrator,
Trustee, Attorney, etc., which can never die
or leave the country, and which offers the
utmost security for the funds of your Estate,
viz., Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION £40,540,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H^V^Douglass^Manager^
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking 1 Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geenral banking buisness.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc..
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
show very much improvement. Results
will largely depend upon shrewd buying,
clean stocks, the soundness of debtors’
balances and the extent to which overhead
can be held back. The figures suggest that
the management is alive to the problems.
Trading is mainly for cash, the tendency of
business to concentrate on the Post Office
block, where the co.’s premises are, is a
help, and the floating debt is light.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £88,309 £247,280 £252,272 £252,272
Mortgages . . 165,500 163,500 161,500
Sundry creditors 456 32,060 24,920 15,724
Freeholds, lease-
investment if" .IS } 329 > 922 350 > 080 354 > 388
Stock . . 58,800 130,353 145,359 123,542
Book debts . . 23,078 28,380 23,284 18,014
Cash, etc. .. 14,754 103,098 86,952 86,387
Last year alterations to the bulk store added
£4BOB to the book value of freeholds, etc.
The etcetera includes a trifle of leasehold and
an unspecified holding in Waters’s Cash
Order Co. The reduction in stocks and book
debts enabled £9196 to be chipped off the
amount coming to sundry creditors, and
£2OOO off the mortgage. However, the finan-
cial position slipped £16,456, leaving the
more or less liquid surplus at £50,719.
In 1923 the co. wrote off £26,100 of capi-
tal, rubbed goodwill out of the accounts and
put book values on a sounder basis. Then
it bought part of the freehold of its Georgc-
street premises, together with the freehold
and business of its old friend and neighbor,
W. T. Waters. Later the freehold was
extended by the purchase of Denison House.
Goodwill was thus anchored and enhanced.
A couple of years ago the pound ords.
fetched 455. 6d. on the market; they are now
at 28s. Allowing for the final div. the
return at the lower figure is 9.1 p.c. so long
as the 10 p.c. div. continues, or 7.3 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 31s. Id.
in net tangibles. The 8 p.c. cum. prefs.—
there are 10.000 of them—seldom appear
on ’Change.
Australian Sugar Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 27,890 20 p.e. = 27,722 168 5,916
1925.. 18,233 12 „ „ 16,633 1600 7,516
1926.. 16,873 12 ~ „ 16,633 240 7,756
1927.. 26,883 12 „ „ 24,950 1933 9,689
1928.. 27,435 12 „ „ 24,950 2485 12,174
1929.. 27,536 12 „ „ 24,950 2586 14,760
1930.. 28,640 12 „ „ 24,950 3690 18,450
This co., which is Howard Smith-controlled,
owns and operates the Mourilyan mill, South
Johnstone district, North Queensland. It
paid a run of 20 p.c. divs. to the close of
accounts in 1924; then, following an increase
in the award price for cane and a reduc-
tion in the base price of raws, the rate was
dropped to 12 p.c. It has remained steady
since, despite variations in crushings, due
fo seasonal conditions, and fluctuations in
the average price received for raws, owing
to the dulness in the world’s sugar markets,
where the export surplus (about 40 p.c. of
the crop) is sold.
Now consider these figures :
Crush- Crush-
ings, Average ings, Average
Tons. Price Raw. Tons. Price Raw.
1923.. 70,209 1927.. 135,473 £24 10 4
1924. .105,315 1928. .164,882 22 0 4
1925. .120,632 1929. .161,794 20 17 11
1926. .153,028 £l9 10 7 1930.. 152,287 20 8 2
Compared with 1928 last year’s crushing
was 12,595 tons lighter, and the raws aver-
aged 325. 2d. per ton less. Still, the board
was able to exhibit £1205 more profit than
it did two years ago. That was mainly
because of better sugar recoveries and sav-
ings in overhead following increased plant
efficiency. The average recovery last year
was one ton of 94 n.t. sugar from 6.44
tons of cane, which is claimed to be a world’s
record. The year’s out-turn of raws (23,631
tons) was the best yet.
This and the fact that the embargo on
imported sugar is to be renewed for another
five years, and that the old agreement in
respect of prices is to continue until 1934,
when it will come up for review again, are
very heartening.
Since 1923 the quantity of cane put
through the rollers has more than doubled,
and additions and improvements to fixed
assets have been reported annually. In
1927 shareholders welcomed the opportunity
to put up £69,305 of fresh capital to help
pay for a new 6ft. crushing mill. Apart
from that the outlay on additions, etc., has
been financed largely out of revenue, and then
the assets have been substantially written
down from the same source.
The position as balance-sheet figures dis-
close it is as follows: —
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £138,610 £207,915 £207,915 £207,915
Liabilities .. 99,974 42,757 32,138 70,458
Land, plant, etc. 206,597 180,652 165,674 181,854
Stores . . 29,567 ' 24,980 25,261 17,442
Debtors . . 12,292 47,547 69,294 101,048
Investments .. 5,960 7,060 7,060 7,100
Cash.. .. 15,081 1,854
Over the four years to the close of accounts
in 1929, £40,923 more was written off than
was spent on fixed assets, and the-improve-
ment in the liquid position, excluding stores,
amounted to £125,938. To add £16,180 to
the book value of plant, etc., and carry an
extra £31,754 of book debts, the board went
outside for a further £38,320 last year. The
contraction in the more or less liquid surplus
(£39,544) was only £4672.
The market, doubtful as to the future,
prices the pound shares at 235., the return
at that 1 figure being 10.4 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing amounts to 21s.
9d. in net tangibles.
The Anglo-Persian Oil Co.’s report to the
Commonwealth Government on prospects
in New Guinea and Papua fills four large
quarto volumes of text and two of maps.
The price of the lot is £lO, but copies are
being sent to the public libraries in each
State and to the Administrators of New
Guinea and Papua.
One of the most interesting portions of
the work is a critical study of the geology
and oil prospects of the two territories by
B. N. K. Wyllic. Generally this is pessi-
mistic. Much of the importance hitherto
attached to anticlinal structure is discounted,
and drilling, the author considers, should
not be undertaken until geological research,
including laboratory work, has thoroughly
checked structural data over a wide area.
At Popo, where a lot of money was spent
on test bores, and where running mudstone
and lost tools, etc., caused much trouble,
the chances of anything more than slight
oil-production are said to be poor. This
opinion, however, was not shared by G. H. V.
Stanley, who for some years was on the staff
of Anglo-Persian in New Guinea, and other
geologists who examined the area. Regions
considered to be worth investigation are (1)
the country around Nalopo Island in the
Purari River, (2) the southern coast of
Goodenough Bay and the Ruaba Valley, (3)
the middle Ramu valley around the Arumene
Hills, and (4) the country on the south side
of the Torricelli range.
Mr. Wyllie’s conclusions, says Dr. Wool-
nough, the Commonwealth geological ad-
viser, are based upon sharply defined theory
which has not yet been proved to the 'hilt.
* * h= *
After much unimpressive talk about a
great open cut, the directors of the old Mt.
Morgan Gold Mining Co. turned to the
realisation of the assets as the only way of
making a decent ending. That was in
August, 1927. In a little over three years
the lot was sold for £1,398,369; interest,
rents, etc., brought in a further £71.938,
making total receipts £1,470,307. Liquida-
tion costs, including the clean-up at the
mine, were £208,958, and £67,599 was used
to satisfy Creditors’ claims, leaving £1,193,750,
or 235. per pound of paid capital, for
shareholders. At March 15 there was still
£lll5 in the distribution account awaiting
presentation of warrants. However, the co.
will be formally dissolved next week, and a
small balance of about £4OO is to be handed
over to the Walter and Eliza Hall Trust.
* * * *
Out Mineral Hill way. about 40 miles nor’-
west of Condobolin (N.S.W.), prospectors
have hit upon what looks like a very promis-
ing silver-lead deposit. A few weeks ago a
new shaft was started on a big gossan out-
crop, and at 10ft. ore carrying from 45 p.c.
to 70 p.c. lead and 4dwt. gold, but very little
silver, was met with. This turned out to be
the capping of a lode carrying less lead but
higher silver and gold values. At 50ft. the
shaft was still in mineralised stone, free from
country rock. However, a lot of work has
to be done before any worth-while idea
can be formed as to the extent and value
of the deposit. Near by another lode, splashed
with the blue and green carbonates of copper
and carrying silver, has been sunk on a few
feet.
* * * *
The State coalmine at Wonthaggi, Vic.,
is one of the very few Government enter-
prises which have not been burdens on the
taxpayer. After striking off £35.000 for
depreciation, sending £6428 to the sinking
fund and £50,000 to consolidated revenue,
it showed a surplus of £76,205 on a loan
capital of £82,875 at June 30 last. This
has been made possible by the fact that, hav-
ing no dividends to pay, the management has
been able, during the last 20 years, to redeem
£167,125 of loan capital, on which only a
nominal rate of interest (4 p.c.) is charged.
On the total loan capital raised (£250,000)
the average net surplus over the last 20
years is 9.4 p.c.; that is including the
redemption and interest payments.
At the close of last accounts, plant, etc.,
figured at £82,385. There was £6710 coming
to trade creditors, and more or less liquids
totalled £363,291. That includes deprecia-
tion fund investments totalling £291,334,
which it is proposed to spend on develop-
ment during the next few years.
* * * *
The old Deloraine mine, midway between
Williamstown and Kersbrook (S.A.), is
being opened up again. Bulk crushings aggre-
gating 523 tons of stone recently gave results
varying from half an ounce to one ounce of
gold per ton. The old workings produced
£BO,OOO worth of gold, and 13s. per ss. share
was paid in divs. during the half-dozen years
to 191 G. Values eased, there was no money
for prospecting and the property was aban-
doned. It was taken up again in 1928, and
a new shaft struck a fresh lode, but soakage
from the old workings caused trouble; these
are being dewatered. For the last six months
earnings have covered exes.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
Interest in the Lefroy field (Tas.), which
produced over £BOO,OOO worth of gold in its
palmy days, is being revived. The reefs
nearly all petered out at about 400 ft.
It is claimed that the old Windermere reef
has been picked up, and a good deal of
fossicking is going on in the vicinity of other
abandoned workings. In other parts of the
Speck a fair amount of alluvial is being got.
* * * *
Westralia’s- gold output for the first quar-
ter of 1931 was 99,7240 z., an increase of
15,8970 z. over the return for final quarter
last year. Prospecting is expected to
liven during the winter. This and the
Wiluna and Lake View and Star outputs
should further lift the current quarter’s
figures.
* * * *
Carl O. Linberg, a member of the Ameri-
can advisory committee of New Consolidated
Goldfields, after overhauling the work done
at Wiluna (W.A.), has confirmed official
estimates of tonnages, values and profits, and
describes the organisation and plant as
thoroughly efficient. On the southern leases
the east and west lodes, which are about
700 ft. apart, are connected with the new
main five-compartment shaft by crosscuts.
The shaft has been sunk to 280 ft. Ore re-
serves are conservatively figured at million
tons, the average assay value of which is
395. per ton. For milling purposes the
value has been taken at 355., and net profit
is put at 10s. per ton, or £240,000 p.a. on a
monthly crushing of 40,000 tons. That is
leaving exchange and the gold bonus out of
the reckoning. For small additional expendi-
ture the capacity of the plant can be in-
creased to 50,000 tons monthly. The co.
also has valuable deposits on the northern
end of the property in its Happy Jack and
Bulletin leases.
H: ifc ❖ *
Kalgoorlie has unbounded faith in the
future of the north end of its field. Lots of
energy and cash have been spent in trying to
locate the good things believed to be there.
Broken Hill Prop., aided by Dick Wilson,
Assistant State Mining Engineer, is the
latest to embark on a hunt for the hidden
treasure.
sjs He ijs
Four miles north of the Larkinville
(W.A.) alluvial field a big lode has been
found and traced near the surface for over
half a mile. First samples averaged 15dwt.
* ❖ *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is the Commonwealth Government liable
for full interest payments on N. S. Wales
Government stocks? (2) If so, what would
he the effect of Mr. Lang's Interest Reduc-
tion Bill? —2923.
(1) Yes. It paid the interest due by
N. S. Wales to British bondholders, and has
sued the State for recovery of the amount
involved. (2) Sydney Stock Exchange coun-
sel’s opinion on the question is that the
Commonwealth is liable to pay the whole of
the interest at the contract rate.
Wha,t are the present values of Aus-
tralian Investment Trust shares, and pros-
pects of scrip as an investment? —2497.
Shares not listed on ’Change. In its first
year the co. paid 5 p.c. Last term a loss of
£5144 was shown, and on January 21
it was estimated that securities had depre-
ciated by £78,435. At that date about 7s. 7d.
per £1 of paid capital had been wiped out by
the fall in market value of securities, etc.,
and another 2s. 3d. was represented by pre-
liminary exes, and p. and 1. debit. Prospects
depend on general trend of values and class
of securities held, details of which are not
disclosed. See “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for
May, 1931.
What was the percentage of mortality to
expectancy (last available year) in (1)
A.M.P., (2) National Mutual, (3) T. and
G. P—-2563.
(1) Ordinary, 52 p.c. (2) About 60 p.c.
(3) Three years to 1928: Temperance Sec-
tion, 35.6 p.c.; General, 59.7 p.c.
Re Pacific Tobacco Industries (Austra-
lasia.), Ltd. — (1) How many shares have
been sold? (2) What capital is required
before operations can commence? (3) Are
the shares genuine? (4) Where is the capi-
tal to be spent? (5) Are the shares worth
buying? (6) Is there a regular market for
the scrip? —262s.
(1) About 50,000, the co. states. (2)
No specified amount. (3) Yes, but the co.
seems to have paid too much (£25 an acre)
for land in M.L. —£23,925 of the considera-
tion was due in cash. (4) In Australia and
M.L., but whether manufacturing will ever
commence will depend on how many shares
can be sold; at present they are hard to
place, (5) Doubtful; wait, for next balance-
sheet. (6) No.
(1) What is aver aye value of gold on
N.B.W. and Queensland beaches? (2) Does
the gold exist at depth? (3) Cost and con-
ditions of lease? (4) Are the black sands of
New Guinea and Papua richer in gold than
the Australian beaches? '5) What arc-
leasing conditions, etc., in New Guinea? —
2976.
(1) Systematic prospecting has not deter-
mined the average gold content. Generally
values are low, possibly only a few grains
to the ton, but where natural concentration
has been effected rich patches occur. (2)
The depth to water-level ranges from one to
about ten feet; below this sands have not
been prospected. (3) Conditions as to
special leases, such as beach areas, are fixed
by proclamation in N. S. Wales; they gener-
ally conform to those applicable to dredging
leases. A deposit of £lO is required with
each application. Write the Department of
Mines, Sydney and Brisbane, for full parti-
culars. (4) Information is not available.
(5) Write Department of Home Affairs and
Territories, Canberra.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
11.A.8.: Eagle, Star and British Dominions.
Melbourne (Australian) board: W. Angliss, Thos.
Luxton, K. A. Henderson, George Russell,
Ambrose Pratt, J. Hume-Cook. Sydney local
board: J. J. Rouse, R. Mitchell, E. Keep, A. Me-
Elhone, R. E. Denison. Central Insurance Co.
N. S. Wales management: J. H. Gosling, 0. Har-
grave, N. G. M. Dunlop. Melbourne: T. M. Douglas,
manager... .L.F.G. (Gizo, Solomon Is.): Protectorate
money would eventually be affected by Common-
wealth inflation; anyway, there is very little of it
in circulation. Gold is at a high premium ; it
would be nearly as cheap to send money to England.
It would cost £lB 12s. 6d. p.c. to transmit to N.Z.
There is no certain w r ay of protecting your savings
without paying heavily. Investment in Kandos
Cement, B. H. Pty., Adelaide S.S. or other industrial
stocks offers a measure of protection, besides a chance
of capital appreciation. .. .M.H.: A sound Canadian
office.... Munya: Answered 8/4/’3l. Interim div. 71
p.c. p.a.....G.L.: A.M.P., M.L.C., National Mutual,
City Mutual... .K. 8.: (1) and (3) See B. 12/11/’3O.
One of the soundest building banks; conditions in
Brisbane are better than in southern capitals. (2)
21s. (4) Better hold R.J.O’R.: (1) Quite sound.
(2) Prospects satisfactory... .C-J-S.S.: Citizens and
Graziers and Commonwealth Life sold their businesses
for scrip to Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated) in
1926. See “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for review latest
accounts.


Still Challenging
W/19M
n
J
/
a
VV‘
v- ’
* "V.
EW*-. ' -
v
VS.
e
Challenges All Comers for
Value, Economy and Year
Around Performance!
What can this Essex do? What is its
right of Challenge with all competitors
for Value, Economy and continued
Performance? These were the ques-
tions that were raised when the Essex
Challenge was presented to the world.
Yet all Essex claims were proved and
can be proved again. The thousands
of Essex Challengers that have been
sold in Australia tell their own story
of that rare combination of sustained
performance, low cost of upkeep and
genuine quality of workmanship.
To satisfy yourself on these points and
to investigate the economy of our pur-
chase terms, is to realise the real
superiority of the Essex Challenger.
Telephone us or call up your nearest
Hudson-Essex Dealer for a personal
demonstration of Challenger qualities.
That demonstration will clear away all
doubts and will lead you to a realisa-
tion of the Essex right to Challenge.
Ten minutes behind the wheel will convince you
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
136 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Queensland:
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia:
MOTORS, LTD.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Australia:
MORTLQCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmania:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
83 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
Hhe NEW .
er


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Sat.) “The Duchess of Dantzic’’
Criterion “The First Mrs. Fraser”
State ....................... Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Gondoliers”
Comedy “On the Spot”
State Movies and Talkies
•
THE OTHER MRS. FRASER.
A CURTAINrRAISER IN ONE
OVERTURE.
Scene: Criterion Theatre, Sydney.
Time: 8 p.m.
(By way of a change, this curtain-raiser
to “The First Mrs. Fraser” is enacted not
on the stage but in the third row of the
dress-circle. As it progresses the theatre is
steadily filling, but that is unimportant. The
“The music and the voices are clearly heard
together.”
point to be borne in mind is that throughout
the orchestra is playing an overture. The
voices of the two characters are pitched in a
key a shade higher but not high enough to
outdo the music. The music and the voices
are clearly heard together. This curtain-
raiser, indeed, would be better entitled, after
the pattern of Miss Edith Sitwell, “Trio
for Two Old Hens and an Orchestra.”)
Mrs. FRASER (continuing a conversation
apparently begun elsewhere) : Yes, and so
when Dicky you know, that’s Harold’s boy
they’ve been in Melbourne on a holiday—
when Dicky wrote up and said isn’t the
orchestra just lovely I do love this piece
they’re playing. When Dicky wrote up and
said they had been to see that’s Mr. Mort
just coming in no over there the under-
takers you know. Well, when Dicky wrote
up and said that he and Hazel had been to
see a play called “The First Mrs. Fraser”
and that I’d love it, I simply couldn’t sit
still waiting for it to come up. I said I
don’t care much for that style of a dress
no the one over there fitting her like an
onion peeling do you? If a daughter of
mine wore a dress like that I’d tell her
about At. What was I saying? Oh yes.
I said I haven’t been to anything but a
movie for ages, and I owe Elizabeth Bones
a shout to something, so I came straight
over, and here we are, dear!
Mrs. BONES : Isn’t it funny your name
being Mrs. Fraser, too. Quite a coincidence!
Mrs. FRASER: Just what I said myself,
dear. And that’s only half of it don’t you
like the orchestra when they play those
twiddly bits. I think it’s simply ravishing!
There’s another coincidence for you! You
know, we were playing bridge up at the Wil-
liamses the other night, and the wireless was
playing this same piece all through a whole
rubber, but you couldn’t hear it the way
you can here because that Mrs. Mountstreet
I don’t know whether you know her but I’ve
never met her equal not in the whole of my
life no wonder some women have a reputa-
tion for being talkers I’ve never yet heard
“Mr. and Mrs. Fraser’s children, that is
the first ones.”
(Roger Barry; John Wood.)
anyone to talk like her you know rambling
on and on about nothing , -nothing whatever!
It was simply useless trying to listen to
her and the wireless at the same time. Thank
goodness she wasn’t my partner! Of course,
Beth, I had myself to blame. Yes, I really
started it when I told her that you and I
were shouting ourselves to “The First Mrs.
Fraser.” “Oh my dear Mrs. Fraser,” she
said, you know the way she talks, “how
positively dazzling, and the leading part in
it is Mrs. Fraser and her name’s Janet,
too !”
Mrs. BONES (turning to the programme) :
And so it is, dear! Look: “Janet Fraser—
Ethel Morrison.” Isn’t that a coincidence!
Mrs. FRASEIi (as the orchestra pauses at
the end of a movement ) : Wasn’t that lovely
oh it’s going on don’t they play well? And
then, Beth, she would go on and tell us all
about it. I hate people.... Oh, there’s Mrs.
Le Roberts! ( She catches Mrs. Le Roberts's
eye, smiles nicely and bobs ha- head slightly).
You know (as Mrs. Le Roberts turns her
neatly knobbed backbone), she used to be
Jessie McLean they say there was something
funny about him marrying her like that only
two days before her mother came back from
New Zealand.... Ooli I got a twinge in my
foot it’s the weather you know, dear. Well, as
I was saying she went on and told us every-
thing about it, everything! I loathe people
who do that it simply spoils the play for
everyone else I’ve always said. It appears
she read it in a book she got out of the
library she said she never went to plays it
was easier to read them at home without
having to put up with people cackling all
round you which was very ripe coming from
her I thought. She simply never stops talk-
ing! As John said to me afterwards you
can’t get in a word edgeways with her. It
put him right off his game. Twice in one
hand he led right into her suit you’d have
thought he’d done it on purpose only he
simply loathes the sight of her and as I
was saying I think there’s going to be a
big crowd to-night, don’t you? They’re
simply pouring in now.
Mrs. BONES: Yes, it’s lovely.
Mrs. FRASER: Well, she said that the
play is all about a man, Mr. Fraser, who’s
separated from his wife having the front to
come back to her and ask her advice about
an affair that he’s having with another
woman ! Well, John tried to break in and
say that no man on earth would do that
unless he'd suddenly gone mad, but did that
stop her? Not a bit. She said that it
mightn’t happen in real life perhaps but in
a play it could happen because there was a
difference between life and reality you’re
not feeling cold are you dear? Keep your
coat up round your shoulders. Well, she
said do you like peacock-blue with that
colored hair? Yes the one in the second
row near the post. What was I up to? Oh
yes about how it works out in the play.
Well it seems that the father, James Fraser,
is not living with this other woman. He’s
married to her and now she wants a divorce
so that she can marry somebody else and
so he comes back to his first wife, that’s
the one the play’s named after, to get her
advice. It seems this other man she wants
to marry, I mean the second Mrs. Fraser,
is a Lord and an imbecile, but he, that is
Mr. Fraser, doesn’t want another divorce be-
cause he’s been told he couldn’t appear in
the Honors List and the Divorce List in the
same year. Anyway there are sons. Mr. and
Mrs. Fraser’s children, that is the first ones,
and one of them upsets the interview somehow
and Mr. Fraser goes out and then who should
come in but the second Mrs. Fraser one of
those flighty young things as far as I could
see something like that Mrs. Mountstreet
woman herself and she was proud to be
like her, too. That’s a nice part they’re
playing now don’t you think so and then
this second Mrs. Fraser whose name’s Elsie
lias the front to say that how even in these
times it isn’t usual for one wife to call on
the other wife ooh my foot again ! What
was I saying? Oh yes the poor first Mrs.
Fraser says she’s known it to be done and
then this Elsie one says: “Oh, so have I.
I know a girl who took the first wife up
to her bedroom and showed her some of her
wedding presents. I must say I thought
that was a bit thick.” A bit thick, mind
you, doar! I should say so. Oh, there’s
the orchestra finishing. I could listen to
that piece all night. Well ( hurriedly , as the
curtain begins to rise) they all get out of
it and it finishes up with the two first Mr.
and Mrs. Frasers all fixed up to go and get
married to one another again. ( She pauses
slightly, then turns sharply to Mrs. Bones.)
Beth oh dear I think I forgot to turn the
gas off!
Mrs. BONES : You forgot to
Mrs. FRASER ( reassuringly ) : Oh, no. I
remember now. No, I didn’t forget to turn
it off.
' A VOICE ( very distinctly, from the sixth
row behind) : No! By Heavens you did
not!
(The orchestra, having been silenced at
last, the play now proceeds.)
* * *
Joseph Hislop and Isadore Goodman con-
tinue to respectable business at Sydney
Town Hall. It struck this Showman at
their second concert that if the great com-
bination of Stiffy and Mo was still in exist-
ence this other pair could be starred as Issy
and Hissy by way of adding real variety
to a variety bill. They are as austere as
statues. Hislop took the brake off slightly
in Stanford’s galloping ballad “Windy
Nights,” and rather more in Cyril Scott’s
scoring of the grand old ballad “Lord Ran-
dall,” but mostly he sang as if someone in
the back seats had done him an injury. It
wasn’t that he declined to beef it out, but
that he seemed to be straining not to let
it out at all. He sang some good songs as
if they were secrets, and he does not appear
to have a sufficient sense of humor to quite
get away with the more piffling things that
bulk rather big in his repertoire. Singing
“Girometta” and “The Fairy Tree” he was
delightful, and his personality became stead-
ily more expansive as the night wore on.
At the end he was smiling, and a typically
avaricious Town Hall crowd was shame-
lessly demanding more. It demanded more
of Goodman, too, though he didn’t smile at
all. A thin, pale, dark pianist, he sat further
than most do from his instrument and played
it like one intent upon doing something. He
attacks wdiere, for the most part, his spar-
ring partner merely sang a string of songs.
K x .
One of the most pathetic spectacles around
Sydney last week was comedian Hector St.
Clair. He was trying to do a job a size or
two too big for him—hold the attention of
a Haymarket audience for the whole even-
ing almost single-handed. There were others
on the bill, a couple of dozen or more, but
they ranged from plain crude to just about
so-so. It devolved upon Hector to make
the night’s entertainment, and he responded
even better than those who fancy him as a
jolly good little comedian might have ex-
pected. His chief trouble at. the moment is
that nearly all his gags are as familiar us
his wig; given a brand-new outfit of jokes
and he’d knock the Depresh endways, or
make it grunt at least. On Saturday he
received badly needed, and efficient, assist-
ance, in the shape of Mo, and there wasn't
even standing room 20 minutes before cur-
tain-rise.
* * *
“Why Men Leave Home,” at Melbourne
Bijou, would earn all the financial support
it could get if it were more within the
range of Frank Neil’s art. It is true that
the usual twin beds turn up in the second
act, that the Long Island bedroom of
Louise Lovely Fifi Morgan is fitted up
regardless of expense, and that the jahmie
Fifi wears is the last word in the sartorial
expert’s art; but the situation is so obviously
one in which it would be a faux pas for
Neil’s trousers to come off that that gentle-
man is sadly crippled in his style. He makes
up for it by delivering a long denunciation
of his wife for her frivolous reluctance to
add a twig to his family tree. He delivers
it with the intensity of a temperance re-
former apostrophising the town drunk; and
when he leaves Fifi for Doris the situa-
tion is too tragic for words. Doris turns
out to be a charming child (Joan Maguire)
of eight whom he brings into the house in
order to demonstrate what a splendid father
he would make if only Fifi would co-operate.
This touching spectacle immediately con-
vinces not only Fifi but all the other wives
and husbands that it is their duty to help
Uncle Sam’s vital statistics. Unfortunately
Avery H'opwood’s tract errs in overstatement
on both sides, which is a way with tracts.
“If Nina,” says one character, “ever had a
child she would have to have it at a house
party or on an ocean liner.” Women like
that are not likely to be converted into
ideal mothers overnight.
The cast of “ Men Leave Home” is like
the curate’s head—sound in parts. Dorothy
Stanward, Field Fisher and Marion Marcus
Clarke are very good indeed. Arundel J.
Nixon, whom this paper didn’t like in an
alleged comic r6lc last week, does well this
time in a straight one. Of Miss Stanward
it may be said that her ingenuous style
and the astute way she uses inflexions of
the voice are the best things in the show.
* * *
“On Saturday night at Melbourne Town
Hall a magnificent production of ‘Oedipus
Rex’ was preceded by the curtain-raiser
‘Twelfth Night,’ Henry Irving, Edmund
Kean and Beerbohm Tree taking the leading
rbles, with Duse, Sarah Bernhardt, Ellen
Terry, Mrs. Siddons and Ruth Chatterton
playing opposite ; the direction was by Herr
Reinhardt and the scenery by Gordon Craig.”
The above is an attempt to state Mischa
Levitzki’s concert in terms of the legitimate
“Having the front to come back and ask
her advice.”
(Ethel Morrison; J. B. Rowe.)
stage. Alas ! it only serves to demonstrate
that music-lovers have all the luck—or dis-
crimination. They feed like epicures off
Doulton ware; the drama addict, by com-
parison, is served tripe in a pig’s trough.
Take Levitzki’s programme. Toccata and
Fugue in. D minor, by Bach. An almost
perfect work of art, its beauty as near fault-
lessness as a Venus by Praxiteles. Sonata
in F minor, op. 57 (“Appassionata”), by
Beethoven. The supreme musical drama of
all time. The problem is clearly stated and
fully worked out; there are no concessions to
the censor, nor are there any lubricities aimed
at the front stalls; all is as frank and natural
and naked as a tree or a bird or a Sliaks-
pearean love scene. And the final curtain is
magnificent.
As for the cast, it is one of the best, if
not the best, that could be brought together
anywhere in the world. It comprises five
digits on Levitzki’s left hand and five digits
on his right. Then there are two arms with
muscles like steel and a pair of shoulders
of exceptional strength. There is also a
brain encased in a bald head and a round
pudgy face which is in charge of the pro-
ducing, and there are a pair of legs which
have a small walking-on part, also a back
whose chief function is to bow. On Satur-
day night the members of this cast played
with complete accord. None of them forgot
their lines or missed their cues or played
to the gallery when they should have been
immersed in their part, and none of them
sulked because the manager had put them
in the second dressing-room instead of the
star’s; and their versatility was truly re-
markable. They portrayed the storms of Beet-
hoven’s subjective soul, the wit and elegance
of Chopin’s “Butterfly” etude, the febrile
excitement of Liszt’s Hungarian Rhapsody,
No. 6, and made no bones about it. As
already remarked, music-lovers have all the
luck.
P.S. (by the Dramatic Critic) : Still, the
drama addicts get the bedroom scenes.
* * *
The only quarrel present critic lias with
the Misses Rayner, of the Sydney Theatre
of Youth co., which has opened a six-weeks’
season at Scots’ Hall, Melbourne, concerns
a remark on the programme to the effect
that they do not rely for their appeal on
realism. Their show is true realism. The
Misses Rayner can put more realism into
a 'gesture than the Laskys and Zukors get
into a billion-dollar spectacle for which the
entire American air force, half the army
and most of the navy have been requisi-
tioned, with Niagara Falls and Yosemite
Valley thrown in for makeweight. The job
of the T.O.Y.’s is to express emotion drama-
tically, and with the aid of a couple of grey
screens and a blank white wall they do it
magnificently. The opening programme was
“Cottages and Castles,” in which sundry old
English and Scottish folk-songs and some
of A. A. Milners superb nonsense were
drained to their last drop of drama. Theatri-
“Took the first wife up to her bedroom
and showed her some of the wedding
presents.”
eal moronia could profitably take a day off
from its expensive gambols and see how the
Misses Rayner do it. In “Prince Workaday
Goes Wooing” whole scenes are conjured up
in, a few spoken lines and quite satisfyingly.
This ought to appeal to the commercial in-
stincts of the professional entrepreneurs, if
not to their artistic souls.
* * *
Bernard Shaw might be interested, pos-
sibly gratified, to know that the ultimate
acid test has been put upon his genius in
Sydney. It was done at the Community
Playhouse, a basement theatre, its ceiling a
few inches above a lane footpath. The lane is
dark, save for the little light anchored about
the Playhouse door. Beyond, Darlingliurst
may be imagined pursuing its great industry
of razor sharpening. But this spot is isolated ;
alone, aloof; dug out under a church build-
ing and probably originally intended for
housing the extra packet of candles. Even
a packet of candles must breathe, and
so there are small ventilator spaces opening
on to the footpath above. To one of these (
apertures, in the midst of the second act of
“Fanny’s First Play,” came a stray cat. It
looked in, and in a rich baritone said
“Meow!” On the stage Margartt declaimed:
“It’s no use, mother. I don’t care for you
and papa any the less ; but I shall never get
back to the old way of talking again. Ive
made a sort of descent into Hell”
“Meow-w!” interjected the cat.
“Margaret! Such a word!’ said Mrs.
Knox.
“You should have heard all the words that,
were flying round that night,” cried Margaret.
"Meowwww!’
The audience turned and looked and tit-
tered. The cat did not. wait to deliver a
sermon about itself. Having accomplished
its end, it moved on. It had won an audi-
ence from Shaw in three meows.
Shaw remained, and, not having the oppo-
sition any longer, did very well. Indeed,
if there happens to be a Tuesday night left
in the present month, this Showman advises
those who seelc interesting theatrical fare
to brave the counter-attractions of Darling-
hurst and inspect this Community I lay-
house presentation. It is so long since the
piece was produced in Sydney that it comes
as a new offering. It
does so for another
reason; apart from
such things as refer-
ences to suffragettes —
who have an eternal-
ness about them, any-
way—it is as yet
practically undated. If
it really is a virtue
for a play to be
modern, this one is
wholly virtuous.
Taken all round, the
play suited the Com-
munity people. It
also suited their
theatre. The three
acts, and especially
the second one, might
go well in any house,
but the epilogue,
which Shaw might
not have written if he
had the example of
the non-sermonising
Darliughurst cat,
'yvould make even an
audience of livery-
stable horses restive.
And there is a speech
in the third act that
would get the cold
shoulder, and perhaps
the cold potato, from
any audience that had
paid money in the be-
lief that the goods
“The second Mrs.
Fraser, one of
those flighty young
things.”
(Mary MacGregor)
would be dramatically engaging. Bu
with a small audience that has a taste mi
mental refreshment even these things go pass-
ably well. There is some notably bad acting
in the production, but Wendy Woolfrey >-
Dora, Carolyn Forsyth’s Mrs. Gilbey am'
E. J. Fleming’s ‘Juggins are unmatchabie 01
Sydney’s amateur boards at the moment.
Cfr
The Nat Phillips and Syd. Beck combina-
tion continues to pack Sydney. Opera nou
on Saturday nights and keep it well P e °P,.
for the rest of the week. The lamentabi
results of an operatic visitation on a sma
country tow'n is the item of the eurren
which doubles ’em up from front stalls
back gods.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
AN EXPERT’S TRIBUTE.
“Refused the use of the Town Hall and the Exhibition Building, Premier Lang advocated the swindle that he calls his 'Plan,’ which is recognised as a device to
distract attention from his failure to solve N.S.W.’s unemployment problem, at Melbourne Stadium.”
RETIRED BRUISER: “My respects, Jack. I never fought a better schlenter meself.”
Standard of Living
Dear Bulletin, —What is necessary to
convince the Prime Minister that all his
talk that, the standard of living must be pre-
served is so much moonshine. The standard
of living did not rise during the boom years;
it fell. Take a personal example. Before
the war my father, a teacher, received £220
per annum, and with a family of three chil-
dren he wanted for nothing. Pie owned his
house, bought out of his savings ; we went
to everything of note in the town ; went away
for every school vacation; spent three
weeks at the seaside every summer. Of
course, he never had a motor-car, but neither
have I; yet on a salary of £312, and with
a family of two, I cannot do what mj
father did. I can’t afford a seaside holiday
for my family every year, although we live
75 miles nearer the sea; and if the picture-
theatre sees us more than three times a year
it’s lucky.
Bring back the prices of 20-odd years ago,
and I will gladly exchange my £312 for my
father’s £22o.—Yours, Country Ped.
The New States Movement
Dear B., —Instead of making elaborate
preparations for setting up new States,
would it not be more profitable to make
direct efforts to shift Mr. Lang?
No disaffected part of a State may secede
and set up a new State without the approval
of the Parliament of the original State. “A
new State may bo formed by separation of
territory from a State, but. only with the
consent of the Parliament thereof” (Sec.
124). So also “the Parliament of. the Com-
monwealth may, with the consent of the
Parliament of a State and the approval of
the majority of the electors of the State
voting upon the question, increase, diminish
or otherwise alter the limits of the State,
upon such terms and conditions as may be
agreed upon.” And “a new State may be
formed by the union of two or more States
or parts of States, but only with the consent
of the Parliaments of the States affected.”
Thus no sort of alteration at all can be
made without the consent of the Parliament
of the State affected ; in certain cases —the
inclusion of Broken Hill and the West Dar-
ling with South Aus., for example—it is
also necessary to have “the approval of the
majority of the electors of the State voting
upon the question.” The Federal Parliament
has no over-riding authority. It “may admit
to the Commonwealth or establish new
States,” and fix the conditions upon which
they .are. admitted or established ; but where
the territory is part of a State and is not
surrendered, the Federal authority has to
await the consent of the Parliament of the
State, The only other way is outside the
Constitution, and involves something more
than secession from a State: it involves also
.secession from the Commonwealth. At any
rate, it does not seem possible for a district
to unconstitutionally cut itself off from a
State which is part of a Federation without,
cutting itself off also from the Federation
whose Constitution it has disregarded.
We all got into this financial mess together,
and we should stay in it together until it is
cleaned up. Then we should proceed to
alter the Constitution so that an aggrieved
district might escape from a Parliament in
which it has no confidence, but which never-
theless might desire to retain it. But for
the moment the duty of the citizens of N. S.
Wales, east, west, north and south, is to
get Mr. Lang sent to his masters, the people.
—Yours, Federalist.
Reconstruction for Australia
Dear Bulletin, —When a company (or an
individual) gets into financial difficulties, a
meeting of creditors is called, and, if it is
otherwise sound (as Australia certainly is),
time and other concessions and adjustments
are given and made, in the interests of both
creditor and debtor. Australia is in much
the same position, and I cannot help feeling
that nothing else than an all-Australian re-
construction or readjustment will put Aus-
tralia on its feet. Land values have fallen
at least 15 to 30 per cent, and somewhat
more in the country districts, while cajntal
share-values have fallen up to 50 per cent.
As a mortgagee and bondholder I would
willingly agree to a writing down by
20 per cent,, in the national interest and
as part of the common sacrifice, and to safe-
guard and give stability to such securities.
What benefit will it be to creditors if there
are wholesale defaults, or if there is a finan-
cial and economic collapse? This would
involve much greater loss of interest and
some loss of capital. Such writing down,
which is common in business compositions
and arrangements, would be in the interests
of creditors as much as debtors; no real loss
would be sustained owing to greatly in-
creased purchasing power. In the past every-
one from the highest to the lowest has been
carried away by nominal or face values.
With values written down to their true figure,
the purchasing power of the latter would be
as great as if not greater than the previous
face or nominal value, while the result of
the writing down would be to give an im-
mense impetus to trade and industry and
exports particularly, and our internal loans
could be funded at lowered interest rates.
The present crisis calls for equality of sac-
rifice and emergency measures in the national
interest. Is it to be all for Australia or all
for self? —Yours faithfully, Lex.
Arbitrary Reduction of Interest
Dear Bulletin, —We are asked to believe
that lower interest-will be of benefit to the
community, but that only by the process of
expiry and renewal over a period of several
years will it be possible to secure the benefits
without damage to public credit.
This is a proposition which is not accept-
able to a great number of people who claim
to be giving serious and measured thought
to the problem. Rightly or wrongly. Labor
lodges a complaint that in times of difficulty
all that Capital can suggest is reduction in
wages. Some tangible evidence to the con-
trary would go far to offset the class bitter-
ness which is a growing evil in Australian
life, and would provide some answer to the
complaint that the anti-Labor forces are
conservative to the point of negativeness.
If, preceded by balancing of budgets and
restrained Government borrowing, interest
rates were reduced by, say,, one-fifth, there
would be no loss of confidence, and the indi-
vidual tempted to transfer his funds out of
Australia would be checkmated by the
exchange.
Of course, it is suggested that the reduc-
tion should apply solely to internal trans-
actions. Furthermore, it is not to be read
as an approval of the too-drastic and dis-
proportionate reductions demanded by Mr.
Lang.
On the authority of a Bank of N. S. Wales
“circular” it would be practical but inadvis-
able to reduce rates arbitrarily. This in-
advisability is questioned, the counter-
arguments being that: (1) Properly spon-
sored, there need be no loss of confidence;
(2) since the result is desirable, it should
be achieved quickly and not over a period—
not merely “in the course of a few years.”
We might be in our next depression by then.
—Yours truly, N. B. Bovis.
A Mutton Trade with “the East”
Dear Bulletin, —Another possible means
of helping the pastoral industry is through a
mutton trade with our “Near East,” which
is within ten days of Townsville or Rock-
hampton. Certainly an able man was sent
across some years ago to inquire into the
possibilities. But the only way to really
find out is to make a trial shipment; even
if . the meat was sold at a loss, it would be
a start towards securing a market and educa-
ting the native. And what better time than
the present, when most places are fully
stocked, and would be glad to get rid of sur-
plus old fats at any price? It should even
be possible to find enough public-spirited
and far-seeing graziers willing to contribute
small drafts free to make up a trial ship-
ment. —Yours, Edward W. Cowen.
High Exchange Rates
Dear Bulletin,. —There has been much
argument concerning the wisdom of high
exchange rates. Every sympathy is felt for
the primary exporting industries, and any
real help which can be should be given them.
But it is essential that a long view be taken
of the position. The adoption of expedient
proposals may result in temporary relief, but
the same fundamental problems will re-appear
in more acute forms unless either (1) prices
of our primary products increase,, or (2)
permanent devaluation of the Australian
pound becomes the of the
country.
The full effect of the high exchange rates
on the cost of living has not yet been felt,
though it is certain that prices of many
everyday necessities will be increased before
long. But by far the most serious effects of
inflation through high exchange rates is the
inevitable tendency to shelve the problem of
the high local cost of production in relation
to world costs. Take the case of a wool-
grower with a clip which realised £5OOO in
March. His costs amounted to £4500, so
there was a small profit of £5OO. On a
sterling basis. (i.e., on a par exchange) he
would receive about £3900, and therefore
instead of a profit of £5OO he would face a
loss of £OOO. The effect of the high exchange
is to avoid the real problem of placing the
industry on a sterling basis. Our policy at
present is to inflate receipts expressed in
sterling, in place of deflating costs expressed
in the same terms. In other words the cur-
rency is devaluated and is likely to remain
so while there is a weak impetus towards
attacking the essential problem of reducing
costs. As soon as rates fall, this problem
would immediately become urgent, and would
have to be met at once by the proper measures
or the rates put back to a remunerative level.
Now, devaluation is all very w r ell, and is an
easy path out of our economic difficulties
(because it avoids them) ; but in the case of
a debtor country, such as Australia, devalua-
tion would impose an enormous strain on our
Government finances, if we are not to repu-
diate abroad, and would prevent the raising
of loans overseas at reasonable rates of
interest., besides making high taxation inevit-
able.
The present policy seems to be a gamble
on the chance of getting higher sterling values
for our avool and wheat. It may come off.
But if it does not, the result will be per-
manent devaluation of the Australian pound.
If we are content to accept this, well and
good. Let us, however, at least realise
whither we arc drifting.—Yours faithfully,
David A. S. Campbell.
Over-governed
Dear B., —Our most important job is to
abolish payment of members. This is the
one thing that will break the back of party
government as we have it in Australia to-
day, when all are for a party and none are
for the State.
Next we should abolish all arbitration
courts: they have created more bitter feel-
ings between employer and employee than
all other methods for settling labor disputes.
And what good are they? When they make
an award they are unable to enforce it.
We have been so over-governed that if
the people were given an opportunity to
express their views by a referendum vote
it looks certain that they would by a large
majority put the nation under the rule of
commissioners, suspending all Parliamentary
government for, say, 10 years. If that were
done public confidence would be restored
both iu Australia and London, and Aus-
tralia would soon recover herself. W r hile
politicians are wrangling unemployment is
increasing and the affairs of the nation going
from bad to worse. —Yours, I. L.
Politics without Politicians
Dear Bulletin, —It seems to me things
would not be so bad if we had confidence in
our Parliaments. But we cannot feel that
way while we have party politics. It is,
lio'wever, possible to wipe out party politics
at the next election ; and, as we seem to be
game to try anything once, I propose that
we give it a go.
The method is simple. We merely make
up our minds that we will not vote for any
party candidate. In every electorate there
is some man whom the people respect for his
integrity and hard commonsense. These
men will not go in for politics of the present
brand —which is all to their credit. They
could, perhaps, be induced to give a hand
in our hour of need. The organisation could
be undertaken by the All for Australia
League, or the Salvation Army, or the local
Progress Association. It doesn’t matter who
does it so long as it is non-party.
If this plan were carried out we should
have a brand-new type of government with
not one politician in it. —Yours disgustedly,
Tomb,


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834. A
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,T00,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - - - - - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - . . . . „ . . 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - - - - . . 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DfTBctOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C,; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E;C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
pa
P 3
rcT.--
The “Fx & R” Man’s Wrist Watch, sterling
silver case, luminous dial, strong strap and
unbreakable glass;
, £5/5/-
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
This watch has been specially
designed to maintain its accu-
racy under the hardest con-
ditions. It is not in any way
a cheap watch, but one that
offers exceptional value. It is
a -J-plate lever, jewelled in 15
holes, and has adjusted and
compensated balance. The
dial is clear and bold and is
luminous, covered with un-
breakable glass. The case is
of heavy solid silver. Fairfax
and Roberts guarantee this
watch for 1 5 years, and keep
it in order free of charge,
. breakages excepted, for 12
months.
Orders by mail carefully attended to.
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.’’
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
ABORIGINALITIES
PROGRESS REPORTED.
“The old place doesn’t seem to go ahead very much, Mr. Penberthy?”
“Doan’t un! Why, only last ’ear us built new poorch on t’ chapel.”
“Piecrust”; On my way to visit Dad
Gumboughg, I had travelled all the morn-
ing. through country that looked as
if it hadn’t had a drop of moisture for
ten years. The earth was bare and scorched
hard, the trees seemed withering, and here
and there the bones of fallen animals showed
beside dried-up waterholes. . When I had
transacted my business with Dad. we had a
talk on the woes of the farmer. “Beats me,'’
I remarked, “how you fellows on the laud
keep going in a season like this.” Dad
looked round at the waterless desolation,
then puffed his chest out importantly. “Times
are bad,” he admitted, “an’ some of ’em will
go under this year. But I won’t—X ’ad a bit
of sense, an’ I put a bit away for a rainy
day!”
* =!= * *
“Blum”: Walking up and down Sydney’s
Georgc-street on my lawful occasions, I have
become so habituated to earbiters that my
bowels of compassion are getting a bit ossi-
fied, and I am generally out of earshot before
the tale of woe is launched. But one chap,
a rough-looking cove, too, got through my
defences the other day. “Mister,” he said,
“I’m not going to ask you for money, but
have you a bit of cold puddin’ about yer?”
ifc ❖ ijc
“J.K.” : Many years ago Dr. L. Morris, of
Avoca (Vic.), had a walking-stick cut from
one of the poplar-trees which grew in his
garden. One day, when in a great hurry,
he left the house of a patient, forgetting his
stick. Thinking he might return for it in
an hour or two someone stuck it in
a garden bed. It was then forgotten until
a few weeks later, when upon going through
the garden the tenant was surprised to find
the thing sprouting. That stick lias since
grown into a fine tree, and old identities
refer to it as “the doctor’s stick.”
❖ * *
“Vil N.” : Pfiourbag entered his front door
full of spirit. Two seconds later his Mary,
seemingly carried on a wave of mongrels with
a spray of fowls, burst through the back
door, Pfiourbag following with a stick.
Screams issued from behind the woodheap.
Came the heartfelt protest of Mary between
wallops—“ ’Ere, don’t you be so plurry
bashful!”
* * *
“Floodmark” : Digging postholes the other
day, I unearthed a mother > centipede about
Tin. long. About 18 creamy white young
ones were scattered far and wide. The
mother rounded them up and placed them
beneath her body. I brushed them off again
and gave the youngsters a start. Mother
repeated the circus. Then once more I
interfered. At that Mrs. Centipede’s hundred
legs went berserk, and she quickly snapped
off the heads of the whole brood. My boot
finished the show.
* * # *
“Tiki”: H'ow long have the Maoris been
denizens of the Shaky Isles? The first white
settlers, owing perhaps to an imperfect under-
standing of what was told .them by the
natives, formed the impression that the
great migration across the Pacific took place
not more than 400 years ago. That there was
a migration about that time seems to be
fairly well established, but it is now generally
accepted that when the migrators arrived they
FAIR WARNING.
YOUNG FISHERMAN (to worm): “’Ere, this is yer last chance. If yer don’t catch a
fish this time, I’ll take yer home and feed yer to the fowls. See!”
found some of their race had been established
in the land for many generations. The recent
discovery on the slopes of Mount Egmont
of a Maori oven, overlaid by an uninterrupted
layer of volcanic ash, pushes back the date
of the first occupation. Egmont, or Tahu-
rangi (“Sky-firer”), as the Maoris, called it,
has been dormant for probably not far short
of 3000 years, so Maori history in Maoriland
may go back beyond the annals of Egypt or
of Babylon.
* * * *
“C.P.C.” (Alaska) : We have rabbits
in this country, but they die off about
every seven years. When I ‘ went to Cook’s
Inlet in 1923 rabbits were plentiful, ,but
I was told that the winter of 1922, being
very severe, had killed them in thousands.
What were left were dying from a breaking-
out of sores, all over their bodies. In 1927
and 1928 a rabbit was very seldom seen.
They reappeared in 1929, and have since been
increasing fast. With the passing of the
rabbits the lynx- also became scarce, but with
the return of bunny lynxes, foxes and wolves
are again numerous, - and trappers are doing
well.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: There are some
weak points in “B. Sting’s” instructions to
those in search of bush honey (B. 8/4/’3l).
Chivvying the bee is recommended; but it
is a devil of a job to < keep ■ one eye on
the fleeing insect and the other on the rocks,
logs, undergrowth and pitfalls of various
kinds usually found where the wild bee wings
his droning flight. And then there is the
impossibility of any terrestrial animal over-
taking or keeping in sight a fully extended
bee. Once while travelling on a flat waggon
at 40 m.p.h. I .noticed bees investigating the
barrels of molasses which formed part of
the loading, and these-bees flew to and fro
from one barrel to another with apparent
ease.-If-those insects were not making more
than 40 m.p.h. between barrels they would
have been left in the wilderness as soon as
they let go their first hold.
'* * . * • *
“Strict Veg.”: • The likelihood of the
beautiful sambur deer, which have been accli-
matised in Vie., ever becoming a conspicuous
feature of the landscape■except in the re-
motest areas is slight. Although city sports-
men rarely think of big game in larger terms
than rabbit, countrymen don’t neglect this
opportunity of varying the pot. The fisher-
men of Tarwin, about 100 miles east of
Melbourne, got 20 head last year. The
method of stalking is unconventional, and at
one recent hunt caused city guns, who
were paying all expenses, to indulge in some
free comment. The city chaps were posted
across a wide stretch of bush from which
the animals were expected to break cover.
The beaters, on horseback and accompanied
by dogs of every variety but dachshunds,
plunged into the scrub and for four hours
nothing more was heard of them. ’ Mean-
while the sportsmen waited more or less
eagerly while a fine rain trickled down their
necks and the sou’-wester froze their arteries.
Just as night was about to fall the baying
of the hounds could be heard and all was
tense expectation along the firing-line. Sud-
denly a magnificent specimen of Gervus nris-
totelis burst out of a tea-tree thicket. The
nearest sportsman raised his rifle and was
just about to fire when one of the beateis
tore out of the scrub and, racing at break-
neck speed along the line of guns, ranged
alongside the animal and shot him from the
saddle. The disappointed rifleman’s opinion
of this behavior would' have set fire to a
concrete building.
* * * *
“No Gammon”: Percy was overdue a
week, but nobody was worrying. He was
a pretty tame person when in the Solo-
mon Islands bush, and we knew he
wouldn’t look for trouble. However, when
he returned and told us a yarn about
holding, off a mob of nigs, for a week at a
river crossing, we sat up and began to think
that there might still .be something worth
living for. Passing the scene of the alleged
siege later, I asked a police boy w’ho was
with me, and who happened to be with Percy
on his patrol, where the scrap took place.
Seeing the boy was a bit mystified, I put the
question more delicately, and after a while
enlightenment dawned on his black dial.
“What name fight?” he remarked. “Master
he got him dish belong wash-wash; look out
money along place.” Percy had been doing
a bit of prospecting on the quiet.
* * * *
“D.H.R.”; I’ve seen samples of petrified
wood from nearly every, part of Australia,
but nothing like those of Lightning Ridge
opalfield (N.S.W.). There the substance
is found. in almost ■ every hole over a
wide stretch of country, in. sizes from tree-
trunks of great diameter to small branches
and twigs, in one sloping stratum only ; sug-
gesting that at some remote period a land-
slide buried the forest in its path. The
preservation of the characteristics of the
wood is remarkable, every ring of growth and
the perpendicular fibre being clearly
visible; in many instances the bark, even
in color, looks as if it were still grow-,
ing, while here and there indentations where
it has been broken off (presumably in the
crash) are plainly discernible. Whole
branches, amongst which are dark thick
masses of petrified sticks and grass (appa-
rently birds’ nests) are common. Petrified
frogs have been found there too.
THE OLD CLAIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•Til have to go back to the old claim I
fossicked in ’ninety-four,”
Said Jimmy Love at the camp-fire that
blazed outside his door.
"The old first claim was the best claim I’ve
worked in the hunt for gold;
For richer ground I left it—ah, but now
I’m slow and old.
I d better retrace my step, boys ; yes, look-
ing for something new
Is squandered time when the old claim
can ration me safely through.
"I’ll journey again to Hogan's, asleep in
the haunting past,
To dolly a reef forsaken I left in the First
and Last;
For, in spite of all, the old claim was a
decent sort of show,
With ore at grass on the sollar and a tempt-
ing face beloV.
Let others make for the new fields that sweep
the venturers still
Across the line of no-return, beyond the
farthest hill,
Where the gold is always waiting to quicken
the endless quest.
"I won’t be with ’em,” said Jimmy. “The
old first claim was the best!”'"
He drove away in the buckbaard when the
dawn crept up the sky,
With “So long, boys, you’ll hear of me—l’ll
call you by-and-bye.
Perhaps I’ll need you with me wheat the
long last journey’s done,
For gold runs deep in the old claim, far
more than enough for one.”
And Jimmy has driven his pegs home through
the dross of worked-out ground,
Reclaimed long since by the saplings that
flourish on dump and mound;
While a ragged tent at the old claim, laid
low ’neath the summer blast,
Has folded, a shi-oud for Jimmy in camp at
the First and Last.
N.S..W.
GERARDY.


è
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and tlie special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement. *
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS f/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.*
Head Office: P. & 0. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents; Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
855,. Agency Co., Ltd.
U/ye
PLUM
RAZOR
12/6
Post paid.
Strongly made grained-leather
hinged case provided free with
every razor.
é
„, „ . “PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths —gin. and Jin.
Lach Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
ve>
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD
Pits any blade razor 8, f, f inch size.
This guard permits the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, ensuring a thorough and com-
fortable shave,
2/9 Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
“Australia Fair”: The impanelling of
juries at Darwin, sometimes involves queer
racial problems. Recently in an abo. murder
case the lawyers successfully challenged on
the ground of alien blood an Australian-born
with a Japanese father and a Chinese
mother, and another with one grandmother
English and the rest of his progenitors
Chinese. Another native-born Australian
with a Filipino father, an English mother
and a Chinese wife got away with it —his
white mother saved him.
* * :H *
“Gelt” : The white man’s code of justice
is constantly in conflict with native custom
in Mandated New Guinea. Of late there
has been a drive against the immolation of
widow's, which is an age-old institution in
the Gasmata (New Britain) districtand at
Rabaul nine native men, marked out by
tribal custom as the proper persons to dis-
patch, by strangling, four widows, thus
allowing them to join their spouses, have
been sentenced to death. One of the execu-
tioners, who showrnd some slight qualms in
carrying out his duty, was soundly rated by
the impatient widow, who exclaimed: “You’re
like a woman; if I a man I would kill
you.” Another widow, anxious for her spirit
to join that of her husband’s, complained of
THE PROOF OF IT.
BOSS: “Does your Mary know the value of money?”
JACKY: “My word, boss—she spend every penny she can lay her plurry hands on."
the delay of preparing the strangling mal. She
herself knotted the cloth at the required dis-
tances and told her kinsmen to get on with
the business.
“Ulaka”: “8E26” comes to a surprising
conclusion regarding' the one-sided abo. skull.
Far from carrying her baby clutched to her
shoulder, the lubra has the simplest and best
baby-carrier devised in or out of civilisa-
tion : one that for health, coolness and com-
fort ought to be recommended and distributed
by the clinics. This is the bark coolamon,
or, better Still, the pinjan, which is a half-
cylinder of paper-bark cut from Melaleuca
■Jcucadendron in the wet season, when the
; bark is soft and porous. Swung over one
shoulder with a plait of banyan fibre, a bit
of rawhide or whatever offers, the layers of
light bark make it lullaby-soft and straight
as a die to the little one’s back. Until he
is old enough to perch on his daddy’s
shoulder he is rarely carried in any other way,
and this is what makes for his enviably erect
carriage in later life. Down on the Murray,
where the ope-sided skull came from, grass
mats arid baskets are usually the piccaninny’s
cosy-bye, and here again they are’ held aloof
from the mother’s body. The skull in ques-
tion probably is a malformation—almost
any abo.’s head is a phrenological nightmare.
Considering its density a slant like that would
take years of iron compression to perfect.
* * :!: *
“Gumblegubbin”: In one way the octopus
resembles the bower-bird. It has a fondness
for bright things, and makes a nest or play-
ground with them, usually in front of its
home, which is under a shelving rock. With
its long _ tentacles it rakes together all the
shells within a radius of several yards, and
on the heap it proudly spreads itself to watch
for prey. The fresh-water catfish, common
in the mid-eastern rivers and lagoons, also
makes a nest, but only for spawning pur-
poses. It is circular or oval in shape,
fashioned of pebbles and small stones. Where
the material is scarce the fish shoves or rolls
the pebbles along with its mouth. The
female is, usually seen resting over the nest,
or swimming slowly about the vicinity. She
keeps a^constant watch on it; hunting away
other fish, and especially the old man, until
the eggs are hatched.
* * x *
“Pick”: Strong lights have a peculiar
attraction for night-time birds. The beam
from Montague Island lighthouse shines
dimly for a minute and then blazes for eight
seconds, with such a penetrating flash that
through the densest gloom the hills ashore are
lit up seven miles away. Sometimes alba-
trosses or other nocturnal sea-birds dash
themselves to death against the wired
windows. Curlews, night-hawks and owls
are killed now and then by plung-
ing at the lights of roadway cars.
Binghi turns this avian inclination to
account. On an open flat he builds of sap-
lings and brambles a high ring, narrowing
above and extending outward at the base.
Within this enclosure he lights a fire with
leaves and dry bark. Wild ducks, cranes
or plovers swoop at the shining spot, become
entangled under the houghs, and are waddied
to death before they can flutter free.
A HINT FROM THE STABLE.
WOOP (viewing sewer excavation) : “You blokes are wastin' your time here — you’ll
never grow nothin’ in that soil—will they, mother?”
“H.A.L.”: The man who thought he was
funny. had inherited a fine property in the
Adelaide hills, with a fair wad of
cash. _ Following an argument
the original gardener left. The
first instructions given to his
successor were: “Dig up this
bed, then plant these new stand-
ard roses with their branches in
the ground and their roots in
the air.” The new man looked
surprised, but obeyed. “Good !”
said the boss when the job was
done. “Now dig ’em up and
plant ’em the right way around.
You’re just the man I want —
the other chap was everlast-
ingly arguing. I want men
who’ll obey without question.”
A few weeks later he instructed
the gardener to “grub out the
third clump of trees on the
right-hand side of the driveway
as you come in the gate”; and
returned that evening to find
two of ' his magnificent old
Lebanon cedars —the pride of
every tree-lover in the district —
prostrate and a third on the
point of falling. With a howl
of rage he leapt from his buggy
and began to give the gardener
his opinion of that person.
“Listen to me!” snapped the
gardener. “What did you tell
me to do? The third clump on
the right, wasn’t it?” A glance
showed the boss whose fault it
was, but he roared, “Couldn’t
you see I’d made a mistake?
Didn’t you know how much I
valued these trees? Why, in
Heaven’s name didn’t you draw
my attention to” “You
told me you wanted a man
who’d obey without question,”
interrupted the gardener; “and
you’ve got one!” The gardener
wasn’t sacked, but thereafter it
was “Do you think we’d bet-
ter? or “What would you advise?” when
alterations were projected.
* * * *
“Mako” : A fire left our homestead in the
back country beyond Gisborne (M.L ) a heap
of ashes, and the family had to camp in the
woolshed. In the morning, when the big
doors were opened before us, in a row on the
grass sat the representatives from the near-
by Maori kainga. There were 27 natives in
the line, squatting without talking in order
not to disturb 11s, and not one had come
empty-handed. Renata, an ancient and much-
tattooe.d chieftain, was in charge of the
gathering, and held the black rooster that
was his offering. Small boys and girls bore
flax kits of kumeras (sweet potatoes) and
peaches; chickens were there in dozens, and
»t the end of the row sat old Roka with her
pig. We knew this was the greatest sacrifice
of all, as for the past month Roka had never
been seen without the little pig slung in a
shawl across her back. Renata advanced
and made a speech, and my father, who spoke
Maori fluently, replied, and then we came
forward to accept the gifts, which Maori
etiquette demanded should not be refused.
We ate the kumeras and peaches, and the
chickens wandered round at will, but I saw
Roka next day smoking contentedly at the
gate of the kainga, with a little white pig,
shawl-wrapped, looking affectionately round
her ear. Dad had found some means to
circumvent etiquette and restore her treasure
to her.
* * * *
“Hal”: A friend of mine spent a lot of
time constructing a fine big fish-pond in his
garden, which he stocked with goldfish, native
trout (those tiny, cigar-sized fish found in
nearly all South Australian creeks), pond
snails and frogs. All the denizens were
thriving and multiplying until a neighbor,
coming home late one night, heard a splash-
ing in a near-by creek, went down to inves-
tigate, and found it was caused by a two-
pound trout stranded in a nearly dried-up
pool. Full of benevolence and whisky, he
picked it up, and tossed it into the fish-pond
as he passed. Inside a fortnight the sole
inhabitant of the pond was one fat trout.
* * * *
“Hamer”: In spite of its terrifying name,
Sturt’s “Great Stony Desert” is sought after
by sheepmen. It is practically all taken
up, and there would be a rush if
one of the grazing leases fell in. Under the
gibbers the grass grows, and the little suc-
culent blades that show themselves can be
clipped off very advantageously by a close-
grazer like the merino. A man who knows
the area declares that he shot the fattest
rabbit he struck in all Australia in this part,
and the sheep were in tip-top condition. Yet
the “Great Stony Desert” appellation is
allowed to cling and delude people.who don’t
know into believing vain things about Aus-
tralia’s innards.
POMMY PUTS A POSER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They chaffed the Pom., as fellows will. He
took it with a cheerful grin,
And in the strife of wi.s somehow ’twas he
that got the last word in.
“Ah well, you all were Pommies once,” he
told the crowd, “for all your airs.
Or, if not you, your fathers were, or if that
doesn’t suit you, theirs.
Sometime or other all of you arrived from
t’otherside the _ seas.
You all were Pommies once,” he said, “except
the aborigines.”
It seemed to me he had ’em there. A genera-
tion back or so,
Or half a dozen at the most, is far as anyone
can go.
The longest-settled stock is young; the oldest
old inhabitant
Can’t carry back hid pedigree beyond some
wide-eyed immigrant
Who found conditions just as strange, and
doubtless faced the same old digs
As his successors meet. We all were new-
cliums once, except the nigs. .
“You’re strangers in the land, the lot of
(i you,” he told ’em fair and square,
“The same as me, or if you aren’t your
fathers or your grand-dads were.”
He took the barrack with a grin; he waited
till they’d done their cracks;
“All, well, you , all were Pommies once,” he
told the mob, “except the blacks.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


The Lang Government has brought down a bill to reduce interest
rates. What is the legal position of bondholders?
The effect of the Theodore proposals will depend largely upon
whether the banks can prevent inflation of prices. Can they?
What are the points to watch in valuing shares?
When will the drift stop?
Why does gold flow to the U.S.A. and France?
What cos. are standing up best to the strain?
These and many other problems of vital interest are discussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT MONTHLY.”
APRIL
NUMBER
NOW
ON SALE
Single copy, 2/-;
per annum, 22/6,
From newsagents
or “Bulletin"
offices Sydney,
Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide,
Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
Jack Lang will certainly do us.
* #
Scullin mayn’t be the all-round messer
most of us think lev is. Perhaps he can
play golf.
“Several notably rich citizens are now absent from
their accustomed places at race meetings.” —Sydney
paper.
Realising, no doubt, that too much money
has already gone up in moke.
Lang has funny ideas of finance, but
they’re no joke to us.
The Arbitration
Court’s 10 p.c. wage
cut in certain indus-
tries is likely to lead
to cuts in industries
that are not so
certain.
ERROR OF JUDGMENT.
“ You’ll marry,” my friends all declared
“As soon as Miss Right comes along!”
I did, but long since have despaired
Of righting that terrible wrong.
M. C.
¥ #
“Neither Mr. Scullin nor Mr. Theodore can hope
to hide behind the farmer.” — “Herald.”
They even failed to hide their light under
a 4s. bushel.
NEW PARTY.
Not generally known that another party
has entered the Federal arena—the B. T. T.
League. Comprising as it does some of the
most attractive ideals of both Nationalist
and Labor parties, the programme of the
Blast the Taxpayers’ League is expected to
attract enthusiastic support—at any rate
amongst Parliamentarians. The executive,
which is entirely composed of gentlemen who
have been declared habitual politicians, has
NOTHING OUTSTANDING.
SELF-SATISFIED BORE: “I owe everything to
myself.”
MISS (who thinks he’s talked too much
about himself): “It must be very
pleasant to be quite out of debt like
that!”
been accommodated with a palatial suite in
Bligh-street as a tribute of respect from “A
Few Nationalist Wirepullers,” while the
Sydney Trades Hall has placed Mr. Garden’s
famous Machine (Nevsky Prospekt model)
at its disposal. Platform heTewith :— :
(1) Members to make at least one good political
promise daily on the principle of the Boy Scout’s
good deed.
(2) Members to be allowed to ply for hire with
Ministerial cars, and use same for furniture-moving,
etc., for duration of depression.
(3) Members’ wives, children and other dependants
to be fed, clothed and entertained at expense of
grateful State.
(4) Unflinching repudiation of all measures likely
to alienate votes.
(5) A constructive temperance policy calculated
to appeal to brewers and prohibitionists alike.
(G) Gold-pass system to be extended to hotels,
restaurants, race-meetings and picture-shows.
(7) ss. in the £ wages tax for the relief of
unemployment, the proceeds to be applied to doubling
members’ salaries.
(8) Loyalty to Throne, Empire and Moscow.
10-2-4.
H- *
“We should study our faces.”— Beauty specialist.
But in these grim flays why go out of the
way to make oneself unhappy?
It was a considerate gesture on the part
of the N.S.W. Government to go into recess
when Wirtlis’ Circus opened in Sydney.
# *
FATE.
“I saw her when I first came to town. I was
one of her lodgers.”-— Breach-of-promise evidence.
Herein the hand of Destiny
Moves to its purpose grim;
He chose her as his landlady,
And the lady landed him!
* ¥
“To every utterance of Mr. Lang I feel inclined
to add ‘O.E.’ —“Omissions Excepted.’ ”
— A.F.A. speaker.
Less polite taxpayers render it “Oh 'Ell!”
KEEPING AUSTRALIA PURE.
“Mr. Creswell O’Reilly’s fears for Australian morals
are once again evident. He has banned ‘Capo
Forlorn’ and ‘Woman Between,’ both British Inter-
national pictures.”— “Labor Daily.” 1
From the. Vicar of Biddlington-Under-
Loam:—
Dear Mr. Creswell O’Reilly ,—H was indeed grieved
that you should have banned my 8.1. P. version of
“Eric, of Little by Little,” < which was passed by
my bishop, and acclaimed in London at our last
Synod ■ meeting. I hear you take exception to an
expletive—to the one which has been condemned by
your Department as “too Shavian for Australian
ears.” But, after all, “Fie!” is a good old English
word. If > I am to exclude racy expressions of the
sort, what is to become of my atmosphere ? —Yours
'sincerely, Atiiaxasics Smith.
From the Commonwealth Film Censor: —
Dear Mr. Smith,—lt is not only . the language of
your talkie that offends. “Fie!”, is used no less
than three times by the housekeeper, and then there
is the oath “Blow f” uttered by the gardener when
he falls over his watering-can. But worse, far worse;
is your studied appeal to the baser passions. I refer
to the lubricious scene in which the lace' hem, or
bordering, on the dr-w-rs, of Eric’s girl friend is
shown protruding beneath her ankle-length skirt.
It was spectacles of this kind that brought about
the decline and fall of the Roman Empire.—Yours
faithfully, Creswell O’Reilly.
From flic Vicar :
Dear Sir, —I grant there is a provocative element
in - the costume of my heroine, but did your Depart-
ment take into consideration (1) that the fringe,
or under-pinning, of Emily’s dr-w-rs was as worn
at the period, (2) that the young couple were on
their way to Sunday-school? I contend, and I have
reason to believe that the Archbishop of Canterbury
is with me here, that such facts tend to mitigate
the offence, if any.—Yours faithfully, Ath. Smith.
From the Censor :
Sir,—The pair, you say, were on their way to
Sunday-school. But do they get theref Are they
shown in the act of receiving spiritual uplift? No.
A storm comes on. Emily, in her pornographic
dr-w-rs, takes shelter with Erie in a tea-room.
Alone. What transpires? Imagination boggles at
the thought. Be sure, sir, that such evilly suggestive
problems will never be posed for the corruption of
our Australian youth while I hold the moral reins.
-—Yours truly, Creswell O’Reilly.
P.S.—This correspondence must now cease.
D. .T.
SOMETHING WRONG WITH THE
WORKS.
“Is it dinner-time yet, Mummy?”
“Oh, not for nearly an hour, child.”
“Then my tummy’s fast.”
When the landlord calls for his rent he is
often compelled to stay without these days.
* *
“In loving remembrance of my loved sitter.”
-— Memoriam. notice.
Most of us have at one time or another
missed a sitter.
THE INDIFFERENTIST.
“You pay a bob to be a Nationalist, and Jack
Lang’s crowd takes a bob off you. I’m fed up with
both of them.” — A.F.A. speaker.
’Twixt Tweedledum and Tiveedledee
The difference is nix;
And so it is, it seems to me,
In party politics.
I cannot for Tom Bavin shout,
And hope that lie will win;
For while Jack takes my shillings out,
Tom makes me pay them in.
I can never again be a party hack
Athirst for martyrdom,
While I think of Lang as Bob-out Jack,
And Bavin as Bob-in Tom.
CA RE.
THE DREAM AND THE BUSINESS.
Press Report.
Crown Prosecutor: “You say you saw the
murdered man on the night of Tuesday,
June 23?”
Witness: “I have already said that June
23 was the night on which I observed
deceased.”
MAKING A JOB OF IT.
“Poor girl, she’s taking quite desperate measures to reduce."
“Yes, poor girl—married an artist, I believe!”
“Would you be so good as to tell the
Court whether or not he was wearing an
overcoat?”
“I cannot be positive, sir. It was exceed-
ingly dark.’'’ (
“But I understood you to say that you
saw his face.”
“Yes. He- chanced to strike a match to
light a cigar.”
“What happened when the car drew up?”
“A young lady jumped out, placed a
revolver against his chest and fired.”
“How do you know- she used a revolver?”
“I heard a shot, and, further, by the light
of a street lamp, I could clearly discern a
shiny object in her hand.”
“Come ! Come! You could see all that,
and yet you are unable to say whether the
victim was wearing an overcoat or not?”
“I think he was, but as I said before I
cannot be positive.”
( Proceeding.)
Tiie Dinktjm Stuff.
Crown Prosecutor: “Now, then, witness,
lissener me! Yer sor ther man er Tuesdee
night, ther twenny-tliird er June?”
Witness: “Yairs. Tole yer so beffaw.”
“Wearin’ er mack?”
“Dunno. It wuz dark uz ’ell.”
“But yer sor ’iz fyee?”
“Yairs. Whennee strikes er match ta
light er fag.”
“Wot’s next?”
“A sheila ’ops out an’ sticks a gun inniz
stummick, an’ fires”
“Owdger know she used a gun?”
“I ’ears a shot, doan’ I? An’ I .sees a
shiny jigger in the sheila’s ’and. Wodger
coinin’ at?”
“Yet yer can’t say if he wuz wearin’ a
mack?”
“Cripes! Now yer mcnehin it again, I
think e’ adda mack on. 1 wouldn’ like ter
take me davy on it, though.”
(Proceeding.)
U. D.
PLAYING THE GAME.
“Cricket Romance: Player and Fair Bystander
Wed.”— Sydney paper headlines.
Being an expert fieldsman, Harold caught
her glance one day, and the man who had
trundled her in his car to see the match
was out. Harold
bowled over, and
though he saw her
escort was angry
didn’t bat an eye.
Harold was now
on a good wicket.
He paid more, atten-
tion to his style,
had his stumps
attended to, and
always appeared
with a crease in his
pants. His rival,
completely stumped,
tried to show her a
silly point by point-
ing out liis slips;
but our hero, hit him
to leg, and soon had
the field to himself.
He regarded her as
a regular duck; and
she admired every-
thing about him, in-
cluding his bowler’s
eye and the break he
sometimes put in his
voice. He took her
for drives, on and
off, and to many
balls, and at last he
was bowled enough
to ask her to let
him be her keeper.
The parson made a
couple of them, and
thereby scored one
(guinea).
“Are you playing
cricket this after-
noon?” she de-
manded after the
honeymoon. “What
about taking me?”
“Oh, that’s over,”
he retorted.
It was then her
tears teamed.
H. M.
HER MISTAKE.
The clock was striking two when she
heard sounds at the front door. Presently
the latch clicked and there
were stealthy footsteps. She
.smiled grimly to herself as
she got out of bed and picked
up the pick-handle she had
been keeping in readiness
for the past hour. And
now the door-handle turned,
and the door began to open
inch by inch. Suddenly she
swung the pick-handle. There
was a thud, then a froan,
and a body sank to the floor.
“He had it coming to him,
the drunken hound,” she
muttered as she switched on
the light. Then she gasped.
The man on the floor wasn’t
her husband at all but a
perfectly sober burglar.
STRUTT.
VESTS AND VIRTUE.
“Knitted Sports Wear of Character.” “Argus
advt.
A sweater, sirf We recommend
This inoffensive little fellow;
He’s never "been upon a bend,
Nor read sex books or journals yelloic.
His Sunday-school lie’s never missed,
And lie has never, sir, been kissed.
A pull-on, madam? Though to go
On busts is this one’s normal function,
She’s a blue ribbonite, I know,
And preaches temperance with unction.
At Satan’s touch her wool would freeze;
She looks on vice with utter loathing.
Pass right along the counter, please,
And view our moral underclothing!
THE IMMACULATE SHOPWALKER.


In the heart of the busy city^
In the lonely outback town H
\ X , •\- ■ t , ■ - I
i!
m
y/te Worlds* Purest
I
mmwmmw.
Vt
m
\W >v\\
hw i
A
m
ffl
&
m
m
\
the
SSB^
o\&
it-*
r ' see
tbe '“S*
of 11,0
CoU ms: i ts , v,nVh ance . =n£ bat
bl^°^ e ■*** is the
doe® ti gW-^» in o*'*" ° Vd C °' 111
citi eS
, « bev°» d oU *
** a h att est Vtch «t^ s
»°“ ’’L iao , s *e
° ne ' s -i. sa uob* V\»ve
of e" 1 ' 11 o id C°ot'- us " be .
"VSS-SS?'""
t \ve hu^ bV .
as *>»*■
socte V , a 5. to
caV ttot
v/ott
to
C c r;eWe»— fd as %
hatttet _ aS in
»* »
attaiv
in
fia-
_ *o*r
aBS ed
and **** fine .
yon*>
ë
S 8
t/*
,-r*~
&
J
iiiilfifm]
i!
ē
d.
6
Nip
‘ttnimat
*Qho Vorlcfc Purest" v/
NATION'S FAVORITE


Queensland Is Calling!
KEEN BUSINESS
MEN KNOW
that Queensland is most favorably
situated of all the States, and are
planning accordingly. They also
know from long experience that
the circulation claims of
The Daily Mail
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
are dependable claims which have
always been supported by un-
deniable proof. They know, too,
that this great newspaper is cer-
tainly unsurpassed as a business
getter by any Queensland publi-
cation.
Rate cards, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.
N.S.W. Branch, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
'A
Now YOU Can
Pay by CHEQUE
Everyone realises the advantages of
paying by cheque—many have not had
the opportunity of using such a banking
account. You can do so now with a
deposit this week. Earn interest—save
money.
HAVE A BANK ACCOUNT
—KEEP IT GROWING.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS
BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
CHEMIST SAYS
“HEENZO is the best family
cough and influenza remedy.”
A WONDERFUL MONEY-SAVER.
A leading chemist advises parents to save
money by making their own family cough
remedy by simply adding concentrated
HEENZO to sweetened water. _ By doing this
you will have a supply equal in quantity to
eight ordinary-sized cough-mixture bottles
that would cost up to £l. Heenzo is the
ideal family cough remedy because of its
absolute purity and freedom from narcotics.
Therefore, it is a safe and good remedy for
even the youngest baby, as well as adults. A
bottle of concentrated Ileenzo will cost yon
2/- at all leading chemists and stores. Over
one million citizens annually prove the
goodness and economy of HEENZO as a
speedy and reliable remedy for banishing
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza,
and whooping cough. Thrift is a sign ot
wisdom. Buy a bottle of HEENZO to-daj.
and have it in the home for immediate use
at the first sign of chest and throat ailments."
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED
MEAL
WHEAT PRICES COMPARED.
“Jamwood” : Australian wheatgrowers wno
put their trust in politicians are in a bad
situation, but. not so bad as that of their
Canadian brethren. For one thing they have
no long and bitter winter to contend with,
nor have they to house their stock; and
being so much nearer the seaboard they are
much better off in the matter of rail freights.
Mr. T. H'. Bath, writing in the Westralian
“Primary Producer,” quotes harrowing ex-
tracts from Canadian papers to show the
destitution to which Dominion farmers have
been reduced. For example, a Saskatchewan
farmer “threshed 1500 bushels of wheat,
paying ten cents per bushel for threshing,
and feeding the crew in addition. The first
load he took into the elevator he got 3$
cents per bushel. The next load they told
him was worth nothing, and they merely
gave him a ticket for delivery.” One of his
children died, and a relief-worker, going
to the farm to investigate, found the family
in a desperate condition.
Writes Mr. Bath, who visited Canada
not long ago on behalf of the Westralian
Wheat Pool: —
Australian wheatgrowers will probably find it
difficult to understand an offer of three cents
a bushel. This is probably a straightout
sale of low-grade wheat at the elevator.
The W.A. Wheat Pool has information that the price
received by Prairie Province wheatgrowers at a rail-
way station on the average rail freight is Is. Bd. per
bushel for No. 1 Manitoba Northern. The three lead-
ing grades are Nos. 1, 2 and 3 Manitoba Northern.
The spreads, or difference in prices, ranging for
these vary in different seasons, but would be about
2d. per bushel between Nos. 1 and 2, and 3d. per
bushel between Nos. 2 and 3. No. 3 Northern would
be worth about Is. 3d. per bushel at average siding.
The spreads increase between the lower grades Nos.
4, 5 and 6, so that in a season like this, when
it is quite difficult to sell the good qualities of wheat
at prices now ruling, the spread on the lower grades
would make them practically unsaleable.
Continuing Mr. Bath says :
Weekly reports of deliveries in Canada indicate
that about 50 per cent, of the wheat is grading
Nos. 1, 2 or 3, so that it is plain that the average
value of wheat delivered at Canadian sidings is
well below the mark of Is. Bd. per bushel paid
for No. 1. The Westralian wheatgrower is doing
much better than this, as about 96 per cent, of
our deliveries come within the f.a.q. standard on
which is based the current price paid at railway
sidings from day to day.
Since the foregoing was published the
secretary of the Westralian. Wheat Pool has
reported that it has sold 13,315,000 bushels
at a price which will return the growers
Is. 9£d. Per bushel at siding, with rail freight
at 4d.—and that is the Westralian average.
USES FOR SURPLUS WHEAT.
Dealing with this important subject in
the April number of the N.S.W. “Agricul-
tural Gazette,” veterinary-surgeon Black
tells farmers who have inferior wheat on their
hands that “pinched or shrivelled grain is in
many instances almost equal in feed value
to wheat of good milling quality,” but “it
should be clean and free from moulds.” Mr.
Black refers to analyses and experiments
made in Australia and other countries, and
arrives at conclusions which may be sum-
marised as follows: —
Wheat may be fed to horses with advantage, pro-
vided the necessity for proper mastication is borne
in mind. It should be fed ground or rolled in
quantities up to 71b. or 81b. a day, but should first
be mixed with bran or chaff, or a mixture of both.
When it is desired to change the concentrate of
horses from oats to wheat, the change should be
made gradually.
In America wheat was found equal to maize for
milk production, and an experiment in Ireland indi-
cated that six parts by weight of wheat in the
ration gave slightly better results than four parts
of oats plus two parts of bran. But it should be
fed to dairy cows with some protein-rich food such as
linseed meal and bran. A good meal mixture is four
parts of ground wheat, one part of bran and one part
of linseed meal; to the average milking shorthorn cow
it could be fed on the basis of 3.51 b. of the
mixture to every gallon of milk given. The wheat
should be ground or rolled. For calves a mixture
of two parts of ground wheat to one part of linseed
meal constitutes a good meal ration. As portion of
the ration for fattening cattle, wheat has given
better results than oats. .
Feed it whole to sheep. In America wheat is
considered slightly superior to maize for these
animals; in this country maize gives better results.
For young and growing swine wheat is much
superior to corn. For fattening purposes they are
about equal, .but the quality of bacon produced from
vdieat-fed pigs is considered superior. In a test,
six parts of wheat were found to have a greater feeding
value than four parts of pollard plus two parts of
bran. As with horses and cattle, it should be used
for pigs as ground or rolled wheat, and should be
soaked for six to twelve hours before being used.
It is preferably fed as a thin slop, prepared by the
addition of skim-milk.
HOW MUCH SUPER.?
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
lias heard that some southern-district wheat-
growers planned to sow their crops without
super.; and considers that it is a foolish
economy. It would be better to limit the
area to be cropped and reduce the quantity
of super., a departmental bulletin says in
effect, than to do without supper, altogether.
“If only Jcwt. per acre was applied as a
‘starter,’ ” the official writer declares, “it
would be of material benefit”; but this
amount is really not enough; “in southern
districts, on the average, a 25 per cent,
increase in yield could be expected as the
result of an application of super, per
acre.”
N. S. Wales farmers should realise, it is
pointed out, that “281 b. of the 22 per cent,
grade super, on the market is equivalent to
361 b. of the original 17 per cent, grade,
which was the average rate of application
to wheat crops 15 years ago. The in-
crease in yield resulting from an application
of 281 b. per acre over the yield of an un-
manured crop, approximating an 18 per cent,
increase, was far more striking than further
increases in yield as the result of heavier
applications. At the present cash price,
£4 10s. per ton, plus about 12s. per ton for
freight, the cost of a 281 b. application would
be Is. 3d. per acre, or a total cash outlay for
250 acres of £l5 12s. 6d. Where it can be
afforded, an application of 561 b. to 841 b. per
acre is recommended.”
NITROGEN DRESSINGS FOR WHEAT.
“Kowhai” : In Maoriland, where wheat is
grown on fertile, well-watered soil of the
highest quality, and the Dominion average
yield is over 30 bushels an acre, the rela-
tively high price of the land used renders
it of importance to stimulate production in
every possible way. In recent years super,
has been in almost universal use, and has
increased the yields on fair-average wheat-
growing land by four to six bushels an acre,
about IJcwt. per acre being generally
applied. In the last two years experiments
have been made with nitrogenous manures on
a Canterbury farm where the soil is a medium
silty loam that has borne good crops under
ordinary treatment. The seed was sown early
in June, 1929, and nitrogen was applied
to some plots in August, to some in Septem-
ber and to some in October. At each dress-
ing live different sorts of fertiliser were
used, and to check results there were distri-
buted among the nitrogen-treated plots con-
trol plots which had been given only super,
at the rate of 1801 b. to the acre.
All the nitrogenous manures gave an in-
creased yield, best results being obtained with
nitrate of soda, which furnished a yield of
over 10% bushels per acre more than came from
untreated plots. The most successful plots
under this manure were those treated in
September and October. But nitrate of soda,
which costs in M.L. 16s. per cwt. and was
spread at the rate of 1491 b. per acre, is
messy stuff to put through the drills. Apart
from labor costs, it showed a profit of 335.
an acre over untreated plots with wheat
at ss. per bushel (Maoriland doesn’t export
and fixes its own wheat prices). Better com-
mercial results were obtained from plots
dressed with sulphate of ammonia, 1121 b. to
the acre. This costs only 13s. per cwt., and
is easily applied. An increased yield of 9.3
bushels an acre showed a profit of 335. 6d.
Urea, a proprietary fertiliser, at 28s. 3d. per
cwt., spread 50ilb. to the acre, gave a profit
of 30s. 3d.; calcium cyanide, at 12s. 4d.
per cwt., applied 1211 b. to the acre, showed
a profit of 245. Bd.; and Calnitro, another
proprietary blend, sold at 15s. 9d. per cwt.,
spread lcwt to the acre, gave a profit of
18s. 9d.
The Agriculture Department, therefore, as
far as its investigations have gone, recom-
mends sulphate of ammonia as the most pro-
fitable nitrogenous wheat tonic. Best results
were obtained with this on plots top-dressed
in August. The wheat grow T n with am. sulph.
secured highest points in a laboratory test
to determine baking value.
WILLEYING WOOL.
“Dustholes”: The willeying process (B.
8/4/’3l) should be most helpful to back-
country or “outside” growers where sand
and Bathurst burr are prevalent. It has
been given a thorough test during the last
two years in South Aus. and the West Dari-
ing. A large percentage of foreign matter
can be knocked out. This varies according
to the dryness of the wool and its condition,
bU a UP
and an average of 3 l i • " -
tracted from backs and 1 .
Low-yielding wools that were processed
were principally of the sort previously bougnt
by local scourers, being too heavy in con-
dition to be shipped overseas m their original
state. The fibre of the wool was not injured,
and after treatment most of these wools were
bought for the Continent. An experience
with the machine on a large Darling run
may be mentioned. The number of grown sheep
shorn was 22,918. All dusty locks and backs
were treated, and from this wool ~8,9471b.
of foreign matter was extracted, approxi-
mately lilb. a head. The estimated saving
in freight, receiving and selling charges was
£l5O, and the price realised for wuleyed
hacks averaged 7d. a pound, whereas few
earthy backs from the Barrier district made
a pound in their original condition.
Allowing that 25 per cent, was knocked out,
the price received for the treated wool shows
considerably enhanced value.
In order to obtain best values, backs should
be sorted into fine and coarse quality and
all tar and paint brands removed before
treatment. This is now being done on many
stations and if the back is taken out of the
fleece on the rolling table and thrown into
different baskets and bins, separating quali-
ties from the rolling table, no further expense
is entailed. The machines will be trans-
ported from shed to shed during the forth-
coming se'ason, and much wool will be treated
in the Barrier district. The charges for
Bathurst-burred wool, which has to be put
through the machine twice, are Id. a pound
on the original weight, and for free backs
earthy fleece or locks, *d. a -Li
sorting is necessary the cost would be about
l|d. a pound on the ongmal weight. 1
charges cover the pressing, branding and
weighing of treated wool.
Ynrr\T\T iwn rnTTTr rrAT?prvr
WOOL AND THE TARPOT
‘Kripple : In my judgment, pastoiahsts
and other primary producers could, with
advantage to themselves and the country,
take, more interest in their produce att.ei
selling it. Almost any week at large Cjueens-
land saleyards the fleeces on sheep bought by
butchers can be seen being plastered with tar
brands ; and that after all the care and expense
on the pastoralists’ part to keep the wool clean.
Tar is anathema to any woolbuyer, and why
the damaging stuff should be used instead
of branding ink seems strange. Let the
butcher brand with what he likes, the
grower may say j “sheep and wool are his
now, and it’s his funeral.” But suppose
a woolbuyer comes along and sees the tar-
branded fleeces. Interested, he inquires, not
who owns the sheep, but “Where were these
sheep raised?” Informed, he makes a note:
“Tarpot Downs. Avoid.” At following wool
sales the clip from that quarter is deprived
of his and possibly some of his friends’ bids,
the suspicion having been sown that some-
where in the bales are fleeces stained with
the cursed tar. Fewer bids, lower values.
That is one form of back-kick from the
saleyard tarpot. Here is another. A pas-
toralist has been advised by his broker to
scour certain top lines. These have been pre-
ceded through the machine by the tar-stained
line from the saleyard, and the contaminated
scouring liquors have not been changed. (It
isn’t done after every lot going through.)
Those top lines cannot possibly receive full
justice. Lack of lustre may result, with con-
sequent lower values.
Thousands and thousands of sheep have
gone through the saleyards referred to and
received their application of the tar-brush,
The loss to growers, and more directly fell-
mongers, from such cause must run to big
figures.
LIVE AND DRESSED WEIGHTS.
. „ r\ i e * , Itt
“Grunter ’: Queensland farmers frequently
complain that the deduction made m their
State from the live weight of pigs sold over
the seales is .11 in the factories’ favor. the
assumption being that fats do not lose so
much in the dressing. With fat weights
SHfffi? f “
as equitable as it is possible for an average
to be. and is based on actual killing results
nt tho fnetnries
T .. ' ‘ ~ ~
Pigs dress according to the menu they
have been on. A pig fattened solely on
skun mflk lias been known to lose as much
as 40 p.c. between the sty and the curing-
room. Pait of this loss would be in travel-
ling alone. Gram-fed pigs travel an d kill
better. In any case, it is not to the advant-
age of the factories, co-operative or pro-
prietary, to have pigs (particularly top
weights) kill out below the percentage
allowed for. This means too big a per-
centage of fat bacon which, except for
our trifling export trade, is not readily
saleable.
COUCH GRASS
“Buckwong” : Couch grass, when it be-
comes an important element in pastures,
requires a certain amount of attention to
keep it in profitable order, as it is apt to go
SOUr ' and repel stock. Where it is practie-
abie keep it eaten down close during the
growing season, this will ensure its value
throughout the year. When it is closely
grazed into the cold weather other valuable
grasses come up through it, and supply feed
un tß the couch does its share in the spring;
English rye and white clover are especially
good for this. But usually couch seems
chiefly to occur in cattle-paddocks, where it
w j b quickly run rank. Where this is the
case it is rendered Useless by the first frost,
a n d the frost-bitten residue, instead of falling
down and rotting, like most dead herbage,
w ill persist at its full height and spoil the
ne w season’s growth.
if advantage is taken of dry, windy days
during winter to burn this dead stuff, it
will be found in spring that all stock are
especially keen upon the new growth. Owners
of small properties will find it profitable to
search out and burn every patchy of frost-
bitten couch, if only the size of a'room. If
a man does this he will find it a valuable
asset, instead of being a mere intruder upon
choicer herbage. For my own part I put a
match to any patch that will burn, even if
there is a luxuriant new growth through the
dead stuff, as I find that the renewed growth,
which comes in a few days, is more
relished by stock than any other herbage I
know off.
THE VALUE OF ASHES,
“Booraby” : As the cooking on most farms
ig done with wood fires d m tons
()f wood are so used in the
course of a year,
each ton making, roughly, a hundredweight
of asbeg> Ag a rule that va]uab i e residue
is thrown away, or, at best, it forms a heap
for the fowls to roll in. An ashheap is good
for the chooks; for all that, the ashes are
better used in the garden and field as a
fertiliser. They contain potash, lime, plios-
phates and other ingredients useful to plant
}if e< Gumwood is particularly rich in these
qualities. But all waste vegetable matter,
sue h as weeds and brush, and the stalks of
maize, shotild be burnt. The ash returns
to the god mineral matter that the plants
took ou t of it. In addition, the burning
ge t s r j d 0 f p es ts and plant diseases. Nothing
that has wilted or died from disease should
be bu ried, or allowed to lie about,
Every year there is a considerable quan-
tity of vegetable matter about the farm that
bas t 0 be destroyed. As far as possible this
should be burnt on the land that is to be
cultivated, as the burning itself has a ster-
jjising effect on the soil. Along gullies and
creeks and headlands there is usually much
rank growth that is only harboring vermin.
That should be cut and forked into heaps
0 n the cultivation area, and there burnt
when thoroughly dry.
On numerous N.S.W. farms I have seen
tons of debris, including logs and branches,
thrown into a bordering gully, or down the
bank of a creek. This common farm rubbish-
tip is a convenient breeding-place for many
kinds of pests; it makes an untidy mess,
and represents a loss to the soil that
could be saved by burning. As an illustra-
tion of the importance of ashes and burning,
a pumpkin vine planted where a stump has
been burnt out shows more vigorous growth
and fecundity than vines planted else-
where.
POTASH FOR TOMATOES,
“Wilt Resistant”: Last season I experi-
mented with fertiliser on tomatoes in North
Queensland. The soil is a rich deep alluvial
loam. A complete fertiliser was used, the
potash as sulphate; content, according
to manufacturers’ label, 10 per cent. Four
plots were set out: No 1 was unfertilised,
No. 2 supplied at 1101 b., No. 3 at 2201 b.,
&nd N at 3301 b. pe ’ r acre. Results:
N 9 increased yield of 37 6 per
- N ® a 'o na ,of 5 4 uer cent and No 4
s|| “nt, all as Jm-
n ‘ d witbtbp unfertilised Dlot
P „fter the experiment was concluded
« S vwtffisa
31/ 12 / 30) and Bar K s (B. 25/2/ 61)
leads me to conclude that the sulphate
potash combining with this iron caused the
decreasing results in my experiment. A
reference ° t 0 the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture elicited that “the use of sul-
hate of potagh on tomatoes in the glass-
£ouge at Hawkesbury College gave detri-
mental resu it s in early stages of growth.” I
was a i so advised that in view of the large
q Uan tit y 0 f iron in my soil basic super,
1
(Continued on page 26.)


:
WmlLw
■K.
A body of local manufacture
for every haulage requirement
LONG - LIFE
AND
ECONOMY
LEADERSHIP
based upon
ENGINEERING
LEADERSHIP
Reo Trucks in 14 wheelbase
sizes provide a sturdy de-
pendable chassis for 93%
of all hauling needs and for
’buses of various passenger
capacities. Load capacities
from f-ton up through the
heavy duty range.
Quality engineering underlies the long-life and economy records of the
two-ton Reo Speed Waggon.
Comparison reveals that its pressed steel frame, with heavy steel cross
members, is greatly oversize.
The four-forward-speed transmission, integral with the Reo Gold Crown
Engine, insures surplus pulling power for every road condition.
The facts about Speed Waggon superiority are highly interesting—and
vital to truck-users. Let us present them for your consideration.
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
171-175 William Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
REO STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEEN’S BRIDGE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Queen’s Bridge Square, Melbourne, Vic.
REO MOTORS (SALES), LTD.,
96-100 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
DENNY BROS., LTD.,
439-447 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
Barry Parade, The Valley, Brisbane, Queensland.
REO
REO MOTOR
SPEED WAGONS
AND TRUCKS
CAR COMPANY, LANSING


In
v\
If>
3
SSsH
Here’s perfect ease!
A glossy, black velour calf Abbey
Shoe of the utmost pliancy, made in
four fittings.... narrow, medium,
wide and extra-wide. . . .for each full
and half size. The sole is tough and
durable, the upper low-cut at ankle.
It arches over the instep in the most
comfortable way. . . .lacing closely
and neatly without any straining
tightness. This is a special feature
of Abbey footwear.
ORDER BY POST.
Specify width as well as length, and
order, also, the correct Abbey Pre-
servative Polish' (6d. per tin), or a
handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 225.
if any illustration in "‘The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
RAYOVAC
Flashlights «Batteries« Radio Tubes
ELECTRIC TORCH
With the
ĕ
ROTOMATIC SWITCH
The GREAT Battery Economist
The constant purchase of
batteries is due in no small
way to the light being turned
on accidenaltly The
ROTOMAtIC SWITCH in-
sures you against waste of
batteries..... Always lights
when you want it.
Positive prevention against
accidental battery discharge.
Manufacturer’a Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vic.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A.
• ft 3
A A
A A
' o
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
|DIRECT^IEbjUM^WgMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFI! E,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ė
would be worth while. This is a recommen-
dation similar to “Bar K.’s” and is in line
with his contention that sulphate of potash
combining with iron in the soil forms an
insoluble compound. His theory is further
supported by tlie experience of my neighbors,
who have obtained no beneficial results from
the use of super.
Against this our local instructor tells me
that the form of iron mentioned is not taken
into account by soil chemists. Their iron is
ferrous oxide, the stuff that gives red soil
its color. “K. Alwyn” (B. 4/3/’3l) suggests
that potash fails in ironstone country because
sufficient potash is already there, but offers
no evidence in support. Carry on!
DON’TS FOR SODIUM CII'LORATE-
USERS.
“B. Careful”: Sodium chlorate, so much
used as a spray for weed destruction, is a
very dangerous chemical. Observance of the
following rules should make for safe handling :
(1) Don’t take it out of the original drum
until you have to, and if you have to store
it elsewhere put it in tins—on no account
in bags or kegs or anything inflammable.
(2) Don’t spill the stuff on a wooden floor
or allow it to come into contact with any-
thing that will burn.
(3) Don't neglect to wash your clothes
thoroughly immediately after spraying. Safest
way is to wear an oilskin or rubber-jacket
and rubber-leggings or gumboots, which
should be well rinsed in running water when
work is finished.
(4) Don’t handle the stuff roughly. It is
liable to explode by percussion or friction,
so don’t drop it on a concrete floor when
unloading or put it. where it may receive a
violent knock.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
My horse has a white spot on his eye
which affects his sight. It looks as if it
might have been caused by a poke with a
stick. What’s the best treatment? —2558.
Instil into the eye with an eye-dropper
once daily for three weeks’ a solution of
nitrate of silver, 4gr.; distilled water, loz.
What varieties of asparagus grow best in
Victoria? —2890.
Conover’s Colossal is the commercial
asparagus most commonly grown. Palmetto
is another good variety, rather earlier than
the former. Argenteuil Purple is also
favored, being very tender; it is much grown
in localities where asparagus rust is preva-
lent. Deering’s Mammoth is a locally-raised
variety which under good culture produces
very large thick stems of first-class quality
and flavor. ’
How should diseased plants or specimens
of insects be packed to forward to the
N.S.W. ■ Agriculture Department? —27sB.
When forwarding insects, send a number
if tliey are numerous, together with a portion
of the plant on which they are feeding; also
such data (nature of attack, whether the
plants have been sprayed, and if so what
with, etc.) as seems likely to be useful in
making a recommendation for control. Enclose
in a tin or box (not a matchbox) from which
living insects cannot escape, and sufficiently
strong to go through the post without
damage. Diseased plants should be accom-
panied by a letter giving as much in-
formation as possible. Specimens should be
addressed to the Entomologist or to the
Biologist (according to the nature of the
inquiry), Dept, of Agriculture, Box 36a,
G.P.0., Sydney.
(1) What are prospects for a man with
small capital wishing to enter the poultry
industry in N. S. Wales, egg production only?
(2) Price of five to fifteen acres of virgin land
situated convenient to Sydney markets? (3)
Where can such land be obtained? (4) With
up-to-date plant, buildings, equipment, etc.,
and capable feeding and attention to poultry,
what is the average of eggs per year per hen,
cost for all feed per head (none produced by
farmer) and average price of eggs per dozen
for 12 months? (5) What is the probable
average net profit for a poultry-farm running
2000 laying hens for a year, consideration
being given to all sources of revenue and all
expenditure, save interest on capital and
icagcs? —24BB.
(1) The poultry expert of the N.S.W.
Agriculture Department states, that with
sufficient capital, experience and aptitude the
prospects are good. The capital required is
£4OO for material and plant for a farm of
800 layers. To this would have to be added
the cost of five acres of suitable land and,
of course, the residence. The farmer must
also have sufficient to live on for two years,
whilst building up the laying flocks to
profit. During that time assets are made
in the form of stock but little revenue would
be gained. (2) Values for suitable land
range from £25 to £lOO per acre, or £4O to
£lOO with city water and other facilities.
(3) Almost any district within 50 miles of
Sydney is suitable for poultry-farming, but
the Parramatta, Penrith, Liverpool, Camp-
helltown and Hornsby-Wyong districts are
principally favored. (41 Average production
per hen on a good, well-cared-for farm is
12 dozen eggs p.a. The cost of feed based
on market prices during 1930-31 was 7s. 3d.
per head, and the average net price of eggs
during the same period, allowing cartage,
commission, etc., was Is. 34d. per dozen.
(5) Allowing wages of one hand, £BOO per
annum. This amount is based on an average
for the past ten years. It does not include
interest on capital or depreciation on plant
and buildings.
I am a partner in a N.S.W. cattle station,
purchased in June, 1929, the terms providing
that £lOOO be paid off the principal in June,
1931. We will not be able to meet this
obligation. Gan the bank foreclose on us, or
can we apply for relief under the Moratorium
Act? —2477.
If security for the payment of the money
has been granted “over land or chattels or
anv interest therein respectively,” and this
includes a deposit of title deeds with your
banker, the transaction is covered by the
\ct and so long as interest is paid you
cannot be put out of possession till April,
1933.
• HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Floodmark”: No ordinary steel dogtrap
will hold wombats; when caught, they simply
pull their feet out. A neighbor has overcome
this difficulty by tying a small log to the
trap, instead of making the trap a fixture;
this results in the wombat leaving a plain
trail with the dragging log, and invariably he
is found somewhere handy.
“Grunter”: In southern Queensland, if the
season is wet and bark is stripping freely,
the later the ringbarking the better the
results. The axe can work right up to the
frosts. If it is a mild “drooping” winter,
ringing carried on right through gives the
highest percentage of kills —at least, that
is my experience. Suckering should not be
tackled until the suckers are in their second
year. The basis of success is to get the
sucker to come away, knob and all. Small
suckers are liable to break off, leaving the
knob behind. Don’t use the blade of the
axe: the back makes a cleaner and surer job.
“Kingaroy” : I disagree with “Crossbred’s”
assertion (B. 4/3/’3l) that pigs will clean
up noxious weeds, burr, couch and paspalum.
I am busy ploughing out all these things, par-
ticularly couch, in a paddock where pigs
have been running for two years. They cer-
tainly give couch and paspalum a good stir-
ring up, but this only improves them. In
any case the stake fence “C.” suggests won’t
hold Dennis while he’s doing ci'en that,
though it will on a good lucerne patch, with
plenty of shade and water to keep him con-
tented.
“J.W.W.”: Let us forget our troubles for
a moment and count our blessings, those of
us who have wheat on hand. No energetic
man in this position need want, at any rate.
He can have milk, cream, eggs, bacon, pork,
beef, lamb, turkey, butter, goose, fowl, whole-
meal bran, pollard and flour. Wheatmcal
can be ground at home with a little grinder
now on the market. It is excellent for por-
ridge, scones and bread. And a capital sub-
stitute for coffee is ground-up bran mixed
with treacle and dried. Both for our health
and our pocket “Use more wheat” is the best
slogan for Australia to-day. Let us farmers
set Australia the example.
“Pick” : If a two-man crosscut-saw has to
be operated by one man, prevent end vibra-
tion by using a light flexible pole as a blade
brace. With the handsaw make a 4in.
lengthwise cut in each end of the pole, which
should be 12in. longer than the saw. Bind
with wire above cuts to guard against split-
ting. Force one end cut over tbe blade at
one handle, then bend the pole over, and
press the other end down against the other
handle. Then the tool will retain rigidity and
work smoothly.
“Disc Harrow”: A week of heavy rain
arrived just when the orchard was ready
for the lime-sulphur sprays. When I tried
to get on with the job, the pump was hope-
lessly bogged in the first minute. The apples
had to get the spray, and it didn’t much
matter how the ground was messed up; so I
hitched the tractor on the front. This also
dug into the ground to the axles till I tried
going sideways. When the ground is ploughed
in the same direction every year, a ridge
of harder soil is left in line with each row.
By going in jumps across the rows, with
pauses when Lizzie was level with each row,
I got the work done.
“Golightly”: An easy method of hanging
woolpacks as temporary bins. Suspend four
pieces of No. 8 fencing-wire from shed
rafters or convenient timbers, and to the
ends fasten rings from an old liobble-chain,
or make loops of the wire itself. Then thrust
corner of pack through rings or loops and
pin it there with a stout Gin. nail or
a piece of No. 6 fencing wire. This is
quicker than most other methods. When
packs are full skewers are easily withdrawn,
bales promptly released, pinned up with
bale-clips and rolled aside.
“Diinon”: Sometimes it is necessary to
fence off a bend of a creek or a corner of
the farm. In such places the “dog-leg” does
well, and also across swamps and marshes
and through thin scrubs. Stout forks or
small blocks, sunk a foot in the ground,
and standing 15in. to 18in., may be used for
the bottom rail. Across that lean two stout
stakes, one on each side and sunk about
Gin. in the ground, to form the fork for the
next rail. These are placed 12ft. to 15ft.
apart, but the rails may be any length; the
longer they are the stronger the fence. Two
rails generally suffice, but a third may be
added in the same way. For neatness, cut
tops of stakes off a little above the rails.
Where long, straight saplings are available,
this fence can be put up quickly, and is
easy to repair.
“Jack Point” : To be successful with fowls
you must breed from those hens which lay
earliest, other things being equal. Mark them
with bands —blue for those which lay at 18
weeks or under, red for 18 to 20 weeks,
yellow for 20 to 22 weeks, and so on. Then
when it comes to selecting your breeders
you know where to start. Of course, other
points must be considered, such as size of
egg and number laid (if available), but it
will be found in most cases that the bird
which shows most rapid growth and lays
early will measure up to requirements in
other 1 directions.
From J. R. Fletcher, of the International
Harvester Co.: —
Touching the invention of the reaper (B. 25/3/’3l).
In 1816 Robert McCormick, father of Cyrus Hall
McCormick, made the first of several attempts to
build a mechanical reaper. This machine was pushed
ahead into the grain by two horses, the wheat
being pressed against stationary convex sickles by
rapidly revolving beaters; but it failed to cut the
grain. During the next 15 years Robert made fruitless
attempts to revive bis scheme; his son possibly
helped him to prepare his last machine for its
unsuccessful trial in May, 1831. Between May and
July of that year, Cyrus Hall McCormick, then 22,
conceived his own new principles, built one or more
models and developed a machine which cut grain
successfully. His first reaper was built in six weeks
at the most; he gave his first public trial in July,
1831. The young man patented his reaper in 1834,
and in 1840 commenced to seek a market for it.
In 1851 he showed it at the World’s Fair in London,
where the Royal Commissioners awarded to it the
Council Medal. The “Times” said that the Mc-
Cormick reaper was worth the whole cost of that
exhibition, adding, “The reaping machine from the
United States is the most valuable contribution from
abroad to the stock of our previous knowledge that
we have yet discovered.”


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right _of selection and rejection is reserved.
"Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Storekeeper and book-keeper (32), 9 years’ gen-
eral exp., at present in Islands store, wants position
in Australia.—276B.
' oung married man, Sydney, estate-agency exp.’,
book-keeper, knowledge motor repairs, seeks any
job anywhere. Refs. —2769.
Engineer (30) wants position as mechanic on
Q’land or N.S.W.. station. Qualified steam and oil.
Exp. all cars, pumps, repairs.—2741.
Married man (31), N.S.W., wants position as work-
ing-manager of sheep property. Ten years’ exp.
Knowledge of windmills and engines, G.P.S. educa-
tion.—274B.
Young lady, Sydney, typist and shorthand-writer,
seeks commercial position.—27ss.
Married man, Sydney, book-keeper and accountant,
exp. as traveller wants position city or country.—
2790.
loung man (26), N.S.W., used all farm and station
work, some years manager dairy farm, seeks posi-
tion.—279s.
Middle-aged man, Sydney, wants job as caretaker
or watchman.—2B2l.
Accountant (23), N.S.W., single, M.B.C. trained,
second place final law, studying, desires position,
country preferred.—2Bo6.
Boy (15), Sydney, wants position on farm, orchard
or station.—2Bls.
Hduseman-cook (Melb.), ex-steward, seeks situation
(all duties) anywhere. Refs.—2Bo3.
Lady, physical-culture teacher, Vic., wants posi-
tion, eastern States, or as companion-help, governess :
music.—2Bo4.
To buy book dealing with early Australian history,
old almanacs, letters, etc.—27B9.
To buy, second-hand, Hayes’s “Book of the Horse,”
Crew s Animal Genetics,” Finlay’s “Cattle Breeding’’
and Gay’s “Breeds of Livestock.”—277l. '
To exchange second-hand typewriter for copy of
“Australian Encyclopaedia.”—27s6.
To get in touch with book collectors with a view
to forming a club. —2802.
To buy metal buttons of all descriptions, including
obsolete Australian military ones. —2817.
To exchange modern novels for books by Australian
authors.—27lo.
Words of verse about a boundary-rider who turned
Indian.—27l4.
Information Sought.
Our grandstand has three flagpoles—one
at each end and one in the centre. On Ansae
Day last year we flew the Australian flag in
the centre. Were we right? —2s72.
There is no regulation governing the posi-
tions in which the Australian flag and the
Union Jack are flown when more* than one
pole is used. When only one pole is used
both flags are flown from a yardarm, one
never being flown over the other. You
can’t go wrong if you leave the centre pole
bare and fly the Australian flag on one end
pole and the Union Jack on the other.
What arc suitable materials for the con-
struction of a folding boat? —2so7.
The best material for framing is cedar,
though kauri and Huon pine are both good
and cheaper. For covering use Birkmyre’s
cloth, either brown or olive shade. If unpro-
curable use ordinary good quality duck. The
material should be coated with boiled linseed
oil to which has been added a little soft soap.
(1) Under what conditions and at what
times are persons permitted to copy paint-
ings at the Sydney Art Gallery? (2) Are
visitors permitted to photograph exhibits? —
2732.
(1) At all times, subject to the approval of
the Director. Copies must not be the same
size as the originals. (2) Under certain con-
ditions, yes; but not for commercial pur-
poses unless approved by the Director, and
then only on payment of a fee of £lO 10s.
t How was prohibition ctiactcd in the
U.S.A.? Is it true that the country was
caught napping? —276o.
The amendment to the Constitution that
made the republic theoretically ‘“dry” was
brought about just after the entry of the
TJ.S.A. into the Great War. The Senate on
August 1,1917, passed a resolution recommend-
ing the amendment to the States by a vote
of 65 to 20, and the House passed it by
282 to 128 with some small verbal alterations.
The Senate accepted the amendment on
Dec. 17, 1917. It was ratified by 36 States
(the necessary majority) by January 16,
1919, and has since been ratified by all save
three States. In view of the time occupied
by these proceedings it cannot be said that
the legislatures concerned were caught nap-
ping.
Is the bonito-fish plentiful on the Aus-
tralian coast? Is it good to eat, and what
are its habits? —2Boo.
It is an inhabitant of the open ocean,
rarely venturing into coastal inlets. The
flesh is red and oily, and is considered of
little value as food.
What is a pundit? —27Bs.
A learned man or a teacher, particularly
one skilled in Sanscrit and Hindu law, reli-
gion and philosophy. In India, before the
institution of the High Courts in 1862, there
was a law officer styled the Pundit of the
Supreme Court, who advised the English
Judges on points of Hindu law. The term
is frequently applied derisively to learned
persons and to those who claim the right
by long experience to lay down the law or
dictate principles of conduct.
When were dum-dum bullets first used, and
by xchom? Where were they made? In
what manner do they differ from the ordi-
nary bullet? —2794.
The hollow-nosed “dum-dum” (Mark iv)
bullets, the supposed use of which by the
British during the Boer War caused con-
siderable comment in 1899, were manufac-
tured at the foundry at Dum-Dum (India).
Their peculiarity consisted in their expand-
ing on impact and thus creating an ugly
wound, and they had been adopted in Indian
frontier fighting owing to the failure of
the usual type of bullets to stop the rushes
of fanatical tribesmen. . They were not, in
fact, used during the Boer War. Other and
improvised forms of expanding bullet were
used in India and the Sudan, the commonest
method of securing expansion being to file
down the point until the lead core was
exposed, and to make longitudinal slits in
the nickel envelope. All these bullets have
come to be described colloquially, and even
in diplomatic correspondence, as “dum-dum
bullets,” and their alleged use by Russian
troops in the Russo-Japanese War formed
the subject of a protest on the part of the
Japanese Government.
(1) What is the reputation of the Murray
cod as a table fish ? (2) Average length and
weight? (3) When do Sydney and other
markets receive consignments, and is the
supply adequate? —2773.
(1) Excellent. Its keeping qualities are
good, and the flesh is white, firm and of a
delicate flavor. It is adapted to prepara-
tion in a variety of methods. (2) The
biggest weigh 1001 b. and upwards, with a
length approaching sft., but the average
length of those marketed is about 18in. (3)
Sydney, only during the colder months, owing
to the distance to be traversed and rapid
deterioration during the warm months ; Mel-
bourne and Adelaide, throughout the year.
The supply has been gradually decreasing
during recent years owing to indiscriminate
netting and the destruction of the young
fry by birds. The present annual yield
approximates 200 tons.
(1) Is it better to sell a musical com-
position outright or take royalties? (2) A
music firm put me in touch with a verse-
writer. Does the publisher pay him or do
I pay him and charge extra? (3) Can I
reserve mechanical rights and what terms
should I ask for? (4) One publisher wants
me to pay production expenses and he to
sell on a commission basis. Anything in
that?— 277B.
(1) Unless the offer is unusually tempt-
ing and you can’t come to any other arrange-
ment, a royalty • basis is to be preferred—
-2d per copy in the case of a first effort is
a fair thing. (2) Best let him negotiate
with the publisher. (3) Yes. Forty per
cent, to yourself and 30 per cent, each to the
lyric-writer and publisher is usual. Should
you write the words and music, you are
entitled to 70 per cent. In the case of
instrumental or orchestral music you and
the publisher should get 50 per cent. each.
(4) If the music is of sufficient merit to
warrant publication, the publisher ought to
take the risks.
Is an American inch the same as a British
inch, and if there is any difference, how
much would it amount to in 1000 miles? —
2546.
For all practical purposes they are the
same, _ but a matter of fine exactitude
there is a difference, the British inch running
39.370113 to the metre, while the American
inch runs. 39.37. One thousand miles British
measure is 1000 m. 15ft. I.Bin. in American
measure.
(1) What amount of debt must a man
have to go into voluntary liquidation? (2).
Cost, and allowances made for livelihood
while proceedings are going through? (3)
Must all household furniture and effects be
sold, including bedding, etc? (4) Are furni-
ture and linen and household effects owned by
the wife before marriage deemed the hus-
band’s property and sold for his debts?-
2641.
(1) No specific amount. (2) No fixed
charge; depends on circumstances. (3)
Tools of trade, necessary articles for self
and wife, such as clothing, etc., are exempt
from division between creditors. (4) No,
they are her separate estate and not affected
by her husband’s bankruptcy.
(1) A and B jointly own a business. A
sells his half-share to B. B gives A a mort-
gage for the amount. A then buys a busi-
ness from C. A cannot meet his payments,
and forfeits the business to C. Has C any
claim on the mortgage B gave to A? (2)
What is the procedure under Vie. law when
a mortgage is lifted from a property owing
to payment of amount in full? —2639.
(1) If the forfeiture of the business to
C satisfies his claim that is an end to the
matter. But if A is further indebted to C
or others and unable to' meet his liabilities
(up to a sum or sums of £5O) then C or
the other creditors may instigate proceedings
for sequestrating A’s estate, in which case
the mortgage would .become an asset. (2)
Usually by a discharge endorsed on the
mortgage deed.
Borne time ago I guaranteed a friend’s
overdraft at my bank for £.lOOO. The over-
draft was extended to £llOO, when the bank
notifiedme that my friend was putting no
business through their hands and that I was
held liable for the debt, (1) Can I be held
responsible for the full £1100? (2) Am 1
responsible for interest due and, if so, from
what date? (3) Must the bank give me
formal notice before debiting me with the
amount ? —2523.
(1) You arc responsible up to £lOOO. (2)
Yes, from the date the guarantee became
operative. (3) No special form of legal
demand is required.
/ am the holder of a second mortgage on
a N.B.W. town property; I advanced the
money on the advice of the bank which
holds the first mortgage. In the event of
the mortgagor failing to pay interest on what
I have lent will the bank, protect me? 2596
The bank will look after itself first. There
is nothing in the Moratorium Act to pre-
vent you suing for interest.
The mortgage agreement on my homd,
drawn up in 1918, contains a clause exclud-
ing me from relief under any moratorium.
All interest and rates have been paid to date,
and repayment of principal is due on Janu-
ary 1 next. (1) Does the N.B.W. Mortorium
Act apply? (2) Would it be advisable to
ask the mortgagee to extend the term and
to register a variation of mortgage or to
just carry on as now till April 30, 1933 f—
-2599.
(1) General opinion is that such a clause
will not prevail against the existing mora-
torium. (2) The mortgagee, whether he
consents to renew or not, cannot, without
leave of the Court, demand payment of the
principal during the term of the moratorium.
(1) Must a mortgage on house property
(M.S'.W.) that is shortly falling due be re-
newed if the borrower is not prepared to
P a/ y off? (2) If so, could a clause be in-
serted. to safeguard the lender against
inflation when the mortgage is renewed? —
2586.
(1) The mortgagee may renew, but,
whether he does so or not, the moratorium
is a bar against foreclosure until April
30, 1933. (2) Sqch a provision would re-
quire very dexterous legal drafting to make
ir effective.
I agreed by letter to purchase a new
machine and found on its arrival a large
craclc in the main bearing. I returned, the
machine and have now been billed with the
cost, plus rail charges to return. How do
I stand? —2s37.
On the facts as stated you need accept
no liability.
In what manner and to what extent are
poor persons in N.B.W. given legal aid by
the Government? —2644.
Under the Poor Prisonei’s’ Defence Act,
1907, a person committed for trial for an
indictable offence may apply for legal aid
for his defence before the jury is sworn.
If the Judge or committing magistrate con-
siders that the person is without adequate
means, and that such legal aid should be
supplied, the Attorney-General may arrange
for the defence of the accused and for pay-
ment of expenses of all material witnesses.
The Poor Persons’ Legal Remedies Act,
1918, authorises Judges to make rules regu-
lating the practice and procedure and the
costs and fees payable in respect of proceed-
ings to which poor persons are parties. Such
proceedings may not be instituted without
permission, and Judges to whom applications
for permission are made are authorised
to act as conciliators. The rules made under
this Act do not apply to criminal proceed-
ings. Barristers and solicitors have enrolled
under this Act to give their services free of
charge on being assigned to a proper case.
Out-of-pocket expenses are paid by the
Crown.
How are cinema cartoons such as the
“Mickey the Mouse” series produced? Are
all the jokes originated and the pictures
drawn by one artist? —2594.
In the case of the “Mickey the , Mouse”
series, which is typical of all others, Walter
Disney, the creator of “Mickey,” evolves the
general idea in collaboration with members
of his studio staff; scenario-writers compose
a script; adapters arrange it in scenes,
designs and shots; the scenic department
evolves backgrounds. The actual drawing
is done by Disney’s assistants. “Animators”
draw the beginning and the end of each
motion; “in-betweeners” produce the hun-
dreds of drawings, minutely changed in each
sequence, that give the impression of motion;
“inkers” transfer the drawings to celluloid
strips by tracing with ink. In photograph-
ing the backgrounds are placed behind the
celluloid. Other workers attend to sound
synchronisation.
(1) If I apply for a provisional patent
for a mechanical device am I told whether
the idea is eligible for a full patent? (2)
If it is not, is the money paid refunded?
(3) What firm should I consult concerning
the probable usefulness, manufacture and
marketing of my invention? It involves
light castings , gearing, etc. —2520.
(1) and (2) No. (3) Submit full details
of your device to a patent attorney with
instructions to search records and report
regarding patentability. This will cost about
two or three guineas, according to time taken.
After an application for patent is filed, but
not before, you can safely approach manu-
facturers. Your attorney will advise you in
this regard.
What are the finest melodies ever written?
can you name 40 f —1199.
We wouldn’t dare to attempt it. But a
very eminent musician, Mark Hambourg,
the pianist, once upon a time compiled a
list. His choice was: (1) “Auld Lang
Syne.” (2) “Home Sweet Home.” (3)
“Song of the Volga Boatmen.” (4) “La
Marseillaise.” (5) “Old Folks at Home.”
(6) “Londonderry Air.” (7) “Annie Laurie.”
(8) “Ivol Nidrei.” (9) “The Old Hundredth.”
(10) Haydn’s “Hymn to the Emperor.” (11)
Chopin’s “Funeral March.” (12) Beet-
hoven’s “Funeral March.” (13) Handel's
“Dead March.” (14) Mendelssohn’s “Wed-
ding March.” (15) Wagner’s “Bx-idal
Chorus” from “Lohengrin.” (16' Elgar's
“Land of Hope and Glory.” (17) Bach's
“Air on the G String” (violin). (18
and 19) Handel’s “Largo in G” and “Har-
monious Blacksmith.” (20, 21, 22 and 23)
Beethoven’s “Waldstein” Sonata rondo, slow
movement in the “Appasionata” Sonata, first
movement of the “Moonlight” Sonata and
opening theme of the string quartet in F,
Op. 59. (24, 25, 26 and 27) Schubert's
“Wanderer,” “Sylvia,” “Serenade” and
“Moment Musical in F minor.” (28, 29,
30, 31, 32 and 33) Schumann’s “Nussbaum,”
“Mondnacht,” “Widmung,” “Du Meiner
Selle; Du mein H’erz !” “Warum” and the
first movement of Schumann’s pianoforte con-
certo in A minor. (34, 35, 36. 37 and 38 )
Chopin’s Nocturne in E flat, Etude in E,
Op. 10, Prelude in A flat, Scherzo in
C sharp minor and “Minute Waltz,” Op.
60. (39) Cesar Franck’s Sonata for violin
and piano. (40) Rubinstein’s “Melody in
F.” But, of course, the list can’t end there.
The melodies of opera, waltzes such as the
“Blue Danube,” and such unforgettable gems
as the intermezzo from “Cavalleria liusti-
cana” and Schumann’s “Traumerei” can’t
be squeezed out.
Brief Answers.
D. 8.: Twenty-seven is too old. Recruiting
for the foot branch of the N.S.W. police has been
temporarily discontinued... .H.M.F.: In America the
ton (known as the short ton) weighs 20001 b. The
cental of 1001 b. takes the place of the hundredweight
in the English long ton. .. .W.C.: The English Derby
this year will be run on June 3. The course is exactly
one mile four furlongs... .J.P.L.K.: The Chelsea
and the Bow potteries were established before 1750,
and those of Derby and Worcester shortly after
that date... .L.S.F.: “Combe” or “coomb,” a term
particularly in use in south-western England for a
short closed-in valley on the side of a down or
running up from the sea M. J. 8.: Departmental
experts say it would be too costly to establish a
plant to do the work on a small scale... .E.U.D.:
The tobacco expert, Agriculture Department, Sydney,
will help y0u....M.8.: Statistics on the subject are
not compiled... .J.R.H.: Write Home Recreations,
Ltd., 105 King-street, Sydney... .R.C.: Apply to
steamship cos. and shipping agents. .. .W.R.M.: From
Pekin to Hankow by rail takes 35 hours, from
Shanghai to Pekin 36 hours. .. .R.F.: lodine was
discovered in 1812 by Courtois, when investigating
products obtained from burnt seaweed. .. .E.G.C.:
A. H. Clark, Spence-street, Cairns (N.Q.) ... .H.D.:
Maude Jeffries, the actress, married James Nott
Osborne... .M.E.D.: The skull was discovered
in 1912 at Piltdown, Sussex, and ascribed
to primitive man of early Paleolithic times....
S.M.: Get in touch with the Chief Inspector, Pure
Food Supervision Branch, Health Department, Syd-
ney ... .W.S.P.: J. L. Trefle, M.L.A., was elected
member for Castlereagh in 1906, and represented
that electorate till his death on Jan. 11, 1915. He
held the Lands and Agriculture portfolios at various
times in the 22nd Parliament... .L.E.J.: Brisbane
Uni. grants a diploma of journalism to persons who
have had at least three years’ practical experience
and who complete a two-years’ course of study....
C. J.: It is doubtful whether you would succeed, and
law costs would probably be greater than expense
of repairs... .R.11.H.: No employment there for
outsiders... .P.J.: Returns are not necessary....
K.R. and J.H.R.: Pamphlet on tobacco-growing is
obtainable from Agriculture Department, Sydney;
samples of seed from experimental farm, Bathurst.
Tobacco-growing has been tried in irriga-
tion areas and has proved a risky undertaking....
G.R.: You are liable to pay unemployment relief
tax in respect of the amount of wages and keep....
S.H.: (1) The sewerage system is in operation at Goul-
burn reformatory. (2) The prisoners earn bonus in
accordance with the work performed. (3) Not at
Goulburn. (4) Question too indefinite. .. .R.A.: Write
Agriculture Department, Sydney, for pamphlet “Some
Common Internal Parasites of the Horse”... .A.L.C.:
Get in touch with Mr. Mactier, stock inspector
at Tibooburra, who can advise... .E.S.F.: Ask
dealer to get you a “Model-A Instruction
Book”... .K.C.: Write Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney, for “Wood Borers,”
by Roughley and Welch (Is.) ... . J.S.: (1) The
luggage allowance on the Perth-Derby air route is
251 b. free to each passenger. Excess luggage Is.
per pound. (2) W. A. Airways, Ltd., 35 A.M.P.
Chambers, Perth. .. .D.C.: See the Secretary, New
Settlers’ League, Immigration Depot, Kangaroo Point,
Brisbane... .H.P.: “Yellow cross” was the name
given to a German poison-shell containing an oil
of which the effect was to blister the eyes, mouth,
armpits and other sensitive skin surfaces. More
commonly known as “mustard gas” .... S.T.: Honey
produced in Australia for year ending June 30, 1929,
was 10,863,9671 b., valued at £212,443. Vic. pro-
vided the largest proportion... .A.M.K.: The Gov-
ernor-General of Canada is appointed by the King,
usually for a term of five years, with a. salary of
£lO,OOO p.a E.F.A.: Write to the Commissioner,
Metropolitan Transport Trust, Phillip-street, Sydney.
. ...L.D.C.: Yellaloo (“together”), Milpera (“com-
pany”), Goonegah (“corroboree ground”), Brewongle
(“camping-place”)... .F.L.: Noel Coward is 31.
He was not at a university; 111 Ebuny-street,
London, 5.W.1... .8.N.; Write Secretary, Air
Board, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne.... D.C.: The
fee for the B.A. degree at Sydney Uni. is £3. If a
candidate fails it is not returned, and for re-examina-
tion the fee is again charged.... E.A.: W r e have no
knowledge of China clay being used for wool-scouring
in Australia. It is used to a limited extent in
Europe for the manufacture of scouring soaps, but
is not generally regarded as a suitable scouring
agent... .T. 11.: Italians headed the list of recipients
of certificates of naturalisation in Australia during
1929. There were 690 of them. Next came 307
Greeks; then 122 Jugo-Slavs. ...A.J.D.: The world’s
production of zinc in 1928 was 1,407,700 tons, of
which Australia contributed 168,200 tons. Higher
zinc-piroducing countries that year were U.S.A.,
553,200 tons, and Belgium 206,000 tons R.L.8.:
Polehampton’s “Kangaroo Land” (1862) is worth
about 7s. 6d. ; so is Henry Brown’s “Victoria As I
Found It” (1862). Musgrave’s “Castaway on the
Auckland Islands” (1865) is worth about 17s. 6d
E. J.: The Dorrigo left Brisbane for Thursday Island
and foundered off Double Island point on April 5,
1926; two lives were saved on a raft; 22 were
lost. .. .A.U.T.: From the Stamp Duties office, 150
Phillip-street, Sydney... .R. 8.: (1) “Mount Eliza,”
Frankston (Vic.). (2) Three years at Children’s
Hospital, Carlton, and six months at General Hos-
pital, Melbourne. . . .U.8.P.: (1) and (2) Yes. (3)
Yes. The Rice Marketing Board, Kurrajong-avenue,
Leeton (N.S.W.). (4) No. (5) Yes R.R.R.: (1)
Passengers’ personal effects, furniture and household
goods which have been in use by such passengers
for at least one year, not exceeding £lOO in value
for each adult passenger (two members of a family,
being children, may be reckoned as one adult), are
admitted, free. (2) Can’t quote without further par-
ticulars. (3) First-class, 2241 b.; second-class, 1681 b.
... .D.R.M.T.: (1) and (2) Prospects are very slight.
When vacancies occur they are advertised. (3)
Either by joining an aero club or obtaining training-
through the R.A.A.F V. 0.: “For Sale” notices
are not admitted in the Service Page.... J.G.S.:
Write Town Clerk, Municipal Chambers, North Syd-
ney (N.S.W.) ... .A.M.N: The chance of your violin
being a genuine Guarnerius is remote. Submit
it to A. E. Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney.
. ...J.J.: A full hand beats a flush. .. .A.L.J.:
The subject is covered in “Refrigerating Engineer-
ing” for December, 1930 (page 361) ... .W.A.E.H.:
Get in touch with E. Esdale and Sons, 42 Hunter-
street, Sydney A.R.D.: (1) The William IV. half-
crown is worth 3s. 6d., the George 111. half-crown
2s. 6d.; the George 11. half-crown, having been
pierced, is valueless. The George IV. crown is worth
7s. 6d. and the Turkish coin Is. 6d. (2) Try
Lyster Ormsby, 235 Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
J.M.: Couldn’t say without knowing condition, size
and weight. If of large denomination and in fine
condition it should be worth approximately 8s
Charles J.: Witnesses before ex-Justice Campbell
were sworn; the finding -was simply that Theodore
was “guilty of fraud and dishonesty,” and that the
moneys he and his friends shared were “fraudulently
obtained.” The charge made by the squatters in the
other case was that there had been a simple breach
of contract... .C.H.: The O.G.P.U. is the Soviet
political police force. Its business is to combat
political and economic counter-revolution, espionage
and banditism. ... (Many others mailed.) •


THIS YEAR
If ever it was necessary for the man of limited means to con-
serve carefully and to spend wisely, it is now. In most cases
incomes are lower, and in many outgoing is greater, and conse-
quently reduced margins must be provided for.
True Thrift is not only the hoarding of money—it is just as
much a matter of careful, useful spending; but obviously the
saving must come first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account and use it faithfully.
It costs nothing, but will help you to help yourself.
Cbmmonwcalti) SavmQS JBank of Hustralla
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis : The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Banton, A. $.
Wales, west of the Blue Mountains,
where Dr. Gherardi, an Italian poli-
tical exile, has settled with his wife
and son, and is establishing a prac-
tice. He is troubled by the fret-
fulness of his wife, who accom-
panied him to Banton against his
wish, but who now, he feels, is making
no effort to adapt herself to his cir-
cumstances. Allegations touching upon
his professional performance and other
misundei' standings make him deter-
mined to leave, but imperceptible influ-
ences work to keep him there. He has
made a friend of John Cartwright,
Bunion’s leading citizen, and is slowly
winning the respect and friendship of
others. But Mrs. Gherardi becomes
more and more intent upon returning
to Italy, and pt last, when their house
is burnt doivn, wins Dr. Gherardi’s
agreement that they should go. Going
to the bank after the fire, Dr. Gherardi
is made to see Bunion’s people in a
new light.—they have anonymously sub-
scribed £3OO as a token of appreciation
of his work and sympathy in his loss.
He feels that he cannot go now, and
rejects Mrs. Gherardi’s suggestion that
he should return the gift; since he
regards it as a tie. Mrs. Gherardi
becomes more and more fretful, and,
completely losing her control, she
takes strychnine. Dr. Gherardi leaves
for Sydney with his son, but re-
turns —to make atonement. Later
lie meets there Olwen Ferrars, tchose
tragedy and personality had im-
pressed, him when he attended her
wastrel husband, who had since died.
Walking with her one day he is
attracted by her youth and freshness,
and some time later, when he received
a call to an injured child, she induced
him to let her accompany him. They
meet the parents on the road, with the
unconscious child.
Chapter VIII {Continued).
“I’LL take my wife h6me to the baby,” the
I man said; “then I’ll come straight in,
doctor. Do what you can, won’t you?”
They drove off. In a few minutes the
night had swallowed them.
Leo did not take his seat immediately.
“These people are like their country,” he
said reflectively. “There is nothing spec-
tacular, no strong colors about their joy
and their sorrow. Inarticulate, grey, with
the great throbbing of the heart. A woman
of my people would in such circumstances
....no matter.” He was much moved.
“Hurry, can’t you? Why don’t you
hurry?” Olwen said. “Why are you stand-
ing there?” She spoke in a whisper. She
was afraid. She dared not speak loudly,
with that deathly still, silent thing in her
arms. The boy’s head had fallen against
her face. There was something terrifying
in his strange limpness. She moved her
face ever so slightly and the child’s neck
dropped like a broken doll’s.
“Leo, Leo!” she said imploringly. “Come
quickly! I think he’s dead.”
“Yes, he is dead. But it would do no
good to tell them The shock would
have been too much for that poor woman.
Give her a few hours to get used. You
are not frightened to take him, are you?”
His voice held a tinge of contempt. “If
you like, you can drive the horse and I
will carry.”
“No. I’m all right.”
The horse moved off.
Olwen felt as if she were playing her
part in a dream. She kept her arms rigid,
so that the child would not be disturbed;
but there were many ruts in the road and
as the buggy bumped over them the little
head would 1011. Once when that happened
she said, “Darling.... darling!” jerkily, on
an intake of breath, and tensed her body,
to ease his over the bump. It was diffi-
cult to realise nothing could hurt the
child now.
What did he look like? His hair was
soft, silken. Sometimes it brushed her eyes
and she had to shake her head free. His
little leg was plump and soft under her
imprisoning hand. His mother would re-
member the feel and the scent of that
curly head all her life. She would remember
every mark, every dimple and curve of the
small body. Because of this, the woman
would never be wholly happy again. All
the joys of her lifetime would be a little
less, because of this. Her own pale, re-
flected grief seemed an insult to the mother’s
anguish.
Then that feeling passed. She was con-
scious of a queer exaltation whose keynote
was sorrow, a spiritual elevation. She
imagined her spirit scarred by each separate
crisis of her life, so different from that
young, unmarked one. Yet it seemed a
privilege to live; each one of those scars
was precious and she no longer hated her
life, looking back. To live at all, to walk
bravely through the years, to stand up
to the things with which they assaulted
you, seemed more desirable than this.
Poor, little, unknowing, dead thing!
Beside you is Leo whom you love, who
might never love you. Well, that is some-
thing. Experience. Add to the total of
your consciousness. Make your entity im-
portant; expand it. That is something.
You love him differently now. Not as
you did when you commenced the drive.
Your body is quiet. It could not be other-
wise, pressed to that still form, but the
quiet lets you hear the beating of your,
spirit’s wings. The three of you smooth
moving through the dark. Love with you,
and death.
Then again the clouding, when she was
unable to think beyond the fact that she
must not move her arms, though they were
aching intolerably.
“Leo,” she whispered.
“Yes?”
“Nothing. I just wanted to hear your
voice.”
Leo looked down at her. He could not
see her face except as a white blur, half
hidden by the child’s head.
“Don’t think about, if you can help.
I’m sorry, dear, if you are upset. We
won’t be long.” He was gentle, matter
of fact.
“I’m not upset,” she said, in a curious,
wondering voice, unlike her own, so sure
and controlled. “I feel I love him, poor
little fellow. I can’t tell you quite what I
feel.” Then: “I suppose I’m imagining it,
but, Leo, his face feels colder now against
mine.”
Suddenly Leo slid his arm round her
so that she was half lying against his
breast. How she loved him!
The tears welled into her eyes. She began
to sob bitterly.
“Don't! Please, dear! I thought you
had more conti’ol.”
“I have. It’s not —oh, you don’t under-
stand!”
“I understand perfectly.” His arm tight-
ened round her, and she felt blessedly at
peace and her sobs stilled. She did not
speak again. She almost ceased to think.
Chapter IX.
(1)
Macpherson had called to see him to
discuss the next report of the hospital
committee. They talked for an hour. Leo
was slightly surprised to find himself so well
informed on matters of local importance.
Not only well informed but vaguely intei*-
ested. He was almost sorry when Mac-
pherson rose to go.
“I’m going down town to listen to this
chap Campbell. He’s speaking from the
Royal Hotel balcony. Coming down? Or
are you tied up?”
“I’m not much interested in politics,”
Leo said briefly. “Still, I’ll come with you,”
he added impulsively.
Before they reached Main-street he re-
gretted the impulse. He had acquired the
habit of closing his mind to the country’s
politics. He made no comments as he
walked beside Macpherson, who was saying
something about “these strike-leaders
oughter be rounded up and dumped some-
where. Put away same’s you put madmen
or people with contagious diseases. Then
sane folk would be able to live their lives
in peace.”
Leo hardly heard him. He was aware of
the abrupt opening of a wound. How
ardent he had been in the old days! And
he had not been altogether a fool. A few
years and he would have had acquired a
little wisdom and caution... .well, what was
the good of thinking? That chapter was
finished.
The little gathering was quiet, and
seemed apathetic, unimpressed. Campbell’s
voice was monotonous. It held no quality
to kindle the listeners. Leo felt a sudden
stirring. It would be good to be up there,
to hammer these people into thinking, to
make them alert, and give their wakeful
brains direction. His nostrils twitched. But
the stirring was short-lived. He was bored
almost at once, and decided that he would
leave Macpherson as soon as he decently
could. Two men strolled away as they
came up.
“That’s the sort of blokes we put in Par-
liament,” one said. “No wonder the
country’s gone to the dogs. D’you re-
member”—
Leo soon found the man’s monotonous
voice beginning to get on his nerves. He
lost the thread of the discourse, caught it
again in a few minutes and learned that
the candidate’s sympathies were with the
women and children, who must not be
allowed to starve, also that those who in-
duced the people to strike were enemies
to the best interests of the wage-earners.
A friend came up to them. “He has a few
good arguments. What do you think of
him, Doctor?”
“Yes,” said Leo, and sentences long for-
gotten kept forming in his brain: “Com-
petition will not be eliminated by socialism.
But you will not have to hoard for your
old age. You will have a claim against
the State when you can no longer work.
You will lose the horror of approaching
invalidity as old age overtakes you, be-
cause you will be financially secure. And
this matter of production. We socialists
cheerfully admit that, as far as production
goes, mankind does very well. I could
almost say that the time is not far distant
when we will be over-producing, so greatly
has science pushed on this human activity.
But as regards distribution we are as we
were four thousand years ago. The men
who, in actual work, produce the most,
often-times have hardly enough victuals.
One might produce in a day fifty pairs of
boots, yet have not one good pair of
boots for himself. Too frequently the man
who produces least gets the lion’s share.”
He became conscious of his even-running
thoughts, and the consciousness put on the
brake. He smiled a shade bitterly to him-
self in the darkness. Well, all that was
over, forgotten. There was a time when
he would have found his way up the hotel
stairs and on to that- balcony, and beneath
.the flambeaus would have argued the case.
But these were not his people, this election
did not concern him, not even as it con-
cerned old Schultz. Governments could not
affect his curing of the people’s sickness.
That’s what was left to him. That was his
sphere. It would always be so.
He made his excuses to Macpherson and
went home, depressed and irritable. That
night he lay awake a long time, troubled
by his thoughts.
(2)
Miss McCodd woke, without an alarm-
clock, about six o’clock. She had made tea
and coffee by the time the milkman
tramped up the path. He was whistling,
and as he poured the milk into her jug
he wished her a blithe good morning.
“Reckon it’ll be another hot day,’ he
said.
“We must expect to have hot weather
this time of the year.” Miss McCodd’s
voice was temperate. She did not encourage
familiarity from the tradespeople. She
brought Leo his coffee, told Dino he could
get up now if he wished, and if he didn’t
bath himself properly she would see about
it! Then she returned to the kitchen to
drink her tea. An ordinary morning for
Miss McCodd.
The doorbell rang, a timid, half-hearted
little l’ing, pressed by a tentative finger.
Miss McCodd put down her cup, made a
sucking noise to express exasperation and
proceeded through the hall to open the door.
She was confronted by a girl who held
a baby awkwardly against her thigh. The
girl was drooping with fatigue and there
were heavy black rings under her eyes.
“Well, Mamie, what do you want?” Miss
McCodd was stern, disapproving. She knew
all about Mamie Styles. If she hadn’t
warned Mirry, who had no eyes in her
head, the thing would have happened in
her own brother’s house.
“Is it too early ter see the doctor, Miss
McCodd?”
“Unless very urgent, it is too early!”
Miss McCodd spoke stiffly. The girl
blinked at her.
“I’m sorry. I got here about half-past
four, and I been waitin’ outside until I heard
■you get up. I nearly fell asleep on the
footpath, I were so tired.”
“But what do you want? That’s the
question. Is there any urgent matter? Are
you in need of medical attention?” The
tolerance showing in the woman’s voice
and face was such as she would have be-
stowed on a rattlesnake. But Mamie had
grown used to such regard; she persisted
with timid obstinacy, adhering to an evi-
dently rehearsed statement.
“I walked in from the farm, Miss McCodd.
I thought I’d get in before anyone in the
street’d see me. I cleared out, Miss Mc-
Codd. Gran’s been playin’ up so terrible.
At first she weren’t so bad, but since....
since it’s got out she’s been somethin’
terrible.” She heaved the baby on to the
other arm and hushed it as it began to
whimper.
Miss McCodd pressed her lips together
until they were a straight line.
“She’s got so she won’t come near me.
I ain’t hardly had anything to eat, only
what I sneaks. Then I wrote to me Aunt
Aggie, and she says I can come down to
her if I help in the shop and don’t bring
the baby.” She began to cry softly, wiping
her eyes with a corner of the child’s soiled
dress. Miss McCodd exploded.
“A nice thing this is! Haven’t you any
shame, Mamie Styles? Do you expect your
poor grandmother, a good respected woman,
to turn round and thank you for dis-
gracing her! If you or—or your brat is
sick the doctor will see you in his own
time. If not, kindly take yourself off.
You aren’t fit to speak to decent women!
Are you sick?”
“I ain’t sick exactly, not so’s I want a
doctor,” Mamie said miserably. “I ain’t
been feelin’ well, but”....
“Well, what are you doing here?”
Mamie found a remnant of courage. “I
want to see the doctor.”
“What do you want him for?”
“Well, I thought he might help me. He
was real kind when baby was born, and he
never called me a bad woman nor nothin’
like everyone else. So I thought he might
help me get the baby adopted or some-
thin’, like Elbe Simpson got hers. Some-
one from Sj'dney took it.”
Miss McCodd was speechless. Then:
“Well, of all the brazen impudence! Shift-
ing the responsibility of your sin on the
shoulders of decent respectable people! I
never heard the like! You take yourself
off!”
Leo, dressing-gown and slippers,
emerged from his room. Mamie, half-way
down the path, turned, saw him and hurried
back.
“Well, what is the matter with you, eh?"
Leo said kindly. Then he remembered
the girl. “How is the baby now?”
Mamie spilled out her story. Miss Mc-
Codd, hearing the noise, bounced round the
corner of the verandah.


“What does she say, Miss McCodd? I
do not quite catch.”
“Didn’t I tell you to take yourself off,
Mamie Styles? How dare you annoy the
doctor with your impertinence! Go away
at once! ”
“What does she want?” Leo snapped.
“Doctor, she has the impertinence to come
here asking you to have her sinful brat
adopted. They’re all alike, these girls!”
“Tell me—speak more slowly, and try
not to cry,” he said gently.
When he understood he remained silent
and thoughtful for a few minutes. Then:
“You have a place to go?” he said.
“Yes. But I can’t bring baby.”
Miss McCodd broke into violent vitu-
peration. “I know all about this hussy,
Doctor. She worked for my sister.”
“Please, Miss McCodd, I do not need you
now. You may go.” His tone was sharply
commanding. Miss McCodd flounced out
of sight, and stood round the corner, listen-
ing.
“You wish to leave to-day?”
“Yes. I can’t stick it out at Gran’s any
longer.”
“Have you had breakfast?”
“No. I ain’t had anything. But I
don’t want anything.”
“Now, go round to the kitchen. You
will get some food, and if you have no
place to go you can stay here until the
train goes. We will see what we can do.
Go round to the kitchen and I will see
you when you have had breakfast.”
Miss McCodd heard his orders without
interruption. When he had finished she
said: “And that will be all? You’re sure
there’s nothing else you wish me to do
for her?”
“Unless you could fit her in some way
with clothes. She seems ragged and to have
nothing.”
“Well!” Miss McCodd drew herself up.
“A nice thing! A nice thing!” Her grey
head bobbed frantically. “I refuse to stay
in this house an instant longer. I’ve had
my suspicions of you you needn’t look
at me like that. I’m not afraid of you!
Never put foot inside a church! And my
own brother flung me into this cesspool!
I’ve seen you! That woman Ferrars comes
here, and the both of you in the surgery
with the door closed. She isn’t sick. 7
know. ' But I refused to believe”
“That’s enough!” Leo was white with
fury. He flung out his arms. “Pack your
clothes and get out —at once!”
“Oh, I’m going. I wouldn’t stay in this
sinful house another hour! You’d dare to
strike me, would you—you” She broke
into noisy weeping and ran down the hall.
Mounting the back steps was Phyllis,
the little maid who did the rough work.
“Phyllis,” said Miss McCodd. “don’t put
on your apron, don’t take off your hat.
Don’t come on to this verandah! I am
responsible for bringing you to this house,
but it will never be said that I knew the
truth and allowed you to remain here. I
will inform your mother of my reasons.
Your ears are too young and, I hope, pure,
to hear such things. Go home.” She was
trembling with excess of feeling.
Like a dazed rabbit Phyllis shrank back,
a step at a time.
“But Miss McCodd”
“Phyllis! Go home!” Miss McCodd
screamed. Phyllis went home.
(3)
In a week the house was chaos. Rooms
were unswept and undusted. The kitchen
was littered with unwashed utensils. Leo,
like most Italians, could cook, and he
achieved breakfast and supper without much
difficulty. For their midday meal he and
Dino went to the Empire Hotel. Then one
afternoon he was called to visit a country
patient and did not get home until nine
o’clock. He found Dino, ravenous and
weeping, alone in the darkened house; he
was cowering on his bed almost hysterical
with fear.
Leo soothed him and carried him out to
the kitchen. The preparation of a meal
became a game, and Dino soon forgot his
fright. But when, he had undressed the
child and put him to bed Leo walked
through the house, disturbed. This state
of affairs must not be allowed to continue.
Patients were complaining that they re-
ceived no answer to their ringing of the
doorbell. He must have some responsible
person in the house, or return to the
hotel; but the girl who had been his attend-
ant there had left the town, and he had
engaged no one else. He had advertised in
the “Champion” for a housekeeper, but had
had no applicants.
He went into the dining-room. The vases
had not been emptied, and petals and dried
leaves had dropped on to the dusty mantel-
piece and on the floor. The carpet was
littered. His bedroom was stuffy, and the
bed had not been made properly for a week.
In an access of disgust he went to the linen-
press and rooted out sheets and pillow-
slips. Dino was not asleep, and Leo told
him to get up; then he made the child’s
bed as well as he could. Returning to his
own room he performed a similar office.
His temper mounted. He went out to the
kitchen to find an appalling mess, and sud-
denly furious, he laid a sheet on the floor,
gathered all the soiled dishes and pans into
it, then carried the bundle down the yard
and dumped it in the rubbish-tip.
Wha,t could a man do? This was torment.
How in God’s name was he expected to
work!
Sitting on the darkened verandah he
smoked himself into thoughtful calm. He
must be getting old, or settled, he thought,
He hated the indignity of scrambling about
in—in filth. Indignity? Yes, he had
changed. He wanted his home well-ordered,
comfortable, so that he could forget about
it.
But what a confession! The matter of
meals and clean, comfortable rooms engag-
ing his attention so importantly! If he were
reading a book he would notice that dust
on the arm of the chair. He had changed,
and the metamorphosis had been so gradual
he had been unaware of it until to-night.
He had got into a rut. In a little middle-
class town he was a middle-class citizen!
He got up suddenly. “Christo! I’ll get
away. I’ll fight. I won’t be condemned
to this!”
For two hours he prowled about the
house and resolves framed in his mind and
dimmed. He was overcome by a sense of
his own weakness. He was so far away.
Australia Banton seemed like the end
of the world. He went down into the
garden. The town lay beneath him, sleep-
ing. A wind murmured in the trees. He
could faintly discern the uneven dark
shadow which were the hills to the west-
ward. A dark, silent tomb, and he was
buried in it.
How foolish he had been in his excessive
zeal to cut himself off entirely from his
friends! He hardly saw an Italian paper
these days. He had had no letters for over
a year. Surely he might have known that
the day would come when he would break
his resolution to remain buried in this
little town.
Well, he was not an old man, by any
means. He was not even middle-aged. He
was young, and he would have a fight for
it. To-morrow he would write half a dozen
letters.
Abruptly he realised that it was late and
that he was vei-y tired. He went to bed;
and as he grew sleepier his mind refused
to consider the problem of the future.
He thought, with a shudder at his own
disloyalty, that the house had been much
more comfortable since Teresa’s death, be-
cause Miss McCodd was wonderfully effici-
ent. He had not appreciated the smooth-
running domestic machine until the wheels
had been spragged. Poor little Teresa had
not cared about houses or material posses-
sions. He was glad she could not know how
he had felt to-night. She would have looked
at him with her astonished dark eyes and
said, “But, Leo, these things do not matter.”
Next morning he thought, first thing, “I
must write those letters to-day. I will
write them this morning, before I go out.”
While he was dressing he considered the
letters he would write, but the more he
thought about the task the more difficult
it seemed. What would he say, and to
whom? Was it any use writing at all until
he had some definite plan?
During the morning he met John Cart-
wright in the street. “How about a drink?”
John said. It was very hot, and they were
on the comer in front of the hotel. The
bar, glimpsed through the swing-doors, was
cool and inviting.
“No thanks, old man.” He was passing
on when a thought arrested him. “John,
I would like to see your wife, if she could
help me. I am in trouble with the house.
I was compelled to dismiss my housekeeper,
and I have no one. I have advertise, but
nothing happen. Could your wife advise me
at all?”
John grinned. “Yes, I’ve heard about the
harem you run up there and how you
assaulted Miss McCodd when she tried to
show you the error of your ways.”
Leo was dismayed. “Is that what she
say?”
“Part of it. There’s a lot more. Mona’s
highly amused. Her girl had it from
young Phyllis.”
“Good God!” said Leo profanely.
“No need to get excited. Eveiyone thinks
it’s a joke, except Bert McCodd. Noth-
ing’s a joke to Bert that lands the old
woman back on him.”
“It is not joke to me either! My house
is like a pig-sty. So that is the reason
no one come?”
“I don’t know. Anyway, Mona will fix
you up.”
Returning to the house after having
lunched at the hotel, Leo knew himself
disgusted with the sordidness of the whole
business. Here he was, Leo Gherardi, upset
by the filthy gossiping tongues of servants.
If you live in a little town you become
little; you are at the mercy of all the petty
mean happenings of a narrow existence.
Oh, let him get away, for God’s sake.
Dino left him at the gate, having asked
could he stay and play with the boys
after school. He had noticed that the child’s
clothes were not clean. What a mess!
Cartwright had said that his wife would
take care of Dino until something had been
arranged. Well, that was kind of them. He
would take Dino down this afternoon.
(To be continued next week.)
Flower Minstrel.
So good the day, so fresh the spring,
It seems this mounting hedgerow thing,
This fortunable rose,
Doth find a silver voice to sing
His lady up, and softly bring
Sweet ends to her repose.
N.B.W.
HUGH MCCRAE.
THE IMPRESSIONS OF A LIFE
ASSURANCE CHAIRMAN.
(By George Crowley.)
This is my speech at the recent Annual
Mating of the City Mutual.
I sent it on, in due course, to the daily
papers, and was told that at advertising
rates it would be printed.
I except, of course, the old “Herald,”
which is conservative in this respect.
The “Herald” did, in its commercial
columns, give me a few lines, but garbled
what I had to say, and left the reader more
or less uncertain as to what my views were.
Still, one has, I suppose, to be thankful
for small mercies these days.
The thing that puzzles me, though, is
this, that when a man occupying the posi-
tion of Chairman of a great institution like
the City Mutual takes the opportunity
once a year to help, so far as lies in his
power, towards a solution of a great diffi-
culty, he is asked to pay for giving this
advice to his fellow citizens.
If the views expressed by me are danger-
ous, and if it were prudent in the interests
of the community that they should not
be published, I could understand it. But
I ask the thousands of Bulletin readers to
just glance through my speech and tell
me whether or not this is a speech which
should receive, at least, a hearing from the
public of Australia.
In moving the adoption of the report,
I said:—
For the first time since I have had the
honor to occupy this chair, I am not talking
to you to-day of handsome bonuses, in-
creased business, additions to funds,
mortality experiences, and the like.
For the first time in the fifty-two years’
history of the old society, I am addressing
you on a subject of vital importance to
Australia, so vital that it obliterates the
usually interesting incidents, such as those
which have been the theme of the annual
discussion, and relegates them to the dim
possibilities of the future.
During the period under review, a section
of our people has endeavored to reduce
proud Australia to the level of some
despised South American Republic.
Apart altogether from the fact that, in
order to develop this vast continent, Aus-
tralia must seek further capital in future
from abroad, there is the foul stain on our
honor that perhaps for the first time in
the history of a country of British origin
we proposed to treat our creditors as a
low racecourse welsher bilks his patrons.
I have been imbued with Labor sym-
pathies since I was a child. I have given
evidence of it in a hundred ways since I
grew to man’s estate.
I am unable to understand the mentality
of those leaders of the Labor Party in this
State who sponsored such action. The
shame, the dishonor, the indignity of it.
A CONTRADICTION.
And one is at a loss to understand the
contradiction in seeking the advice of one
of the foremost financial men in the British
Empire, and then ignoring the sound advice
tendered by him. It is the same as if a
patient in a dangerous illness called in a
famous consulting physician, and then con-
temptuously rejected his diagnosis.
In 1926, from this chair, in reply to com-
ments on the fact that the City Mutual
had invested much less proportionately in
Government stocks than the other large
life offices, I pointed out that this was only
done after giving the matter grave con-
sideration.
The board came to the conclusion that
Australia was borrowing much too freely,
and spending much too prodigally.
Speaking with the experience of half a
lifetime, during which period I have in-
vested many millions of the policy-holders’
funds, I have always noted that the path
to borrowing was strewn with rose petals
while the track to repayment was beset
with briars.
LOAN OFT LOSES BOTH ITSELF AND
FRIEND.
It is as true now as it was in the days
of old Polonius, that loan oft loses both
itself and friend. The people and the in-
stitutions who a few short years ago so
generously met our frequent appeals for
more, and ever still more, money are now
the subject of our opprobrium. They are
“bloodsuckers,” “financial cormorants,”
“Shylocks.”
Pay them their interest, indeed! The
vampires. To the block with them.
But yesterday they might have stood
against the world. Now none so poor to
do them reverence.
THE BANKS.
One cannot altogether acquit the great
Australian banks on the charge of creating
a serious lack of confidence in the earlier
stages of this debacle.
The dictates of ordinary prudence might
have, under the circumstances, justified a
slowing down of fresh advances, but the
wholesale calling up of well-secured over-
drafts ci’eated an atmosphere of national
insecurity.
Staid old business concerns with half a
century’s solid trading, cautious professional
men with their limited overdraft against
securities admitting of no dubiety, all were
alike called upon to pay, pay, pay. They
were harried indiscriminately like wild
ducks on the first day of the opening of
the shooting season.
The scientists tell us that mob psy-
chology is a fearful and a wonderful thing.
Panic begot panic. The scare spread like
the circles of a pond into which a stone
is thrown, and hope for a season bade the
world farewell.
“A CLOG ON INDUSTRY.”
Paternally conceived legislative enact-
ments and well-meaning Arbitration Courts
dictate to Australia the hours and con-
ditions and wages of labor, but, unfortu-
nately, they are as effective in realising their
landable views as poor old Canute was in
his directions to the British tides of long
ago. It would be the best thing for Aus”
traha to-day if a moratorium were granted
to these courts, and to the basic wage,
child endowment, workmen’s compensation,
and the thousand and one awards and regu-
lations which clog the wheels of, industry.
We have been so spoon-fed for a generation
or more that we have become flabby, and
the robust spirit of our forbears seems to
be but a memory.
I have been pointing out for years from
this chair the imminent danger to the peace
of Australia in allowing foreign born dema-
gogues to freely air their anarchistic views
on the benefits of disruption of society.
The tolerance of the authorities in this
matter is beyond understanding. One
cannot successfully beat out a bush-fire
merely by offering prayers for rain.
“AUSTRALIA WILL PULL
THROUGH.”
I feel certain that Australia will tri-
umphantly surmount this ordeal, as it has
overcome similar crises in its chequered
history of 150 years. But only if a majority
of the Australian people so will it.
I am one of the fast-thinning band who
held executive office in far-off ’93, when
our banking troubles overtook us, and I
can bear willing testimony to the unity and
determination and equality of sacrifice
which all sections of the community then
made to restore conditions of confidence.
These are the qualities we need to-day.
And we need them badly.
FUTURE BONUSES.
It seems inevitable that the life offices
of the Commonwealth, with their large in-
vestments in Government and municipal
securities, and bank deposits, carrying fixed
rates of interest, will be called upon to pay
heavy extra taxation to cope with the situ-
ation.
It is regrettable that these institutions,
whose activities represent merely the
savings of the thrifty class in the com-
munity, and whose funds are intended
largely for the benefit of the widow and
the orphan, should be further penalised.
But I suppose needs must when the devil
drives.
It means, to the extent of the taxation
involved, a very considerable reduction in
the bonuses now being paid to the members
of these societies.
But I suppose we must cheerfully bear it
under the extraordinary conditions which
confront us.
The position is admittedly a difficult one,
but it will have to be manfully faced. It
means to me, personally, probably the
sacrifice of a life’s ambition. But the sacri-
fice of a thousand lives’ ambition is but a
poor price to pay for the maintenance of
the honor of Australia.
15/4/’3l.
GEORGE CROWLEY.
“S.” : One of the most striking figures at
the Indian Conference in London was the
Gaekwar of Baroda. In 1875 the then
Gaekwar was deposed for misgovernmcnt
and “gross misconduct”; the British foitud
a. successor in Savaji Rao, a poor and
distant relation of the dispossessed ruler.
He became Gaekwar in 1881, after a period
of education under British tutors, and turned
out an excellent selection. He has been a
mixture of far-seeing democrat and stern
autocrat, a combination thoroughly agreeable
to Indian mentality. One of the potentate’s
likeable attributes is a typically Asiatic
love of children. I was a fellow-passenger
with him on a P. and O. liner some years
ago, and while I played deck tennis the ruler
of 10 millions amused my three-weeks-old
infant by the hour together. During the
voyage his wife, a magnificently handsome
Specimen, paraded the decks in a succession
of saris of the most bewildering loveliness.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The way of the punter at Caulfield was
exceedingly hard. Three races were won
by 10-to-l chances, and two other winners
started at even longer odds. The nearest
that a favorite got was when Chilperic (9
to 4) made a dead heat with Ideal Prince
(10 to 1) in the Glenferrie Handicap. Chil-
peric is owned and trained by S. B. Fergu-
son, whose father (still going strong, but
no longer in harness) rode The Agent and
Ocean to victory in the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle nearly 40 years ago.
Sid Ferguson did not appreciate having to
accept cramped odds about Chilperic. The
Cyklon gelding was asked to concede 161 b.
to Royal Parade, and in view of that rival’s
brilliant success at Williamstown a fort-
night before it by no means looked a good
thing for Chilperic. Jack Holt and his fol-
lowers supported Royal Parade from 5 to 1
doivn to 7 to 2. The race was confined to
apprentice jockeys, and Royal Parade did
not get much assistance from his. Meredith,
who piloted Chilperic, can ride, but, through
excess of confidence, he permitted Ideal
Prince to get within striking distance half-
way down the straight. The surprise of
Meredith when he found an outsider wearing
him down equalled in depth the disgust of
Chilperic’s backers. Ideal Prince is owned
and trained by W. S. H'ickenbotham, whose
late father trained Carbine.
The impression that Whittier, the dual
Caulfield Cuxj winner, was a stud failure
must be amended. Golden Arrow, one of
his progeny, ran splendidly in the New-
market Handicap and won the V.R.C. Elms
Handicap, beating Brazenface. The Woorak
stallion received another advertisement by
the unexpected success of Ireson’s Ride in
the Katandra Two-year-old, and Ben Chaffey,
Gert: “The more i plav the worse
1 SEEM to set"
Bert: " Voud make a popular
Bar maid, Gert”
Gert :" Is that meant as a
COMPLIMENT 2 "
Bert Too ! youre always
SERV'HG, doubles
chairman of the V.A.T.C. committee, beamed
with satisfaction. He owns Whittier, who is
held on lease for stud purposes by Les
Aldridge. Ibrani, fresh from two Williams-
town victories at Easter, was made a hot
favorite. To all appearances he had the race
in hand half a furlong from home, but Ireson’s
Ride (10 to 1) smothered him at the finish
and scored by more than a length. Harry
Williams, owner of Ireson’s Ride, had a
half-interest in Lady Reynard when that
filly took the Mai’ibyrnong Plate of 1922.
He allowed the Whittier gelding to go out
unbacked.
Half-brothers fought out the finish of the
V.A.T.C. Khartoum Hurdle. With an over-
powering effort at the finish. Councillor (.by
Valais) scored by a neck from Solo King
(son of Comedy King) ; third place was
filled by Arcadius, who was going faster than
any of them on the post, and will have to be
reckoned with in the Grand National Hurdle.
The former Sydney performer Home Made
headed the quotes for the Neerim Steeple-
chase ; but he could not accumulate speed
at any stage, and finished a long way back.
Home Made is trained by Len. McCann, who
has temporarily taken up residence in Mel-
bourne. Winner was Melton Star, from
Wangaratta, who romped home, followed by
Tetcott, owned by R. M. Cuthbertson,
M.L.C., an executor of the Septimus Miller
estate. Cuthbertson has been associated
with the Miller family for a lifetime.
• • • • • a
On retiring from the turf recently, “A
Wooliscroft,” the jam magnate, leased his
horses to Frank Robinson. One of them, the
Lanius mare Woodchatter, was backed off
the card for the Glenbuntly Handicap; she
caused Robinson bitter disappointment _ by
finishing last. Success rested with Prince
Don (14 to 1), the property of Ron Cameron,
who won a Melbourne Cup on The Parisian.
Another failure was that of Green Wave,
who went out at 6 to 4 for the concluding
event. Einga, the Westralian sprinter, landed
this, after drifting from 6 to 1 to twice thoße
odds.
* * * *
For M'oonee Valley on Friday:—
District Nursing Handicap: H'eadman;
next, Valiant Maid.
Guthrie Welter: Lynden; next, Reputed
Kins -, .
The remodelled Randwick tote again took
the shine out of McShortodds at the City
Tatt.’s meeting on Saturday. It showed
what it can do when outsiders come home
ahead of big fields, six or more horses being
backed. If the market had been a trust-
worthy guide, Commandant would have been
a good thing for the Novice Handicap, but
this tliree-year-old of Hugh _ Denison s could
not even get a place. Valerie, a daughter of
Valais and Sibonga, trained by J. H. Abbs
for W. T. Kerr, was a very tired first, from
William Kelso’s Amanullah and Tortoni.
Twenty-five to one in the ring, with 10 p.c.
tax to be taken off, her dividend on the
straight-out machine (with 12£ p.c. and
“broken money” deducted) was £26 Is. 6d-
for 10s., and on the place machine £4 11s. 6d.
Amanullah’s div. was £3 165.; Tortoni’s,
£1 10s.
Excellent dividends were also paid on
Anchor, one of Neville’s pair (Ranworth is
the other, and Neville often starts them in
the same race), who unexpectedly ran away
with the Denman Stakes. The bookmakers
offered 20 to 1; the tote divs. for 10s. were
£l2 Is. and £3 Bs. 6d. Sir Chrystopher and
Greenline were among the runners, and were
both backed, but the weight and the going—
there had been a lot of rain during the week
—proved too much for them, and it was
reserved for Lord Romeo and Lucre to fill
the minor places. Lucre was another in
good demand.
Jim Barden was soon compensated for
Greenline’s defeat. He saddled up Golden
Gate for the next race, the Youthful Stakes,
and with Pike bouncing her away smartly,
as is his custom, she made a procession of
it With 9st. up and the going as it was,
she did well to' run six furlongs in lmin.
131 sec. Golden Gate is Maoriland-bred,
being by Limond —Royal Exchange. She
was well beaten by Burwood and Johnnie
Jason in the A.J.G. Easter Stakes, but has
probably come on since. In this case the
10s. tote paid £1 9s. 6d. and 18s. 6d. on a
winner that went out at 5 to 2, less tax-
evidence that it is sometimes profitable in
the case of short-priced horses that are pretty
certain to be placed to concentrate on the
place tote. Another example: Chide’s div.
for second in the A.J.G. Plate (six starters)
was £1 7s. 6d. • On liis close third in the
Cumberland Stakes to The Dimmer and Veil-
mond, he was a racecourse certainty for a
div. in the A.J.C. Plate, with Veilmond out.
It was an outsider’s turn once more in
City Tatt.’s Cup, and once more the divs.
were substantial. The outsider was Green-
bird, a champion at “the ponies,” but thought
incapable of staying 11 furlongs, being a
member of a supposedly .non-staying family
—he is by Greenstead —Dorrie Merton. But
he finished with rare dash for Knox —also
from the pony courses —and was a good
winner at the end from Pavilion and Com-
anche, for which two and Roley the big
money came. New Sweet was finishing fast
when it was all over. She is an uncertain
mare. Greenbird’s ring price was 20 to 1;
tote divs. for 10s. were £l3 7s. 6d. and
£3 17s. 6d. More intelligently ridden, Sun
Eagle (4 to 1) would have won the Club
Welter; he went under to Gibsontea (5
to 1).
* * * *
Weights for Adelaide Cup, framed by
Clem Hill, the old cricketer, put The Dimmer
top with 9st. 81b., and Waterline next with
9st. 31b., but both are unlikely starters.
Mary Spa, Bst. 91b., and Kidaides, Bst. 61b.,
head the local lot; Temptation, last year’s
winner, has gone up Ist. 61b. to Bst. 21b. For
the Goodwood Handicap Merab hals the
steadier of 9st. 101 b., only once before (by
True Scot, 1909) carried with success.
Taurus has 9st. 31b. The Doctor’s Orders
at Bst. 51b. looks well in.
* * * *
“Cetigne”: Former crack hurdle-jockey
J. E. Brewer has passed out in Melbourne,
where he owned and raced horses for most
of his 62 years. Born in the Lachlan River
country, Brewer commenced riding as an
amateur, and as such steered Busaco to vic-
tory in the Australian (then the G. N.)
Steeplechase at Caulfield in 1891. Turning
pro., he won the G. N. Hurdle on Tim
Swiveller, Emmalea and Pat —Emmalea and
Pat were his own. He had a beautiful seat
in the saddle, and was a very fine judge of
a horse. It was Brewer who ; took The
Grafter, the Melbourne Cup winner of 1898,
to England, and there won with him the 1900
City and Suburban and other good races.
He made money in England, which he in-
vested shrewdly in Australia; while abroad
he bought that good sire The Welkin for
E. E. D. Clarke. On his return to his own
country he raced some fair sorts, and Tril-
lion (who went to the stud) won the
S.A.J.C., Goodwood and several other events
in his blue and black livery.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Referee Val Quirk sweated more than
either George Cook (13.6) or Jack O’Malley
(12.6) at Melb. Stadium on Saturday night.
For 15 rounds he tried to make a fight out
of a hugging match. The only excitement
occurred after the bell sounded for the end
of the fifth infliction. O’Malley landed a
blow, to be incontinently floored with a
left. Amid the howls of the crowd, Jack
remained down, hoping for a verdict on a
foul; but when Quirk sized up the position
he ordered the pair to box on, and O’Malley
came up briskly enough for the sixth. Hie
kept poking out his left, and was declared
the winner in the 15th.
Tommy Fielding (lOst. 2ilb.) took a hid-
ing from Wally Hancock (lOst. 41b.) at
Leichhardt, but kept going. Hancock won
the first eight rounds from here to Japan.
The Canadian seemed outclassed, but he
rushed in for the ninth with a right to the
chin and shot two lusty lefts to the same
spot. Another left —a hook this time —
knocked Hancock on his face for the full
count.
* :!: * *
Scientific boxing was conspicuous by its
absence from the three ten-rounders—at
least, they were advertised as ten-rounders
—at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. The
scrappers provided plenty of stousli, though,
particularly a newcomer from Maoriland,
Glen Urquhart (9st. 61b.), who outpointed
George Brown (9st. 111 b.). Pat Ryan
(list. 41b.) found Frank Green (12st. 41b.)
too big in the next bout; Green finished his
foe in two rounds. Jerry Hostler (lOst.
101 b.) took another round to knock Tommy
Gibbs (lOst. 91b.) limp.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”; In spite of the abstention of
Australia, Cuba, India and Sweden, this
year’s Davis Cup entry is the largest on
record, 31 countries having skied their
beavers. The Americas have now been
divided into two zones : in the south Para-
guay, Uruguay, Chile, Brazil and Argentina
will figure, and in the north the U.S.A.,
Canada and Mexico. Japan and South
Africa will play in the European zone.
# ❖ * sjc
“Donyo Sabuk” : Kenya Colony may not
be up to Davis Cup form as yet, but it is
unique in one respect. Many of its courts
are actually on the Equator. In some in-
stances matters have been so arranged that
the net is on the Line itself. It is thus pos-
sible for a player to take part in a game
on both sides of the world’s waistband within
a few minutes, and that without walking off
the court.
* * # *
“Pepper-box”: South Australian ten-
niseers are interested in a proposal
to alter the method of scoring. Under
the present system a loser may o'ften
win more games than the winner by sets,
especially in a three- or five-set rubber. It
is proposed to introduce a point system of
scoring, as in fives, where the game is usually
21 aces, each winning stroke counting one
to the. maker. One of the advantages of
the point system is that it penalises errors
far more heavily than the present scoring
method, while the player who deliberately
throws away a set in order to get some rest
and wind for a deciding set while his oppo-
nent is playing himself out, would have to
go for all he was worth.
* * * *
“Let”: Writing in “Tennis and Golf,”
Cochet puts forward a strong plea for rigid
training methods. Americans have long
realised the importance of training hard,
and for the three or four months
before Davis Cup contests and during
them the U.S. team has a strenuous time
of it with physical-culture. France is taking
up the idea enthusiastically, and the Racing
Club de France, which, paradoxically, is
the supreme authority in French tennis, has
opened a school for the purpose at its Paris
headquarters with a professional instructor
in charge. The Australian player in the past
has done little in the way of acquiring physi-
cal fitness, beyond game practice, though
some Aussies, notably Jack Crawford, have
of late being paying some attention to organ-
ised training and with good results. It is not
likely, however, that the bulk of Australians,
who get very little big tennis, will waste
time and trouble in the physical-jerks schools.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: When Andrews came from
Maoriland to Sydney some years ago and
won.the N.S.W. junior singles championship,
beating Hopman and Crawford, he was
marked as a possible successor to Anthony
Wilding. He left the land of his birth to
go up to Cambridge, and though he has occa-
sionally done well at Wimbledon he has
never climbed as high in tennis as his early
showing promised. This year Andrews has
been, touring India and Eastern Asia with a
British team. He seems to have been the
best of a brilliant combination, which in-
cluded Bunny Austin.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Henri Cochet, of France, and
George Lott, the American Davis Cup player,
both of whom were recently reported to have
decided to turn professionals, have denied
the tale. Australians who looked forward to
the chance of seeing Cochet here with
Tilden’s rumored combination will be cor-
respondingly disappointed. Cochet says his
objective is the retention of the Davis Cup
for his country, and as long as he can
manage to keep his form he should remain
the most important factor in France’s Davis
Cup supremacy. There is no one in sight
to take his place. Cochet, Borotra, playing
fine tennis in America, Lacoste and Brugnou
are still indisputably at the top of the Gallic
tenuis tree.
The Ins and Outs
“Aigburth”: The cricketers
turned up in good condition in England and
are arousing a lot of interest. Their
manager’s estimate is that they are strong
in batting and fielding, but the bowling is an
unknown quantity. This opinion is the more
surprising since M.L. newspaper critics are
well content with the bowlers chosen. The
1931 team is certainly stronger in talent
and experience than the last, though it has
no batsman of Dacre’s outstanding type.
* * * *
“Cobbett”: A disease among willow-trees,
attributed to their having been planted too
closely, has caused a shortage of cricket-bat
material which is perturbing English manu-
facturers. Nothing as good or nearly as
good as salix for cutting and driving has
ever yet been discovered, despite long and
persistent experimenting; and don’t run
away with the idea that any old willow,
like that which fringes the banks of so many
English rivers and brooks, will do. The
best bats are fashioned of a species of tree
that grows only in Hertfordshire and Suf-
folk, and this is where the blight, or what-
ever it is, has descended on the plantations.
With the material on the spot, as it were,
these counties —instead of Kent or Hamp-
shire—should have been the rightful homes,
one would have thought, of English cricket.
But neither was ever more than second-
class.
:J: ❖ *
“Her Jong”: The student who told Cuvier
that a crab was a little red fish that ran
backward was pretty nearly right, as the
great naturalist explained, except for the
fact that a crab wasn’t a fish, wasn’t red,
and didn’t walk backward. A Sydney
cricket scribe equalled this record almost
when he referred to “Dave” Nourse as an
African born who played for the Transvaal
and was the possessor of the biggest pair of
hands of anyone who ever played cricket.
Without wishing to argue the hand matter —
though I fancy the giant “W.G.” and Aus-
tralia’s “Mother” Kelly would have run
“Dave” close —there is no harm in pointing
out that Nourse was born in Surrey and went
to Natal as a drummer with the West Riding
Regiment in the days when British South
Africa maintained a rooibatje garrison. Buy-
ing out of the regiment later, “Dave” played
all his cricket life for Natal, in the Currie
Cup matches, which correspond to our Shef-
field Shield ones. “Dave’s” proper Christian
name, by the way, is Arthur, and he first
achieved prominence as a lefthand fast
bowler.
•J* *J*
“Tenth Slip”: “Oh yes, my lad,” the old
man said, “the bow-lers of this day are
dead. A doughy lot we have in hand. Our
best one hails from Maoriland, and not
another of the coots can buzz the ball that
spins and shoots right off the wicket with
a fizz. These days is damnable, they is. All
for an hour of Charley Turn-er sending dowu
his old infern-al break that used to beat the
bat and win him many a baksheesh hat.
Who hears again the hefty yowl that
marked the feats of big Bill How’ll? I
doubt if any modern there is who knows
with what fist bowled Jack Ferris. How
me imagination wanders from Harry Troit
to Jacky Saunders. An’, I suppose there's
not a rotter that’s ever heard of Tibby
Cotter, nor’s known that melting of tlv-
bones which batsmen felt who faced Ern
Jones. How many of ’em take a tumble to
what was done by Hughie Trumble? I’m
not attempting slinging off at Hughie Boyle
or “Demon” Spoff., or bow-lers of a later
day like Mac. and Greg, and Warwick A.
But, I say here, and make no howler, this
country’s flummoxed for a bow-ler.”
“Spinnaker” : The open-boat sailing season
ended, as far as N.S.W. was concerned, with
the Ma State the holder of the Australian
18- and 12-footer championships. Over
£lOOO was given in prizes for the eighteen?,
and, thanks to good handicapping, this was
pretty evenly spread over 27 boats in 2o
races, every boat in the fleet collecting some-
thing. The best cheque for the was
£BO, which went to Australia, the State
champion, skippered by J. Courtney. Ara-
watta, winner of the Australian title, raked
in £54.
* * * *
“Bias”: A party of N.S.W. bowlers which
recently visited a country town had an
experience so harrowing that its hair might
have turned white if it had had any. Ihe
pubs were full, it being Show week, and the
partv was put up in one large room m a
boarding-house. One and all forgot to
provide refreshment before closing time,
with the result that, it being a very
hot night, the party emptied the water-
jug in the room. Next morning someone
knocked over a screen guarding the empty
fireplace. This revealed 12 bottles of beer
which had been planted there for the benetu
of his unfortunate friends by a good Samari-
tan who had forgotten to notify them.


LEARN
TO PLAY
CORRECT
GOLF
I guarantee
to improve
your game
50 per cent.
/ V ■■ \
■
-
i
is*
t WWB
■ ..
' ,
v^x^r-•.../'
..
wm
11
I
&
m
:■•
>
FREE
To every student taking up
the Frank Eyre Postal Golfing
Course I am giving free—
ONE steel-shafted, hand-made
Frank Eyre Club.
ONE Golf Drive Perfecter.
The finest captive ball
appliance ever used.
I GUARANTEE
TO TEACH YOU
Just as if you were
standing in front
of me.
Cut out Coupon, sign
it clearly and post to
me to-day. You will
receive full details by
return mail.
FROM
AUSTRALIA'S OPEN CHAMPION
FRANK EYRE
So great has been the demand from golfers and
those desiring to learn the game that I have after
many months’ work completed my Postal Golfing
Course. Now every golfer throughout Australia
and New Zealand has a wonderful opportunity.
They can rest assured that I can teach them just
as if they were standing in front of me.
I’LL MAKE YOD A FINISHED GOLFER
During my many years in the golfing world I have introduced
many new ideas. I can teach you every stroke just as if you
were standing in front of me. 1 have guided and taught
many of Australia’s leading golfers, and I guarantee to
teach you. My scientific methods will give you absolute
mastery of the game. Even if you have never previously
had a golf stick in your hands it makes no difference
to me. My methods are too good, too time-tested, too
deeply woven into my 10 years’ experience and success
as an expert instructor to fail.
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO
Is to. take up my course by mail and do what it tells
you to do for 12 weeks, then the elusive art of golf
will no longer be a mystery to you. I will teach you
perfection in every stroke, with perfection will come
confidence, and with confidence will come the extreme
pleasure which only those golfers who have mastered the
game can feel. You will know more about the real
science of golf than most other people, who are chiefly
self-taught, and have never had the advantage of expert
coaching from a recognised expert.
MY GOLFING COURSE
Is profusely illustrated. Every stroke is thoroughly
explained and many new ideas are given. It is the
finest course of its kind ever published.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
Gut out Coupon below and post to me to-iday. Full
details will be sent to you by return mail.
COUPON.
FRANK EYRE,
209 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Frank Eyre,-—Kindly send me full particulars
your Postal Golfing Course. Phis (UK’s not commit me in
1 enclose 2d. stamp to help in postage.
14
regarding
any way.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
TOWN ..
STATE
Footbrawl
“Ruck”: The Americans are taking to
night football, and I don’t see why it
shouldn’t catch on in Australia. As far
back as 1879 a Melbourne promoter tried
the experiment. He had the ball painted
white, but the light was all too feeble (as
electric light was at that time), and mainly
for this reason the venture proved unsuccess-
ful. The notion was discussed in Victoria
about three years ago, but nothing came of
it. What about giving it a good trial? A
fellow gets tired of the talkies, and most
of the Stadium quarrels are up to putty.
The N.S.W. Rugby Union opens its Shute
Shield competition on April 25. Grade
matches will be played until July 18, by
which time each of the eight senior clubs
will have met the others twice. The premier-
ship final is set down for August 8. It is
probable that N.S.W. will not see a M.L.
Combined Universities XV in Sydney this
year. It was the All Blacks’ turn to come
this side the Tasman to meet Sydney and
Brisbane Unis.; but it has been suggested
that the tour be hung up until the financial
outlook is brighter. It will be a pity if this
happens, since the combined team invariably
provides fine football, numbering, as it
usually does, several M.L. Provincial repre-
sentatives in its ranks.
❖ ❖ ❖ si:
“Cash Amateur” : The dear old amateur-
status question cropped up again in Sydney
when it was announced that Syd Malcolm,
the Waratah scrum-half, would play with
Manly. As Malcolm lives at Newcastle it
will be necessary for him d:o journey to
Sydney each week-end for the matches.
Under Union rules he is entitled to travel-
ling and housing expenses, but someone
started a story that he was to receive a flat
rate of £3 a week. Last year, when he was
playing with another Sydney club under
similar conditions, his exes, worked out at
30s. per week, so to receive payment of
double that amount would be clearly an act
of professionalism. Malcolm denies that any
£3-a-week arrangement has been made, and
has asked for an inquiry, which, if granted,
may show that the tale is merely a bit of
anti-Rugby Union propaganda.
“Cash Amateur”: Sydney Uni. Rugby
League team hoped to be able to use the Uni.
oval this season, for the first time since its
inception. The Sports Union was willing, and
the Rugby Union applied for 10 dates only,
the League to have the rest. But Senate
ratification was required, and it was refused,
on the ground that the oval had been dedi-
cated for amateur sport; so the Union will
occupy the oval throughout the season. There
is no arguing against the Senate’s decision,
for the League game, interesting as it may be,
is an anomaly in ’varsity sport. As it is,
Sydney and Brisbane have the only Univer-
sity foundations in the world which counten-
ance the playing ,of a professional game by
their undergraduates.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The McHaggis”: There are complaints
that golf in Australia is becoming Ameri-
canised. There is a new school, sealed to
the standardised-club obsession, which refers
to its turf-digging tools as numbers 1, 2 and
so on, the names which have given such an
atmosphere to the game having been super-
seded. Terminological atrocities such as
“shooting birdie” are now common; in
fact, the influence of Hollywood, so marked
in other walks of life, has spread to. golf.
But one tradition holds. The Nineteenth
Hole is still sacred in our mouths, with all
its blessed implications. No one in prohi-
bition Yankeeland has been able to coin a
satisfactory equivalent.
“Hoylake” : Few people knew what Bobby
Jones’s middle name was until the American
golfer was recently awarded the Sullivan
memorial medal, given annually to the
athlete who “by his performance and
example and influence as an amateur and
a man has done most during the past year
to advance the cause of sportsmanship.”
When the champion’s name was listed head
of the 150 submissions it was seen that it
was Robert Tyre Jones. The man from
Georgia got double the number of votes
scored by the next competitor, while even the
well-advertised Helen Wills (as was) was
left running down the course.
* * * *
“Balgeny”: I was interested in that par.
(“The McHaggis,” B. 8/4/’3l) concerning
the complaint of a Scottish paper that a
Bulletin contributor had “flitted” the Car-
noustie golf course from Forfarshire to Fife.
In Scotch “flitting” means shifting done in
an arbitrary way. The phrase arose out of
the Scottish nobility and gentry, in the days
before the Union, being continually at dag-
gers drawn with their neighbors. There was
no organised football then, while two-up and
cricket had not yet been born. The only
diversion for young gentlemen of coat
armor was to tether a sow on the lands of
the opposition, having first decorated the
beast witli the opposition colors, and invite
the owners of the land to “flit” her, she being
defended by the cream of the challengers. In
one of these “flittings,” in the Stewartry
of Galloway, 30 young fellows of good family
perished in one hectic morning, all being-
members of the rival branches of the Ken-
nedy family.
“Carnoustie”: Many consider that all
golfers are eccentric, but. one Ralph Kennedy
is unique in respect of the form his
marnia takes. He “collects” golf courses
—that is, he is continually raking the world
for new courses, and, having found one, plays
on it and makes for another, his card being
attested by the professional at each club.
To date he has cards for 775 courses scat-
tered about the U.S.A., Cuba, Panama,
Ecuador and Peru. This coming season he
proposes to extend his collection by visiting
Europe.
“Number Nine”: Though old frequenters
of Japan will scoff at the idea that the
Nipponese has taken to golf (B. l/4/’3l),
there can be no doubt about it. In Japan
proper intense cultivation makes it impos-
sible to lay out satisfactory courses, save
in one or two favored localities where the
paddy and other farmers cannot find a foot-
hold. One of the best of the Japanese
courses is that at Hodogaya, not far from
Yokohama; here the aristocrats mentioned
by “SamQrai” do most of their playing —
mostly at week-ends. It is only a nine-
holer, but a pretty and sporting proposition.
Tokio also boasts a couple of nine-hole
courses, and there are others near Kobe and
Nagasaki. One at Karuizawa, in the moun-
tains, has a charm of its own. Overshadow-
ing the course is an active volcano, which
vomits smoke bjr day and flame by night.
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: The British Royal Auto-
mobile Club’s list of records made in 11)30
is eloquent testimony to the continued im-
provement in the design and capacity of the
modern car. There are 155 new sets of
figures, 84 over 100 m.p.h. and 22 in excess
of 120 m.p.h. The fastest spin of the year,
next to Campbell’s, was a kilometre by
Michel Dore in an eight-cylinder Panliard;
rate, 138.47 m.p.h. Two other notable feats
were the 100-kilometre and 10-mile records
made by Mrs. Stewart —128.06 m.p.h. and
137.21 m.p.h. respectively.
* * * *
“O.H V.”: When the six-cylinder motor
came out of Rolls-Roysterish circles and
began to officiate under the bonnets of the
humbler brands of petrol-waggon, there was
great controversy as to whether the extra
cost paid dividends in efficiency. To this
day the four-cylinder motor has a bit the
best of it on the score of running economy,
being a sparing swallower of petrol, but
the eight-cylinder job has already ousted
the six in the American market—2s out of
40 leading makers catalogue “eights,” and
there is at least one 12-cylinder car on the
market. Extra cost of manufacture doesn’t
weigh very heavily in these days of super-
efficient production, but the arguments that
were used against the “six” still hold good—
or 50 per cent, better—against the “eight.”
The extra cylinders give a little smoother
and quieter running, but as a matter of
mechanical efficiency the more cylinders you
have the less there is of it. The most effi-
cient internal-combustion motors to-day are
the single-cylinder engines that drive motor-
cycles, pumps and small dynamos, and they
have multi-cylinder types licked to a frazzie
for durability. There are motor-cycles still
running that have had 25 years’ service, and
some of the old two-cylinder French motors
that were shown at the Paris Exhibition of
1900 are just finding their way to the scrap-
heap. If America, like Australia, has
occasion to economise the four-cylinder
motor will be likely to return to the world
in all the blaze of glory that heralds a won-
derful discovery.
“Whizz” : One result of Campbell’s achieve-
ment at Daytona is an attack by a section
of the U'.S. press on wealthy folk who waste
huge sums on building yachts to defend the
America’s Cup. The carpers point out that
yacht races have no trade significance, while
the car industry is one of America’s most
important assets. As matters stand, the
engineering prestige of the U.S.A. has been
impaired, since on four separate occasions
British cars have been brought to America
to better the times put up bv the local pro-
duct. British superiority has been made pos-
sible, not only because of the willingness of
wealthy men to support these ventures, but
also by the practical encouragement given by
the Government.
“Worm Drive” : It may be too soon to judge
the effects of the abolition of the speed limit
in Britain, as from January 1, but reports
which have come over the cables are favor-
able. Italy has had over 18 months’ experi-
ence of unlimited speed, and votes the sys-
tem a success from the beginning. Pedes-
trians and car-drivers soon got accustomed
to it, and the percentage of accidents is
steadily decreasing. Neither in Italy nor
England, however, is unlimited speed under
all conditions permitted; the authorities
deal with those considered to be driving too
fast in special circumstances, such as heavy
traffic or dangerous road surfaces.
“Kick Starter” : Trading firms and others
interested have been discussing the institu-
tion of a world’s championship for motor-
cycles. There are already half a dozen cham-
pionship events in different countries ; it is
suggested that some of these be marked off as
star fixtures and a scale of marks fixed. At
the end of the season the competitor with the
greatest number would automatically take
the title.
Miscellaneous
“C. 8.” : Nowhere did the dogracing craze
have a more instantaneous appeal or last
longer than in Shanghai. The International
Settlement went to the hounds as one Chow.
Courses were laid out all over the place and
were open every day of the week. The
alleged sport was one that had a special
attraction for the Celestial mind; to the
Chinaman violent exertion is something to
be avoided and a fat stomach is the measure
of success in life. The popularity of effigies
of the Laughing Buddha, a pot-bellied god
clutching a moneybag, is an indication of
the national ideal. The Kuo-min-tang, which
is trying to stiffen the country’s fibre by
teaching perspiration for the soul’s sake, was
the first to protest against the tin-hare
curse, especially as it was drawing millions
of dollars into the foreign pale. Lately
the Shanghai municipal council was stirred
to action and closed the last course at Luna
Park. It is now being sued for £250,000 by the
proprietors, which are registered British cos.
“S.T.S.” : The controllers of Adelaide club
cricket had the well-meant idea of abolishing
“finals” this year and letting the plain
result of the whole season settle the premier-
ship. It didn’t work out well at all. The
old struggle to get into the top four went.
Placings became of no great interest, and,
with Glenelg long since settled —for the first
time—as premiers, the season fizzled out like
a damp firework.
“G.L.G.”: “W. G. Snort” (B. 8/4/’3l)
asserts that Cotter was a mere swiper. When
called upon. Cotter could play fine cricket and
hit with power and precision; his 68 against
Victoria in 1905 was a wonderful knock.
And why did “W.G.S.” omit Trumper from
his list? —Trumper, who hit the ball as hard
as any batsman who ever lived. There are
many who still imagine that Jack Lyons
broke the clock on the members’ stand at the
Sydney C. G. No one has ever done this.
The nearest approach I know of was a hit
by “Gar” Waddy. The wicket was pitched
on the extreme edge of the wicket-area on
the shilling-stand side; the ball landed on the
iron below the dial; I was the bowler.
Curator Stewart considers that the biggest
hit made in his time was one of Bill Howell's,
which landed on the turnstile roof at the back
of the Sheridan stand. Hugh Massie is
reputed to have pulled a ball from the prac-
tice nets, then located in front of the trus-
tees’ cottage, over the main grandstand, to
the foot of Scotchman’s H'ill.
“Gracemere” : The yacht Teddy, in which
the Norwegian world-wanderer Erling
Tambs won the Auckland-Sydney race across
the Tasman, is a craft the like of which has
never been seen in Australian waters, though
common enough in the pilot service of her
native seas. A 40-footer with excessive
beam, she is as powerfully-built as that
Fram which her designer, Colin Archer, of
Norway, built to take Nansen’s expedition
in the drift across the Polar ice-cap 40
■years ago. The family of her Scott-isli-Scan-
dinavian designer ranks among the pioneers
or’ Queensland squatting. Another member
was William Archer, the dramatic critic and
playwright.
“Spike”: Australian athletes attending
the Olympic Games at Los Angeles have
been asked to get off the boat on their way
back to figure in the Pan-Pacific Games at
Honolulu from August 24 to September 1.
Maoriland, Japan, the Philippines and other
countries bordering on the Pacific are also
invited to send representatives. Whether
they will do so or not largely depends on
finances. At present it is problematical
whether Australians will be seen at Los
Angeles. In past years of alleged prosperity
it was only with difficulty that funds could
be raised in Australia to finance an Olympic
side. This time the outlook is not encouraging.
“Bias” : Bowlers have a busy time ahead
of them. The Australian championships are
set down for Brisbane this year, opening on
August 24 with the singles. An invitation
for an Aussie team to visit South Africa
has been accepted, and the party will reach
Durban about Christmas time. A British
team will be in Australia the following
February, and the Americans want an Aus-
tralian side at the nation-wide bowling tour-
ney to be held at Los Angeles during the
Olympic Games. All these tours are likely
to' be rushed by candidates for selection —
except, perhaps, the last. That will be held
in a prohibition-stricken community.


Under 0
Royal
è
Tom
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
lasiecK
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
'^arlesHddsicui
Reims
“MERCURY" BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
if
.
Pd
Weaning time
is Benger time
When weaning time comes,
give Benger’s Food during the
transition stage from the breast
to ordinary food.
é
Food
for Infants,
Invalids and the Aged
Benper’s Booklet containing a Concise Guide to the rearing of Infants post free
from Bengers Food, Ltd., 350, George Street, Sydney.
A.264e Sole Manufacturers: BENGER'S FOOD, Ltd,, MANCHESTER, England.
ê
To
enhance
ijour beauty
BEAUTY of face is best
framed in a wealth of
charming hair. Make the most of your
hair as a background for your beauty by
using Rowland>s Macassar Oil twice a day.
Comb the oil well into your hair, when it
will show the gloss of health, and weak
and falling hair will be a thing of the fast.
Of all Chemists
. ■
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red
for dark hair,
Golden for fair
or grey hair.
ë
ē
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER.
The Governor-General and liis wife
will.be the guests of the Institute of Jour-
nalists at luncheon at Farmer’s on Monday,
April 27.
Full 270 delegates came to town last week
for the Country Women’s Association con-
ference, and indeed an agenda paper that
bristled with 19G resolutions needed a few to
cope with it. Of course, in many cases the
resolutions overlapped one another, and some
of them after analysis were found to be un-
constitutional. So the association has put
its thinking-cap on hard to find a way out of
this difficulty in coming years. For several
days the auditorium of David Jones’s pre-
sented a spirited scene, in which pleasant-
faced, capable-looking country women held
the attention; and there were press
photographers, amplifiers and all the
modern accessories without which no confer-
ence can be a success. And in tlm annexe
was an interesting show of woollies, and
hooked rugs, and mattresses filled with
scoured wool instead of kapok, and such-like,
all sent in from various centres of the C.W.A.
as a sort of Q.E.D. by the Use More Wool
campaigners.
The conference, which marks the ninth
milestone in the association’s life, was pre-
sided over by Mrs. Matt. Sawyer, the State
president, and opened by Lady Game, who
made a touching appeal for the country
women to continue their support of the Bush
Nursing Association. A birthday gift of
sixpence from each of the 13,000 members
of the C.W.A. was one of the money-raisers
suggested by her Ex. Notabilities in this
great gathering of women were Dame Alice
Chisholm, Mary Yeo, Mrs. Colin Venn, Mrs.
Matt. Sawyer and Mrs. Hubert Fairfax. The
last, of course, belongs to Queensland, being
State president there.
Among the Archibald competition por-
traits last year was one by Maoriland
artist Bowring of Isabel Fidler, B.A. In
this picture academic dignity and gentle
kindliness are nicely mingled, and it was
an excellent idea for admirers of the lady
to buy the portrait and present it to Man-
ning House at the University. Here it hangs
in the reading-room, where it was unveiled
last week by Deputy-Chancellor Mungo Mac-
Callum. For many years Miss Fidler lias been
tutor of women students at the University,
and in her time the number of such has
increased from 70 to 800. They all. con-
tributed to the purchase of the portrait.
With the passing of Jo O’Keefe last week,
Sydney has lost one of its outstanding per-
sonalities. Jo was a dress-designer of such
ability that it is said Roville himself gave
her the chance to join his London house.
She had wit and charm and a gift for friend-
ship, so that not only in Australia but in
Paris, New York and London will the news
of her death be received with mourning. Her
illness began shortly after her return from
Europe last year, and for six weeks previous
to her death she was in St. Vincent’s private
hospital. Probably no patient that famous
hospital has held has had so many or such
constant visitors. Every day her room was
brimming over with flowers; every day tele-
grams, letters and telephone inquiries poured
in. For Jo O’Keefe, of David Jones’s, was
one of Sydney’s most popular women.
Another link to bind Queensland to the Ma
State was forged last week when pretty
Doris Cameron became Mrs. John Manchee
at the picturesque little church of St.
Michael’s in Vaucluse. Doris is the elder
daughter of the D. A. Camerons, of Rose
Bay, and Woodlands, Mitchell (Q.) ; John,
who is a son of the well-known Manchees,
of Moree, has a property of his own at
Dirranbandi in the northern State. The
satin in the bi’ide’s frock was the tone of
mellow ivory, as was the tulle veil cascading
from a pearl head-dress and billowing over
the circular train, which was cut into the
skirt. The whole was served with feathery
cream chrysanthemums. Three ’maids in
amber satin, their heads garlanded with
autumn leaves, followed the bride, while
the ’groom had for company Leslie Hill,
Geoffrey Lamport and Max Smith.
Basil Regan and Kathleen Cavanagh spent
a very happy time at Easter in Tamworth,
where they were receiving congratulations on
their engagement. Kathleen, who is a clever
pianist, is the daughter of Mr. E. C. Cavanagh,
of Bellevue Hill, but has been living for
some months with an aunt, Mrs. McGee, of
Hadley, Warialda. She is the grand-daughter
of the late Patrick Cavanagh, who owned
many stations near Inverell, among them
Glen Prairie, now the property of the Colin
Sinclairs. Basil is a son of the late Charles
Regan and belongs to the third generation
living in Tamworth. H'e is one of the dis-
trict’s best amateur actors.
Margaret Manchee, who was Margaret
Egan till she linked up with Alan Manchee
last Thursday in the chapel of The
King's School,- is the eldest daughter of the
Egans, of Mount Harris. The Egan family
are among the best-known of the Western
graziers—you find them scattered about be-
yond Warren—and through her mother, who
was handsome Meta An till, Margaret is
related to the scores of An tills who claim
Jarvisfield, Picton, as the ancestral abode.
Margaret’s brother Ben, an old King’s School
boy, was one of the Waratalis who toured
England. Sister Sheila, who is still in the
sub-deb. stage, was the only bridesmaid at
the quiet ceremony.
The State is one of the few Sydney talkie
palaces whose Sabbath previews are for
“the trade” only. Publicity-veteran Hay-
ward is in charge there. Lonsdale’s “The
Devil to Pay” was shown, last Sunday, m
the presence of most of those prominent in
movie circles, all the film critics, and none of
the social stars who dominate such gather-
ings elsewhere. Veteran addicts voted this
Anglo-American film the best of its kind that
Sydney has seen, and this Letter’s Honorary
Carper had but one objection to it. He said,'
speaking as one who had lost money at
many Derbies, that there is no bosky dell oil
Epsom Downs from which the motoring
classes can gaze down on the race while pic-
nicking. The country round the classic
course is surrounded nowadays by miles of
wire and acres of grass, but hasn’t
enough trees on the high ground that
overlooks it behind Tattenliam Corner to
shelter a sheep. Yet one of the advisers
mobilised by the director was Lady Maureen
Stanley, daughter-in-law of the racing earl
from whose ancestor the Derby takes its
title.
Talking of the State, it was hard to believe
there was a Depresh on when one considered
the crowd that turned up for the first night
of “Hell’s Angels” on Friday. There
wasn’t a spare seat in the huge building by
8 p.m. A number of prominent aviators
faced a talkie camera in the vestibule before-
hand, and their effort was screened later on.
The heroes proved to be a tongue-tied lot,
with a tendency to smirk. All the best-known
brass hats in N.S.W. seemed to be in the
audience, and there was a glittering herd o c
uniformed and be-medalled fliers. But the
drab, bulldog figure of little W. E. Hart im-
pressed the writer most. He flew, it may be
remembered, over 20 years ago in a home-made
’bus—a period when merely to leave the
ground in a ’plane was a desperate adven-
ture. In the end he had one of the worst
crashes an aviator has ever survived.
At last, Jean, the eagerly expected daugh-
ter of the Lionel Lindsays, has arrived for
a visit to her native Sydney. Jean is now
Mrs. Noel Charley, of Coimbatore, India, and
has brought home to Wahroonga a baby
daughter, Helen Jane, plus an Indian ayah.
In the long ago Jean was a gentle poetess.
Perhaps hack here, where the tigers cease
from troubling and the cobras are at rest,
inspiration may return, for once a poet,
always a poet. Jean’s husband is Govern-
ment research engineer at the Madras Agri-
cultural College. Other returnees to Aus-
tralia last week were the Rodney Dangars
and the Anderson-Stuart lady, who came
back by the Maloja, bringing with her a
three-year-old grandchild, Mary Elizabeth
Stuart.
This is Ray Fox, a talented Australian
violinist, who has made a place for herself
in New York
and San Fran-
cisco, where
for two years
she was asso-
ciate teacher
with Mishcl
Piastro, one of
the noted
violinists of
America. In
addition, she
was a popular
radio and con-
cert artist in
San Francisco,
where she had
the pleasure of
seeing one of
her pupils
pluck the
Violin Scholar-
ship of the
San Francisco
Con servatory
of Music. At Sydney Con. next Thursday
(April 23) Miss Fox gives her first recital
in this city.
Last Friday night the Nieuw Holland
swung at the Quay, brilliant with lights and
bunting, a joy to the ferry travellers as
well as to the 800 who danced upon her flag-
enclosed decks or in their cooling-off
moments viewed the “talkie” on the top deck
of all. The Royal Packet Navigation Co.,
which lent the beautiful boat to the
Remembrance Ball Committee, did the thing
handsomely and supplied not only the deco-
rations but manv of the refreshments, so
there should be a comforting cheque to
sbare between the Sailors and Soidiers’
Fathers’ Association and the Bud Mayor’s
Relief Fund for the Maoriland earthquake
sufferers. Captain Bauer and R.P.N. Chiefs
Bakker and Lammers glowed with modest
pride at the compliments bestowed on this
belle of their line by members of the official
party. Among these Mayoress Jackson
looked impressive in royal blue georgette and
satin, the wing sleeves lined with cerise.
With her Senator came Mrs. Walter Kings-
mill, cheery in geranium-red laces, and the
wife of Maoriland’s Trade Commissioner
Schmitt turned on an effective line in black
georgette. This Letter also noted the pearls
of Mrs. Lammers, and the glittersome brooch
sported by Kingsford Smith’s pretty bride
in her silver tissue frock. This was a minia-
ture Southern Cross in diamonds and sap-
phires. Myrine Collins, who had sleuthed
publicity for the ball with unabated ardor,
wore black taffeta served with _ turquoise
ornaments, which is correct according to the
judgment of Paris. Rose velvet and old lace
were combined by jjilrs. R. J. Ilamilton-
Lewis, who with Major Everett was joint
secretary of the flutter. Philip Game,
Consul-General for the Netherlands Tcppema
and his wife, the Arthur Rickard couple
and Sophie Segaert were other merrymakers.
The good-looking lady in this Dayne pic-
ture is Mrs.: Colin Venn, re-elected State
president of
the Country
Women’s As-
sociation at the
just-concluded
annual confer-
e n c e. Mrs.
Venn is an
outback
woman, and
proud of it;
she was born
on a station
down Burrowa
way, and her
first husband
was Hugh
McMaster, of
W e e t a libali.
She was one
of the first
members of
the Cumber-
land branch
of the C.W.A.,
and was one of its first three presidents;
Mrs. James Ashton and Dame Alice Chis-
holm were the other two. Now Mrs. Venn is
president of the Harborside branch, so,
although her home is at Point Piper, she is
as immersed as of old in country interests.
The social weight of Government House is
behind the drive for funds for the District
Nursing Association, the concert on May
28 at Ginahgulla, the home of Miss
Fairfax, as well as the big bridge day at
David Jones’s on April 30, has the whole-
hearted support of Lady Game. The bridge
will strike a new note, as it will rage all
afternoon and evening. In the evening, the
young bridge group organised by Philip
Game will bring its forces to the fray.
The poor district nurse is having a trying
time, for more than ever in these lean days
she is called upon to be almoner as well as
nurse to her patients. And, of course, never
have the funds of the association been lower;
branches in many of the poorer suburbs are
now unable to gather in enough to pay the
cost of a nurse, and the D.N.A. has to make
up the difference with the subs, coming into
headquarters.
Of widespread interest was the wedding
of Margaret Herbert, youngest daughter of
the D. T. Herberts, of iCarroboblin, Forbes,
and David Warden, youngest son of the
W. D. Wardens, of Milton, last Satur-
day in St. James’s. David Warden is as
well known in North Queensland as his
family is in New South Wales, while Mar-
garet’s father is a member of the Graziers’
Council and a personality in the Central
West. The details were: One luscious wed-
ding dress, made of ivory satin, one volu-
minous veil of snow-white tulle, one bouquet
of red, red roses, one cerulean-blue-chiffoned
bridesmaid, one upstanding best man. The
honeymooners went to Melbourne and back
by car through three States to their home
at Oban, Dajarra (Q.).
A set of toy furniture sent to the Use
More Wool Show by Mrs. W. McGregor, of
Spring Bank, Yass, would be a joy to the
kindergarten teacher. It is made of pins,
chestnuts and wool. The backs of the chairs
are of pins (the heads upright), with the
wool wound in and out rather like basket-
weave. All the furniture legs are fashioned
in the same way. The tables are made by
sticking the pins in fairly close together
around the nuts and then winding the wool
tautly in and out.
At the Use More Wool exhibition was
a pair of gloves made by Mrs.' S. H. Har-
nett, of Cooma, out of an old coat. Another
ingenious lady from Boggabri displayed a
three-piece ensemble made of wool spun Ironi
the fleece; another hand-spun wool exhibit
was a white jumper ' trimmed with bands
spun from black fleece. Sheepskin rugs
tanned with wattle bark and gaily dyed,
hooked wool rugs, babies’ bootees, coats and
frocks (the last, as every mother knows,
are only for millionaires to buy ready-made
these times) bore tickets telling the cost ot
their making. In every case it was a
to bring a smile to the face of the thntty
or the hard-up woman.
Some pars, from Bananaland :
Pilot Scott, who looks like a cheerful footballer,
made a perfect landing at Archerfield aerodrome.
The Mayor met him and escorted him to the city,
gumtips and waratah being thrown into the car.
Crowds had waited for hours to view the latest
record-breaker among airmen, and the City Hall was
full of cheering spectators. Scott mentioned that
he had had a hungry trip, his first real meal having
been partaken of at Bagdad—an Indian curry which
he recalls appreciatively. In the evening he appeared
at the Theatre Royal, where Ueorge Wallace handed
him a cheque for SL 50.
“Bird in the Hand” was staged by the Allan
Wilkie co.—in His Majesty’s Theatre. Elma Gibbs,
who was in the Royal, with a company last year,
played daughter Joan, wearing in the last act an
apple-green linen that suited her fairness. Miss
Hunter-Watts wore the quiet froeking suitable to
the farmer’s wife. Allan Wilkie and Miss Hunter-
Watts went to Government House to luncheon with
Sir John and Lady Goodwin. Others present were
Mrs. E. K. Tully, Elina Gibbs, Mona Barlee, Reg
Dane and Fred .Ryder.
In honor of Mrs. Scott Fletcher, retiring president
of the Arts and Crafts Society, a tea was given at
the Lyceum Club by the president, Mrs. Bruce
Shearer, and members of the society, and an opal
brooch in hand-wrought silver was presented to the
guest. Mrs. Shearer wore cinnamon brown, and
Mrs. Fletcher pin-spot navy with touches of cherry.
Joseph Stanley Rowe took Beryl Edna Bagley to
wife in All Saints’, Wickham-terrace. Mr. Ayscough
was at the organ. The bride, who was given away
by her father, was in ivory bridal satin aiid Brussels-
net veil, mounted on pale pink. Eucharist lilies were
carried. . Gladys Bleeck and Ethel Rowe ’maided in
pink satin beaute and tulle bandeaux studded with
gold sequins and finished with blue forget-me-nots;
' their bouquets were pink roses.
In honor of Mrs. E. B. Moore, the Premier’s mother,
and Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart, the Town and Country
Women’s Club had a party in a setting of golden
marigolds. Mrs. Harry Cameron received. Feo
Todd, Nancy Muirhead and Jean McLaren made
music and song. Mrs. E. B. Moore was in pink
with a black hat, Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart in black
and white, and the hostess wore cherry, mastic and
blue-patterned crepe de Chine.
St. Michael and All Angels’, New Farm, saw
the wedding of John Eric Greening, of Clayfield, to
Lettie, daughter of the A. H. Petersens, New Farm.
The bride, who was given away by her father, was
in ivory mariette; stephanotis, eucharist lilies and
dahlias composed the bouquet. Alma Greening, in
pink, ’maided.
Crimson dahlias made gay the rooms in the Primary
Producers’ Bank buildings when the Lyceum Club
held its monthly meeting, Mrs. Edwin Munro being
in the chair and Irene Longman, M.L.A., Dr. Beatrice
Warner, Mrs. J. P. Lowson, Winifred Moore and
Madge Roe hostesses. Mrs. B. F. Robson gave a
travel talk. _ • . ■ .
A few lines from the Speck:—
Mrs. Rymill (Adelaide), who has been spending
some weeks in Hobart with her daughter and son-in-
law, the Tom Giblins, bade a muster of friends to
tea at Hadley’s by way of farewell, and also in
compliment to Nancy Giblin, whose marriage to
Lieut. Lethbridge comes oft’ next month. The tables
were gay with lovely dahlias.
The Deloraine Racing Club’s meeting was
an enjoyable affair. All the usual supporters from
the district, with a good sprinkling from Launceston
and the south, turned up, and Mr. Thos. Lyons, was
overwhelmed with congratulations on the winning of
the Cup by his game old racer Royal! Simon. Mrs.
Lyons motored up, and spent some time afterwards
at Quorn with her sister, Mrs. Tom Clarke.
Forty intrepid members of the Field Naturalists’
Club went into camp at Adventure Bay and enjoyed
the experience. Clive Lord and Mrs. Lord, Mr. and
Mrs. Clemes with two daughters, and E. W. Cruick-
shank were in the party. Big camp-fires and sing-
songs, lectures in the local hall and scientific ex-
plorations kept things going.
Championship tennis matches drew crowds to the
association courts in Launceston. The South came
out on top in the singles ; the mixed doubles went
to the North. Mrs. Bond (S.) won the women’s
championship for the fifth successive year, defeating
Brenda Piggott.
Matron Gluyas received a send-off at the Nurses’
Home, which was dolled up with flowers for the
occasion. Miss Overell wished her good luck on
behalf of a host of friends and presented her with
a wallet and a cheque. The lady has had a long
record of service at the Hobart General Hospital.
Miss Pigdon is back from London, where she spent
much of her time at the Lyceum Club, and has
resumed her job of hon. treasurer to the local
Lyceum.
Artist Eileen Dent, whose clever portrait of Mr.
Knight, Claremont, was an outstanding feature of
the last Art Society’s Exhibition, is returning to
Melbourne after a long stay in the Speck.


ass** mmssmm
8
5
I I
*%b to* IT to
s#
ss»
i. -
m-
L«
■
m
\
to.
S**
„ , , J Ait- >j
tototosSJitoS? I '-
•S •. ' s '■>
1 J.J :i Sjf '
to!
*" •
!<• » J
m m
ML
A:
:v> : ' :
it
f *
m
FORD CARS
TRUCKS AND
TRACTORS ARE
BRITISH EMPIRE
PRODUCTS
The New Ford Sports Coupe negotiating, at night, a difficult section of the notorious Kowmung Valley, N.S. W.
(Reproduced from actual flashlight photograph ).
Durability . . <> . far above the price
Striking evidence of Ford strength and durability was provided recently by the success of a
journey with a New Ford Car into the Kowmung Valley, New South Wales, through country never
before penetrated by car. Even more remarkable has been the performance of five Model A Ford
Cars engaged in passenger service between Geelong and Melbourne, carrying five passengers and
driver up to 275 miles daily. Each car has covered more than 100,000 miles in less than two
years (one has completed a mileage of 115,000) proving the truth of the maxim that
the Ford is built to endure .
. rord Motor Company of Australia Pty.
j
Ltd.
ĕ
N.C42/B


HOUSEHOLD PAGES
y SOCIAL NOTES-ALL
LAOVS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD,
it Etc. Etc. Etc. it
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES €*£
Chairman Geo. Crowley s Wild
Cat Finance Plan exposed in
“T H E BARRIER MINER,”
first of all papers.
The Great Daily of the Far West.
Published at Broken Hill.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nu[?] [?]
[?]
The opening of the football season affected
the attendance at Caulfield. The weather was
favorable, and it was warm enough even
for lightish frocks, but the suit with a belted
coat was first choice with the larger propor-
tion of fair racegoers. Mrs. Rupert Downes,
in flecked kasha in shades of brown and
a nigger-velvet beret, followed this fashion.
Mayoress Luxton, in all black, was accom-
panied by Mrs. U. J. Nicholas, similarly
attired. Mrs. Harold Newbigin’s tailored
suit was speckled navy and white, and Mrs.
Garnet Leary’s suit was pervanche blue.
Mrs. Guy Smith was in checked covering of
grey and black with a hat of the same
material, and her daughter Mary sported
ruby red. Mrs. Norman F'alkiner’s black
gown was worn with a vest of Patou pink.
Mrs. A. V. Hiskens had with her her daugh-
ter, Mrs. H. Anderson. June Baillieu, Jean
Lawrence, Betty Barrett, Beverley Jackson
and Kathleen Rogers Thomson were attrac-
tively-attired girls.
The Mornington Racing Club’s benefit
meeting for the Children’s Orthopaedic Hos-
pital at Frankston was blessed by perfect
weather. Ninety non-starters were nomi-
nated so that the fees could go to
the cause, and several bookmakers who
did not operate paid for permits. Cars
freighted with punters rolled up from all
directions, and the hon. treasurer was able
to declare a dividend of £5OO, which may
be increased by another £lOO by the sales
of motor-car mascots —-dolls dressed as
jockeys. This was the happy idea of
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, the fairy god-
mother of' the hospital, who gave £l5
worth of the dolls. They were sold
at a guinea upwards, according to the gener-
osity of the buyer, and sales on the course
brought in over £BO. Mrs. Mitchell and
Mrs. Barry Thomson, who conducted the
stall, were specially permitted to invade the
male members’ enclosure.
Mornington, which is just over the hill
from Frankston, possesses a picturesque
course, in which golf-links are incorporated.
A rise in the ground forms a natural grand-
stand, whereon is pitched a pavilion with
luncheon-rooms and so forth. At present
roses bloom just along the straight, sprout-
ing from beds of purple and yellow violas
and petunias bordering the slope of a ver-
dantly green lawn. The Hospital Handicap,
for which Mrs. Norman Brookes, the presi-
dent of the auxiliary, gave a gold cup, was
the chief event of the day, and was won by
In Petto, owned by J. Accola, whose son
rode the gee-gee. Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Brookes were there, she in pale grey velvet
coat with matching felt hat. Mrs. Lauchlan
Mackinnon, president of the Children’s Hos-
pital of Melbourne, handed over the cup,
Mrs. BrooSes having left early. With Mrs.
Mackinnon was Nancy Hewlett, who wore
a check tweed suit in brown and sulphur
shades with a brown beret. Mrs. Edmund
Collins, in Lido blue and felt hat, brought
daughter Cynthia. Mrs. T. Ritchie, Mrs.
W. E. B. MacLeod, Mrs. Derham, Mrs. A. V.
Kewney and Mrs. A. Currie were in the
throng, also Ella Payne, a study in light
brown. Beverley Jackson accompanied her
mother, Mrs. B. Cunningham; and Susie Toi-
hurst forsook the golf links for the gee-gees
that afternoon. Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Pearce
and daughter Elaine, Mrs. Roy King, Nan
Guthrie and Mrs. J. McComas were other
sports who attended.
At a reception given by Mrs. Harry Cres-
wick at her Toorak home, Yarrien, Lady
Somers, in apricot-pink georgette with
matching coat embroidered in gold, said
“thank you” for her first farewell gift. This
was a lovely blackwood box presented by the
C.W.A. The vice-regal lady presided at the
founding of the Vic. branch of the associa-
tion three years ago and has watched it
grow to a membership of 5000. The party
was for the entertainment of visiting dele-
gates, and about 170 guests stepped over the
parqueterie floors and Persian rugs of the
handsome old mansion. Masses of ferns and
foliage with dahlias were used in decora-
tion ; and Florence Erikson and Norman
Menzies sang. Supper was laid in the ball-
room, where pink-shaded candles shed radi-
ance over polished mahogany and rosewood
tables. Mrs. Creswick’s white tulle gown
was sparkled with tiny crystal bugles and
silver sequins. The retiring president, Mrs.
J. S. Fraser, whose frock was patterned in
large pink roses on a brown background, and
the president-elect, the Mitchell lady, in
black with an appliqued design and black
sequins, received with the hostess.
Mrs. Ron McDonald, in charming filmy
black lace gown, and Miss M. Spier, wearing
flowered chiffon, accompanied Lady Somers.
Among the country visitors were Mrs. Murray
Black, of South Gippsland, whose attire
was wine-colored velvet, and Mrs. Balmer,
of Ballarat, who was accompanied by her
daughter, Miss Balmer, president of the
C.W.A. junior section of that town. Mrs.
W. E. Sargood, of Corowa, was there in
ninon draperies patterned in black and pink;
and Mrs. S. J. Staughton, of the Western
District, mingled silvery-grey lace and chiffon
in her gown. Mrs. lan Currie wore an
arresting black gown of ninon adorned with
black velvet that began as narrow bands
about the corsage and developed into petal
frills at the skirt hem ; some jade jewellery
was worn with this. Mrs. Pittendrigh was
wrapped in amber-colored georgette. With her
were Lynette Dickenson, in black chiffon;
Gwynneth Blogg, in whose gown white tulle
was laid over flounces of rosy hue; and
Miss Sandland, of Westralia, whose frock
was geranium-red. Marjorie Forbes, niece
of Mrs. Creswick, sported powder-blue
georgette, and Mrs. Murray Waller, organis-
ing secretary of the association, wearing
figured chiffon in shades of jade, black and
yellow, helped to make the folk known to
each other.
The Uni. Commencement Ball at St. Kilda
Haza was attended by 900, and professorial
staff, graduates and undergraduates brushed
shoulders in the jazz. Chancellor MacFar-
land, medical-kniglit James Barrett and his
lady, and Prof, and Mrs. Agar were guests
of honor. Proceeds went to the Lud Mayor’s
fund, the secretary of which, E. Glanville
Hicks, brought his wife, who was clad in black
tulle. Miss H. Stuckey, a member of the
organising committee, danced in pale-green
chiffon, and Miss A. V. Scott, one of the
hon. secs., sported black georgette with dainty
frills.
The conferring of degrees took place
on Saturday afternoon, with the usual garden-
party afterwards, invitations to which were
issued by the Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor and
Council of the Uni. Pomp and circumstance
attached to the degree-giving in Wilson Hall,
which was just large enough to hold the
graduates. Prof. Osborne oaid a tribute to
Chancellor MacFarland, who on Sunday cele-
brated his eightieth birthday. An honorary
Doctorate of Letters fell to Charlie Bean, the
Australian War Historian, and A. J. Ralton
became the first Bachelor of Architecture of
the Uni. Eva Ruth Silverman, only 22, was
acclaim' 1 Bachelor of Laws. At the garden-
party academic gowns, hoods and millinery
brightened the dress-parade, the vivid colors
of the faculties putting feminine attire well
in the background.
The commem. day procession consisted
chiefly of lorries crowded with weirdly-
dressed or underdressed youth. There was
none of the horseplay usually associated with
this annual jollification. The traffic was held
up for a considerable time, but the onlookers
who swarmed over the tramlines to. glimpse
the fierce dragon and other exhibits were
partly to blame for that. Mickey and Minnie
Mouse, with a saxophone, danced nimbly;
a bogus Lud Mayor held levee on the Town
Hall steps, and a burlesque fire brigade dashed
around the city so continuously that tram-
men cursed beneath their breath. There was
a serious motive in this merry-making, for
the students, including girls, paraded the
streets and combed offices selling buttons
and a special issue of the Uni. mazagine,
“Shop Soiled,” for the Lud Mayor’s fund.
About the streets also were placed green
wooden buckets with a request to the public
to drop pennies therein.
About 200 people went to play bridge or
dance at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Ernest W. Cox, at Royal Park, to assist
the candidature in the Blind Appeal Queen
competition of Myra Marsh, nominated
by the tramways, and now well in the lead.
Mr. Cameron and other tramway officials
were there. Mrs. Cox, who was assisted by
her daughter, Mrs. Ricker, and . willing
friends, wore garnet-red taffeta with gold
lace ; she and her husband were thanked by the
manager of the R.V.1.8., Mr. S. W. Hedger.
Madame Ivroef and Victor Baxter sang, and
two members of the Blind Orchestra, which
played for the dancers, contributed songs and
monologues.
Associated with the C.W.A. conference
was a loan exhibition at Howey Court of
articles in which wool was utilised. On the
first day a Hard Times Sale, engineered by
the younger
members of
the associa-
tion, was held
in conjunction
with the show',
and attracted
such a crowd
that the sales
ladies were in
danger of
being over-
whelmed until
a policeman
was called in
to admit likely
pu rch asers
and keep out
the merely
curious. When
Lady Somers
arrived, smart
in black and
white ensemble
and red straw
hat, to receive a posy for opening the dis-
play, order had been restored. A streamer
hung from the centre of the room carried
the legend “Use More Wisdom and Use More
Wool.” On show was a fine assortment of
needlecraft, some of it dating back to the
seventeenth century. There were samplers,
framed wool-work pictures, fire-screens;
a panorama _ of Melbourne in its in-
fancy ; still-life studies of flowers and
fruit; figures, including one of St. Pat-
rick, and some particularly appropriate
designs which portrayed children and
baa-lambs. Some old Paisley shawls, Per-
sian praying-rugs, various samples of em-
broidery, decorating mantle drapes and
cushions, and some fine examples of machine-
made furnishing tape.stry figured among the
accumulated treasures. The Mitchell lady
and Mrs. R. T. A. McDonald were respon-
sible for the collection of these valuables.
Dickinson-Monteath pictures Mrs. McDonald,
who is the wife of .Captain Ron McDonald,
secretary to Lord Somers.
A new bunch of women workers for the
Queen Victoria Hospital have formed a social
club. They pledge themselves to give at least
one entertainment a month for the funds;
the first was a bridge party at Mrs. T.
Crisp’s. The hostesses were Mrs. L.
Hunter, in powder-blue georgette; Mrs.
Saunders, whose frock was black net much
frilled; and Mrs. E. A. Mustar, in beige
georgette with gold embellishment. Mrs.
Mustar is the wife of Captain Mustar. of
the R.A.A.F., who did pioneer flying for New
Guinea Airways; at present he represents
the Vacuum Oil Co. in Papua. Mrs. Crisp
wore brown lace. Mrs. W. M. Robins, presi-
dent of the hospital’s auxiliaries, was there.
The Town Hall has been pervaded by the
scent of roses mustered in all their varied
color and beauty in the National Rose
Society’s Show r . Though weather conditions
just before the display had been as unfavorable
as they well could be —bitter cold followed
by warm wind —entries were of a surprisingly
high standard. The climbers and ramblers
were a joy to behold, and the champion tear
rose, a deep pink Dame Edith Helen, looked
as if dust and wind had never touched its
perfectly moulded petals. The single roses,
among which were several new seedlings
from Alister Clark’s garden, looked a bit
tossed, but on the whole the growers seemed
to have waged a successful fight with the
elements. A curious exhibit was a not-fully-
opened blossom of palest lime green tint
that bore the name of Phoebe. Those heavily
perfumed deep red varieties L’Etoile de
Hollande and Chateau de Clos Vougeot were
to the front in great array. The vogue
of the scentless rose is definitely on the
wane.
Dr. John Edward Dunn has taken unto him-
self as life-partner Eileen Mavis Forsyth,
the contract being signed at St. Columba’s,
Elwood. The bridal raiment was silk net of
palest pink hue, all frills, and a tulle veil
of the same elusive shade. Elaine Catford
came from Bendigo to be her cousin’s
bridesmaid, sharing these duties with Car-
mie Kilpatrick. Their frocks formed a sort
of foliage background of light green.
The heads of the schools represented in
the annual Head of the River race have won
the day, and this year there will not be so
much public lionising of the competitors.
Heats and finals will be rowed a Hay earlier
than formerly, cutting out the Saturday and
thus curtailing the number of spectators.
Here is Eric L. Morris, of the Bank Offi-
cials’ Association Dramatic Club, who is
making his way as a playwright. His plays,
when in musical form, are written in colla-
boration with
Jack Ricketts,
of Middle
Park, an 18-
year-old com-
poser whose
future look s
promising. The
“P o t Luck”
revue recently
produced at the
Tivoli con-
tained samples
of their work,
and the charity
revue, “Youth
and Laughter,”
shortly to 1> ■
produced in
Melbourne, is
mainly tli e
creation of the
Ricketts - Mor
ris eombina-
t i o n. M r.
Morris is on the staff of the E., S. and A.
Bank’s branch at Ormond.
Lilydale is anxious to have a Bush Nurs-
ing Hospital of its own, and in order to
get funds a “Back-to-Lilydale” week was
held at Eastertide. This district has long
been associated with Melba. Her father had
land there, famed on bygone times for grape-
growing. Just on the outskirts of Lilydale
is Coombe Cottage.
Pianist Mischa Levitzki was welcomed at
the Lyceum clubrooms by the Music Club,
T, Brentnall and Fritz Hart saying the
greetings. Mr. Levitzki, in replying, agreed
with Mr. Hart that some of the modern
composers might be classical a century hence,
but said tliat in arranging his programmes
the difficulty was that he wasn’t a prophet.
Frederick A. Pitman, who succeeds Muriel
Cheek as conductor of the Lyric Choral
Society, came to this State about four years
ago owing to his .son’s ill-health, and went
on the land. He is an Associate of the
Royal College of Music, and toured the world
with the Westminster Abbey Glee Singers a
quarter of a century ago. He is also a player
of the viola. He and Fritz Hart were fel-
low-choristers at St. John the Evangelist
Church, Norwood, England, and it was from
Mr. Hart’s father that Mr. Pitman had his
first lessons.
Stanley Parker, whose drawings of famous
people are gaining him much praise, has
gathered a crop of notables for the
book, “Personalities,” which he is preparing.
Lord and Lady Baden-Powell, Dame Clara
Butt and A. P. Herbert were his latest
gleanings. The Chief Scout, who was
sketched at the Scouts’ dinner at the Town
Hall, was so impressed with his portrait
that he signed it and gave the young artist
an autographed photograph. Mr. Herbert,
persuaded to sit for a sketch for the first
time, liked the result so much that Mr.
Parker’s library has been enriched by signed
copies of “The Water Gypsies” and “Broad-
rows.” Clara Butt, who noticed the artist
sketching her at a concert, asked to see the
picture, which pleased her extremely. She
ordered two drawings of herself and sent an
autographed copy of “The Lost Chord” with
the cheque.
There was a celebration at the Trades
Hall last week in honor of Dr. Maloney’s
77th birthday. The “little doctor” lias had
42 years of service in Federal and State
Parliaments. A cake bearing 77 candles
was a feature of the festivities, and among
the gifts was a camera presented by the
Chinese community.
The usual procession of people carrying
cushions and rugs streamed into the Botani-
cal Gardens for the last of a series of final
Sabbath-afternoon concerts by the Symphony
Orchestra. Conductor Fritz Hart gave a
preliminary chat regarding compositions and
composers. On the lake, which reflected
gold and russet foliage, black swans glided
about majestically, fitting in well with the
rhythm of a Mozart Andante.
The Baden-Powells have been guests
at Balmoral of General Neville Smythe, a
cousin of Lord Baden-Powell.
A Westralian budget:—
The Polo Club Ball, always one of the earliest
fixtures of the dancing season, was held in Temple
Court. His Ex. brought his sister, Miss Campion,
wearing black with diamente shoulder straps. Mrs.
Carcary’s black gown had deep insertions of pale pink
upon the corsage; Mrs. Grimwood trailed a spray of
green flowers upon her shoulder; Mrs. J. Charles wore
black and a wine-shaded coatee; Mrs. D’Arcy, Mrs.
Irwin Burges and Mrs. Langlois Lefroy were other
devotees of black; Mrs. Stewart’s choice was a
souffle of cream and pale pink; Mrs. Noonan’s metal
lace was shot with strawberry and black ; Mrs. T. A.
L. Davy’s satins were of turquoise hue, and Mrs. Schle-
singer, who accompanied her, wore red the color of
tawny port. Mrs. J. Hearman’s sheath-like peacock
gown suited her good carriage; Lois Bateman wore
water-green and Jean Smith chose a paler shade of
mignonette ; Mrs. Oscar Copley’s blue chiffons had
a double-tiered skirt; Mrs. Geof. Maxwell attached
a spray of red roses to the back of the waist of
her taffetas; Betty Simpson’s pink brocade was
bunched in pannier effect; Edna Noble fluttered
greeny chiffons; Jo Davies wore dark red, and
Margaret Paton blush-pink net cut with demure
frills.
The Polo Club’s new grandstand was a great
acquisition at the gymkhana. Under the structure
there is a room used for informal meals ; tea, brewed
outside on a brushwood Are, was passed through
a pigeon-hole in enormous enamel pots—a welcome
beverage, especially for the competitors, who got
caught in a drizzly shower. Miss Campion handed
over the array of bear-mugs, shaving sets, ’bacca
pouches, necklets and crystal to the successful en-
trants. Town defeated Country in a pitched fight,
and there were market races, musical chairs, bending
races, flag races, apple grabbing and making-up-face
competitions. Among the girls, Mrs. J. Hearman
carried off most of the spoil.
Catherine Agnes Smith, of Canungra (Q.),
was married on a recent evening in Christ Church,
Claremont, to Clive Benson Hull, of Auckland (M.L.).
The bride wore ivory satin with a veil of palest
pink and white tulle falling into a misty train.
A chin strap of orange buds was attached to her
little lace cap. The one attendant, Mrs. H. Bacon,
wore a metal lace gown, a tulle and plume head-
dress, and carried pink and gold roses.
An ambitious pair, Elaine Pennifold, a young
Sydney violinist, arid pianist Doreen Bray, gave a
sonata recital in the Karrakatta Club Hall. The
young musicians proved themselves capable of the
brilliant execution called for by Bach’s A major,
Schumann’s D minor and Elgar’s E minor sonatas.
Miss Pennifold’s long curly bob flowed about the
brilliant-studded shoulders of her tight-fitting pink
satin gown. Miss Bray wore white moire, and both
received bouquets of red roses. Bob Buchanan’s
melodious voice assisted them; Mrs. Buchanan,
wearing blue brocade, accompanied him.
Captain Jack Thurston, who pilots a schooner of
his own about the islands of the Western Pacific,
has announced his engagement to Roma Bryant, of
Rabaul. He is the youngest son of the A. E.
Thurstons, of Perth.
Every year since 1913 Uni. students have had their
degrees conferred in Government House ballroom.
This year the lofty structure was used for the last
time. There was no procession, but the usual high
jinks took place before the graduation proper. To
the Grad. Ball in the evening his Ex. brought Miss
Campion, in green flowered ninon. Mrs. Ross wore
black lace; Mrs. Fox buttercup georgettes, and Dr.
dull black ninon and lace. Margaret Leckie, Margaret
Prisk, Miss La Nauze, Philippa Richardson, Mrs.
Alan Preshaw and Ray McClintock were in the bevy
of dancers.
South Australia joins in; —
April has witnessed a boom in weddings. On
Wednesday evening, at St. Matthew’s, Marryatville,
W. J. Masson, manager of the Bank of Adelaide,
handed over his handsome eldest daughter, Olive, to
Frank H. Moody, of Melbourne. It was a most
striking bridal group, as the bride, her two sisters
Mollie and Joyce, and Daphne Moody (bridesmaids),
the bridegroom, his three male supporters and the
bride’s father were all over 6ft. The ’maids, like
the bride, wore long-trained white satin frocks;
large apple-green hats and tulle muffs in the same
shade gave the only touch of color. The reception
and supper were held at the Hotel St. Vincent,
Glenelg; later the party went on to the Maison
and danced until 2 a.m.
Another wedding the same day was that of Mavis,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. Marsh, of Gawler, to
Dr. W. Gilfillan. The ceremony took place at the
pretty little Church of the Epiphany at Crafers, the
reception and afternoon tea being held at the resi-
dence of the bride’s godmother, Mrs. Dudley Turner,
at Mount Lofty.
Valesca Reimann, daughter of Professor Reimann,
of the Elder Conservatorium, arrived by the Maloja
to spend a month’s vacation in Adelaide with her
parents. Miss Reimann is a teacher of classics at
Trinity College, Kandy, Ceylon.
Boy Scouts and Girl Guides are coming up from
the country districts in swarms. Six hundred of the
boys are camping on Captain White’s property at
Fulham. Mrs. Charles W. Hayward is giving an
at-home in the Freemasons’ Hall, North Terrace, to
meet the Chief Guide (Lady Baden Powell).
Tattersall’s Club meeting at Victoria Park was
well attended and summer wear predominated. Mrs.
P, J. Flannagan, wife of the cheery chairman, was
in a white crepe de Chihe frock and a white sisal
straw hat. The Moulden lady was another who
favored white, with a green hat.
The Mayor and Mayoress gave a welcome-home
reception to Douglas Mawson. The explorer and his
handsome wife stood with the mayoral couple as
they received. The guest, in his speech, mentioned
that many of the mountains and new locations they
had inspected had been named after prominent Adel-
aide men. Mrs. Glover was wearing a navy georgette
toilette and navy baku hat. The Mawson lady was
in a fawn ensemble and a wide-brimmed fawn hat.
Knights George Murray and William Mitchell, the
Sowdens and other notables were among the throng.
The Moulden lady gave a small dance at Lordello,
North Adelaide, at which Deborah, the last of her
daughters, made her debut.
Very successful was a gift tea in aid of the
Mothers and Babies’ Health Association, held at
St. Corantyn, the residence of Mrs. Lavington Bony-
thon. Tea was served in the ballroom and dining-
room and the stalls were on the verandah. The
floral display throughout the house was gorgeous
with blooms from the hills.
J. L. Howard, just appointed tutor in French and
German at our Uni., has had unusual experience of
foreign countries. For five years he taught German
at the Tashkent Grammar School in Turkestan, and
for 15 years prior to the Revolution in Russia he
was tutor in French and German for the University,
the Imperial School of Law and the Corps des Payes
in St. Petersburg.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
_ £2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
VISITORS WELCOMED TO
LONDON’S FOUR MOST
UP-TO-DATE RESIDENTIAL
HOTELS.
Close to Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens;
Within 3 minutes of Tube; Open to Non-
Residents and Daily Terms as required ; No noise
though Central; Garage; Night Porters ; All bed-
rooms have hot and cold water, gas fires;
Exchange Telephones; Central Heating.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
Accommodation 120 guests. Special Terms for
Winter Residence.
Winter Garden; Palm Court; Louis Seize
Drawing-room and Lounge; Tudor Smoke and
Billiard Rooms; Special Dinner Dances.
Wedding Receptions and At-homes a Specialty.
Single Rooms from 4 Guineas. Double from
‘it Guineas. Bed and Breakfast from 9s. Oil.
Telephone, Park 9901.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL.
66-69 LANCASTER GATE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
Established over 20 years. New extensions of
50 rooms now ready. This hotel has been artis-
tically decorated throughout and offers unusually
spacious and attractive reception rooms.
Terms from 4 Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast from Ss. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 9121.
PARK ROYAL HOTEL.
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
This charming hotel offers terms from 3 Guineas
per week. First-class reception-rooms and cuisine.
Inspection invited. Accommodation for 90 guests.
Delightful home for residents.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 9712.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL.
29-31 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK. W. 2.
Recently acquired, newly decorated and refur-
nished ; delightful reception-rooms. Refinement
guaranteed, with young and cheerful society.
Terms from 3 Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 8322.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
of Queens/and*s
Entire Population .
$
In Greater Brisbane
®he Brisbane (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marketj from:
SThe Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
ė
ourthe Pacific Islanps
Visit the Beautiful Solomons.
Lazy Days for Vacation Delights.
A happy, carefree cruise to an ideal holiday land!
For rest, for play, for thrilling new experiences. . . .
ę
• /
PI
'* v- ;
-
spsawmsasai
ě
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
e
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
è
é
.THINK OF
( SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
A tjL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
A crabber of Shaw stands convicted of
icw-browism in most circles, but here goes
m the interests of honesty. “How He Lied
to Her Husband,” the master’s first talkie
at Sydney Lyceum, is rotten. Of all his
plays it is perhaps the most unsuitable for
the screen. It is pitilessly wordy; it has no
change of scene, and practically no action;
and tjiere arc only three characters, all of
whom talk fast and, for the most part, at
the top of their voices. Many of the jokes
are West-End-of-London jokes—class jokes—
and some have ceased to have any point even
in London. When Mr. Bumpus boasted 30
years ago that his wife “was the smartest
woman in South Kensington” he probably
got a guffaw of the kind that is secured by
modern vaudeville references to l’urley. But
South Kensington is no more middle-class
than Chelsea nowadays; and, anyhow, wliat
do distinctions of the sort signify to talkie
patrons outside England ? On the night this
critic visited. the Lyceum such flashes of
Shavian satire were greeted with pained
silence.
The quality of the acting falls far short
of the Parisian standard set by the stars
who have been lured to Hollywood; in fact
it is below Elstree’s normal form. And the
photography is crude. “Brassbound’s Con-
version” is the kind of colorful Shaw comedy
that might be attractive as a talkie, but
money would have to be lavished on the
production and casting to give it a chance
againsi U.S.A. competition. Very little can
have been spent on “How He Lied to Her
Husband.”
* * *
A farce called “Reaching for the Moon”
follows “How,” etc., at the Lyceum. Doug-
las Fairbanks, as a Wall-street magnate,
falls for Bebe Daniels, who is rolling in it
herself. As he has not made love before he
gets his valet, Eddie Everett Horton, a
student of the art, to give him some tips.
Claude Allister is Sir Horace, the lady’s
English admirer, and Jack Mulhall is there
or thereabouts most of the time. And they
are only a few of the stars in the big cast!
Most of them leave for England on a vessel
that makes a crack liner on one of our runs
look poverty-stricken, and, after certain
hilarious complications, Bebe falls for Doug
(bringing a fleeting note of genuine emotion
into the absurdity in the process) and there
is a wedding. The accents of the principals,
barring Mr. Allister, who plays an English
ass on traditional lines, are lacerating, those
of Mr. Fairbanks and Miss Daniels being
about the woist.. But their good looks and
astonishing elan make up for much. You
forget their gutter voices as you look at
their exquisite clothes, listen to their witty,
up-to-the-minute gags, and come under the
spell of their bizarre magnetism.
“The Royal Family of Broadway,” at
Sydney Capitol, purports to show the Barry-
mores in their habit as they live. The pro-
position is that mummers must go on mum-
ming till they die, and the Cavendishes cer-
tainly act hard whether on or off the stage.
Most of the action takes place in grand-
mother Cavendish’s palatial home. Henri-
etta Grosman makes the grandmother a
royally handsome old egotist, who boasts of
her past triumphs, declaims, sneers at the
talkies, strikes attitudes, and, by collapsing
with heart attacks, monopolises the lime-
light again from time to time. Ina Claire,
as her daughter, promises reluctantly to
marry a millionaire; Mary Brian, as Ina’s
daughter, is also disposed to let marriage
prejudice her career, but the old lady’s son—
a replica of John Barrymore—is made of
sterner stuff. He arrives as a tempestuous
and picturesque refugee from a Hollywood
breach action, trailing female underclothes
as he unpacks, so to speak. A clever study,
and one that would be criminally libellous
outside the U.S.A. The piece ends on a
hackneyed note: the mother dies of one of
her heart attacks in the wings, and the
daughter, who is starring in the show, leaves
the body, pulls herself together and walks
on to play her part. Otherwise it is all
gay, unexpected insanity, brilliantly acted,
produced and photographed.
¥ V 1 ¥
Paramount’s “Hell’s Angels,” first shown
at Melbourne Capitol and now at Syd-
ney State, is undoubtedly the latest
word in flying films. A Zeppelin bombs
London, the h.e. being made to fall harm-
lessly in the Serpentine by a German ob-
server whom an education at Oxford has
turned into a pacifist. The defending ’planes
go up and the dirigible flies for her life.
When it is seen that she is being overtaken
all the unneeded members of the crew obey
the order of their captain and jump over-
board to lighten the craft. She is finally
brought down by a British pilot, who de-
liberately turns himself into a projectile and
dives into the gasbag of the enemy. Later
there are more deeds of heroism on both
sides in France. A captured German bomb-
ing ’plane is used by two English airmen
to blow up an enemy ammunition dump.
Nothing is left to an audience’s imagination
here, men, horses. buiMingjs and motor-
waggons hurtling through the air. Rich-
thofen’s flying circus catches the nefarious
British at it, and the final scene is one pro-
longed orgy of battle, in which 100 ’planes
collide, catch fire, blow up, crash, crumple
and collapse in a loud, wild, billion-dollar
appeal to the emotions of a peace-loving
generation which demands limitation of
armaments anywhere but on the screen. In-
cidentally, in this case, the ordinary screen
is insufficient for the producer’s Napoleonic
needs, and every now and then the size of
the picture is enlarged to the edges of the
proscenium arch. The above display of photo-
graphic genius is used to bedeck a story of
the penny-novelette type. A young Englishman
is caught in a compromising situation with
the wife of a Prussian officer in Munich and
is promptly invited to fight a duel. He runs
away, but the war brings the parties together
again, when the Englishman crashes behind
the German lines. American actors take
the English roles, which is curious consid-
ering the trouble Hollywood goes to to get
Germans for German parts and Frenchmen
for French ones.


Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
446 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3,6, 12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 % PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 50/-
MERCHANIS AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
ê
ë
k
Every 500
Miles of Travel
The ALEMITE System
of Lubrication certainly
solves the problem of fric-
tion. Keep your bearings
clean eliminate sand,
grit and dirt—and you pos-
itively eliminate friction.
F riction is the cause of hard
riding, squeaking cars.
The ALEMITE Pressure Lubrication Gun, illustrated
on the right, forces ALEMITE Lubricant, a pure solid-
ified oil—under tremendous pressure—right into the
bearings. All dirt, sand and grit is forced out—
leaving the bearings clean and perfectly lubricated.
Don’t forget to watch your lubrication as carefully as you watch
your petrol supply —every 500 miles —it is really more important.
ALEMITE CORPORATION - - Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd. . . . 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty) Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED .... 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
ē
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
LUBRICATION
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY
ĕ
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevenng.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. _ Start your new
career now. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPEGIA
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. _
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
I [Sappho Smith] hear that hand-painted
shirt-fronts are the latest caper for Johnnie-
dom at ’Ome [1895]. They run in all pat-
terns. One had a trail of forget-me-nots;
another was peppered with pink roses;
another had a flight of exquisitely-painted
butterflies, though their chiefest charm is
GREASING THE FAT PIG.
L.B.M.: “Aren’t you putting it on rather thick, Mac?”
TREASURER MCMILLAN : “P’raps so. But it don’t cost me any-
thing: besides, the pig likes it — oh, he does like it!”
[13/12/’90.]
their expensiveness, “for it all comes out in
the washing.” I don’t blame —well, I won’t
say men, but dudes —for trimming them-
seives thus. Even a Johnnie can’t stand
being dressed like his contemporary woman,
and now that Eve has taken his collar and
tie, his cut-away coat, his cropped hair and
eke his breeks, Adam, in self-defence, if he
wishes to preserve his masculine individu-
ality, must cultivate a curly bank, a painted
shirt and crimson socks to prevent the sexes
becoming sartorially equal at least.
“Why am I like a pin?” asked Mr. Witty -
man triumphantly to his wife. He expected
she was going to say, “Because you are so
sharp,” and he was simply paralysed when
she responded: “Because if you should get
lost it wouldn’t be worth while to spend
time looking for you, and because two hun-
dred of you put up in a bundle wouldn't
be worth twopence.”
The attention lately devoted by lady-scribes
to the art of fixing up “rekerky” sitting-
room kilick-knacks out of cast-off household
materials induces us to here offer a few sug-
gestions in the same line. A pair of pa s
old boots, touched up with gold paint, make
very pretty wall ornaments. To add to
the effect, put patches of cotton-wool on the
legs to imitate snow. An old pair of corsets,
fastened round a zinc bucket and ornamented
with creeping vines and pretty designs in
leaf, makes a very elegant ornament to
hang behind a bedroom door for the purpose
of holding sewing and crochet-work materi-
als. As an ornamental design for a front
hall take a dozen jamtins and paint each
one a different color. Tie a bow of pretty
satin ribbon of various shades about each
tin, run a clothes-line covered with Berlin
wool through the lot, and hang them on the
wall close to the ceiling. One can hardly
imagine how sweetly pretty the effect of this
exquisite collection is, especially if the tins
are filled with broken red bricks and hung
so as to allow them to rattle when agi-
tated by the wind. An old bustle topped with
a halo of gilt stars and covered with the
caricatures of public men makes a most
lovely fire-screen. Of course, this refers
to the wire bustle only, but the rag-and-
sawdust-stuffed affair can be ornamented with
strips of colored silk and suspended from
a parlor chandelier.
The sire of a Tasmanian family was noted
for his digestive powers. He was accus-
tomed to visit the larder between meals, and
to convey secretly therefrom to his person
the contents of various dishes. One day a
laborer rushed up to the farmhouse and
frightened the family into fits with the news
that the boss had been thrown from liis horse
and had his brains knocked out. The entire
household fled wildly to the scene of the
catastrophe, and found the old man sitting
in the middle of the road with a sickly
smile on his face, and the remains of a
black-currant pudding trickling slowly, from
his hair. He had planted the delicacy in his
hat.
A small man, who was obviously built
to tread the paths of peace rather than to be
a champion slogger and knock-out his fellow
creatures in 750 rounds, writes a tale of
bitter woe. He was at home in bed one night,
an unprotected male five feet high, when lie
heard the front door open and a stealthy
tread like that of an elephant a-burghng
resounded on the stairs. His first impulse
was to rise and clutch the intruder by the
hair, but he suppressed this inclination and
lay still and perspired. He heard the visitor
pack up the plate
and softly hump it
outside ; _he list-
ened while he re-
moved the spoons
and forks and a
silver inkstand,
and while he fell
over the sofa and
barked his shins;
and then he saw
the shadow of a
human monster
6ft. 2in. in perpen-
dicular _ dimensions
enter his bedroom
and take his watch,
and shake the coin
out of his trouser-
pockets. He saw
all this, and suc-
cessfully smothered
his inclination to
get out and fight,
and was glad to
find himself still
alive when it was
all over. A day or
two later he was
going along the
street when a
great, cool shadow-
fell upon him, and,
looking up, he saw
the burglar. He
followed close be-
hind, and when he
had trotted about
half a mile two
policemen hove in
view. “I say,”
whispered the small
citizen, excitedly;
“that’s the man
that broke into my
house.” The con-
stables gazed
thoughtfully after
him. “That him?”
queried the bigger
of the two anxious-
ly. “Yes, that’s him right enough.
Why don’t you arrest him?” The two
policemen looked at each other again,
and then surveyed the citizen. “Well,
why didn’t ye hold him until we came?”
they demanded together. “He’s gone now.”
“Why didn’t I hold him?” said the little
man with bitter irony. “D’ye think I
can clutch an earthquake and keep it there
till you come? Why didn’t I hold him?
Then what the deuce did Providence make
you for, I’d like to know?” He was arrested
at this point for obscene language or some-
thing of the kind, and his remonstrances
were smothered in the lock-up.
A “young man” announces in the morning
paper [writes Sappho Smith] that he
“wishes to communicate with young lady
with means; genuine.” Of course, it’s the
means which need to be genuine—not the
girl. She may have two wooden legs and
a wig, aggravated by artificial teeth and a
glass eye, but that isn’t of the slightest con-
sequence. Any well-regulated young man
would overlook anything like that provided
her income was well and hearty. As one
might beautifully and pathetically put it: —
“Weep not for hair of golden hue
And eye of soft and sapphire blue,”
Quoth rich mamma one day.
“Your pa and I are plain to view,
And you are ‘interesting’ too,
As flatterers would say.
But better far than golden locks
Are bonds and shares and scrip and stocks
To gain rapt love on earth;
And all the men —be who they may—
Will worship your nez retrousse,
When they know what you’re worth.”
BULLOCKY BILL AND HIS OLD RED
TEAM.
From the river sidin’, the railway town,
Or the dull new port that is three days down,
For’ard an’ back on the uphill track,
With a creak o’ the jinker an’ a ringin’
crack,
Slow as a funeral, sure as steam,
Bullocky Bill and his ole red team.
Ploughin’ around by the ti-tree scrub,
Four wheels down t’ the bloomin’ hub;
Hither and fro, with their heads all low,
Baldy, an’ Splodger, an’ Banker go.
Men in the ranges much esteem
Bullocky Bill an’ his ole red team.
Wormin’ about where the tall trees spring,
Surging ahead when the clay bogs cling;
A rattle of lash an’ of language rash
On the narrer edge of immortal smash.
He’d thread a bead or walk a beam,
Bullocky Bill with his ole red team.
Climbin’ a ridge where the red stars ride,
Straddlin’ down on the other side,
With a whistle an’ grind, an’ a scramble
blind,
And a thunderin’ gum-tree slung behind.
But they always get there, hill or stream,
Bullocky Bill an’ his ole red team.
Engines ’r stamps fer the mines about,
Tools fer the men who’re leadin’ out;
Tucker, and booze, an’ the latest news
Back -where the bunyip stirs the ooze.
Pioneers with the best we deem
Bullocky Bill and his ole red team.
EDWARD DYSON.


From Such Small Seed.
ALYS BROWN
TELLS ANOTHER S TRANGE STORY OF PURI-PURI IN
NEW GUINEA.
There was a shrill squealing neigh of
pain and anger, a dull crack like the
breaking of a thick earthen bowl, fol-
lowed by the clatter of hoofs and a frightened
yell from a dozen throats.
“One o’ them dam’ boys grabbing horse-
hair again an’ Kitty’s biffed him,” flashed
through Jonas Gaytliorn’s mind as he sprang
to his feet and dashed out.
With agility surprising in so heavy a man,
he cleared the rough steps and ran round to
the back of the bungalow. As he whirled
the corner, a number of plantation laborers,
crowding round the prostrate form of one of
their fellows, scattered and ran, and a
trembling mare, tethered beneath the house,
rolled great frightened eyes at him, sidling
about and stamping her feet nervously on
the hard-packed coral.
Gaytliorn sprang to her head. “Whoa,
lass! Steady now,” he soothed, grasping the
bridle and stroking her quivering neck.
“What have they been doing to you?”
He gentled her to quietude before step-
ping over to the silent form lying just
beyond her heels.
“Now then, lad ! Up you get! You’re
more frightened than hurt. Come on now.
No gammon,” he said gruffly, though, remem-
bering that awful crack, he knew his words
were falling on deaf ears; knew he was
bluffing to steady his nerves and reassure the
boys, who had returned and were hovering
in a scared group watching him intently.
Stooping, he grasped the boy’s shoulder
and turned him over. In a way he had been
prepared for something, but not the dreadful
thing which met his eyes; Kitty’s iron-shod
hoof had smashed the brown face to a gro-
tesque gargoyle—a crimson travesty of a
human visage—from which Gaythorn recoiled
with sick horror.
“He dead, Boss? Dead finish?” queried a
crop-haired Goaribari who had ventured near.
The planter pulled himself together, re-
pressing his nausea. “Must keep a stiff
upper lip before the nigs.,” ran his thoughts,
and, anger being his best shield for weak-
ness, he snapped: “Too right he go finish.
H’ow many times have I told you black
cows to keep away from Kitty? Get an eye-
ful o’ that.” He pointed accusingly, first at
the long strands of chestnut hair still gripped
in the dead hand, then to the shattered face.
“Tomi-boi’s done it once too often ; now he
dead finish.”
Beckoning to the watchers, he calico,
“Here, you! Cart him down to the sick-
house and put him along blanket; an’ you,
Billy-the-cook, bung off to the village, hago-
hago: an’ tell his father.”
His traitor stomach once more giving signs
of imminent revolt as the boys, gingerly
lifting the limp body, allowed the slack head
to 101 l its hideously crushed face toward him,
lie turned abruptly away and Avent back
inside, the house. Quickly pouring himself a
stiff nip of whisky, he tossed it off neat, and
refilled the glass. With this in his hand he
stepped to the verandah to watch the slow
inarch of the bearers down the track, musing
bitterly : “Just my rotten luck ! Now there’ll
be the deuce an’ all to pay. Why in blazes
couldn’t Kitty pick on some other blighter
to bash his face? That old devil of a father
of his’ll say there’s been some hanky-panky
work an’ scare off all the locals. An’ the
coffee only half picked an’ the thatch ready
to blow off the boys’ house! If I take the
‘signed-on’ boys away from the copra,
there’ll be no cargo for Manson when he
calls. An’ all this messi because that young
saruapisi wanted to swank wdth a horsehair
bangle! If I catch one of ’em monkeying
with Kitty’s tail again, I’ll crucify him.”
However, before evening fell it was made
evident that such an extreme measure would
not be needed, for when Tomi-boi’s body had
been claimed by his father, Gabula, and
taken away by a host of noisily lamenting
relations, Billy-the-cook returned to the
house and, with much shuffling of feet and
deprecatory coughing, stood waiting to speak.
Gaythorn gathered' from his air of import-
ance that he had been chosen as spokesman
for the rest of the boys.
“Well, Billy?” he queried.
“Badili no come put Kitty along paddock.
He plenty fright,” the cook announced.
“Every boy he fright too much. Gabula he
talk Kitty got big devil.” He paused, coughed
nervously, then hurried on: “More better
you kill him, Boss.”
.Jonas glared at him for a moment in angry
amaze, then exploded.
“What? Kill Kitty! I’ll kill you if you
talk such blasted rot. Whose fault was it,
d’ye reckon? Tomi-boi got what he was
asking for, didn’t he? Fetch Badili here,
one time. I’ll give him plenty fright. I’ll
dust his black hide for him,” he roared, and
Kitty, hearing her master’s voice, whinnied
softly to remind him that she had been
neglected.
But no threat of hide dusting or even
promise of extra pay could induce either
Badili or any of the other boys to approach
within yards of Kitty. It was plain that a
tabu had been laid on the mare, and Gay-
thorn was obliged to become stableboy him-
self.
“They’ll forget it, give ’em time,” he tried
to persuade himself as he tended the mare.
“Till then, I’ll have to get a stableboy
from where there’s plenty o’ nags. Ignorant
lot o’ savages here. Never seen a horse
before. That’s why they’ve put a tabu on
you, my pretty. But there isn’t a skerrick
o’ vice in your body, is there, lass? In spite
of all folk say about chestnuts, you’re a
lamb. Anyone’d kick if their tender starn-
end was tampered with.”
To the planter’s great relief, after the
funeral cei*emonies the local labor on which
he relied for casual jobs showed no signs of
deserting him. Apart from having to attend
to the irksome grooming and feeding of Kitty
himself, everything seemed to have settled
down, so, deciding to be generous, Jonas
sent for Gabula to give him compensation
for his son’s death.
Gabula, a bony old man with a wasted
body and a dragging leg, duly appeared. The
pot-black of mourning had sweated and
rubbed off in patches, leaving his skin a
mottling of dirty brown aiid smudgy black.
His moulting wig of pandanus fibre revealed
glimpses of glistening skin stretched tightly
over the bald, skull-like pate, contrasting
with the seamed face, creased by time into
a thousand dirt-encrusted folds. His ear-
lobes had been shredded to show that, with
age, he had renounced the vanities of life,
but the shrewd black .eyes glinted keenly as
the planter explained that, though Tomi-boi's
death was the result of his own disobedience,
lie was prepared to make his father a small
present as compensation.
Stretching out a filthy hand, the old man
silently took the pound note offered and,
stewing it away in the greasy folds of his
skimpy sihi, brought out a scrap of tapa
cloth wrapped round a wisp of chestnut
horsehair. Offering this to Jonas, he said,
“I return what my son took from thy
horsi. From this small seed grew the flower
of his death. Aye, and from such small
seed shall spring the flower of thy death
also.”
lie stood for a long moment gazing bleakly
into space. Jonas, too, was silent, dazed by
the quiet words of this prophet of evil, until,
dragging his lame leg, the old man went
shuffling down the steps like a distorted
crab; when he roused suddenly.
“Hey!” he shouted, furious that his gen-
erosity should be thus requited. “What d’ye
mean? Don’t you go playing any of your
puri-puri games on me, you ungrateful old
swine. If you’re going to bear ill-will, you
can give me that note back. D’ye hear?”
Gabula turned and blinked at the irate
man.
“I hear, Master. I am no maker of evil,
nor bear ill-will. In return for the pound
note thou hast given me, I tell thee what
I know. A little of the hair I burnt, and
in the smoke I saw T .... that the red horsi will
be the death of thee.”
“So that’s your game, is it?” sneered
Jonas. “Want to scare me into killing Kitty
as a pay-back for Tomi-boi. You’ve got a
hope!”
The old man lifted liis hand as if in pro-
test, then dropped it with a gesture of utter
finality.
“Will slaying the body destroy the spirit?
Who can avert the will of the gods?” he
asked sombrely, and hobbled off without
awaiting answer.
The seed had been sown.
During the morning inspection, when
Kitty shied at the fall of a cocoanut from a
near-by palm, Gabula’s prophecy leapt in-
stantly to Jonas’s mind, but he as promptly
called himself a fool. Hadn’t Kitty done
that same thing a hundred times before?
Ii was just a bad little habit that he had
never worried about; in fact, had hardly
noticed. Still, he could not help feeling he
was a heavy chap to risk a fall. Being
s’ammed against a tree would be no joke
either, for he wasn’t so spry as he used to be.
It was the first time Jonas Gaytliorn
had thought of falling from a horse, and he
cursed Gabula and gave himself a wagging
for being an impressionable mug.
His mental unrest, however, seemed to
infect the mare; so, trying to convince him-
self that a walk would do him good, he led
her for the rest of the way and turned her
into the paddock, arguing, ’O’ course I
don’t believe that old bird, but I’ll give you
a spell, lass, an’ pad the hoof to get my
fat down a bit.”
After his lonely supper, Jonas pondered
deeply over Gabu'la’s prophecy. “That red
horsi will be the death of thee —I but tell
thee what I know.” If the old man didn't
want him to get rid of the mare, wdiat did he
want? Pretty sickening, whatever his inten-
tion.. Yet he hadn’t sounded a bit vindictive;
said it as if he was giving a pal a straight
tip in exchange for the quid. The village
folk all swore he could forecast events. Oh
rot! Sheer superstition ; must be ! But the
old chap played up to it. That time he’d
been run in for prophesying the death of a
neighbor, he’d protested he was no sorcerer,
but a babilau tauna, and his foresight was a
gift from the gods over which he had no con-
trol ; and as the man had been killed by
a falling tree in the bush whilst Gabula was
in the village, the beak had to let him off.
Wily old devil! He’d fluked one or two and
made a reputation. Well, this time he’d come
a thud! Damned cheek, prophesying about
white men. Might be all right for niggers,
but white men! Ball! Couldn’t be anything
in it. Anyway, no good chewing the rag
over it.
And Jonas, smiling wryly, had another
drink and went to bed. . . .but not to sleep.
Billy-the-cook’s curry had given him indi-
gestion ; the new stock of whisky wasn’t up
to standard; he felt as if a dose of fever
was coming on; and there was that con-
founded “coffin bird,” which had taken up
its quarters in the big fig-tree near the house,
for ever driving nails. Damn that bird!
Damn Gabula!
Next morning, as soon as he had detailed
the labor, Jonas sat down to write to Man-
soft to bring a new stableboy on his next
trip. Should he tell him to warn the lad
about the tabu, or should he leave him to
find out? Perhaps he’d better w r ait and
give a hint himself. That bit of horsehair
was going to cost a pretty penny, what with
recruiting fees and fares and what not.
“From such small seed!” He could not
dismiss it from his mind. That old hum-
bug had taken away all his pleasure in
Kitty. A thought thrust itself into his
weary brain. Cheaper to sell the mare!
The seed had germinated.
Pretty rough on the poor lass; but,
honestly, he’d have no peace with all the
boys fighting shy of her. What a difference
when he’d first brought her to the planta-
tion ! They’d nearly mobbed her then. Came
from miles away to see her; thought she
was some new kind of pig, and some even
wanted to bargain for one from her next
litter. She’d let anyone do anything with
her then. She’d been a lamb until some fool
had started the fashion for horsehair arm-
lets. Just dam’ laziness; used Kitty’s
combings to save the trouble of going to the
bush to look for that black fern-rib to weave
their oanas, and when the supply of comb-
ings had fallen short of the demand some
bright spark had started yanking it from
her tail. Now they wanted him to kill the
poor beggar! He’d see ’em in Hell first!
He’d ask Manson to take her, to trade in
somewhere along the coast.
After chewing the end of his pen for some
time, Jonas threw it down irritably, and,
looking distastefully at his breakfast, had
a little nip instead, mentally deciding that
lie must cut ’em out; been necking too many
“little Jarvies” since the upset. Still, even
a tropic teetotaller might be excused after
that rotten night. Anyhow, he’d write to
Manson, though even if he could sell the
mare it would be a few weeks before lie
could get her oil' the place, and anything
could happen in that time.... “That red
liorsi will be the death of thee.”
Staring through the open door, his eye was
caught by a splash of crimson betel-juice
spat by some passing native on the white
coral path. Common enough sight on the
plantation, but Jonas thought it looked like
a gout of blood, and shuddered, breaking
into a cold sweat as his distorted vision
magnified the splash into a semblance of
the shattered red face of Tomi-boi. Even
as he stared, fascinated, the features of the
native melted into his own and then van-
ished, leaving but a crimson blot on the
white path.
The plant was growing.
Jonas drew his hand across his aching
eyes. “That’s fever,” lie muttered through
chattering teeth, “nothing but fever” ; and,
taking up the ever-handy quinine bottle,
he swallowed a couple of tabloids, washing
them down with another drink of whisky.
“Queer what ghastly tricks it plays with one’s
brain. As if Kitty would ever lash out at
me ! Dam’ foolishness.”
Finishing his letter to Manson, offering to
sell the mare, he went out to feed and water
her, petting her as usual and forcing himself
to go behind her and slap her on the rump.
Yet, as he slid home the sliprails on leav-
ing the paddock, a wave of relief surged
over him and he felt as one who has escaped
some imminent danger.
As twilight fell, the ululu began to sound
its dolorous message from the fig-tree, driv-
ing nail after nail into an empty coffin with
gloomy precision. Feeling that lie could
endure the mournful sound no longer, as
dusk passed to darkness Jonas crept out,
shot-gun in hand, and slunk beneath the
wide-spreading lieavy-leaved branches, cran-
ing to “moon” the tormenting owl; but it
remained invisible, though its elusive Plonk!
Plonk! Plonk! Plonk! mocked his fut ile
efforts at intervals from above. At length he
returned to the house, deciding to have a
stiff, hot drink and go to bed to sweat the
fever out of his bones.
As he neared the door, a bat, hotly pur-
sued by Billy-the-cook, flew out and clung
to his shirt,; palpitating with fright.
“Kill him ! Kill him!” panted the boy,
waving a flapping cloth. “A flying mouse
brings death to the house.”
“Don’t be a fool,” grunted his master,
disengaging the clinging claws and tossing
the small beast into the night. “Go and
fetch me some hot water and a sipora .”
Billy cast a meaning glance at the gun.
“Close up you shoot Kitty.” he inquired
hopefully. “More better you do him quick-
time, Boss, before he kill you. Gabula he
talk”... .
“Get out, you black saruapisi, before I
shoot you,” shouted the badgered Jonas.
“What the hell do I care what Gabula says?
Get what I want, hago-hatjo, an’ keep your
trap shut.”
Bringing in the hot water and some lime
fruit, Billy bade his master a sulky good-
night, and soon Jonas heard his bare feet
shuffling down the track, his unmelodious
voice raised in a doleful hymn to scare
night-prowling vata-vatas from his path.
“Shoot Kitty !”
It was as if the boy’s words had un-
masked an intention which had been lying
dormant in his mind all day.
The plant was budding.
“Shoot Kitty!” After all, it was the
easiest way. Save a lot of trouble; money,
too! He couldn’t really afford to “sign on”
another boy, with copra down to fourteen
quid. Better get rid of the poor lass alto-
gether. Though it did seem like knuckling
under to that swine Gabula. It would be a ,
feather in his cap. At that Gaythorn’s *
pride revolted. Shoot Kitty, who’d never
harmed him ’ His pretty Kitty, with her
soft brown eyes and velvety nose. Be
damned to them! He couldn’t do it! He
wouldn’t do it! What a weak fool he was
to get the wind up at a nigger’s say-so, who
:probably hoped to rook him of another quid
or two! He’d send for the old rip in the
morning and offer him a bit more to take
the tabu off Kitty. Wouldn’t mention the
prophecy, of course! That would be giving
the game away. It would be paying black-
mail, but another qiud would likely do the
trick.
Satisfied with this decision, he lay down
on his bed and settled himself for sleep.
But above the singing in his ears, as the
quinine took effect, came the hollow tap-
tapping of the “coffin bird” and Gabula’s
quiet voice asking, “Who can avert the
will of the gods?”
All night long, as a rising tide of malaria
flooded his veins with its poison, sapping his
courage, he fought against his fears, and in
those dark hours Jonas Gaythorn died a
thousand deaths. An hour before dawn,
fever-racked and half-demented, he rose from
his stretcher and, snatching up the shot-
gun, staggered down the path to the paddock.
The bud was blowing.
Hearing his coming, Kitty came to the
sliprails. She gave a soft nicker of wel-
come ere the ball of shot reached her brain.
At the sound of her heavy fall, Jonas turned
and shambled wearily back to the house,
flung himself on his bed and. covering his
head with the blanket, gave himself up to
a passion of grief—grief which resolved into
a delirium of fevered nightmares and attacks
of nausea, lasting through endless nights
and days.
When at last he was able to sit up and
listen to his boss-boy’s report: “Everything
®ll right, Taubada. Boy he work
good Jonas interrupted! demanding
harshly, “Did you bury Kitty?”
Badili shuffled his big feet and grinned
nervously.
“We no bury him, Taubada. You sick,
ion no talk. Close up Kitty he finish.
More better we wait; behind, you come
look-see.”
Jonas lay back weakly and closed his
eyes. After all, another day or two did
not matter;, but it was a week before he
was able to walk down to view the remnants
of sun-dried hide and bleaching bones that
once was Kitty. A sorry remnant, for what
the sun and rain and scavenging insects
had left had been torn to fragments by
marauding village dogs and scattered round
the paddock.
Jonas frowned at the sight. “Bake ’em all
together an’ pull down the shed an’ fence,
an’ burn the lot,” he ordered.
Death having apparently lifted the tabu,
the pitiful remains were soon gathered and
hidden beneath a great heap of wood and
thatch. Jonas applied a match and, as the
names licked up, turned to his gang, snap-
ping his fingers scornfully. “What d’ye
think o’ your smart puri-puri man now?
I’ve done him in the eye this time,” he
gibed. “Said Kitty would be my death,
didn’t he? I’d like to chuck the old hum-
bug on the bonfire, too.”
Staring at the devouring flames, he mut-
tered, “Wbuldn’t ha’ done it, Kitty, my lass,
it it hadn't been for that dose o’ fever mak-
ing me so crook. Takes the guts out of a
man an’ makes him do things lie’s sorry for.
Ah well, it’s done now. But if it don’t
ruin old Gabula’s rep. as a death-croaker,
I’m a Dutchman.”
With one last wistful look at Kitty’s
funeral pyre, Jonas turned to go, but his
foot caught against something hidden in
the tangle of kura-kura grass. Stooping, he
picked up a bone —a long white rib —scarred
and splintered by the teeth of some famished
cur. “Hello, here’s a bit you missed, Badili,”
he exclaimed, and tossed it into the heart
of the flames. “Gosh, that end’s sharp!
It’s scratched my arm,” he complained,
glancing ruefully at a small jagged tear in
the skin of his forearm.
Staunching the dripping blood with his
handkerchief, he called, “When the fire’s out,
Badili, mattock out all this grass an’ we’ll
make a nut. nursery here,” and strolled back
to the house, feeling more light-hearted and
carefree than he had done for many a day.
Whilst Billy-the-eook was preparing supper
that night, Jonas called to him: “Bring me
some hot water, lad, to bathe this arm o’
mine. This scratch is uncommon painful.
It doesn’t look too good. I must lia’ got
some poison in it from that bone.”
Plonk ! Plonk! Plonk! Plonk! thudded the
ululu in the fig-tree; then, driving one last
nail in the empty coffin, it flew back to the
jungle from whence it came.
# * * *
A few days later, when Manson dropped
off the Tui for a yarn with his old friend
Gaythorn, he w r as met by an agitated cook-
boy who whimpered, “Oh Missa Manson,
you come quick-time along my boss. Close
up he die. I think Kitty been kill him.”
Which was true; for when Manson looked
down on the rigid form and tetanus-distorted
face of his friend, he found that Jonas Gay-
thorn was dead.
The flower of death had bloomed. Who
can avert the will of the gods?
Epitaph.
Say not I that am dust
To dust return:
Lo, on my brow the flames
Of eternity burn.
Say not my passionate tongue
Is stilled as I lie;
Nay, for they hear my song
At the ends of the sky!
Say not, clod that I am,
I return to the clod.
Behold, there is built in me
The city of God.
VICTORIA.
ENID CAMERON.
In the Morning.
If the high gods walk down through the
listening trees
Some morning of dew
Before the first lift and lilt of the breeze,
When the cool light on the mountain’s knees
Is yellow and new,
When the birds fluttering cry “Please, please,
please!”
If they look upon you
What will the high gods do?
Wondering and ill at ease,
The grasses through
Will they walk whisperingly in twos and
threes,
Speaking the old riddles that twist and tease
In words solemn and few?
Or will they say wonderingly “Who are
these?”
Looking upon us two.
Ah, what will the high gods do?
Will they spill rivers of light between the
trees
And the sapphire blue
Of a young heart’s desire of great seas,
Cloaking with sparkles of light the waking
breeze
Over all we view,
Till desire cry with the birds “Please, please,
please” ?
Ah, if they look upon you,
What will the high gods do?
Nay, but covered in light, in twos and threes,
In the last of the dew,
They will fall white and rapt on their wor-
shipful knees.
And as sudden birds that a wanton finger
frees
Prom a cage they knew,
Their words will sweep to the silver energies
Of song made true.
This will the high gods do!
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.


COOL
I*l
m
m
%
S
%
t?
2N
r
I
Sts
wir
A
4
1
0
f A
Every Evening...
there is no better aid to
relaxation than a glass of
that true lager—Tooth’s
K B—rich in the vitamins
that come from pure malt
and freshly picked hops.
Try a bottle to-night.
JK/5
TOOTH’S
LAGER


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & 00., LTD., Brisbane
Victdtia: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia : ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
"THE AGE”
, Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish, to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain ip the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.;
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, CL
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office; 47 Fleet Street.
Dbe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social anti
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direet
to——
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed' pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: P. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Cbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE AD VE HTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
“The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without ’ it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE SAVING HABIT
‘HOUGH your progress in saving may at
first seem slow —persevere! Make every
effort to continue your regular deposits.
As your Bank balance grows, you will be en-
couraged to greater efforts—your saving habit
will be strengthened.
The money you save will free your mind from
money-worries and become a stepping stone to
opportunity.
Open a Savings Account and save regularly.
Government Savings Bank
of N.S.W.
192 Branches. 648 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
FOR 89 YEARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS, MR. M. S. ALLAN,
Pty., Ltd., 426 National Bank Chambers,
73-75 Paterson Street, 271 Collins Street,
LAUNCESTON. MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Thousands subscribe to Australia’s Great
Weekly Newspaper
frj&uUefa
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered
“The Bulletin” to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, C.P.0., Sydney .
Please forward The BULLETIN for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
e
vVP
&
, s e
* / 5®
It? I :*''-
#•
#*•
0°
,v'°! i v
r ..••••
. ’ ,A ,v,o*
• ofV 0 <


II . . C 7Ae.
WARATAH
FENCE
HINGED dOINlil
The “Hinged Joint”
and the “Tension
Curve” are two special
features of the
Waratah Fene
In the event
the wires be-
ing distorted
by a beast
or other
cause, immedi-
ately the strain
is removed the
“Hinged Joint” allows
the fence to revert to its
original position. Th e
Waratah “Tension Curve”
gives the fence greater
resilience, and prevents
the. possibility of the
line wires fracturing
during - frost.
TENSION
CURVE
7
\V
f
\V
/
V'
s'
\V
r
v'
\
tf
r
\V
V
\
Vv*
r
%y
r
r
\V
s>
s'
/
f*
\
\ v
“B.H.P”
Newcastle Steel
is used exclusively
in the “Waratah”
Fence, making it less
costly to buy and erect
than single wires and droppers.
CAN YOU AFFORD TO IGNORE
THIS SAVING?
Many farmers have the idea that it costs more to erect
an all-metal fence than an ordinary wire-and-dropper
fence. This is not the case,, It is definitely cheaper to erect
a Waratah Fence, “Hinged Joint.'"
In addition to the saving in first cost, the Waratah Fence,
“Hinged Joint,” offers you these other advantages:—
1 — It is fireproof
2 It is stockproof
3 It is weatherproof
4 -It will last a lifetime
5 The improved appearance will add to the
value of your property and will more than compensate
ately suggests efficiency, safety and progress.
for the first cost. It immedi-
WRm H
THE “WARATAH” FENCE, with the “Hinged Joint,” is made in three types: Special Heavy
Fence—Tyeasy High Tensile Fence—Standard Fence.
Waratah 5-line Sheep Fence, "Hinged joint": 5 lines-26in. high-pickets 12m! apart-Line wire spacing*, 8,7, 6, 5 inches.
Three types. Packed in 5-chain rolls. • oa 7 A
Waratah 6-line Sheep Fence, ‘‘Hinged Joint”; 6 lines—36in. high—pickets 12in. apart—Line wire spacings, 9,8, 7, .
6 inches. Three types. Packed in 5-chain rolls.
Prices on application.
Special Fences are also available for Cattle, Lambs and Pigs. All are fully described and illustrated
in the Waratah Fence Booklet. Write in for your copy.
Stocked by Leading Merchants and Distributors throughout Australia,
Made in Australia from B.H.P. Newcastle Steel.
x
MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.)
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
a/r , a i_ n the following fencing materials: “Waratah” Wire Netting, “Waratah” Barbed Wire, and the famous
Makers also of the rouo g » Waratah” B.H.P. Star Steel Posts.
THe
