

THERE! PLEASURE
IN DRINKING
mmm
mßmemWßm
mm
*? V***
••-*%., j?
rm
»' ' •;.
mz
i mi I
M*k
m
- '"•'‘#iT» "J>
. -
ST'S
-
>Ps««
SPiy
| ■✓;■
® i
••• .
-v; •.;'
V •• x ‘ •
•:, ■ -
$Sf
0
fit
,8*
MMaHMttag
S' . *-* > <»*>
■nHw
...
I @1
.
sli
I&gg
n
The Bulletin
- CthiAflsZtfifa' &MaSL vfwdjc w\. std>.
J
Vol 52.—N0. 2693.
Wednesday, September 23, 1931.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Price 6d.


p\UK New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement, System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 331 ..."
I.YSAGHH7
O
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
KNOWN FOR ITS REMARKABLE EFFICACY IN ALL
AFFECTIONS OF THE THROAT CHEST AND LUNGS
Hudson's
Splw
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes carry the
endorsement of the medical profession,
and the confidence of the public through-
out the world. For over 40 years there has
been nothing better for all affections of the
throat, chest and lungs.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854•
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward —pushing ideas
and using; every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the'State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued".
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl>
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
AUSTRALIAN A
H. A. EVANS & SON
are now showing two fine Collections* comprising
over 500 items. A complete Catalogue will be
sent on application. Here are a few gems;—
-WEET—Flora Australasica, £lO.
BULLER —Birds .of New Zealand, 2 vols., 1888
edition, fine.
CAMPBELL—Nests and Eggs of Australian
Birds, £5/10/-
COOK —Hawksworth, 1773 edition, 3 vols.
BARRINGTON—SeveraI early vols.
LA PEROUSE—3 vols. and Atlas
SPENCER and GlLLEN—Native Tribe* of Central
Australia, fine, £5/5/-
Also works by Tench, Anson, Hunter, Sturt,
Mitchell, Eyre, Grey, West, Rusden, Strzeleeki,
Tasman (reprint)", Collins, Tuckey, Giles, Leich-
hardt, Grant, Flinders, etc.
Collectors are also invited to write for details
of our First Editions of Dickens , Kipling and
others, and special editions of Old Works. Let
us know what Books you are searching for, and
we will quote lowest prices.
A FEW BARGAINS!
THE STORY OF AUSTRALIA—6 handsome vols.,
published at £2O, for 50/-
THE WINDSOR SHAKESPEARE—2O vols., as
new, cost £lO, for £5.
BREASTED—Ancient Records of Egypt, 5 vols.,
new, for 84/-
H. A. EVANS & SON,
358 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
Solving the Seeds of Better Business
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Ok Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative :
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castiereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET,. HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House-
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The British War-book
A forbidding heading; but don’t let that
stop you from reading on. No, I haven’t
taken any fresh tickets on myself; but I
do want others to know Wilfred Saint-
Mande’s War, Wine and Women (Cassell;
Dymocks; 12s. 6d.); if this wins that book
a few more readers, the "merit or demerit of
this as a review will not matter. It is not
mock modesty which makes me say knock
off here and get to work on the book—a
book that, makes a critic, or one critic at any
rate, appreciate how futile in the long run
is the average sort of twaddle that is written
about books.
Kinds of Criticism
Laudatory criticism, I find, usually makes
the dullest sort of reading. It is nearly
always only the pontifical, damnatory sort
that bears much reading for its own sake. I
know an Australian critic who, to keep up
a reputation for that sort of thing, has not
been above writing a column or so of snarl
over a cheap cookery-book. It is the easiest
thing in the world to do, and a good many
are taken in by it. They prefer caustic to
criticism. Fault can be found in any book.
But The popular idea of the friendly critic
is that he is merely pusillanimous. Most
critics are swayed by that popular idea, and,
however theydike a book, usually go on a
fault-crusade so that they can make a show
of being “balanced.” Certainly they read
better for it, but though temporarily they
sound like artists, in the long run they must
know they have written so much precious
rubbish and are mere hacks. Slating what
is importantly bad is another matter. The
truly pusillanimous critic is the fellow who
lets the importantly bad off with a gentle pat.
He is, too, the fellow who goes fault-hunting
in what is good, and his name is legion in
review columns. Faced with a book like
this one of Saint-Mande’s he will complain
that it is too long, or fault the author on
such points as his saying of the game called
housie that the odds are “overwhelmingly
in - favor of the man running the game,”
whereas whenever I played this game it
was run as a pool, the man running it tak-
ing a percentage. Saint-Mande likens it
to crown and anchor, in which the odds are
as he says. There are other like “technical”
points on which the critics with some
war, or soldiering, experience are sure to
swoop. There is this on their side, that if a
writer can be faulted on matters of general
experience, he might well be doubted on
matters of his own. The temptation to make
a' critical point, however, seems so strong
that few go on to admit, or admit that
they don’t know, how general is most of
the experience which such a writer as this
sets down.
War Knowledge
But perhaps there is little to fear in this
respect; by now those who do not know
from personal experience have seen enough
testimony on the point to realise that fight-
ing is the brutish business which Saint-
Mande says it is. I remember that just
after the war a Sydney weekly—not this
one—declared that Field Punishment No. 1
was never practised in the, A.I.F. I wrote
pointing out that it had been, and where;
stating that within my own experience Aus-
tralians had been tied to gun wheels at
Mena and Mex. spreadeagled on the ground
at Lemnos, and tied to the barbed-wire
enclosure of the clink at Etaples. The para-
graph probably had good company in that
office’s basket. But that the war was not a
parlor game has sunk in since then, so this
side of Saint-Mande’s book should be safe
enough.
Morality Criticism
y There is another sort of criticism—not so
nitwit as it sounds—which it will not
escape; that is the moral-shocked variety.
The reason I say that this is not so nitwit
as it sounds is that all reviewers write for
papers, and so learn to form an idea of
audience. Each comes to know, if he has
an ounce of journalistic nous, that he speaks
to a definite public, and that a book that
can be praised without qualifications in one
paper will call for many in another. This
accounts for quite as many of the differ-
ences in reviews of good books as does
varied ability. The writer who tears his
hair out at the spectacle of contradictory
reviews should consider the contradictory
nature of newspapers. I take it into my own
hand to believe The Bulletin is. a paper
in which a good book can be praised with-
out having to consider whether it could be
read in a Sunday-school, but I should say
he would be a fool
who took that into
his hand on any
paper. Having
taken it into my
own hand here, I
call this War, Wine
and Women the British war-book. It might
be called the English war-book, but its writer
is of French descent, and I cannot pin him
down definitely as an Englishman. Any-
way, it presents the war from the British
side of the line, and more and
more compellingly than any other book I
have read. It is a narrative in the first
person, of a man of unusually long front-
line experience, many wounds and several
decorations. Saint-Mande himself is' the
narrator, and though I know at least a
little of the ways of creative effort, I can
see no reason for thinking he did not
experience the lot of it. It is horrible, of
course; it could not be otherwise and be>
true.
Portrait of a Private
From a strictly literary point of view the
book is interesting in proving how such an
apparently mannered style -as Smollett’s
may be taken over by a modern writer
pretty well intact 5 and yet used without
suggesting parody or plagiarism. It may
be only the similarity of style that does it,
but I think there is an even closer link than
that between Saint-Mande and Rory Ram
dom. It is not a matter of physique, for
S|iint-Mande, before Frit? had done with
him, must have been superbly built ; a lusty
fellow, ready at any time for a fight. The
likeness is in their deadpess—ethat is the
best word I can think of—towards environ-
ment. Come into the stream, they go with
it. Saint-Mande is a man of more real
courage than any other I have seen cast
on to paper by this war. He went back to
it again and again, voluntarily, as many an-
other did, when the alternative was being
bossed by conscripts, or some other such
reason which to many who read this book
will seem quite reasonless, but was not. The
difference between Saint-Mande and nearly
all the other war-book writers is that he
felt that comradeship—this, like the word
“brotherhood,” has been sanoed of meaninv
by later-day windbags.—which existed among
private soldiers, though it has failed to
exist among the some men since the war.
and is past the understanding of those poor
mutts who nowadays draw salaries —chiefly
paid by Labor, I am sorry to say—for mak-
ing the returned soldier a mockery.
It is the job of a reviewer, I believe, to
present a picture of the book. Difficult,
that, of a book which wades through a vast
amount of war, wine and women; and this
one sentence may not help very much: —
A little chap named Smith came in, and as soon
as he was blind drunk we cut off his moustache,
which was of the variety known as walrus, and
stuffed it in his pocket, in case he would like tr
keep it.
But I cannot recall any other sentence
which so conveys the manner and spirit of
the book. I suppose I can be allowed to
carp at the catch-penny cheapness of the
title, since I do so comparatively. Though
after all. what else was it—to the private
soldier?
RED PAGE.
Judge and Dreamer
Henry Bournes Higgins was one of the
most remarkable men who ever sat on an
Australian bench. Irish, yet with little
humor; dourly immovable in the matter
of his opinions, which were rarely those of
his associates, yet' a charming companion;
clear-headed, the possessor of a piercing
eye for a fallacy, yet a sentimentalist; a
classicist with a wonderful memory for the
best in poetry and prose; a fine lawyer; a
passionate patriot and social idealist—so
Higgins appeared to the Bar and his col-
leagues of the High Court. Nettie Palmer,
his kinswoman, sets out in Henry Bournes
Higgins, a Memoir of a Great Australian
Judge (Harrap; 17s. 6d. net), to interpret
this unusual being in the light of his public
.career for the benefit of those who hadn’t
the privilege of knowing him.
John Higgins, who was a Wesleyan min-
ister on the Wexford circuit, sent his wife,
two daughters and three sons, of whom
Henry Bournes was one, to Melbourne in
1870. He arranged to follow later with the
other son. There is an interesting picture
of Melbourne as it was when young Hig-
gins saw it first: —
A few years after the gold rush of the ’fifties,
amid tcmporiiry huts and' not far from regions of
tents known as Town, the aspiring citizens
had solidly reared Parliament House, the Town Hall,
the University and various Government buildings,
laying out the city in modern rectangular fashion.
This “Marvellous Melbourne” had not developed all
over evenly, but the framework was there. Parlia-
ment House, standing as it still does on the Eastern
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Always at Anthony Horderns’.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Anthony Horderns'
Anthony
Horderns’
Mark Foy’s
Snow’s
Stonewall Jackson
R. H. Gordon
The Hub
Fay’s
Edward Arnold
Shop at -JU peoples Shopping c
/WAV
mm
KV.i
fm
m
mm,
m
THRIFT • ECONOMY-VALUE
MYSTERY
Competition
£3OO
In Prizes.
Conditions and
particulars of this
Competition are
available FREE at
all the Eight
Stores in Block 1 4.
Do not forget to
ask for clues when
receiving your
docket. Country
clients are advised
to write to Box
2607EE, G.P.0.,
for details.
Cool Comforts for the Hottest Days
Anthony Horderns’ CHILCOTT Refrigerators
lift out ice chamber
-LEAVES INTERIOR CLEAR
FOR CLEANING. ICECAN BE
CARRIED TO CHEST IN CHAMBER.
DOWN PIPE IS SOLID
BRASS. NICKELLED TO
PREVENT CORROSION.
One-piece seamless
PORCELAIN FOODCHAMBER,
WITH ROUNDED CORNERS.
iIYGIENIC-EASY TO CLEAN.
cv\\.co^
fc—
ir
i
Back is solid wood, not
TONGUE D & GROOVED BOARDS.
Sides are 2" deeper than
ORDINARY CHESTS.
ACCOMMODATING ANY
SIZE ICE BLOCKS
Insulation packed with
DOE HAIR —PROVED BEST BY
EXPERIMENT. DOES NOT
DETERIORATE. STAYS IN ITS PLACE.
Handle drops and
AUTOMATICALLY LOCKS
ON CLOSING DOOR.
The “Chilcott” Refrigerator, obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’, is made in our Redfern factories
finished in a medium golden shade.
No. 5 1 Width. Height.
Overall sizes 23in. 41 in.
Provision Chamber 18 18
Depth.
1 Bin.
134
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price, £5/15/
With Porcelain Provision Chamber, £7/15/
£5/15/-
from £4/17/6 to £33/10/-
Other sizes
Trafalgar” Cold Safe
From
£5/10/-
The famous Australian
Cold Safe. The Tra-
falgar.” It is portable
and is despatched,
cased, free of charge,
and is easily assembled.
Is made in 5 sizes, the
framework, water tank,
catch tray and legs are
of galvanised metal.
j ■ LJLi
COIDSAFE I
"VflKßltirWßlt
Has galvanised gauze panels in 4 sides and specially
woven cotton open-mesh panels also on 4 sides. Size
No. 3, fitted with one steel shelf, measures 26in. x 23in.
x 1 Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price, £5/10/-
Other sizes from £3/17/6 to £7/15/-
( Furniture, *Ground Floor , Pitt Street, level.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
Settee Hammock £lO/15/-
a
r'SvS
The De Luxe Hammock for outdoor or verandah use.
This Hammock has diamond-mesh spring mattress,
also overlay mattress and valance covered with strong
striped, multi-colored ticking. The back, ends and
canopy are of the same material.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price £lO/15/-
X
< AH&S
Canvas Dray Bags 116
Best quality Canvas Dray Bags.
Sizes, ins., 10 12 14 15 16 18
Anthony Horderns Conversion
Prices — 1/6 1/S 1/10 2/- 2/2 2/4
&;
Canvas
Verandah
Bags
4/6
Canvas Verandah Bag,
complete with tap.
Sizes, ins., 8 10 12
An t h ony Horderns’
Conversion Price —
4/6 5/6 6/-
(Household Ironmongery, Ground Floor,
Pitt Street. Free Delivery City ana
Suburbs only.)
Terra-cotta
Butter
Coolers
4/6
SECTION
df
Here is something that will keep
your butter fresh and cool even on
the hottest days. The Terra-cotta
Butter Coolers!
2- 4/6
3- - • • • 5/-
( Crockery, Third Floor.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
I
•Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN
SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
d


MODERN LI F E IN ITS
SWIFTEST TEMPO
Whirls through the Famed Streets
of the United States
1
■
1!
i
uh
M&k
witi
•##
y M&
m
M
II
\!A
Km
m
m
II
M
w
M*
wV'l
m
*s
1
»
c.M
e-i
s§«s
Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, is
the newest... Market Street, San Fran-
cisco, one of the most colorful. Along
Michigan Boulevard pours the wealth
of Chicago... Fifth Avenue, New York,
is the nation’s Rue de la Paix! Each a
fascinating panorama of America s
modern life!
What a foil for their ultra-modern
thrills is the journey en route! Your
Matson liner, touching at Auckland,
andglidingNorth,pausesforglimpses
of fantastic Fiji... seductive Samoa
...Hawaii in her lovely witchery!
And then, like a startling shift of
scene in a play...SanFrancisco...and
the magnificence of America!
Left...A sparrow's eye view
of Lexington Avenue Can-
yon, New York City showing
the 56-story Chaninlßuilding
The famous flyers of American rail-
ways will speed you from the Pacific
to the Atlantic in four days, or they
will take you more leisurely to every
point of interest in the land.
Their routes are selected to include
renowned scenic wonders...their
road-beds ballasted to insure calm,
silent swiftness... the coaches new,
modern and refined... Pullman sleep-
ing cars, providing full sized sections,
as well as compartments and drawing
rooms, which may be arranged ere
suite. In the dining cars, intriguing
dishes served by smiling waiters ...
Travel across America is one con-
stantly unfolding scenario of wonders.
•
Every third Saturday at 11 A.M. a
Matson liner sails from Sydney. You
will find clean, well-kept ships with
perfect accommodation, excellent
cuisine and service...large deck space
and interesting sports. The fastest,
shortest, coolest route... to London.
For complete information apply to:
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and
INFORMATION RIJREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney Tel. B-7981-3
Above —American Railways dining cars are famous for the ex-
cellence of their cuisine, courteous service and moderate charges.
WSmmmm
mmm
mmm
-X/ '
Ml
•'7>
■f&M
m
§§
m
%> ■ ■&?.
.
m %
§
•mm
w*
y '
mssm
.■■■■■. ■:
Left —The East Rim Trail in Zion
National Park offers many thrills
Here is a party peering, over a
precipice which wears the trail
across its brow like a laurel
wreath.
Above —Giant locomotives are
a feature of American Railways,
Operating over rock ballasted
road-beds, they heed great fleets
of dependable, comfortable,
economical Crains.


x \
-s..
Don't fear your age!
The joys ofYWh
Co hand in hand
with
COIOSEPTIC
Rejuvenate! Liven up! Don’t lose your hold on
life. Older men than you are brimming with
the impulses of youth living life to the full
thanks to COLOSEPTIC.
WATCH FOR THIS'
Advancing years are not to
blame for dullness, lack of
energy or loss of pep. The cause
is self-poisoning (autoxima),
the result of hidden constipa-
tion. The intestines become
encrusted with fragments of
food waste not properly evacu-
ated. This waste breeds dis-
ease germs and insidious poisons
which pollute the blood stream,
menacing your health.
Dissolve this accumulated
waste. Banish these poisons
from the body. Flush out the
system the easy way the
safe way the efficient way.
Drink COLOSEPTIC.
MAKES YOU VIGOROUS!
COLOSEPTIC assists all Nature’s
avenues for ridding the body of
impurities. It sends healthy
blood pulsating through your
veins. It brings more energy
—increased vitality. It tones
up the system, makes you vir-
ile vigorous keen in body
and mind.
HELPED THOUSANDS!
COLOSEPTIC has greatly helped
thousands of sufferers, who
write of it in terms of enthusi-
astic praise. It will benefit YOU.
Cet the Special Demonstration
Jar and prove COLOSEPTIC for
yourself. The first step to re-
newed youth is to fill in and
post the coupon below.
READ THIS LETTER OF APPRECIATION
Dear Sirs:
i cannot speak too highly of COLOSEPTIC for, after years of terrible
suffering from constipation and piles, one bottle of COLOSEPTIC did me more
good that all the doctor's medicines that I have ever taken. After taking
a course of it, I am overjoyed to be able to say that I am completely cured.
Yours faithfully,
Mrs. J. C., c/- Post Office, Bangalow, N.S.W.
The original of this and many other Testimonials can be seen at the office of
the Coloseptic Co. Ltd., 10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
CUT OUT AND MAIL TO DAY!
Regular Full-sire Jars, 5/7-J-
All Chemists and Stores
To Coloseptic Co. Ltd.,
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
I am anxious to try COLOSEFTIC. Will you
please send me a Special 1/- Demonstration jar
and your free booklet, which tells how COLO
SEPTIC renews the desires of youth. I enclose
stamps or Postal Notes to the value of 1/-.
NAME.
ADDRESS
31/a|
Hill looked down in 1870 upon an area of contra-
dictory buildings of all kinds. The Town Hall made
an oasis of solidity. (( „
There were good newspapers —the Age
had started publication—an art society,
opera at the Theatre Royal, plenty ot books
and a fairly full social life. The new arri-
vals liked it better than Ireland; in tact,
Mrs Higgins wrote, “Everything is superior
here save religion.” The complete absence
of anti-Cathohe feeling in the future Judge
and his Irish Nationalist sympathies, which
used to surprise many in view of his parent-
age, may be explained partly by the fact
that the Higgins family was Catholic til
the end of the eighteenth century, and
then Church of England and Ireland. John
was its first Wesleyan. But, tradition
apart, the keynote of Henry Bournes s
character was sympathy .for untouchables,
which was more or less what Catholics and
Nationalists were in Melbourne half a cen-
tury ago.'
He began professionally as a teacher, had
a resplendent career at the University, and
seven years after his arrival was reading
under Holroyd—later a Judge—with Deakin
as a fellow-student. His qualities were
such that he proceeded to the High Court
bench with hardly a check. He had worked
hard for Federation, but in Professor Mur-
doch’s W’ords:—
Higgins found himself compelled to oppose his
fellow-Victorians and the rest of the Convention at
so many points that he soon began to be reckoned
a mere irreconcilable.
He was no politician, as Barton was, which
is why he is best remembered as a Judge.
We know now that he advocated a lost
cause. His generous ambitions in the direc-
tion of “indefinite perfectibility” were only
capable of fulfilment in boom times. The
creation by law of an independent economic
cosmos in the Commonwealth, with all
employables in constant work at high
wages, has proved to be only a dream. But
in one respect at least he was always ahead
of his time. When he went on the Bench
Griffith, C.J., our closest analogue to Mar-
shall, was putting the case for State Rights
in one brilliant judgment after another.
Higgins deplored the “Serbonian bog” in
which the High Court had landed the
national Government, and expressed the
opinion—to be endorsed by the Full Bench
many years later; —that the Common-
wealth had power "under the Constitution
to control the instrumentalities of a State.
Twenty years ago such sentiments were
called “revolutionary,” but now most Aus-
tralians agree that it would be all to the
good if the Federal Arbitration Court were
the only one in the country.
Higgins was one of the first Australian
Nationalists, though when he became one
Nationalism wasn’t dreamt of as a party.
His name and that of Isaacs, ex-C.J., will
always be associated with the emergence
of the Commonwealth from the provincial-
ism of the days when Federal elections were
fought largely in some States on the anti-
Federal ciy. He gave more to his adopted
country than an acute and tireless intellect,
probity and a burning ardor for the changes
in which he believed. His closing years
were shadowed by the loss of a beloved and
promising son in the war.
This biography is the most fascinating
that the writer has read by a woman. It is
full of witty, feminine touches (for example,
George Reid’s political speeches “were as
brilliant and fundamentally as irresponsible
as other men’s after-dinner speeches: in-
deed. he may be said to have moved in a
world where it was always after dinner”),
and it comprises a. full and judicial sketch
of social and political developments in
Australia over the period covered. There
are a dozen illustrations and a comprehen-
sive index.
J.B.D.
September
One of our first warm days; mist upon
the water, and a destroyer going steadily
towards the Heads, as if it were pulled by
a string. Women’s voices, with the clatter
of cups and saucers, heard from adjoining
flats. Linen, suspended in gardens, creating,
by shadow effect, patterns of green on the
grass.... New pegs, new baskets....’
Architects and stockbrokers preparing their
cars for the city; every step on the asphalt
separately heard. A bulbul, behind the
leaves of a Moreton Bay fig, sends out its
repetitional cry; metamorphosed, through
alchemy of the brain, into two words) ...
“Deep literature,” “Deep literature.” Many
doves are releasing round sounds, like
bubbles, into the air. Everything is som-
nolent and warm. A man... .personification
of September passes a scythe over the
turf; he loiters under a pepper-tree; and
his arms and shoulders are momentarily
decorated by its foliage.
Incomparable Australia! How happily
situated; when we remember rain-swept
England, where (Horne Tooke has said it)
“fire, flannel and brandy” are necessary to
preserve life.
Once again; the sun feels and appraises
our bodies with fingers which amorously
burn; so that we abandon ourselves, like
children or puppies, to mutual delight.'
Then, unexpectedly, a new note comes
rocketing through the air—something too
shrill ...something opposed to. the general
symphony.
I say to my darling, my dear one, “Keep
inv tea hot. I’m going upstairs to shoot
the old gentleman who plays on the pic-
colo 1
HUGH McCRAE.
A Satchel of Books
Mary Webb, by Hilda Addison (Cecil
Palmer; ss. net). A somewhat tentative
biography and fragmentary summing up of
the work of Precious Banc's author. Ama-
teurish, but containing some new stuff.
The Sunbeams Book (Sun Newspapers).
Bancks’s capital comics from Sydney "Sunday
Sun” are the ideal small-boy gift at 2s. This,
the eighth series, leaves the imported things
of its kind standing in both humor and
drawing.
The Man at the Carlton, by Edgar Wal-
lace (liodder and Stoughton; Dymocks:
7s fid. net). F.a.q. Wallacian thriller, which
is to say five and a quarter miles ahead of
the general run of its brand of fiction. Edgar
says nothing new in it, but he says the old
things rapidly and well.
A Book of Grace (Dent; 6s. net). A col-
lection of the charming essays, with a few
of the not so important poems, of Mrs.
Ernest Ithys, who died in America in 1929.
The writer drew her inspiration out of
doors. She did not see very much or very
deeply, but she observed for herself, and had
the knack of passing her observations on in
a very natural way.
John Sommerfield's t.They Die Youny
(Heiiiemann; 7s. (id. net) has style and
beauty, but it is marred by the author’s
psychopathic craze for odd words and by bis
habit of dispensing irrelevantly with punc-
tuation marks. In brief he is a literary
posturer. The characters spend their lives
on the tiles, figuratively speaking. The hero,
Christopher, has experimental, completely
loveless affairs with various ladies in
London ; with his father’s wife in New York;
and with much less alluring females as a
sailor before the mast; subjects his soul to
close analysis wherever his vagrom impulses
lead him, and gets killed in a motor smash
after a binge. An effect, as in all these lugu-
brious works about roystering moderns, is lo
make the reader examine his inhibitions in
the nervous hope that they are all in working-
order.
A good deal of Geo. C. Foster’s Sunwards
(Chapman and Pfall; 7s. 6d net) consists of
nudity propaganda. The practitioners of the
Teuton cult pontificate in the Pharisaical
manner of conchies and similar prigs, ascrib-
ing their immunity from low desires to their
habit of attending mixed parties in the alto-
gether, and predicting shameful ends for
friends and relations who won’t join the
movement. The writing is sloppy. After
the hero nearly drives a car into his Uncle
Bill we get, “It was not the most fortuitous
of meetings with a man of whom one hoped
to borrow £5000” : the perfectly good English
word “exigent” is italicised as French, and
so on. But the story has its points, the best
of which are that it grows in merit and
interest as it proceeds, and that its young
people are human and natural —while they
keep their clothes on.
And a Little Verse
S-t-r-u-g-g-l-e.
Now here is a hiker stuck fast in a bog.
And the harder he struggles the faster he
sticks;
Not wallowing for pleasure like rhino, or
hog—
To coat himself snugly and keep off the
ticks.
But. the thick-crowding consonants hinder
and hamper.
And the mud-boltered fir’s are the feet of
the tramper.
MAOKILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
PROGRESS.
I found a playmate in a yellow field
Where summer lingered on a happy day;
And little things we said were signed and
sealed
In the great sun’s good way.
And as the dusk drew down we said, “Great
heart,
It is not wise to seek the lamps too soon;
A stream-kissed meadow holds the hills
apart
To let them see the moon.
“Let us go down across the stepping-stones
And find the brightness of the five white
trees
That talk together in their silver tones
The secrets of the breeze.”
So with one thought, twice spoken, we went
there
And found more joy than we had known
at noon. .
‘'Sweetheart,” we said, “in such a lovely air,
Why seek close walls so soon?
“The moon is sinking, but this tufted hill
Is a fair place to watch the morning rise.”
We climbed with laughter and a single will
To the soft purple skies.
And the sun rose, and it was merry time. . ..
But moon or sun or slips of yellow rain,
The world of deeds was set upon a rhyme—
We could not turn again.
The moon on meadows and the sun on hills
Wore out, to the last glimmer days and
nights;
“Brave heart,” we said, “how the great
future, spills
Its clip of golcfeii lights.”
Yet through the dawn cold voices cried,
“Beware!
There is a winter in the breast of spring;
And you will come at last to harsher air
That lias no song to sing.”
But when the stars grew bitter in the frost,
Or tempest tore the world with shouts of
pain.
We did not pause to count the little cost
Of one white summer slain.
We said, “Strong heart, there is a happier
place,
With comfort of the great, warm-bosomed
trees.
Where 1 the -kind sun may find a little grace,
Nursed on the mountain’s knees.”
At last we came into a yellow field
Where summer fondled all the quiet day;
And there the thing we dreamed was signed
and sealed
In the full heart’s good way.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stumped. A'a me
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and 110 MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.E.C. : You’ve got ideas; now give your
pen some steady practice.., .M.8.M.: Sorry, no good.
. ...H.W.A.: “Hidden Beauty” still undiscovered,
though we had hopes when we came to the place
where the lady, “like a startled deer, jumped to her
feet”; but they crashed when all you did was to
“entreat her not to be so spry”. .. .Melba M. C.: You
strive so hard for the high classical note that you’re
always getting out of tune... . K.K.: “She sang a
wild song as she passed me by.” Perhaps you read
her verses in which you repeated yourself over and
over again... .M.P.: You’ll have to either get new
“props” or make better use of the old ones before
the result will be poetry.... Key: The yarn was
invented along with frogs. .. .Alice: No new thought
or phrase.... D. 8.: The best handwriting of a
barren morning. .. .Mary R.: The hackneyed rest was
almost forgiven for the one line, “Whipping and
creaming the clover”.... Duncan: Bit too blank.
.. . .A.S.: There is some hope for you, but you’ll
■have to write more simply and dig up better plots.
.. . . J.C.J.: Off our beat. . . .Tarpon: Too many marks
of the machine on it. . . .L.M.H.: Clever in a fan-
tastic way; but the mirth seems forced. .. .J. 5.8.:
Very close up. In other days it would get a place.
... .Nicholas J.: Fat sensualist isn’t worth the space.
Use 50 per cent, fewer adjectives. .. .Warren F.:
Ingenious; drama rather overdone. You ought to
find a market for it. Sorry this one is so over-
supplied. .. .J.M.: But why should we print it?
Not 10 per cent, of our readers ever see the “S, M.
Herald”.,. .T.F.0.: Can’t afford the space. Literally,
hundreds of letters pour in every week, and we can
only pick the marrow out of those with new ideas.
....Stan B.; Called for a lighter touch... .TI.R.P.:
Return means sometimes that they aren’t fit, some-
times merely that they don’t fit... .G.A.K.: Don’t
seem natural frogs. Not like those that we can
hear croaking at every corner.... Arthur; A stall
for the old grey mare and her lament: —
I was not run on gasoline,
But they begrudged me even grass,
And used instead that infernal machine
That anything could surpass.
And now when I am old and grey,
And the country devoid of money,
They want me back —and they used to say
This land was all milk and honey.
. ...L.W.: It’s jolly bad verse; but it’s a good,
honest orgy of fulmination. The gentle art of curs-
ing has got housemaid’s knee these days.... J.V.:
No new thought; and incoherent. .. .M.M.C.:
A queer .mixture—a line like “Down the steep to
the flat beside the creek” followed by “Here with
Fides I sing my motet to the day.” Yet the clamor
can’t quite drown the music Surry: Say it in
three stanzas.... Mary W.: Tinkle, tinkle. No
thoughts wrinkle Mary’s marble brow. fP.!I. : We’ve
chanced the marble.).. . .T.1.M.: Well dine, but
more artifice than art... .E.S.S. (Vic.): Ju;t words.
. ... .K.Q. : The dreary beginning beat it.. . .M.J.11.:
You shan’t have literary hysterics here.. . F.S.F.:
Unmasking of rogue inartistically done. ... 5.M. :
ft’s a steep ascent all right—too steep for y0u....
R.D.L.: At least a hundred people clamoring to
be heard on that page; and you send a little con-
tribution which you think “might extend over two
or three issues!”.... W.P.: Not badly done, but it
smacks too much of the mortuary. .. .K.F.: You
ought to know the difference between an octoroon
and an orang-outang... .R.N.: What have we done
to be asked to read what looks like the sixth carbon
copy ?. .. .8.D.: Last time we visited a two-up joint
they didn’t play the game that way....A.U.: Don’t
object to a tear or two, but you shed a deluge....
C.D.L.F.: It cried aloud to be heaved 0ut....P.5.:
Title is the best part of it, and you got that from
Keats. ... A.J.N.: Too theological.... D.M.: Episode
scarcely worth recounting. .. .J.T.: A peevish out
burst. .. .G.T.: Missionary story obviously modelled
on one of Somerset Maugham’s. .. .M.E.M.: All written
many times. . . ..las. C.: The week’s worst. .. . K.R.8.:
A pretty good picture; would have been just the
thing 40 years ago... .C.S.D.: Same old unanswered
letter !... .R.A.G.: There’s something good in every
set; and there’s something, too, which spoils, it....
0.U.T.; Get back on to the rails. And watch your
rhymes“leaves—breeze” and “again—plains” ought
to give you an earache. ,
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.F.: Slapdash... .D.P.: Stiff drawing and pon-
derous jest... .T.E.L.: Lacks polish... .A.J.K.: He
curses like a bullocky, but they’re not bullocks he’s
driving. .. .L.J.: Drawing of girl with giraffe legs
declined.... C.W.: Cafe group badly arranged : wash-
drawing much too streaky.... S.M.: Picture of Satan
chasing Premier with a pitchfork. Where’s the joke?
. ...E.F.: That gag came in with straphanging....
C.8.T.: Jest might have had point before the war,
but who dances the tango now?... .S.N.J.: Threat
to retire from art noted with approval . . .R.G. : It
has an amazing number of anatomical defects . ...
A.W.A.: Be prepared for a long apprenticeship....
C.R.: Strive for fewer and firmer lines. ... II.11.:
Struggle to crowd the entire Australian fauna into
one drawing goes unrewarded. .. .E.8.A.: A lopsided
lot. . . ~T.C.: Old fellow in nightcap is not badly
done, but the wheeze is feeble... .M.S.: Shading is
wrongly placed... .N.J.: Don’t be so stingy with the
ink,.. .C.W.F.: Only a makeshift job—finish ’em
before sending ’em in....Y.G.: Same old drunk
making same old remarks to same old statue.


9
a.
■ m
V
r
mm
Wm
m
MB .
m
>
H%;. ; it
isiiliii
i
I_ _ ,
m \
iiiMliM
. ■ ;
Ji
I 11 i Sa
H
Hi
mwM
Hi
H*
jp*
-■ . JS
: I ■
13
~ - v !
r ' I
:T
.
w
-•• ■■■ ~,.
'
IHI
—i
■
3 N •'
■'J
0
OUT


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2693.
September 23, 1931.
CULTURE IN AUSTRALIA.
"Asked by the Press Association in New York whether the treatment of the theme of his new novel was likely to involve him in difficulties with the Australian
Customs authorities, in a similar way to 'Redheap,' Mr. Norman Lindsay replied: 'I consciously da nothing to merit censorship, but it would be impossible for me
to write a textbook on arithmetic without having the censor ban it.'"_Cable.
Tf *i P m b ?
misrepresented as a perverse gesture of hostility to
righteousness. Actually it is at the root of a philosophy
Australia^ 8 It Sn
Australia. It can take the line of certain American
unn ersities which are controlled by fundamentalists and
. like. In that case it will have to resign itself to
of 'rtf under a sort of War Precautions Act
a university in Sre'cilbert Murrav tTg
y> • ’
W ’ Graham WaUas or Bertrand Russell could find
permanent employment, and that, as a result, no work
of importance in political science has come from America
the past Australia decides >
incongruously, to put on what the Chartist’s daughter in
Meredith s poem called “a Sunday face,” and perpetuate
its inquisition of films, books and pictures with a view
to the discovery of improprieties. It may save the
T & i - nn , ocents > but ™ ust rob the People
hole of pi iceless compensations. Instead of a
crude form of prohibition, which is what all Government
censorships come to eventually Lindsay argues for
compromise Australia’s writers' and artists should be
make their To
the whole gamut of human emotions and the public
should be their budges. Shakspeare’s sonnets and P parts
of the Old Testament thev ri "fitly insist would have
been banned if England had had a censor when they
appeared. Mr. Lindsay’s drawing was made for The
Bulletin just prior to his departure for America.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 211 t George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 11J/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d, Elsewhere: sd.
THE COW AND THE
CURRENCY.
There are people who still think that what
they call managed inflation would be a good
thing for us. So the council of the N.S.W.
Taxpayers’ Association has recommended
that, on account of our great overseas debt,
we should fix the value of our £ at 12s. 6d.
To debase our currency looks so easy. The
trouble, of course, is that the other fellow
is apt to notice it.
Still this at least can be said: there is
more sense in a taxpayers’ association sup-
porting it than in a wage-earners’ union
doing so. Inflation is quite a good thing
for those who have to pay money; it is
always a bad thing for those who are owed
money. If the Government took its 10s.
notes and cut them in halves and said that
in future each half would be called a half-
sovereign, nobody would be a penny better
off if everybody charged just twice as much
for goods and services. But it is not always
possible to make a quick readjustment of
prices. Especially is it not possible to
readjust wages; with the result that it is
always the wage- and salary-earner who is
swindled by inflation.
The latest idea is that we should inflate
in order that the producer of goods for
export may get a bonus on his production.
Our £ is, through the management of the
currency, to be made worth 12s. 6d. This
means that the exporter would get the price
in, say, London plus an exchange premium
that would make £lOO there worth £l6O
here. Now, so long as the producer could
sell on the £l6O basis and buy on the £lOO
basis—so long, that is, as workers and
creditors could be swindled out of some-
thing that really belongs to them —the pro-
ducer would be on a good wicket: he could
more than compete with others in the
world’s markets. But what about his com-
petitors? Are we stupid enough to think
that they would take this without a kick?
What are we doing ourselves in connection
with Russian timber? Kicking as hard as
we can, of course, because we say that
Russia is dumping; and this simply means
that we charge Russia with doing precisely
what the “managed currency” advocates
would have Australia do! We have not
gone very far along Inflation-road, yet even
now we are finding our foreign customers
raising tariffs against us and asking pointed
questions about dumping. Australian prices
being higher than they should be because
our £ is not worth what it should be, when
we offer our goods abroad we can do so at
a lower price than we are selling for here.
That is a form of dumping; and even our
nearest neighbor, Maoriland, is guarding
against it. We are told that France and
other good foreign customers are setting up
special tariffs against our foodstuffs in retali-
ation for our general tariff. The truth is
that these tariffs on foodstuffs are for the
protection of their own producers against
dumping—against the introduction, that is,
of foodstuffs from a country which, through
a “managed currency” or otherwise, is try-
ing to get or already has got an advantage
in foreign markets.
And the kick does not come only from
the country on which the goods are dumped.
Indeed, if that country is not a producer
in the same line and is not at all idealistic,
it might be glad to get cheap goods, no
matter why they were cheap. But its
good customers might kick. Britain, for
example, might still be glad to get cheap
wheat from Australia—it certainly seemed
glad enough lately to get it from Russia.
But Canada might feel just the same about
it as Australia felt when it heard that
Britain was buying wheat from Russia at a
“managed” price. Certainly Canada would
object; and any objection from Canada has
great weight in Britain. Further, it could
enforce the objection by withdrawing many
preferences which British trade now enjoys
in Canada.
It might, however, be declared that the
Australian exporter was really gaining no
advantage: that if he got £l6O in Australian
money for goods that brought £lOO in Eng-
lish money, it was only because he had
to pay on the higher scale for everything
he bought. But if that is so, if the exporter
gets no advantage out of the inflation, why
deliberately cause it? Of course he expects
to get something out of it. And the people
who would pay would be pensioners and
others with fixed incomes, holders of Gov-
ernment stocks and private mortgages and
preference shares and debentures. And he
would probably—almost certainly—gain also
at the expense of the wage- and salary-
earner. The defence that the producer was
not gaining an advantage in the foreign
market by selling at less than he sold in the
local market would therefore fail. The
charge of dumping would stand. And retali-
ation would be certain.
There is only one even moderately honest
excuse for deliberate inflation of any sort in
Australia. This is that wages and salaries
are too high, that it is very difficult to
reduce them by direct assault, and that the
easiest way out is to inflate prices and thus
reduce wages and salaries indirectly. This
quite obviously is the hope of those who
support the Theodore plan. But it does
not matter why we do it—we have to look
to the effects. And, as we have seen, those
effects are likely to be very far-reaching.
Anyhow, why not go straight? Almost
the first thing Australia—perhaps the whole
world—needs to get back firmly into its
temporarily deranged mind is that you can’t
have more milk than the cow gives, and
that you don’t make it a drop more by
wateringi it down or otherwise juggling
with it.
CREDIT.
“Why is the Douglas Social Credit scheme never
mentioned in the papers? Is it because the promoters
attack the banks, and the banks are far too influ-
ential for the papers to offend by giving it any
support ?”— Bulletin correspondent.
The Bulletin doesn’t know why other
papers haven’t given the Douglas scheme
much notice; for its own part, the thing
has never seemed worth while. Yet it is
attracting public attention; it has a whole
literature devoted to it; three papers are
printed in its interests; and Douglas
societies have been formed in many parts
even of Australia.
The scheme is based on the so-called
discovery that “the aggregate of prices is
always greater than the aggregate of
incomes,” that in consequence there must
always under the present system be' a
large quantity of goods which there is no
money to buy, and that salvation can only
come by issuing “social credits” to purchase
these excess goods:—
The difference that exists at present between the
aggregate’ of prices and the aggregate of incomes
represents a large reserve of real credit, or power
to produce wealth, upon which the community is
debarred from drawing owing to the faults of the
financial system, but upon which it could draw
immediately if the necessary price-regulating arrange-
ments were made and the necessary financial tokens
(money) were distributed to the individuals com-
posing it.
When a firm makes an article for sale, costs
of production represent payments over a
long period, outside purchases having had to
be made of plant and materials, which were
probably produced months or years pre-
viously. “It follows therefore that the people
in the business cannot buy all they produce,
assuming that they wanted to. Receiving
an income representing the inside payments
alone, they clearly cannot pay prices made
up of both inside and outside payments.
That is true of any single business; there-
fore it is true of all businesses collectively.”
There is confusion of thought here; and
it vitiates the whole scheme. Smith has a
factory, and buys plant and material from
outside. Now, it is quite true that the
employees of Smith’s factory could not buy
all the Smith factory output, because the
price includes the value of raw material and
a contribution towards replacing plant. Also
it is true that the people employed in making
the plant and preparing the raw material
have spent their wages. But Smith is not
the only factory-owner in the world. At
the moment when Smith’s goods go on the
market, Brown’s factory is calling for
material-and plant; and the wages paid to
produce them are used to buy Smith’s
goods, just as the wages paid in the past
to produce Smith’s material and plant were
used to buy Robinson’s goods.
It has to be admitted that the demand
for plant and material is not regular; and
that is one of the defects of our system.
There are times when the demand for plant
is greater than the consumption (that is,
depreciation). That is to say, when, instead
of the aggregate of prices being higher than
the aggregate of incomes, the aggregate of
incomes is the higher, with the result that
prices boom. This happens especially when
there is tremendous borrowing. It explains
in part the cycles of trade booms and de-
pressions ; and it destroys the Douglas
theory that the aggregate of incomes is
always less than the aggregate of prices. It
explains why, in Britain, under the new tax-
ation scheme, they are making a larger
allowance for planGdepreciation in order to
encourage the remodelling and replacement
of plants, etc. In that way it is hoped to
increase incomes without increasing prices;
and such a thing is easily possible—it hap-
pens when expenditure on capital account
(that is, extension of plant, buildings, rail-
ways, etc.) is brisk. It explains also why
The Bulletin has implored Governments
a hundred times to leave off borrowing and
spending money when times were good and
work plentiful, and to reserve their spend-
ings until some time when private capital
expenditures were small.
The banks come into the business chiefly
because it is claimed that they steal the
profits derived from using credit which is
not theirs but the community’s: “practi-
cally all purchasing power comes into exist-
ence in the form of a bank credit. Bank
credits are created by the banks out of
nothing.” If that is so there is no reason
why anybody should ever be poor any more.
All Jimson has to do when he wants some-
thing is to establish a bank, create credit
out of nothing, and go out and buy with it
whatever he wants! It is all nonsense, of
course—credit is not created out of nothing.
When you give a man credit you give him
the run of your pocket up to a limit; and
whether that is worth anything to him de-
pends on two things: (1) his ability to get
credit from others on the strength of having
got credit from you; (2) his ability to get
real money from your , pocket when he is
pressed for it. The story that the credit
which a bank gives and a customer gets
belongs in some way to the public is very
popular, and very absurd.
But the banks have other crimes to their
account. “Money is never borrowed except
to be spent; but as it must subsequently be
repaid, the borrowers have to spend it in
producing or inducing the production of
something that can be sold; which means
that the harder the community works and
the more it produces the deeper it goes in
debt to the banks.” So when a man owns,
say, a mine, and has discovered a rich reef,
it will pay him and the community better
not to work it —the more he produces the
more the community will owe the banks.
Also, the better the season and the higher
wool and wheat prices the poorer the com-
munity because the more it will owe the
banks. These things may be great truths;
but they seem to this paper to be merely
great nonsense.
If the present system is to be held re-
sponsible for all the bad things to-day,
it must be held responsible equally for all
the good things. We are suffering what
we believe to be the worst industrial crisis
in the world’s history; yet it can be said
with the utmost confidence that, notwith-
standing the unemployment and distress, the
average of well-being and comfort in the world
is far higher than it was during the period
of greatest prosperity prior to, say, 1831.
It is beyond all question that the average
man in employment is living in luxury com-
pared with the average man in employment
100 years ago; while the average man who
is not employed is living under conditions
which would have been beyond the wildest
dreams of his unemployed grandfathers.
The “Edinburgh Review” of 1831 re-
viewed the wage scales then in force:
“The allowance scales now issued are usually
framed on the principle that every laborer
should have a gallon loaf [Blb. lloz.] of
standard wheaten bread [or its equivalent]
weekly for every member of his family, and
one over: that is, four loaves for three per-
sons, and so on.” In 1830 “children were
still working in British factories 12 hours a
day.” In 1832 during the cholera epidemic
in Manchester “the special board of health
appointed during the cholera epidemic in-
spected 4572 workmen’s houses and found
1649 without sanitary accommodation in
any form.”
And our modern system of capital
development out of the surplus earnings of
industry is still producing remarkable re-
sults. For example:—
In 1913 a tyre-builder could produce an average
of 10 tyres in 10 hours. To-day in the same number
of hours he can make 100 The [American] car-
owner paid £2 3s. 4d. in 1913 for the same tyre
value that he gets to-day for 4s. 2d.
What investment in plant, etc., means to
the community was shown in recent U.S.A.
figures of the electric light and power indus-
try. The total investment in 1912 was
2175 million dollars; in 1930, 11,850 million
dollars. Meantime the per capita consump-
tion in domestic service had gone from
under 250 to 542 kilowatt hours, the aver-
age price had been lowered from 8.3 to
6.04 cents per hour, and the wages per
employee had gone from 702 to 1468 dollars
in 1927.
The world’s money system has its defects:
every man-made thing has. But it has wit-
nessed such astounding human progress,
and can be clearly shown to have ministered
to it, that the man who would tear it up
by the roots in order to impose something
wholly untried greatly lacks a sense of pro-
portion.
SOME PEOPLE ARE GAOLED FOR
BALANCING BUDGETS.
We have made a bit of a fetich of the
balancing of budgets. Certainly budgets
ought to be balanced; but less harm may
be done by leaving them unbalanced than
by balancing them in the wrong way. The
clerk who makes a passion of “the ponies”
and dips his hands into his employer’s till
to pay the s.p. bookmaker balances his
budget, but the community sends him to
prison all the same. Deeming balanced his
budget by murder; the law said that he
might have only one wife, and he obeyed
the law by burying the excess under the
hearthstone. The law, instead of applauding,
hanged him.
Only in our own political sphere is the
balancing of budgets held to be of greater
importance than the manner of the balanc-
ing. Elsewhere judges, magistrates and the
rest of the community have a rigid formula:
they tell the man in the dock that he
shouldn’t have got into trouble, and that
the robbery of Smith is still robbery even
though it was done to pay Brown. In
politics that sound rule does not apply. Not
only is Smith robbed to pay Brown; but
we continue our improper relations with
Brown, so that we are obliged to go on rob-
bing Smith in order to go on paying Brown.
At present, however, the politician can’t do
even that much. He has to borrow to bal-
ance his budget; and on the day when he
can do it without borrowing he will on
present appearances reach out for a halo.
It seems proper to remind him, therefore,
that two-thirds of the men who are serving
long sentences for forgery and embezzle-
ment were merely trying to balance their
budgets.
The politicians are not practising forgery
and embezzlement; but whether, morally,
they are not doing as bad is very doubtful.
They are requiring their collectors of taxes
to make demands on the public which are as
impudent and outrageous as any embezzle-
ment ever was. The demand upon the Mel-
bourne Tramways Trust for sales tax on cars
constructed in the trust’s own works is only
one case in point, and not the worst. “Our
business is to administer the law,” one
replied to a protest the other day—“we have
nothing to do with equity and good con-
science.”
Long after budgets have been balanced,
therefore, the politicians will have work to
do, if we can get them to do it. Last April,
when the Tariff Board considered a pro-
posal to tax imported books, there was a
protest from university professors, libra-
rians, workers’ educational societies, writers
and artists; and the proposal was turned
down hard. Yet to-day there is a sales tax
of 6 p.c. and primage of 10 p.c. on these
very imports, and these plus exchange mean
a duty far higher than was so emphatically
rejected after inquiry. One result was shown
recently in purchases made by Melbourne
University. It voted £3500 for the purchase
of necessary books; but sales tax, primage
and other charges amounted to £l3OO, leav-
ing only £2200 for the books. The duties
are thus preventing the importation of
works which Australian students should
have, and they are not giving employment
to a single Australian workman.
We almost flatter ourselves that our
deficits this year will be no more than about
16 or 18 millions; and by 1934 we think our
accounts may be square. But if they are
only squared by collecting outrageous taxes,
then they might as well not have beep,
squared at all—or perhaps better. There is
only one honest way of meeting the situa-
tion, and that is by such a reduction of
public expenditure as we have not yet had
the pluck to even begin to face.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Labor and Its Opponents Change Places.
In 1891 the first Labor party was elected to
an Australian Parliament. Down to that
time the industrial workers were divided up
among the old political parties; some were
enthusiastic freetraders, others enthusiastic
protectionists, others enthusiastic single-
taxers. For 20 years at least there had been
strivings and stragglings, and at different
times half a dozen men had been sent into
the House by their working mates. But
they were mere voices crying in the wilder-
ness. Even the first Labor party in N. S.
Wales had not learned the whole lesson of
the past; wherefore among those who
knocked at the party door were some who.
though elected as Laborites, were pledged
also either to protection or to single tax,
to support Parkes or, like Andy Kelly,
never to cast a vote in his favor.
At the first annual conference an attempt
was made to comb out the tangles and
declare what were the requisites of a party
in Labor’s new position. And this one
thing emerged as important beyond all
others—solidarity on essentials. The pledge
that followed this resolution bound the
Labor candidate to vote on the platform
of the party, on matters involving the fate
of a Ministry and on the creation of mono-
polies as the majority of Caucus should
decide; on all other matters the member was
to be unbound. Upon that foundation of
solidarity the party was built; to that it
owed its young life, to that is due its pre-
sent extraordinary power.
The wheel has turned full circle. To-day
it is the Labor party which, though appa-
rently divided, is still united against what
it chooses to call its enemies; it is the
“enemies” who are divided as Labor was
40 years ago. Down to the latest ’eighties
Labor was never able to sort out the things
that really mattered from the great mass
of non-essentials; it was only when its
great and wise founders constructed a plat-
form of 16 planks, almost evei-y plank con-
cerned with the workers’ daily life, that
they started to get anywhere. Until then
they had permitted themselves to be side-
tracked a hundred times; there was no more
side-tracking when from their programme
was cut out every pretty theory on which
the politician loved to spin his webs, and
the whole thing was made intensely prac-
tical, touching nothing but the everyday
life of the men to whom it was addressed.
Labor has got those who are opposed to
it in its later manifestations just where
Labor’s opponents had Labor 50 years ago.
And Labor’s opponents can only escape by
doing precisely the things that Labor did:
by coming together on a policy from
which the non-essentials have been cut
away, from which all the pretty theories
that don’t matter in our daily lives
have been discarded. Labor realised
50 years ago that it was being ex-
ploited and robbed; to-day it is Labor which
is engaged in exploitation and robbery by
political action. Labor escaped from its
enemy by forgetting everything else but
the attack that was being made upon it;


Labor’s opponents will have to follow the
same course to-day or be skinned and
stripped to the bone.
So, far as The Bulletin is concerned the
most cheerful feature of that indispensable
coming together of all the elements opposed
to political Labor is that the genuine
worker is going to be the greatest gainer
by it, just as the honest and reasonable
employer was the greatest gainer from the
earlier efforts of the Labor party.
4
Re-manning Industry.
That the banks, after agreeing to finance
Australian Government deficits, consented
only with great reluctance to also finance
a loan programme does not mean that they
would be either unwilling or unable to
finance productive enterprises. The trouble
about deficits is that the money has almost
always been consumed in something which
will not bring in any return at all, while
the return from Government loan under-
takings is uncertain and at best spread over
a long period. But a loan to enable a
manufacturer to produce stock will come
back to the lender as soon as the stock is
marketed, just as a loan to a grazier to
carry on operations during the growing
months will be repaid out of the sale of the
wool or the fat lambs. Every ordinary
loan made by a banker must have a string
tied to it; he can pledge his own credit only
if he can see himself repaid with interest
within a reasonable period.
The reluctance of the banks to make loans
which could not be repaid out of the pro-
ceeds of the works or services on which
they were spent is therefore no reason why
we should not go ahead with plans for
restoring industry that will call for loans.
A first step has been taken in Sydney,
where employers and employees in the
secondary industries have agreed to meet
and talk things over. The indisputable fact
is that there is a potential market here; all
these hundreds of thousands who are out
of work would be buyers if they had the
money to buy with, and the only reason
they haven’t the money is that they are out
of work. They never can be buyers until
they are in work.
A tremendous responsibility will lie upon
this conference. If it shows a hearty co-
operation, a willingness and determination
to cut costs of production to the bone, there
is, no question about the necessary credits
to re-man the industries being forthcoming.
The standard by which costs must be judged
is the price of our staple products. In the
years that have passed our capacity to pay
depended largely upon our foreign loans.
They have stopped absolutely, and now our
capacity to pay depends upon what we can
get for what we can dig or coax out of the
soil and the sea. We may rebel; we may
protest that this means lowering our
standard of living; but there is no escape.
We may be very sorry for the man who,
used to a two-shilling meal, finds only
eighteenpence in his pocket; but we know
that he must be content now with an
eighteenpenny meal. And what is true of
one man is true of a million. Printing bits
of paper will not add one farthing to our
Wealth. We can humbug ourselves that
way for a time; but it only means piling up
our difficulties still higher, just as our loan
policy did.
4
The Case for Westralia.
Dear Bulletin, — Many of us on this side of
the continent, read you with much interest
and delight in these difficult times We are
able to follow you in many things, but
difference of circumstances naturally gives
difference of outlook in other things. For
instance, we have never been able to see
how we on this side of the continent could
benefit by protection afforded secondary
industries 2500 miles away; nor have we
been able to follow you in many things
where the interests of the West have had
to be subject to the interests of the East.
I am afraid you do not accurately gauge
the sentiment and purpose at the back of
the Secession movement. (Secession is an
unfortunate word, but we have failed to dis-
cover a softer sounding one to convey what
our objective is.) Contrary to the belief of
those who do not understand us, we have
a great love for Australia. We have also a
great love for the Old Country, whence our
fathers came. Nor do we lack affection for
our brothers in Maoriland. But it does
not follow that, because we have strong
national aspirations and because we are the
most loyal people on this earth, we should
consider it necessary or even wise that we
should be governed from Westminster or
from Canberra. There is no reason at all
why we should be inside the same fiscal edi-
fice as London, Wellington (M.L.) or Syd-
ney. We do not forget that “West Australia
is an ‘economic island’ separated from her
sister States by a sea of solid ground.”
The agricultural and pastoral people in
this State declared against entiy into the
Federation by 7311 votes against 3488 for.
The interests upon which W.A. depends
almost entirely (wool and wheat) were quite
aware of what Federation would mean,
31 years ago. The newcomers on the gold-
fields won the day for Federation—26,4s3
for, 1826 against. Yet please let us not be
misunderstood. We are not out to break up
anything; we are out to build up the safety
of Australia and her people by bringing
about such a state of affairs that this vacant
portion of our continent may become
adequately peopled and may be placed in
a position to meet her heavy obligations.
We believe we would still purchase from
our friends in the east the bulk of our
requirements, but we think we should be
able to buy, say, sugar at least as favorably
as Maoriland can. And we would buy
other things on a competitive market, just
as we have to sell everything we produce
from the soil on the fiercest market there
is. Dumping of Eastern States’ goods into
W.A. would cease, and such thoroughly legi-
timate industries as cement, jam, bacon, etc.,
could go peacefully upon their way. Why
not?
The ideal seems to be an Australasian
Union, with co-operation in every possible
way between Eastern Australia, Maori-
land and that more distant “economic
island” West Australia. But let the three
units be politically separate. All the eastern
Australian capitals are ipside a distance
of 700 miles as the crow flies from Canberra.
Wellington is 1200 miles away; the distant
member, Perth, is 2200 miles away.
This is a new country, and its develop-
ment should be worked out by people on
the spot. The now dominant political voice
of the eastern capital cities should be silent
when the future of this country is being
planned. It is in the ultimate interests even
of Sydney that it should be so. If the
manufacturers of Eastern Australia would be
unable to capture the W.A. market by
having to scale the same wall as other
countries and under the set of favorable
trade agreements that it would naturally
pay us to make—well, then, God save the
future of Australian manufacturing indus-
tries! The Eastern States would hardly ex-
pect W.A. to remain with them inside a
fiscal edifice when by so remaining the
natural progress of the West must be im-
paired for the benefit of the more wealthy
east.
Australians as a whole are typically
British in their attitude towards political
liberty and freedom. This wish of West
Australians that we should for the future
run our own business, and by so doing more
effectually play our part in building up a
great and sound Australia, needs only to be
understood to receive the support of the
great majority of Australians.—Yours faith-
fully, E. H. B. Lefroy (W.A.).
4
The Primary Producers’ Bank.
When the Primary Producers’ Bank closed
its doors there were 492,612 £5 shares paid
mostly to £l, but a few to only 12s. 6d.
The bulk of the shareholders are thus liable
to be called on for £4 a share, the others
for more. With a few exceptions they are
farmers, and, being farmers, are in a bad
way. If they are pressed by liquidators,
many of them will have to sacrifice the few
possessions they have left. And inevitably,
unless something energetic is done, there
will have to be liquidation. Is there no
way to avoid it?
As at February 28 of this year the paid
capital was £439,402 and premium and other
reserves £89,130, a total of £528,532 share-
holders’ funds. The advances, etc., along
with premises and furniture, were £1,726,356.
If the total of shareholders’ interest in the
business were used to write down these
assets, it would mean that a depreciation of
over 30 p.c. would be provided for; and
there is no reason whatever to suspect that
anything like that loss would be made if
the business were carried on and forced
realisation thus avoided.
It would pay shareholders well to forfeit
all they have put into the business: if by
doing so they can escape the calls which
now hang over them, they will have made
a very good bargain. To allow them to do
this, however, they must find someone who
will take over the entire business—deposit
and other liabilities on the one side and
assets on the other. If capital and reserves
are used to write down assets, a substantial
part of the book surplus should with
ordinarily careful handling be converted
into real surplus.
The work of the moment is to show
a bank that here is business worth
attention. No doubt there are difficul-
ties —there always are. Most of the
clients are farmers; and farmers, even
though their liabilities may_ be well
covered, represent a potential demand for
assistance at a time when assistance is not
easy to give. But investigation of the
accounts would, The Bulletin believes,
show a probable surplus, if the business
were in a bank’s hands, quite large enough
to compensate for any inconvenience of
that kind. It is not likely that there would
be any considerable withdrawal of deposits.
The substantial bank which will take over
the whole concern will rather earn the
gratitude of the depositors as well as of the
shareholders. And gratitude is goodwill.
Moreover, the' business is worth some-
thing. Had the directors long ago made a
frank statement of the position, it might
have shown the business in a much better
light. On the published figures it looked as
though all but £61,000 of premium of £1
collected per share had gone in establishing
the bank, and that, instead of an aggregate
profit of £29,000, there had been an actual
loss of £402,000. In fact it could not have
been anything like that, because something
indefinite, but certainly over £250.000, was
paid in commission to share-sellers and to
Lands Credit, a share-selling organisation.
Efforts certainly ought to be made to
avoid a forced liquidation. There could
be no worse time for such a course; mora-
toriums. in force in some form in every
State where this bank is established, will
make realisation slow and costly, and will
even then entail a sacrifice of assets, which
an outright sale and absorption will avoid.
4
The Missed Census.
There is no reason why the Scullidore
Government shouldn’t get busy even now
on the Australian census, and bring it out
a year later, instead of leaving it to moulder
indefinitely and advertise Australia as the
world’s worst deadbeat. The census would
supply valuable information, it would cost
comparatively little, and it would supply
temporary employment for a number of
deserving people. Money hasn’t been saved
by having no census; the lack of one has
simply added to the number of unemployed,
and increased the dole, and lengthened the
bread-line.
An item about which it would be pleasant to
have definite information is the Statisti-
cian’s estimate that three of the six State
capitals declined a little in population dur-
ing 1930, as follows:
Capital Rest of State
Increase. Increase.
Sydney .. .. 14,900 8,201
Perth .. .. 1,892 1,945
Hobart .. .. 300 1,279
Decrease.
Melbourne .. 3,600 17,352
Bi’isbane .. .. 5,380 22,704
Adelaide .. .. 478 2,332
It is an interesting question why the coun-
try districts of N. S. Wales should appa-
rently be pouring their population into
Sydney, while in Queensland Brisbane seems
to have taken its ticket for the bush; and
it is only one of a number of questions.
It ma) r be a miscalculation, or there may
be a lesson in it. For instance, how many
of the new country population of Queens-
land (22,704) have settled in tropical
Queensland, and how many of the new
country population of Westralia (1945) have
settled in tropical Westralia, which is a
larger area and more in need of settlers?
In other words, what kind of hash is being
made of our great tropical inheritance, and
why?
Uncle’s Opportunity.
The recent announcement by President
Hoover that Uncle Sam is waiting eagerly
to help any new movement towards inter-
national disarmament will relieve those who
have been viewing with some anxiety the
tremendous increase in American armaments
since the Great War, an increase which
seems out of place in connection with a
nation that has no imperial ambitions.
A splendid opportunity to prove American
bona fides in this regard would be the
abandonment of the American naval and
military station at Pago Pago, in the
Samoan Islands. The reason for its exist-
ence has long been a puzzle to those in-
terested in Southern Pacific questions. As
far back as 1878 the Americans concluded
a treaty with the Samoans allowing them to
establish a naval coaling station at the fine
harbor of Pago Pago. This gradually grew
to a naval station garrisoned by marines,
and remains so to this day, though coal
has quite given way to oil. Indeed, pacifist
America is now the only great nation which
maintains a military garrison in the
Southern Pacific; Britain and France, with
infinitely more extensive interests, are con-
tent with local police forces.
The outpost has no particular reason for
existence unless we take into consideration
a contingency to be mentioned later. It is
too far removed to be of any use in the
event of trouble with Japan, always a
potential adversary of America in the
Pacific. As far as that possibility is con-
cerned, Hawaii, the Philippines and Guam
are much more in the picture. But it does
lie conveniently close to Fiji, Maoriland
and Australia, and it does straddle the main
shipping route between those countries and
America.
That retention of a point d’appui is due
to the possibility of the United States and
Britain some day coming to daggers-drawn
will be scoffed at by those comfortably-
minded folk who, a few years ago, insisted
that a conflict between the Briton and his
“German cousin” was an impossibility.
Nevertheless, it is on record that the late
L. A. Thurston, who was largely responsible
for the granting of a “constitution” to
American Samoa, publicly advised the reten-
tion of Pago Pago as a military station on
the ground that “if we should ever get into
war with Great Britain, naturally we would
like to have a good harbor from which we
could prey on New Zealand and Australia.”
A good way for Uncle to show that the
publicist was talking through his hat would’
be to pull up pegs and forfeit the claim at
Pago Pago.
4
Small Holdings for Unemployed.
Dear Bulletin, —I was much interested in
the article “Small Holdings for Unem-
ployed” (B. 9/9/’3l), as I have been think-
ing along similar lines for some time. I
feel sure there are many landowners who
would willingly spare a few acres to enable
out-of-work men to grow at least their own
foodstuff if the proposition were only put
to them. Probably small groups, each with
one or two experienced men, would do
better than unorganised individuals.
Here is something concrete to lead off
with. I have about 100 acres cleared for
the plough but not fenced, which I am pre-
pared to lease at a peppercorn rental for
anything up to three years for the use and
benefit of the unemployed of N. S. Wales
or Queensland, if either Government (or
any other responsible body) wants it. The land
is second-rate farm land near Tenterfield;
given a little fertiliser and a lot of faithful
cultivation, it will produce reasonable crops
of all kinds of vegetables and farm truck,
from potatoes and pumpkins to sugar-beet,
coffee-beans and tobacco; no irrigation is
necessaiy in this district, the rainfall being
about 35 inches, and droughts are rare. A
colony of a dozen or more men. working
together, could buy their meat “on the
hoof” and slaughter it themselves; and,
growing quantities of vegetables, they would
make a little dole go a long way. A few shil-
lings might also be earned in spare time
by fossicking. Tools, tents, etc., would have
to be provided—l have lots of land, but no
cash. Huts could be built later of slabs
split locally.
I have thought the matter out in some
detail, if anyone should be interested. The
scheme could be developed to a very big
thing if a little “guts” were put into it.
What do other landowners think?—Yours,
Jas. Macansh.
4
State Movements Compared.
The regular quarterly explosion of statistics
from Wickens’s department, which is nomi-
nally in the village of Canberra, brings the
figures for the Commonwealth in a few
cases up to June, 1931. Others are up to
June, 1930, or to an intermediate date, for
some of the details require to be pursued to
remote places and are hard to catch. Rail-
way statistics, for instance, are of an elusive
character and arrive slowly. One outstand-
ing lesson is that Communist doctrines don’t
pay, and that Lang, of N. S. Wales, who
goes about like a roaring waterspout seek-
ing whom he may devour, is a stupid
failure. Some points are as follows:
In the 15 months covering 1930 and the first
quarter of 1931, the Commonwealth lost 16,990 people
by the excess of departures over arrivals. N. S.
Wales lost 11,549, or nearly two-thirds of the total.
Queensland, which has Moore instead of Lang,
actually showed a gain of 7260 ; but South Australia,
Westralia, Tasmania and Victoria lost enough to
make the total result a shortage of 16,990.
The number of factories was 216 less in 1929-30
than in 1928-29. N. S. Wales lost 257 factories,
but the other States, notably Tasmania and Queens-
land, gained a few. Certainly Lang did not reach
office till late in 1930 ; but his friend Jock Garden
was in command at the Trades Hall throughout the
period mentioned.
The number of hands employed in factories
decreased between the same dates by 31,288. The
decrease in N. S. Wales was 17,893, or more than
half. Tasmania showed the only improvement.
For the year ended June, 1930, the average
wages nominally paid in N. S. Wales factories
(men, women, girls and boys) were the highest in
Australia and the highest in the State’s record or
in Australia’s record since there has been an
authentic record. It. is the policy of Langism that,
wages must nominally go up, or be kicked up, even
if they are so high (nominally) that they can’t be
paid. This may explain why 257 N.S.W. factories
closed and why 17,893 N.S.W. factory workers were
turned adrift.
In the same year (1929-30) there were 1,511,241
days’ work lost in Australia through strikes, and of
these 1,443,366 were lost in discontented N. S.
Wales. The loss in wages was set down at
£1,592,342, of which £1,516,296 was lost by N. S.
Wales.
Banking figures are supplied up to March 31, 1931.
Savings Bank deposits were ,on the decline in all
the States and Territories, especially N. S. Wales
and Victoria. But Victoria didn’t visibly turn a
hair, partly, it may be, because Labor Premier Hogan
isn’t the same waterspout as Labor Premier Lang,
and doesn’t insist on meddling with everything.
4
Pay-day at Babinda (N.Q.).
“Gad” resumes his travels: —
I travelled 21 miles yesterday, to be here to draw
my weekly sustenance (55.) to-day (Tuesday). Part
of the way I got a car ride; the rest motor-truck
and foot. Getting about on the track reminds.one
of the old lorry-jumping days in France. Only
now we are not quite so well found.
Coming into the town I saw the main bagmen's
camp. It is a disused brothel. There were four or
five fellows there. One other was out at the back,
doing something to a fire and talking to one of the
women from the place next door. (The place next
door is the new brothel.) “Don’t camp in the old
’un,” someone warned me up at Mossman; “you’ll
get all lousy there.” So I and my mate pitched our
bit of a fly further on —on the bank of the river,
where there is clean fresh water and a profusion of
tropical foliage.
In the evening we walked up town. Outside the
picture-show there were a half-dozen other bagmen.
We all stood there watching a few prosperous folk-
paying 2s. sd. each to get in. At eight o’clock
one of us put the acid on the girl in the box.
She said “Yes, you can fill up the empty seats.”
The principal film was about the French Revolution.
The mob clamoring for bread at the gates of the
Tuileries somehow made one feel wondrous kind
—towards the revolutionaries.
Next day we gave in our cards. At most stations
you have a chance of getting your rations before
midday. But here you leave your card in the morn-
ing and come back in the afternoon for the tickets.
It was three o’clock before we were clear and five
o’clock before we had drawn our rations. Most of
the mob had nothing to eat until the evening that
day.
On ration day, in a police station, one has a fair
insight into humanity. There’s very little bounce
about the mob here. Those very fellows who, when
far from the station, are heroes of their own en-
counters with the “Johns” are abjectly servile in the
actual presence of the uniform. While we were at
the station the sergeant turned on a few of them.
“You’re becoming' residents round here,” he
barked. “You better take a walk, some of you.
I won’t give any of you rations here again until
the end of this month”.... What some of them said
in reply to him was not heard until we were very-
far away. Such is the wisdom of the mob.
We filled the store. Some of them beguiled the
time by transferring tins of jam, etc., to their nose-
bags. Certainly the tins were temptingly laid out
on shelves —and the mob were hungry. Their last five
bobs’ worth had probably been cut out a day ago.
Besides, this storekeeper would not allow them to
draw any tobacco.
This is a good-looking town. But it is not a
good place for bagmen. The sergeant does not like
them. And I don’t know whether he’s right or
wrong.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP / - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL -------- 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRBT.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts o t
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Eagagemeiat Miags
£2O
£3O
<s|»B®§«^
£25
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Like all Lang’s Acts the Savings Bank
measure had an amending bill hanging to its
tail. This was alleged to make it easier
for old depositors to transfer their accounts,
cos. being permitted to become depositors.
Lang drew a picture of business firms lining
up to accept the, locked-up deposits in
exchange for goods ; but he took mighty good
care he didn’t do any lining up himself. An
old deposit may be quite good enough for
Smith, Ltd., the drapers, but it is no
good to pay State income tax or probate
duty. As a matter of fact, the average
market price of a deposit is now 16s. in
the £.
Under great pressure the Commonwealth
and other banks have agreed to (1) finance
the year’s deficits (probably 16 millions),
(2) keep loan works going till the end of
the year (say 4 millions) and (3) put up 3
millions for a bonus of 6d. per bushel on
next season’s wheat. “We had to press very
hard to get this,” Scullin says, referring to
the latter item ; and some day, if there is
a mighty crash, that admission will be re-
membered. Governments, with enormous
power behind them, who press banks “very
hard” to do' what it is quite obvious they
are very doubtful whether they should do,
are taking a tremendous responsibility.
“Charlie Chaplin announces that he is coming to
Australia to make bushranger films, and that he will,
as far as possible, employ local film stars as the
heroes.”
“Don’t tell me there are no film stars in
Australia. Why, man, you’re an ideal
Ned Kelly.”
Westralia is very tired of Jimmy Mitchell,
its Premier. Jimmy, like Lang, promised the
unemployed at election-time that he would
find them all jobs on loan works; and, when
reminded of this, as he is every week or so,
he mumbles something to the effect that
everything will be all right when the loan
drunk is resumed —as if there were the
ghost of a chance of that. He gratified the
secessionists by voting for the referendum
they demanded, and then infuriated them by
turning his Savings Bank over to the Com-
monwealth. In fact, like the amateur con-
jurer at the party, Jimmy has tied himself
into all sorts of knots and doesn’t know
how to untie them.
“The movement” has reached a grotesque
position in South Aus. All the Federal
Labor members and most of the State Labor
members have been expelled for supporting
the Premiers’ plan; others have been ex-
pelled for supporting the Lang plan; and
Kenneally, Federal president of the A.L.P.,
is to be expelled for ruling that the
Premiers’ plan does not conflict with Labor
policy. The Macedonian sighed because
there were no more worlds to conquer. It
would be a dreadful thing if the South Aus.
Labor conference found it had no one left
to expel.
Threats to hold up the shearing have fol-
lowed the cancellation of pastoral awards
by the Queensland Government. Shearers
and shed-hands are not affected, but the
AAV.U. has warned other station employees
that they are not to take work save at
award rates. It is darkly hinted that
shearers and shed-hands mav be called out
in support of the others. But surely the
A.W.U. bosses know what wool is bringing,
and how many unemployed there are; and
surely they haven’t forgotten the dead
failure of their N.S.W. strike in 1922 for
what they called their “full policy terms.”
In accordance with the Premiers’ plan
for “general sacrifice,” the N.S.W. Govern-
ment has a bill before the House to reduce
interest on mortgages, etc., by 224 p.c. lo
save future trouble it is to be hoped the
law will define interest on a mortgage. In
most cases the document says the interest
shall be (say) 7 p.c., reducible to 6 P-C- it
paid within a certain period; and everybody
calls that a 6 p.c. mortgage. Yet if the 224
p.c. applies only to the 7 p.c., which is the
actual rate, the mortgagor will pay to 93.
if he parts up promptly and 6 p.c. it fie
doesn’t part up promptly. Also, unless great
care is taken, the provision relating to pret.
shares will produce a crop of anomalies In
some cases, for example, pref. shares have
provided the working capital; the ordinaries
represent goodwill, etc. It isn’t easy to see
why prefs. should be penalised in such cases
for the benefit of ordinaries.
That comic “Awake! Arise!” telegram
from some German Bolshies to. the British
naval ratings who struck against cuts . in
their pay typified the inability of the Sovret-
iscd to understand normal thought-processes.
There were many such demonstrations in the
A.I.F. after the Armistice. One on the Arawa
—a strike against a Melbourne quarantine
order after a- trip during which no shore leave
had been granted owing to the influenza epi-
demic—was identical as regards the time it
lasted, and the fact that the Government and
not the Service was responsible for the griev-
ance. Such releases of emotion come to no-
thing in forward communities because the
demonstrators know that to go. on must
mean revolution, and that revolution merely
results in the exchange of one set of bosses
for another.
There has been, brisk fighting between
Japanese and Chinese forces in Manchuria,
into which immigrants from Central China
are pouring at the rate of half a million
a year; and the Japs are back in Mukden,
where they won the greatest battle of their
war with Russia. The murder of a captain
and the tearing-up of portion of the South
Manchuria railway, which is under Japan-
ese control, are said to have goaded the
Japs to take up arms, but there is talk of
“300 outstanding Sino-Japanese problems
which the Chinese have" repeatedly ignored.”
Jap official reports say that the victorious
actions cost them 63 killed and 119, wounded,
and that “Japan will not hesitate to settle
the matter ,by force of arms” if “diploriiatic
proceedings fail.” The business is not much
of an advertisement for the League of
Nations, to which the contending parties
have belonged since 1920, and in which those
eminent pacifists and race-exclusionists the
Scullidores have such faith.
It had to come. A man in Lang’s electorate
has given up a three-days-a-week job “in
order to make myself eligible to join the
Unemployed Workers’ Movement.”
Victoria’s Nat.-Lib. group has decided to
call itself the United Australia party, like
the Lyons-Latham crowd in the Fed. Parlia-
ment. Argyle will continue to lead, with
Maefarlan as deputy. Efforts to induce
John Allan’s Cockies to join in were fruit-
less. The Agrarians prefer to plough in
their own paddocks, but will be friendly
neighbors.
It took Vic. Parliament 11 weeks to pass
the Financial Emergency Bill, providing for
redurition of State salaries and of interest on
mortgages. The finished measure was very
different from the one introduced. It had
grown immensely while creeping through the
law factory.
Sydney’s great Champagne Bridge has to
be paid for in Beer days, and there is trouble
about interest and upkeep. Years ago, before
the job was begun, Sydney and its northern
suburbs were charged a special rate; but
what wasn’t going to cost more than 54
millions will cost over nine, and, as many
city and more North Shore ratepayers can’t
see how they are going to benefit by the
bridge, there is a howl against extra 'taxa-
tion. In the distressful circumstances a toll
has been suggested by a committee of depart-
mental heads, that not being the sort of lion’s
mouth the Government cared to put its head
into without a lead. Three years ago a toll
Would have been scoffed at; but smooth
working and remarkable financial results of
the Spit and Tom Ugly’s bridges have had
their effect.
Economy in the wrong places continues
apace. The Vic. Ministry has refused to
make Prof, Wadham’s job as dean of the
faculty of agriculture at Melb. University a
permanent one, so that brilliant scientist is
going back to Britain. Victoria has lately
lost two other leading agricultural experts :
Hugh Pye, whose specialty is wheat; and
Prof. Richardson. Pye was retired while
still in his intellectual prime ; the Prof, went
to a South Aus. job. And Dr. W. J. Dowson,
the Speck’s only plant pathologist, is off
to Cambridge to take up a position under
the Rockefeller Foundation. During his
term in Tasmania he did invaluable work
in investigating diseases in potatoes and
apples, but it wasn’t political, so it didn’t
appeal to the politicians.
It’s a great year for Sydney mob-orators.
Hard on the appointment of Kay and Hutt
(of the Labor “army”) to the Meat Board,
Donald Grant, of I.WAV. notoriety in the
war days, has become a city alderman for
Phillip ward. Decent Labor feeling is still
strong against Grant, and as compared with
general-election figures 15 months ago the
party vote fell from 3451 to 1368; the party
majority from 1192 to 173. Indeed the
Domain spouter would have gone down but
for Sydney’s staggering lack of civic pride ; as
the Civic Reform candidate put it bitterly,
“there are 2600 property owners and rate-
payers” (as well as lodgers) “in the ward,
but not half of them went to the poll.” Such
people deserve to be represented at the Town
Hall by Grant and to be governed by the
Lang gang.
Gordon Coates, leader of the Maoriland
Reform party,'has at long last agreed to the
coalition with the Uriiteds proposed by Pri-
minister Forbes a year ago. The move has
been made imperative by the failure of the
three-party economy committee to agree on
any subject under Heaven ; the Laborites, led
by Holland, strenuously opposed reduction of
wages and of Government expenditure on
social services. Cabinet is to be reduced
from 14 to 10 inembers —five from each
party; and they arc to be chosen by the
party, not by the Priminister. Forbes will
carry on as head of the Government, but
Coates 'will be leader of the House. This is
an arrangement without precedent in M.L.
politics save in cases where the Premier was
a -Leg. Councillor.
There isn’t, and hasn’t been for years, any
fundamental difference, between the policies
of Maoriland’s Uriiteds and Reformers.
Coates started his political career under-
Ward’s banner* ifi 1911. He saw the error of
his ways in time to assist in the defeat of
the Liberals the following year, but has never
been anything remotely, approaching a Tory
of the Captain Russell school.
Caucusing one night last week, the non-
Labor members of Vic. Uppish House unex-
pectedly decided to vote for granting the
whole of the £1,976,000 provided for in the
Unemployment Relief Bill sent up _by the
Assembly, but conditions are to be inserted
that will be unacceptable to the Hogans.
The majority of those at the “informal meet-
ing,” as they called it, declared in favor of
amending the Factories Act and other indus-
trial . legislation so that pay for relief jobs
will be Is. Id. an hour for married men,
9d. for bachelors, lOd. for married women
with dependants and 6d. for single women;
and, in the case of persons under 21, 6d. an
hour for males and 4d. for females. Of the
£1,796,000 to be raised by super-income tax
and stamp duty on wages £328,000 will be
for rebates in respect of excess tax last year.
Some sort of compromise will be reached,
but there may be a threatened deadlock and
then a pow-wow between the Houses first.
It is a question whether the attitude of
the Premiers to the banks should be defined
as blackmail or terrorism, or whether there is
a third expression that would fit the case.
They, or some of them, are very reluctant to
cut down expenditure lest they should annoy
their supporters. They want money for
public works, but they don’t want t 0 put
loans on the local market and perhaps lose
face by failure. So there is a general demand
“Suffering from the effects of this loan dope
is he, Dr. Gibson? Well, prescribe more
loan dope, or it’ll be the worse for you.”
that the banks shall somehow dig out more
millions without any security that can be
realised if wanted. And if one of the banks
should come to grief through lending out too
much short-dated deposit money to politi-
cians who are long in paying, it will be an-
other evidence that capitalists are a bad lot,
and that politicians should have entire con-
trol of the depositors’ money and the share-
holders’ as well.
The well-meaning Scullin (very few people
have meant better than Scullin) has spoken
a piece about Canberra as an Australian
beauty spot which is shamefully, under-
appreciated. Canberra is a rather pretty
artificial garden, made and supported at
great expense; but visitors don’t feel it a
duty to go there in search of beauty or
marvels or legends, as they do to Rotorua in
Maoriland, and invalids don’t go to be cured
of strange diseases,- and bagmen don’t go
in quest of business. J Tlie expenditure on six
Federal. Territories (Canberra, North and
CentraDAustralia, Papua, New uuinea and
Norfolk Island) for 1930-31 was £865,002.
Canberra cost £650,827 of this.
Lang’s policy speech was a twelvemonth
old yesterday, Sept. 22. In it he promised
“restored prosperity, sound finance and
happy homes,” mentioning in particular that
he would put the unemployed back at work
by finding the money “to complete all those
incomplete public works in which many
millions are lying idle”; and that he would
repeal the Salaries Reduction Act and re-
view the incidence of” the unemployed-relict
tax; and that, “the Labor party sets its face
against all repudiation.” Achievements of
the twelvemonth included interest default,
a deficit of nine millions, a Savings Bank
smash, the establishment of a lottery on
“I suppose a man ought to blow the candle
out; but where are the presents?”
Savings Bank premises, 130,000 persons on
the dole, suspension of civil-service pay-
ments for five days, sweeping reductions in
the salaries that were to have been “re-
stored,” maintenance of the unemployment-
relief tax at Is. in the f after an attempt
had been made to raise it to ss. in the £,
defiance of and abject surrender to the Com-
monwealth in the matter of interest default,
the Loan Council and administrative econo-
mies. No anniversary feast was held at the
Trades Hall; perhaps it was thought that the
ghost of the ruined Savings Bank depositor
who shot himself the other day might be
there.
Judging by its reception in the Assembly,
there is a good chance of Vic. Parliament
passing a bill requiring solicitors who handle
trust funds to insure for the protection of
clients. The barristers who are not amal-
gams (there are 120 of them) will be exempt,
and so will solicitors who don’t take money
for investment.
What an ass Lang’s adviser Garden is!
“We want new markets/’ Garden said at the
last City Council meeting, “and I move that
we borrow the money in America. We could
get ten millions there.” And at the end of
the week City of Sydney 100-dollar 51 p.c.
bonds were sold in New York for 32 dollars.
The principle that work is a curse is
written into N.S.W. statute law. At Hunter’s
ITill, Sydney, a baker who provides free
bread for out-of-works’ children attending
school took the bread along as usual on the
bakers’ holiday. He was detected in the
act, haled to court, and fined £lO, the S.M.
stating that the law gave him no discretion.
In the same court on the same day, men
convicted of stealing portions of an unoccu-
pied house were fined £3; in another, not far
away, a dole-bilker with 48 charges against
him was fined £5.
Legislation passed in Queensland provides
for the regulation of the trochus-shell in-
dustry, which, now that pearl-shell is in the
doldrums, is of some importance to the
State. The shell, used for making cheap
buttons, is chiefly harvested by Japanese,
and the reefs have been heavily depleted.
The new Act fixes the minimum size of shell
to be taken and definite seasons for fishing.
Arthur Griffith to The Bulletin :
The Freetrade doctrine that a large volume of
imports' leads to a corresponding volume of Exports
seems to be badly crumpled by the trade relations
of Britain with Russia. Last year Britain purchased
from Russia £29,631,000 worth of goods, while her
exports to that country amounted to only £8,541,000.
Comrade Bolshie reciprocated by using the balance,
£21,000,000, paid in gold, towards purchasing
£27,966,000 worth of goods (mostly machinery)
from that arch-protectionist Uncle Sam.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“R. Volt”: When the new Emden reached
Singapore recently her commander expressed
a desire to proceed to Cocos and put up a
monument on North Keeling to the old
Emden. The Straits Government was will-
ing, but the commander said he would not
care to go unless he received an invitation
from Cocos itself. In due course the pro-
mise of a cordial welcome arrived in the
shape of a letter from the superintendent of
the Cocos cable station. It was signed
“Old De Presh seems to have hit everybody more or less, doesn't he, Teddy?”
“By love, yes; the old boy’s no respecter of per cents. — ha, ha!”
“G. H. K. La Nauze.” La Nauze was the
Australian wireless operator who sent out
file SOS which brought the Sydney to the
scene on Nov. 9, 1914. The coincidence was
the more remarkable inasmuch as La Nauze
had been in half a dozen other stations in
the interim.
* * *
“Nikko”: A retired Sydney business man
called for jury service had to deal as fore-
man with a case of robbery with violence.
The prisoner was a fine-looking man in the
thirties, and one of the jurors, an ex-clergy-
man, who said he had made a study of
physiognomy, declared that a man with a
face like that could not be guilty of such
a crime. Patiently the foreman pointed out
that they had to consider evidence, not
appearance ; the student of physiognomy
remained obdurate. He gave in only when
he was reminded that the man with the
blameless features had carried firearms. The
verdict delivered, prisoner’s record was
read out; it proved to be one of
the blackest in local police annals. Hurry-
ing to catch his ferry, the foreman
felt a detaining hand on his shoulder. “I
came after you to apologise,” said the ex-
clergyman breathlessly. “I realise now that
looks can be entirely misleading. Blank, my
lawyer, is the image of that prisoner. I'll
remove my business from his office.” Blank
died recently, full of years and honors. His
case supplied another proof of the unrelia-
bility of looks.
❖ ❖ ❖ sj:
“Aberdeen” : The most lavish counter-lunch
I ever saw was at Dunedin (M.L.). I was
not in need of it
at the time, but,
as a tourist, was
taken to see what
was justly con-
sidered a refuta-
tion of the charge
that Dunedin
was closefisted.
The pub (I can’t
remember the
name) was near
the waterfront:
a bar ran down
one side of a long
room, and on the
other was a table
heaped with all
sorts of cooked
dishes to which
anyone mig h t
help himself with
knife and fork,
there being-
benches for
gentlemen of leis-
ure. The bar was
covered with
plates containing
Stewart Island
oysters. The
procedure was
to breast the bar,
buy a large tank-
ard of beer for
3d., eat a plate of
oysters and then
sit down —if you
felt like it after-
lowering a dozen
of those huge
molluscs and
bang away at
the table until you were satisfied. The
boss, to whom I was introduced as a
distinguished visitor, as these things go,
assured me it was a payable proposition.
“Denison” : The Speck has had a blazing-
car mystery of its own. A young Launceston
building contractor of normal health and
habits was burnt to death in his car in the
middle of a suburban roadway one afternoon
last month. Several people had seen and
exchanged the time of day with him a short
while before; he had had trouble with the
’bus and had stopped to fix it. Local resi-
dents saw the fire; when the smoke cleared
away they found the owner still aboard
and beyond aid. How the fire originated;
above all, how an active man failed to
escape the flames, puzzled everyone. There
was no visible or imaginable motive for
suicide, and murder was clearly out of the
question. At the inquest motor experts were
able to show pretty circumstantially that
a leaking vacuum tank had saturated the
floor of the car, and that something, pro-
bably a spark from a faulty ignition-wire,
had started the blaze. The post-mortem
revealed nothing, but the medico accounted
for the victim’s failure to jump clear by
suggesting that he had been rendered uncon-
scious by petrol fumes. It sounded fairly
plausible, so, in the absence of more positive
evidence, the jury let it go at that,
* * * *
“Avon”: Five and twenty years ago or
thereabouts I spent many tedious hours in
M.L. watching the attempts of one 11. J.
Pitlier to fly. _ Pither, who had some local
fame as a racing cyclist, had made himself
a weird contraption of bamboo and canvas,
in the midst of which was stuck a very
heavy and very bulky one-cylinder motor. The
thing was rightly proportioned, and actually
did rise in the air once in Southland, which
encouraged Pither to tour the Dominion
making what he called “flying demonstra-
tions.” These, so far as my experience of
several of them went, consisted of wheeling
the machine into the biggest available park,
spending several hours getting the engine to
go, and then waiting for a period of perfect
calm. After five or six days of this a calm
would arrive, but the engine wouldn’t
officiate, and Pither would move on to the
next town. The chances against a calm
happening at a moment when the motor felt
disposed to be active must have been about
10,000,000 to 1, and Pither’s one autlienti-
cated flight must be regarded as a minor
miracle. The irony of it is that if the
engine had been taken out and the ’plane con-
"HAVE ONE WITH ME, OLD GIRL.”
verted into a glider it could have been flown
every windy day, but poor Fither didn’t
know that, and only about three people in
all the wide world could have given him
the helpful tip. Now a British lad in a
British machine has flown at the rate of
404 i m.p.h.
* * * *
“Takedown”: Before repudiation propa-
ganda hit Sydney most citizens had a horror
of being behind with the rent. It was the
ultimate shame. Some . evidence at a
suburban court last week reveals the
changed outlook. The tenant of a cottage
at 255. a week had been there for 18 months
and had paid four weeks’ rent. The land-
lord gave him his removal exes, and a
receipt in full to get him out. The defaulter
used the receipt to get another cottage, where
he is living rent free. But he is a gentle-
man compared to the occupant of a flat in
a block owned by a soft-hearted widow of
my acquaintance. This person refused to pay
a farthing for just on 10 months, after which
she despaired and left him in peace. He
thereupon visited all the other tenants and
told them they were fools not to follow his
example. Three proceeded to do so. Stung
to action, she took him to court, and a
magistrate has just given him another three
months at her expense under the new Lang
Act. Tradesmen, the railway and tramway
departments (both being hard hit by scal-
ers), bookies and even publicans are having
rough spins under the new code of commercial
ethics. A grocer who recently filed his
schedule told me that three-fourths of the
insolvencies in his suburb were due to bad
debts, and that Mr. Whiddon’s roaring busi-
ness was about the only one in the State
that was getting all the money due to it.
* * *
“Wodgil”: Hugh D. Mclntosh rounded
off his unlucky career as newspaper pro-
prietor with a* libel action against Sydney
“Truth,” which had pilloried him as “an
erstwhile pieman who drained the life-blood
from the ‘Sunday Times.’ ” Mclntosh asked
for £2500 damages, and was awarded a
farthing. Applying for costs, he was drily
informed that “Truth” had paid a shilling
into court, and that as the verdict was for
47 farthings less the application could not
be entertained. Other litigants have had
this staggering sort of experience, but seldom
does a newspaper run the risk of having
costs given against it by paying into court
as little as a shilling. The late Pennefather,
K.C., who if things had gone right was to
have become a Westralian Judge (_B. 2/9/’3l),
once sued the Perth “Sunday Times.” The
libel was admitted, and the jury fixed the
damages at £2O. In the ordinary course this
would have carried costs, but the newspaper
had already weighed in with £25, so in effect
poor Pennefather lost the case. In his agita-
tion he suggested that McCallum Smith, the
“Sunday Times” proprietor, should pay the
costs, but McCallum Smith couldn’t see it.
He comes from Inverness.
“Cosmos” : A Sydney daily-paper corres-
pondent has been complaining of “Bondi
hoodlums who annoy inoffensive people by
jumping over them, kicking sand in their
faces, and, in one instance, knocking over
a child in the process.” You can see this
sort of thing on all the big beaches round
Sydney during the summer, but you won’t
see it on any beach outside Australia. Not
even at Southend, which is the London sluin-
dwellers’ Brighton. Frequenters of wealthy
overseas beaches —Folkestone, Deauville,
Palm Beach, Waikiki —are considerate on a
point of manners; and frequenters of poor
beaches like Blackpool and Coney Island
don’t take liberties because it’s too dangerous.
Hoodlums who demonstrated at, say, South-
end or Margate would be liable to start a
riot and get hurt, unless they were very
drunk —drunkenness excuses a lot in con-
vivial England. The explanation of our
hoodlums is that the beaches of Sydney are
neither rich nor poor. All classes use them,
which means that they have no standards or
behavior. You see the same thing in 1 ariia-
ment. A nuisance might collect a punch m
the eye on a -beach, of course, as he might in
the ’Ouse, but the odds would always be
against it. The unwritten law of such resorts
is that those who like to behave decently
should be allowed to do so, while those-who
prefer to act the hog mustn t be interfered
with either in a free country.
* * *
“Tidapa”: Some new developments in
marine construction are embodied in the
motor-ship Tawali, which has come to Syd-
ney for a cargo of wool. The ship is elec-
trically equipped throughout; steam is only
generated for warming the engine-room while
she is in colder climates. Telephones between
bridge and engine-room are without mouth-
pieces and terminate in small flat discs; in
conversation the disc is pressed against the
throat and the message is conveyed without
any outside interference. Electric-fans are used
to circulate the air throughout every hatch,
ensuring such an even temperature that vary-
ing cargoes can now be stowed in the same
hatch without causing any undue worry.
The crew is housed in deck-cabins superior
to many occupied by officers on cargo-boats.
The forecastle has been fitted up to accom-
modate some 1500 Javanese pilgrims lo
Mecca.
“John D.”: Hobart’s exhibition of anti-
ques and the like netted over £l5OO for
the Mayor’s unemployment fund, and was so
interesting as a show that I should like to
see other capitals emulate it. The curios
ranged from a full-rigged ship in a lime-juice
bottle to Marie Antoinette’s jewel-case; and
in the art section there were a 200-guinea
Corot sketch, an alleged Rembrandt, and
some really beautiful and genuine water-
color portraits of ringletted early-Tasmani-
ennes by Wainwright the poisoner. But,
strangely enough, I could not. find a tinder-
box on view anywhere among the curios.
Less than a century ago they were every-
body’s only box o’ matches, but they are
evidently about as scarce already as a Tas.
aborigine’s suspenders.
“Cosec”: Touching barter (B. 16/9/’81).
the late Captain Elmslie, who made his
money at Charters Towers, used to buy a
new car every year, and, instead of selling
or trading in the old one, advertised liis
willingness to exchange it for a block of
land. Elmslie, an astute - psychologist,
reckoned that the prospect, of obtaining a
year-old car in place of something they had
probably been inveigled into buying by a
land salesman would appeal to many people.
It did; he thus acquired odds and ends of
Sydney property worth (in his time) more
than he would ever have got for his used
cars.
* ❖ * *
Reflections in the registrar’s office: —
An Australian artist who went to London to look
for a job returned the other day. “I noticed,” he
said, “that in England if you’re hungry you’re lean,
but in Australia you can be hungry and fat.” The
Sydney undertaker who lately withdrew his standing-
advertisement from the “S. M. Herald” “until busi-
ness improved ” had probably noticed much the same
thing. Federal Statistician Giblin has, too. Last
year’s Australian death-rate was 859 per 10(1,000
people, the lowest ever recorded, notwithstanding all
our bad times, and easily one of the best in the
world. The Dutchman has the best in Europe—96o
per 100,000, Norway next (1060), then Denmark.
Of the dominions, S’Africa follows Maoriland and
Australia; Canada is not far behind. The Soviet
republics’ latest figures are for 1927 ; they were then
2290 per 100,000 —one of the world’s worst.
Per contra, as they say in the corner-store classics,
we last year had our lowest-ever birth-rate —1993
per 100,000 of the population. There the Soviet
republics shine, with a rate of 4440 per 100,000 —
which is nearly as good (or bad) as Egypt’s 4220.
France, supposed to be the world’s shocking example
of Marie Stoppery, isn’t; five European countries
have smaller figures, Sweden the smallest of all. As
for little Australians who miss coming through a
wedding ring, our figures are still neither very good
nor very bad; Ireland’s are three times better,
Hungary’s three times worse.
Last year one of the new arrivals had 19 brothers
and sisters, living or dead ; another had 18, four had
16 and 12 had 15; so the births and deaths registrar
can still discover the large family oven if nobody
else can. Talking about the registrar, he gets far
more to do than lie used to; in 1920 only 4 per cent,
of the weddings took place in his office, now he
blesses 9 per cent, of them. Some of the parties
didn’t have much time to lose. One bride was
80 and one bridegroom 90.
HOW WE BEAT THE BOLSHIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘l’m one of the young fellows who belong to the
New Guard,’ said Thomas Henley, M.L.A., who is
rising 72; ‘and I’ll tell you this. If it comes to it,
I’ll shoot, too.’ ”
The Reds have riz, as we said they would
To a heedless and shiftless race;
They’ve wrested the Transport Trust from
Goode
And occupy Martin-place.
Their flag advancing with shouts they greet.
The city is theirs—but no;
For a force that never would brook defeat,
The loyal lads of Macquarie-street,
Now into action go.
They are stricken in years, it may be said;
They are thick in the wind, perhaps;
But terror seizes on every Red
At the sight of those dauntless chaps.
A copy of “Hansard” held by each.
Their way through the foe they hack.
Not shells but Henley’s aspirates screech,
And the roar of bursting parts of speech
Cows the rebels, reeling back.
Who is that snipiilg away like fun
From the top of the Union Bank?
It’s Ernie Farrar, the son of a gun,
And the Reds fall, rank by rank.
Who raises that fierce, triumphant shout
As into the fray he comes?
It’s Dr. Arthur, dealing it out
With his terrible apple bombs.
And Reggie Weaver, ink on his hand,
And Alphabetical Reid
Like lions bound on the rebel band.
Against such champions who can stand?
Not runts of the Bolshie breed.
The men who carried St. Quentin’s height
Were warriors. I’ll allow.
Chauvel’s brown fellows could also fight;
But where is their glory now?
Your Murrays and Jackas and all the rest
May hide their diminished heads,
Since Burwood’s pride, with unbuttoned
vest.
And his heroes, battling breast to breast,
Preserved us all from the Reds.
N.s.w.
WODGIL.


“Hamer”: The N.S.W. State lottery
employs a boy who got his job by sheer
persistence. Sooled off the premises with
the information that boys were not
wanted, he waited outside for the arrival of
W. H. Whiddon himself; but Whiddon was
too busy to notice him. The youngster was
on the spot again next day, and, intercepting
Whiddon, unfolded a tale of how he had set
his heart on a job in the lottery, his father
being out of work, his mother ill. Speaking
continually and dancing almost on the direc-
tor’s toes, lie found himself inside the build-
ing. “But I can’t find any work for a boy
here,” said Whiddon. “But I can,” returned
the youth. “Let me start finding it to-day.”
His persistence won, and his boss hasn’t
regretted it.
* * * #
“Tuart”: “If I see a man breaking into
my house by night,” said a Judge of the
King’s Bench Division, quoted by “D.” (B.
16/9/’3l), “I am justified in taking my gun
and shooting him dead.” I wish “D.” could
impress this legal truth on the minds of func-
tionaries like the N.S.W. coroner who com-
mitted a Digger-storekeeper for trial for
shooting a burglar. A small gang had
broken into the store in the dead of night
and had been disturbed by neighbors, one
man being grabbed. The proprietor, who
lived a little distance away and had rushed
up with a rifle, spotted a member of the
gang about to get away and ordered him
to stand. Receiving no answer, he fired,
and the housebreaker fell dead. The Coro-
ner said he had no right to fire, and pro-
NOT ALL BULL’S-EYES.
“Sorry to have kept you waiting, pet. I was so late dressing I just had to throw my
things at myself.”
“Yes—and I think you missed with a few of them.”
posed to have him tried for manslaughter;
but the Crown Law Department very pro-
perly refused to place him in the dock. In
Elsternwick, Melbourne, two or three weeks
later a ruffian who had tried to force a
front window of a house in which a woman
was sitting alone pulled a pistol on the un-
armed neighbor (also a returned soldier)
who intercepted him, and shot the brave fel-
low dead in the presence of his two sisters,
These days property-owners have few rights
left ; their right to protect their lives and
possessions when, the same are imperilled
must be jealously preserved.
•I* $ H*
“Pub. Ex.” : According to a cable, “Gandhi,
asked by a Customs official if he had
anything to declare, said humbly, ‘No-
thing but a bowl of goat’s milk and
three spinning-wheels.’ ’’ And he has
taken a room in Houndsditch at a penny a
day, though the people he came to meet work
in the West End, and he refuses to wear any-
thing but a loincloth. The urge is similar
to that which causes a profiteer to skite
about his money, but it shows a much better
understanding of publicity values. Gandhi
is the only prominent revolutionary in the
world’s history who hasn’t written a notable
book, or said or done a memorable thing.
The only messages he has delivered which
have penetrated the public mind have had to
do with goats and the like, and his activities
have led to nothing but the assassination of
two or three whites, and the shooting or gaol-
ing of a few natives. Yet he is better known
than Marx, Wolfe Tone, Garibaldi, Kos-
ciusko or even Lenin, whom nine people out
of ten can’t tell from Trotsky in pictures to
this day. and he has brought it off almost
entirely by sitting in front of movie cameras
more or less naked, and bragging humbly of
his ascetic habits. Many a Caucasian pub-
licity hound who thought he knew all about
the game must be kicking himself. Even
now a popular novelist could probably attract
more attention, and sell heaps more books,
by turning Mahatma than by getting his
works barred for indecency in England.
* * * *
“Uncle Sydney”: Reading about the wee
baby boas at Sydney’s Taronga Park Zoo
reminds me of an incident
that happened when Cis-
neros the Magnificent was
in Sydney with the Wil-
li amson-Mclba Opera Co.
of 1911. Madame had just
finished her engagement,
and was in the N.D.L.
shipping office, getting her
ticket for Paris to fulfil an
engagement there. When
told the amount of the
fare, she, opening her
handbag, began to turn it
out to get to her purse at
the bottom. She had
already placed several
articles on the counter, the
last thing before her purse
was found being a small
pet snake; this she deposited on the
counter with the other articles in front of
a girl typist. There were two sudden exits
—the girl fainted; the booking-clerk bolted.
* * *
“lan J”: “Country Ped” (B. 2/9/’3l) in
his remarks about the superiority of the
Mallee kid repeats a statement winch once
got Vic. school-inspector Henderson into hot
water when he made it officially; but Hen-
derson attributed the dulness of cow-country
children to too much work, not too little sun-
light. If one who has deserted pedagogy for
pigs is allowed to butt in. I think they are
both astray as to reasons, and that the dif-
ference itself is more apparent than real. I
have found the children on a new goldfield
distinctly above the average; this applied to
youngsters from overseas as well as from all
parts of Australia and M.L., and there was
little to choose between them. They were
the children of adventurous parents who had
the gambling instinct well developed. This
spirit helps children to appear brighter than
DOES CONSCIENCE ALWAYS KNOW?
MOTHER: “Now, Hector, that was very naughty of you. Didn’t your conscience tell
you not to do it?”
HECTOR: “Yes, Mummy; but you told me not to believe all I hear about people.”
they really are, for they will always chance
an answer where the plodder hesitates because
he is not sure. The Mallee man is of much
the same type as the goldfielder, and his chil-
dren follow suit; whereas the dairy-farmer of
the heavily-timbered south and his offspring
are of the slow and sure breed. It is all a
matter of heredity. If “Country Fed.” were
right the British would be inferior to the
Mediterranean races, but facts don’t point
that way
m« * *
“Oran”- A Ma State schoolmaster noted
for the breadth of his vocabulary had a set-
back the other day. He had begun the first
afternoon lesson when the door opened and
half a dozen late-comers filed in. With a
roar he turned upon them, lashed them
vocally, gave the foremost lad a cuff over
the ear, and bade them get to their places
without further delay. _ Instead of obeying,
the youth who had received the cuff produced
a small roll of paper, and in the first pause
in the master s eloquence began to _ read
a eulogy of that individual as enthusiastic
m its way as his tirade. Another lad stepped
forward and offered a set of books as a
piesent from the class, it being youi bi t
day. sir, he said. A quite overcome dominie
mumbled his thanks. ___ #
~ . . .
Lex : Sydney papers have been exclaim-
mg about Sir John Simons mammoth
retainer from Mr. Lang of at least 1000
guineas. Its a fleabite—so much so that
it looks as if Simon has slipped as a result
of his recent retirement. Sir Leslie Scott,
Iv.C., got 00,000 guineas from the Indian
States in the Statutory .Commission matter
(with “refreshers” he earned over £70,000),
and Barrington Ward, Iv.C., asked and re-
ceived 10,000 guineas for a mere murder
defence—a millionaire Bagdad merchant was
the accused. Such figures, by the way, einpha-
sise the inadequacy of the King’s Bench
Division Judges’ pay. When their salaries
were fixed in the eighteenth century
they attracted the best brains of the Bar.
Now they don’t. Since taxes and the cost of
living started to soar, few leaders can afford
to accept Judgeships. It is the same in
N. S. Wales, where Judges’ salaries were
fixed when living cost men of their class
about a third of what it does now.
* * * *
From an artist on his travels:—
Recently I batched for a few weeks with an artist
pal in Johannesburg. The menage consisted of my
host, myself and a huge Zulu “boy” of terrifying
appearance. “Charley” did all the work for £4
per month and his keep. The latter consisted chiefly
of mealie meal (ground-up maize). And I dis-
covered that Charley was considered to be on a good
wicket because he get £1 a month above the
recognised wage for houseboys. Another Charley
and he held the job in shifts of nine months, one
going back to the kraal in the bush while the other
worked the shift.
All his work was faultlessly done, but it was appa-
rent that he hated it, and one sensed that he secretly
despised himself for doing it. One day I asked,
“Do you like this work, Charley?” Caught off his
guard, he threw his hands up and almost shouted,
“No, baas, no !” Then followed a long and involved
explanation, from which I presently managed to
discover that when he went back to the kraal the
boys who always “stayed bush” called him “coward”
because, he did women’s work. Naturally I asked,
“Why do you do it, then?” Ensued another long
explanation, from which finally emerged the fact that
he wanted the money for lobola (payment) for
two more wives. Already he had earned two wives,
and if he earned two more his position, in the tribe
would not only be a strong one socially, but econo-
mieally he would be independent. With four wives
he need never do any more work. The wives would
grow the mealies and do all things for his comfort
and dignity, as became the wives of a “big man” in
the tribe.
Having, with much travail to both of us, won
to the elucidation of all this, I asked, “How much
lobola do you pay for a wife, Charley?” This time
the men tal and linguistic struggle yielded up the
fact that it was all a matter of fatness, the standard
of desirability, and consequently value, being estab-
fished in terms of avoirdupois. If she was very fat,
and her father a shrewd bargainer, he d probably
hav e to go as high as £lO and 10 head of cattle,
On the other hand, ‘stores’ could be picked up
for a song on any bargain counter,
* * * *
Coral ». Thursday Island’s Anglican
ca th e dral, which was erected to commemo-
raj-e the sinking of the London-bound Quetta
one bright moonlight night in 1890, with the
j osg 0 j ] ia ],f j ier passengers, has recently had
presell ted to it a big enlargement of a photo-
graph of the ill-fated steamer proceeding on
tier course with sails set. The picture will
g 0 on t be wa n s j n a frame made of teak
ta j ien f rom the Quetta’s wlieelhouse, and will
keep company with the old flag, lifebuoy,
riding lamp and other relics which are con-
spicuous ob j ec ts in the interesting building,
be church still lacks the tower and spire
formed part of the original plan, but
a f un( j j ias b een formed for the purpose, and
ldie au thorities have hopes that it will grow
to the requisite size.
* *
*
“M.D.” : Some patients have odd habits,
A young Jew who came to me for prolonged
and painful surgical treatment would always
go straight to the wash-hand basin and apply
soap and hot water to his hands. And he in-
variably called for a clean towel. After I
had observed this ritual a few times I asked
for an explanation. “A Jew always washes
his hands before having a meal,” was the
grave reply. “But you don’t come here for
a meal,” I said. Of course he didn’t attempt
to dispute that fact, but the observation had
no effect on the ingrained habit,
* * * *
, .
Nordic : Australia is the only country
here southerners aren’t despised. Southern
Europeans, South Americans Americans ot
le ' s , 01l : l< , lll \ , p'.,.
“ oral and Physical slackness. Prussians
dcs P{ se Bavarians and Milanese Neapolitans
the U.lv Yorkslnremen sneer at native,
the southern counties ; Scots sneer at
Yorkshiremen Highlandeis a, 116 ® 1 at L
landers ; and m Ireland Belfast sneeis
Dublin. How different here, where all Au
tralia. looks down on the Northern Territoiy,
with its population of 1 to 100,000 acies, ana
particularly on Darwin ! Melbourne has a
powerful superiority complex in regard to
Sydney,, though it is smaller, poorer and no-
thing like So good-looking. It S a mattei
of climate. “You cant interest me in any
proposition in a place where it doesn t
snow,” said J. J. Hill, the U.S.A. railway
magnate. The contempt of M.D. for Aus-
tralia is terrific. But, then, in addition to
being cold-countrymen, the Mao.rilanders are
islanders, and the scorn of such privileged
beings for the barbarians of the adjoining
mainland has been a conspicuous social
phenomenon since the Cretans first realised
there was such a land as Hellas.
VERDICT REVERSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Pete was wiser than most men;
He knew the Ivor Id for what it's worth;
And, through the years, I hear again
His judgment on this judging earth:
They talk of chaps who have gone down
Because o’ what they never got;
Because it seemed that Fortune’s frown
Was always their confounded lot.
Per’aps some girl gave them their checks,
And then like fools they did their blocks ;
And ended old and battered wrecks
From crashing on misfortune’s rocks.
While people said: “It serves ’em right.
They only have themselves to blame.
Why didn’t they put up a fight
To save their bacon and their name?”
But what o’ those who have had all
That any mortal man could get,
And rode the high horse to a fall,
And finished in the slough of debt?
The chaps who have had every chance ;
The ones whom Fortune seemed to chase,
Who made their piles o’ lucre dance
Before she turned an icy face?
What do they say o’ men like that?
Why, bless me, only, “Ain’t that crool?
He don’t deserve to flog the cat.
He’s not a sinner—jist a fool.”
But I think, when they reach the bar
And have to face the best or worst,
The Lord, a better Judge by far,
Will see the verdict is reversed.
VICTOEIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.


Two companions for leisure
hours.
The “ BOLBEC ”
BRIAR PIPE.
A handsome dark Briar, that has a
fine polish. Unmounted, made in
England.
In all shapes, only
36
“ BOLBEC ” TOBACCO.
A very special mixture, exclusive to
Pike Brothers. English Sliced Plug,
very carefully packed to retain its
Factory Freshness.
Per 2oz. tin
3/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The "Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR SEPTEMBER NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
F
MONKDMI
IYB LIME JUICE
Ready to take you on!
The tennis girl knows a thing or two; she
has found that ‘Montserrat’ Lime Juice
keeps her fit. It is Nature’s healthy drink —
strong in vitamins.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING GROCERS.
Bottled by Schweppes, Ltd., Sydney,
by arrangement with
Evans, Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd.
SCHWEPPES LIME JUICE CORDIAL
is made exclusively from Montserrat.
FI
"t-FRUIT Jtf C
, 0
PERSONAL
ITEMS
R. D. Meagher, dead at 65, might have
been a great criminal defender but for his
early slip. He got the wife-poisoner Dean
acquitted by throwing suspicion on another.
Salomons, Q.C., was congratulating him.
Unable to contain his pride the young soli-
citor said, “I’ll tell you something under
the veil of professional secrecy: he was
guilty.” Salomons went in a distracted state
to Jack Want, who advised an exposure.
Dean got a long term for perjury (he
couldn’t be retried for attempted murder,
being “autrefois acquit”), and Meagher re-
mained off the rolls till 1920, when he was
restored by Act of Parliament. He was that
rare blend a completely humorless man who
appreciated a good joke. A celebrated effort
in the field of bathos was “My heart burst-
ing with anguish, I boarded a Bondi tram” ;
but he was responsible for others almost
equally picturesque. He made a first-class
Speaker of. the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly; he
knew as milch of procedure as Danny Levy,
and had a more impressive presence and
voice. His oratory, which was what a
former Sydney generation knew as Demos-
thenic—it was studded with polysyllables
and sonorous quotations—was responsible
for much of his success with election crowds
and criminal juries.
Luxton, M.L.A., has a little under seven
weeks to run before completing three years
as Lud Mayor of Melbourne, and there is
no sign of the knighthood which predeces-
sors who served for the same period col-
lected. Hogan’s Labor Ministry does not
believe in titles. Whether anybody will
whisper a timely word in the ear of J. H.
Thomas, Sec. for the Dominions, re-
mains to be seen: Thomas would not now
be afraid of offending Brother Hogan, if
he ever was. The Lud Mayoralty was
created without the Vic. Government being
consulted, and the then Premier uttered a
few words of remonstrance.
While the Royal Agricultural Society’s
finance committee was settling the last details
of its part of the big job of running
the Spring Show in Melbourne, Henry
Schweiger, the manager, complained of giddi-
ness, and was going outside for a breath of
air when he collapsed and was presently
taken to hospital, suffering from a stroke.
Ho has been very overwrought of late; the
LOUIS MONOD, secretary of the
Melbourne Show.
failure of the Primary Producers’ Bank, of
which he was chairman, worried him tremen-
dously. Louis Monod, who, as sec. of the
society, has been Mr. Schweiger’s lieutenant,
took over his chief’s work.
Elsdon Best, Maoriland’s greatest autho-
rity on Maori language and customs, is dead
at 75. As a young man he spent some years
in the U.S.A., and on returning to his native
land took up sawmilling. Then he joined
the Lands Department, his work for which
brought him for many years into close touch
with the most primitive Maori tribes; after-
wards he was on the staff of the Dominion
Museum. Best shared with James Cowan
and one or two other white men a knowledge
of the mysteries of toliungaism. As his writ-
ings show, he loved and understood the
Maoris, and his kindness was repaid by
complete confidence.
Ray Parer, the late Mclntosh’s partner
in what in some respects was the most won-
derful of all flights from England to Aus-
tralia, had the bad luck to lose a Fokker
machine in a crash at Salamoa a few months
ago. He has been assembling another at
Port Moresby; Norman Downham, a Hand-
ley Page man, is his engineer. The ’plane
was used for night flying on the Brussells-
Antwerp-Croydon route. It carries nine pas-
sengers and lifts 31801 b profitable load
on the golden highlands of the Mandated
Territory.
John Saxon Barton, who was for some years
stipendiary magistrate at Wanganui (M.L.),
made for him-
self on the
Bench a repu-
tation as a dip-
lomatist and
displayed a
shrewd know-
ledge of busi-
ness. Wh e n
ILawkes Bay
was turned up-
side down by
the ’quake the
G o v e r nment
appointed a com-
mission to> take
charge of the
disorganised dis-
trict and select-
ed Barton as
chairman. Ever
since then his
life has been a
daily round of
settling dis-
putes, adjudi-
cating on relief
claims, apply-
in g discipline
and supervising
the work of re-
c o n s traction.
He has had the
opportunity of
making a score
of bad mistakes
every week, but
there have been
no complaints,
and the work of
the commission
has proceeded
so quietly and
efficiently that
Napier citizens
not brought
directly in con-
tact with it
have forgotten
that it ever
existed. Barton
will return to
J. S. BARTON, the man
who has been cleaning
up after an earthquake.
his court with a wealth of new experience
that should make him more useful on the
Bench than ever.
iColonel F. W. G. Annand, Brisbane’s
Town Clerk, who has resigned, is a York-
shireman of Scottish descent who was
brought to Queensland young. Educated at
Toowoomba Grammar, he entered commer-
cial life after a short spell of \jackerooing,
and was manager of the Brisbane Perma-
nent Building and Banking Co. (a job to
which he is going back) before he took over
the municipal office in 1925. A keen peace-
time soldier, Annand went overseas in 1914
with the Light H'orse field and signal engin-
eers, and later organised and commanded in
France the Ist Pioneer Battalion. He served
for the duration, was five times mentioned in
dispatches, and won the D.S.O. and bar. The
only thing known against him is that he has
written verse.
Robert A. Loughnan, doyen of Maoriland
journalists, has had his 90th birthday, which
was celebrated at a Rotary luncheon. The
veteran no longer sees a paper to press every
morning (his last full-time job was the
associate-editorship of the old Maoriland
“Times”), but looks good enough for a cen-
tury. In other days he was on the “S. M.
Herald,” and he has written a biography of
the late Joseph Ward.
Charles Wyndham Bundock, son of AVel-
lington Cochrane Bundock and nephew of
E. D. Ogilvie, M.L.C., of Yugilbar Castle,
Clarence River (N.S.W.), is no more. He
was born at Wyangaree 73 years ago', and
died on the famous old station, which was
taken up by Ogilvie in 1838 and bought by
Bundock’s father a couple of years later. In
those days flour was unobtainable, and the
family lived on crushed and boiled maize
and other products of their own growing.
Wyndham’s mother made the family cloth-
ing and educated him and his brothers and
sisters, the father teaching them Latin, often
while the old gentleman was mending
saddlery or pruning grape-vines—everyone
made his own wine then. At the same time
Wyndham and his brothers picked up much
of the language of the local blacks, and one
•of the sisters, known to everybody as “Miss
Mary,” afterwards Mrs. Murray-Prior (Mrs.
Campbell Praed, the novelist, was her
daughter), collected mementoes of them,
many of which are in Sydney Museum. The
old squatter was buried in the little private
cemetery at Wyangaree, where sleep his
mother and father, brothers Frank, Harry
and Edward, and sisters Alice and Mrs.
Murray-Prior.
Tom Roberts, the artist, returning from
Europe in the ’nineties, headed a little school
which pitched its camp at Eaglemo'nt, seven
miles out of Melbourne, and later moved into
two quaint cottages on the estate of the De
Castellos. For years these cottages were re-
garded as a sort of shrine; but long before
Roberts died all their glory had departed.
One was allowed to' fall into ruin; the
other, little better, is occupied by a Chinese
market-gardener, albeit an honest artist in
his medium as Roberts was in his.
R. Renzow, who will be a centenarian if
he lives until January 2, has been adjudged
the oldest Vie. ex-teacher above ground.
Runners-up are T. Marshall, who first saw
light in 1841, W. Spring (1843), G. Mitchell
(1844), W. T. Lewis, C. C. Phillips, J.
Thiele and A. H. Thurlby (IS4SJ and R.
Oamm (1847).
Major-General Bruehe, who will succeed
Coxen as Chief of the General Staff, though
he may have to wait a bit, was born in
Melbourne in 1873, and was educated at
Scotch College and Melbourne Uni. He
joined the permanent gunners in 189 S, and
soon after got his first sniff of cordite in
the South African War. Service in the
long argument with Fritz followed, and later
he handled the job of Adjutant-General,
going from that to London, where until
recently he was Australian representative
on the Imperial General Staff. At present
Bruehe is commandant of the Royal Mili-
tary College at Paddington. He married a
sister of High Commissioner Ryrie, and has
a curious hobby for a dashing militaire —
that of working in tortoise-shell, at which
he is an expert.
Johnny Gonsalves, N.S.W.’s Clerk of the
Peace, who is retiring next month, has been
a familiar figure in the King-Phillip-street
area for a quarter of a century. H'e is almost
the last representative of a school that was
common in Sydney when such racy legal
wits as Jack Want and Jim Gannon were
alive. Like them, he can make personal and
topical jokes of a daring nature in solemn
places without giving offence. Mimicry is
the strong suit of this small, sallow jester
with the mobile actor’s face. He has repro-
duced everybody of note in and about the
courts. His vignette of the late Judge
Docker in the act of passing sentence is
famous, but all his work in that line is
incomparable. Gonsalves has never let his
social proclivities interfere with his job, as
the public reception which he is being given
at the Town Hall testifies.
From Edwin Geach: —
Alfred West, who is returning to Australia (B.
9/9/’3l), is not a brother of the late T. J. West, of
West’s Pictures; there is no relationship other than
the name. Alfred West arrived in Australia ahead
of T.J., and toured the country with an entertain-
ment known as “West’s Own Navy,” with Snazelle,
the comedian, as an added attraction. T. J. West
came from Scotland to Dunedin, then to the Palace,
Sydney, under my management, with an entertain-
ment entitled “West’s Pictures, with the Brescians.”
Tom Henley let it be known the other day
that if there was any fighting to be done to
preserve the Con’stution, he and his gun
would be found with the New Guard. When
Tom made his next appearance in the N.S.W.
Assembly, there was a general scuttle for
TOM HENLEY joins the New Guard.
cover from the Government benches; and one
ribald member demanded of the Speaker that
the combustible member should be searched
for firearms. Tom’s temper was unruffled
as usual —which partly explains why the
old fire-eater can’t keep an enemy even if
he makes one.
Another Queensland shepherd king, W. J.
Hooper, has gone to look for new country.
Queensland-born, he learned his business
under his father at Hawkwood, and later
with a brother-in-law bought Merriwa run
on the N.S.W. border, near Goondiwindi;
later still he acquired properties in the St.
George district, and Talwood and other
stations on the Barcoo. Hooper was a keen
racing man, running horses in the country
and in Brisbane, where he was a member of
the Q.T.O. committee for years. He was
76 at the end.
WILLIAM VICARS, one of the new direc-
tors of the N. S. Wales Government
Savings Bank.
A link with Bob Fitzsimmons snapped
when old Hugh Cuthbertson died at Timaru
(M.L.) the other day. It was in Hugh’s
smithy that Bob developed the powerful
muscles which enabled him to punch his
way to fame in later years.
W. M. Robins is to retire on December
31 from the job of deputy-master of Mel-
bourne’s Mint; he will complete 44 years’
service on that day. He began as junior
clerk and studied at the University after
becoming an Imperial civil servant, graduat-
ing as a B.A. in 1891. His wife is con-
spicuous for philanthropic and social work.
Three of the four lionoraries in Vic.. Labor
Ministry have the fancy first names:
Esmond Kiernan, Reginald Pollard and
Gordon Webber. Premier Hogan was
christened Edmond, but is generally known
as Ned. Of the other eight Cabineteers
there are three Jacks —Lemmon, Cain and
Jones; one Tom (Tunnecliffe), one Bill
(Slater), one Harry (Bailey), one Bob
(Williams) and one Dan (better known as
Danny) McNamara. But nobody calls Jones
Jack, and he is not keen on the Percy that
follows it; so his friends usually compromise
with “Jaypee.”
Major-General Coxen, Chief of the General
Staff, will be retired a year before his time
unless it is decided to exempt him from the
Scullin Government’s ukase that furlough
due to officers must be taken before they reach
the retiring age. Coxen, who is only 09, is
owed over 10 months’ leave. His father was a
Brisbane man, but the son happened to be
born in England. Like his friend Brudenell
White, he was educated in Queensland, and
has the mannerisms of a British officer. He
embarked in July, 1915, in command of the
Siege Brigade, and was G.O.C. the
R.A.A. Corps by 1917. The A.F.A knew the
trim, mustaclied lightweight as well as did
his own corps; he was one of the most fre-
quent and painstaking inspectors in Flanders.
He became a member of the Military Board
in ’25 and was promoted to his present rank
two years later.
The shearers and bush-workers in the
Barwon (N.S.W.) electorate who picked
Laborite Wilfred Ratcliffe for their M.L.A.
last year can hardly have been dazzled by
liis eloquence, for the present Leg. Assembly
holds no member more sparing of words.
When he stood for Botany unsuccessfully in
1920, he left most of the spruiking to his
dad, an “Evening News” compositor. Two
years later he won one of the five seats by
squeezing out fellow-Laborite Simon Hickey
with the help of his tramway cobbers—he
was a tramwayman himself. He represented
Botany until 1927, and, with the reversion to
single'seats, secured Alexandria for the next
three years. The next redistribution left
him scatless, but after he had failed to win
the Labor selection for Redfern against Billy
McKell, Lang stepped in and .secured his
endorsement by the Labor executive for Bar-
won. Lang probably felt that he Owed him
something, for at the time of the Mutch-
Loughlin rebellion Ratcliffe supported his
chief, and held the Works and Railways
portfolio in the short-lived second Lang
Scabinet. Unless another seat is found for
him Ratcliffe is likely to disappear at the
next elections ; he had a hard battle in 1930
when there was such a tremendous swing
to Labor.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co.
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
41,388
1929.. 549.931 10 p.c. 10 p.c.= 443,322*106,609 147,997
Share premiums, £376 . . . . . . 148,373
1930.. 320.700 10 p.c. 6 p.e.= 318,939 1,761 150,134
1931.. 319 10 „ 2J„ „ 187,141 138,312
"Includes £138,301 paid on old Perdriau co.’s
shares.
When the tide began to run out shortly after
the merger of about three years ago, the
organisation was overhauled, savings were
made in the buying, manufacturing and mar-
keting sections of the undertaking, and the
co. branched out from its main business of
tyre manufacture with a measure of success.
Nevertheless, turnover got a nasty jolt last
year; imports of crude rubber into the Com-
monwealth (£335,016) were £508,426 lighter
than for the preceding 12 months. Certainly
there was a slip of 50 p.c. in the spot price
for crude (now 3.1 d.) ; and on heavy for-
ward purchases, which are inevitable in
a concern of this size, that means the
evaporation of a lot of profit. More-
over, the spring in exchange bumped up
costs, selling prices were reduced, the Barnet
Glass Co., whose ords. were bought by
Dunlop-Perdriau for 325. apiece, knocked a
point off its div., reducing it to 5 p.c., and
casualties in the motor and auxiliary trades
made the debts question perplexing.
So from one cause and another gross profits
(£709,385) fell away no less than £357,602.
Exes. (£534,066) were reduced by £212,221,
despite the growth in rates and other taxes.
Thus enough remained to pay the pref. div.
(£93,000) and then show 2.1 p.c. on ord.
capital (£3,765,655) as against 6 p.c. and
12.1 p.c. for the two preceding years. No
interim div. was paid, but a final distribu-
tion of 2-J p.c. was made, though, visibly,
reserves were tapped for £11,822 to do it.
Perhaps contingencies had been provided for
more liberally than usual; a lot will depend
upon whether the provision turns out to be
adequate.
Finances are comfortable :
Capital: 1929 ' 199 0- 1931.
Ord £3,764,151 £3,765,655 £3,765,655
Pref 930,000 930,000 930,000
Liabilities. . . . 504,612 287,795 218,741
Freeholds, etc. . . 1,138,687 1,117,922 1,111,807
Plant, etc. . . 1,147,026 1,181,039 1,168,671
Stocks . . . . 1,433,639 1,424,636 1,019,415
Debtors . . . . 515,384 472,439 370,374
Cash . . . . 154,201 1,229 41,715
Investments . . 29,163 26,847 412,178
Shares other cos.. . 1,046,052 1,068,940 1,069,190
Goodwill .. .. 354,377 354,377 354,377
The danger spots there are stocks, which
were reduced by £405,221 during the year,
and debtors’ balances, which were £102,065
lighter than at the close of accounts in 1930.
Most of the money thus made available was
invested outside the business, £385,331 being
added to “debentures, deposits and other
securities, £412,178” ; the cash holding was
strengthened by £40,486, and £69,054 was
snipped off the amount coming to sundry
creditors. Including stocks but not shares in
other cos., the more or less liquid surplus
(£1.624,941) was only £12,415 lighter than
at the previous balance. The share holdings
consist chiefly of Barnet Glass ords. and all
the scrip in the Dunlop Rubber Shoe Co.
What amount, if any, this latter concern con-
tributes to the pool is not mentioned.
As fer the current term, trading promises to
continue difficult; results will be governed
largely by the extent to which the plant can
be kept employed, which in turn will partly
depend upon the co.’s success in further
developing “other lines.” The market, which
does not expect an early lift in the div., prices
the, pound ords. at Bs. 6d. Allowing for the
div.. the return at that figure is 6.2 p.c. on
a 24 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible back-
ing' is 20s 9d., mainly plant, etc., worth
what it can earn. At 225. 6d. the 10 p.c.
cum. prefs. return 8.9 p.c.; they are covered
by £5 3s. lid. in net tangibles.
Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Co.
Broking and Trading Departments.
Bonuses
to To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.-44,353 8 p.c. = 21,316 14,490 8,547 14,006
Forfeited shares, £B2 .. . . .. 14,088
Added goodwill, £lOOO .. .. 13,088
1928.. 56,621 8 p.c. = 24,754 15,905 15,962 29,050
Forfeited shares, £B3 . . . . . . 29,133
1929.. 46,968 8 p.c. = 29,017 13,074 4,877 34,010
Drop in forfeited shares reserve, £l7. . 33.993
tune T' rom Insurance Dept., £2300 .. 36,293
1930*. . 9,261 Nil Nil 9,261 45,554
From Insurance Dept., £2981 .. 48,535
1931.. 25,343 5 p.c. = 18,922 4,362 2,059 50,594
This co-operative concern handles wool,
wheat, livestock, skins and produce, and
accepts agricultural insurance risks, etc., as
well. It set up in Sydney in 1917. and with
the assistance of well-established farmers’
organisations the business expanded rapidly.
Profits from all sections for the 11 years to
the close of accounts in 1929 aggregated
£439,235, of which £140,611 went to clients
in bonuses, and £183,896 was paid in divs.
Then prices collapsed, there was a sharp
contraction in net earnings and no bonuses
or divs. were paid in 1930. Last year, how-
ever, there was a spring of £25,572 in gross
profits (£241,837), notwithstanding the
further sag in prices and a shrinkage in 'the
quantity oLwool and livestock put under the
hammer. But the wheat harvest was nearly
double the previous year’s, and the co. re-
ceived over five times as much grain as it
did in 1930, mostly as agent for the voluntary
pool.
Wool, Wheat,
Bales. Sheep. Cattle. Bushels.
1928.. 130,742 533,195 32.967 1,465,000
1929.. 157,224 430,976 26,600 3,335,000
1930.. 160,142 593,455 27,880 3,179,000
1931.. 145,685 432,028 17,307 16,349,911
Though exes. (£216,494, including provision
for taxation) were £9489 heavier, enough
remained to make rebates of £4362, pay a
5 p.c. div. and send £2059 to reserves. in
the main section of the business, raising
them to £50,594 in excess of goodwill
(£27,692).
One of the outstanding features of the
accounts is the extent to which the co. has
gone into debt to assist its clients :
1927. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £266,457 £309,431 £378,091 £378,431
Mortgages .. 45,136 176,077 135,000 130,000
Overdraft .. • 161,113 185,721 177,708
Creditors, etc. 311,230 213,646 506,923* 157,928
Freeholds, etc. 243,997 440,490 467,396 463,800
Debtors .. 386,328 453,816 791,732 486,051
Stocks .. 40,736 45,753 23,903 9,650
Cash, etc. .. 30,992 29,864 36,140 25,040
•Includes rural credits.
The purchase in 1928 of Goldsbrough-Mort’s
old building at Circular Quay gave free-
holds, etc., a book value of £463,800 at June
30. This item alone was then only £29,182
short of capital and reserves in both depart-
ments combined. So to make advances with
a book value of £486,051, the board had gone
outside for £465,636; _ there was 18s. lid. of
borrowed money at risk in the business for
every 20s. belonging to shareholders. The
reductions of £305,681 in debtors’ balances
and of £348,995 in the amount coming to
sundry creditors were largely book entries
in connection with the previous year’s wheat
carryover. More or less liquids exceeded
liabilities by £55,105 when the books closed.
The whole position hinges on the ability
of debtor clients to stand up to their com-
mitments ; much depends on the size of the
contingency fund. Seasonal prospects are
bright enough, but the easily wool clip has
averaged only 6|d., which is claimed to be
below cost of production for many. As for
wheat, the area sown is estimated to be 40
p.c. less than last year’s, owing to excessive
rains; and large stocks, both here and over-
seas, continued shipments from the Russian
Black Sea ports, and financial difficulties in
Europe continue to press heavily on prices.
Still, the promised bonus of 6d. per bushel on
grain exported should help. A lot will
depend upon what relief producers get from
the present burden of costs.
Insurance Department.
The insurance section continues to be
profitable:—•
Other
Pre- In- To Re- Re-
April, miums. come. Losses. Exes, serves, serves.
£ £ £
1927.. 30,337 3682 17,288 11,482 5,249 34,408
1928.. 28,149 1758 7,296 11,468 11,143 45,551
1929.. 46,598 22,109 16,603 7,886 53,437
To General Dept., £2300 .. .. 51,137
June,
1930.. 50,626 2301 23,179 18,804 10,944 62,081
To General Dept., £2981 .. ~ 59,100
1931.. 36,458 2981 19,351 15,231 4,857 63,957
There was a sharp drop of £14,168 in last
year’s net premiums. Exes, made off with
41.8 p.c. of these as against 37.1, 35.6,
34.5 and 25.7 p.c. back to 1927. Reserves
are in excess of the amount usually con-
sidered adequate. »
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
f —Dividends ,
Pref. Towards
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
11,341
1922.. 16.284* 7,571 8713 2,628
Loss.
1923.. 1.380 4,008
1924.. 1,169 5,177
1925.. 934 6,111
Capital written off, £322.104.
To Re-
Profit. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 19,308 f 18.000 —. 1308 1,308
1927.. 36,041 36,000 41 1,349
Loss. Deficit.
1928.. 1,611 262
Profit. Reserves.
1929.. 53,184 52,000 1184 922
1930.. 39,943 40,000 865
1931.. 35,607 36,000 472
•Three months. tSix months.
Only £6231 of this £35,607 of profit
was earned according to the accounts.
At June 30 all but £l3 of the co.’s funds
(£500,999), together with £l2ll coming to
creditors, etc., was invested in two subsi-
diaries, Lincoln Spinning Mills and Lincoln
Knitting Mills. During the 12 months
there was a scramble for ready cash
in the trade, and these two operating
concerns, in common with their competitors,
marketed many lines at cut rates, while
primage and other taxes made outgoings
difficult to curb. So, after the pair
had taken stocks into account at £108,453
below the 1930 figure, there was a contrac-
tion of £50,953 in their combined gross
profits:—•
Two Operating Mills’ Results.
IQOQ 109 Q IQQA 1031
Gross profit . . £116,398 £135,341 £131,037 £80,084
Exes 79,498 79,216 84,497 73,460
Net profit .. £36,900 £56,125 £46,540 £6,624
Divs. paid .. 55,000 40,500 36,000
Exes., including provision for taxation, were
thus pulled back £11,037, leaving the net
result £39,916 short of the previous year’s at
£6624. Still £36.000 was paid in divs., re-
ducing the aggregate reserves to £20,014 at
June 30.
Thus, after paying its own modest exes.
(£393) the holding co. was able to exhibit
£35,607 of profit, and hand its own prefs.
9 p.c., of which 4 p.c. covered arrears to
.Tune 30. 1930. At next balancing date
there will be £52.000 coming to the prefs.;
but the co.’s performances and the imme-
diate outlook are such that the arrears may
increase before they are reduced.
The financial structure and other things
are shown in the next comparison of com-
bined balance-sheet figures of the two subsi-
diaries :—•
Operating Cos.’ Combined Balance-sheet.
1926. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £469,122 £469,122 £469,122 £469,122
Advances, etc. 32,284 45,509 33,448 33,076
Trade creditors 147,533 195,206 196,020 72,518
Freeholds . . 98,348 94,575 93,269 91,101
Plant .. 225,267 218,263 205,724 191,402
Stocks .. 208,186 268,813 310,171 201.718
Book debts, etc. 121,103 171,537 138,822 110,510
The reduction in stocks, debtors’ balances
and the allowance for depreciation enabled
£123,508 to be lopped off the amount com-
ing to trade creditors. Leaving advances,
which are inter-company debts, out of the
reckoning, the slip in the more or less liquid
surplus (£239,710. including stocks) was
£13,257. Much depends upon the sound-
ness of the book debts, on the figure at which
stocks appear, and, of course, upon the effi-
ciency of the plant.
It has been a disappointing venture from
the start. After the fire in 1925 £BO,OOO of
goodwill and £27,241 of accumulated losses
were rooted out of the books, and plant was
written down to what the board reckoned
it was worth; the accounts were squared
by striking 16s. (£322,104) off the ord. capi-
tal, reducing it to £80,527 in 4s. shares. Net
earnings have not since been good enough
to keep up full payments to the prefs. There
are 400,000 of them fully-paid to £1; they
fetch 15s. 6d. on the market: the backing
is 265. Id. in net tangibles.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1925.. 65,396 10 p.c. = 55,000 10,396 51,192
1926.. 70,328 10 „ „ 55,000 15,328 66,520
1927.. 78,715 10 „ „ 55,000 ( g . Jg 7 , gQg
Taxation reserve, £15,236..) 5,4 ' y
1928.. 75,001 10 p.c. = 55,000 20,001 95,000
1929.. 75,000 10 „ „ 55,000 20,000 115,000
1930.. 65,000 10 „ „ 55,000 10,000 125,000
1931.. 35,750 64,, ~ 35,750 125,000
During the year the extension to the Valley
corner of the premises was completed, new
departments were opened and more people
came to the store. Further, the manage-
ment bought Barnes’s stock in Brisbane and
part of the stock of Collier and Son, Syd-
ney; but, there being much less money
about, profit margins narrowed and turn-
over got lighter. So, after taking stocks
into account at £20,011 less than at the
previous balance, there was a slip of £59,875
in gross profits
1925. 1928 1930 1931.
Gross profit. . £225,630- £261,380 £245,361 £185,486
Exes 160,234 186,379 180,361 139,111
Net profit.. £65,396 £75,001 £65,000 £46,375
Exes, were pulled back £41,250, despite
larger premises and the growth in the over-
draft. But the previous year’s allowance
for taxation was £2956 short of requirements,
and £7669 was set aside to meet the next
bill when it arrives, leaving exactly suffi-
cient to cover the reduced dividend charge
of 6£ p.c. In the preceding term the profit
was 11.8 p.c. on capital as against 13.6,
13.6, 14.3 and 12.7 p.c. back to 1926. A
steady 10 p.c. had been paid since the
public became interested about 10 years ago.
The extension of the premises added
£113,214 to the book value of freehold and
plant■
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft .. 17,633 3,287 7,817 117,317
Creditors .. 81,404 58,106 50,153 40,517
Freehold & plant 333,069 327,500 324,500 437,714
Stocks .. .. 272,282 248,755 296,908 276,897
Book debts .. 120,724 123,742 109,710 117,526
Cash invest-
ments, etc. 1,655 72,063 40,665 24,865
To finance the outlay, knock £9636 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors and carry
a further £7816 of book debts, the board
went to its bankers for an extra £109,500,
and drew upon cash and investments for
£15,800. Altogether the more or less liquid
surplus (£261,454, including stocks) slipped
£127,859.
The immediate outlook is very uncertain.
The price of this season’s wool clip has been
disappointing, and the National Debt Con-
version, growth of taxation and unemploy-
ment, and the suspension of payments by
the Federal Deposit and Primary Producers’
banks all tend to restrict spending, while
overhead is very stubborn. All that can
be said definitely is that the management
appears to be alive to the problems.
On the market the pound shares -are offered
at 18s.; they fetched 225. 6d. a year ago.
The return at the lower figure is 6.7 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. div. basis; the backing is 245. 6d.
in net tangibles.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 34,710 10 p.c. = 11,610 23,100 61,878
Premiums on new shares, £697 .. 62,575
Assets written up, £63,000 . . 125,575
1922.. 29,155 124 p.c. = 16,054 13,101 138,676
Transferred to capital, £30,000 .. 108,676
1923.. 22,401 10 p.c. = 16,125) , ~,
Written off, £4400 .. ) 1>876 110 ’ 552
1924.. 23,044 10 p.c. = 16,219) _
Written off, £4400 .. f 2)425 112)97 ‘
1925.. 23,946 124 p.c. = 18,750 7 7aft 11Q „„
Written off, £4400 .. ) ' yo 11<5)77d
1926.. 20,608 10 p.c. = 15,000 7 „ nns -78 i
Written off, £2600 .. { 3 ’ ooB 116)781
1927.. 11,078 10 p.c. = 15,000 112,859
Taken from reserves, £9535 .. 103,324
1928.. 6,166 Nil 6,166 109,490
1929.. 12,382 Nil 7 119 072
Written off, £2BOO .. f 9,08 ~ 119)072
Written off shares in other cos.,
£16,700 102,372
1930.. 7,908 21 p.c. = 5,000 2,908 105,280
Written off shares in other cos.,
£lO,OOO 95,280
1931.. 13,016 33 p.c. = 7,500 5,516 100,796
Recent sickness in the figures is due mainly
to absence of divs. from Tasmanian Breweries
Pty., to which this co. and J. Boag and Son
transferred their beer-brewing plants, etc., for
scrip about nine years ago. Cascade re-
tained its freeholds, including brewery and
hotel properties, and restricted its own activi-
ties to rent-collecting and the manufacture
of cider, cordials, etc. Last year the board
claimed £11,476 of profit, but allowing for
reserve adjustments the figure w T as £1540
better than that, and a 9d. div. was paid,
making an average of 1) p.c. for the last
four years.
The proprietary began to feel the pinch
when opposition set up about half a dozen
years ago. A new Nathan plant was in-
stalled, but prices had to be cut to hold
business, and nothing has been passed on
to the holding, cos. for the last four years.
But the opposition concern having got into
deep water, Tasmanian Breweries recently
reported a revival of its local and export
trade.
Still, during the last term Cascade lopped
a further £lO,OOO off the book value of its
goodwill holding in the proprietary, making
the total so written off since the amalgama-
tion £45,300, and reducing shares and deben-
tures in other cos. to £70.809 at June 30: —
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £186,223 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Mortgages and
deposits . . 69,461 132,631 130,399 129,124
Overdrafts, etc. 57,167 26,206 17,738 10,970
Freeholds, etc. 223,972 256,280 257,578 253,847
Stock and plant 21,072 113,241 110,797 111,281
Book debts, etc. 79,694 15,570 19,537 24,801
Cash and in-
vestments .. 7,288 318 322 312
Shares in other
cos 101,284 98,334 81,234 70,809
At the close of accounts book debts, cash,
etc., were £6172 in excess of the floating debt
(£18,941). But the weight of the debentures
(£103,644) and mortgage (£17,514) is press-
ing heavily on the attenuated earnings; it
was mainly to finance the purchase of new
plant for the proprietary that this debt was
piled up. Shareholders’ prospects depend
mainly upon the position in the beer-brewing
concern, over whose figures the curtain is
kept drawn.
The market prices the 21s. shares paid
to 20s. at 11s. 3d. The return at that figure
is 6.6 p.c. on a 3| p.c. div.; the backing is
30s. in net assets per pound of paid capital.
Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
f Dividends
Pref. Writ- Re-
July, Profits.(B p.c.) Ordinary. ten Off. serves.
£££ * £ £
1920.. 28.630.2000 124 p.c. = 17,706 3000 19,598
1921. .22,497 2000 10 „ „ 18,756 1000 20,339
1922. .27,553 2000 10 „ „ 18,756 2500 24,636
Premiums on new shares, £3llO 27,746
1923.. 31.115.4000 llj p.c. = 21,689 33,172
1924. .20,959 4000 10 „ „ 20,000 36.131
1925. .26,380 4000 10 ~ „ 20,000 38,511
1926. .26,337 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 44,848
1927. .24,765 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 5000 44,613
1928.. 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 5000 40,167
1929. .20,435 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 40,602
1930. .16,261 4000 6 „ „ 12,000 40,863
Loss.
1931.. 6,027 2000* Nil 32,836
*Half-year.
During the 13 years to the close of accounts
in 1925, £40,060 of bonus scrip was scat-
tered and shareholders got a steady 10 p.c.
with a bit extra in the fat years. But with
aggressive competition and the swing of the
city northward and away from Flinders-street
trading became more difficult; so extensive
alterations were made to the premises,
and the co. went into debt. for the purpose.
The reconstruction dislocated business for
awhile, and the div. was dropped to
8 p.c. ; then the depression made its appear-
ance, and the rate was cut to 6 p.c. in 1930.
Last year turnover fell sharply, the
book value of stocks was reduced by £19,698
and gross profits (£72,124) slipped £34,054.
Exes. (£78,151) were pulled back only
£11,766; increasing rates and taxes and a
heavier interest bill handicapped the manage-
ment in this respect. In addition £4178 was
struck off the building reserve (£5822), which
is not included in the table. So for the first
time this century a loss (£6027) showed up.
and the prefs. had to be content with half
a meal. Allowing for their requirements there
was enough in the previous term to show
6.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against 8.2, 8.4,
10.3 and 11.1 p.c. back to 1926.
During the last eight years £129.812 more
has been spent on premises and plant than
lias been written off, and £128,940 net was
added to the debt:—
1923. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £250,0-00 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 86,327 218,815 228,282 215,267
Property .. 106,000 244,000 244,000 244,000
Plant, etc. .. 46,188 40,000 39,000 38,000
Stock.. .. 153,776 167,793 185,051 165,353
Book debts .. 69,833 77,324 68,794 56,271
Cash .. .. 8,202 300 300 300
Despite last year’s reduction of £32.221 in
stocks and book debts, only £11,580 was
clipped off the overdraft (£58,300) and £1435
off the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£36,967) ; the mortgage remained un-
changed at £120,000. Thus the more or less
liquid surplus (£6657, including stocks) was
£19,206 lighter than at the previous balance.
Much obviously depends upon the figure at
which stocks have been written into the
sheet. The position will look more attractive
when the debt is substantially reduced.
The pound, ords. fetch Bs. 6d. on the
market, and the 8 p.c. cum. prefs. (there are
50,000 of them) are offered at pai\ The net
tangible cover (book value) is £5 13s. Id.
for the prefs. and 235. 3d. for the ords.
News, Ltd. (Adelaide)
( Dividends
Net Pref. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
June, £ £ £ £ J 2
1925.. 2,019 8000* 70,48.«
(6 p.c.)
1926.. 16,227 4000 8,340 3887 71,598
(10 p.c.)
1927.. 22,793 4000 13,970 4824 66,774
1928.. 28,091 4000 18,575 5516 61,2.>8
1929.. 29,961 4000 19,686 6275 54,983
(2* p.c.)
1930.. 12,651 4000 6,824 1827 53,156
1931.. 8,099 4000 Nil 4099 49,00<
•Includes arrears.
Advertising revenue slumped heavily, and
there was a sharp drop of £39,607 in the
year’s gross earnings (£170,707). But the
management ran a fine comb through the
accounts, overhauled the organisation and
saved £34,701 in exes. (£162,962 after pro-
viding for depreciation, bad debts, etc.) ,
this despite the sudden leap in exchange and
primage, which together increased the
landed cost of paper by over 30 p.c. Enough
remained to satisfy the pref. requirements
and show 1.1 p.c. on the £348,555 °f 01 ,
capital as against 2.4, 13.1, 12.8, 13.0 and
8.8 p.c. back to 1926. So the ords. went
hungry; but the amount of their capital
unrepresented by tangible assets was reduced
to £49,057. _ . 1 ,
It all makes an interesting life-story.
The co. took over the “Mail” (Adelaide).
“Recorder” (Port Piric) and ‘Barrier
Miner” (Broken Hill) in 1922, and set about
establishing an evening paper, the News,
in Adelaide. Activities were extended to
Hobart, but publication there was discon-
tinued in 1926, after writing off a loss ot
£17,345. Then £85,000 of 7i P-C. debentures
were issued in connection with the purchase ot
the Perth “Daily News ” Soon all the publi-
cations contributed to the pool, and, as the
(Continued on page 16.)


lOU
it's a
capstan
mv.
&
m
VX' N
1
: ■
m
Riding
the skies
of public
preference
for
thirty years
is no mean
achievement.
Capstans
have
done it.
H>6
20°'Y
Also in Boxes of 50 and 100: in Tins
of 50 and Oval Heavyweights.
CAPSTAN
Medium and Full Strength
1524


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Because Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-corrosive, it
gives longer, more economical and equally efficient
service when compared with any other type of con-
duit. These facts—when considered with its initial
low cost and ease and cheapness of handling an<l
laying —provide the reason why Pioneer Wood Pipe
is to-day recognised as the ideal conduit for water
supply or any undertaking calling for the use of
piping. Fullest particulars on request to the Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Foots-
cray, Victoria. — Advt.
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney ; J. R. Reid and Sons.
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
A Guaranteed Income
New Kind of Life Assurance
by A.M.P. Society
WIVES SHOULD STUDY IT
THE longer I live, the
greater my faith in life
assurance as a safety device,”
said one of the most experi-
enced of A.M.P. representa-
tives. “The wonder is that
more men do not shelter under
it. I have recommended thou-
sands of men to build up their
assurance so that they might
have peace of mind, and do
the right thing by their families.
Some of these men hearkened
to me, and greet me with a
wave of the hand when I pass
them in the street. I did them
a good turn and they admit it.
Others turned me away, but
many of them have since cursed
me for not insisting that my
advice be taken.”
The A.M.P. representative is
an adviser—a good friend.
Listen to what he has to say
when he calls on you. Let him,
for instance, tell you about the
new A.M.P. Monthly Income
Policy. Let him explain its
benefits to your wife.
Most assurance policies pro-
vide for the payment of a lump
sum on the death of the person
assured, or when he reaches a
certain age. For the widow
and family to draw a regular
income, they have to invest that
sum when they get it—and
invest it wisely.
Herein lies a pitfall for
many. Tempted by a promise
of large profits, they put the
money into a bad venture, and
lose! The A.M.P. has a new
kind of policy that eliminates
this risk—a policy that guar-
antees a regular monthly in-
come to the widow (or to the
insured himself at a certain
age if that be his wish).
A man who assures for
£l 000 under this policy secures
to his wife and family an in-
come of £l2/10/- a month for
20 years after his death, but
that is not all. In addition to
this regular income, all accu-
mulated bonuses are paid at
death and, at the end of the
20 years, the £lOOO is paid as
well! What a policy this is
to give comfort and security to
a man’s wife, and to give him
peace of mind!
This policy may be varied.
It may be taken out to mature
at a given age—at 60 or 65
years, for instance. If so taken
out, the benefits become pay-
able at maturity or at death,
should that occur previously,
so a man can take out one of
these policies to ensure to him-
self an income in his old age.
The premiums are within
most men’s ability to save. Let
an experienced A.M.P. officer
give you details. Ring or
write the nearest A.M.P. office
and ask that one call on you.
Full particulars by post if pre-
ferred.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
WITH OFFICES IN THE CAPITAL AND PRINCIPAL
CITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH AND NEW ZEALAND
A. C. HOLL.INGWORTH, A.1.A., General Manager.
Established
1849.
AMP
Assets,
£83,200,000.
circulation of the Adelaide “News” climbed —
it is the only evening paper in the S.A. capital
—the ords. were handed 10 p.c. with increas-
ing comfort for the three years to the close
of accounts in 1929. Since then a co-opera-
tive trade agreement with the “Advertiser
co., Adelaide, in which the Melbourne
“Herald” people had become interested, has
been cemented by the “News” and “Adver-
tiser” cos. each exchanging £150,000 of ord.
scrip. On these shares the “News” gets the
equivalent of its own div. up to 10 p.c., plus
anything more that the “Advertiser” may
pay on its scrip.
The Perth debentures, which have been
worked down to £60,500, mainly by conver-
sion into shares, were renewed at par last
year for a term not specified in the report:
1923. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £151,875 £247,700 £398,555 £398,555
Debentures .. 61,300 60,445
Other liabilities 18,243 71,684 83,040 09,209
Freehold premises 39,322 102,475 117,351 114,036
Plant & fittings 53,980 88,082 81,542 7*>>966
Stocks.. .. 26,109 23,015 25,797 18,551
Book debts,
shares in other
cos etc. . . 7,082 123,903 266,095 262,590
Cash,"etc. •• 1,248 99 99 59
Thus £23,831 was clipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors. But the real
state of the finances is obscured by the lump-
ing of debtors’ balances with shares, to-
gether £3500 lighter than at the previous
balance. Much will depend upon whether
the allowance for contingencies proves to be
adequate, and upon the condition ot the
machines.
Until conditions generally become more
settled, there is not much prospect of im-
provement in earnings, out of which exchange
and taxation of one kind and another con-
tinue to take a large bite. Hence the price
of the ords. has dropped to 13s. 3d. on the
market as against 225. 6d. a year ago and
365. 6d. 12 months before that. The 8 p.c.
cum. prefs.—so,ooo of them, which enjoy
priority as; to capital—seldom appear on
’Change; Their net tangible cover amounts
to £6 19s. 4d.; ditto for the ords.; 17s. Id.
Britain and the Gold Standard
As a result of the persistent withdrawal
of funds from London, the British Govern-
ment decided at the week-end to again sus-
pend gold payments. The position of
Britain thus becomes the same as that ot
Australia, which has been “off” the gold
standard since the present crisis began.
During the war, and for some time after-
wards, Britain was similarly “off” gold, and
the British £ was no longer worth a sov-
ereign. The divergence was best illustrated
by the shrinkage of the £ in value compared
with the American dollar. Par is 4.86 and
a fraction; the lowest in June-July, 1914,
was 4.854; the highest, 4.87 f. After the
war the peg (the sale of short-term Treasury
bonds on Wall-street) was withdrawn, and
a collapse occurred; the lowest point
was reached in February, 1920 : it was then
3.29. The English £ was thus worth at that
date approximately 13s. Bd.
The Australian £ moved with the English
£. That is to say, exchange Australia-
London was maintained at about the normal
rate; in February, 1920, the T.T. selling-
rate in Australia was 17s. 6d. p.c. premium.
From this it might be assumed that the
present rate will continue notwithstanding
a fall in the value of the £ English.
Mr. Mond is Arrested
One, now known as Philip James Mond,
and another, William Cunningham, chair-
man and managing director respectively of the
newly-registered Imperial Sugar Industries,
were arrested in Sydney last week-end and
charged with conspiring together to defraud
shareholders of the Ocean Investment Trust,
Ltd., of large sums of money. This invest-
ment trust was formed to sell the bonds of
Papuan Rural Products, amongst other
things. Mond, represented as a company pro-
moter, devised an elaborate plan with a com-
plicated background of interlocking concerns
whose alleged paid capitals aggregate mil-
lions of pounds, said to be put up in London
by people whose identity he has not thus far
cared to disclose. His flamboyant claims
and the one-sided terms of his sugar bonds
were recorded in last week’s “Wild Cat.”
Police inquiries are said to disclose that
Mond came from Maoriland, and, before tak-
ing on the name of Mond, was known as
James Alexander Smyth, and by other names
before that. It is said that he was due to
sail for London last Tuesday to make final
arrangements in connection with his schemes.
They are still making preparations for
better days at Broken Hill. B. H. North is
putting up a head-frame for the new shaft:
it will rise 130 ft. above the shaft-top, and
is said to be the largest in the British
Empire. Goninans, of Newcastle, are build-
ing it, and using 500 tons of steel in the job.
* * * ❖
An application by Mt. Isa Mines for the
declaration of a 48-hour week has been
turned down by the Queensland Industrial
Court, which ordered the continuance of 44
hours for miners and all clerical workers
other than checkers and timekeepers. The
lead furnaces, which gave trouble at the start,
arc now running smoothly, and the haulage
plant is bringing 800 tons of carbonates and
400 tons of sulphides to the surface daily.
Since the commencement of operations 5000
tons of lead bullion have been shipped over-
seas.
* * *
Queensland gold returns show a steady
increase, despite the flooding of the Monkland,
at Gympie, and other mines. Mt. Cassidy,
near Rockhampton, expects to begin produc-
tion next month. The erection of a Hunting-
don battery and ore crusher is well in hand,
and about 25 men should find employment
on the open cut. Single assays have gone as
high as 50z.. but bulk crushings averaged
only lOdwt.; still, the co. says it can make
6dwt. pay. The best gold news from Queens-
land for a decade at le’ast is the taking over
of the full Mt. Coolon option by Gold Mines
of Australia.
:!: * *
The little Mt. Peter goldfield, near Cairns
(N.Q.), is in the throes of a renaissance.
The battery has been reconditioned, thanks
to assistance from the Minister for Mines,
who visited the field recently. Steady re-
turns may now be expected from half a
dozen small shows in the neighborhood. The
bulk of the ore is likely to come from the
Talisman and the Mt. Peter Extended. The
former has 2ft. of stone, which prospects
20z.; the geologist figured on loz. from
his assay samples. While the battery is
going the field should keep 50 men in wages;
a decided help to Cairns, at whose back
door it lies.
❖ ❖ ❖
Palmer River Gold Co. cleaned up 550 z.
17dwt. of gold, valued at £295 for the fort-
night ended August 31. The ground was
rough, only 5000 cubic yards going through
in the second week as against 8000 for the
first. The dredge closed down for the instal-
lation of shaker machinery and gold-saving
tables, but was due ta resume last week.
t- * * *
A prospector at Waanyarra, near Dunolly
( Vic.), who recently unearthed a 58oz. nugget
of gold, has discovered another of 15foz.
• lut'd at about £9O. lie has been working,
single-handed, in ground up to 16ft. deep.
About. 170 men are fossicking in the neigh-
borhood, but few are making more than
tucker. Two leases for quartz areas at
Moliagul have been applied for ; one includes
the site of the old Welcome Stranger nugget,
and the other covers the old workings of
the Golden Goose.
* * * *
Old hands believe that the Kimberley field,
nor’-Westralia, should be a big producer.
Quartz reefs, great and small, and well-
defined fissures cut through tilted slate and
andesitic formations have opened up and
yielded well. The Ruby Queen shut down
on 30dwt. ore; Bradleys was worked by
Mahomet Esau until 4dwt. in a 10ft. reef
could not be made pay at such a distance
from Wyndham, the nearest port. Grant’s
Creek was promising, and crushed a quan-
tity of better-than-ounce rock before water
beat the miner. Rich leaders have been
worked; Mount Dockrell was the best with
some 5000 ounces down to 50 feet. Here
aboriginals interfered with development by
spearing the bracemen. Though practically
every creek within miles of Hall’S Creek has
shown good prospects, no big payable forma-
tions have yet been located. The new find by
Hansen and Schellie is on Ruby Plains
station, belonging to Darcy Bros., on the
south side of the Elvirc River; it is in
country previously unprospected.
❖ ’ ❖ sjt
Bundi Tin, floated in Melbourne nine years
ago to work twin properties in the Bundi
and Cheneh Valleys (F.M.S.), made a loss of
£5499 for the year ended December 31. Both
dredges closed down during June, 1930; up till
then they made £2603 profit, after writing off
£4321 for depreciation. No. 1 dredge resumed
under tribute during the latter half of the
year, but results were unsatisfactory. Com-
bined working costs of both dredges were
5.74 d. per c.y., a drop of 1.23 d. compared with
the previous year. The recovery per yard
(.721b.) dropped .091 b. The tribute ran out on
February 15, when No. 1 was docked; No. 2,
in the Cheneh section, began on tribute on
March 13. The terms cover caretaking ex-
penses and provide a small working profit for
the co., which has an option to take the
dredge back at any time. There was £4748
coming to creditors, and £2412 in the bank.
Paid capital is £82,234.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred, from, Service Department.)
(1) Value of magnesite in Sydney? (2)
Its principal uses? (3) Is it used in the
manufacture of whiting? (4)_ Value of
chrome (40 per cent, chromium) in Sydney?
(5) Any demand for felspar locally? (6)
Is it found in Australia? (7) Value of
felspar? (8) How to distinguish felspar from
quartz? (9) Value of asbestos in Sydney?
(10) What are its uses and how is it graded?
—5636.
(1) From £2 10s. to £.3 per ton. (2) It
is used principally for the. lining of basic
open-hearth steel furnaces, other furnace
hearths, crucibles and the manufacture of
magnesia bricks. It is also used in the
manufacture of oxychloride or sorel cement,
wood pulp, magnesium sulphate, etc. (3)
No. Whiting is composed of carbonate
of lime. (4) Ore containing 40 per cent,
chromium sesquioxide is marketable at about
£3 ss. per ton. (5) There is a limited
demand for certain classes of felspar. (6)
Known to occur in many localities throughout
Australia. (7) From £2 to £4 per ton,
depending upon the particular purpose for
which it is best suited. (8) Distinguished
from quartz by its cleavage and hardness.
(9) From £5 to £lOO per ton, depending upon
the quality. (10) The value is determined
by the strength and length of the fibre
mainly. Spinning fibre is used chiefly in
the manufacture of fire-proof fabrics; other
grades are mixed with Portland cement in
the manufacture of fibro cement and roofing
materials. Considerable quantities are
employed also in the manufacture of heat-
and acid-resisting compounds.
What was the effect of inflation on Ger-
many and France? What is the condition of
those countries now? Who we>'e the great-
est sufferers? —5863.
Inflation has the same general effect every-
where ; it robs the creditor at the expense
of the debtor. A country would not neces-
sarily be either richer or poorer because of
inflation ; it may rob Smith and put the pro-
ceeds in Brown’s pocket. It will, however,
enable a country to escape debts —as long as
they are internal debts held by outsiders.
(Debts payable abroad in gold, like the
foreign debts of Australia, are not affected.)
The worker suffers greatly, as a rule, because
the rise in wages always tends to lag behind
the rise in prices. Investors and those in
receipt of fixed incomes (pensioners, etc.)
are usually ruined.
(1) When will the exchange rate be back
to normal? (2) I intend going to England
shortly. Would it be better for me to pur-
chase goods here and sell them in England?
If so, what g00d5? —5796.
(1) Little hope so long as wool and wheat
prices arc low. With a reasonable recovery,
1934 may see normal exchange. (2) Very
risky to’attempt it. You will find that a
fairly full allowance is made for exchange in
the prices of all Australian products.
How will the Queensland Companies Bill,
if passed, affect timber cos.’ bonds? —s47l.
It will regulate share- and bond-hawk-
ing. But, apparently, it will not prevent the
making of outrageous estimates, and it is
with these that most of the damage is done.
The fact that they are outrageous cannot be
proved for years; and then the promoters
can always be like Mr. Lang and claim that
.some enemy got in the way.
(1) Is a shareholder entitled to know the
amount paid as directors’ fees, annually?
(2) If directors receive no fee for the first
turn or three years after the co. has been
formed, arc they entitled to collect them
when the co. prospers and funds are avail-
fir Much depends on the co.’s articles.
Ae oi.nla Rnt tho aivlitnvo If
As a rule, no. But the auditors, if they think
the fees excessive, ought to acquaint the
shareholders. Auditors are really the share-
holders’ watchdogs ; wherefore it is the share-
holders who must appoint them and fix their
fees. (2) Yes—again if the articles don’t
expressly forbid it.
“ J
BRIEF ANSWERS.
LTS • m Not Tooths (2i Fixed
Ij.j.s. U) iN<)r A °Oins. I-) Bixta
deposit, if you re piepared to risk inflation....
C.K.M.: Quite sound, as far as one can see—which
isn’t far these days. . . . J.C.F.B. : No practical differ-
ence between a Charter and an Act; certainly none
so far as depositors are concerned. .. .J.D.: If it’s
shares, unquestionably; if bonds, couldn’t say with-
out seeing- the contract M.L.8.: (1) and (2)
Nobody knows. (3) Yes; but the fact that a co.
can show 20s. in the £ of tangible assets may
mean very little. Tangible assets are worth only
what they can earn. (4) to (6) Speculative. The
time will come when it will be a good thing to
buy. Whether that time has arrived we can’t
advise. (7) A pure gamble. .. .H.E.P.8.: Rather
heavily in debt. But as they carry 3s. accumulated
divs - aTld have P riorit y as to capital, they are an
,f, amb ! e 2CL: . Wlll a^ co ™ ts in
Wdd Cat columns next week D - ••
J ' D V + ln th % circumstances /ou mention Jn ect
marketing... ..D. .. t 18 qi e P
ca ha ! e to / sk t s^ re “ Lv
want t 0 sell - wnte to the secletary -


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
MAINTAINING THE STANDARD.
“Premier Lang and many union officials oppose suspending awards to give the 100,000 unemployed in New South Wales a chance to get work, using the argument
that it would reduce the standard of living.”
OUT-OF-WORK: “Can’t you spare my mates and me a helping?”
BASIC-WAGER: “And bring down our standard of living! Not on your life! Why can’t you be satisfied with the nice scraps we allow you to get from the rich
men’s tables?”
Patriotism or Parish Pumpism?
Dear Bulletin,* —I wonder if any of the
people who have made deposits in Lang’s
new Savings Bank realise that the force
behind the movement isn’t patriotism, but
parish pumpism? N. S. Wales isn’t in need
of another place to put its money into. It
has places enough and to spare, and it is a
case of banging the big drum to induce people
to take their bit of cash out of wherever
it is at present so that the new institution
may get it and make a show. The movement
is really a declaration of war against the
Commonwealth Savings Bank.
The Savings Bank system of Australia, as
it has developed in the recent years of fierce
competition, contains an element of rotten-
ness, a possible exception being the Common-
wealth Savings Bank, which has the Common-
wealth Bank behind it. Banks may be divided
into three classes. One kind, which is sup-
posed to have some paid-up capital and
reserves as security for its customers, pays
no interest on deposits returnable on demand,
and is thus supposed to be able to keep them
lying idle and earning nothing, but ready
to meet the demand. Others pay a micro-
scopic interest for money returnable on
demand (the British Post Office Savings
Bank pays 24 per cent.), and they don’t
struggle for business but take what comes.
With so little to pay they can earn their
interest liability and yet keep a big amount
idle to meet demands. A third variety, the
present-day Australian sort, competes fiercely
for high-priced deposits, and the more banks
there are the keener is the competition, so the
starting of a new one in competition with
the Commonwealth concern in the same street
is shaky and malignant policy.
When the old Savings Bank, which cost
about £447,000 a year in working expenses
and yielded nothing to the Treasury except
the money the Treasury borrowed from it,
died, its possible business naturally drifted
towards the Commonwealth Savings Bank,
which has its head office in the same State
and gives the same facilities to the same Aus-
tralian people. There is nothing, then, but
silly vanity in trying to get the business back
by founding a new State Savings Bank.—
Yours, S6l Malaprop.
Welfare Work at Mt. Isa
Charles A. Mitke, the American engineer
who laid the plans for the development of
Mt. Isa, has written on “Industrial Rela-
tions in Australia” for the “Engineering and
Mining World.” He says :
Before the Mining Trust, Ltd., became interested
in the Mount Isa mines, the property had been
turned down by other powerful investors, on the
grounds that the labor situation in that district was
entirely too difficult, and would impose untold hard-
ships on an operating company. The Mining Trust,
however, believed that Australian workmen would
respond to right, treatment, just as American and
English workmen do. Consequently,’ at a very ‘
early stage, it formulated definite plans for the
health, recreation and general welfare of the em-
ployees.
First the co. built five blocks of dormitories
for 234 men ; these being insufficient, 10 blocks
of 20 rooms each were put up to house 400
more. All had running water. Two mess-
halls, with cafeteria and dining-rooms, fol-
lowed. The dormitories, two in a room,
cost 3s. 6d. a week; one in a room, ss.
Houses, two to five rooms, followed; with
light, water and septic-tank, rent ran from
10s. to 17s. 6d. p.w.; larger ones for staff,
17s. to 28s. To provide for temporary
hands (married) 61 double tents connected
by a fly, with board floors, making three
enclosed rooms, were let at ss. A company
department-store was set up—general store,
ice-plant, drug and fruit stores, etc., with a
branch of the Commonwealth Bank. The
store was cash-and-carry ; co.’s coupons taken.
A hospital was also set up; then a sports
ground, a band-rotunda, a clubhouse —-card-
and refreshment-rooms, barber-shop, library,
reading-room, indoor games, concert hall
(membership, Is. 6d. month; 12s. year). As
for results, one example:—
The custom at Christmas in West Queensland was
for everyone who could afford it to go to the
coast or elsewhere for two or three weeks, and the
mines had to shut down. Fewer and fewer men
now leave the district, and for the past two years
the mine has closed down on only the three important
holidays—-Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New
Year’s Day. Saturday afternoon work, which has
been unknown in Australia for many years, has
been resumed, and underground, in important drifts,
men are working three shifts seven days a week.
During October, 1930, an Australian record in drift-
ing was established when 469 ft. was driven in a
9ft. x 9ft. drift, on the 350 ft. level.
But the co. recently wasn’t able to induce its
men to accept the 48-hour instead of the 44-
hour week, nor could it persuade the Queens-
land Industrial Court to grant it against
the men’s wishes.
Overbearing Taxation Departments
Some of the performances of these taxation
departments are astounding in their arro-
gance. In the earlier part of April a man
sent a N.S.W. Rural Bank chenue to the
Taxation Department in payment 'of Federal
income tax and got a receipt dated April 16.
On April 23 —seven days later —the bank
suspended payment. The department then
presented the cheque, and of course, was
told that it could not be paid. Thereupon
the Commissioner notified the drawer and
demanded payment, and followed this up with
a notice of non-payment and a fine. It
seems that some officer of the department
should have endorsed the cheque and didn’t,
and that the endorsement was afterwards
delayed “by an oversight” ; yet, though it was
thus absolutely and exclusively the fault of
the department that the cheque wasn’t
cashed, it puts up a prodigious bluff,
threatens the man with fine, and eventually,
its bluff being called more or less, graciously
gives the man a few more months to find
the money!
Settling Unemployed on the Land
Dear B., —There has been a lot of talk
about getting people back on the land. Are
our Governments capable of doing it? Doubt-
ful. Red tape, too many executive jobs,
ignorance of local conditions and injudicious
buying would cripple any such movement.
Start the ball rolling closer to the people.
Each district form a separate body—call it
the Farmers’ Settlement League—and under-
take to assist a certain number of unem-
ployed to commence farming. There are
abandoned farms in almost every district.
Working bees, loan of implements and horses,
portion of seed supplied by every member
of the League—these only suggest methods of
giving the new settlers a start. The hearts of
the country people are big- Such a movement
only requires a start. Why couldn’t organi-
sations such as the Returned Soldiers’ League
and the Farmers’ Union give it a kick off? —
Yours etc., Wallybob.
Pigs Might Save Us
“W.F.S.”: Last year Britain imported
close to 50 million pounds’ worth of pig pro-
ducts ; little, cold, wet Denmark sent over
23 millions’ worth, the British Co-operative
Wholesale Society buying 10 millions’ worth
of bacon alone. If we can capture one-third
of that market, it equals 4,000,0000 z. of gold
with exchange at par. There is not much
chance of mining it, but we can buy it with
pigs—and the gold-mining can still go on.
But it’s no use leaving this job to a few
thousand farmers breeding many types of
pigs; with small factories making many
grades of bacon. We must have a chain of
gigantic pig-farms and bacon-factories
throughout the agricultural districts, breed-
ing one class of pig and producing one class
of bacon, the best suited to the British
market. The scheme would have to be
started on a State-subsidised co-operative
basis ; the dole would have to go, the unem-
ployed being sent to the farms and factories
to be fed, clothed and given a share in the
profits, the State to be recouped for advances.
It is in the way of organising these farms
that we can learn something from Russia,
which is doing with wheat what we can
much better do with hogs.
“Port” Wine
The old controversy over the right to use
the word “port” has broken out again. By
a treaty made many years ago between Eng-
land and Portugal and since periodically
renewed, Portugal was given the sole right to
use the word as describing the heavy red
wines of the Douro, exported through Oporto.
Australia and S’Africa, which manufacture
a wine of the same type, have long asked
for the privilege of using the descriptive tUlo
for their products, but this has been denied
them. Recently the Empire Producers’ Assoc,
sought the assistance of the British Board of
Trade in having the embargo placed on the use
of the word by others than the Portuguese
lifted. The application was refused, the chair-
man of the board declining to accept the
contention that the name had now no
geographical significance. Still, that is the
case. The privilege was granted to the prc>T
ducers of the wine coming from the Douro
vineyards only; but for years the Portuguese,
in an endeavor to capture the market where
the cheaper dominion wines of the same
type have had a ready sale, have been ex-
porting wines from other parts of Portugal
and even from Spain as port. Of inferior
quality and heavily fortified, these decoctions
have no right to the protection which the
use of the word “port” gives them. That is
really the anomaly which the Dominion wine-
makers have been trying to overcome.
Unemployed and New Guinea
“Bat”: Surely “P.N.C.” is not serious
when he suggests (B. 19/8/’3l) New Guinea
as a place on which to instal a number of
our unemployed. Such a scheme would be
doomed to failure. New Guinea is a coun-
try of cheap colored labor, and no one would
consider white labor costing approximately
£2O per head per month for road work and
fettling when local colored labor is on hand
at 6s. per month and rations (255. per
head per month, inclusive). Apart from
the fact that the scheme is highly expensive
(it costs nearly £3O to get to Salamoa),
what would your Australian unemployed say
when asked to produce a pineapple, a hand
of bananas and some tomatoes for four
sticks of tobacco (Is.) ? That is all the
natives ask!
Dear Bulletin, —While agreeing with the
writer of “Small Holdings for Unemployed”
(B. 9/9/’3l) that something must be done
“to put a large proportion of those on the
dole in the way of fending for themselves,” it
is not going to be easy. For instance, the
3000 or so unemployed at Broken Hill have
been clamoring for vegetables to be added to
the dole. One of their number, who recog-
nises the importance of greens in diet, re-
marked, when the usual “demand” to supply
was being made on the Government, that
there was plenty of vacant land on the banks
of the river at Menindie, and plenty of water
in the river, and suggested that they. send
teams of members out in rotation to till 25
acres and grow the vegetables for which they
were clamoring. The suggestion was thrown
out as a huge joke then, and has been simi-
larly treated whenever it lias been brought
forward by the man who. thinks the unem-
ployed should do something to help them-
selves, and that is at almost every weekly
meeting.—Yours etc., M. M. M.
* * * *
Auckland, long a keen rival of Sydney
in the beauty competition, is not going to be
outdone in the matter of bridges, either. The
beginning of next year will see a start made
on one across the harbor at an estimated
cost of £1,100,000. British capital will pay
for it.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (com. Saturday) .... “The Mikado”
Criterion “Hay Fever”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Dearest Enemy”
Comedy “My Lady’s Dress”
State Movies and Talkies
WHEAT.
The Great Australian One-act Play.
[Note. —This superb all-Australian comedy
was awarded the First Prize of £2 against
no less than seven other competitors in the
All-Australia One-act Play Competition in-
augurated by the All-Australia Dramatic
League. It was produced by the A.A.D.L.
with the following cast: —
Jackeroo Horace Oxford
Bailiff S. Hills
The Girl Darling Hurst
By a terrible mischance, comparable to
the burning of “The Life of Dr. Johnson”
after Newton had gone blind writing it, the
“ Ha! Someone comes.”
MS. of this play was thrown into a garbage-
tin. The following version is from shorthand
notes taken on the first (and only) night of
production.
The curtain rises disclosing a stage clut-
tered with dead horses, dying cattle and
emaciated sheep. In a ringbarked gum-tree
(right) crows are clinging gauntly to the
limbs. From time to time during the action
one of the birds succumbs to the heat and
falls slowly into the mud-caked dam. The
time is about noon.]
Jackeroo (he has a shotgun under his arm
and has one foot on the flank of a' cow that
is breathing its last) : “So it has come to
this! The station manager and the cook
have departed. I alone am left to carry the
white man’s burden. Will I give in? I
shall see them (glances anxiously around
to make sure no ladies are present) blowed
before I do so. Did.... Where.... H0w”....
Prompter: “Did I know when I left
England where”
Jackeroo: “Did I know when I left Eng-
land where.. .. What. .... Who. ... Did”... .
Prompter: “Did I know when I left Eng-
land where I should have come, what I
should; have been doing”
Jackeroo; “Where I should have come,
what I should have been doing, would I have
left the sunny cloisters of dear old Oxford?
Yes; for it is in the blood. Ha, ha, ha. Why
even laughter is dismal out here. And why
am I here then? I am here because I know
that again the rains will come, that again
the grass will spring, that the birds”
Prompter: “That the trees will burst into
foliage and”——
Jackeroo: “That the trees will burst into
foliage, and the birds”
“Strewth an’ ’oopirons, I’ll have to take me
lunch off the mantelpiece for a month!”
Prompter: “And honeyed flowers”
Jackeroo: “The trees will burst into foli-
age and honey flowers, and the birds”
Prompter: “Honeyed flowers cupping the
dews”——
Jackeroo : “Honey flowers cupping the dews,
and the birds will sing and the potentialities
of this young land be obvious to everybody.
(He sharply shades his eyes with a hand.)
Ha ! Someone comes. Who would come to
this place now?”
(Horses’ hoofs are heard [off], and pre-
sently a man, dressed as if he had just
stepped out of a city office, rides on to the
stage. His horse is sleek and well fed, in
poignant contrast to the poor dying creatures
about.)
Horseman (dismounting and rubbing the
back of his pants) : “’Strewtb an’ ’oopirons,
I’ll ’ave to take me lunch orf the mantel-
piece for a month.”
Producer (off) ; “Pause for laugh.”
Jackeroo: “Pause for laugh”
Prompter: “And what seek you in these
parts”
Jackeroo: "And what seek you in these
parts, my man?”
Horseman ( feeling in coat pocket) : “’Ere,
young feller, read this.”
Jackeroo ( reading ) : “‘We, the firm of Hide
and Seek, solicitors, beg to inform you that
all the mortgages falling due on your place
have been called up.’ Ha; so Guggenheimer
has carried out his threat!”
Bailiff: “’Oo’s this ere Buggenheimer?”
Producer (off) : “Pause for laugh.”
Jackeroo: “Pause Er, er”—
Prompter: “You have not heard”
Jackeroo: “You have not heard of the
great Guggenheimer? For years he 'wooed
the daughter of Jim Harding, this station’s
owner, in vain. She had already given away
her heart.”
Bailiff. “Moanin’ yerself, matey?”
Jackeroo ( blushing) : “That’s as it may be.
Alas (to himself), it makes little difference
now! That white-livered scoundrel has
taken away what chance I had of wresting
our fortunes from Windyboo station. ( Looks
at the document again.) Wait! ‘Unless
our client is satisfied within six months
from this date, we will have no alternative
but to foreclose forthwith.’ A chance?....
No. Vain to hope.” (He sinks doion on
a dead horse’s shoulder.)
Bailiff (patting him on the back) : “Cheer
up, sonny; you’ll soon be dead. Well, ’ere’s
back to town, an’ a whisky an’ soda.” (lie
mounts and rides off.)
Producer (off) : “Business with gun.”
Jackeroo (starting up) : “Business with
....Er.... (He lets the gun drop.) Il'a,
the gun! {He lifts it, and stands up.) So
it has come to this. We meet, Australia,
only to say good-bye. It is the will of Fate.
In England, in dear old Oxford, they will
never know. How could they understand
there that life should go down in the balance
against a few tons of wheat. In vain did I
plead with Jim Harding, good man and all
that he is, to convert Windyboo into a wheat
station. Even now, if I had the wheat it
would not be too late. I could discharge the
debt to Guggenheimer, and in this paradise
Kitty and I could mould our lives nearer
to the heart’s desire. The trees would come
into blossom, and the birds”-
Prompter: “Honeyed blossom, to cup the
dews.”
Jackeroo: “The trees would come into
honey blossom to cup the dews, and the
birds would sing. Alas! it is not to be.”
(He cocks the gun, and points it at his fore-
head. The air. is at once filled with a loud
whirring sound, an aeroplane taxis on to
the stage, and a slim figure in boy’s clothes
steps out.)
The Girl; “Oh, Clarence, thank God I’m
in time!”
Jackeroo: “Kitty! What has brought
you here?”
Kitty (smiling) : “Why, the old ’bus, of
course.”
Producer (off) : “Pause for laugh.”
Jackeroo: “Pause f0r.... Er, er. But
now, it is too late.”
Kitty ( mischievously ): “Is that a love
letter sticking out of your pocket.”
Jackeroo: “No, dear. It is the notifica-
tion that Guggenheimer will foreclose. Oh,
if only I had the wheat to beat that scoun-
drel !”
Kitty: “Take courage, my dear Jack. We
will beat him yet.”
Jackeroo: “You mean?”
Kitty: “I mean that this old ’bus of mine
is packed with wheat. Look!” (She goes
to the aeroplane and drags out a bag.)
Jackeroo (taking out his knife) : “Saved!
We will plant it now.” {He slashes a
bag open, and jumps back horrified.)
Kitty: “Whatever”
Jackeroo: “O God, the irony of Fate.
It is chaff.”
(As the curtain falls they both sit down
gloomily on a dead coio.)
Though it deals with queer people—ordi-
nary people are said to be frightfully uninter-
esting—Noel Coward’s “Hay Fever,” which
broke out at Sydney Cri. on Saturday night,
is essentially and completely middle-class Eng-
lish in the narrowest sense of the term. The
play is a comedy of manners, mostly bad, and
deliberately and calculatedly bad. The
offenders against etiquette know that they
are offending, and their mental attitude is a
mixture of defiance and compunction. Fur-
thermore, as far as such a thing is possible,
the boors are boorish in a well-bred way. It
is all devastatingly subtle and the dialogue is
tremendously smart, the gift of saying noth-
ings piquantly being expected of Mr.
Coward’s characters. The piece is a string
for beads of amusing patter, and the co.
assembled by the Firm for the job sees to it
that the string does not break. Ethel Morri-
son, as a sort of Mrs. Siddons in retirement
—an utterly inconsistent creature, hinged
together in the wrong places—makes the
hotch-potch appear rational after the first
ten minutes; Mary MacGregor applies one of
her three formulas to the character of the
breezy daughter with fair success, and John
Wood does the unpleasant son effectively.
Mona Barlee, as the only person in the cast
who kicks back, wins sympathy, and the
rest are foils, pathetically and impotently
resenting the lacerations to which their feel-
ings are subjected. After three hours of
floating on the stream of a theme that has
its source in nothing and is bound for the
same destination, this Showman reflected
that the time must be ripe for a revival of
“The Silver King.”
¥ * *
With ventriloquist Arthur Prince as its
leader a new vaudeville co. took possession
of Sydney Grand Opera House on Saturday.
Prince, who is a master in his line., wins
applause with some original and difficult
tricks. He keeps his doll chattering away
while he drinks a glass of water, and dummy
splutters and coughs from the supnosed effect
of cigar smoke while Prince maintains a
poker face. Clem Dawe has an assortment
of new wheezes. Glen. Ellen ties herself
into knots and insinuates herself through
seemingly impassable apertures. Jack Lums-
daino sings at the piano. “The Three Piano
Girls” thump their way into favor with
sprightly melodies. The dancing of Halliday
and Watson is a bit above the average, and
the ballet frisks on and off gleefullv.
¥ * *
George Kaufman’s comedy “Ready Mil-
lions,” at the Sydney Playbox, is hardly the
type of play one expects from Duncan Mac-
dougall and his group. The Playbox eight
years ago raised the flag of revolt against
the wares offered by the commercial theatre,
and made known to Sydney playgoers the
works of O’Neill, Capek, O’Casey, Kaiser,
Rice and others. In recent times, however,
it has hawked some very small fish in its
basket. When this Showman strayed into
the Playbox’s new premises in Young-street
they were playing “Ready Millions” for
the third time. Best characterisations were
given by Ivan Mitchell, Helen Blood and
Laura West.
* * *
Although Ileijermans’s “The Rising Sun,”
which is packing the Community Playhouse,
Sydney, is 30 years old it lias a melancholy
topical interest, hinging as it does on the
impending bankruptcy of a storekeeper,
capably done by Dudley Swindon. Bessie
Vine, who plays the part of Sonia,
the storekeeper’s daughter; Eleanor Wilson,
as his wife; John Wilson, as his father;
and Roger Murphy, a successful business
rival, help to give the Dutch tragedy vitality.
* * *
Dorothy Brunton and others continue to
interpret the history of the American War
of Independence in “Dearest Enemy” at
Melb. Royal more or less according to fact.
Still, the playwright leaves out of George
Washington’s career a lot of which a fine
actor like Frank Bradley could take
advantage. For instance, the colonel of Vir-
ginia volunteers counting the French scalps
brought in by friendly Indians on the British
side. These are the realities which don’t
come into musical comedy—or into many of
the history-books, for that matter —but they
would make playgoing much more unex-
pected and give good actors a better chance
to prove their worth.
# * *
Madame Zorina, the dramatic soprano
whom Bernard H'einze produced out of his
hat, was the only novelty in the fifth “Cele-
brity” concert given by the University Sym-
phony Orchestra at the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, on Thursday. The Russian lady has
a very nice voice, though nothing to start a
revolution about. Her singing of “Connais-
tu le Pays,” from “Mignon,” was full of the
sense of the words. But somebody should
have warned her against tackling “Ritorna
Vincitor” (“Aida”). She hadn’t the big
guns necessary for such a major offensive.
In fact, she sang all her songs in much the
same manner. Mark Hambourg steered his
own course through the Tschaikowsky con-
certo in B flat minor, and the orchestra
struggled along with the accepted ren-
“Pause for laugh.”
dering and tempo, with the result that
virtuoso and instrumentalists several times
arrived at the same destination at dif-
ferent moments. Before the affair had
reached its end, however, the orchestra
had decided to let Mr. Hambourg have
his own way, and there was what a
bankers’ and politicians’ conference would
call “perfect unanimity.” The only possible
complainant might have been Tschaikowsky,
and he is dead and hasn’t a vote. There was
nothing new on the rather barren programme.
Dvorak’s “New World” symphony has been
heard before, and the Chopin with which
Hambourg mollified the large audience is
sung even by the telegraph-wires.
# * *
An accidental object-lesson in the psy-
chology of audiences w r as thrust upon this
Showman in Melbourne the other evening.
After surveying one act of “A Warm Cor-
ner,” at the Comedy, he came to the con-
clusion that the authors of the opus were
not likely to have much to tell, so slipped
out to a meeting of the B.M.A. in a hall
adjacent. Prof. Wood Jones was discours-
ing on “The Medical Aspects of Capital
Punishment” to a roomful of physicians,
surgeons and others, and making an unsen-
timental plea for a more scientific method
of removing people whom the Law had
proclaimed scourges of society. He dis-
cussed the various knots and drops now
fashionable, and maintained that they were
neither effective nor tidy. Far from causing
instantaneous passing of the spirit they
were more calculated to either tear the head
off or strangle, the victim. The professor illus-
trated a device which he claimed achieved
the officially desirable result, instantaneous
departure through the neck breaking. Inci-
dentally, he related the experience of a friend
who inspected an Irish method of execution
in which the condemned 'man disappeared
into a deep hole. As soon as the drop had
occurred his friend asked the executioner if
he could go down into 1 the pit and examine
the body, and was told for God’s sake not
to do so as the dead man would certainly
grapple with him. Cecil Kellaway, at the
Comedy, got his laughs by indirect refer-
ences to aspects of sex, of which most of his
audience had presumably had direct experi-
ence. Most of Wood Jones’s audience deal
daily with aspects of life quite as gruesome
as legal executions. The professor was not
making any conscious attempt to be a public
entertainer, yet his performance was greeted
with as continuous and spontaneous laughter
as that of Kellaway’s.
Fritz Hart, the tale of whose operas runs
into' double figures, will wield the baton
over two of his opuses at Melbourne Play-
house on Sept. 24, 25 and 26. They will be
“Pierette” and “St. George and the Dragon.”
The veteran Reginald Roberts will be pro-
ducer for the Aust. Opera Society.
* * *
Memories of Maud Fane and Leslie Hol-
land are revived by the digging-up of “Kiss-
ing Time” at Adelaide Royal. The very-
French war-time humor has worn thin with
the years, but Ivan Caryll’s tunes are as
catchy as ever. Lilian Crisp and Don Nicol
“Oh, Clarence, thank God I’m in time!”
have most of the hard work ; the young man
is least interesting when he imitates Gun
Bluett and shows unexpected strength in
some serious touches. Willoughby is as sound
as ever, and Miriam Lester sings beautifully.
John Dunne needs to let himself go much
more to make a successful stage lover.
The Palette.
The art of Rah Fizelle, a Sydney water-
colorist, who has been showing at Melbourne
Fine Arts, is in its infancy, despite its
deceptive air of finality. The difference between
Mr. Fizelle and an artist is the difference
between a bright child picking shells up on
the beach and a conchologist. The difference
between a painting by him and a picture is
the difference between a series of vaudeville
turns and a play. He picks up boats, houses
and people and puts them inside a frame, but
he never succeeds in bringing them into any
relationship. Those who prefer Nature por-
trayed in terms of vaudeville will like his
art. Those who seek in Nature the drama
of light and shade will find it without appeal.
The annual Twenty Melbourne Painters'
show at the Athenseum has the charm and
variety of a Sunday afternoon on the Yarra
bank. Here you will find Messrs. Frater and
Shore on their soap-boxes chanting their
litany of revolt. Their revolutionary doctrine
is a trifle old-fashioned nowadays, since it
remains proudly anchored, or, rather, fast
aground, on the 50-year-old preachings of
Marx Cezanne. Nevertheless, what they say
sounds startling enough if you have never
heard anything like it before. Come what
may, the women will have their word, and
here is Mrs, Tweddle, also on a soap-box,
waving a brolly in the air. She is a revolu-
tionary, but a moderate one ; a rebel, but still
a woman : a sort of garden or domestic variety
of anarchist, whose bombs look as if they
wouldn’t go off save under intense provoca-
tion. And here is Mr. George Bell. He is
also on a soap-box, but you would hai’dl.v
know it for one, for. not so long ago, Mr.
Bell was a thoroughgoing academician —in
fact, as solidly Flinders-lane as Mr. Bruce.
So his soap-box is elegantly concealed behind
classical columns and is draped with cre-
tonne. li'e is shouting loudly, but not half
loudly enough to drown the voices of Messrs.
Frater and Shore. Mr. Kerensky-Bell is dis-
appointing. He wants revolution but it must
be a respectable bourgeois revolution —revo-
lution in a top-liat. Others are gathered
together on a platform singing “We Stand
for Things as They Are, Always Have Been,
and Always Will Be, Art Without Aim.
Amen.” And quite a number of people are
listening apathetically to them, because it
is the Thing to Do. In the midst of the
“Saved!”
uproar a couple of quiet statements in land-
scape and a sincere and uncompromising selt-
portrait by Percy Leason can barely be
heard; seven profoundly truthful observa-
tions by Clarice Beckett are entirely lost in
the din, while the refined note of P. Hurry
(“Head of an Esthonian Lady'') is prac-
tically inaudible.
“Lond”: Robert Chisholm has struck
London at last —and struck it hard. In the
new “Nina Rosa,” at the Lyceum, he gets
notices like these: “Superb singing and act-
ing,” “Show literally held up for a record
time by the wild applause,” “Magnificently
handsome, too.”


Everu bottle of
tlltftTourf
you buy is guarded by Hie Excise officer
(jIJARDED from cask to
bottle ... supervised for your
protection by the vigilance
of Commonwealth excise
officers . . . your Old Court
Whisky reaches you as a
pure matured spirit . . . ful-
filling every requirement of
Australia’s strict law.
For your protection... when
you order Old Court... SEE
THAT YOU GET this finest
of Australian spirits . . . the
Nation’s Favourite . . . and
the World’s Purest.
m
a
m
I
1
S^hish^
r mm
\w
SE
A-
Did
&5&
4®
iP’hisPH
!
Did
'n DID ,
QTo'Ur-i
" ~) "liter
n>]4S«
(four
A,
CL>-
io
O{D /,
OKi'l
DID
1
1
®9
our
r
m
3r^ J
Smskp
Old
Old
i
our
his
Jphisft.
Did
J
higkfl
> DID
rr !i.JL ITSI :... )■> r
SSBB
I:
iW
iic i m
DID
-vO(D
Ulovir
m
(/ \x
! -Kis
u I I >►-*
hisßfl
nr
*
OU#
£JU:
ll
Kis
DID
Did
m
(A
Kbf*P
\w
iLX
ll
Kis
cv
rs
1)1
A
1
ouri
N
Kb
c
H
\
JL
€c
*1
■
jIL
\
I
DID
OTourf
J
\w
K
:
DID
V
KbPP
\i<r
A
1
'M~.
DID
fl
ms
»IsbsL
louip
W?
si
// ..
(if
v i
rs
DID
Vx
Kb
ttfWskti
£)hc Worlds Purest
x\
O
Si
6
5
si


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .... .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds rernitti rl All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.,
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. \
V. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager;— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission, troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency-—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OP AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
TO MEET THE TIMES
V
u
-
Melbourne* Premier Hotel
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
BOB IN.
“How d’ you get on at the races to-day, Ted?”
“Not so bad. Found a bob after the last race, so I didn’t have to walk home.”
“Fin” : Thirty years ago the ship of the
desert had a big cash value in Westralia.
Now it is about as popular as the rabbit.
Old-timers on Coolgardie will remember the
first camel born in the camp of Aga Khan
on Fly Flat. It was the progeny of a picked
pair of the carrier’s string, and was for-
mally christened Finnerty at a banquet—
a compliment to the late John Michael Fin-
nerty, then-warden of the field. Reg Pell, in
proposing the 1 health of the colt, hoped that
it would live and flourish and become “a
strong and lusty animal —like its name-
sake.” The warden blushingly acknowledged
the tribute.
*•s * *
“Tamata” : Not all the early appointments
of Government officials in British New
Guinea (now Papua) were made in the hap-
hazard fashion suggested by “Honi Soit” (B.
9/9/’3l). At the same time many of those
that were turned up trumps. One notable
the late Treasurer Ballantyne,
who was steering-oar hand in a T.I.
Customs whaleboat when old Billy
Macgregor picked him for his job.
Another recruit was a working miner,
who both as A.R;M. and gold warden
did great work in the rough old days
of the 'Northern Division. Another
was reputed to have been the drum-
mer of the Salvation Army band at
Suva, a post to which he is said to
have descended after a brief and glori-
ous spell as Master of tne Ordnance
or something to the King of Tonga
in Shirley Baker’s day. He was a
big success and rose high in the ser-
vice. And there was an ex-medical
student, who, in the days before
there was a qualified medico in the
Possession, did splendid work at
Samarai for the fever-stricken miners of the
Yodda and Gira goldfields. And there were
others.
* * * *
“Mauri”: “And see that you get the cala-
boose well scrubbed with sand, cocoanut-
skins and phenyl,” said the gaoler. “Yes,
sir,” said the native warder. But it was
a wrathful gaoler who inspected the gaol
that afternoon, for not an inch of walls or
floor had been touched in cells or wardroom.
To his reproaches the puzzled warder could
only reiterate “Me fella scrape him finish
long sand, cocoanuts, now smell medicine
[phenyl], all the same you talk.” “You’re
a liar!” shouted the gaoler. But at the
inspection of the prisoners the mystery was
solved. Each unfortunate kanaka had been
sanded down and washed with almost pure
phenyl until he had hardly an inch of
sound skin. “Calaboose” means either
“prison” or “prisoners” in pidgin.
* * * *
“W. Bluegum”: Writing on behalf of the
koalas, ’possums and other bush creatures I
want to thank the Wild Life Preservation
Society, which has fought tooth and nail to
prevent the wholesale murder of ’possums in
Vic., Queensland and N. S. Wales. It
HARD TO PLEASE.
’ERB: “I wonder what it’s like to sleep in a feather bed?”
’ORACE: “Gosh, you’ll want dorgs mixed with your fleas soon."
isn’t the society’s fault that these little
brothers of the bush have been slain in hun-
dreds of thousands “to help the unemployed.”
I’m pleased to hear, too, that Herbert Hoover,
President of the-U.S.A., has been enlisted
by the society as a friend of us koalas, and
has instructed all his Customs officers not to
admit our skins. The society has issued a
call for koala colonists for certain sanc-
tuaries in N. S. Wales. Mrs. B. and myself
intend to take advantage of this great oppor-
tunity, and we advise others of our clan to
do likewise. I’m told the gum-tips in some
of these reserves are delicious. If we see
any of those politicians who are implicated
in the ’possum murders we intend to pelt
them with gum-nuts.
“Yeranbah” : Recent accounts of
children lost in the bush illustrate
the fact that' parents are apt to
be'"casual in regard to superintend-
ing the youngsters and their wah-
derings. Some families own a
trusty old sheep-dog, which , accom-
panies the kids on their walks
abroad. One I knew employed a
raucous-voiced old cockatoo for
the same purpose, and he stuck to
his charges like a crow T to a dying
slieep. What with his language
and liis aerial flights, in which his
conspicuous white plumage showed
up, it was never very hard to locate
the band. One sound attempt to
grasp with the problem writer saw
at a gate in the border rabbit-
fence which divides N.S.W. and
Queensland. At each gate in those
pre-Federation days was a boun-
dary-rider, who kept the key and
would only let authorised persons
pass through. This one was in a
wild and lonely spot with miles of
thick scrub about. The man and
his wife had one child, a curiously
silent little thing of about six. In
her waking hours this child went
always with a copper bullock-bell
fastened round her neck with a
locked chain. The mother told me
that she often was lost, but was
usually recovered with compara-
tively little trouble.
“Barangfeali”: In the matter of unortho-
dox operations Jimmy Greig, who lived on
Washington Island, about 75 miles from
Fanning Island, had considerable experi-
ence. One of his first cases was a Gilbert
Islander, who had been fearfully cut about
in a knife battle. Deep wounds covered his
back and abdomen, and he was nearly dead
when brought to Greig. With a tarpaulin-
needle and a length of tarred twine and four
hefty natives to hold the patient down, Greig
sewed the skin together—so successfully
that within a month the islander was at
work. In another fight this same native had
his eye gouged out. Greig succeeded in replac-
ing it, but the eye did not fit satisfactorily
into the socket. Greig extracted the eye
again, and trimmed the ragged edges with
a pair of scissors, after which, as he remarked,
“it seemed to fit better.” The native retained
the sight of his eye, although he was heard
afterwards to describe his sight as “a bit
misty.” Greig later successfully operated
for appendicitis. And when he himself had
his cheek and lips torn by a flying steel
hawser, he calmly w r ent to his room and,
standing in front of the mirror, stitched the
torn flesh back into place.
:j! * * *
“Tauwarra” : In the palmy days of one of
the Papuan districts, when men were men and
women were rarities, the warden, who was
also magistrate, laid aside the cares of State
one night and gave a party at the Resi-
dency. All hands (.and their dogs) turned
up, and while a barricade of dead marines
reared itself in the garden and the gramo-
phone ground out the only record that had
survived the journey from the coast, the
warden went among his guests, dropping a
word here andj a word there and seeing that
a good time was had by all. “Well, Bill.”
he inquired of Billy the boilermaker, “how’s
that cookboy of yours getting on, the lad
who put the axle-grease in the Irish stew?”
“No good at all, Mr. Warden,” Bill gloomily
responded. “’E got so flamin’ bad that I did
’im in with a tommy’awk this mornin’.”
There was a horrible silence. Bill began
to squirm, wormlike, under the withering
glances of his mates. The warden coughed.
“Come, come, Bill!” he remonstrated mildly.
“I trust that I am not departing from the
strict propriety which the laws of hos-
pitality demand when I —er —er —I mean
it’s a damned lucky thing for you that you
told me about it after office hours !”
* * * *
“Kajiriri” : In Matalanian Harbor on the
island of Ponape, one of the Caroline group,
are to be seen under the water on a still day
the ruins of the foundations of what must
have been immense buildings. The stones are
tremendous, and the outlines of the rooms
are of huge size. It can be seen that the
stones have been accurately dressed and laid.
The present Caroline Islanders have no con-
nection with these ancient builders, and who
they were, where they came from, and where
they went constitute a mystery that parallels
the origin of the monoliths on Easter Island.
WATERING-TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis watering-time, and from scrub anti grass
Come clamorous thousands that.
With feathers and wool in a mingled mass,
Soon carpet the dusty flat;
The station sheep and the bushland birds —
Corellas, galalis and crows,
Their Mecca a well that a sandhill girds
And that every creature knows.
The place that was still and so dead around
That the shepherd could laze and dream
Is stirred a-sudden to life and sound,
And he wakes at the eagle’s scream.
’Tis watering-time, as the shades advise,
And he hustles and hums and sings
To the patter of hoofs down the timbered
rise
And the beat of a thousand wings.
The troughs are long at Pindara Hut,-
And he fills them one by one,
While the mobs come bleating o’er ridge and
rut
When the sweltering day is done.
Round and round the old whim-horse plods
In the roseate sunset glow,
To the creak-creak-creak of the lifting rods
And the gush from the well below.
The cooling air of the closing day
Is filled with the cries and coughs
Of the eager squads ■as th‘cy swing and sway
And scramble around, the troughs ;
While the waiting bevies spread out and
close,
Loud screeching to hawks at heel,
And with flashing of white and of grey and
rose
They circle and swoop and wheel.
The mobs are big at Pindara Hut,
They gather from every side;
But the well is deep for the daily glut,
And the old horse keeps his stride
Till the cobbler turns with a labored trot
For the hills where the pasture grows,
And the troughs are left to the feathered
lot—
The parrots and hawks and crows.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT' STREET, SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard ot Quality throughout the Empire,
n/ionobei
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
sdsf
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,*
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Only a girl with her school-trained mind,
Only , a girl who a job must find,-
Only a girl at the Gates of Life,
Only a girl to be some boy’s wife,
Only a gill with a fault or two,
Only a girl just as good as you,
Only a girl who for colds, be sure,
Favors Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. —Aim
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
lo succeed — . think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu q
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
.' i -•
>5
“Drom”: Wild camels, wild horses and
wild asses now overrun thousands of miles
of the nor’-west-of W.A. The progenitors
of these were the animals left behind by
prospectors. A menace to the pastoralist iii
their exhaustion of water supplies, they are
hunted occasionally, without much result,
being as active as goats and elusive as
fleas. There. are some stockmen in this
back country as handy with the, lasso as
any of the far-filmed Texan cowboys, but
they can’t catch camels. The horseman may
get within throwing distance and throw. The
noose seems to be going just right, but the
■ snake-like head of the evil-smelling oont
swings aside, the rope drops at his feet and
by the time the slack is gathered up the
camel is a speck in the distance. Riding
beside them is a risky business. The splay
feet of the creature are all over the acreage,
and there is always a strong possibility that
the horse will be thrown while the camel
gaily ambles on.
* * * *
“Tiki”: The three great mountain peaks
in the middle of Maoriland’s North Island—
Tongariro, Ngauruhoe and Ruapehu—belong
THESE MOVIE HEROES.
SMALL BROTHER: “Mum sez you gotter bring back her clothes-line, or she’ll pul yer
across her knee.”
BIG BRAVE BROTHER: “A nice bloomin’ way to talk to a man just goin’ off to lasso a
gang of million-dollar train robbers
to a region that was tapu for at least 600
years. An attempt to lift the ban was made
in 1887, but judging by the misfortunes that
frequently overtake white folk who go explor-
ing the vicinity the old tohungas responsible
for the tapu weren’t actuated entirely by
foolish superstitions. It was Ngatoro. priest
and chieftain of the Ngati-Tuwharetoa tribe,
who six centuries ago declared those' mountains
holy and kindled on Tongariro a sacred fire.
STILL HOPING .
THE TRAGEDIAN: “I’ve been on the stage, siree, for seven-teen years!"
THE COMEDIAN: “And still keen as ever, I suppose, to become an actor!”
His descendants respected his dictum. The
greatest of them all lived no longer ago than
three generations: the chief Te Heu Heu,
concerning Avliom there is a boastful proverb
—“Tongariro, the mountain; Taupo, the
lake; Te Heu Heu, the man !” This Te Hen
Heu was killed by a landslide in 1846, and
his son, also Te Heu Heu, foreseeing that the
acquisitive whites would lay hands on all
land to which title could not be clearly estab-
lished by usage, took counsel with a European
member of Parliament who had intermarried
with his family as to the best way of pre-
serving the sanctity of the region. On the
legislator’s. advice the lands were offered by
Te Heu Heu to Queen Victoria, and the bones
of the great Te H'eu Heu, buried in the
sacred district, were disinterred and buried
elsewhere. It was felt that by giving the
land to a great monarch the mana of
Ngatoro’s descendants would be . preserved.
The land has been made a national park, and
all the three sacred peaks haye been' climbed
many times, though in the tapu days even
Sir George Grey met a stern refusal when
he wanted, to - climb Tongariro. • But the
blizzards and the mountain,.mists are, no
friends to intruders, and there is no part of
stern and wild Maoriland where it is so easy
to get lost and stay lost.
:Jr * *
“C.S,” : While camped near Port Stephens
(N.S.W.) I killed and preserved an eight-
inch centipede. The bottle was knocked over
and broken within a few days, and as I
had .no more methylated spirits I threw the
centipede outside on to a patch of bare
ground. A kookaburra swooped down on it,
swallowing it. in, one gulp, and was back
perched on the bough just over the tent in a
few seconds. In a couple of minutes he
began to chuckle rapidly, increasing into a
whole-hearted laugh. Never have I heard a
iackass laugh as that one did. We watched
him in amazement as he began to wobble on
his perch. Twice he nearly overbalanced, but
by frantic flapping of wings managed to re-
tain his position. But it had to come eventu-
ally, and down he came on top of the tent,
rolling over and over until he reached the
ground. His attempts to fly were disgraceful,
and after several deplorable efforts he gave
it up as a bad job and staggered off to the
shade of a small busli, .where he slept for
the best part of an hour. He then staggered
out, made another attempt to fly,
but after nose-diving seemed to see the joke
himself. He began to laugh again, and three
interested members of his. own familv joined
in with him. This seemed to sober him up
somewhat, because at the next, take-off he
was successful in regaining his perch above
the tent. I wonder what Mrs. .Tack had to
say that night when she smelled his breath !
“Mulgo” : Warrigal learns, and grows cun-
ning with experience. Years ago he was
comparatively easy to trap and poison. One
of the earliest ,traps that he fell into was the
pit. Near the head of the Richmond River
(N.S.W.) it used to be the custom to im-
prison a dingo in a chock-and-log pen, built
alongside a main track, so that his howls at
night would bring others around. Close by
was a deep pit, covered with a heavy lid,
which was evenly balanced on a central axle.
In trotting round the pen. sniffing at his
unfortunate brother, Warrigal stepped on
the trap-door, which swung and dropped him
into the pit, then immediately readjusted
itself. One. day an inquisitive swagman was
precipitated into the dug-out, and found him-
self looking into the gleaming eyes of an
emaciated dingo. His dog followed, and a
fight started which kept Swaggy on the hop
for a few anxious moments. The dingo, how-
ever, was weak from starvation, and was
soon vanquished. The survivors remained
there till;sundown, when two timber-splitters
looked in to see the catch.
“G.G.6” : That the working bullock makes
prime beef after being pensioned off and fat-
tened (B. 9/9/’3l) has long been recognised
on western Queensland runs. As “Murrun-
gurry” says, the sophisticated habits of the
“cows” make them more, apt to put on good
beef in their retirement than the active
young bloods of the village. There is an-
other reason also. Everyone knows that
when an athlete retires his greatest trouble
is to prevent the replacement of muscle with
soft, fatty flesh. That is precisely the case
with old Baldy when he takes his pension,
and lie has no need to worry about getting
fat.
AN HONEST SCOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On winter nights, when winds draw south
And dark trees sway and moan,
Old Sandy sits wi’ pipe i’ mouth
Within his hut, alone.
I’pon the low bark roof the rain
In soothing patter falls, .
But somewhere by the grass-tree plain
A prowling dingo calls.
With flashing glance of lifelong ire
He lifts his grey eyes keen
To where, above the bloodwood fire,
There hangs a rifle clean.
The wild dog’s wailing dies away;
A muffled thunder rolls;
Ih‘ settles down to watch the play
Of firelight in the coals.
Ilis snug log hut is trim and clean;
From blackened rafters swing
Good bacon flitches, and between
Brown onions on a string.
A round camp-oven on a hearth,
With pipeclay beautified ;
A hardened floor of antbed earth,
A cupboard well supplied;
And green-hide hobbles on a nail,
With supple stockwhip coiled,
A shotgun—seldom known to fail —
Its locks and barrels oiled ;
A saddle very smooth of seat.
With, stirrups burnished bright—
Small things'in'place and order neat
Bespeak a careful wight.
His sheds that smell 'of lucerne hay
And apples held in store,
The bean rows in their green array,
The rosebush by the door;
All things aboon the placed express
A simple, frugal taste ;
A Scotsman’s thrift and tidiness,
His toil and hate of waste.
Now Sandy Mac has never wed ;
He neither reads nor writes;
No woman bakes his damper bread
soothes or sours his nights.
He kens the Bush ; but as he goes
About his. open run,
The near or furthest neighbor knows
He’s honest as the sun.
No cleanskin in that careless land
Will bear by range or track
The earmark or the searing-brand
Of dour old Sandy Mac.
Though all that lawless Bush uphold
A duffer is no thief.
His pickle-cask will never hold
, An ounce of stolen beef.
He sometimes comes on Sunday morn,
Dressed in his Sunday clothes;
And always brings our youngest born
An apple or a rose.
They know old Sandy off by heart;
They ken his life is lone:
They brew him tea and then they start
The household gramophone.
They play the braw Scots tunes aglee—
“Loch Lomond” is his choice,
But bold “Blue Bonnets of Dundee”
Will make his soul rejoice.
Spurred heels beat time upon the f100r....
This little shrivelled man
He fills, with Claverhouse, once more
The fighting cup and can.
The claymore in his hand he feels;
He treads the northern heath —
’Tis music that, such times, reveals
The real man beneath.
O’ wunther nichts when winds draw sooth,
An’ tall trees groan an’ throw.
Auld Sandy sits wi’ pipe i’ mooth,
An’ dreams aboot it a’; •
O’ Sabbath morn auld Sandy rides
To Brady, of Raheen.
Although a mental ocean glides
These kindred souls between.
They meet upon a neutral .shore
No Sassenach has seen.
Where flaunt in racial pride once more
The tartan and the green.
As brithers in a foreign land,
Wi’ all the rest forgot,
We tak’ each itlier by the hand —
The Irish and the Scot.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“EOTHEN”
sdf
[PAYING GUESTS
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
[unexcelled cuisine
\ GARAGE
Inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
““*• Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
jVLL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia H'ouse, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SERVICE
The establishment of a Bank does not in itself establish a Banking
Service. It provides only the machinery which is to be operated by
man for the service of man. The human factor is the vital spark
that gives life to a mere aggregation of buildings, books and currency,
and makes of them a friendly, helpful service for the convenience of
the people.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank extends its facilities throughout
the length and breadth of Australia, through Branches and Post-office
Agencies, and trained officers translate those facilities into understand-
ing human service to the thrifty.
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
m
*
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
SMOKE-OH!
And another name for it is the State
Lootery.
HERE’S SERVICE FOR YOU!
INSURANCE PROSPECT: “If I sign this 'ere, 'ow long would it be
before the old woman could draw the three ’undred quid?”
CANVASSER: “As soon as we can get the doctor to run over you,
sir.”
It is the cranks we' object to in machine
politics.
* *
“After the service, a meal is provided for the
men.” —Church announcement.
“They came to scoff but stayed to pray”:
That saying, now, is off.
The sinners come to pray to-day,
But they remain to scoff.
* *
AND NOW—POLITICIANS’ WEEK.
Intense interest is being manifested in
the celebrations attending the very latest
in weeks. The Governor, eschewing the
usual Boy Scout uniform in favor of the
more appropriate straightjacket, officially
opened the festivities. He delivered a strik-
ing speech crammed with lurid expletives, in
the course of which someone threw a bottle
at him.
Mr. Crook, M.L.A., in the Domain yester-
day unveiled a statue of a distinguished Aus-
tralian, Mr. Edward (“Ned”) Kelly, “whose
work (he said) would ever be an inspiration
to political thinkers, and to whose modus
operandi the Legislature owed so much in
its taxation enactments.”
At the bar of the House last night, in an
atmosphere of great conviviality, members
discussed the works of some of the Great
Masters. Excerpts were delivered from
Ananias, Caligula, Morgan, Baron Mun-
chausen and Barnum.
A typical letter of appreciation from a
constituent:—•
Dear Sir, —On the occasion of this festive
week I seize this opportunity of tendering
a tangible expression of goodwill. Enclosed
is a small packet of arsenic, to be taken in
your matutinal coffee. The results should
be surprisingly beneficial —to the State. —
Yours etc, Edward Endemall.
S. W. K.
“Asked why he had set the house on fire, accused
said, ‘For a joke.’ ”
A form of light connjdy.
* ’ *
“Accused, charged with falsifying accounts, said
that one director had threatened to discharge him
if he didn’t, while another said he would be dis-
missed if he did.”
He was between two fires, in a manner
of speaking.
* *
APPLIED ART.
“Two men, charged with breaking into an office,
told the caretaker they were book-keepers employed
by the firm.”
They might, or might not, ere they sinned,
Have labored as accounting gentry ;
Still, their attempt to raise the wind
Proved they were smart at double entry!
P.
* *
SALUTE!
“Yes, Jack’ll do me all right!”
The crowded bar. filled with men of all
classes who would gladly have watched the
Pride of Auburn go over the Gap, stood pet-
rified. The prosper-
ously-dressed speaker
proceeded defiantly:
“I hope they never
toss him out.' Every
time I see his photo
I hoist my Akubra to
the best-looking thing
I know. His features
have a dam’ sight
more appeal for me
than those of Ronald
Colman. Good old
Jacko!”
A bystander tried
argument. “Our Pre-
mier may have done
wonders for the
wage-plugs, but not
even his most enthu-
siastic admirer has
dared to put forward
claims to beauty on
his behalf. Who are
you, sir? The Offi-
cial Assignee, or Lot-
tery Manager, or
what?”
“Nothing like that,
old man. I’m a car-
toonist.”
* *
UNEMPLOYED.
Everyone at the
holiday resort was
curious about the
quiet boarder who
appeared to have
nothing to do. At
last it was decided to
question the pro-
prietor.
. “Name of Newman.” was the answer. “A
billiard-player. He’s playing a match now.”
“But he hasn’t been near the billiard-
table since he came here.”
“That’s right. He’s playing Lindrum.”
Ced.
* *
“Slugs in milk jugs.”— “S. M. Herald.”
You also find them in milk bills.
* ¥
“The best cure for tale-pitching boy ‘ineorrigibles’
is a schoolmaster who isn’t afraid to use the stick.”
—Sydney magistrate.
The idea being that an occasional whack-
ing Squeers their pitch.
* *
“A maniac in Poland slew his mother-in-law, his
wife’s brother and an uncle with a scythe.”— Cable.
It’s known elsewhere as severing relations
with the family.
* ¥
PROPHYLACTIC.
“Alexander Bush said he only chastised his wife,
Eliza, to break her of using bad language.”
He realised his duty sad
And hastened to chastise her;
Her language was so very bad
He had to stir Eliza.
* *
“London may be reached by ’plane within four
days before 1940.”
At present, however, it’s only a flight of
fancy.
BRIGHTER DAYS.
My troubles have lightened, Pm thankful
to say;
I no longer have cause to despond.
My wife, who was dark when she left home
to-day,
Has just dyed and turned into a blonde,
AMONG THE OPTIMISTS.
“Restoration of confidence our greatest
need!” But where’s the shortage? Con-
sider some cases :—-
Owner of Minnie Golf Coursette has been
negotiating to sell out to man who, unfor-
tunately, has all his money
locked up in the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Savings Bank. So
far the Minnie man has re-
leased credits to his prospect
to the extent of ss. 7d. and
several beers.
Writer’s landlord called for
rent yesterday and didn’t get
it. After listening to explana-
tion of position he said: “I
quite understand. I’ll let it
stand over and collect the lot
next week.” There was a dis-
tinct note of confidence in his
voice.
No attempt has been made
by politicians to reduce their
salaries despite rumors of in-
sufficient revenue. Clearly
they are confident of their
ability to collect the amount
■ of salary they are confident
they are earning.
J. P.
* *
ON SLEEPERS.
A sleeper is one who sleeps.
Also that in which the sleeper
sleeps. Likewise that on
which the sleeper runs while
the sleeper sleeps. Therefore,
while the sleeper sleeps in the
sleeper, the sleeper carries the
sleeper over the sleeper under
the. sleeper, unless the sleeper
which carries the sleeper
jumps the sleeper and wakes
the sleeper in the sleeper by
striking the sleeper under the
sleeper on the sleeper, in
which case there will no
longer be any sleeper sleeping
in the sleeper on the sleeper.
K. D.
“A London doctor says that kissing is unhealthy
and should be discountenanced.”
Nevertheless, it’s going to survive as long
as the average pretty girl lends countenance
to it.
EXPLANATION.
“She is a butterfly!” folks say,
Whose aim is but to flit
Within the sunshine of each day,
Malang the most of' it.
She is the toast of quite a host
Of men. That may be why;
For, as a rule , it is the toast
That makes the butter fly.
“Beekeeper chased on overturning a hive.”
Well, he got a run for his honey.
FOLLOWING THE TREND.
The “Brewers’ Journal” has pleasure in
announcing that publication will begin next
week of a powerful series of articles from
the pen of a well-known lady publican, en-
titled “Can Love Survive the D.T.’s?” Read
also “Great Loves of Famous Breweresses,”
by “One of Them,” and be sure to get our
free pattern of a splash-proof frock for bar
wear.
An arresting answer to a vital question—
“Sex Inhibitions of Early Potatoes.” Order
your copy of the “Gardeners’ Weekly” now.
Other splendid features of its new Women’s
Section include “Favorite Flowers of Famous
Philanderers” and the exciting reminiscences
of a flower-show detective. Watch out for
our powerful serial, “Bone Dust,” the story
of a girl’s disillusion.
Every woman loves bric-a-brac. Make
your drawing-room the eiavy of your friends
by manufacturing choice concrete kniclc-
knacks in your spare time. For instructions
see this month’s “Cement Journal,” which
also contains a thrilling crime article by a
new woman writer, “Bodies That Have Been
Buried Under Concrete.”
Have you entered yet for the “Sport's”
daintiest knee-dimple competition? Both
you and your horse are eligible. Every book-
maker’s wife, whether permanent or tem-
porary, will simply adore our free design
for a hand-knitted stomacher for the spring
meetings. A Q , c
* *
“Flints of fire sprang from her eyes as she turned
upon him.”— “Storyteller.”
Serve him right for chipping her.
* ¥
RARA AVIS.
The municipality was en fete. The Mayor
had decided to welcome the celebrity at the
Town Hall in person, with the Town Clerk
and aldermen in respectful attendance. A
veritable red-letter day! The car pulled up
at the kerb, the band played a welcoming
air, and the civic fathers escorted their hero
into the building. Here at a wure-barred
counter the final ceremony was performed.
And at its conclusion, amidst the edified
cheers of the populace, departed the last
remaining ratepayer who was not working
his rates off. y
QUESTION OF PRONUNCIATION.
‘lt seems that the common mispronunciation of
the word ‘contrary’ is directly attributable to the
familiar verse commencing ‘Mary, Mary, quite con-
trary.’ ” — “Argus.”
So it’s Mary, Little Mary, who’s to blame
because “ contrary”
Is in use habitually, though illicit;
Still, we cannot hold her guilty of our plans
fiduciary,
Nor blame her for our horrible deficit.
But her character to tiny shreds we’d very
quickly tear
If we could prove, by methods straight or
devious,
That she is at the bottom of the fiscal
schemes they rear
Which turn, out so confoundedly mis-
chievious.
When the poet, seeking scansion in his hour
of urge creative;
Stretches license to a limit hardly bear-
able,
The result, though pleasant-sounding, is not
always indicative
Of the harm he does our language—irre-
parable.
B.K.
SEEN IN THE LOTTERY QUEUE.
(By Our Social Editress.)
Hon. Jas. Garnishee, whose £50,000 bank-
ruptcy was one of the sensations of last
year,. _ was early in the line this morning,
sporting an odd pair of sandshoes and a
chic double vest of “S.M.H.’s.”
That the lottery makes democrats of us
all was evidenced by the appearance at 7.30
a.m. of Mrs. Hugo de Gush and her chauf-
REPRIEVED—IN MODERATION.
VICTIM: “Won’t his Majesty grant a
reprieve?”
CANNIBAL: “No; hut in view of the extenu-
ating circumstances he has agreed that
you shall be a trifle underdone!”
feur, both of whom battled for a place with
the best of them. Excitedly waving their
tickets they fought a way back to the Rolls
Royce at 12.30.
Mrs. Girlie Bunkke, who, it will be re-
membered, was awarded £5O a week alimony
last month, was noticed buying a tenner’s
worth. Let’s hope her luck still holds.
To the observing eye of the fashion expert
the most noticeable feature of this popular
rendezvous is the absence of overcoats. The
weather is certainly warming up, but a little
bird whispers that the real explanation of
the phenomenon is the open-handedness of
HAVE YOU EVER TRIED THIS?
“What’s making you look so old, Smith?”
“Trying to keep young.”
“Trying to keep young?”
“Yes—eleven of ’em!”
our Hebrew fellow-citizens where overcoats
are concerned. Many are running to the
price of three tickets per coat.
A. O’C.


n
Hi
mgmmm
mm
k
n
(
Y
&
cJ/tet' every
1000
Miles
drain
and refill
*A possibility, Mr: Nicol, certainly.
My advice is play safe, drain and
refill regularly. ”
DrIVE 1,000 miles .... and
10,000 minute particles of grit,
road dust, and metal will find
their way into the oil and impair
lubrication. These, with carbon,
and dilution will contaminate
any oil, even Mobiloil, the
World’s Best, in spite of filters and similar devices. ♦
The further you travel on the old oil the greater the
risk of serious wear and tear and final breakdown. ♦
A safe habit is to drain and refill with Mobiloil every
1,000 miles and get longer engine life; better perform-
ance; fewer repair bills; higher trade-in value. ♦ Ask
your garageman to remind you regularly about drain-
ing and chassis lubrication. Let him help you to keep
your car alwavs in tip top condition.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
H
Si
Mo 1 1 il oil
REG?
9le Worlds Quality Oil
IMIO
SHADOW SHOWS.
A clerical correspondent objects to The
Bulletin’s remark that “City of Song’’
“doesn’t derive from anywhere'but England”
on the ground that it was directed and photo-
graphed by foreigners. It is the knowledge
that counts. “City of Song” begins by show-
ing real English people on the Continent; in
previous films the alleged English have
behaved like Americans. In the London
scenes the streets, atmosphere, interiors,
voices, clothes and mannerisms of the char-
acters are as English as the Strand. Those
responsible knew enough to censor cars with
left-hand drives, comic butlers and speak-
easies masquerading as West End night
clubs; to shoNv the reactions of wealthy
English travellers to Europe, and of an in-
digent European to) the luxury life of Eng-
land. Hence a genuine English film —one of
the rarest spectacles in Moviedom.
* H- *
Paramount’s “Kick In” at Sydney Capitol
may be related to the fact that at the end
of last year there were 245,000 people in
gaol and 132,000 known murderers at large
in the U.S.A. It represents a big audience
when relations and friends are included. The
undesirables are policemen and the likeable
characters crooks and ex-crooks. Regis
Toomey, the hero, is first seen on the day he
is freed after doing two years. Cla«ra Bow
—a very subdued Clara, for this is her first
picture since the De Voe case—meets him,
anc j t j iey are we i com ed in the city by her
brother, who drugs, and a kindly gunman and
his wife, who have looked after her during
Toomey’s absence. But the director isn’t
interested in them. His aim is to show the
malignity of their enemies. In other crime
m” la ”’ furrief to the -ates past a barrage
who first
£££ 0 the scene and marks
Jg* *****im c«JMon
thg benevo i ent g UUman commits a diamond
rnhherv all liis friends lincludinff •Juliette
oSSLi, Superb S a TefSJf English
malefactor) are arrested and treated shock-
—gjy. T be picture goes to the pack at this
stage, Toomey, who is the innocent bailee of
the diamonds, being crazy enough to hand
them to his old enemy on a promise of
immunity. The happy ending is even more
absurd. The only value of the film, apart
from the acting and some of the earlier
shots, consists in the light it casts on social
conditions in the U.S.A.
also at the Capitol, is a well-
acted and -photographed version of a once-
popular melodrama. Laura La Plante is
the lady who is thrown over by a philander-
ing subaltern, marries his colonel out of
spite, and gets to love the colonel and hate
the sub.; and June Clyde is her flapper
sister who vamps and marries the subaltern.
Miss La Plante is an appealingly feminine
victim of pashun, and the Clyde lass is an
exasperatingly tempestuous and self-satisfied
husband-snatcher. The colonel is the pick
of the cast, but his identity is wrapped in
mystery so far as this critic is concerned.
The Capitol, like most movie palaces, sup-
plies an advertisement dodger instead of a
programme, and the screen only runs to a
list of mostly unfamiliar names.
¥ * ¥
Elissa Landi, of “Always Good-bye,” at
Sydney Regent, is said to be England’s'
answer to Greta Garbo. She is a sensuous
creature, but otherwise bears no resemblance
to the mask-faced robot-like Swede. She has
vivacity, a well-covered figure of long, flow-
ing lines and a beautiful voice. The play is
nothing much, but it enables her to display
all her gifts. When the bailiffs are remov-
ing her furniture, and a doddering admirer
calls to propose, she is a sophisticated Lon-
doner. The youth she loves turns her down,
and she becomes a stricken girl. In the
slum where she takes a rat-infested room
she registers disgust and terror, and when
she is inveigled into visiting Lewis Stone’s
villa on Lake Como with a crook —the crook’s
objective, though she doesn’t know it, is
Stone’s safe —her moral qualities and the
dawn of her love for Stone are displayed.
It is all done with art and girlish charm,
and she is better-looking than Garbo, but
she lacks Garbo’s celebrated atmosphere of
mystery —a matter, chiefly, of reducing words,
gestures and facial expressions to a minimum
—so she may never cause more excitement
than Edna Best, whom she recalls in tech-
nique and articulation. Paul Cavanagh is
a finished burglar of the “Raffles” school,
and he is exposed by a Scotland Yard official
with the hyper-gentlemanly voice of an ad.-a-
talk announcer. Lewis Stone has a good
part marred by a ranting sermon towards
the end. when he unjustly suspects Miss
Landi of burgling his safe. This is a Fox
' film, but it is more English than many 8.1.
productions.
The subsidiary at the Regent is “Laugh
and Get Rich.” Hugh Herbert, the muddling
husband of Edna May Oliver, a boarding-
house-keeper, takes up the invention of a
young man who loves his daughter. You can
guess what happens. He also buys oil shares,
and the family crash society’s gates on the
strength of an evanescent gusher. Miss
Oliver gets hilariously tight at a party, and
very likeable and amusing she is in that con-
dition. She differs here from Australia’s
recent critic Maisie Gay, whose drunk scenes
contain a lugubrious gutter note. The dia-
logue isn’t brilliant, but it gets the laughs.


sd
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
9S PRODUCERS f/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. k 0. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents; Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. =
Plum Razor Guard
'•V>
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
me PLUM RAZOR
| in.
blades.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case —
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LISEED MEAL
REDUCING WHEAT-FARM COSTS.
How can the wheat-farmer, by his . own
efforts, reduce Ms costs of production?
experimentalist Clayton, of the
N.S.\\. Agricultural Department, addressed
liimsell to this question in a lecture delivered
a? d lawkesbury College, and reported m the
N.S.W. Agricultural 'Gazette,” and his reply
is that it can be done by the improvement
of acre yields That means a substantial
extension of fallowing, especially m the dry
districts. In those districts great areas are
still sown on non-fallowed land, yet ‘ faced
"OU 1 low prices, the farmers there cannot
afford to grow wheat on stubble land. Stubbie
cropping should only be practised under
special circumstances, such as in pioneering
districts where the grower lias insufficient
cleared land to utilise the plant fully.
And not only must fallowing be increased ;
it must be improved. Where land is not
worked to the best advantage, the full bene-
fit of fallowing cannot be obtained. Field
experiments on the Government farm at
Wagga .show that long summer fallowing did
not profitably improve the yield, and need
not be carried out except as a means of eradi-
eating black oats. But experiments here and
at Temora showed that cultivation in spring
is very necessary. ‘‘When it was omitted
and the fallow w T as not cultivated until Feb-
ruary, and then again m March, the average
yield was 16 bushels ; where the fallow was
cultivated m August, October, February and
March the average yield was 21 bushels.”
And acre yields may be improved by grow-
ing more suitable varieties. Mr. Clayton
lias a strong partiality for Nabawa. This
Westralian wheat, he says, “has shown
remarkable resistance to flag smut; it
lias the ability to yield well over a
wide range of wheat soils and climatic
conditions, and consequently it could be
grown over a very large area of the
State, and on much of the area- at pre-
sent devoted to flag-smut-liable varieties
such as Federation, Canberra, Hard Federa-
tion and Union.”
Diversification is another important matter.
One-crop farming tends to increase flag
smut, takeall and footroot; on the southern
slopes, where the country is undulating, it
leads to loss of soil by surface washing and
gulleymg each year. With diversification
come better farming practices, which admit
of maintaining the production of wheat
even when the sown area has been reduced,
Lucerne is the best supplementary crop the
farmer can grow. It has been successfully
introduced into wheat areas, and fat-lamb
raising, dairying and pig-raising are now be-
coming more popular. Field-peas also offer
good possibilities.
Of course wheat must remain the staple,
if not the only, crop in arid districts. In
such districts, Mr. Clayton avers, “most
relief from the overhead expenses must come
from an increase in crop area. It is most
imperative that a sufficiently large area be
cropped to utilise plant to full capacity. On
much of the malice lands the soils are light
in texture, and the cost of tillage relatively
low, making it possible, therefore, to crop
larger unit areas. Provided land values are
low, cropping may be profitable on much
lower acre yields than in other districts.”
rpT-TT7i \rat'/tt' poqtttow
-r r, MAIZE PObITION -
W. L. Osborne (who is chairman of the
Queensland Maize-growers’ Council) : I
should like to have a word or two with any
maize-growers who, consequent upon the
statements made by “Mealie” (B. 26/8/’3l).
may be tempted to increase their acreages
under this crop in the present planting
season. Maize, for some years neglected
by farmers, is coming into favor again,”
‘ Mealie ’ says; he goes on to demonstrate
how a 90-bushel yield off land worth £5O per
acre would cost 2s. id. per bushel to produce,
and states that "with the average Sydney
price at 3s. 6d. there would be a profit on
these figures.” He is a brave man who
would express the belief that “averaige”
prices calculated over past years will obtain
for any primary product during the next
few years! What of the big wheat surplus
—the result of the injunction to “Grow
More Wheat”—which must be exported to
an unsympathetic and well-nigh bankrupt
overseas world, to realise what it will? In
Queensland the fact that the Government
has guaranteed 4s. per bushel for all of last
season’s first-grade wheat enables the Wheat
Board to now’ offer slightly damaged full-
grain wheat at 2s. 9d. and chick wheat at
2s. 3d. Naturally for many fodder purposes
wb ®at * s being substituted for maize,
1 f > Sef”s
exce llent quality. Many Soutii Burnett
growers are now harvesting bumper crops,
whilst in many cases that harvested 12
mo ntlis ago is still in the husk in the barns.
Many individual growers are holding 3000
bushels; one at least is holding over 30,(XX)
—and the present local price on rails is
ls _ Bd . per bushel. I have seen a 100-bushel
crop taken from unfertilised South Burnett
land va i ued a t £l2 per acre. Rail freight
f ro m Brisbane to Sydney costs per
bushel; charges if forwarded by boat are
B j d . Queensland’s average annual surplus
pro duction of maize during the five years
ended 1929 was 3,646,296 bushels, which has
practically all been absorbed by the other
States. The average N. S. Wales production
over the same period has shown an annual
shortage of 206,577 bushels, but present indi-
cations are that production now equals con-
sumption. Victoria’s average shortage is
1.908,848 bushels; South Australia’s. 869 980
bushels; Westralia’s, 624,578 bushels,
Queensland maize being unloaded upon the
Sydney market, which a superfluity of wheat
has already depressed, has brought prices
there down to less than 35., but owing to the
fact that unfinancial circumstances make it
imperative for most of onr growers to realise
0 n their crops, the low prices are likely to
continue
The South Burnett, Darling Downs and
West Moreton districts are eminently suited
for maize production, but in view of de-
creased consumption of the product in Aus-
tralia and the fact that export values are
quite unprofitable (recent Liverpool quota-
tions, £3 17s. to £4 10s. per ton) the council
at a recent meeting unanimously recommended
growers to reduce areas under cultivation for
maize and allow portion of existing maize
land to revert to pasture. So can the pros-
pects be said to be such as to encourage
N. S. Wales maize-growers to bring the crop
“into favor again”,?
GET RID OF THE CULLS!
“Murrawong” ; When a factory finds that
one of its lines is a drug on the market and
can only be got rid of at a loss, it stops
manufacturing that article. Not so sheep-
men of a certain sort; hundreds of them are
breeding from mongrel stock, and breeding
again from their progeny-—yielding coarse,
straight, dog-haired fleeces. Yet there never
was a time when it was so necessary that
quality in wool, rather than quantity at the
expense of quality, should he the paramount
consideration in breeding. A good sheep
eats no more than a bad sheep, and where
the margin of profit is small it means that
the good sheep lias to carry the bad one to
the exclusion of that margin,
Drastic culling alone is not the remedy,
The culls must be turned into mutton and
their fleeces kept off the shearing board. It
is the dealer rather than the breeder who
is at the bottom of the trouble. A station
culls its ewes and puts the rejects on the
market. They are snapped up by a dealer
who, if he cannot see an immediate sale,
joins the rams (also culls) to get all he can
out of them. The station benefits by the
deal, the buyer of the culls benefits, but the
standard of Australian w*ool suffers. We
will continue to receive complaints about
the deterioration of our wool from overseas
until culling of mongrels from a flock has
some meaning of finality.
BRAXY-LIKE SHEEP DISEASE,
The braxy-like disease which has been
worrying sheepmen in the older settled parts
0 f Westralia has been carefully investigated
by officers of the State Department of Agri-
culture and of the Council for Scientific
an d Industrial Research, and an interesting-
advance account of fheir operations, to be
amplified in a future issue, is given in the
council’s “Journal” for August. The disease
is acute and infectious, and there are indi-
cations that it is not confined to Westralia—it
is apparently identical with the so-called black
disease reported in other parts. Animals
in good condition are attacked between April
and October. They go down without warn-
ing symptoms, and putrefaction after death
is rapid.
The evidence is that the disease, to
which the name “entero-toxsemia” has been
given, is due to the development of enormous
numbers of the causal bacillus in the small
intestines of sheep in good condition and
feeding on rich pastures low in fibre content.
The bacteria develop a highly poisonous
material, which is absorbed into the system.
These bacteria, like others of their class,
have their normal habitat in rich soils. In
short, the disease is confined to cultivated,
particularly well-improved, areas. It does not
occur on bush lands, and the incidence may
be checked by transferring affected flocks
to uncultivated pastures.
A vaccine has been developed and 10,000
sheep are being vaccinated during the current
season. Added control measures are the
feeding of roughage, exercise, avoidance of
close grazing; immediate disposal of car-
cases and the use of laxative licks.
A LAMB-MARKING DEVICE.
“Kripple” : J. Y. Shannon, an enterprising
Central Queensland grazier, completed his
lamb-marking operations with* the aid of a
simple though most ingenious contrivance
which showed remarkable results. The
gadget, any number of which may be used
side by side, takes the form of operating-tables
in open-ended cradle shape, with a cleverly
designed piece of framework which in a
moment secures lambs in the best position for
markers; and that without gripping the
patients.
On Mr. Shannon’s run eight cradles were
set up along the old marking fence, and a
team of five (eight or nine had been the pre-
vious quota) got to work. Two catchers
and an ear-marker were in the catching yard,
castrator and tarboy in the releasing yard.
Catchers working from left to right slipped
lambs into the cradles, where in a trice
they were secured in their inverted position
with hind-legs apart. Ear-marker followed,
doing his job on the row of heads lying in
front of him, unobstructed by holder’s chest
or shoulders as formerly. Castrator and tar-
boy did their tail-end work. Catchers
doubled back and released by a simple move-
ment of the inner frame, followed by a tip
of the cradle, which landed the lambs gently
on all fours, immediately reloading. Opera-
tions went on with macliine-liko precision.
Timed, the five hands put through over 500
lambs per hour. With two or three of these
contrivances on small places two men could
easily cope with the marking. It would be
possible for one to mark his lambs in small
lots.
Prominent C.Q. graziers visited Rodney
Downs to witness the'device at work and the
opinion w T as freely expressed that sitting
lambs, manually held, on a fence for mark-
ing will become obsolete in the near future.
Other points that appealed to the visitors
were that all sizes of lambs can be cradled;
nothing can get out of order; installation
shouldn’t cost more than 355. per cradle;
and there is no waste in any shape or form.
PREPARE FOR SUMMER!
“Liss” : Now is the time to overhaul water
improvements in readiness for the hot
weather. It is far better to get ;this done
early than to have things go wrong in mid-
summer, when you may be forced to do the
work in a hurry, perhaps at night, and
almost certainly with a mob of thirsty stock
hanging round the empty troughs.
Draw the rods from sub-bores, grind in
the valves (if of the mushroom or semi-
ball varieties), renew the leathers and paint
the rods with coal tar, applied boiling hot.
Go over the windmill with a spanner, and
tighten any loose bolts; renew the oil in
the sump, if your mill has one, and clean
out all siphon oil-holes, renewing the wool
wick. Having put the pump down again
and coupled up, do not fail to let the mill
run for a few days to work in the new
leathers, and so prevent them swelling while
stationary.
Where suction pumps are used on dams
and excavations, renew all washers, leather
valves and packing, not forgetting the foot
valve. As this water is generally muddy,
take the opportunity to clean out the supply
tanks, and paint the insides with boiling
coal tar in which resin, about lib. to 4gal.,
has been dissolved, applying two coats. The
same with the tanks at the bores.
Look to the balls and valves in your
troughs and see that the valves do not drip
when closed. If the trough has become at
all pitted with holes stop them with gal-
vanised roofing bolts, putting these through
from the inside and using a piece of old
motor-tube as a washer under the.head;
apply two coats of the hot resin-tar mixture.
Lastly, if you depend to any great extent
on bores for your water, and have an engine
and pump-head for emergency use, make sure
that should such an emergency arise they
are in a fit condition to deal with it.
IS THE MIDDLEMAN ALL TO BLAME?
“Ex-Grower”: Many fruitgrowers who
receive low returns from the wholesale
market attribute them to the fact that they
have to pay too much for the services of the
intermediary. Attacking the middleman and
quoting his alleged big profits seems to be
as far as many of them go in their inquiring
into the low prices they obtain. If they
thought less about the exactions of the
middleman and more about their own defi-
ciencies they might arrive at more profitable
results. They might find that most of the
low returns could be attributed to lack of
standardisation of their product and to lack
of organisation among themselves.
With an odd exception most lines of fruit
and similar produce come to the wholesale
markets in a variety of grades, and with
little relation to the actual market require-
ments. This is not to say that some grow-
ers are not doing their part in putting a
good-quality, standardised line on the market.
But the efficient, conscientious growers suffer
from the effect of the disorganised market
brought about by the irregular supply of
unevenly graded fruit.
Some sections of the fruit industry are
no doubt so situated that better grading and
more effective organisation are difficult of
attainment; but iu such instances it is fairer
t 0 recognise the position than to throw all
the blame on the middleman, who no doubt
would be in a position to give cheaper and
better service if the industries concerned
maintained regular supplies of a more
marketable product.
HOME-MADE DRAINS.
‘‘Mulgo”: An open drain at the back of
a house or dairy shed is always objectionable
and unhealthy, besides being untidy. Where
much greasy water is thrown out it attracts
flies. A proper drain can be made by any
handy man with either small hollow logs or
6in. by lin. hardwood boards. The outlet
should be at least a chain from the house,
on a slope, and for this long hollow logs of
small diameter are suitable. These, however,
are only obtainable in well-timbered country,
while the boards can always be got. All that
is necessary for each length is to nail four
together in the form of a long box or cylinder,
leaving the bottom one projecting ' a few
inches at one end, and that much short at
the other end.
For the sink, take a small section of a
hollow log, cleaniy chipped out, or make a
hardwood box about 15in. square and a foot
deep, and cut a piece out of one side for
the drain to fit into. Three inches below the
top nail half-inch pieces of hardwood, and
then cut a strong piece of perforated gal-
vanised-iron to rest on them and fit closely
all round. Place in a hole about 14in. deep,
then make a slope into it all round from
the surface of the ground with cement.
Another way is to make the sink with con-
crete, or with old bricks e r stones and
cement.
If it is necessary to prevent odors, con-
nect sink and drain with an elbow that will
retain water —cut to shape from two short
slabs, with a concrete bottom. Where there
is a clear short run to a bank or slope,
however, this will not be needed. When the
ground is level, the drain may be run into
a shallow pit, and if that is covered a small
hollow sapling, about 7ft. long, erected over
or near it, makes a suitable vent or air-pipe.
Another kind of simple drain can be made
with cement, either with rounded or square
sides, like an open drain, but topped with
slabs and covered with earth. This is always
easy to get at, and . the top can be iifled
anywhere if there is a blockage. Some
farmers make a drain simply by laying two
slabs in the form of a triangle and placing
another slab on top. The bottoms of the
side slabs, where they come together, are
bevelled with the adze. Still another form
is made with small hollow logs, split in
halves, and topped with slabs. It doesn't
matter whether the top of a drain fits closely
or not, as long as it will keep the vovering
soil from dropping in.
FLOOD FENCES.
“Mulyan”: Ordinary fences crossing low
ground that is now and again swept by
rushing waters have usually to be repaired
or replaced after every flood. These spots
are too wide for flood-rails, which are used
in creeks and gullies where the line crosses,
but may be spanned by a flood fence of a
somewhat similar construction, if the water
never reaches higher than within a foot of
the top wire. Put in stout straining-posts
half a chain or more apart, and between
each two place three droppers instead of
the usual posts, and one at each strainer.
The droppers are 3in. x 2in., and are not
sunk in the ground. Through the top holes
of droppers and posts run two No. 8 wires,
twisted together, and strain tightly. Run
the rest of the wires through the droppers
only, and hook the bottoms of the end ones
to. the strainers, so that they will give way
with the first rush of water. As the flood
rises the whole span swings up, allowing
all rubbish to pass underneath, and as the
water recedes the fence drops back into its
place, and has only to be hooked to the
strainers again.
In places where floodings reach the height
or more than the height of a fence, the
double-wire must be run through the bottom
holes of the droppers and strainers, the
other wires through the droppers only, and
the . end ones hooked to the top of the
strainers, so that they will give with the
pressure of water and allow the whole span
to drop flat on the ground. When the flood
has passed it is only necessary to lift it back
into its place.
(Continued on Page 26.)


At the word<GO
A touch of the Start-
er and the engine
leaps into life.
£
*
as
IB
MW-
i ju.
That’s the way a Dag-
enite works .. pouring
out generous power
. . . stirring the most
stubborn engine. Two
famous British battery
firms have joined all
their resources, put to-
gether all their know-
ledge to produce
DAGENITE Batteries;
now produced i n
Australia.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, Box 71, G.P.0., Melbourne
DA.GENITE
BATTERIES
Lime improves your Land
APPLIM
BRAND
Agricultural Lime
Goes further, Acts quicker, Costs less
“Applim” Agricultural Lime is 95 p.c. Calcium
Carbonate. It is finely pulverised and can thus be
spread economically. It is readily soluble and
reacts quickly.
WHAT “APPLIM” DOES
Liberates potash and phosphates
Decomposes organic matter
Promotes nitrification
Corrects soil acidity
Makes clay soil friable
Tends to bind sandy soil
Stimulates bacterial activity
Promotes soil fertility
Thus plant food is made available, the soil is
sweetened and crops and pasture are vastly im-
proved.
NOTE. —An application of “ Applim ” before
sowing lucerne or clover practically ensures a good
stand.
Write for technical booklet.
Price (in 10-ton lots), F.O.R. Footscray,
25/- per ton
AMMONIA PRODUCTS Pty., ltd..
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
, » M A
INTERNATIONAL 1-HORSE
PASTURE HARROW, sft. wide
x 6ft. deep, complete with
drawbar and drag 1 weights
£6:7:6 cash
INTERNATIONAL 2-HORSE
PASTURE HARROW, Bft. wide
x 6ft. deep, complete with
drawbar and drag weights
£9:17:6 cash
INTERNATIONAL 3-HORSE
PASTURE HARROW, 10ft. wide
x 6ft. deep, complete with
drawbar and drag weights
£12:15:0 cash
INTERNATIONAL 4-HORSE
PASTURE HARROW, 15ft. wide
x 6ft. deep, complete with
drawbar and drag weights
£18:15 :0 cash
I
Additional standard lines of Australian-
made farm machines and implements
will be offered from time to time at
correspondingly low prices.
IN ADDITION to the new lines of Australian-made Scarifiers and
Diamond Smoothing Harrows recently announced by us, we are
now introducing a new line of Australian-made International
Pasture Harrows. fThese new harrows are made entirely of steel.
The tripods are of mild steel and the tynes of hardened spring steel.
The tynes, which have two different working lengths, are hot
riveted to the tripods by two rivets and are thus held securely in
position. The pulverizing chain is scientifically designed. It consists
of a number of 3-inch square links so arranged as to insure thorough
pulverization and thorough spreading. If necessary, the pulverizing
chain can be detached from the harrow and used as a drag chain behind
the grain drill. It can also be used for spreading manure.
International Pasture Harrow is the perfect pasture harrow. It is re-
markably flexible and thus conforms exactly to irregularities in the
ground. It is an ideal implement for pasture renovation and at the prices
quoted above represents value unexcelled. You can purchase the new
International Pasture Harrow with confidence. Send your order to-day.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
229-231 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY
MAPI
strali a
1831—McCG €K REAPER CENTENNIAL—I93I
r ARMERS
P
Hm RurauTopics. Dairying.
r" Stockbreeding. Poultry.
B Horticulture. Veterinary
B- Notes Etc All in ..
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES &
THE PATRIOT
IDIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN J
AND ALL BRISBANE READS ?T.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNT Eli STREET.
vl<J
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier’ and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
27l Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret (Street, Sydney


■
V-
Better shape and greater
strength
A special last was designed for
this Abbey Boot. So, its supple,
glossy upper fits all the foot’s
curves without the least strain.
It laces closely. . . .sets easily
over the instep. And the sole is
double the usual strength....
made of two thicknesses of the
toughest obtainable leather. This
boot is guaranteed for longer
wear.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 45/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 247
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” ia re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 50/-
MEKCHANTS AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to hnow.
A
COMPOUND ESSENCE*
OF LINSEED
'^ or
Couchs
■ 9
% /
ry
hi
ii
NARCH
Cis<3/'s.
Craig sAitken
"Wholesale
Dislribulow
Sijdneq N.5.W.
Carbon/
mm
m
&
A costly nuisance which is paid for in wasted petrol.
Have you ever considered how much more mileage you
get from a gallon of petrol when your engine is free
from carbon.
Carbo-Solve will positively remove carbon deposits.
£, 10,000,000 of resources back Alemite Corporation’s
positive guarantee that Carbo-Solve will free your engine
from carbon. Full particulars sent on request.
ALEMITE CORPORATION * Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chlcago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives :
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd. .
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd.
E. A. MACHIN & CO (Pty), Ltd.
CORNELL LIMITED ' .
. . 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Brisbane
. . 894 Hay Street, Perth
535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
. 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
K-AUST-6
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Wliat percentages of proteins, carbo-
hydrates and fibre are necessary to form a
balanced ration for milking cows in A. Tast
(2) I have been advised to use a mixture of
tivo parts pro-eal-bonc, one part lime and
one part salt in cow’s food at the rate- of
4 os. per cow per day. Is this advisable? —2379.
(1) There should be one part bv weight of
digestible proteins to five or six parts by
weight of digestible carbo-hydrates. The
quantity of feed consumed by a cow may be
taken to be equivalent to 251 b. of dry matter
per day. Of this there should be 41b. of
protein feed and 201 b. of carbo-hvarates. A
common ration aiming at such a balance
might be swedes 501 b. to 601 b., hay 121 b. to
141 b., linseed cake 31b, to 41b. The amount
would vary with the size of tne cow and
the rate of milk production. A common
source of protein feed is bran, and substitut-
ing this for linseed you would require. 61b. to
81b. per day. Employment of lucerne or clover
hay would reduce the amount of bran, etc.,
used. The above is a complete ration for
cows in full milk, but when grazing on grass
and clover considerable variety in the sup-
plementary feed is permissible. (2) Yes. It
should counteract phosphatic deficiency, which
is common in N. Tas.
I intend to grow potatoes on irrigated
land. (1) What varieties give the best
yields? (2) Weight required to sow one
acre? (3) Approximate yield, per acre?
(4) Hoic long does crop take to mature? (5)
Proper time for planting? —ss39.
(1) Early Manistee or Factor. (2)
About lOcwt. (3) Can’t say. A lot depends
on soil and weather. (4) Approximately
three months. (5) August.
Is there an effective remedy for the fruit
fly? Last year peaches ripened indoors were
as badly affected as those that remained on
the tree. —5652.
Use a spray made of lgal. of fruit juice
or syrup, 41b. of molasses, Boz. of arsenate of
lead paste, or soz. of arsenate of lead
powder, 3gal. of water. If the spray is to
be applied to stone fruits, a strong syrup
should be made by boiling, say, from 41b. to
61b. of inferior peaches in lgal. of water
until they become pulpy. The liquid is then
strained off and made up to lgal. to replace
the water lost by evaporation during the
boiling. The spray is usually applied to
the foliage at the rate of Boz. to lOoz. per
tree, by some suitable spray apparatus or
syringe, not spraying the whole tree, but
just applying the mixture in two patches,
one on either side of the tree; care must be
taken, especially with poaches, to avoid the
fruit, as the spray is likely to adhere and
show on them. The first application should
be given about five weeks before the fruit is
harvested, and the treatment repeated at
intervals of seven days, five applications
thus being given in all. If rain occurs after
the spray lias been applied, a fresh appli-
cation will have to be made.
(1) Would the growing of almonds,
Q’land-nut and pecan-nut near Sydney be
profitable? (2) Yield per acre in full bear-
ing? (3) Average return per bushel? (4)
How marketed in Sydney? (5) Is there a
demand for Q’land-nut overseas? —5524.
(1) Almonds are not satisfactory in
N.S.W. coastal districts. The pecan-nut will
grow about Sydney, but to do really well
requires a soil several feet deep, preferably
of an alluvial nature. Q’land-nut will
grow in the less frosty parts about Sydney,
but the few trees that have come under
observation have not cropped heavily. (2),
(3) and (4) No data available. (5) If a
thin-shelled Q’land-nut of a fair size can
be produced there should be a good demand
for it both at home and abroad.
(1) Where can Q’land-nut seeds be pro-
cured? (2) How long before they are in.
profit? (3) ‘How many trees to acre? (4)
Class of soil necessary? (5) Yield per tree?
(6) Price? (7) Is there a steady market? —
5570.
(1) Try J. W. Waldron, Upper Eungella
(N.S.W.), or S. M. Greer, Upper Dungay,
via Murwillumbah (N.S.W.). (2) Approxi-
mately seven years, from seed. (3) 75 trees
to the acre. (4) Deep free fertile loam. (5)
About 501 b. (6) Local current price, lOd.
per pound. (7) For a good article, yes ; see
foregoing answer.
I am a poultry-farmer and propose to
e>Her the dressed-poultry trade in N.S.W.
(1) Do I have to comply 'with any regula-
tions? (2) Equipment necessary? (3)
Average price, dead weight, for boilei\s ,
roasters and grillers? (4) Are birds plucked
wet or dry? (5) Which gives the best-look-
ing poultry? (O) Method of killing and
dressing? (7) Temperature of water if
fowls are to be plucked wet? (8) Giblets
that are sold with the bird? (9) Is it an
advantage to starve birds 24 hours before
killing? (10) Does vinegar improve the
flavor if given before killing ?— 5267.
(1) No. (2) Apart from farm equipment
a battery for “topping off” and a room for
dressing the birds, equipped with a bench
and copper. (3) Retail: prime boilers, Is.;
roasters, Is. 3d.; grillers, Is. 6d. per lb. (4)
Methods in use are “dry,” “semi-scald” or
“sea.ld.” (5) Semi-scald method is most satis-
factory. (6) and (7) Pamphlet which con-
tains information as to method of killing
and dressing can be obtained from Agricul-
ture Department, Sydney. (8) The giblets
that can be used for consumption are gizzard,
liver, heart, neck and feet. (9) Yes. (10)
No, but milk feeding is beneficial.
I have a 54 -egg capacity hot-air incubator.
In the first hatch about 25 of the chickens
came to the stage of pipping and then died.
The air was kept moist. Cause of chickens
dying and how to avoid it? —5523.
Possibly the result of improper mating or
faulty feeding of breeding stock, narticularly
if an excess of concentrates is being fed in
the ration. Other possible causes are stale
eggs or erratic temperatures. The thermo-
meter should be tested for accuracy. Usually
incubators of small capacity are liable to
fluctuate in temperature unless operated in
a room where the temperature is fairly even.
How to make a brooder for incubator-
hatched, chicks? Are hot and cold brooders
necessary? —sss9.
You can buy a lamp-heated brooder for
75 to 100 day-old chicks as cheaply as you
could make it. Only one type of brooder is
required.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin”: Harrow the late-sown wheat
crops as soon as they cover the ground and
the soil is in workable condition. When
doing the job, follow the old rule of not
looking behind; the crop will be still there.
Harrowing serves the twofold purpose of
aerating the soil and making a mulch.
“E.S.” : Belled sheep used to be common
years ago, mostly for the guidance of shep-
herds. Small graziers in parts of the coun-
try are now belling odd members of their
flocks to scare foxes. Those who have tried
it say that the trick is an excellent protec-
tion for lambs.
“Ivaraway” : A drover usually hustles his
mob along in the early morning, allowing
them to feed later. But if the tracks are
dry and there is dew on the grass, it is wiser
to let them feed for a couple of hours from
the night camp. The wet grass helps them
over many miles.
“Julia Creek” : It lias been suggested that
the golden-brown blowfly will strike any
sheep, whereas the blue-green one will only
strike one already blown or wounded sheep.
I am rather inclined to believe it; last April
in our part of Queensland there were over-
cast skies, green grass, ewes lambing and
thousands of blue-green flies, and no sheep
struck. This may be of use to the scientists
who are considering the fly.
“Bad Australian”: “Wandi” (B. 2/9/’3l)
is right; goanna oil should not be used on
harness. I tried it once; in less than a
week it “hummed” like a herd of infuriated
skunks in a boiling-down establishment, and
when I offered that saddle as a free gift the
only bidder was one of the abo. rouseabouts.
All animal oils should be well boiled and
filtered through calcined bone _ before being
applied to leather goods, otherwise the article
treated will develop a smell. A few hours
after oiling a saddle it should be brushed over
with the white of an egg, which, when dry,
will prevent oil and saddle stain soiling the
rider’s pants.
“E.S.S.” : I have got rid of white ants, even
when they had become well established in a
building, by making a break in their connect-
ing passages and inserting a small quantity
of paste made of arsenic and sugar. Merely
breaking the connections will sometimes shift
them if they are discovered before they have
made much headway. It is no use trying to
attack them in the building; get at them and
cut them off at their base. If you can lead
black ants on to them with a trail of sugar
or water treacle, the blacks will do the
exterminating.
“J. Point” : Continuous cleanliness is the
only way of keeping lice, red mite and other
poultry parasites in check. Spray all houses
(and the cracks and crevices) with a good
mixture of kerosene emulsion, creosote or
phenyl. Provide a good dust-bath, adding
a little powdered sulphur and wood ashes.
Clean up droppings every little while, bury-
ing them a few inches deep ; then flies can’t
get at them.
“Dimon” : Bolts are things that soon rust
when put by, and the nuts are usually hard
to get off when they are wanted. Dip them
in hot fat or melted beeswax before storing,
and there’ll be no trouble.
“W.R.”: For a home-made hayrake get a
2ft. length of 2in. by 2in. timber and with a
fin-bit bore it at 2in. intervals. Out of
straight-grained hardwood split three inch
pegs. Round their ends, and drive them through
a fin. bolt held iii the vyce. Fasten the pegs
in the bored holes with little wedges driven
into sawcuts in their bases. With an inch
centre-hit or auger bore the headpiece middle
for the handle. For this use a slender 6ft.
sapling. Brace it with wire tied from the
headpiece ends through a hole 2ft. up the
handle, and tightly strained.
Illustrative of the importance which the
practice of pasture renovation has assumed
among livestock farmers is the announce-
ment that the International Harvester Co.
of Australia is putting a new line of Aus-
tralian-made pasture harrows on the market.
This pasture harrow is a sturdily-built,
efficient-looking implement. It is made in
various sizes.
It is a sign of the times that very pro-
minent among the McKay Sunshine exhibits
at the Adelaide Show was gear for cultivating
grasses. Many of these introduced sorts —pas-
palum, for example—grow coarse and become
a nuisance if not well handled; Sunshine has
been giving a good deal of attention this year
to tools for the purpose. Incidentally, there
are still 700 on the job at Sunshine, though
not all working full time.
. “L. Lizard”: As a smith with 45 years’
experience, let me contradict the man who
says (B. 2/9/’3l) that welding is easy. It
requires practical demonstration by a teacher
and also a lot of practice before a student
can weld ordinary soft iron, and there s very
little of that rolled these many years. Some
of the mild steel used now has to be carefully
treated when welding, and the thing can’t
possibly be learnt by theory or correspon-
dence. The preparation for welding is im-
portant. The ends of the metal to be united
must be “jumped up” or thickened, so as
to allow for wastage during the welding
process ; then each end is scarfed 9r tapered
in a particular way. As for welding spring
and cast steel, only good smiths are capable
of making a good job at this class of metals.
I refer, of course, to ordinary forge-welding;
electric welding can be learned m a few
months by any intelligent laborer.
“Cayenne”: In a recent report to the
C.S.I.R. the plant pathologist, W. M. Carne,
says that since 1925 fluctuating production
lias upset apple marketing in Australia, lie
suggests having half of the trees of each
variety in each State in heavy bearing in
alternate years. This would produce average
crops, the apples from the light-crop trees
being marketed locally (owing to lesser keep-
ing qualities), with the heavy-crop trees
providing the hulk of the export and storage
quotas (keeping quality, color and flavor
generally improve with the size of the crop).
A start this year is recommended on a 10
per cent, quota of trees in N.S.W., Vic. and
S.A. If successful, more rapid progress would
be made in subsequent years.
“Dee” • Herefords are hardy. Ask George
Fitzgerald, of Glen Wills (Vic.). For six
weeks a mob of his bullocks was snowed-m
5000 ft. up on the Bogong high plains. When
a trench was dug through the snow they were
still strong enough to walk through it to life
and freedom after their long imprisonment.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach fhe coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Housekeeper-cook, child of school age, wants posi-
tion N.S.W. or Q’land. —5723.
Sydney typist wants work at home. MS. called
for and delivered. —5718.
Certificated nurse, N.S.W., bush exp., wants posi-
tion. Refs.—-5698.
Married man (30), N.S.W., one child, 10 years'
exp. sheep and cattle stations as manager and over-
seer, wants position. Refs.- —5674.
Young man wants work of any sort. Refs. —-5688.
Young man (24), N.S.W., wants job as gardener
on station, exp. fruit, flowers and vegetables.—ss79.
Young man, Roseville, Sydney, wants to join
athletic club handy to suburb.—s 643.
Young lady travelling to Singapore will take charge
of children for part fare.-r-5687.
Young man (29), well educated, executive exp.,
wants position Sydney or Brisbane. Refs.—s76s.
Young man, baking and book-keeping exp., wants
work, Q’land or N.S.W. preferred. Refs. —5767.
Youth (18), N.S.W., well educated, wants employ-
ment offering advancement.—s7Bo.
Exp. farmer holding tobacco land, Mareeba (Q.),
wants reliable working partner with £5OO. —5785.
Drought-stricken mallee farmer’s wife, with sense
of humor, wants chance to earn 30s. weekly writing
sketches, etc. Typed MSS. —5734.
N. Q’land prospector with good claim wants partner
with little capital.—s7ss.
Young married couple, N.S.W., husband book-
keeper and music-teacher, wife ex-schoolteacher, want
position on Q’land sheep station. —5775.
Domesticated girl, wanted for N.S.W. sheep station.
Housework and help with children. —5673.
Melbourne solicitor will transact agency business
for Sydney firms;—s6s3.
Maorilander wants to buy banana or mixed farm
on Q’land coast. About £4OO deposit.—s64s.
To buy Gleig’s “Elementary Mensuration.” —-5662.
Words of poem “Skeeta.” —5670.
To buy “The Jinker,” by Con Drew. —5725.
To buy Jack London’s “Voyage of the Snark. ’
—5726.
To buy early works on Australia and aborigines.
—5770.
To buy, second-hand, “Design,” by Dawson. —5782.
Words of poem published during visit of American
fleet containing the phrase “the all-white man to the
whitey-grey.”—s7o2.
To hear from secretary of any archery club in
N.5.W.—5761.
Information Sought.
What is the longest authenticated flight
of a bird on record? —5605.
That of an arctic tern, banded at Turne-
vik Bay, Labrador, on July 3, 1928; it was
found dead on the beach at Margate, 15 miles
s.-w of Port) Shepstone, Natal, on November
14 of the same year.
If a wife is left out of her husband's
will, and she has means which make
her well provided for, can the will be upset?
Would the ruling hold good for the Common-
wealth?—ss3B.
In the circumstances the will could not
be upset anywhere in Australia.
(1) Who were the Pointillists? (2) What
did they do in painting? —s6s4.
(1) A group of impressionistic painters
who flourished at the end of the last cen-
tury. (2) They obtained their effects by
tiny spots (points) with the in-between-
spaces (the intervals) so distinct that the
priming on the canvas showed. In some
styles the spots were perfectly round, and
the effect was that of a canvas covered in
confetti. Some of the paintings were made
with spots with soft edges, or melting one
into the other, which was supposed to give
a peculiar brilliance.
(1) Why is a special day set aside for
varnishing at all large exhibitions? (2)
When and ichy are pictures varnished? (3)
What is the best varnish to use, and how
in it applied? —s64B.
(1) A special varnishing day is not uni-
versally allowed. The Royal Academy still
has one, but the N.S.W. society has dis-
continued the practice. It was instituted
in order that the artists might touch up
their efforts a little if necessary after they
were hung. (2) Paintings should not be
varnished until one year after they are made.
It is done to protect the colors, and it also
freshens and brightens them. (3) Copal
varnish followed by a coat of mastic. There
must be no dust or moisture in the room.
The picture should be warmed both front and
back by dry heat, after which copal varnish,
slightly warm, is applied with a warmed
brush. The picture is kept in the same room
until dry, and after a. week another coat,
this time of mastic varnish, is applied.
Which will, give the best results with
dahlias — seed, cuttings or tubers? When
is the proper time for each work?- —5597
Seed may give a new color, due to pollin-
isation by bees; cuttings produce flowers
true to type; tubers are the easiest to handle.
Plant seed early in September. Cuttings can
be set out as soon as the plants are large
enough to take the cuttings of the soft wood.
Tubers should be put in between October
and December. Use only those tubers which
have shoots on the neck of the bulb.
(1) What books comprise Galsworthy’s
“Forsyte Fag a”? Is it note complete, and
can it be obtained in one volume? (2) 117/ o
arc conspicuous short-story writers contri-
buting to current English and American
ma gasines ? —5422.
(1) Novels: “The Man of Property,”
“Indian Summer of a Forsyte.” “In Chan-
cery,” “Awakening” and “To Let,” now pub-
lished in one vol., “The Forsyte Saga,”
12s. 6d.; the story of the Forsytes is con-
tinued in the novels “The White Monkey;”
“A Silent Wooing,” “The Silver Spoon,”
“Passers-by” and “Swan Song,” published
in one vol., “The Modern Comedy,” 14s. 6d.
Between these, chronologically, comes a
volume of short tales; “On Forsyte Change,”
7s. 6d. (2) J. D. Beresford, Weston Martyr,
11. A. Vachell, Warwick Deeping, Sinclair
Lewis, Willa Cather, Christopher iviorley,
Denis Mackail, Martin Armstrong, “Sapper,”
Sehvyn Jepson, Fanny Hurst, Joseph Herges-
heimer and H. L. Mencken.
My roses have made abnormal new growth.
How can I get rid of some of them in order
to help the bushes to groic symmetrically
without injuring the flowers? —5595.
Rub off all shoots which have a cross-
growing tendency and are likely to spoil the
shape of the bush. Also cut off shoots which
have a tendency to grow down. Give a sprink-
ling of blood and bone and work it into the
soil.
(1) To what extent, under Mussolini, do
the Italians have a say in the government of
their country? (2) What is Mussolini’s
attitude toward labor questions? (3) How
many Fascists in Italy? (4) Much Unem-
ployment there.? —ss76.
(1) Those who enjoy the franchise, which
is not universal but fairly wide, can vote
for or reject in toto a list of 400 deputies
finally approved by the Fascist Grand Coun-
cil, and selected partly, in the first instance,
by Fascist syndicates and trade unions. (2)
Mussolini aims to make the State fhe guar-
dian of both capital and labor, establishing
equalities of rights and duties between them,
and maintaining peace between them “at any
cost.” Strikes are forbidden ; labor courts
settle all disputes. There is no State fixing
of hours or wages, the Fascist “Charter of
Labor” specifically declaring against the prin-
ciple of the minimum wage. (3) 6,814,703
in October, 1928. latest counting of which
details are available. (4) Not a great deal,
the number idle varying from 80,000 to
600,000.
My pure-bred cocker-spaniel bitch has
whelped five puppies by a father unknown
but not of the breed. I have been told
that this will spoil her for future breeding
ivith a pure-bred sire on account of “absorp-
tion.” Is this so? —5446.
No. If you put your bitch to a pure-bred
dog you will get pure-bred pups.
Can the “A” battery of a wireless &<et
cause noises, and if so how can it be pre-
vented? —5737.
Yes; the formation of bubbles on the plates
may cause variations of resistance. Another
source of noise is corrosion. The best way
of preventing this is to stipulate that the
battery must be cleaned and vaseline applied
to terminals and connections on each visit
to the charging station.
(1) Can shorthand be learned from a
book? (2) Best system? (3) Where could
I obtain books? (4) How long would it
take to develop average speed? —sss7.
(1) Yes, but better to take an oral or
correspondence course at Sydney Tech. (2)
Pitman’s. (3) Any Sydney bookseller. (4)
Depends on student and time available for
study. It should be possible to attain 100
words a minute in 12 months.
The odds against getting a royal flush
pat at poker are given by Hoyle as 649,700
to 1 against. How are the odds arrived at?
—5738.
It should be 649,740 to 1. It is computed
thus; The odds against drawing ace, court-
card or ten of any suit as first card are 52
to 20 (2 3-5 to 1) against—s 2 cards and
only 20 honors. The odds against drawing
another honor of the same suit as the second
card are 51 to 4 (12f to 1) against; for the
third card, 50 to 3 (16f to 1) ; for the fourth,
49 to 2 (241 to 1) ; for the fifth. 48 to 1.
To compute the chances of all five things
happening consecutively the odds are multi-
plied together.
(1) A few details of the uprising in China
in 1927? (2) What Government is in power
to-day? (3) What is its attitude towards
foreign residents, particularly British and
Russian ? —5561.
(1) Led by Marshal Chiang Kai-shek, the
Kuo Ming Tang, or Nationalist party, cap-
tured Hankow, Nanking and Shanghai, where
they came in contact with British troops,
though without bloodshed occurring. At
Tsinanfu they were checked by a Japanese
army. Peking was, however, handed over to
them and a unified Government established at
Nanking. The Russian advisers were got rid
of when an attempt was made to make
Hankow a centre of Bolshevik influence. (2)
A military dictatorship headed by Chiang
Kai-shek and the Kuo Ming Tang leaders.
(3) Peace and goodwill, based on mutual non-
interference. The Chinese desire the abolition
of rights of extra-territoriality. Foreigners
assert that the Chinese legal system, though
superficially equal to those of EuroDe and
in some respects better, is subject to bribery
and military pressure. The British are
negotiating for revision of unequal treaties.
Since the Revolution the Russians have been
subject to Chinese laws. Relations with the
Soviet are amicable except in Mongolia,
which has become Sovietised.
I propose making a grass tennis-court in
the western district of Vic. The climate is
temperate, the soil loam, the rainfall fair.
What sort of grass is most suitable? —s644.
Plant couch-grass roots from titn. to 12m".
apart. The closer they are planted the
quicker the court will bq covered. Sow some
couch seed at the same time. After the
roots are put in, and the seed sown, the land
should be carefully levelled and rolled and
also watered with a fine spray, taking care
the water does not get into channels and
run. In winter this grass will probably go
brown, and to keep the court green a iittie
Chewing’s fescue should be surface-sown
every March.
Is it true that 1914 pennies are valued at
over 8.V., as (/old was put in them by mistake?
—5716.
No. The rumor obtained a wide circula-
tion until it was scotched by the authorities.
I am thinking of buying a small cash-ana-
carry grocery business. (1) To secure a
net average income of £6 per week: (a) What
capital would be required to startf (b) What
amount of stock would be carried? (c)
Smallest percentage of gross profit to work
on? (d) Average weekly turnover? (e)
Overhead charges? (2) Any remarks? —
5607.
(1) Conditions vary. In the capital cities
the gross profit on groceries may be as low
as per cent. In the suburbs a grocer
might get 15 per cent, gross, calculated on
the selling price. Much, of course, depends
upon capacity in so keenly contested a busi-
ness. (a) £4OO. (6) £4OO. (c) 15 per cent, on
turnover, (d) £l5O. (c) Not safe to reckon
under 10 per cent.; probably more. (2) The
average suburban grocer is fortunate if he
makes 2£ per cent, after providing, say, £5
per week for himself for wages. An essential
of success is to have sufficient capital to pay
cash for produce lines which bulk so largely
in the business (butter, bacon, eggs, sugar,
etc.), and to pay monthly and so secure his
24 per cent, discount on the balance of stock.
Particulars of stamps issued in Papua
during the last few months? —5724.
The current shilling value was surcharged
fivepence and a new fivepenny value was
issued. The 4d., Id., 2d., 3d., 4d., 6d., Is.
and 2s. 6d. stamps have been over-printed
“0.5.” for official use.
Reliable one-solution developer for films
and prints? —s7o4.
For films: 1 dram metol, .1 dram hydro-
quinol, loz. sod. sulphite, loz. sod. carbonate
and lOoz. water. For, prints: dilute with
equal quantity of water and add a few drops
of pot. brom.
What is the nature of the N.S.W. Ineb-
riates Act? —5736,
The Act was designed to provide treat-
ment for inebriates who have been convicted,
and for those who have not. For the care
and treatment of the latter class, it
authorises the establishment of State insti-
tutions under the control of the Inspector-
General of the Insane. Judges, police magis-
trates and the Master-in-Lunacy may order
that an inebriate be bound over to abstain,
or that he be placed in a State or licensed
institution, or under the care of an attendant
controlled by the Master-in-Lunacy, or of a
guardian, for a period not exceeding 12
months. Provision is made also to enable
an inebriate to enter voluntarily into recog-
nisances to abstain. An inebriate convicted
of an offence of which drunkenness is a
factor, or, in certain cases, a contributing
cause, may be required to enter into recog-
nisances for a period of not less than 12
months, during which he must report periodi-
cally to the police; or he may be placed in
a State institution under the direction of the
Comptroller-General, of Prisons.
How to repair a broken oil-stone? —s6B4.
Take two parts litharge and one part white
lead. Work into a pasty condition by using-
three parts boiled linseed oil and one part
copal varnish. Paint thickly on to the
broken edges, press together and allow to
dry for several days.
Haw to make axle-grease, using crankcase
oil from a motor-car and tallow? —5635.
Take 80 parts clarified tallow free from
salt, and 20 parts fine graphite. Melt together
over low heat, and stir constantly until cold
to keep the graphite in suspension. Nothing
much is gained by adding crankcase oil, but
you can stir in about lib. oil to every 51b. of
above mixture, and stiffen it with a little
powdered resin well stirred in while the
mixture is hot.
How to soften a kangaroo-skin which has
been tanned with wattle-bark? —5611.
Tack the skin out on a board, fur side
down, and paint it lightly with neatsfoot oil
of good quality. Leave for an hour or two,
then begin working more of the oil into the
skin, using a blunt chisel-shaped stick. Rub
for an hour or more with plenty of oil, and
leave for several days to dry; then finish up
with pumice rubbing. Repeat the process if
the skin is still hard.
(1) How long has surveying by air-photo-
graphy been carried out? (2) Was it used
extensively in the war? (3) Has tius form
of surveying reached perfection? —s73l.
(1) Dates back to 1859, when experiments
in photographing the ground from balloons
were made by Col. Loussedat, Major Elsdale
and others, but air-photographs played no
part in any important survey before 1914.
(2) Yes, due to the inaccessibility of the most
important areas. (3) No. For peace pur-
poses the process is still in the experimental
stage.
(1) What is pectin? (2) What fruits
contain the greatest quantity? (3) How is
it extracted commercially? (4) Could a
small quantity be recovered by an amateur
with ordinary household equipment? (5)
Is pectin on sale? (6) Where can it be
o btained ? —5568.
(1) A gelatinous carbohydrate, closely
allied to the vegetable gums. Considered to
be without food value, but forms a vehicle
for food material in the vegetable world.
(2) Mainly in acid fruits such as goose-
berries, currants and apples, the greatest
quantity being obtainable just before the
fruit is quite ripe; it is found also in com-
paratively non-acid fruits, such as melons.
(3) and (4) A full description of the pro-
cess was published in the “Australian
Woman’s Mirror” (12/5/’3l). (5) An
American product appears on the market
occasionally in Australia. (6) Grace Bros.,
George-street West, Sydney.
What are saw sharks? —s72B.
They are small sharks of the family Pris-
tiophoridae, with the snout resembling a long
flat blade armed on each side with a row of
sharp enamelled teeth. They are plentiful in
Australian waters, large numbers being caught
by trawlers.
Is there a reliable method of securing
double-stock seed from your own plants?
—5786.
Double stocks don’t carry seed. Pull up
single plants which are not required, and
thus allow the bees to pollinise the seed on
them. The big full seedpods at the top of
the plants are generally the best. Allow
the seed to dry thoroughly before sowing it.
If the double-stock flowers are of exceptional
quality cut the plants down, and they will
bloom just as finely next year.
Brief Answers.
K. 0.: “Binalong,” towards the high place;
“kobada,” place on a hill; “illa-langi,” camp
on a hill V.11.L.: Toilet Table Articles, Ltd.,
Jersey-road, Woollahra, Sydney J.H.; As none of
the towns mentioned is within a transport district,
the nse of the vehicle in the manner suggested would
not bring it within the scope of the N.S.W. Transport
Act 1930... .E.M.S.: “Manngar,” “marunga,” “mar-
inga,” “margi,” “mari” or “wulla-mulla,” each means
medicine-man ; “bungendore,” a big hill on a plain ;
“kobada,” place of a hill; “nioka,” a green hill;
“thirroul,” a valley or h0110w... .E.H.M.: “Condong,”
blue fig, and name of a hill; “eudgen,” red clay, or
red mud with which abos. paint themselves; “uki,”
small lagoon. .. .J.W.S.: Rule 40 of the laws of
ecarte provides that if a card be led out of turn, i,t
may be taken up again, prior to its being played
to; after it has been played to, the error cannot
be rectified.... D.F.J.: “The Temptress” was a
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer picture starring Greta Garbo.
The leading men were Antonio Moreno and Roy
D’Arcy and the duel they fought was with Argentine
bull whips. The duel has no special name. . . .W. 8.:
“Chicha” is a Chilean beverage made of pineapple
rinds and sugar or molasses. Formula not known here.
.... W.F.: Pumpkins are generally sold by the
hundredweight or ton, occasionally by the dozen. French
beans are sold by the bushel —201 b. to the bushel,
but in marketing it is usual to allow an extra. 21b.
to the bushel for loss in weight. Carrots and
turnips, as bunch vegetables, are usually sold three
or four to the bunch; bundles of shallots contain 15
to 20, according to the size of the stalks... .R.G.:
Practically all the principal countries are signatories
to the International Patents Convention... .C. 8.:
The coin is a Maundy twopence of Queen Victoria,
and if in Mint condition is worth sixpence....
S.K.: If employee does not get allowances ( e.g.,
board), bringing her weekly earnings to £2 or over,
unemployment relief tax should not be deducted.
... .J.R.M.: If he has gone through life with a low
blood pressure without much trouble or dieting, he
probably can safely be left to continue in the way
he has gone. There is no danger of a stroke....
A.A.: “Cattle Camp” has not yet been published in
book form... .F.M.A.; We cannot recommend any
particular specialist... .M.H.: None in practice,
though autopsy really means “a personal examination
of” L.K.J.: Essential treatment is frequent wash-
ing of the scalp with spirit soap, and it is important
that the soap be washed out with two or three supplies
of fresh water... .C.W.: On general principles the
smaller the hole used for the spike the better would
be the results obtained, provided it did not split
the timber. .. .E.S.D.: Rates take priority of mort-
gage charges. In N. S. Wales land may be sold to
pay rates seven years overdue.... L.0.W.: (1) Apply
to the Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court, Sydney.
(2) Write to the Assistant Paymaster-General,
Whitehall, S.W.I, London. .. .G.G.: When living
together, husband is liable for necessaries, such as
food and clothing, having regard to her circum-
stances. If he supplies these himself and warns
tradespeople not to supply to his wife he is not
liable. It has been held that where a husband
allowed his wife a fixed sufficient sum and speci-
fically warned her that she must not further
pledge his credit, not even notice to the trades-
people was necessary, but, generally speaking,
a notice in a newspaper is desirable... .E.G.H.: (1)
“Balance-sheets and How to Read Them,” by Tovey.
(2) “Principle and Practice of Commercial Corres-
pondence,” by Pitman.... T.M.: It is necessary to
obtain a license from the Dept, of Agriculture,
Sydney, to keep Angora rabbits. Before a license
is granted an enclosure must be constructed in accord-
ance with specifications laid down by the Depart-
ment, a license fee must be paid, and the applicant
must join the Rabbit Fur Farmers’ Association....
P.C.W.: Make a written request to your neighbor for
his share of the cost of rebuilding fence, and if he does
not pay within 14 days you may summon him. If the
neighbor chooses to erect his own fence that does
not release him from your claim A. 8.: If you
are unable to meet instalments as they fall due, you
can apply to the local Court of Petty Sessions to
defer payment or adjust instalments. .. .C.A.J.:
Plagues of mice and rats have happened in Australia,
as elsewhere. In the summer of 1917 serious losses of
wheat occurred in S.A., N.S.W. and Vic. as a result
of a plague of mice J.G.M.: Under the Vic. Un-
employment Relief Act a resident of Vic. is liable
to tax on divs. from any co., whether registered in
Vic. or not. Income from sources outside Vic.
other than divs. are not liable to Victorian taxes.
... . J.L.: Write Local Government Dept., Sydney,
for extract from Local Government Act relating to
the disqualification of aldermen.... B.B.: From the
Director, Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney.
H.W.K., S.G.L. and N.D.: “Oxford Book of
German Verse,” 14s. 6d. ; “Character by Hand-
writing,” 6s. 6d.; “Prospecting for Gold,” by lon
L. Idriess, Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .G.P.S.:
Write Commissioner of Police, Capetown. .. .J.R.R.:
Get in touch with the Prisons Dept, in Sydney and
Melbourne... .J. 8.: Write to the Town Clerk, Too-
woomba, Q’land. .. .B.: (1) Bega, 1933 ; Bombala,
978; Queanbeyan, 4030. (2) His religion is his
own affair J.H.: (1) You run the risk of
an action for infringement of copyright. In
the case mentionad it is not likely the
paper would take action, but you should acknow-
ledge previous publication. (2) Yes, if given to a
first-class process engraver... .R.H.C.: “A fictitious
prose narrative assuming to portray real life and
actual emotions in the characters depicted” is how
Funk and Wagnall’s Dictionary describes a novel.
. ...F.M.: A label dated 1721 does not prove that
a violin is old. Submit it for inspection to A. E.
Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney; or Sleaths, George-
street, Brisbane. .. .5.8.: Only war in progress at
that date was Sir Charles Napier’s campaign against
Scinde. We can trace no record of a naval engage-
ment. . ..M.S.S.: A letter addressed c/o the Air
Ministry, London, may find him M.J.O’Ri: Too
large an order. An accurate answer would involve
a study of the whole field of religion and mythology.
. ...p!w. : The comedy “The Young Person in Pink”
was written by Gertrude E. Jennings 11. Y, J.;
Every case of omitted income is dealt with on its
merits. A voluntary disclosure would receive move
lenient consideration than a case in which the
omission is discovered by the Department. .. . M.A.S.:
The book has no value N..T.: “The Dahlia in Aus-
tralia,” by E. E. Pestcott (Is. 9d. posted), “Aus-
tralian Catechism of Carnation Culture,” by E. Den-
ham (2s. 10d.), Dymocks, Sydney N. 8.: Stott’s
Technical Correspondence College, 70 Pitt-street;
1.C.5., 140 Elizabetli-street—both Sydney... . B.J.S. :
Too long to print here. See Monro’s “Guide for the
Chairman and Secretary”... .J.D.G.: It is a spider
of the species Celmiia excavata and is of normal
appearance. .. .M.8.C.; Can’t give an opinion without
seeing it D. J.K.: It has no standard value.
Don’t think you could sell it locally E.W.: Can’t
say. Apply to Old Age and Invalids Pensions Office.
Sydney.... J.D.: The piece is a silver medal issued
for W.A. in commemoration of the Diamond Jubilee
of Queen Victoria, the swan on the reverse being the
State’s armorial insignia. Probably struck by
Heaton and Son. Birmingham. Value, Is 1.. M.:
Get in touch with the Principal, Q’land School for
the Deaf, Cornwal 1-street, South Brisbane (Many
others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G. M. Turnbull
CHAPTER I.
SLIM, eager, vital, she was extremely
pleasing to the eye, Huntley conceded.
Her nose was, perhaps, a little inad-
equate, her mouth much too red, her
powder-puff too obtrusive; her trim skirts
too short, too. Huntley smiled wistfully, a
little bitterly. She was Miss 1929, he told
himself, a type with which he was wholly
unfamiliar, which left him entirely un-
moved. He withdrew his eyes from the
group of passengers gathered round the
gramophone, settled himself in his steamer
chair, and, closing his book over an in-
serted finger, gazed out over the shimmer-
ing translucence of the Coral Sea.
Far to starboard a claw-sailed lakatoi
made a blur of cinnamon in a vast empti-
ness of blue; to port, a white line of surf
foamed on the Barrier Reef. Behind the
reef stretched the low, verdant coast, with
its ridges of jungle-clad foothills one behind
the other, wrapped in soft folds of fleecy
mist. Behind these again, immeasurably
remote, the dog-toothed ramparts of the
mighty Owen Stanley Range showed only
as vague, blue shadows that quivered in the
heat haze.
Jim Huntley, Resident Magistrate of the
Aikoroa Division, was not very old nor yet
very young. His eyes were steady but
tired-looking; there were scores of fine lines
etched about them, and, from the corners
of his very firm mouth, two deep grooves
cut into his cheeks. His white drill suit
hung loosely upon him as though it had
been made for a stouter man; under his
tan lay a suggestion of pallor, and his
movements were listless, his air abstracted.
Huntley had been but lately discharged
from hospital, where for weeks he had lain
in desperate plight. Two months ago the
“exigencies of the service,” represented by
a tribe of bloodthirsty, man-hungry moun-
tain men, had imposed upon him a crucify-
ing inland patrol in the height of the rainy
season. It had been a job that demanded
the best of his brain and body, this grim
man-hunt in the heart of primitive Papua,
and he had accomplished what he had set
out to do without a casualty, according to
plan and the best traditions of the Papuan
Armed Constabulary. But the unremitting
strain had worn him down, told upon his
health. One morning, soon after his return
to the coast, his cook-boy had discovered
him sitting upon the edge of his camp
stretcher babbling foolish words, singing
foolish songs. And because crazy men are,
in a way, sacred to native Papuans, the lad
had called in the police that they might
look on and marvel also. The sergeant had
acted with promptitude. Huntley knew
nothing more until he found himself in the
sternsheets of the whaleboat headed for
Port Moresby. For him there ensued eter-
nities of blackness, of torpor, of pain-filled
wakefulness. When full consciousness came
to him he was in a white-painted hospital
ward that reeked of antiseptics.
The doctors told him that the Goddess
of Luck had smiled upon him; that he had
drifted to the very ante-room of death;
that but for Sergeant Gibara’s faculty of
quick thinking and prompt decision, the
door of Eternity would have long since
swung wide open to receive him.
Blackwater fever is like that.
Now he was aboard the mail steamer
bound for Baramata, where he would tran-
ship to the shabby little rusty-sided coaster
that would take him back to Aikoroa and
the old familiar grind. He wished glumly
that it were otherwise; that he were going
south on extended leave. And he wished,
with a sick man’s impatience, that the noisy
tourists would speedily betake themselves
to another corner of the deck.
The gramophone was scratching out syn-
copated dissonance; feet were shuffling,
young men and maidens laughed. Huntley
closed his book definitely and meditated
retreat to the smokeroom. Suddenly a deck-
quoit whirled past his ear; another hit the
arm of his chair and ricochetted across the
deck.
“Sorry!”
It was a girl’s voice—soft, friendly—with
a suggestion of laughter in it, not at all the
voice Huntley expected from lips so shame-
lessly carmined. He turned his head.
“I believe you did that on purpose,” he
remonstrated, marvelling at his own temer-
ity. . .
The girl crinkled her deliciously saucy
nose at him. Huntley felt rather than saw
a pair of deep and most disconcerting eyes
looking him up and down. He stiffened in-
stinctively, and a dull stain of embarrass-
ment mounted under his tan.
“If you’ll glance behind you,” the girl
said very distantly, “you’ll see three circles
chalked upon the deck.”
Huntley’s face was crimson. A futile
anger stirred within him. After all, the
skipper had mumbled an introduction, of
sorts, over the breakfast table. This pert
young minx in the knee-length skirts and
the ridiculously high-heeled shoes had no
call to snub him so unmercifully.
“I beg your pardon,” he returned stiffly.
“If you’ll permit me, I’ll move my chair.”
“Please don’t go.” Her eyes challenged
him, mocked him, but her mouth was irre-
sistibly quirked at the comers. “We’re not
playing quoits, really. We’re getting up a
dance.” She powdered her nose casually.
“Won’t you join the Gay Gang?”
Her quick, frank smile threw him off his
balance. Huntley was no lady’s man. He
choked in inarticulate abashment while his
mouth began to widen in a fatuous grin.
Then an athletic youth with a haughty air,
whose striped blazer shrieked to high
heaven, gave a little titter. Instantly
Huntley froze. She was making him con-
spicuous, raising a cheap laugh at his ex-
pense, baiting him. He was thoroughly out
of joint with the world.
“Thank you, no,” he answered gruffly. “I
do not feel up to the—er—Gay Gang, Miss
—er —er —l’m afraid I didn’t catch your
name.”
The haughty youth snorted. Huntley
blasted him with a glance and ostentatiously
opened his book. The girl made up her
lips—Huntley was quite sure they didn’t
need it—while she considered him as if he
were something infinitely small and mean.
Huntley squirmed. The girl tipped back
her head and laughed.
“Well,” she breathed witheringly at last,
“if you’re not an extremely agreeable and
engaging young man, it’s a pity!”
She turned to her cavalier. “Come along,
Freddie. The man’s quite cross.” And
yielding herself to Freddie’s sophisticated
clasp, she swayed round the comer of the
deckhouse and out of Huntley’s line of
vision.
“The minx!” Huntley fumed. His back
proclaimed an uncompromising indifference.
He rested his book upon his knee and tried
to read with care and concentration. But
the ineffable blue of the sea and the speck-
less sky, the jangling ebullitions of the
gramophone, the soft rustling of feet to the
capricious rhythm of the latest dance hit,
and an intruding vision of , a pair of level,
candid' eyes full of mocking laughter had
made of anthropology the driest of barren
sciences and its study infinitely stale and
profitless. His book dropped to the deck.
What an exhibition he had made of him-
self! How disgustingly uncouth! The girl
had noticed that he was stranded, helpless
in this crowd of carefree holiday-makers,
and in friendly fashion had tried to put him
at his ease. And he had rebuffed her with
an ill-mannered snarl. He had lost the
knack, he told himself, of meeting people
in the candid, free and easy way of the
white man’s world. That was but part of
the price New Guinea demands from those
who serve her; but it merely explained, it
did not excuse his gruffness, his boorish-
ness. He felt himself growing hot all over.
“A hatter, that’s what I’m becoming,” he
told himself. “A wild man from the woods,
unfitted for the society of civilised folk.”
There came a squeal of delight as the
gramophone ground out its last note.
Huntley watched a flying-fish as it leapt
from under the bows. His shoulders were
shaking in a soundless laugh. What a God-
forsaken ass he was! Still, it was good to
feel that he was truly convalescent; good
to be able to laugh—at himself.
The ship’s bell tolled six mellow notes.
Huntley elbowed himself out of his chair
and crossed to his stateroom. It was time
to swallow another dose of the beastly mix-
ture the doctor had made up for him. He
, was rinsing out the glass, grimacing at him-
self in the mirror, when he heard the quick
tap-tap of high heels upon the deck. The
footsteps ceased outside his door. Stealthily
Huntley moved to the open port and drew
the curtain aside. He saw a small hand
reaching for the tag that was attached to
his deck-chair. He gave a discreet cough.
“The name is Huntley,” he remarked
blandly. “J. Huntley. The J. stands for
James, but my friends always call me”—-
The girl wheeled —flushed, startled, over-
whelmed with embarrassment.
“Oh!” she gasped. Her red mouth quiv-
ered. “You’re the—the meanest”
“Jim, I was going to say.” Huntley went
on imperturbably. Here, he felt, was a
chance to win back lost ground, a Heaven-
sent opportunity to make himself right with
her. He was determined to make the most
of it. His mouth was twitching, but his
face was grave. “Perhaps, if I admit you
to my friendship, I may permit you also
to call me Jim.”
The girl choked in utter confusion. A
sweep of color stained her face and her fin-
gers tugged frantically at the heavy amber
beads that hung down to her waist.
“Tinker—tailor—soldier —sailor,” Huntley
solemnly chanted. A most agreeable sen-
sation was warming him. “Rich man —
wrong! Quite wrong. I’m a kind of police-
man.” He smiled encouragement. He had
a very pleasant smile. The girl’s white,
even teeth were down on her lower lip. Her
face expressed disdain—and some amuse-
ment.
A young man of lithe and powerful build
wearing a flamboyant blazer hove into view.
Huntley sighed. “Here’s Freddie,” he ex-
claimed in a pained voice. “If you knew
how I detest that lad, you’d be amazed,
Miss—er—er”
“Miss—er—er —I’m afraid I didn’t catch
your name,” she retorted with malicious
emphasis. A little laugh broke on her lips,
and a gleam unexpectedly frank and friendly
came into her eyes. Composedly she seated
herself in Huntley’s chair. Demurely she
patted her skirt. Daintily she powdered
her nose. Huntley took up a position im-
mediately in front of her with his back to
the rail. He seemed very much at ease.
Freddie’s air of determination, of purpose,
slowly ebbed away as he drew nearer. His
feet seemed to drag with every step he
took; he began to look uncomfortable, con-
fused. Huntley braced his back firmly
against the rail and regarded him with com-
plete unconsciousness. The girl was wholly
occupied with her powder-puff and a tiny
mirror. She did not even turn her head.
Freddie paused uncertainly, fumbled fever-
ishly with his collar as though it were chok-
ing him, glowered at Huntley’s bland face
and continued on his way.
“For a bushman—and a sick bushman at
that—l fancy I handled your boy friend
rather well.” Huntley preened himself.
“For a bushman —sick or hale—l think
you’re doing very well indeed,” the girl
agreed demurely.
There was a short interval of silence. The
girl drew up her knees and clasped her
hands about them. Her face was suddenly
serious, and with an odd sort of thrill
Huntley was aware that she was subjecting
him to a keen and searching scrutiny. Her
brows were wrinkled in a perplexed frown,
her lips were pursed, but tnere was nothing
of the coquette in the level candor of her
eyes.
“Huntley,” she murmured. “Jim Hunt-
ley.”
“Crude!” Huntley jeered. “Pretty crude!
You’ve never heard of me, my dear. Don’t
—please don’t—let us invent family friends
and distant connections in the dear old home
town.”
But the girl was not listening to him.
She opened her lips, closed them, and, with
a little gesture of bewilderment, turned
away her head.
“Huntley!” she repeated. “Surely, some-
where, some time, I—l”—
“In the personal column of the ‘Papuan
Planter,’ perhaps,” Huntley helpfully sug-
gested. “You know the sort of thing: ‘The
many friends of Mr. Jim Huntley, R.M.,
will be relieved to learn that he has now
been discharged from hospital, having com-
pletely recovered from the attack of black-
water that laid him low some”--
He broke off, wondering—striving to
understand the expression that had come
over the girl’s face. She was staring at
him with a growing horror in her eyes.
“Oh!” she cried incoherently, “don’t—
don’t make a jest of—of such things.” She
drew a deep, shuddering breath. “The very
name awakens old but terrible memories in
me, Mr. Huntley,” she went on in a shaky
voice. “Blackwater fever killed my—my
mother.”
Huntley was more than startled. He was
watching her intently, his head thrust for-
ward, his attitude tense.
“Good God!” he muttered. Slowly, gradu-
ally his face cleared as a dim recollection,
vague, blurred, stirred within his brain cells.
He looked at her now with vacant eyes
while his thoughts jerked back over the
years. In a flash it came. It was as though
a door had been opened, a curtain lifted.
He saw himself as a cub patrol-officer at
Aikoroa, on the verandah of the Residency,
with a white-faced, thin-legged, all uncom-
prehending child of five upon his knee. He
was telling her a fairy story, desperately,
chokingly, while, in the little sun-washed
clearing beyond the parade-ground, March-
mont, the district magistrate, with a stony-
faced white man by his side, was reciting
solemn words over an open grave. There
was a squad of police sombre in their serge;
crop-haired convicts in dingy broad-arrowed
loincloths; and, over all, the tropic sun
making the whole world alive and joyous
with golden light.
Huntley gulped. All his flippancies
forgotten, he leaned forward—sobered,
shocked.
“My dear,” he said very gently, “you’re
my little pal Maid Marian—’Marian Durrant
—grown up!”
The girl raised a quivering face, smiling
a little through a mist of tears.
“And you!” she said in a scarcely audible
voice—“everything about you—tricks of ex-
pression and little mannerisms—they have
been haunting me, perplexing me ever since
I saw you come aboard at Port Moresby.
Memories are very elusive, especially a
small girl’s memories. I remember—now.”
Timidly she took Huntley’s bony hand in
her small one. Her fingers clasped it
tightly. “You’re—you’re Jim!” she said
softly.
CHAPTER 11.
There was a cloud on Huntley’s face as
Marian Durrant guided his unpractised feet
through the maze of the dance. A dull
depression had long since replaced the mood
of elation with which he had embarked on
the night’s frolic. !Sj.or was it fear that he
might maladroitly tread upon Marian’s
dainty toes that weighed him down.
He was wondering what had brought
Charlie Durrant’s daughter back to New
Guinea; what her plans, her purposes were.
Nevertheless, his nerves tingled as he
accommodated her slim body to the crook
of his arm. Unconsciously his clasp tight-
ened; her soft warm breath against his
cheek and the fragrance of her hair had
upon him the effect of a drug. But always
in the deeper recesses of his consciousness
lurked a chilling apprehension. She was
so young, so vividly alive, so poised and
full of splendid courage, this little lady
who patiently steered him hither and yon;
who looked up at him with frank, smiling
eyes; who laughed at his feeble jests and
jeered at his clumsy compliments. Life, to
her, was a great adventure, a very simple,
very joyous thing. What did she know of
its ugliness, its sordidness; its tragedies of
hopes deferred, of dreams unfulfilled, of
desires frustrated?
And therein lay the cause of Jim Hunt-
ley’s despondency.
The clamor of the gramophone, the glar-
ing, naked lights, the men and women in
gala attire began harshly to jar him. A load
weighed heavily upon him. Ugly thoughts,
which he was afraid to trace to their source,
flitted through the background of his mind,
while his conscious efforts were wholly con-
cerned with his juggernaut feet. He felt,
and conquered, an unreasonable impulse to
whirl her into the arms of any one of the
half-dozen sleek-haired, slim-waisted youths
who, with overdone nonchalance, awaited a
chance to “cut in.” The gramophone
stopped. There were squeals of delight and
the clamor of clapping hands.
“Put it on again,” somebody called out,
and impatient, impetuous heels clicked xipon
the deck planks. Marian laughed, flushed,
breathless; while fanning herself she
applied a dab of powder to her nose. An
imploring voice, which Huntley recognised
as belonging to Freddie, began to expostu-
late.
“I say, Miss Durrant! Fair and square,
you know, old thing!”
Freddie had exchanged his joyous blazer
for a stiff-starched mess-jacket. His hair
was conspicuously smooth, his shirt front
was virginal, his black tie a miracle of neat-
ness. Marian nodded a joyful acknowledg-
ment to his claims. She held out her arms
to him—lovely, slender arms, they were,
Huntley thought as he stepped out of the
fairway.
He lit a cigarette, strolled across the deck
and came to rest at the rail away from the
dancers. Native deck-passengers squatted
on the poop. There were muttering voices,
hoarse laughter, the thrumming of jew’s-
harps and the tinkling tremolo of a tin
whistle. Fishing lights glowed faintly on
the distant reef and, far away—grim, menac-
ing, implacable—the mountains of New
Guinea loomed monstrous in the darkness.
Huntley looked up at the stars—the close,
intimate, Papuan stars—hung like fairy
lamps in the illimitable vault above. Little
ripples lapped against the vessel’s sides; a
murmurous drone of voices came to him;
the moan of tinned saxophones, the bla-
tant blare of tinned horns; quick, animated
sallies and a drift of lazy laughter.
Violently he hurled his cigarette into the
sea. Why the devil had Charlie Durrant’s
daughter come back? What had this grim
and merciless land to offer her? He could
see her now as she floated in Freddie’s en-
circling arms —slim and straight, serenely
assured; the unconquerable, undaunted
spirit of Youth of To-day. She moved
without effort, without conscious exertion,
her head held high, her piquant nose tilted,
her twinkling feet in perfect time.
And something deep down in Huntley
ached.
A silver disc that was the moon emerged
from the outer rim of the sea. The softly-
glowing stars paled, seemed to go out as,
swiftly, the moon climbed into the heavens,
spilling quicksilver on the surface of the sea,
casting fantastic chequered patterns upon the
snowy decks. As though by a pre-arranged
signal the natives aft burst forth into a deep,
booming chant; the air throbbed with
rhythm irresistible as thick fingers beat
upon snakeskin drums.
New Guinea laid its spell upon him.
Ashore, in dark, mysterious jungles; in reek-
ing, trackless swamps; on grim, wind-swept
mountain spurs and in fecund, verdant
valleys, men of his own skin and men whose
skins were brown kept lonely vigil this
night. Prospector and recruiter; trader
and planter; missionary and district officer
—suffering, enduring; working, striving;
■ triumphing valiantly and failing splendidly;
finding their souls and losing them in the
service of a ruthless mistress. The real
New Guinea! The New Guinea that lies
off the beaten track, away from the rattling
tin flivvers, the third-rate cinemas, the
screeching radio sets, the sophisticated nig-
gers and the languid whites—all the things
that make a travesty of civilisation in the
settlements. New Guinea the Wanton, of
the soft alluring smile and the treacherous
heart; who jeers at the ethic law, makes a
mock of the social code and insidiously
undermines the inhibitions, the very decen-
cies that keep white men white! Breathing
the miasma of sin and sorrow and suffering,
her victims litter the beaches from Mamba
Beach to the Fly. The scum of the earth
and the salt of the earth, no man knows to
which order he belongs until he has been
tested in the crucible of the world’s soli-
tary places.
Jim Huntley shivered. A vague presci-
ence of evil threw its shadow oyer him. All
his formative years had been lived in out-
back Papua, where the turmoil of the great
world came only as an echo; all his life had


—B
TS
■
MEM
at New Reduced
Price Levels!
HERE are definite indications
of the trend to lower
prices!
To comply with existing condi-
tions, Murdoch’s have introduced
new reduced price levels. Mark
you, the same superb material
and workmanship remain un-
changed, despite these ‘‘rock-
bottom” prices. From the Hat
Department we have—
21/- Fur
Felts
13/6
Pride of craftsmanship is unmis-
takably evident in this Murdoch
creation. Pure Fur Felt Hats for
Men, “Snap Brim” model in
color tones of Light, Mid or Dark
Grey, new Fawn, Brown and
Black. Greaseproof, head leathers.
“Akooka”
Quality
18/9
Exclusive Australian-made pure
Fur Felt Hats for Smart Men,
“Snap Brim” model, also “Prince”
or “Nail Curl” shapes; season’s
latest color tones to select from.
“Stralino”
Quality
25/-
Australian-made silk-lined pure
Fur Felts for Men; “Snap Brim”
style in shades of Light, Mid or
Dark Grey, Dark Fawn or
Beaver, also new Brown.
English
and Italian
35/-
Murdoch’s special value in
English and Italian quality pure
Fur Felt Hats for Men. “Snap
Brim” shape in smartest of colors.
Silk lined, too!
“J. A. MURDOCH”
the World’s
Best Hat
49/6
Superb quality, hand-finished Soft
Felts for Men. An exquisite
example of the World’s Best Hat
craftsmanship. Latest shapes and
color tones are available.
We Pay Freight.
Address all letters to Desk “R.’
Murdochs Ltd
SYDNEY
"WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.
been an unceasing struggle against the cal-
lousness, the indifference, the brutality of
Nature in the rough. Marian Durrant was
touching him deeply, appealing to his man-
hood, challenging his chivalry. He had a
sense of oppression, a feeling of unrest, of
impending tragedy; of something ugly,
sinister which he was powerless to foresee,
unable to avert. Why the devil had she
returned? Had Charlie Durrant sent for
her? Huntley’s mouth twisted into a mirth-
less grin. Doubts he had—chill, apprehen-
sive; but of one thing he was unshakably
convinced. Charlie Durrant was not ex-
pecting his daughter; her arrival at the
little plantation in Aikoroa Bay would, he
knew, shake the old man to the uttermost
depth of his soul.
He heard a brisk tap of steps upon the
deck. Two warm hands pressed tightly over
his eyes and a new sensation, tense, in-
finitely poignant, swept through him. A
flame of self-knowledge came to Jim Hunt-
ley then, driving the blood from his face,
leaving him breathless. Time itself halted
in its stride; a sense of unimaginable ecstasy
pervaded him and startled pulses hammered
in his wrists.
A voice was murmuring in his ear.
“Dear, stodgy old Jim! Does the poor
old thing feel lonely and miserable and
neglected?”
He gripped himself against the thrill that
swept him. With an effort he held his
sanity. “This,” he said fiercely to himself,
“is nothing but damned nonsense.”
But close under his heart was a nagging
pain that had not been there before.
Very gently he disengaged the hands that
still pressed upon his eyelids. Swiftly he
pivoted on his heel and held out Marian
at arm’s length.
She smiled very charmingly. “As a squire* of
lonely dames you’re a complete wash-out,
Jim,” she rallied him. “The party has
broken up; the boat-deck has come into
its own, and if I hadn’t caught a glimpse of
your uncompromising back I should have
turned in—which would have been a shock-
ing waste of a wonderful night.”
Huntley’s features did not respond to the
teasing gaiety in her voice. He drew her
to the rail and together they leaned over,
gazing into the night. Somehow words came
not easily to Huntley’s tongue. He had a
sense of holding her off, of parrying ques-
tions that had not been asked.
The ship’s bell tinkled. As its last stroke
died away a quartermaster, relieved from
duty, came with a run down the bridge com-
panion. There were lights in the smoke-
room, and, at the baize-covered tables, a
company of those festive ones whose ship-
board life is an unending progression from
the bar to their bunks and back. The deck-
houses presented an ogling fagade of illu-
minated ports. Fans whirred faintly. Re-
cumbent figures, motionless as the dead, lay
huddled on the poop, their faces in shadow
lest malignant moonrays should work evil
upon them. There was no sound, no sound
anywhere save a murmuring monotone of
little waves breaking and eddying under the
bows; no movement, save the pulsing vibra-
tions of the engines. The sea was like a
frozen sea in the magic radiance of the
moon; the glamor of a tropic night
possessed the world... .faery night....
faery ship... .astern, a long, silvery wake
... .ahead, New Guinea, crouched like a liv-
ing, breathing colossus; majestic, porten-
tous ; flaunting her age-old challenge to puny
man.
A touch of light fingers upon his arm
roused Huntley from his reverie.
“How is Daddy, Jim?”
“He is very well. Tip-top.” Huntley
answered quickly. “I expect he’ll be wait-
ing for you on the jetty at Baramata to-
morrow.”
“Gracious, no!” she assured him with a
laugh. Her voice became low, mysterious.
“Daddy hasn’t the foggiest notion that I’m
aboard this ship. That is why I’m so per-
fectly thrilled at meeting you again, Jim.
You see, I’m depending upon you to help
me give Daddy the surprise of his life.”
With an effort Huntley achieved casual-
ness.
“But, my dear,” he demurred, “you can’t
do things like that, you know. Not in New
Guinea. Why the secrecy?”
“He promised to allow me to join him
just as soon as I left school,” Marian told
him vehemently. “But always he has put
me off on some pretext or other. I’ve been
absolutely at a loose end for a year or
more, spending a month here and a month
there with Daddy’s sisters and his cousins
and his aunts.” Her voice took on a note
of dignity. “My place, now that I’m grown
up, is with my father—on the job, Jim—
New Guinea fashion. What are you going
to do about it?”
“My dear child”
“Don’t be so fussy, Jim! Daddy needs
me and I need him; but if I waited for him
to give the word I’d never leave Australia.
Don’t you understand, Jim?” A coaxing
note came into her voice. “Besides, it will
only be for a little while. Daddy is grow-
ing old and New Guinea is no place for an
old man w r hose memories are—a fountain
of bitterness. Nataroa Plantation is in full
bearing, and Daddy is well able to retire
from active work and enjoy life—with me.
In a few months’ time I’ll have a compe-
tent, up-to-date manager installed; an
agent appointed, and poor old Daddy will
be able to take the rest that, thanks to an
expensive daughter, is ten years overdue.”
Huntley looked at her almost with fur-
tiveness. Things that had been obscure were
becoming clear. There was nothing cheap,
nothing second-rate about Marian Durrant.
The timbre of her voice, her easy diction,
her impeccable vowels were the products of
a good school. The evening frock that
accentuated the slim perfection of her form,
the cloak that hung negligently on her arm
had the deceptive simplicity that goes with
expensive models. The square-cut emerald
in the ring she wore was good, the brocaded
shoes that set off her wondrously-arched in-
steps had not been ordered from a mail-
order catalogue. Everything about her, even
to Huntley’s undiscerning eye, proclaimed
taste, the perfection of luxury, the posses-
sion of money. Unmistakably it had taken
much hard cash to produce the finished
article that was Charlie Durrant’s amazing
little daughter.
But where would she fit into the scheme
of things at Aikoroa Bay?
He could envisage her—easily—in a Port
Moresby setting. She would be exasperated,
then dismayed, then amused at the social
order of incomprehensible cliques and baf-
fling combinations; at the little people play-
ing at being great personages;' at the silly
pretentiousness and the two-penny half-
penny snobbery; at the selfishness, the
littleness, the meanness; the prying, the
peering, the spying—at all the little weak-
nesses common to poor humanity the world
over which life in a sun-scorched, isolated
fag-end of civilisation brings out and accen-
tuates. Marian was thoroughbred. Instinc-
tively she would set up a barrier against
the ugly things, the contemptible things.
With unerring judgment she would separate
the true from the false, the gold from the
dross, and the real countenance —the
homely, kindly, hospitable countenance —
that lies behind the leering mask Port
Moresby shows to the world, to her would
be revealed.
But Marian Durrant’s destiny awaited her
at Aikoroa Bay. The thought stabbed
Huntley like a knife. Aikoroa was not Port
Moresby; it was damnably different.
A school of mullet broke the surface of
the sea in a swirl of phosphorescent fire. The
law of the pack, Huntley mused—in the
jungle, in the air, in the uttermost depths
of the sea. Always there were hunters and
hunted, pursuers and pursued, destroyers
and destroyed.
“Sometimes I’m afraid of New Guinea,
Jim. All women must be afraid in their
hearts. And men, too, I think.” Her eyes
were on the mountain tops, faint, illusive,
infinitely remote. “They’re beautiful in this
light, but somehow they bring back memo-
ries—rare, vague, frightening: the moun-
tains, the whispering of the sea, the star-
shine, everything. I wonder if Daddy ever
feels—feels” She shook her head im-
patiently, defiantly. “I mustn’t give way
to morbid fancies, Jim. I mustn’t let New
Guinea get me down. I must think of it
not as a place of exile, but as home —my
real home.”
The shadow went from her eyes. Clear,
happy, courageous, they looked into his.
The sense of her nearness stung him like a
flame. A longing to take her in his arms
came to him, to press his mouth on hers.
It would be so easy to sweep her in a
mighty embrace, to prison her. Huntley
set his teeth. Gentleness! Scrupulousness!
Chivalry! Dictionary words, they were—
high-sounding, but empty, meaningless. Yet
to Jim Huntley it seemed tremendously
important that he should keep faith with
himself; tremendously important that
Charlie Durrant’s daughter should be safe
in his keeping.
He groped in his pocket for his cigarette
case. The mad moment passed.
They were talking inconsequently of this
and that—he of his work, his experiences;
she of the plans that centred about her
father, steering clear of the treacherous
shoals of memory, dwelling only on the
happy things. He tried not to see the
dainty curve of her throat, the ripple in
her shingled hair, her provocative eyes, the
quick movements of her hands. The min-
utes flew along. They ceased to be aware
of the lateness of the hour; of the rising
mumble of voices from the smoke-room;
the sound of unsteady feet stumbling over
the coaming, and the long-drawn-out hic-
coughing “Goo’-nights.”
The ship’s bell rang out; somewhere was
a click and the deck was in darkness.
Marian uttered a startled exclamation.
“Good-night, Jim,” she whispered. “Dear,
dependable old Jim!” She touched him
timidly on the arm. “Always pals, Jim?”
“Always, Maid Marian,” he answered
very gravely.
He looked at her contemplatively. She
seemed little more than a child as she stood
there, for all her dainty assurance, her
pretty air of worldly wisdom. For a second
there was an awkwardness, a constraint in
her manner. Then, with a sudden change
of mood and emotion, she put both hands
on his shoulders, lifted herself on her toes
and kissed him lightly on the cheek.
A fire burned in Huntley’s veins; the
blood drummed in his temples. He flung
out his arms, but Marian Durrant had fled.
“You fool!” he muttered. “You poor
fish!”
Silver moon in a starlit void; waters lap-
ping upon the stem and gurgling astern;
steady tramp of feet upon the bridge;
decks vibrating gently under the thresh of
the screw; the fragrance of a girl’s breath
upon his cheek; the thrill of a kiss that
was entirely meaningless; that was no more
than a small child’s salute to an elder
brother—or elderly uncle.
Huntley’s face went suddenly bleak.
“You fool!” he muttered again. “You
utter, damned fooll”
CHAPTER 111.
Dawn was quivering rosy in the east.
The steamer had changed course during
the night, and, standing in towards the land,
had passed through the Barrier Reef. As
the swiftly rising sun diffused its magic over
the sea vistas of alluring, almost indescrib-
able beauty unfolded themselves to the
early risers on the promenade deck. The
mountain tops stood out in purple silhou-
ette against the irradiated sky. Near they
seemed, yet incredibly distant, floating like
enchanted islands in an ocean of luminous
cloud. The sea gleamed, amethyst and
gold, placid as a lake. Gems of islands
clothed with a density of glistening ver-
dure lifted themselves joyously out of the
sea. There was an interminable mutter of
surf breaking at the base of jungle-covered
foothills that seemed to roll into the ocean;
the fragrance of growing things was oddly
blended with the tang of the salt sea;
native villages, dun-hued, against a back-
ground of vivid green were discernible along
the grotesquely indented shore line, and
minute figures that, through the glasses, be-
came brown-skinned, naked urchins raced
madly along the beach.
But a lookout, keeping solitary vigil in
the crow’s-nest, warned those with eyes to
see that uncharted dangers lurked treacher-
ously beneath the still, opalescent waters;
that navigation off the reef-studded Papuan
coast is still an adventure fraught with
peril.
Marian had been up betimes watching
with eager satisfaction the matchless pano-
rama of land and sea and sky. Now she
was perched on the rail, her slim legs dang-
ling, one hand clasping a stanchion, the
other on Huntley’s shoulder. She was star-
ing at a pouchy-eyed man of fat and cheer-
ful countenance who was imbibing with
undisguised satisfaction the pink-tinted con-
tents of a very long glass.
“That’s the third he’s had, Jim,” she
whispered. “Are they—they”
“They are,” Huntley told her drily.
“Very.”
The fat man caught Huntley’s eye.
“Mornin’, Mr. Magistrate,” he wheezed.
“Comeanaver—comeanaver few gin-slings.”
Huntley shook his head, smiling.
“I know they’re bad for me,” the fat man
confided, “damned bad! Wot with the
sodawater in ’em and all. But cripes!
ain’t they ’eavenly!”
A deep resonant voice was borne to them.
Marian turned her head and intercepted an
anguished glance from the youth Freddie.
A tall, angular man in clerical attire had a
crowd of women round him.
“And at the extreme right, ladies, we dis-
cern the twin peaks of Mount Victoria,”
the lecturer was getting into his stride,
“Monarch of the Owen Stanley Range.
Thirteen thousand two hundred feet she
rears her proud head above”
“But do tell us, dear Mr. Blessington,” a
determined-looking lady with a salmon-
colored complexion broke in. “We are so
interested. Do these horrible black people
really and truly eat one another?”
“Excuse me,” Freddie murmured. “I
really must go.”
“One moment, young man.” Freddie
subsided limply. Mr. Blessington turned to
his questioner. He looked pained.
“Madam,” he remonstrated, “on countless
public platforms, sacred and—ah—secular,
throughout the length and breadth of Aus-
tralia, I have declared with, I venture to
say, no uncertain voice that the eating
of human flesh—cannibalism, in short —
has been ab-so-lutely stamped out in New
Guinea. No longer do the aboriginal inhabi-
tants of this barbarous land prey upon”
“ ’Ave a ’eart, Padre!” the fat man inter-
posed. “And me with a cook-boy wot et
’is own mother-in-law! Did time for it,
too, ’e did. Ask Mr. ’Untley ’ere. ’E
knows.” He winked genially at Huntley.
He exuded goodwill. “Don’t be uppish, ol’
man,” he pleaded—“comeanaver a few gin-
slings.”
Mr. Blessington turned his back on the
fat’ man. Freddie lit a cigarette with osten-
tatious boredom.
“As we journey west we have an inter-
minable jumble of mighty peaks and inac-
cessible pinnacles—Mount Albert Edward,
twelve thousand five hundred feet above the
level of the sea; Scratchley, but a few hun-
dred feet lower; Winter Douglas, Knutsford
—all towering masses of moss-covered rock
compared with which”
“Stooard!” called out the fat man in
sudden alarm. “Where’s George? Where’s
the stooard gone to, hey?”
“I say, sir,” Freddie put in, desperation
in his voice, “I’m most frightfully inter-
ested in—er—alligators—er—crocodiles, you
know. Are there many of these—er—crea-
tures in New Guinea?”
Mr. Blessington fixed him with a cold eye
“Hundreds, young man,” he declared.
“In fact, I think I may venture to assert,
without fear of being charged with the—ah
—vice of exaggeration, thousands—liter-
ally thousands, my dear young man.”
The ladies shuddered deliciously. Freddie
wriggled.
“And—er—do they lay eggs?” he de-
manded desperately. “I mean—er —that is
to say—er —how are the young of the—er—
species brought into the world?”
Huntley’s mouth twitched. “I think,” he
remarked, “I’m going to like your friend
Freddie.”
Marian’s eyes sparkled with mischief that
was almost coquetry. Her tilted chin and
impudent nose gave her a puck-like air of
provocation. Her smile was maddening.
(To be continued next icsek.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Rosehill club had pleasant spring weather
and an unusually large attendance for its
Cup meeting, and the course never looked
better. The club gardener is an arcist, and
the show of flowers and flowering shrubs was
beautiful. But for the most part it was
wasted on the punter, a soulless animal, in
his fierce pursuit of winners—a disastrous
pursuit on Saturday, for four of the six races
went to outsiders, and it was impossible
to get square on the Hill Stakes. In that
race McShortodds refused to accept any odds
about I’liar Lap (the tote paid 11s. 6d. for
10s., only £7 10s. going on), but held a little
1-2 money—6 to 4 Sir Clirystoplxer, 7 to 4
Chide, 3 to 1 Waugoola. Phar Lap was in
front nearly all the way; Chide gained on
him in the run home, and got to within a
length and a half, but it was only on suf-
ferance. Waugoola, three lengths behind the
Maoriland horse —who, it must be said, wears
a solider appearance than at any previous
period of his Australian career —just beat Sir
Chrystopher for third place; the grey is not
running in his fine autumn form.
Burracootboo redeemed his reputation in
the Camellia Stakes. lie may not capture
the Epsom but ought to pick up a
handicap at Randwiek, and he will win good
races when he has had more experience of
the business —he is still a bit green. Second
favorite at threes, he was prominent from the
start and second into the straight to Autopay
(10 to 1). At the Leger he made a dash at
the leader, and seemed to have his measure,
but Autopay, who had the inside position,
hung on stoutly and beat the Warwick Farm
horse by a head. Ticino, backed from fives
to 5 to 2, ran a good even race, but was two
or three lengths behind Burracootboo at the
finish; Pavilion, the only other horse in the
market, gave no trouble, but was interfered
with. Autopay, who is a four-year-old bay
stallion by Paper Money—Trebelli 11., is
now talked of for the Epsom, but his per-
easy, Gert, tvhis hiliJs
NOT TOO SAFE? 1
■ Cant slow down - the^
BRAKES ARE NOT WORKwdf.
oERT'*'?bu DOMT M&AN TO SACV
bn Doht get PANievoj 'b*e.
TDOTERS AA-U t?VQHT
formance, creditable as it was, did not strike
this Page that way.
•
A more impressive Epsom trial was done
by Sir Duninald (3 to 11 in the first divi-
sion of the Higliweight. Handicap. Carrying
9st. 131 b., and badly placed most of the
journey, this four-year-old son of The Ver-
derer—Piedish came through finely just when
McShortodds was seeing visions of Just Gold
giving him a skinner (her tote div. was
£8 Os. 6d. for 10s.) ; he flashed past the
well-tried second favorite, Havaspot, and
went on to score comfortably from Just
Gold and Oratorian, a tliree-year-old half-
brother to Oratrix and Concentrate, showing
his first glimpse of form. Sir Duninald gal-
loped the seven furlongs in lmin. 26sec.,
only a second slower than Autopay’s time,
He won’t have Pike to ride him at Rand-
wick, but he will have 2st. 51b. off his back,
and there will be no fitter horse in the field,
Nothing looks likelier to get a place, at least,
• • • • • ‘
Chatham was taken out of the Rosehill
Guineas, but be galloped half a mile in
49sec. in the morning, so there can’t be
much wrong with him. A fortnight’s inter-
ruption in his Derby preparation is, of
course, a serious matter; still he was pretty
forward before he got his cold, and he may
vet thoroughly test Ammon Ra. Whether
Ptolemy will is another question. On the
strength of his second to Ammon Ra in the
Chelmsford Stakes, the colt from Dan
Lewis’s stable was made a 6-to-4 favorite
for the Rosehill Guineas. Rondalina, Phar
Lap’s stable-companion—a shapely brown
filly with an easv style of galloping—was
at fours, after opening a t 5 to 2; Le Legion
(7 to 1) was the only other asked for. Old
Ming, avlio is going to turn out good at seven
furlongs o r a mile, bounded to the front,
with Rondalina and Flying Dave (14 to 1)
well up; but Ptolemy, after beginning fairly
well dropped—or was bumped—back among
the last ‘lot and seventh (his position at
the finish) was the nearest he got. He pro-
bablv would have done better with a stronger
bov than Burn on his back, though it has
been suggested that he has gone off. Old
Ming, whose appearance is still burly, faded
in the straight, and Rondalina took charge,
hotlv challenged bv Flying Dave and Light-
nin" March (16 to 1). Lightning March
finished a shade the best, and got there by
a head from Flving Dave, with Rondalina
half a head away; then, after a gap, came
Jolly Wonga. Le' Legion and Old Ming.
• • • •
“Who is Lightning March?” people said,
for he hadn’t raced this season. Then it
was remembered that he had won the A.J.C.
Canonbury Stakes. Like Balloon King,
winner of the 1930 Itosehill Guineas and
of the Victorian Derby, lie was bred by the
late John Brown and is raced by John’s
executors; he is a chestnut colt by March
Along—Princess Electra. Frank McGrath
trains him, and Hornery had the mount. It
was a capital “first-up” performance, and
Lightning March is another that will have
to be reckoned with in the A.J.C. Derby.
Vigne (S to 1) won the Cup as easily as
Crag-ford did last year, in much the same
.style (rushing to the front three furlongs
from home and easing up at the finish) and
in half a second faster time. And Cragford’s
2min. 181 sec. was a course record for 11
furlongs. Cragford went on to win the Met-
ropolitan, and would probably have furnished
into a w.f.a. horse but for his untimely death.
Vigne has been withdrawn from the Metrop,,
but is now one of the favorites for the Caul-
field Cup. In that race he has 7.st. 51b.,
101 b. less than the weight under which he
made hacks of a strong field at Rosehill;
and at the moment he looks a paper cer-
tainty, allowing that Phar Lap is still in.
But there is not much of Vigne, and young
Barden, his trainer, may have a job to get
him to the post in the pink of condition.
Second to the brilliant Chrysippus—Regard
gelding, but five or six lengths behind him,
was Veilmond (3 to 1), who finished rather
well. Third, a length further away, was
Concentrate (20 to 1), whose Metrop. chance
may be said to be improving, as he is in good
form and is one of the few real stayers in
the race. Talkie was fourth and Spearman
fifth. Spearman came home strongly after
having had a rough passage, and Salvador
was also .moving well at the finish. But
nothing had a chance with Vigne, who was
ridden by Darby Munro.
* .;. * *
For the Hawkesbury on Saturday:—
Rowley Mile: Trenette; next, Chief Joy.
Flying Handicap: Gesture; next, Omagh.
Spring Handicap: Soulton; next, Black
Douglas.
Three-year-old Handicap: Chatham; next,
Herolage.
Highweight Handicap: Workman; next,
Frontier.
* ■ * * *
Tote divs. at Mentone were on a higher
basis than bookmakers’ prices, but there
was some comment on the absence of an
odds-barometer, to which Melbourne people
have grown accustomed elsewhere in the
latest Julius machine. By the beginning
of next month every racecourse m the Vic.
metropolis, with the exception ot the pony
rinks, will have machine betting. The
Trotting and Racing Association has been
granted extension of time to close down at
Richmond and Fitzroy and restrict its rae-
ing to a remodelled Ascot,
* ‘ ' ‘ ’ „
Two Heroic fillies, La Joconde and &t.
Valour, shared favoritism with Pennthus
(Devizes—Chersonese), a half-brother to
Heroic, in the Three-year-old Handicap
at Mentone. The honors went to La Joconde,
who finished brilliantly to score by half a
neck from Perinthus, with Picatus, a Mag-
pie colt, only half a neck farther away. St.
Valour disappointed her owner, F. b.
Meyers, by fading out after being well
placed. High Brae, with whom Jack Holt
had been hopeful of gaining Derby honors
for Mrs. L. R. Buxton, might have won if
he had not received a bad bump at the back
of the course, where Perinthus and the Tas-
manian gelding Timur also were interfered
with. High Brae finished courageously and
j s improving, but is not in the same class as
Ammon Ra.
* * ’
From a Clip standpoint the most note-
worthy performance was that of Prince Day-
ton, who took the first, division of the seven
furlongs Welter Handicap. This fave-year-
old son of Cyklon is owned by Jack Hurley,
a paddock fielder. He was handicapped to
receive 101 b. from old Highland, who'is
only a shadow of the galloper that vanquished
Gothic at w.f.a. Holt was not enamored
of Highland’s chance, but the veteran ruled
favorite until deposed at the last moment
by Prince Dayton, who had been supported
from 5 to 1 to 3 to 1. When Prince Day-
ton and Highland were at the rear ot the
field after travelling two furlongs, it dul
not look as if either would troutde the
judge. Seville Percival had dashed lemoin
to the front. But Highland got through on
the rails at the home turn and threw out
a strong challenge. Prince Dayton was
compelled to go to the extreme outside ot
the field; but when they faced for the box
he put in an amazing run and scored, clear-
ing out, by two lengths from Temoin, who
was a neck in advance of. Highland,
‘ ‘ ‘ ’, , . ~
Prince Dayton has been backed for the
Caulfield Cup. He is a slow beginner, and
may have a better chance in _tlm Melbourne
Cup. Cyklon already has sired a winner
of that race, Tnyalve. The dam, Tola is
by Prince Foote (another Cup hero), from
Seville, by Wallace (sire of two Melbourne
Cup winners, Kingsburgh and Patrobas)
from Andalusite (imp.) by Or me. T us is
breeding good enough for anything, and,
humble though his career may have been
before this year, Prince Dayton is a thor-
oughbred of great handicap possibilities. His
finish on Saturday reminded one of the man-
ner in which Eurythmie came home in the
Sydney Cup of 1921.
All Crimson, a 20-to-l chance, captured
the Mentone Handicap, in which Minorca
failed badly. The rather venerable son of Bar-
dolph wins at intervals in fields of good class,
but the handicappers continue to treat him
kindly. The allowance claimed by his appren-
tice jockey brought All Crimson’s impost down
to 6st. 71b. Just when Farlure had
triumphed over a lot of difficulties and hit
the front, All Crimson .swooped down and
scored by more than a length.
Among young Melbourne jockeys of high
promise is 11. Skidmore, who rode four win-
ners at Mentone. He is apprenticed to
Steve Murphy, who captured the Mentone
Purse with Spear King and a division of
the Welter Handicap with Prince Dayton.
Another of Murphy’s boys, D. Smith, landed
the Mentone Plate on Loquacity, a 50-to-l
Pop.
❖ ❖ ❖
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Quality Handicap: Waterline; next, Wise
Force.
Ailsa Handicap; Gracwin; next, Umber-
tana.
John McMahon, chairman of the A.J.C.
stipendiary stewards, who died in Sydney
last week at 66, had been closely connected
with racing for over 30 years, first as a han-
dicapper and later as a stipendiary steward.
He was one of the first stipendiaries
appointed by the A.J.C., and when that hap-
pened in 1904 he was one of the executive
officers of the Clarence River Jockey Club. In
1912 he went to Maoriland, where he became
chief stipendiary, returning in 1928 to Sydney
to fill the post vacated by J. Higgins. The
A.J.C. official had been ill for some time, but
his death came as a surprise to his large
circle of acquaintances.
* $ * *
“Div.”: Australian totes can now be found
nearly everywhere on earth. The latest is to
go up on the course of the Miami Jockey
Club in Florida and is to be a £25,000 job.
The machine will be like those recently
erected on the Victorian metropolitan
courses, except that instead of two pools
there will be three, to suit American tastes,
Over there they have one pool for the
winner, one for first and second and another
for 1,2, 3, these being known as the straight
pool, the place pool and the show pool. It
will be the first electrically operated tote seen
in Yankeedom. and is expected to be running
hv Tannarv 15
by January 10. * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: At long last the N.S.W.
Government has agreed to reduce racecourse
admission taxation provided the clubs agree
to make a cut in their charges. Another
proposed relief for the punter is the exefnp-
tion of the stake , in winning bets from the
present taxation, which has been a source of
irritation to all concerned since its impost,
and has led to all sorts of dodges on the part of
layers and takers to circumvent it. The A.J.C.
charges for many years have been Is. at the
entrance gates, 2s. additional to the Leger,
and 11s. to the saddling paddock. State and
Federal taxes have increased these amounts
to Is. 2d., 4s. 3d. and 15s. 3d. A.R.C. charges
are the same for the saddling paddock and
the Leger.
tui r j d a «. \ D l
M.Q. (and rxctficrty) rxules
Ambrose Palmer (11.5) was too pugna-
cious for Bob Thornton (11.21) at Sydney
Stadium o'n Saturday night, and, winning all
the way, regained the Australian middle-
weight championship. When Thornton took
the 11.6 title on a foul from Palmer in
Melbourne last month, experts declared the
new champion not nearly as good as the
old one. Thornton displayed remarkable im-
provement, but he could not cope with his
forceful opponent, who ran out a very popu-
lar points winner.
* * * *
If Eddie Daniels could only give a por-
lion of the punishment lie receives, the husky
colored American would beat many opponents,
Opposed to Australian welterweight eliam-
pion Russ Critcher (lOst. 541 b.) at Leicli-
hardt last Friday, Daniels (lOst. Sflb.) took
delivery of punches solid enough to send the
average boxer to sleep. Not one of these
weighty wallops could upset the darkie. But
he was outspeeded in every round ; Critcher
won by a .street.
r- ,i i
h ootbrawl
For a change Melbourne had a fine week-
end. save for a high wind, and 52,140 per-
sons paid £2495 at the Melbourne C. G.
turnstiles to witness the semi-final between
Carlton and Collingwood. It proved the
most disappointing game of the season,
Before the first quarter ended it became
appareut that Carlton could do nothing
wrong, ’Wood nothing right. The Blues
marked cleanly and passed accurately ; they
scored goals from outrageous angles; they
kicked casually off the ground and the ball
rolled through the posts. The Magpies
marked poorly, and when they got shots right
in front the ball went anywhere. At half-
time the board said Carlton 8 goals 1 behind,
’Wood 1 goal 9 beliinds. It was the Blues'
day out. Vallence, their best forward,
booted 11 goals; Harry Clover, now a vet-
eran of 36, used his head as effectively as
his foot; Gill, Davey and JMartyn did extra
well. Of the Magpies only Syd Coventry
was at his top. Final scores were : Carlton,
20 goals 10 beliinds; ’Wood, 5 goals 12 be-
liinds. At the match between the same clubs
three weeks before they were; Co'llingwood,
20-15; Carlton, 10-14. On that occasion
the crowd at Victoria Park hooted and
counted out the losing side, and when the
scores were posted at Footscray (’Seray
was battling for a place in the semi-finals)
there were shouts of “Stewards !’’ But there
are no stewards in the noble game of foot-
ball.
“Richmond”: Touching that matter of
“travelling expenses” for country footballers
playing for Melbourne clubs (B. 16/9/’3l).
the promises made to lure them from the great
open spaces to the bright lights have taken
on a Jack Langish aspect in many instances.
Several country players brought down to
Melbourne this season on the assurance that
a job would be provided for them in addi-
tion to appearance money have found them-
selves left in the soup. The Gipjjsland league
is advising its lads that when an offer is made
them to trek to Melbourne to have it all in
writing, duly witnessed, and stamped as a
contract.
* # * *
The much-boomed match in Sydney
between South Sydney, the metropolitan
Rugby League premiers, and “Group 9” from
the country, described as “man-eaters,” proved
a dire fiasco. The game was for the cham-
pionship of N.S.W., but any second-grade
team would have made a better showing than
the visitors against the not-very-formidable
Southerners, who romped home by 31 to 15,
scoring 7 tries to 3 and 5 goals to 3. Souths,
who could have added considerably to their
total, outclassed the visitors back and
for’ard. This was not so much due to their
own super-football as to the ineptitude of
the countrymen, whose defence was shocking.
Rarely, either, did the men from Outback
show any acumen or determination in
attack, though occasionally. Weissel and
Fifield were notable. Wearing closed ■
first-class football caieei with >onth h by
adding a try a nd two goals to his lon s list
of both. . ...
' Man-iiand
The Australian Rugbyites in Maoriland
gave the be st turn 0 f their tour against the
strong Ilawkes Bay side at Napier, winning
handsomely by 27-11, or < trieso converted,
to 3 tries, one converted The teamwasat
its top all round, the Victorian rep., Cowpei,
in particular showing
mg 4 .tries. Malcolm, who has had a great
tour is admitted the best n the
country, and lias been well helped by Queens
lander Boms, whose successful nookim
should have brought better resul s m
back division. In the last match b
the tour Taranaki beat the tourists, against
whom many penalties were given 11-10, oil
converted try and two penalty goals to two
converted tries. The Australians were unfo -
tunate in losing Malcolm early in the game,
but lost many easy openings.
T. C. Davis, manager of the Australian
Rugby team in Maoriland, who was recalled
to Sydney on private business before the end
of the tour, is loud in his praises of the
leception accorded the tourists wherever
they went. He finds fault, however, with tut
arrangement of the itinerary, which involved
long and trying journeys, with little time
between for training and team practice,
* * * *
J. A. Fraser, who died in Sydney last
week at 64, was a notable figure in the Aus-
tralian Rugby Union world in the ’nineties,
A giant in bulk, “Jumbo” was a sterling for-
ward, but he was a handy man in more titan
one position, notably at stand-off half. He
originally played with the old Parramatta
club, later transferring to Randwick, an
figured for N.S.W. against Queensland c
the All Blacks for half a dozen seasons from
1890 to 1897.
'
The Goulburn-Sydney road race, the
N.S.W. push-bike classic, was run on Satin-
day in the usual two divisions for ainateui
and professional. W. Freebairn, of Rand*
wick, riding with a 40min. start, was hrs
home in 6hr. 56min. 37sec., while N. Dilroy.
another N.S.W. rider, took fastest time with
6hr. 47min. 55sec., only a fifth of a secouc
better than H. Cruise, the solitary Victorian
to show up in either section, both men start-
ing from scratch. A. T. Kenney, of Dulwicn
Hill, with 48 minutes, won the amateur
section, J. Buckley, of Marrickville, cutting
out the 131 miles in 6hr. 23mm. oOsec., to
win the fastest-time prize.


3S
m
fez
.
*****
n.e.
49/27
dfs
The Ford Well-type Light Delivery is particularly
suitable for grocery deliveries, plumbers, contractors,
farm and station work, etc., etc. Also obtainable
with fully enclosed Coupe cab at slight extra cost.
40 horse power lor fast
low cost haulage!
This Standard Light Delivery is ideal for speedy cartage
of cream and milk. (Special bodies are available). It is
also widely used for general half-ton haulage in town
and country.
222
m
Ford Half-Ton Wire-side Van with enclosed cab. Store-
keepers and nurserymen find that it speeds deliveries
and reduces costs.
HTHE cost of haulage, today, must be kept to a
minimum, consistent with speed, safety, and
smart appearance of the vehicle itself.
Ford Light Delivery units—with open and fully
enclosed cabs—are roomy, fast, smooth-riding,
handsome and, above all, their first cost and
upkeep cost are particularly low.
The secret of Ford low running costs is the
famous Ford 4-cylinder engine. It developes 40
horsepower at the low engine speed of 2,200 rev-
olutions per minute... this saves wear of moving
parts, It is built of really fine materials by strict
precision methods . . . this ensures freedom from
repairs. It has proved that more than four cyl-
inders are superfluous . . - that extra cylinders
simply mean extra expense in upkeep.
If you seek real economy in delivery costs, seek
facts and figures from Ford owners and let
your Ford Dealer demonstrate at your own work.
Ford Prices s Light Commercial Chassis, £190: Standard Light Delivery, £223: Well-Type Light Delivery,
£223: Standard or Well-Type Light Delivery with fully enclosed Coupe cab, £241: Half-ton Canopy Van,
£242 (with wire sides, £243): Half-ton Panel Van, £243: Ford 30-cwt. Truck models from £220 . . .
All prices f.o.b. nearest Ford works ... Sales Tax extra.
dfs
Ford Motor Company
of Australia Ptu. Ltd.
The Ins and Outs
The cricket season formally opens in
N.S.\V. this week-end, Victoria kicking off
the following Saturday. The South African
tour begins at Perth on October 22, and the
Sheffield Shield season with the match be-
tween N.S.W. and Queensland at Brisbane
on November 6, so a pretty full bill of fare
is being dished up for cricket followers. The
first of the Tests against the Springboks will
be played in Brisbane, beginning November
27. Sydney will see the second on December
18; then follow matches in Melbourne
(December 31), Adelaide (January 29) and
Melbourne again on February 12. All these
games will be played out, the larger stumps
being used, while the over will consist of
six balls.
* =l= * *
“Aigburtli” : The Maoriland cricketers in
England had bad luck in striking one
of the worst seasons experienced for many
years, several of the matches being aban-
doned, the third Test included. After a
good start the side fell off somewhat, though
conditions were all against them. Their
closing match against Sir Julius Cahn’s team
at Old Trafford was notable for a century
by 55-year-old John Gunn, of Notts. John
was seen only once in Australia, when he
was a member of McLaren’s 1901-02 side,
though he figured in several Tests in Eng-
land. A good all-rounder, he had a batting
average of something over 10 runs in Tests
and took 18 wickets at a cost of 21.50 runs
apiece.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : The English cricket season
closed last week with Yorkshire easily win-
ner of the county championship. Consider-
ing the vile batting conditions which pre-
vailed most of the time, Herbert Sutcliffe’s
average of 96.96 was a wonderful one. For
some time he had three figures opposite his
name, -but fell back at the finish. Brad-
man’s 98.66 last year is the only higher one
recorded for an English season. Sutcliffe
scored 3006 runs, the second time he has ex-
ceeded 3000, and now lines up with Tom Hay-
ward, Mead, Ilendren and Ranji. Larwood,
said to be better than ever, topped the
bowling list with 129 wickets, costing 12.03
runs each. For the fourth year in succes-
sion the Kent professional Freeman has
taken the greatest number of wickets, his
bag being 276. Yet he has been passed over
for Test-match selection time and again, and
was a comparative failure in Australia with
Gilligan’s team of six years ago.
❖ % *
“Goosequill” : The problem of the player-
writer is still giving the Australian cricket
heads sleepless nights. The Bradman-Grim-
mett cases, which were supposed to have
come up for review at the recent meeting of
the Board of Control, .seem to have been
shelved again, but a new list of instructions
regarding writing for the press lias been
issued. The board will not “approve” of
the selection of any varlet Who writes or
otherwise contributes cricket comment to the
newspapers in connection with first-class
matches, though if he is a working journalist
he may get a certificate of exemption from
the tin gods. There seems to be no ban on
commenting on grade cricket. So it would
seem that all Ponsman has to do if he is
jealous of the prowess of Bradford, or vice
versa, is to criticise the latter’s play, or his
manners in general, if he has any, taking
performances in these minor games only for
his text.
••I: $ *
“Aunt Sally”: G. L. Garnsey, official
cricket coach to the N.S.W. Cricket Associa-
tion, girded up his loins the other day and
got busy on the job. One of his opening
efforts is the formation of a class for members
of the Teachers’ College, and for a month
he will instruct the budding dominies in the
mysteries of the game with a view to their
passing his wisdom on. Another innovation
will be the broadcasting of cricket lectures
every Thursday for the next two months, with
a special object of benefiting young players in
the country who are cut off from coaching-
facilities.
Racquet and Bawl
“Westchester”: The American tennis
championships provided a surprise, the
winner of the singles turning up in Ells-
worth Vines, a newcomer to big tennis. His
opponent in the final was another young
player, G. M. Lott, who threw out last
year’s champion, Doeg, in a semi-final. The
best English performer was the Davis Cup
player F. J. Perry, who was beaten by
Vines after a hard five-set go in the other
semi-final. The doubles went to Alison and
Van Ryn, who have two wins at Wimbledon
to their credit, in addition to their defeat
of Borotra and Cochet in the Davis Cup
challenge round doubles of 1929.
❖ ijs # $
“Top Spin” : Working on the form shown
in this season’s Davis Cup play and in the
English and American championships, a
leading French authority has ranked the
ten leading tennis-players of the world.
Cochet heads the list, followed by Vines, the
new American champion. Perry and Austin,
of England, come third and fourth, and are
followed by Shields and Wood, of America ;
.Jean Borotra; Satoh, of Japan; and two
more Yanks in Van Ryn and Lott. It is
something new to see English players listed
so high. The standard of the Britons has
risen remarkably in the last two or three
years.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Coulsdon” : Susie Tolliurst, who won her
second successive Australian championship
at Kensington (N.S.W.) when she defeated
Mona McLeod by 7 and 6 to play, has all the
marks of a world-beater. She has been round
the tricky Sandringham (Vic.) course, as
well as Kensington, in 70. Her driving is
terrific —failure to get distance is, of course,
the trouble with most women champions—and
she reinforces it by deadly accuracy near
and on the greens—largely the result of her
perfect golfing temperament. Anyone with
a gift for games can learn the shots, but
it takes a phenomenon to play them
under trying conditions. As a case in
point, it was temperament that caused
the N. S. Wales star Odette Lefebvre
to crash against Mona McLeod, who won by
4 up and 3 in the semi-final. The Sydney
girl has a fine stroke-making equipment, in-
eluding a 250-yard drive, but she developed
headupitis at a crucial stage, and that was
the end of her. It is almost impossible to
imagine the placid Miss Tolliurst erring on
such lines. In her easy forceful drives, and
in some of her iron shots, she reminded the
writer of Joyce Wethered, as the English
wonder was five years ago. Yet it was on the
greens that the Victorian won all her matches
last week. To sum her up, she has the
strokes of the best of her rivals and a steadier
nerve than any of them. On present form she
should extend any woman now playing in
Britain or the U.S.A.
* * * *
“Blimp”: Boy champions are becoming a
drug on the Vic. golfing market. lan Mein,
aged 15, of Melbourne Grammar, has done
one under fours for the first nine on the Com-
monwealth links, and he got into the final
of the Victorian boys’ championship the
other day. Jack Ralph, also of Grammar,
eventually beat him 4 up and 3, but Ralph
is 18. Young Mein gets immense dis-
tances without appreciable effort, and so
does 16-year-old Harry Parr, whom he
downed in the semi-final. These youngsters,
and dozens more like them, have now the
advantages which their parents lacked of
skilled tuition and first-class links to prac-
tise on since they first handled clubs. If
some golfing Bradmans aren’t the outcome
before long the southern States are going to
be surprised.
si: * * *
“Retired Forty”: That reference to a
Sydney case concerning property rights in
lost golf balls (B. 9/9/’3l) brings to mind
a recent happening at Roma (Q.). A small
boy discovered a ball in a magpie’s nest
in a tree on the local golf course. The youth
took the ball to the 19th hole and offered it
for sale to a club member. The latter —let us
call him Bronson —found his own private
mark on the ball, which he had lost some
months before, but, being a sportsman,
rewarded the finder. As a coincidence the
happening should be hard to beat. •
* * * *
“Pandit”: It is notorious in connection
with all sports that their most prominent
exponents are usually ignorant of many of
the rules governing their own particular
obsession. There was an instance of this
during the Australian golf championships in
Sydney, when many wiseacres wondered why
Parke Pope, refereeing one of the matches,
did not follow the usual procedure of taking
the flagstick from the hole when the players
were on the green. As a matter of fact this
is the job of the caddy employed by the man
having the right to play for the pot.
“Hovlake”: By all accounts the Austra-
lian Golf Union is considering ways and
means with a view to inviting a_ team of four
players from St. Andrews to visit Australia
next year to take part, among other fixtures,
in the Australian championships,'which are
to be held on the Roya-1 Adelaide links from
August 15 to 25. More than one attempt in
the same direction in the past has proved
abortive, the distance to be travelled being
the chief obstacle, but it is to be hoped that
this time the invitation will be accepted, for
such a visit would do the Australian game
any amount of good.
Car and Cycle
“Swan” : Driving a Chrysler car fitted with
Barnett Glass tyres, Arthur Colliver, the
Westralian speed motorist, had a field-day
on the cement-like bed of Lake Perkolili, win-
ning the 20-mile State championship, the
Miniature Grand Trix and the fastest time in
the W.A. Grand Prix. All these events were
won on the same set of tyres, which, in view
of the stress involved in racing, says a
lot for the high quality of the Australian
product.
* * * *
“Formula” : Something like a long-distance
reliability test has entered on its second
year in America. This is a non-stop run by
a Dodge car, the intention being to keep the
engines running on the roads and elsewhere
until the car goes to bits, like the Deacon's
wonderful one-hoss shay. The car completed
its first year’s running recently, entering
the gates of the plant which turned it out
with 104,900 miles on the speedometer, and
immediately setting out again for another
marathon run.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The motor-cycle world
has been looking forward to the meeting which
began on the Carriggrohane-road, near Cork,
this week. It was on this road that the Eng-
lish rider J. S. Wright put up the Avorld’s
motor-cycle record some months ago, when
he hoisted 150.7 m.p.h. A new machine
which he has had built for this meeting is
of 100 li.p. elaborately streamlined, on which
he has reached 170 m.p.h. in private trials.
The only Australian competing is A. Sim-
cock, who recently cut out 153 m.p.h. for a
one-way run in Hungary.
* # * *
“H'otham” : October 3 will see xiustralia’s
biggest road-cycling events, the Dunlop race
from Warrnambool to Melbourne (165 miles')
for professional riders, and the Colae-Mel-
bourne spin (100 miles) for the lily whites.
Started in 1895 the Warrnambool at once
took pride of place as Australia’s leading
race' and draws larger entries every year.
In the last 16 races there have been 3368
starters, and 865 of these have ridden the
distance in from 10 to 101 hours. The fastest,
time for the course is I. R. Munro’s Thr.
12min. Slsec. in 1924. Hubert Opperman,
now absent in France, who has won the event
three times, has second-best time, some three
minutes slower.
* =S=
“Rottnest”: Westralia is making a bold
bid in the Warrnambool-Melbourne push-bike
road-race; it generally does. Fred Jones, Dan
Dwyer, B. F. Mahoney and G. Hanna form
the official team. Of these, Jones is the
Opperman of Groperland, having scored _in
the Beverley-Perth road race, the big thing
of its kind on the sunset side, on three occa-
sions. A private backer is sending over J. R.
Moulsdale, winner of the 1930 Beverley-
Portli event, so nothing is being left to
chance.
Miscellaneous
“Pluon” : Bowlers all over Australia heard
with regret of the death in Launceston
of James Melross, one of the best-knovvn
figures in the game, at 71. Born in
Liverpool, he came to Australia in 1879 and
became a junior reporter on the Kyneton
“Observer,” in Victoria. After service on
various Victorian country papers he crossed
to Tasmania. Melross had been connected with
bowls for over 30 years, and was prominent
as an organiser and player in several of the
Launceston clubs, while in his later days he
was secretary of the Tasmanian Bowling
Association. He was also a Tasmanian
selector-, delegate for the Apple Isle to
the Australian Bowling Council, and presi-
dent from 1927 to 1929.
* * H= =!=
“Shell”: Guy Nickalls (B. 16/9/’3l) got
another setback when that “over-rated
sculler” Bobby Pearce again made the
opposition look cheap in the race for the
Philadelphia Gold Cup at Toronto. This is
the cup which was tacked on to the Olympic
sculling championship by an enthusiastic
Yank. The American champion, Ken Myers,
made no impression on the Australian, who
won easily by two lengths in smin. 46sec. for
the 1000 metres.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : That great Victorian athletic
combination St. Stephen’s Harriers, hoisted
a world’s record in Melbourne the other day
in a 24-hour relay race. Running in two-mile
relays, the team covered 262 miles in the
time, the first 200 being clocked off in 18hr.
13min. llsec. The fastest individual run was
9min. 39sec., by R. Gannuson, Fred Column,
the Australian 10,000-metre champion,
recording 9min. 59sec.


Perfect beauty
comes to your hair when the
rich, pure nourishment of Row-
land’s Macassar Oil gives it the
beauty of perfect health.
O f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hail,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
m
. FRUDlantfs
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.l,
ENGLAND.
J. H Si CO.
I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in tearoom
or cafe. Full board
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling
df
teams, spotting bodies, ete. Please write
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE MIKADO.
, (Commencing Saturday).
CRITERION: HAY FEVER
1. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
DEAREST ENEMY.
COMEDY THEATRE:
MY LADY’S DRESS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a ivoman needs to know,
Chemist Tells Recipe for
Family Cough Remedy.
HELP PEOPLE SAVE MONEY.
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading chemist,
that will enable people to make the best
family cough remedy, and at the same time
save much money. Everybody knows that a
good cough and influenza remedy consists of
two main sections:
The first section is the undiluted medicinal
ingredients ; and the second is, of course, the
necessary- water and sweetening. The prepara-
tion of the medicinal ingredients requires
trained knowledge, but the water and
sweetening can be added in the home just as
easily as in the pharmacy. And vou save a
lot of money by doing so. Now, prove these
facts by trying this HEENZO recipe: Into
a jug put four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three
of either treacle or honey, two of vinegar,
and a large breakfast-cupful of warm water.
Stir till dissolved, and when the syrup is
quite cold pour into a large bottle, and
then add a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
PIEENZO, obtained from your chemist or
store. By doing this you will have a family
supply equal in quantity and superior in
quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of
the best ready-mixed cough remedy that, if
purchased in the usual way, would cost up to
£l. An outstanding feature about HEENZO
is the fact that it is a safe remedy for
babies as well as adults, and over 12,000
people have written letters proclaiming it
the best remedy they have ever used for
quickly banishing coughs, colds, croup, bron-
chitis and influenza.*
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lift
On a September day when the sky was a
delphinium fit for the Blessed Damosel to
loop in her hair, this Letter mused among
the azaleas in the Gardens. A lot more of
Sydney was ruminating there at the same
hour. This Letter met John Pye, who had
come from Camden, and newly-returned
Howard Hinton, who had crossed from Cre-
morne, to view the masses of white and
rose, the stream of amethystine bloom spilled
out like some wine of Patmos, the delicate
pink, fluted and scrolled as might be some
magic c-oral cave. Up a path to the right
wistaria broke a wave of mauve on that
sea of color. There’s a wishing-tree in the
Gardens, but no one along that path was
seeking it. Rounded desire dimpled at your
feet. There was nothing left to wish for.
At Centennial Park they specialise in
bedded masses of color. The old English
marigold, greatly improved, has come into
favor for this purpose; and there are three
giants’ quilts of richest red and yellow
spread out upon the bed of green. There
are others, of course —poppies and pansies
and delphiniums; but it’s to the marigolds
the eye takes a final flying leap as you move
back citywards towards the grove of coral
tree. 1 .
It is Sydney’s turn to hold the conference
of the Australian Federation of Women
Voters, and all last week the Y.A.L. rooms in
George-street echoed with the ideas of dele-
gates from north and south, from Tasmania
and Westralia, and our home-brewed femin-
ists. The subjects ranged from proportional
representation to the Douglas Credit system.
By comparison with some, Mrs. Riscbbeith,
president of the group, made no great show
as a speaker; but her knowledge is great and
her enthusiasm unbounded. Brenda Mocatta
(a new voice in this argument) made her
points very crisply. Miss Simpson, who has
already had a run for Parliament, raised her
voice on woman’s place in the educational
world, Mrs. Miller spoke for S’Australia, and
Miss Preston Stanley’s cello-like notes
vibrated on the political status of women.
Mrs. Kenneth Street, who is ridden with the
idea of the economic independence of woman,
got into the limelight by declaring that a
married man with one child, earning £4 2s.
6d. a week, should give his wife 28s. a week
for her own use and no questions asked; and
Miss Preston Stanley on one dull afternoon
suddenly sparkled into a joke at her own
expense. “Why is attending a conference
like riding a rocking-horse?” she asked this
Letter; and when it couldn’t answer mut-
tered her own guess: “It’s all motion and
no progress!”
The conferrers were too busy for many
social amenities, but the Ludmayor lured
them to the Town Hall for a civic reception,
and the N.S.W. committee of the Federation
treated them to a very sober lunch at the
Pickwick Club, where they were welcomed by
Mrs. IT. F. Bennett, chairwoman of the
N.S.W. committee.
The small boy was at a matinee of “The
Pirates of Penzance.” He had sat silent while
the famous Major-General streaked through
his patter and had applauded the pirate
king in a somewhat bored fashion. But when
the" constabulary marched on with the grim
intention of defying the pirates, he sat up
and wriggled with excitement. “Mother,”
he said, “are they the New Guard?”
Annette Kellerman is still in Europe, with
the Woosters—her sister and her sister’s
husband —for company. There are the usual
mermaid shows, of course; but in these days
Annette finds the craze for physical culture
taking more and more of her attention. They
have been in France and Germany lately.
“Paris we were surprised to find very busy:
there’s a great building boom on, and the
Colonial Exhibition has been a huge success.
In Germany it is all different: they love to
tell you how poor they are. All the attention
and "more which they once gave to military
exercises they now give to physical culture.
It is an astonishing growth. Physical-cul-
ture clubs everywhere; and there’s a string
of wayside rest-houses all through the coun-
try whore you can get adequate accommoda-
tion. if you’re prepared to do most of the
work yourself. It’s cheap and generally
clean; and that suits the walking tourist,
of whom there are millions every week-end :
in Germany to-day you’d as soon think of
going without food as your daily walk.”
Annette was to open her Berlin season on
August 1.
Not one red head of Communism popped
up at the board of the Royal Empire
Society’s lunch. There was an air ot solid-
ity and security about the assembly that
might have soothed even a G.S.B. depositor
and made him feel that all’s well with the
world. George Fuller, the State’s former
Agent-General, and his lady were the prin-
cipal guests, and one couldn’t help noticing
how kindly time has dealt with the good-
looking pair. The lady, as usual, was one
of the best-dressed women in the room; she
wore flower-embossed crepe and a smart
turban in the same dahlia reds. Her hus-
band in his speech flung down the gauntlet,
as it were, to all disruptive forces in our
midst, and gloried in the fact that an Eng-
lishman’s endurance has added the Schneider
Cup to the Empire sideboard. He presented
a verbal posy to his wife, and knight Alfred
Meeks, another devoted and happy husband
after 58 years of double harness, beamed
approval.
George Earp was another speaker. His
wife’s hat was in the new black and white
straw. Hugh Denison’s lady was terribiy
correct ill cigar-brown tailoring. Mrs. Roy-
stone Davey was another of the smartly-
frocked, and Mrs. J. J. Rouse sported black
and white checks and a black and white
straw liat, and sat with her father, W. <l.
Layton. Another of the pointed-out. was
Mrs. David Cohen, daughter of the Governor-
General.
Here’s a nice problem from Frank Crane,
of the Town Hall. The decorations for the
Ludmayor’s reception on Monday to the
Governor and Lady Game are to be left up
for the Bush Nursing Ball on Wednesday.
Now, the decorations are yellow, and on the
Tuesday night the hall, is booked, for the
drawing of the Hibernian Art Union. To
Mr. Crane’s lot falls the task of making all
things work together for good. The problem,
with others, was discussed on Friday, when
the Mayoress served tea and jam-tarts to a
group of women interested in the ball, which
is to raise funds to keep open the centres
still going, and reopen some that have had
to close down during the lean times.
Howard Hinton, the National Gallery’s
persistent patron, is back in his home town
after three and a half years’ travelling in
Europe. He traversed miles of galleries to
pay respects to old friends and introduce
himself to new. H'e drifted into unusual
corners, and tells of Spanish towns and bits
of mediaeval Germany that sound like a
setting for a Hans Andersen fairy-tale. The
Gallery is eight oil paintings the richer for
his travels.
With simple directness Conor Macleod has
evoked for Australia the picture of a con-
tented man. From the pages of her just-
published monograph, “Macleod of The
B U L L F.TIN,”
the paper’s
old chief and
one of Austra-
lia’s first car-
toonists sends
his famous
smile the
smile of a
man who has
known .sorrow
and joy, and
from the two
has gleaned
happiness. In
this too-slim,
beau tifully-
printed book,
with its repro-
ductions of
some of Mr.
Macleod’s best
canvases, is a
picture of the
life at Dunve-
gan, the grey stone house at Mosman where
during its late owner’s lifetime possibly
every known and many an unknown follower
of the arts was entertained. The book’s
author, before her marriage Conor O’Brien,
the brilliant writer of this Letter, has never
done anything quite so good as the clear,
limpid story of a home life set about with
“cheerfulness and grace and peace within
the border.” Conor Macleod was the com-
plement to her beloved husband. Through
the years she was the perfect hostess to the
most popular host in Sydney’s literary and
artistic world, and her friends rejoice that
Dunvegan, the house of memory, is still to
remain her home.
Ella Caspers, down in Sydney for a holi-
day, is to sing at a concert in the Conserva-
torium to-night. Her magnolia-like contralto,
with its truly spiritual note, is on the pro-
gramme for “Abide With Me.” If she
gives “There is a Green Hill” for one of her
encores, then her audience will be among
the blessed.
Dr. Dan Kelly, just back from a trip to
Papua, is full of his experiences. Among
other things he did up north was to stand
best-man to planter Hugh Fraser when that
young man was marrying Lorna Pennefatlier,
of Sydney. Lorna travelled up in the Mata-
ram the same trip as the doctor, and that’s
how he found himself, together with all else
concerned, being rowed in a whaler by native
police to the Presbyterian Mission at
Delenna, where the knot was tied. All the
passengers, bride included, had to be carried
through the surf. Then Lorna changed into
her bridal raiment at the mission station, and,
just as she was about to walk up the aisle
on the Resident Magistrate’s arm, the padre’s
wife slipped on the gramophone record,
“Here Comes the Bride!” Afterwards there
was good old Mendelssohn through the, same
medium. The breakfast was in the mis-
sioner’s home, and here the pop of the first
champagne-cork (the fizz had gone up by
the Mataram, too) nearly caused disaster,
for the natives who were serving at table
shot out through the door and started for the
bush. Upon being reassured they crept back to
their duties, but kept a wary eye on the bottles.
Mrs. E. Waterworth, one of Hobart’s lead-
ing feminists, was conspicuous at the confer-
ence of women voters in Sydney. She is
just back from
two years'
travel in
Europe and
America, dur-
in g whi c. h
time she visit-
ed the Mar-
garet McMil-
lan School for
children in
London an d
the Forest
School outside
Berlin. At the
latter the
children are
taught in the
midst of tow-
ering trees;
the rooms in
which they
have their
classes have
sliding walls,
and the. open-air schooldays work marvels
with under-nourished and delicate children.
Mrs. Waterworth, a worker for women and
children for, over 20 years, is president of the
Tasmanian Women’s Non-party League and
chairwoman of the islet’s Pan-Pacific com-
mittee. Before her marriage she was a
teacher in Brisbane.
The golf-crazed girls of N. S. Wales were
tremendously bucked when a local team
snatched a victory from the Melbourne asso-
ciates last week after the championship
games, but they weren’t really deceived. The
enemy wasn’t trying to any serious extent.
We have no females here in the same class
as Susie Tolhurst and Mona McLeod, and
there is a gloomy impression that we never
shall. All kinds of theories are being advanced
in locker-rooms and over teas on club-house
verandahs to account for the straight, raking
drives and deadly iron shots of the southrons.
It is agreed, as a rule, that the Victorian
climate is to blame. It rains more in Vic-
toria, which means that the ball has less run,
which means that it has to do more air-travel.
The drives of the visiting champions went
colossal distances before they touched earth,
and most of their approaches fell as dead as
apple-dumplings. Anyhow, no one minds,
since the invaders have certainly given the
game a great boost in feminine circles.
Probably some humorist named the Spring-
Flower Cabaret, whose special feature was
a cake-baking competition ; the flowers that
bloom in the spring, tra-la, had little to do
with the case. The party and display of
cakes in the Wentworth were the final round
of weekly competitions, held in suburban
Town Halls since May, and organiser Norah
Frost proudly proclaimed £7O in hand for
the benefit of the Institution for deaf and
dumb and blind children at Darlington. Ben
Fuller’s lady was president of the committee,
and Miss E. Cooper (East Sydney Tech.)
judged the golden sponges.
Apropos of the golden sponge, eleven cake-
shops were born in a northern suburb in
recent months; and most of them seem to be
prospering. “You see,” it is explained,
“madame, who used to make her own cakes,
can’t do it any longer, having been obliged
to let her maid go. And madame’s sister has
her little parties at home now, instead of
beckoning her friends to some city haunt.”
The last lesson in powdering her face
this Letter had was from artist Tom
Roberts, who died last week in Melbourne.
He had looked in and found her scrambling
some powder over her countenance. “Tut, tut,”
he said, “I’m surprised at you! That’s not
the way to do it at all.” And coming into
the room he placed the woman who was
wrong with her back to the window, and the
hand-mirror so held that the light fell full
on the reflected face. “Now go ahead,” he
said. Tom Roberts was gentle and full of
fun, and never thought it worth while to
impress on his listener the importance of
being an artist. His Sydney friends feel
the poorer for his passing.
The first of the new Matson liners is to
be called the Mariposa, and is to look in
on Sydney towards the end of February.
She takes the place of the Ventura that
trip. But she doesn’t make a quick dash
back for Los Angeles and San Francisco;
she is to go by way of Java, the Philippines,
China and Japan—if China and Japan
haven’t eaten each other’s head right off by
that time.
OVERHEARD.
“See that boy—he’s one of the landed gentry.”
“Station?’’
“No. Ethel’s just nailed him.”
Brisbane’s doings :
A benefit for Lady Goodwin’s Social Service sewing
circle was held at Blair Lodge, Hamilton, the home
of the R. Petersons. Lady Goodwin, in powder-
blue satin, was present, Mrs. N. A. H. Campbell
coming with her. Red roses and wild-flowers,
arranged by Mrs. L. C. Potier, were presented to
her Ex. by little Pamela Peterson. Mrs. A. E.
Moore, in petal-pink mariette and lace stitched with
silver; Mrs. J. P. Peterson, in black mariette, and
Mrs. R. Peterson, in black lace, relieved by a string
of pearls, received the guests. Many of the flowers
that decked the house were brought from Mount
Tambourine by Mrs. A. T. Bayne.
Vincent Sheldon gave a party at Avalon, Clav-
field, to enable Brisbane artists to meet John Long-
staff. Purple stocks, roses and gumtips adorned
the lounge. Jeanette Sheldon was in leaf-green satin.
Gwendolyn Grant, the Bustards, Daphne Mayo and
the Stanhope Hobdays were amongst the guests.
At Ascot races Sir John Goodwin and Col. Camp-
bell had luncheon with the committee and Lady
Goodwin came out afterwards with Mrs. Campbell.
The high winds made many don fur coats. Lady
Goodwin was in black and white with a semi-bowler
black hat and white furs. Mrs. Campbell’s black cloth
was worn with a black bowler. Chief Justice Blair's
lady was in plum-colored satin with baku hat. Lady
Beatrice Moreton chose black and white. Mrs. E.
M. Brissenden (Sydney'), sported black cloth, and
Mrs. Canning Downs Barnes was in navy.
In the Repertory Society’s performance of “You
Never Can Tell” at His Majesty’s, Babette Fergusson,
as Gloria, wore some very charming gowns and
Gwen Campbell played the mother who writes on
twentieth-century marriage. The piece was well
staged, and Rhoda Felgate produced with her cus-
tomary skill.
For the benevolent fund of the A.J.A. a ball
was held in the Carlton Cabaret. A newspaper arch
framed the entrance and humorous drawings by lan
Gall, Eric Hannam, lan Dickson, E. S. Watson, W.
Bustard and Horace Berry decked the walls. A
murder scene was enacted in the ballroom. Maida
Jones being the woman in the case, John Dobbie the
jealous lover, and H. Vaughan the murdered man.
Mrs. W. Young, president of the Queensland Press
Association, wore fine black lace with a trail of red
roses and pansies on one shoulder.
For Hermione Lewis, who is marrying C. Noyes,
Doris Gregory hostessed a party at the Canberra,
wearing parchment chiffon with a tulip design. Miss
Lewis was in blue marocain with touches of pink
and an ivory straw picture hat.
W. H. Chandler, son of the W. J. Chandlers, of
Warwick, was married to Eileen, daughter of the
late John and Mrs.- Reid, Clayfield, in All Saints’.
The bride was in cedar-brown marocain and brown
hat. Dulcie Reid ’maided in blue marocain and
white hat. Mary Ross and Jean Ross Chandler
and Jack Chapman, the bride’s nephew, were in
attendance.
A September wedding was that of Donald, son
of the late William McDougalls, Toowoomba, and
Elfrida, daughter of the A. D. Walshes, Vailima,
Hamilton, in St. John’s Cathedral. Ivory ring
velvets decked the bride. Mrs. Willie Persse lent
the Limerick-lace train, and the Limerick-lace veil
had been worn by six generations of brides in the
Walsh family. Lilian and Janice Walsh ’maided in
parchment chiffon, patterned in crimson roses, with
parchment fancy straw hats.
A corner for the Speck:—
The Royal Autocar Club held its ball at the Masonic
Hall. President Weller Arnold and his better-half
received the guests. Bridge kept the non-dancers
occupied.
The Albert Hall, Launceston, was well filled for
the naval and military ball. Marcia Robson and T.
McCredie were joint secs. Official guests had a
supper-table decked with Iceland poppies, violets and
primroses. Major P. C. Thompson and Mrs. Thomp-
son received the guests, Mrs. Thompson wearing
ciel-blue satin, slender as to bodice and very fully
flared in the skirt, with a hint of panniers at
the hips.
News comes from South Africa of the wedding of
Lorna Grove (who went there some time ago to stay
with her sister, Mrs. Trevor Chase) to Gerard Frater,
of Paal.
Mrs. Arthur Stourton is back from England after
six months’ absence. She made her bob to the King
and Queen when in London. The Victoria League
welcomed her at the Town Hall on her return.
Mary Corvan, who is studying music in London,
writes that she met Isobel Carter, niece of Mrs. Tom
Murdoch, of Hobart, who played very well at a students’
concert at the R.C.M. Miss Corvan also met Eileen
Joyce, the W.A. girl who won golden opinions from
Percy Grainger on his last visit.
Dark-eyed Alison, daughter of the F. W. Darlings,
of Hobart, and Cyril Dickson, of Armadale (Vic.),
announce their engagement.


•N°9ol
A FULL FITTING
Full Fashioned Stocking
DESIGNED TO REALLY FIT
THE FULL SHAPED LEG
Fully Fashioned stockings have hitherto been creat-
ed to the standard of the medium and slender leg
and it has been left to the Research Department of
Prestige Limited to create, after considerable ex-
periment, a perfect Full Fitting stocking. So impor-
tant do Hosiery experts regard the improvements in
this stocking, that Prestige Limited has patented them
in the principal countries of the world. As a
result, Prestige Limited are the only manufacturers
of Full Fashioned Hosiery who can offer a
satisfactory Full-Fitting style. . . Per pair
12/11
*111111
'
fi
.AI
; M
smsmsm
ilflflK
(A)
(B)
The ordinary full-fashioned stocking (see ill us. A) is
not really suitable for wear on a full-shaped leg. In
such cases, there is always a tendency for the hose
to tighten around the lower calf and to show an ugly
distortion of the fashion marks. The stocking is also
difficult to hold in position, the tendency being to
work down and wrinkle at the ankle.
In the New Prestige patented Fashioned Leg (see illus.
B) these disadvantages have been overcome by com-
mencing the fashioning process immediately above
the heel splicing, The fashionings are not visible,
however, until the normal position for fashion marks is
reached. Thus the Prestige patent Leg allows more
room in the lower part of the leg. This new stock-
ing has a perfectly normal appearance, giving a
distinct impression of slimness to the ankle and as-
suring CORRECT fit and comfort without any distor-
tion to the fabric.
The illustrations below show at a glance the
marked superiority of the new Prestige Patent
Heel (illus. B) over the heel of the ordinary
Full-Fashioned Hosiery (illus. A).
Every woman has experienced the discomfort
of that little pointed tab of loose material on
ordinary heels—-which remains ill-fitting no
matter'how the stocking is pulled or coaxed.
Even the most expensive stockings have this
disadvantage. Now, in the new patent heel,
Prestige has designed a stocking which fits
instantly and snugly to the curve of the heel
without a trace of pucker or wrinkle. Here,
for the first time, is perfect comfort and perfect
heel-fitting in fully-fashioned Hosiery. The
Prestige patent Heel is another Prestige inno-
vation which fastidious women will be quick to
appreciate
MAKERS OF
FINE HOSIERY


The Soap That’s
Known and Sold
the World Around
ticur^
For regular
daily toilet
use in the
home there
is nothing
better than
Cuticura Soap
Containing the medicinal
and antiseptic properties of
Cuticura, it soothes and
heals as well as cleanses
the skin.
§*£®»
PURITY
Soap Is.
Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address:
R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S.W.
ALL’S WELL IN W.A.
THE STATE SAVINGS BANK
IS JUST AS SOLID AS EVER.
At June 30
the Bank had to its credit
£8,078,970
of which £6,602,000 is invested in
Commonwealth Bonds.
ACCOUNTS OPEN TOTAL
212,928
IN THE STATE BANK.
THE STATE IS SOLVENT
AND OFFERS A
SPLENDID MARKET.
to enterprising merchants.
Expansion of business is yours by
advertising your goods in the
PERTH
The weekly with the circulation of a
daily in Western Australia.
MacDonald and Gandhi Agree
Read “The Barrier Miner” leader, of last
Friday. Read also “The Bishop’s Enthrone-
ment” in Saturday’s issue. This great news-
paper of the Far West takes the place of the
coastal city dailies, which are neither needed
nor read there to any degree worth mentioning.
“The Barrier Miner,” published daily at Broken
Hill, is read by practically everyone in Broken
Hill and the pastoral areas behind the city.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO RADIATORS OR COOLERS.
’’’THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 15,656/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets.
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
MURPHY, JAMES PATRICK.—Wanted
the above or his children or other
descendants. He was born in 1835 and was
the son of James Patrick Murphy the
younger, of Stratford, Essex, England, Tur-
pentine Manufacturer, by Elizabeth (nee
Sherrott). Communicate with WITHALLS,
18 Bedford Row, London, England, Solicitors.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland's
Entire Population.
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
t Brisbane (Courier*
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68 °/o .
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
* * *
Fou can get more of these interest -
in# facts regarding the Queensland
Marie et, from :
QTfte Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3906.
London Agents’ H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabellran
Ten Rooms
[?]
The first day of the Show was sunny,
Peach and other trees bloomed pink and
white about the grounds, and there were
splashes of golden wattle, while beds of
anemones and ranunculi figured in the
garden plots around the pavilions and other
buildings. Beneath its face of growing pan-
sies and daisies, the floral clock softly
chimed as the hands passed over the flowered
dial. The parade of cattle in the ring had
one interesting feature. It exploded the
fallacy that a red rag annoys a bull. A
maiden who sported a vivid red coat strolled
fearlessly among the beasties in the ring.
Not one blinked an eyelid or shook its nose-
ring at the supposed-to-be aggravating hue.
The kine known as Friesians looked very
smart and fashionable in tlieir ensembles of
black and white. The Jerseys, specialising in
fawn and beige shades, looked quite dowdy
beside the Friesians. The Herefords, who
sported reddish splotches on their white coats,
had a nice all-over kink in their coats. The
pigs looked as if they had been nicely laun-
dered. Intriguing were those of chestnut
shade. They have plenty of pace, as was
demonstrated by a frisky member of the
tribe who galloped down the straight in front
of his erstwhile sty like a porcine Phar Lap.
Always a strong feature of the powerful
Show, the pavilion that houses women’s
industries contains this year much that is
well worth seeing. Judges in all sections
are agreed that the standard of the exhibits,
which cover all the arts of the housewife, is
very high indeed. Many new names are to
be found among the prize-winners. Mrs. A.
A. Campbell shows a teacloth entirely of
crochet with a Japanese pattern that in-
cludes groupings of the “three little maids
from school,” of “The Mikado,” and a border
in iris design. A first prize was won by a
fuji silk tennis shirt made by Mrs. L. E.
Devlin. Another first award fell to a sky-
blue crepe-de-Chine nightie, eyelet-embroid-
ered with a touch of pink. Close to this in
excellence was a trio of undies of white crepe
de chine with embellishments of drawn
thread and wee flowered scrolls in pink and
blue. One exhibitor trimmed her pink
silken garments with the most exquisite point-
lace stitches in tones to match. Elsie
and May CroWther are represented by babies’
coats and frocks that set a new standard for
knitters.
Other exhibits in the women’s section are
feminine portraits worked in silks in heavy
gold frames. A cushion bears a recumbent
tiger worked in wool, and another tiger less
benevolent in appearance appears on a sort of
tapestry. Patience and ingenuity have been
used producing a bouquet of flowers and
ferns worked in beads. A charming bit of
work is a blanket of deep biscuit hue for a
baby’s cot. In the centre, in applique, is
a Noah’s Ark, and all the menagerie is
dotted round.
One of the notable features of the Show
is the two-headed bull, whose birth in the
Nutta valley was chronicled nine months ago
with so much fuss. There is no class for
two-headed bulls in the competitions, so the
animal is only to be seen in a sideshow,
where it browses happily with one of its
heads while the other gazes in a friendly
manner at a five-legged sheep adjacent. Both
are owned by Mr. Briggs. The bull has
two pairs of eyes and horns, two brains,
and two tongues, and the left head is male
while the right head is female. If the thing
were human there would probably be the
devil to pay ; as it is, the animal gets on with
itself splendidly.
An interested spectator at the Show was
a dusky gentleman named Tomate, from
South Africa, who is here as an adjunct to
the “Trader Horn” talkie, in which he
appeared. He wears a striped rug slung
over the left shoulder of his dark grey over-
coat ; polished brown feet arc in sandals,
and a bright blue .satin cap with a tiny
tassel sits upon his head.
Robbed at the eleventh hour of its stage
manager, H. Schwieger, through illness, the
Diamond Jubilee Bail of the 11.A.5. suffered
somewhat. Another factor making for a
rather poor attendance was the high price of
tickets. Profits were earmarked for the
C. and some of the younger members
of the association, under the direction of
Mrs. L. Due, sold buttonholes and shoulder
sprays. The platform of the Town Hall
sported a trio of arches of wheat-ears and
scarlet poppies with trees of crimson cherry
blossom between. Lt.-Governor Irvine
was there, accompanied by his daughter Mrs.
J. Morrison, in black georgette, and her
husband, and by Major and Mrs. H. A. E.
Wilkinson. The Luxtons had a place on
the v.-r. dais, the Mayoress wearing black
chiffon velvet. Colonel C. E. Merrett, pre-
sident of the It.A.S.; R. O. Blackwood, vice-
president, and secretary Monod were on
hand; Mrs. Monod’s cornflower-blue lace
draperies were topped by a matching
velvet coat with ermine collar. Edward
Mitchell escorted his lady, the presi-
dent of the C.W.A., who looked well
in georgette draperies and flounces of del-
phinium blue. The deputy-president, Mrs.
W. E. Sargood, of Corowa, chose black and
white and a splash of crystal. Mrs. Oswald
Syme and Mrs. S. V. Sewell were other
representatives of the association, and among
those who danced were Senator Guthrie and
his wife, she in seagull-grey chiffon ; Mrs. Sam
McKay, in begonia-pink lace; the Alec
Hunters, Captain R. T. A. McDonald and
Mr. and Mrs. 11. T. McKean.
Some very effective frocks were sported by
the younger set, white satin in conjunction
with short coats of black velvet being in
favor White organdie embroidered in yel-
low daisies in wool was worn by Neenoo
Due, and Miss Barlow’s amber-tinted muslin
gown was scattered with sprays of rosy blos-
soms. Sylvia Lawrance was in white tulle
and satin,_ and Jocelyn Outh waite in
crepe romaine of water-lily green tint. Mrs.
Byram Gowan, jun., wore black, and Mrs.
Richard Lawrance chose figured chiffon in
shades of green.
Beverley, only daughter of the Leonard
Lansells, of Moulamein (N.S.W.), was the
central figure of a coming-out party at
Menzies’. The hop, which had a pink and
white floral setting, was preceded by a small
dinner, and about 70 young people partici-
pated in the dancing. Among the older
guests were Mrs. Orme, the deb.’s grand-
mother. and John Quick and his lady. Mrs.
Lansell’s black chiffon and satin gown had
a sparkle of diamonds and diamente. Miss
Beverley wore white material of suede finish
known as “Angels’ food,” cut on classic
lines. A wreath of gardenias and a posy set
in a silver lace border were accessories.
Among the guests were Deidre Grantham,
in honey-colored lace; Janet Landale, in
white lace and Audrey Poolman, in rose-scat-
tered blue taffeta.
W, R. Sedon put on a dance at his home
on Saturday to introduce his nephews, L. C.
Thompson, of Sydney, and D. Helsham, of
Perth, to his friends. Guests circled in the
big ballroom, which is quite a picture gal-
lery. Masses of pink and white peach- and
cherry-blossom filled the huge fireplace, and
cinerarias and cyclamens made gay the
reception-rooms. An interlude was provided
by Alaric Howitt, who played some of his
latest compositions.
A gymkhana at Moonee Valley racecourse,
arranged by the V.A.T.C. the M.V.R.C. and
the four hunt clubs, assisted the candidature
of Ben Chaffey in the Alfred Hospital’s king
competition. The attendance was poor, the
day being bitterly cold and the sun a will-
o’-the-wisp. The prizes—gold cups, silver-
ware and crystal, presented by the clubs and
business folk—made a fine show spread out
beneath an awning in front of the grand-
stand. There were a point-to-point steeple-
chase for hunt-club members, and some
jumping events. Amateur riders and
professional jockeys gave exhibitions of
bareback riding over hurdles. The Oak-
lands Hunt Club staged a hunt as a finish,
with a pack of hounds in pursuit of a highly-
perfumed drag, and the whole field, with
many pink coats, careering over all the
hurdles on the course. Among the onlookers
were Mr. and Mrs. Ben Chaffey, the Robert
Knoxes, Mr. and Mrs. Merson Cooper, Mrs.
Collier, Colonel and Mrs. Eller, Mrs. W.
Rogers Thomson, Mrs. R. G. Casey and Mrs.
Clivo Leonard.
Cards were played at the Green Door tea-
rooms to help St. Vincent de Paul’s and St.
Augustine’s orphanages, the party being
organised by Mrs. James Dwyer and Mrs.
D. P. Mackey. Among the players were
Premier Hogan’s wife, Mrs. W. J. McGrath,
Mrs. Merson Cooper, Mrs. Warwick Arm-
strong, Mrs. T. Hoban, Mrs. W. J. Wcarne
and Eileen Castles.
Bridge was played at Myer’s tea-room to
help the orphanages of St. Augustine and
St. Vincent de Paul. Mrs. T. M. Burke was
president of the organising committee, Mrs.
J. P. Casey hon sec., and Mrs. J. C. West-
lioven hon. trea.s. Beside cards there was
singing by Eileen Castles, Mrs. C. N. Finn,
Vera Carew, James Foran, John D. Sulli-
van and Ambrose McMahon, with Alice
Madigan as accompanist.
Collectors for charity on Wattle Day had
a sunny day for it. Seven hundred of them
were on the job, selling badges, flowers,
cakes, sweets and jams.' Wonderful blossoms
and berries came from Macedon and Toorak
gardens. There wasn’t a great deal of wattle
to be seen, the trees having bloomed earlier
than usual this year.
At St. Andrew’s kirk, Hamilton, Andrew,
third son of Robert Garran and his lady,
was linked to Jean, only daughter of the
R. A. Frasers, of the Western District. Two
’maids wearing pale-green chiffon attended
the bride, over whose ivory satin draperies
cascaded white tulle.
Musical Melbourne rolled up in force to
the sonata recital given by violinist Gertrude
Ilealy and pianist Elsie Fraser at the
Assembly Hall. The programme included
the new sonata (No. 3) of Frederick Delius,
the Opus S 2 of Edward Elgar, the B flat
major sonata of Mozart and that in G minor
by Henri Eccles. Miss Healy’s princess robe
of silvery white satin was guiltless of trim-
ming and was quite alluring. The pianist
furnished a contrast in black lace with
touches of turquoise blue.
Wearing a black chiffon velvet gown that
melted into a deep flounce and long train.
Madame Zorina, a Russian soprano, made
her first bow here at the Uni. Symphony
Orchestra’s concert. The lady cheered her
sable draperies with a rope of pearls that
wandered to her knees, and a necklet of
diamonds, and she gathered in some tall
baskets of peach blossom and daffodils and
numerous posies. Conductor Bernard
Heinze bowed his thanks for a laurel wreath
at the close of a performance of Dvorak’s
“New World” symphony.
Out of this
window looks
Jean Lewis,
who came here
from Kalgoor-
lie on Dame
Melba’s advice
to get train-
ing for a rich
contralto
voice. Mary
Campbell, of
the Albert-
street Con.,
has had the
singer in hand.
Peter Dawson
heard the
voice the other
day and said
tilings about
a future. To-
night, in asso-
ciation with
violinist Rene
Bregozzo, the singer is giving a recital at the
Assembly Hall.
The 3B students of the Melbourne O. of
E. Girls’ Grammar School who spent their
vacation on a trip to the Great Barrier Reef
have returned thoroughly pleased with their
experiences. The occasion was improved
by the geography mistress, Miss Cousins, and
the instructor in botany, Miss Naylor, who
accompanied the pupils.
Miss K. Peace, of the Victoria League,
and Janet Mitchell, daughter of the Mit-
chell lady, ai’e passengers by the Changte for
China, having been appointed delegates to
a conference in connection with the Insti-
tute of Pacific Relations.
Mrs. Boyce, wife of H. Leslie Boyce, the
Australian-born M.P. for Gloucester is on a
visit to her father, E. P. Bevan, at Cliveden
Mansions. A few weeks ago Mr. Bevan was
very seriously ill, but has now recovered.
Mrs. Boyce’s two-year-old son Richard, who
had the honor of being christened in West-
minster Hall by permission of the King, is
making the acquaintance of his grandfather
and other Australian relatives.
We have been having daily mannequin
parades of Berlei corsets, illustrating how
the five types into which the female form
divine has been graded by the gifted designers
can be made to look like the same type—or,
at least, to carry the same style of clothes.
The show was well staged and has been well
patronised.
Adelaide’s spring-time gaieties;—
At the race meeting at Cheltenham the weather
reverted to midwinter. Mrs. A. V. Benson, wearing
a black cloth coat with collar and cuffs of Persian
lamb', and a small black felt hat, assisted Dr.
Benson (chairman) in entertaining guests at after-
noon tea. Spring toilettes were only to be seen in
the shop windows.
Brigadier and Mrs. W. E. Hutchinson Cass held an
at-home at their residence, North Adelaide, to say
farewell to about 60 friends prior to their departure
for Melbourne. The rooms were fragrant with flowers
from their garden, the daffodils being very fine. Mrs.
Cass looked graceful in a Princess robe of black
cloth with collar and cuffs of black musquash and
a smart black felt hat. She wore an orchid on her
lapel. Next day Brigadier and Mrs. Cass were
farewelled by Mayoress Glover in her reception-room
at the Town Hall, decked with pink and white
double peach blossom. Mrs. Glover wore black em-
bossed chiffon with a touch- of flesh pink at the
neckline, and her wide-brimmed baku-straw hat had
a black and white camellia at the back. A spring
frock of pastel-striped taffeta was worn by Mrs.
Cass under an Oriental patterned silk coat and a
large brown baku-straw hat.
The Show experienced the usual variety in
weather; Saturday and Monday wet, Tuesday un-
certain and Thursday and Friday sunny enough
for light frocks. Attendance beat all records.
On the second day Lancelot Stirling and his lady
entertained the wives of show officials and other
guests. The- Stirling lady’s Li doblue marocain
ensemble was worn with a velour hat to match.
Lady Hore-Ruthven, gowned in a deep hyacinth-blue
with toque en suite, Mrs. Lionel Hill and Mayoress
Glover were there.
St. John’s Church celebrated its 92nd birthday
with a dance in the Freemasons’ Hall. Mayor and
Mayoress Glover, who had been married at St. John’s,
attended.
The Uni. Women’s Union had an evening party in
the Refectory, where peach blossom figured in the
decorations. Mrs. L. M. Allen (vice-president) re-
ceived the guests, gowned in autumnal-tinted georg-
ette. Nearly all the profs, and their wives were
on hand.
The Shell Ball at the Palais Royal in aid of
charities attracted well over 1000 dancers. Mr.
and Mrs. H. M. Day had the Premier and his wife
and the Lud Mayor and Mayoress in their box.
Journalist Lilias Gordon, resident for some years
in Adelaide but with an all-Australian reputation
as “Suzanne,” has had a Supreme Court action
waged round her witty pen. Under contract to
write for some years for one weekly paper, she was
“approached” by another, and a solemn injunction
has been obtained against her straying into the
fresh field.
A few lines from Westralia :—•
Rosy-red and amber lights twinkled a welcome
among the gum-trees of Mt. Yokine for the golf
club’s dance. Loads of flowers bloomed in the club-
house, and the supper-room (the men’s locker-room
in everyday life) was decked with ferns, blossoms and
streamers. President C. Kendall and his wife
received the guests, she in water-green chiffons.
Mrs. Walter Hardy protected her blue moire from the
draught with a ’broidered jacket; Dr. D. S. Mc-
Kenzie’s blonde wife danced in mignonette-greens;
Elizabeth Edwards illustrated fashion’s newest whim
with her black velvet coatee over shell-pink organdie;
Ina Randell wore fuchsia tonings; Mrs. Peter Felton
was in blue; - flowered chiffons swirled to Bonnie
Spencer’s ankles; Gwen. Barry wore white; beauti-
fully cut pink satins were swathed about Mrs. Ben
Prevost; Mrs. Eckersley, of the Cold Land, chose
the same shade and material; Mrs. Barker’s georg-
ettes ran to amber shades; Mrs. Rutter’s ivory
satins were sprigged with jade; apple-green fishnet
was Mrs. Rupert Solomon’s choice; black lace inser-
tions appeared in Jean Shaw’s garment; Phyllis
Thiel was in rosebud-pink and Dulcie Duncan danced
in fur-trimmed white chiffons.
At the Science Society’s conversazione, a buffet
supper wound up an evening of electrical displays,
exhibits culled from the animal and vegetable king-
doms, lecturettes and prize-giving. Prof, and Mrs.
Ross, the de Courcy Clarkes, medicoes Gray and
Breidahl with their better halves, Alison Baird,
Raina Rotenburg, Grace Drummond and Dr. Moir
were there.
Prof. Nowotny’s orchestra played in aid of the
Children’s Hospital, the 60 musicians and their
instruments crowding the big stage of His Majesty’s.
The Misses E. Corser, Trobe, Middleton and N.
Osborne were instrumental soloists, and vocal numbers
were contributed by Flora Nowotny. The young singer
has a fine soprano and tackled Violetta’s Aria from
“Traviata” with confidence and skill.


BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustvalta
AT 30th JUNE, 1931
LIABILITIES.
67,539,203 6 5
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits per
Contra 492,156 14 7
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. .. 68,031,360 1 0
Note Issue Department .. .. 50,706,231 16 1
£118,737,591 17 1
£ s d
816,302 14 11
0
4
2
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances
Australian Notes 4,177,177 0
Money at Short Call in London 8,107,433 6
Short Term Loans in Australia.. 17,384,036 2
Investments —
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities (face value
£3,124,500) 3,122,776 5 3
Commonwealth Government
Securities (face value
£15,567,070) 15,565,028 17 0
Fixed Deposits of other Banks 100,000 0 0
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit .. .. 3,034,251 6 4
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers and
other sums due to the Bank. .14,600,954 5 7
Bank Premises 631,243 8 10
67,539,203 6 5
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra .. 492,156 14 7
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments 68,031,360 1 0
Note Issue Department 50,706,231 16 . 1
£118,737,591 17 1
Dr.
_£ s d
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund 175,869 9 10
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 175,869 9 10
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund .. 28.051 13 5
„ Development Fund 28,081 13 5
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury . . 219,664 10 5
»> Rural Credits Department
Capital Account 73,221 10 1
PROFIT AND LOSS
Cr.
£700,788 7 0
£ s d
By Profits for Half-year ended
30th June, 1931-
Banking Business 351,738 19 8
Rural Credits Department .. 56,163 6 10
Note Issue Department .. .. 292,886 0 6
£700,788 7 0
Note Issue Department
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth as to the correctness of the
above accounts have been given.
SAN FRANCISCO
Let your ticket to ENGLAND
< < < read "via AMERICA"
TUST one ticket to buy before you
" leave Australia ... every detail ar-
ranged in advance ...make your next
voyage to England via Matson Liner
to America.
■
From the first port of ca 11... Auckland...
with other daylight stops at Suva, Pago
Pago and Honolulu... through to San
Francisco, it is a swift happy voyage
on a cool, comfortable liner.
■
From San Francisco, your ticket speeds
you in four days to New York and your
liner to England, or it entitles you to
travel more leisurely and visit interest-
ing American cities and scenic spots
en route.
■
England via America offers endless in-
terest at most modest rates. Ask for free
illustrated booklet. See for yourself
how enjoyable and reasonable this
route to England should prove.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street . Sydney
Tel. B 7981-3
Just a bit of the
Charming Southern
California Shore
N ,
M9-2A
FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on The Bulletin’s Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
V - 'it t ■ " . t
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about
book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are
kept. Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible
language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis
and keep it there. In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be dealt
with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means
of everybody. It will be sent from any Bulletin Office for sixpence, to
which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just
as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy
idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE


FI JI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £35.
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 15th October
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 12th November
Christmas Excursion.
Lovely Rarotonga. Another 23 days’ tour
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI” from Sydney, 24th December, 1931.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £45; SECOND CLASS RETURN. £34
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8393.
ONE PYROX PLUG
A'
cun
E
/|\ A'
TWO
Pyrox plugs gave speed
/IN
THREE
Pyrox plugs meant more
miles per gallon
/l\
/|N
FOUR
Pyrox plugs made the
engine run sweet,sweet
sweetall the way home
'M
gOfCH
Sold by all Garages
Made by
PYROX Pty. Ltd., MELBOURNE
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty. Ltd.)
AS WE SAID BEFORE-
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in * The Bulletin of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
llespect old age, for it may remember you
in its will.
This is a strange" true story supplied by
a reliable authority lately from the North-
ern Territory. Our informant says: “We
were making for the ruby mines, myself, and
my mate. We had not had much experience
of the country, and what we had seen we
did not appreciate; hut we were prepared
to see it out, till one day at sundown, when
we were two days south, we struck a party
who were bound on the same errand. They
were camped in damp, scrubby country, and
had been there nearly a week awaiting the
recovery of one of the party who was down
THE REASON WHY.
FRIEND (to party in undignified position): “Hullo, Mr. A.! Why don’t you get up?"
MR. A.: “What’s the ushe getting up to tumble down againsh?” [Phil May.— 23/7/'87.)
with a slight illness. We camped with the
crowd, and at about ten o clock the same
night, as we were sitting in their tent play-
ing euchre and talking of our prospects, we
were suddenly alarmed by the swish ot a
spear through the roof. The weapon struck
one of the party, and was driven a few inches
into his shoulder. He was the only man
undisturbed. He looked up from his hand,
shrugged himself, and observed with emo-
tion: ‘Curse them mosquitoes!’ Next morn-
ing at six Jack and I were doing the home
stretch. We didn’t mind the niggers and
their spears, but that ingenuous remark
opened up a vista of mosquitoes that knocked
us endways.” [l9/10/’B9;]
It is reported that a bottle lately drifted
ashore on the West Australian coast con-
taining a number of cheques and other secu-
rities payable to John Shaw, and judging
by the dates and the extremely aged appear-
ance of the documents it is believed that
they have been tossing on.the.restless waves
for’ fifteen weary years. Somewhere, about
1575, probably, John sank at midnight in
the middle of a sunless ocean after corking
up liis assets and committing them to the
deep; arid while they Were slowly drifting
to a far-off shore he went down into the
fathomless caves, and the crab walked over
him, and the swordfish stirred him up with
its cold dank nose, and the squid and the
cuttle-fish scornfully passed him by, and the
eel sniffed at him and flicked him with its
tail, and he became a'mere unconsidered
scrap of meat and bone at the bottom of the
ocean. What shall it profit a man if Ins
worldly goods come ashore in a bottle after
he is dead? For his days are short and
precarious, and even if his money is in-
vested in good “shecurity,” at ten per cent.,
he would sacrifice it all in order that he
might get ashore without any clothes on
him on a desert island, and find a cocoanut
or a partially-decayed lobster lying on the
beach. Also, if he escapes from the wreck
on a hencoop, and drifts on to a cannibal
island, and the natives assemble and holler
“meat” as he comes out of the water, what
earthly good is it to him even though he
has a large sum accumulating on fixed
deposit? Or supposing Mr. Shaw was
thrown up on the African coast and doomed
to split wood and wash dishes for some illi-
terate potentate all the days of his life, and
was given in marriage to a female with a
countenance like a horse and a figure that
resembled a quantity of disused pitchforks,
and now sleeps on straw alongside a camel
while his helpmate plants her cold splay
feet on his back at night, what will it benefit
him that his long-lost pile lias been found
where he can’t get at it, and is never likely
to hear of it through all his miserable exist-
ence ? Even if he escaped to some civilised
region after his bottle of wealth went adrift
and made a humble subsistence by peddling
whelks in a barrow during his. declining
years, and then died and was buried by the
parish, what better is he because his van-
ished riches have turned up at last? And
still worse things may have happened to him.
Possibly he has been offered up as a sacri-
fice to a stuffed idol, or has been caught
by a band of ignorant fanatics and ordered
to stand on one leg for 22 years. Possibly
he fell in with a tribe of fetich men, and
they consulted their oracles about him, and
ascertained that he had to be tattooed all
over and then married to sixteen cantan-
kerous widows with 122 children. .These
reflections make us feel sad. What is pro-
perty, after all, and what does it amount to
even if a man has a bill-of-sale over the
entire universe? [l2/7/’9o.]
“I ’member when Mat Lynch, then just
arrived from Ireland, icas green—green as
a frog. Me an’ him was mates that time. One
afternoon we struck Pat Grady’s pub, foot
o’ Clierrytree Hill, ’bout 25 miles this side of
Waller awang. After a time we goes for a
stroll troo’ the orchid, when I sights a old-
man kangaroo up agin’ a apple-tree. I goes
and borrows Grady’s rifle. ‘Holy Saints!’
sez Mat, ‘are ye goin’ to shoot apples off the
thrae?’ ‘Apple be hanged,’ sez I, ‘there’s a
kangaroo.’ Mat had never seen a kangaroo
before —he didn’t sec him then. I banged
an’ just missed —then away bounded the old
fellow; Mat seen him then. ‘Well done,
Mac, me friend,’ sez Mat, ‘yer blew his two
front legs off !’ S’elp me, Bill, if that idiot
didn’t go iookin’ for them two legs!”
It was up north. He was old and she was
young; and he was rich and she was poor.
When they had been marrie'd six months he
died of the jim-jams. They laid him out —
lie made a beautiful corpse, which was no
end of comfort to the young wife. When she
went in alone to take a last fond farewell,
“Oh! Patrick, Patrick dear,” she sobbed,
bending over him, “if ye could only open yer
eyes and look at me ye’d know that I loved
yethruc, and”, There was a wild, hys-
terical shriek, and when they went in the
corpse had one bright eye open, gazing
stolidly at his young widow. “Sure it's
nothing at all, dear, but the shilling’s fell
off,” said a nurse of 90 years as she set the
silver on his eye—and again they left her
with her dead. “Oh, Patrick, if ye could
only know” Off jumped the piece of
silver again, and Pat’s left eye begged to
testifv to the fact that he knew all about
everything, and once more a widow’s scream
was heard for a mile around. And again
the shilling was adjusted; this time the old
nurse suggested that the wind must have
blown it off. And so.it, went, 0n... Every time,
the poor young thing was left' alone with
it the corpse endeavored' to' look at: ‘her. At
last they replaced the shilling with half a
crown, and all stood round to note the effect.'
Five minutes passed in breathless suspense,
ten—and away went the half-crown, and
Pat gazed up at them defiantly through that
left eye! “Go for the doctor and the praste,
the man ain’t did at all,” cried the old
woman • “mebbe it’s a trance he’s in and' he’s
trvin’ to till us not to bury him.” “Dead?”
said the doctor “God bless my soul, the
poor man was dead 24 liours'ago!” They
replaced the coin in position and awaited the
result to convince the medico. Ten minutes
bv the deck and off it went, and Pat’s eye
itself again very much to the consterna-
tion of the little doctor. But upon examma-
tion the mystery was explained. It was a
■•lass eye yet even his bride had never known
It’ l°9/6/'B9 ]
IKx ‘ .
The beer-king of New Zealand is burly
Louis Ebrenfried who owns or controls
close on 150 hotels. Many years ago,
at the time of the West Coast rush, he
started cattle-dealing, shipping cargoes of
live stock from Melbourne to Hokitiki and
the Grey Owing to the dangers of naviga-
tion on the bars of the West Coast rivers
the insurance companies declined to insure,
and owing to the wreck of one of lxis vessels
with a large consignment Ebrenfried found
himself heavily involved and was compelled
to go bankrupt with a debit balance of
£lO,OOO or so. He theri started business at
Thames goldfield as a brewer and rapidly
amassed a fortune. Once fairly on his feet
lie visited all the Australian cities where he
was indebted and paid every one of his
old creditors in full. [ll/5/’S9.]
-——
Have you heard [writes Sappho Smith]
about the new cork bonnet invented by a
London milliner? The shape is made wholly
arid solely of cork-tree bark and needs com-
paratively little trimming to make it look
extremely chic. But how such a “swellable”
material would behave in a drenching shower,
if one had left the husband-beater at home,
is more than I can say. Talking of those
beloved “beaters,” too, it seems the handles
will probably be as long, if not longer than
ever, next summer. The very, short, thick
stick, expected to have come into vogue b\
this time, still a dream of the distant
future. [29/7/ 89.]
LAST NIGHT.
Last night, when the moon rose, round and
white.
Over the crest of the distant hill,
You sang your song to us there last night,
When tlie sleeping world lay hushed and
still.
Oh, why did the scented breezes shake
The oak-tree’s foliage then? I vow
It was that the envious birds should wake
And hear your song ’neath the leafy
bough! ,
They say in this sunlit southern land
The birds thereof have been silent long;
Why they sing no more I understand — •
For you have stolen the wild birds’ song!
Ah. I saw the bright stars wane and swoon,
And heard the murmurous night-wind
sigh !
You sang your song—and the placid moon
Trembled and paled in the soft grey sky.
You sang last night, and the saddened bird
Away to her leaf-hid nestlings flew,
Knowing their music would ne’er be heard
Since Heaven had given their songs—to
you!
THE BREAKER.


w
#
?r -' ;
m
Big Foreign Trade Meeting
in Hawaii, Mar, 1932
BUSINESSMEN, Buyers and Executives of Australia should make
their plans now to attend the big National Foreign Trade Conven-
tion at Honolulu next year. Hawaii is already arranging a special
welcome and entertainment for those who attend. Honolulu has been
selected as the central location for business leaders of the whole Pacific
area, to gather and discuss and transact trade to their mutual benefit.
Leaders of American industry have indicated their intention to be
present, and it is expected that other countries will have distinguished
representatives at the meetings, May 4th, 5th and 6th, 1932. It is
hoped that leaders in Australia will take full advantage of this oppor-
tunity to attend the greatest meeting on International Commerce ever
held in the Pacific area—open to all who care to register as delegates.
Following the trade meeting in Hawaii, another is being called in San
Francisco by the Chamber of Commerce. In addition, the Fourth
Pacific Rotary Conference will meet in Hawaii, preceding the Rotary
International Convention at Seattle in June of that year.
Special excursion fares available. First-class accommodation from 15/-
per day, including meals.
For further details and any information about the trip to Hawaii, see
your nearest steamship or travel agent, or write for literature direct to
Hawaii
c
Dept.
17.
Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney
PROBAK
THE BETTER
FITS GILLETTE
RAZORS O
*s®
mmm
arsTi
mmi
MB8&
HHBfiml
RHS
w&
;U3SH
mmm
m±
asm
mm
m
m
mu
mm
■=:*&§*
mk
?:••->, S>:
vr.+:
lir :
&#'-•■ .
If- •:
m
M
:1
• • hmks
. nhs
. .-
nkuSffiifift&iSl
: .
: j11|%6l
gj|sp!i^i
. *y’: : ii ■
Through thick stubble —on rough
skins, on tender skins —the new
PROBAKS glide firmly, cleanly.
Leave no trace of smart or sore-
ness. PROBAKS are made in
an entirely new way —from long
ribbons of steel, ground, honed,
finished in one continuous opera-
tion — so that PROBAK blades
cannot vary ! Dealers everywhere
sell PROBAK blades !
Price 2/3 the small packet —4/6
the large packet.
British Made
sfd
Agents for Australia .
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED, 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Copenhagen.
WHEREIN
J. H. M. ABBOTT
TELLS OF THE STRANGE CIRCUM-
STANCES UNDER WHICH GOVERNOR BLIGH MET ONE OF HIS OLD
SEAMEN OF THE MUTINY.
ON a midsummer morning, at a little
before eight o’clock, in the year 1802,
11.M.5. Glatton, of the division of
. , • „i rr.. t> „11 ■ _
Admiral Hyde Pa t , fleet in the R
commanded by Vice-Admiral Lord Nelson,
received by signal from that officer’s flagship,
H.M.S. Elephant, in common with the rest
of the lighter ships detailed for particular
. , . . , , ~ . ..
inshore service against the batteries o
Copenhagen and the Danish fleet, the order
to prepare for battle, and to anchor by the
stern, with springs on the cables. Where-
upon Patrick Dancey, captain-of-the-main-
top in the Glatton, clambered to the lofty
perch where the particular business of his
responsible rating was transacted in action,
and prepared to seek some opportunity of
slaying, or disabling for life, his captain,
William Bligh, Esquire, as he paced the
quarter-deck below. In order to accom-
plish what was to him a highly desirable
end, Mr. Dancey carried, concealed on his
person, a small two-barrelled private pistol
which he had christened The Avenger and
hoped to make use of successfully during
the heat and confusion of action. This was
to settle an account that had been outstand-
ing between himself and Captain Bligh for
a matter of about five years—ever since, in
fact, he had served in Bligh’s ship, the
Director, when she became involved in that
unfortunate, though largely excusable, in-
stance of wholesale insubordination in the
Royal Navy which is known in the pages
of history as the Mutiny at the Nore
* „ ~ t . , .
A bitterness of feeling and sense of in-
justice which could suivive five years of
the very active service of those warlike
times must necessarily have had some note-
worthy origin, so we will go back to the
days when Pat Dancey was captain-of-the-
maintop in the Director, 64, and fell foul
of the first lieutenant, Mr. John McTag-
gart—an incident which led to his falling
foul of the captain, which was as dire a
misfortune as could befall any man in the
Royal Navy in those days.
The Director was a ship with which her
commanding officer was very well satisfied.
She was about a dozen years old, and was
rated fourth class, but was a fine sailer
and well manned by a competent company
of 491 men to tend her sails and serve her
guns. She was one of the Channel fleet,
which, under Admiral Duncan, was watch-
ing the Dutch ships in the Texel, and carry-
ing out other duties incidental to the war
against France and Holland. And then, in
May, 1797, came the famous mutiny and
the beginning of the discontent of Mr. Dan-
cey wlth Captain Bligh.
It is not possible here to enter very tully
into the causes of that perilous affair, which
came c l o se to bringing about Britain’s down-
fall as a power at sea, but there is no doubt
that the seamen had many serious griev-
ances. The pay was ridiculously small;
ordinary seamen got 19s. a month, and
a.B.’s 225. 6d., subject to certain very
unfair deductions, and this was what they
had been receiving in the time of Charles
II- and Mr. Secretary-of-the-Navy Pepys,
w^on f he necessaries of life and clothing
a k° a j- P er cen *-- cheaper than in
T<9<. Although army pay and the pay ot
naval lieutenants had been raised, that of
ie seamen had not. Also, provisions were
P aar 111 Quality and deficient in weight
the seaman s pound was but 14oz and his
gallon seven pints’—and vegetables were
nev . er J s « ued in P° rt - The sick were
neglected, and ( the surgeons were said to
embezzle the comforts. . Moreover, the
Pursers cheated the crews m every way they
P°ssibly could, so that, they retired, as
wealthy men, whilst their victims remained
H 1 a service that neglected and staived
nd the harsh conduct of certain
officers was notorious. In Ins Naval His-
tory James says “If a man speaks or
evcn I°°ks to offend he is mi deicd to the
gangway, and the bloody furrows on his
shoulders so ° n increase, in number and
de PtL beneath the vigoious arm that lays
, on th , e cat-o’-nine-tails. Captains there
have been, and captains there are, who,
were the C ruise long enough, would not
i eave a sa ilor belonging to the ship with an
hor»lr”
', . , . , ...
T was . J , 10 s ° rt t ? wkich
James refers that had bitten deep into the
soal . of Patrick Dancey Running to the
ratlines, on his way aloft to supervise the
taking in of sail, he had planted Ins great,
bare, splay foot upon the first lieutenant s
Rstep and had soiled that gentleman s
silken hose with tar.
P amn y°nr eyes! shouted the officer,
Inmke you sweat blood, you swab.
‘£ nd yours, too !” muttered the captain-
of-thc-mamtop, as he sprang aloft,
Being a malicious liar, Mr. McTaggart
had informed the captain that Dancey had
called him “a bastard of a Macaroni”;
whereupon the naturally irascible Bligh had
sworn also, and had commanded that the
petty-officer should be tied up and receive
two dozen, lose his rating and be appointed
captain-of-tlie-heads, a much more unsavory
job in the old-time sailing-ships than it is
to-day in war vessels whose plumbing
arrangements are almost superior to those
of first-class hotels ashore. It was not so
much the two-dozen at the gangway that
hurt Pat Danc-ey’s feelings; it was the
ignominy of being transferred from the
glories of the maintop in a smart ship to
the obscure and menial servitude of “the
heads.” It would be equivalent to taking
an army sergeant-major and putting him
in charge of the latrines.
Soon afterwards had come the Mutiny,
and. although .Captain Bligh had not been
put ashore by his rebellious men for a week
after it had broken out, the dreams of
personal revenge entertained by Mr. Dan-
cey had had no chance of being realised. In
due course the trouble ended, and Captain
Bligh returned to his ship, strangely enough
full of forgiveness. He made extra-
ordinary efforts, which stand well in his
record, to save his crew from further
punishments threatened by the Admiralty,
Amongst other merciful measures he re-
instated the captain-of-the-lieads in his
former rating as captain-of-the-maintop. But
Mr. Dancey was bitter and vindictive, and
treasured up the double-barrelled pocket-
pistol lie had looted from the purser’s cabin
in the days of disorder, until opportunity
should present itself of using it upon the
man who had doomed him to the ignominy
of “the ’heads.”
At ten o’clock the Edgar, Ardent and
Glatton weighed anchor, and ran in towards
the shore batteries and the line of warships
anchored beneath them, the other lighter
vessels following them. “After engaging
from the south end of the enemy’s line,”
says Captain Bligh’s log, “we anchored pre-
cisely in our station abreast of the Danish
Commodore. At 10.26 the action began. At
noon, the action continuing very hot, our-
selves much cut up. Our opponent, the
Danish Commodore, struck to us, but his
seconds ahead and astern still kept up a
strong fire. At 11.24 our fore topmast was
shot away, seven of our upper deck guns
disabled by the enemy. The Bellona and
Russell got aground and could not take their
stations. The Agamemnon could not
weather the middle, so our line did not
extend so far to the north as it was in-
tended by three ships, Lord Nelson our
second ahead.”
Through the crash and bellow of the guns,
and amid the eddying volumes of smoke
rolling upwards into the rigging at the dis-
charge of each broadside on the starboard
side—the other was not in action—Patrick
Dancey clung to liis quivering and vibrating
perch in the maintop, unmindful of the
whizzing round-shot hissing through the
atmosphere about him out of the dense fog
of smoke that lay between the British and
the Danish ships, with the higher batteries
of the fortifications ashore, incessantly
flashing their discharges, showing above the
drifting, sunlit white clouds. But all the
time he watched the quarter-deck with one
eye, waiting for his chance.
The captain was striding slowly back and
forth by the fife-rail of the poop, his hands
behind his back, and' his long telescop 1
tucked under one arm —he was too far away
from the ’top, with the swirling and
elusive smoke eddying about the upper deck
and through the lower rigging, to risk a
shot from the pistol. But he would come
down presently on to the quarter-deck, to
walk along the batteries and encourage the
men at the guns—he always did that, sooner
or later —and then Pat Dancey would send
Billy Bligh to look after “the heads” in
Ileli, which he was quite sure would be the
job given the captain when he should report
himself aboard Admiral Satan’s flagship.
If only he would hurry up and come down
from the poop !
Towards midday Pat saw a midshipman
run up from the waist and salute the cap-
tain and say something to him. Bligh
nodded, and walked towards the head of the
port poop-ladder.
“Ah-r— now!” growled murderous Mr.
Dancey, as his commanding officer descended
to the quarter-deck. He drew the pistol from
the bosom of his shirt, peered hastily at the
priming and cocked it. “Mary,” he mur-
mured, pious Catholic that he was, “stiddy
me hand, an’ shtraighten me eye, an’ gimme
good luck!”
And then something happened that greatly
affected the not-distant history of New
South Wales.
The thirty-two-pounder nearest the break
of the poop on the port side leapt back-
ward with a thudding crash upon the deck
as it was fired, and, hurling themselves upon
it, the sweating, lialf-naked crew that served
it proceeded to make it ready for the next
round. A young boy came running from the
hatchway with a cartridge—a little grimy
powder-monkey, who grinned up at the cap-
tain as he sped by him, hugging the charge
to his chest with thin, childish arms. There
was a splintering, tearing impact in the
bulwarks just for’ard of the gun that was
being hastily sponged out, and a round-shot
crashed through the stout oaken wall below
the hammock-nettings, sending whirling
slivers of white wood flying about the deck
and lobbing and sticking in the starboard
bulwark opposite, after neatly decapitating
a gunner’s-mate who was doing something
to the breach of the temporarily unemployed
gun below where it struck. The powder-
monkey was sent flying and slithering along
the deck towards the wheel before the
entrance to the cabin, whose spokes were
grasped by two horror-stricken seamen.
The wind of the flying missile had twisted
the captain round, almost upsetting him,
but not quite. Pat Dancey lowered the
barrels of his pistol and took aim down-
wards from the maintop at Bligh’s shoulders.
A moment the twin barrels pointed at the
unconscious commanding-officer of the
(Continued on next page.)


f
m
■'«A i
W
my
ft
c
\
m)
/
I*
i
;
;
fjhe Cjtow- worn caUes
of Waitomo
Imagine a fairy city, with palace after palace of stalactite wonders,
the Sculptor’s Studio, with its delicate statuary, the stately
Banqueting Hall, the Cathedral and the dazzling Glow-worm Caves.
Your boat steals forward on a river of dark opal. Overhead the
darkness is pierced as by a million stars, reflected in the water.
You hold your breath and marvel at this eighth wonder of the
world, the Glow-worm Grotto.
Come to
NEW ZIE All A
FILL IN THIS COUPON
■nil post it, addressed to—
N.Z. Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
Or T. G. Dewar, 79 Queen St.. Brisbane.
Please send me Illustrated Booklet and
full information about New Zealand.
' eme
1 -’.dress
for a DIFFERENT
Holiday
. You con
) be in
NEW
1 ZEALAND
r li! yJ daijs
Glatton; and then its muzzles were hesitat-
ingly raised, and the shot cracked out un-
noticed in the din of battle, probably hnd-
ing its billet in the Danish Commodore s
ship. Something miraculous had surprised
the assassin and unsteadied his aim.
“My God, luk at him now !” muttered the
astounded captain-of-the-maintop. Won-
ders'll niver sayse!”
Bligh had run aft to the prostrate pow-
der-monkey, had lifted him in his arms, and
was dabbing with his handkerchief at a
bleeding cut in the lad’s head hy a
flying splinter. The sobbing child s arms
were about the captain’s neck.
“Now, God forgive me wakeness, but 1
can’t do it!’’ half-sobbed Patrick Dancey.
“Sure, there’s some good, even in that
Billy Bligh !”
* * * *
Captain William Bligh, lately the Gov-
ernor of New South Wales, but now, after
a stormy and trying two years, succeeded
in his government by Colonel Macquarie, was
paying a visit to the Hawkesbury for the
purpose of’settling his affairs in that dis-
trict and transacting some final business
with his agent, Mr. Andrew Thompson, of
the Green Ilills. It w r as early in April, 1810,
and the ex-Governor was busily preparing
for his departure for England in 11.M.5.
Hindostan, which had been arranged for
somewhere about the end of the month.
He was Mr. Thompson’s guest in the line
house which that gentleman had built near
the right bank of the river in the township,
whose name Macquarie was soon to change
to Windsor. (The house still stands.:.a little
way below the Royal Hotel.) With his host
Captain Bligh was seated on the verandah,
enjoying the afternoon sunshine of a perfect
autumn day and drinking a glass or two of
post-prandial port, whilst he discussed his
affairs with the shrewd young Scot who had
so well looked after them since the _ ex-
Governor had purchased land in the neigh-
borhood. A sick man was Mr. Thompson—
he died later in the year—as a result of the
exposure and exertions he had subjected him-
self to during the recent floods in the
Hawkesbury. Nevertheless, with whole-
minded assiduity he was devoting himself
to the settlement of Captain Bligh’s affairs.
“Aboot yon bull, sir. It doesn’t seem verra
like that we’re gaun to get anyone for to
purchase him afore ye sail. There’s none
aboot these pairts would seem to hae taken
a liking to the beastie. I confess it has
troubled me not a little —the question aboot
what we’d best tae dae wi’ him.”
Captain Bligh put down his glass, and
smiled at Mr. Thompson.
“Well, then, Thompson,” he said, I m
hardly surprised at that, you know. Old
Rory’s hardly what would be called a young-
ster, is he? I think I got him from the
Government herd soon after I purchased the
land down the river, didn’t I? And he was
by no means youthful then, if I remember
rightly what the Superintendent of Stock
told me at the time. But have ye tried
everybody?”
“Verra nigh, your Ex I mean, sir.
Still, I mind there’s one auld body I’ve not
offered him to, though he’s such a mean old
skinflint I doot whether ’tis worth the trouble
o’ speiring. Still, ye never know. Maybe
he’d give a low price. If not, I’m thinking
’twould be as well to shoot th’ puir auld
beastie. He’s scarce worth the pasture he
consumes, nowadays-—though he’s been, a
good getter in his time, I'm no denying o’t.
“Well, who is it, then?”
“ ’Tis a dour auld Irish laddie named
Patsy Dancey, who bides across South Creek
yonder, a wee bit ayint the crest o’ McGrath s
Hill—maybe a mile, or a mile and a half,
from here. He has the auld Rosevale farm,
which he bocht from Terence Obadiah, an’s
ca’d ‘Copenhagen.’ ”
“ Copenhagen! ’Tis a queer name to five to
a parcel of land, Mr. Thompson., Why did
lie name it so—are you aware? ’
“I dinna keii exactly-like, Captain Bligli,
but I’ve heard tell he was an old man-o-
warsman, one of your own sairvice, sir. I
don’t think there’s much use in trying him,
but if you feel so disposed this afternoon
we might drive across there, an’ try our
fortune. Are ye minded for the. journey,
sir? Indeed, ’twill not tak" much time ; and
after that, well, we can make away wi’ puir
auld Rory wi’ easy minds.”
“Well, ’twould be a pleasant outing after
a good dinner, at any rate. I think we might
as well.” . •
“Guid !” said Mr. Thompson, rising. 111
go tell Harry, the groom, to bring round
the gig. Anither soop o’ por-rt now, sii\
We’ll drink success to our efforts, though I
hae ma doots.”
Very neat and shipshape was the tiny cot-
tage outside which Mr. Thompson reined in
his mare, after half an hour’s drive up the
slope of McGrath’s Hill, and over the crest
of the rise, along the road to Parramatta. A
hard-faced Irishman with a red-grey chili-
whisker came into the open doorwmy in
answer to Mr. Thompson’s hail. He stared
hard at Captain Bligli, and made an uncom-
pleted salute, half raising his finger to his
forehead, and then seeming to think better
of the politeness, and spitting with an air
of defiance on the ground before him. How-
ever, he beckoned them to enter the little
house, produced a rum-bottle and glasses
from a cupboard, motioned them to seats, and
sat himself down to hear what their busi-
ness might be —all without speaking a single
word. His non-committal attitude seemed
to embarrass Mr. Thompson, who hardly
knew how to broach the object of their visit.
He cleared his throat to speak, but was
interrupted by Captain Bligh.
“Good Gad, Thompson, our friend’s got a
picture of my old ship, the Director. Look,
therp—above the fireplace. Are ye Navy,
my man?” he asked their host with interest;
“Faith, I am, thin —luk it here !”
In a second lie had whipped his shirt over
his head, and stood with it in his hand,
facing them. His muscular torso and hairy
chest shone white in the window's light.
“See the brand!” he said, turning slowly
round. “You ought to know ut, Cap’ll
Bligh. ’Twas you what put it there. Oh,
be jabers, I’m Navy right enough ! There’s
no mistabin’ ut. 'Tis th’ mar-rk o Audr
Miller, right enough. Oh faith, yis ’> ■ .
In silence they stared at the white weal
running in a criss-cross fashion diagonally
from each shoulder to the opposite hip.
nearly half a minute he stood with averted
face, then turned slowly round, and put on
hl he muttered, _ “there’s nomis-
takin’ ut! I’m Navy, sirs—the Director
and the Glatton. Mebbe th’ Cap’n 11 momd
me. I was a cap’n, too—two sorts o capin,
at diff’ren’ toimcs, cap’n-o -th -maintop an
cap’n-o’-th’ -heads. Will ye renumber me,
Cap’n Bligh? Faith, I renumber you.
For a time no one said anything. 1
Captain BUgh cleared his throat and spoke
It was strange to Mr. Thompson, the gentle
way in which he addressed the glowering
“Dancey,” he said, “I do remember you. l
remember punishing and disrating
before the business at the Nore. And I ieco
lect you in the Glatton, m the Baltic. You
were a good maintopman, and did very
—alwavs. If I was once severe with you,
all I can say is. I hope there’s no malice.
Here’s my hand.”
The Irishman sneered, and made a gesture
with his right hand that seemed to convey
a desire to be done .with the matter. He
spoke to Mr. Thompson. . .
“An’ what moight ye be a-wantin of me,
SO “Ah, yes. Dancey”—Andrew Thompson
brought himself back to business. Asi ye
ken, Captain Bligh’s -going back t 0 England,
and is disposing of his livestock. I came U
see whether you’d care to make an. offer foi
the bull that’s running m Mr. Bligh s farm
down the river. You’ll know him well—
Rory, he’s called. I think you have some of
his progeny here, haven’t ye.
“I have some of his discindants, Mr.
Thompson, if that’s what ye mane. His gre t-
gre’t gran’childher I’m thinkin they d be.
Sure, lie’s as ould as Methuseley; but by
God, I’ll buy him, so I will. But twill be
o n’y be way of a thrade. I’ve something 111
give in exchange for him, an’ that s th on y
way I’ll be afther buyin’ th’ doddenn ould
baste, so it is.” „ , .
“Oh, I dinna think so, Dancey. Captain
Bligh’s going away, and”——
“A moment, Thompson!’ Bligh was inter-
ested in his old shipmate. “Now. what is it,
my man? What do you propose to exchange
for the bull? I’ll admit he’s old, and I don t
want much for him —but what is it? Come,
it is near sunset —we must be returning
home, I think, Thompson.” He rose from his
seat. “Well, my man?”
The owner of Copenhagen Farm hobbled
to the picture of the Director, and from
underneath it removed a small object from
the slab wall of the hut. He turned with
it in his hand. , .
“ ’Tis this pistol, sorr. I had it aimed at
ye once, for I t’ought ye’d be betther dead;
but I fought betther of it, an’ let ye live.
Ye’d betther take it, sorr—an’ I’ll bury y;r
ould Methuseley for ye. Tis th’ best bit
o’ luck iver ye had. At Copenhagen, twas
—an’ I named this place because of ui. To
me. sorr, Copenhagen shpells Forgiveness
an’ I don’t care what th’ralc mailin’ of th
wurrud may be. I’ve forgive ye, jPip’o Bligh,
for th’ crool deed ye done me.”
“For flogging you!”
“For makin’ me, Pat Dancey, th’ smar-rt-
est maintopman in th’ fleet, cap’n-o’-th'-heads
That’s why I nigh shot ye, Cap’n Bligh. But
at th’ las' minit I seen some good in ye. an
shpared y’r loife. Ye’d ha’ had no thanks
from Lor-rud Nilson —rist his brave sowl .
if ye hadn’t ha’ picked up th’ powder-monkey,
young Georgy Dale. Take it, sorr, An' I n
take the bull.”
For a little while Captain Bligh said
nothing; then he put the pistol in his pocket,
and held out his hand. But the other party
to the bargain shook his head.
“I’ll be wishin’ ye good-avenin’, gintlemin,”
was all he said, with a sort of quiet dignity.
“Come, Thompson,” said Captain Bligh,
and they walked out into the dusk.
The Wattle-tree.
Winter 1 is not yet gone, but now
The birds are enrolling from the bough,
And the mist has rolled away,
Leaving more beautiful the day.
The sun is out —oh. come with me
To look upon the Wattle-tree!
Let misers hoard and hide their gold;
Here there is treasure-trove untold,
In yellow blossom, mass on mass,
Spread out for wayfarers who pass
With hearts to feel and eyes to see
How lovely is the Wattle-tree.
O strange, O magical! to forget
For a moment care and fret,
Whilst the vext spirit, like a cup
Drained of delight, again fills up
And overflows with ecstasy
Before the Miracle of the Tree!
And rich and poor who pause to bless
The shining tree in thankfulness
Are bound in fellowship indeed.
What matter politics and creed,
Or class and color? Surely he
Loves mankind who loves a tree!
Towards illimitable skies
From the earth the trees arise;
Givers of joy, their gold and green
Against the blue of Heaven is seen.
A symbol of man’s destiny
Is the blossoming Wattle-tree.
Winter is not yet gone ; but now
The birds are carolling from the bough,
And wind has swept the rain away,
Leaving more beautiful the day.
The sun is out —oh, come with me
To look upon the Wattle-tree!
N.S.W.
DORA WILCOX.
Madonna.
You before whom nations’ knees have been
bended,
Framed in wreathed arches of glittering
gold, , ,
Who have seen suppliant sceptres extended,
Empresses kneeling in panoply splendid,
Was not your cooking-hearth cold
Sometimes, when coin lacked to earn or to
borrow,
Idle the bench of the carpenter’s trade,
When tithing and tax had darkened the
morrow,
And the poor’s shy joy stood aside for sorrow,
And the rent-fear’s shadow stayed?
Carpenter’s wife and a Carpenter’s mother,
Bare- and brown-footed, the dust-tracks
you trod
As though you could name the world’s king
for your brother,
As though humble seraphs walked one side
or other,
Your pitcher a chalice of God !
For the jars liead-borne by Nazareth’s
daughters
Dowered their movements with pride ot
the deer;
Morning and evening they drew the well-
waters —
Bread-kneaders, babe-bearers, hearth-sweep-
ers, porters.
Straight as a Syrian’s spear.
When crystal lamps glimmer before the
manger
And the censers’ steam makes a dusk of
blue,
What of the inn that shut door to the
stranger
Though the workman’s wife was in child-
birth danger
And-her first great hour was due?
Young as you were, what did child-bed be-
queath you,
Sister in pain to all outcasts of man?
Breath of the storm-sheltering cattle to
wreathe you.
Nothing of warmth or of softness to sheathe
you
While pain and star-songs began.
(The songs the tramp-woman, low in the
grasses, , ~ .
Hears ’mid the throes when birth kisses
her brow, . ,
And death’s foot loiters and pauses ana
passes— .
The songs of the stars by their choirs ana
classes
Praising Life’s will then as now.)
You in starred azure with sun-gold for glory
Whose outheld hands would give bread to
the world, „ , , T
Did you dream dimly the end of the stor>
When the earth-shudder rocked /ion s wails
hoary, . , _
And dust round the crosses curled?
You who have looked upon final disaster,
Feeling a Child's gibbet-nails m youi
heart — , , o 1„
Though your Heaven-calm house is of aia
baster, , . r .
Heaven your womanhood cannot o ermaster.
Our tears in your sweet eyes start.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


BTSmCEB
Ladre s Snssors Case
O' l
O'
L
LADY’S SCISSORS CASE,—Made of Fine Roan
Leather for lasting- wear. Size when
folded, about <>} x inches.
\o. 6.-4 pairs, contains: 1 pair Tin. Cutting -
out Scissors. 1 pair Embroidery, 1 pair
Nail, and 1 pair 4iin. Lady’s Scissors, all
Nickel-plated. 35/- per case. Complete.
Same as above containing 3 pairs Scissors,
25/-. Post free.
■
- IPs
s=-g-Ul;ffi
*-=o
V-
■ 'TiiiBMitHMW
861
Hand-forged Steel Carvers
831.—Grained Xylonite Handle, Best Hand-
forged nine-inch blade Carving Knife.
Self-acting Guard Fork, 25/- per pair.
Poultry ’Carver and Fork, same price.
Steels, 6/6 each. Post free.
861.—Oval Xylonite Handle. Forged Steel
ninednch blade Carving Knife and Fork,
15/- per pair. Post free. .Steels, 5/- each.
Post free.
*jp
IMPROVED ALEGRO SHARPENER.—Auto-
matically Strops and Hones both sides o:
the blade without removing blade. .Tusi
slide Holder up and down.
Al.—Gillette Type Gunmetal Finish, 25/-
Nickel-plated, 28/-
A-.—Auto Strop and Gem Type, Gunmeta
Finish, 25/-; Nickel-plated, 28/-
A3.—Star and Wilkinson Type, Gunmeta
Finish, 25/-; Nickel-plated, 28/-; Pos
free.
W. JNO. BAKER
HIGH-GRADE CUTLERY.
isin
77—W. JNO. BAKER FINEST
QUALITY AND FINISH EXTRA
FULL HOLLOW GROUND.
First-class in every respect./
Jin. wide, 9/6; fin. wide. 9/6: Jin. wide, 10/6; Jin. wide,
11/6; lin. wide, 12/6. Post free.
BAKER
W.JNO
SVONEY
a o 9
W. JNO. BAKER
DAGGING SHEAR
in SHEATH, to
carry on saddle.
No. I.—sin. Shear
in Sheath. 13/6.
Postage, 1/-
No. 2—6 in. Shear
in Sheath, 14/6.
Postage 17-
No. 4—i-iin. Pull
Size Shear and
Sheath. 17/6.
Postage 1/3.
mmir
'J
Ss
$B2
M
Two W. .Jno. Baker
Full Hollow Ground
Black Handle Razors,
In Soft Leather Case.
17/6 Complete. Post free.
N5O Strong Nail
Nipper, Nickel-
plated. over
all. 6/6 each. Post
free.
WmJm. BAKER
RAZOR HONE
MAD * *N A
3 2
ft,. _ b.
3r>2*Y a nt
KEEN EDGE RAZOR HONE, siste 5 x 2 x fine'cutting.
In box. complete with instructions, 4/- each. Postage 9d.
SUPERFINE RAZOR HONE. Size 7-x 2 x tin. Very tine,
smooth, fast cutting. Specially suitable for finely
hollow-ground razors, 6/(5 each. Postage 9d.
m
mm
o
060 — 31c, l . n.ST’S KNIFE, Metal Haft- (size as illustration). Contains
Spear Blade. Pen Blade, Screwdriver. Crown Bottle Opener. Tin
Opener, Tester, File, Screw Wrench, Corkscrew, Leather Gouge,
Gimlet and Shackle, 19/6 each. Post free.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
3326 —-Fine quality.
Nickel - plated all
over. Easy Bow
Cutting-out Scissor,
6in., 5/6; 7in„ 6/6:
Bin., 7/6 each. Post
free.
Belt Pouch for
Pocket Knives.
Made at 3 Hunter
Street, of Finest
Selected Leather,
Hand Sewn up to
4in. over all, 3/3
each; sin., 3/9
each. Postage 3d.
210.
Kail File. Finest
Quality and Finish.
Stag Haft. 8/6;
Ivory. 9/6: Pearl,
15/6.; Tortoise-shell,
12/6 each. Post-free;
c
Wsm
W.TnSm^er
SBO Length
o v e r all.
18in. ; width.
!in. Green Vel-
vet Leather
Razor Strop,
good quality,
well finished
and worked
up. 4/6 each.
Post free.
HORSE
HIDE
W.JNDBAMR
SHUHTEF SV7
SS.y,DNE!fe
S 58 Length
over all, 25in.;
width, 2in.;
xOenuine Horse-
hide Razor
Strop, excel-
lent quality,
beautifully fin-
ished and
worked up„
Double sided
with Clip
Swivel. 10/6
each. Post free.
t
fi
155—W- JNO. BAKER STATION
AND FARMER’S KNIFE. Tho
Standard Favorite of the Aus-
tralian Bush. 3Jin. Stag- Haft,
13/6 each ; Ivory Haft, l3/6 each.
Post free.
W. JNO. BAKER, 3 hunter st., Sydney.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS ... .
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
r
0\
0--.
Y>
0°
JIP <s e
■< % -
..••" f .. ** <s•
&$*
’ ss?<s&.
V^'
> s . o<


Full of Energy and Cheer
The two letters reproduced here are from
people who suSered from nerve-weak-
ness, listlessness, lack of energy, etc. Read
how quickly Sanatogen helped them to
recover strength and vitality.
“It is years since I felt so
well and happy. I was full
of pain and depression
through indigestion and
nervousness, but now,
through Sanatogen, the
world and all that is in
it is brighter and more
cheerful.”
MISS G. H., LONG EATON.
“Before I had finished
my first tin of Sanatogen
I felt great relief and
could eat and sleep better.
I am a new woman and
now, when I feel tired
and a bit “run-down,”
I take Sanatogen and I
am all right.”
MRS. A. K, NETHERFIELD.
V
If you want to feel stronger, fresher,
healthier —if you want to get rid of nerve
weakness, listlessness, digestive troubles,
then start a course of Sanatogen to-day.
Sanatogen will refresh, and revivify your
whole system in a few weeks, because it
contains exactly the right proportion of
those elements glycero-phosphate and
albumin—that build “Health” into the
nerves, muscles and blood.
Give this famous nerve - strengthening
food a trial. A tin of Sanatogen now is
an investment in Good Health.
Feel fit and fresh by taking
SANATOGEN
THE TRUE TONIC-FOOD
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
At all Chemists .
