

»
i '
:
)MS> '
■
i -1
-
mmm
gllipiia
IB
i
■&:■■ ■
ms
y:< y -y
m
Si:
m
:
:
: ;: w. :
IH
m
B
.
THE
POINT
BE
-|-fCR tobacco
of the finest
SHT a cneciat bieno i„f: n u e W
of the finest
A sp6Cld '^bacco- definitely
Virgin’® f°b® «other
*■ flne
flavour of Counlry l*
pcTTER MAR!
_ toil you that
You.
Country L t ' its «™. even
S?o 9 C °"o. o°oUree -oh*
to the end.
“■"" eS d bY <i co«°u'' , ’p«V , " g (
served bY dy „„ or
'St't'oulor 01,„ 9h .
wrapper-
COUNTRY LIFE
CORK TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Pkts.l/1 Tins \f A
of 14 W of 21 t o
And in Tins of 50, 100 and 150. Also 50s Round Air-tight Tins.
Made in your Own Country at the Garden Factory—Raleigh
Park-by W. D. & H. O. Wills (Avst.) ltd.
The Bulletin
s\SutlxdvJt!\iAAj& {pfrutva ~to lk£j3 LL& P— r (R $ .
Vol. 52.—N0. 2695.
Wednesday, October 7, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a .Newspaper.


/"NUR New Library Catalogue for 1931 ia
notv ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Story Writing
>3 UH Vf at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ••....»••..•••••
My Address
S.B. 231
{L.'YSAGHTT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA.
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
X'JZfatMAyZajU*,
k j-Sci&rvee ,
S&xicj, Siftie.
$■ Se\een ?ur£c4» /’a”' 0 *
tAe. Jfru-ny
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane '‘Telegraph”' is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Cbe Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
A nstralian, Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*"*• should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
ipvited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia H'ouse, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . . . • • • • 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
fasgtfasgt
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The “Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtamable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
Mary Gilmore’s Religion.
The number of persons who are steadily
writing poetry of a purely devotional nature
must be extremely small. In Australia I
know of only one, Mary Gilmore, who
between about 1920 and 1926 wrote enough
verse of that nature to make a quite sizeable
volume, The Rue Tree (Robertson and Mul-
lens; 55.). Mrs. Gilmore’s devotion carries
strong marks of deep conviction. Because of
this, because it is the work of a woman
and a religious statement, it invites,
not comparison, but some consideration
of the authors relationship with Christina
Rossetti. Apart from those general and
superficial aspects, the relationship is no
doubt tenuous. “For Thou hast lit Thy
flame in me, a clod” is not Mrs. Gilmore’s
religious address. Nor is “If only I might
love my God and die!” Nor yet is it
' Give me the lowest place; or if for me
That lowest place too high, .make one more 10w....
That is the statement of Christina Rossetti’s
religion, a humble personal petitioning
between herself and her God. Mrs. Gil-
more’s devotion has humility, but not to
that extent. On the other hand, it has not
that selfness which, for all it wears lily-
white robes, is the most striking character-
istic, if not the whole inspiration, of
Christina Rossetti’s. Broadly, the difference
is that Christina Rossetti wrote in hope and
Mrs. Gilmore-writes in the complete trinity.
Christina Rossetti’s poetry sprang from
sensuous feeling; Mrs, Gilmore’s springs
from human sympathy. This, however,
does not tend to make Mrs. Gilmore’s such
pure poetry. It leads her to assume the
role of missionary. It is not enough that
she should have conviction, she would have
others have it. and that easily leads to the
judging of others, a practice outside the
Rossetti credo. Mrs. Gilmore judges
strongly:—
Wonder is dead: O fool,
Wonder can never die....
There is something besides a Rossetti con-
viction in that statement; there is assur-
ance. Mrs. Gilmore’s religion asks for help
and sustenance, but it has no doubts.
Christina Rossetti to her God is a spiritual
lover and Mrs. Gilmore to hers a spiritual
mother. The “make one more low” quat-
rain concludes: —
, Where I may sit and see
My God and love Thee so.
It is the very image of suppliant love.
But there is a sense of strength and power
in Mrs, Gilmore’s
Strive on, O flesh, and so refuse to die!
Thou are my bread, my voice, my pathway to the
sky
And reverent and devotional as is “0 Thou,
my Lord, Who on the cross didst hang,” it
yet seems to me to be spiritually maternal;
strength to weakness. It is the possessive
“my” that does it, I suppose; and again in
I will arise and go to my Father,
0, I will go to Him!
I have put by the noisy feast,
The beakers at the brim;
I have grown weary of the song,
■Of voices whispering low,
And the loud laugh like empty wind
That crackles to and fro.
“Why should I call Thee Lord, Who art
my God?” cries Christina Rossetti; “Why
should I call Thee Friend, Who art my
Love?” and the mortal weakness in the cry
leaves the “my” no shadow of possessive
sense. It is a spiritual cry; Mrs. Gilmore’s
seems a call to the world to come also to
Calvary. From the Christian gospelling
point of view I suppose Mrs. Gilmore’s cry
is the more important; from the poetic, I
know the importance is with the other
devotee. Some of Mrs. Gilmore’s wholly
devotional pieces, the very charming “A
Christmas Carol,” “The Rue Tree,”
For the Rue Tree is the tallest tree,
None other is so tall ;
The Rue Tree is the smallest, tree,
O none so sad and small;
and “Is the Room Set?” and that illumina-
tion for sectarians “The Bells of Goulburn,”
and several others, are as richly poetic
as they are devout. But the most poetic
statement I find in the book is where the
inspirational current seems to flow not
through a contemplation of Christianity
to things, but through a contemplation of
things upward to Christianity, as in the
supremely lovely “The Lobelia,” which will
not be marred by being quoted from here.
Another example (this sonnet, not being
nearly So good, may be quoted from without
sacrilege) is the opening lines of “Gundary
Plain”;—
I have seen distance and have drunk of it,
Quenching a soul’s thirst in unmeasured space....
There, I think, is
Mrs. Gilmore a
poet. Throughout,
her sincerity is as
admirable as her
zeal is apparent.
Her religion is a
very firm rock.
Red Page.
“A Second Dickens”
At an age when most young writers are.
still mouthing undergraduate poems, J. B.
Priestley had achieved a succcs d’estime
with his essays and volumes of criticisms.
No great novelist of the past ever created a
comic character but Priestley knew why
that character was comic, and was able
to explain his comicality without detracting
from it. He really did shed a lustre upon
the high lights of literary waggery. His
taste was doggedly and superbly sound, his
reasons for his tastes were orthodox, sin-
cere and convincing, and he was able to
carry off his criticisms quite without dulness
—indeed, elegantly and delightfully.
He emerged in due course from this
chrysalis stage of criticism and stretched
his wings as a novelist. Little notice was
taken of his early flights of fancy, including
one work, Farthing Hall, written in collabo-
ration with Hugh Walpole, which contained,
in great measure, all the faults of both its
authors. Priestley, however, was soon to
arrive, He arrived with a success which
was well deserved, if a little too spectacular
for sober-minded judges. Everybody read
and praised The Good Companions; it had
not an enemy in the world.
It was certainly a very good novel. It
had wit, humanity, a spice of satire: best
of all it was a happy book and not stupidly
written. It was a human novel from the
pen of a literary man, and its characters
were real people who reached a happy end-
ing at lait and in doing so filled the real
people among its readers with relief and a
sense of optimism. Flesh and blood readers
found in The Good Companions an aus-
picious omen for themselves.
And then—it happened.
All the little tribe of critics drew one
deep communal breath and brayed forth in
one deep communal voice, “Why, he’s a
second Dickens.”
The die was cast. A new second Dickens
■had arrived, the latest since Compton Mac-
kenzie. In Priestley’s case the sequel has
been tragic. Most of the second Dickenses
of recent years have gone peaceably upon
their way writing further (but not fresh)
humorous novels which the reviewers unite
in decrying as “somehow not quite fulfilling
the promise of their first books.” But
Priestley has apparently taken their words
of encouragement to him quite literally, and
furthermore has earnestly set himself to
live up to their praise. Never did any man
before so blatantly plagiarise the Dickens
manner as Priestley has plagiarised it in
Angel Pavement. Every twist and trick and
sleight-of-hand of which Dickens was master
Priestley clumsily and stumblingly attempts.
Examine for a moment the Dickens
manner. How does Dickens introduce a
great comic character? First comes the
name, a great masterpiece of slapstick like
Snevellici or Lillyvick or Micawber or
Pumblechook. Then comes an unforget-
table etching of the character, placing the
creature at once among the rarest freaks
in the universe and yet depicting a person
perfectly well known to the least imagina-
tive of readers. Finally the character him-
self lavishly exhibits those risible qualities
at which Dickens has hinted. Remember
Mrs. Wilpur shouting (to impress the neigh-
bors) with the voice of a sergeant-major,
“Let the male domestic of Mrs.. Boffin
appear!” Remember Mr. Jingle’s picture of
the mother of a family losing her head on
top of a coach: the sandwich in her hand
and no mouth left to put it into. Dickens’s
characters are gorgeous creatures when
their, author parades them for our inspec-
tion; but how much more gorgeous when
they are allowed to show their own paces!
In Dickens’s footsteps, lagging far behind,'
trudges poor Priestley. Observe the care
with which he labels the major cards of
Angel Pavement. There are Mr. and Mrs.
Pelumpton and Mr. Benenden and Major
Trape, the Old Worellian. Observe theTan-
tasy lavished on them at their christenings.
Each one, as Priestley draws him, is a fan-
tastic, brilliantly amazing personality, an
astonishing freak in the modern comedy of
London life. But as each character unfolds
the panorama of himself before us, what
a drab spectacle is presented. Mr. Pelump-
ton’s one claim to wit is that he says “sh”
where other men say “s,” and this annoy-
ing quality, which serves only to make his
pointless meanderings harder than ever to
digest, is paraded as spicy wit over many
gloomy pages. Mrs. Pelumpton’s best
claim to be funny (and she has no other
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE”
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Business Integrity.
Sportsmen
I
Shoot and
Fish - - - -
with materials
that give
MAXIMUM
RESULTS
Anthony Horderns'
SITUATED IN BLOCK 14
FISHING TACKLE
RELIABLE QUALITY MODERATELY PRICED
SPLIT CANE ROD
ip asißi
Alcock’s Imperial Split Cane
Rod. 1 | ft., 3 joints, lock fer-
rules, cork grip, extra top,
closely whipped, superior finish.
£12/12/-
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price £12/12/-
t
SPLIT CANE, 3 JOINTS
John Holt Schooling Split Cane Rod.
104 ft.. 3 joints, agate rings. Medium
heavy.
701/83
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price
£B/10/-
SPLIT CANE 2-PIECE ROD
I s *
■* ' '
Split Cane Two-piece Rod. 6Jft.,
double guides, locking reel seat,
heavyweight.
Anthony Horderns’
Conversion Price 65/-
65/
7ft. GREENHEART SEA ROD
Greenheart Sea Rods. 7ft., 2
joints, poreclain rings, cork grip.
Heavy— Conversion Price . . 407-
Light— Conversion Price . . 30/-
40/
<13 CO
ALL METAL
BALL BEARING.
Landem All Metal Ball
Bearing Reel. Made of
aluminium alloy, com-
bine the lightness with
the added advantage of
large line capacity,
t r o ngly constructed
and free running on
0.
hardened steel bearings which are adjustable
so that side play or rattle is unknown.
4in. 5in. 6in.
Line capacity—
200 500 800
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Prices—
60/- 75/- 95/-
ALUMINIUM GUNMETAL
TROUT REEL
3in., 17/6
3J!n„ 24 j-
ACCURACY and WORKMANSHIP ASSURED
TENNIS
RACKETS
Completely
Re-strung
' 6/6
A phenomenal purchase of splen-
did quality Tennis Gut allows us
to repeat our sensational offer of
completely stringing Tennis
Rackets for
No. 2 -
6/6
No. 1.
8/6
D.B. COLLECTOR GUN
Belgian .410 Bore Folding
Double - barrelled Collector
Gun. Side-lever hammers
below line of sight; nicely
engraved and best finish.
100/-
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price . . 100/*
AUTOMATIC EJECTOR
Harrington and Richardson,
1 2-g a u g e, Single-barrelled
Gun. Top lever, automatic
ejector, full choke. Weight
about 61b. 30in. or 32in.
52/6
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price . . 52/6
fasgtfasgt
WM. CASHMORE
12G D.B. B.L. TOP
LEVER GUN
£l2/12/-
Cashmore 12G D.8.8.L. Top Lever
Gun. Cross-bolt action, steel barrels, left
choke, engine-turned bib, well figured walnut
stock, horn heelplate, Deeley and Edge Fore-
end, well finished, neatly engraved. Specially
proved for Nitro Powders.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion
Price .
£l2/12/-
Guns and Fishing Tackle Ground Floor, George Street
’Phone: M 2401
Oayand^ight
ANTHONY HORDERN
SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 c, GJ>.OJ


Lift the lid
MM
of that TRfASURf
box of WONDERS ►>
the UIIITED STATES
There is no limit to the variety
< f wonders you will see! Famous
cities vie with natural marvels.
San Francisco lures with the
Oriental glamour of China-
town! Los Angeles glitters with
the stars of Hollywood! Chi-
cago’s Loop and New York’s
Fifth Avenue are trails in for-
ests of skyscrapers!
Yosemite... Grand Canyon...
Niagara ... each in a different
way a colossal masterpiece.
En route to England, go via the
United States. The complete
coverage of American railways
enables you to leisurely visit
any number of fascinating
points, or to speed directly from
California to New York within
four days.
Let us help you plan your itin-
erary. First a voyage on a Mat-
son Liner through the pulsing
charm of the South Seas, via
Auckland, Suva, Pago Pago and
Honolulu to San Francisco.
Then your choice of carefree
routes to your Atlantic liner..*
and England.
This fascinating route is your
shortest one. But thirty-two
days from Sydney to England..*
replete with endless variety of
interesting experiences while
travelling swiftly yet comfort-
ably... at moderate cost.
May we help plan your itiner-
ary? Write or call for illustrat-
ed book.
American Railways
Travel and
Informationßureaa
12 Bridge St., Sydney
Telephone 87981 m $
®ll
m
% * «
« $*
wrn r
t? ::.
M* !> Si
- : : s ij
MHUm, : !>1
iSSg
mm ■ '<•
'' -
w. <« <■<■
S&S
Si*
Nf;
h
: ; i
m
5*
11
8#88?
LM
Ll{« :
I
I
IS*
I I k''
: a 11
■
*Q*T |§?g * i
* k*
** * * ' ~
: I
ii; i*
»m;:SiS:w
■ H
-::.■/( * «
'■ \ Vl v V/
mmmmm
*
tii
w
mmzi
HI
H
mmm
W
l k>
:
*¥y
S»¥SSS
SiSS
■ .
m
mm
$m
>?•>s**
S>y<gst
sssss^
■ . ■ ■■■■■■
Upper left New York’s Fifth
Avenue*—a winding trail in a
forest of sky-scrapers*
•
Upper right—San Francisco lures
with the Oriental glamour of China-
town and its many other foreign
settlements.
•
Lower right Great Salt Lake
crossed by transcontinental trains
a natural wonder on the jour-
ney east.
R9-2A


?ftictcfotA6\
Golf Shirts
5#
r
From every point of view—
material, fit and workman-
ship—here are Shirts far
superior to any you have yet
seen at this price. Two and
three-tone striped Cambric
Golf Shirts for Men; rein-
forced neckband and soft
collar to match.
Murdoch’s Special .
Value 5/3
10/9 Coat
Shirts ....
7/6
Poplin de Luxe Coat Shirts for
Men. Button front, long peak
attached collar. Plain shades of
Fawn or White with self stripes.
White, in sizes 14 to Fawn
in sizes I3J to 16.
9/6 Sports
Shirts....
6/6
Save three shillings! Men’s
Poplin de Luxe Sports Shirts,
large convertible collar and
breast pocket. Sizes 13| to 16.
1
Work
Shirts.
3/n
These are the Shirts for long
service! Men’s striped Oxford
Work Shirts, made as illustration,
with attached collar and breast
pocket. This is amazing value at
3/1 1.
We Pay Freight.
Kindly address letters to Desk “R’
Murdochs Ltd.
SYDNEY
“THE STORE THAT SERX r ES AUSTRALIA. 1
claim on our interest) lies in her name: a
jest which is not so infinite that repetition
cannot exhaust it.
As for Mr. Benenden! He is introduced
to us without apology as a “character”;
what the five towns would call a “card.”
Here he is, the great philosophic tobacco-
nist, mordant commentator on human affairs,
Three-quarter length, he is pictured behind
his counter, full of ripe talk on big busi-
ness, and heavily critical of the generation
which is satisfied with its “packet o’
gaspers.” Alas, his own talk, his own per-
sonality is as commonplace and as unindi-
vidual as that same “packet o’ gaspers.”
Mr. Benenden a character? Why he is a
bore, who is not even funny as a bore can
be. He is a crashing bore, as dreary as a
London fog. So, too, is Mr. Fred Mitty—
a bore with a loud voice: impossible to
explain his acceptance as a wag in any com-
pany, however beery.
With the commonplace pedestrian charac-
ters of his tale Priestley has greater suc-
cess. Sturdy little Miss Matfield, pathetic
little Smeeth, that little decomposing lecher
Harold Turgis (another attempt at the
Dickensian in nomenclature), these people
work out their miserable petty tragedies
convincingly enough. They are not ex-
hibited before us as 1 astonishing freaks of
comedy; their shoulders are not bowed
under the Dickens tradition; they live and
move, in their little way, like real men and
women. It is in their stories that the best
of Angel Pavement lies. The worst of it is,
unfortunately, that part of it which is most
ostentatiously flourished under our noses—
the precise, minute descriptions of cheap
rooms and cheap people (descriptions which
lead nowhere and which fail to serve as
atmosphere or background for the story),
the length and looseness of the construction,
the loud and pompous advertisement of
characters who turn out, after all, to be
dull and characterless in speech and action.
And. of course, cramped as he is by his new
self-imposed convention, Priestley’s wit,
once his great stand-by, is flagging, forced
and unnatural.
There remains only one hope. Let us
trust that Mr. Priestley will be so busy
writing subsequent best-sellers that he will
not have time to return to the study of
Dickens, and so will give himself an oppor-
tunity to develop a style of his own. Or—
wait. Perhaps he will re-read Dickens and
decide, like the excellent critic he is, that
here is something too precious to re-hash,
and (for the author of Angel Pavement )
much too difficult.
DENZIL BATCHELOR.
Fuddling Education
According to cables, Yale University has
decided to bury Latin and Greek, giving
preference to French, German, Italian and
Spanish. This is another proof that
America leads the world in education, un-
pleasant though it may be to admit it.
In our country when a boy or girl reaches
21, he or she is allowed to express an equal
opinion at the ballot-box with a professor
of economics. Yet in the schoolroom,
economics, so important in our life, is put
aside in the interests of compulsory Latin
and algebra. No one denies the charm of
Latin, but to make every high-school or
great-public-school pupil learn it is about
as sensible as making eveiy stoker buy a
sextant.
In a girl’s life, nothing is more important
than motherhood and the care of children.
Most girls become mothers a few years after
they leave school. Yet physiology and
principles of domestic science are about the
only things high-school girls are not
taught, except on urgent demand. Instead,
they are filled up, under the guise of “cul-
ture,” with a smattering of all varieties of
languages, dead and alive, that they cannot
possibly use, and made to study algebra
and higher mathematics in order that they
may be able to add up the butcher’s bill
in the days to come.
Education is in the hands of university
professors. Most of them have gone direct
from school to a university, and, after tak-
ing an odd course or so at a foreign address,
have returned to the seats of learning of
their own country. They know only their
own job of teaching their own pet subject.
Of course, there are exceptions, especially
oil the medical side, whose professors mix
with all classes and creeds daily. Mainly,
however, they live apart from the world
in an atmosphere of mediaeval moulting. I
mention these faults, not in malice, but to
emphasise that there is no hope of getting
education reform at the fountain head. It
will be accomplished only by urgent pres-
sure from without.
In his excellent book The Golden Key,
Dr. Neil McQueen pointed out how the
one per cent, of potential university
students in every secondary school dictate
the policy of teaching the other ninety-nine,
a state of affairs as deplorable as it is
absurd. Universities are hide-bound by
tradition, and the Australian ones, which
follow the British in everything but the pro-
duction of national leaders, teach things
not so much because they think they ought
to, but because those things are
England. The teaching here of book French
for instance, is still more silly than the
teaching of Latin. English people learn
French because it is possible to go to
Paris to lunch and be back in London for
tea. In other words, it is a business pro-
position for many of England’s commercial
men to be able to speak French. In Aus-
tralia, the only French 9999 people out of
every 10,000 will need is that Avez-vous-du-
pang variety aired on the one great event of
their lives, their trip to Europe.
In Java we have a market of 33 millions
at our doorstep. Java is three days’ sail
from Darwin and a few hours’ flight; Singa-
pore and the Malay States are a bit farther
off; China and Japan are much nearer to us
than France. The learning of Dutch and
Malay, not to mention Chinese and Japan-
ese, would be of infinitely more use to the
average Australian than French. Heaven
alone knows how much more use it would
be than Latin. But the possibility of any
of our universities ever substituting Dutch
for French, or Malay or Chinese for Latin
or Greek, is remote. That Dutch, Malay,
Chinese and Japanese don’t happen to be
much needed to-day doesn’t say they won’t
be after five or ten more years of air service
development.
I am not against the learning of Latin,
French, algebra and higher mathematics.
All 1 complain about is the compulsory
forcing of them down the necks of children
to the exclusion of subjects more useful and
just as “cultural.”
DOUBLE GRADUATE.
A Satchel of Books
Paradise, Ltd., by Florence A. Kilpatrick
(Hodder and Stoughton; 7s. 6d. net). Light-
fantastic stuff about ladies who set out with
a woman-hater in search of South American
treasure and are decoyed by a naughty
hidalgo who rules a secret kingdom of dumb
slaves. About as convincing as blue beer.
Simple Peter Gradd, by E. Phillips Oppen-
hciin (Hodder and Stoughton; Dymocks;
7s. fid. net). Capital going-a-journey stuff.
Peter, having slaved into the forties for a
grasping and heartless and nagging family,
inherits a fortune, and has the good sense
to give his people a share of it and set forth
alone to enjoy life with the rest. His quite
natural innocence attracts the ladies, and
they help him to find what he seeks. Written
with plenty of humor.
Jungle Jest, by Talbot Mundy (Hutchin-
son). Another patriotic one about the
British in India, Raj-bahadur King (“con-
sidered the equal of viceroys in all except
rank and greater than any viceroy in the
hearts of men”) ; King, minor; the son o’
grand old Mohammed Babar (who becomes
King minor’s plighted “man” in the first
chapter), and unlimited bravery, bloodshed
and baseness. _ Also a modicum of bathos.
The writing is exceptionally good for this
class of breathless, formless work.
Death in Tiger Valley, by Reginald Camp-
bell (Hodder and Stoughton; 7s. 6d net).
A bet made between two Englishmen on
which of them will shoot the tigress that
has started killing in their Siamese jungle
valley breeds hatred between them that inten-
sifies to the point of murder. The tenseness
of the situation and the convincing way in
which the author conveys the horror of the
jungle are so vivid that the happy ending
comes as a flop. But the general thrill is
uncommonly gripping.
The Moth of Holiness, by Paul Bloomfield
(John Lane; 7s. 6d. net), has the shadowiest
of themes. Oliver marries Kate, whom, he
really love and who doesn’t get on
with his old housekeeper or his cat, Ali, so
he runs away with Stella, and their friends,
being steeped in hypocrisy (Burton’s “moth
of holiness”), decide regretfully to ostracise
them. The dialogue is bright and often
witty in its self-conscious, sophisticated
upper middle-class London way, and there
is a great deal of it. The characters don’t
stand out clearly, but then they wouldn’t in
life. They are much too well-bred to be
demonstrative. The elopement and Esme’s
visit to the lovers in wdiieh he explains the
family attitude are masterpieces of reticence.
Rearguard, by Compton Pakenham (Chap-
man and Hall 5 Roycroft; 7s. 6d. ), is a novel of
disintegration—the effects of Shanghai life on
English people of the military-aristocracy
type, accentuated by the hope the head of
the household has of inheriting a baronetcy.
An Australian soldier who appears towards
the tired end is merely a familiar product of
Langdale’s own land tricked out In a Digger
hat. Australians do not say “Cully,” “Oi’ve
bought this shack for a week,” “An’ I sye
you won’t,” “A downy bird, I am ai/d don’t
make no mistake,” or “No blinkin’ ’ard
feelin’s.” Anyone who wants to present an
unpleasant Australian has a lovely range to
choose from; such beautiful examples of
humanity that it is a crime in Australian
writers to let them run about unused, but
their address is not the East End, and
neither is their idiom. But this is an unim-
portant point. Rearguard is an admirable
piece of fiction.
And a Little Verse
T.-ll-n-e-h-e-o-n.
What would our luncheon do without its e?
Look at it! “lunchon”—pitiful to see:
Lamb without mint sauce, bubbleless cham-
pagne,
Salad undressed and strawberries on the
wane.
Nude salmon with the mayonnaise forgot;
Cold soup, cheap cheese... .and you can have
the lot!
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
THE LAST DAY.
AH night the stranger stars swung low
like silver flames in a dark room
hung above and hung below
with veils of silence. Like the tomb
I thought the world was, where none spoke,
man or bird or moving wind;
no heart spoke to heart its kind.
And I among the dead awoke,
and knew on all our tribes the doom
had fallen, and I rose and saw
tall Azrael stood among the stars,
points of the unsheathed scimitars
of the great army of the Law.
Who should speak now for all the dead
silent and imprison-ed,
the senses closed, the voices mute?
God, wearied of our rout and bruit
our vaunting boasts, our rumored wars
our changeless sins, let down His bars’
set Death on the embattled stars
LONDON.
D. P. MCGUIRE.
Answers to Correspondents.
A o notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mi tied; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
A.A.S.: Pleasant rhyming, no more....
Currajong: Blank verse needs more meat; “Tree-
lovers” neat, but ancient.... Wcllwisher: Hopeless
at that length Rose V., M.A.T., J.D.R.: Lost in
tlie crowd... .R. Lea: Sonnet form doesn’t suit the
purpose... .H-A.A.: Its simplicity won it a second
reading Douglas H.: A poor job H.W.: A
better one; but still not g00d... .G.E.D.: Promising.
Don’t take out all the character by trying to make it
too smooth.... .E.N.C.: That method takes too much
space 1.J.H.: A little merit in it G.W.R.S.:
Talk about flaming youth! This is a bush-fire.
. ...A.V.H.: Nothing worth lifting from that nest.
J.B.: Found the murder in the restaurant dull.
. ...W.J.M.: Not an idea in the 10t... .M.M.C.; Too
bad, too bad:—
Well, to be a poet I can only try
To be a credit to Australia,
But editors off the handle fly
At me a striving failure.
....T.H.R. (Q.) : Thanks; but we don’t reprint....
T.H.R. (W.A.): Nice thing; but mend the tenses
in the first stanza... .J.H.R.: Second stanza of “Un-
rest” drops to commonplace. Get to it.... Magpie:
Rummaty-rummaty-rum. And, of course, nothing
fresh to say Herbert T.: No music in it ; and
some dreadful lines M.J.C.: Pretty fair jingle.
There was poetry to be made out of it ; but you
miss-that... .T.T.R.: Everything quite correct; but
with nothing to say.. . .Rosalie: It all sounds very
young... .Frank M.: Delighted to meet the gentleman
who could smile
Because his dear mum
Could leap and laugh and run.
. ...Geolin: The track is too well worn....
Douglas W.: Some good lines, overwhelmed by com-
monplace... .C.T.P.: The last stanza should be either
dropped or greatly improved.... Oeebee: If perfect
rhymes made poetry, you’d be the laureate... .C.D.:
Anyway, The B.’s glad you heaped coals on the
brute’s head.... Robert M.: Your philosophy’s good;
so we won’t drag up the poetry.... Flotsam: The
toast is a near-winner... .L.M.8.: Sweetly sung; but
hackneyed theme Gertrude S.: Spoiled by the
ending.... Stein B.: Very pleasant, very ansemie. x
. ...A.G.: You rhyme with facility, but there’s no
snap in it.... J.P.L.: Mournful effort, only relieved
by the attempt to rhyme “slumber” with “yonder.”
.... J.A.P.: No space for long-drawn-out narrative
verse these times... .E.M.L.: Thanks, but the topic’s
played out... .L.A.S.: Doesn’t make the grade....
J. J.M.: It has a sporting chance.... Ico: Not simply
a question whether it’s good enough to print; it’s
a question of space to print it. There never was
a time when contributors had so much to say.
Best we can do is to choose well and chop hard ..
R.N.C.: You typed that “offhand”! Well, type
some more so we may make up our mind about you.
...'.Bertha O.: Some nice lines. From sd. to Bd.
a line... .Vus: Nothing to back up the old bush-
stage, props... .Yodi Ela: Afraid you haven’t been
following it very carefully. The B. has been urging
that the maintenance of these industries must be
kept in mind even in fixing protectionist duties....
Edna O.: Red roses, crystal streams, dead loves,
the song of birds—oh, do some real thinking!....
K. J.: Unreal... .Gordon T.: Good stuff; sorry
over-supplied in that line. Should easily find a
market elsewhere... .John L.: Very nearly... .F.lv.:
Intentions good ; everything else horrible.... H. 1.:
Afraid you’ll never cure the depression with your
pencil.... Roy C.: Artificial; and the similes are
threadbare.... J.M.H.: Lazy, cantering lines which
come hack from the reader with this note:—
Tuppence a column, and, skittish or solemn,
They’re not worth the time and the trouble to
doll ’em.
. ...K.C.M.: Sounds as though you’ve got one eye
on nature and the other on the spring meetings....
Francis John: Well, you don’t get things much
for’arder, do you?. K. 8.: “Sandalwood” has
merit; but we don’t encourage the form.... Mary
B. : A bad lot, Half-cas’ Joe, no doubt; but now
he’s dead, why rake up a bit of stolen tobacco to
use against him?....M.A.W.: Echo of things you
have read. No hope that way. .. .Bob F.: Ditto... .
C. : Oh yes, we could burn them ; but what about
your own cliip-heater?... .Melba: Watch your ear.
“Laid —paved” !... .Hans R.: Nice, cheerful thing
to greet us on a spring morning!... .F.L.S.:
“Sounds” nearly gets through... .J.L.S.: Some pain-
ful descents into prose; and prose is none the less
prose for being sawn into stove lengths.... J.W.:
The sestet is muddy .8.8., J.W.N., Fredo: Hope
for you a11....K.K.: Good, except for “marvellous”
and “tremendous.” Find two others... .E.E.: The
hound must have also chewed the p10t.... J.P.:
Brush up your spelling for a start... .R.C.G.: Plenty
of smoke but no fire. E.T.: Turned “The Drover’s
Mate” adrift— .E.G.: Unattractive G.D.S.: “Sir
Roland lay in his coffin.” Transferred to w.p.b
S.M.: Valueless... .5.C.0.J.: Worth a par G. 5.8.:
Handed Pak Sing over to office executioner
J.F.N.: It won’t carry our brand... .J.E.8.: Finishes
lamely... .E.M.E.: Off our beat... .C.A.S.: One of a
crop of similar stories that have shot up lately—
why, only the writers know... .C.K.W,: Improbable.
E. J.: Pointless... .W.R.A.: Could have been
done a lot better... .A.L.R.: Wordy.... P.L.: That
pawnbroker is taken in with the same trick at least
twice a week... .G.M.A.: Sentimental swagman unreal.
... .R.J.8.: Grandma who pinched her grand-daughter’s
bloke has figured in other tales... .T.K.: A dull lot
of cattle-duffers... .R.C.: No Cohen and Kelly
humor wanted here... .L.L.: Too far afield and too
10ng... .M.W.M.: All that fuss over a ruined Sunday
roast!... .A.J.T.: Ninety-nine per cent, of prospectors
are looking for gold, not gore S.A.: Piek-and-
shovel men, are they? Then why their habit of
speaking in words of seven or eight syllables?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.M.G.: Both old-age pensioners.. . .S.T. : It’s not
Australian... .R.M.T.: Needs a lot of brushing up
S. Might find an opening elsewhere J.II. :You
don’t shine as a caricaturist... .W. 8.: Weak in wash
and line... .C.W.D.: You have given them telegraph-
poles for legs T.S.: Suppose there’s a point in it
somewhere, but it’s not visible to us L.M.: Don’t
draw hands as if they were meathooks... .C.E.A.:
Decorative, but the figures are wooden... .W.H.:
Sketch has a sort of appeal, but jest is senile....
T. They look as if they had been drawn with "a
stick of liquorice C.8.K.: Heavy-handed art and
wheezes that don’t amuse.. . .J.L.Y.: What are you
trying to palm off as a horse? N.S.: All your
characters seem to have the stomach-ache... .W.F.M.:
Have never seen an abo. wearing a busby—that’s
if it is a busby P. 5.11.: A gay and easy line
coupled with a chestnut A.J.: Promising
F.K.M.D.: “Would we care to buy an illustrated
history of the flags of the world”? No.


fasgtfasgt
fasgt
,;;C^
#
☆
XfEi
Brandy
• SSt»PEtT & SONS MMf
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
'r •
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD#


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2695.
October 7, 1931.
CREDITS—AND DEBITS.
"Federral Ministers are again strongly pressing the Commonwealth and private banks to extend further credits for Government services.”
"The Primary Producers’ Bank has gone into voluntary liquidation. Shareholders will lose all their paid-up capital.”
“Why do you cry, ladies?”
"Somebody extended credits with our money, sir. "


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months , £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
0 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth , New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4os. To all other
places: Id. for 2os.
RATES OF EXCHANGE.
Among the shoals and rocks it is hard to
say which way we should go; but at least
we shall be able to judge better if we get
at the real meaning of the forces which drag
us hither and thither.
Exchange, perhaps, is the most urgent
question of the moment. Now, here, at the
outset, three forces arc at work. We are
(1) a borrowing, (2) an exporting and (3)
an importing country. During the past nine
months every £lOO we have paid to our
foreign creditors has cost us about £l3O.
Similarly every £lOO we have paid the
people from whom we have bought foreign
supplies has cost us £l3O. On the other
hand, for wool and wheat and metals which
have been worth £lOO abroad we have re-
ceived £l3O. To meet our commitments
abroad (that is, to pay our interest bill
and for our imports) we must export about
30 millions more than we import in a year.
Therefore, on the face of it, our interests
as an exporter are larger than our interests
as an importer. From that point of view
it is to our advantage that the exchange
should be against us. If exchange were at
par we should have to export 130 millions
of staples to buy 100 millions of imports and
pay 30 millions of interest. But if the Eng-
lish £lOO were worth £l2O Australian, then
we should have to export staples worth iti
Australia 156 millions to do it, while the
100 millions of imports (foreign value)
would cost us 120 millions of our staples
(Australian value). With the 20 per cent,
exchange our exporters would thus get 26
millions more than if exchange were at par,
and our importers would have to pay 20
millions more. It looks, then, as though,
on these supposititious trading figures, Aus-
tralia would be 6 millions to the good
through the maintenance of a 20 per cent,
exchange against us.
If the people who received the 26 mil-
lions paid out the 20 millions, matters would
be simplified: we might say that, since the
primary producers benefited, those badly-
treated people deserved all the difference.
But unfortunately the position is not so
easy. It is possible that the people who
get the 26 millions are able to pocket
almost the whole of it, while those who pay
out the 20 millions are unable to pass on
any substantial part of it. And, since very
much of the imports in these days is the
raw material of Australian industries, it
follows that exchange amounts to a tax on
secondary industries and a bonus to the
primary industries—some of this bonus paid
bv the community, but more of it by the
secondary industries.
Now, it is quite true that the primary
industries must be assisted. But it is not
true that the assistance must be at the
expense of the secondary industries. Above
all, taxation, whether for the purpose of
paying the dole or subsidising the farmer,
ought not to “go blind”; yet that is pre-
cisely what the exchange tax on imports
does. It is charged equally whether the
goods are raw materials for use in essential
Australian industries and not procurable in
Australia, or manufactured goods which
might, with a little tariff encouragement, be
produced in Australia, and which are there-
fore fair subjects for protective duties. It
assaults every principle of sound taxation.
And, anyway, good or bad, it is a backstairs
sort both of taxation and of bonus-assist-
ance, and all the more questionable because
not imposed or granted by any constituted
authority.
For most of this year, as we have seen,
the rate has been about £l3O Australian
for £lOO English. Now that the £ English
has depreciated in relation to the U.S.A. $
about as much as our £ had depreciated in
relation to the £ English, the further ques-
tion arises whether exchange between the
£ Australian and English ought not to be at
par or thereabouts. The real point seems to
be whether the £ Australian has further
depreciated in relation to the dollar. Is
there any reason why our £ should not buy
as much in New York or San Francisco to-
day as it did three months ago? If there
is, then, instead of making the small pro-
gress that we thought we had made as the
result of the Premiers’ Plan, we have actu-
ally slipped back further. If there is not,
then either we paid far too little exchange
on London before, or we are paying far
too much now. Yet it does not follow that,
because the £ English has depreciated in
relation to the dollar as much as we had
depreciated in relation to the £ English, we
should therefore be now absolutely on par
with London. We cannot be, or expect to
be, there until we have established credits
in London to take charge of all the demands
likely to be made upon them. In other
words, until our exports comfortably balance
our imports and debt charges, and until also
our national revenue balances our national
expenditure. What rate should be main-
tained is a matter for the figures to
decide. Whether this section will be
advantaged or that section disadvantaged
by any movement is not a matter for
consideration. It is not for those who
fix these rates to say whether Freetrade
and the development of the primary in-
dustries or Protection and the development
of the secondary industries is the right
policy. Still less is it for them to put
measures into effect for the furtherance of
one of those policies.
We reach, then, these conclusions. It
would be to our advantage to have ex-
change against us; but because a high rate
against us favors one industrial section at
the expense of another, a high rate ought
not to be arbitrarily maintained by the
banks; and for the same reason the banks
should not be swayed by fiscal policies in
deciding whether and when exchange should
be reduced.
THE DOUGLAS SOCIAL CREDIT
PLAN.
There has been a rush of letters on the
Douglas Social Credit plan, mostly, of
course, in defence. The enthusiasm of its
supporters is admirable. As nothing matters
but to got at the truth, the best method may
be to dig out what seem to be the most
significant remarks of various correspond-
ents and add comments upon them.
The first and infinitely the most important
point is whether it is true that under the
present system the world can never buy all
of what it produces. If this cannot be main-
tained, then the whole case for the plan
collapses. Let J. T. Smith, of Melbourne,
put this proposition:—
The Bulletin’s reply that money equal to the
costs of the raw materials and plant used in the
factory making goods for sale to the public is
simultaneously being paid out by the other indus-
tries is quite untenable. No industry is paying out
as wages, salaries or dividends as much money as
the price of its product. For example, consider a
factory which distributes, say, £5OO in a week as
wages and salaries and dividends, and that the price
of its products, including the cost of the raw
materials and plant used, is £lOOO. Now this
deficiency of £5O-0 in purchasing power cannot be
made up on the assumption that other industries are
paying away £5OO in the manufacture of more raw
materials and plant, because the facts are that
these industries, like the one to which they sell
their product, pay away only a portion of their
costs as wages, salaries, etc., and therefore they
would be paying away only, say, £3oo—something
under £5O0 —in the manufacture of similar products
to those costing the other industry the sum of £5OO.
In reply:—
Of course it is true that when a manufacturer
makes 1000 loaves of bread he does not pay out in
wages and for raw materials as much as he charges
for 1000 loaves. He has to use plant and add
something for profit and so-called profit. But some-
body else is paying for the making of other plant;
and that money is available to buy some of the
loaves. So also the profit which the bread-manu-
facturer makes to-day will be available to buy
bread and plant and other things to-morrow. Not
a penny of the money he collects is wasted. If it
is not available for buying things to-day, it is
available to-morrow, and it would be a disastrous
thing if it were all available to-day. Only by the
accumulation of profits anid so-called profits "is it
possible to buy new and better plant and finance
new industries.
It doesn’t matter to the community’s purchasing-
power whether an industry “is paying out as wages,
salaries or dividends as much as the price of its
product.” It is “the price of its product” which is
available for circulation—the total price; every
penny which the breadmaker collects is available for
spending and will be spent. And what he collects
are not the earnings only of to-day, but some of
the retained earnings of yesterday; in the same way
some of the retained earnings of to-day will be
spent to-morrow.
But, anyhow, the Douglas people say,
the plant paid for out of profits really be-
longs to the community. Major Douglas
is quoted as saying:—
“Although the unregulated system of credit-issue
and price-making distributes purchasing-power both
in respect of capital production (tools, factories,
intermediate products) and ultimate products (neces-
saries, services, amenities), it takes back, in the
prices of ultimate products only, practically the
whole of this purchasing-power, leaving the com-
munity, considered as a permanent institution, in the
position of having bought both plant and the pro-
duct, but having got delivery— i.e., control—only of
the product.”
As to which:—
For years the public paid sixpence for its Bulletin
and profit was put aside and used to buy new
plant; with that plant it was found possible to
produce the “Woman’s Mirror” and the “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly.” So, it is claimed, the public paid for
the plant which prints the “Woman’s Mirror,” and
doesn’t own it. But it got the “Mirror,” and all
the people whom the “Mirror” employs got work
and wages, and the people who make its ink and
its paper and its wire and its power got work and
wages, and how they would have got them if profits
had not been thus put by, it is not easy to see.
The profit might have been spent at once; but
it was none the less spent because it was retained
and spent later. And it is surely plain that the
community’s purchasing power is now much increased
by reason of the retaining of profit in the first
place—profit that was retained and used to establish
a new industry.
Then, as to credits, Robert Dawson
writes:—
The Bulletin disputes that bank credit is created
out of nothing and claims that the banks lend only
the money deposited with them. Reginald McKenna,
the eminent banker, disposes of that. He says
(“Post-war Banking Policy”): “The banks create
and destroy money. Every bank loan or bank pur-
chase creates a deposit and every repayment of a
loan or bank sale destroys a deposit.”
To which The Bulletin says:—
It never was alleged here that banks lend only what
they borrow. What this paper did say was that they
can only lend on the strength of what they borrow
or themselves possess. When they make a loan to
Brown, it is possible that Jones, who has sold
something to Brown, will accept Brown’s cheque
and pay it into his account, it may be at the same
bank; on the other hand he may want cash. The
same Reginald McKenna says: “Traders sometimes
assume that banks have an unlimited power of
making advances. They forget that every advance
made by a bank comes out of the bank’s cash
resources” (same “Post-war Banking Policy,” p. 8).
In a more general way L. F. Roberts
writes:—
Under present conditions it is obvious that the
majority of the unemployed over the age of 45
years can never hope to obtain anything but casual
employment. Why should the wells of credit dry
up when there is an abundance of goods available?
We have to-day the paradox of unlimited abundance
of commodities and no credit available to purchase
them. Surely to-day’s tragedy should make us think
seriously of some form of consumer credit if only to
shift our surplus stocks. The more goods there are
for sale, the smaller proportion of those goods the
consumer is able to purchase. This is the state in
which we are living.
And in reply to that:—
It is not obvious that the majority of the middle-
aged unemployed will never get regular employment
again; nor is it obvious that a system of consumer
credits would help. The dole is a system of consumer
credits, and instead of helping there is good reason
to fear that it is greatly retarding re-employment.
Producer credits are a very different matter.
Reginald McKenna, whom the Douglas plan advocates
are fond of quoting, has something to say on this
matter, too. “There is a distinct limit,” he says,
“to the justifiable creation even of productive credits.
As soon as there is sufficient money to carry the
full volume of production of which the nation is
capable, no more should be created, and the repay-
ment of past loans should balance the extension of
new ones.... But this expansion of’credit [for pro-
duction] is indispensable to the proper functioning
of our commercial system, and is imperatively needed
when trade is depressed and unemployment general.”
And in another place, discussing “The Problem of
Unemployment,” he says: “What is the remedy?
There is only one, which we must face with all the
determination and resolution at our command. We
must reduce expenditure to the utmost limit con-
sistent with our contractual obligations and the supply
of indispensable services. If we do so now we shall
quickly recover our national earning power.... The
ideal of economy, both in public and private affairs,
is alluring and popular, but the practice is quite
another matter. It is difficult, often hateful, and
certainly never popular. But to-day, looking at our
decline in revenue, the state of our trade and the
dangers which confront us, we have no choice. I
have no hesitation in saying that, whatever the
difficulties, the strictest economy in our national
expenditure has become the first and most imperative
necessity of our time.”
“THE CASE FOR WESTRALIA.”
Dear Bulletin, —I read with interest
(favorable in spots) the tale of E. H. B.
Lefroy (B. 23/9/’3l) about the wrongs of
Westralia, and how it suffers under Federa-
tion, and the tariff, and the dumping habits
of the Eastern States. Westralia came into
the union by a referendum vote of more
than two in favor to one against, so it came
in more enthusiastically than either N. S.
Wales or Queensland. The pro-Federation
majority (25,109) was, despite the small
population, the largest among the States,
barring those of Victoria and S. Australia.
It was urged on its career by a Westralian
—its “noblest son,” John Forrest. It is
pleaded that the union was carried by
“newcomers on the goldfields,” but these
newcomers and their sons and daughters
would probably vote the same way now if
the question came up again. It will be hard
to bring it up in a definite way, unless the
secessionists are honest and say whether
they intend secession and repudiation to go
together. The present position is that West-
ralia has, in proportion to its population,
the biggest debt on earth or on record.
The Commonwealth has made itself respon-
sible. for this. There is no prospect of
acquiring any appreciable quantity more
debt. So it is apparently proposed that
Westralia should get out by a process of
secession and leave its unpaid accounts be-
hind it—in other words, be an absconding
debtor. The secessionists don’t say that
repudiation will be the great cash benefit
attached to their disruption policy, for it
would be a nasty thing to put into words,
but they don’t say anything else.
The people who poured into Westralia
in the golden days—the “newcomers” who
put some movement into the atmosphere
and, according to Mr. Lefroy, made Federa-
tion possible—were to a great extent Pro-
tectionists from Victoria and South Aus-
tralia. It is alleged by the old identities
that these other people have so wholly
changed their faith that they are now willing
to break the Commonwealth to pieces for
the sake of Freetrade or Low-Tariffism or
whatever they may choose to call it. The
matter might be put to the test if Messrs.
Lefroy and Co. would state clearly that their
policy involves no profitable swindle either
of the public creditor or of the Common-
wealth (consisting of five States after West-
ralia’s departure) which has backed West-
ralia’s promissory notes. The secessionists
might also sketch out some plan by which
Westralia will resume its liabilities when it
leaves.
Westralia’s luck hasn’t been wholly bad
while under the blessing of Protection. Mr.
Lefroy holds that Freetrade is the real
blessing (in other words, that Codlin is the
friend and not Short), and he is entitled to
his opinion even if it is foolish and anti-
quated, but it would be better if he offered
some evidence. In Westralia the wages in
secondary industries (factories) are the
second highest in the Commonwealth, the
latest figures for a year being as follows:
N.S.W. ..£222 13 5 Queensland .. £2ll 16 0
Westralia .. 222 6 5 Victoria .. 197 1 4
S. Australia 213 12 6 Tasmania .. 195 16 3
Then the number of unemployed in the big
State was below the average, according to
the latest return (June, 1931). The percent-
age interest rate earned by its railways
(1929-30) was the highest in the Common-
wealth, that of Victoria excepted. The
direct taxation levied on its people is £4 4s.
lOd. per head per annum against an average
of £5 2s. 7d., and is lower than that of any
other State save Victoria. Yet the total State
revenue, including grants from the Com-
monwealth, is larger per head than that of
any other State. The secessionists reckon that
this represents bitter oppression and should
be put right, though what better they can do
for the people except by teaching them to
rob their creditors and their fellow-Aus-
tralians is not clear.
Mr. Lefroy advocates a sort of league of
three units,' Maoriland, Westralia and All
the Rest of Australia, but why distant
Maoriland should interfere in his family row
with the other States it is impossible to say.
Ho alleges that all the capitals in eastern
Australia are within 700 miles of Canberra
as the fly crows, while Perth suffers the
special wrong of being 2200 miles away.
Well, a great many people are further from
Canberra than that and don’t want to tear
up a Commonwealth because of it. Seces-
sion won’t bring the two places any closer
Vancouver (or Victoria) is more than 2200
miles from Ottawa, and Sacramento is
further than that from Washington; but the
people of British Columbia and California
put up with it, and don’t sob bittei’ly over
the inevitable. “This is a new country,”
says Mr. Lefroy, “and its development
should be worked out by people on the
spot.” But how old is a countiy before it
ceases to be new, and what exactly is a
spot? If it is meant that the people at
Perth have an indefeasible right to govern
those at Wyndham, which is almost as
remote from Perth as Canberra is, then it
is rather reminiscent of the Arkansas gentle-
man’s definition of freedom: “The rig?
of every man to wallop his own nigger.”
It is rather a pity that Westralian gent,
men of the old school should have becoi
excited with the desire to burst up t!
nation, and the uniform defence system a:
postal system, and the uniform security f
the public debt, for nothing more than
sketchy grievance about the tariff. Wh
Poland or Greece or Hungary broke aw:
from its old-time oppressor it had a tale
tell which was understandable. There
something rather old-fashioned and out-o
date about this enthusiasm for an Englif
political doctrine which England itself
begins to regard as a dud, and there is every
reason to doubt if the majority of West-
ralians don’t feel the same way.—Yours, etc.
James Edmond.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The British Crash and the Basic Wage.
For two years we have been trying to find
an easy way out of our troubles. We are
still trying. It is true that in some details
we have faced up to the situation more or
less: we have made a few cuts in salaries
and wages, and in interest charges, and so
on. But we are still many millions a year
from striking a balance; and we are ready
to grab at any excuse for avoiding the un-
pleasant things which the case still calls for.
It is hardly credible that the great mis-
fortune which overtook Britain the other
day should have been hailed with enthu-
siasm and joy as a blessing to us; but in
our eagerness to grasp at any straw, actu-
ally it was so hailed. The idea in many
quarters seemed to be that in some way or
other Britain had brought off a grand coup.
The drab fact was that, after long years of
fight for her sterling, she had been forced
to give up the struggle, and presently had
seen her £ quoted at a serious discount in
most other countries of the world. It is true
that some of those countries had devalued
their currency; Britain had set out to main-
tain the old standard, holding herself equal
in that respect with the United States, and
had failed. At one time the Central Reserve
Bank of the world, she had so lost the con-
fidence of the nations that at last gold pay-
ments had to be stopped.
From the international point of view it
was a confession of bankruptcy; and it is
our democracy that will have to answer the
charge of being responsible for it. The men
who have done the great harm to. the
nation—who have gone far in undermining
its very foundations—are not the poor fud-
dled creatures who join in so-called Com-
munist processions and constitute basher
gangs: they are men whose best known
Australian representatives have been the
late Justice Higgins, of the High Court, and
Piddington, of N. S. Wales; men who
firmly established the basic wage, with its
suicidal implication that what a man earn-
is of no national consequence—that his and


his family’s needs, and not his earnings,
should govern his wages.
The operation of such a principle, if made
wide enough, must inevitably ruin any
nation. A nation is a concourse of many
businesses; and a principle which would ruin
each single business must as inevitably ruin
a nation —it is only a matter of taking a
little longer to do it. Stalin was brought
face to face with this undodgeable fact soon
after the Five-year Plan had got into its
stride in Russia. He loosed his thunders
against it. The stupidity had to stop, he and
his council ordered. The idea that wages
could be governed by needs or supposed
needs was, they said, roften to the core;
only production could be a safe basis. In
Britain they were able to carry on a little
while longer. There was there a vast accu-
mulation of wealth, some of it owned by
the people of the country, much of it by
the people of other countries. At first
slowly, then more rapidly, these great re-
serves were drawn upon to maintain the
fiction that a nation can be paid whether
it earns what it is paid or not; for the dole
is merely an amplification of the basic wage.
What could happen but the final alarm of
the owners? What could happen but a final
withdrawal or attempted withdrawal of their
capital?
»
John Bull Changes Countenance.
WANTED, a. Financial Policy suited for a nation
which has so much money invested abroad that it
has received as much as £504,000,000 in a year, or
over £lO per inhabitant, from its external debtors.
ALSO, one suited for a nation which owes so much
money abroad that it has to pay about £35,000,000
in a year, or over £5 per inhabitant, to its external
creditors. Any academic person who tries to win
both prizes by professing to have a cure-all which
will serve equally well in both cases will be dis-
qualified.—Advertisement which should appear in
every paper.
The difference between the financial situa-
tion of the Briton and the Australian in this
one respect was about 30s. a week for
every family of five, which is much the
same as the difference in the Christmas
climate of their respective countries, or
between the kind of outfit required for a
trip to Central Australia and one to Central
England. In 1929 Britain had £716,000,000
of visible exports and £1,220,000,000 worth
of imports, while Australia had £143,000,000
of imports and £144,000.000 of exports. But
whereas one country had the maximum
income from savings invested abroad and
from work done abroad, the other owed over
35 millions for interest, etc., payable that
year. The frequent and familiar person who
says that Australia should be wise and
imitate Free trade Britain never by any
chance shows how Australia can do it and
pay its debts. Even if oversea debts were
successfully repudiated, that wouldn’t bring
us in an income from oversea debtors, such
as Britain has, for they can’t be created by
Acts of Parliament.
In 1929 Britain collected £504,000,000
income from investments and businesses
abroad. In 1930 the figure was down all of
a sudden to £431,000,000. When the returns
for 1931 are available John Bull’s comfort-
able annuity may be down to half that
amount, or it may even be down to nothing
at all if John has become a debtor in the
aggregate instead of being a creditor. That
sort, of thing has happened before. The
position is that of a man who has taken
life easily because his earnings were largely
supplemented by an annuity. When the
annuity vanishes from one cause or another
he realises that, to be honest, he must earn
more and spend less, even if he has to sacri-
fice his principles while doing so. J. Bull
realises that he can’t afford the luxury of
so many idle factories and so many hun-
dreds of thousands of idle people as he did
when his foreign debtors, including Lang,
paid up more liberally. If the finding of
work to keep his factories and “factory
ands” busy necessitates a tariff that bangs
Ihe door pretty hard on competition, John
Bull holds that it is better to be called a
Protectionist than to be a defaulting
swindler. '
But Protection in England doesn’t of neces-
sity mean exactly the same thing as Protec-
tion in Australia. There is no reason why
it should. It is quite possible that a 20 per
cent, duty might give the British pei’son the
practical monopoly of his home market,
where a duty of 40 per cent, would be insuf-
ficient here unless a lot of industrial Courts
and strike-making organisations were first
wiped out of existence.
*
Effects of the British Crisis on
Australia.
Questions pout- in, especially upon the Service
Department, with regard to the British crisis and
i's reactions on Australia. The more significant are
brought together here.
Shall we get more for our wheat and
wool; and why? If more, will it be real
money?
For every £lOO which overseas buyers
Imve been paying we have been getting
£l3O in Australian money. The English £1
"'as worth 124.21 francs during these
months, but last week was worth only about
9« francs. Thus the French woolbuyer,
competing with the Yorkshireman. could
afford to bid 124 francs for what he had
previously bid 97—an advance of approxi-
mately 22 per cent.; and Yorkshire was
bound to bid as high. The advance would
be paid in Australian money with the rest
of the price.
Shall we have to pay Britain more for
what we buy there?
Britain’s position is much the same now
as Australia’s has been for a year past; our
£1 was depreciated, and so now is England’s.
The Australian exporter—of wool, for ex-
ample—has had “the benefit of the ex-
change.” Now the English exporter will
get it if he ships to countries where the
English £1 is worth less than it was —
France, for instance. The English exporter
will get from the French buyer 124 francs
for what he previously got about 97 francs;
and if his costs don’t go up he will thus be
able to cut his prices. London-Australian
exchange has not, however, been affected;
therefore, so far as prices arc governed by
exchange, England cannot afford to sell
for less to Australia, although we might
share in a general reduction of prices. On
the other hand England must now pay more
in its own money for its imports, just as
Australia has been doing; this will put up
the price of much of England’s raw
materials (wool, for example) and may put
up the cost of living and hence wages. But
with inflation there is always a lag in
wages. With a fall in London-Australian
exchange, we should get our British goods
for less; but even that gain may be neutral-
ised.
Shall wc have to pay more for imports
from foreign countriesf Shall we get more
for our exports?
If we paid £lOO in London it would, on
recent rates, cost us £l3O here. But the £1 in
London would now be worth only about
$3.85 in New York as compared with the
$4.86 par rate. So long, therefore, as the
London-Australian rate is not altered, it
will cost us more to pay for goods in the
U.S.A. or other foreign countries where the
£ English has depreciated. Thus £lOO pay-
able in London costs us £l3O, and £lOO
English is worth £79 in New York; so that
our £l3O will buy only £79 worth of goods
in New York. On the other hand, as we
have seen in connection with wool, we shall
get (have, in fact, been getting) more from
foreign countries which make settlements
with us through London.
As gold is no longer the standard in Eng-
land, what will the effect be on Australian
goldmines?
It is not tine that gold is no longer the
standard in England; sterling—that is, the
English £l—has slipped off the standard.
That gold is still the standard is shown by
the fact that the £1 is quoted in terms of
currencies which are still on the standard—
the U.S.A. and France, for instance. So also
gold, which ordinarily is£4 4s. lid. per ounce
pure, is now worth in English paper money
about £5 Bs. Gold is a commodity, like other
metals; and its value in English £’s has
risen in about the same proportion as other
commodities. Thus the effect on Australian
goldmining will be the same as on evei-y
other sort of mining; we shall get more for
our produqt in depreciated English £’s.
One immediate consequence is that at
Broken Hill the South and Zinc Corp. have
gone back to full-time work.
*
The Tin Gods' of Taxation.
State income tax paid during the financial
year is a statutory deduction from income
taxable by the Commonwealth. In addi-
tion to their ordinary income taxes, N. S.
Wales, Victoria and Queensland are skin-
ning incomes to provide work and doles for
the unemployed (a great deal of dole in
N. S. Wales and very little work), and in
regard to salaries and wages their imposts
represent income taxation in its crudest and
most oppressive form, a tax on the gross.
But because they were called, not income
taxes, but unemployment-relief taxes, the
Federal Commissioner of Taxation—the
gentleman who has demanded sales tax
on trams manufactured by the Mel-
bourne Tramway Board, a State institution,
for its own lines—announced that the
department would not allow amounts paid
in respect of them as deductions. This
attitude was characteristically expressed in
a letter to the vigilant Victorian Taxpayers’
Association:—
Section 23 (1) (b) of the Income Tax Assessment
Act 1923-30 provides for the allowance of deductions
of “all rates, State and Federal land taxes and
State income tax. ...for which the taxpayer is per-
sonally liable”.... The department holds the view
that the deduction in respect of State income tax
is limited to that tax which is described in State
laws as “income tax.” Claims for deduction of taxes
which are described as “unemployment-relief taxes”
are, therefore, being rejected by the department.
Mr. Theodore stated during the week
that this champion quibbler was “reconsider-
ing” its outrageous decision. If it “recon-
siders” it to the extent of admitting that
it was wrong, taxpayers will be put to the
trouble and expense of writing to the depart-
ment, or else there will be a wholesale ran-
sacking of records, necessitating lashings of
overtime pay, if not the employment of a
special staff. For the department, in its
arrogance, omitted relief taxes from the
printed list of deductions on the forms
which had to be tilled in during the winter;
and the probability is that a great many
people will be denied the benefit of the
deduction even if it is allowed as a general
rule.
Something will have to be done about our
taxgatherers. They have become too “hot”
altogether. Through the laziness and levity
of politicians, they virtually make the taxa-
tion laws, and they are little tin gods as
far as administration is concerned, fining
unfortunate people without reference to any
court, and often treating them in personal
interviews as if they, Government em-
ployees, were masters dictating to servants.
In dozens of Full Court and High Court
judgments their interpretations of the
Chinese puzzles disguised as Income Tax
Assessment Acts have been proved to be
wildly wrong; but it is no use fighting them,
for they get their litigation for nothing, and
defeat in the courts is speedily followed by
victory in the Legislature in the shape of
some validating measure or retroactive tax.
So taxpayers submit to gross injustice rather
than be ruined for asserting a principle.
These remarks apply especially to the
Federal, N. S. Wales and Queensland depart-
ments. The Victorian office, like its Gov-
ernment, shows some consideration for tax-
payers in the trying times through which
they are going; in Victoria unemployment-
relief tax may be deducted from income
taxed by the State. In N. S. Wales un-
employment-relief tax, at a rate far higher
than the Victorian, is being demanded,
with the usual threats, on income derived
from Victoria, income on which Federal, Vic.
State and Vic. unemployment-relief taxes
have been paid already. This, of course, is
an utter swindle, and if the letter of the
Commonwealth Constitution does not forbid
it the spirit assuredly does. But, as with
other crimes which are being committed in
the name of taxation, it is cheaper to sub-
mit to even lawless extortion than to be
pursued from court to court and to have
the costly fruits of victory snatched from
one by ignorant or complaisant politicians.
• ♦
Monkeying with the Bench.
The situation in N. S. Wales with regard
to the Industrial Commission is one gravely
imperilling the entire arbitration system.
As a result of the thousandth change in the
law relating to industrial disputes, this Com-
mission was charged, among other things,
with fixing the basic wage; but the function
may only be exercised by the full Com-
mission. Throughout its career, almost
every important judgment of the Commis-
sion has been a majority decision; the
president, Mr. Piddington—“good old
Piddo”— on the one side; their Honors
Street and Cantor on the other. It was
just as certain as anything human can be
that if the matter of the N.SAV. basic wage
went to the Commission, two members at
least would be in favor of such a reduc-
tion as would bring the rate into something
like uniformity with those of the Com-
monwealth and the States. Every effort
to get this reduction made by the Judicial
Commission appointed for such purposes was
therefore resisted—with complete success.
But the time came when it looked as though
no further resistance could keep it out of
court; and workers of N. S. Wales, blocked
from employment by a wages scale which
was driving industry out of the State, saw
at last a chance of the matter coming on
for hearing and decision.
They reckoned without the wirepullers.
At this moment Justice Ferguson was about
due to retire from the Supreme Court under
that provision of law which pushes a man '
off the bench at 70, no matter what his
mental and physical condition. The tempt-
ing bait of a Supreme Court judgeship was
held to Mr. Street, who, faking it, there-
upon resigned from the Industrial Com-
mission. thus rendering it incapable of func-
tioning with regard to the basic wage. Mr.
Street may have made conditions; and it is
therefore too early to judge his conduct in
withdrawing from the Industrial Commis-
sion. If, however, he made no conditions
—if he simply threw the machinery of the
basic wage out of gear for no other purpose
than to gain for himself a better job; if
indeed he merely left the Commission
wholly at the mercy of the President—then
he steps on to the Supreme Court bench
under a darker cloud than has surrounded
any other member of it for many years.
There is, however, a way out. No age
limit will bar Mr. Piddington from presid-
ing over the Industrial Commission next
year, though he will be then past 70; and
no law presumably would bar Justice Fer-
guson from taking the place vacated by Mr.
Street. Justice Ferguson may hate The
Bulletin for making the suggestion; but
if any appointment to the Commission
could be acceptable in the circumstances in
which it must be made, it is the appoint-
ment of Justice Ferguson. The easy course
for the Government will be to appoint a
known. friend—a man whose decision upon
the basic wage will be known before his
appointment. But any such nomination
will bring not only the Commission but the
whole machinery of the law relating to in-
dustrial disputes into contempt. It is
doubtful, indeed, whether any fragment of
the industrial law would be safe in the
inevitable reaction; it is certain that such
an appointment would add greatly to the
weight of the demand for the wiping out
of all industrial awards. The appointment
of Justice Ferguson, even temporarily,
would save the situation. It may not be
possible to make a strictly judicial matter
of the fixing of a basic wage; but so far as
it is possible to make it a judicial matter,
nobody could be more fully trusted to do it
than this distinguished Judge.
♦
Unification Means Waste.
While the Prime Minister was talking
about unification and declaring that it was
the Labor Government’s policy—though
who authorised this policy is not clear—-the
Commonwealth Bank was considering a re-
quest for more millions for unemployment
relief, and the Board was reaching a decision
on the matter. It undertook to provide, for
a start, £300,000 to local governing, bodies
for certain specified works in N. S. Wales,
Victoria and Queensland. “Members gener-
ally,” a Canberra correspondent reported,
“expressed satisfaction at the decision of
the Board to deal with the various proposals
separately instead of granting a lump sum
to be used by the Governments. It was
thought that there was a greater likelihood
of money for these purposes being made
available to local governing bodies than to
State Governments, in which the same con-
fidence might not be felt.”
And there you have the complete reason
why unification ought to be enthusiastically
rejected. The further the spending autho-
rity is from the job, the greater the waste;
the more intimate the connection of those
about the job with the payment for it, the
greater the economy. Everybody who has
been on a mining field knows that. For
every pound wasted at Bendigo, whose
directors were on the spot, probably £lOO
was wasted in the same period in Westralia.
with the directors thousands of miles away.
For years a N.S.W. oil-shale co. made
modest profits; then an English co., formed
with a huge capital, mis-spent a million or
more and killed the industry'. Broken Hill
was so far from Sydney that what happened
there did not matter; so a syndicate was
given a concession to build a railway which
for many years paid dividends of over 60
per cent, per annum, much of it contributed
by the workers of the community. And
what is true of money-spending is true of
other things. So we have vigorous move-
ments in the north and south and west for
separation from the State of N. S. Wales,
on the ground that the Legislature in Sydney
is completely out of touch with the needs
and aspirations of the outlying parts.
Australia’s call is not for unification, but
for the subdivision of the existing States
into handy areas each as far as possible
with common interests. This will give us
practical legislation and economical admini-
stration; unification would give us unin-
formed legislation, wholly unsuitable to
many localities, and wasteful administration
by bureaucrats. The practical men of the
Commonwealth Bank board, looking at the
matter purely as a business proposition, and
wanting the best guarantee they can get
that the people’s savings will be repaid with
interest, choose the local governing bodies
to spend the money. And the people of
Australia, if they are equally wise, will
reject unification and agitate for the sub-
division of the States as the only way to
get a fair return in legislation and admini-
stration for the enormous sum it costs them.
»
Common Law Rights.
“Fitzwilliam” ; Edward Bellamy convinced
himself 40 years ago that the labor leaders
of his time were subsidised by the “capital-
ists” to hinder the arrival of the Millennium.
In those bright days I thought that Bellamy
was only saying things, but now I am not
so sure, else how account for Laug and his
gang? Take their latest lunacy, the reduc-
tion of interest on mortgages, and confining
ourselves to one point—abolition of the
right to sue on the personal covenant. I
am aware that that eminent solicitor Mr.
Landa thinks so little of it that he
apparently never bothers to inform his
clients that it is there, and his barrister
associates don’t believe in its existence.
However, speaking as a conveyancer who
practised before some of these gentlemen
were born, I am in a position to say that
we do look upon the personal covenant
as an important part of the security; in
fact, in these difficult times it is the only
security that a second mortgagee has to
rely on. In the vast majority of cases the
equity has gone, and now that the legal
remedy has been abolished, second mort-
gagees are in for a bad time. But consider.
It is the man with money, and the bank,
and the big financial concerns, who hold the
first mortgages. They have been able to
pick and choose their clients. It is the
small man again, the man with little capital
who wanted big rates of interest, that in-
vested on second mortgages, and he is
going to get it in the neck.
As regards future transactions, any con-
veyancer worth his salt can see methods of
evading the restrictions; but it is safe to
say that the latest form of repudiation is
going to make it much harder for a N.S.W.
mortgagor to raise money, and I should
think that the “security value” of his assets
is less than 50 per cent, what it was two
years ago—he can borrow less than half
what he could then.
I have preached from the same text
before, but it may be worth repeating. The
common law is the slow creation of the
learning and hard experience of centuries,
and it works. Once the legislator starts to
monkey with it, though he may solve one
problem, he generally succeeds in uncover-
ing so many others that the last state is
considerably worse than the first.
♦
“Parents, Children and State.”
“Birkrode” concludes the matter: —
Thank you for your attention to this important
question (B. 30/9/’3l), and your contributors for
their very practical suggestions to help me out of
a difficult situation. I now have great pleasure in
saying that a miracle has happened. The problem
solved itself. My wife and I again discussed
“Family Physicians” original article and we resolved
to courageously tackle the question—my wife to
talk with our girl and myself with the boy. Our
resolution was more than fully justified. Neither
of us found it to be so tremendously difficult as we
had dreaded; and we are heartily thankful to know
that our duty has been so successfully performed.
The children’s reaction was all that, we could desire,
and we feel now that we have their complete con-
fidence in these matters.


I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more;
all meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in tearoom
or cafe. Full board
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling __ , ___ __
teams, sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
m
The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The “Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
FOR OCTOBER.
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
Prom Newsagents, or’ Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Diamond Engagement Kings
fasgt
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value iu Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
fasgt
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In June, 1930, when the last pre-Lang
Ministry finished its last financial year,
N.S.W. dole expenditure was £6700 a week.
It has boomed up to £lOO,OOO a week. In
his financial statement Lang said that there
must be a great swindle somewhere, ana
if he knew where it was he would try to
stop it; but a Treasurer who sees £5,000,000
a year vanishing down a hole yet, can’t find
the hole isn’t worth his pay. A young man •
who owned up to being a habitual dole
swindler recently told the Court _ that the
law was full of holes like a wire fence.
Lang’s Acts are all like that. Sometimes
bills are kicked through the Assembly before
they are read, and sometimes before they are
printed, and sometimes before they are com-
posed, and sometimes they are introduced
12 at a time with orders that they must be
passed immediately, and the tame majority
sees to it that they are. Lang hates dis-
cussion about one of his own measures lest
he might hear something about what is in it.
Stewart, M.H.R., thinks (and so does The
Bulletin ) that the £3,000,000 to be advanced
by the banks for a wheat bounty should be
distributed among the farmers who were
implored to Grow More Wheat last year,
MAGICIAN MOLONEY: “Why didn’t I come
to light with that twenty-three million
I promised? That nark over there
wouldn’t let me.”
and did sof with such dire results to them-
selves. Putting the case for these victims
of wordspinners, he said they bad been
promised 4s. a bushel, had grown 212
million bushels, and had received an average
of Is. 9d. Minister Moloney had the gall
to assert in reply that if the Senate had
passed his Marketing Bill they would have
got their 4s. What is the use of keeping
up a bluff that wouldn’t deceive an abo.?
According to Premier Hogan, if the Vic.
Cabinet even whispers about ordering corn-
sacks for settlers the walls stretch their
ears and the price goes up. Speculators,
Hogan added, got a good cut out of corn-
sacks last season, and there will be no sup-
plementary order from the Government this
time.
Treasurer Barnes, of Bananaland, has
budgeted for a deficit of £1,871,100 as against
£842,100 last year. Revenue is expected to
bring in £13,829,535, and expenditure is
estimated at £15,700,744. From loans
£1,700,711 is to be spent—£ls2,ooo less than
last year. Figures for 1931-32 show a reduc-
tion in Government salaries and wages of
21.7 per cent. The necessity for providing
1,093,000 for exchange, plus the drop in
revenue, has made a balanced budget impos-
sible.
There was no Eight-hour Day procession
in Sydney this year—a lot of the trade-
unions had their money in the bank that
Jack broke, and are broke, too—but there
was a Trades Hall dinner, at which Lang
boasted that “the revolution” had “come by
Act of Parliament”:—
The policy which seven months ago caused our
Labor movement to become ostracised in Australia
is to-day the policy of the world.
What a “revolution”; _ and what a world it
would be if this darling of the mob were
right! A world in which no man and no
State could take another’s written word. A
world of welshers, basher gangs, lotteries, tin
hares and fruit machines.
Lang, talking at the Eight-hour dinner: —
For hundreds of years every Act of Parliament has
had written through it the sanctity of the written
contract Public opinion has forced the deletion of
that iniquitous condition, and before many years have
passed it will not be the sanctity of the written
contract that is engraved in every Act of Parliament,
but the welfare of the people which will take its
place.
/And when the people shy off the Government
Savings Bank, asking what faith they can
put in the Act on which the new bank was
founded, or in any of the contracts which it
makes with them, this tragic blunderer will
scream that it would have been a great suc-
cess only for the blood-sucking capertlists.
The last has been heard for a good many
years of Westralia’s “3500-farms scheme.”
It was minted in the brain of a State Labor
Minister when the £34,000,000 migration
agreement was a live thing, and John
Gunn, who left the S. Aus. Premiership
for a job on the Development and Migration
Commission, fancied it so much that he
caused £lOO,OOO or so to be advanced for
preliminary expenses. But before things
could bo done in the grand style two agricul-
tural chemists reported that a lot of the
soil they had examined was too salty for
wheat-growing; and then came the loan
famine and the price tumble. Two hundred
settlers who pushed out ahead of the dream-
railways arc to be withdrawn to districts
less remote.
If Messrs. Daly and Beasley and Other
eminent Federal Labor politicians had had
their way, Jacob Johnson, of the Seamen’s
Union, would have had a fine “bank” for
the spring meetings. Johnson served a short
sentence in 1928 on a charge of having held
up shipping by coercing reluctant mariners
—gentlemen of his kidney had done this so
often that even the Bruce-Pages had been
baited into hitting back. Early in the
Federal Labor regime a former Common-
wealth investigation officer reported to Sena-
tor Daly that Johnson had been “railroaded
to gao'l on false evidence,” and Senator Daly,
weeping bitterly no doubt, proposed that
the alleged victim should receive a grant of
public money. The estimable Beasley, then
a Minister, championed Johnson’s cause, and
“by a majority decision of Cabinet,” as he
revealed later in his engaging way, it was
agreed to give Mynheer “a sum not exceed-
ing £1000.” But Attorney-General Brennan,
who was away in Europe, objected, and after
a lot of wrangling (in the course of which
Mr. Beasley, who had ceased to adorn the
Ministry, passionately charged his ex-col-
leagues with “repudiation”) the matter was
referred to Beeby, J. f as Royal Commis-
sioner. In the box the former investigation
officer broke down badly; and the Beeby
report is such that Jacob won’t get his
£lOOO or any part of it.
A flavor of Irish politics was given to
the campaign against the Commonwealth
employee who was alleged to \ have rigged
the case against Jacob Johnson. It was
asserted by a Gang-plan member that he was
one of the Black and Tans. The man’s own
account is that he was in the Royal Irish
Constabulary, but that was perhaps regarded
as almost as flagrant an offence.
When the Winning Bets Tax Bill was on
the stocks Lang said it would bring him in
two millions a year. The old betting taxes,
which have been continued, yielded £107,200
in 1929-30; the 1930-31 revenue from these
and Lang’s tax, which operated for six
months and a bit, including two important
December meetings at Randwick, was
£316,200. So the 124 p.c. on winning wagers
produced about £200,000, instead of the esti-
mated million, and by driving punters into
the s.-p. shops, which are all supplied with
wireless, it contributed to falls of £42,740
and of £50,000 in the twelvemonth’s revenue
from the racecourse-admission and tote taxes.
In the face of these figures, and of the com-
An annoying impediment to the emancipa-
tion of the struggling masses.
petition of his lottery, Lang claimed, on the
authority of “Treasury officials,” that his
Government would get £250,000 a year by
reviving the tin-hare —which unspeakable
scandal is not to be consummated this year,
thanks to the Leg. Council. If Treasury
officials really stuffed him with this rubbish
they are as hopeless mugs as he is.
Bob Menzies, K.C., who has his eye on
the Vic. Premiership, has been named presi-
dent of the Nat. Federation in suc-
cession to ex-Premier Lawson, now a
Senator. His ambition is no secret, and last
year a premature push on his behalf was
made by friends. The young man has
ideas, energy and a contempt for expediency-
mongers ; and his time will come.
GONE, BET NOT FORGOTTEN.
“Bara is making a distribution of its funds at
the rate of 1s. 4d. a share—that is the final payment
of a series of disbursements aggregating £236,741,955.
This total easily represents the greatest wool trans-
action in the history of the world.”
Out of its beneficence the Scullidore Gov-
ernment is reducing the export duty on copra
shipped from Mandated New Guinea from
15s. a ton to 7s. 6d. The duty had pre-
viously been cut from 255. to 205., and from
20s. to 155., and why it isn’t abolished alto-
gether, at least until things get better, is hard
to understand.
Mr. Badly admits that loafers are selling
their dole coupons for Government lottery
tickets (it is currently reported that the
lottery is getting one-fourth of the dole
money), and that this is not the whole story:
Shopkeepers have charged the Government for goods
not supplied, and paid cash for about 60 per cent,
of the value of the coupons, and accepted coupons in
payment for betting transactions.
But he dismisses as “fantastic” “the idea that
for the amount expended in food relief the
unemployed should work.” Food relief is
only one of the benefits handed out, as Badly
knows. In dole coupons and child-endow-
ment money thousands of unemployed are
drawing £2 to £3 a week, in addition to
what the dishonest among them may get by
the cheating which is so easy. Further,
Badly’s Government has so ordered things
that they needn’t pay rent nor anything on
the piano or the wireless set. Yet it is
“fantastic” to expect these persons to give
the country some return and not make subsi-
dised idleness a habit. “Fantastic,” when the
money which is maintaining them is being
dragged from employees by taxing 5 per cent,
of their weekly . earnings, and from em-
ployers by taxing 7£d. in the £ of income and
£2 in the £lOO of the wages they pay! And
this chattering dunce is called Minister of
Labor and Industry.
N.S.W. State politicians and public ser-
vants —at least those concerned with the
division of Federal and State powers—should
be compelled to read and pass an elementary
examination in the Commonwealth Consti-
tution Act. The Lang mob imagined in 192(5
that it could clap an excise tax on news-
papers. It imagined in March that it could
cheat the Commonwealth of interest on
debts Federalised in accordance with a
majority vote at a constitutional refer-
endum. It imagines now that it can
compel the stamping of goods from other
States, though the Constitution says (sec-
tion 92) “Trade, commerce and inter-
course among the States shall be absolutely
free.” Lang’s Taxation Department is en-
gaged in the grossly unfederal business of
taxing income derived from property in other
States, and may try to tax the property
next —it seems fatheaded enough. And
O’Malley Wood, of the “new” Savings Bank,
with Lang’s warm approval (and with people
willing to take £55 for a £lOO investment in
the 5i p.c. Rural Bank loan maturing in
1933), talks of issuing debentures “for
amounts as low as £1”: —
They will be negotiable in practically the same
manner as a £1 note, but on the G.S.B. instead
of on the Commonwealth Bank. It is probable that
they will be regarded as ordinary currency, and
the persons with money in the old business division
will be able to pay their creditors or tradespeople
in what would practically amount to ready cash.”
Yet for 31 years it has been laid down in
the Constitution (section 115) that “a State
shall not coin money, nor make anything but
gold and silver coin a legal tender in pay-
ments of debts.”
Queensland’s State Insurance Commis-
sioner has given wheatgrowers a pleasant
surprise by announcing that rates on this
year’s crop will be cut from 7s. 7d. p.c.
to ss. lid. p.c., and on wheat in. mill stores
from 11s. 4d. p.c. to Ss. lOd. p.c. A discount
of 10 p.c., treated as a bonus, will also be
allowed, bringing net rates to' ss. 4d. and
7s. lid. respectively. And a charge of 3d.
p.c. for explosion risks is included.
Smuts has put Britain’s position in two
lines —“it tried to practise sound finance in
a world that did hot practise it.” Inciden-
tally, Smuts delivered the presidential
address at the annual meeting of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science,
and a noble job he made of it. And this
time 30 years ago the Jingo press was
describing him as little better than a savage!
Sydney “Labor Daily” paraded both its
King Charles’s heads in connection with the
Mukden business:—
The aim of the coup is a double-headed one—to
distract world-wide attention from the ignominious
failure of the international money dictatorship, and
to embroil the whole world in war with Russia.
What the “coup” chiefly means is that the
brotherliood-of-man propaganda _ which
Moscow has been concentrating on in Japan
for the past five years is a wash-out. The
Japanese have grabbed Manchuria because it
is rich, strategically valuable and undefended.
Countries in that position which have relied
on appeals to the better feelings of their
well-armed neighbors always have been
grabbed, and they always will be.
The Oaucusan Brothers :
There have been three bowld McGirrs in the
N.S.W. Parliament —Gregory, who was Minister of
Health in the Storev-Dooley (1920-22) Government;
Paddy, who lias been an M.L.O. since 1921 after a
term (1917-20) as M.L.A. for Macquarie; and Jim,
who is Lang’s Minister of Local Government. Greg
McGirr tried to become Labor Premier in place of
Dooley, with whom he had an enjoyable feud, and
“automatically placed himself outside the move-
ment” in 1925, when he formed a “party” of his own
and lost his Sydney seat. Jim McGirr got in for Coota-
mundra in 1922, but was beaten for the nomination
in 1925 by Peter Loughlin’s protege Hoad. He found
another safe Labor seat while “the movement’’ was
expelling brother Greg, and, hurling himself joyously
into the Lang-Loughlin faction fight (1926-27), has
been suitably rewarded by the winner. Now Paddy
McGirr has fallen foul of “the movement.” He
first of all objected to the Moratorium Amendment
Bill being “rushed through this House at five o’clock
in the morning,” and that with the aid of “a
member [Joynton Smith] who has not been here
for years, and who has aefted as Whip for the
Government in every possible way.” Then he voted
against “this bill for cancelling contracts” in the
interests of “go-getters who are trying to rob the
poor,” adding genially that “a Labor party that
stands for such a, thing must smell in the nostrils
of decent people.” So Paddy joins Gregory outside
“the movement” which still rejoices in the presence
of Jim.
“The slumbering Labor member who had his pocket
picked at N.S.W. Parliament House was. Mr. Joe
Clark, one of the most popular men in Macquarie-
street.”
“Joe won’t mind. He's a Socialist. Good
ole Joe!
“Matelot”: The R.A.N. is guffawing over
the furphies about Bolshevism on the lower
deck. Sydney “Sun” started it by sending
a reporter to investigate a telephoned yarn
of a stop-work meeting on the Penguin at
which the Red flag was supposed to have
been hoisted and the oflicers cowed into
gibbering submission. The commander said
he hadn’t heard of the upheaval, and asked
a rating if he had. A wide grin was the
reply; the “Sun” had had its leg pulled.
Anyone capable of believing that the R.A.N.
wants to go the way of the Russian Navy
merits a Trades Hall 0.M., or Order of
Moronism.


SOCIETU
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“0. Con”: A respondent confronted a
Sydney divorce Judge with a daring defence
last week. He admitted that he had taken
the- lady to Melbourne and elsewhere (she
was his secretary and he needed her help) ;
that he had spent nights at her flat after
parties (“one doesn’t feel like dragging
SAFETY FIRST.
“Gee, he’s a wild driver. I always take a cake of soap when I go out with him.”
“Soap? What ever for?”
“Well, you don’t get a proper wash in hospital unless you take your own soap.”
home in the small hours of the morning after
a party”) ; and that she had come to live
in his house after his wife left it. But there
was nothing in it; they were just business
friends. With similar optimism a Parisian
wife on seeing her enraged husband burst
into the room whispered to her partner
in sin, “Turn round and pretend we don’t
know each other.” But the alibi didn’t
succeed, and neither did the Sydney man’s.
Still, such defences deserve to go on record.
They are forlorn hopes which none but the
V.C.’s of romance have the nerve to under-
take.
“Mersah Matruh” ; Someone writing in the
“S. M. Herald” on the last phase of Allenby’s
campaign in Palestine said that this was the
first occasion on which Australian mounted
troops had carried the sword on active ser-
vice. The fact is that the N.S.W. Lancers
and the Australian Horse bore the tooth-
pick in the South African campaign. And
before the Light Horse ever saw Pales-
tine, or Sinai either, a composite regiment
of them drawn from several brigades
at Cairo was equipped with the sword
against the Senussi in western Egypt. I
can recall the blasphemy of men w-ho,
having been sweated for days at the old
sword exercise, with its elaborate cuts and
points, were issued with the cavalry thrust-
ing sword, and instructed that only one
lunge and a corresponding guard were neces-
sary with the new weapon.
V H*
“Binduli”: Tom Wheatear was a Boulder
(W.A.) publican, a rotund and consequen-
tial man, full of dig-
nity and firmly con-
vinced that he owed his
prosperity to his own
abounding merits. There
was a rumor that he
had risen from the
humblest beginnings,
but the nature of his
early activities remained
a dark secret till a
filter-pressman from the
Mile, aggrieved at being
refused “strap” for a
few pints, rounded or
his old townie. “You’re
a big bug, ain’t yer,
Tom V” he sneered ; “but
how about the good
turns I useter do you
in Manchester? Many’s
the time, when you
were hawkin’ with a
tray at the street cor-
ner, I’ve stopped an’
bought a ha’porth of
periwinkles to save you
from doing a perish.”
Tom turned as red as a
beet, and emitted a roar
like a bull, but the
filter - pressman had
lurched away, contented
with the effect of his broadside. After that
cockles and mussels were subjects tacitly
tabooed by everyone who wanted to keep in
this particular Bung’s good graces.-
* * =1: *
“Erua”: Mention of the fact that a recent
shipment of passion-fruit was regarded in
New York with suspicion recalls the experi-
ence of a Maorilander in San Francisco over
20 years ago. Finding the Americans were
unfamiliar with the fruit, he ordered a
supply from Auckland, where the plant
grows like a weed and yields abundantly.
But nobody within the Golden Gate would
touch it, fearing appendicitis, so the
importer did not repeat the experiment. The
passion-fruit does not carry attractively. It
was once said to be the only fruit grown
in her dominions that Queen Victoria had
absolutely refused to taste.
$ * * *
“Viveur”: I am told that the stubborn
prejudice against frogs’ legs as an article
of food is being abandoned by English
gourmets. Eseoffier has left it on record
that King Edward was the only Eng-
lishman who really appreciated the
Gallic delicacy when he introduced it
at the Carlton disguised as “nymphes
a la rose,” but times are evidently
changing. The plat is highly esteemed
in America, and writer has encoun-
tered it in Capetown, of all places,
the frogs being collected by Malays
from the Salt River marshes near Maitland.
Australia possesses, in the familiar large
green frog, what seems an ideal provider
of joints for the table, and there are pos-
sibilities of a fortune for anyone with pluck
and enterprise enough to familiarise the
public with a variation on the eternal tri-
angle of beef, mutton and pork.
“Lao-dah”: Religious circles are agitated
at the discovery of the Customs that the
Bible is a book and therefore dutiable It
might be argued that it is not a book but
the Book, but a Customs official is as skilled
at casuistry as any theologian. On the
other side of the ledger, the broadcasting
companies have suddenly been asked by the
Performing Rights Association to submit a
return of the religious music broadcast at
church services during the past 12 months.
This has staggered the radio people. So
much church music was written by com-
posers like Bach and Purcell who have been
dead a long time, and so many hymns were
composed by divines who have long graduated
into the heavenly choir, that they couldn’t
THE AUDIENCE.
H IM: “Listen! Her voice is like a great organ, isn’t it?”
HER: “M'yes. But I don’t think it has as many stops.”
have been more surprised had Beethoven per-
sonally appeared and demanded royalties
for their frequent performances of the
“Eroica” symphony. Still, there is a little
church music on which copyright might be
claimed if the owners care to go to the
trouble. Few of the old hymn-writers ever
thought of royalties. They did it for
the glory of God or the love of the thing—
old-fashioned reasons nowadays.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Television, which made a very
modest beginning in Melbourne a couple of
years ago, may come back shortly with the
same rush as the talkies. Big financial
interests in America have taken over the
National Broadcasting Co., and are setting
up a plant of vast power for disseminating
vision. A fool-proof receiver has been de-
vised, and it is confidently expected that
millions of American homes will own them
within a year or two. The technical diffi-
culties are no more insuperable than were
those which confronted audible broadcasting
in 1920. When the new toy arrives there
will be the usual gloomy prognostications
of the imminent decease of the cinema
theatre. But man is a gregarious animal, and
his passion for taking his amusement in
company has survived the gramophone,
pianola and other mechanical devices, and
will probably survive this.
:jt * ❖ ❖
“Mells”: Curious how old words, or the
almost obsolete meanings of such, may get a
new lease of life all of a sudden. “Sterling,”
which is found in pretty well every day’s
cable news these times, is an example. In
Funk and Wagnall’s Dictionary it is men-
tioned that the use of the word to denote
British money has become rare. Webster
defines it as “the lawful money of England,
now chiefly applied to a specified sum, as
the pound sterling.” But there is some-
thing even more interesting in Webster con-
cerning its earlier uses. “Collectively,” says
that authority, “the word is applied to Aus-
tralian colonists born in England. In Aus-
tralia in the early days the name ‘currency’
was given to mixed colonial money as
opposed to English gold pieces or ‘sterling.’
Hence the two words w r ere applied to the
native-born and immigrants respectively.”
A quotation from John Dunmore Lang is
appended in support of this. In other
words the “pommy” of a century ago was
“sterling,” a term obviously less calculated
to ruffie his susceptibilities.
* * * *
“Machete”: Some people seem to be un-
able to let an argument drop. The latest
instance is the revival of the brand between
Bolivia and Paraguay over the Grand
Chaco frontier zone. This area is prac-
tically unexplored forest, and as far
as anyone knows of no particular value to
anyone, even the Indians giving it a wide
berth. Yet for the best part of 70 years
the rival claimants have periodically engaged
in a struggle for it, and the bloodshed has
been painful to think about. In the latest
clash it is computed that at least six Para-
guayan soldiers were k'lled in eight hours’
fighting, while the Bolivian casualties cannot
be ascertained until the war correspondents
have caught up with their rearguard. What
is the League of Nations doing, anyway?
* =s= * *
“Bunco”: Re these military pretenders
(B. 30/9/’3l), their success is largely due
to the credulity of the folk who take them
at their own value, though a glance at any
book of reference would generally explode
their pretensions. I can remember an illi-
terate sailor who blew into Charters Towers
in 1910 on an alleged walk round the world
for a wager, and claimed to be Captain Sea-
forth of the “Cameronian Highlanders,” a
regiment which has never figured on the
Imperial Army list. He added that he was a
D. 5.0., but failed to recall how he won the dis-
tinction, or where, and explained the absence
of his name from the roll in “Whitaker” by
saying he had resigned the order. Yet the book
he carried bore the signature of mayors and
seals of municipal authorities of every con-
siderable town from Melbourne to Townsville.
He left the Towers hurriedly, but I heard
of him later in a Malayan journal, which
stated that “Captain Seaforth of the ‘Tas-
manian Rangers’ ” had dined with the mess
of an Imperial regiment then stationed at
Singapore. I have often wondered what
the mess thought of him.
* * * *
“Fleet Street”: The late-lamented “Pink
Tin” began to disintegrate before John
Corlett died (B. 30/9/’3ll. Tn 1912
the old man selfishly sold it without
acquainting the staff, who had made it the
remunerative proposition it was, of his in-
tention. All of them promptly resigned;
one of their objections to the new pro-
prietor was that he had been warned off
the turf for a period. So he got the cage
without the birds, and the paper’s declension
was so rapid that the price agreed on was
never paid. After that the “Pink’Un” changed
hands again and recovered something of its
old grip as a purveyor of racing news and
mud-honey, but its later years were full of
trouble. In all it ran for 66 years. A
doc :or named Shorthouse launched it in
1865; ten years later, after the original
proprietor had been fined and gaoled for
libelling a racehorse owner, Corlett acquired
control, and the “Pink ’Un” gradually
became a best-seller. One of its minor
distinctions was that it originated the
rather fatuous word “ashes,” as applied to
English-Australian cricket, by a mock
epitaph which appeared after Murdoch’s
team had vanquished Grace’s by seven runs
in 1882.
* ❖ ❖
“E.H.M.”: Governor Game, during his
recent tour of the Tweed River district, paid
a visit to the C.S.R. Co.’s sugar-mill at Con-
dong, a place where Sir Gerald (now Lord)
Strickland once had a harrowing experience.
On Strickland’s arrival at Condong the
works were at a standstill owing to a tem-
porary shortage of cane, but, the distinguished
visitor being particularly anxious to witness
the manufacture of sugar, it was decided to
dredge the river around the mill for cane
which had fallen from the punts during un-
loading operations. A few tons of partially de-
composed vegetation were thus recovered and
put through the rollers, but the stuff stank
so abominably that the “demonstration” con-
cluded very hurriedly.
* *
“Manana”: Perhaps one reason why some
people have a lot of money is that' others
can’t be bothered to collect what is wait-
ing for them. Already in the early days
of the N.S.W. lottery it is announced that
no claims have been received from drawers
of many of the minor prizes, and the same is
true of Queensland’s Golden Casket and Tas-
mania’s Tattersall’s. Last week a £lOOO neck-
lace, first prize in & lottery, which was won
by a man known to be out of work, reverted
to the givers, having been unclaimed for
three months. At the same time Australian
newspapers are advertising for a man who
has come into big money in England
and whose people have been sending out
handsome remittances. So far there has
been no response from the legatee, who is
supposed to be alive, but, the cash is coming
in useful as alimony to his wife, who divorced
him some years ago and has custody of his
children.
❖ ❖ ❖
“O.B.”: Though the Australian Labor
party does not approve of decorations and
similar distinctions, its comrades of the
Russian Soviet think otherwise. In that,
paradise of the proletariat there are several
gauds of the kind, the most highly prized
being the Order of Lenin and the Red
Banner of Toil. This last was recently
awarded to two swineherds, both women.
One Comrade Buntova received her distinct-
tion for unfailing attention to duty which
has put the record of the Roman soldier at
Pompeii in the shade,_ for, as the citation says,
“at times she spent night and day in the hog-
pens.”. Comrade Bresna got her issue for
looking after 200 pigs at a time instead
of the 100 customarily allotted, while she
also saved the lives of a herd of calves
threatened by a cattle epidemic. It all reads
rather strangely, but, after all, a lot. of
wearers of non-Russian decorations won
theirs for dirtier work than valeting pigs.
I THINK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I think the times are out of joint,
And venture the addendum
That so are those whom we appoint
To Parliament to mend ’em.
I think that few whose kitchen shelves
Are bare of steak and kidney
Will glow with pride to find themselves
A part of Greater Sydney.
I think that hares of tin, pursued
■ By canines fleet and eager,
Provide a substitute for food
That’s maddeningly meagre.
I think, as oft as Whiddon’s mills
Grind out a lottery drawing,
For every stomach that it tills
It leaves a hundred gnawing.
I think it challenges denial
And beggars contradiction
That Sculliu is a bitter trial
And Lang a sheer infliction,
I think, till from the ghastly mess
That each has made he’s hounded,
We’ll find depression heavier press,
Confusion worse confounded.
I think it’s Greek to most, the junk
Of economics scholars
On w r hy the British pound has sunk
In terms of Yankee dollars.
Such mysteries are off my range;
They set my wits a-whirling.
The strings that work behind exchange
Or give a jolt to sterling.
I think that Labor’s only chance,
When things are worse than middling,
Is just to stage a song and dance
To Opposition fiddling.
I think that double-damning things
An occupation worse is
Than tumty-tumming banjo-strings
Or scrawling dogg’rel verses.
I think the dole has come to stay,
Whoever first decreed it;
I’m more than half inclined to pray
That I may never need it.
And last I think, of all the host
Of fiction’s figures, haply.
The one I’d like to meet the most
In present mood is—Tapley.
N.S.W 7 .
T. THE R.


“ Jeames” : How much better to be a Van-
derbilt than a king! George V. is marooned
in Britain as effectively as the. Pope is in
the Vatican. He is doomed for life to attend
certain functions, such as race meetings,
which he hates. If he takes a spell in Scot-
land, which he is understood to like, he is
liable to be yanked back as he was last
week. His routine is as rigid, dull and. cir-
cumscribed as that of a clerk, and he isn’t
even rich in the sense of owning spending
money, his huge income being nearly all
allocated. The Vanderbilt now in Australia
in a grandson of Cbrnelius, who made
100,000,000 dollars out of railways in the
middle of last century. William K. Vander-
bilt, our visitor’s father, doubled the family
fortune before he was 40, and it is now impos-
sible to compute it. The Alva, which is
being docked at Brisbane, gives some idea
of its owner’s wealth. A man once told
J. P. Morgan that he would like a 2000-ton
yacht, but wasn’t sure he could afford it.
“If you have to consider money then you
can’t afford it,” said Morgan. Luxuries of
the sort cost £lOOO a week and upwards.
A Vanderbilt can leave home for as long as
ITS BLOOMING-TIME WAS PAST.
Attendant: “That clock, sir, has functioned for over two centuries.”
Other: “By Jove! I should say the jolly old time was ripe by now—eh, what?”
he likes and go where he likes, and there is
no nation, race, party or class that he need
bother to’ propitiate. In fact, he is ond of
the few human beings who are as “perfectly
free” as Buskin’s house-fly.
* * * *
“Lex”: The rare defence of “last chance”
under the Wrongs Act was relied On in a
Melbourne court last week, when the wife
of a man who had been killed in a car acci-
dent sued the driver. This defence admits
negligence, but claims that the victim was
also negligent and went on being so for as
long as the defendant. Judge Moule found
that deceased had been negligent “up to the
last two or three steps he had taken,” where-
as defendant’s negligence had continued to
the end. Judgment for plaintiff. The in-
terest lay in the split seconds at issue. With
death practically tapping him on the shoulder
the doomed one had at least made a shudder-
ing gesture of protest; his destroyer had
carried right on. Motorists might note that
“last-chance” defences practically never come
off. It is partly because in motoring acci-
dents the victim hardly ever has a chance,
but even more because of the difficulty of
persuading anyone that the driver respon-
sible for the death of a fellow-citizen wasn’t
chiefly to blame. “The killer is always
wrong.”
“Clarence Cafeteria”: A
circumstance which leads
me to believe that we have
reached bedrock in this de-
pression and that things
will gradually improve is
that my favorite hotel in
Melbourne has reinstituted
the free counter lunch. How
fraught with significance
this move is may be gauged
when I add that the hos-
telry’s beer supply was
promptly cut off at the
main, so to speak, no doubt
at the instigation of the
sinister financial influences
which are controlling the
country. Undaunted, mine
host, a man of moral brawn
and vision, ordered 68
barrels of the Tasmanian
brew. Despite rumors tiiat
a basher gang in the pay
of the Money Power was
planning to seize the beer
and empty it into the
gutters of Collins-street,
the liquor duly arrived at
the hotel under police
protection. If the Federal
Government will lend the
co-operation of the navy, it
should not be impossible to
maintain communication
with the sister island, in
which ease the free-lunch movement will
inevitably spread with irresistible force
throughout the country.
“Betul”: In a recent League of Nations
report Australia has the unenviable distinc-
tion of heading the opium and cocaine con-
sumption lists, with close on 15 kilograms
of cocaine per million people, the U.S.A.
and Great Britain being runners-up with
8 and respectively. Despite Customs
vigilance it is obvious that shipments of
opium and cocaine are entering Australia
in a steady stream, the bulk of the contra-
band being got rid of before the main ports
are reached. But the figures are mis-
leading in one respect, for much of the stuff
is merely landed here for further trans-
shipment, mostly to the United States.
Ships from Australia to the States are not
searched with the same thoroughness as
those arriving direct from the Orient and
those trading between Asiatic ports and
America. «
“Bullionist”: Gresham’s law is no respecter
of metals. When England was bimetallist it
usually operated to drive out gold. The Eng-
lish pound started life as a pound of silver—
“pound” is Saxon. It could be argued that
silver is a more enduring standard than gold,
for to-day, after over a century in which
silver has been demonetised and despitefully
treated, and gold has so swollen in value that
it cannot be retained as a standard, a pound
of silver is worth only 2s. 14d. less than the
English pound, while the gold sovereign is
worth 10s. more. England’s serious troubles
with gold began with the coining of the gold
guinea in 1663. It. was intended to be worth
205., but as most of the silver in circulation
was badly worn and about 40 p.c. under
weight, Lombard-street valued the guinea at
30s. So the Mint called in the old silver and
re-coined it (suffering a loss of £2.500,000).
The guinea remained at a premium, being
valued at 225. silver, a rate recognised by
law in 1697. The value of silver abroad was
at a higher ratio to gold, and England’s
silver coins were exported at such a rate
that in 1717 the Government had to call in
Ike Newton to advise what should be done
MISSES.
“I don’t think I like her. I’m told she gave
her husband a terrible time when they
found him after he’d been missing for a fortnight.”
“Yes; but perhaps he was with one of them when they found him?
about it. That eminent mathematician
pointed out the obvious solution —to make
the legal price of gold “on lie to have the
same proportion to the silver money in Eng-
land that it hath to silver in the rest of
Europe”—so they scaled the guinea down to
21s. But that was still too high a ratio, and
in 1816, in order to ensure a sufficiency of
silver small change, silver was demonetised
and gold made the sole standard of value.
Now paper money is driving out both gold
and silver.
* * *
“Farleigh” : The Savagely Satirical Testa-
tor made a posthumous appearance the other
day in the Vic. Practice Court. He was a
Ballarat citizen whose mordant humor had
found expression in the following sentence
in his will: “Upon trust to my wife I leave
the sum of five shillings to buy a book, in
which to write down all the lies she has told
about me.” The widow lodged a caveat
against the will, which resulted in an appli-
cation for an order calling on her to show
cause why probate should, not be granted.
The Court acceded to this, with the dry
judicial comment that the testator was “a
nice sort of gentleman.” A bequest of this
nature is quite liable to' kick back like a
badly-loaded gun.
;Jc ❖ '£ V
“Flagfall”: A Sydney magistrate has
ruled that, whereas the owner of a motor-car
may sleep in his parked caravan, the driver
of a taxi, the same being a vehicle licensed
for public convenience, breaks the law by
doing so. The distinction, however legal
it may be, seems rough on the army of
taximen who' are beginning to make their
cars their homes. Hard times have. led to
numerous taxi-drivers frequently staying out
the whole 24 hours on the chance of picking
up a few shillings, and in the circumstances
they regard room-rent as a waste of scarce
money. Nor is the habit confined to the
plier for hire. There is an out-of-work com-
mercial, frequently to be seen at Darling-
liurst parties, who at the end of a shivoo
may sometimes get a shakedown in the flat
or home of one of his convivial friends;
that failing, he makes a bedroom of his car
—to the possession of which he still despe-
rately clings.
“Oxmead” : The review of Nettie Palmer’s
book on the late Justice Higgins (B.
23/9/’3l) recalls that his Honor bore a
name full of difficulties for aspiring rhymers.
In 1905 Higgins, always a patron of art and
letters, endowed some sort of annual prize
for an Australian poem, and The Bulletin’s
Red Page editor of the period invited contri-
butions to celebrate the benevolence in verse.
Two guineas were offered for the best quat-
rain ; the stumbling-block was that the
Judge’s patronymic had to be lugged in at
the end of a line. The competition met with
a spirited response, but most of the poet-
asters (myself included) came a cropper at
the name hurdle. The winner was an in-
genious person who dug up a perfectly good
Scotch word, “biggins” (it means “a head
covering”), and craftily utilised it by featur-
ing Higgins as bidding some favored bard
“bind bays around his biggins.” Somehow,
very few names of living celebrities seem to
lend themselves to rhyme, and Higgins em-
phatically isn’t one of them. Still, it must
be admitted that it has more possibilities than
Higginbotham.
“Swaddy”: 0. E. W. Bean recommended
some time ago that short accounts of the
Australian effort in the Great War by men
representative of different fronts and
phases of it should be preserved on gramo-
phone records. If this is to be done no
time should be lost, fo'r already one of the
17 who were named, “Pompey” Elliott, has
been removed by death. On Bean s list
were six other generals: Birdwood, Monash,
Cliauvel, Glasgow, White and Gellibrand.
The others suggested were Lieut.-Col.
Murray, V.C., the most decorated man in
the A.1.F.; outstanding Y.C.’s in Captain
Jacka, Major Joynt, Ljeut. McCarthy and
Sergt. McDougall; Lt.-Col. White, M.H.R.,
representing the Mesopotamian front,
Admiral Glossop for the Navy and the
Emden scrap; Major Murray Jones tor
the Flying Corps in Palestine and France;
Colonel Cass (Krithia, Lone Pine and
Fromelles), and Colonel Butler for the
medical services.
“Bloggs”: “How much money do you
carry about wfith you?” asked a Sydney paper
the other day; but it supplied only comic
answers. The problem lias a serious psycho-
logical interest. Very rich men hate the
feel of money, as a rule; and the richer they
are tlio loss they carry. Pre-war kings never
carried any at all. Alphonso of Spain told
a London interviewer that he “admired the
handsome English sovereign but had neve
had one in bis pocket.” Ed. VII. used t
make a similar boast. Australia had a
least one millionaire Governor who neve
carried money—Governor-General Dudley—
and there is an ancient story of a Rothschih
who' got on a Piccadilly horse ’bus and found
he hadn’t the necessary penny. Gamblers
love the feel of money, and usually carry
a lot irrespective of whether they are about
to bet or settle in cash. So do crooks, irre-
spective of whether they want to' impress
prospective victims. Spendthrifts carry
money: misers don’t. Real-life misers are
entirely different, by the way, from the tradi-
tional stage ones who are shown gloating
over their hoards. Of course they may gloat
over their bank-books, but that isn’t the
same thing.
* * * *
“Marsh”: The recent exploit of three
women in tramping from Sydney to Brisbane
in search of employment secured some notice
in the dailies. But the spectacle of a woman
on the wallaby is becoming common enough
in much harder surroundings- During the
past six months I’ve met at least a score
on Queensland roads, and a thing that im-
pressed me more than anything was the
refined manners of most of them. Some were
on their way to the cotton-growing districts,
but two with whom I chatted seemed to have
no fixed goal; one of them had been a typist,
the other a governess. It’s hard lines for a
man to take to the road with bluey, but it’s
a poor advt. for Australia and our bone-
headed politicians when young women are
compelled to do the same.
“Oran”: The polite burglar materialised
the other day in a suburban home. When
her husband telephoned that he was working
late the nervous young wife replied that she
would go over to mother’s to tea and return
under escort at night. As an afterthought
she left a note on the table which ran : “Look
in the safe and you will find, a lovely pie
for your supper.—Gertie.” With an escort-
ing brother she arrived home first, to find
the place had been overhauled and bereft
of most of its valuables. The only clue was
a brief addition to her note: “Thanks, Gertie.
That pie was 0.K.”
“Critic”: Extract from aS. Aus. country
newspaper:—
It is quite time the fanner woke up to his interests
and not be buffeted about like a hair in the wind,
when he is the salt of the earth, and without his
help all things would fail.
Also he shouldn’t allow himself to he used
as a catspaw to get the thin end of the
wedge into the last straw on the camel s back.
“Blotteau”: Talking of corrupted pub
signs (B. 30/9/’3l), I wonder whether
“Jean Eougier” ever came across that hos-
telry in Kent bearing the legend “The Devil
and the Bag o’ Nails,” and underneath a
picture of old Nick running with the iron-
mongery slung across his shoulder.. Ihe
story, vouched for by the landlord, is tha
originally the tavern was known as feature
and the Bacchanals,” and flaunted a sign
depicting the god surrounded by his bibu-
lous satellites. The inn was destroyed b
fire, and when it was rebuilt years later 1
rose from the ashes under its present quaint
title.
RATTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“During an all-night sitting of the N.S.W. Assem-
bly last week a Labor member was relieved of his
watch and chain and gold pass while he slept peace-
fully on a couch in the smoking-room.”
His eyelids drooped in drowsiness. And
surely,
AS on the couch his weary frame he laid,
He might have thought to snatch a snooze
securely
Upon the premises where laws are made.
Yet never roysterer, sunk in slumber vinous,
Could worse have fared in the dim-lit
Domain.
He woke to find his aureate pass a minus,
Likewise his watch and chain.
In dreams he not improbably meandered
Along the edge of problems dark and deep,
Like Britain sliding off standard;
And someone pushed him off it in his sleep.
The flight of capital and woes Unnumbered
That spring therefrom occasioned him
regret.
But the unkindest touch was, while he slum-
bered,
His own should do a get.
Well, there’s an item Shakspeare somewhere
dockets:
Good name is the possession paramount
A thief may filch. What’s merely in your
pockets
Is of comparatively small account.
The looted sleeper’s torch won’t fade or
flicker,
H'e’ll lose no kudos with his caste or class,
Because some artful dodger nailed bis ticker
And nicked his railway pass.
One sympathises with him in his losses,
The more unfeignedly because, for once,
He cannot blame capitalistic bosses
Or banks unduly loath to part with bunco.
And where, I’d ask, is safety when a robber
Can pussyfoot along in quest of pelf
And frisk a snoring legislator’s clobber
In Parliament itself?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


CO
CO
CO
anaarU o 1 Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock AVheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD.. Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO OF ATTSTRAT acta rm ei „
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
ps®
Members of the BRITISH MEDICAL
ASSOCIATION are granted a special
discount of 20 per cent, under our
Medical Practitioners’ Policy
which covers ALL SICKNESSES and
ALL Personal Accidents.
IMPORTANT FEATURES.
This Policy contains greater benefits, at a lower premium, than those issued by other Companies.
Blood-poisoning contracted through a wound is treated BY US as an accident, and in the event of
Death within 90 days the full capital sum is payable,
Hernia if not post-operative is construed BY US as disablement by accident, provided such Hernia
is contracted and surgically treated during the currency of the Policy.
Write for further particulars to
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association, Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in the principal cities of the Commonwealth and Dominion of New Zealand.
Assets exceed £3,000,000. GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Bulletin lost a loyal colleague and
a sound journalist when Bert Toy died last
week, aged 53. He was a sub-editor on this
paper when the “Woman’s Mirror” was pro-
jected, and he -was its first editor; he re-
mained in that office until his death,
although, during the last year, ill-health,
agonising at times, laid him aside for many
months. Born at Cobar and brought up out
back, he was a fine. horseman, a great
nature-student (in his Bulletin days he
had charge of “Aboriginalities”) and a
notable athlete—he was an inter-State
lacrosse player, and as a swimmer was in
the champion class. While still quite a
youngster he went to the S’African War for
a syndicate of Westralian newspapers, and
did such sterling work that on his return
he was at once put on senior and special
work. There was no more popular man
among pressmen; in his own office he had
the affection of everyone.
Langdon Bonython, of Adelaide, will be
S 3 next week (15th) ; and it is quite likely
that he will sit in the “Advertiser” office
half through the night watching the proofs—
he certainly would have done it up to the
time he made a fine sale of most of the pro-
perty to the Melbourne “Herald” group.
Lang, never so happy as when he is throwing
a brick, suggested the other day that Bony-
thon was an unpatriotic person who had
asked for payment of £218,000 N.S.W. bonds
which fell due on August 10. One other
thing Lang might have mentioned but care-
fully didn’t: Bonython did not ask for cash
from any other State or the Commonwealth.
Instead, he voluntarily converted over a mil-
lion and a half of their bonds —the largest
sum converted by any individual.
William Downie Stewart, of Dunedin, is
the son of a father of the same name who
in his day was a great political power in
Maoriland. William the younger is a scho-
larly lawyer, who has travelled widely. He
saw a bit of the Chino-Japanese war, and
still suffers from the effects of his experiences
in the Great War, an interlude which cut
short his first Parliamentary session. In
1920 Massey made him Minister of Customs.
Gordon Coates added to that the Fiiiance
portfolio, and to these two. with the Attorney-
M.L. Finance Minister
DOWN IE STEWART.
Generalship superimposed, Stewart returns in
the National Cabinet. He has shown con-
siderable ability as a financier and probably
is better suited by present conditions than by
the old days of lavish borrowing. He has
built up a Parliamentary reputation for being
very sure of his facts.
John Alfred Northmore is the fifth Chief
Justice Westralia has had since it secured
full governing rights in 1890. The first was
Alexander Onslow, who had risen to the
Bench in the early ’eighties, when a single
Judge was about all the colony needed;
Edward Stone succeeded him; then came
Stephen Parker; in 1913 Robert McMillan
began the term which was cut short by
death a few T months ago. Onslow and McMil-
lan came from England ; Stone and Parker
were Westralians. Northmore was born in
Adelaide 65 years ago, and started his pro-
fessional career there.
Jack Kean, organising sec. of the Vic.
A.L.P., who has been appointed a State
Savings Bank Commissioner by the Hogans
is a brother-in-law of Priminister Sculhn
Premier Hogan sought to have him chosen
when the late Bob Ross was selected by a
majority of the Cabinet. For 12 years Kean
was sec. of Ballarat Trades and Labor Coun-
cil, and for a while (like Scullin) was editor
of the late lamented Ballarat “Evening
Echo.” The other vacancy on the Savings
Bank Board will be filled by J. C. Gates,
formerly general manager of James Spicer
and Sons and a member of the Employers
Federation.
Scotch Col-
lege (Melb.)
will be 80 next
week (17th),
and there is to
be a birthday
dinner at which
a portrait of
the chairman of
the college
council, Jo h n
M a c F arland,
scholar, admin-
istrator and
knight, will be
presented to
him. The ven-
erable Chancel-
lor, who had his
own 80th birth-
day earlier in
the year, is a
Scotsman from
Ireland —around
Belfast, of
course. He
came to Aus-
ti'alia as Master
of Ormond, and
was there for 84
years.
The collec-
tions made by
British royal-
ties who have
visited Maori-
land during the
last three de-
cades include
carvings of Tene
Waitere, whose
spirit hopped
off Cape Reinga
for the ElySian
’Varsity Chancellor
MACFARLAND.
fields the other day. The old man (he was
77) was the last of the craftsmen of the
Arawa tribe, whose secrets of the carving
art descended from father to son through
many generations.
Passed out, at Wellington, P. 0. Freeth,
a journalist who wielded a lively pen. In
the early years of the century he was editor
and part proprietor of the “Manawatu Daily
Times.” He sold out in 1907 and after a
tour of the world became managing editor of
the now dead “N. Z. Times.” For a while
his associate was W. T. Mills, the Socialist
professor from Milwaukee, and under
the Freeth-Mills regime Wellington got a
thorough grounding in Socialist tenets. The
ownership and the policy of the “Times”
changed and Freeth became editor of the
highly-ortliodox Christchurch “Star,” a job
which he didn’t find particularly happy, so
he returned to his old paper in Palmerston
North. In 1922 he joined the staff of
“S. M. Herald,” but ill-health compelled him
to retire after a few months; his sou,
Hugo, is now on the “S.M.H.” One
of the most cheerful, quick-witted and genial
of men, Pierce Freeth made friends wherever
he went. Sixty at the end of the day’s work.
“Wiriging”: The pearling North-West is
losing its pioneers. Died recently at Hed-
land, W. T. Banger, the only white pearler
faithful to the coast south of Broome. He was
a gentlemanly little philosopher, and nobody
would have suspected him of an adventurous
youth spent in schooners between Thursday
Island and Cossack. Another who has gone
west was Pat P. Percy (“P.P.”) of Broome,
who in his day was policeman, publican,
pearler, patentee of a pearl-box and even an
aspiring politician. For years Percy lived on
his schooner Gwendoline anchored in the creek
at Broome, with his wife as mate and crew,
and a sail out every year to comply with
the licensing regulations. He it was in his
young days who brought back from Java
the pirate-mutineers and murderers of Cap-
tain Riddell.
Crawford Vaughan, sometime Labor Pre-
mier of S.A., has decided to have another shot
at Parliament where he is known best. He
will stand for the Adelaide Federal seat as a
Lyons-Latham supporter.
Bob Ross, that strenuous mixture of jour-
nalist., politician, propagandist and literary
man, left two brilliant sons. One is
a professor at Otago University, Maoriland.
The other is treading in the parental foot-
steps on the Barrier “Daily Truth,” which
his late dad edited many years ago.
Prof. Park, dean of the mining faculty at
Otago Uni., has just retired at 74. He made
both the School of Mines at the Thames and
the Otago Uni. Milling School centres of
.'geological and metallurgical knowledge, and
['his textbooks are world renowned. Park is an
jAberdonian who landed in M.L. in 1875.
'Acting under instructions from the Allies lie
had a look over mining properties in N.S.W.,
the Gulf of Carpentaria and New Caledonia
during the war.
Willie Watt, whom people will persist in
regarding as a young man, will become a
sexagenarian next month. He is immersed
in company business these days
Justice David Gilbert Ferguson, who has
just stepped down from the N.S.W. Supreme
Court Bench at the statutory threescore and
ten, started to earn his living on the Inky
Way; he was on the staff of the old Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” nearly 50 years ago, and
later he recorded the eloquence of N.S.W. and
Queensland politicians as a “Hansard” man.
It wasn’t till he was 29 that he was “called.”
John Maynard Hedstrom, whose marriage
in Fiji is reported, is the head of one of the
oldest and best-known South Sea trading
firms. . Born in Levuka in 1872, he was edu-
cated in Melbourne. He sits in the Legis-
lative Council in Fiji as representative of
the Eastern Division, and has been a member
of the Executive Council since 1917, his
knighthood following five years later. Few
know more about the Western Pacific, and
in his leisure hours he is a keen golfer and
fisherman.
Melbourne solicitor Whitley Strong, who
got the call last week, was one of the con-
tingent of Mounted Rifles sent from Vic. to
London in 1897 for the old Queen’s diamond
jubilee. He fought against the Boers, first in
the Bushmen’s Corps and then as adjutant
to the 4th Contingent. His dad was an aider-
man in Melbourne City Council for years.
Medical men, wearing themselves out in
keeping other people well, are not a long-
lived class; Dr. Horace Button, who has died
at Roseville (Sydney) at the age of 83, was
pretty well the doyen of the profession in
N.S.W. He was admitted M.R.C.S. 61 years
ago, started practising at Invercargill
(M.L.) and then passed to Blackall (Q.)
and Junee (N.S.W.), where he spent the
last 30 years.
Before Norbert Keenan accepted the port-
folio of Chief Secretary in the Mitchell
Ministry, this particular job had almost
come to be earmarked for the leader of the
Government in the Leg. Council; J. M. Drew
held it through several Labor Adminis-
trations. Keenan’s resignation sends the
Chief Secretaryship back to the Upper
House, where C. D. Baxter, his successor,
has been looking after some minor adminis-
trative jobs. Baxter was the first West-
ralian to be elected on the C.P. ticket. He
held office as an honorary in Nat.-Cocky
Governments a good many years back. The
Westralian Constitution stipulates for one
Government representative in the Leg.
Council, and with that the Council generally
has to be content. He may be anything
except Attorney-General.
David Gilbert Ferguson, Judge of the
Supreme. Court of N. S. Wales for 20 years
and Senior Puisne Judge for some time past,
being on the threshold of 70, “turned the
last page” at the week-end, and left his
record for the judgment of those who come
after him. He need have no fears: there
never was a juster Judge, nor one held in
higher esteem. The only complaint ever
made about him was that he could be too
Justice FERGUSON.
lenient; but if sometimes he seemed lenient
it may have been because he knew more
than his critics and saw farther. He was
a tower of strength on the Common Law
side, and his learning and industry were
joined to an unfailing courtesy and helpful-
ness which endeared him especially to mem-
bers of the Junior Bar.
Mark Anthony Davidson, Lang’s Minister
for Works, has the job of making three into
four go five times. Originally the Sydney
Harbor Bridge was to cost “about four mil-
lions” ; then it climbed to 54; now we shall
be lucky if it isn’t past 10. Part of Mark
Anthony’s job is to find out who can be
stung for the extra interest, etc., without
making Lang’s chances of re-election bluer
than ever; and he is making rough weather
THE NEW HORATIUS.
of it. Incidentally, Mark Anthony
(“Charley” for short) has to take some in-
terest in “the opening of the joint”; and
that is right out of his line. He used to
be a miner at Cobar until he had an eye
knocked out: then with his mates' help he
started a small shop. There he talked and
talked until he found himself in Parliament.
The late William Orpen will be better
remembered for his satire than his paint-
ing. His picture of a naked woman,
a priest and an Irish peasant doing
nothing in particular raised a storm
when it was purchased by the Adel-
aide Gallery. It was eventually re-
moved to the vaults, and the artist was
asked to supply something different. The
picture finally landed in private hands in
Melbourne, and was resurrected at a loan
exhibition in aid of the unemployed, when
it proved just as much a riddle to the public
as ever. Another opus was a commissioned
picture of the Versailles Conference. After
the portraits of the Peacemakers had been
completed Orpen’s Irish irony suddenly got
the better of him, and he painted out the
great men, replacing them with the ghosts of
two British soldiers. Its intended owners
promptly lost interest in it, and it went to
the Royal Academy, where it caused a great
sensation.
John Monash, Australia’s most distin-
guished soldier and one of her most distin-
guished citizens, is reported seriously ill at
his Toorak home. Until a few weeks ago
the General, who was 66 last June, had
always enjoyed robust health, but a heart
attack,, the severity of which was not at first
recognised, laid him up quite recently.
Few signatures were more familiar in the
“S.* M. Herald’s” correspondence columns
than that of the Rev. Father Clarke, of
Auburn, who died last week at 72. He was
a divine of wide reading, adept at. contro-
versy, and whenever a sectarian dispute arose
it was a. labor of love for him to set forth
the opinion of his Church and buttress it
with arguments and authorities. Father
Clarke was the son of an Anglican minister
in Ireland and a T.C.D. graduate; he himself
took Anglican orders in 1882; after seven
years he resigned them and was received into
the Roman Catholic Church. The last 21
years of his life were spent on this side of
the world, in Maoriland, Queensland and
N. S. Wales.
Although the cutting off of loan money
has cramped his style lately, Charles Harold
Fethney, Commissioner Clapp’s superintend-
ing engineer, has had a hand in the expendi-
ture of more than £15,000,000 in bridge-
building and track maintenance on the Vie.
railways since he started, a raw engineering
student, in 1889. He played a big part in
the huge scheme for the electrification of
the Melbourne railways, erecting most of
the sub-stations throughout the suburban
area ; he designed and constructed the Totten-
ham gravitation yards, and added a mass, of
equipment to the Newport workshops, in
which all locomotive construction and repair
work is carried on. Fethney represents the
railways on the Town-Planning Commission.
F. W. Bullock, the Adelaide land-agent,
who died in May, left £4OOO in Victoria and
£51.000 in S.A. He had also hopefully
acquired a whole lot of N.T. land, at present
of no practical value whatever.


The WILD CAT
COIUMN
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re-
June, Profits. (Pref. and Old.) serves. Reserves.
£> £*
1920.. 33,999 15 p.c. = 25,312 8.637 37,083
Co. reconstructed: £90,000 of
bonus shares issued (one in three).
Accounts for 1921 not available.
1922.. 57,513 124 p.c. = 41,203 16,310 6,421
1923.. 71,090 124 „ ~ 46,500 24.596 31,017
1924.. 75,207 10 „ ~41,625 33,582 64,599
1925.. 39,838 8 „ „ 36,750 3,088 67,687
1926.. 64.981 10 „ ~ 50,000 14,981 82.668
1927.. 79,813 11 ~ ~55,000 24,813 107,481
1928.. 71,600 10 „ „ 50,000 21,600 129,081
1929.. 67,806 10 „ „ 50,000 17,806 146,887
1930.. 51,980 8 „ ~40,000 11,980 158,867
1931.. 31,003 5* ~ ~27,221 3,782 162,649
*Prefs. 74 p.c.
Retailers adopted a hand-to-mouth policy,
and there was some price-cutting, due to a
scramble for ready cash in the trade. So.
although * the business held well, and new
lines were developed and costs reduced, there
was a slip of £19,067 in gross profits
(£48,806). Exes. (£17,803, including pro-
vision for taxation and doubtful debts) were
£l9lO heavier, leaving the net result at 5.5
p.c. on capital as against 10.3, 13.5, 14.3,
15.9 and 12.9 p.c. back to 1926. After the
minimum pref. requirements (£750) had been
attended to, the ord. div., which averaged 11
p.c. for the nine years to the close of
accounts in 1929, was reduced from 8 p.c. to
5 p.c.
The emergency tariff and import prohibi-
tions were expected to give an impetus to
local textile concerns, but other factors have
brought about under-consumption, and most
mills are now producing well below capacity.
Still, as economic reconstruction proceeds,
prospects for local manufacturers should
brighten ; and those best organised technically
and financially should be the first to benefit.
A.K.M. is chief of an enterprising group
with ramifications in practically every line
of the textile trade. It specialises' in under-
wear itself; Yarra Falls turns out the yarns,
and makes woollens and worsteds as well;
Austral Silk and Cotton, formed in 1927,
produces cotton yarns and fabrics; the latest
additions. Julius Kayser (Aust.) Pty. and
Rayon l*ty., cover the silk hosiery and lin-
gerie field. A.K.M.’s holdings in these con-
cerns comprise 318.500 ords. in Yarra Falls,
25,480 shares in the Cotton Co., 40,000 in
Kayser’s and an undisclosed but small
number in Rayon. The lot figured iii the sheet
at £384,176 at June 30. During the year
Yarra Falls paid 5 p.c.; no hint is given as
to what contribution, if any, the others made
to the pool.
There is nothing uneasy about the finances:
1917 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £60,000 £500,000 £500,000 £550,000
Liabilities . . ' 3,845 55,045 154,713 47,580
Property, plant 28,893 293,897 204,799 19(1476
Stocks .. 23,170 143,697 150,031' 125(862
Book debts .. 12,347 63,942 77,209 58,346
Cash, etc. .. 24,818 5,362 269 9,245
Associated f Shares Nil 318,696 344,176 384,176
cos. 1 Adv’cs 52,096
The £50,000 of fresh capital was put up by
Yarra Falls. This, the repayment of ad-
vances to associated cos. and reductions of
£24,169 in stocks and £18,863 in debtors’
balances enabled £107,133 to be chopped off
the outside debt, 40(000 shares in the Kayser
co. to be taken up and £8359 to be put into
the bank. Altogether there was an improve-
ment of £20,981. in the more or less liquid
surplus (£145,873, including stocks). Inci-
dentally, Marks and Saulwick, who are
interested in the hosiery and lingerie
members of the group, have also undertaken
the distribution of A.K.M. products on a
commission basis, accepting responsibility for
bad debts.
On the market A.K.M.’s pound shares are
at par as against 18s. a year ago. The back-
ing is 255. lid. in net tangibles, mainly
plant, etc.
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
r~ Dividends-^
Prefs. Ords.f Towards
July, Profits. 9 p.c. 20 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1926*.. 436,099 290,715 104,616
Share premiums, £86,250.. .. 18,366
9 p.c. 171 p.c. Reserves.
1927 .. 328,480 300,916 27,564 9,198
9 p.e. 14 p.c.
1928 .. 275,263 254,877 . 20,386 29,584
9 p.c. 12£ p.c.
1929 .. 265,535 236,159 ’ ' 29,376 58,960
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 153,960
9 p.c. 8 p.c.
1930 .. 244,505 192,382 52,123 206,083
9 p.c. 6 p.c.
1931 .. 154,296 152,550 1,746 207,829
*lB months. f Including employees’ shares.
Forceful selling methods brought more people
to this big Bourke-street emporium last year.
But, having less money to spend, they bought
lower-priced goods, so turnover was lighter.
Also, a steady fall in prices forced cuts in
most lines to ensure quick clearances and
avoid losses, while primage, sales and other
taxes made it yet more difficult to earn a
satisfactory profit on the balance of trans-
actions. However, savings aggregating
£124,000 were made in exes., and, after pay-
ing the tax bill (£53,625) and meeting the
staff partnership and pref. requirements
(together £66,300), enough remained to show
5.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against 10.9, 14.6,
15.5 and 19.5 p.c. back to 1927. So the div.,
which had dropped from 174 p.c. in 1927 to
124 p.c. in 1929, and then to 8 p.c., was
reduced to 5 p.e.
It was an encouraging performance con-
sidering the circumstances. But trading con-
ditions, which economic changes and the
transfer of Foys and others from the suburbs
to the city and the coming of Coles into
Bourke-street have altered - completely, remain
in a state of flux. The fall in sterling has
pat a little stiffening into the price of our
staples through the exchanges, but they are
an obviously insecure prop. So far as can be
seen, which is not very far at the moment,
trading promises to continue difficult, unem-
ployment acute, taxation onerous and profits
slender. So, to relieve the pressure of fixed
interest charges and thus improve prospects
for the ords., a cut in the prof. div. is sug-
gested, though nothing definite has yet been
put forward. In N. S. Wales the cut has
been made by law.
The staff has agreed to a reduction of 4 p.c.,
leaving the div. at 6 p.c. on its shares —
99.500, paid to £77.136. There are 655.450
prefs. in a paid capital of £2.457,556. They
were mostly issued since 1920, carry a fixed
cumulative 9 p.c. and call for £58,991 p.a.,
which was covered 2.6 times by last
year’s net profit. Over the last 11
years the ords. have averaged 11.5 p.e.,
sweetened with a three-for-two gift in
the reconstruction of 1925, though share
premiums take some of the gilt off the
gingerbread. One danger is that the present
rate of pref. div. may keep the ords. below
par. on the market, making it difficult to
raise fresh ord. capital, and so interfere
with the satisfactory financing of the busi-
ness in the future. Still, earnings may some
day again give the ords. rich returns, and
the possibilities of inflation have not entirely
disappeared, so some right to participation
in future benefits would be a fair thing in
return for preference concessions now. Deci-
sion in the matter rests with the prefs :
Encouraged by the continued growth of the
business, the board is pushing ahead with
its new building programme:—
1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £1.670,978 £2,454,338 £2,457,586
Mortgages.. .. 531,014 702,300 677,900
Sundry creditors .. 588,451 333,191 378,464
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. .. 1,266,536 1,736,066 1,774,244
Plant, vehicles, etc. 171,925 190,205 167,595
Shares in other cos. 180,997 485,997 487.647
Stocks .. .. 962.480 1,079,886 1,015,823
Debtors .. .. 233,105 281,006 253.158
Cash, etc 8,094 12,579 105,527
During the year £38,178 net was added to
the book value of freeholds, etc., £24,400 was
snipped off mortgages and £25,762 off the
amount coming to trade creditors and the
bank (£228,564), while cash, etc., mainly
London balances, was strengthened by £92,948.
To do all this an extra £71,035 of deposits
(£149,900) was gathered, and the stocks and
debtors’ items were reduced by £64,063 and
£27,54S respectively. The more or less liquid
surplus (£318,144, including stocks) slipped
£18.836.
Shareholdings consist chiefly of scrip in
the. co.’s woollen mills at Ballarat, and in
the Myer Emporium (S.A.). The latter,
which used to be James Marshall and Co., has
not yet paid a div. on the ords. —200,000
bought for 30s. apiece in 1928 —but prospects
are brighter.
On the market the parent’s ords. fetch
16s. 6d.; the return at that figure is 6 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 225. 4d.
in net tangibles. The prefs. fetch 21s. 9d.; at
which figure the return is 8.2 p.c. from a
9 p.c. div.. or 6.4 p.c. should the distribution
be lowered to 7 p.c. The cover is £4 Is. 4d.
in net tangibles.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. . Reserves. Deficit.
•£ £> £* £
1923.. 53,977 10 p.e. = 4.3,375 10,602 64,185
Loss on Cobdogla plant, £23,583 .. 87,768
N.Z. establishment exes., £2038 .. 89,806
1924.. 17,556 Nil 17,556 72,250
Additional goodwill, £390 . . 72,640
1925.. 42,961 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,961 64,679
Additional goodwill, £257 ~ 64,936
1926.. 40,209 8 p.e. = 40,000 209 64,727
Additional goodwill, £l2O . . 64,847
1927.. 47,884 8 p.c. = 40,000 7,884 56,963
1928.. 53,229 8 „ „ 40,000 13,229 43,734
Shares in other cos. written up,
£76,455; added assets fluctuation
reserve, £31,455 .. .. .. 12,279
Reserves.
1929.. 54,996 8 p.e. = 40,000 14,996 2,717
1930.. 54,565 6 „ 30,000 24,565 27,282
1931.. 17,147 Nil 17,147 44,429
Earnings depend very largely upon Govern-
ment contracts; hence the co.’s plants slowed
down as public loan funds gave out and the
volume of private orders diminished, whilst
competition forced further reduction in sell-
ing prices. So, although four additional
factories were set up—mobile equipment is
erected wherever work offers —the net result
was £37,418 short of the previous year’s
at 3.4 p.c. on the half-million capital com-
pared with 10.9, 11, 10.6, 9.5, 8 and 8.5 p.c.
back to 1925. No div. was paid, but reserves
were lifted to £44,429 in excess of intangibles
(£68,000). That is leaving out of the reckon-
ing a net reduction of £12,207 in the taxa-
tion and contingency account (£33,519), with
the depreciation reserve unchanged at
£50,000. But too much notice need not be
taken of these paper accumulations; more
important is the state of the co.’s finances,
prospects of employment for the chief earn-
ing asset (the plant), and the outlook for
the subsidiary interests.
There is nothing uncomfortable about the
finances: —
1921. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £322,515 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 112,443 49,996 32,152
Freeholds . . . . 38,838 60,783 62,066
Buildings, plant, etc. . . 92,478 224,373 243,486
Stocks 80,187 91,765 94,331
Uncompleted work . . 39,132 2,987
Book debts . . . . 47,771 101,645 57,623
Loan 28,838 58,292
Cash, etc 17,178 44,471 15,658
Shares in other cos. 46,825 128,144 128,644
During the year £19,113 more was spent on
plant, etc., than was written off. a further
£29,454 was advanced at call to Ilume Steel,
and £17,844 was clipped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors. To do all this
cash was drawn upon for £28,813, and
debtors’ balances were reduced by £44,022.
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£193,752. including stocks but not shares)
slipped £25,958.
The world-wide nature of the slump has
dulled prospects for the subsidiaries, too.
Hume Steel, which has passed on a lot of
business to the parent, is feeling the pinch ;
it has not yet paid a div. on its ords., of
which the parent holds 165.000 at a cost of
£416. The Steel Co. recently threw off a sub-
sidiary of its own to sell its foreign rights,
and these have been placed for S. Africa,
British Columbia and part of the U.S.A.
Much will depend upon how things pan out
in this connection. The Singapore Co., the
most successful of the Hume group, paid lo
p.c. on its ords., of which the parent holds
10,000 ; but the position in the tin and rubber
markets is expected to react on earnings.
Further contraction in the parent’s figures
is expected during the current term. Hence
the pound shares, which fetched over 21s. a
couple of years ago, are now priced at 6s. 6d.
At that figure the return would be 7.7 p.c.
on a 24 p.c. div. basis.
Samuel Allen and Sons, Ltd.
Towards De-
June, Profit. ( -Dividends —— ficit.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 40,274 74 p.c. = 37,500* 2774 11,522
1922.. 37,943 74 „ „ 37,500* 443 11,079
Pref.
8 p.e.
£
1923.. 38,130 406 74 p.c. =37,500* 224 10,855
1924.. 43,677 6,023 74 ~,, 37,500* 154 10,701
1925.. 41,457 11,177 8 „ ~26,000 4280 6,421
1926.. 49,358 13,687 9 ~ ~29,250 6421
Reserves.
Inner reserves disclosed, £10,000.. 10,000
1927.. 50,213 14.920 9 p.c. =29,250 6043 16,043
1928.. 48,492 15,025 9 „ „ 29,250 4217 20,260
1929.. 43,794 15,736 9 „ ~ 29,250 18,968
1930.. 33,005 16,000 3i „ ~ 11,375 5630 24,598
Loss.
1931.. 20,357 Nil Nil 4,241
*Divs. paid on face value of scrip and excess
over 5 p.c. transferred to capital.
This old-established wine and spirit and
merchandising concern was put on its legs by
Samuel Allen at Townsville over half a
century ago. Of recent years it developed
a considerable indenting and agency busi-
ness in the southern capitals. But the
exchange position and the tariff made this
unprofitable, prospects of an early recovery
are not bright, and finances are none too
robust; so the board decided to shut up
shop in Brisbane, Sydney and. Melbourne
during the last term and confine activities
to North Queensland,' where turnover and
results are said to be more favorable.
Realisations resulted in considerable loss.
After reducing the book value of stocks by
£32,036 and debtors’ balances by £17,421
there was a slip of £62,786 in gross profits
(£113,870). Exes. (£134,236) were only
£0424 lighter, so the balance was struck at
£20,357 on the wrong side of the ledger. Thus
the book value of the support and protection
for £525,000 of capital was reduced to £4241
at June 30.
It is intended to change the method of
trading from a credit to a cash basis, and
to set up a chain of stores for the purpose.
It is thus hoped to improve earnings, reduce
overhead and render the debts question less
disturbing. Here is the position as balance-
sheet figures disclose it: —
1922 1927 1930. 1931
Paid capital.. £287,500 £512,000 £525,000 £525,000
Overdraft .. 81,919 116,922 121,341 118,688
Deposits, eto. 107,707 136,913 83,491 79,583
Freeholds .. 76,669 201,053 243,529 262,713
Shares in other
cos. . . 29,420 35,242 14,623 9,978
Stocks .. 95,352 153,486- 99,103 67,067
Book debts .. 279,891 414,201 405,175 387,754
Cash .. .. 9,717
The progress of the change over as well as
results will be largely governed by the
liquidation of book debts, which, are not'the
assets they were a few years ago. It may be
a while before many of the co.’s clients are
able to wipe out their old balances. The
more or less liquid surplus (£256,550, in-
cluding stocks but not share holdings)
slipped £42,896 during the year. The co.’s
prospects should take on a brighter lo.ok
when the outside debt is substantially re-
duced and the management is in a position
to make cash purchases.
There are 200,000 8 p.c. prefs., half firsts
and the other half seconds, which have
priority as to. dividends only. For the firsts
,13s. 6d. is asked, and 4s. is the best offer
for the seconds. The £350,000 of ord. scrip,
provided mainly out of profits, is still largely
held by family interests. The book value of
the net tangible hacking for all shares is a
■shade over par.
Bebarfalds, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ■, Towards
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.e. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £> ■■£> £ '
1927.. 22,288 8,000 8 p.c. = 16,981 4,205
Reserves.
Assets written up, £66,517 .. .. 62,312
1928.. 8,605 8,000 Nil 605 62,917
1929.. 25,764 10,716 5 p.c. = 10,668 4380 67,297
1930.. 7,478 15,960 Nil 58,815
Loss. . Deficit.
1931.. 90,199 Nil Nil 31,384
The loss is due largely to bad debts, which
hard times bring to all traders. Amongst
the worst sufferers are those who grant
long-term credits; and few have been hit
harder than that section of the furniture
business doing a substantial turnover on a
t.-p. basis. Moreover, a recent amendment
to the N. S. Wales Moratorium Act has
vastly increased the difficulties ordinarily
associated with this class of trading by ex-
tending for two years the repayment of prac-
tically every secured account. This and other
things have restricted the granting of credit,
and, of course, the slump in prices and the
almost complete stoppage of home and other
building, and the furnishing that goes with
it, have had their effect, too.
After taking stocks into the sheet at
£30,786 below the 1930 figure, there was a
sharp drop of £82,940 in gross profits
(£91,172). The weight of fixed charges
(interest, rates and taxes, £40,479) made
themselves felt, and, after writing off £50,137
for bad debts, etc., known and unascertained,
the balance was struck at £90,199 on the
wrong side of the ledger. No divs. were
paid, and reserves of £58,815 at the previous
balance were displaced by a deficit of
£31384; that is disregarding goodwill
(£33,393) as an asset.
The future is obscure. The inevitable cur-
tailment of credit will restrict turnover,
while the pressure of the debt and of rates
and taxes will continue to make themselves
felt, and recent legislation and the possibility
of. inflation have increased the uncer-
tainty of the debts question. Obviously
much depends upon the adequacy or
otherwise of the contingency fund. Still,
when things settle down, credit-buying may
revive, though it seems unlikely that it will
bp practised on the same scale as of recent
years. It is unfortunate that, just as the
co. put up fine new premises, the business
was further dislocated and disturbed by re-
sumptions in connection with the widening
of Park-street and the construction of the
City Railway; completion of this latter is
expected to mean a lot to the co, though there
is no certainty about it. • .
Besides getting in £99,500 of fresh prof,
capital the co. leant heavily on outsiders to
finance the new building, and the floating
debt now overshadows the whole position
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £312,205 £408,070 £412,895 £412,900
Overdraft 1 no , Q 1 J 142,83 S 173.013 176,910
Sun. cred’rs ( 99,, » 91 1 46,313 109,597 81,175
Freehold, etc. 126,306. 306,237 336,009 341,108
Plant . . 16,353 21,328 27,787 23,561
Stocks . . 102,356 104,614 110,228 79,442
Book debts, etc. 195,724 254,099 285,339 195,259
Investments .. 1,000 1,025 1,000 238
The reduction in stocks and book debts the
latter due mainly to the writing off already
referred to —enabled £28,422 to be wiped oft
the amount coming to sundry creditors. The
overdraft, secured by a mortgage over the
freeholds, was increased slightly. Including
stocks, the more or less liquid .surplus fell
back to £16,848, which was £97,109 less
than at the previous balance.
There are 100,000 A and 99,500 B 8 p.c.
cum. prefs., ranking for capital and divs. in
the order stated, and 218,400 ords. The
ords. are all held privately. The book value
of the net tangible cover for the A shares
is £3 16s. 3d., and the B’s, £2 16s. 9d. The
A’s are priced at 4s. on the market; the
B’s have not been quoted for some time.
Rolfe and Co., Ltd. (Vic.)
Net f Dividends , Towards De-
Profit. Pref. Ord. Deserves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 16,148 8,000 6 p.c. = 6100 3048 27,899
1924.. 5,924 4,000 Nil 1924 25,975
1925.. 1,936 Nil Nil 1936 24,039
1926.. 9,425 8,000 Nil 1425 22,614
1927.. 11,702 12,000 Nil 22,912
1928.. 16,124 16,000 Nil 124 22,788
1929.. 8,070 8,000 21 p.c. =2125 24,837
1930.. 5,712 Nil Nil 5712 19,125
1931.. 1,178 Nil Nil 1178 17,947
This wholesale grocer and tea-merchant,
which has strong connections in Vic. and
the Riyerina, is still doing no good for itself.
Profits picked up about three _ years ago.
arrears of pref. divs. were paid off, and
holders of the ords. became hopefiil. Turn-
over had increased, and it was claimed that
book debts had at last been got on to a
satisfactory basis.
But owing to the collapse of prices many
farmers and others have been unable to pay
the retailers’ bills, and the wholesaler is
obliged to use much of liis funds in carrying
retailers’ stocks. Also the demand for dry
goods has been restricted to the cheaper lines,
which carry margins too narrow to support
costs on their present basis. Thus both
classes of shareholders have gone hungry for
the last two years.
Moreover, the co. has well-established com-
petitors to fight, and it may be some time
before satisfactory profits re-emerge. So, the
Government having set the fashion, the ques-
tion of a reduction in the pref. div. has been
raised. It seems unlikely, however, that any-
thing will come of the suggestion. Apart from
legislation, only the pref. holders themselves
can decide the matter; they hold 100,000. £1
shares, 8 p.c. cumulative, in a paid capital
of £185,000, and £24,000 in accrued divs.
will he coming to them at. the close of
next accounts. The net tangible cover was
no more than 335. 4d. (book value) at June
30 —goodwill figures at £35.000. All things
considered the 8 p.c. is a moderate rate.
At the close of last accounts the co. was
carrying £16,542 more of customers’ bal-
ances ; but this may have been wholly or
partly due to extension of credit. The .posi-
tion as balance-sheet figures disclose it is as
follows:
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £185,000 £185,000 £185,000 £185,00(1
Mortgage .. 10,783 30,000 30,000 30,00 n
Other liabilities 131,491 79,675 119,530 105,713
Freeholds, etc. 56,236 56,320 57,693 57,766
Plant, etc. .. 10,513 12,357 12,300 10,355
Shares other cos. 10,022 1,135 1,485 2,212
Stocks . . 74.090 68,398 85,992 58,328
Book debts .. 148,206 139,565 155,007 171,549
Cash, etc. .. 4,105 3,940 3,930 3,39.
Stocks were £27,664 lighter, and the amount
coming to sundry creditors, including the
bank, was reduced by £13,817, leaving the
more or less liquid surplus (£97,561, includ-
ing stocks) £2162 stronger than at the close
of accounts in 1930. The whole position
hinges on the soundness of debtors’ balances;
much obviously depends upon the size of the
contingency fund.
On the market the prefs. are offered at
16s. The last recorded quote for the ords.
was 2s.
South Brisbane Gas and Light Co., Ltd.
, Dividends s
Pref; To Re- Re-
June, Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925 6,361 209 7 p.c. = 2450 3702 2,450
1926.. 8,837 4986 7 „ „ 2450 1401 3,861
1927.. 13,605 5244 74 „ „ 2625 5736 9,587
1928. . 14,348 5040 8 ~ ~ 3946 5812 15,399 ■
1929.. 14,300 5052 8 ~ ~ 6247 3001 18,400
1930.. 12,758 5070 8 ~ „ 7157 531 18,931
Written off, £2090 .. -. 16;841
1931.. 16,498 5100 71 p.c. =9890 1508 18,349
Since the hot air was let out of the accounts
in 1924 the hoard has gone good work. It
was handicapped at first by out-of-date
retorts; not until 1930 did the new Glover-
West carbonising plant begin to function.
The benefits show up in last years net re-
sult. After steady growth for some years
gas sales have slipped again, of course; last
year’s figure (£79,932) was £0195 short of
the previous year’s. But that was more than
offset by savings of £9340 in manufacturing
and depreciation charges, and, allowing tor
reserve adjustments, the net result, benefited
by £3740. ‘ So the prefs. got their 6 p.c..
and the balance was 5.7 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 8.6 p.c. the year before. Still, a
point was knocked off the final div. (< P-Cj
p.a.), making 74 p.c. for the year, and £loO<
was carried to reserves, raising them to
£18.349. That is excluding the former depre
ciation and renewals reserve (now £31,J71>.
to which £4471 was added during the term.
The position in respect of depreciation de
pends largely on what has been spent on
plant, etc., and charged to. earnings.
In the 1924 reconstruction £12<,473 was
written off the book value of assets by jetti-
soning three-fourths of the ord. and half tie-
(Continued on pope -6.)


1
* s*.
mu
&& i
i
H
I:'
m
■
s
-\Y
V-.
,1
IS
mi
m
9
> •••
.
1
if
9
■
m %
i ; i
1
I
r
fl
.......
\j
II
.o
■I
I®
■ ■..
■
u
i
■
■
■
i
f ::
M
; : ;-v
11
■
■
:>.V
■
9
W
MB
; '
m
■ W
.
«
■
f-M;
■
U
a
m
m
■
9
■
■
■
■
\
91
I
\
|
N
111
I *
ii
HI
mm
1
1
%
H
!!
9
■
m
M I
I
* I
... J
m
8888888 888888888
■
■
■
■.'S'
m
m
MM
11111
Scotland's Best is the World’s Best
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth parenting- <
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
« * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel.
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
*. * * *
Low initial cost with subsequent savings in freight,
transport, installing and upkeep costs, combined with
a standard of service proved to be absolutely efficient,
emphasises the fact that Pioneer Wood Pipe is the
logical conduit for water supply. Non-corrosive,
light—yet strong and extremely 'durable, I loneev
Wood Pipe possesses outstanding advantages oyer all
other types of piping. Write for full particulars to
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Vic-
toria. —Advt.
* # *
WIRE ROPES— AUSTRALIAN MADE.— Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
Camp;
" I am afraid there will be
very little left * for you
<r-t>
W
t : '
Yet she might have had an
income of £l2 10s. a month.
J 7 VERY Solicitor has had this experience. It is, unhappily,
*—‘ a common one.
Sometimes the woman blames herself. “I would never let him
talk about life assurance. It seemed like talking of death,”
she says. When death comes to her husband she learns her
mistake.
A Life Assurance Policy establishes an immediate estate. The
man who pays but one premium on a £lOOO policy, and dies,
leaves his widow £lOOO. If he lives to a ripe age the policy
will grow in value. It may grow to £2ooo—that depends on
his age and the size of the bonuses. Many a policy has
doubled in this way.
Then there is the new A.M.P. Monthly Income Policy. If
the husband of the widow here pictured had taken out a £lOOO
Monthly Income Policy, even a month before his death, she
would have become entitled to an income of £l2 10s. a month
for twenty years, and then the £lOOO.
Is it fair of any man to neglect such provision for his wife and
family? Let us show how little it will cost. An experienced
officer will be sent to discuss with you if you write or telephone
to Enquiry Officer, at any A.M.P. office. Full particulars
gladly sent by post.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
WITH OFFICES IN THE CAPITAL AND PRINCIPAL
CITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH AND NEW ZEALAND
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A. 1.A., General Manager.
Established
1849.
Assets,
£83,200,000.
AMP
pref. capital (the other half was converted
into ords.) and wiping out £62,473 of paper
reserves. Annual increments have since been
made in the pref. capital, due to the conver-
sion of old debenture stock; there was origi-
nally £lOO,OOO worth of this stock, the froth
of the 1914 writing-up, but only £13,900 of
it remained at June 30. The first lot of
cash-paid capital for over 14 years was put
up in 1927, when an issue of 105,240 ords. of
10s. each provided funds for badly-needed
plant. A further 94,760 ords., put out in
1930, raised capital to its present figure—
£22l,loo in 172,200 prefs. and 270,000 ords.,
all 10s. shares. The 2s. 6d. ords. were con-
solidated into the 10s. denomination during
the last term. Besides the debenture stock
there is £70,000 of other debentures, due in
1934—£50,000 to the bank and £20,000 to
the public. A sinking fund (£11,161), in-
cluded with reserves above, is being built
up for their redemption.
Here is a picture of the business as the
published accounts reflect it:—
IQ2fi IQ9Q 1090 1091
Pref. capital.. £63,494 £84,251 £84,705 £86,10*0
Ord. capital.. 35,000 87,620 120,513 135,000
Debentures .. 106,507 85,749 85,295 83,900
Other creditors 12,199 13,726 48,084 19,623
Freeholds, plant
etc 211,853 278,882 346,714 357,569
Stocks and stores 6,607 7,125 5,716 6,629
Debtors .. 8,875 8,151 9,767 7,707
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 9,972 27,540 29,010 11,800
Of the £145,716 laid out on plant, etc., since
1925, shareholders have put up £lOO,OOO, and
most of the balance hag been provided out
of earnings.
There is much less gloom in Brisbane
than in Sydney, but restoration of this
co.’s 8 p.c. div. may be difficult as well
as unwise before conditions generally become
more settled. On the market the price of
the scrip has been fairly steady over the
last 12 months. At 10s. 6d. the ords. return
6.7 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis; the prefs.
fetch around par.
One of the most successful cos. ever
floated in Australia to work a mine abroad
is Raub, now in its fortieth year and still
going strong. It is operating at four points
on a gold-bearing reef about three miles long
in Pahang, Malay Peninsula. The reduc-
tion plant consists of 50 stamps (40 were at
work last year), two Huntington mills and
cyanide plant; and a suction cutter-dredge
contributes to the pool, too. Treatment
figures for the 12 months to March 31, last
were: milling, 31,620 tons; cyaniding, 6750
tons; dredge, 41,265 c. yards; all for a re-
covery of 22,303.760 z. fine gold, which yielded
a net profit of £41,008. A 20 p.c. div., the
same as in the previous term, took £40,000.
Creditors figured for £11,095; liquids
totalled £70,358, including investments
(£55,026). Another property, about 46 miles
away, is being examined; here work ceased
on 18dwt. stone about 20 years ago, owing
to transport difficulties. Ore reserves are not
disclosed, but they are known to be very
considerable.
In the late 1880’s, Bob Sefton, one of the
pioneers of the Coen goldfield, Cape York,
got the tip from some Chinese fossickers on
the Palmer that there was better country
where they came from in the F.M.S. Sefton
went over and had a look. Then he fell in
with Tom Brown, one-time owner of Blyth-
dale station, near Roma, who had been cut-
ting some ice on the Westralian fields. Capi-
tal was soon found, and Raub has been a
money-spinner ever since. Tom and Bob are
probably prospecting new shows on the
Golden Shore to-day; both finished with
this end of life years ago.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd., has exer-
cised its option over the Native Bear, which
adjoins the Mt. Coolon mine (N.Q.), bought
by the co. a year ago. The Bear was sold by
the original prospector, James Barclay, who
had been running a small battery on the pro-
perty, for £75,000. Principal holders in
Gold Mines of Australia (nominal capital
£500,000) are New Consolidated Goldfields,
National Smelting Co., of London, North
Broken Hill, Electrolytic Zinc and Zinc Cor-
poration. The co. proposes to undertake
operations at Mt. Coolon on a large scale;
it also has an option over the Mother Lode
property on the old Ravenswood field.
* # * *
Day Dawn (Edie Creek) got 4140 z. gold
from a first crushing of 216 tons. It is not
up to the estimate of that careful judge,
the late Tom Horton; he reckoned the for-
mation worth about 4oz. as against the near-
est other guess of lOoz. Still, a 2oz. average
ought to keep the machinery going a long
while, though aeroplane charges are far
from cheap and heavy preliminary expendi-
ture has to be won back. If good wishes can
help the plucky shareholders to success they
are well backed, while a really rich run,
which is quite possible in such a formation,
will smooth the marks of anxiety from many
a furrowed brow.
* * * *
Bulolo Gold Dredging has more than half
the pontoon for No. 1 dredge erected, and the
constniction programme generally is well
forward. Though the weather interfered
with air transport, 705 short tons of machin-
ery had been landed on the field to September
12. Better flying conditions now prevail, and
the rest of the material for No. 1 is at Lae on
the coast. Drilling on the Bulowat area is
proceeding and boring has begun on Arnold’s
leases; results have not yet been announced.
* * *
Maoriland has backed Miller and Reid to
prove the existence of many millions of
pounds’ worth of gold that was promised to
the shareholders of Mount Lawson, N.L., of
Sydney. This time the locality is claimed
to be further afield, where the hills are
greener and the value per cubic yard less
definite.
* * * *
Carpathia, last survivor of the brood
hatched out of the Ardlethan boom —and that
was before the war —still has a feather left.
For the six months to the end of July it made
a net profit of £l9, for which a tribute was
responsible. At July 31 the co. owed £467,
and had £1741 in hand, besides nearly £lOOO
worth of stores and firewood.
* * -f
Glen Elgin Gold, recently put off the
stocks in Melbourne to dredge 200 acres at
Glen Elgin, near Glen Innes (N.S.W.),
claims that the ground is worth 2s. 6d. a
yard. Considering that the Great Britain
Co. has raked Glen Elgin from end to end
in search of dredging ground, the sophisti-
cated investor will want to know precisely
how the present estimate was arrived at.
* * * *
Freney Kimberley Oil Co.’s boring con-
tractor has squeezed a bit extra out of the
co. The rate fixed for the first site was 12s.
6d. per foot; this has been raised to 17s. 6d.
with a bonus thrown in for speedy, work.
The harder nature of the ground is said to
justify the higher rate. There will be no
600 ft. of soft boring at the start, as was
the case with the old site. There is cash
enough in hand to see the job through to
4000 ft., but hopes are that good news will
come from between 2500 ft. and 3000 ft.
* * *
“Peter”: At Southern Cross (W.A.) fair
prospects continue to be obtained near
Frasers, and if prospectors continue in pre-
sent humor the whole town will be pegged.
After 20 years’ mining in the district, I
consider the town offers a good chance to
prospectors. In the early days of the Cross
little importance was attached to geology,
consequently the town was built on the
granite-greenstone contact, right over the
north strike of a number of promising quartz
reefs.
* * * *
Stop-work meetings by the firewood
timber-workers on the Kurrawang wood
line continue to hamper ore treatment on
the Boulder mile. It was thought that the
arrival of a few trainloads of Collie coal
would end troubles, and so they did for a
while, but most of the men are out again.
If the price of coal delivered at Kalgoorlie
could be reduced a bit, Boulder mine man-
agers would alter their fireboxes in the hope
of ending the Kurrawang menace.
* * # * *
Rawang Concessions, floated in January,
1927, netted £16,334 for the 12 months to
May 31. That was after allowing for de-
preciation and the cost of two months’ stop-
page under the restriction scheme. Two 6d.
divs. took £lO,OOO, and £24,546 was carried
forward. Kampong Lanjut closed its books
on June 30 showing a profit of £14,515; the
allowance for the stoppage and depreciation
was £6672. No divs. were paid. Yardage
costs were: Rawang, 2 15/16d.; K. Lanjut,
2&d. On the market Rawang’s pound shares
fetch around 215.; Lanjut’s are offered at the
same figure.
In September, Alluvial’s seven working
mines produced 243 tons of tin ore, worth
£17,754, of which working costs took £11,059,
leaving a profit of £6695. Kramat, which
has been hung up, will open out again on
October 15. Changkat shuts down on the
same day, when it will have completed its
quota for the three months ending November
30. All the mines showed a profit on work-
ing save Malim Nawar, which announces a
loss of £l6lO.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.')
Why is N. Z. Perpetual Forests offering a
cash bonus of £8 plus a new bond fully-
paid in exchange for each of its first-issue
bonds? —6l9o.
The co. says it decided to make special
concessions to those who supported the ven-
ture in the initial stages. But it undertook
to cash its first-issue bonds at face value
plus 5 p.c. compound interest on demand. A
heavy call in this respect might prove incon-
venient to the co. at the moment. The
bonus offered about equals the interest to
date, and the new bonds carry no right to
demand cash. Thus, for every £1 the co.
may pay in bonuses, it eliminates the risk
of having to pay £3 more.
When will shareholders in the A.B.C.
receive their first div. from the Bank of N. S.
Wales?— 6lB9.
Uncertain at the moment. Shareholders of
both institutions have agreed to the merger;
but the date from which the Wales shall
take over the A.B.C. will not be fixed de-
finitely until legal formalities, now in the
course of completion, are out of the way.
We have promised to lift a mortgage on
a friend's farm. He cannot get any bank to
take it over. Can we add any clause to the
agreement which would protect us against
the money lent being paid back in inflated
currency ? —6090.
The difficulty is that the “inflated cur-
rency” would still be legal tender. Many
years ago, when, owing to the Californian
and Australian goldfields, there were doubts
about the yellow metal, certain London mort-
gages contained the provision that payment
might be demanded in gold, silver or ster-
ling. Various attempts have been made
lately on similar lines to protect the mort-
gagee, who has reserved the right to require
payment in Australian currency, sterling or
U.S.A. dollars. No case, so far as can be
traced, has ever come into the courts to
settle the legality of such a provision.
Can you see any objection to the appoint-
ment of the same auditor for many years? —
5972.
There are objections—held by some to be
so strong that in certain cos. the same man
is not eligible for more than two years run-
ning. The N. S. Wales, Australia’s greatest
bank, has such a rule; and experience has
produced only one modification of it for over
50 years—an auditor having served two years,
must now stand down for one year, not two
as originally laid down. A man going over
the same ground year after year is liable to
pass by, unnoticed, things which would catch
the eye of a new man. With at least two
auditors, one in and one out —or, better,
three, two in and one out —the auditors check
one another. This is much more important
in these days of heavy taxation and com-
plicated taxing laws. The advice of two
specialists on such subjects is better than
the advice of one.
(1) Cost of miner's right in Papua? (2)
What conditions are imposed upon a person
wishing to enter Papua to prospect for gold?
(3) Where can a map of Papua be obtained?
(4) Must one have a passport to leave
Queensland ? —5877.
(1) 10s. per annum. (2) A person must
upon arrival in Papua produce evidence
there that he has sufficient capital, or has
made satisfactory arrangements, for his main-
tenance whilst in the Territory. A person
who desires to engage in mining must deposit
£5O with the Government on arrival, and
in addition he should be able to produce
evidence that he has at his disposal cash or
credit to the extent of at least £2OO. (3)
Combined map of the Territories of Papua
and New Guinea may be obtained from Prime
Minister’s Department, Canberra, on pay-
ment of 2s. 9d., which includes postage. (4)
Permit to leave Australia may be obtained
from the Collector of Customs, Brisbane.
„ .. ~ r
Re reports of payable ml discovery tn M.L
(1) Name of co. and address? (2) Location?
(3) Estimated flow? (4) Allotted shares?
(5) Selling pi-ice? (6) Depth of bore? —
5518.
(1) Moturoa Oil Fields, Limited. New
Plymouth. (2) New Plymouth. (3) During
the month of August the well was opened
up and flowed for 16 days. The production
Si r io^^ nSt f7x a 9nT?98 a T eIS (3 ?’§° o Im iP e ?r a }
gallons). (4) 204.728 shares of ss. each. (5)
Buyers 4s. od., sellers ss. 3d. (6) 2088 feet.
RRTVF AVtJWPRQ
'
Ida: Not land unless you can make use of
it. Land is a very hungry beast these days. What
of a bank deposit? W.H.W.: Well, there is the
Commonwealth Savings Bank. If that goes, there
won’t be much left of Australia... .J. 8.: Sorry,
none... .G.S.: At last balance liabilities under
policies, £64,334 ; tangible assets (premises, Govt.
securities and mortgages, etc.), £96,037, with con-
siderable share capital callable ...P.W.H.: A country
is on the gold standard so long as it undertakes
to sell gold for legal tender at pai- C.M.: New
Guinea Goldfields, 67 York-street; Placer Develop-
ment; and Bulolo Gold Dredging both ir| ge o
House, Angel-place—all Sydney; Day Dawn
Guinea), Ltd., Edie Greek, New Guinea.... • -ft-
Hydro-Carbon Products Pty., Ltd., nominal -capua
£5OOO, was registered in Melbourne on Augus ,
its business being stated as “oil-refiners, meicnants,
etc.” The co.’s office is 37 Swanston-stree , *
berume J.S.M.: Best thing- to ask for is a p -
np endowment policy. Present value depends on
about £6O.


Mining Machinery of Modern Design and Construction
M
r
r
1 ■
iissiiiit
H
mm 1
Bft. X 48in. “RUWOLT” CONICAL BALL MILL. Weight: 35 tons.
This Mill was recently designed and manufactured by us to the order of THE NORTH BROKEN HILL, LIMITED,
and is now running in their New Milling Plant at Broken Hill.
PATENTED
EQUIPMENT
We are the Sole Licensees
in Australia for the Manu-
facture of
“WILFLEY”
SAND AND GRAVEL
PUMPS
“FAHRENWALD”
FLOTATION UNITS
Either of these Units are
indispensable for Modern
Mining Plants.
“RUWOLT”
PORTABLE
MILLING PLANTS
to handle crude ore for
Small Mines,
Pilot Plants
and Prospectors.
Made in three sizes.
Capacity: Half Ton to
Three Tons per hour
respectively.
The Mill, illustrated, is a good example of the class of high-grade work that we are continually
producing. Our experience in, and resources for, the design and manufacture of any type of
machinery required for the Crushing, Milling, Dressing and Treatment of Ore, are unique, and
we will be glad to submit designs and quotations for suitable Plant on receipt of enquiries.
CHARLES RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
power
' ' -V.
I&AAAAM
AAl££
GRAHAM-PAIGE offers a
variety of body types, including
Roadsters, Tourers, Cabriolets,
Coupes and Sedans, on five
chassis, in sixes and eights—
at a wide range of prices.
SWEET-SWIFT SILENT
There is a sense of safety and security in the instantaneous
response to the tremendous power of the Graham-Paige engine
that is further manifested in a nimbleness of performance almost
beyond belief.
And until the day arrives—if it ever does—when an entirely new
principle of power transmission has been developed, nothing
could be sweeter, swifter or more silent than the power of these
new Graham-Paige Eights and Sixes.
Enjoy a Graham-Paige demonstration and you will recognise
immediately the masterly combination of automobile virtues
that makes Graham-Paige a very good car.
WT|
Graham-Paige Distributors, Australia and
New Zealand:
N. S. Wales W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
Victoria WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
S. Australia . . .MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
W. Australia . . .ARTHUR BALES LIMITED
Queensland . . . MQXON MOTORS LIMITED
Tasmania TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
New Zealand . . WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
AAAMAM-PAl££


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOT? COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Criterion “Hay Fever”
Palace “The High Cost of Loving”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Florodora”
State Movies and Talkies
*
A School for Actors
Actors are in two classes —those that need
schooling and those that need chloroform-
ing. An easy way of dismissing them. Take
the three gentlemen, of the first-mentioned
class to the academy in Bridge-street, Sydney,
called the Royal Exchange, and surprise the
rest in other people’s cars, beds and debt, and
simply give it to them. All very well. The
trouble is that you can’t chloroform an
actor. Doctors don’t go out of a show curs-
ing with impotence because they like doing
it. They hate it. But they know that Ass-
face is impregnable. Since bad actors first
reached perfection every known form of
anaesthetic has been tried on them, from the
Norman Lindsay cult to the Max Meldrum
virus. They thrive on it all, and do worse
than ever.
A people apart, they walk past the aca-
demy in Bridge-street oblivious of everything
"Put powdered finger to empty forehead."
but the cut of their clothes or salaries. And
go on that night and make the same false
gestures, pat their poor bellies, put powdered
finger to empty forehead, shrug shoulders,
sigh, roll their eyes, fill their mouths with
plums, get all set for dramatic declamation
and forget their lines, fidget from chair to
sofa ten times in a two-minutes’ conversa-
tion, and come out when it is all over and
smirk another good five minutes, the
rag goes up and down and the dress-circle
claps without enthusiasm.
Alas, poor Assface, we know him well!
We know him well, poor Assface, alas! He
is Roarer no longer. The fashion of the
Whispering Baritone has taken on. He
has become effete. There is a gentle-
ness about our modern actor that is pitiful
to look on. He comes on stage tentatively,
mincing. He is so sweet and pretty. One
would like to take him snapper-fishing out
from the Macleay River on Jamieson’s boat,
only Sam would probably cut him up for
bait. But he would be a pretty figure while
he lasted. Perhaps this is inhuman thought.
After all, he is not a bad poor fellow. A
little dull if you meet him off stage, addicted
perhaps to lemonade, bibbing in soft-drink
dives, but altogether a friendly soul. All he
needs is half an hour in this academy in
Bridge-street and you wouldn’t know him
from a man.
It ought to be stated that this school for
actors is not known as such. It calls itself
a Wool Sale at the Royal Exchange. Art
never was obvious. But that it isn’t what
it calls itself is patent from the simple fact
that there is no wool. When the present
writer attended an afternoon session last
week there was not so much as a thread of
it. There is a story that all the Art
Demonstrators are woolbuyers who go out
to' Pyrmont before sun-up every morning
and decide there which of the wool they will
bid for later in the day, and that these
gentlemen merely represent overseas and
local firms of the names that are tacked
"Go out to Pyrmont before sun-up every
morning.”
to the seats in front of each of them, and
that the professor up on the stand in front
of them is not a professor at all but merely
an auctioneer, and that the script everyone
holds is only a catalogue. It is all right as
yarns go. No doubt it serves its purpose
in keeping social climbers and such-like out
of this sanctum of Art, and for the same
purpose the stage might do worse than copy
it and call itself a fish market or a lead
bazaar*. But it’s a thin yarn, which falls
to pieces the moment the professor takes his
stand.
Then the so-called woolbuyers, the Art
Demonstrators, sit up around their semi-
circular tiers, sloping back to near the ceil-
ing, like the dress-circle at the Criterion, bar-
ring the posts. The so-called auctioneer, the
Professor, mentions no wool. He looks at
his script and calls a number. The demon-
stration starts. It is nothing so rudimentary
as “Oh, Clarissa, how I have missed you!”
It is five of the demonstrators jumping to
their feet and in less than half a minute
giving a complete representation of a com-
bined dog, poultry and donkey show. It is
a staggering demonstration of Art. It is not
merely a matter of voice production, though
that is exquisite in its shades and nuances,
ranging from poodle to pointer, small-boy dog,
lady’s dog, tripehound, Orpington at sunrise,
Malay game, Rhode Island Red, Muscovy,
with a marvellously sustained undercurrent
of donkey in distance. It is such an on-
slaught that even men who go regularly to
the academy are overcome with emotion, and
rush out from time to time, returning later
chewing cloves. You might listen for a quar-
ter of an hour to wave after wave of it,
anything from five to twenty demonstrators
going together, before you distinguished, say,
the fine tenor canary in the fifth row, and
it would be some time after that before you
could concentrate on that phase of the his-
trionic art, in which the academicians
excel —that is, gesture. There is none of
your half-hearted pawing of the air about
this. Kanematsu has a left point to the
heart that would move a dramatic critic to
tears. I Ida (by such names are they labelled)
has a way of holding his face in both hands
that wrings the very soul of you. Dawson
goes in for the stirring uppercut, Simonius
has a fetching straight right, Haughton a
tender round-arm swing, Dewez a gentle left
hook. Holt a diverting overarm rabbit-killer,
Booth a dramatic left biff, Biggin a poig-
nant smother. And three dozen others have
their _ own perfected gestures. Facial ex-
pression is the one branch of the dramatic
art' in which the academicians seem limited.
They register only one expression, amaze-
ment —at either that their artistic efforts
have caught the eye of the professor or that
they haven’t.
True, some have gone to see this show and
said it was like a bear garden. They have
said that the roar and bellow and shout and
yell and squeal of the place, English, French,
Australian, Japanese, German, Italian, would
deafen you, and that the arm-waving and air-
punching was ridiculous to look at. They
have said that the most notable thing about a
wool sale was that it did not increase one’s
respect for human beings. They have accused
these gentlemen of sitting down and mumb-
ling curses to themselves. They have likened
them to a pack of starving wolves at feeding
time. They have called them a collection of
windbags. Cruelly they have compared them
to the talkies.
But the academy goes on. Our actors con-
tinue to pass it.
And, therefore,
continue to won-
der why a critic
will sometimes
be tempted to
mention, gently,
that their work
is punk, or even
be tempted to
suggest that, if
they can’t emu-
late these bril-
liant performers
in any other re-
spect, - they
might at least
adopt the idea
of having what
they represent
fastened to them
on a printed
strip of card.
There would he
something i u
knowing
whether an
“Not a professor at all,
but merely an auctioneer.”
actor was representing Hamlet or a chemist’s
shop.
Zlatko Balokovic, after a cruise round
Maoriland, returned to Sydney Town Hall
on Saturday night, bringing with him a
conductor, Prof. Bernard Heinze, who hails
from Melbourne; an orchestra, mobilised in
Sydney; a pianist, Kjell Fleetwood, who
sounds Scandinavian; also several fiddles
made in Italy and one made in Australia.
Balokovic, who is a Croat, and had his musi-
cal training at Zagreb, which is cheek-by-
jowl with Slavonia, Slovenia and Hungary,
chose as his principal offering the Tschaikow-
sky Violin Concerto. It is a theory firmly
held by many fiddlers that the eminent Rus-
sian composer was actuated in scoring this
work by a bitter hatred of violinists. It
abounds in knotty technical problems and its
conception takes a lot of understanding. For
years after its birth this concerto lay under
a dark cloud. Balokovic plays it like a fond
mother dandling an unruly infant, proud
alike of its temper and its moments of seren-
ity. The orchestral background was wonder-
fully good, considering the circumstances of
its organisation. For one of bis three con-
cluding encore items the violinist used his
Australian fiddle. Though it had to stand
comparison with the tone of the world-famous
“Ernst” Strad., it sang a dance rhythm so
beautifully under Balokovic’s sensitive fingers
that few would have noticed the difference
had they not been told.
Mr. Fleetwood, Balokovic’s accompanist,
had a full share of the laurels on this occa-
sion, showing his virtuosity in the Grieg
Pianoforte Concerto. Accompaniment is not
a good preparation for leadership, and the
concerto calls for a degree of leonine egoism
lacking in Mr. Fleetwood’s interpretation.
It was, however, a pretty picture of Norway.
The orchestra again did wonders and ?ot a
separate round of applause from the audience,
which enjoyed the more than usually cos-
mopolitan concert.
9$ Qfr 9&
The Gilsullivans are having a wild week
at Sydney Majesty’s. They are turning on
two shows a day—“ Pirates” for to-day
(Wednesday), “Yeomen” to-morrow and
“Mikado” for the rest
# * *
The automatic tote had a dress-rehearsal
at Flemington last week in preparation for
the Melbourne Cup. Author-producer George
Julius took a party behind the scenes. He
has already staged the show in various parts
of the world, including Longchamps, Cal-
cutta, Bombay and Singapore, and has re-
cently shipped a complete replica of the
Flemington outfit, with adaptations to local
requirements, to Miami, Florida. When the
Customs official in Sydney learnt that
machinery was going out of Australia to
America, instead of the other way about, he
nearly fell dead. Mr. Julius’s attitude to-
wards the tote is strictly objective, as
a scientist’s should be. He knows next to
“What they represent fastened to them on
a printed card.”
nothing about betting on horses, and has
no more concern with the moral consequences
of his invention than a chemist who dis-
covers a new variety of poison gas. It may
be that it is the beginning of a movement
which will end with mechanical horses, clock-
work jockeys and punters that are wound
up and despatched for a day on the turf
while their owners remain comfortably at
home. This was possibly the thought that
moved one bookmaker who inspected the
show to classify it as a farce; while another
was equally insistent that it was a tragedy.
One punter unhesitatingly described it as
a roaring success. He claimed to have
obtained odds of 101 to 1 from it, as against
S 3 to 1 from the books. Behind the hand-
some front of the machine, _ with its bar-
ometers containing blue silk instead of mer-
cury, are long rows of machines of uncanny
intelligence, which take the punters’ money,
add it up, pass the total on to other long
rows of machines, which subtract the wicked
exactions of the Government, and then hand
on the depleted total to fresh regiments of
mechanical mathematicians which divide the
sum and calculate the dividend. Every
machine hearkens to the voice of every other
machine and modifies its statements accord-
ingly. Moreover, bets are pouring in at
other points about the course, and to all
these each machine is as responsive as if it
had a hundred ears and eyes, instructing the
brain of a bookmaker with a supernatural
facility for calculating the odds. When a
machine makes a slip it automatically stops,
does a think, so to speak, and corrects itself;
and all the other machines immediately do
the same.
* %■ #
Mo continues to massacre the King’s Eng-
lish at Melbourne Tivoli. The sprightly
Sadie Gale is the latest addition to the pro-
gramme, which is as Mo-ish as last week’s.
* * *
Dorothy Brunton will cease making her
appearance in a barrel at Melbourne Royal
on Friday. On Saturday “Florodora” will
be revived. Frank Harvey’s fine “Cape For-
lorn” will be taken off the boards at the
Comedy to-night (Wednesday). This is the
end of the briefest and most brilliant season
that playhouse has yet enjoyed.
¥ * #
Balokovic, who was to have unsheathed his
fiddle at the Town Hall, Melbourne, on Satur-
day, is now postponed until the 17th. In
his place the Vic. Professional Orchestra, re-
organised and augmented to 70 head of
musicians, -will occupy the stage. Slapoffski
will conduct and Kathleen Carroll, a new
soprano, will sing.
lan Devereux is a majastie hero in Somer-
ville’s “Maid of the Mountains” at Adelaide
Royal; but, as the score incredibly makes
the hero go songless, David Grahame gets
all the musical chances. Lilian Crisp, in
Gladys Moncrieff’s famous part, does her best
work since “The Desert Song,” Vera Spaull
and Don Nicol working hard and effectually
with the comic relief.
* # #
Peter Dawson steadily gained enthusiasm
in his Adelaide season, while Hambourg was
eventually set down by the musicians as a
curate’s egg of an executant who takes liber-
ties with composers.
The Palette,
Artistically speaking most of the members
of the Melbourne Society of Women Painters
(Athenaeum) wear specs. They don’t look
at Nature with the naked eye. but through
some convention or other. This year some
of the ladies have been donning the pince-nez
of the French modernists, which have the
effect of cutting out tone and converting
subtle hues into the primary colors. Louise
Fairley and Mrs. Tweddle throw paint
around with a grand disregard for the conse-
quences. There may be a hidden mystery in
it, but it looks as easy as cooking a meal of
hard-boiled eggs and burnt toast. There is
more refinement in Mrs. A. M. E. Bale’s
“Sketch.” Jessie Macintosh is unknown to
present critic, but her “Early Morning”
seems to be full of the softness of pre-break-
fast sunlight. “Spring Morning, Studley
Park,” reveals that Aileen Dent is getting on
in landscape, though her portraiture is still
marking time. In “An Old-fashioned Melody”
E. Lakeland has painted a lady, who, by
her expression, has just taken a dose of
medicine. In No. 34 A. M. Plante has left
a fellow-artist for dead, but there is vigor
about “Nell,” even if her youthful face
appears to be heavily rouged.
Vie Artists’ spring exhibition attains a
higher average than usual, but contains noth-
ing that makes one want to throw one’s hat
in the air, as does the spring exhibition going
on out of doors. Hans Heysen’s “Arkaba
is the Far North in terms of Maxfield Par-
rish. Marion Montford’s “The Trapper’ is
only paint. A. J. Salmon’s “The Hazy
Dandenongs” is a good shot. Nothing
of importance comes from the Mclnnes
studio. Owing to the price of canvas there
are no large pictures, for which the depres-
sion may be blamed or praised.
The awards at S.A. Society of Arts spring
show go to the versatile George Whinnen
for a bold blue Victor Harbor seascape, and
a newcomer, Travis Webber, for a landscape
—a glimpse of Adelaide from a quarry in the
hills. The Melrose prize, which has lately
done so much in Adelaide to buck up the
art of portraiture, is again given for a
modelled head, this time by Frank Collie.
The conditions seem to need revision; it
must be curiously difficult to gauge the merits
of a painting as against a bust.
Adelaide Society of Arts’ 75th birthday
show was unusually strong. Hans Heysen
exhibited, the first time for some 15 years;
Eldershaw, Wheeler, Dora Wilson and the
Rowells sent across some fine work.
Heysen’s grim Centralian landscapes domi-
nated what is almost a rush of painters to
the same district, but in flower studies he
is seriously challenged by his owe daughter
Nora. Waden, Giles and the veteran. James
Ashton scored in land- and sea-scape; Leslie
Wilkie, Whinnen and Paula Brain in figures ;
Goodhart and Dora Whitford in black-apd-
white. There was a little good modelling.
Ambition alone didn’t make a Turner, and
Irene Carter, a Perth girl, who has been
painting in Venice and other places, has a
long way to go before she will make any-
thing but a muddle of such vast projects as
she has tackled in her show at the Queen’s
Hall, Melbourne.
The art of Carlyle Jackson at the New-
man Galleries, Melbourne, shows improve-
ment. He is treading in the footsteps of
water-colorist Harold Herbert, and in some
of his pictures displays a greater sense of
unity, though he lacks the other man’s tech-
nical facility.
“M.G.S.”: The Sedon Galleries, Mel-
bourne, have been showing a collection of
“Masters of the ’Nineties,” meaning Austra-
lian Masters. What sticks out of the show is
the fact that these men, McCubbin, Tom
Roberts, Chas. Conder, Louis Buvelot and
Walter Withers, knew a great deal more
about light and shade than many of the
fashionable New Masters. This casts a dis-
concerting ray on the announcements made
from time to time that some eminent Aus-
tralian citizen has the finest collection of
Orpens (or Augustus Johns or Lamberts)
in the Southern Hemisphere. He probably
imagines that be has made a good buy, and
in one sense he has. He has paid 000 or
1000 guineas for his treasure, and he gets
the prestige of being a connoisseur and in
the swim, as it were. But he almost cer-
tainly thinks he has also made a good invest-
ment, and there’s the catch in it. If any
prospective buyer of pictures wants to know 7
where the catch lies, let him try this simple
experiment. Let him put up on his wall a
good reproduction of a popular Orpen, bur
own Lambert’s portrait of Mrs. Ernest
Watt, or a John, alongside, say, Raeburn’s
“Mrs. Scott Moncrieff,” Rembrandt’s “Hen-
drikje Stoffels” or a Landseer, and let him
look at them for a month. At the end of
that time, I should be very much surprised
if he doesn’t see in the Landseer, Lambert,
Orpen and John things that he won’t see
in the Raeburn and Rembrandt. They are
what our art critics agree with the film-puff
men in calling “personality.” Landseer was
the Orpen or Lambert of his day. Sixty
years ago his “Hunting Stag,” measuring
72in. by 101 in., changed hands for £5OOO.
The other day it was put up for auction in
London. Not a bid was received for it.
A collection of windbags ”
“F.S.”: Henri Matisse, who fell dead in
Paris the other day has a steadily growing
following in Australia, as the increasing
number of groggy still-lifes in exhibitions indi-
cates. He succeeded Cezanne, a sincere artist
genuinely looking for truth, which eluded
him because of the clumsiness of his pursuit
and his lack of intelligence. It is impossible
to find in Cezanne’s letters the least under-
standing of what he was at. It was a case
of hit or miss. His misses, since they at
least had the merit of being different from
the academic art of his day, were hailed as
masterpieces. I have never been able to get
any Australian Cezannist to give a logical
explanation why. Cezanne painted his pots
flat, but Matisse made the discovery that ir
he painted them both flat and falling over
the critics found a new significance, in his
work. Cezanne and Matisse, left art in such
an acute state of mental incoherence that
one may find 100 artists on the banks of
the Seine to-day all painting the same subject,
and it will be impossible to know what the
subject is. And a child in an Australian
State school will have as much optical know-
ledge as the whole bunch of them.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
SMUGGLING IT THROUGH.
“The Premier (Mr. Lang) gave notice of no less than 12 bills which he proposed to pass through all stages at one sitting. Mr. Bavin said he could not help thinking the
object of bringing in this flock of bills was to cloak one of them, to legalise tin-hare racing and gambling thereon.” “The bill relating to tin hares managed to get through
all stages up to the third reading in the Legislative Council, when it was blocked.”
TRAFFIC COP BAVIN: “Hey, jack, what you doin’ with the bunny in there?”
Birth-control and Charity
Dear Bulletin, —This is from a recent
newspaper:—
Clothes required for three small children. Father
out of work for two years, rent in arrear for over
half a year, mother due to enter a maternity hospital
any day.
Irt savage society an individual unable or
unwilling to work is left to starve. Living
in civilised society and being more indulgent,
vve pity him, taking it for granted that it is
not the individual’s fault he is out of work,
and keep him. If he has §ot a wife, we
keep her, too; if he’s got children, we keep
them as well. But this is not all. We even
encourage him to have some more; don’t we
pay him a baby bonus, and is not an addi-
tional child worth to him ss. per week for
the next 14 years, if his luck holds? I
know of at least two cases in which the
additional child was conceived because it
meant the baby bonus, a larger dole and a
steady if small income. Should it not be
the duty of the State to intervene and say:
“We are willing to keep you and your wife
and the children you have got, until the
day when we hope you will obtain suitable
employment, but you will abstain from put-
ting additional charges on us. And if you do
not know how to avoid it, we shall give you
free medical instruction and include preven-
tives in the list of dole necessities”?—Yours
Appio.
Canberra
Dear Bulletin, —Nobody ever suggested
great commercial possibilities for Canberra;
its geographical position precludes this. It
was not intended to be a Sheffield or even
a Newcastle. But it does grow the world’s
best fine wool, in common with Yass, Quean-
beyan and surroundings. There is no better
land in the Commonwealth than the Mill
Flats, opposite Duntroon College, and
Majura Valley adjoining, for farming or
grazing. You say (16/9/’3l) : “Canberra
has been a rotten disappointment.” Yes,
up to the point that it has never been
permitted to function in the manner intended
by its founders. Until the States are super-
seded and a truly National Parliament de-'
liberates at Canberra, instead of the present
half-baked compromise super-imposed on the
old system, the true significance and value
of the capital will never be realised. That
politicians get out of it is no reflection on
the beauties or amenities of the place, having
regard to the cranial capacity of the majo-
rity of them. The cost of ’Berra is a mere
fleabite compared with the millions they have
squandered on bone-headed experiments.
Make no mistake about it, Canberra will
pay in the not too distant future. To-day
it is a place of beauty, and, as Australians
come to know it as it is, iij will be an in-
spiration and a source of pride to all nation-
ally-minded citizens. —Yours, John Esmond.
The Passing of Dividends
Dear B.,—The almost universal practice
of passing dividends is one of the great
factors of the existing depression. Hundreds
of thousands of pounds are being transferred
to reserves, etc. Nothing could be worse.
The money is withheld from the woefully
thin purses of the public, who now spend
only for absolute necessities and too often
have to pinch themselves to do that. If
this policy is long continued all the ready
money will have vanished —it will be locked
up and as useless as the gold hoarded up in
the United States. Then the companies will
have to cease business, as there will be
no money to buy their products. Some of
the profits to-day are large. Take the B. H.
Prop. Co. Its last working account showed a
balance of over £316,000. About £75,000 of
this would have paid a 6d. dividend.
Already the amount put aside for deprecia-
tion must almost, if not entirely, represent
the cost of the plant, and the reserves appa-
rent on the balance-sheet are £3,627,667. It
is quite right that companies should safe-
guard themselves, but there is a wide differ-
ence between safeguarding and miserliness. —
Tours, Evelyn Manning.
A Self-adjusting Tariff
Dear Bulletin, —All over Australia the
murmur of the primary producer may be
heard, because in secondary industries wages
range from £3 10s. to £lO per week, while
in nearly all the primary industries there
are no wages at all for those running them.
Unless employers and employees in the
secondary industries get together quickly and
find some way of reducing the prices of the
commodities they manufacture, they are
liable to suddenly find their castles falling
about their ears. Here are two suggestions:
(1) Give all secondary industries notice that
unless their prices are reduced to British
parity plus freight and exchange— i.e.,
normal landed cost —within, say, three
months, the duty on goods from the U.K. will
be removed. (2) Put the tariff on a scienti-
fic basis —British general tariff 10 per cent,
minimum, for others 15 per cent. All foreign
countries which buy from us as much as,
or more than, we buy from them to be on
the 15 per cent, mark; those who buy £1
worth from us for every £4 worth they sell
us to be on a 60 per cent. mark. A self-
adjusting tariff, in other words, each year’s
rate based on previous year’s figures.—
Yours etc., P. P.
The Cotton-grower and the Bounty
Dear Bulletin, —The cotton cockies in
Queensland are safe for another four years,
provided the Commonwealth Treasury does
not go broke and the bounty allowed to
growers covers their picking expenses. At
present award rates the cocky pays his
pickers 1-Jd. per pound, and the bounty just
about meets this. There are cotton cockies,
however, who send their children out in the
fields when the youngsters should be at
school. The work may not be hard, but the
hours are long, and, as the season lasts from
three to four months, hundreds of kids are
losing that time at school and arc to face
the world woefully ignorant. The bounty was
intended to enable the cotton cocky to pay
a living wage for his picking, and thus absorb
unemployed; but during the season just past
it was common to see hundreds walking
the farms looking for work, whilst in the
fields tiny tots snapped at the bolls. The
Act needs amending to give the unfortunate
kids a chance. —Yours, Walkabout.
A Five-year Plan for* Australia
Dear Bulletin, —There are a lot of points
about the Soviet five-year plan that couldn’t
be transplanted to Australia even if we
wanted to transplant ’em, but the idea of
a national industrial plan is good and applic-
able to this country, which has hitherto had
no plan beyond “development of the great
natural resources” on borrowed money. The
first essential of an Australian plan should
be to get our debts paid. That means in-
creased production for export and greatly
decreased imports. We have an army of
unemployed. Let’s put them to work on
huge State farms and grazing runs. There’s
plenty of Crown land, and stock and farm
equipment could be taken in lieu of taxes.
Close the agricultural colleges and put the
directors and other experts in charge of the
big State farms, reinforced by the best prac-
tical farmers we can get, and don’t let the
politicians interfere with them. Increase
annually the area farmed and the production
aimed at. That’s as much as Australia can
do by Government effort on the exporting
side. In addition discover what manufac-
tured essentials to a decently comfortable
existence the country is importing. Organ-
ise local manufacture, and as soon as it is
organised, absolutely prohibit importation.
Whenever the factory production exceeds the
local demand, switch the industrial army on
to preparations for defence. Aim at reduc-
ing the dead-weight burden of overseas debt
by an increasing amount each year. The
first goal should be to get the country out
of the pawnshop and give everybody some
useful work to do. Anything that interferes
with that aim should be scrapped. Once we
are independent we can experiment in Uto-
pias to our heart’s content. As it will be
at our own expense, Utopias that don’t
Utope will get short shrift. —Yours etc.,
Avon.
The Export of Stud Sheep
Dear Bulletin.— “ Valeria” (B. 9/9/’3l)
cannot decide which is the greater menace,
an Australian Bolshevik or the studbreeder
anxious to sell his sheep to the world. (1)
Does he consider England would have been
advantaged if she had refused to sell her
stock in like fashion? (2) If “perseverance
and brains” peculiar to Australians have
evolved our highest class merinos, why are
these only produced in remarkably restricted
areas? (31 Does he consider that high
prices resulting from wool being in short
supply would help our interests against com-
peting fibres?—Yours, Ui-lOK Bkowne.
Are Politicians Masters or Servants?
Dear Bulletin, —Premier Lang, asked in
N.S.W. Assembly if his Government in-
tended to devote any of the lottery profits to
the upkeep of the hospitals, characteristi-
cally dodged the question with the vague
assertion that he had always done all he
could for the hospitals, and would continue
to do so. Cannot something be done to
wipe out the Parliamentary convention that
even the most legitimate and important ques-
tions may be evaded by verbal juggling of
this hind? The public, which hires politi-
cians to make some sort of a fist of carry :
ing on the country’s business, has as much
right to know what is going on behind the
scenes as any other employer. It is beyond
endurance that information to which it is
entitled should be withheld or obscured by
some insolent hireling intent only on cover-
ing up his own or his party’s crimes or
shortcomings. It is up to electors to insist
at the next elections that candidates give a
definite pledge to support a measure designed
to reform Parliamentary procedure, which
stands in urgent need of a spring cleaning.
The system which has grown up to-day per-
mits the party in power to bulldoze the
public, to shelter crooks and their works,
and in a dozen ways generally to discredit
the Parliamentary institution, which has
never been held in more general contempt
throughout the world than it is in this year
of grace.—Yours, Fed Up.
Farm Mortgages and Public Debts
Dear Bulletin^— As a returned soldier
and a humble cocky who threw in his modest
few pounds when Lyons and co. were implor-
ing us with sobs in their whiskers to save
Australia’s honor, this alleged Equality of
Sacrifice has me dazed. I have already con-
verted two-thirds of my holding in Common-
wealth bonds, and now the “honor” crowd
propose to bushrange the balance, which I
urgently require at maturity (1932) in
order to discharge my liability (farm mort-
gage) to the State (Q.) Agricultural Bank.
In view of the fact that the' State Premiers
are a party to this proposed repudiation, is
it not a fair thing to assume that by copy-
ing their example, I, in turn, am entitled
to default to the State Bank? The reduction
of interest is a matter of indifference. It
is the confiscation of my money for from two
to seven years that leaves me stone cold. —
Yours faithfully, El Miralai.
Young Statesmen League
Dear Bulletin, — Following upon “A Call
to Young Australia” (B. 9/9/’3l), it may
interest you to know of the operations of
this Brisbane league. We have been in
existence since May, 1931, and the success
we have achieved is very gratifying. The
members ai-e between the ages of 20 and
30 and are all really sincere in their efforts.
We decided right from the start that we
would be non-party, because we think par-
tisanship would spoil our plans for the
development of individuality. We were
approached by the Young Nationalists in
Brisbane, who wanted us to amalgamate.
But we could not see our way clear to sub-
scribe unreservedly to the Nationalist Party
programme. We feel the same about the
Labor Party. Perhaps “We Three” and
other correspondents would like to form a
centre of this league in Sydney. At least,
it seems to be needed there. If they get in
touch with me I shall see that they have
every assistance from P.i-isbane centre.—
Youi-s faithfully, R. A. Wisiiart, Governor
of the League (4 Bryce’s Chambers, Adel-
aide-street, Brisbane).


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,15 b
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman heeds to know,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. liyan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal ,Territory), Melbourne,, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers,' N. S., Wales,, also . representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and .the-World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
i, L‘ i I
immm
m
lit I'm
“I erf
• Bead Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
TO MEET THE TIMES
U
Melbourne Jr Premier Rate!
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
“K.K.K.”: At a bush picnic on the South
Coast of N. S. Wales I was persuaded
to act as judge of the foot-racing. For one
event about a dozen girls, 18 years or so.
lined up, barefooted and with handkerchiefs
tied round their hair. They all had a bit
of pace, but one shot out to the front, was
never headed and won comfortably by about
ten yards. “’Ere, Bill,” said a bewliiskered
cocky indignantly to the winner’s bloke, who
was proudly leading her away; “you’ve been
trainin’ .’er!” “Swelp me bob, I ain’t,” came
the earnest reply. “I ain’t never even give
’er a rub down!”
* * * *
“Verneuker”: There is probably no one
with a profounder conviction of the depra-
vity of human nature than the official of the
Queensland Pests Destruction Board whose
duty it is to check and pay for the scalps
and other evidences of destruction sub-
mitted. The day is gone when 20 or 30
dingo scalps could be manufactured from
one dog-skin, blit there is always someone
thinking up a new dodge to beat the pay-
master. Recently one of the checkers be-
came suspicious of the extraordinary num-
ber of crow heads being handed in by One
individual. One dried bird’s head is very
much like another, supposing size and color
to be similar, so tbe doubter submitted some
specimens to the Brisbane Museum. This
informed him that he had been paying Is.
for heads of the black scrub magpie, for
which Gd. is the price. As Maggie is much
more plentiful in some quarters than the
crow, and is very much easier to bag, the
ingenious one was on a good wicket.
* * * *
“Gelt”: Alvara de Saavedra, who was in
charge of the Spanish fleet that sailed from
Mexico in 1528 for Spain, by way of the
Pacific, and touched at New Guinea, which lie
called “Isla de Oro” (“The Golden Island”),
either had prophetic vision or else a first-rate
geologist amongst his crew of filibusters, for
exactly 400 years later (1928) the man-
dated portion of “The Golden Island” ex-
ported no less than £256,216 worth of the
yellow metal. To June 30, 1930, gold to
the value of £771.096 had been exported since
1924, all worked by primitive methods. What
De Saavedra’s Golden Island will disgorge
when up-to-date machinery is at work is
estimated by mining engineers, in millions.
Funny thing about old Saavedra’s title for
the country is that he landed only at points
on the north coast, where no gold has been
found.
STRAIGHT TIP.
One Punter: “I had it from the stable that the last race was
going to be a walk home.”
THE OTHER: ‘'And was it?”
FIRST: “Yes—for me.”
“Avon”: There was a mingling of Anglican
and Maori ritual at the funeral service of
Elsdon Best, the ethnologist, who studied
Maori lore so profoundly.
Bishop Bennett, who is a
Maori, delivered the eulogy
at Rt. Paul’s pro-catliedra).
‘ Wellington, his _ peroration
being in the native tongue,
and referring to Best as
“chief and father.” Then the
bishop advanced to the coffin
and placed upon it a wreath
of the leaves of the kawa-
kawa —in Maori terminology
a pare-kawa-kawa —an em-
blem used by the race only
when lamenting the death of
a very great man. It is
chosen, as the bishop ex-
plained, because the leaves,
when bruised, have a bitter,
pungent and painful taste. By
his own wish. Best’s mortal
remains were cremated.
S'. >5
“Homfrey Beale”: Has
anyone got a reasonable
theory to account for the fact
that if one of a clump of
yarran is cut down or other-
wise fatally injured, those in
the immediate vicinity also
die? The peculiarity explains
the large tracts of defunct
yarran that punctuate the
continent, such as those round
iCondobolin (N.S.W.) and
scores of others. Binghi
knew all about the matter.
He explained it by a belief
that spirits of the departed
inhabited these trees, and
when the home of one was
destroyed his immediate
cronies vacated theirs as a
protest, and haunted the camp of the cul-
prit’s tribe until the seedlings of the year
of destruction became attractive as habita-
tions. Myall, which is closely related to
yarran, shotvs no' such peculiarity.
“Hornby”: Accord-
ing to the Motuan
(New Guinea) be-
lief, one’s state m
the hereafter has no
relation to ones
morals in this exist-
ence, but depends
solely on whether
one has or has not
worn a pierced pro-
boscis. AH pierced
noses go to Kaka.
the place of plenty.
For unpierced bokos
no excuse is accept-
ed. They are heaved
incontinently into
Tageani, an unplea-
sant region where
kai is scarce and
betel-nut unknown.
Noses are not pierced
as a general rule be-
fore the age of six,
but in the event ot
sudden illness before
that age, if death
appears likely, all
hands and the cook
rush the sufferer with
skewers.
i\i sjt
“Yarraman”: The
wild horse in Aus-
tralia is not always
a degenerate brute
hardly worth shoot-
ing fo'r his hide. Of
late years they have
been increasing in
the wild country be-
tween Warwick and
Cunningham’s Gap,
on the Darling
Downs. Tom Yorston,
of Gladfield station,
which marches with
much of this coun-
try, is a breeder of
high-quality horses,
and lias had some
valuable blood stal-
lions on his run dur-
ing the last 20 years
in addition to an
Arab sire. Running
loose in the paddocks
these have mated
with many of the
wild mares, with the
result that, after a
recent round up of
some 60 of the brum-
bies, nearly all were
found to be of high
quality. The youn-
ger horses are being
broken for station
and other work.
while some of the older outlaws are being
reserved for a big camp draft and buck jump-
ing show which is to be held in Warwick
during October.
“Werrimee” : Two northern bushwhackers
were known as Snakeskin Sam and Goanna
Bob, from the reptile bands that they always
wore around their hats. Bob’s grey felt was
decorated with a nicely-plaited garland
fashioned from the skin of the lace lizard.
When roaming about the bush he was always
on the lookout for a nice variegated goanna.
There was nothing he admired more than
a lizard’s coat showing a bright carpet pat-
tern. Sam also had an ai v tistic eye for
skins, but his choice was snakes, and he
never seemed to consider himself properly
dressed without a bit of the old’ enemy
around his top gear. When he bought a
new hat his first thought was to find anew
reptile-band for it. His favorite was the
carpet or diamond, though he prized bandy-
bandys. He killed the wriggler with, great
care so as not to injure a scale, stripped it
with equal pains, and carefully tanned the
skin. When his grandmother died, and he
was expected to wear a black band, Sam
spent two days looking for one, and only
succeeded in - his quest the day before the
funeral. So he stitched on the fresh skin
of a black snake, and tanned it after he
returned to camp.
s*« ❖ *
“Jim Carew”: Not only can plants think,
but they sometimes exercise the most pro-
found ingenuity in carrying out their aims.
In a mountain gully behind Cobargo
(N.S.W.) I came across a liana vine (com-
monly called monkey rope) that lias achieved
what looks to me like a botanical miracle.
The gully is just over 40 yards wide. The
vine climbs up a big stringybark-tree on
one side and stretches straight across into
the branches of a tree on the other side.
Where it goes across the vine is almost
taut, and at no part is less than 50 feet
above ground. There are no small trees
in between on which it could have rested
while it was growing across the gully. How
did it manage it?
THE RAGGED THIRTEEN.
(A WESTRALIAN GOLDFIELDS MEMORY.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Kimberley southwards they battled
their way
When gold was the magnet in W.A.,
Through Ashburton, Pilbarra, Nullaghm, too.
And, tradition alleges, they parted at Cue.
Tis a full forty years, you may fairly depend,
Since their vagabond odyssey came to an end,
And ’tis odds they’re all vanished by now
from the scene.
Is there anyone left of The Ragged Thirteen?
I never laid eyes on a list of the lot,
And such names as were mentioned I’ve
mostly forgot,
But their stunts and their - struggles, their
feats and their fights,
Were popular topics round camp-fires o’
nights.
No cases so hard in that case-hardened land,
Men told, as that battered and brotherly
band;
Wild ructions and mix-ups and wigs on the
green
Distinguished the course of The Ragged
Thirteen.
Their failure ’twixt meum and tuum to draw
Distinction involved them at times with
the Law;
And squatters would voice apprehensions
profound
When they heard that these frayed Robin
Hoods were around.
Still we all have our faults and it’s equally
true
That there’s good in the most reprehensible,
too.
And, if sometimes high-handed, they never
were mean,
Those battlers resourceful, The Ragged
Thirteen.
Were they weathering a perish or staging
a jag,
They were never the fellows to falter or flag.
But their saga so grew that ’twas hard to
extract
Hilarious fiction from certified fact.
They varied their doings at times, it’s a fair
Assumption, with digging—or why were they
there ?
But no find or rush that I ever could glean
Was put on the map by The Ragged Thirteen.
NO MORE USE FOR BILLY.
CITY GIRL: “Oh Mary, he’s such a darling. I think I’ll have to take him back to Perth
with me.”
MARY:“Couldn’t spare this one, Missy. Couldn’t spare other-feller piccaninny either.
But you can have that-feller Billy.”
And whither they scattered is hidden, the
same
As who hit on their pithily eloquent name,
Yet they helped to make history, indeed and
indeed,
Though it’s hardly the sort you’re accus-
tomed to read.
There are plenty of pictures and photos to
hand
The features along of the salt of the land;
But alack and alas! no one ever has seen
(Or will do) a snap of The Ragged Thirteen.
N.S.W.
IFOED.


fasgt
Plum Razor Guard
THE RLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and fin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
Uf>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- eaeli
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black So/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/.
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each razor sef ready for use aiid guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4 300 000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DtT6ctOTB *
~ tAWr . e JUDAH COHEN (Chairman):
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
_ , London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
plricroi 68 Q uten . sland * New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
t ederal territory, Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
_. __ _ of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
HONE TE HEKE TE RANGITI MAU.
[For Tiie Bulletin.]
In the old Maori days, when races were held
Wherever the bush was sufficiently felled,
A runaway racehorse had broken its leg .
By striking a grass-covered boundary peg;
And Hone te Heke te Rangiti Mau,
A mission-trained Maori, saw easily how
He might make a good profit, and couldn’t
go wrong,
By buying that thoroughbred horse for a
song.
Approaching he said with ’ a good-natured
grin,
"P.v korry, I give you te pound for te skin.”
11 was no sooner said than the bargain was
made
And the horse was the Maori’s; the money
was paid,
And Hone te Heke te Rangiti Mau
Decided at once it was never or now.
So off to his village he hurriedly ran
To carry out promptly 'his villainous plan ;
And however unusual the narrative sounds,
He raffled the racehorse for two hundred
pounds.
The raffle completed, the money all paid,
I Ie decided to bolt with the profit he’d made:
But the villagers clustered around him like
flies,
1 the winner insisted on getting his prize :
haying no choice. Hone rushed him away
deliver the goods or to settle and pay.
hen they finally stood by the broken-down
horse,
announced in a voice all. clogged - with
remorse
“Py korry! No good! Here you plurry
pound back,”
And tensely awaited the counter-attack.
But the winner, himself a bit of a lad,
Was delighted to see how the others were
had;
For the Maori considers the greatest of
jokes
A shrewdly-manoeuvred, unscrupulous hoax.
So the matter was settled by paying a pound,
Which shows that the scheme was undoubt-
edly sound.
But the profits were spent in a riotous life.
Which ended in trouble with somebody’s
wife;
And Hone te Heke te Rangiti Mau
Was very effectively clubbed in the row....
They buried him down by the old mission
church
In the hope that the Devil was left in the
lurch.
MAORILAND. COLIN BlERNACKI.
SECRET AND CONFIDENTIAL.
SHIFT BOSS : “Hey, what’s ’ee doing, booays?”
Siah: “Sh, ’sail right, Cap’n. I just got a letter from wife an’ caan’t read un; so I
got fingers in William John’s ears so ’e caan’t hear what of woman says
while he reads un for me.”
“Red Light” : Those 10ft. Gippsland worms
maybe very entertaining to scientists, but rail-
waymen curse them. Recently I came across
a hole about Bft. deep and 6ft. in diameter
alongside a railway siding at Kernot (s.-e.
Gippsland) which underlay the line and
might have tipped a train over. The damage
was caused by the worm working its way
through the earth and leaving in its wake
a half-inch tunnel: The water following
started a slide and washed the earth through
an adjacent culvert.
**■ * *
“D.H.R.” : Among the Motu (New Guinea)
tribe dogs are accorded full human privi-
leges, and thereby hangs a
legend. In the beginning
the Motu had no fire, but:
cooked their food in the sun.
The time came when they
called a conference of tlie
animals and asked if any of
them could show them a
better way of cooking,. pro-
mising equality with mem-
bers of the tribe as a reward.
The Gunamaka (bush phea-
sant) promised, and went on
a long journey, but returned
unsuccessful. Then in suc-
cession went Gaigai (the
snake) , Hariba (the iguana).
Kibi (the quail), Magani
(the wallaby) and Boroma
(the pig), but all came back
and told the tribe there was
no better way of cooking.
Then Bovaro (the dog), who
had never done any boasting,
strolled leisurely away into
the bush without explana-
tion. He was away many
moons, but returned one
very cold night bearing a
blazing brand in his mouth.
Running round to several
heaps of driftwood, he fired
them and warmed the tribe.
Then he seized a bone, and
dropping it on a heap of
coals illustrated the art of fire-cooking.
❖ X ❖ ❖
“Taniwha”: When Alfred Hill, the com-
poser, was in Maoriland recently he told the
Auckland folk that Maori music lias "cap-
tured the imagination of the world.” That
may be a little too sweeping, but it is a
fact that Maori melody has a peculiar charm,
and that the race has evolved, a musical
idiom that is distinctive, and extensively
developed. The widespread appeal of Mr.
Hill’s gleanings in this field, in which he
seems to be the only delver, is proof that
the Maori contribution to music is not to
be despised. The Maori scale has never been
analysed, so far as I am aware. Like most
primitive musical systems • it contains
quarter-tones, and the form of most of the
waiata, or songs, is chant-like. But there
is endless variety in purpose and character.
The serenade, the lullaby, the ncerologe and
the chanty have their parallels, and I am
wondering how long it will be before some
enterprising Yankee jazz factory, tired of
the ukulele formulas, will discover the" Maori
atahu. An atalm is a most useful sort of
song, because if you sing it .properly it will
cause a girl to fall in love with you even
if she has never seen you. There are certain
conventions followed in all Maori music.
The voice falls at the completion of a
“WHAT CARE I HOW FAIR THEY BE
IF THEY BE NOT FARE TO ME!"
phrase or figure—that’s the Manga conven-
tion. Vowels, in which the Maori tongue
abounds, are vastly lengthened for the pur-
poses of song, and words are altered (some-
times in a manner that makes the meaning
an insoluble mystery) to make them fit
smoothly into the song. Neglect this and you
are guilty of huatua , fear of which rides Mr.
Hill when he sets English words to Maori
cadences. There are many forms of song
that utilise the now-decadent art of vitu-
peration. Most vigorous of these is the
kaioraora, in which, generally, is expressed
a simple human desire to (a) slay one’s
enemy, (h) cook him, (cl eat him, ( d )
boil his brains and drink the juice. Maori
music can be angry, affectionate, wistful,
regretful or solemn, but it is never merry.
Even the briskest of Jiakas (which are not
war-dances) is imbued .with melancholy. But
that’s the keynote of the Maoriland land-
scape, and the Maori musician is indissolubly
in. tune with Nature.
*:< # * *
“P.F.”: There is a lot of prejudice and
misinformation mixed up with truth in the
campaign against Alsatian dogs. Pure-bred
this type, is nothing more nor less than the
German sheep-dog ( Deutsche schdferhund).
It was; not till 191 S that it was named
Alsatian. It is, so far .as German records
go, wonderfully intelligent and faithful, and
its pedigree reaches back to the days of the
Roman Empire. Though it has a wolf-like
appearance, it has no wolf strain in its
blood. The skull of the wolf and that of the
Alsatian are entirely different. Sixty years
ago two strains, one from Thuringia and
the other from Wiirtemburg' were interbred,
the first breeders being , shepherds and
farmers. No dog was considered true to
type who would not instinctively . drive his
flock to shelter unbidden at the approach of
a 1 storm. So swiftly did the dogs improve
in build that they were soon used for the
pursuit of bears and wild boars. To-day tbe
animal is guarding men as .well as sheep
on the Continent. It is a poor specimen
which cannot jump an SftCwall, or tackle
an armed criminal. In Sydney the Alsatian
has-been and is the victim of excessive in-
breeding, which, as with humans, makes for
madness. #
% * & *!: &
“S.T.S.”: A strayed frost-fish, found dead
on the beach at Glenelg r (S.A.), is.welcomed
by Adelaide Museum as the first of its kind
seen in those waters. It is the Maoriland
hiku, rather like, a barracouta, but tasting
better*, and this one ran to over sft.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Kooragai”: The important thing about
selecting a saddle is to get it the right size.
The dip of the seat, the rise of the pommel,
and the lay of the kneepads against the legs
vary a lot in different saddles, but these,
things don’t matter so much as the general
size of the hogskin in comparison with the
seating requirements of the rider. A small
man in a very wide saddle has a poor chance
with a rooter under him, and a man might
be able to ride a horse bareback that would
throw him out of a saddle that was too small.
Some horsemen like big kneepads, but the
balanced rider doesn’t care whether he’s got
kneepads or not, provided the saddle fits
him, and is set so that he sits naturally and
at his ease. Too much rear padding throws
the body forward; too little imposes a
back-aching strain on the rider. A working
horse will also suffer discomfort, and perhaps
a sore back, if the rider is uncomfortably
seated.
* * * *
“Esau”: Just a word on. behalf of the
native birds of N. S. Wales. These are
being destroyed in myriads through the
practice of poisoning rabbits with strychnine
and jam. The use of any sweet substance
for poisoning rabbits should be made a
penal offence ; the best bait, where the car-
case is not required for food, is strychnine
and thistle-roots. The root is sliced, and on
each slice several grains of the poison are
rubbed in with a penknife. The baits are
then dropped about the warrens in the
afternoon, and in thickly infested areas hun-
dreds of rabbits can be poisoned each day.
Sheep and cattle rarely touch these baits;
birds and the native bee, never.
“Yam”: By way of encouraging prospec-
tors I would suggest the establishment of
a Government supply depot in the Macdon-
nell Ranges. This should be a police sta-
tion, like the Queensland outpost at
Anthony’s Lagoon. There is good perma-
nent water in parts of the Macdonnells, and
no doubt soakages could be found in many
other apparently dry places. The country
resembles that around Mt. Browne (N.S.W.)
and 1 the Tibooburra goldfield, where the
miners depend chiefly on soakages and dams.
The tapping of water here , and there, dis-
tant from the natural reservoirs, would
encourage prospectors to venture into that
region,, which is. known to contain minerals
of ; many kinds. A light aeroplane for scout,
duty would make the situation safer still.
“L.1.G.”: • Peatlier-eating on the part of
co.ckatoos, a matter the Service Department
frequently lias to deal with, is in my experi-
ence of the birds purely a matter of diet.
Buy your seed .from a seed merchant, with
plenty ,of black sunflower-seed , included.
Avoid peanuts. In addition to good seed, feed
with small quantities of any table scraps,
particularly bones and meat, potatoes (boiled,
fried or roasted), served hot; cabbage, cauli-
flowers, bread and butter, green peas in shell,
apples, bananas, oranges, rice pudding—
almost anything. He will reject what he
dislikes. Let him have fresh water daily,
plenty of lawn cuttings in his cage, sand in
a corner and a billet of wood to play with.
A hard bluegum perch, oiled when new with
old sump oil, will never be chewed. Carry
out these instructions and Cocky will not
chew his quills, and his plumage' will shine
like a cat’s eye under a bed.


J Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
The Hotel Alexander
122-132 SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE (opp. Railway Station)
200 Rooms —■■■; ■■■— 200 Baths
TARIFF PER DAY;
Room and Meals ,
Room and Breakfast .. .. .. 15/-
Telephone: F 4141 (10 lines)
One of the Richardson Chain of Residential Hotels
ISgSir
Hi
m
H
r' .- '*: ••
•}*; ilfl
WtiU 33 11 pil
Jw l ft 33 || II 53 is
jj3’2
a 3i
2.3
11
.i • '
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • • • 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
.£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agepeies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE ~ .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
SMOKE-OH!
It never rains on Saturday afternoon but
it palls.
¥ v
“Every year sees a large increase in the number
of Americans who go abroad as tourists.”
—“S. Jtf. Herald.”
Seeking new spots, of course.
* ¥
OVER-ADVANCED.
“Our loans were intended for the development
of Australia, but the country would probably have
been better off without them.” — “Age.”
“Advance Australia!” lenders used to say,
As on their money they released their
clutch;
But now, alas! it’s obvious that they
Advanced Australia just a bit too much.
A CERT.
“Put a few bob on, Jacky. I’m running him to-day!”
"Py cripes, you’ll beat him, too, py th’ prurry look of
him!”
As long as we go on picking the winners
the bookmakers will go on winning the
pickers.
* *
UNDER SUSPICION.
' “One of America’s best-known millionaires is visit-
ing Australia in his yacht. He is described as ex-
tremely reserved.”
“I tell you what, Gus, as one Aussie
reporter to another, it’s my belief he’s an
impostor.”
“Howszat?”
“Well I crashes his yacht this morning,
and the first question I naturally asks is
‘Where’s Junior?’ He registers dumbness,
so I says, ‘Don’t tell me you haven’t come
here to cure Junior of the hooch habit, and
separate him from a Ziegfcld Follies star.
Now lissen, bo, that guy’s all right. You’re
the one that’s to blame, see. You brought
him up wrong. The goil’s all right, too.
Give ’em a break. Cable to her humble New
York aportment, where she’s living her
broken life with her dear old Irish mother
and her dad, the cop, and. invite her and
family to join you and your wealth-crazed
friends on some tropic isle where every
suspiration of tbe swaying palms whispers
of illimitable passion. There, amid the
weaving bodies of the voluptuous hula-hula
dancers, while a golden moon shines down on
youthful love’s delirious raptures, Junior and
the goil’ ‘What on earth are you
talking about?’ he interrupts, sort of stiff-
like. Suddenly I notices that he ain t
wearing a frat. pin, and next that he’s not in
constant communication with Wall-street. No
dictaphones, no buzzers, no boys rushing
about with cables, no sekkataries. I decides
to test him. ‘Got such a thing as a flask
on the hip?’ I asks craftily. His face
begins working convulsively, and then I
notices something else: Damme, if the table
hasn’t got ordinary legs! In other words,
it’s useless for the purpose of being danced
on when he and his fashionable guests make
the usual whoopee at dinner. Simulta-
neously his butler enters (he’d had his hand
on the bell-push for some time), and that
settles him so far as I’m concerned. There
was a hat near by, and, believe me or believe
me not, he didn’t slam it on the old retainer’s
head and poke him in the stomach. ‘I won’t
wait,’ I says. ‘You’re wasting my time.
You’re no more like an American million-
aire than I am, and I speak as a film-fan
wbo’s seen every Hollywood society picture
since the talkies came in.’ ”
* #
IN HARMONY.
“ ‘My husband,’ complained the petitioner, _in
answer to her counsel, ‘was always late—studying
music at his studio, so he said.’ ”
“Quite correct,” chimed in respondent. “I
used to study Offenbach.”
v *
“THE SYDNEY MONOPOLIST.”
Greatest Pub in Gloom-street.
(Advt.)
There were originally no less than Five
Pubs in Gloom-street. Not only did they
supply different brands of
liquor, but they charged a
paltry 2d. each for them.
Proffits and Co., Tied House
Specialists, recently decided,
in the Public Interest, that
this undesirable state of
Affairs must Cease. _ Fear-
lessly, resolutely, as is their
patriotic habit, they struck
a master-blow for The
People, whose Faithful Ser-
vants they are, and, with the
help of God and Empire,
eVer will be, and incorpo-
rated all five establishments
in one mighty Super-Pub,
which has been aptly named
the Greatest Pub in Gloom-
street. In addition to being
the Greatest it has the
further distinction (the com-
mercial value of which needs
no stressing) of being the
Only Pub in the street.
In this Daring New Ven-
ture are incorporated all the
Splendid Features which
caused the others to be
adjudged worthy of death.
In view of the hard times,
which makes the earning of
bigger dividends Imperative,
Proffits and Co. have decided
to Aid the Nation by in-
creasing prices by 334 per
cent., thus Relieving Patrons
of the intolerable suspicion
that they may be Getting
Too Much for their money.
In all the circumstances
“The Monopolist” looks for-
ward to a remunerative career. Its Direc-
tors hope their supporters Like It—-if they
don’t, they can Lump It.
%■
EPITAPH.
“John North, who died at Norwich worth: £BO,OOO,
escaped the cares of most rich men by passing as
poor.”— Cable.
North has gone West, which means he’s
ceased
To pull a poor, dejected mouth;
His life in 'his last days was Eased,
Because he put his money South.
THEN WE WOKE UP.
“There is a movement afoot to make it worth
Bradman’s while to refuse £lOOO p.a., the offer
of the Accrington (Lancs.) club.”
It was revealed last week that a promi-
nent British Parliamentary party is negotiat-
ing to secure the services of Mr. J. T. Lang
at a salary of £lO,OOO p.a. Horrified at the
news a public meeting was immediately called
by leading capitalists, at which it was unani-
mously decided that something should be done,
Mr Bavin said: “We can ill afford to lose
men of Mr. Lang’s type in this hour of need.”
(Mr. Parkhill: “Hear! Hear!”) “I suggest
that half a million sterling be raised by public
subscription and offered to Mr. Lang as a
counter-attraction.” Mr. Bavin concluded
that he would head the list with £lOOO. He
had no doubt that the full amount could be
raised in the Union and Australian clubs
a j one .
Mr. Theodore supported Mr. Bavin’s
remarks and offered to resign his seat in
Parliament if Mr. Lang would deign to
accept it
The gathering broke up with the singing of
“For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow,” by Colonel
Campbell of the New Guard, accompanied
by Tom ’Enley on the six-shooter.
S. Esq.
Y Y
“Labor absolutely refuses to help form a National
Government.”
Pure Caucussedness.
FORCE OF HABIT.
Angry Wife ( ex-schoolmistress ): “You’re
late again, sir. You will write out 7
must be home by ten o’clock’ one hun-
dred times.”
“Dole-drawers prefer the city to the dusty Out-
back.”
All too true. “Dust thou art, to dust
returnest,” was not spoken of the dole.
TOO BAD!
A man takes a woman for better or worse,
The bargain is well understood;
But the thought that makes many a tired
hubby curse
Is that he has got her for good.
WHEN HORSE IS KING.
Now is the time of festive spring when
mugs grow ripe and Horse is King. Aus-
tralia’s fairly in its Cups, and everywhere
one dines or sups, or ridesi on ferry, ’bus or
train, you hear “Will Phar Lap win again?”
While the excitement’s running hot none
think of loss; yet quite a lot of blatant fic-
tion punters spout. Fivers and tenners
whiz about that never knew a banknote’s
tissue—a fine fiduciary issue! And hundreds
in a casual way are mentioned lightly every
day.
Meantime my tradesmen wait for pelf,
for I have risked a quid myself!
H. M.
¥ *
“The N.S.W. Savings Bank has never witnessed
such exciting scenes as now, when the lottery is in
full swing.”
To improve on Shakspeare “There is a
bank at which a wild time grows.”
* *
THE “SUNDAY BLURB” INTERVIEWS
AN UNDERWORLD LEADER.
The popular conception of “Stonker”
Switchham is born of ignorance of the innate
charm of this powerful underworld leader. To
our representative, who was privileged, to meet
“Stonker” and his attractive wife in their
neat suburban home, his philosophic outlook
on life in all its ramifications was a revela-
tion. Fresh from his 23rd acquittal on a
capital charge, Mr. Switchham was assi-
duously cleaning his sawn-off shotgun on
the front lawn. (See inset of this deadly
weapon on our pictorial page.)
“Well, wotthehell d’yerwant!” was his un-
orthodox greeting. This is typical of the great
gangster’s attitude. Aggressive. Straight
from the shoulder.
“Have you any message for ‘Sunday
Blurb’ readers?”
“Stonker” stared in his penetrating manner
—the stare before which many an enemy has
quailed. “No —gitterhell outovere !”
There again ! Character in every syllable.
The interview, of necessity short of dura-
tion, serves to give our readers an idea of
the private and domestic life of one of Syd-
ney’s best-advertised ruffians. His yearn-
ings for the beautiful in nature; his love of
little children; his pride in his wonderful
death-dealing gun and his lovely wife. These
bespeak the man.
And so the “Sunday Blurb” left him, bur-
nishing up his gun that fires the dum-dum
bullets, amid the sylvan surroundings of the
delightful bungalow where the gangster and
his petite and dainty spouse entertain the
friends of their chosen profession. Their
home, around which but recently beat the
reverberations of the bloody battle which
had such fatal results for “Corpsey” Flynn
(see our artist’s conception of the recon-
structed crime on page 14, showing “Stonker'
dropping his man), was bathed in the ruddy
glow of the setting sun as our representa-
tive left. Was it Nature’s attempt at sym-
bolism ?
Watch out for our great attraction next
Sunday : “The baleful influence of publicity on
crime.” And be sure you order your copy
in advance.
S. W. K.
“A horse like Phar Lap makes himself loved by
the multitude.”
And so would the rest of us if we had
his winning ways.
* T-
“lmprisonment has no effect on some men.”
— “Argun.”
Stone walls and watchful warders fail
To cause some men from sin to climb.
To gaol them is of no avail —
In fact, it is a waste of time!
•V *
“A guide to the Taronga Park Zoo is badly
needed.”
Exactly. A Zoo’s Who.
v *
HIS LESSON.
The first prosecution under the N.S.W.
Transport Act took place yesterday. Accused,
a middle-aged man, w r as charged with “wil-
fully and of malice aforethought offering a
lift in his car.”
Comrade Inspector Snitch said that at 4
p.m. the previous day he saw accused, who was
driving a car, pull up and signal to a woman.
She entered the car and accused was going
to drive away when witness arrested him.
Cross-examined.- —The female was on the
footpatli and there was a tram a block and
a half away. She was obviously waiting for
it. When searched at the police station she
proved to have Bd. in her purse. It was
significant that this was the exact fare
to her suburb.
Re-examined. —Accused said that the
female was his wife. Even if true it was
not a valid defence under the Act.
Comrade Motorman Squeel said he was
driving his tram in George-street the previous
day. At 4 p.m. he was about a block from
the G.P.O. He saw accused in a motor-car.
Comrade Inspector Snitch was talking to
him. Accused, admitted having invited the
female into his car and didn’t deny that
had he not done so she might have boarded
witness’s tram.
The crowd, who appeared to be loyal Lang-
ites to a man and a woman, were incensed
at accused’s disloyal conduct.
Comrade Magistrate Snarkc said it "was
not necessary to hear further evidence. The
“TAKE ’EM BACK—YOU'VE GIVE ME
SOMEBODY’S LAY-BY!”
offence was clear. The public services must
he protected. Morally accused had no right
to drive a car at all while the tramways
and railways were not paying. The sentence
was six months’ hard labor, the car to be
sold and proceeds paid into tne (_;Oiisolidatecl
Revenue, where the lottery money is. “Let
this,” he concluded grimly, be a lesson to
accused, and a warning to others. ’
FIGURED OUT.
“Where
in Heaven
have yon been?
D id you hear
the town clock chime?
What precisely
do you mean,
Coming home
at such a time ?
Who was with
you? Oh!
A mat e,”
So the wife
when I am
late, talk-
i n g on
still in the
dark,
Like
a blessed
question-
mark !


0 the first-choice tyre costs
OWT no more, there’s not much
point in buying the second-choice
tyre, is there? Well, Goodyear
Tyres cost no more! And, as for
being first-choice, they’re that by
millions - more - sold every year.
’’More people ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.”
You owe it to yourself to know
the reasons why Goodyear Tyres
lead all others so greatly. They
are the very reasons that
should prompt you also to
decide ”1 will buy only
'ttvß'
y( leading make of tyre!”
'/////A
WsV/M
ssssV/.S
%
VJ
%
y/s
'/A
y
9A
:■■'//
vysA
~ZZrSi
"*c.:
e
TWO REASONS
Why Goodyear is the
Leading Make of Tyre:
The famous Good-
year All - Weather
Tread is superior in
traction. Note how the
deep-cut tight-grip ping
blocks are placed in the
centre of the tread,
where they belong. Press
the palm of your hand
upon this tread and feel
how the blocks grip and
pinch the flesh. This
illustrates the All-
Weather Tread’s hold-
fast action on city streets
or country roads.
The Goodyear Super-
twist Cord Carcass is
superior in vitality and
long life. Under
continued flexing
>r sudden road-
shock, where ordinary
cords fatigue or snap,
the extra-elastic Super-
twist Cords stretch and
recover, like rubber
bands. Ask your Good-
year Dealer to show you
on his cord-testing ma-
chine the extra stretch —
up to 61% greater—of
Supertwist Cord over the
cord used in other
tyres.
P
&
V
C 14-5
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


fasgt
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
\s'
THINK OF
SCHUTEj
BELL&Cuo.
If you Have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
>1 A^fantlnn
Offices: 44 Bridge Sired. Sidney.
fasgt
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to: —
c« PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
U COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office : P. & G. Building, comer Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd.
QUEENSLAND
Is Your Market!
Why not exploit it fully? Its favor-
able position is known and admitted
by everyone.
Tell the people of Queensland of your
goods and services. There is no better
vehicle open to you than the press—
the most powerful of all advertising
mediums. Particularly should your
first choice be
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
the only daily in Brisbane that has
issued a certificate of its Net Daily
circulation, and the paper that is a
proved result-getter. Rate cards, etc.,
from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ROBERT JACKSON : Daily Mail Office,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT & SON, New Bridge St.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED
MEAL
THE GET-UP OF THE CLIP.
“Murrawong”: Don’t pile too many restric-
tions on the woolclasser. He is not alto-
gether on the job for what he can make out
of the shed. He has a reputation to main-
tain, and he can only maintain it by getting
up the clip as attractively as circum-
stances will permit. The majority of
graziers and some brokers demand as
few lines as possible. In some sheds
where there are a minimum of bins, the
classer has no option. He may find himself
with a mixed medley of fleeces to handle,
embodying all types, lengths and qualities—
to say nothing of color and condition—■►-and
his instructions are to make no more than
three lines. In my experience, it is always
the owner with the greatest variety of types
in his flocks who insists on the fewest number
of lines, and who moans loudest at the
resultant prices.
Fat lines save space in the sale catalogue,
but they are also the greatest form of en-
couragement to lot-splitters. When a wool-
buyer finds a line of the type for which lie
has orders mixed with a proportion of fleeces
that his principals do not handle, his interest
in the offering is only lukewarm, whereas a
line even in type and quality will arouse
competition and extend buyers to their limits.
I do not advocate small super-lines, built
up at the expense of the rest of the clip to
bring a fancy price. Wherever possible give
the classer a chance to make even lines.
Anyone still doubting should visit a store
where re-packing on a large scale is carried
on. The re-packer’s livelihood depends on
these mixed lines of wool, useless to the
overseas buyer; he re-classes them into even
attractive lots to suit the market. He knows
what is wanted.
USES FOR INFERIOR WOOL.
“Wen”: Figures supplied by a Sydney
mattress-maker show that Australian cotton
costs about lOd. per pound, while kapok runs
out at about the same price. Now, graziers
have heaps of inferior wool stacked at their
sheds—wool that would not return freight,
and as a matter of fact could not be sold at
all in many cases. It would pay the sheep-
man to send it to the woolscour and sell it
to the bedding manufacturer. Scouring costs
about ljd. per pound here in Moree, so,
supposing the grazier was sriven 3d. per
pound for wool which otherwise would only
be burnt or given away, the cost, with
freight added, would not exceed 6d. per
pound to the bedding manufacturer. Wool
is recognised to possess first-rate qualities as
a filling for mattresses and cushions, and
as it seems that it can be supplied at about
4d. per pound less than either kapok or
cotton, it should appeal to the manufacturer
of these articles. The use need not stop
at bedding either.
WEIGHING FAT LAMBS.
“Golightly”: Few farmers know what
their fat sucker lambs will weigh when
dressed. My plan is to yard them overnight.
Place an ordinary sheep crate upon the wool-
shed weighing-machine—it will hold five
lambs. Select average ones, weigh the lot,
deduct the weight of crate, and from the
balance deduct 56 per cent, and divide by
five. The result gives the approximate aver-
age dressed weight of any particular draft
of fat lambs. Then any farmer in touch with
saleyard quotes per pound of lamb will be
pretty near the mark of what his returns will
be.
A neighbor of mine recently received
advice from his saleyard agents that sucker
lambs were selling well, and if he had any
now was the time to cash them. Five hun-
dred were forwarded and the net returns
were just half the expectation. This good
sheepman did not know that his lambs were
too light for profit.
SUDAN GRASS.
“Liss”: For those in the drier parts of
N. S. Wales wlio wish to conserve fodder,
in the form of either hay or ensilage, there
is no better crop than Sudan grass, and
the breeder of fat lambs, looking for a green
crop for summer grazing, will find it hard
to beat. Sudan grass is both a rapid grower
and a heavy yielder. Sown through every
run of a wheat-drill so that it will be fine-
stemmed, it makes perfect pit silage—a great
standby in drought time.
Contrary to a widespread belief, Sudan
grass is a perfectly safe grazing crop at any
stage of its growth. The cases of stock
poisoning, in which the grass was blamed,
were caused by plants of sorghum or
sorghum-Sudan-grass hybrids in the crop,
due to the use of impure seed. At certain
stages of their growth sorghums have a high
hydrocyanic-acid content, and in the hybrids
it is even higher. Therefore it is impera-
tive, if the crop is to be used for grazing,
that one should obtain clean seed. As all
the sorghums cross-fertilise very easily
Sudan-grass seed should never be harvested
from a crop grown in the vicinity of one of
them. The Department of Agriculture will
test seed samples for farmers prior to-pur-
chase. When shelled the seeds of pure Sudan
grass are flat, elongated and slightly pointed
at the ends, and : are smaller than the pure
sorghum seeds, which are rounder. The
hybrid seeds are about the same size as the
Sudan seeds and are quite round.
The crop should be sown as soon as the
warm weather sets in—say, early October —
in well-prepared ground, using 101 b. of seed
and lewt. of super, to the acre.
LOPPING TREES.
“E.S.” : On (sheep-runs in drought time tree-
lopping is common, and men who have not
been used to arboreal exercises have to tackle
a thing which requires some skill. The new
hand should begin on low trees and gradually
inure himself to greater heights. A use-
ful aid in getting up a clean-boled tree is
the contrivance used by telegraph-line re-
pairers; failing that, try a long, light
ladder with a crescent-shaped piece of round
iron at the top, to fit against the round
trunk of the tree, so that the ladder will not
slip or cant aside; this saves a lot of tough
work. Another easy and safe method is
to bolt or tie two light ladders together at
the top so that they will stand like household
steps. They can be stuck up anywhere
under the branches and used for lopping
small trees that are too thin and limber for
climbing or to stand a ladder against.
Cutting trees down is waste. Lopped, a
good fodder tree provides feed for many
seasons. But lopping is not a mere haphazard
cutting of the branches, or chopping them off
anyhow and anywhere. It should be done
neatly and to the best advantage of the
future growth of the tree, So as to provide
both shade and feed. Most trees are all the
better for trimming and put on thicker tops
if it is done properly. The limbs should
be cut off cleanly, as broken or split ends
mean dead and useless wood.
Where fodder trees are few and valued,
it is better to use a large-toothed pruning-
saw than an. axe or a tomahawk. The saw
gets through the work quickly and is far
easier and safer to use among the branches
than an axe. The limb should be cut a
little way in on the underside first, other-
wise it will split and damage the part that
the pruner wants to save. Many a serious
accident happens through an axe striking
another branch or catching against a twig.
With a saw there is no such risk.
LIMING OF GRASS-LAND.
“Agrarian” : The neglect to lime grass-land
in Victoria has been one of its agricultural
tragedies. “B. Ware” (B. 16/9/’3l) is
correct in saying that tons per acre do not
pay. I found that out, but also found out
that when the lime is strictly limited it is
surprisingly more effective when mixed with
the super., and not applied after the super.,
as “B. Ware” advises. I discovered this by
accident at Hamilton in 1917. In 1918 and
in 1919 I was in charge of the departmental
plots; disobeying orders, I placed the lime
(lOcwt.) on the land first and followed with
the super. The results aroused the Western
District, and the top-dressing campaign
began; but the experiment led to my resign-
ing from the department. Since then I have
again and again proved the correctness of
this method. In other words, a mixture of
super, and lime, half and half, is thoroughly
satsifactory when applied to all sour grassland.
When the results of using this mixture
became evident I believed that all the text-
books condemned such mixing. I was wrong.
Prof. Paterson, of Perth, in “Nature in
Farming,” recommends it for land lacking
in lime; the reason is that soluble phosphate
when put on such soil reverts to bad forms
by combining with iron or alumina or silica.
If we mix lime with it first it reverts to
citrate soluble phos. of lime, which is suffici-
ently available, and does not readily form
unholy unions with soil particles.
The subject is*one of immense value, to
Australia in relation to the health of live-
stock and the quality of dairy produce.
Though much good can be secured by use of
compound mineral licks the real key to health
and production is a well-balanced soil. The
moulding of the surface soil so as to pro-
mote better drainage is often a necessary
preliminary to effective top-dressing. Lime in
quantity, if available at low price, will
improve the draining quality of the soil.
If the soil is not properly ventilated the
sulphide of lime in the super, becomes a
sulphide, and toxic. Regular harrowing is
a big help. These conditions favor better
grasses and are inimical to fungi and para-
sites, and the better nutrition of the animals
gives more resistance to nearly all these
disease-producing things.
The value of such plants as sub.-clover
is due to their remarkable foraging power,
as they secure their phos. from the refrac-
tory forms in the soil. They also are adapt-
able and often become of inferior quality
as the soil is denuded of its scarcer ele-
ments. Paspalum dilatatum and kangaroo
grass are very adaptable to soil conditions.
Many have condemned them as weeds. Ihe
governing factors are climate and soil con-
ditions. We have heard much lately of lamb
mortality and faulty dairy produce, and we
know that alkaline conditions inhibit the
development of harmful blights and fungi.
Therefore the neglect of liming in a practical
and intelligent way has very serious conse-
quences. Until lime is made available at a
low cost per ton by co-operative efforts I
strenuously advocate the liming of the super.
A MINOR PIG MYSTERY.
“A.F.S.”: Rape is considered good pig feed
in our district, the South Burnett (Q. )•
It is generally cut and thrown, to the grow-
ing pigs; but at least one farmer was accus-
tomed to running pigs on it. He had a fane
crop this year, and expected something
special in pig production. But almost as
soon as the pigs were turned into the pad-
dock they developed a skin rash which became
itching sores, especially round the neckband
ears. After a short time they had rubbed
their ears dowm to almost nothing. "his
had happened in a milder way the previous
year, about the same time, though it was
a poorer crop. . . ...
The farmer sought the opinion of the
Department of Agriculture, and received a
letter from the expert in pig-raising stating
that rape was known to produce a rash
upon the tender skin of young pigs, especi-
ally about the ears and neck. He suggested
taking them off the rape and treating them
with ointment. This was done, and the
patients soon improved. Put on again for
a short trial, they almost immediately
developed the itch. They were at once turned
off altogether, and are speedily recovering
except for their almost imperceptible ears.
The rape is now cut and thrown to them, and
all is well; but is it because of the sapping
by cutting or the rationing of the fodder.'
Has anyone had experience of this before.'
THE CHECK TO W.A. WHEAT.
“Tuart”: In 1920-21 Westralia had
1275,600 acres under wheat. During the
ensuing decade wheat-growing made such
giant strides that in 1930-31 the sown area
reached 4,154,700 acres, the yield of grain
being 52,000,000 bushels. In 1927-28, for
the first time, the State planted more wheat
than South Aus.; for four successive years
it has had much bigger harvests than its
neighbor (which, of course, has had to con-
tend with bad seasons) ; in 1927-28 and
1929-30 it was at the top of the wheat-grow-
ing States.
But the fall in prices has been severely
felt by the Westralian farmers, many of
whom are still in the pioneering stage; and
this is reflected in crop statistics for the
present season.
It is estimated that the sown area has
shrunk to 3,320,500 acres. The reduction
is greatest (27 p.c.) in the comparatively
moist northern agricultural division, where
the farmers can go in fo'r other crops and
for stock; it is smallest (13 p.c.) in the
dry eastern-goldfields division, where the
settlers are almost wholly dependent on
wheat —though a few are trying flax. It is
a great pity that a check should have been
given to an industry on which have been
expended so much courage, knowledge pain-
fully acquired and hard work; there is no-
thing more inspiriting to our latter-day in-
dustrial history than the transformation of
what was once reckoned a waterless desert,
useless even for grazing, into a great wheat
belt.
One comforting feature is that the season
has been favorable; crop prospects are very
good. And the recent rise in prices at least
inspires the hope that brighter days are in
store for those who were urged by faithless
politicians to Grow More Wheat, and did,
and were done like a dinner.
TREELESS WHEAT FARMS.
“Wescocky”: There has been reckless
destruction of timber in the Westralian
wheat belt; where salmon-gum, gimlet and
the like once flourished, hundreds of farmers
have scarcely a tree on their property. It
is not exactly the sort of country in which
soil erosion is a grave danger; all the same,
the effect of the heavy winds and water is
quite noticeable on fallowed light lands.
Then there is the threat of salt creep. In
places now bereft of natural trees and shrubs
large patches of greasy-looking ground
appear, while scattered over the surface
particles of salt sparkle in the sunshine.
Nothing imported will thrive on these
patches, which continually increase in size.
Saltbush, that splendid stock fodder, should
be planted where such areas appear. It will
give far better results than trying to grow
wheat where salt is' creeping over the paddock.
With increased stock-raising windbreaks are
needed. Small plots of trees should be
planted in every corner of the stock pad-
docks and along fences that run at right-
angles to the prevailing winds. It is a
good plan to plant avenues of trees along al]
lanes, and a small plantation of kurrajongs
around the dam makes a fine windbreak.
MARKETING GRAIN ON THE HOOF.
“Jack Point”: Cases quoted in the Land
Section a few months back demonstrated the
wisdom of having several strings to your
bow when prices for your main crops are
unpayable. Whilst wheat turned out a
losing proposition by itself, many who fat-
tened pigs on it and marketed it in the
form of pork did fairly well. This idea
is capable of extension. Poultry as well
as pigs can be fattened on a diet consisting
almost wholly of wheat or maize, and they
can be disposed of to much better advantage
and to a much wider circle of buyers than
the grain can.
For years poultry has been looked upon
as a luxury in Australia, and consumption
per head is very low. With the elimination
of unnecessary middlemen, it is possible to
bring prices down to a point where they
compare favorably with those of other meats
and thus greatly increase consumption. In
the U. S. Navy poultry now figures regu-
larly on the menu three or four times a week
for all hands, having been placed on prac-
tically the same footing as beef, after dietic
and economic tests extending over a period
of five years.
The old idea was for the farmer to regard
poultry as a minor side-line. When any
were ready for market they were just cooped
up and consigned away alive to sell for what
they would fetch. What a difference if birds
are killed, dressed and packed on the farm
and sent away in cases to a retailer who
sells direct to the public! Here we can
learn from America again. There you can
see birds dressed and packed to perfection,
of exactly the same size, color and shape—
something to whet the consumer’s appetite
for such a pleasant change of diet.
BANANA-PLANTING TIME.
“Azac”: A substantial additional area of
banana land has been brushed on the Tweed
(N.S.W.) this year and will all be burnt
off within the next few weeks. As soon
as the ground cools down after the fire,
planting will commence. As faulty planting
methods are the rule rather than the excep-
tion, here are a few points.
The first job is to mark out the land, but
it is waste of time to take too much trouble;
after a year or two, no matter how much
care is taken, the stools spread and get out
of alignment. If it is possible to plough in
one direction, run furrows 12ft. apart and
then mark off, by means of a 12ft. measur-
ing-stick, the positions of the plants along
the first and last furrows. Sighting sticks
are used to mark the intermediate furrows,
Where it is not possible to plough, sighting
sticks and a measuring-rod or -chain have to
be depended upon. Bananas are invariably
planted on the square, and 12ft. by 12ft. is
going to be the fashion.
Where many planters err is in not making
the planting holes sufficiently large. In a
deep rich soil the usual recommendation
(although it is seldom followed) is to dig
the holes 15in. to 18in. deep and 12in. to
15in. in diameter. My experience shows that
it is wise to go the full 18in. in, depth,
unless there is a stiff clay sub-soil fairly
near the surface, and make the holes not
less than 20in. in diameter. The idea of
the hole is to enable the Sucker to be
planted in the centre, and about 4in. to 6in.
under the surface ,of a saucer-like depres-
sion. The banana is a surface-rooter to a
large extent, and the object of planting
deeply and in a saucer-like depression is to
ensure that the initial root system is deep
in the soil. It will in time tend to come
to the surface, but this can be counter-
acted while the plant is becoming established
by gradually filling in the depression when
cultivating. Moreover, the “saucer” acts as
a catchment for rain. The benefits of a
fairly large “saucer” must be obvious.
When digging the holes, place the sweet-
ened top soil to one side; then, after trim-
ming the sucker, put a couple of inches
of top soil in the bottom of the hole, place
the sucker on top of it and cover it with
more top soil to a depth of 2in. or 3in.
Trample down the steep sides of the hole
so as to cover the sucker to a further 2in.
or 3in., and at the same time form the
“saucer.” Finally, tread the soil down firmly
round the sucker. Shallow planting, par-
ticularly during" a dry year, is responsible
for more small bunches than any other factor.
(Continued on Page 23.)


SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTERS
Reduce Harvesting Costs because
They Get the Maximum Yield of Grain from Difficult Crops.
No matter how badly a crop is down, or how much it is choked with thistles, the Sunshine
Header Harvester will rescue from it the highest possible percentage of grain.
mm.
:wm
m
mm,
From the storm-lashed wreck of a crop here
illustrated, Messrs. Cole Bros., of Duri,
N.S.W., took off eight bags of wheat to the
acre with their “Sunshine.”
Moreover, without being treated or graded,
but just as it came from the Header, the
sample won Four First Prizes and Champion
ships, including the 1931 Championship of
Australia at the Royal Easter Show.
The Sunshine Header Harvester
6ft., Bft. and 10ft. Cut.
The machine that harvests the great bulk
of Australia’s annual grain crop.
For work on sandy or very hilly country, or for
rice-harvesting, it can be supplied with a 4-cylinder
petrol engine incorporated to drive the mechanism.
A small team suffices for haulage. The Sunshine
Header Harvester also harvests field-peas, and for
this purpose a special pea-reaping front is attached
to the 6ft. or Bft. machine.
Write for Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue and particulars of Reduced Prices, also particulars of Extended Terms.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
(Sunshine Section)
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES. 664 27-39 George Street, West, Sydney; 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS; H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS (QLD.), LTD., Stanley Street, South Brisbane
A Windmill with a Guarantee
The Powerful
Billabong
Made in
Australia.
WWM
DANKS
£ J MELBOURNE* SYDNEY
UjfaA MAKERS OF
iuabong Windmills
« Pumps
- Troughs
■ Fujming
ETC FTC
' : ' tW ivl
**4
Mid
ULL
M: iWw
A"'//
Double-
Geared
Self-
Oiling
Ball-Bearing
Bedplate
Send for Our Windmill Catalogue and learn all about this Very Modern Wind-
mill, which is made in Our Own Factories and is backed up with Our
Guarantee.
The Catalogue is fully Illustrated and is Post Free on Request.
Bore Casing and Pipes and Fittings for Irrigation at Lowest Rates.
We make Centrifugal and other Power Pumps, all kinds of Hand Pumps,
Pumping Machinery and Pump Accessories.
fmnmiuiumn
lima
I JOHN
&SONI
nummmiiiimu
nmiiimuimc
pr*
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
, C.l.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Health is Your
Stand-by
When Everything Else Goes Wrong
Nothing is more important to you than a
healthy, vigorous body. When your health be-
gins to slip—when energy oozes out of you—
when your nerves crackle—then it’s good-bye
.to happiness. In comes discouragement, worry,
mental collapse—and failure! FAILURE IN
EVERYTHING!
Friend—are you 100% man? If sTou5 T ou are not,
well never mind blushing! Don’t waste time
being ashamed! There’s no need of STAYING
that way—because there is waiting for you a
FREE copy of the book that has caused a sen-
sation throughout the world.
&
&
N
■n
50
m
rn
r*
r
Get
YOUR
FREE
COPY
NOW!
This masterpiece
of literature will
show you how to
acquire dynamic
health, how to
add inches to
your neck, arms,
how to put
inches of steel
cables on your
chest. how to
get a mighty
back, how to de-
velop legs of a
giant and a grip
of steel.
Moulding men
and boys, weak
or strong, thin
or fat, into
mighty men, is
my business. I’ve
been doing it for
years. Press and
public proclaim
me the World’s
super-man o f
strength and Re-
creator of men,
and—but this won-
derful 84-page illus-
trated book tells the
"whole amazing
story. Get your copv
n o w—while IT IS
FREE. It's yours with
my compliments.
at
MON ATHAL.DO
Re-creator of Men
A
v v .
Mf'
./ $
S' Aa '
Don Athaldo, 64 Oxford St. Sydney, N.S.W.
I want the proof that you can make'me a New
Man, with a healthy, husky body and big
muscle development. Send me your free book,
“Health, Strength, and Muscular Power.” .1
enclose 6d in stamps for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS


fasgt
Outwears ordinary
working boots
The Abbey Cossack. . . double-
soled, with leather-lined upper.
Made of the toughest materials,
yet flexible, easy-fitting and
comfortable to wear. It is
built for the roughest service in
all weathers and carries the
Abbey guarantee of extra dur-
ability. This boot is carefully
finished and polishes well.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- and 407-
Black Box Calf 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: i
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 249
The Man who has revitalised thousands of
neurasthenic cases.
Self-Consciousness,
Nervousness,
Blushing
A. Startling New Book by a Former
Sufferer offered FREE to Every
Nervous Reader.
■yHERE is no greater obstacle to social and
business success than a nervous and shy
disposition. There is no human weakness so
humiliating and responsible for so much
secret misery and despair as this unfortunate
affliction. Nervousness deprives you of the
ability to reveal your real self, to develop
your talents and make headway in the
battle of life. Neither ambition, talent nor
hard work can achieve success when handi-
capped by nervous fears.
If you are a victim of this distressing
mental disorder, if you are nervous and shy,
if you blush and stammer when spoken to,
if you feel awkward and embarrassed in
company, if you are letting opportunities slip
by through being too nervous to step out of
the crowd and become a leader instead of
one of the led —here is a real chance to
conquer your weakness instead of letting it
conquer you—here is your chance to become
forceful and red-blooded!
FREE BOOK!
A remarkably interesting book explaining
how you can cure yourself privately at home,
as I did, will be sent in a plain sealed enve-
lope to all sufferers sending 4d. to cover cost
of postage. Write at once in confidence to
FREDERICK GRAY,
DESK 6, LOMBARD CHAMBERS,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MAIL NOW
Frederick Gray, Desk 6,
Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me, absolutely Free,
and without any obligation on my part
whatever, a copy of your book, “Nerve
Strength, Self-Consciousness and Personality.”
I enclose 4d. in stamps for postage.
Name
Address
7/10/’3I.
Mick Simmons
RIFLE
&
AND
(' \m yy w / .
SPECIALISTS
An Unrivalled Range!
SPORTING
RIFLES
. from the World's foremost
manufacturers !
No. 1- THE MAINE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt .action, fitted
with plain V back-sight; for short, long or
long-rifle cartridges. Round barrel, 18in.
long, bored and rifled with the same care
as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate; weight about 31b 22/0
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3j-
No. 2—T HE MAINE
SPECIAL BOLT
ACTION RIFLE, 22-cal..
take-down, with safety bolt. For short,
long or long-rifle cartridges; 21 in. round
barrel; weight about ....... 30/*
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 7-ST EVEN S' Jr.
S.S. RIFLE, 22-cal., take-down
system, 20in. steel barrel, open
sight; weight 2grlb ■
Postage, 1/6: Other States, 2/6
No. lO STEVEN S*
“ FAVORITE ” RIFLE,
22, 25 or 32 calibres, R.F. round 24in.
barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech-
block, takedown action, open front- and
sporting rear-sights; weight 4-|lb.. .52;-
Carriage Paid.
No. 11— STEVENS* BOLT
ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, 22-cal., magazine holds 14
short, 12 long, or 10 long-rifle cartridges
.—mixed or separate; 22in. round barrel,
slide action, ivory bead front- and ladder
rear-sights; weight 5/—
Carriage Paid.
No. 12 —WINCHESTER.
SINGLE-SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 60, for 22 short, long
or long-rifle rim-fire cartridges; 23in.
round steel barrel, one-piece pistol-grip
stock, bolt action, ladder rear- and gold
bead front-sight; weight about
4ilb &3l m
Postage, 2/-1 Other States, 3/6
No. 28 -REMINGTON
HAMMERLESS RE-
PEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 12A, 22-cal., solW
breech, side ejector, straight grip, 22-in.
round barrel; handles 15 short, 12 long
>r 1 1 long-rifle cartridges; adjustable
rear and open front-sights; weight
Hlb *5/15/-
Carriage Paid.
VALUE!
No. I—AMERICAN1 —AMERICAN
SINGLE BARREL
BREECH-LOADING
GUN, 410 G, top lever, Sie-
men’s steel barrel, 28in. solid, case-
hardened, rebounding lock;
weight about
55/-
Carriage Paid.
MR. LIONEL H. BIBBY
Mick Simmons’ Firearms and Ammunition
Expert, is at the service of Sportsmen on
any matter pertaining to Shooting.
New Shooting Price List post free on
request.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd.
72 0 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
( Transferred from Service Department.)
Is gypsum suitable as a fertiliser for
wheat ? —5975.
Experiments conducted by the JN.fe.w.
Agriculture Dept, indicate that it is prac-
tically of no value for wheat, its chief use
being as an application to heavy soils, by
which they are rendered more friable.
(1) At what stage in the growth of wheat
does frost destroy the grain? (2) Is the
damage done at the sweet knot, thereby pre-
venting the sap rising to the head, or does
it commence at the head f —5740.
The plant may be destroyed by frost at
any stage of growth, and various portions
of the plant are at times attacked. In most
cases the damage is done to the young de-
veloping wheat-flower, which is then unable
to fertilise and develop into grain. In other
instances, portions of the wheat-ear are
affected just as the heads are emerging from
the blade. The straw is sometimes attacked,
and in this case the plant tissues, particu-
larly near the joints in the stem, are killed.
When the straw is injured in this manner
the sap is prevented from rising, and the
straw ultimately dies.
(1) What are the possibilities of growing
the tung-tree in N.Q.? (2) Is there a
market in Australia? (3) Where can seeds
be obtained? (4) Books? —5706.
(1) and (2) No difficulty about growing
them, but there is no factory in Australia
for extraction of the oil, and the oil can
be imported from China pretty cheaply, (o)
From the superintendent, Q’land Acclimat-
isation Society’s Gardens, Lawnton (Q.) ; or
Otto Ivatzerstein and Co., Atlanta, Georgia,
U.S.A. (4) A pamphlet is issued by the
Technological Museum, Sydney, procurable
from the Government Printer, Is.
/ own a 450 -acre farm on which are a
house and all necessary buildings in which
a share-farmer lives. He is provided, with
milk, butter and firewood. I pay all taxes,
half-cartage and commission, and all feed
bills, and provide all animals and plant,
seed and manure. I also pay half pickers’
and diggers’ wages. What proportion of
the crop is it the usual practice for the
share-farmer to receive under such condi-
tions ? —5547.
With so much provided, it is usual for
share-farmers to take o'ne-third of a crop,
each paying the expenses, such as cartage,
commission, picking or digging, incidental
to their share.
(1) Any money to be made from breeding
Angora rabbits for sale in W.A. or for wool?
(2) Is there a steady market for the wool?
Where and at what price? (3) Capital
required to ensure a living? —-5779.
(1) Cannot recommend it, as the industry
is subject to severe price fluctuations. (2)
In England a t 7s. 6d. to 30s. per pound. But
18 months ago the wool was unsaleable. (3)
Depends partly on what you would have to
pay for stock. Angora rabbits for wooL
require a deal of looking after; it would
be difficult for one person to success-
fully attend to more than 300. The cost of
keeping a rabbit might be anything up to Bs.
per annum, and, seeing it will yield only
about Boz. and taking the average wool to
be second-grade at £1 per pound, the income
from wool would be 10s. Considerable out-
lay is necessary in starting. Fancy prices
are being asked for the stock, and hutches
and breeding pens are expensive.
What are the market requirements for pea-
nuts for (1) the roasting trade, and (2)
the, confectionery trade? —6o7l.
(1) These should be of the White China
type, of uniform size, with clean white
shells. They must be grown on light sandy
soils. (2) Peanuts of the White Spanish
type, with a high shelling percentage and
containing kernels of uniform size and a
high oil content, are required.
Hole to prune a Japanese plum-tree?—
6069.
If the trees are making strong growth,
-shorten the yearling laterals lightly. The
two-year-old laterals may be shortened, or
the yearling extension only removed. Any
laterals that have run bare of spurs should
be cut back to a dormant eye close to the
base. If such a bud is not present they should
be cut right out, care being taken not to
damage the ring at the junction with the
main limb.
In fertilising lemons, what manure should
be applied; quantities and time of year? —
6070.
A mixture of 6cwt. sulphate of ammonia,
3cwt. superphosphates, liewt. sulphate of
potash should be applied at the rate of
lib. for each year of the tree’s age. If peel
production is mainly aimed at, apply two-
thirds of the amount just before bud-burst
in spring, and the balance about Christmas.
Where the fruit is for the fresh-fruit market
or for storage, one-quarter of the mixture
should be applied just prior to bud-burst,
one-half about November, and the remain-
ing quarter about the end of January. 11
a green manure crop can be grown to pro-
vide organic matter, the super, could
be omitted from the mixture and applied
instead to the green crop, which should pre-
ferably be leguminous.
On the branches of my citrus trees are
thousands of small grey spiders, whose webs
curl the leaves and young fruit to the
branches. Kerosene emulsion, arsenate of
lead, Black-leaf 40 and another preparation
have failed to penetrate the web and move
them. Anything else that could be tried?- —
5494.
■ Spray with miscible white oil, used at
the rate of one part in forty parts of water,
and applied with a pressure of 1201 b. Where
practicable, the webs should be brushed off
before applying the spray.
(1) What type of soil and climate arc
suitable for the growth of the vineless sweet-
potato? (21 When should they be planted?
(3) Quantity of tubers necessary to plant
one acre? (4) How doon can they be har-
vested? (5) Aire fertilisers necessary? (6)
Any particular conditions regarding plant-
ing and cultivation? (7) Where to obtain
tubers? —5703.
(1) Sandy loam is most suitable, but this
crop will thrive in medium loams if the soil
temperatures are right. (2) During Oct.
apd Nov., when the cuttings are ready for
transplanting. (3) They are reproduced
from cuttings which are sent up from the
parent tuber. These cuttings are pulled oft
the tuber and set out individually. One
tuber is capable of producing 50 cuttings.
One hundredweight of tubers, if set correctly
in a bed, will produce sufficient cuttings to
plant an acre. (4) About 14 weeks, if
planted in late spring. (5) Equal parts of
bonedust and super, at 3cwt. p.a. (0) Land
should be in good condition, and the crop
kept free of grass and weeds. (7) From
S. Redgrove, Branxton (N.S.W.) ; or Yates
and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney.
(1) Time to plant Queensland nut-trees?
(2) Method of cultivation? (3) Position
and soil most suitable? —5771.
(1) Young trees during July or August,
and if the weather is showery from the
middle of January to March. (2) Keep
the land for a radius of about 5 feet around
the young tree during the first three or four
years from planting reasonably free from
weeds. (3) Position is immaterial, provided
it is not exposed to heavy winds nor severe
frosts. The soil must be deep, friable and
fertile for good results.
I have two turkeys with very enlarged and
distended crops. The birds appear healthy
but are not getting very fat. Cause and
cure? —5783.
The birds are suffering from distended and
sour crop, usually the result of not having
free access to water. Administer, twice
daily, half a teaspoon of carbonate of soda
dissolved in a little warm water. A dose of
Epsom salts should be given at intervals
of a couple of days, using a level teaspooh
just slightly damped, so that the bird can
be made to swallow it. The bird should be
fed sparingly on soft food for a few days.
If the subject does not respond to this treat-
ment in three or four days, it may be found
that the crop contains a ball of fibrous
material, in which case an operation may be
necessary. Make an incision in the crop
just large enough to remove the material
therein, after which the crop should be
washed out with a weak solution of perman-
ganate of potash. Crop and outer
skin should then be stitched up, and the bird
given soft food for a few days.
Are onions good for poultry, and, if so,
how should they be given to the birds?—-
5974.
An excellent feed, particularly for laying
hens and young cockerels when signs of
colds or catarrh are about. Price is the
only drawback. Onions may be fed raw,
chopped up, a few pounds to each 100 birds
daily; or can be boiled and incorporated in
the mash.
Do Black Minorca fowls eat more food
than other breeds? Any other reason why
these fowls, which lay very large eggs, are
not more popular? —s9o4.
They eat no more than any other breed.
The amount of food any fowl requires is in
accordance with its egg-laying capacity.
While Minorcas lay very large eggs, on an
average they do not lay as many as White
Leghorns.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dimon”: After the crop has been har-
vested, if there is no lucerne or other peren-
nials that might be damaged, let the pigs
have a run in the field. The run will do
them good, and there is generally a consider-
able quantity of spilled and missed grain,
besides other feed, that can thus be utilised.
Sheep or cows can also be profitably turned
on to the stubble.
“Marsh”: Here’s the quickest way to
teach a young horse to do justice to its
feed. Put an old ’un in the yard with the
young one and spread the feed out on a
sheet on the ground. The old horse feed-
ing will entice the younger one to eat, and
once started the rest is easy. Putting a
nosebag on a horse that has never eaten
feed before is waste of time.
“Beef-O”: A home-made preparation,
which may be usefully given to the poddies
in dry periods. Cracked corn and bran in a
like quantity are mixed with cold water and
then boiled ; two double handfuls to the kero-
sene-tin of water will suffice. Keep stir-
ring the mixture whilst boiling, and then mix
with skim milk and cold water. Half a
bucket to each calf twice a day is ample.
After a time, if the milk is wanted for the
pigs, the poddies will do well on just the
bran and corn liquid.
“Beady” : Farmers trucking fat sheep and
lambs often have difficulty in estimating how
many a truck will hold. A neighbor of
mine has built a yard the same length and
breadth as a truck. By filling it comfortably
with sheep before they start to market he
knows exactly what number to forward.
“Karaway”: The common practice is to
burn cornbusks and corncobs on a dump
near the barn. If they must be burnt it
is more profitable to cart them into the field
and get some good out of them by burning
them against a stump or on a patch in-
fested with a bad weed or grass. The ashes
alone return something to the soil.
“E. 11.5.” : A friend of. mine bought a
small property enclosed with a dilapidated
post- and two-rail fence, and planted poplar-
cuttings midway between the posts. About
five years later he scrapped the old fence
and replaced it with a sheep-proof barrier
by stapling six wires to the poplars. The
fastenings were on the right side of the first
support, and on the left of the second, and
so alternately throughout, thus saving the
cost of splitting, carting and erecting posts.
With an occasional adjustment this fence
will probably give a longer period of service
than the original.
“M.G,”: Touching tobacco-growing in
Queensland (B. 9/9/’3l). Thousands of
acres of Crown land are available as miners’
homesteads. A large number of such blocks
have been taken up in this district (Mt.
Garnet, via Cairns). Experimental plots
under Government supervision have proved
the suitability of the soil. The title is almost
as good as freehold ; the conditions are liberal.
“Barcoo Bill”: Tell “A.H.S.” (B.
16/9/’3l) the weight cut per sheep docs
matter. Labor costs for a srood sheep carry-
ing a heavy fleece are no -more than for a
bad sheep carrying a light one; and “A. 11.5.”
has at least some control over the price paid
per pound. If he produces the best wool he
will get the best price, and vice versa. And
all pastoral workers’ wages have been docked.
My own, compared with 1914, have been
docked about 75 per cent.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, N.S.W., wants job as jackeroo or
motor-driver or in any capacity.—6os7.
Hairdresser, returned soldier, wants position in
Q’land country town. —6053.
Sheep-station manager (38), married, one child,
open for engagement November. Eleven years’ exp.
Q.; seven years with N.S.W. stud. Kefs.—6ooo.
Needlewoman seeks daily employment, mending,
making, light washing, knitting silk scarfs, ties,
socks, etc. —5997.
Position in mine or works by metallurgical chemist
and assayer, Sydney, cert, driver gas, oil engines and
motors; understands steam engines, pumps.— s9B2.
Young man (26), Sydney, book-keeping and sales
exp., late manager of cordial factory, wants position
anywhere. Refs. —5980.
By man (22), position in Q’land as secretary or
manager of garage, or motor-accessories business.
Six years’ exp.—5965.
Elderly bachelor, literary and gardening tastes,
wishes to share offices and rooms, country town, with
another with similar tastes who can typewrite.—6o46.
To buy Brace Bairnsfatlier’s “Fragments from
France.”-—5950.
To buy Guptill’s “Pencil Drawing.”—s943.
To buy Nos. 1 and 13 “Modern Masterpieces of
British Art.” —5932.
To buy books on step- and tap-dancing and the
hornpipe.—s9l3.
To buy Belloc’s “Hills and the Sea” an|d “Path
ro R0me.”—6049.
To buy, David Burn’s “Plays and Fugitive Pieces,”
Harpur’s “The Bushrangers,” Gordon’s “The Feud,”
poems of William Blocksidge and Barron Field’s
“First Fruits of Australian Poetry.”—6o33.
To buy, “Guests of the Unspeakable,” by T. W.
White; “In Australian Tropics,” by Alfred Searcey;
“The Red Knight of Germany,” by Gibbous; and
“Pushing Water,” by “R.N.V.”—6020.
Information Sought.
What is the speed of England's fastest
(1) battleship , (2) battle-cruiser and (3)
cruiser? (4) What is the speed of the new
German pocket-battleship ? —5520.
(1) 25 knots, (2) 31.5 knots, (3) 33
knots. (4) Designed speed is 26 knots.
(1) Where in Australia does the tortoise-
shell tulip-tree grow? (2) What is the
appearance of the timber? (3) Is it suit-
able for interior panels? —s99B.
(1) Coastal districts of s. Queensland and
n. N.S.W. (2) In color it is a mixture of
pink and yellow, and it takes a high polish.
(j>) As the sap wood is liable to the attacks
of borers, only the heart-wood can be used
for cabinet work. It is suitable for panels
in railway and elevator cars, boxes,
cabinets, trays, etc.
(1) What is the length of the course to
qualify as an architect at Sydney Ifni. (2)
Does the Q’land junior certificate qualify
for entrance to the Uni.? (3) Cost of course'?
(4) Are there any openings for a lady
architect? (5) If indentured to an architect,
what is the premium? (6) How long do
indentures run? —s9o6.
(1) Five years. (2) No. Candidates
must pass the matriculation exam, in higher
English, another higher language, higher
mathematics and a fourth subject, prefer-
ably mechanics. (3) £195. (4) There are
few openings for architects—men or women
—at present. (5) and (6) Secretary Board
of Architects, N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment, will advise.
Is it a fact that a British colony planted
at. Roanoke Island by Sir Walter Raleigh
joined forces with a tribe of Indians, and
reproduce their Anglo-Saxon characteris-
tics in the same tribe to the present day? —
5967.
The facts are that 121 white colonists
were left on the island on July 22, 1587.
When the island was revisited in 1591 there
was no trace of the colony save the word
“Croatan” carved on a tree. There is now
in Robeson County in North Carolina, 200
miles inland from Roanoke Island, a mixed
people with Indian habits and occasional
English names who call themselves Croatans.
What is it costing Australia to maintain
unemployed, and how many are there? —
5682.
Payments out of unemployed relief funds,
1930-31: N.S.W. £4,357,000, Vie. (nine
months) £1.532,000. Q’land (estimated)
£141,700, S.A. (estimated) £841,000. West-
ern Australia (nine months} £329,000, Tas.
(nine months) £54,000. Estimates o'f the
total number of unemployed vary from
300,000 to 360,000; N.S.W. figures at the
end of July (State Labor Exchange esti-
mate), 125,000.
Has there been much inter-marrying be-
tween Maoris and white inhabitants of
Maoriland? Any figures dealing with the
subject?- —5970.
Such marriages were commoner in the early
days of settlement than they are to-day. The
1926 census showed that there were in the
Dominion 45,429 full-blooded ! Maoris (this
includes all persons of over seven-eighths
Maori blood), 6632 three-quarter castes,
1L609 half-castes and 6053 quarter-castes.
What qualifications and training are neces-
sary to enter the legal profession in Q’land ?
—5872.
You would, have to pass a preliminary
examination in English composition, arith-
metic, algebra, geometry, geography, Eng-
lish history, Latin and a modern language ;
become articled for five years; pass an
intermediate examination in the laws of
England and Constitutional law, and a final
examination embracing the laws of wrongs of
real and personal property a nd the practice
of conveyancing, also the practice of the
higher and lower courts, of insolvency, crimi-
nal law and its practice, and equity. The
fees would approximate 50 guineas.
(1) How can I remove the cement which
hold a< the glass envelope and the cap of a
wireless valve? (2) How can valves which
are loose in their caps be tightenedt (3)
How can I remove solder from the inside of
contact pins? —s9ss.
(.1) By soaking in methylated spirit.
(2) By soaking both cap and bulb in
spirit until the cement softens, when the
bulb may be pressed gently into position
and allowed to reset. It will be advisable
to drill a small hole in the base to drain
off the surplus spirit. The cement will take
several hours to soften. (3) Heat in a
clean flame and blow through with the
mouth at the opposite end of the cap. This
will also usually remove the fine wire leads.
Are the inter-State rates on parcels and
telegrams a breach of the Constitution? I
ask the question because, irrespective of dis-
tances, extra rates are charged if sender and.
receiver reside in different States? —ss2l.
No, because the charges apply equally to
all States. Under Clause 99 of the Federal
Constitution, “the Commonwealth shall not
by any law or i*egulation of trade, commerce
or revenue give preference to one State or
any part thereof over another State.” Prior
to Federation there was discrimination in
charges as between the States. The rates
were much higher all round, and higher still
between the more widely separated States.
(1) Where is the blubber situated in a
whale? (2) How is oil extracted from the
blubber? (3) How much oil could be ob-
tained from a whale 50 feet long? (4) Com-
mercial value of oil and (5) main uses ?<—-
5733.
(1) Immediately under the skin; it forms
a layer of an inch to a foot or more between
the skin and the internal organs. (2) The
blubber, after removal from the whale in
strips two or three feet wide, is cut up into
smaller strips about a foot wide, when it is
passed into a rotary chopping machine,
which further cuts it up into rashers. It is
then conveyed into a large boiler, where free
steam extracts the oil. When cooked for
six or seven hours, the oil is run off into
separators in which foreign matter is ex-
tracted. (3) 50 to 80 barrels. (4) The
present price per ton in Europe is about £25.
(5) Used chiefly in the manufacture of soap.
I wish to became a Bachelor of Engineer-
ing in mechanical and electrical engineering
at Sydney Uni. (1) Length of course? (2)
Total cost? (3) Must I matriculate? (4)
Is workshop experience essential to the secur-
ing of the degree? (5) From whom can I
get full particulars?— s9sB.
(1) Four years. (2) £IG7. (3) Yes.
(4) Before entering upon your fourth year
you will be required to present a certificate
showing that you have had six months’ nrac-
tical workshop experience in some approved
engineering works. (5) Registrar, Univer-
sity of Sydney.
What are the advantages of using an out-
put transformer in a broadcast receiver, and
how should the transformer be connected?
—5964.
Its use prevents damage to the loud-
speaker and improves reception. A loud
speaker which will not operate satisfactorily
when connected in the plate circuit of the
last amplifying valve will function per-
fectly when an output transformer is in-
stalled. Although the use of the instru-
ment causes a slight drop in the volume of
signals, the advantages outweigh this dis-
advantage. The primary of the transformer
should be connected with the speaker ter-
minals or jack of the receiver, and the
secondary to the speaker leads.
Are there any deposits of dolerite in
N.S.W.? What are its uses as a building
stone? —5962.
A large outcrop at Prospect, near Sydney,
has been extensively ouarried for use in the
construction of the Prospect dam. It is
favored for steps, as it does not wear smooth
nor take a high polish.
(1) Is it true that the Australian Gov-
ernment collects taxes from the natives in
Papua, and, if so, to what uses are the
taxes put? (2) Does the Government afford
any protection to deserted half-caste child-
ren? (3) What is done for the health of
the natives?-— 4563.
(1) Yes; under the Natives Ordinance,
passed in 1918, a tax not exceeding £1 may
be imposed on natives in Papua, excepting
native constables, mission teachers, natives
unfit for work and those who have not less
than four living children. The proceeds of
the tax must be expended on education or
devoted to other purposes directly benefiting
the natives. Receipts for the 1929-30 year
amounted to £16,524. (2) An ordinance was
passed in 1922 to provide for the care and
maintenance of neglected half-caste children.
£26 p.a. must be paid to the Commissioner for
Native Affairs by the adjudged, father of the
child until the child, if a boy, reaches the
age of 16 years, or, if a girl, 18 years. (3)
There are native hospitals at Port Moresby
and Samarai. Two travelling medical officers
and five European medical assistants are
employed. Two doctors and a number of
nurses are also employed by the mission
societies.
(1) Formula for calculating the natural
ivave-length of an oscillatory circuit* (2)
Natural wave-length of a tuned circuit con-
sisting of an inductance of 156 micro-henries
and a capacity of 0.0005 mici'o-farads? (3)
If the capacity were variable, how low a
wa-i'r-lrngth would the circuit tune down to 9
—5855.
(1) Multiply the inductance in micro-
henries by the capacity in micro-farads and
take the square root of the result, multiplv-
ing this number by 1885. (2) Tlio square
root of 156 * 0.0005 is 0.28; this number
multiplied by 1885 gives a wave-length of
527.8 metres. (3) Depends upon the mini-
mum capacity of the condenser; approxi-
mately 230 metres.
At what age should training of the voice
for singing he commenced? —sl96.
It should not be undertaken until the voice
is properly set. The age varies according
to circumstances. Many eminent authori-
ties are of opinion that the study of singing
should not be commenced before the age of
17; others incline to a somewhat earlier
age. The safe thing to do is to seek the
advice of an experienced teacher.
Where are pygmy flying opossums found
in Australia, and how can theu he identi-
fied? —5948.
They are plentiful in the bushlands of
N. S. Wales, Vic. and Q’land. The head
and body together are 3in. long, the tail
about the same; the body is covered with a
soft, silky fur, greyish-brown above, yellow-
ish-like below. The flying membrane is
fringed with long hairs. The tail is fringed
on each side with a row of strong hairs,
giving it a feather-like appearance; the
under side of the tip is naked.
(1) Name of hird, size between magpie
and crow, black with a little white on tail
and underwing, eye usually red, known in
m y district as storm-hird or New England
magpie? (2) Name of hird, size a little
higger than a butcher-hird, longer and more
slender, brown with black speckles, and
scarlet diamond-shaped color on hack of head.
It imitates the fox and cat well, and builds
a bower or playground. Called a bower-bird
locally. If this is correct, what is the mock-
ing-bird?—sSOO.
(1) White-winged chough, sometimes
called black magpie; scientific name Corcorax
melanorliamphus. (2) Spotted bower-bird,
Chlamydera maculata. It is known in many
parts as the mocking-bird.
(1) Which Australian bird has the swift-
est flight and what is its speed? (2) What
is the speed of the homing-pigeon and other
fast fliers? (3) The name of the diminu-
tive green parrot which flies in mobs over
the tops of the gum-tree? —s639.
(1) Can’t say. No experiments have been
carried out in Australia regarding the air-
speed of birds. (2) Authentic records for
a perfectly still day show that homing-
pigeons average about 34 m.p.h.; quail, 57
m.p.h.; ducks, 47 m.p.h.; starlings, 46 m.p.h.
In a following wind homing-pigeons have
averaged 71 m.ji.h. over a course of 82 miles,
while individual birds have been very
much faster. Swallows and swifts have
been timed at 106 m.p.h., but wind
was strong. As a rule the swallow family
can be regarded as the fastest birds,
and they are built essentially for speed.
Hawks, more particularly falcons, are ex-
tremely _ swift in the air and can outstrip
most pigeons, many of the latter falling
victims to falcons during pigeon races. (3)
The swift parrakeet. Its small size leads to
over-estimates of its speed.
I wish to\ store my Ford (model A) car?
Any hints regarding storage?. —s93s.
Store in a dry place. Drain the radiator,
then. put in about a quart of anti-freeze
solution. Drain the old oil from the oil-
pan. Refill the oil-pan with a gallon of
fresh oil and run the engine enough to cover
the different parts with oil. Draw off all
petrol. The wheels should be jacked up to
take the load off the tyres. If the car is laid
up for several months, it is best to remove
the tyres. Wrap up the outer casings and
inner tubes separately, and store them in a
dark room not exposed to extreme tempera-
tures. Remove oil or grease from the tyres
with petrol. Remove battery and place in
storage, preferably with a reliable service
station. Wash the car and cover the body.
(1) What is the difference between a bar-
rister and a solicitor, and between a barrister
and a K.C.? (2) Can a barrister sue for
expenses the same as a solicitor?. —sB3s.
(1) The barrister is the advocate and
the adviser upon the law; the solicitor pre-
pares cases for submission to him and draws
up the brief on which he goes into court;
with the solicitor rests also what may be called
the business side of the law. In some States,
though not in N. S. Wales, legal practitioners
may act in either capacity. Nowadays prac-
tically all barristers who have seen long
service at the Bar may on application be
appointed King’s Counsel. It is not neces-
sarily a mark of outstanding legal ability.
(2) No. I-Ie looks for his fees to the soli-
citor who briefs him.
I am running a small motor-transport busi-
ness. In such a business what constitutes
(1) standing charges and (2) running
costs? —s937.
(1) All charges calculated on an annual
basis, whether the vehicle is in continuous
use or not. Principal items under this head-
ing are interest on capital, cost of the
vehicle, depreciation (usually calculated on
basis of estimated life, less tyres), insurance,
proportion of overhead costs, administrative
and other expenses, license, registration fee
or other vehicle tax, and drivers’ wages. (2)
The running costs are those incurred whilst
the vehicle is actually running, and increase
or decrease according to the mileage. They
include fuel, lubricants, tyres, repairs, main-
tenance and overhaul.
(1) Why is it that the man who fishes
from the stern of an anchored boat in a
stream always catches the most fish? (2)
As it is not fishing etiquette for a first
arrival to change his position when a new-
comer anchors below him, how can he cir-
cumvent the newco\mer? (3) How to tether
fish in a stream? —5945.
(1) The reason is that the stern is “down
stream” in relation to current or tide, and
that, as the fish are headed against the
current, the bait is first presented to them
at the stern. (2) Where tidal currents are
strong, attach a lengthy “dropper” (from
5 to 50 yards) above a heavy lead. Length
and weight must depend on circumstances.
If a rival boat is close astern whole lines
are sometimes used as droppers, in order that
the bait may travel down below the other
boat. (3) Pass a line through the nose of
the fish, slitting the cartilage if necessary
Do not tether through the gills. Allow a
fair length of line —a separate piece for each
fish. Tethering should be resorted to onlv
in a mild current.
Brief Answers.
A.R.: (1) Not in the case of a normal
individual. (2) and (3) Don’t know what game
you are referring to, but it certainly isn’t coon can.
. ...W.E.K.: Regulations are out of print. Apply
Chairman, Board of Examiners, Box 166 C, G.P.0.,
Brisbane... .W.J.A.: The Premier of N.S.W. now
gets £lBOO p.a.; the Attorney-General, £1564 p.a. :
the Vice-President of the Executive Council, £1072 ;
and the remaining nine Ministers, £1463 R.P.L.:
Symptoms point to malnutrition. Give a supple-
mentary ration such as whole maize and linseed nuts
for two or three months prior to lambing, feeding
maize one day and nuts the next, at the rate of about
2oz. per head per day. Withdraw the salt lick or add
an equal quantity of finely-ground Nauru phosphate to
the salt. Keep it protected from the rain. .. .G.C.:
Write Secretary, Prime Minister’s Dept., Canberra,
F.C.T J.M.P.: (l) Paul R. Reynolds, 599 Fifth-
avenue, New York. (2) From 10 to 15 p.c
J.H.S.: See page 1229, “The Statesman’s Year-Book,
1931,” any public library L.G.: According to a
survey taken by the N.S.W. Lands Dept, in 1926,
the length of the Murray River is 1609 miles; the
Darling, 1702 miles; the Murrumbidgee, 981 miles;
and the Lachlan, 922 miles... .C.C.: (1) A Q’land
pharmacy apprentice could not sit for the N.S.W.
final pharmacy exam. A full course of study would
have to be undertaken first in N.S.W. (2) Write
Pharmacy Board of N.S.W., 7 Richmond-terraee,
Sydney; and Q’land Pharmacy Board, William and
Alice streets, Brisbane J.W.C.: Write to Ferguson
Hall, 57 Hunter-street, Sydney. C.M.L.: (1) A
mackerel sky is so called because of its resemblance
to the markings on the back of a mackerel fish.
Never heard of a mackerel wind. (.2) Yes.
. ...L.D.: Write Fisheries Branch, Chief Secre-
tary’s Dept., Sydney, for leaflet, “The Smoking
and Salting of Fish” W.P.: Write Director, School
of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Department
of Health, Canberra, F.C.T W.M.: The coin is
an English half-crown of George 111., worth 3s. 6d.
if in mint condition; otherwise face value... .T.G.:
You are not eligible for a license to keep Chin-
chilla rabbits... ,J. 8.: The serial has not yet been
published in book form J.Y.8.: (1) 9537.5
gallons. (2) It would empty itself in 15min.
57see T.H.U.: In 1914 the population of Broken
Hill was over 35,000; in 1929 it was 24,000. Pop.
of Cessnock is 14,000 A.H.11.R.: It would be
foolish to go there unless you obtained a position
beforehand... .C. 8.: Proposals have been made for the
evacuation of the residents of Tristan da Cunha
but they object... .F.H.: Write Yates and Co.,
184 Sussex-street, Sydney. .. .11.J.5.: Write John
Clark, Ltd., engineers, Kimber-lane, Glebe, Sydney.
. ...T.T.: Clean the plate and dry with a silk
duster. For lacquer, dissolve white shellac in methy-
lated spirits to make a mixture like thin paste; it
takes a day or two to dissolve.... J.P.8.: Lay suit or.
table, brush it with a hard clothes-brush and sponge
with petrol; hang in the open to dry. If very
dirty, dip the whole garment in a gallon or two of
petrol, moving it up and down until clean, then
hang out to drain and dry without wringing. Petrol
may be used for very delicate fabrics W.G.: (1)
His Grace the Lord Archbishop of Canterbury; com-
mence “Your Grace.” (2) His Holiness the Pope;
“Your Holiness.” (3) The Rt. Rev. the Lord Bishop
of ; “My Lord.” (4) The Rev. J. Brown:
“Sir.” (5) The Lord Mayor of Sydney; “Sir.” (6)
Consult a “Peerage” D.S.: (1) Know of none in
N.S.W. Try Sec. Fruitgrowers’ Assoc., Coff’s Harbor,
or Fruitgrowers’ Co., Tweed Heads. (2) On an aver-
age, 10 dozen... .D.F.F.: (1) In practice no calcu-
lations are necessary. Tables of sines of all angles
are obtainable. (2) A point on an arc passing through
the zenith and the horizon. (3) The actual shortest
route is plotted, represented by a curve on an ordinary
ocean chart, and by a straight line on a chart on
Mercator’s projection.... E.C.T.: Good Friday falls
on April 3 several times in a century. The Anglican
Prayer Book contains tables from which the date
of Easter in any year may be computed... .W.M.D.:
She was a character in an American negro song.
. ...V.M.: Give it several coats of black car hood
dressing. Scrape the old varnish off before' applying
new... .G.L.0.: Inform him you’ll sue if he doesn’t
pay up within a week N.W.K.: Difficult to say,
for practical experiments are exceedingly. rare. It is
certain, however, that the effect would be harmful if
the excess was very much.... J.L.J.: It is very un-
likely there would be any family... .A. J.H.: (1)
The preparation cannot be substituted in the way
you suggest. (2) Strongly, advise you not to. .. .
H.P.S.: (1) Four: Ned and Dan Kelly, Steve
Hart and Joe Byrne. (2) Euroa (Vic.) and
Jerilderie (N.S.W.) were the scenes of their
biggest bank raids. (3) No. (4) Ned alone
was captured alive, at Glenrowan, on June
29, 1880, his partners dying in the burning
hotel.. . .P.A.: (1) Municipal councils exercise their
own discretion in effecting retrenchments and econo-
mies. (2) Information regarding salaries paid to
officials could best be obtained by an alderman
moving that a return should be tabled in open
council... .E.D.: Try Keene’s cement. Make a piece
mould in plaster and a “mother’’ mould to cover
that. Shellac them both on the inside, and if you
are careful it should be possible to cast any number.
... .A.C.D.C.: The last edition was published in
1929. Angus and Robertson, Sydney, could
get you a copy W.J.T.: Y r ou have no
claim in law against the estate, nor would a
claim against her individually for maintenance over
past years, apparently a voluntary act, stand much
prospect of success... .J.T.: Recruiting for the foot
branch of the N.S.W. Police Force lias been tempo-
rarily discontinued... .A.P.: The cheapest price at
which quicksilver can be procured retail in Brisbane
is 10s. per pound. Queensland Machinery Go.,
Taylor and Elliott, or A. Victor Leggo and. Co. could
supply R.C.C.: Write Dept, of Transport, Can-
berra... .B.IL : (1) Joseph Hergesheimer’s address
is the Dower House, West Chester, Penn., U.S.A.
(2) Yes. All the old-time big-game guns were
smoothbores. Most of them, like the famous. Boer
“roiers,” took a 4oz. bullet, with a corresponding
charge of powder. (3) See “Whitaker’s Peerage,”
any public library... .J.C.: It is not a practicable
proposition... .M.D.: If in mint condition it is
worth £1 55.; otherwise, only the gold value of the
coin... .M.K.: Write Basement Bookshop, 725
George-street, Sydney E.D.: (1) Melba died
February 23. (2) Spain was declared a
republic April 14. (3) Chichester flew from
M.L. to Norfolk Island March, 29, all 1931....
M.D.S.: Can’t recommend any particular teacher.
Get in touch with the Registrar, Conservatorium of
Music, Sydney... .J.W.R.: (1) One pound arsenic
should be sufficient. (2) Yes... .M.C.: No efficient
trap has been devised. Shooting and poisoning
are usually resorted to for the destruction of
wallabies... .F.M.: Write L. Roberts, Oxley
Sailing Club, Brisbane W.S.C.: There has
been a general reduction of salaries and wages in
M.L. to the extent of 10 per cent, in recent months.
L.W.: Hang the fish up in i-egular rows in the
smoke-house and in one, two or three tiers, accord-
ing to the capacity of the smoke-house, but with
the tails not nearer to the smoke-producing material
than about Bft. or 9ft., so as to ensure a cool
smoke. Smoke for about 12 hours—more or less,
as desired, and, as in the salting, according to the
taste of the market.... (Many others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G. M. Turnbull
Synopsis : Jim Huntley, Resident
Magistrate at Aikoroa, Papua, return-
ing to his post after sick leave,
it as for a fellow-passenger Marian
Durrant, whom he had known as a
small child. She had been brought up
"down south,” and is now paying a
surprise visit to her father. Another
voyager is Rreddie Chisholm, going to
Huntley's division as assistant. Hunt-
ley, who has fallen in love with the
girl, is alarmed. Always Charlie
Durrant had put his daughter off
coming to Aikoroa, where he, too, lived
and had his plantation (Nataroa).
The R.M. is secretly relieved when,
arriving at Baramata, he finds that the
Maipua is laid up, and that Marian
cannot go on to Nataroa for ten days
at least. He arranges for her to stay
with Marchmont, another R.M., and his
wife. While Huntley is at the port a
man named Calvert, whom he dislikes,
tries to get an interview with Marian;
hut Huntley repulses him.
CHAPTER V ( Continued ).
JIM is glad, really, that the Maipua has
gone ‘phut,’ ” Marian announced sud-
denly. “He is as pleased as he can be
because my surprise party has fallen flat.
He didn’t think it was quite fair—my
descending upon daddy like a bolt from the
blue, I mean. All along he has been quite
sniffy about it.”
Mrs. Marchmont was suddenly alert.
‘How do you know he is glad, child? Has
he said so?”
Marian shook her shingled head vigor-
ously. '“Of course he hasn’t. Jim isn’t like
that,” she nodded wisely. “But I know he’s
iolly pleased about it, just the same.”
“Jim has been a sick man, dear,” Mrs.
Marchmont replied. “Perhaps he is still a
little jumpy, nervy. Besides, in New Guinea
it is always the unexpected that happens,
and Jim, like all other white men, hates
the unexpected—in his own life and the
other fellow’s.”
“It would have been such a lark,” Marian
sighed. “All through the voyage I’ve been
cherishing a mental picture of poor old
daddy, sitting on the verandah at Nataroa
all stiff and starched and uncomfortable,
waiting to receive visitors from the Maipua.
And now”—she made a move —“I feel that
the Maipua and her silly old propeller have
cheated me.”
Jane Marchmont averted her head as
though there was something in her eyes she
wished to hide.
“But, my dear,” she replied, “you’re quite
reconciled now to staying here with us until
Captain Fuller gets his ship out of dock?”
“I’m being thoughtless and beastly,”
Marian told he: impulsively. “I don’t
deserve your kindness. I ought to be
ashamed of myself—and I am.;. Please for-
give me.”
Looking up, Huntley, who had been
gazing straight before him, caught her final
words..
“Dear lady,” he drawled to Mrs. March-
mont, “we’re doing the child’s father a good
turn by leaving her in your managing hands
for a while. She needs a firm hand, a tight
rein, discipline and no nonsense.”
“There are times, Jim,” Marian retorted,
mischief in her eyes and voice, “when you
are most fearfully stuffy and prehistoric.”
Marchmont was watching the smoke
wreaths that curled from the excellent cigar
he was smoking.
“If I may suggest it,” he remarked, “it’s
time you fellows were making tracks, if you
don’t want to spend to-morrow night grop-
ing in the dark for an anchorage.” He
cocked a weather-wise eye at the star-
sprinkled vault above. “You’ll have fair
weather, I fancy. You’re in luck. The
Namodia does everything except stand on
her head in a seaway. Good sailor, Chis-
holm?”
“The world’s worst, sir,” Chisholm
answered ruefully. “In fact, I’m not a
sailor at all. I’m a sort of moaning vehicle
for repeated bilious attacks.”
Marian laughed. “Do you remember
your first day out from Sydney, Freddie?”
Chisholm squirmed. “‘Beef tea!’” Marian
mimicked maliciously. “ ‘Ugh! Take it
away. Wanna bucketful of something fizzy
—with ice in it.’”
“Don’t pile it on, old thing,” Chisholm
shudderingly retorted. “Glad I amused you,
though. Been finding it darned difficult of
late.”
“Your opportunity will come at Aikoroa,
Mr. Chisholm,” Mrs. Marchmont told him.
“Marian’s home—Nataroa—is only an hour’s
walk from the station. In New Guinea that
is next door.”
A light twinkled in Marian’s eye. “I
hope you will be amusing, Freddie,” she
said. “And, perhaps, even exciting.”
“Happy young people!” Huntley jeered.
“Amusing! Exciting! What is it? A
jazz picnic?”
Marian put out a hand and ruffled his
hair where it was beginning to recede from
the forehead. “You are stuffy, you know,
Jim,” she whispered softly.
Silence fell. There sounded faintly the
clank of steam winches, the scream of
truck axles in ungreased bearings, the voices
of white men, and the shrill responses of
natives. When ships tie up to Papuan
wharves there is no eight-hour day. There
was a sound of native voices from the
house-boys’ quarters, and, close at hand, a
solitary night-bird gave a sudden, blood-
curdling cry.
Abruptly Huntley pushed back his chair.
“What about it, Chisholm?” he said. He
turned to Marian. “You were to give me
a letter for the dad. Our host is right. We
must get a move on.”
Marchmont blew a smoke ring into the
still air, then considered the smouldering
tip of his cigar. Marian had moved to
Huntley’s side.
“I hate to hustle you fellows away,”
Marchmont remarked, “but if you want any
sleep at all to-night, I suggest you push
off.”
There was a curious hesitation about
Marian’s manner, a constrained self-
consciousness, as she slipped a bulky enve-
lope into Huntley’s breast pocket. Idly
she toyed with the button that secured the
flap. Huntley was aware of Mrs. March-
mont, of a momentary glimpse of something
shrewd, appraising in her eyes, of an odd
lifting of the eyebrows.
Marian laughed—softly at first, then a
little shakily.
“Don’t wince so and get all flustered up,
dear old boy,” she teased. “I am not
going to do anything outrageous.” Her
nimble fingers straightened his tie, tugged
at the bulging lapels of his coat, patted
him lightly on the cheek. “Good-bye,
Jim,” she smiled. She rubbed her cheek
against his coat sleeve. “All my love to
daddy, and give him a good report of me.”
She wound an arm round Mrs. March-
mont’s waist as they moved to the head of
the steps.
Fireflies were flickering in the shrubbery,
an occasional mosquito whined. A little
puff of wind shook down a flesh-pink shower
of bauhinia blossoms that fluttered about
their feet. Far off, a drum throbbed faintly.
They were shaking hands, bowing, mur-
muring conventional farewells. Marchmont
cleared his throat.
“Good trip, Jim. Take care of your-
self. ’Night Chisholm.” There was a per-
ceptible pause. “Remember us both to
Dm’rant, Jim.”
As Huntley and his companion walked
with cautious steps along the rickety jetty
where the Namodia was berthed, Chisholm,
who had been very quiet, made an un-
expected remark.
“I say, R.M., who is the chee-chee laddie
who was eyeing Miss Durrant off at lunch?”
Huntley gave a slight start. In the star-
shine his face was merely a blur, his features
invisible.
“What d’you know about chee-chees?”
he countered. “Where the deuce did you
get hold of that term, Chisholm?”
Chisholm grunted. “My pater,” he
answered, “is by way of being a big gun in
Malay tin. I was born at Singapore with
—let me say—an unerring instinct for the
tar-brush.”
Huntley whistled. He was looking at
Chisholm with a totally new interest.
“Great Scott!”.he muttered. “‘Tin’Chis-
holm, the Chisholm, is your father?”
Chisholm nodded.
“I’ll be damned!” Huntley said. He
looked steadily at Chisholm before he con-
tinued. Then: “Your instinct for the tar-
brush has led you astray this time, son.”
Chisholm’s face betrayed uneasiness. His
ears began to bum. He felt suddenly
foolish.
“Good Lord!” he began. “Am I being
the champion ass again, R.M.? If the
bloke I’m referring to is a pal of yours,
I’m most frightfully sorry. I didn’t”
Huntley cut him short with a laugh.
“Mr. Roger Calvert is no pal of mine,
Chisholm,” he said with great heartiness.
“Very definitely not. At the same time it
is not wise to”—he paused meaningly—
“discuss things that are best ignored.
Savee?”
“I take you,” Chisholm assented. He was
manifestly relieved. “Spotted the beggar
on the instant, though. Insolent sweep!
Makes a fellow’s toe itch to see him giving
a girl like Miss Durrant the once-over.”
“Forget it, Chisholm,” Huntley said
sharply. “Calvert admits to Levantine
forebears in his ancestral tree. And who
are we to”
“Levantine my eye!” Chisholm cut in.
“But have it your own way, old son.”
And so they came to the Namodia.
CHAPTER VI.
Sergeant Gibara was a Kiwai by race, a
fighter by instinct and a sportsman by dis-
position. In the old days he would have
led desperate forays against the Tugeri—
those gi’im and murderous freebooters of
the west whose history was a constant alter-
nation of swift and bloody raids upon the
Fly River littoral—and swifter retreats to
their sketchily-neutral strongholds beyond
the Dutch border. Many heads, appropri-
ately labelled, would have decorated
Gibara’s cubicle in the long-house, many
wives would have called him lord. His
bamboo bow would have been the stoutest,
his diorite club the heaviest, his hunting
dogs the fleetest and his pigs the fattest
in all the Fly River country. He would
have lived dangerously and died gloriously,
and at the end the halls of his Kiwai Val-
halla would have opened wide their doors
as the throbbing war-drums speeded him
home.
But the old order was passing ere Gibara
graduated to the long-house. When he
came to manhood it was already a memory.
There was but one outlet in the new New
Guinea for a high-spirited young buck of
Gibara’s ancestry and environment; but
one channel into which the totally incom-
prehensible “Gavamani” would permit him
—nay, encourage him—to divert his peculiar
talents.
Gibara was of the warrior clan. There-
fore it was inevitable that he should drift
into the ranks of the Papuan Armed Con-
stabulary.
The Daru magistrate attested him and
sent him to Port Moresby. There he was
delivered into the hands of a very big,
very red-faced white man with a bitter
tongue, who taught him many things. The
stripling Gibara went into barracks a fight-
ing man; within a month ex-Sergeant-major
O’Riordan, late of the Connaught Rangers,
aided and abetted by a staff of native non-
coms., imposed upon him the status and
prestige attached to a mongrel village dog.
A thousand strange things happened to
Gibara, and life was very strange.
But Gibara was game. He learned to be
blind in his eyes, deaf in his ears and dumb
with the savage tongue' his fighting fore-
bears had given him when, daily, the com-
mandant of police sweated the soul out of
his body and the pride out of his man-
hood on the sun-scarred parade ground.
Gradually his chest muscles began to bulge,
and muscles, the existence of which he had
not known, began to stretch and ache and
then grow hard; his native slouch became a
springing stride, his backbone a steel spring,
his powerful arms mechanical pistons. He
acquired a love of soap for its own sake, a
reverence for “spit and polish” for what
they could do for tarnished brass equipment,
a detestation of “New Guinea fashions” for
what slovens they made of fighting men.
In time the expression of pained disgust
Vanished from the commandant’s face
when his eye lighted upon Gibara. In time
the corporals’ references to his tree-toad
ancestry became less pointed. Gibara’s
heart began once more to swell within him;
once more he recaptured the primitive urge
that had sent him from his village into
the ranks. He began to take pleasure in
the incomprehensible, body-sweating drill,
the bone-wearying route marches; the
stomach-turning fatigues and the soul-
shocking ordeal of the rifle-range. More-
over, there were other recruits of a lower
order of seniority than he whom he was
permitted to treat with the kindly and rather
contemptuous toleration of a veteran to-
wards unsophisticated bushmen.
Gibara achieved a swagger.
There came a day when he was summoned
to the Commandant’s office; a blissful day
when, attired in a brave red-braided, blue
serge sulu and jumper, a wide, scarlet sash
around his waist, a long bayonet smacking
against his thigh, carbine at the slope and a
brass-studded bandolier across his shoulders,
he was given his marching orders.
“Ye’ll be goin’ to the Delta, Gibara,”
O’Riordan, who disdained the “bat,” told
him. “Remimber to trate the Gov’ment—
bad cess to ut-—wid awe and riverence; your
shuperior officers wid the same, and sweet
Jasus help ye, me b’y, if ye forgit annything
I’ve learned ye, because t-him murderin’
Delta man-atin’ divils’ll be after makin’ a
meal off ye. Dismiss!”
Gibara’s heels came together, his right
hand came smartly to the breech of his car-
bine, he wheeled and marched back to the
barracks.
Followed fifteen years packed with patrol-
ling—that in any other country would be
campaigning—from Mamba Beach to the
Dutch border; among the reeking swamps of
the West, the fairy islands of the East and
on the roof 4 of New Guinea ; fifteen years
of adventure and privation that put lines on
Gibara’s face and scars on his body, yet
had not stooped his mighty shoulders nor
dimmed the fire of his fierce eyes. A Kuku-
kuku bone-tipped arrow had siiicked the
lobe from his right ear, a Chirima black-
palm. spear had gouged his thigh, a Sam-
berigi quartz-club had given him a patch
on his skull that would never grow hair
again.
He had seen many a smart young white
man join the magistracy and end in a
beachcomber’s shanty; many a fledgling
patrol-officer attain the dignity of a divi-
sion; many a magistrate become a person
oi tonnage in official circles at Port
Moresby. A single stripe had been stitched
to the sleeve of his jumper; then, after
many arduous years, the twin chevrons of
a full corporal. Now men feared him,
women desired him; little girls fled at his
approach, small boys tremblingly stood
their ground, gazing at him with awe. He
was a man of influence, of substance, of
authority—envied, courted, admired. He
was Sergeant Gibara of the Armed Native
Constabulary.
And to Sergeant Gibara Jim Huntley was
as the salt of the earth.
To-day the sergeant was ill at ease. His
normally expressionless brown mask of a
face was contorted by a heavy frown.
Every now and then he would tiptoe across
the office verandah to the window, peep
within at the white man seated at the table,
and take up his stand again at the _ head
of the steps, frowning, shaking his grizzled
head.
An unprecedented situation had arisen in
Aikoroa Bay. The villages were an strike.
Truculent and overbearing when, they could
be with impunity, cringing and servile when
threatened with the might of the “Gava-
mani,” the people, taking advantage of
Huntley’s absence, had got completely out
of hand. From the elders of Aikoroa—the
Big Village—the decree had gone forth that
henceforth the annual poll-tax would not be
paid by the Aikoroa people.
Here, Sergeant Gibara admitted, was a
dilemma that would test the ingenuity even
of Mis’ Huntley; a problem even that
superman among magistrates might well
find insoluble. As for Mis’ Boardman,, the
harassed young man from Port _ Moresby
temporarily in charge of the division—the
sergeant’s frown became a scowl—here was
no job for soft words and softer hands; no
job for a “small fella Gavamani,” a man. of
the pen, such as Mis’ Boardman.
Within the office a very worried young
man in rumpled drill sat at the table. He
was fair-haired, smooth-cheeked, and from
behind shell-rimmed spectacles a pair of
eternally puzzled weak eyes looked out
upon a world that was eternally unfriendly.
Mr. Boardman, acting R.M., was in a
thoroughly exasperated frame of mind. It
struck him as damnably unfair that these
swines of niggers should have selected just
this time to kick over the traces; damnably
unfair that his short but moderately success-
ful administration of a notoriously difficult
division should be marred by an event so
incredibly fantastic as a general strike.
He felt that, at the very outset of his
official career, fate had played upon him an
extremely scurvy trick.
He glanced up at the cheap alarm-clock.
Ten o’clock. Fuming inwardly, he tapped
irritably upon the table top.
“Sergeant!” he called out. “These people
no come yet?”
“They no come, sah,” Gibara answered
sorrowfully. He came to the window and
gave a deferential cough. “I t’ink these
Aikoroa people no want to come talk ’long
you, sah.”
“I know all about that,” the white man
snapped. “You needn’t rub it in, you stupid
black, fool!”
He ran his fingers through his hair. He
felt soberly convinced that, in inviting the
ringleaders of the recalcitrant tribesmen to
meet him at the Government station and
talk things over in friendly fashion he had
shown a fine spirit, a magnanimous spirit,
a spirit that could not fail to win the hearty
approval of the right-minded people in the
community. And they had answered him
neither “yea” nor “nay.” They had merely
ignored him.
Mr. Boardman realised that he was hard
and fast upon a snag of the very first magni-
tude. A feeble anger stirred within him.
There was no use blinking facts; he had
fallen down on the job, crashed badly. He
did not possess, nor would he ever acquire,
the sixth sense that makes “White Man’s
rule” possible—the knack of handling
niggers.
He was aware that Sergeant Gibara was
coughing with a vehemence that no obstruc-
tion in his throat could possibly justify.
The fellow was trying to attract his atten-
tion.
“What’s up?” he inquired sourly.
Gibara pointed to the open sea. “One
fella lannis [launch] stop outside ’long reef.
Taubada,” he exclaimed. In his excitement
he did something quite unwarrantably
familiar. He vaulted through the open
window, and took Boardman by the arm.
“By God, sah!” he growled. “That fella
lannis is the Baramata Gavamani lannis. I
t’ink mebbe Mis’ Huntley bin come back,
hey?”
There was a look of hauteur on Mr.
Boardman’s face as, forcibly, he shook off
the sergeant’s hand. Nevertheless, the
depression that had darkened his soul was
already lifting, as the cough of an exhaust,
faint but unmistakable, came to his ears.
It was with difficulty that he restrained an
impulse to execute a few jubilant dance
steps on the verandah; the desire to
thump Sergeant Gibara heartily upon
the back was overpowering. He thought
of his comfortable office at Port Mores-
by; of the electric fan that purred
so softly; the sleek, suave orderly who
awaited his pleasure at the end of a bell-
push. High hopes raced through his brain as
he watched the trim little craft heading for
the passage in the reef. Perhaps she was
the Namodia; perhaps one of the two khaki-
clad figures reclining in the cockpit was
Huntley; perhaps it might be soon, perhaps
to-day, he would bid a final farewell to the


Lumbago
DON’T LINGER ON IN
PAIN AND SUFFERING!
“Oh! oh! my back—it’s nearly breaking. I can t get
straight again once I stoop down. It seems just as though
an iron hand is gripping me, wrenching the muscles, making
me just sick with pain“ ....
How many thousands of men and women, victims of
torturing lumbago, could repeat these words? How many
have come to the brink of breakdown by chronic symptoms
that actually reveal deep-seated kidney trouble?
POISONS IN YOUR BLOOD ARE
CAUSING YOUR SUFFERING
It is vitally important that you should realise the fact that
the pain you suffer is caused by poisons in the blood, for then
you will know that the only rational method of ending your
trouble is to prompt the kidneys to their natural work of
keeping the blood free from pain-giving impurities.
Thousands of one-time sufferers, now restored to health,
will tell you there is no surer, safer, more certain and inex-
pensive remedy for lumbago, chronic backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, bladder trouble and all the sure signs of kidney
trouble, than De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Where all
other remedies fail, in cases where men and women have been
bed-ridden, or perhaps have suffered—not weeks, but years—
De Witt’s Pills have banished the old pain and restored health.
\\W\WM \\ \\ \\ \li 11 1 ill/ / / Z///Z// / As?y<Q'^ .
De WITTS
fasgt
THIS REMEDY
BEARS A DEFINITE
GUARANTEE
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills carry a very definite guar-
antee to show results in 24 hours
from the very first dose. The
color of the urine tells you these
strength-restoring pills are acting
directly on the kidneys. But be
sure you obtain the genuine
remedy. Don’t be misled by any
imitation or substitute —see the
name clearly on the package.
When you have the true De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
cost but 3/6 per box, you may be
assured you have really started on
the road to permanent health and
strength. Ask your chemist how
good they are.
TERRIBLE PAINS IN BACK
RELIEVED.
Mr. W. Monagham, Second
Avenue, Campsie (N.S.W.), says :
“Owing to working in the damp
basement of building, I was
troubled with terrible pains in my
back, and could not stand straight.
A friend recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and
one bottle was sufficient to relieve
me. I have never had any return
of my trouble since.’
Mr. W T . H. Curtis, 31 Wright
Street, Adelaide, writes: “About
five years ago I was laid up for
sixteen weeks with neuritis and
rheumatism, partially paralysed.
I was recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
I am happy to say pulled me
through. I am 74 years of age
and still able to hold my own
with younger men. I have en-
joyed the best of health ever
since.”
Aikoroa division and the pestilential native
inhabitants of that pestilential region.
The launch swung over as the steersman
negotiated the swirling entrance at full
speed. Mr. Boardman’s mild eyes glinted
behind his spectacles.
“What ship, Sergeant?” he demanded.
There was something in his voice that was
akin to a sob.
“Namodia, sah,” Gibara answered with
promptness. “And Mis’ Huntley and a new
fella taubada stop ’long aft.”
“Then, Sergeant,” responded Boardman
graciously, “turn out the guard.”
He adjusted his helmet at a rakish angle,
took up his stick, and strolled negligently
towards the landing. His lineaments had
taken on an expression that was almost
cherubic.
The Government residency at Aikoroa
was a large, bare, shabby bungalow, built
by a bowelless Works Department who
made corrugated-iron their god and bowed
down and worshipped it. It stood on a little
crest overlooking a stretch of silver strand
washed by the waters of the lagoon. There
was a garden that was a wilderness of vari-
colored flamboyants, incense-diffusing shrubs,
slender betel-palms and eye-aching ground
orchids rioting together in rich profusion.
From the back verandah a stately colonnade
of cocoanut-palms led to the hibiscus-
bordered parade-ground, to the tin-roofed
barracks, gaol, store and office, patches of
cultivated ground and the malignly beauti-
ful forest that lay beyond.
Huntley and Chisholm had stepped ashore
clammy and dirty, very hot and very tired.
Two days wedged in the tiny cockpit of an
evil-smelling oil launch, packed with stores
and baggage under a baking sun, had
affected them both with an intense yearn-
ing for clean water, clean linen and smooth
chins.
Now they were lolling in rickety deck-chairs
on the front verandah—Chisholm immacu-
late, immutable as ever; Huntley in service-
able though much-laundered khaki. From
the back regions came the voice of Board-
man giving orders for the execution of a
cockerel.
Huntley coughed. “I wonder if you’d care
to stroll around the station .for an hour
or so? Sergeant Gibara, who is by way
of being a pal of mine, will show you every-
thing. The old bird is very keen to make
your acquaintance. What say?”
Chisholm grinned with disarming frank-
ness “Am I to construe that as an order
to make myself scarce, R.M.?”
“Something like that,” Huntley assented
drily.
He was smiling a little when Boardman
appeared. The young man flung himself
into the chair that had been vacated by
Chisholm.
“My little lambs have been plajdug up
again, the sergeant tells me,” Huntley re-
marked.
Boardman gazed at him with a counten-
ance wrapped in an expression of pro-
foundest gloom.
“Playing up!” In his voice was a sug-
gestion of a squeak. “I’ve argued with the
filthy swine, pleaded with ’em, all but gone
down on my bally knees to ’em, and—and—
I don’t know whether I’m coming or going
half the time. I’m glad you’ve come back,
Huntley. When can you take over?”
Nerves, Huntley decided—he’s as jumpy
as a cat. Then aloud: “Is it as bad as
that?”
Boardman turned upon him the eyes of a
bewildered boy. A sudden stab of compas-
sion for the little man came to Huntley.
“I want to get away from this damned
place,” Boardman muttered half to him-
self. “I want to get away now. Not to-
morrow, nor next week, nor next month —
but now.”
He stood up and began to pace jerkily
back and forth across the verandah.
“Start at the beginning,” Huntley sug-
gested, and he composed himself to listen.
Thereafter ensued a monologue by the
Acting-R.M., wherein lie cursed the whole
native creation of the Aikoroa Division with
impartial fluency. He told Huntley how
the people had repudiated the Government
and all its works; how they had banded
themselves together to resist the poll-tax;
how they had treated his orders with con-
tempt ; how—crowning insult—they had dis-
dained even to acknowledge his invitation
to a conference.
Huntley put in a word now and then,
asked a question or two, but for the most
part he was content to listen.
“They’ve got a maggot in the brain,” he
commented when Boardman ended. “Splen-
did sign in a primitive people, really—learn-
ing new tricks, you know. Co-operative
effort, if you take me; an indication that
the evolutionary urge is still a force to be
reckoned with”
“Blast the evolutionary urge, and all your
anthropology!” Boardman exploded. He
was manifestly not amused.
Huntley examined his finger-nails. “Ser-
geant Gibara is a veiy useful old cove,”
he remarked. “What does he think about
it all?”
Boardman stared. “I say, Huntley,” he
answered stiffly—“one doesn’t take a nigger
into one’s confidence on a question of
policy.”
“No,” Huntley drily conceded. “I sup-
pose one doesn’t.”
There was a long pause.- Huntley was
plainly dissatisfied with the state of his
finger-nails. Boardman took off his spec-
tacles and blinked owlishly as he polished
them on a mauve-edged handkerchief.
“Calvert —you know Calvert, of course —
has been most, helpful to me. He possesses
an encyclopaedic knowledge of these beastly
Aikoroa ducks of yours, and he has always
been ready with friendly advice and assist-
ance. He advises patience and tact; an
attitude of conciliation, forbearance.”
“Indeed!” Huntley’s voice was politely
non-committal.
“He has been jolly decent to me—Cal-
vert. I think he is quite right—about not
coming the bounce, I mean.”
“Indeed!”
There was another uncomfortable silence.
Huntley stood up.
“The Maipua will not be here for ten
days or so,” he remarked with seeming irre-
levance. “I wonder if you’d like to go back
to Baramata in the Namodia? Hand her
over to Marchmont, with my compliments,
and take the mail steamer to Port Mores-
by?”
Boardman blinked. “I say, Huntley,” he
exclaimed, “that’s jolly decent of you.” For
a moment he was confused, uncomfortable.
“You don’t have to tell me that I’ve made
a sickening mess of things here.”
“Not at all, my dear fellow. Don’t get
foolish ideas into your head.” He paused.
“Have you ever won a jackpot with a pair
of deuces, Boardman?”
Boardman stared owlishly, shaking his
head. Huntley laughed.
“There’s a lot of nonsense talked, and
more written, about ‘White Man’s Rule’—
civilisation and humanitarianism, right and
righteousness, justice and mercy, equity and
a good conscience—all the old tags that
look so fine in annual reports and the
columns of the politico-missionary press;
but when a couple of thousand truculent
bucks squat on their haunches and stick
out their betel-stained tongues at you, it’s
exactly like buying into a jackpot with a
bobtailed flush. I’m afraid you don’t see
the point,” he added, as Boardman con-
tinued to stare.
Huntley was silent for several moments.
He took a few quick steps backwards and
forwards, scanning Boardman’s face the
while.
“Have you seen anything of Durrant
lately?” he shot at him.
Boardman looked puzzled. He hesitated.
“Durrant?” he questioned. “I’m afraid I
don’t”
“Well, Nataroa Charlie, then.” Huntley
snapped.
A sudden light broke on Boardman’s in-
genuous face. “Er —no,” he answered. “I
can’t say that I have.”
“H’m!” Huntley grunted. He appeared to
be ruminating profoundly. Then, as though
having come to a decision, he spoke again.
“I think we may safely waive the for-
mality of ‘taking over,’ Boardman. Leave
all the papers in the office and I’ll send ’em
in. I’m thinking that if you want to catch
the mail steamer at Baramata you 11 Have
to be on your way immediately alter luncii.
Suit you?” ,
Boardman drew a long breath. Rene l
was written visibly on his face. Ive lelt
you the devil of a mess to clean up, ol
chap,” lie said slowly. “I—l there 11 be
no trouble about this blasted tax business.
“Why should there be? none,
j’jj promise you—absolutely none.”
“Thanks, Huntley,” Boardman stammered.
“I’m much obliged to you.”
“That’s all right.”
He wheeled and was gone before Board-
man could finish another stammering sen-
tence of thanks.
* »«***.
Your Guide.
Qp citizen, if you long for peace
And ways that do not tire,
I’ll show you a place where you will hud
The full of your heart s desire.
j T w v
p i ac e you’d see,
, Tig ovei . a hil] aiu j • another hill
That you’ll have to wander with me.
As we go onward o’er mile and mile
.Caressed by breezes sweet,
shV feet *
That 1 shall lead yOUr teet>
And w jj on we come tn our journey’s end.
y nd yOUi eyes g] a d, rejoice,
you’ll thank me over and over again
Witli a heart behind your voice,
Mate singing to feathered mate you II hear.
w j£ to°te Aotea
And never a hawk on high,
Ag you j oo k down through the vista fair,
Green alloyed and green aisled,
Fine fellowship of the trees youll feel,
And love of the wondrous w i d.
wind _ notes y 6u > n h(?ar and a murmured song,
The song of waters cool,
The gong of a cree p f a f ro nd-hid creek,
That wanders from pool to pool.
As there you bend in the noon, athirst,
To drink its water blue.
A face, not that that you saw last noon,
Shall smile from its depths on you.
You’ll say “What put that light in my eyes
That lately were so wan?
And how did I get that youthful smile.
And where have my furrows gone?
g citizen< . when you tire 0 f toil
c a ]p ca p to me> and then
Of a place that is green and wonderful
I’ll make you a citizen,
n.s.w.
RODEEIC QUINN.


SPORTINO
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The A.J.C. had a muggy and cloudy day
for the opening of its spring meeting, anti
now and then there were showers. Hard
luck for a club which, showing a brave front
to the times and ignoring a big loss on
1930-31 operations, was putting on the
richest race in Australia —with a sweepstake
of £3O and £BOOO added, that is what the
Derby amounts to this year. The attend-
ance was not greatly affected, for the wiu-
and-place totes have drawn habitual puntei’s
from the starting-price shops to Leger re-
serve and flat (a doubles tote would srttract
still more) ; and if people must back horses
it is a hundi'ed times better that they should
do it at Randwick than in the dens of
harpies and tax-dodgers. Gusty rain fell
before the Derby, and there was a scatter
for shelter, as a result of which tote receipts
suffered.
The Trial Stakes indicated how conspicu-
ous the three-year-olds are going to be in
handicaps this season. First, second and
third, Le Legion (3 to 1), Air Favorite and
Lavington, are of the Derby age, and they
were well clear of the older horses at the
finish. Le Legion is a nice stamp of a chest-
nut gelding by Legionnaire—La Benos; it
was his second success this season, and he
is being shrewdly “placed” by J. W. Cook.
A division of the Kensington Handicap went
to another three-year-old in Dermid (Tip-
pler—No Belle), who was favorite, at 7 to
2, displacing Weotara —badly away and pro-
bably capable of improvement—from that
position. Dermid put in a game finish
for jockey Cook and outstayed an outsider,
Chemosh, and old Killarney. In the other
division Panola (6 to 4) carried lOst. 71b. to
a comfortable victory, Pike giving the
younger generation of jockeys another lesson
in the art of riding horses with big weights.
In a sense, the Derby was “made” for
Ammon Ra. During his preparation he was
never sick or sorry, whei’eas Chatham caught
a cold and was off the track for a fortnight;
Johnnie Jason had to be eased up for a
Gert‘. 4 1 sav ( Bert
can you put the., hood up, oear 1 .
Seqt: *lm BUST JUST NOW*
daEQT'. *e>RUT6 . VOuRE
60T \t's st«vßtbd t O RAom
OUT HERE "
similar period after the chill he contracted
at Warwick Farm; and Ptolemy—conqueror
of Le Legion at Rosehill, giving him 191 b.,
and a fast-finishing second in the Chelms-
ford Stakes —went off altogether. Chatham
and Ptolemy were scratched; Johnnie Jasori
was one of the 13 starters, and was second
favorite at eights (Ammon Ra was at 9
to 4 on) ; but he was obviously not in good
shape for a severe mile-and-a-half race. Yet
he ran a most meritorious second to Ammon
Ra, who was in front at the four-furlongs
post and came into the straight with a good
lead. The resolute gelding from Newcastle
made up ground a furlong and a half from
home, and just for a moment it looked as if
the finish would be exciting, but superior
condition told, and, with McCarten keeping
him going, Ammon Ra w T as tw T o lengths to
the good at the judge's box. Illustrious (12
to 1) made a dash into third place entering
the straight, but, dying on his run, was de-
prived of that position by Koomeela (33 to
1), the big brother to Amounis, who whipped
in the strung-out field for a time, and came
home strongly. He is a better stayer than
Amounis was at the same age, and was
decidedly the surprise of the race, which
Was run in good time considering that the
track was dead and cut up—2min. 34 7 fsec.
Ammon Ra was bred in Maoriland, being
an unsexed son of Limond —Hyades; and a
Maorilander (C. C. Sheath) owns him,
another (J. T. Jamieson) trains him and a
third rode him. though McCarten has settled
in Australia. The owner gave 4000 guineas
for the gelding last January, and in two
months has collected £9175 in Sydney alone,
with important Melbourne engagements to
come. .Ammon Ra is a good horse, but
scarcely a great one. He will have stiffen
opposition in Melbourne from Chatham,
Johnnie Jason, Viol d’Amour and perhaps
1 brani, and one of them may take his measure.
His party frankly admits that it is not keen
on a meeting with Phar Lap. That champion
bad his usual easy win in the Spring Stakes,
cutting a second off Ammon Ra’s time, and,
as usual, the bookmakers refused to take
odds about him, betting only I—2. Chide,
with a good finishing run, passed The Dimmer
and got to within a length and a quarter of
Phar Lap, but Pike did not move on the
horse he knows so well.
That ante-post betting is a mug’s game was
demonstrated once more in connection with
the Epsom Handicap. On practically every
horse in the race McShortodds lengthened
the price ottered during the week in the bet-
ting clubs and shops. Pentheus opened at
threes, but when it was seen that Pike had
drawn No. 1 marble there was a rush to get
on, and soon the Tommies were roaring “Nine
to four the field ; tens bar one.” At 10 to 1
were Autopay and Legislator; Sir Duninald,
Burracootboo and Nut Cup figured at
twelves, Sun Eagle at fourteens, Ticino and
Cathmar at sixteens. Pentheus was first
away, but Autopay bounded to the front and
made the pace a cracker. H’e was two
lengths ahead when they had gone a couple of
furlongs, being followed by Ticino and Pen-
theus ; and in that order the three entered
the straight, with the rest straggling and
already out of it. Ticino, urged on by Munro,
drew almost level with Autopay, who was on
the inside, and Pentheus came fast on the
outside; but, displaying the utmost game-
ness, Autopay kept his neck in front, Pen-
theus dropping back a length and a quar-
ter behind Ticino. Thus was Camellia Stakes
form borne out, except that Burracootboo did
not separate Autopay and Ticino. He was
fifth for a time but failed to come on. Sun
Eagle also died away, after showing up
boldly; they, with Sir Duninald, were badly
placed at the barrier, but Sir Duninald, after
having a stormy passage, finished fourth,
ahead of three outsiders, Love Song, Denis
Boy and Trenette.
Jt was a sterling performance on Autopay’s
part, especially as with Bst. 61b. up he ran
the mile in lmin. 37sec. —equivalent perhaps
to 1.35 on a really fast track. And, though
not exactly a pony, he was about the smallest
horse in the field. No pluckier bit of stuff
has been seen at Randwick. A four-year-old
bay stallion by Paper Money—Trebelli 11, he
is owned by N. E. Aikten and H. F. Wood,
is trained by T. Pritchard and was ridden
—very intelligently—by McCarten. It was
certainly a great day for Maoriland. Autopay
dividends on the straightout machine were
£4 16s. 6d., for 10s. in the paddock and
£3 3s. 6d. for ss. in the Leger; for a place,
they were £1 10s. and £1 Is. There were
few big divs. (though Koomeela paid £6 15s.
for 10s. in the Derby), but backing favorites
for a place (flat races only) would have been
profitable. Le Legion paid 165., Panola 17s.
6d., Ammon Ra 11s., Phar Lap 10s. 6d., Penr
theus £1 6s, and Dermid 18s.
Autopay’s heroic exertions in the Epsom
richly entitled him to a holiday on Monday;
instead he was brought out for the Shorts.
In this he had to concede 61b. to Merab, the
stallion from South Aus., and it was soon
made evident that Merab could go as fast
as he could for a few furlongs. Autopay
dropped back beaten; Merab went on but
failed to withstand High Disdain’s smart run
on the rails. High Disdain went out at 10
to 1. It was the commencement of a wonder-
ful time for the bookmakers, who were all
grins after the Metropolitan. That race,
after a most exciting finish, in which Veil-
mond, Spearman, Carry On and Concentrate
were successively hailed as victors, fell to
the outsider Strength, on whom Rartle was
seen in his best form. Bartle must have been
glad to reach the judge's box, for Concen-
trate (8 to 1) was catching his mount at every
stride, but Concentrate’s run was made too
late. Spearman (14 to 1), who looked very
dangerous at the distance, weakened over the
last bit, and Carry On (25 to 1), finishing
much better than her stable-companion, Veil-
mond, broke even with the gelding for third.
Talkie ran well; and so did Chide, the favo-
rite.
• ••••*
Strength ran his Metrop. in slow time —
2min. 45|sec. —yet the track was fast. An
aged imported gelding by Sandow —Nysa, he
is owned and trained by J. J. Hansell, and
used to race at pony courses —proof posi-
tive that the handicap form of the older
horses over a distance is not much good.
Allegedly 50 to 1 in the ring, he paid £5O
3s. for 10s. on the straightout tote, and £5
Is. 6d. for a place. What Autopay and
Strength would have returned on a doubles
tote, if the Epsom-Metrop. double had been
struck, can only be guessed. Very probably
no course bookmaker laid Autopay and
Strength; of a certainty no one paid out on
Autopay and Concentrate, as a doubles tote
would have done.
For the remaining days of the meeting:—
Craven and Randwick Plates: Phar Dap.
Suburban Handicap: Sun Eagle; next,
Love Song.
Members’ Handicap : Flying Dave; next,
Oratoriou.
Sydney Handicap: Spearman; next, Le
Legion.
Salvador may make amends in the Waver-
ley Handicap on Saturday, and Weotara in
the Final Handicap.
* * * *
Flemington races last Saturday were held
under unfavorable conditions, rain falling
throughout the afternoon. Postponement
would have dislocated the entire spring car-
nival in Melbourne. Abandonment was
equally out of the question, as owners of can-
didates for the Cups and races such as the
Caulfield Guineas and Victoria Derby
urgently needed to give tlieir horses an out-
ing with the colors up. However, the value
of form disclosed is problematical. Juven-
iles shivered in the face of driving rain,
which made good alignment impossible in
divisions of the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes.
The two-year-olds appeared to engage in a
Maypole dance before the barrier lifted.
Liberal (Magpie—Charade), a brother to
Blather, had been shaping so brilliantly on
the tracks that Fred Foulsham believed he
had another Mollison. For the colts and
geldings’ division of the Maribyrnong Trial
Stakes this well-grown colt dominated the
betting; but, losing ground at the post,
Liberal never was in the picture. Success
rested with Sanballat, a brown colt by Moa-
bite fromCadena (imp.), who met with good
support. Sanballat belongs to C. E. Miller,
who bought him for 220 guineas, and it cost
a mere 90 guineas to acquire Dutchie
(Drake —Miss Milligan), who was a red-hot
favorite for the fillies’ division of the juv-
enile event. She is prepared by Jack Holt
for Mrs. L. R. Buxton. Dwelling when the
barrier lifted, Dutchie assisted to whip-in
the field throughout. The winner turned up
in the 33-to-l chance Rondelle, by Ronsard,
a Son-in-Law stallion that L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon, chairman of the V.R.C., imported
from England. She was purchased for 60
guineas.
Waterline, whose spring stocks are weaken-
ing considerably, suffered another weight-for-
age defeat in the October Stakes. The
autumn conqueror of Phar Lap was the only
penalised candidate, but his extra impost was
merely 51b. On a rain-soaked track Ibrani
set such a breakneck pace that the mile was
covered in lmin. 39 j- sec. In some measure
this accounted for Waterline dropping back
after the first furlong had been covered. He
was a long way from the leaders at the half-
way stage, but made a game effort in the
straight, and actually hit the front after
Ibrani snuffed out. Finishing brilliantly on
the rails, Viol d’Amour vanquished Water-
line by half a neck, with the Adelaide-owned
Hellenist (trained by Jack Holt) third.
Earlier in the afternoon Stephen had romped
home in the six-furlong Ilighweight Handi-
cap. Like Viol d’Amour, he will compete
in the Caulfield Guineas on Saturday, and
that race promises to be more interesting
than it has been for years past. Ammon Ra,
of course, will be a warm favorite;
but, with Stephen, Viol d’Amour and Chat-
ham in the field, the Maorilander may not
find it altogether a cakewalk. Ike Foulsham,
who has charge of Chatham, was among the
shivering spectators at Flemington. He ex-
pressed remorse at being compelled to hurry
the Victoria Derby and Melbourne Cup pre-
paration of the Windbag colt, but hopes that
the Caulfield Guineas outing will be helpful
in that regard.
While The Dimmer was following Phar
Lap and Chide home at weight-for-age at
Randwick, his four-year-old brother Royal
Barb was making hacks of Stand Handicap
rivals at Flemington. Clearing out from the
opposition, Royal Barb set up a lead of six
lengths. The boy eased him at the home
turn, but drew away again at the two-fur-
longs post and scored on the bit by a couple
of lengths from the fast-finishing Prince
Dayton. Royal Barb belongs to G. L. Scott,
who won the Doncaster Handicap of 1928
with Simeon’s Fort. He will take a lot ot
beating in the Caulfield Cup with 7st. 21b.
* * * *
Selections, Caulfield, Saturday:—
Caulfield Guineas: Chatham; next, Am-
mon Ra.
Toorak Handicap: Princess Betty; next,
Hellenist.
* * * »
“Ellesmere”: Maoriland racing is feeling
the pinch of hard times, as has been the case
in Australia. It is likely that many of the
smaller clubs will have to put the shutters
up. A recent meeting at Avondale, near
Auckland, showed a drop of £30,000 in tote
betting, the only sort that is recog-
nised in the Shivery Isles. It is estimated
that the racing and trotting clubs of the
Dominion—and the Red Hots there bulk as
big as the gallopers—are down £BO,OOO
on the year’s working, while the Govern-
ment raked in £521,000 in tote, and other
racing taxes during the same period. Small
wonder that a deputation from the clubs
asked the Minister for Finance the other day
to have a heart. They got the usual pro-
mise that the matter would be considered.
j
“Retired Urger”: I was a bit upset the
other day to' hear that things are so bad up
Lismore (N.S.W.) way that the local race
club is charging only 2s. admission to the
saddling paddock. The Northern Rivers
racing clubs in my time were some of the
best propositions for a pro. I ever ran across,
and the racing itself was quite good for
those who care about that sort of thing as
a sport. I hear that other country racing
centres are in even a worse way. I have
a splendid recipe for mending matters, and
one which, I am sure, will recommend itself
to Jack Lang and Mark Gosling. Give the
old fraternity an open go again. Allow the
spinning jennies, the little queen, roller
sweat, the purse trick, the monkey and the
marble barrel and the dozens of other good
old lurks to operate on the courses as in
the old days. The professors would have to
be licensed, of course, and taxed as well
on their turnover, but think what it would
bring in for hospitals!
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Fred. Hannaberry (list. Oflb.) fought so
effectively in the last four rounds of his
contest with middleweight champion Ambrose
Palmer (list. 4flb.) at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night that a win might have come
his way if he had been in high gear from
the first bell. Palmer piled in at all times,
though, and his non-stop tactics earned him
a decisive if not extremely popular points
victory. The pair meet again in a month’s
time.
lit * lit *
Welshman Billy Thomas (list.) was far
too experienced for Bill Singleton (list.)
at Leichhardt last Friday night, and ran
out an easy winner. Filipino Young Gildo
(Bst. 911 b.) also outpointed Herb Bishop
(Bst. 111 b.) throughout the big bout on
Saturday, eventually stopping him in , nine
rounds.
* * * *
“Tom Cribb”: There seems to be a bit of
a mix-up in America over the world’s heavy-
weight fighting championship. There was to
have been a meeting between Camera and
Schmelling, but that is definitely off. However,
on present arrangements, Camera is to meet
Sharkey on October 12 with the championship
not involved. If Sharkey, a great fighter
physically, were a little further removed from
the ape-man type, one would fancy his
chances even against the “Mountain of Meat.
His utter inability to control himself after
the first smack or two, which has proved his
undoing so often, will probably tell against
him again. Camera is said to have improved
out of all recognition as a boxer as opposed
to a mere outsize giant; he will need to,
if he is ever to be seriously considered as a
possible world’s champion.
Footbrawl
Another wet week-end greeted the Vic.
League final between Geelong and Carlton, add
kept the attendance at. Melb. O.G. down
to 36,653, with a gate of £1767, though the
League’s share of this will be assisted by an
insurance policy of £lOOO against rain. The
game turned out one of the most surprising
and thrilling of the series. Falling into their
stride at once and helped by a moderate
breeze, Carlton looked like repeating the
Collingwood overthrow, and at the first,
change had scored 7 goals 5 behinds to nix.
Then Geelong woke up. Their rucks began to
beat the Carlton men. Grieves, once the best
centre in the State, gave us a flash of his
old form; further forward, Collins, Evans.
Molony and Quinn were unbeatable, and
by half-time the rain-soaked crowds were
roaring and cheering at the figures—Geelong
8:9, Carlton 8:6. The third was even better,
for the Hubbites steadily fought the Blues
back and kept scoring down, so that a.t the
last change they were only a point behind
70 to Carlton’s 71. A few of the Blues
were inclined to stoush, but a caution or two
steadied them. The last term saw the
side in an unaccustomed position—with
their backs to the wall. Both sides were
fagged by the heavy going, but the Pivotom-
ans had an ounce of push left, and the wind,
and that gave them victory—ll goals 1 <
behinds (83) to Carlton’s 11 goals 11 behinds
(77). Gill, Crisp, Egan and Crowe were
a shade brighter than their Carlton mates
and Geelong’s backs, Todd, Lamb, Hickey,
were very solid.
* J * * *
“Hotham”: The Brownlow medal, which
is given each year for the best and fairest
player in the Victorian Football League, has
this year been awarded to Haydn Bunton, the
country player who signed up with Fitzroy
two years ago but was refused a permit
until this season, when he found his way
into the Victorian side against South Aus-
tralia. Bunton scored 26 points, only one_
ahead of Hopkins, of Footscray. The medal
is awarded on a weekly rating of players
by the umpires, who mark three men in each
match. In all 120 players were voted on.
The Warrnambool to Melbourne road race
for push-bikers over 165 miles was ridden
with a strong following wind on Saturday,
and exceptional times were registered. ■ The
Victorians monopolised the places, the winner
turning up in Lessing, of Brighton, who, with
a 63-minute start, was clocked in at (hr.
12min. 18 3-ssec. M. Lynch, of Hawthorn,
took fastest time, liis figures. 6hr. olrnin.
28sec with 8 min. start, breaking the course
record of I. R. Munro, which has stood since
1909, by over 41min. The amateur event
from Colac to Melbourne (100 miles) was
won by Laird, of St. Kilda. Fastest time.
3hr. 45min. 54sec., went to Milliken, or
Coburg, this being a world’s record.


39 1-
Free of Sales Tax.
6 Volts —11 Plates
FLEET
-v
Q.
Price is now no bar to quality, for in the
Fleet Battery you get a reliable long-
service-giving battery at the price of a
cheap one.
Also
12Volts —7 Plates for
65
Free of Sales Tax.
BATTERIES
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD
G.P.O. Bjox 71, Melbourne
The Ins and Outs
“Typo”: A London journal has beep
responsible for a quaint bloomer. When it
was given out that Don Bradman had
been offered an engagement by Accrington,
the cable fiend in the office made it an
engagement for “acting and singing.” This
was followed up by a paragraph dwelling on
Don’s musical abilities and the possibility
of his giving up cricket for the stage! There
is some excuse for the paper’s error, however.
Don lias certainly one supreme qualification
for success on the stage. He is one of the
most accomplished publicity-getters this
country has produced, giving Jack Lang in.
* 3= * *
“Glenelg”: Relations are slightly strained
between the South Australian and Victorian
cricket authorities over the proposal by Vic-
toria that Adelaide start the S.A. match
against the Springboks a day earlier in order
to allow the visitors time to see the Mel-
bourne Cup. The Croweaters have coun-
tered with the suggestion that if the Cab-
bage Gardeners are so dashed anxious to
advertise their principal reason for existence,
thev can bring the whole box of tricks to
Adelaide and run the race at Morphettville,
or even Onkaparinga, if they like.
3-. 3= * *
A. W. Green, who has been elected presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Cricket Association in
the room of W. P. McElhone, has been con-
nected with the administration of cricket in
N.S.W. for 53 years. He began as secretary
of the Cumberland district club, and was
elected a delegate to the association by North
Sydney as long ago us 1886. H'e was treas-
urer of the N.S.W.C.A. for 12 years and a
vice-president for 16, and for the last couple
of years has been acting president during
the illness of the retiring president. With
that sturdy fighter in the cause of cricket
he helped to found the Board of Control.
J|; $ ;l»
“Gabba”: Those folk who are reported to
be anxiously scanning the horizon for a good
bowler to strengthen the attack against the
South Africans have, as usual, ignored the
claims of Ron Oxenham, whose omission from
the 1930 Australian team for England
reflected seriously on the capacity of the
selectors. Last season the Queenslander was
one of the outstanding bowlers of Australia,
and already he has shown in the opening
stages of Brisbane club cricket that he is bowl-
ing better than ever, his bag for the opening
match being 9 for 44. Thurlow is also
taking wickets freely.
The N.S.W. Cricket Association’s Year-
Book for 1930-31 is a production of which
the association and the editor, H. Heydon,
its secretary, have every reason to be
proud. The volume, of over 300 pages, con-
tains all the latest records, including the
official scores of the last Australian side in
England, and those of the West Indians in
Australia last seasori. In addition, the laws
of cricket are included with the most recent
notes and interpretations by the Marylebone
Club. These notes are copyright, and only
the N.S.W. Year-Book, outside the M.C.C.
itself, is permitted to publish them. They
are indispensable for properly interpreting
the laws of the game. Published at sixpence
for public convenience, the Year-Book, excel-
lently printed on good paper, costs the pro-
ducers lid. a copy, though the compiler’s
painstaking labors are gratuitous.
3 : 3= * *
“Lancaster Park”.: In spite of shocking
woather conditions, the All Black cricketers
in England had only 3 losses to 7 wins,
though 26 games were drawn. Dempster,
who was out of several of the games through
injury, topped the averages with 58.02 for
34 completed innings; his top score being
212 against Essex, while in his only Test
he made 53 and 120, his total bag of cen-
turies being 7. Merritt took most wickets,
110 in all, but was bowled far too much.
The tourists once more struck a financial
snag, the loss being reckoned at between
£l5OO and £2OOO. As most of the money
required to launch the team was raised by
public subscription, it is presumed that the
MT.Li. cricket coffers will not suffer so
severely as on the last overseas tour.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The coming Japanese tennis
team should prove a big draw in Australia.
Harada is probably the greatest player Japan-
ese tennis has produced. He is a magnetic per-
sonality on the courts, very like Jean
Borotra in manner and style of play, and
a big favorite with the crowd wherever he
goes. Harada and Satoh have victories
over the redoubtable Henri Cochet to
their credit, a feat very few of the world’s
best can equal. Nunoi is the baby of the
party, and Nippon expects much from him
in days to come.
Harada and Nunoi are to arrive a,t
Brisbane on January 12, coming from Japan.
Satoh, who is in London, whither he went
with Harada in the Japanese Davis Cup team,
will come out via Westralia. The opening
match of the tour will be played in
Brisbane, and the team will then play
through Sydney and Melbourne to the Aus-
tralian championships at Adelaide in January.
•t* 3* ¥
“Centre Court”: Though the Australian
tennis authorities are as vociferous as clams
on the subject, followers of the game are
convinced that Australia should enter a team
for the next Davis Cup. It is years since
prospects for this country have seemed so
bright, for France has only Cochet to defend
her title, Borotra having definitely taken a
downward slide, while the reliable Brugnon
is also showing signs of falling off. Britain
and America certainly have capable young
teams, with the Americans probably the
better side, but neither is capable on present
performance of a runaway win from Aus-
tralia’s best. Our chief trouble is that our
men do not get enough first-class practice.
The American and English sides, which have
been playing against each other in the States
for some weeks past, must tremendously
improve each other’s game. At the same time,
Crawford on his present form is equal to
any of them, and he and Hopman are a cer-
tain first choice if a team Worth a
trial as third man is the South Austra-
lian Turnbull, and if a. good manager-player
can be included as fourth man the com-
bination should justify its selection.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Australian country golfers
at least will welcome the news that St.
Andrews has amended the part of rule
28 relating to loose impediments. These
may now be lifted from the putting
green with the hand, or brushed away with
the blade of the club. The old rule did not
permit the use of the club-head, and since a
loose impediment may be anything from a
snake to a phlegmatic cow application of the
hand was not always advisable or possible.
The alteration brings the rule into line
with another section of it relating to worm
casts, snow, etc., in which the use of the
club-head to brush away the intruding matter
is permitted. At the same time the club
must not be placed with more than its own
weight on the ground, nor may anything be
pressed down with it.
* * * S'.
“Sandringham”: Alee Russell has been
.laying out a new course for Royal
Melbourne. He has gone back to the
principles of earlier days, and, instead
of creating an artificial course with immacu-
late straight fairways and conventional
bunkering, has utilised the natural contours
of the ground as much as possible to provide
the difficulties, while there is hardly a
straight hole in the lay-out. It is a wise
move. Many of our big Australian courses
are far too simple, and this accounts in some
measure /or the inferior showing of our best
players when they find themselves pitted
against British and other champions on
oversea courses.
; i*
“Hamilton” : Queensland is holding its pro-
fessional golf championship in Brisbane this
week, the convincing ground being the Royal
Queensland course at Eagle Farm. The
first event will be the 36-liole qualifying play
for the Dunlop Cup, the eight leaders in this
meeting in match play for the Dunlop-
Perdriau trophies. The event was won last
year by the ex-N.S.W. player Sinclair, open
champion of the State, who is professional
at Warwick club on the Darling Downs. The
actual championship will be played for on
the same course from October 12 to 15. The
holder of the title is C. Brown, of the
Goodna club, who is defending it.
3: * *
“Brassey”: The latest Sydney munici-
pality to toy with the idea, of a public golf
course is Randwick, which proposes to lay
out a nine-hole links at Kensington. Rate-
payers, having in view the good profits made
by the Woollahra folk next door from a
similar enterprise, enthusiastically support
the notion —that is, all except the racehorse
owners and trainers, who carry on one of
Australia’s great national industries in the
neighborhood, and object strongly to the
scheme. Why is not quite clear, but it is
not impossible that they fear the effect of
the language of bunkered golfers on the
innocent two-year-olds under their care.
* * =:= 3:
“H'oylake”: A couple of important golf
championships were finalised last week. One
was for the British professional title, and
was won by A. Padgham, who beat W.
Seymour 5 up and 4. Padgham was so keen
to get into the Ryder Cup side that he refused
one of the plums of his calling, the job as
professional to the Berlin club. The other
event was the American women’s champion-
ship, over which Glen.na Collett had held a
mortgage. She appeared as Mrs. Vare, and
the change of name proved unlucky, one. Miss
Hicks beating her in the final 2 and 1.
3: 3= * *
“Hoylake”: Though it is only two years
or so since St, Andrews lifted the ban on
steel-shafted golf clubs it is definite that
they have come to stay. They will never
entirely oust hickory shafts, _ but for the
younger generation, at least, will be tlm only
wear. Older players swear that there is
something lacking in the steel which is found
in hickory, but the fact remains that many
leading players, including top-notch profes-
sionals, are adopting the steel. Something of
the same sort lias happened in the case of
the golf-ball. When the gutty began to
supersede the old leather ball stuffed with
feathers the diehard brigade forecast the
end of golf as a game of skill. When the
core ball succeeded the gutty the golfing
world was again torn into two antagonistic
camps, as has been the case with the intro-
duction of the larger and lighter American
ball. Presumably, there will be further dis-
sensions as further changes intrude.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The Americans are after Mal-
colm Campbell’s motor record again; “Babe”
Stapp, a noted Californian, will give it a fly
at Daytona in February. His machine will
carry two 217-cubic-inch 8-cylinder Dusen-
burg engines, these being placed side by side.
A novelty is the body design, which resembles
an inverted aeroplane wing. This is expected
to have the same qualities in keeping the car
on the ground as the aeroplane wing has to
lift itself up. The car will weigh some 5000
pounds, and the fish-tail stabiliser affected
by British designers lias not been utilised.
}'; t’fi
“Whizz”: Mrs. E. M. Stewart, who has
been much in the limelight as a motor-
speed driver of recent years, learned the
game driving an ambulance in the Russian
Army during the war. As a racing motor-
ist, the lady has captured 28 world’s records
for three-wheeled cars, reaching 130 m.p.h.
A couple of months ago she took the world’s
record for the 100 kilometres run, and quite
recently put up new world’s figures for a
small car over 5 and 10 miles, driving an
Austin 7 at the Montlhery track, near Paris,
at an average speed of 109 m.p.h. and 108.95
m.p.h. respectively.
* 3: 3= 3s
“Hotham”: J. 11. Pringle, the Victorian
motor-bike rider who won the 200-mile road
race at Phillip Island last January, has
made his mark in Britain by reaching a
speed of over 100 m.p.h. at Brooklands.
Though a newcomer to the track, Pringle
won the Prestwick Cup, a lap scratch race,
averaging 88.9 m.p.h. In a 25-mile race
the same day the Victorian finished third
with a best lap of 100.6 m.p.h. as against
the winner’s 102.4. For this he won the
gold star awarded motorists who officially
lap the Brooklands track at 100 miles or
over.
“Kick Starter”: Stuart Williams, who
competed in the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy
races, is not downcast over his failure to
lift at least one of the events. In his opinion
it is quite possible for an Australian
to score in the famous series, though many
riders are convinced that no one can learn
the intricate course without. many months
of practice on it, such as British riders are
•able to undertake. This was Williams’s
third try at the motor-bike classic, and he
succeeded in putting up the best perform-
ance yet recorded by an Australian rider,
filling seventh place in the lightweight event,
for which he was awarded a miniature
replica of the trophy.
* * * *
“Deagon”: Queensland amateur cycling
authorities are planning a 100-mile road
race. It was suggested that the contest should
be from Toowoomba to Brisbane over the
Main Range, but the idea was abandoned in
favor of a run on the level from South Bris-
bane to Southport and back. Dunlop-Perdriau
are donating £25 to provide refreshments for
the competitors, and prizes will also be on
a liberal scale. October 24 will be the
deciding day.
Miscellaneous
“Toowong Reach”: The Queensland row-
ing season opened with the Brisbane club’s
regatta, and though the old organisation
didn’t manage to catch the judge’s eye in
any of the events the affair was a big suc-
cess. The 8.R.0. is the daddy of all the
Queensland rowing clubs, and, considering
that nowadays the sport is popular right
up the long Queensland coast from Brisbane
to Cairns, that is saying something. Formed
in 1885 as the Breakfast Creek R. C., the
club had a long run of success, and boated
the first Queensland crew to score in an inter-
state event, a feat achieved in 1890, when
the club won the champion fours of N.S.W.
This was not surprising, seeing that three of
the quartette were Cantab Blues —Joe, Colin
and Willy Bell, the fourth place being filled
by Billy Molle. All four were Queensland
born.
* * * *
Bowlers have set the ball rolling to attract
visitors to the opening of the Sydney Harbor
Bridge. The N.S.W.B.A. is out with a pro-
gramme which will take up a fortnight. It is
estimated that 2000 bowders will take part in
the festivities, so no wonder brewery shares
are rising. The foresight of Jim Wall,
patron of the association, is responsible for
the invitation of an American team. A
British side will also be seen in action, all
going as expected.
The world’s flying speed record took a big
jump upwards last week when British Flight-
Lieutenant Stainforth, flying a Vickers super-
marine with a 2600-h.p. Rolls-Royce engine,
averaged 408.8 m.p.h. for four runs over the
measured mile course, beating his own
world’s record of 379 m.p.h. His fastest laps
were 415.2, 406.1, 409.5 and 405.4 m.p.h.,
whereas in the previous attempt he succeeded
in topping the 400 on only one run —the
first man to do so. Weather conditions were
by no means favorable.
“Bias” : One result of the row at Brisbane,
where a bowler was found to be inadvertently
using “woods” which did not comply with
the “drawing” standard (B. 16/9/’3l), has
been the issue of an ultimatum by the heads
of the game in the Ma State concerning the
methods of bowlers taking their bowls for
testing to the official authority. On many
occasions bowls stamped as coming up to
standard have been found faulty. It is the
duty of the tester to cancel the old stamp be-
fore affixing a new one. Many owners have
objected to this procedure, and refused to
permit the cancellation. The ukase referred
to says that though players may own the
bowls the stamp is the property of the Aus-
tralian Bowling Council, and may be altered
or imposed just as the constituted authority
directs, no matter what tears are shed by
the owner of the flattened spheres. How
these variations crop up is a murky mystery,
save to a few, who, like the writer, like a
“straight” wood.
“Splash”: Our Olympic swimjhers are
going to strike a snag in the 19-year-old
Frenchman Jean Taris, who is now being
rated as better than Johnny Weissmuller at
his best. Taris has been putting up times
which will make our best performers look
sick. He has wiped out half a dozen world’s
records from the sprints to the middle dis-
tances, and by such a margin as to suggest
that there is no one in sight anywhere cap-
able of beating him; his performances, excel
those of Charlton and Arne Borg. Really,
the money expended on a swimming
team would be better employed in ship-
ping across an Australian eight-oar crew.
It is good betting that Australia would
score in the rowing event. The fact
that Bobby Pearce will represent us
in the sculling ensures, at least, one Aus-
tralian win. Jim Cai-lton, given some coach-
ing on the cinders over there, is a possibility.
Otherwise, one cannot see hope for Australia.
* * =:< *
“Nullos”: Australian bridge fiends will
have a chance of bowing down before the
high-priest of the craft when R. F.
Foster lands in Australia. British-born, the
expert has for years been living in America,
and his works on the game of which he has
made a lifelong study are regarded as the
last word on the subject. In the dark days
before bridge became known to the Anglo-
Saxon race, Mr. Foster was an authority on
whist, and many will remember an ingenious
system he invented for drilling into players
the correct leads and the replies to them.
In Sydney on October 10 he will conduct
a series of lectures on auction and contract-
bridge, and will also be available for private
lessons. He comes under the wing of Farmer
and Co.


Sleek hair
Make your hair sleek, soft and
lustrous by feeding its dry,
weakened roots with the rich,
pure nourishment of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil every day.
O f Chemists,
Stores and
II a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
aid’s
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London; W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
.1 H. & CO.
TO-DAY TO-MORROW
Yesterday does not matter any more, but what you do to-day may
make or mar to-morrow. It is of no use repining about what should
have been done —it is what lies to our hands now that really counts.
To an extent contemplation of yesterday may help, for everyone made
mistakes then, especially the errors of omission. Whatever of hardship
or disappointment they may have brought they have at least pointed a
lesson for us. To-day, now, is the time to do things, and this applies
especially to the thrifty accumulation of money. We cannot read our
needs for to-morrow but we can begin to provide for them.
There is no easier, better plan than the Commonwealth Savings Bank
provides.
Cbirnnoiiwcaltl) Savmas Bank of Hustralia
{Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government .)
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Tennon's Hotel
BRLSBANE
The cantre of Queensland's
Distnuised social Life
The spring meeting was a bit of a wash-
out on Saturday, for the sky sprang a leak,
and the girl who knew her onions girded
herself in winter topcoat or costume for her
conquest of the hooks. For weeks we had
been threatened with a Randwick over which
billows of chiffon and organdie would ripple.
The poke bonnet and the side curls of Dick-
ens heroines were even tipped as making an
appearance, with a few courageous pyjama
skirts as a counterblast. However, only
a few very young, misguided things turned
out in trailing and flounced organdies topped
by overweight brimmed hats, and Broderie
Anglaise made but a few apologetic en-
trances. A pink straw hat decked with
ostrich plumes must have caused its wearer
a broken heart when the three o’clock storm
beat mercilessly down, and the black spiders
which crawled all over the voluminous white
satin frock of one tall lady must have wished
nature had equipped them with more cover
than a web.
The stands were crowded, just as in the
good old days, and they say the car attend-
ance was, if possible, greater, so the pessi-
mistic gardener who had sown the monster
“A.J.C.” on the lawn in the lialf-mourning
of purple and white violas was wrong. But
this Better for the first time saw a group
having a picnic lunch in its car, which is
either a sign of economy or an extra touch
of the exclusive. Otherwise, manners were
on just about the same old push-and-scramble
level.
Hats were of the feathered bowler, the
flowered period or the sailor, which bears no
resemblance whatever to the sailor of yester-
year. Most faces beneath the bowlers and
the period hats looked like boulders. Lady
Game’s choice was a wide black straw trim-
med with a small tuft of white feathers, and
she was otherwise admirably clad in white
and black marocains under a tailored black
coat. Miss Crowdy, smart in navy blue
and white, was at the wheel of the vice-
regal car when it entered the enclosure.
Captain Feakes was the nearest approach
to a male thrill in the vice-regal party, for,
kind and clever and all that as they are,
British Commissioner Crutchley, T. R.
Bavin, Lud Mayor Jackson and even violinist
Balokovic, though he never ceases talking,
would hardly be reckoned dashing Loehin-
vars; and though Sir Philip Game’s smile
warms the spine you could never mistake
him for anything but a family man; Pat
O’Shea, from Brisbane, was one of the few
really and truly well-dressed in the stand:
top-hatted, tail-coated and carrying himself
like a Guardsman, Pat made a progress that
was quite impressive.
The Heritages, Chief Sec. Mark Gosling
and his wife and the Reggie Allens were
others who lunched with the Government
House party. In the afternoon aide Gif-
ford’s mother, Mrs. G. H. Rayner, very cor-
rect in grey tailorings and a grey beretta,
and good-looking Jean Cheriton, in a grey
coat of the swing-back variety that only
the willowy can wear, were added to the
group.
Though things improved after the open-
ing it was probably the worst-dressed spring
meeting Randwick has known. Still, one
tall lady was in the handsome class —
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar. Her black en-
semble flashed a touch of lilac and a ribbon
of the same shade banded her bowler hat.
Mrs. Reggie Stafford, from Cassilis way,
wore a severe hat, and came out _of the
ordeal with honors. Mrs. Dan Kelly’s white
fox looked as though its home address really
had been the North Pole. Another enviable
fur was worn by fresh-looking Morna Mac-
Cormick. Hers was one of those neat-look-
ing, waist-length capes of mole, and she wore
it over a silver-grey frock. Other young
attractions were Kathleen Fogarty, of Mel-
bourne, who was hatted and frocked in a
heavenly shade of blue; Joyce Beazley, Betty
Moore and Helen Stephen, all smart in black
and white. Mrs. Pat Osborne wore crossed
quills in her hat, while Mrs. Oliver Osborne’s
outfit featured a lush growth of furs. Muriel
Cobcroft, in grey, suggested Mercury with the
outspread wings on. her small grey hat; the
Ellis Feilding-Joneses were a cheery-looking
couple; Mrs. Harry Dransfield featured a
cascading navy blue and white ostrich boa;
Dorothy Tait, in a grass-green coat, caught
the eye; ex-C. J. Knox’s lady went about her
affairs in navy blue; Barbara and Janet
Knox and Una Clift wore among the throng;
Mrs. John McKelvey’s hat had the neces-
sary crushed-down-over- the-right-eye. look,
and the little coat to her blue suit was
fringed. Mrs. Balokovic turned up in a
neat suit of sand marocains.
“You’ll not hear two such speeches again
in Sydney for 20 years,” an old member or
the Bar declared after leaving the farewell
to Judge Ferguson, that member of the
Supreme Court whom everybody likes ana
hundreds love. The speeches were those ot
Justice Harvey and the man who was saying
good-bye to scenes in which he had played
three parts —first as reporter, then as
counsel, finally as Judge and for a year
Acting Chief Justice. David Ferguson must
be almost the last of the intimates of the
youngish J. F. Archibald : they lived together
in the days before either of them married.
Nobody could write a more entertaining book
of recollections.
For three days Sydney had a multi-million-
aire walking about its streets with no visible
improvement in business. W. K. Vanderbiu,
the papers say, refused to be interviewed.
But what could one interview a millionaire
about? This Letter would know how to
tackle a poet, a philosopher or an explorer;
but as tp millionaires all it really wants to
know is whether they get more fun out ot
life than we do. They can write out a
cheque at any time, of course; still they
don’t have the excitement of dashing round
to the bank to see if there’s enough money
to meet it as well as the electric-light cheque
which you were harried into paying yester-
day. No thrill for them either in the win-
ning of a sweep, the planning of a voyage.
No, if this Letter had to interview a mil-
lionaire, there’s only one question it could
think of: Is there anything, poor rich man,
for you to thrill over?
The Girl in the Flat Opposite complains
that she still feels flannel-footed from the
Lud Mayor’s Ball. She says when she en-
tered the vestibule and saw a mile or so of
ruby-red carpet gambolling the full length
of the Town Hall, right up to the dais at
the top end, she thought it was going to
be no end of a party; and before the night
was out she felt there was no end to it.
She stood about till she knew she must
look like a crane (and that’s nothing to do
with Frank Crane, of tlie Civic Guard) or
a moorhen. Like everybody _ else, she cer-
tainly was moored. Exchanging polite chit-
chat was the principal recreation, and there
seemed a firm determination among even the
sumptuously decorated to wait for the
supper. When the signal came the whole
concourse plunged into the basement, only
to be met with little tables dressed with
Iceland poppies, sandwiches and coffee or
such-like drink. A Lud Mayor’s ball and
no turkey, no bubbly, no partridge! It was
a .bitter disappointment.
Mrs. W. A. Mackay is president of the
ball in aid of the Rawson Institute which
is one of the outstanding fixtures for next
month. Tt will have the luxurious setting of
the Strath-
naver, one of
the new P.
and O. ships.
When not
dancing, revel-
lers can visit
the swimming
pool, the
Italian lounge
with its blue-
lacquered Cor-
inthian pillars,
the verandah
sun-cafe which
is in the
Spanish style,
the Queen
Anne reading-
and writing-
roo m, the
Scottish smok-
ing-room (its
fireplace con-
tains a
wrought-iron grate similar to those in the
Palace of Holyrood), and finally have supper
in a dining-room blended of English and
French. Still, there’s no need to feel a
foreigner; English is spoken everywhere.
Twenty-one years ago a woman who loved
books, and, who knew how sharp the mental
hunger of out-back men and women could be-
come, planned the Bush Book Club. The
benefactor, dead these few years past, was
Mrs. Aubrey Withers. Last week, when
the club’s coming of age was celebrated,
poetess Dorothea Mackellar told of the part
Mrs. Withers had played in organising this
circulating library. A birthday cake swelled
under its snowy breast, and, this being cut
by the Governor’s lady, each caller was en-
titled to a piece. Judging by the rally, if
the last woman got a whole raisin the cake
must have had miraculous properties. But
even more interesting than the cake was
the map studded with little flags to mark
the route that the 8.8. C. books travel from
the Sydney centre to the outermost reader.
Dorothea Mackellar was one of those who
watched the rapidly-mounting piles of books
(every visitor brought a present) ; secretary
Beulah Bolton welcomed all; Mrs. Keystone
Davey, another steadfast friend, stood by;
Miss Crowdy (just recovered from her issue
of scarlet i'ever) fitted a neat little hat
snug on her new shingle; and Muriel Bee
was the belle of the tea-drinking.
This Letter drops ft tear over the passing
of Bert Toy, editor of the “Woman’s Mir-
ror,” The Bulletin’s wonderful little
sister. He was one of the kindest and most
helpful of editors, and a man of extraordi-
narily wide interests; on his vacations he
would spend a whole day watching an ear-
wig at its job, or he would discuss book-
binding, bowls or ballads —he was an autho-
rity on each. Mrs. Toy and daughters Sadie
and Barbara (the latter married and in
England) sorrow for him.
Last week in this Letter a mother attended
the consecration of her son as an R.C. bishop.
This week a mother and a wife attended
the swearing-in of a Judge of the Supreme
Court; and the job was done by the young
man’s father, Chief Justice Street. So
father and son will be on the Bench to-
gether. Matthew Henry Stephen just missed
sitting with Ids father; the latter retired
four years too soon. Curious, though, how
many Chief Justices produce judicial sons.
There were Alfred Stephen aforesaid and
his son Matthew; there was the earlier case
of the first Chief Justice Forbes, whose son
was on the District Court bench ; then Chief
Justice Dowling, Francis Forbes’s, successor,
whose. son also became a District Court
Judge; now come the Streets.
And still Kenneth Street isn’t the young-
est Judge in Australia: Dr. Evatt (37) still
has that distinction. The Evatts, by the
way, have taken Billy Hughes’s house at
Sassafras during the long sittings of the
High Court in Melbourne. The ex-Primin-
ister rarely looks in on his old home among
the timber and the tree-ferns now that Can-
berra is the capital; but it has never been
allowed to get overgrown.
This unusual head is Nora Heysen’s. With
father, the painter, and her mother Nora
has been spending a few weeks in Sydney.
She is a gifted artist herself, and her flower
studies and
still-lifes are
charming. A
George Lam-
bert story is
told in this
conn ection.
Nora had
painted exquis-
itely a basket
of eggs, and
somebody who
had seen the
picture was
rhapsodising to
George about
it. “A dozen
eggs at least,
Mr. Lambert;
each one per-
fect.” “Quite
s o,” said
George, “but
there you have
the difference.
A Lambert, sir. would paint only one egg!
Still the young S. Australian had no warmer
admirer than George. Picture from May
Moore.
Billy Hughes was fussing over his meal
in the Canberra pub of which he has been
so long an impervious guest when Walter
Kingsmill, President of the Senate, entered
the room. “Come over here, Kingsmill,
Billy called in his flat voice. When the
Senator had sat down Hughes burst out:
“These fellows annoy me, Walter, with their
talk, talk, talk of hard times. Why, very
few of them know what being hard up
means. I remember once, when I was on
the track, I lived for three days on the
fruit of the prickly-pear. It took months to
get the prickles out of my tongue.”
“Months?” said the sparkling Westralian.
“Why, Billy, you haven’t got them out yet,
and that must be 40 years ago !”
Prince Alfred’s held a levee every day last
week, when members of the Residents’ and ex-
Residents’ Association were enjoying their
“Back to Hospital Week.” There were
meeting and lectures and all sorts of comings
and goings along the corridors, and frivols
were slipped in between serious affairs. The
annual dance of the P.A. medical officers was
the most dazzling of the interludes, and the
Blaxland Galleries, where it was staged, was
one of the cheeriest spots in the city that
night. Medical-superintendent Dr. W. A.
Bye was host of the official party; and here
among such well-knowns as Dr. Cecil Purser
and Mrs. Purser, Matron Boissier and
assistant-matron Lowe, was Dr. Dora
McMahon, radiant in blue chiffons. Mrs.
John McKelvey was swathed in white satin,
the Bouverie Anderson-Stuarts were there,
and so were Dr. Geoffrey Maitland and his
bespoken Alice Carruthers. Lorraine Sten-
ning, in jade georgettes, was another of the
good-lookers.
The Mayoress’s ball for the bush nurses
drew the patronage such a good cause
deserved; the Town Ilall was overflowing
■with what the dailies call “representative
citizens” as well as “sprightly youth.” Among
the last must be mentioned the 12 who, by
bobbing to the Governor and bis lady, were
transformed into social butterflies. They
made a pretty group, their, heads garlanded
(as advised by Sappho) with fresh flowers:
and ringed by admiring eyes they danced an
old-fashioned minuet before their partners
claimed them for their first grown-up dance.
The Town Hall itself deserves a word ol
praise; dressed in young gum-trees, palms
and ferns, the dear old thing looked as
benignant as one might imagine Queen V ic-
toria did in her most gracious moments
Opossums and native bears caracoled amid
the scarlet Sturt-pea, the regal waratalis and
the fragrant boronia in the vice-regal pen.
The Sturt-pea, secretary Mrs. Hamilton
Lewis told, came from the Bush Nursing
Centre at Merriwagga, and the nice bush
nurses sent along bouquets for Lady Game,
Mrs. Jackson, the Clubbe and MacCallum
ladies, and Mrs. Hamilton Lewis herself.
The only daughter of the J. D. Ryans, of
Chatswood, Edna, an Abbotsleigli ex-pupil,
has accepted a cluster of diamonds from John
Kirkaldy Johnston, the elder son of the
Johnstons, of Hay. John grows sheep at
Collar,enebri. His mother was one of the
Esplins.
OVERHEARD.
“No, I never take the tram up the hill.**
“Saving your pennies?”
“No, losing my pounds.”
Brisbane’s breezy bit: —
Lady Goodwin went to a reception at the Town
and Country Women’s Club, which was decorated
with African daisies, lupins, gai Hard las and Iceland
poppies. Mrs. A. A. Fullarton, vice-president, and
Laura Smith, lion, sec., welcomed her Ex., who
was in black and white pin-spot crepe de Chine,
with a close-fitting black hat and white scarf. Jean
Naylor arranged the music.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin gave a dinner party
at Government House to the Premier, the Treasurer
and Mrs. Bames, the R. M. Kings, the E. A. Ather-
tons, the H. E. Sizers, Attorney-General and Mrs.
Macgroarty, the Godfrey Morgans, the Charles Taylors
and Mr. F. Ryder.
Arriving in Australia 70 years ago, Mrs. Olivia
Clark, of Ascot, reached her 100th year last week.
She remembers when a tree grew in the middle of
Queen-street and housewives ysed to put out tubs
to catch rainwater. There were two cabs in Bris-
bane in those days, and at dusk the police used to
round up the blacks and turn them out of the town.
The Vanderbilts have been here in their yacht,Alva.
The lady has brown hair, hazel eyes and carmined-
laoquered finger-nails, and in grey silk, with a brown
coat and hat, looks a dainty little woman. Austrian
pine and Circassian wal nut line the card-room and
drawing-room of the Alva, one room being upholstered
in biscuit, the other in pearl grey. The voyagers
are keen on seeing the Barrier Reef, which they say
is spoken of in America as one of the wonders of
the world.
Wild may and white lilies decked St;. Mary’s,
Kangaroo Point, for the marriage of Edward Lava-
rack and Gwyneth Souttar. The bride, who was given
away by her uncle, 11. C. Quodling, was in ivory-
satin with a point-lace veil and trail of orange
blossoms. Betty Dix ’maided in turquoise floral
mariette. Floradene, Annerley, saw the feasting,
Mrs. Souttar receiving in Nile green.
The Rev. Mother Kevin, who died at All Hallows,
came out very young from Ireland and was one of
the founders of the Warwick Convent, where she was
Mother Superior for 45 years.
Jean L. Lyons, of Glen Alpin, announces her en-
gagement to Edward Pearce, of Stanthorpe.
Off to Melbourne with his wife, and with some 50
pictures for exhibition in the Fine Art Society’s
Gallery, goes Roy Parkinson. In the collection are
several North Queensland subjects, two large water-
colors, one of Lake Manchester and another of Can-
ungra Valley, and a group of jacaranda studies,
chiefly obtained in New Farm Park, Brisbane, which
' show the delicate passing loveliness of that fragile
November blossom. The artist is already represented
in the Melbourne Gallery.
Tassie dances in :
Mrs. B. E. Duncan placed the Continental at the
disposal of the committee which ran a carnival for
the City Mission Canteen, the Free Kindergarten
and the Child Welfare Association, and her generosity
made all the difference in the results. There were a
bridge party at which 80 tables were filled, and on the
following night a ball, where the novelties included
the liberation of a cloud of balloons, one of which
burst and scattered theatre tickets.
It was encouraging, at the Arts and Crafts exhi-
bition, at the Town Hall, to see some outstanding
work by local competitors. The grandfather’s clock,
made entirely by Harold Sargison, with its fine case,
the work of his Lather, and the processional cross of
beaten silver on a blackwood staff, the work of the
president, Mr. Alan Walker, were the high spots of
the show. Three miniatures by artist Florence Rod-
way claimed a lot of attention.
Budding Shakspeares and Noel Cowards are en-
couraged to try their hands by the Hobart Rep.
Society, which laid the first brick of its own Little
Theatre by giving three short plays at the studio.
Curtains only were employed for scenery, with ex-
cellent effect. Seating accommodation ran short, so
the affair is to be repeated. E. E. Unwin prefaced
the show by a short lecture on repertory aims gener-
ally and the one-act play in particular.
Mrs, Kay, with, her daughter and son-in-law,
Capt. and Mrs. Breadmore, returned from England by
the Narkunda. The Breadmores will make a short
stay in the Speck before going back to India.


THE NEW "FISK" SERIES
RADI OLA „■
ft* w
; vf
* .few
a
4
IS,;
&
H
Hi
I
/
•
a?. i
! *1
::
S&h£sß
■■■■
H
SffiMHfl
■n
■Bl
ilill
I I
mMmm
fei ** '> ''*. V
illlili
IHiillill
mm
..... mu :
■■
■I
:
■
Bl
g ■
f 41 4 I
Hums i
OTlfr*/
The Choice of the Discriminating
. . . Little wonder that the new "Fisk Series’’
Radiola is the choice of those who appreciate the
best in broadcast reception.
Brilliant performance, sound engineering and
distinctive appearance combine to stamp the new
"Fisk Series” Radiola as the finest four-valve all-
electric screen grid cabinet receiver yet manu-
factured in Australia for Australian conditions.
Its exceptional performance, local and inter-
state reception, beautiful tone, extreme selec-
tivity and ease of operation have made it a
favourite in countless Australian homes. It in-
corporates tone control —a simple turn of the
knob to right or left emphasises bass or treble at
will.
ONLY A.W.A. —with the most up-to-date
Radio-Electric Works in the Commonwealth
and the largest production in the industry —
could have made such a quality set available at
the low price of £39/l 0/-, completely equipped.
Your local Radiola Dealer will be pleased to
demonstrate this superb Radiola and explain the
easy terms on which it may be acquired.
A product of
Amalgamated Wireless (A/sia) Ltd.
THE GREATEST VALUE IN RADIOLA HISTORY


Missing Friends.
\Y7TLL JACK COLWILL, of Devon, Eng-
” land, communicate with his sister Ada,
or Elsie. Home address.
•JO FLORANCE WILLIAM THOMPSON formerly
of Ararat but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Dellarenza Thomp-
son has commenced proceedings for divorce (numbered
1931 No. 362) against you in the Supreme Court
of Victoria on the grounds of your desertion for
three years and upwards.
Unless you enter an appearance in the olhc-e oi
the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria
on or before the 9tli day of November 1931 and
further do file an answer in the said office to the
Petition filed by your wife within ten days after
entering the said appearance the cause may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs.. , _•
This advertisement is inserted by order of His
Honor Mr. Justice McArthur made in this matter
on the 2nd day of October 1931.
MALLESON, STEWART, STAWELL & NANKIVELL,
46 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
Legal Notice.
TO JOHN O’CONNOR .FORMERLY OF SYDNEY
1 AND COBAR (N.S.W.) SON OF MARGARET
O’CONNOR DECEASED AND TO HIS CHILDREN
OR OTHER ISSUE AND ALL PERSONS CLAIMING
BY THROUGH OR UNDER HIM OR THEM.
PURSUANT to an order made on 18th September
1931 by a Judge of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand you are hereby called upon to send in to
the undersigned on or before 31st December 1931
your claims to the estate of the abovenamed deceased
who died intestate at Dunedin on 17th June 1931
failing which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto disregarding your
claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 21st day of September,
1931 * G. G. ROSE,
Soliictor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION: HAY FEVER.
PALACE:
the high cost of loving.
T c wTIL iams o n, ltdT,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL : FLORODORA,
With DOROTHY BRUNTON and All Star Cast.
METALS ARE UP
and two more Broken Hill mines are working
full time.
MORE WAGES FOR THE HILL-
MORE SPENDING POWER.
Take advantage of it and advertise in the mart
progressive and most -idely read paper of the
vVeSt,
“THE BARRIER MINER”—
Broken Hill.
Two editions daily.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Cliza bellran
Tea Rooms
[?] [?] [?]
[?] [?] [?]
[?] [?] [?]
The tote made its debut at Flemington
in such vile weather that women punters in
the members’ enclosure devoutly wished that
the V.R.C. had installed a few windows
under shelter for them. The machine nearest
to this stand is farther away than the book-
makers’ ring. In addition to soaking rain
there w T as an icy-cold breeze, and the few
optimistic women who came out in new
spring suits of lightweight materials were
glad to cover them up with macintoshes or
fur coats. Amongst those who watched the
racing were General Chauvel and his lady,
she tweed-coated; Mrs. J. S. Feehap, Mrs.
Rupert Downes, the Lauchlan Mackinnons,
the Robert Lintons (accompanied by their
niece Yvonne Linton from Sydney), Mrs.
Murray Heffernan, Mrs. Middows, Mr. and
Mrs. Bremner Lewis, Mrs. J. J. Daly and
Mrs. Curtin.
Many votes were gained for Ben Chaffey
in his candidature as King of Sport in the
Alfred Hospital’s competition by a dance
held at the Oriental Hotel on Saturday night.
Mrs. Barry Thomson and Mrs. Phil Lock,
the organisers, were assisted by Esme Alle,
Mrs. Maurice Patkin, Mrs. Young, Kathleen
Rogers Thomson and others. There were
several large parties. Many hostesses
ordered special floral decoration for their
tables and the evening gowns were smart.
Mr. and Mrs. Rogers Thomson, she in filmy
black gown; Mrs. Ben Chaffey, with Miss
McPherson ; the P. Locks and Mrs. W. Mit-
chell entertained guests. Major and Mrs.
L. B. Holliday, of Yorkshire, were guests of
Mrs. Hidgcock, with whom also were Mr.
and Mrs. T. M. Robins. The H. J. Robert-
sons and the Edgar Dyes were there. Mrs.
Barry Thomson received congratulations, the
date coinciding witli her birthday. Her mauve
and silver gown was topped with a small
cape of ermine.
The Prestige Social Club had a dance at
the Town Hall to help the candidature of
Sam McKay in the Alfred Hospital king
competition. The platform represented the
interior of an Egyptian temple. Back-
grounded by brown velvet curtains was an
immense golden sacrificial bowl with leaping
flames, surrounded by very tall fluted columns
topped each with a tapering light. Many
marble steps led up to the altar. For one
of the ballets the dancers made entrance
from the cauldron. Among guests of honor
were Mr. and Mrs. Sam McKay, she in
begonia-red georgette and lace, with coat
edged with grey fur; Mr. G. Peacock, pre-
sident of the club, and Mrs. Peacock: Mr.
and Mrs. L. Gough; Mr. and Mrs. G. G.
Foletta, she in black with shoulder spray
of tulips, and Mr. and Mrs. J. Larkin.
The A.J.A. Ball at the Rex had the flavor
of a family reunion. In brighter times St.
Kilda Town Hall used to be the scene of
these frolics, and fancy dress was indulged
in, but the glory has departed. However,
it was a jolly affair.
In place of the usual conversazione, the
Vic. Artists’ Society substituted a dance
as an annex to its annual show. Foli-
age plants and flowers gave a festive air to
the galleries, and guests were greeted by the
president, sculptor Paul Montford, and by Mrs.
Montford, who paints miniatures. The lady
wore chenille embossed velvet in pink, mauve
and pale russet tones.
The Windsor was the scene of a bridge
party attended by about 500, in aid of the
orphanages of St. Vincent de Paul and St.
Augustine. Premier Hogan’s wife, Mrs. W.
,T. McGrath and Mrs. T. J. Ryan were the
moving spirits. Mrs. Hogan’s fairness was
set off by black cire lace draperies topped
by a coat of the same with a medici collar.
Mrs. Ryan’s gown was of smoke-grey georg-
ette, and garnet-red georgette featuring pin
tucks was worn by Mrs. W. J. McGrath.
Lizette Bentwitch, in pale amber taffeta, em-
bellished with mauve tulips, sold shoulder
sprays of orchids from Mr. Nathan’s conserva-
tory. Eileen Castles, in white with some crystal
embroidery; Mollie Warden, in ivory chiffon
velvet; James Foran, the Neapolitan trio
from the Athenaeum Theatre, Romola Han-
sen, Amy Rochelle, Herbert Browne and
Gerald Massey provided interludes of enter-
tainment. Among those who shuffled cards
were Premier Hogan, Mr. Justice McTier-
nan, Major-General and Mrs. W. A. Coxen,
Councillor and Mrs. Liston and Mr. and Mrs.
M'. P. H’ansen.
St. Kilda had a day of rejoicing on Thurs-
day when the gorgeous new £50,000 baths
were officially opened. The lessees, F. J.
Carroll and Mrs. M. I. Parkes, put on a
dance in the building in the evening. The
long concrete enclosure presents a cream
front to the world. The architecture is
Oriental —all domes and archways, and terra-
cotta-colored doors. The men’s bath is said
to be the second largest enclosed seaside
area in the world —the biggest is at Black-
pool (Eng.)—being 190yds. by 65yds. The
women’s section is as long, but not so wide.
There are hot baths and fresh showers, a
gymnasium, and a massage-room. The
kiddies are provided with a playing-ground
and shallow pool, and there are platforms
for sun-bathing.
Old Collegians of the P.L.C. to the number
of about 125 met at The Wattle for their
annual dinner. Masses of Iceland poppies
and arum-lilies were used in the decorations,
with bowls of early tulips, pink daisies and
primroses, and the official table was gar-
nished with mauve stocks and sweet-peas.
The college colors were tied upon the menu
cards. The president, Mrs. E. S. Richards,
in reseda-green georgette, finely tucked, pro-
posed the toasts—“ The King” and The Col-
lege.” There were posies for Mrs. Richards
and for Mrs. W. Gray, wife of the principal.
At the top table were Janet Laing, presi-
dent of the club; Mrs. A. L. Abbott; Essie
Mollison, with crimson tulips as shoulder
spray upon her black gown; Mrs. F. F.
Fairley, Miss H. A. Thomas, Miss H. Hailes
and Anne Fortune, the last-named in pale
green—Miss Fortune is hon. sec. ot the
club, and has become a sort of permanent
secretary for the yearly dinner. Afterwards
there were bridge and some competitions tor
non-players. , , .
Robert Best’s lady launched the show ot
the Society of Women Painters at the
Athemeum Gallery and received a posy from
the president, Mrs. Tweddle. Among the
pictures is a portrait of Joseph Hislops
daughter, by Aileen Dent, who has painted
the flapper in a pale blue evening gown and
a figured coat in tints of pink. Miss Tomp-
kins and Miss Burrows show painted china
powder-boxes, trinket caskets, vases and
coffee-cups. Florence Burgess is represented
by eggshell-green cups and saucers, trimmed
with a border of crimson gum blossom.
Wearing a simple frock of pale grey and a
straw hat of pink tint, Jessie Violet, elder
daughter of the Rev. Mr. and Mrs. Egerton
Ward, of Taumaranui (M.L.), wedded on
September 26 at the Cairns Memorial
Church, East Melbourne, Malcolm James
McCallum, of Yarrawonga.
Deep ivory satin and lots of tulle figured
in the bridal array of Joyce, daughter of
the W. W. Blandfords, of Ivanhoe, when
she became Mrs. William Victor Waddell at
Scots’ Kirk. The happy man is the eldest, son
of the W. H. Waddells, of Balwyn. Patou
pink gowns, with wreaths of blue flowers
around their coiffures, were worn by the
three attendant ’maids.
The announcement of the engagement of
pretty Sylvia Elsie Lawrance, eldest daugh-
ter of Mrs. Neil Lawrance, of Kinnoull,
Heyington, and David, younger son of the
Herbert Syme couple, of Kew, caused a
flutter in younger-set circles during the week.
The replenishing of the Women’s Hospi-
tal’s linen cupboards was helped by a< musi-
cale at Menzies’ to which each invited guest
brought a parcel. Four hundred responded,
and many laundry-baskets were piled high
with the sheets, blankets and the like. The
Isaacs lady came from Canberra and received
a bouquet of pansies presented by Mrs. James
Alston, president of the hospital, whose
ensemble suit was brown with lighter-toned
millinery. Contralto Cecily Kelly and instru-
mentalists Valda Johnston and Carrie
Cairnduff contributed to the musical pro-
gramme, and Beryl and Maisie Cowper grace-
fully stepped a gavotte in period costume.
Betty Sutton and Fred Fauvel also per-
formed. ,
Mrs. Harry Emmerton launched a sale ot
work conducted by the Gentlewomen’s Aid
Society. Pianist Reg Hardinge and con-
tralto Jean Hambleton made music, and
there was some dancing by pupils of Eunice
Weston. , ,
Pauline Bindley was welcomed by the
Austral Salon with tea and music. Mrs. M.
Quinnell and the secretary, Iris Shaw, were
to the fore in the handshaking, and presented
the returned songbird with a posy of daffo-
dils and violets sporting the blue and gold
colors of the Salon. A fur coat was wrapped
about the soprano’s brown georgette and lace.
Between the chatting Mrs. Fleming Dunstan,
Beryl Soane and Mrs. George Findlay made
music.
This is
Doreen Rita
Allen, a stu-
dent of theol-
ogy at Queen’s
College, who
recently occu-
pied the pul-
pit in Wesley
Church, A
con gregation
of 3000 list-
ened to the
sermon deliv-
ered by this
slip of a girl.
It is Miss
Allen’s ambi-
tion to enter
the ministry,
and she has
been encour-
aged by the
success of her
initial effort
as a preacher.
The British Music Society gave a concert
not on its regular programme at the Lyceum
Club, at which Clive Carey and Mrs. Her-
bert Kinsey were the principal performers.
Mr. Carey, who used to be on the staff of
the Elder Con. in Adelaide, is one of the
examiners for Australia of the Associated
Board of the R.A.M. and R.C.M., London,
his colleagues being Dr. Wood and Mr.
Kinsey. His baritone was exercised on chan-
sons by Reynaldo Hahn and Faure, and
some English folk-songs, including two
arranged by the singer. Preludes by Rach-
maninoff and pieces by Ravel were played
by Mrs. Kinsey, who was billed under her
professional name of Olive Bloom. A posy
of primroses and ranunculi, which was
handed to her, blended nicely with her glis-
tening amber satin and tulle draperies. Pre-
sident Thomas Brentnall thanked the per-
formers. In the audience were the secre-
tary, Sybil Hull, in a dainty pink taffeta
frock scattered with roses in darker hue;
E. H. Prockter, his wife and trio of daugh-
ters ; Mrs. R. Vanderkelen, Mrs. J. A. Bisset
and daughter Dorothy, the Thorold Harpers
and the W. Mortills.
At the New Con. chamber music recital
Helga Brennecke manipulated her ’cello with
apparent ease, though she wore a velvet
coatee over her scarlet chiffon gown. The
programme included the Brahms quartette in
C minor, and a Schubert quintette, in which
A. Roubaudi manipulated his double bass.
Violet Somerset and Grace Evans sang, and
Mrs. Anne Macky, director of the Con.,
played accompaniments.
Twenty of the boy choristers from St.
Paul’s Cathedral entertained members of
the British Music Society. Dr. A. E. Floyd
conducted, and the lads sang two- and three-
part numbers, and proved the soundness of
their training by warbling a canzonetta at
sight. The programme included Bach’s aria
“My Heart Ever Faithful,” the trio “God Be
in My Head,” by Walford Davies, blithe-
some canzonettas by Thomas Morley, some
of Dr. Floyd’s compositions, a spring-like
trio, “O Happy Fair,” by William Shields,
and a haunting two-part lay in which music
and words were beautifully blended by Fred-
erick Delius.
Members of the Chamber Music Club
grouped themselves about tea-tables at
the Victoria to listen to' the club’s string
quartette in Schumann’s Op. 41 and the
pianoforte quintette of Cesar Franck. For
the latter work Eunice Garland was at the
piano. Basso Alan Eddy sang. In the
audience was Clive Carey, examiner for the
A.B. and E.C.M.
The King’s Theatre was occupied for a
season of three nights last week by a* bunch
of amateurs, who appeared in A. A. Milne’s
“To Have the Honor,” to help the Alfred
Hospital. Alfred W. Paxton produced the
comedy. Unusual lighting was used for the
one interior setting. Glows of amber, mauve,
rose and green caused draperies and furnish-
ings to undergo as many changes of color as
a chameleon. The ladies of the cast were
Marguerite Cockerton, Alice Smith (who
teaches the art of speaking at the Teachers’
College), Margaret Fay, Olga Johnston and
Kathleen Harewood-Lascelles.
Bets are being taken on the Mayoral elec-
tion, contested by J. J. Liston and Dr.
Gengoult Smith. Odds are in favor of
Councillor Liston, who has a nice-looking
wife to aid him if the gold chain is popped
round his neck. Dr. Smith, who has seen
war service, is a brother of Mrs. Jimmy Dyer,
the fairy godmother of musicians in this
city, who is now sojourning in Paris. He is
a bachelor.
Francie Young here pictures the basso
Alan Eddy, who was Mephistopheles in the
Uni. Corn’s recent performance of Gounod’s
“Faust.” The young singer has had prac-
t i c a 11 y_ no
vocal tuition
nor dramatic
training, but
be very cap-
ably filled the
Satanic role.
Mr. Edd y,
who is the son
of a clergy-
man, has a
big voice of
good quality.
Prior to his
appearance in
opera his ex-
perience was
confined to the
choir of St.
Paul’s Cath-
edral, varied
by broadcast-
in g engage-
ments. Tenor
Joseph Hislop
has given him many valuable hints.
A new way of exploiting the tea-leaf
reading craze has occurred to an enter-
prising cafe proprietor. The other afternoon
the Chatterer dropped into his emporium for
a cupper, expecting to find it as usual three-
parts empty. It was packed to the doors
with flappers of every age, from 17 to 60.
There were four keys to the phenomenon.
They were tall, good-looking young men
dressed in what is believed in Melbourne to
be the national costume of Arabia. Their
faces had been tanned by the sirocco of the
desert, obtainable in pots from any chemist.
Each was holding the hand of a> customer.
It was impossible to tell from a distance
whether the seers were ( 1) wrapped in a
frenzy of Oriental mysticism, (2) making a
passionate declaration of love, or (3) telling
the ladies’ fortunes.
It takes 10 members of Melb. Anglican
Synod to object to the suspension of stand-
ing orders. Archbishop Head made the dis-
covery at the synod sitting last week and
the rule was used twice effectively to block
proposals of which the assembly was not
enamored. One of the items of legislation
thus unceremoniously side-tracked was a bill
to permit the election of skirted vestry
members. Its sponsor (Dr. J. Booth) had
already had 18 tries at former sessions.
South Australia’s spasm:—
The Antique Loan Exhibition at Anchor Building,
North-terrace, has been amazing. It was opened
by his Ex., and for a week the attendance
brought in over £lOO per day, without counting the
takings at afternoon tea and supper. The committee
promptly decided to extend the season another
week, and, indeed, the show demands more than
one visit. Joan Sandford, Margaret Ashwin, Colleen
and Margaret Cudmore were photographed in four
antique costumes. An almond-green brocade lent by
Langdon Bonython was worn in the reign of Charles
I. by Katherine, wife of Colonel John Bonython.
The china is especially beautiful. The afternoon
tea, under the supervision of Mrs. R. K. Wood, is
admirably managed, and the many pretty girls
assisting are nearly run off their feet.
At the Hunt Club races at Morphettville women
came out in silk frocks and ostrich feathers, but fur
coats were welcome before the afternoon was out.
His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven were present, the
latter wearing a navy ensemble with a small navy
straw hat, and brown choker fur. Mr. E. A. Brooks
(president) and Mrs. Brooks entertained at afternoon-
tea.
Every table was booked at the bridge party in
aid of the Hackney Free Kindergarten at the beauti-
ful home of the president, Mrs. W. F. 0. Grote,
Robe-terrace, Medindie. Bright fires were in the
reception-rooms and ballroom, and there was a pro-
fusion of flowers. There is always an appeal about
a charity bridge party in a comfortable home.
The Bishop of Adelaide and Mrs. Nutter Thomas
held a garden party at Bishop’s Court. The host
and hostess received on the lawn, Mrs. Thomas in a
navy ensemble with a straw hat to match, and a
marmot stole. The guests were entertained with
music in the drawing-room. Betty Puddy, niece
of Maude Puddy at the Elder Conservatorium,
gave a pianoforte selection that showed she
has her aunt’s fine touch; and the Bishop played
his daughter Ursula’s accompaniments when she sang.
The Liberal Hall was crowded when our young
baritone Harold Tideman, whose voice has been
highly commended by Peter Dawson, gave a recital,
assisted by other artists. The stage was a mass of
pink roses and sweet-peas, and the vocalist received
an ovation. Harold is a pupil of Madame Quesnel,
of the Elder Conservatorium.
To assist the funds of the Church of England
Mission to Seamen, the P. and O. Company has
arranged for a ball on the Strathnaver when she
makes her first trip to Australia next month,
arriving at the Outer Harbor on November 6. The
same effort will be made in the other States, and
the company will not only grant the use of the
ship but donate the supper.
Westralia’s wad:—
Gold braid and be-medalled chests moved under
green and white streamers and around a palmy
tropical isle in the middle of the ballroom at the
Naval Ball in honor of H.M.A.S. Australia»
visit. It is nearly a year since a battleship had
rounded Fremantle mole, and maidenly hearts were
all of a flut. Mrs. Griffiths Bowen wore black veined
with silver; Mrs. Field Martell chose blue taffetas
and gold lace; Mrs. Gibson, in black, brought a
pink organdie-clad daughter; ivory georgettes swished
gracefully in the wake of Mrs. Athol Hobbs; Betty
Hobbs danced in blue; Mrs. Harry Vincent chose
mignonette-green satin; Miss Le Fariu wore sea-blue
georgettes; a little cape blew from Maisie Campbell’s
black taffetas; Topsy Ilyem wore an orchid gown
and sparklets in her hair; pomegranate chiffons
fashioned Helen Crammond’s beflared frock.
Brass buttons were an acquisition at the bread
and-butter hop in King’s Park pavilion in aid of
the unemployed. The party was very informal;
everyone knew everyone else and the navy liad a
great time. Pink paper petticoats garnished the
electric globules and a log Arc roared up the wide
chimney. Striking among the frocks was Delia Mac-
kenzie’s moulded white satin with its neck applique
of blue and milk-white beads; Mrs. Rex Norrie
draped herself with amber flutterings; Mrs. Fred
Vincent, Mrs. Garner and the McGibbon girls pinned
their faith to black; Doreen O’Hara’s pale pink-
frock was 'broidered with deeper pink spots; a little
basque adorned Mrs. Gordan D’Arcy's figured velvets;
Barbara Nairn’s blue lace ensemble included a little
coatee. .
Ena Cockram has become engaged to Ken Cameron,
and Helen • Beaton, of Thundelarra, has promised to
become Mrs. Ernest Eichhom.
Dr. and Mrs. Buntine had a few words for every-
one at their at-home for Hale School boys’ parents.
Meeting and entertaining a multitude of unknown
people is none too easy, and the couple acquitted
themselves with distinction. Mrs. Buntine wore a
long-sleeved ensemble of black lace. David Powell
and Harry Vowles played violin and piano solos.
The J. H. Brooking house in Palmerston-street
with its wide verandahs and two hardcourts was a
moneygetter for the Lake-street kindergarten. Thirty-
two competitors paid their shillings for the fun of
wielding a racquet and there was bridge for non-
players. Muffle Broadhurst, Lake-street’s director,
was to the fore in a brown ensemble. Dot Solomon,
Audrey Thiel and Mollie Atkins helped arrange the
tournament, and Margaret Drummond, Jean Herbert,
Barbara Haley, Mollie Hill, Mrs. Merry, Doris Good
and Jo Vincent were among the players.
There was a perfect day for the Hunt Club races
at Belmont Park. Hunt Club president Jack Durack
and his blue-clad wife welcomed Miss Northmprc,
the ex-Prime Minister and Mrs. Bruce, the Mayor
and Mayoress and a batch of brass buttons from
the Australia. Black satin fashioned Mrs. C. P.
Smith’s hat and gown; daughter Betty was an
attractive young thing in lupin-blues; Gretchen
Hardy wove furs with her deep reds and dark blues,
Moya White had a magpie outfit; Florrie Ledger
was in tweeds; Mrs. Wilson-llaifenrlen chose a
flecked black costume; Mrs. Jack Stewart topped
her black tweeds with a small hat; tall Helen Begg
wore a beige coat and hat; Mrs. Pat Tiouchet was
in fawn, and Margaret Draper favored a wine shade
for her hat, frock and lightweight coat.


FAMILY WELL-BEING
m
m
m
as?
m
m
f,
r**i
w&
m
m
m
m
To be really happy and healthy, children, even
more than adults, depend on complete and
punctual elimination of the body’s waste. A
dash of Eno’s “ Fruit Salt” in a glass of water
will ensure that all poisonous waste is dismissed
from their systems, gently, naturally and thor-
oughly. Eno contains nothing harsh or drastic
that is why it is as good for children as for
adults* And they welcome the morning glass
of Eno once they have learned what a pleasant
bubbly drink it is. Never be without
a bottle of Eno’s “Fruit Salt” in the house. It
forms no disagreeable habit and has the en-
dorsement of countless wise and healthy people
all over the world. But be sure you do get
Eno’s “Fruit Salt”.
'words Gno and "3ruit Salt” are registered trade marks. Sales Agents: SBritish Harold 3. Ritchie & Go. &4. Sydney.
An. 8
ENOS "FRUIT SAII
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Vice Squad” (Paramount), now at
Sydney Capitol, has for its theme the Ameri-
can method of pretending to suppress the
oldest profession. According to the film the
job is as rich a racket as bootlegging, but
the stox*y takes a lot of swallowing. Stephen
Lucarno, a member of a foreign embassy in
Washington (played by Paul Lukas), is in-
volved in an affray in which a detective is
killed by a society woman with whom
Lucarno was enjoying a mild park flirta-
tion. Mather, a rascally detective in charge
of the Vice Squad, promises to conceal the
identity of the murderer if Lucarno will
resign his diplomatic post and serve under
him as a spy and decoy. Lucarno for two years
plys this trade, and then in a fit of drunken
remorse attempts to' throw himself under
a train. He is saved by a girl. Girl
is arrested by Mather on a false charge.
Lucarno tells all on the witness stand to
save her, and Mather is arrested. Kay
Francis and Judith Wood, the last-named a
comparative newcomer to the screen, play
their rOles cleverly.
Faced with the “problem of finding a Story
as big as Betty Compson’s name,” Radio
Pictures put the half-hundred talkies in which
the lady has appeared into a hopper and
ground out an essentially Compsonish con-
coction labelled “Three Who Loved."
“Three Who Loved” now has the run
of the screen at Sydney Capitol. Miss
Compson opens in the mood of “Ser-
geant Grischa,” dips into “Street Girl”
in the middle, and winds up with a rapid
transition from “The Lady Refuses” to “The
Miracle Man.” The plot is a combination
of half-hinges on which doors half-turn.
Conrad Nagel, as an embezzler, creates an
illusion that the olio means something.
Robert Ames, in a Johnny part, evokes sym-
pathy which he wasn’t intended to receive.
* ¥ *
“Their Mad Moment” (Fox), at the
Regent, owes something to a novel by Elea-
nor Mercein which gives a striking picture
of life in the Pyrenees. The talkie version
is strong on the Pyrenees but weak on life.
Dorothy Mackail proposes to marry money,
but jibs at the man with the dollars and
runs away with a Basque fisherman. He
turns out to be a millionaire, after Dot has
demonstrated that love is more than lucre
in her usual engaging fashion. Her switches
from gold-diggery to romantic missishness are
a bit sudden. Warner Baxter puts a lot
of zest into his wooing, but is more like a
barber than a Basque. Zasu Pitts shines in a
minor role.
m O A »>
Each scene of Hush Money (hox), now
at Sydney Regent, is led so dehber-
ately to its easily predictable climax
that the story lags. It is a yarn about a
female crqok who goes to gaol, and decides
to lead a better life as a home-decorator,
This profession brings her and someone she
„„ c-«),„
refers to as Stooart Elliott together. She
marries Stooai t, saying nothing of her past.
The . past, of .course, crops up with black-
mailing demands, but a friendly police cap-
tain arranges for the elimination of the
blackmailer, and all ends happily for every-
one but the eliminee. Stooart is played by
Hardie Albright in the Conrad Nagel manner,
Joan Bennett as the reformed crookess is all
right so long as she doesn’t dabble in deep
emotion. Owen Moore makes a workmanlike
villain, and as a police captain Douglas Cos-
grove gives what it is to be hoped is a more
truthful picture of the type than the screen
usually purveys.
“East Lynne” hasn’t done as. well
as might have been expected as a talkie in
Australia. Certainly nothing like as well
as it used to do as a bellowdrama. The
trouble seems to be that it has been so
deodorised of sensationalism and false senti-
meutj brought so near to life, that it strikes
those whom it was designed to please as
unreal. And the highbrows are mostly
ashamed to patronise it. Yet it is a great
entertainment, The producer’s knowledge
of the period and his attention to detail are
remarkable- and I speak as a student of
Early Victonamsm. If the Fox-Movietone
peop f e started a com p e tition with prizes for
d j scoverers 0 f slips one might nominate the
i lorses . The carriage-horses don’t step high,
aren’t driven in bearing-reins and haven’t
had their tails squared; and the dogcart,
C obs are neither hogged nor docked. Also,
Conrad Nagel doesn’t know the first thing
about driving. No country squire of Eng-
land’s horse age ever sat or held his hands
like Nagel. If there were any other tech-
nical faults in the picture I couldn’t spot
them.


“EOTHEN’
PAYING GUESTS
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
L garage
Inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
n
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
COUCH S
A Simple Treatment £
That Radiates Health \
Mi
SCALP
HANDS
COM
HUB
futicitta
m
curs
MECfCINM
-jSStSsi?
STfcja*
Use the Soap every day for the
skin, also for shampooing the hair
—the Ointment as needed for
little irritations and to precede
the shampoo if there is dandruff
—the Talcum as a finishing
touch to the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment la. and 2s. Talcum la. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
JuK
m
wearu men-
listless women
dull children
take this road
to healthy energy
DO you realise that your trouble
comes largely from imperfect
elimination? Take Figsen, the
natural laxative which does not purge
or gripe and see what a difference will
be made to your health. That is the
sensible way to follow Nature’s own
road to health. Figsen is as close to
Nature in its action as human skill can
make it. No unpleasant after effects,
perfectly safe and utterly dependable.
Em
FIGSEN
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary
ment . . .
Sold only by
Chemists
ail- 1
by \
□
%
SOLID INJECTION SV
BOSCH' FUEL PUMPS |
FUU PRESSURE LUBRICATION'I
m
COS' or RUNNING ON
FUUt LOAD
ONE FARTHING
Pea MORSE POWER
PER HOUR
au. spare parts'
ALWAYS AVAILABLE
wQnoreos
ALL OVIK
THE WORLD
INVINCIBLE
HEAVY DUTY FOUR CYCLE
DIESEL ENGINES
.mo CHICAGO tIuUAA.
Invincible Marine and Industrial Engines:
2h to 100 lI.P. Benzine, Kerosene, Crude Oil.
On account of their local assembly, prices for
Invincible Engines are from 40 to 60 per cent,
below those of other makes. All Spare Parts
are always locally available.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LIMITED,
53 North George Street, Sydney, Australia;
and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
HUNDREDS OF MEN ARE
OUT PROSPECTING FOR
GOLD IN THE GOLDEN
WEST.
The Gold Bonus has stimulated the industry,
and thousands of ounces of gold are being
unearthed. The splendid figures for August are
the best since 1920 for that month, and the
total of 52,5070 z. exceeded July production by
13,7220 z. Taking August yield as a basis, it
is estimated that the full yield for 1931 will
exceed last year’s total by 100,000 oz.
THE “GOLDEN EAGLE.”
The famous “Golden Eagle” Nugget, unearthed
at Larkinvillle early this year, and weighing
11360 z., is Western Australia’s largest nugget.
August gold yield is equal to 46 “Golden
Eagles’’—every one helping Australia out of
difficulties. The prospectors and primary pro-
ducers will prove Australia’s salvation in the
present crisis and period of deflation.
The Finest Market in Australia to-day can be
reached by Advertising in the Western Aus-
tralian Owned and, Controlled Press.
Afore News and Advertisements per issue than
any other paper—THE LARGEST PAPER IN
THE STATE —with a country circulation un-
equalled and a metropolitan distribution which
exceeds the combined sale of all other Principal
Perth Weeklies.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE, Wingello House.
’Phone 84768.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland's
Entire Population.
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
3the Brisbane (lourier-
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 °Jo
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
ft ft *
J You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marieet, from:
3Che Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
85007.
Melbourne Representative:
S. MARKS, Argus Building,
and Latrobe Streets. Phone F 3906.
jondon Agent'" H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
AS WE ŚID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
They are a slow, tranquil, drowsy race
who inhabit Christchurch (M.L.), the City
of the Plains. When a man calls on his
best girl there he generally sits and gazes
at the album for a month or six weeks while
he is making up his mind what to say next,
and when he leaves he seldom looks in
again for three years. It is quite a common
thing for a person to be grown up in Christ-
church before his friends are aware that
he is born, and, as a rule, he is dead ten
years before his nearest relative hears of
it. A Christchurch citizen never loses a
train in the ordinary acceptation of the
term, but sometimes he has to burry a good
deal to catch the train that starts a fort-
night after the one he was aiming at. It
is very rarely that anything happens over
there, for any kind of event that won’t keep
is sure to go bad before it can take place,
and consequently an incident which occurred
suddenly a few weeks ago created a slight
stir. It was evening, and two fond hearts
were gathered together on a sofa. They
had arranged to be married in thirteen years
or so, and were full of blissful contentment.
The pet monkey belonging to the man next
door was sitting on the roof and combing
his ear with his hind leg, though they were
not conscious of his existence. But after
a while the cat from the end house came
roaming over the tiles, and an unpleasant-
ness arose between the two animals. It
ended badly, and in a few seconds the mon-
key started out for the chimney and for
home, but in his excite-
ment he escaped down
the wrong flue. A few
seconds later an awful
thing, all shriek and
hair and curly tail, came
scrambling and sneezing
into a grate where he
wasn’t expected, with a
cloud of soot following
him, and fell into the
fire. He came out of it
again quite suddenly,
though, and did an
affrighted spin round
the room, clutching at
the girl’s back hair as he
took a flying jump off
the small of her back
and made for the side-
board. He took nearly
a pound of the hair with
him, and its late owner
took refuge under the
sofa. Then the young
man rose solemnly and
prepared to do some-
thing in about 10 days
or a fortnight in de-
fence of his future bride.
The scared ape skimmed
along the mantelpiece,
and raked down £5
worth of ornaments, and
his enemy started after
him with the velocity of
an iron safe. By the
time he arrived at the
mantelpiece the animal
was sitting on top of a
picture at the other end
of the room, and when
the picture fell it made
more noise than a pano-
rama. Naturally enough,
this put new rapidity
into the singed quad-
ruped, and it escaped
into the interior of
the sideboard ; but when
its pursuer came up and
turned the sideboard
face downwards on the
floor to make it a pris-
oner he only reduced the
. contents to unspeakable
chaos. Nevertheless, the
youth sat holding the
capsized furniture down
with a firm hand for
three-quarters of an
hour, till his girl took
courage to come out from
under the sofa and rush gradually into her
own room to put on some more hair. Then
an affrighted wail announced that the monkey
was there also, and while the hero still held
down the overturned sideboard the animal
made its final retreat through a window
carrying her best bonnet impaled on its tail
It is characteristic of the slowness of the
slowest city on earth that even then the
infatuated youth continued to hold on to the
ruined furniture for 48 hours under a firm
conviction that he had an animal of some
kind imprisoned inside, and when he founu
his mistake he was so mortified that he went
away and is not expected to call again for
two years. In consequence of the alarm
created by this incident it has been consid-
ered advisable to postpone the wedding to
some date a little further on in the next
century. [9/8/‘9o.]
The sins of the fathers are never men-
tioned to the children.
Thomas Doolan, of. Kynetpn (Vic.), is a
plain, unpretentious individual who wasn t
intended for a hero of romance, but after
reading his case as reported at the police
court last week we consider that the Six
Hundred weren’t a patch on him. Thomas
didn’t come in with the Conqueror, nor are
his legs exhausted with the dance at Gover-
nor Hopetoun’s balls —in fact, lie isn't known
in the higher circles at all, and he hasn i
got a crest With an ash-heap rampant on it.
But the other day, when he came in after
feeding the old sow, he found his two mar-
ried daughters and another girl removing
the crockery and packing it in a cart, and
he stated in evidence that they were fond
of coming round and doing something of the
sort. In fact, he represented that they would
remove almost anything, and if left alone
they might even scratch the arable soil off
the' property and carry it away, and he
didn’t know for certain that the house itself
was safe. Thomas objected to the vanish-
ment of the crockery on the ground that he
didn’t want to take his tea out of a bucket,
and then the two married daughters seized
his whiskers in front and the other girl
fastened on to his. coat-tails behind. Mr.
Doolan says he didn’t want to hit them even
then, which shows a gentlemanly sentiment
on his part; but the circumstances were
urgent, and he knocked three of them down
four times. As they went down, however,
they clung tenaciously to his whiskers, and
when he rose again he lifted them still sus-
pended by his hair, and in the course of
the conflict Mr. Doolan became bald in spots.
Once the three ladies got Mr. Doolan down,
and they made arrangements whereby two
of them were to hold him while the third
“leathered” him, but the unhappy parent
got up and renewed the conflict. The pro-
ceedings of the girl who held Mr. Doolan by
the coat-tail are not accurately recorded,
but when Mr. Doolan was borne suddenly
backward by the vengeful onslaught of the
two married daughters it probably went hard
with her. As for the married daughters them-
selves, the ten minutes during which they
clung to their progenitor’s whiskers seems to
have been the most tempestuous period in
their lives. At last, however, the whole four
fell in a heap at the foot of the stairs and
rolled convulsively over and over on top of
each other, and then they separated and
Thomas was summoned for assault. He
appeared in a swollen and indignant state,
and furnished the above evidence, but appa-
rently the two married daughters and the
girl who clutched him in the rear had also
something to say, for the insulted and con-
cussed defendant was fined one shilling.
[l9/7/’9o.]
LEAF MUSIC.
Listen, the winds are playing
A fugue in the orchard trees.
They creep through the. boughs of apple
And linger among their leaves.
And touch with a gentler straying
Leaves over-soon decaying.
The winds come singing, singing,
Through leaves with a silken sheen.
This song is a silver treble,
With an alto note washed in.
It sounds like an apple flinging
On grass the sun is stinging.
But, oh, when winds come rushing
Through wattle when day’s at noon!
Set soft, like a mother’s murmur
Into ears when the eyelids droop.
Set low, like a bee’s hum hushing
The flowers his lips are brushing.
Oh, gleaming, dripping wattle !
The wind, when it blows through you
Is a velvet-throated singer,
And it sings to a golden tune.
All noon, when the noon-lights mottle,
I lie and listen, wattle;
And. list’ning, pass the border
Where only a child may stray,
Into the land of fairies....
The years since I went that way!
Ah, wattle! are you the warder
That guards that dim, dear border?
THE DEADBEATS LOGIC.
ME. YELLOWBOISE ( severely ): “Now, why don’t you go and
work instead of begging—have you no industry?”
Sydney Deadbeat ( argumentatively): “Of course I have no
industry. Mill 'proves that ‘lndustry is limited by
capital! I have no capital, therefore can’t have any
industry (sotto voce) —not so long as the Gov’ment
soup kitchen keeps open, anyhow.”
[Phil May. —s/3/’87.]
The wind loves warm-leaved apples,
Warm-liued in the light or shade.
The song has a deeper setting
That blows through a leafy spray
Gone red as the blood-red maples,
Or sunset sky at Naples.
But stealing through the edges
Of gums, with the curl still green,
An exquisite treble dances
And thrills to the lightest breeze.
Not Pan’s own reeds nor sedges
Ring sweet as young gums’ edges.
LOUISE MACK.
MARRIAGE.
A FABIK.
Down a long and dusty road a parched and
tired wayfarer passed beneath the rays of
the noontide sun. On either side of the road
fair vineyards lay cool and green in the
summer heat, and the clustering purple grapes
hung in profusion beneath the overhanging
leaves.
Ever and anon the wayfarer cast, longing
glances at the luscious fruit, but stern guard-
ians kept watch, and he feared to pluck lest
lie should be observed.
At last, overcome with desire, for the
juicy bunches, he approached a watcher and
humbly asked for one.
“Your request.” said the watcher, "will
be granted, but. upon one condition.
“Name it,” said the thirsty traveller.
“It is that you will bind yourself by oath
to eat a bunch every day for the remainder
of your life.” .
The wayfarer shook his head. ' 1 hanks,
no,” he said—“l have been married.’
VAN DEMON.


PATENT NOS.
272629-272763.
Of all
dealers
British Made
FIVE
for
Yb
HERE’S THE BLADE FOR YOU.
The Seven O’clock. Sharp as a
blade can be. Made with a super-
keen edge that teaches you some-
thing new about shaving comfort.
Seven O’clock —the blade that lasts
longer and shaves better than many
that cost more. Five for one shilling-
and-sixpence.
BLADES
For Gillette Razors .
DOUBLE EDGED
mm
'in
I
m
s i
.mnwwsrrt'i
Qjou MUST see
NEW ZEALAND
The Paradise of the Pacific
IT offers you the finest holiday in
the world packed with a diver-
sity of Natural wonders that is
amazing in so small a compass*
There are towering ice-clad moun-
tains, and lovely low-lands and rivers
♦ * * tropical beauty of bush and fern
** * and mountain snow sports ** *
Thermal wonders unequalled in the
world, and fishing, shooting and
mountaineering* Every moment can
be arranged for you before you start
Ask NOW for FREE booklets, literature,
fares, trips in full detail.
fasgt
v^inwmM'Wamm
TOURIST BUREAU
( AND Alt. TRAVEL AGENCIES)
Martin Place & Pitt Street,
(Opp. G.P.0.), Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
T. G. Dewar, 79 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
A Flip of Fate.
HENRY G. LAMOND'S
TALE OF A RACE MEET IRQ OUT BEYOND
C LON CURRY.
THE Western Queensland township of
Iladda prepared for the race meeting,
, -i rrn
its annual carnival. The storekeeper
got in fresh stock and signed a new' lot ot
lOU’s to serve as change for station cheques,
The publican got a supply of grog and
imported a barmaid from Cloncurry. Goats
were chivvied from under beds and veran-
(labs, rooms were swept, spiders were hunted
from dark corners, jam-tins and empty cases
were gathered and the bottles in the bar
were burnished. Iladda was ready.
The men of the district met to try their
horses in friendly rivalry, with a pound or
two on the side. Others came frankly with-
out friendship and usually as devoid of
money. Theirs was the mission to gather
where the picking was good. Joe Atkins
was among the latter. He brought his
string of three horses. Two were mere bob-
tails to serve as blinds. He pinned his
faith and tacked his money to Cherubim,
Andy Lester had been camped on the creek
for a week. He also had his string. He
advertised none of them; but though others
might go short Wantageelia always had his
full share of attention and feed.
The double-books were operating. The
bigger men were laying a hundred to five;
the middlemen were giving fifty to two
pounds ten; the smaller fry were going their
limit at a plain twenty to one. Joe pretended
to study their charts. He took as much
of Cherubim and Cherubim as his pocket
could afford, leaving a slight balance for
straight-out and Calcutta money. Consis-
tently, in every chart, Cherubim had been
coupled with Wantageelia.
“It’s some bush mug,” Joe told himself
complacently. “Wanta won a hack race at
Boulia a bit back, meetin’ stockhorse com-
pany. His owner thinks he’s got a Carbine,
But what laid him on Cherubim? He must
betook by th’ looks of th’ horse.”
During the afternoon previous to the first
day’s races Joe was standing near the track
while Cherubim was doing his final exercise.
He noted with pleasure, not unmixed with
pride, how the bay fellow stretched to his
work. H'e knew, barring accidents, the pro-
gramme was at his mercy, and hungrily
he longed for more money to stake.
“That horse gallops nicely,” a suave voice
murmured beside him. “His action reminds
me of a horse I saw running in Orange,
New 7 South, last year. His name isn't
Dotson, is it?”
“This bloke’s a maiden,” Joe replied
evenly, though his lip felt as if it was
quivering, and inside him an iceberg seemed
to have formed. “His name’s Cherubim.
That oughter be a lucky name. I heard cm
Mngin , it in church- Them’s th’ things
tliat cry cheerfully. An’ you never heard
a horse call nicer for his feed than this
bloke. You’re mistook, Mister.”
“I must be mistaken,” the other replied
mournfully. “Billy Davis had Dotson; He
w as just about your size an’ shape. Ratty
Radcliffe was ridin’ him when he got dis-
qualified. Ratty might be th’ twin brother
of th’ boy what’s ridin’ this parson’s horse
now. It’s a rummy coincidence, ain’t it,
Mister?”
In sporting parlance, Joe dropped lus
bundle. He turned to the tall man beside
him, who was hard of face and had a grim
smile playing about his clean-cut mouth,
Joe’s puny figure seemed to shrink yet
smaller, and his shifty eyes took in the whole
universe with one sweep. “No one ’ud know
him,” he pleaded. “I stained his star an’
plucked his brand. I brought him all th’ way
from Orange without showin’ him to nobody,
an’ without startin’ him nowhere. I faked
his pedigree, an’ lie’s runnin’ as a maiden,
Yon ain’t goin’ t’ squeal, are you?”
“Squeal nothing!” the big man replied
wutli a snort of contempt. “I’m a sport!
I knew this fellow as soon as I lamped him.
I’ve got him coupled in all th’ doubles with
Wantageelia. You can win th’ Flying the
first day with yours. I’ll take th’ Publican’s
Purse the second day with Wanta. That
makes tli’ double. I’ll stiffen Wanta in th’
Flying. You’ll do ditto with yours in th’
Purse. We’ll work things between us. We’ll
clean these mugs to their socks. It’s only a
flip of fate keeps men like us from rulin’ th’
world.”
“An’ where do I come in?” Joe asked
plaintively. “You’re takin’ th’ lot.”
“You’ve- got tli’ Flying,” Andy Lester
advised. “You’ve got' all th’ straight-out
bettin'. You can buy th’ Calcutta. You’re
set.”
“They mightn’t have no Calcutta,” Joe
urged.
“They’ll have one,” Andy asserted. “It’s
illegal. But nobody cares. In fact, th’
constable’s the movin’ spirit in th’ thing,
It’s goin’ to be worth near two hundred
each day. That’s enough for you. Your
fellow, bein’ a maiden, isn’t goin to go too
high.”
At the Calcutta next morning the bidding
was brisk. “The pool’s now worth a hundred
an’ twenty,” the secretary called, acting as
the auctioneer. “The next horse I have
to offer is Cherubim. What offers for
Cherubimbe
“One pound,” Joe opened at the upset
price.
“Two” a big voice boomed, and Tom
Hogarth, manager of Tippitta, came into the
biddin®-
A pound at a time the price went up till
fifteen pounds was reached. Joe dropped
out. His limit had been ten pounds. He
had hung on in the hopes of raising the
extra cash by devious means known only
to himself. ‘“At fifteen pounds Cherubim
is the secretary called once again.
“Gone" Mr Hogarth.”
Joe ‘edged his way round to the buyer
sot my horse, Mister,” l,e commenced
tentatively. ~
the a Tfto a ?^ked C '
AY hats my cut. Joe a. k -d.
Npthmg! was the prompt reply.
"I’ll scratch him,” Joe declaimed in moot
an g® r - + TJWII r> -T.TQC. tiio
IO A, Ca ? B °-. to He i-,: o T onlv hon< v ht
“Scratch him if you like. I only bought
him as a saver. I 11 win with Lovelmg
you knock Cherubim out. But I wou dn t
make too much of a song about it, it 1 weie
you,” Hogarth continued suggestively I
came through Orange last year, and
attended a meeting there! Its your move.
Go your hardest. . ,
“That’s two flips of Fate, Joe whispered
under his breath. “Andy’s one. I his big
bloke’s another. I’ve got t’ win th hlym.
There ain’t nothin’ else for it ; Its hard on
a man, though, what tries t go straight.
“Three to one bar one,” the books were
shouting on the course. “I’ll bet on th
Flying. Three to one bar one. 11l lay I H
lay. I'll lay. Cherubim? Evens that tel low.
Here, as you’re th’ owner, 111 lay you three
to two. I can’t go any further nor that
Mr. Hogarth come in an' took th’ cream ot
all th’ bettin’. I’ll lay you six to four. ’
With a spirit in which the milk of human
kindness had curdled. Joe watched the Fly-
ing. He saw Cherubim hop out well, bold
liis place all the way, and smother them for
pace coming down the straight. Loveling was
second, and well hidden in the ruck was
Wantageelia. He was too dispirited to go
and get his horse when the judge declared
him. Instead, lie wandered disconsolately
among the other men who were rubbing
down their charges. He stopped short at
Wantageelia, where Andy was drying his
horse, with that peculiar hissing breath of
a trainer. For one minute he gazed in
wonder. Then a beatific smile lit his face
and he wandered on to where Ratty was
rubbing Cherubim.
“Well,” Andy asked later, “how’d you get
on?”
“Cheerful Flat,” Joe replied briefly. “I
knew him as soon as I seen him bein’ rubbed
down.”
“Do you know any other funny stories?”
Andy asked with an even voice. “What’s
th’ joke you’re springin’ on me now?”
“I seen him runnin’ at Bourke,” Joe
continued. “I was there tli’ day he got
outed for inconsistent runnin’. You might
Jim Felsted—l am t quite s , ll0 .\ , '
Wantageelia's Cheerful Flat.
no mistake like that. Its just what jou
calls a flip of Fate, Andy. Well.' .
“If there’s any squealin' done you ll *et
outed for life,’ Andy muimuied. flow u
that suit you?” „„ « T
I been outed replied. , I
been sent out for life five times. Bu 1
always comes back. That won t hurt me.
Anyway, you am t no virgin, by th looks of
you. How d you like to be outed.
“As Peter Lestrange, th police is 100 km
for me in Sydney for robbery with violence,
Andy | u f iet Ji^tfaTryßobertsonThev're
« conflto” mm. wiTchattei a
mue f Ol . fifty quid at Rockhampton. There
are S one or'two other little incidents, and
two or three other aliases. But, barrin
months for inconsistent runnin’.
thM ’JSS’, mloS' ““ at tins
game. Now we know one another, let’s get
together. Wanta’s a moral cert, for th
s H e’d w i n j t even if your fellow was
,' He aill - t llo 7 s dead. It’s a moral,
| in th’ Calcutta. You have money
s
tO -You’ll Tviy him in tli’ Calcutta?” Joe
sneered “You’ve got him co> pled in all
d() “' bles! Where do 1 show me nose?”
“it’s no use growlin’,” Andy advised.
“your bloke’s won th’ Flying. That gives
me onc ] eg ; n tb ’ double. You can’t block
m(v w j nu j n ’ ffi 7 Purse. If you mugs can't
lo(jb a f ter yourselves I ain’t hired out as no
trained nurse.”
t he Calcutta next day the sales were
gt) j ug w i tb a sw j U g. “And I’m offered
twenty-two pounds for Cherubim,” the secre-
tary-auctioneer was calling. “Any advance
on twenty-two pounds? Going at twenty-
two pounds . Going. Gone! Mr. Hogarth.”
j oe burst through the circle of onlookers
j n evident agitation and haste. “Has my
fi orse been sold yet?” he called excitedly,
“Has Cherubim been sold? I been detained,
Has my horse been sold?”
“You’re just too late, old man,” a sym-
pathetic voice advised.
“Blast it!” Joe spat his disgust. “How’s
t iiat for luck! Who bought him? That’s
w hat I want t’ know; who bought my horse
when I wasn’t here?”
“j did.” a big and familiar voice boomed,
j oe wilted—he shrank perceptibly. “Er,
that is,” he stammered, “I’m glad for to see a
good sport like Mr. Hogarth’s got him.”
The selling continued. “And now,” the
secretary announced, “the pool’s worth a
hundred an’ eighty-seven pound ten. Tli’
last horse I have to offer is the fellow who
WO n the Hack Race at Boulia ;• the brown
gelding Wantageelia. What offers for
Wanta?”
“A quid,” Andy bid perfunctorily,
“Two,” a voice from the other side called
loudly.
Andy retired. He was used to this- game,
He knew the drawer of the horse would, on
(.Continued on ncst page.)


I
ms
fasgt
THE PATRIOT
|DIRECTjVIEDiyM^WOM^
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFIE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
LEMITE
fasgt
The Problem of Friction
The ALEMITE System of Lubrication solves the problem of
friction just as surely as Sherlock Holmes solved the prob-
lem of “The Speckled Band.” Grit, sand and dirt
in bearings cause friction and friction eventually destroys
the bearings—repair bills follow. ALEMITE Lubricant is
forced (by the Alemite Lubricating System), into the bear-
ing under pressure of 3,000 pounds. Old, worn-out grease,
sand, grit and dirt are forced out, leaving the bearing
clean, perfectly lubricated, and therefore friction free.
See that your car is Alemited every 500 miles and enjoy
smooth, noiseless driving
Cable Address:
ALMIT-Chicago
ALEMITE CORPORATION, Chicago, U. S. A.
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J.'G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd.
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd. .
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd
CORNELL LIMITED . .
Brisbane
. . . 894 Hay Street, Perth
J„ 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
. 122 Pirie Street,, Adelaide
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
LUBRICATION
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 181 T.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid‘up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
fasgt
fasgt
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER 1930 •• •• » £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAYiiJoUi. .
11 Ponrffp St Svdnev. London Offices 29 Threadneedle St.* E.C*2«
Sfß,.°ta ,'nd “«li« ii’th/Australian States, Federal Territory Jew Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory ot New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £35.
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” \sth October
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 12th November
Christmas Excursion.
Lovely Rarotonga. Another 23 days tour
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI” from Sydney, 24th December, 1931.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £45; SECOND CLASS RETURN. £34
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8393.
principle run it up to about a tenner. -Che
odds the pool offered might induce another
pound or two to be speculated. He would
wait his turn and come in later.
“And the pool’s worth near two hundred
quid, and I’m only offered a tenner for the
last horse, Wantageelia,” the secretary
announced. “Any advance on a tenner.
Going at a tenner. Any advance?"
“Eleven." Andy came into the bidding.
“Twelve,” a muffled voice called from the
other side of the ring.
“Thirteen'” Andy countered it.
“Fourteen.” The same voice accepted the
challenge. . „ ,
Andy worked round the ring to hnd the
owner of that mysterious voice. With the
bids rising at a pound a time the price had
reached twenty before Andy ended his
search. He found the caller. It was Joe!
“What’s th’ game?” he hissed out of the
south-eastern corner of his mouth, and at
the same time calling to the auctioneer:
“Twenty-one.”
“I don’t need no wet nurse for to look
after me,” Joe expelled from the north-
western orifice of his lips. “Twenty-two,”
he added as the auctioneer caught his eye.
It was a difficult job. But Andy tackled
it. He had to compromise with Joe and
keep the bidding alive at the same time. The
whole, too, had to be accomplished with
limited resources. And every time he nodded
his head or spoke it cost him a pound !
“It’s an even break, an’ we splits equal?”
Joe asked, and added to the auctioneer:
“Thirty-eight.”
“And thirty-eight pounds is all I’m offered
for Wantageelia,” the auctioneer continued
his harangue. “Is there any advance on
thirty-eight? Going at thirty-eight, and the
pool’s worth two-hundred an’ six pound ten.
Going. Gone! Joe Atkins.”
At the course three races had been run,
and the betting opened for the Purse. ‘‘Four
to one bar one,” was the cry. “Six to
one Cherry-bim. . Eight to one Loveling.
Even money Wantageelia.”
Andy was horrified. “What’s th’ meanin’
of this?” he demanded of Joe.
“I don’t want no nurse,” Joe replied airily.
“I laid off all me double money on Cherubim,
an’ I took all th’ bettin’ there was about
Wanta. I done it last night, too!”
“You fool!” Andy spat in disgust. “Why
didn’t you put him in th’ bag? Th’ books
would ha’ paid you well to stiffen him. You
could ha’ give me tli’ money then to back
Wanta. God preserve a man from mixin’ in
with a mug!”
“How much money you got?’ Joe
demanded.
“Thirty-five pound ten,” Andy replied,
startled into sudden truth.
“There’ll be no more money cornin’ in on
Wanta,” Joe advised. “He’ll stretch to
twos an’ threes then. I’ll come with you an’
see you put it all on. If we’re mates in
this * I don’t want no double-cross worked
on me.”
“Ratty knows he’s stiff?” Andy asked.
“He can ride a dead ’un?”
“Ratty’s right,” Joe replied. “If he could
ride a trier as well as what he can ride
a dead ’un, then he’d win all. th’ Melbourne
Cups in a string. They’re offerin’ twos now.
We’ll put it on an’ watch th’ start of th’
The horses came up in an unbroken line
to the starter. He took a deep breath,
raised his flag slightly, and to a stentorian
“Go!” he flapped his flag and started the
race. And even as the flag fell, Ratty, on
Cherubim, as if manoeuvring for. position,
swung his horse round and had him facing
in the opposite direction.
When that thunder of hooves and spatter
of dust came to him Cherubim pounded
wildly and faced about. He held his head
high. His eyes glared. Prom his nostrils
came a stertorous snort clarion-clear, For
a snatch of time he stood in horror, and
then he swung his head and gathered the
bit in his teeth. Fie gave one great plunge
and started in pursuit of his field. His
head was held low and outstretched, and
he gathered himself together and opened out
in great reaches like elastic suddenly re-
leased. To Joe’s horrified eyes he only
seemed to touch the ground two or three
times in the first couple of furlongs, and
then he was lost in the field.
As they turned to race along the back
Cherubim was still going in great leaps, his
head low, and Ratty leaning back in an
effort to hold him. And he was six lengths
clear in the lead and going strong! They
swung up the side, sped along it, and they
turned into the straight. Cherubim was
tiring slightly. But he still held the bit in
steel jaws, and he still commanded a lead.
He ran out wide at the turn, but with a
shake of his head he took charge again.
Half-way up the straight Ratty decided he
could not risk disqualification : he must make
a pretence to ride the horse. As soon as
ever his rider moved on him the perverse
spirit which had taken the horse left him.
He floundered. He wallowed. He rolled.
Fie pounded the earth and he climbed in his
action. The red nostrils of a brown horse
were creeping up his ribs. The post was
so near. The gain was so slow. Ratty
decided to aid. lie snatched the horse to-
gether in an effort to restrain him slightly.
And as soon as ever he felt that restraint
on him the devil took possession of Cherubim
again! He sprang like a bolt from the bow
and passed the post a length clear of the
second horse, Wantageelia!
“Fl'e could have fallen off him an’ lost
that way,” Joe complained to Andy. “Better
for him to break his neck than to break
me.”
“We might protest,” Andy advised.
“Protest nothink!” Joe grunted. “Hogarth
bought him in th’ Calcutta. Hogarth’s sorter
god about here. What he says goes.’
“Ain’t you goin’ t’ get your horse and
rub him down?” Andy asked.
“Let Ratty do it,” Joe advised. “It
might raise his muscle so’s he can hold him
next time. If that don’t do it I'll get him
a Sandow developer. How do y’ stand,
Andy?”
“Stand nothin’!” Andy contemp-
tuously. “I ain’t got a droob. I’m flat on
me back an’ burst wide open. How are you?
Your horse just won a double. You ought
t’ have th’ price of a couple of drinks.”
“Th’ price of a couple of drinks!” Joe
snorted. “Me! Why, if spits was a penny a
dozen, I couldn’t buy enough to drown’d a
fly!”
“There’s th’ judge declarin’ th’ winner,
Andy announced. “There’s, th’ books callin’
they’ll pay Cherubim. An’ here’s you an’
me, two men what knows enough to buy
an’ sell all these mugs, outed by a flip of
Fate!”
The Old Waltz.
If I appeared tyrannical,
And bound your steps to mine,
’Twas with no golden manacle;
Yours was the call divine
That, made our young, untiring limbs
In unison to sway;
Yours was the impulse that compelled,
While seeming to obey.
The Old Strauss Waltz! The one we loved,
Wshen you and I were young!
The song that echoed in our hearts,
But never reached the tongue!
It had no words; it needed none,
For every lilting bar
Held messages more intimate
Than loving speeches are.
Our dearest secret it betrayed,
And killed the cautious lies —
The coldness that could not deceive
Our confidential eyes!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.
In Ann’s Deserted Garden.
In Ann’s deserted garden the foxgloves bloom
to-day,
And to and fro across the fence the un-
trimmed branches sway;
In Ann’s deserted garden the ghost of Ann
may walk,
May bend to whisper to a bud, caress a pliant
stalk;
And I know, and the garden knows, though
nobody will tell
Why in that unkempt garden the foxgloves
bloom so well.
The brown bush rats, like balls of fur, that
through the grasses press,
Scent poison in those dainty flowers for all
their loveliness;
They sniff, but never nibble 1 , and, forging
straight ahead.
Seek delectation from the herbs that foot the
parsley bed.
In Ann’s deserted garden the painted parrots
go;
They sample many a thistle head, and, where
the clovers grow,
The black snake slips beneath the house, the
grey ’goannas come,
And never is a lifted latch to wake the little
home:
In Ann’s deserted garden the foxgloves bloom
to-day, , , .
And I know what the garden know.s, but
neither dares to say.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Lament of the Fields.
At eve I walked amid the green
Stalks springing from their roots unseen,
What time the sun his flags unfurled
In crimson conquest o’er the world.
JjO ! in the dusk there came to me
A strange earth-music eerily.
From orchard leaves and wheat-ears bent
I heard a sudden low lament.
Attuned with tearful, trembling beat
To echoes dull of marching feet,
As when a slow procession comes
With measured steps and muffled drums.
I felt a chill wind, creeping, pass
With stealthy footsteps o’er the grass
The trembling grass that sooth did wave
At noontime a]l its banners brave
As friendly herald of the sw r ard,
Proclaiming life an overlord.
Amort, at this uncommon sound,
I laid mine ear upon the ground,
That I might learn with what intent
These Voices came and what they meant;
That I might learn, and, learning, pen
Their message to the world of men.
And then, it seemed, across a drear,
Unending plain I heard in clear,
Sad numbers, falling like the sounds
Of coffin clods or drip of wounds
Or tears of women widowed long,
A world-regret, an anguish song:
We are the fields that men have tilled,
With wonder of the harvest filled ;
We are the fields that man hath won
And wedded to his lord the Him,
That we might hear, and so might be
The source of life eternally.
We are the fecund fields that feed
The mouth of man. His want and need,
From age to age, in grief or mirth,
We render to the Hon of Earth;
Though sea or mine rich treasure yields,
We are the fields , we are the fields!
From furrows and from ordered groves
We send our tithes of wine and loaves;
Our song is love, sweet peace our strum;
Jiut ever yet and yet again,
Since man’s mud rule on earth began,
Wc drink in shfliYic the blood of man,
A harvest trampled ’neaththe heel,
A vintage crushed by warring steel —
If man 'but knew our anguish when
We groan beneath the feet of men
Who long to hear the songs sublime
Of happiness and harvest-time!
We are the fields of god and God,
We arc the fields that Jesus trod—
() soul divine, O gentle breath,
0 Carpenter of Nazareth,
Mad they but listened unto Thee
We were not thus a mockery!
We were not thus compelled to fear
The springtime coming, year by year,
Lest from the womb of earth be torn
A bitter birth of war forlorn,
And all our travail prove in vain
Who long to flower and fruit again.
Their crosses mark the crowded graves
Of knights and scullions, lords and slaves.
O Lord of Love, O King of Death,
O Carpenter of Nazareth!
If they but thought, if they but knew,
How well we loved the feet of you!
And how see listened as you went
Upon your Master’s business bent.
And how we trembled when you died,
Our God of Peace, the Crucified!... .
While planting fails or harvest yields,
We are the fields, we are the fields.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BKADY.


Is Your Child
Afflicted with Worms?
Their Symptoms and Treatment
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the Bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the Nostrils,
producing- a disposition to pick the Nose,
which is characteristic of the affection.
The bowels are often disordered ; some-
times relaxed, as in Dysentery. The
appetite is exceedingly variable; in
some eases natural, in others deficient,
craving or depraved, one condition not
infrequently alternating with another.
The Abdomen is often hard, swollen and
tympanetic; the breath heavy or foetid
and tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste, and a copious flow of saliva.
Swelling of the upper lip, bleeding of
the nostrils and disposition to grind the
teeth during sleep are other characteris-
tic symptoms. The effects, however,
often extend beyond the Alimentary
Canal, and various derangements of
health are experienced in consequence,
either of the direct irritation of the
worms or of the disordered digestion
which they occasion. Among the most
common of these are nervous affections,
such as fretfulness, irritation of temper,
wakefulness or disposition to excessive
sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden starting
out of sleep asflf from fright, dizziness,
spasmodic movements of the eyelids,
temporary blindness and deafness.
General convulsions are not infrequent
in children, and symptoms strongly
resembling “Water on the Brain” have
been ascribed to worms, and have ceased
on their expulsion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubts. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to give the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will afford ample jn'oof.
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to
be in an indifferent state of health. It
becomes peevish and irritable in its
temper. Another point to which the
attention of mothers should be specially
directed is that the child is apt to start
in its sleep, its repose being in the way
of a disturbed nature.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets are a purely vegetable medicinal
preparation compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of the
worms, which:infest the intestines. They
contain specific properties which destroy
the worms, but cause no injury to the
Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared
in the form bf a confection or lolly;
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
on the contrary, inspire children to
take them as they would an ordinary
sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang-street, . Church Hill,
Sydney. Price, 4/- per packet (.0
packets 23/-, post free).
In writing, please mention The
Bulletin.
Sunburn
*5%
B
9*
L
:\J
$
£*3
The Agony of Sunburn is Best
Soothed by Mirpil Skin Balm
A sunny or windy day at the beach or inland, a game
of golf, cricket, tennis, or some other sport, or per-
haps a motor trip, frequently results in sunburn and
windburn. Be prepared for this. Keep Mirpil handy
and liberal applications will be found to afford
wonderful relief.
Mirpil is a scientifically - prepared lotion, and is
equally beneficial for Rough, Chapped and Chafed
Skins, Red Hands, as a base for powder, and
after shaving.
Obtainable from all lead-
ing Chemists, Hairdress-
ers or Stores, or from The
W.H. Comstock Co. Ltd.,
makers of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, 23 Lang
Street, Sydney. Price
2/6 per bottle, post paid.
REFUSE ALL
SUBSTITUTES
fasgt
Headache
JH. JH MATimr/r »*# anki i m n r\ c ill ucaitu
$ll Id 10 Od WICIMI
The majority of people do not realise what a "danger signal" the head-
ache is. In most cases the sick headache is the indication of Billiousness,
Constipation, or disorders of the Stomach or liver.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills do not pretend to be a headache cure, but
if the headache is caused by any of the foregoing complaints a short course
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will banish it, at the same time giving a
clean, healthy system.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
rttj&uLUtin
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GF.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
mm
0
0°
1»*
1
X *e
S 6
*0
»
VVJ**'
CO* o'
c"
.. •** <r


'iwuiuiviy
made
UNION
The
1931
FUEL
fasgtfasgt
If you are one of those drivers who think that bne kind of
motor fuel is “just about as good” as another, try this test:
Fill up with UNION WHITE FLASH. Not just two
gallons or five gallons mixed in with the old style fuel you
have been using, but a whole new tankful. Then go out
and put your car through its paces!
Pick out a steep hill where your motor used to knock
before ... and zip up in top. Step on the starter after
your car has been standing in the open for a while . . •
and see how quickly the engine snaps into action.
Different from other fuels? Decidedly one trial will con-
vince you ! Because UNION WHITE FLASH is definitely
intended to be different. It has been scientifically developed
in one of the industry’s greatest laboratories to give you
super performance at regular price. New refining processes
enter into its manufacture. New testing methods insure its
unvarying quality.
UNION WHITE FLASH is a pure product, crystal clear
in colour. It is non-detonating, gives more power and has
more true economy built into it than ordinary fuel.
Prove to your own satisfaction that there is a difference in,
motor spirits. Try just one tankful of Union \\ HITE
FLASH and you’ll speedily join the swelling ranks of
WHITE FLASH enthusiasts.
The
USE ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
. * • . ' 7 ;
ONLY Pure Paraffin Base Motor Oil that COSTS NO MORE than ordinary oil
WF. 14-62
