

I- •
:
all
PS:S!ii;
m,
■.. s ■
m
■■-..
a.aSB§
>V*;
■
'A>n
- , .
A: - o '.y >
s
-
;v-?" ,^v;'
■ ;.P
.JM
P I M
lIHIHHHi
I*4
’ V.J
Hfe,
gllllfca.
■
.
M
• t*; '1
■
•*.-
■
■
=
m
■
'
«
-"''S':
■■Hi
Hi
■
■ . a
'a
k
S
ALL AKUBRA HATS are made
k. from selected Australian Fur
—fully matured. Only from
such material can hats of AKUBRA
quality be produced. This is not
a mere statement—it is a positive
guarantee. The remarkable wear-
ing properties, the fine appearance
and the ability to retain their shapes
through long use, are directly due
to this material, handled by highly
skilled craftsmen. AKUBRAS are
obtainable in all the fashionable
shapes and colors.
HIGH QUALITY SUPER QUALITY
25 1- 30
w
The Bulletin
MuncCy, — (Paxyi 8 .
Vol. 52.—N0. 2666.
Wednesday, March 18, 1931.
Price 6d.
.Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y/Rl te for Dyipock’s Library Catalogue,
W lists on all subjects, which will
be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
imi
iiLu
This Book FREE to YOU!
. REND THIS COUPON!
STOTTS Technical Correspondence College y
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16np Illustrated Penman'suiii* Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System oj Writing, as
advertised in the'Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 331 ••••••
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
w
WORCESTERSHIRE
THE SUPPER
Host Holbrook Says:
“ Good evening
merrie gentlemen !
Your supper awaits
you.
With the lobster,
salad and cheese I have
served my Worcester-
shire Sauce. Ah !it is
indeed a delicious
relish.”
iii. ./!' iijiil/
l 1111 II!„
r/
a
Bank Something Every Week
SUCCESS in saving is not sudden. It is a
matter of persistent effort . . . regular deposits
week by week. . „ . The habit of saving soon
becomes easy . . . small amounts steadily
accumulate. . . .
Gradually you become financially secure .. . .
able to make purchases without running into
debt . . to buy useful comforts for the home . .
to clothe yourself and family better . . to meet
emergencies and to grasp opportunities.
The effort is worth while. Start to save NOWj .
Interest on Savings Accounts
4% up to £l,OOO.
Fixed Deposits of any amount
received at interest up to 51%.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
OF N.S.W.
192 Branches; 644 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
GO
<
A touch of the Start-
er and the engine
leaps into life.
SB
I
That’s the way a Dag-
enite works .. pouring
out generous power
. . . stirring the most
stubborn engine. Two
famous British battery
firms have joined all
their resources, put to-
gether all their know-
ledge to produce
DAGENITE Batteries;
now produced in
Australia.
Factory Representative: '
JOHN ARNOLD, Box 71, G.P.0., Melbourne
DAGENITE
BATTERIES
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A Scot’s Novel
Five minutes after reading Morning Tide,
by Neil M. Gunn, I tried to recall the title
and couldn’t. The reason dawned on me
when I referred again to the title-page: the
writer is a bit unhappy in his titles; those
of his two earlier books, “Hidden Doors”
and “The Grey Coast,” like the present one,
give no indication of his quality. With
some aptness his latest is published by the
Porpoise Press, Edinburgh (copy from Dy-
mocks; 6s. 6d.). The setting is a Scottish
fishing outpost; and the tang of the sea, the
fury of the storm, the silver of herring and
poached salmon, the freshness of grass and
woods, the humanness of life there are in it.
Only one realist in hundreds could have
avoided being betrayed into taking the easy
way out that tragedy looms offering at the
turn of every few pages. This writer’s shield
is a gift of humor. Mostly it is a quiet,
almost imperceptible quality, but here and
there it breaks bounds and shakes you with
gusts of laughter. The novel is slender, as
novels go these days. There is nothing of
the sweeping view of life that Priestley and
Bennett and others are offering. But there
is an intensity, a searching into the heart
of things, seldom met with in writers who
number their characters by the several score.
Morning Tide is no mere “canvas”: it is
growth of the soil.
A Non-Sniveller
Nothing like so good a novel as Morning
Tide, but one of special interest, is Cousins
German, by Oliver Madox Hueffer (Benn;
7s. 6d. net). The writer includes—wisely,
rather than necessarily—an apology for
seeming to add to the nasty wash of snivel-
and-entrails war-books poured out in the
wake of “All Quiet’s” alluring financial suc-
cess. He puts his novel forward not as
in any sense a picture of the war, but as a piece
of fiction having the war as its background. If it
contains too many decent men —on both sides —and
too few cowards, drunkards and perverts—on either
side—he can only claim that he never met such
degenerates during the vital years when he was
foot-slogging in France and Flanders.
Most of the novel was written during the
war, which may be why its author does not
attempt to translate into terms of Then the
meanwhile developed and cultivated feelings
of Now. On his way he offers this not unin-
teresting picture to hang beside the few
pretty ones that have been given to us by
Mr. Graves, by the gifted lady who wrote
those imperishable Waac books, and by
one or two others:—
At intervals the small columns of shadowy troops
marched silently past them, coming from the opposite
direction. They were so very silent —you could
not hear so much as the creaking of a shoulder
stray), only the hushed shuffle of their feet in the
dust—that there was something hypnotic about them.
Anthony felt as though he were in a dream, as
though he could never again stir hand or foot, but
must stay where he stood through all eternity,
watching in silence the silent swinging of some
measured pendulum.
“They’re the Australians coming out,” said one
of the men behind him, in a hushed voice.
“Lucky bargee,” said an answering voice.
“Tike' me ’ome to dear ol’ Blighty, do, father,
do,” quoted Private Hartigan, the humorist, lifting
his voice so that it outraged the stillness.
“Hold your blinking noise,” muttered his section
commander, and Anthony felt, rather than heard,
that the rest of the platoon agreed with him. Per-
haps they also were feeling the hypnotic suggestion
of that slow, silent, intermittent passing shadow.
Perhaps a little while in the company of
that picture might correct the impression,
largely held by Australians who were too
young to know anything about the war and
have swallowed large helpings of synthetic
gore with their pap since, that, the A.I.F. did
what it did for any old reason' except that
it was one of the finest bodies of fighting
men ever banded together on this earth.
Another of Them
It is, of course, not suggested that the war
as presented by the snivel-and-entrails
writers is all fake: all that is suggested is
that by them it is viewed out of perspective
and so presented; that many more men than
not lived as Hueffer has them living, and
felt about their life as he has them feeling.
Another of the few articulate ones was
Charles Hamilton Sorley, t selections from
whose verse have just been added to the
“Augustan Books of Poetry” (Benn; 6d.
net). He was killed in 1915, aged 20, near
Halluch. He speaks of “hiss and hate,” but
that is merely ridiculous figure of speech,
useful for eking out a line. He also has
this: —
All the hills and vales along
Earth is bursting into song,
And the singers are the chaps
Who are going to die perhaps.
O sing, inarching men,
Till the valleys ring again.
(live your gladness to earth’s keeping,
So be glad, when you are sleeping.
Which, however, is
far short of his
best., poetically.
The quality that
was in him may be
better gauged from
this closing stanza
of “The Song of the Ungirt Runners”: —
The rain is on our lips,
We do not run for prize.
But the storm the water whips
And the wave howls to the skies.
The winds arise and strike it
And scatter it like sand,
And we run because we like it
Through the broad bright land.
The other inclusions in this year’s additions
to the Augustans are Andrew Lang’s col-
laborator, Ernest Mvers, and Wilfred Gib-
son, V. Sackville-West (10 extracts from
“The Land” and some unpublished verses),
Edward John Thompson, and a sheaf of
Persian lyrics.
One Sort of Diary
Australia is not without examples to sup-
port John Drinkwater’s contention that
parody of a style so naive as that of Pepys
must fall at once into mere foolishness; that
even skill has never been able to make any
more of it than a poor little pleasantry.
Drinkwater, introducing R. M. Freeman’s
Sami. Pepys, Listener (Hutchinson; 7s. 6d.
net), says that for such a book
there could be but one possible justification, that
it should be perfect. If it were less than that it
would be intolerable. And I have no hesitation in
saying that to nie perfect it seems.
The chorus of “And So Say All of Us” should
be loud—and maybe long—in the kind.
Freeman has apparently so steeped himself
in Pepys that the manner, the style, the
nature, everything that could well be
absorbed of the original Samuel, has got into
his blood. He lives to-day—l92B-30—mostly
in London, and does most of his listening
by wireless; and the life he describes seems
precisely the sort of life Pepys would have
led could he have stepped over the cen-
turies into the London of these years. One
example must suffice to point how Pepys has
been not merely imitated but recaptured
alive
Come to tee with us, cozen Penthesilea Pepys,
the wild woman that was before the warr a burner
of churches and post offices in her zeal for getting
the voat. But Lord! Laughable how she that
did so fiercely uphold the new wenches of her own
day do now most scathingly disable the new wenches
of this, naming them for all the pert paynted little
Jezebels in the world, the way they red theyr lips,
show theyr leggs and ride pillion behind boys, with
other impudent freedoms, which, when she sees them
at it, do always make her hope they shall get
theyr empty little heads broak. So true it is of
women that the goers of one generation do ever
become the Grundvs of the next, by the inveterate
venom of all that sex of theyr youngers and prettiers.
Yet, of a truth, as any impartial! eye may see, our
new girls not one -) so badd as our new boys—the
most oyly-hayred, jazz-mad, conceited young popin-
jays that ever were in all history, I believe.
That is the way of it—the things that
matter in his age; the twist of Pep3’sian
vanity. Of its kind, as fine a thing as one
reader, at least, has ever read.
Another Sort
After Freeman’s broad humanness, E. M.
Delafield’s Diary of a Provincial Lady
(Macmillan; Roycroft; 7s. 6d. net), is pure
pastiche, very clever, somewhat forced,
Perhaps to those in the know its references
to the very, very distinguished lady novelist,
the well-known poet, Lady B. and the rest
of them might be gossipry of an order as
cutting as it is bright. To one outside the
pale it is rather like happening into some
bush town and trying to get the full flavor
out of the local “Banner’s” “They Say”
column. Still, it is pleasing enough to read;
and probably has a good chance of fash-
ionable success, with about as much chance
of surviving that as to-day’s women’s taste
in hats—if women can be said to have any
taste in hats. '
RED PAGE.
Pirates
The Pirate Wind, by Owen Rutter (Hut-
chinson; 13s. 9d.), is the story of the
rise of the Malay freebooter at the be-
ginning of last century, his decline, and his
fall with the advent of the steam-driven
warship. Intertwined in a thrilling narra-
tive is the amazing career of the Brookes,
uncle and nephew, whose descendants still
rule in Sarawak. The corsairs flourished
so recently in the seas at the back door of
Australia that the present writer knew the
second Rajah Brooke, whose expeditions
against the land strongholds of the pirates
form one of the most exciting chapters
in the book. Brooke was then entering on
a new phase of piracy suppression, the new
buccaneers being the capitalists—mainly
American—who wanted to industrialise his
beloved Dyaks.
Rutter asserts that there was little piracy
before the advent of the white man. The
Dutch monopoly of trade, which included
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Anthony Horderns’ practical expression of business idealism.
Make it a “Camping Easter
What more delightful than a run into the country or to the seaside ? What more wholesome
them a camping holiday? And what more economical?
Buy all your equipment at Anthony Horderns’ and be sure of Famous Low Prices. Notice
these typical values in Motor Tents! '
1
D
ihisßitirP
Marquee” Auto Tent, 12ft. x 12ft., £lO/17/6
Undoubtedly the best value in Australia! Recommended and guaranteed by Anthony Horderns’!
This Tent, as illustrated at left, is very roomy, and enables one to walk around in
comfort. There is a calico division which provides two distinct rooms, and the
front can be used as a verandah in fine weather by taking three poles from sides
of tent (see inset). The roof is of waterproof Birkmyre. Complete with
ropes attached, Bft. centre pole, 12 6ft. telescopic poles, and 24 small and 16
large galvanised tent pegs. Also tent and pole bags.
Size, 12ft. x 12ft., with Boz. White Duck Walls. Price £lO/17/6
Size, 15ft. x 15ft., with Boz. White Duck Walls. Price £l2/15/-
Size, 12 ft. xl2 ft., with 1 Ooz. White Duck Walls. Price £ll/15/-
Size, 15ft. x 15ft., with 1 Ooz. White Duck Walls. Price £l4/10/-
Size, 12ft. x 12ft., with 1 Ooz. Green Duck Walls. Price £ll/15/-
Size, 15ft. x 15ft., with 1 Ooz. Green Duck Walls. Price £l4/10/-
All measurements are less hems and seams. Special sizes made to order. Carriage extra on
all Auto Tents. Important.—When erecting Tent always “half-hitch” side ropes to poles.
Car Covers from 16/11 each
These covers afford protection against dust, sun and weather. No car is complete
without one. Can be used to cover the car in the garage and as a lean-to tent
when outdoors. Sizes to fit any make of car.
Quality Size 12 x 15ft. 12 x 1 Bft. 15 x 1 Bft. 15 x 20ft. 15 x 24ft. 18 x 20ft.
JX 16/11 19/9 24/- 27/- 32/6 32/6
AX 26/6 31/- 38/- 43/- 51/- 51/-
DX 35/6 42/- 52/- 57/6 69/- 69/-
TfEl
ZZ. '
7'
{Dept.—First Floor; we pay carriage on Car Covers, but not on Tents.)
The Rig'ht Arms for a Good “Bag'”!
ŵ
Winchester Rifle, 27/6
Winchester S.S. Rifle, Model 1902, to take
.22 Short, Long or Long Rifle Cartridges,
Round Barrel 1 8 inches long, weight about
31b. (115/141). Price 27/6
Automatic Ejecting Gun, 65/-
Harrington and Richardson Automatic Ejecting “Heavy Breech” Single
Barrel Gun, 32in. Finely Bored Special Steel Barrel, Full Choke, Rein-
forced Breech. A good, heavy, well-balanced Gun, suitable for trap-
shooting, Half Pistol Grip Stock. Weight about 7Jib. Price .... 6S/-
Webley & Scott Gun, £6/5/-
Webley & Scott 5.8.8. L. Semi-Hammerless Ejector
Gun, 30in. Special Steel Barrel, Choke Bored, Top
Lever Action, Nitro Proved, Walnut Stock, Half Pistol
Grip, splendidly balanced, English made throughout.
Weight about 61b. (1 15/45). Price £6/5/-
ẁ
Gun, £l2/12/-
Wm. Cashmore 12G. D.8.8.L. Top Lever Gun, Cross
Bolt Action, Steel Barrels, Left Choke, Engine Turned
Rib, well figured Walnut Stock, Horn Heel Plate,
Deeley and Edge Fore-end well finished, neatly en-
graved. Specially proved for Nitro Powders (115/98).
Price £l2/12/-
S 3
Winchester Rifle, £8
Model 53 —Extra Light Weight. Calibre .25/20, -32 or .44 Winchester.
The famous model 92 action. Solid frame. 22in. round, tapered Nickel
Steel Barrel. Half magazine. Shotgun butt, metal plate. Weight about
An extremely lightweight, strong, handsome rifle, dependable and
accurate (115/150). Price £B/-/-
Wm. Cashmore 12G. D.8.8.L, Pigeon Gun, Bar Action, Top Lever, Cross
Bolt and Side Clips, Rebounding Locks, Hammers below line of sight,
Steel Barrels, Choke Bored Chambers for 2§in. Cartridges, Flat File Cut
Rib, Dark Walnut Pistol Hand Stock, Deeley and Edge Fore-end, well
finished. Specially proved for Nitro Powders (1 15/97). Price, £l5/10/-
{Dept.—Ground Floor, George Street. These goods delivered free in City or Suburbs only.)
Our “ D.P.S.”
You can secure anything
you require from Anthony
Horderns’ without full
immediate payment. You
leave a deposit, pay the
balance in instalments to
suit yourself, and on com-
pletion of payments the
goods are delivered in the
usual way. No interest.
Anthony
Horderns’
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Limited,
Sydney.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G P.O.


ANNOUNCING THE New GOODYEAR
Heavy Duty BALLOON TYRE
Goodyear leads again with this NEW
Tyre which because of its inbuilt
Extra Strength , Extra Thickness ,
Extra VEear is eminently deserving
of the name “HEAVY DUTY”.
This is the tyre for motorists who
drive far and fast . . . and at the
same time, the tyre for motorists
who take pride in the fine appear-
ance of their automobiles
More rubber in the tread gives it
greater defence against wear and
punctures. Its massive All-Weather
Tread is broader, thicker, deeper-
cut to give more traction.
Larger in air capacity ... this sturdy
tyre is luxuriously comfortable, and
its greater air capacity enables it to
carry the weight of your car easily.
Shock-absorbing Super twist Cord . ..
gives the body of this sturdy tyre
the ability to stand up under road
shocks.
It isn’t enough to call the new.
Goodyear Heavy Duty Balloon an
extra-mileage tyre . . . it’s an extra-
style tyre as well ....
Once your motor car is shod with
them it takes a new and smarter
look; it stands proudly on a more
solid and distinctive foundation.
ẃ
C 4-5.
1669


A SUIT FOR EVERY MAN!
David Jones’ again ! By constant watchful-
ness of trading conditions and keen buying,
we keep in step with the times. By a special
purchase of high quality materials at below
to-day's Mill prices, we are able to reduce the
price of suits which were 5 gns. to only 59/61
The suits are expertly tailored —in sizes to fit
any figure. They will always retain their smart
appearance. Made from all wool worsteds,
all wool flannels in greys, fawns and browns,
also navy serges. Two and three button types'
modelled on English lines. Usually 5 gns.
NOW
59/6
jY[en’s c (o)ear JEower ground
ENew Store and
Qeorge Street
DAVID JONES
CTor Service
the ruthless destruction of the native spice
plantations, drove Chinese commerce from
the seas and compelled the bewildered in-
digene to turn to cut-throating on a whole-
sale basis as the sole remaining means of
livelihood. If the white man was respon-
sible, the Malay exacted a terrible ven-
geance. For upwards of a century the seas
between Singapore and Manila, Java and
New’ Guinea were dominated by them. They
established empires with strongly fortified
capitals. The agents of the pirate kings
actually bid for cannon and ammunition
at auctions in British Singapore. Their
great prahus, mounting many guns and
often 100 feet in length, were so constructed
that, if pursued into a wateiy blind alley,
they could simply be taken to pieces, hidden
in the jungle, and reassembled on the
departure of the enemy. Another method
of escape was to propel the vessels along
ramps of timber into the forest, sometimes
for miles, until deep water was reached
again, when the buccaneers could take to
the open sea or catch their attackers in the
rear. Against such methods the clumsy
sailing-ships of the English East India Co.
battled in vain.
During the long course of pirate history
scores of white men and women were cap-
tured, the women sold into slavery to some
half-savage potentate, the men conscripted
to the oar. The slave-drivers cracked their
whips oyer the backs of white oars-
men, as in the days of the Barbary pirates
or of ancient Rome. If the slave failed to
respond his back was cut with a kris and
salt rubbed into the wound. Finally he
was liable to be flung overboard, a bait for
the humanitarianism of the English warship
that lumbered after. One of the curious
incidents narrated by Rutter concerns a
zealous British admiral who blew a pirate
fleet to pieces and burned several pirate
villages, only to learn afterwards from the
indignant Dutch that he had administered
chastisement on one of their own native
pirate-prevention fleets.
The fleets sometimes numbered 300 ships
and carried crews, fighters and camp fol-
lowers exceeding 5000 persons. In fact,
many of the pirate kingdoms subsisted
entirely on water. So ingrained became
the habit that to-day the Bajaus, or sea
gypsies of Borneo, still roam the seas, living,
bearing their children and dying without
setting foot on land. Australian and New
Guinea aboriginals figured amongst the
slaves released by Captain Keppel, who
struck the first decisive blow at pirate
supremacy. The modern Malay Morgan
lives by stealing cocoanuts or smuggling
rubber.
It seems incredible that such conditions
could have existed up to some 70 years ago.
It doesn’t seem so incredible if one realises
that the same conditions exist to-day,
though the locality is changed. The future
historian who writes the story of the Chinese
pirates now flourishing between Hong Kong
and Shanghai will have g,n even weightier
tale to tell, in which British airmen in bomb-
ing ’planes will take the place of the Brookes
and the Captain Keppels in their new-
fangled paddle-wheel steam gunboats. The
story is being told in fragmentary fashion
in cables in the press, just as it was told
100 years ago in dispatches to the directors
of the East India Company. Modem in-
dustrialism will be the villain of the piece,
as the Dutch trade monopoly was then.
SI ANU.
Nude in Art
The Nude in Contemporary Art bv
Dumont Dunn (Beaux-Arts Melbourne') L
undistine-uisbed ' Tbe « +l’ M ® lbourn ?'> ls
n ~C § ms hed. The author has endeav-
orea to cover a vast held in 31 small
pages, and the result is mainly a catalogue
of names, most of them unknown to Aus-
tralian readers. Where Mr. Dunn who is
an art-dealer, ventures into criticism he is
platitudinous. In fact, he has an unlimited
canacitv fnr rpnentintr . ■ milieu
,5f2£ r repeating the current journal-
istic cliches, most of which are meaningless
or contradictory, lor instance, he speaks
of perfection of appearances” in referring
to Max Meldrum. As he puts the phrase
in inverted commas he presumably wants
the reader to believe that he is quoting
Meldrum was a severely
logical thinker, and it is unlikely that he
ever perpetrated such a false syllogism
unless he happened to be inebriated ’
Mr. Dunn doesn’t scruple to give advice
to painters. He tells Colin Colahan to pay
“more attention to organisation and the
subtle transition passages,” whatever that
may mean. Perhaps Mr. Dunn doesn’t
° mV Leason
[Meldrum] group, he was interested ifthe
human form, but of late his time has been
given to landscape portraiture and still-
life.” Perhaps the reason is that he has
become mnrp intpr-P«tpd ,
Decome more interested in human nature,
roe Australian section is remarkable
mainly for its omissions. In any case the
book is superfluous. There is no more
,• r 10 11 u moie
artistic justification for a work on “The
Nude in Art” than there is for one on “The
Chimneypot in Art.” Mr. Dunn attempts
to justify it by pointing out that the human
body has special problems for the artist.
From the crown of the head to the tips of the
toes each section of the body has a dominant
note—opalescent grey in the head and shouHeis
yel low' in the abdomen, thence rose and pink to the’
. ,
Ihe same variety can be found in a bowl
of geraniums
Anyhow, Mr. Dunn shows by the above
quotation that he doesn t know what he is
talking about. The abdomen may be blue,
green, puce, elephant’s breath—in fact, any
color that the light happens to throw on it.
F.S.
A Satchel of Books
The Simon Report on India (Dent; 2s. 6d.
net). This abridgment, by R. W. Brock, is
a handy summary of the inquiry which led
to the recent conference in London. It may
be conveniently epitomised thus: The Com-
missioners : “We find that you have never
been a nation, you are not a nation now,
and you probably never will be a nation.
You don’t know what democratic government
means; therefore, whatever you desire it
can’t be democratic government. The verdict
is that you be sentenced to a national and
democratic form of government.”
Isabel C. Clarke’s As the Gentle Rain
(Hutchinson; 7s. (id. net) is a fascinating
story apart from its odd and touching theme.
a child of six accidentally kills her baby
brother, and develops a complex on the sub-
ject which might have been dispelled in her
schooldays if she hadn’t spurned the advice
of her elders. The attraction of the book
lies in its fragrant atmosphere—that of a
leisured and cultivated society composed for
the most part of amiable, well-bred people
in whose lives the R.C. religion plays a
dominating part. In the spate of books about
freak sets novel-readers are apt to forget
the existence of normal societies such as this
writer depicts.
The Sea-raiders, by E. Keble Chatterton
(Hurst and Blackett; 21s. net). A well-
documented and -illustrated account of the
activities of German raiders, all except the
Emden, during the war. The writer points
out, inter alia, that as far back as six years
before the war Germany had issued instruc-
tions on war conduct to the captains of her
liners. In February, 1914, these orders were
supplemented: from then on all German
ships had to listen-in at 7 a.m., 1 p.m. and
11.10 p.m. daily for news to be transmitted
by the Norddeich station. The German
Admiralty_ also compiled a “Cruiser Hand-
book,” giving a list of secret rendezvous, to
which liners could go to be fitted with guns.
lon L. Idriess’s Prospecting for Gold
(Angus and Robertson; 55.) has struck an
eager market. It has been only a few weeks
on the bookstalls and already a second
edition has been called for. As to where
gold might be found, the writer commits
himself no further than to advise prospective
hunters to apply to the nearest Department
of Mines, for which he wins the respect and
applause of F. S. Mamce, N.S.W. Under-
secretary for Mines, who gives the book an
introduction. For the rest, Idriess, a Bulle-
tin contributor even when he’s out on the
gold hunt himself, yarns away as one pro-
spector to another, in language that nobody,
from the raw r est newchum to Judge Curlewis,
should find beyond him.
In John G. Brandon’s Th’ Big City
(Methuen; 7s. 6d. net) Dago gangsters from
Chi’ compete in villainy with British race-
course “boys” of Hebrew origin, and both
sets of malefactors occasionally halt in their
nefarious operations to gasp with admiration
at Brian Devereaux. Meet Brian, the mil-
lionaire from Aussie:—
He’s a long-legged, loose-limbed kid of about six-
one or -two on his bare heels, his skin is tanned
like a bit of mahogany, and the tab-hanger of his
coat has Farmers, Sydney, on it.
This young man, who has a heart of gold
and a punch like a battering-ram, drifts
about the West End of London stunning
people who annety him or make advances
to good and beautiful women, and teams up
with the right girl. The story is told with
such honest gusto that it goes against the
grain to be obliged to mention that the
grammar is often shaky, and that the charac-
ters are as stereotyped in their unreality as
those of one of the earlier underworld talkies.
King's Treasuries. With the Temple
Classics, Everyman’s and these King’s
Treasuries, Dent and Sons have built up
three small-book “libraries” beside which
most opposition efforts are weak. Literature
—usually well tested—is the basis of all
the Dent series; most of the others have a
strong watering of -mere reprints of cur-
rent or near-current favorites. Latest addi-
tions to the King’s are the children’s books,
“Robin Hood and Other Tales of Old Eng-
land,” “Junior Short Stories” (ancient and
modern, including Walter de la Mare, Wells,
Kenneth Grahame and “Q” among the
authors), and Giuseppe Fanciulli’s “The
Little Blue Man.” Two others are “The
Vicar of Wakefield” and Stevenson’s “The
Black Arrow.” Price, Is. 4d. net.
♦
Gilbert Mant (London): Lately Edgar
Wallace undertook to answer a questionnaire
for me. Amongst other things, I asked him
whether he wrote everything that appeared
under his name. Edgar’s reply was: “Dear Mr.
Mant, your question is too flippant. I
thought you wanted a serious interview.”
I stand reprimanded; and I’m still wonder-
ing what the answer is.
“M.L.C.”: The second Bulletin Novel
Competition is having its turn now. Of
Vance Palmer’s “The Passage” “John o’
London’s” has this to say, among other
eulogistic remarks: —
Mr. Palmer is a first-rate novelist. He gets, it
seems by nature, exactly the right proportions be-
tween setting and character. His portraits of women
are as sound and clear-cut as those of his men....
“The Passage,” for honest work and pleasant variety
of person, for its sense of a strange place, and for
its robust philosophy, has given me more pleasure
than most novels of to-day.
“1.L.”: “C.” (B. 11/2/’3l) was right in
stating that David Low’s collaborator in
“Lions and Lambs” was Rebecca West. In
“The Best of Low” the drawings are accom-
panied by notes written by the artist him-
self. I cannot remember now when and where
it was first revealed that Lynx was Rebecca
West, but it had certainly been stated, and
not denied, in English reviews before “De-
siderata” gave the news, quite accurately
in Australia. ’
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submittedj
ana no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.T.M.: Sorry, can’t undertake to acknow-
ledge pars. Must keep room for a bit besides....
Res. D.: Try it on Sophie.,. .J.L.: “The Uninvited
Guest’* gently guided to the door C.E.8.L.:
Suggests Burns in metre, but (alas!) not otherwise.
. ...M.E.0.: “Hogan’s Brindle Cow” found dry....
Austral: No fancy here for abrupt unrhymed ends.
They come like left hooks to the ear J.R.: “The
Hermit’s End” not colorful enough.... J. Crow:
The more than friendly letter made even the Reli-
gious Editor blush. Verse hasn’t quite the ring needed
to carry it as a song.... V.G.W.: You start off with
an idea, but you leave it at the first crossroads....
R.W. J.: That topic was worn out some months ago.
■.. .L.McL.: No doubt the Macquarie waters do sing,
but you don’t convey much of their song... .Nero:
Not very... .M.J.: You take too long to get going.
.... C.0.P.: Don’t care for those samples. Much
better stuff in the book P.A.T.: That form calls
for a variation of thought in every line; good
examples are rare because so many who attempt it
think it’s easy.... A.E.L.: Would be—possibly has
been—better stated in prose Hugh E.: “The
Sporting Parson” was knocked cold in the second
innings, leaving the score one down and none to
pay. ...A.K.: “Contrast” is not much like a trio-
let—if it’s meant to be one Bellerive: Here’s to
the mighty deep:—
ABOARD A TRAMP SHIP.
Aboard a tramp ship,
Nearing Cape Horn,
Dark night is over—
Bleak break the morn.
Know time to loiter
A long way to sail.
Headwinds refreshing
Into a gale.
Bullying Captain, all
Hands at work.
Lord help the sailor—
Who venture to shirk.
Aboard a tramp ship
Nearing Cape Horn.
Rolling and buffeted,
’Tis a boisterous morn.
{Next week: “Miss Nellie Stewart.”')
T.McG.: Reads like notes for a job yet to be
done. . . .Pakiti: Glimpses of humor in them, but
topics uninteresting. And please don’t write on
both sides of the paper—it makes even the Scotch
comps, wild. .. .E.R.: It takes a wonderfully good
poet to get away with that sort of moralising...,
Ground F.: Orchard piece:—
The peaches growing in my garden,
Never ripen, only harden.
All their taste is very bitter,
And they make an awful litter.
I will dig them up this autumn,
Very sorry I ever bought them.
••••!■ Hyatt: Alleged quotation from The B. is
not from The B. at all. On the contrary, a. score
of times The B. has said that reduction of nominal
wages does not involve lowering the standard of
living... .A.W.: So Victor Daley’s bailiff is still
worrying that Bohemian? K.R.: Not the shop
for it... .H.L.: Whips of adjectives but no story....
8.M.5.: Gave it up when the fifth “evil smile dis-
torted Ravensworth’s sinister countenance”... .J.A.H.:
Lifeless. .. .H.G.G.: Compare your crude yarn with
Gerald Bullett’s “Summer’s End,” which has much
the same p10t... .E.J.0.: Mere buffoonery. .. .C.M.P.:
In the financial world business is not conducted
like that... .F.C.F.: Weak imitation of Wodehouse.
. ...L.W.J.: Tired of mere descriptions of bush
weddings, funerals, christenings and dances P. 11.:
That’s the 27th variation of the poisoned-damper
plot this year A.S.R.: A bit too thick N.C.:
Not interested in the lounge-lizard’s harem.. . .R. 11.:
Unskilful... .A.S.: It doesn’t attract... .E.F.: Neat
little plots but no punch... .M.H.: Judges must have
been in a generous mood when they praised that.
. ...T.P.: A lean and hungry yarn... .W.S.S.: Dull
butchery... .M..1.M.: It lacks power.... V.H.P.:
Flapperish. .. .G.N.: It was an awful experience,
and so was reading it....F.L.: Off our track....
E. 8.: Try a Brisbane daily. .. .A.F.: Crashed
D. : That district has been put on the literary
map....F.A.: Liked it, but it’s not in our line....
Wobble: Just the word for it....H.Y.: Doesn’t suit.
Chief fault otherwise is that you’re too intent on
wanting to say something to say something.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.H.: Brush up your knowledge of foreshortening.
. ...K.U.F.: You sweep lines aimlessly over the
paper... .G.N.: No berth here for tattooed tar....
W.R.H.: Fire-extinguisher gag was scrapped years
ago. .. .H.J.8.: Undistinguished. .. .C.H.M.: You pay
too much attention to your friends.,. .G.G.8.: About
as bad as it could be H.L.: Still below the
mark... .L.0.K.: Within striking distance. .. .M.C.:
Figures squat about like so many wooden toys....
E. : Some stuff in the sketches, but the jokes
are stale... .H.A.: Labored trifles.... M.A.W.J.:
Picturesque, but we don’t buy pen studies of scenic
resorts... .L.N.C.: Youth has an idea of composition
but is inclined to be straggly. .. .L.F.J.: Timidity
is your bane. Let yourself go a bit....N.5.:
Chiefly notable for its disregard of the laws of
perspective. .. .R.E.F.: Wasn’t worth patching up.
W.J.T.: You haven’t the ghost of an idea of
what we want... .T.M.: Woodcarter is as stiff as
the material he carts about A.S.R.: Don't like
your charladies.


w
ŵ
%
V -
1
I
\ A
mm
a
■
S': : .
■sS:;'"
fg:
&
hWSL
■
h- i
■
1
:;
-s'-/:
B
-
■iK2i ! ' -
r
m
mom
m
■ .
4s
n
~ .
S *~
»
■
mam
m
-d
11
■ B
;
H
1
■
m '. >.l
c9j/wu/c/know ~ and7 f /o /


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2666.
March 18, 1931.
WAR DEBTS.
"Britain reduced Italy's war debt from 610 to 275 millions, and gave France a very low rate of interest with long terms of payment. The Australian debt was not
reduced; payment is to be made in 35 years at 6 per cent. p.a. (£4 18s. 4d. per cent. interest and £1 1s. 8d. sinking fund)."
"Dad, I know didn't mean to hurt us: but you did a lot more for those chaps than you did for us."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21b George street. Sydney;
Box 20218 11; ’Phone 111911.
Victoria: lll r 2o Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Wkstralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 0195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months. Is.
To any address Ovurseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 10s. fid. ; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: Scl. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE—HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . .. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY PERCIYAL .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CARTOON BY LEASON 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. . . .. 13
•‘'WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . 18
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER? .. ..19
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) ... 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . .. 27
SERIAL—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole . . 28, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) 30, 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 32
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . 32, 34
SHADOW SHOWS 35
SAID BEFORE (drawing by G. R. Ashton) . . 36
COMPLETE STORY-r-
-“OLD GEORGE,” by Walter E. Wynne 37, 38
VERSE—By Duleie Dearaer, E. J. Brady.. .. 38
OUR DEBTS TO BRITAIN.
Wh must be careful not to be turned aside
from this. Because Lang has tackled the
question in a wrong way and apparently a
deliberately offensive way, it does not fol-
low that the question of our public debt
should not be tackled at all. Again and
again in the past 12 months The Bulletin
has said that there is room here for nego-
tiation, not only with regard to the small
part of the debt which we owe to the
British Government, but to the much larger
part which we owe to private individuals
overseas.
It is true, as Lang and Beasley and others
have been saying, that Britain remitted a
part of the Allies’ debts. Italy’s debt, amount-
ing to just over 610 millions, principal and
compound interest, was reduced to 275 mil-
lions; and on France’s debt the interest was
reduced and very easy terms of payment
granted. Australia was forgiven none of
its debt; nothing was abated; and on an
arrangement being come to, it was asked
and agreed to pay off its total of 92 mil-
lions in 35 years by annual instalments of
6 per cent. (£4 18s. 4d. interest and £1 Is. Bd.
sinking fund). Now it is demanded from a
hundred soapboxes why Britain should have
treated these foreigners so much t more
generously than it is treating its own flesh
and blood.
W'e may, at any rate, rid our mind of any
suspicion that Britannia did it because she
loved France and Italy better than she
loved us. The plain truth is that she did
it because she loved herself best of all. The
fundamental fact with regard to all debts
between nations is that there is only one
thing in which they can be paid—gold. But
because few nations have enough gold to
pay their foreign debts, goods take the
place of gold; they are exported and con-
verted into gold, and so the debt is paid.
Now, after the war, Britain found itself
with a great many unemployed, and there-
fore in great need to reorganise and speed
up its industries and increase its export of
manufactured goods, because most of its
manufacturing industries depend upon
export markets. Also after the war Britain
and the United States found that Italy and
France owed them 2300 millions; and there
were German war reparations in addition.
The debtor countries had no gold. They
could therefore pay only in goods—almost
wholly manufactured goods. And, as we
have seen, Britain was eager to reorganise
its own industries and absorb its own un-
employed. It knew what happened to Ger-
many and France after the Franco-Prussian
war: France, ordered to pay more than 200
millions, speeded up its industries, cut down
its wages and its costs and built up its
industries as they had never been built
before; while Germany, hit by a new com-
petitor working under stress, was cast into
such an industrial depression that old Bis-
marck growled that, next time, he would
takp good care to see that Germany paid
the indemnity!
Britain loved neither France nor Italy;
it .had to save its own people; it had to
find them employment; and it found them
employment by throwing overboard a vast
amount of this foreign debt, and extending
•na.vments for the balance so that the debtors
would not be forced to rush manufactured
goods on to the markets of the world.
When, however, Britain came to consider
Australia’s debt, no such considerations
arose. Australia was not a competitor in
the manufacturing field. It was a supplier
of raw materials, and the more it had to pay
the more of very necessary raw materials
Britain would get—to the advantage of its
workers. It may be that no representa-
tions were made to Britain in support of a
reduction of the bill; and there were no
circumstances which would urge Britain to
reduce the total on its own initiative and
for its own good.
The position now is veiy different. Un-
like Italy and France, we formerly did not
ask because we did not believe there was
urgent need to ask. But the cumulative
blows that have fallen upon us have been
too heavy; and Britain could do more to
re-establish itself in Australia’s affections
by a voluntary offer of remission than by
anything else that has been done in this
generation.
That, however, could amount to only
about 80 millions of debt held by the British
Government. Any concessions covering the
other 520 millions must be a matter of
negotiation with the individual holders. In
favor of a rearrangement a strong case can
be made out: it might even be possible to
arrange a great funding scheme based on
the average prices of wool and wheat, or on
the English cost-of-living figures; the latter
would guarantee the holder a rate of
interest of fixed value, instead of a rate
varying in value with the vagaries of the
commodity markets. But the first essential
for any successful scheme is the restoration
of confidence.
TOO MANY SACRIFICES ALREADY.
Ever since this financial and industrial
crisis reached us 18 months ago we have
been talking about sacrifices. That the com-
munity must give up something was inevit-
able. We had been living about 40 millions
a year beyond our means; this was the aver-
age of our borrowings abroad. To that
extent we had now to go short of things
we had previously enjoyed without paying
for them. On top of that there was the tre-
mendous fall in the value of the staples
with which we pay our interest. There
was no question, then, about the necessity
for sacrifices. But a doubt arises whether
we have not been laying too much stress
on the sacrifices that have to be made and
too little on those that are unnecessary and
can be avoided.
The position now is that something be-
tween 200,000 and 300,000 of our people are
unemployed, and, even with the help of the
Government, are living in poverty; and
many thousands more—probably quite as
large an army—though not actually unem-
ployed, are struggling with debt and cutting
down their living expenses to the bone. The
question is whether the failure of the Fed-
eral Government and of most of the State
Governments to deal resolutely with the
situation has not called for greater sacri-
fices from the community than would have
followed from the most thorough-going
scheme of economy ever put forward.
Until we realise what were the causes
of our trouble we cannot hope to make
any sure progress out of it. To begin with,
there was the sudden stoppage of loans,
which had maintained a large number of
men on construction works. Obviously the
first thing necessary was to reabsorb these
men into industry. Now, what have we
done towards that? There certainly have
been large increases in protective duties, and
these might have led to increased activity
in factories. Instead, factory output has
wilted in nine cases out of ten, because most
of the people have not the money for any-
thing but the most slender purchases, and
the others are too uncertain of the future
to spend what they have got. Yet here are
hundreds of thousands, of potential buyers
of goods which they cannot buy simply
because they are not making or producing
them. There may be other reasons why they
are not making or producing them, but the
most obvious is that those who might em-
ploy them can see no profit in the business.
The simplest case is that of the farmer of
sheep or wheat. There is a market for his
goods; but the price is so low that, notwith-
standing the help he is getting from the
premium on exchange, he cannot afford to
hire labor. In this case it is not generally
the farm-laborer who is highly paid: it is
the burden of other expenses he has to
carry which is crushing him. Among those
expenses are interest, rail freights and tax-
ation. Now, why are those charges so bur-
densome? The banks lend other people’s
money, so the rates for advances are gov-
erned by the rates for deposits, and the rates
for deposits are high because Governments
are competing greedily for the public’s
money. Their credit being poor, they offer
high rates; and their credit is poor and their
necessities are great because they have
with very few exceptions resisted every
kind of pressure put upon them to econo-
mise. Partly for the same reason freights
are excessive, and wholly for the same
reason taxation is burdensome.
The reply of one group of politicians is
that, as high wages mean prosperity, there-
fore nothing is to be gained by reducing
wages. Within limits, that is true. But
prosperity in Australia depends less upon
high wages in Australia than upon prosperity
in other countries; and it is our misfortune
that unemployment in many other countries
has lately been enormous, and wages low.
It does not matter for the moment what
has caused the fall in foreign prices: the
cardinal fact is that they have fallen.
Taking the price-level of all commodities
for 1927 as a basis (100), the “Economist”
shows that the index figure in Britain at
the end of 1928 was 95, at the end of 1929
88, at the end of 1930 68, and in January
of this year 66. If we were self-contained
and had no foreign debts, the price-levels
of other countries would not matter a
straw to us. But Mr. Lang sees half the
truth, at any rate. So long as we have
foreign debts, so long is it impossible for
our wages not to be influenced if not gov-
erned by foreign price-levels.
Thus far we have merely attempted to
dodge that inescapable fact. We are doing
it with sugar by an arrangement which
about doubles the cost of the article at
home in order that we may sell our surplus
at the market price abroad. We are doing
much the same with butter. To the wheat-
grower we propose to give a direct subsidy,
and we are already giving one to the gold-
producer. And lately by another process
we have been giving a bonus of no less
than 30 per cent, to exporters of all pro-
ducts. It may be admitted at once that
under present conditions bonuses or sub-
sidies are necessary to enable some at least
of these producers to sell their goods in
foreign markets. But every such subsidy or
bonus given in one industry makes it more
difficult for every other industry to carry
on and for any new industry to start, and
so the absorption of the unemployed is han-
dicapped. Industrially and financially we are
moving in a vicious circle. First, high
wages are maintained in a few industries
and economies are turned down in the
public service and elsewhere; that puts up
costs so high that industries which have
to sell abroad have to get bonuses and sub-
sidies in order to carry on; these bonuses
and subsidies in their turn help to put up
the cost of other industries so high that
their selling prices are excessive; this affects
the cost of producing for export, and makes
a demand for more bonuses and subsidies;
and so we build up the crazy structure of
our industrial life. Instead of avoiding
sacrifices, we are imposing them upon hun-
dreds of thousands of people, and all to no
good purpose.
If we had no overseas bills to pay it would
not matter how high we put our costs. But
in our present circumstances we have either
to repudiate our foreign debt and do with-
out foreign goods (which means shutting
up many of our own factories for lack of
raw material) or cut our expenses. Cutting
expenses does not necessarily involve re-
ducing the standard of living. It means,
rather, the reduction of that army of non-
producers who are crushing the producers;
and foremost in that army is the over-
crowded public service, frequently overpaid.
It is because these people are being shel-
tered that tens of thousands of others are
being called upon to make harrowing sacri-
fices.
The point has now been reached when the
vast body in Australia who are making
sacrifices should ask where it is all leading.
What is Australia gaining by their dis-
tresses? Why should they who for the
most part normally are producers of one
sort and another—why should they suffer
so much while the great army of public
servants is practically untouched? To what
extent labor must suffer depends almost
wholly upon the number of non-producers
which production has to support. Labor’s
present main object in life ought therefore
to be to reduce this burden.
To be quite frank, nobody has given the
parasitic class so much encouragement as
the worker during the past few years: he
has surrounded himself by hordes of officials
of one sort and another, and has piled up
leagues and conferences and federations, and
arbitration courts and industrial tribunals
and such like—for all of which industry has
to pay. “All in your interests,” say these
hangers-on glibly; but the two or three
hundred thousand idle men and women in
Australia may well ask what they have got
out of it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Banks’ Responsibilities.
For the first eight months of this financial
year the Commonwealth Government re-
ported a deficit of £13,409,000 and the N. S.
Wales Government a deficit of £6,826,000.
The ensuing four months may give better
results; but the year will end with huge
shortages in both the Commonwealth and
the senior State.
There seems to be an idea abroad that
Australia can have a deficit just as it
can have a drought; that the thing just
happens. You go on, and if at the end of
the year the figures on one side of a book
don’t balance those on the other side—
well, then, you’ve got a deficit, and there is
no use worrying about it.
Unfortunately this isn’t a question of
balancing books. It is a question of pay-
ing the butcher and the baker and the
grocer; it is a question of paying the police-
man his wages and buying coal to keep the
trains going. In prosperous times it does
not greatly matter to Mrs. Jones, wife of
John Jones, engineer, whether John’s wages
for the week will pay all the week’s bills.
The tradesmen know the Joneses, and if
Mrs. Jones is a bit short, she can have
credit. In other words, it does not then
matter much whether Mrs. Jones can
balance her budget or not. But it matters
enormously when her credit is gone. Then
she simply has to do without what she can’t
pay for. You can have deficits only as long
as you have credit. When your credit is
exhausted, you cannot have a deficit—
you have to do without things.
This is the position we have reached.
Rather than do without things thus far we
have got credit wherever we could. In short
loans of various sorts here and in London
we now owe over 50 millions. We have
lately come at our banks for over 30 mil-
lions and squeezed them almost dry.
Actually in N. S. Wales the Government is
issuing orders on grocers, bakers and
butchers which the traders find it so hard
to get cash for at the Treasury that they
are using them as currency, often at a heavy
discount.
The climax is very near. The question is
whether the great financial institutions of
the country—the Commonwealth Bank, the
Savings Banks, the great trading banks, the
insurance offices, holding millions of the
people’s savings—are going to allow it to
arrive without coming together and telling
the Governments plainly that the advances
which alone make, deficits possible are at
an end.
The time has come when these institu-
tions must realise that they and they alone
are making it possible for Governments to
avoid balancing their budgets.
«
“Dead from the Chin Up.”
One of the dull men of one of the duller
Cabinets told a meeting at East Sydney
the other day that the working man who
expected any help from the employer was
dead from the chin up. Probably the man
didn’t believe a word of it; in political life
sincerity has been so habitually sacrificed
that it hardly exists any more. Still,
whether the man believed it or not is of
little consequence; what are the facts?
The condition of the worker has been
enormously improved during the past hun-
dred years; and the improvement has been
progressive. During this period the workers’
unions have come into being and have
been increasingly militant; and the easy
conclusion has been drawn that the improve-
ment has been due to the arrival of labor
unions and the progressive improvement to
their increasing militancy.
Many men still living can recall the con-
ditions of 50 years ago. The Australian
agricultural laborer at that time received
3s. to 3s. 6d. per day in ordinary times, and
4s. to ss. at harvest. The hours were from
seven till six and as often from six till
seven. And the farmer, the employer, was,
as a rule, so poor that it was a struggle
for him to pa}'’ even the miserable wage of
the period. From this fact the obvious
conclusion is that the farmer did not pay
more because he couldn’t, and a thousand
trade unions would not have improved the
farm laborer’s condition to any extent worth
mentioning.
In manufacturing industry the improve-
ments in wages and conditions have been
much more marked than they have been
in agriculture; and in all branches of min-
ing they have been very striking. The
history of Broken Hill—the district repre-
sented by the dull member of a dull Cabinet
before mentioned—is typical of that of
most industrial-metal fields. At the out-
set the only ore which it paid to put
through the smelters averaged 30 per cent,
lead and 30oz. silver. Soon the rich surface
deposits were worked out. Then came poor
ores, with the terror always ahead of the
inhabitants that some day the zinc in the
bottom would make smelting impossible.
The cos. brought men from all parts of
the earth to wrestle with the problem. They
provided capital for experiment. Plant after
plant was built—and scrapped. A dozen
deaths the Hill should have died; and
there are still 25,000 people at Broken Hill
—20,000 or so of them looking to the
employer and his chemist and his engineer
to make such other changes in the pro-
cesses of extraction that 12 per cent, ol
lead and soz. of silver will pay at prices
less than one half of what they were when
operations began on 30 per cent, lead and
30oz. silver 45 years ago!
Looking back over a century’s history ot
mining in England the author of the monu-
mental work “Coal and Its Conflicts ’ a
man entirely sympathetic with the miners—
makes the astonishing confession of his
belief that they have not got through their
unions a single thing they would not have
got without them. We need not go that
far The unions have done work of the
utmost value for their members and the
world; but in almost every case it has been
through forcing the employers to get bus)
and make technical improvements and
improvements in management. Withou
the employer, the trade union and the Par-
liamentary Labor party, being unable o
create any wealth whatever for any put-
pose whatever, would be poor, helpless
things so far as improvements m wage an
industrial conditions are concerned
At one time, it is true, the world believed
it could do without this employer. it
believed that public ownership would give
us all the advantages an employer could
bring, without any of the defects and dis-
advantages. It is not the least of the sin
of the Labor politicians of this past genera-
tion that faith in that comfortable doctrine
has been completely shattered.


The Pensions Bill.
The Commonwealth’s highly-capable Audi-
tor-General has been reviewing the expendi-
ture on old-age and invalid pensions, war
pensions and maternity allowances. He
points out that it has reached £20,000,000,
approximately one-third of the entire
revenue, apart from business undertakings,
and expresses the very decided opinion that
in the present state of the country it is a
burden too great to be borne.
Mr. Cerutty gives some staggering
examples of war-pension applications
granted by the Bruce-Page appeal boards
(they alone cost £23,000 last year), after
rejection by the Repatriation doctors. The
widow of a soldier who died in October,
1923, from the effects of a fall of earth in
a clay pit, was granted 84s. per fortnight,
“100 per cent, rates” for her five children
and arrears amounting to £336 Is. sd. An
ex-warrior, discharged as fit in 1919 and said
to have sclerosis now, was “admitted to
second-schedule rate [l6os. per fortnight]”
and awarded arrears amounting to £lO5O
9s. 3d. In a third case, that of a man who
did not see a shot fired, who was discharged
fit, who followed his pre-war occupation for
years afterwards and married in 1928, the
considerations granted, in spite of the Repat.
medical officers, were £4 a week for himself,
£1 a week for an attendant, £lO a month for
a car, railway and tramway passes, an
invalid chair, surgical boots and arrears
amounting to £159 12s. The Auditor-General
thinks also that pensions should not be
allowed to the wives and children of post-
war marriages. As the law stands, if a pen-
sioned war-baby of 1918 marries in 1948 or
1958, his wife will be entitled to a pension,
and so will any and every child of the
union. Mr. Cerutty, however, rightly re-
marks that “few will take exception to the
rates of pension provided for those who
suffer genuine war disabilities.” In many
cases, indeed, we have been illiberal with
them because we have been so prodigal
with others.
Old-age and invalid pensions cost a great
deal more than war pensions. On June
30 last the annual liability was reckoned
at £10,910,796 in the one case and £7,762,508
in the other; and claims for old-age pen-
sions are coming in at such a rate that the
Auditor-General estimates this year’s outlay
at £11,650,000. In Britain, on the other hand,
Great War pensions expenditure last year
amounted to £53,743,500, and contributory
old-age pensions expenditure to £36,536,000.
Tn the boom years the Bruce-Pages raised
the maximum rate of pension from 15s. to
17s. 6d. a week, and then to £1 a week. It
will have to come down; this handful of
people, with hundreds of thousands of un-
employed and an annual deficit approaching
£30,000,000, cannot afford to pay yearly
£12,000,000 in old-age and invalid pensions;
still less can it afford the loss of moral
stamina expressed in the startling state-
ment that “two-fifths of the women over
60 and of the men over 65 are in receipt of
old-age pensions.” With the fall in rents
and the prices of necessaries (it could be
accelerated as regards prices by the lighten-
ing of the sales tax), a reduction in propor-
tion to the fall in prices would inflict no
hardship whatever. At the same time
thousands of sons and daughters in com-
fortable circumstances could and should be
asked to fulfil the sacred obligation which
they have meanly thrust on the nation.
• $
The Ad.-man.
The Ad.-men’s Convention, held in Sydney,
was one of the national events of last week.
Times have changed. Only the other day
the “newspaper canvasser” was a mostly-
elderly, shabby-genteel person, with a capa-
city for swapping stories and drinks, who
went round trying to persuade traders that
their fortunes would be made if they took
a few inches in the paper their visitor
worked for. The space being bought, the
trader either wrote out enough lines to fill
the space, or called in an assistant to do it;
then the compositor put the matter in type,
and there was your advertisement.
The discovery of the photo-engraving
process was mainly responsible for the swift
changes that occurred in the business
—that and, of course, the struggle for larger
turnover which followed enormous mechani-
cal developments and the consequent vast
increase in the out-turn of manufactured
goods. In the beginning the advertisement
was merely a notification that Mr. Brown
had a number of very good boots to sell.
Within the last 25 years especially, it has
become a means first of attracting the
public’s eye, then of suggesting to the public
that it could do with a pair of Mr. Brown’s
boots, finally of convincing it that of all
things in the world Mr. Brown’s boots are
what it desires most. To plant and propa-
gate these desires may not always have
wholly good results. It may be, indeed, that
our present distresses are partly due to the
extravagances into which we have been led
by the too-seductive arts of the advertiser.
But the ad.-man can set up a complete
defence to that charge. He did his part
in making a demand for goods. The poli-
tician spoiled the useful work by supplying
loans for the purchase of the . goods instead
of driving the community to extra efforts
—and thus to greater prosperity—in order
to secure them.
In the course of these changes the old
shabby-genteel canvasser has disappeared;
and the trader no longer sits down and in
an odd moment scribbles his lines on a
billhead. The trader had not gone far
before he saw that this was a business for
an expert; and one by one the larger houses
set up advertising departments of their own.
Alongside these grew the “service agents”
—men who handled whatever sum a firm
could set aside for advertising, choosing
their media, designing the ads. in order to
make the greatest appeal, making every
penny do a full penny’s worth. In this
highly important adjunct to industry the
last 20 years have seen the greatest changes
of all; and to-day the profession, which
contributed most of the members of this
convention, is a unique body in which busi-
ness capacity and artistic skill are com-
bined as they never were before in any
considerable group of men.
There is a wide field of great national
importance still to be cultivated by the
advertising specialists. We know now that
we must import a great deal less; for
many years we have bought annually from
overseas 40 millions’ worth too much. We
have got to provide employment for tens of
thousands of people who were supported
by these borrowings; and to do that we
have got to create markets for Australian
goods. And it has to be done with the
utmost regard for costs. This is the work
ahead of the ad.-men; and, vigorous com-
petitors though most of them are, there is
so large a national purpose behind their
work that one must hope that their con-
vention has given all of them further in-
spiration. And if it has led the public to
note the new status of this profession, that
is so much more to the good.
♦
The Married Female Teacher.
Dear Bulletin, —The mental and moral
effect on pupils has been neglected in the
discussion on married women in our schools.
My first experience of the business dates
back 50 years, when as a pupil-teacher
my small class was sandwiched between two
of 80 apiece taught by “interesting” ladies
who simultaneously went on leave, and
simultaneously returned, leaving at home
their babies five days old ! The school of
1500 young Australians took notice for
weeks before. Young boys and girls got
their first insight into sexual matters through
the worst possible channels. A lad was
expelled through his obscene remark to a
group of girls as one of the ladies crossed
the playground.—Yours, T. P.
♦ •
Cleaning Up the Crooks.
t ...., -
The Queensland Government is shortly to
bring forward a Police Offences Bill embody-
ing many of the provisions of the N.S.W.
Consorting Act, so called, which has proved
so successful in harrying the habitually
criminal classes in the Mother State.
Queensland has the benefit already of one
of the most lucid expositions of the criminal
law that the Empire knows—the Criminal
Code, compiled by Samuel Griffith. New
criminal conditions have grown up, however,
since Australia’s greatest jurist framed his
masterpiece. Consorting of criminals, for
instance, was not directly provided for, to
quote only one instance. The Queensland
decision to take over the latest N.S.W.
legislation is therefore entirely satisfactory.
Yet even this offers opportunity for
improvements, and Queensland has a splen-
did chance to make them.
Though the consorting clauses of the
N.S.W. Act have helped to clear the State,
and especially Sydney, of its habitually
criminal population, the men who have to
handle the job have been sorely handi-
capped in one respect. The associates of
criminals not only obstinately refuse to give
evidence against them, but deny all know-
ledge of them or their doings. It is a com-
monplace nowadays for desperately wounded
people to deny knowledge of their assailants
or the reason for the condition in which
they are found. Many a man who is well
known to be ripe for the gallows is walking
the streets immune, thanks to this sinister
convention.
Queensland’s opportunity to .overcome
this outrageous anomaly lies in the inclu-
sion in its bill of a long-standing provision
of Scottish law. This consists in the
authority given the Procurator Fiscal to
deal with witnesses in criminal cases by a
process known as “precognition.” He has
authority to bring witnesses before him on a
court summons to interrogate them, and, if
they are “obdurate” or “unwilling,” to com-
mit them to imprisonment on those counts.
Any person whose complicity in the affair
under review seems to implicate him as
a principal in the offence alleged to be
committed is specially exempted from such
an examination.
The institution of an Australian equiv-
alent for the Procurator Fiscal would give
authority a means of compelling purposely
recalcitrant witnesses to tell what they
know, or else pay some penalty for holding
back information which the State has a
right to demand.
- #
A Bill to Expel Capital.
The N.S.W. Labor Caucus has been let
into the secrets of the Government’s plan
for reducing interest. Banks other than
the State Savings Bank and the Com-
monwealth Bank, which is outside a State
Parliament’s power, are not to pay more
than from per cent, (three months) to
3 per cent, (two years) for deposits, .and
interest on private borrowings (overdrafts,
first mortgages, t.-p. balances, etc.), is not
to exceed 5 per cent.; on second and third
mortgages 6 per cent. The rate on Gov-
ernment loans is to be 3 per cent. These
rates are to apply to “all transactions exist-
ing or that may be entered into.” The
bill does not touch overseas interest on
Government loans.
If the bill passes, the Loan Council will
have something to say about the provision
relating to Government loans. Apart from
that the idea seems to be to give the State
Savings Bank and the Commonwealth
Bank a monopoly of banking and loan
business in N. S. Wales. But the former
bank, at any rate, is not organised to do
ordinary banking business; and the immedi-
ate effect will be the transfer of very large
sums to the other States. New borrowers
will then find it impossible to get accom-
modation; and many present borrowers will
find their advances called in.
As a scheme for producing chaos the
bill ranks with this Government’s best—
or worst —effort.
THEIR ZERO HOUR.
"The Auditor-Geneial having commented on war pension anomalies, the Federal Government immediately expressed its will-
ingness to hold an inquiry. It has not shown similar alacrity in exploring other avenues of economy
THE O.C.: “Hey, you chaps, get ready to hop over *again.”


è
Reduced “Room only” Rates
Single Room from 12/- per day
Double Room from 22/6 per day
Single Room with Private Bath and
Toilet from 21/- per day
Double Room with Private Bath
and Toilet from 30/- per day
Suites with Private Bath and Toilet from 40/- per day
Breakfast
2/- and 3/6. And a la carte.
Light Luncheon
in the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Luncheon and Dinner
a la carte in Grill Room, minimum 4/-
a la carte in Dining Hall, minimum 5/-
w
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.' 1 '
e
oBBmrn<=z
POLITICAL
POINTS
Australia is witnessing the last twistings
and turnings of its Federal Labor Govern-
ment —the fifth and feeblest, though it was
the strongest in numbers in the. House of
Reps. The ship is still afloat but is sinking
fast. Hughes, who had .so much to do with
the launching of it on October 22, 1929, was
characteristically the first to leave; Lyons,
Fenton, Gabb, Guy and Price followed, with
stinging remarks about the skipper and the
first mate; Beasley, Eldridge, Lazzarini and
Ward, the new man from East Sydney,
stayed aboard, a scowling group, until
Latham rammed the craft with his no-con-
fidence motion, but quitted while it was still
reeling from the .shock. The impending
doom has awed no one into silence; all hands
and the cook are still talking with unabated
energy, and so* are the two bands of mutii
neers; in fact, if a nation could be saved
by cackle, instead of by faith and works,
Australia would have achieved its salvation
long ago.
A Sydney Labor conference has resolved
that Theodore, by referring to the Lang
“plan” as “a muddle-headed policy of repu-
diation,” has “placed liimsslf outside ‘the
movement’ ”; but he is not likely to be lonely.
Present indications are that Theo’s followers,
Beasley and his friends, Lang’s party, the
Federal A.L.P. executive and the State
A.L.P. executive will all be “outside ‘the
movement’ ” at the end of the month,
“placed” there by one another.
There are passages in Scullin’s speech at
Ashfield—liis first on a public platform after
his return from England—-that make even
better reading now than they did next morn-
ing. For instance :-
I want to tell this vast audience to pay no heed
to the rumors abroad, rumors merely designed to
split the Labor party. It is quite obvious that there
are one or two in this hall who are sorry that there
is not going to be a split.
If there is anything obvious, in the light of
the events of the past two months, it is that
our revered Priminister is the world’s worst
prophet.
Two more parties have shot up in the
distracted House of Reps.—Lyons’s and
Beasley’s. That makes six, counting
Hughes’s Australian party, which can still
claim to exist so long as it speaks and votes.
ONE LEADER TO ANOTHER: “ There’s a few
tons of party literature I can let you
have cheap. What about it?”
Eighteen months ago this “party” helped
to oust Latham and Page; last week it
tried to eject Scullin and Tlieodore; in
another six months, impelled by a stern
sense of duty, it may put the boot into
Lyons or Beasley.
The end is pretty near in N. S. Wales,
but the pace is being made hot in the dole
department while the going’s good. A
“traveller” can have a different name for
each day of the week and hop in for his
cut under them all. There is no check on
the swindle as long as you can avoid meet-
ing the same issuing officer twice —and
that’s easy enough when you’re on the
move.
The High Court lias upheld the N.S.W.
Full Court’s judgment restraining the Presi-
dent of the Leg. Council from presenting
Slang's Abolition Bill for the Governor's
assent until a referendum has approved, as
provided in Bavin’s Act. Duffy, C.J., and
McTiernan, J., were for the appeal and
brothers Rich, Starke and Dixon against it;
Evatt, who was appointed at the same time
as McTiernan, did not sit, having appeared
for the Government in the Full Court. It
is another heavy jolt for Slang, whose ad-
ventures in the field of constitutional law
have been luckless and expensive. There was
his newspaper tax, for instance.
The publication of some of Scullin’s cables
from London to lieutenants in Australia has
revealed that the. Priminister, his Attorney-
General and Minister Moloney, as well as
Minister Lyons, were against
the appointment of the last
two High Court Judges. The
Priminister sought to mini-
mise the damning nature of
the disclosures by whining
that they were “confidential
communications between Min-
isters.” But it is well that
Australia should see him for
what he is-—a man who urges
his Cabinet to resist Caucus
dictation as to the judgeships,
who declares that appoint-
ments made under such com-
pulsion must be regarded as
political, who threatens to
resign if Cabinet gives in—
and then meekly accepts all
that has been done in defiance
of his directions. What is the
gentleman with the vast capa-
city for dirt-eating and knuck-
ling down going to do about
it now? And Mr. McTiernan,
who was a member of this pre-
cious Caucus, at least till im-
mediately before it thrust his
appointment on the servile
remnant of a Cabinet —what
is he going to do?
If Lang can get his “con-
ciliation and arbitration” bill
through the Legislature, Pope
Piddington I. will be declared
infallible, so far as industrial
decisions are concerned. The
bill says that Piddington’s
decisions are not to be “chal-
lenged, appealed against, re-
reviewed, quashed or called in ques-
tion” by any bird, beast or fish what-
soever. Being, infallible is. much the
same as -being a god, bar the immor-
tality. It is a big responsibility, and
being a god lias driven many a man mad,
especially if he took his position seriously.
Sometimes the man who goes around appoint-
ing or creating gods is himself a trifle “off
his onion,” and makes a bad selection of
deities in consequence.
Brazil, which, like Queensland, is now
manufacturing motor fuel from molasses, has
hit upon a new way of popularising the
spirit—it knocks 50 per cent, off fines
imposed on erring motorists if they are found
to be using the local product. The imme-
diate result has been a slump in the price
of the imported juice. The plan seems cap-
able of wide extension—from a 20 per cent,
reduction of fines for drunk and disorderly
on proof that it was all done on Australian-
brewed, to three months off for bigamy if
the second lady was set up with Australian-
made furniture.
Let the Leven Harbor Trust (Tas.) and
the Sydney Harbor Trust fight this out. The
Nereus dredge, which lately sank in Bass
Strait, was sold by Sydney Harbor Trust to
a shipbreaking firm for £524 and resold to
the Leven Trust for £4300 delivered. The
repair bill was less than £4OO, and the origi-
nal contract price for delivery was £325.
Did the Sydney Trust make a dreadful bar-
gain in selling for £524, or did the Tas. Trust
make a worse in buying for £4300? Seeing
that the ship opened up and sank on the
voyage, the first round goes against the Tas-
manian crowd.
In the absence of John Monasli, now in
Ceylon, the Vic. State Electricity Commission
is meeting the worst crisis of its career. Gigan-
tic boilers in the power-house at Yallourn
have had to be taken off their job owing to
serious defects; they compromise members
of a squad of 12 installed not long ago at
a cost of £250,000. Whether the breakdown
is due to a new type of bottom employed,
the local water or other factors will not be
known until a board has investigated the
affair. In the meantime there is such an
elaborate system of subsidiary supplies
(created as much as anything to counteract
possible strikes) that the State, as far as
its light and power needs go, isn’t aware yet
that anything is wrong.
The Labor party when it turned down the
sales tax on flour did one, of the stupidest
things in its life. Protectionists have been
telling the cockies for years, “But see wliat
benefit you’ll get out of having a large popu-
lation of consumers right alongside your
farm.” But it doesn’t mattei- to cocky
whether his customer is alongside the farm
or 10,000 miles away if the customer on
the spot won’t pay more than “world’s
parity”—that is, foreign price less freight
and other charges. To put it quite bluntly,
city Labor is collaring all the benefits of
Protection and giving the cocky and his labor
all its disadvantages; and if Protection gets
a gruelling in the next couple of years, the
stupid city Labor bosses will be wholly
responsible.
While Premier Hogan was visiting the
A.N.A. conference at Warrnambool, he saw
the delegates put three chairmen in the chair
in three minutes. The rulings of Boss and
Black, retiring and incoming chief presidents,
were disagreed with, and then vice-president
Elliott had an innings. A Labor conference
could liai'dly beat that.
THE STRATEGIST.
“The Prime Minister said in Melbourne that if confronted with
any more hampering movements in the party he would resign.”
GENERAL SCULLIN: “Have I succeeded in getting my
forces completely surrounded?”
A.D.C. THEODORE: “You have, sir.”
THE GENERAL : “Good. Then I shall resign from the
army and leave it for some lesser man to
carry on.”
Within the past fortnight The Bulletin
has had word of over 30 new political socie-
ties or proposed societies. And most of them
are very good societies, whose promoters are
sick and tired of the muddle that has been
made of Australian public affairs. So long
as pre-selection lasts, multiplication of these
bodies is likely to do more harm than good.
But they could do great service—by purify-
ing the present great parties, and limiting
the planks in every platform to two or three,
giving the member a free hand with regard to
everything else, and making pre-selection a
crime. At the same time we might cut down
the pay of every member to £3 a sitting, with
a limit of 40 sittings a year, plus 255. a day
travelling exes, for members who have to
travel to the seat of government.
Rates for forward exchange dealings are
now agreed upon by the banks, which may
buy for delivery in six weeks at present
rates. This looks as though the banks are
not going to allow any fall within six weeks,
anyway. In other words, there is not to
be any early relief for tbe Commonwealth
and State Governments from the load which
30 per cent.-extra on the overseas interest
bill means; and so long as that burden grows
so long will it be useless to look for any
decrease in taxation.
According to the Sydney “Labor Daily,”
a paper of which Mr. Lang is understood
to be a director, that gentleman said at the
Labor conference on Saturday:—
The financial interests every year made a demand
upon Australia for 55 millions of interest. They
say that we owe them this amount because of the
assistance we gave to them in the war.
This preposterous statement is made at the
very moment when there was a good hope of
arranging with Britain for a remission of
part of our war debt, and nothing could be
more calculated to prevent any such assist-
ance being given. The facts are that Aus-
tralia’s total debt (Commonwealth and State)
as at June 30, 1930, was £1,100,597,197), of
which £282,390,531 was war debt: these are
the Commonwealth Auditor-General’s figures.
Thus only 25 p.c. of the Australian debt is
war debt, and of the* total interest bill of
55 millions less than 15 millions is payable
on that debt. It would be interesting to
know how long the Governor will continue
to be “advised” by a gentleman who is so
obviously using his position to make trouble
between Australia and the Britain which his
Excellency presumably represents.
The Hogan deficit, which threatens to be
close on £2,000,000, will be diminished by
about £lOO,OOO, thanks to reduction of in-
terest due to the State Savings Bank. The
Vic. Government owes the bank £31,000,000,
and on portions pays up to 5f p.c.; at the
instance of the commissioners, rates exceed-
ing 4f p.c. go down to that figure for the
whole of 1930-31. If Hogan and Cain were
game to grasp the railway nettle as it must
be handled ultimately, it would be possible
to balance the budget by June 30, 1932. The
Tationing plan favored by Hogan would save
the jobs of all railwaymen not due for retire-
ment by age, but the union bosses prefer to
go to the Trades Hall to assist in giving
orders to the Government.
Lang evidently believes that he can fool
the people all the time. On Thursday he
had the gall to claim the Vic. Savings Bank’s
concession to Hogan’s Government as “a
gratifying result of the East Sydney by-
election” :
The Labor party told the people during the cam-
paign that if East Sydney voted for the Lang plan
it would mean that every other Government would
sooner or later adopt it. Victoria is the first to
come in.
His own “Hansard” shows that on Feb. 12
one of his followers pointed out that the Vic.
Savings Bank had reduced interest on home
and farm mortgages to 6 p.c., and suggested
that the N.S.W. Savings Bank should be
asked to follow suit. He replied that
“the Commissioners have advised me that,
prior to the recent reduction in; interest by the
Victorian Savings Bank.. . .the rates charged
by that institution were higher by compari-
son than the rates charged by the Govern-
ment Savings Bank of N. S. Wales,” adding
that “the whole question of the reduction of
bank-interest rates is to be considered at
a meeting in Melbourne.” This was on Feb.
24; the East Sydney by-election did not take
place till March 7. “Another of Mr. Lang’s
inaccurate assertions” was Comrade Hogan’s
comment on the childish bluff.
The Federal Government having revoked
its export duty on sheepskins, the first Aus-
tralian sales since December have been held
in Sydney. There was a keen demand, and
over 92,000 skins were taken at prices well
in advance of those at the last sales —as
much as 2d. per pound more. But it has
been a costly business for the growers. In
February last year, they sold 600,000 skins.
From the imposition of the duty until these
March sales there were no buyers, and many
thousands of skins perished Qr were destroyed
to get them out of the way. Altogether it
was a choice sample of Caucus rule. At a
time when there were three or four groups
in the Labor party at Canberra, one little
mob, knowing what it wanted, agreed to
scratch some other group’s back if it helped
to get this duty; so the business was put
through, though there were never more than
half a dozen members actively interested in it.
The problem of the moment is how many
of his feet the centipede Lang has put into
it over his interest-reduction scheme. _ It
is proposed that the N.S.W. State Savings
Bank may offer any interest rate so as to
attract deposits, but that other banks may offer
only a reduced figure, which is fixed. That
brings the Commonwealth in, and its Par-
liament, which has the right to legislate about
banks, may reply by enacting that the other
institutions may offer what they please, and
thus squash the omnipotent Lang right off.
Apart from that, the Courts may be appealed
THE GIFT.
“A large gathering of admirers saw the new
member for East Sydney off when he left for Can-
berra.... Caucus refused to admit him, or to regard
him as a Labor member."
ARDENT SUPPORTER: “And though we feel
confident you will be as popular in
Canberra as you are in East Sydney,
we ask you to accept this little cushion
as a farewell tribute. It may come in
useful.”
to about this way of preventing banks meet-
ing their obligations in full. As the Com-
monwealth has become responsible for the
State debts the proposal to leave it in the
lurch by scaling down the interest so far
as the local liabilities are concerned may be
legally an act of war or an act of secession.
The Courts may decide the point if the deed
comes to pass.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
*Bill O’C.”: The men (apart from its
enterprising founder) who made the old S.A.
“Register” the paper it was were two excep-
tional editors who reigned in the latter half
of last century, John Howard Clark and the
hard-hitting John Harvey Finlayson. The
latter-day “Register” was most noted for
its extraordinary blundering over simple
and well-known things. The efforts most
provocative of mirth were the interpretations
of cables, usually dished up first by the same
paper’s afternoon sheet, the “Evening Jour-
nal,” and sometimes, but not always, cor-
rected by an enraged editor in the morning
issue. Here are a few samples relating to
that mysterious place Point d’Appui, to
which the French war bulletins made fre-
quent reference:—
We are organising afresh at Point da Pui (near
Verdun), which place we recently captured.
A PERFECT MATCH.
“They seem a most devoted couple.”
“Oh, they are He’s madly in love with her, and she’s madly in love with his money.”
We have captured Ramscapelle, but have lost a
few points at Dappui, south of Ypres.
Wo have captured Tahure and reached the summit
of Point Dappui in the German second line.
Having lost their chief point, D’Appui on the
Isonzo, the Austrians have, etc.
We were looking for straws to cling to in
those dark days, and the dear old paper gave
them to us right enough. They are mostly
forgotten now; but “we have lost a few
points at Dappui” deserves immortality.
* * t- *
“Kelby”; The story about Melba dying
with Gounod’s “Ave Maria” on her lips (B.
11/3/’3l) probably arose from the fact that
the late Dame, touched with the kindness and
devotion of one of the nursing sisters, sang
it for her two or three weeks before death
came. As a matter of fact, Dame Nellie was
practically unconscious for her last 24 hours,
and was only semi-conscious before that.
When stories like this go uncontradicted,
even when newly-told, one wonders how
many alleged deathbed utterances of the
“Kiss me, Hardy” sort are inventions.
“Lao-dah” ; It isn’t only the larger pachy-
derms that attract press photographers
to Melbourne Zoo'. An
official was recently
startled by a request
from a young man with
a camera to show him
“where the unicorns are
kept,” as lie wanted to
take a picture of one for
the “Daily Squawker.”
On being assured that
he would find them two
cages on from the cocka-
trice, and just before
you get to the basilisk,
he went back to the
office wondering if the
news editor had been
pulling his leg again.
* *
“Uramao”; There is
material for an O.
Henry story in the cap-
riciousness with which
Fate entangled two
young men during the
Napier earthquake. The
pair were in custody at
the police station,
charged with having
broken into and robbed
a tobacconist’s shop,
when the ’quake struck
the town, and the police
released them on parole.
They dashed to a large
private hospital and,
with courage that sub-
sequently earned them a
compliment from the
magistrate, rescued
some of the patients,
among them a wealthy
proprietor of a tobacco
company, who rewarded
them with £25 each.
When police-court busi-
ness was resumed they
were convicted of theft
and bound over for a
year.
“Lord Luvus”: The Melbourne General
Hospital flew a Red Cross flag half-mast on
the day of Melba’s funeral, and was promptly
notified by the Defence Department that
this was an offence against the Geneva Con-
vention of 1911, ratified by the Imperial
Parliament and passed on to Australia by an
Order-in-Council. The hospital pleaded in
defence that it had been indulging in the
practice for 50 years without anybody being
a penny the worse, and suggested that it
should continue the custom.' inserting a
black star from the hospital crest in the
left-hand corner of the flag. The department
guardedly remarked that it couldn’t say
whether this would be O.K. until the matter
was decided in a court of law. Under the
Act only the Red Cross Society and the
Defence Department medical services are
authorised to use the emblem —penalty, £lO
and forfeiture of the bunting or object on
which it is displayed.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Bertrand Russell, now an
earl, exercises a powerful influence on the
restless young of China. One of the unwritten
laws which have gone by the board in the
Flowery Land, at least on the coast, is ashing
pa for the young lady’s hand. This used to be
an involved and protracted process, requiring
heavy donations to go-betweens and other
necessary middlemen. Marriages were usually
arranged in infancy, and if what looked like
a promising baby turned out in later life to
be a semi-imbecile there was no going back
on the contract without a heavy indemnity.
The children are now taking things into their
own hands. Many have ruthlessly cancelled
contracts made when they were at their
mothers’ breasts. When parental opposition
cannot be overcome the revolting couple join
a suicide club, which means that' if they
are further thwarted they will tie their
wrists together and jump off at high place.
The attitude of the diehards to the new
movement is gruesomely illustrated by a
case on the Chinese Eastern Railway. A
workman resented his 17-year-old daughter,
who had acquired a modern education, marry-
ing ai fellow-student of a better class, so he
tied her up in a sheet and buried her alive.
In his defence it was pleaded that he was
unaware that under the Republic parents no
JUST THEY TWO.
EVE: “Adam, why be so impetuous?”
ADAM: “Eve, we have a big job before us.”
longer had the power of life and death over
their female offspring. Russell once had a
professorship in Peking, and “Marriage and
Morals” and other of his works are widely
read.
* * * *
“Erua”: Even should gold coins come
into circulation again, the half-sovereign is
unlikely ever to regain its popularity. Shortly
after the war Maoriland released a quantity
of half-sovereigns, and when paying the firm’s
carters one Friday I traded off the gold. In
every case the recipient came back and
voiced his preference for a note. The last
envelope I handed out was the office-boy’s.
Presently his upraised voice protested that
he had an unknown coin in his packet; bred
in the war years he had never seen a gold
coin. The half’s resemblance in a bad light
to a sixpence is its handicap.
“Elga r”: Driving
down from Kinglake
to Melbourne lately I
passed Steel’s Creek,
38 miles from town,
and stopped to' take a
stroll across the dig-
gings, now covered in
scrub and long grass.
When I was last there,
in ’95, there were over
400 inhabitants, all
getting a bit of gold
and some doing very
well. No “susten-
ance” in those days—
a man had to get away
from Melbourne and
do something or
starve. They weren’t
all miners, by any
means; all sorts of
callings and trades
were represented. And
they certainly didn’t
get all the gold. There
was no driving; they
merely sank, from
12ft. to 15ft. the
shafts and mullock
heaps are there yet,
and the shafts are
from 10ft. to 30ft.
apart. Steel’s Creek
is among the foothills
of the Great Divide;
for 100 miles north
and north-east are
similar gullies and
flats, and there should
be gold in many of
them. Cars and
trucks can’t go far
from a road in this country, but those men
had no cars.
* * * *
“X.S.”: G. S. Browne, the eloqttent prin-
cipal of the Teachers’ College in Mel-
bourne, recently organised a questionnaire
on the recreational reading of Vic. boys and
girls between the ages of 11 and 15. Some
3500 metropolitan and 800 rural chil-
dren replied. Their answers disclosed that
stories about detectives, crimes and mys-
teries are almost universally read in the
city, a trifle less so in the country, and that
yarns about Sexton Blake are in slightly
brisker demand than those concerning the
Kelly gang, except with the country girls,
who put the Kellys first. Asked if their
sympathies were with the “d’s” or the crooks,
30 per cent, of city boys and girls admitted
that they were with the crooks, while 50
per cent, of the metropolitan youth were
frank enough to state that they saw “some-
thing attractive” in a life of crime. Asked
who amongst the galaxy of characters in
fiction they would most like to resemble,
male town and country shouted with one
voice, “Sexton Blake!” Female rus said,
“Norah Linton first, and then the girl who
helped Ned Kelly.” Educationists will no
doubt shake their heads over all this, but
to me it merely serves to show that Jim and
Mary are frank enough to admit their real
preferences, whereas their parents often
don’t. Incidentally, the “Woman’s Mirror"
was high in the regard of town and land,
especially amongst rural boys.
* s|s * *
“Templar” : Birkenhead’s testamentary dis-
positions have been giving trouble, a second
will having boen found in some out-of-the-
way place after the first one had been
admitted to probate. Both were compara-
tively old, so there may yet be a possibility
of another one turning up. There have been
previous instances of great lawyers being
amazingly careless in such matters. There
was one Lord Chancellor of last century—
Lord St. Leonards, I think —who in his Bar
days was a great authority on all matters
connected with wills, and held strong views
on the remissness of testators who fail to set
out exactly what they intend should be done
with their property. When his Lordship died
it was naturally expected that his own will
would be a model of clarity, but after his
family had hunted high and low and never
found it they were forced to the conclusion
that he had never made one. Birkenhead’s
casualness may have mattered less because,
although he made much, he left remarkably
little.
* * * *
“C.C.S.”: On Nov. 9, 1914, Fleet-street
excelled itself for speed, swift as it was dur-
ing the M.L. earthquake (B. 4/3/’3l).
The Emden arrived off Coco's at 10 a.m., and
the news of her advent landed in Electra
House, London, a few minutes after. A few
hours later came intelligence of the appear-
ance of the Sydney and the start of Aus-
tralia’s first naval battle. The news editor
of an evening paper learnt that one of his
staff had a brother at the cable station on
the atoll. With the cable company’s per-
mission an urgent message was sent appoint-
ing the young man “Our Special Correspon-
dent,” and the first afternoon edition had
an exclusive story —a first-rate one, too,
though the lad had had no previous experience.
* * * *
“Banque”: According to the cables a
Riviera casino has been the scene of a very
old method of swindling—the marking of the
backs of the master cards with invisible
material, which can only be seen through
specially tinted glasses. The game was
baccarat, in which the 8 and 9 cards, and
the combinations which go to make up 8 and
9 —the “naturals”—are all-important. The
“observer” on this occasion did not sit at
the table himself, but stood with the stand-
up. punters behind the players and signalled
his confederates when the right" cards were
drawn from the “shoe.” The gang cleaned
up £40,000 before the usual attempt at
double-crossing took place and the gaff was
blown.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Melbourne city fathers
have discovered that they have power to
pnact by-laws against the use of buildings
for immoral purposes, street soliciting and
other manifestations of Phryne’s eternal
presence in the town. A by-law is accord-
ingly being framed. If the worthy Solons
have any serious intentions, which I doubt,
what then? They will oust the. ladies from
Little Lonsdale-street and an emigration will
immediately start to the near-by suburbs,
where vacant houses are plentiful and rents
unprecedentedly low. The latest example
of the dire effects of scattering a red-
light district' instead of putting it under
medical supervision co'me.s from _ Singapore.
The bishops • succeeded in getting Malay-
street abolished. This district was a pre-
serve for the dominant white race. Now
there is no such area, and venereal disease
has greatly increased.
UNTIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Repudiation is all right,’ said a Chicago banker
who is passing through Australia, when asked for
an opinion on our financial problems, ‘until you
want to borrow again.’ ”
A not altogether unpopular way
To get quit of a debt, from a thou, to a tray,
A million down to a sprat,
Is simply to say you’ll be darned if you’ll
pay
And cheerfully leave it at that.
It’s a plan with a lure of its own —if you're
sure
That there’s nothing whereon to distrain.
But you’ll find that it’s not so easy forgot;
You may seek to explain it in vain,
Old man,
When you’re wanting to borrow again.
You may plead that you’re stony, and
roughly declare
That none can the breeks from a Hielander
tear
Or froggies of feathers denude;
You may solemnly swear that the cupboard’s
as bare
As the niche Mother Hubbard reviewed.
That taking the knock’s a process to shock
Is a thesis you’d treat with disdain.
But lenders once bit will be shy, I submit,
And prone to refusals profane,
Old chap,
If you reckon to “touch” them again.
You may let it be published abroad, if you
choose,
That mere scraps of paper you deem lOU’s,
To tear at your will or cremate;
You may flatly refuse to pay any their
dues—
It’s one method of cleaning the slate,
And a quick way, you .bet, to get out of debt,
So much is abundantly plain.
But what sort of pang is waiting for Lang
And the rest of the gang of default-and-
go-hang
When pitiless Fate shall ordain
(Poor fish!)
They must go on the borrow again!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Penfield” : Ward refused to shake hands
with his East Sydney opponent Courtenay
at the declaration of the poll; whereupon
Courtenay consoled himself with “Ah well,
my hand is all the cleaner for it.” Recalls
a bout between J. L. Purves, the big, bully-
ing barrister of Melbourne’s early ’nineties,
and Dick Sleath, miners’ president in the
Broken ITill strike of ’9O or thereabout.
The miners believed they were being made to
suffer for the sins of the directors and high
officials (and probably they were) ; so Sleath
decided to try to reach the ears of the share-
holders. Fortune sent along a shareholders’
meeting of the Big Mine in Melbourne. Sleath
bought a share and just managed to get the
transfer through in time. The directors,
alarmed, put Purves on the register, too.
Both turned up at the meeting. Purves took
a seat at the table. Sleath took a seat oppo-
site him. . Sleath got his chance and made
a start. He said he was there as a worker.
“A worker !” Purves chuckled. “A worker !
Look at his hands.” Sleath held them out
over the table. “Mine,” he said, “are clean.
If Mr. Purves’s were as clean, he wouldn’t
be here.” However, it was all no good;
though Sleatli’s pluck in going to the meet-
ing—“a lion in a den of Daniels” —made him
good friends among the directors. But it
THEY DON’T QUARREL HALF AS
MUCH NOW.
“Do he and his wife quarrel much?—1 know
they used to.”
“No, very seldom now—only when he goes
to see her.”
was Sleath’s colleague Ferguson who had
the quick tongue. “Never mind, Mr. Fer-
guson,” said one consoling visitor when
Sleath and Ferguson had been arrested
“never mind, Mr. Ferguson. Stone walls do
not a prison make nor iron bars a cage.”
“No, madam,” said Ferguson, looking around;
“but a very effective substitute.”
* * * *
“Chevroford” : A Melbourne motorist who
was taking his car to the wreckers found it
the costliest ride in his whole experience. On
the way he collided with a cable-car. He
was fined £lO and costs for driving while
under the influence; £3 for failing to stop
after a collision; £3 for having an incorrect
number on his car; and £2 for being unregis-
tered.
TERRIBLE RISKS AHEAD.
NURSE: “Look at the Lovely birthday present your mother has had given her!”
TOMMY: “Gee! I hope I don’t get one like that on my birthday.”
“Eclog”: Lang’s Minister Gosling having
referred with cheap sarcasm to the Riverina
New-Staters as “delightful Arcadians,” the
Sydney “D.T.” explained what he meant
by it:—
Somewhere in the back of the Ministerial mind
was floating an echo of his innocent days
when he sat in the old home and read Longfellow’s
“Evangeline,” with its tales of Arcady, home of the
happy.
He wouldn’t have found anything about
Arcady there. Longfellow’s poem, of course,
deals with Acadia, which was
the early French name for
Nova Scotia, a peaceful, pas-
toral place in the days of
Basil the blacksmith and the
rest, hut a very long way
from the Grecian Arcadia,
which classical poets fixed as
the ideal site for rural con-
tentment. Even the similar-
ity in the words seems to be
purely accidental; Webster
says that Acadia or Acadie is
derived from the Indian name
of the principal river Shuben-
acadie.
* * *
Gilbert Mant (London) :
From a distance I nominate
myself as having followed
more occupations for my age
than any Australian youth. I
have been locomotive cleaner,
jaclteroo, motor salesman, fish-
monger, woodcutter, navvy,
rabbit - trapper, skinbuyer,
sheepdealer, potato -grower,
architect’s clerk, journalist,
jobbing gardener, film actor,
jazz musician, florist’s assist-
ant, whisky-and-beer sales-
man, shearer and wheat-
lumper. I’ve been a journal-
ist for three of my 28 years—
which is my long-distance
record.
“10-2-4” : The East Sydney by-election in-
dicates that, like signed articles, U.S. pro-
hibition, Sabbath Day observance and many
more fussy attempts at social regimentation,
compulsory voting will shortly take its place
amongst the world’s flouted laws. Only 81
per cent, of the electors voted (37,987 out
of a total of 46,700), and from what I saw
of the brawl I am not surprised. If the
politicians, Nationalist as well as Labor, had
known what scores in their audiences were
saying about them they would have been
shocked. There is an ominous hatred of
the State abroad—the State is personified
as an unscrupulous tyrant who pinches most
of the workers’ wages under threat of police
action, and gives them to political pimps
to spend on their pals—and it can’t be
materially different from the old-time hatred
of tyrant kings. A cook whom I employed
ten years ago is an embodiment of the new
spirit I met her in a Darlinghurst crowd
on the evening before the last people’s Day
of Power, and learned that neither she nor
any of her family meant to vote. Asked why,
she explained that, apart from their con-
tempt of both candidates and all their sup-
porters, her family made it a point of honor
to flout the authorities wherever possible,
and give them the maximum amount of
trouble. For instance, both her sons had
dodged their citizen service with Jber con-
nivance. She hadn’t voted since voting
became compulsory, and made a habit of tell-
ing people so, and nothing had happened
to her. Not an admirable woman, of course,
either mentally or ethically, but still under-
standable. The tyrant State lias piled so
many maddening obligations and inhibitions
on her and hers that she would gladly assas-
sinate it if she had a chance.
* $ * *
“Coolzic”: I don’t know whether this is
politics or business-robbery or just sporting.
Or maybe it’s smoke-oh. A year or two
ago I passed through a derelict Westralian
goldfields town which at one time had six
pubs and the usual complement of stores.
When I was there it had one pub and one
store. Notwithstanding this degeneration,
however, the Government utilities were kept
up to tlieir pre-war standard. There was
a schoolmaster with a daily average attend-
ance of 14; a mining registrar, and not a
mine working or a prospecting show within
30 miles; a policeman who had not had
even a drunk case for years; and a post-
master with one mail inward and one mail
outward weekly. But I didn’t meet a single
man Jack of them. At the time of my visit
all of them except the schoolmaster were
represented by relieving officers. The school-
master was away on his annual Christmas
holidays ; the postmaster was on long leave
of three months; the policeman was off for
four months and the mining registrar for
eight months, all on full pay. The holiday
in most cases was being enjoyed in the
Eastern Slates.
* * *
“Radstock” : The selection of Albert Willis
as the Ma State’s next Agent-General con-
firms my opinion that coal-mining plus
trade-unionism are things not to be beaten
for pushing energetic men up the political
ladder. In 1885 two' new arrivals in Aus-
tralia were Andy Fisher, from Kilmarnock,
and Joe Cook, a product of the Five Towns
of Staffordshire, both equipped by previous
experience for hewing coal. Probably they
lo’oked much like any other two immigrants,
but each was a future Prime Minister, and
after that each returned to his natiye coun-
try as High Commissioner; Fisher in 1916,
Cook in 1921. Willis, from South Wales,
hasn’t reached those heights, but he has
risen even more rapidly, for he returns
AND THEN, OF COURSE, THERE’S TROUBLE.
BILL ( just-returned traveller telling a married sister about his thrills ): “And I had a
wonderful time with another girl on the Malontes."
SISTER SUSAN: “But, Billie, do these shipboard romances ever come to anything?”
BILL: “Oh no, of course they don’t—not unless the husband finds out.”
to represent New South Wales in London
after a residence of barely 20 years here.
And, unlike the other two, he has never had
to tight for a seat in Parliament, having been
presented with one for his Trades Ilall acti-
vities. It shows what coal-mining, combined
with a capacity for dialectics, will do for
a man.
“Aere Perennius”: The path of a vanished
war is always studded with memorials com-
memorating real or imaginary achievements.
In the latter category may be placed the lion
raised by the then Netherlands Government
on the field of Waterloo to celebrate the vic-
tory of the Netherlands troops over Napoleon.
In the former is a recently unveiled memorial
in Brussels to' the carrier-pigeons used in the
front line during the Great War. These birds
did wonderful service for the Allies and
the Central Powers, and the tribute “To
the Pigeon Soldiers” was well won. Closely
akin in sentiment to tills memorial was that
raised by the women of Port Elizabeth,
South Africa, to the horses which died in
the Boer War of 1899-1902. The two must
be unique of their kind.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: I am sorry to read from the
London cables that my old acquaintance
Jiddu Krishnamurti has abandoned his
Messiahship—resigned his heavenly portfolio,
so to speak. The synthetic creation of a new
religion in these modern days would have
been an interesting spectacle. The master-
ful Annie Besant first decided _ that the
Indian lad was the “Chosen Vehicle” at an
age when the candidate was too
young to know anything about it.
After, several lawsuits with the
father she obtained the custody of
the child, who was carefully trained
for the role according to the best
models. In 1916 the Theosophical
Society in London voted by 500 to
3 that Jiddu was indeed the Messiah,
though a former councillor said the
result was “an extraordinary exhi-
bition of auto'cracy” on the part of
Mrs. Besant, the president. In sub-
sequent years Krishnamurti was
heard of as broadcasting from Scot-
land; speaking in a strange tongue
and a voice not of this earth at
Madras; expressing a fondness for
tea and tennis with young ladies on
the Riviera; selecting seven of his
12 apostles at Adyar, India, in 1926;
being entertained by believers in
Chicago at a luncheon whose piece
de resistance was an omelette con-
taining 3600 eggs and 8001 b. of mush-
rooms ; camping in the grounds of a
castle in Holland with 3700 dis-
ciples ; and informing an interviewer
that one of the proudest moments of
his life was when a Scottish news-
paper praised' him for going round
the North Berwick links in 77.
Some of these items will appear incongruous
to persons who believe that religions are as
romantic in their origins as they seem at
1000 years’ distance. Krishnamurti’s public
utterances have always given the impression
of a natural, normal youth who rather re-
sented being presented with a ready-made
halo.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: You may nominate with
confidence in any competition for the world's
shortest firm-name a partnership just dis-
solved in South Aus., “Ey and Ey.”
* * * *
“10-2-4”: Two protests appeared in a
recent “S. M. Herald” —one against com-
ments on economics by Judges, and another
against comments on politics by prelates, the
implications being that such matters should
be left to politicians. The fact is you can t
find a more reliable authority on a public
question than a Judge—unless it is a prelate.
Our Judges are highly educated; and, where
they aren’t political Judges, they are as
nearly without prejudices as it is possible
for human beings to be. They can’t be
bought (their salaries are too high) ; they
have nothing to look for from “interests”
(their appointments are for life), and they
usually have judicial minds. Australian pre-
lates are as straight as Judges, and as
literate, though their minds are not trained
to weigh evidence. The average politician,
whatever his party may be, is absolutely the
most worthless counsellor in the community.
Few first-class men in any trade or profes-
sion will have anything to do with politics,
and this has been going on for a generation
or more. Ninety per cent, of our politicians
are more or less illiterate. They are biased
in the nature of things ; if they say what they
think they risk their careers. The N.S. vv •
move to ruin Federal Laborites who
object to the Lang plan is characteristic of
the work of the machines. Some of the ablest
men in public life here have been outed by
a machine, Labor or Nationalist, and several,
such as W. M. Hughes, have been outed by
both. The average politician can only get
and keep a seat by lying hard and continu-
ously to the electors. As the dying Heine
said of the Creator’s disposition to forgive
sinners, “It is his metier."
GRACE-NOTES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. wears his white flannels on the Bondi
promenade with that careless grace which is the
mark of the well-dressed man.” —“The Gossip” in
Sydney “Telegraph.”
A proposition that might pass for fact,
But only till you happen to recall,
Whatever grace our primal parents lacked
Attired in figleaves, or before the Fall
When through the Eden glens and glades
they tracked
With not a stitch of covering at all,
’Twas not the grace whefeon such store is
set
By beauty-loving artists, that I’ll bet.
Those goddesses who climbed Mount Ida's
sides,
Would they have had an added grace
arrayed,
Think you, like fashionable modern brides?
And, say, what figure had Apollo made
Apparelled in a pair of creamy strides,
The sort that guarantee a Bondi blade
Such careless grace as cannot be expressed
By persons less aesthetically dressed?
This bearing—is it the exclusive trait
Of radiant knuts in fifty-shilling bags
And girls in dazzling Paris costumes, eh?
Out on such milliners’ and tailors’ gags!
Think of the “angel grace” in her that lay
Who came to King Cophetua in rags,
That beggar-maiden, stony-broke and stiff,
Who had him at her feet in half a jiff.
You’ll hear it said a woman wears her
clothes
Well —and a mannequin in any case
Finds the acquirement, everybody knows,
More valuable than a pretty face.
But in a fellow’s trousers d’you suppose
There’s scope for similarly careless grace?
And stay! Another thought intrigues,
enchants:
Are there more ways than one of wearing
pants ?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head. Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
THIS YEAR
If ever it was necessary for the man of limited means to con-
serve carefully and to spend wisely, it is now. In most cases
incomes are lower, and in many outgoing is greater, and conse-
quently reduced margins must be provided for.
True Thrift is not only the hoarding of money—it is just as
much a matter of careful, useful spending; but obviously the
saving must come first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account and use it faithfully.
It costs nothing, but will help you to help yourself.
Cbramoiroealtl) Savings Banfe of Hustralia
C Guaranteed by the Com monwealth Government .)
ign*
SgJSsß*
?#•
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
(or nothing!
r T , O meet present
conditions Car-
lyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: —
Single rooms from 4/6
per day, double from 7/6,
bed and breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6
double. All meals optional
(also at reduced rates)
in tearoom or cafe. Inclu-
sive board from 10/6
daily, or 65/- weekly.
Guests’ cars garaged
without charge, and train
travellers pay no taxi
fares, as Cariyon’s is in
Spencer Street, right oppo-
site the station. Please
wrPe for revised tariff
card.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Vic. Premier Hogan, who philosophically
admitted the other day that he doesn’t expect
his term of office to last much longer, had a
job in his early twenties that furnished
good training for the rough-and-tumble of
politics. For four years he was organiser of
the axemen on the Westralian goldfields wood
lines, when the proprietors of those enter-
prises were making fortunes by supplying the
Golden Mile furnaces with fuel. They were
a strenuous crowd, th'ose axemen, men of
all nationalities. Some of the companies
reckoned they lessened the chance of labor
troubles by employing 50 per cent, of for-
eigners, among whom Italians predominated ;
but disputes were frequent enough, and
the prospect of the mines being hung up was
so serious that on one occasion Newton
Moore, the then Premier, rushed up from
Perth to act as peacemaker. Hogan was
a determined and often aggressive union
spokesman in those days, a dour-looking
figure in flannel and moles with a gift for
making flamboyant speeches and getting into
embittered controversies with newspapers.
ITe has mellowed a good deal in the inter-
vening 20 years.
Theatrical entrepreneur Ernest Rolls is the
first aerial season-ticket holder in Australia.
The pass, which is good for all the air routes,
cost him £528.
William James George, dead in West-'
ralia at 78, had a long public career there.
An ironfounder and engineer by trade, he
came to Australia from Birmingham half a
century ago, and after some years spent in
railway construction settled in Perth, becom-
ing M.L.A. for the Murray as long ago as
1895. Always a man >of strong views and
individuality, he chaied at party discipline in
his early Parliamentary days and rather
prided himself on playing a lone hand, but
his technical qualifications caused the Gov-
ernment to offer him the Commissionership of
Railways in 1902, and he left Parliament to
hold it for six years, introducing his usual
forthright methods into the job. He re-
entered politics to find his old constituency
faithful to him until his retirement at last
elections. He was Minister for Works for
eight years. A son fell at Gallipoli.
Alec J. Gibson, head and front of the All
for Australia League, the most successful
movement started in Sydney for many years,
is a consulting engineer by profession, a
member of the firm of Julius, Poole and Gib-
son, the Julius of the firm being the knight
who is chairman of the Commonwealth Coun-
cil for Scientific and Industrial Research —
A. J. GIBSON, of the A.F.A. League.
inventor also, by the way, of tke automatic
totaiisator. Gibson’s own specialty is elec-
tricity : he has given evidence on the sub-
ject of Australia’s waste of potential power
at several inquiries. A cheerful soul and
a capital speakei’, Gibson has got behind
him several thousand members, whose next
important business will be to decide what
they’ve come together for. A conference
to decide on future plans has been called
for the 28th.
A. C. Willis, who goes to London as
N.S.W. Agent-General, pledged to convert the
city to the Lang Plan, is as good a man as
the Government could have chosen for a job
like that. Though born in Wales, where his
people were miners, he is virtually a Cock-
ney, having lived in London for years before
he emigrated to Australia a couple of decades
back. He is a fluent and clear-headed speaker,
as imperturbable as a Chinese idol, and the
possessor of a fat, amiable smile which is
very disarming. He used to be a lay preacher,
nearly became an Anglican parson, and is
still an earnest Christian of the kind that
never turns the other cheek.
Sidney Myer, head of Melbourne’s biggest
“emporium,” announced last week that his
co. will spend
£300,000 on re-
modelling and add-
ing to its premises
—not because the
job is urgent, but
because he and his
colleagues thin k
Melbourne will
never be so much
in want of the
work as it is now.
Myer’s interest in
matters like this
isn’t a bit puzzling
to those who know
the man. Imagi-
nation is his larg-
est mental asset:
he couldn’t have
built up his busi-
ness without it.
An d imagination
makes him pro-
foundly unhappy in
the face of dis-
tress. He gave
25,000 shares in
the business to
Melbourne Uni. a
few years ago—
“and I wouldn’t
MYER, of the
Emporium.
sell them, if I were you, till you can* get £4
apiece for them,” he counselled.
H. F. Hardacre, who retired from the
Queensland Land Appeal Board the other
day, was born in America of British parents
and came to Australia at 22. A contem-
porary of Dave Bowman and Tom Glassey,
he was identified with the early days of
Labor organisation and, becoming M.L.A. for
Leichhardt in 1593, held the seat until his
retirement to the Land Appeal Board in
1919. A strong-minded, clear-thinking soul,
and as straight as an arrow, he was a Labor
politician of a type that is not so easily
tound to-day. The old warhorse, now 70,
talks of returning to politics, but it is to be
hoped he will think better of it.
Dave McGrath was the Labor M.H.R.
who moved the resolution that all Ministerial
jobs should be thrown into the pool and re-
scrambled for. He watched without a qualm
the rejection of Anstey, Beasley and Daly,
but when his own job, that of Chairman of
Committees; was handed over to Cunningham
Dave felt like the eagle whose own plumage
“winged the pinion that impelled the steel.”
However, he pulled himself together and
flatly refused to give up his billet, on the
ground that only the House could dispossess
lnm of it. And Dave being a loud asser-
tive person, a bellowing bull of Bashan
in his way, the Scullin crowd cautiously
decided not to risk a Parliamentary vote on
the question, so that this particular Caucus
decision goes by the board. McGrath has
had 27 years of Parliamentary life with one
break; he sat for Grenville in the Vic. Assem-
bly before Ballarat made an M.H.R. of him
just before the war.
There were not many men who could throw
their minds further back into the Parlia-
mentary life of this country than J. M.
Chanter, who died last week in Melbourne,
aged 86, He just missed meeting William
Bede Dailey: Dailey went out of politics with
the general election at which Chanter came
m (1885). But Dibbs and Jennings and
John Robertson and Julian Salomons and, of
cour.Se, Henry Parkes were all well in Chan-
ter’s day, and he was a colleague of Edmund
Barton in the latter’s first Cabinet—the
Dibbs Government of 1889. But in all his
long Parliamentary life, stretching with a
break or two' from 1885 to the end of 1922,
that 10 weeks of Ministerial office was all
Chanter ever had. He was, however, many
other things—the first Chairman of Com-
mittees in the House of Reps., among them.
Throughout he was one of the old group of
Protectionist members who always hovered
on the borders of the Labor party, and to-
wards the end definitely fluttered across.
As successor t 0 Col. Allen, who has re-
signed, the M.L. Government has appointed
Brigadier-General 11. E. Hart, of Masterton,
Administrator of Western Samoa, a billet that
lias never been a bed of roses to its occupant.
Like Allen, Hart is a lawyer by profession,
but much of his life has been spent in soldier-
ing. Forty-nine o’n his last birthday, ha
was just old enough to join one of the.
S’African contingents, serving as a private.
He went to the Great War as a major in
1914, and climbed to his present rank by
May, 1917. He was in temporary command of
the M.L. Rifle Brigade in the decisive action
at Le Quesnoy. Hart’s appointment is an
indication that the M.L. Government still
considers the Samoans need strict discipline,
though it lias been advised many times by
the late Maui Pomare and the present Native
Minister, Apirana Ngata, that a lot of fric-
tion could be avoided if an Administrator
who understood the Polynesian mind were ap-
pointed. The ideal man would be Ngata,
but the elderly knight can’t be spared from
his own land just now.
John Lloyd Price, who resigned the party
secretaryship and voted for the censure motion
as a protest against the re-admission of Theo-
dore to the Cabinet, represented Port Adelaide
for 10 years in the Assembly before he went
to London to represent the State. His
father, Tom Price, S.A.’s first Labor Premier
(1905-00),, was a stonemason who helped
to build the Parliament House in which he
was destined to become the first figure. Tom
was always esteemed for hi.s straightness
and directness of speech; curiously enough,
it was he who once warned the electors
against returning “dirty birds” to’ Parlia-
ment.
The services to fruitgrowing of just-dead
P. J. Carmody, late chief orchard supervisor
to the Vic. Department of Agriculture, could
be calculated in millions. His system of
pruning Jonathans has added enormously to
the annual apple yield.
Victoria has some remarkable blind people.
They include a leading counsel and a lead-
ing pianist and composer. Now it is about
to send abroad a blind inventor, E. C. Brick-
hill. Fourteen Brickhill patents have
been registered in Britain, mostly concerned
with water-service apparatus. A committee
has been formed to place his products on the
world’s markets, and he is to' be farewelled
at a community singsong at Melbourne Audi-
torium on March 30.
“Sirinik”: The resignation of Sir Oswald
Mosley from the British Parliamentary
Labor party means that its course is nearly
run. Such men have no time for lost causes.
Mosley is the Winston Churchill of his generar
tion—a sportsman, an effective platform
speaker and debater, an ex-cavalryman, a tire-
less worker, a clever organiser, a blameless
family man, and a careerist. The only thing
he can’t do that Churchill can is write. On
the other hand, he is a £lO,OOO-a-year
man in his own right; his wife is next door
to a millionairess, his family goes back
on both sides to the fourteenth century, and
he is more popular with his own class than
Churchill was at his age. Also, he is strik-
ingly good-looking, which Churchill never
was.
The fire which swept away £lOO,OOO
worth of Macßobertson confectionery at
Fitzroy (Vic.) had its origin in the
spot where the founder of the enter-
prise which caters for Australia’s sweet
tooth first began to experiment with a pestle
and mortar. A plaque near by proclaims the
fact. Half a century ago Macßobertson was
his own manager and all of his staff. He
now employs 2000 people and subsidises
polar expeditions in his spare time.
BLACK, of the
A.N.A.
David Black
waited 27 years for
the presidency of
the A.N.A.; he
joined the institu-
tion in early youth.
A capable debater, he
was Labor’s young
hopeful when he
contested Indi for
the House of Heps,
three elections ago.
He was beaten
after a hard fight.
For some years he
was sec. of the Vie.
Teachers’ Union,
and is now head-
master at Yarra-
ville State School.
Mrs. George
Southwell, who has
passed out at Can-
beri'a, aged 77, was
one of the oldest
residents in the
Federal Capital
Territory. H e r
dad, John Mcln-
tosh, was a Dun-
troon pioneer.
After her marriage
she went with her
husband to Orro-
ral, in the Tharwa
district, now owned
by Andy Cunning-
ham, who attempt-
ed an aeroplane
flight to England.
In Mrs. South-
well’s day supplies
for Orroral were
transported per
packhorse from Queanbeyan; the present
owner travels by air. A brother of the de-
ceased lady, Sergeant James Mclntosh, was
the police officer in charge during the gold
rush to Araluen.
Daniel Mahony, the petrologist, second
in seniority on the geological staff of Yic.
Mines Department, looks likely to become
Director of the Melbourne National Museum
in place of the retiring Kershaw. Mahony,
who' is now 53, caught the first boat to
London when the war began, and served
with J. Bull’s expeditionary force. He
wound up with a captaincy, and then re-
sumed his job at the Mines Department.
Louis Philip Jacobs, who has died at a health
resort in California, was a brother of the
Governor-General’s wife. He retired many
years ago from Jacobs, Hart and Co., to-
bacco distributors, of Melbourne, to seek for
health in various parts of the world. He
was an enthusiastic single-taxer, and the
Melbourne league, which by a pure coinci-
dence has its headquarters in a thorough-
fare called George’s-lane, was immensely
heartened by getting a large donation from
him recently.
Senator CHAPMAN.
Senator J. H.
Chapman, who died
unexpectedly last
week, not yet 52,
was a typical S.
Aus. Country mem-
ber born and
brought up in a
northern wheat
township, a Prince
Alfred College boy
with a bit of com-
mercial training (he
was in the National
Bank for a while)
and then a farmer
himself: he took
up land on the
West Coast and
did pretty well at
it. He was M.L.A.
for his district for
six years, was one
of the brighter
stars of the Coun-
try party, and was
included in the
Nationalist - Coun-
try party nomi-
nation in ’25.
Frank Clark,
killed in Melbourne
the other day by the
falling of a lighter’s
mast, had reason
to complain of
F'ate’s whimsies.
Thirty-one years ago he was a seaman on the
Elizabeth Graham, then a noted Melbourne-
Maoriland trader. He came back from a voy-
age to learn that his father, a well-known
Melbourne master mariner, and his four
brothers had been drowned in Port Phillip
when the yacht Queenie foundered. It is an
extraordinary coincidence that the lighter
on which he met his death was all that was
left of the old Elizabeth Graham.
Steve Fairbairn, of the famous squatting
family of Victoria, has broken into litera-
ture with a book of reminiscences to which
Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch has contributed an
appreciative if playful preface. Fairbairn
selected —for his title “Fairbairn of
Jesus,” referring to his old Cambridge
college: Quiller-Coucli thinks it may be
regarded as “a little too much of
a claim,” admitting, however, that “this
strong man of his hands” has interpreted the
sporting side of university life in a masterly
manner. “It will be a good thing for most
of us,” he concludes, “to drop off to sleep
and dream of what we might have done if
our grandfather had weighed (see p. 1)
20 stone.”
Ambrose Pratt recently visited Malaya and
Siam on a special commission for the tin-
producers of Australia regarding suspension
of operations during the depression. Malayan
tin is essentially an Australian industry,
Captain E. T. Miles, now living in retire-
ment at Ringwo'od (Vic.), having pioneered
and established tin-dredging in the Penin-
sula, while A. W. Palfreyman (Tas.) was
the financial end of the business. Pratt
mixes authorship with his other activities,
and one result of his trip is “Magical
Malaya,” shortly to be published in Mel-
bourne. This is the writer’s thirty-second
publication. His “Throe Years with Thunder-
bolt” was translated into four languages,
including Russian.
“D.”: Jimmy Atholwood, who died at his
beloved home overlooking Sydney Harbor last
week, was a most gifted being. Australia
hasn’t known a more versatile character-actor.
Who that saw him play Moriarty to Cuyler
Hastings’s Holmes, a quarter of a century ago,
will forget the horrifying figure he made of
the professor ? He was equally effective in
melodrama, society comedy and pantomime.
Also, he was a picturesque writer (he had
just finished his memoirs when he died), a
brilliant raconteur, and an artist whose por-
trait work in plaster was widely known.
L. R. Menzie, the prospector who gave
his name to a goldfield in Westralia and did
pretty well out of his finds, settled in Cali-
fornia, and finds Hollywood as interesting as
any place. Of late months he has been
writing the story of his wanderings, and
will publish it presently.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
EVERLASTING NEVER-LEAK
BLOW-OFF VALVE
2 Years’ Guarantee.
tmvuuvuwuw. •
STRAIGHT THROUGH BLOW'§
Never Fails to Give
Complete Satisfaction
Reference to innumerable
users throughout the
Commonwealth.
Made only by—
Guthridge Limited
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
Illustrated Catalogue cannot fail to interest you.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Meat Export Co.
, ; ' To Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1920.. 27,029 6 p.c. = 39,299 —' 131,452
Loss.
1921.. 79,785 Nil 51,667
1922.. 1,610 Nil 60,057
Profits.
1923.. 3,069 Nil 3,069 53,126
1924.. 1,162 Nil 1,162 54,288
1925.. 26,751 4 p.c. = 26,199 552 54,840
Loss.
1926.. 13,488 Nil 41,352
Profits.
1927.. 12,677 Nil 12,677 54,029
1928.. 34,158 5 p.c. = 32,749 1,409 55,438
1929.. 3,137 Nil 3,137 68,575
Loss.
1930.. 2,628 Nil 55,947
The old Q.M.E., led by Robert Philp and
other men of vision, had plunged into the
pastoral business and done fairly well. There
was a reconstruction in 1915, when the old co.,
whose capital and reserves totalled £369,862,
was split into two, with paid capitals aggre-
gating £873,306. The pastoral properties
passed to Australian Stock Breeders, and the
meatworks at Townsville and Brisbane to
the present co.
For a while a run of moderate divs. was
paid. But when the wartime contracts ter-
minated the Argentine got a hold on the
British and Continental markets with chilled
beef, while, locally, high prices, drought and
labor conditions lifted costs to such a level
that export became unprofitable. Thus over
the last decade the co.’s aggregate losses
have exceeded its aggregate profits by
£16,557, and since two small divs. were paid
reserves were bitten into for £75,505, reduc-
ing them to £55,947 at Nov. 30 last.
About three years ago Queensland freezers
came on to the southern markets with chilled
beef, and have increased their consignments.
But conditions in the export trade remain
unfavorable.. Last year Germany prohibited
the importation of frozen beef, thus causing
a glut, followed by price recessions, in the
English market. Also there was a sharp
contraction in prices for hides and tallow,
while competition kept the figure for fat
stock relatively high. Hence the year’s
trading resulted in a loss of £2628.
However, the co.’s finances have remained
comfortable enough, as balance-sheet figures
show: —
1Q92 1928 1999 1930
Paid capital.. £654,'976 £654,976 £654,976 £654,976
Creditors .. 119,806 29,757 27,227 24,392
Property, live-
stock, shares
in other cos. 425,798 448,798 422,034 438,977
Stock.. .. 85,557 38,405 65,875 73,372
Stores .. 45,865 27,209 25,431 24,068
Debtors & cash 270,688 258,508 227,438 198,898
At the close of accounts creditors could
see over three times the amount coming to
them in unsold stocks alone. The growth
of £16,943 in the book value of fixed assets
and livestock was apparently due to the
purchase of scrip (amount not stated) ih the
North Queensland Meat Co., which owns the
Burdekin and Biboora works.
On the market 4s. is offered for the pound
shares as against Bs. a year ago. Sellers
ask 4s. 6d. The book value of the cover is
21s. in net tangibles, mainly plant, etc., the
worth of w’hich is its profit-earning capacity.
Griffiths Bros., Ltd.
Net r Dividends -,To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 31,364 7 p.c. 8$ p.c. = 31,026 338 34,760
Profit on property sale, £lO,OOO .. 44,760
1927.. 25,597 7 p.c. 7 p.c. = 27,404 42,953
1928.. 16,011 7 „ 31 „ „ 18,952 40,012
1929.. 23,718 7 „ 5 „ „ 22,574 1144 41,156
1930.. 13,774 7 „ 21 „ ~16,537 38,393
Though it was established in 1894, the public
did not become interested in this tea, coffee
and cocoa concern, which has extensive con-
nections in the country, until 1920. For the
next five years a regular but liberal 10 p.c.
div. was paid. Then the co. withdrew from
some of the more distant parts of N. S.
Wales and Queensland, where the trade had
become unprofitable.
At the same time the board decided to go
more extensively into the tearoom business,
and also added' confectionery to the list of
the co.’s manufactures. Some of the old
freeholds were sold at a profit, new ones
•were bought, and shops were opened in
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Nevertheless, there has been a steady con-
traction in gross profits, overhead has been
difficult to restrain, and over the last five
years pref. divs. (£10,500 p.a.) and an aver-
age of 5.3 p.c. to the ords. have called for
£6031 more than the aggregate net profits,
apart from property deals.
Of course the general slump affected last
year’s figures. The earnings (£230,760) were
£8353 lighter, while further extensions to the
tearoom business added £2126 to exes.
(£217,621). Allowing for minor adjust-
ments the net result slipped £9944. It was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show but
1.3 p.c. on the ord. capital as against 4.6,
2.2, 6.2 and 8.6 p.c. back to 1926. But since
an interim at the rate of 5 p.c. p.a. was paid
to the ords., reserves hacL 1° be tapped for
£2763 for the final pref. distribution, thus
reducing the lay-by to £38,393 in excess of
the £75,000 of goodwill, etc. That was
after allowing more than usual for bad debts
(amount not stated), and taking stocks into
account at £29,619 higher than the 1929
figure. These are reported “particularly well
held”; probably the co. increased its stock of
tea, anticipating the rise in the tariff.
Last year a freehold was bought in Adel-
aide, and £28,147 was added to the mortgages
and £20,329 to the overdraft:—
1925. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £391,485 £391,485 £391,485 £391,485
Mortgage and
debentures.. 95,583 89,643 74,610 102,757
Deposits .. 80,187 72,998 36,750 35,188
Creditors and
overdraft.. 48,932 69,829 35,802 55,126
Freeholds .. 155,785 106,695 105,986 121,799
Leaseholds .. 27,915 27,972 31,715 33,505
Plant, vehicles
and fittings 71,088 66,336 70,362 72,634
Stock.. .. 155,877 183,847 139,163 168,782
Debtors ' .. 198,013 273,784 225,740 214,907
Shares in other
cos. . . 12,274 12,354 12,254 12,254
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 7,256 5,270 3,430 2,808
The book value of freeholds increased
£15,813; the rest of the new money was
absorbed mainly in stocks. Including these
and mortgages, the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£93,426) was £27,745 lighter than
at the previous balance. Much, of course,
depends upon the soundness of debtors’ bal-
ances and the stock figures. The position will
look more attractive when the substantial
outside debt is reduced ; amongst other things,
it means heavy overhead.
The board reports that it has the organi-
sation well in hand. But competition for
the smaller volume of trade now available
is very keen, and the trend of commodity
prices is still downwards. Results will largely
depend upon the extent to which overhead
can be restrained. The market prices the
prefs. , at 145.; at which figure the return
is 8.2 p.c. There are 150,000 carrying a
cumulative 7 p.c. with priority as to capital.
The backing amounts to £2 17s. 3d. in net
tangibles; last year’s profit was less than
1-1 times their annual requirements. For the
more speculative ords. 7s. is paid.
Marcus Clark (Victoria), Ltd.
f Dividends Towards
Pref. Re-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£> £> £>£>£>
1925.. 5,052 5,000 Nil 52 10,511
May.
1926.. 3,991 3,667 Nil 324 10,187
Au g Added preliminary exes., £9647 .. 19,834
1927.. 41,009 16,852 8 p.c. = 22,704 1453 18,381
1928.. 24,884 13,600 4 „ „ 10,200 1084 17,297
Premiums on shares, £1750 . . 15,547
1929.. 19,631 14,606 Nil 5025 10,522
Loss.
1930.. 6,032 7,600* Nil 24,154
*4 p.c.
First, Marcus Clark, Sydney, formed a sub-
sidiary to run a motor agency in Melbourne.
Then a chance to enter the drapery trade
in that city offered; and as the subsidiary
was earning little more than its pref. div.,
the directors decided to reorganise and trans-
form the infant into a holding co., which
thus became a parent itself. The old hire-
purchase accounts were obtained for collec-
tion ; but earnings now depend mainly upon
returns from the subsidiaries, and these have
suffered severely.
The holdings comprise all the shares in
Craig, Williamson (Melbourne), all the ords.
(105,000) in Miller Anderson (Adelaide)
and 5000 shares in another co. The business
of Chas. Lane and Co. (Melbourne) was
bought for £20,000 in prefs. after the close
of accounts in 1928, and was passed over
to Craig’s, apparently at cost.
The year to Aug. 31, 1927, was the only
satisfactory one the parent has experienced.
It was able to pay its first ord. div. (8 p.c.)
and apply £1453 of the net takings towards
wiping out the deficit. But owing to the poor
trading results of the chief subsidiary, the
ords. have since had a thin time again; last
year the prefs. got only half a meal, and
even that was not earned.
The trading experience of the operating
cos. has been as follows :
t —-Net Profits ~
1927. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Craig’s .. .. £60,834 £30,007 £21,315 £l7OB
Miller Anderson .. —• 11,565 10,339 7116
Of course there was a sharp contraction of
turnover last year, both in Melbourne and
Adelaide, and the weight of the debt in the
two concerns made itself felt. Thus Craig s
net profit slipped £19.607. An interim div.
of £BOOO was paid. Miller Anderson s last
figures are to Jan. 31, 1930, and it is doubt-
ful whether the 12 months to Jan. 01, 1931,
have brought any improvement.
For the year to Aug. 31 last the contrac-
tion in the holding co.’s revenue (£IS,2G4)
was £17,300. There was little change in
exes. (£15,522), which interest and other
fixed charges have tended to make inelastic.
After making special provision of £8775 for
doubtful debts, etc., a loss of £6032 showed
up. In the subsidiaries savings have been
made, and the position is now said to be
more promising. Still, until the debt can be
reduced, overhead threatens to remain stub-
born. . .
The next table shows the position of the
parent and its subsidiaries as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —-
Marcus
Clark Craig, Miller
(Vic.), Williamson, Anderson
Aug. 31, July 31, Jan. 31,
1930. 1930. 1930.
Paid capital £465,000 £400,000 £185,000
Mortgages .. “
Sundry creditors 155,789 166,785 16,805
Property, plant, etc. 488 98,311 172,949
Shares other cos. 510,000 —-
Stocks. . . . 239,145 73,859
Book debts, etc. 86,147 91,940 56,233
During the last term the parent went to its
bankers for an extra £9604, making the over-
draft £134,386 at Aug. 31. At that. date
liabilities exceeded liquids, excluding share
holdings, by £69,642. Craig’s more or less
liquid surplus (£164,300, including stocks)
slipped £25,075 during the 12 months to
July 31. Miller Anderson improved its
financial position by £55,214; stocks, book
debts, etc., exceeding liabilities by £9070 at
Jan. 31, 1930.
The parent’s prefs.—l9o,ooo of them carry-
ing a cumulative 8 p.c. with priority as to
capital—were covered by net tangibles with,
a book value of approximately 31s. The
backing for the fully-paid ords. was 7s. 6d.
in net tangibles. The scrip has not an active
market.
Southern Blue Metal Quarries
This eo., which was launched in Oct,, 1926,
to work large blue metal deposits near Moss
Vale (N.S.W.), on the Southern railway line,
has been a disappointment to shareholders.
The public put up £lOO,OOO, and the vendor
took £65,000 in paids. Presently Australian
Iron and Steel and Howard Smith became
interested, taking between them about 83,000
shares. Thus paid capital grew to £248,000,
at which figure it still stands.
The prospectus figured on an output of
300,000 tons p.a., and saw a 15 p.c. div. in the
third year. But estimates got all awry.
Soon after production began unexpectedly
heavy overburden was met with; it restricted
output and increased costs. . Then the plant
was reorganised and additional equipment
was installed. But trouble was met with
again; the old steam-shovel failed to do the
work expected of it, and had to be replaced
by a new electric one early in 1929.
Last year everything worked smoothly at
the producing end, and the output was only
slightly lower than the previous year’s. Still,
prices had to be cut in order to hold busi-
ness ; and the declared net result for the 12
months to Oct. 31 was a loss of £827 com-
pared with profits of £l9l and £1522 for
the two preceding years.
At the close of accounts there was £33,242
coming to outsiders, including £19,649 to
the bank. Stocks, book debts and cash
totalled £25,239; plant was in at £165,940 ;
freehold, £68,900; leases and development,
£21,826.
With public expenditure cut to the bone,
and an almost complete stoppage of new
building and other construction work, it is
difficult to find a bright spot in the co.’s
immediate outlook.
Southland Frozen Meat (M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 17,818 8 p.c. = 9,083 8,735 116,282
1921.. 5,052 8 „ „ 9,083 112,251
1922.. 14,635 8 „ „ 9,083 5,552 117,803
1923.. 19,696 10 „ ~ 11,354 8,342 126,145
1924.. 9,249 10 „ ~ 11,354 124,040
1925.. 13,710 10 „ ~ 11,355 2,355 126,395
1926.. 13,778 10 „ ~ 11,355 2,423 128,818
1927.. 12,722 11 ~ „ 12,490 232 129,050
1928.. 14,683 12 ~ „ 13,626 1,057 ,130,107
1929.. 13,643 12 ~ ~ 13,626 17 130,124
1930.. 11,394 11 „ ~12,490 129,^28
That this Maoriland freezer is able to make
such an attractive showing, while others
further north are balancing on the wrong
side of the ledger, is largely due to the fact
that the works are at Invercargill, Mataura
and Makarewa. When supplies are plentiful,
as they were last year, the co. does not have
to compete for stock in the overcrowded
iCanterbury markets, nor do many buyers
reckon it worth while coming to the extreme
southern end of the island.
Also, more was put by than was distri-
buted iu the fat years of war-time contracts,
notwithstanding a cash bonus of £22,701,
sent out with £45,522 of gift scrip a dozen
years ago. Thus the co. was able to show
reserves £15,481 in excess of the £113,547
of paid capital at the close of last accounts;
no less than £129,664 was invested outside
the business. No hint is given as to what
the investments turn in, but in the circum-
stances it is reasonable to assume that they
are substantial contributors to the pool.
The admitted net earnings for 1930 were
£2249 short of the previous year’s, due to
recessions in the mutton and by-products
markets. A point was clipped off the div.,
reducing it to 11 p.c.; and, according to the
figures, that called for £1096 more than was
earned. However, provision for contingen-
cies is made before the published figures are
sent out, and, taking the past as a guide,
it is not likely that the risks have been
under-estimated.
The financial structure is very solid, of
course: —
1924. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital.. £113,539 £113,547 £113,547 £113,647
Liabilities . . 40,587 48,453 41,699 56,434
Works . . 121,946 116,082 126,266 124,009
Stocks . . 22,861 23,801 22,577 37,987
Hook debts,
cash, invest-
ments, etc. 139,037 157,980 143,340 142,688
At the close of last accounts the more or
less liquid surplus (£124,241, including
stocks) covered the £26,160 of pref. capital
over four and a half times. Allowing bare
cover for the prefs., the balance was equal
to 225. sd. per pound of ord. capital, and
there was a further 28s. 4d. in the written-
down book value of fixed assets.
The prefs., which enjoy priority as to
capital, advance with the ords. in any dis-
tribution beyond 5 p.c. On the market
both classes of scrip fetch 355.; the return
at that price being 6_,2 p.c. on an 11 p.c.
div. basis.
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1923.. 1,699 Nil 1,699 4,486
Reserves.
1924.. 37,179 12J p.c. = 32,500 4,679 193
1925.. 10,408 Nil 10,408 10,601
1926.. 43,699 174 p.c. = 52,500 1,800
April,
1927*. 75,158 20 „ „ 60,000 15,158 16,958
1928.. 44,963 15 „ „ 45,000 16,921
1929.. 62,338 15 „ „ 45,000 17,338 34,259
1930.. 55,003 10 „ „ 30,000 25,003 59,262
*l3 months.
Though headquarters are in Melbourne,
where most of the £300,000 of capital was
subscribed, the plantations, mill and refinery
are all in Kenya, Bast Africa. The co.'s
success lias been due very largely to the
vision and enterprise of its founder, George
R. Mayers, a Queenslander, who died last
year. His son, who has been trained in the
business, has taken his place as the co.'s
managing director.
The co. has shared the trade in a local
and protected market with three other mills.
It has, therefore, not felt the full effects of
the slump in the world’s sugar markets, A
dry' spell affected crushings during the last
term, as this next comparison shows: —
1925. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown .. 14,774 55,713 41,436 36,978
Cane purchased .. 5,299 40,737 39,546 35,494
Sugar (white) pro-
duced . . .. 1,385 8,018 5,723 6,215
Nevertheless it took only 11.6 tons of cane
as against 14.5 tons in the previous term
to produce a ton of sugar; thus the output
of whites was 492 tons better, due largely
to increased efficiency in the factory. Still,
circumstances have brought a reduction in
the selling price df fines. So there was a
slip of £7335 in the declared net result,
which was 15 p.c. on capital compared with
20.7, 14.9, 25 and 14.5 p.c. And since the
outlook is uncertain, 5 p.c. was snipped off
the div., reducing it to 10 p.c. That was
after striking off £20,572 for depreciation, or
£6527 more than in the previous year, and
leaving out of account £3601 written off
development account —apparently £5151 was
spent under that head during the year, leav-
ing the figure at £43,518 when the books
last closed. If the value of the property
has been increased by the amount spent on
development, the £34,495 written off this
item to April 30 last represents an inner
reserve.
Finances are comfortable enough :
1925. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. . . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liability on land .. 3,404
Other liabilities . . 34,982 8,626 26,662
Mill 165,475 142,162 134,602
Land, buildings, etc. .. 45,902 47,517 66,624
Rolling stock, tramways,
plant, etc. . . ■ . 63,347 88,434 93,355
Plantation development 52,434 41,968 43,518
Sugar stocks . . . . 5,975 27,692 28,482
Book debts .. .. 2,856 18,665 17,388
Cash, etc 12,997 13,948 24,456
During the year a new plantation compris-
ing 4052 acres, of which 315 are under cane,
was bought for £20,000. Still, the more or
less liquid surplus (£43,664, including sugar
stocks) was only £BOl5 lighter than at the
(Continued on page 16.)


w
V v
l* v X
e
NO ALTERATION IN PRKE
QUALITY OR QUANTITY OF
DE RESZKE”
j4rm\ ■ Club
THE GREYS'
CIGARETTE/
/TILL
Id FOR V- 9 for 6 ?
'I 'W p
Original imported quality Guaranteed by
GODFREY PHILLIPS (AUST.) PTY. LTD.


If Inflation
Comes
What stocks or property would
stand up best in the event of
inflation?
What can be done with money
to make it reasonably safe?
What would become of investors
in life-assurance policies?
Are there any signs of a world
recovery?
These and many other problems
of most vital interest are dis-
cussed in “The ‘Wild Cat
Monthly.”
MARCH NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY. 2/-
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
w
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7/i© Standard ot Quality throughout the Empire..
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fu9a
Detonators
Cartridges
m
EVERY CAR...EVERY LORRY
Should be lubricated every 500 miles
with
ALEMITE
Lubricating Systems
and Lubricants
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,P00,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman); wff , ....
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMESI WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: <7. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at uanD rra.
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all otner pa is
the world.
til Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
previous balance. The plantations are re-
ported in splendid condition, and the plant
thoroughly efficient; much depends upon that.
As for the current term, ideal growing
conditions have prevailed, a record crushing
is in progress, and the output of whites to
February 28 was 6052 tons. Also some
30,000 coffee-trees have been planted around
the staff quarters. On the other hand, local
consumption of sugar has eased, a new mill
has come into production, and the price of
fines is on the down grade. This and the
possibility of a reduction in the tariff on
sugar when Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika
link up under one control, as they are ex-
pected to do, make the outlook uncertain.
The buoyancy in the share market has
lifted the price of the scrip from 275. 3d. to
295. 6d. over the last few weeks ; a year ago
40s. was paid. At 295. 6d. the return is 6.8
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to 235. lid. in net tangibles, mainly
fixed assets, worth what they can earn.
Ratrut Basin
Promoted by Malay Tin Corp. in 1914 and
registered in Sydney, Ratrut was fairly suc-
cessful with its first property at Renong, on
the west coast of Siam. When this was
worked out the co. acquired a new area at
Sichon, transferred its old plant, and in-
stalled a big new dredge as well. The new
area was divided into three sections, bored
to average 28, 16 and 14 ounces of 61.5 p.c.
metal per cubic yard. But owing to the very
heavy nature of the ground turnover was
severely restricted, thus increasing unit costs
and making the proposition unprofitable with
tin at under £2OO London. Meanwhile, in
order to lighten the floating debt and provide
more working capital, £70,000 worth of 20
p.c. debentures was issued. These are secured
by a floating charge over all the co.’s assets,
and were redeemable in five annual payments.
Unable to meet any of its commitments
on the old debentures, the co. is asking holders
to convert into 70,000 special 10 p.c. first
mortgage debentures of 275. each; 225., in-
cluding 2s. interest due April 2, will be
credited as fully paid. The other ss. (£17,500
in all) is wanted in cash to (1) buy explo-
sives to loosen the wash, (2) repair No. 2
dredge, and (3) bring the stock of spare
parts up to requirements. It is proposed to
redeem these special debentures by annual
instalments ; 2s. Oct. 2, 1932, and ss. there-
tiftcr
E. G. Poole, of Bundi Tin Dredging, who
recently inspected the Sichon property, says
that by shaking the wash with explosives,
and allowing one-third off maximum capacity,
Nos. 1 and 2 dredges should respectively
double and more than treble their average
monthly turnover to date.. With tin at £l5O
London, and allowing 3d. per yard for ex-
plosives, he puts average monthly figures as
follows: —
Turnover Tons
Dredge. c.y. t.o. Value. Costs. Profit.
No. 1 .. 75,142 58.24 £5,324 £2833 £2491
No. 2 . . 142,650 58.50 5,348 3804 1544
Total.. 217,792 116.74 £10,672 £6637 £4035
On that basis the annual profit would be
£48,420; debenture commitments, assuming
that all old holdings are converted, would
call for £33,075 p.a., of which £9450 is
interest. On the same basis, with tin at £l2O
London, the profit would be £21,360 p.a.
Of course everything depends upon the
explosives efficiently breaking up the ground.
Nothing has yet been done in this way, per-
mission to import explosives having been only
recently received from the Siamese Govern-
ment.
Share capital is £280,000. The market
speculates in the scrip at Is.
Manna Hill Goldmine, Stuart Town
(N.S.W.), was discovered by Tom Halliday
20 years ago. After about £lO,OOO worth of
gold was extracted the show was abandoned.
A few years ago the Manna Hill Co. spent
about £7OOO in cutting a track to the mine,
erecting a battery, and doing some develop-
mental work. Then the cash gave out, and
the New Manna Hill Co. was formed, but it
proved too weak financially to continue. A
tribute was next granted to the original dis-
coverer, whose party, up to January, almost
starved on the job. In February 20 tons ore
yielding iSoz. retorted cold, followed by
another 20 tons yielding 620 z., was got from
an 18in. wide reef. This is between the
upper tunnel and the surface in ground pre-
viously regarded as worked out.
* * ijs * *
“Old Warden”: Renewed interest is being
taken in the old Croydon goldfield, which, after
Charters Towers and Gympie, is one of the
richest Queensland has seen. The field was
located in 1885 by the Aldridge brothers,
who got little good out of it. Others fol-
lowed, and the famous Golden Gate line was
located ; its future was then assured. In the 20
years to 1906 the reef, which was worked at
an average depth of 400 ft., yielded 455,2810 z.
of gold worth £1,203,302 from the batteries
alone. The gold, heavily mixed with silver,
was of lower value than that of other Queens-
land fields. The area is a large one, and
there are several other reefs which were more
or less developed before the field was prac-
tically abandoned. Sulphides and increas-
ing water as the shafts went down were
among the difficulties. Diamond drilling
to test the ground down to 600 ft. or more is
now suggested; the field's history justifies the
experiment.
* * * * •
Leaseholders on the Silver Casket field, Mt.
Isa district (Q.), have received the cheque
for the six months’ option recently taken
by B. H. Prop. The Mines Depart-
ment has been asked to send a surveyor to
determine the boundaries before diamond
drilling starts. These leases, nine in number,
are huite distinct from those acquired by the
Harrison interests on the same field.
**« * *
Tanami Gold Mines, in the Northern Ter-
ritory, has got the stamps going. News was
brought to the outside world by the com-
pany’s motor-lorry, which came in to Alice
Springs from the field, 400 miles to the
nor’-west, to replenish stores. Water is re-
ported to be plentiful, and the machinery
is running splendidly. The first parcel of
some 35 tons from an old dump, estimated
to go 12dwt., yielded loz. sdwt. per ton. The
mill had started on high-grade ore from
Laurie’s shaft when the motor party left
Tanami for railhead.
* sfc * *
Golden Lily, Aberfeldy (Vic.), which re-
cently increased the face value of its 30,000
£1 shares to 305., will presently ask for
another 2d. a share. At a distance of 1724 ft.
in the bottom tunnel a reef 10ft. wide was
met with; a little further along the top
another reef was cut. A crosscut from a winze
sunk towards the junction of the two bodies
gave 20 tons of stone averaging 21 oz. gold
per ton. The winze is to be deepened and a
winding and pumping plant installed.
:ji ifc H*
For the year to Nov. 30 last Aberfoyle
Tin, a Tasmanian lode show, received £7843
in calls, making paid capital £44,277. Of
the new money £5003 was spent on plant;
development made off with £2337, and man-
agement charges £652. There was £358 in
the bank and £276 coming to creditors.
Plant erection and development is practi-
cally complete. At 126 ft. the main, shaft is
in quartz 2ft. wide, which is showing tin
freely.
* * * H=
Empire Extended (W.A.), whose chief
achievement has been calls followed by dis-
appointments, recently replenished its till by
the sale of forfeited shares, and has sent out
a prospecting party. It is due for a turn-up.
* * »* *
Paringa, which has twice unsuccessfully
changed its name for luck and which is at
present mostly interested in shows where
operations are suspended, has just issued
another annual report. This shows a loss
of £2151. The co.’s Kalgoorlie leases are
stated to be idle, and so is the Lomah.
mine, Rhodesia, where some time ago the
board reckoned there was a golden hole.
Other assets are mainly investments, which
have depreciated and are not worth very
much now.
* # * *
Only three of Austral Malay’s subsidiaries
are producing at present. Last month time
was lost through native holidays and boiler
repairs. Asam Kumbang’s output realised
£3970 with ore at £72 a ton. Costs were
£1825, leaving a working profit of £2145.
A 6d. div. (£2500) is payable March 23.
Puchong and Pungah recovered ore worth
£4OOO and £9710 respectively; Puchong's
profit was £1165 and Pungah’s £5OlO. Aver-
age yardage costs for the trio were 3.3 d. The
seven Alluvial Tin cos. also came out ahead of
it, the total working profit for the month
being £14,008, of which Changkat contributed
£2648; Kuala Ivampar, £2391; Rawang Tin
Fields, £1575; Kampong Lanjut (one
dredge), £1108; Malim Nawar, £1116;
Kramat, £3150. Rawang Concessions, which
worked only half the month for a profit of
flOSd, will pay 6d. a share (£5000) on
March 27 in sterling equivalent.
* # * «
H. E. C. Robinson, the Sydney mapmaker,
has put out a useful plan which shows
dredging and reefing areas, roads, tracks and
aerodromes on the Morobe goldfields, New
Guinea, with much other information.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Position and prospects of General Indus-
tries and associated cos.? —2038.
Understood to be now making consider-
able losses, through failure of turnover and
inability to reduce overhead to mqtch. But,
while therefore divs. may be absent for some
time, the public continues to use and wear
out, the products of all such cos., so a fairly
quick recovery of turnover is probable when
good times return.
(1) I send gold to the Mint and it allows
me 241 p.c. premium. Why?
(2) Can I claim the gold bonus on the
lot or antf part of the year's supply? If so,
where, when and how?
(3) Why does the Mint pay £3 17s. 101 d.
per ounce fine, while the price is quoted
£4 55.?—1838.
(1) The Commonwealth Bank in March,
1930, decided that the gold-producer should
immediately participate in the rise or fall of
the current rate of exchange. By arrange-
ment with the Commonwealth Bank the
Mint is at present paying a premium of 29i
per cent, on all gold lodged at the Mint for
sale to the Commonwealth Bank. The pre-
mium payable by the Mint is arrived at as
follows: Telegraphic transfer rate, Australia
on London, present premium, £3O 10s. per
cent.; less estimated cost of remitting gold
to London, £1 ss. p.c.; net premium at pre-
sent payable to the producer, £29 ss. p.c.
The premium is subject to alteration without
notice in accordance with the rate of exchange
ruling on the day the gold is lodged at the
Mint.
(2) The proposed bonus on gold must not
be confused with the rate of premium which
is now being paid on gold lodged for sale
at the Mint. The Gold Bounty Act, 1930,
passed last December, applies only to gold-
producers who choose to become registered
under the provisions of this Act, and the
necessary forms may be obtained from the
Collector of Customs in each State, to whom
each gold-producer should now apply for a
registration number. The 1930 Gold Bounty
Act provides for a bonus on all gold pro-
duced in Australia during 1931 in excess of
the average production of the three previous
years. No disbursement, if any, under this
Act can be made until after December 31,
1931. The regulations have not yet been
issued.
(3) You are in error in stating that the
Mint pays £3 17s. per ounce fine. The
Mint both buys and sells on the basis of
standard gold, i.e., sovereign or 22-carat
quality. Pine gold as quoted in the outside
market is 24 carat. Under the Coinage Act
sovereigns and standard gold of 22 carat are
coined at the rate of £3 17s. per ounce.
This price is equivalent approximately to
£4 4s. per ounce of fine gold. The
rates may be expressed thus. The price paid
for gold by the Mint at present works out as
follows: loz. standard gold (22 carat), Mint
price, £3 17s. 104 d.; present premium at £29
ss. per cent., £1 2s. Bid.; total price paid
per standard ounce, £5 Os. 7d.
How does house property stand in the
event of inflation? —2288.
If there is no legislative interference it
is as good as anything; for though rents
may not be worth much during inflation,
rates may not amount to much either. But,
above all, the bricks and mortar are there,
unimpaired, when the trouble is past; and
you can’t say that for many other invest-
ments. In Germany, however, dwelling-
houses were appropriated for public service;
and afterwards a mortgage was imposed on
all landed property as a backing for the new
note issue.
My farm is mortgaged to a hank for a few
hundred pounds. In the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank my children have sums to their
credit. In event of inflation, would it he
advisable to withdraw the Savings Bank
deposits and use them to reduce mortgage?
—2266.
Nothing would be gained. Both deposits
and mortgage would depreciate.- In other
words, you are both a debtor and a creditor,
and your loss (as a depositor) would cancel
your gain (as a mortgagor).
In this country (Maori! and) we have six
millions of notes with a gold hacking of six
millions. Why that gold hacking when Aus-
tralia need have only 25 p.c.? Is it had
finance? —2145.
The associated banks issue their own notes
in M.L.-; they used to pay 3 p.c. p.a. on the
entire issue, and now pay 4J p.c. A large
note issue is therefore unprofitable to the
banks, though it would be highly profitable
to the Government.
In “ Come on, get together” ( B . 25/2/’3l)
the concluding words are —“and once we
get confidence we shall get also that help
from London which seems to us indispens-
able in our present circumstances.” Does
that mean that Australia must borrow more
money? —l9Bs.
It does. Part of Australia’s present trouble
is due to the fact that our banks are being-
bled white to keep our interest bills paid
in London, and even then we have to scratch
up outside help. We have built up tem-
porary loans, in London amounting to some-
thing like 40 millions, and they constitute a
great danger: as soon as possible we must
pay off what we can and .convert the balance
into fixed debt. And The Bulletin makes
that confession without abating in the small-
est degree its anti-borrowing policy. It is
part of the price we have to pay for our past
folly.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
P. J.W.: Prices vary. A fair price for the £1
Australian in Europe is 14s. In Java and “the East,”
notes can be picked up for 11s. 4d J.J.W.: Co. not
hopeless; see B. 5/11/’3O. But it might be safer,
and less costly in the long run, to transfer to
sounder office... .A.H.; Cannot trace East Coast
Development Co J.D.W.: (1) So long as the
co. has debts to pay off, or rights of other share-
holders to adjust, you are liable for calls. (2)
Moratorium Act won’t help you. (3) Almost certainly.
(4) Write to liquidator for a statement of affairs;
you should be entitled to 0ne.... Aya: Don’t know
them. What is their address ?.... H.D.8.: Lander
Oilfields not in liquidation, but operations have been
suspended owing to lack of funds. Raising of fresh
capital will depend on success or otherwise of
other cos. in the vicinity. To save expense, accounts
have not been published recently.... Queenslander:
(1) A speculation; and remember the other 12s.
might be called up any time. (2) Well, it could
refer to Gold Bonds floated in U.S.A J.T.J.:
Gold Bounty Act 1930 is applicable only to gold
produced in Australia. It is not payable on gold
mined in Maoriland.... F.C.P.: Placer market im-
proved on the success of the special aeroplanes in
landing the heavy machinery on the field. Also the
hydro-electric scheme is well forward, and reports
on ground to be worked continue favorable....
W.H.T.: Matters hung up waiting for better times.
None of the projects finalised. Shares not listed,
and no recent kerb quotations... .E.J.G.; (1) Apply
to the liquidator, A. G. Noble, 16 Barrack-street,
Sydney. (2) The “Wild Cat” did nothing of the
sort. " It said repeatedly that investment in the
Merron Co. was only for people who could afford
to take big risks for high returns. (3) Only
dormant; but pretty hopeless... .J.W.L.: Hard to
pick; it is all a gamble. Elders, probably
R.C.S.: (1) Well, it looks the safer of the two.
(2) It is only safe against inflation if there is a
proviso that both interest and principal shall be
paid in sterling (£ English) or its equivalent in
Australian money... .G.E.R.: N 0.... W.A.D.: No
bank, savings or other, is proof against the effects
of inflation. Interest earnings are included in
income subject to unemployment tax... .Premium:
Of the mutual offices, A.M.P. and National Mutual
have the largest funds; if you prefer control by
a management financially interested in making profits,
the M.L.C J.Y.X.: Williams’ paid capital is
£397,029 and at last account it owed £33,000 on
mortgage. It owns, besides £34,087 of theatre
premises (leasehold and freehold), £422,500 of
shares in other cos., practically all Union Theatres,
Ltd. This latter co. operates a great chain of
picture-houses; Williams are merely shareholders in
it, along with other cos. Union has numerous sub-
sidiaries ; to two of them, which own the State
theatres, it has guaranteed an 8 p.c. div. on
£600,000 pref. capital... .J.K.C.: (1) No. (2)
Bonds are not listed. The co. may be able to sell
for you; write the secretary... ,V.S.: Not unless
you are prepared to take a large risk; thus far
development is very promising. .. .XYZ:. “Credit
and Currency Control”; Copland. “Purchasing
Power and the £ Australian”; Brigden B. and
A.: A fair gamble at long odds. .. .R.S.C.: Don’t
think it a good time to sell; inflation wouldn’t hurt
you much.


e
00 Ho
RSE
Whisky
w


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Dearest Enemy”
Criterion (com. Saturday) “The First Mrs. Fraser”
Stats Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Sons o’ Guns”
State Movies and Talkies
*
Making a Movie
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes:—
Well, I weigh 7$ stone, I have fair hair,
passionate blue eyes, and I love chocolates, I
mean, you will want to know those things
about me. I mean, I have become a film
actress.
It came about this way.
The Dramatic Critic came to me one day
and said the legitimate stage was up to mud,
in fact there soon wouldn’t be any. And how
can a man be a Dramatic Critic if there
isn’t any drama? I ask you. Well, he said,
he had thought it over and he was going in
for the movies. Because, if he produced his
own plays and then criticised them, well,
they would be sure of one fair notice.
Well, he actually had his first scenario in
his pocket and it seems he had positively
got a syndicate to put up the money. Well,
it seems the amount wasn’t what you’d call
excessive. I mean, the syndicate had thought
of starting a midget-golf course when the
slump came. So economy was in the stand-
ing orders.
Well, it seems he had thought of every-
thing. He had engaged an operator and
hired a studio that was vacant through the
artist that rented it learning that he could
register as an unemployed and get susten-
ance. Well, the Dramatic Critic said the
cast would be small but selective. He would
double the parts of hero and villain and the
operator could take the minor rolls while he
turned the handle and I would be the heroine
at the official salary of £9O per week, to be
paid out of the profits, if any. I said, what
about my girl friend and he said there was
no part for her but she could be robes
mistress.
Well, I said 0.K., I’m game, and he said
are you ready to go on location to-morrow?
I said, certainly, if it’s nothing a decent girl
shouldn’t do, what does it mean, anyhow?
And he, said, it means you’ve got to be at
the studio at 9 a.m.
“Henry had uncanny eyes which saw
through things.”
Well, we locationed 0.. K. at nine o’clock
sharp because we were all thrilled and
excited because, as the Dramatic Critic said,
we were assisting at the accouchement of
the Australian film industry. I don’t know
about that, said the operator, a rather crude
young man, but his eyes were friendly. I
thought we were here to shoot a picture.
So we are, said the Dramatic Critic, and
coughing nervously he drew, a manuscript
covered with inkstains out of qis pocket and
read as follows :
THE MAN WITH THE X-RAY EYES.
CHAP. ONE.
Henry Cartwright was born of rich but honest
parents in a fourth-floor flat in St. Hilda. Henry
had uncanny eyes which saw through things. When
his father brought home a stick of chewing-gum,
his jammy fingers would go straight to the pocket,
and he had an awkward habit of trying to walk
through the walls of his nursery in the manner of
a blue-bottle fly on a window pane. But at the
age of four and a half Henry had outgrown this
idiosyncrasy.
Well, said the operator when the Dramatic
Critic had finished, it’s all one to me but
where’s your four-year-old baby. Well, the
Dramatic Critic hadn’t thought of that so
he said, we will leave that question for the
moment and proceed to
CHAP. TWO.
Henry, noiv a handsome youth of 18, sat at a
table at the Waratah Cafe. His high forehead,
thin , nostrils and mobile mouth disclosed a sen-
sitive disposition with a great capacity for the
appreciation of beauty; but his eyes were the weird
orbs of his childhood. The physiological change
from youth to man had restored his early faculty,
which was nothing less than the ability to see
through objects as the Rontgen rays penetrate them.
To his tortured eyes, so avid of beauty, the room
was full of grinning skeletons and cake and sand-
wiches visibly digesting. To escape this painful
spectacle he was sitting moodily staring at his
feet through the table. Suddenly the bony hand
of death was thrust between him and his dinner.
He started back in alarm only to discern a rather
attractive waitress holding up .the menu for him
to look at.
Well, it was beginning to dawn on me
that as .a scenario-writer the Dramatic Critic
was a bit of an amphibian. I mean, he was
equallj at sea on land and water. The
operator seemed to have come to the same
conclusion. He said, it’s all one to me, but
where are you going to get a cafe full of
skeletons ?
Do you think we could get Prof. Wood-
Jones at the University to help us? said
the Dram. Critic. I’m paid to shoot, not
think, said the operator. Yes, said the D.
Critic, and he looked at the operator as if
he wouldn’t have been in the least surprised
to find his name in the 1931 edition of
“Who’s Who in the Insect World.” So
we proceeded to
CHAP. THREE.
Henry sat on his bed, staring with gloomy in-
difference through the carpet at the skeletons of the
family occupj/ing the flat below. Simeon Staylace,
his greatest friend and a rising young doctor, paced
in front of him, arguing vehemently. He wished
him to devote his astounding faculty to the cause
of science. Fame and fortune awaited him. With
his assistance present methods of radio photography
could be discarded. Surgeons •would bring their
•patients to Cartwright, who would sketch their
internal organs as a painter paints a portrait.
But Henry would have none of it. For him the
whole universe was a charnel-house of hideous bones,
and he regarded his eccentricity, not as a blessing,
but as an intolerable infliction. Wherever he looked
his terrible eyes gave him evidence, not available
to ordinary men, of the duplicity of human nature.
Only the day before he had visited his mother's
grave, and looking down through the daisies he had
been grieved to see that the coffin, instead of con-
taining the remains of his respected parent, was
filled with bricks.
Well, said the operator, we might do some-
thing with that. There’s a good scene there
"Henry, now a handsome
youth of eighteen.”
with Henry
sitting on his
bed and Simeon
walking up
and down talk-
ing to him.
They mustn’t
be in the pic-
ture at one
and the same
time, said the
Dramatic
Critic, because
I’m doubling
the parts. It’s
all one to me,
said the opera-
tor. And we
can throw in
a shot of Adam
Lindsay Gor-
don’s grave at
Brighton
Cemetery, I
said. And I
know an un-
dertaker who’ll
fix up the coffinful of bricks, said the other
girl. Well, that’s good, said the Dramatic
Critic, looking quite relieved at our
enthusiasm.
CHAP, FOUR.
Sir Drummond Fyfe, the famous radiologist and
eye specialist, sat in his opulent consulting-room
staring amazed at Henry, who had just furnished
him with overwhelming proofs of his miraculous
faculty. He had enumerated correctly the various
articles containejd in the doctor’s strong-box—a
bank overdraft, two pawntickets and a packet of
breath-preservers. He, too, had endeavored! to enlist
Henry in the cause of science. But his patient was
adamant. All he required from the great doctor
was the removal of his unfortunate eccentricity .
An hour later Henry, wearing curiously-tinted
spectacles, stepped into the street. He looked timor-
ously but eagerly at a passing cab-horse and a
cry of involuntary delight burst from his lips. The
glasses had removed his disability.
Well, said the operator, I’m glad to see
there are no skeletons in that chapter. No,
said the Dramatic Critic.
CHAP. FIVE.
Seated on a fallen blue-gum overlooking the
Southern Ocean, Henry plighted his troth to Marion
Merrywether. Sweeping his manly figure with her
passionate sloe eyes, she felt that no shadow could
ever come between them. But already one no bigger
than a man’s hand had begun to show above Love’s
fair horizon. Almost unconsciously Marion had begun
to wonder why Henry, even when shooting the
breakers, was never without his curiously-tinted
glasses. She yearned to know the color of his eyes.
The second week of their engagement she impulsively
asked him to remove the spectacles. He started
back in horror and with a despairing cry fled
from her sight.
That’s a lovely chapter, said the other girl,
let’s go to Beaumaurice at o'nce, the after-
noon couldn’t be nicer. I think Black Rock
wo'uld be better, I said. There’s no surf
at either, but it’s all one to me, said the
operator. . „ .'. ,
Well, we all got into the Dramatic Critic s
car and went to Black Rock, and the opera-
tor used up several hundred feet_ of film, and
I figured in my first sequence, if you know
what that means, and then we had afternoon
tea at the syndicate’s expense, and then the
operator took some more of me against the
setting sun for moonlight effects, and then
we had a slap-up dinner at the syndicate’s
expense and then we came home, the other
girl sitting behind with the operator while
he explained about the fine points of interior
lighting, etc. . _ . , , ~
Well, next morning we located at the
studio again, and the Dram. Critic said he
was quite pleased with our progress so far
and he read
CHAP. SIX.
A month later Marion and Henry met again on
the same breaker and the engagement was resumed
on the understanding that she should never repeat
the request that had so alarmed her lover. They
spent a halcyon six months of courtship and it was
not until after the bathing season that the .shadow
again began to creep over their relations. Bravely
Marion tried to hide in her heart the doubts that
assailed her. Henry was sensitive of her inmost
spirit and the dark-tinted spectacles became a sinister
spectre hanging over their lives. Henry dared not
reveal to Marion the secret of his grisly power;
nor dared he remove his glasses and allow his naked
eyes to shatter the fair vision of his love.
Well, there didn’t seem to be anything
special to be done about that chapter, so
the Dramatic Critic passed on to
CHAP. SEVEN.
Simeon Stay lace had loved Marion from childhood.
He paced her drawing-room now with_ troubled feet.
“The grisly hand, of death
was thrust between him and
his dinner.”
He had just
read the an-
nouncement of
her engagement
to his friend.
Possessed as he
was of the
secret of
Henry’s eyes
he had hurried
to the house to
stop the union.
His thoughts
were interrupted
by the entrance
Of the objects
of his medi-
tations. They
had been choos-
ing the ring.
Ignoring their
greeting, with
a swift move-
ment Simeon
strode across to
Henry and
snatched from
his nose the
mysterious spec-
tacles. With
a cry of terror
Henry stepped
back, covering
his eyes with
his shaking hands.
“Look at your future bride,” snarled Simeon.
Slowly, helplessly, as if moved by some power
outside himself, Henry drew his hands from before
his face and stared across at Marion. For soma
moments no one spoke. Then a cry of rapture
broke from Henry’s lips. Instead of the grinning
skeleton he had steeled himself to see, he beheld a
radiant figure into the depths of whose chaste and
lovely soul his gaze appeared to penetrate. Turning
his eyes towards Simeon he saw the dark and
•jealous soul of a disappointed man.
The alchemy of love had transmuted his strange
power of seeing through things, lifting it from a
material to a spiritual plane.
Well, when the Dramatic Critic finished
that chapter he paused and there was a deep
silence. By his manner you could tell that
he thought that was the picture’s great
moment. Well, nobody said anything, so
at length he proceeded with
CHAP. EIGHT.
The Great Barrier Reef stretches for 500 miles
along the north-east coast of Queensland, fronting
the long surges of the blue Pacific. Within its
arms, like fleets of sheltering luggers, lie uncounted
thousands of lovely tropic islands. On one of the
fairest of these Marion and Henry made their home.
The ugly soul of civilisation had tortured Henry’s
mind beyond endurance. Here he need only see the
simple childlike vices of his native servants.
He had discarded for ever the tinted glasses. His
eyes were soothed by the frank face of nature and
the glorious apparition of his wife’s perfection.
[ THE END.]
Well, after the Dramatic Critic said THE
END there was another deep silence, and
at last he turned to the operator and said
somewhat sharply, Well, what are you think-
ing? And the operator said, I was thinking
that as there’s no action in chap, six I might
go out to the saleyards and shoot a coupler
flocks of sheep and perhaps some dipping
and branding, and maybe a herd of cattle.
But I don’t want any sheep or cattle, said
the Dramatic Critic. I never saw an Aus-
tralian drama without one or the other, said
the operator. But I don’t want them, said
the Dramatic Critic. 0.K., it’s all one to
me, said the operator.
There’s one thing I’d like to know, said
the other girl. What is it? said the Dram.
Critic. Will you want the robes mistress
when you go on location to Queensland?
said the other girl. Because I think being
on location on the Barrier Reef would be
just lovely. I don’t know yet, said the
Dramatic Critic gloomily. He seemed to be
quite depressed as if his art were breathing
with difficulty an Alien Atmosphere.
Well, we broke up after that, and the
Dramatic Critic told us he would let us
know by mail of the date, hour and place
of the next location. If the publicity misses
The Bulletin you won’t forget to look out
for “The Man with the X-Ray Eyes,” featur-
ing Dulicia Drake —that’s my screen name—’
will you?
* * *
“The Women Have Their Way,” by the
brothers Quintero, put on by the Student
Theatre Society at the Proscenium Club in
“‘It’s all one to me; said the operator.”
Melbourne, turned out to be the same brand
of Spanish molasses as “A Hundred Years
Ago,” by the same authors, which the late-
lamented Repertorians did a few years back.
A.piece so fragile hardly bears critical hand-
ling, however light, and one wonders wdiy
anybody bothered to import into the Eng-
lish language a line of goods which J. M.
Barrie can supply to an unlimited extent.
However, the play gave Miss Alion’s pupils
something to cut their teeth on, light comedy
being a dashed sight harder than the direst
tragedy for amateurs to do. Frank Cham-
berlain gave a pretty lamentable performance
as Don Julian Figueredo, the parish priest,
but Ada Rowed put some character and
vitality into Concha Puerto, a village belle.
“Friends,” a curtain-raiser by Herbert
Farjeon, was another bucolic tale which con-
cerned a doctor who had a gentleman’s agree-
ment with the undertaker to provide the
latter with the raw material of his industry,
so to speak. After the first five minutes it
dawned on the present writer that Clarence
Last, Desmond Robinson and John Haynes
were talking in the Irish language, after
which all was more or less clear. The
Student Society made a very good fist of this.
The rough-and-tumble Celtic humor was more
in their line than the Andalusian wit.
* * *
Although there is still some doubt as to
where Mr. Lyons stands, there is no uncer-
tainty about “Sons o’ Guns” being at Mel-
bourne Royal. Such is the success of this
masterpiece of musical comedy that the Gil-
bert and Sullivan outbreak has been post-
poned until after Easter.. The G. and S.
co. will therefore have a longer season in
Adelaide.
&
At Sydney Opera House the breezy com-
pany headed by Nat Phillips, with Joe Law-
man and Syd Beck as offsiders, changed bill
on Saturday to “Laughing Faces,” another
good gloom-chaser. Their brand of revue-
vaudeville, plus the low charge at the gate,
has collared a permanent audience, which
turns up week after week, and looks like
doing so for the duration of the Great D.
* * *
A cloudburst of theatrics is due to descend
on Sydney this week. Roland McCarthy’s
co., with Augustus Neville as Bottom and
mostly amateurs in the lesser roles, will put
on “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” at the
Savoy to-morrow (Thursday). On Friday
the smell of Wirths’ elephants will pervade
the Glaciarium, and next day Clara Butt
and Kennerley Rumford will declare the con-
cert season open at the Town Hall. The
same day “The First Mrs. Fraser,” whose
other name is Ethel Morrison, will replace
“On the Spot” at the Cri., and the Pepysian
comedy “And So to Bed” will take the
boards at the Savoy. In the following week
there will be more Butt and more Shakspook,
and on the 28th Janette Gilmour and (Charles
Sylber will be in “Laughing Eyes” at the
St. James.
“She yearned to know the color of his eyes.”
The most interesting art show held’ in
Sydney this year is the advertising display
at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries. It is a
cosmopolitan sort of affair in which Uncle
Sam, John Bull and some of the Continental
cousins are represented, but the most
brilliant and effective posters, labels, cata-
logue covers and black-and-white news ads.
in the show are the work of Australian
artists. In only a few instances are these
signed, and in some' of these cases there is
room for doubt whether the signature repre-
sents an individual of an organisation, but
the degree of merit is very high. Draughts-
manship, sound, accurate and convincing, is
the basis of these eye-arresting challenges to
public attention, and in the management of
color schemes the lads and lassies of the com-
mercial studios show courage and ability.
The arty painter will tell you these things are
superficial, artificial, deliberately baited to
catch the groundlings, unworthy of serious
attention. But the people who produce them
could make some stinging retorts to that, if
they cared to take the trouble. So far as this
observer is concerned, there are at least a
dozen posters in the show he would sooner
live with than with the best of at least a
thousand pictures in the National Gallery.
Poverty Point
w
“Soothed by the frank face of Nature and
the glorious apparition of his wife’s
perfection.”
“I-lamfat”: Just-dead Jimmy Atholwood
had his greatest moment on the night he to'ok
the place of Julius Knight in “If I Were
King.” Knight, just then suffering very
much from a sense of his own importance,
had sent J.C.W. a note saying that his
doctor had ordered him immediate rest. He
was sorry that the public w’ould have to be
disappointed, but the medical command was
imperative. Williamson was determined that
the public would not be disappointed, and he
thought of Atholwood, who made such a hit
that Knight decided to go on next even-
ing. It was probablv that help in time
of trouble that caused Williamson to remem-
ber Atholwood in his will; he was one of
the last survivors of the mummers so re-
membered by James Cassius.


ETIQUETTE.
“When interviewed, Mr. Scullin said he had nothing of interest to announce. Referring to the no-confidence motion, he added: ‘It is not etiquette for a Govern-
ment to make important decisions while its life is in danger.’”
TED: “This looks like trouble, Jim. What are you going to do about it?”
JIM (sadly): “Nothing, Ted. It wouldn’t be etiquette.”
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Our Wool Marketing
Dear Bulletin, — A recent fall in the
London wool market of 15 p.c. to 20 p.e.,
corresponding as it did with the peak of
exchange rates, effectively demonstrated that
world prices of wool are not based, as we
are led to believe, on London values, but
that this market takes its cue from Aus-
tralia, the greatest centre of production.
This is surely a strong argument in support
of those who believe that with organised
marketing, Government assistance and a
fixed minimum price, the Australian grower
can be assured of a fair return for his labor
and capital, and the Australian nation a
reasonable value for our principal export
commodity. Stability in these two directions
will do much to relieve our troubles, both
external and internal. —Yours faithfully,
Feanic W. Paltridge.
H.-P. Agreements in Westralia
Dear Bulletin, —Dealings under so-called
hire-purchase agreements are governed in
Westralia by Common Law, being excluded
from the provisions of the W.A. Consolidated
Bills of Sale Act 1925. Some of the results
are truly shocking. These three cases, pro-
perly authenticated, are all within the law:
Case 1. —A machine was first sold under h.-p.
agreement for £193, and re-possessed in default;
total payments amounting to £93. The second sale
was for £159, of which £lOO was paid, default
being £5O. The third sale was for £l2O, default
being £45. The fourth sale was for £lOO, which
presumably was paid in full. The vendor on these
figures had received £375 in cash, and yet was
owed £lBB, for the recovery of which summonses
had been issued, for a machine valued new at less
than £2OO.
Case 2. —A tractor was sold for £626, the holder
of the hire-purchase agreement receiving £475 in
cash before default was made. The farmer called a
meeting of his creditors, and the vendor re-possessed
the machine, which he then sold for £275, at the
same time claiming upon the estate of the farmer
for the £l5O not paid. This returned 7s. 6d. in
the £, so the vendor of the tractor received in all
£BO4 for the machine, which new was valued at
£625.
Case 3.—A farmer purchased a car for £3OO,
paid £2OO and defaulted, his estate being assigned.
The vendor re-possessed the car and sold it for
£2OO, claiming against the estate of the farmer
for the unpaid balance of £lOO, and from it he
received £37 10s. In this case the £3OO car
realised £437 10s. to the vendor.
I could cite other cases, but these should
suffice to prove the injustice of the present
law. —Yours, Cygnis Insignis.
Waiting for Mr. Lang
Dear Bulletin, —It is a matter of darned
weariness, this waiting for Premier Auld
Lang Syne, of N. S. Wales, to repudiate
something, or to default on something.
Formal repudiation might involve the diffi-
cult passing of a law through a two-House
Legislature, but failure to pay an instalment
of interest when due is a one-man job, and
it doesn’t require a very big man either. A
dwarf is sufficient, especially a dwarf who
can say truly that he hasn’t a spare copper
of his own to fly with, and that he can’t
borrow a copper except by putting pressure
ou the lender, who has been squeezed pretty
dry already. Lang gave his positive assur-
ance a while back that he would default on
his interest payments to British creditors
unless he got certain concessions, and it
would have been a fine large' “gesture,” as
the term goes nowadays, if he had defaulted
in time for the East Sydney by-election,
instead of scratching like a maddened hen
to raise the money for a small bill that fell
due just before that event, and assuring the
public that insolvency had again been averted.
Why should it have been averted? Lang
swears that default is his policy, and that
it is a mighty good policy. I don’t think it
is a good policy but I may be wrong, and
in any case if it is coming I want it to come
in my time so that I may be here to see it.
The only good thing about the Great War
was that it came when I was around to see it.
If Lang would only default in a small
experimental fashion to begin with, and keep
his promise by busting, however mildly, he
would stand alone in the British Empire, and
the joy of watching to see what incompetents
like Scullin and Theodore and Earle Page
and Bruce (who would probably break his
neck rushing back to politics) and Moses
Gabb would say and do would be a glorious
thrill. If Lang’s default had been in the
papers on the morning of Saturday, the 7th,
and the air had been black all day with
cablegrams and special editions, and Sydney
had been drunk and glorious and full of Red
banners and Red processions, and Labor had
won the Sydney election by 20,000
majority, then it would have been a real day
instead of the drab affair it was. And
Sunday would have been a real morrow, for
Moscow would have been illuminated in
honor of the Australian revolution, and might
have taken fire as it did in 1812. —Yours
hopefully, Bildad.
When Ireland Had Inflation
Dear Bulletin, —So far, I have not seen
any reference to the debased coinage of
Ireland, whose evils are so graphically
described in Macaulay’s “History of Eng-
land.” It may be recalled that when James
11. was driven from the throne of England
in 1688 he crossed over to Ireland and was
warmly supported by a majority of the popu-
lation. Want of money was, however, a
worry. The state of revolution in the coun-
try, along with confiscations and proscrip-
tions on a gigantic scale, had had the inevit-
able effect on capital. Trade was at an end
and capital had been withdrawn in great
masses from the island. Now pick up
Macaulay:—
The poverty of the Treasury was the necessary
effect of the poverty of the country; public pros-
perity could be restored only by the restoration of
private prosperity; and private prosperity could be
restored only by years of peace and security. James
was absurd enough to imagine that there was a
more speedy and efficacious remedy. He could, he
conceived, at once extricate himself‘from his financial
difficulties The right of coining was undoubtedly
a flower of the prerogative; and in his view the right
of coining included the right of debasing the coin.
Pots, pans, knockers, pieces of ordnance which had
long been past use, were carried to the mint. In
a short time lumps of base metal, nominally worth
near a million sterling, intrinsically worth about
a sixtieth of that sum, were in circulation. A royal
edict declared these pieces to be legal tender in
all cases whatsoever. A mortgage for a thousand
pounds was cleared off by a bag of counters made
out of old kettles Of all classes the tradesmen
of Dublin were the greatest losers.... To the recol-
lection of the confusion and misery which had been
produced by James’s coin must be in part ascribed
the strenuous opposition which 35 years later large
classes offered to the Government of George the
First....
Here in history we can envisage inflation,
the rise to the price level of 1929 and even
beyond, while at the same time it is pleasant
to speculate on mortgages being paid in
debased currency to disgruntled Jewish mort-
gagees.—Yours, D. P. 0.
Compulsory Medical Inspection
“Dialectiea” (B. 11/3/’3l) is wrong, medi-
cally speaking, twice, in his plea for licensed
prostitution as a cure for sexual outrages.
(1) The cause of most sex outrages is not
fundamentally unappeased sex hunger. The
man who goes about committing sex out-
rages (as did his friend of 28) is abnormal,
and only a stupidly-run community like ours
puts him in gaol. He ought to be having
mental treatment in a hospital, the possible
failure of which would entitle his safe cus-
tody by the State for all time.
(2) Government prostitutes could never
be guaranteed immune from disease. Even
if they were inspected once a week it would
only need infection to arrive on Monday
afternoon for dozens of clients to be infected
before the next Monday. Also the enthusi-
astic amateur who refuses to link up with a
recognised firm may carry more infection
than the professional lady who is compelled
to take reasonable precautions for the sake
of continuation of her business.
Apart from the moral question (which
does not come into the argument) the only
satisfactory way to prevent infection is the
free distribution of the war-time “blue lights,”
with full instructions how to use them. That
cut down disease enormously, though, of
course, there is no absolutely certain pre-
ventive.
The man who says self-control in these
matters is impossible is a liar. Any psycho-
logist will tell you that the sex urge can be
(and is mostly) transferred into some other
sphere of usefulness. The ordinary over-
sexed individual is one devoid of hobbies and
athletic recreations. Providing he is not
abnormal, no man is compelled to indulge
himself sexually.—Yours, Claude (Eso-
phagus.
Writing Down Interest and Wages
Dear Bulletin, — All fixed debts have in-
creased by reason of the increase in pur-
chasing power of money. A debt of £lOO
in 1929 will buy £l2O worth of goods now.
The depression has been of benefit to fixed
incomes (civil servants, etc.) and creditors
of 1929. If everything went down together
we would not mind. Why should there be
months of painful legal battle over each
award and ill-feeling to decide that wages
must come back at least one-sixth? In one
Act the position of all can be decided, and
we will know where we are.
Theodore says he will cure this inequality
by issuing more money. But that does not
help me as a debtor before 1930. How do
I get that new money? How will it help
cost of production to come to world parity?
It is subject to all the objections against in-
flation.
We workers hate the very word “repudia-
tion.” We don’t trust inflation. Reduction
of interest on all internal debts and of all
wages awards will satisfy Labor ideals; even
the Nationalists should welcome it. The only
people to whom it will not appeal are those of
Communistic color, because it means a steady
return to prosperity. There was a sucess-
fnl scheme amongst the Jews for reducing
debts after a certain time. Why not try it
again? Has not Mussolini done likewise to
save Italy?—Yours, Simple Simon.
Our Debt to Britain
Dear Bulletin, —Consider our debts to
Britain. They must be paid'back in gold.
Why, when gold was not borrowed? Most
of our original debts were contracted in the
six years surrounding 1920. In 1920 I
got 30 per cent, more francs for a sovereign
in France than for a Bradbury. Had I
known the ropes, no doubt I could have got
more. No, what we borrowed was credit
expressed in Bradburys, and what we
actually got, as The Bulletin often points
out, was a supply of rolls of silk, tractors,
etc. Now we have to pay back two rolls and
two tractors for each one we borrowed.
Britain, of course, rushed back to a gold
standard because, being a creditor nation, it
paid her financiers to do so, thereby auto-
matically doubling the real values of the
p.n.’s she held. This may be legal, but it
is not
Seriously, if the Court of International
Justice is still functioning, I think the mat-
ter should be taken there, as we have not
a hope of paying off the present burden with-
out making a pauper nation of Australia for
a century.— Ex-Dig.
A Trade Opening
Dear Bulletin, —The higher class Chinese
have of late years taken kindly to imported
wines, showing a preference for the sweeter
types, and especially the sparkling varieties,
of which Australia produces many sterling
examples. According to the last figures avail-
able, 23,000 dozen of sparkling wines and
40,000 dozen of still ivere imported into
China in the year, while 300,000 gallons were
landed in bulk. Of the whole lot Australia
supplied only six dozen quarts! All the rest
came from France or Britain.
There are many reasons why Australia
should win a good profit from this
Chinese trade, if the venture is properly
handled. Of the quality of its better class
wines there can be no question, and there is
nothing to fear on this account from the
European article. But there must be a high
standard for export, for the Chinese consumer
is a shrewd buyer, and the shipping of
inferior qualities would speedily be detected,
with the probable loss of the market for
good and all. We have the advantage of
being much closer to China than the Euro-
pean suppliers, and have half a dozen lines
of direct communication. On the road to
China lie other markets like the Dutch East
Indies and Malaya, all at present served from
Europe. Surely someone can be found with
enterprise and energy enough to pioneer this
promising field. —Yours, Centurion.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
iji iffH
I;!;! 33!!!]!!!!
f iSMIi;:!
'' p TIMEx
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Day. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. •• 25/- 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance .
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Dilector: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R, V. BOOTH.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
The World’s largest Commercial Forestry Co.
Subscribed Share Capital •. . . £241 339
Amounts subscribed for bonds exceeds £3,500 000
Funds lodged with Trustees exceed . ... ..... ... . . . £520 000
(Including £287,012 invested in Australian Government Securities.)
Area planted Approx. 120,000 acres
Bankers Bank of New Zealand and, their Agents
Head Office Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney
Sole Brokers Smith, Wylie & Co., Ltd. •
Branches throughout Australia, New Zealand; and at London, Bombay, Singapore, Sourabaya,
Hong Kong, Shanghai and San'Francisco.
MOVES WATER RAPIDLY
But Without Shock or Jar
because each size is geared to give 30-33
strokes per minute,' the maximum output pace
for windmill pumps.
UNSURPASSED QUALITY AND DURABILITY
Twin Machine-cut Gears (true within 1-1000th
of an inch) work under oil in a jointless bowl.
Bearings (split for easy renewal) of best
quality ' bronze, machined-true—2. polished Steel
motion guides. Oil-circulation to .every work-
ing part and back into sump without loss.
. Ball-bearing- turntable and. all enclosed parts
accessible as never before.
' Catalog free —write now.
SKY WINDMILL CO.,
56 DAY STREET, SYDNEY.
FREIGHT FREE INTERSTATE.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Honi Pikau” : Henare Waipiro, filled with
righteous indignation, told me about his
troubles with old Taki te Taipo. “Py tripes,
ehoa, he te pad man t’at ferrer; try to ket,
me put in ehokey; say I pinch his rewi
[potatoes], pout 10 pobs’ wort.” “And did
you?” I asked. “No proomin’ fear, poss!”
declared Henare with unction. “I onry pinch
pout toonsix wort!”
“Murrungurry” : A boundary-
rider in the Bulloo Lake
(N.S.W.) region, with an eye
on emergency, trained his dog
to' tjike messages to the home-
stead from any part of the run.
He would 101 l under a bush for
a while, then tie a handkerchief
round Barker’s neck and send
him off. At the homestead the
cook removed the handkerchief
find fed the messenger. The
idea worked till the cook went
to town and got drunk. Every-
body on the place knew the
dog, and when they saw Barker
come in with the SOS-collar
they just remarked that lie was
doing dispatch drill. When the
owner didn’t turn up next day
there was a rush to undo the
collar. The long-expected had
happened; the boundary-rider
was lying 12 miles out with
broken ribs and an injured hip.
* * *
“E.S.”: We have two 1 crea-
tures of the wild that would
keep any place clear of flies and
mosquitoes if they were encour-
aged. The champion fly-hunters
are the little geckoes which dart
about the walls and ceilings—
and even over a person’s body
when he is lying down. They
run as nimbly across a smooth
ceiling and down a wall as they
do on a floor. They are very
common in the north-west of
N.S.W., where they grow to
four or five inches long and an
inch wide. The mosquito-van-
quishers are the little insect-
eating bats, which are often
seen fluttering about in country-
houses. They quickly clear a
room of mosquitoes, and, if un-
molested and given access to it,
or allowed to shelter under the
roof in daylight hours, they will
keep the place permanently free
of the pest. On the Richmond
River I lived in a farmhouse
that had no ceilings, and there
were always half a dozen bats
clinging near the top end of the rafters.
Though there were many swamps and gullies
in the locality we never had to use curtains
or burn cowdung.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: A phrase in Patricia
O’Rane’s story “Impulse” in a recent Bul-
letin — “the almost superstitious horror of
the paganly-minded at the sight of beauty
maimed and broken”—reminds me that
savage Binghi had a strong leaning that way.
I have known full-bloods from at least seven
widely-scattered tribes, and in all cases they
were averse to the wanton destruction of
trees or plants. Even when getting boughs
for the construction of their mia-mias or for
spears supplications for “indulgence” were
made to the .sylvan deity affected, aceom-
ROADSIDE COURTESIES.
MOTORISTS: "Hi! Hi! Pull off a bit and give us a chance."
BULLOCKY BILL: "Pull orf? D'yer think I'm drivin' a blinkin' aeroplane?"
A LESSON IN ECONOMICS
JOHN THOMAS: “Well, if they banks did all go broke, how would it affect we? We
boin’t got no money in banks, have us?”
WILLIAM HENRY: “No, ’tain't that Way ’tall. ’St[?]s way. Breweries they’d lose all
THEIR MONEY ; then they’d charge we more for our beer to get ’tall back again—
do ’ee see now?”
panied by promises (always meticulously
honored) to select boughs the loss of which
would be leasf harmful to the tree. Some
Westralian tribes went to the length of
planting seeds from a tree before boughs from
it were gathered.
* * * *
“Cygnis Insignis”: The classical case of
the perils the bush holds for those who have
no experience of it is that of Richard Cun-
ningham, who lost his life when accompany-
ing Major Mitchell as botanist on his
second exploratory expedition to the
Bogan, Macquarie and . Darling rivers
in 1835. Cunningham’s extreme
botanical zeal, coupled with utter lack
of bush craft, necessitated 'Mitchell
warning him on several occasions
against losing himself. Early in April
the heedless Cunningham left the
main party to join Mitchell, who had
gone ahead to a waterhole to ’ fix the
night’s camp. He strayed
into dry country and was
never seen again. Mit-
chell’s search.for the lost
botanist showed that
although never more than
a mile from the: expedi-
tion’s deep and heavy
tracks, and rarely out of
sight of the blue-gums
that grew in the' neigh-
boring creek, lie never
approached them to
search for water. For a
day the wanderer actu-
ally travelled along the :
banks of the Bogan with-
out knowing it, and he
must have been perishing
from thirst. Early in
May Mitchell found the
dead body of (Cunning-
ham’s horse and some
personal effects in a de-
serted native camp. Some
months afterwards it
transpired that, after
having lost his reason,
the botanist was found by
a tribe of natives. His strange actions terri-
fied them and they killed him.
* * * *
“Wang”: Hungry Hawkins, the meanest
cocky for hundreds of miles around, came
on his harvest-hands holding a stop-work
meeting. “What th’ devil’s th’ meanin’ of
this?” he roared. Winchester Wilfred
stepped forward. “This morning you
killed a pig, Mr. Hawkins,” he said —“an
ancient boar, which you’ve had for 15 years,
called King Boris of Ural. Just a minute”
—as the astonished cocky opened his mouth
to speak. “We are common working men,
democrats, every one.” “What th’ blazes
are yer talkin’ about?” bellowed Hawkins.
“Be patient, sir,” replied the spokesman. “Yes-
terday we had with us for all three meals
King Darius of Wallabadillberra, a stud
ram verging on 12 years of age. To-day
we understand that. King Darius’s brother,
Prince' Ptolemy, of the same place, a year
younger, will be with us at dinner and tea.
Furthermore, we feel sure it is your intention
to introduce us to the recently-deceased King
Boris to-morrow. The position is this, that
we are afraid that such constant association
with royalty will tend to have a bad influence
on us, and” But Hawkins had pushed off.
* * * *
“Si Anu” : Baby competitions and health
centres are now a regular feature of Asiatic
life in Singapore,' but on the smaller islands
and in the remote interior the expectant
Malay mother still goes about her immem-
orial business in the immemorial way. The
bidan, or midwife, decides the spot in the
house where the 1 child is to be born by drop-
ping the blade of a knife into the ground
under the dwelling until it sticks perfectly
upright. Over the spot a bunch of prickly
pandanus palm is hung, as a chevaux-de-
frise against wandering spirits of evil. A
fishing net is suspended over the door to
catch the kamakadong, which is the ghost
of a woman who died in childbirth, and whose
disagreeable function it is to prey on living
women in a similar condition. Where Islam
is strong the bidan draws a line from breast
to breast of the mother, and marks the child
with an arrow if a boy, and a cross if a
girl. The Devil will then mistake them foi
his own wife and child and leave them alone.
A stone should always be placed in the
cradle when the baby is removed, so that the
spirits will be deceived. In Labuan, Borneo,
tho father is put to bed for 17 days and ex-
pected to behave exactly like a nursing
mother, which, being usually a consummate
actor, he will do to the life. So respected
is the custom that if arbitration courts
existed in Borneo' the necessary leave would
be included in all awards. Liberal-minded
planters always grant the holiday if they
value a contented labor force.
TO FALMOUTH FOR ORDERS.
[For The Bulletin.]
Now, clap the hatches on, my lads,
And jamb the battens home!
Two thousand tons of wheat below —
Full to the very comb!
The wind’s sou’-west, the best of all
To speed us on our way ;
pilot’s climbing down the side;
We’re bound for Falmouth Bay!
So, square away your fore and main,
And haul your jibs to port again;
We’re on the starboard tack—“all
plain”—•
And bound for Falmouth Bay!
We’ll drink a tot of rum, my boys,
To wish the ship “Good luck!”
She’s trim and sound “in wind and limb,”
And taut from keel to truck.
Close-hauled or free, it makes no odds,
There’s none with her can, stay;
The rest will be a week astern
When we’re in Falmouth Bay!
So square away your fore and main
And haul your sheets to port again,
Then, “Ho ! for the Horn and the coast
of Spain !”
We’re off to . Falmouth Bay !
There’s some can move with stu’n’s’ls set,
And half a gale abaft;
But on a wind they drift a-lee,
The clumsy, crazy craft!
And some can use their sky-s’ls, too,
In a soldier’s breeze at morn;
But only we can carry on
While plunging round the Horn!
So “Here’s the ‘Lively Palawan’—
Her men and mates and Good Old
Man !”
And let them catch us now that can,
We’re bound for Falmouth Bay!
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


m
W
l— rj- a j
I
mNRVHHv
ifc—
(Phhmjp
■■"'« m irt*i
lipaiiiipl
gppsll!l!|llii!!i^^^%?ss®!|(^|!l^
SR
fewos
«E»V,S
*
mm
m
m
■ CR.AIC &AITK.EN
GEORGE SI SYDNEY
DrSTRiBUTOaS FOR CLOB (lEIL CIGAR FACTORY.
AUTUMN AT ITS BEST...
MARCH, April and May are three of the most delightful months of the
year for holiday-making in Victoria. For autumn, south of the
Murray, is autumn at its best.
The tourist can choose from:—
MT. BUFFALO NATIONAL PARK: The most magnificent mountain
scenery in Australia, with a standard of comfort at The Chalet
unsurpassed by any other holiday-house anywhere.
VICTORIAN RIVIERA: Combined seaside-and-bush scenery at
Lome, Barwon Heads, Apollo Bay or Ocean Grove.
THE GIPPSLAND LAKES: Motor-boating and fishing in the lovely lake
country; or
THE MARYSVILLE . DISTRICT: Invigorating walks through sweet-
scented fern gullies which experienced travellers have described as
unexcelled by anything of the kind in the world.”
Travel experts at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU (Martin Place,
Sydney, or Queen s Walk, Melbourne) will help the tourist to choose.
Nardoo”: Until v primitive people
acquires the knack of telling a whopping big
lie it makes little headway in mythology,
poesy or any of the arts. Binghi overcame,
at a comparatively early stage of his develop-
ment, such inhibitions as might have made
him the George Washington of ethnologv,
and consequently his, legends are as fantastic
as those of the Celt. One of the first flights
of fancy was the discovery of the ' giant
snake of many colors. It was described by
many gifted gentlemen to their open-mouthed
fellow-tribesmen—enormous, glowing, reach-
ing from mountain peak to mountain peak,
streaked with all colors, fitted with a huge
head that bore a scarlet mane, and with a
mouth that was the source of many rivers.
Those who described the creature had seen
it all right—but what they had seen was the
rainbow. Some savants call this a deifica-
tion of water and rain and accord it religious
significance, but no evidence is advanced that
Binghi had the remotest notion how the
phenomenon was produced, and no evidence
need be produced to convince most folk that
black brother had quite enough sense to dis-
tinguish a snake from a solar halo.
* * * *
“Mells” : A good word for the starling at
last. The curator of the Sydney Cricket
THE REAL BIG ’UNS ARE ALWAYS DEAD.
“Ninety-five year old Dad ’ere is—a bloomin’ wonder!”
“Yes, it’s a wonderful age.”
“Wonderful age be blowed! This ain’t no wonderful age. Why,
he remembers a depression what was twice as bad as this
one—don’t you, Dad?”
Ground told M. A. Noble how a plague
of insidious ground beetles dug themselves
in beneath the hallowed turf and began to
devour the roots of the couch-grass. Their
devastating course was only stayed by flocks
of starlings, which alighted on the ground
and, showing the same keen scent for the sub-
terranean insects as pigs have for truffles,
NOT A WURRUD OVERLOOKED.
“Stolen your washin', have they, then, Mrs. O’Rourke? And have ye called the po-lice!"
“Oi have that, your Riverince—every blessed thing I cud lay me tongue to.”
jabbed in their beaks at the right places and
dined sumptuously, further enabling the cura-
tor to sleep in peace. It just shows that
even these much-abused feathered immigrants
can show native birds a point or two some-
times. Personally, I regard the starling—
subject of a fine bit of writing by naturalist
Richai’d Jeffries for his picturesque streaki-
ness—with a certain affection because of the
associations he carries with him, though I
suppose to most people he is merely a lousy
nuisance. And the cleanest birds in Sydney
Botanical Gardens, that is the ones who
take the most advantage of the bathing facili-
ties provided, are, I verily believe, the dingy-
plumaged sparrows.
* * * *
“Jungor”: A nugget of gold “about twice
the size of a pea” was found in the craw of
a young goose when
it was being pre-
pared for the table
somewhere near Dor-
rigo (N.S.W.), and,
as the bird had never
been off its owner’s
farm, the discovery
has given a mild
stimulus to prospect-
ing in the neighbor-
hood. There used to
be a hardy annual of
a yarn on the West-
ralian goldfields con-
cerning a man who
bought a sheep’s
head at the butcher’s
and found distinct
traces of gold. em-
bedded in the teeth.
He decided that the
animal must have
been feeding not long
before on an alluvial
patch, where the
metal was close to
the grass-roots, and
spent a lot off time
in investigating the
antecedents of the
flock of which it had
been a member. But
the jumbucks had
been driven a good
many miles from the
station where they
were raised, and the
precious patch, if it
had any existence,
was never located.
Dai R.”: Thirty years ago “kurrajong
coffee” was a common beverage in Australia
wherever the tree from which it took its
name grew. The pods were collected as
they fell and allowed to dry in the sun till
they opened; then the seeds were extracted,
roasted in a frying-pan over a quick fire,
ground and used in the same way and in
about the same proportions as ordinary
coffee, which the resultant brew strongly
resembled both in taste and exhilarating pro-
perties. In the very early days of the W.A.
goldfields this was the breakfast beverage of
many miners.
* * * S|i
“Antipest”: Very few people, on the land
or in the city, doubt that Australia would
have been a brighter place to live in if
rabbits and rats had been kept out of it,
but that doesn’t prevent the trapping and
skin-mongering interests from advocating the
importation of still more pests. Following on
the heels of a strong
drive in favor of
Chinchilla rabbits
comes a plea for
the introduction of
the musk-rat. This
rodent, a native of
North America, is
alleged by those who
would welcome his
arrival to be a vege-
tarian, but there is
evidence that he is
as carnivorous as
any other member of
liis tribe. As he is
a water-rat, to segre-
gate him would be
impossible, and oppo-
nents of his intro-
duction say that if
he did no worse he
would speedily
account for the trout,
by eating the same
food and by eating
the trout. A paral-
lel case is that of the
starling, which is
starving out native
birds by eating their
food. To Mr. Musk-
rat’s credit must be
set the high value of
his little pelt, and
those who espouse
his entry say this
will ensure that he
won’t increase and
multiply too exceed-
ingly. But Austra-
lians have yet to
learn the technique
of musk-rat hunting,
and the cunning little
devils may prove more than a match for
their pursuers.
* * * *
“Taltingan” : We’ve got our own currency
out here on the billybungs, and we’ll thank
Mr. Lang not to butt in on it. I’ve heard
my old man tell of the time rabbits was all
the go; in them days at Mcnindie there was
four pubs pullin’ beer for the lick of their
lives —one on each sandhill and another
down on the flat. There was many a good
selection took up on the West Darling out
of the rabbit bonus. These days it’s mostly
dogs. A scalp's worth a couple o’ quid of
the Pasture Protection Board’s money, and
the station (every homestead selection’s a
station these days) will throw in a bit if
you don’t come at it too quick. Of course
in that case you have to chance somebody
else cutting in on you; but dogs is as hard
to get at as if they was a fiver. Foxes and
eagles are good money too —five bob mostly
for the fox and half a dollar for the eagle.
You wouldn’t think there was close on five
hundred eagles killed and paid for round here
in a year; but it’s gospel. You can buy
a fight any day you like by telling ’most
any camp that eagles ought to be protected,
they being such, good scavengers. Fine chap
old Wedgetail is. Best I ever saw had a
rotten death. The fencer, making a tie, had
left a spur of wire three inches long sticking
out. Wedgey, swooping for—well, we’ll call
it a rabbit, though there’ll be a of a
row if I don’t say it might have been a lamb
—swooping, anyhow, he pinioned himself
through the wing, high up. And there he
was hung—just able to reach the ground
with his toes. I finished him: he was nearly
done. If they’d been 10ft. panels he would
have brushed both posts. But they’re not
hard to kill, poor devils; and, anyway, if
you want me to make pets with a bird and
haven’t got a nice fat young rooster to give
away, I’d take a wedgetail before a crow
any day.
* * * *
“Fernie”: The cabled report that Dr.
Boss, of Brisbane, had bought Sunday Island
in the Kermadecs and intended to settle 14
families was received with incredulity in
Maoriland. The Bands Department stated
that it had jurisdiction over 7200 of the
7475 acres which comprise the island, the
remaining 275 acres being freehold, vested
in a man named Parker, of Suffolk (Eng.),
heir of the late C. H. Parker, who took up
residence there in November, 1926, and died
within a few months of blood-poisoning. The
Lands Department view o'f the matter was
that if Dr. Ross ,had purchased the freehold
portion, expecting to settle 14 families on
it, he had been sorely misled. Dr. Ross,
however, was not in the least abashed. He
replied that he had purchased the freehold
•as president of the Sunday Island Settle-
ment Association, which was formed in M.L.
during his recent visit to the Dominion. The
land purchased, he said, was the richest on
the island, and he had no doubt that it
would support the new settlers.
“Bony Bream”: The cicada has a use in
South' Aus., for he gives beekeepers an
accurate forecast of whether the trees are
going to yield honey or not. This season
the blue-gums came into blossom early in
the spring; their branches were full of the
A MYSTERY EXPLAINED.
“Mum, d’you know why some dogs ’as their tails cut off?”
“No, I don’t know- what it’s done for.”
“So’s nobody can find, out what cowards they are — that’s why.”
small cicadas which make a sound like air
escaping from a punctured tyre, and the
trees gave a good honey-flow. Later the red-
gums flowered, but the big cicada, which
makes a noise like “Ee-ee-ee-I-know it-know
it-know it-ee-ee-ee,” did not appear. “No
honey will come out of the red-gums this
season,” we beekeepers gloomily remarked
to each other; and we were right.
THE GIRL WITH' GINGER ’AIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I’ve knocked around a fairish bit an’ seen a
thing or two,
An’ I don’t fall for every jane who happens
into view.
I never bother thinkin’ ’ard, I stick to
common things,
But since I took that trip to town me fancy’s
sproutin’ wings.
I finished all me business up an’ went to
get the mare,
An’ then I ruus across a girl—a piece with
ginger ’air.
If she ’ad smiled at me an’ spoke, bv even
said good-day,
I would ’ave tossed ’er greeting back an’
gone upon me way.
She said no word, but : in ’er glance I fancied
I could see
That she knew me for what I was, an’ all
me pedigree.
Those grey eyes seemed to read me through,
me sinful soul lay bare —
Jist one swift glance from that strange
girl with shinin’ ginger ’air.
If I ’ad any sense at all I’d see if I could
find '
Jist who she is or what she is—l can’t make
up me mind. ' ‘
At least a dozen times to-day I’ve saddled
up the ’ack,
But something seems to bid me go, an’ some-
thing ’olds me back.
The flamin’ world is upside down, me brain
is in a whirl,
An’ all because I chanced to meet that
ginger-’eaded girl.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


w
K e , e P
a clear
MlNDand BODY
.JtinA
e
w&y \
YOU cannot be
perfectly “fit” if
your system is
being slowly poisoned
by toxins arising from imperfect or
incomplete elimination. Such con-
ditions cause bodily fatigue and mental
weariness, and reduce efficiency.
A clean, properly functioning diges-
tive system is an essential to health.
Keep your intestinal tract clean and
healthy with the aid of Figsen, the
natural, safe laxative. Does not purge
or gripe, does not create habits, has
no unpleasant after effects and is just
as good for children as their elders.
Figsen is pleasant and easy to take,
and you can rely on it.
FIGSEN
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail- ‘
merit
Sold only by
Chemists
3
%
SMOKE-OH!
SHE’D SEE HOW THEY GOT ON.
“Are you and your boy friend going to get married when you
grow up?”
“Yes, I think so — unless, of course, we get a divorce before then.”
Federal politicians are at their nitwits’
end to know what to do.
* *
“North Coast and Riverina will secede.” — Sydney
“Telegraph.”
But there’s a big difference between secede
and success.
* *
“Horace could say with truth, if with a com-
plete absence of the pride that apes humility, that
he had reared for himself a monument more lasting
than gold.”— “S. M. Herald.”
There is a deal of truth, too', in that almost
equally well-known Latin tag about the
accursed greed of brass.
* *
THE ONE-FRUIT MAN.
“He complained about the fruit bill, but spent
pounds on drink.” — Divorce evidence.
No fruits his sideboard drape.
It is his jape
To bar all save the grape —
In liquid shape.
* *
One of the new registrations:—
“The Drummoyne Club, Ltd., capital £5OO, to
conduct a club of non-politioal character, and to
encourage social intercourse and entertainment of
the members. Subscribers: Mary Parcel, H. Parcel,
H. A. Parcel, E. T. Parcel, J. W. Parcel, W. J.
Parcel, May Amelia Parcel.”— “S. M. Herald.”
They’re evidently quite wrapped up in
the business.
* *
“The sunset turns the ocean blue to gold”!
What a delightful picture it connotes!
And yet how drab beside what they unfold
Whose moonshine turns our absent gold
to notes.
* *
“VENGEANCE IS MINE.”
The girl ran her slender fingers up and
down the lapels of his dinner-jacket.
“You must go now,” she sighed, “before
my husband returns.”
She swung round suddenly.
“Ilell!” she gasped. “He’s coming now. ’
Italph turned pale.
“He will find us. He will guess every-
thing,” he muttered distractedly.
The footstep came nearer.
“Quick ! Quick! You must hide,” she
urged frantically.
But it was too late. The doorway framed
a vengeful figure, automatic in hand.
The automatic spoke.
Thud!
A crimson stream widened into a pool
beneath the still form which had been Ralph
Grayson.
“God ! You’ve killed him,” Joan gasped,
weakly.
Her slim figure slumped, crumpled, and
slid, in a senseless heap, to the carpet.
“Peanuts or. lollieswailed a plaintive ,
voice, as the lights went up.
G.P.
* H-
“Actor Inherits £50,000.” — Cable heading.
Probably the best roll he ever handled.
* *
“Mr. and Mrs. Murphy arrived during dessert.”
— “Sun” social par.
We prefer our murphies a bit earlier in
the meal.
¥ *
IN CANINE SOCIETY.
“ ‘Tweeny’ Vivers felt the call of the great out-
doors —or maybe just the alluring squeaks of one
of the innumerable Bowral bunnies. Anyway, he
disappeared for a couple of days and prostrated his
mistress, Mrs. George Vivers, who considers ‘Tweeny’
the best poodle ever pampered by a fond owner.”
—“Sunday Guardian.”
Some further items :
“Moscow” Lang, one of our smartest
Auburn doggies, has invented such a cute
Plan. The brave darling means to visit the
kennel of a great rough bulldog named
“John” and make a noise like a repudiation-
ist at the top of his bark. This, yelps “Mos-
cow,” will make “John” love him, and give
him oh so many hones. His mistress, the
exclusive chatelaine of Trades Hall, to which
Sir Philip himself hasn’t got the entree, is
telling all her press friends about the angel’s
cleverness.
A little birdie has whispered to me that
dear little “Nats” Bavin isn’t going to have
that promised jaunt to the country after all.
One or two' prize sheep-dogs have snarled
that they don’t want “Nats” scampering
about starting fires of enthusiasm in their
districts; that they can start anything they
want in that line themselves. So we won’t
see any more of them at the chic National
House parties.
On dit that “Sunny” Denison’s health is
worrying the devoted household in Elizabeth-
street. liis favorite
attendant, Jonesy,
brought him his
dinner as usual, but
it happened to be
wrapped up in an
old copy of the
“N e w s.” Naughty
“Sunny” not only
rejected the prof-
fered dainties, but
bit a visitor —a lead-
ing banker who was
trying to amuse the
family by exhibiting
his priceless collec-
tion of overdrafts.
I tried hard to get
some gossip from
“De Vere” Knox
and “Plantagenet”
Colin Stephen, but
they snapped that
the best dogs didn’t
go after press pub-
licity. In despair--
for I wanted a rac-
ing item —I tried the
watchdog “Smithy.”
He was carefully
guarding that his-
toric old chateau
Robbery Park, as
usual, but what he bowled was quite unfit
for publication.
D.
* ¥
The most outstanding figures in Federal
politics to-day are £18,000,000.
* *
The Labor party is undoubtedly a going
concern.
¥ *
“New traffic fights causing hold-ups.’’
— Melb. “Herald” headline.
Apparently they’re not a signal success.
* *
VARIETY.
She is a fresh-complexioned girl,
As all tolio know her say;
She sets the hoys’ hearts in a whirl
With a fresh one every day!
“The Ilogan Ministry has given tenants of Vic.
gaols reduced terms.”
The depression again!
* *
NOT GUILTY. .
He staggered past us to his seat;
We sniggered at his plight;
But when he bent with words uncouth,
And felt his feet, we knew the truth —
Only his boots were tight.
P.
¥ *
THE FREAK.
“Mr. Forde, the Minister for Customs, has for-
bidden the entry for show purposes of an African
woman with protruding lips on the ground that
the Federal Government 'is opposed to the intro-
duction of repulsive freaks.”
Since the above announcement a still more
repellent being—a male —has been captured.
ITis lips are normal, but he has an unusually
developed cheek. His hide is exceptionally
thick. Fie has a habit of putting his ear to
the ground, in order, it is said, to hear
which way the cat will jump. When placed
against a red flag he turns bright crimson,
immediately becoming pink when a pink
flag is substituted. In the dictation test he
was asked to write “honest finance” and
wrote “fiduciary issue” every time. When
the word “Caucus” was suddenly shouted in
his ear he went down on his stomach and
remained in that position till given permis-
sion to rise by his god, A.L.P.
The country would approve if Mr. Forde
refused to allow the unfortunate creature
to remain.
M. G. S.
V *
“The decrease in motor registrations is due to
heavy taxation.”— “Argus,"
Motorists can no longer hit-and-run to it.
* *
“Mr. Watson sailed to-day for Europe for his
twentieth consecutive winer.” — Melbourne “Herald."
Evidently a disciple of Omar.
* *
HOUSEHOLD HINT.
Dear Agatha,—You ask how your family
can escape paying income tax? As it hap-
pens I have an old recipe left by my grand-
mother, and am sure you will find it satis-
factory. Mix 21b. salt; asafcetida to taste ;
two tons political speeches; bag of old
income-tax returns; 121 b. writs and sum-
monses ; two gallons benzine. Season with
bonedust. Heat for 10 minutes. Then pour
down choked drain and sip hourly.—Yours,
Tretang.
# *
“Another man who has sunk to being a hawker is
by profession an oculist.”— “Sun."
He has fallen from liis eye estate.
¥ #
“It is time a move was made to bring harmony
into brass-band circles.” — “Herald."
We feel that way about jazz-band circles,
too.
INFANTILE PARALYSIS.
Young Nitwit takes an infant view
On lijc. He runs a baby car,
And sports where baby golf links are;
His sweetheart is his “baby,” too.
* *
SABBATH COCKTAILS.
I discovered the following mixtures in
Sydney Domain last Sunday:—
The mailed fist of the capitalistic octopus is
grinding us beneath its iron heel.
The capitalists, like the ostriches they are, art
cynically throwing dust in my eyes by watering
their stock.
Clerics are brainless loafers working like mad for
their own deep-laid schemes.
The bankers are like Juggernauts —feathering
their luxurious nests out of the empty pockets of
the starving poor.
The brewers are pouring beer down my neck
with one hand and stabbing me in the back with the
other.
The bottom dog is at present only the catspaw
of industry, but he will yet rise Phoenix-like and
sweep the master-class aside with a hammer-blow
from his proletarian fist.
McM.
FIGURATIVELY SPEAKING.
’Tivixt the hooks at his office and “hooks” on
the course
He tried to divide his attention,
But he doubled his worries, and to his
remorse
Dropped a pile, which was not his inten-
tion.
An auditor put two and two side hy side,
And arrived at deductions so queer
That a> Judge, summing up when the matter
was tried,
Said he’d figure in gaol for a year!
MCMUG.
IN SYDNEY MUSEUM— A.D. 2931.
This, ladies and gentlemen, is one of those
queer animals, now extinct, an amateur crick-
eter. First compare him with the next
exhibit, a professional, and note the more
opulent appearance of the amateur.
Do not be misled by the human appear-
ance of the amateur cricketer, ladies and
gentlemen. He was a god whom the people
worshipped on appointed days with mys-
BUT HE DID HIS BEST.
“Have ye finished greasing the sulky, Jimmy?”
“Naw, zurr! I ain’t done the ’andles nor one o’ th’ w’eels—Aw rooned outta grease.”
terious words of praise, such as “Gettabag,”
“Putthumpiron” and “Avait.”
Less fortunate humans unable to attend
the arena were forced to content themselves
with frequent inquiries about the “score/’
The exact nature of this “score” is unknown
—some authorities say it was merely an
excuse for drinks.
The devotion felt for the amateur was
unbounded. Statistics show that over 50 per
cent, of male children born in 1931 possessed
the name Bradman. Streets, cough-mixtures,
pet dogs, etc., were similarly named.
Although the cricketer’s time was largely
occupied with public exhibitions, there were
periods, necessarily brief, when he was allowed
to attend to other duties, such as writing testi-
monials and autographing books and bats.
The more important amateurs wrote books.
It was the aim of every small boy to
become a god. Flow it was done is not clear,
but we know that the aspirant had to pass
through many preliminary stages, during the
first of which he was invariably hailed as
“another Trumper.” In his final development
he became a “Test player,” and was free
thereafter to live up to the god-like motto
“Get Rich Quick.”
CEDILLA.
THE NEW MAN FALLS DOWN ON
HIS JOB.
The new staff man diffidently entered the
managing editor’s sanctum.
“Well, wodger got?” asked the brilliant
guardian of his country’s morals and cul-
ture. “A murder? No? I'm sorry for that.
Our readers fairly gloat over blood. How
about a dope story? Or perhaps you know
of some young girls in Chinese dens? No?
Well, got any leg photographs? Yom know,
spicy ones. No photos either? Too bad.
“Well, wot about gun stuff? We’re strong
on the underworld, y’ know. The under-
world is good for an American scare head-
line any day. Wot the police call a filthy
little degenerate we call a romantic figure,
see? Know aijy crooks, touts, spielers,
touchers....
“No? Well, dash it all, ain’t yer got
something about Colonial High Society—the
Old Established Families—the Australian
Aristocracy—’specially the daughters, and
wliat new frocks they’re wearing? ,M ot
have you got? Literary, political, economic
criticism.... What the blinkenell are you
doin’ here?”
BUNIONS.


W. JNO. BAKER
DAGGING OUTFIT
AND STATION
STEELWARE.
W. JNO. BAKER DAGGING
AND BOTTLE OUTFIT.
This Outfit contains Sin.
Red Tang, Double Hollow-
ground Dagging Sheavs,
ipt. Tin Bottle and small
Oilstone. The sheath is
made of the best picked
leather and riveted
throughout. Has loops for
attaching to saddle, also
double-handed girth strap.
No. 15—The above Outfit
complete, 23/6.
Postage, 1/3.
Very Light.
147 —W. JNO. BAKER STATION AND
FARMER’S KNIFE. The Standard Favorite
of the Australian Bush; 4in. Stag Haft, 13/6;
3Jin., 12/6 each. Post free.
■TptSHEEP DRENCHES.
TIN DRENCHES, to hold:
loz 3/6
2oz 3/6
3oz 3/6
COPPER DRENCHES, to hold:
loz 5/6
2oz 5/6
3oz 5/6
Postage, 6d. extra.
Swallow.
Note.
Sheep and Cattle Ear Marks—best hand-
forged steel, made according to Stock
Department’s regulations.
R
Sheep and Cattle Fire
Brands —any size and
design—made to order.
Never Rust.
fBAKERA
SSii
OPEN. CLOSED.
NEW LOCK PATTERN ALUMINIUM SHEEP AND CATTLE
EAR LABELS. These can be closed with a Flat-nose Plier
and will not pull open.
Sheep 15/- per 100 1 p . p
Cattle 25/- per 100) Fost Jnee '
Pliers for closing labels, 4/-, each.
The above prices include name or initials and numbering from
1 to 9999.
The W. JNO. BAKER NEW
IMPROVED LAMB CLAM.
No. 435 —The position of the
blade enables the user to com-
plete the operation without
moving his grip on the Clam,
the result being a cleaner
job, quicker healing and saving
time; about Bin. overall.
Black wood handle grip, brass
guard; width across jaw, l|in.
Price 11/6 each, post free.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER ST
SYDNEY
w
National in Name
Comprehensive in Service
Whatever your walk in life—whether manufacturer
or pastoralist, shopkeeper or farmer, housewife or sales-
woman, lawyer or doctor, artisan or clerk—the facilities
of the National Bank are available to you.
The experience gained through seventy-two years’
participation in Australian affairs enables it to provide
a banking service covering the requirements of all
persons—whether their means be great or small.
This widespread service is available at 467 offices and
branches in Australia, and two branches in London
all of which are closely linked up with the Bank’s agents
the world over.
Special provision for the receipt and safeguarding of
Customers’ Bags containing cash, lodged at the Head
Office after Banking hours. Particulars on application.
THE
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Head Office: 271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Principal Sydney Office: 342-346 George Street.
Total Assets, £45,600,000. Capital Paid Up, £5,000,000.
Reserve Fund (used in the business), £3,200,000.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
HARROW the PASTURES
WITH
e
"Sunblade” Pasture
Renovating' Harrows
And Increase the Productive Capacity of Your Herd
HARROWED PASTURES carry more stock
and provide richer feed; stock droppings are
pulverised and spread ; the soil is loosened and
aerated; space is created for available seed
and a denser sole is promoted in the pasture.
Moss is eradicated. Matted root growth is
broken up and fresh growth is stimulated.
PRIOR TO TOP DRESSING
HARROWING IS A NECESSITY.
“SUNBLADE” PASTURE RENOVATING HARROWS
2- Set has 78 Cutting Blades Width of Cut, 6 feet; Weight, 3cwt. 141 b»
3- Set has 102 Cutting Blades Width of Cut, 8 feet; Weight, 4cwt. 71b.
The lines of cultivation are approximately 1 inch apart.
The Tripod, with sharpened blades
securely pinned in the slots.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
THE TRIPODS are coupled together with hinged fasteners of
crucible steel. These are easily detached from the tripods by
removing a cotter pin.
THE BLADES are made of hardened special tyne steel, and are
sharpened. They are pinned securely in the tripod, as illustrated,
projecting 4 inches on one side and 2 inches on the other. Thus
the harrows can be used for 4-inch cut on the one side or turned
over for 2-inch cut.
SPREADER BARS and DRAG WEIGHTS are attached at the rear.
This arrangement keeps the harrows well down to their work.
THE PULLING BAR is of-hard seasoned timber, with pull rods and
link.
THIS SLED is useful for transporting the harrows
about the farm and for general farm haulage work.
The skids are shod with steel, and the body is of sheet
steel, with tubular iron bearers. Length, 7ft. 1 Oin.
Width, 3ft. Weight, 1 cwt. 2qrs. 141 b.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS, PRICES AND TERMS.
H. V. McKay Massey Harris Pty., Ltd.
(Sunshine Section),
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
BRANCHES: 664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
Distributors for Queensland: H. V. McKAY, MASSEY HARRIS (QLD.), LTD., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
m
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Boolclet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Britain's best pump gives
double pressure with
half thp pffovt
Recognised to be the “Master” 'M*' l MV / L
Foot-pump by all motorists. Two
pumps in one, with a patent super-charged action, a
push-on connector that fits all valves, and an accurate
direct-action pressure gauge. These are the unique fea-
tures which make the British KISMET-DUPLEX the
best tyre-pump in the world.
KISMET
DUPLEX “MASTER”
FOOT PUIVIP
Two
w
in One
Patentees and Sole Manvjacturers:
WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
e
PRICE, WITH
GAUGE, 84/-
Factory Representative:
MR. JOHN ARNOLD, 6.P.0. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
Position 1 Vacant.
Chief Secretary’s Office,
Brisbane, sth March, 1931.
“The Abattoirs Agreement Ratification
and Meat Industry Act of 1930.”
A PPLICATIOMS are invited for the posi-
tion of General Manager of the public
abattoir and Chairman of the Meat Industry
Board to be established under the above-
mentioned Act. The person appointed will
be required to devote his full time to the
office. The salary payable to the appointee
will be £2OOO per annum. Applications,
which should be endorsed “Application for
position, Chairman, Meat Industry Board,”
should reach the undersigned not later than
the 18th April, 1931. Intending applicants
may obtain any further particulars desired
regarding the position from
G. W. WATSON,
Under Secretary.
• •
If any illustration in ‘‘The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
HOW MUCH SUPER. THIS YEAR?
“Tuart” : The question raised by “J.W.W.”
m “Saving Super.” (B. 11/3/’3l) is being
discussed by farmers in all the wheat-growing
States, and is naturally interesting the
scientists. Vic. Agricultural Superintendent
Mullett devotes an article to it in the
February issue of his department’s “Jour-
nal.” Dealing exhaustively with the failure
of crops in parts of the lower Mallee and
the northern Wimmera, Mr. Mullett scouts
the theory that “had the amount of fer-
tiliser been substantially reduced the failure
could have been avoided.” He declares that
“the conditions were such that every kind of
farming practice, good and bad, failed to
give results.” Following on the previous
year’s drought the crop was sown on a seed-
bed devoid of any moisture reserve in the
subsoil. June was dry, with many frosts;
September . was also dry, with parching
winds; rain came in mid-October, and
within two months numerous secondary
tillers had headed ; but the heads were small
and sappy, and “a fortnight’s dry weather,
aided by a frost and every conceivable
disease, finished them off.” Such grain as
formed pinched badly.
Mr. Mullett insists that “the present emer-
gency is no time to rashly jettison sound
principles and proved practices,” but allows
that they should be modified “in conformity
with the altered economic situation.” He
submits a very valuable table showing the
results of 19 years’ tests with super, at
Longerenong, the value of the increased
wheat being separately calculated at 4s. 6d.,
2s. and Is. 6d. a bushel net. With wheat
at 4s. 6d. it paid to use as much as 2cwt.
per acre of super, on well-worked Longere-
nong fallow; the extra return (18s. 6d.) was
Is. 4d. an acre greater than where lewt.
was used, and 4s. 9Jd. per acre greater than
where |cwt. was used. But with wheat at
Is. 6d. a dressing of 2cwt. an acre would
have shown a loss of sd. an acre; on the
other hand, lewt. would have given an extra
return of 2s. sd. and £cwt. one of 2s. lljd.
With the price at 25., lewt. to the acre would
have yielded the most profitable return—
4s. lid., as against 4s. B|d. from and
2s. 9d. from 2cwt.
Similar calculations are presented in
respect of other districts in which the
department has conducted experiments over
a period of years. They suggest, as Mr.
Mullett puts it, “that in districts similar
to Carwarp (sandy red loam), Rainbow (red
sandy loam), Salisbury (black soil), Lon-
gerenong (black soil) and Rutherglen (grey
clay loam), if the amounts of super, recom-
mended by the department are being used
they could profitably be reduced so long as
wheat does not return more than 2s. net to
the grower. On the other hand, in districts
similar to Walpeup (red sandy loam),
Waaia (red clay loam), Shepparton (grey
loam and red loam), Willaura (grey clay
loam) and Werribee (red loam), where the
response to super, is above the average, no
reduction below the amount usually advo-
cated by the department is desirable; and
as there are farmers in these districts who
are not using the amount recommended it
should pay them to increase the dressing.”
This writer is of opinion that the price of
wheat, which will have to enter into the
calculations, “will be substantially below the
levels ruling for the past few years.”
Mr. Mullett points out that the residues
of super, are of considerable value to the
oat crop following wheat, or to pasture.
His observations with respect to wheat are
intended for Victorian farmers only. At
Longerenong plots have yielded well with-
out manure. This would be out of the
question in Westralia, and farmers in that
State, who have had an excellent harvest,
will be very chary of reducing their dress-
ings of super.
PASTURE-IMPROVEMENT RESULTS.
Mr. Pietrielie, manager of Warrangong
station, Koorawatha (N.S.W.), employs
what is probably the most extensive and
thorough scheme of pasture improvement in
N. S. Wales. Half of his 7000-acre property
is top-dressed each year with lewt. of super,
per acre, and 400 acres of grazing lucerne
carries up to five sheep per acre, as well
as yielding large quantities of silage and
hay. The success of his work is shown by
the fact that the Warrangong wool clip has
increased from 90 to 300 bales during the
last ten years.
Briefly, the Warrangong policy has been:
(1) Destruction of all rabbits;* (2) closer
subdivision, which permits frequent chang-
ing of stock from one paddock to another and
the seeding of desirable native grasses; (3)
top-dressing of pastures; (4) sowing graz-
ing lucerne; (5) extensive fodder conserva-
tion, which becomes more necessary when
an increased number of stock is carried. The
results speak for themselves.
STOMACH WORMS IN SHEEP.
At the instance of pastoralists who
reported that they had got good results in
the treatment of stomach worms by adminis-
tering drugs in the drinking water, the
effects of such, drugs have been investigated
by Dr. Clunies Ross, parasitologist to the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research.
Among those tested were potassium perman-
ganate, which was given in 1-5000 and
1-2500 solution, a propi’ietary coal-tar pre-
paration in 1-5000 solution, copper sul-
phate (bluestone) in 1-5000 solution, and
a proprietary preparation, of sodium hypo-
chlorite in 1-5000 solution.
Potassium permanganate was adminis-
tered to sheep daily for six months in the
drinking water. Though the sheep were not
exposed to reinfection, being kept through-
out in concrete yards, they were still found
to contain specimens of the large stomach
worm on being killed at the end of the
trial. Other sheep given the same drug
daily in the drinking water were reinfected
at intervals throughout the trial by drench-
ing them with young worms. Sheep so
treated died in the same time as others not
receiving the drug.
In the case of the other drugs, sheep were
exposed to reinfection while receiving them
daily in the drinking water. In all cases,
it was necessary to adopt other medicinal
treatment in order to prevent such sheep
dying as a result of the heavy infestation
set up, and against which the drugs appeared
to exert no appreciable action. A 1-4000
watery suspension of carbon tetrachloride
was also tested. It appeared to exert some
action against stomach worms when given
daily over a long period, but there was evi-
dence that it had definitely harmful effects
on the livers of treated sheep. And observa-
tions made in the field on a property where
administration of potassium permanganate
in the drinking water has been extensively
employed disclosed no evidence that the
drug had any effect whatever in controlling
infection with stomach worms; in fact,
abandonment of drenching with other proved
drugs has led to a recrudescence of the infec-
tion. So the (Council warns pastoralists
in its “Journal” against abandoning tried
methods of treatment and substituting the
administration of drugs in drinking water
or in licks. Further experiments are being
conducted with a view to adding to exist-
ing methods of control.
MAORILAND CONQUERS GORSE.
“Tekea”: An imported plant that has
caused Maoriland a lot of trouble is gorse.
In the first few years of settlement, especi-
ally in the South Island, it was used every-
where for farm fences, following the
English custom. Gorse makes a good cattle-
proof fence, but in the M.L. climate it spreads,
and has to be grubbed frequently to keep
it within bounds. Of abandoned farms
it took complete possession, and to root out
its long, tough steel-wire-likje roots was
reckoned well-nigh impracticable. Gorse-
infested land is well-nigh worthless, or was
until recently, when someone at Flock House,
where English boys are taught farming, hit
on the idea of ploughing the stuff out.
A gigantic plough, cutting a furrow 3ft.
wide, was imported—the largest implement
of the sort in the Southern Hemisphere.
This, drawn by a powerful tractor, has
settled the hash of 400 of the 1400 acres of
gorse-infested river-flat that is included in
the Flock House estate. The cost of con-
verting the gorse country into cleared land,
ready for sowing, was £5 10s. per acre. The
land, originally valued at £5 an acre, is now
assessed as being worth £4O an acre.
BUTTER-MAKING FOR BEGINNERS.
“Fodgie”: “F 34” (B. 21/1/’3l) mixes
some sound advice with some doubtful
figures. Queensland factories, he says, are
paying 10£d. per lb. of butterfat for first-grade
cream, and his storekeeper is paying Is. 4d.
per lb. of butter. “Taking 51b. of fat to
make 61b. of butter, that price is equal to
Is. 7d. per lb. of fat.” What is butterfat?
I always thought it was cream, and evidently
the factories in Queensland think so too.
Their KUd. for butterfat would equal about
Is. per lb. of butter. You can’t get a greater
weight of butter than you have cream.
In South Aus. factories pay for the amount
of butter produced by your cream, and pay
full wholesale price for first-grade—at pre-
sent I think it is Is. 6d. Our store
pays Is. 3d. for all butter sold locally, but if
there is a glut the surplus has to be forwarded
to Adelaide, and producers get what it brings,
less expenses; as it is getting stale before
being sent, the price is low.
I do not think the method of milking affects
the quality of the cream. I milk wet-handed,
my husband dry, and there is no difference
if one of us has a monopoly of the job. The
cream screw is the thing to watch, and the
speed of the separator. Cream needs to be
thicker in summer than in winter. In our
cool southern district it requires churning
only twice a week.
I don’t like the method of putting water
with the cream before it breaks. Churn the
butter as quickly as possible; get all the
buttermilk out before putting water on.
Wash in at leart three waters, squeezing each
lot well out of the butter. Over-salt, then
wash again. This prevents the salt from
coming out dry on the butter. Weigh, allow-
ing a half-ounce extra—butter loses weight—
and turn on to a board which has been scalded
and then rinsed well with cold water. I use
the lid of the churn for this, as the handle
makes a good grip. With a butter-board beat
the butter out flat, roll up and beat again
until no more moisture comes out. Form into
shape, and wrap in butter-paper. It is better
not to use rag about butter if it is possible
to do without. A good idea is to put the
pounds of butter in an enamelled or earthen-
ware dish and stand the dish in another con-
taining a freezing mixture. Enough salt to
float an egg in a gallon of water is a good
one, or 21b. brown sugar, 21b. salt, Jib. salt-
petre to a gallon of water.
A GOOD OLD COMBINATION.
“Senex”; Notwithstanding modern plant-
improvement, intensive culture, and the rest,
I believe that the old Hawkesbury combina-
tion, “corn an’ punkins,” is still unbeaten
for its return of high-class food and fodder—
not only in yield per acre, but even more
remarkably in the preliminary expenses of
seed and cultivation. Where potatoes will
cost £5 per acre for seed alone, and it is
necessary to give two subsequent cultiva-
tions,_ of which “hilling-up” is especially
laborious, corn and maize will require less
than £1 for seed, and can be managed with
a minimum of after-working. And there is
no comparison between the labor of har-
vesting. Then, after harvesting, a very useful
aftermath is given by the cornstalks, etc.
Certainly in extra-dry seasons c, and p. are
apt to be somewhat of a failure; but so are
spuds. This aptness to failure, also, is
greatly due to the trifling way in which the
cultivation is usually done. Any old piece
of ground is turned over, late in spring, and
the seed bunged in anyhow and left to live
or die, as the chances of the season happen.
Let anyone desirous of a profitable crop go
to work as follows and he will'hardly fail
twice in a lifetime.
Pick a suitable site early in the autumn.
Nothing is better than a fairly level, black-
soil hollow under the shelter of a hill, as in
such a site the seeding may be done a month
earlier than would be safe on low-lying flats.
Plough up your site and leave in the rough
until danger from frosts is not likely. Then
across that ploughing turn over strips about
four furrows wide 10 feet apart. On these
strips work up seedbeds for the pumpkins,
also about 10 feet apart ; for this job the old
“convict hoe” can’t be bettered. Plant the
seeds and wait till the plants have begun
to “run.” Then turn over the remaining
strips of ground, putting in your maize as you
do so, either in two single rows or one heavy
double row; two single rows 3ft. apart, I
prefer. Then harrow across.
This system prevents that growth of weeds
which is the great enemy of both these crops,
as the runners are over the ground before
the new ground gets weedy. The huge pump-
kin leaves shade the soil and so help the
maize to carry on; while the maize,shelters
the pumpkins from their enemy, the wind.
Virgin soil is almost essential for success
with pumpkins, but where that is not prac-
ticable land which has lain out of cultivation
for a while is next best.
Where the area is only small it is often
a good idea to bring a couple of plough-
furrows as wing-drains into the top of the
paddock, thus giving the crop the advantage
of any run-off from summer showers.
Treated as advised the result should aver-
age 10 tons of table-pumpkins and 30 to 40
bushels of maize to the acre, A fitst-class
rotation is to follow this crop next season
with potatoes, which will do better, it will
be found, than when planted on new ground.
When these are ploughed out the paddock
will be in good fettle for laying down with
lucerne. Then when, after a few years, the
lucerne gets fouled and thinned by annual
rubbish, the rotation may be repeated with
still better success, owing to the nitrifying
action of the lucerne.
THE BUNCHY-TOP SCARE.
“Azac”: In view of the discovery that 300
banana plants in a young plantation at
Tomewin, just over the Queensland border,
had bunchy-top, I am anticipating criticism
of my assertion (B. 18/2/’3l) that bunchy-
top is now the grower’s least trouble. I
did not mean to suggest that the disease was
unknown in present-day plantations; as a
matter of fact I had just seen a place in the
Tweed district where upwards of two dozen
plants with bunchy-top had been discovered
since the planting in November. But that is
just the point—the diseased plants had been
discovered and destroyed before they were a
foot high. In the last banana boom “bunchy'’
would not even have been suspected until the
stools failed to bear. They would have
then been at least 18 months old. By that
time the banana aphid would have spread
the disease to perhaps nine out of every ten
stools in the plantation, as well as to areas
in the vicinity. And in those days the grower
: argued that it was better to leave the stools
and get a few bananas than chop them out
and get none at all. As the stools seldom
died, there was an excuse for believing that
eventually the plants might throw off the
disease.
The position to-day is very different. The
grower knows that a plant with bunchy-
top cannot recover, and realising that even
one is a menace to his healthy plants he
is always on the alert to detect bunchy-top
in its earliest stages. That is a simple
matter, for when a portion of the youngest
leaf on an affected plant is held up to the
light and looked through from the under-side,
broken dark-green streaks (sometimes a few,
sometimes many) are to be seen along the
fine veins of the leaf, perhaps along the
midrib, and even in the leaf stalk at times.
This method of detection never fails, and
destruction follows. The same hole can be
replanted at once with a healthy plant.
The reported “outbreak” of bunchy-top at
Tomewin was not an “outbreak” at all, as
all the diseased plants were found to be
primary infections; that is, they were
diseased simply because they had been
obtained from bunchy-top-infected stools in
another plantation. Certainly this shows
laxness on the part of authority in that
suckers from a plantation in which there
w r as disease could be sold, but it does not
show that bunchy-top is spreading. Of course,
up till the time primary-infected plants are
discovered and destroyed they constitute a
source of danger. The disease can be trans-
mitted from them to other plants by the
banana aphid, thus causing what is termed
secondary infection. It is cases of secondary
infection that give the true indication of
the. bunchy-top position, and such cases are
rare.
THE VALUE OF POTASH.
“Wilt”; “K. Alyum” (B. 4/3/’3l) is un-
convincing. He states, first, that potatoes
fertilised with potash did not yield much
more heavily on the firs't crop, but showed
outstanding improvement on the second crop,
grown fro'm potash-fertilised tubers. No men-
tion is made of a check plot of unfertilised
tubers, grown within the potash spuds, to see
if those tubers were any better that season.
A different season will account for aston-
ishing variations in yield. He states also
that a top-dressing of potash stopped defolia-
tion of his citrus trees within a. month, but
again there is no reference to a check plot, of,
say, three rows of trees being left without
potash. Rain or even humid conditions and
change of weather will govern the defoliation
trouble just as readily as potash.
I dispute the value of manurial tests car-
ried out in boxes, as recommended by “K.
Alyum.” For one thing, the boxes prevent
the influence of subsoils. They will have
an even quality of soil throughout their
depth, 'whereas in the field the soil varies
from the surface to the subsoil. I say the
most effective trials are in the field, with
check plots of no manure, and also with
plots containing such necessary fertilisers as
super., but without potash, ammonia and the
like.
My conclusions, drawn from repeated tests
on various crops, in different soils and under
varying climatic conditions, are that potash
in the sulphate form does not materially
benefit the average crop; in several tests it
appeared to definitely retard the yield of
both peas and beans. If similar trials in
other parts of the country can definitely
show a regular improvement in yields, then
we have learnt something.
’POSSUMS ON FARMS.
“Wandi”: Now and again in the close
season, and in isolated parts of N. S. Wales,
complaints are made about damage done by
’possums on farms, and there is a desire to
wipe them out from the surrounding bush —
where there is any bush. My experience is
(Land Page continued on page 26.)


To-Jays
• ji
aid
to sparkling
HEALTH and FITNESS
NEW
‘Pep’ In a Few Minutes
H
€
m
There’s nothing like
Cream of Yeast to calm
the Nerves in tense,
exciting moments!
WHY be nervous, weak-looking and depressed? You can put
new pep into your jaded body; new sparkle in your eyes; and
gain several pounds of healthy “stay-there” flesh, improving
your looks and fitness amazingly—by means of this New Yeast Com-
pound. Everyone who tries Cream of Yeast says it is a marvellous pick-
me-up ! Not only makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes,
but it has no equal for banishing “pasty” skin, nerve troubles, indiges-
tion, headaches, sleeplessness and “run-down” conditions generally.
Bony limbs take on attractive curves; ugly hollows vanish—you quickly
become a different being when you take this remarkable remedy.
Thousands
say “Cream
of Yeast is
LIFE!”
‘lt has
done me
a lot of
good 1
9
I
m
m
m
m
m
Gum Weight
and Stamina
NOW!
ONE
User says:
“I find great
relief in Cream
of Yeast; it has
done me good
in several
ways. Had
teen in ‘ Hospital’ and ‘ Sani-
tarium.’ Was going back in health, and
was in a very bad way. Before finishing
my first bottle of Cream of Yeast I
began to improve. I have spent no end
of money on other medicines, but none
have accomplished the good that Cream
of Yeast has done.... Such a vast im-
provement in so short a time.”
-A.E., Young, N.S.W.
\
m
m
mt
A Leading Newspaper says : “Cream of Yeast is
a re-vitaliser. Its great beneficial health-giving power lies in the
fact that it quickly tones up the whole
system and so corrects the trouble
at its root. The combination
of essential substances
makes Cream of
Yeast the great-
i est tonic pick-
me-up known."
GAIN
NEW ‘PEP’
TO-DAY—
Amazing Vitality To-morrow
This is something new in rejuven-
ating “pick-me-ups”—the benefits
come with surprising rapidity, yet
results are lasting. Cream of Yeast
combines yeast and other medicinal
agents of known and proven value
—in handy tablet form. Safe and
reliable. Unfailing results.
It is folly to be thin, nervous and lacking in “pep”
when thousands, once run-down and ill, tell how they
gained 31bs. to 15lbs. in 2or 3 weeks —and immediate
new strength—by simply taking Cream of Yeast.
Quick Benefit
—or Money Back!
Get a package of Cream of
Yeast from the nearest
Chemist. Take as directed
on bottle, and if after this
generous trial you are not
thrilled with the weight and
health benefits gained, your
money will be refunded by
Amalgamated
Laboratories,
Wynyard
Square,
Sydney.
WHAT CREAM OF YEAST DOES
Relieves Headaches and 'Neu-
ralgia in If minutes. Banishes
Depression, Low Spirits, Brain
Fag in 8 minutes. Relieves
Acidity, Sour Stomach, Indiges-
tion in 3 minutes. Relieves
Periodical and Abdominal Pains
usually in 12 minutes.
Clears up Influenza Colds,
Catarrh attacks, Rheumatism,
Aches, Pams, etc., within 15
hours. Gives marked increase of
Forceful Vigor and “Pep” in
15 minutes. Clears Pimples,
Boils , Muddy Skin and! Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Famous
A thlctcs
train on
Cream of Yeast.
o
All Chemists and Stores,
1/11, 3/6 and 5/9.


B
■
■
i
II
P*™'
Riding boots
further reduced!
Known throughout the Common-
wealth for their supple toughness. . . .
their lightness, elasticity and comfort.
. . . .Abbey Riding Boots now can be
purchased at prices lowered to meet
the times.
Lined completely with soft leather,
fitted with’stout elastic insets at ankle,
they fit easily. . . .without the least
strain over instep.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish (6d),
or a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF... 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 22.0.
MAY’S
BROADCAST
FERTILISER SPREADER
When purchasing a Fertiliser
Spreader, bear in mind that the
following features are exclusive
to the “May” and have helped
considerably in placing the
“May” in its present pre-
eminent position:—
FIRST.—The supreme simplicity of
the “May” both in mechanism
and operation.
SECOND. The “May” spreads at
least five times quicker than the
ordinary box or drill machine.
THIRD.—The double -piece hopper
makes “Chambering” of the
manure impossible.
FOURTH.—The CURVED spoons
on the CONCAVE bronze dis-
tributor plate ensure a perfectly
even distribution.
FIFTH—The regulator is so sensi-
tive that the quantity may be
gauged to within a few pounds
per acre.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
New South Wales:
DALGETY & 00.,
Argvle Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
10 Parramatta Road, Oamperdown.
South Australia:
W. Y. SCRUTTON,
34 North Terrace West, Adelaide.
Queensland:
CLARK & FAUSET,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
West Australia:
EASTWOOD’S HARDWARE STORES,
Murray Street, Perth.
Tasmania:
W. HART & SONS PTY., LTD.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
J. H. STUTTERD,
Wynyard.
H. C. BUCHANAN,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Manufactured by
Chandlers
Exsgszaziasaiass
234-236 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
276-294 Brunswick Street, Fitzroy.
And at BALLARAT, BENDIGO,
WARRNAMBOOL, HORSHAM and
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
sSENBBteT
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/- (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUMTg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
wimm
V*
inmH
1164-750
“V
Exide Batteries are obtainable from
your Local Garage, Car Dealer or
Exide Service Station,
You don't
carry a spare battery
The one you have must not fail
So much depends on your
battery that you cannot
afford to take risks—your
comfort, your convenience,
your safety demand unfail-
ing reliability.
With an Exide Battery you
can be certain of the kind
of service you expect, and
the cost is so small com-
pared with other charges—
only a small fraction of
what it costs you for petrol,
tyres or insurance.
Your present battery is
probably an Exide; if not,
when next your battery
needs replacement, instal
Exide and enjoy the super
service it can give you.
£xii>e
The Life Battery
FOR CARS, RADIO W HOME LIGHTING
N.S.W.—Exide Battery Service (Gib-
son, Battle & Co., Ltd.), Hunt
and Commonwealth Sts., Sydney.
Vic. and Riverina.—A. P. Sutherland,
Queen’s Bridge, South Melbourne.
Queensland. —Exide Battery Service
(Q.), Ltd., Adelaide Street, Bris-
bane ; Sturt Street, Townsville.
South Australia and Broken Hill. —
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd.,
97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Westralia. —M. J. Bateman, Ltd.,
Magneto House, Milligan Street,
Perth.
Tasmania. —Medhurst & Sons, Collins
Street, Hobart.
H 2.
that the animals are troublesome only where
there, is timber among or contiguous to
ripening grain. The ’possum likes a tree
where it feeds, or a high stump, or a limb
projecting upwards from a log. Round any
ot these it will strip every cob of corn it
can reach. Wheat it can manage from the
ground, and it is also fond of green lucerne ;
but where there is no feeding tree or sleeping
tree in the vicinity these crops are quite
safe. . The ’possum doesn’t travel very far
from its home tree, and that is generally
situated where there are good feeding trees,
such as gum and box, close at hand. The
black or dusky species is the worst on farms,
and it is scarce. The common ’possum is
the silver-grey, and that frisky little animal
is easily kept at a safe distance by destroy-
ing its harbors.
But as the ’possum is valuable for its fur,
it ought to be in the interests of every
landowner to protect it. A few years ago
a grazier near Scone got £lO3 for the right
to trap ’possums in one of his paddocks
for 10 weeks. Another sold the ’possums
on his run to trappers for £5OO. The pur-
chasers trapped 3000, so that the price paid
was at the rate of 3s. 4d. per head in the
bush. ’Possums are worth more to-day, and
as they live chiefly in the trees their
numbers have no effect on the carrying capa-
city of the land for horses, sheep or cattle.
Where a timbered paddock adjoins the
cultivation, sheets of cheap flat iron along
the bottom of the dividing fence will keep
them out. It costs a few pounds, if the
whole line has to be done, but the pelts
soon pay for that. In fact, it pays to throw
a bit of lucerne over at night where there
are not many feeding trees. Hollows do
not matter much, for the ’possum is an
easy animal to provide with sleeping quar-
ters. Its natural bedroom is a tree-hollow*,
but, lacking that, any old place suits it to
sleep in. Even in well-timbered country I
have found ’possums squeezed under loose
sheets of bark, coiled in a leafy bush, and
often in a corner of the house or barn ; and
one morning, hearing a noise among the
fowls, I discovered one snuggled in a nest-
box that was nailed to the wall of the
foAvlhouse, Now and again I came upon one
blinking drowsily in the sunlight, having had
a hard fight, with a goanna and been for-
cibly ejected from its hollow.
The farmer or selector who desires to
protect the ’possums on his land for the
sake of the fur must get rid of the goanna
and keep out the fox. These bushrangers are
fheir worst enemies.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Some time ago I dosed my mare with a
pint of linseed oil. She has now begun to
scour badly, and has fallen away in condi-
tion. I have given her flour and cornflour
mixed liberally with damp lucerne chaff, but
this seems to have no effect. What is the
correct treatment?— -1994.
Feed generously three times a day on
good oaten chaff, and place in her food once
each day for 14 days a powder composed
of lo’z. Epsom salts, 1 drachm sulphate of
iron, 1 drachm powdered gentian and 1
drachm powdered aniseed. Keep her tied
up, with ample water beside her. Lucerne
chaff is most unsuitable.
How to treat a horse suffering from wind-
galls?— 2033.
Treatment depends on the length of time
the condition has been standing, and also
the type of gall. A vet.’s advice should be
obtained.
My horse has developed a thin blue film
over one eye, and each morning a long thread-
liloe piece of matter can be pulled from the
corner of the eye. Latterly a white speck
has appeared on the blue film. Also, this
week half an inch of worm appeared outside
the bowels. Treatment? —1966.
Bathe the eye twice a day with a solu-
tion of one teaspoon of boracic powder to
one pint of water. Bathe for at least 20
. minutes each time, using a clean soft piece
of cloth. After this apply to the eye with
a dropper or a bit of clean rag a few drops
of solution of 1 dessertspoon of powdered
zinc sulphate and pint of clean boiled
water, cooled off. Apply also an ointment
of one part yellow oxide of mercury and
nine parts vaseline. This ointment should
be introduced under the upper or lower
eyelids after the soreness has disappeared.
Place the animal in a cool dark place dur-
ing the day and keep a clean covering over
the affected eye to shelter it from the light,
wind and dust. For worms, administer
through the mouth: turpentine, 20z.; raw
linseed oil, 1 pint. The animal should be
starved for 24 hours before drenching. The
drench should be given slowly, and on no
account should the animal’s throat be pressed.
I wish to lease an island off the coast of
N.S.W., big enough to make a living by rear-
ing rabbits and goats for tneir skins and car-
cases. Is such an island available, or other
cheap rough land?. —2022.
You can’t get an island, but there are
large areas of Crown land within the State
which might suit your requirements. Com-
municate with Lands Department, Sydney.
How should I treat used oil from a motor-
car so that it may be mixed easily with water
for spraying purposes? —l7o3.
Mix the oil with soap and boiling water.
You would obtain more satisfactory results
if you used one of the proprietary miscible
oils.
(1) What gross return may be expected
from two acres of berry fruit grown in suit-
able country? (2) What is the best variety
to plant? —lBS3.
(1) Approximately £l2O per acre. The
cost of production, including interest on
capital invested, is usually two-fifths to haif
of the total value of the crop. The personal
factor, soil, climate, distance from railway
and markets, etc., have an important bear-
ing on results. (2) Depends on locality.
The loganberry is usually found most profit-
able. A bulletin on small-fruit culture, obtain-
able from the N.S.W. Agriculture Depart-
ment, sd. including postage, deals with berry
culture.
(1) How can surplus banana suckers be
removed from the stools without injuring the
remaining plantsf (2) How long should
the flower be left on the bunch before break-
ing off? (3) Are there male and female
banana suckers, and if so how can they be
identified? (4) How long after a bunch of
bananas has opened out on the stalk is it fit
to pull. (5) Gan the male pawpaw tree be
made to bear fruit? —l939.
(1) Use a desuckering tool. (2) Until
the lower hand of the bunch is firmly set. (3)
No male suckers are produced. (4) Varies
from four to four and a half or even five
months if the winter is prolonged and cold.
(5) No, though occasionally it produces
inferior fruit, following upon the production
of odd female flowers on the flowering branch.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“A.A.A.”: At present the most profitable
means of marketing farm produce is on
the hoof. Stock to command a satisfactory
price must be in first-class condition; which
means that well-balanced pastures must be
continuously available. In wheat districts
a mixture of grazing lucerne and Wimmera
rye grass has achieved this. Six sheep
per acre have been carried and fattened on
this mixture. My advice to wheat-farmers
is: Grow grazing lucerne and Wimmera rye
grass on old cultivation paddocks.
“M.W.8.”: Old chaffcutter-knives make
good slashers. Bolt handles on, and you will
be surprised at the ease with which they cut
scrub and the size of the tree that can be
slashed.
“Orel”: For dealing with ground suckers
and small seedlings a hand-made mattock
weighing about 41b. is just the thing. Buy
a light pick, the sort that has an iron-shod
handle. Get the blacksmith to make a grub-
bing blade on one end not exceeding 2in. wide
and Bin. or 9in. long, measuring from the
centre of the eye. On the other end have a
blade like an axe, about 3iin. in width at
the cutting edge and about 7in. from the
centre of the eye. The total overall length
should not exceed 16in., and a bit shorter
is better for working in very thick scrub.
“Tried It”: A word of warning to those
who have been advised to apply tar to the
nostrils of a cow blown after too liberal
consumption of clover. Be sure that it’s
Stockholpi tar, and not coal tar.
“L’Fou” : If you water your cows from a
trough put a little lime in the water. Cows’
milk averages a higher lime content than
limewater. As most Australian soils are
deficient in lime this means a heavy drain
on the system. And a little lime in a
muddy dam will clear the water and make
it more wholesome.
“O. de Y.”: When rust eats through the
guttering, cut a piece of canvas or clean
sugar-bag big enough to cover the weak spots
and overlap a bit. Clean inside of guttering
t horoirghly, taking care not to knock more
holes in it; give the channel a generous coat
of paint; next paint one side of the canvas
till saturated. Fit the patch inside guttering
over the leaks, painted side against the
painted metal; then give the canvas a final
edat, making sure that the edges lie flat. If
paint is not available tar will do, but thin
it by warming before using. A length 1
patched two years ago is still going strong.
Though Japan periodically buys small lots
of sheep in Australia, mostly of strong wool
types, very little is heard of them afterwards,
the general impression in Australia being
that the country is quite unfitted for sheep-
farming save on a doll’s-house scale. While
that is true of the traditional Japan, the
reverse is the case as regards Hokkaido, the
large northern member of the Japanese group,
about whose only claim to fame once w r as
that it harbored the hairy Ainu. According to
“Japan Trade,” sheep-growing for wool is
steadily progressing there. A photograph of
a flock on the Tsukisamu run shows a very
useful type of sheep pasturing on a flat open
plain, well grassed with a thick short growth.
The sheep are in fine condition, and are not
housed in the winter. On this particular
run, which is used as a sort of stud farm,
the stud flock is maintained at about 1200,
the yearly increase being from 700 to 800.
These are sold to smaller holders, many of
whom now run sheep in addition to pig-
raising and dairying, which are making great
progress in this corner of the world. Shear-
ing on the island usually take place in
May, and most of the wool goes to the War
Office woollen factory at Senju.
“Azac” : A bunch of Gros Michel bananas
exhibited by J. H. Barnes at Townsville show
comprised 128 with a total weight of 761 b.,
or an average of over Boz. Some of the
bananas were 13in. long and 6Jin. round
in the thickest part; individual fruit weighed
as much as ll|oz. Now, Tweed River
growers, trot out your best fish yarns con-
cerning big bunches of bananas!
“Wongi” : “Valerin’s” (B. 14/1/’3l) ques-
tion covers a wide range. The cheapest work-
ing of land I know, with the smallest risk
commensurate with the present price of
wheat, is freshly-cleared forest country in
the Westralian wheat-belt, wrnrked by culti-
vator and drilled in between April and May
15. In districts with a 12in. rainfall or, better,
6in. during the growing period will return
about 18 bushels : lin. more is worth a fal-
lowing. There are no weeds or grasses; the
new land is in good tilth, and it can be
cleared by advances from the Agricultural
Bank on a 20 years’ repayment scheme.
“Fernie” : The man on the land in M.L.,
whether he is grazing sheep, spanking cows,
or running a mixed farm, is becotning a firm
believer in the virtues of pasture top-dress-
ing. It has taken some time to wean him
from the notion that lime and super, are
panaceas for all sorts of soils, but he’s learn-
ing. Comparing the 1928-29 season with
1929-30 there was an increase of 31,559
acres (5 p.c.) in the area to which basic
slag was applied, and an increase of 33,493
acres (10.8 p.c.) under artificial manures
other than super, and lime. The area under
super, increased by 158,075 acres (9 p.c.),
and the area under lime by 136,290 acres
(61 p.c.). The total area top-dressed in the
1929-30 season was 2,650,748 acres, an in-
crease of 265,566 acres (11 p.c.) on the pre-
vious season. The figures given can’t be
made to tally, because in some instances
there was an application of other fertilisers
in conjunction with super, or lime, or both,
on the same land, but the aggregate figures
show that the Dominion farmers and graziers
have found that it pays to top-dress.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Trained nurse, Woy Woy, Sydney, will take few
convalescent nerve cases. Baths, boats, fishing, male
attendance.—2o69.
Handy man (59), Sydney, wants work garden,
painting, carpentering, etc. Refs. —2067.
Cook, Swiss (40), wants job in South Australia
or Far North; 18 years’ exp. in back country, good
baker, no objection to camp-0ven. —2073.
Young man (27), Sydney, wants job of any sort
out back. Office and schoolteaching exp.—-2139.
Ag. Col. graduate, Sydney, wants employment on
sheep station or sheep and wheat farm. —2052.
Law clerk, N.S.W., served articles, wants position
town or country, good exp., all branches. Refs.
—2051.
Registered pharmaceutical chemist (28), Brisbane,
wants position town or country. Refs.—2o6l.
Lady teacher (N.S.W.), six years’ exp., all subjects
to Intermediate, French and music, desires appoint-
ment to subsidised school or position as governess.
—2174.
Single man (25), Tasmania, five years’ exp. as
barman, wants job anywhere in Australia. Refs.
—2123.
Small amount of capital wanted for co. with
Commonwealth rights of process for printing in colors
on packing cases. Contracts pending.—2lo7.
Three prospectors, Sydney, each with £lOO, want
partner with - equal capital; must be able to drive
car.—2loB.
Wanted experienced dairyman with £2OO capital
as partner in established dairy, Q’land coast. —2161.
Man with geological knowledge to join prospecting
party to Northern Territory. Liberal allotment of
shares.—2os7.
To buy Jan., 1930, issue of “Bridge Magazine,”
London.—2oBo.
A few seeds of the tung-oil tree.—2oB9.
Information Sought.
(1) Is there any demand for writers to
abridge and simplify stories by great authors
to make them suitable for school children,
and on what terms is such work under-
taken. (2) How could knowledge of the
subject be attained? —1998.
(1) No steady demand for such abridge-
ments. When a demand does occur it is
generally from the educational world for a
specific book. Terms would be a matter for
arrangement with publisher, if any. In all
oases where copyright has not expired it
would be necessary to get the author’s con-
sent. (2) There is no book on the subject.
Pocock’s “Precis Writing 1 for Beginners”
might help.
(1) How does one obtain a position as
plumber aboard aP. and O. boat( Pay and
qualifications? (2) Same information regard-
ing a hairdresser? —2054.
(1) Applications for employment should
be made to the superintendent engineer of
the co., 122 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.3.
Pay, £l4 10s. per calendar month; qualifi-
cation, general knowledge of ship’s plumbing.
(2) Apply to the superintendent purser of
the co. The hairdresser pays a premium
of from £lO to £7O, according to the number
of passengers carried.
(1) How much of France's war debt was
repudiated? (2) Did France manipulate her
currency or flatly refuse to pay? —2oB7.
(1) There was no repudiation. By a
mutual agreement made in 1929, France
was allowed to liquidate her debt and
accrued interest thereon owing to the
British Government, amounting to about
£620,000,000, by making 62 annual pay-
ments of £12,500,000. (2) There was neither
a manipulation of currency nor a refusal to
pay in connection with this transaction.
France discharged some of her obligations
to other creditors in francs of depreciated
value.
When the remains of Deeming the mur-
derer were exhumed at Melbourne gaol, the
skull was examined by anatomists. What
was their report on the subject. —2oBB.
Prof. Colin Mackenzie found the skull to
be typical of prehistoric man, of nearly the
most primitive type. In some respects there
were resemblances to anthropoid formation,
and the arch of the skull was distinctly
simian. The cubical contents of the skull
were much less than normal, and a cast of
the Java skull ( Pithecanthropus erectus )
fits Deeming’s skull like a cap. The skeleton
was more like that of a giant ape than a
man, the fingers reaching to the knees.
Deeming was a throw-back, physically and
mentally, to the Stone Age.
Should the tomato be classed as an edible
fruit or a vegetable? —2o93.
That is a matter of unsettled controversy.
Funk and Wagnall’s Dictionary describes it
as a “fruit highly esteemed as a vegetable” ;
the “Encyclopedia Britannica” says it is
“much esteemed in salads and as a veget-
able” ; Webster’s Dictionary refers to it
as a fruit only; and the “Farmers’ Hand-
book” calls it a “fruit or vegetable.”
What is the meaning of the following
bridge terms-. (1 )Ruffing your partner. (2)
see-sawing. (3) Without one. (4) Missis-
sippi heart hand. (5) Yarborough. (6)
Sneak? —2125.
(1) Leading a suit you know he can
trump. (2) Occurs when partners, each
being short-suited in a different suit, trump
each others’ leads alternately. (3) Latest
London way of saying “One no trump.”
(4) A dodge of Yankee sharpers. The
player to the right of dealer is dealt a hand
so strong in hearts that he will bid it to
the limit. Other hands are so stacked that
the bid is bound to be defeated. (5) A hand
which contains no card above a nine. (6)
A singleton, led so that the player can
trump in the next time the suit is led.
(1) How is the basic wage fixed in
N.S.W.? (2) For what period is it effec-
tive? (3) How is it altet'ed. (4) What is
the present N.S.W. basic wage? —lB29.
(1) After hearing evidence and by
judgment of the Full Court of the Industrial
Commission of the State. (2) Till a new
wage is declared. (3) By application of
parties to the Commission not more than
once every six months. (4) £4 2s. 6d. for
males; £2 4s. 6d. for females; plus child
endowment.
(1) When and from where did the dingo
come to Australia. (2) Did Binghi bring
him? (3) Do they run in packs? —2lo6.
(1) and (2) As remains of dingoes and
extinct marsupials, diprotodons, etc., have
been found together it is believed that the
dingo migrated from Asia thousands of years
ago, before the arrival of the abos. (3) No,
although they will combine to tackle cattle.
As a general rule, Warrigal hunts alone or
with his life-long mate.
(1) Who discovered Lake Eyre ( S.A.)?
(2) How large is it? (3) Particulars of
the water, depth, source, etc.? (4) What
would be the result if a canal were cut con-
necting Lake Eyre and the sea? —2ll.
(1) B. H. Babbage, in 1858. (2) There
are really two lakes: North, approximately
2970 sq. miles (90 miles by 40 miles) ;
South, 460 sq. miles (38 miles by 16 miles).
(3) They are from Ift. to 4ft. deep, salt,
though fresh in flood-time, and occasionally
dried up. This district is the driest in Aus-
tralia, the average yearly rainjfall being
sin., but many creeks in flood-time drain
into the lakes’, the best known being the
Diamantina and Cooper. (4) As they are
in country 39ft. to 60ft. below sea level, it
has been calculated that about 5000 sq.
miles would be inundated, but no economic
advantage would be gained, while the cost
w-ould be a matter of hundreds of millions.
(1) When was the Sydney Mint opened?
By whom was it closed and when? (2)
What other mints are in existence in Aus-
tralia? (3) Who pays for their upkeep and
who reaps the profits? (4) Do the mints
turn out gold in any other form but coins?
—2104.
(1) The Sydney Mint was opened in
1855 and operated until 1926. It was closed
by the N.S.W. Government owing to losses
incurred. (2) Melbourne, opened in 1872;
Perth, opened in 1899. (3) Vic. and W.A.
provide an annual endowment in return for
which the mint receipts are paid into their
respective State Treasuries. Until recently,
apart from expenditure on buildings, new
machinery, etc., the accounts paid into the
Treasuries fairly balanced the mint sub-
sidies. (4) The mints issue gold bullion,
partly for the use of local manufacturers
(jewellers and dentists), and for export,
India taking a considerable quantity of gold
cast into lOoz. bars.
I was umpiring a cricket match at Singa-
pore. A player made a long drive which was
caught by “long-off” in his pith helmet.
“Long-off” appealed for a catch, and at the
same time banged the ball to the wicket-
keeper, who downed the stumps with the
striker a yard out of his crease trying for
his fourth run. I gave “not out” on both
appeals and declared a hit for 9. There
was a riot and I was ordered off. How do the
rules stand on the matter? —2105.
You were right except that the runs
awarded should not have exceeded 5. Law-
-41 says; “The fieldsman may stop the ball
w'ith any part of his person, but if he stops
it otherwise the ball shall be dead and five
runs added to the score; whatever runs
may have been made five only shall be
added.”
(1) On what conditions, constitutionally,
can a new State be formed? (2) Is it
treasonable or seditious to advocate the
formation of a new State? (3) Should
the Government of an existing State defy
the Federal authority and act contrary to
the Commonwealth Constitution, could new
States be formed without complying with
constitutional requirements? —2lls.
(1) The Commonwealth Parliament “may
admit to the Commonwealth or establish
new States,” and may impose such terms
and conditions as it thinks fit. Also a new
State may be formed by separation of terri-
tory from a State, but only with the consent
of the Parliament thereof. This is inter-
preted by Quick and Garran to mean that
the consent of the Federal Government is
necessary in any case. (2) No; since the
formation of new States is legislated for in
the Constitution. (3) Such a case is not
provided for in either Federal or State con-
stitutions. Law cannot be applied to
anarchy.
(1) Has the Commonwealth Government
legal power to alter the basis of currency,
nationalise banking and partly or wholly
repudiate indebtedness to (a) Australian,
(b) overseas lenders? (2) What rights
have the States in currency and banking
matters? (3) Can the States legally repudi-
ate their indebtedness? —2l2o.
(1) The Constitution empowers the Com-
monwealth Parliament to make laws with
respect to currency, coinage, legal tender,
banking, other than State banking; also
State banking extending beyond the limits of
the State concerned, the incorporation of
banks and the issue of paper money. Quick
and Garran’s commentary cites a. case in
which a Canadian Act affecting currency
was disallowed by the Queen-in-Council, but
the authors say that it is not probable that
the Governor-General of the Commonw'ealth
is instructed to reserve for royal assent bills
dealing with currency. The Commonwealth
Parliament has no constitutional power of
repudiation of debt, explicit or implied. (2)
A bank solely managed by the Government
of a State which has provided the capital,
and which does not extend its operations
outside the State in which it was formed, is
outside Federal jurisdiction, save in the
matter of note issue or any other sort of
tender. A State “may not coin money nor
make anything but gold or silver coin a
legal tender in payment of debts.” And as
the right to coin money is reserved to the
Federal Parliament a State has practically
no power in regard to currency. (3) No.
Ilow to get rid of fleas which infest an
earth-floored garage?. —l93s.
Fumigation by means of burning rock or
flowers of sulphur in the proportion of 41b.
to each 100 cub. ft. capacity of the room
is effective. Place sulphur in metal recep-
tacle supported on bricks in a tub containing
a little water (so as to avoid risk of fire) ;
sprinkle the surface of the sulphur in the
receptacle liberally with methylated spirits
so as to facilitate burning. Seal up all open-
ings, ventilators, etc., and leave the room
under fumigation eight hours.
(1), From what date has the Q’land Gift
Duties Act been operative, and to what gifts
is it applicable? (2) Are trustees in Q’land
bound to render to beneficiaries annual state-
ments concerning the administration of
estates under their control? —1708.
(1) From July 1, 1926. It applies to
all gifts of £lOOO in value or over. (2)
They are required to make an annual return
showing all property in their hands or under
their control in cases where a beneficiary
has not an agent in Q’land to take posses-
sion, or where he cannot be found or uncer-
tainty exists as to his identity; but no provi-
sion is made for rendering annual accounts
to beneficiaries. A trustee is, however,
always liable to account to persons interested
in the estate.
Origin and source of ambergris. How
much do pieces generally weigh when found?
—2147.
It is occasionally found in the intestine
of the spermaceti whale. If ejected soon
after it forms, it is soft and black; if it
remains and accumulates it causes death. The
carcase is gradually broken up, eaten by fish,
etc., and the compact brown or grey material,
which is much harder than the black variety,
floats to the surface of the ocean and may be
washed ashore. It is this variety which has
been found in pieces weighing up to 2001 b.
In the majority of cases, however, the pieces
vary from a fraction of an ounce to a few
pounds.
How can I establish and maintain a lawn
of buffalo grass from cuttings? —2o99.
Trench the ground and remove weeds, etc.;
then level with the back of a rake
or a board. Roots are the best to use, and
should be set in rows about 6in. apart. As
the runners grow peg them down with hair-
pins and keep them covered with soil. Plant-
ing can be done up to end of April in a warm
position, but generally the roots are put in
after August. Until the lawn is established
do not use a heavy roller. Soil with a per-
centage of sand is most suitable. Unless
the land has a natural fall drainage pipes
should be put in.
What is the best sawdust to use in smok-
ing fish? —2148.
Pine, cedar, banksia and practically ail
the Australian hardwoods produce chips,
shavings, bark and sawdust that give a
suitable smoke. A little pine-dust mixed
with hardwood is advantageous.
(1) What is yacca (“grass tree”) gum
used for? (2) Is there a market for it?
(3) Method of extracting gum and preparing
for market? (4) Price obtainable? —1858.
(1) Used in the manufacture of varnishes,
floor polishes, spirit lacquers, sizing of paper
and gramophone records. (2) Yes, in
London and in Brisbane. (3) The gum is
harvested by separating the leaf-bases and
the resin from the core, breaking up with
an axe, and sifting the resin from the
leaf debris. The fine particles of resin are
then weighed, bagged and branded. (4)
About £l6 per ton, f.o.b.
Who were the first ten leading poets (Brit-
ish) of other days in order of merit? —1677.
That’s a bit like asking what are the best
fruits or the best flowers. Names that
would occur to the average well-read man
are: Shakspeare, Milton, Shelley, Words-
worth, Byron, Keats, Tennyson, Burns,
Chaucer and Coleridge; but to decide their
order of merit is a matter of individual taste.
What was the value of Australian primary
and secondary products and of exports of
same for the year ended June, 1930? —1415.
Details are not yet available, but a
preliminary estimate indicates that the value
of production of primary industries will
approximate £250,000,000 and manufactured
products £160,000,000. During the ten years
1919-20 to 1928-29, inclusive, primary pro-
ducts constituted 96.13 p.c. of exports and
manufactured products 3.87 p.c.
(1) Amount of loans floated from 1923
to 1929 by Federal and State Governments
and purpose of loans? (2) Increase of
Federal and States’ public debt during same
period? (3) Sinking fund contributions
during same period? (4) Amount expended
during same period on Australian naval con-
struction, and whether loan or revenue
expenditure ? —1136.
(1) June 30, 1923, to June 30, 1929:
Commonwealth, works and services, etc.,
£60,908,000; conversion and redemptions,
£211,914,000; total Commonwealth loans,
£272,822,000. States, works and services,
etc., £78,959,000; conversion and redemp-
tion, £64,575,000; total States’ loans,
£143,534. Total Commonwealth and States,
£416,356,000. (2) Commonwealth debt at
June 30, 1923. £358,509,000; at June 30,
1929, £377,622,000; increase, £19,113,000;
States’ debt at June 30, 1923, £546,976,000;
at June 30, 1929, £726,406,000; increase,
£179,430,000. Increase, Commonwealth and
States’ debt, £198,543,000. (3) Common-
wealth account, £24,971,737; States’ account
(June 30, 1925, to June 30, 1929, only),
£4,899,118; total, £29,690,855. (4) The
Commonwealth Budget, 1930-31 (pages 72),
shows the following expenditure under the
heading of Naval Construction for the years
June 30, 1923, to June 30, 1929, inclusive:
Works, arms, equipment, etc. (from re-
venue), £775,972; loan expenditure on
works, £314,636; total, £1,090,608. In addi-
tion, £7,400,000 was paid into trust funds
for construction of fleet; of this amount,
£6,619,842 was expended during the years
mentioned.
Brief Answers.
A.C.: (1) A square mile is a square with
sides each one mile in length, or any equivalent
area. A square with sides of 4 miles each contains
16 sq. miles. (2) There are 2,097,600 sq. yards in
a sq. mile.... J.K.: (1) It is a prohibited
drug, and persons caught smuggling it into the coun-
try are subject to severe penalities. It commands
exorbitant prices. (2) and (3) Can’t secure definite
data. (4) Gavitt’s ‘‘Opium” and Downtree’s “Im-
perial Drug Trade”... .J.S.: See Benjamin’s “Vic-
torian Novelists,” Quiller-Couch’s “Studies in Litera-
ture,” Lord’s “Mirror of the Century” and the
“Windsor Magazine” (June-Nov., 1912, p. 643)....
A.A.C.M.: Cerebral thrombosis is the name applied
to the coagulation of blood within the vessels of the
brain... .F.M.A.: Diathermy, or cutting with an elec-
trically-heated knife, is used by all surgeons in certain
cases. It is comparatively old. Healing depends
on the condition of the tissues. You should consult
a surgeon... .K.D.: (1) The Persian goddess of
water. (2) A character in “The Epic of Gil-
gamesh,’’ one of the most important literary pro-
ducts of Babylonia. He is a wild man created by
the goddess Anunu to withstand Gilgamesh, but is
lured into the service of the latter. (3) Also a
character in the Gilgamesh epic. (4) A medical
term for one who finds pleasure in being ill-treated
by another... .M.J.: Provided the testator first
signed the will in the presence of two witnesses,
the fact that he also signed the attestation would
not invalidate his will.. . .A.G.H.: In playing misere
in 500 the joker should be discarded, but if allowed
to remain it is a suit by itself. Holder, if unable
to follow suit, can play the joker or discard a card
of another suit. If the holder leads it he can
specify the suit that must be played to it, but
cannot specify any card of that suit.... J.H.: The
examiner who set the paper states that he cannot
recollect the publication from which the passage
was taken... .A.8.C.: (1) Dobb’s “Russia To-day
and To-morrow” and Lawton’s “Russian Revolution
1917-26” should serve your purpose. (2) Can’t
vouch for the lady... .H.H.M.: Information can be
obtained from Lands Department, Brisbane... .M.C.:
Presume you mean Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing Co.,
whose address is 23 Macquarie-street, Sydney....
F.R.: Home Affairs Department, Canberra....
C.M.: Try Frank J. Huett, Port Swettenham,
Malaya... .E.T.A.: (1) You have no priority,
but rank equally with ordinary creditors.
(2) The banker is not in any way responsible to the
wage-earner... .Gluyas: Write direct to the Q’land
Agriculture Department, Brisbane... .L.A.: Can’t say
for certain, but W. J. C. Elliott and Mark Foy
were among the first... .W.E.8.: No newsagency
business under £l5OO can return a fair living.
There may be some mixed businesses carrying two
or three thousand papers which can be got at
around £5OO, but the best of these offers no more
than a struggle to make ends meet.... L.F.C.: The
book you have in mind, “Australian Nursery
Rhymes,” is now out of print. A copy might be
obtained by advertising... .8.J.M.: Ceylon Teas,
P.O. Box 71, Colombo, Ceylon; and Francis Peek
and Co., 39 Kali Besar West, Batavia, Java, are
good firms. They buy on commission, for cash only.
. ...A.A.H.: You are liable to collect N.S.W. Un-
employment Relief Tax on wages paid, plus value
of board and lodging provided (to be taken into
account at £1 per week). Tax on £lO per
month, plus board and lodging, £4, is 14s. each
month. . . .T.A.H.: Write C. W. Macleod and Son,
148 Phillip-street, Sydney... .New Farm: Yes. A
committee (84 Pitt-street, Sydney) looks after them.
Send us name and address for literature... .G.J.:
Make application to the various shipping cos
L.H.8.: Federal, nil; Vie., £5 15s. (including £4
10s. Unemployment Relief Tax), U.K. and N.Z., nil.
. ...G.H.J.: Procure “Tung Oil from Australian-
grown Trees” from Technological Museum, Harris-
street, Sydney. Price Is J.D.0.8.: Write Air
Board, Department of Defence, Melbourne F.M. J.:
(1) Very few nowadays. Maoriland and Fiji are
among them. There are no restrictions in Eastern
Asia, but no white man should go there looking for
work to-day. (2) Possible, but not very. It would
be a matter of private arrangement. (3) Try the
Ellerman-Bucknall Line, Sydney. Generally, things
in your line are at bedrock the world over....
J.A.L.: You will find a little information about
plaiting in books on art leather-work. Glass’s
“Drawing, Design and Craftwork” contains a few
illustrations of fancy plaits clear enough to follow.
... .R.W.P.: Give the coat one or two dressings
of waterproof oilskin dressing, obtainable, black or
clear, at about 2s. 3d. per pint... .H.G.8.: Write
to Court Reporting Branch, Department of Justice,
Macquarie-street, Sydney, giving date and names
of parties. Cost of a copy of the evidence will
depend on length... .N.C.S.: Before doing anything,
ascertain how the trust was originally created. If
by deed it will probably contain provision for the
appointment of trustees. You cannot, without some
authority at your back, take any steps legitimately.
. ...0.C.: The fund was left by the late H. V.
McKay, and is administered by trustees. Allocations
are made only to public bodies.... E.A.W.: The Fiji
Islands were discovered by Tasman in 1643 and
visited by Cook in 1769. Sovereignty was ceded to
Britain on October 10, 1874. German New Guinea
was occupied by an Australian force on September
12, 1914... .G.H.: As from December 20, 1929, the
only salaries, wages, etc., liable to contributions under
the N.S.W. Family Endowment Act are those paid
to employees whose working conditions are regulated
by State agreements or awards. In the case of
wages not so regulated, it is not necessary to furnish
returns unless called upon by the authorities to do
50.... J.A.F.: They would have to be made under
Customs supervision, and you would have to take
out a manufacturing license. .. .R.H.W.: The em-
ployer should collect tax of 9s. on the fortnightly
payment of £9 7s D.W.P.: (1) 9151 miles.
(2) and (3) No accurate records available... .T. 8.8.:
“Station Book-keeping,” by Vigars (Brooks and Co.,
Sydney). The only way to qualify for a certificate
would be to take a course of instruction from one
of the recognised correspondence schools....
A.G.: The material appears to be slate powder or
silicate of alumina. It is suitable as a filler in
thermo-plastic material for the manufacture of gramo-
phone records. Sample is worth not more than
£3 10s. to £4 per ton when ground to a fineness
of a 200-mesh sieve. R.S.S.: (1) See “Syllabus
of Physical Training for Schools,” published by
Board of Education, London, price 25.; or “Manual
of Physical Training” (London, 1914), price Is. 6d.
(2) Get a local carpenter to quote you for the
making of the apparatus as described in the books.
B.R.: (1) Because the word is of recent coinage.
(2) A moron is a person whose mental capacity has
been arrested; it is derived from the Greek “moros,”
meaning stupid L.F.C.: See Hardie’s “Story Time:
Verses for Children” (2s. 10d.), Maurice’s “Bay
and Padie Book” (ss. 4d.) and “Tales and Tarra-
diddles” (4s. 10d.), Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
C.A.C.: A fresco is not necessarily a frieze,
though it can take that form. It is a method
of painting in water-color on damp lime plaster
so that when the plaster dries the colors are em-
bedded in its surface A.E.H.8.: Apply Jim
Minogue, Ailsa-avenue, East Malvern, Melbourne, who
is Meldrum’s agent.... (Many others mailed.)


ADELAIDES Best-Value Hotel
Pleasing Fare to suit all
purses
e
Live and dine here
just as you wish, at
the rates you wish to
pay. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. 300
rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Hot and cold
water in all rooms.
Yale locks on all
doors. Fire - proof
throughout. Cour-
teous service. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
Guosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Queensland Is Calling!
KEEN BUSINESS
MEN KNOW
that Queensland is most favorably
situated of all the States, and are
planning accordingly. They also
know from long experience that
the circulation claims of
The Daily Mail
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
are dependable claims which have
always been supported by un-
deniable proof. They know, too,
that this great newspaper is cer-
tainly unsurpassed as a business
getter by any Queensland publi-
cation.
Rate cards, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.
N.S.W. Branch, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522. ________
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis: The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Banton, N. 8.
Wales, west of the Blue Mountains,
where Dr. Gherardi, an Italian poli-
tical exile, has settled with his wife
and son, and is establishing a practice.
As yet he does not understand the
people very tcell, and his difficulties
are increased by the local matron, a
good woman, but incompetent, and by
the fretfulness of his wife, who accom-
panied him to Banton against his
but who now, he feels, is making
no effort to adapt herself to his cir-
cumstances. She bitterly resents his
having lost, in gold-mine speculation,
the money that might have taken them
back to Italy, but when he offers to
send her back and support her there
she will not hear of it. Dr. Gherardi
takes consolation from the thought
that he will _ not stay in Banton very
long, and his wife tries to accustom
herself to. the situation by meeting the
local social leaders, though with little
success. They think of her as a woman
who can't fit in anywhere. Dr. Gher-
ardi attempts to have necessary re-
forms made at the hospital, but meets
with stolid discouragement. Allega-
tions touching upon his professional
performance and other misunderstand-
ings make him more than ever deter-
mined to leave, but imperceptible influ-
'•ences work to keep him there. He lias
made a friend of John Cartwright,
Banton’s leading citizen, and is slowly
winning the respect and friendship of
others. But Mrs. Gherardi becomes
more and more intent upon returning
to Italy, and at last, when their house
is burnt down, wins Dr. Gherardi’s
agreement that they should go. Going
to the bank after the fire, Dr. Gherardi
is made to see Banton’s people in a
new light—they have anonymously sub-
scribed £3OO as a token of appreciation
of his work and sympathy in his loss.
w
For the first time he was conscious of
the relation between the gift and his pro-
jected departure. He had scarcely thought
of the usage of the three hundred pounds.
He had been concerned with the thing of
which the money was but a symbol—the
esteem and genuine liking of an alien people
whom he had disliked and distrusted. In
the light of this discovered regard his
flight seemed a base betrayal.
“We can’t go! Teresa, we can’t go now!”
he said impulsively. He went across to
the window and stood looking out on the
street. “I must repay this gift. I can
only repay by service; don’t you under-
stand?” He had had no definite ideas when
he had begun to speak, but as his words
unrolled he achieved conviction. “It would
be treachery, Teresa! I can do something
for these men and women who have been
so kind. With my work I can repay a
little their kindness. But if I go now!”
His words drained every drop of color
from Teresa’s face. Even her lips were
bloodless.
“Y0u....y0u you do not mean this,
Leo!” Her voice was the merest whisper.
He scarcely heard her.
A thing like this disturbed one. It was
so unexpected. He hadn’t thought they
cared a damn about him. He’d despised
them, looked on the town as a mill from
which he would grind the money he needed.
Patronising. That’s what he’d been. He
wanted to bring the hospital up to date,
because such inefficiency interfered with his
pride, marred the performance of his work.
And they had done this to him!
“Le 0”....
“Eh, what did you say, Teresa?”
“Leo, you don’t mean that we are not
going—you don’t mean that, do you, Leo?”
She had stumbled across to the bed and
huddled on the edge, her hands clutching at
the polished brass rail.
He did not turn from the window.
“Not now, dear. We can’t go immedi-
ately. You understand that, don’t you,
Teresa? It would be a base return for
this kindness. In a year or two—l don’t
mean to stay here for ever. But to go
immediately! What do you think your-
self?”
V “I want to go home, Leo,” quietly,
monotonously. “Perhaps you could give
the money back. We do not need it, after
all. Let us give it back, Leo.” She held
her breath.
“No! No! It would be like a blow in
the face. One cannot treat kindness in this
way. We would be ashamed all our lives.
No, let us be patient. It will not be so
bad now, for another couple of years. We
had intended staying for another couple of
years. It will be gone in no time and we
will be able to go away happy. And, after
all, four hundred pounds is not very much.
We will be better off at the end of two
years.”
The room grew misty. She could scarcely
see him. Desperately she clutched at con-
sciousness. “But your work, Leo—all the
great work you were going to do. All
those things we talked of last night, Leo.
Can you forget so quickly? Are you so
easily turned aside by a little sentiment-
ality?” She spoke very carefully. Each
word was a separate effort.
“I wonder—l wonder,” he said musingly.
“Will I ever find repayment to equal this
for any achievement? This payment, which
I have not deserved? Well, we will talk
no more to-night. Try to reconcile your-
self to the idea, Teresa. It won’t be long,
no longer than we had intended. And now
you can feel we have a bond in this kind-
ness.”
“A chain, Leo. Some time you will
realise that it is a chain.”
Chapter VI.
(1)
After the first few days of exaltation,
when he was irreparably committed to re-
maining in the town, Leo was assailed by
many doubts of the wisdom of his action.
These doubts he voiced tentatively to
Teresa, but she made no attempt to subdue
or provoke them. He blinded himself to
the facts behind her terrible passivity, and
tried to believe that she, too, had been
touched by the town’s generosity and was
prepared to meet it gracefully.
“You do not mind so much, do you,
Teresa?” he urged, hoping for an expres-
sion of her real feelings.
“No, Leo. You must do what you think
best.” Dull and listless she countered by
a wall of indifference his efforts to stir her
to an expression of opinion. Because it
was so much the easier thing to do, he
refused to see the bitter truth which she
could keep from her voice but not from
her sullen eyes.
“Would you like to go home? You can
stay with your sister until I come. It
tvon’t be very long.”
“I have answered that question so often,
Leo. I am weary of answering it.” 1
“Perhaps it. would be better”
“I don’t want to go. I have stopped
thinking of home.”
“For the time being.” He waited for
encouragement to continue. None came.
One of the small wooden houses in the
terrace on the hill road was empty. For
want of better accommodation they took
that until anew house should be built on
the site of the old one. Their ex-landlord
invited Leo’s inspection of plans for the
new house.
“You won’t be in that shanty long,
Doctor,” he said. “The builder’s putting
extra men on and the house should be
ready in a few months. Bad luck it’s
summer time. Those houses of Caffery’s
are terrible hot—not fit for dogs. Any-
how” .... He was swollen with his own
kindness. “And within limits I want you
to have this house built the way you want
it. That’s always been the doctor’s resi-
dence in this town. I hope it always will
be, eh? If we make you comfortable?”
Leo went to Sydney and bought new
furniture. Teresa refused to accompany
him.
“You can manage without me,” she said,
and her quiet insistence overcame his per-
suasion. He made a big hole in his savings
and returned in a week.
The furniture arrived in due course and
was put in the terrace house, so much too
small for it. Teresa took no interest in its
disposal. After a long argument she left
the hotel balcony, where she spent the
greater part of her day, and went across
with Leo. The men were hammering and
thumping, good-naturedly, anxious for
direction.
“Where would you like this?”
“I don’t care. Wherever you like, Leo,”
She sat on the edge of the verandah look-
ing down the shimmering street.
“Come inside just for a moment, Teresa,”
he begged. “I have a surprise for you.”
Wearily she followed him into the narrow
dining-room, which even in mid-morning
was like an oven. With arithmetical pre-
cision the men had arranged tables and
chairs and sideboard. In one corner angu-
larly placed was a piano, its dark polished
wood reflecting layers of light. Leo opened
the lid. “See,” he said.
The white mask of Teresa’s face cracked
pitifully. Tears gushed from her eyes.
“Oh Leo, Leo, what have you done to
us!” she said in a strangled voice, and
fled from the house.
When he came to her later at the hotel
she was again expressionless, passive.
“It was very kind and thoughtful of you.
Thank you very much.”
He wished that she had railed at him,
stormed over the expense. Her calm
acceptance was unnatural. God knew he
might be making a terrible mistake in
keeping her here! But what could he do
now?
“I did not pay very much, Teresa. I
bought it cheap,” he said, rather patheti-
cally, hoping to goad her into a normal
outburst.
But she made no reply and he left her
lying as he had found her, staring at the
ceiling.
They moved into the house on a day of
intense heat. There were bush fires in the
hills, and the molten sun beating down on
the roof made the rooms unbearable. Leo
was visiting patients during the afternoon.
Dino was at school.
Left alone, Teresa paced through the
rooms restlessly. From the back door she
could see the rows of untidy, smelling
yards on either side of her; clothes lines
on which here and there a few garments
hung, motionless in the still haze. A climb-
ing rose spotted with withered blooms
adorned an unexpected trellis. The out-
houses were like sentry-boxes in a straight
row. Each of the eight back yards was a
replica of the others.
The smoking hills seemed fearfully near,
and to her disordered mind came neai'er as
she regarded them. She shuddered, and
ran back into the house, but through the
open front door she could see more hills,
hazed and looming. She was convulsed
with nervous terror. She felt herself at the
mercy of the encroaching hills.
She ran out of the house and up the
road. The sun blazed down on her un-
covered head.
(2)
A month passed. Christmas was approach-
ing, their second Christmas in the town.
The heat increased. A week’s intermittent
rain vanquished the bush fires, but the
town, which had baked, now sweltered.
Flies swarmed in millions. Leo suggested
that they embark on the expense of wire-
gauze windows and doors, which the house
lacked.
“Do whatever you like,” Teresa said.
She had made no attempt to add to their
comfort. The house was as the men had
left it, stark and impersonal.
She had taken to lying down most of
the day, but acquired the cunning of the
neurasthenic, and to avoid Leo’s upbraid-
ings preserved a certain amount of control
while he was in the house. Guiltily he
realised that he was spending more time
than was necessary away from her. Her
brooding was a constant reproach to him;
several times he surprised in her eyes that
unspeakable furtive evil which he had seen
once before.
She offered no hindrance to Dino’s
schooling now. She caressed the child less,
and seemed to have become resigned to
his increasing use of English. She would
listen quietly to his babbling of school
doings, and in the afternoon let him run
off to play. The desire to keep him with
her appeared to have died. Leo noticed
this.
One afternoon he found his son playing
marbles with a group of urchins, dusty and
intent, their schoolbags piled against a
fence.
He brought Dino home, scolding him.
“I have told him he should come straight
home from school, Teresa. He deserves
a whipping, eh?”
Dino listened, silent and rebellious.
“No, he does no wrong,” his mother
said. “I told him he could play after
school. He needs companionship. These
children are his only companions. All he
will ever know, perhaps. Who can tell?”
“Well, perhaps it will do no harm,” Leo
answered. “He can have no other com-
panions for the present certainly. But
soon”
The words died on his lips, struck life-
less by Teresa’s strange smile.
His earlier impatience with her, replaced
during these last months by tender sym-
pathy, returned. A man, he thought, can
do so much, and no more. He had offered
her everything except the one thing which
circumstances prevented him offering her.
As the discomfoi't of his physical life in-
creased through her neglect, he gave way
frequently to healthy anger. She endured
it in complete silence, her dark eyes fixed
imwinkingly upon him.
Because of the intense heat he had taken
to sleeping on the verandah enclosed with
blinds. One night, unable to sleep, he
heard her sobbing, a muffled, whimpering
little sound, like an animal’s. He got up
and went into the room. Instantly the
sound ceased.
“What is it, Teresa?” he said.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
BanK offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
’ • ■?«*
K , -V''
C;i: '*]'
.
a
G
A
Happy
|7 OR Children’s Frocks,
Rompers, Overalls,
in fact for all kinds of
Children’s Wear, try “Bo-
Peep” Print. It is obtainable
in a large variety of styles,
designs and colorings, and is 36
inches wide.
Sold by leading Drapers and Stores.
Produced by the makers oj “Tricoline”—the equal
to silk.
Wo<Peep'<print
for Childrens Wear. au j%S:
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write
MR. H. G. RANDELL,
The Grace Building, York Street, Sydney.
w
*5
it
SM
4
i
6
1
a
99
M*
SHIRTS
PYKMAS&SOFT COLLARS
For Comfort, Cut and Economy
TAKING your ease is an easy matter when wearing
“LUVISCA” SHIRTS, SOFT COLLARS, and PYJAMAS.
The beautifully smooth fabric and the fine details of design
are there for this especial purpose. Every garment is trim, stylish,
and finished to perfection. See the many tasteful colourings and
patterns available; the most steady wear and regular washing
will not harm them. Moderately priced and highly durable.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING STORES.
LOOK
FOR
THE
REGIS-
TERED
TAB.
V .
r>
eSSIDS
COUR-TA
THOROLD, HARPER
AND 00. PTY., LTD.,
308 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
181 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
“I I have toothache,” Teresa lied.
“Can I get you something?” He stood
uncertainly by the bed, peering down.
“No. It doesn’t matter. The pain is
not so bad now.”
Silence, darkness, the prickling of the
heat.
“Would you like me to stay with you?”
That cost him an effort. He expected
her to say no. For days she had evaded
him, repulsing his tenderness by complete
passivity. “Would you like me to stay
with you?” he said again.
The whole room seemed to wait with
him for her answer. A moment of inexplic-
able strain, then the tension snapped.
“Yes! Stay with me! For Christ’s sake!
Leo Leo I’m frightened.”
But in the morning she had again with-
drawn, was apathetic as before.
(3)
A farmhand had brought a message
before breakfast, saying that his boss,
Michael Ferrars, was sick and would the
doctor come as soon as possible?
“How far is this place?”
“About fifteen miles, Doctor. You turn
off the Gundibbie-road near O’Brien’s, about
ten miles out.”
“Well, I cannot come now. After dinner.”
The man looked at the hat he held in
his hand, at his feet, then, meeting the
doctor’s eyes, urged unexpectedly:
“His missus asked me to tell you to come
as soon as you could.”
“What is wrong then? An accident?”
“No, Doctor. I reckon he’s just sick.”
“Well, you must give me some idea so
I know what I must bring.”
“If you ask me,” said the man with sud-
den candor, “it’s the booze. He’s been
layin’ into it pretty solid lately.”
Leo returned from the hospital about
eleven, intending to have some coffee and
sandwiches and start immediately on the
long drive. But when he entered the house
Teresa did not answer his call. The rooms
were unswept, the remains of the morning
meal still littered the table, whose cloth,
he could not fail to note, was creased and
spotted. In spite of the new gauze windows
and doors, the flies buzzed and clustered
over the food remains.
The door of Teresa’s room was shut. He
knocked and received no answer, but as he
turned the handle the door was opened
from the inside and Teresa, piling her
tumbled hair on top of her head, con-
fronted him sullenly.
“This is a nice thing!” he said, angry and
disgusted. “It is eleven o’clock! Are you
sick? We must get a servant if you cannot
do the work.”
“I didn’t think you would be home yet.”
Her eyes strangely contrasted with her dull,
monotonous voice.
“That is no reason for this neglect! We
cannot live like this, Teresa. You must
take a little more interest in things. Have
you no pride, no sensitiveness? What must
patients think, seeing you like this? You
fail me at every turn.”
“And you you haven’t failed me!”
Two animals, caged, snarling at one an-
other.
Without arguing further he grabbed his
hat and bag and went out of the house
and to the livery stables. As he went down
Main-street few passed him without a
smile or a “Good morning, Doctor.” Several
stopped to speak with him on local topics.
Because of his state of mind these casual
amiabilities assumed importance These
people were friendly. She could have been
happy enough if she had wished. These
morbid women! A man was a fool to
marry!
As he drove away from the town his
anger evaporated. The road was bordered
on either side by paddocks, yellowish pale
with stubble or drab with scant grass. The
season had been bad, the wheat yield poor.
Sheep nibbled at the short grass, searching
out succulence invisible to the human eye.
Now and again he passed a paddock un-
rolling redly-brown beneath the plough-
shares. Profiting from the recent rain the
fanner was turning up his land, forgetful
of the year’s defeat, commencing the cycle
with patient, beautiful optimism.
He was wearied of the drive and thank-
ful when he saw the gleaming iron roof of
the house nestling at the foot of the range.
He got down stiffly from the buggy. One
of the hinges of the gate was broken and
difficult to open. The paddocks were un-
touched by the plough and no stock grazed.
To the right stretched several hundred
acres of withered crop which had been too
short for the harvester. Something very
wrong here, he thought dubiously, and
speculated on the chances of getting any
fee from these people. He had not heard
of Michael Ferrars, and concluded that he
had hitherto gone to Gundibbie for his
medical attendance. Bringing a man fif-
teen miles for nothing was not a joke. If
Teresa had not upset him he’d have been
more careful per Dio, Teresa was a hind-
rance these days!
He was agreeably surprised to find that
the evidence of neglect ceased at the garden
gate. Inside the paths were smooth and
well kept and the gardens on either side
showed care and planning. The house
needed painting, but the well-swept ver-
andah had chairs, brightly cushioned, and
a tiered stand of vividly green pot-plants.
The curtains hanging at the windows were
spotlessly white.. Yet outside the garden
enclosure he could see rusted machinery,
with ' grass pushing through the wheel-
spokes, a broken tip-dray, a little of old
iron wheels and ploughshares and out-
houses in a deplorable condition. The
contrast was odd.
The oddity was explained when he saw
the woman who opened the door at his
knock. He was used to cool, strong women
framed in low farmhouse doorways;
aproned women whose quiet hands had
learned through work the folly of unneces-
sary movement; who gazed at him with
level eyes which had seen the miracle of
the seasons in their true union with earth,
could contemplate without fear or lone-
liness the little world of work at their feet.
At first sight he placed Ferrar’s wife as
a woman eminently adapted to the life
which she was living. In the crispness of
her starched print dress, the well-cared-for
hair piled on top of her head, white strong
teeth glimpsed in her formal brief smile,
he saw a personal fastidiousness which made
the order around her inevitable. Yet even
in that first instant he found more in this
woman than he had found in others of
her type. Here was some quality new to
him, defying the swift classification which
training and experience made easy. He 4
regretted slightly that his profession made
a woman a thing to be analysed, rather
than enjoyed.
“I’m glad you’ve come, Doctor; my hus-
band seems very sick.” There was a
scarcely perceptible hesitancy in her deep,
controlled voice.
When she spoke Leo knew that he had
heard her voice before, but the circum-
stance eluded him. He knew he had never
seen the woman. If he had, he would not
have forgotten her.
“I seem to remember meeting you before,
Mrs. Ferrars,” he said tentatively. “But I
cannot recall exactly when.”
“Well, it was hardly a meeting, Doctor.
I was at Mrs. Jones’s the night my cousin’s
baby was born. Mrs. Gilbert.”
So this was the face belonging -to the
voice which he had so accurately memorised.
He became conscious of her as he was not
usually conscious of the women he met
through his profession. He realised that
she was very beautiful. It was a long time
since he had noticed, in just this way, that
a woman was beautiful.
She led the way inside. He noticed the
polished floors, the jars of geraniums, the
well-filled bookcase.
His scrutiny of the room was interrupted
by the woman saying, a shade breathlessly:
“Doctor, my husband does not know that
I’ve sent for you. I think he might be a
little impatient. But he’s been so sick.
I”
“Suppose you tell me something about
him before we see him. It will be easier,”
he said gently.
She motioned him to a chair. He fore-
bore to look at her; this prying into the
depths of people’s lives, disturbing the sur-
face and reaching down to grapple with the
slimy evil growths, was not pleasant.
“It is the alcohol poisoning, eh?” he said
in a matter-of-fact voice.
“Yes,” she answered. A slow flush dyed
her throat. “I suppose you’ve heard. All
the district knows. So it isn’t much use
pretending.” She seemed to be answering
a question put by herself.
“Not much use,” Leo said kindly.
“He’s been drinking heavily for years.
About six months ago he had an attack
like this and Dr. Jones put him in Gun-
dibbie hospital. Gundibbie is really nearer
for us than Banton, Doctor—we take a back
road.” The interpolation seemed a tacit
apology. “Dr. Jones told my husband then
that if he didn’t stop drinking there might
be very serious consequences. He told me,
too, quite plainly. Cirrhosis of the liver.
For a time I thought that Michael was
trying. I think he did try. I helped him
all I could. But I haven’t very much in-
fluence over him.”
She said all this unfalteringly. One felt
that she had become familiar with the idea
of her husband being a drunkard.
“I’m glad Sam told you just what was
the matter. I wish he’d told you as well
that the chances of our paying you are very
small. I’d like you to have understood
that.” He got the first hint that beneath
her apparent control she was dangerously
near breaking point.
“Don’t let us mind that now. You are
a bit upset, aren’t you? I suppose you got
very little sleep last night.” His sure,
strong voice seemed to guide her past the
danger point. She looked at him, seeing
him for the first time.
“You’re very kind, Doctor. I don’t know
just what made me blurt out like that. But
I I’m tired of pretence. I’ve been pre-
tending for so long—l just felt I couldn’t
bear it any longer. I suppose you wondered
why I sent for you instead of Doctor Jones
or one of the Gundibbie men. We owe
money to the three of them. It’s the same
with the tradespeople. I want you to
know.”
The quiet, controlled voice stripping away
her self-respect disturbed him. “Suppose
we do not say more about this for the
present,” he said. He felt thrown off his
accustomed balance. Jerking himself back
to reality, he spoke harshly: “Let us see
your husband. Tell me, has there been
much pain?”
(To be continued next week.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
William Booth picked up another race
with Ticino, a division of the Highweight
Handicap, at liis home course, Rosehill, on
Saturday. His Doncaster candidate was
npt favorite, though he deserved to be on
his form in the Dundas Handicap a fort-
night previously; plenty of lives was avail-
able, the odds shortening a point. Cita-
mon was in most request at threes; Traut-
wein put a lot of money on Sidney George
once more, only to leave it with the ring.
Trevallion (8 to 1), a three-year-old in Poi-
son’s stable, tried to win all the way, .but
Ticino was too good for him at the finish,
though the Valais —Pereskia gelding ran
wide at the home turn, and then Williams,
who rode him _ very confidently, cut things
rather fine; Citamon was third and Holey
was doing well when it was all over. This
little chap was a bit above himself, and may
be worth bearing in mind.
_ Galloping in a style reminiscent of his
sire ©hrysolaus, Sir Chrystopher (3 to 1)
romped home in the second division, and with
121 b. more than Ticino carried cut |sec. off
his time, which was lmin. 26? sec. Beckwith
(G to 1) and Sir Duninald (9 to 2) were in
the minor places. Sir Chrystopher has Bst. 51b.
in the Doncaster, and is worthy of respect for
that race, as he has obviously come on a
lot. He is trained at Newcastle, and so is
Loch Garry (5 to 1), who downed the favo-
rite, Wedding Feast, and Port Said, another
well-backed one, in the Trial Stakes, which
was run in the same time as Ticino’s race.
Sun Eagle, the brother to Wee Glen, was
fourth. This fellow ought to capture a
handicap presently.
Two in-and-out horses, Gemlight and John
Buchan, cost the public heaps of money in
the Club Handicap. John Buchan was a
warm favorite, but ran abominably; Gem-
light (8 to 1), who had Shaped just as badly in
a poorer field at the Hawkesbury seven days
before, made every post a winner. During
the week he had been sold and had changed
stables; also Simpson was given the mount
instead of Knox; but these matters did not
prevent people from saying loudly what they
thought. Chide (25 to 1) was a good second
—his first glimpse of fornj on this side since
he tackled Nightmarch in a weight-for-age
race at Rosehill last season. Donald (3
to 1) was third. Inducement, who had
dead-heated with Gemlight at Warwick Farm
on Feb. 21, when most people were of opinion
that his rider threw the race away, was
another who ran atrociously, and it was
remarked that some bookmakers are very
anxious to lay him. It was a most peculiar
race altogether.
Troilus, here mentioned on March 4 as
an early winner, duly arrived at the head
of a big field for the Rydalmere Handicap,
but McShortodds offered no better than 3
to 1. Comanche and Meadowdale, for both
of whom there was good support, followed
him home ; but neither had any chance with
the Walker-trained horse, who should win
again presently. Cronulla, who led into the
straight, came down and two horses fell
over him, but neither steeds nor jockeys
were badly hurt. Jimmy Munro had two
very easy rides on Sir Chrystopher and
Troilus.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Railway Handicap : Sir Chrystopher; next,
Killarney.
Rawson Stakes: ,Waterline; next, Bal-
loon King.
Autumn Handicap: Troilus; next, Donald.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap: Tre-
vallion ; next, Weotara.
Parramatta Mile: Ring Boy; next,
Gleaner.
* * * *
After experiencing a disastrous time at
several meetings, Melbourne punters struck
form at Caulfield. There were seven events,
and the bookmakers lost over six of them. Idle
Time, owned and trained by a brother of
Bob Lewis, led off by taking the Narong
Hurdle. This Gadabout gelding supplanted
Dark Dawn from favoritism, being backed
from 5 to 1 down to two points less. He is a
novice jumper, but has had more experience
at the game than Dark Dawn, who belongs
to A. S. Chirnside. Dookie attempted to
run away with the race, as he did in the
V.R.C. Pines Hurdle on Newmarket Handi-
cap Day; but Idle Time met him 121 b. better
this time, and easily turned the tables. In
fact, Dookie could run third only Dark
Dawn wearing him down at the finish.
Westralian horses are not doing much
good in their present invasion of other States.
There was a plunge in the South Yarra Han-
dicap on Einga, a Claro mare brought from
Perth by M. T. McGrath, who visited that
capital with the Ivalgoorlie-owned Taisho.
Einga had every chance, but finished in the
ruck. Honors went to ITathalie, by Sarche-
don, who was raced by her breeder, Norman
Mendes, but now carries trainer Fred Foul-
sham’s colors. Ten minutes before the start
Hathalie touched favoritism. She went out
in a point less demand than Einga, winning
from the costly Dominant, with Double It,
from Adelaide, third.
Dave Price, who trains the little stallion
for F. W. Kitchen, the soap manufacturer,
labelled Aleman for the St. Kilda Handicap,
and with Duncan in the saddle Aleman
was favorite. Ormolu should have won.
This Comedy King filly, whom Dick Bradfield
trains for Clive Leonard, a member of the
V.A.T.C. committee, lost much ground by
running out at the home turn, and Aleman,
hugging the rails, secured control. Duncan
had to ride him right out to score by half
a neck from Ormolu, who came again.
#•••••
Harry Gabell has done remarkably well
with jumpers for J. A. MacLeod and C. F.
Taylor, and he is starting to sweep the
boards with Cellist, a son of Violoncello.
Heavily backed for the Gordon Steeplechase,
the gelding won in hollow style. It was a
two-horse. race. Sir Gleam mixed it with
the favorite as far as the last fence, where
Cellist cleared out from him.
The new V.R.C. rule forbidding more than
20 horses to compete in races of a mile and
under, run round a turn, is resented at Caul-
field, where repeated (but futile) efforts are
made to avoid divisions. For the Orrong
Two-year-old Handicap 22 juveniles accepted.
One was taken out on the course, but there
had to be a division, and arrangements for
the remainder of the afternoon were dis-
turbed. Orrong winners were Wildrake (son
of Thrice), trainfed by Bert Price, and Valiant
Maid (by Valiant, son of Valais), belonging
to F. E. Shillabeer, whose tender has been
accepted for erection of tote buildings at
Flemington. Valiant Maid scraped home by
a head from Black Alec, who had been seri-
ously hampered by a rival running across
him at the start.
The best contest of the afternoon was wit-
nessed in the Übique Welter; half-heads
divided Hyade Pajrlr, Easby (brother to Easing-
wold) and Isocrates. Duncan was on Hyde
I ark, and he would have won on either of the
others. The unlucky runner was Gay Salute,
who is trained by Lou Robertson. He had
a wretched passage in the straight: with a
clear run, the Australian-born son of Gay
Crusader would have scored. Robertson wiil
visit Randwick with Soulton, First Arrow,
Stephen, Princess Betty and The Abbott.
* * * *
“Rottnest”: Westralia had its first experi-
ence of the double tote at Belmont. Punters
were given a chance to pick the winners of
two successive races, and briskly they came
at it, some capital dividends resulting. One
combination. Threeania-Royal Packet, re-
turned £l2 4s. for 55., or 48 to 1, the first-
HIS STRONG SUIT.
FIRST CADDIE: “What’s the best the old man’s been round in?”
SECOND CADDIE: “His new plus-fours.”
named nag starting at s’s and Royal Packet
at 7 to 2. Another nice divvy resulted from
the Metonic-Thiasrooma double, which re
turned £l7 6s. for the dollar bet. Metonic’s
price in the ring was 10 to 1, Thiasrooma's
was 5 to 2 —and he dead-heated at that. If
no one picks the double the tote pays on
first and second. Altogether, the machine
figures gave Ike Mcßaggs a bad showing up,
and the small punter at least is all for the
innovation.
* * * *
“Hotham”: After hanging off the tote for
donkey’s years, Victoria is now a whole
hogger on the question. The completed
regulations governing the working of the
machine in the Cabbage Garden provide for
straiglitout, place and win, and place totes.
With four horses or fewer a dividend is paid
on the winner only. For place dividends the
pool is to be divided into three equal parts,
and if one or more of the three placed
horses is not backed its share goes to the
dividend paid on the other one or two. Win-
dows will be available for 55., 10s., £1 and
£5 bets for win or place. At present, at
any rate, the straiglitout and placed systems
only will be permitted on registered courses.
The win and place tote is to be confined
for the present to Ascot course. No double
tote has been provided for, but this may
come.
* * * *
“Tliormanby” : Heard a couple of friends
arguing about the pronunciation of “Podokes,”
the label of a youngster in one of this sea-
son’s classics. The owner with a fondness
for tongue-twisting monikers was fairly
common in mid-Victorian English racing, and
was rarely popular with the bookmakers.
One famous Yorkshireman gave the ring such
a series of Euripides, Themistocles, Demos-
thenes, etc., that a deputation implored him
to try something simpler. He named his
next three youngsters Cromwell, Ireton and
Ironsides. All three were started in a
youngsters’ race at York. When the owner
came on to the Knavesmire, the bagmen were
dealing roundly with the first-named pair,
but were leaving the third severely alone.
Then one of them, still suspecting the classi-
cal connection, took the plunge. “All’ll laay
a hoondred to fowtifrl-i'on-sidees,” he bellowed.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
When Wally Hancock met Russ Critcher
at Sydney Stadium last month, Hancock
led on points, although the contest was
called a draw. These well-matched welters
again battled at Ruslicutter Bay last week-
end, and their second clash really resulted in
a draw. Critcher (10.2 j) did more fighting
than Hancock (10.6 f), who held on a lot,
and was crowned at the end of 15 fast
rounds. But the youngster was down twice
as the result of a slip in the Btli and of
a push in the 12th. Hancock’s effective left-
hooks made the encounter a very even one.
* * * *
Boxing people said Fred Hannaberry was
flying at too high game when he met
Tommy Fielding at the Leichhardt Stadium.
Hannaberry (10.6|) started nervously and
Fielding (10.2), outfighting his man in the
opening rounds, seemed Certain to score a
short-cut victory! The Australian attacked
in the next two terms, however, and though
roughly handled in the 7th, afterwards
landed so often with either hand that he ran
out a popular winner on points.
* * * *
Jack Carroll boxed brilliantly against the
oft-defeated Belgian middleweight Liebert
at Melbourne Stadium. The Belgian was
much the heavier man, but Carroll, showing
great speed, knocked him all over the ring.
Val Quirk stopped the slaughter in the
fourth round.
* $
“Swan”: Joe Pluto, an African negro who
once cut a considerable figure in boxing
circles, died recently in Perth, aged 60. Joe,
whose proper name was Brown, came to Mel-
bourne when quite a youngster and dropped
into the boxing game there. A really good
featherweight, he fought with credit in this
country as well as in England and America.
The great mills of the little man’s career
were his two draws with the incomparable
Griffo in Melbourne in 1888.
Racquet and Bawl
Tht Australian lawn-tennis championships
wound up last week with the men’s doubles
and the mixed ditto. The N. S. Welshmen
Donohue and Dunlop proved too good for
Crawford and Hopman, winning by three sets
to two after a stiff struggle. The mixed
doubles introduced a popular favorite of last
year in Mrs. Westmacott, better remembered
as Miss Hood, of Queensland. Partnered by
Jim Willard, her severe hitting carried the
pair through to the final. Here they encoun-
tered the Crawford couple, and in spite of
great game by the Queenslander the
N.S.W. pair won in two sets by 13 games
to 9. Saving only the Linton Cup for the
juniors, N.S.W. has thus carried off all this
year’s championships.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: A quaint tennis happening
marked the Victorian country week tourney
in Melbourne. H'urry and Wyatt were drawn
to play Bdone and an unspecified partner.
Wyatt dropped out through illness and
Boone failed to produce his offsider. So
Boone and Hurry teamed up, took a forfeit
from Hurry and Wyatt—and won. That
sort of thing always follows on these freak
incidents.
* * ■ * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
tennis heads are getting worried because
they have received no confirmation from Bill
Tilden of his intention to visit Australia with
a team of fellow-professionals. William has
been cutting about the States playing exhibi-
tion matches with Kozeluli, and is
evidently doing so well that overseas tour-
ing is pigeon-holed for the present. Possibly
the fact that he might have to take his
gates at. the present rate of Australian ex-
change is worrying him. He has always
been rather keen, even when he was an
amateur, on that very important aspect of
amateur sport.
* * * *
“Bruce Low”: The tennis strain runs pro-
verbially strong in some families, as the
cases of the Dohertys, Renshaws and others
served to show. But for a real family
affair commend me to the closing stages of
a tournament recently held in Old Virginia
in the United States. The semi-final of the
women’s doubles saw a mother playing with
one of her daughters against two other
daughters. Ma’s team won, and also col-
lected the final from some outsiders. The
daughter of the first part was stacked up
against a sister in the women’s singles, and
won tliat after outing Ma and the other
sister in the earlier rounds.
* * * *
‘‘Top Spin”: The council of the Davis Cup
nations which met in July made several
alterations in procedure, the chief of which
was the division of the American zone into
two sections, north and south. Hitherto
Canada, the United States, Cuba, Mexico and
the South American countries had been
humped together into one. In future a nation
may challenge in either American zone it
desires, but, owing to the geographical nature
of the southern division, challenges must be
lodged by September 30 of the year prior
to the actual year of play. This means that
if the United States wins the Cup again, as
is likely, the Argentine, say, desiring to
challenge, must issue the defi before the
result of the Cup final is known. The winner
in each zone will meet to decide who shall
tackle the European winner for the right
to challenge the Cup holders.
.* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: A variation on the
perennial theme of the tennis “amateur”
comes from Germany. Prenn, the German
Davis Cup representative and one of the
most useful players in Europe, was fined
£l5 for “slandering” a firm of racquet-
makers by declaring that their statement
that he asked a sweetener of £l5O for using
their racquets was a lie. It was shown that
though Prenn was not after the brass in hand,
he wanted an equivalent job in the racquet-
making firm’s office. The German tennis
authorities are to carpet Prenn over the
matter, but they might as well let the matter
drop. There is not an amateur sport in
existence which does not make the path
smooth for the expert whose services are
desired. Most of them boggle at cash pay-
ments, but when it comes to the matter of
finding a job, the acceptance of which is
an act of professionalism under the laws of
the International Amateur Federation, they
are all in the joke.
The Watermen
“Shell”: American preparations for the
Uos Angeles Olympiad indicate that the
Yanks are out to play their usual game of
licking creation. In addition to ■ the
elaborate stadium for the field and games
events, and a special swimming bath, a huge
stadium has been put in hand for the row-
ing and sculling races at Long Beach, some
miles from the city itself. The stadium will
be long enough' to give plenty of room for
the 2000-metre events for sculls and oars,
and the sloping banks on either side will
accommodate 100,000 people, with a stand at
the finish for 10,000 others. Down one
side, also, will run a railway, on which
the race can be followed. Boathouses, dress-
ing-rooms and all mod. con. will be pro-
vided, and the land-locked waters of Alami-
tos Bay, close by, are available for training
spins.
* * * *
“Teddiugton”: Henley regatta, which
kicks qff on July 1, will be graced this year
by a German crew, the first to visit the
Thames since 1914. Germany has never
boated a winning eight-oar crew at Henley,
though she has a success to her credit in the
Goblets, a double-scull event, which was won
in 1903 by Kalus and Ehrenberg, of the
Berlin club, while a German finished second
to Canadian J. Guest in the Diamond Sculls
last year. Fritz, by the way, seems to have a
flair for double sculls, for a German pair,
coached by ex-champion sculler Ernest Barry,
won the event at Amsterdam Olympiad.
sje * *
“Shrewsbury” : Pearce has gone into train-
ing at St. Catherine’s, near Ontario, for the
Diamond Sculls at Henley. Only two Aus-
tralians have scored in the Diamonds to
date. One was F. S. Kelly, a Victorian, who
won in 1902-03 and in 1905, and took the
1903 Wingfields, which carry the champion-
ship of England as well. The other is Cecil
McVilly, of Tasmania, who won in 1913.
“Headington”: One of the toughest motor
events in Britain is the annual Winter Trial
from London to Exeter, which is run by the
English Motor Cycle Club every Christmas.
This year’s event drew an entry of 183, and
though the weather was, for once, fairly re-
spectable, the arduous run, with its numerous
lull climbs, knocked back 20 of the starters.
Forty-six makes of cars were represented,
running from babies up to 12-cylinder
machines. Most of the cars were English
makes, but both the Ford and Bugatti firms
were entered and got among the prize-takers.
The run was decided on points awarded by
observers stationed along the route, and 72
of the competing cars won the gold medal for
flawless performance —remarkable consider-
ing the. state of English roads even in a mild
midwinter.
* * * *
The finals for the Spalding Cup, which
carries with it the right to a free trip to
Britain to take part in the open champion-
ship, were played in Melbourne, Rufus
Stewart being returned the winner with a
total, for 72 holes of stroke play, of 309.
The second round saw a hard fight between
Rufus and the Victorian Naismith, who
finished four down on the South Australian
professional.
3: i]i * *
“Mid Iron”: As Frank Eyre, Australia’s
open champion, was prevented by trade con-
tracts from taking part in the Spalding
tourney, the Long Reef professional’s friends
are considering the matter of raising a fund
to send him to Britain as an independent.
Eyre began his golf as a caddie at Manly
where Joe Kirkwood first blossomed, and
has developed since the Kirkwood-Hagen
visit, from which he learned a lot.
He * * *
Wales won the European Rugby inter-
national series by beating Ireland 15-3 (3
tries, one converted, and one field goal to a
try) at Belfast. This is the, first time the
Taffies have headed tlie list since 1922, and
they came through without loss, beating Ire-
land, Scotland and France and drawing with
England at Twickenham.


'4M i
Your Easter
Suit from
MURDOCHS
A SUIT in the style you want, the shade you like, and your
exact fit, ready to wear, can be obtained from Murdoch’s
at an extremely low price.
Two-piece Sports Suits
These can’t be bettered for Easter Holiday wear.
In popular fancy tweeds, light and dark effects.
Sports cut —fitting comfortably, and giving perfect
freedom
Price
Superior qualities
63/-, 75/.
4 51-
Smart Sac Suits
Favorite grey Worsted Sac Suits for Men; made
by specialists in authentic style. Graded sizes.
Exceptional value
Superior quality worsteds 63/-, 84/-, 95/-
In fine twill serges .'.... 84/-, 90/-, 105/-
551-
WRITE FOR NEW AUTUMN AND WINTER CATALOGUE—FREE
We Pay Freight.
If writing address your
letter to Desk “R.”
✓
parK^GEQRGESLSYDNEY
“The Store That Serves Australia.”
Gert: "Ho\n do they catch them.
Bert, f "
«
Bert’. Oh ; v o u know - just coax
v em into a net!'
<SERT; GOODNESS 1 . I WONDER
WHAT bait they use?"
Bert: Why, seauns wax / of course"
The Ins and Outs
“Fitzcfay”: Of course it was impossible
for N.S.W. and Victoria to finish the ci’icket
season without their annual barge. This
time it l'osc from a complaint made by the
Ma State that the Victorians had deliber-
ately and of malice aforethought delayed the
game with N.S.W. in Sydney, to' the great
disturbance of the local peace of mind. The
Victorian Association repelled the charge
with unutterable scorn, and remarked that
the N.S.W. communique showed the bad
sportsmanship Victorians had been led to
expect from N.S.W. After that it called
the janitor and had the offending document
deposited in the w.p.b. with a pair of tongs—
or at least one infers that it did.
* * *
“Aigburtli” : England is by no me'ans satis-
fied with the tour of Chapman’s team in
South Africa, and by the tone of the criti-
cisms is getting l-eady to take a few scalps.
One of these is likely to come from the curly
pate of our old friend Chappie. The selec-
tion committee is also' being arraigned, and
a demand for new blood to select the Eng-
lish side against the Maorilanders is being
made. Leveson Gower, the chairman of the
committee, is not popular, and the probability
is that he will be replaced by G. Jackson,
captain of Derbyshire, and in great repute
in that capacity, and J. C. White, of Zum-
merzet.
* * * *
“Tenakoe” : As expected, Tom Lowry has
been appointed captain and manager of the
Maoriland cricket team for England, while
another playei-, F. W. Allcott, will act as
treasurei'. This course has been taken in
the interests of economy, but the precedent
is one that might be imitated by future Aus-
tralian selectors. It is an absurdity to say
that the duties of a manager on tour are
too arduous for a playing cricketer. Hous-
ing and travelling are all arranged for the
team by others —for instance, Cook’s see
to the train transport, etc.—and there is
really little for .such an official to do. The
result is often that the superfluous one has
to think up something to show his authority
and justify his existence; hence “strained
relations.”
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The West Indians, when
they departed for home the other day,
taking with them the good wishes of all
who came in contact with them, left skipper
Grant behind. The young man from Cam-
bridge is bound for Rhodesia, where he in- K
tends to get married as a preliminary to
taking up mission work. He has precedent
to guide him. One at least of the famous
Studd brothers dropped ci’icket to snatch
the heathen brands from the burning, and
Hubert Ashton, who promised to make a. big
name for himself in the game, did the same
thing. Both, like Grant, were Cambridge
men.
* * t- *
“Glenelg”: Arthur Richardson, who has
spent the summer in his home State of
South Australia, where he has been keeping
his hand in with club games, is off again to
Lancashire to play with the Bacup club. Three
of our West Indies visitors of yesterday will
be playing in Lancashire this year—Constan-
tine and Francis, both old hands, and St.
Hill, the spin bowler, who was not utilised
by Grant as much as was 1 expected. More
than one South African is also figuring with
Lancashire and Yorkshire League teams.
* t- * *
“Popping Crease” : Though he had to play
second fiddle to Ponsford in the Test averages,
Don Bradman has had another good first-class
season, scoring 1422 runs, and thus topping the
1000 in a season for the third successive
year—an unparalleled feat in Australia.
With 79 per innings he is very close
to the top of the averages, too, the only man
ahead of him being Queenslander Thompson
with 79.16 for 6 completed innings. Grirn-
mett took 74 wickets at 19.14 each, and
Ironmonger 68 at 14.29.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Bloggs”: For the second year in succes-
sion Sydney’s A.I.F. Cup was won by a long-
liandicap man who put in a scratch-player’s
card. Last year’s winner was .on the 18-mark,
and with a net scoi-e in the sixties knocked
the “tigers” clean out of the running. Billy
Longworth (14) won on Wednesday at Ken-
sington with a 40 out and 41 home, thus
equalling the score of that persistent com-
petition entrant C. Nigel Smith fscr.), and
getting within a stroke of W. Corry ( plus
4), one of the several pros, who competed for
the first time. All these cards were returned
at Kensington, which, under normal cir-
cumstances, is the most difficult of the three
links on which the Diggers battled this year.
On Wednesday, however, Killara wasn’t as
easy as usual, the fairways and greens being
heavy after rain, and Manly was without a
howling nor’-caster for a change, so matters
were more or less equalised. The organisers
of the event are going to be faced with a
difficult job if they mean to prevent it degen-
erating into a farce next year. Apart from
the fact that competitors will again have to
play on three courses, and perhaps more, the
handicap problem seems pretty well insuper-
able. Many players in and around Sydney
improve out of sight, but aren’t rehandi-
capped till they do something sensational
like winning an A.I.F. Clip.
* =ls * Sfc
“D.”: Billy Longworth, winner of this
year’s A.I.F. Cup, doesn’t look like the cham-
pion athlete he still is, being fat and the
possessor of a tired and lumbering gait. But
lie has never let himself get “fat inside,”
which was one reason why lie became one of
the greatest long-distance swimmers Aus-
tralia has known ; and he concentrates hard
on everything he does. He is president of
the N.S.W. Amateur Billiards Assoc., and a
champion at both billiards and snooker. He
put up a poor show in the A.I.F. competition
at Killara last year, slicing his first drive
into the rough, and going on to make most*
of the other errors that are practicable on
the easy North Shore course. He did three
3’s and five 4’s at difficult Kensington on
Wednesday, and made no mistakes with any
club but his putter. Billy has been golfing in
England, and was given some useful tips by
leading pros, there.
* * * *
“Steel Shaft”: Charles Lane is proud of
the work 'he has just completed in remodel-
ling and bunkering the Commonwealth course
at Oakleigh (Vic.). Lane spent 18 months
abroad and visited 160 different courses in
his search for ideas. The (Commonwealth
now has the most difficult and best bunkered
lay-out in Australia. Under perfect golfing-
conditions not one of the Victorian profes-
sionals could equal bogey in their 36-hole
qualifying test for the Spalding Cup.
* * * *
“Gregory Terrace”: Brisbane City Coun-
cil is already counting up its prospective
profits on the municipal golf-course now
nearing completion. The cost will work out
at about £5OOO. It is expected that the
annual income will be about £lOOO, which
should give the council a handsome return
for its money.
* * # *
“Brassey” : Sydney’s first course for night
golf somewhat resembling the real game, as
opposed to the “minnie” infatuation, was
opened recently at Sunnyside, on the road to
Parramatta. Tommy Howard was respon-
sible for the lay-out, and the 9 holes at
present in use are shortly to be increased
to the regulation 18. The course is for pitch-
ing and approaching practice, the holes run-
ning from 50ft. to 150 ft. in length, and being-
well trapped with sand bunkers. The greens,
about 15ft. square, are of turf. The course
is well lit electrically, and should afford
plenty of opportunity for really useful prac-
tice to players who have little time for the
game save at the week-ends.
Car and Cycle
“A.”: “Chevroford” (B. 4/3/’3l) errs
when he states that the baby car in which
Hector Macquarrie and R. B. Matthews in-
tend to girdle the earth is the one that took
them from Sydney to Cape York. That car
was aboard the Tahiti when she sank on her
voyage from Auckland to Raratonga. “Baby”
was not saved, and in all probability now
serves as a chariot for King Neptune.
“Charley’s Mount”: That weird annual
motor competition the Monte Carlo Rally
has been won by an English racing driver,
S. 11. Davis, in a 20-li.p. Armstrong-Sidde-
ley. In this race the competitor may start
from any point in Europe which he may
decide upon. He has to observe regulations
and be in at the finish by a certain hour on
a fixed day. There is an elaborate system
of handicapping and point-awarding which
is adapted to the conditions under which
the competitor is running. Davis chose to
kick off from John o’ Groats, in the far
north of Scotland —last year Mrs. Bruce
made her start from Lapland. Davis scored
full points for reliability and the condition
of his car at the finish.
sis sfc ❖ sfc
“Disc Clutch”: A noteworthy motor-cycle
l’un from Brisbane to Melbourne and back
stands to the credit of Leslie Cecil, who
hails from Bananaland. He rode a 2|-h.p.
Velocette, with a sidecar containing Mx-s.
Cecil and the family pup, and the journey
was completed at the rate of 94 miles to the
gallon of petrol. The little machine was
an oi'dinary model, which had done 3000
miles of solo work before being put on to
the job of hauling a sidecar and passengers
on the long trek. It came out of the severe
trial splendidly, and the total bill for petrol
was £4 2s. 6d. Allowing for lubrication,
the actual running cost was under £5, an
eloquent testimony to the worth of the
British-built motor-cycle.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The last week or two has
seen a remarkable exodus from Australia of
motor-cyclists keen on picking up some of
the good money going nowadays on British
tracks. Not only are the Australian cham-
pions who popularised the game in Britain
returning after a visit to their native land,
hut a host of new aspirants are joining up
with them under engagement to British track
syndicates. It is probable that a number of
the emigrants will visit America this season.
The dirt-track game is unknown there, but
Frank Arthur is to open a campaign in the
land of the wooden ham.
Miscellaneous
“Splash”: N.S.W. won the Regal Cup for
the inter-State water-polo championship,
wresting it from the Vic. holders in Sydney
last -week, after a series notable for rough
and foul play. Water polo encourages
the utility side of swimming as compared
with the spectacular but useless sprint rac-
in.g. It has only been revived as an inter-
State game within the past few years. It
was killed originally by dirty work, and will
suffer the same fate unless its controllers deal
strictly with offenders.
* * * *
“Torrens”: Brisbane rowing clubs (B
25/2/’3l) are not alone in their misfortunes,
The other day, the shed of the Adelaide
Rowing Club was destroyed by fire, 15 boats
los * y Be cost is estimated at over
£.j0()0. W° rs ® even than the loss of the
craft was the destruction of many irreplace-
able photographs and records, which fur-
nished a detailed history of South Australian
rowing.
*
“Blue Dun”: That very enthusiastic body
the N.S.W. Rod Fishers’ Society is finding
itself hampered in its self-appointed task of
stocking the N.S.W. streams with trout fry.
It is an expensive job, and the treasury is
rather bare in these days. Many enjoy the
N.S.W. trout-fishing who are not members of
the society and do not have to pay a rod
license, as is the case in all other parts of
the world where rod-fisliing is followed,
These are urged by the society to become
members, and thus help in the upkeep of a
fine sport which is also a national asset,
The secretary can be found at Bull’s Cham-
bers, Martin-place, Sydney.
» * * *
“Bias”: Bowlers have again been incurring
the displeasure of the heads who have been
attempting for years past to compel them to
use standardised woods. The Australian
Bowling Council recently made it law that
all legal bowls should have a full major
diameter of 4| inches. Certain sophists
have seized on an interpretation of Law 17
to support their contention that a difference
of l-32iid of an inch is allowable. Except in
the case of bowls manufactured prior to
December, 1930, this will not be tolerated.
Players persisting in the use of the illegal
si ze will be drastically dealt with, even to
the extent of taking out prohibition orders
a S a i ns t them.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: R. Tisdall, of Cambridge,
ma( j e his presence felt in the inter-Varsity
S p or ts at Stamford Bridge, the Cantabs scor-
inc bv eiaht events to three Tisdall
W( f n tl f e 12 0 hurdles in 15*sec., and then
collected the shot putt with 40ft. Bin. After
that he won the long jump with 23ft. OJin.,
and the 440 yards in 51 seconds. Apart
from the number of wins on one programme,
Tisdall’s performance is remarkable by rea-
son of the excellent figures he recorded.
Oxford’s team included the ex-King’s School
(N.S.W.) boy Wansey, who was fourth in
the 440 and third in the half-mile. Maori-
lander Kalaugher was fourth in the 120
hurdles.


UndeS
/Royal
jK&rrant
w
ToH.M.
Kin*
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Weslleidsiecfc
maims
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
Quricsllridsit*
REIMS
•‘MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
r
r
CASH’S RIBBONS WASH WITH THE
GARMENT.
Cash’s Washing Ribbons once threaded
need never be removed. The dainty
pastel Shades come out of the wash like
new. Cash’s Wash Ribbons meet every
requirement of modern Lingerie, and
are universally popular for Shoulder
Straps. Ask your Draper.
TO MARK
ALL LINEN
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.”
e
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
' NWrite for Name Style Circular to
JjD T pAOTT AUSTRALIAN
Ot J. l/rtOU, WEAVING CO PTY. LTD
85 CUBITT ST.. RICHMOND MELB
r* r <*Es
J2d
7/6
6d
3/
■3c?oz
3/6
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
Even Government House is giving a party
in honor of Chief Scout and Chief Guide
Baden-Powell. It takes place on Thursday,
and if it’s a patch on the cheerio their Stale
Exes, extended to Earl Beauchamp it will
be a night to be talked about. The Girl
Guides are staging a reception at the Blax-
land Galleries and the Mayoress is brewing
a kettledrum. On Saturday the Guides and
Scouts will burst from every nook and crevice
of Randwick racecourse, and all sorts of
Scout activities will fascinate the eye. On
Sunday a tremendous service will be held in
the Cricket Ground, on which Archgaiters
Wright will pronounce the blessing. Olive
Kelso King is the busy secretary who has
all these affairs in hand.
Another bit of Sydney’s old grandeur
was scrapped last week, when the pre-
cincts of Admiralty House, formerly the
G.-G.’s residence, suffered the indignity of an
auction sale. Right on the spot where Princes
have dined, dukes sipped their port and
countesses discounted the courses the , auc-
tioneer plied his hammer. The Girl in the
Flat Opposite went to the sale with some
idea of buying, for a minny golf-course, the
old Richmond River cedar dining-table with
its ten massy supports, which when it really
stretched itself was 20 feet long. However
she became too interested watching the people.
They stamped about in their hundreds, fling-
ing a look at the serene old grandfather clock
in the hall, as much as to say: “Well, see
this is what time does. Here we all are hob-
nobbing like the greatest of pals!” Others
strolled about the garden paths, sniffed
at the plants, gurgled over the view,
and finally produced a bite of lunch,
making a day of it! The copper pans
in the kitchen’, and such names on the tags
of the bedroom keys as “Sirius” and “Mac-
quarie,” caught the Girl’s fancy, and she
liked the old ladies who plumped on the
chairs in search of worn-out springs,
or peered at the goblets. She swears
that one dowager bit around the edges
of at least a dozen wineglasses catalogued
as crystal, and then, her self-imposed task
completed, withdrew "her shining top and
bottom molars (the best money could buy)
and placed them for a second’s reprieve on
the ledge of an old mahogany bookcase. A
short-sighted ancient mariner bore down on
the case. Saying “Bless my soul, a fine coral
specimen !” he was just stretching qut his hand
to pick up the supposed objet d’art when
the indignant owner snatched her grinders
up, zipped them on to her gums and flounced
off!
A lady in Mosman who bad a birthday
party yesterday (17th), and got this Letter’s
congratulations with the rest, can’t quits;
remember her christening; but there is ample
evidence that it took place in St. Mary’s
Cathedral 95 years ago. And the queer
thing is she wasn’t an R.C.; in those days
small things like creeds didn’t count for
much in Sydney. Which makes it easier
to understand why Governor Macquarie, a
Protestant, was one of the most enthusiastic
supporters of St. Mary’s building programme,
and laid the foundation stone. The baby
who was christened in St. Mary’s in the
reign of William IV. was born Baptist;
father had Sydney’s first plant-nursery where
now is Baptist-street, Redfern. In due time
the infant became Mrs. Baass. She still
enjoys good health, though she doesn’t trip
into the city without a companion as she
did until two or three years ago.
Ninety-five years in Sydney! How many
people there were in all this continent when
first she looked out upon it nobody knows,
because the first census wasn’t taken till she
was a grown-up girl, and then there were
only 189,000. In her young days St. James's
was the church of “the quality”; Melbourne
hadn’t even been named; the first immigrants
for South Australia were still on the water;
and the only inhabitants of Brisbane were
part of our birthstain, sent up to see whether
it was worth while trying to make a settle-
ment. What things those still-quick old eyes
have seen!
The posters designed to lure the traveller
to Australia shown at the Advertising Con-
vention in the Blaxland Galleries seem to
this Letter to fall short. They fail to stimu-
late the imagination with the idea that some-
where round that corner of the mountain
path adventure lurks, or that across that
tumble of blue water romance waits with
open arms. Even the tropical scenes are
too realistic. There’s a picture of Sydney
Harbor in bright unabated sunlight, its bays
curving briskly, its headlands sharply defined
against an almost unbearable blue of water.
And yet we have all seen the harbor when
that iotos-blue mist floats above its waters,
when Cremorne and Bradley’s seem stretch-
ing languorous arms for an ethereal blue
scarf, when the low crouching foreshores
look like so many rounded hills of sleep.
Those are the days which make us the city’s
lovers. And what lyric of color is there on
the road to the caves, in mist and dewy morn-
ing valleys, with a finger of sunlight piercing
the wraitli-like veil here and there to touch
the cheek of a ripening apple! Anyway, it’s
just a suggestion to the Travel League that
maybe a little mystery adds to enchantment.
There are a few poets in the world with
enough money to travel if you give them the
right bait.
The urbane Albert Collins has been cast
for Mr. Pepys in the Independent Players’
next production of “And So to Bed.” Pro-
bably no London actor has given a finer
interpretation of ' the great diarist than
Albert’s rehearsals promise. When Mr.
Collins minces across the stage in his
high-heeled Louis shoes, his spyglass and
the curled periwig of the Charles 11.
period, he will look a replica of the
man who never went to sea, but who
did giant’s work for the King’s Navee.
Nellie Stewart and the J.C.W. firm be-
tween them are providing the costumes,
and Nell is giving many a hint as to
deportment in this comedy of manners. The
Independents are feeling thrilled to the back
teeth over the fact that Alathea Siddons, the
good-looking girl who played the mother in
the production of “The Silver Cord,” has
been signed on (as a result of that perform-
ance) by -J. C. W., Ltd., for a 12 months’
engagement.
Betty Benjafield, of Killara. filled the
chapel of Shore Grammar with radiance one
night last week when she and John Daniell,
with benefit of the Reverend David Davies,
became man and wife. Chiffons and tulle
like a pale pink cloud enveloped the pretty
dark-haired bride, and her two ’maids were
in water-green chiffons and droopy felt hats.
A mist of pale pink blossom in the church
deepened the effect of the fragile frocks.
Dahlias, zinnias and gladioli from the Benja-
field garden enriched the foyer of the Lind-
field theatre for the subsequent reception,
where the bride’s mother, in powder-blue, and
the ’groom’s mother, in black laces, came in
for their share of the spotlight.
Here is a picture of Lady Baden-Powell
whom Girl Guides (the Scouts’ little sisters)
all the world over hail as th’eir chief. And
indeed the lady is as great a worker for the
pictorial and
gallant Scout
movement as
her husband,
its founder. In
other times
when you
found a lad
who was will-
ing to fight
the battle of
the weak, and
had ideals, and
was unsparing
of himself in
carrying them
through, you
said he was a
Don Quixote.
To - day you
say “Ten to
one he’s a Boy
Scout.” The
same remarks
apply to the
Guides, and the Chief Guide must feel a
glow of pride when she sees alert young Aus-
tralian officers of her world-wide army strid-
ing, erect and capable, about the hundred
and one affairs attendant on the monster
Scout-and-Guide demonstration in honor of
her and her Chief Scout.
Two of the lightest-hearted people in Syd-
ney are Padre W. S. Dorin, of the Australian
Inland Mission, and his little wife. These two
are on furlough in between four years’ stay
at Carnarvon (W.A.) and a sojourn,
as yet of undetermined length, in Clon-
curry (Q.). Carnarvon has 900 inhabitants,
made up of abos., Chinese, Japanese, Malays
and whites, and a persistent south-west wind ;
here the happy padre and Mrs. Dorin spent
what time they were not on the road attend-
ing to the reverend’s 300 miles or so of in-
cumbency. At Carnarvon they saw boats,
’planes and camels, but no trains. In Clon-
curry they will see trains and ’planes, and
perhaps camels, but no boats. Sleeping-
out has no terrors for Mrs. Dorin, who at
first used to camp in the car, but now
stretches like a true campaigner on the
ground with her head on a grass-green
pillow. Incidentally, she and her husband
sleep at some distance away from the camp
fire because any straying snake or scorpion
will always make for the blaze. The padre
became famous for his method of obtaining
and distributing books and papers through
the A.I.M. To an appeal for The Bulletin
he received copies of the pink lady from all
over Australia, Tasmania and Maoriland—
so many that for months the Mission was
able to hand out when asked the invariable
“Have you a Bully?” Last year his rever-
ence sent out 4000 papers, and his system -of
transport is so well organised that the cost
to the Mission was only £4.
A great wave of sympathy went out to
knight Mark Sheldon and his lady last week
when their youngest daughter, Marcella, died
after a six weeks’ illness. This extremely
likeable girl had just reached her 27tli birth-
day and was her mother’s great pal. She
was, apart from her parents’ money, quite
rich. Uncle Tom Dalton having left her
£30,000 or so. Old school friends in New
York (where her father was stationed as
Commissioner for Australia), as well as her
Rose Bay Convent associates, will sorrow
for her too-early death. Two sisters from
Lewisham and the best medical advice could
not fight the illness, which started with
pleurisy, and developed complications. The
Bellevue Hill home is going to be a lonely
place, for the two nnirried Sheldon girls,
Mrs. Marcus Rex and Mrs. Stephen Lan-
caster, live abroad —the one in the Malay
States, the other in London, where one of
the Sheldon boys is now studying.
The Sheldons have always been great sup-
porters of Lewisham, and in the chapel
are some handsome altar vessels given by
the Sheldon girls, the bases of which are
studded with the jewels left to them by their
aunt, Mrs. Tom Dalton.
This grave-eyed girl is Muriel Sievers, who
has just returned from three years’ study of
physical culture and massage in Sweden,
Germany, England and America. Perliapd
her most unique experience was at the Arved-
son Gymnastic
School in
Sweden, a
world - famed
place for medi-
cal massage.
Here students
speaking every
tongue are
gathered.
Muriel was
the only Aus-
tralian, an d
there was only
one girl from
Turkey; she
was studying
massage with
a view to tak-
ing it up pro-
fessionally in
her own land.
And that
seems to be
giving the
harem the go-by with a vengeance. In
Germany Miss Sievers found at the Bode
Laban amazing developments in the physi-
cal-culture arts, while in London she devoted
herself to the study o’f fencing and of danc-
ing under the inspiration of such teachers
as Espinosa, Phyllis Bedells and the Ginner
Mawer School. The English ballroom danc-
ing is perhaps the best style of any. Skat-
ing has not (as was feared) ousted it as
a recreation. The hesitation waltz, the
skating waltz (that is, the long, smooth
rhythm), the fox trot and a little tango are
the ingredients of the best programmes. The
moochi hasn’t yet caught on to any extent.
In America physical culture and sport are
all-absorbing subjects. In every high school
the movements of golf and tennis are in-
cluded in the gymnastic lesson. At the
Roosevelt High School in the Bronx, Muriel
Sievers saw one of the largest and most glit-
tersome swimming baths in her travels.
There are 7500 pupils, and they are com-
pelled to get their swimming togs at the
baths; when discarded, the togs are thor-
oughly fumigated and disinfected.
Eileen Shettle’s concert at Her Majesty’s
promises to prove one of Sydney’s bright
Sunday nights. The date is the 22nd and
the time 8.15. The cause is St. Vincent’s
Hospital. The J. C. Williamson firm is giving
the theatre and the artists their talent. One
of the attractions of the bill will be Gersh-
win’s “Rhapsody in Blue,” with Isidor Good-
man as the pianist in association with Eric
Mareo’s symphony orchestra.
The bridesmaid and the mitten are becom-
ing an inseparable combination. The two
train-bearers of Isobel Coburn wore these
in pink lace to tone with their soft pink
satin Empire frocks. The bride, who is the
second daughter of Mrs. H. S. Coburn, of
Carinthia, Springfield-avenue, gleamed like
a snowdrift in her ivory .satin and tulle.
Archer Whitford directed her progress to
the altar, where ’groom J. C. Trivett, of
Manly, and his cousin Padre R. P. Gee, of
Nowra, were waiting with the ring and
the book. Bride’s mother, in handsome bur-
gundy velvets, hostessed the congratulation
party at the Commodore.
How sensible is Fraser Coss, a young man
with a voice! Fraser and his friends dis-
covered the richness of its tone some years
ago, but he had already decided on law as
his profession, and although he didn’t neglect
the treasure in the good old voice-box,
Fraser went straight on with his law studies.
Now, having passed his exams., he is off to
Europe. He gives a farewell recital at the
Con. on Saturday, March 28.
Misha Burlakov, who appeared here with
the Pavlova company in “Don Quixote,
“Oriental Impressions” and “Amarilla, is,
with Louise Lightfoot, pupil of Ivan Ler-
giefif, of the Pavlova company, producing a
recital of Russian hallet on March -4 at
the Savoy. And although the performers in
the ballets will he .students of the Lightfoot-
Burlakov school, it should prove an inter-
esting experiment. The programme will open
with a spectacular peace pageant, including
a suite of 12 short national dances; the
second act will be an exposition of Russian
life in dances and folk-songs.
A breeze from Bananaland :
Sir John and Lady Goodwin were present at the
concert in the City Hall in aid of the Social Service
League. Mayor Watson and his lady received the
vice-regals. The Premier and his mother, Mrs. E.
B. Moore, Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs. G. A. Ferguson,
Mrs. Digby Denham, Mrs. Emily Bulcock and Ivy
Paine were amongst the throng.
Mrs. W. C. Ussher, of Weewondilla station, Long-
reach, arranged a tea at Atcherley in honor of her
daughter Nita, who is about to be married. Mrs.
Ussher wore black and biege and Nita was in blue.
Amongst the guests were the Glasgow lady, Mesdames
Eric Duncombe, Amby, W. Condy, Hudson Fysh,
Isaac Moore, P. A. Blundell, Ann Blundell, Eileen
Moore and Barbara Hart.
There have been many other shivoos for brides-
to-be. For Ena Browne, Mesdames Horace Williams
and Eric Hayne staged a bridge tea at Rowe’s ban-
queting hall. For Sylvia Bernays, of Toowoomba,
Dorothy Stewart hostessed a dance at her home in
Clifford-street. Muriel Hobson gave a luncheon for
Sylvia, Mrs. Harold Penfold a party at Fernside, and
Kathleen Connolly another at Duane.
Muriel King had a party at Ascot for Phyllis
Hempstead, who is engaged to E. Pennefeather. Red
jersey silk was worn by the hostess, and Phyllis
was in navy blue. For Elfrida Rhoades, who is
marrying Claude Barron, Francis Boddington had an
at-home at Windsor; the bride-elect wore pale
pink lace. At Atcherley there was a party in
honor of Miss J. Greenup, who is marrying Edgar
Fox, of Wondai. Miss M. Greenup was hostess
in floral georgette; the guest of honor was
in blue.
At the C. W. A. Conference at Toowoomba it
was reported that over 900 women and children had
been given a holiday during the year ; some at the
Mowbullan and Tambourine Mountain cottages ; others
at Redelift'e, Manly and Sandgate. All branches are
helping the Social Service League.
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Peterson, Hamilton, had a bridge
benefit for the Lady Goodwin and Mrs. A. E. Moore
sewing circles, in connection with the Social Service
League. Lady Goodwin was present, wearing mid-
night blue, and Mrs. A. E. Moore was in black satin
beaute. For the M.L. earthquake relief funds on
the same evening there was a bridge party in the
Anne Hathaway, organised by Mesdames W. J. Law-
son and F. W. Carter.
The annual garden party given at the close of
the Methodist conference in Brisbane was held at
Brynderwyn, the home of the R. J. Archibalds at
Upper Paddington. Mrs. Harry Reeve’s mandolin
and banjo clubs provided music.
Tattersall’s race meeting at Ascot brought out
many filmy frocks. The Premier was there with
his mother, who wore ivory ninon patterned in red
and black. Mrs. Cadell Garrick chose smoke grey
with saxe-blue pattern; Mrs. Whittingham was in
pale pink with a wide-leafed leghorn hat; Cecily
Cadell Garrick was also in pink; Iris Buchanan
wore blue and white, and Mrs. T. A. Spence navy
and white.
And a southerly from Tassy:—
Rear-Admiral Evans found the City Hall packed
with folk eager to hear his famous lecture “South
with Scott.” The lantern slides included many not
hitherto shown; unfortunately our City Hall is far
too big to be filled by one speaking voice. Madame
Geraldine Rivers gave two appropriate solos, and
the band of H.M.A.S. Canberra made attractive
music. The proceeds went to the Unemployed
Soldiers and Sailors’ fund and to the Y.M.C.A.
The opening and dedicating of the newly-completed
cloisters of St. David’s Cathedral was the occasion
for an impressive little ceremony, Bishop Snowdon
Hay officiating. As soon as more funds are available
a start will be made with the tower. Alan Walker
has presented a beautiful beaten chalice and patten,
his own work, as a memorial to his mother, Mrs.
Robert Walker.
Girl Guides farewelled Peggy Crane and Nan
Masterman at Mrs. Cullinane’s house, and presented
them with souvenirs.
The T.A.J.C. held its autumn meeting at Elwick
in weather which rather interfered with the social
side of the affair. Chairman Dr. Lindsay Miller
entertained friends at tea. The dressing was wintry,
on the whole.
“Baby Day” resulted in a good haul for the ener-
getic promoters. The White Daisy decorated half
the population in the streets, and stalls were
laden with good and useful produce. The Lieut.-
Gov.’s lady and Mayoress Soundy were among those
who ran stalls. The City Mission’s nursery and
women’s hostel were well patronised by shopping
mothers determined to leave the kiddies in safe
keeping.
Dr. Arthur Giblin and family have left the Speck.
He is taking a practice on the mainland. Mrs.
Giblin will be missed for, among other things, her
capital reading of Irish parts in plays.
Artist Tom Roberts and wife, from Vie., have
been visiting the Speck this summer. Much of their
time has been spent on the North-West Coast.


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
rhe Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
London
LANGHAM HOTEL
... Just a short step from
the heart of London’s
brilliant night-life.
In this square mile that
is the West End, crowds
all that is best of
Theatres, Music,
Shops and Society.
The Langham Hotel is
comfortable, quiet & central,
reasonable in charge and
courteously English.
Reservations:
The Langham Hotel,
Portland Place, London, W. 1.
Cable: “Langham, London”
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
third of Queensland’s
Entire Population.
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
®he Brisbane (Courier*
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 °fo
GREATER
than that of its Morning j
Contemporary.
# $
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
SThe Brisbane Courier*
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
SWAN” INK
FOR “SWAN” PENS AND
ALL PENS.
/VOIV-THE WORLD
; e
N
m
A 1»
HON
’022*1
oUJ
N‘
OW to the real business—seeing the
world! Canada, U.S.A., Europe.
Through bookings and plans made in
advance with the Union Steam Ship
Company give a novel sense of ease and
comfort to overseas travel.
Offices : Sydney and Melbourne.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
CANADIAN=AUSTRALASIAN & UNION LINES
BURNS PHILP TOURS
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
Smooth Water Voyage
which is a Holiday in Itself.
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,
5000 tons.
Return Fare from Sydney, £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy.
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
1A
%
\ ,tc
a
es
BURNS. PH ILP &C?,LTP
7 bridge: ST, SYDNEY. AUSTRALIA
WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE YORK HARROGATE EDINBURGH
and other beautiful Cathedral Cities. These are on the
LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY.
the track of the “Flying Scotsman.” Illustrated Booklets gladly supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 7-11 Bridge Street, Sydney, and all branches, or
L.N.E.R. West End Offices, 71 Regent Street and 59 Piccadilly, London W.l.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liabiilty
è
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
iMfl/
li
SCHUTE,
BELL & C Ltd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
A AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
ICeramic ... 18,500 tons, March 24
fDemosthenes 12,000 „ April 11
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ May 8
•First class only. fFirst and third class.
tCabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAVEL SERVICE
T)OOK through to Europe via
C.P.R. for travel comforts—
new thrills and
pleasures un-
excelled service at
all C.P.R. Hotels,
and on trains and
Atlantic Steam- «
ers. You’ll see
the wonders of Canada’s
Rockies, quaint old Quebec,
Mighty Niagara and the Great
Lakes. The finest, fastest and
joyous route to Europe. Write
for illustrated litera-
ature.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
w
e
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Ww Worlds '.Gfiaic'st-^ravdi'Systsh l
HAIR
NEED
G
tJ°
HERES
wnu -
w
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
• Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfcoUvris CMEXICAN)
tikUnui SiairL
THE GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
e


The Soap That's
Known and Sold
the World Around
IVHI3ia3N
For regular
daily toilet
use in the
home there
is nothing
better than
Ciiticura Soap
Containing the medicinal
and antiseptic properties of
Ciiticura, it soothes and
heals as well as cleanses
the skin.
gticura
PURITY
Soap la.
Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address:
R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S.W.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Ten Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nu[?] [?]
[?]
The call of the gee-gee was well answered
at Caulfield on Saturday, especially in the
cheaper parts of the course. The "weather
was beautiful, with a cool breeze and plenty
of sunshine, and masses of bright flowers
were framed by lawns like green velvet
carpets. Lord Somers arrived for lunch
with Captain and Miss Speir and Captain
and Mrs. R. S. A. McDonald. Mrs. N.
Robinson, wearing one of the new tweed
suits in tones of green and black with a
matching small hat, took her seat in the
committee ladies’ box, her husband having
been elected in place of Mr. Pearce, who
resigned. Chairman Ben Chaffey’s wife
came in a gown of magpie blend, and Mrs.
Merson Cooper’s attire of black satin and
ecru lace followed the latest lines in cape
ensembles. Mrs. J. Fell and her daughter,
Mrs. J. Crespin, Mrs. H. P. Willis, June
Baillieu, wearing a cocoa-colored suit and
a felt hat, and Marie de Bavay, who favored
a covering of nigger brown, were others in
the committee reserve.
Mayoress Luxton and Mrs. U. J. Nicholas
were in black. Mrs. T. V. Millea combined
in her dressing dark brown cloth and figured
chiffon velvet, and Mrs. W. Bates chose
black satin with a dash of ermine. Mrs.
H. S. K. Ward, the Percy Blackbourns and
Mrs. Stuart Ferguson were others who
strolled beneath the pines in the bird-cage.
Last week 50 girls who had just concluded
their schooldays at the Presbyterian Ladies’
College were drafted into the ranks of “old
girls” at an evening party held in the P.L.C.
clubrooms. The president, Mrs. Colin Mac-
donald, wearing cornflower-blue and carry-
ing a presentation posy, was hostess, and
Principal Gray and his wife were guests of
honor. Anne Fortune, the hon. sec. of the
club, and Mrs. A. L. Abbott, hon. sec. of
the ex-students’ association, helped to make
the gathering a success. A guessing competi-
tion and charades figured on the programme.
Among the young people whose schooldays
have closed were Jean Picken, Kathleen
Bishop and Marjorie Gilchrist, who have
won the right to continue their studies at
the Uni.
The P.L.C. Old Collegia tes’ Club
assembled on a later evening to greet Mrs.
I. 11. Moss, an ex-student, who told of her
recent travels in foreign parts.
Geelong Hospital had a red-letter day on
Thursday, when Premier Hogan opened the
new nurses’ home, a handsome building which
cost £130,000. G. B. Humble, president of the
hospital, welcomed Mr. and Mrs. Hogan; in
the throng were Mrs. Brownlee, of Footscray,
the first trainee of the institution to qualify
for a nurse’s certificate, and Misses Robert-
son and Hett, who were also among the
first batch of ministering angels trained
there. The Premier handed the presenta-
tion key to Mrs. Hogan, who unlocked the
front door. There are 66 bedrooms in the
new building—l 6 more than are required
for the present nursing staff.
The fauna of Macedon received an addition
last week in the shape of five green Javanese
pea-fowls. They came on the Nieuw Zeeland
to the order of Mr. F. Woods, who spent a lot
of money in getting them removed from then-
native jungle. The birdies are prized by
the Javanese owing to their habit, on the
approach of a dangerous beast of uttering
piercing cries. Possibly in Macedon they will
give warning of the approach of tax-collectors.
The Full Court occupied itself last week
over a case that has a good deal of interest
for the promoters of charity enterprises,
the point at issue being whether tickets for
a raffle may lawfully be sold outside the
place where the raffle is drawn. At a f§te
on behalf of the Mildura Hospital, tickets
for the raffle of a. motor-car were sold as
far afield as Bendigo, and a policeman bought
one. A magistrate said he couldn’t find
anything in the Statutes on which he could
base a conviction, but the Full Court
held that the “intention of the Legis-
lature” was to limit the sale of such tickets
to the “bazaar,” and fined the committee
20 shillings. Right through the proceedings
the affair was called a bazaar, a term that
has been so long unused that it is difficult
to appreciate the atmosphere of Oriental
seductiveness that once surrounded it.
After 60 years of usefulness the Melbourne
Sailors’ Home, for the first time in its career,
finds it necessary to appeal to the public for
financial aid. An SOS has been sent out
for £5OO. Owing to the slackness in ship-
ping some of the sailormen have got a bit
in arrears with their payments for board,
and the institution finds it needs funds to
tide it over till the clouds roll by.
Mushroom-time has come round again, and
the highways on Saturdays and Sundays are
cluttered up with cars parked against the
fences of likely pastures while all who were
aboard skirmish round with baskets and
cans. The mushrooms are of the nigger-
brown variety and have a rather strong
flavor, but that doesn’t seem to affect their
popularity.
The completion of the rebuilding of the
Caulfield Town Hall was the occasion of a
civic ball, held to raise funds for the blind.
Mayor Ritchie and the Mayoress, she in
bright blue chiffon, had the aid of their
daughter Elma, in velvet and riinon of forget-
me-not tint. The opening of the hall was
celebrated by an afternoon-tea party given
by Mrs. Ritchie, at which the Mayoresses
of neighboring suburbs and wives of many
aldermen and councillors were guests.
A dance organised by James Whelan and
James O’Neill for St. Vincent’s Hospital was
held in the Brenan Hall, decorated for the
occasion in blue and gold. A corner was
set apart for bridge. Amongst those who
helped to make the well-attended hop a sue-
cess were Mrs. J. Whelan and Mrs. T. J.
Ryan.
At St. John’s Kirk, Toorak, Dr. Law
slipped the knot between Ellen, second
daughter of John Bishop, of Toorak, and
John, fourth son of Mrs. Lewis Bell, of
Murrnong station, Albury. The bride’s satin
robe was overlaid with filmy lace and tulle,
and she had as attendants her sister Kathleen
and the bridegroom’s sister Mary, both in
mousseline frocks of tangee hue —a new tint
of orange. Caps bordered with velvet leaves
completed the picture. There were rejoic-
ings afterwards at No. 9.
When Margaret, daughter of the H. G.
Allens, of Toorak, was married at the
Collins-street kirk to Douglas Carnegie, her
ivory satin gown gleamed softly beneath
clouds of exquisite old Carrickmacross lace
that enveloped her from top to toe, and she
carried a muff of white tulle massed with
orange-buds. Phyllis Mein, the attendant
’maid, was attired in pale buttercup silk net,
with streamers of the same colored velvet
dangling from her leghorn hat. A small
trainbearer and a page were garbed in
matching tints. Congratulations were said
at the home of the bride’s parents.
A knot-tying due to be celebrated with but
little fuss to-day (18tli) at St. Patrick’s
Cathedral is that of Denise, daughter of
the Alfred Shaw Fitchetts, of Wilandra,
Terang, and Kenneth Morley Allan, elder son
of Mr. and Mrs. Charles le M. Allan, of
Hampton.
Ivory satin, Limerick lace and water-lilies
figured in the wedding finery of Agnes,
daughter of the F. A. Cumbrae Stewarts, of
Elsternwick, when she was linked to Barry,
son of J. T. Webster, of Gippsland, at St.
Mary’s, Caulfield. The bride was attended
by her sisters Marwin and Betty and Lesley
Webster, in frilled frocks of turquoise-blue
georgette, with hats of the same hue trimmed
with pink blossoms.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes was welcomed home
by the Victoria League Club one evening last
week. The Masson, Miller, Maudsley and
Murray ladies, Mrs. James Alston, Mrs.
Alex. Leeper, Mayoress Luxton and Mrs.
Alfred Deakin were there, and the club-
rooms were decked with tiger-lilies and
gladioli. Madame Orff Solscher sang to
accompaniments by Rieke Parker.
At the annual meeting of the Housewives’
Association the important subject of bread
was well to the fore. A home-made loaf and
some small bottles of yeast stood upon the
official table; and other samples of the home-
oven product were served with the four-
o’clock brew of 'tea. The housewives are
endeavoring to bring down the price of the
staff of life, and many are making their
own, the association distributing recipes for
yeast and bread-baking. In one district 80
women are their own bakers. It was recorded
in the annual report that 10001 b. of Tas-
manian black currants and 18,0001 b. of tea
had been disposed of. At the end of the
meeting Kingsley H'enderson made a plea for
support for the All for Australia League,
and F'rances Fraser gave a chatty account of
her recqnt travels.
At Yarrien, the home of Mrs. Harry Cres-
wick, on Saturday there was a fete in aid
of the Lady Nor’thcote Free Kindergarten,
of which Mrs. Creswick is president. Part
of the programme was an all-day tennis tour-
nament, and there was a bridge party at the
Bayles’s residence in the evening.
Just back after four years’ study of her
art in Berlin is pianist Rieke Parker, here
pic tured by
Brootho rn.
Her visit to
Germany was
in the nature
of a resump-
tion of studies
commenced as
a schoolgirl,
and interrupted
by the Great
War, which
n e c e s sitated
her hasty re-
turn to Aus-
tral i a. In
1914 she was a
stud ent of
Georg Gruen-
berg and of
Artur Schna-
bel, and to
these two,
who work in
c o n j unction,
she went again. All the time she was away
Miss Parker taught, and she attracted suffi-
cient pupils in Berlin to enable her to pay
for her own course there.
Members of the Alliance Frangaise met to
listen to a paper read by R. Chisholm, asso-
ciate Professor of French at the Uni., who
took Sacha Guitry, the French actor, and
Madame Guitry (Yvonne Printemps) as his
theme. The discourse was interspersed with
gramophone records of scenes from plays in
which the Guitrys have starred. The presi-
dent of the Alliance, Rene Vanderkelen, con-
veyed greetings from Mrs. Jimmie Dyer, who
had written from Paris; and the French
Consul, M. Forcioli, gave thanks to Mr.
Chisholm.
Lord Somers has promised to spend his
last week-end in Melbourne as State Gov-
ernor at the Somers Camp at East Bal-
narring.
Members of the Lyceum Club to the
number of 220 filled up the big reception-
room on the occasion of a billy-boiling to
welcome home Mrs. Herbert Brookes. Dr.
Gwynneth Buchanan, president of the club,
spoke the greeting, and handed the guest of
honor a bouquet of pink carnations and
other blooms. Mrs. Brookes, in returning
thanks, spoke of the clubs she had visited
in the United States.
Isabel Biddell, of the Uni. Con. teaching
staff, has returned after 12 months’ study
in Berlin. The contralto’s teacher abroad
was Lula Mysz-Gmeiner, who gave her pupil
a glowing testimonial when they parted com-
pany. Also returned after a course of Euro-
pean study is Gretchen Schieblich, who took
her violin to Berlin and Paris.
Walter Gude, of Ballarat, one of the lead-
ing teachers of the violin in this State, has
linked up with the staff of the Uni. Con.
Professor Bernard Ileinze was one of his
early pupils.
Dr. Jean McNamara has been awarded a
Rockefeller Foundation Scholarship, which
will enable her to pursue her studies in the
U.S.A* and Europe. She has had to post-
pone her departure owing to a local epidemic
of infantile paralysis, on which she is an
authority.
Dr. Margaret McLo'rinan and Mrs. J. Ross
Soden, professionally known as Dr. Mar-
garet Robertson, were passengers by the Nar-
kunda bound for Colombo, where they intend
to stay for a few weeks.
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Brookes and Wil-
liam McKie, the new city organist, were
entertained at Melba Hall. Prof. Bernard
Ileinze and medical-knight James Barrett
spoke words of welcome at the afternoon tea
party, and Mrs. Edward Stevens, the Barrett
lady and the Rev. and Mrs. W. McKie were
among the listeners.
Members of the English-Speaking Union
met for luncheon at the Victoria. Among
the guests were Randall Davies, recently
appointed buyer for the Felton Bequest,
British Trade Commissioner 11. L. Set-
chell and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Gipps and Alice Richardson. Mr. Gipps,
who has just returned after a three years’
sojourn in Britain, was formerly secretary
of the E.-S.U. Alice Richardson, another
worker for the union, has been away on a
holiday trip. Knight Arthur Robinson gave
greetings.
This is a Lafayette portrait of Norman
Balmer, organiser of the Cairns Am. Dram.
Soc., a very
live company
of players
which has
given 91 per-
formances in
the eight years
of its life. Mr.
Balmer is an
acting mem-
ber, and has
appeared in
many pieces
under the
direction of
the society’s
producer,
Harold Harvie.
This band of
mummers was
heard over the
ether for the
first time the
other day in
“Personally or
by Letter,” and 3AR has four more such
entertainments on its programme. Also Mr.
Balmer and Eric Donald have been engaged
to broadcast duologues.
The other day someone discovered that a
collection of paintings of bird, insect and
flower life of Australia, Papua and New
Guinea, the work of the late Mrs. Ellis
Rowan, reposes in the vaults of the Mel-
bourne Treasury. These pictures were pur-
chased by the Commonwealth Government
seven or eight years ago and stored till a
suitable place could be found in which to
exhibit them, but they seem to have been
forgotten.
An artist who followed the same lines as
Mrs. Rowan, Mrs. Black, passed out at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. Walsoe, South
Yarra, last week. Mrs. Black was the widow
of the late George Black, of Tarwin Meadows
station, South Gippsland. She was a daugh-
ter of the late Sidney Grandison Watson,
a pioneer of the Upper Murray, who owned
Walwa and Tintaldra stations.
Mrs. T. a’Beckett poured tea- at her East
St. Kilda residence when some friends were
gathered to say good-bye to the Spencer lady,
who sails for England in the Nestor. Those
interested in the Kindergarten Training
College were well represented.
John Brownlee continues to climb from
height to height in the operatic world. The
Geelong baritone’s latest triumph was scored
a few days ago in Paris, where he took the
part of Kurneval in “Tristan and Isolde.”
Next month he leaves for Buenos Ayres, to
fulfil a three months’ engagement in opera.
Mr. Stanley Knibbs, Commissioner of
Lands in the Solomons and Mrs. Knibbs
are spending a few days in Melbourne as
part of a furlough of some months. A visit
to Perth will be included in their holiday.
A number of Australian scribes have been
thinking hard ever since the cables announced
that a young Englishman had confounded
London critics by representing his own play
as having been written by a German, Herr
Heinrich Neusser, with himself as trans-
lator. The play, twice rejected before the
bright idea occurred to the author, has now
found a market and applause. Novelist Paul
Selver in 1926, in his novel “One. Two,
Three,” made the hero, Authonv Delmar,
write a play and pretend it was the work of
one Kazimur Niekas, of Polabia. In the
novel the hero’s friend arranged for the play
to be heralded by spicy paragraphs from
Polabia, and the London production was a
startling success. Again fiction has proved
herself but a pallid sister to truth. Paul
Selver, by the way, is probably better known
to Melbourne readers by his famous “School-
ing” than by the more satiric “One, Two,
Three.”
Of course it had to come. A bridegroom
of a week or so ago married his best girl
on Friday, kissed her farewell on Monday,
and taking- his pick, shovel and Matilda
waltzed off gold-digging. There’s a cheery
sound about gold-digging as a profession
these days. Anyway, one hopes the young
man will return at an early date and park
a whole truckload of nuggets outside the
bungalow for two.
A budget from Westralia:—
Her Ex. attended a number of farewells between
getting herself, son Simon and grandson David
packed and on board the Orontes. At the mayoral
at-home in the Town Hall there was a sheaf of
cream roses and gold dahlias for the guest of honor,
who brought with her Mrs. Wilfrid Campion. The
Mayoress wore a gown of cafe-au-lait and a lacy
embroidered hat. Daughter Joy, in green fripperies
and black millinery, brought Miss Lonergan, a
N.S.W. visitor. Irene Staneliffe, Nell Shortland
Jones and Mrs. Howard Birt, with Mrs. Greig as
accompanist, provided the musical programme.
The Children’s Hospital Auxiliary spoke its fare-
well at a five-o’clock gathering in the Town Hall
supper-room. Mrs. Shortland Jones handed the
Auxiliary’s first patroness a bridge box carved from
native woods containing cards stamped with Lady
Campion’s initials.
Mr. H. D. Holmes has passed out at 85. He was a
good Australian, a pillar of the Anglican church
and a fairy godfather to the small folk. He and his
late wife founded the Ministering Children’s League,
which does a lot of good work in a quiet way.
Daughter Phoebe Holmes inherits her father’s energy,
kindness and charity.
The Repertory production of Bernard Shaw’s
“Pygmalion” was one of the club’s most worthy
efforts. A well-cast pair, Mrs. Alan Stubbs and
Norman Wingrove, put a lot of thoughtful study
into their r6les of Liza, the flower-girl, and the
professor of phonetics whose trained ear could classify
over 100 towel sounds. Percy Cannot’s portrayal
of Doolittle, the Cockney dustman, was capital, and
Florence Besley, as the professor’s nice mother, had
a part that suited her admirably. Molly Ick pro-
duced the piece.
Mollie, daughter of the late H. W. Rockett, was
quietly married in St. Mary’s Cathedral to Francis
Vernon Fels, of Perth.
Mrs. Fred Hammond’s farewell for Captain and
Mrs. Barrett was an event of the week. Mr. Molloy’s
house in Havelock-street was decked with pink
carnations and roses. Bridge and poker tables were
spread in the reception-rooms, and long supper-
tables were arranged on the balcony. The hostess
wore blue flowered chiffons, and the guest of honor’s
pale pink net had a long fluted skirt and a little
coatee.
Shade under the plane-trees at Ascot is becoming more
flecked with sunbeams as the yellowing leaves flutter
off in the breeze. But there was no tang of
at the March meeting, and feminine punters who
arrived in summer transparencies had a more com-
fortable time than those in light tweeds and furs.
Mrs. George Ridgway’s millinery and laces were
particularly attractive; Mrs. Jack Durack, in navy
ergpe de Chine, strolled with her sister, Mrs. Victor
Harwood, in navy flecked with white ; June Morrell,
of Carnarvon, protected her jade and white georgettes
with a green satin coat; Mrs. Jack Stewart wore
navy millinery with her figured gown, and a shiny
brown straw offset Mrs. Arthur Gibson’s amber
medley. Mrs. Ambrose chose black georgettes and
laces; Mrs. Peck wore a white felt hat with her navy
ensemble; Mrs. Newman, of Pinjarra, garbed in
flowered romaine, came with Toodyay’s Mrs. Brock-
man in black and white.
The Irwin-street “shop” has ceased to function.
The noble structure which is the State’s new
University at Crawley is filled with architectural
inspirations, attractive furniture and such comforts
as numerous showers and an inexpensive cafeteria —
but there are not nearly enough lockers in the
women’s common-room, and St. George’s College has
closed one of its wings. It was built to accommo-
date 40 students with two rooms apiece, but a bare
20 have asked for admission.
And Adelaide’s portion :
A long period with nothing at either of our play-
houses made the performance of “Maritana” by the
Elder Conservatorium opera class particularly welcome,
and the Theatre Royal has been well attended every
night. The double cast, playing on alternate nights,
gave numerous students a chance to figure in the
limelight; the music was supplied by the Elder
Con. orchestra. The name-part was played by Madame
Delmar Hall before she came to this State, which
was one of the reasons why she and her talented
husband, Winsloe Hall, selected it. Phyllis Leitch
figured with success as ballet-mistress and solo-dancer.
The frocking, under Madame’s supervision, was
most effective. Chancellor George Murray, with
Miss Murray, and most of the Professors and their
wives were there in full force on the opening night,
together with the Mayor and Mayoress.
A bridge party, the proceeds to be devoted to
assist unemployed youth—a combined effort by the
Mayoress and the Legacy Club, whose committees
amalgamated—was held on Thursday night, the
biggest of its kind to date. The tables, 314 in
number, were arranged in the Town Hall, upstairs,
downstairs, on the balcony and in every little corner;
those unable to get in paid for their table and
played at home. The temperature rose to over 100,
and the many men who wore stiff shirts in a good
cause were visibly wilting. The amateur caterers
rose nobly to the occasion; there were six depots
for distributing suppers, and everyone was satisfied.
Lady Martin, while in Adelaide, was entertained
at the Lyceum Club by the president, Mrs. A. A.
Simpson, and committee, and also at the Adelaide
University refectory by the wives of the Professors.
Another successful bridge party was held at St.
Corantyn, East-terrace, the . residence of Mrs. Laving-
ton Bonython, in aid of the Keith Sheridan Free
Kindergarten. The committee supplied the special
afternoon tea. The large ballroom at St. Corantyn
is a great asset upon these occasions.
Mr. and Mrs. Rutter Jewell-Thomas left by the
Naldera for England. Their Lenten wedding was a
quiet affair. Mrs. W. Culross, mother of the
bride, gave an at-home for old friends to have an
opportunity of saying farewell to her daughter two
days before the boat left.


There is an “Oxford ”
Model for every grade
•. every style of player!
OXFORD
RACKETS
The lowest-priced “Oxford” . . . the
highest-priced " Oxford” . . . each
is a leader in its own class. The
distinctive finish . . . the new sci-
entific principles in design and con-
struction . . . the faithful work-
manship . . . these are features of
every “Oxford” Racket. Acclaimed
by the Tennis World in general as
the most distinctive Racket series
sold in Australia to-day.
For the Beginner . . .
MAINSTAY 17/9
COURTCRAFT .... 19/6
PERLA JUNIOR - - 4 27/6
HAYMARKET .... 30/-
For the Advanced
Player . . .
HAYMARKET SPECIAL - 40/-
HAYMARKET SELECTED 45/-
LIGHTNING 45/-
BRITANNIC 55/-
For the Competition &
Tournament Player . .
OCEANIC 65/-
TORNADIC 75/-
MASTERSTROKE - - - 77/6
ROYAL ENSIGN - - - 80/-
TENNIS
REPAIRS
The knowledge born of many years ’
experience . . . the employment
of only the most skilled work-
manship . . . the use of the very
highest quality materials . . .
these are factors that empower
Mick Simmons to offer a Tennis
Repair Service unrivalled in Syd-
ney to-day.
Famous “Winchester”
Rifles Reduced!
WINCHESTER.
SINGLE-SHOT
RIFLE,
1904 MODEL
Regular Price . . . 42/-
w
Mick Simmons’
Price
3 51-
(. Postage , N.8.W., 2/-.)
For .22-sliort, long, or long-
rifle rimfire cartridges; 21in.
heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action,
ladder rear-sight; length of
rifle overall, 371 in.; plain
front-sight; weight, about
41b.
WINCHESTER
SINGLE-SHOT
RIFLE,
1902 MODEL
Regular Price . . . 34/-
Mick Simmons’
Price
2716
{Postage, N.S.W., 1/9.)
For .22-calibre, rimfire;
18in. round steel barrel, bolt
action; V sight, scroll
trigger guard; rubber heel-
plate ; weight about 31b.
MICK
SIMMONS
LIMITED
720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home
Entertainment
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING TO
ELECTRIC TRANSFORMERS.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 816/26 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney. (Box 2133 L, G.P.0., Sydney.)
IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO
INJECTORS.
THE Proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
No. 6669/27 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney. (Box 2133 L, G.P.0., Sydney.)
Patents,
IMPROVEMENTS IN A SUNDAE CUP
FORMING MACHINE.
’TTTE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 11972/23 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney. (Box 2133 L, G.P.0., Sydney.)
“The Barrier Miner” (Broken Hill)
was the first to expose (February 27)
the awful lie that Theodore’s proposed
“fiduciary” inflation is on the same
lines as the Bank of England note issue.
Certainly the people who buy the 5000
copies of “The Barrier Miner” daily
are kept well informed. No wonder
the advertising space commands three
times the price of its local competitor.
BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralta
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1930
LIABILITIES.
Capital Account ..
& 8 d
.. 4,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund
Rural Credits Department-
Capital Account
Reserve Fund
Development Fund ..
1,009,848 4 1
1,384.906 6 9
104,863 10 5
80,163 10 5
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate .. 44,528,074 15 3
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 3,295,722 17 11
54,397,579 4 10
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits per Contra 526,837 14 0
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. .. 54,924,416 18 10
Note Issue Department .. .. 48,193,426 10 0
£103,117,843 8 10
ASS UTS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances
Australian Notes
Money at Short Call in London
Short Term Loans in Australia..
Investments —
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities (face value
£6,268,560)
Common wealth Government
Securities
(face value, £15,123,010) ..
Bills Iteceivable in London and
Remittances in Transit
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers and
other sums due to the Bank ..
Bank Premises
£ s d
1,303,481 12 4
5,800,878 10 0
3,180,229 11 0
6,289,774 5 4
6,266,836 5 3
15,120,753 4 2
1,116,782 14 1
14,626,437 11 11
596,405 10 9
54,397,579 4 10
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra .. .. .. 526,837 14 0
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. .. 54,924,416 18 10
Note Issue Department .. .. 48,193,426 10 0
£103,117,843 8 10
PROFIT AND LOSS.
£ s d
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund
„ National Debt Sinking
Fund
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund
„ Development Fund
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury..
„ Rural Credits Department
Capital Account ..
141,039 17 6
141,039 17 6
15,194 10 7
15,194 10 7
229,841 17 0
76,613 19 1
£018,925 4 9
£ s d
By Profits for Half-year ended
31st. December, 1930
Banking Business .. .. 283,079 15 0
Rural Credits Department... 30,389 13 2
Note Issue Department .. 300,455 16 7
£618,925 4 9
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
To Haliince
£ s <1
1,009,843 4 1
£1,009,848 4 1
By Balance ..
£ s d
By Transfer from Profit/ and Loss
Account of one-half of Net
Profits of Banking Business 141,039 17 6
£1,009,848 4 1
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Hank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Acting Secretary.
MARCUS BRYANT, Chief Accountant
For and on behalf of the Board,
« E. C ItIDDBE,
Governor.
Sydney, 14th February, 1931.
Note Issue Department
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation
Property Reserve Account
£ s. d.
48,153,426 1,0 0
40,000 0 6
£48,193,426 10 0
ASSETS. £ s d
Gold Coin and Bullion .. .. 15,385,716 10 9
Debentures and other Securities 8,215,724 811
Other Assets 24,591,985 10 4
£48,193,426 10 0
Certified correct
BERTRAND LATHAM
Secretary Note Issue Department.
MARCUS BRYANT, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. KIDDLE.
Governor,
Sydney, 14lh February, 1931.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia.
BALANCE SHEET at 31st DECEMBER, 1930.
LIABILITIES,
£
Reserve Fund 1,472,349
Depositors’
Balances ..£46,567,897 5 11
With Interest
Accrued .. 874,173 4 0
17,442,070
Other Liabilities 374,367
i d
4 4
9 11
8 6
£49,258,787
9
ASSETS
£ s d
Coin and Cash Balances .. 1,031,329 911
Australian Notes 84,406 10 0
Government Securities . .. 30,756,235 2 9
Securities of Municipalities and
other Public Authorities .. 15,195,893 18 6
Other Assets 2,221,922 1 7
£49,288,787 2 9
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To National Debt Sinking Fund.. 60,770 8 2
„ Savings Bank Reserve Fund .. 60,770 8 2
£121,540 16 4
By Profit for Half-year ended 31st
December, 1930 121,540 16 4
£121,540 16 4
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance
1,472,349 4 4
£1,472,349 4 4
By Balance 1,411,573 16 2
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one half of
the Net Profits .. .. 60,770 8 2
£1,472,349 4 4
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements famished by the several
offices of the iiank is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS. Acting- Secretary.
MARCUS BRYANT, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
E. 0. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 14th February. 1931.
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth as to the correctness of
the above accounts have been given.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Lion and the Lamb” (Columbia), at
Melbourne State, is melodrama, acted with
the tongue in the cheek. It is a Phillips
Oppenheim masterpiece, and all the familiar
props, are there—the deliriously-handso'me
hero who has just succeeded his father, the
Earl; the heroine, who doesn’t know it and
loves him for himself alone; the gang of
sinister international crooks which includes
the inhumanly-cultured professor and the
reptilian Russian adventuress 25 hands high ;
the world-famous diamond Star of Burma ;
and a dozen or so assorted situations, all
equally incredible. The cast takes the piece
in the right spirit, and plays it with great
verve. Walter Byron, the Earl, is an Eng-
lishman, but the equally-English heroine is
done in pure American.
# * ¥
“Charley’s Aunt,” which has been causing
howls of merriment at Sydney State, wears
better than any farce on earth. Here you
get a picture in which outrage is done to
all the verities. Charles Ruggles, as Lord
Fancourt Babberly, is nothing like the son
of a peer, nothing like an Englishman, and
nothing like an undergraduate. The girls arc
as American as he is. Top-hats are worn
by the older males, though it must be up-
wards of 40 years since anyone habitually
wore a topper in Oxford ; and much of the
dialogue belongs to the Victorian era
and is spoken in American: on the other
hand, Hugh Williams, as Charley, and Doris
Lloyd, as the real Donna Lucia, are com-
pletely modern and English. Yet in spite
of these and many more anomalies and ana-
chronisms the imperishable old farce goes
with a bang from start to finish. What a
winner it would be if produced as a period
talkie, with a Babberly who was English
and young, and a director who knew enough
about Oxford not to allow the names of
undergrads to be printed on their doors!
Minnie Love staged a highly successful
come-back to Sydney in the first part of the
State_ sho\y, in a series of character imper-
sonations.
* * *
“The Big House,” now at Sydney Regent,
was commended in this column for its gory
realism months ago when the Fox Movietone
people pre-showed it at their theatre. It is
the starkest gaol story ever told. Chester
Morris, forger, and Wallace Beery, cracks-
man and desperado, are chiefly responsible
for a riot in which 3000 convicts participate,
and which doesn’t end till machine-guns and
tanks are used by the authorities. The whole
thing is done with ghastly realism.
“The Romantic Vagabond,” another Fox
picture which Sydney saw for the first time at
the Regent, has a very different appeal. An
American train pulls up. The observation
platform overlooks a wide landscape dotted
with the palaces of millionaires. One belongs
to Harvey Clark. In size it equals Versailles
and in vulgarity the Sydney G.P.O. Regi-
nald Denny, who is on the platform and at
a loose end, overhears that Clark’s wife
(Lucille Ward) has a mania for helping
tramps, so lie makes up as one and gets a
job as chauffeur. The story, which is Vic-
torianese of a slo'ppy character, now starts.
Denny becomes the adored of the fair Miriam
Seegar, who is Lucille’s daughter, and he is
revealed in due course as her equal, being
an aristocrat who served during the war as
a captain in the Coldstream Guards.
The delicate gradations by which the ex-
tramp acquires the esteem of the inhabitants
of the monstrous edifice in which he is em-
ployed are cleverly shown. The owner is
amongst the first to succumb. The diehard
is Charles Coleman, as the butler. Coleman
might have shone in the part if left to him-
self, but U.S.A. box-office exigencies forced
him to present a low-comedy butler, which
is a contradiction in terms, like a slapstick
Grand Llama. Subject to gaffes of this kind,
and to the outworn theme, the picture is a
good one. It is an adaptation from E. J.
Rath’s novel, “The Dark Chapter.”
.
“Within the Law” is the new long-run
attraction at Sydney Plaza. It ought to
be a success; it contains the ingredients of
every successful bellowdrama that was ever
written, and the cast is brilliant. Joan
Crawford is Mary Turner, the innocent shop-
girl who is rail-roaded to gaol by a ruth-
less capitalist operating thro'ugh an inequit-
able legal system, and emerges bent on re-
venge. Pier work in the early stages of the
picture is impressive—she is supremely natu-
ral in the court and gaol scenes—but when
the story becomes artificial, as it soon does,
she follows suit.
It is believable that she should join a
gang of criminals in pursuit of her object,
but a development which is entirely incred-
ible is that the gang should try to steal the
Mona Lisa—a work of art which is almost
as unsaleable as the Vatican. The moron
stupidity of Joe Garson and his friends is
matched, if it is not exceeded, by that of the
police. After Mary marries Bob,. only son
of her persecutor Gilder, and the attempt is
made to steal Gilder’s Mona Lisa (it is
explained that the one in the Louvre is
bogus), the police start tliird-degreeing all
and sundry. In contravention of stage tra-
dition, the audience is asked to sympathise
with crime and deride the forces of law
and order. John Miljan, as Inspector Burke,
is baffled at every turn in his attempts to
discover who committed the murder at the
Gilder mansion. Pie instals a dictaphone in
Garson’s cell, but Mary spots it and stops
him talking. A female member of the gang
calls, and bluffs him into treating her as a
lady o’f importance. He tries to trap Mary,
but she hoists a blind and shows him the
policeman who is waiting to take down her
incriminating words. Finally Joe —an excep-
tionally honorable and chivalrous black-
mailer, burglar and assassin—insists on con-
fessing his guilt, and every possessor of a
human heart is relieved to know that no-
thing unpleasant is going to happen to him.
and that Mary and young Bob love each
other.
Bob would have been a deplorable ass in
real life; Kent Douglass makes a manly and
likeable lad of him. The actor who plays
the ’tec-villain Cassidy also deserves praise'
but the programme doesn’t mention him. ’


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Sorrell and Son, by Warwick Deeping-, 1/10; Three Rooms, by Warwick Deeping, 1/10; Kitty,
by Warwick Deeping, 1/10; Lilian, by Arnold Bennett, 1/10; Flood-tide, by Olive Wadsley,
1/10; First Love, by Olive Wadsley, 1/10; The Elusive Four, by William Le Queux, 1/10;
Bat-Wing, by Sax Rohmer, 1/10; The Game of Liberty, by E. Phillips Oppenheim, 1/10;
The Devil’s Laughter, by L. H. Brenning, 1/10; The Black Knight, by Ethel M. Dell, 1/10;
A Man Under Authority, by Ethel M. Dell, 1/10; The Knot, by Joan Sutherland, 1/10 ; Pimpernel
and Rosemary, by Baroness Orczy, 1/10; The Jade-Green Garter, by Douglas Newton, 1/10;
Mr. Wu, by Louise Jordan Miln, 1/10 ; ; The Exploits of Arsene Lupin, by Maurice Leblanc, 1/10;
The Adventures of Jimmie Dale, by Frank L. Packard, 1/10; Castles in Spain, by Ruby M.
Ayres, 1/10 ; Mr. Laxwoithy’s Adventures, by E. Phillips Oppenheim, 1/10 ; Buy My Silence,
by Herman Landon, 1/10 ; The Circle of the Stars, by Joan Sutherland, 1/10 ; The Crimson
Clown, by Johnston MeCulley, 1/10 ; Prairie Fires, by Annie S. Swan, 1/10 ; The Broad Highway,
by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; The Amateur Gentleman, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; The Money Moon, by
Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; Chronicles of the Imp, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; Beltane the Smith, by
Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; The Honorable Mr. Tawnish, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; The Geste of Duke
Jocelyn, by Jeffery Farnol,' 3/- ; The Definite Object, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/- ; Our Admirable
Betty,, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; Black Bartlemy’s Treasure, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; Martin
Conisby’s Vengeance, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; Peregrine’s Progress, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-;
PROSPECTING FOR GOLD
from the dish to the hydraulic plant
BY lON IDRIESS.
Oldtimers and newchum prospectors alike will find in this book just
the information they require. . Price, 5/6 posted.
Sir John Dering, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; The Loring Mystery, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; The High
Adventure, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; The Quest of Youth, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; Gyfford of
Weare, by Jeffery Farnol, 3/-; The Ghoul, by Frank King, 3/-; Susan Goes East, by Rathbone,
4/8 ; Cold Steel, by Sheil, 4/8 ; Yellow Peril, by Sheil, 4/8 ; The Father, by Katherine H. Brown,
4/8; Miss Pretty in the Wood, by Dolf Wyllarde, 4/8 ; Shepherd of Israel, by Leonora Isles,
4/8; Giant Killer, by Davis, 4/8; Who Shall Hang, by Marcus Magill, 4/8; The Sjambok, by
Jane England, 4/8; Tell England, by Ernest Raymond, 4/8; Adventures of John Johns, by
Carrel, 3/9; Judith Silver, by Hector Bolitho, 2/6; The Keys of England, by Victor Cook,
4/8; Pursuit of the Houseboat, by Bangs, 5/-; Days of Probation, by Gerard, 4/8 ; Dancing-
Boy, by Gerard, 4/8 ; Harbor of Desire, by Gerard, 4/8 ; The Dawn, by Joan Sutherland,
4/8 ; The Shadow of the Palm, by Gerard, 4/8 ; Spanish Vendetta, by Gerard, 4/8; The Lsland
of Captain Sparrow, by Fowler Wright, 4/8; Cups, Wands and Swords, by Helen Simpson, 3/-;
The Marriage of Meldrum Strange/by Talbot Mundy, 4/8; Queen Dick, by Tressider Shepherd,
4/8 ; The Cabin at the Trail’s End, by Sheba Hargreaves, 4/8 ; Splendour, by Ben Ames Williams,
4/8; Jim Trent, by Kauffman, 4/8 ; My Lord Greystark, by Ellis Middleton, 4/8; The One and
the Other, by Richard Curie, 4/8 ; The Love of the Foolish Angel, by Helen Branelerk, 4/8;
Clash, by Ellen Wilkinson, 4/8; Mr. Podd, by Freeman Tilden, 4/8.
SPECIAL.
Practical Birth Control (Hornibrook), 5/-; Safe Marriage (Ettie Rout), 5/5; Married Love
(Stopes), 3/5; Wise Parenthood (Stopes), 4/4; Enduring Passion (Stopes), 8/1; Radiant
Motherhood (Stopes), 8/1; Sex and the Young (Stopes), 4/8; Sex and Disease (Stopes), 8/1;
Contraception (Dr. Marie Stopes), 22/7; Parenthood —-a Manual of Birth Control (Fielding), 3/4;
The Sex Factor in Marriage (Helena Wright), 5/6.
New Technical Books.
Mechanical World Year Book, 1931, 2/10 ; Mechanical World Electrical Pocket Book, 1931, 2/9 ;
Fowler’s Mechanics and Machinists’ Pocket Book, 1931, 3/6; Fowler’s Mechanical Engineers’
Pocket Book, 1931, 5/-; Fowler’s Electrical Engineers’ Pocket Book, 1931, 5/-.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
WRITE FOR LISTS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Lighting Nocturnes
e
w
John Banks &> Son PsB?
324-3 3 0 PITT ST. SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A SYDNEY ROMAUNT.
Tt Hmo
t An agfed man bouffe >
And bv his Tide-somewhat Tlnof
His daughter sat She wasno Hfit
But forty-five & or rather over * Her father
with a mkn°ner r miTd
Turned to us as we sat in clover, and intro-
fivced “My younses, child.”
We loved a dainty page entrancing,
With jocund youth in every line,
Who generally comes on dancing
In opera or pantomime.
She entered now with laugh so airy. We
asked the ancient what he thought her.
His placid features didn’t vary. “That is,”
quoth he, “my eldest daughter.”
IRKS
looo.
-p, p, r ,v, c „
Dear Bulletin, The following yarn
comes from an ancient ‘ whaler : Old
B , one of the biggest squatters on the
Murray, never refuses work or tucker to
any man who ' asb s therefor. When a
waggie arrives and demands work or grub,
B. hands him a pannikin. Go and bail
. |, le liver tiU mealtime. Most of the
travellers try the work for a tim(> ; then they
U iln"F ;-n d “ft e traC fi ks ; ih i° Se Wh °
f l v Aa a J r i 1 J I ..WpI tl J ne l t IV ?°°. d ’ , s 9 aare
feed, and are ordered back to their irrigation
HER DAY OUT.
(Bridget dies and arrives at the gate of Paradise. St. Peter
appears.)
BRIDGET: “Is this Heaven?”
ST. PETER: “It is. Come in.”
BRIDGET: “Oi will, afther ye tell me, plaze, how many nights
out yez give every wake?” [19/10/’89.]
work, which is fearfully monotonous and
tiring. Few spend more than half a day at
the task. Those who peg away are given
a decent job and a fair screw'. “How. are
you getting on?” said B. one day to an
Irishman who was wiring in. “Well, be the
powers, Oi’ll soon have the strame so shallah
that the cod’ll shurely git sunburnt on the
back.” A Yankee asked for work one day.
“What can you do?” “Oh, most any kind
of chores, I guess.” “Well, turn that grind-
stone till teatime.” The Yank did so.
Next morning he asked, “What will I do
to-day, boss?” “Turn the grindstone.” Yank
rigged up a treadle and- had a good old
read as he worked with one foot, and then
the other. Next morning he asked, “What
will I do to-day, boss?” “Turn the grind-
stone.” The man from America took a
stretcher into the yard, rigged up a sort of hood
over the head of it, placed it near the grind-
stone, fixed the treadle another way, laid
himself down on the home-made stretcher
with his feet over the end of it working
the treadle, and read “Progress and Poverty”
all day. On the following morning he
asked the old man, “What will I do to-day?”
“Take a few days’ tucker and set off to
find a bigger fool than me.” “Tha-anks, I
guess I’ll take the grub. But look here,
boss, I can’t find the man. . S’lorig.”
Oyster Johnnie.
Any enterprising individual who wants to
get up a profitable industry and to fill a long-
felt want might probably organise a com-
pany for facilitating the escape of bank
officials, building-society directors, bogus land
syndicators, and assorted financiers in
general. The association could be officially
known as the Bankers Emigration Company,
Limited, with a capital of, say, £200,000, in
20,000 shares of £lO each. Its business
would be to facilitate the retreat of gentle-
men in difficulties for a reasonable cash con-
sideration paid strictly in advance. It would,
in the first place, pay a certain annual con-
tribution to a healthy and pleasantly located
South American Republic, in return for
which that State would abrogate its extra-
dition treaties, and thus furnish a con-
venient refuge for all clients. Any embezzler
who desired to light out for a safer land
would send to the nearest branch office and
get its table of rates —furnished in strict
confidence. The prices, of course, would
vary. The man who hadn’t got much
plunder might be secretly painted as a nigger
and shipped per coal vessel from Newcastle,
or he could be got up as a Chinaman and
started off by the regular American mail-
steamer to San Francisco. On the other
hand the rich shortage man would be
removed by special steam-yaclit manned by
the company’s employees, and furnished
with a secret place of concealment down
among the water tanks, so as to defy investi-
gation if the 'vessel were overhauled on the,
high seas. The company’s own officer would
call round in the dead of night with the
appropriate disguises, and the escapee would
be put into the company’s special fast
vehicle, and driven like greased lightning to
the yachtj. which would immediately get
under way. The police and detectives
would be tipped by the company in order to
prevent interruption. If, by any chance, a
client were arrested before getting away,
he would be duly bailed out by the
manager or liis agents, the forfeited bonds
being included in the bill. Underneath the
office in each city would be a number of
secret apartments and subterranean passages
that would defy all ordinary search, and
any client who was
surprised by the
auditors could
sprint for this
place and -lie low
there till his escape
was arranged for.
Clients who arriv-
ed without enough
money to pay the
fees would be re-
mo'rselessly thrown
out by the back
door to' take their
chance. When an
important' banker
had to be removed
from the vaults
and taken on board
ship, and the police-
man in the street
refused to be squar-
ed, or the deposi-
tors were waiting
outside with guns,
the company’s own
sloggers would go
out and cripple
them, or else a
house would be set
on fire in the vicin-
ity to draw off the
attention of the
public, or there
would be an alarm
of murder round
the corner, or a cab
would bolt, with
the co in pany’s
own beautiful
female in it shriek-
ing for help. In
order to preserve
secrecy as much as
possible, the com-
pany would put up
its signboard Over
an empty office
somewhere, and
conduct its real
operations in a
warehouse labelled,
“British and
Foreign Bible Society,” at the other end of
the city. In extreme cases the doctor attached
to the office would certify to the cus-
tomer’s death, and he would be ostensibly
buried in the public cemetery, and a tomb-
stone put up to head off the detectives. No
assassins or other vulgar criminals taken in
on any account. [2/l/’92.]
From a Melbourne paper:—
A good home, small remuneration, offered to a
musical, business-like young lady.
If we were not afraid of offending her, we
would draw the attention of the. young lady
living next door to us to this advertisement.
We never in our lives before saw anyone
who combined music and labor in such a
fascinating fashion. When she is making
breakfast she puts the eggs on the fire and
the toast in front of it, then skips lightly
into the front parlor and tries a fall with
the accordeon. When she returns to the
kitchen the toast is a cinder and the eggs
cricket balls. But the spirit has been
soothed, and she doesn’t complain. The other
members of the family relieve her of that
trouble. The same performance occurs at
every mealtime, and when she is ironing
the family'linen and has got the irons nice
and hot, 1 she takes one and moves it up and
down over the front of a new white shirt
once or twice, then drops it suddenly and
scurries off to tackle the accordeon once
more. When she comes back there is a hole
burnt in the front of the shirt large enough
for a dog to jump through. This is evidently
the kind of young lady the people who put
in that advertisement are yearning for. We
believe, too, that her family would part witn
her without exhibiting much unseemly
emotion.


Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
447 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3, 6,12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5/+ PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
v
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
■
iMBMs
■
■i
I
■Bn
a
H
m
4
H
■■l
lilli
■
■Hi
m
rj u{
■
lllllif
m
i§
gH
I ' n- :
When children are fretful
and out of sorts the reason generally is not
far to seek. Usually it is because their little
systems need some assistance to ensure the
punctual removal of the body’s waste. Child-
ren welcome Eno’s “Fruit. Salt” once they
have learned what a pleasant sparkling drink
it is. Just a dash in a glass of water will help
to keep their systems free from poisonous
waste gently, naturally and thoroughly.
For generations, the morning glass of Eno has
been a golden rule of family health among thou-
sands of sensible people all over the world.
In two sizes at chemists and stores •
n
FRUIT SALT
u
THE WORDS ENO AND "FRUIT SALT” ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS
' THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE Sc CO. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Old George.
WALTER E. WYNNE
TELLS A C APITAL YARN OF HOW AN OLD
CARPENTER GOT EVEN WITH THE BOSS.
WHEN you get out of the train at
Quartzite, if you do not specifically
state to your taxi-driver in front of
the station that you desire to go to your
hotel immediately, he’ll drive you to the
Croesus goldmine. It is the Mecca of tour-
ists who get south of the equator. If you
ever visit us I’ll show you a treatment plant
so up to date that it is all but futuristic.
You’ll see the tallest smoke stack in the
Commonwealth, and
But hold on. It is a weakness of mine to
grow garrulous when the Croesus crops up.
I tend to speak as though I happened to be
the owner, or some equally important per-
sonage. I’m not. I’m only the assistant
superintendent. The only notable person on
the Croesus is old George, the carpenter.
If you forget to give your taxi-driver
strict instructions re your hotel, the first
man to be pointed out to you on the Croesus
will be old George, tie is shaped like an
interrogation mark, he is so old ; and as he
wanders about the lease he is followed by a
vacuous-looking apprentice carrying oid
George’s kit of tools. Old George himself
carries nothing but a pipe, shaped like
another interrogation mark, projecting from
a spinifex-like clump of hair at his mouth.
Though known, to be lit on only one occa-
sion, the pipe is his inseparable companion.
He is very old, but gets through more
work between whistle and whistle than most
of. us. If one can presume to find fault
with the labors of such a veritable Methu-
selah, it is in the direction of his terrible
thoroughness.
He has always been with the Croesus,
having apparently been discovered on the
spot by the prospectors when they located
the gold. For some years past he has been
on odd repair jobs. When first I came to
know and love him he was building the
wooden frames into which the concrete was
poured to make foundations for the plant.
The engineers discovered that to remove
those temporary wooden structures required
a bigger gang, working longer, than had
mixed the concrete and built the founda-
tions. Besides, the foundations were gener-
ally seriously damaged in the process.
So old George’s thoroughness was deflected
into less embarrassing channels.
After he had been constructing scaffolding
for a while it dawned on the authorities that
it would be easier to take the building down
from inside George’s scaffolding than to dis-
mantle the spidery framework.
Even on odd repair jobs his meticulousness
was apt to be troublesome. Often some
minor patch had to be applied in the plant
that could have been done by the plant men
in a quarter-hour. The unions insisting,
however, that all repairs be done by trades-
men, old George was set on the job. On
occasion, after an hour has been consumed
in driving two nails or extracting an old
bolt, I have become pardonably irritated
and have approached to see why that section
of the plant was hung up so long.
The reason would be old George. Sur-
rounded by plumb-bobs and spirit-levels and
squares and a measuring-tape and a two foot-
rule, and a hammer and braces and bits, and
saws and chisels of every description, and
bags of bolts and boxes of nails, he has
given me a look of such gentle reproach at
my intrusion that I havo not dared to open
my mouth except in apology.
For long it continued so. We who under-
stood and appreciated him were content to
let him root around scraphcaps looking for
fragments of timber for his patchwork, hav-
ing the consolation that whatever he patched
was good for all time.
There came a day when depression and
financial stringency soughed about the lease.
It was discovered that the Croesus was grow-
ing too impoverished to support mismanage-
ment as a goldmine worthy of the name
should. A new chief landed in our midst.
He was what they call a potential man—
like a fulminate of mercury detonator. At
rest, there was nothing overpowering about
him. Touched on the right spot, he was
explosive.
His mission was reorganisation. His re-
ligion, efficiency. He had not been over us
three months before we were all tuned up
to the mark. By the time I had learned to
run at his approach, and the superintendent
to walk quickly, I commenced to wonder
what would happen when the new chief
made the acquaintance of old George.
It happened eventually. A section of the
mill had been stopped for about an hour one
day to allow old George to make a minor
repair. Just as I was considering going over
mildly to remonstrate with him, the chief’s
massive car jarred to a halt outside the
office. The dynamic man jumped out and
banged the door so bard that the chassis
crashed down on its side springs.
H'e entered like one demented and glared
at me butcherishly.
_ “What in Hell is the meaning of that ante-
diluvian old fool being on this job? Fire
him! He’s over there cluttering up the mill
with all the instruments known to astronomy
—supposed to be doing a job that I could
finish with my bare hands in ten minutes!
Fire him!”
He went out precipitately, tugged vainly
at the nearside door of his car, got in the
other side, and roared off with a ripping of
back wheels on the gravel.
The violence of his outburst had quenched
some of my horror at the blasphemous sug-
gestion of separating old George from the
Croesus. Still, the prospect of giving him
notice was abhorrent. Not so much out of
consideration for the feelings of tourists as
the realisation that when old George went
off the job and away from the mine, he
would die inside a week.
Sacking him was painful. I should have
fired him outright, but risked my own pres-
tige by giving him a fortnight’s notice.
“It’s not altogether my doing, George,”
I assured him at the time.
lie removed his pipe and gazed peacefully
around the mine.
‘‘l know,” he said through the spinifex.
• • IJ ’ c^a P done it. He reckons I’m
lnolhcient. You say I’ve got another fort-
night? Well, 111 be able to see ’em wreck-
ing the east half of the plant next week for
the new mill to go up I done a lot o’
work over at the cast plant the last thirtv
year.”
As ho ambled away in his interrogation-
mark attitude, I wondered whether he was
beginning to lose his grip. He had made no
complaint about his dismissal—just expressed
a certain satisfaction that he would be
present to see the wrecking of the aged east
plant, where he had done so much of his
patch work.
It seemed queer that he should find con-
tentment m severing his connection with us
m such a manner—by seeing liis own handi-
work pulled down in clouds of dust.
In the general deluge of improvements and
reconstruction consequent on the arrival of
the new chief, I had not given much thought
to the wrecking of the rickety east plant
building where a new mill was to be con-
structed. The chief’s attitude had been
so casual. ‘We’ll just run a wire rope
round the whole damn concern and pull the
place down with a winch. The boys can
take the bits away and clean her up in their
spare time,” he had said offhandedly, with
an airy wave of his arm, and banged the
door of Ins car in a sort of corroboration.
I commenced to think. It sounded simple.
Ibe new machinery was expected at our
siding at the end of the next week. On the
Monday the old east plant was to be pulled
aown like a house of cards. And old George
was pining to see it done. I commenced to
wonder Had there been a glimmer of a smile
in his faded old eyes when he had expressed
his satisfaction?
Certainly the appearance of the old east
plant building was sufficient to inspire
hilarity. It was the oldest part of the mine
and was studded with bolt-heads and iron
straps and splints and splicings applied by
old George during a third of a centurv.
Mining engineering commissions inspecting
the Croesus always expressed profound belief
that any building could look like the east
plant and survive the spring zephyrs.
Monday morning arrived, and with it the
foundry wrecking gang. They made a
splendid collection of men, with individual
and collective reputations to maintain. Each
man was imbued with a conscientious desire
to spoil. If lie had the choice of spitting
on the ground at his feet and a freshly-
painted wall twenty feet away, sheer in-
stinct forced him to have a fly at the virgin
decoration.
There was a dozen of them hanging about
m front of the office for an hour after the
7.30 whistle, as though waiting for a leader.
They were hired on contract for the day, and
had apparently been given to understand that
there was no need for them to sweat them-
selves to complete their job in eight hours.
From the disparaging way they eyed the
surrounding buildings it was evident tha*
they could have razed the entire mine in half
that time.
With their arrival the smooth working oi
the Croesus was to some extent modified. An
atmosphere of dust and excitement brooded
over the lease.
It may have been coincidence that there
were three separate and distinct breakdowns
in the plant during the hour the gang lounged
about; or that two company motor-trucks
passing near them picked up half a packet
of roofing nails in their eight tyres and
were laid up for the day.
Shortly the leader arrived in appropriate
manner. He drove the biggest steam tractor
that could ever have been built. The cur-
rent year’s, with sixty-four improvements on
last year’s model, it was complete with
ploughshares behind and a rearing jib-crane
in front.
I had always discredited the rumors that
the Leviathan cost tlie Foundry £l5O per
year for road licenses. When it invaded the
Croesus property I marvelled that any col-
lection of civic fathers could be soft enough
to let it off that lightly. For the plough
behind dropped and dug six parallel fur-
rows a foot deep in the road before the
tractor paused and coughed. Its ploughs had
become entangled with the metals of our
light-gauge railway.
The driyer descended from his footplate
to the ground far below, and while readjust-
ing his plough surveyed the furrows and
tangled rails with a gratified look.
Once more under way, the crane in
front brought down two systems of power
cables and a telephone line, and snapped
a guy-wire on a smoke-stack. One of the
lumbering monster’s hind wheels then crushed
a compressed-air main two feet below the
level of the ground, disorganising under-
ground work for the day.
The chief arrived in his car at the moment
the tractor pulled up ready for the wrecking
job. Spying old George in y the * distance
hard at work nailing up a sheet of iron, he
jumped out bent on murder. Then lie
noticed the roadway that looked like an
experimental farm plot; after which he
blinked at the dust and pebbles spouting up
from the burst air-main, and the festoons
of electric wires, and the leaning smoke-
stack, and the six breakdown repair-teams
scattered about trying to make the mine
appear as it was before the advent of the
steam tractor.
He forgot liis intentions against old
George, and came across to me. There was
awe in his voice when he spoke.
“Have they finished already?”
“Ha, ha,” I answered hollowly. “Thev’re
just about to start.”
He swayed slightly; then looked towards
the old east plant, where it still managed
to remain upright, for confirmation of mv
statement. J
(Continued on next page.)


Backach /
—that’s KIDNEY TROUBLE
SO IS YOUR
RHEUMATISM
WHY THIS REMEDY
MUST BENEFIT YOU
Rheumatism and Backache are the most
serious of all health troubles. Starting with
twitching of the muscles, stiffness in the
joints, pains in the back, the trouble gradually
goes on until many are badly crippled and
cannot go about their daily work. Then,
too, the excess of poisonous acids in the
blood has a serious weakening effect on the
heart.
If you are tortured by the daily misery of
rheumatic pains, chronic pain at night-time
when trying to rest, pain when going about
your work or pleasure, if you find limbs and
joints swollen, if your blood is being poisoned
with excess of uric acid, here is a doctor-
recommended remedy that one-time sufferers
say is “ wonderful ” in the way it quickly
ends chronic pain. De Witt s Kidney and
Bladder Pills are a sure, safe and certain
remedy for all rheumatic conditions or any
body or joint pains arising from Kidney
Trouble. A short course of “De Witt’s ”
will quickly rid you of your pain and bring
you back youthful vigour and vitality, and,
remember, you purchase your supply on
satisfaction or money "back conditions. Every
chemist stocks De Witt’s Kidney and Blad-
der Pills at 3/6. Get your supply to-day.
It will be the best investment you will ever
make. The young and the oldest can take
De Witt’s Pills with confidence. No danger-
ous drugs, but a scientific preparation that
will do you good from the first dose. Get
'De Witt’s” and get health.
-M
J
OVER FORTY YEARS OF SUCCESSFUL RESULTS
For over 40 years De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have been on
sale all over the world. Everywhere the success of these wonderful
Pills is being consolidated daily. Thousands and thousands —a never-
ending stream —of letters testifying to the efficacy of De Witt’s Pills
are pouring in from one-time sufferers who have become convinced
that there is no finer remedy. That is why you, too, should give
“ De Witt’s ” a trial now.
v\ AV \ i 111 J // Jj
DeWITTS
DJI D
OUR GUARANTEE.
Every box of De Witt’s Pills
sold bears this definite guar-
antee that twenty-four hours
after the first dose you will see
results. If this is not so, re-
turn to the proprietors the
partly-used bottle and your
money will be refunded in full.
De Witt’s Pills are invalu-
able in cases of :
RHEUMATASM, LUMBAGO
BACKACHE, SCIATICA
PAINS IN THE JOINTS
and all forms of KIDNEY
and BLADDER TROUBLE
He walked over to the steam tractor and
spoke a few words to the driver. The
latter worthy glanced at the east plant and
laughed sardonically. He barked an order
to the wrecking gang. In no time a two-
inch steel-wire rope was run off a winch
on the tractor and secured around the
doomed structure.
The tractor-driver wiped his hands on a
bit of waste, much as an executioner would
wipe his sword on a handkerchief. The
members of the wrecking gang gathered up
their flogging hammers, balancing them in
their hands to test the weight, and prepared
to rush in on the collapsed ruin and atomise
it. A dozen of the company’s motor-trucks
stood by ready to remove the fragments.
I made a last detour of the old building,
shouting “Stand clear!” to warn out any
employees who might be inside. When I
returned to a point from where I could
watch the crash with safety, old George
materialised from the middle distance. He
removed his pipe and grinned.
“She’ll soon be down,” he said, and
glanced at me queerly. Then, for the first
time on record, lie lit his pipe.
The tractor-driver gave a final warning
blast on his whistle. He tugged a. lever
nonchalantly. There were faces at every
window on the mine to watch the crash.
Slowly the winch' drum revolved. The rope
surrounding the old east-plant building
tightened. It became rigid. A few spots of
dust spurted from various points of the
aged structure. Then the tractor coughed
and the winch stopped.
The driver looked disconcerted. He peered
at his pressure-gauge. He threw fuel into
the furnace until the smoke poured from
the funnel and a white plume of steam
appeared at the safety-valves. He prepared
the steam-hammer for the tack. Again he
tried.
The wire rope was a straight shining line
when there was a report like the burst of
a balloon tyre. One end of the snapped
hawser flew back and ripped the driv-
ing-cab from the tractor. The other end
smacked against the wall of the east plant,
denting a sheet of corrugated-iron.
The wrecking gang dropped its flogging
hammers and stared. Old George, at my
elbow, nearly stood up straight with the
intensity of his “Haw ! Haw! Haw ! I done
a lot of work over there!” The chief
jumped into his car and banged the door so
hard that the tail light went on; the old
east plant still stood.
Emerging from the debris of his cab, the
tractor-driver prepared to go to work in real
earnest, with due reference to all the best
precedents of wrecking gangs. A case of
gelignite was brought from the magazine.
A hole was bored in each of the corner
posts of the east-plant building and heavy
charges inserted. Fuses were cut and caps
fitted.
As the whistles were blowing twelve mid-
day the fuses were lit. Four explosions
blending as one, the tremendous concussion
cracked an acre of concrete floor over in the
west plant, and shattered every window on
the mine. A length of rusty guttering was
shaken from the old east plant.
The wrecking gang dropped its flogging
hammers again while the driver of the tractor
cursed them till he was breathless. The
waiting motor-trucks drove off to more press-
ing duties.
Late in the afternoon, when the tractor
had broken its winch and lost part of the
jib-crane in front, and the three explosives
magazines on the Croesus were seriously
depleted, it was decided that the old east
plant could not be pulled down en masse. It
would have to be taken to small pieces,
methodically.
Old George and I lingered on long after
our usual knock-off hour to watch the pro-
gress.
The slanting rays of tlie setting sun shone
on one of the queerest sights the mine had
ever known. At every comparatively vul-
nerable point in the east-plant building a
member of the Foundry wrecking gang
pushed and swung on a pincli-bar like a mon-
key on a trapeze. By nightfall they had
removed portion of the roof. The rest of
the Croesus looked as though it had been
subjected to heavy shell-fire. Tanks and
water-pipes were leaking all over the lease
where they had been punctured by flying
debris. The latter did not come from the
east plant. i
“I hope they get her down before I leave
you at the end o’ next week,” old George
murmured to me anxiously as we prepared
to go home.
They did, to an accompaniment of the
most hideous din of blasting and hammer-
ing and sawing possible to imagine. With
the aid of pneumatic saws and jack-liammers
and oxyacetylene blowpipes and a consider-
ably augmented wrecking gang working three
shifts, the east plant was demolished, if
such a term can be used in the case, in a
bit over ten days. Splinter by splinter it
was teased apart. A couple of times a day
a motor-truck would roll along, and the
fragments would be shovelled up.
On the Thursday morning old George and
I were watching the crippled steam-tractor
start off to its dry dock when the chief
drove up and joined us. Lie was more sub-
dued than I had ever previously seen him.
“Were you responsible for the solidity of
that old structure?” he asked George.'
The patriarch nodded.
“It’s put all my plans out a fortnight,”
observed the chief gloomily. “And the con-
tract must have just about broke the Foun-
dry wrecking gang.” He gazed moodily at
the departing remains of the steam-tractor.
It had travelled fifty yards when one of
its gigantic hind wheels struck an ancient
water-trough built by old George in the
days of horses. The tractor slewed around
on the buckled wheel and coughed dislieart-
enedly.
The chief turned to old George.
“You’re an absolute damn marvel,” he
stated frankly. “Stay on the Croesus as
long as you like. We’ll be proud to have
you.”
Taxi-drivers still point out old George to
tourists as he hobbles about the mine, fol-
lowed by the vacuous-looking apprentice.
The Road to the Baths.
With malachite and copper shine
The great leaves of the Moreton Bays,
Earth’s sons by Heaven, half divine,
And heirs of many nights and days.
Their reverend beauty heals the sight,
And their nude bodies, dark and strong,
Join to tli’ Ethiop swordsman’s might
The Druid’s power to banish wrong.
But yonder, ’neath the low sea-wall.
A myriad mermaid-mirrors flash,
A mute, bright diamond water-call,
And fishtails softly lap and splash.
The luring sea, the goddess sea —
Pelagia, Undine, green-haired Ran ! —-
And a scaled triton’s spell on me,
Whose power the Moreton Bays would ban !
Fair walls arise like ivory towers
And show striped awnings of the East;
On a pure sill grow scarlet flowers—
An altar with the sun for priest.
Palms wave broad fans, and perfume wafts
From great magnolia censers white ;
The tree-ferns lift their plumy shafts,
And leaves and butterflies drift bright.
By twos and threes the bathers pass
Light-laughing as .in Babel’s days,
And on the shadowed, leaf-strewn grass
Beneath the reverend Moreton Bays
Young Mary hugs her straw-born child
Beside the wineshop Magdalene.
But we are not by these beguiled—
Babel and Zion such have seen.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
A Pilgrim Ship.
The Morning, in a red sarong,
On soft Malayan feet
Has danced the drowsy isles along
To herald Night’s defeat;
From Timor-laut to blue Ann am
Green-turbaned hills arise
From tropic slumber, and salaam
The Sultan of the Skies.
Mahomet’s mission to attest
In Islam’s distant goals,
To-day they turn their dark eyes west,
Ten hundred fervid souls.
A Frankish ship, a dragon black,
At Singapura waits
To bear them on, though few win back,
Towards Mecca’s holy gates.
A lean, swart band, assembled wide
From Kampong, town and hill;
Some skin-and-bone, some hollow-eyed,
But True Believers still —
A thousand devotees whose creed
A camel-driver far
Beyond his desert spread the seed
With script and scimitar.
Small worldly wealth their labor yields.
Poor comfort have they won
Who till a crop in Javan fields;
Or ’neath Sumatra’s sun,
In dense, death-haunted jungles, bear
Head burdens day on day
Of camphor, gold or gem-stones rare
For coolie food and pay.
And yet (all potent faith!) from lean
Reward of toil they spare
And stint through weary years to glean
A Frankish steamer fare!
To cleanse tlieir simple souls from sin
They grudged their bodies rice;
By self-denials strove to win
The foods of Paradise.
A thousand pilgrims,_ crowding, line
The wharves of Singapore
In gaudy rags. To Mecca’s shrine
This faith will lead them o’er
The steamy sea, the burning sand,
The wady and the plain,
Still stumbling in a lessened band
Their Kaaba to attain.
The heavy noon makes breath a stress,
Their sweaty sarongs cling;
No monsoon with a cool caress
Its benison doth bring;
They mount the gangway, ten by ten—
Brown girls, whose smoothened hair
Like lacquer shines; old, wrinkled men,
And wives who once were fair.
On naked feet they, timid, seek,
Wliate’er appointed place
The infidel provides. These hadjis meek,
Who journey for the grace
Of Allah, tremble, and their eyes,
The eyes of Asia, stare
In apprehension and surprise,
Strange marvels ev’rywliere!
The ship’s command an urgent bell
For forward movement rings.
The dragon roars its hoarse farewell
To all familiar things.
A waning sun, unclouded, low
O’er florid Sunda burns,
And of a thousand none may know
W T ho, going forth, returns !
For some will in the Red Sea die
And more at Cormorin;
And some will in the deserts lie,
And few from Mecca win.
But just is Allah ! —they who kiss
The sacred stone will be
At one with them who fail, in bliss
Throughout eternity.
The Sultan sun in gold sarong
Is gone. Her sea-trail bright
A ship of iron lays along
The pathways of the night.
Dark, huddled forms her decks between,
Arm-pillowed sleep or dream;
White, overhead in space, serene
And cold, the mute stars gleam !
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


w
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HO CM r s & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 b’eatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. BbllKK, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the fnf erest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and .
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN Cl. ÜBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
Clk mercury
by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
tl)« Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide!
N.S.W. Representative:
f. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know ?
“The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
m
98.
wWkwXJCwawN
m
ŵ
<t> PILLS V
PRICE IS. Qd
S o 5 d by the ProorToioi
m
Health matters 1 On Health depends you*
physical well being—that bright, cheerful,
optimistic outlook on life. But health, happi-
ness, beauty, depend on a clean system. If
poisons linger in your system, trouble starts.
Irritability, languidness, sickness, headaches
soon spoil the wish to enjoy and denote auto-
toxication. Beecham’s Pills do much to keep
your system free from waste and poison.
Purely vegetable they do their work promptly
and thoroughly. To keep smiling and healthy
keep Beecham’s by you.
BEECHAMS
PILLS
Worth a Guinea
A Satisfied Customer!
68 Charles Street,
Launceston.
June 11, 1929.
“Examiner” Office, Launceston.
Dear Sir, —It may interest you to know that within three days I have
received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville, Under-
wood, Sulphur Creek, Mcorleah, Latrobe, Sheffield, Hobart, Winnaleah.
I MUST CONGRATULATE YOU ON THE VALUE YOU GIVE ME
FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS.
Yours faithfully,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
M. S. ALLAN, 426 National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne;
W. G. DOUGAN, 726 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin’*
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please jorward The Bulletin Jor 12, 6, 3 months from ,
for which 1 enclose £
NAME :
ADDRESS .
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/.
dfi
vf
&
V s \*
0°
* IV
S e V* ...
s'
o'
r. 7
..*•*
• • °, \o - sva v


WARATAH
FENCE
HINGED tIOINTfI
The “Hinged Joint’’
and the “Tension
Curve” are two special
features of the
Waratah Fence.
In the event of
the wires be-
ing distorted /
by a beast
or other
cause, immedi-
ately the strain
is removed the
“Hinged Joint” allows
the fence to revert to its
original position. The
Waratah “Tension Curve”
gives the fence greater
resilience, and prevents
the possibility of the
line wires fracturing
during frost.
TEN/lON
CURVE
“8.H.P.”
Newcastle Steel
is used exclusively
in the "‘Waratah”
Fence, making it less
costly to buy and erect
than single wires and droppers.
CAN YOU AFFORD TO IGNORE
THIS SAVING?
Many farmers have the idea that it costs more to erect
an all-metal fence than an ordinary wire-and-dropper
fence. This is not the case. It is definitely cheaper to erect
a Waratah Fence, “Hinged Joint/ 7
In addition to the saving in first cost, the Waratah Fence,
“Hinged Joint,” offers you these other advantages:—
1— It is fireproof
2 It is stockproof
3 It is weatherproof
4 It will last a lifetime
5 The improved appearance will add to the
value of your property and will more than compensate for the first cost. It immedi-
ately suggests efficiency, safety and progress.
THE “WARATAH” FENCE, with the “Hinged Joint,” is made in three types: Special Heavy
Fence —Tyeasy High Tensile Fence —Standard Fence.
Waratah 5-line Sheep Fence, “Hinged Joint”; 5 lines—26in. high—pickets 12in. apart—Line wire spacings, 8,7, 6, 5 inches.
Three types. Packed in 5-chain rolls.
Waratah 6-line Sheep Fence, “Hinged Joint”; 6 lines—36in. high—pickets !2in. apart—Line wire spacings, 9,8, 7,6,
6 inches. Three types. Packed in 5-chain rolls.
Prices on application.
Special Fences are also available for Cattle, Lambs and Pigs, j All are fully described and illustrated
in the Waratah Fence Booklet. Write in for your copy.
Stocked by Leading Merchants and Distributors throughout Australia.
Made in Australia from B.H.P. Newcastle Steel.
MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD.
WORKS; NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE; 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Makers also of the following fencing materials; “Waratah” Wire Netting, “Waratah” Barbed Wire, and the famous
“Waratah” B.H.P. Star Steel Posts.
The Onlu HINCED
•
in
