

KINC CEORCEIV
"HIS MASTER'S CHOICE"
"KING CEORCE IV"
A POPULAR "SCOTCH" SELECTION
Produced by
THE DISTILLERS AGENCY LTP
EDINBURGH
954
The finest winsRy
on Record
PATON
The Bulletin
The Big Inconco-Page 8
Vol. 52.—No. 2672.
Wednesday, April 29, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for Dymock’s Library Catalogue,
and lists on all subjects, which will
be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
ďf
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 331
€ \t HAIR
HERES
<tyhxj -
Jk
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of- the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for-
SfcoJJmis CMEX/CANJ
tikdruut Sfavtt
♦removes the grey
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct Vl/6), 6d. being postage.
ď
Free
from
Pim-
ples !
What a relief it is to know that
your skin can be free of blemishes.
Anoint gently with Cutieura
Ointment, then wash off in a
few minutes with tutieiira
Soap and warm water. A very
simple but satisfying treatment
of pimples!
The Cutieura Treatment has
been used for years in thousands
of homes throughout the world.
CUTICURA
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
fJ&&sia/iy<t7cL£&4,
,y<Sc<&n&e ,
njpfurtf S'CeXCc-J, StwpC.
s-S&U&n TurteJ, /3*4Zfcs fox
t&e J&rusn-f '
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES ©2
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
N
t
res
a
u
f
rst
d
G
ma
n
om
NATURE is a stern taskmistress if
you disregard her. The first
command is to keep a clean
open system so that disease cannot get
a foothold. Constipation is a deadly
menace. Reasonable exercise and the
help of Figsen at the slightest sign of
constipation will keep your system
working cleanly and well. Figsen, the
gentle laxative, is a splendid precau-
tion against eliminative troubles, does
not purge or gripe nor does it create
the “medicine habit.” No unpleasant
after effects. Equally effective for
adults and children. Pleasant to take
and absolutely effective.
FIGSEN
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for .
every ordinary ail- J
ment /
Sold only by
Chemists
m
w
THE PATRIOT
i DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Bank Deposit Receipts
receipts are issued for money lodged with
the bank to earn interest for fixed periods. They
provide a useful form of investment for the general
public. The esteem in which they are held is shown
by the fact that over £22,000,000 is invested in the
National Bank’s Fixed Deposit Receipts at the present
time.
Any person may become a depositor. Receipts are
issued for amounts of £5 and upward. Interest com-
mences from the day the money is lodged.
RATES OF INTEREST ON DEPOSITS.
3 months .. 4% % per annum
6 months
1 year
2 years
y^c no . . . . J 4 ~ ~
NATIONAL BANK
Of AUSTRALASIA LTD.
SYDNEY PRINCIPAL OFFICE, 342 GEORGE STREET
Capital Paid Up—£s,ooo,ooo.
Reserve Fund £3,200,000.
ASSETS EXCEED £45,000,000.
467 offices in Australia
The Red Page
Rubbing Up America
Glimpses of the American scene continue
to drop out of the mailbag. One is Theo-
dore Dreiser’s Hey, Rub-a-dub-dub!
Dreiseristically subtitled “A Book of the
Mystery and Wonder and Terror of Life”
(Constable; Roycroft; 75.). Add “In
America” to the subtitle and you have it.
Everywhere has its life curiosities, most of
them well on a par with America’s oddities,
but the things Dreiser goes for are loudly
clad in horn-rimmed spectacles and speak
somewhat through the nose. Linklater
enjoys the American scene as a spectacle
specially evolved to make laughter among
the gods and birds; Mencken laughs at it
in anger; Dreiser looks at it with cold
resentment. That a millionaire politician
and horseowner should have erected a
15,000-dollar monument to a horse outrages
him. This sort of thing makes him boil:—
A Staten Island brewer worth 20 millions died of
heart failure, induced by undue joy over the fact
that he had been elected snare drummer of a
shriners’ lodge
One man was given one year for cold, brutal
manslaughter in New York, whereas a whole family
of colored people in the South was strung up and
riddled with bullets for so little as that one of them
fought with a deputy sheriff; while a woman who
had shot another woman through a window because
of jealousy (aroused by her husband’s assumed atten-
tions to said woman) was acquitted and then went
on the stage, the general sentiment being that “one
could not electrocute a woman.’’
America, as he presents it, is a mighty
pretty place; but perhaps it is in better
cultural health than the country that can
ban Redheap because Norman Lindsay’s
criticism of a section of us is too acute
for our tender skins.
Upton Sinclair
There’s another, and if anything still
more serious, looking at America in Upton
Sinclair’s latest, Roman Holiday (T. Werner
Laurie; 7s. 6d. net). The looking is done
through the eyes of one of the money-
making class which the author detests. As
propaganda it is effectual enough. Setting
a capitalist to tell it in the first person
singular, the writer easily contrives to make
the teller’s gods enormities. As a novel,
it is rather poorer. Not a solitary person
in it lives. Only a wooden effigy could sue
Upton Sinclair for libel on the strength
of it. The essentials could have been neatly
presented in a pamphlet of a quarter the
length, though the novel form does allow
the propagandist to do his work without
open ,bitterness or vituperation. Roman
Holiday has importance as coming from the
man who wrote The Brass Check, but that’s
about all.
Something Better
Po’ Buckra, by Gertrude Mathews Shelby
and Samuel Gaillard Stoney (Gollancz;
Roycroft; 75.), is yet another American
picture—one that leaves those other two
at the opening paragraph and is so far
ahead at the end of the first chapter that
they never sight it again. Perhaps com-
parison is unjust —they are written books;
it is something like literature. Another
merciless contrast can be made with it—
against the sympathy-with-the-poor-negro
type of novels which pour out of America.
Primarily, it is a study of the reactions of
a mulatto, white enough to pass for a white,
to a crowded life of searching tests. But
it is no mere sniffing at the breed. Its
writers are not affected by such sedatives
against art as conventional morals. Unlike
Upton Sinclair, who is the only character at
all alive in his novel, they view their scene
and its inhabitants with the detachment
of artists. They follow their “po’ buckra”
(poor white) as invisible observers, and
record just as impartially the effects of the
caste-distinction cruelties that -strike him in
youth and the bad blood coming ‘to the
surface in him later on, when he is mar-
ried to a survivor of the old slave-owning
class, a girl who had snubbed him, and who,
when he had come back from the army of
the recent war, had married without
remembering him but knowing that he was
not bred true. That is the primary theme.
A greater study is of the girl, Judith, and
one still greater the decay of the Southern
States aristocracy, symbolised in the dis-
integration of one of its oldest footings,
brought down from feudal glory to barren-
ness, despite Judith’e losing fight to hold it.
The place lives, and the people live. -There
are passages truer than reality. But it is
all beautifully done. It, with a few more
that have come out of the mailbag lately—
Morning Tide, Tobit Transplanted, The
Garden —reminds one that the fashion for
mutilating English in novels is hurrying by.
After all, James Joyce might have done his
mangling of the
language in vain.
Also in vain the
critics might have
torn their hair
over his Ulysses.
There was nothing
to worry about. English was never purer —
however much better it may have been—
than it is in these recent novels.
Another Observer
Taken in its social aspect alone, Po’
Buckra deals with only a handkerchief-
sized problem compared with that looked
into by Hugh Redwood in God in the Slums
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymocks; 2/9).
Redwood believes that every Salvationist
working in London slums was personally
chosen by God for the job, and he also
believes that miracles are being performed
there to-day as great as the miracles of
legend. He is entitled to his conclusions;
but whatever one may think of them, it is
unlikely that many will miss being im-
pressed by the premises from which he
draws them. Night editor on a London
paper, he used his day off helping in the
relief work that followed the Thames flood
of 1928. That led him into contact with the
work of the Salvationists, and his observa-
tions in their company led to the book.
He found in this London, at this date of
civilisation, conditions of degradation to
amaze even a specialist in such things.
Were it possible* for instance, to make known
the number of little children outraged in their own
homes, the yet greater number whose life-springs,
minds arjfl spirits are polluted in the earliest years,
all England would ring with execration.... •
Children with tainted bodies and tainted instincts;
a girl of 12 with that upon her memory which
Hell itself would shudder at.
Things “that lurk in the cellar-kitchens
and living-kennels where households herd
with the promiscuity of brutes.”
They are a definite, insistent challenge to the
politician, the hygienist, and, above all, the Christian.
They are hot-beds of discontent —how could it be
otherwise ? —and they furnish the anti-social agitator
with much of his most promising material. Tempers
are reddening to-day from a black sullenhess to an
active anger; a generation has come to manhood
and parenthood which has never known employment;;
souls are being strangled by a cretinous debasement
of every moral standard. Catastrophe is not far
distant: unless Christianity takes up the gauntlet
it is inevitable.
That challenge to Christianity is the pur-
pose of his book. I may be wrong, but it
seems to me he conveys the impression
of thinking that Christianity will smugly
ignore it. The book is one that might, be
read with profit just now in this bright
and mostly warm land. Australia, com-
pared with this London, is a paradise—
perhaps of fools.
Is Russia?
It might be better if Englishmen like
E. P. Benn—a book of whose, violently
antagonistic to Russia., was lately reviewed
here—were to compare their Russia with
that London of Redwood’s, and see if they
hadn’t a foul enough nest of their own
without bothering so much about the other
fellow’s. A specialist like Redwood might
find worse in Russia, though that seems
doubtful. Certainly,' though mention is
made of the poverty, the food queues, the
cruel shortage of clothing, the danger ahead
of the Soviet in the coming winter, there is j
no mention of any such conditions in the
pamphlet What We Saw in Russia, by
Aneurin Revan, E. J. Strachey and George
Strauss,, members of the House of Commons
(publishers,-Hogarth Press, at Is. net). It is
one of the sanest-sounding views of Russia
that I have read. They do not miss seeing
that the cost has been and still is terrible,
but their verdict is that the Soviet changes
are so far-reaching and so valuable to the
Russian people that their disappearance is
inconceivable.
RED PAGE.
Gargantua, Aust., Unltd.
Fairbairn of, Jesus, being the Personal
Reminiscences of Steve Fairbairn in Aus-
tralia, Cambridge*and Elsewhere (Lane;
Robert son and Mullens; 10s.), is probably
unique in Australian literature. Self-revela-
tion is rare in the writers of any country.
It is practically non-existent in this land,
where self-consciousness is almost a national
characteristic. Mr. Fairbairn’s portrait of
himself is entirely un-self-conscious. It
starts with
My grandfather weighed 22 stone in good condi-
tion, and at. the Scotch Gaines he did not go in for
the wrestling competition but took on the two best
together—one in each hand, so to speak. My
mother’s brothers were also exceptionally powerful
men. They each weighed 18 stone and three of
them were celebrated in the family for their pro-
digious feats of strength.
That gives the keynote to the symphony.
It is the chant of brawn, the gospel of the
superman of muscle. It is Gargantua telling
his own story.
My first day’s schooling was at the age of four
but did not last the day out, as I was expelled
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


USE OUR
D. P. S.
(Deposit Purchase
System).
First select the goods
you require; then leave
a deposit on them,
arrange for the pay-
ment of balance in
suitable instalments,
and, after final pay-
ment, the purchase is
yours. You pay no
extra.
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Conscience o] Business.
Anthony
Horderns’
“THE SENIOR STORE.*
Post Orders
Although you may he
living many miles from
Sydney you are able
to buy the same goods
at exactly the same
prices that Sydney
people are paying.
Anthony Horderns’
Mail Order section
guarantees you satis-
faction. Order by
mail from Anthony
Horderns’. Or ’phone
M 2401 day or night.
Genuine Autumn Sale Begins Friday, May 1
No. 2 “Spra-motor,” £6/17/6
211/581.
The “Spra-motor” is
the best all-round
spraying machine
made; it was awarded
first place at the
Government spraying
contest at Grimsby.
It has all the
patented improve-
ments, and has been
fully tested and
approved. It* can be attached to the side of a barrel.
Fitted with quick-opening plates. It can be removed
■rom the barrel or tank without unscrewing any bolts
or nuts. It is built low down, and is the strongest
machine ever placed on the market. All the working
parts are brass, and it has two outlets for two lines of
hose.
It is arranged for three lengths of stroke, 3J, and
inches, thereby adjusting the capacity of the machine
to the number of nozzles in use; will be found ample
to operate eight nozzles at one time. Hose extra.
Price £6/17/6
Cask and Fitting 15/- extra.
The “Rega” Hand Spray Pump, 27/-
211/75.
Spray Pump,
£3/17/6
The Eclair (211/75) All
Copper Knapsack Spray
Pump. Capacity, 3 j
gallons. Packed, 221 b.
Price £3/17/6
Plombe, Acid Proof,
£4/15/6.
All Brass, for lime, sul-
phur. Price .... £4/5/-
2)0/72.
The “Rega” Hand Spray
Pump. Brass working
parts and air chamber
with 4ft. hose and com-
bination nozzle. Price
27/-. Extra Hose, 7d-
per foot. A most excel-
lent pump for use in
garden, vineyards, etc.,
for washing purposes,
or spraying out poultry
houses. Nothing could
be more simple nor
durable than this pump.
It is double-acting, and
has a large air-chamber
space.
210/72.
The improved “Bordeaux” nozzle enables a continuous
stream of water to be regulated to either solid, spray,
or mist spray. It is easily degorged or shut off
entirely, features possessed by no other spray nozzle.
Also smaller size, similar to 210/72. Price . . 21/6
210/202.
r a
Shanks’s “Britisher”
Lawn Mower
Shanks’s “Britisher” Lawn Mower (210/202).
The "Britisher” is absolutely the most reliable
Side-wheel Mower on the market. It is built with
all the precision, skill and care that goes into
every Shanks machine; is durable, easy to work,
and the ideal machine for a small lawn. Has
5 blades. Complete with grass-box.
Sizes, inches 10 12 14
Prices £5/7/6 £5/15/- £6/3/6
210/481
V
“Queen” Water Ballast Garden Rollers
The “Queen” Water Ballast Garden Roller (210/489). Can be weighted as
desired by the operator by simply adding water through the inlet provided.
Weight
cwt. qr. lb.
Size, 20in. x 20in, 3 I 0
Size, 22in. x 22in . 4 2 0
Size, 24in. x 24in 5 1 0
Size, 27in. x 27in 7 2 0
Weight Full
cwt.
4
6
7
! 0
qr.
1
0
1
2
lb.
14
0
0
0
Prices.
£l2
£l3/10/-
£l6/5/-
£2l/18/6
A NOTHER of Anthony Horderns’
Famous Genuine Sales begins on
May 1. A Sale so important in
savings, so great in the variety of its
bargains, and so outstanding in char-
acter that no one should fail to benefit
by it. Whatever you may need. .. .
whether it be for personal or house-
hold or farm use.... you will find it
bargain priced. The Sale of Sales, it
should be the Sale for you. If you
are unable to buy personally, order
by letter.
Amazing Offer Closes Ist May
Realise on that old Mattress now
w
ŵ
ẁ
Anthony Horderns’ will allow you £l for the privilege of making a bonfire
of that old mattress of yours however dilapidated its condition! Anthony
Horderns’ are mindful of the immensely important bearing that bedding has
on health —they know how easily bedding becomes unhygienic. It is this
fact that prompted the Government practically to forbid the remaking of
bedding (kapok) under the Public Health (Amendment) Act, 1921.
What We Do; What You Do
1. —YOU select your, fresh bedding from our tremendous assortment, the
prices being, as always at Anthony Horderns’, the lowest possible, quality
considered. BUT—note this! Off our "Famous Low Prices” you receive
a generous rebate on your old bedding. WE WILL ALLOW YOU £! FOR
YOUR OLD MATTRESS IF YOU PURCHASE A NEW FULL-SIZE ONE. IF
YOU DECIDE ON A MATTRESS SMALLER THAN 4ft. 6in. WIDE WE
WILL ALLOW YOU 10/- OFF THE PRICE OF A NEW ONE. This, of course,
is off our standard prices as quoted in our regular Price List. We do not
include Flock or Fibre Bedding in this offer, as we do not recommend them as
"Better Bedding.”
2. WE WILL deliver your new bedding free of charge (if you live in the
metropolitan area), and SPECIAL vans will pick up your old mattress.
No. 11 Double & Single
Wheel Hoe, 77/6
211/551 — No. 11
Double and Single
Wheel Hoe. The No.
11 is a very complete
tool for the homo or
market gardener. The
6in- and 4£in. hoes are
the greatest weed-
killers known; the
cultivator teeth give
thorough cultivation;
211/551.
ploughs are used for opening and closing furrows, hilling up plants, etc.
As with the Double-wheel Hoe, the gardener can straddle the row until
the plants are 20in. high, cultivating both sides at one time. Equipment:
Pair of 6in. hoes, pair of hoes, four steel cultivator teeth, pair of ploughs,
3-tooth and two 5-tooth rakes, pair of leaf lifters £3/17/6
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY,
Postal Address:
Boh 2712 C, G.P.O.


mmm
i
y®
mm \
\
m>s
i~r
■%
! K?
W.
<• k***o
>V'
<£xxP
i
y y /y
1 1 $m
SSi
A morning's hard work completed—a
luctance to start again and face the bother
of preparing for yourself the good lunch
you have earned —REX-PYE to the rescue!
No trouble—a lb or 'Alb can of REX-PYE
off the ice, some lettuce or mint sauce or a
tomato—the tasty sustaining lunch you
need! Enough, too, to make wholesome
meat sandwiches for those of the family
who go to work or school. in
jelly is delicious —worth the few pence more
because of its quality. It is the finest meat
in the world.
u\-n i
e m
fd
Foggitt Jones Pty. Limited —Curers of the choice FsEX Hams and Bacon


10,000 Recipes that will
make money for you
I
i ''- ’■ •■. v '- ;: ' ■■ t
' ' JM
>
m
0 Um
rsT
■ :
i 1
■: .
mmm
on the hundreds of
things you use daily in
your home, your factory,
office, store or farm.
Price 21/-
POST FREE
NEW REVISED AND
ENLARGED EDITION
IN every can of baking powder
or paint you buy—in the
hundreds of things you use in
your home or business —is a
goodly profit you can now save
and make your own through
the priceless knowledge con-
tained in HENLEY’S
TWENTIETH CENTURY
BOOK OF RECIPES,
FORMULAS AND PRO-
CESSES.
It places at your finger-tips
over ten thousand separate
recipes, preparations, formulas
and processes containing the
latest scientific discoveries.
In simple, non-technical terms
it explains how you can make
every conceivable thing in
general use, from inks and
toothpastes to asphalt, cement
and battery solutions. It con-
tains the discoveries of civili-
sation itself!
Thousands of Unpublished Secret Processes.
Thousands of secret processes and formulas are here published for the first time —
many of them gleaned from the private papers of leading French and European
scientists and never before translated into English.
Many a fortune has been built on a good formula. Think wliat it would mean
to have ten thousand to choose from!
All Yours for a Small Sum.
The housewife will find it valuable in making beautifying creams, baking powders
or insecticides. With it. the factory can save money on belt dressings, amalgams
or boiler compounds. The farmer will find its latest scientific information on
fertilisers, cheese-making, tanning and Portland cement indispensable.
Hardly a day passes but what you require authentic, up-to-the-minute information
on these very recipes, formulas and processes. Why not send for a copy of this
remarkable one volume encyclopaedia to-day?
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
early in the afternoon. I waited until school came
out and carried one of the girls home. Her name
was Bella, and she was only three.
His next school broke up when he was
six, and
on the last day everyone else got prizes, but I,got
a whipping. I had been caught down a well with
a girl. I left my next school because I stole
turnips.
Gargantua then went to Wesley College,
survived two years, and entered Geelong
Grammar. Quarantined, he escaped through
a window, and j oined .in a „ six-mile
paperchase and ’a hard football match—
“not a bad day’s work for a boy sickening
for scarlet fever.” Gargantua .excelled in* all
forms of sport andtdespised none
Tops are a most difficult pastime and require
touch in the . highest degree, as iwell as perfect
timing, balance,, and control., I used to be a
champion shot with a catapult, or shanghai, as we
called them. We used to> have , regular matches 1 to
see who could kill the most birds on Saturdays
in the bush; I always won. ’
At the age of mine he represented his
school in the under-l 2 race at'the.Vic. public
school sports, f and in his' last-.year, at school
he f ■ L ■ ■ f /' '
gained more points lin those same. sports towards
the Challenge Clip 4for the-"bcst school than’, any-,
other school, got! with') all its' boys L-a performance *
I doubt .if ever equalled. . k/ ,TKo,ugh t st(ll a schoolboy
I was chosen for my bowling in a match in pre-.*
'ference to George Palmer, who bowled for Australia
next year in.,the,team that ...visitedEngland, .and I
was asked to row’•in ,the'interstate'boat-face for
•Victoria when just, -leaving I school. My 5 swimming
.performance was on -the same lines. ■<: b, -
In the mouth of an ordinary person this
might sound Hike . skjte,: but when .one,
has a grandfather weighing 22 stone who
takes on two' champion wrestlers simul-
taneously it becomes a simple state-
ment of fact. Young Gargantua went to
fresh triumphs at Cambridge. He became
world-famous as an oarsman, and on
his holidays used to run up Mount Skiddaw,
3000 feet, every morning before breakfast.
He played Gargantuanly with the proctor’s
attendants, and used a London policeman as
a football, and when he got his university
degree “the London evening paper said it
was the most popular degree since Lord
Byron.” Gargantua does not despise cul-
ture, but the real purpose of the institution
which nurtured Cranmer, Coleridge, Car-
dinal Newman and the author of “A Senti-
mental Journey” is made patent in his
pages:—
The lessons learnt from healthy games and mixing
together go as far, if not further, to make a useful
and successful man, as reading abstruse subjects.
I have noticed that the boys at school who were
not brilliant at lessons are the ones that succeed
in business.
And Gargantua did succeed in business—•.
Gargantuanly. In that respect he resembled
his father, who bought 100,000 acres of
sheep country in Victoi-ia at £1 an acre and
put 150 miles of wire-netting around it—
the first time wire had been so used in
Australia—sold out, bought a property in
Queensland for £ll,OOO, sold it for £lll,OOO,
bought another for a song, sold it for
£250,000 cash, and paid out £3,000,000 in
wages to his working hands and in expenses.
One of his schemes was to supply Mel-
bourne, Geelong and Ballarat with eggs by
putting 30,000 hens “in fowlhouses, join
these fowlhouses in a line, and move them
on every day, just their own length, leaving
yesterday’s eggs and manure behind; the
eggs would thus be collected easily and
the land would be improved by the
manure.” His son is convinced that the
old man would have done it, too, if he
had only been younger.
The same Homeric note sounds through
his own struggles with drought, shearers’
strikes and socialistic legislation. The
laboriously-built-up structure of Australian
humanitarianism need never have existed.
Strikes were made to be broken just as
enemy half-backs were made to be beaten.
As for such manikin-made schemes as
Closer Settlement Acts:—
Another owner sold a large property worth £5
an acre for £l3 an acre. In other parts the law
dropped the price of land, and the big men bought
and increased their holdings, again defeating its
object. So it will always be. Governments will
legislate but intelligent individuals will prosper.
Fairbairn of Jesus requires only one thing
to make it complete—Gargantua’s adven-
tui-es with the fair sex, if any. Then it would
be, by a long chalk, the outstanding self-
portrait in Australian literature. ■
M.G.S.
A Satchel of Books
London Memories, by St. John Adcock
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymocks; 7s. 6d.
net). This is literary London, from as far
back as there are posts remaining to point
to, until to-day. Most of the .names in Eng-
lish literature come into the sto'ry, which
is told in an engaging fireside manner that
makes the sweeping .survey good general, as
well as special, reading.
Hans I’ossendorf’s Bax (Chapman and
Hall; 7s. 6d.) is a novel of circus life in
Europe, where that form of entertainment is
taken very seriously. “Bux,” the, world-
famous clown, is Dr. Willibald Buchsbaum
in private life, and the main ‘moil/ is his un-
fortunate marriage, to an aristocrat and his
eventful discovery,of the right, girl. A series
of inexplicable murders bring suspicion'on
him, and the climax of an unpretentious
story, which was- a best-seller in Germany,
is the unmasking of the guilty party.
Portrait of Caroline, by Elizabeth Bibesco
(Hutchinson ; 65.). The soul of Lady Carol-
ine Wraybury is revealed through her letters
and those of her guests at Wraybury Park,
and so are the souls of several of her friends
and relations. The letters only extend over
four days, but such is the early Victorian
industry and thoroughness of the correspon-
dents that a clear light is thrown on those
concerned, their likes, prejudices, loves, con-
tempts and all else. Princess Bibesco has
plenty of wit, and she exercises it, but so
amiably that, though most of her characters
are obviously drawn from life, it is hard to
imagine any of them being annoyed.
Gaston Leroux, author of The Missing
Archduke (John Long; 7s. '6d. net), is the
Edgar Wallace of France. In this example
of his art the secret of the Hapsburgs’ ill-
luck is revealed. The victims were assassi-
nated by members of a secret society. In a
narrative that fairly teems with horrors rich
and rare it seems invidious to discriminate,
but the chapter entitled “The Death Roll”
calls for mention. For sheer ghastliness it
is probably not surpassed by anything in
modern literature. Like most of Leroux’s
novels this one contains little sex stuff —no-
thing but good, clean homicide.
\ 'ln’:the Heart of \the Northern Forests, by
, A. Radclyffe Dugmore (Chatto .and Windus ;
21s. net). Th’ei, writer has .-a habit of’talking
down to his audience, which does " not make
him the best •of companions with whom to
'go wandering the "Canadian woods;- the
Rockies and other ;, grand, wild-life places of
North, America; butwhen he stops trying
to make, up his mind' as to whether his
audience is 15 or 50, and uses his camera’s
eyes and his own, the result is rattling good
mature stuff. His photographs of beaver at
.of their homes, larders and other
winders are among the best things of the kind
present reviewer lias seen.
. Wild-Wind, by Temple Bailey (Hurst and
.Blackett; 7s. 6d. net), is painfully girlish.
Jacqueline loves- Christopher. “You’re a
'"part.Jof ‘ my- poem,”, she had told him when
America-‘.went ,to war' with Germany and
lie went off to fight. After that Jacqueline
is:'con'tinually ! flying to people in trouble,
and f kneeling beside them, and feeling rap-
and ’being unselfish, -and ■ seeing the
' heavens opening in all their glory (because
-Kit‘-is coming, back or something), and
getting flushed and radiant and kittenish
and all the rest of it till at last she is
’ nearly drowned and comes to in Kit’s arms:
And; he was whispering: “Dear heart,” and she
whispered back: “In three.... days”. — and some-
how couldn’t finish. So he said it for her: “In
three days we will sail away—together.”
A maelstrom of exotic emotion, but as in-
nocuous as lemonade.
Lorna Rea got a terrific press boost when
“Six Mrs. Greenes” appeared last year, and
a similar movement is noticeable in the case
of Rachel Moon (Heinemann; 7s. 6d. net).
This critic can’t for the life of him see what
the fuss is about. Rachel is accurately
drawn, and there is humor in the delineation
of some of her associates, particularly those
iix a lowly statio'n in life. But she is a com-
monplace lass; one of those estimable but
irritating creatures who dedicate themselves
to a more or less superfluous service to the
exclusion of their other obligations. In a
household which is rich enough to employ
two nurses, she opts to look after her mother,
who is hopelessly paralysed in body and
mind, and in the end her young man loses
patience and marries her sister. Then the
mother dies, and Rachel presently finds an
ailing boy to loo'k after. The episode might
have been treated as satisfactorily in a short
story.
David Learmonth’s The Empty Glass
(Hutchinsons ; 7s. 6d. net), is about life in
a fashionable English hunting county. Elsie,
the heroine, is the mistress of Geoffrey
(whose wife won’t divorce him) when the
story opens, Gerald nearly wins Elsie, but
Geoffrey—a devil with the ladies, though
one-eyed—gets her back, and Gerald marries
Mona, who can ride across counti-y better
than Elsie, but is handicapped by being a
virgin. Elsie learns that Geoffrey is being
unfaithful, and takes Gerald from Mona.
After the divorce she goes back to Geoffrey
(“They always do, old man”—it is Jim
Brandon, the narrator of the tale, speaking
—“Go back to the first one, I mean—l mean
the first they’ve lived with.”), and Gerald
flees abroad in despair, and finds Sadie,
an American. Jim is embarrassed when
Gerald introduces Sadie to their set as his
future wife. He has picked her up in Paris,
and lived with her foi‘ a week or so himself.
The author is a well-known authority on
hunting, ’chasing and that part of London
which is bounded by Hyde Park Corner and
Piccadilly Circus, and his characters live —
notably poor Mona, who graduates through
grief from dull innocence to alluring sophis-
tication. But Jim is a dull and egotistical
dog. Reading his detailed accounts of his
trivial doings is like listening to the worse
kind of club bore.
And a Little Verse
CHLOE AND HER LITTLE FAUN.
Once a faun with Chloe slept....
Cliloe and her little faun ;
Quick and cunning, both adept,
Played the night away, till Dawn,
Faithless minion, whispered Dame
Sycorax, in evil hour:
Shewed them, beautiful in shame,
Folded like a single flower.
Sycorax began to whine:
“Chloe and her little faun,
Lo, the punishment is mine;
Would that I had ne’er been born !”
N.S.W.
HUGH McCBAE.
STORM AT THE POINT.
At Miller’s Point on stormy days
Wind whips the sorrow from your heart,
The tears into your eyes ; the drays
Clip off along the rain-swept street,
And the small sound of human feet
Is lost along the sky.
Man is a little crawling thing
With pivoting mad arms and legs,
And the high wind and its alarms
Make his head ring and his heels ring,
And the tall bridge looks down on him,
And past him, out to the mystery
Of the long cloud that, loitering,
Slides down into the sea.
Man laughs a little, and then dies
On a last chuckle at life’s jest;
But the hooves of old horses go
On roads for ever to and fro.
And the long ragged gales reel
Laughing in the teeth of steel.
Whipping sorrow from your heart
And tears into your eyes.
At Miller’s Point on stormy days
Is the wind, and the wind’s ways.
N.S.W.
ELISABETH RICHMOND.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned) unless stamps accompany.
Strorn N.: Send it to some office that will
permit you to dictate the terms... .M. 0.: Even that
nice appeal failed to move the stony heart of the
till-keeper... .R.C.: Reply is because he tries to
deal with current work. When a new book by that
writer comes along it will be sure of a mention
M.E.M.: If you could get rid of your obsession you
might do something. You can express yourself....
Nebo: Well, at least curlews make everyone who hears
them write about them—if that’s a virtue... .E. 8.:
Have to give this space:—
O Woeful Basket! Receptacle of hopes and themes,
Thou monster of iniquity! Destroyer of our dreams.
With your Brobdingnagian appetite, you on our
failures glut,
Dealing death to the ambitions of some poor Lilliput.
Woe is me! 0 Basket! I’ve helped to fill your
maw
With “An Appeal,” an effort which admittedly was
raw,
And it may have been seditious (not knowing how to
mask it),
But the purpose was to guard our State from
ignominy—and Basket.
. ...E.F.L.: “Overture” very nearly got into the
programme... .R.S.: Not our kind, and some of it
is strained... .Triste: You’d do better if you watched
your metre closer... ,T.A.: You’ll have to send “The
Letter” to yet another address... .A.P.: Might place
“Wattle” elsewhere. Not much in the others. ...
Patroclus: It moves in places, upsetting the first
idea that it was dead... .D.P.: Utterly impossible
to acknowledge pars... .L.E.S.: That “low” rhyming
with “brow” cracked the office tuningl-fork and one good
set of ears.... Alexander T.: Has fine moments, but
the end is weak.... R.C.1.: You need to say much
more than that F.E.L.: Suggest Cape, of trio men-
tioned, for that kind of story. Use Heinemann as a
second string... .F.G.: Very decent of you. Thanks...
R.C.: In the triolet you need a change of meaning
with every repetition. Not a popular form here, by
the way... .5.C.8.: Sorry; don’t employ a chess
editor. .. .P.M.: Not for this market.... Ground F.:
Keep on if you feel that way, but for Heaven’s sake
change your address. Your outlook on the morgue
is killing good men....C.W.: Not struck by the
“Hope of a Nation” 0de....W.G.5.: Ditto yours on
ditto topic... .S.T.J.A.: “Short, simply-written,
sincere, original poem.” Query “poem”.... Old D.:
At enormous expense basket which defied Houdini
has been installed and reserved for political poems.
. ...E.T.: Capital handwriting... .Trepang: Pars,
lack general interest and, in one instance, some
corroboration of a grave charge....W. J. Ward:
Majority calling— e.g., it takes three no trumps, not
two, to supersede three clubs —has become the rule
all over the bridge world... .M.M.: Vance Palmer’s
“All Men Are Human” and “The Passage” can be
obtained in book form... .E.D.: A copy of “Phil
May in Australia” (Sydney, 1904), if in first-class
condition, should fetch about £2 2s W.G.8.:
Clive Arden is the pseudonym of Miss Lily Clive-
Nutt. She has written “Sinners in Heaven,” “En-
ticement” and “The Veil of Glamour”... .L.K.A.:
“Banjo” Paterson is on the “Sydney Mail”....
F.S.: Started well, but it soon wriggled out of your
grasp M.A.R.: Too much dilly-dallying in the
middle... .R.S.H.: That old tar-and-feather yarn
can’t be made new by covering the villain with
molasses and eiderdown... .8.E.W.: Hobbles to a
weary end... .E.C.G.: Unmoved by Goldilocks’s grief
over the death of her poodle... .S.C.A.: Too many
repetitions... .F.M.: You bungled the opening and
made a hotpotch of the end... .S.A.J.: Promising.
.. ..L.P.: Might have found room for it when the
lady died. Doubt if you’d place it anywhere now.
... .Couta: Leave ’em to their tombstones... .A.E.S.:
Takes more than “thee,” “thou” and “slippest” to
make a poem, though “chaste” is an A 1 ingredient.
....Ne H.: Reminded the Religious Editor that he
had to take home 21b. of putty... .Bellerive: Even
your octopus soars:—
THE OCTOPUS.
Diabolical demon of the
Depths of the ocean.
Which diveth and swim
With rapid motion.
’Twill spread its tentacles
And with gleaming eyes
Twist and leap forth
Upon a helpless prize.
The blood of its prey
The marauder will drink,
Release the drained carcase,
Which twirleth and sink.
(Next week: “Bellerive” at his very best in
“Rooster Fight.”)
H.E.: No inclination to broadcast details of
rabbit-trapper’s death. .. .K.S.: Say what you have
to say in as few words as possible.... .F.R.: Char-
acters too shadowy... .W.N.H.: Could imagine no
more tedious job than having to read it a second
time.... J.W.8.: It’s been spun over and over again.
. ...D.C.J.: Received “The Desert Kiss” on an icy
cheek... .A.G.: That subject has been treated
from every angle... .E.A.S.F.: Wobbly workmanship.
... .E.P.: It isn’t what we want... .C.A.1.: Too long
and too sentimental.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.E.: Could do with a device like that for the
removal of dud artists 8.G.: A frayed and tattered
offering... .J.C.: One jest is stale, the other putrid.
. ...V.M.F.: Your art education has been sadly
neglected.... W.F.K.: Try some other hobby.. . .E.K.:
When last seen, the fool in that gag thought Rem-
brandt was a brand of wine... .E.G.P.: Don’t tell
us that they’re still cuddling in the taxi. .. .N.H.H.:
Misfired... .K.M.: Better drawn it might have clicked.
... .A.V.M.C.: She has a lot to learn... .D.M.: Only
middling... .N. 8.: Excellent example of how a
political cartoon should not be done C.A.S.: The
bad points outnumber the good by about ten to one.
.... Y.G.: Shows a glimmer—keep 0n... .T.N.D.: Full
of errors... .R.M.: Tired of looking at that drunk cling-
ing to a lamp-post H.D.: Weak on both sides.
. ...V.L.: You can’t even draw a beard... .J.S.:
Suffers from an overdose of Chinese white. .. .K.C.:
Not smartly handled.


..V-
-m
*
I I ■
■■
ill V/, :
i s m
■
:
**;v*;4:*47*
Hk HWI
- --y *
4'
P
Si
x
■HI
ImMg
’ " \ li
K i
-v.*
■
4
I
: . "■;
,' y
|
8 K
a «
in
t m i
m
m
m
*
§£ '
lili
ft*
■
■H
iil Si
'
I '-m “ i
P
IMM smm
rJF _____
mm
H
if
wmsm
HR
■MiM
aM
M
* .
4 i
x. ■
mk ;
I ' 5/1 m f
■M 1111
i. JlilStP
I
JUs
iM
'■ > W?%y£ mmm - ‘
m ; . ; ♦*., • * ... :
44'?' . *
1
IH; 1
■<a 1
■# J#
HplM
■ 1
w<
m
r eT-w
>'• ■ • ■ -
■
FAMOUS
PORT


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2672.
April 29, 1931.
PLENTY OF REVS. BUT NO MILEAGE.
THE PASSENGER: “We’re doing sixty, and yet the scenery don’t seem to change at all. Funny, isn’t it, Ted?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21} George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: ll! t -20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 }s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £ 1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
CATASTROPHE
How much longer is the Governor of New
South Wales going to put up with his
present advisers? What degree of suffering
must the people experience, to what depth
of disgrace must the country descend, before
Sir Philip Game decides that these un-
faithful stewards must go before their
masters to be judged? Masters the electors
were designed to be under the Constitu-
tion, but for six calamitous months they
have been the victims of their faithless and
incapable servants; and, unless Sir Philip
Game intervenes, victims they will remain
until there is a general crash, involving the
very grave possibility of bloodshed.
It should not be necessary to remind the
Governor of the programme on which his
advisers were elected, but perhaps it is.
Their leader pledged himself in his policy
speech “to find the money to complete all
those uncompleted public works in which
many millions of borrowed money are lying
idle”; and he hasn’t found a red cent. He
undertook (as Mr. Scullin did a twelve-
month earlier) that work would be pro-
vided for all; and one of his Ministers, the
drivelling Ely, has confessed that “there are
84,000 persons in the metropolitan area and
20,000 in the country on the dole.” This
although the unemployed-relief tax, which
Mr. Ely’s leader denounced when his prede-
cessors imposed it, has been raised from
threepence to a shilling in the pound on
salaries and wages and to 7id. in the pound
on property income for the 1929-30 year.
The 7jjd. tax is being imposed on farmers
who have seen the price of wheat tumble to
Is. 7d. a bushel at siding. “A stabilised
market over a period of years” was “guaran-
teed” to these wickedly-deceived men; worse
still, Mr. Lang said at Parkes (the sen-
tences being subsequently published in his
party’s election advertisements).: “Return
Labor and restore the State to the prosperity
of 1925 and 1927. We promised and we
paid 7s. 6d. a bushel for wheat. What we
did then we can do now.” Other items on
a list of election promises that stretched
almost to the crack of doom were restora-
tion of widows’ pensions and family-endow-
ment payments on the pre-Bavin scale (it
hasn’t been done), repeal of “the legislation
by which Public Service salaries were re-
duced” (it hasn’t been repealed), “rehabilita-
tion of the finances of the Government rail-
ways and tramways” (they have gone from
bad to worse), and “finance on the same
lines as in 1927, when we finished with
a surplus of £1,300,000” —a record deficit of
£8,000,000 is now expected, though with 10
months of the financial year gone the State
is without a budget.
Above all, Sir Philip Game’s principal
adviser gave the electors his word that the
contracts entered into with the public
creditors would be honored. “Of this the
people can be assured,” he said in his policy
speech, as reported in his own newspaper.
“The Australian Labor movement would
not permit for one moment any of its
leaders to be associated with a policy of
repudiation. The Labor party sets its face
against all repudiation.” He made this ex-
press declaration at Auburn on September
22. In February he insulted his fellow-
Premiers by asking them “to decide” (as
he had done) “to pay no further interest to
British bondholders until Britain has dealt
with Australian overseas debts in the same
manner as she has settled her own foreign
debt with the U.5.A.,” and “to reduce inter-
est on all Government borrowings in Aus-
tralia to 3 per cent.” In March he
introduced his Reduction of Interest Bill,
which was rejected by the Legislative
Council. On April 1 he refused to pay inter-
est at the rate of 3 per cent, to the British,
who bought £66,306,100 worth of Australian
produce in 1929-30, but he paid interest at
the rate of £5 Bs. Bd. per cent, to the
Americans, who bought £5,233,700 worth of
Australian produce in 1929-30.
The State civil servants had £3,776,900 of
their superannuation funds invested in
N.S.W. Government securities on June 30,
and their organisations supported the Lang
mob at the general election; so this favored
section was exempted from the Reduction
of Interest Bill. The Government Savings
Bank was also excluded,- but only as regards
interest payable to it by clients of its
Rural Bank branch, its Homes department
and the like, not as regards interest payable
to it by the Government. Out of 70 mil-
lions of deposits it had advanced over 29
millions to the Government at an average
rate of 5h per cent., and this was to be
“scaled down” to 3 per cent., if the Gov-
ernment chose. For months past withdrawals
had greatly exceeded deposits, and when the
Scaler Government’s proposals were sub-
jected to criticism there was naturally a run
on the bank. The alarm was allayed some-
what by the action of the Leg. Council,
but it was revived when the Government
tried to rob British investors in N.S.W.
stocks (the National Health Insurance Com-
missioners, who pay benefits to aged and
infirm workers, among others), and proceed-
ings for the recovery of the money were
begun by the Commonwealth, which, with
the approval of 754,446 N.S.W. electors,
has taken over and is responsible for State
debts. At Easter the Commissioners pub-
lished agonised two-page appeals to deposi-
tors to leave their money in the bank
(addressing them through the “Labor
Daily,” among other organs of opinion), but
it had become impossible to restore confi-
dence in the institution while the Scaler
Government retained the slightest vestige
of control. On Wednesday the head of the
Scaler Government was reduced to implor-
ing the hated Commonwealth to take it over
on the Commonwealth’s own terms; on
Thursday what, until the Lang “plan” was
invented, had been the greatest Savings
Bank in Australia, and one of the greatest
in the world, closed its doors. The Scaler
Government had aimed at the “hungry
bondholders” of its diseased imagination and
hit the best element among its own sup-
porters—thrifty working people who had
made provision for bad times, sickness and
old age.
What more does the Governor want to
convince him that he should dismiss this
guilty Administration and appoint other
advisers who will make it their first duty
to consult the people? He has ample autho-
rity to do this if he will only exercise it.
He is the “guardian of the Constitution”
(the words are from the “Official Year-
Book” for 1926-27, when another Lang
Ministry was in office), and is “bound to see
that the great powers with which he is
entrusted are not used otherwise than in
the public interest”; he “may act in the
exercise of his powers and authority in
opposition to the opinion of his Ministers,
reporting the matter to the Secretary of
State for the Dominions without delay”;
he “possesses important spheres of indepen-
dent action, such as granting dissolution of
Parliament”; he may “remove and suspend
officers of State.” With capital in full flight
and the State Savings Bank out of action;
with the Government plainly bankrupt in
brains and reputation as well as money;
with industry stifled, and 29.2 per cent, of
trade-unionists (the Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s figures for the March quarter)
clamoring for the work which fools in their
unbridled folly promised them, and Moscow
agents active among the younger men,
surely Sir Philip Game will realise that it
is his duty to “act in the exercise of his
powers and authority in opposition to the
opinion of his Ministers” and send those
Ministers about their business. Not for
another day should John Thomas Lang be
permitted to continue as chief adviser of
the Crown in New South Wales. Liar, law-
breaker, disloyalist, defaulter, destroyer, he
is not fit to be Premier of a self-governing
British community. If he had his deserts he
would be in the dock.
THE BIG INCOMES.
One of the curious features of life in Europe
during the past half-dozen years has been
the swing of the U.S.A. away from France
and towards Germany. The movement has
been so pronounced that Berlin has dis-
placed Paris as the centre of American
attraction and threatens to displace it as
the fashion headquarters of the Continent.
No doubt the German’s capacity for making
friends for the sake of business has had a
great deal to do with it; but the movement
began outside anything of that sort. It
began with the German’s need for money to
re-establish and extend his industries after
the war.
Inflation in Germany did not rob the
country of any of the wealth it had, except
in so far as bad money always drives out
good. That is to say, Germans who saw
inflation coming, and mistrusted the invari-
able promise that there was going to be only
a little of it, sent their money out of the
country. Apart from this loss all that hap-
pened was that the real wealth of Germany
changed hands: the creditor was robbed and
the debtor escaped making just payments.
In this process the investor class was
almost wiped out. Now, the investor class
rarely consumes all its income. It re-
invests ; and it is from this source that most
of the capital for new ventures and the
extension of old ones is drawn. The wiping
out of the investor class dried up this
fountain, and another had to be sought.
America was seeking new markets for its
money, and millions were poured into Ger-
man enterprises. “Part of Germany’s
working capital,” Professor Moritz Bonn
wrote, “took refuge abroad on account of
the fall of the mark. The accumulated
capital of the investor has been scattered in
bits among the different classes of producers.
The general investors have ceased to exist
Germany, a country devoid of working
capital, has thus become the creditor of
nations whose financial position is far better
than her own.”
The function of the investor class and
the consequences of its disappearance are
well worth considering in Australia.
Graduated taxation is the rule rather than
the exception, in Australia as elsewhere,
on the ground that citizens should carry
the burden of taxation according to their
ability. Now and again, however, heavier
and still heavier taxation upon the higher
incomes is urged with the one object of
scattering this money among the less well-
to-do : indeed, the appropriation of all in
excess of a certain definite amount finds
many advocates. If it were proposed that
this money should be earmarked for capital
expenditure on public reproductive works,
something could be said for it from the
socialistic point of view. It might be and
no doubt would be very foolish; still it
would be preserving this money for use as
capital. But when it is dissipated in odds
and ends of general expenditure the country
is left without means for industrial develop-
ment.
Many attempts have been made to esti-
mate the national income of Australia.
Unfortunately all made during the last
few years are of no value, because much
of the wealth supposed to have been created
was fictitious and has evaporated. The
1915 War Census showed that the income
of 2,191,945 persons was £240,163,000. Of
these people 9943 in every 10,000 had an
income of £lOOO or less, leaving only 57 with
more than £lOOO. Later, J. T. Sutcliffe, in
“The National Dividend,” estimated for
1920-21 much larger figures. On the basis
of income-tax returns he figured that
£46,700,000 out of a total of £536,100,000 was
received by persons with an income of more
than £lOOO. No doubt a part of the in-
comes of those receiving £lOOO or less was
invested; but a very much larger proportion
of the other income would certainly go that
way. Of the 29£ millions which Sutcliffe
apportions to incomes in excess of £5OOO, it
can be fairly assumed that two-thirds of the
balance left after taxes have been paid will
be available for investment. “Suppose,”
F. C. Benham wrote in “The Prosperity of
Australia”—“suppose that all incomes over
£lOOO were confiscated for redistribution.
Such a course would be most unwise for
it would certainly have harmful reactions
upon the production and therefore upon the
national income of future years.” After cal-
culating that 47 millions belong to incomes
in excess of £lOOO, he added: “Of this, part
is taken by taxation. A further portion is
‘saved’ and provides for essential capital
needs; if not saved privately it would have
to be saved by the State in order not to
check development. Thus only 20 millions
at the outside, or about £3 10s. per head of
population, would have been available for a
redistribution.”
It can thus be fairly assumed that more
good comes to the country through the
production of incomes in excess of their
producers’ current requirements than would
■result if the total amount of the larger
incomes were divided over all producers of
income, large and small. In view, never-
theless, of the great need for developmental
capital in Australia, a matter worth con-
sideration is whether it would not be advis-
able for the taxing authorities to differenti-
ate between income consumed and income
invested for the further production of
national wealth. Already there is this
differentiation to a very limited extent:
some taxing authorities allow a deduction
of all money subscribed for certain mining
purposes. It seems to be quite as desirable
that money should be provided for the
establishment and extension of factories and
the promotion of other primary industries.
No doubt there are difficulties: a man who
buys Colonial Sugar or Bank of N. S.
Wales shares may be said to be only re-
motely interested in developing industries.
But he at least provides the means by
which the seller may do so. At any rate,
whether there are difficulties to be over-
come or not, large incomes ought to be
encouraged to forego expensive luxuries in
order to help on development; and at
present they get none.
THE NEW ERA IN CHINA.
Since February 1 China has had a more
liberal factory law than any in Australia. It
supplements statutes governing Labor unions,
conciliation and arbitration promulgated a
few months ago. Under the new regulations
the employment of children under 14 is
prohibited; nightwork, except for adult
males, is forbidden; the general working
day is fixed at eight hours, a holiday every
seventh day, a week’s holiday annually
after one year’s service and a month’s holi-
day after three years. Employers must give
30 days’ notice of dismissal to employees
of three years’ service, and female workers
are to be paid the same wages as men
for equal work. Eight weeks’ holiday on
full pay is obligatory for female workers
during childbirth. The safety provisions,
sanitary arrangements and protection to be
provided in noxious trades are as meticulous
as any in Western countries.
But at this point let me pause to warn
Australian workers against rushing to China
by the next boat. However much one would
like to see the Celestial toiler’s standard
of living raised to a point where it would
cease to menace the. standards of white
countries, one has to face the fact that
the Chinese lawmaker has ever shown a
remarkable capacity in the composition of
light fiction. If all the laws and decrees
promulgated by the present National Gov-
ernment were in operation, the Middle
Kingdom would now be the only existing
example of a Wellsian Utopia. Despite the
new law, Chinese children, even in the
environment of Shanghai, are still embark-
ing on an industrial career at the age of
eight and earlier. Girls with bound feet are
still being carried to the factory doors, 12
to the barrow, to stand for 14 hours a day
and seven days a week tending the spindles
of Chinese and Japanese cotton-mills; women
are still falling asleep at the end of. a long
night shift and being scalped through their
hair being caught in moving machinery.
Young expectant mothers are still knock-
ing off for as long as they dare and bringing
their offspring into the world in the more ox-
less hygienic surroundings of an adjacent
vacant allotment. One day in ten or two
days in a month are the only holidays for
the vast bulk of the industrial population,
except for the New Year carnival of indo-
lence. Lodging-houses in the working-class
districts still consist of rooms where 70
toilers are put to bed under one huge
blanket, with a hole cut in it for each of
the lodgers. Famine and Communist up-
heavals in the interior still provide the fac-
tory recruiting agent with an inexhaustible
supply of child apprentices indistinguishable
from slaves. There are a million appli-
cants for the job of any weakling who
falters for an instant in the fiei-ce struggle
for a bare subsistence.
The fact is that the lawmaking of China,
like the lawmaking of Russia, has been
handed over to theoi-ists, and if their ideas
were put into force they would completely
wreck industry—as indeed in their unadult-
erated form they did wreck industry and
almost evei-ything else in Russia. The
yellow worker is notoriously inefficient, and
the value of his production is not enough to
earn him even half of the statutory luxuries.
In addition, he is in competition with his
fellow-w-orker of Japan. Japanese Govern-
ments for 50 years have been trying to raise
the standard in that country, and their
success has been considex-able; yet it falls
far below what an Australian worker would
legard as even tolerable. A i-ecent i-eport
revealed that 10 and 12 hours a day were
normal in many factories, and that a lai-ge
proportion of the labor force was still being
recruited from the peasants, gills being
bought from their parents for a lump sum
and kept practically imprisoned in the
factories until they paid the debt in labor.
Most characteristically, therefore, the
Chinese Government has omitted to appoint
inspectors to see that the new law is re-
spected.
The new industrial era in China will most
likely follow the lines of the new era in
Russia. China, like Russia, is stone-poor
and needs machinery. The only way she
can save the money to get it is by working
hax-d and living on the smell of an oil-
rag. Her ancient philosophers—wise men—
would have advised her to do without the
machinery, but most of her present leaders
were educated in America.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wages, Prices and Jobs.
The working man has his leg pulled shame-
fully. For many years past, he has been
told, trades halls and Labor members have
toiled for him valiantly and without ceas-
ing, and have won tremendous victories for
him. When he remembers the wages he or
his father got and compares them with the
rate of to-day, he realises that great changes
have occurred, and the trades halls and the
-Labor members seem almost, as victorious
as they claim to have been. But this is a
case where things are not what they seem:
as a matter of hard fact, very little indeed
has been won in the matter of wages this
century.
Wickens (“Year-Book of Australia”) has
a most enlightening table for those who
care to study it. He shows that where
£B4B would be earned at full time in 1901
and £1076 in. 1913, retail prices advanced
in the same period from £BBO to £llO4. And
although wages increased nominally from
£1076 in 1913, the pre-war year, to £1972 in
1929, retail prices moved from £llO4 to
£1822. Now, on that showing there would
still be a very fair gain in wages over retail
prices; for while the former had increased
by 83 per cent, in 16 years, retail prices
had increased by only 67 per cent. But
there is another factor to be taken into
account —unemployment. The proportion
unemployed in 1913 was 53 per 1000; in
1929 it was 111 per 1000. Allowing, then,
for loss of time as reported by the unmns,
the gain in real wages in relation to prices
was no more than from 970 to 1009; that
is to say, 3 per cent.
So we see that, putting aside the matter
of hours worked, practically the same real
wage was earned in 1914 as in 1929: and there
is good ground for believing that very
little more was paid because very little
more could be paid. On that point some-
thing pretty definite can be got from
Queensland. The report of the Economic
Commission appointed by the Labor Gov-
ernment to inquire into the question of a
basic wage analysed the position between
1916 and 1924, both inclusive. In 1916 the
average wage was 60s. 4d., the value ot
production per worker £287 and 58 per 100 U


of workers were unemployed. From 60s. 4d.
in 1914 there was a steady rise in the
average wage to 965. Bd. in 1921, and there
was a steady rise also in the percentage un-
employed:—
Unemployed
Average Wage. per 1000.
1916 . . . . 60s. 4d. 58
1917 . . . . 655. sd. 70
1918 . . . . 695. 6d. 93
1919 . . . . 78s. 7d. 11l
1920 . . . . 91s. 6d. 133
1921 . . . . 965. Bd. 155
Then it was realised or partly realised that
something was wrong. The ca’ canny prac-
tices which had been so popular were
thrown overboard; production was speeded
up. Wages were cut very little; yet this
happened:—
Average Production Unemployed
Wage. per Worker. per 1000.
1921 .. 965. Bd. £338 155
1922 . . 935. lOd. 339 100
1923 .. 945. 2d. 370 71
1924 . . 945. lid. 424 64
Nothing could more clearly show the close
relationship between wages paid and em-
ployment offering; and nothing could show
more clearly either how an increase of pro-
duction means employment—not unemploy-
ment, as the working man is so often told.
Standard of living is not a matter of
wages paid: it is a matter of wages paid
and price level combined. Try to push it
beyond what- industry can stand, and
immediately there is unemployment to re-
duce the total earnings, and therefore the
possible purchases and the standard.
♦
A Solvency Party.
Every political movement which is not pre-
pared for a speedy end needs at least two
characteristics—a root principle and con-
tinuity of propaganda. An acceptable name
is also useful, though that doesn’t matter
so much. The Labor party has gone from
strength to strength for over 30 years be-
cause, apart from its attractive, not to say
lying, appellation, it has continuously propa-
gated a popular ideal—less work and more
pay at other people’s expense.
Freetrade, Liberalism and the rest faded
away because they revealed themselves
as essentially anti-Labor parties; and noth-
ing can live by anti-ism alone. Nationalism
began with everything in its favor. Then
it embarked on a record loan drunk, with
W. M. Hughes and his friends importing the
financial liquor, and began to die. Hughes,
with his usual perspicacity, diagnosed its
trouble long ago, and his Australian party
might have come to life if he hadn’t been
politically dead himself when he started it.
An opportunity now offers to propound a
political creed which would revive the
enthusiasm that Nationalism inspired for a
time. The name of the organisation might
be something like the Solvency party. Its
ideal—common honesty—would be easy to
argue and impossible to controvert. And it
would have the additional advantage of a
basic principle which has been continuously
advocated in this paper for a quarter of a
century—in fact, nothing but innate
modesty debars The Bulletin from sug-
gesting the C.O.D. party as a likely name.
Some conditions of success are that the
Nationalist, A.F.A., Riverina and other
bodies which are opposed to bilking credit-
ors, home and foreign, as a policy for the
Commonwealth shall merge their titles, in
one descriptive of the common objective,
and that the new body shall be deodorised
of the machine ramps which have given
Australian politics, Labor and anti-Labor,
such an appalling odor. The reported
arrangement that W. M. Hughes and
Walter Marks shall be pre-selected as a
condition of supporting the Lyons-Latham
coalition is enough to kill any reformist
party at birth. The whole objection to
pre-selection, which must go if the advocates
of honesty are not going to stultify them-
selves from the outset, is that it provides
Parliament with a steady supply of oppor-
tunists like Messrs. Hughes and Marks.
- -♦
Queensland in Search of a Second
Chamber.
Dear Bulletin, —The Queensland Govern-
ment proposes establishing a Second
Chamber in place of the one which its
Labor predecessors abolished in 1922. It
has every right to do so, for the people
gave a solid majority by State referendum
in favor of the two-House system, and the
Theodore Ministry, with that lofty con-
tempt for popular opinion which always
characterised it, did the exact opposite of
what the community commanded. The
public verdict still stands, but it is impos-
sible to restore exactly the old Leg. Council
and the old traditions, just as it is impos-
sible to raise Lazarus from the dead when
the original corpse has been lost. So it is-
necessary to think out a new arrangement.
A simple idea is that the two Houses
should be equal, neither being Upper nor
Lower. One might be Lower in intelli-
gence and decency of language and behavior
(the kind of Chamber that the Lang variety
of politician frequents naturally would be
Lower, and occasionally Lowest), but the
adjectives are invidious. The bodies might
be equal in numbers, in power, in salary and
in duration of life. But if one was elected
by constituencies as at present and the
other by the whole people voting as one
constituency, as is the case with each State
in the Federal Senate, they would, be suffici-
ently distinct to explain their existence.
Then it would be reasonable that the
Premier and his principal colleagues should
be always chosen from the Upper House
(to use the old name), so that the Lang of
the hour would represent all the people,
instead of a shabby, hole-and-corner electo-
rate of petty local interests and cliques and
prejudices. As matters stand a politician
may represent a moderate majority in a
numerically small and carefully gerrymand-
ered constituency, yet he may rule the
State with an iron hand and an iron jaw by
his capacity for manipulating the caucus
and the Labor conference. A Chamber
which had no constituencies, gerrymandered
or otherwise, except the people at large
would be a very different proposition.
With a Parliament as described the prob-
lem of amendment of the Constitution
would be simplified out of all knowledge.
There might arise a feeling that a single
Chamber was enough after all, the survivor
being the new one. Or it might be
proposed to purify the voters’ list by dis-
qualifying people aged less than 25 without
at least one receipt for payment of income
tax; also people who had been criminally
convicted, trade-union secretaries (as not
being free agents but subject to Trades
Hall domination), illiterates and advocates
of debt repudiation. Matters like these
might be decided by a joint sitting of the
Houses, instead of by a pandemonium, or
a deadlock and a double dissolution, or by
a Premier howling at the Governor’s door
for a batch of new nominees, the same being
his personal friends. In fact, the joint
sitting might be used as a means for the
settlement of all serious differences, being
shorter, cheaper and more satisfactory than
the referendum.—Yours etc., Sol Malaprop.
«
Devaluation.
The suggestion that we should reduce the
value of our pound to 15s. or so is heard
oftener now; the latest expounder of the
gospel is J. L. K. Gifford, M.A., of Bris-
bane.
There was a very considerable opinion in
England in favor of devaluation in the early
’twenties, when prices fell so smashingly
and there was widespread unemployment.
During that period the £ English was almost
as depreciated in relation to the dollar as
the £ Australian is now in relation to the £
English: it is not easy for us, who think
we have been struck by unprecedented dis-
aster, to believe that in November, 1920,
the £ English was 29.60 per cent, under par:
that is to say, in terms of gold it was worth
only $3.43 instead of $4.86. The Cunliffe
Committee on Currency recommended the
rehabilitation of the £ to its pre-war value
on a gold basis; and because it was realised
that this would involve a heavy fall in
prices there was a wide opposition to the
proposal. The manufacturing interests were
on the whole in favor of devaluation. Sir
Peter Hylands, chairman of the Federation
of British Industries, said in October, 1921:
“I believe there has been a general modifica-
tion of opinion, and in many quarters it is
now practically held that the stabilisation
of our currency at its present value
[£= 16s. 2d.] would be all that would be
required to meet the necessities of trade.”
The Federation sought indeed a new com-
mittee on currency; but the Chancellor of
the Exchequer rejected the proposal.
Devaluation is therefore no new plan of
salvation even in Britain, where it was
thoroughly discussed —and rejected. And
the rejection was at a time when the £
English was almost as heavily depreciated
as the £ Australian is now. What the rejec-
tion meant was thoroughly well understood.
It meant deflation, the lowering of prices;
and falling prices always mean unemploy-
ment —wherefore the rejoicings in England
over the recently-reported check in the fall
of the wholesale index-number. That was
nevertheless accepted as the lesser of two
evils. It was argued that Britain would
be making a fatal confession of poverty if it
permanently reduced the gold contents of
the sovereign. Yet Britain would gain more
from devaluing the £ English than Aus-
tralia could from devaluing the £ Aus-
tralian; for no matter what Australia may
do to its own £, the £ it has undertaken
to pay its foreign creditors will remain the
same.
Devaluation is, in short, a policy of
despair; and there is no ground for despair
in Australia. On the contrary, there is no
country in the world capable of such a
quick recovery. The woolgrower, down and
almost out to-day, may be affluent within
seven years. The bulk of his working capital
is in his flock, and that may double itself
within two years. So the wheat-farmer
cultivating land worth no more than £6 an
acre may take, and in thousands of instances
has taken, a single crop worth more than
that.
In any case, even the European advocates
of devaluation admitted that it alone would
do little or nothing for a country. E. M. H.
Lloyd, whose book “Stabilisation” was an
earnest protest against deflation, warned
nations against inflation also, and especially
against such devices as Mr. Theodore’s
“fiduciary” issue. “The chief cause” of
their troubles, he says, is “their constant
recourse to the printing-press to cover bud-
get deficits.” Then: —
The first condition of any plan of currency reform
is reform of public finance. A programme must be
laid down that will ensure a progressive decrease of
expenditure and increase of taxation.
And then, apparently talking directly to
the Scujlidores, though nearly 10 years be-
fore their arrival:—
So long as any Government is free to borrow
without limit from its Central Bank in order to cover
budget deficits, there is no hope of checking currency
inflation.
This, let us repeat, is the last word, not of
one of Mr. Theodore’s friends, “the banks,”
or of Mr. Lang’s “great financial interests,”
but of the chief, English antagonist of
deflation, and a foremost advocate of that
stabilisation in which these two gentlemen
profess to be staunch believers.
♦—
Portugal, Australia and Holland.
Dear Bulletin, — I was interested to read
“Feng-Shui’s” paragraph (B. 22/4/’3l), par-
ticularly the view expressed therein that
a case presents itself for the acquisition of
the Portuguese portion of Timor, either
through British purchase or by means of a
friendly arrangement via the League of
Nations. With regard to the latter sugges-
tion, I confess that in the absence of argu-
ments —beyond the fact that British owner-
ship of Timor would be extremely useful to
Imperial interests—the train, of thought of
your distinguished contributor is difficult
to follow. Remains the question of British
purchase. As to this it is as well if no false
hopes are entertained, because of an agree-
ment dated July 1, 1893, between Holland
and Portugal.
In virtue of that agreement both coun-
tries, in case of either party wishing to cede
its territories or sovereign rights in the
Archipelago of Timor and Solor, are under
contractual obligation to extend to one
another the right of preference on conditions
similar or equivalent as compared with
offers from other nations.
I cannot subscribe to the view that Dutch
monopolists’ ideals are responsible either
for the absence of the British flag in Timor
or the inability of Australian trade to obtain
a footing in the East. The open door and
liberal policy strictly and consistently
adhered to by the Netherlands Govern-
ments for decades past is a complete answer
to any such suggestion. Australia does
already a considerable trade in the Dutch
East Indies (its first and best market for
flour, its second-best market for butter),
and in the exportation of foodstuffs has
made great strides,- often to the detriment,
of similar Dutch exports. This has been
possible owing to the absence of preferen-
tial tariff treatment in favor of the Mother-
land.
If Australia’s trade—admittedly capable
of expansion—is not greater at present, no
blame can be laid at our doors. More-
over, the in some respects privileged posi-
tion of the K.P.M. line bears favorable
comparison with the exclusion of foreign
shipping from the Australian coastal trade.
—Yours, etc., P. E. Teppema, Consul-Gen-
eral.
♦
Lfegislatio*ri for Bad Law.
There is this to be said for N.S.W.’s latest
Law Reform Bill: it is consistent, regarded
as a Trades Hall product. The scaling-
down of counsel’s fees is the master pro-
vision. This scheme to bring the good legal
worker back to the ,bad one is going to have
some disastrous effects if the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment is misguided enough to adopt it.
A successful advocate has to work extra-
ordinarily hard under the British legal sys-
tem, which, broadly, is ours. When Lord
Reading was Rufus Isaacs. K.C., and quali-
fying for the Lord Chief Justiceship, his
hours were from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. at home,
and from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in court, with
consultations afterwards, and further work
at home on five nights a week. Such men
expect big fees, and if they are debarred
from earning them in one profession they
will do it at another.
“In England,” boasted a great Judge,
recently in the House of Lords, “justice
has never been cheap.” The necessitous can
get it for nothing, as they can here, but
it is not to be had at bargain rates by
anyone. It is the reason why England has
for many years supplied a brand of justice
which is the admiration of the world. Cheap
lawyers eventually mean cheap Judges, and
cheap Judges mean bought Judges. The
system can be seen in operation in the
U.S.A., where any Dago gangster who is
prepared to pay the price can buy his local
Judge and defy the efforts of the citizens to
check his activities.
N. S. Wales has had satisfactory results,
on the whole, from the British legal system,
which is based on the assumption that the
law will only get good men by paying for
them. It will be a bad day for the poor—
and, in fact, for all outside the plutocratic
class—when N. S. Wales adopts the Ameri-
can arrangement of underpaid advocates,
and its corollary, underpaid Judges.
• ♦
Mystery.
“J.D.”: The Vic. branch of the Society of
Australian Authors carried a resolution the
other day on the lines of one which had
already been adopted by the N. S. Wales
branch:—
The society views with alarm and indignation the
persistent dumping in Australia of “remainders” and
second-hand: copies of inferior American periodicals, and
entreats the Commonwealth Government to afford to
the authors and publishers of Australia the protective
principles already put into practice on behalf of
companion Australian industries.
A glance at the stock of almost any
newsagent in the Commonwealth will ex-
plain the point of view. Cheap murder and
crime magazines; magazines composed of
“snappy” stories, with nude females waving
bottles on the covers; magazines devoted
to providing Hollywood with ballyhoo; and
a miscellaneous assortment of comics, fash-
ion-plate and ordinary story-article week-
lies, mostly second-hand, crowd the shelves.
It is the stale journalistic garbage of the
English-speaking world, dumped here after
it has become unsaleable elsewhere. It
used to be possible to buy English and
American reviews over the counter in Aus-
tralia, but that day has passed. The good
literary money has been driven out by
the bad.
It is a remarkable fact that Labor Gov-
ernments give plutocratic America prefer-
ential treatment in almost everything. This
is one of the U.S.A.’s best film markets.
Lang pays his American debts and bilks
England, though his basic wage depends in
the last resort on the British Navy. And
we let in tons of American-published rub-
bish, though by barring it, or even putting
an adequate duty on it, our bookbinders,
printers and stereotypers would be given
employment, and local paper and linen
factories encouraged. What on earth’s the
explanation?
• ♦
One Way to Relieve Unemployment.
In the N.S.W. coastal areas, north of
Sydney especially, there is abundance of
land suitable for dairy-farming, but only a
comparatively small proportion of it is
being used. * Production is not increasing
even in ratio with the requirements of the
domestic market. In 1922 exports of butter
and cheese were valued at £2,353,645; in
1929-30 the return was only £1,442,010.
Maoriland, which is able to devote to dairy-
ing less than half the area of land available
in N. S. Wales, increased her butter and
cheese exports in that period from
£13,728,404 to £20,245,490.
One of the causes of the backwardness
of the industry in N. S. Wales is the in-
ability of a multitude of small producers
to extend their operations. There is a con-
nection between these facts and the prob-
lem of unemployment. The land that might
be added to the State’s dairying area is
mostly scrub country, which must be cleared
before it can be occupied. The job of bush-
falling is not one to which the city-born
unemployed could be set, but there is in
Sydney to-day a regular army of men from
the country, attracted in recent years by the
bright lights. Many of these are dole-recipi-
ents or employed in sand-shifting operations
of dubious value. To connect them with
the work for which they are best suited isn’t
impossible. As It. V. Dulhunty told a pre-
vious Ministry, the transfer can be effected
by a system of cheap long-term loans to
dairy-farmers, safeguarded by conditions
which make the employment of labor im-
perative.
Agriculture Minister Thorby, who had
£200,000 at his disposal for rural loans, pro-
posed to lend it out on a four-years’ term at
5 per cent. There were few nibbles at that
bait, but if a fair portion of the receipts from
the ls.-in-the-£ tax on wages were lent at
2| per cent., repayable in 25 years, three very
desirable things would be likely to happen.
The dairying area would expand and the
export trade would be revived; the pres-
sure on the city employment market would
be relieved, and the bread the State cast
upon the waters would be returned to it
after many days—which is more than can
be expected of the bread distributed by way
of doles.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE—HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. '.. 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 13
‘•WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 17
SUNDRY SHOWS 18
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 19
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. ..27
SERIAL—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole . . 28, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) 30, 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 32
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. .. 32, 34
SHADOW SHOWS 35
SAID BEFORE —Drawings by Phil May, “Hop”
and Hemer Egersdorfer .. . . .. 36
TWO COMPLETE STORIES—
“CABBAGE FOR TEA,” by Margaret Fane
and Hilary Lofting . . .. . . 37, 38
“THE PUFFICK GENTLEMAN,” by Harold
Mercer .. . . .. 38
VERSE —By Hugh McCrae, Elisabeth Richmond,
Roderic Quinn .. .. .. 5, 38


#1
k- : :
The Australian Provincial
Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912.
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman),
Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING,
Dr C A THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD, J. R. KIRK,
Esq., M.B.E. (New Zealand).
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED
£2,500,000
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
<ll Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (2) In the event of total disablement for life all future
nremiums will be paid by the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. (3)
Hosnital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and private nospitals,
varvin- in amount according to the sum assured, and no deduction made from policy or bonuses,
(ii Tn the* event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be
naid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately. (5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT, all sick-
ness and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H E BIDEN, Secretary. GEO- BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
Patents.
EGG CARTONS.
'"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 13503/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO MECHANICAL STOKERS.
■“THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 19850/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for 'the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney.
COAL STOKER.
HTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 12616/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to .make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and
Barrack Streets, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN METHOD AND
MEANS FOR FORMING LIGHT STRIPS
FOR MOTION PICTURE FILM
PRINTERS.
'"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 19747/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassei
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York anti
Barrack Streets, Sydney. ____
IMPROVEMENTS IN PHOTOGRAPHIC
FILM PRINTERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No 19746/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, us
and vend the invention within the common-
wealth of Australia Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassei
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York ana
Barrack Streets, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The A.W.U. bosses have decided that they
will have nothing to do with the Lang
“plan” or the Lang-Garden party executive,
and some of them are trying to stir up a
Caucus revolt against the wrecker of the
Savings Bank. Some of the country mem-
bers hate Lang like poison, but to come out
definitely against him means expulsion (Lang
is invested with that power), and may mean
a general election; and neither prospect
appeals. There is also the restraining
memory of what happened to Loughlin and
Mutch when they tried to shift Lang, rely-
ing on A.W.U. support. So the dissatisfied
section is moving with extreme caution,
meanwhile hoping that Lang will fall sud-
denly and with a gratifying thud —a fate
often reserved for tenth-rate dictators when
the people find them out.
Sydney “Sun” reports that “a definite
break lias developed
in the State A.L.P.
Caucus,” but pre-
dicts that “the
Lang Ministers will
li an g together.”
Many Savings Bank
depositors would be
content to see them
hang separately.
What next?
N.S.W. Speaker Burke cut a sorry figure
over his fixing of Anzac Day for the Annan-
dale by-election, necessitated by the bank-
ruptcy of Stuart-Robertson. He must have
realised that he had thereby outraged public
sentiment, for he tried to get the date altered ;
“unfortunately, the Crown Law Department
informed me that it was impossible.”. The
gentleman turned round and sought to justify
his original offence by the amazing plea that
“electing a representative to the Parliament
of the country is a sacred duty,” and there-
fore not out of place on a day set apart
for keeping green the memories of Australia s
heroes. Giving old Stuart-Robertson has
job back a sacred duty!
The Federal Income Tax Assessment Act
is being “amended” once more, the notion
this time being to reduce civil-service salaries
that have not been reduced already, and to
tax loan interest not specified as tax-free
(loans in the tax-free category amount to
£90,000,000, roughly one-fifth of the whole)
at the rate of 3s. 6d. in the pound, with
rebates. Salaries could be reduced without
adding to the complexities of the income tax,
but the politicians seem to delight in making
that impost more baffling to the public. They
delight still more in smiting thrifty people
who are no longer able to. work. Those who
thought to provide for their old age by invest-
ing their all in Government securities are,
if this measure goes through, to be Taxed
£3O 18s. 9d. on £250, £26 ss. on £3OO and
£7O on £4OO. McShortodds declaring an
“earned” income of £3OO from his book will
pay nothing. It is characteristic of the poli-
ticians’ way of doing things that this
interest-taxing bill should precede proposals
for a £12,000,000 loan.
Britain took its decennial census on Satur-
day, and nearly every country in the world,
even Russia, is arranging for a census this
year The outstanding exception is Aus-
tralia; the Scullidores thought it would be
better to “save” the money for pick-and-
,shovel jobs. To count the people at regular
intervals and collect pertinent information
about them is a duty which a country owes
to itself and the world; and in the process
of doing in the 31st year of the Common-
wealth what was done in its first, eleventh
and twenty-first years useful work would
have been given to heaps of unemployed pro-
fessional men and clerks, women included.
But even this aspect failed to appeal to the
Government, which has a pick-and-shovel
complex.
The trench-rents lie, with which rogues
deceived fools when Niemeyer was here, lias
been trotted out once more by supporters of
the N. S. Swindle Government. It has been
denied by the British Government and the
French Consul-General, and “Texas” Green,
then Minister of Defence, said in the House
of Reps, on Dec. 3 that “the Imperial Gov-
ernment accepted full financial liability for
accommodation and barrack stores required
by all Dominion forces
abroad ; Australia did not
pay for billets, hutments,
barracks, hospitals or for
any accommodation, in-
cluding trenches, utilised
by the A.I.F. in France.”
Naturally Green did not
foresee that the lie lie
thus nailed would be used
again by ruffians hard put
to it to find excuses for
swindling their own kith
and kin.
Ballarat is saying that
Dave McGrath, who ex-
cept for a few months in
1919-20 lias been its
Federal member since
1913, is as good as dead
politically. When he
threw in his lot with the
Lyons gro u p letters
addressed to him were re-
turned from the Trades
Hall marked “unknown,”
and his portrait in the
Ballarat Chambers was
turned to the wall. The
local branch of the All
for Australia League js
not keen on him. The
Nats. want ex-Mayor
Bolster, and F. L. Edmunds, a trier in 1929,
would like to have another shot. The Coun-
try party is organising actively, being confi-
dent that it can win the seat.
The chairman of the Commonwealth Bank
occupied 17 inches of print in telling Theodore
that the Federal Government's direct liabili-
ties to the institution were £51,495,000,
having grown by £21,000,000 in three
months, and that all sorts of public bodies
in Australia owed the bank, directly and
indirectly, £130,295,000. He explained that
it was impossible to go on piling up trouble
at this rate. Theodore filled 27 inches
of print, not in offering any money, but in
stating that this remonstrance on the chair-
man’s part was an attempt to assume control
of national finance, and wasn’t contemplated
by the Constitution. The position might
have been better, and couldn’t have been
worse, if Theodore had simply written that
the bank’s letter was to hand, and that he
was much obliged, and would give it his best
attention.
The pressman who got hold of the Scullin-
Fenton-Lyons cables, the publication of
which showed the Prime Minister in a very
sorry light, has been excluded from the
precincts of the House by order of the
Speaker. That functionary’s action was
challenged, and he had to come to the Gov-
ernment’s rescue with his casting vote. When
Parliament sees fit to punish newspapermen
its attitude is more likely to be attributed to
the chagrin of those whose corns have been
trodden on than to any abstract regard for
STICKLER FOR THE DIGNITY OF PARLIAMENT:
“Published the truth, did yer? Then
get out and stay out!”
its dignity. Mostly it hits itself over its
own shoulders, as the early Christians did,
while the country grins.
It is refreshing to turn from the criminal
blunders of politicians to the achievements
of Kingsford Smith. When the pioneer
mail ’plane from Britain crashed in Timor,
everyone knew whom to send for. In his old
Southern Cross he hopped the Timor Sea
in half a day, and was back in Darwin with
the salvaged mail within 34 hours, this being
only the prelude to a flight to Rangoon to
keep the mail service going according to
plan. If we only had a politician half as
bold and efficient as this wonderful Queens-
lander, greatest of all airmen !
THE USURPER.
“Senor Ayala, the Spanish Ambassador in London, attributes
the revolution in Spain to the influence of the pictures.” Cable.
Although N. S. Wales has about 40,000
clerks, barely 5 per cent, are members of
the union which is supposed to speak for
them. There are almost as many politicians,
present, past and would-be, as real clerks.
Actually 36 people attended the meeting
called to decide whether the union was for
the Federal or the State f»abor executive,
for Scullin’s policy or Lang’s, the chief repre-
sentation being from the Sydney Labor Coun-
cil office (which employs a large staff) and
other places where Garden is boss. These
people were advised by the secretary, himself
a Scullinite, to declare for the rival faction
rather than “risk victimisation in their jobs.”
So on the strength of about a score of votes
Lang may boast in his fashion that the
clerks of N. S. Wales are with him.
Melbourne holds the palm for weird
municipal anomalies. The Victoria-street
bridge has long been in need of repair.
Recently engineers of the Richmond, Kew,
Collingwood and Hawthorn councils, which
share the responsibility, inspected the
structure, but came to different opinions as
to what was to be done about it. Two coun-
cils favor a speed limit of 8 m.p.h. for traffic
and a weight maximum of 10 tons, and two
consider this precaution hopelessly in-
adequate. In the absence of an over-riding
authority the public continues to use the
structure according to its own merry fashion.
A false sense of security has been given to
drivers of heavy lorries, who see trams
which weigh 30 tons still running across the
causeway. As a matter of fact, the trams use
a portion of the structure which was speci-
ally strengthened for the purpose. The south
side remains as it was 40 years ago.
With Alfonso XIII. retired from busi-
ness, European countries that stick to here-
ditary monarchies can now be numbered on
the fingers—Britain, Italy, Denmark, Norway,
Sweden. Yugo-Slavia, Bulgaria, Rumania,
Holland and Belgium. Somehow. kingship
lingers longest and looks likely to die hardest
in insular and peninsular countries than in
any other. The Scandinavian peninsula
and Denmark, which juts out from the con-
tinent to meet it, have always held fast to
hereditary rulers. In the Balkan peninsula
despite the defection of Greece and the scrap
of Turkey that remains in Europe, there’is
still a bunch of kings left. But the body
of Europe, as opposed to the limbs and
sticking-out projections, . has discarded
crown and courts for Presidents.
North Queensland will acquire over 1000
new farms if the proposals of the local
bodies in the Oairns-Innisfail region are
given effect to. Westward of Innisfail lie
heavily-timbered Crown lands, 365,000 acres
in area. The soil is fertile, the rainfall is 80in.
a year, and the country is considered suit-
able for dairying, sugar-cane, bananas, pine-
apples and citrus fruits. The district has
hydro-electric power potentialities, and can
be given access to three ports. To road and
clear the most promising parts, to' establish
1865 farms, as was first suggested, and give
the settlers a start, would cost £3,000,000.
Too big a hunk to chew at one bite, but a
modified proposal, involving the establish-
ment of 1000 farms, is being put forward,
and a league has been formed to push it.
Two Ma State Agents-General, Davy Hall
and Cocks, had short shrift when the party
which appointed them was defeated by the
one of which Lang is so shining an ornament.
The reflection, if he ever dwells on it, must
be an uncomfortable one for Willis, who is
on his way to Britain to endeavor to justify
the Lang “plan.” One of the first needs
of whatever Government succeeds Lang’s will
be an Agent-General to stigmatise default as
a thing abhorrent to all decent Australians.
Willis, Lang’s most trusted lieutenant, can
hardly turn round and fit into the new role
convincingly. A conversion like that, at an
hour’s notice, would have taxed even Yes-No
Reid’s powers.
Lang, sending a message to the “S. M.
Herald” on its 100th birthday, struck the
attitude of a staggered monstrosity standing
eloquently amid the ruins of civilisation, and
stated his case thus:—
Whilst the progress of scientific achievement is
entirely beneficent in its sweep to destroy the
enemies of man, yet the political terrorism which
found its most raucous, most malignant expression
in the World War indicates that the evil of the
duality of civilisation is seen in the brake upon
the wheels of progress in the despair, the horror that
counterbalances the triumph of achievement
When we realise that religion, science, art, are the
vehicles to raise us to the mountain peaks that tower
above the slough of despond, the morass of false-
hood, the quagmire of obsolete formulae, then we
will have achieved the objective of creation.
There is inspiration for a sculptor in the
idea of Lang driving uphill in three vehicles
(religion, science and art) to the top of the
peaks (number and height not stated) that
look down on three undrained allotments (a
slough, a morass and a quagmire). Great
thoughts such as these elevate one to . in-
verted subterranean pinnacles of imagina-
tion, with tickets on them stating that this
desirable building site is available.
“Oxmead” : I can’t see much point in this
intensive cursing of politicians —all poli-
ticians, irfespective of brand—that goes up
from every side. Unless wc are prepared
to revert to hereditary monarchs or dictator-
ships, we’ve got to have them. Even if we
could scrap the present deplorable sets, which
have made such a mess of everything in Aus-
tralia, along with their labels and their tradi-
tions and their machines, it would simply mean
“Does the eagle return to its perch and ask to be
chained by the other leg? What is the fate of the
wolf wounded in the pack?” -Mr. J. M. Gabb,
justifying his independence.
JOEL MOSES: “I can’t quite decide whether
I’m one thing or the other. P’r’aps
I’m a bit of both!”
their replacement by a fresh lot of Tweedle-
dums and Tweedledees. It is the same with
parties; you can’t get away from them, how-
ever much you alter their names and their
objectives. True, the French and German sys-
tem, with eight or ten parties which are always
making new alliances and combinations, may
be better than the British one, which allows
of only two or three. At all events it gives
the electors a far better chance of getting
their precise political views reflected in their
choice of representatives. But it doesn’t
make for stability of government.
“Griffith Moses”: The second Spanish
republic won’t last long, one reason being
that the push at Moscow has brought the
word “republic” into unmerited stench and
discredit. The eternal meddlers have
attempted in their own clumsy and bullying
way to take charge of . things in Hungary
(which they drenched with blood for a brief
season), in Poland, Finland, Italy and
China, and they have done some revolution-
ary interference in India and Egypt. Also
they offered an encouraging hand to the Lang
crowd of N.S.W., which took it and has
had no luck since. The Moscow push urges
all its clients to support the Spanish repub-
lic, and identify themselves with it, which
is bad, and identify it with them, which is
worse. Spain had a previous republic, but
it only lasted two years, whereupon the
Bourbons came back, as they will probably
do again.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBIE'S INKS”
“Phil Ately” : For some mysterious reason
the postage-stamps that could be best spared
linger the longest in circulation; the
kangaroo sprawled across the map of Aus-
tralia is an atrocity that still persists in the
denominations above sixpence. This was the
long-deceased Charley Frazer’s contribution
to Australian nationalism when he was
P.M.G. in the second Fisher Ministry.
Charley had a deep distrust of conventional
artists and designers, and an aversion to
hackneyed kings’ heads. The storm of pro-
test and condemnation that greeted the map-
bestriding Too might have impelled some
Ministers to have it withdrawn, or at all
events to see that the stamp never got
into a second edition; but Frazer, who had
picked the design out of some dozens sub-
mitted to him, was genuinely proud of the
SUCH A CARELESS GENERATION!
MOTHER: “Bennie, why were you kept in at school to-day?”
BENNIE: “Oh, just because I didn’t know where the Azores were!”
MOTHER: “Well, why don’t you remember where you put things?”
issue and attributed the disparagement to
professional jealousy. He must have had
them printed in wanton millions, too, for I
have the assurance of a post-officer that it
will be years before they are exhausted.
* $ * *
“Old Bailey”: Kuerten, the German “Jack
the Ripper,” the recital of whose murderous
doings has been horrifying Europe, struck the
presiding Judge as a dual personality, “a
person inclined to crime by heredity, yet
naturally loving beauty.” Which sets one
thinking of one of Australia’s compulsory
immigrants in the early days, Wainwright the
poisoner. Wainwright was such a lover of
beauty that he advanced, as justification for
the killing of a young woman, the thickness
of her ankles, which jarred on his aesthetic
sense.
* * * #
“Lao-dah”: Harry Darby, the New Guinea
mineowner who killed a rickshaw coolie in
Madras, got off with a fine of 1000 rupees
for a “rash and negligent act.” His action
in playfully threatening the coolie
because he thought the fare de-
manded was exorbitant is typical
of the attitude of the white man
towards the unfortunate race of
rickshaw runners. After being
hauled about by a two-legged pony
who does not know the European
name of a single hotel or street in
his native city, and who has to be
directed to round a corner much
as an animal might be, the
visitor is apt to regard his
hire as scarcely human ; and
residence makes no difference
in many cases. The first
rickshaw puller I ever hired
in Singapore took me to a
friend’s bungalow. There
was the usual argument in
bad Malay about the fare,
which my host settled by
fetching his rifle, throwing
20 cents into the carriage and
firing a blank cartridge. The
coolie disappeared in record
time. Missionaries become as
callous as anybody to this
particular brand of fellow-
creature. I have often seen
a fat man and his wife
being towed to church
by a bag of bones who
would move an
S.P.C.A. inspector to
immediate action if he
weren’t merely a
human being.
* *
“X.S.”: The country
provides poetic in-
spiration for the city
rhymester only. A
woman witness in a
divorce action in Mel-
bourne, asked when a
certain event occurred,
replied that it was in the spring. Pressed to
define the term, she seemed at a loss, and
Judge Wasley attempted to assist her by
suggesting that it was the season when a
young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts
of love. “I don’t know about that,” said
the sturdy countrywoman. “All I know
about the spring is that there is lots of
grass and lots more milking to do.”
* * *
“Hamer”: Said the garbage man: “Two
blokes was put off last week at the depot
an’ a cart was laid up. People aren’t stackin’
up the rubbish they useter. You never find
any bottles in the tins now, an’ you dbn’t
get as much paper. Why, even empty tins
is running short; people ’ave found that
there’s blokes ’oo’ll buy waste tin in bulk,
an’ they’re saving ’em up. There was always
good salvage in a day’s round, once: all me
curtains an’ blinds at ’ome came out of the
garbage-tin, an’ you wouldn’t think it to
look at ’em. But people aren’t throwin’
away like they useter.” In a leisurely way
he moved off leaving me with a new angle
on the depression.
:S: ❖ * #
“Eureka”: At Long Bay, while curious
crowds gazed at the breaking-up Malabar,
I heard a man telling a group of listeners
the tale of the wreck of the Hereward on
Maroubra Beach. Pie made it a stirring story
of close calls, recounting ho w he saved a young-
woman and what the captain said to him.
The audience wasn’t critical; it didn’t seem
to strike any of them that he couldn’t have
been born when the H'ereward was wrecked.
In a couple of years’ time I can picture little
shops at Long Bay selling ash-trays and
other souvenirs made from what was once
the Malabar. At Fden they still sell articles
“made from the timber of the Ly-ee-moon,”
though I question if much of that timber
was even a seedling when the vessel was
wrecked.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: One Dr. Rowe has been, charg-
ing Mystic Mora at Melbourne Tivoli with
electricity at such a high potential that
sparks leap across an air gap of perhaps two
inches to the noses of volunteers from the
audience. I wonder if the worthy enter-
tainer realises all the possibilities latent in
the performance. To create such a spark
a very high voltage must be used —probably
sufficient to electrocute a person in certain
circumstances. Provided all the parties to
the experiment were very highly insulated,
the current traversing the lady’s body would
be small and innocuous, even at a big poten-
tial, but a little bit of damp might change
the whole electrical situation. I have seen
some remarkable phenomena produced in a
SLIMMING MADE EASY.
THE BEGGAR: “Lady, can you spring us a bob? I ain’t ’ad a feed
since day before yestiay.”
THE TOO-WELL-FED LADY: "I wish I knew how you did it. If I
go without a single meal I’m just ravenous.”
telegraph office, where the insulation of the
instruments was supposed to be well-nigh
perfect, solely due to invisible moisture in
the atmosphere.
* * * *
“Australia Fair” : To anyone, who doubts
the wholesomeness of the White Australia
doctrine, a glimpse at Darwin may be recom-
mended. Recent newspaper disclosures in-
elude the
“romance” of
an Australian
boy brought
up for 13
years in a
Chinese home,
and an item
about a lubra
rearing an
a b a n d o ned
Greek baby.
In -Darwin
hotels I have
seen a bare-
footed Sydney
girl swilling
out a big kit-
ch e n for a
Chinese cook
during his
afternoon
hours off, and
a waitress, a
new arrival
from Perth,
insulted at the
table by the
drunken Fili-
pino captain
of a coalboat.
Although the
dining - room
was filled with
white - coated
o fli c i a 1 s no-
tliing was
done except
that the pro-
prietress en-
tered and sat
down to pre-
vent a repeti-
tion of the offence. The Filipinos, cap-
tain and crew, continued to drink there.
Every boat-day white wharfies struggle up
and down in blazing heat with heavy cases on
their shoulders, while Chinese taxi-drivers —
Australians by right of birth—fly round the
beauty spots with visiting tourists.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mudurup”: Some people claim that the
“West Australian” is within a few days
of the age of the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
which kept its centenary on April 18. It is
a fact that on April 25, 1831, the Swan
River Settlement got its first budget of
printed news per medium of a publication
bearing the elongated title of the “Fremantle
Observer, Perth Gazette and West Austra-
lian Chronicle,” produced on a second-hand
printing press imported from Hobart. But
the days of this pioneer newspaper were
short and full of trouble, and the press had
to be spirited away into the bush to dodge
creditors before the venture petered out. The
present “West Australian,” however, is not
very much younger than the “S.M.H.”; it
traces its pedigree back to the “Perth
Gazette and West Australian Journal,”
established early in 1833.
* * * *
“Bangemall” : They certainly look a trifle
dreary in their isolation, those specks of
settlements for railway workers along the
Trans, line (B. 22/4/’3l) —corrugated-iron
hamlets bearing names like Cook and Barton.
At one or two crushed-looking aborigines,
offering boomerangs and such-like things for
sale, make a bid for the attention of the
traveller. The vendors are dismally unim-
pressive exhibits of their race, and one recalls
that the great-hearted Daisy Bates, who lived
and worked for years in those parts, had a
good deal to say about the natives’ addicted-
ness to infanticide and cannibalism. Never-
theless, I suppose existence has its compen-
sations for the scattered white communities
along the line; for one tiling, the children
look uncommonly healthy and vigorous. And
in these days of wireless nobody is cut
off for long from any news he wants.
At a station in the very middle of the Nul-
larbor Plain two residents were arguing so
loudly and briskly that I couldn’t help over-
hearing the subject of controversy. It
was the Doncaster Handicap, to be run in
Sydney next day.
* :|: sic *
“Don Carlos”: Alfonso XIII. that was
proposes to be known as the Duke of Toledo,
although it remains to be seen whether the
European press will humor him. The Court
Circulars, in the countries where such still
exist, always turn a blind eye to the misfor-
tunes of outside royalties; lienee Manoel of
Portugal, though he was bumped out of liis
own country 25 years before liis brother of
Spain, is still King Manoel when his move-
ments are chronicled in this particular section
of the press. But to most people Alfonso will
remain an ex-king, until or unless he can
manage to climb back to kingship. He can
hardly be called a Pretender when there is
no longer a throne left for him to pretend
to. In his own reign there was a legitimate
Pretender (if such a phrase is permissible)
to the Spanish throne, but what becomes of
him in the new mix-up is not altogether
clear. Presumably his interest sinks to the
level of a second mortgage on a property
of doubtful value.
% # *
“Nakhoda”: England-Australia fliers con-
tinue to enlarge our geographical knowledge.
Alor Star, where the mail ’plane City of
Cairo landed on the voyage that ended in a
crash in Timor, is the capital of Kedah, a
native Malay State which has a sort of con-
nection with Australia, since it, was Captain
Light, father of the designer of Adelaide,
who brought it into the ambit of the Empire.
At the beginning of the last century Light
saw the immense importance of the island
of Penang in the scheme of communications
of the East India Company. Penang be-
longed to the Sultan of Kedah. Light suc-
ceeded in bamboozling the decrepit potentate
into ceding a tiny fragment of liis property,
and British enterprise soon made it more
valuable than all the rest of the Sultan’s
possessions. When the rubber boom came
Kedah began to share in Penang’s prosperity,
and it is now a fine principality where the
native rajahs are demonstrating that the im-
practicable Malay can become an excellent
civil servant. A railway connects the.
province with Bangkok. The present ruler
of Kedah is Sultan Sir Abdul Hamid
Halim Shah, K.C.M.G., but he never did
much with his country until English and
Australian rubber-planters with names like
John Smith came and conquered the jungle.
THEY WOULD COME IN TIME.
“Freddy’s not like most husbands—they bring their wives presents
occasionally.”
“Then, darling, your Freddy’s not done anything he’s ashamed
of yet.”
“C.A.8.” : Canberra has at least one old
building; the 90th anniversary of the laying
of the foundation-stone of the Church of
St. John the Baptist will be celebrated on
May 11. The Bev. Edward Smith, then
rector of Queanbeyan, laid the stone; what
is now the Federal Territory formed only
a quarter of his parish. Others present were
W. F. Hayley, surgeon at Queanbeyan;
Campbell, surgeon at Yass; _ and A. T.
Faunce, the Queanbeyan magistrate. St.
John’s, which was not completed until 1845,
was consecrated by Dr. Broughton, Bishop of
Australia. The register shows that the
first baptism took place on June 12, 1545,
and the first marriage was performed on
July 23.
“Pantagruel”: Illicit stills are not all
used for the production of moonshine, corn
liquor of the class of gin a Chinaman was
industriously making in a Sydney suburb
until the police descended on him a few
months ago. A plant seized near Wollon-
gong (N.S.W.) the other day was being
utilised for no graver offence than the con-
version of blackberries and sugar melons
in1;o a spirituous and heartening beverage.
It wasn’t alleged that the stuff had been
sold, but even stills that are only run to
gratify the operator’s taste for something
with a kick in it are viewed by the authori-
ties with gloomy distrust, and a fine of £25
was imposed, payable at the rate of ss. a
week. It is questionable whether a man who
can compound a stiff, wholesome, palatable
stimulant out of blackberries in these hard-
up times doesn’t deserve to be encouraged
rather than punished, but presumably the
law will have to be altered before he can
experiment in safety.
THE LANG PLAN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“They called it welshing once,” the old man
said,
“And there was retribution swift and dread,
And savage, too, for those who tried that lay
And couldn’t make a timely get-away.
There’s country courses where I’ve seen that
kind
Sprinting for life, a yelling pack behind,
And when they pulled him down, the angry
crowd,
No time for explanations was allowed.
’Twas not enough to strip him of his loot,
They’d tear the clothes 1 from off his back
to boot;
And in the not improbable event
Of water being handy, in he went.
“ ’Twas rough-and-ready justice then, you’ll
see,
For chaps who weren’t as straight as they
might be.
A milder view of it, ’twould seem, prevails
Now Lang the standards sets in New South
Wales.
“Soon, I suppose, as often as a string
Of well-backed winners has hit up the Ring,
And shortage threatens in the bulky wads
Of some industrious merchant of the odds,
No more he’ll meditate retreat, no more
Make requisition on a comrade’s store,'
But while the punters for their takings wait
He’ll snap his satchel up and tell them
straight:
‘All bets are off. No need to make a song.
The prices you obtained were far too long,
As all of you by now must be aware.
To seek to hold me to them isn’t fair,
For, since those bets were laid, things have
occurred
That force me to go back upon my word.
And, anyhow, all my remaining quids
And notes are earmarked for my wife and
kids,
Whose claims and needs, reflection assures
Me, are more pressing ones by far than
yours.’
And being quite a reasonable lot
(With Labor ’ heads among them, like as
not),
They’ll be expected readily to see
And recognise the justice of the plea.
“They called it welshing once,” the old man
said.
“I’ve seen poor cows who tried it left for
dead;
’Tis Tanging’ now in politicians’ slang.
Now who, of all the lay-the-fee-uld gang,
Will be the first to lift a leaf from Lang?”
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“C.Q.”: The history of political and other
enthusiasms can be read in the names of
many streets in Melbourne. Round about
the Trades Hall there is a rash of thorough-
fares named after Italian and Irish patriots
which dates from the outburst of republi-
can sentiment in the last century. The only
literary renaissance Elwood has yet known
took the form of calling streets after poets.
Here Kendall, Lawson and Gordon streets
join gutters with Byron, Dryden and Burns
streets. Round Shakspeare Grove by Luna
Park there is an eruption of literary nom-
enclature. Kew has gone in for the painters,
among them Longstaff, Meldrum and
Leason —the two last a happy juxtaposition.
At the present moment Box Hill is chafing
over the possession of a Theodore-street, and
residents have petitioned. the council to have
the stigma removed in favor of Lyons or
Latham. It is in vain that several aldermen
have pointed out that the street was not
named after the Federal Treasurer at all;
the complainants refuse to be mollified.
=!: * * *
“Exon”: There were riotous doings at
Sydney Uni. when an attempt was made
to start a political Labor club and one of
Lang’s Ministers was invited in to give the
cause a lift. Some such ebullience might have
been anticipated, but it is rather amazing
to find one aggrieved newspaper-commentator
attributing the demonstration largely to
scholarship-holders; “in my own term at the
’Varsity,” the writer adds, “I found the most
intolerant, snobbish and rowdy element
among those dependent upon scholarships
made available by the generosity of Govern-
SPEAKING FROM EXPERIENCE.
“Are you married?”
“No, but I’m engaged—which is just as good.”
“It’s a lot better, if you only knew it.”
meats, private citizens and the Senate.” If
that is so, I can only say that it flatly con-
tradicts my own experience at an English
university, where the scholar in the main set
an example to the average undergrad, in the
matter of decorum as well as industry. It
may have been mostly because he had more
sense as well as balance, and wasn’t there
merely to waste his time; but, outside of that,
the authorities had an extra power of punish-
ment in his case, that of depriving him of his
scholarship. I recall some exhibitions of
rowdyism directed against Radical politicians
—those were pre-Labor days—but the class
of men who led them were invariably those
who had no interest in schools or academic
honors.
* * * *
“Bildad”: About the most remarkable pro-
duction of the age, with the possible excep-
tion of Premier Lang’s letter congratulating
the “S. M. Herald” on
its hundredth anniver-
sary, appears to be Ein-
stein’s theory of rela-
tivity. Bernard Shaw
pulled the public’s leg by
stating that relativity is
the most upheaving and
illuminating discovery
up to date, and Einstein
was asked by a bewil-
dered admirer to give his
own condensed definition
of the matter, but as he
replied that the most
rudimentary explanation
would spread over weeks
the questioner gave it up
and fell back on Gene-
sis, which puts the
matter in few words.
The main feature of re-
lativity seems that there
is no such thing as a
straight line, and if a
straight line is only
long enough it must
come back to its starting
point. Hov r long may be
long enough remains a
mystery. This raises the
question whether Eter-
nity is only a great heap of Time, or whether
it is made of entirely different materials, as
could be proved by analysis if one could only
get a slab of Time and a hunk of Eternity to
work on. If Eternity is really Time, only
more of it than we are accustomed to, it
seems that original Rabbi Abraham and
modern Jew Einstein may be contempora-
ries to-day, and though the former is a sort
of invisible locomotive, running at a prob-
lematical pace on an imperceptible set of
rails, he will ultimately turn up at the
same station as his remote descendant,
because a direct line must get back
home one of these days. Abraham is gener-
ally supposed to have kept a straight line.
It might make the position more clear if
Einstein published a theory as to when and
where Time and Eternity and Space began.
On the other hand it might make the con-
fusion worse.
H* *{•
“A Major”: “B Flat” (B. 8/4/’3l) asks
whether the troubadors who flourished prior
to a.d. 900 were incapable of carrying tunes
in their heads so that they could perpetuate
them for the benefit of posterity. Probably
not; and who can say how many melo-
dies of that age came floating down
the dim avenues of time to find lodg-
ment at last, on parchment? But the
top-notchers of the troubadoring game may
have prided themselves so much on their
powers of improvisation that they scorned
to l'epeat themselves. Their job was to make
up words and music as they went along, and
though they doubtless had their well-worn
stock of cliches and conventions and tricks
of trade, a really fine inspiration or two built
up a better reputation unrecorded than if it
were written down in black and white for
pig-tailed damosels to murder. It lived in
men’s memories clothed in the nebulous
grandeur of a sunset or a storm. That there
were some second-raters who repeated them-
selves and imitated others, and whose efforts
by mere force of repetition gained long life,
cannot be doubted. To this source can be
traced, I think, some of the music of the
Scottish pipes. Older still, probably, is some
THE EXHIBITS.
THE RECTOR’S WIFE: “The hussy!”
THE RECTOR: “No, my dear. No! ‘Art,’ as Seneca said — and, as you will see by looking
around you—‘art is merely an imitation of Nature!’”
of the music of the synagogue—which,
strangely enough, is the one place where, to
this very day, you can hear elaborate impro-
visations. Oldest of all, because they are
cherished by peoples who have no musical
notation, must be the rhythms of savage
tribes. Jazz, almost certainly, has a far
longer pedigree than the oldest of Gregorian
plain-songs.
H* . *!*
“Erua”: The departing wife of a Sydney
man put all her matrimonial troubles down to
clothes. She met him in Eon don when he was
resplendent in a major’s uniform, became en-
gaged at their third meeting, and after peace
arrived journeyed to Sydney to marry him.
Her first shock came when he met her in
a badly-fitting blue suit. When she dis-
covered lie couldn’t afford anything better,
and certainly couldn’t afford to dress her,
she nearly changed her mind and went home
then instead of 12 years later. “Never marry
a man you’ve seen only in uniform or even-
ing kit,” she says earnestly. “Wait till you
see if you can love him in dungarees and a
shameless hat.”
$ $ * $
“X.S.”: Melbourne produced its most
determined would-be suicide the other day in
a man who threw himself down in front of
a train, which was stopped in time. He tore
off and tried to immolate himself under the
wheels of one motor-lorry and then another.
Defeated in his aim by the vigilance of both
drivers, he finally rushed away and cast him-
self into a foot of water and two feet of
mud in a neighboring quarry. Charged with
offensive behavior, he pleaded unemployment,
and a kindly sergeant obtained his discharge
on a promise to find him a job.
'•* $
“F.S.”: A judicial decision interesting to
artists was recently given in Paris. The
painter Camoin was dissatisfied with 60
pictures which cluttered up his studio, so
he cut them to pieces and heaved them into
the dustbin. They were found by a profes-
sional ragpicker, who gathered them up,
sewed them together and sold them to a
dealer. On ascertaining what had happened,
Camoin brought an action against the dealer
for the return of his restored pictures. The
Court ruled that, having been thrown away,
the fragments became the property of anyone
who found them; but nobody had any right
to defeat the intentions of the painter by
rehabilitating them. So the masterpieces
were solemnly subdivided again in the pres-
ence of both parties.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Dame Clara Butt related in
Melbourne how, when she congratulated her
manager in Singapore on the fine house for
her opening concert, that worthy gloomily
remarked that it was all paper and it was
doubtful if ho would be paid for a tenth
of it. The chit system still flourishes every-
where in Asia, as it did in the days of the
East India Company. It Hs a sort of fidu-
ciary issue on salaries, and the good payers
shoulder the debts of the non-payers without
knowing it. Few employees of English firms
ever carry change except for rickshaw fares,
and as it is difficult, to remember for the
space of a whole month exactly how many
dollars you have signed for, the day of
reckoning is usually one of sorrow. On that
day you emerge from your office and are
greeted by a row of hungry-looking Tambies,
each with a bundle of your IOE T ’s under his
arm. In Singapore the chit system is car-
ried to extraordinary lengths. You can sign
a chit for anything; for a drink or a new
motor-car —even for “follies worse than
these,” as the poet puts it.
* * * *
“Sliep”: Many and subtle were the ruses
employed by authority in the early days of
Weymouth camp to elevate B-class convales-
cents to the “fit-for-the-line” status. But
those with memories of the footballs tossed
out in Egypt to Diggers awaiting hospital
ships (with a cancelled berth for those most
active in the scrimmages) had become ex-
tremely wary of calls for volunteers for some
unspecified job. Late in 1915 such a call was
broadcast to part of the camp for a dozen
men to march out. The unknown job wasn’t
rushed, and in the end a pair were detailed
to fill the quota. There were guffaws from
the rest when they were issued rifles and
bayonets—“back to the front” looked a moral.
But after the orderly officer had inspected
and passed them that night he gave them
details of their job for the benefit of the
rest of us —guard on a hospital ship over a
trio of mental , cases being returned to Aus-
tralia, thence back into camp in their home
States, with instructions to apply for leave
on arrival. The mob left behind at Wey-
mouth never got another chance like that.
* * =:= * ,
“Homfrey Beale”: “The Breaker’s” verses
“A Night Thought” (B. 8/4/’3l) were .set to
music by C. A. Amos, a friend of Morant’s, and
in those days a watchmaker at Walgett. The
song had a great vogue throughout north-
west N.S.W.; it was a haunting melody by
a composer with a real gift for music. Amos
himself, like Morant, was a good deal of a
mystery, who just floated in and set up busi-
ness. He never spoke of his past life and
what was the bond between the pair nobody
ever knew. From when I left Walgett I
never heard the song till I was in Birming-
ham (Eng.) hospital in T 6. . An Aussie
sang it there one. night, and brought down
the house with it.
* * =i= v
“T. Essbie” : It was mentioned in a
case bearing on the removal of the ship’s
compass from the wrecked Malabar that
anyone who helps himself to an article valued
at £1 or more from a stranded or wrecked
vessel is liable to a fine of £lOO. A lot of
revenue must have been lost when the River-
ina came to grief on the South Coast a few
years ago. Not long afterwards I camped for
a night or two with an old fisherman near
Mallacoota. In his slab hut I sat in a
luxurious saloon chair and ate a meal from
an expensive dinner-service. I recall a porce-
lain-bath, too, which could hardly have been
bettered in a city hotel.
* # * *
“Runa”: The Maoris are a fine example
of what can be done to preserve history and
folk-songs by word of mouth (B. 8/4/’3l).
Writing being unknown, symbols were used
to represent various tribal happenings of
the long past, but the details were recited
from generation to generation and thereby
preserved. Folk-songs also were handed
down in the same way, and only recently
composer Alfred Hill spent some time on
the Wanganui River collecting the words
and music of ancient Maori ballads. When
I was a child an old Maori took me round
a wonderfully-carved meeting-house, relating
the history of his people as symbolised in
the carvings. My chief recollection is that
a mouse fleeing into a hole stood for the
annihilation of a famous enemy of his tribe,
who was driven into a cave and left to die
there. A
* * * $
From “Standat Tees” :
We’re only a small community, but we pride
ourselves on the way we keep Anzac Day. It was
old Joe Slicer Avho called the public meeting- to
arrange the speeches. Joe was a pacifist in 1914
a militant pacifist, with the accent on the fist. He
donged old man Smalley one night in the Farmers’
Arms. Smalley’s lad. had just enlisted. It cost Joe
a fiver. But, of course, that was before he stood
for the Council —he’s president now. Joe was only
doing a bit of cattle dealing then. It wasn’t till
T 5 he started the butchering, with the two boys
to help. Handy lads, both born in the saddle, slick
with the skinning-knife and not too slow with the
brands, either. They put Joe on his feet, and
since then he’s never looked back, as they say. In
the list of speeches Joe put himself down for “Fallen
Heroes.” That’s his subject. He’s done it a good
few times now—and he does it well. Not a bril-
liant speaker, but it’s the sentiments that get the
crowd.
Harry Bellows was put down for “Sympathy.”
And Harry can speak. Auctioneering’s good train-
ing for the platform. You should have heard him
at the sale at that chap Smith’s place. Pretty
brummy lot of stuff he had—kerosene-case wardrobe
and so forth. A soldier-settler chap. Never made a
do of it somehow, and the Rural Bank closed on
him. Cripes, Harry was funny selling that stuff!
Laugh! I nearly died. Anyhow, Harry took “Sym-
pathy.” Of course he couldn’t work in any of his
funny sayings, and that hampered him a bit, but
he did it real well.
Then there was “Anzac Memories” —Sam Sugar
did that. Always speaks from notes, Sam, and once
he gets things sorted out can knock out a good
speech. A chap sitting next to me, a stranger,
said, “This should be good. He was on the Penin-
sula, I suppose?” Bit too knowing for that, is Sam.
There were two other storekeepers in the place when
the war bro.ke out. Sam bought them out when they
enlisted. One of the chaps tried to start again when
he came back—a one-legged chap. But he couldn’t
stand up to the competition. Sam cut prices to the
bone. Useful man, Sam. Hospital Committee, Race
Club, and so on. He made a good job of “Anzac
Memories” —you know, “enshrined in our thoughts,"
“imperishable fame” and that sort of thing.
Yes, it was a good day. Well organised and so
forth. Considering we’re only a small town I reckon
it was first-rate. And that sort of thing-Vthe silence
and the speeches and that —makes you think.
A LADY IN LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m in love with a lady in love.
(Yes, the lady is, too!)
And she types for the chap just above
Where I sweat for my screw.
She’s a feather of flame as she goes
Up the workaday stair,
With freckles (just two) on her nose,
And stars in her hair.
There’s the blue of the sky in her eyes,
Bright charm in her tread,
And ’tis strange that her smile is so wise
When her lips are so red.
She lives in a fairyland flat
(’Tis so, I insist)
Whence she trips in a blithe little hat,
To be capably kissed.
Through the ashes of Hades I’d crawl
For a rose that she flung!
Ah ! isn’t it so with us all
Who are human —and young?
Yet I would that the typist above
Were another, not she!
Though I love, and the lady’s in love,
It isn’t with me.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some May birthdays:—
Vic. Crown Prosecutor Book, 36, on Ist; Senator
Major-Gen. Cox, 68, Brig.-Gen. G. M. Macarthur-
Onslow, 56, and S. G. Boydell (Clerk of N.S.W.
Leg. Ass.), 64, on 2nd; Justice Rich (High Court),
68, C. R. J/ Glover, Mayor of Adelaide, 61, and
Prof. Laby, F.R.S. (Melb.), 51, on 3rd; Dave
Gordon, M.L.C. (S. Aus.), 66, Prof. McKellar Stewart
(Adel.), 53, ex-Federal Minister C. L. Abbott, 45,
and Chas. Earle (“Dominion,” M.L.), 60, on 4th;
ex-N.S.W. Premier Bavin, 57, and Antarctic explorer
Douglas Mawson, 49, on sth; Vic. former Chief-Sec.
Prendergast, 77, on 6th; J. T. Heathershaw (Federal
Treasury), 60, on 7th; G. S. Browne (Melb. Teachers'
Coll.), 41, on Bth; Geo.- Mackaness, M.A. (bio-
grapher of Bligh), 49, on 9th; N. F. Spielvogel
(Vic.), 57, on 10th ; Prof. Perkins (S. Aus. Director
of Agric.), 60, on 11th; Canon E. S. Hughes (Melb.),
71, on 12th; Bishop James (St. Arnaud), 54, on
13th; S. Aus. Premier Lionel Hill, 50, and ex-N.S.W.
Senator Col. Abbott, 62, on 14th; Peter; Reidy,
M.H.A. (S. Aus.), 57, on 15th; Chief Justice Blair
(Q.), 60, on 16th; Newton Moore (formerly Premier
and Agent-Gen. of W.A.), 61, and poet Leon Gellert,
39, on 17th; Brig.-Gen. Harold Grimwade, 62, Dr.
Percy R. Cole (Syd. Teachers’ Coll.), 52, and Dr.
Chas A. Fenner (S. Aus. Education Dept.), 47, on
18th; ex-P.M.G. Gibson, 62, and F. J. Rae (Director
of Melb. Botanic Gardens), 48, on 20th; Prof.
Coleridge Farr, F.R.S. (M.L.), 65, on 22nd; Justice
Angas Parsons (S. Aus.), 59, and Judge Beeby, 62,
on 23rd; Governor Goodwin (Q.), 60, W. J. Cole-
batch (S. Aus. Assistant-Director of Lands), 54,
and Ivor MacGillivray (ex-M.H.A. of S. Aus.), 91,
on 24th; Jas. R. Fowler, M.A. (Adel, merchant),
66, on 25th; Dr. W. G. Torr (“Old Oxford,” Adel.),
78, on 26th; knight Arthur Cocks (Syd.), 69, knight
Fred Waley (Syd.), 71, Brig.-Gen. W. R.
McNicoll, 54, Col. J. W. Castine (S. Aus.), 85,
ex-S. Aus. Senator Charleston, 83, and Prof. Lang
Campbell (Adel.), 42, on 27th; ex-Chief Justice
Cullen, 76, and ex-Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.), 80, on
28th; ex-Melb. Uni. Prof. Berry, 64, on 30th; Q.
Senator Foil, 41, Capt. L. S. Bracegirdle, 50, and
Acting-Justice J. H. Hammond (N.S.W.), 56, on 31st.
Sydney Uni. is seven years behind its Mel-
bourne sister in starting a Labor club. One
of the four founders of the Melbourne group,
It. S. Gibson, son of the philosophy prof.,
went to n.-w. Tasmania the other day after
two years abroad to do W.E.A. lecturing.
The others were Lloyd Ross, son of Bulle-
tin contributor R. S. Ross, who is now
on leave in England from his W.E.A. job in
Maoriland; Brian Fitzpatrick, who after a
sojourn in Fleet-street is writing economic
history in Melbourne; and R. Fraser, now
a London journalist.
The news that Agar Wynne, now an octo-
genarian, is in failing health on his station
in south-west Vic. was received with regret
by all who still remember him as public
man and sportsman. Before entering the
Reps, he sat in the Vic. Upper House, where
he was Solicitor-General and P.M.G.; later
he filled the 1 latter office in a Commonwealth
Ministry. In 1917 he returned to Vic. poli-
tics, wms Attorney-General under Bowser for
four months, and came near to being
Premier, finally retiring in 1920. His
invariable friendliness and ready sympathy
were things that helped to sweeten
politics.
George Lansbury, First Commissioner of
Works and sometime editor of the London
“Daily Herald,” told the House of Com-
mons during the debate on the Sunday open-
ing of cinemas that lie had worked in Aus-
tralia as a slaughterman, and resigned rather
than kill on Sundays, and turned stone-
breaker. The reference books mention
briefly that Lanshury arrived here in ’B4 and
left a year later. Accepting his statement
that he poleaxed bullocks, it may be ven-
tured that he is the first man wiio ever rose
from that calling to the editorial chair of
an important daily.
Herbert Duncan Hall, who as president of
the Government Savings Bank of N.S.W.
had the melancholy job of announcing that
it was closing until further notice, was born
at Geelong 59 years ago and educated at
Coburg public school. At 15 he became a
Vic. Savings Bank clerk and steadily rose
till he was made accountant at the head
office. In 1908 lie and Alex. Cooch came to
Sydney to help the commissioners to organise
H. D. HALL.
the N.S.W. Government Savings Bank on
the lines of that of the sister State. Hall
Avas offered the position of chief inspector
and stayed. A year later he was appointed
a commissioner, and on the retirement in
1928 of the chief commissioner, W. H.
O’Malley Wood, who had passed the age
limit, Hall succeeded that veteran.
Joseph Firth, who died in Wellington the
other day, seized his great when,
at the age of 33, he became head of Welling-
ton College. In ten years of concentrated
effort he trebled the school roll, converted
a marsh and a gully into the finest playing
fields in the Dominion, and placed the col-
lege in the forefront of secondary schools in
both scholastic and sporting spheres. A
man of magnificent physique and inspiring
personality, lie put the building of character
first among his responsibilities, and won the
affection of his pupils so thoroughly that
during the Great War hundreds of his old
boys at the front corresponded with him
regularly. He was a. Maorilander, born in
the little Westland mining village of Cobden.
A scholarship took him to Nelson College,
where he commenced his teaching career, and
he graduated at Canterbury College. A
C.M.G. came his way after his retirement,
10 years ago. He was 72 when the last
call came.
When the Westralian Government decided
29 years ago to go to England for a Supreme
Court Judge not much objection was raised,
even by the Bar. That body had protested
bitterly and successfully against the per-
manent appointment of a previous Attorney-
General who had .managed to get himself
made an acting-judge, and the selection of
any local man would have led to more dis-
sension, the lawyers being divided into
cliques. The job was offered to Robert
Furse McMillan, a Cambridge and Inner
Temple barrister, and he more than justified
the choice. McMillan, who died, suddenly
last week at 73, gave his adopted country
The late ROBERT FURSE McMILLAN,
Westralia’s C.J.
faithful and valuable service, succeeding to
the Chief Justiceship on the retirement of
the late Henry Parker in 1913 and dying in
harness. He was a thoroughly able and
painstaking lawyer, whose decisions were
hardly ever upset. His judgments in the
most intricate cases were generally models
of clarity. Outside the courts he was never
widely known until he was called upon to
act occasionally as Lieut,-Governor in recent
years, but no man could have stood higher in
professional estimation.
Gus Peverill, formerly Vic. Under Sec.
for Lands, is dead. While climbing up
the ladder of the Lands Department and
Land Tax office, his chief hobby was the
A.N.A.; he was on the directorate for 10
years and was chief president for a term.
Within nine months H. O. Allan, W.
Mclver and Peverill, all in their time perma-
nent heads in the Lands, have passed over.
Dead, at 66, Arthur Wadsworth, Common-
wealth Librarian from 1901 until his retire-
ment three years ago. His father, Robert
Wadsworth, was Clerk of the Vic. Executive
Council in his day; the son entered the Vic.
Parliamentary library at 16. Astronomy
was one of his spare-time hobbies.
W. R. Barstow, clerk-assistant of the Vic.
Upper House, who retires next month,
worked his way up the ladder from telegraph
messenger. His first big rise was in 1901,
when Speaker Mason switched him on to the
line that made him successively sergeant-at-
arms, clerk-assistant of the Assembly, and
ditto of the Council. Barstow’.s marvellous
memory for events and personalities was of
immense service to him, and he was always
sure of himself.
N.S.W. Diggers will remember Captain
J. W, Niesigh mainly as the man who
looked after their transport privileges and
into their claims to other concessions when
they came back from the war; of recent
years he was the Nationalists’ publi-
city man. He died last week. Niesigh mixed
journalism and military service most of his
days. He was in the Boer business as well
as the World War. He had political ambi-
tions for a time, but they w T ere not gratified.
Just-dead octogenarian Tom Armfield was
one of the old type of trade-unionists and
a one-time president of the N.S.W. Labor
Council. He was secretary of the Coach-
builders’ Union for years, resigning to fight
an unsuccessful election battle with David
Storey at Randwick. Afterwards he went
to Queensland and was M.L.A. for Mus-
grave for six years. He was father of the
first N.S.W. policewoman, who is still on
duty.
Major William Geoffrey Cahill, who died
at Brisbane last week, was born in Ros-
common, Ireland, 76 years ago and came to
Australia in his twenties. For nearly 30
years he trod legal paths as an officer of
different courts. He was Curator of Intestate
Estates, Registrar of District Courts and
Under-Secretary of the Department of Jus-
tice ; as a side-line he put in years of service
in the State and Commonwealth military
forces. In 1905 Cahill was appointed Com-
missioner of Police, a position he filled for
12 years with firmness and tact —and there
was need for both qualities in the Brisbane
strike of 1912. He retired in 1917.
The passing of G. T. Langridge, one of
Melbourne’s best-known real-estate agents,
recalls that his dad was a politician. George
the elder was Minister for Customs in the
Service-Berry coalition and, later, Chief
Secretary under Munro. He died in 1891,
and Munro picked George Turner to put in
his place over the heads of two honorary
Ministers. It was a wise choice; Turner
was destined to become Premier of Vie. twice
and Federal Treasurer twice.
Jean Daley, Yic. Labor party’s most pro-
minent feminist, holds a record amongst
women of all political brands. She has just
been elected to the central executive of her
party for the 11th year in succession. South
Australia—her native State —has nominated
Miss Daley for the League of Nations’ 1931
conversational jamboree.
Dan Levy, ex-Speaker of the N.S.W.
Assembly, is one of thfc best linguists in
politics. French, German, Italian and
Spanish, he reads them all, and he even
knows something of Gaelic. His was a bril-
liant career at Sydney Uni., where he won
scholarships in mathematics and modern
languages, as well as carrying off the gold-
medal for classics.
Thomas Holden, one of the first Labor
M’s.L.C. appointed by the McGowen Govern-
ment, has just had a 70th birthday. His
Redfern tobacconist shop from the early
’nineties up till the time of the Conscrip-
tion split was a favorite meeting-place
of Labor heads. Jim McGowen was Holden’s
idol, and it ivas mainly through his efforts
that the sum of £7OO was raised for a ceno-
taph to McGowen’s memory in the grounds
of St. Paul’s Church, whereat Jimmy spent a
lifetime as Sunday-school superintendent.
Vic. Parliament will on Nov. 21 celebrate
the 75th anniversary of its first meeting
under responsible government. The Assembly
has faced the people 30 times and has had
15 Speakers (Murphy, McMahon, Duffy,
Lalor, Davies, Bent, Berry, Mason, Gillies,
Beazley, Madden, Mackey, Bowser, Snow-
ball and Peacock) ; the Uppish House has
had eight Presidents (Palmer, Mitchell, Mac-
Bain, Zeal, Wrixon, Davies, Manifold and
Clarke). The Davies (Matthew) who was
Speaker was a brother to the Davies (John
Mark) who was President, and both were
lawyers. There have been 47 Governments.
Only once has an Uppish House member been
Premier—Uharles Sladen w r as a stopgap for
two months in 1868 between two Govern-
ments led by James McCulloch.
The Federal Government showed a larger
spirit in appointing an acting statistician
than it has done in some of its appointments.
Professor L. F. Giblin, of the Chair of
Economics of Melb. University, was one _of
the first to break a lance in the press with
the professional economists of the Melbourne
Trades Hall. His series of “Letters to
John Smith,” in Melb. “Herald,” put the
situation in such plain workaday terms
that the Trades Hall felt something had to
be done about it. Don Cameron, the presi-
dent, was put on to reply to the professor,
but his w T as a lame and, halting reply. Giblin
was a Labor M.L.A. in Tasmania before he
went to the war with the 40th Battalion. He
is in his 59th year.
Now that employment should be given
where possible, the following suggestion may
be of use. Let all Sydney’s prominent com-
pany directors be re-photographed. Some of
them don’t seem to have been asked to look
pleasant since boyhood. Jimmy Burns, of
Burns, Philp and Co., for example. He
faces his shareholders periodically, in the
business columns of the daily papers, with
the ingenuous smile and luxuriant looks of
a lad in his very early twenties. So does
Bertie Kelly, of the Perpetual Trustee and
other vast concerns. Almost the only cap-
tain of commerce who doesn’t look like a
junior subaltern in his photographs is George
Judah Cohen. He keeps up-to-the-minute in
this respect, as in all else.
Two consid-
erations actu-
ated the ap-
pointment of
Henry Barkley
to the job of
C o mmonwealth
weather - diviner
in succession to
H. A. Hunt.
One 9 f .h i s
specialties is tin 1
weather as it
affects the man
on the'land, the
other as it affects
the man in the
air—two aspects
of meteorology
which are of
extr aordinary
importance at
the moment.
Barkley was a
schoolmaster at
Mel bo urn e
Grammar an d
Scotch • College,
and it was his
private studies
in the science
he has made his
own which
opened the door
of the Common-
wealth Bureau
IS years ago.
He was born
at B rigli t o n
(Vic.), and is
47 years young.
HENRY BARKLEY,
the new Commonwealth
Meteorologist .
“Toongooroo”: Lord Stamfordham (B.
8/4/’3l) came of a family represented in
this country a hundred years ago by Mr.
Commissioner Bigge. And a cousin of
the late nobleman was a squatter on
the Upper Brisbane River. One of
Lord Stamfordham’s last unofficial acts in
connection with Queensland was to send out
to the Anglican rector of Cleveland £lOO
bequeathed for church purposes by his
cousin—Francis Edward —in memory of the
days when he lived there and visioned for
it an unrealised future as capital.
It was reserved for N.S.W. Senator James
Patrick Digger Dunn (Digger is a recent
addition) to suggest that the Priminister,
his revered chief till a few months ago,
should be known as “Radio Jimmy.” Dunn,
N.S.W. Senator DUNN.
an excitable little Irishman, saw war service
in New Guinea as well as on the other side
of the world. He became a Senator at his
third attempt, in 1928; between times lie
toiled at Cockatoo Dock. It was suggested
that Mrs. Dunn might stand for East Syd-
ney, whereupon Mr. Dunn said “One poli-
tician in the family’s enough.”
“Shelly Beach”: There was at least one
Fairfax omitted from the centenary number
of the “S. M. Herald”: William, a nephew
of the first John Fairfax, who was imported
to Sydney because he was an expert printer.
John met him in England in 1852, and in-
duced him to come to Sydney a few years
later. According to the account current in
Warrnambool when I was a boy, Uncle
John had' promised William a partnership
after Charles Kemp was bought out of the
firm, but it didn’t materialise, the inference
being that John was a choleric old chap who
quarrelled with liis nephew. Anyhow, Wil-
liam came to Victoria, finally landing in
Warrnambool and joining the late Professor
Daurie, latterly of the Melbourne University,
as owner of the “Warrnambool Standard.”
William Fairfax had a fine personality, a
charming manner and a deep bass voice.
“Fossicker” : A recent writer (B. l/4/’3i)
brackets Harbord and Mulligan as discoverers
of the Palmer goldfield, but the former was
not in Queensland at the time (1872). Frank
Hann, later a well-known explorer, found
gold on the Palmer when he was locking for
pastoral country, and passed the information
on. A party of four, with Bill Brown, an
experienced busliman and prospector, at their
head, were the first on the field. Mulligan
was one of them, and though he was a new-
chum he signed all . the applications for
claims, Bill being no scholar; hence the
prominence given to his name in connection
with the discovery. The names of the other
two I forget. I first met Harbord on the
Miclere, a small, diggings on the Peak Downs,
in ’79; that was his furthest north up to
that time. It was in later years he was
associated with Mulligan in prospecting ven-
tures. Harbord was never the man to claim
credit for another’s achievement.
“Hurstville”: If anyone had alleged pub-
licly six years ago that T. J. Ley would
descend eventually to drinking the health of
Alfonso, late of Spain, as chairman of a
London sportsmen’s luncheon at the shame-
lessly festive Savoy he might well have col-
lected a libel writ. In 1925, as Minister for
Justice in George Fuller’s last Government,
Ley was a prominent prohibitionist and anti-
gambler. He began as a clerk in the
Sydney office of Norton, Smith and Co.,
showed the same early gift for figures and
platform oratory as ex-Treasurer Stevens,
whom lie resembles in appearance and voice,
made a lot of money here, and is understood
to have made a lot more in London.
“ Jeames”: Lord Banbury, who last w r eek
gave notice to reject 20 clauses of the Mac-
Donald Government’s Land Utilisation will,
is an interesting figure. At 81 he is tallish.
lean, almost foppishly dressed, with a pallid,
unsmiling, moustached little face, whose ex-
pression suggests that lie is permanently in
the presence of a bad smell. He has a high,
querulous voice to match, and no sense of
humor. He is about the most consistent and
violent diehard in the Lords, thus perpetuat-
ing the tradition that the most furious
Tories come from the middle classes. He
was originally a stockbroker. Most animal-
lovers have a warm corner in their hearts
for Lord Banbury, though his congenital
truculence has involved him in row after row
with the R.S.P.C.A. At the age of 76 he
grappled w T ith a London carter who was ill-
treating a horse, and hung on to him till the
police came.
“Old Timer”: About the only N.S.W.
equal for persistency of Arthur Griffith, who
has been Clamoring periodically for re-admis-
sion to the A.L.P. ever since lie was outed
on the Conscription issue, is Dick Meagher.
The silver-tongued one never stopped apply-
ing to the Courts to be restored to the roll
of attorneys, though he knew it was futile,
and that his only hope lay with Parliament.
The thing that keeps Griffith a permanent
Peri at the Trades Hall gate is not his
alleged offence, but the thing that made it
ridiculous for Hughes, Holman and others to
expect to be allowed in again—formidable
ability. The A.L.P. bosses would be madly
chivalrous to give such men a free run at
their jobs, and whatever the bosses may be
they aren’t that. Griffith will be, allowed
to associate on terms of equality with
Garden, Grant and the rest of the Goulburn-
street aristos some day, provided he forms
no Nat. or A.F.A. relationships, but he will
be an old, old man and an extinct force
when that day comes.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 12 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, . and is payable ' every month
during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director
WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
General Secretary.
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 44 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
EXPLOSIVES
ALL KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers qf all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines,' Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Savings Bank Suspends Payment
The suspension of payment by the Gov-
ernment Savings Bank of N. S. Wales on
April 23 was the first thing of its kind since
the crash of the ’nineties. It is the direct
outcome, not of any unsound action on the
part of the commissioners, but of lack of
confidence, born of the pernicious influence
of politics.
The drain on deposits began when the
bank’s name was used for political purposes
in pre-election speeches in October last. It
became more pronounced after Mr. Lang
destroyed public confidence by his legislative
programme and the adoption of default,
and when it was realised that he had power
under the rationing scheme to supersede the
commissioners. The pressure was made
obvious by the bank’s own advertisements of
reassurance at Easter time. The drain con-
tinued, the cash resources became depleted,
and the second line of defence, mainly State
Government securities, could only be realised
at such a heavy discount as to unduly pre-
judice the whole financial structure of th?
institution. So amalgamation with the Com-
monwealth Government Savings Bank was
proposed. This, instead of inspiring confi-
dence, created fresh nervousness, and. there
was such a heavy run on the State bank —
depositors feared the possibility of a hitch
in the negotiations—that it was decided to
“suspend payment until further notice.”
This, of course, has caused serious embar-
rassment to many depositors, of whom there
were over a million at June 30 last. Thanks,
however, to the board of the Commonwealth
Bank, relief is to be granted in urgent cases
immediately the Lang Government passes
legislation, which it has agreed to do, in-
demnifying the Federal institution against
any loss it may suffer in this respect.
The question which most concerns deposi-
tors at the moment is whether they are likely
to lose any of their money. Section 48 of
the N. S. Wales Government Savings Bank
Act of 1906 reads as follows :
The repayment of all deposits in the bank, whether
made before or after the commencement of this Act,
and the payment of interest thereon, shall be payable
out of the funds of the commissioners held under
this part, and is guaranteed by the Crown. Any
liability arising from such guarantee shall be pay-
able out of the consolidated revenue fund.
That is to say, should the liabilities of the
bank exceed the value placed upon its assets
for the purposes of the merger, the State
Government is liable to make good the defi-
ciency. In such an event,’however, it is un-
likely that depositors would be asked to
accept bonds or debentures, notwithstanding
the bareness of the Treasury. The pro-
babilities are that the Commonwealth Bank
would accept special interest-bearing securi-
ties from the State Government for the
amount involved.
The position in each of the three depart-
ments of the State bank at last balancing-
date, June 30, 1930, was as follows: —
Savings Rural Advances
Bank. Bank, for Homes.*
Deposits . . £70,633,344 £10,824,521
Due other banks 578,973 157,783
Rural Bank loan 5,822,169
Homes Dept, loan - £13,240,032
Other liabilities - 323,409
Cash . . . . 1,751,584 654,907 41,758
Fixed deposits. . 15,207,238 1,675,818
Public securities 36,064,730 482,352 512,519
Rural stock . . 4,423,323
Homes stock .. 10,819,780
Mortgages, etc. 2,833,764 14,518,764 13,517,713
Debtors, etc. . . 20,362 64,529
Premises .. 1,750,000
♦lncludes Government Housing Department.
The ratio of cash and call money to deposit
liabilities was 24 p.c. in the Savings and
21.5 p.c. in the Rural branch ; the Act re-
quires a minimum 20 p.c. The Savings Bank
had over £5,582,000 on deposit with the State
Treasury. The amount has been increased
since, and together with recent interest
thereon has become a frozen asset. Approxi-
mately £30,000,000 of the public securities
were State paper. The book value of the
surplus of assets over liabilities in the three
departments was £1,658,465, Savings;
£527,368, Rural; £573,078, Homes. Total,
£2,758,911.
To what extent withdrawals, which, for
the most part, have been redeposited with
other banks, have depleted liquids, in-
cluding public securities, has not yet been
announced. The first care of the Common-
wealth Bank board is, of course, for the pro-
tection of depositors in its own Savings
Bank. The most doubtful of the State bank’s
assets are the Rural and Homes mortgages;
advances up to 90 p.c. of valuation were
made of recent years. It has, of course,
yet to be decided whether these departments
will be absorbed by the .Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank, or whether they will be sepa-
rated from the bank proper, and on what
terms. It is impossible to say at the moment
exactly when depositors will be able to
operate freely on their accounts again ; it all
depends upon how soon terms can be agreed
to between the Commonwealth Bank and
the State Government.
At the week-end market speculators ex-
pressed their confidence in the position by
offering 18s. 6d. in the £ for depositors’
rights, without attracting sellers.
There is no reason to suspect that any of
the other banks are likely to become involved.
It is plain, however, that no one can more
quickly destroy financial institutions than
the politicians. So long as these persons
tin-eaten the savings of the thrifty by pro-
posing glittering substitutes for work and
economy, instead of making an honest effort
to balance their budgets, so long will con-
fidence decline, capital remain shy, trade
dull, unemployment acute and the market
for Government bonds and other securities
depressed.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits.* 7 p.c. Ordinary, serves, serves.
£ £ * £ £ £
1921.. 45,837 5600 12j p.e. = 37,500 2,737 41,017
1922.. 36,139 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 539 41,656
1923.. 36,800 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 1,200 42,756
1924.. 43,540 5600 124 » 37,500 440 43,196
1925.. 36,209 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 609 43,805
1926.. 45,336 5600 124 ~ 37,500 2,236 46,041
Added to goodwill, £3OOO .. .. 43,041
Premiums on new shares, £45,000 .. 88,041
1927- 64,143 6600 14 p.c. = 43,400 15,143 103,184
1928.. 69,553 5600 14 „ „ 56,925 7,028 110,212
Added to goodwill, £5186 .. .. 105,026
1929.. 71,358 5600 14 p.c. = 60,350 5,408 110,434
1930- 56,955 5600 114 ~ ,» 49,500 1,855 112,289
1931- 14,542 5600 5 „ „ 22,000 99,231
The slump has hit few sections of industry
harder than the building and ancillary
trades. Still, Wunderlich’s, whose business
is spread over all the Australian States and
Maoriland, won its full share of the trade
available, and, being blessed with an alert
management and efficient organisation, was
able to make prompt and substantial savings
in overhead. There was, nevertheless, a pre-
cipitous drop of £48,185 in the declared net
profit, which, after allowing for the pref.
divs., was a wink over 2 p.c. on average
ordinary capital compared with 12.9, 20.5,
20.8, 25.3 and 19.5 p.c. back to 1926. The
board considered that, consistent with safety,
shareholders should get a little of the fat
accumulated in former years, so a 5 p.c.
div. was paid, reserves being raided for
£13,058 for the purpose.
Excepting last year the profits shown in
the table differ from those claimed by the
amounts transferred and divs. paid under the
co.’s staff partnership scheme:—
Certi- Divs., Certi- Divs.,
ficates. etc. ficates. etc.
1924 .. £16,175 £2525 ] 1928 .. £15,009 £5680
1925 .. 0 r 75 2470 | 1929 .. 15,000 6657
1926 . . 3905 | 1930 . . 5772
1927 . . 15,000 5010 | 1931 . .
Certificates are made available out of sur-
plus profits, after shareholders have had
a minimum 10 p.c. Divs. are 5 p.c. less
than' is paid on the ords. Last year staff had
to be shortened, and those whose services
terminated were assisted to the extent of
£31,682 from the partnership and super-
annuation fund, reducing it to £81,673 at
Feb. 28.
Broadly, the board’s policy has been to
distribute profits as they were earned. Divs.
averaged 11.9 p.c. over the decade to the close
of accounts in 1929, but earnings during that
period were swollen by the building boom
which accompanied the scattering of loan
funds. Meanwhile many new lines have been
added to the co.’s manufactures, and substan-
tial additions made to freeholds and plant.
Results will now largely depend upon the
extent to which plant can be kept employed.
The co. can be expected to get a large slice
of whatever business is offering, and recent
tariff adjustments should help.
Finances are comfortable enough :
1920. 1930. 1931.
Shareholders’ capital . . £379,666 £520,000 £520,000
Employees’ capital .. 14,040 113,355 81,673
Liabilities . . .. 38,244 136,851 66,855
Freeholds . . . . 151,559 346,818 347,538
Leaseholds .. . . 9,659 1,421 1,027
Plant, etc 108,926 244,735 242,990
Stocks 136,396 202,516 138,140
Book debts . . . • 64,342 107,799 32,972
Cash, etc 16,598 6,636 18,891
The year’s dulness is reflected in the con-
traction of £74,827 in debtors’ balances and
of £64,376 in the book value of stocks. The
money thus made available was used to make
the payments from the staff fund, reduce the
trade debt by £69,996 and strengthen the
cash holding by £12,255. Altogether the
more or less liquid surplus (£123,148, inelud-
ing stocks) was £56,952 lighter than at the
previous balance.
On the market the pound shares, which
fetched 455. two years ago, recently sagged
to 95., but later recovered to 13s. At 13s.
the return is 7.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis;
the backing is 245. 6d. in net tangibles,
mainly plant, etc., worth what it can earn.
At 15s. 6d., which is offered for the prefs.,
the return is 9 p.c. There are 40,000 first
and a like number of seconds, all carrying
a cumulative 7 p.c. and ranking in the order
stated. The net tangible cover is £l5 9s. 7d.
and £l4 9s. 7d. respectively.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends. N
£ £ £ £ £
Pref. To Re-
Jan.,- Loss. (6 p.c.), Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
1922.. 46.224 30 24p.c.= 2069 • 27,811
Written off capital, £21,296.. .. 6,515
Profit. Reserves.
1923.. 11,800 90 Nil 11,710 5,195
Goodwill ( £4622) disappears. . . . 9,817
1924.. 25,186 60 10 p.c. = 8518 16,608 26,425
Set aside for taxes, etc., £BOOO . . 18,425
- ' (10 p.c.)
1925.. 33,506 3914 10 p.c. = 8518 21,074 39,499
Written off, £3587 .. .. •• 35,912
1926.. 36,014 10,100 124 p.c.=10,648 15,266 51,178
1927.. 7,674 10,100 10 ~,,8,518 40,234
Shares in subsidiaries written down, £8976.. 31,258
Loss. 74 P-c.
1928.. 23,683 7,575 Nil
Special provision for losses on stocks, debtors, Deficit.
etc., £lB,OOO 18,000
1929.. 44,639 Nil Nil 62,639
Further special provision for losses, £1249.. 63,888
Written off capital, £63,888 .. ••
Profit. Reserves.
1930.. 21,087 7,575 Nil 13,512 13,512
Loss.
1931.. 692 2,525 Nil 10,395
Reserved for contingencies, £BOOO . . 2,395
Car and truck registrations in N. S. Wales
for the four weeks ending mid-March were
2757 in 1929, 1708 in 1930 and 384 in 1931.
Thus turnover in the motor-agency business
has become a shadow of what it used to be.
Moreover, selling prices have continued to
ease, repossessions have glutted the used-car
market, and the collection of debtors'
balances has become increasingly difficult.
It is all reflected in a sharp contraction
of £52,599 in last year’s gross profits
(£40,246) of this co. and its chief subsidiary.
Overland, Sydney, Ltd. The saving of
£30,920 in exes. (£40,856) was not enough,
so a trading loss of £592 occurred. The
quarter’s div. on the prefs. covered their re-
quirements to Oct. 31, 1928, leaving the con-
tingent liability for arrears at £20,200, or
4s. per share. Also, a special provision of
£BOOO was made for contingencies, notwith-
standing that assets are claimed to be con-
servatively valued. Thus the excess of net
tangibles over paid capital was reduced to
£2395 in the books at Jan. 31.
Still, finances are comfortable. The out-
side debt was covered over seven times by
debtors’ balances, which are largely advances
to subsidiaries :—•
1924. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £186,182 £186,182 £122,296 £122,296
Liabilities . . 257,491 121,236 57,909 15,399
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 79,993 82,062 24,428 23,573
Plant, etc. . . 10,349 12,181 ( „ 9
Stocks .. 202,189 1,067 ) 3 ’ 484 2 > 683
Book debts .. 86,052 195,828 166,234 117,211
Mortgages • • —"
Cash, etc. .. 1,412
Shares in other
cos 5,622 39,522 4,622 4,622
The year’s reduction of £49,023 in book debts
enabled the board to make the pref. pay-
ments, lop £36,703 off the overdraft (£13,349,
which has been wiped out since the close of
accounts) and reduce the amount coming
to .sundry creditors (£2050) by £5807. The
curtain is kept drawn over the pups’ figures.
The parent apparently has no contingent
liability in respect of bills, etc. Thus far
the N. S. Wales Moratorium Act has caused
the co. no inconvenience, the chairman says.
The outlook is obscure. There are still
too many in the trade for the volume of
business likely to be available; still, as the
weaker concerns drop out the survivors
should benefit. Meanwhile satisfactory pro-
fits will be difficult to earn, especially as the
co.’s premises are in excess of trade require-
ments, thus making overhead difficult to get
back.
The co. has had a chequered career. It
was registered in 1908, but made slow pro-
gress for the first 10 years. Then 4s. a
share was struck off the ords. to cover losses
on stocks in the 1921 slump. The recovery
was prompt, yet the ords. had another 12s.
per share slashed off in 1929, reducing the
face value of the scrip to 4s. That was partly
because of the loss on Fiat cars, stocks of
which, together with the agency, had passed
to a concern which quickly lost all its capi-
tal and a lot of unsecured creditors’ money
besides.
Mindful of the past and doubtful of the
future, the market prices the fully-paid £1
10 p.c. cum. prefs. at Bs. 6d. There are
101,000 of them in a paid capital of £122,296.
The backing amounts to 245. Bd. in net tan-
gibles, largely book debts, which are not the
asset they were a few years ago. There is
speculation in the ords. at Is.
Union Trustee Co.
Ordi- Investment
' nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ k-
-1922.. 14,020 10 p.c. = 11,000 27,505 736
1923.. 15,309 10 „ ~ 11,000 31,814 102/
1924.. 17,024 10 „ ~11,000 37,838 1047
1925.. 20,853 10 „ ~11,000 47,691 104/
1926.. 20,233 10 ~ ~11,000 56,924 1063
1927.. 20,706 10 „ ~11,000 66,630 1097
Transferred to capital, £15,000 51,630 1097
1928.. 20,252 10 p.e. = 12,500 59,382 1026
1929.. 20,341 10 „ „ 12,500 1 65 223 1156
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO j ’
1930.. 21,033 10 p.c. = 12,500 ( 71 756 648
Staff Super. Fund, £2OOO j ’
Transferred to capital, £12,500. .59,256 b 4«
1931.. 16.009 9 p.c. = 12,375 1 61 890 74
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO j ’
Apart from the small chances they take
when investing their own funds, these tru. -
tee cos. do not have to risk much. i\ eve -
theless, the fall in the value of real an i
other property and the shrinkage m income
from estates, especially those con^ st * n ”
largely of pastoral interests, have affected
the corpus, agency and other commission
earnings. „ AO
This one, which started in Melbourne 40
years ago, and has since spread to Sydney,
Brisbane and Townsville, has strong - con-
nections in pastoral circles. It does not
publish the volume of trusts on its books,
but earnings have stepped along in this
way:—
Commissions,
Interest, etc. Expenses.
1895 .. .. £7,799 £4,151
1915 .. .. 17,318 9,728
1920 . . • • 37,029 24,609
1925 . . . . 80,658 59,805
1928 .. .. 92,761 72,509
1929 . . . . 95,036 74,695
1930 . . . . 104,567 83,534
1931 . . . . 98,904 80,895
After providing for contingencies the slip
in the year’s commissions, etc., was £sbbo.
Exes, were got back £2639, but that was
largely offset by £2OOO put aside for taxa-
tion ; thus the net result was £5024 lighter
than the previous year’s. .
It was 11.6 p.c. on capital, to which
£12,500 was transferred from reserves early
in the term to pay another 2s. 6d. on each 91
the 100,000 50s. shares, making them paid
to 275. 6d. All but 2s. 6d. of the remaining
225. 6d. is a reserve liability callable only
in the event of liquidation. The div., which
had remained steady at 10 p.c. since 1020,
was reduced to 8 p.c. p.a. for the latter halt
of the term, making 9 p.c. for the year.
During the last 11 years £37,500 of reserves
has been capitalised, which makes 9 p.c.
worth 12.3 p.c. to old holders.
In the event of inflation commission-earn-
ing would probably increase, but money is
the worst of all possessions in such a period,
and may lose much of its value before it
could be paid in divs. Also the real value of
Government securities and all other fixed-
interest-bearing assets would, of course, de-
preciate.
The co.’s own investments are in this form:
1915. 1920. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £73,822 £lOO,OOO £125,000 £137,500
Liabilities .. 1,231 6,084 89 73
Premises .. 50,474 83,925 121,344 128,081
Public securities 32,732 52,668 61,791 61,218
Mortgages and
debentures. . 1,724 427 409
Cash, etc. .. 7,117 2,235 21,216 12,032
Sundry debtors
and sundries 1,660 2,305 964 6,297
Public securities appear at net market price
at balancing dates, which probably explains
the disappearance of £lOB2 from the invest-
ment fluctuation reserve over the last two
years.
On the market 41s. is offered for the scrip,
at which figure the return is 5.3 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts to
40s. in net tangibles.
Bon Marche, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends. Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Profit. 7i p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Feb., 60,000
1921.. 18,760 6000 74 p.c. = 7500 5,260 54,740
1922.. 14,565 6000 74 „ „ 7500 1,065 53,675
1923.. 18,606 6000 74 ~ „ 7500 5,106 48,569
1924.. 23,513 6000 74 „ „ 7500 10,013 38,556
1925.. 23,661 6000 74 „ „ 7500 10,161 28,395
1926.. 23,686 6000 74 ~ „ 7500 10,186 18,209
1927.. 23,756 6000 74 „ „ 7500 10,256 7,953
Reserves.
Assets written up, £25,000 .. 17,047
1928.. 22,352 6540 8 p.c. = 8000 7,812 24,859
1929.. 15,650 7500 8 „ „ 8000 150 25,009
1930.. 11,140 7500 6 „ „ 6000 22,649
Loss.
-1931.. 9,858 3750* Nil 9,041
* Half-year’s div.
Half-way through the term the position
looked good enough to pay the prefs. an
interim div. But both turnover and stock
values continued to ease, while the debts
problem and overhead became more perplex-
ing. Thus, after providing for bad debts
and taking stocks into account at £11,680
less than the 1930 figure, the result of the
year’s trading was a loss of £9858. After
attending to the pref. requirements, the
balance of the previous year’s net earnings
was 3.6 p.e. on ord. capital as against 8.1,
(Continued on page 16.)


*
\
:
si xV \ a.*o*)!
4 m. 2
»
6
tO™
0
VP
u
'-'
&00 fW "


The Savings Bank
Suspension.
On April 23 the Government
Savings Bank of N.S.W. sus-
pended payments.
Are any of the other banks
likely to do the same?
Can this drift in the public
accounts be stopped?
Is inflation inevitable; if so,
who would suffer most from it?
Which companies are likely to
come through with the best
results?
These, and many other prob-
lems of vital interest, are dis-
cussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
FOR MAY
ON SALE MAY 2.
SINGLE COPY, 21-
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
:K * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Sc * * *
Australian-made Pioneer Wood Pipe has met with
outstanding success wherever it has been used. Prac-
tically every liquid-conveying job is within its scope,
and many big and important contracts have specified
Pioneer Wood Pipe. In addition to its high all-round
efficiency and great durability, this conduit costs
considerably less than any other type of pipe. Write
for full details to the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7 he Standard ot Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-ug a
Detonators
Cartridges
“A-TROUTING WE WILL GO"
TROUT FISHING AND ITS JOYS,
Told by Dr. Chas. Anderson, M.A., Director of the
Museum, in the NATURE LOVER’S MAGAZINE.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE
April-June Number, Volume IV, Part 6, Now Ready.
Other Articles. All Fully Illustrated.
Mineral Collecting in Central Australia T. Hodge-Smith
Diatoms H - For(,hani
Asbestos: Its Occurrence and Uses 0. Chalmeis
Rock and Goose Barnacles ••■•••• " •
Wild Life on Inland Waters Chas. Barrett, C.M.Z.S.
Copies obtainable from Leading Booksellers and the Museum.
Annual Subscription 4/4 posted Single Copies 1/1 posted
THIS YEAR
If ever it was necessary for the man of limited means to con-
serve carefully and to spend wisely, it is now. In most cases
incomes are lower, and in many outgoing is greater, and conse-
quently reduced margins must be provided for.
True Thrift is not only the hoarding of money—it is just as
much a matter of careful, useful spending; but obviously the
saving must come first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account and use it faithfully.
It costs nothing, but will help you to help yourself.
&MOitwealtl) Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
15.8, 17.7 and 17.6 p.c. back to 1920. But
it may be a while before turnover and profits
again reach the level of the boom years.
The co., which is an offshoot of Marcus
Clark, was registered 11 years ago. The
business, largely t.-p., stepped along nicely
while public and other loan funds were being
scattered, and the ord. div. was lifted from
7| p.c. to 8 p.c. in 1928. It was then decided
to anchor goodwill and provide for expan-
sion ; so the freehold was bought and the
premises extended. To finance the outlay and
carry more book debts £60,000 was raised on
mortgage and £20,000 of fresh pref. money
was gathered, making paid capital £200,000,
one half prefs. and the other ords. The ords..
which include £60,000 for goodwill, are all
held by the parent. Incidentally, the free-
hold was bought for £25,000 below valuation,
so the property was written up by that
amount and paper reserves benefited.
The position as the published accounts
disclose it is as follows: —
1921 1926 1930 1931.
Paid capital.. £lBO,OOO £lBO,OOO £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities . . 13,515 20,258 82,098 68,986
Freehold . . 124,205 124,198
Plant, etc. . . 3,449 3,557 18,144 17,200
Stock . . 34,618 31,933 40,856 29,170
Book debts . . 99,519 146,175 126,350 103,308
Investments, cash,
etc. . . 11,088 9,775 9,943 9,150
The amount made available by last year’s
reductions in stocks and book debts was
used to wipe £11,113 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors (£10,985) and £2OOO off
the mortgage (£58,000). Nevertheless, there
was a sharp drop of £22,409 in the more or
less liquid surplus—£72,642, including stocks.
The prefs., which carry a cumulative 7i
p.c. and have priority as to capital, were
covered by net tangibles a book value of
41s. lOd. At 18s. the return is 11.2 p.c.
Water Board Loan
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board is
appealing to the public for £350,000
for essential works. The issue is in
two-year 6| p.c. debentures at £99 10s.
Including redemption the yield to the
investor is slightly over 6£ p.c. The
paper Is a m investment, the security
being the income of the board from all
sources. For the year to June 30 last the
revenue was £2,753,690. Outgoings were
£2,497,926 —working exes, £810,256 ; interest,
£1,600,766; sinking fund, £86,914- —leaving
a surplus of £255,764. It is a trustee secu-
rity, the amount asked for is moderate and
the object a worthy one. _
This is the board’s second venture into
the loan market since it became a separate
borrowing authority. In 1929 an issue of
£1,500,000 15-year 51 p.c. bonds at 991 was
well supported. They are now at £BO on
the market; at that figure the immediate
return is a shade under 7 p.c.
Death of Maoriland’s Iron Industry.
The slump has hit the iron industry
throughout the world nearly as hard as it
has hit the farmer, and it has virtually
extinguished Maoriland’s gallant attempt to
use its own ore deposits. These arc con-
siderable. The Geological Congress’s publica-
tion, “Iron-ore Resources of the World,”
estimates that the limonite deposits in the
neighborhood of Golden Bay, Nelson, con-
tain 64,000,000 metric tons, and on North
Island beaches there are large deposits of
iron sand. Encouraged by the promise of
Government bounties the Onaka Iron and
Steel Co. was formed in 1921 with a capital
of £250,000 to exploit the Nelson deposits.
At that time pig-iron was worth £lO a ton
in the Dominion, and cast-iron pipes were
sold at £l3 10s. per ton. The co. in 1925
was receiving 30s. per ton Government bonus
on all iron produced. This rate of subsidy
continued for three years, after which it was
decreased by 2s. per ton each year, the cur-
rent bonus being 225. per ton. The plant
has a maximum capacity of 50 tons a day,
and in 1929, one of its best years, the co.
smelted 8043 tons of ore, which yielded 4393
tens of pig-iron valued at £21,965. Since
then the price has continued to fall, and the
co., which pays £50,000 a year in wages,
employing 200 men, has had to go into liquid-
ation.
The Government cannot justly be blamed.
It has paid £36,290 in bounties, supplied the
co. with State mine coal at a bedrock
price, and last year advanced £14,000 to
enable operations to be continued. An appli-
cation for further aid was turned down only
because Mines Minister Murdoch was con-
vinced that the co. could not carry on at a
profit.
Broken Hill
Shortly after the Barrier cos’, contract for
the sale of zinc concentrates to the British
Government ran out in June last the price
of the metal fell below £l7 per ton, produc-
tion of the concentrates ceased and the zinc
was allowed to remain in the tailings sent
underground to fill the stopes. Lead was
then around £IS per ton; it averaged £l5
ss. Sd. in December, and the position was
made a great deal worse by the fact that the
cos. had been unable to sell large quantities
of their output, even at the reduced rate..
Following a new agreement with the
unions, fixing the basic wage at the declared
rate for the State plus 7s. 6d. a week, the big
cos. decided to carry on. The cos. reserved the
right to give two months’ notice of suspen-
sion if lead remained below £l5 for 24 con-
secutive days. It eased steadily to £l2 os.
at last week-end, when spelter was £ll os.
But the exchange raises these prices to £l6
and £l4 13s. respectively in Australian cur-
rency. Because of this and a reduction in
railway freight on zinc concentrates, for
which a market has now been found, the
North and the South have decided to re-
open their zinc plants on a date yet to be
fixed.
The total metal production of the two cos.
for the eight months since the close of last
accounts (June 30, 1930) compares with the
corresponding period of the previous term as
follows: —
North.
Lead. Zinc. Silver.
1929- .. 36,581 tons 24,161 tons 1,332,957 oz.
1930- .. 38,523 „ 3,734 „ 1,521,356 „
South.
1929- . . 49,042 tons 28,822 tons 2,792,585 oz.
1930- . . 32,239 „ 1,267 „ 1,899,402 „
Average metal prices for the nine months to
the end of March were, lead, £l5 12s. 9d.;
zinc, £l4 9s. 2d.; silver, Is. 3d. For the
corresponding period of 1929-30 they were
£2l 19s. 2d., £2l 18s. 9d. and Is. lOd. re-
spectively. Last quarterly divs. were,
North, 9d., Dec. 8; South, 6d., Nov. 31. . On
the market Norths fetch 465. 6d. and Souths
335. lOd. as against 70s. and 48s. respectively
a year ago.
Geological survey of the Bendigo field dis-
closes that the most favorable positions for
the occurrence of gold are the saddle reefs,
and their east and west legs. 11. W. Gepp
and W. Baragwanath have recommended the
Vic. Government to spend up to £50,000 in
subsidising the equipment and exploration at
depth of the Central Nell Gwynne, Deborah
and Monument Hill mines. A gold-
bearing horizon is expected to be met
with in the Central Nell Gwynne between
500 ft. and 1000 ft. This show, the lease of
which is not held at present, is close to
Lansell’s big 180 Mile, on the New Chum
line, which was a very rich producer. The
New Deborah Reef Co. owns the Deborah,
from which good results are expected
between 435 ft. and 1000 ft. The Monument
Hill property was drilled by Bendigo Amal-
gamated, which still holds a machinery lease
over the site of the surface plant. The lease
of the mine has been applied for by Mr.
Stanistreet of Bendigo. H’opes are that the
deepening of the shaft from 770 ft. to 1150 ft.
will disclose something worth while.
Since the failure of the Amalgamated
mining at Bendigo has steadily declined.
The only cos. now producing are the Iron-
bark, Hercules and New Red, White and
Blue (Nos. 1 and 2), all on the Sheepshead
line. There is a little tributing on the South
New Moon and New Moon at Eaglehawk,
but without notable success.
* * * *
Two good crushings draw attention to a new
gold-bearing area, North Arm, about 30 miles
south of Gympie (Q.). The Golden Surprise
reef has had a clean-up of 50 tons, worth
£9OO, or a fraction over £lB per ton; the
first 50 tons in March was worth over £l6
per ton ; a fine average. Gympie interests
have been attracted and a new lot of leases
have been pegged. Work has been in pro-
gress on this and the neighboring Coolum
reef for over 12 months. Since practically
all quartz in the area seems to be auriferous
it is largely a question of locating the shoots.
Little is known of the geological conditions,
but the reefs may be in Gympie volcanics.
No plumbago beds have been struck at
North Arm, so enrichment will not follow
the same principles as on the Gympie field.
The Coolum ore is refractory; the sands
from the reefs assayed an ounce per ton.
Further discoveries are on the cards, and
the Surprise reckons it has a year’s crushings
in sight.
* * * *
“B. Bee”: There was disappointment in
Rockhampton when the Mt. Cassidy dis-
covery did not fall into the hands of the
syndicate mentioned in the “Wild Cat.” Now
the prospectors have no future interest,
which is a pity. The prospecting shaft is
down 34ft., and a 3oz. assay has been taken
out of a drive. But this has to be viewed
with the usual caution; however promising
the show it is not likely to average ounces.
* * * *
The Launceston syndicate which recently
took over an area adjoining the old Cale-
donian mine, now the New Golden Gate, at
Mathinna (Tas.) has decided to get 10 tons
of the stone crushed at the Ringarooma
United battery before it buys the plant
already on the field. The main formation
is a 10ft. wide reef, and there are four oilier
lodes ranging from 2ft. to sft. in width. The
tunnel on the main formation is in approxi-
mately 150 ft., arid there are about 70ft. of
backs.
Continuous grinding and flotation began at
Wiluna (W.A.) on March 3. By April 1
18,298 tons of 325. ore had been delivered
to the mill bins, and 14,417 tons were ground,
the concentrates reaching the filtering and
roasting section on March 10. Preci-
pitation began 14 days later. The result
of the clean-up has not yet been announced,
but everything has worked smoothly, and
tonnages are to be increased. The crosscut
from the main shaft at the 625 ft. level has
reached the last lode.
* ❖ * ijc
Lake View and Star is pushing ahead with
the erection of its new £300,000 flotation
plant, which is going up on Chaffers lease,
where the first experimental unit began about
a year ago. At the present stage of con-
struction the equipment is capable of treat-
ing 15,000 tons of ore monthly, but will
handle double that quantity when completed.
A new wet ball and one tube mill have
arrived, and preparations for immediate
erection are in hand. The Chaffers shaft is
being reconstructed to enable increased ton-
nages to be efficiently handled; new poppet
legs are being placed in position at the
moment. Latest crushing was 8335 tons ore
for a revenue of £21,354. Working costs
were £14,364. In addition 7588 tons of
tributors’ ore was treated.
❖ H« H* H«
There are about 400 men at Larkinville
(W.A.), where the Golden Eagle nugget was
found. They are mostly old-timers, working the
ground systematically. High yields are ex-
pected from two crushings, one of 35 tons
from Clough’s lease and another of 18 tons
from Moran and Heron’s property, which
have been sent to the Coolgardie battery.
There has been a mild rush about two miles
south of Larkinville, where a woman recently
obtained 2oz. gold by specking.
❖ H« H« ❖
The syndicate which took up the You-
anme (W.A.) lease has decided to posti>one
flotation of a co. until things become more
settled. Those who applied for shares are
to get their money back in full. Meanwhile
the syndicate proposes to test the lodes at
depth, or allow another concern to do it.
H: Hi H« Hi
Mararoa shareholders, happy in the know-
ledge that a London crowd had taken an
option over their show at Cue (W.A.), have
been disturbed by announcement of a penny
call. Most of the scrip is held in W.A.
With’ Wiluna and Lake View and Star’s
capital requirements, and conditions as they
are, London has sufficient W.A. shows on
hand for the moment. When Wiluna has
proved a winner, the position may be dif-
ferent.
* * * *
Though Sons of Gwalia, Great Boulder,
South Kalgurli, Lake View and Star and
some others appear to be just about paying
their way, the exchange benefits and the gold
bonus when it comes along will improve the
position. The show that is giving the tax-
gatherer most comfort is the privately-owned
Radio, Southern Cross. It has been a good
profit-earner for over a decade.
H* H* Hi Hs
Attention is again being given to Mt.
Jackson, about 100 miles north of Southern
Cross (W.A.). 'Mt. Jackson had a short
but hectic career in 1896-97; transport
costs killed it. Since then the motor-truck
and better tracks have altered the outlook
for many isolated propositions.
* * * *
Not since pre-war days has prospecting
been so vigorous in W.A. So far no bonan-
zas have been unmasked, but promising re-
sults have been disclosed at Bullfinch, Broad
-Arrow and Sandstone.
* * * *
Victor Leggo’s arsenic recovery plant at
Wiluna (W.A.) is working satisfactorily;
it will supply Australia’s requirements as
well as a good tonnage for export.
* # *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) How is gold extracted from black
sand? (2) Explain the use of a blanket and
quicksilver. (3) What mercury is required?
When can I obtain it, and price? —2774.
(1) Take small quantities of sand and
pan down as far as possible without losing
the gold. Place the concentrates in a dish
(must be plain iron, not tinned), add about
a teaspoon of quicksilver, and agitate
in water until all the gold has been brought
into contact with the quicksilver to form
amalgam. Pan off in the ordinary way, or
hold the dish at an angle and pour water
in from a height to wash the sand out; re-
cover the amalgam. Squeeze the amalgam
through a damp chamois leather to' recover
any free mercury. Heat the amalgam to a
red heat, when the mercury will be driven off
leaving the gold. An iron retort should be
used for this purpose if it is desired to
recover the mercury. (2) Black sand is run
as a thin film with water through boxes, the
bottoms of which are covered with a blanket.
The blanket is held in position by side cleats,
easily removed. Gold and heavy minerals are
caught on, the blanket, and the lighter
material washed away. At intervals the
blanket is washed down, lifted and washed
in a tub to recover the concentrates. The
concentrates are then treated as stated above.
(3) A pound of mercury should last for
some time; you can get it at any wholesale
drug store in Sydney; 7s. to 10s. per pound.
I have. trailed fine (/old up a Gft. dolorite
dyke for its full length. There is no quartz.
In what manner would the gold he most likely
to occur throughout the deposit? —2Sl9.
In association with sulphides, such as
pyrites. The gold obtained in panning would
be released by surface decomposition of these
sulphides. Most likely it would occur in, irre-
gular pockets, possibly with local enrichments
in the fissure along the contact, with small
amounts disseminated through the dyke and
country rock adjacent to the fissure. It is
difficult to advise without knowing more
details regarding the nature of the deposit.
Send samples to the Queensland Geological
Survey for examination.
New Zealand Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
(1) Financial position? (2) Value of
shares in N.Z.? (3) Where can shares he
bought? (4) Safety as an investment? (5)
When are divs. declared?— 3loo.
(1) and (4) See “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,”
July, 1930. Prospects of shares depend on
whether bondholders’ lots can be grown and
marketed within estimated cost. Any sur-
plus of bond money belongs to shareholders.
So, apparently, does money received on
bonds forfeited. (2) and (3) No free
market. Write Smith, Wylie and Co.
(representatives), Kembla Buildings, Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, for possible sellers. (5)
Annually now—B p.c. for last two years.
(1) Gan a company pay off its pref. share-
holders at any time it so desires? (2) In
the event of inflation, would it he to the
company's advantage to repay its pref. capi-
tal?—,296s.
(1) Depends on memorandum and articles
of association and prospectus of pref. share
issue. Generally, any action by the co.
involving the rights of pref. shareholders re-
quires their express sanction. Sometimes,
however, the prospectus and/or articles con-
fer the right upon the co. to repay on giving
certain notice; in such a case the sanction
of the Court would be requii-ed. (2) Gen-
erally speaking, yes.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.M.D.: (1) No information available
here. (2) See B. 11/3/’3l concerning oil prospects
at Lakes Entrance (Vic.) ... .G.C.C.: (I) Yes. (2)
See remarks on Government Savings Bank of N. S.
Wales, page 14. (3) Yes... .A.R.W., Toowong: A
readjustment of capital is probable; the debt pushes
dividends in the future ; still, you may lose less in
the long run by sitting tight than by selling at the
moment. See “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” January, 1931,
for review of co.’s accounts.... Muggins: Yes, a
reasonable risk.


ALIBI.
“Premier Lang states that the N.S.W. State Savings Bank is perfectly sound but that under Commonwealth control depositors will get more effective protection than has been afforded them under State control."
DEALER LANG: “It isn’t the coat that smells, Mister —it’s me.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty's “The Duchess of Dantzie”
Criterion “The First Mrs. Fraser”
State Movies and Talkies
MEI,BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal . 1 “The Pirates of Penzance”
1 “Trial by Jury”
Comedy (com. Saturday) “Loyalties”
State Movies and Talkies
The pre-eminently best attended shows in
Melbourne recently have been the two great
political dramas “The Prodigal Son’s
Return” and “Thunder from the Left, or
Little by Little (and possibly Even Less).”
The first-named was produced at the Town
Hall regardless of expense. Co-starring in
“Strong men wept.”
it were those
two eminent
p e r f o r mers,
Joseph Aloy-
sius Lyons and
his wife. The
former has
already earned
golden opinions
from the
critics for his
appearances at
the Canberra
Grand Opera
House in a
series of great
tragic roles
As King Lear,
in the modern
adaptation of
the Shak s-
pearean play,
he will be re-
membered as
having given a
touching ren-
dering of the
simple-minded,
honest mon-
arch who is
turned out in
the snow as
soon as he surrenders his power to his un-
feeling and unscrupulous daughters, Scullin-
Regan and Theodore-Goneril.
In the present play he appears in an even
more pathetic part—that of a king without a
kingdom who is compelled to seek the assist-
ance of former enemies in order to regain
his crown. In this equivocal situation it
would be expected that his speeches would
fail to win the sympathy of an audience. In
an almost exactly similar role the late dis-
tinguished tragedian William Morris Hughes
frequently left himself open to the charge
of insincerity. Not so Mr. Lyons. The
transparent honesty of the dispossessed
sovereign, liis deep faith in his ability to
restore the lost prosperity of his people, his
noble rage as he describes the perfidy of the
usurpers of his power, were brought out by
Mr. Lyons by methods which could hardly
be called acting at all. As he stood there,
his kindly face framed in silver-grey hair,
his hands clasped across a stomach of modest
proportions and his good-humored eyes gently
lighted by the warmth of an inner integrity,
it was impossible not to believe in his belief
in the justice of his cause, even if one were
unable to accept all his proposals as prac-
ticable.
In all his experience present critic has
never seen such an unsophisticated perform-
ance have such a deep effect upon a house.
Strong men wept, women looked broken-
heartedly at their neighbors and even the
press reporters were seen to be unusually
busy with their handkerchiefs.
But, great as was the emotion stirred
by Mr. Lyons, it was nothing com-
pared to the sustained enthusiasm aroused
by Mrs. Lyons. As the exiled queen,
Mrs. Lyons was poignant in her majesty.
In homely words, which yet rang with
intense conviction, she showed that the
solution of the tragedy lay, not in the
squalid intrigues of courts or the fortunes
of political battlefields, but in the hearts of
the people; in the steadfastness of house-
wives, to whom an unbalanced domestic bud-
get was unthinkable; and in children who
never failed to admit that mother knew best.
At the final curtain there was not a dry
avp in flip Vmncjp
“Thunder from the Left,” staged by the
world-famous actor-producer John Lang a
few nights later, was a quite different sort
of show, though by a curious coincidence it
also dealt with the sorrows of a king. In
this case the monarch is still 1 on the throne,
but, after years of misrule, the kingdom is
falling into disrepair, trade is declining, the
capital is being deserted, the banner of revolt
is being raised in the provinces, the mer-
chants, groaning under ever-fresh exactions,
are practically ruined, the taxpayers can
no longer meet their dues, the State coffers
are empty and only a small priestly aristo-
cratic caste known as Trades Hall bosses or
bonzes continues prosperous. The king is
feared by the court, execrated by the people,
loathed by the churches, despised by the
intelligentsia and suspected even by his
closest friends. It is only by the func-
tioning of an archaic system known as the
Party Machine that he remains in power at
all, and even this is beginning to fail when
the play starts.
In the circumstances, the monarch feels
obliged to adopt the device invariably
employed by kings in this plight of providing
a foreign diversion to occupy the people’s
minds. This he does by asserting that all
the kingdom’s troubles are due to the demands
of a dragon known as the Financial Incubus,
which resides in another realm beyond the
seas. This animal, he claims, repulsive in
appearance, has to be supplied daily with
enormous stocks of wheat and wool which
would otherwise go to feed and clothe his
starving subjects; and it. gives absolutely
nothing in return. In addition, it demanded
every quarter the most beautiful virgin in
the land. Moreover, there are in the king-
dom sundry disloyal persons, known as
Bankers. They are in league with the dra-
gon, and, owing to the laws, are beyond his
control. As a constitutional monarch, he
asks the people to allow him to alter the
laws so that he can deal with the Bankers
and destroy the dragon; whereupon the age
of happiness, no work, few r er hours, general
prosperity and mutual goodwill will imme-
diately dawn. On this optimistic note the
play ends.
The performance opened under inauspicious
circumstances. Having heard that the piece
was contrary to public morality, and in
places even obscene, the lessees of two
theatres refused their premises, and it had
to be staged at the Stadium. Moreover, what-
ever merits the play, as a play, might have
had were completely obscured by the shock-
ingly bad acting of the leading man. It may
be said right away that Mr. Lang would fail
to give conviction to any r6le, except that of
a thrower of custard pies. Even in that
he would probably be inept owing to the
coarseness of his aim. Mr. Lang is well
known to have served his apprenticeship to
the stage solely in questionable farces and
melodrama of the feeblest kind, and the habit
of appealing to the lowest emotions of the
lowest type of audience has obviously stuck.
Mr. Lang has a horribly grating voice.
11 is gestures were bad. His appearance and
delivery were against him, especially when
he essayed to express the tenderness of his
compassion for the sufferings of his people at
the dragon’s hands. It is safe to say that
only an audience unaccustomed to sound
traditions of stage art could give such a crude
performance the ovation it undoubtedly re-
ceived. In explanation it has been asserted
that a large proportion of the house was
‘ packed,” in the sinister sense of the word.
Thunder from the Left” has since gone
on tour to other parts. The present critic
does not wish to be unfair, but, in view of
what he has heard of the manager’s previous
financial, exploits, he will get the shock of
his life if Mr. Lang’s company gets paid.
* * *
Nat Phillips’s co. turned into the seventh
month of occupation at Sydney Opera House
on Saturday. One reason why it is doing
extraordinarily solid business is that its
leaders, Phillips (Stiffy) and Syd Beck, are
adepts at playing on the toughest instrument
of all, the audience. They can work their
crowd up to a pitch that “enthusiasm” only
mildly describes. It is something in these
blase days to see the rag going up for
encores three times after.a finale. The brand
of goods offer-
e d is low
comedy, but
not in the sug-
gestive . sense.
Even their
bedroom black-
outs have
something
absurdly de-
cent about
them. The fun
springs from
the actions
rather than
the words, the
appeal is not
so much the
ridiculous as
the grotesque.
There are
other good
reasons for the
success. The
show moves.
“His gestures were bad.”
Only genuine encores are answered and
there are no other delays. In addi-
tion, there is an uncommonly true voice
attached to a rapidly improving young
lady, Angela Parselles; Hilda Waring is
such a good dancer that there is absurdity in
her being in the ballet; Keith Connolly is
another good dancer and, like Miss Waring,
a very bright personality with it; Leon,
Leighton and Le Marr are a sound trio of
acrobatics, and Dan Weldon is a sound char-
acter man. There is a tendency towards a
vile American brand of nasally whining
sloppy songs, particularly by a young man
at the piano. He does this sort of wretched
thing about as badly as it is possible to do
it; but it seems to have a public. In any
case, there is plenty of Phillips and Beck
and the other good ones to weigh down little
things of that knd.
* * *
“The Duchess of Dantzic,” at Sydney
Majesty’s, is a typical example of the Firm’s
choicely-turned-out, beautifully-dressed brand
of musicomedy. Pending arrival of “The
Love Race,” set down for a brief Brisbane
season, with Gus Bluett, Leo Franklyn,
Frith and Elsie Prince, gives “The Duchess”
no hope of a long reign. It deserves better.
As well as being unusually effective as a
spectacle, it has a dazzling array of names
in the cast. A few of them: Dorothy Brun-
ton (better than ever she was) ; Herbert
Browne (singing as this listener had not
heard him sing before, and strutting on the
job like an operatic tenor) ; Cecil Kellaway
(who does not appear capable of acting other
than well) ; Frank Bradley (of whom the
same can be said with knobs on) ; Sidney
Burchall; Romola Hansen. Altogether it is
a pretty production; bright, vivacious, clean
as a flowering peach and colorful as a
flapper’s clothes-line.
if- * *
At the Town Hall, Melbourne, Mischa
Levitzki continues to surprise audiences
that could be bigger by his Fantasia and
Fugue on the theme of “God Save the King.”
After this display of showmanship he
usually turns to some of the more popular
of Beethoven’s greater works, such as the
Waldstein, and immediately all showmanship
disappears.
. Mischa plays Beethoven as no previous
pianist who has visited Melbourne of recent
years has played him, and sundry local
critics have come to the conclusion that he
plays him wrongly. Present writer keeps an
open mind on the subject. It may be that
previous virtuosi merely followed the canons
of orthodoxy, like eminent actors when they
play “Hamlet.” It may be that Levitzki has
brought a fresh and original mind to the
business, and it may be he plays Beethoven
as Beethoven meant himself to be played.
At least, it may be said that he plays him
with real emotion and no sentimentality;
and technical difficulties don’t exist for him.
For sheer manual dexterity nothing could
exceed the little man’s achievement in
Chopin’s “Polonaise”—the, one in which the
Polish composer advocates revolution so
frankly that if a Young Nationalist under-
stood music he would want to throw stink-
bombs at the Steinway.
* * *
The Joan and Betty Rayner enterprise,
at present camped at Scots’ Hall, Melbourne,
continues to attract full houses. “Masks,
Moods and Music,” purporting to be an
attempt to recreate the Orient, was not as
pleasurable an evening as the French and
English ones—to the present commentator,
at any rate —possibly because it did not re-
create any. Orient with which he was cog-
nisant. Gilbert, Sullivan and others have
fastened so many ridiculous conventions on
the East that a realist who attempted to
depict it as it is would immediately become
incomprehensible. Nevertheless, the Rayner
ladies are too clever not to break new
ground somewhere or other. One instance
was the story of the Chinese girl who found
difficulty in obtaining a lover owing to the
unfortunate circumstance that a white mis-
sionary had prevented her mother from bind-
ing her feet in accordance with ancient cus-
tom. > ‘The Turkey Factor” was another
amusing item portrayed by the T.O.Y. people
with all their humorous inconsequence and
their astounding economy of scenery.
Tl \ e r e , l ? tertailling sllow has impressed itself
on .Melbourne to such an extent that
matinees and indefinite extensions of the
season are being announced nightly.
* * *
Melbourne Tiv, continues to hold, the fort
for vaudeville, one of the latest additions
to the garrison being Lily Moore, sister of
Carrie, an engaging comedienne whose spiri-
tual home is Bloomsbury (Lon.). Miss
Moore specialises in after-dinner yarns, and,
remarkable to relate, they are as likely to
raise unaffected laughs in the vicarage as in
tbe club smoking-room. Also on the bill are
~he Kremlin Four, three men and a missile
Which in its moments of comparative rest is
seen to be a woman of considerable charm.
Ballad-singer Amy Rochelle also flings a
grenade or two on behalf of the defence;
Mario plays on and sings to a portable Town
Hall organ, and there are Afrikander Meek-
m s lions and tigers and Danny D’Alma’s
performing dogs and ponies, and Roy Ryan,
the bird-call imitator, who brings wild life
on to the stage without the smells. The
Bulletin didn’t stop to see the Ten Mel-
bourne Marvels. The daily changes in the
political situation satisfy all its present
cravings for the marvellous.
* * *
Gilsullivan fanciers in Melbourne are
hereby, warned that the last opportunity to
hear Leo Darnton sing “A Pair of
Sparkling Eyes” as it has seldom been
sung before occurs on Friday. On
Saturday “The Gondoliers” will push
off and “The Pirates of Penzance”
pour on at the Royal. “Trial by
Jury” will make a double bill of it.
The wear and tear on the stair car-
pets at the Royal is said to be ter-
rible, packed houses having been the
rule since the present
company revealed its
excellence. «
* * ¥
The Spanish bro-
thers Quintero were
Adelaide Repertory’s
first choice for the
season; in their
v rtun o . , comedy “One Hundred
Years Old . Spanish well-to-do middle-class
family life is treated in the Robertsonian or
Grumpy spirit. Juan, the centenarian, is
aC j lve , cunning towards his two
ends, the mating of two pet descendant
cousins and the family gathering of all the
irreconcilables. And the authors, with
almost incredible pluck, have not made him
die as a cheap final curtain. Frank Part
gave a thoughtful and effective study of this
difficult character, with Betty Dawson and
Cyril Riley (a valuable recruit) as the
youngsters. A pleasant story, well acted all
round, with some rollicking low-comedy near
the end by Ethelwyn Robin and Frank
Johnston.
* * #
Roy Shepherd, who has been winning gol-
den opinions abroad as a coming pianist,
captured a large
audience at Mel-
bourne Audi-
torium with his
very first notes.
The 01 ar k e
scholar is un-
doubtedly a
highly - gifted
pianist. His
programme in-
cluded Cesar
Franck’s “Pre-
lude” • Chorale
and Fugue—
which he made
a rich blend of
mysticism and
colorful spec-
tacle, a well-
mixed panel of
Chopin, and a
new and fiery
set of varia-
tions by Paul
Dukas. In all cases he showed he knew
to a nicety when he pressed a key what way
the note would emerge and how all the
notes should fit into the general scheme.
“Sons o’ Guns,” at His Majesty’s, is the
best show Brisbane has had for some time.
Result: full houses. The next offering will
be “The Love Race,” for the first time in
Australia.
The Palette,
The indefatigable and appropriately-named
Jessie C. A. Traill, who a year or so ago
penetrated with her paintbox to the wilds
of Alice Springs, has been hunting artistic
big game in Europe, and the pelts have been
on show at Studio 14, Collins-street. Miss
“A touching rendering
of the simple-minded,
honest monarch.
Traill has a fond-
ness for bridges,
and depicts them
more with the eye
for detail of an
engineer than with
the feeling for gen-
eral character of
an artist. She
will shortly hold
an exhibit solely
devoted to views
of the Sydney mon-
ster in various
stages of develop-
ment.
Charles Bryant,
the marine painter,
who is going back
to Europe to find
some more pictur-
esque patches, had
a show of his re-
cent work at
Rubery Rennet’s
gallery in Sydney.
The best thing in
a collection of un-
even quality was
his colorful “Sum-
mer’s Eve,” which
was hung by the
Royal Academy
and has been pur-
chased for the Aus-
tralian Art Gal-
lery.
The Australian
Water-color Insti-
tute’s show at the
Education Depart-
ment’s gallery
in Sydney contained an unusually high per-
centage of pictures that “click.” Rural land-
scapes predominated, with a fair sprinkling
of city subjects and a few figure and still-
life studies. From a pedagogic standpoint the
most important thing on the walls was J. R.
Eldershaw’s large composition, “Richmond,
Tas.,” dominated by a bridge and a river. This
picture proves what it used to be the ambition
of every water-colorist to prove—that the
richest effects and the profoundest depths of
tone attainable in oils can be very nearly
achieved by the user of non-greasy pigment
if he thoroughly knows his onions. The con-
verse proposition that water-color has a field
of its own that cannot be successfully invaded
by. the paletteers was demonstrated in the
dainty Kate Greenawayish wash-drawings of
Gladys Owen and the sparkling color-essays
of such painters as Harold Herbert, H. R.
Gallop, C. E. S. Tindall. H. W. Grace and
M. .J. McNally. B. E. Minns covered a
varied range of subjects, and was at his best in
such pictures as “The Ford” and “Coaching
Days,” in which scenes from tbe past are
depicted with grace and vigor. Norman Lind-
say’s two compositions were not explained by
their titles. “Modern Girls” is a tableau of
vamping pulchritude in the characteristic
Lindsay poses, but there’s nothing very
modern about Eve in undress. “Man’s Hap-
piness,” judging by the expression of the
central figure, isn’t worth striving for, which
is possibly what the artist intended to convey.
Old Sydney— most picturesque where it
was most squalid—has provided Lionel Lind-
say with material for countless sketches in
ink and pencil and for a prolific crop of
etchings. A batch of this work now on view
in the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, impels
one to rise up and thank whatever gods
there be that the new Sydney has not yet
entirely overlaid the old, and that an artist
so well equipped to capture the spirit and the
charm of the landscape of yepterday has per-
petuated so much that has gone. The National
Art Gallery trustees have established a new
and commendable record for themselves by
purchasing seven of these pictures. One can’t
quarrel with their choice on aesthetic grounds,
but if they had overlooked the picturesque
bits from foreign parts and concentrated on
the. old Sydney pieces they would have earned
a little more gratitude from Australian pos-
terity.
The most arresting thing in Blamire
Young’s show at Melbourne Fine Arts is the
pair of pincers in the hands of the sturdy
British yeoman who is assisting to lift the
Saviour down in “The Descent from the
Cross.” As far as present critic know T s this
is the first attempt of an Australian painter
to depict the Resurrection in modern cos-
tume, and that fact is its principal merit.
For the rest Young’s decorations remain as
handsomely ornate as ever, but observers
who have been watching this master of
melodrama embroidering the same variations
for many years past are apt
to feel impatient. Even a
moderate acquaintance with
the subtleties of real light and
the beauty of natural color
will make the observer dis-
satisfied with the theatrical illu-
mination which sits on Young's
landscapes, and scarcely any
knowledge of the human form
at all is necessary for one to
“A dragon known as the Financial Incubus.”
see that the nude in No. 7 is bulging where
she shouldn’t, in a most distressing planner.
Young is deft in the manipulation of water-
color, but if the result is great art, as asserted
by some eminent critics, then the wurlitzer
playing “Silver Hairs Amongst the Grey”
is great music.


THE SAME MELODY.
“Communism has killed the grand old Labor movement.”— Gabb, M.H.R.
MUSICAL ENTHUSIAST: “But he’s singing ‘The Red Flag.’”
WORKER: “Quite correct, Mum. That’s the song the cow died of.”
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Swindling British Workers
Dear Bulletin, — I heard the speech deliv-
ered by Mr. Lang in the Melbourne Stadium,
and the reply of Mr. S. M. Bruce thereto,
both by wireless. Neither of them, appeared
to notice the German indemnity as even a
partial set-off against the war-debt interest
bill. Neither of them mentioned that mil-
lions of British working men and women,
through the National Health Insurance Fund
Commissioners, have had some of their accu-
mulated subscriptions invested in N. S.
Wales, other State and Commonwealth
securities. The British Commissioners have
shown preference for long-dated inscribed
stocks. One of the large items selected by
them was N. S. Wales Government 5 per
cent. 1945-65; another, the Commonwealth
5 per cent, registered stock 1945-75.
The statement of accounts published in
1929 by the British Minister of Health
exhibits a list of securities held by him on
behalf of the various National Health Socie-
ties, which then comprised 17,500,000
persons entitled to benefits. These millions
of poor people are thus included in Mr,
Lang’s “Shylocks” and “hungry bondholders” ;
it is their money which has been invested in
N. S. Wales and Commonwealth securities.
They are the folk N.S.W. Labor would
swindle. Thousands of them are now too
old for sickness benefits, but are coming due
for small contributory pensions.
In the list of securities four lines are devoted
to Commonwealth, ten to N. S. Wales,
four to Queensland, five to South Aus.,
three to Tas., seven to Vie. and six to
Westralian stocks. It is odd that the Pre-
mier of the most favored State should be
the first in the history of the Empire to
play the “scaler’s” game.
Thus these provident working-class folk in
England arc dependent on the investment
interest to provide their compensation while
Mr. Lang is reaching the allotted span of
life. On hearing of his default scheme they
will doubtless wonder whether Mr. Lang is
really a Labor man or merely a carbuncle
on “the movement,” as suggested by Mr.
A. P. Herbert, of “Punch.”—Yours etc.,
James S. Inch.
The Price of Petrol
The Commonwealth Government’s inquiry
into petrol prices was an incomplete one;
the special committee which investigated
was hampered by the refusal of one of the
importing cos, to allow access to its books.
The committee, however, ascertained that
on any basis of computation the Shell and
Vacuum Cos. are making very substantial
profits. _ The affairs of the Commonwealth
Oil Refining Co. were not investigated.
According to the committee ie should be
possible to land first-grade (presumably
refined) petrol in Australia for 3.855 d.
per gallon. The Shell Co. says that in
November last it paid 8.106 d. per gallon
and the Vacuum Co. estimates its cost at
the same time at 6.805 d., to which duty—7d.
per gallon, plus 21- per cent, ad valorem —
exchange at 9 p.c., wharfage, landing and
distributing costs had to be added. These
items in the case of the Shell Co. brought
the price up to 22.423 d. per gallon, and in
the case of the Vacuum Co. to 19.471cH per
gallon. The selling price of first-grade petrol
in both instances was 26d. per gallon, so
on the cos.’ own showing there is a profit of
close on 16 p.c. in the case of the Shell Co.
and of 831 p.c. in the case of the
Vacuum Co. on petrol sold to-day that
was imported under November conditions.
There is a considerable disparity in the dis-
tribution costs of the two concerns, Shell
putting it at 6.128 d. per gallon and Vacuum
at 4.564 d.
An examination of the books of the C.O.R.
would probably have cast a lot more light
on the subject. This co., in which the Federal
Government owns half the shares plus one,
the remainder being held by the Anglo-Per-
sian Oil Go., which supplies the raw petro-
leum, has been refining since 1924. Its profits
on the last four years have averaged £50,000
p.a., but it has not yet paid a dividend. Its
price generally undercuts that of the other
cos. by 2d. a gallon. Details of its output
and distributing costs have never been pub-
lished. According to the Commonwealth
Statistician refined petrol, benzine, etc., im-
ported during 1929-30 cost 7.35 d. per gallon,
this price being cost to importer f.o.b. at
port of export, plus a 10 p.c. allowance for
freight. Raw petroleum landed cost works
out at 2.19 d. per gallon, and this escapes
the 7 p.c. duty on refined spirit, so that the
C.O.R. has a nice little margin for refining
costs. The question arises as to why, instead
of putting its profits back into the business
for seven years, it has not cut the price to an
extent that would have been of real benefit
to the Australian public.
“Adelaide”: A bright spot in S.A. is the
present rush on the two big woollen mills,
Onkaparinga and Torrenside. Both are work-
ing overtime, and taking on more hands.
Retailers have waited to see if winter wool-
lens would be worn, and evidently are now
confident on that point.
❖ ;j:
“R.S.C.”: Why not tax dividends and
interest at the source? Savings bank in-
. terest, for example; if the bank deducted
tax from interest the Treasury would get
the revenue; in many cases under the present
system it doesn’t. And the same applies to
Government bonds. I have five kids and
all have a few pounds’ worth. They escape
tax of every kind, but why should they?
•*» v
“Jack Point”: A new brand of tobacco
has come on the market in Queensland. It
is made from leaf grown and cured and
packed locally. And in the quest for a
euphonious name that would conjure up in
Queenslanders’ minds visions of their beloved
State, the manufacturers chose “Sonny
Boy.”
* * * *
“Wodgil”: There have been several pars.
in The Bulletin about tung-oil production
in Australia. H. Rawes Whittell, of Sydney,
has a fine showing of tung-oil trees at Pen-
nant Hills; one tree, three years old, pro-
duced over 100 fruit, each containing five oil
nuts; at five years it had grown to a height
of 30 feet and had 427 fruit on it. A com-
pany, Tung Oil (Aust.), Ltd., is commer-
cialising and extending the enterprise on the
bond principle; using seed from the Pen-
nant Hills nursery, it plans to plant 100
acres this year, and 300 acres by 1935
chiefly on selected land near Bundanoon It
also has ideas about the introduction of
the Soya bean. There is a fair market for
tung oil in Australia, and a much better
one abroad.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Jackaburra”: Nothing could be more con-
demnatory of political control of our rail-
ways than the fact that a carrier with a
2-ton truck can compete with them on a
200-mile journey. And the remedy is not
to tax the carrier out of existence but to run
the railways on business lines. Seldom
does one see the case for the earner pre-
sented. I know many who work a dozen
hours a day in order to pay off the money
owing on their trucks. I’ve seen them unload-
ing and loading up again after a long trip in
wretched weather, and starting off once more
to keep faith with customers. And I’ve seen
44-hour-week railwaymen loafing—hundreds
of them.
* * * - *
“Caco” : Regarding the prospect of using
fine limestone from the Barrier Reef (B.
25/3/’3l), the 8.H.A.5.. Port Pirie, has,
since 1917, been using a limestone sand from
Wardang Island in Spencer Gulf in the sin-
tering of lead ores. The probability that
any sand occurring on that island might be
limestone was raised after a visit to Port
Lincoln, when two officials of the co. with
some knowledge of geology noted that the
beach sand there was practically all lime-
stone. Wardang is directly opposite Port
Lincoln. After samples had been analysed and
found to be practically pure limestone, it
was the writer’s job to proceed to the island
and peg out 17 claims, which contain suffi-
cient sand to provide the co. with limestone
for the life of the Broken Hill mines. One
wonders if the farmers in the Port Lincoln
district have ever made use of this powdered
limestone, so readily procurable and so
eminently useful in their agricultural opera-
tions. Possibly records of occurrences of
other limestone sands may be found in
reports of Geological Survey Departments.
* * * *
“Wessex”: Among the delicacies which
have disappeared from city grocers’ shops
since Scullin shut down on imported luxuries
which could be done without are cheeses of
the Stilton and Gorgonzola brands which
used to have a ready sale at 4s. a pound or
so. Some enterprising vendors have very
sensibly seized the opportunity to push the
sale of Australian “Cheddar.” Capital cheese
it is, too, both to the eye and taste, but I can
never quite understand why a good local
name isn’t found for it instead of one lifted
from far-off Somerset. Possibly it is because
Cheddar has come to represent a certain
quality of cheese, mild and owing nothing to
adventitious aids, rather than a distinct
variety. Yet the original Cheddar was and is
a distinct variety, as much as the less-heard-
about-nowadays Cheshire or double-Glouces-
ter, and more than one attempt has been made
in England to prevent the name being fastened
on cheese from other parts of the country.
Australian cheese doesn’t taste any better
for being called Cheddar any more than
butter would taste better for being called
Dorset.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A vein worth working these
hard times is the old novel. England has
a craze for first editions, without regard to
anything but rarity. Port Adelaide Institute
has had a windfall through the business
sagacity of Edward Morgan, a young lawyer
lately made lion. sec. He found in the base-
ment a mass of long-discarded novels, and
picked out a batch for sale in London. The
results were surprising, a very ordinary
Gissing, for example, bringing £5. The pick
of the lot was a Trollope, one of his worst,
but early and rare —£22 10s.
* * * *
“Point 047” : While law reform is in the
air in N. S. Wales, what about an over-
haul of jury fees? In a recent protracted
Supreme Court case they reached £3 2s. 6d.
per day. No interfere'nce with private
affairs justifies such allowances, even if the
country doesn't pay them! Apropos, is it
beyond human ingenuity to devise a plan
whereby in these hard times juries may be
chosen from unemployed of all ranks?
Australian timbers of the decorative type
have been finding favor abroad of late years,
especially in connection with veneers. Now
comes news from London that a large firm
of English gunmakers are so satisfied with
a trial consignment of Tasmanian myrtle
for gun-stocks that a second order has been
placed. The trade requires not only a
utility wood for this purpose, but one which
is also of handsome appearance. For many
generations English walnut has been the only
wood considered. This is getting scarce.
British makers of high-class guns practically
monopolise the world’s markets, and the
demand for “stock” timber is constant and
growing slowly.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Forest Products Divi-
sion has sent to a wall-board manufacturing
plant in Cleveland, Ohio, several tons of
karri, jarrah and N.S.W. blackbutt. These
have been made into highly satisfactory insu-
lating boards and hard lining boards, but as
almost any sort of sawmill waste can be used
to make some sort of wall-board that doesn’t
prove much. There was some idea of start-
ing a wall-board industry in Australia, but
the trouble is that the necessary plant is
extensive and expensive and the domestic
demand small. One of the big American
mills could turn out in a week Australia’s
supply for a year. Still it is considered
possible to design a low-capacity mill that
will meet the case. Another little venture
of the Forest Products Division is the search
for an Australian timber suitable for lead-
pencils. A lead-pencil factory is in operation
in Sydney, and it lias to import Florida
cedar, supplies of which are nearly exhausted.
H*
“Wheatear” : According to Mussolini, one
reason, if not the main reason, for the fall
in the price of wheat is that the world, grow-
ing better fed with the rolling years, has
ceased to hold bread and kindred products
in the estimation they once commanded. If
the countries that consume most wheat per
head of population are the most frugally-fed
ones, the standard of living must be lower in
Egypt than anywhere else. The kingdom of
the Pharaohs is one of our good customers
for wheat. Yet it is a rich agricultural coun-
try in its own right, irrigation having added
millions of acres to its cultivable land. It is a
curious reflection that the country where the
cultivation of wheat and barley first began,
in the dim dawn of history, the country that
was for centuries the granary for a good
deal of Asia, should have itself become an
importer of wheat on a vast scale. Is
it because the old fare, which other nations
have begun to find monotonous, remains good
enough for the mass of the population?


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122.132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
!' ;fs
tiWM
«* .?* II!?Hi!
SP
rrM
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff. Bay. Week.
Single Room and Meals .. • • 25/* 168/-
Double Room and Meals .. . • 45/- 300/-
Single Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
HTfi
I*l
S'"
theai^
centre
Two Exclusive Features.
First; the perfect site, the convenience of which
contributes so much to the comfort of 'our
guests. Second: '
Reduced. Tariff —"Room Only” Rates.
Single Room .. . . .. from 12/ per day
Double Room .. .. . ... from 22/6 per day
Breakfast,
• 2/- and 3/6; "and d la carte.
. Light Luncheon,
»« the Winter Garden, 2/6.
Address:-
“ Austraotel , Sydney."
Hotel
The Hotel'of the
Commonwealth,
. Sydney,
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc. <
ABORIGINALITIES
“Curroo” : Some builders came from the city
to do a job in our part of the country. Among
them was a chap who had never been in the
bush before and wanted to find out all about
NO NEED TO LOOK ANY FURTHER.
“Can you tell me if there are any bush-flowers about here, little girl?”
“My word! Plenty pfeller tellit me I’m bush-pflower.”
it. One Sunday, against advice, he took his
lunch and started off for a walk; and speedily
got slewed in the scrub. Whilst looking for
a way out he came upon a mob of sheep
in a small open patch. Having heard what
contrary brutes sheep were,, and how they
always went the wrong way. he gave a shout,
watched the way the sheep went and started
off in the opposite direction. He got back
to the camp.
* * * *
“Piecrust”: The crowd in the pub were
discussing the possibility of oil being found
m Australia, and Long Larry chipped in with
the assertion that it would be. “What’s.more,”
he added. " 1 once found an oil-well meself.
I was working with another bloke for the
hardest skinflint of a cocky I’d ever struck.
He liad us out at four o’clock every morning,
and we were in the barn every night, doin’
odd jobs with kerosene-lanterns to help us.
The mate and me found the oil one morn-
ing, coming up through a. little hollow in one
of the paddocks. So we got the first load of
dirt we could, and tipped it on and hid the
place.” “Then yer were both mad,” said a
disgusted voice. “Mad?” said Larry explo-
sively. “Didn’t I tell you the boss had us
wprking by lamp-light every night? It was
only the.price of oil that made the old darl-
ing turn ’em out at eleven o’clock!”
* * .* *
“Diba Tau”: A dispenser of justice in
Papua is asked some weird questions. “Tau-
bdda, will the Government be angry if I take
another wife?” queried a court interpreter.
“No,” was the reply; “it’s your business;
but what do you want two women for? You
can only keep one on the station.” “My
woman can’t make New Guinea saucepans; I
want to buy one who can.” “But what about
the Mission? You are married along church.”
“True, Taubada, I savvy I spoil my soul,
hut I shall (jet saucepans 7”
* * * «
“C. Coral”: The. inventor who will pro-
duce an infallible cockroach destructor will
confer a great boon upon humanity, and
especially that part of it which is'condemned
to roam about in ships. Nothing has so
far proved successful in eradicating the
brutes. Recently my vessel—a 20-ton ketch
; —was given: three goes of cyanide treatment
in succession, at short intervals. After the
third operation ,1 found half a dozen of the
filthy things sitting on my pillow grinning
malevolently. They regard the poison sprays
of commerce much as we do a fresh-water
shower-bath on a hot day, and after you
have dosed a running squad they come
along looking for a hairbrush to smooth
down their moist feelers. Every cranny is
seized as a bed-sitting-room by Mr. and
Mrs. ’Roach. I have to dislodge eggs
from my clothing after it has been hung up
at night, while a pair of socks is so full
of holes that it looks like a foot-covering for
a centipede. Corks are eaten out of bottles,
and it is quite a common thing to see a
couple of ’roachs perched on the ink-bottle
swizzling ink; result, filthy black spots
(for which I was at a loss to account for
some time) all over white suits. What’s
the use of the Commonwealth Scien-
tific Research Bureau if it can’t kill
cockroaches?
* * * *
“Jacques P.”: Tell “Say Bo” (B.
8/4/’81) that if he wants Australian
songs there are parts of the continent
where he can hear plenty. Were he
to visit the camp-fires of the sheep
country west of the Darling Downs
(Q-), and the north-west plains of
N.S.W., he would hear “Waltzing
Matilda,” “On the Banks of the
Murray” and “The Road to Gundagai”
much more often than “the cacophony
of imported jazz,” which causes him
EXPLAINED.
STEVE (all efforts to drown the cat having proved futile): “Gee! He’s a better swimmer
than most cats.”
GINGE: “Well, o’ course he is — ain’t he something out of the bag?”
annoyance. There he would hear also a
ribald but rousing chorus which ends with
“And Well-town is my sta-shun.” Coarse,
vigorous lampoons and burlesque poems are
often recited at these camp-fire gatherings.
A favorite one commences: “This ’ere is
Cobb and Co.’s station, where there’s never
no water nor grass.” Followring which is a
complaint about being re-
fused rations. After that
it gets very Rabelaisian.
* *
“Tiki” : Zane Grey, whose
revenue and fame are derived
from, pathetic stories about
persons who wander in
thirsty deserts with faithful
mules, has of late •: been
spending most of his time in
Maoriland, where he hunts
the tuna and the mako,
making use of luxurious
launches, with swivel' chairs
to ,sit in and electric' cranes
to haul aboard his, trophies.
His‘newest ship, the Frangi-
pani, built at Auckland, is
the last word in plate-glass
and oak-panelled i magnifi-
cence. Rut tho r e are
crumpled rose-leaves in his
downy bed. ,An unimpressed
Government, refused to allow
him to make Great. Mercury
Island his headquarters,. arid
now a Maori lander, Wick-
ham White, 1 has gone and
busted ; all the American’s
records by catching a 7981 b.
mako shark without the aid
of panelling, electric cranes,
plate-glass. or swivel chairs.
■Mr. Grey'is displeased about,
this:; /‘He says the outside
world will laugh at the
alleged record, because this
;’wricked, White had a harpoon
in • his boat. The Bay of
•Islands Swordfish ■ and Mako
Shark , . Club, - however, says
itf is .a perfectly good record,
arid;-resents the imputation
that its members are un-
sportsmanlike. So far Presi-
dent Hoover hasn’t inter-
vened, but there’s no doubt
something terrible is going to happen to
the Shivery Isles.
* * * *
“Heliograph”: Let me add to “Dr. Nil’s”
story of the strange effects of physical
exhaustion (B. l/4/’3l) my own experience
as a youngster in the 10th Light Horse. We
were in the Magdhaba ride to attack the
entrenched Turks. When I dismounted for
a brief respite after days and nights of hard
riding and sleeplessness my horse required
propping up with my rifle to keep him on
four pins. Started again, the whole process
of forward movement seemed to me to be
reversed. The whole cavalcade seemed to
be moving backward. I rubbed my eyes, and
took a swig from the water-bottle, but still
the cursed thing persisted. I nibbled an iron-
ration biscuit, and put up a hard mental
struggle to regain normality, which came
back all of a sudden. Perhaps the army bis-
cuit did it.
❖ ❖ *
“Dai R.”: Scientists have never been able
to reach a conclusion as to whether opal is
of aqueous or igneous origin. N.S.W. gougers
discuss the - problem enthusiastically, but
almost always -return to an agreement that it
is neither, being due to the presence of some
opalising property in the earth. In support
of this theory, numbers of cases are cited of
the partial opalisation of bottles which have
been left for a few years* in shafts and drives
in opal country. •Exclusion of air seems
essential to the working .of. the influence, for
no signs of the process have been found in
bottles left‘‘for' many years on the unbroken
surface. The same applies .to shells and
bones, any' quantity of which have been dug
up partially .'opalised. • Wood (petrified)_ is
also, though' to,a far less degree,, susceptible
to the influence.. ..
“Wang”: The new hand had a fine flow of
language.-' At- night 'time Mum and Mary
would-sit entranced listening' to him reeling
off verse by the yard, the while Dad sat
gritting his teeth in silent rage. Dad hadn’t
taken, the new hand Am as ah entertainer for
his ■ family, and iwlien they were alone he
said so. What him almost beyond
endurance was the - ability .of the stranger to
rip out a quotation to ; shit every happening
on the’ farm. Coming home’ one evening from
a heavy day’s work, in a 1 distant paddock to
which the new hand’s .contribution seemed to
have been mostly 'quotations and admiration
of the scenery, Dad’s’ patience gave out when
his employee turned to' iiim and remarked
airily, “This reminds ine of that line in Gray's
Elegy, ‘The ploughman homeward plods his
weary way.’” “Oh, does'it?” replied Dad
grimly. “Well, young-feller, I don’t pretend
ter be as well eddicated. as you are, but
there’s one quotation yen-don’t know, though
yer know its author.”' “Ddaresay,” replied
the other with a superior'air: • “There are few
great writers with-whose works I am not
acquainted in some degree. May I ask who
he is?” “It’s me,” replied Dad, grinning
maliciously. “Indeed,” answered the new
hand. “And the quotation?” Dad paused
in the act of unhooking the hames off old
Blossom’s collar. “It’s this,” he said. “Yer’ll
soon be on th’ thirsty track. Ter-night yer
get th’ blanky sack.”
THE WOODCUTTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Arf a quid to swing an axe ten long hours
a day.
’Arf a note to break yer backs—isn’t life a
play?
Sweatin’ till you melt like wax, while the
azes sway.
Jist a bloomin’ crude machine,
Jist a common clod,
Toilin’ where the world As green
An’ the flowers nod.
Numbin’ mind an’ body, too —there’s no time
to think;
Doin’ what you ’ave to do jist for food an’
drink;
tendin’ saws a-gratin’ through, watchin’
keen blades sink.
Birds are callin’ round about. Thrushes lift
their song,
Magpies’ notes are rollin’ out free an’, full
an’ strong,
Jackies in a messmate stout laughin’ loud
an’ long.
Nothin’ troubles them, it seems l —all their
life’s a ’ymn. -
They ain’t cursed be ’opes and dreams,
’auntin’-like an’ dim.
’Qw that dam’ saw rasps and screams
through that knotty limb!
Out where all the world is sweet
An’ the flowers nod.
Blisterin’ ’ands an’ achin’ feet!
Jist a common clod.
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


ADELAIDES Best Value Hotel
Courteous Service
from a staff of sixty
mgw
m
S
Prompt, efficient,
courteous attention is
assured at the Gros-
venor from the time
you enter until you
leave. A staff of
sixty people offers
service with a smile.
300 rooms, 100 bath-
rooms. Yale locks on
all doors. Fire-proof
throughout. Courteous
service. Meals a la
carte from 1/6. £3/10/-
weekly. Bed and
Breakfast from 6/6.
S
Crosvenor
NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
Oi'i'OSITE RAILWAY STATION
Britain’s best pump gives
double pressure with
half the effort
Recognised to be the “Master”
Foot-pump by all motorists. Two
pumps in one, with a patent super-charged action, a
push-on connector that fits all valves, and an accurate
direct-action pressure gauge. These are the unique fea-
tures which make the British KISMET-DUPLEX the
best tyre-pump in the world. • - .
KISMET
DUPLEX “MASTER"
FOOT - PUMP
d
df
in One
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
m. TURNER & BRO., LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
ďf
price, wrrn
GAUGE, 84/-
Factory Representative:
MR. JOHN ARNOLD, G,P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
IN-BUILT QUALITY
To produce a smooth-working, power-
ful and durable windmill, there must
be plenty of accurate machine-tool
work put into it; lathes, boring
machines, milling machines, gear-cut-
ting machines must contribute each
their full quota to accurate finish of
parts, which combine to form a fine
mechanical product such as the Sky
Windmill.
MORE FINE MACHINE - TOOL
WORK GOES INTO THE SKY
THAN INTO ANY OTHER WIND-
MILL MADE.
Bronze bearings machined inside and out, in
machined housings; gears machine-cut, assembly
casting bored and faced, and so on.
If we put in the work, you must take
out the service.
SKY WINDMILL CO.,
56 DAY STREET, SYDNEY.
FREIGHT FREE INTERSTATE.
“Palanda”: Abo. lingo is not devoid of its
rules of syntax, and the vocabulary, is by
no means limited. The Melville Island natives
apply genders to ; adjectives, and have. differ-
ent. tenses for different periods' of 1 the • day.
If one wants to Say “Come here” the expres-.
sion “To warri par” is used in the'early
part of the day; in, the .middle of the day
it is expressed “Toob warri; par,” and at
night time it is “Tib bog ne par.” There are
many words for which we'have no equiva-
lent, such as different nouns that express a
married woman without a child, with a son,
with a daughter, with a son and daughter,
and so on. There are usually at least two
words meaning the same thing, owing to
the fact that when anyone dies his name and
any words closely resembling it become
“puckamani” or taboo. A good example
occurred in the writer’s camp when a boy
named Moolaginya died. Moolaginya’ meant
“full up” (from a gastronomic viewpoint),
and when the bearer of the name made his
exit a new word had to be coined so that
anyone who had eaten his fill could tell
the world. After a period the old word will
come back into use and there will be two
words meaning full up. I spent 11 months
laboriously acquiring a knowledge sufficient
to understand the gist of any conversation
between the natives, but if they did not
want me to understand they used the
Port Essington tongue, a mainland language
they speak in addition to their own. Most
of them also speak English after a fashion,
so there’s nothing to sneer about in their
lingual attainments.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Gelt”: Native missionary preachers are
militant competitors for souls in New
Guinea. Two fiery native catechists of the
Methodist persuasion who came before Wan-
liss, C.J., in Rabaul recently were so incensed
at the advent of Rome’s gospeller that they
destroyed his dwelling-house “out of spite
and ill-will,” as the C. J. put it. A somewhat
similar action in Bougainville a few years
ago almost precipitated a tribal war and
necessitated a special commissioner being
dispatched to inquire into matters. Another
case occurred in the North Buka district,
when native followers of John Wesley
desecrated the R.C. cemetery. It is a
pity the Administration has not followed
Papua’s example and marked off areas in
which each sect may carry on its proselytis-
ing activities.
* * * *
“Ungurra”: It \is the fashion now to
deplore the shooting of abos. in the early
days, but there were times when it was a
case of shoot or be speared. David Lind-
say, the explorer,. had an experience of that
sort on one of his. trips into Arnhem Land
in 1888. Eor days blacks had dogged his
party’s steps. Matters came to a head when,
finding further progress blocked for the time
being by a high bar across the sandy bed of
the river up which they were riding, the
expedition pitched camp. Within an hour
the abos. could be heard “yackoying” in the
scrub upon both sides of the river, while a
big buck, who had suddenly appeared upon
a distant ‘ rise and stood with an arm around
a screw-palm, was obviously waving instruc-
tions to surround the camp. “This is getting
serious,” said Lindsay. “Try and put a
stop to that fellow over there, Rennie.”
Jack Rennie put up his Webley rifle, took
careful aim, and fired. The abo. leader, who
must have been 400 yards away, turned
suddenly to look at the palm, then fell
prone and lay still —and that was the last
Lindsay’s party saw of the blacks on that
trip.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Yexam” (B. 15/4/’3l)
may be correct in his contention that the
kookaburra “wasn’t christened ‘jackass’ by
any bushman,” but I question whether the
name was provided by a member of the
D’Entrecasteaux-Kermadec expedition. I
worked in various parts of the Tasmanian
bush, including the north and west coasts,
for close on two years, and never saw or
heard a kookaburra. I suggest . that the.
bird the Frenchmen saw was the Der-
went jackass, and not the kookaburra. There
may be some justification for labelling the
DOWN AND OUT.
COHRN: “Pizness lookin’ up, Isaac?”
ISAAC: “Yah, my frien’, it’s lookin’ up all right—from der flat of its back.”
THEY LET HIM DOWN.
WIFE: “You inebriated, intoxicated, drunken soak!”
THE PRODIGAL: “I’ll (hic) never believe in cloves again!”
kookaburra’s small cousin as a chatterer, but
there is no similarity whatever between Big
Jack’s hilarious outpourings and the gabble
of a “chattering girl.”
* * * *
“Irawuni” : Derby. North Westralia, has its
own pet aboriginal leper: tied up in the hos-
pital back yard. Owners of a
lugger and a truck have asked
£l5O and £2OO respectively to
take him up to Darwin or down
to Cossack, where there are
lazarettes, so the fantastic little
town on the marsh elects to
keep .him for economy’s sake.
An amenable soul, he goes and
puts himself on the chain when
his warder happens to be out
late of an afternoon.
:j: *
“Pick”: Bush birds., and
animals occasionally take time
off for recreation. Dingoes play
“chasings.” Wildly careering
around some forest glade they
pursue one another with vigo-
rous determination. When
caught a fugitive is worried
with pretended savagery; then
he springs up and, becomes the
pursuer. When exhausted with
galloping* they back together
with lolling tongues and heaving
flanks in the utmost friendliness.
Emu mobs play 'hide and seek.
Some squat . from sight while
others do- the hunting. They
bound and turn in mid-air to
get a glimpse beyond the reeds
and brambles. On discovering
a hidden player they creep upon
him, finishing the approach with
a sudden rush and guttural
coughs. Wallabies and paddy-
melons play , a kissing game. In
a-dense scrub, with great speed,
they dodge each other among the
thickets.' When two meet face
to face they rub noses and lick
lips, then spring sideways apart
and resume the darting to and
fro. Kangaroos hold athletic
sports. On an open flat they
run races and have jumping
contests. Sometimes, too, when
strange mobs meet they indulge
in mimic warfare. Snarling
hoarsely they grasp each other, wrestle
and pretend to strike with their dagger-like
toes. When tired of the play they stretch
out in the shade, and, before travelling on,
spend an hour in amicable companionship.
Brolgas hold dances. On a level they muster
in hundreds. With partly outstretched wings
they commence a minuet that is singularly
human and extends over hours of fanciful
stepping, bowing and gyrating in the most
graceful’ manner. Then they rise high on
the wing and zoom away, calling to each
other till out of hearing. Hares take on
boxing. Sometimes, though, when there’s
a lady in the case, their lunges are in grim
earnest instead of play.
H*
“Andapal” : The first pale streaks of day-
light are in the east when the traveller in
the “Great Victorian Desert,” which isn’t
in Victoria and isn’t devoid of vegetation,
awakes. He gets out of his blankets and
stirs the blackboy with his foot. The boy
gets up and goes for the camels while the
white man dresses and cooks breakfast. In
half an hour the camels are at the camp.
Breakfast is finished as the sun comes up,
swags are rolled, camels saddled and water-
drums and camel-boxes loaded while the
camels contentedly chew their cud or dis-
contentedly roar or gurgle according to their
moods. When everything is fixed the camels
get up and each camel’s noseline is tied to
the crupper of the one in front. The white
man takes a bearing with a prismatic com-
pass, gives the boy his directions, and
mounts his riding camel, while the boy
mounts the leader of the string; and away
they go across the desert. As far as the eye
can see there are sand, spinifex and occa-
sional clumps of mulga. Here and there
sandhills arise to break the monotony. After
ahout four hours of travelling, undisturbed
excepting for the breaking of a noseline and
occasional directions from the white man, a
clump 'of mulga is reached which offers shade.
Here the camels are “ooshed” and the billy
boiled. After a snack and half an hour's
spell the journey is resumed. An hour’s
travel and a pale blue line of ranges appears
in tlio distance. Altering its course slightly
on goes the little caravan. An emu is seen
in the distance, a willy-willy roars close by,
sucking a column of dust hundreds of feet
in the air. About four o’clock a halt is made,
the camels are “ooshed,” unloaded, hoppled
and let go. A fire is made, salt beef boiled,
a saddle repaired, and swags unrolled.
Supper is cooked and eaten as the sun is
setting. After supper a damper is made, a
couple of pipes smoked and so to bed. The
stars shine overhead, camel bells tinkle in
the distance and an occasional snore is the
only other sound that disturbs the silence
of the great plain.
REGRETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ’Ot, you remark?” said Dhve and wiped
his brow,
“A flamin’ cow!
That’s what it is ; I wouldn’t give a curse
If I was workin’ over by the creek,
But ’ere me waterbag, to make things worse,
’As sprung a leak.
“Now, though I ain’t one of these moanin’
blokes
Who alwuz croaks, -J .
I can’t but think, while I’ve been thirstin’
’ere
An’ watehin’ ’eat waves dancin’.'to an’froj
’Ow often I’ve been asked to sink a beer
An’ answered ho.
“Of course, I don’t mind frankly tellin’ you
I’ve mopped a few.
I've ’ad me share of grog an’ maybe more:
But often, when a bloke-gets pretty full
An’ thinks ’e just can’t hianage an encore,
’E’ll take a pull.
“To-day the thoughts of drinks I could ’ave
’ad
Near drives me mad.
In future, though I’m full as any. tick,
If everyone I meet suggests a pot,
I’ll let me belt out to the furthest nick
Ah’ sink the lot!”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


On April 23 the Government Savings Bank of N.S.W. suspended payments.
- ?
Are any of the other banks likely to do the same?
Can this drift in the public accounts be stopped ?
Is inflation inevitable; if so, who would suffer most from it?
Which companies are likely to come through with the best results?
These, and many other problems of vital interest, are discussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY” for May.
ON
SALE
2nd
MAY
2/-
SINGLE COPY.
22/6
a year post free.
From Newsagents,
or “Bulletin”
Office, Sydney,
Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide,
Perth. . .
SMOKE-OH!
“It’s not hard for me to smell out a Communist.”
•— A.W.U. orator.
Rather remarkable this, considering that
most of them haven’t a Red scent.
THWARTED.
“’Ere’s a notice from the Water Board, ’Erbie— they're gain’ to
cut the water orf next Tuesday!”
“’Ow disappointing—I intended 'avin' a barth then!”
“Wherever a shop exists there is a of
business.” — “Sun.”
Fiduciary shops, so to speak. Anti; like
fiduciary notes, no one will take them.
* *
“Open-air fish restaurants are' all the rage, in
Germany now.”- — Cable.
Well, the Germans always did hanker for
a plaice in the sun.
“The primary producers insist that Government
expenditure be drastically reduced.” —Farmer speaker
at Hay.
The farmer certainly is the man with the
whoa these days.
* *
“A Sydney bard has written a ‘Song of the Depres-
sion.’ ”
Too late. Every other Sydneyite lias been
making a song about it for months.
* *
“Those interested in theatrical enterprises hardly
know how to act.” — “Sun.”
We’ve been thinking it of many of them;
for years.
“It was during a friendly struggle that the fatal
shot was fired. Fortunately the victim hits a good
chance of recovery.”— “Sun.” '■
Like Mark Twain’s death the fatal nature
of the shot was exaggerated.
* *
SONG OF BANGUISH.
When Lang boosts his taxation,
He isn't talking sense;
His plea for more inflation
Is simply pelf-defence.
O. W.
¥
Melbourne clergymen deplore the falling
off of their congregations. Yet many are to
blame for their congregations dropping off.
COMPLIMENTS OF THE SEASON.
“Where did you go for your holidays?”^
“I suppose you’ve paid your income tax?”
“What brand of petrol do you use in the
car now?”
“Lend us a bob.”
“My word, you’re bonzer on the sand
shovel, old man !”
P.
* *
“ ‘We are inclined to say to Lang,’ said the
speaker, ‘ “Physician cube thyself.” ’ ”—“Sun.”
Others are inclined to say, “Square thy
.accounts.”
* •¥
“It is alleged that on wet Saturdays certain
cricketers assembled in the dressing-rooms and
played ‘two-up.’ ” —Sydney cleric.
Any sport in a storm, as the saying goes.
X A!
MISTAKEN
IDENTITY.
- and no
bunkers.”
Something in
Mrs. .Tedbcrry’s
brain snapped as
she burst in and
heard her golf-
mad husb a n d
utter the above
words.
“Heavens !” she
shrieked regard-
less of the pres-
ence: of Jed’s golf-
ing friend, “Will
you never take
an interest in
anything else?.
It’s golf, golf,
golf, morning,
noon and night.
I'm sick an’ ”
“But, my dear,
I really don’t see
what you’re driv-
ing”——-
“There you are.
Driving,” she
shrilled. “Ever-
-1 a s t i n g golf.
Can’t you . stop
it?”
“Good lord,
Millie. I simply
hazard a re-
mark”—
“There’s an-
other of ’em,”
yelled Millie. “Hazards, hazards! And you
were discussing bunkers when I came in.”
“But we weren’t talking golf, darling.”
“N-not talking golf?”
“No, m’dear. Oil-burning steamers.”
Evan Elpass.
“N. S, Wales politicians say that Queenslanders
are coming to Sydney to get the bigger scale of
Government relief payments.”
On the principle “If you know of a better
dole go to it.” '
* *
NOVELTY ROSES FOR 1931 SEASON.
John T. L. —Deep pink, shaded oof-color.
Said by some to he worth its weight in gold.
Flourishes in parts of Sydney, but results
are poor elsewhere.
Thomas Rainsford (Granny’s Boy x
Bob-in Club). —Pure white, but liable to
fade. Tendency to die-back. Doesn’t stand
up to heat well, and seeds quickly. Likes
position on hank of trout-stream, , particu-
larly in Khancoban district.
A.F.A.: —A sport from Crusader of great
promise, quick grower, free branching, habit,
well suited to Australian conditions provided
kept free of fungus growths and parasites.
Worth a trial.
Pride of Kirribilli. —Very showy, poly-
chromatic effect. Curious mixture of red,
pink and white, overshot with gold. Vigor-
ous. First grown in Queensland, but-does
well in N. S, Wales, Canberra or elsewhere
with attention and encouragement.
Souvenir d’lnflation. —Of rank growth.
Pink to red. Thrives on practically no-
thing. Growth similar to Pride of Kirri-
billi (q.v.).
Caledonian Jock (Moscow’s Joy x
Madame Civic). —A deep, fiery crimson, of
climbing habit. Tends to lighten in color
if well fed. Flourishes in Domain, on Yana
Bank, etc. Imported.
S. W. Iv.
¥ *
“Following threats against him by the Labor execu-
tive, Ministers are interestedly watching Mr. Hogan s
stand. ’ ’ — “Herald.”
Mr. Hogan, on the other hand, is inter-
estedly watching his seat.
* *
“Angry Wife: Threw His Clothes at Him.”
— “Sun” heading.
Or, more colloquially, gave him a sock in
the eye.
* #
WAGE-PLUG’S NURSERY RHYME.
Hickory, dickory, dock!
My wages got a shock!
First they were docked, by the Federal gang,
And then came a bob in the pound for Linig.'
* *
“U.S.A, and South American companies, are said
to be conspiring against Australia’s meat trade.”
These plotted meats are a menace, however
you look at them.
¥ *
“Dalrymple deserves to be remembered as the one
man in Australia with sufficient nerve' to extiact
£250 from Sir Harry Launder.” — “Smith’s Weekly.”
The statement simply won’t wash.
* *
•?‘I found my wife and the co-respondent hiding
behind the curtains.” —Melbourne divorce-court evi-
dence.
A case of hide and sheik.
THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH.
“It’s to your father? Oh, then, I suppose
you’ll start, ‘I take my typewriter in
my lap to send you these few lines’?”
CLIMAX.
“Judge a woman by the way she washes her hair'.”
—Melbourne “Argus” advt.
“Darling,” cooed the beautiful maiden,
“what was it that made you love me?” ;
“I adored you the first evening we met,’
replied the ardent youth. “When I saw the
way you applied your Doodle’s Anti-Blackhead
Lotion my heart went out to you in a surge
of affection ; but it was when I observed you
washing your hair with Blimple’s Shampoo
that I knew you were the one woman in all
the world for me.”
Piecrust.
* *
“Research upon diseases incidental to apples in
storage is in progress.”— “Argus.”
The idea being to get at the cores.
NO, THANK YOU.
“Do you remember those cigars I bought
you at Christmas, Uncle?”
“No, dear! Never—if I can avoid it.”
“Mice swarmed into the Loongana (Vic.) railway
office and ate part of a roll of £1 notes.” — “Herald.”
Feeduciary notes, of course.
* ¥
A BRAKE NEEDED.
Some would-be • record-breakers make
Bad breaks on land and foam;
They don’t break records but their necks.
It’s left to those who see their wrecks
To break the news at home.
THE SIMPLE LIVE.
“ * Will you come into my parlor?’”
Said the Cow to the Koala.
”There sweet grass as green as baize is,
Also buttercups and, daisies,
Water clear to drink, and milk
Thick and creamy, soft as silk:
All of these are yours to share
If you’ll be my. Teddy Bear.”
“Cream?” cried Edward. “Milk?” sneered
he.
“ They're no blinking good to me.
Get this underneath your hair:
I am no Cow’s Teddy Bear.
Put, me where the rosy tips
Of young gum-trees tempt my lips.-
These, and dew, I’ll scoff with zest;
You can dashed iccll have the rest.”
MORAL.
If gumtips suit you gumtips be your fare;
So will your sun keep shining.
But, gumtippers, of caviare beware!
’Twill rot your stomach’s lining.
J.D.G.M.
JAZZ IRONY.
At eating-houses, meeting-houses,
Teashops, large and small;
At swagger clubs, and sordid pubs,
And cv’ry dancing hall —
It doesn’t matter where I am,
They’re bound to have a wheezy gram .
At work upon that grim refrain,
“Happy days are here again.”
W.O.
AT THE CENSOR’S.
“There is only one more test for yon to
pass,” said the head examiner
to the applicant for the vacant
position on the- board of Com-
mpnwealth film censors.
“You have been shown three
representative American mov-
ing pictures. In each case your
reaction has been strictly cor-
rect. You have wept tears of
maudlin pity over the indecent
spectacle of Ol Jalson, his eyes
suffused with moisture, warb-
ling ‘Mammy of Mine’ to his
mother seated in the theatre.
As you remarked, it was the
most nauseating display of
greasy sentiment you had ever
witnessed, on the screen or off,
and therefore fit for exhibition
to 100 per cent. Australians be-
tween the mental ages of six
and sixteen. You have express-
ed unreserved approval of
‘Grabbing Gertie’s Garter,’ in
which Greta Gabbler is the
desert siren with tempting lips
and flashing eyes whose insidi-
ous attempt to lure Warner
Backstairs to dishonor is frustrated' by
the pure love and devotion of his
sister. As you so pcnetratingly pointed
out, it was a disgusting and degrad-
ing parade of pornography, perverted ethics,
salacity and false art, snarled through
the noses of effeminate males and female jazz
babies, and your suggestion that it should
only be made available to children from
16 to 60 was understandable, even though it
erred on the side of severity. You announced
yourself as satisfied with ‘Gunning Gunners,’
in which a criminal moron, after committing
14 murders, 17 rapes and debauching New
York with poisoned alcohol, dies a hero’s
death in the electric-chair to save the lover
of one of his mistresses from justice. As
you said, the production could have been
bettered by an educated gorilla, and could
therefore be commended for all classes of
playgoers.
“I am now going to show you a
British picture which has been spoken of
lU'the highest terms by the critics of Copen-
hagen, ■ Bferlin, Paris and London.
“You don’t want to see it? You condemn
it, unseen afid unheard, without the slightest
hesitation? Excellent! Consider yodrself
appointed.”
F.S.
LOVE GAME.
They meet. He loses first his heart,
And seeks to make a splash.
Some solid spadework he effects
In digging up the cash.
A diamond she accepts at last,
And takes him for her hub.;
Then having got him hard and fast
She starts to wield her club.
AMENDED NURSERY RHYME.
There was an old lady
Who lived in a shoe,
She had so many children
It made us say “Phew!”
We sent an inspector
And he, on my soul,
Found the lady was childless —
She %cas after the dole!
COLOR SYMPHONY.
Since reds in polities first rose,
The country each day madder grows.
Cardinal errors sway the mind.
Of those to doctrines pink inclined.
Orators paint in crimson hues
Black facts that give us all the blues.
Grey skies would turn to bright ones soon
If we the cows could but maroon.
P.


m
m
Unsuspected
constipation
is the result of
carelessness
Many people go about habitu-
ally constipated. And the last
thing that nine out of ten of
them will ever admit is consti-
pation. Instead they hide the
weariness of their lives beneath
the smug satisfaction that they
are "knowing" enough to look
after' themselves—and blame
their heavy eyes and pasty
skins on to worry or long hours.
Eno's "Fruit Salt" turns "duty
done" into "duty properly
done." And it does this, not
by shocking the system into
temporary obedience, as all
harsh substitutes do. But—
through a process which doctors
call "osmosis"—by diluting and
thereby completely dismissing
the poisons of stagnation and
leaving your foodways sweet
and clean. Take Eno first thing
every morning—and only Eno.
Violent and habit-forming pur-
gatives do more harm than
oood.
tfsihe words Sno and r,< 2fruit Salt” are registered trade marks. Sales Agents: he ißritish fKarold *3. dlitchie & Go. 3£td. Sydney
ENO S ' FRUIT SAIT
TQ
%o
hs
m
***
v*
*»»
5S
S®*’
A pictorial
guide to
America
FasciNatiNC this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. .Call or write forj
your copy.
Write to Dept. IU4B,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
RCREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Metropolitan Water, Sewerage
and Drainage Board
Sydney
LOAN - - £350,000
(for essential public services).
DEBENTURES issued in denominations of
£lO, £5O and £lOO
Issue Price, £99/10/- per £lOO (payable in full upon application).
REPAYABLE IN TWO YEARS (APRIL, 1933).
INTEREST 6i per cent.
(yielding a return to investor of £6/10/6 per annum).
Guaranteed by the Government of New South Wales.
Applications will be received at the Head Office of the Board, 341
Pitt Street, Sydney, and interest payable half-yearly shall accrue
upon the face value of each application from the date of receipt
by the Board of the purchase .money in respect thereof.
Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lO, £5O and £lOO,
as desired by the applicant.
THE LOAN IS SECURED UPON THE INCOME OF THE
BOARD FROM WHATEVER SOURCE ARISING.
The Board serves an estimated population of 1 \ millions, and has
an annual Revenue exceeding million pounds.
Copies of the Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained
at the Head Office of the Board.
THOMAS ROSEBY, T. B. COOPER,
Secretary. President.
Offices of the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board,
341 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hie Quality Plus
llicih sells for less
JYJADE by Bosch machinery
and production methods,
PYROX offers you the highest
quality of any plug on the
market to-day. And because
it is made in Australia it can
be sold at the lowest price ever
asked for a quality plug.
Fit a set to your car —notice
the difference they’ll make!,
Sold by all progressive garages and accessory houses.
df
Manufactured by PYROX PTY., LTD.
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty., Ltd.), Melbourne.


Queensland Is Calling!
KEEN BUSINESS
MEN KNOW
that Queensland is most favorably
situated of all the States, and are
planning accordingly. They also
know from long experience that
the circulation claims of
The Daily Mail
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
are dependable claims which have
always been supported by un-
deniable proof. They know, too,
that this great newspaper is cer-
tainly unsurpassed as a business
getter by any Queensland publi-
cation.
Rate cards, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.
N.S.W. Branch, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION. LIMITED.
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
s!i.
:
:lir
.
D.
6
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY.
1 ■■■- -
• '
' I: l
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
Rates Reduced ,
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/0 per day, double from
7/6, bed and breakfast from
6/o’ single or 11/6 double.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Inclusive board from
10/6 daily, or 65/- weekly,
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyons’
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
d
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EU
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
PASTURE MANAGEMENT.
“6Q..T.”: Mr. J. N. Wliittet, the N.S.W.
Government Agrostologist, points out in the
“Gazette” that the young, leafy pasture has
the greatest feeding value; this is, particu-
larly so in regard to milk-production. Trials
have shown that the protein content of the
dry matter in fertilised pasturage is consider-
ably greater than in the case of unfertilised
lands. Where nitrogen, phosphoric acid and
lime were used there was a marked improve-
ment in carrying capacity and butter-fat
production.
The system recommended in dairying
centres is to subdivide the grass land into
paddocks varying in size according to the
number of the herd. The general rule on
rich country is to allow’ about 12 cows per
acre, so that a farm carrying 60 cows would
need to be subdivided into five-acre paddocks,
which should open into a lane leading to
the water supply. The cows are run into
these paddocks when the young grass is from
tw T o to three inches high, and are left in for
only two or three days, and then moved
on to the next paddock. Dry cows can be
run in as followers when the flush of grass
has been eaten off, and the dry cows may
in turn be followed by sheep, as practised
in M.D. If any long grass remains when
the stock arc finally removed it should be
cut down with a mower.
These paddocks should be well worked in
the autumn with, a pasture cultivator of the
semi-rigid or stump-jump variety, both ways.
When lime is applied it should be sown with
a fertiliser-distributor a month before the
dressing with super. A pasture harrow
should be used after the fertiliser is distri-
buted ; this harrowing .should be repeated
after each grazing period to break up the
animal droppings and spread them so that
they may be of value as manure, witnout
causing fouling of the grass in the vicinity.
These additional harrowing,s will also help
to disturb the surface of the pasture land
and create a mulch. While the addition of
lime to the pasture may not have any bene-
ficial effect on the growth, it will be of service
to the stock, especially in country where
lime is deficient in the soil.
Dressings of up to 2cwt. per acre of super,
and lewt. per acre of sulphate of ammonia
annually are recommended by Mr. Whittet,
preferably after a good fall of rain. Further
dressings of nitrogenous manure may be
applied in the spring. Where only dairy
cattle are being grazed, expensive subdivision
fences will not be necessary—two plain wires
and a barb, properly spaced, will be sufli-
cient to hold ordinary cattle while grazing in
choice pasture.
“Bad Australian”: The experience of Mr.
Gerald Stanley in laying down pastures on
his property on the Mornington Peninsula
.(Vic.), although satisfactory from a finan-
cial point of view, demonstrates that results
are not always consistent with the probabili-
ties of the case. An area of 80 acres was
ploughed to a depth of Gin. and sown with
41b. of sub. clover and 81b. of Wimmera rye
per acre on March 25-28, 1930, lewt. of
super, per acre being drilled in. Both clover
and rye came away well, but a heavy percent-
age of the clover died off, leaving a prepon-
derance of rye. The remaining clover made
good progress, and when the land was stocked
in the spring it carried a heavy growth of
both grasses.
An additional area of 25 acres situated a
short distance away was sown with the same
quantities of seed per acre on March 29-30,
quantity of super, being also the same. The
clover maintained a vigorous growth; the rye
made a poor showing, and it was smothered
by the clover. There was no appreciable
difference in the quality of the land, yet it
would be difficult to imagine a wider differ-
ence in the results.
The pastures were stocked on September
25, and have carried five sheep to the acre
to date; in addition to these 90 lambs
have been fattened ami sold. The sheep are
all in very forward condition, and there is
still an abundance of grass. The land is a
light reddish-colored loam which never car-
ried more than one sheep to the acre on the
indigenous grasses. An additional area of
120 acres is being laid down this .season.
It was noted that on several hard patches
where the land had been little more than
scratched the grasses succeeded as well as
where it had been properly ploughed. From
this it would appear that a thorough scarify-
ing would provide a sufficient seed-bed for
the establishment of artificial pastures.
“Hillside”: “Harrow your pastures,” I
say. Autumn and winter is the most favor-
nble time, though enlightened farmers, now
do' it all the year round—they follow the
cows with the harrows in their rotational
grazing methods. The surface of the soil
broken, the gases are released (soil becomes
gas-bound from heavy stocking and tramp-
ing) and the air is let in, thereby promot-
ing growth of herbage and root systems.
Old waste tufts and roots are pulled out and
new growth is stimulated ; animal manure is
broken up and scattered evenly over the
surface.
Of all the types of harrows in use I prefer
the chain and the tripod. They are flexible
and severe, and may be had now with renew-
able tine steel blades with three different
cutting depths, which can be varied to suit
the farmers’ requirements. The tripod part
does the harrowing, the chain attachment
spreads the manure.
FAT LAMBS.
A Victorian breeder has returned from a
visit to Smithfield convinced that Australian
lamb is as good as the best produced in any
other country. Then why don’t Australian
lambs sell as well as those from Maoriland,
and why can Maoriland, with only one-third
the number of sheep there are in Australia,
export three times the number of lambs?
'“The answer to each of these questions,”
said the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture’s
Senior Sheep and Wool Instructor in a
recent lecture, “is that Maorilanders have
specialised in fat-lamb production, using only
the most suitable breeds and the most effi-
cient methods, and have been backed up
by the authorities controlling transport and
marketing facilities. The M.L. iamb indus-
try is well organised and advertised, particu-
larly in London, while the Australian lamb
is very little known. During 1929 M.L.
had a thousand specially-selected carcases
displayed in 65 of the most important centres
of England, and until June of the same year
had distributed gratis 16,000 carcases
throughout England. Such organisation and
advertisement must have materially assisted
the industry; the lack of such organisation
is one of the chief faults with our lamb
industry.”
“T.X.0.” : Queensland is going in earnestly
for fat-lamb raising. The present -weekly
output through the Enoggera yards is fully
four times greater than that of a few years
back. The habits of a lifetime are not
easily overcome, however, and even yet by
far the larger number of lambs sold are
merinos, although odd consignments of cross-
breds come forward each week.
As one who has sampled most of the fat
lambs from Longreacli to the southern
border, I unhesitatingly award the palm to
the _ half-bred Southdown. Queensland
merinos, no matter how young and prime,
are often inclined to be somewhat stringy,
their flesh being rather reminiscent of a tin
of bully beef on a hot day, whilst a rather
slimy consistency is frequently observed
right through the meat, especially about the
shoulder. On the other hand, the South-
down crossed with a good roomy merino ew T e
produces an ideal lamb for this climate. The
flesh, although young and tender, is fully
formed and firm in the grain, the carcase
carries more meat, and even the fat has a
pleasant taste peculiarly its own. When
frozen, the merino, I believe, loses most of
the characteristics named, but for eating in
this sunny clime give me the little South-
down cross in preference to any other edible
creature on four legs.
FATS ON GRANITE COUNTRY.
“Trifolium”: Poor granite country carry-
ing one beast to 10 acres has been converted
into beast-to-the-acre country by Graham
brothers, of Bongongo, Coolac (N.S.W.). In
a 40-acre paddock the timber was cleared,
the land ploughed, cultivated once, and sown
in May, 1930, with winter grasses, white
and subterranean clovers. Perennial rye
grass and sub. clover were the outstanding
successes, although all other plants grew
exceptionally well. A palatability test
proved tall oat grass to be the most attrac-
tive to bullocks. Toowoomba canary grass,
tall oat grass and tall fescue" reached a height
of sft., whilst cocksfoot grew almost as tall.
The growth of spb. clover was phenomenal,
some of the runners being sft. in length;
in N. S. Wales runners are seldom longer
than 2ft.
Since January this paddock has fattened
40 steers, which will soon be marketed in prime
condition. A dense growth of sub. clover
covers the surface, and this, with the abund-
ance of winter grasses and white clover, will
undoubtedly carry more than a beast to the
acre throughout the winter.
Bongongo, 42 miles from Yass and 28
miles from Tumut, has an altitude of 2700 ft.
and a 35in. rainfall. The Grahams selected
the worst patch of land on their 12,000-acre
property for this trial; land typical of hun-
dreds of thousands of acres of heavily-tim-
bered, unimproved country between Tumut
and Yass. When wool prices return to nor-
mal this area is assured of rapid develop-
ment.
PIGS FOR THE BRITISH MARKET.
“Sendee”: “LI.” (B. 25/3/’3l) challenges
my choice of the Tamworth, in preference
to the Large White, boar. Here are some of
my reasons. Despite the experience of “1.1.,”
white pigs do scald, and sometimes very
badly, in hot climates, and most Australian
conditions are hot. Denmark, Ireland, Canada
and Scotland, mentioned by “I.I.” are
all more or less cold countries, and Victoria
is our coolest mainland State.
I contend that the Victorian authorities
are making two mistakes in selecting the
Large White boar. First, they are taking
a,Victorian instead of an Australian view.
Our bacon will be known on the over-
seas market as Australian, and not by the
particular State it comes from. Hence the
necessity for adopting a breed which will
thrive and give good results under all con-
ditions. I have yet to learn that the Tam.-
Berk. cross will not fulfil these requirements.
The second mistake is to plump for a
breed that is essentially a bacon breed, when
pork is cheaper to produce and averages a
higher price per pound. The Large White
cross is immature at the 601b.-1001b. age, and
is not prime for pork at that stage. The
Tam.-Berk. is prime, as evidenced by the,
prices, obtained for Maoriland pork of this
•breed on recent English markets. In Aug.-
Sept., 1930, 601b.-1001b. M.L. pork brought
up to per pound, as against 6fd. for
the 1201b.-1801b. class, and the first 1001 b.
is the cheaper to produce..
All the States should come together and
sink fads in an attempt to build up- and
stabilise what should be a valuable industry.
. This should be done before any State gets
too far with a breeed which will be unsuit-
able for its neighbors. Incidentally, Victorian
breeders of Large White pigs would be well
advised to set their house in order if they
intend to persist with this breed. There were
at least four quite different types exhibited
at the last Melbourne Show, and they were
not all good.
WESTRALIA’S WHEAT INDUSTRY.
Westralia’s marked progress in recent
years shows up in the rapid expansion of
its wheat industry and a less pronounced
boom in wool. The growth in the wheat
yield over the last seven years and February
estimates for the 1930-31 season are set out
in the following table: —
Average Pool Average
Total per Acre, Price per Return
Bushels. Bushels. Bushel. per Acre.
1924.. 18,920,000 11.4 4s. 3td. £2/8/10
1925.. 23,887,000 12.8 ss. 9*d. £3/14/1
1926.. 20,471,000 9.7 ss. 81d. £2/15/4
1927.. 30,022,000 11.7 4s. Ilsd. £2/17/11
1928.. 36,370,000 12.1 4s. 10id. £2/19/5
1929.. 34,000,000 10.9 4s. 7id. £2/4/2
1930.. 39,081,000 11.0 3s. 7£d. £l/19/8
1931*. 52,000,000 13.2 Is. 8-ld.f £l/2/2
*Estimate. fValue, February, 1931.
Good seasons and prices over several years
greatly encouraged development, and the
area planted jumped from 1,769,000 acres in
1922-23 to close on four million acres for
the last term recorded. The 1930-31 harvest
was a record, both in volume and average
yield, but the drop in prices has been such
that, instead of the profits they had a right
to expect, many farmers have had heavy
losses. Westralian Farmers, Ltd. (the co.
that runs the wheat pool), has been deluged
with requests for financial assistance, and
the position of the farmers has not been
lightened by disputes between some of their
creditors, especially banks and machinery
people. In August Westralian Farmers, Ltd.,
was carrying £818,640 of book debts, and it
had to get £976,095 of outside help.
Nearly everything depends on the future of
wheat prices. Fortunately they are showing
signs of improvement. The sale of
odd bushels from the pool realised a penny a
bushel more than the February estimate
quoted, and there has been a small, but en-
couraging, advance recently. May it con-
tinue !
WOOD GAS FOR POWER-FARMING.
“11.A.L.”: No need to go to the French
army for information about wood-gas pro-
ducer-plants (B. l/4/’3l). For three years
the writer has been keeping an eye upon the
experiments of A. G. Pritchard, an Adel-
aide engineer, to design one light and com-
pact enough, as well as sufficiently foolproof,
to be fitted to an ordinary lorry or tractor,
and he declares emphatically that success
has been reached. The plant is such that
any of our hardwoods —even poor stringy-
bark —can be used, cut into small lumps
about 2in. square with a circular saw. In
the case of mallee the saw does all the work;
with bigger stuff the logs are cut into discs
about thick and broken up with the
back of the axe. Sufficient fuel can be pre-
pared with a circular saw in a week to do
all the cultivation, fallowing and harvesting
operations for a year on a farm of average
size.
This fuel is placed in a hopper, from
which it falls, as required, into a small fur-
nace below, completely enclosed except for
a small air inlet. Here the heat of some
if the wood being burned turns the rest
of the fuel into producer gas, which is drawn
into the cylinders instead of petrol or oil
vapor, after passing through a series of
“scrubbers” to be cleaned. The tractor
develops very nearly the same power as when
run on oil, but the cost is astoundingly low.
In a test with two Cletrac “20” tractors
held at Northfield, near Adelaide, the two
machines were set to work towing a six-
furrow Sun plough, then a 17-tine Shearer
cultivator, and lastly a 16 Shearer com-
bine, all working full depth in hard Bay of
Biscay soil with patches of red clay. Both
machines turned over 23 acres in 7|- work-
ing hours, the one running on petrol at a
cost of £1 6s. lOd. for fuel. The one fitted
with Pritchard’s gas-producer unit used
2cwt. of wood, costing 4s. with wood at £2
per ton. Of course most farmers could pro-
vide their own wood at about 10s. per ton.
There is a tremendous saving in lubricating
oil, too, for, the gas being perfectly dry,
there is no dilution of crank-case oil; that
in the tractor fitted with the gas-producer
has been used for 130 working hours with-
out losing any of its lubricating qualities.
No carlion whatever is deposited in the
cylinders.
The producer-gas tractor can be started
from stone-cold on a winter morning within
five minutes, and there is no fire risk what-
ever. The compact little fitting weighs less
than scwt., one fill-up of wood lasts for
seven hours on heavy work, and it can be
fitted to any of the tractors now in use. The
pistons have to be altered to give a higher
compression, but the total cost of the plant,
including engine alterations and fitting-up,
should not be much over £lO0 —less than the
fuel bill which the average tractor owner
pays every year—so that the plant can be
said to pay for itself in the first year. It
can be fitted to any type of internal-combus-
tion engine. The thing will be put on the
market as soon as possible.
TRY SWEET POTATOES.
“Go Do” :Itshould pay to give sweet potatoes
a trial these times. The cost of planting an
acre of them is trifling compared with the
cost of planting an acre of ordinary pota-
toes or even beans. The sweet-potato plants
are grown on the place, while it takes half
a ton of seed-potatoes or, a bushel of beans
to sow an acre. And —in N. S. Wales, at
least—seed-potatoes are £lO per ton and
bean-seed is £4 per bushel.
If you have only sufficient sweet-spud
plants to do half the area, wait until
they grow long enough to cut up into
more pieces. The small vines are as hardy
as prickly-pear and thrive in the hot
weather. If they are kept free of weeds in
the early stages of growth the runners will
soon overlap, smothering any weed seedlings
that may come along later, and make culti-
vation unnecessary. It is a mistake to cut
any of the tops back with the object of mak-
ing the roots develop; the effect will be the
opposite. Let the tops grow until the cracks
in the soil around the base of the plants
show that the tubers are ready to dig;
the tops can then be cut and fed to all classes
of stock, or the milkers may be allowed to
graze them off. Yields of 10 tons per acre
are common, while waste is negligible. The
roots keep well in the ground, and any
damaged or small tubers are readily con-
sumed by stock.
LEAF-SPOT IN BANANAS.
“Johnno”: Leaf-spot, which has been caus-
ing trouble in Queensland banana-growing
districts, appears to be regarded by many as
quite a new disease ; but I have known of
it for 25 years. It manifests itself most in
seasons when there is an abundance of rain
and plenty of warm weather. Really a
fungus, the disease does little damage so
long as the ground on which the crop is
growing is in a good state of fertility; but
once the ground begins to lose its push trees
and fruit suffer quickly; on a worn-out
plantation all bunches attacked wither away
without developing a single fruit.
No cure is known. The best thing to do is
to abandon the affected plantation and start
a new one. I have never known satisfactory
results to be obtained by application of fer-
tilisers. At the end of three or four years
bananas seem to have removed something
from the ground which fertilisers cannot
restore, and which can only be replaced by
nature. About the quickest and best
land-restorer that I know of is lantana. An
old banana plantation given over to the
(Continued on page 26 )


m
i m
t j $7
ws®®
11
sW*
esa&s
w&m
m
■: v.
%. J
•?:'Xy > :;
a®;:/
WHAT’S HE DRINKING ?
It’s a glass of golden goodness...
rich malt and ripe hops in the
making...it’s pure...it’s appetising
...it’s Resch’s Pilsener!
THINK BEFORE YOU DRINK-
AND YOU’LL INSIST ON
RESCH S
PILSENER


iiiiliii
t
m
■
-
W «H
B
C<s^
m
Extra wear
assured if ....
you select this double-soled
Abbey Boot. It is built for
hard service. . . .and wearers
throughout Australia have
proved that it does last longer.
It is smart. . . .and the special
design of the upper makes it fit
with perfect ease over the instep
arch. At back of ankle it is cut
slightly lower, to set closely
without chafing.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 226.
Announcement
We have pleasure in announcing
that we will be prepared to accept
orders for McCormick-Deering grain
drills and cultivator-drills during the
present planting season on the
following terms:
NO
DEPOSIT
One-Third Feb. 1, 1932
One-Third Feb. 1, 1933
One-Third Feb. l y 1934
We realise that many farmers will
require new equipment of this kind
to plant their crops this year and
this is one way in which we can help
them to handle this work efficiently
McCormick-Deering grain drills and
cultivator-drills are known throughout
the length and breadth of Australia,
for their efficiency in planting grain
and these easy terms of payment
which are now available will enable
farmers to plant their crops during
the present season in the most
economical manner possible.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
278-294 Roma St.
BRISBANE
229-231 Castlereagh St.
SYDNEY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
543-555 Bourke Street
MELBOURNE, Cl
113-114 North Terrace
ADELAIDE
789-795 Wellington St.
PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TAS.
A3l 20
McCORMICK REAPER
CENTENNIAL
1831 1931
tender mercies of this pestiferous plant for
four or five years will produce better crops
than it did in its virgin state.
IN THE POULTRY-YARD.
“Jack Point” : The present is a good time
to pot all birds which are just
Don’t imagine they’re costing you nothing-
even if you don’t feed them much they are
occupying as much space and time as birds
that might be returning good profits. Get rid
of those mongrels, make houses and yards ship-
shape, and order from a commercial poultry-
farm a hundred or so day-old chicks, to be
delivered a couple of months hence. It is
a very extraordinary hen that is worth
keeping when she is over 24 years old.
When you get your new pure-bred Leg-
horns or Orpingtons, keep a tally of what
they cost you and what they return. You
will find that they can earn more than
other lines you’ve given more attention to
in the past. Good housing will pay best, but
it need not be elaborate, and if liens have
free range they require surprisingly little
feed. See, however, that they get a balanced
ration.
Your whole flock should be replaced every
two years—-half this year and half next —
so that what you receive for the culls will
more than pay for the chicks bought to
replace them. Of course, you can buy your
own incubator and breed your own chicks,
but before doing this be sure you have mas-
tered the art of picking the birds from which
to breed.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Would it be worth while trying to knock
together a home-made lucerne-press? Direc-
tions, if 50. —2921. '
Better not try it. The N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture has no knowledge of a satis-
factory home-made press. For marketing
lucerne it is important that the bales should
be neatly finished. If large quantities of
hay are to be pressed, a home-made press
would waste a lot of time. Where small
quantities of lucerne hay are to be conserved,
stacking or silage making is recommended.
Would it pay to invest in a few acres and
exploit yacca grass, which grows in profusion
on tvastc land in my part of Q’land, and
what would he a sufficient acreage to exploit
profitably? Can the plant be sown for suc-
cessive crops? Where can the gum be sold?
—2555.
Yacca grows very slowly, and the larger
specimens may be quite 100 years old, which
puts the establishment of a plantation out
of the question. Send samples of gum to
paint and oil firms in Brisbane for a quota-
tion, which will indicate whether the re-
covery of the gum is likely to be profitable.
The most convenient scale on which to carry
out operations would have to be found by
experiment.
My lambs seem to be suffering from worms.
(1) Cause and remedyf (2) Is tincture of
iron crystals in a solution of water bene-
ficial to sheep or lambs in this condition f
—2590.
(1) If it is worms copper sulphate treat-
ment is recommended. Take 4oz. clear blue-
stone crystals (pieces which have turned
white should be discarded), dissolve these in
a pint of boiling water, using a wooden or
earthenware vessel, and then add enough
cold water to make the total to 3gal. The
dose is 14oz. for lambs ; 3oz. for sheep over
one year. Lime and phosphate deficiency is
probably the main cause of worms, and this
can be remedied by the provision of bone-
meal licks. (2) Only as a tonic. It has
no effect on worms, nor does it remedy the
phosphate deficiency.
llow to keep ants away from beehives ?
2634.
Small black ants should be brushed out of
the hives, and the latter set. upon pegs, a
tarred rag being wound round each peg. For
the destruction of these ants when their nests
are on the ground mix loz. of borax and 41b.
sugar boiled for three minutes in sufficient
water to produce the consistency of thin
honey. Small tins of this mixture may be
placed on the track of the ants, and they
will generally disappear, as when taken to
the nests it poisons the young. The tins
should be covered so as to admit ants but
not bees.
What is the most suitable weather for
the natural growth of mushrooms? —273B.
Moderate temperatures such as exist dur-
ing autumn and spring are most suitable.
Mushrooms grow at those times of the year
following falls of rain.
-Treatment for a fowl which is suffering
from wart-like growths on comb? The bird
is pulling its feathers out, and has lost
weight? —269B.
The fowl is suffering from chicken-pox.
The sores should be painted with tincture
of iodine, or, if near the eyes, common laun-
dry blue should be used. The feather-pulling
is probably caused by lice infestation, and
the feathers should be well dusted with sul-
phur. Almost any insecticide is effective.
What are the best fertilisers to use in light
stony soil when planting (1) maize, (2)
potatoes, (3) pumpkins, melons, squashes,
etc.? (4) Is it better to broadcast fertiliser
over the whole paddock or use in drills and
hills 0n1y? —2622.
(1) One cwt. of super, to the acre, broad-
cast and harrowed in prior to planting,
might be tried, but the use of fertiliser for
maize in your district (New England,
N.S.W.) has not proved particularly valuable.
(2) A leaflet on potato-growing can be
obtained free from the Agricultural Dept.,
Sydney. (3) Well-rotted manure, and
lewt. to 2cwt. per acre _ of a mixture
of super, and bonedust in equal quan-
tities, should be applied. (4) It is usual in
the case of vine crops to work some fer-
tiliser into the hills, and in the case of
potatoes it is usual to apply it in the furrow
or drill in which the potatoes are planted.
Good results are also obtained by drilling the
fertiliser into the soil before planting. Unless
a soil can maintain a reasonable amount of
moisture throughout the cropping period, fer-
tilisers may not prove profitable.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Odd Jobs”: To ensure long service and
best results, the windmill should have a
monthly inspection and oiling. Take an old
knife up with you and clean out waste oil
and grease, and don’t spare the oil —it’s
cheaper than renewed parts. Carry your oil
in a long-pointed can to get it into every
spot.
“Dai R.” : Now that winter is approach-
ing dairy farmers who haven’t shelters for
the milking herd should prepare them. A
few uprights and cross and diagonal pieces
and some bark or galvanised iron (or old
kero, or petrol tins opened out) are all that
is needed, and a day or little more will do
the job. Pick a high spot to avoid sodden
floors, and face the opening away from pre-
vailing winds. Boughs thrown round the
sides in spare time give greater warmth.
Cold is the great milk-killer.
“Cockyson” : By using a cage dip a cow
can bo dipped up to the day of calving with-
out being knocked about. The cow is simply
driven through a roomy crush on to the plat-
form suspended over the enclosed dip, built
in like a huge cage, and lowered gently down
into the dip mixture, in which she is allowed
to remain for a minute or so, while a bucket-
ful of dip water is poured over face and ears.
The beast is hoisted again by moans of a
winding tackle, and released through a gate
forming one of the walls of the dip.
“Bill R.” : When erecting a wire fence iii
which the posts are not far apart, don’t
bother about heavy straining posts or struts;
use any post in the line for a strainer. From
the top of the chosen post to the bottoms of
the next on each side, stretch double wires,
also from their tops to the bottom of the
strainer. Twitch the wires tight. The
severest straining of the fence wires will
not affect the rigidity of this construction.
“Gordo Blanco”: It is impossible to dry
sultanas on hessian on the ground (the usual
finishing process) after rain. The secret is
to keep them off the ground—on timber,
straw, or, best of all, galvanised iron; the
radiation off the iron helps to finish the
fruit. A sun temperature of 130 degrees is
supposed to be. required to effectively dry
.sultanas. After the March rains I was dry-
ing sultanas very hard on galv. iron. At
2 p.m. on March 29 the following tempera-
tures were recorded: Shade, 76deg.; ground,
lOOdeg.; on galvanised iron, 105 deg.
“Choux”: Lime and tobacco (two to one)
may keep clean plants free from grub and
aphis, but iny experience has been that, the
mixture acts purely as a preventive, not as
a cure. If plants are infected, it is best to
spray first, then apply the lime-tobacco. I
have had good results from this simple spray
—a pound of soap boiled in five gallons of
water, with a teaspoon of nicotine sulphate
to the gallon. I use a “Flytox” or “Shell-
tox” hand spray, and do a couple of thousand
each morning while the dew is on the plants.
The lime-tobacco should be applied while
the dew is on, as it adheres better.
“Jack Point” : To fatten up mongrel pigs
and poultry is to throw good money after
bad. True, a first cross (i.e., the progeny of
two pure breeds) frequently turns out better
than either parent, but deterioration sets
in immediately these crosses are further
crossed. The mating of nondescripts with a
good pure-bred male must lead to improve-
ment. Those who believe in the greater
vitality of the first cross must concede that
in order to get the improved results it is
essential that two breeds always be kept
pure. The extra trouble involved in doing
this will generally be found to be offset by
the advantages.
“Bill R.”: When starting to build a shed
or barn with posts of round stuff, do not cut
them to equal lengths on the ground. Where
the ground is not perfectly level there would
be difficulty in levelling off their upper sur-
faces. Erect the uprights in line, ram them
fiiunly; then, using a spirit-level, nail a
straight plank horizontally at the height
required for the walls. Saw off the uprights
level, with the upper edge of the plank as a
guide. They will then be ready for placing
the wall-plates.
“Kurrajong”: For a slipping belt there’s
nothing like a little melted rubber. Find
portion of an old motor-tube, smear the end
with kerosene or petrol, and ignite. Catch
the drops of melted rubber in a tin and
apply a thin coating to the pulley.
“E.H.M.” : A simple and effective way of
heating a hothouse is to stand an oil-lamp
on a piece of fiat galvanised-iron and enclose
it with bricks on edge, over which three or
four inverted flower-pots of graded sizes,
placed in tiers, make a dome-like canopy.
Pots inverted above each other radiate heat.
Another simple heater may be constructed
by using an ordinary kerosene-lamp in a
drainpipe—almost any kind of drainpipe win
do provided it is sufficiently large at the top
to take a vessel for holding water. The latter
counteracts the drying tendencies of the
lamp and absorbs some of the noxious fumes.
The lamp should be well filled and neatly
trimmed. A pan or kettle containing water
is then put on top, and the pipe should lie
so placed that a little air can enter at the
bottom.
“Bar. K.”: A pleasing feature at the
Sydney Show was the quality of the beef-
cattle exhibits. The aged classes showed a
high standard, well backed up by the young-
sters of the weight-for-age type. There was
a marked interest in the Polled-Angus section,
and obviously the cattlemen concerned are
laying an excellent foundation for the breed,
which is growing .so rapidly in favor. Un-
fortunately the supply of bulls of the right
type is at present inadequate. More encour-
agement might well be given by the Govern-
ment to the advancement of this valuable
breed.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Man (45), Vic., cook, last job Si years, wants
work anywhere. Refs. —2910.
Job wanted, any State, by young man, single,
10 years’ exp. mixed farming. Can repair imple-
ments, tractors and trucks; used to horses. Refs.
—2841.
Salesman with W.A. exp. wants job. Refs. —2856.
Young lady, Sydney, shorthand writer and typist,
exp. with electrical firm, wants j0b.—2889.
Pensioner, Vic., painter and grainer, handy tools,
can renovate premises, wants j0b.—2885.
Lady, Q’land, wants position as governess or
companion-help, any light duties, go anywhere.—2B76.
Stenographer-typist (17),. Sydney, knowledge of
filing, calculating machines, book-keeping, desires
position country, mountains preferred.—2B7l.
Junior typist, Sydney, three years’ exp., wants job,
city or suburbs.—294s.
Married motor mechanic, Q’land, wants job on
station, anywhere, driving and looking after motors.
—2946.
Station handyman (35), N.S.W., 7 years’ exp.,
knowledge sheep work, wants job. Wife domestic, if
required.—29s9.
Journalist-photographer (28) wants job anywhere.
Seven years’ exp. Refs. —2963.
Man (28) wants station job, Q’land, N.S.W. or
Westralia. Exp. as book-keeper, station hand,
electrical and motor mechanic and wireless operator
(certificated). Refs. —2962.
To buy English “Writers’ and Artists’ Year-
book,” any recent year.—2Bs3.
To buy second-hand “Constitutional History of
England,” by G. B. Adams. —2848.
To buy copies of “American Rifleman” magazine
and “The Book of the Pistol,” by Major Pollard.
—2850.
To buy early English editions of books by Conan
Doyle.—2B7B.
To buy second-hand copy of Benham’s “Book of
Quotations.” —2888.
To buy electrical traction correspondence course
by Schnabel, Melbourne.—2967.
Whereabouts of Gilbert Lionel Murray, who served
in Ist King Edward’s Horse in Great War.-. —2956.
Words of poem in eulogy of the miner, signed
“Black Hand.”—29l2.
Words of poem “The Cocky’s Prayer,” by Souter.
—2892.
Words of verse “Sperio’s Holiday.”-—2932.
Information Sought.
(1) Who appoints the N.S.W. Auditor-
General? (2) How is he removable from
office? (3) What are his duties? —-2798.
(1) The Governor, on the advice of his
Ministers. (2) Only on an address from
both Houses of Parliament. (3) To
supervise, inspect and audit the collection
and expenditure of public moneys and
the manner in which the public accounts
are kept. He exercises control over the
issue of public moneys, and all warrants
must, be countersigned by him. Matters
connected with the public accounts are sub-
ject to special or annual report to Parlia-
ment by him, and he may refer any matter
to the Public Accounts Committee.
What are the distinguishing characters of
the white-winged chough? Habits? What
sort of.nest does it build? —2788.
It is a black bird with a scarlet eye, and
a patch of white on the middle of the flight
feathers of the wing which is only exposed
when the bird flies. It is chiefly found in
the inland districts, especially near the rivers
of the Murray system, where it runs about
on the ground in search of insects, flying
up into the trees when disturbed. It asso-
ciates in small companies, and on this
account is sometimes (but wrongly) called
“apostle-bird” or “twelve apostles.” In some
districts it is also called “black magpie” or
“mutton-bird.” It builds a basin-like nest
of mud. lined with grass, on the horizontal
limb of a tree, and lays five to seven eggs,
yellowish-white, blotched all over with olive
and purplish brown. When perched in a
tree it sometimes utters a low, mournful
piping. The male bird, when courting, in-
dulges in curious antics, puffing out his
feathers, spreading his wings and tail, and
lowering his head.
How many primary colors are there and
what are they? —2762.
A painter would say red, yellow and blue,
because with pigments of these hues he can
make green, orange, violet and other colors.
Scientifically, however, there is controversy
as to whether the primary colors are red,
green and violet, or red, green and blue.
Using colored rays of light instead of pig-
ments, yellow is derived from red and green,
and yellow and blue produce white. Red,
green and blue also can bo compounded into
white.
(1) Is it still believed by geologists that
the interior of the earth is molten or gas-
eous? (2) If so, how thick do they reckon
the crust is? (3) Is it possible that the
interior of the earth consists of iron? In
that case, how thick a crust of lighter
material, such as rock, could be allowed for?
(4) Is the centre of gravity in the centre of
the globe, and if not, how does that effect
the theory of a molten or gaseous interior? —
2801.
(1) The matter is regarded as incapable
of proof by any method at present avail-
able. Three theories are in controversy—
that the nucleus is a molten mass enclosed
by a solid shell; that the globe is solid and
rigid throughout; that the nucleus consists
of incandescent vapors and gases, especially
vaporous iron, so compressed as to be rigid.
(2) The non-solid-centre theorists place
the thickness at from 30 to 45 miles. (3)
A very high authority, Prof. J. Perry, said
“almost anything is possible as to the present
internal state of the earth,” so there may be
an iron core—possibly a sphere 6340 miles
in diameter, with a shell of rock of the
specific gravity of granite 780 miles thick.
(4) The centre is slightly to the south, but
the fact is not held to affect the theories
mentioned.
(1) How is wattle bark prepared for tan-
ning cattle hides? (2) Is silver-wattle bark
much inferior to black for tanning purposes?
2640.
(1) The bark should be dried and broken into
small pieces by crushing in a mill. It is then
placed in wooden or brick vats and covered
with water. After 24 hours the liquor is
drawn off and the bark again covered with
water. This is repeated four or five times.
The first liquor should be strong, if good
bark is used; and the later ones become
weaker. The weaker liquors are used first
in the tanning processes and the strong ones
are used to finish the tannages. Very strong
liquors can be obtained by covering fresh
dry bark with tan-liquor from a previous
lot of bark. Tanners have a round of about
eight pits, the liquor flowing from one to
another by gravitation and finishing when it
covers the new dry bark. (2) The tannin
value of silver wattle varies considerably;
the average is much lower than that of black.
/ have a five-leaf Virginia creeper in my
garden. Is this poisonous and a danger with
children in the house? Are there two varie-
ties of the creeper?— 2s9B.
So far as records show, the true “Vir-
ginian creeper” ( Ampelopsis veitchei ) is not
poisonous. This is the only species that is
cultivated to any extent in' N.S.W., but in
other countries there are several species
(including •Ampelopsis quinquefolia) culti-
vated as ornamental vines. Both species are
called “Virginian creeper” and are regarded
as harmless.
When was the first N.S.W. loan floated
and for what purpose? How was it floated?
—2782.
The first loans were to promote immigra-
tion. From 1831 to 1841 the expenses
attached to immigration were met by the
Land Fund, into which were paid the pro-
ceeds of land, sales, but, these proving in-
sufficient, it was decided to borrow on the
security of the Territorial or Land
Revenue, and a debenture loan of £49,000
was offered locally on December 28, 1841.
The loan was issued during 1842 in two
instalments, the nominal rates of interest
being s£d. and 4d. per cent, respectively per
diem. This was the first public loan floated
in Australia. It was not until 1854 that a
loan was placed on the London market.
What is the “zodiacal light” and what
causes it?— 279l.
It is an appearance whose cause is not
completely understood, to be seen only from
places where the air is free from smoke and
the darkness of the sky is not affected by the
glare from artificial lights. As such places in
northern latitudes it shows, when the moon is
absent, as a cone of faint light stretching up
slantingly from the sun before sunrise in the
autumn months and after sunset in spring.
From high elevations in the tropics it may
be seen throughout the year. A distinction
is sometimes made between this and the
zodiacal band, which is an even fainter
phenomenon and a prolongation of the
zodiacal light. The zodiacal light may be
the manifestation of a widely scattered
appendage of the sun or sunlight reflected
from a vast concourse of meteoric systems.
(1) What average speed did the Bris-
bane Limited maintain on her journey fromi
Sydney to Wallangarra? (2) On what
stretches were the highest speeds recorded,
and what were they? (3) In what respects
do the English and N.S.W. railway lines
differ with regard to speed? (4) Average
speed on our Transcontinental line, and
highest during run? —2759.
(1) Twenty-eight m.p.h., including stops.
(2) . The fastest sections were Woy Woy-
Newcastle (36£ m.p.h.) and Newcastle-
Singleton (36 m.p.h.). (3) The N.S.W.
railways cross a mountain range which lies
parallel and close to the coast. This neces-
sitates a line with grades and curves, fea-
tures which prevent high speeds. English
railways are free from these disabilities.
Except for a short strip on the Great West-
ern Railway near Plymouth, the main lines
may be said, generally, not to exceed 1-in-
-100 grades. Grades of l-in-75, l-in-40 and
l-in-30 are common in N.S.W. (4) Twenty-
seven m.p.h. east-bound and 36f m.p.h. west-
bound, including stops. The speed is fairly
constant over the whole route.
Did the French Government demand from
the Australian Government rent for trenches
occupied by the A.I.F. in France? —26s2.
The French Government did not demand
from the Commonwealth Government nor did
the latter pay or accept such a liability in
any form.
Are Germans barred from entering the
Commonwealth?— 2767.
Not specifically, but in view of the present
economic position all aliens proposing to
come here for the purpose of taking up em-
ployment are liable to be restricted from
landing unless they hold permits issued by
the Department of Home Affairs. The
issue of such permits, as a rule, is confined
to very close relatives of persons already
settled in Australia.
What causes twilight, and why does it
increase in duration away from the equator ?
—2699.
It is caused by the intervention of the
atmosphere between the sun and the earth’s
surface. When the sun is some distance
below the horizon, the upper layers of air
remain illuminated and reflect the light to
us. Twilight lasts until the sun is 18
degrees below the horizon; its duration
depends on season and latitude, being
governed by the sun’s altitude and declina-
tion. Near the equator, where the sun is
more directly overhead, twilight must be
much shorter than near the poles, where the
motion towards the horizon is oblique.
How are appointments of assistant clerks
of Petty Sessions made in N. S. Wales?
Qualifications and age? —26oB.
They enter the service as junior clerks,
who are appointed by the Governor
on the recommendation of the Public
Service Board, and must qualify by
passing the entrance examination, which
is usually held annually in connection
with the intermediate and leaving-certificate
examinations. Candidates must be not more
than 19. No entrance examination was held
in 1930, and there are still many successful
candidates at the 1929 examination who have
not yet been offered employment.
(1) Should canaries of opposite sex be
separated until breeding-time? (2) Correct
period of year to mate? (3) Most suitable
food? —2792.
(1) Yes. (2) End of July until August.
(3) Plain seed, but apart from the question
of waste there is no objection to mixed seed.
What is the meaning of, “Bottled in bond
under Commonwealth Customs supervision” ?
How is the Customs Department interested
and what form does the supervision take? —
2535.
Spirits are imported in casks and placed
in bond, pending payment o'f duty. The
spirits are then emptied into vats and reduced
in strength. The contents of the vats are
then placed in bottles. The whole operation
is carried out under the supervision of a
Customs officer; the department is interested
because the duty on spirits not bottled in
bond is ss. per gallon more than on liquor
so bottled.
(1) Does Australia produce artificial silk?
(2) What is it made of? —2730.
(1) No. (2) From a special form of wood
pulp or from other suitable cellulosic
material, such as cotton linters. ,
I am thinking of asphalting the floor of my
motor garage with Duratar asphalt and sand.
Would the asphalt have a bad effect on tyres?
—2568.
Duratar emulsion would be more suitable.
Sand, or preferably fine gravel, should be
mixed with the emulsion at the rate of ]. cub.
yd. to 30 gallons. A foundation of gravel
or other hard material should first be laid
and the surface lightly painted. The emul-
sion mixture should be spread to a depth of
lin. to l|iu. and rolled or rammed about 24
hours later. After a few days the surface
should be painted with emulsion and covered
with coarse sand. This type of floor is damp-
proof and has no ill-effect upon tyres.
My rosclla parrot continually plucks its
feathers out. Cause and cure? —2718.
The trouble arises from the boredom of
cage life and foods which cause skin irrita-
tion. Feed on maize, w’heat, canary-seed,
fruit, sow thistle, chop bones with a little
meat attached occasionally, toast and butter
and a little cod-liver oil floating on the water.
Do not give any sunflower seed, tea, cake or
oats.
What qualifications are needed to become
a junior teacher under the Vic. Education
Department ? —2587.
Candidates must be at least 16 years of
age, and must be in possession of the leaving
certificate. There are at present no vacan-
cies.
Annual registration cost in N.S.W. of a
Q-cyl. car, R.A.C. rating 21.6 h.p., weighing
19cwt.?— 2701.
Registration fee is £1 plus tax of £4 ss.
6d. on a British car and £5 4s. 6d. on a
foreign car.
(1) How can a moneylender be registered
in Brisbane? (2) Is there a State Act gov-
erning them? (3) How much capital are
they required to possess?. —2727.
(1) A statutory declaration form obtain-
able from Department of Justice, Brisbane,
should be completed and returned to that
office together with a fee of £1 2s. 6d., when
a license will be issued for three years. At
the expiration of three years or upon any
change of place of business address the
moneylender must re-register. (2) The
Money Lenders Act, 1916. (3) The Act
makes no stipulation.
(1) How much has Australia received in
the way of reparation payments from Ger-
many to date, how much do we receive
annually, and how much is it expected we
shall receive altogether? (2) For what pur-
pose is the money used? —273l.
(1) £5,155,595 up to December 31, 1930.
The annual receipts vary; the amount in
1929-30 was £877,832; this year it will be
greater, due to Australia receiving a share of
the . proceeds Of the recent reparation
loans. If the reparation settlement is carried
out in its entirety Australia will receive
further payments up to 1966 equal to an
average annuity of about £830,000. (2)
It is paid to the National Debt Commission
to be applied to debt redemption.
(1) Is it advisable to give Oregon weather-
boards a coat of creosote before painting?
(2) What time should elapse between oiling
and painting? (3) Is it advisable to punch
in the heads of nails and putty the holes
before painting? —2B2s.
(1) If any surface is given a coat of
creosote before painting it is not possible
to apply paint. Best results would be
obtained by first giving a coat consisting of
1 gallon linseed oil to which has been added
a pint of turpentine and |-pint of terebine.
(2) At least 24 hours. (3) Yes, as besides
giving a neater appearance greater pro-
tection is afforded the wood and moisture
is not so liable to penetrate the nail-holes,
causing rust and looseness to occur.
(1) What subjects must be passed in to
secure an accountancy degree? (2) Number
of subjects necessary for a pass? (3) If
two days a week arc devoted to study, how
long would it take to prepare for examina-
tion?—2B42.
(1) Book-keeping, auditing, mercantile
law, insolvency law, company law, taxation.
One institute also includes elementary
economics. (2) A pass in every subject is
necessary, though each may be taken separ-
ately. (3) Six to nine months before sitting
for the intermediate. It may take a couple
of years to complete the whole course.
Brief Answers.
C.K.H.: In 1878-79 F. P. Labilli&re pub-
lished in London his “Early History of the Colony of
Victoria,” in two volumes. He died in England in'
1895....N.G.H.: If in mint condition it should fetch
15s F.S.D.: Tulip wood is used for making
billiard tables and other furniture. It is tough
and durable, resembling olive wood, and is reckoned to
be our best timber for lithographic scrapers....
F.M.K.: (1) ss. (2) It won’t protect you in
America. (3) Fox Studios, 1401 North Western-
avenue, Los Angeles; M.G.M. Studios, Culver City;
First National Studios, Burbank —all Cal., U.S.A.
.... D.L.: Changed to the House of Windsor on
July 17, 1917. It was formerly the House of Saxe-
Coburg and Gotha.... R. W.L.: Hinkler was born
at Bundaberg (Q.) on December 8, 1892. He served
with the British Naval Air Service during the war.
. ...C.M.: You should have had a copy of the plan
and specifications when signing up. If you contem-
plate taking action, you will need a solicitor. In the
case of the bank contract, get the solicitor to write,
asking for an explanation of the delay in payment.
. ...F.M.: The fact that it is in your possession is
not an offence, but you may be called on to show
how it came into your hands and that the skins
were not illegally obtained... .T.M.W.: From the
description, it was a tiger-snake. Send any parts
available to the Aus. Museum, Sydney, for investiga-
tion... .A.A.: Write C. Weaver, hon. sec., Australian
Numismatic Society, 11 Carlyle-street, Leichhardt.
.... K.T.S.: Armenia was proclaimed a Soviet
Republic in 1921. In 1926 the population was
876,557. It is essentially an agricultural country..
. ...A.M.W.: Commonwealth Savings Bank, Brisbane,
advises that there is no record of the account at
Townsville or Charters Towers... .D. 8.: The lines
are in Tennyson’s “Crossing the Bar”... .8.D.: The
information may be obtainable from the Mitchell
Library, Sydney, or from the Secretary, Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society, Sydney.... J.H.T.: Cool-
amon (“wooden dish”), Keera (“big lagoon”), Kerri-
bee (“a wild horse”), Moonbooka (“place of
venomous spiders”)... .A.J.S.: Write Under Sec.,
Department of Home Affairs, Canberra...-C.M.8.:
Write Assistant Secretary, War Department, Washing-
ton, D.C., U.S.A T.J.M.: (1) Yes. Recent
editions give the laws of auction bridge as decided
on by a conference called by the Portland Club in
London in 1928. These were adopted by all the
leading British and American clubs. (2) While
not an annual, it is continually being revised and
published in new editions... .P.K.: The Australian
force which captured the German possessions in the
Pacific left Sydney on August 18, 1914... .R.C.P.:
The Hereward (1513 tons) was stranded during an
easterly gale on Maroubra Beach, near Sydney, on
May 6, 1898. No lives were lost. She was refloated
later, but while being towed away was driven by a
southerly squall on to the rocks, where she broke Up.
.... T.L.: Two species occur on our coasts —the pied
oyster-catcher, which frequents sandy beaches, and
the black oyster-catcher, which prefers rocks. These
birds are generally known to fishermen as redbills.
. ...J.8.W.: See “A Backward Glance: The Story
of John Ridley”—your public library may have a
copy C.J.J.: When swimming, the arms, and
these are also used to push him along when on
his small trolley. Any surgical instrument-maker
could supply you. Sydney firms are Denyer Bros,
and Guyatt and Co.—both of George-street.... A.P.:
Friends might be able to put you on the track. If
you have reason to believe the money is in Chancery,
write to the Assistant Paymaster-General, Supreme
Court Pay Office, London... .W. 8.8.: (1) X can sue
for the debt and if judgment is not met the team
could be taken in execution. He cannot seize it with-
out suing. (2) As it is an agreement extending beyond
the sale of goods, it should be stamped. Unstamped
agreements require stamping before being produced
in court. Either party can stamp his copy....
D.M.8.: Copies may be obtained through Gordon
and Gotch, Brisbane. .. .J.M.: There is no fixed
period. The Courts have laid down the principle
that notice must be “reasonable.” In your case it
should not be less than a month, and in view of the
long service three months would not be unreasonable.
. ...P.H.R.: (1) Yes. (2) Not as a matter of
right, but if it be the wish of the committee. (3)
If he acts as chairman, ye5....P.W.: (1) There are
no authentic records. In the first race in 1839
there were 17 starters. Since then, as many as 50
have saddled up. An average would be about 30.
(2) Figures not available. Two were killed this
year, but that was exceptional. (3) No record of
any rider being killed in the G.N. Many have
been injured, but that word covers a large field in
steeplechasing... .T.M.: The Empire State Building
is the tallest in New York. It has 86 storeys and
is 1248 ft. high. The Chrysler Building has 68
storeys and is 1046 ft. high... .F. 8.5.: Can’t say
without knowing in which State the deceased resided.
Consult “The World Almanac” for 1931 (page 283),
available most public libraries.... M.P.: The A. J.C.
Derby in 1915 was won by Cetigne, the Sydney Cup
by Scotch Artillery and the Doncaster by Garlin....
T.G.: A graphite oil sprayed by pressure gun will
keep springs in good order. Another plan is to stuff
oil-soaked waste between spring and cross member.
... .R.V.M.: From Donald Patents, Ltd., Glenmore-
road, Paddington, Sydney. Price 225. 6d., freight extra.
. ...R.M.M.: Lodge a claim for family endowment;
forms procurable from the Family Endowment Dept.,
Sydney J.E.A.: (1) Write Secretary, Massage
Association, 185 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (2) Portion
of the course is taken at the University for a period
of two years J.0.D.: There is an avenue of
P.oinciana regia in Durban. Not likely that it would
flourish in the south-west of N.S.W., as it requires
a tropical or sub-tropical climate... .H.J.: (1) No
State income tax is payable. Federal income tax is
chargeable on a graduated scale; special tax of 7-1
per cent, of the taxable income is also chargeable.
(2) No information can be given until the legislation
has been passed.... W.F.L.: At Port Hunter (N.S.W.)
the average rise and fall of ordinary tides is 3ft.
3in., and .of spring tides sft. 4iin., the. greatest
range being 6ft. sin G.G.: Prospects of em-
ployment in either are very poor at present.... R.T.:
You are legally entitled to the difference between
purchase price and larger sum tendered.... J.T. J.:
“Eyre” is pronounced to rhyme with “air”... .M.L.:
Goods and chattels distrained for rent must be sold
by public auction. Since December 10, under the
N.S.W. Landlord and Tenant Amendment Act, “no
distress for rent shall be levied or made”... .A.D.8.:
Go to the County Court Registrar nearest the place
where the wife died. He is authorised to assist you
with advice and will furnish forms to obtain letters of
administration. The division will be one-third to
husband and two-thirds to child... .A.8.J.: (1) If
B dies during A’s lifetime an intestacy arises on
the death of the latter, and (in default of further
provision in the will than that named) the property
will become divisible among the devisor’s next-of-kin,
the death duty being paid out of the estate. (2)
Under Dr. Lang’s Act it has been held that where
the ultimate devise in a will is to the testator’s
heir, the personal representative of the testator is
the person designated and he holds in trust for
testator’s next of kin. The word “absolutely” in a
straight-out devise is redundant... .W.E.D.: Try
Buzacott and Co., Ltd., 7-11 Market-street, Sydney,
or W. Newton and Co., Lawrence and Fountain
streets, Alexandria, Sydney.... (Many others mailed.)


er time
Nursing Mothers who take
Benger’s regularly during this
period go through the strain of
nursing without undue fatigue,
and the child benefits from the
enriched natural milk.
is Beni
ď
Food
for Infants,
Invalids and (he Aged
nr
/
l>.
Benger's Booklet, post free, contains a. concise guide to the rearing of Infants
Benger's Food, Ltd. , 350, George Street, Sydney.
A2Gik Sole Manufacturers: BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis : The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Banton, N. S.
Wales, west of the Blue Mountains,
where Dr. Gherardi, an Italian poli-
tical exile, ■ has settled with his wife
and son, and is establishing a prac-
tice. He is troubled by the fret-
fulness of his wife, icho accom-
panied him to Banton against his
wish, but who now, he feels, is making
no effort to adapt herself to his cir-
cumstances. Allegations touching upon
Ms professional performance and other
misunderstandings make him deter-
mined to leave, but imperceptible influ-
ences work to keep him there. He has
made a friend of John Cartwright,
Banton’s leading citizen, and is slowly
winning the respect and friendship
of others. But Mrs. Gherardi be-
comes more and more fretful, and,.,
completely losing her control, she
takes strychnine. Dr. Gherardi leaves
for Sydney with his son, but re-
turns —to make atonement. Later
he meets there Olioen Ferrars, whose
tragedy and personality had im-
pressed him when he attended her
wastrel husband, who had since died.
They become close friends, though
remaining uncertain of each other.
Dr. Gherardi finds himself again a vic-
tim of Banton’s narrower outlook
when a housekeeper he had ordered to
leave spreads a silly gossip about Mm
and a girl he had helped, /i.y a result
of this his advertisement for another
housekeeper is unanswered, and the
house in which he is living with his
small son Dino becomes neglected and
dirty.
Chapter IX ( Continued).
(4)
LEO went despondently into the house to
find Olwen sweeping the dining-room
carpet. The air was thick with dust,
and her head was bound in a torn pillow-
slip which she slid off as he came in.
“Hullo!” she said blithely, but both her
gesture and her voice betrayed nervous-
ness.
Leo frowned. “What do you want to
do that for?”
“I didn’t think you’d mind. I let myself
in. There was no one here, and I thought
I’d straighten things out a bit. Mona told
me Miss McCodd had gone and that you
had no one. Why didn’t you tell me, Leo?
I could have got someone for you. I
haven’t seen you for ages.” She achieved
a casual gaiety of utterance, but her eyes
timidly, questioned him.
“Mrs. Cartwright has kindly offered to
arrange for me this matter of securing a
housekeeper,” he said stiffly. Her presence
disturbed him, as, lately, it always did. He
had avoided her for three weeks, and when,
as happened on a few occasions, they had
met by accident he had been polite, formal
and had quickly dismissed her. But he had
suffered from the abstention, just how
much he was not aware until this moment.
Olwen flushed. “I’m sorry if you mind
my coming, Leo. I didn’t mean to thrust
myself on you.”
“It is not that. Please do not think I
intend to be rude. But I do not like you
should trouble yourself.”
If he could maintain for a long enough
period this polite detachment she would
go. His nerves sent warnings through his
thrilling flesh. The very air of the room
seemed thick with treachery, with a force
waiting to betray him to folly. His
abruptly-grown passion for this woman was
an insanity against which he must fight.
He tried to visualise Teresa, but Teresa
was just a name in that moment, and no
form materialised.
“What on earth’s the matter with you,
Leo? You look as if you’d seen a ghost.”
His attempt at a laugh failed. “No, no.
As you see, I am in terrible state hfire.
There has been no one for a week to attend
to things, but Mrs. Cartwright informed me
of someone, so it will be better now—that,
is, if the woman will come. The McCodd
she tells all sort of stories.” He repented
the last remark as soon as he had uttered
it.
Olwen said swiftly: “She said something
about me coming here so often, didn’t she.
Leo?”
“Oh, no. That was not the reason. It
was because of that girl with the baby—
perhaps you have not heard.”
“Yes, I heard. But I heard the other,
too.”
“There was nothing in that. Do not
worry yourself about.”
“Was that why you’ve avoided me
lately?” To herself she was wondering at
her temerity in giving him the chance to
snub her utterly. But it didn’t matter now,
anyhow, what, she said or did. Anyone
could see that he was no longer interested
in her—probably never had been, not in-
terested as she had stupidly supposed he
w T as. Her embarrassment left her, replaced
by a hard little core of desperation.
“Were you frightened of gossip?” He
didn’t see her hands which, behind her back,
were twisting the linen rag.
“No; but in a small town like this, where
there is so much gossip, one must naturally
be careful. One must live in the town, and
so the opinion of the town counts. For
myself, I do not mind.” (Curious that this
angle had not once presented itself to him.
He was glad of that.)
“I have been inconsiderate of you.
Although I have lived in this town some
years there are still many things I do
not understand about. This matter of what
you call the gossip was one. In a big city
two people can go their way and no one
notice, or if they notice they do not care.
But in Banton it is different. Now I per-
ceive the difference; it would not be fair
to”
“Oh, that’s all right, Leo. Please don’t
say any more. If anyone is to blame it is I.
I’m old enough to look after myself, and I
know very well the way Banton’s mind
works.”
She had thought she was too miserable to
feel pricks to her pride, but it seemed she
was not. The thing now was to get away,
out of his sight, as soon as she could. It
was astonishing that she could have de-
luded herself for so long, but his cold voice
left her no room for doubt now.
Her smile was almost as nonchalant as
she intended it to be. “We won’t say any
more about it. I understand. I’ll be get-
ting along now, if you’re fixed up. Did
Mona say when the woman would come?”
Suddenly her face betrayed her, the smile
slid from her lips and they quivered piti-
ably.
For a few moments longer Leo fought the
hot, pulsing force which throbbed in his
body, then succumbed.
“Olwen—r-for God’s sake! You do not
understand.” He gripped her arm, then
dropped it. “Don’t you realise how you
complicate my existence?” The words were
harshly spoken and seemed to have been
torn from him.
“I—l’m sorry. I didn’t think I’d been
complicating it much lately. I haven’t
seen you, Leo, for a long time!” She
looked at him uncertain and bewildered,
wondering what was going to happen.
“No.”
“I’ve seen you only twice since that
night I drove out with you, and then only
for a few minutes.”
“Three times.” He spoke absently.
“I didn’t think you’d bother to remem-
ber.”
“I remember everything about you. I
wish I did not remember. How you look,
things you say; when I should think of
other things it is of you I think. The
thought of you has become tyrant, sub-
duing all other thoughts. Now, you under-
stand.” ' His eyes blazed at her.
She was trembling. “In a way you hate
me. don’t you, Leo?”
He began to prowl up and down the
room. “I do not hate you. I hate the
obstruction that you could be. But I will
not allow, Olwen. It would be disaster.”
“It’s funny,” she said in a queer, strangled
voice, “how we’ve omitted all the prelimin-
aries. We’ve known and accepted our feel-
ings without ever having said anything
about them, haven’t we?”
“Did you feel the need of discussing?”
“No no, I didn’t. I knew.... Oh,
you’re brutal! You make me ashamed.”
Her thoughts were chaotic. She was almost
unbearably excited.
“Why should this happen!” He flung
up his arms in a characteristic gesture. “I
am a schoolboy, a callow fool! I cannot
control my mind. Women have never meant
a great deal to me, and yet always I am
involved with them.”
“Don’t say those things! You’re not
you’re not decent! Don’t you consider me
at all? Don’t think out aloud in front of
me like that. You hurt. I don’t want you!
I wish I’d never seen you. This thing....
that’s happened between us I didn’t seek
it. It happened. I haven’t said anything
either. I defy you to tell me a word I’ve
ever spoken that would have told you how
I felt! You don’t know now—you don’t.
I appreciate your friendship, that’s all.”
While they stared at each other the lie
crumbled.
“You’ll forget me soon enough,” he said
thoughtfully. Then: “Olwen, I have decided
to return to Europe.”
“When... .when are you going?” The
words ended on a moan and she began to
cry.
When he tried to touch her she thrust
him back. “You’ve shamed me enough,
haven’t you? You haven’t left me a shred
of reserve to cover myself with. You seemed
to know all the time how I felt. I thought
you understood and felt the same. No,
that’s not quite true. I knew you didn’t
feel the same as I felt.... Oh what do
you make me say!” Sh'fe fumbled for a
handkerchief and covered her face with it.
“I cannot fail to understand you, Olwen,”
he said miserably. He realised how intoler-
able his behavior was. But all the obsti-
nacy in his nature was called into play to
prevent a confession of his own love. He
had gone far enough, too far. But while a
definite confession was unmade he could
retreat; not decently, but some sort of
retreat was possible. Besides, did he love
her? His desire for her was a flame; at
times so strong it threatened to consume
this resistance, then dwindling to a flicker
and he was able to think the fire extin-
guished. Now was the time to reason. Now,
But how could a man reason when all his
senses were inflamed, when all the beautiful
body of that woman, her mind and her
heart were conspiring to destroy that
reason ?
“Olwen, please go home. And it is best
we are not alone again. I am sorry to hurt
you. But it is for your ultimate happiness.
1....1 am reluctant to marry again. I do
not think I could make you happy, feeling
as I do.” (What a liar and a fool he was!
He could make her happy enough. But it
would mean the finish, the end of him.
Well, wasn’t he finished already?) “I will
be gone very soon from Banton. You will
forget me; one day you will marry someone
of your own people and will be glad that
we”
“Please, Leo, don’t say any more!” She
took her hands from her face, which was
quite bloodless. She had stopped crying.
“You’ve humiliated me enough. I don’t
understand you. I knew when I first met
you that I never would understand you, so
I’m trying to forgive you. But not if you
say any more!” Her voice broke from con-
trol and she almost screamed the last words.
They faced each other like combatants.
Both were breathing hard.
Leo turned away first; obeying a dictate
of his senses, he went to the window and
lowered the blind. “The glare was troubl-
ing,” he said.
His remark was automatic and one knew
that his mind was not concerned with it;
but his action had given Olwen time to
recover her control. She was able to say,
almost calmly : “What are your plans, Leo?
Have you decided exactly when you are
going?” They were the first words that
came to her.
His projected departure was in the earliest
formative state; as yet, little more than a
wish. He did not know what he was going
to do; he had not considered' further than
the writing of a few letters to friends to
establish contacts. Whether those contacts
would be productive of any real benefit he
could not say. He had a little money saved.
He had thought vaguely of establishing him-
self in Switzerland, and perhaps influenc-
ing his friends to agitate for a pardon. Now,
after nine years, was there anyone suffi-
ciently interested in him to take the matter
up? It was improbable. Besides labora-
tory work was out of the question. It was
too late. Who would be interested in
training a man of his years and his record?
There were so many young, eager brains.
Now that he was compelled to face the
facts he realised that that particular ambi-
tion had been no more than a delusion all
these years. He had pretended to himself
that he could go back and take up where
he had left off; long after he had ceased
to believe such a thing possible, he had
pretended to believe it. All men did that,
perhaps. He had known old men with
withered bodies and enfeebled faculties
talk vaguely of the splendid and gallant
things they were going to do some day,
when they could manage it. Listening to
them he had wondered if they actually
believed in their intentions. Now he knew.
It would probably be a general practice.
In Lugano, perhaps. The canton Ticino
was practically Italian, or perhaps in Cairo
—he was not certain.
He told her this in brief, unfinished
phrases, almost as if he were thinking aloud.
He was pacing the room and avoided look-
ing at her. The lovely pallor of her face,
her tormented eyes, prevented him from
thinking clearly, and it was imperative that
he convince her of the impossibility of his
remaining in Banton. But it was difficult
to convince her when he could not con-
vince himself.
The woman affected him powerfully. In
her presence his resolves weakened, his
desires were confused. If he had had time
to form conclusions before this crisis had
come upon him. He spoke vaguely of in-
tellectual stimulus, beauty, keen competitive
minds, expansion, even if there was to be
no outstanding achievement; and while he
spoke he was conscious that he found none
of these things really vital as he found the
still, tormenting figure of the woman at
whom he dared not look.
“Then I’m to understand that you have
not made any definite plans?”
“Only as I have told you.”
“Then, Leo, listen.” Her forehead was
puckered, her words well ordered. “You
admit it’s too late for you to do great work.
By great work you mean successful research
which will benefit not the few to whom you
directly apply yourself, but all mankind in
this and future generations, don’t you?
Well, it’s given to very few to do that. You
think you could have done it. You might.
I don’t know anything about that. But
most of us have got to live with the
thought of at least one grand failure to do
what we might have done. Well, you cannot
go back to your own country. You might,
but that isn’t at all certain, is it? You
will wander round Europe, doing pretty
much the same work as you do here. You
might do it under better conditions and
your patients might seem more important
to you because they live in a big city
and speak another language. I doubt it,
though. Leo, honestly, will you do better
work than you could do in Banton? Doesn’t
the overcoming of obstacles give you a sense
of achievement? You’ve done a lot for
our hospital. You can’t help doing it.
And you get some pleasure out of it—don’t
look like that! This is a town filled with
human beings, the same as you’ll find any-
where else in the world. If we fall sick
we have the right to expect attention,
just as we would have if we lived in Rome
or London. We aren’t dogs or trees just
because we live in a little town. We’re
as important—more important. Because
we’re doing something.... As for your happi-
ness —well, you alone know whether you’ll


&ig Sen
/i
on duty ... day and night
BIG BEN luminous points the hour . . . day and
night. In the dark, his glowing hands and
numerals are easily seen ... no need to make a
light.
And, day or night, Big Ben gives you the right
time. Like every Westclox alarm, Big Ben is
precision built for years of use. He outlasts
several clocks of cheaper make ... is worth the
trifle more it costs to own him.
Your dealer has dependable Westclox alarms
in durable nickel finish or a choice of colors, in
several models.
Prices from 9/6 to 26/6
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
Melbourne :: Sydney :: Perth :: Brisbane
I
re
A
i
Factory Representative s
JOHN ARNOLD
G.P.O. BOX 71, MELBOURNE
DvfiiGE N ITE
1 \ BATTERIES / c
and the
That’s the way a Dagenite
works .... pouring out
generous power . . . ,
stirring the most stubborn
engine. Fit a Dagenite to
your own car and see
how it does its work un-
falteringly, day and night
. . . . year in, year out.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
be more content anywhere else. If it’s the
consciousness of worth-while work that makes
you content —well, I’ve tried to tell you
what I think about it. If it’s”
But she could not go on. She could not
risk a sneering dismissal of her next argu-
ment. To her it seemed that the only
things one had were work and love. But
who knew what he thought? She was
fighting desperately. Her whole being was
a prayer. “God, don’t let me fail! I want
him. I want him here and to build my life
round him.”
“You argue well,” Leo said unevenly.
“But I do not feel as you do for Banton.
To me it is a primitive, negligible little settle-
ment. And I speak too pessimistic of myself.
I have a little more faith in my ability
than I pronounce. I can yet do something
with myself. Some big thing, perhaps, if
I return to my own country.... that is
within possibility.”
She drooped. “You know best,” she said
dully.
“Olwen, you would marry me and come
away with me?” His tone was dubious as
the thought which prompted the words.
She shook her head. “It would be a
failure. I would be a hindrance to you, you
know that. You don’t really want me to go
with you.” She saw on his face the con-
firmation of her own words and she blazed
at him: “You said that out of pity, didn’t
you? You’re feeling ashamed. Well, don’t.
I don’t want your pity and I don’t want
you to feel ashamed. I’m going!”
When he saw her move, blindly, wildly,
the last of his resistance fled. She was
gone from the room. For an instant he
stood quite still tasting all the emptiness of
a world without her.
She was fumbling with the door-bolts
when he caught her in his arms.
“Olwen!” His voice was thick and strange
to his own ears.
“Let me go! Please let me go.”
“Olwen, you love me, don’t you?”
“You know it. Why do you want to
torment me?” She thrust her head back
from his.
She loved him— him, Leo ; she wanted
him! What use was he to anyone else, to
himself? He didn’t care now. The
trouble of making decisions, of upheavals!
He would stay here and rot in her arms.
As he crushed his lips against her mouth,
he was drowned in a tide of passion such
as he had never known for any woman or
anything.
Beneath his kiss Olwen grew limp. Then
his passion infused vitality into her and
she clung to him. She dragged at him with
arms grown strong as his own and smothered
him with kisses.
“You love me, Leo?” Her voice was
hoarse and uneven.
“I love you.”
“Then nothing else matters!”
But while Leo drank intoxication, a cold
thought mocked him. “Other things do
matter. This will pass. This is the madness of
a moment. You are behaving like a fool!
This is another betrayal!”
“Olwen” The word was a question.
She drew back, flinching in his arms.
“What do you want, Leo?” Her voice
was barely above a whisper.
“You,” he said firmly, irrefutably.
Later, when the sun had veered from that
side of the house and the warm-toned
shadowiness of the room had turned cool
and greyish, she saw, while he saw nothing,
the clear, outlined future. He was hers
now, irrevocably. She knew that. She
could hold him. She had intelligence. In
the moment of her triumph she felt a
slightly contemptuous pity for Teresa, who
had failed so disastrously.
This was the moment when her life began.
He had said that only the strong achieve
their desires. Well, she was strong. Through
her eyes he would see Banton anew. She
fell to thinking of her ancestor Jeremiah Gil-
bert, whose strong, bearded face was so
familiar to her. She felt a strange, half-
religious veneration for the man whose
blood ran in her veins. “We are posses-
sors,” she thought grandly. “We take and
mould and build. I will do my little part,
too, Grandfather.”
The door-bell was ringing, shrill and in-
sistent; it brought her back to actuality
and with a start of dismay she realised her
position.
Whoever was ringing gave it up at last.
She heard the retreating footsteps.
“Leo,” she said, “I must go. It’s nearly
four o’clock.”
He left her smiling. When he came back
she had raised the window-blind, and the
sweet air, fragrant from sun-distilled flowers,
was scenting the room.
“Leo, are you content?”
“Nothing else matters to me.”
He was supremely comforted. He believed
what he said. The struggle was over and
his mind was completely at rest.
With her arms around him she told him
some of the things she had been thinking,
and as she envisioned for him the way they
would take he fell under the spell of her
soothing voice and was caught by her
imagery; to him, as to her, it seemed a
fine thing to work and love in Banton.
“Geography doesn’t matter,” she said,
“and the unswerving love of one person is
worth more than the chance stimulation by
many.”
His gratitude was enormous. In return for
the happiness and the peace she gave him,
he would at that moment have died will-
ingly to save her a slight hurt.
Insensibly, once her work was accom-
plished, she shifted her position; he became
the dominant one and his voice, resonant
and strong, outlined their position.
“You will never leave me, Leo? You
don’t want to go away, now, do you?” She
was supplicant, weak, crying to him.
“I will never leave you,” he said, and
thought he was master of them both.
When the ' door-bell rang again he
answered it. Nathan Gregory, lean and
weather-bitten, blinked at him from under a
down-turned hat.
“Doctor, I’ve come to see you about a
matter. Mr. Cartwright sent me to you.”
It transpired that now the family was
grown up and scattered he and the old
woman had decided to give up the house.
They’d got a job as a married couple out
with young Schultz. But at the last
moment, Schultz didn’t like to turn off the
housekeeper he had. She planned to go
in a few months, anyhow. Till then, he’d
like Nathan, but couldn’t have the old
woman. Would she be any use to the
Doctor for that time? He could recom-
mend her as far as cooking went.
Leo said, “Mr. Cartwright sent you up?”
Nathan twisted his hat in his hand. “Yes,”
he said.
“We 11”.... Leo was undecided. “Wait
one minute.”
He discovered Olwen in the kitchen, mak-
ing tea, and he told her what had occurred.
“Do you know anything of this woman? I
must have someone.”
. Olwen, facing him, leaned backwards on
down-turned palms pressed against the
scrubbed kitchen table. He noticed that
the place was clean, and knew she must
have been here some time before he had
found her; also that the sun glinting in
her hair made its gold like metal threads.
He was glad she was beautiful and health-
ily strong, and that her years with Michael
Ferrars had scarcely touched her.
“I know Mrs. Gregory. She’s not so old,
Leo; about fifty, and she’s strong as a
horse. You know these farm women who
keep on working until they’re a hundred.
A type we breed round here. Anyhow,
that’s not the point. She won’t be as good
as Miss McCodd with the patients, but she’s
not bad. She can use a telephone and read
and write. She’ll do for the time being.’
Suddenly meeting his eyes, she flushed. A
delicious shiver ran through her.
When he had gone she looked at the
stove, which needed blacking; at the sink,
which all her scrubbing had not made clean;
at the chair, which had one leg cracked.
She began to think about the house, pro-
gressed from it to various details of the
life opening before her. It would be good
to have an established position, to hold up
her head again, and feel proud.
When Leo came back she was gazing,
shining-eyed, at the blue range of hills
which met the sky to form a background for
the rural landscape framed by the window.
Chapter X.
(1)
Olwen and Leo were married in the
spring. It was nearly three years since
Teresa’s death. Leo walked down the aisle
of smiling faces, ducking his head to escape
a shower of confetti and meeting the flow-
ing plumes which crested Olwen’s hat.
Cartwright observed to Alan Macpher-
son, “Well, he’s one of us, now all right.
God knows I don’t crow when a fellow man
gets caught in the trap, but with a bait
like young Olwen it’s not so bad!”
“It’s to be hoped she has better luck this
time,” Macpherson said. “From Ferrars
she had a rough deal.”
Not one among the crowd gave a
moment’s thought to the doctor’s first wife.
Leo himself did not think of her until
the train was rolling down into the cutting.
They had a compartment thickly placarded
with “Engaged” notices ; and the floor and
seats, littered with colored confetti, bore wit-
ness to the effusion of the friends who bade
laughing farewells at the station. Olwen, in
her long grey travelling cloak and veiled
hat, sat bolt upright, almost dumb with
happiness.
“Leo,” she said unevenly, “I can hardly
believe it. It seems too wonderful. Am I
really married to you?”
“As married as Church and State and
fifty good friends can do it,” he said smiling.
He thrust up a window, and as the train
bumped round the curve preparatory to
the descent into the cutting, he saw dis-
tinctly the tree-covered knoll, a green wave
flecked with white, which was the cemetery.
He felt a sudden stab of anguish and re-
mained leaning out the window until the
red clay and rock mosaic of the cutting
sides rose steeply a few feet from his eyes
and blocked his vision.
Olwen held out her arms to him, but
dropped them uncertainly at the sight of
his pale, drawn face.
“Leo, aren’t you well?”
He had resolved to close the chapter of
his life with Teresa and to gum down the
pages. This was Olwen’s marriage, and he
would endeavor, he had thought, to wipe
out all the past as completely as she had
done it. Looking at her now he discerned
in her face a shining, virgin freshness; she
was new, reborn; not a hint of the past
clouded her happiness, her eagerness for
him. He felt old and scarred and envious
He passed a hand across his eyes.
“Too much good wine,” he said, trying to
smile. But her perceptions, love-inspired,
were acute.
“Leo, you were thinking when you looked
out there you saw you were thinking
of Teresa?”
(To he continued newt week.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
With racing prohibited on Anzac Day, the
Moonee Valley meeting last Friday served
as a week-end fixture for Melbourne turf
patrons, who fared much better as punters
than they had done for some time. Burke,
the Flemington trainer, carried off the Trial
Hurdle with Rapier, who shared favoritism
with Rou Miki. Rou Mild dislocated a fet-
lock and ruptured the suspensory ligament
of his off foreleg; he had to be destroyed.
Ridden by Alan Armsden, who distinguished
himself by landing the Onkaparinga Steeple-
chase on Shooting Boy, Rapier scored in
handsome fashion from Isocrates and Sir
Carillon. Though low-set, Rapier is sym-
metrically-built. The late C. N. Meyers
bought him as a yearling for SUtlgns., but
did no good with the gelding. Rapier is a
half-brother to Amusement and Sum King,
their darn being Sumurun, by Bobadil from
Tortile.
111-luck pursues Tindall, now located in
Melbourne. He failed to pull off betting-
coups with Mollison, and had the mortifica-
tion of seeing The Dimmer, a former posses-
sion, win the Sydney Cup and other rich
events. Tindall went for a plunge on Marl-
borough in the Juvenile Handicap at the
Valley. Marlborough—a son of Saltash,
bred by Hugh Denison —was backed down to
3 to 1 and challenged the favoritism of
Valiant Maid. He ran up to her after two
furlongs had been traversed, and looked to
have her measure; however, Valiant Maid
is not only very fit but a fine weight-carrier.
At it they went, hammer and tongs, to the
home turn, where Marlborough cracked;
Valiant Maid scored brilliantly from Pink
Lady, with Marlborough third. Pink Lady
is a Chrysolaus filly, bred by C. B. Kellow
and trained by George Harrison, who won
the Standisli Handicap twice for Kellow on
Blue Cross.
Ralph Horne, the former jockey, is acquir-
ing flesh and a modicum of wealth as a Mel-
bourne trainer. He came to light with St.
Lucia (St. Anton —Lady Honor) in the
Soldiers’ Handicap. This mare, held on
lease from bookmaker Wallace Mitchell, had
lost a five-furlong sprint at Woodend three
days before through bad riding; but suffi-
Bert: "Great shot 1 Gert’’
<sert SHUSH 1 l hanhht started vet”
Bert {'You AvRE PJOTZUHG,
FORM TOOAvV."
f _ "
Dont e>E PERSONAL DERT.,
cient regard was not paid to this fact, and
6 to 1 could be obtained about her, while
Crystallised Glass firmed from 5 to 1 to
7 to 2. Perhaps the result would have been
different if Crystallised Glass had got a
good spin early; as it was, St. Lucia led
from post to finish and lasted long enough to
win by a head from Corbella, with Crystal-
lised Glass a neck farther off. J. T. Ryan
has done well with Crystallised Glass (Wal-
lace Islinglass—Smart Walk) since he
bought her at the dispersal sale of horses
bred by the late John Brown. He served
his apprenticeship as a jockey with William
Booth, and is still a young man.
Gwillian G’s victory in the Sydney Cup
of 1930 went to show that horses sired by
sons of The Welkin can be more than mere
speed-machines. Koolparoo (Thrice —Lar-
lee) finished second in the Albury Cup after
being out of the race to all intents and
purposes. She came at the right end of the
Guthrie Welter at the Valley, winning by a
head from Finsbury. Claude Goodfellow,
who visited Sydney at Easter with Mulcra,
bred Koolparoo; he sold the mare to Mrs.
M. C. Stagg, licensee of a Moonee Ponds
hotel. At intervals Mrs. Stagg has owned
many gallopers; one of her purchases was
Comus (imp.), the horse that ruined Pan-
theon’s Melbourne Cup chance by assuming
an alarming lead and compelling Jim Pike
to go after him.
The middle-distance Matrons’ Handicap
went to Paybon, a five-»year-old mare by
Magpie. Her win was the easiest of the
afternoon. Mural Crown, a hot favorite,
credited wool-baron A. T. Creswick with the
Henderson Handicap, but the Rossendale
filly only scraped home, and would have lost
but for Spearearl swerving when nearing
the judge’s box. Mural Crown is trained
by Bradfield, who did no good at the
A.J.C. autumn meetings, but subsequently
won the Albury Cup with Hazelwood.
* * * *
For Epsom on Saturday:—
Brush Steeplechase: Patriotic; next, Rak-
wool.
Epsom Handicap: Liquid Cry; next,
Broken Doll.
* * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Kogarah Stakes: Intrepid; next, Stately.
Flying Handicap: Promptitude; next,
Prince Verderer.
Moorefield Handicap: Jeypore; next,
Flinders.
Carlton Welter: Amanullah ; next, Antio-
ch us.
* * $ *
A meeting at Rosehill will seem strange
without G, W. S. Rowe, the club’s fine old
secretary, who died at the week-end, aged 81.
Mr. Rowe helped to lay out the course, and
as secretary was present at the first races there
in 1885. He became secretary again
in 1904, having meanwhile served the Canter-
bury and Warwick Farm clubs in the same
capacity. He was popular with all sections
of the racing fraternity; the jockeys —not
always keen on racecourse officials—showed
their appreciation by a present a few months
ago. One of the three sons (there are four
daughters also) is on the Rosehill staff;
another is assistant-secretary to the A.J.C.;
the third is a clergyman.
* * * *
Reports of Phar Lap’s condition are un-
favorable. The trouble which prevented his
appearance at Randwick during the Easter
meetings has not yielded to treatment, and
it is unlikely that he will be able to race
during the spring; indeed he may never
race again. Many great Australian horses,
Manfred and Wallace among them, had to
retire from the turf at four years. Manfred
and Wallace were stallions; Phar Lap is, of
course, a gelding. With a Pike to ride him
in all his engagements he might have lasted
as long as Amounis has done, but old hands
who saw the splendid chestnut ridden liell-
for-leather in some of his three-year-old races
over long distances shook their heads and
predicted that his turf career would be short.
Perhaps they were wrong; it is to be hoped
they were.
* * * *
“Mounts Bay”: If there were a doubles
tote at Randwick, not one bookmaker
would be lading doubles on that course.
Consider the divs. returned by the doubles
tote at Belmont (Perth) recently, book-
makers’ starting prices being in parentheses.
The Martyr (7 to 1) and Clyde (7 to 1)
paid £3O Is., or 120 to 1, on the ss. tote.
Clyde (7 to 1) and Sir Lucullus (7 to 2)
paid £2B 155., 115 to 1. Sir Lucullus (7 to
2) and Noon jay (8 to 1) paid £4B 45., 192
to 1. Noon jay (8 to 1) and Exceeder (6 to
1) paid £46 145., 186 to 1. Exceeder (6 to 1)
and Imperial Guard (7 to 1) paid £5B 35.,
232 to 1. Imperial Guard ran second, no
ticket being taken on the winning horses;
skinners, which rejoice the heart of McShort-
odds, are spurned by the machine. If no
punter picks the two firsts, or first and
second, it pays first and third; £5B 35., the
same as the Exceeder-Imperial Guard div.,
was paid on Chrysophris (first) and Stun-
sail (third) at Goodwood a few weeks ago.
The doubles tote has come to stay in Perth;
it has caught on in Adelaide; and if it were
introduced in Sydney and Melbourne the
“little-double” layers of dynamite odds would
soon shut their bags.
* * * *
Like the A.J.C. and most other Australian
clubs, the V.R.C. has decided to cut stakes.
The Melbourne Cup prize comes down from
£lO,OOO to £7OOO, the Grand National
Steeplechase from £5OOO to £3OOO, the G. N.
Hurdle Race and the Cantala Stakes from
£2OOO to £l5OO, the Maribynong Plate and
the Ascotvale Stakes and the St. Leger from
£2OOO to £l5OO. The Victorian Derby will
be reduced next year from £5OOO to £4OOO.
The V.A.T.C. has yet to announce its Caul-
field Cup and other cuts.
* * * *
“Cetigne” : Maoriland sportsmen are specu-
lating on how the mating of Night Raid and
Desert Gold will result. If blood does tell,
the pair should give the. Turf some bobby-
dazzlers. Night Raid, of course, sired Phar
Lap and Nightmarch (now retired) ; Desert
Gold was one of the best mares we have
ever seen. There is a strain of Galopin and
Carbine blood in each. Other champions
have been mated and have failed to produce
stock worthy of their breeding. But that
won’t deter owners from paying big money
for Night Raid —Desert Gold yearlings
if they are placed under the hammer.
* * * *
“Sloper”: On rare occasions the tote plays
fantastic tricks. At Ascot (Tas.) trots re-
cently Royal Mac returned a dividend of
£25 iBs. on the machine with three chances.
Straightout backers of the steed received
£ll 18s. They are both ss. implements.
Footbrawl
Although there were no races in Sydney
on Anzac Day there was football —an incon-
sistency which baffles the racing man. On
the greatly improved Sports Ground, from
the slopes and stands of which 37,000 citi-
zens can now urge Pongo on to tear the
innards out of Porky, Eastern Suburbs in-
flicted a dreadful doing on University—4o
points to 2. Supporters of Western Suburbs
and St. George saw an immeasurably better
game at Earl Park. Kadwell, sometime of
South Sydney, now plays with St. George,
and at his instance the side experimented
with five forwards against the premiers’
six; but the formation did not work with
South Sydney precision, and West’s six had
things all their own way towards the finish.
West, 19; St. George, 12; for the winners
Cornwall kicked five goals, four of them
beauties. South Sydney, with Root in the for-
wards again and Morrison, formerly of the
Police and Randwick Union sides, among the
backs, got the better of a rough game with
Newtown, 22 to 17; H'olmes, the loser’s cap-
tain, was among the casualties. There was
no score in the Balmain-North Sydney match
till five minutes before full time; then
Roberts, of ’Main, had the .flags raised for
a victorious goal.
* * # *
“C.A.8.”: War has broken out again
among the N.S.W. towns which play Rugby
League football for the Maher Cup. Ward,
Ilarden-Murrumburrah’s star performer, is a
Government school-teacher, and it is darkly
alleged that the Government* has been asked
to transfer him to Cootamundra, so that he
may bog in for the “Coota” XIII. grimly
intent on winning back the Maher Cup. The
day is dawning when elections will be won
and lost on issues concernings the transfers
of footballers.
*l* H* H*
“H'.K.”; Frank Rule, whose work of coach
is already apparent in the improvement of
the Muswellbrook (N.S-W.) Rugby League
players, was one of the best straight-running
and clean-handling centres the 13-a-side code
has produced. A member of the North
Sydney first-grade club in 1920, his clever-
ness in that position in no small mea-
sure contributed to the Shoremen’s City
Cup victory that winter. He gained State
rep. honors in 1921, and when the Austral-
asian team was selected to tour England that
season, was one of the first men chosen.
Business ties, however, prevented him from
accompanying the team. In his day he was
also one of the finest hurdlers in Australia;
he won the 120 yards and 440 yards Metro-
politan hurdles championship prior to en-
listing in 1916, and the Dunn Shield 120
yards and 440 yards after returning in 1919.
* * * *
“W.” Advice on sport from Duncan
Thompson, the great Rugby League half-back
of other days, is surely worth having. The
other day he told a crowd of young fellows
that every boy should play football at school.
By the time he is 19 or 20 he will know
whether he is capable of becoming a player
of outstanding ability; if not, says Duncan,
he should turn his energies to other games
—cricket, tennis, golf. Duncan himself has
turned very successfully to these games since
he retired from active football. He is a rep-
resentative tennis-player for Queensland, is
captain of the Toowoomba rep. cricket team,
and is pulling his golf handicap down rapidly.
* * * *
Manly’s Rugby Union XV now has Mal-
colm for scrum half, and the nippy and in-
domitable Waratah is going to make a great
difference to the side. In a capital game on
the local ground Manly downed University
by 14 to 9. In Mutton Uni. has found a
capable successor to Alick Ross at fullback.
Ross is now helping Eastern Suburbs, and
against Western Suburbs at Parramatta he
showed all his old skill at line-kicking; but
West was a bit stronger in other depart-
ments, and left the ground, dog-tired but
happy, a point to the good—6 to 5. The
crowd at Sydney C. G. saw a great effort
by Drummoyne (Glebe-Balmain that was)
to win a battle that seemed hopelessly lost,
Well served by its fleet backs, especially
Towers, White and cricketer Marks, Rand-
wick' was 27 to 6 20 minutes before the
end; led by Cerutti, the Drummoyne pack
took charge and in that brief space put on
six tries. With a bit better shooting, the
Drummoyne lads would have won: as it was,
they scored 25 to 27—7 tries each, with
Randwick having the odd goal.
* * * *
“St. Kilda”: The Rugby Union game is
making some headway in Victoria. There
was a bit of a surplus for the season, though
the Vies, had to make good a loss of nearly
£lOO on the visit of the British team. This
year will see an increase in the number of
clubs, Geelong, as well as its metropolis,
having developed an interest in the game. So
far there will be nine A-grade teams in the
competition, with eight each in B and C.
* * * *
“Forward”: The money there is in English
Soccer! Gates at the semi-final matches,
Birmingham v. Sunderland and West Brom-
wich Albion v. Everton, totalled £ll,OOO.
The attendance was over 120,000, yet. it was
a day of almost Arctic cold. Birmingham
and West Bromwich Albion, two close neigh-
bors, met in the final, and their supporters
liad to trek to London to see which was the
better team West Bromwich Albion won by
2. g° a ]s to 1; there were 90,000 at Wembley,
though the weather was dreadful.
. rZ—Z „ .
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Nineteen-year-old Fred Hannaberry won
his 18th consecutive contest when he stopped
the colored American Walter Lee at Leich-
hardt in 11 rounds. Lee (10.4 j) fought with
more fire than he had shown here before, but
Hannaberry (10.7) kept beating him to the
punch.. He is a good lad this Hannaberry,
and with shrewd match-making during the
next year or two he will go far.
Billy Richards (10.6 J) made the pace
warm for Jack Carroll early in
their encounter at Sydney Stadium —so much
so that his supporters thought he would
outslug the man from Melbourne. But
when Carroll began connecting with snappy
lefts, Richards lost much of his impetuosity,
and a not very weighty wallop knocked him
through the ropes for “eight” in the sixth
round. Carroll punished his man unmerci-
fully in the seventh, and with a left upper-
cut knocked him down just before the bell.
Richards was still out at the call for the
next round.
Car and Cycle
“Spark”; Not very much has been allowed
to leak out concerning the structural details
of Malcolm Campbell’s “Bluebird II.” It is
now known, however, that the Napier motor
was an aero, engine, developing 1450 h.p. and
weighing only 11401 b than 1250 Z. to
the h.p. The cylinders were arranged on the
broad-arrow system, one bank vertical and a
bank on each side at an acute angle. An
engine of similar type won the Schneider
trophy for Britain in 1927. Another matter
not stated quite clearly by the cables is that
the frequently-quoted 246.08 m.p.h. was made
over a flying kilometre. The mile record
stands at 245.73 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Wind Tunnel”: The special cars built of
late for making speed records have been
remarkable for the meticulous care bestowed
on stream-lining by their designers, and the
success of the innovation has now appealed
to makers of commercial cars. .Recently
one M. Jaray, long associated with the Zep-
pelin factories, constructed a special stream-
lined car body for road use. Another car of
the same make and power, but with an ordi-
nary sedan body, was then pitted against the
other in a series of tests, the seating accom-
modation of the cars being the same. The
tests consisted in getting the cars to top
speed and then letting them run with a dis-
engaged engine. In all cases the stream-
lined car gave from 25 to 35 per cent, greater
distance. In the petrol tests at an average
speed of 32 m.p.h. the stream-lined car aver-
aged 22.5 miles per gallon, and the sedan
13.8, or 40 per cent, in favor of the first car.
* * * *
“Differential”: A remarkable reliability
trial, in which a model-A Ford standard car
figured, has just ended in Germany. The
job set Elizabeth —-her elder sister was Lizzie
—was to do better than 620 miles per day
for 100 consecutive days on the German
roads. The car was halted three times daily
for checking, but otherwise the run was
non-stop. There were four pairs of drivers,
relieving each other 14' hours; they had
to comply with varying speed regulations in
passing through 19,950 villages and 2000
towns in the long test. The car, a genuine
stock model, carried only an extra spare
wheel beyond the usual equipment.
* * *
“Van Hux”: Devotees of dirt-track rac-
ing are disappointed that Tommy Benstead
has decided not to join the contingent of
Aussie riders in England. Although approach-
ing 32 years of age, Tommy can still hold his
own against all-comers. He has won Aus-
tralian championships for 2Jf, 31 and all-
power machines; he has been first home in
the 100-mile Australian road championship;
he has exceeded 100 m.p.h. over the mile,
and he established a road-record between Mel-
bourne and Sydney, a distance of’ 600 miles,
when sections of the way were no better
than bush tracks.
(Continued on next page.)
“Rev. Knucklebone”; There have been
many complaints among N.S.W. tennis-
players about the price of tennis balls. The
matter was discussed at a conference between
representatives of the Ma State Hard Court
Association and of the manufacturing inter-
ests. The contention of the players was
that the balls were being soH in England at
the same price as in Australia, and they
wanted to know why the locally-made article
was not the cheaper of the two. The fact
that almost every component of a tennis
ball except the air inside it has to be im-
ported was explained, as also was the bear-
ing of exchange, tariff, primage and sales
tax on the local price. In Britain similar
handicaps do not prevail. The representa-
tives of the players expressed themselves
as satisfied.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”; The results of the mail
vote taken by the Australian Olympic Fed-
eration on certain proposals show a majority
of the States in favor. The first proposal
was that instead of calling a conference the
matter relative to the agenda be discussed
by the various State Councils and decided
upon by mail vote. The second proposal
was that each controlling body should elect
its own selector, and that each selector should
sit on the Federation’s selection committee.
Only the Vic. Council and the Amateui'
Boxing Union voted in the negative, ihe
unwieldiness of a selection committee on
similar lines, with its continual clashing or
rival interests, was largely responsible tor
the poor showing made at Amsterdam.


Clubs of
Distinction!
No matter what the grade, each
“Cony” Club is faithfully con-
structed and representative of
the very highest standard in
golf club craftsmanship. Un-
questionably the most distinc-
tive complete Club Series sold
in Australia to-day.
*O2
V's
r <
<-U«vujrt
s>&
“WILL
CORRY”
De Luxe
Golf Clubs
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted',
Gun-metal Finish, Matched
Woods, Nos. 1 to 3 ... 30/
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted',
Gun-metal Finish, Graded
Irons, Nos. 1 to 9 .... 30/-
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted',
Hickory Sheath, Matched
Woods, Nos. 1 to 3 ... 37/G
“Corry” De Luxe Steel-shafted',
Hickory Sheath, Graded
Irons, Nos. 1 to 9 .... 5 3/-
A Special Club
De Luxe!
“Corry” De Luxe Tru-
Temper, Steel-shafted
Matched Woods (Inlaid
Faces). Each ... 4>5/ m
COUNTRY GOLFERS
State your specific requirements and
Mr. Corry tuill make a personal
selection for you.
Teach that Lad of
Yours How to
Defend Himself!,...
J
BOYS*
BOXING
GLOVES
Napa Leather.
Set 9/0
Leather, laced
palms. Set,
11/-, 12/0
Laced Palms,
padded wrist.
>Set ...13/0
Special Youths’ Size, laced palms.
Set 13/0
(Carriage paid on goods listed above.)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0.,
Hay market, Sydney.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
7 2 0 HAY MARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and
Home Entertainment.’'
The Nineteenth Hole
“Coulsdon”: A scratch man who has
sampled them all surprised me by putting
Royal Sydney a long way down the list of
Sydney’s best courses. Postulating that
diverse and sporting holes have always been
the chief requirements of the ancient game,
and that picturesqueness comes next, he put
Avondale first, with Kensington (a very
interesting course, though ugly) second, and
then Roseville, Pymble and Ivillara in that
order. Mosman he. considered the most
attractive 9-hole in the State, and The Lakes
the course with the greatest possibilities for
championship purposes. He condemned
Royal Sydney for its fairways (which merge
into one another so that a bad slice or puil
may give the perpetrator as good a lie as if
he had gone straight), its artificiality, flat-
ness and hideous surroundings. Finally, he
damned its clubhouse as the most frightful
architecturally on earth. Eeura —first made
famous by E. P. Simpson, the champion all-
round sportsman who started Royal Sydney
—-is this authority’s idea of a perfect links,
lie classes it in all but its greens and club-
house with such English inland courses as
Sunningdale and Wentworth.
* * :i: *
“Depreshed”: Touching green fees (B.
15/4/’3l) ? Is there any part of the world
outside Australia where members of golf
clubs are required to pay them on their own
links? If members of a social club were
asked to pay every time they used it the
membership would fall off, and the diuing-
room and other profits decline in short
order; and that is just what is happening in
some golf clubs. The paltry little ramp is
annoying apart from finance. If a player
feels like cutting-in at a hole near his
house on a week-day, when cutting-in isn’t
going to inconvenience other members, he
has an uneasy feeling that anyone seeing
him do it may suspect he is taking the club
down. So he probably gives the game a miss,
and the club’s bar and other trades suffer.
I have an idea that the first committee that
cuts out green fees for members will find
inside 12 months that its club is making
money as a result of the change.
* :!: $ *
“Bloggs”: It’s lucky that golf is one of the
sports on which no one wagers much money.
There is no game in which form varies so
much. Take P. J. Symes, the Brisbane
SCALING IT DOWN.
TROUBLED PUG: “ ’E’s ’ andin’ me two punches fer every one I’m givin’ ’im. Wot’d
I better do?”
FED-UP TRAINER: “Don’t ’it ’im at all, an’ y’ll on’y get ’alf the ’idin’ yer gettin’ now!”
golfer, as a case in point. His handicap at
home is 13. Yet lie went round Rose Bay
recently in six under bogey, registering one
birdie after another in the process. On the
day he was a plus-4 man. Young J. D.
Stuart won the A.I.F. Cup the year before
last with a scratch player’s score, though
he had a mug’s handicap. He now repre-
sents Royal Sydney in A-grade matches, and
wins in his turn. But the oddest phenomenon
of all is J. 11. Kirkwood, the one-time Manly
caddie .who is now one of the U.S.A.’s
best-known pros. On form he should be un-
beatable. There is nothing he can’t make
a ball do with a golf club. Yet he is liable
to be licked by the most unreliable front-
rankers (I saw Tolley beat him in England
in ’26), and he has no more chance of
winning a worth-while championship than I
have.
* s*: #
“D.”: Minny golf is nearly as dead as
the Australian party in Sydney’s inner
suburbs, and it only retains a semblance of
life in outer ones where the inhabitants have
nothing to do o’ nights. Barring bowlette,
which was slain almost at birth by the fool-
law, I can’t remember any quasi-sporting
craze which blossomed and died so quickly;
and I have had a go at them all, from roller-
skating onwards. Lack of effort was its
principal- disability. Then enthusiasts, out-
side the flapper class who revel in any sort
of limelight, needed the hides of politicians
to indulge in it. It was pitiful to see elderly
folk trying to hit balls through the portcul-
lises of toy castles, etc., while an often
ribald crowd criticised their miserable fail-
ures through wire fences.
'Jfi * $ ❖
“Query”: Notice hung up near the first
tee of the Canberra club :
As the course is not meant to be carried away,
The divots you cut in the course of your play
Should be neatly replaced by your caddie or you,
With their roots to the earth and their blades to
the dew.
That the versified reminder has not been
wasted on the club members, who are, for
the most part, long-markers, is evident from
the well-kept tees and the absence of annoy-
ing incidental hazards on the fairways.
Car and Cycle
“Garry”: The car which is being built in
Sydney to enable Norman Smith to tackle
the world’s record for the ■ flying mile is
nearly completed. So far as the body is
concerned it is almost a replica of Segrave’s
Golden Arrow, but the streamlining of
the wheels is after the style of Kaye Don’s
Silver Bullet. It was intended to have a
fly at the record on Nipety-mile Beach
(M.L.) early this year, but the con-
struction of the car has taken longer
than was expected, and as winter is near
and the beach will not be at its best
till the spring, the attempt has been
postponed till October. Sir Malcolm Gamp-
bell, who earlier promised that if Smith beat
his speed (245.7 m.p.h.) he would to
M.L. and endeavor to regain his laurels, has
now decided to have another go in any case.
Bluebird 11. is being altered as the result
of Campbell’s experience at Daytona, and
early next year will be tried out again, pro-
bably on the Maoriland beach.
* * * *
“Dungaree”: For some years past every
advance in automobile speed has been attri-
butable to the ingenuity of the designers of
aero motors, who have left the petrol engine
much lighter, more efficient and more reliable
than they found it. Another great stride
forward was made when Capt. Woolson, of
the Packard Co., solved various knotty prob-
lems and successfully applied the Diesel
principle to an aero motor. The advantages
of this system are, briefly, greater simplicity
and reliability, there being no electrical igni-
tion apparatus and a 20 per cent, reduction
in weight and 30 per cent, in volume of fuel.
Automobile speed problems, now that the art
of streamlining has been practically per-
fected, reduce themselves to equations m
weight and power, a field in which Diesel,
though he didn’t know it, opened up a wider
scope than did Daimler. A good deal of
research work in connection with the adap-
tation of the Diesel engine for car-racing pur-
poses has been done by the American engineer
C. L. Cummins, who has produced a car
that bettered 100 m.p.h. on Daytona Beach
—it will compete in the Indianapolis
“500” next month. The suitability of
the Diesel engine for trucks and tractors
and other vehicles in which weight doesn’t
matter much was long ago proved in Ger-
many, and there is a large fleet of Diesel-
ongined ’buses operating in London to-day.
“Lady Liz”: A new sort of endurance-
contest insanity seems likely to be engen-
dered in the U.S.A., already' famous for its
pole-sitting and jazzing records, by the feat
of two brothers, Ralph and Holland Davis,
who drove a Ford car of the new model
around the roads for 16J weeks without
stopping the engine. They covered 47,138
miles at the rate of a shade under 17 m.p.li.,
and walloped the previous record of 171
days and 13,458 miles into a cocked hat.
All that was proved thereby was the already
well-known fact that if an engine built by
Henry Ford or any other intelligent maker
of these days is kept supplied with petrol
it will run till it wears out.
* * * *
“0.H.V.”: The world’s motor-cycling re-
cord is now within coo-ee of 150 m.p.h. In
the last three years there has been keen com-
petition between Britain and Germany in
this field. Early last year Ernest Henne,
a German, riding a 740-c.c. supercharged
8.M.W., beat the record of H. Le Vack
(Britain) by covering a mile at 134.68 m.p.h.
Le Vack rode a 998-c.c. Brough-Superior. Then
J. S. Wright, with a supercharged 1000-c.c.
O. E. ,C. Jap., developing 84 b.-h.p., pushed
the speed up to 135.84 m.p.h. Henne re-
sponded with 137.66 m.p.h., and a few days
ago, at Vienna, riding a 750-c.c. machine,
registered 148.09 m.p.h. over the flying kilo-
metre. On the same day, using a 500-c.e.
mount, he covered the kilometre at 127.1
m.p.h. Glenn Curtiss’s Daytona Beach one-
way record of 1382 m.p.li., made a quarter
of a century ago with a freak eight-cylindered
monster of 2500 c.c., pales into insignificance
beside the performance of the modern super-
charged small motors, and with it goes the
fast half-mile put up at Sellick’s Beach, near
Adelaide, a few years ago by the American
P. Anderson, who worked up a bat of 126
m.p.h. on a 989-c.c. Indian Twin.
* * * *
“Deutschland Über Alles”: Germany has
determined to get into line with. France and
hold an annual cycle race on the lines of the
famous Tour de France. The promoters are
the well-known firm of ©pels, who have been
coquetting of late with the rocket-propelled
motor-car. The tour will total 2542 miles,
ridden in 16 stages, and will commence at
Russelstein, near Frankfort, on May 3, and
end there three weeks later, with four rest
days allowed. As the journey will include the
mountainous south and south-east of Ger-
many, these last should be welcome. As is
now the case in the French Tour, all com-
petitors must ride the same make of bike ;
in this case, Opels’. Six teams of six riders
each are to be invited from various European
countries, though no mention is made of
Britain or the Australians Opperman or
Lamb, who are to ride in the Tour de France
with a French team.
Miscellaneous
Thanks very largely to Dr. E. P. Bar-
bour’s tine leadership, Randwick wound up
the Sydney cricket season at the head of the
first-grade list, and, as it was on top in the
second- and third-grade competitions as well, it
collected the club championship. Its best bats-
man was young Marks; its best bowler,
McNamee. Neither has anything to thank
the State selectors for. The dropping of
McNamee, just when he seemed to be quali-
fying for the Australian XI, is a cricket
mystery. “Old Bill” Bassett, of Mosman,
once more bagged most wickets during the '
season —61 at 18.7.9. Bassett has never j
caught the State selectors’ eye.
* * ❖ ❖ !
Though dropped from the State eleven
years ago, A. E. Liddicut, captain of Fitz-
roy, is still a power in Melbourne club
cricket. In a sense, South Melbourne prac-
tically presented Fitzroy with its first pre-
miership pennant. The game began on the
fast and recuperative Albert Ground, near
St. Kilda-road, and Morton, winning the
toss, told ’Boy’s skipper to go in. Lid. went
in, and it was nearly the end of the second
day before ’Roy was out —for *l4l, Liddicut
himself piling up 114 (incidentally being
missed by Morton at 77), and Lansdown
60. South could do no better than 167;
Lawson 39 and Featherstone 35. Liddicut!
himself helped to run out two Southerners :
and took 4 for 40. It was Lid.’s game, and ;
it was a great season for him (his batting
average was 50, and he took 45 wickets at
13), but there would be more joy about it if
he were a youngster instead of being in the
sere and yellow.
:J: * #
“S.T.S.” : Norman Williams, of Port Adel-
aide, has equalled the long-standing record of
Joe Travers in taking most wickets in an
Adelaide club season eight times ; the last
seven have been consecutive. Williams is
unfortunate in being contemporary with
Grimmett, just as Travers in his day got into
only one Test match through being over-
shadowed by another lefthander, Saunders.
“Garfield” : Mat Higgins, dead at Ilobart
in his 88th year, was in the ’sixties and
’seventies the finest all-round runner in A us- |
tralia.. No distance troubled him; anything
from 100yds. to 10 miles would do. In
1873, with the thermometer at llOdeg. in j
the shade, he ran 10 miles in 57min. 40sec. |
Mat joined the Tas. police force, and after
35 years’ service retired in 1912 with the
rank of sergeant. One son, Jack, is a
member of the N.S.W. Leg. Council.
:!: ❖ #
“Garry”: Up till comparatively recent
years it used to be reckoned that the amount
of power required to drive any sort of boat
at more than 30 m.p.li. must be reckoned in
thousands of h.p. The hydroplane type of
construction, coupled with the introduction
of the petrol-motor, has altered all that.. An
Italian sportsman, Dacco, has driven a smail
boat fitted with a 1000 c.c. (10 h.p.) out-
board motor at 52.604 m.p.li., beating the
world’s record previously held by Charles
ITarrison, whose speed was 52.09 m.p.li.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: For the first time for
years neither the Oxford nor Cambridge
crews contained a “colonial” oarsman. Platt
Mills, of Maoriland, was selected as a mem-
ber of the Dark Blue eight, but his name
does not appear among the losing crew. It
is interesting to note how the rival Univer-
sities have taken it in turn to stage long
series of wins in the famous event. Though
this last was the eighth consecutive victory
for the Cantabs, they have had their bad
trots, the Oxonians winning nine consecu-
tive times from 1861 to 1869 and from 1890
to 1898. Before the Light Blues started
their present run in 1924 their best perform-
ance was, five on end from 1870 to 1874. In
the last 30 years, leaving out the 1914-19
period, when there was no racing, Oxford
has won only eight races.
jJj * ❖ *
“Swifter In” : The challenge sent by the
Royal Yacht Club of Victoria to its oppo-
site number in N.S.W. to race for the
Sayonara Cup at Sydney next year contains
elements of absurdity. The challenging
yacht is to be the Sydney-built Vanessa,
Which has won the Cup for N.S.AV. three
years in succession, and was later bought
by Victorian yachtsman J. A. Linacre.
Surely Victoria is capable of building a
boat to challenge without having to hire
mercenaries, so to speak? This is not the
only instance of the Vic. tendency to build
on the performances of others. Eun-na-mara,
another N.S.W. craft, has been a Vic. repre-
sentative in the recent past.
“Long Rest” : Joe Davis’s feat in making
five four-figure breaks against Walter Lip-
drum put him ahead of Willie Smith, whose
best effort in this direction was four made
against Fred Lindrum in 1928. Tommy
Newman strung together seven runs over the
thousand playing against Clark McConacliy,
who can claim to have done the trick four
times. At the top of the list, of course, is
the incomparable Walter, with 11 breaks
over a thousand, when he defeated Willie
Smith by over 20,000 points.
$ * *
“Ride Off” : The hard times have hit the
polo-players heavily, and many of the leading
N.S.W. teams will not turn out this year. A
compromise has been arrived at by the forma-
tion of the Australian polo club at Camden.
Besides local members, the Ashton brothers,
from Goulbut'n, who recently toured Britain
and America, and Maple Browne and Curtis
Skene, both also notable, in the polo world,
will play with this club.


llndei*
/Royal
Arrant
Vintage 1920.
To H.M.
Kin*
George V
CHAMPAGNE
tofalleidsieck
5101) Eli®
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagnc
t-toriesllcidsiecv
Rei-ms
“MERCURY’’ BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
Missing Friends.
HTO YUGOSLAV BOARDING-HOUSE-
-1 KEEPERS, RESIDENTIALS AND
OTHERS CATERING FOR AUSTRO-
HUNGARIAN PATRONAGE.
ANDREW ZANKISH.
INFORMATION is sought concerning the
whereabouts of ANDREW ZANKISH, some-
times known as Andrija Zankich, Andrew
Zankich, Zanish or Zankey, son of the
late Vinka Zankish (also known as Vincenza
or Vincenca Zankich), of Leichhardt, near
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Andrew Zankich is believed to have been
born in May, 1890, in Vis (or Lissa),
Dalmatia. Any person knowing his where-
abouts should communicate with PERPET-
UAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
d
ďf
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
A LEX., send some word. Very anxious.
Did you see advt. 14th March? Put
advt. in this paper. Very lonely, Helen.
CCHULZE, THEODOR CARL, formerly of
l9 The Grove, Moreland, Victoria,
Farmer.
WOULD the above forward to the under-
signed his address or any address to which
can be forwarded papers for his signature rc
J. G. MacKenzie. Would any person know-
ing his address please send same to the
undersigned.
McNAB & McNAB,
454 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria.
The Great Far-West Daily.
“The Barrier Miner” tells all the
people all the world’s news twice
every day. Tell your business story
to Broken Hill and all the West o’
Darling people in
“The Barrier Miner.”
I
m||
guii
d
Cash’s Ribbons are
made in daintiest fade-
less Pastel Shades, and
are ideal for Shoulder
Straps and Lingerie.
ďf
Look like new after
repeated washing—ob-
tainable in a variety of
widths.
Ask your Draper for Cash’s
J.&. J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond, Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER.
The sun shone palely gold in the blue sky
above the last of the Anzac procession, but
the streets were wet from the downpour of
rain that had swept across the city, soaked
through the Diggers’ hats and coats, and
found the thin places in worn boots. There
were (alas!) many shabby boots, but there
wasn’t one pair of shabby shoulders. The
shoulders were the shoulders of conquerors.
Whether the marchers were prosperous or
the reverse they swung down Bridge-street
with the same pride of achievement, the same
glory in the brotherhood they share with
Australia’s immortal dead. Through the
murk the rich colors of banners flowed, and
later, under the clean-washed sky, medals
gleamed, and the ribbons they were mounted
on flung back as many colors as a crystal
prism. The Governor walked in the proces-
sion. He walked with the men of Mons,
the bayonet of war-time replaced by the um-
brella of peace; and Major-General Charles
Rosenthal was there, once more leading an
army. There were blind Diggers and maimed
Diggers, and pictorial pipers and stirring
brass bands. There were butchers and
bakers, there were policemen; men from
Woolloomooloo and men from Darling Point.
Names of historic battalions rose mur-
murous along the line of spectators as
the men swung along the streets that were
avenues of sodden flags at half-mast. And
so to the Cenotaph, in each mind a vivid
picture of the particular hell that heroism
had turned into a blazing glory in the history
of his land. Lone Pine, Pozieres, Villers-
Bret.! The ranks swelled, and the cobbers
they had lost marched with the men who live.
To the service in the Domain came a vast
congregation. They stretched in their thou-
sands across the grassy ways. They prayed
reverently and listened with a poignant in-
tensity, these mothers, fathers and widows,
to the stirring address of Padre Boyd-Scott.
From soldiers’ children, young girls and
boys to whom the war is but a name,
came a wave of sympathy, and when the
sombre majesty of Chopin’s Funeral March
swept over that great concourse, when the
trumpets gleaming in the sun sounded the
Last Post and the Reveille, even the young-
est heart had its moment of understanding.
The Cenotaph has never borne a nobler
mass of blooms than on this last Anzac Day.
In gold and orange, violet and crimson, they
blazed the glory of the heroic ; in tender white
they told the hope of meeting beyond this
earth ; in pink they whispered, maybe, of loves
begun and ended 16 years ago. The wreath
from Sir lan Hamilton was impressive, its
laurel a fitting tribute to our evergreen
memories.
In the afternoon the soldiers’ mothers
gathered for their particular service at the
Gates of Remembrance at Woolloomooloo.
These gates, through which the leaf-brown
armies had passed to be swallowed up by
the transports, were heaped with flowers.
Mothers wearing the medals of sons who had
never returned from the fields of France
were many. No blare of brass or stirring
trumpet notes blew out over this company.
The hymns were sung to the accompaniment
of two violins.
The visit to the Cenotaph before dawn is
always one of the most touching of the Anzac
ceremonies. Every year the Australian
League of Ex-Service Clubs arranges this
pilgrimage to commemorate the hour of the
Landing. On Saturday over 1000 men and
women greeted their dead in that wan hour,
and Sir Philip Game placed the League's
wreath upon the Cenotaph. Dr. Gillon, of
Scots’ Church, said the prayers, and soldiers
of the old battalions formed a guard of
honor around the memorial.
Leonore Morisset, the only daughter of
Major C. V. Morisset, of Norfolk Island,
became Mrs. Geoffrey Morgan Jones at All
Saints’, Woollahra, last week. Ernest Milford
squired the bride in the absence of her
father, and she wore a smartly-swathed little
velvet toque in beige tones' to match her
mittens and her lace frock, made with a tight
bodice and a full skirt. ’Groom’s sister
Charley was pictorial in an orange and
brown outfit. Booberoi, the Double Bay
home of the Barclay Haleys, was thrown
wide for the party which followed the vows.
Pliyl and Cherry Haley helped their mother
in entertaining. Quirindi is the future
address of the Geoffrey Morgan Jones couple.
May Daly and Charles Sylber, the com-
edian with “Laughing Eyes,” gave their wed-
ding party (the ceremony had taken place
at 6.30 in Christ Church, St. Laurence,
George-street) on the stage of the St. James.
The stage was set for the flutter with
one immense cake that rose in tiers (not
Athol Tiers) nearly to a marriage bell, all
hung with orange blossom. There were out-
size bottles of champagne amid the decora-
tions, and a line of chorus girls dressed as
assistant ’maids in spreading white organdy
frocks and immense white organdy hats lined
in with black. Another- line of assistant
assistant ’maids wore knutty black and white
satin ballet outfits, the feminine touch being
furnished by enormous and pendulous cuffs
of _ frilled organdy which fell from their
wrists anklewards. They also wore som-
brero-like black and white hats, and they
formed a striking background for the bride’s
flowing white satin and sherbet-like froth of
pink and white tulle veil.
Janette Gilmore, in a cobwebby parchment
lace frock and a lace Dutch bonnet over
her gold curls, was bridesmaid in chief. Two
noticeable features of the assistant ’maids
were the beauty of their bouquets—pink,
gold, red and white, they spilled in vari-
colored chains down the rustling white frocks
—and the scarcity of petticoats. Long legs
in _ pink tights blushed in the fierce
Ivleig lights through the diaphanous stuff.
When the ceremonial business was over
the whole audience, who had watched
every detail with the keenest appreciation,
joined in telling the night that the pair were
jolly good fellows. Somebody introduced
the house to the bride’s mother, an invalid
who had not been out for four years, and
who sat up in one of the boxes and looked
down on the animated scene. Jim Gerald
gave the bride away, and Athol Tier was
best man. There was a movie made of the
whole, streamers linked the circle and the
stalls to the stage, and then the ’maids got
busy trying to hand around cake and wine
to everybody in the theatre.
The fame of Mrs. P. J. Leahy, secretary
of the Mosman Red Cross, is widespread,
and to the welcome-home given in her honor
by her own branch of the organisation came
more than 250 women. The party was
spread in the Mosman Town Hall, where
small tables like sociable mushrooms gleamed
at close intervals; around these the
ladies (only one man sampled the cheesio,
and he was Mayor Buckle) sat at attention
while Gladys Owen spoke on behalf
of the disabled and the T.B. soldier.
Her clear-cut voice reached not only
the ears but the hearts of her list-
eners, so that every woman who -could
dropped a cheque into the funds or joined up
as a member. Mrs. Leahy, who unleashed
her recently-acquired M.8.E., gleaming-
purple and silver for any interested guest
to gaze on, made a speech full of the charm
of her recent travels. England most of all
seemed to capture her fancy, so that her
memory of it might be said to breathe
through lavender and potpourri.
This is _ Mrs. Claude Kingston, wife of
J. C. Williamson’s popular concert manager,
who has been visiting Sydney for the Hislop
season. Mrs. Kingston is a musician in her
own right, and
does a great
deal of con-
cert work in
Melbourne un-
der the name
of Mrs. Ella
K i n gston,
Three years or
so ago she
appeared as
soprano to
Joseph Hi s-
lop’s tenor in
a production
of “The Mes-
siah.” How-
ever, perhaps
the lady’s
chief claim to
distinction is
that she intro-
duced to Aus-
tralia a high-
ly successful
system of
teaching music to children in the kinder-
garten stage. So popular has this become
that her time is now taken up in teaching
teachers. Husband Claude is a talented
organist, and has often supplied appropriate
pipe thunder to Clara Butt’s clarion tones.
The listener to Gladys Owen the other day
could not but be struck by the thought of
this young woman’s many gifts. Gladys is an
artist of decided talent, a writer whose fluent
pen can capture that most evanescent quality
atmosphere, and a public speaker who quite
often reaches the heights of oratory. Of
course a gifted mother (she did much to
found the Red Cross) and a brilliant father
—Justice Owen —deserve some of the credit.
The Macquarie Book Club had two out-
standing women among its visitors last
week —the just-returned Dr. Grace Boelke
and Miss I. M. Foster, well known in S.
Australian literary circles. Miss Foster is
an authority on the works of Alice Meyneil,
and gave a lecture to prove it at the cosy
club in Macquarie-street last Friday night.
Artist Nevill Smith dropped into Sydney
from Arizona and Mexico last week by way
of Maoriland, where he had been visiting
his mother, whp at SO-odd still plays Debussy
and Chopin. Nevill immediately hung the
walls of the Argosy Gallery with water-color
scenes of desert and canyon. Lady Game
opened the show last Monday and an inter-
ested visitor was Mexican Consul Zalapa.
The Aztec Pyramid to the Sun is the most
interesting, and the picture showing the
Japanese fishing-fleet at Hilo the most deco-
rative, of Mr. Smith’s little show. Butte
McDowell, Diamond Head, and The Bonnet,
a glimpse of the Waimea Canyon, are other
out-of-the-wtiy scenes captured by a much-
travelled brush.
Lonsdale’s “Canaries Sometimes Sing”
found the best seats of the Prince Edward
upholstered with Sydney’s well-dressed
social entities. One wonders if these people
ever have to pay to view a talkie, or if
they are like the millionaire who said the
best of being a millionaire was that you
could get most things for nothing. The
E. J. Carrolls, who, of course, are the big
chiefs of P.E., were in the audience, she
wearing a black velvet cloak beset with
ermine; tenor Hislop’s daughter May was
a fluff of pink tulle, and the blonde Mrs.
Dan Carroll was effective in green and
black. Jessie Tait, in almond-green lace, and
Morna MacCormick, in orange chiffons, were
among the charming.
Miss M. M. Simpson, who stood as the
non-party candidate in the Annandalc by-
election polled well, and would have
polled better if more of the Blackfriars
district had gone into the electorate. Miss
Simpson, who until a few months ago was
attached to the Education Department, was
the originator
of the health
scheme at
Black friars
Infant De-
nt o n s t ration
School, and all
the mothers
and fathers
therea bouts
know what
wonders it has
done for the
kiddies by
its open-air
classes, morn-
ing sunlight,
and properly
balanced
lunches. This
method is no
longer confined
to Blackfriars,
for Miss Simp-
son was the
authority to whom the various State Gov-
ernments sent representative teachers for
instruction. The women inspectors of infant
schools in South Australia and Tasmania
were both trained in the system she had
evolved from her investigations of the Mon-
tessori and U.S.A. methods of modern
kindergarten. Miss Simpson’s platform em-
bodied, among other good things, plenty of
playgrounds for small children who live in
crowded areas. Photo from Grace Bros.’
studio.
There could be no better argument for
the Wear More Wool campaign than Marie
Rosenfeld’s legs in “Hindle Wakes.” Marie
wears thick grey woollen stockings as the
mill-girl, Fanny Hawthorn, with a success
that is positively breath-taking. The Inde-
pendent Theatre group re-introduced Stanley
Houghton’s play to Sydney last Saturday,
and the production was among the best of
its efforts. Erna Living’s millinery struck
a cheerful note, but Erna herself, as the
baffled aspiring mother, was a dramatic figure.
Producer Doris Fitton, who blew rosy as a
cloud in undepressed tulle on to the stage, of
the Savoy to say a few words on the opening
night, is to be congratulated on netting into
her club so many tall young men with good
voices. Hawdon Wilson and Arthur Rear-
don are two fine catches.
As far back as 1916 an ardent band of
women clerks formed themselves into the
(Clerical Women War Workers. Any organ-
isation wanting circulars or letters sent out
in a hurry could call on the girls (all the
members were girls in 1916) to help after
office hours. War passed, but the Cleri-
cal Women War Workers found much
to do helping the sick and disabled Digger.
They subscribed funds and got up little enter-
tainments on his behalf. The moving spirit
in this group of devoted women was Miss
I. R. Huxley. Hundreds of distressed Dig-
gers and their families knew her office in
the city, and knew that there was always a
welcome and sympathetic help for them there.
But the office will know Miss Huxley no
more; serious eye trouble has obliged her to
leave it. The Clerical Women War Workers
wish to give her a testimonial benefit. This
will take the form of a performance of “The
Alarm Clock” by The Vagabonds on May
14 at the Savoy.
Rowe-street, of the gay little shops, is
more attractive than ever just now with the
display in the windows of the Arts and
Crafts Society. In Angel-place, Jessie New-
man’s wares beckon the passer-by, and here,
in addition to the usual pottery, hand-painted
china and brasses, can be seen exquisite
embroideries and the softest of knitted baby-
wear.
The closing of the Government Savings
Bank was not without its humorous touches.
The. manager of a suburban branch was com-
plaining a month or so ago about the way
the women in his district were spreading
the virus of no-confidence. “Only the other
afternoon,” he said, “one of my depositors
came in and told me she wanted to withdraw
all her money, £500.” I said, “All right,
Mrs. Jones—shall I give you a cheque r
“Oh, no,” she said, “I want the cash, because
you know as, well as I do> you won’t be open
to-morrow.” “To-morrow isn’t a bank holi-
day,” I said. “No.” she replied with mean-
ing, “but Mrs. Smith, Mrs. Fixitt Smith,
told me to get out all my money to-day
while there was time. She told me herself
she had drawn every penny out of her own
account yesterday.” “I looked op Mrs.
Fixitt Smith’s account,” concluded the
manager, “and found she had certainly drawn
out every penny. She had had £1 2s. lOd.
to her credit.”
The unemployed girl clerk knows what, a
friend in need the Typists’ Association is.
Wherever possible the out-of-work lass is
helped by her sisters who. are still in
jobs. A timely Christmas gift of 30 shil-
lings each went to about 40 girls from the
association funds. Harry Thomas, one of
Sydney’s popular elocutionists, is giving a
dramatic recital on Thursday, the 30th, at
St. James’s Hall to help the treasury over
the winter demands. Miss. T. E. Shoobert
is the organiser, Mrs. C. Lindsay the presi-
dent, and Mrs. C. A. Moore the secretary
of the money-raiser.
In David Jones’s annexe last week knight
Kelso King opened a show of portraits and
landscapes by artist W. L. Calderwood. The
visiting Scot has a brush for eyes, and
this is very noticeable in the pictures of
his grandson, of Joan Badgery of Scone, and
Mrs. Calderwood. The opening was by way
of being a society flutter, and Mrs. Calder-
wood hostessed a subsequent tea party in
black lace, while Mrs. Pullen helped the good
work in black and green frocking under a
large hat of black velvet.
From Brisbane :—•
There was a bumper first-night house for “Sons
o’ Guns” at His Majesty’s, including the Governor
and Lady Goodwin and the C.J. and his wife. The
drop scene of Sydney Harbor received a cheer; it was
a change not to have the beginning in America.
“The Love Race” is the next production, a musical
comedy which is to be tried on Brisbane.
The Allan Wilkies have left for the north; they are
to play in Bundaberg and Townsville.
Lady Goodwin received the lady members of the
Rotary conference in the grounds at Government
House, which just now are gay with autumn blooms.
A band played and the red verbena glowed accompani-
ment ; inside the house! the deckings were roses and
chrysanthemums. Lady Goodwin, Sir John and
Dorothy Hawthorn received at the top lawn. Captain
Innes Sherston commanded the Girl Guides, who lent
a helping hand. Lady Goodwin wore rose beige with
a hat of baku in beige and rose and fitch furs ; the
Mayoress was in sapphire blue. In the evening there
was an at-home in the City Hall, hosted by President
P. J. Allen and Mrs. Allen, she in black Brussels
lace worn with a string of jade.
At the Chapel of the Holy Innocents, St. John's
Cathedral, Edward Golden, Yeulba, was married to
Constance V. Drake, Clayfield. The bride was in
ocean blue with a hat ,to match, brightened with
chenille red. Her fathr, gave her away and Mrs.
A. 11. Conrad was matron of honor in magnolia
satin beautA Zinnias and marigolds decorated
Atcherley for the reception, Mrs. E. A. Thelander,
the bride’s sister, receiving.
St. John’s Kirk, Dalby, saw the wedding of John
H. Carmichael to Helen Isabel Elliot-Walcott.
The bride was given away by her uncle, George
Campbell. She wore shell-pink satin and wedding
veil of Brussels lace. Mrs. H. E. Devine was matron
of honor, in cream moire, patterned in gold and pink
roses. Bonnie Walcott ’maided in similar frocking.
The reception was in the parish hall, and the future
nest is at Charleville.
In St. John’s Cathedral James Overell took to
wife Mollie, only daughter of the S. G. Goulds,
Hamilton. The bride, who was given away by her
father, wore a figured red, green and orange crepe de
Chine on a black ground, with a three-quarter coat
of black marocain and velours toque. Jean Blane
’maided in navy. Toma, Clayfield, the home of the
G. Prentices, saw the feasting, Mr. and Mrs. Gould
receiving.
White and gold chrysanthemums and pink cosmos
adorned . St. Andrew’s, Indooroopilly, for Charles
Eden’s marriage to Hal L’Estrange. The bride, who
was handed over by brother Guy, was in ivory satin
over pale pink, Limerick-lace veil and train. Little
Mary Ross and Jean Chandler, her cousins, ’maided
in forget-me-not blue. The pages, in white sailor
suits, were Colin Chandler and Paul Mort.


mi
is;
M
i
•v;
m
Seventy-five per cent, of the World’s
Motor Cars are equipped with
fix ibe
The Long Life Battery
FOR CARS, RADIO .„<! HOME LIGHTING
N.S.W.—Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd.;, Hunt and Com-
monwealth Streets, Sydney. Vic. and Riverina.—A. P. Sutherland, Queen’s
Bridge, South Melbourne. Queensland.—Exide Battery Service (Q.), Ltd.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane; Sturt Street, Townsville. South Australia and
Broken Hill. —Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 97 Currie Street, Adelaide. West-
H . ralia.—M. J. Bateman, Ltd., Magneto House, Milligan Street, Perth. Tas-
M * mania.—Medhurst and Sons, Collins Street, Hobart.
Obtainable from your Local Garage, Car Dealer or Exide Service Station.
There’s Good Reading
in Next Issue
of
9Xo
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
MAY 5 NUMBER
ON SALE ON SATURDAY, MAY 2.
SERIALS
Mary Kelaher’s “Security" has
reached a tense situation.
In Next Issue begins “In Pursuit of
Patrick,” by Vera Dwyer a
jolly tale of misunderstandings
and “chasings.”
SHORT STORY:
“Faint Heart Ne’er Won" by
a new writer, M. J. Swan. How
Pam Captured Jim from Vida.
SPECIAL ARTICLES:
Countess Castiglione, the woman
who worshipped herself.
Enter the Strong, Silent Woman!
A delightful satire by Dulcie
Deamer.
That Winter Bath. A doctor's warn-
ing against excesses.
Ancient Jewish Needlework. An
embroidery motif from Hebrew
history. (
How to Win at Bridge. Prudent
and risky play compared.
HEALTH AND MOTHER-
CRAFT:
Woollies for the Winter. Advice
on children’s wear.
Beauty’s Three Essentials, by Janine
Jouet.
FOR THE CRAFTSWOMAN:
A Knitted Cardigan for School
Wear.
Crocheting a Magyar Coatee.
The Mitre Doyley, a simple design.
THE KITCHEN AND
PANTRY:
Make Your Own Flavorings!
Sweet-Potato Recipes.
Soursap as a “Sweet.
The Baltimore Cakes.
Bulk Buying of Fruit.
GARDENING HELP:
May in the Vegetable Patch.
Best Edgings for Beds.
Loofahs Grown in Sydney.
THE WEEK’S FREE
PATTERN:
A Bed-jacket in a Wattle Design.
GENERAL HINTS:
Foot-washing Blankets.
Treatment for Worms in Poultry.
Saving a “Sticky” Suite.
THE BANK OF
ADELAIDE
SIXTY-FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT
of the Directors to the Shareholders.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of Share-
holders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 30th March, 1931, and statements
of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 30th
March, 1931 (including the balance brought forward
from the previous year, £49,482/2/-), amounts to . . £141,295 4 2
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 8 per
cent, per annum was paid in November last . . . . 50,000 0 0
Leaving available .. .. •• •• •• £91,295 4 2
Out of which the Directors have declared a dividend for
the half-year ended 30th March, 1931, at the rate of
6 per cent, per annum payable after the General
Meeting on 13th May, 1931 . . . . . • • • 3 7,500 0 0
Leaving a balance to carry forward of . . . . £53,795 4 2
The Directors Consider it prudent to conserve the Bank’s resources, and have
declared a dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum- Shareholders will note
that with the Interim Dividend paid in November last at the rate of 8 per cent,
per annum the net return for the 12 months under review is 7 per cent.
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office of the Company,
81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 13th May, 1931, at 12 o’clock
noon, at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect one Director in place
of Mr. Charles R. J. Glover, who retires in accordance with the Articles of Associa-
tion, but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
The Shareholders will be asked to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and fix
their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
S. G. MARTIN, Secretary.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
BALANCE SHEET, 30th March, 1931.
LIABILITIES.
Capital paid up £1,250,000 0 0
Reserve fund . . 1,000,000 0 0
Profit and Loss. . 91,295 4 2
-£2,341,295 4 2
Notes in circulation. . .. 6;661 0 0
Bills in circulation and other
liabilities .. .. •• • •* 42,771 1 5
Balances due to other banks .. 235,713 11 6
Deposits .. •• •• 5,762,326 6 0
Interest accrued on fixed deposits
and rebates on Bills discounted.. 64,937 17 9
£8,453,705 0. 10
Contingent Liabilities consisting of
Letters of Credit, etc. . . . • £324,440 14 10
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion
and Cash
Australian Notes
and Cash with
Commonwealth
Bank of Aus-
tralia
Government
Securities
Co m m onwealth
Government
Treasury Bills
Municipal Deben-
tures. .
Money at Short
Call
Balances due
from other Banks
Notes of other
Banks..
Bills Receivable
in London and
Remittances in
Transitu
£45,874 6 11
1,038,513 9 9
602,233 13 5
174,136 19 9
2,150 0 0
170,000 0 0
192,710 6 1
1,602 0 0
426,573 13 10
£2,653,794
Bank Premises and Furniture .. 345,067
Bills Receivable in Australia, Bills
Discounted, and all other Advances 5,454,843
9 9
8 3
2 10
£8,453,705 0 10
Liabilities of Customers on Letters
of Credit, etc., as per Contra. . £324,440 14 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Year from 31st March, 1930, to 30th March, 1931.
To Reesrve Fund as
below .. •• £15,000 0
~ Dividend in May,
1930 .. • • 50,000 0
„ Dividend in Novem-
ber, 1930 . . .. 50,000 0
„ Balance 30th March, 1931
0
0
0
-£115,000 0 0
91,295 4 2
£206,295 4 2
By Balance 31st March, 1930
„ Net Profit, including Recoveries
and after making provision for Bad
and Doubtful Debts, Interest
accrued on Fixed Deposits, and
Rebate on Bills Discounted and
Deducting Expenses at Head Office
and 60 Branches, including
Salaries, Rents, etc.
£114,482 2 0
91,813 2 2
£206,295 4 2
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date
..£1,000,00 0 0
£1,000,000 0 0
By Balance 31st March, 1930 .£985,000 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss,
May, 1930 .. . . . ■ 15,000 0 0
£1,000,000 0 0
W. J. MASSON, General Manager. S. G. MARTIN, Secretary.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the Books and Accounts of The
Bank of Adelaide for the yea*- ended 30th March, 1931, and certify that it is a
correct abstract of the same. We have counted the cash and examinied the Bills
and Government and Municipal Securities oh hand at the Head Office. The Assets
and Liabilities at the Branches other than London have been taken on the Certifi-
cates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, arid those of
the London Branch, as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 20th April, 1931.
G. R. ANNELLS (_
K. W. NEILL 5
Auditors
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).


Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE DUCHESS OF DANTZIC.
CRITERION:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
AND
TRIAL BY JURY,
Commencing May 2.
COMEDY THEATRE: LOYALTIES,
With FRANK HARVEY and brilliant company.
Commencing May 2.
VISITORS WELCOMED TO
LONDON’S FOUR MOST
UP-TO-DATE RESIDENTIAL
HOTELS.
Close to Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens;
Within 3 minutes of Tube; Open to Non-
Residents and Daily Terms as required; No noise
though Central; Garage; Night Porters; All bed-
rooms have hot and cold water, gas fires;
Exchange Telephones; Central Heating.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
Accommodation 120 guests. Special Terms for
Winter Residence.
Winter Garden; Palm Court; Louis Seize
Drawing-room and Lounge; Tudor Smoke and
Billiard Rooms; Special Dinner Dances.
Wedding Receptions and At-homes a Specialty.
Single Rooms from 4 Guineas. Double from
Guineas. Bed and Breakfast from 9s. 6d.
Telephone, Park 9901.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL.
66-69 LANCASTER GATE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
Established over 20 years. New extensions of
60 rooms now ready. This hotel has been artis-
tically decorated throughout and offers unusually
spacious and attractive reception rooms.
Terms from 4 Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 9121.
PARK ROYAL HOTEL.
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
This charming hotel offers terms from 3 Guineas
per week. First-class reception-rooms and cuisine.
Inspection invited. Accommodation for 90 guests.
Delightful home for residents.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 9712.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL.
29-31 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK. W. 2.
Recently acquired, newly decorated and refur-
nished ; delightful reception-rooms. Refinement
guaranteed, with young and cheerful society.
Terms from 3 Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 8 <122.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Ten Rooms
P[?] C[?] [?] P[?]
B[?]
[?]
Usually the weather is dull and damp for
Anzac Day, but this year sunshine flooded
the' city with warmth, and the thousands who
waited in the streets to watch 20,000 Diggers
march past enjoyed comfort. The crowds com-
menced to gather at breakfast-time, and the
earliest comers took up vantage points behind
the barriers. The temporary cenotaph was
placed, as formerly, in front of Parliament
House, and wreaths commenced to pile upon
it on Friday afternoon. The first to arrive
with their offerings were groups of school-
girls and -boys, the Legacy Club having
arranged a children’s commemoration service
at the cenotaph on the eve of the great day—
a service which ended with the playing of the
Last Post by buglers from school bands. The
march followed the usual order, first coming
cars carrying disabled and sick soldiers from
military hospitals and convalescent homes,
then a company of Red-cross nurses, a de-
tachment from the R.A.N., a body of blind
men and then the various divisions of A.I.F.
Also represented were the Maoi-ilanders,
Canadians and men of the Imperial Army.
The King’s colors fluttered bravely in the
sunlight, reflected also from the bayonets of
the guard presenting arms. General Monash,
who led the Diggers, and some of the other
leaders were mounted. Lord Somers, who
later took the salute, walked down Spring-
street to meet the procession and fell into- step
for a space. His Ex. was in mufti. Archbishop
Head was also in the lines, having been a
chaplain with the Imperial Forces. Many
a little child tramped along the route with
a male relative, sporting father’s or brother’s
war medals. One small boy joined the ranks
arrayed as a cowboy.
All day the Shrine of Remembrance, under
construction and not likely to be completed
till next year, was inspected by thousands.
It rises silvery-grey and white upon the
skyline of the Domain and is visible from
many parts of the city. Begun in June, 1928,
it will cost close on a quarter of a million,
all, save for a £50,000 Government sub-
sidy, being privately subscribed. The chil-
dren in the schools provided £16,000, which
is being used for some special decorative
work.
The charity meeting at Moonqe Valley, a
benefit for the District Nursing Society and
the Disabled Soldiers’ Council, was favored
by ideal weather, and the course, with its
trees turning golden, its roses in bloom and
its lawns showing their richest green, looked
very pretty. There was a fair-sized crowd.
Many friends of Mrs. Russell Jackson
farewelled her on the eve of her departure
for London at Rosen-Aue, Queen’s-road, the
residence of Mrs. L. Just. This house, one
of the old stone mansions, was originally
the home of Madam Weigel of dress-pattern
fame. The rooms used for the party, which
was engineered by Mrs. F. D. Long, Mabel
Brennan and Dr. J. E. Nihill, were decked
with dahlias and crimson-vine leaves.
Guests included painter Bill Mclnnes
and his wife, Louis McCubbin, Harry
McClelland and his sister Nan. Mrs.
Russell Jackson, who was in black velvet
with a girdle of coral beads, was accom-
panied by her little daughter and her
mother Mrs. A. Boyes, the last-named in
grey lace and georgette. Mrs. Edward Dyson,
wearing black lace, brought her schoolgirl
daughter June, in frilled frock of flame tint.
Mrs. D. McPherson came with her grown-
up daughter Rosalind. The Weedon lady
sported petunia-pink with some sparkle.
Mrs. George Brooke, the F. J. Raes and
pianist Edward Cahill were others in the
throng. Tenor Walter Kirby, Madame Kroef,
Jean Lewis and Terence Crisp entertained
the gathering with music and recitations, and
there was dancing.
Toorak College of Frankston, which is
picturesquely situated amid sea and bush,
mingled a fair with its Governors’ Day
sports. The weather was sunny and a full
complement of relatives and friends of the
scholars attended. Mrs. H. Melville, of the
Old Collegians’ Association, opened the
bazaar part of the proceedings, proceeds of
which went towards the erection of a sports
pavilion and improving the playing grounds.
There were stalls filled with fancy goods,
flowers, sweets and cakes, and a tennis tour-
nament, golf and other sporting competitions
were side-lines. Mary Bright collected coin
by conducting pony rides.
Mrs. Harry Emmerton’s home, Raveloe,
was the scene of a card party engineered by
her daughter, Mrs. Norman Brookes, to get
funds for the Institute of Almoners. Mrs.
Brookes, who wore satin of old ivory hue,
was helped by several enthusiasts. Mrs.
Emmerton, in black velvet allied to opals,
provided supper for the bridge players.
Marie de Bavay, whose pink frock softly
radiated with silver tracery, was among the
lieutenants, who also included Mrs. G. D.
Bowcher, hon. sec. of the institute, the Best
lady and her daughter Helene, Cynthia
Brookes, Mary Drake-Brockman and Vera
de Bavay. Purple, mauve and pink irises
and maple foliage decked the ballroom and
supper tables.
A garden party to obtain funds for the
Women’s Citizens’ movement was held at
Mrs. Warren Kerr’s residence the other
day. Croquet was played and tea was served
in the shade of tall trees. Indoors Mary
Mack, Hilda Whalley and Sidney Powell
sang and Elizabeth Campbell and ’cellist
Sheila Macfie made instrumental music.
At the Wattle tearooms there was a bridge
party organised by the Eye and Ear Hos-
pital auxiliary, about 80 tables being re-
served. Bazaar stalls swelled the returns.
For the marriage of Thelma, daughter of
the John Dixon couple, of Armadale, and
George, son of Mr. and Mrs. George Griffith,
of St. Kilda-road, the bride’s girl friends
trimmed Christ Church, South Yarra, with
greenery and white and yellow blossoms to
match the dressing of the wedding party.
The bride’s cloth of silver gown was
fashioned with a tight-fitting bodice and
a voluminous skirt that meandered into a
train. From a coronet of orange-buds and
rhinestones trailed a veil of primrose tulle,
and she held a sheaf bouquet. The ’maids,
Joyce Dixon, Thora Heymanson and Gwen
Johnston, wore deep yellow velvet with large
drooping hats, and they carried muff-embel-
lished with orchids. Mrs. Alan Roark,
matron of honor, wore golden-hued crepe
satin topped by a black velvet toque. The
after-rejoicings took place at Menzies’.
A knot-tying of the same day was that of
Abigail, daughter of Mrs. D. B. Dynou, of
Malvern, and Eugene, second son of the
Thomas N. Nelsons, of Carmel, Bendigo.
Deep ivory satin that rippled over the car-
peted aisle of St. Patrick’s Cathedral, topped
with some beautiful old Limerick lace, was
the attire of the leading lady. A tulle muff
on which pink and white roses rested was
carried. Major-General Dodd’s daughter
Mabelle and Mary Dynon bridesmaided in
Patou pink chiffon with hats of russet brown.
The afternoon-tea kettle was boiled at
Menzies’.
The Liedertafel paid its tribute to Melba’s
memory by including Sullivan’s “The Long
Day Closes” in its programme at the Town
Hall. The soloists of the concert, conducted
by Sutton Crow, were Muriel Cheek, Wil-
liam Cadzow, Agnes Scott and violinist
Hermia Barton.
The Office Flapper writes: Well, I went
to see Miss Mercedes Gleitze lower her Adel-
aide record of 44 hours’ immersion in water
and believe me, I was stirred. It was at
the Brunswick City Baths. There she was,
paddling about with her eyes closed and bits
of her skin floating off and her veins full of
33J pints of the toxins of fatigue, as a medi-
cal friend explained, and people all standing
around with their faces solemn with awe
and talking in whispers as if they were in
a church, and her husband walking about
looking as proud and masculine as a man
could look in such circumstances; and there
was a civil ambulance there and a doctor
and a lot of attendants all imbued with the
importance of the event and, believe me, it
made me proud of my sex. And then, when
the 44% hours were up, eyerybody broke into
a loud cheer and a tear of happiness rolled
out of the corner of Miss Gleitze’s eye and
three men went down into the water and
lifted the poor girl out just as gently and
reverentially as if she were dead. And when
Miss Gleitze’s head rolled on one side and
she fell asleep with a proud smile on her
lips, well, a lump rose in my throat. And
then they carefully put her on a stretcher
and took her to the dressing-room. Then
they took her bathing-costume off —oh, so
carefully, because they didn’t want to take
the rest of the skin off too. And then they
wrapped her up in blankets and an ambu-
lance took her off and the last I saw of her
was her poor skinned feet disappearing into
the vehicle and I’m not ashamed to say, I
wept with pride and joy. I mean, I have
always believed in the equality of the sexes,
and now that Miss Gleitze has shown that
she can stay in the sort of H2O supplied in
a municipal baths for 3J hours short of 2
days without going into complete solution
the men can have their records of eight days
of continuous midget golf, two months sit-
ting on a pole and 93 oysters and 17 bottles
of stout at a single sitting. I mean, Rule
Britannia is feminine after all.
John MacF'arland, Chancellor of our Uni.,
pictured here by Lafayette, celebrated his
80th birthday
the other day.
Prof. Osborne
and his wife,
D r. E t h e 1
Osborne, gave
a party in his
honor, and the
host, General
Monash and
others made
congratulatory
speeches. Mr.
Justice Mc-
Arthur, who
was the first
student at
Ormond Col-
lege when the
C h a n c ellor
came to Vic.
as a professor
there 50 years
ago, was one
of the speak-
ers. Prof. Agar, on behalf of the professional
staff, handed over a birthday gift of a cigar-
box of Thuya wood with an edging of ivory.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes’s residence, Win-
wick, was the scene of a bridge party organ-
ised by the South Yarra Auxiliary to help
the Women’s Hospital. Mrs. Fred Krcrouse,
Mrs. L, A. Middows (hon. sec.), Dagmar
Anderson and Mrs. R. N. Corney (hon.
treas.) were the chief movers. There was
a gold hunt in the garden, and Carrie Cairn-
duff, Hermia Barton, Walter Kirby, Roy
Tartakover and John Simons made music.
The birthday of the Bard was celebrated
by the Shakspeare Society with scenes from
the plays. Among the performers was Char-
lotte Hemming, who recited portion of an
act of “Henry VIII.” Prof. Young made
a speech.
Prof. J. A. Gunn, chairman of the Uni.
Extension Board, who has been chosen as a
delegate to the Empire Conference of Uni-
versities in London, is leaving with Mrs.
Gunn by the Esperance Bay.
Mrs. J. S. Fraser, of South Yarra, until
lately president of the C.W.A., was a pas-
senger for London by the Chitral. She is
taking with her samples of the work done
by members of the association.
Coral Brown, one of Frank Clewlow’s dis-
coveries, who latterly has been one of the
Gregan McMahon players appearing in “The
Roof,” has been allotted a part in the Firm’s
production of Galsworthy’s “Loyalties.”
Mary Sewell and Margaret Gilruth are
setting sail for foreign parts by the Nor-
wegian wheat-ship June. Miss Sewell,
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. G. V. Sewell, of
Collins-street, is keen on hunting, and has
trained a couple of her own horses for hunt-
club races and point-to-point events. She
has taken a Uni. course in agriculture and
horticulture, and has done some musical
study. Miss Gilrutk, daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. J. A. Gilruth, is also a graduate. Both
young women intend to combine pleasure and
study while abroad.
Kathleen Goodall, who was the Fairy
Queen in “The House That Jack Built,” is
back in Melbourne. She is cast for a part
in the performance of Galsworthy’s “Loyal-
ties” at the Comedy on Saturday night.
A bridge party organised to aid the Queen
Victoria Hospital by Mrs. E. C. Bridgford,
president, and other members of the Emilie
Robins auxiliary was held in the Rosa
Coffee Lounge and brought in many shekels.
Soprano Ethel Forshaw, a former student
of Mr. O. F. Sobell, of the Uni. Con., is
appearing with the People’s Opera, a Gov-
ernment-subsidised concern, at York House,
Bethnal Green, London, and has sung in
“Aida,” “Trovatore” and “Faust.” Lately
she was engaged as a soloist in Goleridge-
Taylor’s “Hiawatha,” performed by the
Southampton Choral Society.
Lord and Lady Somers are spending their
last couple of months here renewing acquaint-
ance with folk out back and bidding them
farewell. Last week they looked in on
settlers on the Mallee, with whose hardships
they have great sympathy.
The Country Women’s Association has
formed a committee to provide comforts for
several families in the northern part of the
Mallee during the winter.
The dark-
eyed young
miss who
looks out
of this win-
dow is Eva
Ruth Silver-
man, who at
22 is a fully-
fledged lawyer,
the youngest
member of her
sex in this
State to
graduate as
LL.B. She is
a daughter of
the H. J. Sil-
vermans, of
North Fitzroy,
and received
her early edu-
cation at Mel-
bourne High
School. She
plays the violin,
_ Ex-Premier William McPherson, who re-
signed from Vic. Assembly seven months ago
because of ill-health, was sufficiently recov-
ered to drop in at Parliament House to lunch
the other day, and found himself cordially
greeted by old friends of all parties.
Mrs. John Ritchie, of Hamilton, journeyed
to the city from the Western District to wel-
come her mother, Mrs. Everard Browne, and
her sister, Mrs. Dermot Casey, on their
arrival from England.
Archbishop Head’s wife has gone to a pri-
vate hospital for a somewhat serious opera-
tion. The lady has made many friends since
her arrival, and they are pleased to hear that
she is making slow but certain recovery.
From London comes the news that Elaine
de Chair, daughter of the erstwhile Governor
of N. S. Wales, is beginning a course of study
to fit her for a Parliamentary career.
Adelaide’s doings:—
The civic reception to the Chief Scout and Guide
was an enthusiastic affair. It was followed by
morning tea in the Mayoress’s room, where the
visitors were introduced to the city dads and other
prominent citizens. Mrs. C. R. J. Glover wore a
smart tweed tailored ensemble, with a black satin
hat. In the evening Lady Baden-Powell was given
a reception at the Town Hall by the Girl Guide
Association. She was received by the Deputy Guide
Commissioner (Miss Ralph), the Mayoress (State
president) and Mrs. L. L. Hill (Commissioner of
Guides). Addresses by Miss Ralph and Mrs. Glover
were interspersed with instrumental and vocal items;
then came a speech from Lady Baden-Powell, who is
blessed with the saving grace of humor.
The Amateur Turf Club had an excellent attend-
ance at Cheltenham. In the matter of frocking the
fawn-flecked tweed with toque of the same material
was very popular. Mrs. J. H. Morish, wife of the
chairman, who entertained at afternoon tea, was in
a smart black and white flecked coat and skirt and
a black felt hat.
Mrs. C. W. Hayward (treasurer of the Girl Guide
Association) gave a reception in the Freemasons’
Hall, North-terrace, in honor of Lady Baden-Powell.
The stage was massed with maple and dahlias, and
the tea tables in the basement arranged in tones of
pink with roses and phlox. The Girl Guide orchestra
provided items, and Charlotte Grivell sang delight-
ful compositions by Ariel Shearer. Mrs. Hayward
wore a frock of black chiffon velvet, with a black
hat and ermine stole. Lady Baden-Powell was ih
uniform. There were several hundred present.
Mrs. George Bell and her daughter Patricia, of
Melbourne, and Miss Paquita McFarlane, of Rose
Bay, Sydney, are the guests of Mi's. Hugh Bell,
also of Victoria, who has taken a house at Victor
Harbor.
The committee of the recent fair in aid of the
Kuitpo Industrial Colony have every reason to be
pleased with their effort, which netted over £2OO.
The Rev. S. Forsyth, who is keenly interested in the
work, opened the fete, which was held in Mr. F.
W. Bullock’s garden. The produce stall, which was
under the care of Mrs. George Braund and Miss D.
Gilbert, was responsible for over a third of the
takings.
And a Western touch:—
Dame Butt might have been the queen of the
mermaids as she glided on the stage at His
Majesty’s. Silver lame swathed about her tall figure
descended into a narrow train, her silver scarf was
lined with turquoise, and emeralds and diamonds
flashed upon her throat and in her head-dress. Cecily
Murray, looking a wisp in coral pinks beside the
tall diva, opened the programme with three piano
solos. “Abide with Me,” “A Fairy Went A-
Marketing,” “The Hurdy-gurdy Man” and a scrap
of sentiment sung in Japanese about a toy dog were
among Dame Clara’s varied offerings. English folk-
songs figured prominently in Kennerley Rumford’s
groups. The house was crowded and the audience
clamorous for encores.
The little Assembly Hall was packed for the
Repertory Club’s short-play evening. In “The Step-
mother,” Frances Giles in the name-part and Mar-
garet Paton, as Christine the tactful young secretary,
performed with distinction. Cara Cammiileii. as old
Maurya, Dorothy Fallows and Joan Canss had
more difficult work in Synge’s “Riders to the
Sea.” Beatrice Hassen, Gwen Dowson, Norman
Wingrove and Phil Shappere, the last in fancy dress,
spent “An Evening on Dartmoor” in various ways.
Olive Dean’s Mrs. Perkins in “The Grand Cham s
Diamond” was a triumph.
Peggy, second daughter of the late Frank Manfoid
and Mrs. Manford of Peppermint Grove, has promised
to become Mrs. Donald Mackinnon. Her fiancfi hails
from Melbourne.
The W.A. Association of Uni. Women boiled a
billy and spread cups and cakes in the refectory at
Crawley. The party was in honor of 1930’s batch of
girl graduates. President Winnie Hinde spoke a
few words of welcome and stressed the value of
association membership ; vice-president Pauline Riley
and Margaret Battye also had a bit to say.
The Kylie Music Club’s April afternoon was
devoted to Schumann. The warblers were C. L-
Jenkins, Mrs. Higham, whose white frock was plenti-
fully hemstitched, and Phyllis Browning-Turner, in
beige. Elaine Pennifold and Doreen Bray contributed
a brilliant violin and piano sonata; and two excellent
pianists, Nora Coalstad and Ariel Seeligson, per-
formed the difficult Concerto in A minor. Mrs.
W. H. Vincent, wearing a floral chiffon gown, made
members welcome.
J. Eisenberg, a young Jew born in Russia, is
holding an exhibition of pictures in the Tivoli
buildings. After studying in Vienna, he taught at
the only art school in Jerusalem for five years. Most
of his oils depict the hard blue of the Dead Sea
and the arid hills of Palestine. His pastels, especi-
ally heads of old desert sheiks, are particularly
pleasing.
Perth Golf Club associates struck warm weather
for their opening day. There was a competition
which attracted a bevy of members from other clubs,
but the tea party of former years was dispensed
with. Mrs. Millar and Peggy Wood tied for a set of
Copeland coffee-cups.
From the Speck:—
There Was glorious weather for the Newmarket
race meeting at Launceston. So warm was the day,
after a week of Antarctic conditions, that a few
summer frocks made their last appearance.
Brenda, second daughter of Captain and Mrs.
Luddington-Roberson of the Grange, Graystanes
(N.S.W.), and Mervyn, son of the W. Gorringes,
Hobart, announce their engagement. The lady is a
niece of Mrs. Horace Walch, with whom she has been
staying.
Another affianced pair are Jean, only chick of the
O. R. Tinnings, Sandy Bay, and Roy, younger son
of Col. and Mrs. J. E. C. Lord, Derwentwater.
To raise the wind for the gymnasium at Hutchins
School, a parents’ committee engineered a big bridge
party in the Gymnasium Hall. Eighty-one tables
were filled, and a substantial sum was realised.
The Frank Gatenbys are leaving Hobart and
settling at Kinlet, Longford. The associate mem-
bers of the Royal Hobart Golf Club presented Mrs.
Gatenby, an enthusiastic player, with a wallet and
blotter in the cup colors, gold and blue, the work of
Mrs. Payne. The Lewis lady made the presentation,
and a big throng was present.
Molly Fitzgerald, whose marriage to Professor
Taylor, of Tas. University, comes off in May, is busy
stocking up her glory-box. The pair will settle in
Dr. Miller’s flat, in Sandy Bay.
The Hobart Turf Club was lucky in getting a
fine day for its meeting. Elwick was a picture in
its autumn coloring, brilliant flower-beds and green
lawns. The dressing was uniformly wintry, and
there is plenty of variety this season in color and
material; only the hats are somewhat monotonous,
especially as one type of hat will never suit all
faces.
Mrs. Hungerford has returned from a short visit
to her sister, the Cullen lady, in N.S.W.


South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
:: Ascanius . . 10,000 tons, May 8
(Euripides . . 15,000 ~ Sept. 9
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Oct. 5
sCeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 24
:,; Anchises . . 10,000 ~ Nov. 23
*First class only. fFirst and third class,
tCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—CANVAS SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87512. 247 George Street, Sydney.
Bank of Now Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One=third of Queensland's
Entire Population.
¥ ¥ $
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
* * *
Ton can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marlcet , from :
Che Brisbane Conner.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
EOBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
LOVELY
RAROTONGA
PEARL OF THE PACIFIC
To meet present conditions a
short, inexpensive holiday ex-
cursion to Rarotonga has been
arranged by the Union S.S. Co.
Leaving Sydney on June 11 by
the “Makura,” those availing
themselves of this opportunity
will make the return voyage
by the “Maunganui,” reaching
Sydney July 4.
First Class return, £45
Second Class return, £34
(No exchange.)
Full particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
£ -
’"llUpiii
7SBS
mi
%
BURNS PH lIP TOURS
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings from
Australian ports
Return Fare from Sydney,
I £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS. PHILP &rC°L T . D
7 BRIDGE: ST, SYDNELY, AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
d
. .. .. £7,500,000
6,150,000
. .. .. 7,500,000
£21,1 if 0,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents’throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
f
THINK OF
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin ’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Sydney Prince Edward advertises Lons-
dale’s “Canaries Sometimes Sing” as “a sur-
prisingly daring comedy”—a half-truth, It
isn’t comedy, which bears some relation to
life, but farce, which doesn’t. Tom Walls
has an objectionable wife (Cathleen Nesbitt),
and Yvonne Arnaud an asinine husband
(Atliole Stewart). Anne, the wife, and
Ernest, the husband, are tricked into com-
promising themselves, and to make the rift
unbridgeable the conspirators announce that
they have also sinned. The fun consists in
the fooling of the unsympathetic characters—
a device as old as the drama —and in a drunk
scene by the men which, though surprisingly
well done, has no elements of novelty either.
The acting, staging and sound-reproduction
are beyond criticism, and the jokes—well,
as the Prince Edward publicity man asks in
the “Sun,” “Are you broad-minded?”
A few deft touches might have turned
“Scandal Sheet,” which the writer saw at
Melb. State, and which also had a run at
| Sydney Capitol, into a fine satire on the
gutter press. As it stands it is a strikingly
well done melodrama which leaves the scru-
tineer saying to himself, “Can it be so?”
Mark Flint is the editor of a newspaper
which earns dividends by snooping into
the private lives of citizens. Having
beaconed his ruthless path through this vale
of tears with human wreckage, Mark comes
on the biggest work of art of his career—
the ferreting out of the woman in the case
of a banker whom he is exposing for the
public weal. Unfortunately, the woman
turns out to be Mrs. Flint, so Mark makes
a really big story of it by shooting the
banker, returning to his office, dictating the
whole tale to his pop-eyed staff while the
panting presses wait, and then giving him-
self up to the police. If the yarn were told
in the mood of the last episode it would
have been improved. Mark is made editor
of the Sing-Sing “Herald,” where he is as
singleliearted as ever in following out his
creed that “noos is noos.” George Bancroft
makes strong meat of the conscientious
editor.
* v- *
“The Devil to Pay,” which was pre-shown
recently at Sydney State, is in nearly all
respects the best talkie of its class that Aus-
tralia has seen. Frederick Lonsdale wrote it,
which is to say the dialogue Is bright and often
brilliant, and the characterisation sound. Most
of the action takes place in England, and
the director and his advisers have gone to
infinite pains to get the sets just right. This
makes for beauty, amongst other things.
There is a vast msthetic difference between
the simple furniture of the Mayfair houses
shown here and the blatant “period stuff”
seen in most all-American productions.
Epsom on Derby Day is also well and truly
reproduced, though if there is a wood any-
where on the Downs from which picnickers
can see into the boxes this critic doesn't
know it. The sound-registration is miracu-
lous ; every vocal nuance has been picked up
by the machine. The men are English, the
girls American. It certainly doesn’t help
illusion. The explanation is that few Eng-
lish talkie actresses know how to dress. The
device enables the director to present alleged
Englishwomen who look even smarter than
their menfolk, and, as their voices are beauti-
ful and their accents almost indiscernible,
the experiment is a success.
Ronald Colman is the hero —an irrespon-
sible, terrifically attractive spendthrift. In
real life you would call him a hopeless
waster. He is seen in Kenya auctioning the
furniture liis father gave him. When a nice
girl makes a bid for his bed he lets her have
it cheap, observing, as he knocks it down,
that he had always wanted her to sleep in
it. He is the sort of man who can get
away with quips like that. Back in London
lie meets Loretta Young, an heiress who has
just got engaged and suspects she has made
a mistake. The joyous discovery by the
young people that they love each other is
shown with great skill on the part of the
dramatist and naturalism on the part of
the players; and so are the jealousy of
Loretta’s suitor and the fury of her father.
After certain misunderstandings the suitor
turns out to be a fortune-hunter, and Ronald
wins Loretta amidst the rejoicings of his
family and hers.
Colman is the star for ballyhoo purposes,
but the play is so balanced that three or four
other characters stand out ,as prominently.
Miss Young makes a lovely and maidenly
English girl. The always adequate David
Torrence is her father, and Frederick Kerr,
as a cheery old peer who can’t resist the
charm of his prodigal son, is even better
than he was in “Raffles.”
H-
“Hell’s Angels,” the amazing show at Syd-
ney State, was referred to by a slip of the
pen last week as a Paramount, whereas it
is a United Artists film. A second visit
caused the writer to puzzle more than ever
over its manifold mysteries. Here is a picture
that cost £1,000,000, and looks it. Its realism
on the mechanical side is staggering. But
why stop at mechanical realism? There
must be hundreds of young Englishmen cap-
able of acting the parts of the Rutledge
brothers, and at the same time talking like
Oxonians and looking like active-service
flying men. Several appeared in “Young
Woodley.” Yet the director, who is said
to have lavished £50,000 on one of his minor
battle effects without a qualm, didn’t trouble
to look further for his English aviators than
a couple of Hebraic Yanks who, apart from
their rasping accents, are years too old and
pounds too fat. The scenes at Oxford will
get on the nerves of all who know the differ-
ence between the ways of undergrads, there
and in one of America’s emotional Middle
West ’varsities; and the young men don’t
even wear the clothes of the period. Remark-
able carelessness or something is also shown
in the titling. Many of the German officers’
remarks which have little dramatic value are
screened in English. But when something
is said that everybody would like to hear—
the generous tribute to the gallantry of the
British, for example—it isn’t translated, and
the point of view of the enemy speaker is
lost to those who don’t understand German.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
Budding Thespian {mournfully, after an
amateur performance) : “Yes, it’s true I had
the leading part, but the audience evidently
thought I was intended for a supe.”
Stage manager: “Why?”
8.T.: “Because when I appeared they
threw vegetables upon the stage.”
The latest Sydney craze [writes Sappho
Smith] is to daub your auriculars with pink
paint in order to induce a shell-like flush as
if your little earswere perpetually burningwith
A CURIOSITY IN HER OWN COUNTRY.
[3/3/'88.]
the number of people talking about you. It is
very difficult to secure the artistic tint, and
tyros at it often get overwhelmed with con-
fusion, as was instanced in a ’bus the other
day. A girl got in with actually daubed ears,
and a well-meaning old soul leant across to
her and said “I think your ear is bleeding,
Miss.” The manner in which that girl imme-
diately agreed that it was while she care-
fully pocket-handkerchiefed both ears speaks
volumes for her discretion. [l5/2/ 90.]
Mr. C. H. Hayes, of Sydney Exchange,
was, while Mayor of Manly, commissioned by
the N.S.W. Government to buy an attractive
piece of local land as a public park. A
Manly land-jobber, not knowing that Hayes
had in his pocket a Government commission,
and believing that the latter thought of bid-
ding for the block on his own account, said:
“Well, old man, am I to be in it? If so.
I’ll not bid against you.” “Why, certainly,”
said Hayes, “you’ll be in it; I give yon my
word.” The laud was knocked down to
Hayes, to whom his friend: “Well, old man,
we got it cheap. How many of us are in
it?” “Oh,” said Hayes, “We’re all in it.”
“What do you mean?” inquired the would-be
partner. “Why,” replied Hayes, “I mean
that not only is all Manly in it, but every
man, woman and child in N.S.W. has a share
in the transaction. In fact, every living soul
in Australia is in it. I bought it for the
Government as a park.” [B/2/’9o.]
WHAT’S IN A NAME?
“Miss Riley, let me introjuce Mr. Hough-
fleigh—Miss Riley, Mick” —— and he stood
back witli an ambiguous smile that nettled
Miss Riley as she extended her No. 11 hand.
Mr, Houghfleigh was delighted, he was sure.
(He had studied etiquette in books.) Miss
Riley was Irish, and had a full, fetching
figure and an attractive face —for Mick.
Mick was anything. He had been a Dane
for a week when Christina Petersen was en
Said Miss Riley to Mick soon after their
acquaintance, “Hwhat’s your name? Oi
didn’t get it krict, Oi think.”
■ “Houghfleigh-—Mick ; no, Moichael Hough-
fleigh”—with a little irritation and a good
deal of determination.
* t- * *
Mick’s “ould man” had come down for
the splicing, and whisky. Messieurs and
Madame Houghfleigh adjourned to the vestry
for caligraphic purposes. The school had
lived a long distance away from old Mick
when he was young. He took up the pen rather
shakily. Madame was watching him intently.
“Jhust shtand a whon side, Bridgie, till
Oi git some loight.”
Then the letters went down, each printed
with care—MICHAEL HOGSFLESH.
Mrs. Hogsflesh had paled somewhat, and
a queer look was on her face. Outside she
took her lord by the sleeve and headed up
the street.
“Where’re ye goin’?” inquired Mick.
“To the registry!”
“The registry? Whoy?”
“Our name’s goin’ to be Smit’.”
Tom Gayndah.
“All fat women are tremendously con-
ceited,” said a dudelet to me [Sappho Smith]
recently, and I was about to wither him up
on general principles when I stopped to
analyse his generalisation and found he had
spoken wisely. Fat women are vain—inordi-
nately so—and I believe it’s all the fault of
the dressmakers. I was waiting to be “tried
on” the other day when a water-butt lady
sidled through the door and demanded to be
fitted there and then. She didn’t object to
my presence, but proceeded to business at
once, revealing feather-pillow embonpoint
with no perceptible waistline and colossal
peeled-carrot arms guileless of elbows, while
her short, creasy neck was set into her roll-
ing shoulders on the gin-bottle plan. Alto-
getlier, she was the most impossible struc-
ture for which a dressmaker • ever perilled
her reputation, and I quite thought the cos-
tumifere would report herself fully occu-
pied” and bow the bovine fairy out. But
no! She wasn’t going to throw money away
—she just waded in with her scissors and
pins, saying the while: “Ah, you’ll want no
padded sleeves!” and then: “Yours is the
first figure I have fitted which is thoroughly
adapted to the present fashions.” “But I
have no waist!” simpered the victim in a
gratified bass. “The very touch we want —
we have to pad our customers to get the
straight line.” And so on, until the process
was over and the victim swaggered down
stairs, flattered into believing herself what
bad, vulgar little boys call “no end pota-
toes,” while the frockist smiled complacently
and said it was my turn now. After what
THE COLORED-LABOR QUESTION.
AMERICAN SEAMAN NO 1 (negro) : “After de Chinemen, I guess dem blackfellows has
to go off de ships.”
A.S. No 2: “And a very good ding, too. We Europeans ain’t got no show at all,"
[22/2/’89.]
had transpired she was compelled, to refrain
from the administration of “taffy” in my
case.—[ls/2/’9o.]
People who are suffering untold horrors
in city terraces [writes Sappho Smith] will
rejoice and make merry when they hear that
the very latest invention is “portable fresh
air.” Say you are hungry for a whiff of
the ocean. "You buy an ozone ball —some-
thing in the shape of Gobo’s-cttm-Violet-
Varley’s-tear—which you crack in a small
room and are at once breathing the brisk
salt sea. Or, say, you thirst for the per-
fume of meadow hay and clover-bloom —all
you have to do is to buy a hay-ball, and
under its realistic influence you almost mow
down the tallow locks of your eldest daugh-
ter. Fresh-air balls ought to boom in
theatres, trams and everywhere when two
or more are gathered together, but fancy the
hollow look existence will put on to the sailor
who has just smashed a “sixpenny clover”
sitting beside the man from Wayback who
is basking in five shillings’ worth of ozone!
The scenery of the Otira Gorge (M.L.)
ranks among the grandest in the world. Some
one said to Arthur Davis, an old coach-
driver : “You must have heard a great many
remarks upon the scenery in your time. What
have you found to be the general opinion of
English tourists?” Davis meditated for a
few seconds, debating evidently how best to
summarise the various dicta he had heard.
Then he took his pipe from his mouth and
said: “Well the general opinion seems to
be ‘Bai Jove!’ ” The same driver once had
beside him on the box a very nervous man
who for hours plagued him with anxious
inquiries, such as: “Is it very much worse
going down Porter’s Pass than coming up?
Do you think I shall be very frightened?
Would you advise me to go inside?” Davis
bluffly assured him that it
would be “all right.” When
the coach was a few hun-
dred yards from the point
where the descent begins, he
leaned over to his companion
and, speaking in a low voice,
said: “I don’t want you to
say anything for fear of
frightening the other passen-
gers, but I’m just a bit
afraid of my front wheel. I
■want you” (confidentially)
“to keep a close watch on it
and tell me if it shows any
sign of coming loose.” Now,
had there been the least
thing wrong with the wheel
any idea of descending the
pass would have been out of
the question, for the road is
cut out of the side of the
mountain, so that on the
inner side is the face of the
cutting, on the other a pre-
cipitous fall of hundreds of
feet to the bottom of the val-
ley. But the nervous passen-
ger thought only of the com-
mission with which he had
been charged, and kept his
eyes riveted to the suspected
wheel. In about 20 minutes
the coach rattled through a
small river, and a moment
or so afterwards came to a
stop. The passenger gave a
sigh of relief and turned to
the driver : “The wheel seems
all right,” he said; “and
what about the pass’?” So
saying he turned quickly and
gazed back in the direction
from which the coach had
come. Yes, there was the road
like a clay-colored thread
laid along the face of the
mountain. “And we have come down there.'
he asked incredulously. Davis nodded. 1 lie i
he laughed. “I told you it would be all
right,” he said. “But,” said the other %j Witli
only partial comprehension, “the wheel
“Oh, that was all right, too!”
The first noteworthy scene-painter in Mel-
bourne was old Billy Pitt, who won his
spurs at London Lyceum. He painted toi
the Melbourne Olympic, Coppin s Iron lot
and for the Royal. His forte was transfor-
mation scenes. He was the image of fcnaKs-
peafe in a tableau by the Garrick Club when
landlord of the Garrick’s Head, Lourke-
street, where he had a great collection of
theatrical pictures. He carried on in the
same style as Gus Wangenheim in Sydney.
Pitt’s son, another Billy, all in compliment
to the Great Commoner, is much alive. He
designed the Melbourne Princess Theatre,
and is the author of the new and magnificent
comedy theatre which is to spring up on the
corner of Bourke and Russell streets, site of
Tom Nunn’s old Hummums. — [15/2/’90.]
A story is told of Niemann, the landscape
painter. One evening a juvenile son dis-
covered him wandering near the family resi-
dence in a distinctly muzzy condition, the
result of a dining-out or professional re-
union. Anyway, the “governor” was so in-
different to things in general that he didn't
recognise his offspring, who calmly con-
ducted him to their home and rang the bell.
In the meantime, Niemann had expressed
his gratitude to the lad and tipped him a
sovereign ; but when the guide followed him
into the house he protested against the
intrusion. “But I live here. I’m Charley,
explained the youngster. “Are you?’ said
the wise parent. “Then give me back my
sovereign.”
OUR “SERVANTS.”
LORD OF THE MANOR (knocking timidly at the door ):
“Oh, Miss Bridget, please, here is your coffee.
I’ve’lit the fire and laid the table. If you wouldn't
mind getting up presently and cooking the break-
fast — I’m afraid it’s after nine! o’clock.”
THE OLD PIT-SAW.
There’s a melody heard in the lonely bush
Like the haunting strains of a phantom
call,
Or the sweeping song of the water’s rush
As it springs from the edge of a waterfall.
To take a view from the clear uplands
Of the glistening bush, it always seems
A picture drawn by master hands
From mirror’d thoughts of ideal dreams.
I love the song that the pit-saw sings;
Its music, set to a muffled key,
A flood of tender memories brings
Of the roaring days that used to be.
’Tis brawny arms with a glittering blade
That sing the song in the downward blow:
And many the echoes the pit-saw made
In tangled scrubs where the cedars grow;
Where the changing streams of listless winds
Whirl and sweep in a softening sigh,
Whispering love to the swinging vines
That hang from the tops of brushwoods
high;
And the waving trees, and the vines that
cling
From drooping limbs, in the sunlight show
A glitter of pearl on the leaves that sing
A lullaby to the brush below.
But the sawyer’s trade is failing fast,
The sweet scrub’s stillness is rarely
stirred;
Where all was life in the busy past
The transom now is never heard.
The timber-slide with its chain-bound load
The teamster now will seldom haul;
On the winding track that made his road
The undergrowth is thick and tall.
The glorious past! ’Tis a bird that’s flown
On Time’s impetuous wings;
Yet we have lived! The past’s our own!
Who cares what the future brings!
THE SNAG.
LOVE OUTLASTETH ALL.
Could I borrow the laverock's lilting note, _
Or the silvery song from the blackbird’s
throat,
Then would I warble the whole day long,
Telling, in floods of passionate song,
How worlds might tremble, or skies might fall,
But Love, true Love, outlasteth all.
Or, with picturesque words, in phrases neat,
With ringing rhymes, and in sonnets sweet,
Had I the skill of the schoolman’s craft,
My song the murmurous breeze should waft,
And tell to her whom my heart loves best,
How Love outlasteth all the rest.
[1891.]
THE BREAKER.


out of di
oors com
or
there is no hat superior to the
Fayrefield. Just a nice medium-
weight, soft and snug, and at the
same time, distinctive in shape,
color and design.
Make your next new hat a
Fayrefield. The purity of their
Australian materials, and the
quality built in by Australian work-
manship, are the reasons for their
long, life and ability to absorb hard
knocks and roug,h usag,e without
losing their shape and smartness*
..
m*.
Ijou-T kef. s,r .
NU-FELT. 25/-; SUPER-FELT, 30/-; PREMIER-FELT, 35/-.
Jl ‘Always Ahead
Sole eManufa&urers of fhe
“ Mansard” Hat, the new
registered design. The trade
mark and quality are always
stamped in every genuine
Fayrefield Product.
Obtainable in many styles and
shades from all &ood hatters.
SYDNEY r
UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD.,
Surry Hills.
F.l/31
MELBOURNE:
UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD.,
48 Nicholson Street, Abbotsford.
BRISBANE:
JOHN BELL & CO.,
133 Elizabeth Street.
ADELAIDE :
C. G. WARK,
Bower Buildings, Charles Street.
PERTH:
A. H. MILLS,
Central Hay Street*
Cabbag'e for Tea.
ANOTHER LITTLE TALE OF THE ’LOO BY
MARGARET FANE
AND
HILARY LOFTING.
SHORT and misleadingly diffident in
appearance, old Clarry Willis walked
into the shop just as Mary was remind-
ing Marty that he’d better come to his tea.
“Well, Clarry,” Marty said, “how are
things—how’s Sarah?”
“Much the same, Marty.” Old Clarry’s
faded eyes glanced at him. lialf-smiling at
Mary. “Much the same—she don’t change
much. I was thinking, Marty, what about
a bit o’ smoked fish? Might give a relish
to me tea, eh?”
“Yes, it would,” Marty agreed. “And
nourishing, too.”
Clarry looked small and forlorn until he
had the parcel in his hand and was moving
apologetically towards the door. Reaching
it he faded drearily down Brazier-street with
the other evening shadows of the ’Loo.
Marty turned from the empty doorway
to Mary. “Not much of old Clarry Willis
left these days, Mary my dear,” he said.
“You’d think Sarah would give him a better
go than he -seems to be getting.”
Mary glanced sharply at Marty. “Never
once have I seen a smile on her face since
her boy was killed,” she told him.
“You’d think maybe that might soften
her in time,” Marty suggested.
“And why would it? Young Bill was all
she had.”
He flicked a speck of dust from the
counter. “Except old Clarry,” he reminded
her.
Mary almost snorted. “And what’s he?
Why doesn’t he try to make it up to _ her
for the loss of her fine big son, killed in a
silly motor accident these two years and
more?”
“Perhaps he has tried, Mary my dear.”
“He looks it, with his long miserable face
and his foolish by-your-leave ways, makin’
believe he’s a down-trodden man in his
home!” Mary was sharper still now. “Why
couldn’t he laugh and joke with' her once
in a while, so that her face’d have some-
times the shadow of a smile on it?”
“Bill was his son, too, you know,” Marty
said.
Mary quite snorted at that. “The more
reason, then!” she laid it down. “And by
the same token your tea’ll be cold on the
table. Will ye come in now?”
Meantime Clarry Willis had reached his
gate in Triangle-street. As lie opened the
door the odor encompassed him. His shoul-
ders straightened and his eyes snapped, so
that that semblance of diffidence vanished
from him. He walked across the kitchen
without greeting Sarah at the stove, and
took the lid off a saucepan. The full blast
of the odor swept into his face.
“Cabbage for tea again!” he said wearily.
Sarah didn’t look up from the stove.
“Yes,” she said.
“Why?” he demanded.
“Good for you,” came dourly from by the
stove.
“Good for me!” Clarry glared at Sarah’s
back. “Is it good for me to stink the house
out night after night—to make Triangle-
street a”
“All vegetables are good for you,” the dry,
incisive voice informed him, “and some are
better than others. Cabbage is one of them.”
“Who said so?” Clarry threw his hat
on the kitchen table and pitched the smoked
fish into the crown of it. “Who said so?”
he asked again, near to breaking-point.
“Everybody.” the voice told him steadily.
“Are you ready for yer tea?”
“No, I’m not,” he stormed. “Not if it’s
cabbage again, and that’s flat! A man comes
home to liis tea, expecting a bit o’ some-
thing tasty and nourishing, and what he
gets is cabbage! And the neighbors go up
and down the street sniffing and saying ‘Ah,
them old Willises are at their tea. You can
smell ’em. Old Clarry’s going through it
again, with ’is mouth stuffed full o’ cabbage
so lie can’t answer back.’ ” He paused hope-
fully, but Mrs. Clarry was apparently part
of the stove. “That’s a nice thing, that is!
Isn’t it?”
As indifferent as Captain Cook to this
fury, Sarah took the lid off the saucepan,
the odor filling the shocked world. “Good
for you,” she repeated. “Roots are good
for some, and cabbages are good for others.
Take yer hat off the table and hang it up
—how often have I told you about that?
Tea’s ready when you are.”
Impotent rage consuming him, Clarry took
the hat and slipped the fisli into his pocket,
Sarah’s grave, impassive face watching him.
What could you do with a woman like that?
He stamped out into the passage with the
hat and came back without it, flopping into
his chair with the abandon of an injured,
angry man. Sarah handed him his steak
and cabbage in a bored, indifferent silence.
# * * *
Yet the gods were not unmindful of Clarry
Willis, of whom there was so little left these
days, according to Marty. Sarah slipped on
the wash-house threshold, and fell heavily,
twisting her ankle. Nothing serious, Dr.
Sadler assured Clarry, but in a woman of
her age a sprain demanded more care and
seriousness in treatment than a similar acci-
dent to a younger woman. The right foot
must not touch the ground for a week; she
must stay in bed. Nothing to worry about —
no pain, no complications; just bed and
rest, with Clarry to wait on her.
At first Clarry looked down his nose at
this, the more so because Sarah took all
running up and down stairs and careful
waiting on her as just his job. As always,
she was grave and steady; and, as always,
when occasion demanded it she rapped him
over the knuckles in total indifference to
his swift rapping back. The household inter-
changes were all as usual, so far as Clarry
could see, except that he was on his feet
all day long and getting no thanks for if —
getting a lot of pernickety talk and com-
plaints instead. .
This angered him. He sat m the kitchen
at the end of the second day, an example
of life’s injustice to one harmless man.
Brooding here in tired solitude he was fair
game for wandering thoughts. One trans-
fixed him, and he sat up, his eyes gleaming.
That would fix her—teach her to dose him
all his life with cabbage and then growl at
his forgetting the pepper on her tray! That
would do it, and pay back for a lot he’d
put up with and not said enough about. He
chuckled, and went into the passage for his
hat. „ ,
“Going out shopping, he called up the
stairs. “Shan’t be long.”
Without waiting for any answer he walked
up to the greengrocer’s in William-street.
Thereafter an evil descended upon that
corner of the ’Loo. Breakfast, dinner and
tea. the Willises had cabbage. No one in
Triangle-street is too particular to a smell
here and there; but it was felt that this
was a bit thick. The only approving voice
was Dr. Sadler’s, and he lived in Darling-
hurst. The neighbors didn’t. _
Inside the house the situation was just as
intense, if without so much talk about it.
Three times a day Clarry took cabbage up
the stairs to Sarah, pausing at her door to
let the smile fade from his face.
“Good for you,” he told her, “especially
now you’re crook. Everybody knows cab-
bage is good for you.”
“So it is,” she answered steadily, her
grave eyes watching him. “You didn’t forget
the pepper again, did you?”
He pointed to the pepper-pot in silence.
She was cracking hardy, but it was sinking
in.
This was true. Day after day, meal after
meal, he carried cabbage up the stairs, and
gradually her sparse comment became less
until it finally ceased.
“Some like roots.” he tried to enliven her,
“and some like cabbage. I’m all for cab-
bage meself.”
But the last flicker had ultimately gone.
Meal after meal, she ate the cabbage, or
some of it, and said nothing. Nothing at
all. Her accustomed gravity seemed inde-
finably to deepen, perhaps; her accustomed
indifference to Clarry’s opinions and emotions
to become secret and portentous, as it were.
Otherwise she preserved her silent acqui-
escence in the Fate that had decreed this old
Clarry into her life, and ate her cabbage.
Dr. - Sadler came into it at last with his
decree that Sarah’s ankle was well, that she
could get up and carry on as usual. This
she did, coming down to the kitchen with
her hat on and the small suitcase in her
hand.
“Well.” Clarry greeted her heartily, “how
does it feel to be up and about again?” He
saw the suitcase and the hat. “Don’t overdo
it,” he advised. “Are you going shopping
already?”
“No,” she told him. “I’m going to
Annie’s.”
“Good-o. Annie’ll look after you—see you
don’t go running races or the like o’ that.”
He sniggered tentatively, but Sarah’s face
remained unchanged. “I’ll meet you at the
station —what time will you be back?”
“I don’t know. Might be a few days,
might be a week.”
The kitchen floor ebbed from under his feet.
“A few days—a week!” He stared at her.
“Yes.” She took the suitcase off the table
and stood up. The ankle was right. “I
can’t tell how long Annie can have me,”
she added, going into the passage.
Clarry started up to follow her, but at
the door he paused. So that was the way
of it, was it? After he’d been running up
and down the stairs for a week, waiting
on her hand and foot? Right-o!
The sound of the closing front-door settled
it, and he came slowly back to his chair.
What could you do with a woman like
that? Walking out on him the moment
she could put her foot to the ground, galli-
vanting off to her relations and leaving him
to carry on with the cooking and cleaning
up! When he was already slaved to the
bone with it! Riglit-o !
It wasn’t too bad, when you got used to it,
being on your own. At least there was
no one to fuss about your hat and where
you chucked it, and no one to look sideways
if you forgot the pepper. And you could
have what you liked to eat, for another
thing—and cook it at the time it suited
yourself, too. The house was quiet, perhaps,
but then it always teas quiet. Anyhow, you
couldn’t expect to be on your own again
at his time of life without giving up some-
thing.
He’d felt Bill’s sudden death just as much
as she had. Only it had taken him dif-
ferently; that was all. Everybody in the
world didn’t think or feel alike; the world
couldn’t go on if they did. All this step-
ping out and going to Annie’s was His
thought suspended as he remembered the
washing-up. Sarah was particular about
washing-up; it’d never do to leave it over-!
night.
He got up and put his plate, cup anff
saucer in the sink. When they were clean
and on the dresser, he bolted the back door
and the wash-house door and went to bed.
By the fourth day he was used to it and
beginning to enjoy being on his own, he
told himself. Sitting down to tea with a
good appetite—he had grilled both chops,
to-day’s and to-morrow’s —he stirred the tea
in the pot and put the lid on again. A man
could make out pretty well if they left him
to himself, and
The sound of a key in the front-door
lock made him look up. Presently Sarah
stood in the kitchen doorway. He put down
his cup.
“You got back then,” he said.
“Yes.” She put her suitcase on the table
and sat down, glancing at the shining
crockery on the dresser. Clarrv’s uncon-
fessed hope that she would come back dif-
ferent faded and died. The unchanged,
unchangeable, stony face looked at him across
the table, the same old face of the past
two years. “Why didn’t you let me know
when to expect you?” he demanded.
“I didn’t know myself.” Her voieg was
the same old dry voice. “I said it might be
a few days or it might be a week.”
“Oh.” For a moment he looked at her in
silence, lialf-sighing. “Had your tea yet?”
he asked.
“No.”
(Continued on next page.)


THAT RHEUMATISM
RID YOURSELF OF THE TERRIBLE
PAIN THIS SIMPLE, EASY WAY
Rubbing does not always ease pain. Doctors will tell you
that massage or rubbing, wrongly applied, may prove seriously
harmful. How many thousands of sufferers from swollen,
painful joints and aching muscles know only too well the
waste of time and money spent in rubbing ointments into the
skin ? You must realise that chronic pains in the back, limbs
or joints are caused by poisons in the blood which irritate the
nerves. You might just as well polish the stove to cure a
smoky chimney as to rub the outside of the body to cure a
deep-seated, internal blood trouble which starts at the kidneys.
HOW TO END YOUR PAIN
QUICKLY AND FOR EVER
Go to your chemist —ask for a supply of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills. You can ask him how good the prescription
is from which this remedy is made. He knows and can advise
you. Take two De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills at night,
one before mealtimes. In twenty-four hours you will see and
know they are doing you good, and if you will only persevere
you will obtain complete relief. Whilst De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills will, from the very first dose, help you, it is only
fair to us that you should give them a REGULAR day-by-day
trial. For over forty years they have been curing chronic
sufferers, many bed-ridden, many in agony for years. There
is no secret about this successful remedy, but there is a
definite guarantee. These two facts, which have made De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills famous the world over, will prevent
you accepting any substitute.
_ mwMvxwi uUiii I /1J
DcWITTS
Sil L/AVI DJI D>
>
s
•rw 8 ,
k
a
k.
An Honest
and Reliable
There is no mystery about De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills — it is a
straightforward remedy which your
chemist can honestly recommend to you.
Purchase from him a 3/6 bottle —take the
pills according to the instructions. Per-
severe and you will be cured to stay cured.
Do not be put off with any substitute.
If you want health, ask for and see you
get De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
—the remedy with the guarantee.
Remedy
FOLLOW THE EXAMPLE OF
THIS ONE-TIME SUFFERER
Writing from 132, Layton Street,
Camperdown, N.S. W., Mrs. Newman
says: —“ A friend gave me a sample of
De Witt’s Pills and they did my Rheu-
matism so much good that I got a full-
size bottle from the chemist which
proved sufficient to banish the pain that
had tortured me for many years. ”
De WITT’S PILLS
are invaluable in all cases of
RHEUMATISM
WEAK KIDNEYS
JOINT PAINS
LUMBAGO
SCIATICA
BACKACHE
CYSTITIS
GRAVEL
STONE
NEURITIS
and all
Kidney and Bladder Trouble*
“H'ave a chop—l did two.” He turned to
the stove, and put one of the chops before
her. “A cup o’ tea?” he added.
“Yes, please.”
He poured it and passed it to her. “Here,
you haven't got any vegetables.” He took
the li.d off the vegetable-dish and pushed it
across to her
j- , , t „ ..
tn m tl p, t lsh ’ * from , *
* wn S / ate ‘ Cabbage . she said, astounded.
i7mi^nlela r iF 1 ’> ide y ° U ( ° Ca^ag ° ' thought
y JL*! * , , , <(V „ , , ,
Old Clarry flushed. ‘Yes,’ he confessed.
’But you know that time I was cooking it
for you when—when you were crook? Well,
I got to like it then .
Sarah leaned back in her chair, staring
at him. Gently her granite face softened,
Soon a rich sound filled the room as she
laughed and laughed, her eyes dancing and
her body rocking happily from side to side.
Peal after peal of music. Like bells.
Old Clarry sat up, his heart missing a
beat. This was a wonder. There was the
big woman, Bill’s mother, come back again,
laughing away there! Since Bill’s death he
hadn’t heard a whisper of this sound that
used to fill the house. It was the old
times
“If you aren't the ridieulest man!” she
said at last, wiping her eyes.
“What are you laughin’ at, Sarah?”
“Annie gave me a bag of beautiful cab-
bages as I was coming away, and I went and
stopped in at Mrs. Reardon’s on me way and
gave her the lot!” A thought started her
softly laughing again, a small echo of that
music of old times in the kitchen. “I wonder
what she'd think if l asked her for a couple
of ’em back? Real beauties.”
“Here, stop a bit,” Clarry was puzzling
it out, light dawning in his face watching
her. “You gave away a bag o’ cabbages—■
you didn’t bring ’em home to cook ’em for
me when you thought I hated ’em?”
Sarah glanced across at him, her eyes sly
and pleasant. She chuckled happily, seem-
ing to like this sound herself. “Getting
sharp, aren’t yer?” she said.
The Puffick Gentleman.
HAROLD MERGER'S
LANDLADY INTRODUCES HIM TO ANOTHER
OF HER INTERESTING LODGERS.
YOU would have liked,” said my land-
lady, “to have met Mr. Nobuck
Palmer, the gentleman that used to
occupy the room next to yours. Mind you,
I have always had superior people in my
house. Even if some of the married couples
wasn’t properly married they was very re-
spectable, or else I wouldn’t have let them stay
more than a day with me. It. don’t do to
be too severe in these days; you can’t blame
people for not getting married with all these
dreadful divorces going on, especially if
they’ve been married before and haven't been
able to get one; but respectability I will
have. Not that I mind a man getting drunk
now and then, as long as he pays for it if
he breaks a window. ‘Even be to him as
even thinks,’ is my motto.
“But Mr. Nobuck Palmer, he was a cut
above the others—a puffiek gentleman, if
ever there was one. So free and easy in
his manners, and always sayin’ ‘Beg yours'
on the slightest provocatin’;. something to
do with the peerage, I believe, too. Time
after time he used to refer to ‘My noble
ancestors.' He looked as if he might have
been a duke —in disguise, of course.
“Directly he took the room I saw he was
one of the quality. ‘I hope you won’t mind,
Mrs. Parsley,’ says he, ‘if I don’t pay the
rent until next week, when I expect one of
my ships to come in. Just at present Splosh
non est, pro hono publico, san fairy ann,
as they say in the classics,’ he says.
“Put nicely like that, of course, I didn’t
mind. I have always admired scholards,
and he was full of such Latin potations.
“Such a nice gentleman he proved, and
he • had several others coming to see
him. ‘My old college friend,’ he would say,
introducing them. You could see that some
of them hadn’t been to college, but that was
just his nice way, making them feel comfort-
able and that he was no better than they was.
A regular paradox of politeness he was.
“He wasn’t a shipowner, really, what he
said being only his way of putting things.
He told me later that he was a professional
philantlierpist; he relieved people of their
troubles. Money he said was the worst
trouble in the world. Which is true; as 1
always say, ‘Money is the root of all evil,
especially when you can’t get it.’
“But he said, poor feller, that a lot of
people misunderstood him. He didn’t exactly
say how it happened, but it .seemed he had
been providing the eddication of a young
feller —he was such a kind gentleman—when
some sort of trouble arose. The young man
thought he’d been robbed somehow, and
simply because Mr. Palmer had been with
him they took all his money from him. ‘lt’s
gone into Chancery, Mrs. Parsley,’ lie says,
‘and I left it there in Brisbane and came south
myself, because the doctors said a change
of air would bo for the good of my health.’
Well, of course, I know what it’s like when
money goes into Chancery, because I’ve read
about it. Look at all those millions that
people go to England for to claim and never
get, as far as I can make out. It seemed
to me that the young man was very ungrate-
ful to put him to all that trouble, seeing
the eddication he was getting.
“Mr. Palmer seemed so fond of talk-
ing to me that it. made me feel proud
—a scholard like him! In spite of
his troubles he’d laugh so merry when
he told me about .such things as his
estates in England and how a uncle had
stolen the birth certificate to prevent him
from getting them. ‘lsn’t the dear landlady
a dream?’ he says to one of his friends one
day. ‘She reminds me so much of my dear
old mother—as she used to be. Of Course she’s
too young to be like what mother is now.’
He was, always saying nice things about me
like that, and I liked to hear him talk so
nice of his mother. I always think it’s fine
for a man to be a prodigal son and think
of his mother. After all, blood is thicker
than water, and a lot of it must pass under
a bridge.
“He always told me that things would be
all right with him when his uncle from Fiji
arrived, and one night his uncle did arrive—
he whispered to me that it was him when
one of his friends brought uncle up, and he
borrowed ten shillings from me to buy beer,
because, he said, he might lose his expecta-
tions from his uncle if he didn’t entertain
him properly, and he’d run out of change.,
“I didn’t think much of his uncle for an
uncle of a puffick gentleman like Mr. Palmer ;
but these things happen in the best of fami-
lies, and uncle certainly looked as if he had
some money, even if he looked a bit drunk
as w r ell.
“My worst fears were realised. By-and-
bye there was such a noise in Mr. Palmer’s
room that I had to go up. It was that ter-
rible uncle making a row and declaring he
had been robbed, and would call the police.
“ ‘l’m sure no one would be robbed in my
house,’ I says, severely. T know Mr. Palmer
is a puffick gentleman, and I expect his
friends to behave likewise—even his uncle.’
“ ‘The gentleman has lost a wad of notes,’
says Mr. Palmer. ‘H'c evidently lost it before
he came up here, and has only just noticed
it. Well, we can’t let him suffer, being a
friend. You two boys see if you can give
him a quid or so’ —he spoke to two of his
friends who were in the room —‘and I’ll put
in my share.’
“That was generous, wasn’t it? His
friends handed out a couple of notes each,
and Mr, Palmer drew me outside the door.
‘l’ve got a fiver here,’ he says to me, ‘and
1 can’t give him all that. Could you get me
change, keeping two pounds to pay what I
owe you?’
“The uncle looked pacified, but very drunk,
as they helped him out —to send him back to
the Australia, Mr. Palmer said. It seemed
to me Mr. Palmer had treated him very
generous, but then it’s an old saying that
generosity knows no lord.
“Next day I was cleaning up near his
room, when one of Mr. Palmer’s friends
rushed in and started abusing him. It was
something about his uncle from Fiji being a
crook, and taking them down for their
money; but Mr. Palmer closed the door —
to stop me being offended by the bad lan-
guage, as-he told me afterwards. He was
such a thoughtful man.
“That was when he asked me to keep the
five-pound note for a while. The bank, he
said, had repudiated it for the time being—
I once knew one that did that with a cheque ;
pretty crooked some of these banks are, if
you don’t watch them ! He said he’d give
me a tenner for it later.
“It was only a little while later two gen-
tlemen called to see Mr. Palmer; important-
looking gentlemen they were, too. Shortly
afterwards I was just passing his door as
they was coming out together.
“‘Oh, Mrs. Parsley!’ he calls and then
says to the other gentlemen, ‘I must say
good-bye to my landlady—she’s been a dear
soul to me. Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, ‘the
King has sent for me —about my estates and
my money in Chancery. I may be away for
a little time; but when I get my title and
estates I’ll pay you well for your kindness.’
“And then, dear fellow, he kisses me. s
is a little present for you,’ he whisper , a
family heirloom —keep it, but don t show it,
it might cause trouble until niy estates are
secure.’ And he slips something into the
bosom of my dress. , ,
“It was a reel wonderful gold watch. The
initials on it weren’t his, so it must have
belonged to another member of the tamiij.
Just fancy giving that to me.
“I've still got it—and the fave-pound note.
I don’t know what has become of mm, net
having heard, but I know I’ll hear nun
again, a gentleman s word bem & bis bol d
age, as the saying is, and once said never
“Still he’s been gone a long time now.
Prevarication is the thief of time; but,.what-
ever happens to Mr. Palmer, 111 always
remember him as the puffick gentleman.
At Breakfast.
Sun and air were soft as silk
When this morn we breakfasted,
We had honey on our bread,
And a bowl of creamy milk.
’Twas a flower she seemed to be
As we breakfasted alone ;
And her voice was music s own,
Telling merry tales to me.
“Bless the bees!” is what I cried—
“ All their labors and tlieir hours,
And a blessing on the flowers
For the honey-hoards they hide.
Ah, her roguish witcheries
Made me long for her and fret;
There’s a sweeter sweetness yet
Than was ever got by bees.
Then she .spoke, and shining silk
Was the tress upon her brow:
“Bless the ploughman and the plough,
And the cow that gave the milk !”
“Since,” 1 said, “ ’tis good to call
Blessings on the things We eat,
Here’s a blessing on the sweet
Eyes that have my eyes in thrall.
“Bless the maid who eats with me,
Bless her dainty waist,” I said,
“And a blessing on the red
Lips that pout so temptingly !”
Then the honeyed hour took wing.
Ah, alas, ’tis ever so !
As she raised her hand to show
Gleaming there a golden ring.
“Should our love a blessing need”—
This she cooed, like any dove —
“Then a blessing on the love
That has made us one indeed !”
Blessings nowhere seemed to fall,
And I left her, smiling not;
Eaten bread is soon forgot,
Eaten honey turns to gall.
Wasted was that golden hour
When this morn I breakfasted;
For its honey and its bread
And its bowl of milk were soui\
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
-TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any eC the World's Leading
Advertising Agencies.
the mercury
—-by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
•—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
m Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch , price lid.
advertiser newspapers ltd.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8VV7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street. Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
“The Week”
\
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily— l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern j a
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE SAVING HABIT
'T'HOUGH your progress in saving may at
first seem slow —persevere! Make every
effort to continue your regular deposits.
As your Bank balance grows, you will be en-
couraged to greater efforts—your saving habit
will be strengthened.
The money you save will free your mind from
money-worries and become a stepping stone to
opportunity.
Open a Savings Account and save regularly.
Government Savings Bank
of N.S.W.
192 Branches. 648 Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
s
&
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
: :• ;
ll information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
& Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Patterson Street,
eston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Thousands subscribe to Australia’s Great
Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered
“The Bulletin” to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME :
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
&<*
o
C 5 ..*** v .-*‘
o< .. ** o^e^°f^ e ‘
o° !
wV?® * IV
S® r p»«
7?
«)?s<*


INFLUENZA
Here’s the quickest and surest
method of beating Influenza,
and, at the same time, soothing
sore throats, easing the chest,
and banishing all signs of
COUGHS and COLDS
You’re getting INFLUENZA if _ Your Head Aches,
Your Eyes Run and Redden, Your Throat, is Sore,
or Your Limbs and Back Pain You.
TREATMENT
Go straight to bed take half a teaspoonful of concentrated
HEENZO (straight from the original bottle) in half a wine glass
of hot water, every four hours .
Ease the coughing with HEENZO in its made-up form (directions
with the bottle)* Keep the bowels open, and stay in bed until
24 hours after the temperature has abated .
m
m
m
W
if
w
w
should be used in every home,
