

Ko
è
é
:
v:
m
*
<©►
43
PI
a is
.
it 1
v -t
LATEST KODAK
INVENTION.
the greatest advance
since 1903
available October 15th
fromallj<odakdealers
AND KODAK(AUSt)PTY LTD
The Bulletin
Qvw (foalA* ? $S'
Vol. 52. —No. 2694.
Wednesday, September 30, 1031.
Price 6d.
at the General Post Office, Sydney, KS.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
U- i dtress ••••...
S.B. 181 .7.7.7
1
ENifiSai
.WC^SS
m
*****
9
SS^
*#>
sSSs®
J#'
sS#
S#'
pr
838*
5^
s#-
*V\^
Endorsed by the medi-
cal profession for over
40 years.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists
and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.)
Ltd., 31 Bay Street, Sydney.
BUILD UP BY CUTTING
DOWN EXPENSES.
Comparative Low Scale Advertising
in a prosperous Market is Offered
by the Perth
More Business at Less Cost.
The big Western Weekly offers
a State-wide circulation at com-
paratively cheap coverage. Every
keen business executive must
watch costs these days. Here is
the opportunity for every National
advertiser to enter a market at
minimum expense by using West-
ralia’s largest and most popular
newspaper.
STUDY THE
BUSINESS OR TRADE
(No extra charge for
Casual
50 Single-column inches
100 Single-column inches
200 Single-column inches
300 Single-column inches
400 Single-column inches
500 Single-column inches
750 Single-column inches
1000 Single-column inches
RATES.
ADVERTISING
Block Space.)
! . -6/- per inch
5/6 per inch
5/- per inch
4/10 per inch
4/8 per inch
4/6 per inch
4/4 per inch
4/2 per inch
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854 .
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
beep moving forward —pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have net
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
««
THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
mis means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
? th , e B «siuess Builder that dis-
mmate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
23 3 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che mercury
' —by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address : “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Li.sgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Planned forthe
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
the new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News, An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’l’hone: 85241.
#
The Centre of Tasmania's
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is th'j only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 90th year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,’' “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers, .
271 Collins Street, Melbourne
Idings,
Sydney.
The Red Page
Poet, or Dilettante?
When a poet is dead and his work is
wholly done, dates serve only an academic
purpose. Those who seek poetry may read
him with gusto or disdain. The tracing of
his poetical progress is apart from poetry.,
It is like the pleasure that some profess
to get from hearing a poet read his works
aloud; an illustration that usually enough
has nothing to do with the book. If is a
matter of prosaic not aesthetic refreshment,
interesting in the degree to which the
poetical ups arid downs resemble a fever
chart; a high and fiery range with Shelley,
a great height and a precipitous fall with
Swinburne, and with most a flat waste that
may break into undulations here and there.
With a living writer of verse, dates may
serve a more critical end. They will not
say whether this or that piece is poetry,
but they may go to show whether the writer
is a poet in the larger sense, or is a dilet-
tante. A case in point is Francis Jackson, of
Walpurgis' and other Poems (Shakspeare
Head Press, Sydney; Roycroft; 3s. 6d.). An
absence of dates leaves me wondering, aftei
several interested readings of the book
whether Mr. Jackson is wearing a mantle of
his own or, like the press which publishes
him, a borrowed one. On the face, he has
traits of the dilettante. A fondness foi
doing occasional verse-—verse on pickec
topics; ticking off this and that as a nice
“subject” for a “poem”—is an outstanding
characteristic of the whole dilettante race;
and Mr. Jackson has this. Unity of aim
of direction', of outlook, and a certain relia-
bility of reaction are characteristics of the
larger-sense poet; and I cannot Arid these
in Mr. Jackson. The point about the miss-
ing dates is that their presence might have
provided a key. We might then have
known whether Mr. Jackson began as the
sensuous romantic he is in some of his
poems and changed to the brutish and some-
what sexual realist he is in others, or vice
versa, or according to liver; whether he is
naturally a writer of sentiment or a nose-
fingering urchin; whether his picturings of
death ai;e progressive or fugitive and mock-
heroic; and much other interesting matter.
It moulds be interesting matter, because it
would help to settle doubt as to Mr. Jack-
son’s poetical sincerity. In the present
arrangement of his verse he seems to change
from one attitude to another with more of
the agility of a stage poser than the virility
of a poet.
On page 22 he is contemptuous of death:
0, Death with gentle feet!
They err who talk of rattling bones that greet
The ear at your approach, your body’s grace
Strip to the vertebrae that shrouds enlace.
They lip who draw you like some monstrous cheat
Which frights men at life’s end. I know the sweet
Calm smile that dawns upon your flower-like face.
But in “Syrinx Poenitens” (p. 14) Death
has done a job to fright a Stoic:—
For as I slid a foot in Ladon’s wave,
The coldness of a thousand virgin stars
Struck through my blood their icy scimitars,
Turning warm flesh to reeds the waters lave.
It might be put forward that one of these
is dramatic recitative and the other the
Poet’s own, but the same mixing of roman-
ticism and realism crops up throughout.
Faced with a deserted orchard at Lindfield
or some oaks at Vaucluse, Mr. Jackson
romanticises with the best of them; think-
ing of the old Greeks, he is a ruthless
materialist. And there is other evidence of
uncertainty.
u t if Mr. Jackson is a dilettante, at least
he is one above his kind. I like to think he
is not, but that he is a poet; that he is
developing along the lines from conven-
tional romanticism to reality. In assuring
me of this, dates would be handy; in their
absence it must be enough to enjoy him
for his occasional poetry and in spite of his
shiftiness. He is a little grimly obsessed
with brutishness, with the tragic sordidness
of age and the hypocrisy of life. But he
writes poetry. He does so arrestingly enough
to be an answer to himself, as heard in
another booklet from the same new press,
the handy and helpful Essays on Modern
English Literature and Drama , bv Francis
Jackson and Philip Alcock (4s. 6d.). In
this he complains:—
In Australia we have no aristocracy, nor even a
plutocracy endowed with much taste’ and discern-
merit Our lives are submerged beneath a flood of
sordid cares, the processes of a struggling industry,
and the intricacies of a commercial existence.
Hence paucity of literature. It is the idea
that creative effort is a hot-house plant
dependent upon patronage. My opinion of
this sort of thing is that it is spoof, with
which w’riters console themselves for being
deficient in genius, as a certain brand of
liquor - and - life
drunks embrace
the convenient
philosophy of
Omar. Mr. Jack-
son writes poetry
and contrives to
get it published. He does so because he has
the gift and the courage. Literature never
was written yet without not one but both
of those qualities. To say that Australian
literature has been and is modest is simply
to say that whatever produces genius has
so far been of modest, fecundity. Genius is
not a hot-house plant; it belongs to the
wild; grows wherever it happens to occur.
Mr. Jackson is a very interesting poet, the
most interesting that I have read for a
considerable time. One gives him credit.
for his gift and his courage. That he has
more courage than gift—that all our poets
have and have had these qualities in like
ratio—does not say that this Australia, this
Sydney which he calls with justice and
rollicking mockery Hubbabub, will have to
change spiritually or materially before we
can have the draught of genius. That will
come all right-whenever (if ever) two per-
haps dull mortals happen to blend the two
poisons that, blended, turn to elixir.
RED PAGE.
What Our Narrative Misses
Most Australian writers fail because they
confuse the commonplace with the real.
Their appreciation of life is not aesthetic but
material. 1 heir ej r es see only actualities,
not reality. Their outlook is prosaic. It
is earthbound. Not. what could have hap-
pened, but what did happen, is their limit.
In short, they report ; they do not create.
1 hat- is the best of them. At the other
extreme is the sentimentalism which its
makers believe to be romance. It does not
matter. It gushes all over the world, and
gives flappers dreams and old ladies of both
sexes a waking sleep. But that our best
writers are earthbound does matter. It
establishes the range of our literary repu-
tation. That the hills of that range are
low is regrettable; that they are also drab
is deplorable. About them move creatures
very much like men and women. Why,
this is that dull person next doop to the
very life, we say—and at once forget him.
A decent, ordinary man he is, but what do
we want with his portrait as we know him?
He could give us one that could stir the
same eulogy, done by a photographer. Into
the drawer with it, with the scores' of
others! But if we had him as seen by a
creative artist; something that would make
us say, not, what a fine likeness of Collar-
stud, but, what a grand picture—then we
could find a place for it, or rather it would
demand its place.
A literary outlook is not the best to
give to art, but there are like fundamentals
in art and literature. Collarstud, as done
by an artist, would be Collarstud right
enough; but additionally, and also sepa-
rately, he would be a creation inspired by
a creative artist’s having looked at Collar-
stud. The written portrait comes out the
same way, but evolves differently. The evo-
lution comes by of conflict. We know
well enough what Collarstud’s reaction
would be to the conflict engendered by a
suggestion that he should lend us his new
lawnmower. If the writer would give us
a memorable Collarstud he must go deeper.
Ihe conflict must be something that will
shake Collarstud to the soul, and the writer
must demonstrate that Collarstud has a
soul to shake.
Our writers do not rise to such conflict.
The problems their characters face are of
the lawnmoyer type. That sort of thing is
all very well in its primitive way, but it is
some little distance this side grandeur. That,
I should say, is what Australian prose nar-
rative most lacks, a sense of grandeur.
Richardson is the one Australian prose
writer who has it beyond question. To some
extent it is in A House Is Built, to a greater
extent it is in Green Memory, so perhaps
the writers of these may largely achieve
it. The best of the others seem to me to
range between fine, even indelible, primi-
tiveness (Katharine Susannah Prichard,
Vance Palmer) and sound, sincere fiction
whose people exist in a very ordinary world
(John Dailey, Louis Kaye). I cannot see
their characters taking or giving in great
conflict. They struggle in the toils of exist-
ence, not of life. However true their re-
action may be to the conflict, the conflict is
never enough to raise them above earth level.
Contemporary Australian prose narrative
is not a waste by a long chalk. Haxby’s
Circus, The Passage, Only the Morning,
Tybal Men, are representative of work
greater in every way than nine-tenths of
the fiction that floods into this country.
These writers have the ability and the sin-
cerity. It is not a complaint against them
that they are lacking in grandeur; it is
just a fact. It is quite senseless to rail
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE”
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING—“The Highe.t Ideal.’
60
60
Anthony Horderns'
OUR
MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT
will forward pat-
terns and full
information
FREE,
on request.
Situated in
mmm
ww
I
■i#W ■
&M+
‘■.f*
IMW
m
lIMMK
lIMMH
M •«£
J£
m
i m i
|ih?
•m
r'
“KANEBO” SHANTUNG, for
One of the hardest wearing, best washing silk fabrics. In
weight it is almost as heavy as Assam, yet is soft and supple.
For your Summer weight costume or coat, in Natural
Tussore shade, 29 inches wide
2/9
yard.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price, yard, 2/9|.
PRINTED CREPE DE CHINE
Here’s an inspiration for those pretty summer frocks.
Anthony Horderns’ are showing it in a bigger variety than
ever! All the newest coin spots, checks, tartans and floral
effects are now open. In pure washing silk qualities.
Double width.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price, yard, 7/11.
7/n
yard.
PURE SILK CREPE DE CHINE for
100 per cent, pure Silk! No loaded Crepe de Chines
stocked by Anthony Horderns’. Two special prices avail-
able in all shades, together with black. Double width.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price, yard, 4/11, 5/11.
4/n
yard.
CREPE MARCHIONESSE
All the loveliest new designs sponsored by Fashion for
Summer frocks are featured in this exquisite soft Crepe
weave. It will wear splendidly. Double width.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price, yard, 4/11.
4/n
yard.
m
I
am i
«iti****
PRINTED CAMBRIC lOidyd,
Printed Cambrics! Guaranteed fast dyes! Small neat patterns on light,
medium and dark grounds. For smart washing frocks. 30 inches wide.
Prices, yard 1 l/3 36 inches wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Prices, yard 1/3, 1/6, 1/11.
CHIFFON VOILES from 1/-yd.
New Season’s Chiffon Voiles! In all the latest productions, including Spot,
Tartan and Floral designs on White, Black and Colored grounds, 36-38
inches wide
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Prices, yard—
1/-, 1/6, 1/11, 2/3, 2/6, 2/11, 3/11.
PRINTED DIMITY for
Printed Dimity! Fast colors! In all new designs and
shadings, 36 inches wide. Smart and serviceable for prac-
tical summer frockings.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price, yard, 2/11.
2/ll
yard.
TRANSPARENT VOILE
Printed Art Silk Transparent Voile! In the latest floral
designs. Obtainable in all the wanted colors. 36 inches
wide.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Prices, yard, 3/6, S/6.
(DRESS MATERIALS—FIRST FLOOR—WE PAY CARRIAGE.)
3/6
yard.
FRENCH FRILLINGS
Three Styles Reduced to
One Special Price.
To rejuvenate your neck-
line—these Frillings give
the hand-made French touch.
At moderate cost you can
make your frocks new and
5/n
charming again. syd. for
collar, £yd. for cuffs. yard.
A. In Beige-Blue, Parchment-Blue, Beige-
Red or Lemon-Blue. wide, very
chic. Was 8/6 yard.
B. In Beige, Green, Blue, Lemon. 3in.
wide. Was 7/6 yd.
C. Floral design in Cream, Beige, Ivory,
Lemon, Navy, Red. Was 6/11.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price,
3 styles, 5/11 yd.
Underarm
HANDBAG for
Beautifully finished and
fashioned in the smart
Underarm style. Avail-
35/6
able in Brown Morocco with Zipper fasten-
ing. Lined with Moire and fitted with
small purse and mirror.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price, 35/6
MATRON’S SHOE
27/6
e
A one-bar shoe specially designed
for Matrons. In Black Glace Kid,
made on a comfortable fitting last,
genuine pump soles, leather sports
heels.
Anthony Horderns’ Conversion Price
27/6.
In a Semi-Ankle bar style with
Leather and covered heel. Price 30/-
One-Bar covered heel. Price 35/-
ln a rich shade of Brown Kid,
Leather Heel. Price 32/6.
With Covered Heel. Price 35/-
è
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 c, GJ>.O.


Your trip to
ENGLAND via AMERICA
shorter 9 enjoy able* economical
■mm
*sm ss
Though the route is most
direct... and speedy... your
voyage home by Matson Liner,
via America brings you to
countless places you have
longed to visit.
Leaving Sydney, you enjoy day-
light stops at Auckland, Suva
and Pago Pago...a glorious in-
terlude of Hawaiian thrills with
time for bathing at Waikiki and
for an island tour ... then ro-
mantic San
Francisco
wi th all of
America be-
yond.
Making Drama in Holly-
wood-Clever directors
and famous dogs making
**n "All Barkie."
Scenic highways be-rib*
bon the taps of many Am>
er can mountain ranges*
e
MATSON SHIPS provide «
happy AMERICAN PRELUDE
You may speed across the con-
tinent and reach your Atlantic
liner in four days, or your tick-
et allows more leisurely travel
to points of great interest.
Only one ticket is needed. You
make all arrangements before
you leave Australia. Expenses
in America are truly modest
•.. your entire trip may be fi-
nanced most reasonably. Let
us give you full information
and an illustrated booklet.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge St., Sydney Telephone B 7981-3
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL; £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - - 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - • 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman) ;
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere,
including New Books of startling facts.
POST FREE
Secrets of Successful Marriage, by ])r. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4 ; Realities of Marriage, by Dr
i Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M. Galliehan. 4/0; The Perfect W ife
by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; Womeu and, Dove, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; The Compleb
Husband, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale. 1/11 ; Marriage-Before and After,' by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale
1/11; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Couvtenav Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth Control, by J
Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; .Methods of Birth Control Explained, bv Dr. G. Courtenav Beale, 1/11 ; Pitfall
of Marriage, by IV. M. Gallicban, 6/3 ; Wise Wedlock, by Dr. G. Courtenay’ Beale, 10/3 ; Medica
Views on Birth Control, 6/4 ; Physical Culture Simplified—A Complete Course of Physical Culture
o/.i ; Better Sight Without Glasses, bv 11. Benjamin, 6/4; Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopc-
-3/3j Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4 ; Sex at Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskinc
11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring Passion, bv Marie Stopes
i/lO; Contraception—Birth Control. Its Theory, History and Practice, by Marie Carmichae
Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, bv Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the young', by Mari
Stopes, 4/10; The New Toxologv—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; The Sex Factor i:
Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3 ; Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene, by Howard, 7/- ; Hygiene o
Marriage, by Isabel Hutton, 5/- ; Practical Birth Control, by Ilornibrook, 5/- ; Exercises fo
Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4; The Culture of the Abdomen, by Ilornibrook, 7/10; The Docto
at Home, by Geo. (Hack, M. 1).. 8/- ; Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake, 5/4 ; Cocktails arid Hov
to .Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Lette
W riter, 3/4; Ten Best Card Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6 ; Cards for Three, by Bas
Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/1; Popular Car:
Games and How to Play and Win, bv F. Ings. 1/5.; The Book of Luck, by 11. G. Souter, 1/5
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
CONTRACT BRIDGE.
BLUE BOOK for Beg inners and Advanced Players, by
Ely Cuthbertson, the recognised authority on contract.
New supply just arrived.
Chapters on Card Valuation, Partnership, Language, etc. Breaks new
ground for experts in the higher strategy. Distribution and Bridge Psy-
chology. Portland Club laws are included. PRICE 8/6 post free.
Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; Tab
Rapping, 2/6; Practical Palmistry (Illust.), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Han
Reading Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/-; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6
Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1 ; The New Ford! by E. T. Browi
4/3; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8; How to Read the Ham
by Karma, 4/- ; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11 ; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing fc
Amateurs, 1/11 ; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11 ; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11
Practical Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Capsell’s Conci;
English Dictionary, 3/2; Pruning, 3/10; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savagi
1/6 ; Consult Me, 4/7; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 9/-; What to Draw and How to Draw I
4/10; Poultry' Farming in N.S.W., by James Hadlington, 4/5; Owner Drivers’ Handbook, l
Edward T. Brown, 5/5 ; Home Carpentry, by John .Barnard, 4/1 ; Aust. Book of Ready-mac
Speeches and Toasts, 3/- ; How to Drive a Car, 4/1 ; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11 ; Cloc
and Watch Repairing,-1/11 ; Double-bed Dialogues, 1/2; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A
Rose, 6/- ; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 21/- ; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4 ; Zadkeil’s Dreai
Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4 ; Cheiro Guide to the Hand. 4/1 ; The Angora Rabbit Book fc
Australia, 2/3 ; Games of Patience —series 1 to 5, 2/6 ; Universal Trade Reckoner,, 4/3 ; Bulleti
Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), 1
lon Idriess, 5/6; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; Australian Squab Culture, 1/6
A to Z of Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 2/-; Dies:
Engine, by Jones —Special Price—ls/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3;. 1001 Riddle
New and Old, 2/2 ; Impromptu Conjuring, 3/3 ; Hypnotism Made Practical, by' J. Louis Orto:
3/11; Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons for Beginners, 2/6; Chess ar.
Draughts, by' Belasco, 1/5; How to Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/-.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subjec
WRITE FOR LISTS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Men are Amaze'
at their Strengt
AFTER THIS FREE BOOK SHOWS 1
THE WAY TO GREAT MUSCULAR PO
GET THIS BOOK NOW! Whether you are
or strong sickly or healthy young or
overweight or underweight regardles
WHAT your condition may be, send :
NOW! It will show you how men jus
yourself have grown STRONG. It will
you the way to a superbly-built body to
shoulders, powerful muscles, a deep chest
waist-line, to splendid health and vitality in
organ of your body
I Don’t Promise You Resul
I GUARANTEE THEM!
I GUARANTEE to put two inches of ami'
muscle on your arms; to increase your ches
five inches; to develop your neck to a siz
la rger collar; to add three inches of powerfv
development to your thighs, two inches to you
calves; to give you a firm, slim waist-line tha
will make you take in a notch or two in you
belt. And I don’t ask you to take my word for i
—I don’t promise anything—l back every state
ment with an ironclad GUARANTEE.
Ive done all this for others. I can do it for you
Get the PROOF—serrl for my amazing nev
book—NOW! It’s FR E!
MY SECRET
The great improvement in your health anc
strength is simply the natural outcome of £
SCIENTIFICALLY CORRECT COMBINATION
OF RESISTANCE. You will be amazed at its
simplicity and the results you will get from it
SEND FOR THIS FREE BOOK—NOW
ii
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Australia’s leading Physical Director.
Founder of “Health and Physical Culture”
Magazine, circulating throughout the
Southern Hemisphere.
MAKE THIS TEST TO-NIGHT!
E FORE you step into your pyjamas
to-night, stand in front of the mirror
and look yourself over: Are you proud
of the man you see? Is he a strapping,
broad-shouldered husky, with arching chest'
and rippling bands of solid muscle? Would
you bet on him in a fight ?
Be fair to yourself. You can’t expect
the respect of men or the admiration of
women if you’re a physical weakling. Let
me get to work on that body of .yours. Let
me build a man who’ll be PROUD to step
out in a bathing suit. This free book shows
how EASY it is.
You’ll never know 7 w’hat this book is
worth to you until you’ve read it for your-
self. It may change your entire life. It’s
a revolution in body-building and muscle-
building. It’s crammed full of pictures
•and matter that will make you open your
eyes. Thousands of men have thought it
worth while to get their copies. No obli-
gation—no salesman will call. YOU will
be the judge and jury. Mail the coupon
or write —TO-DAY.
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Dept. 6, 107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
1 ALFRED J. BRITON,
! Dept. 6, 107 Pitt Street,
I Sydney, N.S. \V.
| Dear Sir, —Please send
, ine absolutely FREE and
without any obligation on
'my part whatsoever, a
I copy of your latest book,
| “The Secrets of Muscular
, Strength—And How to
Acquire It.’’ I enclose 2d.
J stamp for postage.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS 30/9/’3l
y


mgr*
t- '
lafeeKtcU!
*es££. r
I
&Mvmr
:»
® ; '
H
,-'T
i •
' ■ • ;!> . %
'j| /’•l!!|l!i. *s
I '>]
£1
W
\) i
it
feii J Champion reserve
*»*^ra* ? port
S' bottled by the makers -
Si®. Thomas hardy s.sons limited!
IK ' ntU*"" »‘ t,llU "“ E » SVOne, 1
~NTT 1 PINT 6 FLUID OZS ""T
13
Fortunate
Tintara
OLD-tinted by the rays of a happy
sun, the broad vineyards of Tin-
tara smile and gladden to a rich
success.
The dominating factors of purity and
excellence, which have achieved for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wine (Gold
Label) their enviable popularity, were
created on these glowing fields.
The fact that Hardys place these
very high-quality wines before the
public at such moderate prices
sets their competitors furiously
to think. . :
Procurable at all Hotels and
Licensed Stores which spe-
cialise in stocking the higher
grades of wines.
about such things, but it is more senseless
to be unaware of them. Great Australian
prose narrative will not come through this
or that carper howling to the skies that
Australians can’t write, nor will it come
through the patronage of a plutocracy or
aristocracy. It will come as more and more
writers come to appreciate that creative
art is not transcription, that dramatic con-
flict is a thing above lawnmowers, and that
grandeur is a phenomenon essential to phe-
nomenal art.
CECIL MANN.
Malay Poetry
I was sitting in the evening on the
verandah of my bedroom in Java when
my first collection of Malay poetry arrived.
It hurtled past my nose in the shape of a
ball of paper. On unfolding the missile I
discovered it contained a letter which hailed
me as “Vizier of the Moon,” “Ambassador
of the Evening Star,” etc., and ended with
a postscript of 20 to 30 pantun, or four-
line verses, the popular form of indigenous
versification. The verses, as I discovered
later, were love-poems. This was, in fact,
the method adopted by ambitious young
ladies in the district of informing young
and good-looking white men that their state
of bachelordom might possibly be bad for
them. In the pasar, or market, the public
letter-writer was kept in almost continuous
employment writing these puji-pujians for
usually illiterate ladies. A blank space is
generally left for the name of the addressee,
to be filled in later.
I kept the. verses, but not the sender, for
many years, while I acquired sufficient pro-
ficiency in the language to be able more
or less to grasp their purport. I can’t
say I was particularly enlightened, though
one line sticks in my memory. It was
“ Kalip-kalip, mata di kapal.” “Kalip-kalip”
is a name for the firefly and “mata di kapal’’
means “eyes of a ship,” and the image con-
veyed was of a mistress watching the lamps
of her lover’s vessel snapping on and off
like the light of the firefly as it labored in
a heavy sea.
The first two lines of a pantun comprise a
Nature study. The Malay is a keen obser-
ver and delights in his national verse-form
so much that he will indulge in impromptu
pantun-making contests at weddings and
other festivities, the winner being revered
as the meistersinger of the kampong until
another Homer bursts his lyre, so to speak.
At one time, having imagined I had grasped
the principle, I fancied myself as a com-
poser of pantuns and voided what I felt was
a worthy example to a circle of village con-
noisseurs, who rocked with laughter. I was
surprised at this, as the Malay never forgets
his good manners, but discovered later that
they had mistaken mjr love-poem for a
humorous effort. I learnt then that the
second couplet must be linked to the first
by a whole web of recondite allusions,
sound and color-similarities and other intri-
cate devices for giving conventional senti-
ments an appearance of pomp and circum-
stance.
Pantuns are usually erotic, often obscene
and sometimes witty. Classic examples
have such a wide currency in the vast archi-
pelago that it is only necessary to quote the
first couplet for its complement to be under-
stood, and Dr. Johnson had nothing on the
Malay intellectual in this form of literary
gymnastics. For instance, you remark, inter
alia, “Dari mana datang lintah? Dari gunong
turun ka padi”; which means, “From whence
comes the green pigeon? From the hill it
descends to the ricefield.” What your hearer
understands is the complementary couplet,
"Dari mana datang chinta? Dari mata turun
ka hati”; which means, “Whence comes
love? From the eye it descends to the heart.”
There is a story of a Casanova of Singgora
who wooed and won a compatriot in this
fashion from under the very nose of her
unsuspecting Chinese husband in Macassar.
It is difficult nowadays to find pantuns
which are not in sentiment merely conven-
tional copies of Persian, Arabian or Indian
models. For the real native art you must go
back to the pawang, or witch-doctor. The
witch-doctor was probably the first poet,
and, unlike the vast bulk of minor or week-
end poets of Australia, he was a realist.
The Australian poet stays for a few days
at a country boarding-house and comes
back to the city to tell his fellow-suburban-
ites that Nature is essentially moral, a
kindly and sympathetic wet-nurse to man;
in fact, that it is engaged in a sort of
perpetual Anglican communion with God
in which humanity can safely join. The
witch-doctor, like the Mallee wheat-farmer,
knows better. He knows that Nature is
strange, hostile, capricious, utterly indiffer-
ent to man and ever ready to crush any-
thing weaker than itself. He knows that if
he leaves his hut for a couple of wet seasons
it will have disappeared under jungle
growth. He knows that everything in the
jungle, from the elephant to the mosquito,
is frankly inimical to him. He desires to
identify himself with Nature, not so that
he can spiritualise it and himself, but so
that he can master it. He believes that if
he can compose a charm in which the tiger
is sufficiently aptly described that fell
animal will become impotent and deliver
itself into his hands. If he can discover the
essence of a mineral, by naming it he can
make it increase or disappear. Finally, if
he can penetrate the riddle of the universe,
at the price of a couple of verses the whole
of Creation must bow down and the sun
shine or the rain come, as pleases him.
Consequently, with this incentive, he has
produced poetry which, though crude and
practically untranslatable, is to me more
convincing than that of the Australian wor-
shipper of Nature who is so anxious to show
the vegetable kingdom as united in a hymn
of love that he has to leave out all mention
of bunchytop or Barcoo-rot, although they
are as much manifestations of Nature as
a bird or a purple hill.
There is a renaissance raging amongst
Malay poets of the moment, but I would
not advise anybody to learn the language
in order to come under its influence. For
one thing, he would have to learn Arabic
as well. As I have said, the only really
indigenous poetry is the production of the
witch-doctor, and he is being rapidly re-
placed by the Government Agricultural
Department advisers "and the weather
bureau.
FENG-SHUI.
A Satchel of Books
Rivers of Damascus, by Donn Byrne
(Low; 7s. (Id. net). Peculiarly worth study-
ing by the would-be magazine short-story
writer. It is not stated, but the yarns were
obviously written for an American magazine
market, and form a perfect example of how
that sort of thing can be done while having
the setting any old where in the world. One
or two bear reading apart from that aspect,
but most are from sentimental to thin.
J. Harvey Hall’s Holy Man (George
Allen and Unwin; 7s. 6d. net), is weakened
dramatically by the author’s detachment on
the subject of his sorry hero. He dislikes
John Muir, who leaves his native village in
Aberdeenshire “a wild lad with not a penny
to his name,” and returns a famous faith-
healer ; but he doesn’t say Muir’s miracles
are bogus, and he gives him in marriage to
poor infatuated Janet at the finish. Janet is
an interesting study in sex-repression, and
there are some brilliant vignettes of High-
land peasants.
Philippa's Lovers , by Katherine Tynan
(Ward Lock; 3s. 6d. net). A sympathetic
study of a congenital old maid. Phillipa
experienced faint stirrings when dashing
Tony Wycherley first made love to her, but
her father disapproved, so she let the young
man go to Australia. They got engaged
when he returned many years later, but she
was more frigid than ever, so after a foolisli
misunderstanding on her . part, which ended
the engagement, lie turned to Clary, who
worshipped him. The characters move in
“county” circles, and haven’t a vice among
them.
This novel by The Bulletin's old contri-
butor isn’t so witty and spontaneous as
“Visitors to Hugo.” but its grown-ups are
as nice and natural and its young people as
cheery and up-to-date.
Alice Grant Bosnian's The Sixth Journey
(Mills and Boon; 7s. 6d. net) is performed
by a singularly human and likeable little
girl. Harried this way and that, as the
offspring of unmarried parents, one of whom
has died while the other is abroad, poor Judy
is suffering from an agonising inferiority
complex when her father and Hilary, the
nice girl he is going to marry, find her. It
is her last journey. A concluding passage
gives an idea of the style :■—-
Somebody rattled the door.
“Judy, you ruffian, are you still in the bath ?”
cried Hilary’s voice. “Do you want a pair of niggei
parents to-day, then?”
A chuckle and a furious splash answered from
within.
“John, John, conic quickly : there’s a whale in the
bath! 1 can hear him lashing about.”
The whale jumped out, fell into a large towel arid
presently into a rose pink dressing-gown, then began
very carefully to mop the splashes up.
And a Little Verse
FLAMBEAUX.
See the bright red flambeaux flare
Which the brave nasturtiums bear
To light spring’s pageantry!
How can words give ample praise
To the glory of their blaze,
Bewitching yonder bee?
Bold nasturtiums may elect
Sometimes to be circumspect:
When raindrops patter light
Up they hold umbrellas that,
Verdant, round, much-ribbed and flat,
Still keep the flames alight.
N.S.W.
T. INGLIS MOORE.
ANY WOMAN TO ANY MAN.
You have been clasped against my breast
In places where green dragons strode;
Because of these a tree-fork nest
Was built and thatched for our abode.
I kissed your face, I fed your thirst,
I plucked bright buds to make you glad :
You did not see the great Accurst
On reptile-feet beneath us pad.
You utter wonder at the dyes
Of butterfly and tree-top flower,
But terror vigilant in my eyes
Mixed bell with morning’s crystal hour.
Yes, pupil-darked. my eyes were wide.
I watched the great Accurst below
Best he should rear his height in pride
Then, with freed breath. I saw him go.
I strung you pleasant, senseless words —
Was it in Babylon or Troy?—
And gave you honey cakes and curds.
And praised to wives my little boy.
And, like things dreamed, stands up the wall
Of a white, sun-scourged market square,
And I, bound, leaning to your call.
Giving your mouth my bosom bare.
For I was slave-sold with my child....
And I see little toys of wood,
Red-painted, that your heart beguiled
Whcnj on your feet, man-wise you stood.
Oh, restless, naked limbs of gold!
Oh, tiny tunics spoiled and torn!
You were a man of two years old
When from your foot I drew a thorn,
And, hating pain, you struck at me,
And hit my heart with blind, clenched
hands.
I smiled —and smile still. There’s the key
To all no lover understands.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.
Answers to Correspondents.
■No notice (except of a hostile characiei’) tviU.be '"taken 'of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be Returned unless stamps accompany.
Charles D.: We can picture you sitting on
your perch and saying-, “Damn you, I will rhyme,”
and then proving it with
When you’re sold up and are drawn on the track
After struggle had worn smooth a wall with your
back.
....Waltu: Journeyman verse; no feeling in it....
Relwof: Poor stuff. And tune up your ear... .M.F.:
Last verse wants attention. Third line gives an
artificial finish to the picture.... Joan B.: Good for
the age. Keep on. Especially keep on using your
own eyes and expressing your own feelings... .Over-
seer: “Forming—fawning”—poets have lost their
license for less,.. . W.E.W.: Didn’t make us believe
it was true. And too long. .. .W. 11.: Begins .well;
then becomes impossible and tedious.... L. J.M.: Not
worth while; but it is pretty well done... .Mary R.:
Beware, of clumsy lines... .C.R.M.: Ought to grace
some children’s corner.. . .M.T.S.: No real feeling
in it; and love verse is cold porridge without it.
... . M.D.T.: Sapphic outbursts without the fire. But
by no means hopeless.... Pat: Reads like rhyme for
rhyming’s sake.... A.C.J.: Soothing syrup in seven
stanzas.. . .A.E.A.: Not quite... .C.C.8.: Glad to hear
from you. One good; “Clematis” winsome, but
lightweight... .M.J.0.: Almost as bewildering as
Circular Quay at 5.30... .Wallace G.: Can’t swallow
your acid-drop... .J.R.M.: “Kingdom” nearly did it.
You’ve got more feeling than force. .. .Morden: You
dump on us a ton of bones, and we can only use the
marrow. Correspondents must recognise the enorm-
ous demand on our space.... D.A.S.: Not quite....
M.M.C.: You’re improving—which means that you’re
expressing yourself more simply... .F.C.W.8.: Form
good; but no beauty of line... .R.W.P.: Rather too
hazy.... Mere M.: Good idea of jingle; but nothing-
in the subject.... Sister O.: A sort of frieze of all
the graveyard horrors.... J.M.E.: Some colorful
lines. Prescription for you—a little writing and
a lot of reading... .C.J.: Y r ou’ve got feeling; and
that’s a good beginning. Go 0n... .5.8.: Nicely
typed repetitions of things we all said yesterday....
T.D.: Longwinded... .S.L.L.: Like your prose style,
but not your characters... .W.F.G.: Found a corner
in vv.p.b. for hermit.... B. J.: Where in Australia
do police pursue criminals with bloodhounds and
machine-guns ?... .C.S.: Hackneyed novelette plot.
.. . .Olive F.: Poor craftsmanship. .. .H. Lind: Pega-
sus ci-ashed at the first line of the sestet.... Sue
D. 0.: Ancient as the game... .Bungee: Cheer up ;it
might have been worse. You might have married
her.... Henry B.: The metre doesn’t suit this nature-
catalogue type of verse. It is too general where it
says “numerous birds seemed to twitter their
thanks,” and too particular in
I sat on a balcony, all in a maze,
Out from the new hospital, peering around.
And it’s not poetry... .Australiensis: Hardly crisp
enough. But bright in spots. .. .M.S.: Prose put
through the mincer. “To a Work” came nearest a
win. .. .W.C.M.: Does it mean something?... .
Cacoethes S.: You might try Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, or Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne.
Printers add sales tax (C p.c.) to their charge for
tinning out books at author’s cost; showcards, hand-
bills and the like are also subject to the 6 per cent.
. ...E.R.: Humorless... .R.D.8.: You might have
got more out of it... .S.J.C.: Disconnected and un-
convincing... .C.11.E.: There’s a par. in it....
J.R.R.: Too many things happen to your hero in a
day. . . .M.L.S.: And all that fuss about an ordinary
piece of trickery !... .A.N.: You have a queer idea
of what constitutes fiction... .J. 8.: Crudely written.
. ...T.R.: Yes; the effective birth-rate has increased
ln France since the war. Between 1881 and 1890
tho i A era S e f" nual ff 1 ® “ f births f er deatbs
wa ? Per thousand of population; between 1901
and 1910 it was 1.2 ; between 1921 and 1924 it was
2.25.- No doubt the return of Alsace-Lorraine has
helped:. ..A.H.S (Offieo): Thanks for thoughtful
but wouldn t the district medical officer take
action if he reckoned the precaution insufficient f
Had turn the old girl away. . . .T.H.11.:
suit a daily. ,J E.S : No publicity for Mr.
Peddle.. G.M. : Good plot but the writing is lame,
polish TO.: Improbable
-•••J-W.R.: End too melodramatic... JH.: Not
lucid enough.... AJ. ..-Halt a dozen dailies have
co^' ed ’*•• •- W.E.8.; Lou never work them out
.^W.H.E; Lacks l spontaneity.... J.T.S.:
St,ded The Still Small Voice ....L.11. : Hasnt the
necessary light touch.... Anon: If you want the
teddy-bear yarn back, send us your name and address,
--H.A.W.: Outlawed... .L.A.: Exceeds our space
limits... .H.D.F.: Story of how Percy won the tennis
™, atch do f ° r a free suburban daily. . O.W :
There’s a Mirror par m it, condensed... LS.W.:
Had hope J° r the botUe-oh till we reached the
fiddle... .E.S.: Flapper fodder E.D.: Mere
description of bush dance is - not enough -let the
dance A s r f/ e as a background tor something striking,
••• • A C ' L - : .fact that ,t is under consideration else-
where rules it out here. .. .S.C.. It was all light till
be began to dream....O.M.: The end of the rain-
how was the w.p.b.. .. .h -G.8.: Excellent beginning,
but you muddled the end. A.V.H.: Subject beyond
vou. .. .W. 8.: Heavy... .W.S.: Lean meat
M.R.M.: Not Bulletin material.... J.A.H. : Plot
needs strengthening... H.N.: You don’t catch the
P ro P«' atmosphere.... H.S.: The writing kills it..
fAV.: Coulcln t summon up a grin... .L.S.: It didn t
P‘ nd a bidder... .G.R.: Out ot our line. ... J.R.H.:
Variation of an old thing; otherwise not badly done,
. • •. J.W.: Lou 11 have to put more twists into that
p10t... .E. L.S.: Cant you think of something else
to write up? The Domain on a Sunday has been
done to death. -
ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
COKRESPUNDeVts.
C.C.: Do you keep your eye on the paper when
drawing?.. . .F.S.: An art-teacher might be able to
,j 0 something with you, but it would be a tough
task . .. .j. 0.: Use fewer and better lines. ... J.C.:
Duds....S.H.: Your instructions to the processl-
- won’t reach him....5.T.: One look was
enough... .J.H.R.: Didn’t know they gave army
officers heavy draughts to ride... .M.C.: Don’t fancy
t h e females Anon: What have you done? Upset
a bottle of ink over a map of Australia?
G.G.8.: Needs a lot of brushing up. ...Squizz: Will
manage without the dwarf who has lost his pants....
G.P.: What the ice-skater is saying to what looks
like a dead tree is humorless. .. .M.M.J.: You do them
in 15 minutes? Spend 15 hours over the next... .W.W.:
Illustrations of “passages from Greek mythology”?
No, thank you!. . . .F.R.: We should love to oblige
the boys at Booligal but can’t give it a trot....
J.K.: We are for ever restraining that drunk from
taking a bath in the public fountain... .C.T.L.:
Belongs to the nursery... .F.D.R.: You flout too
many artistic laws... .A. 8.: Oswald Pryor was years
ahead of you... .Cohen: Well, you ought to be able
to draw a cash register.


è
é
Ms
~ ....
' : 1 1 I
A
/ P-'
Bf
% m -1
:
:
/
'f f.
V ""-
TOM :
i
RH
rl
A
l iff
I
m
I. , 1
m
MVf i
sat
w v* *>f I
• ? , 7 -, • *•... 1
*• - • mm- #V' , w v
§ M. Wfjfl?
km?',
s
;
H ■
w wm A
«?)>
$ -SB .:W / § .$
a
'•:.. , * V:
4jn»
::*:S
s s./ :
l f
ill m
l
•« li:
: ■ $&
HUH
- i
i« 13111
*
lfci.it
■■Mas
it
’|p? * w y
IH
i
m »
><y K
■'
s ssMSI
HI s:s: i&s aft w tMMm ■I iv .
V9K 1
rm:
m i
i
in
.
n
n
f
V»P*
twnt-
s
%lIfS
El
s;s:
mpiwf
a


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2694.
September 30, 1931.
BREAKING THROUGH.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; -Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s. 1 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.j 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,, Fiji, United
Kingdom and New Hebrides: Id. for 4 ( >z. or
part thereof. United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”:
Id. for 6oz. To all other places: Id. for 2oz.
THE CRISIS IN BRITAIN.
ë
foreigner—say the American—has to argue
this way: “London wants my goods. It
can’t pay me with gold; so I’ll have to
take British goods. Now, how much can I
afford to pay for them? John Bull quotes
high, because his costs are high (he’s got
too many taxes to pay); so I can only
afford to pay him in our money 80 per cent,
of what he asks in his. If I paid more, I
couldn’t sell his goods in competition with
goods from other markets.” In such a case
he would fix the price of the £ English at
about $3.88 —which is 80 per cent, of par
value.
That is where the importance of costs
comes in. It doesn’t much matter, as The
Bulletin has said a hundred times, how
high costs or wages are in a perfectly self-
contained country. The South Sea islander
can laze in the sun three-fourths of his time:
it doesn’t matter —if he produces little
he can consume little. But if he wants
motor-cars and wireless sets and picture
shows and concrete roads, and if he buys
these things from abroad, then he must pro-
duce his bananas or copra or whatever he
has to sell at a price at which he can sell
them abroad. Britain is an enormous pur-
chaser of foreign goods. It must pay with
gold for those goods if it can’t produce its
own goods at a price at which it can sell
them; and of late it has had to pay in gold.
So Britain must go along the path which
Australia has entered, and which some of
its leaders are so unwilling to travel. It
must cut down its imports. It must employ
its own unemployed in making the goods it
has hitherto employed foreigners to make.
Like us, it has now a large foreign debt and
must pay large foreign bills for foodstuffs,
etc. It must therefore reduce its costs so
that it may find markets for its own goods.
This means cutting down taxation, which is
one of the heaviest burdens upon industry.
And to cut down taxation means making a
tremendous reduction in the cost of govern-
ment. Towards these things Australia is
moving very slowly, very reluctantly.
Britain, reaching its crisis two years later
than we, may still have to show us the way.
OUR OVERSEAS DEBT.
Australia has to pay about 26£ millions a
year overseas interest; exchange to-day
brings the total to 35 millions. It is a great
sum; but the debt was in no way forced
upon us, as a reparations debt might be
after a war. We accepted it willingly;
indeed, for the most part we sought it
eagerly, and there were times when, the
response to our applications being slow, we
told Britain plainly. that it was her simple
duty to supply us with money for our
development. We cannot blame anyone for
our debt but ourselves. But that does not
at all lessen its inconvenience. In the best
of circumstances the burden would be great;
by reason of the fall in prices of raw pro-
ducts it has become a question whether it
is not too great to be borne. A certain
amount of relief has been got from the
burden of domestic debt, interest upon which
has been cut down by 22i p.c.; now the
Government has reached the point of con-
sidering whether an appeal should not be
made for relief also from the British
creditor.
Should we make such an appeal? On
what grounds could we make it? And what
form should it take, if any?
Britain developed Australia as one of the
sources of its supply of raw materials and
as a possible home for its surplus popula-
tion. We have got a little past the period
when we were nothing but a producer of
raw materials; yet it is upon our raw
products that we still wholly depend for
the settlement of our external debts—our
exports of manufactured goods are quite
negligible. Now, it is admitted that of all
countries those which produce raw
materials have suffered most in the present
world crisis. There is good reason for it,
too. The crash found the world with large
stocks of manufactured and partly manu-
factured goods of all kinds and with con-
siderable stocks of purchased raw material.
Though the manufacturing countries con-
tinued to have some work and make some
sales, the demand for raw materials stopped
dead in many instances and fell away appal-
lingly in others. The Macmillan Commis-
sion is the latest high authority in Britain
which has admitted frankly that the heavi-
est blow of all has fallen upon raw-product
countries like Australia and the Latin re-
publics of America. Britain has suffered
greatly: but it is conceded that Australia
has suffered more. That does something to
remove the natural reluctance to approach
Britain with our hard-luck story.
And there is the further point that this
crash reached us before our programme of
development had time to justify itself. Be-
tween 1920 and 1929 S. Australia almost
doubled its debt, spending the money
largely on railways and water-supply and
irrigation; and there is no doubt at all that
it did this partly in answer to what it
understood was a clear call from Britain
to take over some of its surplus population.
The same call was heard very definitely in
Westralia and Victoria; less distinctly per-
haps in other States, yet certainly heard
there also. The mind must be thrown back
to those early years following the war.
Britain had not got used to its unemployed
and its dole: the existence of a great army
for whom work could not be found was
regarded as both .a reproach and a menace.
Scores of bodies came into being to transfer
part of this army to the unoccupied spaces
of Australia and to give a helping hand on
arrival. The British Government itself recog-
nised the value of this work, and joined to
finance it. A great flow of immigrants was
expected, but did not happen: the develop-
ment of the dole in Britain practically
destroyed whatever hopes we had of greatly
adding to our population as a result of our
costly development works. Between 1919
(the year following the close of the war)
and 1930 we built up our overseas debt from
347 millions to 573 millions and our total
debt from 705 millions to 1100 millions; and
our greatest excess of arrivals over de-
partures was in 1927, when the total reached
48,924.
There is a case, then, for an appeal for
relief if we care to make it: (1) We spent
a great deal of the borrowed money in
development works to absorb Britain’s sur-
plus population, especially after the war;
(2) the development of the dole in Britain
prevented the expected immigration, and
because of that and the newness of the
works they are wholly unproductive; (3)
we are terribly handicapped in our struggle
to make good the deficit on these works by
the crash of prices, from which as a raw-
material producer Australia suffers beyond
the average.
We have been warned already that we
shall be likely to lose more than we can
gain from an appeal. But that would
depend entirely upon the nature of the
appeal. Thus it might be possible for us
to make a proposition which, while bringing
us relief, would suit a grfeat number of our
creditors very well. Our whole ground of
complaint, so far as we have any com-
plaint, is that on a great part of our debt
we are actually paying twice as much
interest as we paid when the money was
borrowed: that is to say, we have to send
away twice as much wheat and wool and
metals to satisfy a given debt; and be-
cause of the rise in the value of money,
some of our creditors are getting approxi-
mately twice as much as they got when they
first made us the loan. On the other hand,
the time may come when, owing to a great
rise in prices, they will get much lqss than
they got at first. So far as The Bulletin
knows, no big loan was ever offered at a
rate of interest to be governed by the price
of commodities. But why not? The aver-
age investor in trustee stocks wants safety
and a known income. He cannot, however,
have a known income if its purchasing
power is liable to tremendous fluctuations.
A bond whose interest moved with the
London index figures, either of Australian
staples or of commodities in general, would
be probably the first public security ever
offered which was inflation-proof; and in
these days that might be so put forward as
to be very attractive indeed.
It is hard to see what damage we could
do ourselves by such a proposal. We would
not ask for any actual reduction, of interest
whatever. All we would ask would be that
our creditors would accept the same real
return now as they had when they lent us
the money; and for our part we would con-
tract that, so long as the bond lasted, they
would never get a smaller real return, no
matter what inflation or other influences
might do to prices. Whatever appeal we
made it would have to be genuinely volun-
tary; and unless we could offer some posi-
tive advantages, it is doubtful whether any
voluntary appeal would succeed—unless per-
haps it was offered as an alternative to
something worse, and that would not only
destroy its voluntary character, but would
certainly be very damaging to our credit.
SHADOW SPARRING.
From signs and portents it seems that
“over-capitalisation” is going to be our
newest “blessed word Mesopotamia.” The
“secretariat” which is inquiring into ways
of coping with unemployment has dis-
covered it and discoursed on it at length;
and soon there threatens to be a general
cackling around the old dry bones, just
as there has been around so many other old
dry bones during the past futile 26 months.
What a thing is valued at does not really
matter so long as we only want to use it.
Thus whether a farm is valued at £5O or
£5OOO makes no difference to its produc-
tivity: it may increase tenfold in market
value without the owner knowing anything
at all about it. It is not over-valuation or
over-capitalisation that matters nine times
out of ten: it is over-borrowing. And in Aus-
tralia it is too late in the day to do very
much about that. Here is a farmer who
knows now that he paid or, rather, has
undertaken to pay twice too much for his
land. He put up a few pounds dredged out
of his own pocket; the balance he got
from, say, the Rural Bank. You can take
a pen and write down the capital value of
that farm; but you don’t get rid of a
penny of the farmer’s debt by doing so.
So far as that farm is concerned you can
only get rid of debt either by repaying the
Rural Bank and Savings Bank depositors
or by robbing them of their money.
There is not a railway management in
Australia which has not at some time or
other wanted to write off part of the capi-
tal of the system in its charge: at the
present moment it is the Queensland men
who have special longings that way. And
they can put up a very good case. Many
of the lines were built to oblige politicians
and without the blessing of the railway
heads; there has been, moreover, heavy
depreciation, and replacement has not always
been provided for out of earnings. The
manager is quite justified, then, in claiming
that he ought not to be expected to show a
return on capital which really has no exist-
ence. When a company builds a line with
its own money, it can revalue the works
at any time, and if they are over-valued
it can write off the corresponding capital as
lost. But if the co. or the country has bor-
rowed money to build the line, the writing
off does not shift the smallest fraction of
the debt. For the same reason writing off
capital does not relieve us of a ha’porth of
interest burden.
This is not to say that over-valuation
cannot have any real effects. Here is a
concern with a capital of £300,000. The
shares used to be above par (£1); to-day
they are 10s. It can be argued that, in the
opinion of the market, half the capital has
been lost; and if, accordingly, half the capi-
tal were written off, it would in future
require only half as much profit to pay a
10 p.c. div. as it did formerly. But though
reduction of capital might thus improve the
prospects of the workers (for the struggle to
pay a dividend on an excessive capitalisa-
tion has produced much sweating and many
a strike), no amount of writing down will
revive employment to-day.
The thing to aim at is the prevention of
future over-valuation and so of over-
borrowing. It will not be easy; for what
seems like grievous over-valuation to-day
seemed quite a fair price in the boom of
three or four years ago. It is, nevertheless,
possible to withhold much assistance from
the process of inflation and over-valuing.
Hitherto almost the entire weight of Gov-
ernments and Government institutions has
been thrown into the scale in favor of
inflation. In their struggle for revenue,
taxation commissioners of practically every
kind have pushed up the valuation of prop-
erty to the highest possible point; and
where there has been a Valuer-General he
seems to have led the merry hunt. We can
at least see that those errors are avoided
in the future, especially where, as in N. S.
Wales, there is a Valuer-General’s depart-
ment, which has in its power to steady
prices instead of establishing them on the
highest peak to which some misbeguiled
fool has been induced to climb.
But to play about with the subject in the
expectation that present relief can come
from it is like looking to a mirage to quench
our thirst.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
What the British Crisis Means to
Australia.
During 1929 it cost on an average £101.26
in Australian money to buy £lOO in English
money; during 1930 the rate was raised
gradually to £109; in January of this year
it went to £120.35, in February to £130.50,
and there it has stuck ever since. But the
English £ is now "off” gold; that is to say,
you can’t any longer change an English £
for a sovereign. The American dollar has
become for practical purposes the standard.
At par the English £ is worth $4.86; after
the gold standard was suspended last week
the £ English was valued as low as $3.75,
but recovered to $4.40. At this or a little
less it looks likely to stand. This means
that the £ English is worth about 18s.
The question arises, What is the £ Aus-
tralian worth now in English money? In
other words, what should it now cost in Aus-
tralia to buy £lOO in England?
Assuming that the £ English is worth
18s., on the figures exchange should be at
117.5; every sixpence fall" of the £ English
below par should reduce the exchange Aus-
tralia-London by about 3.3 per cent.: —
Austra-
lian. English.
English & at par .. .. 130.5 = 100
„ „ „ 19s 123.9 ~ „
„ „ „ 18s 117.4 „ „
„ „ .. 17s 110.9 „ „
„ „ „ 16s 104.4 „ „
At 16s. the English £ would be worth $3.88.
After the Great War it fell much below that
—to 3.19 in Feb., 1920, which means about
13s. 3d.
But it does not follow that the Australian
exchange will work out as it should by
mathematics. The English £, as we have
seen, fell to $3.19 in 1920, and was at a
heavy discount for years afterwards. Yet
never during that period did Australian-
London exchange move more than a point
or so above or below par. It still cost us
more than par to buy money in London
down to 1924; in that year the average sell-
ing quotation was 98.53. Influences were
thus at work which prevented the deprecia-
tion of the English £ having any effect on
the Australian £: we paid as many £’s
Australian for £lOO English when the
English £ was worth 13s. 3d. as when it was
worth 20s. But there is this to be said:
during that period we were borrowing
enormously from Britain. Between 1920 and
1924 our foreign debt bounded along from
358 to 461 millions. We were borrowing
English pounds for the settlement of our
debts abroad; and in those circumstances it
was hardly possible for the Australian £
to exceed the English £ in value. We may
therefore probably dismiss the 1920-25 ex-
perience as having no bearing on the present
case.
That being so, and if we may assume that
we shall get the full benefit or otherwise of
the depreciation of the £ English, exchange
should fall according to the table above.
The 30 per cent, premium which Australian
primary producers have been getting
on their exports will shrink. It has been
Assumed that this will be lost money. As
a matter of fact, the British prices will
certainly rise to counterbalance this loss.


Paying in depreciated money, of course
Britain will have to bid higher for every-
thing. Our exchange with other countries
will probably be unaffected. For most of a
year past it has been possible to get a
limited sum from Maoriland to London for,
say, £ll per £lOO. But it has cost £l9 to
get money from Australia to Maoriland. In
the same way, if the exchange London-
New York is 15 p.c., then it is fairly safe to
assume that, until our position improves,
we shall pay what is necessary to bring the
total to 30.5 per cent.
But there will be strong influences at
work to prevent any rapid changes. During
the past year very large sums of money,
the proceeds of the sales of foreign goods,
have been dammed back in Australia by
costly exchange and the difficulty of arrang-
ing it. A big, quick drop in the premium
would release a great amount of this money,
and the demand would again stiffen the
price, London will be eager to reduce the
rate for the benefit of its manufacturers
and exporters; many Australian bankers
may be expected to offer a steady resist-
ance to any large or sudden change.
It is not wise to take much notice of what
happened last week, when wool, for example,
rose 15 per cent, and more, and stocks and
shares brisked up to match. The momen-
tary conditions were quite artificial: the
sellers of wool were getting the benefit not
only of the depreciation of the English £,
but also of an exchange rate fixed before
the English £ depreciated. That could not
last: it is unthinkable that Australia should
continue to pay as much for 100 English £s
worth 16s. or 17s. as we did for them when
they were worth 20s. At the week-end,
indeed, the English £ was worth substanti-
ally less than 16s.
♦
Freetrade in Low Water.
.John Bull and his wife, Jane Cow, are
being driven to the conclusion that they
can no longer afford the luxury of Free-
trade, partly because of losses during the
war, and partly because the population of
Great Britain is some 2| times larger than
it was 70 years ago, while the country re-
mains the same size. With that increase in
the family John has to scratch for a living.
For a long time his exports, including
"invisible exports,” or money earned abroad
as the world’s banker and broker, have paid
for his imports, large as they were, and left
something over to lend to willing borrowers;
but of late the credit balance has melted
away. His exports of goods made in his
own factories have diminished terribly,
banking profits have fallen (that is suffici-
ently illustrated by the figures of the Union
Bank, Bank of Australasia, and E., S. and A.
Bank, which are examples close at hand),
and the loan business lias become precari-
ous, as is shown by the default of Lang,
who is a great deal too close at hand; and
(lie decline in the profits of British shipping
cos. is notorious (the other day a shipping
peer was sent to gaol for trying too hard
to conceal the fact that one of the biggest
and oldest of them had ceased to make pro-
fits at all). A condensed statement of how
lather Bull stands would run something
like this in millions of pounds:—
1928. 1929. 1930.
Imports 1X9.-, 1220 1014
J '' x l Jolts 843 839 657
Earnings abroad . . . . 495 504 431
Surplus available for Loans,
etc 143 123 44
lhe position slumped badly in 1930, when
British exports declined by £182.000.000 and
British earnings abroad fell by £73,000 000.
And 1930 was only the beginning of the
crash. This year 1931 will be remembered
as the one when the Party Government sys-
tem went to bits and a combination Minis-
try was formed, through the King’s active
intervention, to avert an indefinite catastro-
phe; also as the year when the outgoings
of the unemployed (or dole) fund came to
£1,000,000 a week more than the receipts,
and the time when the Government raised
loans in New York and Paris on terms that
in some cases meant 6 per cent, interest and
settlements overseas in gold were sus-
pended. Also it will live in history because
the very much reduced navy had its pay
cut down as a further economy, and fell
into something not distinguishable from
a state of mutiny.
In these conditions British people begin
to think that it may be worth while to
reduce imports heavily, and to make more
of the goods they require in their own fac-
tories, and supply more work for their
own people, even if there is less than
£1,044.000,000 worth of work per annum to
give to outsiders. This may mean some
damage to Freetrade; but Freetrade is John
Bull’s own joss, and it is the privilege of
every independent citizen to wallop his own
joss if so inclined.
Our own Earle Pages and similar diehards
will probably stick to their importing
theories for a while even if their father
deserts them. Their view is that Freetrade
makes the Old Man so rich that he will
always have millions to lend so as to keep
up the expenditure boom of his Australian
son. But the Old Man makes no secret that
he now hasn’t the millions to lend, Free-
trade having gone back on him, and that
he has a low opinion of his spendthrift son.
who seems likely to fail him when a solvent
debtor would be something in the nature of
a godsend.
Japan’s Depression Remedy.
leng-Shui’' : The act of war committed
by Japan in Manchuria has nothing to do
with the murder of Captain Nakamura.
It is only another of depression’s world-
wide manifestations. Nippon’s social system
is cracking. Unemployment is rife. The
machines are there and the hands to work
them are available. But the political
wisdom necessary to bring men and
machines together is as lacking in Japan
as in every other country. Goods have
accumulated, but there is no money to buy
them. Nobody knows how to put the
matter right, except by the old expedient of
finding foreign markets. In other words,
Japan is trying to make and sell things
other people want because her own people
can’t afford to buy the things they want
themselves. No Government faced with
such a situation can be unpopular if it
advocates foreign war. War means destruc-
tion of goods which require replacement;
this means that factories get going again and
unemployment disappears.
The Manchurian incident is another illus-
tration of how little we yet realise that we
are all engaged in scratching a living out
of the same planet, that the same forces
influence Dyaks equally with Czechoslo-
vakians. We all live inside our little
national compartments, first-class, second-
class and dogbox, pretending to be unaware
that the train is taking us all to the same
destination. Germany has an economic
crisis and France rejoices. Britain has a
crisis and Germany rejoices. Japan solves
her difficulties by a little war with China,
and America starts wondering how she can
get a trade advantage out of it. Nobody
in charge seems to realise that we are
children all of the one father, but hit at the
moment by the same depression. It is
shaking democracies in Europe and im-
memorial autocracies in Asia. Under its
influence rich men are frenziedly shifting
their money about from one country to
another in the vain hope of obtaining
security on a planet where there is no
security, and poor men everywhere are
facing the menace of starvation. In every
country men believe that things can be
put' right by a political miracle. In social-
istic countries they believe that capitalism
will put them on their feet again. In
capitalistic countries socialism is the cure-
all. Where dictatorships exist men pray for
a democratic renaissance, while the demo-
cracies are unanimous in their belief that
what is needed is a dictatorship.
The Japanese statesmen are realists to
this extent, that they recognise that Man-
churia is one of the few ungrabbed portions
of the earth on to which an up-and-coming
nation can unload the goods its financial
system won’t let it purchase for its own
nourishment and happiness. The statesmen
of other countries must be viewing their
enterprise with considerable envy, if Aus-
tralia had a Manchuria available, some of
her statesmen, whose mental bankruptcy is
daily becoming more painfully obvious,
would be advocating the Jap remedy.
*
Parents, Children and State.
Two or three weeks ago a correspondent,
“Birkrode,” wrote telling of the extraordi-
nary difficulty he had in acquainting his
growing-up children with certain facts about
themselves and sex which he knew they
ought to have; and he appealed for help
out of his difficulties. Plenty of suggestions
have come to hand: these seem to cover
most of the ground:—
“M.G.S.”: Obviously he can’t instruct them. If
a father and mother are unable to speak frankly
to their children on the subject, it is not the
children who need sex instruction—it is the parents.
It is not that means of instruction are lacking 1 .
Forel’s “The Sexual Problem” was translated into
English in 1900, and if our education authorities
really wanted to instruct anybody they could make
a cheap textbook out of it for the use of parents
and teachers.
“Compass”: At the tenth Annual Rotary Conven-
tion, Charles H. Barker, Doctor of Hygiene and
Physical Culture, delivered a lecture on “A Father’s
Responsibility to His Son.” Again at Convention
Hall, Rochester (N.Y.), before an audience of nearly
4000 women, he delivered a similar lecture on “A
Mother's Responsibility to Her Daughter.” Simple
in language, gracefully and tactfully put, those lec-
tures explain all the points on which parents who
do not shirk their duty desire to inform their
children. They have been printed in pamphlet form
by the Rotary International. If “Birkrode” has a
Rotarian friend, the acquisition of one or both of
these lectures is a simple matter.
Ws. Goodison, hon. sec. of the Racial Hygiene
Association of N»S.W.: There are many good pamph-
lets which will help in the adolescent stage, but the
parents must do the first part themselves; and if
the}' will' read the beautiful fairy story written
by Edith Howse, it will not be difficult to cope
with this problem. Here at the office of the Reu ial
Hygiene Association we have a very excellent library
and plenty of pamphlets, and I am always ready to
help parents with their difficulties.
“Family Physician”; I have performed the office of
educator on a number of occasions to John, but not
Matilda. I insist first that it is the parents’ job,
and only consent to act in loco parentis when I
fail utterly to induce the parents to undertake the
task. I contend that all the essential facts cannot
be given in the correct atmosphere to the average
Matilda of a good home by any man. It is the
mother’s job first and always, and after her the next-
best female substitute. The parents must first
learn the essential facts and realise them to be
natural, commonplace things of life before they
can hope to impart them in a correct atmosphere.
This atmosphere is all-important. The facts of sex
and their important effect on life can and should be
imparted in the same way as the mechanical prin-
ciples of an internal-combustion engine would be
imparted to a boy of 14 who asked his dad how a
motor-car works. That has been my plan. I
describe the essential anatomical details, the facts
of impregnation, the development of the egg and
so on. The frog or hen may be used as an example.
The boy’s main attitude in my experience is not
embarrassment, but interest. More often than not
he fires questions. All must be answered truthfully
and fearlessly. The question of venereal disease
follows as a natural corollary. If the educator
has educated himself and approaches his pupil
in the correct atmosphere, the task is not hard.
Above all, don’t take the lad into a room and make
a mysterious rite of the business. That’s why I
hate the job as a family practitioner. The boy asso-
ciates the matter with doctors and things unusual
and mysterious. Let it come up almost casually.
One dad I know told me he spent a most interesting
half-hour squatting on his heels at the edge of a
pool holding a stick in his hand and lecturing to his
offspring on the facts of life, over a black-speckled
white froth of frog spawn.
4
G.S.B. Deposits.
Some poor people who have money locked
up in the N.S.W. Savings Bank are being
rooked; and the question is what can be
done about it. Depositors who know their
way around have been getting 16s. in the £
for their books: yet cases are reported to
The Bulletin of indigent old folks being
fobbed off with 12s. and even less by
dealers. There seems no earthly reason why
the Stock Exchange shouldn’t handle this
business. Even if they had to do it at an
absurdly low commission, most of the mem-
bers probably wouldn’t object—it’s not
often they can do a social service, and this
is an occasion when they might. The price
would be fixed, anyway; and that would be
a protection against the present wholesale,
mean robbery.
4
The Workers and War.
At Communist and a good many Labor
meetings the argument has been much used
lately that capitalists are the only people
who have anything to gain from national
defence. This propaganda has led to the
virtual scrapping of our citizen army, and
to the great reduction of the navy. Actually
it is the poor—those who arc chained to
their native land because they have no cash
to get them out of it, and no overseas in-
vestments to go to —who suffer most from
lost wars. Most German workers have just
had 13 years of hell; most German capital-
ists, typified by the ex-Kaiser and members
of his family, have lost nothing but honor.
When a nation is beaten the victors take
valuable assets —in Germany’s case Alsace-
Lorraine—and hand over a reparations bill.
Reparations payments have beggared whole
classes in Germany—teachers,- professors,
officials of all kinds, artists, writers and
traders in non-necessaries—and put millions
of workers below the bread-line. A writer
in the London “New Age” mentioned the
other day that there were nearly 17,000
suicides in Germany last year as against
about 3000 in England.. And a cable said:
Germany’s birth-rate in 1930 fell below that of
France for the first time in history; only 17.5
children were born for every 1000 inhabitants, while
the rate in France was 18.1 per thousand.
The French workers are the most prosper-
ous in the world, partly because their
country was on the winning side, partly
because it has exploited victory on
the ruthless business lines the Germans
would have employed if they had won.
Money-loving though they are, the French
taxpayers gladly pay for the world’s biggest
army; and, poverty-stricken though they
are, the Germans keep trying to build an
effective navy. They wouldn’t be satisfied
with pocket-battleships if it weren’t for the
Versailles Treaty.
There will unhappily be wars while suc-
cessful warfare can be shown to pay as well
as it has paid the French; and the only
reward the workers of a nation that goes on
strike against war can expect will be the
one the defenceless workers of Germany
have had from France, which claims to be
the most civilised in the world. A defence-
less Australia would probably be the prize
of a less considerate race, and Australians
who weren’t in a position to emigrate would
suffer proportionately.
4
The Douglas Social Credit Plan.
From Major C. C. Armitage:—
As I, like Major Douglas, come from India, where,
owing- to the fluctuating rupee and the wily Hindu,
we all have to learn something about finance, and as
I am a believer in the Douglas proposals, I would
like to give you my idea of credit according to the
Douglas plan in as few words as possible.
Credit is made on and by the property and goods
of the individuals in the community. For instance,
credit can be and is given on houses, wheat, cloth,
etc.; the banks give credit on people’s goods and
property, not on nothing, and very seldom on gold.
The credit being created out of people’s goods
and not out of the bank’s goods, the money lent in
exchange for these goods being also more often other
people’s money and not the bank’s money—for in-
stance, we have current accounts in the N.S.W. banks
equal to £95,000,000 and only £30,000,000 of notes
and cash in the whole of N.S.W. (approximately)
the question arises: Is it fair that the banks should
make profit out of these transactions which, although
legal, are not quite honest for the banks, although
permissible for the Government, as money on trust
on deposit is lent by banks without the owners’ per
mission?
The Douglas idea is that this “national credit”
should be used by the Governments to lighten the
taxation of the people and not for the private gain
of private banking companies and individuals.
And “on behalf of the Douglas Social Credit
Publicity Committee, Sydney”:—
The present opposing factions of the community,
employer and employed, ought to endeavor to sink
their apparent differences, realising that what now
seems to make the interests of the one opposed to
the interests of the other is entirely due to the
faulty and obsolete economic system (invented in
the old days of handicraft) now governing human
affairs; combined with a faulty and pernicious
financial policy, to which both employer and employed
are compelled to be subservient. The Douglas Social
Credit proposals lay bare this faulty financial policy
in its hideousness, showing the primary cause of
human ills to have its root in the power wielded by
Finance, known as the control of Credit, which has
been usurped by the banks, and which ought to be
under the sole control of the community and used
for its exclusive benefit.
The aim of the first objective of true reform must
be in this direction, and can only be accomplished,
fh-st by taking away from Finance the power to
create and destroy Credit at will. Instead, this
power must be placed into the hands of a State-
controlled bank, which will, in conformity with the
will of the people, create such costless credit for
the machinery of industry as may be required, and
solely for the . benefit and the well-being of the
people. The Commonwealth Bank was originally
formed with some such objective in view, but this
objective was subsequently tampered with under the
Bruce-Page Administration—no doubt inspired by
High Finance, to which all politicians and legislators
are subservient, even though against their will and
choice. Our Commonwealth Bank must therefore
be restored to its original . status, with its
functions clearly defined, making it subject
in all respects to the well-being and the
will of the community. The control of Credit
must be nationalised and vested in the Commonwealth
Bank, which will use that power solely on behalf
of, and for the benefit of, every member of the
State, free from all political interference or control.
Another factor of the Douglas system is the
introduction of a policy whereby the community as
a body will always be in possession of purchasing
power to the total existing amount of the commodities
of life—a condition which, under the present economic
system, is never realised, and this fact has proven
a prolific cause of many of our social, economic and
national troubles all the world over. This equation
of the purchasing power of the people, being at everv
point equal to the total quantity of available goods,
is known as the Douglas Just Price Formula, which
makes inflation and deflation impossible.
Immediate action is necessary to prevent bloodshed.
4
Back to the Land!
A Westralian recently wrote to Perth
“Sunday Times” saying that he would like
to take up a homestead block in the south-
west from which he might scratch a living
for his family of five, and asking whether he
could be accommodated. The Lands De-
partment, to which the letter was submitted,
replied that he could. It had improved
and unimproved land available in the south-
west, “land suitable for dairying and in-
tense culture; there are a number of vacant
blocks in the Busselton and Denmark dis-
tricts”—both veiy pleasant places. And
for an outlay of £1 12s. 4d. to cover office
expenses the inquirer could get 160 acres as
a free homestead farm.
Why don’t the State Lands Departments
compile lists of the small holdings they can
supply and have them published in city
newspapers, together with all the informa-
tion necessary, every now and then? There
are thousands of city men, such as archi-
tects and building contractors, who, seeing
their savings dwindle with no prospect of
steady employment, would be glad to live
inexpensively in the country until good
times return. There is a still greater
number of unemployed manual workers
who would jump at the chance of taking
up a bit of ground where they could out
up a humpy, feed themselves (at least,
in part), and get an occasional day’s work
in the neighborhood; and many have
friends who would help them. They might
lack money, but they would have things
more precious than money—health, inde-
pendence, self-respect—and, after all, they
would be following in the footsteps of mil-
lions of Americans and Frenchmen, small
farmers, who are scarcely feeling the de-
pression at all.
Given a few leaders with vision, there
would be a great movement of population
from the city to the country. Indeed, if
we are to escape trouble more serious than
any we have yet experienced, there will
have to be such a movement; but the Lands
Departments must help.
*
Papua’s Meccano Gibbet.
A trusted contributor’s report:—
Port Moresby owns a fine, upstanding, double-
storeyed hangman’s scaffold. Now and again some
particularly atrocious murder convinces our Central
Court that the perpetrator should be hanged. So a
contract is let for the erection of our big wooden
Meccano set; the sheriff hunts about for some
necessitous person willing (for a consideration) to
act on the fateful occasion; fleets of crowded kata-
marans come hurrying from all directions to Port
Moresby to witness the great event —and then fails
an ultimatum from Canberra prohibiting the per-
formance. The whole place seethes with indignation.
The natives are wrath because they’ve been robbed
of an ecstatic excitement; the white populace resent
the dangerous and arbitrary intervention by out-
siders who happen to be temporarily exercising
power from Canberra.
The natives are agog with all sorts of wonderful
and weird reasons accounting for the reprieve. Some
aver that one missionary body or another has
succeeded in talking the Government over; others
reckon that the murderer’s friends have induced some
powerful pourri-pourri men (magicians) to “work the
oracle”; many state quite boldly that the white
people are “not game” to risk arousing the ire of
the district from which the murderer comes. Those
administering affairs here, realising the folly and
danger of such a debacle, and anxious to avoid any
blame for it, hurry a notice into the local news-
paper informing the white public of the fiat received
from Canberra. So the Meccano set is once more
dismantled and stowed away. The reprieved is put
into the ordinary prison gang, which leisurely
empties our garbage, chips weeds off the roads, and
docs other light chores for the liberal ration of rice,
meat, vegetables and tobacco w.e regale our native
prisoners with.
Is it any wonder that- serious crime is increasing
here; that there is a growing contempt for out-
law, through the inadequacy of the penalties we
impose on malefactors; and that certain districts arc
becoming so aggressively insolent to the isolated
whites whose business sends them wandering there?
At night now, about the native compounds, within a
mile of the principal settlement, one may near a
big coal-black Oricolo savage loudly bragging that
he is So-and-So, who has stolen many favors from
the white women ; that he is frightened of nobody;
that if the Government dares adopt drastic measures
his people will teach them a great lesson. Our
circumstances are quite outside the experience of
those who occupy Ministerial offices at Canberra, and
their intervention in such an arbitrary way, be-
littling our judicature and subverting our statutory
law, is too dangerous to be any longer tolerated.
It has cost many valuable white pioneers’ lives to
win the modicum of respect we had won from the
primitive savages of this territory, aud it will cost
a great many more to regain that which has been
forfeited, since Canberra has thus intervened to
frustrate the endeavors of the experienced and com-
petent authorities here.


ē
“ I’ve been smoking them for
over five years and have never
found them vary one iota! ”
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
In one way Australia ought to score
a few out of tlie weakness of the English £.
If exchange held for a twelvemonth at the
past nine months’ figure •(£l3O 10s.), it wotild
cost us just about nine millions to land our
interest in London; so every 5 p.c. reduction
in exchange, if it lasts over a year, is worth
about a million and a half to us. But there’s
a nigger in the woodheap, of course. What
we have been losing as borrowers and im-
porters we have been gaining as exporters.
If the figures of imports plus foreign interest
charges were exactly the same as those of
exports, we should come out even on ex-
change ; so long as our exports don’t reach
that total, the balance of exchange is against
us; so a reduction of the rate of it will be
in our favor.
Page’s proposal for a national Government
led to Scullin declaring that he didn’t believe
in such Governments, and that the moment
he was unable to control a majority of the
H*ouse he would cease to be Prime Minister,
Before the debate was over Lazzarini had
accused him of having “stood on the door-
“No, Doctor, I’m opposed to a national
Government on high moral principles.
Besides, there are only thirteen Min-
isterships to go round.”
step of Frank Tudor waiting for Frank
Tudor to die in order to get the nomination
for the Yarra seat” —an insinuation which
Attorney-General Brennan had some war-
rant for stigmatising as “the vilest thing I
have ever heard in the House.” Lazzarini
is part of the majority that the Prime
Minister “controls.”
They begin to compare their own good
qualities in the Federal Labor party. Mr.
Lazzarini says he thinks Mr. Brennan is
“a greater crawler and a dirtier liar” than
ever he (Mr. Lazzarini) was.
The rigid Sabbatarian, being reminded that
the Founder of the Faith and H'is disciples
walked in the cornfields on the Sabbath, said
sternly that he didn’t think any the better
of them for it. And if John Bull, the shin-
ing example of Freetrade, throws Freetrade
overboard, because the times have outgrown
it, the “S. M. Herald” will probably say
the same about him.
Lang has decided that the “S. M. Herald”
shall not be used for N.S.W. Government
tender advts., not because it isn’t a good
medium for advertising, but because he
doesn’t like its politics. The next step on
from that will be to cut out contractors whose
politics he doesn’t like. And after Mr. Lang
has established the practice of punishing
people whose politics he doesn’t like, the
natural thing will be to reward out of Gov-
ernment money those whose politics he does
like. It might be cheaper in the long run if
there was a straight-out purchase of votes.
Queensland’s Vagrancy, Gaming and Other
Offences Bill, introduced last week, runs
much on the same lines as the N.S.W. Con-
sorting Act, with one improvement—a clause
forbidding publication in newspapers of
photographs of parties or witnesses in sexual
or divorce cases; penalty, £lOO. Even the
Labor press approves of this provision,
thereby almost staggering Premier Moore,
placid as he is.
When Dunstan led the Vic. Country
Progs, the Hogans listened attentively
to everything lie said, and often let
him have his own way. Now that he is
merely deputy-leader of the Cocky party of 14,
sitting in the Opposition corner, they worry
little about him. A non-party Government
was suggested by Dunstan last week, but
the Ministry turned a deaf ear, and Argyle,
who has not succeeded in consolidating the
two sections and two units of the Left, gave
no encouragement. Argyle cannot stomach
joining a group that would have to take
orders from the Trades Hall.
Going off the gold standard endangers
Father Bull’s position as the world’s banker
and honest broker; but the Old Man has one
resource, if he cares to avail himself of it.
H'e can ask Jack Lang to show him how
to deal with “hungry bondholders’’ and
establish “a goods currency.” Jack would
be sure to break the Bank of England, for
which he has an immeasurable contempt (he
discovered the other day that there had been
a run on it, like the run on his Savings
Bank) ; on the other hand, he would start
a great lottery, so that all the unemployed
could strike it lucky. That’s what thou-
sands of his own out-of-works are trying to
do, the exchange of dole coupons for lottery
tickets, at a tremendous profit to the trader,
having become about the most thriving busi-
ness in the dear old Mother State.
Queensland’s Moore Government is in-
creasing its unemployed-relief tax from 3d. in
the £ to Cd. Still, at 6d., it will be only 50
p.c. of Lang’s tax (and Lang wanted to
make his tax ss. in the £) ; moreover,
Queensland knows from experience that the
fruits, less administrative expenses, will be
devoted to giving people real work. The
proceeds of Lang’s impost, less administra-
tive expenses—relatively much higher than
in Queenslahd —are reserved almost exclu-
sively for the dole, which even A.L.P. branch
presidents are beginning to pronounce “the
most demoralising thing ever introduced into
N. S. Wales.”
With the fall in the £ English, there has
been a spurt in the prices of practically all
the commodities that Australia exports, and,
while realising, that it is due in part to specu-
lative buying, producers in all the States —
produce from all the States is affected —pray
that it will continue. Treasurers join in the
prayer, adding one on their own account for
some relief from the burden of exchange on
their overseas payments—£l,ooo,ooo of
Queensland’s estimated deficit of £1,750,000
is for exchange at the present rate. A con-
siderable drop in the exchange rate would,
however, mean the transfer of overseas funds
now held here; and that would mean that the
banks would be so much less able to finance
necessitous Governments—and they are all
necessitous. Politics has become an im-
mensely more complicated business than it
was in the glad old days when it was merely
a matter of floating a quarterly loan.
Determined to live up to its old ideal,
“the cultivation of an enlightened and self-
reliant community,” the N.S.W. no-Labor
party is legalising tin-hare gambling again.
So now the worker will be able to lose half
his wages on the State lottery and the other
half on the tin-hare, and when he goes home
“Want your tin-hare back, Gosling? Then
you shall have it!”
“But can’t I have the fruit machine, too?”
broke his emancipation from the brutal
capitalist will be complete. Judge Swindell,
who introduced the tin-hare from the ILS.A.,
says the revival of betting op “the poor
man’s sport” will “give a lot of employ-
ment.” It was thought that Australia had
lost this eminent jurist to South Africa; but
where the caucus is there shall the Swindells
be gathered together.
By 22 votes to 6 Yic. Uppish House
amended the Unemployment Relief Bill by
bringing relief-work pay below the basic
wage and recasting the super-income tax
schedule. The rates it proposes range from
525. a week (48 hours) for married men
and 3Gs. for unmarried men to 245. in the
case of youths under 21. The altered tax scale
will slightly increase the burden on the middle
class. The Hogans don’t object to that,
but they will fight the wage modifications.
The Council has found an unexpected
ally in the “Age,” which usually supports
the Government and is waging a cam-
paign against sweating. The Syme organ
holds that operations conducted for profit,
which are rightly regulated by industrial
laws, are quite different from relief works
set going out of taxes specially levied to
ward off starvation.
“Woolgrowers are perturbed at. the possibility of
the Japanese transferring much of their woolbuying
activity to South Africa. The Japanese object par-
ticularly to customs duties designed to shift small
industries like the making of buttons from Japan
to Australia.”
AUSTRALIA: “Hey, mate, what’s the garnet
Goin’ to spend your money with the
opposition?”
JAPAN: “Well, anyway, he does give a chap
a hit of counter-lunch in with the beer
he buys.”
Friends of humanity will have to give
earnest consideration to the relations be-
tween Labor councils and the like and Labor
members. In South Aus. a Labor Council ex-
pelled nearly all the State and Federal Labor
members for supporting the Premiers’ plan,
as the Federal Government, the Vic., Queens-
land, Westralian and Tas. Labor parties,
and the Federal Labor organisation are
doing—the president of the Federal organ-
isation has ruled that “the plan does not
conflict with the policy of the Labor party.”
The expelled members appealed by letter to
the annual conference, which ratified the
sentence and refused them a hearing. Then
it passed the subjoined resolutions (along
with others demanding that banking should
be “nationalised,” and that money owed to
the State Bank by unemployed house-buyers
should be “written off”) :
The Conference or Council shall have full power to
expel any member and to decide that any member
shall be withdrawn from a Ministry.... A demand
shall be made to members of Parliament who owed sus-
tentation fees (3 p.c. of their salaries) on 17/7/’3l.
Should the demand be not complied with, the
matter be put in a solicitor’s hands.
Do esn’t this all amount to a revival of the
slave trade?
Stopgap Senator Kpeebone (S.A.) was a
delegate to the Federal A.L.P. conference
at which the Westralian Kenneally' ruled, as
president, that support for the Premiers’
plan was consistent with loyalty to “the
movement.” The same Kneebone was chair-
man of the State AiL.P. conference at which
all S. Aus. supporters of the Premiers’ plan
were found guilty of being traitors to “the
movement” when the prosecution had had its
say. In effect, Ivneebone has assisted at the
expulsion, without a hearing, of the men
who gave him his well-paid nominee joh (Pre-
mier Hill and his followers)a and of the
Senators who conducted him into the Cham-
ber and beside whom he sits. Perhaps the
gentleman would be easier in his mind if the
expelled expelled him.
It is characteristic of Norbert Keenan
that he should have resigned as Westralian
Chief Secretary because of a difference of
Opinion with the Premier —his grievance was
that Mitchell had not consulted his Colleagues
before negotiating with the Commonwealth
Bank for the absorption of the State Sav-
ings Bank. Over 20 years ago, when Keenan
was Attorney-General in the Moore 'Gov-
ernment, he terminated his connection
with it quite as abruptly, giving as his rea-
son that he was not in accord with several
Ministerial acts and omissions. He further
decided not to re-contest his goldfields seat
(which consequently fell to “Texas” Green,'
now Federal P.M.G.), and stayed out of
polities until last year. Keenan was always
a masterful person with strong views’ but
as a leading lawyer and' an incisive debater
he will leave a place in the Mitchell team
not easy to fill.
The R.A.N. now has the distinction of
being the only white fleet that hasn’t had a
strike. The Chilean navy indulged in one
just before the R;N. stopped work over its
cuts in pay. The French and U.S.A. navies
have had several on points of discipline, and
the Russians and Germans celebrated their
retirement from the war with full-dress
mutinies. It sayg a lot for the peace-time
discipline of the R.A.N. that it not only
didn’t strike against the Scullin pay
cuts but didn’t even complain loudly
enough for the man-in-the-street to hear.
Few civilians know that all ranks and rat-
ings were brought down 20 per cent, without
a moment’s warning. In the case of a
rating on 7s. a day that is equivalent _to
10s. 6d. a week —a. heavy slug for a married
man. And a good many of them are mar-
ried.
The alleged hard-drinking Australian got
a nasty knock at the “annual drive” of
the Vic. Prohibition League, held at Ben-
digo, when Rev. Roberts said that the annual
local liquor bill is £5 12s. per inhabitant,
including the girl baby. Really the amount
expended on drink, including the bottle and
the label and the cork, is more like* 10s. per
inhabitant per year, if it amounts to that.
The rest goes to the Government as customs,
excise and sales taxes, license fees, etc. If
Australia adopted prohibition it would lose
about £11,000,000 a year in customs and
excise revenue alone. Then it would spend
as much in the endless and unsatisfactory
civil war against illicit grog. When Par-
liament makes a new crime, and the crimi-
nal population—drink-makers and drink-
consumers—is about 40 per cent, of the voting
community, and the new bootlegging crime
represents money and a sort of adventure,
and doesn’t involve popular execration such
as the white slaver gets, the path of reform
is uphill.
The wheat-farmer is provided. with a
sixpenny bonus on his next season’s harvest;
but the wool-cockies still suffer from their
supposed connection with the bloated run-
holder. These men don’t want bonuses bor-
rowed from banks, which merely maintain
the industry on a false foundation; they
want present costs reduced so that they can
honestly pay them. But the union boss has
the politician under his thumb, and until
the wretched creature can escape there isn’t
much hope. Wool carriage on a nine-ton
truck of wool is now over £4O for 300 miles,
double what it was in 1909, though the price
of wool is actually less.
Vic. motor registration fees for 1930-31
reached £1,023,000, as compared with
£1,100,000 in 1929-30. It is anticipated that
the total for the current financial year will
be slightly under the million mark. The
Cockles in the Assembly are putting up a
fight against the Government’s proposal to
collar just on £200,000 of motor revenue
which now goes to the Country Roads Board :
but the scheme is likely to be accepted as
a temporary expedient.
J.B.: “Come on! We’ve (jot, to take to the
road.”
Extracts from an informative article by
Lothrop Stoddard m “Harper’s”:—-
In New South Wales the State Labor party is
dominated by the radical Melbourne unions, which
elected Mr. Lang, the Left Wing candidate, on the
slogan; “Work for all; restoration ■of full salaries ;
repudiation of the Niemeyer agreement.”
Labor leaders outside N.S.W. rallied to the
Federal Government and condemned Mr*. Lang’s
policy. But the Melbourne radicals, still control
their State, and have recently announced a pro-
gramme which would amount to little short of a
Communist revolution.
The thought of Hogan sponsoring a Com-
munist rising is one to: hug in the dark hours
before the" dole.


SOCIETY
znd it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
THE WORLD’S GREAT LOSS.
“What a (hie) beautiful barmaid sup-poiled!”
“Jeames”: Sydney “Telegraph” asserts
that “the late Lord Northcliffe’s greatest
thrill in _ Australia was when he saw the
platypus.” He told me that he got his
greatest thrill from the spectacle of a two-
headed snake in a glass-jar at The Bulletin
office. He had read about the snake in the
Abo. section, and when Arthur Adams, then
of the “Sun,” brought him to the office
the first thing he clamored for was a sight
of the freak. It gave him profound satis-
faction. I was told he had always been inter-
ested in dumb creatures, but there was some-
thing pathological about his absorption when
he was in Sydney, and it may have been a
symptom of the trouble which eventually
killed him. For instance, he much preferred
anirnals to humans as a subier* conver-
sation. But then a great French ecclesias-
tic who never suffered from Northcliffe’s
malady said: “The more I see of men the
more I respect dogs.”
* *' * #
“Bill Nye”: There was a Bret Hartean
flavor about a Sydney court case the other
day, when a heathen Chinee named Choy Fei
was committed for trial on a charge of double-
crossing a fellow-countryman. The latter
was stoker on a Sino-Australian liner, and
for what he believed was valuable considera-
tion handed over to his friend a consign-
ment of imported goods which included 50
dozen live tortoises. It is alleged that when
the seller endeavored to realise on the con-
sideration tendered him it turned out to be
a German 100-mark note of the inflation
vintage, whereupon he called the law of the
foreign devils to his assistance. What has
become of the 50 dozen tortoises is not quite
clear. Possibly they have been parked at
the quarantine station on North Head.
* * $ *
“Sixenate”: The torch of love was lighted
in the bosom of an Adelaide man when he
was told that a lady of his acquaintance
had won a first prize in Tatt.’s,, and, the
maiden being- willing, they were married out
of hand. Eight days later when the bride-
groom broached the subject of a little cash
he learnt that the information upon -which
he had acted so' precipitately was bogus,
wdiereat his affection faded away and him-
self with it. The Irish sweep has had a more
pathetic romance. A farmer who had specu-
lated in several tickets gave one away to
a servant girl, and getting early news that
it had won a big prize he lost no time in
leading her to the altar. The shock came
when he discovered that she had sold the
ticket to' the postman. N.S.W.’s most tragi-
cal married-for-money tale was revealed in
the Divorce Court some years ago. Two
people cutting a dash in the hopes of a
rich- marriage met, and, each thinking that
the other had the requisite shekels, married.
When they woke up the next morning they
found that their mutual resources amounted
to exactly threepence-halfpenny.
* * *
“Jungor”: The late Hugh Mahon, though
he never sat in Parliament except as a
Labor member, didn’t enter upon his first
cajmpaign as one. In which connection J.
W. Kirwan, now President of the West-
ralian Leg. Council, used to tell a good
story. In 1901 Kirwan and Mahon decided
to nominate for the Kalgoorlie and Cool-
gardie divisions respectively. As each was
running an influential newspaper each could
count on the other’s support, and there was
a mutual understanding that neither was to
bow the knee to' Labor, which was just then
beginning to realise and assert its strength
on the goldfields. When Mahon departed
on his back-country electioneering tour he
found the unions everywhere holding a pistol
at his head and threatening to run a man
against him if he held out. At Kalgoorlie
things were moving in much the same direc-
tion, a threat being made to import a Broken
Hill stalwart to carry the Labor flag. The
two editors met again a week before nomi-
nation day. “Y'ou’d better reconsider
things,” counselled Mahon; “I hear they’re
bringing over Ferguson to nominate against
you.” “And how about you?” was the
natural retort, “Oh,” said Mahon, airily,
“I signed the Labor pledge yesterday.” As
it happened, Ferguson’s services were not
requisitioned, and each editor found himself
at the top of the poll. But Mahon con-
tinued to represent Coolgardie as long as
the division lasted, whereas Kirwan went
down to a Labor man at the next election.
“R.N.”: “Matelot” wasn’t wholly right in
saying (B. 9/9/’3l) that no colored person
has served in the R.A.N. One did—for 24
hours. It came about this way. After the
war a number of British ratings were posted
to H.M.A.S. Australia. The R.N. has
never objected to negroes; one of its best
war-time p.o.’s was as black as night—a
member of the celebrated Williams family,
several of whose menfolk served with dis-
tinction. So the Australia was issued with
THE REALIST.
“Ooh, you should just hear my new lad recite! He can make even
blank verse sound lovely!”.
“Well, have it your own way—but give me a lad who can make
even a blank cheque look lovely.”
a black p.o. The admiral, who knew the
Commonwealth, had the'man brought before
him, and, after complimenting him on his
work and character, explained that he
W'ouldn’t do. A few hours later the p.o. was
back in the lI.N. It should be added that
there had been no complaints from the Aus-
sies. They probably would no more have
objected to him than the Diggers objected
to the abos. who served in the A.I.F.
“Sol M.”: The Tuckerman
divorce case was the means of
dragging to light the skeleton of
an old problem, and the bony
framework is still lying around
unsolved. Counsel asked the
Judge to direct the jury that
a man wasn’t entitled to spank
or slap or wallop his wife under
any provocation whatsoever,
and his Honor side-stepped or
dodged, in a manner of speak-
ing. His attitude, so far as it
could be congealed into definite
shape, 1 was that if the lady gave
a certain amount of provoca-
tion the gentleman might whale
her to a certain extent. But
the matter of quantity or mea-
surement was left unsettled. If
the wife provokes the husband
to the extent of a pint is he
justified in beating her a bushel
and a half? And should the
event take place in the presence
of witnesses to ensure fair play,
or as a precaution against short
weight ?
* * *
“Letters _ of Marque” : The
final curtain fell last week on
what was probably the best
naval effort put up by Fritz
during the Great War—the
very successful cruise of the
raider Wolf and her safe return
through a cordon of enemies
anxiously looking for her. The
Wolf was allotted to France
when the German mercantile
fleet was cut up among the
Allies; she was transferred to
the Italian flag, and rechrist-
ened the Antinous; last week
the news came through that she
had gone to the breaker’s yards
in Italy. Australia will have
a lively memory of her activi-
ties. Among the locally-owned
ships she gathered in were the
B.P. steamer Makambo and the
Huddart Parker liner Wim-
mera; and the Cumberland,
with a valuable cargo of wool,
was sunk by one of the raider’s
mines on the N.S.W. coast
while on the way to' Europe.
ij: if:
“Yacko”: The scene of the gold rush
on Kangaroo Island (S.A.) is within a few
miles of the place where the island’s very
first industry was started. That dates back
to' 1804, when the Yanks built the 35-ton
schooner Independence at American River,
a few miles nearer the mouth of the inlet.
The site of the find, made by J. Jensen,
is within half a mile of the American River
township. Claims have been pegged for
miles; they include the ground on which
a fish cannery (long defunct) stood in the
’nineties. Stories are being revived of gold
having been struck on the island in the
old days, and of a cache of Joe Cole-
man, the murderer of Constable Ring. A
tradition still lingers of some rich gold-
bearing ballast found in Coleman’s cutter
after he was hanged.
* * * *
“Come Back” : Shareholders in the Jabez
Balfour companies, which came a stupendous
thud nearly 40 years ago, are getting some-
thing after their long wait —such of them
as are still alive, at least, and the heirs of
those who have
died. After the
smash a few of the
holders formed a
realisation c o m-
mittee, and fo r
years they care-
fully nursed what
assets were left.
The last of them,
the Hotel Cecil,
was sold the other
day, and there is
now to be a distri-
bution of ss. per
share. Moral:
Never destroy scrip
or vouchers for
value, however
hopeless they may
seem. Even a
tote-ticket on a
losing horse
shouldn’t he torn
up until it is quite
clear there is no
chance of a pro-
test.
❖ #
“H o m f r c y
Beale” : Ho w
many natives of
N. S. Wales know
that their country
was the first in the
world to adopt a
regular system of
prep a y m e n t
of postage dues by
stamps? I haven’t
consulted all the
records, but J. W.
Ki 11 o says it’s
right. Private
couriers of seven-
tee h t h - century
Paris introduced a
system of postage
stamps, but it
died early of mal-
nutrition. Sardinia
made a feeble ges-
ture iu the same
direction in 1818
with what is classi-
fied in surviving
postal annals as a
“postage 1a b e 1,”
but this, too, soon
petered out. N. S. Wales in 1838 intro-
duced stamped covers at Is. 3d. per dozen,
valid within the metropolitan boundaries.
As the local P.O. was only 10 years old at
the time there must have been a virile spirit
behind the innovation.
* * * *
“Jeames”: The “Pink ’Un” has died after
a long, wasting illness. A couple of decades
ago the Empire supported three weeklies
with _ ribald jests on the front page and
sporting news and the gossip of the clubs
inside—Bob Sievier’s “Winning Post, 5 ’ Edgar
Wallace’s “Man About Town” and John
Corlett’s “Pink. ’Un.” The last-named, of
which the others were imitations, had at
least one humorist of genius on its staff—
“ Pitcher,” author of “Gal’s Gossip” and
“Houndsditch, Day by Day.” There wasn’t
a club in the Empire that failed to sub-
scribe to the “Pink ’Un” in Ed. Vll.’s day.
It began to disintegrate when iCorlett died
and a young man who knew more about
race-riding than journalism bought it. The
staff resigned practically in a body—as a
wit of the period remarked, “lie’s got the
cage, but the singing-birds have flown.” In
any event it couldn’t have survived. It
expressed a London that ended with the
World War —an intimate place, with a little
all-British sporting society whose members
knew one another’s histories and scandals
like the inhabitants of a remote village.
* * * *
“Patent Log”: That yarn of the goldfields
mantraps (B. 16/9/’3l) recalls one set on
the Old Gira, Papua, by Klondyke, a flat-
footed Swedish miner, who had had stuff
pinched by runaway carriers. Klondyke’s
hut was on the hillside, high above his claim
in the bed of the ravine. As his stores were
vanishing rapidly, he took measures, and when
the warden called and pushed open the door
of the hut —one did not stand on ceremony
in those days—he got the shock of his life.
Klondyke came clambering up the hill exult-
ing in the thought that he had got a bite.
His mood changed when he found a somewhat
dazed but indignant mining magistrate sit-
ting in the doorway and feeling the top of
his head. Klondyke had rigged a grindstone
as a booby-trap over his door, a string to
a tin-can down in the claim advising him
that the trap had been sprung. The matter
took a lot of explaining; and in the end
the warden found that Klondyke had pegged
off too much ground, and docked him a
quarter of an acre.
$ s!c jjc :\z
“Penologist”: A Sydney paper calls the
decrease in juvenile delinquency, as shown by
the records of the children’s courts, “a para-
dox of the depression.” “Logical sequence”
would have been better. Easy money does
as much as any one factor to create child
offenders, and there was plenty of it about
before the slump. The appetite for luxuries—
movies, starting-price bets, joy-rides to surf
beaches —grows by what it feeds on, and the
pleasure-crazed kid takes to borrowing or
stealing. In the past six months thousands
of youngsters have had to go off the silver
standard,. so to speak, and scratch hard to
keep on a copper one. They collect firewood
in billycarts, spend Saturdays and Sundays
caddying at golf links, run messages and so
on, and are kept so busy that they have no
time to get into mischief. Their dads are
passing through a similar period of stress,
aud are reacting to it in the same way. The
figures for most forms of adult crime are
smaller now than they were when Australia
had millions of borrowed money to blew.
PRESS PEPPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If there is any man who revels in the criticism
of the press, it is the Premier of New South Wales.”
— Mr. Concannon in the Leg. Council,
There are few politicians to power we raise
But are greedy for honor and avid of praise.
At newspaper strictures they squirm and
they snort,
But Lang isn’t one of that sensitive sort.
He revels in censure; he never cuts loose
At animadversions or even abuse.
To him all the brickbats that editors chuck
Are as water that slides off the back of a
duck.
Where others might frown there’s a smile on
his phiz
As he reads what a menace and terror he is.
You may paint him as bad and as black as
you like,
And he won’t get what’s vulgarly known as
the spike.
You may call him a boil on the neck of the
State
With no apprehension the simile ’ll grate.
You may liken our Premier in rhetoric that
flogs
To the wildest of bulls or the maddest of
dogs,
And he won’t bat an eyelash or bother a
rap,
Impervious and eke imperturbable chap.
There’s never cartoon or lampoon that can
sting
A subject who revels in that sort of thing.
Serenely impassive he’ll go on his way
Unheeding what prejudiced critics may say.
.Reminders concerning a bank that he broke
He merely regards as an excellent joke.
He learns with a twinkle, not wrath, in his
eyes
That to office he won on a tissue of lies.
In short, I suspect, if you made it your biz
To ask what his favorite condiment is,
Red pepper, press pepper, the first would be
placed,
And it can’t be too pungent or hot for his
taste.
When the writers of leaders are rocking it
in,
The fiercest invective he greets with a grin.
And if, some fine morning, you waken to find
Your Government ads. are to others assigned,
The two circumstances you needn’t connect
As wallop and counter, as cause and effect.
No personal ire could such action dictate:
’Tis simply and solely the good of the State.
For newspaper buffets ne’er caused him a
pang,
He revels therein, does our amiable Lang.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Kerys”: Before Sydney’s. La Perotise
was as populous as it is nowadays,
we went out there on a wild-flower
expedition, and encountered in our ramble
an individual who warned us to be-
ware of snakes. In the evening the same
man, carrying a heavy sack, boarded the
tram. He began a fierce argument with
another passenger. Both had evidently
stopped a few, but out of the turmoil we
gathered that our acquaintance claimed to
have had a highly successful day’s snake-
gathering, while his friend threw doubts on
the quality of his harvest. We were ail eye-
ing the animated sack perturbedly when the
owner suddenly arose, and, shouting that he
would prove his contention, cut the string
and began to shake the contents on the floor.
In the pandemonium that followed a stout
gentleman plunged bodily through the door-
way and landed on the track; the other pas-
sengers, with oaths or shrieks, stood on the
seats until the driver brought the tram to
a standstill. In two seconds the only occu-
pants were the snake-collector and his speci-
mens, and despite his assurances that he had
recaptured the lot the tram started again
with no passenger but himself. We heard later
that even the police, who interviewed the
cause of the commotion at the terminus,
handled the situation and the offender very
gingerly.
GUESS WHO THIS WAS?
WIFE: “Good heavens! Here’s a par. about a man who drank nearly a pint of petrol
in mistake for sodawater!”
HUBBY: “Good heavens! What a beastly thirst for power!”
“Mells”: Bishop Thomas, of Willochra
(S.A.), a singularly temperate temperance
reformer, suggests that, among other things,
“the abolition of the pernicious custom of
‘shouting’ drinks” would be a step in the
right direction. Probably it would, but the
practice is exemplified in so many other
social gestures that it may be regarded as
ineradicable, part of the make-up of the
average citizen, as it were. The late Arch-
bishop Riley, of Perth, started an anti-
shouting league as soon as he arrived in
his diocese, fresh from England, but it
didn’t live long enough to accomplish any-
thing. Years later I saw his Grace and
a Supreme Court Judge dining together on
the ' Perth-Kalgoorlie express, and couldn t
"’’possibly
the j U( jg e returned the shout at breakfast
nex t morning. And if Bishop Thomas and
a brother-prelate were travelling together
in a tram or joining one another in a cup
of tea at a railway refreshment-room it is
long odds that one or other would pay the
joint reckoning. Certainly shouting dunks
leads to evils that shouting tea does*rt but
the general principle is so well established
that it would take a cataclysm to interfere
with it * ... *
“Cosmos”: In Sydney suburbs with con-
Crete speedways you can see hordes of small
boys on roller-skates. They are getting
something from the £4,000,000 that was
spent by the Main Roads Board last year.
But for the slump, which inspired the Lang
policy of default, which caused the Com-
monwealtli to hold back a quarter of a million
sterling from the roads as a set-off against
Lang’s indebtedness, Sydneyites would pro-
bably have seen hordes of push-bikers before
long. In European cities like Amsterdam
which have billiard-table road-surfaces work-
ers of both sexes and all grades pedal into
toil and home again in mass formation. An
essential is that the road surfaces shall be
good all the way. Few push-bike in or
near Sydney, though the climate is ideal
most of the year, because a stretch of road-
way that would do credit to the West End
of London is liable to be succeeded, after
a m ii e or so, by a stretch that would dis-
credit ,Cow Flat. Nor are things likely
to be different. In the words of J. C. Wat-
son, president o'f the N.R.M.A., “there won’t
even be enough funds for the maintenance
0 f the State’s main roads this year.” A
pity. Pnsh-biking, which is dirt cheap as
well as healthful, would suit the present
finances of Australia. And bike-building is
a local industry.
* * * * '
“Jean Rougier”: The “Woman’s Mirror”
published the other day a reproduction of an
old English pub sign, “The Crooked Billet’
(the billet consists of a twisty-looking chunk
of firewood), adding that this particu-
lar name, for a tavern was once frequently
met with in the Old Country. I fancy it was
mostly in the north of England; it occurs
several times in the works of that inimitable
sporting writer Surtees, who was a Durham
man. It was imported to Australia, too, in
the early days, along with such quaint and
much-argued-over signs as “The Bull and
Mouth” and dozens of others. In fact, the
tavern nearest The Bulletin office origi-
nally bore the very same name, or the first
licensed house erected on the site bore it.
There is still material for history and date-
fixing in pub signs, and there would be
much more if the original names had been
adhered to, which unfortunately is seldom
the case.
* * . * . *.
“Canal”: The Scottish delegation is due
in December, and the Westralians have pre-
pared an itinerary that ought to appeal to
it. At least, these items should:—
Dec. 10—Arrive Fremantle. Afternoon free,
Dec. 13— free,
* * * *
“Iquique” : That reference to Government
forces attacking the rebellious Chilean navy
(B. 16/9/’3l) reminds me that history has
been repeating itself once more; the same
thing happened just 40 years ago. When the
Congressists rose against Balmaceda in 1891
the navy joined them, and amused itself by
bombarding Valparaiso and other ports while
the longshore Government looked helplessly
on. However, the rebels had reckoned without
the Almirante Cochrane, which had left
Armstrong’s yards for Chile with a British
crew before the rebellion broke out. She
was of a type known as the torpedoboat-
catcher, to which Australia’s own Karrakatta
and Boomerang belonged; it was reckoned
marvellously speedy then, though long since
obsolete. The Cochrane reached Valparaiso
unheralded, and was handed over to the Gov-
eminent. A few nights later she sneaked
down the coast to Calderas Bay and there
torpedoed at anchor the crack ship of the
navy, the Blanco Eucalada. This was the
first effective use ever made of a Whitehead
torpedo in warfare, though some years before
11.M.5. Shah fired one abortively in her
action with the Peruvian cruiser Huascar.
:|i * * *
“Mudros” : A man who was fined in Adel-
aide recently for claiming to be a lieut.-colonel
with a string of decorations had all the
markings of his tribe. He first introduced
himself to South Australia as a captain with
the M.C. and
D.C.M., but
presently pro-
moted himself,
first to major
and then to
lieut.-colonel. It
was when he
added M.V.O. to
his list of deco-
rations that
suspicion was
aroused. This
sort of impostor
never knows
when to stop. I
can recall a pri-
vate in a Brit-
ish line regi-
me n t who
swanked it suc-
cessfully for a
week or so in
Bournemouth in
’l7 as “Captain
Trevor, M.C.,
son of Lo r d
Tre v o r.” He
occupied a suite
of rooms at a
leading hotel,
and entertained
lavishly on tick;
it was only
when he pre-
sented himself
'vyith a D.S.O.
that his mas-
querade came to
an ignominious
end. Then
there was the.
young Austra-
lian p rivate
who, while in
hospital in Eng-
land, acquired
a Y.C. A letter
from H.Q.
acquainting him
of his good for-
tune he some-
how mislaid,
but his roman-
tic story won
for him the
heart of a rich
society girl and
the front page
of the “.Daily
Mail.” It also’ secured liim a court-
martial, at which he was defended by an
English K.C. and acquitted. But he was
soon at his old games again, and his career
ended disastrously.
* *
“Old Timer”: Dr. Stewart McKay, lectur-
ing from 2BL last week, said
If we are going to reintroduce the horse to pull
heavy loads up the hills of Sydney, then we must give
the horse a fair deal, and insist that certain steep
streets shall be so prepared that he will, be able to
get a surface on which to plant his feet without
slipping.
If it could be done the hansom might make
a sensational come-back in Sydney. With
oaten hay at £6 a ton and other classes of
feed at proportionately low levels, a horse
could be kept in hard condition at about
17s. 6d. a week. Hansoms didn’t go out
because of their lack of speed or odd appear-
ance, but because the better the streets were
made for cars the more horses they threw.
Most taxi-drivers are on the bread-iine now
because, with petrol at 2s. Id. and other
expenses in proportion, they can’t charge less
than 2s. for a mile trip, and there isn’t one
Sydneyite in 50 who can afford the luxury.
A hansom could do it for a shilling. Apropos,
it cost the same in pre-war days, when forage
was at about its present figure, to travel By
cab from Macquarie-street to Point Piper
as it now does to travel by the average taxi
from Macquarie-street to Potts Point, viz.,
4s. fid,
“Buna”: The imminent embargo on M.L.
amateur mountaineers will be felt most
keenly by the holiday-makers who go out
from New Plymouth intent on reaching the
summit of Egmont (Taranaki). Egmont,
second in height of the North Island peaks,
though called a “lady’s mountain” has
a sinister death-roll. On a sunny morn-
ing its white cone has an irresistible
fascination for the adventurous, who are
liable to start on summer climbs in light
attire and even in thin and high-heeled shoes.
But, like Ruapehu, Egmont is apt to suddenly
wrap himself in impenetrable mist, and the
irresponsible climber often has to choose
between risking a fall into oi\e of the
tremendous gorges or staying on the peak
until a search party arrives. The last double
fatality there was due to an inexperienced
climber slipping on the ice and dragging
over a precipice a well-known alpinist name!
Ambury, who left his party and tried to stay
the other’s swift descent. Egmont in the
winter is an expert’s job.
* * * *
“F.F.”: In all the years it has been before
the public the cinema hasn’t developed a
social sense. It isn’t for lack of trying; some
of the big talkie houses have club rooms and
“eastern” lounges more exotically splendid
than the theatre ever dreamt of.. I attribute
it to the interval—beg pardon, intermission.
In theatrical times there wasn’t a black-
guard rush for tbe doors as soon as the cur-
tain fell. Most people stayed where they
were, listened to the orchestra, nodded to
friends, even visited them and studied the
elaborate programmes. A picture theatre
is a good place to get out of during an
“intermission,” if only to escape being
stunned by one of the boys who rush round
with trays of chocolates and ices. It is
hard to see friends; the buildings are too
vast. There aren’t any programmes, and if
there were it would be impossible to read
them, as the lights go down almost imme-
diately to allow advts. to be forced on the
spectator's —an outrage that was only perpe-
trated on the curtains of the humblest theatres.
The absence of programmes injures the talkies
in other ways. How programmes added
to the glamor of the drama! “War Corres-
pondent’s Tent in the Sudan” (“The Light
that Failed”) ; “Combes Wharf and Dock
House on the Thames” (“The Silver King”)
—what color such captions gave to enter-
tainments! Thousands of theatregoers col-
lected programmes, with the result that they
COMPLETE EVIDENCE.
‘How d’you manage to get hold of that wonderful costume,
Snowdrop?”
“Honestly, boy—and if you don’t believe me I’ll show you the
summons.”
became permanent advts. of plays, performers
and managements. But their principal func-
tion was to provoke discussion and arouse
interest in the characters and their surround-
ings. They had a lot to do with making
theatre-parties the matey affairs they were.
Who ever hears of a cheery talkie-party?
“Pom”: Consider the relation of Gres-
ham’s Law —the most reliable and widely
applicable generalisation that was ever
made—to the building trade. A quarter of
a century ago Sydney had many dignified
and solidly-built houses, also miles of shacks.
Most of the shacks are with us still; most of
the beautiful houses are gone. Some of those
that have not gone, such as Macleay House,
in Elizabeth Bay, are empty and falling into
disrepair; others, such as Burdekm House,
in Macquarie-street, are being put to uses
for which they were not designed; and all
survive on sufferance.- The departure of
a few is, of course, due to bad luck. For
example, the Methodist church in North
Sydney which has been demolished to make
way for a bridge approach, and of which a
well-known architect wrote recently: “It
seems deplorable that we should allow sjjch
beautiful architecture to be ruthlesslv swept
away.” But 95 per cent, go because bad
buildings always drive out good. You can
see it even in tradition-loving London, where
Dorchester House, Grosvenor House, Devon-
shire House and the lovely Adelphi have been
pulled down to make way for sky-scraping
flats. The explanation, of course, is that
the good buildings occupy the good sites—
as the pugs say, “the bigger they are the
harder they fall.”
* * * *
“Co'lumba”: In suggesting that the north-
erner generally despises the southerner, and
quoting Australia as a country where the
reverse is the case, “Nordic” (B. 23/9/ 31)
has got things wrong. The theory, sup-
ported by much evidence, is /hat _ proximity
to the equator argues racial inferiority, and
it isn’t confined to the northern hemisphere.
If “Nordic” goes over his examples again
he will find that Melbourne’s poor opinion
of Sydneyites and Mao'riland’s of Austra-
lians in general conform to the real rule.
* * $ *
“Ibn el Issar”: The tragedy of the child
lost in the Australian bush (B. 16/9/ 31)
is keen enough. Worse still was the case
of those hundreds of European children who
vanished from the ken of their parents in
the Indian Mutiny and could never be iden-
tified again, even in instances where the
parents survived. A little-known chapter in
the story of the Mutiny is the devotion of
humble natives, especially the ayahs, to the
families thev served. In many cases where
their employers were murdered the_ ayahs
escaped to their villages with their tiny
charges—then, as now, children "were sent
out of India young—or otherwise found
means of keeping them in safety until the
storm blew over. When the ayahs survived,
it was usually possible to identify the chil-
dren. But many were given up to the
authorities after the Mutiny whose relatives
could not be traced. They spoke nothing but
Hindustani, and inquiries as to names
brought no reply but Johnny Baba unrl
the like, learned from the ayahs The East
India Co. and its successors did well by
these waifs, and many a “Mutiny baby rose
high in the world in later days.,
WHEN COUNTER-LUNCH IS ON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“After all, a pub’s a brighter place when counter.
lunch is on.”— Bulletin 16/9/81.
There’s lots of less alluring spots
Than where you wet your lips
With malt and hops in foaming pots
And °Toe in measured nips.
But victuals add one touch of grace
That’s lacking when they’re gone;
There’s more content on every face,
The brightest bar’s a brighter place
When counter-lunch is on.
’Tis fine to see the sausage-rolls
Upon the counter thrown,
Admission that the thirstiest souls
Can’t live by beer alone.
Sheep’s pickled feet are goodly grub
To munch with Tooth or Swan,
Or settle down your rum-and-shrub.
The humblest inn’s a cheerier pub
When counter-lunch is on. .
The salty herring livens trade
For Bungs who know their biz;
A thoroughly effective aid
To extra pints it is.
The shyly succulent sardine
Attention claims anon.
The radish red, the lettuce green,
Contribute color to the scene
When counter-lunch is on.
And when beyond the pale I’m hurled
To my eternal rest,
I think a Pagan afterworld
Will somehow suit me best. .
Though saintly souls the notion jars,
I crave no crown to don.
Beyond the faintest, farthest stars
I hope to' breast Valhalla’s bars
When counter-lunch is on.
N.s.W.
MIDFORD.


■VI
*5
V
REDUCED COSTS are reflected by a Reduced Tariff
—but Quality and Service are maintained at the
same world-famous “Australia” standard.
Single Room . . . 10/6 per day
Double Room 20/- „ „
Single Room, with private bath and toilet, 17/6
per day; Double Room, with private bath and
toilet, from 30/- per day.
Breakfast, 2/- and 3/6, and a la carte.
Luncheon and Dinner, a la carte. Minimum, 4/-
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-
Telcgraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.-
NEW
Room
Only
RATES ■*
The
Australia
Hotel
SYDNEY
Reduced Tariff
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some October birthdays:—
Mrs. Doris Booth (author of “Mountains, Gold and
Cannibals”), on Ist; J. “Garry” Roberts (of-Kallista,
Vie.), 71, R. D. Boys (Chief Librarian of Melb.
Public Library), 65, and Chas. P. Smith (“West
Australian”), 52, on 3rd; Justice Lowe (Vic.), 51,
and R. L. Curthoys (editor of Melb. “Argus”), 39,
on 4th; knight John Grice (Melb.), 81, and knight
N. C. Lockyer (formerly Comptroller-Gen. of Cus-
toms), 76, on 6th; Justice Ferguson (N.S.W.), 70,
on 7th; Bishop Crotty (Bathurst), 45, on 9th; poet
Dr. C. H. Souter (Adel.), 67, on 11th; H. C. Budge
(Ma State Governor’s official secretary), 58, on 12th;
novelist Jack McLaren, 44, on 13th; Prof. Alcock
(Q.), 45, and Stanley Addison (Melb. Uni.),
51, on 14th; knight Langdon Bonython (Adel.),
83, N. G. Bell (ex-Commonwealth Railway
Commissioner), 71, and Dr. Darnell Smith
(Syd. Botanic Gardens), 63, on 15th; Federal Statis-
tician C. H. Wickens, 59, on 16th; Tom Mutch
(formerly N.S.W. Minister of Education), 46, on
17th; S. Aus. Minister Jim Jelley, 58, N.S.W. geo-
logist E. C. Andrews, 61, and Lionel Lindsay, 57,
on 18th; Frank Downer (Adel.), 68, on 19th; Bishop
Thomas (Willochra), 50, and Justice Napier (S. Aus.),
49, on 24th; Dr. Richard Arthur, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), 66,
and W.A. ex-Minister McCallum, 53, on 25th; Arch-
bishop Sharp (Brisbane), 66, and Speck’s former
Premier Elliott Lewis, 73, on 27th; Vic. Senator
Bob Elliott, 46, on 28th; Roland Green, M.H.R., 46,
on 29th; Justice James (N.S.W.), 65, on 30th;
Hubert Wilkins, 43, and Prof. Wadham (Melb.), 40,
on 31st.
Josiah Symon, K.C., who was 85 last
Sunday, is the doyen of the eight surviving
members o’f the Federal Convention of 1897-
98 ; the others are Paddy Glynn (S. Aus.),
Joe Carruthers (N.S.W.), Gov.-Gen. Isaacs,
John Quick and Alec Peacock (Vic.),
Elliott Lewis (Speck) and Walter James
(W.A'.). Tom Glassey, of Brisbane, who
sat in the original Senate with Symon, is
the oldest living member of the first Com-
monwealth Parliament. Glassey was born
in Ireland 87 years ago'.
The gentlemen who scoff at the idea of
helping an industry because it’s tiny might
ask for a few particulars about Nestles.
Nestles began in a shed in Switzerland,
where they used a process of condensing the
milk of a few goats; and for years it was
believed that you couldn’t make condensed
milk anywhere else, because the animals had
to be yodelled to. But Nestles presently
decided that it was absurd to cart milk to
a cow-bail, so factories were started in Aus-
tralia ; next they made a milk chocolate;
then one line after another was added until
every conceivable line of chocolates was
produced; and from that, they went on to
other 'foodstuffs. Lately, since most con-
FRANK B. SPENCER.
cerns said that this was a good time not
to spend money, Frank B. Spencer, general
manager of the Australasian Co., decided
that this was a good time for his co. to get
very busy; so with great energy he launched
a selling campaign. There are still some
people in the business who think he ought
to see a doctor; but they haven’t seen his
figures.
Six of the ten members of Maoriland’s
coalition Cabinet are or have been farmers—
Forbes (Prime Minister), Coates (Works),
Ransom (Lands). Cobbe (Justice). Jones
(Agriculture) and Hamilton (P.M.G.).
Apirana Ngata, who retains Native Affairs,
was educated as a lawyer, but prefers sheep-
farming. The only other lawyer is Donnie
Stewart, of Dunedin, who takes Finance.
Robert Masters (Education) is a grocer in
Stratford, but what he doesn’t know about
dairying could be written on a postage-stamp.
J. A. Young (Health) is a dentist.
This can’t have happened often in Aus-
tralia. When, the other day, Dr. Fox was
consecrated R.C. Bishop in the Broken Hill
Cathedral, where he had served as an altar-
boy, among the priests present was Father
Paul (Zundolovich), who had baptised him.
Father Paul was brought from Central
Europe in 1892 to round up the Czechs and
Slavs, who had already got into the B. H.
mines in some numbers; the Italians came
later. He has been in the diocese ever since.
Dr. Fox’s father was an early Broken Hill
storekeeper
H. M. RUSSELL, M.L.A. for Toombul, the
new president of the Brisbane Chamber
of Commerce.
Edwin Stephen Rouse, who died at Rouse
Hill last week, was the Union Club’s oldest
member —he joined in 1870 —and the head
of a clan that has been breeding and riding
horses round Parramatta for over a cen-
tury. A Rouse was an original pupil of
The King’s School. The Rouse and Terry
families inter-married, and constituted the
closest approach to a squirearchy that N. S.
Wales has known in the days when George
Terry, Edwin Rouse’s son-in-law, was
Master of the Sydney Hounds and old
Richard Terry was living on his estate at
Ryde. Edwin Rouse won the Sydney Cup
twice with Viva, and he and his brother
bred some famous hackneys.
The mellifluous and strategical W. A.
Holman is to have his opportunity of return-
ing to politics) after close on a dozen
years, during which his eloquence has been
mostly expended on Judges and juries.
When H. E. Pratten died, the ex-Premier
tried to get the Nationalist nomination for
Martin, but the party machine, which
he himself has done so much to create and
develop, passed him out in favor of Pratten’s
nephew. The young man failed to hold the
seat in 1929; last week Holman won the
selection ballot for the next contest, scoring
over two-thirds of the total votes polled.
George Mann, who has died at Murwillum-
bah (N.S.W.), at 75, was for many years
one of the outstanding personalities of
the Tweed River district. He played many
parts as business man. farmer and contrac-
tor; the elaborate drainage systems which
made available much swamp land in South
Murwillumbah and elsewhere were among
the undertakings carried out by him. His
four sons were all Diggers. Two lost their
lives, one at Gallipoli, and a third (Cecil
Mann, of The Bulletin) was badly knocked
there.
Ernie Abigail, Sydney’s best-known police-
court attorney till his health failed a year
or so back, and a criminal defender of the
highest order, died on Monday. He had a
comic face and the figure of a sawn-off giant.
He dressed resplendently, possessed a racy
wit and knew all the gossip and catch-words
of the town, but his success was due to more
than his picturesque personality. He was
a sound lawyer, and. he handled Judges as
cleverly as he did juries. He began his
legal career in Newtown, where his father
was a grocer, but he was a leading figure at
Darlinghurst while in his early twenties.
The late Jimmy Abigail was a brother, and
Francis Abigail, M.L.A., one of Parkes’s
Ministers, was an uncle.
The Welsh flavor, without which no Cabi-
net can claim all the virtues, is supplied in
the new Maoriland Government by David
Jones. Jones was one of the pioneers of
the Farmers’ Union in Canterbury, and
represented it before the Arbitration Court
in the historic case of a quarter of a century
ago which placed farm labor permanently
outside the Court’s jurisdicton. Born in a
village a few miles north of Christchurch, he
has been farming in the same locality ever
since, with the exception of a two-years’
flutter in the Waikato, which cured him of
wanderlust. He is chairman of the Meat
Board. Jones has a great respect for facts,
and uses them effectively, and though his
demeanor is a bit dour he has the Welsh
agility of mind and a sense of humor. He’s
liked in the House because he fights fair and
never yet sat on the fence.
The seat in the Westralian Leg. Coun-
cil rendered vacant by the death of
Hector Stewart looks like going to Alex.
Thomson, who represented Katanning in the
Assembly from 1914 until last year, and
had become leader of the Country party
(and might have become Premier) when
his constituents unkindly turned him down.
Alex, is a canny and assertive Scot,
born in England and mostly bred in Mel-
bourne, who settled in Westralia to become
the spokesman of the wheat cockies close
on 30 years ago.
George S. Knowles is expected to succeed
Garran as Solicitor-General. Knowles, who
is Chief Clerk of the Attorney-General’s
Department and assistant Parliamentary
draughtsman, graduated with honors at Mel-
bourne Uni., and entered the Queensland
public service, transferring to the Common-
wealth in 1902. In 1916 he was admitted
a barrister and solicitor of the High Court,
and for years he has been Garran’s right-
hand man.
The J£arl of Orford, who died at 77 near
Auckland (M.L.), whither he came in quest
of health three years ago, had spent most
of his life in the diplomatic service. He
was the fifth of his line, the first having
been a nephew of the famous Horace Wal-
pole. But the first Earl of Orford, though
the older title died out with Horace, was
the Strawberry Hill celebrity’s even more
famous father George Walpole, Prime Min-
ister under the two first Georges.
“Silo”: Kapunda wasn’t Sid Kidman’s
birthplace (B. 16/9/’3l), the future cattle
king came to light near the foothills to the
east of Adelaide.
Bob Ross was the type of man that
public affairs kills. He was, amongst
other things, secretary of the Socialist
Society, junior vice-president of the A.L.P.,
delegate of the Trades Hall Council and a
trustee of the Public Gallery and Library;
and he was faced daily with the problem of
dealing with men who differed from him.
Labor confreres gave him his greatest
trial. What he could never understand
was that most men re-act to an idea
emotionally and in accordance with their
environment. If you want to alter their
ideas you are more likely to do so by
The late BOB ROSS.
waiting for their environment to alter than
by appealing to their reason. Ross re&cted
emotionally himself, and was apt to take
opposition to his ifleas as a personal thing.
The man who can keep his place in the
hurly-burly of politics must be something of
a student of human nature and a humorist.
If he is not he is likely to worry himself
to death, and that is pretty well what Ross
did.
Colonel Nicholson, who died at West Mait-
land (N.S.W.) last week at 75. had a full
and varied life, what between the law and
the land and soldiering and politics. He
was a Boer War veteran who heard the call
of duty again in 1914, despite his years, and
served as a transport officer besides being
entrusted with a special commission to in-
vestigate the administration of Red Cross
funds in Egypt. Earlier in life he had
represented Maitland for nine years in the
State Assembly.
One of Canterbury College’s nominees for
the Rhodes scholarship this year is a Maori,
Wike Riwhi, who is taking the Arts course.
H'e is a son of an Arawa chieftain, and a
chief in his own right.
DONALD GRANT, Sydney’s newest
alderman.
William Sandford, who ran the Lithgow
ironworks from 1885 to 1907 and was the
first man to make steel in Australia, had
his 90th birthday last week; and he was still
hale enough to work diligently in his garden
at Eastwood. Sandford was too much of an
idealist to be a very successful business man;
and, anyhow, his financial backers felt that
younger men were wanted to make the enter-
prise a great success. So Charles and George
Hoskins took the whole thing over in 1908.
Mr. Sandford being then 67. He survived
both of them—great pioneers, all three, of
Australian industries.
Father L. J. Dew, chaplain to the Little
Sisters of the Poor Home, Northcote (Vic.),
who passed out last week, was a N.S.W.
bank clerk until his wife died eight years
ago. Then he studied for the priesthood
at Corpus Christi College, Werribee (Vic.),
and was ordained in 1929. His son, Father
Wilfred Dew, is a Sacred Heart missionary
at Douglas Park (N.S.W.), and his three
daughters are nuns in Vic. convents.
S. D. Burrows, whose death in England
is reported, rendered good services as R.M.
during the early days of the Hubert Murray
regime in Papua. His work in connection
with the exploration of the Upper Fly and
Murray rivers brought him an F.R.G.S. Join-
ing the A.1.F., he was seriously wounded in
France. After being invalided out he man-
aged an estate in Kent.
Robert Martin Osborne, wdio has died in
a Sydney hospital, did splendid work as
Mayor of Launceston during the great Tas.
flood two years ago. He was the son of a
Wiltshire Congregational minister ; after some
journalistic experiences in England, Ireland
and America, he settled in S. Aus. in 1884,
and during the 28 years he spent in that
State established a number of country
newspapers. The first reporter he engaged
was Hal Colebatcli, now a Senator and a
knight. Retiring in 1912, Osborne travelled
for a time, and finally made his home in
Launceston, where he, was elected to the
City Council 10 years ago. Mrs. Osborne,
who pre-deceased him, was a Miss Axford,
and was born at Thorpe, Bothwell, where
the family settled in the very early days of
the Speck.
Mandated New Guinea will be the poorer
for the death of Pat Coogan, Maoriland-born,
Coogan first saw New Guinea with the Expedi-
tionary Force of 1914, and for some years
was Police Master at Rabaul, his principal
. job being the supervision. and control of
native labor. Leaving the Government in
1920, he went into business as a general
consulting agent for the territory, until he
left Rabaul for the goldfields in 1928 to look
after the mining interests of Harry Darby,
whose suicide in India was recently reported.
Though he is 94, Dr. Redwood, Maori-
land’s R.C. archbishop, insisted on making
the long and toilsome journey to Broken Hill
to be present, at the consecration of Dr. Fox,
Australia’s youngest bishop in charge of a
diocese. There is 57 years between them.
Arrived at Broken Hill, Dr. Redwood pro-
ceeded to trot off with his own suitcase.
“But why not/?” he said when somebody
took the burden out of his hand.


A BELT without a
BUCKLE in beautifully
plaited Kangaroo Hide
An original idea, thought out
by a bushman, that is already
very popular. The ordinary
buckle is displaced by two rings,
which grip the end of the belt
and may be fastened exactly
where you wish. Made from
Plaited Kangaroo Hide in
various cunningly-woven pat-
terns. Send your order to-day,
as stocks are limited, and we
expect to sell quickly.
Price, each
14/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
A
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILCAT
COIUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney).
N et To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1921.. 72,273 9 p.c.= 45,901 27,372 223,363
1922.. 82,856 9 „ „ 50,360 32,496 255,859
1923.. 96,899 9 „ „ 59,218 37,681 293,540
1924.. 117,570 9 „ „ 67,494 50,076 343,616
1925.. 129,132 9 „ „ 83,498 45.634 389,250
1926.. 147,915 9 „ „ 90,000 57,915 447.165
1927.. 159,101 10 „ „ 113,675 45,426 492,591
1928.. 168,449 10 „ „ 120,000 48,449 541.040
1929.. 170,294 10 „ ~120,000 50,294 591,334
1930.. 148,184 9 „ ~108,000 40,184 631,518
1931.. 78,050 6* „ „ 78,000 50 631,568
There was a sharp drop in turnover, due
mainly to shrunken pay-rolls and the con-
tinued growth of unemployment, while
stinging increases in excise, property-income
and other taxes pressed heavily upon the
attenuated earnings. Also, these and other
factors caused a heavy fall in the value of
hotel properties, including leases and rentals,
and repossessions became more common. So,
after providing for bad and doubtful
debts, etc., the board figured gross profits
(£606,288) at £150,266 short of the pre-
vious year’s. Management, excise and taxa-
tion charges (£528,228, including the usual
£15,000 openly struck off plant) were
got back £80,132; thus leaving the net result
at 6.5 p.c. on capital as against 12.3,
14.1 and 14 p.c. for the three preceding
terms. The final div. was at the rate of
5 p.c. p.a., making 6i p.c. for the year, and,
visibly,, there was but £5O to spare.
A 5 p.e. div. would call for no more
than 3.2 p.c. on capital and reserves com-
bined at July 31, which ought to be easy
enough under settled conditions. Last year
average funds turned in 4.3 p.c., the lowest
yet:—•
Average Net Written Profit p.c.
Funds. Profit. Off. of Funds.
1919.. £599,732 £45,974 £lO,OOO 7.7
1923 . 922,393 96,899 15,000 10.5
1925.. 1,266,228 129,132 15,000 10.2
1926.. 1,418,003 147,915 15,000 10.4
1927.. 1,600,628 159,101 15,000 9.9
1928. 1,716,815 168,449 15,000 9.8
1929.. 1,766,187 170,294 15,000 9.6
1930.. 1.811,420 148,184 15,000 8.2
1931.. 1,831,543 78,050 15,000 4.3
Over the period covered by the table capital
climbed from £400,000 to £1,200,000 by par
issues, divs. averaged 8.3 p.c., and £462,049,
or 32 p.c. of net earnings, remained in the
business.
At the end of 1929 it was decided to make
financial arrangements mainly a domestic
matter, so a subsidiary, Tooheys Standard
Securities, vras thrown off for the pur-
pose. At July 31 its paid capital was
£312,500 in 300,000 71 cum. prefs. and
49,978 ords. The ords., paid to £12,500, are
held by the parent, whose shareholders put
up most of the pref. money. After setting
aside £12.309 for taxation, the year’s profit
was £22.593; a trifle more than the pref.
requirements. Tooheys appear as a debtor
for £323,740. .
Thus, over the last two years, tne brewery
co. has been able to chip £241,971 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors; the
balance of the pup’s advances went mainly
into hotel freeholds ;
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital £999,591 £1,200,000 £1,200,000 £1,200,000
309,225 497,220 261,530 255,249
Loans* - ~ 317,628 323,740
Breweries,
S dS ’ 1 114,334 1,593,197 1,726,268 1,762,648
Stocks . . 183,779 161,886 119,529 86,593
Book debts 445,011 584,413 564,771 560,479
Cash and
securities 13,452 24,059 24,425 5,287
Shares in
other cos. 38,583 40,550
*Advanees by subsidiary.
The year’s reduction of only £4292 in debt-
ors’ balances and net growth of £36,380 m
the book value of fixed assets suggests that
the management is still spending money on
hotel properties. Excluding loans from the
subsidiary, the more or less liquid surplus
(£397,110) slipped £50,085 during the
twelvemonth. That was due to the growth
in fixed assets and reduction in the stocks
item; this latter was actually less than the
figure at which it appeared in 1914.
Hopes are that the fall in sterling
will help to lift prices for o ur staples,
amongst other things. Nevertheless, trade
promises to continue difficult, unemploy-
ment acute and taxation onerous. On
the market Toolieys’ 16s. paid shares were
fairly steady around 17s. 6d. until the
taxation proposals of the May Premiers’
Conference became known. The price is
now 14s. 9d.; at that figure the return is
5J p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The backing
is 245. sd. in net tangibles.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
June, Loss. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 31,367 Nil 70,336
Profits.
1922.. 66.132 12i p.c. = 50,000 16,132 86,468
1923.. 75,070 12* „ „ 50,000 25,070 111,538
1924.. 60.682 10* „ „ 40,000 20,682 132,220
Loss.
1925.. 61,948 5 p.c. = 20,000 50,272
Profits.
1926.. 38,448 7 ~ „ 28.000 10.448 60,720
1927.. 47,134 8 „ „ 32,000 15,134 75,854
Depreciation reserve taken in, £32,000.. 107,854
1928.. 58,693 10 p.c. = 40,000 18,693 126,547
Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £130,000 .. 3,453
Loss.
1929.. 12,110 ' Nil 15,563
1930.. 164,575 Nil. 180,138
9s. a share ( £180,000) struck off capital.. 138
1931.. 19,705 Nil 19,843
It is the fourth time inside seven years, and
the fifth since 1920, that this wool- and
skin-merchant has been hit—very little of
its widely-scattered business is done on
a commission basis. The furred-skin section
is the one where the worst of the mischief
occurred. Here it is the practice to buy
up large quantities during the .short winter
season. Following the 1929 purchases the
market failed, and London, Leipzig and
New York liquidated their stocks, at cut
rates, making the sale of fresh supplies
from Australia almost impossible. Each
drop in the price piled the co’.’s losses higher
and higher still, and the balance for 1930
was struck at £164,575 on the wrong side
of the ledger, thus piling the deficit on
shareholders’ account to £180,138; that is
disregarding goodwill (£130,000) as an.
asset.
Early in the last term the slate was
cleaned by lopping 9s. per share (£180,000)
off capital, reducing it to £220,000 in fully-
paid 11s. shares. But prices continued to
sag, and trading for the 12 months to June
30 resulted in a further loss of £19,705,
mainly on the heavy stocks that had accu-
mulated Rt the close of accounts in 1930,
to' finance which the co. was leaning heavily
on outsiders.
During the year the book value of stocks
was reduced by £141,985
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £220,000
Liabilities . . 130,772 157,530 297,637 148,773
Fixed assets*. 320,603 213,396 190,493 184,114
Stocks .. 248,141 145,361 253,293 111,308
Book debts . . 123,459 181,819 73,102 52,834
Cash .. 1,947 1,392 610 675
'-Including goodwill (£130,000) down to 1929.
Thus, with a contraction of £20,268 in
debtors’ balances and a growth of £2682 in
suspense accounts (£7699), the board was
able to reduce advances against shipments
(£43.503) by £115.472, and knock £36,073
off the overdraft (£94,889). The slip in’
the more or less liquid surplus (£16,044,
including stocks) was £13,324.
Everything depends on stocks; no hint
is given as to the basis on which they have
been taken into the sheet. However, the
strengthening of prices, following suspension
of gold sales by Britain, has reduced the
eo.’s risks at the moment. But so long as
its activities continue speculative, it is in-
evitable that results will run in and out
according to market fluctuations.
The market notes this, the size of the
debt and the smallness of the liquid surplus
and pays only 4s. 6d. for the scrip, thus
capitalising the undertaking at £90.000. Its
net book value at June 30 was £200,157.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
July, Profits. t Dividends \ serves. Deficit.
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord.
7 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £ £
67,660
1921.. 38,236 2100 4200 25,455 6,481 61,179
1922.. 14,236 2100 4200 Nil 7,936 53,243
8 p.c.
1923.. 42,902 2100 4200 30,518 6,084 47,159
1924.. 50,966 2100 4200 30,518 14,148‘33,011
6 p.c.
1925.. 38.325 21Q0 4200 22,889 9,136 23,875
1926.. 45,491 2100 4200 22,888 16,303 7,572
7 p.c. Reserves.
1927.. 47,382 2100 4200 26,703 14,379 6,807
8 p.c.
1928.. 50,756 2100 4200 30,515 13,938 20,745
6 p.c.
1929.. 34,030 2100 4200 22,901 4,829 25,674
1930.. 7,156 2100 4200 Nil 856 26,430
Loss.
1931.. 25,203 Nil Nil Nil 1,227
Pew traders have felt the pinch more severely
than the furniture people. Even during the
boom capricious fashion played havoc with
earnings through obsolete stocks. Also, com-
petition has always been very keen, some of
the big department stores capturing a large
part of the trade. Thus, ever since the
valiant reconstruction of 1920, when 31 ords.
were handed out for every 16 previously
held, and the pref. divs. were lifted a point,
this co.’s profits have been unsteady. After
attending to the pref. requirements, the
ords. have averaged only 4.9 p.c. over the
last decade.
During the 12 months covered by the last
accounts there was an almost complete stop-
page of home and other building and the
furnishing that goes with it. Prices slumped,
the debts problem became more acute, and,
after taking stocks into the sheet at £56,880
below the 1930 figure, a loss of £25,203
showed up. No divs. were paid, and the tan-
gible support for capital was reduced to
£1227 in the books —goodwill, not treated as
an asset herein, figures at £67,660.
In 1928 the showrooms were extended by
the purchase of an adjoining property, part
of David Jones’s old premises, and the board
went outside for most of the money:—
1926. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital . . £463,978 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities .. 113,005 162,883 141,131 96,531
Leaseholds and
freeholds . . 132,624 191,592 190,876 190,150
Plant etc . . 41,726 44.209 47,521 45,534
Stocks . . 269,613 298,517 304,992 248,107
Book debts . . 143,961 137,252 85,462 70,051
Cash, etc. .. 7,526 7,124 6,047 8,103
Stocks are the item which catch the eye;
they represented 44 p.c. of the tangible assets
at July 31. No hint is given as to the
basis on which they have been taken into the
sheet, and much obviously depends on that.
The year’s reduction in the item, and of
£15,411 in debtors’ balances, enabled £44,600
to be clipped off the debt. Yet there was
a slip of £25.640 in the more or less liquid
surplus (£229,730, including stocks).
Considering the results achieved during the
boom years, the co. will be fortunate if it
pulls through without reconstruction, not-
withstanding that it has very solid con-
nections. There are 30,000 first and 52,500
second prefs. in a paid capital of £646,187.
They carry a fixed cumulative 7 p.c. and 8
p.c. respectively, and have priority as to
capital. (Under the Interest Reduction
Bill now before the N.S.W. Parliament
these rates would be reduced by 31s. 6d.
and 365. respectively.) The book value of
the net tangible cover, mainly stocks _ and
premises, is £5 10s. 4d. for the firsts,
£8 ss. lid. seconds, 20s. Id. ords. The
market, which offers only 2s. 3d. for the
ords. and Bs. 6d. for the seconds, doubts the
revival of earning capacity.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net r Dividends \ To Re-
July, Profit. .—Pref.—, Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 20,451 8% 6% 5% = 15,421 5,030 6,349
Reserves.
1928.. 29,886 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 9,385 4,034
1929.. 35,882 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 16,380 19,414
1930.. 30,064 10 „ 8„ 8 „„ 20.502 . 9,562 28,976
1931.. 18,843 8 „ 6„ 6 „„ 15,601 3,242 32,218
There are 44,878 first and 182,183 second
prefs. and only 18,000 ords., all fully paid
to £1 each. The prefs. rank in the order
stated for capital and divs., carry a cumu-
, lative 8 p.c. and 6 p.c. respectively, and
advance point for point with the ords. after
the latter have had 6 p.c.. After setting
aside £lO,OOO for depreciation and £4500
for the taxgatherer (together £5500 less than
in the previous term), there Was a slip or
£11,221 in last year’s net earnings. These
were 7.6 p.c, on paid capital as against 12.2,
14.6, 12.1 and 8.3 p.e. back to 1927; so the
2 p.c. sweetener, sent out in the three pre-
ceding years, was dropped, leaving the prefs.
their minimum requirements and the ord.
div. at 6 p.c. The £32,218 of free reserves is
none too stout a prop for £245,061 of capi-
tal, though there may be a bit tucked away
in the depreciation reserve (£116,532),
which was 37.1 p.c. of the book value of
plant, etc., at July 31.
Chief doubt is whether the co. will be
able to gather sufficient business to
keep up payments of 6 p.e. p.a. to the
second lot of prefs. It is the only cement
producer of importance in Queensland, but
the plant is well in excess of requirements,
selling prices have been reduced, the con-
struction programme at Mt. Isa is prac-
tically complete, and both public and pri-
vate expenditure on new works has been cut
to the bone. Still, there has been an encour-
aging response to the co.’s efforts to widen
the use of its product by advertising, the
chairman says; much will depend on this.
The benefits should be felt more as trading
conditions settle down.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances: —•
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931
Paid capital.. £245,061 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Overdraft ... 29,963 1,813
Sundry-creditors 20,118 11,955 14,328 . 8,057
Freehold, etc. 28,203 28,605 28,605 28,605
Plant, etc. .. 287,109 306,622 313,584 313,890
Stocks .. 25,584 50,744 49,973 50,816
Book debts .. 39,513 16,384 23,904 11,082
Cash, etc. .. 1,840 925 7,336 17,578
The year’s surplus earnings and a reduc-
tion of £12,822 in debtors’ balances enabled
£6271 to be snipped off the debt and £10,242
to be added to the cash holding. The more
or less liquid surplus (£71,419, including
stocks) was £4534 stronger than at the
close of accounts in 1930.
The co. was formed in 1914, but owing to
the war a start was not made until four
years later. There was not enough business
to keep the works at Darra fully employed,
and the pref. divs. fell into arrears —
£47,424 in 1926. This debt was capitalised
by the issue of £45,546 of 6 p.c. cum. parti-
cipating profs.; the other £IB7S was paid
in cash. Thereafter encouraging results
were won.
Last year’s profit was over three times the
minimum requirements of the firsts, after
allowing for which the 6 p.c. on the seconds
was covered nearly 14 times. Excluding the
depreciation reserve, the backing is £6 3s. 7d.,
firsts ; 255. 6d., seconds ; 555. 10d., ords. On
the market the ords. are priced at 10s., and
the seconds are offered at 14s. The return
at those figures is 12 p.c. and 8.6 p.c.
respectively on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Ltd.
t — Dividends
t —Prefs.— N Re-
June, Profits. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 75,139 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 38,550 42,676
Profit on sale of freehold, £17,681.. 60,357
1928. . .74,094 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 38,800 79,961
1929.. 72,701 13;500 2190 15 „ „ 38,700 98,272
Portion of goodwill sold to : subsi-
diary, £7140 . . . . . . 105,412
Transferred to Contingency Reserve,
£16,000 ... .. 90,412
1930.. 54,117 13,500 2190 10 p.c. = 25,800 103,039
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£5OOO ' 98,039
F. A. Henriques, Ltd., absorbed;
added goodwill, £ 9384 .. .. 88,655
1931.. 43,412 13,500 2190 Nil 116,377
Originally cork merchants, etc., this old-
established concern developed a very profit -
able turnover in equipment for brewers,
hotelkeepers, bakers, confectioners, etc., and
sales of vinegar and essences helped to bump
up the takings. In 1926 the ord. capital
was doubled by the issue of £126,000 of
bonus scrip—it was provided out of part
of the inner reserves disclosed by a revalua-
tion of the assets —and the div. was dropped
from 20 p.c. to 15 p.c., and remained steady
until the close d accounts in. 1929.
Trading has since become lighter, more
difficult and less profitable, and the co. has
gone a bit into debt to finance the many
changes that have taken place in connec-
tion with the business. Nevertheless, after
satisfying the pref. requirements, enough
remained last year to show 9.7 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 15, 22.1, 22.6 and 23 p.e.
back to 1927. But owing to the uncertain
outlook and the money tied up on mortgage
—probate difficulties are holding up repay-
ment of £51,458 by a mortgagor—the ords.
were passed by. The £27,722 of net earn-
ings that thus remained in the business lifted
reserves to £116,377 in excess of goodwill,
etc. (£49,244).
In ’2B the co. sold its old Castlereagh-
street warehouse at a disclosed profit of
£17,681, bought Arthur Cocks and Co.’s
York-street property and acquired larger
premises in Brisbane. Then a new. factory
was put up at Waterloo’; also this co. and
Henriques passed over the bottle-seal part
of their businesses to a subsidiary, Austra-
lian Seal Pty., for scrip. That completed,
Mauri Bros, bought the rest of Henriques’s
plant, stocks and goodwill at an unstated
price—27,62o ords. were issued in part pay-
ment. The net addition to intangibles was
£9384. The effect of all this on the finances
is seen in the next comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—•
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Ord. capital.. £258,000 £258,000 £258,000 £285,620
Pref. capital. . 171,900 171,900 171,900 171,900
Mortgages . . 9,000 6,000 3,000
Overdraft . . 41,652 32,923
Sundry creditors 94,142 84,396 78,876 109,319
Freeholds .. 169,545 189,493 207,983 209,049
Plant, etc. . . 37,192 41,946 37,423 47,611
Shares other cos. 88,544 88,544 126,644 141,644
Stocks .. 128,845 129,229 95,185 107,928
Book debts .. 152,460 156,308 184,514 168,688
Loan .. 64,000 61,750 51,458 51,458
Cash, etc. .. 8,837 324 501 606
Thus, over the last three years, £27,620 has
been added to capital and £51,100 net to the
debt, and liquids have been drawn upon
for £25,462. The book value of fixed assets,
mainly freeholds, has increased by £40,923,
and the growth in shareholdings was £53.100.
Altogether, there was a slip of £76,562, of
which £21,692 was on account of last year,
in the more or less liquid surplus (£183,43S
at June 30, including stocks).
To* what extent earnings are likely to be
further affected it is difficult to say. Oppor-
tunities for trading have become more re-
stricted, but the co. is getting its full share
of business available. Much depends on the
soundness of debtors’ balances, the figure at
which stocks appear, and the size of the
contingency fund. On the market the ords.
fetch 11s., at which figure the return would
be 7.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. At 17s.
6d. the “A” shares return 9.2 p.c., or 7.9
p.c. •if Mr. Lang’s proposal to cut pref.
divs. by 22 \ p.c. becomes operative. The
(Continued on page 16.)


When Safety depends on
Dunlop Perdriau Quality
è
The fact that Dun-
lop Perdriau Air
Brake Hose is fitted
to the Westing-
house Brakes on
almost every train
in Australia is a
striking tribute to
Dunlop Perdriau
quality. These
hoses are selected
by railway author,
ities only after the
most rigid tests.
Express—thundering on its way through
the night . . . the sudden, unexpected emerg-
ency .... nerves steeled for instant action ~. .
the swift application of the brakes .... and—just
in time—the huge train drawn to a standstill.
To the millions of people throughout Australia who
travel in trains every year, such incidents are every-day
possibilities, yet very few accidents occur, a fact very largely
attributable to the quality of brakes and incidental
equipment used.
The Westinghouse brakes on almost every train in
Australia are fitted with Dunlop Perdriau Air Brake Hose.
Year after year, the various State and Commonwealth
Railways have been buying these hoses, for it has been
proved that by every test, for length of life and reliability,
they are superior to any other make.
Air Brake Hose is only one of many lines of Industrial
Hoses manufactured by Dunlop Perdriau. Alongside is
illustrated a few of the more important, each one designed
for a specific purpose. And because all are manufactured
with the same exacting care and from the same high grade
materials, they have given years of trouble-free service in
the principal mining and industrial activities of the
Commonwealth. When next you renew or extend your hose
equipment, for maximum service at minimum cost, specify;
Dunlop Perdriau
Industrial Hose..
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER COMPANY LIMIT E D .
. Branches all States


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Stanaaru o i Quality throughout th o Empire,
iw onobef
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite **
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Make a Will
and appoint as your Executor a corporate
body which for forty-four years has acted in
the capacity of Executor, Administrator,
Trustee, Attorney, etc., which can never die
or leave the country, and which offers the
utmost security for the funds of your Estate,
viz., Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION £4O MO,OOO
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
H. V. Douglass, Manager.
The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’’
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The “Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY ”
FOR OCTOBER.
SATURDAY NEXT.
SINGLE .COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty j'ears’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * :!:
Pioneer Wood Pipe is absolutely non-corrosive, a
feature that is of the utmost importance in con-
sidering the effective life of a pipe line—maintenance
cost, capacity and purity of the liquid contents of
the pipe. Many important installations of Pioneer
Wood” Pipe prove the high efficiency of this conduit
for practically any purpose. Full information in
illustrated data book —free on request to the Aus-
tralian Mood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove, N.S.W. (near - Figtree Bridge) ; and $t Foot-
seray, Victoria.— Advt.
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. .Ryan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Purchasers and Refiners of
GOLD and GOLD ORES, SILVER and SILVER ORES, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION, COPPER ORES, COPPER PRECIPITATES, SCRAP COPPER,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper. “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of
the Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, SEND YOUR GOLD BY POST (INSURED) TO ANY OF OUR OFFICES.
“B's” are seldom dealt in. Subject to
any goodwill in the subsidiaries, the book
value of the net tangible backing is “A’s,”
£3 16s. 6d.; “B’s,” 38s. 9d.; ords., 28s. 2d.
Australian Drug (Investments), Ltd.
It used to be the Australian Drug Co.,
Ltd., a steady 10-per-center for the 17 years
to. the close of accounts in 1929. But
altered trading conditions and the co.’s pro-
perty investments changed the outlook; so
in August, 1930, the old co'. merged its main
trading interests with those of 11 other large
drug concerns in one big holding eo., Drug
Houses of Australia, Ltd., which has a
nominal capital of £5,000,000. The old co.
(1) sold its assets and liabilities, except
its freeholds and the mortgage thereon, to
Australian Drug (1930), Ltd., for shares:
(2) exchanged these shares for an equal
number in Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.;
(3) changed its name to the present title.
Holders of the 62,775 71 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 162,225 ords. in the old co. received
similar scrip, share for share, in the Invest-
ment Co., which thus has a paid capita] of
£225,000. At June 30 its assets consisted
of freeholds, £276,467 (cost) ; shares in the
Drug Houses Co., £169,026: book debts, etc.,
£737. Sundry creditors figured for £166,189 ;
most of it was coming to the bank, which
holds a first mortgage over the freehold
and a lien on the shareholdings. Reserves
totalled £55,041.
The freeholds comprise a 12-storeyed
building, opposite the city railway station
in Wynyard-square, and factory premises in
York-street. Last year some of the space
that had been let was vacated, and rents
barely covered interest, rates and upkeep.
An interim at the rate of 4 p.c. p.a. was
received on the shareholdings; thus, after
paying exes., the year’s profit was but £4lBl,
and no divs. were paid. The prefs. call for
£4707 p.a. This and 5 p.c. to the ords.
would together equal 7.6 p.c. on the holding
in Drug Houses. Completion of the city
railway and the opening of the Harbor
Bridge is expected to swell the rent-roll,
ease the pressure of the overdraft and
brighten shareholders’ prospects.
But the market, distrustful of the future,
prices the prefs. at 95.; the return at that
figure is 16.7 p.c., or 12.8 p.c. should the
proposals of the N. S. Wales Government
to cut pref. divs. by 22\ p.c. succeed. These
shares now carry Is. 6d. accrued div.;
the book value of the net tangible cover is
£4 9s. 2d. Ditto for the ords., 265. 9d.;
they are offered at 10s.
Australian Benefit Assurance Sale
The Australian Benefit Life Co., promoted
by W. .T. McMahon in 1920, and which at
June 30, 1930, had frittered away most of
its £44,086 of paid capital and still didn’t
look like ever earning a profit, has sold its
business to the Associated Dominions Assur-
ance Society. The Benefit Co. transfers 800
policies, the liahilities under which are set
out at £15,000; that was £BBlO less than
the book value of net tangibles at June 30,
1930. For taking over the liabilities the
Dominions Society gets £6OOO in- Govern-
ment securities, £2OOO in mortgages and
£7OOO in unspecified assets. In. its last
issued balance-sheet the Benefit Co. showed
£18,878 of Government stocks and cash;
equipment, £1261; book debts and mort-
gages, £5892. Sundry creditors figured at
£2221.
So far as shareholders in the Benefit Co.
are concerned liquidation is the most desir-
able step, though it is doubtful whether they
will get much, if anything, out of it. In the
past they have been humbugged by internal
wranglings, and large shareholders have
been muzzled by alterations in the articles
of association.
Exactly what protection policy-holders
will have on transfer is not clear. At June
30, 1930, Associated Dominion’s assurance
funds totalled £49,825; the book value of
net tangibles was £64,440, mainly Govern-
ment securities and book debts. Paid capital
was £14,142, and there was another £23,345
at call. The result of the actuary’s over-
haul should go out with the report and
accounts to June 30 last, which are now
overdue.
The Metal Market
One immediate effect of the drop in sterling
has been to enhance the purchasing power
of other European countries; they can now
buy more sterling with the same amount of
their own money. Since settlement for pur-
chases are made through London, there has
been a sharp rise in the price of all staples,
especially metals. The following table,
which shows spot prices, London, illustrates
the extent of the lift: —
Average
.Tuly, 1931. 18/9/’3l. 25/9/’3l.
Lead .. £l2 16 4 £lO 13 9 £l5 10 0
Spelter . . 12 10 10 10 7 6 13 16’ 3
Silver .. 11 1 0| 17-’;
Copper .. 34 9 2 27 14 4 35 11 3"
Tin . . 11l 11 2 111 1 3 132 7 6
On top of these prices xiustralian metal pro-
ducers benefit by approximately a> 30 p.c.
exchange premium in Australian currency.
A 20 p.c. drop in sterling, which is approxi-
mately what has occurred, would give a 15.6
p.c. additional benefit in Australian paper
money, so long as exchange rates between
Australia-London remain unaltered. One of
the chief factors in determining these rates
is the supply of and demand for bills. When
sufficient funds accumulate in London the
rates may be expected to ease, if they are
not earlier interfered with for other than
ordinary commercial reasons. At what figure
prices can be expected to firm it is yet too
early to say; speculative activity has prob-
ably helped the figures up, and nobody can
be sure exactly what effect this, and the
possibility of increased production, may have.
The altered conditions were immediately
reflected in the price of the mining cos.’
scrip, of course :
31/7/’3l. 18/9/’3l. 26/9/’3l.
North .. . . 44/- 39/9 49/7
South .. .. 32/6 29/8 36/8
Sulphide .. 6/9 8/6
Zinc Corp. .. 19/10 17/1 24/2
Lyell .. .. 19/9 16/6 21/0
The percentage rises in prices over the last
week have been Lyell, 19.7; Zinc Corp.,
16.1; North, 10.6; South, 9.5. Even with
prices and costs as they were last week-
end, nothing much need be expected in the
way of mining profits. Much will depend
upon the exchanges.
O. ll'. Woodward, the star metallurgist of
Port Pirie smelters, recently passed through
Cloncurry after a visit to Mount Isa, where
some trouble had been experienced with the
furnaces. As a result of Woodward’s visit it
was announced by the press that the trouble
had been overcome, and the furnaces were
now running smoothly. The output of bul-
lion, however, suggests that either the trouble
still exists or production is being curtailed.
Everybody had been led to expect that 5000
tons of lead per month would be the out-turn
of the two furnaces, but the production to
date has been at about half that rate. A
reasonable assumption is that the trouble
still exists and may take a little time to
adjust. Mr. Whitney Mce and Mr. McEl-
venny, two metallurgists of heavy tonnage
associated with the American Smelting and
Refining Co., have arrived from the States
at Mount Isa since Mr. Woodward returned
to Port Pirie, and the popular idea is that
it is their job to see that the behavior of the
furnaces is substantially improved.
The owners of Mt. Mascotte, near Yunga-
burra (N.Q.), got an average return of
16dwt. of gold from 215 tons of ore taken
from the open cut. This is the show over
which Oriomo recently took an option, and
then turned it down on account of low values.
# ❖ *
Alexander and party report the discovery
of a reef about 16 miles north of Mt. Isa
(Q-). It is Bft. wide and outcrops for 100
yards; assays from the cap show traces of
gold and a high silver-lead content.
At Crow Mountain, near Barraba
(N.S.W.), there is a hill of quartzite run-
ning east and west with serpentine run-
ning parallel. Crossing this quartzite are
reefs up to 6ft. wide carrying some rich
specimen stuff. A 10-head of stamps
has' been purchased, and the dumps are to be
crushed, while a tunnel goes in e. and w.
to cut the parallel reefs. It is sound pros-
pecting, even if the tunnel gets only 100 ft.
of backs.
* * * *
For the half-year to July 3] Rose, Thistle
and Shamrock, Ilarrietville (Vic.), crushed
1813 tons for 23430 z. gold, of which 3020 z.
was from the plates. The lot was worth
£12,920, including the premium.; exes, made
off with £6002, and four 9d. divs. (£6000)
were paid. The co. had £3816 in the bank,
and there was £BO3 coming to creditors.
Recent crushings have shown lower values,
but the ore is still payable!
* * * *
The directors of Kimberley Oil Co. are
enthusiastic about prospects of the next bore,
to be sunk to a depth of between 3000 ft.
and 4000 ft. The work will begin in November,
and the co. has just about enough cash to
squeeze through with the contract. Alto-
gether it has spent about £lOO,OOO to date.
During August, 1928, ’29 and ’3O the
W.A. gold yield was around 37,0000 z.; last
month it was 52,5020 z. ' Wiluna and Lake
View and Star and full-time State batteries
were responsible for the improvement.
Most of the State mills are running con-
tinuously and prospectors are asking for
additional stamps.
* * # *
Lake View and Star has thus far spent
over £lOO,OOO on development and plant. It
looks venturesome on a 275. gold extraction,
plus premium and gold bounty. Much de-
pends on the gold premium. If this con-
tinues around the present figure, the co. may
make good profits. The flotation process is
expected to improve extraction and reduce
working costs. Also, it is hoped that ore
in prospect round about the 3600 ft. levels
in the Golden Horseshoe and Chaffers ground
will improve the Lake View and Star grade.
Attempts to raise £lOO,OOO in London to
unwater, develop and equip the Edna May
Consolidated, now known as the Edna May
Group, having failed, the eo. has asked for
and got three months’ exemption. The water
problem at Westonia was the stiffest met
with in W.A.; at one time 11 million gal-
lons were being pumped daily from the
workings.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I have a fair-sized deposit in the N.B.W.
Government Savings Bank; 1 left it there
as old-age provision when I came to Queens-
land over 20 years ago. I afterwards took
£3OO of Rural Bank stock. (1) Is there any
chance of my G-S.B. accomit being available
for withdrawals, and when? (2) Will in-
terest on Rural Bank loan be payable and
when? (3) The loan matures in 1033. Is
there any chance of its repayment then? (4)
Who and ivhat are the new Commissioners?
(5) Are the present managers (as apart
from Commissioners) the same as formerly?
(6) How does the business of the bank seem
to be shaping? What is its future? —6023.
(1) Certainly. The deposits were got on
the guarantee of the N.S.W. Government
and that guarantee will be honored—if not
by one Government, then by some other some
day. Cannot say when. (2) Yes; cannot
say when. (3) No. (4) O’Malley Wood,
surveyor, 13 years head of old Savings Bank
(retired in 1920); John Butters, engineer;
Clifton Love, chairman Clifford Love and
Co., merchants, etc.; William Vicars, wool
manufacturer ; Mark Young, late chief in-
spector Commonwealth Bank. (5) Yes. (6)
The new deposits carry 31 p.c. and 3 p.c.
In view of all the circumstances the bank
is bound to hold liquid a large proportion of
these funds. Profit is therefore very doubt-
ful. Hence absorption by the Commonwealth
Bank is still probable, if not inevitable.
My fixed deposit in a Queensland bank
maturds at the end of the year. In the
present state of things what would you
suggest: (1) Renew the deposit for two
years at 41 p.c.? (2) Withdraw the money?
(3) Invest in house or land property? (4)
Speculate in shares or fixed securities? (5)
Anything else?—-5875.
Seems to us that there are now two things
chiefly to consider: (1) the likelihood of
bank failures, (2) ditto of serious inflation.
As to the former it may be taken for granted
that the Commonwealth Bank cannot allow
one of the great banks to fail. It might even
prefer some inflation. Inflation forced upon
it is a larger danger. If there were any-
thing serious in that way—and inflationary
proposals are still alive and in very influ-
ential keeping—real property might be the
best thing to hold: it and shares in certain
industrial cos. fared best in Germany;
deposits, bonds, mortgages, debentures and
pref. shares fared worst. In answering
these questions one must be governed very
largely by one’s opinion of the likelihood or
otherwise of inflation.
Mr. Scullin says “it was made clear at the
outset of the appeal to convert voluntarily
that those who did not convert toould not be
in a better position than those who did.”
When and how teas it made clear? —sBs4.
The proposal first agreed to by the Pre-
miers was that there should be an appeal. . ..
with a 25 p.c. income tax on the interest of
those who did not convert. Two Premiers
and the Opposition leaders objected that
this made conversion compulsory. It was
then agreed that an appeal should be made
for a voluntary conversion without any
addendum as to what would happen to those
who did not convert. But it was expressly
stated that “all” must make a sacrifice. The
official report said that the plan provided
that “no considerable section of the people
is left in a privileged position.” Again:
“The sacrifice is due to a national inability to
pay and it must therefore be shared by all.
The Conference has accordingly provided a
conversion plan under which bondholders
may make their contribution by themselves
accepting the lower rates of interest which
the existing position makes unavoidable.”
Further: “The plan involves sacrifices by
every member of the community. To the
bondholder”—not the bondholder who con-
verts, but the bondholder —“the plan involves
a reduction of intei’est by 221 p.c.” Pro-
fessor Harrison Moore, on the publication
of the pact, wrote: “The conversion plan is
not a voluntary act of sacrifice. It is to
be imposed by the compulsion of the debtor
Governments.”
If Australia were to default on its over-
seas interest bill, icliat effect would it have
on (1) exchange, (2) copra exported from the
Solomon Islands (Brit. Protectorate), (3)
industrial cos. such as Henry Jones, Amt.
Glass and Tooths, (4) landed property, such
as grazing areas in Queensland? —6008.
Don’t see that it would necessarily have
any effect on these things at all. But there
would probably bo a damaging psychological
effect. It would also make overseas borrow-
ings more difficult; and this would tend to
raise the exchange against us.
The Premiers asked the banks to grant
them credits for 18 millions. (1) When the
battles give States credit, do they give it to
them, or lend it at interest? Where does this
money come from, and who does it belong to?
(2) Is this inflation?— 6o29.
(1) The bank allows a State an overdraft
—this time it is at 4 p.c. It may put the
entire amount to the State’s credit. The
State draws on this to pay, say, its public
servants. The payments may be made by
cheque, or with notes and coin—the latter the
banks’ cash resources. In the ordinary
course the cheques are paid direct to a bank:
the cash is paid to tradespeople for services,
and they hank it. So a transaction of this
sort doesn’t call for a great deal of actual
money. But it will be observed that, the
bank (we make it one bank for simplicity’s
sake) is now owed the money by the State,
while the hank owes the money to depositors;
and though it didn’t have the actual money
when it lent to the Government, it has to
be prepared to pay out actual money to the
people who have deposited the money repre-
sentod by the credit. That is why the
creation of credit isn’t the simple, harmless
thing it sometimes looks. (2) When a loan
is made to a manufacturer, he uses it to
make something, which he sells; and with
the proceeds of the sale he wipes out the
debt. But when a loan is made to a State,
especially to finance a deficit, it produces
nothing which can he sold; so it remains out-
standing. That is inflation. The other isn’t,
We have traced coarse gold up to a dyke
which we think is eliorite. This dyke has
weathered to a yellow clay-like mass with
occasional greenish cores the size of a melon.
The gold is flat but heavy, pennyweight and
half-pennyweight pieces being common. (1)
j s gold likely to occur in the dyke itself.
or in contacts on the edge of this formation ?
(2) On which watt of the dyke (which undcr-
lays to the east ) would it be most likely to
exist? (3) Has pure white fine-textured
clay commercial value?-— 5504.
(1) Gold is likely to occur in the contact
country adjacent to a true dyke formation,
(2) May occur on either side. (3) Send a
31b. sample to the Department of Mines,
Sydney. Freight must be prepaid and
locality stated,
BRIEF~ANSWERS ~
i? w T ■ isini minW ™
Noftolwn'in Melbourne .E.H S.: Ar e thev
bonds 0r shares? If they are shares you are liable
to pay full face value . If bondS) ’ depends on the
terms of issue C.N.McL.: Don’t know it....
D . E . : New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd., 67 York-street;
placer Development, Ltd. ; and Bulolo Gold Dredging,
Ltd.—both Wingello, House, Angel-place—all Sydney.
Bay Dawn (New Guinea), Ltd., Edie Creek, New
Guinea... .G.W.: (i) Nobody knows. (2) No. Not
listed anywhere... .W.J.R.G.: (1) We don’t know of
any div. they have yet paid out of goods produced,
(2) and (3) Entirely a gamble; depends on what
chances you are prepared to take.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
A Federal Lottery
Dear Bulletin, —I suggest that Scullin
might do a great deal worse than makt
friends with the mammon of unrighteousness
or hold a candle to the Devil and start a
Federal lottery—tickets to be obtainable, at
post offices, where the Commonwealth Savings
Bank is also available; the Commonwealth
lottery to be the only one not banned under
the postal regulations; and a definite pro-
portion of the profits to go to hospitals as
a matter of certainty, and not to drift into
anybody’s consolidated revenue, where it may
possibly remain and be no more heard of. My
idea is that of whatever remains after pay-
ment of working expenses and prizes, 95 per
cent, should go for hospital purposes in the
various States and Territories in proportion
to the amount contributed by each to the
lottery. The other 5 per cent, could be a
special contribution for the additional benefit
of Territories like Central Australia and
North Australia, where the population of pos-
sible hospital contributors is infinitesimal
and there is a great deal of ground to be
covered. The wickedness of this device might
lie counterbalanced in the big ledger of the
Recording Angel if it led to the extinction
of the three existing lotteries —those of
Queensland, N. S. Wales and Tasmania. An
earnest appeal might be made to good people
who don’t gamble to subscribe in other
ways, and not to let the wicked get ahead
of them in benevolence.—Yours, Bildad.
Abolish Exchange
Dear B., —Our Governments are at their
wits’ end to balance budgets; the deficits
are many millions. Almost an equal number
of millions they pay in exchange to secure
payment of interest abroad. This exchange
goes, almost in full, to the exporters—in the
main, primary producers—whose needs are
not nearly equal. Of the primary producers
it is only the marginal pastoralists and
agriculturists who need great help; and they
probably need more than the exchange bonus
gives them. Apart from the primary en-
couragement of protective duties, is any help
given to the secondary industry? Not on
your life! Secondary industry simply goes
broke, but before doing so fights with its
back to the wall, and very often is rewarded
by success. Therefore, abolish the exchange;
the Governments will nearly balance their
budgets, and the marginal primary producers
can be given more help. It can be done.
Our exports are now for all practical pur-
poses equal to our visible and invisible im-
ports. Sterling is so “rocky” at present that
it. approaches the ridiculous to pretend that
£lOO sterling is worth 130.5 Australian
pounds.. Abolish exchange or you must
accept inflation, or, rather, increased infla-
tion. . And help Government revenue by in-
creasing primage duty to the same or
approximately the same amount as the
exchange.—Yours, E. Farmer.
Capitalise Our Markets
Dear Bulletin, —As it is apparent that
Australia will be unable to meet foreign
liabilities for some years, I suggest that we
could capitalise our markets. Our tariff is
just about as high as it will go. We could
offer British industries a monopoly of cer-
tain lines of imports and exclude imports
of those lines from foreign countries. The
scheme could be arranged through the Brit-
ish Government, which could take over an,
amount of our liabilities equal in value to
the preference given, and limited to a given
number of years. Employment would thus
also be created in Britain; and as foreign
countries would be forced to build factories
in Australia or lose their market, an impetus
would be given to Australian industry.—
Yours, Hopalong.
Gold Is Too Dear
Dear Bulletin, —Gold has always cost to
produce just about what it was worth as
currency. Hence its use as a standard, a
sovereign being worth £1 of currency. Now
that gold costs to produce £5 10s. to £6 per
ounce, the gold sovereign ought to be reduced
in weight until it coincides with its value as
metal. The moment that a sovereign is so
reduced and the excess gold is put into
circulation, values of all commodities will be
stabilised and trade will be based on some-
thing definite.—Yours, Blue Friar.
Open the Northern Territory
Dear B., —What is our greatest asset?
Land. Where is the Achilles heel of Aus-
tralia? The Northern Territory. Australia
is vulnerable there. We have been holding
it for over a century without the title which
civilised nations alone will countenance —
effective occupation.
Let the Federal Government pass an Act
throwing open the lands of the Territory and
giving free grants of limited areas to first
settlers, permitting men of' capital to take up
a greater area. Give the settlers for the first
quarter of a century from the passing of the
Act absolute freedom from Federal taxation
of every kind except ordinary Customs duties.
Give the same rights to ail peoples of the
British Dominions subject only to this, that
the various Governments shall pay the pas-
sage money of their emigrants and provide a
resident commissioner, who shall be respon-
sible for the first year’s maintenance of its
immigrants.
This scheme will give hope and opportunity
for our young men unemployed and will
induce capitalists here and in England to
launch out in great enterprises. It is not
original. It is in force now in the United
States, which peopled the State of Florida
by similar exemptions and converted it into
an American Riviera.—Yours, Alex. Wat.,
lace.
Pt. Darwin as Federal Capital
Dear Bulletin, —I can generally see eye
to eye with you; but can’t stand Sydney as
Fed. capital (16/9/’3l). Substitute Darwin
and there would be some sense in the move-
ment. Do Australians know that the three
most inconvenient ports for world access are
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide, and that
their only advantage in sea mileage is by
the Cape Horn route? Darwin has the
v
geographical advantage over the rest of Aus-
tralia for average sea miles to the greatest
part of the outside world. It is also the
natural radial centre for the rest of Aus-
tralia to' concentrate upon.—Yours, Geo.
Graph I. Cuss.
Sydney the Federal Capital
Dear Bulletin, —Your idea (16/9/’3l)
of Sydney being the F'ederal capital is a
good one; and now is the psychological
moment to start this propaganda. The Fed-
eral Territory should extend from the mouth
of the Hawkesbury to' Penrith, afterwards
following the Nepean River until it encloses
the whole of Sydney’s water supply, thence
by a line bearing easterly to a point on the
South Coast near Wollongong, and by the
Pacific northerly to the point of commence-
ment. The balance of the State might be
divided into two parts by the western rail-
way line, beginning at Penrith and follow-
ing the railway to near Bourke, where it
is intersected by the 146th parallel, thence
to the Queensland boundary. This will
enable each part to. have a certain commu-
nity of interest. The southern part will
have Canberra as its capital, with Houses
of Parliament, Government offices, etc., all
ready for occupation. The northern part
should have Port Stephens as its capital;
in a few years it would become one of Aus-
tralia’s chief ports, challenging even Syd-
ney, with its exports of wool, wheat, meat,
butter, etc. This is no wild statement; the
northern part of the State has suffered for
generations owing to everything being cen-
tralised in Sydney.
At the next Federal election let us have
a referendum on the question.—’Yours,
Nemesis.
Demands Exceed Earnings
Dear Bulletin, —The modern worker is
not satisfied with three meals and a bed,
with a few hours’ recreation in the home, as
his grandfather was. He has been taught
to expect and has received comforts, con-
veniences and luxuries that modern science
and organisation have provided, and gener-
ally speaking his demands have outgrown
liis earning capacity. Visualise the produc-
tive capacity of any worker, factory opera-
tive, tinsmith, carpenter or what not, and
then visualise what he demands in exchange!
The truth is that hundreds of thousands of
men and women who regard themselves as
good workers because they are producers in
a small way in reality do not earn their
fucker and clothes. What is the remedy?
In Australia, at least, it is to so arrange
things that the individual is free to find
and receive his own productive value. It is
easy enough to condemn the present system
of exchange; it is quite another matter to
substitute for it .something better. In
their efforts to find something better the
workers are throwing away the substance
to chase the shadow. Meanwhile a worse
shadow steals over them, the shadow of
hunger, disease and distress. The old social-
ist saying can well be revised. The workers
have nothing to lose but their gaius.—Yours,
The Man with the Shari* 11'oe.
“The Watchmen of Australia”
Dear Bulletin, —I appreciate the feel-
ings of “We Three” 18. 9/o/'3l), for I was
in the same fix myself. I was searching for
something which I could not find. Was there
no other ending to the soul-destroying dole
and unemployment than chaos, revolution and
despair? Then, a chance shot, and that
which my fumbling fingers groped for was
in my grasp. Let “We Three,” in all sin-
eerity, examine the policy of the Guild of
the Watchmen of Australia, and I feel sure
their searchings, like mine, will be rewarded.
—Yours, Watchman.
Revise the Franchise!
Dear Bulletin, —We have been so idiotic
as to make voting compulsory. Compelling
an ungrateful fool to exercise a privilege is
a dangerous proceeding; also, it is proof that
he is unworthy. A scourge is not needed for
the normally intelligent. Almost the whole
of our political foolishness and its conse-
quent bad times is due to one man one vote.
A stern, just and careful revision of the
franchise will be necessary before we get
back to stable and honest government.—
Yours, Woolly Bakblox.
Horse or Motor?
Dear Bulletin, —Can it be disproved that
motor-vehicle imports to compete with a
cheaply-raised horse is a form of perversion?
That concrete roads running parallel to rail-
ways, and laid by a Government to facilitate
motor transport, is a calamitous dissipation
of State capital? That import of motor-oils
and benzine, while a country’s coal and shale
lie idle, is a tragedy amounting to self-
destruction ?
A board dealing with such matters would
have tremendous scope. A profit and loss
account of the motor and the horse might
be accurately presented. Data might be found
to warrant a diversion of taxation proceeds
from the automobile to bounties for assisting
draught-horse breeding; also to assist in
local production of petrol or even tractors,
and certainly in road construction to farm-
ing districts, as leaders to, not competitors
with, our railways.—Yours, G. F.
The Wool Industry
Dear Bulletin, —That a strong combine is
controlling the pastoral industry to the detri-
ment of graziers seems apparent to those
who have been keeping track of conditions
in the wool industry during the past few
years. It is said that costs must be brought
down; but if the grazier got but half
the profits that are made from his fleece
he would be able to pay good wages to
everybody connected with the industry. As
Graham Waddell said the other day, some-
thing must be done quickly to lift the pas-
toral industry out of its slough. He states
that costs must come down ; but there is no
guarantee that that would rectify the present
conditions. There seems nothing illogical
in the cry of the stabilisationists that a
minimum price should be fixed for wool to
ensure the grazier at least his cost of pro-
duction, with a small profit to cover capital
outlay. Woo] forms such a small part of
the so-called woollen materials that the fixing
of the minimum for tops at Is. per pound
could not affect the price of the finished
article. Primary production costs are not
within coo-ee of factory and middleman
costs. —Yours, etc., Wen.
Unemployed and New Guinea
Dear Bulletin, —Does “P.N.C.” infer that
there is no suitable arable land in Australia
where its unemployed could be settled? Else
why pick on New Guinea? The type of man
mentioned as a possible settler is exactly
the kind we don’t want in a black country,
where it is necessary for the whites to main-
tain prestige which, if “P.N.C.” had his
way, would be entirely lost by the employ-
ment of “white masters” on road work pre-
viously carried out by black prison labor.
The average New Guinea native cannot
understand a “master” undertaking heavy
manual work. It’s not done! We have
enough worries of our own without being
burdened with the result of Australia’s mis-
takes. —Yours etc., Mandateite.
A Capital and Labor Conspiracy
Dear B., —A powerful firm was operating
in Queensland under an agreement of its own
with the A.W.U. It had a monopoly and
was “sitting pretty” until a new Richmond
THE WISDOM OF AH LANG.
AH LANG: “My Japanee friend, why do you stick bayonets in us? You say to
make your hungry people forget. But why do you not do as my cousin
Jack Lang does in Australia—open a public gambling-house for them
and start the tin-hare?”
entered the field. The only award then
operating was an old one, and the new people
worked under this. The competition had its
usual result of lowered prices to the public.
The former monopolists then scrapped the
agreement, apparently with the concurrence
of the A.W.U., and applied to the Court for
a new award to cover the whole industry in
terms of an agreement. This was granted,
and the new firm found itself faced with
the necessity of paying higher rates.
There was an appeal, and evidence was given
that the competition had benefited the public
by reducing prices, but the appeal failed.
Of course, Joe Public did not have an advo-
cate at the hearing, and the effect on him
of higher prices was not taken into considera-
tion. The decision makes obvious the point
that Labor and Capital can join hands to
squeeze out any competition that would
benefit the public. Labor is supposed to be
concerned about the small man, but the small
man never has had and never will have a
chance while such an unholy alliance between
big capital and the unions is encouraged by
the law. The Queensland Minister who
declared hiinself in favor of scrapping all
awards was probably on the rignt track;
and the fact that he had to climb down was
very likely due as much to pressure from
Moneybags as to the pressure of Bill Bow-
yangs.-—Yours etc., Referee.


At the Palaeolithic R.A.S
SUNDRY SHOWS.
ê
ë
“What about a run to
Warrandyte?”
and presently
fell asleep —
at least, it is
supposed
that’s what
happened. All
of a sudden he
woke up. A
chap—quite an
ordinary sort
of chap;
might have
been from the
W i m mera —
was hurrying
past talking to
himself. “If I
don’t hurry,”
he was saying.
“I’ll miss the judging of the brontosauruses. ’
“Mad,” meditated the Showman ; “too much
Wimmera!” But then something strange
went by. It was a centaur. Nothing surer.
There was a girl sitting on its back, quite
a nice girl. As they went by the human
end of the centaur turned round and said
to the girl; “After this bally business is
over, what about a run to YVarrandyte?”
The Showman jumped up then and hastened
after the chap that was talking to himself.
“Look here, what’s the strong of it?’
asked the Showman, pointing to the cen-
taur. “Not a bad beast,” said the soliloquial
man, looking at it critically, “but a bit
weak about the hocks. We breed ’em better
up Ivaniva way. Hurry up or you’ll miss
the judging of the Larger Mammalia.”
Arrived at the ring there was a dozen
or so average blokes —real bushmen, every
one of them—leading around a lot of bronto-
sauruses, as quietly as if they were so
many lapdogs. “What do they use them
for?” asked the Showman. “You’re a city
bloke, I see,” said the man from Ivaniva.
“Heavy draught, they are. Amphibians.
Good in flood-time. Take to it like a duck
to water. Look at that beauty, Mr. Rodda’s,
he is.” “Nasty-looking beast,” was the
Showman’s response. “Yes,” says the M.
from Iv., “but do you notice the awe in his
eyes? The Australian would awe anything.
Come and have a look at the judging of
the Wimmera triceratopses.”
So they went and had a look at the tri-
ceratopses. The first day the Showman
went to the Show he saw Mr. Marples,
the imported gentleman all the row’s about,
examining pekes with all the air of a super-
man. Well, there he was, as calm as ever,
judging a triceratops as big as a haystack.
“Let’s have a look at his teeth,” lie said,
and the lad who was holding it had to get
a ladder to reach the creature’s food-trap.
“I don’t hold by the triceratops,” said the
M. from K. “Strong, but too heavy. Bogs
itself ploughing.”
Then came the ladies’ hacks —they were
a light sort of camptosaurus. The Hunters’
Plate was run, and it was a great sight to
see the way Mrs. iCudmore’s tyrannosaurus,
Gipsy Belle, took the jumps clean as a
whistle. No clouting; and the girl on top
didn’t look any bigger than a burr on a
sheep’s back. Next was the mastodon-
riding competition, which the M. from K.
said was an innovation. Wasn’t approved
of by the “Argus.” Cruel to the animals.
Well, it was poor sport. The beasts were
cowed, obviously. Only one animal tossed
its rider. He went up so high that he said
afterwards he could see Westernport quite
clearly. But he had a parachute under his
coat, and he came down safely. There was
a log-chopping contest, with stone axes. A
champion from South Gippsland—big,
“But, boy, what a layer!”
brawny fellow —got through his log in record
time, but the crowd found it tedious and
began to drift away after an hour or so
He took 3 hours 43 minutes. Then the
Grand Parade happened. It was quaint to
see the stewards galloping about on centaurs.
A hairy mammoth entered in the “smart
turn-out” division held things up by jibbing,
and it took half a dozen men and rop-s to
shift it. But it was a sight t 0 make a
man proud of his native land to see a
dinosaur ICO feet in length being led along
on a halter by a boy, and quite docile.
The M. from Iv. led the way round the
side-shows. The Fattest Boy in the World
and the Two-headed Bull and all those things
w'ere back numbers. Instead, they had the
only live satyr in captivity, and Mr. Briggs
was coining money showing the original
model for the Venus de Milo. At the Indus-
trial Pavilion a man was demonstrating how
Sit could be made by rubbing two sticks
together inside 20 miuutes; complete set for
domestic use, seven bob, and cheap at the
price. The Machinery Pavilion was pretty
empty. There was one wooden plough on
view, with yoke, to be drawn by the farmer’s
wife and children. The sheep pavilion had
been all remodelled to accommodate the
woolly rhinoceros, which the M. from _ Iv.
said was the brightest hope for Australia’s
future. The latest breed gave two tons of
wool to the rhino, and the grazing problem
had been solved because the animal had
learnt to live on gum-tips, which it felled
with its horn. Country that would carry
one rhino to the square mile was considered
first-class grazing. Over in the poultry sec-
tion the champion in the pterodactyl egg-
laying competition was encountered —a
vicious-looking bird. “But, bov, what a
layer!” exclaimed the M. from Iv. proudly.
“One egg will feed a family of seven!”
The Showman and the M. from K. got
back to the grass in the ring again eventu-
ally and sat down. It was warmer than
ever. The Showman said; “Well, once more,
what is the strong of it? I mean, what has
happened? Where are the horses? What’s
happened to the caterpillar tractors. In
short, what the blazes?” So the M. from
Iv., discovering at last that he had to deal
with Rip Van Winkle, explained matters.
It seems, then, that while the Showman
was sleeping or something the Economic
Depression got worse and worse, and an
economist discovered that the whole trouble
was machinery. We had such a lot of
machinery, and the machinery was turning
out so many goods that we couldn’t buy
them fast enough or something, so the
machinery had to stop, and everybody lost
his job, and there was wholesale unemploy-
ment. Well, this economist chap said : “Let’s
scrap the machinery. • It takes more men
to look after a horse than it does to look
after a motor vehicle, so there will be more
work going. And the horse doesn’t do half
as much work as a motor-car.” So there
were processions of mokes through the
streets to popularise the movement. The
idea caught on, and the politicians made a
law of it. It was a grand success, but it
didn’t stop there. If back to the horse
Then the Grand Parade happened.
made things better, why not back to the
icthyosaurus? So the breeders got busy,
and they bred from throw-backs until they
were producing all sorts of old forms of
life that had disappeared from the earth
for mons and aeons. Of course, they made
mistakes. Some of the new animals were
intractable and ate their breeders. But the
horse-breakers soon turned to brontosaurus-
breaking, and everything went swimmingly.
And. of course, other things went on similar
lines. For instance, matches were replaced
with firesticks. That got rid of a .lot more
of the soul-destroying machinery, Work!
There was more work than anybody had
ever imagined possible. You got up in the
morning at four, and by five you had the
fire lighted, if you were lucky. You shaved
with a stone axe, and you gave yourself three
hours to get to the office, because the electric
trains had been abolished in favor of the
brontosaurus ’buses. And, so the M. from
K. declared, they would be abolished soon,
because the movement had been so success-
ful that some people were advocating getting
back to pedestrianism.
“They haven’t gone back to water?” asked
the Showman anxiously. No, things weren’t
as bad as that. So a coupler beers were
purchased, and the Showman began to feel
that even the new Stone Age was bearable.
It all seemed damn silly, but so many
things that seem damn silly are. advocated
by leading economists and politicians that
there must be something in them. After a
coupler more beers the Showman found the
exit gates and lost the. M. from K. The
first thing he saw outside was. an electric
tram, which didn’t seem to fit in somehow.
So he went home and wrote down his experi-
ence before the impression faded.
As the Gilsullivan season at Sydney Her
Majesty’s progresses first nights become more
and more like large-scale family reunions.
It is a convention of these gatherings that
Ivan Menzies is irresistibly funny: that a
great fuss should be made of him, and that
laughter should be the permanent back-
ground of his utterances. This is.good, for
Mr. Menzies, and, since laughter aids diges-
tion, good for the audiences, but there is a
strong element of affectation about the whole
business. The gentleman who plays the
Duko of Plaza Toro, Jack Point and Ko-Ko
so engagingly has many accomplishments.
He has humor in his toes; he speaks and
sings his lines exceptionally clearly, and he
catches the spirit of his characters. Rut he
is not the whole show. In “Tie Mikado,”
which on Saturday replaced “The Yeomen,”
John Ralston’s Poo-Bah is palpably a better
character study than Mr. Menzies’ Ko-ko, a
fair appraisal of the merits of the tw r o actors
being easy when each has the same nnpor-
tunities. Bernard Manning as the Mikado
is cast more suitably than has been his fate
in earlier productions, and Evelyn Gardiner
revels in the part of Katisha.
“The Mikado” w r as written, and most of
the music composed, some years before “The
Gondoliers” and “The Yeomen” were
evolved. Sullivan and W.S.G. knew very
little about Japan beyond the fact that Nip-
pon was a picturesque and rococo setting
for an extravaganza, and Sullivan’s efforts
to Orientalise his essentially English
notions of harmony and Counterpoint contain
nothing to enlighten the student of musical
ethnology. Rut the thing hangs together.
By some alchemy the score does fit the
scenery and the costumes, as well as illus-
trating the book. Even in some of his rous-
ing parodies on Verdi —such as are scattered
all over the Gilsullivan productions—there
is a little attar of Asia. The. orchestration
is a miracle of neatness and simplicity, and
most of the numbers play themselves. Mr.
MacCunn’s band lets them do so, which is
as it should be. The chorus is intelligently
trained, but, as in the other pieces, it looks
a bit better than it sounds.
* * *
The New Sydney Repertory Society, under
the directorship of veteran Scott Alexander,
made its debut last week at St. James’s Hall
in a shocker, Patrick Hamilton’s “Rope.”
The action of this three-act thriller is
continuous; the plot recalls the Loeb crime
in Chicago. Two young Englishmen strangle
an athletic undergrad. The corpse is con-
cealed in a large chest. They invite a. party
of friends; to dine off the chest: the victim’s
father and aunt, a gushing flapper, a nonde-
script youth and a cynical poet who has seen
war service. The poet becomes suspicious,
and after the party has broken up returns.
At the point of a sword hidden in his walk-
ing stick he secures the key to the chest and
opens it. The curtain rings down on the
bard whistling for the police. The unpleasant
theme is cleverly dressed in dialogue, and
the two murderers were competently played
by Dick Pockley and Geoffrey Gunn. Phillip
Lewis gave a nicely-finished performance as
the poet. Minor roles were filled satis-
factorily by Frank Bradley, Barbara Smith,
Raymond Tobias, Charles Armand and Jean
Lawson.
* # #
Several playgoers were seen to pinch them-
selves at Melbourne Comedy on Saturday
night. The occasion was the premiere of
“Cape Forlorn,” Frank Harvey’s own drama
of a M.L. lighthouse, with the playwright
in a leading role. • A really good drama, bril-
liantly acted, is such a rare experience in
these times that anybody could be excused
for thinking that he had fallen asleep and
was dreaming of a Williamsonian renais-
sance in some Utopia beyond his wildest
hopes. “Cape Forlorn” is set on a rocky
islet in a lonely place, but the place couldn’t
be half as lonely as the play, which hasn’t
had a companion of its own mental age since
“Young Woodley” or perhaps “.Tourney’s
End.” The tautness of Harvey’s dramatic
craftsmanship is as refreshing a . thing as
the absence of sentimentality in the psycho-
logy of the piece. The grand finale, where
the . Life Force, in the person of the head
lightkeeper’s wife, gets out her lipstick and
prepares for a fresh embarkation on the
ocean of experience, has been used before,
but here it has great significance because of
what has happened previously. The chit of
a girl, Mrs. Kell, who is the symbol of the
Life Force in full working order is, as her
elderly lighthouse-keeper husband remarks,
a harlot. She lives with the Australian
under-keeper, Henry Cass, while her lawful
mate is away on a trip and also when he
is ill. She plans to escape to Sydney with
her paramour, but when Kieling, the
absconding manager of a building society, is
Took the jumps as clean as a whistle.
wrecked on the island she changes her mind
and decides to escape with him.. She does
not even alter her determination when she
learns that the money he has embezzled in-
cludes savings the loss of which will com-
pel her husband to remain a prisoner on the
lighthouse for the rest of his days. Biolo-
gically, there is no such thing as morality.
It is something that has to be imposed on
the human organism via the mind, and Mrs.
Kell has successfully resisted it. She is
the primitive female, just as Cass is the
dominant, possessive male. She removes him
from her path with a revolver, and he dies
slowly enough to have time to reflect on the
way machinery can upset the natural order
of things. He was a Digger in France, and
he has always had his way with the girls,
and he never imagined any woman could get
the better of him. What a dirty trick of
Fate! Now the Life Force lady is left with
no other channel of escape but the embezzler,
and the police are approaching in the relief
boat to arrest him, so he is no good. Any-
how, he is a poor fish, with a mother com-
plex. So there are no regrets when he
throws himself into the sea and leaves his
coat behind. The Life Force picks up the
coat, feels in the pockets, finds the stolen
notes and stuffs them in her bag. Then as
the launch whistle is heard she performs
the lipstick act and the curtain descends.
As Cass, Harvey Adams is magnificent. His
performance just shows how many more good
actors there are than good plays. Harvey
as Captain Kell is a trifle histrionic, Jbut
he is hereby exonerated for supplying two
and a half hours of a play that is as near
the illusion of life as has been seen for
many a day. Iris Darbyshire is as good as
could be wished as Mrs. Kell. Pirie Bush
is well fitted to the role of the conscience-
smitten embezzler. John Fernside is sum-
cient for the needs of Rangi, a Maori roust-
about. There is too much bell and suit
atmosphere in the last act. Otherwise, no
complaints.
# *
Following on remarks in The Bulletin
concerning the dearth of Australian opera,
Fritz Hart produced two of his own works
at Melbourne Playhouse last week. .A he
Mr. Marples examining
a peke with the air of
a superman.
operas were written
and the production
decided on before
the remarks ap-
peared in this
paper, but to accept
the credit for such
events is usual, so
let it pass. “Pier-
rette,” Op. 13. is
written round the
theme that the ro-
mantic illusions of
adolescence are pre-
ferable to the reali-
ties of middle age.
It is a debatable
proposition, but as
a musical J. M-
Barrie the com-
poser states his
case with charm,
vivacity and humor,
and the nocturne
which marks the
passage of time
between the two ■ scenes of the play is full
of grace. None of these qualities were
shared by the principals, except. Lennox
Brewer and Beatrice Oakley, < who, as
Pierrot and Pierrette, showed an admirable
gift of pantomime without an excessive
amount of voice. On the other hand, Colin
Mcßae, as Uncle Luke, a retired colonel
from India* with a liver, exhibited satis-
factory vocal powers but less gift for panto-
mime than the average traffic cop. Gweneth
De Ravin, as his wife, sang well but acted
without address. “St. George . and the
Dragon,” a bit of rough fun in the mediaeval
manner, was revived and ndh so well. done
as formerly.
¥ # *
Bernard H’einze gave a large and apprecia-
tive audience a taste of his skill when he drove
a perfect opening tee-shot at the Melb. Phil.
Society’s open meeting at the Town Hall on
Saturday night The occasion was the sing-
ing of the whole of “Cavalleria Rusticana”
and excerpts from “Pagliacci,” Faust” and
“The Flying Dutchman.” “Senta’s Ballad”
was a par exhibition. When, with natural
swing, perfect approach and accurate timing
the ladies of the choir caused the ball to
reach its destination on the smooth and ver-
dant green, excited “ah’s” burst from a
critical gallery. The mental hazards of the
Kermesse chorus from “Faust” were nego-
tiated with equal skill. The prologue from
“Pagliacci” followed. Ernest Wilson extri-
cated himself from a difficult lie in masterly
style. Leonora Scott is a plus-four player
on her native heath; and her upright
stance and graceful swing made her render-
ing of Santuzza in “C. Rusticana” worth the
close attention of the throng. Isabel Biddcll
(Lucia) and Ernest Wilson CAlfio) pro-
duced championship form according to local
standards. And from the tee to the green
no club came amiss to the Uni. orchestra.
(It should be explained that, in the absence
of the musical critic, the golf reporter looked
in.)
* # #
The bright “Cousin from Nowhere” made
immediate appeal at Adelaide Royal. David
Graham’s arrival as hero bucks up the show
greatly; Lilian Crisp’s voice is well suited,
and Vera Spaull works hard and effectively
with Don Nicol in the comedy numbers.
¥ * *
Peter Dawson and Hambourg are filling
Adelaide Town Hall. The singer found time
to encourage a local composer, Horace Per-
k:ns, and to visit his old school, which
claims to have produced also Hans Heysen
and Daisy Kennedy.
* * *
Lyric-tenor Forrest Pearson in his recital
at the Teachers’ Hall, Brisbane, sang “You
in a Gondola,” “Go, Lovely Rose,” “Way-
farer’s Night Song” and “Oft in the Stilly
Night.” His voice suggests Mac Cormack’s,
but is lighter. Mr. Pearson was associated
with Shirley Lawson, the violinist, who
played Mendelssohn and Gluck very sweetly.
# ¥ *
From the manager of the. British East
African Broadcasting Co., Kenya Colony:—
On April 20 we gave a special programme to
Britain on our 7LO transmitter, wave length 49.5
metres. It was such a success that we are encouraged
to giye a special programme for Australia at 1300-
1400 GMT on October 1. Residents in Kenya who
have relatives and friends in Australia will be in-
vited to send personal greetings through the micro-
phone. The remainder of the programme will be
arranged for the special entertainment of Australian
listeners.
“Trebor”: A composer attracting atten-
tion in London is Constant Lambert, son of
George. Constant’s tone poem “The Rio
Grande,” based on a poem of the same name
by Edith Sitwell, was recorded by Columbia
about a year ago, and has been in Australia
for some months. At the ninth annual festi-
A triceratops as big as a haystack.
val of the International Society for Contem-
porary Music, held in Oxford and London a-t
the end of July, Lambert was represented by
a ballet, “Pomona,” and an orchestral piece.
This festival had never been held in England
before. Lambert and Vaughan Williams are
the only composers who have had two works
performed at one.


AT SMART PLACES
people are seen
weil-Known
EVERYWHERE
in tnis Beautiful C
ri /fee
At the A. J. C. Derby
At the JMelhourne Cup
C? 7 f/lci4 icl
At the Royal Ascot Races
At the Carlton Hotel, London
r~/n i t ee
At the Paris Opera.—’At the Ritz
At the Casino in Biarritz
(y e^iyinevnyt^
At the Hotel /Stephanie at Baden-Baden
At the Hotel Adi on in Bed in
*J/n even.
At the Xeatro Real in ALadrid
At San /Sebastien
At -Metropolitan Opera in AFew York
At the Breakers Hotel at Palm Beach
At Banff, Lake Louise
-//? jZlfot t
stcei
At the Jockey Cluh in Buenos Aires
At the Copacahana Palace Hotel in
Rio de Jamero
u
i
w
1
(5
d
£££
n
a
5,
7”
J
a
bs*
K
Wherever smart motor cars gather Chevrolet will alwavs he found
.
Every country in the world has
these centres of social life . . . the
theatres, the clu ks, hotels , and watering
places, where smart people gather.
so
Wky do people wko frequent tkese smart places
often ckoose Ckevrolet ... place it m tkeir garages
along-side of tke most expensive custom-kuilt cars
of tke world . . . and use it so often wken tk
ese
arger,
more cost
cars are at
tkei
eir comman
d?
Tk
ere are many reasons. Ck evro let is ckosen for
its convenience, its impeccakle good taste, its universal
suitakikty for all occasions. It is tke personal car
par excellence even tke standard models are ample
m tkeir comfort, finely finisked m every detail of
tkeir appointments, always satisfying m tkeir
steady smoo tk fl ow of six cylinder power.
of <
And Ckevrolet s de Tuxe models offer a range oi cars
witk tke extra touckes of luxury and smartness so
often demanded by tbe peop leoftke fashionable world.
This year Ch evro let koJ ies are longer, roomier, more
comfortable. This also explains tbe long beauty
of line that gives tbe car distinctive smartness.
You will admire tk ese Cbevrolets. See tbem . . .
go for a ride. Replace your present car with a
Chevrolet now. Prices start at £247 (plus
sales tax.) All models equipped with wire wheels.
Built by General Motors Holden's Ltd.,
Brisbane, /Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
DEALERS IN ALL
MAIN CENTRES
CHEVROLET


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTOAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company-
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
CHOIC
CIGAR
i®.'
0
EACH
4
m
.Mellow and cool, Club Hell Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
651 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ē
ABORIGINALITIES
“Doc.”: . Sorry to hear of the epidemic
among the koalas. Despite the wholesale
slaughter of the past, these poor little chaps
cannot be accused of injuring either farmer
or grazier, because their menu consists almost
entirely of gum-leaves. They store this diet
in an outsize in appendices. Colin McKenzie
has one on display in the Canberra College
of Anatomy; it resembles an elongated oiled-
silk tobacco pouch. If the craze for having
the appendix cut out spread from the lords
of creation to koalas, it would be the most
radical form of reducing ever applied.
sjs sfc
“Bkali” : The tagging of ludicrous names
on abos., referred to- by “C. Coral” (B.
9/9/’3l), sometimes provokes reprisals. In
Darwin, which takes its football almost as
seriously as does Melbourne, there used to
be three abo. teams who played every Sunday.
Some fellows from our team decided to go
out and see .a game. Vigorous barracking
was taking .place around the arena and
shouts of “Ivickumquick, Smithy,” “Pullcm-
dowri, Monty,” “Comeon, Mossy,” were heard
on all sides. It was the names of our players
that were being hurled around 'the ground ;
each Binghi had taken unto himself the name
of a player from one of the competition teams.
Years/after I left Darwin I occasionally
heard of the prowess of “Monty,” “Mossy”
and others of the black team.
<!' '!• '!• jJi
“E.S.”: Cattle are lost on the road in
more ways than one. Take the case of George,
who joined our camp on the Warrego, and left
low down on the Maranoa. In that section we
lost 20 bullocks and two good horses. When
leaving, George offered 30s. a head for the
lost stock, saying he knew the country and
would be mustering there with the station
stockmen. As the runs were very big the
drover in charge accepted the offer. We
learned afterwards that George recovered the
lot within a week ; also, that he had stocked
a fairly big selection through operating in
that way, besides providing cactle for
butchers.
“Tiki”: Probably the oldest of human
inventions, and certainly the most enduring,
are the toys and games of children. As
every ethnologist knows, these are very much
the same in all races and all stages of social
development. In the days before the white
men came the Maori kiddies amused them-
selves in very much the same way as the
youngsters of other and more highly civilised
lands. They shone particularly in string
games, mostly based on “cat’s cradle,” some
of which were brought to such a high degree
of complexity that grave and reverend seniors
knitted their brows over them. They had
whipping-tops and humming-tops, hoops,
elaborate kites of three distinct patterns,
darts, stilts, swings of various sorts, includ-
ing the “giant stride,” seesaws, skipping-
ropes, toboggans and jumping-jacks. The
kiddies played hide-and-seek and prisoners’
base, and both girls and boys delighted in
wrestling. There were many singing-games
—the primitive Maori was always making
and singing songs—and the liaha, or posture-
dance (the poi dance is of this genus) was
relished by young and old. The girls had
no dolls, the reason for which is to be found
in the Maori religion. One strange thing
remains to be recorded. When the white
men came the Maoris discarded most of
SO YOU COULDN’T BLAME COHOUN.
LEVIEN (the storekeeper): “That vas a nice liddle lod you palmed off on me as
British goods—that vas!”
COHOUN (the traveller ): “Veil, my poy, I had ’em in stock so long, svelp me, I thought
they’d become naturalised.”
their games, but the children did not adopt
those of the white people. The young men
have taken to Rugby football like ducks to
water, but the old men no longer make toys
and the children no longer play with them.
t'.z Jji ❖
“Dai R.”: Whilst mining at Tullamore
(N.S.W.) I fell in with an old platinum
digger, who, when I last saw him over 20
years ago, had given up the game owing to.
severe lung trouble. He looked then as if
two years would see him in a consumptive’s
grave. He is now well and strong and can
bellow like all the bulls of Bashan. He told
me that he’d been mutton-birding at Bald
Islands, and that a mate had induced him to
try the bird-oil, with the result that his lung-
trouble was cured in less than 12 months.
According to the old chap, the oil is also a
remedy for asthma, and (as a liniment) for
rheumatism and allied troubles.
“Yambergan” : The
astonishing p e r-
formance of the
Mossgiel (N.S.W.)
four-year-old who
was recovered after
being lost in the
bush for six days
(B. 16/9/’3l) has
been paralleled
many times in Aus-
tralian bush history.
T li e outstanding
features of these
wanderings haa; e
often been the dis-
tance covered and
the comparatively
sound condition of
the child, if water is
available and the
heat is not too
great. In the Moss-
giel case the infant
passed several nights
in the bush without
shelter under cold
and wet conditions,
but was compara-
tively little affected.
Had it been midsum-
mer, there would
probably have been
a different story to
tell, though most
people, given their
choice of weather
for such an experi-
ence, would prefer
it warm and dry.
The distance covered
by the toddler is
computed at 45
miles, or nearly
eight miles a day.
It would seem
almost incredible but for the fact that
long-distance feats of the kind have often
been done by lost children —so often, indeed,
that experienced searchers leave to others
the task of hunting round the homesteads,
and ring the country for tracks far out from
the lost one’s starting-point.
❖ * *
“Kooragai”: Two of
the best examples of bird
intelligence are shown in
the nesting habits of the
rifle-bird and the crested
bellbird. The rifle-bird’s
nest is often found with
the cast-off skins of
snakes twined about the
exterior. Near the Mac-
pherson Range I have
seen this gorgeous dancer
carrying parts of the
shed skin. The effect is
to scare off goannas and
..egg-eating birds.. The
crested bellbird adorns
its nest with the skins
and dead bodies of the
procession caterpillar—a
creature utterly distaste-
ful to the feathered tribe.
When travelling, the pro-
cessionists move in single
file, all touching one an-
other, sometimes forming
a line five or six feet in
length, and winding along
between trees like, a
hairy snake. Wh e n
camping or pupating they
heap together in a yel-
lowish bag, suspended
from the branch of a tree.
It is partly filled with a
noxious powder, and in it the skins are shed.
The. crested bellbird collects the skins, and
sticks them around the nest until the nursery
looks like a bunch of the beastly caterpillars.
As the birds never use any other species,
there is little doubt as to the purpose.
❖ :?-• *
“Tail Ivunika” : “Lau Na Sibona Dibamu”
(which freely translated from Motuan means
“I alone understand”) makes some references
to the Kuku-Kuku tribes of New Guinea
that require some correction. When I first
made the acquaintance of these people in
1910, they were a short, sturdily-built race
and wore the tappa-cloth raincoat, to which
was attached, not a fringe of cuscus tails,
but just one to each coat. As the Kukus do
not take kindly to civilisation, it is hardly
likely that their customs have changed or that
they have deteriorated physically to any ex-
tent in 20 years. It is many a day since
these people were thought to be nomads. The
SELLING A PUP.
OVERSEER: “That blanky mong of your a has been worryin’ the
sheep, and I’m goin’ to get me gun an shoot him.”
Tucker Tracker: “Well — well! I suppose I’ll,have to get rid
of him. ( Brightly) You don’t want to buy a good dory,
do ye[?]!"
prospectors of the Lakekamu goldfield came
across a number of small villages, some ol
them actually on the spurs of Mt. Lawson,
and when approaching a village were almost
invariably greeted with a shower of arrows.
The natives who live on the banks
of the Lakekamu below Tiveri junction, and
who appear to be their nearest neighbors,
know these ,tribes as the lariva, but hold no
intercourse with them. ' An unusual custom
amongst the lariva is the wearing by the
men of a short glass petticoat, similar to
those worn by women in other parts oi
Papua. One of the reasons they w 7 ere feared
by the coastal people was their habit of
attacking at night, lighting’ their way with
torches, made out of lengths of bamboo filled
with resin.
“o,pi” :.As ope/able. to. hark back to the
dark ages of I*apuan officialdom, I should like
to know the name of the oldrtime station
where “office hours” were in vogue (B.
23/9/’3l). When I first knew the country
some 30 years ago, the R.M. or A.R.M. w r as
also warden and patrol officer, in addition
to being postmaster, chief gaoler, justice of
the peace, registrar (of course, with power to
celebrate marriages), deputy-curator of iu-
testate estates, inspector of forestry and ot
pearl and beche-de-mer fisheries, together with
a lot of other jobs I cannot recall at the
moment. Ilis office hours were 24 a day, and
if, as often happened, lie was away on expedi-
tions for weeks, with no assistant to carry
on at the station, he needed them all to
catch up with the accumulated work he found
waiting for him on his return. Fresh native
laborers from Samarai were apt to turn
up at any hour of the day or night by the
craft that came north at odd intervals, and
it was no uncommon thing to be lugged out
of bed in the middle of the night to transfer
these boys from the storekeepers who brought
them up to the miners eagerly waiting for
their services, so that they might be on the
way to the goldfields as early as possible
the following day. There was no super-
annuation system then, and the nearest
medico was at Port Moresby, on the other
side of the island, though one was later
installed at Samarai, a mere couple of hun-
dred miles away by sea.
THE UNFORGIVABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Sol is well above the ’ills, an’ over by
the gate
The calves are bawlin’ for their feed —they
know it’s gettin’ late.
The milkin’ should be done by now, the
separatin’, too.
Yet ’ere I’m moonin’ round the yard with
fifteen cows to do.
It’s gointer be a bonzer day, for spring is
in the air;
Bleak winter-time is left be’ind —but I don’t
seem to care.
Let seasons come an’ seasons go, it matters
not to me,
Since I’ve found out Eliza Jane ain’t all
she ought to be.
As long as I can reckerlect I’ve ’ad the
same ideer
Concernin’ girls, an’ local tabs, ’ave reckoned
that I’m queer.
Per’aps they’re right—per’aps I am; but I
made up me mind
To give all skirts a miss in baulk until at
last I’d find
The perfect tart, upon whose name no ’int.
of scandal lay,
An’ in Eliza jane I thought—but that was
yesterday.
To-day I ’ate all women folk, the whole darn
lot, because
I’ve found out that Eliza Jane ain’t all I
thought she was.
The wondrous schemes I’d all planned out !
I reckoned by-an’-bye
To build a brand-new milkin’-yard, if not
another sty.
I meant to start a Jersey ’crd an’ sell me
’alf-bred calves,
For when a man gets ’arnessed up ’e can’t
do things by ’alves.
Now what’s the use? As little good to think
of might ’ave beens....
But in a year or two—who knows? —we
might ’ave ’ad machines.
Ale ’eart is broke, an’ I don’t care if all the
yearlings die,
For I’ve found out Eliza Jane is not the
real Mackay.
She ’elps ’er people run the farm, she always
does ’er share;
At cookin’, struth, I’ll guarantee no other
can compare.
But nothing’s perfect in this world, or that’s
the way it seems,
Since I’ve been forced to say farewell to
all me pleasant dreams.
Poor silly goat! I fancied that I’d copped
a snifter prize
Until last night I ’ears the truth—'er brother
put me wise.
If ’er own brother says it’s right there can’t
be any doubt....
But ain’t it crool to think that Lize don’t
strip ’er cows right out?
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


Preventive' treatment when symptoms display
That bronchial affliction is coming your way,
Relieves the mild phases which first you endure,
And makes the arrest of its progress more sure.
Preventive treatment is far the best way;
One dose to repel is as nine to: allay;
And purest and best for such treatment, be sure,
Is always Woods’ Great' Peppermint Cure.— Advt.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
SERVICE
The establishment of a Bank,does not in itself establish a Banking
Service. It provides only the machinery which is to be operated by
man for the service of man. The human factor is the vital spark
that gives life to a mere aggregation of buildings, books and currency,
and makes of them a friendly, helpful service for the convenience of ;
•\ the,people. . , r - L .. L
The Commonwealth Savings Bank extends'its facilities throughout
the length, and. breadth of Australia, through Branches and Post-office '
Agencies, and trained officers translate those facilities into-understand-
ing human service to the thrifty.
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
PARENTS SHOULD KNOW
THIS.
HOW TO SAVE MONEY BY MAKING
FAMILY COUGH REMEDY.
It is essential that all parents should know
how to save money by making their own
family cough remedy that will prove safe
and effective for every member of the family,
from the youngest baby up to the oldest
adult. Here is the recipe, given by a leading
chemist: Into a jug put four tablespoonfuls
of sugar, three of either treacle or honey,
two of vinegar, and a large breakfast-cupful
of warm water; stir until dissolved, and,
when cold, pour into a large bottle. Then
add a bottle of concentrated HEENZO (it
costs 2/- at all leading chemists and stores *,
and you will have a family supply equal iii
quantity and superior in quality to eight
ordinary-sized bottles of the usual remedies
for chest and throat ailments, which if
purchased in single bottles would cost up to £l.
You will be astounded at the speedy way
HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases the chest
and banishes coughs, colds, croup,.bronchitis,
influenza and whooping cough. Make it a prac-
tice to always have HEENZO in your home.*
“Cooramin”: On the stock route at Ero-
manga (Q.), usually called Eurongella from
the station homestead near by, we struck
a camp where all our efforts failed to hold
the mob; and we heard that no one else had
held a mob there through the night. We
were also told that someone had
been murdered in the locality. Old
warriors of the overland don’t take
much notice of that, but they be-
lieve that cattle see things that
humans can’t, for there are
“haunted camps” on the stock
routes where the quietest cattle
get the wind up. One place, how-
ever, had only a short-lived repu-
tation for being haunted. It was
a nice clear spot below Tambo, on
the Barcoo. Every mob that had
camped there had stampeded, but
it was discovered that the ghost
was an irascible old widow who
had a small selection. She wanted
the grass outside for her cows, and
resented the intrusion of drovers.
Her method was to sneak up and
lieave a stick into the mob while
the man on watch was on the oppo-
site side of the camp.
# $ *
“Maxie”: Riding through the
homestead paddocks I witnessed a
tragedy of the air. A kite-hawk,
pirate of the poultry pens, was
trying 'to , steal the eggs from a
blue-martin’s nest in the grass. ;
The - mother -bird drove him off '
again. and-again, following him to j
a height of 100 ft. and diving j
viciously at him, as he circled \
downward for another attempt.
Six times he tried, until, seem-
ingly fed up with her resistance,
lie swooped and seized her in mid-
air. He flew still higher, lowered
his claws, inspected the captive,
struck her twice with his beak, and
called -.shrilly to his mate, who,
coming instantly, adroitly caught
the martin as it was released from
the murderer’s talons. The second
hawk repeated the inspection and
also struck twice, then allowed the
bird to fall to earth, where I found it dead.
Both hawks then ravaged the nest, but
neither attempted to devour their victim, as
they would have done an unfledged bind or a
chicken from the fowlyard.
# * * =;!
“C. Coral”: One of the islands of Torres
Strait has a troop of. Sea Scouts, and in
connection with this there is a drum-and-fife
band. The fuzzy-haired boys are
keen on the musical part, and
usually turn out to greet visi-
tors in full uniform and with in-
struments going bravely. But
their choice of airs is limited, and
not always appropriate. Cele-
brating Anzac Day, they headed
a procession to the island ceme-
tery, playing with intense fervor
“Who Killed Cock Robin?” and
“Keep, the Home Fires Burning.”
“Dai R.”: In the world’s ornithological
records there. is no 1 instance of truer mate-
ship than that existing between the Aus-
tralian male and female mutton-bird. They
share the work of nest-building equally. Then
they go to sea. After about a fortnight the
male returns alone and gives the home a
final titivation. Comes then the missus and
lays an egg. The male does the incubating
for 14 days, being fed during that time by
his partner. The order of things is then
reversed for another fortnight. The hatch-
ing period is six weeks, and the birds halve
SHEER WASTE!
"It’s shameful extravagance, Angus! The doctor's only gie ye three months to live ,
and ye want to spend a shullin’ on a haircut!”
the final two weeks in two-day stretches, the
lady always taking the last shift. Until the
youngster is old enough to be left to fend
for itself, mother and dad split the task of
watching it. If danger threatens the parents
attack the invader with equal valor and sur-
prising co-operation in strategy. Many a
hard battle is fought in the breeding season
with razor-bill gulls, crows, etc., and victory
is almost invariably on the side of Mr. and
Mrs. Muttonbird.
“Wen”: Old-timers in the Mungindi
(N.S.W.) district got a thrill the other day
when a bullock team, 130 strong, dragged a
waggon containing 40 bales of w r ool through
the thick black mud between Glencoe station
and Neeworra siding. The team took an
appreciable time to pass a given point, even
on the firm road coming into Neeworra, and
its progress over the roads outside was pro-
longed and involved a lot of oratory.
-!" $
“.Clove Pink”: Strange things
are happening in the vegetable
kingdom. As recorded on this
page some time ago, the musk
’ plant has lost its scent. Now
the ordinary perennial or tree
carnation is playing up. Down
from, the misty ages the charac-
teristic .odor of the flower has
been that of cloves tempered with
a faint blend of rose. By some
subtle alchemy of . nature this has
suddenly chugged; to one remini-
scent of gaultheria or winter-
green, due to an essential oil
identical, with methyl, salicylate,
an ester chemically'- far removed
from either eugenol, the odorifer-
ous principle of ' cloves, or the
alcohols ‘of otto ..of rose. Curi-
ously enough, The change seems .
to bo confined to the perennial
carnation, which ; is ,vegetatively
: propagated. The annual variety, '.
grown, from seed, still retains, the true “car-
nation” odor. -
“Taniwha”: A tragedy of Mt. Ruapehu, in
Maoriland- afid an almost miraculous escape,
arc commemorated on the map of the region
by the name -Cochet Falls —wrongly named,
as it happens. The error was set right
recently by the survivor, Mrs. Stanley Irwin,
who 18 years ago was Mdlle. Coche, French
mistress at an Auckland girls’ school. Mrs.
Irwin owes her life to the recollection of a
bit of mountain lore picked up in her native
land —“Always follow a stream down hill
when lost.” She was a member of a party
climbing Ruapehu in March, 1913. One of
the men, W. M. Bingham, collapsed, and
other members of the party went on for
assistance, leaving Mdlle. Coche with him.
Bingham recovered shortly after, and he and
Mdlle.' Coche attempted to make the return
journey without waiting for assistance. They
were soon hopelessly bushed, but came, across
a small creek, along which they clambered
and waded, the bush being at this point and
for many miles downward absolutely im-
penetrable. They became separated while
negotiating a waterfall —the “Cochet” Falls
of the map—and Mdlle. Coolie, after shouting
and searching vainly for her companion, had
perforce to struggle on alone. For three
days and two nights she waded down the
stream. Her boots were soon in ribbons; the
water was icy cold, and her feet were gashed
and terribly frost-bitten. Just when she was
at the limit of her endurance she saw a
bridge ahead—the Manganui Viaduct —and
heard the shouts of a search party. Poor
Bingham’s body was found several days later.
H'e had slipped and struck his head against
a boulder, and was drowned in the creek.
All sorts of precautions against the recur-
rence of such a tragedy were recommended
by the coroner at the time, but nothing was
done.
“1.D.8.” : Everyone has heard of the man
who found a pearl in a fishshop oyster. In
Namaqualand, South Africa, the oyster and
the bookmaker’s joy go hand in hand, so to
speak. Diamond deposits have been located
on the ocean beaches and . in the sandhills
inland; diamond-bearing ground is invari-
ably indicated by an outcrop of fossilised
oysters, among which the stones arc found.
How they got together has everyone guess-
ing. In the Ivulamadau goldmine on Wood-
lark Island, Papua, fossilised crocodile-bones
used to be found in conjunction with the
gold-bearing ore, but there was ample evi-
dence there that volcanic disturbance had
mixed up the different strata.
* .. * * *
„ “Macti”: There has been a good deal of
discussion lately about the habits of the tro-
chus, the conical shell-fish from which shirt
buttons are made. Scientific .investigators
state that it remains in one spot, and that
marked specimens have not travelled more
than, a few inches from their own front
doorstep in the : course of 12 months. The
island boys maintain that the savants are
wrong, and that the trochus not only l travels
long distances but also moves fairly rapidly
when he likes. In proof,of this they cite
instances where the ocean'bottom lias been
cleaned up by a boat'and has yielded another
good haul to a lugger coming along to the
same spot 24 hours later. Boys also
describe the migrations of battalions of
the shell-fish which they have seen moving
along the ocean bottom. A Torres islander
had an idea of cultivating trochus, and
ldaced a number of the young shells in a
convenient spot not far from the shore
where he could keep close watch. One fine
day he discovered that his pets had walked
off into better pastures, and he now dreams
of wire-netting enclosures. Of course there
may be more than one sort of trochus.
IIATTER SHEARING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All the paddocks wave a glory in the sunset’s
minted gold,
The bloodwoods. sprawl beneath a silver
foam ;
The young lambs are frisking by the ewes
around the fold,
And the breezes carry perfume where they
roam.
Laden brown bees hum their secrets around
the orange-grove,
Where mated red-bills’ nestings have
begun;
And grey galahs in noisy flight, where station
cattle rove, ....• ,
Breast westward, flashing scarlet in the
sun. • - '
But the calm contentment's lacking nature-
lovers • mostly find,
And harsh, discordant moods will not
abate';
It’s lonesome since the shed cut out and I
have stayed behind
To barber straggling jumbucks sans a
mate.
For the shed’s more like a dead-house than
a.hive of industry;
No more the grumbling headgears grind
and groan;
I’m straining to position while the Wolseley-
gut swings , free,
Exploiting fancy curses on my own.
There’s no , busy, super. ; checking at the end
; of ev’ry run,
To call the ringer’s tally two-score-ten,
With the rager raying 'wildly he is five
behind the gun,
And blithering of a faulty counting-pen.
So I bustle, gouge and niggle on the woollies,
large and small,
Imagining I’ve, cobbers on the job.
When the smooth-wools quickly dwindle to
the cobblers, stout and tall,
I miss my snowy pen-mate on the snob.
Then the meal-times add more bother, with
the kettle and the pan;
I’ve one fare through the week of nigins..
and noons—
No time for fancy cooking when one’s
scratching as scratch can ;
It’s rock-me-dollies, chops and pufftyloons.
And when the night falls sombre, lighted
only by the stars,
No voice, no music penetrates the gloom,
As when the carefree brothers twanged their
throbbing steel guitars
And nightly drew us to the third-end room.
A DIGGER’S TALE.
COLONEL: “You were late entering barracks last night. What have you to say
about it?”
PRIVATE DAGGS: “I was getting back in plenty of time, sir. The wind being in my
face, I turned round to light my pipe, and, without thinking, sir, kept walking
in the wrong direction.”
COLONEL: “Ugh, yes—the sort of damn lie that might happen to anybody. Don’t
come here again ! ”
It’s just bustle, tear and tussle from each
sunny morn till eve,
With rigid concentration on the pain.
I’d like to hang my Wolseley, but I can’t
afford to leave;
So it’s ache and sleep and back to toil
again.
QUEENSLAND.
P. JAMES IRVINE .


I offer you at
CarJyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in tearoom
or cafe. Full board
10/6 per day, 65/
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations A
for con- i
ferences, J
teams” sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
■
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum w^ar.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M.414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor
+Ceramic . .
*Anchises . .
tEuripides . .
*Ascanius . .
15,000 tons,
18,500 „
10,000 „
15,000 „
10,000 „
Oct. 6
Oct. 26
Dec. 1
Dec. 9
Jan. 18, *32
•First class only. t First and third class,
t Cabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
SMOKE-OH!
LAW OF THE TIMES.
Smith does his travelling now in trams. No
more
In costly taxis does he tear about,
lie’s learned a, truth he never knew before —
With income taxes, taxis must come out.
T. N.
* #
“The unrest among the E.N. ratings took the
Admiralty by surprise.”— “Herald.”
Like a. bolt from the bluejackets, so to
speak.
* #
“Many of our so-called public men are like a
lot of old hens.”— “Cynic” in the “Sun.”
Except that they only lay foundation
stones.
* *
“Many N.S.W’. citizens are being reduced by the
Government to the condition of Adam and Eve.”
There’s another resemblance, too —they’re
raising Cain.
THE WORLD-BEATER.
There was excitement in Paradise. Word
had passed aro'und that a remarkable Aus-
tralian was to arrive that day, though done
could say with certainty what the new-
comer had done to justify all the fuss. When
at last the gates swung open and Peter was
seen to be shaking the hand of an unassum-
ing little lady of 40 or so, amazement knew
no bounds. She looked anything but a
celebrity.
“Ladies and gents.,” began the Patri-
arch, and all ears were strained. “We
have with us to-day Mrs. Smith, of Sydney,
Australia. Although the number of Aus-
tralians here is but small, yet we have heard
often of their wonderful State of New South
Wales and of its idol, Mr. Whiddon. Need
I descant on his glorious lottery? Need I
mention his patron Mr. Jack Lang? No, Suf-
fice it to say that but for them we should
not be welcoming this world-famous lady in
our midst to-day. Archangels, angels and
ministers of grace, meet Mrs. Mary Jane
Smith, the first person in tlie wotld’s history
to be crushed to death in a lottery queue.”
* ¥
“Sentence was suspended on her entering into a
band for £5O to be of good behavior for 12 months.”
—“Herald,”
The band of hope is indicated.
THE POSSIBLE CATCH IN IT.
BIG SISTER: “Do you know you’ve got a little baby-brother?”
HERSERT: “Gam! But did he bring his own toys?”
“The leader of the slim-figures-for-men movement
in England, is, of course, Edward of Wales.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
And the leader of the lean-figures-for-busi-
nessmen movement is Jack, of New South
Wales.
It’s difficult to estimate the exact number
of unemployed to-day; but they must total
thousands, all doled.
PERFECT LADY.
“Miss Maisie Gay, who in her recently-published
book says ‘When anyone mentions Australians I
shudder to think of their dreadful expressions such
as “bonza” and “goodoh,” ’ is best known for her
impersonations of elderly drunks.”
“Yes, dearie (hie!), whenever I think of
them common Aussies (parss the gin, there’s
a love) I come over all goosey-flesh like.
Sich expressions! ‘Bonza!’ Think of 'it!
The idee of an English lydy so demeaning
herself as to use sich langwidge—liic! (Bo
’ave another, lovie. Just the teeniest snifter
with yer old Auntie—hie !)
“To resoom (hie ! hie ! Blarst these ’ere
'iceups!). I gets to Aussie, an’ the first
thing I finds out is they ain’t got no ’umor.
Tried that one about the vicar an’ the ’ouse-
maid on ’em, an’ if you’ll believe me (hie!
hie!) I didn’t get an ’and. What I dam'
nearly did get from the ’ounds was the bird.
“After the show one of them Tait fellers
comes round an’ ’e says (hie!), ‘Not so much
of it, see,’ ’e says. ‘Yer can’t put stuff like
that acrorst in a decent ’ouse’ (hie! hie!).
“With that I fergot for the moment I was
an English lydy an’ swung ’im one. ‘Take
that (hie!), yer sorey dorg,’ I says. An’
then me womanly emotions got the best of
me, an’ I .started to weep like, what I’m
doin’ now. Wep’ as if me ’art ’ud break, I
did. Parss the gargle—— What? Orl
finished! Well, open another bottle, yer
—- fool, while I gets an ’ankerchief an’
dries me eyes; and then I’ll tell yer some
more of the goings-on of them vulgar Aus-
sies (hie! hie!).”
“Intoxicated girls are common at charity dances
in Adelaide,” says Mr. Hugh Hudson, organiser of
the Adelaide Citizens’ League.
As a matter of fact they’re common,
Wherever they are!
* V
BED, BOARD AND LIMELIGHT.
“ ‘Of course, I’ll be worrying when “Cliilla” is
away, but then I made him promise to be back
within 23 days, and I’m sure he will,’ said Mrs.
Kingsford Smith to the ‘Daily Telegraph.’ ”
“ ‘Two of the greatest thrills of my life have
occurred within a week of - each other,’ said Mrs.
Palmer to the ‘Daily Telegraph.’ ‘The first was
when I became Ambrose’s bride, and the second
was when I became the wife of a champion at the
Stadium on Saturday night. The first thing I said'
to him after he stepped from the ring was “Hullo,
champ.” ’ ”
It recalls the Empress Josephine’s com-
ments to the Paris “Gloire” on learning the
result of the battle of Austerlitz. “I just
knew he’d do it,”
and the proud wifie
smiled ever so hap-
pily. “Did I think
those horrible Ger-
mans, or whatever
they are, could stand
up to my Nap for a
single second? Not
likely! And now
just tell the fans
front me that I’m
looking forward to
the dear boy’s re-
turn after he’s
mopped up the
Italians and Rus-
sians and a' few
more, and here’s my
photo in the new
pelisse he sent me.
Toor-o-loo!”
“They can say
what they like about
my Leon,” said Mrs.
Trotsky to the Con-
stantinople “Guar-
dian.” “What’s a
few murders, after
all? And Lee ain’t
the first to stage a
pogrom, not by long
chalks. As I says
to Mrs. Lenin—or rather to the female who
was passing as such at the time —it’s the
home virtues as counts. How that man
worships me! Care for -a photo of us on our
Wedding day! Here you are, dearie, and
mind you give it a splash display.”
“He da gooda hosbin,” said Mrs. Capone,
on learning from the “Police Gazette” that
the head of the family would be away for
some years. “Telia da woild I say so—l,
Carlotta Maria Capone, da besta wife wit da
besta bambinos in Chi. Dissa hees favorita
machine-gun. I keepa heem oiled—how you
say?—for remembrance.”
Mrs. Jas. Moron, wife of the £5OOO lottery
winner, was outspoken to “The Daily Pryer.”
“I can’t understand why they’re making such
a fuss of him,” she complained. “What
about me? Who saved up the ss. 3d.? Who
stood in the queue in case he blewed the cash
on beer, the waster? Who looked after the
ticket? Me. And who’s going to look after
the £5000? Me. And I’d be obliged if you’d
tell your readers so. I’m the member of this
family that the public wants to keep its eye
on. and don’t you forget it.”
* *
“Accused took the money to back a ‘certainty’
which lost. He has since been paying the money
back by instalments.” —Melb daily.
Working off a “dead” horse, as it were.
* ¥
QUEUE.
“The lottery is a disgrace, and I am surprised at
a modern community standing for it.”-— Sydney cleric.
Though Whiddon started it off well,
Hiring a fine brass band for it,
It still is most, remarkable
To see so many stand for it!
HIS SCORE.
WIFE: “You’re nothing > but a lazy, good-for-nothing
loafer!"
HUSBAND: “Ho, am If- And ’oo is it earns the unem-
ployed dole for. you, I’d like ter know?”
“Mr. Sculliji, in praising the wealth of bloom at
Canberra', . said; more should be done to make the
beauties of the capital known.”
Some of the beauties down there have been
advertised by their wealth of bloomers
already.
* *
“Charged with selling underweight wood, accused
said he was delivering it for a man named Short.”
It was appropriate that the buyer should
be short, too.
His grip tightened around the little hand
nestling so lovingly in his. For years he
had dreamed of the day when this should
happen. Now he could dare anything, rise
to heights which he had never visioned. His,
and his alone! He smiled confidently at
his rivals.
“All see me?” he said. “Right! Pass the
pool this way. I’ve got a royal routine.”
H- #
“Chicagoans living outside the U.S.A.
number 386,272.” Those living inside fre-
quently lose their number.
* *
“There are fewer cars on N.S.W 1 . roads than at
any time during the last five years.”
But not fewer scars on N.S.W. pedestrians.
¥ *
“The confidence man stood in the baking sun cn
the street corner, alert in spite of the stifling heat.”
—“ World’s N ews. ”
Looking out for some cool change, most
likely.
COLOR QUESTION.
“It is noticed that Sydney is going in for color
more and more.” — “Argus” correspondent'.'
The prevailing hues at Trades Hall are
red and green—the Garden push being red and
those who listen to them green. In the
vicinity of Parliament House many yellow
streaks and white feathers are to be observed,
the prevailing shade of the atmosphere here
being purple shot with lurid crimson. About
50 per cent, of Sydneyites have been declared
black, while another large section, compris-
ing Savings Bank depositors and others,
affirms that Jack Lang and his associates
have done them brown. Over the whole city
the chief tint is blue, but optimists claim
to discern silver linings.
The week’s most extraordinary news item
appeared in an evening paper’s
section. What made it so extraordinary w i
that it was actually in the stop-press se
tion.
* * „
“Accused was under tbe influence of liquor. „ tie
drove as if he was chasing a snake.” — “Herald.
And he probably thought he was hurrying
away from millions of ’em.
* *
CHANGE OF FASHION.
1921. —Look at her with her Rolls-Royce
and thousand-guinea furs! Makes me sick.
Had the impudence to tell me — me, mind,
who knew her husband when he was broke,
which I’m by no means sure the sly brute
isn’t still—that people of her
class can’t live in Australia,
so she’s going to settle m
England. A house in May-
fair, if you please, and an-
other in the country, where
she and her brood are going
to hunt. She loves hunting—
so “exclusive.” Pah ! You d
find, if the truth were known,
that there are scores in Syd-
ney who have made more
money than her husband, only
they aren’t vulgar enough to
skite about it.
1931.—L00k at her getting-
on the tram in her moth-
eaten clothes! Makes me
sick. Had the impudence to
tell me— me, mind, who knew
her husband when he was
well off, which I’m by no
means sure the sly brute
isn’t still —that people of hex-
class can’t live in England,
so she’s going to settle in Aus-
tralia. A flatette in Bondi,
if you please, handy to the
beach where she and her
brood are going to surf. She
loves surfing —so “demo-
cratic.” Pah! You’d find,
if the truth were known, that
there are scores in Sydney
who have lost more money than her hus-
band, only they aren’t vulgar enough to
skite about it.
* *
“A screen farce is surely out of place in prisons.”
—Sydney parson.
On the principle of “No jest for the
wicked.”
* *
The catch about motoring is that ,by the
time you’ve paid off the car it has ceased
to be one.
* *
“Sydney’s sub-tropical beauty is marred by beggars
nowadays.”— “ Herald■”
He strolled in tropic Sydney , where
The prospect is bewitching,
And found along his pathway there
That spreading palms were in the air —
And every palm was itching.
FEDERAL FINANCE.
MRS VAMP: “Lend me a pound.”
MR. VAMP: “Not a farthing....you owe me
a tenner already.”
MRS. VAMP: “Well, take it out of that.”
“Fluctuating prices of softgoods do not trouble
the heads of the natives of Nusi, where the women
wear fig-leaves and the men nothing.”— I ‘‘Sun.”
Evidently their Lang got his Wage Tax
Bill through.
HIS ANGEL.
“You. are my angel," Horace swore,
His eyes with passion’s frenzy lit.
His love-affair was done before
He knew the dreadful truth of it.
In court he found, to his dismay,
She’d brought his letters on the scene;
Ah, then he knew, indeed, that a
Recording angel she had been!
P.
PENALTY.
The gay sheik gave the girl a wink.
She took it without blinking;
Then smiled and blushed a lovely pink,
And they were wed. like winking.
“And now," he says, in sorrow deep,
“I cannot get a wink of sleep."
H. M.
IN SYDNEY.
My face became haggard.
I said, “I am staggered!
Am I sane, or becoming a madman.
I had purchased a “Sun,”
Scanned each page one by one,
And for once found no photo, of Bradman •
MC.


INSIST ON THE
LONC BOTTLE
aiVes his resCbson.
“It’s well worth the tussle of a hard-
fought set if there’s a long bottle of
Resch’s Pil sener waiting to be
opened!
“Just one glass is sufficient to restore
depleted energy ...to moisten a
parched throat ... and you’re ready
or another dozen games!
“All the best players insist on it these
days... Pilsener, please—in the
long bottle!”
RESCH'S PILSENER


mm- d
i ii'A-
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bri4(c Street. Sydney.
s*
The Great Banff Springs Hotel.
BANFF
Nile high Mountain
Report on the way
to England
On your way to England, stop over at Banff,
in the Canadian Rockies—Mecca of world
tourists. See the sun rise over a hundred
snow peaks—ride out into the scented pine
woods —swim in a glass sheltered warm sul-
phur pool—golf in a lovely green valley—
enjoy the social attractions, the comforts and
service of a palatial mountain hotel. The
magnificence and pleasures of Banff are only
reached by the C.P.R. route to England.
Write for illustrated literature and details.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
2/31.2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Jhe World's Greatest Jravel System
QUEENSLAND
Is Your Market!
Why not exploit it fully? Its favor-
able position is known and admitted
by everyone.
Tell the people of Queensland of your
goods and services. There is no better
vehicle open to you than the press—
the most powerful of all advertising
mediums. Particularly should your
first choice be
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
the only daily in Brisbane that has
issued a certificate of its Dailj
circulation, and the paper that is a
proved result-getter. Rate cards, etc.,
from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ROBERT JACKSON: Daily Mail Office,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT & SON, New Bridge St.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
lODINE IN THE LICK.
“B. Sure”: Progress reports on iodine
feeding experiments in England suggest that
this element is a remedy for contagious
abortion. I hope so. I hope also that manu-
facturers of stock licks and concentrated
fodders in Australia will consider the advisa-
bility of adding finely-ground oyster-shell,
the soft yellow fossilised limestone, or plios-
phatic marl intensely ground to their pro-
ducts for the purpose of supplying iodine in
lieu of the costly potassium iodide. The sub-
stances enumerated are known to contain
comparatively appreciable amounts of the
element evenly distributed throughout their
mass. This is not so with other forms of
lime carbonate; for example, calcite or the
grey limestone. Generally speaking, the
purer the limestone the less the content of
iodine.
The method of adding iodine to stock licks
and foods by dissolving the chemical in water
and spraying it on during admixture has a
double disadvantage. There is uneven dis-
tribution of the iodine, and it may disappear
as such owing to oxidation and absorption.
My suggestion is that *he best results can be
secured by feeding it as elemental iodine and
not as one of its compounds. The advantage
of using intensively ground shell, limestone
or marl with a natural, evenly distributed
iodine content should appeal to the manufac-
turer of stock foods and licks and to the
farmer as well.
I discussed the matter with a successful
Gippsland dairyman. “If iodine is a cure
for contagious abortion.” he said, “it will
come as a blessing in Victoria. Personally
I keep my herd fairly free of the trouble by
washing Strawberry out, when in season,,
with a tepid solution of equal parts of salt
and baking-soda (4oz. of each) and a tea-
spoon of boric acid to the gallon of rain-
water ; but it’s a bother. I’ll give the oyster-
shell a trial in my salt-bone lick and observe
results.”
BULK HANDLING FOR WESTRALIA.
The Westralian Government, urged on by
G. H. Sutton, its Director of Agriculture, is
keen on introducing bulk handling of wheat
as a method of bringing down costs, and has
tried hard to get the necessary advance
through the Loan Council. Whether it will
use for this purpose portion of the money to
be made available by the banks remains to be
seen.
Mr. Sutton in a long report which has
been issued to the press estimates that
bulk handling would mean a savins' to the
Westralian farmer of 4d'. a bushel. This is
questionable, but the director maintains that
“even if the saving were only 2d. a bushel,”
or if the only result were “the substitution,
without net loss, of jarrah and Australian
galvanised-iron for Indian cornsaeks,” the
change would be “well worth while.” But to
him it is inconceivable that the replacing of
manual labor by mechanical power would not
be of substantial benefit to the farmer. “There
must be savings. There arc savings: our
millers have proved it.”
The reference to jarrah and galvanised-
iron shows that this distinguished public
servant takes the broad Australian view.
Fourpence a bushel looks a bit optimistic,
though Westralian conditions are probably
more favorable than those in N. S. Wales;
but it is true, as Mr. Sutton says, by way
of conclusion, that “Westralia cannot afford
to ignore the possibilities of bulk handling
when so much depends upon reducing costs
to .save our main industry.”
LUPINS IN VICTORIA.
“Bad Australian”: A considerable diver-
sity of opinion exists as to the value of the
lupin as a fodder plant. The experience of
Mr. G. C. Stanley, of Mornington, appears
to be conclusive —at least as far as his part
of Victoria is concerned. Influenced by
press reports of the value of the plant as
a green fodder, he sowed a test plot with
blue lupins. Germination was perfect, and
a dense stand of succulent herbage resulted,
but, unfortunately, stock could not be
induced to eat it, even when taken off the
barest paddock on the property.
At maturity the crop reached a height of
oft. Gin. and harvested seven bags of seed.
The seed proved to be of as little food value
as the plant; poultry refused to eat it. The
first rains started a self-sown crop, similar
in density to the first, and as there was
nothing else for it this was ploughed in. The
lupin may be of considerable value as a
soil-improver or as green manure, but if Mr.
Stanley’s experience may be regarded as a
criterion it is a wash-out as a fodder plant.
PRIMARY PRODUCER AND
EXCHANGE.
In the early months of the exchange diffi-
culty there were doubts whether the primary
producer was getting all the benefit of the
premium; but there is no doubt that very
soon, on the average, full allowance was made
—and is still made—by buyers in Australia
for the difference in the English and Aus-
tralian f. An Australian firm making very
large purchases abroad decided early last
year to buy wool in Australia and sell abroad,
owing to the difficulty of getting accommoda-
tion from the banks. This firm has now
received account sales for monthly shipments
May-December. Crediting its purchases at
the current rate of exchange, the result shows
that the primary producer got an average of
5 p.c. above London parity for liis wool.
AWAY WITH THE DRAFT!
“GG6” : One result of the slump in new
season’s wool prices has been a revival of
the agitation by Australian woolgrowers
against the continuance of the traditional
“draft” allowance. In essentials, the draft
amounts to the deduction by the buyer of
one pound per hundredweight of wool from
the weight actually purchased. This is sup-
posed to cover wastage and loss of weight
during delivery. As a matter of fact, the
draft is a relic of a trading custom in the
wool and other textile industries which
existed long before Australia was heard of.
In the Middle Ages the allowance to a cus-
tomer waiting for his consignment might
have been justified. To-day, with modern
methods of packing and certainty of delivery,
all necessity for it has long vanished.
Nevertheless, the buyers and users of the
raw product overseas cling steadfastly to the
principle of the draft, and there can be no
doubt that it brings them in an over-rid-
ing profit. For years Australian woolgrowers
have been protesting against what is nothing
more nor less than a sanctioned extortion.
The protests have fallen on deaf ears, and
have even given rise to definite action on the
part of buyers in the direction of maintain-
ing the rake-off system. Nearly 10 years
ago, Australian selling brokers were asked by
producers to abolish the draft and hold wool
from sale until this was done. London buyers
were advised that the graziers’ and farmers’
associations had specially asked for the aban-
donment of the draft system. Tne British
Wool Federation replied with a manitesto to
the effect that its members would not buy
wool in Australia save with the draft pro-
viso. They instructed their Australian agents
to this effect, and the matter dropped for
the time being.
Last year, however, the dispute cropped
up again at a conference of Australian sell-
ing brokers and woolgrowers. The brokers
were asked to give their reasons for desiring
to maintain the draft. They declared that
if it were not allowed trade disruption would
follow, while many claims for loss of weight
would be received, and buyers would have to
reduce their pi’ices to cover the additional
cost. Another point raised was that the draft
and other rebates were provided for in buyers’
overhead charges, and that if the draft were
abolished these charges would have to be
increased. Finally, the tearful assertion was
made that it was not worth while risking
“peaceful relations” between producer and
buyer over “such a small matter.”
The aforesaid relations have for years taken
on more the aspect of armed neutrality than
peace, and the grower who has had to
put up with this undesired “cumshaw” is
far from looking on it as a small matter. In
spite of the difficulty in fighting trade pre-
judices and overcoming vested interests, there
is a determined move among woolgrowers to
end the nuisance, and ways and means of
doing so are being sought. Meanwhile, the
matter is to be referred to the Empire Wool
Marketing Conference.
CLASSING SMALL MERINO CLIPS.
“Floodmark”: In N. S. Wales there are
about 6000 sheep-farmers who run one to
two thousand sheep apiece. Poorly-got-up
clips on view at wool stores come mostly
from this class of grower. Slummed work in
the shearing-shed means loss to the indi-
vidual farmer and a huge loss to the State.
Any woolgrower can satisfactorily prepare
his wool, provided he has ample help during
the shearing. For the owner of a small
flock a two-stand shearing plant is usual. In
dealing with wool therefrom my method is to
have one man to pen up for shearers, brand
shorn sheep, press and brand wool, and be
generally useful. I myself pick up the fleeces,
throw them on the wool table and very care-
fully skirt them.
My farm is in trefoil-burr country. I
find it impossible to skirt all the burrs off.
A few will be found even on the backs, and
woolbuyers value the whole as . burry. I
ignore the burrs; treat as though free of
seeds and burr, and simply skirt the short,
heavy and stained wool off. The rolled fleeces
I then class into four separate bins. All
the obvious longer and coarser fleeces are
branded “2nd Comb”; all the fleeces that
are the mean average of the clip are branded
“Ist Comb”; those which are obviously
shorter and finer, yet of good color, go as
“Ist Cloth.” The fourth sort will contain
all cull fleeces —the short and coarse, the
heavy yolky and bad colored matted wool and
tender fleeces; they are branded “A Fleece.”
The wool from, say, 1500 sheep so classed
should press about 18 bales of “Ist Comb, ’ 6
bales each of “2nd Comb” and “Ist Cloth,’
and one bale of “A Fleece.”
The skirting, bellies, locks and stains I
treat in the same careful manner. Unless
there is an additional man employed to sort
these, I place them temporarily aside in
woolpacks and attend to them on the first
wet day, or leave them until shearing is
complete. Anyway, skirtings and bellies are
individually spread upon the table and skirted
in their turn. Stained wool is kept separate
and branded “Stained”; short, heavy and
seedy or burry pieces are branded “2nd
Pieces”; bulky' parts of britch, sides and
neck are branded “Ist Pieces”; skirted bellies
are branded “Bellies.” The locks and shearing-
board sweepings put over the wool table and
all bulky wool taken from it are put with “2nd
Pieces” or “Stains”; the balance is branded
“Lox.” All bales should weigh not less than
2cwt., and the whole clip should be branded
neatly with clearly-cut stencil plates. Brand
the bale on one side only (that which faces
the press door) downwards, as follows:
Owner’s initials, name of farm, name of dis-
trict, class of wool, ewes, wethers and
number of bale. The whole thing is simple.
Do the work thoroughly and a well-got-up-
clip results.
IN THE BUSH-FIRE SEASON.
“Crom”; Now that the bush-fire season
is drawing near, be careful how you handle
those wax matches. A wax match can be
ignited a considerable time after it is
dropped; a horse standing on it or a rat
eating it may do the damage. Burn breaks
wherever you can while the grass is still too
green to burn properly. See that your
beater is in good order, and have it and your
water-bag (fire-fighting is thirsty work)
where you can get them immediately—in the
dark if necessary.
The best beater is made of four strips of
leather, Bin. or 4in. wide and 2ft. to 2ft. 6in.
long, with two cross-pieces riveted on to hold
the strips in place. Fasten it to a light,
firm handle; have it soft and well greased.
A bag tied to a stick, which is so often seen,
is worse than useless ; it spreads more fire
than it puts out. A piece of greenhide is
good enough for 10 or 15 minutes, after which
it gets hard and useless.
When a fire breaks out get to it as quickly
as possible. The longer you delay the larger
it grows. If the fire is on your property, or-
is likely to reach you soon, see that no
sheep are in the way. A few posts and some
wire make a good yard, and one or two in
suitable places are very convenient to put the
sheep into ; if the grass is burned round the
yards while still green the sheep will be
quite safe, and no man is taken from the fire
to look after them. Put your horses on
some place that has already been burnt.
You may think they were quite safe behind
the fire," but the wind may change.' If the
fire is a big one and there are a number of
men at it a great deal ,of time and energy
is generally lost by lack of organisation. It
is often difficult to get a capable man to take
charge, but this should always be done at
a big fire, as it prevents the men from run-
ning around like ants when someone has
disturbed their nest.
Last, but by no means least, beat like
blazes, though with method, and pray for
rain.
TH'E TRUCKING OF LAMBS.
“Hornby”: Lambs cannot be expected to
stand a long railway journey nearly as well
as mature sheep, and detraction from appear-
ance, affecting the price, often results.
Observation of the following points will
obviate much of this :
fl) Muster and draft as late as possible.
(2) Drive some ewes to the trucking yards
to hold the lambs together, and prevent them
from continually “breaking” through fright
and bruising themselves.
(3) Exercise care in droving.
(4) Spell the lambs before trucking them.
(5) Handle carefully while trucking, keep-
ing out too-demonstrative dogs (and men).
(6) Do not, in any circumstances, allow
the lambs to be trucked thirsty.
(7) Avoid overloading. When a lamb gets
down in a truck it rarely gets up again. But
lambs in good condition don’t get down
easily if you don’t overload.
ANGORA GOATS AND MULES.
“Mundowie”: These animals are bred in
considerable numbers in the northern parts
of South Aus., but are not much heard of else-
where. The goats are hardy, and do better
in poor country than sheep. Many breeders
consider the flesh equal to mutton, while the
skins and mohair are always valuable. The
goats shear every eight months, cutting a
fleece of 41b. to 101 b. In all times of the
year they are easily travelled, getting over
roads difficult to sheep. Being a good scrub-
cleaner and destroyer of noxious weeds, for
turning into profit poor or dirty country
the Angora is particularly useful.
There is plenty of goat country in.
N.S.W. that is otherwise waste. In and
about the little towns of the north-western
parts large flocks of the common goats are
kept. Their only use is for milk and occa-
sionally meat, as there is insufficient pastur-
age all the year round for cows. If these
were replaced with Angoras, there would be
an annual return for the mohair, and Angora
“venison” is superior to ordinary goat flesh.
The mule thrives in the same hard coun-
try as the goat, and for rough work on
rough fare, either as a team or pack animal,
one mule is worth two horses. That is why
it pays to breed him in S.A. With the
exception of the camel, he is the best draught
for the bad tracks that trend north to the
central regions. Elsewhere there is a pre-
judice against him, as there is against the
goat. “Stubborn as a mule” is an old say-
ing, but the half-breed is generally stubborn
in the right way—he hangs on to his job :
and he has other excellent points. I came
upon some mule-drovers at lunch one day
near Nanango (Q.), their mob meanwhile
being scattered about a long grassy flat.
When they had packed up again they
mounted and rode away. Nobody went after
the mules to round them up, as drovers have
to do with horses, sheep and cattle. One of
the men imitated the call of the animals,
and dozens of the long-eared beasts imme-
diately answered, then trotted together and
followed him like so many foals. In that
way they had travelled hundreds of miles.
As a general-utility animal in rough and poor
country the mule is worth while. For timber-
hauling a team of mules is better than one
of horses; and on a selection in bad times
a couple are handy to save the horses. I
have seen mules and horses worked together
on a farm, and when not stable-fed the
mules lasted longer.
LEMONS THAT WILL KEEP.
“Pip”: Our ever-increasing production of
lemons (B. 9/9/’3l) will remain unprofit-
able until we can earn for our fruit a repu-
tation for good keeping. Growers will recall
the high prices paid for Italian lemons when
they were allowed into this country; the
retailers will supply the reason why they
gladly paid the price. Cannot we, by finding
some method of closing the pores of the
skin against the entry of mould, give to our
lemon such a reputation in, say, Canada?
Treatment may differ according to locality
and time of year, but I have found that the
following has given good results in the Man-
grove Mountain (N.S.W.) district: Clip the
lemon with about lin. to lMn. of stem, plac-
ing the fruit into a box or tin in such a
manner as not to cause injury to other
fruit. Two or three days in store is long
enough to toughen the skin sufficiently, after
which clip all stems back to the button, at
the same time sorting lemons into different
boxes according to degree of color. Then
leave in store until the fruit is required for
market. My experience has led me to believe
that this practice provides an additional
benefit, in that the cutting back of the
fruiting wood induces more bloom than will
result from clipping close to the button.
The procedure may strike the grower as
rather expensive. But he would be wise to
compare the additional cost with his loss
through mould wastage in store and on the
market before he passes judgment. At least
he may consider an experiment w T orth while.
BUYING A BANANA FARM.
“ Johnno”: Anyone desiring to invest
in a banana farm should make his purchase,
or at least his final inspection, at the end
of the cold weather. It is at this time that
the faults of a plantation show up most
strongly, and if the locality is subject to frosts
faults will be apparent even to the novice.
Some districts have the disadvantage of a poor
spring rainfall. If the plantation is look-
ing starved for want of moisture in the
ground it may be taken for granted that
similar conditions prevail at the correspond-
ing period pretty well every year. And don’t
be misled by the vendor telling you it is
an exceptional season ; inquire of others to
make certain.
Banana prices are usually at their best
at the end of the winter and during the
(Continued on Page 26.)


)#/
x-'ATr ? *S)
1 K <o
Svo'l.'S
r4»^»
gCUP^®f
Cold Water Sheep Dip
THEM Att.
.Opy
f'
x
' . lA n-o-leen
cold ioes
S3* s S i3KWn£ *- ta , n inev^M.
Ce ° ff f' V b;**rt''^°^\^ r sc n our.n g action other dtp*
sheep { V.e charncterist,
tAN brig ht «ooh
desirable tip a
S
ft
a
a
r\^r
>~S.
-.AV..r//
wt - r.
nd wty m t.
-The most *; . CCN keeps the increasing
' *^ e in LAN-O'LhhlN v&lue . c \eaner fl e « t never
J n\l vermin- „.,Hancing u Aip and a m
,/A ” us merits available
Literature exv^ n e g foUowing
M F,W SOV; ltd ~
""“Sffi %£*«**•
, n ltd .,
arq \Y & TBBGANOW A^ boW . ne .
77 Latrotoe Stiee ’
46 soutK
BBNNET?
ĕ
ė
W„^;/"! I ci eapeBt
00/s T si *°? Can ensure
tiled J >'«- safe „Jj
can;/ . U maJ
ca Pital outlay.
"I&
V.V,
m
A v '\
'"'»V
w y -'ty <»
'•A*
**•*>«*
This deacty fum f**
£a % appJiej 16 Bas that kills them'™ ° ng
j^iSfrSßS^
Sa~SSSa&7ir/ r *
ę
Write now for illustrated
literature and full information.
0
/
7-11 Market Street, Sydney
And at Lismore and Brisbane.


*
L
m*
Unsurpassed pliancy!
Here’s the ideal Riding 800 t.... light
and smart. . . .made of the toughest
obtainable leather. It fits with easy
resilience. . . .yielding elastically to
every movement of the foot. The
upper is lined throughout with soft
leather. It curves over the instep
arch. . . .that’s one of the reasons for
its perfect fit.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF.. 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF... 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 248
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
J £>r
COUGH*
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
trom Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men!
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
(Che Brisbane (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
Fou can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
(Che Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
Guaranteed Car Battery
built for the Needs of Today
Cm cent
BATTERIES
6 VOLTS 11 PLATES
39/-
12 VOLTS 7 PLATES
65/-
Prices include Soles Tax
Obtainable from Leading Garages
i
-sag
OBTAINAB LE FROM
Brisbane —Exide Battery Service (Q.), Ltd.
Sydney—Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle and Go., Ltd.).
Melbourne—A. P. Sutherland.
Adelaide —Unbehaun and Johnstone, Ltd.
Perth—M. J. Bateman, Ltd.
Hobart—Medhurst and Sons Pty., Ltd.
first couple of months that follow. If a
plantation is not developing its fruit as
it should be doing at this time it is hardly
blmly to prove, a profitable proposition.
T hough there might be much trash hanging
about the stems, a vigorous plantation should
be showing a fair amount of healthy green
leaf, and the maturing bunches should look
full, though the fruit be somewhat angular.
And the young bunches being put out should
swung right beneath the shelter of the
leaves, and not. remain poised at the crown
of the tree, with the tips of the fruit point-
ing heavenwards; The latter condition indi-
cates lack of vitality, either through poverty
of the soil or absence of sufficient moisture
m the ground.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) My heifer calved and milked for three
duys. Three teats then dried up and the
udder became very hard. Cause? (2) Is
it necessary to milk a heifer with a big milk
showing before calving? (3) Where can I
(let books on . dairy-farming and treatment
of stock and diseases? —ss2B.
(1) Symptoms point to a severe attack of
mammitis or inflammation of the udder. She
slioiiW first be given a drench consisting of
lib. Epsom salts and 2oz. ground ginger in
a_ quart of warm water. Attention should
then be devoted to the local treatment of
the udder, wdiich should at first be bathed
with warm water and then massaged with
the palm of the hand, gently to begin with and
then more firmly. After 10 to 15 minutes’
massage a certain amount of milk, which is
often a little less than pus, can be squeezed
out of the teat. This treatment should be
repeated frequently throughout the day, mas-
sage being facilitated by use of a liniment;
the object is to promote healthy circulation
and reduce the inflammation, and it is impor-
tant to ensure that all milk, or whatever the
secretion is, is removed as often as practic-
able. (2) Not usual, but sometimes done if
a cow is an abnormally heavy milker. (3)
Apply to the Under-Secretary, Agriculture
Department, Sydney.
In the case of a farmer owning farm and
all equipment, the proposed share-far mm
contributing only his labor (the owner also
working ), what proportion of the gross
income is it equitable to offer the share-
farmer under a three- or five-years’ agree-
ment? Would one-fourth the first year and
one-third succeeding years meet the case as
fair to both?r— s64l.
The general practice is to pay wages to
a man who supplies only his own labor,
and the system of share-farming does not
apply to him. Under a share-farming agree-
ment the farmer usually provides all imple-
ments, machinery, horses, carts and labor
necessary, as well as half fertiliser, bags and
twine, for his share of the crop. Under these
conditions the share-farmer would be entitled
to half the crop. In the circumstances you
mention your proposed arrangement would
be very liberal.
I have some cauliflowers, planted in May,
which should be ready to heart in the next
few weeks. I am told they will probably run
straight to seed. Is there any means of forc-
ing them to heart? —sBso.
will largely depend on the weather.
It the weather is hot when the flowers form,
f very close watch will need to be kept so
that they will be harvested whilst in a satis-
factory condition. In the meantime, the
plants should be kept watered. Dryness will
aggravate the tendency to run to seed.
Should orange-trees be mulched with green
grass and weeds and watered a lot in
summer? —s6o2.
Mulching is a good practice, but one not
generally followed in commercial orange-
growing. For a small number of trees and
those growing in town gardens it would be
useful. The commercial orange-grower
relies on the growth of a cover-crop to be
ploughed into the soil in order to supply
humus, and cultivation to conserve the soil
moisture. The quantity of water required
depends on the nature of the soil, the climate
the size of the trees. In a loose sandy
soil frequent waterings are necessary, especi-
ally in hot, dry localities. The condition of
the foliage should be noted. As soon as the
leaves commence to curl the tree requires
moisture.
Recipe for making whitewash? —sBo4.
Take large pieces of fresh lump lime, place
them in a very large bucket or other suitable
container, and into this pour hot water. The
lime will start to boil and break up. It is
important to keep it covered all the time
with about half an inch of water. Before
the lime commences to boil fiercely, add
lailow or fat in the proportion of about lib.
or 21b. to 71b. of lump lime. When the lime
18 thoroughly slaked it should be stirred and
sufficient water added to make it a little
heavier than milk, after which it should be
strained. It may be applied hot.
An egg laid by my Black Orpington hen
weighs o §oz. 9 is round and Ain. long.
Is this a record? —ss9B.
No. Hen eggs have been laid weighing over
6oz.
(1) Is the sulphuric acid and bran method
of tanning unsuitable for furred skins, to
be used for coats or rugs? (2) Easiest and
quickest way of tanning furred skins? (3)
Type of vessel recommended? —s63o.
(1) Yes. (2) For small skins, mix one
part arsenic with two parts soft soap, and
smear into the flesh sides of the skins. Fold
over and leave for a few days, scrape clean
with a piece of blunt wood, and finish with
pumice-stone. (3) For tanning with any
acids, use a wooden or enamelled receptacle.
. Where can I obtain the weather predic-
tions of the late Clement Wragge? I am
told he predicted lean years up to 1930 and
then three good years.—s4B4.
We cannot trace forecasts by Wragge for
years later than 1930. His forecasts cover-
ing the period 1923 to 1930 were: “1923-24,
bad drought; 1925-26, bad drought; 1926-27,
improving; 1927-30, good seasons.”
(1) Hoiv many sheep are there in Aus-
tralia? (2) Are there more now than ever
before? —5612.
(1) The estimated number at December
31, 1930, was 106,376,853. (2) The greatest
number was 106,421,068 in 1891.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“The Breaker”.: If it is absolutely neces-
sary to work a horse with a sore back, try
this treatment. After unsaddling for the
day wash the sore with lukewarm w r ater
into which a few grains of Condy’s crystals
have been dropped. Dry and paste the sore
with clean tallow in which there is no salt.
Before saddling next day, cut a thin layer
of suet and press down on the affected part,
and see that it is in position when the saddle
is put on. Continue this treatment while
the prad is being worked.
“Bill R.” : if a nut rusted on its bolt
refuses to turn when a spanner is applied,
hold against it for a minute or two a red-
hot piece of iron. Expanded by the heat the
nut will then yield readily. For bearings
that have seized through heat and want of
oil, use kerosene. "Work it into the joints
and try to move them. They will presently
begin to shift, and with continued exertions
will soon come free.
“Minthall”: Soil acidity can be beaten by
incessant cultivation and suitable crops,
though it takes time. Fo'r a start, fallow
land all you can to allow sunlight and air to
aerate it. Drain it by shallow drains that
can be. worked over later if not needed.
Plough it in every possible direction to break
the hard pan, and use plenty of agricultural
lime. If it will grow oats plant oats, and
then plough the stubble in. Best of all is a
leguminous crop such as peas, beans, rape or
lupins. These ploughed in will manure and
add humus to the soil. Plant “light” crops
and don’t pasture stock on them.
“Yarn”: Where round posts and round
sliprails are used, old horseshoes driven into
the posts answer the purpose of mortise
holes. All that is necessary is to heat them
and hammer out the ends to a point; then
boro holes to drive them into. They also
make good hooks for the harness-room. In
this case twist the shoe when hot, so that
one end can be nailed flat to the wall and
the other end will stand out.
“J.P.” : Poultry need ample shade from the
hot sun. Make shelters of boughs if nothing
better is available. Protect the drinking
water from the sun, and change it frequently,
washing out the container well. Make suc-
cessive plantings of silver beet, lucerne,
lettuce and other succulent green stuff so as
to have a continuous supply. Gather the
eggs frequently and send them to market
often, and don’t on any account have male
birds with the layers during the summer.
G. A. Loudon is growing coffee in the high-
lands behind Port Moresby. Trial shipments to
Sydney have been sold profitably, and Mores-
by housewives are using the local product.
Coffee showed fine promise in the old B.N.G.
days. Its cultivation was abandoned, not,
as has been stated, on account of introduced
diseases and pests (Papua has enough home-
grown varieties of its own), but through
ignorance of the finer points of the game,
bad seasons, worse roads and a hostile Aus-
tralian tariff.
Recently exhibited in Sydney, a wheat-
sack with a paper lining, claimed to be
water- and weevil-proof. The inventors
say it can be marketed at a much lower
price than new sacks, as the lining makes
the use . of second-hand o'nes possible.
The Agriculture Department is conducting
tests to find out if the article stands up to
rough handling; but since cement is now
handled in all-paper bags there should be
no trouble in that connection.
An Imperial sugar-research conference
which recently sat in London recommended
the establishment of four sugar-cane breed-
ing centres within the Empire—one in Aus-
tralia, the others in Barbadoes, Mauritius
and Southern India. One of the chief pro-
blems is how to hasten the ripening of the
cane. . In most sugar-growing countries the
cane is in the ground for 10 months and
upwards, and trials are being made with
cereal crosses in the attempt to get some-
thing quicker. The Dutch have evolved a
sugar-sorghum cross which ripens in five
months.
Canada is getting a shipment of Austra-
lian . passion-fruit; it left in the Canadian
.Cruiser. A shipment to New York some
time ago fell flat, the Yanks declining to
swallow the seeds, though hotels and
restaurants went to the length of printing on
their menus assurances that these could be
eaten with impunity.
“lan J”: “G.H.N.’s” friend (B. 2/9/’3l)
fed four Large White crosses at the same
cost as five Tammy-Berks. His experience
has been very different from mine. I find I
can market Large Whites at bacon weight
from one to two months earlier than when
I bred Tammy-Berks. Pigs are like all other
stock; an extra good one of an inferior
breed may be better than a poor specimen of
the better breed. No one will uphold the
Hereford as a dairy breed against the Jersey,
yet there are some Hereford cows better than
some Jerseys.
“Valerin” : My friend “Liss” (B. 16/9/’3l)
puts greater faith in ram-breeders than I do.
At the Sydney ram sales in July regis-
tered merino-owners offered rams that should
have had their throats cut; they were sold
because they were “cheap,” but the men who
bought them will find they have made a
very dear purchase. The “mongrel” sheep is
not half the menace that the near-class
merino is; only a fool would buy the former,
but the other kind deceives the ordinary
flock-owner who isn’t an expert. There is
no reason why any sheepowner cannot have
his flock expertly classed and suitable rams
selected; Government experts connected with
the Agricultural Department give, services
free, and their work is generally satisfactory.
“Outback”: One thing that might be done
to popularise the N. S. Wales railways for
goods traffic is to give local stationmasters
discretionary powers as to demurrage. A
truck comes in and a consignee living
away from the line does not know
immediately. Yet he has to unload within
24 hours or pay demurrage. And un-
loading has to be done in the goods-shed
or -yard; very often the shed is not big
enough to hold all the stuff. Then at times
weather and roads militate against quick
loading or unloading. It is such items that
add to high freight rates and make the man
on the land seek other transport means.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved,
wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Technical schoolboj’ (16), Vic., seeks position in
wireless or talkies equipment service. Knowledge
of S.W. receivers and transmitters. —5891.
Partner wanted for cabbage- and potato-growing
in N. S. Wales.—s9o9.
Experienced stockman wants position in N.T. or
Gulf country.—sB49.
\oung man (21), N.S.W., five years’ workshop
exp. with Sydney motor firms, wants employment
city or country.—s79B.
Teacher (26), N.S.W., seeks articled clerkship
with solicitor. Will pay premium.—5915.
To buy “Goblin Gold,” arranged for school choir.
—5BBB.
To buy “The Search for the Bonzer Tart and Other
Stories,” by “Hamer.”—sBBo.
To buy “Ulysses,” by James Joyce.—sB94.
Information Sought.
(1) Who originated the “Paterson
scheme”? (2) When? (3) How does it
operate? (4) Is it universal through the
Commonwealth sB4o.
(1) Thomas Paterson, Federal member for
Gippsland. (2) January 1, 1926. (3)
Butter-producers pay a levy of lfd. per
pound, out of which a bonus of per
pound on all butter exported is paid. (4)
Yes.
(1) What is the “International Date
Line”? (2) Why doesn't it stick to the
ISO th meridian?. —s624.
(1) From 60 to S. it follows the
180th meridian; from 514 to 454 deg. S. it
cuts diagonally across to the ' 172|- W,
meridian, which it follows to deg. S. From
154 deg. to sdeg. S. it veers back to the 180th
meridian, which it follows to 4&deg. N. From
48deg. to N. it veers to the 170th
meridian E., and from 524 deg. to 65deg. N.
it veers to 169 deg. W., then through the
centre of Behring Strait to point lat. 70deg.
N., long. 180 deg. (2) The variations are
made so as to include all the islands in a
group that straddles the meridian, or for
political reasons.
Treatment for a dog with mange? —s2s3.
-If it is a case of true follicular mange
treatment should be carried out by a vet.
rhe dog should be isolated and premises
thoroughly cleansed and disinfected. Elimi-
nate bread and biscuits from the food, which
should consist of meat, milk, broths and
vegetables.
5"’92 Jl an( l to strike cypress cuttings?
This should be done in March. Place cut-
tings of half-ripened wood about 6in. long
m boxes of sandy loam, and water regularly.
Cuttings_ which strike, can be placed in open
ground in the spring. If the boxes are
placed in a hot-house the cuttings will root
quickly, but it will be necessary to harden
the plants before transplanting.
/ have been told that some pictures are
painted almost entirely with a knife instead
of a brush. What is the advantage of the
knife over the brush? —5795.
. H I s . an advantage to painters who work
m a vigorous style to apply thick layers of
paint to the canvas, and the knife is employed
n « ar l y landscape painters for some kind
of effects. Highlights applied in this way may
be made more striking than those in thin
paint, the thicker paint, slightly in relief,
catching a high light of its own and empha-
ses the luminosity of the work. The
method is also employed in the painting of
architectural subjects.
(I) How to get rid of clover grass from
the lawn? (2) When to top-dress the lawn
and the best soil to use? —sBol.
(I) Sprinkle sulphate of ammonia crystals
on the clover in the morning, and water the
lawn m the afternoon. A couple of appli-
cations should be sufficient. (2) Apply
light top-dressings in October, January and
March; rich loam is most suitable for couch,
and sandy loam for buffalo grass. A little
blood-and-bone fertiliser mixed with the
top-dressing soil is helpful.
(1) Can a married woman legally retain
her maiden name, using the title “Mrs.”?
(2) Is it correct for a widow to use
her own initials while retaining the hus-
band’s surname? (3) Does a divorced
woman take her married name or maiden
name, and should she call herself Mrs or
Miss? —s7l9.
(1) During marriage her legally-recog-
nised surname is that of her husband, but it is
not an offence to use her maiden name for
business purposes. (2) There can be no
objection to it. (3) Strictly .speaking, she
is not entitled to use the surname conferred
on her by marriage when that marriage has
been dissolved. She should revert to her
maiden name, but custom, especially where -
there are children of the one-time marriage,
recognises the use of the former surname.
(1) What arc the qualifications of an
actuary ? (2) Any prospects for the pro-
fession in Australia? (3) Books? (4)
Address of Actuarial Society?—- 5642.
(1) He should have the degree of Fellow
or Associate of either the Institute of Actu-
aries of Great Britain and Ireland or the
Faculty of Actuaries in Scotland. (2) Not
much scope unless the actuary is also a
public accountant, or has practical experi-
eiice of life insurance. (3) Consult Year-
Book of the Institute of Actuaries, obtain-
atde from the assistant-seeretary, Staple Inn
Hall, Holborn. London. (4) C/o AMP
Society, 87 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(1) Where can I get training as a
plumber, up to the standard required by the
Sydney Water Board for a license? ' (2)
Is it possible for me to get a license in a
coimtry town controlled by the Sydney
Water Board after serving five years'
apprenticeship and talcing a correspondence
course? —ss4l.
(1) Correspondence courses are provided
by Sydney Tech, in sewer plumbing, water
plumbing and house drainage, and the certi-
ficates issued on successful completion of
the courses are accepted as meeting the
requirements of ’ : Local Government '“Ordi-
nances. _ (2) The drainage and water plumb-
ing certificates are accepted throughout the
State, r but the sewer-plumbing certificate is
not accepted in the Sydney and Newcastle
metropolitan areas. Water plumbers are
allowed to operate only in districts- in metro-
politan areas where no sewers are in exist-
ence.
I intend to start a newspaper, stationery
and bookselling business in Vic. (1) What
is the profit on retail sales? (2) Name of
someone who could advise? (3) Any books
on Australian trade and customs? —5515.
(1) About 25 p.c. on newspapers and 33 $
p.c. on stationery. (2) Authorised News-
agents’ Association, 37 Swanston-street, Mel-
bourne ; or Booksellers’ Association: Sec., R.
Linehan, S Bourke-street, Melbourne. (3)
None dealing with this business.
I wish to become a motor mechanic. How
can 1 get a course of instruction in Sydney?
—5686.
Sydney Tech, has a course, but it is
available only to persons working at the
trade. There is, however, a course in motor
maintenance, to which you could be admitted.
(1) I wish to become postmaster in an
allowance post office. Will / have to put
in a tender? (2) What examination will
I have to pass? (3) Where can / get coach-
ing in post-office routine? —5366.
(1) Apply Senior Inspector, G.P.0., Syd-
ney, or, in the case of country centres, to
the inspector for the district. (2) No exami-
nations are prescribed. (3) No provision is
made for giving tuition to persons outside
the service except upon appointment.
(1) Is there any method of treating waste-
paper, including newsprint, to convert it
into usable material? (2) Are there such
plants in Australia? —s6B9.
(1) Before printed paper, such as old
newspapers, can be used for the manufac-
ture of white paper it must be de-inked.
There are several well-established de-inking
processes. In Australia old newspapers are
used without de-inking to add to the “fur-
nish” for the manufacture of wrapping
papers, boards, etc. One of the main diffi-
culties in the way of more general use is
the cost of collection. (2) Australian Paper
Manufacturers, Ltd., have mills at Botany
Bay, Sydney.
I wish to interest Californian stock and
station agents- in Australian pastoral and
grazing properties. (1) What firms should
I approach? (2) Ho American stock and
station agents operate in the same way as
Australian cos.? —5757.
(1) There is no American equivalent of
the big stock and station companies of Aus-
tralia. The meat-packing companies, grain
dealers, dairy cos. and fruit-packing and can-
ning cos. buy farm produce but don’t do
much in the way of financing producers.
American farmers requiring financial assist-
ance go to a bank. (2) Probably the nearest
thing to the stock and station agents of Aus-
tralia are the agricultural-implement manu-
facturers, who sell implements on long terms,
ihe leader is the International Harvester
Go., which has a branch in Australia.
(1) I have heard it said that threepence,
lent 2000 years ago and earning compound
interest at 5 p.c. p.a., would by now amount
to a sum greater than all the wealth in the
world. What would be the exact amount?
(2) What is to prevent my investing, say,
£lOO in trust for my descendants 1000 years
hence, at compound interest? What would
they inherit? —5845.
(1) £12,400.. . . followed by 429 naughts
(2). There is legislation in most countries
against placing money at compound interest
for longer than a lifetime. Anyway, no
bank would accept the money for' an' inde-
finite period. If the bequest were practicable,
the descendants would cut up £7,815
followed by 213 naughts. Printed in 'this
type the full figure for the 2000 years’ trans-
action would measure 26in., and for the
1000 years’ transaction 13-lin.
Where can I obtain M.L. ice-plants to
grow in Tasmania? Would they be suitable
to plant on a somewhat clayey bank in a
small garden? —s762.
Ice-plants are not indigenous to M.L. Sold
by most Australian seedsmen as pot-plants
they grow in almost any sort of soil or
climate, and spread rapidly. They thrive
on clay, banks.
How can I prepare colors to mint wood
blocks which will give an effect like Japanese
prints? —sB6s.
Make a thick paste with rice flour, divide
small quantities in separate containers, and
mix with each a quantity of dry color which
lias been very finely ground with a pestle
and mortar. For black, take a little stick ink
and dissolve in a small quantity of distilled
water. Pour off the water without shaking
the ink up and mix a little of the residue
with the.prepared paste. Water-colors may
he used in place of dry color, but they are
not so vivid in tone. Dyed paste is some-
times used, but this is of doubtful uerma-
nency.
(1) I have had a few lessons in drawing
and ivould like to continue my studies at
home. Where could I buy some antiaue
Tel?- 5857 } WhUt W ° UU VOU adviSC ™ to
Try the sculpture school n t thc East
Sydney Tech. Col. A dealer in artists’
materials might bp able to get you some but
they would be rather expensive. (2) The
anatomical figure (Lanteri), the separate fea-
tures of the “David,” the head of Nicola
and one of the classic hands would be plenty
to start with.
(1 ) How and when was the Q’land Leg.
Council abolished? (2) Was there a referen-
dum? (8) Result of referendum? (4) Did
Kidston have anything to do with it? (5)
Did Kidston or Kidston’s party abolish the
Leg. Council after a referendum had resulted
in a vote in favor of retaining it? —5663.
(1) By the Constitution Act Amendment
Act of 1921, proclaimed on March 23, 1922.
(2) Yes; in 1917. (3) Against abolition,
179,105; for abolition, 116,196; majority
against abolition, 62,909. (4) and (5) No.
Qualifications and remuneration of radio
a renounce rs ? —5769.
The qualifications prescribed by the Post-
master-General’s Department are : “The com-
pany shall employ announcers of good educa-
tion, style and personality, possessed of clear
enunciation, and as far as possible free from
any characteristic dialect.” The average
salary is about £5OO p.a. All stations have
a long waiting list of applicants.
(1) Is there more than one variety of
anopheles mosquito? (2) Is the anopheles
found in Australia? If so\, which varieties,
and where? (3) Is the anopheles still be-
lieved to be the only variety capable of carry-
ing malaria? (4) Does the anopheles tvhere
found in Australia carry malaria? —5856.
(1) Approximately 150. (2) Anopheles
annulipes is found throughout Australia, in-
cluding the north coast of N.S.W. and Tas.
A. amietus is distributed over Q’land, North
Australia and probably n.-w. Australia. A.
punctulatus has been found at Borroloola
on the McArthur River, North Australia. A.
punctulatus var. moluecensis is found, from
Darwin to Katherine in North Australia. A.
bancrofti occurs in North Australia, com-
monly in the Roper River valley, and the
coastal belt of Queensland, and probably
extending down the north coast of N.S.W.
for some distance. A. stigmaticus and A.
atratipes are both found in the neighborhood
of Brisbane and Sydney and very probably
occur along the coast line between these two
cities. (3) Yes. (4) Only in some parts of
Australia, chiefly in North Australia. In
other parts they do not, because they them-
selves are not infected with the malaria
parasite.
What solution or cement will stick rubber
to metal?— sSo9.
Take powdered shellac, 1 part, strong
water of ammonia, TO parts. Put the shellac
in the ammonia water, and set it away in
a tightly-closed jar for three or four weeks.
The liquid will then be a perfectly trans-
parent mass, and is ready for use. When
applied to rubber, the ammonia in the mix-
ture softens it but quickly evaporates,
leaving the rubber the same as before. The
shellac clings to the metal, and forms a firm
bond. Allow to dry thoroughly.
(1) How is casein-glue made? (2) How
used? —5797.
(1) For general purposes, dissolve 5 parts
borax in 95 parts water, and mix in enough
casein to make a paste.' For metals, make
a paste with 16oz. casein, 20oz. slaked lime
and 20oz. sand, in water. For glass, make
a paste of casein and waterglass. (2) It is
used where strong joins are required, the
general-purpose cement being mostly used
,in making cardboard-boxes.
(1) If I sue the maker of a dishonored
prom, note and he fails to. pay the costs of
court, will I have to pay? (2) If I gain a
verdict, how can I enforce payment? (3)
How can I find out if his household furniture,
etc., is encumbered? (4) What would a
solicitor charge to undertake the whole busi-
ness? The amount of the p.n. is £20?—5807.
(1) No. (2) You may apply to the
registrar of the court to make an order
directed to a bailiff to take sufficient of
defendant’s goods to satisfy the judgment
and costs of court. (3) By a search in the
Registrar-General’s Office, Queen’s-square,
Sydney. An unregistered bill of sale is
good between the parties: to it, but to be
effectual against other creditors the bill must
be registered. (4) No fixed fee. Depends
on circumstances.
What teas “John Company ” in India, and
what part did it play in founding the Indian
Empire? —s7l3.
“John Company” was the English East India
Co., incorporated in 1600 to compete with the
Dutch for the Indian and Far Eastern trade.
Ousted from the East Indies in 1622, the
co. concentrated on India, where in 1660 it
was invested with civil and criminal juris-
diction and liberty t 0 fight against non-
Christian nations. Bombay was transferred to
“John. Company,” which in 1677 struck money
for circulation in the East Indies. The
Breda Treaty (1667) removed Dutch rivalry
in India, and French ambitions were
squashed by Clive at Plassey (1757). The
co. became the ruling power in India, but
Parliament in 1773 centralised admin-
istration of all its provinces under a
Governor-General (Hastings) and brought
its civil and military affairs under Cabinet
review. The co.’s powers were whittled
away each time its charter was renewed,
until by 1833 it was merely an administra-
tive agency. It ceased to exist in 1858 in
consequence of the Mutiny, the government
of India passing t 0 the British Crown.
(1) What examinations must a person
wishing to graduate as a B.A. undergo in
N.KW ? (2) Subjects? (3) Cost of course?
—o (♦M.
(1) He must first pass the matriculation
or leaving-certificate exam, at one sitting in
four subjects, three of which must be passed
at the leaving standard. Higher English and
higher Latin are compulsory. The candidate
must pass in modern history, and also in
mathematics, which may be at the higher or
lower standard. All candidates for degrees
must attend lectures at Sydney Uni. (2)
English, Latin, Greek, French, German
Japanese, history, philosophy, mathematics’
geography anthropology, etc. (3) Matricu-
lation fee £3, tuition fees £75, degree fee £3.
I reside in S.A. My income is derived
from a company and a trust estate, both in
I ic. Can the S. Aus. Government legally
tax me 6d. in the £ on dividends? —sss3.
The S.A. Taxation Act authorises the im-
position of a tax of 6d. in the £ on the in-
come received by any person ordinarily resi-
dent in S.A. from dividends from anv co
whether registered in S.A. or not," and
whether such income arises or accrues in
or is derived from, S.A. or not.
Brief Answers.
N.C.S.: A chalk-surfaced board, 30in. x
22in., Is. 3d. per board, is suitable. The board used
by the artist mentioned is known as clay-surfaced
board, and is specially imported, costing about 10s.
od. per board. Write W. C. Penfold and Co..
Sydney H.L.P.: See “Argus,” September 5, 1931.
H.J.M.S.: (1) £2 10s. (2) 12s. 6d. (3) About
£lO. (4) 12s. 6d. (5) Description insufficient to
determine. (6) 10s. (7) £1 2s. 6d L.W.: (1)
It is doubtful whether a correspondence course would
help much. Jobs are open only to experienced men
and there are plenty of them about. (2) Let’s have
a look at it... .A.R.W.: Can’t say. Suggest you
write to J. C. Sleeman, Publicity Branch, Premier’s
Dept., Sydney J.R.: From Arthur Yates and Co.,
184 Sussex-street, Sydney D.F.N.E.: Get in touch
with Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, York-street, Sydney.
P.M.: Carbine was by Musket —Mersey. He won
the Melbourne Cup in 1890 with lOst. 51b.—the
heaviest weight ever carried by a Melbourne Cup
winner—against the record number of 39 starters,
and in the fastest time then recorded, 3miri. 281 sec.
During his racing career Carbine started in 43 races
for 33 wins, 0 seconds, 3 thirds; he won stakes
amounting to £29,626 W.M.D.: Pimm insignia
(radiata) is used in S.A. for the purposes mentioned,
but cannot be seen in buildings in N.S.W., as N.S.W.
forests are not sufficiently developed R.G : Railway
Department; Wallis Bros., Abattoir-road, Pyrmont’:
Empire Timbers, Ltd., Elliott-street, Balmain;
George Hudson, Bridge-road, Glebe ; and A. C. Saxton
and Sons, Bridge-road, Pyrmont—all Sydney L. 8.:
Write to Lands Dept., Sydney, giving particulars of
the area and tenure of land F.J.A.: Reference
books list over 4o artists of that name. None of
them is a front-ranker. Can’t trace Q M. 8.:
It is for the holder of the bond to say whether he
will voluntarily convert or not. You’ are entitled
to the new issue, bearing interest at 4 per cent.
You have no claim for compensation, on the facts
stated... .L.J.A.: A person seeking divorce in N. S.
Wales must have lived in the State for three years.
... .W.McG.: (1) There is no time limit, but the
executor is required when applying for probate to
furnish an official account at fixed periods. (2)
You should write to the executor asking for an
explanation of the delay, and if a satisfactory reply
is not received communicate with the Probate
Department. (3) You would have to bring your
suit in a superior court sitting, probably, in Perth.
. ...W.M.: Standard recipes advise boiling up the
fat, resin and any other materials liked with the
main quantity of water; when, boiling, add slowly
caustic soda and water solution; stir well and boil
all slowly for half an hour. Temperature would
be 212 deg. Fah E.C.E.; The wood is softened
by steaming, and you could probably shape it by
boiling it in the laundry copper. It must then be
bent round a wooden block of the desired shape,
and tied in position until it dries L. J.C.: (1) As
written. (2) Russia. (3) Get in touch with David
Moore, editor, “The Dog World,” Wentworth Build-
ing, Dalley-street, Sydney R.W.P.: (1) Yes. In
the exceptional circumstanoes. (2) Bank did not
Suspend payment till the closing of its doors on
August 24, and transacted business, as it was entitled
to do, during that day, including receipt of cheques.
The suspension did not affect its legal rights with
regard to your cheque. (3) and (4) Cannot see how:
you could recover Witt.:: (1) Robinson’s week-
end motor map (2s. 6d.). (2) Information can be
obtained on application to the Bush Walkers’ Club,
258 George-street, Sydney L.L.R.; Write to Taylor
and Elliott, Brisbane. .. .N.D.: The manufacturers
decline to furnish details E.N.J.: Vacancies occur
very rarely these days. Watch the advertising columns
of the daily press A.J.H.: If the estate is in
Chancery write to the Assistant Paymaster-General.
Whitehall, S.W.I, London. If not, write to the
Town Clerk, Municipal Offices, Liverpool, England,
giving full particulars H.G.8.: The provisions of
the Act extend to any agreement for the sale of
land made prior to December 19, 1930, and the
vendors may claim relief under it.... W.F.G.: You
cannot take action during the tenure of the lease!
Write to the tenant and let him know you hold
him responsible P.K.: If you bought the property
in joint ownership, it is not divisible, but if it is
a tenancy in common, your own and wife’s share
can be determined, and she has power to sell her
share. Ownership of the cattle depends on whether
they are held jointly or severally. Better consult a
solicitor. .. .L.G.: The decision of the Court is “final
and conclusive and without appeal.” The Court
may, however, reconsider any matter which has been
dealt with by it or rescind, alter or amend any
decision or order made by it.... C.McD.: The
Marble Arch (London) was first erected in 1830,
at Buckingham Palace, and later shifted to the
north-east angle of Hyde Park K.L.: Ethel
Mannin, the novelist, was born in London in
1900. She commenced her journalistic career at
18 as associate editor of the “Pelican,” now
defunct.... A.L.F.: President of Czechoslovakia is
Thomas Garrigue Masaryk. He is 81... .W.J.R.:
The six greatest waterfalls, so far as height
goes, are Sutherland (M.L.), 1904 ft.; Ribbon
(Yosemite Park, California), 1612 ft.; Roraima
(Brit. Guiana), 1500 ft. ; Upper Yosemite (Cali :
fornia), 1430 ft.; Kalambo (South Africa), 1400 ft. ;
Garvarnie (France), 1385 ft E.D.: Hughes and Son,
Wrexham, North Wales, specialise in the publication
of Welsh music K. 1.: Christmas Island is situated
roughly in 2deg. North lat., 157 deg. West long. ■lt
was discovered by Captain Cook in 1777 and annexed
by Great Britain in 1888. It is the largest atoll
in the Pacific, being over 100 miles in circumference.
Central Pacific Cocoanut Plantations, Ltd., has an 87
years’ lease of it,'dating from January, 1914. Popu-
lation (1927) —Europeans, 5; natives, 18....W.5.:
The natural strength of Australian wines is from
26 to 28 per cent, of proof spirit. The strength of
wines offered for sale is 35 per cent, of proof spirit
in the case of fortified wines, e.g., port, claret,
sherry; and from 20 to 24 per cent, in the case of
dry wines, such as hock and chablis... .A.J.8.: (1)
A crossed cheque, made payable “to order” and duly
endorsed, is accepted in many instances by mercantile
firms and other’s as of equal value to a receipt. (2)
You can demand a formal receipt. The onus of
stamping it rests on the giver... .C.T.: Where there
are no will and no children, if the net value of the
property does not exceed £5OO the widow is en-
titled to the whole of it. 3f it does exceed that sum
she gets £5OO and half the residue, the balance
being divisible among the next of kin. . . .L. 5.8.:
An agreement under hand (not under seal) requires
a Is. stamp, which must be cancelled by the person
by whom the agreement is executed. Penalty, up
to £5. A guarantee is an agreement. .. .S.H.L.:
Oallemondah, “plenty of hills”; Immarna, “camp”;
Tallawang, “place of the apple-gum”... .M.E.;
Sydney Uni. academic year is divided into three
terms, Lent, Trinity and Michaelmas, of approxi-
mately 10 weeks each. Lectures begin in March
and cease in November. There are two vacations,
one of a fortnight in June, and one of three weeks
in August and September... .8.N.; The practice of
forestalling, that is, buying produce in a market
and selling it there wholesale at an enhanced price,
is prohibited in N.S.W. under the Farm Produce
Agents Act 1926... .C.Y.: Electricity Department,
Town Hall, Sydney, will supply you with a copy of
the S.A.A. Wiring Rules. Price, 15... ..(Many
others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G. M. Turnbull
Synopsis : Jim Huntley, Resident
Magistrate at Aikoroa, Papua, return-
ing to his post after sick leave,
has for a felloio-passenger Marian
Durrant, whom he had known as a
small child. She had keen brought up
“down south," and is now paying a
surprise visit to her father. Huntley,
who has fallen in love ivith the girl,
is alarmed at the prospect. Always
Charlie Durrant had put his daughter
off coming to Aikoroa, where he, too,
lived and had his plantation (Nata-
roa). On board also is a young man
named Freddie, on his way to a job
in Papua.
CHAPTER 111 ( Continued ).
HUNTLEY stared back at Marian with
an approval he.was at no pains to
conceal; Nevertheless, he felt very
sure of himself on this morning of cool
air and orange-gold sunlight. He won-
dered a little at the flame of—was it
passion?—born half of the nearness of
her, half unquestionably of the glamor-
ous tropic night, that had unbalanced
him when she had so lightly and casu-
ally brushed his cheek with her lips. He
had been afraid of himself, and, afterwards,
more than a little disgusted with himself.
She was just a kid, a bright, adorable little
kid, and he was—was —a sickening, swollen-
headed ass. Between thirty-six and nine-
teen was an impregnable wall, an unscalable
barrier; the years that lay between were
really centuries. He should be glad of his
cosy intimacy with a girl like Marian;
proud of the qualities of elder brother—or
was it uncle?—with which her airy, careless
kiss had invested him. And if he was to be
envious of her pleasure in the society of a
personable young man like Freddie, let it be
a generous, not a carking, secret envy.
“I like the way you crinkle up your eyes,
Jim,” Marian remarked demurely, “and
immerse yourself in your own thoughts.
And I simply adore your habit of ignoring
me so completely.” She broke into a little
trill of laughter as he began to redden. “Or
is it that I throw a slow hypnosis over you
and you become dumb?”
Huntley’s face was suffused. He wished
she wouldn’t laugh at him, make him feel
such a monumental fool.
He coughed. “It’s a wonderful morning.”
“Wonderful.”
“The air is so cool and bracing.”
“Like the fragrance of strong wine. Go
on, Jim. You’re doing splendidly.”
He looked at her with slowly dawning sus-
picion. A thick voice interposed.
“Wine! Oo said wine, hey? Wasser
marrer with a few gin-slings? George! Hey,
George! Bring’s ’nother.”
Marian’s hand tightened on Huntley’s
shoulder. She was bubbling with mirth.
“Dear old Jim,” she gasped between gusts,
“you and your vinous friend are perfectly
lovely!” She leapt lightly to the deck. “I
must finish packing,” she exclaimed. “Bara-
mata at noon, dear old boy.” She put an
arm through Huntley’s. “Take a few turns
round the deck with me, Jim. The expres-
sion on Freddie’s face is making me hys-
terical.”
“The river system of the Purari Delta,
ladies,” the missionary was intoning the
words with impressive solemnity, “disem-
bogues into the Gulf of Papua over a
littoral of approximately one hun-dred
miles. The mean annual rainfall has been
estimated to”
Marian choked. “Let’s run for it, Jim.
Freddie is looking positively murderous.”
Baramata at noon!
The sun had risen high, beating white hot
upon the decks where the awnings ended.
Baramata at noon! Aikoroa, two days
later! Her words brought him back to
actualities with a shock. He heard him-
self answering her brisk sallies with gruff
monosyllables. Impatiently she shook his
arm and with feeble ardor he responded.
He had forgotten, almost, Baramata—
Aikoroa. A feeling of catastrophe obsessed
him; a sense of helplessness invaded him.
Conversation was an increasing effort, the
reverend lecturer’s resonant baritone an
intolerable exasperation. He quickened his
pace. Maid Marian of the rippling hair, the
fearless, laughing eyes and the provocative
impish mouth—he tried to formulate
thoughts, plans, but his brain was a seeth-
ing whirlpool. Desperately he kept up with
Marian’s small talk, but he sweated with the
effort. He glanced quickly at her animated
profile and as quickly averted his head.
Youth.she had; health and strength; pride
and poise and courage. Huntley winced.
His stride lengthened again and Marian’s
hand tightened upon his arm. _ She _ was
gazing out to sea, chattering with light-
hearted gaiety.
“You’re not listening to me, Jim,” she
chided laughingly. “You’re not taking the
tiniest notice of anything I say.”
She didn’t look at him. She didn’t see the
expression in his eyes, his dragging mouth,
the dread that was written in his face—
dread and -something else.
Far ahead, where blinding blue sea melted
into blinding blue sky, Baramata lay like
an emerald-green jewel magically suspended
in space. Marian Durrant was conscious of
an odd thrill as, high on the boat-deck, she
watched the island grow in size and clear-
ness as the steamer ate up the intervening
miles.
There had been moments when she had
lost the delightful sense of adventure
with which she had set out on her
travels; moments when the wonder of
it all had worn a little thin. At
Port Moresby she had almost been
afraid; almost she had surrendered to a
panicky impulse to transfer herself and her
luggage to the Sydney-bound steamer that
lay alongside the jetty. Her childish
memories had not prepared her for the
endless dreariness of stark, sun-scorched
hills, the bleak monotony of heat-reflecting
boulders and forlorn, stunted eucalyptus
that is Port Moresby in the dry season. She
had watched the trade-wind sweeping the
coarse wallaby grass into running waves that
had a glint of silver; she had shielded her
eyes from the heat phantoms that danced
on the corrugated-iron roofs and quivered
like blue flames over the metalled streets.
Grilling heat and glaring sun; stunted
vegetation fighting for life in harsh, infer-
tile soil; tin-roofed bungalows clinging to
the hillsides; pitiful dried-up remains of
wet season-gardens—she had forgotten, if
she had ever known, that Port Moresby is
in the dry belt. This abomination of deso-
lation, this unlooked-for contrast with all
she had been expecting had been like a
blow in the face.
And then she had seen a man walking
slowly along the jetty—a tall, rangy man
leaning a little on a stick, a steady-eyed
man with a pleasantly ugly face and a
pleasantly arrogant set to his shoulders.
Something had awakened in her; some
chord of memory had vibrated ever so
slightly and had then been stilled.
Baramata drew nearer. Marian cupped
her chin in her hands watching the shifting
play of light and shadow on the surface
of the waters while she indulged in a mental
recapitulation of the events that had led up
to her renewing acquaintance with Jim
Huntley.
It had been good to meet a man who
fifteen years ago had romped with her
and told her fairy stories; who had known
her dead mother, who was still her father’s
friend, and who bad told her in a voice'
that rang with sincerity that he wanted to
be hers. Little doubts had harassed her;
they were gone now. Scarce-admitted fears
had oppressed her; she was no longer con-
scious of them. There were unknown ele-
ments in this new life upon which she was
entering; but she was aware only of a bliss-
ful sense of comfort, of security. With Jim
Huntley to counsel her she could, she felt,
face with equanimity everything the
immediate future held in store.
It had been easy to toss her head at Aunt
Agatha’s frantic protests when she had
announced her intention of joining her
father; to wear down that censorious old
lady’s opposition, and wring from her a re-
luctant consent. It had been fun to engage
in an orgy of shopping and packing and
farewell parties; to dance and laugh and
flirt her way from Sydney to Baramata.
But she was thinking of her father now, of
the bitter loneliness of his widowerhood, the
soul-wearying isolation of his life on the
little one-man plantation at Nataroa in
Aikoroa Bay. She had written to him many
times, pleading with him, arguing with him
about the foolishness of taking so little
rest and recreation. Sometimes this replies
had been evasive, sometimes whimsically
humorous, sometimes a little disjointed,
incoherent almost, as though he realised her
need of him; and always they had ended
on a note of deep affection. In fifteen years
he had taken but one short holiday, and
that more than a decade ago.
Marian sighed and her piquant face be-
came suddenly grave. He was a phantom,
this father of hers—a dear, generous, whimsi-
cal phantom whose very lineaments eluded
her when she tried to conjure up a mental
picture of him. Her last lingering doubt
left her. A fierce, insistent longing for him
took possession of her. New Guinea had
robbed her of her mother; it should not
have her father, too.
A forest of masts was showing up in the
roadstead off Baramata; a hazy outline of
other islands, mysteriously glamorous under
their veil of heat was discernible in the
blue distance. There was a stir of life on
the forecastle-head, a hiss of escaping steam
from the donkey-engine, and, on the forward
well-deck, a bare-legged seaman was knock-
ing out the wedges that secured the hatch
tarpaulins.
Marian turned from the rail and, thread-
ing her way through a group of passengers
gathered about the companion-way, de-
scended to the promenade-deck. She
started as she saw Freddie. He was sprawled
in a deck-chair. In his hand was a flimsy
envelope and he seemed to be absorbed in
gloomy contemplation of the creases in his
immaculate flannels. There was an expres-
sion on his gaod-looking face that was akin
to dismay, an expression that turned into a
weak grin as he felt Marian’s casual hand
upon his shoulder.
“Why so down in the mouth, little boy?”
she inquired.
“My name,” he answered, “is Mud. You
disdain me, the missionary laddie abomi-
nates me, and Mr. Huntley looks at me
as though I were something dragged in by
the cat. I think,” he went on aggrievedly,
“you might have put me wise.”
“What on earth are you talking about?”
Marian demanded.
“I might have known,” Freddie continued
in a voice of melancholy reminiscence, “that
when you succeeded in vamping him
yesterday”
“Do you mind,” Marian cut in frigidly,
“if we don’t discuss Mr. Huntley? He is
a very old and very dear friend of mine.
I’m surprised, Freddie. You’re being per-
fectly beastly.”
Freddie murmured something incoherent.
A curious expression, half defiant, half
sheepish, overspread his face. He was
looking at Huntley, who had just appeared
round the corner of the deck-house. Hunt-
ley was studying a radio-telegram with
obvious perplexity. His face cleared as he
caught sight of Freddie. He stared hard.
“You’re Chisholm, of course,” he said.
“And you, sir,” Freddie replied, “are the
boss.”
Marian was plainly nonplussed. She
looked at Freddie and then at Huntley.
They were watching each other with anew
interest, sizing each other up.
“Why the dickens didn’t you make your-
self known, man?” Huntley demanded at
last. His voice was stern but his eyes
twinkled. “How the devil was I to know
that you are the new pup patrol-officer head-
quarters have wished on to me?”
“Well, R.M.,” Freddie started to explain.
“I knew I had been detailed to Aikoroa,
but”-
“Aikoroa!” Marian interposed. “How
perfectly lovely!”
“I only left Sydney ten days ago and I
haven’t had a chance, really, to—er—get
my bearings. Besides, you have been so
—er —busy, I mean—er —occupied”
“Freddie,” Huntley cut in gently, “you
have an effect upon me that is extraordi-
narily irritating.”
Freddie grinned disarmingly. “And you,
sir, if I may say so,” he retorted, “give me
a pain in the neck.”
Huntley laughed aloud. “You’ll do,” he
said. “Come and have a drink.”
CHAPTER IV.
The jetty at Baramata presented an
aspect of unwonted bustle as the mail
steamer, siren booming, picked her way
through the clutter of small craft which
dotted the harbor. Steamer day was a red-
letter day in Baramata’s calendar. Traders
and planters, miners and recruiters from
the outermost parts of the division fore-
gathered on the island for the monthly dis-
tribution of mail, the assimilation of news
and gossip and the laying in of stores.
The crowd on the jetty-head surged back
as the mooring-lines hurtled through the
air; a babble of high, excited native voices
rose as thick-thewed, half-naked laborers
seized them and dashed to the mooring-
bitts.
From the deck Marian surveyed the color-
ful scene below her with curious eyes. She
had half expected that this sudden plunge
into an environment which long ago had
been familiar to her—much more familiar
than Port Moresby—would have started a
tide of remembrance in full flood. She
sighed. Baramata, languorous in the aching
glare of the equatorial sun, was the reality
of a poet’s dream, an unforgettable fairy
vision, but it awakened no dormant memo-
ries in her.
It perplexed her, even frightened her a
little, this knowledge that, to her, Bara-
mata, Port Moresby, New Guinea itself
was an entirely new world. She realised
that she had been hoping with a fervor
that now surprised her that echoes, at least,
of her childhood would have come throng-
ing back to her. Something of her self-pos-
session deserted her. Momentarily she felt
absurdly small and weak and ineffective.
She turned impulsively to Huntley.
“It’s jolly to have you with me, Jim,”
she murmured. “Baramata is just the jump-
ing-off place, and I’m feeling panicky again.”
Huntley looked at her suddenly grave
face, and an emotion that was almost
paternal was aroused in him. He was aware
of an overpowering urgency to send her
back to Sydney; back to the sheltering
fences and the security of paved streets.
His intelligence told him to persuade her
to go back in the steamer; the official in
him urged him to exercise the powers in-
vested in him and compel her to go back.
And meanwhile the man in him exhorted
him to stand by her side, to intervene and
protect her, to see her through whatever
the future held for her.
He felt suddenly tired. He was aware
that, for good or ill, he had made a
supremely important decision.
“Baramata is the friendliest little place
in the world, my dear,” he said lightly.
“You’ll be delighted with everything here.
It is one of New Guinea’s show places.
Besides, the old hands will regard you as
one of themselves, and the lads of the
village will overwhelm you. As for young
Chisholm, they’ll hate him personally and
intensely.”
The tiny pucker vanished from Marian’s
face. She looked at Huntley mischievously.
A retort trembled on her lips, then, abruptly,
she turned the conversation.
“There’s a very large, stern-looking person
on the wharf,” she remarked. “He seems to
be signalling to somebody and getting cross
about it.”
Huntley followed her glance, started with
pleasure and waved a hand.
“That’s Marchmont,” he said—“another
old crony of your Aikoroa days. He is R.M.
here now —has been for years. You’ll like
him.”
With a short and careless jerk of the
head towards Huntley, Marchmont mounted
the gangplank and came aboard.
Huntley winced under the grip of his
hand.
“Wife and I have been worrying the soul
cases out of ourselves on your account.
Huntley,” he said. “How are you? Still
feeling a bit sorry for yourself? Fit?”
Huntley grinned. “Not so bad, March-
mont.”
“Good!” returned the other. “Glad to
hear it—damned glad, my boy.”
It was evident to Marian that here were
two men between whom existed a perfect
understanding.
Marchmont looked inquiringly at Marian.
“May I introduce Miss Durrant?” Hunt-
ley’s voice was eager. “An unnecessary for-
mality, really. Mr. Marchmont —Miss
Durrant.”
Marchmont straightened his big, loose-
limbed figure, jerked his shoulders for-
ward and bowed very courteously.
“How d’you, Miss Durrant?” he said in
a casual voice. Marian thought she had
never seen eyes so cold and blue and un-
wavering, a mouth so firm, a face so amaz-
ingly freckled. It was a purposeful, perhap?
even a ruthless face, yet an oddly attractive
face. For a moment Marchmont seemed
to be considering her, as though he was
searching his memory for something that
eluded him. Then his expression of polite
interest faded. He was almost startled. He
looked doubtfully towards Huntley, lifting
an interrogative eyebrow. In his face was
an unspoken question. Huntley nodded.
For a perceptible second Marchmont
hesitated. He shot a quick, perplexed
glance at Huntley; then he held out his
hand to Marian.
“My dear young lady,” he said, “this is
indeed a surprise and a very great pleasure.”
His eyes were clouded and grave, but his
voice was unexpectedly cordial. He
coughed. “You’ll find many friends here;
please count me amongst them.”
A hesitant little smile touched Marian’s
lips.
“You are very kind, Mr. Marchmont,” she
exclaimed. She had a ridiculous, breathless
impulse to throw her arms round the neck
of this big, unsmiling man who had stood
by her father’s side at Aikoroa so many
years ago.
“By the way,” Huntley interposed. “Have
you any news of the Maipua? She is
scheduled to sail at daylight to-morrow, is
she not?” He was scanning the roadstead
for the red funnel of the coastal steamer.
“I don’t see her.”
“You’re looking in the wrong direction.”
Marchmont told him. “She’s on the slip
with a damaged propeller. With luck she’ll
sail in about ten days’ time.”
Marian’s lip drooped. “Oh, dear!” she
exclaimed.
Huntley studied a ringbolt with intent,
unseeing eyes. “That’s awkward,” he said
at length. “That’s dashed awkward.”
Marchmont met his worried gaze. They
moved a little apart.
“Headquarters’ll be after my scalp if I
don’t hurry back to my station,” Huntley
continued. “Boardman, the Port Moresby
chap who’s relieving me, is not altogether a
success, by all accounts. I’ve got to get
back, there’s no question about that.”
“I’ve had a wireless from Port Moresby
to provide transport for you and a fellow
named Chisholm.”
“That means the Namodia —your divi-
sional launch.”
Marchmont nodded. “That helps,” Hunt-
ley mused aloud. “Decidedly that helps.
The two exchanged glances, Then, irre-
sistibly, their eyes were drawn to Marian.
Her head was craned over the rail. She was
bandying jests with Chisholm, who was
trying, unsuccessfully, to make known his
wants to a bushy-haired native policeman.
“What about the kid, Marchmont?
Huntley whispered.
“Good God, man!’' Marchmont affected
surprise. “Conventions are not what the>
were, I know; but, dammit, I really cannot
approve of your taking her with you m
the Namodia.”
“Don’t be an ass, old man,” Huntley cut
in. He looked oddly relieved. “I know
perfectly well that she can’t travel with
me.”
“Then leave the little lady m my care.
Jim. I’ll ’phone the wife and, between us.
we’ll work out something that’ll give you
breathing space. How does that strike
you*'”’
Huntley made a queer sound in his throat.
“Thanks,* old man,” he said briefly.
His eye wandered again to Marian, who.
perched upon the rail in characteristic
attitude, was offering derisive advice to the
now thoroughly exasperated Chisholm.


with butter and
cheese —fresh or stewed fruit
—ham or paste.
D
FAMOUS
zs
BISCUITS
MARK REGIS TER ED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge ”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £35.
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 15th October
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 12th November
Christmas Excursion.
Lovely Rarotonga. Another 23 days’ tour
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI” from Sydney, 24th December, 1931.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £45; SECOND CLASS RETURN. £34
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S.S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
TeL: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8393.
Marchmont filled his pipe. His face was
devoid of expression. “This is a damned
bad business, Jim,” he declared.
Huntley’s mouth hardened. “It’s worse
than that, old man,” he replied.
Friendly hands clapped Huntley on the
shoulder. Friendly voices greeted him as
he and Marian Durrant passed through the
crowd that thronged the jetty. Marchmont
had returned to his office, and Chisholm,
with the assistance of an obliging Customs
officer, was distributing suitcases and cabin-
trunks amongst the sweat-soaked, unclothed
luggage-porters.
The bone-white coral street quivered up
in heat waves. The graceful plumed fronds
of cocoanut-palms drooped languidly; the
scarlet, dark-tongued hibiscus wilted, the
red-flaring poincianas hung despondent
heads.
Everywhere were stores and warehouses,
with here and there wide-verandahed bun-
galows standing well back from the street
amid gardens riotous with color.
Marian walked by Huntley’s side, erect
and slight, a curve of laughter on her lips,
her eyes wide open, eager. A party of chat-
tering native girls, brown-skinned, bare-
breasted, swept by, walking with a wanton
side-swing of the hips that set their grass
kilts swaying. A toothless ancient, attired
in a string girdle, drowsed away the hot
hours in the shade of a patriarchal bread-
fruit tree; a gang of convicts in dingy,
broad-arrowed loincloths played listlessly
with yard-long weeding-knives, and smoked
and chatted with their accommodating
guards. One surly, hulking bull of a man
had strips of dirty calico wrapped tightly
round his ankles to take the chafe of heavy
irons that clanked as he shuffled along.
Marian touched Huntley’s arm. “What
a villainous creature, Jim!” she whispered.
“Is he—is he dangerous?”
“Just an ordinary murderer, I expect.”
Huntley’s voice was casual. The prisoner
caught the white man’s eye, grinned cheer-
fully and threw a gracious salute.
“He’s a pal of mine, moreover,” Huntley
added with a laugh.
Despite the stifling heat a little shiver
ran through Marian, and she pressed closer
to Huntley’s side.
“My dear child!” Huntley chided her.
“And you an old hand, too! Asa rule, a
New Guinea killer is a thoroughly decent
fellow. That lad loves his legirons. He feels
that the Government has conferred a very
high distinction upon him; singled him out
from among his fellows; recognised his
qualities in tangible form, so to speak.”
Marian passed her arm inside his elbow
and so they came to an arch of purple bou-
gainvillaea, behind which the sun-warped,
hospitable fapade of the International Hotel
stood revealed.
A man lounged in the doorway. He was
thin and wiry, with a narrow, swarthy face,
an aquiline nose, and furtive, darting eyes
under heavy black brows. His attire reached
the very zenith of Papuan correctness. His
white drill was impeccably laundered, his
canvas shoes were speckless. His silk shirt
was of just the right shade, and his socks
neither too subdued nor too vociferous. His
full, rather sensually-curved lips twisted into
a faint smile as he recognised Huntley, and,
moving out of the entrance, he lifted his
helmet with an exaggerated flourish. Hunt-
ley’s salute was the merest concession to
politeness. The stranger flicked an idle glance
at Marian. Then he was staring at her with
a sudden, quick interest. Marian’s eyes
swept him with an unseeing indifference, and
Huntley hurried her within.
From the bar sounded the tinkle of
glasses, loud laughter and a continuous
rumble of voices. It was the noon hour, and
Baramata’s only place of public refreshment
was crowded with sun-burned and sun-
bleached whites from store and office, calling
for relief for their parched and burning
throats.
The landlady, tight-skinned, faded, came
forward as Huntley and his companion
entered. She offered a limp hand, and, in
a thin, toneless voice, inquired after Hunt-
ley’s health. When she heard Marian’s
name she looked at the girl with more
attention than she had first bestowed upon
her.
“This young lady is Charlie Durrant’s
daughter, Mrs. Reeks.” Huntley hastened to
explain. “You’ll remember her as a child,
no doubt. May I have a table for three in
a quiet corner?”
He realised that he was talking to the air.
Mrs. Reeks was looking at Marian with an
interest she was wholly unable to conceal.
“Well, well now!” she exclaimed.
“ ’Course I rec’lect you.” She smiled at
Marian with extreme friendliness. “Why,
my dear,” she ran on, “I nursed you through
your first dose of fever, the time before your
poor, dear ma came in and—and”—she
broke off hastily. “Anyhow, it’s right glad
I am—and proud—to welcome you to the
old International. Come along in, my dear,
and sit yourself down and cool off, like.”
Mrs. Reeks’s tired eyes lit up with
pleasure, and, thrusting an arm within
Marian’s, she led her into the lounge.
“Charlie Durrant’s little girl!” Huntley
heard her saying. “Well, now! Who’d ’a’
thought it!”
Huntley tapped a cigarette on his thumb-
nail. A hand touched him on the shoulder
and a smooth voice remarked.
“That is Charlie Durrant’s kid, if I’m not
mistaken, Huntley. I’d like an introduc-
tion. What about it?”
CHAPTERV.
A cold, stony look crept into Huntley’s
eyes as he recognised the swarthy exquisite
he had all but cut at the hotel door. He
did not see, or affected not to see, the
beringed hand that was extended to him.
When he spoke there was a noticeable
sharpness in his voice.
“As usual, Calvert, you take far too much
for granted.”
Calvert’s eyebrows drew together. His
lips twitched, his shifty eyes narrowed.
“That,” he returned loftily, “remains to
be seen, my excellent policeman. My old
pal Charlie would never forgive me if I
neglected to pay my respects to his so-long-
expected daughter.”
“Cut it out, Calvert,” Huntley returned
coldly. “Miss Durrant is in my charge.
I do not propose to permit you, or the likes
of you, to come within coo-ee of her. Do
I make myself clear? Then keep away from
her.”
Calvert’s jauntiness vanished. Momen-
tarily he showed a face menacing, ugly.
“You have a hell of a lot to do with it,
haven’t you?” he sneered. “What you pro-
pose to permit cuts no ice with me. Out
of the way.”
He made a quick step towards the lounge
from which an animated voice and a dull,
tired one drifted. Huntley stepped squarely
in front of him.
“Keep off the grass—you!” he snapped.
“I don’t know what your relations with the
girl’s father are, I don’t want to know;
but if you force jmurself upon that kid
things will happen that will astonish you.
Savee?”
Calvert appeared completely taken aback,
his lips were drawn up from his extraordi-
narily white teeth, his eyes were narrow
slits, he was shaking with rage.
“I’ve had enough of your damned high-
handed arrogance, Huntley.” He spat out
the words venomously. “Get out of the
way.”
“Go to blazes!” Huntley snapped. He
turned on his heel and left Calvert standing
there.
“A table for three in a quiet comer,
if you can fix it, Mrs. Reeks,” he called
out. “What do you say to a stroll before
lunch, Maid Marian?”
Outdoors the golden sun poured down a
flood of heat upon the earth. The frag-
rance of rare and radiant blooms perfumed
the air. Marian sprang to her feet.
“Taubada! [master]” A uniformed mes-
senger stood at the door. He carried an
envelope stiffly between finger and thumb.
“B’long new fella sinabada [mistress],”
he volunteered, indicating Marian with a
vigorous jerk of the head.
Huntley took the letter and handed it to
Marian. She murmured an apology as she
opened it. There was a short silence broken
only by the subdued rumble of voices from
the bar and the rustle of the paper between
Marian’s fingers.
“Read it, Jim,” Marian said at last in a
small voice. Her hand trembled a little as
she passed the letter to him. Huntley read:
“Dear Marian Durrant —
It is a pleasure indeed to my husband and
myself to welcome you to Baramata. Mr.
Huntley has doubtless told you that you
will be delayed here for at least ten days.
May we ask you to stay with us at the
Residency as our guest? Your parents were
our friends at Aikoroa in the old days. We
should like you to feel that we are your
friends also. — Affectionately, Jane March-
mont.”
Marian’s mouth was twisted, her eyes
were brimming.
“Oh, Jim,” she exclaimed. “It’s just like
—like coming home.”
Dinner was over. The men of the party
were lolling in deep wicker chairs on the
wide verandah of the Residency. Marian,
in a sketchy fantasy in green georgette,
had drawn a little apart, and with her
hostess was immersed in an intimate con-
versation.
The stars were glowing, clear and serene,
in the soft blackness of the night sky above,
a faint breeze crooned in the palm-fronds,
and from the garden the fragrance of incense
drifted on the air.
Jane Marchmont was fifty and very plain
and very charming. She had known New
Guinea when the land was a hell of malaria
and dysentery and blackwater; when car-
nage and endless bloody tribal war devas-
tated the coast; when the civil service
was a skeleton corps of rum-guzzlers and
inspired geniuses, and the land was a land
for men. She was of the order of pioneer
women without whom Australia’s white
policy would be a catch phrase in the
mouths of politicians, or, at best, a shadowy
ideal impossible of realisation.
That afternoon she had taken Marian
Durrant to her arms as a mother would, and
the girl had clung to her, struggling with
an emotion that choked her. From that
moment the barriers of mere acquaintance-
ship had crumbled away, and their rela-
tions had been established on a cosily inti-
mate footing. The older woman had been
irresistibly drawn to the eager, vivid child
who was the daughter of her old friend.
She liked Marian’s impudent, knee-exhibit-
ing, nose-powdering modernity; she liked
the way she wore her clothes; her calm,
assured acceptance of Freddie Chisholm’s
open, puppy-like devotion; her casual, inti-
mate attitude towards Huntley; the way
she met your gaze and her serene belief
that she was a most experienced young
woman of the world.
And in Marian’s warm, young heart, Jane
Marchmont and her big, grim-faced husband
were enshrined for ever.
(.To he continued next week.)


Legal Notice.
yO ELIZABETH SEABORN O’TOOLE (nee HINDS)
FORMERLY OF MELBOURNE AUSTRALIA A
SISTER OF ISAAC HINDS DECEASED WHO DIED
INTESTATE IN NEW ZEALAND ON THE 14TH
DAY OF NOVEMBER 1929 AND TO HER
CHILDREN AND ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY
THROUGH OR UNDER THEM.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the 14th day
of August 1931 by a Judge of the Supreme Court
of New Zealand you are hereby called upon to send
in to the undersigned on or before the 31st day of
March 1932 your claims to the estate of the above-
named deceased failing which the said estate will
be distributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 17th day of August,
1931.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
yo JOHN O’CONNOR FORMERLY OF SYDNEY
AND COBAR (N.S.W.) SON OF MARGARET
O’CONNOR DECEASED AND TO HIS CHILDREN
OR OTHER ISSUE AND ALL PERSONS CLAIMING
BY THROUGH OR UNDER HIM OR THEM.
PURSUANT to an order made on 18th September
1931 by a Judge of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand you are hereby called upon to send in to
the undersigned ■ on or before 31st December 1931
your claims to the estate of the abovenamed deceased
who died intestate at Dunedin on 17th June 1931
failing which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto disregarding your
claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 21st day of September,
1931.
G. G. ROSE,
Soliictor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Lesral Notice.
£)AVIDSON, RUPERT HARTNELL.—
The daughters of the above, formerly of
Erroll Street, Prahran, Victoria, or their
children, are requested to communicate with
CAPRON & CO., Solicitors, Savile Place,
Conduit Street, London, England.
WHAT IS THE GOLD
STANDARD?
Very few people seem to know. By read-
ing last Thursday’s issue of “The Barrier
Miner” you will see that Britain has NOT
abandoned it, or even suspended it. Every-
body in the Far West is well informed on
matters of this kind, because they all (city
and country) read “The Barrier Miner,” which
is published in Broken Hill twice every day.
All the settlers buy no other daily newspaper.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE MIKADO-
CRITERION: HAY FEVER.
PALACE:
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING.
T C. WILLIA M S O N, L T D.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
DEAREST ENEMY.
COMEDY THEATRE:
CAPE FORLORN.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Phar Lap will be the great attraction at
the Randwick meetings commencing on
Saturday. The A.J.C. committee, while
deciding to bar geldings from its classic
races, to the end that future Phar Laps and
Gloamings may be preserved for the breed-
ing industry, has refused to punish Phar
Lap for being Phar Lap by handicapping
him in so-called w.-f.-a. races, as was very
unwisely done in Melbourne during the
autumn. That shortsighted innovation
deprived Phar Lap’s owners of a stake
which, had the conditions remained un-
altered, they would have collected, and
might have settled the champion—did indeed
temporarily knock him out. Horses like
Phar Lap and Windbag are not only en-
dowed with exceptional speed and endurance
but are splendidly game. Why should heart-
breaking burdens be imposed on such grand
specimens of the thoroughbred to encourage
fainthearted owners to run their animals
against them? The turf would be better
without such owners ; if the afraid-of-Phar
Lap .spirit were carried to its logical con-
clusion there would be no racing at all.
The greatest crowd that ever assembled at
Randwick was drawn by the magnet of a
weight-for-age race—the meeting of Beau-
ford and Eurytlimic—and it will be a sorry
day for the sport if the weight-for-age scale
should be altered so as to penalise the best
horse of his time or of his year.
Phar Lap is in the Spring Stakes on
Saturday, the Craven Plate on Wednesday
and the Randwick Plate on Saturday week.
Unless he goes off suddenly he should win
all three, but The Dimmer —who is work-
Bert: *Whms all the hurry, Gert
Gert:* Hold tight, bolted)
Bert : Vou meak to say shes
OUT OF CONTROL?"
G*ERT Ves; but JUST WAIT TILL SHE
WftHTS TO STOP, t'U. SHOW
HER WHOS BOSS!’
ing well, and is greatly fancied by his party
for the Melbourne Cup—should make a re-
spectable showing in the Spring Stakes and
the Randwick Plate.
• • • • • •
Ammon Ra is popularly reckoned a cer-
tainty for the A.J.C. Derby, and has cer-
tainly done well in his preparation, with the
colors up—he has won three good races easily
—and in morning gallops at Randwick. On
the other hand, Chatham caught a cold and
did no fast work for a fortnight; Johnnie
Jason was out of sorts after his defeat of Veil-
mond, Chide and co. at Warwick Farm, and
Ptolemy—second to Ammon Ra in the
Chelmsford Stakes—is under a cloud,
The Limond gelding’s task is thus appre-
ciablv lightened, and yet it may be doubted
whether he can stay. He looks nervous and
sweats freely before going out for a race,
and comes back giving the impression that
it has taken a lot out of him. Brilliant he
is unquestionably, but many a brilliant gal-
toper lias gone under in the Derby. . This
Page thinks highly of Chatham, and as he
was still in when this was written, will
have to pick him, though he may not be
at his best till the Melbourne Cup meeting.
If he is not a good one, and a stayer, his
looks and style of galloping are deceptive.
Johnnie Jason is also decent, although as
his work is not reported his condition must
be taken on trust; and Scobie would not have
brought Illustrious to Randwick if he did
not give Heroic’s son n chance Cvnress
Li cr htnin o- March and Rondalina wiffMielo
to
IL iDc Si! iVi, ®
show his true form in the Chelmsford Stakes.
After the Sydney Cup meeting, and again
after the declaration of the weights, this
Page suggested Sun Eagle and Salvador as
a likely Epsom and Metropolitan double, and
sees no reason to change its opinion now.
Nicely weighted four-year-olds (Sun Eagle
has 7st. 121 b. and Salvador 7st. 41b.), they
have so far satisfied their trainers, without
doing anything sensational, and the book-
maker's obviously hold them in respect. Pen-
theus (9st.) is a warm favorite for the
Epsom, and Veilmond (9st. 31b.) for the
longer race, but neither is remarkable for
stoutness of heart. On this score Waugoola
(Bst. 61b.), Autopay (the same) and Sir
Duiiinald (7st. 81b.) are to be preferred to
Pentheus, and Concentrate (Bst. 121 b.),
First Acre (Sst. 51b.), Spearman (Sst.) and
Talkie (7st. lib.) to Veilmond. John
Buchan is in both races, having Sst. 81b. in
the Epsom and 21b. less in the Metropolitan.
He is another horse whose courage may be
questioned, and so is Chide (9st. 41b. in the
Metrop.) ; .both, however, are brighter in
appearance than they have ever been before
in Australia, and one or other may be des-
tined to furnish a surprise. Burracootboo
is also in the two principal handicaps, hav-
ing 7st. 71b. in the Epsom and a pound less
in the Metrop. He will probably be with-
drawn from that race, and if he misses the
Epsom he may be worth toting in other
handicaps, for he is pretty good, though
rather green. Fancies :
Trial Stakes: Oratorian; next, Le
Legion.
A.J.C. Derby: Chatham, 1; Johnnie
Jason, 2; Ammon Ra, 3.
Epsom: Sun Eagle, 1; Sir Duninald, 2;
John Buchan, 3.
Spring Stakes: Phar Lap; next, The
Dimmer.
Kensington Handicap: Weotara; next,
Tantrum.
Metrop.: Salvador, 1; Concentrate, 2;
Spearman, 3.
He % H* #
It was bad luck, in a way, for the
Ilawkesbury club that rain should have
obliged it to postpone the meeting fixed for
Saturday; but the district needed the rain,
so there were no lamentations. Moreover,
Monday was a perfect spring day. Autopay
(5 to 4) had a brilliant all-the-way win
in the Flying Handicap, and “six” in 1.13,
with 9st. 61b. up, is slick going for the
Clarendon track. Naturally Autopay’s
Epsom price shortened, but there is just a
doubt whether he can see out a mile which
is pretty sure to be run at a clipping pace,
The 'Dimmer failed in the Spring Handicap,
won by Pinhoe from Black Douglas and Lord
Kennaquhair; but H'awkesbury conditions
would scarcely suit the Westralian-owned
horse. #
" '
When Phar Lap went down to Waterline
at Flemmgton last autumn, D. C. Davis,
Part-owner off the champion, was in the
U.S.A. On Saturday lie was at Moonee
Valley, and saw Waterline vanquished in the
Quality Handicap. This may have caused
Davis to form a poor opinion of Waterline s
galloping ability and to wonder how on
earth S. A. Rawdon s prad ever managed
to beat. T har Lap. But \ alley running
can be ignored, as Waterline palpably was
par He could not pace it with Wise
Dorce or St Lucia m the first few furlongs,
J e t> after being pocketed near the nome
£?J n . P“ sh «* hl * } va y through and actually
“it the fiont. Princess Betty then swooped
down and won, running away, by a length
? n,^ T a bait. Bred m Maoriland and trained
by Lou Robertson for A. T. Creswick, the
ocd b baa,r °a, she is a four-year-old chestnut
Uhiet Ruler. ....
. , . ■, • j <«a
. da “ Sk U' vmg ’ , wk ° Presides over ‘S
A. Rawdon s” private training establishment
Dandenong. took 61 on September 5, the
a a J which Mater line _ was unluckily
d « feat . ed * or , second Pj ace , in the
Memsie Stakes. Neither he nor the horse
appeared in public again until Saturday,
Skirving has not fully recovered and may
have to undergo an operation. While he was
bedrsdden Waterline probably had rather
light track tasks. The gelding shows no
sign of the muscular trouble which
affected him at Williamstown in August, and
his Cup preparation will now proceed ener-
getically.
......
The exceptionally good form revealed by
Vigne has lessened the chance of Pliar Lap
being produced for the Caulfield Cup. Davis,
while in Melbourne, commented on tne
futility of the chestnut trying to concede
Vigne 481 b.; if Phar Lap takes on a handi-
cap engagement in Melbourne it will doubt-
less be the Melbourne Cup. Miss Arrow,
who paid a record tote dividend (for Vic-
toria) of nearly 102 to 1 when she landed the
Tullamarine Handicap at the Valley, has
7.6 in the Caulfield Cup. She belongs to
V.R.C. committeeman H. Alan Currie. Last
spring Miss Arrow was third in the Victoria
Derby. She started favorite for the Oaks,
but finished nearly last. The event she cap-
tured at the Valley was for apprentice riders.
When the Spearhead mare cleared out no
serious effort to run her down was made until
too late; at one stage she had a break of
ten lengths. She held on gamely to score by
a length from Whitsome, a Rossendale mare
owned by Andrew Chirnside, whose colors
were carried to victory in the A.J.C. Epsom
Handicap of 1924 by Blackadder.
It was a day of big dividends, as Marsh-
field paid nearly 60 to 1 in the Trial Hurdle.
The aggregate of tote money staked in Mel-
bourne reached £lOO,OOO at the week-end.
This definitely means £5OOO for charities.
Cold Shoulder, who, like Miss Arrow, com-
peted in the last V.R.C. Oaks, won the
second division of the Merrie Trial in splen-
did style, coming from second-last. She is
by The Night Patrol, and, having broken
the ice, should keep on winning for George
Tantram, her owner-trainer. Sir Graculus, a
provincial star, scored brilliantly in the
Ailsa Handicap. It was his third success
on end.
* * it . a
Vigne has reached Melbourne. He was
entered for both the October Stakes and
Stand Handicap on Saturday, and will pro-
bably be produced for the latter race, run
over 11 miles. The October Stakes distance
is a mile. In it the most powerful rivals
of Waterline are Wise Force (despite the
suddenness with which he snuffed out at
Moonee Valley) and Ibrani. It will be in the
nature of a Caulfield Guineas trial for
Ibrani, who accumulates speed very quickly.
In the Stand Handicap a bunch that Vigne
will have to reckon with are Jacobin. Dar-
puna, Prince Dayton, Lord Essex and Far-
lure. The manner in which Jacobin scored
at Epsom on September 22 suggested that
this Adelaide-owned prad will take beating
in the Caulfield Cup. Fancies:—
October Stakes: Waterline; next, Wise
Force.
Stand Handicap: Vigne; next, Jacobin.
it * * *
W. H. Carmont, stipendiary steward to
the N.S.W. Northern Rivers Racing Associa-
tion, who died in Grafton recently at 72, was
a real old-timer in the racing game, his first
intimate connection with it being as secre-
tary of the Casino club many years ago, while
he had been connected with the Northern
Rivers body for 21 years, acting also as
handicapper in the early days. One of his
most interesting experiences was the trans-
fer of the Casino horse Sirius to Brisbane
to run in the Queensland Cup. The journey
was made over mountains and through flooded
creeks and rivers, and took over a week, but
in spite of that Sirius brought off the coup
—and the cup, of course. Another nag in the
caravan, Ajax, also scored at the same meet-
ing, so the party returned full of jubilation
and loaded down with spoil.
* * * *
“Sandown”: The cables have been mak-
ing much of a collection of racing oddities
which recently turned out in a minor event
at Gatwick. * One starter was tubed, and
whistled continually while running, while
another is one-eyed and can only run on
right-handed courses. Another had to be
urged on with a rattle, this being fixed to
the end of his rider’s whip, and won his
race with the aid of the unusual gadget.
Australia has had its equine eccentrics. Old
Carbine, for instance, had often to be induced
to move on to the course by the opening and
shutting of an umbrella, a thing he hated
mortally. On occasion, too, it was necessary
to make some play with a stockwhip in
order to get the old gentleman to move up to
the starter.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Lightweight champion Bobby Delaney met
Russ Critcher, the welterweight champion,
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday and won on
points. Delaney rushed in with lefts to head
and body, and kept Critcher on the defensive.
More than one of the lighter man’s lefts
landed low, but Critcher quickly recovered.
The welterweight is not proficient at leading,
however, and Delaney landed first so often
that he just about won every round. A bad
precedent was established when no weights
were given. Delaney was not over 10.0 and
should now be welterweight champion, but
because no announcement was made, Critcher
still holds the 10.7 title.
it if if
American negro Eddie Daniels lost his
third fight in this country when abo. Alby
Roberts beat him at Leichhardt. Daniels
(10.8) always forced, but could not contend
with his opponent’s cleverness. Roberts
(10.3), after knocking the importation over
with a nicely-timed left, went on to earn a
popular decision.
* ❖ ❖ *
Marvin Hart, dead at 56, held the world’s
championship for a fleeting hour, and under
rather peculiar circumstances. Hart took on
Root after Jim Jeffries had retired in 1905.
Hart won the scrap in 12 rounds, where-
upon Jeffries, who was referee, “presented"
him with the championship. Less than
a year later Tommy Burns challenged Hart
to defend his claim, and after carrying him
the 20 rounds took the title, which he was
to lose in his turn to Jack Johnson in Sydney.
Footbrawl
Victorian League's second semi-final,
between Geelong and Richmond brought some
49,000 to the M. C. Ground, with a gate of
£2507. A hard, clean game intrigued specta-
tors up to half-time, but thereafter Richmond’s
superiority in the air and its better hand-
ling left the Seasiders behind. Neither party
to the contract boasted much system ; it was
mostly man against man, with the Tigers
a shade the cleverer, especially across the
centre. But what paid them best was then-
accurate position play, and they won by 15
goals 9 behinds (99) to Geelo""’s 10 goals
6 behinds (66). Richmond’s hefty follower.
Foster, was the best man on the ground:
Murdoch, Titus, Geddes and Hunter weren’t
far behind. For the Pivot, Hickey was best,
with Metherall, Todd. Trougnton and Hardi-
man helping most. The seasiders still have
a chance of gaining the pennant if they can
beat Carlton next Saturday, but Carlton has
had an extra week’s rest, so the betting is on
the Blues.
* * # *
The Sydney football season practically
came to an end with the “grand final” be-
tween Sydney and Newtown at Erskineville.
Sydney winning 6-7 (43) to 4-14 (38).
Weather conditions were vile, but excellent
football was shown on occasions, though the
game was greatly marred by rough play,
which necessitated police interference more
than once. This is Sydney’s seventh Austra-
lian Rules premiership, the first occasion
being as long ago as 1905. and the last 20
years later. Newtown collected the honors
in 1908-28-29.
* * *
The Australian Rugby team in Maoriland
finished its tour with a win over Waikato
by 30 points to 10. Of the 10 matches
played, the tourists won only three, while
one was drawn; but for the first nine
matches, they scored 24 tries, 12 converting
goals and one penalty goal to 23 tries, 7
converting goals and 8 penalty goals.
* it # it
Maoriland has accepted an invitation to
send a Rugby Union team to tour the United
Kingdom during the season of 1936-37. Pre-
sumably the trip will include a couple of
games in France. The All Blacks have
a stiff record to live up to. The first ML.
team to visit the U.K. lost only one match,
and the last was unbeaten.


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
ENGLISH BONEHILL
12-GAUGE GUNS.
Special Heavy Models, 30in. and
32in. Barrels, both full choke, for
3in. Cartridges.
Hammer Gun £l3, Hammerless £2O,
Post Free.
Sil Rohu’s High Standard of Quality Firearms
and Fishing Tackle is well known throughout
Australia. If considering the purchase of any
of these goods, write for Catalogue (Firearm
500 Illustrations, or Fishing Tackle, 200 Illus-
st rations).
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith. Importer of High-grade Firearms
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street.) ’Phone: MA3540
FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
BRITAIN —MaKe Yotir Totir Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Plying Scotsman”—B} hours’ non-stoD rim
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED COMPORT
Apply jor full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
m
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £B9 228 378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON. ’ ’
St *» Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. ’
• Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Position 1 Vacant.
CHEEP. —Man to take charge of Queens-
land property running 6000 sheep. State
experience, salary required, and forward
copies of references and other information
to No. 224, Bulletin, Applications received
up to October 6.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge; Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Ins and Outs
W. P. McElhone, who has just resigned
his possie as president of the N.S.W. Cricket
Association, was a mighty fighter for the
betterment of the game, which owes much to
him. He will always deserve the gratitude
of those Australians with the true interests
of cricket at heart by the fight he led for
the establishment of the Board of Control.
This gave the game a national standing and
took its control out of the hands of semi-
professionals who for years had kept overseas
tours as a special preserve for themselves
and their friends. The change of methods
didn’t come about without friction, but in the
end the fighting spirit of “Mac” and his col-
leagues prevailed, to the great good of Aus-
tralian cricket.
* * $ *
“Hotham”: One of the most interesting
personalities Australian cricket has known
was given out in Melbourne for the last
time the other day. Blind Sam Morris, a
polished batsman and a first-class bowler,
was for many years able to claim the dis-
tinction of being the first West Indian native
to figure in a .Test match. This he did
in 1884-85, when he took part in the Mel-
bourne game against Shaw and Shrewsbury’s
side, scoring 14 for once out and bowling
Shrewsbury and W. Barnes. He represented
Victoria for years, and was for some time
caretaker of South Melbourne ground before
darkness came upon him. Old friends and
cricket associates looked after his closing
years and saw to it that the old man got his
fill of his chief enjoyment—“watching” big
cricket.
“Trent Bridge” : The passing of the cricket
season leaves England with no dazzling new-
comers in sight. There is a solid batting
side for the next Tests, but nothing aston-
ishing in the bowling line. Bowes, of York-
shire, a fast-medium merchant, had a good
season with 136 wickets, as did his brother
Tyke Verity (188 wickets), a slow left-
hander, who is trying to fill the shoes of
Wilfrid Rhodes. There is a likely amateur
in F. R. Brown, of Cambridge, who is a
slow bowler. He will have to do well to beat
Peebles, who on his performances against
Australia and South Africa is pretty well
a certainty for the next trip to the Antip-
odes. All three are hopeless batsmen. Of
the run-getters, the Nawab of Pataudi is
the only likely starter among the newer
entry. He. was second in averages with
69.23, and it is not unlikely that he and
Duleepsinhji will be partners in the next
“English” side.
* * * *
“Math.”: P. R. le Couteur, who puts his
hat on the headmaster’s peg in Newington
College (Sydney), holds the distinction of
scoring 160 and taking 11 wickets for 66
for Oxford v. Cambridge in 1910 —the best
all-round effort in English University
cricket. Although 46, the “head” is still
active enough to show the lads many wrinkles
in cricket.
“Five Ways”: After an absence of years
the. Queensland Cricket Association will
again stage its big matches, including the
Tests against South Africa, on the Brisbane
Cricket Oval, which for long has been tne
hunting-ground of the ponies, the dogs and
professional footracing, not to mention
“sports” almost, as dubious. The ground is
being re-conditioned in thorough fashion,
while a lot of money is being spent on addi-
tions to. the stands and other improvements.
The shift should prove profitable. For a
long time past big cricket in Queensland
has been played on the Exhibition Ground,
which is the home of the National Associa-
tion., a body corresponding to the N.S.W.
Agricultural Society. Members of this have
tree access to the ground, with a corres-
ponding effect on the cricket-gate takings,
while the National Association has also been
on the keen side in the matter of percentages
demanded.
Racquet and Bawl
“Toowong”; The Australian tennis heads
have decided to cut out travelling allow-
ances to players in the national champion-
ships, though train or steamer fares will be
provided. Queenslanders consider that this
will hit Barianaland players particularly
hard, for as the championships are being
held in Adelaide this year entrants from
the northern State will have to be at least
three weeks away from home. Moon and
Cummings are certain to go south as Queens- ‘
land representatives, but it is doubtful
whether any others will.
* * * *
‘‘Native Son”: Ellesworth Vines, the young
Californian who gave the bookmakers a
skinner by winning the U.S.A. championship
reached his twentieth year this week, adding
one more to the list of first-grade American
tennis-players who have hardly as yet taken
to shaving. He is 6ft. 2in. in height, and
with his tremendous reach likes a back-line
game, though occasionally he plays the net
and volleys with advantage. With a power-'
ful service, lie drives beautifully off both
hands. Ranking eighth on the American list
last season, he is already being acclaimed as
the legitimate successor to Tilden.
“Cash Amateur”: The big gate-money
taken in America last season by the Tilden
professional syndicate has set the somewhat
halting trend to professional tennis going
again. One Jeff Dixon says that next
season most of the leading European players
will be in the money game. He claims to have
signed up the two Germans Fraulein
Aussem and Dr. Prenn on a three-year con-
tract for £2500 per annum apiece. Also he
alleges that Cochet, who first wanted £40,000
for three years, has accepted £BOOO a year
for that period. The tale is being freely con-
tradicted, but not as yet by any of the
parties named. One thing is sure, and that is
that Europe, if past experience goes for
anything, will not' pay to see professional
exhibition tennis. Even Suzanne Lenglen
couldn’t make a do of it.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Iconoclast”: It is out at last. The secret
of Susie Tolhurst’s success in big golf is
said to be due to the fact that she milks four
cow t s each morning before breakfast in order
to keep her fingers and wrists supple. So
assiduously has the Victorian championette
practised that, though she did not bring her
entourage of cows with her to Sydney for the
recent Australian championships, she proved
THE REMEDY.
PUG: “Look wot QVs done to me! Wot’ll I do now?”
FED-UP TRAINER : “Aw, soo ’im fer damages.”
as invincible as ever. The principle might be
extended. _ For instance, sweeping and wash-
ing seem ideal practice for keeping the head
down while making a stroke, an accomplish-
ment in which many golfers of both sexes are
notoriously lacking. Practice of this sort
might not only improve a player’s game, but
would tend to remove the reproach levelled at
so many golfers of the weaker sex that they
are prone to neglect household duties in favor
of the Caledonian obsession.
“Macaroni”: This public golf-course idea
seems to be catching on all over Sydney.
The latest to be started will be in the centre
of Victoria Park racecourse, one of the chief
temples of pony worship. The links will be
open for the general public, of course, but
whether the game will carry on on race days
has not yet been decided. There is no reason
why the two great sports should not flourish
side by side. A good many Australians will
remember the pretty little course laid out
inside the racetfack of the Gezireh Club in
Cairo, on which the golfers ploughed their
various furrows unheeding of the turmoil of
the punters and the other sort.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The decision of the
N.S.W. Golf Council to institute a State
open golf championship will be welcomed as
bringing the State into line with Queensland
and Tasmania, the former having instituted a
competition of the kind as long ago as
1925. Its open has only once been won by an
amateur —Ivo Whitton, of course. The
N.S.W.- event is to be 72 holes of stroke
play, and will bo held on November 20 and
21. It is probable that the subsequent
tourneys will be held earlier in the year, for
courses are apt to be fiery in the summer
season. The venue is not yet decided,
but opinion is in favor of playing the
championship in two sections, each on
a different links, as is the custom with
most of the great overseas competitions.
Knowledge of the course is a distinct advan-
tage, and players performing on their own
club ground would benefit at the expense
of strangers.
“No. 1”: The Moore Park links have
earned a grisly prominence as a resort of
suicides .in the past two years. After the
Gap, the area between the Moore Park
incinerator and the brewery is more popular
with felo de se cases than any other
in or round Sydney. The short fourth,
which has the advantages of remote-
ness and privacy, being in the middle of
the course and flanked by hillocks, has been
most favored hitherto, but an innovator made
away with himself a few days ago at the
first, which is within a few yards of the
club-house. The territory in the neighbor-
hood of the seventh green, by the way, was
the scene of one of the most sensational
crimes that ever staggered Sydney—the Mt.
Rennie affair.
* * * *
“U.S.A.”: Why did Joe Kirkwood never
become an “open” champion? It is one of
the puzzles of the game. I have watched
him playing with and against Bobby Jones,
and been satisfied that he has all the strokes
of the Atlanta wonder, and a few more that
no other golfer in the world possesses. Some
of his shots out of
overhanging bunkers,
and his approaches
from almost impos-
sible positions, for
example. Jones had
to conquer an excit-
able temperament;
Kirkwood never had
one. Yet there has
been only one year
(1923) when the ex-
Australian had a
look in for the
British “open,” and
he upset his chances
then by a 78 in 'the
final that w T ould have
shamed a second-
rater. It is possible
that a golfer needs
something besides im-
perturbability an d
the capacity to make
all the shots —some-
thing equivalent to
“devil” in a pug. If
so it might account
for Joe. He is
so affable that it is
easy to picture him
hating to hurt an
adversary’s feelings
by licking him in a
really important
event.
“Kenso”: The
Lakes course, with
its little inland seas
rimmed by miniature
beaches and head-
lands crowned with
olive-colored scrub, and its glorious views
of Botany Bay and the mountains beyond, used
to be one of the most beautiful round Sydney.
Now it. only has the views. The cyclone of a
few months back destroyed the retaining
walls that had stood since the days when
this part of the w-orld supplied the city with
its water supply, and the lakes have been
replaced by seas of mud. Some profess not
to. mind, on the ground that the game’s the
thing; but beauty means a lot to most
golfers. Look how hard good clubs struggle
to preserve it when it is there, and create
it when it isn’t. Anyhow, it looks as if
the course is going to be beautiful again
irrespective of its controllers’ sentiments.
The Botany woolwashing and tanning indus-
tries came into existence on the assurance
that they would always have the use of the
water stored in the lakes, and they can’t
get alohg without it. The W. and S. Board,
which owns the area, wouldn’t have repaired
the dams to oblige the club, but it is more
than likely to do it to keep a couple of
thousand wool- and basil-workers off the
dole.
Car and Cycle
Whizz”: Norman Smith and his engineer
cobber-, Don H'arkness, will make their
attack on the world’s motor-car speed
record at the end of November or early in
December. Tides will be favorable then.
Smith says the chances of his putting up new
figures—he talks of 300- m.p.h., as against
the present record of 245.7—-are “a million
to one on.” Rather optimistic, but not
unduly so. The special “secret” aeroplane
engine fitted in the car is similar to that
used by Malcolm Campbell, and whereas
Campbell had the short and bumpy Daytona
Beach to work on Smith will have a run of
hard and mirror-smooth sand extending for
many miles. The streamlining of the Austra-
lian car-body has been designed to reduce
wind resistance 34 per cent, below that of
Campbell’s car.
“Onehunga”: According to H. J. Butcher,
a prominent official of the Auckland Automo-
bile Association, which is looking after
Smith’s attempt on the record, nothing is to
be left to chance. He is in Sydney at present,
having come over to finalise arrangements
with the men who are to pilot the car over
the beach run. The most elaborate means
have been taken to ensure accurate timing.
This will be done by a photo-electric appa-
ratus, controlled by beams of light projecting
across the track and connected with a record-
ing machine. The breaking of the beam by the
passing car at the beginning and finish of
the measured mile will be recorded on a
photographic film, and from this the time for
the run will be estimated. It will not
be officially recognised until the film has been
examined by the International Automobile
Association in Paris, and checked by that
body. .
“Mesh” : Details of the Alpine Trial, the
most strenuous all-round test for motor-cars
in the world, have just come to hand. The
show is run by the combined automobile 'clubs
of Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Italy and
France, and the run is over some 1500 miles
of roads through the Alps in those countries.
This year’s event—it is an annual —was held
over six daily stages, the average run being
about 250 miles. Cars over 3000 c.c. had to
maintain an average of 25 m.p.li. daily. Those
between 3000 and 1100 c.c. were asked to do
241 m.p.li., and those below 1100, 231.
Climbs to be negotiated ran as high as 9042
feet, and there were hairpin corners by the
score. There were 62 entrants from all over
Europe, 18 of which failed to stay the course.
Only seven finished with clean sheets, two
British entrants catching first prizes. The
successful Britons were D. Mealy, winner of
the last international Monte Carlo Rally, who
drove an Invicta, tyred by Dunlops, and
H. E. Symons, in a Talbot, also fitted with
Dunlop tyres.
* * #
“Sprocket”: There has been some doubt as
to whether the Olympiad programme at Los
Angeles would include track races for push-
bikes. It is now announced that there will
be three track events: 1000 metres scratch,
1000 metres time trial, unpaced, and a 2000
metres tandem race. Each nation may
nominate < two men, only one of whom may
ride in ah event.: The road race will be
decided on a straightway course of 100 kilo-
metres (62 miles 246 yards). Each nation
may enter six riders, four of whom may ride
in the race.- In addition to the individual
championship there will also be a teams
event, for which the performances of the best
three of the four riders will count. Aus-
tralia. which boasts a plethora of really
high-class track and road riders just now,
should certainly strain every nerve to get.
a team across to California next year.
Miscellaneous
“Splash”: Australian surf life-saving
methods are being adopted all over the
world, the latest countries to make inquiries
including Egypt, India, Belgium and Russia.
As far as Egypt is concerned the difficulty
will be to find the. surf, that at Alexandria
and Port Said being as formidable as the
breakers in a goldfish tank, while the Gyppo
bather who goes in. over his knees is a
rarity. Russia, too, might find a difficulty
with the system, which calls for prompt and
unhesitating response to orders from the
leader. Any tendency to hold stop-work
meetings to discuss who shall wear the belt
or man the reel is not conducive to actual
life-saving.
Ht * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum and Tom
Newman, now showing in Sydney, are nego-
tiating with an American firm for a tour
of Canada and the United States. Whether
they are to play exhibitions of English bil-
liards or to encounter local champions is
not clear. Though the English pocketed
table is occasionally encountered in Yankee-
dom, the universal game there is a variation
of the French cannon game on a pocketless
table 10ft. by sft., with balls 2§in. in dia-
meter. Owing to the weight of the balls
the cues are shorter and heavier than the
English variety. Only cannons are played,
each counting a point. The record stands
to the credit of H. Kerkau, a German player,
who strung together 7156 in succession, but
since then the game has been rendered more
difficult by the addition of what is known
as the “continuous baulk line,” which ex-
tends all round the table.


BRITISH WASH RIBBONS MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
The world-famed Washing Ribbons
made by Cash’s, of Coventry, England,
arc exactly the same as produced by
Cash’s in Australia. For all kinds of
Lingerie and Shoulder Straps, in many
dainty shades, guaranteed fadeless. Ask
your Draper.
e
to mariTTOXlTnen/
Are Indispensible to Every Home.
Absolutely Fadeless and Durable.
“A Few Stitches and Thev’re on.”
è
Actual Size, Style No. 6
SOLD BY ALL BEST DRAPERS.
'Write for Name Style Circular to
J &J. CASH,
IUSTRAUAN
ING CO PTY. LTD
85 CUBITTST.. RICHMOND MELB
12 d
7/6
6 d
5/
a/ 6
When Elderly Stockbrokers
Start Writing Poetry . . . .
. . . .They frequently blame a Springtime holiday amongst the
wild flowers of The Crampians as the reason for their offence.
In all seriousness, there is something magical in the colorful
riot of wild flowers, their vivid scarlets and blues and yellows
making a dazzling mantle for the rugged ramparts and
steeps of Western Victoria’s mountain wonderland.
The Grampians are reached by rail from Melbourne to Stawell (150
miles), thence by car for 16 miles.
Full particulars of special escorted tours or rail fares and accommodation
tariff at the several excellent hotels and guest-houses may be obtained at
the Government Tourist Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne; or from the
Victorian representative at the N.S.W. Bureau, Martin Place, Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Tenuon's Hotel
BRISBANE
the Cenire of queensland's
dis[?]nguished Socisl Lite.
A bright star in a social Aveek whose other
activities Avere rushlight Avas the Lud
Mayor’s reception to the Governor and his
lady. This filled the Toavu Hall with sol-
diers, sailors, churchmen and men of law.
their wives and daughters. It was a great
dress display, with decorations and jewels
flashing brilliantly.
Did an Australian mother e\ r er before
attend the consecration of her son as bishop in
an Australian cathedral? Mrs. Fox, mother
of tin' iioav R.C. bishop of the far-western
diocese of this State, Avas in a front pew at
St. Killian’s, Broken Hill, during the cere-
mony there. Mitred, the iicav bishop stepped
down to first give her the episcopal blessing.
Sir Hugh Poynter, back in Sydney after
his trip to Canada and England, tells of
interesting Aveek-ends spent with his kinsfolk
the Rudyard Kiplings and Stanley Bald-
Avins. Kipling is rather sick these days, and
full of sorrow at the Avay things have been
shaping in England. Stanley Baldwin faces
life Avith his indomitable spirit and the
cheerful philosophy of the man avliosc job
is the building up of things. What particu-
larly struck Sir Hugh Avas the lack of ambi-
tion in the young people he met in England.
Their voices and manners are pleasant, their
brains are keen enough, but they reject con-
centrated effort. On the old country homes,
too, tlie observant notice the marks of the
times. Even where they are kept open, they
slioav signs of running to seed: when they are
simply closed up, as many are, their gardens
are a wilderness, their furniture mildewing
in the closed rooms. Piccadilly on a June
afternoon is just about as full of Rolls
Royces and other expensive cars as ever,
but the prices have come down in the smart
restaurants, and now it is no longer neces-
sary to book ahead to secure a good table.
At the Australia the other day this Letter
sat beside the Pirate King. No, it wasn’t
Mr. Lang; it was Bernard Manning, of the
Gilbert and Sullivan company. Others of the
co. Avere in the group, including Marie Brem-
ner, who had wide strips of silver fox about
the elbow-sleeves of a wine-colored costume,
and knight Henry Braddon kept this meet-
ing of the G. and S. hall committee from run-
ning off the rails. The ball, which already
threatens to overflow the Town Hall, is hav-
ing “something different” in pageants. Vinia
de Loitte was there, and whispered that she
had thought of going as one of the peaches in
Utopia, Ltd., feeling she had a lien on this
opera, as husband Howard Vernon had been
the first to produce it in Australia.
The first-floor lounge bloomed Avith crisp
and cool spring frocks and hats —meetings of
committees these days are as dressed up as
the parties of other years. Younger sets
announced that they had decided to relent
and include squeakers and balloons among
the novelties for sale, as the older people were
so fond of them. And presently the meeting-
broke up. and everyone walked off with
George Fitzpatrick’s blessing and a bundle
of tickets that looked like little tracts.
Armfuls of glorious waratahs (they surely
Avere never so satiny as they are this year !)
are being brought in from North Shore
gardens. They grow them very well up that
Avay. B; E. Minns, who mixes bushcraft and
art in a most intimate fashion, has his own
secret for avoiding losses in transplanting.
By slowly burning the plant from the tip
downwards, he forces the sap into the root,
leaving only a charred stump to stand an inch
or two above the surface. Give a good
soaking, and in a feAv months you’ll see
strong shoots breaking out around the stump.
Professor Madsen, of the Medical School,
and Professor Vonwiller, the Physics man—
so handsome, he looks as though he might be
first cousin to the De Reske brothers —had
Avliat the daily press calls a large and dis-
tinguished audience the other night when
the one talked and the other repeated the
experiments through Avliich Michael Faraday
gave to the world his discovery of electro-
magnetic induction. This Faraday centenary
party was held in the, Great Hall of the
Uni. When the SOO or so invitations were
issued, the heads guessed 200 acceptances,
and the stage was set for a real orgy of
necromancy; but the invited rushed the gate,
until sitting room had to he found for some
of them on the stage itself.
What’s wrong with Australia when tAvo
of its citizens, Arthur Lavis, wise and brave
at six, and Patrick Kearney, brave and
young at 74, arc among the list of the heroic
to whom the ShipAvreck Relief and Humane
Society paid tribute last week? The boy,
his arm in a sling at the time, saved his
little sister from being drowned in a water-
hole near Yerong. Sister Nancy had gal-
lantly gone in after an eight-year-old brother,
avlio, in spite of her efforts, Avas drowned.
Only for the littlest of the trio, the tragedy
would have been a double one.
The fiddle which Marjorie Hambridge took
to London was an Australian-made, ricli-
toned Griffin. It excited much interest at
the Royal Academy, and played its part in
Marjorie’s success in getting into Sir Henry
Wood’s orchestra eight days after she had
entered the Academy. Sir Henry, Avitli coat
off and sleeves rolled up, works that orches-
tra into a state of deA-otion. F'or a recent
concert at the Queen’s Hall, Avhore Mar-
jorie was one of over 50 violins, he .kept
them rehearsing from early morning until a
quarter to two on the afternoon of the con-
cert. “I thought I worked hard at the Syd-
ney Con.,” says this girl from Wahroonga,
“but hero I know what hard Avork is, and I
love it.” At the time of writing last, she
Avas itching to get back from her holiday in
France.
Marjorie Hambridge’s letters make interest-
ing references to Jimmy Walker, Joyce Frew
and Jean Gillespie, other Sydney Con. stu-
dents at the Royal Academy. Jimmy is
remembered as the astonishing young pianist
avlio upset the heads at the Sydney Con.
Avhcn they asked him to play one of the
Bach preludes and fugues. “Which one
would you like?” he replied. Another item
of interest from the London musical world
is that Herbert Walenn, the ’cellist, brother
of Gerald, of the Sydney Con., has been in-
vited to examine at the Paris Conservatoire.
This is the first time in history that the
French school has sought an examiner in
England. A member of the Walenn family
is to be met in almost every art channel in
London, and, possibly because of Miss
Walenn’s association with Governor Carring-
ton’s household in Sydney years ago and
Gerald’s position at the Sydney Con., but
more likely because of innate kindness, the
London members are always eager to assist
Dominion artists in London.
What will Midge Chisholm do with her
Sydney dressmaking business now that she’s
become engaged to be married for the second
time? Mrs. Chisholm, who went to India
last July, has given her promise to Lieut.-
Colonel Norman H'enry Prendergast, of the
Q.V.O. Corps of Guides (Indian Frontier
Force). Before her marriage she Avas Mar-
jory Giles, only daughter of a well-known
Grammar master.
This is the latest Falk picture of Mrs.
Walter Kingsmill. wife of the President of
the Senate.
B o t h arc
W estralians —
by adoption
at any rate —
and the lady
is proud of
being the pre-
sident of the
West Austra-
lian Associa-
tion formed
in Sydney
about two
years ago.
Among Mrs.
Kings mill’s
other inter-
ests are the
Darling hurst
women’s
branch of the
N a t i o nalist
Part y, o f
Avhicli she is
chairwoman, and the National Council of
Women, of which she has been a member
for many years. She also shares her Sena-
tor’s interest in science; and she claims to
have had a bowing acquaintance with every
animal in the Perth Zoo when her husband
Avas president of the Acclimatisation Society
in the West.
The need for economy is once more turning
man’s thoughts to his old friend Dobbin, who,
they say, is cheaper to run for short dis-
tances than a motor vehicle. Certainly
there’s more style about a pair of Clydes-
dales, brave in brass-studded harness, than
in the hooting rattle and swoop of a, motor-
lorry. The butcher’s boy, on his own legs,
may be less than an ordinary youth, but
astride his steed he has the air of a con-
queror as he delivers the family steak. But
; the roads made for motor-cars are hard on
horses’ feet, and if Dobbin is staging a come-
back, something Avill have to be done about
that.
Saturday Avas to have seen a great parade
and show ; but the weather Avashed out all the
programme, after the parade, and cancelled
also this fixture’s half-brother, with polo
added, at Cobbitty.
That Maoriland was raised to the status
of a Dominion in 1907 Avas rejoiced o\-er by
sev-eral hundreds in Sydney when the anni-
versary occurred last week. Perhaps the
King’s Hall, where the celebration took
place, Avas filled by exiled Maorilanders;
or perhaps the lure of it Maori movie show-
ing marvels in the way of fishing and scenery
in “The Long White Cloud” drew many.
Iu the principal picture, a romance of war-
ring tribes, handsome Maori chiefs and
pretty Maori girls Avere seen in poi dances
and war hakas, girls cooked in the boiling
springs and young men canoed like demons
on great rivers—all against the background
of a smouldering and just-about-to-erupt vol-
cano. Trade Commissioner Schmitt deseiwed
and received congratulations.
His old friends of the Lyceum Club roped
in Sir Hugh Poynter to open the exhibi-
tion of their members’ work last Aveek, and
were delighted when he described their club
as “a cabinet of all the talents.’" The little
stage in the assembly-room was brave with
rhododendrons and bowls of velvety pussy
willow, and president Mrs. Muscio and Mary
Gilmore made postscripts to Sir Hugh’s re-
marks. The work, arranged on many tables
and on the Avails, sent out waves of color,
for all the arts and crafts are in the dis-
play. Pearl Sheldon’s paintings smiled down
on glowing pottery, on the delicate c-hina
painting of Daisy Dowse, on the vivid bind-
ings of Mary Gilmore's books of verse. Stella
George’s batik scarves suggested a book of
Tagore in an Eastern garden; and, among
the poets, M. A. Robertson’s illuminated
verse-sheets made an interesting display.
Marjorie Quinn and Gloria Sims Avere among
the literary exhibitors, and Marion Kellie’s
hand-written cards held a proud place among
the works of art. The big room was full
of good works; occasionally these —as in
the case of Ada Newman’s pottery—soared
from the amateur into the highest profes-
sional class. The club’s trio and lan Thomp-
son, Avho has a voice like a lark, decanted
sweet sounds during the opening ceremony.
Herewith Daisy Dowse, younger daughter
of the Colonel Doavnon, and one of the city’s
mo s t gifted
c r aftswomen.
II c r pottery
wares a r e
rhythmic of
design, and
li e r chi n a
painting is
delicate and
i m a ginative.
One va s <
shown by her
in last week’s
Lyceum Club's
exhibition had
a decoration
of violets,
fresh and dew>
as the real
thing in early
m o r n i n g.
Daisy exhibits
Avith the Arts
a n d Crafts
Society; she
studied her work at the Cooper Union, out-
side New York, when the family lived there
during the war years.
When Mrs. Guy Prior, wife of the medical
superintendent of Parramatta Mental Hos-
pital, gives a garden party, she has some-
thing particularly gorgeous in the way of
floral outbursts to spread before her friends.
The grounds about her home have a glory
to fit each season. Just now the wistaria
trails its enchantment in every corner and
curve of the paths. Last Wednesday nearly
100 Parramatta women Avalked beneath the
arches on which the grey-mauve sprays swing
airily, and stood in groups about a more
opulent display which had been trained
pagoda-wise; or the chiffon and muslin frills
of the moment ruffled under the trcllised way
that is like some cool lilac cloister. But
sooner or later all came to pause on the
little footbridge, over both sides of which
the wistaria grows and rains upon the path.
Over the edges of the bridge it riots, a carpet
of bloom, cunningly trellised above a dammed-
up pool of the Parramatta River, on which
it has scattered its petals until it might
seem that, wandering with Endymion, you
had come upon some stream of sunset waters.
The nurses’ at-home for St. Vincent’s
was for years one of the few entertain-
ments that were not alike ns cheese. It
used to be a mixed song-and-dance, in which
the young'doctors and nurses were the cast,
held in a courtyard whose sides were tlie
towering- Avails of St. Vincent’s wards. But
these last two years the nurses have made
their effort for the hospital’s funds on more
every-night lines, and their dance in the Blax-
-1 and Galleries last Aveek resulted in a full
house. Surgeon John McKelvey was patron ;
Dr. J. J. Woodburn Avas president, and the
work of treasurer and secretary Avas attended
to by six nurses as attractive as they were
efficient. All the young doctors in Sydney
seemed to be among tlie dancers; if married
they Avere Avith their wwes, all well dressed
in spite of these lean days for medicine
men. Are times really as cracked as they
sound ?
Talking about the alikeness of cheese,
this is one of the burdens of our “Con-
tinental” colonies. “In France,” says
Madame Woolbuyer. “I Avould delight to
set out at least 20 quite different cheeses
for supper. But here—ooh! how many?—
two, three, four? In Italy they have much
more cheeses than wines: a valley finds it
can make something a little different, and,
in a few years, perhaps 50, perhaps 500,
it is known everywhere. And then it is very
proud.”
Doris Fitton was hostess at one of the
Independents’ parties last week. Besides
dancing there were three very good sketches
to help the hours pass by on greased skis.
A funny playlet on the influence of the
swing-back to Yietorianism in women’s
clothes showed an ultra-smart young woman,
bustle, bowler hat and all, declining to drive
forth with her young man in his sports car,
and demanding a brougham, or at least
a dogcart. A hansom from the Quay is the
best Edwin can produce at a moment’s
notice; but the question of the chaperone
then arises. Clarence Murphy, as the wil-
lowy, languishing young female, and Arthur
Race, as the bewildered modern, carried it
through on a gale of laughter.
Hector MacQuarrie tells that the old-time
Sydney athlete Snowy Baker is an outstand-
ing personage in Hollywood". An introduction
from Snowy, he says, will send you direct
through the doors of the most exclusive salon.
A few Brisbane chirps:—
Colin Campbell, of Merino Downs, Roma, and
Muriel Ferguson were married at Coongoola South,
Cunnamulla. The bride, who was given away by
her father, was in buttercup satin, with a long-
tulle veil in the same shade. Jessie Campbell ’maided
in golden satin charmante. Mr. and Mrs. Ferguson
entertained some 50 guests to the feast.
Chief Justice Blair and his wife went to Tatter-
sail’s races at Ascot, the lady giving a tea on
the committee-room verandah. Others present on the
lawns were the Isaac Moores, Mrs. Moore, in black
with touch of turquoise; Sirs. E. K. Tully, in navy
and white ; Mrs. Ken Reid, in navy and red; the
Cadell Garricks, the Jack Chandlers and Spencer
Brownes.
The By Land and Sea pageant, held under
tlie auspices of the CAV.A. and the Seamen’s Insti-
tute, was a medley of gay costuming, dance and song-.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin were present on the
first night, the Archbishop of Brisbane (Dr. S.
Sharp), the Premier, Mayor Greene and Mesdames
C. V. Bailey and R. E. Nixon-Smith being in the
vice-regal party. In the “Dream of Fair Women’’
Mrs. Moore took the part of Elizabeth in royal-blue
velvet and ermine; Mrs. Greene was Cleopatra in
crimson and gold; orchid-mauve robes transformed
Mrs. Nixon-Smith into Eleanor; and Ann Blundell
was Helen of Troy in Grecian robes with gold filet
on her hair.
At Corpus Christi, Nundah, Eric Leach and May
Clutterbuck exchanged matrimonial vows. The bride,
who was given away by her father-, was in white
bridal satin, with a veil of Brussels lace. The
Carlton sa.w the feasting and the ’moon rises in
N.S.W.
Two well-known Queensland families were joined
when William Guy M. Walker took to wife Ella
Lethbridge at All Saints’, Mitchell. The bride was
in ivory satin and a Limerick-lace veil which was
worn 70 years ago by her grandmother. Maude
Lethbridge and Mollie Lethbridge ’maided in daffodil
georgette. The reception was at the Hotel Mitchell,
where Mrs. Lethbridge received in beige lace - and
georgette.
The National Council of Women, a society that
never begs, had one of its rare benefit functions at
Mrs. William Smyth’s home, Te Aroha, New Farm.
The hostess, in black georgette and cobweb lace,
received the guests, assisted by her niece, Mrs.
C. W. Arrosmitli (M.L.), and Mrs. F. W. S. Cumbrae
Stewart, president of the National Council of Women.
The Blair lady was in black with a mushroom-pink
hat, Mrs. A. E. Moore in pink and black, and the
Mayoress in black and white with a white hat.
There were bridge competitions, and a musical and
elocutionary programme was given by Mesdames
Norman Miller, Barry, Armyne Gildea, Eva and
Jean Watt.
A Highland wedding was that of Murdo McLeod
and Betty Gordon, in St. Paul’s, Brisbane, the bride,
being played to the church by the pipes of Mackin-
tosh. She was in white • marietta and Brussels-laee
veil. Mary Gordon, in salmon pink mariette, ’maided
for her sister. The Ann Hathaway saw the feasting
and more bagpipes played the bride and groom
“awa’.”
At tlie back of the North Wind :
Dr. David Brown, of Katherine, married Evelyn
Ann, only daughter of Harry Hardy, of Burrundi.
one cool morning last month. The Anglican Church
saw the ceremony, and the bride looked a dream in
her Chantilly lace over ivory satin, with long em-
broidered veil and orange-blossom wreath. Mrs.
Fawsett, in pink crepe de Chine, was matron of
honor, and her father gave away the bride. After a
honeymoon down South, Alice Springs will be the
bride’s new home.
Alice, youngest daughter of Mrs. Nellie Fisher, of
Mataranaka, and James Simpson Kirkwood were made
one by the -Rev. Father Hensehke, of St. Mary’s
Church, Darwin, last week. The bride was gowned
in green georgette over white satin; and her sister,
Mrs. Seale, in powder-blue satin, was matron of
honor.
H.M.A.S. Australia is due to show her flag in
Darwin harbor while this screed is on its way.
The Victoria League is staging a dance for captain and
officers, the R.A.0.8. is holding out the glad hand
of welcome to brother Buffaloes, the rifle club has
challenged shooters on the warboat to a match, and
the local cricket team has offered to try and lick
them at the national game.


Public Notice.
jgRITISH-AUSTRALIAN WOOL REALI-
SATION ASSOCIATION, LIMITED
(In Liquidation).
Liquidators’ FINAL Distribution—
£7s3,s32.
11,302,989 SHARES—Is. 4d. PER SHARE.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on
March 15, 1932, the Liquidators of the
abovenamed Association will distribute
£753,532, equivalent to ONE SHILLING
AND FOURPENCE PER SHARE
THIS WILL BE THE FINAL PAYMENT.
Share Certificates must be forwarded to
the Office of the Association (In Liquida-
tion), 540-542 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, for verification before payment can
be made. Certificates upon which payment
is made will be CANCELLED AND RE-
TAINED by the Association.
The Distribution will be made in accord-
ance with the holdings of Contributories as
recorded in the Registers of the Association
(In Liquidation) on September 1, 1931, and
cheques payable to order will be sent direct
to the registered holders of Certificates.
No cheques will be posted unless the Share
Certificates have been received at the Office
of the Association for verification.
The Transfer Books and the Registers of
Contributories of the Association were
DEFINITELY CLOSED on Monday,
August 31, 1931, and, as publicly announced'
will NOT BE REOPENED.
J. M. HIGGINS 1 _.
CHAS. R. MURPHYi Liquidators.
540-542 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Cl.
A|
*
van, Vj)j//
I stepped on the throttle, and Doris,
and he
V
(•)
I speeded, Jack speeded, we speeded
all three.
Sp«
\
COR
/
Jf
“Great Scott!” cried the
pumpman who served
us with “juice”
“C.O.R.’s in their tanks,
so they go like the
deuce.”
{After Browning).
You can be a positive crank on speed and power and miles-
per-gallon and still help Australia through—by using C.O.R.
For joUy as an Australian citizen are a shareholder in the
splendid C.O.R. organisation—an industry half-owned by
your own Commonwealth Government. And you cannot
buy a finer motor spirit than C.O.R.
MOTO
a
PIRIT
A fine Spirit . . and your own
TJZv * /Wen k neri e td. ( Com J nonwealt h Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
C ill 8/30/31 byd y ' Ag fol Q ueen sland, South Australia and Country Districts of New South Wales, DALGETY & CO. LTD.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Hollywood has done nothing so good in the
way of historical records as British Inter-
national’s “Dreyfus,” at Sydney Lyceum.
The director has been careful not to meio-
dramatise the story; the miseries of the Jew
and his family are, if anything, under-
stated. The French clothes, manners and
military uniforms of the ’nineties are repro-
duced with such fidelity that the period lives
again, and the casting is almost flawless.
Cedric Hardwicke—smallish, spare, spruce,
bald, with near-sighted eyes behind rimless
pince-nez, and the professorial manner of
the true staff officer—is a replica of the
Dreyfus whom the whole world knew 30 years
ago. George Merritt is a somewhat outsize
Zola, but facially he is perfect, and so are
the capable actors who play Labori and Bcr-
tillon. Garry Marsh looks more like a ser-
geant-major than the finicking aristocrat that
Esterhazy was, but he reveals the soul of
the man by many subtle touches; and
Charles Carson is equally good as Picquart,
the anti-Semite who made the shattering
discovery that Dreyfus was innocent, and
preferred ruin to silence. The story is told
in brief, business-like shots. There are no
photographic tricks, and no heroics. Zola
doesn’t read “J’Accuse” like an actor but
like a writer. When Dreyfus first finds him-
self in a cell he feels the texture of the bed-
clothes with shuddering interest instead of
dashing himself against' the bars. He
marches on to the parade-ground to be
degraded, and off it afterwards, eyes to the
front and in step with his guards, for he
is Dreyfus, a soldier, not an actor. Even
his famous cry, “I am innocent!” is uttered
with restraint; he isn’t raving, but pro-
claiming a fact. Talkies which record his-
torical events while they are fresh in the
memories of the directors and performers
ought to be as valuable to future generations
as a reproduction of, say, the trial of Warren
Hastings would be to us. That is if they are
skilled and honest jobs, as this one is.
* ¥ #
“The Outsider,” at Sydney State, suffers
from several handicaps. The case of a
crippled girl doesn’t admit of action, and
talkies live by action; and the conflict of
opinion on the subject involves rhetoric which
is harder to bear from shadows than from
humans. The venue is England, but the
directors are Americans, and they have made
the usual gaffes. There is a scene at a
fashionable night club in which the members
of a supper-party get uproariously drunk and
dance on the table. It couldn’t happen in
the West End of London ; in fact, the U.S.A.
is the only civilised country in which it coirld
happen nowadays. De Mille’s imaginative
but old-fashioned touch is apparent. The
settings are beautiful, ingenious and lavish,
and the photographer has done his best with
them, but he has been diverted from the good
work again and again to provide tedious
close-ups of the suffering heroine according
to the De Millo formula. The play agonises
slowly along from the stage where Joan
Barry is discovered mourning over her in-
firmity to the appearance of Harold Hutli,
the magnetic inventor of “Ragatsky’s Rack,”
her decision to let him treat her, their idyllic
love affair, and the climax. It is well acted.
Joan Barry’s outburst when she thinks the
cure has failed is moving, and Harold Huth,
the arrogant, over-dressed bounder who
drives the B.M.A. chieftains before him like
sheep, is as convincing as anyone could be
in such a part. Norman McKinnel, the
surgeon-father, is good. too. But it is a
sugary fairy-tale of false sentiment and in-
credible situations which has lost in glamor
by being transferred to the screen.
# ¥ *
“Just a Gigolo,” at Sydney Regent, is an
Anglo-American talkie (M.-G.-M.) with Wil-
liam Haines as Lord Robert Brummel. The
director has given it verisimilitude by mak-
ing Haines a Canadian, which disposes of
his accent, and by staging the proceedings
on the neutral soil of Biarritz. The star’s
part resembles the one he had in “A Tailor-
made Man”—that of a mercurial suit-
presser—and he plays it with the same
voice and mannerisms. His uncle, O.
Aubrey Smith, wants him to marry Irene
Purcell, a girl of their own class. Haines
has a theory that all society girls miscon-
duct themselves with gigolos if given the
chance, and undertakes to propose to Miss
Purcell whom he hasn’t met, if he can’t
prove her lack of virtue inside a month.
He is next seen as her dancing-partner.
She falls in love with him, but declines to
go on an unofficial honeymoon. Then she
discovers his identity and, boiling with in-
dignation, professes eagerness for the deed
of shame. But he loves her by now and
recoils from it. The big moment comes at
their hotel, where she addresses him by his
right name, boxes his ears hard, and rushes
into h'er bedroom and locks the door. FjX-
planations and happiness follow. Miss Pur-
cell outshines the rest of the cast. She has
a comedy sense and an attractive voice,
and she dresses better than most of the
Americans. Incidentally, she registers
naughtiness as forcefully as any exotic.
“Young Sinners”( Fox), the other Regent
feature, is a formless blend of two familiar
themes. The first half is orgiastic. Amid
the languors and lilies of Florida, wealthy
boys and girls with voices like Colombo
shrikes, booze, hug, tear about in speed-
boats, annoy the police and revile their
parents for not bringing them up better.
The parents appear periodically and revile
their children. Dorothy Jordan’s engage-
ment to a preposterous German baron is
announced by her snobbish mother, though the
girl loves dipsomaniacal young Hardie Al-
bright, unwisely and too well. Hardie
goes away and gets drunker than
usual. The second half concerns his moral
and physical regeneration at the hands of
Tom Meighan amid the rigors of the Far
North. Meighan has undertaken to make a
man and a teetotaller of Albright inside a
year. His treatment, which consists of knock-
out blows on the jaw, soon wins him the affec-
tion of his charge. One night Meighan goes
to a family reunion—Hardie having given
his word to behave —and Miss Jordan turns
up. Is Hardie pleased? Far from it. Her
efforts to lure him from virtue’s path fail.
He puts her in one room, and locks him-
self up in another. Meighan returns, sus-
pects the worst and supplies the only cure
he knows —a punch on the jaw. His
patient, hardened by the simple life, hits
back, and a fight rages up and down the
shack which is ended by the defeat of
Meighan, the arrival of the winner’s father,
the emergence of Miss Jordan and the
announcement of the young people’s engage-
ment. Drivel, of course, but it is acted
and produced as well as most of them.
A phenomenon at Melb. Palace on Satur-
day was an entire programme of all-Austra-
lian talkies by the Harwood Co. There were
talkie shorts, a drama, “Spur of the Moment,'’
the scenario for which was written by Betty
Davies, and “Isle of Intrigue,” a South Seas
Island romance, for which nobody seemed to
claim the authorship. The affair was more in
the nature of a trial flight to enable the
pioneers to see how far they have got in
their struggle with a difficult and unfamiliar
medium than a contribution to the drama, but
the reactions of the audience to every touch
of local atmosphere showed that Australian
producers have won half the battle already
as far as the sympathies of the public are
concerned. A scene at a midnight pieshop in
Flinders-street in “Spur of the Moment” was
immediately recognised as something almost
everybody knew something about. One play
is set in Melbourne and the other partly
in Australia; both are modelled on well-
known overseas exemplars. The sound-repro-
duction is indifferent in places, but the
photography is satisfactory. The actors,
most of whom are well-known professionals
like Darcy Kelway, do well in their melo-
dramatic moments, but some of the super-
numeraries display camera-consciousness.
Though the effort is not likely to have more
than a success of curiosity, it shows that
there is good material available for experi-
ence to work on.


Missing Friends.
YY/ILL JACK COLWILL, of Devon, Eng
” land, communicate with his sister Ada,
or Elsie. Home address.
Make Baby Comfortable
use
Cuticura Talcum
After his daily bath with
Cuticura Soap shake on
some Cutieura Talcum.
Pure and medicated, it soothes
and comforts his tender skin
and also prevents chafing and
irritation.
Soap 18. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. V.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane ‘‘Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane "‘Telegraph carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Melbourne
Chaitter
Buckley's
Clizabelhran
Ten Booms
Phone [?] [?]
[?] [?] [?]
[?] [?]
Moonee Valley racecourse, with its planta-
tions of elms, planes and other English trees,
put on its springtime dress on Saturday and
provided an array of greens that would have
made a pretty setting for feminine frippery,
but alas! there were frequent showers.
Despite this the attendance was large and
the totes did a roaring business. Millinery
followed the glossy-straw bowler shapes of
the moment. Mrs. Ben Chaffey was present
with Miss McPherson and the Alec Hunters.
Mr. and Mrs. James Purves were accom-
panied by daughter Valerie, smart in a
nigger-brown ensemble. Captain and Mrs.
Ronald McDonald were there, she in tweed
with hat to match. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald
was in black with a shiny straw chapeau.
Mrs. A. McCracken. Mrs. Merson Cooper
and the J. Fells and their daughter Mrs.
Orespin, were onlookers. Premier Hogan
had afternoon-tea with Mr. and Mrs. W.
Rogers Thomson and a party. I. H. Cqlien
brought his daughter Cynthia, whose pleated
grey skirt was topped by a bottle-green short
coat and a grey felt hat. Nancy Hewlett,
just back from the golf tournament m Syd-
ney, was companioned by Ann Willis, a
study in royal blue. Among visitors to Mel-
bourne were Mr. Justice Starke, Mayor
Waugh, of Albury, and T. Lyons, of the
Speck.
The engagement is announced of Evelyn,
second daughter of the late Neville Howse.
to Walter, son of the late Stuart D. Brun-
ton. The bride-to-be, who is known to her
friends as Garda, is a handsome girl of dis-
tinctive personality, with a flair for clothes.
The dance put on by the late Neville
Howse’s lady at No. 9 served to celebrate
the coming-o'f-age and the engagement of her
daughter Evelyn. Miss Howse’s fiance was
there to share congratulations. The hostess
wore a gown of black cr@pe almonza and _a
coatee of black velvet. White organdie
muslin embroidered here and there in floral
effect and topped by a pale green satin coat
was worn by Evelyn, and Tier elder sister,
Eril, sported’ a frilled frock of dark iris tint.
Among the guests were Mrs. Stuart Brunton,
in georgette of bottle-green hue; her daugh-
ter, clad in warm red chiffon; the Robert
Knoxes; John Brunton, of Sydney; and Dr.
and Mrs. W. K. Davenport.
Mamie, third daughter of the J. F.
Roches, of Toorak, exchanged vows with
Flight-Lieut. James Wright Lissett at St.
Pat’s Cathedral, wearing a flared frock of
honey-tinted silken lace fashioned with a
longish coat that was bordered with dark
fur. A shady hat of matching straw,
trimmed with gardenias, and a posy of pink
and blue flowers completed the picture. Her
sister Ethel attended her in blue-and-white
spotted crepe de Chine, with a frilly white
chiffon bolero bodice and a dashing little
white hat with a blue wing. The bridegroom,
who arrived from England recently, was m
the picturesque full-dress uniform of the
Air Force. They will start housekeeping
in India.
Queen’s Hall has on its walls many trans-
cripts of Italian landscape, mostly in water-
color, with a few glimpses of Australia, cap-
tured by Irene Carter. Miss Carter was
born in Melbourne, but her parents migrated
to Perth when she was wee. Etcher
Van Raalte directed her art studies, and
lier first efforts were in black and white.
Then she went to Italy and studied for
four years. She sold many landscapes m
Italy and France, and wound up by hold-
ing a show in Milan and becoming a
member of the Rassegna Femmimile Italiana.
In Italy her teachers were the Venetians
Augusto Sezanne, a famous flower painter,
and Bruguoli, an etcher. With her sister
Miss Carter has come to Melbourne tor a
stay of a few months. Stanley Argyle, who
was introduced by Dr Mackeddie, launched
her Melbourne show.
The Past Students’ Dramatic Club of the
Free Kindergarten Union, guided by Irene
Appleton, put on a performance of Laurence
Eyre’s “Miss Nell o’ New Orleans.” Annie
Dreyer made a hit as the fascinating Nelly
Daventry of the title, and equally com-
mendable were Noel Burbank, as Georges
Durand, and Keith Page in the cassock of
the priest P&re Clement. .Gwendoline
Edwards was natural as the ex-sclioolgirl
Delphine Falaise. Ida Liddle, Jim B.
McLean and Molly Yewers impersonated
negroes.
The first-night audience at “Cape Forlorn”
was well dressed. Many of the women wore
white fur coats and others favored erminette.
In the throng were the Phil Kelynacks, Mrs.
W. E. Bates, Mrs. Rupert Hart and her
daughters, Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Crosbie, Mrs.
Ernest Fowling, of Warrnambool, and her
son, J. Powling, Beryl Ainslie and Jean
Murdoch.
The annual festival at the Showground
is wrongly named. It ought to be called
the Heidelberg Show. Consider some of the
entrants who hail from that salubrious
suburb, watered by the crystal Yarra. 11. W.
Gepp, of the Unemployment Committee, pro-
vided Clydesdales. H. Bartram, the squire
of Heidelberg, sent Freisians, Shetlands,
miniature turnouts, saddle ponies and sepa-
rators ; and Mrs. Bartram has taken leading
roles in the riding events for several years
past. Last year she had the champion Arab
of Australia. Gordou Lyon, whose home,
Banyule, is the nearest thing to a French
chateau around Melbourne, provided Jerseys.
Clarendon Eyre, a name attached to a long
dynasty of champion livestock, is a house-
hold word at the Show. It is the moniker
of J. V. M. Woods’s beautiful property at
Heidelberg. A. G. Read, the Heidelberg
fruiterer, is to be found in every equine ring
event. Then there is W. E. Clinton, who
owns a garage at Heidelberg, a Shetland farm
at Christmas Hills and a son who usually
provides the most spectacular turn not on the.
programme—this year it was the rescue ol
an eight-year-old. from the back of a bolting
horse in the presence of his Ex. and a packed
assembly, which roared approval. Add Miss
Bray, who has trotting yearlings, and Mr.
Linn, the local ranger, who specialises m
prize-winning hacks, one of which was this
year ridden by Helen Skipper, also of Heidel-
berg. Finally, t here is the famous Stubbs s
pony, Snub Pollard, which has been taught
to rear for the benefit of press photo-
graphers. He is 20 years of age, and for 17
of them no Show supplement has been com-
plete without him.
An innovation at the Show was the steer-
riding. The first animal that came ont
trotted round the ring as meekly as a curate
taking the buns round at a suburban tea
fight. The crowd was just deciding that
steer-riding was an over-rated jiastime when
the second beast appeared, and promptly flung
its rider and trampled on him. He was
still in hospital at time of writing. The
third creature was as game as they make ’em.
It bucked, reared, sunfislied and broadsided,
but the lad on its back, who hails from
Heidelberg, has a reputation in buckjumping
circles of being able to cling to anything with
hooves on it. He only got down when the
steward told him to, after which he showed
his opinion of the new sport by turning to
the animal and putting his thumb to his
nose. Then he stalked disdainfully out of
the arena.
The press photographei’s at the Show were
an interesting study. You saw thorn crouch-
ing at the hurdles with their batteries —five
to a hurdle sometimes—waiting for .a tumble.
At the water jump they were as thick as bees
and quarrelling for a place. The horses can
generally be trusted to baulk there and burl
their' rides into the swim. > One day the
photographers had waited patiently for hours
without success. Every hurdler went over
as neat and clean us possible. Then a very
big horse bolted, and, turning too sharply,
fell on its rider, a very small boy. But it
happened between the jumps, and the dis-
gusted knights of the camera folded up their
paraphernalia and marched off the ground
murmuring “No luck again! ’ What
ghouls they are!” said a woman in the crowd
indignantly. She didn’t know what duty
means to a journalist.
Long John Dale, Melbourne’s civic health
oflicer, recently sought surcease from medi-
cal cares by taking a caravan trip over the
Black Spur with a company of artists. One
of them was Percy Lea son. Leason con-
tracted a poisoned arm, which called for the
most careful treatment. Another artist
caught the ’flu and a third got an eye infec-
tion. The holidaying medico spent his time
hurrying between the caravans with ther-
mometers and fomentations. Leason is now
in hospital learning to be ambidextrous with
the pencil.
The maiden of the contemplative glance,
pictured here by Spencer Shier, is.lvy Ball,
who has made a hobby of the formation of
string quartettes. Her third achievement m
this line is
the Melbourne
String * Quar-
tette, which
is making a
great name
for itself.
Miss Ivy first
piloted the
S i s ser man
Quart ette
through a
couple of suc-
cessful sea-
sons. ’Cellist
S i s s erman’s
departure for
Europe broke
up that com-
binat i o n,
Miss Ball,
who at the
time was sec-
retary of the
new ,Con., got
together another four, which is still going
strong. Then she gathered up the remain-
ing links of the Sisserman group, found a
competent ’cellist, and so kept the torch of
chamber music burning brightly. Having
registered players and listeners as a club, she
is able to give Sunday concerts, which take
place in the Tudor Lounge of the Victoria.
Miss Ball sometimes plays a violin in the
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra perform-
ances, but she has not aspired to member-
ship of any of the quartettes she has organ-
ised.
Ethel Forshaw, formerly a student of
the Uni. Con., has secured a footing in the
operatic world of London. She has appeared
in “Aida,” “II Trovatore” and other operas,
and has just been offered a two months’ con-
tract by Sir Oswald Stoll to sing leading
r6les in “Faust” and “Cavalleria Rusticana”
in London, Manchester and Bristol.
A feature of the Country Women’s Associ-
ation’s show at Kelvin Hall is a fine display
of woolly animal toys—elephants, giraffes,
donkeys with panniers, pink-and-white pigs,
snowy cats, teddy-bears, squirrels, a platy-
pus or two, and birds of various sorts.
Thirty branches of the C.W.A. are repre-
sented in the show, and there are over
600 entries. A marvellous patchwork quilt
of figured cotton materials set upon a cream
background, the co-operative effort of 30
women, gained a prize for the EurOa branch.
Workers at Macedon showed a quilt com-
posed of squares in green cross-stitch em-
broidery upon white linen. Streatham also
was represented by another community ex-
hibit, a baby’s cot, with equipped basket,
all in readiness for some little stranger.
Two other branches co-operated in fashion-
ing a woollen bedspread and a bush-nursing
outfit respectively. Mrs. Glendinning, of
Flinders, achieved a Chinese-looking rug—
goblin-blue dragons disporting themselves
upon a stone-colored background. There was
a brave array of knitting, glove-making and
plain and fancy stitcliery, and lashings of
cake, jam and home-made sweets. Flowers
ingeniously made of feathers, raffia, shells
and even fish scales evoked admiration, and
there were some elegant necklaces fashioned
of snakes’ backbones. The Creswell lady
launched the show, and was given a posy by
Mrs. Oswald Syme. Mrs. W. E. Sargood
deputised for the president of the C.W.A.,
the Mitchell lady.
After a year in Europe Mrs. J. H‘. Hewi-
son is doing a round of welcome-home billy-
boilings. Mrs. P. F. O’Collins, of Franks-
ton, staged her tea-party of greeting at the
Wentworth, where there was a very smartly
turned-out throng of women, the weather for
once in a way giving a promise of summer.
In its revival of “Florodora” the Firm has
selected six society girls, Cora Spowers, Bar-
bara Bryaras, Natalie Wood, Mary Guy
Smith, Elizabeth Staughton and Biddy
Tallis, to sing the famous sextette.
There will be a combination bridge and
garden party at Caulfield racecourse next
Tuesday afternoon to assist the funds of
the Alfred Hospital. The affair is to support
the candidature of Ben Chaftey in the hos-
pital’s king competition, and the V.A.T.C. has
put the tearooms and grounds at the dis-
posal of the committee. Kathleen Rogers
Thomson, Marjorie Butler and Miss G.
Curtis are sharing secretarial duties.
Jack Cato made this picture of Mrs. T.
Leslie Middleton, known on the concert stage
as Clarice
Malyon, who,
with her hus-
band, is on the
teaching staff
of the Uni.
Con. Mrs;
Middleton
gained a know-
ledge of opera
under the
tuition of
Marshall Hall
and Madame
Elise Wieder-
mann at the
Albert - street
Con., and won
prizes as a
singer at the
Ballarat con-
tests. Later
she had ex-
perience with
the Firm, and
followed this up by a sojourn in London. The
pageant of nations at the recent Interna-
tional Gala was directed by the Middletons.
South Australia trips in:—
Four Peter Dawson-Mark Hambourg concerts in
addition to other social happenings made a. very full
week. A large number of country visitors attended
the Amateur Turf Club’s meeting at Cheltenham
where the double tote (55.) provided a £134 dividend
for several lucky women. The Jack Morishs presided
at afternoon-tea, Mrs. Morish wearing a black and
white check frock with a black cloth coat and a
smart little hat of black shiny straw. Winter
clothes were still predominant.
The Town Hall was packed to overflowing for all
the Dawson-Hambourg concerts, and had the building
been available a fifth recital would have been
squeezed into their Adelaide season. His Ex. and
Lady Hore-Ruthven attended the opening concert.
Dr. and Mrs. A. E. V, Richardson gave a Sunday
at-home for Mr. and Mrs. Peter Dawson and Mr. and
Mrs. Mark Hambourg at Urrbrae. The hostess received
gowned in a burgundy-toned confection with a straw
era suite. Her daughter Yvonne wore an apple-green
cr6pe-de-Chine frock, with short coatee and a hat
to matnli, Mrs. Dawson chose a black satin ensemble
with cape effect and a black-ring velvet hat spotted
with white; Mrs. Hambourg wore black georgette
and a close-fitting black toque. The guests wandered
round the lovely garden before tea, and the whole
house was massed with flowers. University professors
and their wives, together with musical folk, pre-
dominated among the guests.
Mr. Arthur Hall, an eminent railway engineer
from India, is visiting Adelaide with his wife and
twin sons. They are the guests of Mr. and Mrs.
\V. F. 0. Grote, Robe-terrace, Medindie. On Wednes-
day "night their host and hostess gave a bridge
party at Llandovery in their honor.
The Mayoress organised a successful bridge party
in her reception-room at the Town Hall in aid of
the Institution for the Blind. On the following
afternoon Mrs. Glover entertained a number of friends
who have been associated with her on various
charitable committees. The floral decoration was
in apple blossom and sweet-peas; the hostess wore
a smart navy-blue ensemble with beige georgette
vest and a navy straw hat.
The Antique Loan Exhibition in the Anchor Build-
ing was opened by his Ex. So many articles had
been lent that three floors were occupied. Furniture,
glass, china, everything under the name of art was
represented, and the periods had been carefully
sorted out. The Kuitpo Colony should score Lorn
the proceeds. The charge on the opening occasion
was 55., with supper included.
WestraUa’s mail:—
Elocutionist Florence Dain gave an interesting
recital in the Assembly Hall. Her “Peer Gynt”
extracts held the audience enthralled, and Mrs.
Campbell’s rendering off-stage of one of Solveig’s
songs fitted smoothly into the unfolding of the tale
of Ibsen’s scallywag hero. Gregan McMahon’s
arrangement of “The Revolt” and a bit of “A
Window in Thrums” were other well-done numbers.
Mrs. E. O. Campbell lifted her sweet voice in groups
of well-chosen songs.
The Newman Ball, run by the Newman Society
in aid of Caxtledare, the undenominational home On
the Canning for sub-normal boys, was held in Temple
Court. The Uni. Chancellor and his lady, the Kirwan
knight, Mr. Norbert Keenan and Mr. President
Dwyer were among the big lights who lent their
patronage. Mrs. Dwyer wore a black lace gown;
Joan McKenna, sec. of the Newman Society, was
busy in figured chiffons; Dorothy McCarthy’s long
plaits hung upon sky-blue taffetas; Cecilia Brennan’s
flush-pink chiffons included a little coatee and
undulating frills upon the skirt; Mrs. Leo O’Connor
chose biscuit-shaded laces; net insertions ornamented
Alice Walsh’s primrose organdie; Nell Connaughton
favored patterned georgettes; Sheila MeClemans wore
carnation-pink taffetas; Eleanor Holland was in shell-
pink ; rhinestones glittered upon Mrs. Horan’s black
gown; Ellen Mulcahy wore cherry-red slippers with
her parchment chiffons; Elsie Paxton’s ivory moire
was topped with a little black velvet coatee; Mollie
Dunphy was a youthful maid in lemon-tinted moire.
A cheque for £2OOO-odd was handed to a beaming
Rabbi Freedman, president of the Victoria Institute
of . the Blind, which has felt the pinch of bad times.
The cheque was a result of the first lottery conducted
by the Art Union Control Committee. The orphan-
ages and the Maimed and Limbless Soldiers’ Associ-
ation will benefit by the next effort.
Mrs. W. T. Hodge poured tea in the Karrakatta
Club in honor of Mrs. Buntine, wife of Hale School’s
new head. Mrs. Buntine wore grey and white
flecked tweeds, and the hostess favored black for
her hat and gown.
The Gunners’ Ball of last week was the first shivoo
held in the Swan Barracks, Francis-street, since
pre-war years. The orchestra did its job in a dug-
out of sandbags, and “rations” were handed round
in lieu of supper. Brigadier-General Bessell-Browne
brought his wife and daughter. Black and rose-
pink georgettes were worn by Mrs. Margolin, who
accompanied her Colonel; Mrs. Wieck wore black,
and her daughter blue-flowered moire; Mrs. Hall
was in deep lilac chiffons; citron-shaded ninon clad
Mrs. Boyes; white camellias bloomed upon Gwen
Tebbutt’s black frock; Nancy Le Souef fluttered
shell-pink and Jean Hemy black laces.
The Speck lifts up its voice:—
At Launceston Grammar School ball, engineered by
Mrs. F. R. Adams and a strong committee, with
Kate Richardson as hon. sec., the youngsters held
the floor for the first part of the evening, and the
grand march and old-fashioned dances done by the
small fry made a pretty show. There were fancy sets
galore, some of them beautifully arranged.
Cygnet bestirred itself and ran a highly successful
ball in aid of the consumptive sanatorium, several
carloads of folk going down for the occasion. The
official party comprised knight John Evans, the
Attorney-Gen. and Mrs. Baker, Mr. and Mrs. George
Evans, Mrs. Tom Murdoch, Mrs. Eric Jeffries and
Mary Caulfield.
Gales and generally awful weather made it hard
going in the finals of the women’s golf championship
at King Meadows, Launceston. In the final Miss
Perry beat Mrs. Doolan.
In spite of appalling weather the daffodil show at
the City Hall was a thing of beauty, spring flowers
making a riot of gorgeous color.
Bishop Hay laid the foundation-stone of the new
wing of the Collegiate School, which is rising on the
site of old Tremayne, one of Hobart’s historic
buildings. Sister Phyllis, founder of the school,
came across the strait for the occasion.
Mrs. Ross Reynolds had to raid her reserves of
spare teacups for the guests invited to say good-bye
to her daughter, Mrs. J. Wordsworth, who, with her
little son, has returned to India to rejoin her hus-
band. The rooms were decorated with Japanese
peach and other pink blooms. Daughter Betty gave
her mother a helping hand with the guests.
The L. D. Dixons have left Hobart for Adelaide,
where Mr. Dixon has been appointed to the Conn
monwealth Bank. The N. E. B. Knights will reign
in their stead.


I knew
it
by
its delicate aroma
Makes me hungry, that tell-tale aroma. Tells of
freshness and wholesomeness and delicate
spices. Gives me a vision of meat of perfect
quality-fine texture and perfect colour and
round it the clear firm jelly. Recalls a delicious
flavour 1 like. Yes. I know it is REX-PYE and
I know that it is the finest meat in the world.
In 8 oz., 12 os., and
16 oz. hygienic cans
at all grocers and
sm allgoodsmen .
lIVII I
< v-
Foggitt JoilCS Pty. Limited —Curers of the choice KEX Hams and Bacon


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
.(.the death ot “W. E. Carew” (Mr. W. E. Gavew
■Pos-:) was- reported ‘from '-Perthflatetin. this
year.]
One dry, thirsty midsummer day, when
Ned Kelly w r as abroad in the land, a soft,
sad-looking man, fat, fair and 40, piloted a
hawker’s van drawn by a badly-balanced,
pedal-motion, yellow horse along a bush track
between Bealiba and St. Arnaud (Vic.). This
man peddled cheap bonnets and gimcrack
drapery and fine-glass jewels to the female
element spread far and wide over that aching
void where a solemn silence ever hangs and
the bustle and the fashionable hat have failed
to penetrate. In the midst of his medita-
tions the fat, fair man was suddenly inter-
rupted and his portable emporium brought
up short by the appearance of a long, ill-
nurtured, ragged-headed child of the wilder-
ness in too much clothes, consisting of pants
that hung down a long way behind and a
misfit hat and a coat that lapped over. This
apparition rose up in awful majesty before
the caravan, and, presenting an old, worm-
eaten, antiquated horse-pistol, tried to look
terrible in its wrath, and called upon the
hawker in a small, cracked voice to throw
up his arms. The fat man gazed at the
bandit for some moments in stupid bewil-
derment ; then he mechanically obeyed orders
and scrambled down from the vehicle, and
sat in the grass with his hands up in a silly
fit of aggravated amazement, whilst the
armed scarecrow went through his stock.
The highway-robber soon made his selec-
tions and was preparing to depart, when the
waylaid individual remembered himself and
arose to the occasion fortified with a pocket
six-shooter. “Here, you! Come back with
that merchandise,” he calmly remarked, pre-
senting his instrument. This treatment,
though mild, was effective—it brought the
desperado down with a flop and caused that
public nuisance to cry dismally and shiver
and shriek and howl for the police. When
the hawker opened up the plunder he found
it to consist of one straw poke-hat, two yards
of yellow ribbon, a large artificial flower, and
a breast-pin with water on the brain —
about eighteenpence worth in all. The
itinerant softgoods merchant was on the
point of administering summary justice with
a trace-belt, when he discovered that the
brigand was a girl in disguise; then he took
the highwaywoman by the ear, and led her
across country to her mother in the distance,
and insisted on that long, strong female
executing the sentence of the court, whilst
he sat in the next room, and listened to the
bushranger being banged with a paling, and
enjoyed her wild cries and her ignominy.
Thus simply was a desperate uprising crushed
at its inception, and an organised outrage
trodden on by a soft, sad man, who was fat,
fair and 40. [l3/4/’B9.]
What is done can’t be underdone.
A venerable stump has been discovered
at Sweer’s Island, Gulf of Carpentaria, and
engraved upon it are the initials of the
explorer Tasman, and the date 1781. Fol-
lowing this comes the date 1798, when some
other old-time navigator struck the spot and
forgot to leave his card. And third in order
are a quantity of Chinese hieroglyphics, like
a flatiron under the influence of chloroform,
while the rotting remains of a junk close at
hand help to explain how the Mongol got
there, and how he didn’t get away again.
Probably the hieroglyphics are the printed
wail of a lone lorn Chow exiled for ever
from his native land, but the bark has partly
overgrown the expression of his woe, and it
has become illegible. Then in succession
come the dates: 1802, with “Investigator”;
1841, the name of the captain of the Beagle;
1856. the name of the commander of the
Sandfly; and last, 1861, “Norman,” the
name of the skipper of the Victoria, from
whom Norman River is named. This inter-
esting relic will be placed in the Brisbane
Museum, and along with it the stump of
the old junk’s mast will find a resting-place
—twin volumes of the unwritten history of
old 5 Australia. [ 19/l/’B9. ]
A person living in the vicinity of Bathurst
(N.S.W.) writes to complain that Govern-
ment officials up that way are too particular,
and too much addicted to filling in large
printed forms which shatter the intellect.
A small local difficulty concerning two old
men who. lived in adjoining tenements has
lately strained the resources of the district
authority to the bursting point, and yet all
this waste, of perspiration and stamps has
left the two rowdy Methuselahs in the same
offensive attitude which they occupied before
the trouble began. The oldest baggy patriarch
started the worry by accusing the other
cripple of having a dirty back yard, and-the
second cripple said that he was another.
Then the first offender invited the inspector
of nuisances to contemplate the premises
next door, and the inspector replied that he
couldn’t legally do it until a paper the size
of a roof had been filled in and signed in
the presence of two sane witnesses of
ordinary intelligence who were not asleep
at. the time of signing. The other ruin, hear-
ing of this, called and informed the inspector
that if he attempted to interfere with the
back yard a dog would be on him. The reply
was that the ruin would have to fill in a
printed return setting forth the age, size,
parentage and average ferocity of the dog, and,
if possible, to furnish diagrams of the animal
and particulars of his method of feeding.
When he had finished this literary labor he
returned home, to find that the adjacent enemy
had dropped a decayed goat into his water-
butt during his temporary absence, and after
foaming wildly for some time over this insult
he called in the rural policeman and asked him
to set the law in motion. But the stolid
constable only told him to fill in a printed
form and swear an affidavit stating in detail
how he supposed the goat to have arrived
there and how long it had been dead, also
supplying particulars about its smell and the
color of its fur. Until this was done the
Law positively declined to move in the
matter In a frenzy of rage the citizen rushed
into town, and, seizing hold of the magis-
trate, demanded to know how he should pro-
ceed in order to force a constable to arrest
a man who put dead goats in his water-
butt. The impassive beak replied that
he really didn’t know', but perhaps the safest
thing he could do was to fill in a printed
form. [2O/4/’S9.]
FAINTING RANGE.
A long, low ridge that rises on the flooded
southern side—
A smoothly-running ridge, it seems to reach
the Great Divide;
The stunted timber tells you that the track
is clear and sound,
You can hear your footsteps ring upon the
hard, metallic ground.
The deep, dark gullies down below are lost
amid the trees
That tower up above the scrub and sway
with every breeze,
And he who knows the terrors of this track-
less sea of green
Will stop to rest and, lingering, gaze upon
the hopeless scene.
And as he journeys slowly on and climbs the
friendly rise
The dense, dark, waving field below will
float before his eyes,
And the gloomy picture holds him; wrapped
in reverie profound
Some mystic flowing current seems to lift
him o’er the ground.
It is then the voice should hasten that would
speak the warning word,
It is then the silence trembles lest the
sleeper be not stirred,
And the throbbing wakes the dreamer, and
he starts to note the change,
And stopping, stares bewildered down the
top of Fainting Range.
There are men, they say, who faltered, but,
too proud to wander back,
Vnflincliing faced the falling ridge and
struck the rising track —
Rising, flattening, falling, sinking, till they
knew not where to stir,
And then they dashed in madness down a
never-rising spur.
There are men amongst the travellers from
the open, boundless plain,
Where the stars at night will lead you o’er
a land that thirsts for rain,
They say the giant ranges ever mocked them
in their dreams,
And the hot wind onward sweeping urged
them to the running streams.
There arc men too -weak to travel, who in
restless, fevered haste
Cured only that they left behind the dreary,
level waste —
They had no “eye for country,” and they
never knew the rise
In endless, broken, waving line stretched to
the distant skies.
THE MAYOR’S BALL.
"Why, Bob, what’s the use of YOU going? You can’t dance.”
“No, but I can eat, can’t I?” [Phil May. —30/7/ 87.]
It is these and many .others who have gone
their weary way,
And tempted by the treach’rous ridge their
toilsome task essay.
Stout-hearted ! even through the < night their
lonely way have pushed
Till hope has died within them and’ the
bravest souls are “bushed.”
They are ever moving past us —those who
only know defeat,
You wiil see them in the city, pass them in
the crowded street; j 1
You will see in fitful- moments, marked in
memory’s mournful trace,
The long, heart-breaking stages painted on
the pallid face.
And should you meet a traveller who would
reach the Great Divide,
lii pity strive to stay him till he scan the
steep, straight side;
It may be that you know no track, and all
still lingers strange,
But lift your voice in warning, ye who’ve
tried by Fainting Range!
W. E. CAREW.
AN IDYLL OF NURRA MURRA.
The name of the eldest son of the parson
was Benjamin. Fate’s irony had named him
so. He' was the eldest, and was always
helped last —and least. So he was a pessi-
mist. He was 12 years old.
Every year the parson’s salary grew
smaller. Five years back such a thing would
have seemed impossible to the parson s wife.
“It couldn’t get smaller,” she would have
said. But it did. And now she asked her
husband, “Which will you have, jam or
butter?” And the parson’s children were
not even aslced whether they would ha.ve
anything but dripping.
“It will be ‘Which will you have, tea or
sugar?’ next,” said Benjamin bitterly as he
chased the hungry cow out of the front garden
into the back paddock. Then he noticed that
the calf was frisking on the verandah, chew-
ing and licking away at some white matter.
“Shoo!” he cried. But when he found that
it was the fat black book of hymns, ancient
and modern, that it was making hay of, he
stayed his voice and stood dumbly still and
watched. After it had torn out all the leaves
and licked them, and tossed them all over
the verandah, and chewed the cover to a
mass of pulp, Benjamin smiled less bitterly
and went away. They always sang out of
that book at family prayers.
Benjamin was not a bad boy. lie was
only a hungry one. The world’s well-fed
will confound the two. So the world’s ill-
fed are beginning to make the same mistake
about the well-fed.
His one delight was to pick up the tin-
tags of tobacco that smokers dropped in
High-street and imagine they were three-
pences. He would go with them and stand
before the windows of Bellamy,
the baker. “Now, what’ll I
buy?” he would say. “Two tarts
and a bun? Or a cake of hokey-
pokey, a penn’orth of ginger-
biscuits and a cheese-cake?"
That seemed a good investment.
He imagined these in his mouth.
But the tin tag was only a tin
tag, after all. Three minutes was
the length of the dream.
One morning the parson cam-
down to breakfast with a long
face, and Benjamin noticed a
strange woman going familiarly
about the house.
“There’s a new little brother
for you upstairs, children,’’ said
the parson. “He came in the
night.” He tried to look glad.
Four of the children wore
smitten dumb with delight. Two
ecstatically said, “Oh, Daddy!’’
and one laughed aloud with joy.
But Benjamin stood up in his
place and burst into wild crying.
“When it gets a helping then
won’t be anything left, for mi'
to eat,” he cried, and rushed away from the
room.
Out in the paddocks there ran a little
brown creek with bullfrogs and tadpoles and
many strange delights in it. Benjamin ran
on till he found himself looking down into
its depths.
“What’s the good of living?” he Cried. I
wish I was dead. If I jumped in ’ere, then
they’d be sorry. I just will. I’ve a good
mind to.”
The cow roamed past him and switched
him with its tail. “Oh,” he said, and gave
a great start. “I was nearly in that time.”
Then ho hurried away as quickly as he had
come.
The public school was at the far end of
Nurra Murra, half ,a mile from the parson-
age. Benjamin was walking fiercely school-
wards with red eyes and a hungry feeling
within him, when he noticed a fat man pass-
ing him on the other side of the road.
“Now, he’s had a good breakfast,” said
Benjamin enviously. “I know he stuffs. I
know he’s never hungry.” .He tried to
imagine what he might have had for break-
fast. “Tarts, apples, bread and jam and
cream, fried kidneys and cocoa.” Really
there was nothing that man might not have
had. Oh, the world was a hard place!
Suddenly Benjamin was filled with unrea-
soning anger. He looked and scowled. Then
he called loudly, “Oh, you fat pig!”
Next day Benjamin saw the fat man again.
Whether he fancied it or not, he certainly
thought the man looked. bigger.
“Oh, the stuffing he’s been having!” he
said. He kicked his copper-toes angrily
against the posts of the baker’s shop, and
made such a noise that the fat man noticed
him.
“You greedy gormandiser!” said Benja-
min. But the fat man didn’t hear.
After that, the two used to pass each other
every morning in High-street. And every
morning Benjamin laid a new epithet for
the other. Some of the epithets were not at
all nice ones. But, then, you see, they came
from a boy who had had bread and dripping
for breakfast, and would have bread and
dripping again for tea.
One morning it was “You gorging guzzler,”
and one morning it was “You greedy hippo-
potamus,” and one morning the words his
father had read at prayers were in his head,
and it was “You stalled ox!”
One morning the fat man was not there.
Benjamin had grown so used to seeing him
that he wondered. He even propounded
theories. The most feasible one was that
someone had had a birthday, and had asked the
fat man to it, and to-day was the day after.
It was about three nights afterwards that
he heard his father talking to his mother
in the study.
“Most pitiful!” said the parson.
“Ah', the' poor fellow!” said his wife.
There wex-e tears in her voice.
“He has eaten nothing for two days,” said
the parson. “He has simply starved to
death. He is dying now, and I must go
to him.”
“Take Benjamin with you,” said the
mother. “The lantern’s broken, and he’ll be
company for you. He can stay outside.”
So Benjamin was called, and was soon
walking away through Nurra Murra with
his hand in his father’s. They went right
through the township, past the church, the
bank, the stores, the public school till they
came to a cottage standing alone in a pad-
dock.
“Stay here,” said the parson, “and wait
for me. I won’t be very long.”
Benjamin sat down on the edge of the
verandah and looked up into the sky. What
a lot of stars there were! There was the
Southern Cross. There were two dogs.
There were the five sisters. What a lot
of milk the milkmaid had dropped to-night.
Let’s see, where was the giant? Ah, there
he was. I wonder was he as big as the fat
man? The fat man—why, he hadnmet
him for three days now. The very thought
made him hungry. He jumped up and went
towards the door of the cottage.
He had been told to wait, and he had
waited. He thought he would just look in
and try to catch his father’s eye, and remind
him that he, Benjamin, had been waiting
for a long time. . „
He opened the door and went m. ■tie
went down the narrow hall; there was a
light in a room to the left. He crept soltly
towards it. The door was just ajar. Ht
pushed it gently. He saw three people m
the room. One was his father, one was
the doctor’s sister, and one lay silent on
the bed. And even as Benjamin looked in
the doctor’s sister stooped and closed the
eyes of the silent figure.
NEMESIS.
She: “You’ve had your fingers in the jam
again.”.
“It”: “Not me, I took a spoon.”
[By G. R. Ashton. —11/10/ 90.]
“He is dead,” she said.
“Why, it’s the fat man!” cried a little
voice. “Is he dead? Is he really dead?”
He came right in before they could stop
him.
“Oh, Daddy,”- he said. “What’s the matter
with him? What did he die of?”
“He starved,” said the parson. “He-has
been starving for days, and nobody knew
it. Come away, come away.”
Out in the night, with the red dust under-
foot and the milkmaid overhead, Benjamin
cried pitifully.
“I called him a greedy gormandiser, ’ he
said. “I didn’t know. What made him so
fat? How did I know?”
“That was the dropsy,” said the parson
sadly. ~ _ .
“But how was Ito know? said Benjamin.
“Nobody told me.”
LOUISE M. MACK.


i/s
10
w
A
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVEfIY BOTTM
BOTTLED ACUARANTEEO
PURE DV THE TRENCH
GOVERN M ENT
ETAT MEANS
"STATE viz
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
The Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen-
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters.is
importance to
che Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME Or THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
IShe following italement defies contradiction t
Many Mineral Waters may be ottered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
i complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY W ATE It
Gxamine the facsimile opposite and refuse substituted,
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS:
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty~.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Wavmouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM 1 9 WOMEMI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
> SOCIAL. NOTES-ALL STATES.'
LAOVS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
•> Etc. Etc. Etc.
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 6S
jjir 'll! I"!!!'! >" 1 ' ■ ">!!h i tf. ‘‘“‘•ill
iiiij m
' - a
k. i
\
::4:jar.t:h
/
ljfe>£
Ksse
K • cr * .-. := i
O' to i
» i •
S» , 1
k+J
ill
iiiin
iiii! ::::!:!
u!!i!S
ihiM
Valet halves shav-
ing time. Stropped and
cleaned in twelve seconds.
Keeps itself sharp. Nothing to un-
screw. Nothing to take apart. Smoother,
easier shaves with every Valet blade. You
need more sleep —use a Valet! Sets from
4 6 lo 67/6 each. You never need remove
a blade except to change it —once in about
sixty perfect shaves ! OF ALL HIGH-
CLASS DEALERS.
VALET
Auto Strop
Safety Razor
BRITISH MADE
Asenls for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED, 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
The Name.
HAROLD MERGER TELLS A FASCINATING STORY OF FAMILY PRIDE
AND THE 'LOO.
Robert john fennessey—it’s
as good a name as the ’Loo has known.
It was the name of a man everybody
was proud to meet, and. call a friend.”
The old woman in the shop spoke proudly
and with spirit. It was a name that I had
been looking for, without clearly remember-
ing the Robert ,T. As I remembered
him Fennessey had been a carrier; and I
wanted a carrier. I had long left the ’Loo,
and the house which used to sport the
carrier’s sign had disappeared, replaced by a>
small factory building:
Naturally, it had been a lot to expect to
find Fennessey at the old address after twelve
years in a land of change. I resolved to
get a city firm to do the job I wanted done;
and then, as with that resolution I moved
away, the sign above the little corner shop,
intimating to all the world that Mrs. Robert
John Fennessey was a registered milk
vendor, struck my eye. It was queer to see
a sign like that —“Mary Fennessey” would
have been more usual; and it was with the
hope of still finding my carrier that I
entered.
The war, it appeared, had taken Fennes-
sey in its last years, and he had not come
back. That is what the bright-faced old
lady inside the little shop, with its rutted
old counter and strangely-assorted shelves,
told me. I was sorry.
“It was his father established the business
about the time I married him,” the old
lady said confidentially, accepting me as a
sort of family friend on account of my know-
ledge of the dead soldier. “For forty-five
years the name of Fennessey has been re-
spected in the ’Loo, but there was no one to
carry on the carrying business when my son
went. My grandson is going for a doctor.
He won his scholarships, and he has a war
bursary, on account of his father.”
The old lady glanced affectionately towards
the open door of the little sitting-room
behind the shop, where I saw a tall, agree-
able-looking young man sorting books on
the table.
lien I took this shop I put the name
over the door: ‘Robert John Fennessey.’ ”
It was pleasant to contemplate the old
lady’s pride, the affection with which the
name that had been her husband’s lingered
on her tongue as if she were caressing every
syllable of it; pleasant, also, to think of
the strong tree _of this house growing in
the mostly sordid ’Loo, the representative
of new generations “going for a doctor.”
It was a matter interesting enough to
mention to Evans, a solicitor friend, as we'
were having a drink together.
“Robert Fennessey?” he cogitated, and
then, suddenly; "By Jove! I’m glad you
spoke about that! There’s a Robert Fen-
nessey concerned in an estate we have looked
after: it affects a bit of Woolloomooloo
property, too. We couldn’t find him or some-
thing-—I can’t recall the details, but I know
that there is some sort of a hold-up over the
property. You might give me the address
of the shop.”
That gave momentarily a fillip to my
interest; but the whole incident was for-
gotten until one day I met Evans nosing
about the ’Loo.
Tm looking for that shop you mentioned
to me, he said. “I want to speak to this
Mrs. Fennessey.”
• 3^' 6 (i^ ass . as we w£, lk along here,” I
s. aic ‘- Is it a fact, as you thought, that
the old woman is interested in some prop-
erty?”
“Yes,” he said shortly; and he added
after a time: “It’s a queer thing—-she
doesn t seem to want it. The property is part
of the Giles estate, left by old Alexander
Giles to the old woman and her son. It’s
accumulated in value a great deal; but for
some reason this Mrs. Fennessey refused to
have anything to do with the devise. There
was some correspondence, and then the
matter seems to have finished. The position
is that the whole business is tied up; we
can t do anything with the property except
collect the rents and keep the two houses
in repair.
Somehow—it may have been curiosity on
my part but I think it was by Evans’s
wish—l found myself in the little shop
again, introducing the solicitor. It had
seemed to me that I must be a bearer of
good news; but the smile that seemed habit-
ual to the face of the old lady froze when
e solicitor’s name was mentioned.
"I wrote _to you,” she said. “I don’t
ant anything to do with the property.”
"Is there some place where we can discuss
c matter?” asked Evans.
She hesitated, and then motioned us
wards the sitting-room at the back. The
easant young man was there, pleasanter
a closer view, stalwart, wholesome and
mdsome; and with him was a young
■man whose appearance showed an afflu-
ee contrasting rather considerably with the
iinble if comfortable surroundings.
"It’s a little matter of business I’ve got
discuss, dears,” the old woman said.
"We’ll have to be getting along, anyhow,
an have that appointment, May, haven’t
'ii?" said the young man.
The girl came forward and kissed the old
dy.
“Oh. Mrs. Fennessey,” she cried, “I am so
ad Bob brought me along to see you. It
akes us friends, doesn’t it?—and I do so
ant to be friends with Bob’s grandmother!”
'Bob’s a fine boy.” said the old lady, “and
bears an honorable name —the name that
as his grandfather’s. There’s none better.”
It seemed to me that there was a defiant
ok at Evans as lie stepped across to the
rl.
“I know this young lady,” he said, “or I
; ed to. Miss Waters, isn't it?”
She gave a laughing recognition.
"Well, you two have to run away, haven’t
m?” said Mrs. Fennessey. “You will see
e again, Miss Waters?”
“Won’t you call me May, Grandma? I’m
ing to call you what Bob does.”
The young people went out boisterously.
"Miss Waters is the daughter of a nephew
Alexander Giles ; her grandmother was his
sister,” remarked Evans, probably for my
information.
“Mr. Evans,” said Mrs. Fennessey sharply,
‘this property is nothing to me.”
“Isn’t it a pity to view it in that light?
It is worth a good deal of money,” Evans
added.
“Money’s not everything,” she retorted
sharply. “I don’t want it.”
“There’s the boy to be considered,” said
Evans. “He’s going to be a doctor? A
doctor needs some money to establish him-
self in a practice.”
“I can see to that,” said the little old
woman defiantly: and to back her statement
she snapped open a drawer and waved a
pass-book for a moment in the air.
“He may want to marry a rich girl. Miss
Waters, let ns say; she’s wealthy. He’d be
in a better position with some money,”
Evans urged.
“It is good fenough for anyone to marry a
Fennessey,” she said almost fiercely.
“We have no interest in the matter except
to get it settled,” said Evans. “We’re held
up over the disposition of this property. If
we can get a document renouncing the gift
it will enable us to go ahead; the property
can be sold and the money will go to other
beneficiaries.”
“Aren’t my letters enough?” said Mrs.
Fennessey.
“The young man has to be considered,”
said Evans suavely. “His prospects are
concerned. You were given only a life inter-
est, Mrs. Fennessey; the property after-
wards was to go to your son, and the right
now belongs to his son. We need to have
his renunciation, too.”
“But why any renunciation?” I suggested.
“It should not be very difficult to accept
property.”
“There is a condition; that is Mrs.
Fennessey’s objection,” said Evans quickly.
“But your grandson will have to be told of
his rights. The estate must be settled, Mrs.
Fennessey. Your repudiation can only apply
to your life interest. We will be com-
pelled to tell young Mr. Fennessey, madam.”
“He will renounce it, too,” she retorted
with some agitation.
There was a little gust of shy laughter
in the shop; for some reason the young
people had returned.
“You are afraid of asking him,” chal-
lenged Evans.
There was a strange look in the humble
little woman as she drew herself up. She
just breathed “I’m not,” and then stepped
towards the door and called “Bob.”
“And yon, too, May; you come. I've got
something to say to Bob, and it concerns a
family skeleton ; it’s just as well for you to
know about it, too.”
The old lady was excited, and yet grimly
set in a purpose. She hardly noticed how
May stole over to her and put her hand
shyly in hers.
“I’ll have to explain it all, right from the
start,” said Mrs. Fennessey. “I was quite
a young girl when I came down from the
Ilawkesbury to service. My people were
well-to-do in their way; my father owned a |
prosperous farm, but there were a great
many of us. I went to the big house of the
Gileses, and there was a coachman there —
Robert Fennessey.
“I was only a young, flighty girl; but
everybody liked Bob. He was handsome and
upstanding; even the fashionable young
ladies smiled at him. It flattered me that he
should prefer me to everybody; but I had
no intention of marrying for a long time,
and I didn’t know that I would marry him,
even then.
“And then young Mr. Alexander Giles
came back from England, where he had been
finishing his education. He was the latest
thing in London styles, and had side-whis-
kers that sent the women of Svdney raving.
The very first night lie caught me on the
verandah, whirled me into the shadows, and
kissed me, before I knew what was happen-
ing.
“I had been brought up well, and I slapped
his face,” proceeded Mrs. Fennessey, oblivious
of a certain humor in the remark; “but per-
haps I was flattered as much as angry. I
avoided him ; but then, treating me as if I
was a lady, he became so nice to me after-
wards that I forgot to be frightened of him.
He spoke to me at times as if some day
we might be married; and I was only too
glad to believe him.
“Because Robert became morose, always
stormily demanding that I should marry
him, Alexander seemed all the nicer to me.
One night Robert came upon us down by the
beach to which the grounds sloped, just when
Alexander had caught me in his arms and
was telling me how some day he would take
me as his wife over the seas to see the
glories of England. With a roar of anger
Robert dashed up and, as Alexander released
me from his arms, struck him full in the
mouth. Then they fought, Robert wild in
his fury, until Alexander fell to the ground.
As he staggered to rise I rushed in between
them.
‘You thing!’ I cried to Robert. ‘How dare
you strike the man I love!’
“I said it to hurt him; and he looked at
me in a dazed fashion.
“ ‘lt’s because I love you. and want you
for my wife. That man has no intention
of marrying you,’ he said.
“That’s a lie.’ said Alexander. ‘We’re
to be married within a week.’
“Robert appeared to reel.
“ ‘lf that’s the truth,’ he said. ‘l’ve nothing
to say but that I’m sorry. Because I love
Mary, the best I want is her happiness.’
“He paused for a moment, and then blun-
dered away; and I helped Alexander back
towards the house, weeping for his poor
bruised face. It was those bruises that
made me love him more than I had ever
done before.
“ ‘Did you mean it.’ I whispered to him,
about our getting married?’
“ ‘Every word,’ he said, ‘but I will arrange
for a secret marriage, for my people cannot
know until I am able to break it to them.’
(Continued on next page.)


American Railway Travel
■. . convenient, comfortable 9 economical
wm.
m
m
m
* ,■
WW
Railway travel across the United States
is like a gigantic movie of magnificent
scenery. Great cities connected by broad
highways... trans-continental airplanes
soaring aloft. . . daring "cow boys”,
"riding range”...picturesque Indians...
deep mountain passes, and mighty
rivers!
Travel in restful comfort East, South
or North...leisurely or speedily...to suit
your preference.
On your holiday trip or on your way
to England, you’ll find "via America”
a most interesting, time saving and con-
venient route.
May we send you a free, illustrated book-
let? Or, if you prefer, consult our travel
expert, without charge or obligation.
RAILWAYS
TRAYEL and
nrroßMYiiow bcreaij
12 Bridge Street, Sydney Telephone B 7981 -3
R9-3A.
THE
Uj
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Capital PAID UP £5,000000
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
YY/HATEVER your walk in life—whether manufacturer
* * or pastoralist, shopkeeper or farmer, housewife or sales-
woman, lawyer or doctor, artisan or clerk—the facilities of
the National Bank are available to you.
It provides a complete banking service covering the financial
side of Primary and Secondary production, Land Settlement,
Trade and Commerce, Investments, Loans, Overseas business
in all its phases, and Tourist requirements.
This widespread service is available at 460 offices and
branches in Australia, and two branches in London —all of
which are closely linked up with the Bank’s agents the world
over.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
PRINCIPAL OFFICE: 342-346 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Albury
Barham
Bathurst St. (Syd.
Broken Hill
Casino
Chatswood
Corowa
Cronulla
Deepwater
Dubbo
Finley
George St. West
(Sydney)
Glen Innes •
Goulburn
Grafton
Granville
Hornsby
Hurstville
Kempsey
Lismore
Manly
Maroubra Junction
Mascot
Mayfield
Merriwagga
Moree
Mullumbimby
Mungindi
Murwillumbah
Narrandera
Newcastle
North George St.
(No. 253), Syd.
Oaklands
Orange
Parramatta
Royal Exchange
(60 Pitt Street,
Sydney)
Tamworth
Taree
Tenterfield
Toeumwal
Wagga Wagga
West Wyalong
Wentworth Av.
(Sydney)
Wollongong
York St. (Syd.)
“l was satisfied with anything he
arranged. He took me to Melbourne; but
after a time we returned, and he found me
a little house right out near Waverley. I
was proud with the thought of being Mrs.
Giles then, but so happy I hardly wanted
the time when I should be received in society,
although, it was nice to‘ dream about. Once
or twice old Mr. Giles came out to our house,
and I was glad because it seemed to me
that Alexander was breaking the news to
his people.
“I -met Robert on one occasion. He was
out of his smart uniform and driving a cart,
but he brought it to a standstill, and jumped
down to speak to me.
“‘You are married?’ he demanded.
“ ‘Yes.’
“‘And you are happy?’
“ ‘Yes,’ I said. ‘And you—why, what are
you doing now?’
“ ‘I have started a carrying business. This
lackeying for rich people is no job for a
man. But I’m glad to hear you are happy.
It’s the next best thing to having you my-
self.’
“ ‘My husband will be glad to hear you
are prospering,’ I said.
“‘Glad!’ he laughed harshly. ‘When he
had me charged with assault, and I could
not defend myself for fear of bringing you
into it, but had to go to gaol for it. Him
glad !’
“It shocked me to hear that that had
happened, and shook my faith in Alexander;
but when Robert found that I did not know
he begged me not to speak of it nor” even
to say that I had seen him, for fear of
making trouble for myself. There were
tears in his eyes as he shook hands, wishing
that my happiness would continue.
“I did not expect, to see him again. It
amazed me one day to see him approaching
our house, as I stood looking out from
behind the window curtains of my bedroom.
I went to my door, and heard him talk to
the maid.
“ ‘Mr. Giles, senior, is here?” he said.
“ ‘Yes, sir, You will be Mr. Fennessey?
I was to show you right in, to Mr. Giles.’
“I could not make it out, and curiosity
got the better of me after the door of
Alexander’s study had closed. The servant
had passed back to her quarters. I tiptoed
softly along the hallway, and, half-kneeling,
looked through the keyhole. I could see old
Mr. Giles sitting at a table, with his son
standing, nervous and pale, behind him, and
in front stood Robert, tensely upright and
startled.
“ ‘lt is no question of casting the lady
aside. My son is very fond of her, and I
had difficulty in persuading him to take
this step. But, to be plain, it is absolutely
■necessary for my son to make a rich mar-
riage. The lady" he is to marry is waiting,
but naturally this- —er —affair must end. My
son was fearful of the lady’s future; and
I recalled that you were fond of her, and
might be prepared to marry’
“ ‘But she is his wife!’ Robert burst in.
.‘He said he would marry her —she told me
she was married. She is known as Mrs.
Giles!’
“ ‘We like to do things nicely, of course,’
said Mr. Giles. ‘Put the idea that there is
marriage out of your head. The point is
that if you are prepared to marry the lady—
who, allow me to say, from my personal
experience, is a very fine and good woman in
every way—we are prepared to offer you
very substantial considerations —enough
money to make a smart young man like you
well-established in life.’
“ ‘Hold there!’ cried Robert 1 otly. ‘I love
Mary; I am sorry if this dirty thing has
been done to her. But I’ll take no mans
cast-offs, and your money’s an insult. If I
have been a coachman, the Fennesseys are
proud people. You can take your filthy offer
elsewhere.’
“My head had been reeling, my heart
bursting; I could not understand the posi-
tion, but, unable to endure any more of this
talk, I burst in upon them.
“ ‘Oh, Alexander, I am your wife!’ I
appealed to him ; but he only turned away,
and a feeling that some madness had fallen
upon me came as I saw him do it. I turned
frantically to Mr. Giles. ‘Oh, sir, I am his
wife; we were truly married !’
“ ‘You were married?’ queried Mr. Giles,
looking sideways at his son.
“ ‘On the boat going to Melbourne. An
officer came down to our cabin, and married
us according to the Scotch law!’ I sobbed.
“ ‘My God!’ cried Robert. H'is hands
were clenched, and. I thought he would leap
over the table at Alexander; but Mr. Giles
rose with hand extended to motion him back,
and turned scathingly to his son.
“‘A filthy trick, Alexander!’ he said. ‘By
God, I’m half inclined to say you’ll have to
marry her in very truth. But marrying a
penniless blackguard won’t do her any good
—and that’s what you’ll be if there’s no
money to help through this crisis. But it’s
a filthy trick—monstrous !’
“ ‘But, father, listen ! I thought’ Alex-
ander began.
“ ‘You thought! You knew the Scotch
custom had no legal force here!’
“Up to then I had been numbed for a
few moments, still striving to believe, des-
perately, that the marriage was lawful.
“‘Oh, Alexander!’ I cried desperately.
‘Then the child —the child when it is born
will have no father, unless’
“ ‘Then there is a child coming, too!’
exclaimed old Mr. Giles, and his look at his
son was withering.
“ ‘Unless’—— I stammered. I found it
impossible to speak the desperate hope—
that he might marry me, even now. and make
everything right; for the hope itself withered
in the helpless expression I saw on his fact.
“ ‘Haven’t you heard, Mary, how essential
this marriage is to me?’ he said lamely.
“ ‘By the Lord!’ cried Robert, coming for-
ward and putting his arms about me ; and
he looked the only man in the room who was
a true man as he stood there full of indig-
riant scorn. ‘The cur will deny his own
blood. Now I will marry the girl, and be
glad to give happiness to a good woman so
abominably tricked. She shall marry me,
now —to-day; and by God, this child of hers
shall be my child, and whoever breathes a
whisper that it is not, I’ll kill him.’
“ ‘We’ll make it all right about the money,’
said Mr. Giles nervously.
“Robert had moved me towards the door,
and although, only a short time before, I
had loved Alexander. I felt courage and
confidence, even something that might be
happiness—something that afterwards proved
happiness—in the arms which guided me ; but
as Mr. Giles spoke he released me and turned
so savagely that I held to him, frightened
of what be should do.
“‘Another word of money, and I shall do
to both of you what both of you deserve.
This that I am going to do is because of
love for Mary; because of love for Mary I
shall love her child, and it shall be mine.
But there shall be no stain of money against
it; neither now nor ever shall we take one
penny of it!’ And then he almost lifted
me in his arms and carried me out.”
The old lady paused dramatically; and
young Robert gasped.
“So Alexander Giles was really my father’s
father,” he said in a strained voice.
“Robert Fennessey was more than a father
to him,” said the old lady warmly. “He made
a good man of him; and Alexander Giles’s
son died an acknowledged blackguard, suicid-
ing to escape disgrace. Robert fulfilled his
promise; there was nothing mean or jealous
in his nature. He loved your father as if
he indeed had been his own son ; and then,
when Alexander Giles was lonely in his old
age, he left a will giving property to your
father, provided that he should take his
name! But it is the name of Robert John
Fennessey that is the good name. To my
sorrow we had no children that were, his ; but
in the making of good men. Robei-t was
his son and you are his grandson, Bob. He
was satisfied with that—died happy with
that; would I take any money to cheat the
spirit of a good man of his reward?”
There was something piteously appealing
in the old lady’s attitude -a cry against
some impending injustice to a fine memory.
Young Bob sprang upright.
“Grandma, you’re right,” he cried. “Money
we can make, but there are things it cannot
purchase. As far as I’m concerned, I’m
Robert John Fennessey.”
There was a strain in his attitude. His
hands were clenched, his mouth was drawn
into a determined line, and he looked straight
ahead. It was as if he was challenging May
Waters, fearful of what she might feel, with
his determination.
But he need not have been fearful, for
she was in a minute standing beside him, one
arm slipped through his, and her other hand
taking his hand.
“It is what I would expect of you, Bob,”
she said. “I think I prefer to be Mrs.
Fennessey.”
The One Theme.
Still and silent is the valley,
Still and silent flat and hill;
Still the oak-trees by the river,
But the river is not still;
Singing, singing, singing ever,
It is still and silent never.
Changing not for noon or midnight,
Even-tempered and subdued,
Faithful always to one measure,
Constant ever to one mood ;
Eight or darkness never minding.
With the one song it goes winding.
Here and there a windowed farmhouse
Throws white light upon its tide,
With folk laughing or folk grieving,
Or folk sunk in sleep inside ;
But as on it roams and ranges,
Ne’er a note the river changes.
Pallid starlight on its shallows,
Golden sunshine on its stream,
Still it lifts the selfsame measure,
Dwells upon the selfsame theme;
Calm contentment ever voicing,
Neither sobbing nor rejoicing.
Though dark silence holds the valley,
Flat and hillside, bush and tree,
Yet the river, voieeful ever,
Sings a song that seems to me
Careless all of age and fashion,
Void alike of pain and passion.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Old Mother Hall.
Old Mother Hall sells fish and crabs,
- is as poor as poor can be ;
her roof is of tin, the walls of slabs,
her floor is the sand by the sea.
Old Mother Hall with her heart of gold
is rich as her house is poor;
and many the world left bare and cold
found her a refuge sure.
Girl with the straw-born child, denied,
shunned by kith and kin;
boy they broke when he stepped aside —
gladly she takes them in,
Weaklings that wrecked the codes man-made
in the grip of feelings keen—
But she has comfort and counsel and aid
in the way of the mild Nazarene.
Humble and wise and poor and old:
she’s as rich as rich can be.
Old Mother Hall! Her heart is gold,
and Christ in her hut I see.
The higher gods of the little town —there
I could never see.
QUEENSLAND.
FREEMAN SANDOM.


5:«"
w-
Distributors for the
House of McCallum;
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Adelaide.
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle.
Macfarlane Bros. & Co.,
Hobart.
Bartlams, Ltd.,
Townsviile.
Northern Australian Breweries,
Ltd.,
Cairns.
There’s life in the
mellowness of
McCallum’s....
ask for it! ’
(DTallurn's
Scots (Ghiskv
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 13/6; 3 months, 8/-
o»,
0°
<2.1 V
„ s e ? <& e
<&* e ,
1 a ■" * * .'••
•*'
><y*r
• * < e^ C V>-
*V V v '-


SI!
..
■t:
m
'•it*
mm
■
■ ■
m
*
W
m
SUCK
m
* *
■ .
m
b u>mm
r By %<>mlmenk
* » mnc&
p HOBUCS OF SCOTLANO
scotch whisky
j
"buck & WHITE'
*•«>** f**»« ****«
BLACK
AND
iw«rt»rw»ft
!#P!
Scotch whisky oismteJS
- GLASGOW 4 tOHOOH
WHITE
o*>
e mm
COHrmrs i pint
m
Down go the cards and
dummy sits back content-
edly to sip his Black &
White. It’s real old Scotch
. . . a whisky as satisfying
as his w hand.”
SCOTCH
WHISKY
