

\ \
1
\ \\‘,
m
auw
7/
t . ,\ \\A*r
mm
u
V
a
E5* M
5
1
r
l/f
wtiufflMifm
mat tat
i?
-
.
P
f
/ - ,
X/k
* / /
'in
• 'll
//
/:/
AN EXPRESSION
OF FAITH
in Australia's Future
BRYANT & MAY’S
MATCH WORKS, VICTORIA.
FACTORY OF THE
FEDERAL MATCH COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
HIM
coMaa
FACTORY OF THE
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN MATCH COMPANY, LIMITED,
PERTH, W.A.
'THROUGHOUT the history of its operations in Australia, the
organisation of Bryant & May has demonstrated in the most
practical manner its unshakable faith in the nation’s ultimate greatness
and prosperity.
In Victoria it has built the wonder factory of the Commonwealth,
employing nearly 700 workers under conditions unexcelled for health,
safety and comfort in any part of the world.
In Sydney an associated factory, operating under similar conditions,
has recently been doubled in size.
And now, as a final gesture of confidence during a time of unusual
stress and depression, a new associate factory is actually being erected
in Perth, W.A.
With this new factory in operation, the Australian match industry
will provide steady emloyment for over one thousand men and women,
besides indirectly affording increased employment for many thousands
more supplying raw materials, transport, etc.
For example, these factories every year use over a million super feet
of Australian hoop-pine logs, 500 tons of Australian stearine, 1100
tons of Australian board and paper, 150 tons of Australian glue, and
now 50 tons of Queensland cotton. Other smaller items are too
numerous to mention, but they all employ Australian labor.
BRYANT&MAY'S
M ATC H WORKS
The Bulletin
[ft DeacJvQx? *— fi &
Vol. 52.—N0. 2688.
Wednesday, August 19, 1931.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


/"'VUE. New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
KNOWN FOR ITS REMARKABLE EFFICACY IN.ALI
AFFECTIONS OFTHETHROAT CHEST AND LUNGS
Hudson's
JHjwbeS
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes carry the
endorsement of the medical profession,
and the confidence of the public through-
out the world. For over 40 years there has
been nothing better for all affections of the
throat, chest and lungs.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
d
Jr Soap and
Ointment
Protect You Against
Skin Troubles
Use the Soap every day, it
is antiseptic and healing, as
well as cleansing. An oc-
casional application of
Cratierara Ointment
assists in keeping the skin
clear and healthy.
Soap la. Ointment 1 s. and 2a. Talcum la. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns&Co.,Sydney,N.S.W*
ffitiw
51il;
fiiticiira
HJ OINTMENT
MEDICINAL
fc. jtC \*mnfGrJ
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copes
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in . the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read v it you will never be without it.
It’s ' up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
114 George* Street, Sydney.
I QUENTIN
11l til
Mil
y
ADVANCING
INDUSTRY
/"'LOSELY allied with every industry, ever widen-
ing its activities, and adding to its usefulness,
the Bank stands a guardian, a helper and a
stabilising force. • Its widely spread estab-
lishment includes 460 branches and offices in
Australia and two offices in London. Its
agents overseas include leading banking
bouses providing world-wide representa-
tion. • With Capital paid up £5,000,000,
with Reserves £3,300,000 (used in the
business), with aggregate Assets of
£43,000,000, and with seventy-two
years’ intimate contact with Aus-
tralian production, trade and
finance, it links its great monetary
resources, wide experience and
progressive policy to the growth
of the industries of the nation.
THE
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA
5 ut'tokl
. HEAD OFFICE » ,
271-9 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A Cattle Yarn
F. D. Davison’s Forever Morning, which
won a column review from “J.8.D.” here
recently, did hot so greatly take my fancy,
except for the authenticity of its bush, duly
noted by the reviewer. The young author’s
latest, Man-shy (Australian Authors’ Pub-
lishing co.; 4s. 6d.), I find rather different.
Humans are subsidiary in it; it is a story
told from the point of view of cattle; yet
humans are never far from the scene. The
cattle are their chattels, for one thing, and
they are always hovering about, either
working among them or implicit in the
background. Anyway, the author’s humanity
is such that the human element may be
said to pervade the story. And the humans
that do appear are human. They are all
men, cattlemen, and they live, as distinct
from those of Forever Morning, who struck
me as somewhat stilted, especially the
skirted ones—not a rare defect in Aus-
tralian-made fiction women. A fair illus-
tration of this realness of the men in Man-
shy, and also a handy indication of the
nature and quality of the work, is the
passage descriptive of Splinter’s reaction
to the spectacle of the scrubbers dying
where they have been paddocked:—
Splinter drew rein and sat for a minute watching
them, the while an angry flush mounted his neck and
face. Throwing the wire strainer he was carrying
under a tree, he turned and cantered back to the
homestead. Black was crossing the yard as the
stockman rode in and slipped from his horse.
“Here!” said Splinter, prefacing his demand with
neither name nor “mister,” “what are you going to
do about the cattle ?”
Black was disappointed at not being able to cash
in on the scrubbers as he had expected. In his
consequent rage at their dumb obstinacy, he would
have put them out of his mind and allowed them to
stand in the paddock until they died, and all that
was left of them was a rotting heap of hide and
bone; but in the hard, unprefixed challenge of
Splinter’s voice he heard danger. The stockman had
thrown off the discipline' of industry, and was
prepared to have it out, man to man. “I’ll shoot
’em to-morrow. I'll shoot ’em for their hides; that’s
all they’re worth now.”
Splinter’s ethics were satisfied. He mounted and
rode out again.
Briefly, the story is of a foster-mothered red
calf, which escapes from yards and other-
wise leads an individual life when with the
ordinary station stock, and eventually joins
and leads the scrubbers, until, having defied
all other means of being conquered, they
are shot down in the mountains, something
of a pitched battle against neutrals ending
their shadowy career:—
For over 60 years the scrubber band had been in
existence. Stockmen returning to the homestead
would say, “I saw the tracks of the scrubbers yester-
day. They’re watering at night at the Big Gilgai.”
It was like men reporting the passing of a phantom
herd.
The writing is nearly all as good as that.
I have read some of it twice, for the
pleasure of its sincerity and simplicity.
Charm
Another engaging brevity of the moment
is Mary Frances McHugh’s Thalassa (Mac-
millan; Roycroft; 7s. 6d. net), which is
dedicated to perhaps the greatest of living
Australian writers, Henry Handel Richard-
son. Thalassa is sub-titled, “A Story of
Childhood by the Western Wave,” which
reveals the idiom as well as the location,
the setting being a patch of West Ireland
coast. Two qualities stand out in it, apart
from the excellence of. its language—a
gentle, perhaps even mittened, feminism,
and the clearness of the setting. The
former is a handy example of what at least
one reader calls charm in literature. It is
not so much a style as a manner; and few
of our own writers have it to any notable
degree. The book is a record of child life,
with neat character glimpses of the adults
and of an Irishness dissociated from poli-
tical distressfulness. But, though I read
it with enjoyment, I yet felt unsatisfied at
the end. At the time I could find no reason
for this. All I could think was that it was
like a water-color, a pretty thing enough,
but of no solidity.
An Australia Reprint
Then, after Thalassd, I read again Mary
E. Fullerton’s Bark House Days, in the new
Heath Cranton edition (Robertson and
Mullens; 9s. 6d.). The reason Thalassa did
not satisfy seemed clear at once. In
general they are related books. Both are
autobiographies of childhood, and each is
set in the free and open. But in one par-
ticular they differ completely. Bark House
Days has a theme, undercurrent to pvery
chapter, the theme of conflict. The pina-
fored Mary Fullerton and her fellow Gipps-
land youngsters are privileged, if mostly
unwitting, spectators at the only primitive
conflict that bulks
at all in Australian
life, the winning of
the bush. It is our
one piece of pic-
turesque tradition.
America has its
colorful Indians as a background; Africa
its tufted Zulus and the like; even New
Zealand has us envious with her warrior
Maoris. Of the conflict implied here we
have nothing. We have but the fight against
the bush, though of that such a book as this
makes something like worthy tradition;.
One isolated glimpse, of scores that tempt
quotation even at this late day:—
There was one log that my father used to say
had been there before Noah, a water-soaked, moss-
grown mammoth, the embodiment of obstinacy; a
log that man and horse and plough and scythe had
gone round for many a year. At last it met its
Waterloo in encountering a strange, wild-looking
man, whom no one knew as other than “Andy.”
He was a terrifying-looking creature; mad, the others
said; speaking to no one in the huts; muttering
to himself constantly, and going barefooted to his
work on the rigorous winter days. He had a con-
tract to destroy this long-weathered log. We
children used to pass wide of the queer figure, where
day by day he smote the monster with axe and
wedge. Sometimes he sawed, sometimes dug beside
it, and always he burned, stoking his fires with
smaller logs piled against the huge one. They said
that he rose muttering at night, and went out to his
fires, stoking and levering. And so it was worn
away at last, and the queer St. George, having slain
his dragon, vanished I know not where. He had
been six weeks, but then Nature had been much
longer growing that grim tree, and longer, too,
mossing and drenching it fallen, with a thousand
rains.
The conflict and the people as well are
more geperally depicted in another passage
of the same fine chapter:—
Many a time on a winter’s night I have watched
iny father making his bullets for his work of exter-
mination. We used to get our tea in large boxes,
with queer Chinese characters stamped all over them,
and the inside of these bo'xes was lined with thin
lead, which, melted in an old pan, as my father
did it, made bullets of any mould. Bright and
glittering from the moulds they would roll, at a
tap on the hob, upon the hearth, whence, with
gingerly touch, we children would lift them. It
was great entertainment, that bullet-making; but
not its result for the poor native denizens of the
valley whose home we had seized. Back and farther
back to the ranges they went, such of them as
escaped the cruel dispatch ; back they retreated for
ever somewhere beyond the distant skyline. And so
was the valley won from beast and bush.
If it is true that nothing that is well written
ever dies, Bark House Days will probably
remain in Australian literature, side by side
with We of the Never Never, a minor
classic.
Red Ike
If the dictum applies also in the inverse,
then the death of Red Ike, by J. M, Den-
wood and S. Fowler Wright (Hutchinson;
7s. fid. net), will be drastic and
On the whole of fiction’s shelves it would
be hard to find a worse-written book. In
its original form it must have been even
more weird and wonderful. Wright states
in a foreword that Denwood, a wholly un-
practised novelist, originally used two first
persons in the telling, which alone reveals
an ignorance of the rawest rudiments of
narrative craft that makes the achievement,
an unusual and arresting novel, all the
more remarkable. He had also allowed
these two first persons, in the way of the
tyro, to record happenings that could not
have been within their knowledge or obser-
vation. Wright turned the haphazard con-
struction into third-person narrative and
acted as censor (“With greater hesita-
tion, I have occasionally modified the exu-
berance of the more violent episodes and
conversation,*’). Upton Sinclair, in his
downright fashion, has it that when you
set up a censor you set up a fool; but if
Wright’s assumption of the role has meant
much excision the original must have been
raw indeed, for the book as it stands is the
very opposite of effeminate. In fact, the
crudity of its construction may be a good
quality, helping to convey a whole sense
of the roughness of its people—poachers,
fugitives, gypsies and the like—and of its
setting, a wild part of Cumberland. The
story is for those who like action and
plenty of it. It is crowded with violence,
assault and battery, murder, pub brawls,
shots and fights in the dark, flight and
pursuit, and primitive sexuality. Something
definitely happens in pretty well every inch
of type. Its. leading character, Red Ike, is
as rough as they make ’em, a poacher who
is also said to be a poet, though I find
difficulty in believing he could possibly have
written such fine drinking stuff as the
poacher’s song, beginning, “On a night that
is dry, when the wind’s in the west.” The
novel may be only melodrama, but it is
melodrama in the grand manner. Poetry is
in it, and a spirit of wild country which
Hugh Walpole, who also prefaces the book,
lauds as authentic Cumberland.
RED PAGE.
Max Meldrum
I recently had the privilege of seeing the
pictures which Max Meldrum painted dur-
ing his six years’ absence in France, and
which are to be exhibited at Melbourne
Athenaeum on August 18. Meldrum’s career
began with the artistic bewilderment which
filled him after a year or so at the Mel-
bourne National Gallery school. He went
to Paris under the terms of the travelling
scholarship. There he came under the
influence of Titian. “The Peasant of
Pace” was his first attempt to achieve
something, to learn something, to progress
along the track blazed by the Old Masters,
a track which he was convinced simply
{Red Page continued on page 6.)


“THE SENIOR STORE.”
‘■TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Avoiding all that is false.
urn and Ge^""
Postal Address: Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
JV6'
= :S.*’u-
vs-.r^j
F®
. 1?
it .Ul&asowsHi
V.«n
=
J?
.;ss
f r 5355»
as
- :s> -rt«H
'Phone: M 2401, (Day and Night)
35/11 White Blankets Now
(?•
8
Three-quarter Bed Superior,
White Blankets at single-bed
prices. Full standard size and
weight. Secure a pair of these
i quality blankets at the remark-
able saving.
Size, 63in. x 81in. Price, pair . . 35/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 22/11
Superior Grey Blankets from
Extra-special value in Silver-Grey Blankets, in a warm,
fleecy quality.
Sizes, inches 54 x 78 63 x 81 72 x 90 81 x 99
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, pair—
15/6 19/11 21/11 29/11
ďf
4/9 Mercerised Damask Now at
Exceptional Damask Value! A clear saving of 2 j- is
shown on every yard. 4000 yards, a fine mercerised
quality in six attractive designs. Width 67in.
Price, yard '. 4/9
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, yard 2/9
d
69/6 Double-bed Down Quilts
Double-bed Floral Sateen Down, Quilts. Single or double
panels. Well filled with superior down. Covered with
attractive sateens. Floral, Rose or Saxe colorings.
Size, sft. x 6ft. Price 69/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 42/9
42i9
2/6 Single-bed Sheeting at
Heavyweight White Twill Sheeting. A good durable
quality that will stand years of hard wear. Buy now at
this genuine reduction.
Widths 54in. 80in.
Prices yard 2/6 3/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices 2/1 3/1
211
1/11 Colored Turkish Towels
Colored Turkish Towels. A good absorbent quality, in
many gay and attractive colorings. Positively all bar-
gains at the prices.
Sizes, 2& xSQ 2 7 x 54
Prices I/ll 2/3 2/1 1 3/3 3/6 3/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices—
-1/6 1/11 2/6 2/11 3/1 3/6
116
Manchester, First Floor. We Pay Carriage.
Hosiery Bargains
Sale Ends
Saturday,
22/8/’3l.
5/11 Pure Silk Hose
4/9
ss
5000 pairs Pure Silk Hose to be
cleared at 4/9 pair. Fully fashioned.
A good service weight, featuring the
point heel. All the latest shades are obtainable, including new Brown
shades. Every pair perfect and guaranteed to give excellent wear.
Price, pair ; J,
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, per pair
3/
11 Pure and Art. Silk Hose
TK3OO Reinforced feet, wide, expanding tops, square
heels. In new season’s colors of Kasha, Regent, Cedar,
French Beige, Suntan, Streetone, Grey, also Gunmetal
and Black. Price, pair 3/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 2/6
Or 3 pairs for 7/-
2/6
5/11 Silk and Rayon Hose at
Pure Silk Hose, reinforced with Rayon. New panel heels.
Wide, expanding top. Fashionable tonings of Cedar,
Suntan, Streetone, Rose Nude, Flesh, Grey, Gunmetal,
also Black and White, Price, per pair 5/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, per pair 3/11
Or 3 pairs for 11/-
(Hemery. First Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
Jill
32/6 “Ezy Arch” (Regd.) Shoes 30/-
ARC
Above left. “Ezy Arch” Shoes. Scientifically built to support the arch
of the foot. Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns. In Black, Patent,
Black Glace Kid or Nut-brown Kid; pump soles, Baby Louis heels.
Price 32/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, per pair • 30/-
Above right. Matron’s broad-fitting last. Pump soles, covered sports
heel. Price, per pair 32/
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 30/-
In Brown Kid
Brown Kid Bar Shoe. Overlays of
a darker shade on vamp. Pump
soles, medium heels.
Price, pair 27/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 19/11
xO O
Special Matron Shoe
Matron's Black Glace Kid Bar Shoe.
Pump soles, covered sports heels.
Price, pair 27/6
Sale Price 25/-
Welted soles, leather heels.
Price 32/6
Sale Price, pair 30/-
e -7//-
Z/O
m
Tree Brand Shoes
Black Glace Kid One-bar Shoe.
Imitation toecap, welted sole and
leather heels. Price, pair . . . 23/6
Sale Price 21/6
In Brown Willow Calf and Black
Patent. Price, pair 22/6
Sale Price, pair 21/-
( Ladies ’ Shoes, Second Floor.
We Pay Carnage.)
Thone: M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN 8C SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
ď


WORTH
GOING
AFTER
t
OOD hats are hard to get, especially as good
as FAYREFIELD. ... You appreciate the
difference as soon as you fit one to your head and
begin to enjoy the snug comfort of this leader of
the hat world.
Made in Australia from selected rabbit fur, the
FAYREFIELD has built its reputation on comfort:
appearance and hard wear.
There are many styles and shades to suit the most
fastidious wearer.
Nu-felt, 25!-; Super-felt, 30/-
Sole manufacturers of the
“MANSARD” Hat, the new
registered design. »
f
The Trade-mark and Quality are stamped
in every Genuine FAYREFIELD.
3 "Always Ahead ”
SYDNEY:
United Felt Hats Pty., Ltd.,
Nichols Street, Surry Hills.
MELBOURNE:
United Felt Hats Pty., Ltd.,
48 Nicholson Street, Abbotsford.
BRISBANE:
John Bell & Co.,
133 Elizabeth Street.
B. 4-31.
ADELAIDE:
C. G. Wark,
Bower B’ldings, Charles Street.
PERTH:
A. H. Mills,
Central Hay Street.
BOOKS
for Artists, Art Students, Commercial
Advertisers and the Amateur
POST FREE
Animated Cartoons—How They Are Made, Their Origin and Development, by E. G. Lutz, 20/6;
Practical Art Anatomy, by E. G. Lutz, 14/6; Practical Drawing, by E. G. Lutz, 14/6- Practical
Pen Drawing, by E. G. Lutz, 14/6; Practical Hints for Art Students, by C. A. Lasar, 8/-;
Drawing Made Easy—A Helpful Book for Young Students, by E. G. Lutz, 11/- ; Figure Composi-
tion, by R. G. Hatton, 16/- ; What to Draw and How to Draw It, 4/3 ; Another What to Draw
and How to Draw It, 5/4; Stencils and Stencilling for all Purposes, Artistic, Decorative, by
L. Duthie, 5/6; Artistic Figure Studies, 5/6; Figure Drawing, by Harry Watson, 5/4; Sketching
From Nature in Line and Tone, by J. Littlejohns, 3/3; Modelling for Sculpture—for the
Beginner, by G. Bayes, 4/9 ; The Art of Pastel, by A. Airy, 4/9 ; Flower Painting in Oil and
Water Colors, by H. D. Richter, 5/3 ; Art of Sketching from Nature, by T. L. Rowbotham, 2/6 •
Portrait Painting in Water Colors, by Menifleld, 2/6 ; Art of Landscape Painting in Oil Colors, bv
\V. Williams, 2/6; Modern Water Color Pigments, by J. S. Taylor, 2/6; Oil Painting fo*r
Beginners, by S. J. Cartlidge, 2/6; How to Draw for the Papers, by A. W. Browne, 4/-;
The Art of Decorating Show Windows and
Displaying Merchandise.
A Complete and Authentic Manual on Window and Interior Display—
Designed as an Authority for Merchants, Display Men and Students who
seek knowledge of the best and accepted methods in the Successful
Displaying of Merchandise. Contains Hundreds of Window Display designs
in half-tone and color. Fifth and latest ediiton. This is the best work
published on the subject.
Usual Price is 30/-. Special Price, 20/- Post Free.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Water Color Painting for Beginners and Amateurs, by G. B. Allen, 12/-; Composition—An
Analysis of the Principles of Pictorial Design, by Pearce, 19/-; How to Draw Funny Pictures—
Complete Course in Cartooning, with 200 Illustrations, by Matthews, 20/6; Principles of
Decoration, by Hatton, 9/6 ; Drawing and Design for Craftsmen, by Bowers, 6/-; Art Monograms
and Lettering, by Bergling, 27/9; Poster Design, by W. Graffe, 43/8; Living Sculpture—
Record of Expression in the Human Figure, by Park and Gregory, 27/6; Ornamental Designs
and Illustrations, by Bergling, 16/-; A Show at Sho’ Cards—Complete, Comprehensive, by
Atkinson, 27/6; Modern Masters of Etching, by Sir D. Y. Cameron, 7/-; Hieroglyphic or Greek
Methods of Life Drawing, by Braun, 21/3; How to Draw for the Papers, by Browne, 4/-; Laughs
and Smiles and How to Draw Them, by A. Braun, 5/4 ; Way to Sketch —Notes on the Essentials
of Landscape Sketching, by Blake, 11/6; Sketching in Water Colors —Book for Amateurs, by
Stewart, 5/4 ; Water Color Painting, by Allen, 12/-; Amateur Artist or Water Color Painting—
Self-Teaching Manual, by Delamotte, 10/6; First Steps in Water Color Painting, bv Gleason,
15/8; Elementary Perspective, by Crosskey, 8/-; Animal Sketching, by Calder, 8/-”; Drawing
for Beginners, by D. Furniss, 16/6; Pen Drawing—lllustrated Treatise, by Maginnis, 9/4;
Art and Practice of Sketching—lts History and Technique in all Media, by Sahvey, 18/10;
Sketching from Nature, by Glass, 16/4 ; Sketching in Lead Pencil for Architects and Others, bv
Salwey, 11/10; Drawing for Zinc Etching, by Matasek, 11/6; Drawing for Advertisements—
Book of Illustrations, etc., by Foster, 12/-; Art of Shading, by Mann, 8/-; More About How to
Draw in Pen and Ink, by Furniss, 8/-; Color Harmony and Contrast, by James Ward, 18/8;
Practical Hints for Art Students, by Lasar, 8/-; The Bases of Design, by Crane, 10/6;
Architectural Drawing—Practical Handbook for Students and Others, by Hake, 15/8; Figure
Composition, by Hatton, 16/-; Studies of the Human Figure, by Elwood, 25/-; Drawing for
Art Students and Illustrators, by Sealy, 19/6; The Artists’ London—As Seen in 80 New Drawings
by 50 Contemporary Artists, 31/8; The New Woodcut—The Studio Special Spring Number’,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPARTMENT,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS..
YHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES'6-
THE PATRIOT
■DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN 1
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Sponsored
*
dealers
Dacked JbijlZxidC service
Covered bylbCwt guarantees
What more could be said of any battery? Here is a low-cost
battery you can rely on ; behind it stand the Exide world-
wide reputation and facilities Why be content with less?
Car BATTERY
6 VOLT, 11 PLATE
(for light and medium cars)
12 VOLT, 7 PLATE .
(for all 12-volt systems)
Send for your free copy of the Exide Booklet " Taking Care of
your Battery "
DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—Exide Battery Service (Q.)> Ltd.;
Sydney—Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle and,
Melbourne —A. P. Sutherland; Adelaide—Unbeliaun
Johnstone, Ltd. ; Perth —M. J. Bateman, Ltd.; Hobart—
Medhurst and Sons Pty., Ltd.
Co., Ltd.) ;
and
O5/-
39/-


, 4r
<►>
V
V/7 ’ />
-i-hl
Ss
.
m
i
Take Ten Years from Your Age !
Rekindle the Energy of Youth !
Do you quickly catch cold? Do you easily fall
a victim to every ailment that happens? Have
you bad attacks of backache? Do you suffer
from rheumatism constipation stomach
troubles indigestion? Have you lost your
youthful energy?
TAKE WARNING
This is what happens. No
matter how regular your
daily habits, through faulty
action of the bowels par-
ticles of food waste become
encrusted in the walls of the
intestines. This waste mat-
ter accumulates and breeds
germ-producing poisons
which enter the blood
stream, thus undermining
your vitality menacing
your health taking power
from those life-giving organs
of Nature making you old
before your time. Most in-
ternal sickness can be traced
to dreaded self-poisoning
(< autoxima ), the result of
hidden constipation.
BE INTERNALLY CLEAN
Dislodge this crust from the
colon and clean out the
blood stream. Free the sys-
tem of poisonous waste mat-
ter. Drink COLOSEPTIC.
It’s the the prompt way to
internal cleanness to
glorious health and fitness
to new life new vital-
ity new energy. Gently
and without harm COLO-
SEPTIC acts on the colon
. . . the kidneys . . . the
pores of the skin and the
respiratory organs . . . Na-
ture’s four great channels
for the disposal of impuri-
ties from the body. COLO-
SEPTIC has helped thous-
ands of sufferers to renew
their youthful energy. It will
help you! Send for the
Special Demonstration Jar
and make your own test.
Fill in and post the coupon
to-day.
CUT OUT AND MAIL TO-DAY i.
|C
Ega»«;S2-
t«tOJIPTKC0 lta
To Coloseptic Co. Ltd. (29)
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
I am anxious to try COLOSEPTIC. Will you
please send me a Special 1/- Demonstration Jar
and your free booklet, which tells how COLO-
SEPTIC renews the energies of youth. I enclose
stamps or Postal Notes to the value of 1/-.
NAME.
Regular Full-size Jars at
All Chemists and Stores.
ADDRESS
led to the discovery of visual truth.
The process of assimilation and diges-
tion of the Old Masters went on. An
example of this period is the portrait of his
wife with hand on breast. He developed an
extraordinary perfection of craftsmanship-
his “Souvenir of Van Dyck” is invariably
mistaken for a genuine Old Master. Then,
with the gradual mastery of the problem of
tone and the setting down of impressions
of light and space, came the “Family
Group,” in contemplating which one is
immediately reminded of Velasquez. His
early French landscapes show a similar de-
velopment. Then he returned to Australia.
Meldrum had thoroughly digested the
methods of the great masters, but he was not
content with that. Followed further explora-
tion of new ground. His investigations are
now directed towards greater unity. His
eye tends less and leas to wander to
irrelevant detail—tends less to demand bit-
by-bit perfection—but strives towards reali-
sation of the single impression. From
this period dates the furious opposition to
his work. He settled at Eltham, 16 miles
from Melbourne, and started painting the
local bush. He showed us a new truth ex-
pressed with a greater unity; he was accused
of depicting Australia in hues of mud. He
was called an artistic Presbyterian, which
makes anyone who knows him smile. Then
he started his famous school and the rows
began. He was accused of being not a
painter but a preacher, yet in the midst of
the controversies that raged around him he
painted the greatest portraits that have ever
been painted in Australia and did for the
Australian landscape what Corot did for
that of France.
In the face of the opposition he was
unable to make a living, and in 1924 he
returned to France. Probably only he could
say whether the works he has brought
back are better than those he was doing
just before he left, but it is reasonable
to suppose they are. Of their beauty,
subtlety and originality there can be no
doubt. Eveiy art-lover is familiar with the
dreary conventionality and artificiality of
the average travelled Australian painter’s
versions of the European scene. In Mel-
drum’s pictures the singing quality of the
color, the impression of absolute reality, are
apparent to anybody who, leaving his pre-
conceived ideas of what Nature looks like
outside the door, can approach them in a
spirit of humility.
M. G. SKIPPER.
Frank Harvey’s Acting
I saw Frank Harvey twice in the one
play, and if it were still on I would see
him again. The play, “My Lady’s Dress,”
by Edward Knoblock, is a brilliant
evolution of a bright idea. Its general
structure is well enough known. The dress
is shown in the making—silkworms .in
Italy, weaving at Lyons, Holland in 1660
for the lace, Whitechapel for the waistline
rose, hunting the fur in Siberia, New Bond-
street for the finished article. There are
three acts and nine scenes. The actor, in
quick changes, has to interpret seven dif-
ferent roles, only one' of them, the Bond-
street dress-designer, anything like stock,
and even from this one Harvey removes all
traces of stock before he is through with it.
I speak of it in the present tense. That
is as I feel it. The play is finished; it was
played to half a house the last time I saw
it; and I suppose we shall never see the
combination of it and Harvey again. Yet,
thanks to two visits, for it is impossible to
take in all the particulars of Harvey’s act-
ing in this piece in one, it remains now
alive and present, though the show is over.
I never walked out with the near-midnight
crowd without hearing the carpers compar-
ing Harvey’s opposite, Miss Darbyshirc,
with his original opposite of a dozen years
ago, Miss Polini. People are like that.
Grudgers. I do not know how Miss Darby-
shire’s acting compares with Miss Polini’s,
but at any rate it is sufficient to Harvey’s
brilliance. George Lambert, walking regally
about this theatre as he used to do, beard,
chest and all, had the height, courage or
whatever quality was needed to say to these
people; “Did you not notice Harvey’s act-
ing, then?”
They could not have noticed it, or felt it,
or they would have forgotten Miss Polini
and their other bogey names. They would
be walking out alive in a dazzling experi-
ence. I have it now, clearly. A mocking
Italian pedlar, picturesque and sordid,
shallow mask of gaiety over his vicious
bitterness; flamboyant in gesture as in
coloring; to revenge himself on a girl, fling-
ing open the windows, as only stage windows
can be flung open, letting in the cold air
that will kill the fat grubs gorging them-
selves into silk on the leaves about the
shelves; slinging his gaudy pedlar’s tray
under his arm; going out singing from a
place of tragedy.
His make-up is superb. His acting is not
the usual play-reading. It is something
added; creation, if you like; certainly addi-
tion. When the pedlar goes off, it is not the
end of a scene; it is his departure from the
scene, to go singing with his tray along the
lanes. Within a few minutes he—that is,
Harvey—is back as a tippling French
weaver. The supreme quality of his acting
lies just here, in there being nothing un-
natural about this appearance. His French
weaver is not the pedlar transformed, not
at all. The pedlar went off singing, and is
alive still. This is a French weaver. There
is no association whatever. So it progresses,
to Dutch exquisite, to coster, to Russian
intellectual, and to Jacquelin of New Bond-
street. There is no link. Each character is
as separate and individual as if he had been
the only one that Harvey created in the
night.
Some actions in the acting which achieves
this result are as clear as the complete
characters, but it would be futile to attempt
to convey the finer detail. It would be
unfair, too. It would be like cutting a
square-inch out of a painting and showing
that. The detail is there, in a blending.
It is the means only. It is what Harvey
completes that matters. He completes, in
one evening, seven different lives; not
pictures, nor representations, but whole,
detached, familiar individuals. If I met
the pedlar or any one of five of the others
in George-street, I should certainly be
amazed, but only at meeting him there. I
can and do meet them now, but not in
George-street. They are to be met in the
setting to which Harvey gave them. Illu-
sion, no doubt; ephemera, of course; but of
that Life which is called Art, and into
which, it seems, the breath even of an actor
fellow may blow reality.
CECIL MANN.
A Satchel of Books
The Man with the Two Mirrors, by Edward
Knobloek (Chapman and Hall). The well-
known playwright’s shot at fiction is a trifle
more crow T ded than fiction has any right to
he. It gives the impression that its author
lost control and left liis characters to work
it all out for themselves. The principal one
works in carpets in Smyrna, as a flunkey in
England and as a dishwasher in Paris before
he gets into art-dealing, becomes famous,
marries, is deserted by his wanton of a wife,
meets an.d falls for her again, though she
had meanwhile married without benefit of
divorce, and is once more let down by her.
Then he marries the right girl. The title
comes from a Titian picture and so does the
theme, which is sufficiently well handled to
make the story worth pursuing for all its
wandering.
A Certain Man, by Oliver Onions (Heine-
mann). Christopher Darley receives from
an odd character met in a ’bus a coat of
magical properties, and henceforth goes
through the world with the bright and cheery
outlook of Christopher Robin. From staid
suburbanite, resenting the modernism of his
son and daughter and otherwise worrying
his life away, lie comes to see that his
young people are merely young people, and
that life is not a bad thing at all if you
take it the right way. Bright and breezy
fiction, and a better handling of life than
the fantastic idea might suggest.
The Distant Storm, by David Emerson
(Sampson Low; Robertson and Mul-
lens; 7s. 6d. net), has some of the quali-
ties of a great novel, though the author
modestly labels it “an episode.” In 1819
Chris Swayne was a young Manchester busi-
ness man, happily married and the father of
Jonathan, aged six months. He and Jessica
Lampard, a colleague of Henry Hunt, -whose
arrest led to Peterloo, fell desperately in love.
After the catastrophe she left for America
and he went back to his old life. The ending
is ironic, but true and beautiful. There is
some knowledgeable portraiture—of historical
figures like Hunt and Robert Owen in
addition to the imaginative characters—and
the style is full of charm and glamor.
Rest Awhile, by Kate Mary Bruce (Hurst
and Blackett; 7s. 6d. net), goes like this: —
What a lot of sentimental nonsense is talked and
written about maternity, she thought. Actually
there is nothing sentimental about it. It’s a fierce
physical thing, like hunger and thirst and lust, no
more beautiful, no less ordinary. 1 want a child.
“But she knew deep down in her heart that
she did not want Anthony’s child, but
Mark’s.” The trouble was that she was
married to Anthony. To escape the difficulty,
she fled to Switzerland for a holiday, but
Mark’s letters pursued her; and, Mark’s wife
having died in the meantime, Mark is going
to meet her when the story surprisingly ends.
Evelyn, by James Dwyer (Sampson Low;
Robertson and Mullens; 7s. 6d. net), is sub-
titled “Something more than a Story.” The
leading lady communes with ghosts in a
garden, and thus is enabled to solve problems
which would give the average detective a
sick headache. She specialises in linking
up living people with the friends, lovers and
relations they have lost in the war. The
realistic treatment gives an eerie and impres-
sive effect, and a reader is likely to want
to continue to the end, though he will be
no nearer the solution of any real human
problem than he was at the beginning.
Ice in Egypt, by A. M. MacCrindle
(Dent; 7s. 6d. net), is a series of sketches
about Gyppos, most of whom live in Helio-
polis. Diggers will be interested in these
knowledgeable studies, of their old friends.
The book takes its title from Mahmoud,
seller of ice, who acquired his run for noth-
ing as a result of frightening away the
original owner —a superstitious Sudanese —
by a typical Gyppo trick. Mahmoud and his
small son Hamid, who grows up to be a
golf-caddie, are the most interesting and
amusing of a crowd of colored oddities.
The Golden East, by Sirdar Ikbal Ali
Shah (Long; 21s. net). A remarkable mix-
ture of Western erudition and Eastern faith,
of camels and motor-cars, of travel descrip-
tion and political exposition, of holy pil-
grimage and cricket; Turkey, Arabia, Persia,
Afghanistan and India old and new. Alto-
gether a colorful, if simple-minded, picture
of the “Near East” in the current process
of change. The writer is a great believer
in the supernatural; a seer warned him not
to go back to Afghanistan, where he figures
as a noble, long before the trouble which
set up the present ruler. Amanullah, he
contends, lost his kingdom through trying
too suddenly to graft Western manners on
to it. He touches upon the spread of Soviet
propaganda, which he believes the Soviets
could not stay if they wanted to; the only
remedy he offers is a more rigid censorship.
The odd mixture that goes to make up the
book is fairly illustrated, in one of the
author’s speeches: “It does not behove a
guest to say much,” I spoke, bending over
to where the Sultan’s son- was sitting, “but
is there a war on here?”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submittal:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Immigrant '/ Oh no, we don’t blame the
immigrants for getting us into this mess; we only
blame a few latecomers for trying to stop us get-
ting out of this mess Wunderless: You can con-
fidently tell your friend that there is not the small-
est trace of truth in the story—which, by the way,
is new to us... .M.E.M.: Very good, and sorry it’s
too long; 4500 words are the limit to-day....
8.E.R.: We like our horrors more artistically dished
up.... 8.X.8.: Found it tedious.... J.W.D.: A
muddled tale F.L.T.: Why all those chopped-up
sentences? V.C.H.: Either the lady was unin-
teresting or you didn’t know how to handle her....
W.E.S.; Crude melodrama... .C.N.L.: Something in
it, but it is not expertly t01d... .E.H.P.: No space
for debate on whether the good old days should be
called the bad old days.... W.S.: Editorial floor is
strewn with dead swagmen... .T.C.H.: Drab....
E.R.M.: Too slight U.R.0.: “Is it worth while
to labor thus?” No. ...M.A.: One cheery passage
in “Depression”:—
Soon we’ll bring in barter,
And we’ll wear each other’s gear;
We’ll swap a cabbage for some hops,
And all drink home-brewed beer.
... .Abe G.: The woman who fell has come another
thud. .. .G.L.: Not much music in “The Bellowing
of the Cows”.. ..H.G.F.0.: As a first effort it seems
to promise that you’ll one day give it up....J.M.:
Such a good idea that it’s a pity you don’t do better
with it....M.J.: Too much like Keats and lamp-
oil.,.. N.S.: “Antarctic” is the best of yours for a
long time, but it doesn’t quite satisfy E. 8.: Not
to this taste, but try it on another dog... .E.M.L.:
No good excuse for print in “The Camping Place.”
.. .L.L.H.: The sting in the tail doesn’t amend for the
harmlessness of the rest John Cinders: No gold in
the “Fragment” R.C.: Can’t discern any merit
in it E.R.E. : Unreal R.A.8.: If you can get
down off those verbal stilts you should do something-
worth while J.8.T.: Heavy-handed humor; and
Hollywood has worn the main idea thin E.P.M.:
Not even tucker left in that claim... .G.1.F.H.: “Fal-
lowing” received. Found it harrowing. . . .Gem
Girald: Our judge reckoned it a chestnut... .P.J.1.:
“No Time” just expresses it....M.R.: Unimpressive
jingle... .E.H.: Sorry cannot use.... Leamington:
They just miss. .. .G.L. (Bananaland) : All have a cer-
tain swing, but the substance is thin.... Cam. H.:
The good feeling is the best part of it.... Will C.:
Not up to standard, but there’s no saying what you may
be doing ten years hence.... Dampcourse: Brighter
than your nom de guerre, anyway.... T.R.: Fair,
but only in places... .C. 8.: “The Lyrebird” moves
a bit heavily. .. .Gwillian G.: Don’t run as well as
your namesake used to W. J.C.: Can’t make room
for “The Interjectors” Jan. L.: Now even the
basket is suffering from “The Depression”....
Rocky: Local color capital. Verse bumps.,. .K.M.:
Same thing has been better said Kat: Good here
and there, but the thought does not go far....
P.W.8.: Not enough to state some preferences in
rhyme. It’s necessary to make the other fellow feel
with you W.N.L.: Conveys some sense of the
uproar, but the lull at the end is weak... .E.W.P.:
Fairly well done; that’s a 11... .M.J.0.: Even the
rhymes seem old, which means that you’re probably
young... .A.G.: Regarded as being for private con-
sumption only, it’s the cheeriest item of the week.
. ...J.S.W.: The light one is preferable, but neither
tempts J.E.P.: Can’t float a cheque to that
chanty... .Bellerive: A touching end to the great
Tasmanian serial:—
ONLY A CARD.
Only a card, a Christmas card,
A precious token to me.
In memory —of a once dear pal,
Who perished on a wreck at sea.
Founded the ship on a lengthy trip,
With passengers and crew went down.
Sadly I learnt the tragic news,
One evening in Hobart town.
.... E.F.: It’s wonderful how long that fellow has
gone around with a broken heart... .8.M.N.:
Promising, but the finish is rather weak. .. .R.H.N.:
Might suit a boys’ paper K.S.C.: You have a
poor idea of what goes on inside a newspaper office.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.C.: Why inflict the mail-male pun on us ?....
C. : Dialogue in the moonlight fell on deaf ears.
... .D.D.T.: Painstaking but wooden... .D.P.: More,
flowing lines needed... .J.T.: Stowed away on a
shelf, as requested... .F.H.W.: Where’s the joke?
.... H. J.: Better than most of the stuff sent, but
not good enough. .. .R.R.A.: What are they sitting
on ? Cloud or pricked balloon W.A.: Drawings
impossible; will consider original jokes if you can
bring any forth S.C.: Nothing exceptional about
it... .L.L.: Homeward bound... .F.R.: Prefer the
wash, but don’t fancy either... .J. 8.: Not without
merit, but the gag is ancient... .S.C.P.: You are
unequal to the task you set yourself... .G.T.: A
ponderous jest... .E.M.: It took us several minutes
to distinguish the spinster from the skyrocket....
D. : Fidgety penwork and a “London Opinion”
gag..; .C.E.S.: Antediluvian humor.... J.W.L.*:
Hodcarrier and foreman won’t blister these pages
with their adjectives... .W.F.: Reads more like a
homily than a joke... .8.V.: They are just hurled
on the paper N.A.W.: Goggle-eyed urchin on
scooter is no advertisement for the artist. .. .H.C.:
Throw away the strait waistcoat in which you encase
your characters... .S.A.: Your flapper is thumbless.
... .H.M.G.: Careless work.


d
FAMOUS
HR.
wBkSBSi,
'
*
\:M
iia^Mi*s»a
•;■ : ; |
, .
affeB ...„W„ * * . •-,
1
MB
mm
m
-
■
m
warn
■v-li
1
■
m
m
s
l§§
m
m :
• :...
I
, M
ill
'■I
m
i
i
m
l V
...
RE
iSilllI
-
Td? '*'
; !i:
liiiBlB!iBil«SII*»» ii
a
B
i
■
mm
i
f
bT«
:
I H
■
. i-
m -
.
■'"'I
: \
. v
a
■
■11
E-l
H
1M
•:-B '
i
ii
1 I
M
sr m*
..
■
in
I
1
f m
\
u
w
ft!
I
*
! ' ■••
at
mam ,
■
4 ''' V.
i v
JR
P
: ?*#T''v.;l
: ■
. .
mmmi
m
y
mm
i
HK;
99


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2688.
August 19, 1931.
MUCH PLANNING, LITTLE PLANTING.
“The Premiers’ Conference has appointed a ‘secretariat’ to explore avenues for absorbing the unemployed.”
“Now this is really a revival of your Development and Migration Commission, Mr. Bruce. So what would you suggest?”
“Why, put them all on the secretariat, of course.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21! t George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87871.
Victoria : Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, los. 6d.j 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
RUSSIA TEACHES AUSTRALIA.
lisr the old days, when The Bulletin was
a voice crying in the wilderness, it was
careful to divide the difficulties that were
awaiting Australia into two: one. it called
the gold, the other the paper difficulty. It
was the gold difficulty which always
alarmed The Bulletin ; the paper difficulty
was dismissed as easily got over. Yet it
was to the latter alone that the Premiers’
Conference gave attention in June; and it
is with this that the Premiers’ Plan is
alone directly concerned. The enormously
more troublesome gold problem still awaits
solution.
In round figures we owe 1150 million
pounds, of winch roughly 570 millions are
held overseas and 580 millions in Australia.
The great difference between the two debts
is that the one raised and owed overseas
is a gold, while the other is a paper debt.
When a country buys or borrows overseas,
its payments have to be made in something
upon whose value the nations have agreed.
And there is only one such thing—gold.
Now, we cannot raise gold by taxation.
All the Ewings and McMahons and McGees
in Australia could not squeeze a handful
of gold out of all the pockets in this coun-
try. We don’t add a sovereign to our stock
of gold, either, by cutting down public-
service salaries and wages, or by “docking”
pensions and interest on the domestic
debt. All that the Premiers’ Plan can
directly do, even if it is more successful
than the most optimistic Premier expects,
is to bring more paper into the Treasuries
and keep more of it there; and, though
that is enormously important, it does not
directly add so much as an ounce to the
available supply of gold, which alone can
pay overseas interest.
Then if we cannot meet this overseas
interest debt by taxing ourselves or by cut-
ting down public-service salaries and reduc-
ing pensions and other public expenditure,
how can it be done? As we have seen, it
has to be done with gold; and since we now
produce only a fraction of the quantity of
gold required for the purpose, there is only
one alternative—to produce other goods
which we can sell abroad for gold. In this
matter Russia is in very much the same
position as we are. The Soviet Government
finds its country veiy short of most of
the things which an enlightened country
thinks it needs. That was the position of
Australia anything from five to seventy-
five years ago: it, therefore, borrowed
foreign gold to make the purchases, and it
bought railways, tramways, waterworks,
harbors, docks and other things of the kind.
To-day we have to nay the interest on
those loans, and pay it in gold as we con-
tracted to do. Russia cannot borrow, as we
did: it has had too many Langs on the
premises. The result is that, whereas we
got credit, Russia must pay cash. But the ,
ultimate result is the same: to raise the
necessary gold abroad—principal in one
case and interest in the other—we must
both of us export goods and offer them at
prices which will command buyers in foreign
markets.
After playing with the problem for 12
years, from 1917 to 1929, Russia faced the
difficulty in the same way as, in essentials,
we will have to face it. The Soviet Gov-
ernment evolved the Five-Year Plan—a
scheme for driving the whole population of
the country to work as it never worked
before, notwithstanding that probably Stalin
and his associates have just as little love
for making people work on poor, pay as
Scullin has. One great advantage, however,
which Stalin had was that he wasn’t afraid
of losing a few votes. Another, hardly
less, was that, when any local demagogue
talked about maintaining the workers in
reasonable comfort whether they worked or
not, he could be most effectually suppressed
and no fuss made about it.
Though we hear so much about the
brutality of Russian methods, it is easy
enough to see very close to the surface a
tremendous amount of patriotic fervor. Of
this we get many unexpected little snap-
shots. A characteristic one was supplied by
the crew of the British vessel which a few
weeks ago brought timber to Australia
from Vladivostock. They reported (whiie
we shuddered) that most of the dock work
was done by young women; and they added
that these young women, as far as could be
ascertained, were of the highest moral
character, and were doing this work volun-
tarily to release men for the more arduous
productive work of the Five-Year Plan.
Another traveller told us (and again we
shuddered) that in many districts women
were doing all the farm work, including
in some parts the draught work, that the
men and horses might be released to serve
the Five-Year Plan.
Yet the one difference of any consequence
throws the onus of supreme effort more
heavily upon us than it can fall upon the
Russians. They are working to earn the
money to supply their country with rail-
ways, tramways, docks, factories, etc. We
borrowed the money for the purpose, got
the railways, etc., in advance, and now must
pay interest on the money. Certainly we
can default—we can say that, having got
the works, our foreign creditor can whistle
for his money: the greater fool he for not
finding out in advance what scoundrels we
werel But if we think we are going to thus
earn anything but the contempt of those
Communist leaders whose good opinion we
are apparently so eager to have, we shall
certainly be mistaken. Governments which
work out a Five-Year Plan and carry it
through so determinedly are not the rogues
that the poor, ignorant imitators of Soviet-
ism in Australia would like to think.
And, anyhow, if there was no Russia to
guide us, the position would be quite plain.
Though we have cut our imports, as some
think, to the bone, and though last season
our wheat harvest was beyond all previous
records, we were still 11 millions short of
paying our gold bills abroad. We were able
to tide over the difficulty by issuing short-
dated p.n.’s and shipping away all but
about 15 millions of our gold reserves; but
we can’t ship the same gold twice, we float
p.n.’s now with great difficulty and we
can’t rely upon a run of wheat seasons like
that of 1930-31. And all the Premiers’
plans for increasing paper revenue and
decreasing paper expenditure will not save
us or go a millionth oart of the way towards
saving us so far as our gold debt is con-
cerned—so far, that is, as our debt with the
whole outside world is concerned. Nothing
but increased production can do any good
there. W'hether we shall save our demo-
cratic institutions and voluntarily make the
necessary increase of production, or whether
we shall await a Stalin or a Mussolini, is
entirely for ourselves to say. The world
could not produce men more unlike than
the Russian and the Italian, attacking their
nations’ problems from two opposite Poles;
yet neither could find any substitute for
hard work, and much of it miserably paid
work.
AUSTRALIA RECONSTRUCTS.
Having taken the first steps towards balanc-
ing our budget at home, Australia’s next
job is to set about redressing the balance
of its external trade. At present the annual
charges on our overseas debt are about 40
millions a year, which sum has to be—or
ought to be—provided by an excess of
exports over imports: it cannot be done in
any other way, though we may postpone
the settlement by borrowing abroad—when
we can borrow. It is suggested that as
soon as we show that we are in earnest
about balancing our budget, London will
open its moneybags to us again; but,
although temporary loans may be neces-
sary, borrowing is only a weak and cowardly
way of getting out of our troubles, by add-
ing them to those of the next generation.
The only honest and sure method of meet-
ing the situation is to live within our
means. Until the prices of our staples
improve, this involves larger exports or
still further reduced imports or some of
both.
First attention ought to be given to the
schedule of imports. Every pound saved
there is a pound available for the payment
of our interest and other overseas debt
charges. If the pound saved is spent in
Australia, the position is not altered—
the pound is still available for payment of
overseas debt. Thus the pound that we
don’t spend abroad on the purcnase of
American tobacco can be spent in Aus-
tralia on Australian tobacco, and a pound
more will still be available to pay interest
on our English or American loans. And
the spending of the pound in Australia
brings this further advantage—it goes into
an Australian pocket which may pre-
viously have depended upon the dole, and
part at least of it comes back in income
and other taxes as a set-off against the loss
in Customs duty.
Last year our imports amounted to
£60,184,279 as against £164,127,759 in 1927.
No doubt our purchases in the latter year
were greater than we could afford: they
were partly paid for out of the heavy bor-
rowings which have since stopped. But our
normal purchasing capacity has not dropped
£100,000,000; and the greater part of that
amount ought to be spent on Australian
goods in place of the foreign lines which
the higher duties have shut out. Yet there
has been no increase of home-manufactured
goods; on the contrary, there has been a
tremendous shrinkage. It is this anomaly
which has to be righted. The people are
still here and they still want goods; the
only reason they cannot buy them is that
they are not at work earning money by
producing them. If manufacturers believed
they could sell their goods even at a micro-
scopic profit they would make them. The
trouble is lack of confidence; and the first
essential is to revive that wilted plant. Only
in N. S. Wales would that be difficult even
under present circumstances. The Premiers’
Plan is most important in that connection;
and a great step forward will be taken when
the announcement is made—as it surely
will be made—that the Loan Conversion
has been a complete success.
After that, costs of production must be
attended to. If this were an entirely self-
contained country, buying nothing abroad
and owing nothing abroad, it would not
matter how high wages and other produc-
tion costs were. The more money men
earned the more they would have to spend,
though they might get no advantage out of
their high wages because costs would also
necessarily be high. But in a country which
must make large payments abroad, and
must export goods to meet them, the costs
of production must be governed by those
of its competitors. If the Australian farmer
has to compete in his markets with a
country of low costs—Russia for example—
either our costs for the goods which the
farmer has to buy must be low, too, or our
farmer will be starved and eventually
forced out of the business. And with our
heavy foreign debt—chiefly incurred to
cany out the Labor policy of State owner-
ship—we simply dare not allow the farmer
to be starved out.
The reduction of costs effected by the
Premiers’ Plan and the public-service cuts
which it involves are not enough. Indeed,
those cuts are designed not to lower costs
but to wipe out deficits. There must be
something far wider-reaching. Thankless
as the task may be, the public services will
have to be completely overhauled. Nothing
less will enable us to reduce taxation, which
at present is one of the major causes of
high costs. And that will involve making
provision for the maintenance for a time of
thousands more men. It cannot be done by
way of the dole, which merely adds to our
great trouble—the over-burdening of the
producers. For, of course, every man who is
not earning his own keep has to be carried
on the shoulders of those who are. The
Bulletin has hitherto suggested that steps
must be taken to put some thousands of
men on the land with a pick and a shovel
and a cow and a few fowls and packets of
seeds. There is no prospect of these men
adding anything to the exportable wealth of
the country. But temporarily* they could do
something just as impqrtant; they could
go off the dole; this would lead to a
reduction of taxes; a reduction of taxes
would mean a reduction of costs; and thus
the men who are engaged in the nationally
indispensable production of export staples
would be helped through their excessively
lean time.
THE REVOLT OF THE COUNTRY.
Never since the first days of the Labor
party has any political stir in Australia
shown so much vitality and real feeling as
the Country movements. We have got used
to mob waves and impulses: and very
important—and very bad—results they can
have under our democratic system of gov-
ernment if they are well timed. The effect
of mob enthusiasm or mob anger or mob
anything-else is, however, soon lost: once
the crowd has dispersed its atoms grow
cold and inert. But the Country movement,
like the early Labor movement, is a
matter of deep conviction; and once that
has been reached, there is no need of any
exterior influence to produce action.
It is not surprising either that there
should be this striking resemblance, because,
after all, the root-causes of the two move-
ments were much the same. It was not a
matter of wages so much as a feeling of poli-
tical helplessness that brought the Labor
party to its birth. It was very difficult at
that time for the manual worker to get on
the electoral roll or to stay there; property
qualified a man to vote in a dozen dis-
tricts; and there was not a single represen-
tative of the laboring class in any Leg.
Council in Australia. The thoughtful
worker—and not manual worker only—felt
that the legislative power had been usurped
by a class and was being used for an utterly
selfish purpose; and the birth of the Labor
party was a righteous revolt against all this.
The Country movements owe their exist-
ence to the same feeling of tyranny and
wrong. That man who said “W'e are sick and
tired of being governed by Surry Hills and
Woolloomooloo” put it in a sentence. It is
no use deploring the division between city
and country, no use pointing out that there
are no such divisions in England or France
or Italy. The complete answer is that Eng-
land and France and Italy have not been so
incredibly foolish as to gather each one-
half of its population into one city, and
make that monstrous wen the centre of
government. Victoria has 57.30 per cent, of
its population within the metropolitan area,
S. Aus. 55.99 per cent, and N. S. Wales 49.99
per cent.; England has only 11.15 per cent.,
France 7.05 and Italy 2.22 per cent. In the
latter countries, therefore, the division which
exists in Australia between the one big
city and the rest of the nation is not pos-
sible.
And our circumstances have conspired to
make the division not only more real but
more deadly. The country, having no manu-
facturing centres worth mentioning, is
wholly dependent upon the primary indus-
tries. By slow degrees the well organised
trades unionists of the big city, aided gener-
ally by the public services, have pushed
higher and higher the rates of pay for labor:
there has been practically no limit to which
these rates could be forced behind the
shelter of the Customs tariff. But the pri-
mary industries, though their costs were
increased by every such rise, had to market
the bulk of their products overseas. The
result was bad enough—for the wheat and
fruitgrowers at any rate—under normal con-
ditions. When the bottom fell out of the
overseas markets, the position became in-
tolerable. The farmer was then caught
hopelessly between high costs and low
prices.
Had any large proportion of city workers
shown any disposition to come to its rescue,
the Country might have given another
demonstration of its patience and forbear-
ance. But eveiy proposal for the reduc-
tion of costs was fought. In the circum-
stances, therefore, the Country does well to
rebel. Australia must preserve the industry
in which its farmers are engaged. Our
foreign debt compels it. Yet nothing is
more certain than that this indispensable
industry will be strangled if it is left to the
mercy of the big city. Hence the Country
movements can be regarded as not only of
national importance but veiy probably
essential to our national salvation.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bimetallism and Price Levels.
Last week the “Times” declared that the
gold standard might have to be abandoned
and silver remonetised. The first important
post-war warning of great danger from the
scarcitjr of gold came from the international
economic conference at Genoa in 1922. That
body was alarmed at the prospect of the
available gold supply being inadequate “to
provide for such an expansion of credit and
currency as would be needed to meet the
requirements of growing trade.” It did not,
however, suggest bimetallism as a remedy.
Instead, it proposed that steps should be
taken to make the world’s supply of mon-
etary gold go further by a system of ration-
ing, leaving a few nations to hold the entire
reserve in trust for all. But nothing was
done; and the metal continued to drift
more and more into the hands of the United
States and France, which have most
obviously failed to use it for the relief of
trade and industrial depression.
Before the war the abundance or scarcity
of gold, speaking broadly, determined price
levels. With the development of Central
Reserve banking it was believed that gold
had lost its old power; and certainly there
was something in American experience to
suggest that- this was a fact. By the opera-
tion of the Central Banks the enormous
inflow of gold was deprived of what had
been believed to be its inevitable result;
only sufficient of it became “bank cash” to
meet the growing requirements of trade.
But while this prevented inflation in the
U.S.A., it left the balance of the gold
inoperative so far as world-prices and world-
trade were concerned. So we have had the
terrible spectacle of a standing army of un-
employed lately never less than 14 million
in Britain, and at times 24 millions.
The immediate cause of this vast unem-
ployment was the lack of credit; and the
lack of credit was due to the steady fall in
price-levels. If it were true that the Cen-
tral Reserve Bank system had robbed gold
holdings of their power, these things should
not have happened. It may still be that
Central Reserve Banks are capable of doing
what was claimed; what can be said defi-
nitely is that they have failed to do it. And
there is evidently an important and growing
body of opinion that they cannot do it.
There was a time when other measures
would have been adopted to meet the pro-
blem of falling prices. Wages would have
been reduced; and the fall in pay might
have been counterbalanced by the fall in
cost of living. But it is with the utmost
difficulty that labor anywhere can now be
got to see it in that way. The workers
have won great political power, and in most
places can command a Communistic dole
which enables them to resist the ordinary
workings of the law of supply and demand
—to the further damage, of course, of the
industry of the country.
It is this last fact which is forcing many
minds to the conclusion that the most
practicable way out will be, not to attempt
further to reduce wages in order to meet
the fall in values, but to raise the values.
So we have this resurrection of bimetallism.
It at least is not untried: bimetallism,
indeed, is older and lasted longer than the
single gold standard. Tremendous diffi-
culties would no doubt have to be over-
come before it could be re-introduced; but,
then, tremendous difficulties have to be
overcome whichever way we turn. Plainly
the position in Britain is becoming very
serious. The crash of the English £in
relation to gold—really these days in rela-
tion to the American s—is$ —is far too prob-
able to be pleasant; and even a remedy
which might have been regarded as fantas-
tic any time between 1900 and 1914 can no
longer be ruled out on that account if it
holds out hope of lifting price levels. This,
there is no doubt, bimetallism could do.
whatever the subsequent reaction might be.
As for Australia, being a great debtor,
any world-measure that will lift the value
of products, and especially primary pro-
ducts, must be to our advantage.
,£>
Work Can Be a Curse.
It is very difficult to root out of the public
mind the idea that what we most need is
work. Australia is suffering from this crazy
idea more than from almost anything else.
Of course the politicians have been largely
responsible—there are not many evil things


among us for which they have not been
responsible. Men with votes hanging to
them have wanted work, so the country has
been dotted with unnecessary railways and
bridges and gaols that the jobs might be
supplied. Railways have thus been driven
to increase fares and freights in the struggle
to maintain a bloated service; and high
freights have been reflected in the shocking
cost of carried goods in country towns—
complaints on this score are particularly
vehement in Victoria and Queensland.
Outside the public service the tendency
is all in the same direction. The bakers in
Sydney have been supplying the unem-
ployed with bread through retailers in the
ordinary way. Then by some process which
has not been explained, probably because it
will not bear explanation, a middleman
co. was interposed: not a firm to make
bread in vast quantities and sell it cheaper,
but just a concern which wouldi come
between the bakers and the retailers and
get 3d. a dozen loaves for its pains. No
sooner had this scheme of doubtful odor
been announced than the breadcarters
began to make a commotion: the scheme
was not to be tolerated because 500 of them
would be thrown out of work. Now, The
Bulletin trusts it has as much sympathy
as anyone with those who are thrown out of
work; nevertheless, it declares that thus
far this is the only good thing which has
been said about the whole scheme. If 500
men can be done without—that is to say,
if there are 500 unnecessary parasites on
the producers—they ought to be removed;
and this country cannot make much pro-
gress until they are removed. Exactly the
same thing is happening in connection with
the Savings Bank of N. S. Wales. The
Commonwealth Bank would take it over;
but “Wouldn’t that throw a lot of men
out of work?” it is instantly asked, as if
that settled the question.
Australia is so deep in the muck mainly
because of this failure to recognise the
enormous difference between work and pro-
duction; this failure to recognise that all
non-producers are parasites upon the pro-
ducers; that there is no virtue in work;
that, on the contrary, inasmuch as work
may be an excuse for withholding men
from production, it may be a positive curse.
But we smugly embrace the curse because
it makes things for the moment so much
easier for us. It is so much easier to say to
these 500 breadcarters that they must be kept
in their apparently superfluous job than it
is to find another for them. So the backs
of our primary producers are bent under the
appalling deadweight which they are asked
to carry; and hence the drift is all away
from the land, although, as figures published
this month show, our exports are even
now at least 10 millions too small to pay
our overseas interest and other bills. Un-
less we can pump up more courage to
denounce as evil the things that are evil,
to denounce as wasteful the things that
are wasteful, we shall get out of our
troubles with great difficulty, if at all.
*
Heal and Imaginary Contributions
to the War.
“He was disappointed at Britain’s attitude towards
Australia after what Australia had done in Britain’s
crisis in the Great War. Australia is now able to
meet all her commitments in Britain with wheat
and wool and other products, but Britain insists
on gold. Britain should have helped Australia,
instead of forcing her to pay £10,000,000 in exchange
for nothing - . There would have been no difficulty in
the way of the Imperial Government establishing
credit in London for Australia’s commitments.”—
Deputy Labor-leader McCallum of Westralia.
This continuous atmosphere of grievance,
injury, martyrdom, self-sacrifice and lamen-
tation over the base ingratitude of parties
on whom Australia has conferred untold
benefits has lasted from 1914 to 1931, and
seems good for many years yet. It grows
wearisome.
The Commonwealth, whatever enthusiasm
a section of its people displayed in 1914,
had, underneath its fervor, sordid motives
for wading into the carnage. If the Allies
lost after a war of exhaustion, it meant
that Germans, Austrians, Bulgarians and
Turks would divide the British Empire.
Australia didn’t want to be part of the loot,
and it knew it couldn’t put up much of a
lone and belated defepce after the great
fight was over, with a few people, few ships
of its own, no big arms factories and its
habit of depending on oversea loans even
in peace-time. It was mere commonsense.
therefore, to spend a little money on insur-
ance. So, though Britain had eveiy reason
to be pleased when it saw the Dominions
rallying for their own and the general de-
fence, it doesn’t owe a load of gratitude to
Australia or any other Dominion.
As regards the money aspect of the case,
Britain’s debt arising out of the war is now
about £l4O per inhabitant. The Common-
wealth’s is a trifle under £44 per inhabitant.
Australia got off very cheaply.
The Commonwealth was the very rare
example which shirked the burden of com-
pulsory service. So its soldiers were a care-
fully selected crowd—they selected them-
selves, the cowards and traitors staying at
home. A lamentable number of Australians
stayed at home from the worst motives.
They . remained, not through a passive
shrinking, from disturbance, but to preach
Communism, debt repudiation, treason,
terrorism and pro-Hunnism, and to heap
foul insults on our soldiers. To-day men of
the same class hold forth to a preposterous
extent about the services that “we” ren-
dered to the Empire in the dark days, and
the base ingratitude shown by horrible Brit-
ish people to “us” for the billions “we” had
sacrificed solely in Britain’s interests. A
feature of the same campaign is the state-
ment that this country has been basely
wronged because the Old Man in London
doesn’t give or lend enough without security
to pay Australia’s oversea bills for an in-
definite time. This is vaguely described
as “establishing credit.”
There is less of the grotesque than appears
in this mixture of denunciation of the Aus-
tralian soldier—the “six-bob-a-day-mur-
derer”—with denunciation of Britain on the
pretence that it isn’t properly grateful for
the murderer’s services, and ought to lend
or give to those who slandered him worst
many millions on account of those services.
It is a case of stirring up the same old
fire of hatred, but with the other end of the
poker.
4
Onr Golden Age—and It Passed
Unnoticed!
“The tariff as it now stands was designed for the
purpose, not of raising revenue, but of prohibiting
imports in order to benefit the manufacturer, and,
incidentally, his employees, who share in the plunder
provided at the expense of the consumer. Its reduc-
tion would, therefore, naturally tend to increase the
Customs revenue.” —Adrian Knox, ex-Chief Justice,
in the “S. M. Herald”
It is the regulation picture painted by the
regulation Freetrader of the Golden Age
which is waiting for us with the door yawn-
ing wide if we will only enter in. And the
artists ignore the fact that we have been
there very recently, and have* been thrown
out in disgust and disillusionment. Only
yesterday, so to speak, the tariff was much
lower than it is now, and it was much more
designed for* raising revenue than for pro-
hibiting imports. It was so successful both
ways that Customs revenue was much more
than it is now, and imports, which are
down to £60,000,000 per annum, were close
to the world-shaking figure of £165,000,000.
That was the Golden Age which the Free-
trader proposes to bring back.
Unfortunately the men who supplied the
imported goods wanted to be paid in gold,
or in goods that were worth gold, and when
these things were short Australian Govern-
ments took to borrowing some £50,000,000
a year so that the aggregate creditor might
be paid for his own goods with his own
money. The scheme couldn’t last, any more
than a bogus company. The Labor Govern-
ment, which chanced to be on deck when
the Golden Age petered out, isn’t identified
with bloated manufacturers except in the
diseased imagination of Freetrade fanatics,
but it restricted imports because there was
no hope of paying the interest bill and the
bill for the foreign goods as well. About
12 years ago Australia was accustomed to
buy abroad to the value of about £65,000,000
per annum and to pay the bill mostly with
its own earnings. Then an after-war mad-
ness came upon the nation, and it reached
a climax in 1926-27 when imports climbed to
£164,717,000, and the dizzy community bor-
rowed a record sum to help pay for them.
Now the great lender, J. Bull, is himself in
difficulties: the daily cables talk about the
need for intense economy, and the possible
necessity for outside assistance.
The position would be simplified if the
man who craves for more imports would pay
for what he gets from England in money
that has a real value in England. But he
insists on paying in Australian money. And
when the importer has accumulated a lot
of this stuff, he takes it to his banker, and
asks him to change it, by means of a draft
on London, for real British money. And the
aggregate banker, looking at that and many
similar heaps, replies that he hasn’t enough
real money in London himself, so the im-
porter’s client will have to do with less
imported things for a time or probably for
life. Parliament then tries to regulate mat-
ters by shutting out some things in the
hope that there will be enough real money
to pay more important things, including
interest on the oversea debt. And that is
the condensed story of restriction of im-
ports.
4
The Busted Savings Bank.
“I had money in the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank. I owed money to the Homes Department.
Now it will not accept my Savings Bank deposit
against the debt I owe. Why?” —Service Department
inquirer.
This question and a score of others like
it, along with columns upon columns in
the daily papers, show how completely mis-
understood is the position not only of this
bank, but of banks generally.
The G.S.B. accepted deposits and under-
took to pay interest on them. In order to
earn that interest and pay working expenses,
it had to lend out the money. Now, it is
a very common thing to hear people com-
plaining of the high rates of profit which
banks or other concerns are making. Some
profits are excessive. But in nine cases out
of ten, if the profits are high there is a very
good reason for it. All through 1928-29
two apparently flourishing concerns were
advertising in three cities for deposits and
offering up to 12 per cent, for them. Both
those cos. are in liquidation to-day: and
their creditors have little chance of ever
getting their money. No investment can be
made without risk: and the risk is enorm-
ously greater than the general public will
realise. Of all investments that of a
savings bank deposit should carry as small
risk as any ; yet here we find even savings
bank depositors unable to get their money.
But “why can’t it be used to pay my
debts to the Homes Department?” this
Service Department inquirer asks. The
answer is, because, unfortunately, the money
isn’t there to pay anything or anybody.
Two-thirds of it was lent to the Govern-
ment and was spent on railways, or police
stations, or roads, or bridges, or schools.
The other one-third was lent to private
borrowers and is now represented by houses
and lands, or was spent on office premises
and the like. Some day the Government
may borrow money from somebody else,
and pay off all or part of what it owes this
bank; or it may reduce its debt by paying-
in taxes. But it can do neither one thing
nor the other quickly. As for the remain-
ing one-third, those who have borrowed
from the bank will no doubt slowly pay off
their loans; but quick action here is equally
out of the question. Thus only a micro-
scopic part of the depositors’ money is
money any longer; and it will be years
before the bulk of it is money.
The best that depositors can hope is that
as the assets are turned into money the
latter will be repaid by instalments to
those to whom it belongs. Meantime there
is no reason why they should not be paid
interest in cash—so long, of course, as cash
can be collected by the bank from its
debtors, the Government of N. S. Wales in
particular. The period over which repay-
ment will be spread will depend upon the
terms which the bank can make with its
debtors, or possibly upon a sale later on of
the old business.
Were the old business taken over by the
Commonwealth Bank it would be possible
immediately to pay out something substan-
tial, advanced by the Commonwealth Bank
for the purpose. On the other hand, if the
bank is re-opened without that support,
any immediate payment must necessarily
be very small. For new deposits will not
be available for the purpose: if that is not
made very clear, the bank will find it impos-
sible to get many deposits. No doubt many
old depositors want the bank re-opened
because they think that they will then be
able to get their money. They will be dis-
appointed. So far as speedy repayment is
concerned, it is almost certain that the
depositors have more to hope for from
absorption by the Commonwealth Bank
than from a separate reopening.
*
A Goose and Its Golden Oil.
Senator Daly, Assistant Minister, talks
enthusiastically of employment awaiting
tens of thousands of Australians in the
shale-oil industry. It is not the first time
we have counted our eggs from this bird
before it has had a chance to lay. Of the
occurrence of shale deposits over a large
area in the Blue Mountains of N. S. Wales,
extending for more than a hundred miles
north and south, there is no doubt; nor is
there any doubt of their richness—in places
their phenomenal richness. But wide distri-
bution is not a virtue; if it was, there would
be virtue in the wide distribution of gold
in sea water. Where minerals are con-
cerned, the trouble nearly always is that
there is not enough in one place. What has
beaten shale enterprises hitherto has been
the high cost of extracting, not the oil from
the shale, as is generally supposed, but the
shale from its narrow bed. It was that
which killed the Commonwealth Oil Cor-
poration at Wolgan; even more definitely
it was that which killed the plucky effort
of John Fell and Co. to resurrect the
industry there.
It is all a matter of costs. From Joadja
in the south to Murrurundi in the north
there are good prospects if the ventures can
command the hearty co-operation of the
workers. That co-operation has not been
forthcoming hitherto; and some of the
men largely responsible for the murder of
the goose are among those who are now
clamoring for its resurrection—with public
funds. Great harm may therefore be done
if we talk now, as we have talked more
than once hitherto, of the astounding rich-
ness of these deposits. The simple fact is
that so far over three millions has been
spent upon them without any return what-
ever, and the only co. which ever made
money was the little concern operating at
Little Hartley in the days before the Miners’
Union developed its militant habits.
From the national point of view and
apart from the discovery of flowing oil-
wells, there is no possible new industry
whose development could be of greater
importance to Australia; the drain upon
this country to pay for imported oils and
liquid fuel is prodigious. This makes
it of the utmost consequence that we should
proceed about this business in the right
spirit. And we shall not get that right
spirit unless we recognise that this is a
bird which, though it holds out promises
of laying many golden eggs, nevertheless
hangs on to life by a veiy slender thread.
4
The High Court Judges and the Crisis.
Three Judges of the High Court have
voluntarily returned 25 per cent, of their
salaries— i.e., £750 apiece— to the Treasury.
The other three prefer to do their bit by
foregoing, as from September 1 next, the
£4 4s. a day paid to each Judge while
absent from his State on High Court busi-
ness. This sacrifice has all sorts of undesir-
able possibilities. A Judge who undertakes
not to draw his travelling allowance may
find himself “indisposed,” as the euphemism
goes, when asked to travel. Already Perth,
Adelaide and Brisbane have been cut out
of the Court’s itinerary. The least WA..,
S.A. and Q. litigants have a right to expect,
if they go to the added expense of journey-
ing from their own capitals to Sydney or
Melbourne, is a reasonable amount of cer-
tainty that they will get a full Bench. In
any case, the principle is all wrong. A
trustee isn’t allowed to have a financial
interest in the estate he is administering.
The High Court would have quite a lot
to say to one who, e.g., sold property be-
longing to himself, however innocently, to
the estate. An analogous position will
arise after September 1 whenever a litigant
applies in chambers to Chief Justice Duffy
or Justice Starke for an appeal to be heard
in Sydney, or to Justice Evatt for one to be
heard in Melbourne; financial interest will
come in conflict with duty whenever one
of them is asked to travel.
The argument that “nothing must be
done to affect, or weaken, the section of
the Constitution providing that the re-
muneration of Judges shall not be dimin-
ished” is unworthy of those who are relying
on it. Men who volunteered in the late
war didn’t commit themselves, or anybody
else, to permanent military service, and
similarly a Judge who pays £750 p.a. into
Commonwealth revenue doesn’t commit
future Judges to do likewise. He is simply
playing the part of a patriot in a crisis
which is as serious as a war.
♦
Apostles of Communism.
“Gad,” on his northern travels:—
I struck a friendly spark between myself and a
young bagman; but we were camped together several
days before he told me the story of his month’s
“hard” in Albury Gaol. He had referred to it pre-
viously with a fine feeling of delicacy, and I, know-
ing the etiquette of the track, did not probe the
matter. I knew that it would all come out when we
knew one another better.
He had started out on the track with a mate, and
before many days they fell in with a third youth
who, hardened to the ways of the road, suggested
that they should all “jump the rattler.” They picked
on a train in the Albury siding. But the jump
proved abortive; after settling down in a truck
they were disturbed by a kindly porter with the
warning that the stationmaster had sent for the
police. So they gathered up their swags and silently
crept away. Overtaken by the police, in spite
of their protestations against the charge that they
had “jumped” the train they were detained in custody
that night, brought before a magistrate next morn-
ing, and sentenced to a month’s hard labor apiece.
The original charge of “travelling without a ticket”
was varied, during the course of the proceedings
against them, so that they found themselves jugged
on a charge of “trespassing on railway property.”
By way of mitigating the severity of this sen-
tence, the magistrate explained that he wished to
make an example of them. Some days after the
Albury Gaol had received these three (the place was
so crowded that the three had to be accommodated
in one cell), five more youths were received there on
a similar charge. And, maybe, more “examples” are
still being manufactured for the benefit of thousands
of bagmen who remain in blissful ignorance of this
lawgiver’s sagacity.
From my experience of the track I tell you it is
such as these who are the real apostles of Commun-
ism. The only result of a perfectly savage sentence
of this sort is that it forces a number of decent
young Australians into a condition of mind at vari-
ance with, and antagonistic to, established order—
a condition of mind from which they may never be
able to successfully emerge.
*
Secession in Westralia.
After the usual preliminary agitation the
Westralian secession problem got as far as
the Assembly, and the Assembly resolved by
a large majority that it should be referred
to the people. The idea is to hold a refer-
endum and thus decide whether Westralia,
because of its grievances, shall quit the
Commonwealth and burst its shackles.
There are no grievances of any importance,
but this isn’t a good time for a politician
or a paper that seeks the support of the
hydra-headed majority to say so. It may be
a splendid time for saying so a year hence.
One locally-popular idea at the moment is
that Federation is .somehow responsible
for the public debt, though £172 per head
of it is local peace liability contracted by
Jimmy Mitchell and other local notabilities.
The position with regard to this liability
is most extraordinaiy. If Westralia or any
other State contrived to get clear of the
Commonwealth, the State debt would still
be owing, and the Commonwealth, which
guaranteed the State debts, or the five
States which remained to form the dimin-
ished Commonwealth, would be liable for
it. But it looks very much as though
Westralia wouldn’t be technically liable.
The amended Constitution says that if a
State fails to pay its interest bill, and the
Commonwealth pays for it to save itself
from being technically a defaulter, the said
State must refund. But if the said State
has departed, and vanished, and fled, and
seceded, and is no longer a State, its liability
for its own public debt seems to be finished,
legally at all events, while the liability of
the other States remains. If Victoria
remains a State of the Commonwealth while
Westralia successfully skips out, Victoria
will be liable for Westralia’s debts, while,
it seems, Westralia won’t be liable. Lang
probably didn’t think of this, or he might
have put the secession of N.S.W. on his
programme; but the Westralian secession
leaders appear to have an idea of it, hence
their assurance that secession will save a
pile of money.
If a really Red element ever gets control
of things the States may clear themselves
of their debts by all seceding and leaving
the Commonwealth with all the liabilities
and no one to collect from.


In Craven “A” I always find what I expect
• • •
that extra touch of Quality
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
mm
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
Under great pressure Lang has come into
the Loan Council instead of throwing his
unpaid bills in through the window. He has
come in so generously that there is little
room for anybody else. For the month of
August five States wanted he1p—£2,960,000
in all, which is a lot for one month. Of
this Lang wanted £1,830,000. But measured
by population N. S. Wales w T asn’t quite the
worst. Westralia asked for abQut 225. 6d.
per inhabitant of loan money ; the demand
of the Ma State was for about 14s. Bd. per
head. S. Australia asked for 6s. 7d., Vic-
toria for ss. 3d., Tasmania for Is. lid., and
Queensland said it would get along without
borrowing anything.
The extent to which the tax-collector has
been constituted judge, jury and hangman in
his own domain was illustrated when the
N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Association put it up to
Lang that income tax shouldn’t be levied on
income already confiscated at its source as
unemployment relief tax. Lang passed the
protest on to the State Taxation Commis-
sioner, who said there was no provision in
the Act authorising him to make the deduc-
tion, a view with which the Federal Com-
missioner concurred, adding that the pre-
sent deductions -were very liberal. There is,
of course, nothing in statutory law authoris-
ing the tax-collector not to\tax you on a
legacy of £lO,OOO which your rich Uncle
Bill might have left you if you had had an
Uncle Bill rich enough to make the bequest
and considerate enough to die. Arithmeti-
cally, legally and logically, there is no differ-
ence between that hypothetical legacy and
any other income not received. As to the
“liberality” or otherwise of statutory deduc-
tions, that’s a matter on which the tax-
collector’s opinion is quite irrelevant.
Queensland civil servants, who have
hitherto more, or less meekly kissed the rod
of economy, have grown restless under the
latest cuts. At their annual conference the
other day threats of what would be done to
ibe Government at the next elections fell
thick. Have the Northerners heard of what
happened to the N.S.W. civil servants who
felt the same way about Bavin’s small econo-
mies and decided to give Jack Lang a
chance ?
It requires an awful amount of importing
to satisfy our Low Tariffist. The imports
of 59 countries are given on page 94 of
“Whitaker’s Almanack,” and for the year
to June, 1930, when Australia had reduced
its imports by £35,000,000 as a matter of dire
necessity, only 10 of these imported to a
bigger value than this almost empty conti-
nent. The Freetrader then vituperated
greatly about our tariff being
For the year to June, 1931, when Australia s
supply of oversea loans had stopped, and
its most populous State had gone insolvent,
imports were reduced by another £70,U00,000.
Yet there were only IS countries on the list
of 59 had a larger bill.
Uncle Sam has half the monetary gold in
the world and more unemployed than ever
“Drowned in a flood of his
own dollars.”
he had be-
fore. And it
is not only
the actual
u n employed
who are wor-
rying him:
his vast agri-
cultural
population is
mostly on the
b r e a dline,
because one
after the other
primary
prod ucers
are making
“low” records
—wheat has
just done it,
and cotton
(L i v e rpool
price) has
now touched
4Jd. as against 2s. in 1920. Samuel
hud an idea a while ago that Central
Reserve Banks would somehow do the
trick for him —that world prices could
be lifted and the gold still stay in
N’York and thereabouts. But he is begin-
ning to suspect that a man can be drowned
in a flood of his own dollars.
By 42 votes to 9 Vic. Assembly carried
the third reading of the Financial Emergency
Bill providing for service-pay cuts and mort-
gage interest reduction. The diehards were
Blackburn, Cook, Cotter, Drakeford, Frost.
Hjorth, Jewell (Government Whip), Reid
and Solly; and fellow-workers Keane,
Murphy and Holland paired ag’in the mea-
sure. Despite remonstrances outside, the
amendment made in committee at an earlier
stage allotting country members of the House
£447 a year as against £402 10s. to metro-
politan members was adhered to. The pay
for all private members previously was £5OO
p.a. Six Assembly salaried Ministers and
tb'i Speaker and Chairman of Committees
are allowed only one dip in the moneybox
and lift nothing for their services as M’s.P.
N.S.W. Opposition asked for a Royal Com-
mission to inquire into the letting of a
contract to supply dole bread. The request
was refused on a party vote. Where there
are so many smells it was felt that one
more or less oughtn’t to be made a fuss
about.
Here it is at last—the formal claim for
the right to loaf. Resolution of the unem-
ployed of Broken Hill:—
It was decided that the members for the district
be demanded to do away with Clause No. 25 in the
instructions to issuing officers in connection with the
issue of the dole.
The clause reads:—
Where work of any kind is available and has
been refused by the applicant food is not to be
granted.
The N.S.W. Savings Bank crash is having
its effect. Victoria doesn’t hear any more
of the proposal to appoint another Trades
Hall nominee to its Savings Bank board,
vice Mcßeath, deceased; and the chances
are that Scullin won’t look that way either
when Reading’s term shortly expires at the
Commonwealth Bank board.
The High Court Judges get £4 4s. per day
“travelling allowance.” Most “travelling
allowances” have been fixed far too high, and
as they are claimed whether they are spent
or not they amount to a huge addition to
public-service salaries. The Governments
should go through them with an axe.
The struggle to make the huge loan con-
version scheme look like a voluntary affair
still goes on ; and every little dog that has
agreed to have his tail cut off is expected
to rush out among the other dogs and bark
his delight. The truth, of course,, is that
every dog is going to lose something, and he
can’t be sure that, if he doesn’t voluntarily
“Every dog is going to lose something.”
sacrifice his tail, he won’t compulsorily lose
his head presently. But that unpleasant fact
is kept well in the background for the
moment.
The Bananaland Government party has
at last decided to push on with the process
of restoring the Leg. Council. The means
were left entirely to the Government,
a rider being added that if a referendum was
decided on it should be held before the end
of the current year. But wlxat is another
referendum wanted for? The Government
made the restoration of the Council a plank
of its election platform, and the electors had
previously voted no on the question whether
the Second Chamber should be abolished.
The fact that a former Government con-
temptuously disregarded that vote is no
reason why still another vote should be
taken. If you trust a out without a
kicking-strap and it knocks the cart to pieces,
what’s the sense in sending it out again
without a kicking-strap to find whether it
kicks ?
In response to an urgent appeal by Pri-
minister Forbes the trading banks in M.L.
have cut interest- rates. Overdrafts have
cost 7 p.c. since May, 1927 ; they have been
brought down to 61 p.c. As fixed deposits
fall due, there will be a reduction to 31
p.c. for the shorter periods and 41 p.c. for
the longer (two years or more). The banks
don’t like the cuts, which are described as
“artificial”; still, it is admitted _ that even
a slight cheapening of money will help to
get the country out of its tight corner.
Maoriland is fairer to its wheatgrowers.
The current sliding duties on imported wheat
and flour guarantee the farmer a return of
6s. 9d. a bushel, with the result that nowa-
days the Dominion grows all its wheat re-
quirements and its farmers don’t have to
starve to do it. As a concession to hard
times it was lately decreed that from the
end of February next the wheat duty would
be lowered by Is. 4d. per bushel and the
flour duty by 58s. per ton ; but the South
Island wheatgrowers have successfully agi-
tated, and the reduction is to be whittled to
Is. Id. per bushel and 48s. per ton; Pri-
minister. Forbes used to grow a good, deal of
wheat himself, and he. is thoroughly in favor
of the price-stabilisation policy, which was
born in wartime.
Whiddon’s tote shop is the most flourishing
concern in N. S. Wales; queues were draped
all around the premises when the Govern-
ment Savings Bank was re-opened for the
sale of first lottery tickets. Two days saw
the 100,000 tickets (at ss. 3d.) sold out;
and the sale of chances in No. 2 tote started
“If Missa Scullin would let him set up a
fantan joint.”
at once. About 4s. in the £is expected to
be over when all prizes and exes, are paid;
and many a Chinese market-gardener would
gladly chuck up the cultivation of the callot
and yield up 30 per cent, of his total takings
if Missa Scullin would let him set up a
fantan joint.
Of course the real point was obscured by
Gosling, the Minister in charge of tin hares
and dole bread. Through the Shadier syn-
dicate the Government, it was urged, had
a chance of getting cheaper bread for the
unemployed; and that was all that matters.
But it is not all that matters. If a syndi-
cate which doesn’t bake a loaf of bread and
doesn’t intend to can supply cheaper bread
and still make a huge middleman’s profit,
what sort <>f rotten business organisation is
it which the syndicate supersedes?
The storm aroused by A. D. Kay’s restora-
tion to a seat on the N.S.W. Metropolitan
Meat Board has nothing to do with the adapt-
able gentleman’s knowledge of the meat indus-
try or with his abilities as an accountant or
with his capacities for organisation. The
question simply is whether a member of
Parliament who sells his seat to a Govern-
ment which he wasn’t elected to support in
return for a non-Parliamentary billet is a
fit man to hold any public post where
integrity and trustworthiness are demanded
just as much as ability.
One of the Bananaland Government’s mea-
sures authorises the charging of tolls on pri-
vately-constructed roads, bridges and via-
ducts, Its first application will probably
be to the proposed general traffic bridge
across the Brisbane River at Indooroopilly,
which a private syndicate has offered to
build if permitted to recoup itself by tolls.
Government is to fix the rates.
Queensland’s Meat Industry Board, which
is to run the huge State abattoirs on the
banks of the Brisbane River, is composed of
dyed-in-the-wool experts, no political heelers
or soapbox spruikers having been included.
The chairman, E. F. Sunners, has a whole-
time job at £2OOO a year ; he is a Queens-
lander who went to Swifts when the Ameri-
can co. first set up in Queensland. The
producer member of the board, F. M. Bell,
comes from one of the most renowned cattle-
breeding families in Australia; the third
man, W. M. Mclntyre, who represents the
Chamber of Commerce, was brought up in
an atmosphere of agriculture and stock rais-
ing, going later into a bank. They are to
get, not £23 a week, like Lang’s soapbox
proteges, but £3 3s. a sitting.
While Premier Hogan was ill in Mel-
bourne there was a scratch meeting of Min-
isters at his bedside, and the schedule of
the Financial Emergency Bill, providing for
cuts in service pay, was modified to placate
some of the lower grades. Hogan managed
to keep in some sort of touch with his thick-
and-thin supporters in the Assembly, but
among the rank and file there were murmur-
ings because no party meetings had been
called to discuss the Labor conference’s con-
demnation of the retrenchment scheme em-
bodied in the Finance Bill. However, the
Caucus had already, by 22 votes to 12,
approved of the bill, so with Opposition aid
the Government managed to bullock the bill
through.
Niemeyer’s report oh M.L.’s banking and
currency system contains no surprises. He
proposes permanent legislation making M.L.
notes inconvertible in M.L., but convertible
into sterling within fixed limits for external
purposes. A reserve bank with sole right
of note issue should be set up, with which
the trading banks should lodge all their
gold, together with reserves amounting to
7 p.c. of demand and 3 p.c. of time liabili-
ties. This done, the embargo on the export
of gold coin should be lifted. The reserve
bank should also hold the Government’s
banking balances. Niemeyer’s fear of a gold
shortage and a desire to facilitate the flow
of gold to London are evident. Of course
the reserve bank must be “entirely free from
the actual fact and the fear of political inter-
ference.”
No use to think of flying to the Pacific
Isles as a refuge from the tax-gatherer. The
imposition by the Papuan Administration of
a primage duty on imported goods by way
of balancing the budget has just roused the
non-official whites to public, meetings and
indignant resolutions. The ordinance went
through just in time for its provisions to be
applicable to a rice shipment about to
land, so the slug started at once. As it is,
Papuan consumers pay southern suppliers the
6 per cent, sales tax, and in addition pay
the 10 per cent, ad valorem tax. The Papuan
primage is based on the ad valorem list, with
the result that consumers are being shot at
from three quarters at once.
The N. S. Wales State lottery is a pretty
fair sort of gamble as such things go. Every
ten days or a fortnight 100,000 tickets are
issued at ss. 3d., bringing in, if all are sold,
£26,250. Prizes, of which there are 814,
ranging from £5OOO to £5, amount to
£16,300, the State’s gross profit being £9950.
The odds against a ticket winning a prize
are 12,287 to 100.
Queensland is holding its tail high because
it alone isn’t badgering the Loan Council for
funds—with little Tasmania a good second.
The last Labor Government up north left
the Treasury with something in hand, and
the Moore Government, seeing bad times
ahead, has kept a close watch on every
penny. To-day it can put its hand on over
tw'o millions. As a result of the Govern-
ment’s careful finance and general common-
sense, the cost of living is well under that
of any other State, the basic wage is corres-
pondingly lower, and there is less commer-
cial gloom. Certainly the season has helped;
but it helped N. S. Wales also. The differ-
ence is that Moore saw that the old drunk
was over and we’ve got to take to the hard
road again, whereas Lang decided that the
old drunk could be continued by lambing
down anybody who looked like having a bob.
The dole takes a shape at Broken Hill
which may cause a great deal of trouble some
day. For many years it was felt that men
who had contracted disease in the mines
should be compensated ; but, instead of shift-
ing affected men on to, say, farm work,
“Entirely surrounded by bones.”
where they would probably recover, they
are “put on compensation,” and hang round
the town literally in hundreds. The last
mine at which the man worked is generally
charged with the cost; and the co. is liable
to have' its total liabilities computed and
ordered to put up securities for the amount.
Junction North, failing to do this, was
recently seized and sold for the debt. The
computed liability was about £40,000 and
the mines, plant and everything brought £4OOO.
The balance has to be made up by the other
mines. Most of them are very sick, and
another is liableto fall out at any time,
which will throw a still bigger burden on
the rest. In the end we shall see the last
“compensation man” entirely surrounded by
the bones of the companies he has eaten. But,
then, the whole dreary dole business is just
like that.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Mother’s Help”: What miracles these
modern babies’ homes perform ! Some time
ago a doctor, writing in The Bulletin
about under-sized babies, reported the recent
arrival of one weighing a good deal less than
21b. Some may be interested in the subse-
quent history of that almost formless mite,
the premature offspring of a woman then
seriously ill. Well, he (there was some
doubt even about that at first) was taken
immediately .to Tresillian, the training school
for baby clinics, at Petersham (Sydney),
where a certain number of mothers and in-
fants are housed. The child fell away to
lib. lloz. To convey food to such an atom
was in itself a delicate operation : it could
not be fed in the ordinary way, because
even the little effort which that would have
called for would have been exhausting and
dangerous. However, under the. personal
care of the devoted matron, the right foods
were ascertained and properly administered,
and to-day at six months the infant weighs
61b., is bright, begins to grow a mop of hair,
is wearing his first clothes (hitherto he has
been swaddled in cotton-wool), and has wide
blue eyes in what every nurse on the start
declares is a laughing face.
* * * *
“Viau”: In the matter of accurate aerial
navigation towards a tiny objective the per-
formance of Macintyre and Goble when they
were flying around Australia in a Fairey sea-
plane will take a lot of beating. Before they
reached Thursday Island the pilot’s compass
had become ineffective, and Goble steered the
pilot from the rear cockpit by means of
impromptu reins fastened to his arms. Navi-
gated in this manner the machine left Thurs-
day Island for Elclio Island, some 400 miles
distant across the Gulf of Carpentaria. The
last stages of the journey were done in thick
rain and clouds, but so good was the reckon-
ing that the airmen were over the island
when they emerged below the mists.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: “Rue RoyalcV’ yarn
about the German waiter at Sydney’s Paris
House w-ho served hectic parties in the
private rooms all the week and banged a
Salvo drum on Sundays, using his lament-
able experiences as texts for burning
addresses (B. 12/8/’3l), recalls the story
of the English cavalry sub. on leave from
India who took his inamorata to dinner in
a Cabinet Particiilier at the London Cafe
Monieo. The meal had been well started
when the couple, engrossed in themselves,
looked up to see the amazed French waiter
staring at them. “Damn it,” said the ruffled
sub., “surely you are used to this sort of
thing?” '‘Ah oui, M’sieu,” was the apolo
‘getic reply, “but nevaire between ze poisson
and ze entree.”
* * * #
“Bildad”: Murders may be divided into
four categories from the detective point of
view: (lj Where the murderer is discovered
and convicted: (2) where somebody is dis-
covered, but there being no conviction it
would be libellous to say that the murderer
has been found; (3.) where nobody is found ;
(4) where the body itself isn’t found. The
crime of Edson, the Adelaide tram conductor
who shot himself without waiting for de-
velopments when a policeman asked if . his
young wife had been seen about lately, might
have been a No. 4 ease but for a scrap of
foolish economy. Edson had become engaged
to his prospective second wife before get-
ting rid of the first; still the vanishment of
the first aroused no suspicion, it being ex-
plained, as in thousands of other eases, that
she had gone off with another fellow. The
end might have been the usual undefended
divorce proceedings, only the new best-girl
was noticed to be wearing the jewellery of
the lady who had gone away, and a suspicion
arose that she might not have gone very far.
As it proved, she had retired under the floor,
like the late Mrs. Crippqn and the late Mrs.
Deeming, and like the vast indefinite army
of late people who are still under the floor
or under something, and likely to stay there.
Recently a gentleman, aged 77, was executed
in England, and he gave in his later hours
the addresses of five more bodies, spread
over 20 years, that he and his partner had
disposed of. The Law decided to let them
rest. The Federal Statistician, in his migra-
tion figures, makes what he calls an “allow-
ance for unrecorded departures”—44o for
the first quarter of 1931. No suggestion
is offered as to names, ages, sex, place
of burial or method of unrecorded de-
parture. Another question concerns the
number of people who are successfully and
profitably personating somebody who is no
more—who wiped him out and assumed his
or her identity. A good deal has been writ-
ten about unsuccessful impostures, but no-
thing has been written about successful ones,
because being successful they weren’t found
out.
• * * * Hf
“Collat”: A prisoner in a sensational rob-
bery ease disappeared about the time he
should have been surrendering to his £5OO
bail in Sydney the other day, and hasn’t
yet been located. One of the dailies, com-
menting thereon, remarked that it was a
mistake to suppose that the bail money in
such cases was always estreated; if the
bailsman could show that lie w r as blameless,
he was seldom dealt with hardly. This is,
of course, true; there is a good deal of legal
fiction about bail in any case, the liability
being mostly assumed without the money
being actually put up. And the police are
frequently anything but exacting about the
sureties they will accept. Sometimes they
take a lot of chances. I remember the case
AN OBVIOUS WASTE.
MINNIE: “I don’t have any tiffs with my poor boy now he’s out of work.”
WINNIE: “No, I don’t either. What’s the use when they can’t afford the chocolates
to make it up again?”
of a bank clerk committed for trial oyer a
shortage in his funds at Kalgoorlie (W.A.).
He was pretty well known, and, there being
no business men handy, the Court obligingly
accepted a couple of equally obliging news-
paper reporters as sureties. The responsi-
bility didn’t weigh heavily upon them until
their man vanished, when they began to
look very blue indeed, neither having any
hope of raising the money. But a friendly
detective (the same Jack Walsh who was
afterwards brutally murdered) heartened
them up. “Don’t worry,” he said; “we’re
quite convinced you knew nothing about
Blank’s disappearance; it’ll all come right.”
So they ceased worrying. Some months later
the flown bird was re-cooped in a northern
town, though probably it wouldn’t have
greatly mattered to his paper sureties if he
hadn’t been.
$ * *
“Dauber”: These hard times for artists
have led to the discovery that many
a man who could not afford 20 guineas
for a water-color would be glad to pay
a small sum for the privilege of living
with it for a month or so. To meet
this want there has now come into being
the Picture-lending Society of London,
which is letting out works by well-known
painters and sculptors on a sliding scale of
charges. Pictures valued at £5 cost 2s. 6d.
per week, and so on up the scale. Hirers
can change them as often as they like or buy
them outright.
:Jc :Je *;• #
“Sinnik”: Chief Justice Duffy and Jus-
tices Starke and Evatt. won’t help Australia
much by giving up their £4 4s. a day “trav-
elling allowance.” In the first place it isn t
a travelling allowance at all; they will still
get transportation free, meaning their
steamer and train fares and so on. The four
guineas per diem is supposed to be what
each Judge spends on board and lodging
while absent from his State. But there isn’t
a hotel or club in Australia where a man
can legitimately get rid of £29 Bs. a week on
his food, drink and lodging. A tenner would
be an outside figure at present prices. If,
as alleged, some Judges have drawn as much
as £lOOO a year in “travelling allowance”
money in the past, then all I can say is
they must have made a considerable profit
on the transaction. In any case it can’t
happen again. All the High Court Judges
belong to either Sydney or Melbourne, and
they are not going to sit outside those capi-
tals in future.
* * * *
“Battei'sea”: According to General Mon-
asli, J. T. Lang is not even original in his
fatuities ; the discovery that no Government
servant ought to receive more than £5OO a
year wasn’t his own but was “stolen holus-
bolus from Gandhi,” the Hindu patriot,
who can live on fourpence a day. But
numerous persons had ventured on the pro-
position before Gandhi and Lang. John
Burns, who was a Labor leader in England
long before there was a Parliamentary Labor
party, expressed his considered opinion 40-odd
years ago that no man. Government servant
or anyone else, was worth more than £5OO
per an. The time came when he must have
bitterly regretted saying so, whether or no
he thought it, for John presently found him-
self one of the minor Ministers in a Liberal
Cabinet drawing £2OOO a year and finding it
the reverse of painful. His saying was
quoted against him for the rest of his life—-
by a new Labor generation that never took
much stock in John, the sometime idol cl
the toiling masses. >
;j: * ❖ * !
“Centurion”: While agreeing with “2nd
Divvy” (P>. 12/S/’3l) that the revolver is
an uncertain weapon, I differ from him when
he says that the shooting of the gunmen of
the movies, as shown Hollywoodenly, is too
good to be true. The modern American gun-
man follows the precept laid down by the
bad men of Arizona and Oklahoma in the
not so long ago when Dodge City and
Tombstone were in their heyday—he gets
close to his man and delivers his fire at such
close quarters that it is impossible to miss.
Frank Sutton, last of the “bad man”
sheriffs, tells us all about it in that very
fascinating book of his, “Hands Up.” He
makes it clear, too, that whenever there was
a bit of distance between shooter and shootee,
a marvellous lot of powder was burned with-
out any material result. Certainly I saw a
bit of long-distance shooting in a film the
other day which may be the one “2nd Divvy"
had in mind. The successful marksman, how-
ever, used an automatic pistol, a very dif-
ferent shooting proposition from the revolver.
:|: * $
“Morris”: Catapults (B. 29/7/’3l) were
used by the A.I.F. at Anzac for shoot-
ing cricket-ball bombs into the Turkish
trenches. They were constructed like the
shanghai of our boyhood, the rubbers, about
lin. in diameter, being stretched by means
of a screw attachment. The bomb was
placed in a leather pouch, and after the time
fuse had been lighted with a fusee match the
weapon was fired by means of a trigger. On
account of the large Avooden frame they were
awkward to handle in a trench and were not
popular, but some of the Diggers made very
fair shooting with them.
* * *■
“Mugwump”: “Drifter” (B. 29/7/’3l)
reminds me. Twenty-nine years ago I was
on the Wallaroo (S. Aus.) jetty when a big
sailing-ship slipped her mooring lines and
drifted towards it. There Avas a big swell, but
she seemed to approach almost imperceptibly,
rising slowly on the crest of a wave and
then sinking gracefully into the trough. The
first contact with the jetty merely scratched
her paintwork, but the next wave carried
her about two feet further, and when she
sat down ever so gently on the decking the
piles snapped off like carrots. The next
wave carried her over the railway track, and
the rails tAvisted up like hits of rope. A
poet would have described her progress as
majestic and awe-inspiring, but what im-
pressed me most vividly was the risk a man
runs when he takes a large fat lady on his
knees.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nerang” : A memory of splendid days in
Queensland was revived the other day when
a party on the ocean beach on Stradbroke
Island, near Brisbane, dug up several bottles
of whisky, believed to be part of the cargo
of the Scottish Prince, a. windjammer laden
to the beams with the Scottish national
beverage, which went ashore on the coast m
the ’eighties. The inhabitants of that, part
of the world have been well catered for by
circumstance. Ten years or so later another
whisky ship, the Cambuswallace, was
wrecked near the same spot. In both cases
the population of the neighborhood, mostly
small farmers. on isolated holdings, seized
the gifts showered, upon them with avidity.
In spite of frenzied efforts by the Customs
and police a lot of the cargo vanished as it
came ashore, and for long after the local
publicans did a very poor trade.
THE VISION SPLENDID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In view of the splendid success of the State lot-
tery, as evidenced by the waiting queues of thou-
sands, would the Premier consider increasing the
staff and appointing agents in country' centres V’
—Question in N.S.W. Assembly.
“Mr. Whiddon paid a high tribute to the work
of his assistants, many of whom had gone without
meals to All the demand for tickets.”
Sec the crowd that rocks and surges and
resistlessly converges
On that shrine of thrift and saving that
we once were wont to prize
(Now% unhappily, suspended) ! Ain’t it
positively splendid
To observe the swift reaction to this newer
enterprise ?
What’s the use to worry ’cause it’s full (or
•bare) of locked deposits?
Note the swarming throng around it!
Hear the clatter and the clang!
Business rises, spite of clashes, .like a Phoenix
from the ashes
’Neath the guiding hand of Whiddon and
the rare resource of Lang.
Though the bank wherein you trusted so
unquestioningly busted,
Accidents like that must happen, and it’s
useless to lament.
Here’s a banker come to give his customers
a chance of divvies
More productive by a thousandfold than
three or four per cent.
Here last week w r as scarce a rustle. Now
there’s buzz and hum and bustle.
Solid diligence at pressure that would
leave a beehive beat.
Brisk as beavers, blithe as crickets, clerks
are filling up the tickets,
Scarcely counting it a hardship that they
haven’t time to eat.
Commerce crippled? Trade stagnating? O
you croakers, stop your prating!
These incessant jeremiads have a tendency
to tire.
Here’s an organised aggression ’gainst the
demon of depression,
An astutely planned conception going like
a house on fire.
Here’s a scheme that reinforces our indus-
trial resources;
Here’s a singularly simple means the wolf
at bay to keep ;
Here’s a comforting reflection in the dol-
drums of dejection,
That a dollar and a thrum will buy a
ticket in a sw r eep!
LAMBS'IN WOLVES’ CLOTHING.
BILL: “A girl can’t believe all she hears, you know.”
JILL: “Oh-h-h! Are you going to be a disappointment, too!”
See the pavements packed and cluttered
round the bank that late was shut-
tered !
Note the sanguine, eager faces and the
pulsing, panting queues.
Courage, brother! Ev’n supposing avenues
of toil are closing
There are philanthropic persons opening
other avenues.
Though the wowsers are offended, isn’t it
intensely splendid,
This invigorating concourse? Come, we’ll
let dull care go hang
While we send a grateful paean up into the
empyrean
For the handiwork of Whiddon and the
statesmanship of Lang.
N.s.w.
T. THE E.


“Gad”: I find it hard to believe that these
things have happened in Australia. In fact,
I W’ould not believe them, only that they
happened to me :
(1) I walked 28 miles in North Queensland the
other day in my bare feet for five bobs’ worth of
rations, which are supposed to last me a week.
(2) I gratefully accepted a job from a Chinaman.
I filled four dozen empty bottles with kerosene for
him. He paid me 6d. for my labor.
(3) I met a bloke the other day who has recently
been docked of 2s. 6d. in his invalid pension—of £1
per week. He said: “If that half-dollar helps the
country, I don’t mind”....
And—
(4) The same day (as above) I read that certain
High Court Judges would not agree to a reduction
of their salaries (about £3000).
But, then, I know a Judge who, while on a
salary of more than £2OOO a year, appointed
his own daughter as his associate, and thus
kept out of that position another applicant,
an ex-service man (a law student previous
to going to the war, who wanted to con-
tinue his studies for the Bar). I know —
because I am that ex-service man.
*.* * *
“All Fours”: A pocket Bible or a prayer-
book, carried over the heart, has been known
to stop a bullet and save a soldier’s life
before now, and a pack of playing cards has
proved equally efficacious, though supplying
a less edifying moral. The cards turned up
THE DARK HOUR BEFORE THE DAWN.
ARTIST: “Did you see that joke I left last week?”
EDITOR: “Not yet! But I’m still trying.”
m a new place last week when they were
found beside the bodies of two Austrian
Alpine climbers, a professor and a banker,
buried in glacier ice 12 years ago and easily
identified because of their perfect preserva-
tion. There was no diflieulty in reconstruct-
mg the tragedy; the doomed men, overtaken
by a storm in a place where there was no
hope of human aid, were playing cards by
the. light of their last candle when death
arrived to take a hand. But the contest
wasn’t for diversion or mere bravado; it was
just the last desperate endeavor to postpone
the dreaded “snow sleep.” The game isn’t
mentioned; it is a nice question what two-
handed game would enable men to fight drow-
mness the longest in such a ghastly setting.
“Traffic”: It is an offence for drivers
of Sydney ’buses to pick up or set
down passengers at tram stops. One
day last week a portly citizen suc-
ceeded in getting the ’bus pulled up at
one of these points. When he dismounted
a passenger asked the driver if he knew he
had been guilty of a breach of the Traffic
Act. “Not by a long way this time,” was
the reply. “That’s Mr. Blankan; he’s one
of the city police magistrates.” No summons.
* * * *
“Mells”: The Commonwealth Government
has been advertising a vacancy for a police
constable on Norfolk Island. The job is
worth £3OO a year, and whoever gets it will
have to do some pioneering, for it is not appa-
rent from the records that any sort of Hop
has been either sta-
tioned or wanted there
since the convict settle-
ment of sinister mem-
ory was shifted and a
couple of hundred Pit-
cairners arrived to re-
populate the island in
1855. Before that sol-
diers. warders and other
uniformed representa-
tives of authority must
have been present in
hundreds, for there were
periods when there were
as many as 2000 con-
victs in residence, most
of them “doubly con-
victed felons” —Gover-
nor Darling in 1827
casually mentioned that
“his object was to hold
out that settlement as a
place of the extremest
punishment, short of
death.” Since Norfolk l
was transformed from a
sort of pocket hell into
an island Eden, an idea
has been sedulously fos-
tered that, there being
no> crime worth speak-
ing of, there was no
need for constabulary.
But the other day some
miscreant burgled the
Administrator’s safe,
the same being also the
treasury; which seems
to be the reason why
authority, in gleaming buttons and a helmet,
should re-appear after 70 years.
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: The Malabar wreck at
Long Bay (Sydney) left the salvagers who
landed the job out of pocket; there weren't
even wages in it for the workmen who agreed
to go in on a “no profit, no pay” basis.
Rough seas made operations impossible on
many days, during which the vessel and what
was left in it gradually disappeared. It
would have taken an army to collect the
valuable wreckage that was strewn over
many beaches, but the army that did collect
it was not connected with the legal salvage
effort, and the effort to enforce salvage
rights against some of the pillagers pro-
bably only added to the general loss. As an
echo of the unprofitable undertaking a
watchman sued for unpaid wages the other
day, but there being a number of others to
swear that they were all involved on a shares
basis he got nothing.
* # He :; t
“Oxmead”: Fred Watson, editor of the
“Historical Records of Australia,” has been
telling in the “5.M.11.” how most of the
original records of the early history of N. S.
Wales lay for a century or so in a hundred
hessian bags on the rafters beneath the roof
of the Supreme Court building the attic bein°-
“the playground of rats and other vermin’*
In 1912 he obtained permission to examine
and tabulate this vast mass of musty docu-
ments, and a rare treasure trove it proved
Many things, of course, that are irreplace-
able have been destroyed or perished, but in
these matters the Ma State seems to have
been a trifle less culpable and a lot more
lucky than some of its sisters David
Christie Murray, a popular novelist of a
past generation, who once visited Australia,
declared that a Tasmanian Government had
sold whole stacks of its early-day re-
cords, dealing largely with convict his-
tory, for waste-paper, and that skeletons had
been dragged out of family cupboards thereby.
David was not an always reliable commenta-
tor on things Australian, but he adduced
some authority for this, which served him,
incidentally, as a plot for a novel.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: South Africans, especially
the folk of the Cape Eastern Province, will
rejoice in the reported revival of the vogue
for ostrich feathers. The Cape had built
up a huge industry, protected by a thumping
export duty on birds and eggs, and in any
case ostrich-farming never made much pro-
gress in any other country. Then in a night
the human female, who had been carrying
ostrich feathers for centuries, suddenly
decided she had no time for them, and the
A CHILD OF FASHION.
"Your hair is like your mother's, isn’t it?”
"Urn — yes—on her blonde days.”
bottom fell out of the market. The Oudt-
shoorn district, which was the heart of
South African ostrich-farming, was ruined,
and Port Elizabeth, the world’s market for
the feathers, put up most of its shutters. As
the birds were of no value except for their
feathers, thousands were killed; many farm-
ers turned their stocks loose, and the num-
ber of birds dropped from over 1,000,000 to
under 10,000. This is where the farmer may
get some of his own back if the revival lasts,
for good feathers will be scarce and dear for
a long time to come.
* *
“Mako”: Some of those aged Diggers
weren’t as old as they looked. I knew a
man belonging to a black-haired family
whose members are addicted to going snow-
white on top in the early twenties. He was
about 30 when he enlisted. One day, while
carefully negotiating a duck-board in France,
he met the Major face to face. The officer
looked at him hard. “My man,” said he,
kindly, “this is a war for young men. One
of your age should never have been passed.
I must look into your ease.” With that, the
Major, an amiable old gentleman of w r ell
over 50, passed on with a consciousness of
having done his good deed for that day, while
an astounded and very fit young man looked
dazedly after him.
* * *
“Tiddler”: Sydney’s honest man—the sort
that Diogenes used to hunt for with a lan-
tern in the high noon 2200 years ago—
turned up quite unobtrusively the other day.
He noticed a dirty-looking package of paper
lying in a public park, picked it up in a
moment of idle curiosity and investigated it,
discovered its contents were £3OO-odd in bank
notes, and went straight with his find to the
nearest police station. There the valuable
flotsam awaits anybody who can give satis-
factory proof of ownership. As a rule there
is no lack of claimants in these circum-
stances—a package of notes left by some
absent-minded citizen on a bank table a few
months ago was claimed by scores of enter-
prising persons, whose estimates of the
amount that was going begging differed about
as widely as the guesses on a show bullock’s
weight—but apparently there has been no
■such rush to establish ownership of the park
trove. In the upshot it may revert to the
upright man who didn’t consider “findings
keepings”; in law he has a title to it that
can only be upset by the real owner.
* * H! s?
“F.T.” : “A car,” T read in Sydney “D.T.,”
“burst into flames while being filled, and
for half an hour firemen fought desperately
to prevent flames from reaching and explod-
ing the storage tank.” It is a spectacle I used
to anticipate every time I ran my ’bus into
a service station and was attended to by
the usual oil-stained lad with a smouldering
fag dangling from the side of his mouth.
Garage and service-station employees have a
theory, and are always ready to argue it,
that lighted cigarettes are safe in the neigh-
borhood of petrol. The only feasible expla-
nation I can offer is that all those who have
had experience to the contrary are dead.
Sir Thomas Crozier, a former Chief Inspec-
tor of Explosives, told a London society re-
cently that he had actually known of fires
being caused by the vapor from a petrol tank
reaching a distant acetylene light. Since
then, whenever I have driven into a petrol
dump and found a smoker there, I have driven
briskly out again.
■** * *
w.o Tei ' n '.' : .T°. uc hing_ gas casualties (B.
29/7/’3l), it is impossible to ascertain the
number who have died, as the stuff caused
so many internal complaints. T. 8.. kidney and
heart troubles. “2nd Divvy” cites something
he saw at Morlancourt to suggest that
Diggers held it lightly. In May, 1918, I was
with the brigade that captured Ville-Sur-
Ancre. Morlancourt was on our right, in
Hun territory. A month later an Australian
raiding party entered Morlancourt, and next
night the 2nd Division w’as withdrawn, so it
is clear that the front line was a healthv
distance from Morlancourt wdien “2nd
Divvy” was there. The gas put over by
Fritz in that sector was about as innocuous
as that from sodawater. I experienced a
real gas attack on July 22 when we were
holding the front line 'just beyond Villers-
Bretonneux, and Fritz put down a smashing
barrage of shrap., lI.E. and gas. I was one
of the many casualties, and the gas-burns
on some of the wounded were appalling. For
days I was blind, and for weeks my voice was
just a queer kind of whisper, but it was the
heart that suffered most. That was 13 years
ago and neither time nor treatment has
effected a cure.
# si: sj:
“Sebrof” : Old Riflemen would be intrigued
at “Centurion's” statement (B. 15/7/’3l)
that Hanoverian levies at Waterloo were the
basis of what afterwards became The (with
a capital T, please!) Rifle Brigade. Three
battalions of that regiment, dating from
1800, 1805 and 1809, and recruited entirely
in the British Isles, were in existence before
Waterloo. I very much doubt whether these
Hanoverian levies were the “first British
troops armed with rifles” ; that honor goes
either to The Rifle Brigade or The King’s
Royal Rifle Corps.
* * * *
“Windsor” : We’re getting back to barter.
Evidence in a recent case before the Fitzroy
(Melbourne) Court disclosed that “a utility
four-cylinder truck of a well-known make”
had changed hands for £6 10s., the accepted
deposit being £2 and a dog valued at £l. The
purchaser brought the action, his contention
being that the seizure of the truck because
of his inability to continue payments was
illegal. The defendant complained bitterly
that the four-legged portion of the deposit
had been ridiculously over-valued; he further
pointed out that, when compelled to seize the
truck, he had done the fair thing by the
purchaser, putting him on to another car
which he could buy for 255. The Bench
endorsed the seizure of the truck and made
no order about the dog.
* $ *
“Lex”: How many know that, in N. S.
Wales a dog that leaves home without a
collar bearing its owner’s name may be
legally slain on sight? The Dog and Goat
Act says so. A dog-assassin, who had axed
a collie to death, pleaded the Act in
Wollongong the other day, and got away with
it. The provision calls for amendment in
the interests of peace and good order, which
are what laws chiefly exist to maintain. The
modern hound holds a position in some house-
holds akin to that of a child, and one who
wantonly murdered him would stand an
even money chance of suffering, if not. death,
at least “grievous bodily.”
* * * Si!
“Homfrey Beale”: A dinkum specimen of
the loggerhead mentioned by “Dog’s Nose” (B.
5/8/’3l) was to be found in “F” canteen
of the A.I.F. camp at Wareham (Dorset)
in T 7, and did invaluable work that winter
in the preparation of mulled beer and stout.
A barman of Dorchester (four miles away)
claimed that the thing was a family heirloom
which had been pinched. He enlisted the sym-
pathies of a few’ officers, and a couple of
searches of the canteen were made, but they
were fruitless —friendly information always
got in first. Two years later I ran into a
corporal at Weymouth who was in posses-
sion of the implement. As he was a Sydney
man, I’m wondering if it was his logger-
head that “Dog’s Nose’s” friend picked up.
The corporal was a thirsty soul, much
addicted to taking things to pawnshops.
* * * *
“Toro”: The cable tells of a somewhat
embarrassing gift bestowed on Charlie Chap-
lin the other day when he saw his first bull-
fight at San Sebastian in Spain. Following
on the slaying of the bull the matador came
forward and presented the custard-pie king
with the carcase. This nonplussed even the
imperturbable Charles until a friend whis-
pered that it was the customary method of
extracting baksheesh from distinguished
visitors. The film artist thereupon cour-
teously wavfed the proffered beef on one side
and presented the bull-slayer with a valuable
cigarette-case. This he doubtless redeemed
later for cash, according to Spanish eti-
quette in such cases.
THE SAW FOR HARD TIMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These proverbs, precepts, adages and saws
I mostly find unsatisfying fare;
The bird that from such .sources comfort
draws
Is, I should say, exceptionally rare.
The garnered wisdom of the centuries,
The homely truth condensed in tabloid
form.
Nor thirst will slake nor hunger will appease,
Nor keep the man in tattered clothing-
warm.
These aphorisms, plausible or true,
Are mostly greeted with a shrug or yawn,
Yet one might justify a line or two:
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.
1 question if it never be too late
To mend. I cannot reconcile, I find,
The absence - makes - the - heart - grow-fonder
prate
With gags on out-of-sight-and-out-of-mind.
I get no stimulus from being assured
You always ought to look before you leap,
That what’s incurable must be endured,
And they who sow the storm the whirl-
wind reap.
So drab they seem, so smug and circumspect,
These morals from al human history
drawn,
Whereas at least it’s cheering to reflect
The darkest hour is just before the dawn.
’Tis true, however black the shadows lower,
There may be just a little worse in store.
You can’t be sure it is the darkest hour—
It may be two when you would swear it’s
four.
But sursum corda! Let us hope the best,
And of all proverbs coined since Genesis
Preachers and moralists can have the rest
And welcome, if they only leave me this.
Black though the night and thick the veils
that swathe
Mountain and vale and river, street and
lawn,
Herewith the saw whereto I pin my faith:
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists,
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in tearoom
or cafe. Full board
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling _
teams, sporting bodies, etc.
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlvoil’s lintel Slnpnnpv fttvppt AT ol hi'HTi'nr
Please write for
SERVICE
The establishment of a Bank does not in itself establish a Banking
Service. It provides only the machinery which is to be operated by
man for the service of man. The human factor is the vital spark
that gives life to a mere aggregation of buildings, books and currency,
and makes of them a friendly, helpful service for the convenience of
the people.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank extends its facilities throughout
the length and breadth of Australia, through Branches and Post-office
Agencies, and trained officers translate those facilities into understand-
ing human service to the thrifty.
(flommonwcaltb SavmgsJßank of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government.)
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
This is not the first time J. T. Lang and
Ms family connections have been in trouble
over the N.S.W. Savings Bank. Back in the
early ’nineties, when a run was threatened,
McNamara, afterwards Lang’s father-in-law
and political guide, was charged with mak-
ing an incendiary speech (or it may have
been merely suspendiary) about the bank.
The old mail—father, by the way, of the
present secretary of the Communist wing ot
the N.S.W. Labor party—was convicted and
sentenced. He was a gentle old soul, but
terribly in earnest.
Richard G. (“Dicky”) Ardagh, passed out
in Perth at 60, had more say than most in
industrial and political affairs when Labor
was establishing its ascendancy on the West-
ralian goldfields in the early years of the
century. He was secretary of the Trades
Hall, organiser of Eight Hours’ functions,
and manager of the “Westralian Worker
(then a goldfields publication) ; occasionally
he filled in his spare time by editing it. A
handy and likeable little man he had several
shots for Labor Parliamentary nominations
before becoming an M.L.C. in 1912. He held
the seat for a dozen years, though, like his
leader, Scaddan, the late Jabez Dodd and
numerous other Labor stalwarts, he cut
loose from the party in the Conscription
split. Nearly all the early Labor leaders on
the goldfields were easterners; Ardagh came
from Gippsland.
Lewick Baumberg. who died in Sydney
the other day, seems to have been an authen-
ticated centenarian as well as an orthodox
Jew of note; lie was born at Warsaw in
1826 and his descendants ran to great-great-
grandchildren. He had seen pogroms, and
suffered from them, before he came to Aus-
tralia, whither a son and daughter had pre-
ceded him, 40 years ago. Lie had been a
prosperous merchant in his own country;
in his adopted one he was known as a
Hebrew scholar of distinction and a pillar
of the Synagogue.
How a man’s luck turns ! After having
a nice steady job for over 30 years on the
N.S.W. Western Lands Board, Hughie Lang-
well, the chairman, finds a Labor Govern-
ment obviously eager to roast him. A com-
mission appointed to overhaul the adminis-
tration has dragged on so long that Langwell
says he can’t employ counsel any more—
his funds are exhausted. Yet Hughie was
once a Labor M.L.A., and got a seat on the
board as a reward for Labor services. Inci-
dentally, luck had a say in that, too. The job
had been cut out for W. J. Ferguson, one of
the brightest members the party ever had;
but he talked out of his turn, and so had to
be disciplined.
Charles Hardy, leader of the Riverina
(N.S.W.) movement and chairman of the
newly-formed United Country party in
N.S.W.. was unknown outside Wagga six
CHARLES HARDY III.
months ago. He was very well known
there; in fact, he is the third Charles that
every dog in those parts wags a tail at. His
grandfather started the business which the
present political' crusader and his dad run
together. They are builders, and make their
own bricks and run their own sawmill, and
have fingers in many other pies. Charles
111. was born in Wagga 32 years ago, was
schooled there, and at 18 left to go to the
war. He returned a restive young man with
a large desire to be up and doing. He found
scope for his energy in helping to rejuvenate
the family business. When the Riverma
cockies began to get fed up with government
from Sydney they picked upon this wide-
shouldered young man to be their leader, and
his name has not been out of the headlines
ever since. He married a Riverina girl, and
has a promising family.
A record in country journalism that nobody
is likely to challenge is claimed by H'arrie
Banfield, of the Ararat (Vic.) “Advertiser,”
who has just retired after 67 years’ service.
During the whole of that period he reported
the doings of the Ararat shire council with-
out a break. The veteran is 84.
Sir Charles James Martin, chief of the
Animal Nutrition division of the Common-
wealth Council for Scientific and Industrial
Professor Sir CHARLES MARTIN.
Research in Melbourne, who was brought
from England early this year, is no stranger
to these parts. Forty years ago he was a
demonstrator in physiology at Sydney Uni-
versity. He was then in his middle twenties
and had not long completed a brilliant career
at King’s College, London, and the Univer-
sity of Leipzig. In 1901 he was Melbourne
University’s physiology professor and two
years later was sailing home again to take
over the directorship of the Lister Institute
of Preventive Medicine, which he retained
until the end of last year. Whilst there he
was a member of the advisory committee for
the investigation of plague in India, which
country he visited to marshal the forces
against the microbes which were killing the
population by the million. Some of his
most important work has been done in con-
nection with anti-typhoid inoculation, and
for three years he was in charge of a War-
office committee that was fighting to reduce
the disease. During the war he was Lieut.-
Col. in the A.A.M.C. and a consulting patho-
logist to the A.I.F. He served in Gallipoli,
Egypt, Palestine and France.
The Westralian Leg. Council lost a know-
ledgeable member, with a store of mining and
engineering experiences gathered in many
parts of the world, in the late Hector
Stewart. He was born at Windsor (Vic.)
57 years ago, and studied mining, metallurgy
and kindred subjects at Melbourne Uni. and
Ballarat School of Mines. Later he went
to Glasgow Uni. to delve into economic
geology. He had a string of diplomas and
had managed various mining enterprises in
Africa as well as this country before he
settled at Wagin (W.A.) and turned his
attention to wheat-growing. The south-east
province sent him to the State Parliament
14 years ago.
W. J. Young, generally known as “Young
of Elder’s” to distinguish him from Adelaide’s
other prominent men of the same name, has
resigned his post as chairman of the Finance
Advisory Committee of S.A., suggesting that
the main work has been done and is merged
in the Premiers’ Plan for all Australia.
Butler, Opposition leader, for once joins
with Premier Hill in acknowledging the
great work Young has done since the Elder
Smith Co. was induced to release him to the
State in June last year. H'is colleagues are
Melville. Prof, of Economics; Stuckey,
Under-Treasurer; Ilunkin, Public Service
Commissioner; and Wainwright, of the Audit
office.
11. F. Broadbent, a young Sydney Aero
Club pilot, made some Australian flying his-
tory last week when he flew his Ayro Avian
’plane from Brisbane to Adelaide 10-0
miles —in 18 hours. Leaving _ Brisbane
shortly after midnight, he landed in Sydney
at 6.55, was at Melbourne early in the after-
noon and reached Adelaide at 6.30 p.m.
(N.S.W. time). Only 21, Broadbent some
time ago attempted a flit from London to
Australia, but crashed in Turkey, llis next
stunt is to be a seven-day round-Australia
flight. He gets the money for his hobby
from the estate of Harry Rickards, the old
Tivoli chief. , T ,
Koani Miki, who died in the Papuan
village of Porebada recently, had a life story
more interesting than most. He was a child
at Elevala when the London Missionary
Societv arrived, before the coming of the
big-fellow Government. Playing with other
boys one day he accidentally caused the
death of one of his companions. Koani was
forthwith grabbed by the enraged relatives
of the dead boy, who were on the point of
braining him by way of “payback” when mis-
sionary Chalmers, afterwards eaten at
Goaribari by the natives, rescued him and
gave him sanctuary. Koani joined the mis-
sion as one of its first Papuan teachers, and
had put in 42 years’ service before retiring
in 1930. He had a wide circle of acquaint-
ances among brown and white alike, and
great influence among his fellow Motuans.
In a recent Sunday newspaper Billy
Hughes retold in sprightly fashion the story
of how he first struck Sydney with halt
a crown in his pocket, secured a job in a
George-street hash-house and lost it the same
day. Which recalls that some years ago
when “Happv Jack” Scaddan was Labor
Premier of Westralia, and Parliament was
engaged in its periodical job of raising
salaries, that worthy introduced the same
coin into a vignette dealing with his early
struggles as a private member. Scaddan
drew a picture of himself arriving on the
Golden Mile to address his constituents with
exactly two and sixpence to call his own,
and a haunting doubt as to where his next
meal was coming from unless some enthusi-
astic supporter should shout it for him.
Still, “Happy” might have got credit at a
pinch and his gold pass provided free rail-
way travelling, so his plight obviously wasn’t
as desperate as William’s. Also the season
of plenty was much closer ahead: within five
years the ex-enginedriver was Premier.
John Charles Wright, Anglican Archbishop
of Sydney, is 70 to-day. The tall, ruudy-
faced Lancashire man with the cherubic
smile was ordained in 1885 and had become
canon of Manchester Cathedral when Syd-
ney selected him as the successor of William
Saumarez (“Bobeab”) Smith. This was
in 1909. The Archbishop’s reign has been
mostly a calm, uneventful one. His only
trouble has been with the Ritualists, and
they failed to prevent him from having his own
way; his Grace is a confirmed Low Church-
man, and has made Sydney the most solid
Archbishop WRIGHT—70 to-day.
Low Church diocese in the Commonwealth.
His pronouncements, unlike those of his
Roman Catholic contemporary, Archbishop
Kelly, are seldom featured in the press,
except, of course, his annual outburst against
the opening of the Sydney Royal Agricul-
tural Show on Good Friday. He has still
another five years to go to beat Bishop
Barker’s record of 27 years in the job.
Dr. Edward Lodewyk Crowther, who
passed out in Hobart the other day, prac-
tised there for over half a century. As a
side-line he sat for 30 years in the Leg.
Assembly. The inclination for politics was
in the blood; the doctor’s father, William
Lodewyk Crowther was Premier of the
Speck a bit over 50 years ago. He lasted
only ten months; that was a period when
Tas. Ministries came and went very rapidly.
These days when the bank manager is
liable to look coldly on the would-be voyager
abroad the men whose job it is to sing the
praises of scenery and climate nearer home
FRED EMMERSON, Queensland’s new
tourist officer in Melbourne.
are getting great encouragement. Pushing
their work in the south, the Queensland rail-
ways have sent one of their most energetic
northern officers —Fred Emmerson, of Towns-
ville —to take up a strategic position in the
Vic. Tourist Bureau in Queen’s-walk, Mel-
bourne.
The New T Guinea jungle gave up one of
its secrets recently when the body of the
missing airman L. J. Trist, who failed to
return to the aerodrome at Lae some three
months ago, was found beside his shattered
plane in the jungle-covered mountains. Trist,
who was only 32, was a N.S.W. native and
an experienced bii'dman, with 13 years of
service. Originally a sergeant in the
R.A.A.F., he took part with Group-Captain
Williams in an exploratory flight over New
Guinea and the Solomons in 1927, starting
from Melbourne, and for this received the
Air Force medal. In 1928 he went to New
Guinea as a pilot for Guinea Airways, and
was flying one of their ’planes when he
crashed.
Dave Nolan, Sydney’s electric-power sup-
erintendent, who has been incurring the
■wrath of certain city aldermen for his
alleged criticisms of their shortcomings, is
a broad-shouldered and square-jawed young-
man of 33 who lias a phenomenal record of
rapid promotion in the electrical engineering
world. Victorian-born, he was one of Clapp’s
bright young men, and rose from apprentice to
fully-fledged engineer in less than a decade.
He had overseas experience with General
Electric and the big firm of McLellan and
Junkersfield. On his return lie and W. H.
Saw T yer were appointed to investigate and
report on the financial and engineering
affairs of the Vic. State Electricity Commis-
sion. Three years ago Nolan secured the
£lOOO-a-year billet of superintendent of the
Pyrmont and Bunnerong power stations.
Hector MacQuarrie, who with R. B.
Matthews has just completed a world ramble
in a Baby Austin, claims to come of the
same stock as the famous Lachlan, but in-
sists that his spelling of the family name
is the right on£. MacQuarrie came from
Maoriland to a billet on the Sydney
daily press, but soon tired of the mono-
tony of rounds, and hit on the idea of
motoring adventures which could be written
up for advertising purposes. His first was
a trip in a Baby car to Cape York and back,
which furnished material for an entertain-
ing book. The venture just completed nearly
had an early finish; the travellers began
their itinerary on the Tahiti, and the car
they started with went down with that
vessel.
F. G. White, who has been representing
British and Continental buyers of ore at
Broken Hill for £O-odd years and is one of
the town’s sizzling wires, has been lately giv-
ing some of his enthusiasm to oil shale. Broken
Hill is interested chiefly in Baeramie, out-
side Muswellbrook; and that show and a
second in which another old Broken H'ill
mine director, Hal Sheppard, is interested,
are carrying on joint work with Government
assistance. Among 97 other things, White
is president of the Broken Hill Golf Club.
The yarn is that the job was the prize for
the worst player when the club opened, and
that he has held it against all-comers ever
since—l 2 years.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 12 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in moithly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
ď
Here’s the Belt for
Difficult Drives
Chromol Leather Belting will soon tame that trouble-
some drive in your plant. It has no equal for long
and dependable service under constant shock loads;
it is weatherproof, steamproof and does not slip.
Let us show you how to get more efficient trans-
mission for every type of drive.
CHROMOL
DRMNC^BELT
MANUFACTURED AND GUARANTEED BY
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney,
and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street,
South Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: HOEY FRY, LTD., 170 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: J. McKELL & SONS, 129 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: MR. HORACE SUMMERS, 9-11 HOWARD STREET PERTH
TASMANIA: CHAS. DAVIS, LTD., 60 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART
NEW ZEALAND: G. W. ARNOLD, LTD., A.M.P. CHAMBERS, WELLINGTON.
EXPLOSIVES
ALL KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
Jto-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends, Written Re-
June, Profits. Ordinaries.* Off. serves
£ £ £ £
Premiums on new shares, £106,659.. [ „ 00
1921.. 237,772 15 p.c. = 11,014 251,659 J
Premiums on new shares, £134,275.. ( ono
1922.. 228,080 15 p.c. = 37,773 211,001 j
Premiums on new shares, £14,934.. 1 ... ~ a „
1923.. 234,418 15 p.c. = 52,081 10,000 j 144,/8b
Premiums on new shares, £158,051.. { ... ...
1924.. 264,542 15 p.c. = 57,732 10,000 j 414,«54
Premiums on new shares, £233,876.. [ „„„ r ~ n
1925.. 300,536 15 p.c. = 87,102 10,000 j
Premiums oh new shares, £204,917.. I .
1926.. 319,707 15 p.c.-119,359 20,000 J
Premiums on new shares, £233,328.. 1,299,469
1927.. 341,711 15 p.c. =149,726 25,000 1,381,760
Premiums on new shares, £254,338.. 1,636,098
1928.. 355,019 15 p.c. =185,937 30,000 1,690,486
Premiums on new shares, £250,212.. 1,940,698
1929.. 391,624 15 p.c. =223,438 30,000 1,994,190
Premiums on new shares, £237,149.. 2,231,339
1930.. 389,841 15 p.c. =260,937 20,000 2,255,549
Premiums on new shares, i£76,600.. 2,332,149
1931.. 308,450 111 p.0.=220,569 20,000 2,316,336
*Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
.Since 1920 shareholders have put up
£3,808,682, of which one-half was capital
and the other half premiums. The premiums
were added to reserves, which had climbed
to £2,315,336 at June 30. Paid capital was
then £4,117.350—it includes £2,117,350 of
4 p.c. pref. money, a legacy of the ’nineties.
Ord. divs., therefore, are worth only half
the declared rate on most of that capital.
But expansion has been checked, and so
have earnings. There was an all-round con-
traction of the co.’s figures last year, due
to the sharp fall in the national income,
which dealt a smashing blow to security
values and trade, and threw the public
accounts so badly askew that the Govern-
ments have, amongst other things, pushed
taxation to the point of diminishing re-
turns. So, after paying the tax bill and
providing for contingencies, there was a
slip of £79,011 in the co.’s gross profits last
year:—•
Gross Profits.* Salaries. Other Charges.
1919 .. £405,071 £170,558 £64,245
1923 . . 676,210 336,076 105,715
1925 . . 854,836 406,044 149,256
1927 . . 992,451 478,533 172,207
1928 . . 1,056,244 523,484 177,741
1929 . . 1,138,028 560,009 186,395
1930 . . 1,157,784 584,559 183,384
1931 . . 1,078,773 597,342 172,981
*Less taxes and provision for contingencies.
Thus, after allowing for the pref. requirements
(£84,694), enough remained to show 11.4
p.c. on the ord. capital, and the final div. was
dropped to 10 p.c. p.a., making 11£ p.c.
for the year. The pref. requirements and 10
p.c. to the ords. will call for 4.4 p.c. on
total funds at June 30 (capital and re-
serves combined). Disclosed earnings were
4.7 p.c. last year as against 6.5, 7.1 and
7.9 p.c. for the three preceding terms, and
further contraction seems likely. Hence
the 10s. ords., which fetched 30s. in the
market two years ago, are now priced at
16s. The return at the lower figure is 6.2
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis; but lighter
exchange and other earnings, the pressure
of expensive fixed deposits and a growing
amount of overdue paper make the future
very doubtful. It will remain so until a
restoration of confidence permits employment
of capital on the basis of lower costs.
To meet the year’s shrinkage of £1,311,450
in deposits, and £473,925 in the bills figures,
the board drew upon liquids for £366,511
and reduced the book value of advances by
£1,416,674:
Liabilities.
1929. 1930. 1931.
Notes .. .. £244,027 £230,138 £184,082
Bills, etc. . . 1,717,110 1,635,677 1,161,752
Free deposits .. 10,182,121 8,223,513 7,263,707
Fixed deposits.. 13,998,925 13,941,722 13,590,078
Assets,
Liquid assets .. 8,933,551 8,772,427 8,405,916
Advances . . 22,260,876 20,677,615 19,260,841
Premises .. 904,300 1,054,910 1,107,895
The contraction in the note issue is due
largely to the special tax thereon in Maori-
land. When the books closed 37.8 p.c. of
the liabilities to the public were in liquids,
including £1,300,000 of Commonwealth short
Treasury bills and £910,493 of other Aus-
tralian Government paper. Also the bank
was holding only £3 9s. of outside money
for every pound of its own. That is a satis-
factory position, but means moderate earn-
ing power.
At £6 6s. the £lO paid prefs. yield 6.4
p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The year’s profit
was over 3J times their annual require-
ments.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
i Reserves
Transferred
June, Profits. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
1921.. 15,310 10 p.c. = 14,989 65,439
1922.. 30,154 10 „ „ 14,995 15,000 65,595
1923.. 40,835 10 ~ „ 16,500 15,000 74,930
1924.. 40,923 10 „ „ 18.000 20,000 77,853
1925.. 41,180 10 „ „ 20,000 20,000 79,033
1926.. 43.600 10 „ „ 22,000 20,000 80,633
1927.. 54,141 10 „ ~24,000 15,000 ( s -
Taxation Reserve, £10,000.. ..)
1928.. 49,153 10 p.c. = 25,500 20,000 89,427
1929.. 57,453 10 „ „ 27,500 15,000 104,380
1930.. 24,909 7i „ 21,740 107,549
1931.. 23,412 7-J „ „ 21,745 . ' 109,216
The heavy fall in prices has caused a sharp
shrinkage in the commission earnings of this
soundly-established stock- and station-
agency and wool- and produce-broking con-
cern. Thus, although the business has held
well, gross profits from trading fell from
£163,338 for the 12 months to the close of
accounts of 1929 to £94,837 for the last
term, when the slip was £20.567. Of this
£18,507 was offset by savings in exes.
(£82,198, including £12,000 set aside for
taxation). Interest on fixed deposits brought
in £10,773 (=3.7 p.c. on capital), so the net
result was only £1497 lighter than the pre-
vious year’s at S p.c. on capital as against
8.4. 20.9, 19.3, 22.5, 19.8 and 20.5 p.c. back
to 1925, and the div. was kept at 74 p.c.
Divs. averaged 10.5 for the 22 years to
the close of accounts in 1929, and were
sweetened with no less than £235,000 of
bonus scrip, the distribution of which had
become an annual event. But those days
have gone, and they are not likely to return ;
moreover, the 74 p.c. distribution cannot be
regarded as secure. On the basis of last
year’s figures a cut of 1 p.c. in bank deposit
rates would reduce the net return on capital
to 7.3 p.c. Results will be governed largely
by the extent to which exes, can be restrained,
and the task has been made vastly more diffi-
cult by the mounting load of taxation.
However, the co. is in the fortunate posi-
tion of being able to return two-thirds of its
capital should the necessity arise, and, of
course, to take immediate advantage of any
trading opportunity that offers. Surplus
earnings that could not be re-employed in the
business have been invested on fixed deposit,
£202,625 having thus accumulated at the
close of last accounts: —
1920. 1925. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £200,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdrafts .. 5,912 325,057 769 22,972
Other liabilities 43,258 34,632 85,253 27,738
Freeholds, etc. 125,092 149,286 162,758 162,229
Advances, etc. 98,943 378,186 141,068 107,947
Liquid assets 50,000 141,250 202,625 202,625
Though a lot of attention has been recently
given to the pastoral finance side of the
business, movements in the figures since
1925 suggest that the bulk of the advances
have been against wool and other readily
saleable products. Last year debtors’ balances
were reduced by £33,111, and £35,312 net
was clipped off the debt, leaving the more or
less liquid surplus (£259,862) £2201 stronger
than at the previous balance.
On the market the pound shares, which
fetched 455. two years ago, sank to par
12 months later, but have since advanced to
255. The return at the latter figure is 6 p.c.
on a 74 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
275. 7d., of which 17s. lid. is surplus liquids.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
June, £ £ £ £
1922.. 123,772 10 p.c. = 87,720 1„„ „„„ „„„
Provident Fund, £lO.OOO J 26,052 637,289
Internal reserves disclosed, £109,650.. 746 939
1923.. 161,006 124 p.c. = 109,650 1 o= fi 7R o 9Q =
Provident Fund, £15,000 ( J 0,356 *83,295
Reserves capitalised, £109,650 .. 673,645
Premiums on new shares, £11.440 .. 685,085
1924.. 206,994 10 p.c. = 109,342 ) Q 9 ft - 9 777707
Provident Fund. £5OOO f 92 ’ 652 777 > 737
Premiums on new shares, £16,000.. 793,737
1925.. 205,151 10 p.c. = 133,200 71,951 865,688
1926.. 214,058 10 „ „ 161,040 53,018 918,706
1927.. 223,123 10 „ „ 175,680 47,443 966,149
Premiums on new shares, £98,110.. 1,064,259
1928.. 252,346 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,351 1,111,610
Premiums on new shares, £115,044.. 1,226,654
1929.. 227,106 10 p.c. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
1930.. 128,724 5 „ ~ 119,682 9,042 1,254,700
1931.. 99,820 4 „ „ 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
In their fight against the worst drought that
had scarred the land since the beginning of
this century the pastoralists of S. Aus. and
the West Darling piled up overdrafts for
three and in some cases five years in suc-
cession ; and Elder Smith came largely to
their aid. The drought broke early in 1930;
it was followed by the collapse of prices, and
therefore of earnings, while costs remained
obstinate, thus freezing many of the advances
hard, and making necessary a revision of
security values; though it is difficult to put
“a reasonable value” on any property at the
moment.
For the 12 months to June 30 wool aver-
aged but £8 12s. 7d. per bale in Adelaide
as against £ll 3s. 2d., l7s. 3d. and
£2l 16s. 2d. for the three preceding seasons.
Also the clip was lighter; thus the State’s
wool cheque, which was £5,258,000 in 1927-
28, shrank to £1.501,000 last year, when the
contraction was £613,000. So, after making
provision for bad and doubtful debts, and
striking £11,116 off the book value of pre-
mises, the board put the eo.’s gross profits
£110,435 short of the 1930 figure, or £274,470
less than the peak earnings of three years
ago:
Paid Gross
Capital. Profits. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1915 .. 400,000 172,386 102,438
1920 .. 877,200* 462,451 318,476
1924 .. 1,200,000 f 585,196 378,202
1926 .. 1.756,800 652,260 438,202
1928 .. 2,050,320 733,162 480,816
1929 .. 2,393,640 704,286 477,180
1930 .. 2,393,640 569,121 440,397
1931 .. 2,393,640 458,686 358,866
* Includes £120,000 of reserves capitalised from here,
flpcludes £229,650 of reserves capitalised from here.
A saving of £81,531 in exes, left the net
result at 4.1 p.e. on capital as against 5.3,
10.9. 12.3. 12.7, 13.3 and 15.4 p.c. back to
1925. The persistent slip there is due
partly to the fall in prices and partly to the
inflow of new capital.
The final div. was reduced to 3 p.c. p.a.,
making 4 p.c. fcr the year. The rate had
been steady at 10 p.c. (with a bit extra in
the fat periods) for 24 years to the close of
accounts in 1929. But the precarious state
of Europe leaves the future of wool prices
in the lap of the gods, though the spring in
exchange, stronger competition, especially
from Japan, promise of a little relief in
interest rates and satisfactory seasonal pros-
pects have taken some of the gloom out of
the picture. Much will depend upon how
pliable costs become.
The co. is well ribbed financially, and
special provisions have been made for such
a situation as has now arisen, the chairman
says. Here is the co.’s position as balance-
sheet figures disclose it: —
1920. 1926. 1930. 1931.
£ £ £ £
Deposits,
etc. .. 2,201,305 1,971,052 1,751,034 1,482,899
Other lia-
bilities .. 05,587 73,331 25,134 1,916
Property, pre-
mises, plant
etc. .. 278,598 446,622 507,759 558,174
Government
stock and
cash .. 1,456,515 1,284,421 965,778 723,368
A d v a nces,
etc. . . 2,016,536 3,110,943 4,101,221 4,085,616
Other assets 62,630 158,317 64.240 58,155
To meet the withdrawal of £268,135 of
deposits, etc., and a reduction of £23,218 in
other liabilities the board drew upon liquids
for £242,410; advances were reduced by only
£15,605. Depositors and others, excluding
the provident fund (£252,189), could see
9s. 9d. of every 20s. coming to them in cash
and readily realisable securities at June 30.
The balance was covered by advances with
a book value of £5 Bs. 10d., and premises,
which cost £630,702, in at £518,126.
On the market the £lO shares paid to £6
are priced at £5 Bs. 3d, The return at that
figure is 3.3 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis, or
5.5 p.c. should the distribution be lifted
to 5 p.c. The net tangible cover is 30s. 6d.
per pound of paid capital.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £25,612 .. 25,612
1927.. 4,949 Nil 4,949 20,663
1928.. 35.866 Nil 35,866 15,203
1929.. 47,268 8 p.c. = 33,936 13,332 28,535
1930.. 47,872 8 „ ~ 34,690* 13,182 41,717
1931.. 39,451 5-$„ „ 27,459 11,992 53,709
‘lncludes 1 p.e. on deferreds.
The works, capable of turning out 100,000
tons of cement annually, are on the Mudgec
line, 150-odd miles from Sydney. They
were put up nearly five years ago, a contract
with the Government having been secured.
This ran out in September last, but another
was entered into for the supply of 65,000
tons p.a. for three years. So, despite the
rapid evaporation of outside orders during
the 12 months to June 30, and after strik-
ing off the usual £25,000 for depreciation,
the board was able to show a profit £8421
short of the previous year’s at 7.9 p.c. on
capital as against 9.5, 9.4 and 7.1 p.c. for
the three preceding terms. But 21 points
were sliced off the div., reducing ft to 51
p.c.; 75,000 deferred shares automatically
became ords. at the close of accounts in 1930,
divs. having aggregated more than 15 p.c.
The figures got askew at the start owing
to the unexpectedly heavy cost of equipment,
which has not yet been called upon to do all
that it is capable of. Still, a substantial
portion of the earnings has been kept in
the business, thus enabling £140,974 to be
lopped off the debt during the last four years,
reducing it £28,274 at June 30—the figure
includes provision for taxation :—•
1927. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £466,691 £499,257 £499,257
Creditors .. .. 169,248 49,764 28,274
Freeholds and plant .. 522,335 497,235 473,024
Shares in other cos. .. 35,009 35,009 35 009
Stores and stocks .. 35,774 41,351 50,160
Book debts and cash .. 22,160 3 4,864 38,024
Last year’s surplus earnings, including the
allowance for depreciation, enabled £21.490
to be snipped off the debt, and the more or
less liquid surplus (£59,910) improved
£33,459. Shares in other cos. are the hold-
ing in Kandos-Coomber colliery.
Now that expenditure on public works,
especially road-making, and activity in thn
construction trades has been brought up
with a round turn, the outlook for the over-
capitahsed cement industry bristles with
difficulties. Hence the market prices this
co. s pound shares at 7s. Gd., at which figure
the return is 16 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
The backing is 225. 2d. in net tangibles,
mainly plant, etc., worth what it can earn.
Intercolonial Investments, Land and
Building Co. (Sydney)
Profits. . Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
40,005 8 p.c. '25,098 14,907 109,022
1922.. 39,931 8 „ „ 25,098 14,833 124,455
June,
* 923 -- ,£’ 993 8 » ..16,732 9.261 133.716
}nn-" ??’ 282 8 .. .. 25,098 15,184 148,900
1" 2 2-- 4.0,168 8* „ „ 26.607 13,491 162,391
I® 2 ®-• 41,350 91 „ „ 29.803 11,553 173,944
1® 2 (• • 42,317 10 „ „ 31,372 10,945 184,889
!® 2B -- 45,058 10 „ „ 31,372 13,686 198,575
1929.. 45,946 10 „ „ 31,372 14,574 213,149
J 930.. 43,006 10 „ „ 31,372 11,634 224,783
To realty depreciation reserve, £35,000.. 189,783
1931.. 23,798 61 p.c. - 20,392 3,406 193,189
The sag in the year’s gross profits (£55,658)
was £7823, but exes. (£34,860) were £11,385
heavier, due to the spring in rates and taxes,
so the net result fell away to 7.5 p.c. on
capital compared with 13.7, 14.9, 14.3, 13.4
and 13.2 p.c. back to 1926. The final div.
was at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a., making 61
p.c. for the year. The average for the last
decade was 8.8 p.c., and, after specially ear-
marking £35,000 to protect the book value
of assets, £83,567 was visibly put in the
cupboard, raising the free accumulations to
£193,189 at June 30. Paid capital
(£313,724) includes £247,266 of bonus scrip
scattered during the 10 years to the close
of accounts in 1920.
But these performances were achieved
under exceptional circumstances, and are
therefore no guide whatever to the future.
Results will very largely depend upon how
much of the co.’s funds may become tied up
in unproductive properties, owing to the
inability of purchasers to maintain pay-
ments. The Moratorium Act, though pro-
bably preventing the collection of some in-
stalments at the moment, may help to stab-
ilise property values in the long run. The
’nineties and some recent experiences show
that chief danger lies in the investment of
borrowed funds in fixed assets —land and
buildings. Hence the investor needs to
watch (1) that borrowings are small and
a good amount of liquids held against them;
(2) that advances are not suddenly in-
creased by a large sum—it is mostly the
new loan that gives the greatest trouble.
Last year £2038 was lopped off the debt,
reducing it to £15,178, which was covered
one and a half times by cash alone
(£22.488) :
Property Cash
and and In-
Liabilities. Advances. Premises, vestments.
1915.. £49,324 £224,499 £57,947 £6,863
1920.. 25,947 289,499 84,740 86,896
1923.. 20,098 368,737 73,854 56,378
1924.. 25,044 379,429 94,786 54,103
1925.. 18,428 405,333 81,379 44,271
1926.. 18,088 412,463 55.185 47,694
1927.. 32,739 466,870 74,726 33,941
1928.. 22,633 466,641 74,834 37,843
1929.. 21,984 480,369 67,412 45,411
1930.. 17,216 460,723 84,440 52,796
1931.. 15,178 428,543 93,558 81,252
Repossessions, if any, appear to have been
moderate. Advances shrank £32,180, and
£9llB was added to the property item. Mostly
the money that became available during the
year was placed outside the business; cash
and public securities (£70,086) were
strengthened by £17,290, and a new item,
“shares in other cos.,” appears at £11,166.
Incidentally, at April 30, 1892, after
which shareholders went hungry for a while,
the co. was carrying liabilities nearly twice
the size of its paid capital, and nearly four
times greater than the outside liabilities
at June 30. At this latter date disclosed
reserves, including the amount set aside for
depreciation, were equal to 14s. 6d. per £1
of paid capital, or Bs. 9d. in the £ of fixed
assets and advances combined. That is to
say, the book value of these assets could
shrink 43.7 p.C; before the share capital
would be in danger. At 21s. the fully-paids
return 5.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ-
ten Towards De-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ficii.
£ c£ d£
1921.. 27,768 10 p.c. = 13,559 2837 11,372 7,764
1922.. 23,669 10 „ ~ 15,313 2728 5,628 2,136
Reserves.
1923.. 20,034 9 „ „ 13,781 2761 3,492 1,356
1924.. 17,297 8 „ „ 12,832 2709 1,756 3,112
1925.. 15,966 71 „ „ 12,421 3351 194 3,306
Profit on sale of property, £8856 . . 12,162
1926.. 19,537 9 p.c. = 14,905 3807 825 12,987
1927.. 26,004 10 „ „ 16,561 3951 5,492 18,479
1928.. 21,625 10 „ ~16,561 3703 1,361 19.840
1929.. 17,641 8 „ „ 13,250 3683 708 20,54 S
1930.. 15,145 7 „ „ 11,594 3290 261 20,809
1931.. 10,642 4 „ „ 6,625 3023 994 21,803
This energetic vendor of tobaccos, haircuts
and sporting goods runs a chain of shops.
(Continued on page 16.)


Evidence
B 1 \(K—•' WHITE
“ 1 scoTcnVkm%
V
m
.
- m
i
■
HI
black
AND
WHITE
W 4
BUCHANAN*
& LONDON
jT By
WtstMers io tf.M. the
4 */>e PRINCE
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
SCOTCH WHISKY
BUCK A WHITE
**&**7#niss **«»* **#*
SPECIAL BLEND
CHOICE OLD scotch whisky
Scotch whisky distiu* rS
&USGOW l LONDON
Slivlf DfSflUiK Y, MDLBEN. S?
CONTENTS I BINT 6 TIUID
The first appreciative sip
tells you that here indeed
is "a special blend ol
choice old Scotch Whisky”
and the case for Black
& White is complete.
Bottled under Supervision of the Commonwealth Customs


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OP AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Purchasers and Refiners of
GOLD and GOLD ORES, SILVER and SILVER ORES, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION, COPPER ORES, COPPER PRECIPITATES, SCRAP COPPER,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper. “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of
the Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street,
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney,' Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, SEND YOUR GOLD BY POST (INSURED) TO ANY OF OUR OFFICES.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Tire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc..
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The
Conversion
Loan
The thousand and one
questions which arise out
of the Conversion scheme
are answered in
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
FOR AUGUST
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22. 8.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
ConSdens: There, is nothing for a broker
to d0....H.J.: (1) The co. is 36 years old and
quite sound. (2) Depends entirely upon whether it
meets your requirements... .C.P.H.: (1) In N.Q.,
about 30 p.c. (2) Payable in Australia. .. .A.W.D.:
(1) A gamble, of course. (2) No liability on any
bank share can safely be disregarded. (3) Future
too obscure for the moment. Play for safety....
J.C.H.L.: Its profits go out of Australia; but it is
one of the world’s strongest... .F.T.C.: Nothing is
sure; but their prospects seem better than most.
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Adyt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
t- if * *
Costing considerably less than metal pipe—and
with a record of absolute efficiency under all condi-
tions of service, Pioneer Wood Pipe is the cheapest
and most economical conduit you can specify. Its
use ensures trouble-free service, and cuts down such
costs as freight, handling, transporting and laying
to the absolute minimum. Definitely non-corrosive
and unaffected by heat, frost or electrolysis. Send
for particulars to the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt,
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES-
7ho Standard oi Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety *u99
Detonators
Cartridges
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 44 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital ar.d Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests.
Our explanatory Booklet , sent free on
request , will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
and has strong connections with suburban
retailers. In its first dozen years a steady
10 p.c. div. was sweetened with £40,625 of
bonus sci’ip. But price-paring became en-
demic, the co. went into debt to finance pro-
perty purchases, and, though the business
continued to expand, profits and divs. have
oscillated during the last decade, as the
figures in the table show.
Last year, of course, there was a sharp
contraction in turnovei*, rent receipts were
lighter and gross profits (£125,606) slipped
£20.931. But exes. (£117,987) were got
back £16,696, despite the growth in income
taxation and the extra cost of keeping sales-
tax records, etc. So after striking off £3023
for depreciation (it is included with profits
and then noted as written off in the table),
there was enough to show 4.6 p.c. on capital
as against 7.1, 8.4, 10.8 and 13.3 p.c. back
to 1927, and a 4 p.c. div. was paid, making
the average distribution 8.2 p.c. over the last
decade.
Owing to the proposed re-alignment of
George-street, Haymarket, the co. has been
unable to make the best use of some of its
freeholds, which were subject to mortgages
totalling £133,476 at June 30: —
1919. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £llO,OOO £166,146 £166,008 £166,008
Liabilities .. 37,313 142,680 252,133 237,922
Freeholds .. 130,048 216,397 211,948
Plant, etc. .. 20,277 24,795 21,859 23,910
Stocks.. .. 99,287 119,743 144,980 140,939
Book debts .. 21,861 49,438 60,081 50,570
Cash, etc. .. 6,371 6,898 602 1,678
To reduce the overdraft (£17,462) by £4413
and the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£86,894) by £9299, stocks, a promiscuous
lot, and book debts, a troublesome item these
days, were worked down £13,552. Thus the
excess of liabilities over more or less liquids
(£44,745) was £1725 lighter than at the
previous balance.
On the mai-ket the pound shares fetch
125., at which price the return is 6.6 p.c.
on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 225.
6d. in net tangibles, all freehold.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests
Holders of forestry bonds sold by N. Z.
Perpetual Forests, Ltd., are perplexed about
a resolution which their trustee, the Aus-
tralasian Forestry Bondholders’ Trust Co.,
Ltd., has asked them to agree to. It reads
as follows: —
That the Trust Co. is hereby empowered to accept
transfers of the land and forests comprised in the
first and second issues of bonds for realisation pur-
poses, and to take all such steps necessary, incidental
and precedent, as in the opinion of the directors
are or may be of advantage or assistance in pi’e-
paration for and actual realisation of the said areas
by any method, in any class of security, and upon
such terms as the Trust Co. thinks fit, including
and without limiting the co.’s power, the carrying
out of research, obtaining reports by experts, and
the appointment of agents for sale. The expense
of carrying into effect this resolution, excepting the
cost of the said transfer, is deemed to be a sales
expense, and to be deducted, on an acreage basis,
from the first proceeds of realisation.
The matter is of such importance, the chair-
man of the Trust Co. says, that those who
fail to record their vote shall be deemed to
have voted for the resolution, and the work
proposed will be pressed forward accord-
ingly. Whether the transfer of the free-
holds concerned can be legally effected on
such an assumption is very questionable
indeed; moreover, the circular does not
say on what date the ballot closes. But the
Forestry Co. undertook to redeem its first
issue bonds at par plus 5 p.c. interest; a
strong demand in this connection might
prove inconvenient at the moment, which
may help to explain the urgency of the
transfers.
But what bondholders have to decide is
whether they will make these transfers and
give their trustee, whose special duty it is
to look after their interests, the wide powers
asked for. In the circumstances something
of the sort is necessary if funds to finance
the search for markets and to convert the
forests into saleable products are to be
obtained without difficulty. Broadly the
position is that the Forestry Co. sold bonds
covering acre lots in Maoriland at £25, or
more according to the embellishment of the
paper. It undertook (1) to transfer the
freehold to the trustee for the bondholders,
(2) to plant an acre with softwood trees for
each bond sold, (3) to care for the forests
until realised at the discretion of bondholders,
or 20 years, whichever period is the shorter,
and (4) to co-opei’ate financially and other-
wise with the trustee in any marketing
scheme mutually agreed upon. To date the
Forestry Co is reported to have satisfac-
torily carried out its obligations, and its
ability to continue to do so is certified by
the auditors to the trustee.
The Forestry Co. figured the net return to
bondholders at £250 an acre should the crop
be sold as wood-pulp in 12 years, or £5OO
if marketed as timber in about 20 years.
That is to say, in 12 years you would get
your capital back plus an average of 75 p.c.
p.a., or a return of capital plus an average of
95 p.c. p.a. in 20 years. Cautious men
wondered, but hopes of rich returns on small
capital are in the hearts of every genera-
tion, so millions of pounds have been invested
in this class of long-term speculation.
As a guarantee for the perfox-mance of its
part of the job the Forestry Co. has deposited
with the Trust Co. one-third (£8 6s. Bd.) of
each fully-paid bond. This main-
tenance reserve fund amounted to £524,154
at March 31, and is invested in trustee
securities. It belongs to the Forestry Co.,
which receives annually from the Trust Co.
6 p.c. of the original fund, calculated on the
full number of acres planted. At the end.
of the maintenance period the balance of
this fund, or so much of it as may be
required, is to be advanced to the Trust Co.
on loan “properly secured” for the purpose
of “px-eparing to market the forests.” For
the same purpose advances may be made on
account of such balance during the mainten-
ance period. All advances carry intei-est at
the rate current in Maoriland, and are to be
repaid out of the first proceds of realisation.
In addition the Forestry Co. has agreed to
invest such portion of the fund as may be
mutually agreed upon in any undertaking
which has for its object the realisation of
the forests.
But exactly what it is intended to do next
the directors of the two cos. themselves do
not know at the moment. They have
appointed a realisation committee, which is
inquiring into “the widest possible range of
utilities derivable from the forests, cost of
production of each, and probable markets.”
This looks like an admission that pros-
pectus estimates of pi’ofits were a mere
guess. Hence the wide powers sought
by the directors of the Trust Co.; the
freehold is evidently required as secu-
rity for the advances. The cost of
research is not expected to exceed a few
shillings per acre, and the Forestry Co. has
agreed to contribute on the same basis as
bondholders for all planted areas owned by
the co. These comprise about 10,000 acres
at present, being reserve plantings in
accoi-dance with prospectus promises. Also
the co. is to be appointed selling agent orx a
commission basis —p.c. of gross sales for
cash, or 2\ p.c. of gi’oss sales on any other
basis.
How bondholders are likely to come out of
the venture it is, of course, imposible to say
—as it always has been.
The Shale Industry
Helped by a Commonwealth grant a couple
of vigorous assaults are being made on the
shale deposits of N. S. Wales. One is at
Wolgan Valley (Newnes), although that seam
has been pretty conclusively proved to be
too narrow to be payable; the only thing
in its favor is that there is a fine retorting
plant handy. The other is 60 miles north of
Wolgan, and is reached most easily from
Muswellbrook. Here the South Bsrerami and
Widden cos. are carrying out a common
programme. Two tunnels have been driven
on the seam, 300 ft. apart, and at nearly
400 ft. in it is 3ft. 6in. to 3ft. 9in. thick —
it has not narrowed at all. The tunnels are
connected on shale worth from 80 to 130
gallons to the ton; an exceptionally high
grade. Prospects hei*e are very encouraging.
“Old Warden”: Sydney was mildly inter-
ested last week in some fine gold-bearing
specimens from the old Lucknow field, from
which good retuims were won between
1862 and 1900. The prospectors, Messrs. W.
and A. Marshall, claim that the shoot from
which the specimens were taken is the lorxg-
sought-for continuation of the old Lucknow
reef, which pinched out suddenly some 30
years ago. Lucknow formations are unique,
and the fact that they have been subject to
intense “alteration” has not made the pi’o-
blem any the easier to solve. Generally the
gold was found in veins in the andesite foot-
wall. But assuming that the lost lead
has been found by the Marshalls there is no
certainty that the run will continue with-
out fault for long.
ft ft ft ft
The story of Lasseter’s find has sent
many parties fossicking for the rainbow’s
end in the inhospitable region, west of Ilbilba.
R. Buck, of the Middleton Ponds nm, is
endeavoring to persuade the Central Aus-
tralian Gold Exploration Co. to send yet
another expedition in search of the reef
which has remained hidden for 40 years.
ft ft * ft
Wiluna ore contains about 1 per cent,
arsenic as arseno-pyrite. On a production of
40,000 tons ore monthly the annual produc-
tion of white arsenic at the Victor Leggo
plant will be some 4800 tons, after allowing
for losses. Of this quantity the market in
Australia can absorb about 2300 tons, so
2500 tons will be available for export. Mexico
can land white arsenic in London to-day at
£lB per ton. Chief uses of the chemical
are for sheep-dips, fungicides, weed-killers
and in the glass industry.
* ft * *
Shareholders in Princess Royal have no-
thing to be happy about in connection with
tbwur venture into Westonia. It is the old
story of plant before sufficient ore was
proved. Bewick, Moreing and Co. were
called in to prescribe, and advised a policy
of development. Meantime the plant is hung
up, and a new manager has been appointed.
* * * *
For 12 years ore suppliers at Ravens-
thorpe have chased the Westralian Mines
Department through the courts for £lOO,OOO
alleged to have been wrongfully charged for
smelting and realisation. At last a settle-
ment has been effected, the department agree-
ing to pay £40,000 over an “extended period.”
* * ft *
Since striking the rich quartz outcrop at
Edjudina (W.A.), Kimberley Options has
milled 606 tons for 10270 z., and prospects
are encouraging.
* * ft ft
On the recommendation of Dr. Woolnough,
Commonwealth geological adviser, Oil
Search, Ltd., is considering the question of
putting down a cored test-well to over 2000
feet on Talbot’s dome in the Wooramel River
area, Westralia. The geological nature of
the structure here is said to closely resemble
that at Springsure in Queensland.
ft ft ft ’ ft
Shareholders in Freney Oil have told the
directors that they prefer geologist Blatch-
ford’s bore site to the one decided upon by
the board; so E. J. H. Nicholson, one of the
directors, has been sent to inspect the two
spots. It will let the board out of an awk-
ward position gracefully.
* ft ft ft
Katu Tin Dredging, a Burma Malay off-
shoot in Western Siam, made a loss of
£3939 for the year to March 31, as against
a profit of £5263 for the previous 12 months.
That was after striking off £7994 for depre-
ciation. Two months’ stoppage under the
restriction scheme cost the co. £3OOO. The
dredge recovered 404 tons of tin oxide from
ground averaging .851 b. per c.y. at a cost of
4.83 d. Though the Government of Siam has
decided to restrict production, this is not
expected to seriously diminish present out-
puts. Capital is £145,000. There was
£22,515 (due in 1933) coming to debenture-
holders, £5OOO to the parent and £8313 to
sundry creditors. Liquids totalled £10,954;
the mine figured at £94,678 ; dredge, £76,391.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED..
(Transfei'red from Service Department.)
Who established and owns the Bank of
England? How governed? —sl7B.
Founded in 1694. The Government wanted
a loan of £1,200,000, an unheard-of thing,
The subscribers of this lpan formed the bank ;
and the proprietors still hold their title from
that day. (The capital, with reserve, is now
about 18 millions.) The bank is governed by
a board appointed by the proprietors; the
governor and deputy governor and most
others in control are permanent officials of
the bank. The bank began with 24 directors,
and that number has been little varied.
Traditionally, dividends must not exceed 12
p.c., at which rate they have stood for many
years. Many times it has been suggested
that the proprietors should be bought out by
the State; but it has always been felt that
the political independence of the bank can
be best preserved by the present method,
while the bank's national character could
not be heightened by any change.
(1) What was “the Barrack-street savings
bank” ( Sydney ) and when tvas it opened?
Date of opening of N.S.W. Government Sav-
ings Bank? Constitution? Why were the
two amalgamated? (2) Prospects of recon-
struction ? —5163.
(1) “The Barrack-street bank” was the
Savings Bank of N.S.W., established in 1832;
originally administered by nine trustees;
under an amendment passed in ’53, the
number might be increased to 18; and the
trustees, who were appointed by the Gov-
ernment, appointed a managing trustee. The
Governor was president f
eminent Savings Bank of N S. Wales (gen
erally known before Federation as the, 1 ost
Office Savings Bank) was established 1
IR7I It lent only to the Government and
control It the T-M.G On
offices being taken over by th e Common
wealth, control of the bank
State Treasurer. On Jan. 1, IJOi, the bai
was put under control of three commissioiei .
who may be removed only by Parliament.
On Mav 1, 1914, the two banks— Barrack-
street”'and G.S.B.—were amalgamated; it
was felt that, since the G.S.B. was no longer
under direct political control, and moreover
now made advances to others besides the
Government, there was no longer justification
for keeping the two going. (2) See rua
English” this issue.
(1) Where could I buy a small retort for
the treatment of gold amalgam? (2) Tv here
could I sell small parcels of platinum.
(3) What is the broivn sand found m plati-
num concentrate? Is there any
method of separating it on the field?—v 102.
(1) From H. B. Selby and Co., Bulletin-
place, Sydney. Price about £2 each for the
cheapest. (2) Harringtons, Ltd.. George-
street, or A. W. Dye and Co., 219 Elizabetli-
street —both Sydney—will purchase small
quantities of platinum or supply informa-
tion as to where it can be sold. The price
varies from £s_ to £8 per ounce fine, (o)
Probably ilmenite and zircon. It is not pos-
sible to separate very fine platinum from
heavy sands by any simple method, other
than the tedious process of picking it out
by hand.


“YOU’RE NEXT, SIR!”
“The Arbitration Courts and 44-hour Acts must go. Arrangements between unions and employers must take their place. There is hostility by both employers
and employees to compulsory arbitration.”
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
We Can Grow Many Things
Dear Bulletin,— The “Commonwealth
Year Book” says that for 1927-28 Australia
imported tea valued at £3,500,000; tobacco,
£1,100,000; silk, nearly £6,000,000; jute
goods, over £3,500,000; cotton and linen,
£8,500,000; canvas and duck, £711,000; sew-
ing silk and cotton, £900,000 ; cotton yarn,
£670,000; and another £1,000,000 must be
added for coffee, cocoa and spices not speci-
ally mentioned in the Year Book. These
amounts added together make £26,000,000.
Australia should grow these essentials and
be an exporter of some of them. Why have
we built the huge Burrinjuck and Hume
dams and locked the Murray? Is it merely
to boast of Australia’s potentialities and
to leave the cost of these works as an incubus
on the people? Tea is grown in Java; why
do we _ not grow it ? Also jute, coffee and
cocoa in the N.T. or Queensland?
If we do not put our country to the pur-
poses for which it is adapted someone else
surely will.—Yours etc., Slybacon.
The Farmer’s Sons
Dear Bulletin, —I’m the wife of a small
sheepman in Queensland. It’s never any-
thing but a living under primitive and iso-
lated conditions, cut off from the graces and
eases of life. And lately! My husband
liked tobacco: he hasn’t been able to afford
a smoke for a year. I liked taking my small
children (four) to church and Sunday-school
(14 miles) in the car. I’ve had to de-
register it (fee £5 125.). The freight on
the last lot of fat lambs we sold —and we
got a good average price—came to 22J per
cent, of the gross amount. Our shire rates
are the same as last year. What’s wrong
with granting a man with a young family
a concession in shire rates? It is nice to
know the country hasn’t got sixpence beyond
the value of what the primary producer can
grow; and as he’s not organised, he’s fair
game. But do you think I’m such a fool
as to let my sons go on the land under pre-
sent conditions if I can work them into any-
thing else? —Yours, Sugar and Cream.
Thrift and “Relief” Work
Dear Bulletin, —Since my letter headed
“The Penalty of Thrift” appeared (B.
l/7/’3l) several Maorilanders have been
fined for securing “relief” work while they
had money banked, and many letters highly
indignant about the Labor Department’s atti-
tude have appeared in the press. The depart-
ment contends that thrift is not penalised,
and that it is true charity to help weaker
brothers who are down and out. I know
several of those “weaker brothers” who are
just as much frauds as the man who gets
relief work when he has money banked. One,
whose wife is kept by her wealthy mother,
receives 375. 6d. per week —a manned man’s
allowance—and spends it all on himself,
living in comparative comfort. Another, whose
wife is kept by a son. draws the same pay.
Yet fellows like myself who have scraped to-
gether £2OO to £3OO are barred from securing
work under the New Zealand unemployed
scheme.—Yours, Workless Walter.
Remit Taxes to Employers
Dear B., —My suggestion is to allow em-
ployers a substantial reduction in their taxa-
tion on a graduated scale in proportion to
the further number of people they employ.
It would mean that there would be less money
for the Government to spend, but there would
be correspondingly less need to spend it. —
Yours, Fair Spin.
Communism and the Dole
Dear Bulletin, —The undoubted success
of the Five-Year Plan of industrial organisa-
tion in Russia, and the acceptance of speed-
up stunts under the name of “socialist com-
petition” by the Russian workers, cannot
but impress one. I have by me the English
monthly journal of my union, the A.E.U.,
in which appears a letter from a Sheffield
member, who has been working in Moscow
for six months, mostly in the Electrosavod,
which employs 15,000 hands, including 4000
women. A part of his letter is worth
repeating: “Not only do the best workers
receive considerable material rewards, but,
in addition, have all the social prestige which
is attached to a football star or a champion
boxer in England.” To the Communist loaf-
ing is repugnant, whether on the part of
the idle rich or the idle poor. Since 1916
Russia has eliminated one lot and the other
crowd has been conscripted into the fac-
tories, if necessary.
The basis of the Russian experiment
appears to be hard work and efficiency; that
and not Stalin’s personality is what has
attracted Henry Ford. —Yours etc., Comox.
The Hope in Mining
Dear B., —In the years prior to 1910
metal mining was profitable, and was carried
on all over Australia, employing more than
five times the number it employs to-day.
Three classes of men were employed under
ground—machine men, miners and laborers.
The pay in North Queensland was £3 10s„
£3 and £2 10s.; hours, 44 per week; go down
in. the company’s time and come up in your
own. Then under the Arbitration laws work
was graded and all kinds of stupid condi-
tions were attached; agitators got to work,
and the cry was “The boss is in a hole —;
put the boot in.” To-day, in consequence,
the spirit of venture in the mining field is
almost dead.
Unemployment would have been felt earlier
as mine after mine closed down, only w T ar
broke out, which caused a shortage of labor
due to men enlisting; hence those discharged
were able to get employment in coastal towns
and on works carried out by the Government.
This continued for the duration of the war.
Then 300,000 men returned, and crash was
inevitable.
In order to put the mining industi’y on a
sound footing these things are necessary:—
Ist. —Free from taxation all metals won.
2nd.—Subsidise the insurance 3 per cent.
3rd.—Take away all preference to unionists.
4th.—Cut out all grading; leaving only machine
men, miners and laborers underground.
6th.—Hours of work underground 44 per week,
going down in co.’s time, coming up in their own.
6th.—Cut off royalty on timber and firewood.
7th.—Reduce the tariff on all mining supplies
50 per cent. (Dynamite was 375. 6d. per case;
to-day, £4 and over.)
Then we would soon see a difference, as it
would make more work for railways and all
classes of the community.—Yours, T. Mills.
Unemployed and New Guinea
Dear Bulletin, —I read with great in-
terest your proposal to place the unemployed
on the land to grow their own food. Where?
May I suggest New Guinea? There are thou-
sands of acres of magnificent soil uninhabited,
healthy, with splendid climate, no fever
or mosquitoes, around Bulolo and the Wau
goldfields. Mandated Territory, As the gold-
fields develop there will be a ready market
for farm produce. There is no road fit for
transport so far; all transport is under-
taken by aeroplanes. I suggest that Aus-
tralia send hard-working unemployed agri-
cultural men to make a road and narrow-
gauge tram from Salamoa to the goldfield;
the men to receive half wages, the balance
to pay for food and land. At the same time
the Government should send up surveyors
to lay out the land in small blocks (say,
25 acres) for settlement; the Government'
to find seeds, tools, implements and stock,
to be paid for by instalments. So hundreds
of unemployed would have an opportunity of
making a permanent home and becoming
useful citizens. —Yours, P. N. G.
Unrepresented Interests
Dear Bulletin, —Moneyed Australians
who, whether as small N. S. Wales Savings
Bank depositors or as capitalists in a big
way, see their life-savings threatened have
themselves to blame in at least one sense.
They are paying for their political casual-
ness. The Representatives, considered on a
vocational basis, discloses a preponderance
of secretaries (Theodore, Parkhill, etc.),
lawyers (Latham, Maxwell, etc.) and jour-
nalists (Scullin, Gullett, etc.), with a few
small farmers and graziers. Mr. Lazzarini
(draper) personifies the soR-goods trade,
and Mr. Lyons (estate-agent > an industry
which was booming till recently. The coun-
try lives on wool to a great extent, and
there isn’t one leading sheepman in the
House. In the year before this Parliament
w r as elected over 6,000,000 tons of overseas
cargo was discharged at Australian ports,
and over 5,000,000 tons were shipped abroad;
yet it hasn’t a single shipping director. The
same with manufacturing, transport, bank-
ing and insurance. In the House of Commons
manufacturers, such as ex-Prime Minister
Baldwin, preponderate, and there are always
impressive quotas of land-owners, bank, in-
surance and shipping experts, brewers and
others qualified to speak authoritatively
about the nation’s industries. It was the
arguments used by Tories in touch with
farming, such as Lord Eustace Percy, that
persuaded the freetrade, pro-Moscow Mac-
Donald Government to decide to protect
British agriculture against the Russian
Five-year Plan. Our Parliament has ceased
to be one in the true sense, and has become
a place where decisions made by irrespons-
ible outsiders —usually at a Trades Hall —
are registered, often without effective criti-
cism. The presence in the Reps, of even
one first-rate financial authority might have
caused Australia to realise the storms ahead
years before it did, and averted major insani-
ties such as Canberra. But such men have
long ceased to offer themselves, and the
machines, which are run in the interests of
the old hands, wouldn’t have them if they
did. —Yours, Inner Temple.
Pre-Selection
Dear B., —When the government was
taken from the privileged few, it was ex-
pected that the finest intellects of all classes
would be available to govern us. But with
the development of party government, and
later on pre-selection, the door has been
closed against all except the party hack and
political trimmer. Men of independent
thought .know it is useless to contest an elec-
torate unless a small coterie—-sometimes
only a dozen—approves of the nomination,
After Mahony won that money and retired
from Dailey, the Laborites in the electorate
imagined they elected Theodore. They did
not: he was elected as soon as the political
executive approved his nomination. They
actually elected him; the voters just marked
the ballot-papers as instructed. Had any
of them refused to vote as ordered they
would have been classed as scabs; yet each
party has to depend on so-called scabs to
return it to power, for if a certain number
of people did not change their minds, we
-would have the one set of rulers until some
other party could breed sufficient new voters
to shift them. It was suggested recently
that we should call in Robert Gibson or
John Monash. What hope would either have
in a pre-selection ballot in the majority of
Federal electorates? And that is the posi-
tion with regard to hundreds of others well
fitted and willing to serve the country.—
Yours, Geot.oin.
The Employment of Women
Dear B.—l suggest that no more females
Do employed in any position a man can fill,
an d that those in employment give it up
a s soon as a man—he might well be the
nominee of the woman—is found able and
willing to replace her.
It may be said that'women have achieved
a definite place in commercial life from
which they cannot be spared; but there is
nothing to prove this as a general proposi-
tion. There are some women of peculiar
talent who have so grown with their present
positions that they are practically indispens-
able; those few, naturally, would carry on
as usua i. i n the main, however, women
on ] y came into general employment because
they were abundant and cheap when simpli-
fied household work and factory manufac-
ture of all clothing left them free of home
ties. It might be contended that men now
brought to new tasks would not be adequately
efficient; but have not our men proved them-
selves generally intelligent, adaptable and
capa ble? At least 75 per cent, of unem-
ployed men would rush such openings as
would be provided. Needs would be less,
too, for the women, if only to relieve their
idleness, would once again be busy making
their own and man’s clothing, and so reduce
expenses; they might also be profitably em-
ployed in toy-making. Anyhow, there would
be nothing wrong with maintaining the dole
for unemployed women; it might then be
something of a blessing
Above all, when'our'conditions are eased
there would be the vast body of men used
to employment and willing to carry on on
reasonable terms instead of being habitu-
ated to unemployment.—VlAtr.
Jie Down the Politicians
Dear Bulletin, —Why are not politicians
bound by the same laws as everyone else? An
agent offers me a block of land; after signing
fbe contract, I find he has swindled me. I
cail g a j n redress in a court of law or charge
him with false pretences. Why can I not
gain redress when politicians swindle me?
They are agents peddling their wares before
an election, their wares being their promises,
By voting for them I sign a contract with
them. But when they break that contract,
I have to suffer in silence. If every sane
person were to vote only for the candidate
who pledged himself to bring in a law that
would place the politician and the agent on
the same footing, we might be one step
nearer to an ideal Parliament.—Yours, One
of the Mugs.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
;Her Majesty’s “The Gondoliers”
Criterion “Many Waters”
Royal Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
yTAI 'E Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Sat.) .... “The, Duchess of Dantzic”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville & Revue
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Mr. Whiddon’s Big Show
“In his spare time,” remarked The Bulle-
tin’s biographer of Mr. Whiddon, “he has
played the organ.” That in itself is no mean
qualification for the position of Director of
State Lotteries. To practise organ-playing
in one’s spare time is to display several
useful virtues, including courage, since dead
cats, turnips and other revolting missiles
are the common lot of organ-grinders, and
may not be outside the experience or deserts
of lottery directors.
Even if Mr. Whiddon had never braved
that deluge, had never been an organ-
grinder in the open-air sense of the term, but
had done his organ-playing only in churches,
he would still be thereby specially fitted for
the post at which last week he made such
an impressive stand. For it seems extremely
likely that the tunes he would have tootled in
his spare time must have included the Wed-
ding March, a musical composition inspired
above all others by the gambling spirit, not
overlooking “Horsey Keep Your Tail Up” and
such-like classic ’ renderings of punters’
anguish. Apart from all this, there is evi-
dence of a showman talent latent in Mr.
Whiddon in the fact that he was once offered
—vide the same biographer—the position of
chorus leader by ,T. C. Williamson, perhaps
on the strength of his having, earlier in his
career, when he kept a hotel, had consider-
able experience in the emptying of other
gushful barrels.
Selected by Mr. Lang on account of these
and other histrionic qualifications—among
them a talent, displayed in the role of Com-
missioner of Taxation, of taking the bird, the
razz and such-like expressions of displeasure
with equanimity—he rose to the occasion
superbly. His opening performance in the
beautiful pink and green granite and gold
portalled and stone-broke Government Sav-
ings Bank attracted a queue that has had
“The tunes he would have tootled must
have included ‘The Wedding March.’”
no equal since society lined up to examine
the sartorial credentials 1 of the Prince of
Wales —or even since hanging was declared
off as a public amusement. " This queue was
more like one of the latter of those out-
ings than the former. An undertaker’s
picnic Avould have been cheeerful beside it.
It stretched half,a block along Gastlereagh-
street, up a-full block of Martin-plaCe and
another half-block back along Elizabeth-
street. It was there before nine o’clock s 'oh
Monday, was stillfhere when the show closed
at four o'clock; and was there ■ aghin before
breakfast on. Tuesday, two to four deep'.
Perhaps it is most amply described in; the
fact that the brightest face in it belonged to
Neil McKay, : Scotch comedian, who, in an
unpatriotic moment, had undertaken to shout
tickets for the Tivoli ballet.
Certainly it could not be called a pictur-
esque queue, even as queues go. Nobody
could accuse optimism of having been written
all over it. Only if you stepped over'aiid
spoke to one of it’did it show any sign'of
feeling. Then it moved tighter into its
sardine formation, and glowered at you. One
garrulous individual; who. after an hour’s
silence, ventured the remark that if he won
it: he would buy two pubs, was at once
snubbed by another who said that if he won
it he would buy a pair of boots Then
silence fell again like a wet blanket. • It
would have taken a courageous heart to
break in anywhere along that grim half-
mile. An hour or two of watching it gave
harvest of only one person braving the glare
and stepping in out of place. A woman—
of course. Only a woman would have had the
courage and other requisite qualities to
commit sacrilege on the immemorial sacred-
ness of the queue.
The queue said nothing. It let her in.
It was mostly of men, and most of them
looked as if they had wives of their own.
They had the long, sad silences of the mar-
ried. They did not want to share their
secrets or their dreams, as the after-the-
race queues at the tote have a happy way of
doing. If they were there because they had
scored ten in one shot at billiards, or missed
the boat that Aunt Annie caught and fainted
on, or had the five bob they lent a poet
returned to them, or headed ’em 14 times in
a row, or saw three nuns together, or picked
up a pin, or forgot to have ten bob on the
sure thing that ran last—if they were there
at any such occult promptings, they kept the
fact mournfully to themselves.
Watching them recalled other great queues.
There used to be queues to buy tickets for a
Melba show, even when her voice whs not
what it had been, and there were queues
to see Sarah Bernhardt when that still divine
lady was about 80 and had only one leg.
She acted sitting on. some stage prop., with
a grey fog effect to help her. Yet it was
the sort of thing you don't forget in a hurry.
Then there were Digger queues. For what
didn’t Diggers queue? Everything from new
overcoats to new insides; from sign on to
sign off; queues for picture-shows....
desert cinema with Chapirp at the end;
queues for the Blood House- at Monte Video,
where the movies had a habit of sticking....
horses’ legs cocked up.... jockeys with
“Society lined up to examine the sartorial
credentials of the Prince of Wales.”
whips half-lifted.... all the suspense that
Keats saw on the Grecian urn, and a
Digger-bellowed “Ten to one the field!” as
the poetry of it; queue to a wretched con-
cert party, where the Countess of Somewhere
gave a humorous recitation seriously, having
slightly misinterpreted its meaning.
Of them all only one queue was quite so
woebegone as this one of last week —it was
a queue of Diggers lined up for compulsory
inoculation. Even one other memorable
queue of Diggers, lined up for an issue of
limejuice in lieu of rum, did not take that
dirty blow of fate half so mournfully as this
one took the prospects of there being a happy
ending to Mr. Whiddon’s comedy. No
wonder, perhaps. It is not easy to accept
even such a proved versatile performer ’in
the role of Whiddon the Wizard after know-
ing him for years in the rQle of Whiddon the
Blizzard, or even Whiddon the Gizzard.
Yet there must have been optimism at
the heart of some of these people. One
man, at any rate, carried a kerosene-tin all
pasted over, sides, top and bottom, with
newspapers; and anyone who tries to dis-
guise a kerosene-tin as a newspaper, even
as a Centenary issue of the “Herald,” can
hardly be called a pessimist. Another
applied for his ticket in the name of the
Theodore Syndicate; but these were, after
all, rare and silent instances of optimism.
The outstanding characteristic of the queue
was a set look, not so much hopeless as
grim. It looked like a queue of poker-
players. One would have thought it had,
never even heard of Mr. Whiddon’s organ-
tootling or chorus-leading propensities. It
just stood, or moved forward inch by inch,
as if it felt that at the end of the way not
Mr. Whiddon’s beatific countenance awaited
it/but only the mocking visage of a cross-
eyed Chinaman.
Even after it had seen Mr. Whiddon’s show,
it, merely went away, glum as ever, in inde-
cent haste. Yet the show was good,
as shows go. There was nobody in it quite
as good-looking as Miss Darbyshire or quite
as toefully funny as Mr. Menzies, perhaps;
and the voices uttering the dramatic lines
“Next please!” and “What : d’you call this
signature?” may not have had the suavity of
Mr. Harvey’s. Yet if < Miss Riano’s legs are
worth insuring for £10,000: . . .1 But perhaps
this line of criticism has l gone - far enough.
It was a very enjoyable show, Mr.
Whiddon. A lovely, chorus. You were quite
right.to have it in a basement. All Sydney’s
•most ridiculous shows' have been given in
basements; There, was. .
’ But perhaps this! line of criticism, too,
has gone far enough. . ■ • ... ;■
' •i ■ ; ! 1.
The Australian grand-opera i season con-
tinued an outstanding' success 'at Melbourne
Royal last/week, and the Tally-of homicides
steadily / grew, being added to by the inclu-
sion of several, local singers h who had not
perished’in'i the cause".of musical melodrama
before. Ernest-Wilson ■ presented a thinner
Escarhillo' in “Carmen”.'alternately with the
very > experienced Izal/ahd the traffic had to
be.held up: while he repeated l the; second verse
■of the “Toreador” song.! Alban Eddy, of
the melodious- light, bass notes, which should
“Experience in.the emptying of gushful
barrels.”
increase in power, made, another • personal
hit in the heavy part of Mephistopheles.
Eileen Castle’s inclusion in the cast of
“Faust” on the 12th and 15th. as Mar-
guerite. was another event. ' It was the
lady’s debut in gr’opera.'in her native land.
A packed house of connoisseurs, largely igno-
rant of the fact that she had played the part
many times before N’York audiences, viewed
her. convincingly hysterical outburst over
Valentine’s death with delighted surprise.
Much of her warbling was nicely legato and
fresh and’she’imported a dignity and re-
ligious atmosphere into the church scene
which is seldom introduced. Violet Jackson's
Siebel was another performance which merits
an approving adjective. After being tem-
porarily put out of action in the middle of
“La Tosea” by the violence of his emotions,
Joseph Hislop reappeared later in the week.
Present critic hands the blue ribbon with bar
to him and the Orfif-Solsclier for their pas-
sionate duet in the last scene in “Carmen."
For a parallel to the Scottish tenor's acting
and singing and the German lady’s realistic
collapse on the steps of the bullring at
Seville, one has to go back to the great days
of Williamsonian opera. The season will
close with a request performance of “Faust"
with an all-British cast, including Hislop,
to-morrow (Thursday) night.
* * *
There was no metropolitan reserve about
the audience at the concert of the Malvern
(Melbourne) Symphony Orchestra at the
local Town Hall on Saturday night. Fired
with musical appreciation and civic pride, it
clapped the skin off its palms. It not only
applauded at the end of a piece but when-
ever the orchestra paused for breath. City
visitors looked aghast, but it did not mind.
It was out to prove Malvern’s boast that it
is the most musical suburb in this sub-con-
tinent. The claim was advanced a step by
the fact that the programme was not only
the most ambitious but the best played to
date. It included the “Egmont” overture,
Mozart’s Symphony in G minor, two Hun-
garian dances by Brahms, a Coleridge Taylor
and a Scarlatti suite, and a work, hitherto
unperformed in Australia, by the Italian
Respighi, called “Antiche, Danze ed Arie.”
The last-named was announced as a modern
work, but the only thing'modern about it was
its date. It was a melodious piece and was
the Mozart symphony’s lineal descendant,
though it lacked the vigor, the grace and
intensity of its august ancestor. Conductor
Mallinson and his friends were at their best
in the slow movement of the symphony,
out of which they extracted a satisfying
loveliness. One thing is obvious about this
organisation—it no longer calls for con-
descension from the city critic, but compels
his attention and interest.
* * ¥
The influence of the movies is apparent
at Melbourne Tiv., where the entertainment
has been speeded up so that the sentimental
baritone who looks as if he is going to burst
into tears ( instead of into song has his last
“Would have taken a courageous heart to
break in.”
notes trodden on by the heels of the Tivoli
(Celebrity Twelve, whose seductive limbs melt
into Harry Kelso’s grip, which in turn fades
into the strains of Mdlle Kesslova’s violin.
An engaging item is the Juvenile Revue, in
which sundry infants demonstrate their
ability to do the things their elders do as
badly and as well. ‘ Tex McLeod continues
to handle a lasso as an excuse for his run-
ning and witty commentary on Lang and
other Aunt Sallies of the times. It is this
theatregoer’s private conviction that ventri-
loquists as a race ought to be quietly chloro-
formed, but it may be said of Arthur Prince
that he is one of The best of his kind. If
there is any fault to be found with the pre-
sent lavish bill it is in the encouragement
given to tenors disguised as Spanish bandits
to sit over camp-fires in an Australian forest
singing about the alleged virtues of their
mas. t, i
This is not a complaint that can be
brought against the Connors and Paul enter-
prise at the Bijou, where - The . Bulletin
was shown to a stand on the flooi; on-Satur-
day afternoon, the old building: being, packed
to the doors with students of - that eminent
psychologist Mo. There is ,no vulgar'- pre-
tence about. Mo’s show, which-is nearly as
bawdy, if not as frank, as “Troilus and
Cressida, ’ Act I, Scene 2. • (Interval - here
for Shakspearean students • to .confirm the
above at the nearest public library.) .<
It is All Quiet on the King’s and Princess
fronts, the supply of vaudeville being tem-
porarily in excess of the demand.
By way of improving the. quality of its
programmes the Aust. Broadcasting, Co. has
started subsidising concerts -by,, the • Mel-
bourne. University Conservatoriuin. The pro-
grammes are performed at the Melba Hull
in the presence of a flesh-and-blood audience
and are at the same time, broadcast to the
four corners of the habitable globe. At the
last one attended contralto .Isabel Biddell
was heard in nice renderings of old English
and modern songs; pianist Henri Penn gave
sensitive expression to a Saint-Saens’s toc-
cata and some familiar Chopin, and also
obliged with an acrobatic caprice of his own;
and there was a sonata by Elgar which, if
not particularly soul-stirring music, gave Penn
and violinist Tarezynski boundless onnortuni-
ties for displaying their virtuosity. Followed
a panel of violin soli by Tarezynski, beauti-
fully played. Why this musician has not been
snapped up by one or other of the picture-
theatre people as orchestral leader is beyond
present writer’s comprehension. Every talkie
emporium has a musical director who is
supposed to represent the romantic idea of
an artist, as conceived by Hollywood. Usually
lie bears a closer resemblance to almost any-
thing else. He makes up for Nature’s remiss-
ness by plastering his hair with axle-grease
conducting a fox-trot as if it were a Beet-
hoven concerto and, acknowledging the hearty
applause of the usher in the dark corner
•by the side entrance with repeated bows - but
all in vain. Graduateship from a Colling-
wood musical academy is not thus easily con-
cealed. With his mane of yellow hair, his
poetic face and the natural distinction of
“There because they had scored ten in
one shot at billiards.”
his manner, Tarezynski looks the beau-ideal
of the romantic musician without any make-
up at all. H'e is a very fine artist as well.
* * ¥
Melbourne Royal, given one day and night
in which to recover from the shock of three
weeks of opera, on Saturday night will re-
open to another sort of musical revival —Dot
Brunton as the Duchess of Dantzic.
v- * *
On the 29*th there will be two Williamson
changes in Sydney: “The Pirates” will take
the place of “Gondoliers” at tier Majesty’s,
and Harvey wi/1 replace the. lugubrious
“Many Waters” at the Criterion with his
own play, “Cape Forlorn.” Gilbert and
Sullivan is doing the best business the Firm
has had this year.
The Palace will have the admirable “Con-
stant Nymph” for another two Saturdays,
when the Independents out the painter that
has very briefly moored them to the Taits
and sensibly return to the Savoy, which is
quite as big as their purposes are ever likely
to need and lias an atmosphere that pecu-
liarly suits them. The first offering after
the return will be “The Second Man.” a
comedy of tangled emotions with a cast of
four.
At the Royal vaudeville has had a run
of several weeks without change of bill, still
to good business.
The Lyceum has achieved a miracle in
movie advertising—found a' new adjective.
It is advertising its “third proud week.”
* *
Ethel Morrison and Mary McGregor, as
the two Mrs. Frasers, have for a week com-
peted at Adelaide Royal for the wobbling
affections of a stolid Scotch J. B. Rowe.
The acting is polished, really good all round,
especially that of the' young and new John
Wood.
* V *
Brisbane Majesty’s has had packed houses
for the J.C.W. “Country Girl”; the nox
offering will be a week of “Kissing Time.”
* * *
A note from tile West ;
It was a sign of the times for the Royal Comics
to break their journey from Perth to Melbourne at
Kalgoorlie to put in a few nights at the goldopolis
Town Hall, singing to the ’weight-chasers of
the love affairs of Sonia. It recalled the tinselled
days of the old galv.-ironed Majestic in Brookiitan-
street. There isn’t a house vacant in Kalgoorlie
to-day. Discarded shops are stocking up once moo
—even the impoverished trams are carrying more
passengers. The Firm has added another town to
its Western itinerary.
The Palette.
M. J. McNally,, a water-colorist with a
strong predilection for dramatic skies, is
showing at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
a score of transcripts of scenery in the
Windsor district of N. ,S. Wales. The style
is distinctive rand-effective, and the pictures
are cleverly composed., George’s River and
the Hawkesbufy abound in picturesque
vistas, and the old town of Windsor is full
“Not Mr. Whiddon’s beatific countenance
awaited.”
of treasure-trove, which Mr. McNally has
very .successfully prospected.
Alan Glover is the latest addition to
one-man exhibitors at the - Society of Arts
gallery in Adelaide. Like most others among
the young men, he is versatile, handling
figures, flowers or landscapes in turn. His
color work is of great promise; but at pre-
sent tliat is all. His etching, however, is
delightful, and both Melbourne and Adelaide
have bought him for the State galleries.
The model for Paul Montford’s statue of
Adam Lindsay Gordon, which has been on
show at Melbourne Athenaeum, depicts the
poet sitting in. a sinuously graceful position
in a chair waiting for his subconscious mind
to provide a rhyme for “eucalyptus.” Under
the chair arc a saddle and cabbage-tree hat.
and the owner is coatless and has nchng-
boots on. His coat is tucked into the chair
behind him. The work gives less the eftecr
of an impression of a human being than a
series of photos of him put together. lher>'
is too much, detail and too little broad gen-
eralisation, a fault with Montford. _ Hie
' statue will spend the rest of its existence
' sitting in Spring-street,


PROVIDE FOR
YOUR FUTURE
& 5
iwm
; : : I
Plantations grown and maintained by South
Australian Perpetual Forests Limited.
4 y* years old. Circumference 21 inches.
GOLD
and
TIMBER
are now
VALUABLE
m
GOLD is where
you FIND IT-
BUT
TIMBER
CAN BE
GROWN
(D
Foil can share
in the wealth
from Timber .
NEW ISSUE OF FORESTRY BONDS
SHOWING EARLY RETURNS TO BONDHOLDERS
Secw ity Handsome Profits
Write and obtain particulars of how you can
obtain a share in a Forest already partly grown .
South Australian Perpetual Forests Limited
BOWMAN BUILDINGS, KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
Victorian Office: Eastern Telegraph House, 341 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“MHO'S ENGLISH”
™ DICTIONARY
WAS 4Q/'
An Unrivalled Standard
BRITISH DICTIONARY
30
ICA s*\i
having these
modern advantages
over all other dictionaries :
TW*
l-’itiClMJ**’
32
Much more readable; bold in type;
compact; light in weight; contains
the latest-compiled world maps; has
all the latest specialist, technical and
scientific words; contains a key to
pronunciation, geographical, bio-
graphical, grammatical and other
special sections, as well as an excel-
lent section on how to speak and
write correct English; contains, also,
nearly 150,000 expert definitions of
words.
Handsomely bound, this excellent
standard work should be on the
shelf of every Australian home.
BUY YOUR COPY NOW whilst this opportunity offers. To further
popularise the "King’s English” Dictionary we offer
LIMITED STOCKS ONLY of this most up-to-date work at 30/- cash.
When present, stocks are depleted
it will be impossible to repeat
owing to import duties, arid price
will certainly revert to much
higher than the original cost
of 40/-
Your home needs a standard die*
tonary. Get a copy NOW of the
•‘King’s English.” It is the big-
gest value for money ever offered!
GORDON AND GOTCH (Australasia), Limited,
Box 162788, G.P.0., Sydney.
Enclosed please find 30/- (Money Order, Postal
Note or Cheque). Please send 1 copy “King's
English” Dictionary to
“B”
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
“Not a bite in
a bottle
McCalkuris for n
me every time!"
(DTattums
CUhisl^
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF MeCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Sleeping Cardinal,” a Sherlock
Holmes talkie at Sydney Regent, is calcu-
lated to depress patriotic Britons. Here is
a character that everybody likes, and that
only an Englishman can play satisfactorily,
and a period which is capable of being made
fascinating on the screen, as/ Arliss is now
proving in “Old English.” Arthur Wontner
is good enough as Holmes, but he has a poor
story to star in, and all the performers
except himself wear present-day clothes.
Holmes without telegrams, gas brackets anct
oil-lamps is as unreal as Pickwick will
seem when British Dominions show him
using the telephone and switching on the
electric light at Mrs. Bardell’s. Action and
change of scene are the keynotes ol all
Conan Doyle’s yarns. It makes them particu-
larly suitable for talkification, the one thing
that capable directors cut to the bone being
talk. There is as much talk in “The sleep-
ing Cardinal” as in any two U.S.A. mystery
pictures, most of it is dull, and it all occurs
indoors —much of it in the same drab room.
Better acting has been seen on the local
stage in Holmes plays. For instance, Athol-
wood’s Moriarty had horror; this one only
has melodrama.
“The Command to Love,” also at the
Regent, is a Palais Royal _ bedroom farce
deodorised into a romantic comedy of
the Yankeetanian school, and heavily
cut by our censor. The War Minister
is Babbitt, as regards voice, appear-
ance and mentality. lan Keith, an attache
whose sex appeal is esteemed in every
European Chancellery, is ordered by his chief
to seduce the War Minister’s wife, for
i*easons of State. He and the Ambassador
stand reverently to attention while the
strains of their national anthem peal out,
and he then gets on to a job which is com-
plicated by the fact that, he is already making
love to the Ambassador’s wife (Betty Comp-
son). He drops them both eventually for the
girl with the nice teeth in whose arms we
noticed him reposing at an early stage of the
picture. There arc a lot of laughs like this:
War Minister (not dreaming it is his wife whom
Keith is hiding in the bedroom) : “I’ll go now, and
I hope the lady makes you the happiest of men.’’
The photography is particularly good, and
the dresses and furniture have been attended
to by artists.
* * H-
“The Flood,” at Sydney Capitol, begins
as a problem play. Eleanor Boardman
and an unworthy lad with whom she
has been spending the night are seen
packing up at a roadhouse. Disillusion-
ment has been her portion. (“Don’t
touch me ! I never want to see you again.”)
The resultant row with her family lets in
some satire on small-town narrow-minded-
ness, and the drama switches to the soiled
dove’s pitiful hunt for a job. True love
comes when she joins the engineering busi-
ness of Monte Blue’s father as sekkitary—
and, oh! the difference between it and the
other sentiment! Domestic farce follows.
Thc f atlier is a tyrannical curmudgeon,
soon to be transformed into a sentimentalist
with a heart of gold, whose wedding present
to the bride is a set of baby’s underclothes,
the old devil! Exit innocent merriment (also
the father, who, mercifully, doesn’t reappear) *
an( j en ter domestic discord with the arrival
(| j- the seducer, who turns out to be the Ims-
band’s best friend. After certain violent
p assa ges between betrayer and distracted
w jfe and betrayer and enraged husband, the
cu l m i n ating catastrophe looms. A dam
bursts and drowns the betrayer. The wife,
w b o has been to see him, like the idiot she
j Sj rus hes out into the night and gets under
a bridge which is about to he blown up. Ram
teems. Flood waters rise. Fuse sizzles
briskly. “By Heaven, there’s a woman out
there!”—it is the husband’s voice. Fuse
sizzles harder than ever, but now wife is in
husband’s sheltering arms. Bang! Up goes
the bridge ! Husband, miraculously cured ot
bis homicidal suspicions, kisses wife pas-
sionately, and they make way for Harrison
White’s Banjo Wizards (on stage). Eleanor
Boardman puts some intelligent acting into
this nonsense, and the catastrophic effects —
the bursting of the dam and the water
sweeping over the countryside—are wonderful,
“The Lawyer’s Secret,” which starts as
the Capitol’s ice-cream boys are retiring to
their Caesarian clubroom, threatens for a
time to be nothing less awful than, another
publicity stunt for Uncle Sam’s clironically-
undermanned navy. Hordes of light-hearted
gobs, one of whom is Richard Arlen, rush
ashore, and are greeted by beautiful girls.
Instead of pairing off with Jean Arthur, his
sister, Arlen visits a gambling den, is cleaned
out, sells hm revolver to LFarles ( Buddy)
Rogers and leaves. A gangster shoots the
owner of the den with the revolver in Rogers’s
presence, and leaves it near the corpse, which
•»»« *»e_way r« .ho following; popnlar
situations. . , . T
(D Arrest of Arlen. Devoted conduct of Jean
Arthur, who believes m his innocence against all the
evidence. Brainy and courageous detective work by
serio-coimc shipmates.
JfU J_, s
“ d rde d ‘ scovers that Kogels is au accessory to the
(3) Intensified dilemma of Brook when Miss Wray
is se „tenced to death, and Jean
Arthur with h pitiful savings (a^d how the
heart aches at the contrast between her simple
f roc t and the splendor of the guilty Buddy’s home!),
and asks him to take the money and save her brother.
(4) Dilemma of Buddy, who isn’t wholly bad, but
doesn’t want to be hanged,
(5) Dilemmas of benevo ent gaol governor and
exquisitely-costumed District Attorney (Reflection:
How on earth do these American lawyers find time
to-work between conferences, with their tailors ,?),
who are beginning to suspect Arlen hasn t done it.
As these situations involve a police-car
chase; two trial scenes, with the customary
close-ups of Judge, witnesses, etc.; several
gaol scenes (with Murderers’ Row) ; some
fashionable interiors; a reasonable amount of
love-making, and a rousing win for the
U.S.A. Navy at the finish, it will be seen that
nearly all tastes are catered for. The acting
is uniformly good—but look at the cast!


TO MEET THE TIMES
Tiental
Melbourne* Premier Motet
I^.' d . HCes tariff 30% without sacrificing
erneiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
\ ery special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
tiff
(Tfi!!
S'*
tmeat&JS
m
y S
LIGHT LUNCHEON AT 2/-
IN THE WINTER GARDEN.
I his is undoubtedly one of -the most popular
luncheon fixtures in Sydney—from 12 to 2 p.nr. daily.
The menu includes Two Rounds of Buttered Toast,
wnh a choice of Two Rounds of Sandwiches, in no-
less than Thirteen Varieties, or you may have your
choice, of Two Special Hot Dishes.
Compete with Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, Milk or Soup
at the fixed price of two shillings. Specials of
tariff US k lnc k ar *d Sweets as per menu at a popular
up a party and try this light lunch. You
will find it economical, in keeping with the times—
daintily served, amidst delightful and
newly-decorated surroundings
IB PHI
Australia
lifffHll
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
PARENTS SHOULD KNOW
THIS.
HOW TO SAVE MONEY BY MAKING
FAMILY COUGH REMEDY.
It is essential that all parents should know
how to save money by making their own
family cough remedy that will prove safe
and effective for every member of the family,
from the youngest baby up to the oldest
adult. Here is the recipe, given by a leading-
chemist: Into a jug put four tablespoonfuls
of sugar, three of either treacle or honey,
two of vinegar, and a large breakfast-cupful
of warm water; stir until dissolved, and,
when cold, pour into a large bottle. Then
add a bottle of concentrated HEENZO (it
costs 2/- at all leading chemists and stores),
and you will have a family supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to eight
ordinary-sized bottles of the usual remedies
for chest and throat ailments, which if
purchased in single bottles would cost up to £l.
You will be astounded at the speedy way
HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases the chest
and banishes coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis,
influenza and whooping cough. Make it a prac-
tice to always have HEENZO in your home.*
ABORIGINALITIES
"Wippegong”: On behalf of all magpies,
past, present and to come, I emphatically
object to the misguided observations of
‘Finn” (B. 5/8/’3l). The subject of “color
protection” does not concern us. For quail,
plover, doves, dottrels, wrens and such pusil-
lanimous cusses this is no doubt very
important, but why should the good Lord
waste his time working out a color protec-
tion scheme for the likes of us, who let out
a battle-squawk and go like blazes for any
potential enemy within half a mile of our
home? Color protection! It’s the other
fellow who needs that, and strong wings, too,
when I and my missus decide on direct
action : and if “Finn” had seen crows, brown-
hawks, goshawks and eagle-hawks being
moved out of our pre-empted territory he
wouldn’t bother trying to explain uur mark-
ings as a matter of protection. The only
time when these markings make us very
difficult to see is when we are coming
straight at you with that magnificent vol-
plane so characteristic of our attack. There
are some humans who carry scars that bear
out that statement.
PRESERVING THE PROPRIETIES.
“ But, surely you don’t believe in Father Christmas enough to write and ask him) to
bring you a pair of real lace-?”
“Of course not, dear. I trust I am not so unmaidenly. I shall address the letter to
Mrs. Christmas."
CAPITAL DEPRECIATION ACCOUNT.
GANGER: You agreed to ‘tucker ’ me and my mates for a quid a week each, Wot's
the extra arf dollar for?”
COOK: “For the wear and tear of me. cookin’ utensils, of course!”
“Taltingan”; Queer things can happen to
a man out towards the sunset. A while ago
word came into Wilcanma that a man was
lying- dead in a hut at Mt. Jack, on Momba
station- had apparently been lying there for
a good while; and they thought it was
Quimbie, an old abo. of those parts, who
had been missing for weeks. Off a mounted
constable went in a motor-car (all N.S.W.
troopers are mounted on motor-cars these
days), and then fell into the bog which the
break-up of the drought.has turned the West
Darling into, most of this year. So he made
further inquiries, and found it was Quimbie
all right, and then borrowed a buckboard
and four horses and threw his spade under
the seat and abandoned the P.D. car and
splashed and joggled on to Mt. Jack. There
was no doubt there had been a death in the
the decea * ed
iff th? TL 1 So- 9 U " nb c aS i a !’ y t JOdy
Le. So the Law dug a grave and shut its
“A £ handkerchief in
c d bui ed Quimbie. And then
it splashed and joggled home again. No-
thing more would have been heard of the
incident —it has happened many times before
7 —if a week or two later word hadn’t come
into Wilcannia that Quimbie had turned
up at Momba out-station, having heard that
he had been buried. “No fear!” he pro-
tested. “This pfeller not dead yet.” And
now the Law in those parts is wondering
whom it. did bury. It has spent half its
days trying to give the deceased a name;
and half the nights it spends in horrid night-
mares exhuming the body and searching the
clothes for scraps of identification.
* * * *
“G.G.6”: Vic. naturalists report a heavy
mortality among the koalas, especially on
Phillip Island, which is a sanctuary for them.
The cause of the wholesale passing of the
harmless little beasts has defied the post-
mortem experts, but it is suggested that
abnormal foods or the absence of some
normal ingredient in the- ordinary menu may
be responsible. The koala seems subject
to these epidemics. There was one in the
Balonne River country (Q.) in the mid-
’nineties. It wrought such havoc that one
could ride a hundred miles without seeing a
live bear, the bases of many of the big gums
along the watercourses being surrounded with
decaying bodies. Some of the carcases
examined showed quantities of intestinal
worms. How the infection passfed from bear
to bear was not easy to understand, for
though he likes to live in small group com-
munities your koala cannot be said to be
gregarious in the true sense of the word.
*■**.*
“Oran”: The old black hen, who has a
game strain in her, was crossing the orchard
grass with her brood of eight when a big
hawk flew down from a pine-tree and sat
on the paling fence. The hen paused, gave
a low peculiar croak, and the eight chicks
vanished from sight, as completely as young
quail vanish, among the sparse grasses. The
hawk flew away. The hen and her brood
walked slowly towards the farmyard across
a bare, sandy space. They were in the
middle of it when the hawk suddenly re-
appeared, swooping down and then rising, to
alight on a solitary post in the midst of the
sand. There was no cover for the chicks,
but the old hen again gave her curious low
croak. The eight chicks ran together and
formed a black square, three on each side, all
heads out, all tails in—a compact little mili-
tary formation awaiting the attack. The
oM hen, head up, stood by to receive it.
With a stone I routed the enemy, then
walked over to the motionless black square
on the sand. Each chick had its beak pressed
to the ground, and, although ordinarily too
wild for anyone to approach, they crouched
as if dead while I walked round them. Then
the old hen gave a loud, triumphant call, the
eight chickens rose and flew in a cloud to
where she stood, and the whole company
walked sedately to the shelter of the farm-
yard.
ANDY FLYNN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One hot and heavy summertide
I worked along the waterside
In Sydney town.
I “took the time” around the shores
Of sweating, swearing stevedores,
As up and down,
From Miller’s Point to Watson’s Bay,
I earned a living day by day
Without renown.
Those busy hours of youth within
1 met, betimes, with Andy Flynn,
Now with the blest.
For that was forty summers gone.
And Andy’s surely journeyed on
To take his rest.
Or lead a crowd with chanties free
Where’er the ghosts of lumpers be
Beyond the west.
But o’er the years I see him yet,
His hairy arms ashine with sweat,
Long nose adrip;
His flannel open on the chest,
With greasy moles and ragged vest
In some old ship;
Across his face a feckless grin,
A sea-song, full of salt and sin,
Upon his lip.
Oh Shan-an-dore, / loved your daughter
Wey hey ho!
But I’ll come back across the water,
Wey hey ho!
% °a Shan-an-dore, / long to hear you,
Hurrah, you rollin’ river!
You Shan-an-dore, I long to hear you,
Ah, ha, you Shan-an-dore.
Now Andy Flynn had sometime been
A handyman with Dicky Green,
And well he knew
The ways of many waters, when
The Seven Seas bred sailormen
All staunch and true;
And lie had run the easting down
With old Mark Breach and Bully Brown
And Moodie, too—
A dandy ship, a dandy crew,
A dandy cook and captain, too'
Away Rio!
Oh, Liza Lee, she promised me,
Oh, Liza Lee, she promised me,
Away Rio! •
UJ vAn hack to Falmouth Quay
I II marry Liza, Liza Lee,
And away Rio!
The wool screws kept with iron clang
In rowdy tune while Andy sang:
His ribald lay;
With sea-marks on their painted sides
lhe great ships tarried while the tides
Crept up the bay.
The pageant of this ocean life
Went on in strident din and strife
b rom day to day.
But when the burden of the wool
In. summer’s height had reached its full
Then Andy Flynn
Would hitch liis greasy belt once more.
And . in some murky hold outpour
His songs of sin,
A minnesinger to those grim
H *rd doers on the wharves like him
With bread to win.
They too had known the roll and dip
Had journeyed far, by ship and ship; ’
Now settled down
With neither farms nor herds nor flocks
B and kiddies °n The Rocks,
Without renown
They earned, amid the sweat and grime.
A bob an hour and overtime
In Sydney town.
But when long Andy woke again
I.heir sorry souls with some refrain
About the sea;
ri° m »n d V tty ( l! iaillt of “SMy Brown. ,”
Ur Ruben Sail from London Town,”
Ur Liza Lee’,-
The bulging bales, in tiers along
w ould answer to a roaring song
In chorus free.
<V/% Brown was a bright mulatto,
ni tfl n hey ' roll and So!
pff Brown a bright mulatto t
“ Sa% Brom -
Oh, seven long years I courted Sally
I mean to marry Sally Brown;
wZTcTiZ vears 1 emrted
? Flynn, the chanty-man,
I think with you my Muse began
Its message clear!
\ ' we again might meet
At tixat old pub in Windmill-street
lo drink our beer.
As when in youthful hope and pride
\\ e cobbered by the waterside
Gone forty year.
God rest your soul where’er it be
A-saihng. through Eternity.
Old Andy Flynn!
Perchance I’ll meet you by-and-bye,
®tiU raising chanties in the sky.
Long Andy Flynn!
Lou’ll give the solo—lsrafel
W ould take the chorus passing well
From Andy Flynn.
The spirits of v the wharfside crowds,
A-sailmg too above the clouds.
Will surely hear
And rally to a chorus gay
v f Alon( J” and “Cawsand Bay”
And Lowlands” clear.
Their silver sails they’ll loose, and haul
the silken sheets home at the call
brom sphere to sphere.
the call we heard, the call we know
When round the capstan-head we-go
r Oh, fare ye well!
The time has come, with cargo stowed,
To weigh our anchors for the road.
Oh, fare ye well!
Now at the truck Blue Peter flies,
And we have said our last good-byes.
tso fare ye well!
Our anchor we’ll weigh and our sails
We will set.
Good-bye, fare ye well!
The friends we are leaving we leave
With regret.
Good-bye, fare ye well!
Oh, hey, my lads, we’re homeward bound.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
’■Themistocles 11,500 tons, Sept. 9
♦Nestor . . 15,000 „ Oct. 6
ICeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 26
♦Anchises .. 10,000 „ Nov. 24
i'Euripides . , 15,000 „ Dec. 9
•First das? only. fFirst and third class.
{Cabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
) Joint
Agents
GREATEST OF THEM ALL./
&
Canadian Pacific offers vou
the world’s most romantic
and trouble-free journey
to England and Europe.
Fastest dr most luxurious
of Canadian Pacific Steamers
There's a new experience in store fo.
those fortunate enough to travel on the
new White “Empress of Britain”—latest
addition to the G.P.R. Atlantic Fleet—
last word in luxury—new and novel fea-
tures for comfort and enjoyment—celebrat-
ed C.P.R. service and cuisine. One deck
entirely for games De Luxe Cabins
and appointments. Sailings regularly on
the Canadian Pacific St. Lawrence route
to England. Write for illustrated litera-
ture to—- Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
6/31.2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
7 he Worlds Greatest Jravet System
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single-, two-, four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—STEEL SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents:
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents:
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & 00.,
Tel.: 87511. 247 George Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE Bd.
Contains everythin g a woman needs to know,
“Gad”: I often see inquiries in The
Bulletin’s Service column about the pros-
pects of work in the canegrowing districts.
I can answer positively that the prospects
are nil; and I have wrnlked the track from
Townsville to Mossman. The work has been
given to those who completed the cut last
year; any occasional vacancies are filled from
local unemployed. The opossum season is now
in full swing (for six weeks, from July 25).
This should give a leg-up to some few who
can buy an outfit and a license; but prices
are too high to last. North of Mossman
there is nothing. Beyond Cooktown there is
alluvial gold—perhaps—for such as have
the necessary capital to set themselves up
along the far reaches of the Palmer
River. North Queensland offers to the
penniless seeker for work little beyond the
best winter climate in the w’orld.
* * :ii *
“Narara” : Marooned in a northern N.S. W.
town by floods I entered into conversation
with a nine-year-old boy. He pointed out to
me how high the water had risen on the
occasion of a previous flood and detailed
the damage that had been done. I knew the
flood he referred to had taken place about
20 years ago, and remarked that he was too
young to remember it. “No,” he replied
regretfully, “I didn’t see it. That flood was
before I was got.”
* * * *
“Doc.”: Why don’t rabbiters make more
use of ferrets? Up here on the Monaro
(N.S.W.) the ground becomes hard as con-
crete in winter, and to touch a trap on a
frosty night is like picking up a hot poker
by the wrong end. One ferret will do the
work of a couple of dozen traps and is easier
to handle; when he is in action bunny almost
breaks his neck in his anxiety to evacuate the
premises. The only rabbit that refuses to
budge is one that has been evicted and has
found a pack of dogs waiting to give him a
warm welcome. If he succeeds in running
the gauntlet and getting to earth, he buries
his head in a blind corner of the burrow —
“smothers,” as the pugs say. At the end of
the first round, the ferret, his claws full of
raw material for felt hats, will usually come
to. the surface till the gong goes again. Most
things that crawl into burrows seem to hate
THE PESSIMIST.
"Don’t make so much blanky row, blokes, or you’ll get us chucked out.”
meeting the little red-eyed fury in the dark,
There was a case recently in which the
entrance of the albino was followed by the
hasty exit of ten rabbits, a rock-lizard and
—a bad last—a sluggish suake.
“Bad Australian”; “Pjck” (B. 5/S/’3l)
appears to have discovered an entirely new
species of wombat in those ferocious brutes
that tear intruding dingoes to shreds, and
run in mobs, with the bucks covering the
retreat when attacked. Why they permit
themselves to be “torn and mauled,” instead
of turning and rending their pursuers, is
not clear. The-only sort of wombat I have
met does not run in mobs of more than tw T o,
and when he is disturbed or pursued the
idea of fighting never enters his brain;
his one object is to get' to earth as
promptly as possible, and nothing but a
solid barrier will stop him. I have often
seen a wombat bore through three or four
kangaroo-dogs and reach home uninjured. The
hide of the w r ombat is abnormally tough and
cartilaginous, and the snapping bite of a
dingo would make little impression on it.
The only dog I ever knew to kill a wombat
single-handed was a half-bred bulldog. He
didn’t waste his time on the impenetrable
upper pai’ts—just took a firm grip of one
of the animal’s stubby forelegs, turned him
over, and got in his lethal work behind the
short ribs.
* * * *
“Pick”: Out on the stubble fields for a
first lesson in quail-hunting, the setter pup
displays a wonderful hereditary instinct.
Straiglitwmy he commences to sniff busily
amongst the grass tufts. As lie industri-
ously veers hither and thither in search of
something concerning which he has no former
knowledge, he presently crosses, the trail.
At once his hanging lips hungrily lap the
earth, and he follows with quivering excite-
ment. Then, when he sights the covey fur-
tively sneaking away, though quail are
things entirely strange to him, he sets him-
self motionless and rigid, with outstretched
nose pointing out the game. And though
a gun has never before been discharged over
his back, the instant the birds take flight
he hurriedly squats to escape the flying shot.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The epic of Fitz-
walter’s cat was recited to me the other day
by a man from Charleville (Q.). Fitz-
walter’s cat was a friend of Carter's
retriever, and their friendship was put
to the test when the Warrego, coming
down in flood, broke its banks and
spread over the
bridge. The cat,
'which had been
wandering far
afield, was cut off,
and the people who
assembled to see
the sight presented
by the waters pour-
ing over the bridge
saw pussy marooned
on a stump on the
other side of the
river. With the
water still rising,
it seemed doomed
to drown. So it
would have been
but for Carter’s
dog, which leaped into the surge (euu-
ningly going some distance up so that
the torrent might bear him down),
reached the stump, and, taking the cat
by the scruff of the neck, proceeded
to make the return journey. Thomas, hys-
terically objecting to being plunged into, cold
water, made the rescue difficult by strug-
gling and scratching, and for .some time it.
seemed that the battle with the waters was
hopeless. But the dog, almost at the last
THE SEX THAT KEEPS ITS HEAD.
GIRL FRIEND: “Darling, I think you’d better ’phone to your wife as soon as you can,
or she might think you’ve met. with an accident.”
gasp, struggled through. A few hours later
Puss, dried and happy, was seen licking the
scratches on the dog’s nose.
& # ❖
“J.W.W.”: Let me quarrel with “Bad
Australian’s” dictum (B. 29/7/’3l) that the
lyrebird has nothing original to put on
record, and that his notes resemble those
of the mopoke. It is only when the lyre-
bird becomes a fugitive in the vicinity of the
haunts of men that he loses his song, or,
rather, the finest notes in it. I have read
somewhere of the “loud and lofty bugle note
of Austral’s living lyre”; and another poet
.says, “His tone speaks of freedom.” I agree
with both descriptions, except that I
would call it a piping note. The further
from civilisation the more numerous are
these birds, and the grander is their song.
To describe it is beyond me. A musical
friend likened it to “some strange music
mingled with cathedral bells.” I would like
“Bad Australian” to be with me some day
in the mountain fastnesses of Gippsland,
where the lyrebird sings without restraint; I
could promise him something grand and
unforgettable.
* ❖ *
“Gumblegubbin”: If there were a prize for
the biggest nest among the world’s birds, the
jungle-fowl of North
Queensland would
have a walk-over.
Though it is only 31b.
in weight, it piles up
a regular skyscraper
of an abode. It starts
with an ordinary
mound the first sea-
son, but builds year
after year on the old
foundations till the
nest reaches a height
of over 12ft. and a
circumference of 40ft.
or 50ft. The colossus
is made to incubate an
average clutch of
seven eggs, each of
which is about twice
the size of the domes-
tic hen’s. The mat-
erial is, raked up from
many yards around,
and thrown into place
by the powerful feet.
Though the birds care-
fully tend the nest till
the eggs are hatched,
they don’t bother
about . the chicks,
which fend for them-
selves from the
moment they leave the
incubator. That is the reason of the big
egg; the youngster comes out strong and
full-feathered.
•!* =!= * *
“Wogamush”: A chronic grievance of the
Australian agriculturist is the difficulty of
obtaining land for settlement except at vast
expense. Brown Brother in certain parts
of New Guinea has solved the problem
simply. In the Sepik Valley there are large
grass areas permanently under water in
which the native lives in piled villages. There
is no local land for his crops, but the. Sepik,
a big and rapid river, has a habit of TvasL-
ing down, floating islands of earth
rich tropic jungles of the foothills. When
one of these is spied floating down there is
a general rush for it, and the party with
the fastest canoe and the heftiest wallop
takes possession and hoists the flag, all same
white man. The island is towed to the
village of its captor, and, having been solidly
anchored, is planted wuth taro or maize, the
“land” running from anything to a yard
square to a quarter of an acre.
■i * * *
“Buttenderry” : If “Bangtail” (B. 29/7/’3l)
ever contemplates buying a cattle-run on
a walk-in-walk-out basis, he would be well
advised to insist on a bangtail muster and
leave aeroplanes alone. I know of runs
where the best of counters would be lucky to
see, let alone count, 10 p.c. of the cattle
from the air, particularly if the attempt were
made in the heat of the day; and the beasts
are accustomed to ’planes, too. Moreover,
•such cattle as he managed to count would
bo merely cattle, whereas quality and general
condition of the herd, number of fats, for-
ward and backward stores and so forth are
of prime importance. Such details can best
be ascertained by the old-fashioned bangtail
muster.
* * # *
“Borom”: One finds odd assortments
of people on the road and travelling in empty
trucks in Queensland nowadays. At Bunda-
berg I struck a trio who had .set out from
Sydney about three months before. One was
a “sport,” another had been a school-
master, and the third was a sheet-metal
worker. In their adversity they had
found something in common, and they were
very loyal pals. The metal worker frequently
earned a few bob at odd jobs in the towns
through which they passed, and their pro-
gress was interrupted only when the ex-
dominie got three days for riding on a train
without a ticket, being the only one caught.
The others waited until he was out again,
and then the three went on their way to-
gether towards Cairns.
* * * #
“Paul C.” ; “McNoon” himself (8.28/7/’3l)
gets astray in his quarrel with the writer
of “Cattle Camp” by saying that the curl of a
cow is the correct spot to aim at. The curl
is below the eyes in some beasts, between
the eyes in others, and above them in others,
while in a few there is no visible
curl at all. A spot in the centre of the skull
midway between the line of the eyes and
the top of the head is the safest mark.
* * * *
“P.A.S.”; The goats which abound in
Richmond (N.Q.) display a considerable
amount of social instinct. In the morn-
ing parties of them can be seen wan-
dering out from the town to their favorite
feeding grounds. These “pushes” are recruited
from numerous back yards and each has its
rendezvous where its members meet. Late-
comers are awaited for a reasonable time, and
when all are present the army moves off. At
night the goats return in bodies, each to
its own rendezvous, and then break up into
various small parties and make for home.
One black goat always calls in at the Royal
Hotel for beer. He w T alks into the bar
and puts his chin on the counter and waits.
If water is offered to him, he will not drink
it. This fellow also enjoys eating cigarettes.


HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
JA>r
COUGH*
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Estaolishea isiz.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. j
V. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.U.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
ď
f
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., C.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and, Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
CROSS-EXAMINATION.
“You must always be truthful and honest, John. As you grow up you’ll fine that
it pays.”
“Daddy, is that why mummy’s always telling us now that we can’t afford it?”
HYPOTHETICAL ENDINGS.
“If I were hanged on the highest hill, I know
whose love would follow me still. —I am, etc.,
Mother of Nine.” — “S. M. Herald,” correspondent.
A few more:—
If I were writted for half I owe I’d file
my schedule, that I know.—Yours frankly,
Creditor op Hundreds.
If I’d known about Lang, well so help me
bob I wouldn’t have taken the bally job.—
Regretfully, Governor of Millions.
I never suspected Stanley Bruce. If I
had—however, what’s the use? —Philosophi-
cally yours,
Owner of Twenty-five Thousand.
I feel like drowning the A.F.A. If only
I had it up Khancoban way!—Yours for
office, Angler of Dozens.
“The Bishop said that church people would take
the sacrifice necessitated by the Conference Plan in
a Christian spirit.” —Sydney paper.
Feeling that they will be better off for
their conversion.
THE WEEK’S DEEP THOUGHTS.
(From the “Daily Flapper.”)
“Marriage is the union of two persons of
opposite sex. That fact must he faced.” —
Divorce Judge.
“To be is life in being; negation is mere
nothingness.”—“ New Thought” lecturer.
“After all, the man is just the grown-up
boy; the girl the mother of to-morrow.” —
Governor at Boy Scout rally.
“We are here for a time; death comes at
the end.” — Gowl, M.L.A.
“Mothers are mothers all the world over.”
— Rev. Bonchcad.
J. V. D.
* *
“The sum of £3OO in notes found in a park was
handed to Sydney police.”
A ease of the coppers taking care of the
pounds.
MR. WIIIDDON OPENS HIS MAIL.
“My late husband was an inveterate
gambler, and died in attempting to drink a
quart of O.P. rum for a w'ager, and I think
it only respectful to his memory to spend
his insurance money in your lottery. Will
you, therefore, please send me ticket num-
ber 7205. which is the number of dud bookies’
tickets which he left as his estate? — Agatha
Agate.”
“Having fallen heir to a considerable
weekly sum in alimony, I desire to invest
part of same in your enterprise. I enclose
order on the Prothonotary for £2 12s. 6d.
weekly for ten tickets until further notice. —
Flo Flam.”
“Me ole man ses your a sport so I want
to arst you to let me have a fly in the lottery
for which I will cut your lawn evry Sataday
for a munth, and do odd jobs after skule.—
Tommy Miggle.”
“As I know Jack Lang is only too anxious
to foster the goods standard, I am forward-
ing seven dozen empties in payment for a
lottery ticket, value of same being based on
the ruling trade price of ninepence per dozen
f.o.b. Darlinghurst.— Angus O’Cohen.”
* *
The scandalmongering in most Austra-
lian suburbs is over the fence.
* *
“In this great State of N.S.W., 100,000 have no
work, and tens of thousands have no money.”
— Henley, M.L.A.
And they’re only two of the stubborn nils
that N.S.W. flesh is heir to.
* *
“Rev. R. B. S. Hammond has been made a canon
of St. Andrew’s Cathedral.”
It should help him to go great guns in the
anti-liquor campaign.
Many touching scenes have been witnessed
between Premier Lang and the Loan Council.
* H-
ART NOTES.
The exhibition at the Macquarie-street
Galleries is causing intense interest among
connoisseurs. J. T. Lang has concentrated,
as usual, on busts. As a Trades Hall artist
laughingly remarked in his native Russian,
“Jack will make a bust of anything.” His
most important contribution is the bust of
a civil servant. The work rests on a bank-
ruptcy notice, and the impression of som-
Q.E.D.
POET: “Are you the editor, sir?”
EDITOR: “Yes. What do you want?”
POET: “Oh, I just wanted to put these poems in your waste-paper
basket for you!”
nolence is skilfully conveyed. A controversy
has been raging as to whether the. lassitude
represents the subject’s normal working
expression or anxiety about pay-day. It is
understood that the “The Civil Servant”
was sold for a large figure. Two still-life
studies, “A Shadier Loaf,” by Mark Gosling,
and “Tall Poppies,” by J. T. Lang, came in
for adverse criticism, and were withdrawn.
Reggie Weaver’s “Sabbath Afternoon” is
literally crowded with figures. Although the
title suggests peace, the effect is militaristic.
A bulky, uniformed figure stands out in the
foreground representing a police inspector
accurately computing the Nationalist crowd
at “between 50,000 and 100,000.” A self-
portrait, “The Rajah,” from the brush of
the same artist, is done entirely in black,
the background being the 1700 ft. level at
Rothbury at midnight. Its effect is striking.
“The Ejection,” by A. A. E. E. Y. Reid,
has been carried out forcibly, Almost flung
out, as one might say.
Other pictures in an interesting exhibi-
tion are “The Rate Increase,” a w r ater-color
by Tom ’Enley, showing an alderman’s fight
against “hinnikertus hincreases”: “Trout
Fishing, a Week-end Idyll,” by T. R. Bavin
—another water-color; and “The Appoint-
ment,” a remarkable study on hide, by
A. D. Kay.
S. W. K.
EASY MAGIC.
“Never tell ma there’s nothing in forchin’-
telling, Mrs. Woozle,” sobbed the bereaved
mother. “Only larst month poor young Bert
went to one of ’em, and she says, ‘I see
corpses in the crystal,’ she says. ‘Yours is
among ’em. You’re on a road surrounded by
dead and dying strangers. I see a crowd.
Police. Blood. They’re taking you to the
morgue.’ ” .
“Did she say when it ’ud happen?”
“Said something about bewaring of week-
ends —an’ sure enough it happened uv a
week-end.”
“Call that magic, Mrs. Glubbs! The
woman was prophesying on a cert. Young
Bert must ’ave went to see her on his new
motor-bike.”
* *
“One big woolly dog at the sale greeted a visitor
with a series of deep bays.”— “Herald,”
Better than deep bights, anyhow.
¥
CONTRETEMPS.
The Friends of the Soviet Union were about
to stage the first of their series of proletarian
plays, “Bourgeois Blood,” by Drzmkszl Serf-
ski, organising secretary of the Organising
Secretaries’ Union. This was to be the Chal-
lenge to the capital-
ist i c productions
patronised by the
bourgeoisie —the an-
swer to the sicken-
ing themes of the
loves of an _ effete
aristocracy, dissemi-
nated in the luxuri-
ous palaces of enter-
tainment where
dwell the gilded
floor - colonels and
polychromatic major-
domos of capitalism.
A play this for the
workers by the work-
ers. A good sound
theme of the soul-
searing battle for
class freedom put up
by a journeyman
plumber.
The manager,
Henry Smith (late
Heinrich Schmidt),
glanced through the
peephole of the cur-
tain, and loyally
suppressed a capital-
istic thrill at the
thought of the box-
office receipts. Sud-
denly a commotion
in the wings attracted his appalled atten-
tion. He hurried to where the stage
manager was frantically waving his
hands. “Vos iss wrong, Jock?” The
stage manager was purple with emotion.
“Wrong!” he shouted. “I’d ha’ ye know
that yon bletty scene-shifters are on .strike for
the union rates of pay, the disloyal mon-
grels !”
* #
Taxpayers usually find their return forms
so complicated that they don’t know how to
proceed. Hence the assumption that the
right thing to do is the Treasury.
* *
Touching that report about the N. S.
Wales Treasury being broke, we are credibly
informed that there’s nothing in it.
SYMPATHY.
“Well, what if I did get ’em baggy? I hate
feeling tight in my pyjamas!”
“Yes, dear—how uncomfortable you must
have been last night!”
“Horses go to the racecourses without losing
money. ’ ’ — “Referee.”
It’s unfortunate that punters haven’t
horse-sense.
# *
“The average man, even when he is a regular
member of the congregation, gives very little atten-
tion to the affairs of his church.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Yet he is usually ready to give his wife
to the cause..
OFFICIAL LOGIC.
“Workers are complaining bitterly of the levies
made on their diminished earnings by Trades Hall
officials.”
The wage-plug’s greatest enemy.
All socialists agree,
Is Capital (see Mr. Marx).
Who, then, can fail to see
That you will benefit yourself
By handing yours to me?
It causes toilers to suspect
The wisdom, worth and wit
Of those who call on them to strike.
So mind you don’t omit
To pass the poison on to me.
I am immune to it.
Be brave! Thrust Capital aside!
Do it without delay,
Regardless of what octopi
And usurers may say.
And, for the Cause’s sake, be sure
You thrust it, in my way.
Z V-
“Since Captain Phillip landed in Sydney Harbor
there has been a succession of efforts to settle
Australia.”
And now Jack Lang’s having another try.
“Australian long-term prisoners are now treated
better than ever before.”
As the saying goes, there’s no time like
the present.
¥ *
THE LOUD lIOYSTER.
“An evil odor in the restaurant was traced to
bad oysters.”— Police-court report.
An honest oyster, gay or sad,
Is absolutely dumb ;
But let one wander to the bad
And though it may not talk, my lad,
By heavens it will hum!
H. M.
JUST ONE D—D QUEUE AFTER
ANOTHER.
“Sydney seems to be all queues nowadays.”
—“Sun.”
The Sydneyite’s is a most arduous life.
It’s ruled by conditions that harass the
soul.
He gets up each day, says good-bye to his
wife,
And hurries along to queue up for the dole.
The dole safely drawn, he recalls with
disgust
That lottery tickets, each democrat’s due,
Are dealt with on similar lines —that he
must.
To get one, line up at the end of a queue.
He queues up outside the Assembly, and
then.
Desirous of getting some sport before dark,
He walks to a tramrqueuc of women and
men,
And joins in a queue to play golf at Moore
Park.
H. S.


S’
\u\TO\\WW
i
/////M///1
1 T 1 ? 1
ww
m
il
is
I
V /
L
m
W M,
-jmk
l:
. 4 * *f- •//
~A * '■‘•-^ /
*4;
s!■', \ x i r ’ ■:•;!<* ,
mUIJ/l/U:-;. ...-— i»H*
&5S
“ r'fj
W)
»
1:1% . 'WM
»•" •'. / 1 ’ i, m ■l l i. ■' &> HHHav
f i v/-W. / v: $'
The Builder of
Good Health!
OCIENTIFIC analysis has measured
the energy-producing value of Steak,
Bread,. Butter, Potatoes, Eggs, Milk,
Apples and Grapes.
Tooth’s KB Lager contains the food
value of all these staple foods in con-
centrated form.
When enjoying a glass of K B Laget
you are giving your body the essential
food elements necessary to strengthen
brain and muscle.
g 11 111 Ip ip
I fyi'’
Drink KB Lager
for the pleasure
of drinking and
the good health it
gives you .


Throw on another log,
Light up your pipe, old lad,
Draw up that cosy chair—
What if the weather’s bad ?
Wild winter winds may blow
O’er mountain, bush and moor;
We’re safe from coughs and colds
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.— Advt.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
"1
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C °ia
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
>- m
6
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY.
I
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund an<l Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
Office*: 4< Bridie Street. Syfney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
LOW-GRADE WOOL.
“Murrawong”: In N. S. Wales last season
a lot of low-grade wool was sent to auction
which should never have left the shearing-
shed. Some owners market every available
thing that comes off the sheep, obviously
without realising that some of it will not
even pay its own freight.
Before consigning such lines as low crutch-
ings, stained pieces and heavy, low-grade
locks, a man should balance probable return
—based on last year's prices—against mar-
keting costs. Add the cost of woolpacks,
pressing, cartage to rail, railway freight,
cartage to store, insurance and commission,
and compare it with the price last year's
corresponding line sold at. The difference in
the two amounts will supply the answer to
whether they are worth consigning.
The districts chiefly concerned are the
Riverina and the West, especially where long-
distance transport between shearing-shed and
railway is entailed. Practically all these
wools have a very low scoured yield. They
are loaded with dust and sand, and this year
the floods and abnormal rainfall are adding a
big percentage of mud. Where there is a
scour available, low-yielding wools should be
treated there; but if this can’t be done, a
little arithmetic on the lines proposed will
save the sheepowner’s cash, and will indirectly
help him by easing the market of a glut of
low-grade wool.
LABOR COSTS ON SHEEP-RUNS.
“Barcoo Bill”: The statements made by
“A.H.S.” (B. 29/7/’3l) should not be
allowed to pass unchallenged. His figures
may be correct, but, if so, lie stands self-
confessed as inefficient. In the first place,
allowing an average of 81b. of wool per head
of sheep shorn (in Central Queensland we
average over that) his returns are, for 1926-
27, 1816. per pound, and, for 1930-31, 7|d.
per pound ; in both cases considerably below
the Australian average for those years. In
the second place, his shearing costs, based
on Queensland award rates —the highest in
the Commonwealth —and allowing for his
shearing being done *by a contractor, who
does not work for nothing, should be £426
and £252 for the two years in question,
instead of £530 and £326. In the third place,
his wages are frankly absurd.
“A.H.S.’s” flock is a one-man flock really.
But even if, making all possible allowances,
he employed during 1926-27 three men at
£3 10s. per week and tucker for each at 255.,
his wages would amount to only £741 instead
of £llBB. During 1930-31 his wages bill
should not have exceeded £312. Those figures
allow for all labor costs of repairs and main-
tenance of improvements, and leave “A. 11.5.”
with nothing whatever to do but “manage”
a flock of between 6000 and 9000 sheep—a
boundary-rider’s job only.
The pastoralist is, Heaven knows, on a
bad enough wicket, but wild statements such
as those made by “A. 11.5.” do the industry
a disservice. Given reasonably good country
and an average flock plus average economy
and efficiency, the labor costs in wrnol pro-
duction, including shearing, should not have
exceeded, for 1926-27, 3d. per pound, and,
for 1930-31, 2d. per pound, which, compared
with wool prices, justify the description of
them as negligible.
FALSE FAVORITES.
“Azac”: Increase the number of bushels
harvested per acre and you reduce costs
per bushel in proportion. One of the
biggest factors in ensuring high yields
is to grow, the variety most suited to
the particular district. The difference in
yield between the best and the second-best
varieties in a district is often over 30 per
cent. That being the case, no one will dis-
agree with wheat-expert Clayton’s remarks
at the annual conference of the N.S.W.
Agricultural Bureau in which he drew atten-
tion to a number of old favorites that have
lingered too long on the wheat-growing stage.
According to the latest N.S.W. figures
available, Federation is grown on nearly
700,000 acres each year. Improved varieties,
such as Ford, Numba, Yandilla King,
Duchess, Exquisite, Dundee, Burrill, Nabawa
and Baroota Wonder are capable of out-
yielding it in practically every part of the
wheat belt. No doubt sentiment has a lot
to do with the grower’s determination to
cling to an old favorite, but sentiment has no
place in business, and farming is a very seri-
ous business these times. For the last three
years in the Cowra district Federation has
yielded 3 9 bushels per acre, as compared with
29 bushe.ls from Dundee; in Trangie it has
yielded 21 bushels, as against 25 from Baroota
Wonder. Nabawa, Dundee, Burrill. Baringa
and Ford have also outyielded Federation at
Trangie. Even at Condobolin the old
favorite has had to go under to Bobin,
Nabawa, Duri, Waratah, Gluyas and Girral.
Another variety whose popularity is not
justified by performance is Turvey, which
is still sown on about 280,000 acres. This
is very popular in Wagga, but any of the
following could well displace it in that dis-
trict on the score of yield: Yandilla King,
Duchess, Exquisite, Nizam, Baringa, Numba
and Ford. Yield trials at Temora during
the last five years have pointed to Yandilla
King, Duchess, Burrill, Cowan, Craboon,
Exquisite, Ford and Baringa being more pro-
ductive in that section of N. S. Wales.
Furthermore, Turvey is outdone by a number
of drought-resistant varieties when it comes
to selecting a suitable variety for the drier
districts.
Canberra, with an area of 236,000 acres, is
yet another false favorite. Varieties less
susceptible to disease and better-yielders
include Bobin, Duri, Gular, Rajah, Bald
Early, Waratah, Nabawa and Aussie
for the Wagga district; Bobin, Duri,
Waratah, Aussie and Nabawa for the
Temora district; Bobin, Cookapoi, Duri,
Nabawa, Silver Bart and Waratah at
Trangie; and Cookapoi and Duri at Con-
dobolin. It is likely to be years, however,
before Canberra is displaced from the
western fringe of the wheat belt.
Bena, with an annual sowing of about
195,000 acres, Penny (126,000), Union
(108,000), Steinwedel and Comeback (3000
each) rank at present far too prominent.
Steinwedel and Comeback should not be
grown at all. On the other hand, the
areas under Nabawa (203 000 acres),
Baroota Wonder (9000). Duri (6000),
Bobin (4000) and Ford (3000) could, with
advantage to the industry and to the indi-
vidual grower, be greatly increased, prefer-
ably at the expense of Federation, Canberra,
Penny and Union.
THE FIRST HARVESTING MACHINES.
The International Harvester Co. has
struck an attractive bronze medallion “to
commemorate the in-
vent i o n of the
world’s first reaper,
by Cyrus Hall Mc-
Cormick in 1831.”
The Americans
(McCormick was an
American) have
always used the word
“reaper” to mean
what Australians
called a mowing
machine. Differences
o f climate were
mainly responsible
for that: in Aus-
tralia we can use
the stripper all
through the harvest,
whereas in most
other places cutting
and threshing are
called for. Hence
also while others
made all the most important inventions
regarding the mower (their reaper) and
similar machines, Australians have done by
far the most important work in connection
with the stripper, the stripper-harvester and
the header.
McCormick was not the first man to
make a mowing machine, but he was the first
to make one of the type with which Australia
first became familiar in the ’sixties and
’seventies—the knives consisting of tri-
angular sections, fastened to a bar moving
rapidly from right to left, in pointed
“fingers,” to assist in the cutting. Some years
before McCormick’s machine was made a
Scotch clergyman had produced one which
was fairly successful: with it .the cutting was
done by a shearing action. The McCormick
idea was, however, much the better, and it
was soon generally adopted.
As will be seen from the illustration, the
first machine was simply for cutting down
the corn. Soon various attachments were
introduced; and in the ’seventies the Eng-
lish machines, which pretty well had the
run of the Australian market at the start —
Samuelson’s and others —had a tilt, worked
by the foot of the driver, which gathered up
the hay (it was never used for wheat in
Australia) and dropped it in a convenient
quantity ,for sheaving. The next step was
a travelling belt, which carried the bundles
to a platform, part of the machine, where
two or three men bound them. But this was
too cumbersome. Next came Walter A.
Wood’s wire-tie; but though that was pro-
bably all right for wheat for threshing, it
was no good for hay for the chaffeutter,
and there was great rejoicing when an Eng-
lish inventor (Appleby) made a string
binder.
Our own reaper (or stripper) was first
used by John Ridley (who had received much
help from his neighbor J. W. Bull) near
Adelaide in 1843; but he did not patent it
or try to make a commercial success of it.
However, it is the basis of all stripper-
harvesters in modern use.
AN IMPROVISED SUPER.-SCATTERER.
“Tumbe Munda”: Having had a break-
down with the top-dresser this season, I
rigged up an arrangement so that I could
scatter the super, by hand. I took a 14ft.
length of No. 4 steel wire and befit it round
twice, so that it formed an oval two strands
thick. This frame was 2ft. Sin. one way,
18 inches the other way, and 7ft. in circum-
ference. I bent a portion of one side inwards
so that it would fit round my waistcoat. I
bound the wires of the frame with a finer
wire, slit a super.-bag down one side and
stitched the cut edge on the frame, rounding-
off the hanging corners at each end.
I had my hopper. Fixing two straps to
the concave side I crossed them on my back,
over my shoulders and straight down in front
to the opposite edge of the frame. One
strap is a fixture; the other buckles at one
end. I now had a hopper slung in front of
me, held in position by the straps. I pegged
out my ground in 7-J-chain lengths, and, put-
ting about 701 b. of super, in my hopper, I
started off sowing with both hands. I took
half a chain per strip, | of an acre per round,
and found I could dress 3 acres per hour.
The hopper is hung in the shed for future
use. I have several small paddocks where
it is inconvenient to work a broadcasting-
lorry, and the manure-spreader is an awk-
ward thing to take through gates, so my
hopper and hands will do these paddocks in
future.
There are many small holders who do not
feel justified in purchasing a machine. They
could adopt this method with benefit.
CROSSING DAIRY BREEDS.
“Ayrshire” : Many dairymen hold that by
crossing two breeds (say, Jersey with Frie-
sian) the ideal dairy cow can be evolved.
However, attempts to combine the high milk-
production of one breed with the high butter-
fat content of another have proved unsuc-
cessful so far as production of a new
true-breeding type is concerned. Though the
first crosses are fairly uniform and inter-
mediate between the parent breeds, second
CYRUS H. McCORMICK AND THE FIRST REAPER.
and third generations are likely to be
extremely variable, both in production and
type. Over a period of years greater suc-
cess in increasing yield and quality may be
expected when individuals of the same breed
and strain are mated. Then questions of
uniformity and breed type do not arise to
complicate matters with the same degree of
intensity.
A study of breeding and production
records points to the conclusion that both
sire and dam contribute almost equally to
the milk-yielding and butter-fat qualities of
their daughters. The grand-dams also con-
tribute about equally, whereas the maternal
grandsire appears to have distinctly greater
influence than the paternal grandsire.
The significance of this for practical pur-
poses may be stated thus. In the selection
of a herd bull take into consideration the
records of (1) the bull’s progeny, (2) his
dam, (3) his sire’s daughters. When select-
ing a heifer the significance of records in
order of importance is (I) her full sister’s,
(2) her dam’s,' (3) that of her sire’s dam.
When grading up an ordinary dairy herd
(mixed breeds) this is vital: once the breed
of the pure-herd sire is settled stick to that
breed; and, provided your herd is improving,
stick to the same strain of that breed.
apple CROPS.
'Disc Harrow”: One of the chief troubles
ot commercial fruitgrowers is the extreme
unevenness of cropping, a heavy year being
followed by a light year with grim regu-
larity. Not only does this oblige the grower
to maintain plant and machinery which is
not used to the full in light years, but it
also results in gluts. Trees planted in suc-
cessive years fall into line with the others,
mainly because of occasional severe pest
attacks, which strip the whole district and
ensure a heavy setting the following year.
In a recent address given by Mr. J. Ward.
Superintendent of Horticulture, to Tyabb
(Vic.) growers, it was emphasised that the
grower’s chief help in this matter is to be
found in liis pruning methods. Vic.’s pro-
duction figures for the past seven years
show how serious the problem is. They are:
Bushels.
1925- 2,063,214
1926- 543,106
1927- 3,712,350
1928- 626,294
1929- 2,779,107
1930-31 was light, and a heavy crop is
expected next year.
Pruning should be carried out with an eye
to. crops two years ahead, and a severe
thinning-out programme is advised this
winter. This is always to be recommended
when a heavy setting is expected, as it not
only enables the tree to conserve its energies
for the following year, but lessens the quan-
tity to be handled in rush seasons and
increases the average size. Small apples are
generally not worth the harvesting in glut
years.
Mr. Ward recommends, as an aid to blos-
soming, lib. or 21b. of sulphate of ammonia
applied to each tree about a fortnight before
the blossoms open. Care must be taken,
however, to prevent trees over-blossoming
this year if a reasonable crop is wanted in
the succeeding year.
CAULIFLOWERS AND ROTATION.
“Alf Alpha”: There are several vegetable
crops which repay special attention. The
cauliflower is one of them. The plant is a
gross feeder, responding well to heavy appli-
cations of natural organic manure—stable,
sheep or fowl. It is not always possible
to obtain a quantity of these fertilisers
economically, in which case the artificial
product must be used.
A matter of paramount importance is a
suitable rotation. No plant resents continu-
ous cropping quicker than the cauliflower.
Farm practice and environment will decide
the best rotation, but the one suggested is
peas, potatoes, cauliflowers. Some growers
use swedes instead of potatoes, and I recall
an orchardist in north-eastern Vic. who used
barley in the rotation instead of a root crop.
The crop is grown in the spring and
autumn; generally speaking, the latter
season’s crop is the most successful. The soil
should receive a dressing of scwt. per acre of
blood and bone manure (in the absence of
a natural manure, increase this dressing to
lOcwt. per acre), broadcast on the culti-
vated soil prior to planting the young plants,
which are dibbled in with lewt. of super,
per acre. As soon as the plants begin to
grow they should receive a dressing of lewt.
of sulphate of ammonia per acre, broadcast
between the rows. Frequent scuffling in the
early stages of growth is one of the secrets
of success, because it keeps the plants mov-
ing. Another important factor is the strain
of seed, which, no matter how excellent it
is. can only be kept up to scratch by careful
selection and re-selection. During harvest-
ing, and when cleaning up after the last
picking, remember that the dairyman would
be sufficiently interested in the “cauli” butts
(which make excellent cow fodder) to place
a proposition before you whereby the im-
portant job of cleaning up is made to pay
for itself. If ploughed in the butts decom-
pose slowly; moreover, the danger of dis-
ease infestation is for ever present when this
course is adopted.
AN EGG BOARD IN DEFENCE.
From J. Hutton, secretary of the Queens-
land Egg Board :
In former years the Queensland Egg Board used
cases made from Queensland pine for exportation of
eggs to Great Britain. London realisations for Aus-
tralian eggs then ranged from 18s. to 20s. per long
hundred (10 dozen), small lots exceeding those
figures occasionally. With increasing competition and
the world-wide decline in prices it became impera-
tive for the Q.E.B. to effect economies where pos-
sible, especially as Queensland egg-production costs
are the highest in Australia, because of the prices
which poultrymen have to pay for wheat and mill
offals.
Prior to each export season the board has obtained
quotations for cases for the overseas pack. Owing
to the higher prices asked for pine and the vital neces-
sity for a reduction in packing costs, it was com-
pelled to contract for cases made from cheaper
timber. Hence the use of spruce and hemlock boxes,
criticised by a recent Bulletin correspondent. The
cases in question have been highly approved on the
other side.
At a conference convened by the Forestry Board
at which representatives of all sections of the timber
(Continued on Page 26.)


Full Stomachs
do not mean
\
X
SU.
V
4)'
a
vlitf'
;
M
v
;)
r
Si~
r—
ilk pails
THE reason why a good cow on grass and
farm-grown crops does not give twice as
much milk, is that her stomach will not hold
sufficient of these bulky foods.
To get enough raw material into the cow for
top production she must have some concentrated
food.
By adding only 1 lb. of Meggitt’s Linseed Meal to
each cow’s ordinary ration, you are giving her the
milk -producing equivalent of an extra 301bs.
green com which her stomach could not hold.
A good handful
of Meggitt’s
i weighs approx-
imately i -lb. —
and costs i bd.
u§
A Bigger Factory Cheque
for August!
Try it for yourself. —Get a few
bags of “Meggitt’s” from your
local factory or produce store.
Feed a good handful night and
morning with an equal quantity of
bran. You’ll see results in the milk
pail within two days.
CALVES
Meggitt’s Linseed
Meal, scalded with
boiling water and
mixed with skim
milk at the rate
of 2 ozs. per day
—rising to 4 ozs.
per day makes
the best and
cheapest calf food
procurable.
MEGGITTS
LINSEED OIL MEAL
b
T FREE
Dooklet
f To MEGGITT LTD.,
Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney.
Advisory Dept. 8.2.
If you would like advice on a balanced ration
send particulars of pasture and present
ration.


' ?<>/
j
(f
,->•
ft
.
It slips on. . . supple and
light!
For close, easy fit, and extra dura-
bility, horsemen all over Australia
favor this Abbey Riding Boot. The
sole is not thick or heavy. . . .but is
surprisingly tough. The sleek calf
upper is lined throughout with soft
leather, and has strong elastic insets
at ankle. It curves over the instep
arch.... that’s the secret of its per-
fect fit.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF.. 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF... 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY, BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 241
A lesson from Germany—how the
Lang Government may be ousted.
Here’s a chance for the Riverina
Movement.
See last Saturday’s “ Barrier Miner.”
This is the Far West Daily that all the people
read every day. The only daily newspaper that
all the settlers see and all the Broken Hill
people buy every day.
NATURE is a stern taskmistress if
you disregard her. The first
command is to keep a clean
open system so that disease cannot get
a foothold. Constipation is a deadly
menace. Reasonable exercise and the
help of Figsen at the slightest sign of
constipation will keep your system
working cleanly and well. Figsen, the
gentle laxative, is a splendid precau-
tion against eliminiative troubles, does
not purge or gripe nor does it create
the “medicine habit.” No unpleasant
after effects. Equally effective for
adults and children. Pleasant to take
and absolutely effective.
TO®.
FIGSEN
m
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail- .
ment J
Sold only by
Chemists
THE
lIMITCH
U 111 lEI II
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsuranceseffected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
■ Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. 11. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
If any illustration in ‘‘The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Special Announcement
to Farmers !
Due chiefly to the low price of wheat, the demand
for agricultural implements has been greatly curtailed
during the past twelve months. As a result we still
have ample stocks of practically all lines of machines
and implements in our warehouses throughout
Australia.
Just as rapidly as any particular line (the importation
of which has been prohibited) is sold out, we will be
in a position to replace it with locally manufactured
machines and implements. This policy will be
continued until all machines and implements
affected by the embargo are replaced, and many
other machines and implements that we have not
previously handled will be added to the IHC line
of farm operating equipment.
Adhering to our established policy as manufacturers
for 100 years, spare parts will be supplied for all
machines and implements of every kind and
description that we have sold in Australia just as
long as there are any of these machines and
implements in use.
International Harvester Company
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE
PERTH
ADELAIDE
industry were present, the opinion was expressed
that high stumpage or royalty charges were respon-
sible to a great extent for the high cost of the logs
to the miller, and in consequence of timber for build-
ing and other purposes. This in all probability has
some bearing on the fact that the board has been
unable to procure competitive prices for suitable
cases made of Queensland pine. Amongst the quota-
tions considered there were several for pine cases
at prices ranging up to sixpence per case more than
the price at which the board made its contract for
the approaching season. One Brisbane firm was in-
formed that, as logs for building timber were not
being cut to any great extent, tops for case-making
would not be available. Another firm also stated
that there is an acute shortage of tops for case-
making. The conference appointed a committee to
examine the whole question, and it is hoped that it
will be able to submit recommendations which will
enable makers of pine boxes, etc., to quote prices
within the means of prospective buyers.
The Q.E.B. still uses large quantities of pine
boxes for local and inter-State traffic. Its members are
as desirous of using Queensland material as any
other section of the community, but it had no alter-
native but to procure for its overseas operations the
cheapest suitable packing case which could be
obtained, world’s parity being all that can be ex-
pected for the eggs.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Will molasses grass thrive on the
North Coast of N.S.W.? (2) Any good
for milk productionf (3) I have a hill pad-
dock brushed and will ftre\ it in the spring.
Would you recommend the sowing of molasses
grass in the burn? (4) Is it likely to prove
a pest? —-4829.
(1) It should grow all right, but is not
recommended for pastures. (2) No. It has a
peculiar odor, and tests in N.S.W. show
that stock will not eat the grass when pas-
palum is available. (3) For reasons given
above, no. (4) No.
Can you suggest a better fodder for pigs
than maize, suitable to grow on irrigated
land in Vic? What about soy beans, rice
or cowpeas ? —4894.
Cow grass or soy beans would not thrive
in your district, and high water charges
would probably make rice production too
expensive. You would be wise to rely on
maize and grain sorghums.
(1) Would rich river flats in the Nagam-
bie (Vio.) district be suitable for hop-grow-
ing? (2) What equipment is necessary for
planting? (3) General prospects of the
industry ? —4924.
(1) Probably unsuitable owing to droughts
and frosts. (2) Sets, procurable from Pan-
look Bros., Eurobin, are planted in rows
10ft. x 10ft., and are later trellised on poles
or wires 12ft. high. Heavy manuring is
essential to success, up to one ton of com-
plete manure per acre being used. Kilns for
curing have to be erected. (2) The market
for hops is not good.
(1) What percentage of sodium sulphide
should be used to remove wool from merino
sheepskins? (2) Best thickening agent? (3)
Does lime assist the sulphide to help the wool
come from the basil easily, or does it merely
form a thickening agent? (4) What instru-
ment is used to determine the strength of
sulphide sodium solution? (5) How long
should sheepskins be soaked before painting?
(6) Would it be of advantage to soak them
in warm water with some scouring soap added
before painting? —4B97.
(1) Depends on type of skin, climatic con-
ditions, etc. Heavily-woolled skins, or those
that are fatty, require a stronger solution
than lighter-woolled, while skins from young
sheep could be satisfactorily treated with a
weaker solution. Again, for convenience of
working, the time intervening between the
painting and pulling operations can be regu-
lated by the strength of the solution. The
stronger the solution the more this time is
reduced. An average strength is 101 b.
sodium sulphide to 10 gallons of water. (2)
Slacked lime. (3) It contributes to the de-
velopment of the desired chemical action.
Furthermore, it absorbs and retains moisture.
(4) Test specific gravity with an ordinary
hydrometer. The strength quoted should
show between 1.064 and 1.070. (5) The
skins must be soaked quite as thoroughly as
in the case of sweating. The drier the
condition of the skin the longer the period
of immersion in the soaks. (6) No.
I have a horse with mange extending from
the earn to the tail , In the summer rub-
bing, caused by the itch, makes large sores.
Cause and cure? —4978.
The trouble is Queensland itch, which is
most difficult to treat. Consult a vet.
Cure for a light saddle-horse which has a
stone-bruised hind heel? —4929.
If there is any sign of suppuration, the
foot should be placed in a hot antiseptic
bath, the part thoroughly saturated and
pared or probed. If there is evidence of a
channel of pus, it should be opened, free
drainage allowed, and the wound swabbed
with tincture of iodine. Afterwards apply
cotton-wool and bandage. Dress every second
day. After healing, pressure on the part
should be relieved by careful shoeing, a three-
quarter shoe being advisable.
My Jersey heifer, otherwise in good health
and giving ample milk, coughs four or five
times a day, very seldom more than three
coughs at a time. Is the symptom serious?
—5Oll.
Can’t say without examination. Get a
vet. to have a look at the animal. If tuber-
culosis is suspected but not definitely diag-
nosed, the tuberculin test can be applied.
If the trouble is only a local affection such
as laryngitis, treatment can be prescribed.
(1) Symptoms of a cow that has been
blown on clover and not discovered until she
has got down with the complaint, arid proper
treatment? (2) Considering that so many
cattle die through being blown on clover, why
is it not declared a noxious plant? —3B2s.
(1) The abdomen becomes greatly dis-
tended, particularly on the left side, and
the cow shows distressed respiration. An
animal so affected should be tapped with a
trocar and canula on the left side at a point
about a span in length in front of the angle
of the haunch, and a similar distance below
the lumbar vertebrae. The operation is best
done by a vet. (2) Clover is a very valuable
pasture.
What is the average 'percentage of cockerels
to pullets ?• —497l.
All records show that percentages are
about equal.
How to stop a concrete tank leaking? —
4979.
The remedy will depend on whether the
leakage is duei to cracking or to the porous
nature of the concrete. If cracking has
occurred the inside of the tank must be
plastered with a mixture of two parts of
clean sand to one part of cement, with only
sufficient water to form a stiff but workable
mixture. Before plastering, the concrete
should be wetted, then brushed with a mix-
ture of neat cement and water made to the con-
sistency of paint; plastering should be com-
menced before this wash has had time to dry.
The plaster should be kept damp for at least
seven days after hardening. If the leak-
age is due to porosity in the concrete only,
it may be remedied by painting the surface
of the concrete with a cement and water
wash, keeping this damp for several days and
then treating with a solution of waterglass
in the proportion of lib. of waterglass syrup
to 1 gallon of water. The tank should be
given three coats of this solution, allowing
each coat to dry before the next is applied.
Suitable flowers to grow for sale to
florists? —5050.
Carnations, dahlias, zinnias, snapdragons,
asters, delphiniums, cosmos, calliopsis, roses,
chrysanthemums, daffodils, Easter daisies,
forget-me-nots, Iceland poppies, stocks, sweet-
peas and watsonias.
(1) Is it possible to grow medicinal herbs
for profit on about one acre of land in the
Bay of Islands ( M.L.)? (2) What are
marketing requirements? (3) Any litera-
ture dealing with cultivation, treatment and
marketing ? —4616.
(1) You should be able to grow aniseed,
stramonium, belladonna, aconite, lavender,
buchu, valerian, peppermint, saffron, arnica
and squill. Distilled oils of lavender and
peppermint are used rather extensively.
Whether the enterprise would be profitable
we can’t say, (2) Get in touch with the
N. Z. Drug Co. to ascertain demand and
market prospects. (3) “Medicinal Herbs,”
by David Ellis, and “Profitable Herb Grow-
ing,” by A. B. Teetgen.
HINTS FOR THE FARM,
“Arvey”: When a heavyweight beast is
killed on a station you hear complaints that
there is too much scrap meat to eat before
the choicer cuts can be consumed. Try this
way of keeping meat fresh. Cut the roasts
up and partly cook; then place in clean
benzine-tins, pour melted fat over them, and
store. If the job is well done they will be
tasty cooked three' months after the kill ;
but be sure to have them completely covered
with the fat, so as to exclude air.
“Agricola” : “Mulga’s” recipe (B. 29/7/’3l)
for getting rid of nut grass with the aid of
pigs was tried years ago, to my knowledge, on
one of the rich alluvial flats of the old Nor-
manby homestead near Harrisville (Q.), and
proved worse than useless. You can exter-
minate the pest in small areas by converting
the infested piece of land into a fowl-run
and keeping its surface well watered in dry
weather; but life is too short to apply that
or any other method in larger areas. How-
ever, winter-growing crops—wheat, barley,
oats, rye, linseed, rape, turnips—may be
quite successfully raised on badly-infested
land; also lucerne is very little affected by
the pest if grown in suitable soil, but the
seed should not be sown before the end of
April.
“Jack Point”: A neighbor has painted his
roof red, but while one-lialf is nice and
glossy the other is dull. The dull half was
applied late one afternoon ; that night there
was a heavy dew. When you decide to give
the roof of the house, barn or stable a coat
of paint to make that rusty iron last a few
years longer, choose a sunny day and start
the work early in the morning.
“Burra M.”: Farmers in our south
Queensland district are going back to hand
corn-thrashers. When there is plenty of
husking to do men long for something to
save their fingers; and this is worth a trial.
Get a piece of hardwood, about longer
than the width of hand and itself |in. wide.
Put a flat point on one end. About l£in.
from the other end tie a piece of string round
it; leave lin. slack; then make a loop on
the end large enough to slip on either of
the middle fingers. In use, the thing is
held in the hand, the sharpened end protrud-
ing by thumb and forefinger. Grasp the cob
in the left hand, shove the stick into the
hugk at the top and pull down a scarf, hold-
ing it between stick and thumb; then grab
the husk on the other side and rip it off.
“Joseph”: It is a mistake to travel fat
sucker lambs from farm to trucks without
their mothers or other grown sheep as
coachers: it knocks them about immensely.
When the whole drop is not being trucked
the difficulty arrives in separating their
mothers from the rest of the mob. I draft
off all the lambs for market and hold them
securely in the yard. Turn out the mob into
an adjoining paddock, and within three hours
all those ewes with lambs not in the
yard will have found them and walked
away, while the mothers of lambs in the
yard will be hanging about. Join them up
and start the journey, first making sure that
no biting sheep-dogs are on the job.
“Devon” : Arguing about the merits of
various breeds of pigs is useless until fac-
tories and buyers give an extra price for
the particular class of pork they require.
Three of us here (northern N.S.W.) sent
pigs to the local factory. One lot was pure
Berk.; the second, Tam.-Berk. cross; the
third a motley variety of piebald, plum-pud-
ding and red pigs. All were graded first-class
and paid for at sd. up to 651 b. and 4Jd.
over that weight. In the circumstances it
appears to me that the best pig to grow is
the one that gets to the market in good order
in the shortest possible time and consumes
the least food.
“Go Do”: The Vineless sweet-potato has
proved its worth in N.S.W. The earliest-
maturing variety known, it will produce
tubers while other sorts are still making their
top growth. The tubers are developed imme-
diately under the main stem —a distinct
advantage at digging time; they are of a
handy size, and the flesh is deep cream in
color, dry in texture and very sweet. Owing
to the scanty .top growth Vineless may be
planted as close as Ift. x 2ft. 6in.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart ..for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (25), Sydney, wants work as house-
man or station-hand. Refs. —5020.
Young lady (24), Vic., wants position, farm or
country home, as children’s nurse or companion.
Kindergarten exp. and can sew. Refs. —4982.
Youth (16), Sydney, good education, wants job
in city office. —5002.
Married man (27), Sydney, exp. manufacturers’
representative, seeks position any capacity anywhere.
Refs.—soo6.
Certificated nurse, N.S.W., wants position hospital
or on private case, city or country. Refs. —5047.
Hotel manager, Vic., English, Aust. and Euro-
pean exp., served apprenticeship in Switzerland,
seeks engagement. Refs. —5056.
To communicate with anybody who has taken the
Earle Liederman physical-training course.—so 72.
To buy “General John Regan,” by Birmingham;
and “Irish Pedigrees.”—so3l.
To buy “Moral Philosophy,” by Combe; “Applied
Character Building,” by Miller; “Mental Funttions
of the Brain,” by Hollander” ; and “Gall on the
Functions of the Brain,” translated by Lewis.—4996.
To buy any books by Doris Egerton Jones. —5041
To buy Price Warung’s “Tales of the Convict
System.”—so6l.
To buy Beethoven’s Symphonies as piano duets. —
5057.
Words of “Devil May Care” and “Gunga Din.”—•
5016.
Words of verse, “I’m Glad It Weren’t the Bull.”
4994.
Words of verse “The Last Great War,” beginning
“When the plesiosaurs were sated with the dino-
saurs’ remains.” —5003.
Words of verse commencing “The skies that arched
his land were blue.” —5063.
Information Sought.
I want to become a stockbroker, with a
seat on the Sydney Exchange. (1) Best way
of learning the business? (2) On what condi-
tions do you usually enter a stockbroker's
office? (3) How, long to learn? (4) Would
i5OOO be enough to start with? (5) Any age
limit? (6) Would it be wise? —46so.
(1) By joining a broker’s office. (2) You
usually begin as a clerk and are paid ruling
rates. (3) Depends entirely unon your
ability. (4) Depends upon your qualifica-
tions. If the committee of the Stock
Exchange considered you to be a level-headed,
conservative type, the amount would be
ample; if you were thought to be a specu-
lative person, it would not be. (5) Must be
over 21. (6) For the right man, prospects
good.
(1) What is the maximum depth to which
a deep-sea diver can descend? (2) Record
depth of a submarine? (3) Supposing a
large vessel were to sink in mid-ocean, how
far down would it go?. —4801.
(1) In the latest type of steel diving-bell
a depth of 1426 ft. has been attained. The
limit for diving-suits is about 500 ft. (2)
It is claimed that the Spanish submarine
Cl reached a depth of 270 ft. in 1928, and
it is probable that this record has since been
exceeded. (3) A steel vessel will sink to
the bottom in any depth. A wooden vessel,
possessing, when full of water, just insuffi-
cient buoyancy to remain afloat, may find
a level between the surface and the bottom
where it will remain suspended, owing to
the very slight increase in the density of
the water as the depth increases.
Best fertiliser for flower garden, and how
to apply it? —so42.
Super, and potash worked into the soil in
powder form are the safest. To counteract
the tendency of chemical fertilisers to sour
the soil plenty of stable refuse should be
dug in.
Recipe for a white enamel suitable for
bathroom walls? —4902.
Mix 41b. zinc white in oil, i-gal. pale car-
riage varnish, |-pint turpentine, J-pint pale
tc-rebine. As a foundation two or more coats
of flat color should be applied, made by
mixing _ 41b. white zinc in oil, 1$ pints
turpentine and J-pint pale terebine. You
would get a better finish for very little
more cost by purchasing one of the many
excellent enamels prepared ready for use.
(1) If I deposit money in Commonwealth
S. B. on first two or three days of the
calendar month, is interest computed for that
, month? (2) If I withdraw the money dur-
ing the last two or three days will interest be
a llowed ? —5028.
(1) The bank allows interest for. a calen-
dar month on deposits made on the first
working day of the month; thus if the first
is a Sunday and the second a holiday, a
deposit made on the third would receive in-
terest for the whole month. (2) Interest for
the calendar month is allowed on moneys
withdrawn on the last working day of the
month.
Priminister Scullin says meals as such
are exempt from sales tax. I have a cafe,
and in conjunction with a soda fountain
serve light luncheons. Tas. Labor Dept, says
my waitresses come wider the hotel award,
as we are serving meals. The Federal people
say I must pay sales tax on cakes, etc., eaten
at the tables, as they do not constitute a
meal. Ido not sell wholesale, nor over the
counter. I am also informed that I mu&<t pay
sales tax on ice-cream manufactured for us
in my cafe. Who is right? —4Bo3.
The Federal Taxation Department states
that, though thei-e is no provision in the
Sales Tax Assessment Acts by which meals
may be legally exempted, effect is being given
to the Prime Minister’s statement in Par-
liament as far as is found to be possible.
But Mr. Scullin’s statement involves diffi-
culties, because many articles of food served
as meals are of such a nature that in the
ordinary course of trade they may be sold
over the counter. The law requires payment
of tax by a manufacturer of foodstuffs (other
than those specifically exempted) who pro-
duces them regularly and treats them as
stock for sale by retail. The exempted food-
stuffs which are usually sold in cafes are
bacon or ham, bread, butter, cheese, cream,
milk and condensed or concentrated milk,
pastry, buns, bread sandwiches, scones and
milk arrowroot biscuits. Cakes, ice-cream
and other goods made by the shopkeepers are
subject to tax, irrespective of the manner in
which they are sold. Apparently you are
liable to sales tax only in respect of cakes
and ice-cream manufactured by vou. and
where the volume of taxable sales is £5O or
less per annum tax is not payable.
(1) Would it be possible to shoot a rocket
from the earth to the moon? (2) What
speed would be necessary? (3) What is
the net result of recent experiments until
rockets as a means of propelling motor-cars
and aeroplanes? —so7s.
(1) It is considered possible, and three
years ago a rocket to which were attached
meteorological recording instruments was
fired. It was estimated that it would go
beyond the confines of the atmosphere before
returning to earth. No report has yet been
made as to the result of the experiment. (2)
The speed must be continually accelerated
at a rate greater than the gravitational
acceleration. Prof. Oberth, of Germany, has
calculated that to send a rocket to within
the moon’s sphere of attraction there must
be an acceleration of 30 metres a second,
lasting for 332 seconds, resulting in the
attainment of a final velocity of 12,000
metres a second (approx. 27,000 m.p.h.). (3)
An Opel rocket-car attained a speed of 200
kilometres an hour, and rockets have been
successfully used as motive power for gliders.
How to grow daphne from slips, and best
time and place to plant? —so23.
Take a stem which has flow T ered this
season and bears unopened leaf-buds
and leave a strip of bark at the lower end
for rooting. Place the cutting in soil in a
big jam tin with holes for drainage and
cover the slip with an inverted pickle jar
or milk bottle. After a couple of months
gradually raise the bottom of the jar above
the soil, to harden the shrub. January to
April are the best months to strike cuttings.
If the slips make growth they can be shifted
to the open garden in October.
What sort of fish is it that attaches itself
to boats and is used by natives to catch
turtles?— so74.
It is known as the sucker fish. It has
a, large laminated plate covering the head
and providing a highly efficient sucking disc,
which enables the fish to attach itself to
the hull of a ship or to the body of a shark
or whale, and so to be carried about without
effort to itself. The disc is a modification
of a dorsal fin, and is so constructed that
though the fish can detach itself at will by
swimming forward it cannot be pulled off
backwards.
(1) Amount payable to dependants under
N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act in case
of death of worker? (2) Amount payable
to partial dependants? (3) Amount pay-
able for burial expenses where there are no
dependants ? —5064.
(1) A sum equal to four years’ earning or
£4OO, whichever is the larger, but not exceed-
ing £SOO. The amount of any weekly payments
or lump sum received by the worker is to be
deducted from the amount payable, but may
not reduce it below £2OO. In addition £25
is payable in respect of each dependent child
under 16. (21 Whatever is determined by
agreement or by the Workers’ Compensation
Commission. (3) Up to £3O.
What is the story behind the tombstone in
Windsor (N.S.W.) cemetery which states
that William Green teas “barbarously mur-
dered in the execution of his duty, August
20, 1826”?—4795.
Green was beaten to death with a stick
whilst attempting to arrest a man named
Isaac Smith, who was molesting a woman.
The murder took place in a field on Capt.
John Frabyn’s estate, Clifton, on the river-
side close to the churchyard. Smith and
another man named Denis Moore were tried
on Sept. 8, 1826. for the crime. Moore was
discharged and Smith was hanged.
(1) Who and what were the Pre-Raphael-
ites? (2) What was the aim of Pre-Raphael-
ism? (31 Did they affect English life to
any extent? —5019.
(11 The Pre-Raphaelite brotherhood con-
sisted of Dante Gabriel Rossetti, William
Holman Hunt, John Everett Millais, James
Collinson and Frederick George Stevens,
painters; Thomas Woolner, sculptor; and
William Michael Rossetti, writer. (2) To
combat the conventions that dominated Eng-
lish art. They took as their exemplars the
Italian painters of the fifteenth century
(before Raphael). (3) They had a marked
influence on the costumes and manners of
their period, and their influence on art is
not yet exhausted.
My fox-terrier pup, ten weeks old. is con-
tinually scratching himself and whimpering.
He is free from verryin and has no rash.
—4900.
Probably a case of worms. Pup should be
starved overnight and then given a worm
capsule followed by a dose of castor oil.
Repeat treatment in a fortnight’s time. Feed
on minced meat, milk, vegetables and soup.
(1) Where can I buy parts to build a
four-valve all-wave electric radio receiver?
(2) Cost? (3) Suitable type of valves?’( 4)
Would single dial control be advantageous?
(5) Details of rectifier and smoothing unit?
(6) Material required? —479s.
(1) Any large radii? dealer. (2) £l9 5s
(3) R.C.A. TTY 224 screen-grid valve for rad ; o
stage; UY227 for detector and first audio
stage; UXI7IA for last audio stage. (4)
If intended for short-wave as well as broad-
cast reception, individual tuning control will
be necessary. If required for the broadcast
band only, one dial control will simplify
tuning. (5) Transformers and chokes are
so cheap at present that nothing is gained
by making them up. The cost quoted includes
rectifier, full-wave smoothing unit and
valves. (6) Dealer will advise.
What is the derivation of the Airedale
terrier? —49o4.
In 1853 Wilfred Holmes, desirous of pro-
ducing a type to hunt vermin on the banks
of the river Aire, in Yorkshire, crossed the
Welsh terrier with another breed, probably
the otterhound. The cross was then known
as the waterside terrier. It was first exhi-
bited at Bingley in Yorkshire.
How much was borrowed by the following
M.L. Governments: (1) Scddon, (2) Ward,
(3) Massey, (4) Coates? (5) How many
immigrants did the Reform Government bring
into M.L. ? —4988.
Taking the nearest financial vears, (1)
£26,035 000; (2) first Administration,
£20,175,000; second, £3,200,000; (3)
£137,750,000 (this includes w’ar loans raised
by the National Government, of which Mr.
Massey was head); (4) £25.340,000. (5)
Under the first and second Reform Govern-
ments headed by Mr. Massey, and under the
Premiership of Mr. Coates, 75,652 assisted
immigrants were admitted. In tne National
Government’s term the number was 6216.
(1) What is a monotype print? (2) What
is one worth? —5013.
(1) It is obtained by painting, usually in
sepia oil, a whole sheet’ or surface of glass,
zinc or marble. On this paint-covered surface
a design is made by wiping away the parts
of the design which are to be white and
thinning the surface of the paint for the
various half-tones. This can be printed
on 'an unglazed paper, which has been
previously damped, but will yield only one
impression. (2) Depends upon artistic
merit and authorship.
(1) Who composed the music of the
Rational Anthem? (2) Who wrote the
words? (3) When teas it first sung in public
as National Anthem? —5043.
(1) Earliest English appearance of any-
thing like the melody is a four-note exercise
by Dr. John Bull, entitled “God Save the
King,” published in 1619. Purcell, who
was composer to the King, turned out some-
thing similar in 1682, and Oswald, a Scottish
musician, and Henry Carey both produced the
air as at present known in 1740. Carey’s
claim to be the composer is the most strongly
supported by the evidence. There is a theory
also that the air came from France. (2)
The words are those of a Jacobite song,
writer unknown. There is some ground for
the belief that they are a translation of a
French chanson composed by the Mother
Superior of the Convent of St. Cyr as a
thanksgiving for the recovery of Louis XIV,,
after an illness occasioned by consuming
three roast chickens and three large bowls of
pigeon-soup at one sitting. (3) The custom
of using it to indicate the conclusion of pro-
ceedings seems to have started on the same
night at concerts held at Drury-lane and
Covent Garden, in September, 1745, when
the song, in duet form, was introduced at
the end of each programme. The news of Sir
John Cope’s defeat at Prestonpans had been
received in London that day.
Was boiling to death ever a legal punish-
ment in England? Did it appear in any
statute, and are there any records of such
sentences being carried out? —5068.
An Act of 1531 (Henry VIII.) provided
that convicted poisoners should be boiled to
death. The preamble recites that one
Richard Roose, a cook, by putting poison
in some food intended for the household of
the Bishop of Rochester and for the poor of
the parish of Lambeth, killed a man and
woman. He was found guilty of treason and
was boiled to death at Smithfield “without
benefit of clergy.” There are earlier refer-
ences to this penalty as a punishment for
coining. The “Chronicles of the Grey Friars”
record a boiling for poisoning at Smithfield
in 1522, the man being fastened to a chain
and lowered into boiling water several times
until he died. In the reign of Edward VI.,
in 1547, the Act of 1531 was repealed.
(1) Apart from the official inquiry into
the loss of the Roebuck, for what was Wil-
liam Dumpier court-martialled on his return
from his 1699-1701 voyage to New Guinea?
(2) Verdict? (3) Did it do him harm ? —
5070.
(1) For thrashing a Lieut. George Fisher
and for having him imprisoned in a Portu-
guese gaol at Bahia in Brazil, where the
officer remained for five months. (2) The
Court was of the opinion that Dampier had
been guilty of “hard and cruel usage,” fined
him all his pay and declared that he was not
a fit person to be employed as a commander.
(3) No. He was given a new command imme-
diately.
(1) What is the strength of the German
army and navy? (2) What are the special
features of the German “pocket ” battleships?
(3) Who is Adolf Hitler? (4) What is the
aim of his party? (5) What party is in
power in Germany? —49s4.
(1) The strength of the army in 1929 was
4291 officers and 94,900 other ranks. It is
a voluntary force. By the Treaty of Ver-
sailles the navy is limited to six battleships
of 10,000 tons, six light cruisers, 12
destroyers and 12 torpedo-boats. No sub-
marines may be built or maintained in
service. The total strength in officers and men
must not exceed 15.000, and no naval reserve
corps may be organised. (2) Very heavy arma-
ment in ratio to displacement (10.000 tons),
a speed of 26 knots derived from light Diesel
engines, and very light construction, the
plates being welded with a special alloy,
instead of being riveted. (3) He is the
41-year-old Austrian-born leader of the
National-Socialist party. H’e served in the
war and was gassed. After the war he joined
the German Workers’ party, and was one
of those who marched on Berlin in Nov., 1923.
He received a sentence of five years’ deten-
tion, but this was commuted. (4) It is the
German “Fascist” faction and espouses an
anti-Semitic and extreme nationalistic pro-
gramme of dictatorship, with certain social-
istic features. In foreign policy it opposes
the peace treaty terms and all reparation
payments. In domestic policy l it is opposed
to the representative form of government.
(5) The Social Democratic party has the
largest number of members in the "Reichstag,
but the Cabinet is a coalition comprised of
members of various parties opposed to the
extreme socialists and nationalists.
Brief Answers.
G. 5.8.; £1 a year is deducted from old-
age pension for every £lO by which the net capital
value of property other than his home exceeds £5O,
or, where both husband and wife are pensioners, £26.
In the case of husband and wife the property of
both is, for pension purposes, deemed to be equally
divided hetween them E.F.: You should be eli-
gible to obtain food relief every week S.F.F.:
The value of gold and silver produced in MX. in
the year ended June 30, 1930, was £550,978 ; foi
1928-29, £527,340 N.H.G.: No; 7 p.c. p.a. would
be reasonable W. J.lv.: Being an unsecured over-
draft, it is not covered by the N.S.W. Moratorium
Act A.M.: If the agreement provided for repos
session on failure to pay, the matter is ended so
far as you are concerned. You could have claimed
the protection of the N.S.W. Moratorium Act, but
it’s too late n0w.... A.A.: Saltpetre is of no value
in assisting the burning of stumps. The best way
to deal with a stump that burns badly is to build
a pile of logs and brush around it, fire in the ordi-
nary way, and cover the burning material, when
well alight, with clay. Such a lire will smoulder
for weeks R.C.: Flax seed is preferably used
boiled, as all the oil is then extracted and can be
easily assimilated... .P.E.: A man 79 years of age,
living in England, has an expectation of life of
5-19 years. .. .T.E.J.: (1) and (2) By lodging a
copy at the Copyright Office, Melbourne. Fee, ss.
(3) It is advisable. (4) Practically no market in
Australia. Arrangements might be made with reper-
tory companies. (5) Two or three guineas....
J.A.R.: Buzacott and Co., 7 Market-street, Sydney. .. .
F.G.: Larke, Neave and Carter, 177 William-street,
Sydney, will-furnish particulars if asked R.R.:
Facts given are not sufficient. Communicate with
N.S.W. Commissioner of Taxation F.G.M.: A half-
font (smallest quantity supplied) of Cairns Gothic,
12pt. type, procurable from F. T. Wimble and Co.,
35 Clarence-street, Sydney, costs 275. Small caps,
are not made for Gothic types. Any trade linotypei
would supply 22em by 24pt. lines at a cost of about
7d. per line... .A.E.F.: Fred Hagen, 184 Phillip-
street; J. H. Smythe, 121 a Castlereagh-street; F.
Everitt, 333 George-street—all Sydney... .A.D.11.:
Full details are given in the Commonwealth Year-
Book, 5s A.C.D.: You had no luck.... D. 8.:
Write Registrar, Vic. Nurses’ Board, 352 Collins-
street, Melbourne MX.: State which branch of
work you are interested in....T.5.: A paper bag
contains one cubic foot of cement, weighing 941 b.;
jute bags hold lj cubic feet, weighing 1251 b.; casks
contain 3761 b., equal to four paper-bag lots or three
jute bags. .. .P.E.A. (1) A number of Arab mares have
been imported and bred from in Australia. (2) Yes.
(3) Get in touch with Chief Veterinary Surgeon,
Agriculture Department, Sydney. (4) Goethe died
March 22, 1832 V.J.M.: The Q’land Health
Department conducts courses of instruction for health
inspectors, at which lectures are given on pure foods,
but only when inspectors are required. There is no
course of instruction in meat inspection at Brisbane.
H.W.S.: (1) and (2) Yes, as absentee. Tax
will be claimed from co. on total J.W.W.: Patent
unknown to Q’land Agriculture Dept. To search
records is a job for a patent attorney H.JX.:
Bedggood and Co., York-street, Sydney P-H.:
Write Country Lending Branch, Public Library of
N.S.W., Sydney. .. .F. 8.8.: Hon. sec., J. H. Baskett,
Box 3505 RR, G.P.O-. Sydney G.D.M.D.: Miss
Poynter, Bothwell (Tas.), makes hand-thrown pot-
tery, obtainable from Miss Mosey, Hadspen Miss
S.: No. A can only score a pair for his 5, pegging
2....11.W.Y.: On a money order for £26 17s. issued
in U.K. since January 29, £34 18s. would
be payable in Australia. If payment were
not effected here the money order would be
returned to London and the original face value
v would be refunded, less a repayment fee....
A.K.W.; You don’t say what State you live in
Statutory requirements vary in different States.
....D.8.: As your neighbor failed to serve notice
on you you are not liable... .E.H.H.: A renewal
does not involve a fresh mortgage H.A.P.: A
man may not marry either his wife’s brother’s
daughter or his wife’s sister’s daughter.... K.D.:
No, it is the characteristic design of earliest Brit-
ish historical civilisation, but the modern clan
tartans of Scotland are in a very developed condi-
tion. According to Dion Cassius Boadicea wore a
tartan robe on the day of her defeat, and so did
most of her people.... A.L.C.: Write Union Theatres
Feature Exchange, 251 a Pitt-street, Sydney
F.R.D.: Get in touch with J. M. Baldwin, Govern-
ment Astronomer, Melbourne.... K.J.M.: They are
caught from Townsville northwards. The low
demand, distance from markets and poor prices and
uncertainty of supplies have killed the trade....
H.E.L.R.: Write Labor Department, Brisbane....
A.S.R.: A mixture can be selected from the follow-
ing: Alsyke clover, white clover, rye grass, cocks-
foot grass, fescue grass and Kentucky blue. ...
R.F.8.: (1) Shares may be forfeited if a call is not
paid within 14 days, without further notice. (2) Sub-
Treasury Commonwealth Office, 3 Martin-place, or
Law Book Co., 140 Phillip-street, both Sydney
H.G.: (1) Depends upon your ability and present
occupation. I.C.S. and Hemingway and Robertson
conduct excellent- courses. (2) About three years.
Depends upon the time you can devote to study. (3)
£5O. (4) Can’t say, but thorough accountancy
training is always a good asset in the commercial
world W.J.Y.: (1) Sykes’s “Banking and Cur-
rency,” Spalding’s “Currency and Exchange,” Clay’s
“Economics for the General Reader,” Hartley
Withers’s “The Meaning of Money” and Tovey’s
“Balance-sheets and How to Read Them.” (2) Don’t
think so, but write to the Registrar, Sydney Uni..!.
H.N.: The value of board allowed should be included
as income in the return... .H.H.: 1, 2 and 3. The
“maker,” usually called the “bidder,” leads first....
N.C.: Write N.S.W. Agriculture Dept., Sydney, for
“Hides, Skins and Sundries,” 9d D. J.L.: See
“Rubber-stamp Making,” by Sloane J.W.: Board
and lodging is taken into account at £1 per week
unless the value of the board is fixed in an award,
in which case that is the basis. The amount of
N.S.W. tax payable in respect of wages, 255., plus
board allowance, is 2s. per week. .. .L.W.: The subject
of elective Ministries was fully debated by “Sol. M.”
and J. M. Fowler in “Plain English,” Oct. and Nov.,
1929 M. J.L.: Under the N.S.W. Married Women’s
Property Act, 1901, a married woman is capable of
holding, acquiring or disposing of any real or per-
sonal property as her separate property. Her property
is not liable for her husband’s debts and her earnings
in any occupation apart from her husband’s are her
own G.S.: Sutherland (N.S.W.) takes its name
from the parish so designated in 1853 in memory of
Forby Sutherland, a member of Captain Cook’s crew,
who died soon after the first landing at Kurnell, and
was buried there in 1770—the first white man to
leave his bones on the eastern coast of Australia....
C.T.: (1) Fishing nets are not regularly manufac-
tured in Australia, but a few trawl nets of manilla
twine for deep-sea fishing have been braided here.
(2) Cotton fishing nets are machine-made, and it
would not pay anyone to make them by hand....
C.M.: Furnish more details F.J.C.: Write sec-
retary, Society of Genealogists, 5 Bloomsbury-square,
London. W,C.I. No need to tell why you require
the information. It might be possible to pick up
what vou want from books of reference in the N.S.W.
Public Library (Many others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £lOO IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J. HARDIE
Synopsis : Margaret Kennedy, on her
way to Corella station, in North
Queensland, whither she has been in-
vited by Tom Donaldson, father of
her school friend Peggy, is rescued
from a seemingly inevitable coach
crash by Ken Craig. Margaret falls
under thc spell of Craig’s roman-
tic personality, though she resents thc
fact that ' he is repeatedly doing
things that appear to her to put her
in his debt. He goes away to help a
queer character. Larry Nolan, with
his horses, and before he returns
to Corella Larry gives him a
magnificent black, ichich he calls
Eaglehawk, and the popular opinion
regarding which is that Larry must
have pinched it as a foal. Ken takes
Eaglehawk with him when he goes out
to take charge of thc work at Cattle
Camp, tollere he is badly injured in
saving one of his men from being
gored by a bull. Margaret nurses
him, and rejects a somewhat offhand
proposal. Station life is suddenly
disturbed by the arrival of Mr. Borth-
wick, sent up by the city managers on
a visit of inspection. Borthwick has
a sinister understanding with the
station book-keeper, Heath, and to him
intimates prospective changes. He
makes Ken a big offer for Eaglehawk
and is refused. He determines that he
trill get the horse somehow. Soon
after Ken is doped in a hotel at
Carinda and is scorned as a drunk
by Margaret. Recovered, he rides
away to where he had left the horses,
but they have vanished. Larry fiiids
him on’the point of collapse, but him-
self continues the tracking, recovers
the horses and leaves one of the thieves
with a smashed head. Ken has a letter
of apology from Margaret, she having
been called away owing to the illness
of her father. At the same time
Donaldson is sacked by Borthwick, and
Heath put in charge of the station,
changes which soon lead to Ken and
others leaving. Ken, after some drov-
ing, gets into touch with civilisation,
and finds that ivar has been raging in
Europe for a, month. In Sydney he
and Margaret meet again, to continue
their interrupted romance.
CHAPTER XIX ( Continued ).
THEY were seated close together in the
angle of the window seat, faces radiant,
eyes brimming over with happiness.
“You do look different—all dressed up!”
Margaret exclaimed.
“Thanks! I’ll tell that tailor! He will
be pleased,” Ken answered her raillery.
She wrinkled her nose at him. “But I
think I like the old way better. In that
highly respectable collar and tie, and that
suit—it doesn’t fit you at all well—you
look like”
“Like a colt with the breaking-in tackle
on? And I feel like it too!” he added.
“But tell me all about everything.”
“Everything? Why, you are everything
that matters.”
A slim, soft hand closed over his mouth
and was immediately imprisoned and held
there. Over the barrier a pair of grey eyes
smiled like a happy boy at the transformed
beauty of the girl’s face.
“Will you promise to behave and answer
my questions? Tell me, who’s left at
Corella?”
“Dunno! Wouldn’t be suiprised to hear
the blasted Heath is running the station
on his own.”
“But Uncle Alan?”
“He was there when 1 left. In spite of
Heath’s trying to get rid of him, the old
chap stayed on to give him a hand. Tom
Sanderson stayed to help the old man,
otherwise there wouldn’t have been a decent
stockman on the place.”
She nodded understanding^.
“But why did you come here—to Sydney?
I thought you hated cities?”
“So I do. But then I’ll appreciate the
Bush all the more when I get back.”
“When?”
“Depends. Scotty’s still reading his home
mail.”
“Oh! Is Scotty with you?”
"Yes. He came along. We went drov-
ing with big Bill Scanlan—one of the best.
Delivered our mob down on the Cooper
last month. Bill went back up north with
the droving plant, and Scotty and I hit
Windorah at the end of August, and found
there was a war on.”
“You didn’t know till then?”
“No. That Cooper country is worse than
the Territory—all channels and sandhills,
and scrub, rabbits and dingoes, and pelicans
and camels, and the folks down there are
all a bit mad. It’s hard to realise it here
in Sydney with men in uniform every-
where, but next Christmas there will still
fie dozens of people out there that haven’t
heard there’s a war on.”
“And after Windorah?” she prompted.
“Oh, Scotty reckons the Germans were
making for his home town, and away we
went for the railway. We sold our horses
in Charleville —rotten prices we got, too.”
“Not Eaglehawk, Ken, surely?”
“Eaglehawk! Not on your sweet little
life! I left him with old Larry till I get
back. Anyhow, we hit Sydney, and we’re
having a wild time. We’re staying at the
Metropole. Landed there like a couple of
hayseeds; we didn’t even have a port be-
tween us—only a swag. And Scotty’s swag
burst open in the entrance hall and his
gear scattered all over the floor. I’ll guar-
antee he blushed right down to his waist.
Anyhow; we got some civilised clothes, and
we’re living mostly on fruit-salad and ice-
cream. My, it’s great stuff!”
“Wait a minute. Where’s Scotty now?”
“At the pub—hotel, I mean! He got
about fifty letters all in a heap, and he’s
still reading. As soon as he gets through
he reckons he’s going to enlist.”
“To enlist!” Margaret sat bolt upright.
“And you, Ken?”
He grinned cheerfully down at her
anxious face. “Oh, I dunno! If that young
coot goes to the war he’ll get bushed about
five minutes after he lands there and find
himself in the wrong army or something.
It isn’t my war, but it seems like I’ll have
to go and look after that mad Scotchman.
Anyhow, it will all be over before they
make a soldier out of me! Why, what’s
the matter, Margaret?”
“Nothing—l was just thinking.” She
forced a smile to cover the fear that had
struck at her happiness.
An arm like steel encircled her, and she
yielded happily, eagerly to the embrace,
while a voice whispered in her ear: “If
thinking has that effect on you, leave the
thinking to me.”
She nestled happily against his shoulder,
feeling secure in the protecting circle of
his arm. His cheek pressed caressingly
against her hair.
“Margaret!”
A soft hand crept round his neck.
“Margaret, will you—will you marry
me?”
The lithe, yielding form seemed to stiffen
in his arms; then it suddenly relaxed as if
a knife had been thrust into it.
The man sat up in amazement. The
girl was still, staring straight ahead with
unseeing, frozen eyes. He seized her by
the shoulders and tried vainly to draw her
eyes to meet his.
“Margaret! What’s the matter?” His
voice grew soft and low. “Margaret, answer
me! Won’t you maiTy me?”
Her head shook slowly from side to side.
A whisper came from her dry throat. “I
I can’t!”
“You can’t! Why? Tell me, Margaret.”
There was a note of pain in the eager
tones.
“Because—l’m married! ”
The man recoiled, mingled bewilderment
and incredulity in his face.
“Married!” The hoarse voice shook with
emotion. “Margaret! I can’t believe it!”
She nodded dully. “It’s true.”
“But your husband?”—the word cost an
agony to pronounce—“where is he?”
“Here —in Sydney!”
“In Sydney!” He rose swiftly to his feet,
then paused. The girl’s voice sounded dull
and lifeless—each word had a sob of despair
behind it.
“Sit down, Ken. I’ll tell you.”
The man sat down, bewildered—his mind
in a turmoil.
“I married him against my father’s
wishes. My mother died when I was quite
small. Dad knew about him—but all they
said only made me defend him more. He
was much older than I, but we were
happy for a time, until... .until I began
to find out what he really was. ■ After that
things grew worse and worse. He was
seldom sober; when drunk he was
bestial! Life with him became a misery—
an insult—an impossibility. He brought
women to —our house. Flaunted them
before me!”
She paused a moment. The man sat
rigid, tense. His face was pale and drawn,
and from his eyes blazed a searing fire.
“I left him and went home, but he fol-
lowed. My father was ill. I could not risk
upsetting him further, so I came back to
Sydney. Still he followed. Then I thought
of Peggy—we were at school together. So
I went to Corella, dropping my married
name, and—oh, Ken, I’m sorry! I’m
sorry.”
The- voice faltered and broke. Dimly
she heard him demand through grim, set
lips:
“What’s his name—this man?”
“No! Leave him alone, Ken! He isn’t
fit to live; but you—you must keep out of
this.”
He rose heavily and paced desperately
to and fro. In his brain something was
pounding like a sledge-hammer—he could
not collect his thoughts. Suddenly he
halted; a ray of hope illumined the grim
features. Gently he knelt beside the girl
and possessed himself of a slim, cool hand.
“Margaret, listen! I love you! You—
the real you! Your name doesn’t matter.
Tell me, Margaret—do you care—even a
little bit?”
“Don’t, Ken, please!” she moaned, thrust-
ing at the deterring hand.
“Margaret! Don’t let this swine wreck
our lives. Come away with me. We’ll
go back to the Territory, where only the
real things in life count.”
Wearily she shook her head with an air
of sad finality. “It’s no good, Ken! That
way out is not for us!”
The well-groomed man in the light-grey
suit broke off in the middle of a sentence
and pointed to something in the welter
of traffic surging past.
“Talk about hayseeds! Look at that
fellow!”
His stout, elderly companion peered for-
ward. A tram jerked to a standstill across
the intersection with screaming brakes. A
lorrydriver snarled vindictively. Through
if all passed a tall figure, quite oblivious
of the stir he was causing and equally
careless. He forged through the stream of
traffic, with the luck generally attributed
to fools and drunks.
“I’ll swear I know that chap. Excuse
me, George. See you later.”
The young man started in pursuit of the
rapidly-moving figure, leaving his com-
panion staring in amazement.
“Bill! I say, Bill! Bill Craig!” Breath-
lessly he grabbed at an arm.
The man looked down at the outstretched
hand, then took it in a grip that made the
owner’s eyes open wide.
“I heard you went to the Bush—you cer-
tainly disappeared very thoroughly. And
what are we doing in Sydney now? Come
down to enlist or to be married or?”
“I’ve just left some damned wooden-
headed fools that make me feel sorry I’m
an Australian!”
“Quite believe you, Bill. But which par-
ticular ones are you referring to?”
“Out there—at the Barracks! They
turned me down for that!” A brown right
hand shot out. The man stared uncom-
prehendingly till his gaze fell on the index
finger.
“How’d you do it, Bill?”
“Snake grabbed me! And because I lost
the top off one finger they tell me I can’t
fight! God’s truth! I offered to take
on any of them—ride, shoot, fight, any-
thing. But no use! It seems that some
fellow, ’way back in the days of bows and
arrows, said that a man with the top off
his first finger can’t shoot, and these miser-
able, brass-bound fools have lost the use
of their eyes, and the ability to think for
themselves. They took my mate—a Scotch-
man. He doesn’t know I’m out of it, and
I’m not going to tell him, or he’ll pull out
—and he wants to go.”
“And what now, Bill? Is it back to the
Bush?”
The other nodded moodily. “S’pose so!
God! I Would give my right hand to get
right in the middle of their damned war,
just for one hour!”
Dixon’s keen eyes had never left his
companion’s face during the recital, and
now they narrowed speculatively. He felt
there was more behind the outburst than
mere failure to enlist.
“Honestly, Bill, is that the only thing
they had against you?”
“Sure it is!”
“Well, lis,ten a minute. I might be able
to heln.”
The dour expression remained, but the
eyes betrayed an interest that deepened as
he listened.
“In my official capacity—l’m a Something
in a Government department these days—
I heard about a regiment that’s being raised
in England., Some people with a lot of
surplus money—and an eye to a title, I
suppose—have undertaken to stand the
cost of raising and equipping a cavalry regi-
ment of overseas men. So they advised
us that any recruits would be welcomed.”
“Yes, but”
“Hold on a minute. The terms are that
recruits have to pay their own passages to
London, and when they get there the pay
is at the rate of one shilling per day. For
these considerations it appears that one
may have the privilege of being killed
several months sooner than by joining one’s
native army.”
“When can I get a boat?”
“Heaven knows. Everything leaving for
England is booked up months ahead; but
we may be able to pull some strings. A
medical certificate is also necessary. They’re
not quite so fussy in England as we are
here at present. Remember Bob Spencer
—he was at school in your time? Well,
he’s a full-blown sawbones now. Go and
see him, and don’t noke that stumpy finger
under his nose. I’ll give him a ring and
break the news to him. He’s breaking his
neck to get away too.”
CHAPTER XX.
The stout, swaggering sergeant paused on
the stone landing to give his pointed
moustache an unnecessary twirl, then pushed
the heavy door open, and led the way into
the barrack-room. The eyes of the tall man
slouching behind took in the long, white-
washed room, with the rows of collapsible
bedsteads along the walls, each with its
shelf above the head, and the bedding and
equipment arranged with mathematical pre-
cision and uniformity. Half a dozen scat-
tered men in khaki, polishing buttons and
leatherwork, threw a critical glance; at the
newcomer and bent to their tasks again.
Half-way down the room the sergeant
paused, and pointed with his cane.
“Take that bed, Craig! Report to the
Q.M. Store in five minutes to draw uni-
form. Alvarez!”
“Yeh!” A thickset, grotesque figure
looked up from the tunic-buttons he was
polishing.
“Wake up, man! You’re in the army
now!” The curt command was in strong
contrast to the casual tones of the other.
“Look after this chap, and show him the
ropes!”
The sergeant glanced along the row of
neat packages, one hand fiercely caressing
the pointed moustache as he slapped hi>
puttees impatiently with the cane; then,
turning abruptly, marched off with heavy
tread.
The newcomer dumped an overcoat and
a small bag on the bed.
“Where’s this store?”
“Downstairs, past the stables, under the
SiFch
“Good-oh! Thanks!”
In half an hour he returned. For a space,
he blankly contemplated the jumbled pile
of khaki uniform, underclothing, boots and
equipment he had thrown on the bed.
“It looks strange, eh?”
He turned slowly towards the voice. The
man was vigorously polishing a cap badge,
and Ken thought he had never set eyes on
a man so ugly.
Of medium height, with broad, deep chest
narrowing to a comparatively slim waist,
his bow legs accentuated by the cut of
the riding breeches and tight puttees. Big
hands swung low from the long, powerful
arms. The grotesque body was surmounted
by a round head of close-cropped black
hair and a swarthy, pock-marked face whose
component features must have been the
left-overs from many generations. A huge,
bulbous nose overhung the big mouth with
retreating chin, which a straggly, black
moustache, coarse as horsehair, failed to
conceal. A pair of big ears, reminiscenl
of an elephant’s, protruded widely from
the bullet head, and the eyes were set
close together. Round his waist he wore
what appeared to Ken the broadest money-
belt of soft, brown leather he had ever seen,
from the back of which, to add to his
villainous aspect, the haft of a long knife
protruded.
But, as if the gods had repented at the
last minute, the man’s eyes were of a soft,
warm brown; and Ken, meeting their
friendly, steadfast gaze, stilled his unfavor-
able first impressions.
As he divested himself of his civilian
clothes, he waved an expressive arm round
the bare barrack-room.
“How long does it take to get used to
this?”
The wide shoulders shrugged. “Quien
sabe! It depends! I came here to fight.
Instead, they say, ‘Do this! Do that!’ as if
I am a dog. In my country I have seen
men knifed for less. Where do you come
from?”
“Australia!”
“Ah! You also are a caballero —a
vaquero, perhaps?”
“Eh?”
“You can ride?”
“Oh, a bit!” Ken’s tone was depreciat-
ingly casual, but the brown eyes gleamed
with approval.
“When I see you walk down the room, I
say, ‘That hombre has worn spurs.’ And
your legs.” A hand was waved in the direc-
tion of Ken’s bare limbs. “Only the
saddle wears the hair off the calf so. ”
Ken was beginning to like this human
gorilla. The man’s voice was deep and
husky; English was evidently not his every-
day" language, but the voice was unassum-
ing and virile.
“Been in the army long?”
“One week. Since I land at Liverpool
I am from South America —Chile and Pata-
gonia. Alvarez is my name.”
“Mine’s Craig!” The other bowed cere-
moniously at the introduction. “What do
you want to fight for? You’re not English.
An arm like a gorilla’s curved out in
protest. “Si, amigo. I am British. I was
born in the Falkland Islands. I enlist there
with the British Consul.”
Ken was struggling valiantly into his new
attire. “How the hell do you get on a
horse with these breeches tight round youv
knee?”
“They are new. With wear they become
easier.”
“And they ride in these heavy boots.
I feel like a hairy-heeled draught-horse!
“Wait! The puttees go so! From ; the
knee downwards. We are the cavalry!”
At last Ken slipped into the short, tight-
necked tunic, and shrugged uneasily. “This
is the most uncomfortable rigout I evei
wore!”
A rush of footsteps sounded on the stone
stairs and a score of uniformed men burst
noisily in. The new recruit attracted little
attention. A swarthy youth paused at
Alvarez’s bed with a “Como lava, che.
and an interrogative nod towards the nev
man. Alvarez shook his head and murmured
“Australia!” and the youth passed on with
a disappointed shrug. Conversations in
uncomprehended tongues were being carried
on all round, and Ken listened in amaze-
ment for a time, then turned to his room-
mate. ,
“Where do all these chaps come from.
“From all the. world! South America.
United 1 States— they call themselves Can-
adians; many Canadians, too ! South Africa.
China, India, many Australians. All kind-


Jjutnbago
DON’T UNGER ON IN
PAIN AND SUFFERING!
"OK! oh! my back—it’s nearly breaking. I can t get
straight again once I stoop down. It seems just as though
an iron hand is gripping me, wrenching the muscles, making
me just sick with pain" ....
How many thousands of men and women, victims of
torturing lumbago, could repeat these words? How many
have come to the brink of breakdown by chronic symptoms
that actually reveal deep-seated kidney trouble?
POISONS IN YOUR BLOOD ARE
CAUSING YOUR SUFFERING
It is vitally important that you should realise the fact that
the pain you suffer is caused by poisons in the blood, for then
you will know that the' only rational method of ending your
trouble is to prompt the kidneys to their natural work of
keeping the blood free from pain-giving impurities.
Thousands of one-time sufferers, now restored to health,
will tell you there is no surer, safer, more certain and inex-
pensive remedy for lumbago, chronic backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, bladder trouble and all the sure signs of kidney
trouble, than De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Where all
other remedies fail, in cases where men and women have been
bed-ridden, or perhaps have suffered—not weeks, but years—
De Witt’s Pills have banished the old pain and restored health.
Cv \\ \\ A A 111 / / 11 // /' ////.
De WITTS
IDNEY AND BLADDEI
TPIIiLS
ď
THIS REMEDY
BEARS A DEFINITE
GUARANTEE
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills carry a very definite guar-
antee to show results in 24 hours
from the very first dose. The
color of the urine tells you these
strength-restoring pills are acting
directly on the kidneys. But be
sure you obtain the genuine
remedy. Don’t be misled by any
imitation or substitute—see the
name clearly on the package.
When you have the true De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
cost but 3/6 per box, you may be
assured you have really started on
the road to permanent health and
strength. Ask your chemist how
good they are.
TERRIBLE PAINS IN BACK
RELIEVED.
Mr. W. Monagham, Second
Avenue, Campsie (N.S.W.), says:
“Owing to working in the damp
basement of building, I was
troubled with terrible pains in my
back, and could not stand straight.
A friend recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and
one bottle was sufficient to relieve
me. I have never had any return
of my trouble since.”
Mr. W. H. Curtis, 31 Wright
Street, Adelaide, writes: “About
five years ago I was laid up for
sixteen weeks with neuritis and
rheumatism, partially paralysed.
I was recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
I am happy to say pulled me
through. I am 74 years of age
snd still able to hold my own
with younger men. I have en-
joyed the best of health ever
since.”
of men are here. Some can ride; some are
more used to the high stool. There are
old and young; my countryman is but a
boy, while one man dyes his hair and says
he is forty, but I think he will never see
sixty again. There axe rich and poor, good
and bad. Some own estancias, some will
clean your equipment for the price of a
drink. But be careful, Craig amigo. There
are also men who will steal the laces of
your boots.”
Barrack life and discipline came hard to
Ken after years of freedom. To his pi-acti-
cal mind, the time spent on unnecessaiy
details was irritating in the extreme, yet
the same programme was repeated day
after day, irrespective of weather or other
circumstances.
They taught him to groom a horse, and
as he pushed the brush over a dull flank he
thought of the thousands of horses whose
grooming consisted of knocking off enough
mud to make room for the saddle, and
yet whose coats shone with a bloom that
intensive grooming failed to produce on
these animals. He chafed inwardly at the
amount of time spent at stables, not ideal-
ising that it was all part of the disciplinary
scheme. The fastidious care with which the
horses were bedded down each night
appeared ludicrous to the Australian, and
on his first horse-guard he was highly
amused at his companion, an Anglo-Indian,
whose zeal for cleanliness was aided by an
intuition which would take him suddenly
to a stall, shovel in hand, to catch the
horse-dung before it reached the straw.
In the weeks of training that followed,
the long, taciturn Australian and the mis-
shapen gaucho came to be regarded as a
permanent “half-section,” and were gi’adu-
ally absorbed into the life of the foreign
legion.
The King’s Colonials were brigaded with
some odd colonial cavalry, and were fortunate
both in their colonel and in their brigadier.
Their commanders were born cavaliymen,
possessed of a sense of humor, breadth of
vision and disregard of red tape—primary
essentials in the handling of men who have
been accustomed to thinking for themselves.
Then, one rainy night in the spring of
15, they tramped through the muddy gate-
way of their camp for the last time. After
months of chafing, the restraining leash
was slipped at last. A spirit of subdued
elation permeated the brigade, overcoming
the big disappointment. For Whitehall had
decreed that the dfiy of the cavalry was not
at hand, so the cavernous Q.M. Stores re-
ceived the unwanted insignia—the saddles,
swords and bandoliers—and in their place
served out a mystifying collection of odd-
ments, which finally evolved into infantry
web equipment. Only one item of evidence
of their departed -status as cavalrymen did
they retain. And as the long column wound
its way to the waiting train, the Sussex
folk stared in bucolic wonder from lighted
windows at their final geste —the King’s
Colonials still wore their spurs, strapped
to their elbows!
A few weeks later they made their debut
at Festubert. Up a long, poplar-lined road,
straight as an arrow, passing an endless
stream of empty limbers, motor-lorries, G.S.
waggons, cautiously moving ambulances and
parties of muddy, tired-eyed men. The
muttering grumble of the guns grew more
distinct. The sky filled with white puffs
as an anti-aircraft battery vainly chased
an enemy ’plane.
Men grew silent with suppressed excite-
ment as they gained their first distant view
of the front line. Through a gap, the bare
horizon spouted grey and yellow fountains,
interspersed with the black, glooming cloud
of a bursting “coal-box.” To their straining
ears came the “wuff-wuff” of distant explo-
sions, distinguishable above the clear, sharp
bark from the closer gun emplacements.
In front and behind excited chatter broke
"out in English and alleged English. Scraps
of rapid West Indian French and Argentine
Spanish mingled with the guttural taal of
South Africa. It was notable of this
mixed crew that, while their normal inter-
course was in English, in moments of excite-
ment they subconsciously reverted to the
language they thought in.
They rested in a shattered brasserie, and
after dark moved up the line to relieve the
remnant of a battalion that had borne the
brunt of the preceding day’s attack. Blindly
they plodded through the gloom towards
the lurid glare of bursting shells and Verey
lights. The occasional crack of a rifle or
the vicious rattle of a machine-gun took on
a more personal meaning. Overhead, like
an endless procession of unearthly wild
geese, shells of all calibres whizzed, or
rolled over with ominous deliberation.
Whispered directions passed from front to
rear. “Shell-hole on the left! Wire over-
head!” Men ducked instinctively as occa-
sional shells burst in their vicinity. They
had not yet learned to distinguish the swift
“zipp” of the whizz-bang passing over from
the wavering “00-ah-00-ah” of the coming
5.9, but treated everything with the great-
est respect.
Shells were landing closer. A machine-
gun rapped out a few bursts, the bullets
smacking into the ground beside the column
with sinister, nerve-racking cracks. A
sudden halt; then “Stretcher-bearers!” The
words flashed back along the line. With his
next breath every man demanded, “Who
is it?”
Who was their first casualty?
They plodded on. A huddled group
whispered over a dim stretcher. Someone
said it was Moran of A Squadron. “Poor
devil!” mingled with “Lucky beggar!”
from the cynics.
, Then of a sudden they arrived. They
crossed a maze of gaping trenches, black
and broken wire. Splintered
tree-trunks loomed grotesquely in the dark.
The night wind moaned eerily through the
pitiful remains of a building.
And over all hung a strange, dank smell
—a smell that would haunt their nightmares
till they died. It lay like a cold, haunting
fog, mingling the smells of deserted, ghostly
buildings, disinfectants, pestilence, decay,
death. #
Unwittingly they crossed the remains of
what had been the British front line of a
few days before. In a splintered orchard
men paused instinctively, then turned
dumbly away from a ghastly heap at a gap
in the hedge. Further on someone whis-
pered, “Canadian Scottish! Machine-gun
caught them at the gap! ”
A sudden halt. Ken found himself look-
ing down into a shallow trench. A star-
shell burst into wan brilliance and he threw
himself into the muddy cover. A strong
Canadian accent demanded:
“What battalion, fellas?*
“King’s Colonials!”
“Just out, ain’t yuh?”
“Yes!”
“God help you! You’ve struck Hell with
the lid off!”
The remnants of the Jocks filed silently
back, and the King’s Colonials started in
to build up the battered remains of the
ex-German trench. It had been of sand-
bags piled above the ground-level, but as
what had been the rear of the German
trench was now the parapet of the British,
all hands set to work feverishly pulling
sandbags off the back and stacking them
between them and the enemy.
Shelling had been intermittent during the
night, but with the first glimmering of light
in the east the morning strafe began. They
could not yet distinguish the enemy lines.
The crooked trench they held faced a dozen
fronts. Shells and bullets were landing on
the battered trench from where they knew
not. Stretcher-bearers were continually
passing to a call.
Jackson, the troop sergeant, once of the
North-West Mounted Police, moved briskly
along the line. In England Ken had re-,
garded him as a bit of a martinet, but now
he felt a strong liking for the straight-
backed, alert figure with the clipped words
of command and the level voice. Jackson
might be regimental, but he had guts.
For two days and nights the brigade was
tested in an inferno of shellfire and sweep-
ing machine-gun bullets. They beat off
two counter-attacks, but the thing they
felt most keenly was the fact that an
English battalion on their right—evidently
unaware that the trench was no longer in
German hands—subjected them to con-
tinuous enfilade fire. Runners were gent,
back to warn them, but not until the second
day did a man get through, and by that
time the number of casualties from British
bullets raised a white-hot resentment
against the Staff in general and a certain
battalion in particular.
The King’s Colonials suffered heavily, and
when they dragged themselves wearily
back from the tortured strip of front line
they were no longer the light-hearted regi-
ment that had chaffed the women of Le
Havre a short month before. Dirty and
unkempt, with weary, drawn faces and tired
eyes that had seen death not once but many
times —the deaths a man might expect to
see spread over a lifetime, concentrated into
the space of a few hours. Horrible deaths,
mutilations, men buried alive by titanic
upheavals—all left their mark indelibly on
the white slab of consciousness that every
man’s body conceals, and whose only
windows are the eyes.
(To be continued next iceek.)
The Things Beyond.
There lived a youth in liis father’s house,
And he was a seeker born,
With questing thoughts and a restless heart
That worried him night and morn.
And evermore as the seasons passed
And life pulsed, dull and slow.
He saw a track to an open road
That led where his heart would go.
He said farewell to his father’s house,
And hope’s bright cloak he donned,
And took the track to the open road
That led to the Things Beyond.
The track was rugged, the road was long,
Yet, blithe of heart, he strode;
For youth, with its lures that dance before,
Makes light of the roughest road.
He whistled gaily, and gaily heard
Gay birds on high respond,
But whistled not, when he saw the loom.
Cloud-like, % of the Things Beyond.
For there stood turrets that Care had built,
And there in drear distress
He saw the bastions of deathless Hate
And temples of Selfishness.
He would have turned, for the lying lures
Had danced their dances, and gone....
The fate of the seeker-born is this —
That he must to the end go on.
And on and on to the end he went,
Dead dreams his weary load.
Like all who travel the Winding Track
That leads to the Open Road.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGIS TER ED m
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G-P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl
BRAKE
LINING
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.: OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE; Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra.
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
From-the three-year-old standpoint, racing
at Flemirigton last Saturday wa.s important.
The question whether L. K. S. Mackinnon’s
Magpie colt, Magnesia, would be sent across
to Randwiek for the A.J.C. Derby depended
on how he shaped in a mile engagement against
rivals of his own age. Seeing that Mag-
nesia ran nearly last, he will probably remain
at home, and James Scobie will have
only Illustrious to saddle up in the Rand-
wick classic. Semitist, winner of the .first
division of the Three-year-old Handicap,
started at 12 to 1, two points longer odds
than were obtainable about Magnesia. The
Moabite filly came with a paralysing run-
in the last furlong to vanquish Periander
(9 to 4) by half a head. Periander, by Cara-
vel from a sister to Sasanof, is trained by
Lou Robertson, who has two other thorough-
breds —Stephen and Perinthus (half-brother
to Heroic) —eligible to start in the A.J.C.
Derby. He has decided that none of them
is worth taking to Sydney.
Semitist is in the Williamstown stable of
R Sinclair, who did so well with Mercian
King and Royal Feast (full brothers) a
few years ago. Sinclair appears to have
under-estimated the chance of Semitist last
Saturday. She finished like a true stayer.
Her grand-dam, Golden Slipper, by Multi-
form, was one of the greatest mares ever
foaled in Maoriland, and Semitist must prove
a valuable second string to Idle Banter in
the approaching spring events for horses of
their age. F. P. Smith, a Melbourne malt-
ster, owns Idle Banter, and he races Semitist
in conjunction with the Underwood broth-
ers, whose late father was a pillar of the
Williamstown Racing Club, serving on the
committee for many years.
Bert . v Its luckv we vn/efE'm’t
killed V
GEPT' «T MIGHT HAVE BEEN
WORSE 1 ’
Bert : ‘’Well, Whats to be done
NOW 2 "
GERT: <i 'Vou , LL FIND THE tools under
THE SEAT., DEAR 11
A feature of the second division of the
Tliree-year-old Handicap was that Jack Holt
was directly interested in four of the ten
runners. He trains Heroic Prince and owns La
Joconde, Noblesse and Earl Leicester, the last-
named trio being leased by Ralph Horne, C.
T. Godby and tClaude Goodfellow, respec-
lively. Heroic Prince, who belongs to C. B.
Kellow and had top weight, headed the
quotes, and Noblesse, a .daughter of Spel-
thorne, was third favorite. Bold Bid, trained
by Janies Scobie, also carried the Kellow
livery; but he was unmentioned in the bet-
ting, and, losing 20 lengths or so through
dwelling at the post, might as well have
remained there. Heroic Prince could not do
better than run fifth.. but Holt fared well
as a lessor, Earl Leicester winning hand-
somely from Noblesse. Picked up as a year-
ling for 110 guineas, Earl Leicester is by
Crowdenms from Koame, by Spearhead.
Goodfellow early m the afternoon, sprang
a surprise by running a dead heat for first
place in the six furlongs Apprentices Han-
dicap with Sally s Robe, a three-year-old
vv ’ ,c \ IS . related to Mollison. She
started at 20 to 1, and her partial victory
i so £ e tojninte^ rs > 10 had accepted
” \ about the other dead-heater, Plathalie,
owned and trained by Fred Foulsham, who
was associated with Mollison s record sue-
cesses as a juvenile.
* ' * ’ *
Drake, the crack Sydney hurdler, earned
£25 towards the cost of his Melbourne visit
by running third to Pitoota and Firmeroi on
Saturday; but lie never looked like winning.
Pitoota (favorite) wore down Firmeroi after
a good deal of trouble. Patriotic, another
strong public fancy, had his work cut out
to dispose of Gift' in the August Steeplechase.
Royal Barb, brother to The Dimmer,
accounted for the August Haudieap oppo-
sition in most impressive fashion. It. is
incomprehensible that he should have got
into this race with 6.9, after having been
allotted 7.2 in the Caulfield Cup and 7.1
in the Melbourne Cup. Bay of Islands
returned liberal odds (8 to 1) when he took
the first division of the Highweight Handi-
cap, but Metaphor, trained by Frank Godby,
was backed like a cert, for the next division,
which he duly landed.
Phar Lap is to reappear at Williamstown
next Saturday after being out of action since
the V.R.C. Autumn meeting. He will try
conclusions again with Waterline in the
weight-for-age Underwood Stakes of one mile.
Waterline narrowly defeated him in the C.
M. Lloyd Stakes, over a similar distance;
but the champion was not himself on that
occasion, and moreover, had to concede “S. A.
Rawdon’s” prad 211 b., a special penalty hav-
ing been imposed to try and bring a super
thoroughbred back to the moderates. Phar
Lap now is bucking out of his skin with
health. He cannot be as far forward in
condition as Waterline, who scored at Caul-
field recently, or as Wise Force, who cap-
tured the V.R.C. Lawn Handicap on July
11; but he ought to account for them on
standard weight-for-age terms if the form
can be reproduced that enabled him to make
Nightmarch and Amounis look like hacks at
Warwick Farm.
* * *
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Hurdle Race: Isocrates or Firmeroi.
Underwood Stakes: Phar Lap or Water-
line.
=!s * $
Ammon Ra, generally considered the best
of last season’s two-year-olds—though beaten,
with his penalty, in the A.J.C. Champagne
Stakes—has grown into a fine-looking horse,
and as he had been galloping brilliantly on
the Randwiek tracks, he was made favorite
at 5 to 2 for the first division of the Flying
Handicap at Rosehill on Saturday. He
accomplished his task in dashing style, com-
ing away from his field in the straight when
McCarten called on him; the time, lmin.
14sec., was nothing out of the ordinary, but
it was not a day of fast times. Nearest to
the Maorilander at the finish were Legis-
lator (8 to 1) and Sunlit Reef (20 to 1) ;
Johnnie Jason was supported on the strength
of good track work with Sir Crystopher at
Newcastle, but he was not prominent at the
finish, though a likely-looking sort. Pavilion
(5 to 1) was the hest-backed of the older
horses, there being no money to speak of for
Pentheus (Epsom favorite), Casque d’Or or
Ticino. She got away first but, was knocked
back last, and Bartle did not punch her
out when he saw her chance was hopeless,
•
Ammon Ra’s speed is beyond question, but
ca n he stay? He is by Limond—Hyades,
and that looks a good enough pedigree, but
judgment as to his stamina must be reserved,
f Ol . a f ew we eks at least. Price saddled up a
smart customer in Flying Dave (Brazen —
Lero) for the first division of the Three-
year-old Handicap, and he convincingly jus-
tified the odds (2 to 1), reversing positions
with Cypress (Limond—Cymene), who had
beaten him at Warwick Farm. Still, Cypress
majr better suited by the Derby distance,
<pjj e ge ven furlongs were traversed in lmin.
28-lsec. Ptolemy (8 to 1) cut Usee. off that
time in the second division, and this bay son
0 f Moabite—Shepherd Princess is pretty
g 00( j. Le Legion (12 to 1), by Legionnaire—
La Benos, was second in this race; the
favorite, Gold Digger, who looks more the
cut of a Derby horse than either of them,
was third, after meeting with interference,
* *
Holdfast (8 to 1) was noticeably weak
in the betting on the second division of
the Flying Handicap, but he proved that
he had not lost his pace by leading as far
as the Leger, where he was cut down by the
favorite, Tom Pinch. In fact, Holdfast was
chiefly responsible for the time being ijsec.
better than Ammon Ra’s. Dilemma, a three-
year-old by Legionnaire—Bewilder, in Joe
Cook’s stable, was third.
Spearshot was a warm stable and public
fancy for the Roseliill Handicap, but he had
a very rough passage and suffered a disas-
trous fall at the home turn. Don Moon (8
to 1) made a sterling effort, to end his
astonishing succession of seconds and thirds,
but he had to strike his colors once more —
this time to little Bosmina (10 to 1), who
was capitally ridden by an apprentice,
Russell. For some reason or other, Chide was
backed for the Carlirigford Mile as if he
were a certainty. He looked big and ran
accordingly. Victory fell to another horse
from Maoriland, Love Song (6 to 1), owned
and trained by J. H. Jefferd, who showed
great gameness when tackled by Warneton
and the fast-finishing John Buchan.
* Ji> * «
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Dundas Handicap: Ammon Ra; next,
Toper.
Rosehill Handicap: Bosmina; next, Brain.
Three-year-old Handicap : Chatham ; next,
Legislator.
Parramatta Mile : Abbot’s Lad : next. Nut
Cup.
at * * *
Adelaide Racing (Club’s G. N. Hurdle pro-
vided a surprise for the heads, the winner
turning up in Blackmoor, a six-year-old
maiden gelding by All Black —Bise, which
paid the thumping dividend of £6l Is. Black-
moor is owned by an Adelaide solicitor racing
as “H. Towar,” and got home by a head
from the much better fancied Orcades in
4min. 58isee. for the 2m. 4f. 190yds. Bought,
in Sydney as a yearling, Blackmoor was
rested for some years before turning out
under colors, but has never made any show-
ing until Saturday’s race.'
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Considered one of the toughest Australian
lightweights in the stoush industry, N.S.W.
Jimmy Kelso was expected to bother Vic-
torian Bobby Blay at Leichhardt last
Friday. Kelso (9.81) commenced well, and
supporters were sure he would win when a
series of vicious lefts landed on the Cabbage
Gardener’s head and body. Blay (9.8) was
too clever, however, and drawing Kelso in
dropped him on his face for the full count
with successive lefts to the ribs and chin.
The argument lasted just over a minute and
a half.
Footbrawl
All League games being suspended, the
return match between Victoria and South
Australia brought 20,980 to the Melbourne
Cricket Ground on Saturday, and transferred
£1193 4s. 3d. from their pockets to those of
other interested parties. The game was bright
and fast, and, because of the home side’s
lamentable kicking, there was for long a
hope of a close finish; but after the long
interval, that vanished. Right throughout
the locals played as a co-operating team;
marking excellently, shepherding and scout-
ing cleverly, and always backing up. The
Croweaters, on the other hand, played each
on his own. Their kicking was unusually
accurate; the half-time score —S.A. 5.3 to
Vic. 5.17 —still left them a chance, but
thereafter the Gumsuckers booted more goals
than behinds and finally won easily—Vic.,
14 goals 24 behinds (108) ; S.A.. 10 goals
7 behinds (67). Best man on the ground was
Hayden Bunton, whom Fitzroy brought from
Albury last season, but wasn’t allowed to
play. Others who shone for Victoria were
Gill, Spurling and Vallence. The pick from
west of the Murray were Tully, Sexton, Day-
man and Jailer, but the 18, as a whole,
seemed to be strangers to each other.
The Australian Rules match between
N.S.W. and a ATetorian Association side at
Sydney Cricket Ground drew close on 9000
people, but deserved a- far larger audience,
for the game was fast and spectacular from
start to finish. The more experienced Vic-
torians ran out winners by 16 goals 11
behinds (107), to 13 goals 17 behinds (95).
but were leading by only two points when
the final quarter opened. A determined com-
bined attack saw the visitors score four
goals in quick succession, and though the
Welshmen rallied gallantly in the last few
minutes, notching three major points, they
were too late. Victoria played generally
with better combination and found the posts
more consistently. In the second quarter,
when the home side was on top all through,
half a dozen possible goals were missed by
them. In the air the teams were well
matched and the home side was the faster
on the ground. The outstanding player of
the day was little Stiff, of N.S.W., who won
the trophy for the best showing of the
match. The abo. player, Nicholls, among the
visitors, justified his reputation as a bril-
liant winger.
* $ * *
Though Saturday’s games in Sydney
altered the positions of the four leading Rugby
League teams for the semi-finals of the pre-
miership, the quartette stood as on the pre-
vious Saturday. Eastern Suburbs won very
easily from North Sydney at the Sports
Ground, the .score card reading 52 to 4 in
East’s favor when the debacle finished,
Lynch, the Eastern three-quarter, bringing
bis points tally to 120 for the season. South
Sydney had little trouble in beating Uni. 29-5
at Earl Park, but Newtown’s 14-10 win from
St. George was a surprise to the Saints’ fol-
lowers. A rough match at Pratten Park
saw Balmain down Western Suburbs, last
season’s premiers, by 20-16. The draw for
the coming semi-finals is Eastern Suburbs v.
Western, South Sydney v. St. George.
* * * *
With the premiership decided, the N.S.W.
Rugby Union on Saturday opened the usual
knock-out competition with which it closes
its season. The absence of most of the
stars in M.L. weakened the sides, but some
of the showings were surprising. The pre-
miers. Eastern Suburbs, failed horribly
against Northern Suburbs, which galloped
home with 30 points to 6 at North Sydney.
On Uni. Oval Western Suburbs downed
Drummoyne 29-15. while Randwiek towelled
up Uni. at Coogee by 30-7. Manly put up
another big score against St. George, pre-
vailing by 37-9. Norths, West, Manly and
Randwiek arc consequently left for the next
round.
* * ❖ *
E. Gordon Shaw: As manager of the
1927-28 Waratahs I would call attention to
the paragraph (B. 12/8/’3l) remarking on
the fact that the Rugby Union team, now in
Maoriland. includes two brothers, Jim and
Phil Clark, and alleging it is rare to find
brothers at once on the same side in inter-
national matches. The Waratahs had two
sets of brothers, Arnold and Jim Tancred
and Jack and Eric Ford, and the whole four
came from the one club, the now defunct
Glebe-Balmain. The Fords played in many
of the county games together and in four of
the five internationals. Jack Ford dropped out
of the game against France, as did Arnold
Tancred, through minor injuries.
(Continued on next page.)
The recent run of juvenile successes in big
golf was stayed in Sydney last week when
two veterans in D. G. Soutar and Tommy
Howard faced each other in the final of the
Dunlop Cup tourney for professional players.
The game was played at Rose Bay, Soutar
proving too hot on the putting greens for
his rival and winning by four and three. The
winner took the Australian open as long
ago as 1905, Howard following suit 18 years
later.


/Y, A :
Jig fi<
v r J
ASK for booklets and full
information from Tourist
Bureau .
GET UP ABOVE
WORRY LEVEL
IT is only 4 days away! Winter sports
amid marvellous mountain scenery . . .
great lakes and rivers . . . deep, sub-
tropical bush and fascinating Thermal
wonders. Shooting .. . fishing ... climb-
ing . . . every assistance to make your
holiday a perfect one.
A ?
MHVT
km m k
Martin Place & Pitt Street,
(Opp. G.P.0.) Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne
ONE PYROX PLUG
-this is strange but true. ..
LBI
/IN
...Made the Starting Easier
Now We’ve Got Two
TWO Pyrox plugs—engine seems more free
P’raps another one will help —now there are three.
THREE Pyrox Plugs have made the Engine Roar
Doing wonders now on top—let’s try four!
FOUR Pyrox plugs, busy as a hive
Saving petrol every mile—what’s wrong with five?
FIVE Pyrox plugs-never up to tricks
Worth while to have a set—here goes for six.
SIX Pyrox plugs—engine runs like new
Fix a Pyrox set to-day-THIS MEANS YOU!
Sold by all Garages
Made by
PYROX Pty. Ltd., MELBOURNE
(formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty. Ltd.)
ILosch
Footbrawl
‘“Fremantle”: Whatever the merits of _ it,
the Hough case, in which the Victorian
and Westralian football Leagues have been
embroiled (B. 12/8/’3l), may now be con-
sidered at an end. When the young man
arrived back in his native State the toma-
hawk was buried. Not only did he not make
the expected announcement that he had
shaken the dust of Westralian football off
his trotter-cases for ever, but he at once
attended training with his old club, Clare-
mont-Cottesloe, and was selected to play in
the next match. Thus ends a curious foot-
ball incident, the Westralian football heads,
who banned the lad from playing in Victoria,
being evidently only too glad to have him
eligible for the State team, in which he was
such a tower of strength at the last Aus-
tralian carnival.
v : i :
“Senex”: The Rugby footballer does not.
linger long in the limelight, nowadays. Of
the famous Waratabs only Ross, Towers,
Malcolm, Blair and Judd have been deemed
worthy of selection in the Australian side
for Maoriland, and it is only four years
ago since that famous combination put the
Australian Rugby Union back on the world’s
football map. Of the side that renresented
N.S.W. in M.L. in 1928 only Malcolm, Hem-
ingway and Cerutti survive in the Australian
team. Judd is the hoary veteran of the
party. Only 24 to-day, he was a member
of N.S.W. in the Shivery Isles in 1925 —
he was then a mere pup of j 7.
* # * ?■
“Stand Off”: Your modern athlete suffers
from the same complex as your modern actor.
Too much publicity is apt to give him too
great an estimate of his own importance.
N.S.W. Rugby Union football saw an
instance of this the other day, when an excel-
lent young half-back named Thicknesse was
omitted from the Australian team to tour
Maoriland. Protesting that he was not
inspired by animus arising out of the Rugby
Union’s failure to appreciate him at his own
valuation, he promptly threw himself into
the arms of the professional Rugby League,
by whom he was welcomed gratefully. Thick-
nesse, with another season’s experience,
would have been a certain choice for the
Australian tour of South Africa next year.
He has chosen to sacrifice this glowing pros-
pect to join up with a version of the Rugby
game that can offer no international repre-
sentation to its players than an occasional
game against members of a group of pro-
fessional clubs in Lancashire and Yorkshire,
which occasionally visit Australia and still
more occasionally receive visits in return.
* * * *
“Old Rep.”: The usual heartburnings have
followed on the selection of the Australian
Rugby Union team, for which the All Blacks
are waiting across the Tasman with whetted
meres. The trouble in this instance was that
there were so many first-class candidates for
some of the positions that some'one had to go
to the wall. The forwards and scrum-halves
were very, hard to pick, a plethora of
talent offering. The full-backs were easy and
so were the wingers. For the centres and
stand-off halves the selectors’ task was
harder. With all respect to the men selected
the Australian, team’s chief weakness seems
to be at five-eighth and inside centre. No
Tom Lawton has come forward this year for
the all important five-eighth possie, and, con-
sidering the vigorous and thrusting gentry
Maoriland usually finds for these positions,
one is moved to pessimism.
**. . * *
Outside Left”: That row between the
Australian Soccer folk and their breakaway
brethren of the League (B. 12/8/’3l) is
dinkum all right. When the four League
players selected to tour Java with the lily-
white division defied the threats of their
professional cobbers to disqualify them for
life, the League cabled to the Java Soccer
people pointing out that the selection of
the League players was a breach of the laws
of amateurism. Java has replied to the
effect that it had dealings with the Aus-
tralian body before and did not know much
about the League. On the whole it preferred
to carry on with the devil it did know and
not worry about any subsidiary fiend to
which it had not even been officially intro-
duced.
Racquet and Bawl
“Old Q.”: The N.S.W. tennis side in
Queensland opened its tour last week with
a four-aside match against the Bananaland-
eis. ihe first day Queensland won four of
the six rubbers, and N.S.W. returned the
compliment next day by taking four in their
u ”\, g rubbers the match was thus even,
but N.S.W., with 2 sets and 15 games to
the good, came out winners. Crawford was
m . great form taking all his singles
matches, though he and Willard went down
to Moon and Cummings in the doubles. The
£S Oy^ laye A McG , rath P lay c d fine tennis,
the , Queensland skipper, Chave.
i. T \ ata ’ oldy I°’ 1S the youngest player
who has ever turned out for N.S.W., though
a , atterson was about the same age
when he first figured for Victoria
* * * *
-Knucklebone”; Some temerarious
cove in Melbourne took his life in his hands
H ° th % day . w fi en h e suggested to the Aus-
tralian Tennis Council that the events for
women be cut out of the Australian cham-
pionships altogether. The daring one’s name
has been wisely deleted from the reports but
in any case the meeting turned the nefarious
suggestion down, the N.S.W, delegates being
emphatic on the subject of women’s right!
' n , t . he matter. They would be. They mo-
bablj retain a lively recollection of the
hornets nest, which was stirred up in Sydney
a couple of seasons ago when the N S W
tennis authorities tried to put one over on
the female members of the species.
* * * *
“‘Cut Shot”; Henri Cochet (B 12/S/’Tn
is not to be lured by the big money into p av-
ing professional tennis, though American™
“o o ntrac J t a at U three ' y ear
p 00 a year t 0 cross over It
l 1 ?* of money to get back from tennis
gates, but presumably the promoter
what he is about. The invitation was issued
on the understanding that Cochet should
torn Lurope and America with Tilden
+bp Z ttdn p and CO Y incident indicates
the thm hope we have in Australia of seeiim
Tilden and his brother pros, in action on
this side. The .money here is not nearly big
enough, at least as long as the going remains
good across the water.
The Nineteenth Hole
“R. Bay”: Monty Walker’s feat in lower-
ing his own record for the short course at
Royal Sydney (he went round last week
in 61. which included 8 threes and 2 twos)
carries a lesson of sort, i.e., learn to be a
long-driver in early youth. Like his twin
brother, he is a hefty athlete, and he has
played the game since boyhood, but he never
bothered to get distance. If he could pack
a 230 yard drive as a fairly regular thing he
would be a champion. His putting, short-
approach work and nerve are phenomenal.
* * * *
“Vic.”: Harry Williams, the giant 16-
year-old left-hander who won the Vic. ama-
teur championship, and is now in Sydney
after the national title and a match with
Jim Perrier, is another advt. for concen-
tration. Both his father and mother are
golfers of class, and since he took up the
game at the age of 10 he has played almost
every day and often all day. An entire
afternoon doing short approaches, four hours
on end at putting practice—endurance feats
of this Spartan description have been taken
as a matter of course by him. He is a
natural long-driver; in the opinion of many
he already hits a longer ball than anyone
Australia has yet seen, amateur or pro. He
brought off half a dozen 300-yard shots in
the Vic. championship games, and one mea-
sured drive of 320 yards.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The open golf champion-
ship of Australia, which is down for deci-
sion on the Australian iClub’s course in
Sydney and commences on August 27, has
drawn the excellent entry of 129. Quality
is also well represented, most of the leading
Australian amateurs and professionals hav-
ing thrown their hats into the ring. The
Victorians are fielding a very strong con-
tingent, wdiile for once Queensland is well
represented both professionally and by the
lilywhites. Tasmanians and South ' Aus-
tralians are also well to the fore, and it is
doubtful if the tourney has ever boasted
such an all-round entry from practically
every State.
* * * *
“ILS.A.”: The slump is responsible for
turning Bobby Jones into a pro. When he
retired from competitive golf last year he
had every intention of making the law his
life’s work. Suddenly the business in his
father’s office fell off, and simultaneously
Bobby found that clients who were ready
to pay large sums to see him hit a golf ball
weren’t anxious to pay him for legal advice.
So he turned to the one calling in which
he is a supreme authority. He will super-
vise the making of Spalding’s de luxe clubs,
and give the firm’s products the best of
advts. by using them in future matches. If
he doesn’t add to his commercial value by
winning some more omm championships it
will be a wonder. Judging by Walter
Hagen’s feat of last week (he returned a
68 at Toronto in the Canadian “open”) the
Atalanta phenomenon has at least 20 years’
championship golf ahead of him. Great
golfers, like old soldiers, never seem to die.
* * * #
“Broke” : The decision of Canberra Golf
Club members to have the gajme cheapened
locally by at least 20 per cent, is likely to
be imitated in other parts of this hard-up
land before the year is out. At present a
game on Saturday afternoon—which is the
only time many are able to play—works
out at the average metropolitan club as fol-
lows : Green fee, Is.; competition entry fee,
25.: caddy and tip, 2s. 6d. Add the cost of
getting to the clubhouse, lost balls, expenses
at the 19th, etc., and you have a total which
is far beyond the means of players whose
incomes are 25 per cent, or more wofse than
they were last year—which is to say, 90 per
cent, of players. The most exasperating
and inequitable of all imposts is the green
fee. It means that a man who has paid £lO
by way of annual subscription and anything
from £lO to £lOO in debenture money (virtu-
ally an entrance fee) is required to pay
again each time he uses his own club. The
competition fee device means, in effect, that
a member has to pay extra for playing on
Saturday; the position being that most mem-
bers neither expect nor want to win a com-
petition, but are merely after a game. My
tip is that unless some of the rules framed
for the purpose of fleecing golf club mem-
bers are thrown overboard the rank and file
will do what the Canberraites are threaten-
ing to do—go where the golf is cheaper.
That is, in the case 0 f Sydney and Mel-
bourne, to municipal links.
Car and Cycle
“Formula” : The N.S.W. Automobile Club’s
reliability run to Kurrajong Heights saw only
one car collect the full 500 points, this being
a 4220-c.c. Buick owned by Otto Sandel,
which started in the D-class for cars over
4000-c.c. capacity. In C-class, T. W. Osborne,
with a 2628 Essex, dropped three points on
reliability and .5S for the hill climb, figures
being 496.32. The best performance in the
babies was 473.24, collected by W. Lowrie’s
840-c.c. Triumph. Other winners were W.
Mitchie, with a 1087 Riley in class B, who
scored 469.18; and T. A. Field, who came
home first in the class B superchargeds with
451.93. The influence of weight under the
formula used was notable. Cars which
recorded practically identical speed times
were placed all over the shop in the final
results.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: Victor Huxley, the
Queensland motor-cyclist, who has done so
well in Europe, finished up a recent run of
victories by. winning the individual champion-
ship of the world at Wembley Stadium, beat-
ing his competitor in the final, Watson, in
two out of the three races run. The sport
shows no signs of losing the popular favor it
has enjoyed since Australian riders and pro-
moters first started it on an organised basis
m Britain, and differs in this respect from
the “dogs,” devotees of the tin-liare showing
a teu <?pncy to lose interest in what
a N.S.W. politician has called “the poor
man’s -nort.” 1
* * * *
Sprocket : A great performance was put
up the other day by the Newcastle (N.S W i
cyclist Edgar Johns in winning the 100-
mile unpaced amateur road championship of
the State, the rider cutting out the dis-
tance in 4hr. 43min. and 43 2-ssec. The
best time put up for the distance by
an Australian, 4hr. 36min., stands to the
credit of that great pedaller Don Kirkham,
riding as a professional. This stood as a
world’s best for years, but has since been
lowered by Leon Meredith and other English
riders, the best figures being 4hr. 13min.
34 l-ssec., though road conditions in
Britain are far superior to those in Aus-
tralia. For years there was a special
trophy on offer in England for the rider tvho
could break five hours on the roads unpaced
for the 100 miles. The example was followed
in Australia, and Tasmanian Keefe was the
first on this side to get home under the
conditions.
Miscellaneous
"Backwoodsman”: Where is this craze for
“young blood” in sport going to end? The
N.S.W. bowls selectors are the latest to be
bitten by the bug. Over a dozen of the
team selected to oppose South Australia in
Sydney are making their first appearance in
inter-State bowls, superseding the hardy
veterans who have so often figured for the
Ma State in many a stricken field, the said
State being usually stricken also. Some of
the newcomers are said to be callow young
coots of barely 50 or so, and more than one
of them are actually reported as wearing
their own teeth !
;j: sjc ❖
“Sturt”: South Australia, though just not
strong enough for N.S.W. or Vic.- at base-
ball. had a big hand in the placings at the
Adelaide “carnival,” at which only these
three were represented. The two visitors
beat each other once, and each beat the
home side once. But S.A. tied once with
N.S.W., and then in the last match of all
helped Vic. to show how ’ball should be
played, American fashion. There was not
a single error—thought to be a record in
Australia, and not a run till. Vic. scored one on
the ninth, winning the game and the series.
❖ * * ❖
“Shell” : .After long years Australia is likely
to see a race for the world’s professional
sculling championship, which was once prac-
tically an Australian appanage. Ted Phelps,
the young Londoner who now holds the
title, which he won from Barry last year, is
to visit Australia for a race with the N.S.W.
Northern Rivers champion Burns, though
the custom in the past has been to beard
the holder of the title in his own lair. Such
a visit as that proposed would once have
set all Australia buzzing. Now it passes
almost unheeded. The last occasion the title
was rowed for in Australia was in 1926,
when Or'Aricoll beat, a brother N. S. Welsh-
man in Saul on the Parramatta.


Use CASH'S RIBBONS
for Shoulder Straps
-and th is just
CAN'T happen
N
BBS
Cash's Ribbons arc most
durable, and never break
or fray, once threaded,
you don't remove them
from the Garment —as
Washing RIBBONS
look like new after repeat-
ed washing. Made in
daintiest fadeless Pastel
Shades, with Brpcadcd or
Floral Effect itv various
widths-
Ask your Draper
for Cash’s.
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond Melbourne.
Legal Notice,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 904 of 1929.
Between JOSEPH IRWIN DIGNAM Petitioner and
ELLA MAY DIGNAM Respondent.
To ELLA MAY DIGNAM late of Wandsworth and
Movee.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed Joseph Irwin
Dignam has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Honorable Court on or before the Thirtieth day
of October 1931 and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or of obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitors free of
charge.
Dated this thirty-first day of July, 1931.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) 0. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
P. P. Abbott, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Glen Innes.
By Clayton Utz & Co.,
280 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 732 of 1931.
Between VERA LILLIAN O’NEILL Petitioner
And VINCENT DENIS O’NEILL Respondent.
To VINCENT DENIS O’NEILL late of Young in
the State of New South Wales Horsetrainer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VERA LILLIAN
O’NEILL has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the sixth day
of November next and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
Dated the 7th day of August, 1931.
For the Registrar,
(Sgd.) C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
FRED A. NEWNHAM, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Bull’s Chambers,
28 Martin Place, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
\Y/ ANTED KNOWN, the whereabouts of
W MICHAEL (MICK) McCONNELL.
wife or children (if any). Last heard of in
Cairns (Q’land). Sought for by 'is nephew,
PHILIP McCONNELL, 12 Chelmsford
Street, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE GONDOLIERS
CRITERION: MANY WATERS
TIVOLI CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE,
at the
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* ACTS FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD!
The Two Rascals, Neil McKay, Josephine Trix, Rene
Riano, Lily Moore, the Marbellos, Clem Dawe, Fred
Quintrell’s Band.
Box Plans at Palings. ’Phone (Theatre) 87255.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
the duchess of dantzic
(Commencing 22nd August).
T'IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE & REVUE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lenuon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguisher Social Lite.
Lieutenant-Commander Gifford, the buoy-
ant and smiling aide to the State Governor,
is a happy man these days. > His mother,
Mrs. G. H. Rayner, and her husband arrived
by the Niagara during the week-end. Mr.
and Mrs. Rayner are just travelling about
the world seeing what the various parts of
it are like. They, will be in Australia six
months.
The ball by which a large sum is raised
every year for Lewisham Hospital has been
shelved this winter. The committee decided
against the risk of large expenses and small
returns, and organised' a monster bridge
party instead. This was held at the Went-
worth last week, and both the ballroom and
the palm-court were packed with card tables.
There were over 500 players and the com-
mittee’s goal of £2OO was scored. One friend
of the hospital paid for the use of the Went-
worth, and another paid for the supper.
The president, Mrs. John Flynn, senior, came
surrounded by four doctor sons and three
daugliters-in-law. Mrs. Harry Daly and Miss
M Hollingdale were the secretaries, and Mrs.
W. N. Bull and Mrs. J. A. Kennedy the
treasurers.
In these days when picture-buyers are
few and far between, the Marshall Trust
Fund comes like manna from Heaven. But
there are four artists of the Royal Art
Society who must feel as though someone has
snatched their issue from their very lips.
The Marshall Trust Fund is somewhat simi-
lar in its working to the Felton Bequest.
A committee is appointed and its members
choose three or four canvases from some
representative art show for presentation to
the National Gallery. From this year’s
Royal Art Society’s Show four pictures were
selected by a committee comprising Syd
Long, John D. Moore, J. S. Watkins, John
Sulman, president of the National Gallery,
and Lister Lister, vice-president of the
National Gallery and president of the R.A.S.
And the surprise of the Royal Art Society
can be imagined when it was notified that
the Gallery had not accepted any of the
pictures.
The Marshall Trust is the gift of lawyer
Tom Marshall (an old member of the
Royal) and his wife to the form of art
which they most love. As they generously
say, why should not the benefits of the
bequest be felt while times are lean? Give,
give in the living present, might be their
slogan. Mr. and Mrs. Marshall are ardent
picture-buyers, and he, incidentally, is one
of the Gallery trustees.
Artist D. JET. Souter is sorrowing for the
sudden death of his wife and life-long chum.
She died at her home in Bondi on Sunday—
a charming little Scotswoman, who might
have been the inspiration for every Barrio
wife and mother. She had the fine, clear skin
that Scotland gives, a keen wit and a deep
admiration for her brilliant Dave. She will
be mourned not only by her own family, but
by a circle of friends as wide as the State.
Isabel Horsburgh was the lucky deb. of
last week. Knight Kelso King and his lady
gave a coming-out party for her in Quambi,
their garden-surrounded Edgecliff home. A
broderie Anglaise frock in deep cream tones
girdled with pink rose was worn by the
guest of honor. The ballroom was massed
with pink blooms. Isabel is the only daugh-
ter of the Horsburghs who were formerly of
Mount Morgan (Q.).
Every Australian woman who wears a
Berlei foundation garment is interested in
Mary Craven, that good-looking, brainful
young woman who now helps direct the
corset firm’s London activities. Mary, who
lived heart-free in Sydney, has succumbed to
Cupid at the other end of the world. She
married a few weeks ago, and her new name
is Spain. He is purser on the Barradine.
Mary will still keep to her career in eorsetry.
Mosman girl Wendy Palmer is cast for the
flapper part in “The Second Man,” the In-
dependent Theatre’s next play. This will be
at the old address, the Savoy, as Doris
B’itton thinks it requires the more intimate
atmosphere of the small theatre. Doris Clar-
ence Murphy and Neville Malley make up
the group.
Mrs. A. A. Dangar, who died at Baroona,.
the family station near Singleton, on Sun-
day, was a leader of N. S. Wales society at
the beginning of the century. Those were
days when a Dangar—either “Abbey,” her
husband, or “H.C.” his brother —was always
president of the Union Club, while Dangar
women took the lead in most charitable and
religious movements. The energetic little
lady, who ran Baroona like an English coun-
try house, found time in the intervals ot
looking after her children and grand-clnld-
ren to supervise the work of the cottage hos-
pital which was one of the family’s gifts to
Singleton, and do a lot of good work for the
Red Cross and Boy Scouts movements. Four
daughters and two sons survive her.
Sydney sighed regretfully to hear that
Dot Brunton had married a Melbourne com-
mercial magnate and wouldn’t be seen much
in these parts after her acting contracts have
run out. Humor is her strong suit socially.
Willie Kelly, ex-M.P., who is now in Paris,
used to say she was the cleverest talker he
had met. and as a raconteur there are few of
either sex to equal her.
Mrs. Hordern, wife of the cricket-playing
doctor, who died last week, was born a
Hordern herself. She was one of the daugh-
ters of “old Sam,” and married, when very
young, good-looking James Watson, who had
a passion for soldiering, served in the S.
African War and is said to have been first
into Ladysmith after the relief. He died
during the World War, and she re-married
only last year.
Architect Florence Taylor is on the war-
path again in the interests of her old friends
the veterans at Bare Island. The venture
is a Veterans’ Home dance at the Arts Club
on Tuesday, September 8.
It is as much as peace and harmony are
worth to mention politics in some houses. The
A.F.A. chiefs have a number of influential
ex-soldiers and commercial magnates behind
them, and squatters, who never had much
time for the citified Mr. Bavin, are hailing
bluff “Mick” Bruxner as the future leader
of the solvency forces. Many ex-soldiers in
the city have a kindly feeling for Mr. Brux-
ner on account of his distinguished war ser-
vice. The fight, which though silent is fierce,
is intensified by the knowledge that Mr.
Lang is not much longer for this political
world.
The Arts Society of the ’Varsity puts forth
fresh buds every year, and last week a great
posy filled the Blaxland Galleries. The
young male student contributed a black and
white background. The occasion was the
Faculty dance in aid of Prince Alfred’s.
Around president Dr. Firth’s table were
gathered fellow professors and their ladies;
Yolande Proctor, in black tulle; Isabel
McKinney, of the Women Undergrads.’
Association, and many others of scintillating
brain and smooth plumage. Selma Mutton
wore a shimmer of white satin, the coat
thereof gold-brocaded. She was secretary
of the girls’ committee. Norma Macleod’s
lilac georgettes and Elizabeth Blaxland’s
blue satins provided grateful splashes of
color, and Clare Spruson contrasted jade
ornaments and beige lace with cool effect.
But hundreds were charming.
The country home and the unemployed
city girls are being brought together through
the practical efforts of Miss K. Broun. Miss
Broun is one of the widely-known Tingha
clan, and she
has started
upon this task
of getting the
jobless girl
away from the
arid city
streets with
great energy.
Her lieadquar-
ters are a
little sereened-
off space on
the fourth
floor of David
Jones’s, close
to the office of
the Country
Women’s Asso-
ciation ; here,
helped by
sister Mrs. H.
C. Mclntyre,
Mrs. Maiden
and Mrs.
Innes-Noad, she interviews the applicants
and dovetails them with the offers she has
received from country homes. The girls
who seek employment through this source
are told they must not expect pre-depression
wages. But fares are paid by the employer,
and every possible effort is made to see that
the homes the girls are sent to are satisfac-
tory. Already close to' 100 girls have been
absorbed as domestic helps, and on Thurs-
day morning, when this Letter looked in,
there was a group of eager girls telling their
needs, and three just as eager friends trying
to get them settled.
Although all the women doing this work
are members of the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation. it is not an association activity.
There’s an underlying hope, of course, that
many of the city girls will grow to love the
Outback so well that they will settle down
and become real bush women.
A tea table on which Iceland poppies
gambolled for two or three furlongs was the
hurricane centre of the members of the
Flying Ball committee the other afternoon.
Plans were discussed, but speakers played
a losing game against the orchestra. When
a lady at one end of the table outlined some
detail, listeners at the other end had to be
satisfied with an explanatory wave of her
hands and the movement of her lips. Yet
it was one of the happiest meetings of the
week; sometimes close neighbors to a
speaker wrote down a word or two and
passed it along, and in an amazingly short
time it was known that the Wentworth has
been secured for September 12, Schneider
Cup night, that the world-famous event will
be broadcast through the ballroom, and that
committee members will wear wristlets of
dark blue, light blue and red (the club’s
colors) stabbed together by a tiny gold aero-
plane. There will be card tables for those
inclined to bridge, and Aero Club songs will
be sung when the night is not so young.
Mrs. Geoffrey Hughes is the president, Mrs.
S. L. Tyler the vice-president, the secretary
is Miss Radeski and Mrs. Perkins will trea-
sure the harvest.
Herewith Lali le Gay Brereton, who is
taking the part of Kate in “So Long, Mick,”
one of the five one-acters on the bill for the
Steele Rudd testimonial next Friday and
Saturday at
St. James’s
II a 11. “S o
Long, Mick,”
is the contri-
bution of Lali’s
poet - and-pro-
fessor father
to the pro-
gramme, and
everyone is
anxious to hear
the play with
the colloquial
title by an
author who is
noted as a
playwright in
the Eliza-
bethan tradi-
tion. Lali has
some good dra-
matic work to
her credit. She
was Daphne in
Steele Rudd’s comedy “Maclure and the
Poor Parson” last December at the Rail-
way Institute. Picture from Monte Luke.
On August 27 the Mayoress’s rooms will
overflow with, melody in the interests of the
Anzac Fellowship of Women.
That get-together spirit is urging the old
boys of Queensland Public Schools who now
live in Sydney and pine for their more tropi-
cal State to form an association. To this
end, 50 or' so of them organised a dance
at the Oriental the other night, and this
has every chance of becoming a yearly event.
Southport High School was represented by
E. T. F. Everdell, and Brisbane’s Church
of England Grammar by J. M. Gibson. K. IT.
McConnell was another well-known Queens-
lander at the dance.
Mrs. Bavin and daughter Valerie have
turned their faces for the second time this
year towards England. This time they go
by way of .Maoriland and Panama. Last
Easter the ex-Premier’s wife and daughter
got as far as Melbourne, when they decided
to turn back home and wait for some months.
Mrs. John Horn, who was Shirley Bavin, is
now settled in Surrey, and there’s to be a
family reunion.
Melbourne M.L.C. old-girls interested in
the formation of a Sydney club are asked to
get in touch with Mrs. H. V. Leckie, 20
Kenilworth-road, Lindfield.
_ Indoor shoes grow more and more decora-
tive. Black satin and silver kid are con-
trasted with good effect in some of the
sandals. Old-fashioned large paste buckles
adorn black velvet shoes; and sometimes
these aye hand-embroidered in silver and gold
thread. Black suede gloves of the sixteen-
button length are worn by the really fashion-
able woman with light or dark evening
frocks; tailored velvet coats and the bowler-
crowned hat, plume softened, are other items
that we who are short of purse will have to
contend against in the summery to-morrow.
Show Week in Brisbane:—
Exhibition week brought the Governor-General and
his lady to be guests at Government House. The
Premier and Mrs. Moore and the Mayor and Mayoress
met them at the station, and there was a reception
in the City Hall. Lady Isaacs wore a coat of black
Ottoman silk with tea-rose vest; the Mayoress was
in black and white; Mrs. A. E. Moore wore dahlia-
red, and the Blair lady was in black panne velvet.
In the Mayoress’s room, where tea was served before
the reception, sweet-peas ranging from pale pink to
brilliant flame decorated.
In the evening the United Service Ball was the
chief event. The G.-G.’s lady wore luminous parch-
ment and pearl and crystal ornaments. Lady
Goodwin chose beige silk lace. Major and Mrs.
Carter received the guests, she in black satin with
white camellias.
The Social Service League’s Ball in the City Hall
set the festivities going. Mrs. A. E. Moore was
president of the committee, the Mayoress vice-
president, and the Blair and Glasgow ladies were
among the committee. Twenty-two debs, were pre-
sented by Mrs. Moore to the Governor and Lady
Goodwin. They were Phyllis Gore, Loddie Marks.
Evelyn Lutz, Jean Shaw, Marga Harrod, Barbara
Drury, Joan Perry, Jessie McMaster, Peggy Bell,
Barbara Corrie, Kathleen Macgregor, Joan Taylor,
Grace Muir, Margaret Glasgow, Norah Butler, Helen
Gardner, Mary Jeffrey, Lennox Spalding, Mary Frank-
lin, Mabel Cormac, Alison Nelson and Jean Ralston.
White georgette, satin, lace, georgette, corded silk
and taffetas comprised the frocks, and posies of
white hyacinth, roses and golden pansies were carried
by the debs. Lady Goodwin wore black satin
with a camellia-pink mariette yoke. Mrs. Moore wa-
in cyclamen-pink lace and silver, and the Mayoress
in ivory georgette with a silver coat and white fox fur.
The people’s day, which is also the official opening
day for the National Show, was the fairest of the
week, and some 63,000 wandered through the flower
pavilion, loitered in The Bulletin court over the car-
toons and the new issue of The Bulletin Story-
book, prodded the fat sheep in the ribs, watched
the trotting contests and the jumping and admired
the grand parades of champion stock. Later they
watched the veteran Winkal win the champion axe-
men’s straggle. May Taylor, a girl in her early
’teens, won the higli jump on Ben Bolt, clearing
7ft. W. J. Affleck received the G.-G. and his lady
and the State Exes., and secretary H. Watson read
the address of welcome. This was Sir John Good-
win’s fifth appearance at a Brisbane Show', and he
spoke feelingly of it as his last.
At the official luncheon the Governor-General
eulogised Queensland’s products and potentialities,
and recalled that it held half the cattle in Australia.
There were a thousand guests. Lady Isaacs wore
navy maroeain, with a picture hat of navy:
Lady Goodwin was in star-flecked garnet maroeain,
with a fitch necklet; and Mrs. W. J. Affleck in
pencil-striped fawn raisin-wool repp.
Amongst the prize-winners in the red-polled cattle
section was a young bull bred by George V. at Sand-
ringham and owned by the Archers, of Gracemere.
The Persian cats and Angora rabbits (with wearing
apparel made from their fur) were a good display.
The tobacco exhibit was a great draw, and there
was a wealth of color in the red and gold and
greens of the piled vegetables and the brilliant
yellows and henna of corn-cob and maize. The
mining exhibit was another worthy feature, and the
ball of wool, like a world poised on the gleanings
of many fleeces, was in charge of “Tarboy” Grier-
son Brown, the old Bulletin writer.
In the evening there were numerous dinner parties
at Lennon’s. Many of the diners went on to the Girls’
Ball in the South Brisbane City Hall, where girls of
the Smart Set were hostesses. There have been dinner
parties at Government House, and the Nudgee Old
Boys had their ball in the City Hall. There was
a Movie Ball in the Carlton cabaret on the same
night, and supper darjees a-plenty at Lennon’s.
Brisbane has fed well. Nearly 140,000 peas were
shelled for the luncheon at the Exhibition alone.
The tenth annual Masonic Ball was in the City
Hall, lit with shaded lights and adorned with palms.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin were there. Mr.
and Mrs. G. Gillespie received the party; the Premier
and Mrs. Moore, and the Mayor and Mayoress were
other official guests. Lady Goodwin wore moonlight-blue
satin. Mrs. Moore was in rose beige, and cafe silk
lace coat with white fox. Mrs. Annand presented
17 debs.
Palms and ensigns decked the City Hall for the
Mater Misericordiae Benefit Ball, and the gallery was
crowded with onlookers. Their Exes, again were
present, Lady Goodwin in geranium-red satin; Mrs.
Moore was in tea-rose pink. Eighteen of the 24 debs,
were old pupils of All Hallows’. Peach blossom and
pastel-pink sweet-peas and Toowoomba violets were
on the vice-regal table.
There were races at Ascot on the public holiday,
and after the Show luncheon the G.-G. and his lady
came on to them. They were entertained at tea on
the committee-room verandah, which was adorned
with silver vases of Iceland poppies and sweet-peas,
the wives of committeemen and Ella O’Shea being
hostesses.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin were at the first
meeting at Ascot, Lady Goodwin in grey tweed
with a brown hat. Mrs. B. C. Bell was in red repp,
Mrs. D’Arcy Winten in navy satin romaine, Mrs.
Norman Nivison chose black satin, Mrs. J. Wardlaw
(Sydney) geranium-red, Mrs. A. E. Clements (Syd-
ney) black velvet and gold-brown fur, Mrs. Spencer
Branton (Sydney) navy satin romaine ; Mrs. Franklyn
Vale Mort wore green, and Mrs. Ernest Watt (Syd-
ney) a dahlia-red gown.
“The Country Girl” is doing excellent business at
His Majesty’s Theatre. Vera Spaull had an enthusi-
astic reception, and Lilian Crisp is making many
new friends. The opening matinde saw a full house.
George Wallace is doing well at the Royal, where
Bebe Scott, his pretty Titian-haired sister, who has
been with the Nellie Bramley co. in Perth, has
joined his vaudeville show.


TQ
c^S
♦«*
to<*
>***
a««
*«»'.
sS
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating —this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England, Call or write forj
your copy.
Write to Dept. Aloft,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
RIJREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
\ For Better,
Easier Sweeping-
Bissells
SWEEPER
BRUSH
CONTROL
With magic ease the new
Bissell sweeps thickest car*
pets without dragging—any
kind of carpet with NO HARD
BEARING DOWN on the
handle and will even sweep
linoleum.
Twice as much self-adjustability
as any other sweeper in the
world. Light—easy to handle
—sturdy—lasting.
Try a new Bissell—at leading
merchants.
Booklet on request.
Arkell & Douglas, Inc.
General Agents
Sydney, Melbourne, Auckland
Bissell Carpet Sweeper Company
Manufacturers
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
The Ladies’ Kennel Club’s show occupied
the dog pavilion of the R.A.S. ground, where
the grand choral effect of the usual barking
competition was recorded by talkie appara-
tus. At about nine in the morning of Fri-
day and Saturday the competitors came to
occupy their temporary kennels, and they
were very hoarse dogs who at the close of
the long day whined wearily to be taken
home. In wire cages reposed such parlor
pets as poms, pekes, pugs and toy terriers,
their boudoirs lined with pink, blue or green
with matching cushions. One poor darling,
a magnet for much sympathy, suffered from
a cold in her head. Mrs. Fritz Hart, who
makes a hobby of breeding black-and-tan
terriers, brought along a quartette led on
crimson leashes, the youngest of the bunch,
Kano, winning the championship in the
toy-dog section. The Chatterer was intro-
duced to some most friendly bulldogs. There
A whatsit surveys the
depression with equa-
nimity from the security
of a knitted jumper.
was Peggy, white
and brown, who
wears perpetually
an expression of
intense grief.
Poor thing, she
lost her mother
and brothers and
sisters in baby-
hood, and was
brought up on the
bottle. Another
most pessimistic-
looking brindlc
bulldog who prov-
ed on acquaint-
ance to have a beautiful nature was
Nancy. Her eyes are almost hidden by
wrinkles of misery, but she bears up
under the bludgeonings of fate. Only
one chow-chow (or should it be chiau-
criau?) was on view. Reddish golden brown
is this importation, with wonderfully thick
furry coat, large head and beady eyes. He
distrusts the press, and repulsed attempts
at an interview with the fiercest of growls
and the protrusion of a black tongue. But
to describe the exhibits is a matter beyond
words; hence the portraits by Landseer that
are sprinkled over this page.
Over the afternoon-tea table there was
much discussion among the doggy women
regarding the oldest breed of terrier. The
backers of the Scotch seemed to be winning.
No doubt they are very nice, but it must be
an awful trouble keeping their fringes
combed away from their bright eyes. Sealy-
hams, the hall-mark of swank in England a
few years ago, when no Rolls-Royce or
society novel was complete without one, are
making their way into favor here. There
was considerable altercation between a tyke
of this breed owned by Mrs. U. J. Nicholas
and another of the clan. The Nicholas hound
boasted a blue knitted jumper, which may
have started the argument.
Among those who showed Cairn terriers
were Nellie M. Patterson, the treasurer of
the flub, and Miss E. Grice. Melba had a
leaning towards this breed, and is commem-
orated among fanciers by a trophy for the
best puppy. Mrs. Alec McCracken, well
known in hunting field, brought along the
West Highland white terrier to the
show. The collies, though they had a digni-
iied, abstracted and aloof expression, were
not above taking a nip out of an unwary on-
looker, having a sense of humor that is all
thmr own. ihe Alsatians, on the other hand,
seemed to be taking an interest in every-
fflie attendance at Flemington on Saturday
was somewhat sparse and there was nothing
special about the dressing, save for a display
°. , e new hats, which take a vast variety
ot shapes and are decorated usually with
leathers Since the weather cannot yet be
trusted there were many fur and cloth coats
about. Mrs. Ivan Gutmann’s dull green coat
had a deep yoke and sleeves of Persian lamb.
Mrs. Fritz Hart's black-and-tan quartette.
Mayoress Luxton and Mrs. U. J. Nicholas
chose black with collars of white fur. Mrs.
Barry Thomson’s black velvet coat had
ermine cuffs and collar, and there was a
touch of the fur about her shady velvet hat.
Beverley Jackson’s black caracule coat
topped a sage-green frock, and her felt hat
combined the two colors. In the committee
ladies box Mrs. R. Turnbull wore pointed
fox furs with her Lido-blue gown and felt
anc * Mrs. Alan Currie was in black.
Mrs. Rupert Downes and Mrs. Clive Leonard
were also in this reserve. Mrs. M. Sallman
sported a suit of black velvet with a pink
bloxisette. Mrs. Geoffrey fl'aggar was there
with her commander, a trimming of black
astrachan embellishing her dark green cos-
tume. Mrs Percy Blackbourn wore a plain
gux- W w C ot \V coat with a P la * d R kirt and
felt hat. Mrs. A. V. Kewney, Mrs. E. A.
Spowers Mrs. Aubrey Gibson, Mrs. Phil
ijock, who wore an ensemble of rose-red
fitted in white, Mrs. L. Aldridge, Sally
and Len Buxton, who wore one
of the new shiny straw hats with a tiny
™to£?i? en feathf L’ were others who
watched the racing.
™ e , ,r lld Mayoral Luxtons gave the last
it ( rn 001 °f their three years’ civic reign
Aldermen, councillors
and c ty officials with their womenfolk were
the guests. Great bowls of pink and white
fruit, blossoms, roses and poinsettias made
a brave show in the Mayoress’s suite, where
after the meal there was chatter with songs
by Jessie McMichael and W. Cadzow to
accompaniments played by Mrs. Cadzow.
Daffodils, peach blossoms and brown velvety
pansies of huge size decorated the dinner
tables, laid in the old council chambers.
Mrs. Luxton’s black chiffon gown was topped
with a short velvet coat. Most of the
women chose black lace gowns, and everyone,
the night being cold, was forced to add the
fashionable little coats, many being brightly
colored. The Luxtons’ eldest sou, Lewis,
home from Cambridge on a holiday visit, and
their younger son, Tom, were there,
Mrs. .T. J. Liston, whose husband is
in the running
for the mayor-
alty, sported flow-
ered chiffon that
mingled many
shades of pink,
her rvrap being
jade-green velvet.
The Morell lady
wore an ermine
cape over her
lido - blue lace
gown. Mr s.
Lewis combined a
glistening black
coat with her
black lace gown.
Mrs. Hamilton was in pale blue lace, and Mrs.
Glanville Hicks selected geranium-red chiffon.
A dance and bridge party at Ormond Hall
had as its excuse the monetary needs of St.
Vincent’s Hospital. Mrs. W. Vance, presi-
dent of the St. Kilda Auxiliary, who wore
black georgette, and the hon. sec., Mrs. F.
F. Clauscen, who chose black lace, distri-
buted the tickets. Mrs. W. Cantwell, a vice-
president, in midnight-blue chiffon and lace,
companioned the assistant-secretary, Mrs. R.
C. Dare, whose georgette frock was of del-
phinium hue, in selling cakes and jams.
Misses L. and J. Duggan ran a sweets stall,
and Mrs. V. O’Grady was hon. treas.
To add something to the coffers of the
Austral Salon a bridge party and dance
was held at Mrs. J. N. McNicol’s home,
South Yarra. Mrs. J. L. Stein was organ-
iser'. The hostess, who wore black crepe
satin, was handed a posy of American
beauty roses by the Salon secretary, Iris
Shaw. Mrs. Beavis, whose white organdie
muslin gown was scattered with blossoms,
helped her mother to entertain, along with
her sister, Edna McNicol, who wore lace
of ruby tint.
The debs, of the last P.L.C. Old Collegians’
Association’s annual dance organised a hop
and bridge party at
Ormond Hall to
he 1 p unemployed
girls. Doris Moore,
in black chiffon,
and Burneice
Swaine, in biscuit l
and gold lace were the
hon. secs. Mrs. E.
S. Richards, the new
president of the
0.C.A., was there in
green georgette with
matching velvet coat,
and was given a
posy.
“Extraordinary, John, isn’t it, how they
breed all shapes and sizes?
To raise funds for the life school of the
Artists’ Society there was a fancy-dress
dance at the V.A. Galleries in Albert-street.
The decorations featured “Hell’s belles,”
among whom figured Cleopatra, Delilah and
Helen of Troy. Peggy Crombie, Jean Pear-
son, S. Atyeo and T. Challen were responsible
for the cheery party and its unusual setting.
Alice, daughter of the E. D. Pattersons,
of Eew, was linked to Valentine, son of the
T. A. Pettys, of East Malvern, wearing cob-
webby silk lace with a blush of pink beneath
and a white tulle veil. Shirley Grant came
from Tassie to partner Annie Patterson in
bridesmaiding. Their frocks were pale-
green organdie muslin, and they carried
posies of • primroses.
Scots’ Church was decked with aruru-
lilies and yellow blossoms for the knot-tying
of Lesley, daughter of the James Dunlops,
of Toorak, and Walter, son of the John
Muncktons, of Malvern. The bride was
arrayed in deep cream lace mounted on daffo-
dil-hued satin. Real flowers formed a Juliet
cap, from which depended her tulle veil of
old vellum tint. Her sister Olive attended
ir. golden-liued georgette surmounted by a
little coat with additions of brown fur.
Christ Church, South Yarra, saw the link-
ing of Edith, younger daughter of Dr. and
A visitor from
Mongolia.
Mrs. L. N. Hoy-
sted, and Fred-
erick, younger
son of the
.James Morgans,
of St. Kilda.
The bridal array
was white satin,
with a white
tulle veil de-
scending from a
wreath of
orange buds.
Shirley Camp-
bell attended in
leaf-green chiffon, with a wreath of pink
flowers. There was a dinner at Menzies’ in
celebration.
The Eastern golf associates played bridge
at the Wattle to aid the Berry-street Found-
ling Hospital and Infants’ Home, 110 tables
being occupied. Mrs. Harold Cohen, presi-
dent of the E.G.A.; Mrs. H. E. Little, cap-
tain, and Mrs. E. J. Fox, hon. sec., mar-
shalled the organising forces, abetted by
Mrs. Montague Cohen, president of the home.
By means of bridge parties £l5O was
raised for the establishment of an eye clmic
at the Homoeopathic Hospital, St. Kilda-
road, by the Brighton auxiliary.
At the Alexandra Club Mrs. John Rich-
mond poured tea at a farewell party to her
daughter Joan, Mrs. Charles Coldham, Jean
Robertson and Kathleen Howell on the eve
of their setting out for Monte Carlo, a jour-
ney to be made where possible by motor-car.
The reception-rooms were decked with blue
and yellow flowers.
Knight Robert Gibson christened the cars
to be used by the Monte Carlo-bound party.
Their names are Wattlebird, Kookaburra and
Bellbird. After the ceremony the travellers
were entertained at tea at the Palms, in
Alexandra-avenue, as guests of the Shell Co.
Dogs, fearfully and wonderfully made.
Eileen Castles, who was Marguerite in
the performance of “Faust” at the Royal,
sang the music without rehearsal, though her
last previous appearance in the part was at
the Park Theatre, New York, several years
ago. In the audience were sister Amy, Mr.
and Mrs. J. Westhoven, Dr. and Mrs. Maurice
Macgillicuddy, Jean Hambleton and Hum-
phrey Bishop.
The earnings of the Boutique at Alfred
Hospital for the last 12 months were £750,
£5O short of the tally in the previous year.
►Since the little shop was opened in April,
1923, it has added £4740 to the hospital's
funds.
Adelaide’s antics:—
A fine Sunday afternoon drew a crowd of 50,000
to Parafield to witness the parachute descent by
Mr. T. Reece. So congested was the traffic on every
road that motors could only crawl, and many were
still blocked near the aerodrome at 7 p.m.
Dancing is a feature at Adelaide Univei'sity. The-
Commerce Students’ Association Ball was followed
by a festive evening when the Social Club danced
in the Refectory. A night or two later the Lady
Symon Hall was full to overflowing when a dramatic
programme was given by St. Mark’s students. The
Bishop of Adelaide and Mrs. Nutter Thomas, Henry
Newland and his lady, and quite a long list of
Professors and their womenfolk wex-e among the
audience.
His Ex. always takes along a cheery party to
the theatre. He was at “The First Mrs. Fraser” with
Captain C. 11. Williamson in attendance, and his
guests were Captain and Mrs. J. E. Bain and Mr.
and Mrs. lan Hayward.
The Royal Institute for the Blind is having a hard
time; the hundred patients are turning out more
work than can be disposed of, and there is a large
stock on hand. An appeal for £lO,OOO has been
made and the public ai-e making a big effort to
respond. A huge bridge party, where 120 tables
were occupied, was held at the institution, and at
Port Adelaide a dance is being arranged.
A wad from the Speck:—
King’s Meadows Golf Links, Launceston, saw a
big roll-up of members and guests in glorious sun-
shine for the first round of the King’s Meadows Cup
and other competitions. Among players and on-
lookers were Mrs. Trevor Eardley Wilmot, Mrs. W.
P. Holman, Mr. and Mrs. G. R. Collins, the H. G.
Doolans, Mr. and Mrs. D. L. Hollis, the Robert
Hawkers, Mrs. Carl Stackhouse, Mrs. G. B. Rolph,
the Thynes, Mrs. Von Bertoueh, the T. A. Fields,
the Rod O’Connors, the 11. P. Harrissons and the
O. Hinmans.
Mrs. N orman Cameron and Miss Cameron (Chud-
leigh) have flitted to Japan. Mrs. Gore-Brown
(Devonport) joined them in Melbourne. They expect
to return somewhere about the end of October.
The Art Society’s Winter Exhibition is a very
creditable little show. Edith Holmes’s work, both
flower study and landscape, is distinctive; and among
other prize-winners are Madge Walker (poi-trait and
still life), K. McNeil (woodcuts), Mabel Hookey, M.
Dechaineux, Lucien Dechaineux, F. L. Rowntree and
E. M. Crow. A number of Tech. School students
wei-e exhibitors.
Mr. and Mrs. Hodgson, who have been living at
the Red House, Ferntree, took daughter Ruth to
Melbourne to be wedded, the bridegroom being
Second-officer Hand of the Maloja. Sheila Parsons
accompanied the party, and ’maided the bride at
Christ Church, Brunswick.
Toe H held a village fair at the City Hall in
aid of the City Mission. Mayor Soundy opened pro-
ceedings, and stallholders were busy until closing
time. Dancing and physical culture displays kept
things lively in the evening; the Derwent Bovs’
The kangaroo dog, for
some unexplained reason,
was not an entrant.
Band and the Bel-
lerive Toe H band
made cheerful
music throughout.
Alison Gray goes
to Sydney to hold
up the Speck’s end
of the stick in the
Australian women’s
golf championship
matches.
Some Westralian revels :
Coralie Clarke, who is making use of her travel-
ling scholarship in the Cold Country, has announced
her engagement to Leslie Rees, of South Perth.
Barbara Alice, eldest daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Humphrey, of Mundaring, has plighted her troth with
Captain Ronald' St. George Cole. Barbara met hex-
fiance while on a holiday trip to India.
A sarcophagus of a kingly size, grand with strut-
ting gods and princesses, was erected in the middle
of the Y.A.L. ballroom for the architectural students’
revel. At midnight an army of priests popped the
corpse of “Depression” into his tomb. He soon
came to life, however, and erupted favors with spurts
of magnesium. Bare-legged, bare-chested charioteers
distributed moi’e favors from a gallivanting baby
car. Mrs. Henderson, in black georgettes, Mrs.
Hargrave, slim in shell-pinks, and Mrs. Reg.’ Sum-
merhayes, whose black velvets were hoisted to
diamente shoulder straps, accompanied their archi-
tect husbands. Mrs. Brendon Garner was another
wearer of black velvets; Mrs. Parry chose midnight
blue; Gwennie Francis, in flowing laces, and Zoe
Bennett, in blue fish-net with posies of forget-me-nots
in her hair, were girl students px-esent; Mi-s. Tom
Flintoff wore flowered chiffons, Bei-yl Lockwood
black silk laces and Mrs. Jack Durack a medley of
rose and black; Hetty Forbes held her pretty head
above parchment satins; Betty Sewell’s white chiffons
glistened with silver; Mrs. Gordon Hislop favored
lettuce-green sprinkled with diamente. Organdie
frocks were plentiful and pink-tipped fingers peeped
demurely from a crop of colored mittens.
Margaret Howes and Jean Smith are getting
together a lot of new glad rags for the Minderoo
and six months’ holiday to Singapore. Jean’s sister,
Mrs. Philip Howitt, of that tropical town, will be
their hostess.
The Gargoyle Social Club of the Vacuum Oil Co.
held its annual jazz effort in Temple Court. Japanese
lanterns and balloons bobbed merrily over the poppy-
decked tables in the restaurant. The wife of the
general manager, Mrs. J. C. Murray, wore turquoise
chiffons aslant with draperies; Mrs. Max Rutter’s
black taffetas were cut with a two-tiered skirt;
Mrs. Bacon wore pink velvets; Mi’s. Provis made a
brave contrast with a Limerick-lace frock and a
coatee of black taffetas; ciel-blue georgettes suited
blonde Mi’s. Peter Felton; Mrs. Chute wore rasp-
berry ; Bccea Davies fluttered plum-blossom pink
and Claire Noonan leaf-green geoi’gettes.


zsmifiim
y&x
wn
A !V'•••'••::
Xvv/'/aV.wavay; . £
'gtsvM
1
v.'V*!
is
H:
»*&&???»<•
S»
1
-x<cc*<?
FORD CARS
TRUCKS AND
TRACTORS ARE
BRITISH EMPIRE
PRODUCTS
Comfort .
The Ford Town Sedan . . . Interior characterised by rich, durable, corded
upholstery, and appointments suggestive of luxury and quiet good taste.
« • far above the price. There are
specific mechanical reasons for the unusual comfort of the Ford car.
Three-point suspension, correct springing and double-acting shock absorbers
give restful riding ease, unexcelled by even costly cars. Standard Phaeton
and Roadster, £218; Sports Phaeton, £230; Sports Roadster, £235;
Sports Coupe, £295; Fordor Sedan, £305; Town Sedan, £315 all
. ... : . Prices r f.o.b " r nearest Fiord Works, Sales Tax
com
equi
fr
extra ... . Ford Motor Company of Australia Proprietary Limited.
(s7?!. »if.c
Stumbling on Melons.
MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING INTRODUCE US TO
ANOTHER OF THE QUAINT DWELLERS IN THE 'LOO.
TO Will Drummond the sunshine in
Triangle-street • smelt of leaves and
crushed grass; a yellow spring glory,
dim but potent, seemed to encompass him.
The satisfied sleepy light in his eyes indi-
cated that things were bad.
In the ’Loo he was “the Perfessor.” Behind
the inviolate precision of his speech and the
magnificence of his dignity, deeps of learn-
ing; were implied and taken for granted.
None of this was true; lie was not a profes-
sor nor learned nor in any way an expert in
the unknown. He was a tailor. But that, as
lie would have pointed out. was yesterday,'
He had fallen foul of tailoring long ago,
had told his customers that they were! vain
fools, and had walked out of that labyrinth
of affectation, leaving only the faint fruity
echoes of his scorn behind him.
Reaching Ettorc Scala’s fruitshop he
inhaled the odors round the doorway and
entered this cavern of gold and purple
shadows, of russet-red and green and yellow
lights. Et tore Scala looked up from the
ledger, the scowl on his vast face becoming
instantly an overpowering smile. ,
“Signor il Professore!” lie boomed softly
and closed the book. “Good morning!”
Will Drummond’s sleepy gaze roamed
round the purple and gold and green again
before the deep music of his voice sounded
in the cavern. “All my life, 4 Ettore,” he
said, “it has been my wish to sleep under
a counter.”
Ettore’s face withered faintly under his
shock of surprise. “A counter. Signor V” he
whispered.
“There is a classic of other years—you
perhaps do not.know a romance called ‘Alone
in London,’ Signor Scala?”
Ettore’s huge shoulders confessed his cul-
pable ignorance of this romance.
“No?” The heavy melody continued. “In
the affecting story’ a poor paper-boy finds
refuge in a shop and is’given a bed under,
the counter, where his papers serve, as bed-
ding and covering. He comes in out of the
snow, much as I do now.”
Some years of the ’Loo had made Ettore
a charitable man, or a man of open mind, at
least. But this Perfessor this morning....
Still, it was the Perfessor. One waited in
politeness.
“My landlady has just—er—thrown me
out,” Will Drummond told him gently. “That
is the snow to which I refer.”
This was another horse. The Perfessor
was coming to earth in a familiar ’Loo situa-
tion, and Ettorc clicked his tongue in sym-
pathy.
“I don’t know, I don’t know,” the deep
drowsy music crept out to its echoes once
more. “You are sorry, and it is kind of
you. But may ,it not be the propitious
moment, Ettore—may it not be here that I
at last achieve my destiny and make my bed
under a counter? Since that child’s story of
long ago it has haunted me as the sweetest of
all resting-places. Now, perhaps, it will be
mine.”
Ettore’s bewilderment vanished, giving
place’ to a smouldering indignation. Like a
monstrous Fate he leaned across the sug-
gested ‘ counter and tapped Drummond’s
chest with a thick dark forefinger. “Specos."
he hissed and was abruptly upright again.
“No e possibile, Signor il Professore—da
specos not allow.”
A torrent of venom leapt into the shop, a.
swift Italian fire that seemed to burn up
all grace and drowsiness in a hammering
thunder of invective jpoured over all inspec-.
tors, their generation and their tragic future. >
As abruptly as it'had torn the world asunder
it ceased, and Ettore, back in-the calm of
despair, looked sadly across the 1 counter at
Will Drummond. - ’ -
But the whirlwind of abuse and denuncm-.
tion had gone over the Perfessor’s; head. He
was staring dreamily at apples and apricots,
at the dark, wet warmth of cherries and
the bloom of plums. “ ‘The nectarine and
curious peach,’ ” he murmured, the slow
music of the words a haunting grace after
the harsh wrath of Ettore, “ ‘lnto my hands
themselves do reach’ —there is a poem in
our tongue, Ettore, to my mind the best in
our tongue:—
‘What wondrous life is this I lead!
Ripe apples drop about my head;
The luscious clusters of the vine
Upon my mouth do crush their wine’ ”
“Hist!” Ettore lifted his stomach off the
counter and crooked his forefinger porten-
tously in Drummond’s face. “Wine. ... A
little moment, Signor.” His face a mask of,
secret cunning he vanished. This miracle m
so large a man was hardly in being before,
he reappeared, a bottle in his huge-hand.
“Wine,” he explained, placing’it on the dis-
puted counter with a flourish. “We drink.”
This even more mellowed the shop’s! lush
beauty, Will Drummond’s breakfast having
been only that stormy interview with Mrs.
Bull.
“Ver’ fine poem. And you spik beautiful,
Signor. You, too, are'poet, I think.”
The perfumed haze lifted from the shining-
fruits, hovered over thejn a moment, and
drifted out on the ebb-tide of lazy dust. “I
have a kinship, Ettore, a remote kinship of
the spirit—that is all.. My name is that of
a minor singer of long ago. But I am a
dreamer, not. a poet.” The 'lulling melody
deepened, seemed to become part of the
quivering bloom and the perfumes, part of
the day. “ ‘Stumbling on melons, as I
pass’.. ..how lovely is that, Ettore!
‘Ensnared with flowers, I fall on grass’ ’,’
The music faded to the'echoes again. “How
do you like that, Ettore?”
“You spik beautiful,” Ettore repeated, his
bright keen gaze on the * Perfessor’s | face!
. “You know my daughter, my Giuseppa?”
“The child? A little. Wliy?’\
“Dis. ’Seppa become great ac-tress —oh
yes. Genius.” Ettore smote his brow and
his heart. “Wonderful. You make-a da
friend ’Seppa. Spik her- like dis, beautiful.
She learn, no?”
“But” - ; ;
“Wait.”- ‘ Ettorc threw Ins-forefinger at
Will Drummond and ad'monished him swiftly.
“You are frien’ of mine, and you ’ave no bed!
no ’ome. Over da wash-’ouse is a room, a
bed. It is yours. I make-a you present of
it, frien’ o’ mine.”
Will Drummond’s smile banished the
sleepiness from his face. “That is kind,
Ettore, very kind. I accept your present
gratefully. All my life, since first that
Andrew Marvell poem began to haunt me,
I have longed for a garden, to make my home
there. And your shop is a garden, or near to a
garden. You give me.that oid longing, Ettore.”
“It is nothing.” Ettore corked the bottle
and punched the-cork home.
“But I can’t take it for nothing. Isn't
there,something I ?can do for it—odd-jobs of
sweeping, cleaning windows or something?”
“Not for the room—that is present. But
plenty odd-job for the scran—for the three
meals a day. A room for a man ’ongry is no
good.”
The Perfcssor sighed in content. As always,
this half-century or so, things dramatically
bad resolved \ themselves into .adventure of
the spirit, the dramatically best of all. “Tell
me what I am to do, Ettore,” he said.
“Swip, clean-a da wind’, take-a da speck’
fruit, perhaps. take-a da basket orders to
customers—you don’ mind that?”
Will laughed. “I’ll be very glad to do it.”
Ettore’s wide face was suddenly a banner
of scorn. “And the tinklaphona. Sometimes
a woman call up. ‘Oh, Mr. Scala,’ she say,
‘I want a nice leetle fruit-salad, all de bes'.
Two-a da peach, three-a da pasli’, four nice
plums, ’alf-a da barian’”.... Epic derision
thundered in his voice. “You spik to ’er,
please, Signor,” he added wearily. “Me, I
burst at the tinklaphona, ... Plenty odd-job,
plenty work. But, most —you make-Ti da
friend ’Seppa.”
’Seppa’s great eyes—like quiet stars in
her narrow olive face —watched this new
friend, day in, day out. At any moment lie
might make that loveliness fall from his lips,
those cadences sometimes at first without
meaning but always full of potency and
grace. The fire of her own adventurous life
of the spirit was checked and softened in the
sound of his voice; the dramas she made
stopped short of horrifying or terrifying the
neighbors; a certain fury in her tales of
blood and comprehensive crime was denied
her for these months. Will Drummond to
smile and speak was enough, while spring-
drowsed her day or two and summer was
suddenly weary with autumn.
Will Drummond, sleepier than ever with
all these fruits of the marching seasons to
screen him from realities, was beginning to
feel their restlessness again. Things were
ominously good. He liked the Scalas ; ’Seppa
was a heavenly, little devil; and the Scala.s
liked him. The work was easy and could
always be shelved indefinitely while he talked
and listened to his voice. And the fruits
dreamed and breathed about .him in their
lustrous cloud. The rich Calm was heavy
with' meiyacC.,
Miss Meiribland brought it to a head.
“After;all,”.as Will told Scala, “my objec-
tive was always a real garden, Ettore.”
“Si, ■ Signor,’\t Ettore admitted sadly. He
was losing, an agreeable assistant; ’Seppa
was losing-an influence at once restraining
and potent. “ .
“And this woman—or, rather, her brother
—has a real garden. A market .garden, vege-
tables, fruit and flowers. ’ She is impudent
about, it —commiserates a man of my per-
sonality at work in a fruitshop, -'and' the like
—but she means well and us kind. Her
brother and his family go to Europe this
month. The idea is that I- take charge of :tlie
house and garden in their absence, and of the
men who will continue with the work.” o i
“Is.it far, this place ?”’Ettore asked.
“Half-way to Newcastle, : in;a fold of the
low hills, she said.” Will paused to .watch
a vision of Marvell’s garden gleaming in a
shallow, valley. “Her brother must -have ’-a
trustworthy man, not necessarily a technical
expert, she says.. She is to let me know this
week whether it can be arranged.”
It teas arranged, : and the restless menace
vanished in a brooding glory. Now all these
beauties would fructify and ripen under his
hand; he’would be part of it; the garden
would in spirit be his. His splendid destiny
was about to be fulfilled.
“Addio,” ’Seppa told him, her sad great
eyes searching his face to make it. firm in
her memory. “Walk always with God.” .
“Good-bye, ’Seppa.” He smiled. “Don’t
forget me.” ;
“I shall hear you speak wlieii you are
gone,” she said unsmiling. “Every day". .. .
On his way to the tram the lazy dust
seemed to upbraid him for wasted years
dreamed away here in the ’Loo. Man must
create, it accused him, or help to create. He
was late, he confessed,; but at least he was
here now, spurning these pavements in the
path to that destiny. Melons, the curious
peach, nectarines, would come into being by
his inspiration. now; he would be part of
their beauty on earth. A high smile touched
his lips as he boarded the tram; the far
dream was coming ’true.
It being near midnight,’Seppa’s strong young
voice was heard at the corner of Louper s-
lane:'“‘Good night,' Mrs. Vasari. Thanks
for taking me—the picture was lovely.
And Mrs. Vasari: “Sure you’re all right,
’Seppa?”,
“Quite all light, thank you. She glanced
at the moonlit blind windows of the back
of the shop. “They are gone to bed. But I
know where the key is. Good night.'’
“Good.night, ’Seppa.”
She pushed open • the back gate and came
into the broad moonlight of the yard. A
sudden sharp terror made her pause, staring.
A magnificent ghost, mystic grey in the
moon, sat on the garbage-tin watching her.
After a moment of horror, ’Seppa sighed and
glided swiftly to him.
“You are back,” she whispered, looking
into his face.
Remembered music filled the night. "1
am back home, ’Seppa,” Will Drummond told
her. “If it is home."’
' “It is home,” she said tranquilly. ( ‘ And
,the farm, the garden under the hill?”
” A shadow flickered over his face, making
,it a little haggard in the moonlight. “I made
a discovery there, ’Seppa,” he said lightly.
; “Andrew Marvell didn’t write his poem in
the rough-and-tumble of a—a garden. He
’wrote it in a fruitshop. Some cosy, drowsy
place in Tudor, London; a refuge in East-
' cheap or on the Bridge, possibly. Any chance
of my old job again, do you think, ’Seppa?"
She glanced at the blind -windows once
more before her eyes came tranquilly back
to his face. “There is a boy in your room
some weeks now. But he quarrels with papa.
On Saturday he goes.”
Will sighed and rose from the garbage-
. tin. “Right-o. I’ll”
“Wait.” Her gaze compelled him. “You
are here, and it is home.” She caught his
“ sleeve. “Make no sound,” she murmured. “I
have the key—there is the shop”
Newspapers from the pile beside the scales
for a pillow under the counter; newspapers
! for covering; the half-dark in the dreaming
heavy odors; ’Seppa’s transfigured face wish-
ing him a silent good night; and here now.
under the counter at last, after this half-
century or 50... .
Sleep hovered in deep happiness over him,
playing in and out with old words and
floating thoughts on the fringe of ebbing con-
sciousness. ITere it all was again, and tins
1 child’s waking imagination to control and
direct —how much a dream one’s own destiny
could be.... Presently, in the last moment
of consciousness, the old words came bark
again :
Fair Quiet, have I found thee here,
And Innocence, thy sister dear?....


morse chain drives
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles —Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
vXia” d THE V 'wIsTINGHOUSE BRAKE^CO.'^OF‘'aUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. '
“THE AGE ”
Established 1854 •
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 119,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH"
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Che Ikw Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men!
Greater Brisbane Contains
of Queensland*s
Entire Population,
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 B °/o
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary,
* * *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marlcet, from:
Che Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents- H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
'j&uLUtCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £35.
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS,
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 20th August
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 17th September
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 15th October
Christmas Excursion.
Lovely Rarotonga. Another 23 days’ tour.
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI” from Sydney, 24th December, 1931.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £45; SECOND CLASS RETURN, £34
" For further particulars apply—
UNION S.S. CO. OF N.Z. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: 87671. Tel.: Central 8393.
If any illustration in
to the MANAGER, who
will quote
takes your fancy,
you price for the
write
Che mercury
• —by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,’* Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
fflt
LARGEST CIRCULATION
JH WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE GREATEST ADVERTISING
MEDIUM IN THE WEST.
SUPREME IN COUNTRY AND CITY.
The country circulation is superior to all others,
and the metropolitan circulation exceeds the
combined circulations of all other principal
Perth weekly papers.
Sydney Representative:
HAT. JOHNSTONE, Wingello House,
Angel Place. ’Phone: 82323.
Melbourne Representative:
M. A. NODIN,
44 Orchard Street, North Brighton.
ď
f
d
ďf
d
ď
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
y-
0°
*1 V ...
S®
\\*
3'
6
\9
•' . •' . * *"
..•* ..•• #Vt>
*■ V o<


National Debt
Conversion Loan
HOW TO CONVERT
FOLLOW THESE POINTS:
x!>
xg>
Xs>
x§»
r§»
Send in your application in writing, either by letter or on
an application form.
If you hold Bonds, send them with your letter. That is
important.
If your Bonds are held by a bank, write to the Bank
concerned, saying that you desire to Convert.
If you hold Commonwealth Stock, address your letter
to the Registrar of Stock, Commonwealth Bank, at
any Capital City, or at Rockhampton, Townsville or
Launceston.
If you hold State Securities, address your letter to the
Principal Officer of the Treasury of the State concerned.
Convert QUICKLY —Write your letter NOW! Don’t
delay a moment —it is URGENT!
r
I ■
AT ANY BA
Prime Mmister.
Leader of the Opposition.
We,
tvb'ii-
cot
Chairman of Director -
of the Commonwealth E ink.
