

Hi
■
.s
'
»■- • ■
Wm
mi
: ; .:V
ip»
'■
~s
*8
r.;;
'
W
r
wS>
J
-Cg£l
■
■>
-•#
4&\
m
. <
■
?
MX
m
■
- >:
W -
:
*
I'f?
: -S.
I -fesK
■■s :
■Mi
■ V •'.• ’, • V
Im' i
* AS
.
• ■ Xf >: ■ '*f
3S 3®
pi .SHB
* :«K*
<C
I*
<£ ',-
*
• v:
1 *■» " “if. ■' ■
I . • 1*: • .. -jaw
•V -
£ \
*! m
h r x
K i'
%;■
g|&fggOj
I £ s #k :
||t f'J
** , , X
9 » ’■
• » i
'" « i
M
A
'
Hlffili
v v -.. ,
-
/: B
S 3
.- -fK-A* -
Wi a proud pedigree”
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY
The Bulletin
SCKSjjL &
Vol. 52.—N0. 2681.
Wednesday, July 1, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o uR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
•flona^rttwq
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street , Melbourne!
Please semi, without obligation, your New,. Pree
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System oj Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My
My Address
S.B. 331
TJYSAGHT
O
0
ft
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
FOR ALL AFFECTIONS OF THE
THROAT,CHEST AND LUNGS
HUDSON'S
EUMENT
JUJUI
Recommended by the medical pro-
fession for over 40 years, and uni-
versally regarded as the safest and
most effective safeguard against all
affections of the throat, chest and
lungs.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
A
m
Big Foreign Trade
in Hawaii, May,
B
Meeting
1032
USINESSMEN, Buyers and Executives of Aust:alia should make
their plans now to attend the big National Foreigi Trade Conven-
tion at Honolulu next year. Hawaii is already 2 rranging a special
welcome and entertainment for those who attend. Honolulu has been
selected as the central location for business leaders of the whole Pacific
area, to gather and discuss and transact trade to the r mutual benefit.
Leaders of American industry have indicated theii intention to be
present, and it is expected that other countries will have distinguished
6th, 1932. Id is
representatives at the meetings, May 4th, sth and
hoped that leaders in Australia will take full advanttge of this oppor-
tunity to attend the greatest meeting on Internatioml Commerce ever
held in the Pacific area—open to all who care to regi ter as delegates.
Following the trade meeting in Hawaii, another is leing called in San
Francisco by the Chamber of Commerce. Ip addition, the Fourth
Pacific Rotary Conference will meet in Hawaii, preceding the Rotary
International Convention at Seattle in June of that:year.
Special excursion fares available. First-class accommodation from 15/-
per day, including meals.
For further details and any information about the trip to Hawaii, see
your nearest steamship or travel agent, or write for literature direct to
Hawaii
G
Dep t .
17,
Tourist Bureau
***•**•••’ *****
box 1627 b.b..
G.P.0.. Sydney
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A French Romantic
Anyone who likes opinion to be as
emphatic as garlic will find to his taste
that of the Touring Club d'e France on
Charles Maurice Chenu’s My Canoe
(Scholartis Press; 7s. 6d. net). The club
called it the best book of the year on travel,
and adorned its opinion with the hearty
garnishing of 5000 francs. In the transla-
tion of Bertram Ratcliffe it is a delightful
collection of brevities, of adven-
ture and excitement on this and that quaint
river of France, in the spirit of Travels
with a Donkey and Belloc’s Hills and the
Sea, but with its owm kind of distinctiveness.
That peculiarity lies in a certain Gallic
turn of humor, warranted to make far more
delicate situations than some of those
chronicled censor-proof even in such an old
ladies’ seminary as the Australia of this
Year of Wowsevistic Disgrace. Chenu’s
manner is not that of his canoe; he does
not skim. When he touches he makes con-
tact. There is something , electric in his
style. He does not so much see things worth
seeing, as Belloc does, or see things worth
thinking about, as Stevenson does. He
makes things worth seeing. He does not
glimpse the grand spectacle, standing like
Belloc in amazement before the frontier
ridge of Andorra, nor does he stretch out
like Stevenson with the immensity of the
night about him. He sees the grandeur that
is in little things. Even such a stream as
the Creuse can be full of excitements, cul-
minating in:—
But what was this barrier not far from us now,
stretching from bank to bank? Clearly it was no
ordinary weir. Approaching, we were enlightened
by finding that the river did, indeed, come-to a
sudden stop (and we had thought the Creuse could
hold no more surprises). Beyond the barrier, sure
enough, lay the river bed. but without a sign of
water. Then, on the right bank we saw a gigantic
pipe leading into a factory. This pipe sucked in
the river, rinsed its mouth with it, so to speak, and
spat it out again a hundred yards below the factory.
Think of all we had endured thus far to find, in
the end, that sofneone had pocketed the river before
our noses.
All little things become momentous happen-
ings: a vision in pink on the bank; an inn
with the impassable sign, “A la Grace de
Dieu”; upsets in the ferocious rapids of
those Amazonian streams; a little fortune-
" a hotel at night, with the cards
i affair .with the chemist’s wife
table; a little sun-baking and
ng in the altogether, disturbed
in he rival of a girl with a bundle of
• the one bank and the keeper
of the trout on the other. Chenu is a
lucky man to have kept his degree of curi-
osity in spite of having been to the war.
To most who were there nothing comes
altogether as a surprise. But this little
volume may really be the.reaction of one
of them from the surfeit of pageant and
spectacle, to find romance in trivialities.
Some Strachey Explosions
Lytton Strachey, too, rather deserts the
grand spectacle in favor of the trivial but
engaging in his latest suite of historical
bagatelles, Portraits in Miniature (Chatto
and Windus; 6s. net). He has been heard
—I think that' is the right expression—to
better advantage. The pieces, somewhat
dignified by the title of essays, appeared
in the “New Statesman” and other papers,
and, sparing the fact that Strachey at his
thinnest is never dull, and not including
his “Boswell,” “Congreve” and a couple of
others, in those journals they might well
have remained? Perhaps that is a little
ungracious, when the mere opening of the
“Boswell” alone is as good as it is:—
It would be difficult to find a more shattering
refutation of the lessons of cheap morality than the
life of James Boswell. One of the most extra-
ordinary. successes in the history of civilisation was
achieved by an idler, a lecher, a drunkard and a
snob. Nor was this success of that sudden explo-
sive kind which is frequent enough with youthfu!
Reoius —the inspired efflorescence of a Rimbaud or
a Swinburne; it was essentially the product of long
years of accumulated energy; it was the supreme
expression of an entire life. Boswell triumphed by
dint of abandoning himself, through 50 years, to his
instincts.
Not a new verdict, but surely a fine opening.
That he can be equally strong in ending
is evident in the close of his “Congreve”:—
Fireworks do not. cease to be exhilarating and
beautiful because it is dangerous for inexperienced
governesses to play with them. The comedies of
Congreve must be ranked among the most wonderful
and glorious creations of the human mind, although
it is quite conceivable that, in certain circumstances
and at a given moment, a whole bench of bishops
might be demoralised by their perusal.
Which, additionally, states the whole argu-
ment against censorship as it is so grotes-
quely practised in Australia.
A Literary Lapse
The bracing
Strachey crops up a
bit too startlingly
in another Chatto
and Windus booki
just to hand—
Eighteenth-century Poetry, an anthology,
chosen by the Australian poet W. J. Turner,
which is No. 69 in the pocket Phoenix
Library. Inadvertently, no fewer than 16
pages of his Eminent Victorians occur in
the midst of Swift’s “Cadenus and Vanessa,”
to its utter ruination, and doubtless to the
mortification of Turner. wKo in his intro-
duction makes a special point of the
inclusion of Swift’s long poem. A pity,
because Turner’s book otherwise is capital.
As one Australian to another, I offer him
such consolation as he may be able to
glean from the fact that my copy of
Lawson’s verse is printed upside-down, and
seems to read quite as w T ell that way.
An Australian’s Bright Novel
Also the work of an Australian is Helen
Simpson’s ’Vantage Striker (Heinemann;
7s. 6d. net), though it is hard to accept that
an Australian wrote it. That puzzlement is
not brought on by the superficial circum-
stances that it is set in London and has
for its people an athletic Englishman, a
titled English girl, Lord Cumnor (her
father), some Scotland Yard detectives, a
London nerve specialist and sundry eminent
politicians of the City of Dreadful Fog.
It is induced by the fact that the novel—
some little distance off being a big w r ork,
by the way—is written in a light-heart spirit
for which one searches Australian-written
writing mostly in vain. Such work isn’t
done here; and I feel pretty sure that
Helen Simpson, had she remained here,
would not have done it. That is not to
disparage the local product; ’Vantage
Striker, though decidedly clever and very
engaging to read, with, as the title promises,
passages descriptive of sport that are especi-
ally good, is still pure ephemera. But the
spirit of it is as sunny as England and
Australian literature are not. It has wit,
bright and glancing, by comparison with
which most of our humorists are somewhat
sombre. For instance, the girl of the story,
Lady Sarah Benedict, has just told her
father, Lord Cumnor. that she intends get-
ting married to a young man. Lord Cumnor
took another sip and inquired :
“And is the young man aware of your intention?”
“Oh. yes,” responded Sarah, cheerfully, “it was
his idea.”
The novel turns to mere murder mystery,
but there are frequent flashes of return to
reality, and at least one or two of the people
live.
The Ford. Philosophy
RED PAGE.
Another current book in which things
run rather counter to what is generally
accepted in Australia is Henry Ford’s
Moving Forward (Heinemann; 8s. 6d. net),
in which, in collaboration with Samuel
Crowther, Ford repeats and elaborates upon
the basic principles of his philosophy—
that high wages and prosperity are bed-
fellows, that machines are made to serve
and not to save, that production exists
to create goods which will serve people,
and that supporting people is no part of
the purpose of industry. The book bristles
with epigrammatic support of those main
principles, most of which wake curious
echoes in the prevailing Australian scene.
Only disaster can result when the fundamental
principles of business are disregarded and what looks
like the easiest wav is taken.
Prosperity and progress are in things yet to be
made.
The manufacture of stocks can be carried on in
much the same way as the manufacture of articles,
and their prices can be run up in the same way
as commodity prices and with the same eventual
result.
Ford believes that regulating wages on the
cost of living is only a way of putting into
effect a kind of slavery, “an utterly illogical
method, for the standard by which you
measure is thereby made to depend on the
thing measured.” There is criticism, too, of
the latest Australian makeshift, rationing,
implicit in:—
Employment and high wages are so inseparably
linked together that the concern which pays low
wages to more men is a public menace, a positi-e
barrier to economic progress, as compared with the
(oncern which pays high wages to fewer men.
Henry’s philosophy is as much a product
of a machine age as are his cars. For that
reason, that it belongs, it quite likely has a
rosy chance of being alive when Marx is
only a bad spelling of a planet.
Lawrence’s Collaborator
In his Son of Woman, the story of D. H
Lawrence, John Middleton Murry gives
high praise to Lawi'ence’s collaborator in
The Boy in the Bush. He says:—
/‘The Boy in the Bush” is a strangely beautiful
book. It is so largely because Lawrence did not
have to invent it. He could clothe his collaborator’s
(Red Page continued on pagg 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”-—The expression of reality.
Anthony Horderns'
“The Senior Store”
offer
Australia’s Two Greatest Values in
RADIO
4- Valve
All-Electric at
f 14 17 6
Actual Value, £27/10/-
rh-hrfThrfTfrfS^t
I
il
A handsome Console Cabinet Model, beautifully finished
in Satin, dull-polished Walnut.
With this four-valve set we guarantee faithful reproduction
and ample volume. The single-dial control makes tuning-in
easy, and the separate volume control enables you to get
just the correct tone for any- occasion.
Complete with Dynamic Speaker, adapted for Gramophone
pick-up. Guaranteed for 90 days.
The price quoted does not include installation.
Price £27/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price £l4/17/6
nrj »
Ihe Lossor
Melody Maker at
f3'ls'o
Actual Value, £lO
m
m
m
A
Can be built in 90 minutes, like this.
The Cossor Melody Maker is specially suitable for country
use.
Never before have such amazing results been possible with
only three valves!
For economy of maintenance the Cossor Melody Maker
is without equal.
Build it according to the simple instructions enclosed, and
you’ll be proud of it. In appearance and performance it
will be indistinguishable from any Receiver costing three
times the price.
Price • • £lO
Anthony Horderns* Special Price £3/15/-
Supplied in Sealed Carton, with full instructions for assembling.
©
Cpssorjy?
We,
96
«4n
•Hit
Everything you need, including Valves, Cabinet and Tools, is packed
in a sealed carton, as illustrated above. Loud Speakers and Batteries
are not included.
EXTRA ACCESSORIES REQUIRED.
2-volt 60 A.H. Accumulator. Price 15/-
120-volt B. Battery. Price £l/9/*
Cone-type Loud Speaker. Price £l/10/-
Radio Dept.—Second Floor—Free
Delivery City and Suburbs only.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Anthony Horderns'
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Full of Energy and Cheer
The two letters reproduced here are from
people who suffered from nerve-weak-
ness, listlessness, lack of energy, etc. Read
how quickly Sanatogen helped them to
recover strength and vitality.
“It is years since I felt so
well and happy. I was full
of pain and depression
through indigestion and
nervousness, but now,
through Sanatogen, the
world and all that is in
it is brighter and more
cheerful.”
MISS G. H., LONG EATON.
“ Before I had finished
my first tin of Sanatogen
I felt great relief and
could eat and sleep better.
I am a new woman and
now, when I feel tired
and a bit “run-down,”
I take Sanatogen and I
am all right.”
MRS. A. H„ NETHERFIELD.
e
è


There’s life in the
mellowness of
McCallum’s....
ask for it!
(trCallums
(flhisky
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
McFARLANE BROS., Hobart.
story in an added glory of flesh and blood, and
pour out the riches of his imagination upon the
given theme. But someone else planted; it was
Lawrence who gave the increase. If Lawrence had
written it alone, it would have been a far poorer
book than it is. With the burden of foundation
removed from him, he was free to make it an
amazingly rich one.
But it is an oversight, surely, not to men-
tion the name of. the woman with whom,
after all, Lawrence chose to collaborate.
When he did so, few young writers did not
envy M. L. Skinner. Although she had
written one book. Adventures of a V.A.D.,
which showed delicate and intrinsic quality,
for the meteoric genius of D. H. Lawrence
to ally himself with a little-known' writer
of West Australia was in the nature of a
phenomenon. So stirred were literary
circles in America and England by gossip
of the mysterious M. L. Skinner that one
gallant critic even declared “there was no
sich person.”
Later, in Black Swans, Miss Skinner mixed
the properties of a “a Deadwood Dick” and
a psychological novel of the modern school
in a manner so naive and so robust, with
a flowing glamor in the descriptive pas-
sages, that the critics agreed D. H. Law-
rence was right. Here was a writer whose
vigor and sensibility, given their natural
expression and a basis of reality, would
produce literary fabric of first-rate signifi-
cance.
Those opening chapters of The Boy in
the Bush, making a pencil drawing of Fre-
mantle in the early days, are all M. L.
Skinner, and convey the graphic simplicity
of her style. But with the exception of a
few journalistic skirmishes nothing has
been seen of her work since Black Swans
was published.
Discouragement and the struggle for
existence, again, would seem to have over-
cast a star glowing on our horizon. These
words of Middleton Murry’s should dis-
perse obscuring vapors. That one of the
most brilliant writers of his time thought
so highly of her work as to wish to col-
laborate with her is a feather in Mollie
Skinner’s cap, and, although she would not
dream of flaunting it, her friends like to
wave it in the wind a little on an occasion
like this.
KATHARINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD.
Revolution
The theme of The Battle of London, by
Hugh Addison (Herbert Jenkins, Lond.;
Robertson and Mullens; 7s. 6d.), is a Com-
munist rising. The Comrades collar the
Labor machine under the leadership of “the
Right Honorable J. A. Locock, who through-
out the years following the Armistice had
posed as a moderate man, always on the
side of compromise and ‘straightforward
constitutional methods.’ ” The Liberty
League is organised, and shortly afterwards
the upheaval starts.. The Reds converge on
London from all points of the compass.
There are battles as far east as Shoreditch
and as far west as Hammersmith. To quote
the caption of Chapter XI, “Westminster
Digs Itself In.” All the approaches to the
administrative area—the Trafalgar-square
end of Whitehall, Carlton House steps, the
Piccadilly entrances to the Green Park, and
so on—are sand-bagged and mounted with
machine-guns by the Leaguers. General
Tomlin, the Bolshie G.0.C., makes the
National Gallery his h.q., and after an
artillery preparation by trench mortars near
the Nelson Column the attack is launched
in the direction of Parliament-square.
Later:—
“Do you say the attack’s absolutely held up,
Fisher?” The General turned sharply on a '.red-
laced man of about-35, with the four .short bars' on
his sleeve which denoted.major’s rank,'
“No doubt about, that, sir, I’m afraid,” was the
reply delivered with soine trepidation. “They simply
couldn’t advance. The fire was ’ellish.”
There is a second attack, also abortive,
and then looting begins, in the ~ course of
which, much to Tomlin’s annoyance, one
of his S.O.’s, a Russian Jew, gets away with
a. Rembrandt. There are also executions—
of Leaguers by Reds and vice versa —and
more bombardments and charges, until the
tanks come into action and drive the s Reds
before them. About this time the mis-
guided Germans butt in, and are licked.
Comes a day when Hunter, the, journalist
who started the Liberty League, is inter-
cepted by one of his own patrols in the
now peaceful Strand. The subaltern in
charge, suddenly recognising the national
saviour, roars: “Company r-right turn!
Pr-resent arms!” England is safe.
The novel is rather queered as a picture
of what might happen in London by the
necessity the author is under of stressing
the value of the Leaguers. There could be
no serious trouble in the metropolis while
the regulars remained loyal. Periodical
attempts are made to corrupt them, of
course. The post-war “Aldershot Mutiny,”
n i j some present-day R.A.N. officers
helped to quell, was the disastrous outcome
oi one. But Liberty Leagues will be
superfluous while London has in and around
it the world’s best storm troops with their
moral intact. That is, the Guards regi-
ments (some in barracks within a few
undred yards of Whitehall, and others at
W mdsor and Aldershot), crack artillery and
and the Tanks Corps, which,
J ou jffi Jts h.q. is in Dorsetshire, could flood
London with tanks inside 12 hours. The
writer saw the general strike killed at birth
s Tanks in 1926. It began at
mi night, and the soldiers were in effective
possession of every strategic point—the
docks, Hyde Park, and so on —half an hour
later.
This book, though it has no pretensions
to literary merit, is of interest to Australia
because our capital cities are wide open to
the sort of disorder which is depicted in
it. We have practically no army—or, any-
how, no regular army, and any other kind
of army is more danger than it is worth
in times of trouble. It is a queer fact
that England probably owes her freedom
from violent revolutions to the Army Act
which was designed to prevent standing
armies. It produced a small, volunteer army
which, though it nominally dies and 'is
resuscitated by Parliament every year, is
really as permanent and hence as difficult to
corrupt as the R.N. Our remedy doesn’t
seem to lie in organising Leagues; even the
one in “The Battle of London” could clearly
have done nothing without the Army, and
national leagues are subject to the same
processes of disintegration as national
armies. Counter-propaganda appears to be
the only prophylactic in the circumstances.
There is plenty of material. The rank and
file of the workers never get anything out of
violence. After killing one another whole-
sale, and seeing their dwellings and the
institutions that hold their savings and
jobs ruined by hoodlums with nothing to
lose, they go back to toil worse off than
before. That is the real moral of “The
Battle of London.”
J.B.D.
A Satchel of Books
Through Other Lands (Edwards, Dunlop)
is the record of a world tour by John J.
Gay, a veteran N. S. Wales journalist. Mr.
Gay’s book is the masculine equivalent of
“Seventh Heaven,” though not so sophisti-
cated or as cleverly written. The writer
looked at everything, saw that it was good
and decided that Australia was better. This
is probably the conclusion come to by 99
p.c. of the average globe-trotting Australian
citizens whose passage money swells the
dividends of the steamship companies.
How to Become an Effective Public
Speaker, by William Bottomley (Robertson
and Mullens, 2s. net). Mr. Bottomley is
tutor in public speaking to the Melbourne
University Extension Board and the Work-
ers’ Educational Association and tells all he
knows about it. It is doubtful if public
speaking can be taught. Some of it ought
to be suppressed by legislation. Most of it
is a matter of retailing platitudes they
already know by heart to the already con-
verted. However, thousands of young men
and ladies perhaps not so youne are doing
it, under the firm conviction that it is the
surest way of saving the country. Most of
their efforts could stand improvement,
especially in the matter of grammar and pro-
nunciation, and if Mr. Bottomley’s book
helps in those respects it will be a boon to
the press reporters charged with the task of
turning illiterate incoherence into the sem-
blance of dignity and rationality. It is a
sign of the times that the book is a local
best-seller.
The Changing Three, by Eleanor Dunbar
Hall (Jarrolds, Dymocks; 7s. 6d. net), is
a tale of three generations. Miriam, a
shadowy mid-Victorian, who married three
times, is the central figure. The servant
Anna, who calls herself a gypsy but isn’t,
emerges masterfully from the void, takes
charge of the ineffectual Miriam’s affairs,
frustrates the lady’s abominable first hus-
band, and provides her with a second while
the children are arriving and growing up.
The children develop along familiar lines.
Veronique is the most truculently 1931 of
them. The novel would be more interesting
if the theme weren’t so old, and more con-
vincing if the writer were better informed.
For example:—
“You see,” Constance, who was now sixteen and
very - superior,'- said, “Richard showed no aptitude
for, a our "father was a well-known bar-
rister—and' so 4it was thought better that he should
go , into ? business. An opening has been offered to
him through a friend —our father’s former partner.”
Even the most modern London girls know
that Inner Temple barristers don’t have
partners.
The sub-title of Shining Wings, by D. M.
Maclntyre (Cecil Palmer; '7s. 6d.), is “A
Highland Tale of LpVe and Life.” However,
any reader who takes Mr.-Macintyre for a
Caledonian Elinor Glyn will be disappointed.
The . lier.o is one ME, Mathieson, who “is
accustomed to speak to his friends as if
they were" liis intellectual equals,” and thinks
nothing of breaking into ‘a' friendly chat
with: “There are organisations in our
social life, each of which has come into being
for a specific object. The prayer, aspiration
and prophecy of Robert Burns have not
materialised ’ because those of kindred spirit
have not themselves, answered their prayers.
The League'of Nations "is a noble conception
aiming at. the federation of the world” —and
so on for two or three pages at a time. The
characterisation is weak, but there is some
interesting stuff about the Western Hebrides.
This is probably the first love-story on record
with an appendix containing 29 Notes and
290 References.
The Master Key, by L. G. Moberly (Ward,
Lock; 7s. 6d. net). “Mr Cheniston did not
believe in religion.” That was the whole
trouble. It caused his wife, Nora, to leave
him for Father Stanton’s Anglican Mission,
and involved him in arguments about mis-
sionaries and kindred subjects, in which he
invariably got worsted with his son Sandy,
who had a disconcerting way of talking in
a low, firm voice while “his unflinching
eyes met his father’s squarely.” You can
do nothing with a lad like that but whack
him, and Mr. Cheniston was essentially a
weakling. Next his daughter Betty cleared
out, and, being irreligious (“Church always
bored me stiff”), took digs in Darely Man-
sions, of which the less said the better. Provi-
dentially the badgered parent wandered into
the church of Brother Francis one day and
was converted, after which he resumed his
family- life on a satisfactory basis. It is
really a sermon in novel form, and much
brighter and more uplifting than most of the
pulpit discourses this critic has sat through.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
John L.: Returning “Goat” with regret,
and only because the cold-store is fu11.... Bank C.:
You’re wrong. We’ve known “Grazier” as a successful
sheepman for many years... .H.A.D.: The
could papea the entire premises with similar verses
on the sum# soul-weariness theme.—K.A.: Just one
arresting line: “I have but one enemy, blast her
hazel eyes!” R.G.L.: The abrupt unrhymed refrain
would wreck all the ears in the country and
blight the wheat crops... .Spruce: “Willie’s Return”
is the best of them, but it, too, contains a prophecy.
.... Dee-wan-yee: Doesn’t hit the market here, but
you might place it.... Troy: You could have done
better with it. Try another... .J.M.: Swing but
not much sting... .8.A.J.: Poetic content slight, but
that should not prevent it from being a good song.
. ...M.S.K.: “The Park” is mostly waste spaces.
. ...8.5.: Four lines, which seem to prove that there
is joy everywhere if we can only see it: —
White tents gleaming, laughter shrilling;
Music thrilling; life of the young!
Mothers laughing, children screaming—
Oh, what Heaven we walk among!
.... Verbeille: If you could pack your remarks as
tight in the English as you do in the Scots
you’d be a winner G.E.J.: True enough; but
you’d need to get an original note into it to
make it good enough ... .C.D.R.: “The night I lost
my love I lost her.” The next item on the
programme will be the old favorite “Happy Man.’
.... Toby: Suffers from decline, after a lusty
beginning... .R.W.T.: Original motion and amend-
ment both cast out... .L.N.: Your wagtail doesn’t
shine as a narrator S.C.E.: You hit on rather
severe subjects Irad: Regret cannot find a place
for poem beginning “It was only an old Fire
Shovel”.... M.M.: Can’t accept “The Perfect
Woman.” Prefer ’em as they are..., John H.:
Metaphorical outbreaks like “The hidden vaults of
pulsing time” usually so blind the reader that it’s
impossible to write an answer... .R.P.: You’d need
to be more of a Skuthorpe than a Shakspeare to tame
that metre.... Bellerive : Continuing the Tasmanian
serial:—•
THE CATARACT GORGE.
From its lofty cliffs-
’Tis grand to survey
The rushing waters below
On a tranquil day.
With its winding paths,
Scrubs, ferns and flowers.
A favorite retreat
In the summer hours.
Of scenic resorts the
Most vast and sublime,
Is the Cataract Gorge
Of the Tasmanian clime.
(Next: “A Drive Around Queen’s Domain.”)
E.M.L.: Smiles in it, but the appeal’s limited.
.... Elsie: What, another rejuvenation item ? That
fellow Voronof must have got out again. .. .G.S.N.S.:
Address of your muse is Echo Point... .Col. E.: Why
write on such small paper? Aren’t there any used
stamps about? Agrilit: “Color-blind” has enough
wit in it to hint that you might do better
F.W.D.: Treatment all right, but you say so little.
R.R.: Cannot undertake to point out “obvious
defects” in paragraphs. To ascertain our “specific
requirements,” read what goes in. .. .P.0.M.C.:
“Ballade of a Spot and a Succulent Pie” hasn’t the
price of either in it.... Faceplate: No room for
“snout-waggling” kookaburras in this aviary....
Politicus: Too wordy... .Uncle Dan: You rhyme
laboriously... .S.D.: John Monash was born at Mel-
bourne on June 27, 1865, and educated at Scotch
College and Melbourne Uni R.R.P.: He might
have got into Paradise but he won’t get into this
paper... .A.M.A.C.: Try something fresh... .D.W.8.:
Gets nowhere... .E.M.8.: An unconvincing conver-
sion. .. .8.E.R.: Rather amusing, but not quite worth
the space P.W.8.: Weak plot T.A.W.: Has
interest, but lacks dramatic force.... M.C.: A story
of that nature has to be particularly well told to
save it from cheapness... .M.L.: No place for Andy
here... .F.A.: Good description, but says nothing
new... .A.M.C.: Just crude shockers. .. .Z.U.W.: Only
worth a par 1.W.: It’s not your best... .W.J.L.:
Same old hero gaoled on same old false charge....
U.R.: Try it on a daily W.S.: You, too
E.D.: The death struggle over the found treasure
has been done too often. .. .W.T.W.: A sentimental
dud W.M.8.L.: (1) to (4) Send it to an English
publisher; see list in “Aust. and N.Z. Writers’ and
Artists’ Year-Book.” Ask paper for permission to
reprint—it holds the copyright. (5) No, provided
agreement stipulated that it would be published at
publisher’s risk. Sign no other. Typing should
cost Is. 6d. to 2s. per 1000 words France M.:
Sorry to part with Reed. But he came on an
overfed market.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.H.: An M.C. who allowed those dancers on the
floor would have been hoofed off... .L.L.: Pity you
didn’t leave the paper as you found it —blank....
R.C.H.: Scores of others were ahead of you. .. . W.W.:
A man who can’t draw a bottle of beer will
never be an artist. .. . F.P.: Fancy we’ve met
person with sombrero before... .G.M.: You go
astray when you get away from straight
lines R.A.Y.: Your John Hops are runts....
N. J.: Girl looking into mirror is wrongly placed to
get that reflection... .F.G.: No market here for
colored head studies of flappers... .W.C.: Misses, but
not discreditably... .F. 8.; It haunts us yet... .
W.S.P.: What’s the emaciated person in the corner
doing ? Saying his prayers or fastening his bootlaces ?
. ...R.L.: You belong to the hit-and-miss school.
K.B.: So bad that they were cut dead by the
other inmates of the w.p.b W.C.S.: More like a
polecat than a ’possum C.T.: Too many acute
angles about lady’s anatomy K.M.H.: If it is a
first attempt, it is not bad E.D.: You say you
are loyal and yet you draw George V. in that
fashion! S.M.S.: Awful B.B.: Feeding it to
the silver-fish D.M.: A collection of shaky strokes.
... .P.A.8.: Ambition is about your only asset....
A.C.M.: That dubious joke was fathered by a seasick
passenger C.C.: A turn for the worse. .. .H.W.:
Fair drawing and tattered jest.


X
m
m
I
m
dr
««i§p«
m
m
..
I


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2681.
July 1, 1931.
PRIVATE HOOVER HOPS OVER.
THE DIGGER: “Private Hoover, of the American army, are you? Well, you’re a bit late again, Private Hoover. But good luck all the same, and bog in-we
chaps could do with a spell!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21b George Street. Sydney;
Box 25218 U ; ’Phone 87971.
\ ictoria : llb-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2 39 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
\Vestralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 bs.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.:
3 months, 7s.
, To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.:
b months, 15s. Id.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
THE DEADLY DOLE.
The dole is at best an anaesthetic; its only
right use is to cany us through a financial
crisis which would be needlessly painful and
perilous without it. Taken in any other
way it is as deadly as chloroform would
be if it were used improperly.
We adopted the dole from Britain and
accepted the British views regarding it. But
our conditions and those of Britain are very
different. Britain is a vast exporter of
manufactured products; and the markets
for these have shrunk in all cases and dis-
appeared in a few. Nothing that Britain
may do can quickly set those markets
on their feet again. The war directly
destroyed some; the smash in prices of
raw materials devastated others—in S.
America, for example, and in Australia,
Concurrently the U.S.A. made enormous
industrial progress. Thus Britain was faced
with a huge army of unemployed who hgd
lost their jobs almost wholly because their
country had lost its foreign business; and
because Britain was almost wholly power-
less to restore that business, not only was
the dole system adopted, but it came to be
regarded as inescapable until world-trade
improves and the foreign markets recover.
In Australia the prime cause of our distress,
is, not the failure of foreign markets to
absorb our manufactures, but the failure
of foreign markets to provide us with loans.
We had been living on those loans, too
many thousands *of us, instead of digging
out our own living from our own soil or
making our own factoiy requirements; now
we have to change over and do what
we should have been doing all along. For-
tunately our production of food and cloth-
ing has not reached anything like its limit.
There is room for our unemployed 300,000
and 10 times more to grow all they need
to eat and wear. To accept the dole as
a semi-permanent institution in Australia
because it has developed that way in Erig-
land is absurd.
To regard unemployment here as it has
come to be regarded there is both absurd
and outrageous. The position here is much
rnore like that of France, which, though
industrial, is also very largely agricultural.
Its very considerable foreign markets have
fallen away just as those of Britain have
done. But it has transferred its surplus
industrial population to agriculture—mostly
to the “small farms”—with the result that
I ranee has less than one-tenth the unem-
ployed of Britain, notwithstanding the
severe blow which the French tourist busi-
ness has received. The falling away in that
business alone would indeed probably
account for more than the whole 300,000 of
French unemployed.
Our position is much less involved, there-
fore, than that of Britain. Here we have
an almost self-contained country, great in
natural resources even if not so great as we
sometimes try to make ourselves think:
capable, at any rate, of supporting a very
much larger population than our present
six millions. It is for the moment all to
oui good that we were not a great ex-
poiter of manufactured goods. Our recovery
does not thus depend upon how foreign
markets may behave; it depends chiefly
upon ourselves and our own market. All
we have to do is to go out and support
ourselves. Admittedly the price of wheat
and wool and a few other things governs
the degree of our prosperity. But Aus-
tralia can live very well—better than almost
any other people in the world—even though
prices be at rock-bottom. As a matter of
fact, except so far as our foreign trade
is concerned, the state of the world’s mar-
kets does not matter two straws to us.
Oranges, for instance, could be ss. each or
os. a case, and it would not make any dif-
leience to Sydney in the present month.
It would still be able to buy the golden
fruit at “a bob a bucket,”
What, then, are we waiting for? Has
this deadly dole got hold of us? Have we
failed to recognise that at best it is a
drug whose only legitimate purpose is to
carry us on until we can do something for
ourselves, and that it is deeply obligatory
on us to get that something to do? Of
course we should be better off if wool were
£22 a bale and wheat ss. a bushel. We
should be able to get our foreign bills
paid with much less effort; we should have
a great deal more money in our pockets to
pay wages and other things. But the pro-
ductivity of the land and the fecundity of
the sheep and the pig and the common fowl
would not be affected in the smallest degree.
Whether we put these 300,000 unemployed
°1 ours to work or not we have to pay
out foreign debt. Those who are employed
are not only paying that debt and support-
ing themselves; they are supporting 300,000
and their dependants— probably
900,000 in all. In England it might be
necessary to shake the head and say that
it will have to be done until the foreign
markets can be recovered; here it is only
necessary for the unemployed to produce
enough for their own maintenance and the
maintenance of those who minister to them.
And the means of production are here, in
land which is producing either nothing or
far less than it might.
Last week The Bulletin made an appeal
to Australia to re-employ 100,000 men, and
to make the re-employment simultaneous
or thereabout, so that the effect of the
tresh flow of money might be more
apparent. It was admitted that there are
difficulties in the way. But they are almost
entirely difficulties of organisation. The
question of wages will, of course, arise
instantly. On that only one observation need
be made. The dole will not last long. In
effect it means that those who are in work
ba\ g to maintain thosG who are out of
work; and the time will inevitably come
when those who are carrying the burden
will tell those who are unemployed to get
work and support themselves. Thus far
the brass-hats of the Trades Hall have
succeeded in bluffing veiy many workers
into the belief that it is far better for
hundreds of thousands to be out of work
than for wages to be reduced. But wages
are reduced in the most effective way if
° n j~^ P°P u lation are unemployed,
and have to be maintained by the two-
thirds.
There is room for honest doubt whether
wages, if cut, would recover on conditions
otherwise becoming normal. Still, there
is the experience of the past to help us.
After the financial crisis of the ’nineties
wages crashed: men saw that there was
work to be done if they would do it, and
did it. But thereafter there was a
steady wage-recovery; the most persistent
and violent efforts made to reduce wages
occurred before the crisis and not after.
After it, wages and conditions gradually
improved until they reached the standard
which we have Just had to abandon. The
day when low wages can be paid when
high wages are earned is passed. The
world led in this by ffs economists, realises
that high wages help progress far more
than high dividends; employers know, too,
that the most successful of their group
generally pay the highest wages. The fear
that there will be a permanent reduction
because it may be necessary for the
unemployed to take now what they can
bargain for may therefore be dismissed
unhesitatingly.
LANG’S GOODS STANDARD.
Lang s Faithful Few are still using public
funds to spread the Plan. The first and
second points are, they say, well. on the
way: point 1 declared there was to be no
further payment of interest to Britain until
Britain agreed to treat Australia as America
had treated Britain; point 2, that inter-
est on all debts in Australia, public and
private, must be reduced to 3 per cent. To
point 3 they say that more attention
must now be paid. As re-stated, it runs:
That the existing system of currency be altered
fiom that of a nominal gold standard to a system
more suited to modern conditions, preferably the
goods standard.
So far from being something specially
designed to meet “modem conditions,” the
goods standard is at least 150 years old;
after being buried, it has been several times
dug up by currency cranks and adopted by
politicians who know that the best way
to get the crowd’s ear is to denounce some-
body or something. And in this matter the
thing to be denounced is a specially good
subject for the purpose. A preacher of the
gospel according to St. Lang said the other
day:—
The financial interests can manipulate this [gold]
currency as they wish, and the people have no oppor-
tunity of detecting that manipulation apart from
expei iencing its awful results in widespread depres-
sion and unemployment.
In short, it opens up magnificent oppor-
tunities for raking the “financial interests”
fore and aft.
Now, we can. all admit that there is some-
thing shockingly amiss with our currency
system. It is outrageously wrong that a
sum of our money which would purchase a
certain quantity of the chief commodities
of the world a few years ago should be
capable of purchasing double that quantity
to-day. Variations in the price of one com-
modity or of a dozen commodities are
likely enough: seasonal differences or the
development of some process or plant
would account for that. But when these
huge waves occur in the general price of
commodities, it is reasonable to say that it
is not the commodities that are at fault—
it is our standard. Instead of being rigid)
it is elastic. And the consequence is that,
some people’s debts are'in effect doubled,
while at other times other people’s posses-
sions are in effect halved.
But that does not mean that gold is at
fault—that it is the wrong basis for a cur-
rency. It may be that the wrong use is
made of the gold. And least of all does it
say that a goods standard would serve the
purpose better. This goods standard has
been explained this way:—
The grower would be paid in notes, issued against,
say, his sugar. These notes would be cancelled if
and when the sugar was bought for home or foreign
consumption. The notes would meanwhile circulate
in the community, being an addition to the currency.
Two hundred thousand tons of sugar at £2O a ton
would add £4,000,000 to the note issue. Sugar
will keep, and there would be no occasion for haste
in selling it. If prices are guaranteed for a number
of Australian primary commodities, the first to be
exported will be those of which the oversea price
most nearly reaches the price ruling in Australia.
The others will remain in the country as a solid
backing for the note issue, until the world price
rises, or until, in spite of the loss on the exchange,
they must be exported to pay for purchase abroad
or to settle debts.
“The others will remain in the country
as a solid backing for the note issue.”
During the past four years lead, zinc, copper
and silver have lost more than half their
value. As they were run from the smelters,
these metals, under the goods-standard
currency system, would be exchanged for
currency notes. As the world-prices have
been falling quickly the metals would not
be marketed: they would remain behind
to be “a solid backing for the note issue.”
The goods which would be sold abroad
would thus be those which depreciated least;
those which depreciated most would remain
to back our note issue. Nothing on earth
could sustain the value of such a currency.
If it were specially designed to collapse it
could not be designed better.
E. C. Fairchild sums up the whole matter
admirably in his “Labor and the Industrial
Revolution”—a textbook very sympathetic
to reform:—
Failure to appreciate the essential and funda-
mental quality of money led to many wild proposals
for alterations in the currency from 1797 onwards.
Foremost among these was Thomas Attwood’s plan
for elasticity in the medium of circulation.... He
proposed that the banks should issue paper money
equal to the value of all goods produced, but not
yet in the consumers’ hands. The productive power
of the nation would then become the basis of its
currency, and not a precious metal.
And he proceeds to discuss it:—
Under Attwood's plan supply would still have
been determined by competition without the least
restriction. A currency based on production affords
no guarantees for the wide or equitable distribution
of purchasing power. With such a currency, there-
fore, as under the present system, under-consumption
would recur. The paper money based on unsaleable
goods would be deficient in purchasing power, or
worthless. It would cease to be money.
It is obvious that Lang swallowed this
goods standard without knowing the first
things about it. But he did know the
poverty of the people; and he traded on
that poverty to make attacks on the gold
standard, knowing that the public could be
easily persuaded that the “great financial
interests” were in some way connected with
it. The Bulletin never has been fond of
the gold standard in its present shape.
This paper believes that the misuse of the
world’s gold stocks is largely responsible
for the waves of unemployment and distress
that sweep around the world. But what
hope of reform is there when the matter is
dealt with not in a spirit of earnest inquiry
but with the obvious purpose of adding to
class bitterness and consolidating the class
vote?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Communism Comes to Sydney.
When J. T. Lang raised the unemployment
tax from threepence to a shilling, an account-
ant pointed out that Federal and State taxes
on N.S.W. incomes had reached 14s. 6d. in
the pound. Even in Page’s time personal-
exertion income exceeding £7600 and prop-
erty income exceeding £6500 were taxed ss.
in the pound Federal, “with 8 per cent,
added,” and ss. in the pound State, in
respect of the excess; and there has been a
flock of additions since, -among them the
Federal super tax of 7-1 per cent, on property
income introduced during the Lyons Trea-
surership. Discussing that impost, Marks,
the member for Wentworth, mentioned that
the Sydney estate in which he is interested
was paying 16s. 6d. in the pound of its
rents in rates and taxes.
Within the past fortnight a heap of fresh
exactions has been announced. As a result
of the Premiers’ decisions at Melbourne,
Federal rates of income tax are to
be shoved up once more. The N. S. Wales
child-endowment tax is to be doubled, mak-
ing it £2 in the £lOO of wages and salaries
paid—this without any lowering of the basic
wage, which has been substantially re-
duced in ■ States which do not go in for
child endowment. Special imposts are to
be clapped on owners of motor-’buses,
motor-trucks and service cars to punish
them for being owners of motor-’buses,
motor-trucks and service cars. And on
Friday, without warning, the wrecker of
the N. S. Wales Government Savings Bank
brought in what he called the Emergency
Income Tax Management Act, 1931, em-
powering him to seize ss. in the pound of
weekly incomes of £lO and upwards, and
ss. in the pound of company and other
incomes exceeding £520. The ordinary
State income tax, which starts at 7d. in
the pound and rises to 55., and, of course,
the Federal income tax are additional.
The alleged object of this “emergency”
measure is to relieve unemployment, but
it would deliver such a blow to industry
that the number of unemployed, estimated
by Lang’s own statistician at 115,000 at the
end of April, would be doubled in a few
weeks. The real object is apparently to
wipe out the middle class after the Russian
fashion, with legalised robbery substituted
for the weapons of the Cheka.
There was much talk in Sydney at the
week-end of what the Leg. Council would
do and what the State Governor might do.
It is equally pertinent to inquire what
action the Commonwealth Government pro-
poses to take. Obviously, if Lang’s raid
succeeds, either before or after a general
election, the victims, or most of them,
will be unable to pay their Federal taxes;
and the Commonwealth Government,
already gravely embarrassed by the N.S.W.
Government’s interest swindle, will be
additionally hampered in its task of main-
taining the national solvency at home and
abroad. Further, the claim that a
piratical State Government may grab 25
per cent., 50 per cent, or even 100 per
cent, of the income of its citizens any time
it chooses to do so cannot be accepted with-
out disaster to the Federal union. (As we
show elsewhere, Lang’s tax might exceed
100 per cent, on portion of the salary-
earner’s income.) The threatened citizens
of N. S. Wales are also citizens of the
Commonwealth, and are entitled to its
protection. In protecting them from robbery
disguised as taxation, the Commonwealth
will protect itself.
But what can the Federal Government
do? The Constitution does not expressly
provide for such an emergency as has
arisen, but it does provide in section 109 a
means whereby the citizens of N. S. Wales
may be saved from being ruined by Lang
and his gang. Section 109 says: “When a
law of a State is inconsistent with a law
of the Commonwealth, the latter shall pre-
vail, and the former shall, to the extent of
the inconsistency, be invalid,” and, of
course, it applies to taxation laws as well
as others. Hence to such a measure as
Lang’s bill one reply is available. The
Commonwealth Government might pass a
law imposing a 100 per cent, tax on all
incomes in excess of £2OO. That would make
waste paper of any such Act, and the Com-
monwealth Government might then pro-
ceed in friendly negotiation with five of
the State Governments (the mad-dog con-
cern to be excluded) to frame and provide
for the collection of one income tax de-
signed for all necessary purposes, relief
of unemployment included.
♦
The Communists and the Crown.
There still remains one point for the
Governor of N. S. Wales to consider. What
would the King do if there were strong evi-
dence that, behind the back of the people
and without their authority, his Ministers
were working for the overthrow of the
present system of government and for the
establishment of a Soviet Republic? If
his Ministers said, “Whatever our advice,
you must accept it because we are your
Ministers,” would not his Majesty reply:
“If the people are behind you, I must
accept your advice. I must do it then, not
because you are my Ministers, but because
you represent the people. The fact that
you are where you are is prima jacie evi-
dence that you do represent the people;
but in a matter involving changes of such
overwhelming importance, I must have more
than prima jacie evidence. Grave doubts
have been raised in my mind, and you must
resolve them by a direct appeal to your
masters. As'the sovereign guardian of the
rights of the people, this is demanded of
me.”
There was no suggestion of Communist
leanings in Lang’s campaign last year. On
the contrary, his party was alleged to be
at enmity with the Communists. Yet there
is not the faintest shadow of a doubt that
we are moving with startling rapidity
towards the Soviet State. There is scarcely
one action of the Government since it
reached office which does not fit into the
Communist plan for setting up the so-called
proletarian authority. Instructions have
been issued by the Bolshevik headquarters
for “the class war,” and there is not, one
thing of the smallest consequence done by
this Government which is not in accord-
ance with those instructions. This may be a
procession of astounding coincidences; but
a Governor charged with tremendous re-
sponsibilities is surely not entitled to regard
them as mere coincidences beyond all ques-
tion, and take no steps to preserve the
Empire from disruption.
For this is not only a matter of preserv-
ing democratic government from the forces
which threaten it: it is a matter of preserv-
ing Imperial unity also. A Soviet State
under the Crown is an impossible thing.
The Communist aim everywhere is' a
“republic of the workers.” More and more it
preaches that to bring this about there is
no need of a bloody revolution. The person
who waits for the guns to start firing before
he realises that the revolution is upon us
is a dangerous fool. The British connec-
tion may be broken before so much as a
nose bleeds.
And if the people so desire it, no doubt
it should. But it would be an outrage upon
every principle of democratic government if
we were to be committed to such a thing
without a direct appeal to the people. That
is the point for his Excellency’s considera-
tion. Is he satisfied that the Government
has a mandate for all it is doing? Is he
satisfied that its drift is not towards the
Communist State? If he has doubts, then
he must have doubts whether the Empire
is not being undermined under his very
nose. For, as we have seen, a Communist
Government under the Crown is a physical
impossibility—a contradiction in terms.


Henry Ford and Wages.
Henry Ford has published a third book,
elaborating, among other things, his theory
that high wages mean high purchasing
power, and that the manufacturer is there-
fore better served by high than by low
wages. In his own works the average hour-
rates increased from Is. in July, 1919,
to 4s. 2d. in January and February, 1930.
Yet, “to-day,” he says, “it costs us less than
half as much to make a finely and accu-
rately machined piece of material than it
did in 1910”; and he looks forward to a
further upward movement in wages and a
downward movement in costs.
It was inevitable that this should be
seized upon by those who are fighting
against any wage cuts in Australia and
Maoriland; and perhaps it was inevitable,
also, that the rest of what Henry I ora
says should be neglected. Yet if we are to
accept the. great American manufacturer as
a guide we must take his whole story
and no.t merely fragments of it.
“The wages we pay,” he says, “are
based not on the cost of living but on
the value of production” ; and The Bulle-
tin has said a hundred times that this must
be so—“there is no other basis for wages,
he asserts. “A high wage,” he says else-
where, “is as destructive as a high price.
If wages are too high for the price that
can be got for the product, then they must
come down. There were, accordingly, cuts
in the Ford works in 1915 and 1916—“ the
average dropped several cents.” And again
in 1928 and other years—in 1928 the aver-
age hourly rate decreased five cents. Costs
must be regulated by the value of the
production—that is to say, by what it is
possible to get for the product.
And that is the beginning and the end
of the whole matter. Henry Ford’s main
factory is in the U.S.A.; and the bulk
of the output of the American factory is
consumed in America. At home the Ameri-
can can put his theories into practice: he
can create the buying power by increasing
the spending power. Outside America he
cannot do it to any extent worth mention-
ing; and that is just what is the matter
with us. We can put up the prices of our
sugar and flour .and butter and eggs in
Australia; but we are powerless to do it
outside Australia, where the chief markets
for our staples lie. If in those markets the
value of our production falls, “the wages
we pay” must be “based not on the cost of
living, but on the value of production—
there is no other basis.”
So far from Henry Ford’s argument and
experience being against wage cuts in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, they thus point to
these calamities as inescapable. There are
four things to do in such an event: (1)
to reduce the costs of government and
distribution, and thus reduce the cost of
living; (2) to improve machinery and
practice, and by saying waste also reduce
the cost of production, enabling wages to
be gradually lifted; (3) to create a demand
for goods, for where there is a demand there
will be greater effort to supply the demand;
and (4) to increase home production and
therefore the home market, over whose
prices we can exercise some control.
4
Getting the Poison Out.
Politicians have been complaining of “the
new and dangerous spirit of hostility to
politicians,” the inference being that it rep-
resents hostility to the State. Actually,
it is one of the most encouraging signs of
the times. Parliaments rise and fall in
the world’s esteem according as they attract
good or bad Parliamentarians. They are
subject to periodical attacks of self-poison-
ing, in the course of which they absorb
worse and worse elements, and when things
become intolerable they are purified—
always from without. The House of
Commons which so edified Voltaire had
degenerated by the beginning of the nine-
teenth century into “a body of 513 gentle-
men elected by about 500,000 persons, mostly
bought.” The Reform Act (1832) gave it a
new lease of life, and during the Disraeli-
Gladstone era, and afterwards, everyone
spoke well of it, and it attracted some of
the best brains and characters in Britain.
Presently the party system and machine
politics began to discredit it. Some years
ago, when the sale of honors had become
a scandal —when rich men were buying seats
in the Lords at fixed prices, in the form
of contributions to party funds, as openly
as their predecessors bought and sold rotten
boroughs—the “Nation” wrote:—
Labor does not agitate in the House of Commons
now for the simple reason that it is unnatural to
expect attention there. A speech by Mr. Smillie
in the constituencies, backed by the threat of a
strike, will command attention from the Prime
Minister where a speech by Mr. Hartshorn in the
House of Commons will merely secure the oblivion
of two lines of neat summary in the next day’s
“Times.” The Prime Minister does not trouble to
attend the House because the real decisions are
not taken there.
N. S. Wales has long suffered from a similar
trouble, and the Commonwealth and the
other States have not wholly escaped it.
It must be upwards of 15 years since
anything said in the Assembly in Sydney
has seriously affected the course of govern-
ment. During the war practically every-
thing from the censoring of a newspaper
to the internment of an alleged undesirable
was settled by dictators in departments.
After the Armistice the machines asserted
themselves. Nationalism took over Labor’s
caucus system with Hughes, Holman and
the rest, and began pre-selecting, rewarding
supporters with jobs, re-endorsements, etc.,
and declaring its critics bogus in traditional
Trades Hall style. Decent and intelligent
electors lost interest in politics. Naturally
more and more degraded types went in for
politics, and the tone of the Assembly got
steadily lower.
It was all very well while so much bor-
rowed money was pouring in that fortunes
could be made in spite of the handicaps
placed on commerce and industry by
political bribes, in the shape of short hours,
sky-high wages and thousands of rules and
regulations designed to bring back good,
fast workers to the same marks as bad, slow
ones. Now thousands are realising that we
never could afford the incompetent and
sometimes corrupt legislators we had been
taking for granted for so many years, and
that if they aren’t got rid of ruin will come
upon everybody. Criticism of politicians
• —the ones who are chiefly to blame for
our present mess—is an inevitable feature
of the movement. But there is nothing
malign about it. All it means is that the
State is trying to get the poison out of its
political system.
♦
Noxious Weeds, Some with Legs.
America has adopted a policy with regard to
its out-of-works which Australia might do
worse than follow. The slump in the
United States has resulted in a vast army
of unemployed. Many of them are out-
landers by birth, and these are being given
the opportunity of voluntarily returning to
their own lands and friends, America bear-
ing the cost. Only those who have entered
during the past three years are eligible.
Under American law compulsory deporta-
tion may be ordered for those who are
considered likely to become a . “public
charge,” and it is forbidden for one born
overseas who is deported in this fashion
to ever return to America. There is no
such ban on the individual who takes
advantage of voluntary deportation.
It is a shameful thing to have to admit it,
but it might be a good thing if our labor
market could be thinned out by a similar
system, which applies, by the way, even
to naturalised citizens. It would be even
better if the American system of deporting
anyone from overseas who is likely to
become a “public charge” were adopted
here. By such an agency the horde which
hangs on the flanks of Labor politics and
is always ripe for
sedition, riot and
general lawlessness
could be swept out
of this long-suffer-
ing country. Legis-
lation to that effect
would contain a
clause declaring an
individual from
overseas who had
become a danger
or offence to the
community a
“public charge,”
even if his income
ran into four
figures. This is the
procedure adopted
in America. In
Australia, where
more than one
State has legisla-
tion whereby an
animal may be
proclaimed a
noxious weed, there
should be no diffi-
culties in this
direction.
• ♦
Commercialising
Great Literature.
“Magnet” (who
stands very high
among Australian
students of litera-
ture) registers a
protest:—
Writing as one who
believes that in the
cinema, rightly used,
we have a powerful
factor in education, I
would like to record
my protest against an
aspect of it that
threatens to relegate
much good literature
to the limbo of for-
gotten greatness.
Amongst the trea-
sured memories of
books I have read is
the greatest whale
story ever written —
Melv i 11 e’s “Moby
Dick.” “Moby Dick”
and Walt Whit-
man’s “Leaves of
Grass” are, 1 think,
the outstanding pin-
nacles of American
letters. But Melville’s
classic, like most great
literature, is not for
the consumer of literary
dope. It is not even
merely a whale story
—rather it is the Great
Adventure of Life —
life in all its dimen-
sions—a crowded page
in which the narrative
of the grim sea mon-
ster and his relentless
hunter are sometimes
merged in elemental
issues that make whales
and men seem small
things. “Moby Dick”
is a book to study. It
is a sea of thought that is well worth exhaustive
fishing for its many pearls.
And the picture? There is a scene in the old
church at Nantucket. There are two appearances
of a whale —and . consequent attack by the whalers.
Beyond these the whole thing is a falsification
the original. Melville didn’t rely for readers on the
sex note, there is no love story in the book, and that
is why, . in my opinion, the picture is so wanton.
Why take a great book, which is also an unsuitable
book, for the basis of a stupid picture ? What boy,
for instance (and it is essentially a boy’s book
even if the boy happens to be man-size), will trouble
to make the real acquaintance of “Moby Dick
after seeing such a picture?
Melville of the book is an influence we cannot
afford to lose. His three books, “Moby Dick,”
“Typee” and “Ornoo,” seemed just about coming into
their own again after a period of undeserved neglect,
then through some malignant whim of human
perversity comes this futile picture, flaunting its
stolen letter of marque, “Moby Dick,” in large
letters on our city hoardings.
Surely in Australia there is a sufficient number
ready and willing to unite in a solid protest against
this desecration of the good, the beautiful, the
true, in the works of dead authors? The drift has
been going on for too long already, but something
might be done to atone for past remissness., even now.
«
This Very Ordinary Land.
Griffith Taylor, formerly Professor of
Geography at Sydney and now at Chicago,
has written another book, about the natural
resources of Australia, which is an enlarge-
ment of the remark he left behind him
when leaving. He then gave his opinion that
Australia, as a producer: of raw materials,
was calculated to support a population of
about 15,000,000. This, of course, said noth-
ing of its ’ possibilities as a manufacturing
country, which are more a matter of in-
genuity and industry than of natural
resources. Our colored brother Binghi, who
lived wholly' on natural resources, ex-
pressed even more forcibly his opinion that
Nature hadn’t made it much of a place, for
he supplied it with a population of one
colored inhabitant to 12 square miles, so
far as the official estimates go.
It is difficult to say how many people
acquired a dislike to Griffith Taylor over
his remark. The importing interest in
all its ramifications was as mad, in a polite
way, as a moist hen. Taylor’s estimate
looked like an attempt to beguile the Aus-
tralian into secondary industries, whereas
his sacred Freetrade duty was to import
manufactured goods through the great firm
of Shoddy, Devilsdust and Co., and pay for
them out of our alleged superabundance of
natural products. To say that this is a
rather barren country and short of super-
abundance of natural products amounte
to blasphemy. There was bitterness, also,
among those who claim that Australia is so
bogged with milk and honey that it can
pay the highest wages ever heard of for
the shortest working hours on record, and
maintain a horde of trade-union secretaries
and agitators, all aspiring to Parliament.
The statement that Australia is by nature
a very ordinary place, naturally fitted to
pay very ordinary wages and quite incap-
able of accommodating anything extra in the
way of parasites, is never received in a
friendly spirit. .
Professor Taylor leans to the idea that the
people ought to concentrate more on the
better one-third than they have done. At
the same time there is no reason to blither
against the enterprise that would complete
a national w r ork like the South-to-North
railway. Desert Australia badly needs rail-
ways to connect the good land at one side
with the good land at the other; to furnish
a short road for trade; and to give the
desert itself a chance to develop, for it
may have great mineral possibilities. But
it doesn’t want railways built with bor-
rowed money. They should be built with
our own money, and should be expected
only to meet working expenses and to give
the country a chance.
No wrong is done to Australia by saying
that the greater part of it is a dry, flat
land of very little interest. Most great
swindles are done by “writing up ’ assets and
misrepresentation of values. Australia has
had the misrepresentation habit to the limit.
The Honorable Australian.
Dear Bulletin, —Amid all the anxious
misgivings regarding our national honesty,
may I be permitted to contribute a simple
statement of fact? During the raising of
hundreds of millions of pounds’ worth of
Commonwealth war and peace loans, not
one single instance of peculation of the
smallest kind was ever cited against any
one of the hundreds of loan organisers and
workers (mostly returned soldiers) who
were under my direction from time to time.
I wonder if any other country involved in
the Great War can match this record?
Given a “fair spin,” the average Australian
is the most honorable man in the world.
—Yours etc., George M. Dash (formerly
Chief Organiser).
UNCLE HOOVER MAKES A DISCOVERY.
QUAKER HOOVER: “Yea, friends, I have mastered the strange paradox that unless I forgive thee thy
debts thou canst not pay me."


The Hated Middle Class
~ .^\ e ( pkject of the Communist party is to dispossess the
capitalist of all he has—to abolish private property.
The International party no longer aims at doing this by
revolution involving bloodshed. It has found a better way—a way
of doing it gradually through taxation and expropriation.
What progress with this plan is the Moscow party making in
Australia?
This the most important question before Australia to-day,
especially for all who hold any sort of private property at all, will
be discussed in
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
for July, to be on sale on Saturday.
From all newsagents, or direct from any “Bulletin” Office.
£36
£25
£2B
Diamond
Engagement
Rings
REPUTATION for quality for over 75
years stands behind each ring. They
are hand-made throughout; the gems used
are the famous* “Hardy” quality, whilst
the prices remain strictly competitive.
The rings illustrated have pure platinum
settings and represent their actual size.
We would be pleased to forward a
selection on approval, free of charge, to
any address in the Commonwealth.
sjdfsdfsdfsdf
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Laiig’s tax to assist the social revolution
was alleged to stop at ss. in the £; actually,
as introduced and passed by the Assembly,
it went past 20s. in the £. A person on
a salary of £lO a week is to pay 50s. a week ;
a person drawing £9 18s., or only 2s. less, is
to pay 365. a week. Therefore out of his
last 2s. the man on £lO a week pays 14s. —
the difference between 365. and 50s. As this
appalling Assembly passed the bill, it left
a £lO-a-week man with £7 10s., while the
man on £9 18s. a week got £8 25., or 12s.
more.
While Federal Ministers and members of
the Labor Caucus are railing against the
“great finanshul intrusts” and declaring
that their high rates (very rarely over 7
p.c.) are responsible for most of the people’s
distress, the Federal Government itself is
charging as much as 10 p.c. Thousands of
people find themselves unable to pay income
tax assessed on last year’s earnings, because
A rat had got there first.
this year s earnings don’t amount to as
much as the tax ; in such cases the depart-
ment grants an extension, and charges up
to 10 p.c. interest on the unpaid balance.
Presumably it is done by direction of the
Federal Government; anyway, it must be
done with Theodore’s sanction, and nobody
has had more to say than Theodore against
blood-suckers. Which shows what a large-
size hypocrite Theodore must be.
The last weekly bank return show’cd 15
millions of gold with the Note Issue Depart-
ment and 51 million notes out. Gold to
paper was then just under 30 p.c. When the
five millions are thrown to the wolves in
London there will be just 110 p.c., or maybe a
trifle less, as the note issue is still growing.
Whereon Theodore may cynically observe
that there are more ways of getting rid of
the cat that would kill the fiduciary rat
than by choking her with solid arguments.
That the financial plight of the Dominions
has moved even the flinty heart of Chan-
cellor Snowden is proved by the alacrity
with which he extended to them Hoover’s
war-debt-holiday proposal. Australia is
already temporarily relieved of sinking-fund
payments on its London war loans. Though
the Hoover plan involves relinquishing re-
parations payments from Germany, Snow-
den’s offer means additional relief to the
extent of about three and' a quarter millions.
Queensland will have to make up its mind
that it will never get another sugar agree-
ment like the one it has just managed to
pull off. Only two things saved it from
violent cuts this time: (1) Dread of putting
any more unemployed on the market; (2)
belief that, except in a few of the northern
districts, the actual farmer is not making
a fat thing and elsewhere is making a poor
thing. Of course labor has taken charge
of the industry; and labor had the luck that -
at the moment the agreement was signed
one Federal chief had no spine and the
other, having lost seven of his political lives,
was ready to clamber up any tree to save
the other two.
Vic. Premier Hogan’s political head is in
peril again; he has been ordered by the arro-
gant A.L.P. central executive to give “a
personal undertaking” by July 3 that he will
obey the September and April Labor con-
ferences and veto railway retrenchment until
the union bosses consent. He has also been
commanded, along with the other 34 Laborites
in both State Houses, to vote against the
economies provided for in the Premiers’-con-
fercnce plan, to which he and Jones, his
Works Minister, were parties. If Hogan and
Jones refuse, their “endorsement” as Labor-
ltes is to be withdrawn. McNamara, secre-
tary to the central executive, who has been
the medium of communication between the
A.L.P. and the Ministry, is now a Minister
himself. Perhaps Hogan will make him secre-
tary to the Cabinet so that he may write to
and answer himself.
So far as it doesn’t take anybody
out of a productive job the new
Two-up Department in N. S.
Wales won’t do any harm, though
it can’t do an atom of good; so
far as it keeps anybody out of a
productive job it is a curse and.no
blessing at all. What this country
needs is an enormous addition to
its producers, primary and second-
ary; wdiat it has been and still is
suffering from is the dreadful
horde of middlemen and parasites
of one sort and another, and the
Two-up Department merely adds
to the horde.
The Whiddon appointment vio-
lates a flock of “Labor principles.’’
Lang’s sweep-promoter is over the'
retiring age; he had a joh or its
equivalent; the Public Service
Board was ignored in the matter,
and no public servant was allowed
to apply. Further, Whiddon is to
get £l5OO a year, whereas Lang,
as a roaring exponent of “Labor
principles,” has set a limit of
£5OO. a year on Government
salaries. Five hundred a year for
the iChief Justice; fifteen hundred
a year for tbe manager of a lot-
tery !
One effect of the suspension of
rural awards in Queensland has
been a drift back to the country,
Brisbane alone having lost some
5000 of its population in this ’way
since the wage-fixers were called
off. Most of the emigrants
are young men who, despairing ,of find-
ing city jobs, have gone to the sta-
tions and farms as learners. Pay is not
high, but there is a living in it, and self-
respect. Nor are experienced farm-workers
hard to get on terms which farmers can
afford. As a result the price of'/primary
commodities has come down, helping the
general drop in the cost of living, now the
lowest in Australia.
The Bruce-Page Government could have
saved N. S. Wales from the menace of
Langs five-shillings-in-the-pound piracy if
it had used its opportunities aright. In
at least a score of articles The Bulletin
urged Bruce-Page to make income tax
exclusively a Commonwealth matter, leav-
ing death duties and land-value taxation to
the States. The thing could have been made
part of the arrangement for Federalising
the State debts; indeed, the people would
have voted it into the Constitution, along
with the State-debts agreement, had they
been assured that the one income tax would,
except in a national emergency, be reserved
for national-debt purposes. There are 12
“The N.S.W. public-service organisations are
denouncing the Whiddon appointment, the threatened
reduction of salaries to £500 p.a. and the special
tax of 5s. in the £. The Federal public-service
organisations—which also supported ‘Lang and
'Labor’—protest that the Federal cuts and the Lang
tax are a staggering combination.”
“What asses ice have been, brother!”
income taxes now, and outrage succeeds out-
rage, while all is chaos. People are being
robbed right and left, not only by extortion-
ate rates, but by such dishonest tricks as
the levying of N.S.W. unemployment tax on
Victorian income, already subject to Fed-
eral, Vic. State and Vic. unemployment
taxes; and the general insecurity is almost
as bad for business as the spoliation of the
moment. What a ’bus-misser Bruce-Page
was!
Stewart, of Victoria, made an all-round
contribution to. the debt-conversion debate in
the Reps. H'e denounced the cut in interest
rates as repudiation, and he might have
called it amputation without being far
wrong. Still the money isn’t there. Then
Stewart suggested that the present Parlia-
ment should extend its life for three
years, thus repudiating its obligation to
appeal to the electors when its term is up;
SPRUIKER JACK: “Roll up with your five-and-thrip-
pences, ladies and gents., and make a
fortune. Thrift’s out of date. The Savings
Bank depositors were thrifty, and see what
happened to them. Don’t save — gamble!”
he urged that a “state of emergency” should
be declared, though it exists whether it is
declared or not; he talked about a Federal
Convention and a three-year plan, and made
some uninteresting statements about galvan-
ised-iron being £5 too high owing to the
tariff. or something. But he left the real
question at. issue, said question being that
there was just about a fortnight in which
to avert insolvency by some arrangement
with our creditors.
It is alleged by Theodore (and Theo-
dorians are repeating the allegation all over
Australia) that the war has cost Australia
£744,162,409. He explains that it cost
£309,465,841 up to June, 1919, when there
was a war, and £434,696,56S from then to
June, 1930, when there wasn’t any war. And
if Australia doesn’t pay for its war, and
keeps charging it with interest for ever, also
with pensions as long as there is a pensioner
left, the nominal cost may be piled up and
faked till it amounts to more than the alleged
value of all the assets of the Commonwealth,
and advocates of collapse-at-any-price may
continue to ask and answer questions about
it for the term of their natural lives. Our
overwhelming present difficulty is the over-
seas interest bill; about 44 millions p.a. for
saving our country from conquest and an-
nexation, which is marvellously cheap, and
about 23 millions p.a. for peaceful, every-
day jobs, which is absurdly dear.
Inquiry received by this paper’s Service
Department
I have £l9OO in Commonwealth bonds, returning
me £2 3s. per week, my only means. I am border-
ing on 60 and unemployed, and cannot afford to
convert. You say that “everybody knows there is
a penalty waiting for those who do not convert.”
What form is this penalty likely to take? What
would you do if you were in my place?
Everywhere else the principle has been
adopted of making no cuts that would bring
a man’s income below subsistence level; but
here is a bondholder who is to be starved
because he is a bondholder—that is to say,
because at some time in the, past he has
made a sacrifice as a patriotic duty.
The N.S.W. Nationalists have had a con-
ference and “revised” what they are pleased
to call their “fighting platform.” This now
comprises loyalty to the Throne, encourage-
ment of primary industry, encouragement of
trade and private enterprise, reduction of
Government expenditure “with due regard
to the efficiency of the public service”
(“always remember, ladies, that the public
service controls a big vote”), amendment, of
the arbitration system, encouragement of co-
operation between employer and employee,
facilities for the purchase of homes (“through
the Government Savings Bank, Mrs. Gub-
bins, of course”), restoration of the finan-
cial stability of the railways, and law
reform. There, is no more fight in that
platform than there is in a jug of milk.
People are turning from these weak-kneed
Nats, to men like Bruxner and Missingham,
who do show fight. The iCbuntry-party vic-
tory in Upper Hunter was la'rg dy Bruxner’s
work, and Bruxner is being talked of as a
future Premier.
The Russian Five-year Plan apparently
promises well enough provided the populace
can be kept down, which is the condition
attached to many plans. News from Stock-
holm, which is almost near enough for the
groans and the shooting to be audible, is
about a rising of famished people in old
Petersburg, who looted a great Government
stock of provisions intended for export.
They were put down by the police after the
compulsory-kervice troops had shown they
couldn’t be depended on to shoot their
friends and relatives. “Glass-consciousness”
was probably the trouble. The Commis-
saries didn’t grow the food that was looted,
but everything produced belongs to the
State, and the Commissaries are the State
so long as they can hang on.
Australia’s latest railway curiosity is the
railway from Meringur to Morkalla, in the
Western Mallee. The timetable says “First
Thursday in every month.” Morkalla is
403 fniles from Melbourne, and is the most
remote township in Victoria. The luxury
was to have cost £49,500, but the depart-
ment thought better of it and cut out
£13.300.
The Soviet may hate Capitalism, but it
uses all Capitalism’s tricks. At the moment
Russian matches are being pushed in* several
European countries, and “Save the Labels!”
is the sloganski. For 50 you have a choice
of half a dozen articles of the “carved
wooden platter” order, and for 1500 a dinner
service for 12 persons—not Russian forced
forest-workers : one large bowl with 12 home-
made wooden spoons does them. Inciden-
tally, matches with the “U.S.S.R.” stamp
(“Union of the Socialist Soviets of Russia”)
were among the material delivered to certain
returning officers in the recent Vic. Leg.
Council elections.
The Seullin Government is strengthened
by the re-inclusion of Daly, the S. Aus.
lawyer, who with Anstey and Beasley was
dropped by Caucus when all Ministers had
to submit themselves for re-election. Daly is
an able debater and carried weight which his
successor in the leadership of the Senate lias
lacked. L. L. Cunningham, the other new
Minister, was to have been .Chairman of
Committees, but Dave McGrath flatly re-
fused to surrender the billet unless the
House, and not merely the party, should
require it. Cunningham is M.H.R. for
Gwydir (N.S.W.).
When there was a chance of throwing
more men out of work and on to the deadly
dole, Lang rushed in a bill to lop ss. in the
£ off all salaries and wages of £lO a week
and over, but he didn’t raise a . visible finger
to keep the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank open. On the contrary he did the
very things that would compel it to close.
Evidence piles higher and higher that Lang
is taking part in the “social revolution.”
either in conspiracy with Moscow or as an
independent Trotsky: and the unfortunate
workers who had a few pounds in the bank
“N.S.W. Leg. Council was ordered to pass-Lang’s
Emergency Taxation Bill in one sitting, the demand
being made before the bill had been gagged through
the Assembly.”
ENVOY: “Mr. Lang says ’ere’s a bill ter give
im control of the solar system, an’ it’s
gotter be passed by three sharp. Look
lively, now!”
may now realise what the “expropriation”
of private property means. The Commu-
nists are always careful to talk about “the
great financial interests” ; but it’s the poor
little savings-bank deposits that are liable
to be “expropriated” first —on the principle
that it’s much easier and safer to waylay
and rob a small kid than to stick up the
Bank of N. S. Wales.
The Federal Government is waiving for
a further 12 months the collection of pay-
ments on expropriated German properties.
in New Guinea, principal as well as interest.
Most of the plantations are held by returned
soldiers, who have been badly pinched by the
slump in the price of copra. This was some-
where about £lO per ton in London at last
advices, and the figure is not likely to im-
prove if production of whale oil continues
at the present rate.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBIE'S INKS"
“Jeames”: The Prince, at 37, seems no
nearer marriage than he was 10 years ago;
his bachelor brothers evidently aren’t marry-
ing men either, and the Duke of York,
after eight years of wedded life, hasn’t a
male heir. It is unprecedented in the history
of great British families. Every adult living
British duke, for example, has married and
started a family before he was 30; the
majority have done it within a year or so
of coming of age, and all but one (West-
minster) have heirs of their own begetting.
Even more remarkable than the British
princes’ avoidance of matrimony is the fact
that no one, even in the U.S.A., has accused
them of owning morganatic families.
THE CATCH OF THE YEAR.
“I believe Ethel has made a good match.”
“Oh, wonderful! Why, her fiance has got a job!”
labary”: Norfolk Island, despite its
sinister early, history, has always been con-
sidered by this generation an Arcadian spot
where there are no pubs and no police (or
need for any) and no money worth speaking
of the home of a happy family of 700
people, who grow bananas and a few
other odds and ends untainted by the corrupt-
ing influences of the outside world. Even the
antiquated lock-up is said to have had no
occupant this century and to have been eon-
verted into a seed store. Consequently it is
all the more distressing to read that last week
some miscreant broke into Government
House, rifled the Treasury—a safe containing
£5O0 —and got away with the money and
Administrator Bennett’s war medals, which
last he discarded in the road outside, evi-
dently regarding them as dangerous. The
next question that arises is whether the rob-
bery can be sheeted home to its perpetrator
without police, or detectives, or evening news-
papers, or means by which ill-gotten wealth
can be got rid of, except by merely planting
it in the ground. It is an interesting problem
for Norfolk Island. “Booze and the blowans
cop the lot” in most other places, but when
there are neither where are you to look?
sjs * * *
“F.1.A.T.” : I estimate from the newspaper
casualty-lists of the past four weeks that
motor-bikes (B. 24/6/’3l) have been involved
in at least 75 per cent, of the serious Saturday-
to-Monday smashes round Sydney. Those
are probably about the figures for the other
capitals. Yet cars outnumber bikes by four
to one ! No law will ever make motor-bikists
travel at a safe pace, but if riders were
forced to insure against third-party _ risks,
as a condition of being licensed, their vic-
tims would at least be able to collect com-
pensation. The present position is that
motor-bikists, being mere lads, as a rule, are
often unable to afford _ even the hospital
expenses of those they injure. The reform
should appeal to Labor Governments. Resi-
dents of industrial districts are the greatest
sufferers from reckless motor-biking, and a
big proportion are children. It was safer
to be a soldier during the war than it is
to be a child with no playground but the
streets in some of the Sydney suburbs that
motor-bikists traverse during every week-end.
* # * *
“Colonel Slick”: Sydney’s H'arbor Bridge
has had its nose put out of joint before it
has been opened for traffic. The Americans
have completed a structure across _the Hudson
River, at New- York, which licks creation.
It is of the suspension type, and the distance
between the piers on each shore is 3500 ft.,
a little over twice the span of the Dorman,
Long contraption. The American work is
250 ft. above the water as opposed to Sydney’s
I7oft. I haven’t seen any mention of it in
Sydney papers; Melbourne journals, on the
contrary, are giving it plenty of publicity.
* # * *
“Brick Court”: Rouse, the “blazing car”
murderer, whose trial provided England with
last year’s cause celebrc —a book has already
appeared about it —is probably the first man
on record who has gone to the gallows for
slaying a person whose name nobody knows,
and that from no motive the prosecution
could suggest. If he ever had the intention of
leaving the ashes of the deceased in the car to
be mistaken for his own, and thereby being
able to cast off his much-married and sex-
entangled identity, he abandoned it by mak-
ing no effort to disappear. These things
alone would have made the trial, or, rather,
the conviction, memorable: another feature
was the Judge’s remark about “what some
would call the cruel kindness of the
Law in allowing a prisoner to give evidence
on his own behalf.” This, of course, is only
a practice of recent years, and a doubtful
boon it has proved, in murder cases parti-
cularly. If a prisoner doesn’t elect to give
evidence on his own behalf he is prejudiced
to a certain extent thereby; if he does, he
may be assisting to put the noose round his
own neck. Rouse, in the opinion of those
best competent to judge, hanged himself.
He had a fairly plausible yarn, as long as
he left it to a third person to tell, but when
he went into the witness-box to be cross-
examined on it he was bowled out so fre-
quently that the doubts which the jury had
undoubtedly entertained up to then were
removed.
HIS MONUMENT.
“Jeames”: Lord Somers said to some Mel-
bourne pressmen the other day:—
I’ve never seen a Head-of-the-River race. One
reason for that is that I do not think it good that
so much publicity should be given to school sports.
In England the only such event given prominence is
the University boat race. Here, too much worship is
lavished on schoolboy sportsmen.
H'e is an Old Carthusian, which can be liis
only excuse for overlooking. the Eton and
Harrow cricket match. It is the sporting
event of the London season on the social
side, being more important in ways than
Ascot itself. The boys get as much publicity
in the newspapers, from the “Times” down-
wards, as Cup-tie stars—particularly those
in the running for ’Varsity, blues—and the
crowds at Lord’s are more impressive than
anything Melbourne can show during Head-
of-the-River week. There is only one reason
why England doesn’t stage head-of-the-river
races • the other schools wouldn’t have a
hope against Eton. English public schools,
barring Shrewsbury, Radley, Beaumont and
one or two more relatively minor ones, have
little time for rowing.
$ ❖ ❖ *
“X,N.0.”: My authority for statements
re the press gang (B. 17/6/’3l) was
Admiral Sir Cyprian Bridge, who 30 years
ago produced irrefutable evidence that over
98 per cent, of the personnel of the Navy
at the time of Trafalgar were volunteers,
and that even in those days men were more
often looking for ships than ships for men.
As for Marryat and others, Sir Cyprian
wrote: “Violent seizure and abduction lend
themselves to effective treatment in litera-
ture and art, and writers and painters did
not neglect what was so plainly suggested.
On one occasion the results of a “general
press” were so poor that the Admiralty
ordered an inquiry, and Sir Cyprian men-
tions that “Rear-Admiral Arthur Phillip,
the first Governor of N.S.W., was ordered
to make it.”
* * * *
“Comes” : It may be a mere side-issue, in
the argument about the desirability of having
war memorials to horses as well as men, but
when “R.A r .” objects to the practice on the
ground that horses must necessarily be “con-
scripts” in any war, and that mateship is
only possible among voluntary companions
(B. 24/6/’3l), he is taking a curious line.
The great majority of the men who fought in
the war were conscripts in precisely the same
sense; that is to say, they had to fight
whether they wanted to or not. Of course this
didn’t apply to Australians, but it did apply
to Germans, Frenchmen, Russians, Ameri-
cans, even Englishmen in the later stages,
and to most, if not all, of the smaller nations
engaged. Would anybody contend that there
was less mateship or brotherliood-in-arms
among those whom their countries required
to fight than those who went of their own
free will?
# * * *
“Strand”: I’d like to bet that the late
Lord Trent’s £2,000,000 estate won’t escape
British death duties by reason of his Jersey
domicile. Lady Houston, the eccentric widow
of the Liverpool multi-millionaire, fought
Somerset House on a similar issue for years,
and capitulated in the end. It pleased her
to claim that she had stumped up the best
part of a million sterling as what she called
“an act of grace,” but the truth is she had
no option. Jersey is creeping with tax-
dodgers (some of them absentee Australians,
by the way), but the catch in their way of
life is that they they are known to the
resentful taxing authorities in London and
Paris, and so have no real freedom of action.
A Jerseyite, for example, can’t safely put in
a season’s hunting in England, or rent a
moor in Scotland, or a house or flat on either
side of the Channel. One tried living aboard
a yacht on the English east coast during the
summer and making periodical visits to Lon-
don. He was left alone for several years
and then taxed for the whole period as a
British resident, which he was in law. An
American yachtsman suffered the same fate.
There is nothing the officials of the great
Strand institution enjoy more than to catch
these over-smart folk bending.
# * * *
“Nakhoda”: The so-called slave labor em-
ployed by the Soviet is no new thing in
Russia. When I crossed the Czarist empire
in 1914 I saw prison gangs engaged in every
form of industry, from loading logs on
Siberian rivers to making railways. Most
of the Siberian railway was rushed through
just before the Japanese war by fiorced and
prison labor; many of the convicts we .
political offenders. All that the Bolshe’- iks
have done is to intensify the system. At
the concentration camp at Solovetsky there
are 30,000 prisoners, many of them waiting
deportation; they are made to load foreign
vessels under guard. Mechanics, doctors,
engineers and accountants are sold to fac-
tories and municipalities. The factories even
trade this human merchandise amongst each
other. The Putilofif factory sold the ser-
vices of one of its prisoner engineers for
10,000 roubles per annum, and provincial
commissars are eager bidders for convicts
who are experts in agriculture.
* * * *
“Dog Barker”: A good many of the old
school of shellbacks will grumble at the
British ratification of the international con-
vention for safety at sea. This now requires
that the words “port” and “starboard” shall
relate to the direction in which the craft is
to be steered, and not to the movement of the
helm. There are thousands of pilots and
steersmen who will find it hard to forget
the tradition in which they were bred,
that the order given meant the alteration of
the ship’s course in the contrary direction to
the spoken word. It all dates back, of
course, to the tiller-steering days, when to
shove the stick to starboard meant that the
vessel would go to port. This idea persisted
even when the tiller gave place to the wheel,
with its crossed steering-ropes. Machine-
steering should have wiped it out long ago,
but both the British Navy and the Mercantile
Marine persisted. Now we have heard the
end of it, though more than one ship will be
put ashore before the new system has been
thoroughly imbibed.
* * * *
“Buzfuz”: “Harsh word, perjury,” Mr.
Perker told Mr. Pickwick; and a harsh
word it remains, best not employed if some-
thing less downright is available. In a
libel action heard at Sydney last week the
ground of action was that the defendant
in an electioneering speech had said of the
plaintiff : “This man committed perjury in
a court case against me.” The words
were admitted, but for the defence it was
pleaded that they were qualified by a later
remark in the same address: “If he objects
to the word ‘perjury’ I will break it down
and say that he told a pack of lies about
me.” Yet if a pack of lies told on oath
isn’t perjury, what is?
* * * *
“X.S.”: The Law needs to retain its wig
and gown. These attributes of majesty at
least give it the appearance of having reached
adulthood. The other day in Melbourne a
woman was charged with having lifted
articles of clothing from a shop coun-
ter. She pleaded that she had been drinking
and didn’t know what she was doing. The
prosecuting sergeant said it was her
150th conviction. The Bench looked as wise
as Solomon, and as a cure for her disease
gave her a month’s imprisonment.
TWO HEARTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lady, 27, tall, bridge-player, would like to meet
refined gentleman.”— “Argus” view mat. ad.
Here’s one who scorns the stereotyped con-
coction
Of charms one looks for in a mating calk
She merely mentions she can play at auction,
Is in the nimble twenties yet, and tall.
The one conviction that you can’t with-
stand
Is that she doesn’t overcall her hand.
She fain would cut for partners —and retain
one,
All other cutting in (and out) amid.
Among reflections that occur the main one
Is that it isn’t a pre-emptive bid
To keep competing husband-hunters mute
Who otherwise might indicate a suit.
Time was when adventitious aids to wooing
Were rugged clubs and palaeolithic spades ;
Now diamonds denote there’s something
doing,
And hearts, of course, count most of all
with maids.
She knows their pasteboard values at a
glance.
Yet each and all may serve her for romance.
Who’s for an unappropriated blessing,
A love with whom through endless rubs
to live,
Who knows the arts of ducking and finessing
And when a double is informative —
Though what she tells about herself, her lot
To duplicate, is obviously not?
And should he try “No trumps,” her destined
lover, .
A call which lack of preference imparts,
’Twill be her signal to emerge from cover
And take him, all demurely, into hearts.
Thpn, with his strength, a slam should crown
their play,
For she has length. She says so, anyway.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


. “Wong” ; Now is the winter of Melbourne’s
discontent, the Somerses having departed for
England. But one suburb at least will have
something to recall them by. Extract from
the “Williamstown Advertiser” (20/6/’3l) :
LORD SOMERS’S CAR FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Mr. , funeral director, lias purchased a
limousine car which was used officially by Lord
Somers as Governor of Victoria. With this addition
to the number of his mourning’ coaches, Mr.
will have the best-equipped fleet in Victoria.
* * * $
“P.X.”: Who knows?-—perhaps Herbert
Hoover got his idea of forgiving the world
some of its debts from a lesson he learned
on the goldfields in the early days. When
Coolgardie began to make a stir, Broken
Hill was feeling a little like the morning
after; and among those who packed up and
cleared out were a couple of hotelkeepers
who had learned all that the Barrier could
teach about the early days of a mining rush.
One of the things was never to lend money, not
even to their best customers —and their best
customers were liable to be broke any day.
So it was “I’m too good a friend of yours
to think of lending you a quid, Bill. But if a
quid of mine’s any good to you, take it, Bill
•—and forget it.” “If a man’s got so low
that lie’s no good to me anymore,” said
.Tack Elliott, one of the pair, “well, I lend
him a couple of bob —and that’s the last I’ll
ever see of the the angel.”
* * * *
“Lex”: Within the past ten days in Syd-
ney three big libel suits have been settled, and
the respondent in a moneyed divorce matter
has declined to defend. It represents a
A NEW ONE EVERY DAY.
“Well, have you patched up your quarrel with Bert?”
"We dont need to patch. Billy and I can make a new one every time we meet.”
stage which is reached eventually in every
great financial slump. When there is a boom
on people haven’t time to litigate; it pays
better to settle on any terms in reason arid
get back to selling land, building houses, and
in general making easy money on speculative
lines. Comes a period when land and other
values begin to slump, and money is less
plentiful. Money next becomes a thing
to be fought for to the last shilling. Settle-
ments are rare, and advocates—as distin-
guished from chamber lawyers—do well. The
third stage, which N. S. Wales is now enter-
ing on, if it hasn’t already reached it, finds
the capitalistic classes with hardly a finan-
cial feather to fly with, litigiously speak-
ing. They shiver at the thought of paying
a retainer of 100 guineas to a silk, with daily
refreshers for himself and a junior in propor-
tion, and are ready to agree to almost any
terms to escape the liability. Pity the poor
Australian lawyer! He is in the position
of an armaments firm in a European State
that is too hard-up to go on being militarist.
* iji
“Bob Sawyer” : The Brit-
ish Royal College of Sur-
geons is presenting its Aus-
tralasian equivalent with a
silver mace. What place a
mace occupies in modern
surgery it is hard to tell,
though there is a legend
that in mediaeval days it was
the custom to use a stout
club as an anaesthetic when
an operation on a powerful
patient was imperative. A
pity, while the Britons were
at it, they did not carry tra-
dition further, and add a
shaving-mug and a razor to
the othen implement, in
memory of the fact that the
original surgeons also plied
the trade of barber. There
is a touch of snobbery in the
injurious differentiation.
* * *
“James Pigg”: A story
comes from Camden
(N.S.W.) which anyone
with foxhounds will find
some difficulty in crediting.
A was running a
fox with a couple of hounds,
and coming to the top of a
ridge found that pursued and
pursuers had vanished,
though the country was open
for miles. There was a
wombat burrow close by,
but the entrance was so
small that there seemed no
chance of the hounds having
gone down it. A week later,
however, the owner decided
to dig out. the burrow, and
found his property, much
emaciated but still alive.
\\ hat became of the fox is
not stated. Somehow it re-
calls Munchausen’s yarn of
his greyhound bitch, who,
being heavy in pup, put up a
hare in the same condition as
herself. Arrived at the top
of a ridge, like the owner of
the Camden foxhounds, Mun-
chausen beheld the bitch
still chasing the hare, while five greyhound
puppies were also in hot pursuit of five
newly-born leverets.
* * * *
“Merris”: Ivingscote, Kangaroo Island,
claims to be the only spot in Australasia
where the village blacksmith performs the
marriage ceremony. He also officiates at
christenings and funerals, and is thus two
up on his colleague of Gretna Green.
So far. no elopements to Ivingscote have
been reported; a journey in the little
coastal boat might kill romance. But with
the improvernent of aerial transport, we may
presently read of a fugitive couple skimming
over the gleaming waters of the Gulf, pur-
sued by a heavy father in a light ’plane.
* * * *
“Lord Tomnoddy”; Mention of certain
Spanish titles, such as Count of the Second
of May (B. 24/6/’3l), is a reminder that
British patents of nobility largely rest nowa-
days upon abstractions almost as shadowy in
the matter of place-names. Originally the
monarch could give the lands away, or suffi-
cient of them to make the lordship a real
one; for centuries past the peer has been
allowed to choose his own title, whether he
has any proprietary interest in the place or
not. Mostly he hasn’t; sometimes it isn’t
even English. Nelson got The Nile as a peg
for his earldom; Kitchener annexed Khar-
toum; French utilised Ypres. More generally
something with an archaic flavor and a
picturesque sound is more in demand,
and, if it carries family associations, it
doesn t. matter how dim they are. I suppose
there is a limit in selection, or someone
would have been made Earl of London before
now, but the only occasion I can remember
when there was some public demur to the
choice of a title was when Lever, the soap-
boiler, elected to be known as Viscount of the
Western Isles. I rather fancy he had
acquired some of them, so that his claim
had more to support it than most peerages of
our time; the objection came because Lord of
the Isles was one of the Prince of Wales’s
THE SEWING WEEK.
ETTIE: ( displaying finished masterpiece ): “What do you think of that , Betty?”
BETTY: “Yes, dear—I had trouble with mine, too.”
numerous sub-titles. But the founder of Port
Sunlight (which would have furnished a far
more appropriate title) carried his point.
* * * :i:
“C. Ma”: Influence of the movies? A
small girl, aged seven, was taken to see a
boy who had had his adenoids removed
at the Melbourne Hospital. When she was
introduced into the ward she rushed up to
the cot, flung herself on her knees and cried,
“My God, Willie! What have they done
to you?”
* * *
“Lord Luvus”: The latest convenience in
Melbourne is a Lie Bureau. All you have
to do is to ring up and say you want the wife
advised that you have arrived safely at Dog’s
Elbow, that you are on the eve of putting
through an important piece of busi-
ness and that you will be unavoid-
ably detained until to-morrow or
the day after, or any date you like
to name. If the bureau hasn’t an
agent at the particular stagnant
township you have selected it will
probably recommend the nearest
one where it has a branch office.
Moreover it will continue to bom-
bard your home with reassuring
telegrams until you advise it to
suspend operations. The charges
are moderate, the chief disadvant-
age being that an absent-minded
person may forget to call the
bureau off before he returns to
domesticity. In this case telegrams
continuing to arrive from himself
and Dog’s Elbow may require con-
siderable explanation.
* s|: *
“Tweedle”: Cambridge, accord-
ing to a cable, has a pair of twin
brothers whose “oneness” is in-
teresting not only professors but
Harley-street specialists; physi-
cally and mentally alike, they are
exactly on the same mark. The
two won scholarships of the same
value at school, repeated the per-
formance after matriculating, and
have finished neck-and-neck as
gainers of first-class honors in both
parts of the Classical Tripos. It
seems a pity they are not athletes
as well, so that they could dead-
heat in desperately contested races
and clear the same height or dis-
tance in, jumps. In lawn-tennis
doubles, too, thinking alike as well
as playing equally well, there would
be great possibilities in them.
Later on, one supposes, the insepar-
ables will inevitably fall in love with the
same girl, unless they have the luck to
encounter another pair of twins.on the distaff
side.
* * # *
“Gratings”: Interesting to note that a
Queensland gaol-warder refused to flagellate
a youth who had deserved something of the
sort, on the ground that it was none of his
business. I am old enough to have known
men who served in the Navy when flogging
was a commonplace. Some of them were
lower-deck men, too, and none of them
thought of it as anything out of the ordinary.
In those days the boatswain’s mate usually
swung the cat—not the “thieves’ cat” with
knots on its whipcords, but the “Navy cat,”
with straight strings, an improvement on the
instrument of the old brutal days of which
of his last ship on tho China station in the
’sixties, I pointed to the counterfeit present-
ment of a huge p.-o. with a clean-shaven face
and a “Newgate frill” running from ear to
ear under his chin. “Ah,” said Douglas
reflectively, “that fellow swung the best ‘cat’
I ever saw.”
* * * *
“Haikwau”: I know’ one firm of common
carriers—-at least, I suppose you would call
them so—who charge individual passengers
for overweight (B. 17/6/’3l) —the chair-
coolies who convey you from Shanghai to the
hill resort of Mokanshan. Before climbing
aboard, all passengers have to step on the
scales. Lightweights are given three bearers,
and an extra one is added for every stone or
so, though I fancy there is some concession
for genuine outsizes; an 18-stone acquaint-
ance of mine had to. take only eight coolies.
The fares are, of course, in proportion, and if
anyone objects it is a stiff four-mile climb up
the mountain-side. Eighty per cent, of the
passengers carried to Mokanshan are mis-
sionaries, who do not usually run to flesh.
Perhaps this is the reason why the maximum
is so low, it being based on “fair average
missionary.”
* * * *
“Centurion”: General Pershing has added
to whatever fame he may have acquired as a
soldier by writing a book. In it he states that
the morale of the British and French was so
low when he reached the front that he did his
best to keep his own troops away from them
as much as possible. He also claims that the
Americans were responsible for breaking the
li'indenburg line and virtually ending the
war. The only Americans present in the big
break-through were two divisions given to
Monash. In his “Australian Victories in
France in 1918,” Monash, though polite,
makes no bones about the failure of these
troops to carry out instructions, a failure
which resulted in heavy losses to the Aus-
tralians, who had to do the work all over
again. The chapter in Monasli’s book,
“America Joins In,” is recommended to Per-
shing for his soul’s good.
* * :■{
“W.”: A Bulletin contributor, in an
appreciation (B. 17/6/’3l) of the i late
George Merivale, of Sydney, referred to him
as a typical product of “the much-abused
English public-school system.” The system
puts at least one mark on its products. They
may be saints or crooks, fools or sinners,
social stars or washouts and nobodies,
but they “don’t advertise.” Take your
own community, wherever it may be.
Consider its leading citizens, after ruling
out Governors, Premiers and similar inevit-
able dwellers in the limelight. Some will
be constantly in the news—posing Im-
press photographers, being interviewed by
reporters, and being written up, with their
wives, families, houses, furniture, cars, etc.,
in the gossip columns. They are there
because they want to be. Others, equally
important, will hardly be heard of by the
general public, having had the noisomeness
Of self-advertisement kicked and thrashed into
them at school. It isn’t put forward as
a necessarily admirable trait, only as a dis-
tinguishing one. All the same, every first-
class man I have known who has risen from
the ranks has had it, which suggests that
Nature has the same idea of what a gentle-
man should be as a public school.
Marryat has written so much. One of
the gentlest little men I ever met was
Commander Douglas, who, after lie left the
Navy, was in charge of the notorious “Black
Police” during the Palmer rush, and later
became Chief-Inspector of Police for Queens-
land. Standing with him one day before a
photograph of the officers and petty-officers
THE FRIEND IN NEED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a gentle Communist.
A post his shoulder-prop;
He had a picket in his fist
And mentioned that he seldom missed
A chance to bash a cop.
“But in the end,” I hazarded,
“You’re always put to rout,
And nights in cells are things to dread,
And prison planks a cheerless bed,
Is that not so?” “Dunno,” he said;
“Jock Garden bails us out.”
At Nats, and Labs, in bulk he shot
A vast, expansive curse;
For Bavin he’d opprobrium hot
And doubted whether Lang was not
Considerably worse.
“Show me a landlord’s head to break,
A bailiff’s jowl to clout,”
He challenged, “and I’ll undertake
A thorough job of both to make,
if I'm pinched for conscience sake,
Why, Jock will bail me out.
“It’s not, of course, his only job.
As you may be aware.
He runs the Trades and Labor mob,
An alderman and, s’welp me bob!
r They say he’ll soon be mayor.
Y'et whatsoever business press
Be sure lie’ll never flout
The hurry-call, the SOS
From sturdy comrades in distress.
We never count on long duress
With Jock to bail us out.”
“They say you gave him many a qualm
That stormy night,” I said.
“He fled from you in wild alarm.”
"All bunk,” he growled, “we wouldn’t harm
A hair upon his head.
What base ingratitude ’twould mean
To tap him on the snout!
What mugs and chumps we should have been
When watch-house walls we’re scarce
between
Ere. leaping from his limousine,
Jock Garden bails us out!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


18ct. Gold and platinum.
£ l4/14/-
j rMm
18ct. Gold and platinum.
£l5/15/-
SPECIAL VALUE
DIAMOND RINGS
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd., the
oldest jewellery house in
Sydney, offer the highest
quality diamond rings at most
reasonable prices. Only the
most carefully-chosen blue-
white diamonds are used—set
in hand-finished settings of
specially assayed gold and
platinum.
Prices are still at pre-tariff
levels.
18ct. Gold and platinum.
£l5/15/-
Vh
XBct. Gold and platinum.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.’’
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
sdfhsdfsdf
Always Order
SCHWEPPES
DRY
GINGER
ALE
The Standard o f
Comparison through-
out the World.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES AND IMITATIONS.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some July birthdays
High Commissioner Ryrie, 66, and Prof. Heinze
(Melb.), 37, on Ist; ex-W.A. Governor Campion, 61,
Theo. Fink (Melb. “Herald”), 76, Federal Minister
Blakeley, 45, and musician Frederick Bevan (Elder
Conservatorium, Adel.), 75, on 3rd; Speck’s Premier
McPhee, 53, and 0. S. Daley (Canberra), 44, on
4th; Justice Piper (S. Aus.), 66, and Rev. K. J. F.
Bickersteth, M.C. (headmaster of St. Peter’s, Adel.),
46, on sth; S. A.us. Governor Alexander Hore-Ruthven,
59, and Vic.’s Chief Justice Irvine, 73, on 6th;
pianist-composer Percy Grainger, 49, on Bth; Justice
Milner Stephen (N.S.W.), 61, and Canon Poole
(Adel.), 86, on 9th; Brig.-Gen. L. C. Wilson (Q.),
60, on 11th; Brig.-Gen. R. b. Leane (S. Aus. Police
Commissioner), 53, on 12th; Federal Minister Forde,
41, Prof. Harold Davies, Mus. Doe. (Adel.), 64, C.
H. Bertie (Syd.), 56, May Holman, M.L.A. (W.A.),
and Percival Serle (Melb.), 60, on 18th; Vice-
Admiral W. R. Creswell (Vie.), 79, on 20th; E.
F. Mitchell, K.C. (Melb.), 76, E. S. Cunningham
(Melb. “Argus”), 72, and “Smiler” Hales, 71, on
21st; journalist Ben Hoare (formerly of», Melb.
“Age”), 89, on 22nd; Bishop Moyes (Armidale), 47,
on 25th; Justice Crisp (Speck), 57, and W. R.
Alexander (Vic. Parlt.), 60, on 27th; Randolph
Bedford, 63, on 28th; and Sydney’s eminent surgeon
Alexander MacCormick, 75, on 31st.
Arthur George Holroyd, who has passed on
in Melbourne at 66, was the metallurgist who
discovered telluride on the Golden Mile. He
further pointed out that the methods in use
were not capable of treating the ore so as to
recover all the gold. The first crushing
failures of some of the big mines were thus
shown to have been due to the presence of
telluride, and when the Victorian’s find was
made known in London the market responded
very quickly. Holroyd, whose father was a
Vic. Judge, didn’t personally benefit by his
discovery.
When the Sydney tramcar sweeps past your
accustomed stopping-place, and you wake
up to the fact that most places are optional
stops and that to halt your bolting jugger-
naut you should have pulled the string, you
curse S. A. Maddocks for a moment —and
then, calming down, wonder if perhaps the
blighter isn’t right. Maddocks is Commis-
sioner of Road Transport in N.S.W. these
days, and a product of Fort-street (Sydney)
School. He commenced wage-earning in an
accountant’s office, later shifted to a job in
a York-street warehouse, and when just
out of his teens entered the N.S.W. public
service. There he climbed quickly and be-
came secretary of the Police Department. A
keen motorist and a student of traffic prob-
lems, he was a natural selection for the job
of executive member of the Traffic Advisory
Committee appointed three years ago. The
S. A. MADDOCKS, Commissioner of
Road Transport (N.S.W.) .
Bavin Government later sent him off to study
transport and traffic administration in
Europe and America, and his compendious
report—furnished after a breathless five-
month triii —earned the cheers of overseas
experts. He was given his present job less
than a year ago. and has been busy ever
since regulating ’bus services and improving
those of the trams; and the reduction of
haulage exes, by chopping out most of the
compulsory stops where there was usually
nothing to .stop for is one of liis early re-
forms. Always a busy man, he has still
found time to graduate in law.
F. S. Boyce, K.C., who led the Opposition
in the Leg. Council to Lang’s latest tax
for the creation of unemployment, is _ a
son of the octogenarian cleriw and social
worker who died the other day. He is a nrst-
class advocate, of the forceful, clear-headed
type, a conscientious worker and the pos-
sessor of the granite face and tall, rangy
figure of a back-blocks Australian. 1 hough
a city-dweller, he was born 59 years ago
near Rockley (N.S.W.), and he gets a lot
of country work. Boyce is one of the most
variously-educated men in public life, having
been at The King’s School, Sydney Grammar,
Rugby (England) and Sydney Uni.; lie has
F. S. BOYCE, leader of Opposition in
N.S.W. Council.
toiled hard all his life for church, charitable
and educational objects, and he is <?ne ot
the State’s leading Masons. He got his first
big chance in politics as a Minister without
portfolio in the Fuller Government (1922-
25).
“C.Q.”: The popularity of the last Eng-
lish State Governor Victoria is likely to
have for a long time was largely due to his
simplicity. Lord Somers never did or said
anything that would have surprised one it
it had been done or said by a normal, whole-
some public schoolboy. He had a passion
for the outdoor life, and was most at home
amongst Boy Scouts or when subjected to
practical jokes at the Power Camp he estab-
lished for industrial and grammar school
boys at Balnarring. On one occasion a lead-
ing comedian arrived at the camp in the
guise of an English lord, and took in the
Governor along with the rest. Somers
enjoyed nothing better than blackening him-
self helping to put bush-fires out.
E. P. Simpson, who died after a long ill-
ness on Sunday, came of leading N. S. Wales
families on both sides; one uncle was Jus-
tice G. B. Simpson, and another was Jack
Want, K.C. He had many of the qualities
of greatness, though owing to liis hatred of
anything savoring of self-advertisement the
general public heard little of him. Simpson
was the chief power behind Nationalism when
the party meant a good deal more to Aus-
tralia than it does now. As a negotiator
and diplomat he was unrivalled. Not only
was he phenomenally shrewd and the pos-
sessor of a most winning manner, but every-
body trusted him. He was a _ notable all-
round sportsman and athlete in his prime
—a champion golfer and runner, one of the
best amateur billiard-players in his State,
and a yachtsman. He was largely instru-
mental in founding Royal Sydney and Leura
golf clubs, was captain of Royal Sydney for
nearly 30 years and was thrice amateur golf-
ing champion of N.S.W. He had been a
member of the Union Club for just on half a
century. His only son Telford is a partner
in Minter, Simpson and Co., the family firm ;
a daughter is Helen Simpson, the novelist.
Passed out in England, Aloysius
(“Trader”) Horn, who rose from obscurity
to comparative eminence and exchanged doss-
houses for high-class hotels at the advanced
age of 75 by aid of a facile pen and a vivid,
unconventional literary style. The ancient
was peddling gridirons and rat-traps about
Johannesburg when one of his customers,
Mrs. Ethelreda Lewis, discerned best-selling
possibilities in his tales of adventures (real
or alleged) in equatorial Africa, and started
him on the upward track. How much of
what he wrote was true is never likely to be
ascertained, but there was enough of fascina-
tion in his stories to float him to fame and
fortune, and he made the best of it in the
years that were left to him. Horn, who
visited Sydney a couple of years ago, is
believed to have been born in Glasgow about
1843 and to have started life under the name
of Smith.
The recent Methodist Conference in Dune-
din (M.L.) received the resignation from the
ministry of Dr. Albert Charles Lawry, after
half a century’s service. His father was
the Rev. Henry Lawry, the first Australian-
born Methodist parson, and his grandfather
the Rev. Walter Lawry, a colleague of the
Rev. Samuel Leigh, first Wesleyan missionary
to Australia, who officiated in Australia’s
oldest church, that on the H'awkesbury.
Norman de Horne Rowland, who died in
Sydney last week at 56, was born in
Ipswich, a town which has produced distin-
guished Queensland lawyers, including the
late Justices Chubb and Real, and the pre-
sent Chief Justice Blair. Rowland was
called to the State Bar, and later to that of
N.S.W., where he made a reputation as a
District Court Crown Prosecutor, and acted
on several occasions as a District Court
Judge A lawyer of the sound and scholarly
type, he was for some time during the war
Deputy Advocate-General at Rabaul.
Harold Gatty, who with another aviator
casually hopped from New York to Berlin
the other day, is a 28-year-old Tasmanian.
He was born at Campbelltown, learnt navi-
gation at Jervis Bay Naval College, was
second mate on Patrick and Union line
steamers, and four years ago landed the same
job on a millionaire’s yacht in America. He
then became interested in aviation, and
acquired the rights of a device for navigat-
ing flying-machines which helped Lindbergh
in his Atlantic flight. With an American
naval officer Gatty went to Japan and made
several attempts to fly across to the Ameri-
can continent, but never got further than
some of the Japanese islands. His father
is clerk of the Richmond (Tas.) Council.
Mrs, Trudgian, Katherine Curnow before
marriage, w’ho died in Launceston last week,
aged 73, saw something of the wiping out of
the Kellys at Glenrowan in 1880. She and her
brother Tom, a schoolmaster, were bailed up
by the gang when driving past Glenrowan
railway station and detained until nightfall.
Then Ned escorted them back to the school-
house, and on leaving remarked to the brother,
“Now don’t you talk in your sleep.” When the
whistle of the pilot engine of the police train
was heard, Katherine took off a red cloth
shawl she was wearing and handed it, with
a lighted candle, to Tom to furnish a danger
signal. Tom got a cut of £550 from the
Government reward of £BOOO for his share
in the capture, whilst Katherine had requests
from curio-hunters in all parts for snips of
the red shawl.
Max Meldrum returned to Melbourne the
other day after an absence of six years, the
last four spent painting and teaching in
Paris. Some of his pupils were Americans,
who joined him after listening to the lec-
tures lie delivered on a tour of the U.S.A.
Meldrum found art in Paris in a state of con-
MAX MELDRUM.
fusion, with dealers rigging the market in the
interests of painters who are not so much
artists as conjurers. He considers art in
Australia much healthier, with greater hopes
of real development : fie found at least half
a dozen of liis old Melbourne school flourish-
ing artistically, if not financially.
Hubert Dulhunty, who died last week at
Bathurst, aged 82, was the last of six’
brothers well known in the central districts
of N.S.W. Their father was the original
settler at Dubbo; their grandfather was
surgeon-superintendent of the convict ship
Sesostris, which arrived in Sydney in 1826.
Dr. M. H. WATT, Director-General of
Public Health (Maoriland).
Customs Minister Forde may be opposed
next election by Lieut.-Colonel P. Currie,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., C. de G. Currie is 48, a
native of Nambour, where his parents were
among the pioneers of the district. Except
for three years when he was assistant at
Ellis Ivadoorie College, Hongkong, most of
his working life has been spent in Queensland
schools; he is head teacher at Allenstown
State school, Rockhampton.
•T. H. Granger, dead in Brisbane at 78, was
a pioneer of art in the Northern State.. Born
in Worcestershire, he arrived in Brisbane
in 1886, and two years later helped to found
the Queensland Art Society. He was
for some fime an instructor in art at the
Brisbane Technical College, and did some
work as a scene-painter and a black-and-
white artist; in other years he was a buyer
for Finney, Isles and Co., for whom he several
times visited England and the Continent.
Several of his seascapes hang in the Queens-
land National Gallery.
F. W. Barlow, who is retiring from the
Queensland Hand Court Bench, having
reached the age limit, came to Australia
in infancy; his dad was to become one of
the best-known pastoralists in Queensland
and N.S.W. and the youngster’s early years
were spent at Warkon station on the
Balonne River. Educated at the King’s
School, Parramatta, he entered the Queens-
land civil service in IS7B, and served the
Lands Department in all corners of the State
until his appointment to the Land Court in
1928. His mother conducted the Grange school
at Toowoomba, a famous college for Queens-
land girls, and was a notable figure in the
social life of the Darling Downs until her
death at 94 two years ago.
Exit from the S. Aus. public service, to
spend his retirement in rose-growing and
bowls, Harry Blinman, latterly head of the
Chief Secretary’s Department. He is more
widely known as one of the founders of the
Cricket Board of Control, after having been
probably the best batsman who never got into
a Test match. His departmental successor
is A. L. Read, with a long record of service
on conferences and boards.
Passed on in S. Aus., at 72, Sam Deed,
who was a bullock-driver on the Barrier
before Broken Hill existed; he put in 40
years there in boom times and bad times.
From 1913 on he was check inspector for
the A.M.A. Right at the .finish, in so-called
retirement, he was hunting for the gold-
mine that the State badly needs. In leisure
time he was a persistent writer of prose and
thoughtful verse.
The new president of S.A. Winegrowers’
Association, succeeding Tom Hardy, is Sam
Tolley, of the T.S.T. firm, whose initials
are familiar all over Australia. He has been
in the business ever since leaving St. Peter’s
school, except for an interlude in France,
where he gained a commission and the M.C.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand
t —Dividends Writ-
Govt.’s Ord. ten
March, Profits. Divs. 13& p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921 i. 827,256 112,500 300,000 50,000 1,886,276
1922.. 682,043 112,500 300,000 50,000 2,105,819
1923.. 553,638 112,500 300,000 2,246,957
Profit on sale of securities, £ 148,112 2,395,069
inner reserves disclosed . . 184,465 2,579,534
Premiums on new shares 3,454 2,582,95 S
1924.. 735,832 137,436 349,871 2,831,513
1925. . 819,286 162,500 400.000 3,088,299
Premiums on new shares £2311 3,090,610
Inner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO 3,190,610
1926.. 912,160 212,464 499,928 3,390,378
Profit on sale of securities, £143,420 3,533,798
Mortgage
Shares.
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Divs. 14i p.c. 71 p.c.
1927.. 847,671 231,250 537,500 3,064 3,609,655
Profit on sale of securities, £73,511 3,683,166
Premiums on new shares, £825 .. 3,683,991
1928.. 841,878 231,250 537,500 24,594 3,732,525
Inner reserves disclosed, £212,005.. 3,944,530
1929.. 912,954 231,250 537,500 46,143 4,042,591
1930.. 948,534 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,173,157
1931.. 845,814 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,201,002
The slump has hit Maoriland, like all other
countries dependent upon the export of
primary produce. But its Government has
not brought chaos to its national finances
and its credit, and its people are more
evenly distributed between town and coun-
try than Australia’s, so it is feeling, the
effects less acutely.
The slip in the value of the Dominion’s ex-
ports last year was £10,638,000. This, together
with the slackness in internal trade, is re-
flected in the B.N.Z.’s accounts in a shrink-
age of £823.361 in London funds (£5,920,138
at March 31), a net contraction of £1,572,924
in deposits, of £594,109 in the bills item
and of £74,992 in the note issue. To meet
the withdrawals, etc., liquids were tapped
for £1,164,13S net, and the book value of
advances was reduced by £709,375.
Thus exchange and other earnings were
affected. Still, after providing for contin-
gencies, the board put gross profits only
£4114 short of the previous year’s, despite
the shrinkage in the value of securities
and the ITawkes Bay disaster—apparently
any loss in connection with the latter lias
been adjusted from inner reserves :
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1920 .. £1,376,838 £430,109 £456,484
1922 .. 1,809,256 528,174 577,840
1924 . . 1,709,289 562,596 389,661
1926 .. 1,888,309 600,068 354,882 "
1927 .. 1,830,881 611,270 350,740
1928 . . 1,816,869 630,453 323,339
1929 . . 1,916,600 648,581 333,866
1930 . . 2,013,526 684,745 359,048
1931 . . 2,009,412 696,515 445,884
’Less provision for contingencies.
Exes, were £14,770 heavier, although a
couple’ of branches and some agencies were
closed. The spring of £86,836 in rates and
taxes was due mainly to the lift from 3 p.c.
to 4£ p.c. in the note tax; thus there was
a shrinkage of £102,720 in the admitted net
result. After attending to the pref. and
mortgage-share requirements, there was
enough to show 15 p.c. on the £3,750.000 of
ord. capital as against 17.8, 16.9, 15.6, 16.4,
18.7 and 21.9 p.c. back to 1925. Still, the
board again sent out the 1 p.c. bonus with
the 13J p.c. div. It suggests that there is
more wheat in the ear than the eye can
see. Indeed the £861,513, including £365,043
profit on the sale of securities, brought from
hiding during the last eight years, leaves no
doubt on that point.
In the Long-term Mortgage Department,
where loans are made on the amortisation
principle at 6 p.c. with currencies up to
36 years, an extra £142,947 was put out
ast year, raising total advances to £.1,267,809.
To do this and rub out a loan of £319,187
from ordinary banking funds, £505,100 of
fresh debenture stock was issued, making
£607,050 in all. The £703,125 of share
capital in this department is owned by the
Government.
The trade movements, already explained,
and the bank’s own strength show up in the
next comparison :
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
192.0.. £5,765,337 £3,708,305 £37,661,611
1922.. 4,294,230 3,713,175 28,676,603
1924.. 4,072,10! 3,368,426 30,501,720
1926.. 4,444,392 3,721,791 31,121,288
1927.. 3,765,593 4,016,265 29,664,024
1928.. 3,797,080 3,985,303 30,339,033
1929.. 4,290,793 4,313,722 33,939,651
1930.. 3,754,949 4,943,050 33,897,609
1931.. 3,679,957 4,348,941 32,324,685
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1920.. £33,120,009 £19,431,848 £361,108
1922.. 18,250,158 24,783,560 296,473
1924.. 26.011,290 20,128,292. 352,474
1926.. 26,482,848 22,662,697 484,103
1927.. 23.897,114 23,924,980 520,877
1928 . . 25,892,025 22,748,219 533,597
1929.. 30,233,353 22,841,453 549,383
1930.. 23,792,798 29,109,588 579,871
1931.. 22,628,660 28,400,213 600,759
The reduction in the note issue is due to
the contraction in spending. According to
the last quarterly returns about 58 p.c. of
the deposits are interest bearing as against
49 p.c. two years ago. Liquids amounted
to 5(1 p.c. of the liabilities to the public at
March 31; the bank was then holding
£3 9s. Bd. of outside money, excluding
debentures, for every pound of its own funds.
It is a very strong position.
The pound ords., when they can be had on
the Australian market, fetch around 555.
Allowing for the final div., the return at that
figure is 5.1 p.c. so long as the T4i p.c. dis-
tribution continues; and there is no certainty
about that. The growth in interest-bearing
deposits, lighter exchange and other earnings,
mounting taxation and the shrinkage in the
value of securities are likely to yet further
affect the figures. At the moment, however,
hopes are that President Hoover’s proposal
Of a war-debts moratorium will, if adopted,
stop the drift in world price-levels.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
Reserves
(Assets
Dividends. include
r * ", £BO,OOO
“A” “B” of
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Good-
A-’ar., Profits. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, will)
£ £ £ £ £ £
1920.. 45,808 10,500 19,200 496 15,612 55,564
1921.. 38,125 10,500 19,200 600 7,825 63,389
1922.. 41.020 10,500 19,200 600 10,720 74,109
Inner reserves disclosed . . 80,000 154,109
1923.. 46,016 10,500 19,200 600 15,716 169,825
1924.. 50,469 10,500 19,200 1050 19,719 189,544
1925.. 51,488 10,500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,907
1926.. 50,453 10,500 19,200 1500 19,253 229,160
1927.. 49,443 10,500 19,200 1800 17,943 247,103
1928.. 49,617 10,500 19,200 1800 18,117 265,220
10 p.c.
1929.. 49,887 10,500 24,000 1800 13,587 278,807
1930.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
8 p.c.
1931.. 39,717 10,500 19,200 2100 7,917 299,265
This old-established dry-goods house, which
specialises in “Eastern” lines, and whose
ramifications extend throughout the Com-
monwealth, is so well set-up financially and
otherwise that it was able to exhibit enough
profit last year to pay the pref. and “B”
share divs., and then show 11.3 p.c. on the
£240,000 of ord. capital as against 15.2, 15.6,
15.5, 15.2 and 16 p.c. back to 1926. But
the outlook is very clouded, so the 2 p.c.
bonus sent out in ’29 and ’3O was dropped,
leaving the div. at 8 p.c.
For more than a decade the management
has been steadily building up the cash re-
sources, the declared aim being to provide
for extension of the undertaking when oppor-
tunity offers. Thus at the close of last
accounts Government securities alone had
a book value of £146,370, which was £3400
less than at the previous balance. The cash
holding, largely fixed deposits, was strength-
ened by £25,605 during the term, raising
it to £88,727. Assuming that the. two com-
bined netted 5 p.c. (£11,754). which would
be almost sufficient to cover the year’s pref.
and “B” share requirements, the net return
from ordinary trading was £10,234 lighter
at £27,963. Still, that was enough to pay
the pref. and “B” divs. and show 6.4 p.c.
on ord. capital.
Dry-goods never have carried much in
the way of profit margins; still, they are
mainly non-luxury lines, and for that very
reason hold fairly well in lean times. But
the swing of prices and turnover is down-
wards, demand is being restricted to the
cheaper lines, and the plight of many store-
keepers, especially in the country, has com-
plicated the debts problem, while costs
remain stubborn and the burden of taxation
becomes more oppressive. Also the proposed
conversion of public securities into 4 per
cents., and the drop of 1 p.c. in deposit
rates, can be expected to affect the return
from investments.
However, the co. is well equipped both for
a struggle and to take advantage of any
trading opportunity:—
1919. 1926. 1930. 1931.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital . . 398,268 415,000 420,000 430,000
Mortgages.. .. 35,733
Deposits .. .. 31,318
Overdraft . . . . 72,103
Sundry creditors.. 94,014 57,636 49,511 43,204
Freeholds.. .. 135,682 145,413 146,660 146,142
Plant, etc. .. 81,769 65,291 54,140 53,260
Leaseholds.. .. 400 —.—
.Stock . . . . 234,710 175,092 162,762 153,197
Sundry debtors . . 145,856 139,378 124,865 120,732
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc.. . 22,367 112,221 212,982 235,187
The low figure at which creditors (includ-
ing amounts in.suspense) appear suggests a
cash-purchase policy, whereby maximum dis-
counts are gained. The year’s spring in the
more or less liquid surplus (£465,912) was
£14,814.
On the market 28s. is offered for the ords.
as against 30s. a year ago. At the lower
figure the return is 5.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 30s. Bd. in net tan-
gibles. For the prefs., which are covered by £3
17s. 2d. in net tangibles, 225. is asked. At
that figure the return is 6.3 p.c.; last year’s
profit was over 34 times their annual re-
quirements.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
t Dividends N
5 p.c. To Re- Re-
Apl., Profits. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£> £ £ £, £,
1921 60,328 4325 10 p.c.= 35,423 20,580 140,488
1922 61,338 4325 10 „ „ 40,423 16,590 157,078
1923 59,752 4325 10 „ „ 40,423 15,004 172,082
1924 62,047 4325 10 „ „ 40,423 17,299 189,381
1925 65.121 4325 10 „ „ 40,423 20,373 209,754
1926 71,121 4325 10 „ ~ 50,423 16,373 226,127
1927 73,020 4325 10 „ „ 50,423 18,272 244,399
1928 77,020 4325 10 ~ „ 60,423 12,272 256,671
1929 77,120 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,372 269,043
1930 65,111 4325 10 ~ ~ 60,423 363 269,406
1931 39,172 4325 5J „ „ 39,069 103 269,509
The last two years have been full of troubles
for this old-established importer of paper
and printer’s requisites. Larger financing
of the printing trade, which was usually in
a hungry condition, helped greatly to swell
turnover during the decade to the close of
accounts in 1929. Since then the casualties
amongst small printers and stationers, and
the death of a number of Sydney newspapers,
and the precarious position of others in the
country, have caused sales to slump tremen-
dously, and, of course, made the question of
debtors’ balances a perplexing problem. Also
the position in the exchange market, reces-
sion in stock values, and growth of primage
and other taxes added to the difficulties.
Hence the board wrote last year’s profit
at little more than half the 1929 figure.
After extracting the small pref. require-
ments, there was enough to show 5.8 p.c.
on the £604,231 of ord. capital compared with
10, 12, 12. 13.6 and 13.2 p.c. back to 1926.
So the last three quarterly divs. were at the
rate of 5 p.c. p.a., making 5f p.c. for the
year.
The co. got its full share of the trade
available, and can be expected to continue
to do so. But there is nothing in the im-
mediate outlook to suggest a recovery of
earnings. The crushing taxation proposals
of the N. S. Wales Government threaten to
discourage savings and investment, reduce
spending, further burden production, cause
additional shrinkage in trade turnovers gen-
erally and impede the reduction of costs.
The transfer of an excessive amount of funds
from the wealth-producing activities of in-
dustry, where it creates employment, to un-
productive Government expenditure can
only aggravate our economic ills. The
greater the productivity in any field of enter-
prise, the lower will be the prices of the
products in that field, and ultimately the
higher the wages; the reduction of wages by
taxation stands athwart all this.
Still, the co. is very well equipped indeed
to weather a rough passage,. and to take imme-
diate advantage of any improvement in trad-
ing conditions, as the following comparison
of balance-sheet figures shows :
1920 1925. 1930 1931
Paid capital.. £390,740 £590,740 £690,740 £690,740
Liabilities .. 105,498 131,868 106,094 45,590
Freeholds .. 80,598 110,319 110,319 101,319
Stocks .. 219,940 153,680 216,163 167,889
Sundry debtors 202,957 419,474 456,252 356,612
Cash and in-
vestments . . 129,620 268,321 308,471 392,422
The doubtful item there is debtors’ balances,
which was reduced £99,640 during the year.
This, and a reduction of £48,274 in the stocks,
enabled £60,504 to be lopped off the debt,
and cash and investments to be further
strengthened by £83,951. The more or less
liquid surplus (£871,333) was only £3459
lighter than at the previous balance. The
investment item comprises Commonwealth
Government securities, £187,341; cash,
£107,820; public-body loans and shares in
other cos., £97,272. No hint is given as to
what extent, if any, the London subsidiary
contributes to the pool.
The market, doubtful of an early recovery
in earning capacity, prices the ords. at 16s.
9d. as against 275. a year ago. At the
lower figure the return is 6 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The backing is 28s. lid. in net
tangibles. The 5 p.c. cum. prefs. at 13s. 3d.
yield 74 p.c. They are covered by £ll 2s.
in net tangibles; last year’s profit was nine
times their annual requirements.
Provident Life (Maoriland)
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance ance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1920.. 33,688 5,759 6,185 21,744 107,875
1921.. 38,176 6,312 6,857 25,007 132,882
1922.. 42,075 7,296 7,643 27,136 160.018
1923.. 47,899 8,653 8,789 30,457 190,475
1924.. 53,195 11,675 9,233 32,287 222,762
Transferred to Industrial Branch, £3548.. 219,214
1925.. 58,583 11,294 10,380 36,909 256,123
1926.. 65,138 16,549 11,269 37,320 293,443
1927.. 70,031 19,147 12,580 38,304 331,747
1928.. 78,975 27,584 15,692 35,699 367,446
1929.. 87,475 27,821 16,883 ) ,» 4fl , 40 r, qoq
Trans, to Shareholders, £4278 ) dB,4yd 4Ud > ydy
1930.. 94,735 39,038 17,589 38,108 444,047
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
£> £> & £, £>
1920.. 82,062 19,782 37,246 1050 160,325
1921.. 90,512 23,300 39,074 1050 187,413
1922.. 99,103 28,224 40,957 1050 216,285
1923.. 108,816 36,745 44,264 1050 243,042
(7 p.c.)
1924.. 120,562 39,134 46,676 1470 276,324
Transferred from Ordinary and
Accident, £3548 .. .. 279,872
1925.. 128,044 28,750 51,150 1470 326,546
Written off, £636 .. .. 325,910
1926.. 137,552 36,518 55,004 1470 371,470
1927.. 148,937 33,267 63,511 1470 422,159
1928.. 163,773 45,069 69,320 1470 470,073
Transferred to
Shareholders.
1929.. 172,600 43,320 74,745 4937 519,671
1930.. 181,594 61,001 72,412 567,852
This little Dunedin-controlled office began
in 1903 ; five years later it gave its 1 friends
an opportunity to invest in ordinary poli-
cies. Though progress has been slow,
it has been along sound lines, and prospects
for both policy-holders and shareholders are
as satisfactory as can be expected in these
troubled times.
The combined surplus in the two depart-
ments grew from £6017 for the quinquennium
ended Dec., 1919, to £30,338 five years later,
and to £67,468 at the close of accounts in
1928, when bonuses on Ordinary policies—
60s. p.c. on whole of life —were double the
rate declared in 1923. Also, for the first
time, those in the Industrial department
were given a share in the profits. Of these
profits 90 p.c. in the Ordinary and 80 p.c.
in the Industrial department belong to
the policy-holders. The balance goes to
shareholders, who, for the last two years,
have received 12 p.c., 2 p.c. of it labelled
bonus.
About two-thirds of the business is gath-
ered in the Dominion, and the other third in
Australia. Last year’s income from all
sources (£276,329) sprang £16,253, of which
£12,241 was from premiums (£221,818) and
£4012 from interest, etc. (£54,511). Claims
(£100,039) were £28,898 heavier, due to a
larger crop of Industrial maturities. Still,
the £86,289 added to funds, raising them to
£1,011,899, was in excess of. bare require-
ments under policy contracts.
The slip in the amount of new Ordinary
business written was £12,570:
1923. 1928. 1929. 1930.
New Policies. . 1,104 1,427 1,281 1,138
Assuring .. £244,664 £356,874 £331,052 £318,482
First Premiums 5,612 7,965 7,697 7,453
Renewal pre- ,
miums .. 29,191 41,342 45,175 47,938
Disregarding consideration for annuities,
exes, took 23.7 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums as against 23.5, 23.2 and 20.8 p.c. in
the three preceding terms. The increase
was due to taxation.
The £699,916 of new cover put on the
books in the Industrial branch was only
£4324 short of the previous years’ record
figure. Here exes, made off with 48.2 p.c.
of the net premiums as against 51.9 p.c. in
1929. Circumstances hastened the introduc-
tion of the non-forfeiture system, to the
benefit of both policy-holders and the co.
Surplus interest provides most of the
profit. The office assumes that its funds will
earn 31 p.c.; actually they returned £5 16s.
3d. and £5 14s. lid. last year in the Ordi-
nary and Industrial branches respectively.
But the proposal to reduce the gross return
on Commonwealth Government securities by
221 P-c., by a wholesale conversion into 4
per cents., and generally to bring down in-
terest rates, will narrow these margins, and
may affect both bonuses and divs. Much
will depend upon the extent to which exes,
can be curbed.
Of a balance-sheet total of £1,048,255 at
Dec. 31 last, no less than £900.221 was in-
vested in Australian and Maoriland Govern-
ment and public-body securities. Mort-
gages and loans on policies figured at
£77,994; Farmer and Co.’s debentures,
£39,008; book debts, cash, etc., account for
the balance.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd.
Added Reserves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. nal).
£ £ £ £
1920.. 27,938 10 p.e. = 22,812 5,126 140,628
1921.. 8,009 U ~ „ 19,018 129,619
1922.. 11,844 6 „ „ 17,050 124,413
1923.. 29,606 7 „ ~ 20,326 9,280 133,693
Insurance reserve taken in . . 1,200 134,893
Reserves.
Goodwill written off, £40,000 .. 94,893
1924.. 33,896 8 p.c. = 23,651 10,245 105,138
1925.. 29,966 9 „ ~27,000 2,966 108,104
1926.. 30,172 8 ~ „ 24,000 6,172 114,276
1927.. 24,663 8 „ ~24,000 663 114,939
. 22,082 7 ~ „ 21,000 1,082 116,021
1929.. 23,159 7 „ 21,000 2,159 118,180
1930.. 22,806 7 ~ ~ 21,000 1,806 119,986
Loss.
1931.. 5,983 Nil 114,003
There has never been much in it for share-
holders. It took 18 years after the crash
of the ’nineties for the div. to get to 5| p.c.
Then the war provided new opportunities,
trade was opened up with Southern Asia,
and 10 p.c. was paid for the three years to
the close of accounts in 1920. For the next
decode the average was 7.4 p.c.; and visibly
there w T as little to spare.
Unable to pass increased costs on to the
consumer, the management recently made an
assault upon outgoings by a reorganisation
of manufacturing and distributing methods,
including electrification of the factory ; also
the ice-cream section was passed to a sub-
sidiary. But the slump got slumpier, the fall
in the price of silver affected the co.’s Asiatic
trade, and a sharp drop in turnover, the
contraction in prices, and stubbornness of
overhead generally resulted in a trading loss
of £5983 last year; so shareholders went
hungry. For the previous term the profit
was 7.6 p.c. on the £300,000 of capital com-
pared with 7.7, 7.3, 8.2, 10, 9.9 and 11.6
p.c. back to 1924.
Early in the last term a new subsidiary
was formed to handle de-hydrated vegetables
and fruits, and £10,996 was added to the
book value of shareholdings, as the follow-
ing comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:—•
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital . . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft .. 45,335 79,137 84,696 99,712
Mortgages, etc. 17,000 25,900 25,000 24,000
Other debts. . 48,405 49,562 39,936 37,163
Fixed assets.. 326,773 400,920 376,393 371,310
Shares in other
cos. . . 674 591 37,839 48,835
Stocks . . 108.211 97,847 85,768 58,530
Book debts, etc. 92,732 83,667 79,925 95,906
Cash .. .. 307 254 193 296
To do this and carry an extra £15,981 of
book debts, the board went to its bankers
for a further £15,016. and reduced the book
value of stocks by £27,238. Altogether the
financial position slipped £22,397 during the
twelvemonth, outside liabilities exceeding
the more or less liquids, excluding shares in
other cos., by £6143 at April 30.
Intimately associated with the co.’s pros-
pects is the question of the efficiency of the
plant and adequacy or otherwise of the
allowances for depreciation, but the board
gives no hint on these points. With the
trend of prices still downwards, trade more
competitive and the tax burden heavier, re-
sults will depend largely upon the extent to
which overhead and costs can be curbed.
There are 100,000 profs., 6 p.c. cumula-
tive, which advance with the ords. beyond
that rate, and have priority as to capital.
They are on offer at 195.; the backing
amounts to £4 2s. lOd. in net tangibles, all
in plant, etc., worth wliat it can be made
to earn. The last sale of the ords. was at
9s. about a month ago.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
This co. manufactures builders’ and
plumbers’ hardware, etc. Goodwill (£22,682)
is not reckoned as an asset hereunder:—
, Dividends Towards
Net Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.e. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 9,082 222 9 p.c. = 11,284 21,325
1926.. 15,481 2700 8 „ „ 10,918 1863 19,562
1927.. 21,410 2700 9 „ „ 12,282 6428 13,134
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 „ „ 13,600 5383 7,751
Reserves.
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 „ „ 14,983 9087 1,336
1930.. 11,549 2700 41 „ „ 7,491 1358 2,694
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350 Nil 10,644
When this co. took over the business of F.
Malley and Son a dozen years ago, the build-
ing boom had just begun. Thus capital grew
from £70,000 in 1920 to £196,473 in 1928;
and net earnings, after attending to the
pref. requirements; mounted to 14.4 p.c. on
average ord. capital for the 12 months to
the close of accounts in 1929, compared with
12.5, 13.7, 9.3 and 7 p.c. back to 1925.
But the conditions which made those re-
sults possible have gone, and are not likely
to return. Meanwhile Sydney has become
much overbuilt, and the construction and
ancillary trades are practically at a stand-
still. Hence stocks have been difficult to
move, while prices have continued to ease,
and taxation and bad debts have kept
exes, relatively high. The turnover was
over 50 p.c. lighter last year, and, after
taking , stocks into the sheet at £17,650
less than at the previous balance, there
was a slip of £38,332 in gross pro-
fits (£34,074). Exes. (£40,474, includ-
ing something for bad debts) were got
back £15,282; but reserves were raided for
■ £5588, so the year’s total loss was £11,988.
This and an interim pref. div. reduced the
lay-by to £10,644 less than the £22,682, at
which goodwill, etc., figures.
There is nothing uncomfortable about the
finances: —
1926. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £166,473 £196,473 £196,473 £196,473
Liabilities . . 30,405 40,009 38,671 17,714
Freeholds . . 39.165 44,122 55,712 55,632
Leaseholds . . 20,886 19,824 18,040 17,272
Plant, etc. . . 33,356 39,213 38,670 40,304
Stock.. .. 39,102 64,061 72,422 54,772
Investments . . 1,193 1,955 1,877
Book debts. . 52,187 62,236 50,165 24,465
Cash, etc. . . 7,806 13,331 5,948 11,677
During the year £20,957 was lopped off the
debt, and £5729 was added to the cash hold-
ing. Still, the more or less liquid surplus
(£73.200, including stocks) was £16,664
lighter. Plant is reported in first-class
order; much depends upon that, and whether
the provision for contingencies proves to be
adequate.
Alive to the altered conditions, the man-
agement has lost no time in getting new lines
' (Continued on page 16.)


c 4nd %m-Jor ECONOMY!
THE NEW
Barnet Glass
DURO Tyre
é
ê


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer "Wood Pipes and Wood Tanks provide the
most practical means for the conveying or storage of
any type of liquid. They are light, strong, durable
and non-corrosive. Their first cost is comparatively
small and upkeep cost is practically nil. They have
been successfully used on many important installa-
tions. Full particulars from the Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Vic-
toria. — Advt.
* * sH *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
AM'P)
£2,876,000 distributed
in cash bonuses to-day.
Notwithstanding the times, there is good news for all members of
the A.M.P. to-day. Many commercial concerns have either
reduced dividends this year, or have not been able to pay any,
but the A.M.P. (after having increased its special reserves to
£1,580,000) is able to distribute £2,876,000 in cash bonuses
(equal to a return of more than 10/- in the £ of all premiums
paid under participating policies in 1930) this morning. This
represents a paid-up addition to policies of £4,980,000.
Let the A.M.P. help you
re-build your assets that
depression has reduced.
Now, doubtless, the depression has seriously reduced your assets?
Your property and shares no longer have the value they had two
years ago. If you were to die your estate would—ah, but there’s
a way to restore it!
As v
our
Estate
was
m
in
sdf
sf
As v
ou
make
can
with
it
AMP
aid
Do you realise that, through the
A.M.P., you can restore your assets
to their previous value immediately?
There is an A.M.P. policy available
to every man in good health that will
do just that—and give him security
and peace of mind as well.
A letter or telephone message to the
“Enquiry Officer” at the nearest
A.M.P. Office will bring you full
particulars or the efficient services of a
representative.
A.M.P.
Society
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Offices in the capita] and leading
cities of the Commonwealth and
New Zealand, with Field Represen-
tatives in all districts.
fd
on to the market. Earnings will largely
depend upon the co.’s success or otherwise
in this direction.
For the pound ords., which fetched 235.
3d. two years ago, 2s. is now offered. The
prefs. are priced at 11s. There are 30,000
of them, carrying a fixed cumulative 9 p.c.,
with priority as to capital, and the right
to a premium of 2s. 6d. in a wind-up or
return of their money. They are covered
by £6 3s. lid. in net tangibles, of which
£2 Bs. lOd. was in surplus liquids.
Exchange on Tin Shipments
Recently Tiie Bulletin Service Depart-
ment replied to a correspondent who asked
what the Australian price for tin should be
with the metal at £l2O London, and who
should get the exchange. The reply (which said
exchange belonged to the producer with small
deductions) was sent by aggrieved tin-get-
ters in Tasmania to the local Mines Depart-
ment, which passed the inquiry on to “the
principal ore-buyers in the Commonwealth.”
Whether the Mines Department expected the
ore-buying firm to reply that the producers
were entitled to all the exchange, and that
if they hadn’t got it the firm would find out
(from itself) the reason why, the “Wild
Cat” doesn’t know; actually the firm put
forward this “explanation” :
A good deal of the metal produced in Australia
is _ used in Australia, and the balance is
shipped overseas. When you buy a parcel you
can never tell whether the metal is to be shipped
overseas or sold locally. Stocks have to be
held in Australia for local requirements, and these
are usually purchased in lots of lOcwt. to 1 ton,
whereas we can sell for shipment to London any
quantity at any time. All this involves carrying
risks of markets, because the business is always
transacted by using the London forward price of
the day as the basis.
For the same reason woolgrowers shouldn’t
expect the exchange premium, because some
of their clip may be wanted by the local
mills; and the wheatgrowers mustn’t look
for it either, because the wheat merchants
have to supply the local population, and
“this involves carrying risks of markets.”
Nevertheless, “the principal ore-buyers in
the Commonwealth” say :
Notwithstanding these difficulties we have found
it possible to pass on to the producer a consider-
able proportion of the benefit from the current
exchange premium.... For instance, to-day we would
pay, delivered in Sydney, the full contents of the
ore at the forward price ruling in London yester-
day without any deduction whatsoever for the cost
of bags, cartages, smelting, loss in smelting, cost
of realisation and margin.
The “Wild Cat” is glad to know that “to-
day” these principal ore-buyers are doing
all this. But it suggests that it would be
a great deal more satisfactory if, they
would make the charges to which they
are legitimately entitled, and then pay
the producer the exchange premium “with-
out any deduction whatsoever.” When
he is paid less than full exchange he is not
getting the Australian equivalent of the
quoted price; and no amount of juggling can
alter that fact.
Clarence River Gold Mining and Pros-
pecting is being floated in Grafton (N.S.W.)
to resume work on the old Beacon mine
on Bucca Creek, which was earlier known
as Taylor’s Reward. In the ’nineties the
mine was a solid producer, output for 1897,
the peak year, being £27,000. The reef
pinched out at the 100 ft. level, and as water
added to other troubles, the mine was closed
down. The old workings were very
thoroughly cleared of gold-bearing stone, and
the new co. does not intend to pay atten-
tion to them. Instead, a search is to be
made for the lost reef with a diamond drill.
The reef, as originally opened out, was over
800 ft. horizontal. It is claimed that a for-
mation of this extent is not likely to die
out at 100 ft., and the diamond drill is the
cheapest way of proving the theory that
it makes again lower down. Capital is
£lO,OOO in £1 shares. Vendors take 1600
and 8400 are offered to the public at 2s. 6d.
on application and allotment.
* * * *
Great Britain Tin Sluicing, a co. with a
property near Stratlibogie (N.S.W.), finished
the half-year ending April 25 with a loss of
£269. Adding the previous debit of £BB2,
there is now £ll5l shown on the wrong side
of the ledger. The mine has been worked
on tribute; production was 15 tons, averag-
ing £B4 per ton. Tribute receipts were
£230. Capital is £5OOO, and reserve-fund
investments amount to £4275, this being the
principal asset _apart from the mine and
plant item, £3350. Directors are consider-
ing the winding up of the co., which has
been a good div. payer in the past.
* * * *
Some promising new gold finds are reported
from Queensland. One on Cracow station,
near Theodore, in the Dawson country, is a
reefing show. Here about two hundred men
are on the field, and leases are being freely
pegged. Another find, made by a party
of prospectors from the old field of Ravens-
wood, is at The Falls, on the Burdekin
River, a short distance west of Ayr. This
party has located gold-bearing wash along the
river banks, where colors were obtained to a
depth of 27ft. The location is probably a
natural catchment area, fed by the gold-
bearing country to the west, where Ravens-
wood, Rochford, the Kirk and Donnybrook
once supported a considerable mining popu-
lation. On the Reid River in the Towers
district several mineral leases have been
taken up, and claims registered. Towers
miners are making out to the new find, which
was located by Ilume and Henderson some
weeks ago. The pair were about to abandon
the claim when a final bore cut a leader.
A 10-ton sample crushing from the Last
Chance, as the claim is called, yielded 107 oz.
of gold.
* * * *
Charters Towers contribution towards the
revival of gold prospecting is to try to get
a co-operative drilling company going to
test the reefs by boring. On the strength
of the field’s reputation in the past, the Gov-
ernment is expected to lend a hand. But
boring for patchy ore-shoots in reefs is a pre-
carious business. If the Towers had a
“banket” deposit it would be a horse of a
different color. Previous boring on this field
led nowhere.
* * * *
On the Mt. Peter Goldfield, near Cairns,
there are some 40 miners, mostly satisfied
with their claims and waiting for the finishing
touches to a battery to get their ore crushed.
Two parcels of 20 tons each, sent to Char-
ters lowers, yielded ounces to the ton. Pros-
pects are that the field will give a fairly
good account of itself when the stamps
begin to fall.
* * * *
G. C. Klug, of Bewick, Moreing and Co.,
has joined the board of the Princess Royal
Co., operating at Westonia, and superinten-
dent Edquist, of the Sons of Gwalia, which
is under the general management of B. M.
and Co., has been appointed consulting engi-
neer. The performances of the mill since
its erection early in the year have been
disappointing.
* * * *
Lake View and Star has half its new plant
at work. The other half is expected to
be ready by the time development enables a
ru n *tt llUoUS su , ore to be drawn from
J- haulers lease, into which the most important
lodes dip at a depth of 2500 feet. The mine
should then be in a position to realise all
the good things officially promised for it.
* * * *
Apart from the ill-fated Kimberley, Yil-
garn was the first of the W.A. goldfields,
and the old field is being revived in pro-
mising style over a length of 100 miles.
Several good finds have been made, but
these are more suitable for working parties
than company operations. Should the
present activity continue, prospectors have
a good chance of finding the much hoped for
big show.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly Co., Norseman (W.A.),
which is about to reconstruct, has treated
a parcel of 317 tons at the State Battery
for a yield of 117 oz. The value of the
tailing is expected to be high.
* * * *
Renong Consolidated Tin, a Burmah
Malay subsidiary working in Western Siam,
netted £6709 for the year ended December
31 last. The closing down of the plant
for two months reduced recoveries ; 556 tons
of ore were won in 10 months for a working
profit of £20,484, of which £8042 was struck
off for depreciation. Costs were 3.28 d. per
cubic yard, which is good going in Siam.
The dredge has developed its full capacity
of 200,000 c.y. per month. On that basis
the property has 12 years’ life ahead. The co.
has a debenture _debt of £22,905 carrying 10
p.c. interest; £5OOO (in scrip) is coming to
the parent for the lease, and £3591 to sun-
dry creditors. Debtors and cash total £5548.
* * * *
Kamunting Tin Dredging, London regis-
tered, with Australian affiliations, has
issued a statement regarding the payment of
divs. In the past the co. has not made
public the profit on the monthly output, the
reason being that the co. paid the British
income tax itself, and in consequence the
mine profit figure was subject to the tax. In
future this charge will be deducted from
divs., and as this removes the difficulty in
arriving at the monthly profit, the figures
will now be made public.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Details concerning scheme whereby
gold prospectors in Queensland receive a
subsidy from the Mines Dept. (2) Where
can a “dolly ” be obtained, and cost? (3)
Which opal field is the most recently dis-
covered, and which is yielding the best
return? (4) Fare Melbourne to Towns-
ville? —3428.
(I)” Queensland prospectors and miners of
experience who are unemployed and regis-
tered as such at a Labor Bureau are assisted
by the Government, provided they have defi-
nite prospecting propositions in view in
localities they are acquainted with. The
rates are £2 p.w. for married men with
dependants, £1 for single men. (2) Taylors
and Elliotts, Ltd., Brisbane, can supply a
quicksilver bottle which, when cut down,
makes a good “dolly.” Cost of bottle is 55.,
cost of cutting about Is. (3) Latest
important opalfiehl in Queensland was Koroit
(38 miles N.-N.-W. Cunnamulla railway
station), discovered in 1897. Only field in
Queensland producing opal at present is
Sheep Station Creek, Thargomindah district;
and Hayricks, about 60 miles west from
Quilpie, has recently received some atten-
tion. (4) £7 19s. (second-class) by rail.
T have been told that there is gold on a
N.S.W. private property, and the owner has
a notice “Trespassers will be prosecuted."
What steps would I have to take to get at
it? What compensation would I have to
make to owner ?— 4062.
Application may be lodged with the war-
den’s clerk of the mining division within
which the land is situated for authority
to enter, accompanied by a current miner’s
right and ss. towards payment of rent and
compensation for surface damage. This
damage will be assessed by the warden after
an inquiry, of which applicant will receive
due notice. An interim permit for location
of the area (to be subsequently marked out
by the warden’s officer) may be obtained, if
desired, to obviate any action for trespass.
No prospecting should be done on the area
until an authority to enter is granted, or
unless with the consent of the owner. The
warden’s clerk will give further particulars
as to procedure, etc., if interviewed.
How many tin-dredging plants are there
in N.S.W., and how many of them operated
last year? Quantity and value of tin pro-
duced by them last year and the year before?
—4221.
There are 37 dredging plants on tinfields,
but very few operated during 1930. The
production, almost wholly obtained in New
England, was 294 tons tin concentrates,
valued at £25,266, compared with 531 tons,
valued at £68,345, during previous years.
Why should banks not be permitted to
issue notes against their liquid assets, at a
charge, say, of 4 or 5 p.c., such issue to be
earmarked for assistance to primary pro-
ducers?—364s.
First, what is a liquid asset? Some people
lately thought they had such a thing in a
Government Savings Bank deposit. They are
not so sure to-day. Others thought they had
one in Government bonds. With these down
to £6O per £lOO (and below £5O in the
U.S.A.), there is doubt about them, too.
After the Napoleonic wars British bankers
thought to liven things up by just such a
note issue. Presently the notes came in for
redemption, and 147 British banks went
broke. In Australia, of course, the notes
wouldn’t come in for redemption: we haven't
anything left to redeem them with. They
would stay out, and people would try to
pass them on to others at a discount. If there
were enough of them they might get down
to a few pence each. But why leave the
issue of these promises to pay to the banks?
Why not give everybody the right to issue
promises-to-pay (cheques) against his “liquid
assets”? Everybody, of course, would have
the right to refuse payment of his cheques,
or to pay with other cheques.
Were the buyers of any N.Z. Perpetual
Forest bonds guaranteed re-purchase? What
bonds and on what terms? —4196.
Only the first issue. The co. undertook to
buy back these bonds at par with 5 p.c.
interest on three months’ notice. A reserve
has been established for the purpose.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Policy-holder: See answer to No. 1, 4041,
p. 16, B. 24/6/’31... .F.C.: (a) Solvent, but bonus
prospects poor. (6) Unimpeachable, (c) Progres-
sive and sound A.H.W.: Siamese Tin Syndicate,
Collins House, Melbourne, has been looking for tin
shows.... J.A.M.: Don’t know... .Ben G.: Depends
on how many premiums have been paid. Sound.
enough thus far, but bonus prospects very poor
W.A.8.: London “Mining Journal,” 15 George-street,
Mansion House, E.C.4 E.M.: Looks good. Still
there is a risk—these big concerns producing some-
thing in the nature of necessaries may be liable to
attack in the future... .K.W.P.: The sample in the
cardboard box is brown siliceous ironstone with
cemented wash dirt. The sample in the tobacco-tin
is sandstone and grey clayey sand. Neither substance
is of any value unless auriferous. Should an assay
for gold and silver be desired, further samples, taken
in accordance with printed instructions issued by the
N.S.W. Mines Dept., should be submitted... .R.L.8.:
There is risk, but less in a fixed deposit than in
most investments. Bank mentioned is one of the
strongest.


SERVICE
mmeM!*
w.
:'\ y/- , : < •
:■' > • .■■?'a
/ 'U
K'slSf/r:
&
ms
mm.
>: >.
' ■ '
l
S
,x:
fSS
N.C.46/39
FORD CARS
TRUCKS AND
TRACTORS ARE
BRITISH EMPIRE
PRODUCTS
The New Ford Town Sedan.
car is only
as good as its parts • • • •
Only Genuine Ford Parts are
good enough for a Ford Car or
Truek • • . Genuine Ford Parts, as used in the
manufacture of Ford Cars and Trucks, are built to rigid
Ford specifications based on years of research and
practical experience. Metals are specially developed for
the particular task they have to do. Such requirements
as heat resistance, surface hardness, toughness, are all
scientifically controlled. Over forty different kinds ol
steel are used in the New Ford—seven kinds in the trans-
mission alone ; each kind necessary for the unusually high
standards of Ford performance .... So much for
materials. But exact size is just as important. Under
Ford specifications, precision limits as fine as one ten-
thousandth of an inch are maintained unerringly by the
use of the famous Johannsen Gauges. Genuine Ford
Parts must pass exacting tests and are submitted to
strains far more severe than they can conceivably meet
in actual service.
Remember that the Authorised Ford Dealer is a unit of a
nation-wide service organisation, directly controlled by
the Ford Motor Company. He is under contract to sell
only Genuine Ford Parts. More important still, he knoivs
the damage inferior parts can cause in your car—and he
sdf
knows the harm they will do to his own business.
So play safe ! When service may be needed,
patronise Authorised Ford Dealers or Service
Stations wherever you may travel.
Vyv/A
m
mmi
The spurious valve ( in-
set ) has been in service
less than 2,000 miles. The
genuine Ford valve is a
one-piece die casting of
chrome silicon steel which
will keep its strength under
continuous searing flame.
LTD
MO TOR COMPANY OF AUSTR ALIA PTY.
FORD
SHADOW SHOWS.
“C. Ma”: Warner Brothers’ faithful
rendering of “Outward Bound” (Melbourne
Palace) prompts comparison with the stage
version of Sutton Vane’s fantasy of life
hereafter. The cast is as good as the original
co. which gave the piece to Australia at the
Athenaeum. The dialogue has been carefully
followed, though there have been necessary
extensions fore and aft to make the happen-
ings on Charon’s ocean-liner more explicable.
The effect of translation to the screen has
been to make the story less theatrically
dramatic and throw more weight on to the
underlying philosophy; and the philosophy
isn’t able to bear the extra burden. We are
asked to contemplate a heaven in which suc-
cessful British citizens live in the outer
suburbs; poorer quarters are provided
in order to enable Anglican curates to prac-
tise the virtues of charity and condescension
on the slum-dwellers, who presumably dwell
in their slums for all eternity. One wonders
what the celestial authorities would do with
a Tom Mann or a Bertrand Russell. The
fact is that Sutton Vane’s heaven is a
ridiculous absurdity. It is merely a pro-
jection of an English parish.
* * *
“D”: You don’t need to be a Gloria
Swanson fan to enjoy “Indiscreet” at Sydney
State; the only requirement is a sense
of slapstick. It begins ominously with the
lady of the passionate mouth and Oriental
eyes administering the bird to a faithless
lover. Obviously he will make trouble when
the right man comes into her life. Enter
Ben Lyon, honest, affectionate, an adept
wiseeracker, everything the other was not.
In the meantime the reject has been getting
engaged to Gloria’s innocent little sister —
the one their dead mother charged her to
keep unspotted from the world. Miss Swanson
has many opportunities to tear a passion to
tatters, but over and over again when the
worst threatens she provides farce instead
of bathos. Mr. Lyon is as refreshing in
this line as she is, and occasionally more so.
Some of their acts, such as the business
with the street baseball players, are as funny
—also as irrelevant to the main story—as
anything in “City Lights.” The undesirable
is duly exposed, and chucked by the flapper-
sister, and Gloria and her young man rush
off hilariously on an ocean-liner.
There is a beautiful Ufa nature picture on
the State bill. It shows how plants and
flowers grow. By some wizardry of the
camera a week has been compressed into a
few seconds, and seeds sprout and buds
blossom before one’s eyes.
y, y, ( y
“D.”: In “The Skin Game” (British
International), at Sydney Lyceum, Gals-
worthy parables the pitiless resistance of the
old order to the remorseless inrush of the
new. The Hillcrists personify the ancient
countryside; the Hornblowers, the industrial
age; the Jackmans, the toilers on the land
whose cottage has to make room for factories
and grime. Edmund Gwenn, as Mr. Horn-
blower, i§ the irresistible force; Helen Haye,
as Mrs. Hillcrist, is the immovable obstacle.
What Ilornblower wants, but can’t get, is
social recognition; what Mrs. Hillcrist
dreads, but is powerless to avert, is the
destruction of the landscape. The struggle
pivots on the acquisition of a beauty-spot,
The Gentry. The Hillcrists bid more than
they can pay, and when Hornblower drops
out they let it go to, as they think, a friendly
agent. He is Hornblower’s agent. The
resulting feud leaves the audience in doubt as
to whether the old or new order is the more
abominable. Mrs. Hillcrist discovers that
Il'ornblower’s daughter-in-law has been a
prostitute, and so makes him hand over The
Gentry, for which he has paid £9500, for
£4500. In doing so, though the playwright
doesn’t stress it, she is guilty of a felony.
The breach of her promise which causes the
girl to commit suicide doesn’t make her more
unpleasant; nothing could. But she is less
so than her husband; throughout the black-
mailing of Hornblower, to which he is an
accessory, he mouths pieties. Edmund Gwenn
is magnificent, and the other members of the
cast of 13 are so good that it is hard to dis-
criminate ; Helen Haye, Edward Chap-
man, as the factor of the Hillcrist estate, and
Ronald Frankau, as the auctioneer, are
among the best. No one who cares about
serious drama should miss this show.
* * *
“D.”: The chief business of the creators
of “Parlor, Bedroom and Bath” (M.-G.-M.),
at Sydney Regent, seems to have been to
supply Buster Keaton with laughs. He
enters as a simple-minded sign-hanger, tacks
his advertisement to a telegraph post, steps
back to admire the effect and is run down by
a car. Reginald Denny, the driver, owns
an adjoining mansion ancj carries him in.
It is the conventional Hollywood pleasaunce,
with a swimming-pool and droves of par-
tially-clothed girls. Denny, for some reason
which the writer didn’t catch, or possibly
for no reason, passes off the unconscious Kea-
ton as the star co-re. of Paris, London and
the European capitals. Naturally the
maidens scramble to secure his services. The
experienced Natalie Moorhead soon sums him
up as a dud profligate, and Denny counters
by hiring Charlotte Greenwood, who runs
a fashion column, to provide hotel evidence
of guilt. From now on Miss Greenwood
divides the laughs with Keaton, and some-
times takes more than her share. The star
depends very little on words. Natural genius
and a long training in the silents enable him
to say all he wants with his face. Cliff
Edwards as a saturnine bell-hop is good
enough to carry the piece on his own, and so
is Charlotte Greenwood.
The inspiration of “The Seas Beneath”
(Iox), the other Regent picture, was evi-
dently the mid-Victorian masterpiece “How
Bill Adams Won the Battle of Waterloo.”
Its theme is the destruction of a German
U-boat by an American mystery-ship and
submarine. In view of the fact that the
L.b.A. navy was useless throughout the
war so much so that the nation’s transports
had to be convoyed by R.N. cruisers and
destroyers one can’t take this picture
seriously. It is a pity, because, though the
war discipline of Uncle Sam’s ranks and
ratings would make a ship’s cat laugh the
photography is marvellous; and George
O Bnen, W arren Hymer. Walter C Kell v
a?e 0 n deck eStCemed old friends


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's ; “A Night Out”
Royal “The Calendar”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Yeomen of the Guard”
Tivoli Royal Routine Revue
State Movies and Talkies
Nellie Stewart
“I am in very good health, I am pleased
to say, and busy, very busy, with distressed-
fund appeals. I have a big oue coming on
of which I will let you have full particulars.
I have been recording with the Columbia
Company here, and the tests are good. We
have been broadcasting ‘Sweet Nell,’ as you
know, so altogether things have been hum-
ming.”
Thus Nellie Stewart wrote me a couple of
weeks ago, and now her busy life has ended.
She was essentially a busy woman'. She
began her stage career when only three
Nellie Stewart, as she appeared to Harry
Julius in the Sept., 1914, revival of
“Sweet Nell.”
years old at the Haymarket" Theatre, Mel-
bourne, in the early-Victorian thriller, “The
Stranger,” with Charles Kean and his wife.
She declared that she could distinctly re-
member her first appearance and the cos-
tume worn by her father, who was the light
comedian of that far-away show. “I can
get again even the old smell of the theatre,”
she said, “a scent of gas and cigars and
orange-peel.” Her stage work ended only
with her death.
Ever since I first knew her—say, 30 years
ago—everyone has asked inevitably when
speaking of her, “llow old is Nellie Stewart
now ?” as if her age mattered! She played
the part brilliantly; why worry over her
age? In point of fact, she was never quite
certain herself as to her age. “There seems
to have been no registration of my birth, but
I was christened in St. James’s Church, in
King-street, Sydney, and my name, of course,
was not Stewart—my father’s nom de theatre
—but Towzey.” So she told me.
When I was helping her in the prepara-
tion of her book, “My Life’s Story,” in
1922, I looked up the record of her baptism.
She was born in 41 Woolloomooloo-street,
M ’loo, a two-storey house. Her father, who
had arrived in Sydney in 1853, and had
been up to the diggings at the Turon, mar-
ried Nellie’s mother, Mrs. Guerin, in 1857.
Her mother’s maiden name was Theodosia
Yates, and she taught the choruses at Drury
Lane; she married James Guerin, a leader
of the orchestra in Mrs. Clarke’s opera co.,
who became father of Nellie Stewart’s
half-sisters, Docy and Maggie. Docy sur-
vives to-day as Madame Chambossier, in
Melbourne. Her age is 82. Maggie died
years . ago. Richard (“Dick”) Stewart,
Nellie’s only brother, resides in Sydney, and
was lately manager of the Criterion Theatre.
Nellie Stewart first blossomed forth as
the star of a family entertainment. This was
“ Hiding ” her lover from the King (Clarence
Blockision) in the “Du Barry” of the
1914 season.
. R , evels ’” written by Garnet Walch.
~ y 1!, Revels,” and a second-night
nil called If, the Stewart family toured
Australia in 3878. I have programmes of
these shows which Nellie Stewart gave me,
and I see that Richard Stewart (the father)
played five parts in “Rainbow Revels,” Docy
played five, Maggie played five, and Nellie
•six. Hie programmes disclose comedy
which seems crude to us, but they clicked,
and the little company, with Dick' Stewart,
jun., as manager, toured Australia, Maori-
Jand, India, England and America with
success.
Then the Stewart Family were summoned
back to Australia by George Coppin to take
part in the “Sinbad” panto, at the Theatre
So,®lbournc, for the (Christmas season,
3880-81 with Nellie a.s principal boy.
I henceforward she was a recognised star.
Since then, what? “Pinafore,” at St.
George s Hall, Melbourne, on .Tune 7, 18713
—that same night the Lingards produced
< iP. e . ra a *- *ke Academy of Music (now
T 3 Nellie Stewart played Ralph
Rackstraw. I remember Charlie Kenning-
ham telling me that Rackstraw was
j I ?. ost . exactin S tenor rOle of the Gilbert
and Sullivan repertoire.
Then came “Tambour Major” (1880-81),
Olivette” (1881), “Les Cloches de Corne-
ville’ (1882), “Estrella” (1884. An Aus-
tralian opera this, by Luscombe Searelle,
“very sweet,” according to Nellie. Phil
Day, an excellent comedian, was the Doge).
1 Miidame Favart,” “La Petite Mam’zelle”
and ‘The Merry Duchess” were also produced
m 1884.
( Then comes a long catalogue: “Patience,”
“The Sorcerer,” “La Mascotte” (with
Maggie Moore), “lolanthe,” “Mikado,”
“Dorothy,” “Faust,” “The Mountebanks,”
“Yeomen of the Guard,” “Billee Taylor,”
“Pepita,” “Boccaccio,” “Chilperic,” “Paul
Jones” (at Melbourne Opera House, with
Snazelle), “Madame Angot,” “Blue-eyed
Susan” (London), “La Cigale,” “The Gon-
doliers,” “Princess Ida,” “Mam’zelle
Nitouche,” “Ma Mie Rosette,” “The Artist’s
Model” and “The Scarlet Feather” (Lon-
don), “Belle of New York” (Dublin) and
the Lord knows how many pantomimes.
Then this amazing woman lost her sing-
ing voice, and surprisingly broke out into
comedy and drama. “Sweet Nell of Old
Drury” (1902), “Mice and Men,” “The
Country \Mouse,” “Dolores,” “Zaza,” “Old
Heidelbe?*£,” “In the Bishop’s Carriage,”
“Pretty Peggy” (this was a Peg Woffington
play, and The Bulletin cruelly said it had
been written by her milliner!), “Camille,”
“Sweet Kitty Bellairs,” “As You Like It,”
“What Every W9man Knows,” “Trilby”
(Nellie played this in Australia only in
Sydney), “When Knighthood Was in
Flower,” “Madame du Barry,” and, finally,
separate acts each week of “Sweet Nell” at
the Tivoli.
“As a girl I lived at St. Kilda,” she wrote
me recently, “and with my father and sister
walked to and from the Windsor station
each day to rehearsal in the morning, and
to appear at night. It was a great treat
for us to have a cab from the station home
at midnight occasionally. Our home life
was simple. When we returned from rehear-
sal we had the main meal of the day, then
two hours’ rest, followed by a light tea.
My supper was always a boiled onion.”
Although a popular vote would give
“Sweet Nell” as Nellie Stewart’s best role,
she herself always preferred “Zaza.” For
this part she told me she got £75 a week
from the Firm, her highest salary thus far.
For principal boy at Drury Lane she got
£5O a week, two performances daily. The
biggest salary she ever drew through all her
years of opera in Australia, creating Gilbert
and Sullivan roles, was £l5 a week.
Nellie Stewart left Sydney on Christmas
Day, 1905, for San Francisco, taking with
her a complete Australian co., actors,
mechanists, orchestra —everything. The
theatrical ring was up against her —or
George Musgrove’s enterprise—and she had
to appear in a discredited theatre with a
half-hearted publicity, preparation. She
took the town by storm. “Sweet Nell” ran
for 14 weeks. Unfortunately the great
earthquake interfered with the enterprise.
• •••••
And so Nellie Stewart passes on. A hard-
working, dinkum Australian, who was every-
body’s friend, and who has done not a little
to advance Australia’s prestige.
Norman Campbell.
• ♦
Beresford Fowler revived his war play,
“Greater Love,” at the Queen’s Hall, Mel-
bourne, last week before a packed house,
rendered defenceless by the fact that the
performance was in the cause of charity.
Nobody could do anything to Mr. Fowler’s
play that would not improve it, and the per-
formance was better for sundry additions
and alterations. One of the improvements
was the resignation of the leading man from
the part of “Tiger” Miller, the heroic Anzac
who scorns to take cover in the Flanders
trenches, and his appearance as the ex-
schoolmaster Jace Farquhar, whose secret
vices are drunkenness and a dislike of shav-
ing. The spontaneous work of the Wesley
College boys in the first act confirmed this
critic’s theory that it takes a long time and
unremitting industry to make a bad actor.
* * te-
st. John Ervine’s “Jane Clegg” was the
last shot in Gregan McMahon’s latest offen-
sive at Melbourne Comedy. It concerns
Henry Clegg, a lower middle-class English-
man, whose adultery with a shopgirl has
had biological consequences. Purposing to
escape with his mistress and child to Canada,
he embezzles his firm’s money, gets found
out, and begs his wife to make the loss good
out of a legacy. After having done so she
discovers that he still has the misbegotten
money and is off by the steamer in the morn-
ing. With the wife indignantly refusing
Henry's sentimental request to be allowed to
spend the last night under the domestic roof
the play closes.
The piece purports to be realistic, but the
impression given is that Ervine, like many
other modern playwrights, is all muddled up
as to what constitutes realism. A truly real-
istic dramatist would have told the audi-
ence more about the Clegg family than it
knew already, just as a truly realistic painter
shows the layman more in a landscape than
the layman previously could see in it. But
in his first two acts, at any rate, Ervine tells
us no more about the Cleggs than we could
have learnt for ourselves by listening at the
keyhole to an actual conversation. A
camera working in conjunction with a dicta-
phone would have related the story just as
well as he did and much in the same manner.
Up to the second curtain Ervine is a
dramatic Streeton. In the last act
lie decides to be a psychologist, and
things improve. Here he makes it; clear
that the squalid and ignoble Henry
has sparks of the divine fire in him, but
circumstances have been against him. His
wife’s moral superiority has given him a
feeling of inferiority, only to be assuaged
on the breast of a woman sufficiently in-
ferior to himself to make him feel a good
fellow again. These are the sort of reali-
ties that are never mentioned in the divorce
courts. If they were, dramatists would be
superfluous. It was a long and wearisome
job waiting at the Comedy for Mr. Ervine
to be an artist, but he became one ten
minutes before the final curtain.
The performance left doubts as to whether
the playwright was more sinned against than
sinning. Gregan McMahon gave a worm’s-
eye view of Henry, until that ignoble person
stank in the nostrils of the audience pos-
sibly more than Ervine intended. Ruby
May was consistently miserable as his wife,
and Phcebe Marks continuously noisy as his
mother. There was an absence of subtlety
even in the performance of the front door
of the Clegg home, which banged like the
gate of Eternity.
Anatole France’s delightful “Man Who
Married a Dumb Wife” was delightfully
dressed, and, for the main part, delightfully
acted. The exceptions were Claude Thomas
(Master Adam Fumee), who has mishandled
all the parts this critic has seen him in;
and Jan Moray, whose tongue didn’t rattle
enough after the surgeons put it in good
working order. The admirable Howard
Smith, as Master Botal, and John Bagot, as
the surgeon, were the embodiments of
Anatole France’s humor.
* # *
“Fallen Angels” came one more gutser
at Sydney Playbox. Noel Coward’s three-
acter is a light, Frenchified comedy, demand-
ing supremely good acting by two women who
must be endowed to an extraordinary extent
with the talent for translating that sort of
wittiness which, w-hen properly put over, is
delicate and delightful, but when even moder-
ately well got over is sickly and sniggering.
By Therese Desmond and Sheila Reeves
the piece was not given the correct sort of
acting. Miss Desmond gave a fair imita-
tion of the true thing, and if she had known
her part about 10 times better she might
have been passable. The other lady throws
emphasis about as recklessly as Lang throws
taxes, and far from being light and frothy she
is heavy and rushing. Additionally, both
young women are shrill sopranos, and as
they have to speak more than two-thirds of
the entire dialogue, and seemed to have the
idea that it was necessary that the play-
wright in his Chelsea flat should hear them
distinctly, the effect of an hour or so of it
on ears within closer range tended to be
harrowing.
The three men in the show were not very
effective, but were not a trouble. Two of
them had simple, primitive characteristics
to portray, and that is the sort of thing in
which Duncan Macdougall’s followers invari-
ably appear at their best. Present writer has
Sweet Nell, as Hal
Gye saw her at Mel-
bourne Tivoli in 1917.
seen only a couple
of Playbox shots
at light comedy
and both were
failures, On the
other hand. Mac-
dougall has staged
O’Neill and other
primitives and raw-
b e e f merchants
quite competently.
He is a really good
producer of the
starker sort of
drama, and that is
the kind which
seems to be best
acted in his
theatre. He does
not do the produc-
ing for the current
show, but the pro-
ducing is the best
part of it. The
sting is in the
acting. As with
the same theatre’s
“Viennese Nights,”
the failure seems to
arise from men and
women, by courtesy
called actors, try-
ing to convey the
illusion of a kind
of life that they
are themselves in-
capable of experiencing.
¥ * ¥ -
The Firm’s revival of “A Night Out” is
the best show seen at Sydney Majesty’s dur-
ing the more recent of the good old days.
It has lots of color, and that orchard-blossom
sort of cleanness that is as fixed as a trade-
mark on J.C.W. musical comedies. But,
more than anything else, it goes because
nearly all the people have the particular sort
of work that suits them. Frith, in his old
role of the henpecked Pinglet, gets his gags
over admirably, with an air of “I won’t take
offence, even if you laugh.” He wears a
pink tie that looks as if it were made out
of a crumpled-up lady’s dress (only bigger)
and trousers that Beau Brummel might have
worn (in a nightmare). He does not have
to force himself, as in sundry parts in the
recent past; he just goes through with it,
from laugh to laugh, like a bee going from
flower to flower—or, rather, perhaps, like a
goat going from tin to tin. Gus Bluett
serves the slenderer part of the student every
bit as well. F'rith keeps ’em chuckling;
Bluett makes ’em yell. Any night a
tramdriver in George-street is likely to say
to you, “I hear Gus Bluett’s just got an
encore round at Her Majesty’s.” Leo
Franklyn purveys an entirely different
brand of humor. There is always something
bad-tempered about his fun. but he always
gets laughs with it. Frank Leighton con-
tinues to better himself in a slighter part
than usual, Cecil Kellaway does his custo-
mary reliable piece of work, and, to be
chivalrous and not overlook the ladies,-
Bertha Riccardo is very near tears, but even
so quite charming, and Agnes Doyle is a
spry, sprightly, quaint little thing, like
something you’d expect to see jump out of
a nest about hatching time. Her voice is a
terrible thing to hear, but that matters not.
She is a quaint, catchy person. There are
a dozen and more others, not counting the
nicely-laundered ballet and the jolly old
dashing chorus boys.
¥ * *
Forests of bald women, tap-dancing,
blackouts, a Lancashire number, Fred
Bluett (father of the great Gus), song with
ballet, bedroom scene, Indian scena, Spanish
scena, references to Lang’s ss. in the £l,
orchestra a bit too loud, “Ha-ha-ha, here’s
that funny ass A 1 Mack again!” some Yan-
kee sentimental song, Lcn Rich and chorus,
an operatic trio, a couple of dozen other
items, G&d_Save the King. Mr. Rolls calls
it “Step This Way,” and it is the new-
show at the St. James. It belongs to that
family of scattered parentage musical-
comedy revue. The breed’s chief mission
is to refute the proverb and-please every-
body. The palate that could take the lot
of it would belong to a cormorant, but almost
anyone would find entertainment in it at
some point. or other. There is rather too
much dancing, of the kind that is more
energetic than graceful, for present writer’s
taste, but the show altogether is all right
for removing a coupla of hours from an even-
Doing a little window-smashing in “Dorothy
o’ the Hall,” Sydney Royal, January,
1915.
ing painlessly, or nearly. Its weakest point,
regarded box-officially, is that it lacks a
star. The deah public deahly loves a star.
Yet another charge of the Popgun Hus-
sars occurred in the Sydney salient on Satur-
\ day, when Frank Neil, fresh from his famous
onslaught on the Boers, stormed the eager
bastions of the Criterion sector, using a
light fieldpieco called “Almost a Honey-
moon.” Pending the report of its special
correspondent, this Page is pleased to an-
nounce that, as far as it has heard, nobody
was killed, though the barrage of laughing
and mustard-gas was severe.
* * *
At Sydney Opera House Nat Phillips, Syd
Beck and the rest", of them are in their 36th
week of weekly-change, revue, and appear
to be dug in for the duration of the Great
Depression.
* * #
Adelaide Royal is showing “Dearest
Enemy,” the daintiest thing since “May-
time,” which it rather resembles. New York
costumes of Washington’s day make a
gallant show, and the lyrics are almost Gil-
bertian; but neatly American is the song of
the British generals, “Tryon, and Clinton
—and Howe !” Dorothy Brunton, strongly
recalling Nellie Stewart at times, carries
the show, with sound support from Burchall
and Maidie Hope, Herbert Browne and
Romola Hansen, the other lovers. Seldom
nowadays is a light opera so well sung.
¥ ¥ ¥
Approximately one million (1,000,000)
amateur societies are supplying the demand
for intellectual drama in Melbourne and a
critic is obliged to be selective. Sometimes
the organisations of earnest young men and
maidens meditating onslaughts on the works
of Shaw and Ibsen are so ephemeral that
they are in liquidation or have gone bank-
rupt or are hiding from their creditors
between the time this paper has learned of
their existence and its representative has
reached the scene of the intended bloody
massacre. The Cairns Memorial Dramatic
Society is an exception. It reached its
century of performances at its headquarters
at East Melbourne last week with an excel-
lent production of Noel Coward’s “The
Young Idea.” Dorothy Bush was a sterling
Jennifer, Lewis T'egart a plausible George
Brent, and Tessie Cox and Norman Balmer
made tolerable figures of his children.
* ¥
If William McKie, Melbourne’s new city
organist, did not get a full house for the
second of the municipal concert series it was
not the fault of either the performers or the
standard of the music. If other conductors
had the same austere attitude towards then-
art they -would probably have even smaller
audiences. The organist gave artistic utter-
ance to the Bach Prelude and Fugue in A
minor, and the noble Choral in A minor of
With Arthur Greenaway in another “Sweet
Nell” revival, Melbourne, 1927.
Cesar Franck. Lorna Sterling and Elise
Steele played Dohna-nye’s Sonata for violin
and piano (op. 21) and the Golden Sonata
of Purcell —two very different and exacting
compositions—and very skilfully they did it.
Songs by Reger and Schubert were intelli-
gently sung by Madame Orff-Solscher. While
the above performance was in progress an-
other chamber in the same building was
packed to the ceiling and blue with the
tobacco smoke of the devotees of that form
of art of which Lindrum and Newman were
the virtuosi.


PUTTING HER IN HER PLACE.
“A vigorous attack, on the A.F.A. League on the score of ‘unfair and bitter criticism’ was made by Mr. Bavin in his presidential address to the Nationalist
Convention.” — “S. M. Herald."
“An’ then, Mrs. 'Erald, the hupstart ’ussy tells me to me face to keep me ’ouse tidier. An’ I ups an’ says to er, I says Pig! an swep out."
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Public Loans and Private Mortgages
Dear Bulletin, —In tlie war years I put
all I could spare into Government loans,
including something we had saved up to pay
off the mortgage,on our home. We (my wife
and I) had made some progress in the same
direction when Mr. Lyons’s appeal was issued,
and after much discussion we decided that
it was our duty to make the loan a success,
and try to save our previous investment. Bo
the mortgage remains at 7 p.c., and we aie
to suffer a reduction to 4 p.c. I am told there
is no relation between public and private
debts; but my case shows that there can be
a very close relation, and that a grave wrong
may be done by compelling a reduction of
interest on public loans without doing the
same with private loans. —Yonrs faithfully,
R. S. P.
Take a Leaf from Jock McKenzie’s Book
Dear Bulletin, —Ypur proposal for the
establishment of small farm colonies as a
means of coping with unemployment was
worked very successfully in Maoriland in the
slump times of the ’nineties, and was really
the basis of the land settlement methods of
John McKenzie. McKenzie’s plan was simple.
He employed men to fell bush on Crown
lands and gave them the option of taking-
up the land they had cleared. Side by side
with this, State farms were established, each
employing about a hundred persons, men,
women and children. Work was done on the
co-operative contract system, the farm
manager fixing a price for each job—as near
as possible to yield fair wages. Tents were
provided for destitute families, and they
were encouraged to build rent-free cottages,
each with its half-acre garden. These farms
acted to some extent as a sort of training-
ground or feeder for the main settlement
system, the success of which was so marked
that after three years McKenzie was able to
report: “In several places the scheme is
working well and small thriving communities
have been established. These people are
already asking for schoolhouses to be erected
and showing other signs of permanent occu-
pancy.” Why shouldn’t this plan be applied,
for example, to the scrub lands of the North
Coast of N. S. Wales? This is land suitable
for dairying, and settlement there on an ex-
tensive scale -frould revive the State’k export
butter trade. —Yours, etc., Pakeiia.
What Conversion Means to Old People
Dear Bulletin, —Re this conversion loan.
Why can’t we have some half-way scheme,
such as voluntary reduction of interest with-
out tim'e-extension of loan?
I am on the verge of old age, with a wife
a chronic invalid needing constant medical
attention. All our savings, £3OO, are in
Commonwealth bonds, and we are likely to
need them badly in the next few years. I
was patriotic enough, although well over age,
to put in four and a half years in the A.1.F.,
also to put a very ill-spared £lOO in the
Lyons loan last December. Now I am
unpatriotic and deserving of all sorts of
penalties if I don’t leave my life savings
with the Government for ali time; for I
cannot hope to live beyond the conversion
period.
I would not worry if I got no interest at
all; but it is not fair to ask old folks to
thus bottle up their provision for old age. It
may be necessary, though I don’t think it is ;
but it is a darned long way from equality of
sacrifice.—Yours, in dead earnest, C. S.
The Penalty of Thrift
Dear Bulletin, —I am a Maorilander, 2S
years of age, a non-drinker, non-gambler and
non-smoker. For eight years I worked on
a back-country station, and managed to save
a few hundred pounds. When the slump came
I was discharged, and for six months tried
to secure work otherwise than on what we
Maorilanders term “relief works.” My search
being in vain, I applied eventually for a
“relief” job, but was informed that while
I have money in the Savings Bank I cannot
be employed. I must therefore continue to
draw upon my slender account in order to
live, while fellows who have had the same
chance as I to save, and who “had a good
time” with their wages as they received them,
receive practical sympathy from the Labor
Department. You once remarked, “How
Australians hate thrift!” The “powers that
be” in Maoriland seem afflicted with the
same strange hate. —Yours, Workless
Walter.
Child Endowment
Dear Bulletin.,— -“Tas.’s” diatribe against
child endowment in the public service (B.
3/6/’3l) contains this: “A stableman with
eight youngsters has his pay brought up to
that of a skilled accountant.” Well, why
shouldn’t he? The fact, that a man is a
skilled accountant does not imply that he
is one of a breed of supermen, nor that he
has abnormal brain-power ; it usually means
that his parents had sufficient means to edu-
cate him and enable him to qualify for the
position. In a great many instances it was
the persistence of the parent rather than
the ability of the youngster that was re-
sponsible for the latter’s success. Had the
stableman been granted the same opportu-
nity he too might have been an accountant
—and a snob. —Yours, Geoloin.
This Is a One-man-one-job Time
Dear B., —All sorts of drives being the
vogue, what about a one-man-one-job cam-
paign? The introduction of a bill is, of
course, impracticable; all that can be done
is to appeal to the selfish persons who are
holding two jobs and the employers who
use their services. There are many casual
Friday-night and Saturday-morning sales-
men and shop-assistants who have whole-
time billets. There are men and women
employed during the day who have constant
jobs as ushers and ticket-takers at suburban
picture shows and dance halls, etc. There
are tradesmen who make good money out
of running spare-time home businesses. The
married women whose husbands earn enough
and more for their real needs are a special
curse; they abound in factories, offices and
elsewhere. Others who deserve a word of
contempt are the amateur musicians with
good daytime billets who take the bread of
the pros. Surely at a time like this em-
ployers could undertake a little investiga-
tion, and wherever possible let. the needy
earn the few shillings that is pocket money
for the two-job man (or woman) and bread
and butter for the unemployed.—Yours.
O.U.T.
Public Service Endowments
Dear Bulletin, —“Tas.” thinks tlie embar-
rassed Federal Government could economise
to the extent of over £300,000 by eliminating
the payment of child endowment through its
service. I suggest that actually such pay-
ments do not cost the Federal Government
one penny, for the reason that the basic wage
of every public servant was first set at £lO
annually less than that of any other
industry. Consequently each one of us
(nearly 30,000) really contributes that
amount toward this total of £300,000. —
Yours, A Contributor but not a Partici-
pant.
Anti-eviction and Other Riots
Dear Bulletin, —In these days when
every possible avenue of economy should be
explored, I am moved to protest against the
methods used by the Sydney police in deal-
ing with anti-eviction and other riotous
gangs. It has been the custom to attack
these people with batons, with the result
that many of them, to say nothing of the
police, subsequently require more or less ex-
pensive attention in hospital. They never
pay, of course, and the Government or the
institution has to meet the expense. All
this could be obviated if the police called in
the fire brigades. As one with some ex-
perience, I can certify there is no more cer-
tain method of quenching lawlessness than a
well-directed fire-hose. The jet is a far more
efficacious weapon than a baton, and it is
impossible for anyone to get to close quarters
with the wielder. The boldest band of anti-
evictionists could not stay five minutes in a
building into which several powerful fire-
engines are throwing water, and the toughest
mob will scatter like rabbits before the jets
in the open. When the fuss is over, there are
no broken heads to patch up. At the worst
the communist insurgent may suffer a cold
in the head, and even that may be offset by
his having had a wash. —Yours, etc.,
Captain Shaw.
Dogsbone and Muggins
Dear Bulletin, —I am interested in Dogs-
bone and Muggins, the farmers to whom
you introduced us on June 17 —Dogsbone, the
careful, thrifty, enterprising farmer; Mug-
gins, his neighbor, all the opposite. Yet such
burdens have been laid upon industry that
there is not a Dogsbone in Australia who
earned 1000 pence last year growing wheat,
let alone 1000 pounds. Why should not
Muggins’s farm of the same unimproved
value as Dogsbone’s pay exactly the same
taxes? Why should the latter, because it
gives employment to many men, have hun-
dreds of pounds to pay in taxes, while Mug-
gins’s, because its owner is too lazy or un-
thrifty or incompetent to employ anyone,
pays only a few hundred pence?—Yours,
J. A. McM.
Decentralising Wool Sales
Dear Bulletin, —In this great State of
Queensland every ounce of wool to be offered
at auction has to be dragged to Brisbane.
What would the English grower think if he
were asked to send his produce even as far
as Berlin for sale? Some of our avool has
to travel more than twice that distance. Why
wool sales have not been held at both Glad-
stone and Townsville is a mystery deep and
dark. We hear on every side “Reduce the
cost of production.” Let the growers of
Central and North Queensland get busy and
do their bit in reducing costs by insisting
upon the establishment of local wool sales.
Gladstone is one of the best deep-sea ports
in the world, and Townsville will easin
accommodate any of our wool steamers.
Yours etc., Brisbane Pepys.
Our Wasteful Habits
Dear Bulletin, —Our rubbish dumps must
be as fruitful, in proportion, as those ot
America, which are yielding so much wealth
by scientific treatment. Salvage, of discarded
and obsolete machinery should yield some-
thing well worth while; recently I saw (1)
a windmill and (2) a mowing-machine made
by a cocky from a derelict reaper and binciei,
which had been lying in a neighbor's paddock,
and some old galvanised-iron. And vast
quantities of scrap timber, leather, tin-plate
and paint, etc., are dumped that should be
converted into toys for our next Christmas;
an immediate prohibition on import of toys
would provide a considerable home industry.
What if the goods are not all perfectly made t
Perfect toys, after all, are only for the satis-
faction of parental tastes. —Yours, \ iau.
The Call for Personal Responsibility
Dear Bulletin,-— One of the main char-
acteristics of to-day is the ease with which
the individual can evade responsibility. The
Navy, Army and Mercantile Marine seem to
be the only services where the doctrine oi
individual authority and individual respon-
sibility remains effective.
Personality is dying, and subordinate
heads have become little more than telephone
operators. There are too many boards and
'‘committees and councils; too much collec-
tive authority, which means that it is gen-
erally an almost superhuman feat _to find
out who is responsible for anything. A
great deal of our industrial trouble and dis-
content mav be due to this. The personal
factor has got almost completely submerged,
and the old days when the boss was gener-
ally on the job himself and was known to
his men have gone. Nowadays employees
know a works manager or a general man-
ager or a secretary or even a managing
director, but they do not in very many cases
know that almost godlike—or satanic —col-
lection of beings known as the board of
directors. Sometimes individual members ot
this mystic body may be seen on the job
or at the works “inspecting” or something
of the sort, but in the main it is regarded
as an august body meeting behind closed
doors, talking wisely about abstruse matters,
issuing orders, aud then ceasing to exist
until its next solemn conclave. It can’t be
got at to be kicked or counted out or argued
with or even thanked, and, when it breaks
up, its component parts are visualised as
getting into expensive limousines and going
off to become component parts of some other
similar, body.
The limited company system may be an
excellent thing for the shareholders, but its
impersonality—“no soul to damn and no
body to kick” —produces a state of affairs
that must be and often is maddening to
others who have to look to it for favors,
thanks, abuse, reprimand or anything at ail
human in character. I write this from per-
sonal experience of the effect of the system:
and though it is hard to suggest any means
that will effectively improve tins particular
aspect of the matter, yet there are heaps of
ways in which individual responsibilities for
a person’s own actions can be insisted upon.
—Yours, X. N. O.


The Stanley
Unbreakable Flask
The New Wonder
Flask, made entirely of
Steel and lined with blue
amalite. Is guaranteed
absolutely unbreak-
able, and is the only
Vacuum Flask that
can be used by Motor-
ists or Travellers with-
out fear of breakage.
Call and inspect them.
1- Size:
PRICE, 42/-
2- Size:
PRICE, 65/-
sďf
Pike Brothers, Ltd.,
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
7#ie Standard o t Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Bamsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
TO MEET THE TIMES
sdf
-
Melbourne* Premier Huai
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
Runa : Tiki” might well be suspicious
of the tales of the pale-skihned, red-haired
race of Maori legend. Some years ago an
enthusiastic amateur anthropologist was
visiting the Lower Waikato, and declared
he had unearthed some descendants of those
fabulous people. He told his discovery to
the local storekeeper, who was interested,
and went over the river to inspect the speci-
mens the enthusiast offered to produce. Cer-
tainly the girls who came from among a host of
dusky relatives were of a different type, with
auburn heads, pale skins and straight, short
noses. But the storekeeper was not im-
pressed. “Rubbish!” said he tersely. “Those
three girls are the grand-daughters of old
Duncan McTavish, who married, the daughter
of Ropata. He had the reddest hair I’ve
ever seen in my life. You ask the eldest
one if she can speak Gaelic.” She could.
* * * *
“G.W.”: Went out to dig some spuds for
tea the other afternoon, taking a small iron
wheelbarrow which I set down near the
potato patch. It had been raining all day
and suddenly it became so windy that I ran
under the verandah for cover. Several sheets
of iron were torn off'from immediately above
me. After a few seconds, the tornado passed
on its way and I returned to my job. I
found exactly 12 potatoes, that appeared to
have been carefully washed, lying in the bar-
row! On looking at the bed I found that
four plants had been torn up by the roots,
and I can only suppose that the force of the
wind was so great that it jerked off th<s tops
of the spuds, causing them to fall into the
barrow. There were no spuds lying about
on the ground—all went into the barrow.
* * * *
“Diba Tau”: The Papuan murderer
dreads the thought that any of his victim’s
gore may cling to his own skin and exact
retribution by making him “swell up till
he die, finish.” So he carefully and pub-
licly washes daily for a week with hot water,
using small sticks to scrape his body in lieu
of soap. At the next village dance he
proudly dons his tribal homicidal emblem, a
circlet of hornbill’s feathers or some such
conceit, stuck in his mop of hair; and then,
poor child of nature, he wonders why the
local Sherlock Holmes solves the latest crime
mystery so unerringly!
* * . * *
“W.A.W.”: An offer of £2OO for a whale
that has been dead longer than anybody
can remember has been turned down by Tas.
Uni. authorities. The offer was made by
cable from one of Britain’s learned societies
for the fossil remains of Moby Dick’s sup-
posedly remotest ancestor, found at Wyn-
yard some years ago, and alleged to be of
enormous scientific interest. The view taken
by the Uni. council is that the fossil is pro-
POLITICAL ECONOMY.
UNCOMPROMISING COMMUNIST: “What we say about wages is ‘Hands orf!’”
LISTENER (more interested in his soup ): “Gawd, there ain’t too many of us workin ’
now!”
bably worth a good deal more than the sum
offered, and, in any ease, whatever its money
value, it was discovered in Australia, be-
longs to Australia, is, in fact, a fellow-
Australian, and ought not to be deported.
* * * $
“Tiki”: The pioneers of Maoriland’s flax
industry—which is the country’s oldest ex-
port industry, dating back to
1809 —were the Maoris, who
had many uses for the strong
white fibre and knew more
about’ the plant and> methods
of dressing the flax than Euro-
peans with all their science
have been able to learn in a
century. For a start, they
could distinguish 55 varieties
of the plant, only 20 of which
are known to-day. The wahines
very carefully selected the
leaves, which were taken only
at prescribed seasons, and their
processes made the fibre so
fine and soft that it was in
great demand over a period of
years by silk manufacturers to
mix with their fabrics. The
best-quality Maori product
used only one-fortieth of the
contents, : by weight, of the
green leaf; the European sodic-
sulphite . process gets , a yield
of fibre equal to a quarter the
weight of the leaf. But the
difference in the product is
enormous. As far back as
1861 America had discovered
the virtues of the Maori-
dressed flax, and paid up to
£76 a ton for it (the current
price is about £2O for machine-
dressed) for rope-making.
Between 1828 and 1832 Syd-
ney buyers bought i £50,000
worth, of .the Maori product.
The industry, so far as the
Maoris are .concerned, is be-
coming a'lost art, and Euro-
peans are not having much
luck with it. There were 177
flax mills employing 3200
people in 1891. To-day, despite attempts to
develop systematic cultivation and the invest-
ment of a great deal of capital, there are
only GO mills employing 879 persons.
* * * *
“Mako”: Fear of the dead is a supersti-
tion that clings hard to the Maori. After
a big flood in the Poverty Bay district
(M.L.) some years ago the river changed
its course so completely that the main road
was useless, and a new road had to be made
through an adjacent hill. In cutting through
the workers found an old burying-ground,
possibly pre-Maori, with the result that when
the road was finished the high banks were
dotted with the bones and skulls of the
ancient people. That cutting proved a verit-
able dragon’s pass to the Maoris. No longer
did they linger in town until after dark, but
spurred their steeds and got through the
place of skulls before sundown If by
chance any s were delayed they either rode
seven miles up-river to a ford, or camped at
the other end of the cutting until dawn. At
times a few hardy spirits used to risk the
cutting in company. On such occasions
the whole countryside knew of it, .so loudly
did they sing, shout and bellow to keep the
spirits from interfering with them.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Three abo. skulls, the
first known as the Clifton or Talgai skull,
unearthed, a good while back, the second
found in the Murray Valley (Vic.) in 1926,
and the third' recently discovered in Central
Australia, and still under investigation, take
Binghi back to prehistoric times, and, inci-
dentally, upset another old idea about Aus-
tralia. A question that occurs is how it is
made certain that these skulls were normal
types of the’times and not deformities. There
is a youth in my neighborhood whose head
is almost - double the ordinary size. He is
always hatless, for no shop hat will look
at' his cranium. If his top-piece were dug
up , thousands of years hence, other evidence
being lacking it might be inferred that we
were a race, of giant heads. Probably it
doesn’t matter much, but I’d like to know
how the savants. distinguish between an
atavistic, reversion or a freak and the normal
of a period.
' * * * *
“Backstairs”: The inexplicable rages
which sweep the breast of the sea-lion i re-
ceived another testimonial at East Risdon
(Tas.) recently, when what was described
as a sea monster put its-“forepaws” on the
gunwale ! of a boat and dragged a fisher-
man . into, the water by his. overcoat. When
it got him there it proceeded to sink its
teeth in his leg, but desisted when he gave
it a kick in, the eye. The startled man swam
back to his boat. Since the sea-lion Is not
a human-flesh eater, it is hard to understand
the motive for its violence.
* , * * *
“Hula”.: It. has already been told how,
when at launch capsized, Igua-Kevau and
Gari, two Papuan seamen, saved the only
white survivor of the , crew and passengers,
Mrs. Berge, by keeping her afloat for 12
hours in a raging > sea. The pair were
awarded medals by the Royal Humane
Society in addition to a liberal money present
from the white inhabitants of Papua. When
the long-expected tokens arrived, Igua-
Kevau, who had been awarded the silver
medal —the first, by the way, which has
ever been presented to a non-European-
was dying of pneumonia. Governor Murray
hurried to his house so that he might see it
before he died, but found him unconscious.
His widow took over the medal at a public
function, on behalf of her little son. Her
speech of thanks, as translated, was a model
of gratitude mixed with pride in her dead
husband’s achievement. Gari was content to
receive his bronze medal in silence.
OLD BEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oid Ben’s gone back up Nannine way to
have a look around.
He’s always had his eye, it seems, upon some
likely ground.
And when I saw him off last night he shook
his old grey head :
‘ I Set on to anything I’ll let you know,”
he said.
“There’s something worth a fellow’s while
up there all right—though, mind,
As you should know as well as me, it might
be hard to find.
It lies in country where the ground’s been
only scratched as yet,
And if a man can drop on it I reckon he’ll
be set.”
The train that steamed from Perth last night,
bore other mining men
Bound for the fields, but none as old and
none as game as Ben,
The veteran who went with it to try his luck
once more
Where, on and off, he’s looked around since
early ’ninety-four.
THE BEST ONE HE COULD THINK OF IN A HURRY.
LADY: “Your milk’s not what it was, my man — it’s been looking very blue lately. ”
MILKBOY: “Yes, Mum — it’s this cold weather does it, Mum.”
But old Ben’s critics may be right—it’s mad-
ness, they declare,
To even think, at seventy-odd, of going back
up there.
And yet I somehow can’t but hope that if
there comes a day
When I go mad—if I am sane —that I go
old Ben’s way.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


STAMPS! STAMPS! STAMPS!
WANTED TO BUY Collections or Parcels,
particularly British Colonials.
Look through your old family letters. They
may be worth money to you.
C. F. LASERON, 19 Gastl.ereagh Street, Sydney.
(Entrance in Hosking -Place.-) ’Phone 85434.
Stamp Auctions on the premises every Tuesday.
Send for catalogues. •
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can sec the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SAFETY AND PROFIT
SECURITY. There is no safer place in Australia for the
custody of the savings of the people than the
people's own Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank
of Australia.
SERVICE. Complete Savings Bank facilities are provided
throughout the whole Commonwealth, through Branches
in the principal towns and 4,000 Post Office Agencies.
INTEREST. Every account maintaining a balance from £l
upwards earns interest at the rate of 4% per annum.
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government!) .
“The Law of Compensation” seems sublime
To growing youth exultant in its prime,
But aching age finds little to console
In mere survival —Nature’s niggard dole.
“The Law of Compensation” brings one boon
Where science pours it to a silver spoon—
For gasping lungs there’s ease and comfort sure
In soothing Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.— Advt.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
sf
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridj« Street. Sydney.
“Pick”: When danger puts wild bush
animals to flight, each sort instinctively
takes the kind of country that suits it best.
The hunter who knows their habits is thus
able to circumvent them. A fox always circles
just under the summits of the higher hills.
From there he surveys the country below
while himself remaining unseen from above.
The shooter wise to this strategy watches
from the hill brow, and bowls over the
fugitive as he slouches past. Kangaroos
bound along the saddle of a range and turn
down the first spur. There the gunman in
ambush bombards the fleeing hoppers. Wal-
labies keep parallel with the mountain base,
choosing the roughest going, and where a
rocky pinnacle or morass is to be crossed
wallaroos deviate from their headlong course.
At such vantage points the longtails may be
intercepted. Wild deer skim in a, beeline dash
SCRIPTURE INSTRUCTION.
"'And Joshua made the sun and the moon stand still.' Now, does anybody know
who Joshua was?”
JOHNNY : “Please—a member of Parliament!”
afar over the hills and gullies. The hunter
stations himself miles away, and awaits them
while his beater starts the herd in his
direction. Dingoes glide around the rim of
every glade or clearing that lies in their
way. From the adjacent trees the gunner
deals with them. Hares race from the flats
straight up the slopes of the nearest hill.
A hunter standing on its crest is assured
of meeting them.
. “Selma” : As far as my
experience of bricks on a
fire goes I don’t think
they, are any better
than a Mills bomb either
(B. 17/6/’3l). We had
been advised by an econo-
mical friend to halve our
fuel account by the use of
a brick, and purloined a
specimen. It was on the
fire for some time before
it began to get restive.
Then a ping on the win-
dow notified us of , its in-
dignation. Sundry, por-
tions hit the ceiling,
others spattered over‘the
walls, others again bom-
barded us, all accom-
panied by sounds as of
rapid rifle fire. A crowd
gathered in the passage,
whither we fled scraping
lumps of hot brick off our
faces, and the final ex-
plosion as the whole thing
went off with a bang
gave: a respectable Dar-
lingliurst residential the
shock of its life. It cost
us the price of several
bags of' coal to effect
repairs to the room.
* * *
“C-A.8.”: Apparently
there are circumstances in
which flesh can be petri-
fied. In a quarry at Gun-
durunta (N.S.W.), what
appears to be the petrified
leg of a pig, complete to
the trotter, has been dis-
covered. Age of the relic
can only be guessed pend-
ing an inquest by geolo-
gists, which may settle
some points in doubt as to
how long piggy has been a
denizen of Australia.
“Freeman Sandom” : I have been navigat-
ing the mud flats at Cairns (N.Q.), on a board
6ft. long and 2ft. wide, to which a kerosene-
case has been nailed to hold gear and
specimens. On this I get along at a fair
speed with two hands and one knee resting
on the board while the other leg. propels.
At first sight the flat seems deserted, but
presently a film seems .to clear away, from
your eyes, and you discover evidence of a
teeming life. Crabs, for instance. Here is a
fresh track. You follow it for 20 yards,
dodging hither and thither. Hallo, what’s
this? For a space about a yard in diameter
the mud is churned up, and here, half-
buried in the mud, is a dismembered claw,
12in. long. Two armor-plated gladiators have
battled, perhaps for the favors of some
goggle-eyed, many-legged maiden. A double
FULLY QUALIFIED.
“Wha’s good sendin’ Tummas to deal with they sharpers down to town? We do want
delegate who d’ know ez way ’bout.”
“Hark to un! Haven’t Tummas been underground over fifty year? Ef e’ doan’t
know ez way ’bout, who do?”
track leads away from the field of battle.
The loser has bolted, and the winner is pur-
suing. But not for long; a‘few yards further
and the tracks separate. We’ll track the con-
queror, for he has two claws, one for your wife
and one .for you. Here he has holed. We dig
away a little to widen the mouth of the
burrow, poke down a stick with a hook at
the end, and jerk Jack Dempsey out. He is
a -beauty, a good lOin. across the back.
Better look out; he is in fighting humor,
both „ claws raised ready to nip you to the
bone if lie gets a chance. But we will soon
fix him. . We bring our stick down smartly
on the wicked ‘ claws, pressing them into
the mud, . place our bare toes on his
body close to the flippers (lie cannot reach
back ‘ that far),, pass a string under the
claws, - and over, under, and over again,
press them back to the mouth, pass the two
eiids of the string across the body and tie
a knot under the flippers. Into the box he
goes. We’ll bring a bucket of salt water
home; lie boils best that way. Now we’ll
go and feed our mudjumpers. Close to the
mangroves’ edge j there is a shallow lagoon
where, they are plentiful. Steady now. There
is' a big fellow close to the bank. See him
standing up *on his tail in the mud, back
fin vibrating excitedly, watching us with
his goggly eyes. Throw him a bit of a prawn.
He dives f on it like lightning. “Chk, chk,
chk, chk.” ' Here is a smaller one coming
for a share. But no, “This-is my country,”
says the big chap; “clear out while the going
is good.” With' a mighty, flip of liis tail and
breast fins working like paddles, half in
water and half on mud, he is after the little
fellow. Tiny dives into a crabhole for shelter.
But this is his unlucky day. The crab is
home, and out comes Tiny like a bullet from
a gun, and makes for deep water. Back
goes the big ’un to finish his lunch. But in
Mudland we are like gods, so we interfere
with the laws of nature, chase the bully away
and give his weaker brother a snack. Then
the tide comes creeping in, and we beat a
retreat for the shore. Nature is boss after-
all.
* * * *
“Esau”: “So keen is the sight of an
eagle,” says the schoolbook, “that it can see
an object on the ground while a mile high
in the air.” That’s a circumambient and
vague statement, but I doubt it, no matter
how it may be interpreted. Sitting one day
on the eastern slope of the New England
hills (N.S.W.), I observed a speck in the
blue. Before me was a grassy flat mined
with rabbit burrows. It was the grassy flat
that the eagle had been looking for, for it
began to. circle down to its hunting-ground
When within a couple of hundred yards ot
the flat it stopped circling and poised, its
wings outstretched and vibrating. I re-
mained motionless, watching the great
yellow-head eaglehawk, for such it was. A
movement in the grass below took its atten-
tion. Suddenly it folded its wings and dived
head first down to within a hundred feet
of the ground. There it poised for a second
to observe the cause of the movement. Again
it dived, and all was over in a second. So
well timed and so accurate were its move-
ments that it fell within six inches of the
ground before opening its wings, and in the
same instant it gripped the rabbit by the
back with both talons and shot up in an
arc without touching the ground. It rose
to the highest branch of the tree, against
which I rested. I shot it, as it commenced
to fly on observing my quick movement. The
bird was between eight feet and nine feet
from wing-tip to wing-tip.
❖ * ❖ sj:
“E.K.P.”: In addition to their knowledge
of mechanics and natural history, spiders
are keen students of meteorology. To get
a reliable weather forecast for next day
study a spider just before sunset. If there
is going to be heavy weather eight legs will
be busy shortening the numerous strands
that are used to fasten the w r eb to its moor-
ings, just as a sailor hauls in ropes. If the
strands are allowed to remain long the day
will be fine.
* * * * .
“Kieta”: E. W. Chinnery, Government
Anthropologist for Mandated New . Guinea,
has, in a recent report, been lamenting the
tendency of the converted heathen to enforce
theological points at the point of the. spear.
The trouble' has risen from the fact that
there are five and forty ways of finding
salvation in New Guinea, and, as elsewhere,
every exponent of each of them is convinced
that his is the right one. Add to this the
haphazard methods of the Administration in
permitting rival missions to fight each other,
as well as the Deuce, for possession of
the same soul, and it will easily be seen that'
there are rare opportunities for an evangel-
istic Donnybrook. Wise old William Mac-
gregor foresaw this long ago when he was
laying down the foundations of what is now
Papua. He confined each sect within a
wowser-tight compartment. Within its
boundaries each could harry the hosts of
Apollyon as much as it pleased, but no one
could pursue the Fiend into anyone else’s
territory without running the risk of losing
his license, so to speak.
MURRUMBIDGEE JOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He stopped me where the creek turns west
towards the river trees.
He made the worn, age-old request, “A fill
o’ ’baccy, please” ;
And added, “Don’t think me a pest —life’s
tough in times like these.
“W’en I first lumped it on the track ’way
back in ’ninety-three
Each ’ouse we went to meant a snack to
wanderin’ coves- like me ;
It ’urts a man ; w’en ’e looks back to wot
things useter; f be.
“The fellers on the roads these days ain’t
got no pride l at all.
The good old open-’anded ways ’ave gone
beyondreca.ll.
An’ we ’oo ’ad the track to blaze is lookin’
pretty small.
“The dam’ perfession’s' failing fast. Aw,
cripes ! I’ve even seen
A deadbeat with a bag go past with shoes
all shiny-clean !
’E wouldn’t, share a smoke —’is last, ’e said.
I thought it mean.
“They tell me that they’re city blokes ’oo
can’t get work nowhere,
The down-an’-outs, the stony-brokes; an’ yet
the rotters dare
To cadge me food an’ ’um me smokes —w’en
I ’ave none to spare.
“They’ve spoiled me beat—it’s no use now.”
He gave a tired shrug,
And passed my ’baccy back. “Some cow
would p’raps call me a mug.”
He left —I wouldn’t, anyhow. He’d taken
half my plug.
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINLAY


Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
TAP.TAI PAm TI ?m RISED CAPITALi *12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP **•««..„ £4 739 nio m n
RESERVE FUND 4300000 0 X
RESERVE CAPITAL $39,0?“ ll 0
, £13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
Hon. JAMES JAMES WILLIAM
EDWARD H RITCH f I! L SwX VD " ™ EN
General Manager: J. R. DRYHDRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street EC 3
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and at Canberra
fc ederal Terntory, Agencies throughout Australia and NeW Zealand? and all other parSof
the world.
CA rr ncoriciT 0f uTni W ing ? nd Excha . n * e Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Chemist Tells Recipe for
Family Cough Remedy.
HELP people save money.
Here s a recipe, given by a leading chemist,
that will enable people to make the best
lamily cough remedy, and at the same time
save much money. Everybody knows that a
good cough and influenza remedy consists of
two main sections :
The first section is the undiluted medicinal
ingredients; and the second is, of course, the
necessary water and sweetening. The prepara-
tion of the medicinal ingredients requires
trained knowledge, but the water and
sweetening can be added in the home just as
easily as in the pharmacy. And you save a
lot of money by doing so. Now, prove these
facts by trying this HEENZO recipe: Into
n jug put four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three
of either treacle or honey, two of vinegar,
nnd a large breakfast-cupful of warm water.
Stir till dissolved, and when the syrup is
quite cold pour into a large bottle, and
then add a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
lIEENZO, obtained from your chemist or
store. By doing this you will have a family
supply equal in quantity and superior iii
quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of
the best ready-mixed cough remedy that, if
purchased in the usual way, would cost up to
fl. An outstanding feature about HEENZO
is the fact that it is a safe remedy for
babies as well as adults, and over 12,000
people have written letters proclaiming it
the best remedy they have ever used for
quickly banishing coughs, colds, croup, bron-
chitis and influenza.*
SMOKE-OH!
Sydney Communists are letting their feel-
ings run riot.
* *
The Harbor City’s glorious heritage will
be much over-rated if the Greater Sydney
scheme goes through.
MAN’S INHUMANITY TO MOSQUITOES.
MR. MOSQUITO: “ That chap seems to be getting his money’s
worth out of his new mosquito-net”
MRS. DITTO: “Yes; he’s put me in a very awkward position, too.
I've invited a ferc friends to dinner."
There is a definite resemblance between the
chaiactenstics of the Bolshevists and their political
doctrines. — “S. M. Herald.”
There is : neither will wash.
“Floods at Ararat.”— “Aryus.”
And the “Argus" calls it news!
Americans have a weakness for banning things.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
And they’re proud of it. Why, their most
popular institution is a star-spangled banner !
NOTES from training camps.
O’Reilly’s Work-outs.
Oye.s (“Censor”) O’Reilly is doing his
stuff as usual at “mine hostess” Grundy’s
home-f ropi-home, “The Wowser’s Rest.” His
backers say he has gained in confidence
since lus recent hollow win over Young
Slieikey, the Hollywood Flapper-killer. The
cognoscenti regard “Censor’s” sliort-arm
digs to nude torsos as masterly, and when
it comes to exposed thighs—well, to
realise what he is capable of in that direc-
tion you want to see the kid in action. He
never misses. Cres executes his digs, by
the way, with an ordinary fountain-pen,
delivering them in the right place In the
torm of ukases, after the old Czarist model.
Ihe champ, shadow-spars at Mrs. G’s
theatrette from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
A llarborside Camp.
, a dark horse of a punishing
tile down at the Customs House. Bald as
Rob Fitzsimmons, toothless as Jem Mace,
and the possessor of a cleft palate and fallen
arches, he certainly doesn’t look the up-and-
coming scrapper the record books show him
t 0 be. He was first glimpsed in action in a
prelim, with “Poesy” Gellert—a grudge fight
over some photos which the Customs House
fiui was said to have pinched. “Poesy ” who
packs a snappy ode in either mitt, aiid’comes
across betimes with a stinging rondel <mt
a points verdict, the ref. ordering the return
of the photos. The latter were shortly after-
vards displayed for the delectation of fans
in Gellert s old Bond-street “Home ” Fo 1 -
lowed the Norm (“Redheap”) Lindsav
match, which the watersider won in short
order by the k.o. route. There were bitter
protests from the Springwood veteran’s
corner, and howls of execration from
aesthetes, male and female, in the bleachers
who wore vine leaves in their hair for the
most part, and might
well have done in the
winner had he not
been under police
protection. Most of
this boy’s training
(8.15 a.m. and 6.32
P-m.) transpires in
an outer suburb, of
which he is the lead-
ing pansy-culturist.
Piiillip-street’s
Purity Hope.
In the intervals of
protecting Premier
Lang and Jock Gar-
den from their sup-
porters, police fans
are turning hopeful
eyes on their new
heavyweight. II i s
strength is pheno-
menal. Sufliceit to say
that he picked up an
entire edition of
“Art in Australia”
last month, and
walked off with it as
though it had been
a vest-pocket De-
cameron. The force’s
White Flower, or
Purity Hope (chris-
tened “Aussie’s
Moral Camera” by
a prominent gossip-
hound), is noted
chiefly for his un-
expectedness. Yo u
never know what he
will do next, or
ivhen, or why. He is
quite likely to out a
„ . mid-Victorian daguer-
ieotype of a ballet-girl and let a Salon figure-
study (1931 model) go soathless. After he has
cleaned up the local talent his backers mean
to have him taught to read and write, and
send him after the overseas masters in the
public galleries and libraries. Bill Shak-
speare, the Avon Wonder, is - expected to
•1 .fr.iSE'm sto PPing, and then there are
wily Old Testament, “Dean” Swift, and a
host of tough R.A.'s and A.R.A.’s. The kid
should be busy in the coming years, but the
hopes of Ins stable run high. “We’re capable
of stopping pretty well anything,” they
argue. \so why shouldn’t he?”
* * 10 - 2 - 4 -
“Defendant, deliberately removed her clothes in a
public park.”
As the weather reports say, a cool change
* * °
“What is Mr. Lang’s star turn?”— Mr. Bavin..
If you ask us, the bilky way.
PREMIER’S CONFERENCE.
All-round Sacrifices Agreed Upon.
In view of the general financial depression
a conference was called by the Premier and
Treasurer (Mrs. Gloomph) at No. 10
Dahlia-avenue. Present, the Prime Minister
and Treasurer etnd the Misses Annie, Amelia
Susan, Charlotte and Elizabeth Gloomph!
Mr. Gloomph was unavoidably absent at
work.
The P.M. and Treasurer, in her opening-
speech. said that in these parlous times it
CELIBATES.
"This side I keep all my female authors; on that side all my mate
authors.”
“Oh, I see; you have completed your collection.”
was the duty of all to make .sacrifices. The
following resolutions were carried:—
(1) That the services of the jobbing gardener
and window-cleaner be dispensed with. Mr. Gloomph
to do their work.
(2) That the household expenditure on suits, ties,
socks, ovei-coats, pants and shirts be reduced.
(3) That luxuries, such as tobacco and alcoholic
drinks, be cut out. In a stirring speech,. Miss
Amelia Gloomph (president of the local branch of
Young Temperance Crusaders) gave an estimate
showing that the amount now spent by Mr. Gloomph
on beer alone would buy at least a dozen berets
and two new dresses per annum. All must learn to
practise self-denial. (Cheers.)
(4) That cooking be simplified and that one (1)
new tin-opener be purchased to that end.
The conference then broke up, after ex-
pressing its abhorrence of those who were .
reluctant to make sacrifices for the common
weal.
T. P. P>.
What we long for in our
politicians is the. triumph of
mind over chatter.
* *
It was decided at a meet-
ing of the ’Appy Hoptimists
that the first prize in the
society’s annual competition
should be awarded to the
buyer of the “Daily Guar-
dian” for half a million sterl-
ing. No second prize
awarded.
* *
INFLATION.
Inflation had arrived!
Podgers had always feared
it would come upon him
when he was least prepared.
He gazed at his treasure in
grief and perturbation.
What was to be done?
What was it his trusting
wife had recommended? If
only he could think! Infla-
tion. Dreaded inflation!
Suddenly an idea came.
Seizing a cup of warm water
he spooned the liquid be-
tween the toothless gums of
his yelling son and heir.
Hercules I'odgers, aged seven months.
O. W. W.
it v
“Respondent, admitted the change in his affections,
but could give no reason. ” —Divorce report.
Unlike the insulting brute who attributed
the change to the recovery of his reason.
“Herr Schmidt was so enraged by his arrest that
he cut up his trousers and swallowed the greater
part of them.” — “Sun” cable.
Determined to be non-suited, evidently.
* *
THE CHICKS’ CORNER.
Dear Young Guards, —What a wonderful
week, bairnies! Jimmy Woodser has been
promoted to captain for picking the pro-
gramme at Randwick. On dit that the family
s.-p. merchant is meditating felo de sc.
Pleased to hear from little Gladys Binge.
So the cocktail party
was a sozzle, Glad!
Long may the grand
old slogan “Mix ’em
strong!” be emblaz-
oned across the milk-
white banner of our
Young Guardesses.
Twelve marks to
Bluey Buster (aged
nine) for his dis-
cerning essay on
M a r i e Stopes’s
“Married L o v e.”
Billy Slick drops me
a note just to say
that the Australian
girl is no more pos-
sessed of “It” than
a water-melon. Now.
now, Billy, that’s
not like a Young
Guard.
What a dis-
appointment I have
for you all this
week. There isn’t a
new book out that I
can recommend. But
cheer up, chickabid-
dies. They tell me
a real snifter yarn is
scorching the presses
even as I indite these
few lines. And will
your Auntie fail
you? A thousand
times. No.-—Yours to the last bottle. Auntie
Pippin.
McM.
v *
“Owing to the Australian Squadron’s base being
at Sydney, its Melbourne visits are infrequent.”
— Melb. “Herald.”
The only remedy seems to be to run more
Melbourne Cups.
¥ #
AIR-MINDED.
The airman paused at Karachi for a wing of
chicken.”— “Sun.”
Here’s one who truly loves the air,
And things that thoughts of flying bring.-
When dining, with an hour to spare.
You’ll find him still upon the wing.
* *
“The day is fast approaching when industry will
take a leaf from the surgeon’s notebook.”
-—Melb. “Herald.”
As a matter of fact, it lias already made
some painful cuts.
REASSURING.
“'Scuse me if I hurry, sir, but the boss won’t let me
cut hair, and I got to get it done somehow before
he comes back.”
.‘‘ D ® an J nge prophesies that in a.d. 3000 there
will be no lawyers.”— “Herald.”
And this is the man they call the Gloom v
Dean! 1
* #
“He realised that the day had come.”
— £< World’s News . ”
It suddenly dawned on him.
MIRACLES.
That miracles are out of date
Is, sure to those devoid of gumption
i nd who are sceptics obdurate,
A quite untenable assumption.
Exempli gratia, Reuben Prowse,
By seven sawbones labelled hopeless,
A ow sings and dances round the house,
Rejuvenated, and yet dopeless.
Bitales ( eighteen-pence
Adi chemists) loosed his bonds arthritic.
His* grateful written evidence
Confutes the most determined critic.
Item, George Pendlebury Drew,
Obesity was once his trial,
Aow scales a handy nine stone two,
He simply took a daily phial
Of Woozcr’s Tonoformic Wine—
(Free samples sent on application).
o more does G. P. Drew repine;
Soon he’ll enjoy emaciation.’
I welve articles and stories eight
(Paid on acceptance) swelled the income
Of Ezra Aloysius Tait,
Whose unsolicited and dinhum
Sworn affidavit may be seen
At Bunkum’s journalistic College.
IVo previous exp. required to glean
{’Three gs. a term) this priceless know-
ledge.
WAWHERESH.
METAMORPHOSIS.
“The leader of the Federal Opposition, who is
usually one of the best-tempered men in the House,
"as annoyed that his remarks had be.en deliberately
misconstrued.”— “Sun.”
A lthough it’s usual to see
A smile adorn his cheerful phis.
Reflecting geniality
As he conducts the nation’s bis •
lie always gets extremely sore
And irritably starts to rail —
In fact lie has been heard to roar —
When critics twist the Lyons talc!
S. W. K.
FASHION’S PROBLEMS.
“Are you dressing yourself as you think you are,
or as you really may b eT—Melb. “Sun-Pictorial.”
Oh! Am I dressing as I am, or as you think
I amt
Perhaps [ am, although mature,- ensembled
like a baby?
My silhouette’s gone phut, I know—l
wouldn’t care a damn
If l could only know I am, instead of
what I may he.
JUMPING JOAN.


Announcing
FLEXIFOR T
I
as
V
%
i
!K
m
m
w
m
ss
It
y
►Jew
•X...
*o*
«>
!E3
"v
CO
G^-"
*
%
<uV
o*
n
%
Si
V
wVa
&
ft
I
f*y
s,
■ t ♦‘K^v
“Ilf
y»\
jf
ë
FLEXIFORT —the latest product of Dunlop-
Perdriau—incorporates over 25 years’ tyre-
building experience in Australia. It is
backed by the standard Dunlop-Perdriau Tyre
warranty, and offers value far in excess of its
Amazing Low Price.
The, Flexifort is a handsome tyre of ebony-
black rubber, with an encircling white line. The
heavy hexagon, non-slipping tread is supported
by sturdy, double buttresses for hard wear. Ask
your dealer to explain the advantages of this
hexagon, flat-traction tread, how it gives added
road contact, more positive traction and slow,
even wear —how the double buttressed walls
protect the tyre under all conditions and add to
its mileage.
The Flexifort tread is double pressed to give
extra wearing quality. The casing conforms to
the same high standards as Dunlop and Perdri&u
Tyres, each cord being tested for strength,
resiliency and tension. It has ample reserve to
withstand any load, speed or strain of car or
truck service. The low prices now announced
are only possible because of the present record
low price of rubber. Therefore, make your
purchase of Flexifort Tyres immediately.
Stocks are now available at all garages and
tyre dealers.
DUNLOP-PERDRIAU
FLEXIFORT


sdf
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILE
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to: —
e% PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJ AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Pell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, comer Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. As
m
*
Cfif
9o
Save, earn interest
and
Start saving now with the
P.P.B.—it pays you interest
on current accounts.
Have a Bank Account —Keep it
Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS
BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Common weal tli and at London.
dsf
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
BLOWFLY-PROOF SHEEP.
“Azac” : While there seems very little hope
of ever finding a specific that will adequately
protect sheep against blowfly attack, experi-
ments carried out during the last three years
have brought to light the interesting fact
that some sheep are more susceptible to fly
attack than others. What is more valuable,
it has been proved that non-susceptibilty or
susceptibility to fly attack is transmitted
from ewe to lamb. I can hear many old
sheepmen say “I told you so”; I know of
many of them who years ago refused to have
anything to do with the Vermont breed,
which they contended was more subject to
fly attack than any other breed. However,
they had no evidence with, which to back
up their contention. It remained for Dr.
11. R. Seddon, of Glenfield Veterinary Re-
search Station, and his co-workers to prove
tliat wrinkling of the breech was the chief
factor predisposing to blowfly attack.
This fact established, the experimental flock
was divided, according to conformation, into
groups considered to be _ non-susceptible,
partly suscc.ptible and definitely susceptible
to blowfly attack. Figures kept over a
period of two years showed not only that it
was possible to predetermine which sheep
would be likely to escape the fly trouble, and
which would he most badly struck, but also
that the susceptibility of the_ susceptible
group ranged from three to 171 times as
great as that of the non-susceptible group,
Breeding experiments with the pre-seleeted
groups proved that the progeny of non-sus-
ceptibles were less disposed to fly attack
than the progeny of the other groups, thus
proving the inheritance of susceptibility to
blowfly attack.
These experiments point the way to per-
haps the most promising means of limiting
the losses due to blowflies that research
workers have discovered since investigational
work on this pest first commenced. By
breeding and rigid culling, with the object
of eliminating all but the plain-breeched
animals, the grazier should be able to reduce
his losses materially.
AUSTRALIAN OIL FOR BLOWFLIES.
From Mr A. R. Penfold, curator of the
I echnological Museum, Svdney:—
Touehiug “Margosa Oil for Blowflies” (B. 3/6/’3l),
I can appreciate your position in furnishing an
account of this oil, but desire to point out that
arc Australian oil, cqu.vateut efficiency. A.
you are aware, Margosa oil is obtained from a tree
native to India, and naturally the oil would need
to be imported or else produced from trees to be
cultivated in Australia.
I do not question the claims made for Margosa
oil, but think the time is opportune for attention
to be directed to the value of the oil of the broad-
leafed peppermint, Eucalyptus dives. It is at least
equivalent to, if not superior to, Margosa oil, judging
by the information in the possession of this insti-
rution. Graziers for many years past have used a
mixture of equal parts of Eucalyptus dives and
castor oils with considerable success. There are also
excellent proprietary lines on the market based upon
the use of this eucalyptus oil. There is probably
scope for improvement in these lines. What is
required is a more efficient fixative which will hold
the essential oil for a more prolonged period.
I need not labor the question of the advantage
of giving preference to an Australian product, and
trust you will see your way to direct attention to
the importance and value of Australian oils.
RETURNS FROM FAT LAMBS.
“Golightly” : I don’t ngreo with “T.X.0."
&.-3S i-LAtS? iazrts
continue over a number of years there will
be a swing-over to production of fat lambs
that will make our oversea competitors
sit up.
Also “T.X.O.’s” statement that our large
areas and uncertain seasons are impediments
is moonshine. The Carrathool-Hay district
(N.S.W.) has such supposed drawbacks, yet
farmers from there supply the Melbourne
and Sydney markets with large numbers of
prime sucker lambs that bring top prices,
Because big totals of the right types of
export lambs are not produced in Aus-
tralia, that does not say they can never
be produced; it only indicates that sheep-
farming for the fleece alone has been more
inviting.
As to fat lambs not paying at present prices,
consider my last season’s returns, the worst
I ever got. Marked 81 per cent.; 12 weeks
i? ter s °hJ 76 Per cent, at Sydney saleyards,
netted 11s. Id. per head. Their
[nothers clipped ss. Bd. per head net. Thus
am t> s and ewes wool averaged 14s.
P/,' r ewe - Phis on land bought m 192:i at
P® r acre • carr ymg ca P? clt s r qon ne a
Quarter acres per ewe. My 1929 season s
returns were about double the foregoing,
1 admit , that woolgrowing alone has led
■. s^e epnien to overstock a s^ or f‘
sl »ht e d and cruel policy, and one fatal to
sllceess in fat-lamb production.
ANOTHER USE FOR SHEEP?
“Jayenne” : Strange that in a land respon-
sible for the development of the merino and
the Corriedale our sheepbreeders and stud-
masters have not given a bit of thought to
the glueing of another purpose on a dual-
purpose animal. The sheepman is satisfied
to-day to rear lambs for meat or wool, or for
mothering more lambs, essentially a process
designed to produce wool and meat. But
wliat of the ewe as a milk-produeer?
I can remember the howl of joy that greeted
a Hungarian traveller who looked across a
fertile South Westralian valley and spoke
to a little group—cookies with heavy mort-
gages and a superior sense of the ridiculous,
In his broken English he expressed surprise at
the failure of the local farmer to provide him-
self with milch sheep in a country peculiarly
adapted for intense culture and hand-feeding.
Coming from a continent where the peasant
with 10 to 20 acres hand-weeds his cereal
patch and gets 80 or 90 bushels of wheat
to the acre, uses his dogs to pump water
and turn the churn, and milks every herb-
ivorous animal ho can bail up, the Hun-
garian had reason for being astonished,
Yes, our cookies laughed at the foreigner
who suggested the development of the sheep
as a producer of butter and cheese, besides
wool and mutton. Perhaps the Hungarian
would laugh at their plight now. Can’t we do
with our sheep, as they are at present, what
has been done with those runty little Spanish
sheep imported by Macarthur 100 years ago,
but in another direction?
TAR-STAINED WOOL.
, ( m -v- >• n -4. ,
: Des P lte f J hat corres-
Pendents have asserted, there are branding
Preparations on the market which can be
' m 'S " Po " T he S e ar " KstaSV 'Ud in
V , , , , aie SUC e -. us , ,
Queensland, .and the practice of tar-brand-
** shearing time is not so general in
that State as in years gone by.
Unfortunately our butchering interests
a , ie ncd ■ s ° caie ul. Fully 75 per cent, of
* hem adla ‘ rf \, to th( .' old method of tar-brand-
* V lal noi lt.v bland with paint,
Incidentally, the brands are large, letters up
’T ) SIX inches in length being employed, and
t le . se frequently are put on more than once
oAvir )S to tho_ mo\ ernents of the sheep, which
ar e branded ill small yards instead of a race,
U IS hard to understand why tar should
used ou sheep which are being killed in
a pCW days. It appears so patently obvious
that a soluble brand would serve the same
purpose without damaging the skin. . Unfor-
tunately, manutacturers do not discriminate,
and growers as a whole are blamed for the
messy state of tilings which usually exists
after the saleyards brander lias done his
worst. Queensland Department of Agri-
culture and Stock is reported to be taking
i“ P d „*, h dW °
mnD nt>rtoc<TVTn
TOP-DRESSING PASTURE,
“P. Aitcli”: Along the foothills environing
the mountainous districts of north-eastern
Victoria many splendid examples of the
profitable top-dressing of pastures may be
seen. The soil, for the most part, consists
of a reddish-clay loam of a poor type, and the
average annual rainfall is 30 inches. 11l Vic-
toria’s Western District one meets a hungry,
sour, grey-clay loam which is giving splendid
results from top-dressing with super,
Probably the more fertile pasture soils
give the greatest response to top-dressing
with artificial fertilisers, provided always
that average annual rainfall is at least 20
inches. Generally speaking, our most fertile
soils are cultivated, and—in Victoria at any,
rate-—it is an established fact that these
soils do not respond to any noted extent to
manuring with super. Why? Because the
surface foot of soil contains approximately
three tons of phosphoric acid, of which nearly
two per cent, (say, lewt.) is always avail-
able. “Trifolium” (B. 10/6/’3I) refers to a
balance between acidity and alkalinity and
the hydrogen ion concentration as though
they were separate and distinct characteris-
tics or measurements of the soil. They are
one and the same thing.
In a poor soil, texture and hydrogen ion
concentration (the latter has not as yet
kicked many goals in farm practice), to-
gether with deficiencies in lime, phosphoric
acid and nitrogen, are the direct cause of
the soil being poor. An application of super,
will make good the deficiency,in phosphoric
acid, whilst a previous dressing of lime will
satisfy the soil’s wants in this regard and
at the same time improve its texture and
nitrification (i.e., the process whereby the
dormant, inactive nitrogen is made avail-
able). It follows that the top-dressing of
this poor soil should lead to profitable results,
and it does provided the rainfall is all right.
Of course, the basic principle underlying
scientific manuring is the making good of
deficiencies, and a fertile soil should not
show any deficiencies; it should contain
ample supplies of all plant foods—phosphoric
acid included. I have yet to meet with a
soil which, on analysis, shows. an abundance
of phosphoric acid yet is deficient in the
amount of this plant food which is available.
Top-dressing 'of pastures is becoming a
subject of increasing importance to Aus-
tralia, and it is possible that “Trifolium”
had the rotational grazing system in his
mind when writing. This is an entirely dif-
ferent proposition from the rough-and-ready
super, system, which, by its success, is
annually becoming more general and pro-
nounced. I believe soils of the better type
will be exploited in the near future, possibly
most successfully with the nitro-phospho
system associated with subdivision and rota-
tional grazing. In my opinion a poor soil
would not stand up to this treatment, for
tw r o reasons: (1) It would not carry the
cust of the improvements; (2) it w r ould not
have the body so essential to success.
Judging from the results of private field
trials the court of appeal ordains a bright
future for the latter continental system—in
Victoria at all events.
OVER THREE BUSHELS PER INCH.
Mr. M. T. Padbury, president of the
Primary Producers’ Association, has started
a very interesting series of annual competi-
tions in Westralia. He has set aside a sum
of money sufficient to provide a handsome
trophy for the wheat-farmer who gets the
highest acre yield per inch of rainfall during
the recognised growing period. May 1 to
Oct. 31. Crops are to be judged by the
Superintendent of Wheat Farms or some
other Government authority.
The 1930-31 trophy goes to F. A. Williams,
of Mangowine, for a yield of 3 bushels 231 b.
per inch of rainfall. Mangowine is in a
district which not many years ago was
thought to be “too far out” for wheat-
growing, and 3 bushels 231 b. is the best
acre yield on record in the State. Second
place wrns w r on by the brothers Pascoe, of
Yalbarrin, with 3 bushels 141 b. per inch of
rainfall; third place by H. J. Hoggarty, of
Erikin, 2.51 bushels.
WORKING NEW MALLEE LAND.
“Wilwin”: Many farmers in sandy dis-
tricts make a mistake in ploughing new land
before the rain. If new land is left until
the wet season sets in, and then ploughed
and drilled, better crops would result; it
might be better still to run it over once with
the combine. In working it up before the
rain you spoil your seed-bed, and it will
take years for the land to settle down firmly.
A few years ago I ploughed and drilled 50
acres, on my West Coast (S.A.) holding
and got a good rain on it the day it was
finished; I put another 50 acres in after
the rain, again following the plough with the
drill. The latter piece yielded six bushels
more per acre than the former.
GETTING PIGS TO MARKET.
“R.G.” : Many farmers who live some dis-
tance from their bacon factory have trouble
getting their pigs to market. To hire a
lorry is too expensive—l have known it to
cost ss. a pig—and a trip in a cart or dray
for 10 miles or more generally means milk-
ing in the dark. The difficulty has been
overcome in the Dorrigo (N.S.W.) distinct
by building trailers. On pig day the grunter
is loaded into the trailer, hooked on behind
the family car, and delivered in quick time.
For any cow-cocky who cares to follow
this idea, here are the necessary particulars :
You need, first, front axle, wheels and
spring, preferably from an old Ford. Bolt
plates on to the stub axles to keep them
rigid. The body comes next. If you are
using a light car don’t build the body too
big, as it is a temptation to overload. Using
an 18-h.p. car I built the trailer body 4ft.
x 4ft. 6in.; this gives room enough for three
prime pigs, and is a comfortable load for
the ’bus. When fastening the spring and
axle on the body, bolt it 4in. back from
centre, so that the weight will be on the
car. The job can be completed for less than
f 10; registration is £1 per year.
An alternative to buying old Ford parts
is to buy wheels that will take the same size
tyre as your car. First cost is a bit more,
but using the old tyres from the car makes
it cheaper in the long run.
RAISING PORKERS.
“Ruffy”: James Gleeson, of Heatherton,
near Melbourne, is showing what can be
done in the way of making a good living on
a small holding. He has 12£ acres divided
into a dozen paddocks; these are supplied
by water from the Yan Yean, and each has
a galvanised-iron shed 20ft. x 10ft. Mr.
Gleeson has 30 breeding sows and six boars.
Rather better than once a week there is a
litter of young pigs, and usually there are
about 200 pigs of varying ages at a time.
The young ones are ready as porkers at
about 16 weeks; they are slaughtered at
the Oakleigh abattoirs for a pork butcher’s
round. Mr. Gleeson is using pure-bred Berk-
shires for breeding, and finds they make the
best of porkers. He is discarding other sows
and replacing with pure Berkshires. The
sties are concreted, with boarded floors in
the sleeping quarters ; they are flushed with
water and sprayed with kerosene-phenyl
daily.
“Tai M.”: Touching this argument about
the respective merits of Large Whites and
Tam.-Berks, for porkers, I am assistant
pig-grader in a Maoriland freezing concern,
and perhaps you will let me butt in. If the
grower’s sole object is the production of a
good-quality baconer, the Large White is
excellent; but if a good export porker is
needed, the Tam.-Berk, strain is ideal. It
is obtained by mating a pure Berk, boar with
a pure Tammy sow ; the sow pigs of this
litter are then mated with a pure Berk,
boar —result, a large and thrifty litter which,
if treated well, will kill out between 701 b.
and 901 b. at the age of three months or less.
This is the popular porker weight in England
to-day. Do not mate Tam.-Berk. sows with
Tam.-Berk boars, or your herd will degener-
ate into runts. The disadvantage of the
Large White as a porker is that liis frame
develops faster than he can put flesh and
fat on it; when killed the carcase is leggy in
appearance and wrinkly on back and loins,
thereby spoiling the quality for export. On
the other hand, the Tammy-Berk, porker has
fine bone, nicely-rounded legs, not too fat.
with the back smooth and free from wrinkles.
Another advantage of this strain is that if
the pork market slumps the Tam.-Berk. can
be fattened up into a first-quality baconer.
TO LIFT A PROSTRATE HORSE.
“Tumbe Munda”: Get three rails, each
about 12ft. to 14ft. long, bore a 4in. hole
through the small ends, thread through this
a piece of stout wire and securely lash it
round the rails, thus forming a tripod. Erect
this over the horse giving the rails a good
spread about 40 degrees from the perpen-
dicular. Sink the end of each pole two or
three inches in the ground. Use a rope about
30ft. long and lin. thick, and double.
Get the horse propped up on his chest,
place the double end of rope as far under
him as you can, about 6in. behind the bris-
ket, fold two bags into rolls and place one
out from his ribs, the other from his elbow.
Grasp the head and pull him over on to the
bags. This will enable you to grab the rope
and pull it through. Now prop him again
on his chest, and with a bowline knot tie
the rope above the backbone so that it is
a fairly tight loop around his body, about 6in.
behind the girth. This is important, for if
it is further forward the horse will just
swing and not be able to gain a footing.
Now loop a single line of rope from the knot
above his back, so' that it passes round in
front of his breast, and bring it back again
to the knot. Take another line and from
the same knot pass it under his hindquarters.
Push it well under and pull as tight as you
can, bringing it back to the knot. This line
must be tight; it does not matter if the body
line is drawn a bit out of the perpendicular
as long as the slope is towards the tail. Now
fix the hook of your block into the top of the
body line and haul away.
With an endless chain one man can lift
a draught horse, but if it is just block and
tackle, spread the legs of your tripod a bit
more and hook a horse on to the rope.
LADDERS,
“Mulyan”: An important item on every
farm is the ladder. The common plan is to
nail pieces of batten on the side-pieces; but
this sort of ladder is only a makeshift. If
soon gets ricketty, and after a little use it
is never safe. When the cross-pieces are let
into slots, the thing is safer, neater and lasts
longer; still, it is not nearly as good as the
ladder made with rungs, driven into bored
holes in the side-pieces. This takes longer
(Continued on page 26.)


YOU CAN PAY LESS, BUT YOU CANNOT GET
BETTER VALUE THAN
THIRTY- SIX- TEN
UPPERS OF THE
BEST RED KIP. DURABLE,
WATER-RESISTING.
THE FAMOUS
MILITARY LAST.
sdf
STRONGLY
REINFORCED
BACKS.
. THREE DECKER
SOLE, STITCHED,
SCREWED & SLUGGED.
THE FINEST WORKING BOOT MADE
Fashioned of the Finest Red Military Kip, Soled with our
own “Granite” Bark Tanned Butt Soles, it will outwear
ALL inferior articles in which Quality of Material and
Workmanship are sacrificed to make them low in price.
AN IMPERIAL BRAND PRODUCT.
SOLD BY SHOE STORES EVERYWHERE .
MADE BY
JOHNSON & SONS
BRISBANE.
(Wholesale Only.)
REDUCE YOUR PETROL COSTS
Instal a “BARNES PATENT TOM THUMB FILLING STATION.”
An entirely new method of emptying drums of Petrol, Kerosene,
Oil, etc., with the aid of air pressure. A few strokes of an ordinary
tyre pump will ensure a steady flow. Tap can be padlocked when
not in use. Quick, Safe and Economical.
PRICES:
OUTFIT
(as illustrated)
/- delivered.
(Postage paid to nearest post office).
EXTRAS:
Small Padlock 17-
Motor Tyre Pump ... 5/-
(Plain)
Or Motor Tyre Pump . 7/6
(fitted with acorn connection and clip to
hold, pump on drum.)
Packing and Postage on Tyre
Pumps 1/- extra.
Descriptive leaflets on application.
Attach pump here.
I
im
m
NOTE.—The price of the outfit was advertised in last week’s
“Bulletin” at 40/-, but owing to increased factory costs it has been
found necessary to increase the price as above.
Barnes Outfits are fully guaranteed and are of the finest material
and workmanship.
Supplies may be obtained through all Merchants.
F. J. T. BARNES,
Sole Patentee and Manufacturer.
Factory Representatives:
CROUCH, CONNAH & GORDON, LTD.,
19-25 Makerston Street, Brisbane.
Stump Jump Disc
Cultivating Ploogh
mm
VjMK
m
m
• ■
n
- V
*
M
.
ggg
mm
•v
8®8?
.
as
■
m
IsffiSSSsS
gg
%
lit
*
i
imm
Unexcelled for work in
Yankee grubbed country
and amongst Mallee stumps.
10-Disc Size cuts 5 feet
14-Disc Size cuts 7 feet
Deals effectively with Paddymelon,
Stinkwort and other heavy weed
growths.
Supplied with Team Levers, or with
Forward Levers for Tractor use.
The Sundercut has a greater sale in
Australia than has any other disc
implement.
It works successfully in any type of
country, amongst stumps and stones,
in hard-set fallow, in virgin Mallee
soils, and in fallow rank with weeds.
The alternate 20-inch and 18-inch
discs are set with undercut, a factor
that greatly reduces draught. Also,
the varying throw of the different-
sized discs leaves the surface of the
soil in that granular state wherein most
benefit is derived from rainfall and
atmospheric conditions.
The discs cut a level bottom.
The Differential Cog Jump allows a
high jump without increase of draught.
FARMERS!
Write for Catalogue of all Sunshine Manufactures and List of Reduced Prices
H. V. McKay Massey Harris Pty., Ltd.
Sunshine Harvester Works,
Sunshine.
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street
West, Sydney. 95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS (QLD.), LTD.,
Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


HB
:
Hiw
m *
,
The best calf
Only the finest calf, glossy and
pliant, is used for the upper of
this broad-welted Abbey Shoe.
Its sole is extra strong and of
uniform thickness from toe to
heel. There’s no thinning under
the instep. That alone guaran-
tees longer wear.
The handsome upper, too, is
built on a special Abbey last,
and is shaped to curve over the
instep arch. No straining or
tightness when laced. . . .the fit
is perfectly natural.
Postal Orders: Narrow, medium
and wide fittings are available in
all full and half sizes. Specify
J width and order, also, a supply
of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d. per tin), or a handy clean-
ing outfit (2/6).
Dark Tan Calf . . 48/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.
SYDNEY
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS.’’ SYDNEY.
FPL 235
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
auote you price for the original.
EOTHEN'
PAYING GUESTS
12S East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
[■ GARAGE
Inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
•** Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
ē
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
DID YOU SEE IT?
Just 12 months ago I inserted an advertisement in this column. It was a call to men of ambition
and initiative to enter a profession where the opportunities are great and the salaries high. At the
previous Local Government Examination, of the 11 men who passed, NINE now hold the responsible
position of Town Clerk. All were my students
THEY saw this advertisement. THEY answered it.
DON'T LET THIS ONE PASS YOU BY Write for my booklet—it will tell you all.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College, Newstead House,
229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. '
Alemite
MS
1
I
m
Prevents
Friction
Without proper lubri-
cation friction cannot
be avoided in springs
—differential—gear
box. —roller bearings,
etc. All these and
other parts of the
modern motor car
must be kept properly
lubricated if friction
is to be avoided.
The ALEMITE Sys-
tem and ALEMITE Lubricants insure perfect lubrication.
Instruct your garage manager to see that your car is
“ALEMITED” every 500 miles. It is a wise precaution always
to carry with you in the car an Alemite Gun and a tin of
Alemite Lubricant for use when away from garages.
ALFMITE CORPORATION « - Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. V.
Or from the follotving Representatives :
BENNETT & WOOD. Lul.
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd.
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd.
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty) Ltd.
CORNELL LIMITED .
. . 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Brisbane
. . 894 Hay Street, Perth
. 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
. 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
K-AUST-B
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
to make, but it is a permanent job, and
therefore the most economical.
The tnost useful length is about 15ft. For
the sides have 3in x If in. Oregon; for the
rungs, hardwood—a little more than an inch
where they get the heaviest wear, and rasped
down at the ends to fit tightly in lin. auger-
lioles. To bore these, lash or tack the two
side-pieces together ; strike a line down the
centre of the flat sides, and mark off for the
rungs, setting them lOin. apart, from centre
to centre. Then bore every second one from
one side, and the others from the opposite
side. This is to avoid a twist in the ladder
if the holes are not bored dead true. Don’t
put rungs at top, bottom and: centre; these
should be 2in. x lin. hardwood, mortised
in, and dowelled at the ends, not nailed.
The rungs do not require fastening, but
dip the ends in paint. Finally give the lad-
der a coat of paint and keep the sides and
ends of rungs painted so that they won’t
work loose when exposed to the weather.
The chief work is making the rungs ; the
best -way is to get or cut pieces ljin. x 1. fin.,
chop down the edges with a tomahawk, and
round off with the rasp.
For a ladder required in the orchard, or
in the paddock for lopping trees, have the
ends of the side-pieces loin, or 18in. above
the top rung, bore a half-inch hole near the
ends, and put in a piece of twisted wire,
having enough curve or dip to fit against
the trunk of a tree. This keeps the ladder
from wobbling or tilting to one side when the
workman is near the top.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(.Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the difference between “inbreed-
ing” and “line-breeding” ?■ —3s7o.
Inbreeding is the mating of related indi-
viduals. It is a practice used by breeders
for concentrating the blood of families pos-
sessing desirable characteristics. Line-breed-
ing is a form of systematic inbreeding in
which an effort is made to keep away from
too close a relationship. It is a system
adopted with the object of minimising the
introduction of new blood, but it is often
accompanied by the occasional judicious in-
troduction of outside blood.
Can station-owners or managers prohibit
people fishing on N.S.W. rivers running
through their property? —4082.
Yes, the right of fishing in the river in
front of his land belongs to the owner.
How to grow chilli? —3840.
Climate and soil requirements are the same
as for tomatoes. The plants should be set
out in rows sufficiently wide to allow of
horse cultivation, about 2ft. apart in the
row. The dwarf red variety is chiefly grown
for red pepper and is sold in flic dry state
to condiment-makers. The large bull-nose
type is usually picked on the green side and
dised for salads. An intermediate type,
which is long, is also largely purchased by
pickle manufacturers.
To what temperature should mushroom
spawn be exposed during incubation. and
how l-ong is the period of incubation ? —3970.
Not exceeding 75deg. F. The brick should
be allowed to incubate for 2 to 3 weeks. An
examination of the bricks for white fungus
threads will enable the correct period to
be determined.
(1) Is banana-growing a profitable indus-
try? (2) Could a living be made on 20
acres? (3) Hooks on the subject? —3B9s.
(1) Fairly profitable on first-class land.
(2) Five acre's under cultivation is sufficient
for one man to work. The life of a planta-
tion in fruit is about five years, conse-
quently 15 acres of suitable land would be
necessary. (3) No standard publications
adaptable to Queensland conditions. A use-
ful pamphlet is issued by the Agriculture
Department, Brisbane.
How should oranges be stored? —3910.
They can be kept fresh for only a limited
period. In cool storage at a temperature of
40deg. they may be kept for about 10 weeks.
Where cool stores are not available, a very
thin coating of para-wax or a light smearing
of vaseline will prolong the keeping qualities
for about the same period, if the fruit is
stored in a fairly well ventilated place and
not subjected to high temperatures.
(1) What are the common names of the
wild peas with purple and yellow flowers
respectively? (2) Which of these is the
Darling pea? (3) Which is the more dan-
gerous to sheep? —3Bs4
(1) SwainsOtna coronillifolia and Swain-
sona lutcola. (2) Swainsona greyana is
familiarly known as “Darling pea,” but the
term is also applied to Swainsona coronilii-
folia and other closely-related species. (3)
All three are dangerous.
What N.S.W. wood is the best for use in
a bush camp-oven from the point of view
of economy and heat-producing? —3B39.
There is no definite data on the question.
On general principles forest oak is as good
as any.
A proportion of the eggs set under my
black Orpington liens fail to hatch out.
The shells seem too hard for the chicks
to get through. Cause? —36B6.
It is unlikely that the shells are too hard.
The hens have evidently not been sitting
closely, or have left the eggs for too long
at one time, in this way retarding incuba-
tion. Or it may be that the conditions under
which the hens were set were not satisfac-
tory, or that parasitic infestation was irri-
tating the birds.
Is “line-breedmg ,, to be recommended in
poultry-raising? —3S2l.
Not practicable in commercial poultry-
raising, as, owing to the comparative short
life of the fowl, the older stock either die
or become impotent by the time they are
required for breeding back, thereby preclud-
ing the following out of systematic mating
without tlig introduction of new blood.
(1) The simplest way to construct an
underground concrete tank? (2) Strength
of mixture? (3) Amount of cement needed?
(4) Measurements to hold 1000 gallons? —
3829.
(1) If the earth will stand it this can be
used as an outside form for either circular
or rectangular tank. Inside forms will, of
course, bo required for any type. In the
case of bad standing ground, reinforcement
would be required. (2) Depends almost
entirely on quality of sand. In general terms
a mixture of 1 cement, 2 sand and 4 of
crushed stone about 1 gauge would be satis-
factory, but there is considerably more in
the mixing and the curing than in the actual
strength of the mixture. (3) Six paper
bags of cement for every cubic foot of con-
crete, for a 1-2-4 mixture. (4) A circular
tank should be made 6ft. diameter and 6ft.
deep. Any other shape or sizes giving
a capacity of 160 cub. ft. would answer.
Write Cement Manufacturers’ Ass’n, .14
Spring-street, Sydney, for free booklet.
HINTS FOR TITE FARM.
“Beady”: Most woolclassers’ tables hold
only a' few fleeces. It is my practice,
before shearing commences, to make with
ordinary rabbit-proof wire-netting a table
large enough, if space is available, to hold
at least a bale of fleeces—two for preference.
This leaves the classer free to move about
the shed attending to the many jobs he has
to oversee, with a safe place for the roller to
put his unclassed fleeces, without fear of
their being torn about. Also, a good accumu-
lation of fleeces before he starts gives him a
better chance of knowing what classes to
make.
“Slybacou”: Sheep pelts make excellent
collar linings. Sore shoulders or collar galls
are generally caused by collars that are too
wide and rock about. If the collar is very
wide use a pelt with wool an inch long—it
may be necessary to put an extra layer of
pelt beneath the outer covering. Stitch pelt,
skin outside, with a packing needle, taking
long stitches under the pipe on front of
collar and through the leather flap at the
rear. A green pelt is easier to handle, but
a dried pelt can be softened overnight by
placing it on the ground, wool side down,
and covering with a wet bag.
“Wilwin”: “Catch the crows and save
your lambs” (B. 6/5/’3l), by all means, but
here is a better way. Erect a wire-netting
trap about 6ft. square (or larger) and 6ft.
high. Cut a cross in* the top, about the
middle; make slits in the netting about 6in.
long and bend the points inward. Place the
inside of your sheep bait just under the
opening. Crows will drop down through
it, but when they spread their wings to fly
out they can’t get back. Crows, when killed,
should be poisoned, as they make good
bait for foxes. My biggest haul was 68 birds
in two hours.
“Paul C.”: What “Mick” (B. 17/6/’3l)
says about leaving the knife, slightly turned,
in the incision till all the gas has escaped
from a blown cow, is all right when you
can do it, such as when you have a cow in
the bail; but a man is sometimes called upon
to act quickly out in the paddock, and on
bullocks or unbroken heifers. In such cases
he cannot keep his knife in till the gas
has escaped; nor do I consider it necessary.
I have never had one beast die as the after
effect of tapping, although I have had to
enlarge the incision so that I could intro-
duce two fingers and thumb to draw out
partially-digested lucerne. In such cases, of
course, stitching the wound and use of an
antiseptic dressing were necessary.
“Floodmark”: In poisoning timber ring
the trees as close to the ground as possible,
cutting well into the sap. Boil 21 gallons
of water to 41b. washing soda and 31b. white
arsenic. Continue to boil slowly but well for
half an hour, stirring; then take it off and
let it stand alongside the fire to keep hot
for a day. Apply hot with an ordinary
watering-can. for which a spout can be made
to taper to an eighth of an inch in diameter.
Round the tree once is sufficient. Keep
sheep off till leaves have dried —about three
months approximately.
“Bill R.” : If nails are used where a shed
is covered with stringybark the sheets will
eventually split, and there will be leakages
in the roof. Lay the bark and cover all the
joints with at least six inches of an overlap.
Then, without any nailing, fasten down the
sheets with stout pole riders, tied horizontally
with wire at the ends to battens that extend
beyond the wall-plates.
“Kingaroy”: Kerosene, recommended by
“Odd Job”' (B. 3/6/’3l) for rusty pipes,
nuts, etc., isn’t in the same street with
vinegar. A nut that will defy you after a
month in kerosene will answer in a few
minutes to a drop or two of vinegar. If
vinegar isn’t available a few minutes in the
fire will sometimes do the job.
“B. Ivnobb”: A spraying machine will
answer small-farm purposes well. Get a
good-sized can with a serewed-on lid, an old
cycle-tube valve and a cycle pump. Fit valve
into a hole made in the screw-cap of can. and
at the. bottom of can pierce a small hole.
To use, unscrew the lid and put in your
solution, replace cap, fix cycle pump to tube
valve and pump away. The liquid will come
out in a fine cloud.
“W. 0.”: The next time ’’Disc Harrow”
(B. 27/5/’3l) is troubled with rats eating
his apples, let him try the trap made of an
oblong piece of board with the spring fas-
tened across the centre, using as bait cooked
bacon-rind with some fat attached. I am not
often bothered by rats, but mice have spoilt
lots of my apples in the past. This year I
have cleaned them up with the small-size
trap referred to.
“U.7D.”: A simple and effective method
of tempering a crowbar after sharpening it.
While the bar is getting hot, make a hole
with another bar about a foot deep—drive
the bar into the same hole several times, and
move it slightly. Fill Avith water two or three
times, and when you have got your bar to
a nice red heat, place it in the hole and pour
Avater over it until cool. A bar treated in this
manner Avill stand up to a tremendous
amount of hard work without losing its edge.
“Booraby”: How about the growing and
canning of sAveet corn as a new industry,
instead of importing the stuff from the
T'.S.A.V I have grown SAveet corn in different
places from Sydney to the northern N.S.W.
border. It will do avcll Avherever satisfactory
results are obtained from ordinary maize.
Cultivating and planting are the same, and
the yield about similar. Of course, there
Avould have to be a local factory, but it
would not be difficult to get a certain number
of farmers on suitable land to undertake to
plant a given area each year if they were
guaranteed a market at a profitable price for
three or four years.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. - <’ - ... . .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Insurance clerk (21), Sydney, six years’ general
exp., wants position. Refs. —-4054.
Gardener (40), English-trained, 18 years’ Aus-
tralian exp., able to take charge of any sized
grounds, wants employment. Refs. —4056.
Foreign gentleman, Sydney, fine physique, seeks
engagement as artist’s model.—4oBB.
Returned soldier, Sydney, no means and in delicate
health, requires light work until strong enough to
tackle heavier tasks. —4101.
Englishman (26), W.A., four years’ exp. farm
work, wants employment.—4l2o.
Telephonist, Sydney, six years’ exp., shipping and
business firms, wants employment.—4l26.
Station manager (32), N.S.W., married, exp. of
large and small stations, western N.S.W. and S.A.,
wants employment. Refs. —4149;
Civil servant and wife will give fortnight’s holiday
to two at Sydney harborside home in return for
holiday in country home end July. Refs. —4137.
Lady, Sydney, would give motor holiday or con-
veyance in car for business trip in return for pay-
ment of registration, £7, due August.-—4154.
1914 volunteer, Q’land, exp. station work, book-
keeping, etc., wants job on station or in Islands.
—4158.
Bachelor’s servant (30), Sydney, ex-naval man,
cook, butler, valet, licensed car-driver, wants posi-
tion.—4l7B.
To buy Searcy’s “In Austral Tropics.”—4l72.
To borrow or buy Helen Mathers’s “Jock o’ Hazel-
dean” and “The Lovely Malincourt.” —4123.
Words of verses “The Football Referee,” “The
Man from Ironbark” and “The Man from Snowy
River.”—4l22.
Information Sought.
What Australian exploration took place
in 1831?—4038.
This was an active period of exploration
in Westralia, where settlement had recently
begun. Ensign Dale examined the country 50
miles to north and to south of Mt. Bake-
well. Captain Bannister overlanded from
Perth to King George’s Sound. W. K. Shen-
ton explored the Collie River. J. G. Bussell
crossed from the Swan River to Pt. Augusta
(S.A.). In N.S.W. Surveyor-General Mit-
chell set out to investigate the mythical
Kindur River, finding instead the lower
courses of , the Darling’s great tributaries
in northern N.S.W.
(1) What action does Nature take when
petrifying objects? (2) Is it a matter of
time? (3) Has any large animal been
found petrified? —3s96.
(1) Mineral matter is deposited from
solution, replacing the organic material,
which is converted into stone. (2) The pro-
cess may take thousands of years, but under
favorable conditions may be very rapid. (3)
The bones of the largest of animals, the
dinosaurs, some of which attained a length
of about 80ft., have been found petrified.
Soft tissues decompose too rapidly to allow
them to be preserved in this way.
(1) What variety is the Maoriland
mako shark, and what is its appearance?
(2) Do oar fish belong to Australian waters,
and what are their distinguishing charac-
teristics ? —3624.
(1) It is regarded as identical with the
blue-pointer of N.S.W. ( Isuropsis mako).
It is characterised by a more acutely tapered
snout than most other sharks, by promi-
nent keels along each side of the base of
the tail, and by awl-shaped teeth with
smooth edges. (2) Yes. They grow to a
length of 20ft., with a long, tapering body,
flattened from side to side, the dorsal
fin extending along the whole length. Just
behind the head the dorsal fin is extended
to form long filaments.
Can a ratepayer demand that a N.S.W.
municipal council furnish , information from
council records regarding charges levied on
property? —3Bll.
Section 215 of the N.S.W. Local Govern-
ment Act provides that any elector may at
the council’s ■ office inspect the books of
account... .without fee; and Section 217
provides a penalty not exceeding £lO against
any member or servant of a council not
permitting such inspection.
(1) What school of painting did Paul
Gauguin belong to? (2) Brief sketch of his
life?— 3997.
(1) Post-impressionist. (2) Born in
Paris in 1848; father a Breton, mother a
Creole. After being cabin-boy, then bank
clerk, he began painting at 30, influenced by
Pissarro, chiefly, and Cezanne. In 1891 he
settled in Tahiti with a native wife, con-
tinuing to paint. In his work he aimed at
the simplicity of primitive art. He died
in 1903.
What procedure do I have to adopt to take
out a bill of sale in N.S.W.? (2) Its effects?
7), S' an a pM of sale he made in favor of a
child or children? (4) Cost? (5) Does a
bank overdraft prevent a person making a
mil of sale on plant and furniture? —3925.
(1) A form can be purchased from any
law stationer for 6d. (2) It is an assign-
sien5 ien . t °f personal chattels. (3) No. (4)
I robably £1 would cover it. The bill, to have
rull legal effect, should be registered. (5)
C°t if they are no part of the security cover-
ing the bank’s advance.
(1) llow are J-udges of the N.S.W.
Supreme Court appointed? Salary, term of
office, etc.? (2) Sdme information regard-
ing Judges of the District Court? (3) How
are magistrates appointed f—3999.
Tj> y the Governor on the advice of the
Executive Council. No person may be
appointed unless he is a barrister of five
years standing. He holds office “during
good behavior” until the age of 70 at a
salary fixed 'by statute—Chief Justice,
£3500 p.a.; each puisne Judge, £2600. He
may be removed from office by the Crown
on the address of both Houses of Parlia-
ment. (2) Any barrister of five years’
standing or attorney of seven years’ stand-
ing may be appointed. Such persons hold
office during ability and good behavior at a
salary of £l5OO p.a. They may be removed
from the office by the Governor, subject to
appeal to the Goyernor-in-Council. (3)
Magistrates are appointed from among mem-
bers of the Public; Service unless it is certi-
fied by the Public Service Board that no
member of the service is suitable and avail-
able. Persons so ' appointed must have
attained the age of 35, and have passed a
prescribed examination in law.
The cheapest source of obtaining retarded
lily-of-the-valley pips? —3Bl3.
Send your inquiries to seed and plant
merchants, stating the number required; or
a small ad. will bring quotations. Trade
price is about 255. per TOO, plus postage.
Did Italy and France repudiate their
debts after the Great War? If not, what
did they d0? —3906.
There were currency inflations by which
both nations escaped. part of their internal
debts, and readjustments of the debts to
Britain and the U.S.A.
Have received certificate which informs
me that I can take charge of a steam engine
whose area of cylinders does not exceed T5O
circular inches. What is a “circular inch’’?
—3891.
It is computed as the square of . the dia-
meter. For instance, a cylinder with a dia-
meter of 12in. would be classed as an engine
with a cylinder of 144 circular-inch area.
What are trade winds and where and When
do they occur? —4051.
They blow from the tropical belts of high
pressure towards the equatorial belt of low
pressure, from the north-east in the Northern
Hemisphere and from the south-east in the
Southern. The term “trade” is used in the
otherwise obsolete sense of “direction” or
“course.”
(1) Formula for working out the speed of
any given object (specific gravity known )
falling from a ’plane at any height? (2)
Formula for ascertaining the distance of any
vessel by its appearance on the horizon, the
observer's eyes being oft. above sea level? —
4033.
(1) Square root of height in feet divided
by 16 gives time in seconds. This, the only
simple formula available, makes no allowance
for air resistance. (2) Only simple formula
we know of is that which gives the ratio
between the height of the observer’s eyes
above sea level and the distance of the
horizon—square root of height in feet mul-
tiplied by 1.17 gives miles.
A person in England sends money to a
person in Australia by money order. What
was the practice regarding exchange last
year? What is the practice this year? —
4150.
The practice during last year was to
pay the amounts indicated by the British
authorities on the money orders and advices.
Since January 29, 1931, when the exchange
rate rose to 301 per cent., arrangements
were made with the British Post Office for
remitters to be given the benefit of the
exchange. -
What is atavism? —4110.
The term given in biology to the reproduc-
tion in a living person or animal of the
characteristics of an ancestor more remote
than its parents. Loosely used, it connotes a
reversion to an earlier type. Individuals re-
produce unexpectedly the traits of earlier
ancestors, and ethnologists and criminologists
frequently explain by “atavism” the occur-
rence of degenerate species of man.
What nationality is a Lascar? How is the
word derived? —4111.
It is the name in common use for all
Oriental, and especially Indian, sailors,
which has been adopted in England into the
Merchant Shipping Acts. It is derived from
the Persian Tashkar,” meaning army, or
camp, in which sense it is still used in India,
and was applied to sailors by the Portuguese
in the seventeenth century.
Practical method of treating rolled-gold
and gold-plated jewellery, etc., in small lots
(3 lb. to 51b.) to obtain the g01d? —3824.
The rolled-gold or gold-plated jewellery
should first be cut in pieces so as to expose
the underlying base metal. It should then
be warmed with nitric acid 2 parts and water
1 part. When the base metal has dissolved,
the residue is a gold of about the fineness
used in the rolling operation.
I am a cafe proprietor, and have been
advised I must register as a manufacturer
and pay sales tax on manufactured articles,
such as cakes, meals, etc. Must / pay tax
on the retail price or on the profit? I have
already paid tax on the ingredients? —37sB.
Tax is payable on the wholesale selling
value of all manufactured goods sold retail,
either by way of meals or over the counter,
and on the wholesale price of such goods sold
wholesale. If sales tax has been paid on the
materials used, a rebate is allowable.
What is the easiest and most satisfactory
method of striking flower cuttings? Suitable
plants for the work? —4ls2.
Make boxes 2ft. long, by 12in. wide and
6in. deep, and, after putting in stones or
crocks for drainage, fill with soil to within
2in. of the top. Place the plants in them
and cover with glass. Earthenware pots are
also suitable, and, if placed in new manure
to generate heat, will soon force the cuttings
to root. The soil should be baked or saturated
with boiling water before ffieing used'; to kiil
off weeds. Suitable plants; for. such culture
are carnations/ fuchsias, heliotrope.' salvia,
snapdragons, petunias and pCntstemous.
Coleus and leaf-plants for greenhouse and
conservatories can also be propagated by this
method.
(1) Is the boundary-line between N.S.W.
and Q. marked in any way? (2) Is a man
allowed to own property half of which is in
N.B.W. and the other half in Q.f (3) Is
such property taxable in both States? —3929.
(1) Natural marks are several mountain
ranges and the Dumaresq, Macintyre and
Barwon rivers. On that part between Point
Danger and the Dumaresq the trees along
the line are marked by an arrow. From the
Barwon westerly to the S.A. border marked
posts are placed at every mile. (2) Yes.
(3) Taxes would be payable to each StaLe
in respect of the area in that particular
State.
(1) Is it true that Pierpont Morgan once
saved the United States Treasury from bank-
ruptcy by taking bonds in payment for goldl
at more than their face value? (2) Did the
United States have a “fiduciary” currency
after the Civil War, and, if so, what hap-
pened to it? (3) Has there been free coin-
age of silver in the U.S.A. in recent times?
—3982.
(1) During the panic of 1893 Morgan sold
the Treasury 65/166,000 dollars’ worth of
gold in return for four per cent, bonds, 30
years’ currency, of a face value of 62,315,000
dollars, in effect paying 104 for them. This
didn’t “save the Treasury from bankruptcy,”
but eased an awkward strain on the gold
reserve. Morgan made a good bargain, the
bonds being quoted shortly after the sale
at 112-1. (2) There was a “greenback”
note issue, backed only by the credit of the
Federal Administration. The year after the
war, a movement to retire this currency was
instituted, but pronounced agricultural de-
pression set in and the movement was
cheeked. The “greenbacks,” however, were
not legal tender for State taxes, nor for debts
specifically repayable in coin, till 1871. It was
enacted by a dying Republican Administration
that specie payments should be resumed in
January 1, 1879. The “greenback’’ currency
was contracted. From 1873 to 1878 the
country was in a bad state of depression,
and in May, 1878, it was found necessary
to stop the contracting process. Trade returned
with a rush, and by tne beginning of 1874 the
Treasury’s gold reserve was 113 million
dollars in excess of matured liabilities and
“greenbacks” were at par with gold. There-
after the issue was never a cause of anxiety.
(3) Not at any time after the Civil War.
Silver was actually demonetised in 1873,
possibly one of the causes of the severe
depression. Bland’s bill for the free coin-
age of silver in 1878 was turned into a com-
promise measure under which silver was
made legal tender, and remained so till 1890
Free silver coinage bills -were again defeated
in 1886 and 1890. The last great rally for
that cause was Bryan’s in 1896, but the
downfall of silver mining and the doubling
of the U.S.A. gold production about that
time effectually squelched it.
(1) Was it ever proposed that the State
should purchase the Union S. StCo.’s business!
(2) Was the victory of Ballance in M.L. in
1890 due to promises to float large public
loans ? —4124.
(1) Seddon proposed the purchase in his
pre-Ministerial days, during the maritime
strike in 1890. His idea was to put the
men employed on the steamers under naval
discipline so that there could be no strikes.
Gaining no support from his colleagues, he
dropped the proposal and never revived it.
(2) No. The country was suffering severe
depression owing to Vogel’s over-borrowing,
and the Liberal platform gave a prominent
place to the planks of “no more borrowing.”
“self-reliance” and “thorough retrenchment.”
During Ballance’s three yeai-s of office the
national debt was increased by £BOO,OOO,
solely due to conversions, which slightly
raised the capital liability but reduced the
annual interest bill by £27,000.
Are seeds from one’s own garden better
than those purchased from■ merchants? Any
hints on saving seeds from one’s own garden?
—4160.
In most cases freshly-garnered seed will
germinate better and quicker than shop-
stored seed, but many varieties, particularly
asters, lupins and delphiniums, will run out
if sown continuously in the same soil. When
saving seed the best specimen flowers should
be selected and labelled for color or pecu-
liarities, and when thoroughly matured
packed away to dry. Do not pick the seed-
heads if they are wet, or mildew may cause
deterioration. Store in tobacco-tins.
I live on a river 20 miles from the
mouth and 11 miles from salt water. The
river rises and falls with each tide. The
rise in tides at the mouth is. sft. to Qft.; in
my vicinity only 2ft. to 3 ft. (1) What is
the difference between the bed-levels at my
place and the mouth? (2) Does the tide
back up water in a river above the tide-
level? (3) What is the fall in the surface-
level of a river per mile with a current
flowing at three miles per hour? —4020.
(1) Can’t compute it on data given. (2)
No; the fresh water flowing down the steam
being lighter than the salt water flowing up
naturally keeps on the surface and gradually
rises as the wedge of salt water progresses.
At high water the vertical motion ceases,
but there will always be a current running
do-wnstream to provide a getaway for the
upland water. At the point where the salt
water ceases to progress its surface will be
lower than its surface lower down, on
account of the friction caused by uneven-
ness of the river and the weight of the
fresh water on top. The surface of the
fresh water might be considerably higher
than the surface of the salt water at the
mouth of the river, the difference being due
to the cross-sectional area and the amount
of water coming down. (3) The velocity
of a stream depends on volume, and the
state of the channel through which it flows.
In ordinary river channels the velocity varies
at every bend and at every change of sec-
tion, whether due to variation of width or
to boulders, snags or other obstructions.
(1) Any way of repairing the tungsten
threads of electric-light globes? (2) How
arc the globes made? (3) Where? —4ll9.
(1) No. Lamps are so cheap it wouldn’t
be worth doing if it could be done. (2)
The bulb is exhausted of air, and in some
cases refilled at a reduced pressure with nitro-
gen or argon. (3) England. Holland and
U.S.A. are the principal manufacturing coun-
tries. A factory is going up at Newcastle
(N.S.W.).
Brief Answers.
A.G.S.: (1) Flying-officer Scott was born
in England, February 13, 1903. (2) Quite unreli-
able, resulting in under-estimates of up to 25 per cent.
The lumber trade method is to measure circumference
in five or six places, take average of girth, divide
by 4, square the product, and multiply by length.
This method allows for sawing wastage... .C.T.:
Can’t answer on particulars given. Write to the
Old-Age and Invalids’ Pension Office, Brisbane.
. ...D.W.: Write Q’land Agriculture Dept., Brisbane,
for pamphlet “Pests of Bananas”... .A.N.M.: (1)
Figures not available here. Write Chief Inspector,
Aliens Branch, Home Office, Whitehall, London,
S. A.J.M.N.: (1) and (3) Henry Simon and
Co., and Thos. Robinson and Co. —both of Sydney.
(2) Information not available in Brisbane. (4)
Nominal price, 2s. 3d. (5) Local Q’land price, 4s.
2id. (6) (a) 401 b. (b) 501 b. (e) 601 b
T. : There is a connection, but no relationship...
F.A.: “Prospecting for Gold,” by lon L. Idriess,
Angus and Robertson, ss. 4d., post free....
E.W.: (1) Worth about 2d. each. (2) Stamps
of this low value have no ready sale
M. J.: So far as is known there is no process
in use for the softening of Australian hardw'ood
timbers G.S.: (I) Yes. (2) and (3) Write
Deputy Registrar, Commonwealth Arbitration Court,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.... M.J.H.: Question too vague.
The findings of the Dardanelles Commission cover a
wide range of subjects. .. .N.M.: (1) No. (2) No.
. ...H.M.T.: The schools are in receipt of a Gov-
ernment subsidy and are under Government super-
vision... .F.M.C.: It most likely appeared in the
Hobart “Mercury.” Write to that paper... .S.C.F.:
(1) “Classing the Clip,” by C. E. Cowley. (2)
Write Officer-in-Charge, Correspondence Courses,
Sydney Technical College, Harris-street, Sydney....
D.K.: Report the matter to the district Inspector of
Stock.... J.V.K.: A deed of separation can be
varied as a post-nuptial settlement. You would
require the assistance of a solicitor... .J.M.: (1) If
the mortgage was given to secure an overdraft you
are entitled to the relief given by the Act. Interest
must be paid. (2) Continues in force until April
30, 1933. . . .8.5.: No surplus uniform clothing is
carried by the N.S.W. Tramway Department. Re-
turned uniforms are sold by tender at stated periods.
....G.C.N.: Pirie-street, Kent Town, Adelaide....
J.M.D.: (1) From the Country Lending Branch,
Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney. (2) They won’t
take you very far and you couldn’t qualify by their
aid alone.. . .W.M.R.: The proper method is to scrape
it off prior to tanning to allow the tan to penetrate
the skin. .. .H.C.K.: (1) “The Macedonian Cam-
paign,” by Villari. (2) “The Russian Turmoil,” by
Denekin. (3) “The Campaign in Gallipoli,” by
Von Kannengiesser... .F.F.: (1) Transportation of
convicts to Eastern Australia ceased in 1852 ; to
W.A. in 1868. (2) He was shot by a station-hand
at Pechelba station (Vic.), April 9, 1865. .. .H.E.R.:
Cosima Wagner died at Bayreuth (Germany) last
year... .L.A.M.: 133 Pitt-street, Sydney.... W.J.C.:
The factors which determine the hardness and black-
ness of pencils are the proportions of graphite and
clay in the leads and the heat to which they are
raised in the crucible. The greater the proportion
of graphite and the lower the heat, the softer and
blacker the pencil... .M.R.R.: There is no such court
in Sydney. Give further information and we’ll make
inquiries... .F.D.: Best kind of loquat to grow for
commercial purposes is Herd’s Mammoth. .. .G.N.T.:
No Act of Parliament can be amended or repealed
without the consent of both Houses of Parliament....
5.8.: The term “pyrometer” is now applied to any
device intended to measure temperatures beyond the
upper limit of the mercury thermometer. .. .
W.H.H.: (1) The closing date for submission
of designs for Maoriland postage stamps is
September 30, 1931. (2) Approximately 15
denominations, ranging from jd. to 35.....
A.A.: Goldfish spawn from August to January.
. ...G.T.: Cuttle-fish occur spasmodically on sand
and mud flats, where they are occasionally captured
in fishermen’s hauling nets. They are used only
for bait and are sold in the Sydney fish market for
that purpose... .P.K.: (1) Overstreet’s “Influencing
Human Behavior,” Dosey’s “How and Why of Human
Behavior.” (2) Bagley’s “The Spoken Word,”
Craig’s “Speech Arts,” Haddock’s “Art of Clear
Speaking,” Palmer and Sammis’s “Principles of
Oral English” and Pelsma’s “Essentials of Speech.”
. ...W.E.8.: (1) Cannot trace any co. that under-
writes this type of bond. (2) Ask the P.M.G.’s
department what cos. issue such bonds. .. .W.G.S.:
(1) The A.L.P. platform is printed in the party’s
rule-book, obtainable from the Secretary, Trades
Hall, Sydney. (2) See George Black’s “History of
the Aust. Labor Party,” Coghlan’s “Labor and Indus-
try in Australia” and articles on the subject in the
“Australian Encyclopaedia”. .. .E.V.S.: Very little.
There is wholesale unemployment amongst whites in
the engineering trade in all those countries....
P.G.T.: John Barrymore... .H.M.: Add a little tur-
pentine. .. .L.C.: Nothing known which would last
long enough to be worth doing. Give the leather an
occasional dressing of neatsfoot oil, and add a few
sprigs or small nails where the wear is hardest....
L.T.D.: (1) It has nothing to do with the lost tribes
of Israel. (2) Don’t know of any book. “Encyclo-
paedia Britannica” says the theory “rests on premises
which are deemed by scholars—both theological and
anthropological—to be utterly unsound.” (3) His
view is summed up in B. 10/6/’3l, p. 12... .C.H.H.:
(1) He is not bound, but he leaves the crop un-
reaped at his peril. (2) Yes C.S.: Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .H.P.8.: Mittagong (N.S.W.),
1500; Deniliquin (N.S.W.), 2660; Mildura (Vic.),
5101; Maffra (Vic.), 1657 W.G.D.: Make a com-
plaint to the local inspector of nuisances... .W.R.A.:
There is no provision in the Vic. Licensing Acts
which would prohibit the manufacture of goose-
berry wine, but any person selling it would be
liable to imprisonment. The Act contains no pro-
vision under which a license could be granted to
sell gooseberry wine... .S.V.D.: (1) Usual price to
retailers is less 33J per cent, retail price. Whole-
sale distributors generally get 12J per cent, off
price to retailers. (2) Yes. (3) Best plan would
be to discuss distribution with the firm... .8.J.R.:
The mortgagee cannot foreclose, but interest must
be paid.... H.C.W.: You can sue him in the nearest
Small Debts Court... .0.N.C.: Write Assistant Pay-
master-General, Supreme Court Pay Office, Law
Courts, London... .H.M.: Wagga Wagga (“many
crows”), Murrumbidgee (“big water”), Cootamundra
(“low-lying place”). Parkes is named after Sir
Henry Parkes, and Forbes after Sir Francis Forbes,
first Chief Justice of N.S.W R.R.G.: Can’t say
•what the incidence of the legislation will be until
it is passed... .J.W.: The “Noonan” stories, by J. P.
McKinney, have not yet been published in book form.
They have appeared regularly in the “Australian
Journal” since 1926. .. .E. 8.: No value... .McL.:
Valueless... .H.H.: (1) You are liable for N.S.W.
unemployment relief tax in respect of rent received
from property in Q’land; you should not be, but
that is the contention. (2) Write Commissioner
of Taxes, Brisbane C.C.: Consult an optician....
C.: Bolsheviki means literally “the greater.” They
were the terrorist majority of the Social Democratic
party that became dominant in Russia during 1917.
The Menshiviki were the moderates A.S.: Get in
touch with the Superintendent, Mercantile Marine,
Miller’s Point, Sydney (Many others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £lOO IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J. HARDIE
Synopsis : Margaret Kennedy, on her
way to Corella station, in North
Queensland, whither she has been in-
vited by Tom Donaldson, father of
her school friend, has the wild and
woman-shy stockman Ken Craig de-
scribed to her in startling detail by
Harry the mailman. Suddenly the
horses take fright and bolt; Harry is
thrown off, and Margaret is left alone
on the coach. She is rescued from a
seemingly inevitable crash into the
creek-bed below by the decisive action
of Craig, who, riding out of the bush,
shoots the leading horses, and orders
Margaret, who is dressed like a boy,
to help him cut the others loose. She
Hies, but the strain is too much, and
she falls unconscious. Craig, who
had mistaken her for what she looked
like, and used language accordingly, is
more embarrassed than ever when he
discovers his mistake. They go on
together to the station, where Donald-
son is pleased to have her as company
for his daughter, Peggy. Margaret
falls under the spell of Craig’s roman-
tic personality, though she resents the
fact that ha is repeatedly doing
things that appear to her to put her
in his debt. The latest of these is
letting her take his favorite pony,
Dawn, without protest. He goes away
to help a queer character, Larry
Nolan, with his horses, and before he
returns to Corella Larry gives him a
magnificent black, which he calls
Eaglehawk, and the popular opinion
regarding which is that Larry must
have pinched it as a foal. Ken takes
Eaglehawk with him when he goes out
to take charge of the work at Cattle
Camp, where, some time later. Donald-
son and the girls unexpectedly arrive.
CHAPTER IX (Continued).
KEN’S thoughts were flying ahead, and
the blue eyes of the Ardwell head
stockman searched the immediate
landscape. Scotty was feeling annoyed at
having to appear in society in his present
unromantic garb, and Dusty Rhodes was
inwardly profane—“flamin’ women chasing
about when a man wants a spell!”
They stepped quietly down to the creek
and removed the traces of the morning’s
work before they appeared surreptitiously
at the hut, hoping for a chance to brush up
a bit. But Peggy’s voice challenged them
from the dim shade of the bough shed:
“Nice sort of welcome you give your
visitors, Ken! Do you always slip round
the back way and send word that you’re
out?”
They paused shamefacedly and turned
towards the voice. “You caught us at a
bad time, Miss Donaldson. How do you
do, Miss Kennedy?” He beckoned the
reluctant man behind. “This is Mr. Arm-
strong, of Ardwell—Miss Kennedy!”
“Hullo, Mr. Armstrong. We didn’t expect
to see you here.” Peggy’s tone was bland,
almost reproachful, and Margaret, watching
her out of the corner of her eye, restrained
a smile.
Jim’s color was not all due to sunburn
as he stood tongue-tied, hat in hand, his
eyes on Peggy, who appeared to be quite
unaware of his existence.
“How long since you shaved, Ken?” she
demanded.
“Only a couple of weeks”—he ruefully
rubbed his jaw. “If you had arrived an
hour later we would have been a bit more
presentable.”
“Well, go ahead!” she laughed at them.
“Don’t let Dusty overdo it!”
In the shelter of their new quarters that
individual confided to Scotty, lathering
diligently: “She’s not a bad sort that—as
far as women goes.” (Pause.) “The thin
one don’t give much away!” He glanced
out of the corner of his eye at Scotty as he
added: “Looks a bit stuck-up to me!”
Scotty bit—hard. “Stuck-up be damned!
Did ye ever speak to her?”
“Me? Not in my line, son!”
“Ever seen her on a horse, then?” Scotty
started at a sudden thought. “By Jove!
I’d give anything to see her on Ken’s black
horse!”
“Your money’s safe, son!” Dusty’s tone
was quietly derisive. “Like the rest of your
countrymen, anything you ever gave away
you’ve got yet!”
After dinner Ken and the manager talked
business and the big man inspected the
new camp with evident satisfaction. But
it was Margaret who came to light with
the real reason of their visit. She left
Peggy and Jim Armstrong so engrossed in
conversation that they did not notice her
departure, and strolled slowly across the
blinding patch of sunlight to where the
two tall forms were conversing.
“Strictly business?” she queried. “Tell
me if I’m in the way.”
Both turned quickly a.t the quiet voice;
but it was Ken who answered: “Not a bit,
Miss Kennedy!”
She surveyed him, quietly smiling.
“Where’s this horse of yours, Mr. Craig.
We’ve heard of nothing else from Mr.
Gordon. I even heard Tom Sanderson
speak about him, so he must be pretty
good.”
Ken smiled back with a touch of enthu-
siasm. “He’s a beauty all right. I’ll get
Jerry to bring him in.”
At his call, the slim dark figure rose from
the little knot of boys playing cards on a
saddle-cloth.
“Fetchem up Kungelinga, Jerry.”
“Ee-oh.” The boy’s teeth flashed in a
wide smile and he disappeared, bridle on
shoulder.
“How’s he working, Ken?” Donaldson
queried.
“Good! Never a bit of trouble. Taken
to cattle like an old stock-horse.”
“Buck at all?”
“Never since I broke him in. And not
a bit of vice in him.” He hesitated, then
continued: “I wouldn’t go too near him all
the same. He’s quiet with me, but he
watches pretty close when anyone else gets
near him.”
The big man nodded understandingly and
moved off. “I’ll see him when he comes in.
I want to have a yarn with Dusty.”
Alone with the girl, Ken turned slowly
and eyed the slim, graceful figure, shading
her eyes as she gazed in the direction where
Jerry had disappeared.
As if conscious of his scrutiny she turned.
Their gaze met; grey eyes looked steadily
into browrn with dark flecks. He thrilled
at the depths in them—the mystery there
—till, suddenly realising, he jerked his head
aw’ay, the color flooding under the tan of
his neck.
Margaret started, disconcerted, struggling
to recover her composure and plunged ner-
vously into conversation—anything, she felt,
to cover the gap.
“Er—how do you think Dawn looks?”
She saw’ the tightened muscles of the set
jaw stand out as he replied slowly: “I
haven’t seen him yet, Miss Kennedy. Looks
like him Jerry’s bringing in now r .” He
nodded towards the little mob of horses
coming rapidly towards them, then, turning
av T ay, he added: “If you don’t mind, I’ll
cut off the spares. Come across when you
see them yarded.”
He strode rapidly aw'ay, hands clenched
tightly, glad of the respite, and feeling
furious with himself. He was far from
finding excuses for himself. On the con-
trary, he felt more like kicking himself
for being such a damn fool as to let himself
go like that. The thrill—the ama.zing
depths of those wonderful eyes—damn and
blast! Can’t you keep off it, you ever-
lasting idiot! And the two forces warred
fiercely within him, as he strode blindly
along.
Jerry was putting up the sliprails, and the
little bunch of horses was circling round
the yard. At sight of Ken they shied off,
leaving two horses steadily watching him—
the black and the grey. Dawn, recognising
him, whinnied softly and advanced a step
towards him; and the man looked up,
shaking his head as if getting rid of the
distui’bing thoughts in it.
“Hello, Dawn!” he commenced in a
pleased tone, as if an old friend had greeted
him, when suddenly he noticed the attitude
of the big, black horse.
He had drawn away from the others with
the grey, disdaining their simulated fear,
ready to greet the man, when he heard the
unknown grey whinny a greeting and
advance towards his man.
Ken saw the ears flatten back on the
neck, red fury blazing from the eyes—it
reminded him of the delicate, evil head
of a black snake, neck frilled out, ready to
strike.
He took in the situation at a glance and
acted like a flash. With a yell he sprang
past the startled grey, straight at the black
horse, striking the wrinkling muzzle with
the palm of his hand, and yelling again at
the top of his lungs. The big horse jumped
away from the hurtling figure, amazed at
such treatment, scared out of his jealous
rage with hurt surprise.
The man followed him to the corner of
the yard, shouting to Jerry to run the
other horses off, and feeling heavy with
apprehension. He knew he had shaken the
horse’s trust in him and it hurt him as it
hurts a parent to administer a first thrash-
ing. But he knew that if he had not done
so nothing would have saved the grey horse
from certain death. He had seen murder
staring out of the stallion’s eyes, and had
done the only possible thing without a
thought of the risk he ran.
Quietly he moved after the retreating
horse, now eyeing the ma.n with new-born
distrust. A hand ran up the tense shoulder
muscles, the other slid up round the un-
yielding ears and gradually the big horse
relaxed with a long‘d deep breath, and
nuzzled at the man.
“Sorry, old son, but it had to be done!”
And the girl, who had hurried to the
yard attracted by the yell, was struck by
the deep contrition of the tone, and felt she
was intruding. The horse pricked his ears
at the stranger, and Ken, straightening up,
observed the girl outside the rails.
“Come in, Miss Kennedy,” His voice
was subdued as he low r ered the sliprails.
The girl stepped into the yard without a
word, her eyes on the magnificent horse
standing calmly aloof, intelligent eyes re-
garding her—as an equal, she felt.
Unconsciously her left hand closed
tightly on the man’s arm, as, lips parted,
eyes shining, she gazed in sheer admiration.
Ken dared not move—he realised that the
girl was worshipping, as he had done, as
everyone had done. The soft, capable
fingers biting into his bare arm were send-
ing wave after wave of emotion through
him, yet he could not break away.
The girl’s face wore a look that he had
never seen before—the mask of reserve had
dropped, and her soul shone through her
eyes.
“You wonderful, glorious creature!”
The words dropped slowly, almost un-
consciously from her lips, and the man
flushed at the earnest, deep tones. He felt
like a High Priest listening to a devout
multitude in fervent worship of his deity.
She turned slowly, shaking her head, and
her relaxed hand dropped from his arm to
her side.
“I can hardly believe it!” She spoke
slowly as if in a dream. “I’ve loved horses
all my life, but I’ve never—never —seen
anything like this!”
Ken’s eyes were shining, and this time
their eyes met without embarrassment, full
of mutual understanding that expressed
everything without the futility of words.
Like Kipling’s Mowgli, the sudden con-
sciousness of the bond that had sprung
between them sang exultantly, “We are of
the same blood, you and I!”
Donaldson clambered over the rails, fol-
lowed by Peggy and the attendant Jim, and
Ken and the girl stood to one side smiling
in contented enjoyment at their astonished
wonder.
The big man was openß- incredulous.
“Mean to tell me Nolan bred him?” But
his opinion stated, he forgot it in admira-
tion of the horse.
Margaret was speaking again in a quiet,
intimate voice that only Ken heard.
“What do you call him?”
“Eaglehawk.”
She nodded satisfaction. “But that is
not the name you told Jerry, is it?”
“Kungelinga?” He smiled at her. “That’s
the blacks’ name for Eaglehawk.”
Peggy’s eyes had been noting the absence
of the restraint that had hitherto existed
between them and she chuckled to herself
as she called:
“Margaret, you look as pleased as if
Ken had given you the horse.”
The tall girl flushed, but smiled happily
back: “No thanks, Pegs! Too much respon-
sibility for me. But I feel I could stand
and look at him all day.”
“Better sit, Margaret,” chuckled Donald-
son from the top rail. “You’ll last longer.”
The girl faced Ken squarely. “When are
you bringing him to the station?” she de-
manded.
Ken tilted his hat and scratched his head
thoughtfully. “Well, we’re coming in for
fresh horses day after to-morrow. But I
was thinking of leaving him here.”
She pounced triumphantly on his indeci-
sion. “Well, think again! You’re going to
ride Eaglehawk and I’m coming out to
meet you.”
She noticed the troubled look on his face
and wondered as he said slowly: “Would
you mind riding another horse—if you
come out?” He seemed at a loss for words
to explain, but nodded at the black horse.
“You see, this chap has a bit of a set on
Dawn.”
Her eyes widened quickly. “Was that
the trouble as I came up?”
He nodded assent.
“Oh! Was that why”
His eyes answered the question in hers,
and she walked slowly back.
Ken took down the sliprails, the show
was over; and at his low whistle the big
horse moved towards him, calmly ignoring
the others, and put down his beautiful head
for a final caress. Clear of the yard he
shook out his mane and tail and with head
held high, trotted smoothly away.
They watched him out of sight; then
Donaldson, climbing stiffly down the rails,
remarked:
“He’s a horse in a million! But Ken, if
any strangers get poking about, keep your
gun handy.”
CHAPTER X.
Ken and the Ardwell man, riding ahead of
the mob of tired horses, were unusually
quiet. Almost from the time they left
Cattle Camp their thoughts soared far
ahead, and at intervals one or the other
would search the shimmering horizon for
the puff of dust or the scarcely perceptible
speck that would denote a traveller.
But not until they had crossed Happy
Creek and left the sombre shade of the
Five Mile behind did Ken’s grunt evoke
an answering nod from his companion.
“Two of them!” muttered Jim.
“Ye-es!” Ken assented slowly. “One on
the chestnut pony. The other’s a big horse,
bay or chestnut.” His eyes narrowed to
slits as he peered across the glare of the
sun-bleached grass. “By cripes, it’s Alan
Gordon’s Flight!” He turned to Armstrong.
“That’s the chestnut mare that won the
Bracelet in Carinda last year.”
The long, fair man whistled astonishment.
“ ’Struth, he must think a lot of the girl to
lend her that mare!”
Margaret waved a hand high in greeting,
and Ken glowed at the sight of her easy,
graceful seat on the nervy, well-bred mare.
The girl’s eyes were on the black horse, who
was taking in the newcomers and their
horses with calm deliberation.
Peggy and Jim were laughing and chatting
like a pair of children—an incongruous pair,
the girl on her plump little pony, and the
tall, fair man on a big showy chestnut.
Peggy let her pony sidle all over the road,
paying not the slightest attention to it as
she laughed and talked; so gradually they
dropped back a little, as the other pair,
moving evenly along, drew ahead.
Margaret was in high spirits. “Do you
know, I’ve been thinking and dreaming of
that wonderful horse ever since I saw him?”
“I don’t blame you, I do myself,” Ken
admitted with a smile.
“Poor Uncle Alan! If only he had lent
me Flight before I saw Eaglehawk! She’s
a lovely mare, isn’t she?” The girl bent
forward and caressed the long smooth neck.
“He told me how fast she was, and”—she
smiled ruefully—“l’m afraid I put my foot
in it by asking if he thought she could beat
Eaglehawk!”
Ken laughed with her. “She’s fast all
right. Cleaned up everything at the last
Carinda meeting. But this chap hasn’t
learned to gallop yet.” And he rubbed the
shining, arched neck with the butt of his
whip handle.
Her eyes danced challengingly. “Why
not try him now?”
Ken smiled back after a reflective glance
up the track. “Right you are! We’ll
canter off and let them out gradually.
Watch that mare, though—she’s lively off
the mark!”
They stopped and warned the others of
the projected gallop.
Armstrong’s boyish face lit with enthu-
siasm. “I’m in this—for a w T hile anyhow,”
he declared. Then as his glance fell on
Peggy’s mount he quickly changed his
mind. “No, go ahead!” His tone was
resigned but firm. “There’s only room for
two horses on this track.”
Peggy roused indignantly. “Nothing of
the kind! You’re not game to admit that
your Ardwell horses can’t gallop.”
But her cavalier only grinned tolerantly.
“I promised the boss only to race this horse
weight for age,” he lied cheerfully and
turned a deaf ear to her expostulations.
Ken allowed the chestnut to lead off,
glancing approvingly at the business-like
seat and shortened reins of her rider. Gradu-
ally he let the black horse out, revelling in
the effortless ease of his stride as he drew
level. Margaret was having trouble in
holding her mare, who was fighting for her
head, but the girl, riding to instructions, was
grimly holding her in. Ken gradually drew
away, leaning out a little more on the
black, who was entering into the spirit of
the race. When Ken felt him take hold
of the bit, he nodded to the girl. Her
big hat was jambed down over her eyes,
the wind pressure blowing the brim back
flat on the crown, wisps of brown hair
streaming from under the brim.
At his nod her eyes glistened and the
mare shot forward like an arrow, the girl
laughing exultantly as she shot past the
black.
Ken grinned back. The black horse, in-
censed at being passed, was fighting for his
head; but the man held him till his pace
steadied, and then sat down to ride him.
The mare’s three-lengths’ lead was cut
down by half. Now they were on her
quarter; and Margaret, looking back, sat
down on the mare and rode her all she
knew. Still the black horse, carrying half
as much more weight, moved smoothly up
to her girth. They were level now and
the man looked across at the determined
face of the girl. Her eyes were shining
with the 5 sheer enjoyment of the race, but
they held a glint which, with the fighting
jut of the chin, proclaimed that she was
riding to win.
Ken yelled to her: “All out to the
timber!”
She nodded, her eyes on the scattered
whitewood five hundred yards away.
The chestnut, responding, gained a head;
then Ken sat down on the black. He did
not ride him—he just let him out gradu-'
ally; and as the chestnut faded behind, his
heart bounded exultantly at the feeling of
unlimited power beneath him.
As he flashed past the first straggling
whitewood, he glanced back. The chestnut
was a good six lengths behind—still coming
gamely, but well out of the race.
He sat up straight in the saddle and his
arm shot high over his head as he eased
the black horse down. The chestnut ranged
alongside, reefing and foaming.
The girl, flushed with excitement, reined
her snorting mare and thrust a hand towards
him.
“Congratulations!” she gasped, “this mare
can fly, but your horse is a marvel. Why,
he’s hardly sweating!”
Ken’s lean, brown hand closed tightly over
the slim one, as he smiled deep down into


EO32SC
/Q I
lEtJEIRMaML
and
HAWAII, extend warm hands of
welcome to Australians in the
approaching winter.
Calling en route at Auckland and
Suva, the large modern Canadian-
Australasian liners have now com-
menced their Winter Excursions.
Special reductions in rates bring this
holiday with its variety and charm
within reach of every vacationist.
Excursion Fares:
FIRST-CLASS RETURN £75
SECOND-CLASS RETURN . . £55
(No exchange.)
Sailings:
Aorangi July 23
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
ANADDAN
MSTEALASIIAN
dsf
r
AC IF IG /*
l/LAN D-/
Follow the Sunshine
And Spend a WINTER HOLIDAY
TROPICAL SOUTH SEAS—
Via North Queensland, Barrier Reef, Whitsunday Passage,
Barron Falls and Coral Seas
to PAPUA
22 Wonderful Days Fares from £4O
(Australian Currency).
Passengers live on steamer throughout
voyage.
Apply for Pamphlet No. 52/P, to
BURWMIIP
TnSSJgtf
&rC?yLT? -
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Ask for “B.P. Magazine,” 1/-
Adelaide.
a copy.
I*
p/wra
sdfd
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
d
ď
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital * £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. • • . • . • 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Profits ...
and Undivided
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,269
the Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
rhe World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
ilium
ď
!' ° Bhining eyes. He felt strangely reck-
less- old resolutions were swept away, his
head swam and his thoughts soared un-
hindered.
fhe chestnut reefed away and their hands
parted. The horses settled down again to
a . °ng, striding walk, and the man and the
girl were silently happy.
When the shimmer of the station build-
ings showed up, Ken drew rein. “Better
wait here for the others!”
She nodded and swung lightly to the
ground. “Poor old Flight! What will
Uncle Alan say when he sees her?”
Ken dismounted leisurely, and they drew
into the sparse shade of a bloodwood. “I’ll
h x Alan,” he assured her. “Only
—don’t tell him his mare was bfeaten.
Remember, we dead-heated!”
She smiled gleeful agreement at the con-
spiracy as she queried: “Could you have
gone any faster?”
Ken grinned happily back: “He felt as
if he was just getting into his stride. I
reckon he was good for another mile at
least. But keep it dark!”
“Good! I won’t tell a soul!”
Armstrong and Peggy closed up on them
eager for news.
It was a good go,” Ken answered gravely.
“When my colt learns to gallop, I’ve an
idea he’ll shake the mare along.”
The blue eyes looked a trifle suspicious.
‘Seemed to me as if the black won by a
street,” Jim declared.
4 . “Couldn’t pull him up” Ken explained,
“that’s when he sailed past Flight. But
wait till he learns a bit—he’ll show some
of these flash horses how to travel!”
As they separated, the girls turning to-
wards the homestead, Peggy warned them:
“Remember, you’re both coming down to
dinner to-night! No excuses, Ken!”
“Right-oh! Thanks! ”
And as they rode away she turned won-
deringly to her quiet companion. “Heavens
above!” she said. “Is there anything wrong
with Ken?”
“Why?”
‘That’s the first time on record he wasn’t
full of excuses!” The shock was too much
for Peggy. “Why, he actually accepted as
if he liked it!”
After dinner Tom Donaldson settled com-
fortably by the big, open fireplace, but the
other two men over-ruled all objections,
and the big man grinned over his news-
paper at the sounds of distant laughter
floating in from the kitchen—all hands were
helping to wash up.
Jim Armstrong was in great form—Peggy
and he dominated the conversation. Mar-
garet was weak with laughter, and when
they trooped back to the big log fire, Tom
Donaldson looked up at her happy face
and rumbled:
“What was that last one, Margaret?”
“Oh, Mr. Armstrong was trying out some
of his Ardwell yarns on us. We must look
simple!” she laughed back.
Jim’s blue eyes opened with injured
appeal.
“Well, come on!” Peggy interposed,
“What would you like to do —play cards,
or what?”
“What, I think,” ventured Jim, looking
round for support.
Ken glanced appealingly at Margaret,
and, catching her eye, beckoned towards
the piano. She smiled assent and wandered
lazily across the room.
“Care for some music?” She addressed
the company at large.
(( <l My , word!” Jim broke in eagerly.
“Haven’t heard any decent music since I
came to this God-forsaken country! Oh.
sorry!” he added apologetically, with a grin.
Margaret laughed back; no one could
help liking the big, ingenuous, blue-eyed
man at times like this he was more like
an overgrown boy.
“What would you like?”
“Oh, I dunno—something with a bit of
a, go in it. I’m not too keen on these sad
things you get in the bush—like ‘Peeping
through the Knot-hole in Father’s Wooden
Leg.’ ”
Margaret collapsed laughing on the key-
board and Peggy gurgled helplessly: “Come
over here, you absolute idiot, and help me
with this chair.”
After much altercation they settled at
the fireside and Ken drew his chair back
to the shadows where he could watch Mar-
garet’s face.
Margaret’s eyes were dreamy, but the
smile still hung on the comers of her lips
as her hands raised desultory chords. Then
with head back and a little mocking smile
at the group, she broke into little snatches
of catchy songs from “Miss .Gibbs.”
Jim’s eyes opened wide with pleasure; his
cracked voice joined in, occasionally hitting
the right note by accident, till Peggy im-
plored him to stop.
“Sorry!” He was full of contrition. “They
reckon I used to have a good voice. But
the night air, you know—singing bullocks
tq sleep.” He turned to Ken. “How about
y°u! Don’t hear you doing much. How
d you get on watching cattle at nights?”
“Me?” the lazy voice came from the
shadows. “Easier to corroboree than to
sin &! I’m like the man that only knew
two tunes—‘God Save the King,’ and the
other....he knew which one the band was
pKymg; when the people stood up!”
Ye-es?” came a drawling voice from the
P* an ?-. “Think we’ll believe that?” and
she drifted into a beautiful Chopin nocturne,
throwing a glance that caused Ken to flush
with delight.
This sort of music didn’t appeal so much
to Jim, and soon the two fair heads drew
together in animated conversation, inter-
spersed with chuckles from Peggy.
Ken, lying back at his ease, felt supremely
happy. The girl had drifted into Scar-
latti’s Pastorale—another echo of that first
night when he sat listening outside on the
dusty road—and the delicious little stately
runs, played with measured dignity and
deliberation, curled round his senses with
intoxicating sweetness. He gazed through
half-closed eyes at the easy poise of the
slim figure, dark head slightly to one side,
long, shapely hands caressing magic from
the keys—till a wild, surging madness pos-
sessed him and he bit hard on his pipe-
stem, fiercely gripping the arms of the
chair as he battled against it.
Suddenly the music stopped,. and with
the break he came back to reality and
safety. |
Margaret advanced to the fire, rubbing
chilled fingers, and Ken dragged a chair
into the circle for her.
She smiled at him in mock derision.
“Still waiting for the National Anthem?”
He was strangely quiet, she thought, as
he shook his head at her challenge; but
his eyes thanked her for the music more
than he could hope to express in words, and
she slid comfortably into the big chair,
relaxing to the warmth of the glowing logs.
The months slipped by and work went on
as usual. Days grew longer and the healthy
nip left the night air. Flies were getting
bad again as the increasing heat dispelled
their winter lethargy, and the buzzing mil-
lions multiplied. Grass was getting scarcer;
the light winter rain had done little good.
The smaller waterholes were now dry
depressions; the boggy margins of the bigger
holes were traps for old or weak cattle
whose depleted strength was insufficient to
drag the emaciated frame, overfilled with
water, out of the clinging black mud.
Sometimes the stockman arrived too late,
and he would viciously blaspheme the cal-
lous white-eyed crows as he dragged the
still living pitiful object, with empty red
eye sockets, away from the water before
he ended its suffering with a merciful knife
or a bullet.
Within a wide radius of the big water-
holes only the dry sticks of the Mitchell-
grass clumps remained. The majority of
the cattle were still in good condition; they
could be found ten miles out, where the
grass, though dry, was still curly and luxuri-
ant. Every second or third day they would
file into water, trooping in long lines along
the dusty well-defined paths in the cool of
the early morning or evening. Only the
sick or weak whose strength was not suffi-
cient to carry them out to the good grass,
really suffered. It was Nature’s method of
culling—cruel, if you will but what can
be more cruel or merciless than Nature?
Her creed—the survival of the fittest!
Ken had branded his way up the Barker
to the northern boundry, meeting Jack
Fanning, the Windsor head stockman, a
lone white man in his big camp of blacks,
and there they amalgamated and combed
their unfenced borders, branding their own
cleanskins and separating again for home
with a casual “So long! See you at Christ-
mas!”
Ken had devoted himself to work and to
the education of his beloved horse to the
exclusion of all else. He seldom went in to
the station now, preferring to send Scotty
or Dusty Rhodes, or both, staying behind
at Cattle Camp till they returned with
stores and mail. When circumstances forced
him to visit Corella to consult with the
manager, he cut his visit as short as he
possibly could, arriving before the heat of
the day, getting through with his business,
and riding out in the cool of the evening,
carefully avoiding the homestead and all
females.
Scotty noted the return of his boss to his
old reclusive habits, and found all attempts
to draw him into conversation unproductive,
except for a few monosyllables. As a result,
Scotty and Dusty were thrown together more.
The older man’s temper was sorely tried
thereby at times, while the youngster, still
undergoing his initiation, was experiencing
the different stages of exasperation towards
Dusty—a common occurrence when two men
get too much of one another’s undiluted
company.
(7'o be continued next week.)
Attic Song.
Here in a stuffy high room.
With piles of bricks o’erhead,
I pray, “God give me skyroom
To roam in when I’m dead ;
Far through Thy blue dominions,
Beyond earth’s holts and bars,
To spread our spirits’ pinions
And dream among the stars.”
Life’s little limitations,
Begot of human pride
And caste and clash of stations,
We’ll drop them overside;
And like the gaudy bubbles
We blew in childhood’s day,
From all our earthly troubles
We’ll lightly float away.
Out past the white Pleiades,
Beyond the Milky Way,
Where never gloom nor shade is
And baby comets play,
We’ll wing from this hot, dry room
That holds the city’s din,
If God will give us skyroom
To dream and wander in.
n.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


w
Driven into the Cold Snow
by a Harsh Father
If it isn t a harsh parent who s doing the driving, and if the cold snow is
falling on the heights of MT. BUFFALO NATIONAL PARK—well, there’s
more cause for exhilaration than despair in such an experience.
Still, on reflection, no one ever needs to be driven into the snow at Buffalo,
while the harshest and most brutal father would soon be mellowed into a
gently tolerant frame of mind by the invigorating joys of skating, ski-ing,
falling off toboggans, sculpting Epstein-like snow-men and hurling snowballs
at unsuspecting guests.
A big reduction in the winter tariff at The Chalet has brought the cost of a
week’s holiday at Mt. Buffalo (Vic.), between July 24. and August 20, DOWN TO
£B/10/-, all travel charges from Melbourne included. This rate also applies
during the Christmas fortnight. For the rest of the year The Chalet tariff is
only 15/- per day (day visitors slightly higher). Full information and booking
at the Government Tourist Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne; or Martin Place,
Sydney (Vic. representative).
ŵ
ẁ
Chest. Chest with coat buttoned. Centro
seam, back of coat to shoulder seam
Shoulder seam to elbow. Elbow to just
past wristbone. Length of coat under
collar seam to length required.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
Tanner* 6L Manufacturer*
YORK STREET CWynyard Square), SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Kendler is favorite for the Grand National
Hurdle at Flemington next Saturday. On
recent form “Darcy” Eccles’s gelding ought
to lead home the field. Trained by S. W.
Reid, the former cross-country jockey, he is
exceptionally fit. Kendler had an outing on
the flat over a middle-distance at Moonee
Valley last week-end, and did all that was
expected of him. At the same fixture Cock-
crow was successful in the Windarra Hurdle,
carrying a stone more than his “National”
impost. The son of Crowdennis lost friends
by indifferent jumping, but finished very
gamely; it was by sheer grit that he shook
off a challenge from Ocean Bound. The latter
put in good work over the concluding six
furlongs, and at the turn seemed likely to
overhaul Cockcrow, who started a 7-to-4
favorite. The Locker had set a cracking pace
and Cockcrow may have got into difficulties
through chasing the leader. Conditions will
be somewhat different in the three-mile con-
test at Flemington, and this may enable
Cockcrow to give a better jumping display.
Ocean Bound won the Warrnambool Cup of
1930, and followed up with a V.R.C. Birth-
day Handicap success. He was fancied for
"the” Cups, but went amiss. Transition of
the chestnut into a hurdler has been sudden ;
nevertheless he has great possibilities in
that direction. Laniroi, whose dam, Lady
Reiglc, performed splendidly over the little
sticks, was an impressive third in the Win-
darra Hurdle.
Tresolaus and Kalashie heavily dis-
counted their G. National claims at the
Valley. The stable fancied Kalashie, who is
trained by D. J. Price. In years gone by
Price had to do with Bribery, Ataahua, Wim-
mera. Ballista and other famous leppers; but
he will have reason for agreeable surprise if
Kalashie earns high distinction in the hurdle
ranks this winter. Alick Fullarton was hard
at work on Kalashie throughout; yet he
missed a place. Towards the close of the
afternoon Fullarton piloted Polygonum,
another “National” aspirant, in the Marne
Jumpers’ Flat. Backed down to 2 to 1, with
8 to 1 bar one on offer, the Buckwheat prad
sadly disappointed his connections; Firmeroi,
an outsider, won.
Longlands, as well as Polygonum, was
condemned by his Marne Jumpers’ Flat show-
ing. Vincent O’Neill and friends staked
solidly on the 1928 Grand National winner,
but Longlands belied the promise that he
had revealed in running third to Cockcrow
and Olina over hurdles at Caulfield a week
before. Arcadius was a moderate third in the
Marne Jumpers’ Flat, second place going to
the Grand National Steeple aspirant, Iventle.
Since he came into the possession of racing
secretary A. V. Hiskens this was the first
glimpse of real form given by Kentle. He
captured the G. National Hurdle two years
ago, but has never taken kindly to fencing.
Galloping events at the Valley, other than
the Marne Jumpers’ Flat, were won by first
favorites. Green Moth, a four-year-old from
Albury, was backed off the card for the six
furlongs Chandos Handicap, and the Green-
stead mare scored brilliantly from Myarin
and Graewin. When betting opened, Indian
Force headed the quotes. He could not get
nearer than fifth, but Prince Rooka, another
early fancy, was just touched off for third
place. King Mart had to be hard ridden
by “Tich” Wilson to stall off Lynden in the
Deep Creek Handicap. Third money was
earned by Romany Rye for wool-baron A. T.
Creswick. The consistent Rex Aurantic
handsomely accounted for Greenvale Welter
opponents, of whom Salonia and Maggie
Car ilia did best.
* * * *
For Flemington on Saturday :
Myross Handicap: Horatius; next, Veri-
dique.
Grand National Hurdle: Kendler, 1; Cock-
crow, 2; Mosstrooper, 3.
Iramoo Welter: Pembroke; next, Poly-
xena.
Winter Handicap: Shadow King; next.
El Rey.
* * * *
Three times Boorcello and Don Moon
have met in recent middle-distance handi-
caps on Sydney courses, and three times
Boorcello has beaten the old fellow, whose
score is two seconds and a third. In the
June Handicap at Rosehill Don Moon had
9st. 51b. and the mare Bst. 101 b., and with
an apprentice’s allowance bringing his
weight down to Bst. 121 b., the locally-trained
gelding was made favorite at 5 to 2, Boor-
cello being at fours, along with Comanche.
The handsome Comanche was never in the
picture, and seems to be a rogue. Don Moon
was unwisely allowed to dispute the lead
with Dreamdale (12 to 1) ; he shook that
lightweight off in the straight, and the effort
cost him the race, though he struggled on
gamely when tackled by Boorcello, and was
vanquished by a mere half-head. He and
Boorcello are two very honest horses, and
the old ’un must be a marvel to be racing
so well near the close of his eighth year,
especially as he has had to carry scores of
saddle-flappers—sometimes two in an after-
noon. Pratt rides Boorcello very capably.
• •••••
Moorefield form was borne out again in
the Three-year-old Handicap, won by Legis-
lator (9 to 2) from Sir Duninald (7 to 1)
and Tactician (10 to 1). This was an-
other close finish, Legislator passing the
chestnut from Newcastle a stride or two
from the judge’s box. And Bowery (8 to
1) showed how unlucky he had been at the
Kogarah course by downing a pretty fair
field in the Flying Welter, King Crow (7
to 1) running another second. Chemosh
failed so badly in this race that he is not
likely to figure as favorite again for a long
time to come; and Beckwith bled profusely
—as he did once before at Rosehill —and was
pulled up. This poor beggar ought to be
retired to a paddock.
* * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday«
Maiden Handicap: Bloomer.
Flying Handicap: Auda; next, Bowery.
Moorefield Handicap : Black Douglas ; next,
Lord Romeo.
POLITICALLY SPEAKING .
“Nah, then, try another round.”
“Blime, no; I’ll ask for a disserlootion.”
Phar Lap has lOst. 111 b. in the Caulfield
Cup and lOst. 101 b. in the Melbourne Cup,
and if lie has got over the ailment which
troubled him recently and can be turned out
in as good shape as he was last spring he
will take no end of beating in either. This
Page certainly considers him capable of
giving 121 b. to Amounis, 181 b. to Second
Wind, 211 b. to Veilmond and 231 b. to Water-
line at Caulfield ; and 191 b. to Second Wind,
211 b. to The Dimmer and 251 b. to Veil-
mond and Chide at Flemington. His most
formidable opponents may come from the
three-year-olds; indeed, if Cup doubles are
worth specking these days, this Page would
discard the older horses and speck two
youngsters—Heroic’s son Illustrious (7st.
71b.), and Windbag’s son Chatham (7st.
31b.). An Epsom-Metrop. double that
attracts is Sun Eagle (7st. 121 b.) and Sal-
vador (7st. 41b.). Salvador looks and goes
like a stayer, and should have a Melbourne
Cup chance with 7st. 21b.
* * -f *
“Rowley”: The statement in a recent
Bulletin that the English Jockey Club was
abandoning. its ultra-conservative outlook is
borne out by the announcement that the
autocrats of the Turf are adopting the
Australian practice of employing paid
experts to supervise the racing. Not that
the club intends to actually appoint ‘‘stipes”
as we know them. The proposal is that
paid secretaries be appointed toVthe stewards
of race meetings. At present there are
three honorary stewards to each meeting, and
these have powers to regulate and control
all and sundry connected with the meeting
from spectators to jockeys, reporting serious
cases to the Jockey Club for further action.
The new “secretaries” will act as expert
advisers to the honoraries, many of whom
are by no means as well grounded in the
rules and practice of racing as their posi-
tion requires they should be.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
When Tommy Fairhall, now in Maoriland,
recently relinquished his Australian welter-
weight championship, Wally Hancock, whom
Fairhall had beaten, again became the
lOst. 71b. title-holder. But not for long; in his
first fight over three-minute rounds since re-
gaining the crown, he was outpointed by Russ
Critcher at Leichhardt. Critcher (lOst. 71b.)
crowded Hancock (lOst. 61b.) for 14 rounds
and notched a lead that Hancock’s fiery
onslaught in the 15th could not wipe out.
* * * *
Ted Pickrang (13st. lib.) looked more
than 10 pounds heavier than Frank Green
(12st. 51b.) in the chief contest on a popular
programme at Rushcutter Bay last week-
end, and the Maori footballer-fighter belted
Green badly. A wild right to the chin
floored the lighter leather-pusher in the
fifth. Green got up, but went down again
without being hit and was disqualified. Pat
Ryan (list. 41b.) was also too husky for
Frank Lloyd (lOst. 81b.), Lloyd losing on a
k.o. in the first round. The four prelimin-
aries all went to decisions ; they furnished
little excitement.
Footbrawl
But for a trifle of mud in the centre of
the oval the team Victoria sent over to
Adelaide found things to its liking on Satur-
day. Working methodically and marking
skilfully, the Victorians by half-time had
a lead of 54 points to 31. Sexton, the
Croweaters’ centre, had been brilliant, and
started many promising thrusts which the
forwards didn’t carry out. On resuming
positions were reshuffled all round, and the
result was apparent. While 30,000 barrack-
ers roared them up the men of the Holy City
steadily overhauled the visitors till at lemon-
time they were a point ahead —70 to Vic.’s
69. The last term was a fierce but fair
battle, the Dark Blues finally getting on top
with 13 goals 10 behinds (88) to S.A.’s
10 goals 12 behinds (72). For the losers
the aforesaid Sexton, “Snowy” Whitehead,
Bridgman and Sallis shone; the Vies, were
a more even lot, with Coventry, McCormack,
Kelly and Johnson best.
* * *
On Yarraside the three games that should
have happened on June 6 served to amuse
some 35,000 enthusiasts. Hawthorn gave
Richmond a fright by holding them till the
last few minutes; then, as usual, the May-
blooms faded and the Tigers won by 11
points—69 to Hawthorn’s 58. Carlton got
an even worse dose of the shivers out at
Footscray, where the locals were leading
by 3 points just on bell-ring. Then a deter-
mined drive gained Carlton a goal and a
win by 59 points to 56. Essendon beat Fitz-
roy by 70 points to 56.
* * * *
The Queensland and N.S.W. League sides
met again, this time in Brisbane, on Satur-
day, and the Welshmen took the knock
by 15 points to 8, or 3 tries and 3 goals
to 2 tries and a goal. Of the four inter-
state games played this season each State
has won two, so the decider on Saturday
next should draw a bumper house. Queens-
land discarded many of the veterans and
results justified the change. The home side
wei’e generally faster than the visitors and
attacked for most of the game, winning the
ball from the scrums continually. At half-
time Queensland led 11-0, and though
vigorously pressed by the Welshmen in the
second half more than held its own. The
Toowoomba winger, Upton, with 2 tries and
2 goals, scored heavily for Queensland, while
Smith played another great game at full-
back. Pearce in the backs and Prigg in the
vanguard were the Ma State’s outstanding
performers.
* * * #
The big game in the Sydney League grade
competitions on Saturday was that between
undefeated Eastern Suburbs and North Syd-
ney at the Sports Ground. As East had
several of its crack players absent in Queens-
land with the State side, the betting gave
North a chance. When North led 10-0 at
half-time the tip looked all right; however,
the Tricolors pulled themselves together and
ran out winners by *l6-12. East leads the
competition table with 14 points, 4 ahead of
Western Suburbs, in second place. At Birch-
grove Wests beat Balmain 13-7, while a
tough game ended in St. George winning
from Newtown 10-8 at Earl Park. South
Sydney had an easy gallop with University
at Marrickville, scoring 15-7.
* * * *
The Rugby Union fixture between Eastern
Suburbs and University at Sydney Cricket
Ground provided one of the football treats
of the season, a fast, open game, rising to
brilliancy at times. Though East won
19-14, it was a give-and-take go from start
to finish, scores being level at the half-way
spell. Uni. pack, though light, is one of
the best in the competition, but the backs
have their temperamental days. This time
everything clicked, and with the powerful
Hemingway at his very best, East had the
solid defence of Alec Ross to thank for the
happy issue out of their afflictions. Heming-
way, with 3 tries, a penalty and a converted
goal, scored all his side’s points. Manly ran
away from St. George with 44 points 'to 6.
though the Saints made a game of it until
three-quarter time. Drummoyne beat Northern
Suburbs at North Sydney 16-5, while at
Petersham Western Suburbs staggered the
experts by walloping the once-mighty Rand-
wick by 21 to 12.
“D.”: Jim Ferrier, who, at 16, is over
6ft. and just on 14 stone, should train on
into a world-beater. He downed Eric
Apperly in the N. S. Wales amateur cham-
pionship at Rose Bay on Saturday chiefly
by virtue of the kind of temperament that
Bobby Jones only achieved after years of
effort. Royal Sydney has never seen a better
match or a bigger gallery. It was estimated
that over 7000 rushed about the club’s lawn-
like fairways in a desperate effort to watch
the proceedings. The players halved the
first nine in the morning with two under
fours, a remarkable tribute to the easiness
of the course in the trying circumstances.
Apperly averaged fours for the 18; Ferrier
was one under. In the afternoon Ferrier
was dormy three at the 15th, and it looked
all over bar shouting when Apperly staged
•one of his famous finishes. He won the
next, got a two at the 17th, and was ou the
green in two at the last. Ferrier eventually
found himself with a six-foot putt to win
the hole and match, and he brought it off.
His driving was tremendous as usual (he
carried the flax at the 18th, Rose Bay’s
only natural obstacle, with ease, morning
and afternoon), but he won where matches
are nearly always won —on the greens.


ď
đ
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD fits any ordinary blade razor, §, inch.
With this Guard you can shave with perfect safety, with the correct diagonal
shaving stroke ensuring a comfortable shave. Spring clip on the guard allows
instant adjustment. 2/9 each, post free.
Ujbe
PLUM
RAZOR
Strongly-made, grained leather
hinged case provided free with
each razor.
POST FREE PRICES:
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 ea.
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle .... 15/6 ea.
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ea.
7-aay Sets—7 Razors in oak case— Black
85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
”PLUM RAZORS” are supplied in tWo
widths—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Bert:* l know its not much to look
at”
GERT : n YOU SAID IT !”
Bert:"|t only missed sy three n
MINUTES BEATING A RECORD.
Gert; "What the hundred
Yards? *
Footbrawl
“Huon” : The brooding calm so characteristic
of Hobart was rudely disturbed at the 75th
football match between. North and South Tas-
mania, which are about as much in love with
each other as the South and North of Ire-
land. A fight between two players at the
finish saw the umpire intervene. Justly
resenting this attempt to interfere with the
liberty of the subject other players hopped
in. The boundary umpires came to the
rescue of their colleague, and then the crowd
surged over the pickets and took sides —
mostly South’s side. At last the police got
the melee disentangled, and the Northerners
were escorted to the dressing-rooms.
❖ * * *
“^lcitham”: That visit of a Victorian
Association side to Sydney (B. 24/6/’3l)
may not come off after all. The Cabbage
Gardeners asked for 75 per cent, of the
gates backed by a guarantee of £250.
The Ma Staters suggest 66 per cent,
of the gates without a guarantee, and
have undertaken to play at Erskineville
Oval, the headquarters of the Australian
code in Sydney. The Victorian Associa-
tion, pleading poverty—it has nothing like
the resources of the League—is willing to
take a smaller percentage, but stands pat
on the fixed guarantee, and there the matter
rests at present.
* *1- s'i Jji
“Gate” : The N.S.W. Rugby League is feel-
ing more affable than at the beginning of the
season, for the gates to date show an increase
of £l7OO on the takings for the same period
last year. This is the more encouraging,
since the professional body dropped £3OOO
on local football in 1930. The recent Queens-
land visit returned a net profit of £lOOO, and
the League’s percentages for the club games
are £BOO ahead of expenses. The League is
evidently set on wiping out the rough stuff
which has done the game so much harm dur-
ing the past couple of seasons. Last week
half a dozen players, several of them pro-
minent first-graders, were put on the peg
for various periods, which is all to the good.
* * * *
“Villager”: Manly Council, which gets
a cut of the Rugby Union revenues at Manly
Oval, was perturbed lately to note that the
cash takings were much less than the big
crowds warranted. Recently there was an
attendance of 4500 and only £193 11s. fell in
the till. The Union explains that 900 season
tickets available for all grounds have
been sold. In addition 2770 free tickets
have been issued, these, apart from 35 to
the press, being divided among senior and
junior players, schoolboys and various
returned-soldier associations, including the
Limbless and T.B. organisations. Senior
players were allotted 1600, which seems
excessive, though nothing can be said against
those issued. to junior and schoolboy players
for instructional purposes.
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
is girding up its loins in preparation for the
coming games against Queensland, which open
in Sydney on July 25. The Ma Staters had
little the better of the exchanges in Queens-
land, and in view of the fact that, the North-
erners are bidding for strong representation
in the Australian side for Maoriland the
three inter-State matches and the final trial
game should be as keen as mustard. The
Ma State Union is selecting 25 players to
start training for selection. It is to be hoped
that countrymen will be given a chance.
With the abolition of Country Week this sea-
son they have been left little opportunity
to show their paces, though everyone knows
that there is talent available.
“Cripeski”: It seems a settled thing that
the Russian Soccer team will be allowed to
play in Australia, especially as Scullin has
permitted the ingress of Russian timber to
conipete with the local product. A Russian
living in Sydney, who says he used to play the
game in his native land, has explained that in
Russia the game is not played for entertain-
ment of the crowd, but for health’s sake,
the Soviet considering that the exercise
improves the health of the proletariat, and,
presumably, fits it to do a bit of extra toil
on that account. In Russia, he adds, foul or
rough play is rewarded with a year’s sus-
pension—whether by the neck or otherwise
is not stated. If that rule were in force in
Australia: there would be few left to play
football.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: The opening rounds of
the singles at Wimbledon provided a shock
for the spectators when Cocliet went down
to an average player in Sharpe. The French-
man has had ’flu. Other Englishmen to do well
up to the end of the second round were Aus-
tin, Perry and Hughes. Borotra got in nar-
rowly after a hard battle with the York-
shire champion, Smith, in the first round,
and another stiff gallop in the second against
one Brown! Brugnon and Boussus also
entered the final 32.
j{; «».
„ “Beacon Gladeye” : Just as well the “Rev.
Knucklebone” was unable to go to Wimble-
don (B. 24/6/’3l) to see those ladies with
the painted limbs. They were most dis-
appointing, as my television apparatus
shows, as were other much-advertised novel-
ties, including the tr —sers in which Senor-
ita D’Alvarez was billed to appear. Only
one female turned out without stockings,
and she was also minus paint, the limbs
being displayed au naturel. As for the
D’Alvarez, she went back on the public by
donning, not the breeks that all expected,
but what the Sydney “Herald” loftily de-
scribes as “a species of divided skirt.” Over
this was worn the usual one-piece frock, and
the taut ensemble was far from inspiring.
♦ ❖ * ❖
“Hotham” : The Australian tennis authori-
ties, who dropped £325 on the championship
fixtures in Sydney after being down £425 on
the 1930 Davis Gup tour, are nevertheless on
a good wicket, surplus over liabilities stand-
ing at £4133. At the same time they must
envy their American brethren, who closed
the season with a profit of £1938. Receipts
for the year totalled over £lB,OOO, and though
expenses were heavy there was a good
balance to swell the bloated Yankee reserves,
figures of which are not stated. Except for
the Wimbledon crowd, which is rich beyond
the dreams of avarice, the Americans are
easily the plutocrats of the teiinis world.
■!• : I : ‘c
“Cut Shot”: The American Davis Cup
team which will take part in the inter-zone final
consists of Shields, Wood, Lott and Van Ryn.
The quartette averages a trifle over 21 years
of age, the eldest being 24, a marked con-
trast to the veterans of other years. Wood
is only 19, and' made his first appearance
at Wimbledon at 15, when he was obliter-
ated early in the proceedings by Lacoste.
Doeg and Allison, ranked Nos. 1 and 3 re-
spectively in America, have not been
selected. Lott and Van Ryn were in last
year’s team. One expects the English-
men to have the Yanks going all out when
they meet in Paris, for it looks a guinea to
a gooseberry that Austin and Co. will beat
the Czechs in the European final. Which-
ever side wins should be able to account
for the cupliolder, France, in the challenge
round.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Marino” : Len Nettlefold, of Tasmania, of
whom little has been heard in golf circles
of late, won the Royal Adelaide Club cham-
pionship the other day, finishing 9 strokes up
on the consistent Legli Winser with a card of
230. It is worth noting that H. C. Nott
and L. G. Toms were bracketed with Winser
on the 239 mark. Nettlefold has a lot of
good performances to his credit, including the
Australian amateur title in 1928, the Queens-
land amateur championship the following-
year, and the Tasmanian open and amateur
titles in 1930. Winser has been for years
one of the leading lilywhites of his State
and has won its amateur championship on
several occasions, while with F. C. Bulte
he took the Australian foursomes in 1929.
v * * *
“Glenelg” : Cabled that Rufus Stewart, the
South Australian professional golfer who
won the right to represent Australia in the
British open championship, has left England
on his return journey to Australia. Though
he showed promising form in his opening
matches in Britain, he quite failed to play
up to liis Australian game there or in France,
where lie tried liis luck in the French open,
won by Aubrey Boomer. At the same time
he was by no means disgraced, for in most
of the events he finished well out of the
ruck. Putting seems to have been his down-
fall. A mighty driver-, and uncannily skilful
with the irons, the greens seem to have found
him out, as they have done more than once
in this country.
* -i= * *
“Admiral Blowmetight”: I emerge from
seclusion to thank whatever gods may be for
the fact that my old friend Colonel Damurize
has not been exposed to the latest golfing
scandal —you know, of course, that after he
was married by an associate member of liis
club, he applied for and was granted the
Lieut.-Governorship of Willis Island, where
ships call only twice a year, and there is
no golf, and associates do not butt in and
squeal. The happening I refer to is the
putting on the market of plus-fours for asso-
ciate golfers. It is reported that these
are being rushed by the sorority. I have
been exposed to many women golfers, and
in most cases, especially in the champion-
ship classes, they possess outlines which do
not lend themselves—l say this with the
deepest respect—to plus-fours, especially
when assuming the attitudes on the greens
that putting calls for. Need I say more?
*** , *
“Iconoclast”: One of the American golf
journals has been making the dickens of
a fuss over the experiment of a professor
at the University of Illinois, who has a
theory that the best way to perfect the golf
swing is to blindfold the player. He tried
two batches, one bandaged and the other
observing the “keep your eye on the ball”
rule, and found that the blindfolded players
got better results. There is nothing revolu-
tionary in the idea. The writer knows a lot
of Sydney players who would put up better
games than they do at present if they were
blindfolded all round the course and led by
their caddies. Come to think of it, most
of them might be. muzzled as well with
advantage to all within hearing.
$ $ ❖
“Hoylake”: Some of the British giolf
scribes have been arguing as to the course
carrying the largest greens. The consensus
of opinion is that St. Andrews takes
the cake. There are three greens at
the Mecca of golfers which provide
two holes with their putting area. The
biggest is the Hole o’ Gross, which combines
different putting greens for the fifth and
thirteenth holes. It is said, that the man
mowing it has to travel 18 miles —a problem
as to area which I leave to someone else
to Avork out. There is another of slightly
lesser size which accommodates the second
and sixteenth, and yet another for the eighth
and tenth. A putt of 30 yards is nothing on
s th esc greens.
Car and Cycle
“Pram”: Light cars continue to put up
surprising records. One of them, a Singer,
driven by Langford Penny and Raymond
Becker, of Sydney, returned to the Bridge
City the other ■ day after covering a 5650-
mile run to Townsville and back. The 970-
mile journey to Brisbane was done at the
rate of 36 miles to the gallon. Barnet
Glass tyres were used, and the one set stood
up for the whole journey Avithout a
puncture.
*< * *
“Melchizedec” : That handpoAver-driven car
which “Methuselah” claims as the oldest
mechanically-propelled vehicle (B. 27/5/’3l)
reminds me that the first genuine internal-com-
bustion-engined car was evolved as long ago
as 1680, by a Dutchman named Iluygliens.
Petrol being unknown in those days, the
pioneer fell back on gunpowder to get results.
He seems to have got them, too, for we read
that after a brief but inglorious existence the
car went up with a bang one day, while the
inventor narrowly escaped being charged with
witchcraft.
❖ ❖ $ :*{
“Kick Starter”: The Isle of Man
Tourist Trophy races provided some unusual
features this year. One Avas the double auc-
tory of 23-year-old Percy Hunt in junior and
senior events, both in record time. An-
other Avas the double second in the same
events, by Guthrie, while Nott, who came
third in the junior, was fourth in the senior.
The race for lightAveight cycles went to
Walker', avlio weighs 14 stone. The meeting
was marred by the death of F. G. Hicks, a
former winner of the junior and of the
Grand Price in France.
**; * .
“Sprocket”: A wonderful long-distance
push-bike ride must be credited to Arthur
Wakeling, of Melbourne, avlio started to ride
round Australia, picking up odd jobs as he
went. Friends persuaded him to try to
break the 30-year-old record of Donald
Mackay, who took some hours over 240
days to do the round. Leaving Melbourne
on the westward route on February 17
Wakeling landed in Sydney 127 days out. He
is 22, and about lOst. When he arrives in Mel-
bourne lie AV.ill lia\ r e covered close on 10,000
miles. His feat may be better appreciated
by recalling that the motor-car record for
the same trip is 46 days, with two drivers
to take the wheel in turn. The bike is a
Victorian-built machine Avitli Dunlop tyres.
* * * *
“Roller”: Dunlop-Perdriau are already
making preparations for the classic Goulburn-
Sydney road race, though this will not take
place until September 19. As usual the
race will be run in two classes, amateur
and professional, and prizes and trophies
alike will be well up to standard. The race
was first run in 1902. Most of Australia’s
famous riders have gained laurels in the
Goulburn, notably Hubert Opperman, who
has won it twice and scored fastest time
thrice. On the last occasion he averaged
24 m.p.li. for the 130 miles.
Miscellaneous
“Blade Sight’’: Little advertised as it is,
miniature-rifle shooting is one of the most
fascinating of sports, and has a utility aspect
lacking in most of its contemporaries. The
inter-State championship for the B.S.A.
Shield was shot off the other day, N.S.W.
taking the trophy with 6238 points. South
Australia, Queensland, Victoria and Tassy
followed in that order. The highest indivi-
dual aggregate was put up by a Queenslander.
G. D. Kennedy, who scored 31S out of a
320 possible—miraculous shooting.
* * * #
“Shell’’: If form goes for anything, Bobby
Pearce is home and dried for the Diamond
Sculls at the Henley meeting which begins
on the Thames this week. The big chap
has made hacks of the opposition he has
met in the opening regattas of the season. In
the senior sculls at Marlow he beat Stephens,
who is rowing in the Henley event, covering the
seven furlongs in 4min. lOsec., or two seconds
worse than the record for the race, done in
1924 on top of a flooded river. The holder
of the title, J. S. Guest, is a Canadian, while
Bobby, though Australian in all other
respects, is now a resident of Canada and
rows under a. Canuck nomination.
* * * if
“Cash Amateur”: The English swimming
authorities are to be congratulated on lifting
an idiotic ban which forbade bath attendants
to swim as amateurs, even if they received
no money for coaching or teaching swimmers.
Up to a few years ago managers of baths
were in like case, until an exception was
made in their favor. In spite of this the
Australian swimming heads, and especially
N.S.W., persisted in the snobbish practice,
with the result that Dick Eve, the Olympic
champion diver, had to leave the ranks of
amateurism when he found it necessary to
take over the management of Manly baths.
That scandal has since been remedied, but
it took a lot of time and trouble to do so.
“Splash” : Though born in Maoriland, swim-
mer Lily Copple.stonc, whom Sydney recently
saw disporting in the harbor, seems to have
all the casualness usually attributed to the
Australian. En route to England, she and
a companion, under the impression that
the ship was about to anchor, went; over-
board in Malta harbor, intending to
swim round her before going on board again.
Tho vessel kept on for some distance,
however, abandoning the couple, who had
to swim a couple of miles to shore.
A scoot through the streets of Malta in
bathing costume followed until the adven-
turers came out on the quays opposite their
ship. Another dive and swim saw them
safely aboard, to get well towelled for going
ashore before the doctor had_ granted pratique.
“Spikp”: By way of celebrating the open-
ing of the Harbor Bridge in March, 1932, all
branches of athletics in N.S.W. are to take
part in a general carnival. A meeting of
delegates in Sydney drew up a provisional
programme, which will range from Rugby
and Australian football to surf life-saving.
Athletes from other States are to be invited
to attend, and the only thing to be done is
to raise the necessary money, quite a lot of
which will be needed.


M
1
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
| (or nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, room with breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double, all
less 10 p.c. if staying one week
or more. All meals optional (also
at reduced rates) in tearoom or
caf6. Inclusive board from 10/6
daily, or 66/- weekly, both nett.
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyon’s
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
The American Society
will hold its
INDEPENDENCE DINNER
at
The Wentworth on Saturday, July 4
DINNER: 7.45 P.M., 10/6 PER HEAD. BOOKINGS: 8W1361.
A GREAT INNOVATION AT THE WENTWORTH.
CONTINENTAL PROMENADE CONCERTS EVERY SUNDAY
LEON HALE' AND HIS HUNGARIAN BAND OF 20.
Concert commences 8.30 p.m. 2/- for Supper, covers the entire evening.
Perfect beauty
comes to your hair when the
rich, pure nourishment of Row-
land’s Macassar Oil gives it the
beauty of perfect health.
0 f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
KBwlantfs
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
J. H. & CO.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
“No funeral gloom, my dears, when I am
gone,” was Nellie Stewart’s wish, even as
it had been that of Ellen Terry, and, as far
as outward symbols went, her passing was
made a triumphant exit. The pall that
rustled about her coffin was delicately blue
and pink—it was the train of her Sweet
Nell costume —colorful flowers bloomed in
plenitude in St. James’s, and the service
struck a note of serene cheerfulness. To the
notes of the Londonderry Air the coffin was
carried down the aisle and out beyond the
doors of the old King-street church. Daugh-
ter Nancye wore a gay posy on her grey
coat, son-in-law Mayne Lynton a pink car-
nation in his buttonhole. But, oh, the grief in
their eyes and hundreds of others as the well-
beloved actress passed beyond their sight.
Show girls of 10, 20, 30, 40 years ago came,
some with their husbands, some with their
children, all with some friendly memory.
Old actors and actresses were there, and
in the press coming out of the church could
be heard the careful, beautifully-balanced
speech of the stage of other years. . “Let us
follow her, my dear!” came in clear tones
from an erect elderly man as he gave his
arm to the lady by his side. She, too, was
aged, and in her hands she carried a bunch
of wallflower and other old-world blooms
which presently accompanied Nellie on that
last journey. One of the most beautiful
wreaths was sent by Mrs. Brough-Bell, for-
merly Mrs. Brough. She and her husband
were among the mourners, as were brother
Dick Stewart and “my old friend Robbie,"
as the actress always called her life-long
friend, mapmaker H. E. C. Robinson. Little
Josie Melville was there, and Charlie West-
macott, Johnnie Wallace, Arthur Green-
away and Bert Bailey; and so on, the church
being filled to capacity with neighbors as
different as the Poles.
A woman who was at the St. John Ambu-
lance Centenary luncheon the other day says
she came away with an impression of a
funereal affair served on trestle tables like
pictures of the Last Supper. Through the
murk she saw dear Dr. Storie Dixson clutch-
ing to his breast the picture of the historic
St. John’s Gate in Clerkenwell which a
grateful committee had just presented to
him in recognition of his monumental work
in the cause, and then she saw something
that looked like an ethereal Burne-Jones
figure, or an elongated angel in black, arise
and make a speech. This turned out to be
Mrs. Mark Hambourg, who by every syllable
and correct sentiment she uttered proved
herself a hundred per cent. Englishwoman —
thoroughly sweet, and without guile. She
and Mark were there by virtue of the lady’s
keen interest in the work of St. John’s.
An older generation was grieved last week
by the death of Mrs. E. G. Ward. Mrs. Ward
was a sister to Mark and Victor Foy; her
first husband was J. J. Macken, who was
also connected with the big Foy store. The
lady was noted for her sparkling wit and
generosity. She is mourned by five sons and
two daughters—Mrs. H. H. Mason, of
Darling Point, and the wife of Dr. Howard
Bullock.
Violinist Balokovic (pronounced “vitch”)
and his ash-blonde wife are busy receiving
calls on their yacht, the Northern Light, lying
between Ivirribilli and Kurraba points. The
yacht, upholstered in cheerful chintz, is small;
when a visitor wanted a drink, the steward
stepped behind a door whence came the
strains of a violin being vigorously rehearsed,
the violin eased off, and the whisky material-
ised. Evidently the master was sit-
ting on the cellar. Baron _ Fleetwood,
the secretary and accompanist, has a
suite, bed-, dressing- and bath-room; the
three about the size of a cramped priest-
hole of the good old days. These rooms are
cosily furnished, but are length without
breadth. Does the Baron, after a convivial
party, worm his way in edgeways? He’s good-
looking, this Baron, with blue eyes and nice
hair, which he keeps in order by means of a
tiny pocket comb. Mrs. Balokovic is a sister
to Mary Borden, the novelist. She is small
and, in the way of blondes, has a slightly
golden tinge in her skin. When aboard she
is addicted to berets and pullover white
sweaters. Somebody among the travellers has
a passion for mystery stories, judging by the
book-shelves, on which stand all the best
murder stories. At home, the two live above
the Mediterranean, in a view of Cap Serrat.
The name of their high-flung town is Eze,
which isn’t easy at all, for, having been a
fortress town, its streets are too narrow to
allow the passage of vehicles. Their house
is built of stone, hewn from the neighboring
mountain. It abounds in Moorish-looking
arches; one room is hung with Gobelin
tapestries, and the ceiling of the music-room
is supported by four pillars brought from
Granada. Balokovic is a Croatian. And that
is not pronounced as though he were first
cousin to the knitted jumper of the moment.
“Calls itself a jockey club—why there
ain’t a jockey in it!” snorts Hilleott in “The
Calendar,” and loud guffaws come from a
theatre half-filled with males who don’t look
at all like Colin Stephen. Dress doesn’t play
much of a part in this Theatre Royal
production. Chiffons patterned with the
gyrations of a crazy futuristic persimmon
garnish Melbourne girl Coral Brown when,
as the dubious heroine, she visits Ascot. In
the last act, a velvet neglige, crimson as sin,
fails to hide her cream-silken pyjamaed legs.
Poor Coral has a hectic role —thief, liar
and unfaithful wife; however, any girl as
good-looking needn’t fear to fface any jury
on all three counts. The other girl in the
play, Elma Gibbs, in her Ascot frock of
cornflower-blue flow r ered chiffons, would have
been given a line all to herself by any social
reporter worthy the name.
This Letter opened its mail the other morn-
ing, and out flew its old friend the Wyvern.
The Wyvern is a jaunty animal who carries
arrows in his tail and subsists on a spiky
dart that some absent-minded prehistoric
lad fed to him. These days he earns an
honest living as the guardian of Newington
College, and just now he is abroad in the
land on the cards summoning old Newing-
tonians to their annual dance. This will
happen on July 3 at the Ambassadors.
If you were a mother forced to go out
every day to earn a living for yourself and
your babies, wouldn’t you rather leave them
where their
many wants
would be
attended to —
where the cor-
rect issue of
milk and
orange - 3 uice
would be ad-
ministered and
they would be
trained to play
happy little
game s—than
just depend on
the haphazard
care your al-
ready over-
worked neigh-
bors could give
them? Well,
;hat’s the work
the Day Nur-
series do, and
this year, more
than ever, their resources are taxed to the
utmost. For a few pence a day a mother
may leave her little ones in the kindly
hands of women skilled in baby welfare, and
now that so many mothers have joined the
army of breadwinners the Nurseries feel they
must be equal to the extra demands made on
them. More and more funds are required.
On Saturday night a dance was held to
that end in the Town Hall, and Jess
McMaster, the attractive subject of this
Dayne picture, was one of the hardest
workers in the treasury-filling effort.
The war about sherry being served instead
of cocktails, “for to open the stomach,” as a
nice old Frenchman once put it to this
Letter, hasn’t anything to do with financial
depression or neuritis in the arm through
wielding the shaker. The truth is, as bon
vivants have always known, that cocktails
spoil the palate for wine, whereas the right
brand of sherry can cause just the correct
commotion among the gastric juices.
The ball to the glory of Balokovic and
the benefit of the Dalwood Homes was the
week’s social success. It was an intimate
and happy affair, held in the clubhouse of
the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron, at Kirri-
billi. The violinist and his wife rowed over
from their schooner, the Northern Light, he
complete with decoration, she in burgundy
moire cut on long, slim lines. This was served
with good but unobtrusive pearls and a
spray of lily of the valley. Quite a number
of the women had expected something a bit
more noisy, owing to current tales of the
lady’s great riches. However, the passing
of the Governor and Lady Game provided a
bit of eye exercise, and the presence of
Aide Gifford was as heartening as a sun-
ray or a dash of whisky in the soda.
Charlie Westmacott, who is a member of the
club, and therefore was privileged to sign
chits for the drink waiter, was one of the
popular figures of the night; Claude
Kingston roamed the passages and rooms,
gentle as a disembodied spirit; Lady Game,
very slim in a sheath of gold, gave the
accolade to three pretty snow-white debs,
and a minuet was one of the diversions of
the evening. Nobody seemed to care a hoot
about taxation, and the frocking was of the
best. The Godhards were there, she in mul-
berry chiffons garnished with velvet flowers
of native-like excellence; Mrs. Han Kelly
sported an ermine cape that made one regret
that kleptomania has gone out of fashion;
Mrs. Albert Cazabon’s good profile above
lily leaf-green chiffons was poised above the
same bridge table. Jessica Lee, who with
Don Finley organised and ran the dance,
swept about in a hurricane of sapphire laces.
Little Betty Ogilvie, one of the secretaries,
was shepherded by George Fitzpatrick and
squired by Baron Fleetwood. Mrs. George
Fitzpatrick and Sister Kerven, of St. Mar-
garet’s, were in company; Chief Justice-
Street’s lady, who was president, wore floral
chiffons; and the flower arrangements were
one of the night’s joys. Bowls of delicate
blue and yellow blooms punctuated the
supper-tables, while high on the mantel-
piece flamed poinsettia and great branches
of wattle, and here and there a leafy bough
of autumn glowed serenely. Mrs. Don Tay-
lor’s artistry was responsible.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says it’s
too sweetly typical of Hugh D. Mclntosh
to start a cake shop, and she’s been up
already to buy one of his ninepenny plain
and Is. Id. iced products. She says when
she was going in she collided with a gentle-
man who was coming out. He had spats,
and was complete with gloves and cane. It
was Hugh. Of course, he doesn’t bake the
sponges himself. After she’d bought her
cakes she went in and wept a little over the
denuded old Tivoli, remembering its gay little
chintz window-curtains and chintz cushions,
and the air of cleanliness that pervaded it
from front stalls to stage-door when Hughie
was in charge. The linoleum-covered passages
were then polished almost hourly, and were
as slippery as a skating-rink, and when
she saw that relic of her youth in ruins
she realised what the Belgians must have
suffered when their towns were bombed.
Pinkie Holdship became Mrs. John Gunn
during the week-end, wearing a blue chiffon
frock and a blue hat for the occasion. At
one time, when her clever and attractive
mother was busy with social, organising for
Sydney Hospital, Pinkie threatened to be-
come something of a bookworm and burned
a lot of midnight oil. But after the arrival
of the De Chairs she fluttered into a pretty
little social butterfly. The list of wedding
guests bristled with some of Sydney’s very
best names.
Dr. Bill McKay believes that teaching
racial hygiene in schools is feasible; and in
support of the contention gave a thoughtful
lecturette at Science House the other night.
He illustrated his remarks with diagrams
and outlined lessons which could be given
by teachers to their girl pupils. Presently
Dr. McKay will show what should be taught
to the boys. Nature study, botany and
physiology are among the class subjects
recommended by the doctor.
That sturdy little institution the Rachel
Forster hospital for women and children
of which Kate Ogilvie, the girl in the pic-
ture, is secretary, is prideful that it is carry-
ing on busi-
ness as usual.
It has not.
elosed down or
restricted any
of its activi-
ties, though,
of course,
there are more
patients hav-
ing free doc-
tor in g and
free medicine
than in any
previous year.
Against this
there is extra
income to the
hospital from
a large attend-
ance of women
who, in better
days, would
not have
sought its por-
tals. These patients, though badly crippled
in their finances, can afford to pay the
modest fee of two shillings for the first visit,
one shilling for the second and sixpence for
medicine. The Rachel Forster in its nine
years of usefulness has become so popular
that on some days as many as 230 out-
patients receive attention. Miss Ogilvie,
who went away with the N.S.W. hockey
team, remained abroad when the tour was
ended, and spent five months investigating
the work of women’s hospitals. In New
York, Boston and Philadelphia (there are no
fewer than 500 women doctors in the last
city) she found these institutions had
a highly-organised social service installed
as part of the hospital staff. The work
of the Royal Free Hospital in London, which
is a training school for doctors, impressed
her perhaps most of all.
Fate hasn’t been kind to kindly Earle
Page, leader of the Federal Country Party,
these past weeks, for while he was suffering
with a troublesome appendix he was further
distressed by his mother’s death. The lady,
who was 78, had been one of the pioneers of
Grafton, and one-time its Mayoress. She
leaves three daughters and eight sons—two
of them doctors, one a padre, one a soldier
and one a dominie.
Fay Hornby and Scott Alexander are
presenting the first bill of their Children’s
Theatre on Saturday in St. James’s
Hall. The aim is to provide all-
the-year-round entertainment for children,
who up to the present have had to
be content with a snack of the grown-ups
fun. At each Saturday afternoon perform-
ance four little plays will be produced by
talented girls and boys, assisted by well-known
adult artists. The plays the two founders
have in view have been chosen for their
beauty of language and amusing or poetic
ideas. Miss Hornby is already known to
Sydney as a producer of children s plays,
and Scott Alexander did good work with the
Turret Theatre.
Brisbane’s budget:—
The Australian Field Artillery officers’ mess gave
a dance in Rowe’s ballroom. Daffodil and rose
shades with sweet-peas and roses decked the supper
tables in the Wintergarden. Colonel C. V. Moriarty
received the guests. Mrs. F. M. Lorenzo wore black
with a touch of delphinium-blue, Dorothy Hawthorn
pink-and-white floral chiffon, Ann Blundell ivory
satin beaute, Norah Halford reseda-green, Neth Hut-
chinson black tosca-net, Jan M. Dowell powder-
blue, Peggy Menzies black and white, and Eva Carter
sunset-pink. Amongst the throng were Colonel and
Mrs. F. A. Hughes {he has been appointed aide to
Governor-General Isaacs), Lieut, and Mrs. G. H.
Mocatta, Betty Hugall and Kathleen St. John.
Mrs. C. P. Curlewis, whose husband has just been
appointed to the secretaryship of the Sugar Pro-
ducers’ Association, was the guest of honor at a tea
given by the association in Rowe’s. Mrs. T. W.
Crawford, wife of Senator Crawford, president of
the association, was hostess. Mrs. Curlewis wore a
fawn tweed tailor-made with ermine collar.
To celebrate the anniversary of their marriage in
1878, the P. F. Calcinos were given a surprise
party at their home, Mayne House, Mayne. P. F.
Calcino, now 84, came here in 1876 to undertake
the planting and overseeing of a vineyard; he
was also an expert in the silkworm industry.
Four sons are in pastoral pursuits in West Queens-
land, where their parents lived until lately. Mrs.
Calcino arrived in Queensland in 1873 ; she was
a young widow with two little boys when she >met
and married her present husband. There aie six
sons, four . daughters, 30 grandchildren and seven
great-grandchildren.
The James Elms couple—both in their eighties—
celebrated their diamond wedding at the Oddfellows
Hall, Albion, with dancing , and music. The husband
was born at Bristol and the wife in Durham ; they
arrived in Queensland in 1878.
Some expensive furs were in evidence at the Too-
woomba Turf Club’s races. Mrs. A. Higgins had a
full-length coat of brown fox; Mrs. Bruce Smith’s
fawn musquash was worn with a red hat; Mrs.
Spencer Roberts had a peschanilki coat with collar of
skunk ; Mrs. Farquar McKenzie sported a grey mus-
quash over a red frock; Mrs. P. J. Hickeys black
fox coat was worn with a burgundy red hat; Mrs.
Roy Murray’s brown musquash had a skunk collai ,
Keene Cullen wore a suede coat of Egyptian red
over her powder-blue gown; and Kathleen Connolly
had a ’ marmot coat. Altogether it was a day of
wraps.
The annual dance. of the Great Public Schools’
rowing clubs was held in Rowe’s banqueting hall.
Crossed oars were on a background of draped
pennants; sweet-peas and pink and crimson roses
adorned the tables in the Wintergarden. The
“Courier” Cup, won by the G.P.S., was presented to
Mr. R. C. Gregory, the stroke, by D. T. Beatson,
chairman of the Queensland Rowing Association.
And some from Adelaide: —
At Tattersall’s races, chairman P. J. Flannagan
and his wife presided over the committee
tea. Mrs. Flannagan favored a black tailored coat
with a close-fitting black felt hat and a silver fox
fur. The Moulden lady sported a Lido-blue polo
coat and a small hat to match. Others present
put up a record in black or flecked tweed, and the
fortunate ones defied the chilly blast in fur coats.
The Sidney Kidmans, with their daughter, Mrs.
Sidney Reid, leave on a five-weeks’ trip to Cairns
this week.
A new night club was opened in Adelaide last
week. The daughter of William Horn, manager of
the Bank of Australasia, has been engaged to play
official hostess at “The Plaza,” formerly a ware-
house of G. and R. Wills, on North-terrace. There
was a crowded attendance at the opening by Dorothy
Brunton, after the theatre. The Lavington Bonythons
brought a party, and the J. H. Morishs entertained
some 30-odd of their son’s friends. Fred Ward is
manager, and his charming wife was busy in the
box office.
, The Movie Ball, the ninth annual affair, drew a
good crowd to the Palais Royal. Helpers of two
charities which benefited, the Mothers’ and Babies’
Health Association and the Adelaide Hospital
Auxiliary, sold flowers, balloons and novelties.
From the back of the North Wind :
At a recent Chinese wedding, that of Edith Chin
Quee and Teddy Moo, the ’groom, in green silk robes,
with red sashes looped round his shoulders and a
grey felt hat adorned with bouquets of Chinese
artificial flowers, quite eclipsed the bride, who merely
wore pink, with a red veil. The feasting lasted for
three days.
Miss Mary Stearn and George Anson were made
one in the Methodist Church soon after the bride’s
arrival from the South. She had been a passenger
on the Malabar, and many of her wedding-gifts are
on the floor of - Kong Bay. But the church was
beautifully decorated, and many friends of the young
couple sent gifts to make up for the lost ones.
Died last month, at 47, Valentine Augustus Litch-
field, a resident of the Territory for 24 years. His
widow is editor of the “Northern Territory Times.”


WM
iilll
m
a
V
enumt
PRICE REDUCTION
HOSIERY
The economies effected through increased production together with further improvements
in factory efficiency, have once again enabled Prestige Limited to set new standards in
hosiery manufacture, and it is in strict accordance with their policy of passing on to the
consumer the benefit of reduced costs, that they now take pleasure in announcing to the
public the following new and phenomenal values in Prestige Hosiery.
Service and Medium Weights
Style No. 500 —A particular favourite of women
who prefer stockings just in between Light Sheers
and Medium Service Weights. Full Fashioned, 45
gauge. Pure Silk to Welt. Were 10/6 per pair, now
a
Style No. 300—A new creation in Service Weights
for the woman who requires a stocking a little
heavier than our No. 500. Produced on the new
price basis for quality stockings. Per pair
811
Style No. 800 —Prestige No. 800 at 14/11 has been
the STANDARD OF VALUE in the Hosiery trade.
To wear No. 800 is to be well dressed. Now as a
Service Weight Pure Silk Stocking it creates a new
HOSIERY STANDARD. Per pair
IK
Style No.FFI —A Premier Quality Pure Silk from
top to toe Full Fashioned stocking of excellent Ser-
vice Weight. Originally 18/11 per pair, now
I4'n
Style No. 700—A Fully Fashioned Service Weight
Stocking of Pure Silk reinforced with fine Rayon.
Were 9/11 per pair, now
7ii
The Genuine Price Reduction also includes—
Style No. 400 —A stocking of beauty and refinement specially created to meet the
requirements of the most sophisticated tastes. Fully Fashioned, Highest-grade Pure Silk
throughout, with dainty Picot Edge and Lace Clox. Were 25/6 per pair, now 21/-
Style No. 4Ql—Similar to No. 400 and of the same superlative quality but without the
Lace Clox. Were 22/6 per pair, now 18/11
For Those Who Prefer Lighter Weights
Style No. 600— Fully Fashioned, fine gauge Pure Silk throughout with Picot Edge. A
Service Sheer with remarkable wearing qualities. Were 17/6 per pair, now 12/11
cprestige maintains the same standard of quality at the reduced prices
uy BRANDED GOODS
A manufacturer of quality merchandise brands his goods in order that
the public may readily distinguish them. The brand is proof of his
confidence in his product: and is an earnest of his good faith with the
purchaser. A proprietary brand is a hall-mark.
“ . . . There is hardly anything in the world that some men cannot make a little worse and sell a
little cheaper. And the people who consider price only are this man’s lawful prey.”—RUSKIN.
A
QUALITY HOSIERY
<4 j)re<s%e
FULLY
FAS HION E D
ẃ


Healthy Hair Will
Grow Only on a
Healthy Scalp
Keep your scalp in good
condition by shampooing reg-
ularly with a liquid soap made
by dissolving shavings of
Cuticura Soap in a little
hot water. Rinse thoroughly
in tepid water. If there is any
dandruff or irritation of the
scalp, the shampoo should be
preceded by an application of
Cuticura Ointment.
Cuticura
Soap
and
Ointment
Soap Is. Ointment la. and 2s. Talcum
Ib. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S.W.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
127-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
I
j
(Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
/ Tariff. Day- Week.
Jingle Boom and Meals .. .. 26/- 1687-
Double Room and Meals .. .. 45/- 300/-
3ingle Room and Breakfast .. 15/- 100/-
Double Room and Breakfast .. 27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: A NIGHT OUT.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE CALENDAR.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE YEOMEN OP THE GUARD.
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
TIVOLI: ROYAL ROUTINE REVUE.
also
OVERSEAS CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
For Sale.
A QUANTITY of old Bulletins for
sale, 35 to 40 years old. What offer?
—C. F. TAYLOR, 107 Burlington Street,
Crow’s Nest, North Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Re W. HUNTER—deceased
TV/ILL EVA MAY HUNTER (nee
” Murray), wife of William Hunter, or
anyone knowing her whereabouts or of
her death, pleasd communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart, Tasmania.
ARE WE BEING SAVED? NO!
What did the Premiers’ Conference
really do for Australia?
See “THE BARRIER MINER” of
last Saturday, the Best Daily Paper
of its size in Australia.
The Far West people rarely see
metropolitan papers, and never miss
them. They get “THE BARRIER
MINER,” published at Broken Hill.
Legal Notice.
liN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 629 of 1929.
Between GEORGE JAMES HOWARTH Petitioner
And HARRIETT ELSIE HOWARTH Respondent
And JAMES GREEN & BELFORD McGARRITY
Go-Respondents
To BELFORD McGARRITY late of Cabramatta in
the State of New South Wales and to JAMES GREEN
late of Wollongong New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said George James
Howarth has commenced a suit against the above-
named Respondent in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of his marriage with
the said Harriett Elsie Howarth on the ground of
her adultery with each of you. AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the seventeenth day of September
next and in the event of your not so doing within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
Dated this 29th day of June, 1931.
For the Registrar,
(Signed) C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Charles A. Morgan Doust & Co.,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
134 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
Welbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Ten Rooms
Phone C[?] [?] for [?]
Buokley [?]
[?]
The send-off to Lord and Lady Somers,
though staged amid fog and rain, was
a cordial affair, thousands braving the
weather and assembling at the halting-places
of the farewell vice-regal tour of the city.
The couple went from Stonington to the
police depot on St. Kilda-road by motor-car,
and then changed over to .'the State coach,
which had the hood down, the rain having
temporarily ceased. At State Government
House Girl Guides and Boy Scouts were to
the fore. Various town halls were visited.
At Malvern the Tramways band made cheer-
ful sounds, and at South Melbourne and Port
Melbourne hundreds of children, waving
flags, joined the procession, marching beside
the State coach to the pier. Parliament
House was visited, and leave taken of the
gathered members. Mounted police served
as van- and rear-guard, and Light Horse-
men, with red-and-white pennons on their
lances, formed an escort that made a gallant
showing. Lady Somers was well wrapped in
a mink fur cot, with a cocoa-brown felt
hat.
At the pier, where a red carpet was spread,
there was a tremendous crowd. Lads
who had been companions with his Ex. at
the Somers camp lifted their voices in camp
songs. Premier Hogan and other Parlia-
mentarians and representatives of civic,
religious and philanthropic bodies wore there
to grasp the v.-r. hands in farewell. Presents
of flowers and other gifts were piled in their
Exes.’ cabins in the Orsova. When Lord
Somers went aboard a 17-gun salute pro-
claimed the end of his term of office; the
band played the Anthem. The crowds sang
“Auld Lang Syne” as the boat drew out, and
Lord and Lady Somers, with their daughter
Elizabeth, holding streamers, waved their
adieus to an accompaniment of cheers and
coo-ees. Flight-Lieutenant Denny and Miss
Prebble, Elizabeth’s governess, accompany
the ex-Governor and his wife on their jour-
ney. Captain Speir and his sister, Miss
Spoir, who are going back to England by way
of Canada, left on Wednesday for Sydney to
join their boat.
At the Melbourne Hunt Club’s race meet-
ing at Moonee Valley, the star item of the
programme was the Melbourne Hunt Steeple-
chase for amateur riders, which was won by
Scotland Star, owned by R. M. Cuthbert-
son, hon. sec. of the Findon Harriers, and
ridden by L. Batten. There were many fair
followers to the ’chase to urge their knights to
victory, and the general public was there in
fair numbers. The wintriest of apparel was
worn, furs, thick coats and a good scattering
of tweeds making up the dress parade. Rain
threatened, though it didn’t do more, and
many brightly-colored leather coats were on
view. Kathleen Rogers Thomson was so
attired, in red, with matching beret; and
Mrs. A. Campbell, daughter of the Ben
Chaffeys, wore one of vivid blue with mil-
linery of the same color. Mrs. Claude Grice
was there in a top-coat patterned in brown
and fawn, with brown felt hat; Mr. Grice
rode his horse Extortion into third place in
the steeplechase. Among hunt-club members
who watched the racing were Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Moore, Major-General Johnston, L.
Byrne, the Pennefathers, Marie Mackinnon
and Hylda McCardel. Others in the throng
were Major and Mrs. Rupert Fanning, E. C.
Robertson, master of the Oaklands, deputy-
master W. H. Magennis and Mrs. Magennis,
Mrs. Orme Foster, Iris Connolly, Dorothy
and Hazel Foster and Hazel Menck, Mrs.
Edmund Collins, of Frankston, and her
daughters Cynthia and Norme.
Fine weather and the prospect of good
sport lured a big crowd to Moonee Valley
on Saturday. There were many guests
at the official luncheon, and roses from
chairman Alister Clark’s garden radiated
beauty and fragrance over the damask. There
was a deal of smart dressing, rendered gay
by coat posies of orchids and other season-
able blooms. Premier Hogan’s wife looked
her best in a black coat and skirt bordered
with broad tail and topped by a black velvet
hat. Mrs. Gordon Chirnside, who was with
Mrs. C. M. Stodart, wore heather tweed
with toque of the same material. With Dr.
and Mrs. J. S. Merrillees were Mrs. E. O.
Kirby, of Mugbool station, Mt. Gambier, and
Miss Pick from the same locality. The A.
E. Kimptons; Mrs. W. P Mein, who was
wrapped in a mink coat allied to a brown
felt hat; Mr. and Mrs. .1. F. Nagle, she in
mushroom brown with millinery to match;
the A. V. Ivewneys, Mrs. Alec McCracken,
Mrs. A. V. Hiskins, the Harold Andersons,
J. B. McArthurs and W. Rogers Thomsons
were others who watched a good afternoon’s
racing.
A little white casket containing Nellie
Stewart’s ashes, reminiscent of those in the
casket scene of “The Merchant of Venice,”
was all that the members of the crowded
congregation at St. Peter’s on Saturday
morning had to look upon as they mourned
the passing of the famous actress. It rested
on a white velvet cushion on the catafalque,
with lighted tapers about it and flowers piled
high. Someone, remembering “Sweet Nell,”
sent a basket of oranges with camellias
mixed in. Pansies and violets were there in
profusion—even a heart of crimson carna-
tions —but very few white blossoms. Other-
wise there were none of the usual funereal
trappings; the attendants wore white coats
and Miss Stewart’s relatives carried bouquets.
Canon Hughes reminisced about the first occa-
sion, in the ’seventies, when he, as a boy,
was taken to see Nellie Stewart; the
Stewart family was giving all the show at
the Haymarket Theatre. The male choristers
of the Gilbert and Sullivan co. sang “The
Long Day Closes,” and the congregation
joined them in “Abide with Me.” The
organist played the “Londonderry Air” as the
casket was carried from the church to the
waiting hearse after the service. Beside
Canon Hughes, the Rev. Father Maynard,
vicar of St. Peter’s, who is chaplain of the
Actors’ Society, was present, and Bishop
Halse had a seat in the apse. The casket
was placed in the family vault at Booroon-
dara Cemetery, Kew.
Among those in the church were Mrs.
Mayne Lynton (Nancye Stewart), Madame
Chambossier (Docy Stewart, sister of
Nellie), Dick Stewart, Herbert Collins (a
nephew), and representatives of all theatrical
companies, including almost a full muster of
the Gilbert and Sullivan co. The crowds
about the church grounds and streets were
largely composed of folk who had known the
actress in her prime.
Students of Trinity College danced at St.
Kilda Town Hall, where the Warden, Dr.
J. C. V. Behan, and Mrs. Behan extended
welcoming hands. The lady’s russet-brown
moire gown was finished with a tulle hem.
Principals of the w'ithin-the-Uni. colleges
were official guests. Enid Joske, of Janet
Clarke Hall, danced in jade-blue satin, and
Mrs. W. Ivcrnick wore black chiffon figured
with pink blossoms. Lynette Dickenson
favored satin of a new tint of pale brown,
and Lois Ritchie, of the Apple Isle, was in
sapphjre-blue velvet. Mary Smith’s biscuit
organdie was w r orn with a sash of blue
velvet. Barbara Bryan was one of the
many robed in white satin. Mrs. Fred
Knight chose a chalk-white frock very
effectively cut. Dull-gold satin was swathed
about Roma Smith, and among other smartly-
attired girls were Atidrey Poolman, Garda
Howse and Nell Healy, a recent debutante.
This is Lilian, daughter of Mrs. A. C.
Fraser, of Surrey Hills. Miss Fraser is a
recent recruit
to Lucy
A lion’s Stu-
dent Theatre
Society, and
is to make her
debut w* it h
these amateur
mummers in
S i e g f r i ed’s
play “By
C a ndlelight,”
being cast for
the role of the
Countess von
Baltin. Her
a c tivities
in connection
with the
C h i 1 d ren’s
Hospital have
gained her a
life governor-
ship of that
institution.
A jolly little hop was put on at the Rex by
the St. Kilda Auxiliary of the Alfred Hos-
pital. The dance committee was headed by
Mrs. Hallenstein, who danced in black
velvet, the hon secs, being Elsie Champion
and June Joshua, and the treasurer Joan Hill.
Ballets were presented by the amateurs who
appeared in the revue “Youth and Laughter”
a couple of weeks ago.
Old pupils of Tintern C. of E. Girls’
Grammar School had their dance at the
Hawthorn Town R'all. The school's scholar-
ship fund received the profits. The presi-
dent of the 0.G.A., Mrs. Joseph Love, was
hostess.
The Caulfield Auxiliary of the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital engineered a dance at the
suburb’s Town Hall which was attended by
500. Mrs. K. B. Edgar and Dulcie Roberts
secretaried, and Lud Mayor and Mayoress
I.uxton, Mayor Ritchie, of Caulfield, and
his wife werp guests.
The ball of the Old Collegians’ Club of
the M.L.C. at St. Kilda Town Hall brought
to light eight debs., in fluffy white frocks,
carrying posies of red berries and blossoms.
They made their curtsies to Mrs. Grove,
wife of the principal of the college. Blanche
Wood, whose frock was of primrose-yellow
hue, and Stella Robinson, who wore deep
pink satin, were secretaries of the hop.
Mrs. E. T. Bailey, president of the club,
and Edith Barker, hon. sec., were there.
The younger members of the Austin Hos-
pital’s Hawthorn Auxiliary staged a bridge
party at the home of the Misses Robinson.
Mrs. Broad Hall, president, and Mrs. H.
Pacini, secretary, were there, and the in-
stitution received a substantial sum.
At Ormond Hall during the week cards
lured helpers of the Tweddle Hospital and
Home of Mothercraft together. About 200
players answered the call issued by Mrs.
Edgar Dye, Mrs. J. W. Springthorpe and
May Rimmington; and found, also, some
stray coins for the purchase of flowers
and etceteras for the cause.
A bridge party at Loclifoyne, Toorak,
helped the funds of the Queen Victoria
Hospital. Esme Allee and some assistants
collected a little extra with sales of attrac-
tive wares. Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot and Kath-
leen Moore were hon. secs.
The Cairns Memorial Dram. Soc., formed
in 1923, is the veteran of Melbourne’s
amateur cos.
performing for
cliu r c h and
charity. It
notched 100 on
its tally of
p r o d u c tions
yesterday when
it put on Noel
Coward’s
comedy “The
Young Idea,”
and it num-
bers among its
laurels first
prizes for one-
act-play pre-
sentations at
the last Gee
long and Ben
digo competi
tions. Tessit
Cox, pictured
here by Lafay
ette, has had
three years with the co., and is Gerda in
“The Young Idea.”
Eric Chaseling, an Australian Airways
pilot, came down to earth the other day long
enough to be linked to Josephine, daughter
of J. 11. Kelley, of Broken Hill. The con-
tract was signed at the Collins-street kirk.
Margot Best, in soft blue with matching
velvet millinery and carrying a sheaf of
pink roses, attended the bride, whose biscuit-
colored crepe de Chine had a topping of
tulle of the same shade. Yellow roses fur-
nished her bouquet. The happy man is the
elder son of the Rev. and Mrs. J. H. Chase-
ling, of Sydney.
Dorothy, elder daughter of the W. D.
Disliers, of East Malvern, kept her tryst
at the altar with Dr. Eric A. Eddy, of
Finley (N.S.W.), clad in ivory velvet of the
tint of old lace, with a tulle veil anchored
to her coiffure by orange-buds. Two ’maids
were in champagne-tinted velvet, and the
train-bearers sported chiffon frocks of the
same shade.
A recently-announced engagement that has
caused a bit of a flutter in sporting circles
is that of Gwen, only daughter of Major-
General Johnston, of Caulfield, and Ken-
neth Moore, second son of Mrs. C. Moore,
of Orrong-road, Toorak. Miss Johnston is
an enthusiastic follower of hounds, and the
owner of racehorses that have won several
good stakes for her both locally and in
Sydney. She lately gained an air pilot’s
license. Her fiance is a brother of Charles
Moore, master of the Melbourne Hunt Club,
and is a club member. The announcement
was made after the run of the Findon Har-
riers on Friday.
A few lines from Westralia :
That hardy stand-by Geraldton waxplant is already
bursting out of its knobby pink and white buds.
Sprays of the shrub, each twig hung with little
smiling-faced flowers, gave a promise of early spring
at the Mount’s Bay Sailing Club’s dance. In the
absence of Mrs. Louis Joubert, Mrs. Garland took
the helm in ashes-of-roses georgettes strewn with gold
insertions. Joint secretaries Freda Wilson and Myrtle
Webster wore black and tiers of lime-green respec-
tively. Eleanor Holland favored salmon-pink taffetas;
Betty Clements wore a befrilled skirt to her crimson
satin garment; Miss Eastmon was in blue and Bobbie
Tulloch in floral chiffons.
Mrs. Jordan left by the Largs Bay to join her
6ft. Sin. “Tiny,” .of the Air Force. The
couple will, live at Bedford for a year.
Perth’s newest social club goes under the quaint
nainj. of E.E.E.Es. (intended to represent “For Ease”).
Soup, hot coffee and other amenities can be procured
at the clubhouse in gale-swept Cottesloe. Keith
Calthrop is secretary, and a series of dinner-dances
is projected.
Mrs. John Forrest had a bevy of youth and beauty
to dance at her Mount-street home in honor of
daughter Mary. She made her young guests welcome
in a cloud of flame georgettes and Mary was a
golden glow in corn-shaded satin. Elizabeth Kerr-
Pearse, Mary Wittenoom, Greta Cockram, Mollie
Noble, Ursula Burt, Nancy McCulloch, Max Noble,
Harry Chandler and Brian Beresford were some of
those who chased the blues and the cold away.
Another jollo for young things was that given
at the G. O. Haywood household in Crawley for
Joan, just turned 21. Rose georgettes and lace blew
about the evening’s most important person.
Back after several years spent abroad, Mrs.
Frank Robertson and daughter Jean. Mrs. Robert-
son’s son John Fox, known in the profession as
John Juan, and his wife Zelda, who moves like a
fluff of thistledown, have danced their way to highly-
paid contracts on the boards of the Cold Land.
Pauline, youngest daughter of the T. J. Cornwall
couple, of Wagin, has given her promise to Rupert,
elder son of Colonel and Mrs. Byron.
Wee lads and lassies, pop-eyed with anticipation, came
to the Caledonian Society’s annual dance for juveniles.
Mayoress Lathlain was handed a box of chocolates
by a small kilted girl. Among the flock of follies,
golliwogs, a wedding cake, a bonny pair of old-age
pensioners, roosters, bunnies, penguins and best-
dressed Highlanders, a tableful of prizes was dis-
tributed.
Clever Norma Parker, who has been doing post-
graduate psychological work in Washington and Los
Angeles, arrived home this week. But it was a
sad and a hurried homecoming; her father died a
few days after she sailed from America.
Tassie’s little lot:—
The Show at Campbell Town was followed by
several shivoos. The Hunt Club had a well-attended
meet and a great run; later in the day
there was a gymkhana in aid of the hospital.
Next came the Show dance at Powell’s Hall,
organised by a committee of tennis enthusiasts,
with Mrs. Crosby Lyne as hon. sec. Supper
was served in the annexe on tables blushful
with late roses in crystal vases. Among the throng
were Mrs. John and Mrs. Lister Foster, Mrs.
Crosby Lyne, Mrs. T. W. H. Clarke, the Alan
Camerons, the Athol Nicolsons, Mrs. Fraser-Alien,
Mrs. Clive Fisken, Mrs. Cyril Lewis with daughter
Margaret, Mrs. Alfred Youl, the Harry Bayleys, the
Alfred Bennetts, the King Clarkes, the David Tay-
lors, Misses E. Mackinnon, Dorothy Foster, Zelda
B'isdee, Betty Oldrey, Margot McCausland, Muriel
Wigan, M. Stephens, Allison Taylor, Mary Taylor,
Meg Cameron and the Bennett girls.
Clemes College had a flutter at its reunion, with
sports, dinner at Hadley’s and a dance. The head
(W. H. Clemes) presided at the dinner. The dance
was more of a young folks’ affair. Supper was
served in the school dining-room, where the green,
brown and gold of the college colors were featured
in marigolds and chrysanthemums.
The Repertory Society played Sierra’s comedy
“The Romantic Young Lady”—not a particularly
alluring title in these days—to full houses for
three nights. Olive Wilton filled the part of
Dona Barbarita with finish and charm. Alison
Page and W. K. Nicolson were not markedly con-
vincing lovers; Miss Lane’s representation of the
crabbed but faithful maid was excellent. L.
Dechaineux and his pupils were responsible for the
clever representations of Spanish scenes, in tapestry
effect, which decorated the walls.
Thomson Flynn, Professor of Biology at Tas.
University, has accepted the Chair of Zoology at
Queen’s University, Belfast. The professor, a native
of N.S.W., has been with us for 22 years.
A cable from England told of the marriage of
Peggy, second daughter of the Richard Cranes, of
Hobart, and the Rev. Cecil Muschamp, formerly of
Hobart, now stationed at Aldershot. The bride was
given away by an old friend who had been her
father’s best man; the knot was tied by another old
friend, Bishop Stephen, while Mrs. Stephen and many
Tasmanian friends were present. Phyllis Stephen
’maided.
Mrs. Tom Lyons, daughter Sybil and Helen Gray
have returned from Colombo, along with Mrs. John
Clarke and her infant. Mrs. Clarke is having a three
months’ spell in the Speck after two years in Rangoon.


\\//
\
.. <i v
> /.:
f \ %
V- P i j\ if \\ *»"*y
• iUwli ';.•
! V$
f"' £*>
Vst*^
I
flflflflnrfntow
Unperturbed
ẅ
REX-PYE is famous for
its quality; for we use only
the choicest raw materials.
Note the delicate aroma as
you open the can and the
delicious flavour as you eat
the dainty.
REX
Foggitt Jones Pty. Limited
EVE
m
JUXY
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon
HOT POT WITH REX-PYE.
lib. Rex-Pye, 1 large onion, pepper and salt,
3 or 4 potatoes peeled and sliced. Masli Rex-Pye,
add minced onion and pepper and salt to taste.
Place in greased piedish and moisten with a little
gravy. Make a top layer with potatoes, dredge
on a little flour and cook in moderate oven.
REX-PYE TURNOVERS.
lib. tin of Rex-Pye, Boz. flour, 4oz. Rex
dripping, pepper and salt, 1 egg. Mash Rex-Pye
and season to taste. Put flour in bowl with pinch
of salt and mix, add dripping and rub well
through. Make a hole in centre and mix with
water to a stiff paste. Turn on to well-floured
board, roll out, cut in rounds; place a little Rex-
Pye on half the round, moisten the edges, fold
over the other half, press edges together, brush
with beaten egg and fry in deep dripping.
Note: If preferred, place on greased baking-tin
and cook in hot to moderate oven.
REX-PYE DORMERS.
lib. tin of Rex-Pye, 2oz. Rex dripping, 2 cups
boiled rice, 1 egg, pepper and salt, crisp bread-
crumbs. Mash Rex-Pye, add dripping, rice,
pepper and salt to taste, and mix well. Roll up
as sausages, brush over with beaten egg, cover in
breadcrumbs, fry in deep dripping to a rich
brown.
REX-PYE DUTCH CUTLETS.
lib. tin Rex-Pye. 1 onion, l cupful bread-
crumbs, pepper, salt, 1 yolk of egg, 1 cup brown
gravy. Mix together Rex-Pye, breadcrumbs,
minced onion, salt and pepper to taste and lastly
the beaten yolk of egg. Flatten out oval shape
and place in greased piedish with slices of Rex
bacon laid on top. Add gravy, cover over with
greased paper and bake in moderate oven for 1
hour. Ten minutes before taking out remove
paper.
w
These Recipes are from the REX Recipe Book. Write for the book, and mention “The Bulletin.”


BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 507-
merchants AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
|S§portin§
NOTES-TIPS- RESULTS,,
H E AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES-G!
Patents.
A METHOD OR PROCESS OF
OPERATING AUGERS.
’THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 16257/20 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A PAPER CUP AND
BLANK FOR MAKING THE SAME.
■"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 12914/23 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A SANITARY
PAPER CUP MAKING MACHINE.
"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 2378/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make,, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MACHINES FOR
MAKING REINFORCED SANITARY
CUPS.
HTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 2376/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, . York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Kenny.— if louisa and John and
BAYLEE KENNY, children of Wil-
liam and Louisa Kenny and niece and
nephews of the late Baylee Henry Rogers,
will communicate with THE EQUITY
TRUSTEES CO., LTD., of 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, they will hear something
to their advantage.
The above children were last heard of in
Platina, New South Wa-les, about 30 years
ago. . ___
AY/LLL anyone knowing the address of
W GEORGE WILLIAM JOHN
MARTIN, who left Hobart, Tasmania, 22
years ago, last heard of in New South Wales
seven years ago, please communicate with
JACK MARTIN, Butcher, Morrison Street,
Hobart.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
One* third of Queensland's
Entire Population .
* * #
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is<
approximately,
6 8 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* # *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marhet, from :
Che Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
'Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3906.
London Agent*" H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. j
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ' Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manages —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland arid Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ this
Bank offers the fullest facilities fo.r the transaction .of all general banking, business.
rg
■&*
BY I XL
ACETYLENE
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY !
Complete Lighting Installations through-
out the Home. Economical to Install
and Maintain. The hottest gas-flame
known for Cooking and Heating.
yd
&
o
£
$
o
o
et
To Messrs. H. Jones & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
G.P.O. Box 639 “D,” HOBART.
Please send me free booklet “Modern
Acetylene Lighting and Heating.”
Address.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy tbe things that delighted an earlier one.
Rudolph, of Austria, a sort of combination
archduke and crown prince, died unexpectedly
last week. The deceased prince was a man
of no ordinary character, as is evidenced by
the- fact that ever since he was dead he has
kept on dying over and over again, and in
the course of a week he has perished enough
to kill a whole town. He died first of
apoplexy, and he was also shot with acute
rheumatism and dynamited with a bow and
arrow. He got wet, and also got sunstroke,
and further he died of violent revolver
brought on through exposure to somebody
with firearms w 7 ho had a grievance against
him. We have not jumped to these con-
clusions, but have investigated the subject
carefully and arrived at our decision by pro-
SOUND ADVICE.
SHEARER : “And, boys, however much ye may be inthimi-
dated or timpted by threats,' niver soign a verbal
agrayment!” [15/11/’90.]
tracted tram-car, as it were ; and after deep
research, we have finally ascertained that
the deceased prince fell over a baked-potato
barrow and landed heavily on his generous
red ear with fatal results. He ate something
dead which set up internal inflammation of
some organ with a name which it would kill
anybody to pronounce, and on top of this
disaster he broke both his legs while wash-
ing his head, and his intellect suddenly gave
way just as he- was putting on a clean
collar, in consequence of which he dropped
down dead with a loud shriek which he paid
another man to utter for him in order to
encourage local industry. In his last hours
he was tripped up by a small boy with a
string, which is believed to have hastened his
end. The deceased prince always slept on
the floor after fastening up the bed-curtains
to keep the mosquitoes inside, and his death
resulted from having stepped on a tin tack
that somebody had hung up on the floor,
which supplies an eloquent warning to people
who look for nails with their feet; though,
according to other authorities, he was the
victim of a secret society for the purpose of
keeping up the price of meat, and was
blown up by hand. In his last hours he was
attended by a Christian scientist and a horse
doctor, whom he implored with his last
breath to wear flannel in the winter. The
late archduke was a good young man, and
was accustomed to give away tracts to the
poor, which probably had something to do
with his early death. It isn’t certain that he
is dead yet, but a good many people suppose
so, and others don’t think that it is pro-
bable*’; and in many quarters doubts are
expressed about there ever having been such
a person at all. [l6/2/’B9.]
Some of tlie Victorian railway stations
have very queer and evil-sounding names.
At Benalla station one night a rather dear
old clergyman ventured to ask the porter
where the train then standing at the plat-
form was bound for. “Goorambat, Noora-
munga, Devenisli and Tungamah,” replied
the porter. “Good gracious!” exclaimed the
rev. gentleman, “how dare you use such
dreadful language when I ask you a civil
question? I shall report you!”—and it
took a considerable effort on the part of the
stationmaster to appease his wrath and
explain the matter away.
A Bourke (N.S.W.) perjury: There’s
lots of snakes about the lagoon, hundreds of
’em. They live round the hanks. The
lagoon has nearly dried up now, you know,
after this blessed drought. These hundreds
and hundreds of snakes formed a long single
file between the lagoon and the river, 300
or 400 yards off; down the bank went the
leader, and when he got to the edge of the
water evidently cried halt! for the line ot
vipers stopped at once. Each snake now
proceeded to swallow his predecessor’s tail,
and the shortening in the line was filled
up by the spare snakes. When all had their
mouths filled with tail the order was given,
and, like winking, each snake shed his skin
and crawled out. The shed skins formed a
line of hose which, acting like a siphon,
drew the water from the river to the lagoon
and filled it up again. It has kept it full
to date, and that’s a fact. [2/2/’B9.]
In a certain back-region of N. S. Wales
where every other man is a Ryan and the
intermediate man is a Hoolihan, excepting
only one individual who stands out in soli-
tary state as Malachi O’Grady, a prominent
Irish family recently underwent a bereave-
ment. Mike Hoolihan, after fulfilling the
duties of a husband and a father for 40
years, passed in his brogue and his other
assets to the Recording Angel, and there was
a wake over his remains, and much liquor
was spilt. Most of the town
was there-, and Flanigan,
from the adjacent parish,
came around with a long
symbol of woe on his head
to sorrow over the remains.
He took off his hat, and
dusted it reverently with the
tail of his coat, and then,
depositing it carefully on a
wooden form, he lifted up
his voice and addressed the
corpse: “Ah, Moike!” he
moaned in accents of woe.
“An’ there ye lay, stritched
out in an illigant coffin;
there’s yer melancholy re-
minders, f’r sure, an’ ye’ve
lift all the bhoys behind ye.
Ye was a dacent husband an’
a good father, so ye was, as
is well beknown to all here
pris i n t, incloodin’ Mrs.
Hoolihan an’ the rist o’ the
prisint company. Faith,
many’s the time when we’ve
fallen into the ditch blind
dhrunk together”—one of
the mourners was so much
overcome by the pathos of
the address- that at this
stage he sat down heavily on
Flanigan’s tall hat —“an’ I
wish I was wid yez, so I do,
an’ angels playin’ bootiful
choons on a harp”—here the
mourner * rose off Flanigan’s
' hat, leaving that article a
criished-up wreck like a con-
certina struck by lightning
and run over by a tramcar
—“wid a crown like an illi-
gant golden taypot. An’ now
I must be goin’, an’ I’ll pray
f’r yer sowl, so I will.” Mr.
Flanigan picked tip the shat-
tered debris of his treasured
hat and looked at it incredu-
lously three times, knocked the sat-upon
crown out again with a tremendous
punch, stuck the dismantled weapon on
his head, then took it off and glared
at the company, and finally concluded
in a voice of thunder and madness: “May
the Widder Hoolihan an’ all the prisint com-
pany, inbloodin’ the corpse, all go to the
Divil an’ shtop there.” The visit of con-
dolence terminated without further remark.
[23/2/’B9.]
I [Sappho Smith] saw a feather fan the
other evening with the owner’s initials
formed with green-gold beetles. [2/2/’B9.]
TO NELLIE.
Ma Mie Rosette,
Fairest and brightest
Vision of visions that eyes ever met!
Queen among stars in stage firmament set!
Ma Mie Rosette,
Hearts thou delightest,
Love thou invitest —
Blame not the monarch who seeks such a
pet.
Other kings’ morals are scarce of the whitest,
Ma Mie Rosette.
Ma Mie Rosette.
Ma Mie Rosette,
Waking or sleeping
iCan we forget
All the sweet graces we noted whilst peeping
Through a lorgnette,
Ma Mie Rosette?
Never, till Nature claims payment of debt,
And songless we lie ’neath the willow-tree
weeping,
Out in the wet
(A thing that we’d fain not have happen
just yet),
Ma Mie Rosettfe,
Ma Mie Rosette,
—Melbourne Princess Theatre, June, 189J/.
TWO PASSIONS.
When the pulse of youth sets athrill man’s
veins
There is nought more sweet the wide world
contains
Than the rosebud lips of some wayward girl;
And her lightest wish, or most wanton whim.
Are the levers that sway the world for him!
But the years die fast! The man’s hair
turns grey,
Yet a fiercer love in his heart holds sway;
Whether waking or sleeping, one thought
brings
To him sweetest pleasure—the sharpest
stings;
For he trembles, he knows that Death’s
finger cold
Must sever him soon from his Life—his
Gold!
ZADIG.


r
&
HARDY'S
Sparkling
\ 'i
&
SPA
ses
55
a^ss
-»
! #
1. /rf
-1
# V.
'll IlilJlllllllTOmrtthwr
WINES
th sir Special
Cold Label Still Hiqes
(fJfe result of
« Z 2.
yeanv af uitue growing
arid njakiri
MW
Afipir
•27
SUGAR IS MONEY
PAPUAN RURAL PRODUCTS, LIMITED, Issue of
40,000 £3O Sugar Bonds. Payable £3 deposit, £l monthly.
Plantation selection 20,000 acres at Wanigela, Colling-
wood Bay, N.-E. Division, Papua.
Papua is destined to become the EMPIRE’S SUGAR
GARDEN—
THE CUBA OF AUSTRALIA.
Gold Values can be won from the earth but once—
SUGAR VALUES can be won EVERY year.
The Sugar Cane is indigenous to Papua. The Americans
use Papuan Cane to revivify their crops because it is hardy,
disease-resistant, and a prolific yielder.
In no place in the world can high-quality Cane Sugar be
produced as cheaply as in Papua.
By no other means than the Bond Scheme can the small
investor participate in the great industry—the production of
the world’s most universal food
The Empire shortage of Sugar is 1,700,000 tons a year.
There will ALWAYS be a market. The Papuan Sugar
industry will never have to depend on bounties and embargoes.
PAPUAN RURAL PRODUCTS, LIMITED, will spend
£530,000 on the erection of the LARGEST MILL OUTSIDE
OF CUBA, producing 60,000 tons of sugar yearly. The
return per bond will be £lO per year when the plantation is
in full swing. All fully-paid-up Bonds will be advanced £6
per cent, interest yearly till the first harvest is sold.
“As to Fiji, we have again to report
a severe hurricane heavier than, that re-
ferred to a year ago.”— Mr. E. W. Knox,
Chairman of the C.S.R., at the half-
yearly meeting of shareholders, May 6,
1931.
“Papua is outside the range
qanes that occasionally ravage
southern parts of the Western
— Hon. Stcmi forth Smith, in
Official Handbook.
of hurri-
the more
Pacific.”
Papuan
Beatrice Grimshaw, in her book “The New New Guinea,” says: “In the near
future there can be little doubt that sugar will take ai place superior in
importance to that of rubber, copra or fibres. Papua is pre-eminently by
Nature the sugar country of the South. Planters in Fiji and Queensland
constantly send for sugar cuttings.”
Write for Prospectus to —•
PAPUAN RURAL PRODUCTS, LIMITED
185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Southern Cross Chambers, Collins Street, Melbourne.
T. & G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
195 Murray Street, Perth.
Ferguson Buildings, Civic Square, Auckland.
Also Christchurch, Wellington and Vancouver.
Submarine Tactics.
G. HERMON GILL
TELLS OF THE BATTLE OF WITS BETWEEN
TRANSPORTS AND SUBMARINES AND lIOW CAPTAIN DUNCAN
TRICKED HIS CHIEF ENGINEER.
FOR a fortnight his Majesty’s transport
Hermes had been swinging round her
anchor in Mudros Harbor, in company
with a mixed collection of battleships,
cruisers, troopships, hospital ships, de-
stroyers, submarines and drifters, represen-
tatives of almost every type of modern craft,
with a few ancient survivors from the days
of sail, looking strangely out of place in the
great armada that modern war had called
together.
In the fine landlocked harbor all was
quiet and peaceful. There was an almost
holiday atmosphere about, as though the
fleets had been called together to take part in
a regatta. But the grey hulls of the ships,
the guns overshadowing the cleared decks
of the men-o’-war, the khaki-clad figures
lining the rails of the transports, which
were continually arriving and departing, the
white-painted hospital ships blazoned with
their brilliant red crosses, betokened the
great and tragic venture that was afoot over
the eastern horizon, where the guns muttered
and grumbled unceasingly on the Gallipoli
peninsula.
In the winter daylight, the sun-bit, arid
shore looked dull and uninviting, bare of
vegetation, with rolling sandy hills, here
and there some tents, a column of smoke.
By night the ships spoke to each other with
winking lights, and the hospital ships, bril-
liant in scintillating green, red and white,
shimmered over the still water like palaces
of pleasure instead of penitentiaries of pain.
In Mudros there was a lack of news of
the happenings in the big world outside,
There were occasional rumors. Now and
again a ripple of excitement would surge
in through the harbor entrance from the
wide sea beyond, as when the Southland was
torpedoed when almost within reach of
safety, and beached high and dry on sanc-
tuary’s door-sill. But the general atmosphere
was one of forced inaction, of wasted time,
of monotony.
Day after day Captain Duncan had
crossed to the headquarters ship to see the
naval transport officer, and day after day
had returned with no news of the future
movements of the v Hermes. Consequently it
was with a pleasurable thrill that Mason, the
third mate, received the order to take the
iEgean Sea chart and the deviation-book
to the captain’s room when he returned on
this the fifteenth day.
Captain Duncan swung round in his chair
at Mason’s knock.
“Come in,” he called. “Oh! It’s you,
Mason. Sit down a moment.” He resumed
his study of an official-looking letter, scratch-
ing his short grey hair in perplexity, and
grunting at intervals.
Mason, tall, fair and boyish in appear-
ance, sat on the edge of the settee without
speaking. He had the chart and the devia-
tion-book under his arm, and hung his cap
on his right knee, drumming silently with
his fingers on its white cover and watching,
with a mixture of affection and respect,
the Romanesque profile of his commander.
Here was a man one could look up to.
Every inch a seaman, kindly, with a fatherly
interest in his junior officers —“my boys,”
he called them—earning in full the respect
due to his position. A trifle old-fashioned,
maybe, and a little jealous of the secrets of
the bridge, but a man to trust and admire.
A man of simple faith. A man who could
roar as softly as any sucking dove, or
bellow like Barney’s Bull in good homely
Doric to some order if circumstances
demanded.
The object of Mason’s thoughts broke in
on his reflections. “Have you the chart?”
he asked.
Mason jumped to his feet and spread the
chart out on the table before the captain,
and, with references at intervals to the
letter, Duncan traced a course upon it with
a stubby forefinger.
“Sail at sunset,” he muttered, half to
himself. “Pick up Piperi Island, passing
close to on the north and west sides. . ..
Where the devil’s Piperi Island?.... Ah!
Here we are. Then pass to the west of
Skyropulo, and steer direct for Cape Doro.
H'ug the mainland through Doro Channel,
through Zea Channel, and from a point five
miles west of the southernmost point of
Zea, steer direct for thirty-five north and
twenty-three-ten west —that’ll take us
between Antikithera and Crete —thence-
direct to Alexandria. ‘Enemy submarines
are now reported in the Aegean Sea.’ Losli!
Did we think the Southland was torpedoed
by a Zeppelin? ‘Steam without lights dur-
ing darkness, and zigzag throughout day-
light hours, maintaining maximum speed.’
Aye ! And a damn fine caper yon is without
lights. Where are the parallel rulers?”
He shuffled among the papers on the desk
and found the missing rulers, and, clearing
an unencumbered space for the chart to lie
flat upon, proceeded to lay off the initial
course from Mudros to Piperi.
“South sixty-one west true,” he announced.
“Now !” he took the book from Mason’s out-
stretched hand. “Have we any deviations
courses recently?”
“No, sir,” answered Mason. “It’s been too
overcast since we’ve been here to get any
observations, the same as it was when we
were on the south-westerly courses leaving
the Channel. We allowed five degrees
westerly deviation then, but we haven’t had
a chance to check up for some time.”
“All right.” Captain Duncan turned again
to the chart. “We’ll have to allow five
degrees west for the time. That’s five west
deviation, three west variation”—he worked
a little sum in neat pencilled figures on the
edge of the chart—“eight degrees westerly
error. That’ll make the compass course
ry-nine west. We’ll check that if
ier clears. Meantime we’ll have
i sharp lookout for yon island—
-5 name?.... Piperi—in case that
is out. That’ll do now, Mr. Mason,
econd mate to get the charts ready.
Oh! And you might tell the mate and the
chief engineer I’d like to see them.”
Some twelve hours later, Mr. Ullathorne,
the chief engineer of the Hermes, stood in
the alleyway at the engine-room door and
knocked his pipe out into a calloused hand.
He was an undersized man with an over-
sized head on which he habitually perched
a cap two or three sizes too small for it. His
nature was. contrary and his disposition quar-
relsome. H'e carried his contrariness to the
extent of being an Englishman—and a Lon-
doner to boot —in the face of all established
precedent for ships’ engineers, but, for all
that, he was a good one. He spoke with a
vile Cockney accent, talked to the firemen
with a flow of invective that equalled their
own, bullied his engineers, and bickered with
the bridge on all possible subjects and occa
sions. Consequently there were extensive
changes in his engine-room staff each voyage,
and the head office of the line was being
called upon constantly to adjudicate on
various points of difference between Mr.
Ullathorne and the captains he had sailed
with. But he was a good engineer, and
good engineers are valuable men.
He had not been shipmates with Duncan
before, but his fame had preceded him, and
the Old Man had sworn dourly when he
had been told in the office that Danny Ulla-
thorne was to be his chief engineer.
“He’s a deeficult man, a gey deeficult man
tae get along wi’, Captain; Ah ken that
fine,” old Henderson, the managing director,
had said. “But ye maun be tactful wi’ him.
He’s a guid engineer, an’ Ah no want tae part
wi’ him. For a’ that, he kens Ah’m no exactly
pleased wi’ his behavior altaegither, an’ he’ll
tak’ notice o’ that. But Ah look tae you tae
presairve harmony as far as ye can.” Which
Duncan, by the exercise of tact, but not with-
out some heartburnings, had managed to do.
Ullathorne’s ugly seamed face creased into
a grin as he stood at the engine-room door.
He had just had a row with the fourth over
the question of steam, and had left that
harassed gentleman in a state of flurry that
pleased him greatly. He nodded his head
in time with the even, powerful throb of
the twin reciprocating engines driving the old
Hermes at an unaccustomed seventeen knots.
She pulsated along her length with a steady
beat in rhythm with their song.
Mudros, with its armada, Mudros the clear-
ing house for the charnel house, lay astern.
Piperi Island lay some ten miles ahead.
Ullathorne walked from the alleyway !
on to the after well-deck, and stared over
the port bulwark. Thp night was moon-
less and still, with a smooth untroubled
sea under an overcast sky. In spite of the
darkness, the atmosphere was clear and the
visibility fair. It was, reflected Ullathorne,
an ideal night for a submarine attack. A
submarine could lie in the- path of the
Hermes, seeing, but itself unseen, and tor-
pedo her as she passed. With no chance
for the Hermes to hit back with the four-point
seven she had mounted on the poop, either.
It was an unpleasant thought, and a
shiver ran down Mr. Ullathorne’s baok.
“Someone walking over me grave,” he mut-
tered to himself, and shivered again. One
of the gunners keeping watch aft, strolled
to the fore-end of the poop and looked
down on to the well-deck. He was whistling
softly, “Tipperary,” and it gave Ullathorne
a warmer sense of security.
Not a light showed from the Hermes.
Sea and sky merged into a uniform grey-
ness round her, broken only by the thick
blackness of the smoke from her funnels
wreathing lazily away astern, and the phos-
phorescent shimmer that flickered along the
edges of her bow wave. For a few minutes
Ullathorne leaned on the bulwark with
folded arms, then he climbed the promenade,
deck-ladder bridgewards. He would go and
have a yarn with Mason.
Captain Duncan was with Mason in the
port wing of the bridge when he got up
there. They were peering anxiously into
the greyness on the bow, looking for the
first sight of the black loom of Piperi
Island. Ullathorne knew nothing of Piperi
Island. He didn’t know it existed. All
he saw was a couple of brassbound deck
ornaments doing nothing on the bridge,
whilst the engineers, under his expert guid-
ance, took the Hermes safely from port to
port. It was the engineers who ran ships
nowadays; that was Mr. Ullathorne’s
favorite argument. “You chaps on the
bridge,” he’d say, “blime! where’d you be
without us engineers? It won’t be long
now before you chaps are finished with
altogether. You’re only glorified lookout
men, anyhow. It’s us engineers that run
ships nowadays.” Which was the cause
of many an argument and not a little feel-
ing.
Dupcan swore under his breath when
Ullathorne joined him and Mason in the
wing of the bridge. He didn’t approve of
the chief engineer hanging about up there,
but didn’t want to cause friction by order-
ing him down. Ullathorne was doubly un-
welcome to-night, too, with the deviation,
and consequently the course, not too sure.
If they picked up the island too close, and
had to alter course suddenly while he was
up there, it would give him a chance to
sling off, to say something .smart about navi-
gation and the shortcomings of the bridge
in that direction.
“A dark night, Captain.”
Duncan grunted non-committally, and
said over his shoulder to Mason, “Have a
look at the man at the wheel, and see
he’s keeping dead on the course.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Mason grinned to himself in the darkness
as he moved towards the wlieelhouse. He
knew just what the Old Man felt about
Ullathorne being on the bridge, and that
he didn’t like to order him down. And
Mason knew that, on this night in particu-
lar, when the Old Man wasn’t sure that the
course was absolutely correct and just where
.(Continued on next page.)


«
I
HI
i&ssgp^
V.MS
r*s
pif*r
%*omm
5S<
z#r. •.*<
* <1
aP
■Mi
tot
2%53
ii
■H
mm
sfw
ivSwfl&SfSfe
Dr
sv
■
-
■C
lan
■
m
*&
*$
■
-
Stuart Crystal is made
by craftsmen who have
never done anything, but
mahe beautiful glassware.
Their shill has been
handed down / Irom
father to son / for many
generations. Every gen=
uine piece bears the regis=
tered name y/ Stuaitd
English Hand*made Crystal
Obtainable -wherever beautiful glass
lie would pick up Pio«ri Island, he resented
the presence of the chUief engineer more than
US When Mason returned to the wing of the
bridge with his “Course correct, sir, Dun-
can was still peering ahead. Ullathorne,
some small distance asway, was leaning with
his back against the forepart of the bridge,
looking aft. Mason resumed his position
beside Duncan.
For a while there was silence, broken
only by the steady swish of the water over-
side and the regular tap of the pneumatic
on the engine-room
telegraphs. No bells were being struck. On
.. s till night sound carries far over the
water, and orders had been given that no
unnecessary noise that might give them
away to a submarine lying on the surface
was to be allowed.
Ahead, ■ the forepart of the Hermes, her
outstretching bowsprit and the sweep of
her forecastle-head rails, were vaguely dis-
tinguishable against the greyness, spring-
ing at momentary intervals into sharper
relief as the flickers of phosphorescence edg-
ing her wash sparkled with greater inten-
sity Above, her tall masts melted into the
gloom unrelieved by any friendly gleam
from masthead lights. Aft she was a
black shapeless mass, overshadowed by the
billowing, low-hanging trail of smoke that
poured from her funnels.
Old Duncan was getting fidgety. “What’s
on the log?” he asked Mason, shifting his
position restlessly, and flexing his knees
to ease their tiredness.
“Forty-five, sir.”
“Forty-fiye. We should be sighting it
anv minute now.” „ , .
The faint musical clatter of a shovel came
from the fiddley, as a fireman signalled to
a colleague at the other end of the boilers
that his firing-doors were closed. Ulla-
thorne’s voice followed close upon it: lhat
’ulkin’ lazy ’ound on the port forrad .boiler s
doin’ a bit of work for once.” Ullathorne
affected to be able to tell from the funnel
smoke which of the boilers were being fared.
It was one of his little vanities.
Duncan made no reply, but muttered:
“What the hell does yon man want up
here? He should be down below, looking to
his engines.” He 1 looked up at the over-
cast sky, and said to Mason: “Well no
get a check on the compass the night.. 1
hop yon deviation’s no far out. It’s time
yon island was showing up.” .
“I bin countin’ the revolutions, continued
Ullathorne. “She’s turnin’ ninety”. ...
Suddenly Duncan gripped Mason s arm
with painful strength. He was staring at
the sea abeam, and a muffled “Hell!” burst
from Mason’s lips as he saw what had
startled the captain.
A thin line of bubbling phosphorescence
was speeding over the sea’s surface at right
angles to their course. Speeding to inter-
cept them at a point immediately below
where they were standing. Too late to do any-
thing. They were paralysed into immobility,
waiting for the blinding smash, the sun-
dering crash that would hurl them to
Eternity and blow the side out of their
ship. Somewhere out there in the greyness,
a submarine....
And all unaware of his impending doom
Ullathorne maundered on behind them, not
sensing the tenseness that gripped them,
filled with his own importance at getting
extra revolutions out of his engines. _
Neither of the watchers spoke. Neither
breathed. Duncan’s fingers bit deeply into
Mason’s arm. Mason did not feel them
now. All his faculties were bent on that
swift speeding death rushing to meet them,
as though by very will power he could
divert its course. He had that dreadful
sickly-sweet feeling, that sensation of light-
ness in the pit of the stomach.
Ullathorne maundered. on.
The torpedo moved like a streak of light.
Thirty feet... .twenty... .ten... .all in a
flash. Now!
The speeding thing turned to a course
parallel to that of the Hermes. It broke
water with a splash. Sped beside them, it
splashed and dived again. Both men sighed
deeply. Duncan’s grip on Mason s arm
relaxed, and Mason suddenly became aware
of the pain of that clamp on his bicep.
His stomach solidified again. The atmo-
sphere became normal. “A porpoise, said
Duncan, and resumed his vigilant watch
ahead. ,
Ullathorne had fallen to a brooding
silence. The crisis had passed him by.
He brightened as a faint hiss from the
exhaust-pipe on the forward funnel
announced a full head of steam. His
discussion with the fourth engineer had
borne fruit. Presently he roused lnmselt
and joined the others.
“Lookin’ for somethin’?” he asked.
Duncan humped his shoulders impatiently
without replying. Damn the man! Nosing
about up here. He’d be talking about bad
navigation for a month if the island showed
up too close and they had to make a sudden
and drastic course-alteration.
And then, suddenly, something did show-
up. Something close on the port bow.
Something low and humped and black. Lying
there in the greyness. They all saw it to-
gether, and simultaneously an idea leaped
to Duncan’s mind, and his voice was like
thunder: „ , , „
“Hard aport the helium! Stand by the
gun ! Action stations !”
The bells clanged as Mason swung the
after telegraph handle to “Stand by.” "he
steering-rod rattled in its bearings in answer
to the twirling spokes beneath the helms-
man’s hands. , ,
For a second, Ullathorne stared at the'
low black hump there on the bow, appear-
ing so suddenly, so unexpectedly out of the
night. “Action stations!.... A submarine!"
And then the brass treads of the bridge-
ladder rang beneath his heels as lie made
for the engine-room as fast as his legs
would take him.
“Stead-e-e-e-e,” called Duncan to the
helmsman, as the black hump swung out
broad on the bow. He turned to Mason.
“Let the gunners know it’s a false alarm,”
he said. “And jump up on top and get a
bearing of yon island. We picked it up
ower close on the bow for my liking.” And
then, as Mason turned away, and in his
broadest Scots, “Ah doubt allowed suf-
feecient deviation on yon course. But Ah
didna want yon man tae ken.”
Nightfall.
Day was a late lone rose
Whose leaves fell oversoon,
Languidly to repose
In the lap of afternoon.
Every leaf an hour
Fluttered to silence now;
Oh! day was a rare flower
On winter’s ragged bough.
Roped in mist are the meadows,
Tranced in dream the trees,
Dozing amid the shadows
In "shadowy twos and threes.
Countryside sounds and smells,
Wood-smoke, and earth, and musk,
Stumbling bullock bells
Sounding across the dusk.
The Cross is a starry bough
And a silver moon’s a-swing
Tilting a delicate prow
Dowm seas of evening.
Dews in a silver shower
And keen airs edged with rime—
Oh! day was a golden flower
On the grave of summer time.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
The Guessing.
We have tasted wine of the sun,
Drunk deep of the golden air;
And the robe that the stars have spun
Has been ours to wear.
We have seen marvellous lights
And felt the great dark
Coming up in the heavy nights
Till our souls were stark
Burdens of pain only—
Made endless in fear of fear —
Being so cold and lonely
With all souls near.
But always on the morrow
A song came to the heart,
And we shone after sorrow
As the moon when the clouds part.
Till the tears seemed a foil for laughter
And the laughter medicined tears,
And the good, like a hound, ran after
The timid hare of our fears.
Are we as those who sit
To watch on the lighted stage
The mimes of comedy flit
From youth to age,
Knowing that after the play
And the scrape of a thousand feet
We shall go out to the grey
Rain of the bitter street?
Are we as those who stand
High on a sunset height.
Knowing the break of the land
Falls away into night
Down cliffs rugged and sheer,
Knowing we may not fall,
But by ways familiar and dear
Turn at the twilight’s call?
Drunk of the golden air;
But why are the stars spun
Over voids of despair?
And why with the will to keep
The treasure of earth and sky,
Must we curtain and shadow with sleep
The desire of the eye?
Write down the guess that seems good,
Set it in letters of gold!
Dream in your happiest mood
More than the dreamers of old;
And who knows but the guess may be right.
Who knows that the guess should be
wrong?
We have looked on a marvellous light;
We have thrilled to amazement with song.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Sirens.
Listen! their rhythmical voices
Where their sandstone gates arise —
As when a temple rejoices
In a Mystery that lives or dies,
With monotonous, magical cries.
Oh, singing, weed-helmeted daughters
Begotten by death on life,
Who clasp the great hand of slaughters
And who raptures would take to wife;
Whose chalice sparkles with strife!
A roof of lapis above you—
The blue that enriches the South;
’Neath it your lovers shall love you,
Front to front and mouth wet on mouth.
And yet your wet lips are drouth.
Oh, gold-brown pylons! Oh, treasure
Of foam-pearls on the threshold stone!
Say. are ye children of pleasure,
Who touch to your love-monotone
A harp of a. man’s breast-bone?
The work of your gates is splendid,
All unmortared as Cyclops build;
The blue roof, nobly extended,
With your constant voices is filled;
Sea pearls before you are spilled.
Oh, bosoms than marble brighter,
And smooth as the altars of sleep!
Your inviolate beds are whiter
Than snow-strands, than fleeces of sheep.
Lo! forward your lovers leap,
Brown-limbed as the youths who herded
The black goats of Thessalian kings ;
They spring with their loins close-girded
Where the beating of passion’s wings
Sounds loud as a rock-surf rings.
The sharp white fire of embraces
Is desperate as edges of swords*
The kisses kindle their faces —
are wooers, adversaries, lords —
Strong wrestlers on flower-white swards.
Oh, life! Oh, lure of death-peril!
Oh, voices of ancient delight!
Glory of sapphire and beryl,
And cold bosoms bloodlessly bright—
Oh. waves calling day and night.
N.S.W.
DTJXCIE DEAMER.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles —Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too teriSe to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
ahd thought and study is too great to expend
oh this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
l.noiv. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 122,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
tIK Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Rowing the Reeds of Better Business.''
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Che Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
A vxtralian Representative i
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and " Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Alelbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
the fldoeriiscr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all. inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch , price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON", Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald’’ Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way -
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
“Prominent Politicians” Puzzle
IN AID OF ROYAL ALEXANDRA HOSPITAL FOR CHILDREN.
*3O-0-0 IN PRIZES
First Prize . . £l5 0 0
Second Prize . . £7 10 0
Third Prize £2 10 0
And Ten Consolation Prizes of Ten Shillings each.
Prizes will be awarded outright on pure skill solutions. No points for neatness.
THE PUZZLE
Here is an assortment of fifty letters of the alphabet.—-
AAAAABBBCD
EEEEFGGHH I
1 LLLLLMNNN
/ NNNOOOPRSS
SSTTTUVVYY
And here are the names of twelve prominent Federal and State
politicians: BAVIN, BRENNAN, FENTON, GABB, LANG. LYONS, LATHAM,
LYSAGHT, MOLONEY, SCULLIN, STEVENS, THEODORE.
The puzzle is, how many of the above politicians’ names can you
extract, or make, from the fifty letters:, no letter to be used more than once
Prizes will be awarded on points, to count as follows: Six points for each
politician’s name included in solution. A deduction of one point for each of
the fifty letters not used
Example: A solution containing seven names, with, say, ten letters not
used, would score thirty-two points nett.
In the event of two or more competitors tieing with equal number
of points, those competitors will contest a second round of a puzzle of exactly
the same nature. The handsome prizes must be won outright by the most
skilful competitors *
YOUR ENTRY FOR THIS COMPETITION GIVES YOU AN ADDITIONAL
CHANCE OF WINNING THE FIRST PRIZE OF £5OO OR OTHER PRIZES
TO TOTAL VALUE OF £BOO IN THE No. 3 ART UNION.
Entry must be accompanied by a Postal Note for One Shilling, and a
stamped envelope bearing your name and address. Results of this competition
will be posted to you, together with one Art Union ticket, promptly after
adjudication of puzzle.
CLOSING DATE. Entry must be posted not later than JULY 11,
addressed to —•
Organiser, Box 4203 XX, G.P.0., Sydney.
Wmm
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day *»f publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies , advertising rates of “The Examiner
r Evening Express' * obtainable from;
Courier”
W. R. Rolph & Sons
73-75 Paterson
LauniVston.
Pty., Ltd.,
Street,
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street. Sydney.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS %
RATES: Australia —12 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
»■
o
e
s®
v
• ••• ✓*?*
* A tftC £ftC e *
>Y'
a*®*
♦*
. \0
>* >*’’ k* vV ,
• ••
.•• c^V*


ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
REO
ẁ
REO MOTOR CAR COMPANY, LANSING
