

I
s
yf
A
As
i
ijft
■
m
m
H
i.
m
m
&♦>
K*
♦»
M
Mm
ifli#
M
R
*■-4.
Httfc
h
&€♦
m
?M/i
&♦
ttff
WIVV
.. the infallible
indication of Super Spirit
SEEandKNOW
WHAT YOU PAY FOR
STOP AT THE
UNION PUMP
Do you buy your spirit by name
only? Are you paying for a spirit
that has possibly been diluted with
inferior petrol or even kerosene?
Insure your engine and your
pocket against the dangers of sub-
stitution fill only with RED
UNION, a Super Spirit, branded
in every drop—protected from the
refinery to your car.
UNION is quick to start. It burns
cleanly and smoothly—with never
a trace of a “knock.” You’ll revel
in its velvety smoothness and the
effortless flow of power, equal to
any demand.
RED UNION gives you more
genuine value than any other spirit
you have ever used. Try it! Stop
at the UNION PUMP, where
you SEE what you pay for.
NOINfK
non-detonating
SUPER, SPIRIT
2-48-31
THE RUNNING MATE OF ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
The Bulletin
dfd
Vol. 52.—N0. 2661.
Wednesday, February 11, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


YY/RITE for Dymock’s Library Catalogue,
VV and lists on all subjects, which will
be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPOISr!
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write Jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mv Address
S.B. 131
LTrSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRAL! A
DON’T Increase our Overseas Debt!
Buy Australian-made goods. Create employ-
ment. Build up a prosperous contented, big
population. Cut down imports. By using
Lysaght’s Galvanized'lron you get the world’s
best, and every penny of the cost remains in
Australia.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Iron
HOLBROOKS
SA CE
WORCESTERSHIRE
/
L X
mi
\\\\\\\\\V^
SHfl
\SS\N\V
SC*N«
THE PICNIC
Host Holbrook Says :
“Those chops grill-
ed in the open air
over a bush, fire!
Nothing more appetis-
ing when served with
my Worcestershire
Sauce.”
AUCKLAND, N.Z. (Acc. 160)
“Only UNLICENSED Hotel-de-Luxe”
C.T., P.S., and Auto. Ass’ns’ House.
Days, 15/* (two or more, 14/-) ; Weekly, 84/-
“Special” rooms (h. and c. water), 16/- or 98/-
I-
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
50
Subjects Weekly.
ALSO COLORED PICTURES
WORTH FRAMING.
°n sale at “The Australasian”
NEWSAGENTS The Paper all Australians appreci-
EACH WEEK, ate, and their friends overseas, too !
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTS
TRADE MARK
Make Sure of Your Game
WINCHESTER shot guns and Winchester
weatherproof shot shells are great garrie
getters.
Whether you are shooting for
game or at the traps, you will find a
Winchester Shot Gun a dependable
team-mate. Perfect balance—Safe-
Strong—Hard-hitting. Their satisfy-
ing shooting qualities have
made them favorites
the world over.
-J
v-rs*®**^
%
SK'WS
♦ «f*£
Model 1 Light,
strong, the “perfect
repeater.” Hammerless
take-down, 12, 16 and 20
gauge.
Model 97. A six-shot hammer
repeater of world wide'popularity.!
12 gauge only.
Model 41. Single Shot. 410 bolt
action shot gun.
With Winchester perfect pattern shells
they make the ideal sHooting combination.
Leader —Repeater Speed Loads —Repeater
—Ranger—Nublack.
For sale by dealers everywhere.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A,
d
Always use Winchester Ammunition with
Winchester Arms —they are made for each other
I*#-
The Red Page
Gum-trees
Reviewing the first edition of Russell
Grimwade’s An Anthography of the Euca-
lypts (Angus and Robertson), The Bulle-
tin pointed out the care the author had
taken to get his pictures from life, so
that they show leaf, stem, flower and
fruit. The work now appears in a
second edition, to which 25 more plates
have been added, making 103 engraved
color-plates in all. " Opposite each is a
careful description of the variety, with in-
teresting historical reference. A scholarly
introduction, glossary and index complete
a volume that borders on perfection. Not
the contents alone; the book itself is a
credit to its makers and a just compliment
to the author. The price, 425., will be
understood by anyone who examines the
first-class printing, the fine plates and the
lasting binding. The object of these
columns is to deal mainly with books of
a general-reading nature; but such a rule
is easily broken to let in, and in the first
place, a book that is at once so splendidly
Australian, so uncommonly good of its kind
and so beautiful simply as a book.
More Australia
Another A. and R. printing—at half a
crown—is Henry Lawson and His Critics, an
address given to the Fellowship of Writers
in Sydney by Fred J. Broomfield. The old
Bulletin eer beats a hearty drum of appre-
ciation of Lawson and detraction of his
detractors, one in particular. “Lawson’s
name,” he says, “is refused a place in the
scroll of Australian literature by his super-
fine critics.” But does it matter? Is it
indeed not better that there should be
detractors? Might they not have helped a
few readers to Lawson, to find out for them-
selves? Is sustained and uninterrupted
applause desirable, healthy? Might it not
have, has it not already, converted Lawson
into a classic, a name, a dead something to
be accepted, instead of the living, vital thing
his work is, to be read and enjoyed? Has
Lawson’s prose any sale to-day?.... Steady!
But if Mr. Broomfield believes—as his
manly, bright, sincere address seems to
imply—that Australians at large would not
place Lawson at the top of the Australian
literary shrub —or Paradise of Australian
Literature, as Mr. Broomfield prefers to
call it—then I’d suggest that he is suffer-
ing under a delusion not uncommon among
enthusiasts, who sometimes see their pro-
phets getting no honor when, as often as
not, the, prophets have had a little more
than was good for them. Every Lawson
admirer will cherish the little book, and any-
one interested in Australian literature will
read it to advantage.
New Ireland
To move abroad a little—every book by
H. V. Morton, author of In Search of
Ireland (Methuen; 7s. 6d. net), seems to
me a shade better than its forerunners,
mainly because Morton is an adept at mak-
ing comparative use of experience. His
strength is the strength of the good fiction
writer. It lies in the handling of humans,
separately or in groups, with their setting
visible about them. Only the best novelists
can make a roomful of people come alive
as H. V. Morton can. More, he can make
the people he sees come alive nationally,
and, again, as natives of this or that part:—
They care nothing for appearances in Dublin. An
Englishman who arrives at a function in morning
clothes when everyone else has dressed, feels un-
happy; but this does not matter in Dublin. Neither
does money. Talk matters. Wit matters. Laughter
matters. And the man who has something interest-
ing to say has more platforms than he can occupy.
When they get together they love to tell stories
that reveal those whom they admire, or those who
are important and prominent, in a rather cruelly
amusing and belittling light....
What is George Moore’s “Hail and Farewell” and
James Joyce’s “Ulysses” but this Irish gift for
satire that always borders on the malicious?
In the Dail he notes that members hold
green question papers, the files are green,
the notebooks are bound in green and mes-
sengers come in every now and then to
deliver emerald-green telegrams.
At the top of the steps and at the doors stand the
most competent-looking chuckers-out seen in public
since the heyday of the old music-hall. I would
give a man of average physique two seconds to main-
tain a real, row in the Dail.
He breaks away from Dublin, its open hos-
pitality and its talk parties with some diffi-
culty, sees the rest of Ireland, and sums up:
Ireland of the Sorrows is no more. The Ireland
of romantic nationalism, the beautiful tragedy
queen among the nations, has gone, let us hope for
ever. Ireland has emerged from the Celtic twilight
into a blaze of day.
Some Stories
Those who decry
anthologies—some
do it savagely—
would, of course,
find no entertain-
ment in that book
of Morton’s; for the attraction of the travel
book is that it permits you to travel (vicari-
ously) rapidly and widely, and that is a
boon which the decriers of anthologies appa-
rently don’t appreciate. For instance, in
The Best Short Stories of 1930: English
(Cape; Dymocks; 65.), the reader, whatever
he may think of the stories as stories, can
live momentarily in* Australia, England,
Scotland, Wales, Ireland, Africa, Europe at
large, to-day, yesterday, to-morrow and 220
B.c. They are selected, as their editor, E. J.
O’Brien, says, for the “fresh, living current”
that flows through them, and that is the
chief merit of these tales. Most of them
are no more than tales, and some not even
that. Australia is represented-'by “The
Bath,” by Henry Handel Richardson, which
is no more a story than a bunch of onions
is a bouquet. That it is a brilliant vignette
is not to the point. Still, the four girls
in the back-countiy bathroom are more real
than most of our painters of nudes could
make them. The South African, Sarah
Gertrude Millin, manages the same reality,
plus narrative, in “Why Adonis Laughed,”
and even more so does Rhys Davies in his
fine story of Welsh setting, “Revelation.”
A Chinese Story
A much better story than even the best
in O’Brien’s collection is the title-piece of
The Tragedy of Ah Qui, and Other Modern
Chinese Stories (Routledge; 65.). Ah Qui
is alive, vastly alive, from the moment of
his being baited by larrikins with “Oh the
lamp!” “Oh! What a lighthouse!”
because he was extremely sensitive about an
inflammation on his head, through his wildly
comic encounter with Wang the Hairy, his
prodigious spitting in the face of the little
priestess, and his other Pyrrhic victories, up
to his trial as a revolutionary, his ride
through the town in the execution cart, with
the reality of his fate just beginning to
pierce his stupid wits, and then the shoot-
ing of him. This pleases nobody, first,
because shooting was not so amusing to watch as
beheading, and secondly because this wretched con-
demned man, although his procession lasted a long
time, had not sung a single theatrical air. They
had followed him for nothing.
The author—Lu Siun—is a highly-gifted
writer. He has humor and the grasp of
contrast that usually goes with it. “Ah Qui,
feeling that he was about to be beaten,
raised his arms, drew in his neck and
waited.” A rare lad—Ah Qui!
Golden Dragons, etc.
Another addition to the Routledge Gol-
den Dragon small-book library of Eastern
literature in which Ah Qui figures is The
Tale of Pomegranate Flower, which con-
tains the crudely biological story of that
name and “The Bridge of Baghdad” from
the Mathers-translated Mardrus version of
the Arabian Nights. The second story is
important for those who have not and
cannot read the complete Mardrus, which
is banned in this enlightened land. It is
a collection of five stories really; and in
themselves, the manner of the telling and
the gracefulness of the style they amount
to a pretty complete miniature of the whole.
Philippa, by Anne Douglas Sedgwick (Con-
stable; Roycroft; 7s. 6d. net), strikes me as
a novel above the common rut, “but without
special distinction, except for the quality
of lilac-like femininity that pervades it
Dent’s have issued an eighth or ninth, edi-
tion, at 10s. 6d. net, of Viscount Grey of
Fallodon’s capital book Fly Fishing, which,
first published in 1899, proved that old
Izaac had not said the last word by a very
long way. It is, of course, not a book for
fishermen alone. It is clean, crisp writing
of something like abiding merit. Two fresh
chapters further warrant the new issue.
RED PAGE.
Our Neglected Classics
A depressing phenomenon to an Aus-
tralian is the way important Australian
books are neglected in Australia. Overseas
critics—in London, in New York, in Berlin
—were hailing Handel Henry Richardson as
a genius when it .was impossible to buy one
of her books in Sydney or Melbourne. I
rarely see a Katharine Prichard novel on
a bookshop counter. And now there is the
case of The Failure of Federalism in Aus-
tralia, by A. P. Canaway, K.C. (Oxford Uni-
versity Press; 12/6 net), a book of profound
interest to every Australian at the present
juncture. It is as topical as a leading
article, and easier to read. The author is
a unificationist. He claims that we can’t
afford six State Parliaments; that they, in
conjunction with the party-government
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—when Anthony
Horderns’ say a thing you know it is true.
The Greatest Sale of Them
Brings the Greatest Values of Them
Manchester
1/10 Table Damask
l / s
Special Sale offer of White Table
Damask, in splendid wearing quali-
ties. Various widths as quoted.
Width, in.—•
54 56 63 67 67
Prices, yd.
l/io 3/6 3/3 3/11 4/3
Sale, yd.—
1/6 2/11 2/11 3/3 3/6
2/11 Bath Towels
V 6
Turkish Bath Towels, of heavy-
weight quality colored. A splendid
assortment of bright and attractive
colorings is available.
Size, 24in. x 48in. Price ...2/11
Sale Price, ea 2/6
I S Kitchen Towelling
vi
All Linen Kitchen Towelling,
fancy colored border.
24in. wide
Sale Price, yd
27in. wide. Price,
Sale Price, yd
with
1/6
1/2
1/4
1/1
1/7 Kitchen Towels
1/ to
3
Hemmed Kitchen Towels, of all
pure linen.
Size, 27 x 35 in. Ea. 1/7 1/10 2/-
Sale Prices, ea. . . 1/3 1/5 1/7
1/9 Glass Cloths at
1/ m
'j
Glass Cloths, of all pure linen.
Size, 26in x 35in. Ea., 1/9 1/10
Sale Prices, ea 1/5 1/6
Size, 27 X 35 in< Price, « « 2 J **
Sale Price, ea 1/8
1/9 Pyjama Suiting
ys
Cotton Pyjama Suiting in the latest
designs and colorings. 31 inches
wide. Price, yd |/9
Sale Price, yd. 1/3
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 2401 Postal Address:
Day and Night. Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ermine
ass
E ■
■■
:
: :«>»: ; :S
f«fS
'/ .
■
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
12/6 Superior White Honeycomb Quilts
Stretcher Bed size. Price, 12/6. Sale Price, ea. .. 11/6
Single Bed. Price, 14/6. Sale Price, ea. .. 13/6
Three-quarter Bed. Price, 18/6. Sale Price, ea. .. 16/11
Double Bed. Price, 22/6. Sale Price, ea. .. 19/11
Large Double Bed. Price, 27/6. Sale Price, ea. .. 24/11
K
36/6 Floral Cambric Down Quilts at
Floral Cambric Down Quilts, with plain Sateen panel and
Border. In Rose, Saxe, Mauve or Fawn.
6ft. x 4ft. single bed, 36/6. Sale Price ........ 29/6
6ft. x sft. double bed, 42/-. Sale Price 35/-
ďf
28/6 White Australian Blankets now
Guaranteed standard weight and size.
54in. x 78in. Price, 28/6. Sale Price, pr 21/11
63in. x 81 in. Price, 35/11. Sale Price, pr 26/11
72in. x 90in. Price, 45/-. Sale Price, pr. .... 33/11
81 in. x 99in. Price, 55/- Sale Price, pr 42/11
1
27/6 All-Wool Grey Blankets at
54in. x 78in. Price, 27/6. Sale Price, pr 19/11
63in. x 81 in. Price, 33/6. Sale Price, pr 26/6
72 in. x 90in. Price, 43/6. Sale Price, pr 33/6
81 in. x 99in. Price, 51/6. Sale Price, pr. 39/11
E
9/6 Check Camp Blankets now
Superior quality Check Camp Blankets.
Size, 54in. x 70in., 9/6. Sale Price, ea 8/11
Size, 60in. x 80in, 12/11. Sale Price, ea 11/9
81
17/6 White Marcella Quilts for
White Marcella Quilts. Outstanding value.
Single bed, 17/6. Sale Price, ea 12/11
Double-bed size. Price, 30/-. Sale Price, ea 22/6
jea
7/6 Heavyweight Damask Cloths now
Heavyweight Irish Linen Damask Cloths.
Inches 45 x 45 63 x 63 70 x7O
Prices .. 7/6 13/11 17/11
Sale ea. . 5/11 11/9 13/6
Serviettes to match, 22in. x 22in., 12/6.
70 xBB 70 xlO6
22/6 23/6
16/11 21/6
Sale, £-doz., 9/6
d
3/9
White
Many <
Inches
Prices
Sale
Mercerised Damask Cloths now
Mercerised Damask Cloths, with colored borders,
xclusive designs.
36 x 36 45 x 45
■ • 3/9 5/6
• 3/6 4/11
50 x 50 60 x 60
7/6 10/6
6/11 9/6
60 x 70 66 x 84
12/11 16/6
11/9 15/3
(Manchester, First Floor. We Pay Carnage.)
3e
2/5 All-Wool Flannel
YU
Splendid quality All-wool Australian
Flannel, in Natural and Dark Grey
only. You save 6d. a yard on this.
28in. wide. Price, yd 2/5
Sale Price, yd 1/11
2/3 ‘‘Doctor” Flannel
V\ i;
All-wool “Doctor” Baby Flannel, of
soft texture. A fine-quality flannel,
with pink edge. The reduction will
be welcome.
Inches 22 24 26 28
Prices, yd. 2/3 2/6 2/8 2/10
Sale Prices 1/11J 2/4 2/6 2/8
1/11 Twill Sheeting
Y&
Single Bed Twill Sheeting, 54in.
wide. Reliable quality. Do not miss
this genuine saving of sd. per yard.
Price, yd 1/11
Sale Price, yd 1/6
3/6 White Sheeting
2 f6
Heavy-weight Quality Double Bed
White Sheeeting, plain weave.
80in. wide. Price, yd 3/6
Sale Price, yd 2/6
2/9 Plain Sheeting
Ti
Finlays’ Best Quality Plain Sheeting,
mill seconds.
Inches 54 72 80
Prices, yd 2/9 3/8 4/1
Sale Prices, yd. . . 2/3 3/2 3/6
3/11 White Sheeting
/ *4
XII
Double Bed Sheeting, of splendid
quality. Plain or twill weave.
80in. wide 3./11
Sale Price, yd 2/11
Always remember that
you can use our “D.P.S.”
(D e p o s i t-P urchase
System). No interest is
charged.


Full of Energy and Cheer
The two letters reproduced here are from
people who suffered from nerve-weak-
ness, listlessness, lack of energy, etc. Read
how quickly Sanatogen helped them tH
recover strength and vitality.
“It is years since I felt so
well and happy. I was full
of pain and depression
through indigestion and
nervousness, but now,
through Sanatogen, the
world and all that is in
it is brighter and more
cheerful.”
MISS G. H., LONG EATON.
“Before I had finished
my first tin of Sanatogen
I felt great relief and
could eat and sleep better.
I am a new woman and
now, when I feel tired
and a bit “run-down,”
I take Sanatogen and I
am all right.”
MRS. A. H., NETHERFIELD.
If you want to feel stronger, fresher*
healthier—if you want to get rid of nerve
weakness, listlessness, digestive troubles,
then start a course of Sanatogen to-day.
Sanatogen will refresh, and revivify your
whole system in a few weeks, because it
contains exactly the right proportion of
those elements glycero-phosphate and
albumin—that build “Health” into the
nerves, muscles and blood.
Give this famous nerve - strengthening
food a trial. A tin of Sanatogen now is
an investment in Good Health.
Feel fit and fresh by taking
SANATOGEN
THE TRUE TONIC.FOOD
At all Chemists .
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.


\ i n'.\ JS3
IS
High
Pressure
Alemite-ing
Insures
Perfect
Lubrication
80% of your repair bills are due to lack of proper lubrication.
To avoid these costly repair bills drive into an ALEMITE Service
Station and have your car properly lubricated.
What Alemite-ing Does Sor Any Car
1. BEARINGS: Genuine Alemite High Pressure Lubricant
forced into every vital chassis bearing with Alemite equipment.
Every 500 miles.
2. GEARS: Differential and transmission thoroughly flushed out
by a special Alemite process. New Alemite Gear Lubricant forced
in. Every 2,500 miles.
3. SPRINGS: Given an Alemite Graphite Spring Bath. They are
sprayed with special Alemite Graphite Penetrating Oil—every
500 miles. Eliminates squeaks and makes car run smoother.
The ALEMITE Systems insure perfect lubrication because the
bearings are thoroughly cleaned —old, worn-out gritty grease is
forced out under tremendous pressure—replaced with clean,
solidified oil.
Every car should be “ALEMITED” at least every 500 miles.
Throughout the world there are over 15,000,000 motor vehicles
equipped with the ALEMITE System. ’
Full particulars from:
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co. t Ltd. . , 535 Elizabeth Street* Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, BoxIG. P. O. 496, E. Adelaide
ALEMITE CORPORATION, Chicago, U.S.A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
ALEMITE
K-AUS'I
system, are responsible for 43 p.c. of the
Commonwealth’s inhabitants being city-
dwellers, and for such horrible examples of
extravagance as Sydney’s £1,000,000 State
Savings Bank. The objections to the unit-
ary system are all stated—Australia’s size,
the contract entered into with the States,
and so on; but' he opts in the end for uni-
fication, and believes that it will come here
eventually on much the same lines as it
came in Britain. You can agree with him
or not, as you prefer, but there is no ques-
tioning the fact that he has produced a
book of the highest significance. Its signi-
ficance is not purely local. Brofessor von
Rauchaupt (Extraordinary Professor of
Foreign Law in the University of Heidel-
berg) has a portentous review of it in
“Staatswissenschaft” which concludes: —
The book, apart from its Australian theme, is
the expression of an awakened and ever-increasing
world-wide movement which has for its objective
freedom from party politics and government by a
sound centralised organisation, guided by respon-
sible and popular leaders who will place funda-
mental common interests in the foreground, and
decentralised local or private concerns in the second
place. Insomuch has the book for Germany also
an actual value, and should lead to parallel investi-
gation.
Essentially, though, it is a book for Aus-
tralians. It has been reviewed at length
in England; I have hardly seen a mention
of it in.our papers. A friend who has just
returned from England tells me it can be
bought anywhere in the West End of Lon-
don or in the neighborhood of the Law
Courts; I had to try three Sydney book-
shops before I was able to buy my copy.
Why? Don’t we want anything but Ethel
Dell? Or are our reviewers and book-
sellers not doing their jobs?
J.B.D.
Nelson
A little man who walked like a duck, his
head questing in front of his body, while
his legs straddled to meet the motion of
the planks.
Yet Narcissus was a fool to him; and, as
there is but one letter “I” in the alphabet,
so (through his opinion) there was no other
Nelson in the universe.
“England expects”.... He said it up his
nose: that nose which snuffing at fumets
of the French (oakum from latrines cover-
ing the smell) laid Napoleon’s hope for ever
in the sea.
Yellow as a guinea (salt junk and bis-
cuits full of weevils), he grappled to his
soul an enemy admiral “with hoops of
steel.”
Patched eye to the telescope; he would
be deaf, too: even as a “snotty” after a
bear, when he refused to distinguish the
gunshot ordering his return.
At Trafalgar, he knew that he must die.
In the cockpit... .fiery... .cold with
death; his body, narrow like a sword-sheath,
pointing east; his eye without light; he
said “Kismet, Hardy!”
Gun-deaf Hardy denationalising sen-
timentalist misread the phrase; then
made history, ludicrous for the world.
HUGH McCRAE.
The Protective Instinct
John Dailey’s indignation (B. 21/1/’3l)
because I did not express quite as much
affection for the hero of his novel, “Only
the Morning,” as he feels, is understand-
able. In fact, it does him credit. Every
mother will understand the feeling. After
all, Richard Lome is his child, not mine.
And the fact that Mr. Dailey was moved
to call me a snob, a Pharisee and a writer
of bunkum after I wrote a not-unappreci-
ative review of his novel might simply
suggest that Richard Lome was bom with
some difficulty and loved the more on that
account.
What makes me think that the materno-
protective emotion is unconsciously at work
in Mr. Dailey’s article is that Mr. Dailey
quite misunderstands what I said about his
offspring. And Mr. Dailey is usually a logi-
cal writer. What I said was that Richard
Lome did not appeal to me because it
seems a waste of time for a man to spend
his life making a fortune (and no doubt
inflicting great suffering on others in the
process) in order to learn the conventions
of a class he regards as above his own
so that the members of that class won’t
laugh at him. Making the fortune might be
a natural expression of Lome’s instincts. If
he stuck to that even a Communist might
respect him. But to make a fortune merely
in order to be tolerated by a class that
despises you is a waste of'God’s gifts.
Mr. Dailey says that the question is of
considerable sociological importance. It is,
though not for the reason’s, suggested. The
people who attach an exaggerated signifi-
cance to the technique of social communi-
cations are usually persons who have had
their sense of proportion -upset by being
taught in their childhood that sin is indis-
solubly associated with sex. This makes
them awkward and self-conscious in com-
pany unless they surround themselves with
an elaborate ritual of behavior designed to
replace reality. Englishmen—and, possibly
to a less degree, _ Australians—are liable to
be victims to this form of Puritanical up-
Nobody beats the Englishman
for ease of deportment inside his conven-
tions, and nobdy beats him for, clumsiness
outside them. I am unable to admire Mr.
Dailey’s Richard Lome because he learnt
a technique of polite dining, which every
Chinese head “boy” in English messes in
the “East” learns inside a fortnight. He
would have been more interesting if he had
remained natural and primitive.
Mr. Dailey, implies that I am the sort
of person who would turn up at a dinner
party in pyjamas just to show indifference
to convention. I hasten to assure anybody
who may be contemplating shouting me a
meal that I always respect the conventions
of other people unless the effort is too oner-
ous or is beyond me.
F.S.
A Satchel of Books
Me and Frances, by “A.A.” (Methuen;
3s. 6d. net). Another collection of Arm-
strong contributions to “Punch,” in which
he is _ a more or less typical suburbanite
bickering with a ditto of the lighter sex.
Rather English, but engaging enough if taken
m very small doses.
Suffolk and Norfolk, by M. R. James
(Dent). The most remarkable thing about
this large, tome is how, with its 100 drawings
and two dozen photographs, it could be
turned out at ss. It is the work of a special-
ist who knows his counties inside out, and
also knows how to write of their present
and past glories:
England Under Victoria, by 11. V. Routh
(Methuen; 6s. net). No. 7 of the “English
Life in English Literature” series. There
is a brief introduction ; then the life of the
day is illustrated with extracts from con-
temporary sources. Apart from the pur-
pose, which is well served, the book is good as
spasmodic reading: it ranges over a grand
storm of tliunderers.
The Ancient Explorers, by M. Cary and
E. H. Warmington (Methuen; 12s. 6d. net).
The - authors, readers in ancient history in
London Uni., not only describe the explor-
ing, but go into the why of it and its effects,
with a chapter on fictitious discoveries. The
book carries 15 maps, and is carefully in-
dexed and annotated. The reading is sound,
though dry.
Vancouver, by George Godwin (Allan;
15s. net). Nothing in this life of the most
neglected of eighteenth-century navigators is
so remarkable as that such a good story
did not attract a biographer long ago. The
writer adopts a sensible plan in keeping his
collection of important Vancouver docu-
ments away from the general story, which is
told straight, the rest going into an appen-
dix. Portrait and necessary maps and draw-
ings are included.
Sinon, or the Future of Politics, by E. A.
Mowrer (Kegan Paul; 2s. 6d. net), is in the
admirable To-day and To-morrow series. The
author has an American and European repu-
tation as a student of world politics, and
takes for the title of his booklet the name
of that early politician who white-anted the
defence of Troy by persuading the Trojans to
accept the Greek gift of a giant wooden
horse filled with Greek troops. The trick
has been played successfully, with unimpor-
tant variants, ever since. The interesting
and well-reasoned brochure accepts as an
inevitable fact that the future of politics is
more politics, and the judgment is not ren-
dered with any apparent enthusiasm.
The Valley of Suspicion, by Florence Rid-
dell (Geoffrey Blcs; 7s. 6d.), is about Kenya
Colony, which has completely ousted South
Africa as a setting for the romances of
effluent English expatriates. John Grant,
K.C. (“one of the coming men at the Lon-
don Bar, another Birkenhead in the mak-
ing”), throws up his practice and goes to
Kenya “to forget.” Ho has prosecuted a
lovely, fair-haired girl for murder. “In Afri-
can solitudes,” to quote the blurb, “they met
again.” John treated Marie abominably, and
she showed her scorn of him, and it, was all
very heart-rending until on page 284:
Grant, stunned with the suddenness of the thing,
had caught Marie tightly to him, and incoherent
words were breaking hoarsely from him.
“I’ve been a brute! I couldn’t... .1 couldn’t
expect you t 0... .to ever”....
“Hush! Hush! You can... .if... .if you care
for me as much. .. .as much as I”. .. .
Broken words, but they said all that was needed—
the love, the shame, the sweet pardon, the forgetting.
Ethel Dell never did anything sloppier.
And a Little Verse
THE LOST SOUL.
How doth this beastly, blinking fly
Take tithe of me... . my lip and eye !....
And ruinate the honest trade
Of turning tubers with a spade.
Nor is that all... . By gosh ! By gum!!....
The scarlet-colored umpty-um
Has pushed me further back by some
Six million leagues from kingdom come.
N.S.W.
HODGE.
OF NO IMPORTANCE.
Every day she heard a new promise,
And all the promises are broken.
All the old lies have been told her,
And all the words spoken.
There is nothing left but an echo
Of a song they both once heard,
There is nothing to say that is important—
Not even her last word.
N.S.W.
ELISABETH RICHOND.
WESTERNER.
Paris, in war-harness on the Trojan Wall,
Caesar fresh from bloodshed on old Nilus
sands,
Harold the Saxon, beloved by thane and
thrall,
Cortes with the blood of emperors on his
hands—
Each and every conqueror under the sun
Sought some tender woman when the day
was done!
And so it comes about, brown giant of the
West
(Haggard, fierce country—tester of men!),
You fill my quiet evenings with tales that I
love best,
And with your tired eyes you seem to me
then
Not so much the hero of an Odyssey
As a little weary boy beside my knee!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
ana no Mo. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Edward D.: On the border-line H.L.R.:
Like a bad island film.... Brooder: Old ground
not worth turning over again. Gwen M.: The
bush wife nearly persuaded us. The. bravest thing
in the world, she’s always hard to resist P.0.R.:
Think the end spoils it Ohm: What. a muddle!
(Best cure for that is put what you’ve written
away for a month, and then come back to it.)....
W.E.S., J.E.B. and H.D.8.: All returned with
regret.... Bull: Sorry, can't answer every corres-
pondent. If a contribution isn’t printed merely
because space is short, it seems a waste to say so.
•• • • D.S.: You .slowed down to a walk A.M.D.:
Slight as the shadow of a mosquito’s ear.
■ - Constance; Following somebody’s statement that
the only way to make the railways pay is to
cut away the capital debt,” a reward of £lOO
was offered “for clear-cut specifications of a method
for cutting away, say, one-fourth of the railway
capital of Australia, honestly and consequently
safely.” Countless suggestions have been made for
reducing exes., but none at all for “cutting away”
debt A.T.: But how are you going to stop
to-morrow’s Parliament undoing what to-day’s Par-
liament has done ?.... FB2 : The point was this.
Inflation may choke off unemployment for a while,
but when it cracks it cracks quickly; and in
France it has begun to crack Boanerges: Thanks;
but w e couldn’t E.MpC.: Oh yes, The B'. has
a great deal to say against stock-watering. But
it also says that when a co. does not distribute its
profits it has a perfect right to capitalise them.
.Nineteen times out of twenty it is the only
way the honest little business can ever grow into
a big business.... Belfast: Good to hear from you.
C.: Red Page was right. The publishers state
that each cartoon in “The Best of Low” is “accom-
panied by a note written by the artist himself,”
which seems to knock the bottom out of your
assertion that Low’s alleged collaborator, “Lynx,"
is Rebecca West, even if “Desiderata” did “first
publicly disclose” the “secret” in Australia....
8.C.: Best you have done so far, but ruined by its
frequent cliches.... G.L.L.: Doesn’t ring true....
U.R'.O.; You have a noble egotism, and may one
day be a poet S.Y.: Net prices of books stated
belong to the place of publication. In Australia
novels are usually a shilling cheaper; others a
little dearer E.M.G. : Not a particularly thrill-
ing account of a train ride J.C.: The Bulletin
would need to be twice as big to find room for
it.... T.D.S.; Your Pegasus must be moulting....
H.P.: An idea, but the singsong metre takes ail
the punch out of it... .841: No use merely reiterating
in political verse; you need to say something fresh.
. ...E.L.G.; Don’t care for the gentleman much, but
doubt whether he deserves that... .N. 8.: Has at
least one of the attributes of good verse—sincerity:
Accursed be these damned mosquitoes:
Why were they made such things,
To bark and bite through the sweating night,
And twang .with their blasted wings?
. ...R.E.: Has its moments, but too diffuse....
A.A.A. “The Rock” isn’t weighty enough to weigh
B.S.: Don’t suggest that you have seen either.
covvn a cash-register key.... Bellerive: Tell the tale
of the glorious encounter:—
PHELPS V. BERT BARRY.
Bert Barry led in
A brilliant way.
And looked as if he’d
Win the day.
At Hammersmith Bridge
His chance was o’ercast
The champion drew level
And swiftly past
In splendid condition
For the trying strain.
He’s title as champion,
Phelps: did retain.
(End of Great Sporting Serial. Next week: “Rhyme
of a Bald Head.”)
. ...li.E.: Returning the faithful hound to his
kennel.... C.E.M.: Does it never end ?.... A.F.:
Wasn’t worth the effort... .A.T.H.: Confused where it
isn’t conventional E.D.: Well done, in its way, and
might suit a woman’s paper.. . .1.M.L.: On the
lean side....H.E.H.; Gets nowhere... .E.M.: Rather
foolish, don’t you think?... .R.A.F.: Little interest
for Australian, readers. .. .G.A.C.: Capital idea
crudely handled... .E.J.C.: You treated it in the
wrong fashion.... E.A.G.: Too far-fetched... . A.W.:
Not so many corpses next time, please!... .R.M.:
End missing. Couldn’t you think of one?... .A.P.:
No. .. .M.F.A.: All walked the plank... .G.P.:
Merely a commonplace day-dream... .C.C.W.: Reads
like an interchange of solicitors’ letters... .11. R :
Judging by the number of flappers w'ho are pulled
ashore in time the sharks must be having a hungry
spin. .. . 8.G.; Shadowy characters and feeble plot.
. ...N.H.: Buy a dictionary and a new
typewriter ribbon for a start.... E.R.: Pathetic
little tale about the young woman who had
the mumps on her wedding day drew tears from
all the office... .P.M.D.: A good first attempt.
Don’t let your pen-nib get rusty.... T.N.: Slouches
along to an untidy end.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.M.: The gap is closing... .5.8.: Misguided
attempt to draw seven dancing couples and a cow
on the back of a postcard M.H.: Three dismal
drawings, and three decrepit gags.... Leo: Dreadful.
. ...G.Y.: Clergyman crashed... .R.M.C.: Take
lessons... .W. 8.: Wretched. .. .P.K.S.: Atrocious art
and mourning-coach jokes R.S.H.: Sculler doesn’t
impress C.W.: You belong to the scratch-as-
scratch-can school... .C.0.L.: Neither is like him.
. ...Q.C.1.: Among the stranded... .8.C.: Not
interested... .A.R.: Make ’em bigger—and better.
. ...J.S.: Worthless... .H.K.: Very promising; keep
to linework for a while.... J.R.0.: An unfinished
lot.. . .A.M.S.: But why inflict them on u 5?....
W.E.M.: It’s taken a long time for that joke to
find its way to Central Q’land R. 8.: Call and
remove petrified politician... .N.J.: You’ll find a
camel’s-hair brush more effective than a porcupine.
....W.8.: Send stamps if you want sketches
returned. -


dfd
IK
■
11 «
/W;:
■
\
. /
mm
:
■■
S
m
-
mm
&
rT3
89 8.
mm
O
I
■■l
*
1 ■'
■
m
■
■- m
:
mm
,-, i :
11
m
,-v, :
■. X
■
pip
■•■ Pi
L !
M
x-
m
m
■ <
'‘V
-
■
'
/ J
H
&&*"•***'*
»
m I
■Hi
s®
r x
SP*
:
■■
PH
;
/


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 200.1.
February 11, 1931.
“WORDS, IDLE WORDS.”
KING JIM SCANUTE: “It’s very disappointing. I've been talking to there waves for fifteen months, yet they go on drowning people.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21i George Street, Sydney;
Box 252111 B; >Phone BTJU.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
WesTßAl.ia : SS Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7 s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 IUS.,
6 months, 15s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
The simple truth is that there are
such amazingly fine drawings this
week that, in order to give two of
them a trifle more of the space they
deserve, the usual list of contents has
been dropped.—The Editor.
THE POLITICIAN HAS FAILED.
It is quite possible for the politician to
presume too far upon the privileges which
election gives him; and modern history is
full of instances where he has been taught
a quick, sharp lesson. In every such case,
so far as The Bulletin knows, the trouble
has arisen, not so much because democratic
institutions have failed, as because they
have been cheated.
What is our own position in that respect f
Well what happened at the last Federal
general election? A gentleman named
Theodore was given charge of the campaign
on behalf of the then Opposition. He made
no serious attempt to put the plain facts
before the public; his job was to win votes,
and he did not hesitate to make the most
outrageous promises in doing it. What this
gentleman Theodore did on that occasion
every other campaign director does more
or less on everv other occasion, with the
result that practically no Government now
lives through a general election; it goes
out because its lying promises have not
been made good. If it stays in, it is be-
cause it has so corrupted the constituencies
or gerrymandered the electorates that it
could not be defeated even though you
convicted it of murdering its mother and
robbing her purse.
And even before the election there is
underground engineering to defeat the good
purposes of popular government. the
country is divided into two parties, and a
little group of place-hunters, speaking m
the name of one of them, chooses this
man for that and that man for this con-
stituency ; and two mobs go along and
obedientlv record their votes, one lot for
the “selected” man Jones, though the bulk
of them may have contempt for him, and
the other lot for Smith, though his sup-
porters know little of him and think less
the more they do know. The majority on
either side, however,' would regard them-
selves as renegades if they did not vote
on strict party lines. Those who are swung
to one side or the other are mainly people
with something directly to gain, and many
of them are public servants. They turn to
whatever hook seems the best baited.
Until very lately the “machine” took a
rest between elections. The two little
groups of manipulators—or three sometimes
—were very busy “selecting” the “right
men” and helping them in; but after the
results were declared they slept. They no
longer do so, oh the Labor side in par-
ticular. A man does not now belong
merely to the Labor party; he belongs to
this or that wing or group of the party,
and every little wing or group aims at
making its pet fad the policy of the whole
party. So there are incessant stirrings and
strivings, and hurried meetings of the
P.L.Z. and the D.Q.R. executives, and
demands upon the Parliamentary Labor
party to do this and not to do that; and
the party itself lives most of its days in
caucus, where it struggles to make a crazy
patchwork quilt of a policy by incorporat-
ing this to placate the Right Wing and
that to silence the Left Wing and some-
thing else to satisfy the Moderates. If a
legislative proposal had the endorsement
of the whole party it would barely repre-
sent the wishes of a majority of the people;
but when these little scraps of policy are'
sewn into the crazy quilt at the behest
of small segments of the party, what a
travesty upon government by the people
it becomes! And when the executive of the
W.T.Y. or the Z.Q.X. orders .this or that,
what a travesty it is even on Parliamentary
government!
Most times the public, and especially
the Australian public, has refused to get
in any way heated or fussed up over the
business. Politics were a sort of game, a
diversion of some kind, and, though a few
people took them very seriously, obviously
it mattered scarcely a straw which party
got in. One lot was “in” one year and
the other was “in” the next year, and look-
ing back it was hard to tell one year from
the other. From the point of view of
the party managers this was not at all a
bad state of mind for the mob to drift into,
it at any rate made it easier to hold
your own part of the mob when you had
yarded it. But what they have not thus
far figured on is a public awakening to
the failure of both parties—an awakening
to the failure of politicians and politics as
we know them. And when the people get
to that stage there is great danger ahead.
They are apt to realise then for the first
time that it was the politician who lunded
the country in its present difficulties; that
it was he who borrowed hundreds of mil-
lions and scattered them up and down the
country in order to corrupt the consti-
tuencies and win here a vote for himself
and there a vote; that it was to curry favor
that Smith, M.L.A., got young Jones on
the trams and Brown, M.L.A., had a job
found for Robinson in the post office. So
long as the inevitable consequences of that
corruption were hidden, nobody troubled;
so long as the loan money flowed in and
politicians could borrow and did borrow,
even to pay the interest on their earlier
loans, nobody cared; politics were still a
diversion. But when the factory-worker
has been out of a job for six months be-
cause the mill has been shut down; when
the farmer, after being promised seven
shillings'a bushel and four and then three,
finally has to take his wheat to the siding
and sell it for eighteenpence; when nearly
a third of all the wage-workers in the
country are unemployed, and another third
are on short time—when these things hap-
pen, then politics are not a diversion any
longer and the politician has got to leave
his accustomed limelight and stand in the
dock. There is no defence open to him
there. He is guilty beyond the shadow
of a doubt. All he can plead in extenuation
is that he is the product of the vicious
system which we have permitted to grow up
and envelop us.
We shall have to struggle back slowly
and perhaps painfully towards true demo-
cratic government uncorrupted and un-
defiled; and meantime the politicians will
be well advised to seriously consider their
position. The system which produced them
stands condemned by its appalling results,
and the pitiful attempts at readjustment
and restoration are no better and no worse
than would be expected from such an
agency. Because this political agency is
constituted and governed as we have shown,
it is totally unfitted for a.nd quite incapable
of the tremendous work of rescuing this
country. It must be reinforced from out-
side the political system. If that is not
done, the political system is in great danger
of being swept away altogether, and that
opens up possibilities too shocking to con-
template.
TO MAKE £2 LOOK LIKE £3.
Another “conference” has been held in
Melbourne; if Mr. Theodore goes on con-
sulting enough doctors he will some day
find one who will tell him what he wants
to be told. The idea this time, apparently,
has been to get professional adwice that
“controlled” inflation might do quite a lot
for us.
Now what really is our problem? We
have something over 300,000 unemployed,
and nothing else is so important as to get
them back at productive work. That a few
thousands are on various relief jobs means
nothing, of course; in fact, relief jobs and
doles make the permanent solution of the
problem more difficult by increasing taxes
and, consequently, also the costs of produc-
tion. Delay, therefore, merely adds to our
difficulties.
And the delay is due to one cause and
one cause only. A section of the Labor
party says that in getting men back to
work we must see that the old standards of
living are not lowered; and the Federal
Government and the Government of N. S.
Wales more or less subscribe to that. In
support they quote various employers and
others, principally American, who have said
that high wages spell prosperity. But we
have maintained high wages ever since the
disaster fell upon us 15 months ago; and
so far from prosperity showing over the
horizon, the number of our unemployed has
been steadily added to. Plainly there is
something wrong with that theory. One
sub-section of Labor, despairing of main-
taining wages otherwise, says that inflation
of the note issue, plain or camouflaged,
would do the trick. No doubt it would:
nominal wages would bound ahead if we
multiplied our notes. But if the note would
buy only half as much, what would the
worker gain by doubling his pay? The
scheme is simply one for pulling wool over
his eyes.
We will get nowhere until we go back on
our tracks and discover the causes of the
present unemployment. Why are all these
men and women out of work? There are
two transparent reasons: one, the sources of
our huge overseas borrowing have dried
up; the other, our staple export products,
which brought us in most of our wealth,
have fallen in value on the average 50 per
cent. On a moderate estimate we have thus
100 millions a year less coming in than we
had three years ago.
Apparently no section of Labor denies
this. The facts are too plain for denial.
That being so, obviously somebody must
suffer. If there is 100 millions less to dis-
tribute, somebody must go without it. “But
it must not be us,” this section of Labor
urges. So it comes to a matter of figures.
Admittedly Labor and Capital have been
dividing the-proceeds of Australian industry,
primary and secondary. If Capital has been
getting 100 millions, then it might be pos-
sible for Labor to get as much as it has
had hitherto —assuming for the moment
that Capital can do without any return at
all. If on the other hand Capital has not
been getting 100 millions a year as its share
of Australian industry, then quite plainly
Labor cannot get what it formerly had,
because it is not there to get.
Nobody wants to see Labor’s rewards re-
duced for the mere sake of reduction. But
if it is necessary to reduce wages in
order to pay any wages at all, then the
plain commonsense of it is to reduce them,
taking all sorts of care .that the reduction is
no more than is necessary to enable the
work to be profitably done. Fantastic
schemes for making £2 look like £3 are
merely a waste of time.
The thing to be aimed at by those of us
who desire to maintain the worker’s stand-
ard of living is to make the £ buy the very
utmost. As helps in that direction a
thousand things are practicable. In particu-
lar the non-producers of every kind must be
reduced to the fewest possible. Among us
the middleman is multiplied beyond all
reason; and so are the politicians, public
servants and other parasitic classes. To
deal with these will, however, be difficult;
more than that, since these classes have
votes, interference with them will be
dangerous for the politicians, who live
by votes. But if politicians will not do
it somebody else must. Either that or we
shall go broke, in spite of all our fine words
about paying every penny. For we cannot
pay our foreign debts unless we can produce
to compete with our competitors, and no
fantastic schemes for making £2 look like
£3 will help us there.
WOMAN TO THE RESCUE!
Woman can play a very important part in
this rehabilitation of Australia. Being a
practical person, as a rule, she has pro-
bably realised that the old times have gone.
For many years past all our conditions have
been as artificial as hundreds of millions of
borrowed money and boom prices for all
our products could make them. Much as
we may deplore it, the wages of these years
of folly are no longer possible. There may
be a fairer distribution of the wealth that
is produced; there may be fewer parasites
upon industry. To a great extent the men
will see to that. But earnings will be less,
in spite of all that can be done; and the
woman’s part will be to see that the family
gets better value for them. In a measure
this will come about automatically. Already,
as the Government Statistician’s index
figures show, there has been a substantial
reduction in the cost of living. But there is
room for much more than that.
We have not been a thrifty people. Our
training has not been good. We have got
so much more than we have earned —of
this our huge debt is proof—that we have
not had to look at the pence as other
people have done. Waste has, in fact, been
exalted rather than condemned. We have
been proud, not of what we could do with
a little money, but of how much we could
spend. Of course there have been excep-
tions. Of course there have been house-
holds in which wonders have been done
with a pittance. But the fact remains that
there has been a vast amount of waste,
especially through bad buying, of both food
and clothing, and through indifferent cook-
ing. In this matter perhaps the industrial
worker has suffered less than those others
who have taken more to the flat life.
Huddled into the inner suburbs, these have
existed largely on tinned food and the cooked
provisions of the smallgoods shop. They
have thus paid for labor and contributed
to high rents which they could never afford,
and which they will be less able to afford
in the future.
Behind it all there has been the suspicion
that if the worker could show that he could
live for less he would get less. Our system
of the basic wage and the inquiries which
have been held to determine it have been
largely responsible for this suspicion. That
system was bad and was bound to have
evil results. To-day we. are beginning to see
that wages cannot be determined by what
a man or his household spends, but must
be governed by what the man earns—that
is, produces. We were able to hide that
fact during the years of heavy borrowing;
we cannot hide it any longer. The time has
thus come when it is not what we' spend that
matters; what matters now is what we get
for what we spend. And with that the
woman has most to do.
For the moment the Trades Hall and
other Labor organisations can hardly be
expected to take a keen interest in this
question. Their one object in life for so
many years has been to get more wages and
work fewer hours. It will take them some
time to acquire a new view of their obliga-
tions. And surely this is one of their obli-
gations. If economic forces compel us to
work for less—as they are already doing—
then it is surely part of the Trades Hall’s
job to help the worker to get better value
for his reduced earnings. High wages are not
an end; they never were more than a means
to an end—the comfort and well-being of
the worker and his dependants. And if high
wages fail, then it is up to somebody to
help in reaching the end by means that
are available.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Napier Disaster.
In the presence of the appalling disaster
which has befallen the sister dominion,
Australia stands ashamed of having made
so great a trouble of her own small mis-
fortunes, and offers her profoundest sympa-
thy.
A few days ago the province of Hawkes
Bay was as pleasant and prosperous as any
in this vast Empire. Its capital, Napier,
picturesquely perched on a peninsula, en-
joyed every amenity of civilisation. It
was a bustling centre of commerce; big
ships lay at anchor in its harbor; it drew
tribute from hundreds of thousands of acres
of farmland and pasture. Then, on a
morning when town and country were
settling down to the day’s work, the earth
shook and most of man’s handiwork was
destroyed in a few moments. By night
Napier was a pile of smoking ruins under
which lay uncounted hundreds of dead, and
villages and settlements over an area of
1000 square miles had suffered heavily.
Even the pioneer settlers of Maoriland
were acutely conscious of the perils that
underlay their terrain; and the earthquake
in ’55 which nearly wrecked the budding
town of Wellington was a sharp lesson,
remembered for many years. The settlers
learned then that a properly constructed
wooden building has sufficient pliancy and
toughness to hold together though veiy
severely shaken, and thus it came about
that when the city’s principal building, Par-
liament House, was designed, wood was
specified. It was the biggest building of this
material in the world. But there followed
a series of decades in which shocks were
either slight or, if severe, manifested them-
selves in uninhabited or sparsely populated
regions. The cities and towns began to
build in brick and stone, and the majority
of large public and business premises
throughout the Dominion are now of this
class. As the Napier experience has proved,
confirming the experience of San Francisco,
this mode of construction is most vulner-
able to earth shocks. - Reinforced concrete,
judging by the resistance of buildings of
this sort in Hastings, just south of Napier,
is much better suited to withstand such
strains.
Napier has been wiped out. The problem
of the immediate future is to prevent it
becoming a plague-centre. As to rebuilding,
the disaster comes at an inopportune time
and in an inopportune fashion. Speaking
generally, earthquake risks are not covered
in insurance policies—such happenings are
“acts of God”—so that, in addition to the
sorrows of bereavement, many, probably
most, of the surviving inhabitants of the
town are faced with financial ruin. The
Government, which otherwise might have
given substantial assistance, is faced with
money troubles of its own.
Bright rays in the story of this terrible
calamity are the many incidents of heroism
recorded—a doctor fighting his way into
a blazing building to administer morphia
to a woman doomed to be burnt to death;
postal officials remaining in their office in
deadly peril till they had extricated trapped
colleagues; nurses who risked their lives
again and again to rescue patients from a
hospital that was rapidly collapsing; and
many other brave souls who took desperate
hazards to saA r e life. While she has citizens
of that sort, Maoriland need not despond,
no matter how terrible the catastrophe that
has afflicted her.
4
Our Trade Figures Are Still Improving.
Australia’s trade figures for the first six
months of the current financial year are
now available and broaden the smile which
those to the end of November left on'
this paper’s pink face. We are still far
from squaring our trade account with the
world; but good progress has been made
in the teeth of large obstacles.
As pretty well all Australia now under-
stands, we got into trouble through importing
far more than we could pay for with exports
of merchandise or gold, and we squared
our account with loans. When the regulai
loan supply w 7 as cut off we had to do one
of two things or both of them —(1) reduce
imports, (2) increase exports. The trouble
hit us in the latter part of the calendar
year 1929. In only two of the seven years
prior to June, 1929, had our exports paid
for our imports: over the whole period not
only did we borrow to pay the whole of out
overseas interest bill of 30 millions-odd,
but we went into debt for more than o
per cent, of the goods we imported. h|
1926-27 we were importing at the rate ot
just upon 14 millions per month. By the
end of the calendar year 1929, when it was
obvious that we were in trouble, we still
bought 12 millions’ worth.
The new Labor Government, which began
so well and continued to do so well till just
before Scullin’s departure, earned the
highest praise by sternly discouraging im-
ports. The January, 1930, figures were
£12,421,853. By April the effects of the new
tariff schedules were visible: imports shran ■
that month to £8,892,409. In Decern e 1
they were down to £5,141,336.
But as soon as we pass that point we ge
out of the sunshine into mixed weather
Our exports of merchandise for the his
half of the past three years have been
seriously affected by the fall in prices.


we get the following figures for the first
half of each of the past three years: —
Imports. Exports.
1928- .. ..£72,778,710 £67,358,013
1929- .. .. 74,683,469 50,004,351
1930- .. .. 38,259,416 43,679,054
And, proceeding further, we reach these
figures:—
1928- —Excess Imports .. ..£5,420,697
1929- „ ■ Imports .. .. 24,679,118
1930- „ Exports .. .. 5,419,634
The period July-Dee., 1929, was one of
partial readjustment. To get to where we
were in our maddest state we have to go
to 1928. Comparing the July-Dee. six
months of that year with the July-Dee. six
months of 1930 we shall find that we have
reduced our imports by no less than
£34,519,294, while our exports have suffered
to the extent of £23,678,959.
These are merchandise figures. The usual
trade statistics include gold and silver coin
and bullion among both exports and im-
ports. In view of the fact that we have
cut deeply into our stocks of gold in order
to ease the situation in London, gold ought
to be and is excluded from these compari-
sons. Nevertheless the position actually is
improved by the value of our gold produc-
tion, and that can be put at about £150,000
a month or £900,000 for the half-year and
added to our exports.
We get into the darker shadows again when
we remember that our overseas interest bill
is about £36,000,000 a year, and that it is
very doubtful whether our exports are
worth at the other side the figure at which
they have been locally valued plus shipping
and other charges. Our six months’ ex-
ports plus gold were £6,319,000 in excess
of imports; and on past records we must add
about 6 per cent, to the exports for the
first half to reach the figure for the second
half. On that basis, and assuming that
we can keep our imports down to the Dec.
figure, the current half-year would show
something like this:—
Jan.-June, 1931—Exports .. ..£46,300,000
»» »» „ Imports .. .. 30,800,000 ‘
Excess Exports .. £15,500,000
To that must be added about £900,000,
current gold product; total, £16,400,000. For
the full year this would give an excess of
exports amounting to approximately 21f
millions. It is still some distance from the
36 millions required, and it- has to be re-
duced by whatever the difference may be
between the value declared for export and
the net price realised abroad; our produc-
tion for export must be increased very
greatly before we come out square. Eut
it is so vast an improvement on the long
succession of excesses of imports, running
to over 30 millions in 1926-27, that we may
find' a good deal of comfort and still more
encouragement in the figures.
• ♦
Mr. Theodore says “Let There Be
Money!”
Mr. Theodore more or less unfolded his
“scheme” before the State Premiers at Can-
berra on Saturday. He plainly had not the
courage, and neither has Mr. Scullin, to tell
this loan-drunk continent that it must sober
up. His plan is merely that, seeing that we
cannot borrow any more money with which
to carry on the orgy, we shall make some
ourselves. He calls this “creating credits,”
and his object is to maintain 1929 prices.
Now, 1929 prices were the result of a long
succession of years in which we lived beyond
our means to the exent of between 30 and
40 millions per annum. We ought to be
told to work and forget that madness as
soon as possible; instead, this wonderful
financier proposes that we shall issue lOU’s
to one another and pretend that the boom is
still on!
The pretext is that if we don’t do this
a whole lot of people will get the benefit
of unearned increment. It is a fact that as
prices fall the £ is. worth more; therefore,
Mr. Theodore says, let us debase the cur-
rency so that prices will not fall. Thereby,
he says, we shall prevent the capitalist who
lives on interest and rent from benefiting at
the expense of the wage-earner, whose
wages, not being a fixed charge, fall with
the fall in prices. But actually the number
of investors whose revenue, has not fallen
is small; the list is confined to those who
hold Government stock and other securities
bringing in a fixed rate of interest, and those
who have unpaid balances of purchase
money outstanding. These investments
amount to no more than one-eighth of the
country’s total. The seven-eighths on which
the return is not fixed consist of ordinary
shares in all manner of cos., including bank
and insurance shares and shares in all
manner of industries; and properties let on
weekly or monthly tenancies and on short
lease.
As to the one-eighth, it is true that they
gain by a rise in the purchasing power of
the £: that is, by a fall in prices. But
does Mr. Theodore want to play this game
with a double-headed penny? For many
years the State borrowed with goods at low
prices. Then they rose sharply. Commodi-
ties which in 1911 were worth £lOOO were
worth £2480 in 1920. But there was no
suggestion that the rate of interest paid by
the State should be doubled to make up for
this. Nor did the State add one farthing
to the pensions which old public servants
were drawing.
Of course there are cases of hardship.
Especially hard are some of those cases
in which men bought farms and homes at
boom heights and still owe more upon
them than perhaps the places are worth.
It is quite possible that Mr. Theodore’s
scheme of inflation would benefit these men.
But it would be done by a dishonest piece of
legal chicanery—by printing notes and
making the “crook” paper legal tender so
that the acceptor would have to give a re-
ceipt for £3 though he knew he was getting
the value of only £2.
And all this is done to prevent the
worker’s wages being reduced. So the
shabby trick is to b,e played on him,
too: he is to get something that looks like
£3 but is really only £2. When he wakes
up to the fact there will be trouble. And
Mr. Theodore and his poor, weak Prime
Minister will be in the middle of it.
+
Exchange ancl the Producer.
The man on the land, for whose benefit it
was alleged the exchange premium was
rushed up past 30 p.c., is beginning to find
there is a catch in it. On the one hand
he isn’t at all sure that he is getting much
of the 30 p.c.; on this point he has only
the assurance of the exporter. Whether the
full premium has been added to the price
which the exporter would pay if there was
no premium, nobody ca.n tell but the ex-
porter himself. On the other hand, it is
beyond all question that the farmer is
paying out because of the exchange. Not
only every imported article, but every
home-manufactured article in which there
is any imported raw material, has to carry
this burden of exchange. Protectionists
have been invited to give three cheers be-
cause the premium is equivalent to a large
increase in Protective duties. But Pro-
tection is a policy of discrimination, and
there is no discrimination about this im-
post; it.falls' as heavily upon the raw
material called for most urgently in Aus-
tralian industry as upon the foreign-made
and completed article which comes in to
compete with an Australian-made product.
So, while it is extremely doubtful whether
the farmer is getting substantially more
for what he has to sell, it is beyond all
question that he is having to pay substan-
tially more for a great deal of what he has
to buy.
Dragon’s Teeth in India.
The release of Gandhi, intended by the
Macdonald Government as a gesture of
peace and goodwill towards the insurgent
native element in Northern India, has been
accepted, as everyone with knowledge of
the Asiatic knew it would be, as proof of
weakness if not cowardice.
The old Brahmin fanatic’s first action on
emerging from his latest prison was to
publish a series of demands on the British
Government embodying all the tenets
with which he has set Northern India on
fire at various times. As always, he has
accompanied his demands with strict in-
junctions to his followers to avoid even the
appearance of violence in supporting them.
The Hindu, who knows his Brahmin better
than any Christian or Moslem can hope to
do, has a proverb, “Honey in the ■ mouth
of a Brahmin is more dangerous than
poison in the mouth of a snake.” Through-
out Gandhi’s public career he has osten-
sibly sowed the seed of sweet reasonable-
ness, but no crop save bloodshed and de-
termined resistance to authority has ever
been harvested.
It is most significant to read that on his
release from gaol he passed beneath an arch
of “staves” held by thousands of his
disciples. These “staves” are thg 6ft. bam-
boo lathis, ringed and shod with iron, which,
with the great hoes of the agriculturists,
are the favorite weapons of an Indian mob
bent on assault and murder. It may con-
fidently be expected that both will be again
in free employment in Northern India,
backed by the pistol and the sword, the
carrying of which without special license
is forbidden to the inhabitant of Hind
outside the native States. The final result
will see the exponents of self-determination
for India further than ever from the goal
towards which they have set their faces.
♦
Monash or Mungana?
Dear Bulletin —Herewith another sup-
porter of the doctrine of handing over Aus-
tralia to Monash as dictator. Pending his
return from representing Australia at Delhi,
our humorous and loquacious Governments
might show their alleged good faith in the
matter of slewing Australia off the straight
road to ruin by
(а) Abolishing payment of members;
(б) Halving their clerical armies on lines
already suggested by The Bulletin
(31/12/’30);
(c) Abolishing the baby bonus;
( d ) Drastically investigating all old-age and
invalid pensions and cutting out the frauds;
( e ) Abolishing “Hansard,” State and Fed-
eral;
(/) Abolishing all doles, using half the
money now so wasted for acquiring stocks
of raw materials for sale on long easy terms
for the establishment and assistance of Aus-
tralian industries;
(g) Abolishing all basic wages and union
preferences, leaving a fair field to the man
who really wants to work;
(h) Rounding up all the work-shy and
unemployable parasites and giving them the
alternative of either working or starving in
labor camps, their wives and families being
fed meanwhile from the results of their
work. That kind wouldn’t starve!
Of course it all sounds very impracticable,
but it is getting to be high time that the
plain everyday Australian staged some sort
of a definite protest if he does not really
want to become the rickshaw-man for Cut-
throatski’s bosses. “Monash or Mungana?”
would make a good motto for- a Fascist
movement. —Yours, Monsoon Mike.
• ♦ — :
There is greater warrant for a Government
of all the talents in Victoria now than there
was in 1880, when the two former political
enemies James Service and Graham Berry
joined forces; but Labor’s cast-iron rules
will not permit of a partnership. With such
a Government, headed by Hogan, there
would be a respite from political turmoil for
a year and 10 months, and during that time
savings could be made in all directions,
while, freed from the harassing uncertainty
about taxes, private employers would launch
out. Opposition-leader Argyle is showing an
inclination to help with constructive pro-
posals; but Hogan and Jones look worried
men. Hogan may disappoint some of his
followers by summoning the special Parlia-
mentary session which they say they want.
NO HEART FOR FIGURES.


in the dance
it’s grace/
Che*
m
i
wm
m
si ;
. in a cigarette
it’s TASTE f
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Scullidores’ Grow More Wheat cam-
paign is to add £6,000,000 to the public debt;
what it has cost the farmers besides can
only be guessed at. It has been tardily
decided to borrow the £6,000,000 'and pay a
bounty of sixpence a bushel on 1930-31 wheat
exported by October 31; what remains—
estimated at £2,500,000—is to be distributed
as “loans to necessitous growers.” The
Perkins plan of a sales tax on flour would
have realised another sevenpence or eight-
pence a bushel without bloating the public
debt, but it would have meant raising the
price of bread; and the Scullidore-Lang
theory is that civil servants and others are
entitled to (1) bread at a price that gives
the farmer nothing, and less than nothing,
for his year’s work, and (2) boom-time rates
of pay, to be maintained, in part, by special
taxes (Lang’s is 71d. in the £) on the farmer’s
1929-30 income.
Whether our industrial arbitration system
can last gets chock-full of doubts. If the
public had acquired complete confidence in
the decisions of these so-called courts, the
system might have pulled through; but
Labor insists that the decision depends on
who appoints the Judge, and that kills all
confidence. Thus far the other political
crowd hasn’t said as much in plain words;
all the same, it, too, finds it convenient to
make a change of industrial Judges now
“No, Mr. Lang, we feel we’re wasted shifting
sand. What me and my friend want are
jobs on the Bench.”
and then. The habit of regarding a place
on an industrial tribunal as part of the
victor’s spoils has become so common that
no Government arrives now without being
besieged by possible and impossible orna-
ments of the Bench who think it would be
much more comfortable to tell other people
what to work for than to work oneself,
especially as one gets 10 times more for
telling than for toiling.
Every day the three-ha’pennies have been
pointing out that the 30 p.c. exchange pre-
mium has made things terribly hard for the
poor importer, the premium being just the
same as so much extra duty. And the poor
importer, who had a tremendous burst ot
energy in the early part of last year, and
got in large stocks, looks over his still well-
filled shelves, and groans as _he adds 30
p.c. exchange to the selling price of all the
old stock that came in when exchange was
anything from 6 to 0 p.c. Exchange and
robbery!
If Slang can manage it, Justice Pidding-
ton, now chairman of the Industrial Com-
mission, will reign alone for seven years;
Justices Street and Cantor are to be re-
moved to another jurisdiction.” Apart from
the stupendous folly of placing struggling
industries—and they are all struggling these
times —at the mercy of a benevolent crank,
the arrangement is an admission that there
is one law for Piddington and another for
all other N.S.W. public servants. Judges
and magistrates have to retire at 65. Piddo
is rising 69.
General Dawes, United States ambassador
to J. Bull, has made some frank remarks to
a meeting of Doughboys in London ■ He said
that the great republic sent 000,000 men
across the water with “little or no munitions',
no horses, few rifles, little artillery, and
not a single aeroplane.” About two-thirds
of their fopd was furnished by the British
and French, and the same allies lent them
anaesthetics, else the wounded Doughboy
would often have been carved up in the
fashion of the Middle Ages. This very can-
did statement suggests that there is some-
thing in the report that Uncle’s conscience
is pricking him about those war debts.
Queensland will have to dip into the public
purse to repair the losses caused by the floods
in the Brisbane valley ; but thanks to McCor-
mack, who saw trouble coming, and to
Barnes, who has been very careful, there is
still something there. More fortunate than
its neighbors, Moore’s State has only
£713,220 of debt maturing this year and the
trifle of £29,000 in 1932; the
totals for the six States are
£16,806,426 and £25,650,072. It
has cut awards, reduced civil-
service salaries, given relief
work on reduced wages and
generally done all the things
that, according to Left Wing-
blatherskites, tend to rush a
country to destruction. Yet its
proportion of unemployed union-
ists is only half that of N. S.
Wales, and the cost of living,
already by far the lowest in
Australia, is steadily dropping.
N.S.W. Attorney - General
Lysaght says it is scandalous
that the State’s law business
should be hung up for three
months or so at Christmas, and
proposes to abolish the Long
Vacation. But law business
can’t go on like the business of
a pub, day after day. So long
as there is one man behind the
bar and a thirst in front of it,
business can proceed in the
tanglefoot trade. But in the
law business there are, besides
judges and lawyers, witnesses and jurors to
be considered ; and it won’t be easy to round
up that mob through' the holidays. Three
weeks’ vacation from about Dec. 23 to
Jan. 14 should meet the case.
N. S. Wales is to have a new Fisheries
Act, with (of course) a board to control the
industry, and expensive offices and retainers.
The project recalls memories of the State
trawlers and fish-shops, on which £150,000
of good borrowed money was lost. In the
last phase it was shown that the boss of
the outfit, a Good Labor Man, had sud-
denly become possessed of large sums. He
explained to an incredulous magistrate that
he had taken them from a cache under his
sitting-room carpet, having no faith in banks.
That, was a cheeky thing Attorney-General
Brennan did the other day—applied to the
Federal Arbitration Court to suspend its 10
p.c. wage cut .on the ground that the Gov-
ernment (in office 16 months) was thinking
up a scheme, and the decision might in some
way conflict with it. Obviously what was
suggested was that the Government might
possibly be able to bring off some inflation
plan which would render a cut of 10 p.c. or
anything else unnecessary. In. plain Aus-
tralian, “Don’t weigh out justice, your
Honors, for a bit. Give us a chance. Yon
see, some of the people that vote for us will
ATTORNEY-GENERAL: “I beg your Honor to
postpone the weighing till after we have
manipulated the scales.”
be damn wild if they have their wages re-
duced, and will blame us. So you just wait
till we can ring in a few crook weights, and
then they won’t know their wages have been
reduced.” Of course, the Government got
the only answer a self-respecting Court could
give.
One certain result of the Maoriland earth-
quake will be the replacing of many wooden
buildings with reinforced concrete. Another
earthquake country, Japan, has done this on
the grand scale, having learned from frequent
tragic experience that districts of light and
flimsy dwellings suffer more than solider
areas. In stricken Hastings, a report, says,
not a sheet of plaster fell nor was a window
broken in two new reinforced-concrete build-
ings, though there was desolation all around.
Old Jack West followed George Reid as
M.P. for East Sydney and became an insti-
tution there. For years he polled a stronger
personal vote than any other Federal Labor
member; even so, he rarely had much of a
majority. The Nationalists can win the seat
if they put up a good man —not one of the
old gang—especially as there is bitter dis-
The judgment of Peris.
satisfaction with both Labor Governments
in the Paddington part of the electorate.
Darlinghurst is the Nats.’ stronghold, and if
they must have their pre-selection they had
better hand over the job to a committee of
Darlinghurst ladies.
If, by misfortune or mismanagement, there
is a shortage of supplies an obvious course is
to put everybody on short allowance while
the trouble lasts. This is nowadays called
rationing. An equally obvious device is for a
self-selected aristocracy to put itself on full
(or extra) allowance and throw its mates
overboard to make room. If the thing is well
organised in advance a lot of throwing over-
board is possible. So many people are to be
banned in N. S. Wales under Slang’s
‘'amended” Arbitration Bill, and so many
more are to be refused relief jobs, which are
to be handed out by union executives, that
the Red push expects to have a good time.
It will even be in a position to charge its
election expenses to union funds, for the
well-paid and short-hour crowd who remain,
after all “loyalists” of one kind and another
have been sorted out and disqualified, are to
pay for their exclusiveness. The danger is
that there may not be enough exclusiveness
to go round, and that having thrown out
other unionists the Reds may begin to eject
one another.
In the course of an address at Narrandera
on how to save the country, Eaa-le Page
showed that he hasn’t moved with the times,
though they have been moving pretty fast.
This is a sample from the “S. M. Herald”
report:—
What is wanted in Australia is a scientific tariff.
The country needs a policy that will protect arid
encourage those articles that can be produced in
mass at competitive prices in such a way that
will permit of export, and allow those articles to
come in duty free that cannot he made commercially
here.
The scheme might possibly work if managed
by a Treasurer who was not too young nor
too old nor too middle-aged—a well-balanced
sort of man like a shandygaff. Still it wouid
gladden the public to have a list of the
manufactured articles that can be produced
“in mass at competitive prices in such a
way that will permit of export.” And it
would be heavenly to know where Page
would get his customs revenue if one-half
the goods were produced for export (exports
don’t pay customs) and the other half “came
in duty free.”
The cruel and wicked pretences by which
the N.S.W. State election was won are
being gradually abandoned. A deputation
asked Minister McGirr why the construction
of the St. Leonards-Eastwood railway had not
been begun as promised (Commissioner
Cleary estimated that it would cost £929,000
and lose £75,600 a year) ; he whined that it
was because the Government “could not
borrow, either on the local market or over-
seas,” Bavin having tied it to the Loan Coun-
cil. The election lie, spoken on a hundred plat-
forms, was that “Labor” would borrow in
spite of the Loan Council—get all the money
required to commence railways galore, and
build roads “from the farm to the siding,”
and “stabilise the wheat market,” and re-
store the glad days of seven-and-sixpenny
wheat (“what Labor did before Labor can
do again”), and make everyone,_ except
“Tories,” happy. And the lie did its dirty
work.
Canberra, the metropolis of a continent,
has five stately Government-owned hotels, of
which three are closed, and seem likely to
stay that way. The biggest one, the Great
Uninhabited Hotel, is open, but for some
time recently it didn’t contain a single guest.
On the other side of the quiet, beautifully-
kept road, which is about a furlong wide,
and perhaps 1| miles in an eastward direc-
tion, stands the Grand Depopulated Hotel,
also open for business if there was any. It
is interesting to know tliat a new and expen-
sive main road is on the verge of completion.
It will enable traffic with Goulburn and the
north and east generally to save a few miles
by cutting out Queanbeyan, which will fail
more or less into disuse. Still, as it will
compete a bit harder with the railway and
thus shove us an inch or two nearer national
bankruptcy, it all fits in with the Canberra
plan.
The “Labor Daily” is publishing a series
of attacks on the trading banks, Nationalist
politicians, the gold standard and “the arti-
ficial laws of finance,” alleged to be by
“John T. .Lang” and embellished with his
signature and portrait. A characteristic
extract:—
To-day I propose to tell you how the great
Liberals of Queensland, the cognoscenti of commer-
cialism, the panjandrums of the professions, the
mercantile magnates, shamelessly, ruthlessly, vici-
ously repudiated the claims of debtors to collect
the moneys owed them ; how the Liberal politicians
of Queensland nearly four decades ago became the
heelers for the merciless financial gang that, like
vultures, gorged themselves upon the woes of those
they had bankrupted; feasted upon the horrors that
their vicious gambling had given as heritage to
the business folk and the wage-earners.
Lang never speaks like that. To do him
justice, his own style is immeasurably
superior; even when he is barking at Bavin
he uses short, pithy sentences with few
adjectives. But this gutter-rag rant prepared
people who have been watching him closely
for his outburst at Canberra on Monday,
in which he demanded the “immediate” aban-
donment of the gold standard and reduction
of interest on all Government borrowings in
Australia to 3 p.c. and invited the other
Governments to coincide in the policy
“which the Government of N. S. Wales has
decided to adopt”—“to pay no further in-
terest to British bondholders until Britain
has dealt with Australia’s overseas debt in
the same manner as Britain dealt with her
own foreign debt with America.” Evidently
a case for a keeper and a padded cell.
ANOTHER CENSORSHIP.
“Though the N.S.W. Labor Government is deter-
mined to go on with its plans for dismissing
married women from it's teaching staff, it is an-
nounced that cases of those living apart from their
husbands will be considered on their merits.”
MINISTER DAVIES: “You tell me this instant
why you aren’t living with your husband
or I’ll give you the sack.”
Papua’s civil service is the latest to
have its cup of sorrow brimmed over. An
ordinance provides that deductions may be
made from all salaries, the amount not to
exceed 10 per cent.. Now the air is’ full of
complaint; and . there is more reason for
it here than in most places, the Papuan
service having always been ill paid. Cuts
have been general throughout the Pos-
session; not only have the wages of
the white toiler been reduced, but even
the ration scale of cherished brown brother
has been docked.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBIE'S INKS”
Sol M.”: Conan Doyle, the proprietor
of Sherlock Holmes, died an enthusiastic
spiritualist, but for nearly nine months
attempts to connect with his ghost have
failed. Special efforts will probably be made
now, for if he can be found, and if he can
find Sherlock Holmes, it may result in the
identification of the anonymous cinder for
whom Arthur Alfred Rouse lies under 'sen-
tence of death. Spiritualism has here its
real opportunity, for it has the spectre of
a great criminologist on tap and a great
crime mystery to its hand. Rouse’s car was
found blazing by the roadside near North-
ampton, and the anonymous man blazing
inside it. Somebody, supposed to be a stran-
ger but afterwards admitted by Rouse to
have been himself, was hanging around about
two furlongs away, and looking casual. He
disappeared casually.. The police assumed
at first that the human cinder and the owner
of the car were one and the same, and the
matter might have ended there, but Rouse,
junior, aged six and illegitimate (his father
having led a double or numerous life), re-
marked that said father had come home in
a hurry and left the same way, and as a
result he was found leading an anonymous
life among the long-winded and unpronounce-
able hills of Wales. Rouse denied all
acquaintance with the human cinder, and
ascribed his abandonment of a valuable car
and his subsequent flight to innocent and
blameless excitement. If the spirit of Sher-
lock Doyle feels like solving a crime mystery
and at the same time proving that .spooks
have a real existence the opportunity is first-
THE PERFECT MATCH.
“Vera’s costume suit her?”
“Ought to. It’s guaranteed not to shrink or run.”
X.S. : Kew (Vic.) councillors affected to
be amused when a ratepayer wrote asking
for a new house number, as he objected to
10, but the general tendency of authority
nowadays is to humor the superstition. So
many subscribers objected to 13 as their
th , e de P ar tment long
ago »ave up the struggle and presented it
as a permanency to the morgue. There are
0 ca /? ms w l.tfi the fatal number on over-
L mers ’ 12A usually being substituted,
Ihe figure seven has an equally sinister
significance m most Asiatic countries. I
knew a telegraph operator in Singapore who
mmiJrnl Said Blsmillah when sending that
* * * *
66 r* a **
C5-Q. : Midget-golf finance got a bad
£ rss«.“ a
■sraa jSr, tsssjt
conveit a vacant city block into a charming
pleasaunce equipped with the usual para-
phernalia. She agreed to support the pro-
ject, they floated a company with a nominal
capital of £15,000, allotted themselves 12,000
shares and her 4000, gave themselves salaries
of £9 10s. and £l2 per week respectively,
and prepared to receive visitors. In the
upshot there was a debt of £li33 outstanding
and no assets, and the lady had been induced
to guarantee debts to builders. All told, the
flutter cost her between £3OOO and £4OOO.
* * * *
“Dress Regs.”: I wonder the N.S.W. High-
land Society hasn’t remonstrated with one
or the Sydney newspapers for referring to
the “busby” worn by artist Harry McGlel-
land, whose portrait in
Highland garb by Mclnnes
has been awarded this year s
Archibald prize. The head-
gear in question is a feather
bonnet. The busby is a fur
or lambs’ wool contraption,
part of the full-dress uni-
form of hussars, artillery-
men and others, including
the modern air forces. The designs vary
with each arm, the whole lot differing again
from the bearskin of the Guards and the
Scots Greys.
* * * *
“Tiki": An earth tremor—even an in-
nocuous one—is an awe-inspiring affair. I’ve
experienced dozens of them, of varying de-
grees of severity, and I’ve always had the
fear of death on me till they were over-
past—or rather underpast. Invariably, in
my experience in M.L., they come on a still,
cloudy day or night; not a breath of wind
stirring. Then suddenly there’s a rumbling
overhead—a't least, it seems overhead —and
if you are in a house the walls start to
rock, at first gently, then faster and faster.
Electric lights swing like pendulums on their
cords in long arcs; pictures on the walls
rattle. If it is a fairly severe ’quake there’s
a sound of breaking crockery in various
parts of the house as vases, jugs and plates
are cast to the floor. On the night of the
great Cheviot ’quake of 1901 I was working
in an office four storeys high in a Christ-
church building. It swayed terrifically, and
one could hear the bricks in the stout walls
cracking. What put the climax to my terror
was that a large ebony ruler rolled off my
table and fell with a horrid crash. Luckily
nothing more happened—the city was 100
miles away from the centre of that dis-
turbance. A few weeks later I had occasion
to go to Mackenzie (that’s the Cheviot town-
ship), and saw the toppled-over chimneys
and the giant steps that had been formed
when the fissures in the tortured earth joined
up again—at, different levels.
* * * *
“Fernland’’: Before Napier and Hastings
w'crc smitten and laid waste, Maorilanders
didn’t take earthquakes very seriously. In §2
years-—which is as long as records have been
kept—the death-roll from such causes totalled
only 22, and that included the 15 fatalities
in the big shake of 1929. Sydney has as
many deaths through motoring accidents in
a couple of weeks. Yet on an average there
are a hundred quite palpable .shakes in Fern-
land every year. There have been four deaths
in Wellington—three in the ’quake of 1848,
and one in the disturbance of 1855, which
was regarded as the most severe in the his-
tory of the islands until that of 1929 came
along; but otherwise the capital, though it
is not far_ from the North Island fracture-
zone, hasn’t suffered much damage. Nelson
had some buildings toppled over in the 1929
shake, and Christchurch has twice had its
cathedral spire broken. That ends the
tally of disaster in' towns prior to the latest'
calamity.
“Fernie”: Napier was one of the most
picturesque of the Dominion’s towns
Situated on a triangularly shaped peninsula
it had two sea frontages. A fine esplanade
bordered by fir-trees, faced the outer ocean'
and a breakwater, constructed of huge rect-
angular concrete blocks, afforded protection
to shipping. In great storms those blocks
are hurled about as if they were susrar-
lumps. The town is the capital of the nro-
vince of Hawkes Bay, whicti originally was
part of Wellington Province J ? he fust
settlers were officers and civil servants
retired from Indian service, who took un
sheep-farming in the ’fifties and ’sixtief
Napier is named after Sir Charles of that
iiKj cinci tnc pioneer -A-nfirlo-Indicinsi havp loft
other mementoes in Hastings-street <.n,t
ass
ssitasa ssaJssshßi
peninsula to load the Settlers’ wool; a little
huddle of stores naturally accumulated there,
and so a town was founded. At a recent
estimate the population of Napier was
16,000. Hastings, 12 miles to the south,
which was also practically razed by the
’quake, was credited with a population of
11,000.
* * * *
“Mervski”: Vic. weather bureau has a
new ally in the air force. A Bulldog fighter
went, up to 16,000 feet above Melbourne and
BUT PERHAPS IT WAS THE
DEPRESSION.
“I believe that young Daggs couple have taken a boarder.”
“Yes. She believes in the old saying : ‘What is home without another?”
took thermometer readings. An immediate
result was information explaining a change
that occurred shortly afterwards. A wedge
of cool south-westerly air forced itself into
a warm northerly current at 2000 feet,
leading to thunderstorms. No trace of Mel-
bourne’s missing summer was found, but
it is hoped to make the scheme part of the
regular routine of weather prophecy and
warning notices to aviators.
* * * *
“Penfield”: The more children you can
afford the fewer you have; from which you
may lay down the general rule that if people
can afford other entertainment they won't
be bothered with youngsters. In the last
few years we have almost wallowed in
money; not our own certainly, but money
just the same. In 1914, when
the world went mad, every 100
mothers in Australia averaged
322 children; by 1930 we had
worked the average down to 296.
For a year or two after Harold
and Angelique marry there is
apparently no more thought of
cutting down the birth-rate
than ever there was. Inciden-
tally, the little mistakes that
happen before marriage are no
more numerous in proportion
than they used to be, in spite of
silk stockings and other things;
the fractional difference is in
favor of to-day. In both years
1914 and 1929 33 per cent, of
the first births happened before
mother had been nine months
married. For a year or two
after that Harold and Angeli-
que do very well. At two years
married the average 100
mothers now have 128 children;
in 1914 they had only 116. At
four years married the modern
matron is still ahead —212
children per 100 mothers a£
against 211 in 1914. But then
year by year they go slow on
the job; and at 10-years mar-
ried 100 modern mothers have
had 414 children as against the
pre-war mother’s 441. Harold’s
chance of being the father of
triplets doesn’t vary greatly;
somewhere about every 13,000 th time the
Stork drops a bundle there are three heads
to count.
* * * *
“M.S.C.” : “Whitehall” charges Australian
women with being the* world’s most slavish
imitators of the fashions of other countries
(B. 28/l/’3l). I would advise him to get
an eyeful of his typist in a cool open-necked,
short-sleeved confection. Then, as he dabs
at his brow and runs his fingers around a
clammy collar, a momentary doubt may
come to him as to which of the sexes is the
more abject slave of fashion.
* ❖ % $
“Bloggs” : According to a cable :
While the Earl of Rosslyn occupies a stateroom
on a liner bound for the West Indies, his 21-year-
old son is working his passage as a steward at
10s. a day.
The marvel is that his Lordship has the
money for a stateroom these hard times.
He has been going bankrupt off and on for
over 30 years, and has tried vainly to earn
an adequate crust in a dozen different direc-
tions, ranging from the stage to the selling
of manure. His son and heir married Sheila
Chisholm, of Sydney, who divorced him. and
his sister married Percy Fitz Gerald, of the
Melbourne brewing family—they also were
divorced. The son who has taken to stewarding
is the earl’s eldest by his third wife, and
will not inherit the title and family liabili-
ties. They go to the eldest son of the Sydney
lady, who became Lord Loughborough when
his father died a couple of years ago.
* ❖ Jj«
“P.X.”: Looks as though John Bull and
Joanna might think of a few economies, too.
It was reckoned up lately that between them
John and Joanna buy over 100 million
cigarettes a day, and that the year’s bill is
approximately 448 millions sterling. On
top of that there are tobacco and cigars;
and the tobacco bill is a shade larger than
the bill for cigarettes. The cigar, on the
other hand, is becoming almost an extinct
weed; five years ago, so these figure fiends
say, 8,800,000 were every day bought (and
presumably either smoked or given away),
compared with a mere 4,300,000 now.
Approximately 10 million more cigarettes
. are smoked per day than were burned in
1924, and if Father Christmas left the year’s
supply in every stocking, dad’s, mum’s and
the kids’, dividing them up equally, every
parcel would hold 912 cigs,; across in the
U.S.A. it is reckoned that 856 would be
enough. The astounding growth of the “fag”
figures is credited largely to women; and
the guess is made that if the American
woman smoked as much as her mother-in-
law in Britain the U.S. total figures would
be equal to John and Joanna Bull’s. It
interests us in Australia to think that if
only John and Joanna, remembering all the
good money of theirs we have borrowed and
spent, would buy each a money-box, and
drop into it every day the cash they would
otherwise smoke, in 14 months they could
hand us enough to pay off all our overseas
debts and buy us a bottle or two to start
us off afresh on the track. It is an idea
well worth thinking over.
* * * *
“Wellow”: At the declaration of the poll
at Aslifield the confident assertion of the late
member, now Justice McTiernan, that “Parkes
had definitely gone to Labor and would re-
main Labor for all time” was not unnatu-
rally resurrected. There can hardly have
been a worse bit of political meteorology in
Australian history; it would of course have
been forgotten in a few years, but a mere
16 months was too soon to forget it in.
Writer once heard a Westralian Labor mem-
ber, as shrewd and pertinacious as they make
’em, unable to restrain his exultation at
dropping into what looked like a life seat,
after one or two rebuffs. “I’ll take a mighty
lot of shifting now,” he told his audience,
and it looked a pretty sound proposition. But
after 10 cushy years there came the con-
scription split, and, having ranged himself
on the wrong side, out he went, not for one
term but two. Predicting what any con-
stituency will or won’t do is hazardous work.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Queer domestic relationships? I
know, a Melbourne woman who is in the
peculiar, if not unique, position of having
an elder half-sister and a younger half-
brother who are not related to one another.
The elder sister is the offspring of, say, Mr.
and Mrs. Blank. The latter died, and Blank
took a second wife. After the birth of a
daughter, Blank died; later his widow re-
married, and my friend’s half-brother was
the consequence of the manoeuvre.
* * * *
Centurion”: From Britain comes the an-
nouncement of a new gun which threatens
to. add to the unpleasantness of warfare.
Primarily designed as an anti-aircraft arm,
it can be just as freely employed for ground
work, and has a vertical range of 51 miles
and a horizontal one of seven. It fires 151 b.
shells at the rate of 25 a minute, and its
field of fire is all round the compass. Those
who helped in the Light Horse dispute with
Jacko the Turk at Bir el Abd during his
retreat from Romani will agree that these
dual-purpose guns are objectionable things.
The Unspeakable had only two, and these
he turned on the observing ’planes and the
attacking troops indiscriminately. The
shells were small—about 81b. probably—but
they arrived at a velocity not equalled by any
gun encountered up to then on the Eastern
front. Fired in batches of four, the drum-
ming of the discharges hardly caught the ear
before a piece of the bursting shell —segment
shrapnel mostly—threatened to do so.
REALITIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A tradesman and farmer would like to meet a
real Woman, plain and homely, with means.”.
— “Age” view mat. advt.
Wanted, a real Woman! Has he quested,
I wonder then, so long for the ideal
And been so regularly foiled and bested
That he must lay such stress upon the
real?
Unless it’s that, the phrasing tends to shock
one.
Who in his sober senses wants a mock one?
But “plain and homely”! Now wliat scant
acumen
Is indicated ’neath this suitor’s hat,
For when the dickens did a real woman
Admit, much less assert, that she was that?
How harsh they sound, how veritably
grating,
Such stipulations in a call for mating!
Wanted, a real Woman ! One “with means”
too.
It’s out! Brunette or blonde, he doesn’t
care.
No type of personality he leans to
Provided only personalty’s there.
As quid pro quo for matrimonial fealty
The one reality he seeks is realty.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Mudurup” : The discovery of a crumbling
skeleton among some rocks near the mouth
of the Moore Biver, 50 miles north of Perth,
and of a dozen or more foreign coins, dated
from 1614 to 1648, half a mile away, is a
reminder that Dutch sea-dogs were finding
reefs and losing ships on this part of the
continent a century before Cook was born.
The wreck of Pelsart’s Batavia on the
Abrolhos, and the subsequent bloody work
there, occurred in 1628. The Hollanders, on
their way to Batavia, kept nosing around,
though they found nothing to attract them
in the sterile-looking country. In 1649, it
is recorded in Battye’s “West Australia,’’
“the Vergulde Draecke,' laden with rich
NOW WHAT DID THE GIRL MEAN?
“Betty, if you don’t let me kiss you I must go right away.”
“Well, I’m not stopping you, Bobby—you can go as far as you
like.”
merchandise and money, was wrecked in lab
30 [not far north of the latest find] _ and
118 lives were lost. Seven of the survivors
managed to reach Batavia, leaving 68 behind
them to protect the cargo and treasure.
Relief ships were dispatched to the locality
at intervals for years later, five of them in
all. but “nothing was ever heard of the
castaways.” The dates on the coins suggest
that the bones may have belonged to one of
them, or to one of the crew of the would-be
rescue ships, which sustained their casualties,
too. on that frowning coast-line. The island
of Rottnest, which began its history under
British occupation as a gaol for native
prisoners and has been gradually transformed
into a pleasure resort, was discovered by
one of these rescue ships in 1658.
* * =!= *
“O. de V.” ; Since our dog departed this
life, following an error of judgment during
an argument with a fast-moving car, one
result of the depression has been very evi-
dent. We have been inundated with hawkers
trying to sell every portable article imagin-
able. with a few new ones chucked in. Yester-
day a student of psychology joined the crowd
that leaves the gate open. His line con-
sisted of small enamelled plates for attach-
ing to gates bearing the warning iNo
Hawkers or Canvassers Need Call.”
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: A Sydney journal’s version
of the cabled story of the Bedouin sheiks
sentenced to death
by the Turks for
being concerned in
a rising appeared
under the heading
“Seek Ka r m a.”
and described how
the condemned men
sat in silence,
cross-legged and
with eyes turned
upwards, practis-
ing self-hypnotism
and analysing the
state of their souls.
Karma is the name
applied by Budd-
hists to the spiri-
tual law of retribu-
tion whereby a
man’s deeds in one
incarnation are
visited on him in
the next. The
practice of holy in-
trospection is com-
mon to Buddhists
and Brahmins, but
the Moslem Be-
douin, eager for a
heaven full of wine
and women, would
have little thought
of Karma. He
would also have as much use for soul analy-
sis as one of his camels would have for a
pocket-handkerchief.
H: ❖ * *
“Morita” : Another distinction the Isle of
Man can claim (B. 28/l/’3l) is the astound-
ing percentage of Diggers who claimed to
be of Manx descent during the war. There
was a reason for it, of course, vv hen
English leave was limited to 10 days the
War Office, realising that a soldier bound
for Man and other islands in the U.lv.
would spend a good whack of his furlough
travelling, allotted an extra two days as com-
pensation. Passes from France were made
out to a man’s intended destination, and
immediately half the A.I.F. who were going
on leave swore they had grandmothers or aged
aunts or other remote relatives dwelling in
the place that Hall Caine has done so much
to put on the map. Whether a man ended
up there or not of course didn’t matter, but
so many officially left France for Man
that the privilege was suddenly withdrawn,
except where a soldier could furnish proof
that he had relatives there.
* * * *
“O. De V.”: Touching the chances of re-
covering things lost by bathers. A girl
dropped her glasses, case and all, in the
surf at Terrigal (N.S.W.) at the week-end,
and all hands joined in the search. The tide
was high, the beach
very steep, and a
heavy surf breaking,
and it was just mar-
vellous luck that my
bare foot trod on the
lost glasses as a wave
was sucking them
seawards again.
There was an inter-
val for congratula-
tions, but one gaunt
figure in black bath-
ing togs and a de-
pressed air, holding
one hand to his face,
continued to pace
moodily along the
water's edge. “It’s
all right, Dig,” some-
one shouted, “they've
found them!” The
despondent figure
glanced back, remov-
ing the hand to dis-
play an empty eye-
socket. “She’s dead
lucky,” he com-
mented. “I’ve lost
me eye!”
“Adelaide”: An
“analysis of churches”
has been made in S.
Aus., at the request
of radio authorities
wishing to give a fair
allegation of broad-
cast services. The
State has always
been known as strong
in Wesleyans and
short in R.C.’s.
Present figures show
one-third Anglican,
one-fourtli Methodist,
and one-seventh K.C.
The next best, is
only one-twentietii,
which fraction repre-
sents Presbyterian
and also Lutheran,
the former influen-
tial in the city, the latter in the country.
* * * *
“FY7” : The shearers’ strike just drawing
to a close in Queensland recalls the Donny-
brook of 40 years ago. The strikers then
(and good, solid grievances they had), were
concentrated in large camps at such stra-
tegic points as Barcaldine, Blackall, Mutta-
burra and St. George. From these strong-
posts mounted patrols ranged the country,
endeavoring to fend off the volunteer labor
that was coming in from N. S. Wales and
elsewhere. Peaceful persuasion was the
rule at first, but tempers soon got heated.
“Free laborers” and escorting police were
attacked —J. M. Niall, now head of Golds-
brough, Mort, was one of the chief actors
in a rare old dust-up at (Clermont. Tram-
wrecking enterprises followed. In one case
the wooden supports of a railway bridge
were sawn through, and many lines were
tampered with. Sheds with free labor were
raided and the men carried off to the camps,
where they were held as prisoners. Then
came a campaign of night raiding and the
burning of woolsheds by unknown patrols.
The police, good as they were, were too few
to cope with a situation which grew more
serious every day. At that time each State
managed its own military affairs. Horace
Toaer, then Home Secretary of Queensland,
took matters by the scruff of the neck. A
STEPS AND STARES.
bill which practically conferred the powers
of martial law on the authorities was passed,
and a considerable body of troops, mounted
infantry, infantry and artillery, was dis-
patched to Barcaldine, the nerve centre ot
the strike. The MI. was _ augmented by
mounted and armed special constables,
troops of which were based on several
Queensland townships, patrolling, as did the
M. 1., the surrounding stations. From the
moment of the arrival of these forces at
strike headquarters violence ceased. Before
long the tracks were covered with beaten
and workless men, dependent on the stores
of the stations they passed through for their
nightly meal, and half-envying those of tlieir
leaders who were in gaol.
* * * *
“All Fours”: A witness in a Sydney
police-court case the other day, asked what
games of cards he was addicted to, men-
tioned, in addition to half a dozen modern
ones, ecarte and faro. I suspect that he
would have some difficulty in finding an
opportunity to indulge in either nowadays.
Ecarte, perhaps one of the best of all two-
handed games, had a vogue of a century or
two—readers of Conan Doyle’s “Briga-
dier Gerard” will remember the part it is
made to play in an episode of Wellington’s
Peninsular campaign. Up to the close of
the last century it throve in the more sedate
English clubs as an accessory to whist —
some of such institutions, indeed, only per-
mitted these two games in their cardrooms —
and it may still survive in a few of them,
but mostly it is as obsolete as piquet. _ The
attractions of faro may still be available
to seasoned gamblers behind closed doors;
it is nearly 40 years since I have seen it
played in the open. That was at a race
meeting at Kimberley, South Africa, where
half a dozen tables or more were doing- a
brisk business and seemed to be commanding
more attention than the horses. •
* . * *
“E.A.W.” (London) : In The Bulletin
(29/10/’3O) “O. McKay M.” writes of the
‘'nightly wave of drunkenness that floods
the east and north of London,” and refers
to public-houses that “swarm with besotted
men and women and even children.” lie
saw such things, he says, while collecting
“human-interest” items for a Sunday paper.
I am a clergyman working in Bethnal Green,
and I know Stepney, Shoreditch, Hoxton,
Poplar and Spitalfields better than most,
but I have not seen this nightly wave of
drunkenness nor these crowds of besotted
persons. I don’t say that the East-endcr
does not drink, but I do say that I have
seen more drunkenness about Foveaux,
Kippax and Elizabeth streets, and round
Campbell-street, in Sydney, than I ever have
in Bethnal Green. Drunkenness, of course,
there is in London’s East End, and one may.
see a drunken brawl occasionally, but there
are no police trawlers to snatch up Lie
drunks as there are in Sydney. If “O.
McKay M.” had said that gambling was on
the increase he would have been nearer
the mark.
* * * *
“Bangemall”: Down-and-nearly-out doc-
tors and alcohol-submerged lawyers were
not at all infrequent in the earlier
days of the Westralian goldfields, and
the further ’from the coast you got
the greater the chance there was of meet-
ing one or two. It almost seemed as if they
gravitated towards the out-back settlements
in the hope that their failings—which gener-
ally resolved themselves into one confirmed
failing—would be less harshly judged there.
Which was precisely what happened, partly,
perhaps, because of the lessened regard for
conventions in the mulgaland outposts and
partly because there were communities where
any sort of professional man, even if .lie was
rarely sober, was better than none at all. I
can recall a white-wliiskered solicitor whose
periodical jamborees had queered his pit ,,
in the coastal towns, hut who could handle
a police-court case, draw up a deed or fight
a mining dispute as well as the best prac-
titioner who could be brought from outside
—though if his liquor were not cut off or
strictly rationed for a few days before he
was wanted his clients were liable to be
slipped up. And I retain memories of a
doctor, said to have been a student of mark
in his London hospital days, who was so
conscious of his own declension that lie would
refuse to attend any patient in the ordinary
way, but in the case of dire need or an occa-
sional impulse of good nature would some-
times make a diagnosis or scrawl a snaky
prescription. He was quite indifferent about
fees, unless beer was unobtainable otherwise,
when he would accept sufficient to cover his
immediate needs.
!|! * * *
“Footzac” : “Der Jong’s” reference to Oom
Paul Kruger’s buried millions (B. 21/1/’3l)
sets me thinking of an experience of mine after
the Boer War. It was in 1903 and I was one
of a party building quarters for the Baden
Powell police force at Nells Spruit, where
Com Paul had his last seat of government
in a railway train. We heard a lot about the
three millions Kruger was supposed to have
had when he left Pretoria but which was
never taken into Portuguese territory. One
Sunday, mooching around the Crocodile E alls,
and hoping I might strike a clue to the
hidden hoard, I came across two Boers.. They
were very surly and uncommunicative at
first, but presently they thawed sufficiently
to tell me they were prospectors, with a
claim close by. I assumed an entire ignor-
ance of mining and one of them showed me
their “workings.” All they had done was
to clean the river silt out of two large
crevices below the Falls to a depth of some
50 feet, and they were starting on a thiru.
They had no mining appliances whatever,
that I could see, not even a panning-off dish.
I learned later that both had in the
Government service in Pretoria. Whatever
they were looking for, it certainly wasnt
alluvial gold; I have often wondered since
whether they found it.
* * * *
“Centurion”: It is announced that the
Imperial War Office is finding difficulty in
keeping the regular army up to its present
not very adequate strength of 193,000. Pay
and conditions for T. Atkins are so good
nowaday's in comparison with 30 years ago
and unemployment is so rife that one would
have thought the recruiting sergeants job
would be an easier one. There are other con-
siderations which might be expected to make
military' service more popular for the rank
and file. Thirty years ago, the man who
rose from the ranks —unless he had influence
and enlisted for that purpose only—was a
rare exception. It will stand to the eternal
credit of many that they overcame then-
difficulties —Sir William Robertson toi
example, rose from a cavalry trumpeter to
become Chief of the G-eneral Staff during
the Great War. To-day the road is thrown
open to aspiring rankers. Often an able
lad can reach his commission from the ranks
quicker than the schoolboy who has to pass
in and out of Sandhurst, especially if he
lias the chance of a little active service m
the process.
* * * *
“Tongariro” : I recall a Maorilahd earth-
quake that did a friend of mine a. good
turn. He had been courting a girl—or
attempting to do so—for over a year, but
he was so bashful and tongue-tied that
matters made little progress. One sultry' after-
noon when they were sitting on a verandah
seat there came a sound like thunder. Ih en
the lawn in front of them seemed to be trying
to emulate sea waves, and the house started
to rock and then to rattle in a most alarm-
ing- fashion. The girl threw both arms round
liis neck and moaned “Oh, save me, BU,
save me!” Bill .with great promptitude
picked her up and ran out on to the lawn
just as a chimney crashed through tin
verandah roof and distributed bricks all o\e
the seat they had been sitting on. Ihe story
from there on is a. bit vague, but Bill weiu
home that evening knowing that his ina
job on the morrow would be to visit/
jeweller and buy a ring. He married tue
girl, too.
THE POET’S REQUISITES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Probably far more good Australian bush rhymes
have been written in dinner jackets than in dun-
garees.’’—Red Rage, 4/2/’3l.
The dinner-jacketed galoot who never
humped his drum,
He hitches up his snowy cuffs and bids the
Muses come.
He sings the bush, the glorious bush, its
sunlit plains or grey; ,
He makes you hear the magpies as they hail
the breaking day;
He limns the lonely prospector who knaps
the reefs outback;
The shear-blades’ clash is in his rhymes and
eke the stockwhip’s crack,
lie sings the wind that sways the gums, the
river on its bars,
The magic of tfie hinterland, the glory ot
the stsrs.
No place for cracking up the bush be well
assured of that —
Beats a suburban bungalow or well-appointed
flat.
Meanwhile the bloke in dungarees, these
myriad joys amid,
Who feels divine afflatus stir beneath his
sweat-soaked lid,
Is just as surely liable to turn from rolling
downs
And winding roads to feature the amenities
of towns. ,
His fancy strays from where the drought
bakes or the duststorm swirls
(Where men are men, in short) to dwell on
haunts where girls are girls.
The city’s lure is in his lines, the laughing
crowds, the bands
Of bathers where the creaming waves break
on the golden sands.
The spreading plains, the hills that rise upon
the skyline dim,
As themes for lilting minstrelsy have scant
appeal for him.
To each his own. No preconceived illusion
it disturbs
That Urbs should write so feelingly of Bus,
and Bus of Urbs.
But like a flash it comes to me, I realise
it now,
The reason why no laurels wave about my
furrowed brow.
Of town, and country, too, for years I’ve
diligently sung,
Yet never seemed to reach or near the
ladder’s topmost rung.
Fool that I was! How could I hope to do
what he achieves
Whose arms are daily thrust into a dinner-
jacket’s sleeves?
Garments a-many have I worn, but never
one of these....
Nor was it ever mine to don a pair of
dungarees!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


miisi
■
18ct. Gold and Platinum,
£l4/14/-
18ct. Gold and Platinum,
£l5/15/-
DIAMOND
RINGS
Fairfax & Roberts’ Diamond
Rings represent the keenest
possible value. We buy direct
from the markets of the world,
and choose diamonds for their
colour, fire and brilliance.
These are mounted in hand-
fashioned settings of exclusive
beauty. “Fx & R” Diamond
Rings are offered at pre-tariff
prices, and no better value is
procurable.
18et. Gold and Platinum,
£2O
V*v
18ct. Gold and Platinum,
£l5/15/-
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
UONWAT
ITH lime juice
Ready to take you on!
The tennis girl knows a thing or two; she
has found that ‘Montserrat’ Lime Juice
keeps her fit. It is Nature’s healthy drink —
strong in vitamins.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING GROCERS.
Bottled by Schweppes, Ltd., Sydney,
by arrangement with
Evans, Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd.
•SCHWEPPES LIME JUICE CORDIAL
is made exclusively from Montserrat.
F#
V
“ON T
FRUIT Jlfl c
U.
m
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“Texas” Green, now Postmaster-General,
has far better qualifications for his new job
than he ever had for the Defence Depart-
ment, to which Senator Daly has gone. For
a dozen years or so “Texas” worked at top
pressure in the Ivalgoorlie post office. His
job was the issuing and cashing of money
orders, and although nobody could have fea-
tured a future P.M.G. in the strenuous being
who supplied facilities for the dispatch or
collection of money, and all sorts of informa-
tion in connection therewith, to all apd
sundry, there could hardly have been a more
obliging or painstaking officer —even when
the mercury was topping the 100 for days
together. His obvious and proven capacity
for hard work was perhaps his best asset
as a Parliamentary candidate, for he was
never much of a speaker.
Like Fenton and Lyons, Governor-General
Isaacs in his Parliamentary days once left
a Cabinet on a question of principle. This
was in May, 1893, when he resigned his port-
folio in the Patterson Ministry because lie
disagreed with Attorney-General O’Loghlen
and the majority of his' colleagues on the
question of prosecuting certain directors of
a collapsed financial institution.
Dr. Peter Buck, a distinguished Maori
scientist, is to go to Yale as lecturer on
anthropology. Dr. Buck held several respons-
ible posts in his own land before he was
lured to Honolulu to take charge of the
Bishop Museum, Egypt and Gallipoli saw
him in the war, and he gained his D.S.O.
in France. He is as popular as he is brainy.
Ethelbert Alfred Ransom, the Maoriland
Minister who is in charge of the relief meas-
ures in the earthquake-stricken district of
H’awkes Bay, looks like an Emeritus pro-
fessor of divinity, but appearances are decep-
tive. He is a sheep-farmer by vocation —his
property is near the border of the devastated
province—and in his youth was a first-class
tennis-player and a notable Rugby footballer.
Since 1922 he has represented Pahiatua in
Parliament. Following the United party’s vic-
tory in 1928 he was included in Ward’s
Cabinet as Minister of Public Works, George
Forbes being allotted Lands. When Forbes
E. A. RANSOM, M.L. Minister for Lands,
Minister in charge in the earthquake
area.
became Priminister he gave Lands to Ransom,
and appointed him acting-Premier before going
to London. Ransom is a capable adminis-
trator and a man of quick decisions, so it
is probable that what has to be done and
can be done in the devastated area will be
accomplished as quickly as is humanly pos-
sible.
Mayor Jolly, of Greater Brisbane, the first
wearer of the rabbit-skin in Queensland to
be elected by the ratepayers, is turning in
his job. He was first raised to the throne
in 1925, and made such a capable fist of it
that he was given a second spell. Brisbane-
born, he is an accountant and auditor, and,
finding that the mayoralty is a whole-time
job, has resolved to let it slide rather than
his business. Under the amended constitu-
tion, Brisbane lias returned to the old method
of electing the Mayor by a vote of the aider-
men, with all the wirepulling and logrolling
inseparable from the system. Jolly’s term
expires at the end of this month ; vice-Mayor
Watson will carry on until the municipal
elections in May.
Old John West, who died last week, had
been M.H.R.
for East
Sydney for
20 years.
“O 1 d John”
was an anom-
aly in this
way: though
a master-
plumber, an
employer and
a member of
an employers’
association, he
sat for Surry
Hills and
the reabouts,
where it looks
hard to grow
up into any-
thing else but
a Bolshie. His
c o n n e ction
with the move-
ment, how-
ever, dated
back to the
days when
there wasn’t
any talk of
class-conscious-
ness, and only
a man’s opin-
ions counted.
He was never a
statesman, but
he attended
more meetings
than he ate
dinners, an d
he had a
knack of mak-
i n g friends
at most of
them.
Old JOHN WEST.
When Dr. Mark Gardiner and Sir Gould.
May met in Melbourne the other day they
renewed a friendship begun in wartime
Petrograd, where the Australian specialist
and the famous gynaecologist were attached
to the Red Cross. They moved nearer the
front during 1915 and 1916. When the
Revolution came Sir* Gould returned to Lon-
don and took charge of a hospital for British
officers maintained by a wealthy Russian
woman. Revolutions have long arms, how-
ever, and the patron’s estates were confis-
cated by the Bolsheviks.
Of the numerous Laborites who found
their way into the N.S.W. Assembly in 1917
by winning the seats of expelled Labor
conscriptionists, only four, Burke, Davies,
Lazzarini and McKell, remain. One-time
tramwayman Burke, who licked Hollis for
Newtown, is now Speaker. Davies, the
dapper little ex-miner who bumped J. B.
Nicholson out of Wollongong, has become
Lang’s Minister of Education. Billy McKell,
the young boilermaker who ousted ex-Premier
McGowcn from Redfern, is Minister for
Local Government. Lazzarini, the voluble
and rotund clothing-trades organiser who
defeated T. S. Crawford (now a Crown Pro-
secutor) for Marrickville, held Cabinet rank
under Dooley and Lang.
Colonel C. M. Macnaghten, whose death
in Montreal is reported, will be remembered
by many as a practising solicitor in Sydney
in pre-war days. A son of Sir Leslie Mac-
naghten, a soldier witli much Indian experi-
ence and for years Chief of the C. 1.8. at
Scotland Yard, Macnaghten was early away
from Australia at the outbreak of war, and
occupied a front seat at the Landing as
Adjutant of the 4th Battalion. Here he was
wounded; later, when commanding the bat-
talion at Lone Pine, lie got a more severe;
issue which ultimately led to his being in-
valided out of the service, with a C.M.G.
as compensation. He was only 52 at Last
Post.
“Adam Ant” : If our new Governor-General
were to pay an official visit to the Melbourne
Public Library—just 75 years old this month
—he would doubtless find the red carpet of
vice-regal splendor laid for him, and a group
of trustees in top-hats waiting for him on
the top step. He was not always so welcome
there. Many years ago, when he was merely
Isaac Isaacs, M.L.A., he went to the Library
to read, and, the day being warm, took off
his coat as well as his hat. A scandalised
official remonstrated but to no avail. Finally
the democratic Mr. Isaacs was told to put
his coat on or get out. The future G.-G.
demanded to be brought before the trustees,
who happened to be in session, and eloquently
argued that a man may study in his shirt-
sleeves. But the trustees supported their
Bumble, and Isaacs had to leave, carrying
his coat.
J. J. Liston and H. G. Smith are likely
candidates for the Lud Mayoralty of Mel-
bourne next October. Liston is an ex-
Mayor of Williamstown, and is sec. of the
Liquor Trade Defence League. Smith is a
son of Dr. f. £., sometime member for
Mornington in Vic. Assembly and an honor-
ary Minister under Bryan O’Loghlen.
Two veterans among Australian Methodist
ministers are W. G. Taylor and E. J. Road,
who stepped ashore together in Sydney in
1871, both full-fledged shepherds for the Aus-
tralian pastures. Taylor, after many years
in (N.S.W.) country districts, was given
charge of a York-street congregation, where
he left a monument to his energy in the
Centenary Hall. Ilodd became a pioneer of
Methodism on the North Shore, establishing
the beginnings of several churches in what
were then bush places. Both are octo-
genarians.
Ernest Edward Barber, scoutmaster at
Renmark (S.A.) for 21 years, has held his
last parade. Senior scoutmaster in Aus-
tralia, he was looking forward to meeting
Baden-Powell. Barber, who was born in
Maoriland 48 years ago, inaugurated the
Renmark troop, and saw it win the coveted
King’s Banner in 1921 and the Trenchard
Miller Shield in 1925 against all Australia.
He had taught over 500 boys to swim, and
trained over 1000 in the craft.
Australia’s old acquaintance Douglas
Sladen bobbed up again in the cables the
ether day with some sympathetic suggestions
about the rate of exchange. Sladdn, who is
74, spent four years in Australia as a young
man, so long ago that he is no more than a
memory to the present generation. Yet ne
got a deal of press notice in his day. He
was the first professor to sit in the Chair
of History at Sydney Uni.; he published some
anthologies of Australian poetry, and he wrote
himself (“Australian Lyrics,” 1882) some of
the worst doggerel ever penned by a scholar,
including the celebrated “condensed milk
poem.” Since then he has put out no
end of books, the only one with much interest
on this side of the world being “Adam Lind-
say Gordon and his Friends” (1912), where-
in lie managed to dig up a good deal of
interest about Gordon’s early life before
he left England.
George Markwell, dead in Queensland at
77, was for many years a. prominent figure
in the social and athletic life of the State.
A member of one of Queensland’s pioneer
families, he practised as a solicitor for
some years in Brisbane before taking up
sugar-planting in the North. He was
one of the founders of the Queensland Rugby
Union and a rowing and yachting enthusiast.
One of the
best - known
ci t i zens of
We 11 i n gton
(M.L.) is G.
A. Troup, who
has been a
civic father
for so many
years that the
council would
feel quite lost
without him.
Periodically he
assumes the
fur mantle and
gold necklace,
and is wearing
these at _ the
present time.
He is a manu-
fac t u rer of
stoves and
such-like fit-
tings, and in
the days be-
fore gas and
electric cookers
almost every
dw e 1 ling in
We 11 i n gton
province and
most of those
in the pro-
vinces to tire
immediate
north rejoiced
in the posses-
sion of a Troup
range. He has
served on
various public
bodies besides
the City Coun-
cil, and was
a great worker
on behalf of
the soldiers in
the 1914-18
period.
G. A. TROUP, Mayor of
Wellington, in charge of
the Earthquake Relief
Fund.
The “Commissioners’ driver” on the Vic.
railways is Bert Rachinger. He was
appointed to haul Harold Clapp and his
colleagues around the State on their tours of
inspection four years ago, after only eight
years of experience on the footplate. He has
piloted nearly everything on wheels, from
big specials to Reso. trains, and was the
first man to drive the rail-motor sedan which
the Yic. railways built some years ago. With
the exception of Ted Burnell, his predeces-
sor, Rachinger has whirled more notables
about the country than any other Vic.
engineman.
L. J. Schmitt, Maoriland’s chief repre-
sentative in Australia—officially lie is Trade
an d Tourist Commissioner—was Melbourne-
born, though he has long been resident in
the Dominion whose Trade and Commerce
Department he joined a dozen years ago.
L. J. SCHMITT, M.L. Commissioner in
Australia.
His first large job was as oflicer-in-charge
at Christchurch; later he was secretary to
the M.L. council at the Empire Exhibition
and later still deputy-commissioner at the
M.L. exhibition at Dunedin ; and he has
been on countless other missions and com-
missions and trade inquiries.
The Goldsbrough Mort Co. has lent Lance
Lewis, its Adelaide manager, to the S.A. Gov-
ernment as chairman of its new committee
inquiring into soldier settlements and irri-
gation. Latreille, from Melbourne, will hold
his office desk meanwhile.
Robert Henry has been appointed Com-
missioner in the Salvation Army and given a
command in Canada. He joined up in Bris-
bane 37 years ago and rose to be field secre-
tary in Australia and chief secretary in
Maoriland before being transferred to another
quarter of the globe. Henry is the third
Australian officer to become a Commissioner
in the Booth organisation, the others being
William Mackenzie and Ben Orames.
Walter Pike, whose unexpected death at
Stanthorpe (Q.) robbed the Bananaland
community of an estimable citizen, was born
in Wiltshire 74 years ago. Trained. as an
agricultural chemist, he came to Brisbane
in the 1880’s with a brother who had quali-
fied as a surveyor. Openings- in either pro-
fession were not abundant, and the two
young men lit on the idea of purchasing
some bankrupt stock that was going beg-
ging, and starting a haberdashery business.
From the jump the firm prospered until it
ranked as one of the completest things of
its kind in the Empire. A keen sportsman,
Pike was a noted game-shot in his earlier
days, quail shooting on the Darling Downs
being a particular hobby, and he owned many
fine game dogs. In later years gardening
absorbed him, and his country home at Stan-
thorpe was a show place.
An outstanding personality of the N.S.W.
band competitions, at which the adjudicator
was nearly mobbed, was Bandmaster
Tommy Mellor, who has had a far longer ex-
perience of getting the best out of the big
brasses than is suggested by his cheery face
and crisp waxed moustache. Tommy was in
camp with a batch of senior trainees when
the Great War started; the campers enlisted
cn masse, and Mellor, even then well over the
acceptable military age, was co-opted on the
spot for band service. Until the last drafts
were played out, Tommy continued to wake
Liverpool with the invitation to “Pack up
Your Troubles in Your Old Kitbag.”
Westralian Senator Bertie Johnson, when
he was in State politics as M.L.A. for a
cocky electorate, was credited with retaining
his seat through all sorts of vicissitudes and
changes of political views because of his un-
varying readiness to execute shopping com-
missions for any constituent, from the high-
est to the humblest. He wrote three times as
many letters as any other Parliamentarian,
and any Narrogin woman who wanted a
skein of silk matched in Perth or a new kind
of darning-needle had only to drop a line
to the member for the district and the matter
would receive instant attention —it was all
in the day’s work for Bertie. Now that
he has the whole State for his constituency,
the Senator can hardly be'expected to be so
obliging—and there aren’t many commissions
to be executed at Canberra anyhow.


CLOTHES
FOR MEN
ď
AND THEIR
SONS
[X
&
THE “HAGEN.” A Two-tone Elkskin
and Scotch Grain Calf Leather Shoe. Rubber
sole and heel. Smart. All sizes.
PRICE, per pair
42|-
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0.
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J . R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts oi
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Persona! Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 52,981 94 p.c. = 50,502 2,479 21,168
1921.. 49,570 8 „„ 47,143- 2,429 23,597
1922.. 58,244 8 „ „ 48,733 9,511 33,108
1923.. 50,964 8 „„ 49,867 1,097 34,205
1924.. 56,184 8 „ „ 49,867 6,317 40,522
1925.. 55,086 8 „ „ 49,867 5,219 45,741
1926.. 54,242 8 „ „ 49,867 4,375 50,116
1927.. 50,488 8 „ „ 49,867 621 50,737
1928.. 60,983 8 „ „ 49,867 11,116 61,853
1929.. 46,281 8 „ „ 49,867 58,267
1930.. 39,501 6$ „ „ 40,516 57,252
In ordinary circumstances this co. would be
doing extremely well. On the Milson’s
Point and Lavender Bay runs—the co.’s
chief sources of profit—casual passengers pay
3d. for being conveyed the distance of about
a quarter of a tram-section. But the com-
pletion of the North Shore Bridge will wipe
out these as well as the vehicular ferry ser-
vices, so the board is writing down the fleet
at the rate of about £76,000 a year.- It
aims to reduce the book-value to £60,550 by
the end of the current term, and if it man-
ages to do it the course of events will have
been as follows :
Book Book
Cost Value Value
to Co. 31/12/’27. 31/12/’3l.
Milson’s Point, Lav-
ender Bay .. £209,192 £101,584 £18,750
Vehicular .. .. 201,394 123,6‘28 15,450
£410,586 £225,212 £34,200
Balance of fleet .. 291,999 104,109 26,350
Total .. .. £702,585 £329,321 £60,550
The co. delayed taking measures declared to
be necessary to effect this until Oct., 1928,
when a penny w r as added to the cash fare
on the runs referred to above. It was ex-
pected to sw T ell revenue by £35,000 p.a., but
a fall in traffic has since been reported.
Last year profit was written at £38,931,
but an addition of £570 to the insurance fund
made the £39,501 shown in the table. That
was £6780 less than in the previous term;
the interim div. was only 3$ p.c. and the
final 3 p.c., making 6J p.c. for the year, com-
pared with a steady 8 p.c. in the previous
nine years.
The wholesale writing down shows up in a
greatly strengthened liquid position :
109*7 IQOQ IQ9Q IQQfI
Liquid assets. £145,623 £265,511 £363,119 £433,971
Liabilities .. 73,609 53,391 65,520 49,861
Surplus .. £72,014 £212,120 £297,599 £384,110
The growth in the liquid surplus last year
was £86,511, making £312,096 over the past
three years. The spring in 192 S was partly
due to compensation (£78,000) received in
respect of the Milson’s Point resumption.
The co.’s comfortable finances will enable
the board to hand back 10s. per fully-paid
share, being capital not required in the busi-
ness, about March 15, absorbing £283,333, and
leaving paid capital at £340,000. To pay
8 p.c. on that, profits will have to exceed
£27,200 a year. Curtailment of the less re-
munerative .services has been mentioned.
Another cut of £76,000 in the fleet will
bring its value down to what the board con-
siders it wflll be worth ns an earning asset
after the bridge is finished. Recent move-
ments have been: —
1923. 1926. 1929. 1930.
Liabilities .. £41,727 £106,352 £65,520 £49,861
Landed property 92,277 115,125 42,820 37,829
Ship property. 403,230 379,936 212,413 136,689
Wharves and
■waiting-rooms.. 43,885 45,327 26,278 16,472
Plant & machinery 3,362 9,133 6,696 6,012
Fuel & stores, etc. 14,021 14,447 13,725 10,015
Shares in other
cos. .. .. 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors 8,900 20,328 24,018 11,449
Public securities,
etc 48,489 110,607 330,528 420,197
Cash ' . . .. 3,033 2,829 8,572 2,325
Last year’s reduction of the fleet’s book
value was £75.724, and other fixed assets
show a drop of £14,797. It is obvious that
the writing-down is being done in no half-
hearted way. The holding in the Harbor,
Land and Transport Co. remains un-
changed at £107,000. This pup took over
the parent’s land properties, or most of
them, in 1918 for £90,000 in scrip. A year
later its assets w r ere found to be worth
50 p.c. more than their book value. In 1927
the pup paid 10 p.c.; but 8 p.c. was spoken
of for the future.
The exact position of the co. in regard to
compensation claims in respect of the Tahiti-
Greycliffe disaster has not been made clear,
but apparently the risks were well covered.
Last sales of the scrip were made at 18s.,
but sellers now ask 17s. 9d., with buyers
holding off at 17s. 3d. The lOs.-paids are
priced at 7s. 6d.; these will not participate
in the return of capital, but their uncalled
liability is to be extinguished.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
Towards
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill ( £75,000) and prelim, exes. ( £393) 75,393
Less: Reserves (£367) 75,026
1925.. 156,581 15 p.c. = 112,501 44,080 30,946
Reserves.
1926.. 106,249 10 „ „ 75,001 31,248 302
1927.. 109,404 10 „ „ 75,001 34,403 34,705
1928.. 94,603 10 „ „ 75,001 19,602 54,307
1929.. 134,340 15 „ ~ 113,143 21,197 75,504
Premiums on shares, £8272 . . . . 83,776
Undertaking sold to Aus. Portland Cement
Pty.; added reserves, £311,057 .. 394,833
1930.. 41,057 13i p.c. =102,624* .333,266
♦Amount approximate.
Australian Portland Cement Pty. took over
the undertakings of this co. (at Fyansford,
Vic.) and of Kandos Cement, Ltd. (N.S.W.),
as from December, 1, 1929. Both cos. had
very modern and efficient plants, but the Vic-
torian business was considered the more valu-
able of the two. Australian Cement received
a million shares in the new operating co. for
the working assets handed over; in order
to acquire an equal holding the Kandos co.
took up an unspecified number for cash.
At November 30, 1929, this co. had net
tangible assets of £828,063. Book debts
(£139,208) and cash (£4349) were not in-
cluded in the merger, so the net tangibles
handed over amounted to £684,506. The
million pounds’ consideration shows a sur-
plus of £315,494 over that figure; actually,
the amount this co. added to its reserves was
£311,057.
Early in December, 1929, the co. bought all
the shares in National Portland Cement, Ltd.
(100,000 8-10 p.c. cnm. prefs. and 278,500
ords.) for 10,570 of its own ords. The
National co.’s plant at Maria Island (Tas.)
had been shut down indefinitely. It was
long a losing proposition. Apparently this,
too, was handed over to the new operating
co., and Australian Cement added £8272 to
its reserves in respect of the premiums on
shares issued.
This co. and the Kandos concern act as
managing agents for the operating co. in
their respective States. During the 12 months
to November 30 last the operating co. handed
on £43,750 in divs. to Australian Cement.
Another £30,000 has come in since the close
of accounts (making 7.4 p.c. on the hold-
ing), but it is not included in p. and 1.
figures. Interest, sundry sales and credits
amounted to £9810; exes., including bad
debts (£3BOO, apparently on collection of
the National Co.’s accounts) and taxation
ran off with £12,503. Thus the net result
as per table was £41,057, equal to only 5.4
p.c, on capital. The final div. paid by the
operating co. raises the ratio to 9.4 p.c. A
9 p.c. div. was paid, p. and 1. balance being
tapped for the purpose, and two bonuses, of
2 p.c. and 2| p.c. respectively, have been
paid out of profits on sale of assets. Alto-
gether, reserves were bitten into for £61,567
to pay the 13$ p.c.
It is obvious that returns to shareholders
on last year’s basis cannot be maintained.
The cement industry generally is over capi-
talised, and the prevailing economic depres-
sion is hitting all construction trades very
severely. There is a danger, too, that re-
duced turnovers may lead to a price-war
amongst cement manufacturers, particularly
in N. S. Wales, where competition is keenest.
This co.’s position is, broadly, that it holds
an equal interest with Kandos Cement, Ltd.,
in a co. which controls plant with a capacity
of over 400,000 tons p.a., or slightly less than
a third of the total plant capacity of the
w-hole Australian industry (1,350,000 tons
p.a.). The output of each plant can be
controlled to the best advantage, a certain
amount of competition has been eliminated,
and consumers as well as shareholders may
benefit when better times come along.
Australian Cement’s change over from a
working to a holding co. shows up in balance-
sheet figures:—
IQ9R IQ9Q IQ9O
Paid capital .. .. £750,005 £750,005 £760,178
Overdraft .. . . 32,329 1,859
Sundry creditors . . 49,387 158,752 6,163
Land, buildings, etc. .. 260,539 260,422
Plant, equipment, ,etc... 378,519 387,303
Tramways, tunnel, etc. 34,640 150,889
Stocks and stores .. 67,916 79,344 -
Shares in other cos. .. 300 24,050 1,023,750
Book debts .. .. 122,813 139,208 57,667
Cash, etc 11,049 4,349 63,803
Besides the shares in the Australian Port-
land Cement, the co. holds £3750 of scrip
in Bates (Australasia), Ltd., and £20,000
in Streamline Filter Co., Ltd. The finan-
cial position is easy.
In order to pay 9 p.c. on its capital this
term it will be necessary for the co. to
receive a return of more than 7.6 p.c. p.a.
on its shares in the operating co., or .2 p.c.
more than came in last year. Under the
circumstances it does not look as though
shareholders can expect more than 8 p.c.
on their scrip. The market thinks they can’t,
and pays only 19s. for the shares. The return
at that figure is 8.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, and the backing amounts to 28s. 7d.
in net tangibles, subject to any goodwill in
the operating 'co.’s accounts.'
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 319,232 15 p.c. = 157,500 86,807 437,007
1920.. 5,559 Nil 2,685 439,881
1921.. 32,926 Pref. 5p.c.=30,000 2,917 430,890
1922.. 87,241 { o?d!*“ } 4 ’ 408 440 ’ 222
All Shares.
1923.. 215,163 15 p.c.= 157,500 50,000 447,885
Reserve disclosed, £100,000.. 547,885
1924.. 84,142 Nil 183,942 448,035
1925. . 116,698 j Q^ f> 7 - P-c-=45,000 | 65>600 454,133
1926. .187,683 10 p.o. = 105,000 60,000 476,866
1927.. 99,665 j fJP-^ 45 . 000 I 23,181 508,350
1928.. 124,192 lOp.c. = 105,000 . 527,522
Hidden reserves disclosed, £424,261.. 951,783
Fixed assets written down, £377,522.. 574,261
1929.. 188,228 15 p.c. = 157,500 21,000 583,989
1930. . 50,360 j 5 P- c^= 3o > ooo l 7,200 597,149
The heavy fall in prices of silver, lead and
zinc, and a drop in the demand for fertiliser
and cement owing to industrial depression,
cut deeply into this co.’s profits last year.
Sales of products (£1,003,928) fell away
£259,586, and net interest returns, etc.,
dropped £7521, owing to extra provision for
depreciation of securities. Though mining
costs at Broken Hill and manufacturing exes,
at Cockle Creek (N.S.W.) and Seaton Carew
(Eng.) were altogether cut by £158,327 (to
£931,908), after paying an extra £4626 in
administration exes. (£14,744), disclosed
profit was only £72,593. Setting aside
£25,000 for taxation, and allowing for an
adjustment of £2767 in reserves, the year’s
net result was £50,360, £137,868 lower than
the previous year’s. No ord. div was
paid and the prefs. had to be content with
5 p.c.
The average price realised for the year’s
lead was £l9 13s. 9d., a fall of £3 Bs. Bd.;
zinc declined £4 19s. sd. a ton, silver
an ounce. The Diesel-driven generating
plant commenced working during the term,
and power costs were cut in halves. The
joint arrangements with the B. IT. Prop,
and Block 14 cos. for treating their com-
bined outputs at the Central mill doubled
the milling tonnage and spread overhead
charges; thus this co.’s costs were reduced by
Bs. 9d. a ton of lead concentrates, and Bs. 6d.
for zinc. At the end of the year the Prop,
and Block 14 suspended work owing to
low markets. Sulphide Corp. closed down
for the Christmas holidays, and with lead
now at £l3 3s. 9d. and .spelter £l2 55., has
not resumed.
The amount of Central mine ore treated
at the mill was 135,525 tons, about the same
as in the previous year. The last of the old
slimes were milled in the 1929 term. Last
year’s ore produced 24,907 tons of lead con-
centrates and 32,592 tons of zinc concen-
trates, both of higher grade than usual.
Results and assay values compare with pre-
vious years as follows :
Readies.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
iQOR f 890,984 oz. 12,518 tons. 2501 tons.
( 42.5 oz. 59.7 p.c. 11.9 p.c.
1Q97 i 1,104,758 oz. 15,903 tons. 2,653 tons
18 ‘ I 43.7 oz. 62.9 p.c. 10.5 p.c.
IQ9B i 1,399,086 oz. 17,644 tons 2,734 tons
l 50.5 oz. 63.7 p.c. 9.9 p.c.
1999 j 1,333,395 oz. 16,312 tons 2.147 tons
1 53.7 oz. 65.7 p.c. 8.6 p.c.
1930 f 1,216,773 oz. 16,407 tons 2,004 tons
1 48.9 oz. 65.9 p.c. 8.0 p.c.
Zinc.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
1926 I 217,059 oz. 1,577 tons. 11,535 tons.
( 9.2 oz. 6.7 p.c. 49 p.c.
1927 ( 268,419 oz. 1,920 tons 14,677 tons.
1 9.0 oz. 6.4 p.c. 49 p.c.
192 g j 339,096 oz. 2,096 tons 19,535 tons
l 8.6 oz. 5.3 p.c. 49.5 p.c.
1929 f 272,671 oz. 1,563 tons 18,635 tons
t 7.3 oz. 4.2 p.c. 50.1 p.c.
1930 J 186,943 oz. 1,062 tons 16,366 tons
1 5.7 oz. 3.3 p.c. 50.2 p.c.
The combined metallic recoveries, 89.3 p.c.
lead, 94.4 p.c. zinc and 92.1 p.c. silver, show
improvement of 7.4 p.c., 3 p.c. and 4 p.c.
respectively. Since the close of accounts
the grade of the lead concentrates has risen
from 66 p.c. lead to over 70 p.c. and that
of the zinc cons, from 50 to 53 p.c. zinc,
with a further reduction of silver and lead
in the latter.
Ore reserves at the Central mine are esti-
mated at 779,184 tons, of which 25,700 tons
were developed below the 1400 ft. level last
year. Assays of this deep-level ore show the
notably high average of 20.10 z. of silver, but
it is slightly poorer in lead and zinc than
the shallower ore. The Junction mine,
bought for £75,000 after the fire in 1923,
was sold to the North co. for £20,000 in 1929.
At Cockle Creek the co.’s industrial opera-
tions were curtailed throughout the year.
Production figures compare as follows: —
Cement
Sulp. Acid, Superphosphates, Clinker,
tons. tons. tons.
1924 .. 13,560 19,192
1925 .. 15,822 29,074 4,505
1926 .. 18,333 34,833 24,328
1927 .. 20,770 33,879* 42,884
1928 .. 20,541 37,919* 68,375
1929 . . 22,997 43.954* 52,985
1930 .. 16,507 34,351* 38,338
♦High grade.
Output of sulphuric acid was 6490 tons
lower, mainly due to the reduced demand
from the B.H.P. steelworks, which were
affected by the coal strike. Super, produc-
tion was down 9603 tons, owing to the
serious state of the primary industries.
Throughout Australia there has been over-
production of cement, and, due to the stop-
page in the construction trades, this co.’s
output dropped 14,647 tons. Work in this
section was suspended at the close of accounts
owing to the accumulation of stocks. The
plant has a capacity of 100,000 tons p.a.
At Seaton Carew (Eng.) 15,373 tons of zinc
concentrates ivere distilled at the co.’s zinc
works, producing 7563 tons of spelter and
10,367 of residues, a slight reduction on
the previous year. Extraction and treatment
of ore at the co.’s new mine in Wales was
not started until after the close of accounts.
It is a low-grade proposition, and after 6615
tons had been milled mining operations
ceased owing to the low price of the metals.
Development is still being carried on.
Finances slipped £104,343 last year:—
1923. 1926. 1929. 1930.
£ £ £ £
Liquid _ „
assets 1,387,570 1,034,948 1,233,001 1,097,991
Liabilities 551,922 519,527 105,684 75,017
Surplus £835,648 £515,421 £1,127,317 £1,022,974
Further, reserves in the table include
£395,336 set aside for taxation, which has
not been included with liabilities. Since the
close of accounts disputed taxation for the
years 1918 to 1924 has been assessed by the
British Government at £156,476. How much
will be required to pay the assessments for
the years 1925-31 has not been ascertained,
but the directors believe that it will not
exceed the amount set aside. The pref.
capital appears to be well covered by surplus
liquids.
In 1929 £424,261 of hidden reserves was
disclosed, and £377,522 written off fixed
assets. Mines are included with plant, etc.,
in the balance-sheet; the figure (£781,374 at
June 30 last) is £382,274 lower than m 19*8.
Working assets have been maintained in high
efficiency by revenue and capital, expendituie ,
during the last two years amortisation allow-
ances have been in excess of capital outlay.
Earnings during, the current term will
largely depend on metal prices, which are
still falling. The outlook for .much help
from the co.’s industrial operations, is not
bright either. Thus the market prices the
15s. ords. at 7s. 10d., and for the prefs.
buyers offer 14s.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers (S.A.).
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1922.. 22,425 6 p.c. = 20,414 2,211 28,794
1923.. 15,364 Nil 15 i|64 44,158
1924.. 31,061 6 p.c. = 20,414 10,847 50,005
1925 37.376 8„ „ 26,952 10,424 65,429
1926 37 419 8,, ~ 26,952 10,468 75,897
1927" 37 480 8 ” ”. 26;952 10,528 86,425
1928.. 8„ „ 26,952 1,334 87,709
1929 24 259 7„ ~ 23,583 676 88,430
SIS:: li’tm 4„ „ 13,476 2,355 90,790
The South Australian fertiliser market, in
common with the markets of other States,
has become overstocked during the last three
or four years. Large new cos. have been
formed, and, as with cement, the industry
has grown in advance of the demand. In
South Aus. the present selling price of super,
is 10 p.c. below pre-war levels. Needless to
say, modern improvements in manufacture
have been taxed to the utmost in trying to
maintain profit margins, and, as this co. s
table shows, it has been a losing fight
The co. was originally the Wallaroo Phos-
phate Co., Ltd., but during 1913 the South
Australian chemical interests of the Mt.
Lyell Mining ,Co. were merged into it. Ihe
Wallaroo co.’s capital just before the merger
was £200,000; the Mt. Lyell co. received
136,900 new fully-paids, bringing paid capi-
tal up to £336,900, at which figure it still
stands. In 1926 the Lyell co. disposed of
a large portion of its holding.
The co. has been steadily improving and
adding to its equipment. In 1928 the instal-
lation of Diesel-driven generating plant was
commenced at the co.’s Wallaroo works, and
at Birkenhead the storage accommodation
was enlarged. Though operating exes, were
thus reduced, the co. has been having great
difficulty in maintaining turnover. The
adverse effect of bad seasons over the past
three years, and overproduction in the fer :
tiliser industry, were added to in the last
term by the general depression. Gross pro-
fit remained steady around £51,000 for the
four years to 1928, but during the latter end
of that period business became costly to
(Continued on page 16.)


•fvS&v
its
O
i
s a
mm&sass,,
SBBB
:■■.■:■■■
m
/'
i
S?S
: % - ,-.;/ O
B&S*
*W:
El
m
as
■
:
THOSE who notice such things will tell you that
the characteristics of a successful business man
always show in his hands they are capable hands.
Such hands may vary greatly in shape and size, but
nearly all of them have one thing in common -ten out of
every eleven,when holding a cigarette, hold a "Capstan.
You, too, will enjoy that satisfying something in
"Capstans" which busy men find so soothing to
work-strained nerves.
Qxpsta
Made in your Own Country at the Garden Factory
Raleigh Park —by
W. D. & H. O. Wills (Australia) Ltd.
medh®3
LLS
lia)Us? Sydney
(Austra
Small and large packets.
Also tins of 50 and 100.
Also Ovaf
Heavyweights.
1293


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet “The Making oj a Will."
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
4X2 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DIFFICULT
DAYS
If you’ve got to sacrifice some-
thing, what’s it to be? Which
cos. are standing up best to the
strain? Which show signs of
being likely to disappear alto-
gether?
We shall not be always like
this. There will be a recovery
some day, and those who get in
at the bottom will make for-
tunes.
It is the “Wild Cat Monthly’s”
job to help you pick them.
FEBRUARY NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEK ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents:— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Definite proof of the excellence of Pioneer Wood
Pipe exists in the many installations carried opt
throughout Australia. In every instance Pioneer
Wood Pipe, is proving its capability to give
thoroughly efficient service on the most economical
basis. Non-corrosive, light, strong and extremely
durable, no conduit can surpass Pioneer Wood Pipe
for economical and excellent service, whilst its cost
is far below any other type of pipe. Full particulars
from the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* =l= * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE. —Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-40? Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ----- BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bamt offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
W&W26.
WtTsWiROTWN
Ml
London Office:
95 Gresham Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
fd
brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association Cm’
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
hold. Then a pronounced slump took place,
gross profit over the last two years having
fallen away £20,731 to £31,253. Last year’s
drop accounted for £10,007. and, though exes.
(£15,422) were cut £1579, the net result
(£15,831) shows a reduction of £8428. A
4 p.c. div. was paid, leaving £2355 for re-
serves, now £90,790. The average distribu-
tion over the past nine years has been
slightly more than 6 p.c.
The co.’s difficulties show up clearly in
balance-sheet figures :
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £336,900 £336,900 £336,900 £336,900
Liabilities .. 40,016 34,099 39,673 26,550
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. 215,649 243,665 265,933 265,669
Stocks .. 75,642 125,503 128,664 133,493
Debtors .. 34,824 22.011 30,182 20,633
Cash. . . . 143,182 81,055 50,337 47,921
Over the past five years £50,020 has been
added to the book-value of freeholds, plant.
(£265,669 at June 30 last), and additional
£57,851 of stocks have accumulated, making
them £133,493, while customers’ balances,
etc. (£20,633), have fallen £14,191, and cash,
etc. (£47,921), has been drawn off for
£95,261. The more or less liquid surplus
(£175,497. including stocks) was £5987
stronger than at the previous balance, and
shows a comfortable financial position.
The market doubts that there will be any-
thing worth while in the fertiliser business
for some time to come, and buyers offer only
11s. 6d. for this co.’s scrip. The backing
amounts to £1 ss. sd. in net tangibles, and
the return at 12s. is 7 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis.
The Exchange Position
The exchange position eased last week:
the banks felt the pressure of outside com-
petition less, and speculators who had bought
money in London at high rates were said to
be finding it difficult to unload. So long
as the movement was inevitably upward,
these speculators had a great time: to buy
at 125 and sell at 130 or more was very
easy money. But the moment the market
started to ease, the thought that a sudden
fall to 120 would wipe out all the profits
made speculators hesitate to buy at even
recent rates.
If the banks put their heads together and
reduced the rate a few points, there would
be a scatter among the speculators ; and the
nervous people who are wondering whether
they hadn’t better get their money out to some
safe place would probably decide to wait till
rates got lower—and then it is pretty certain
they wouldn’t do anything. In general it is
difficult to bring rates down. But the banks
have no accumulation of money in London
bought at high rates to get rid of; and that
would simplify a reduction. Once the pre-
mium starts to fall the movement down to
between 10 and 15 p.c. will probably be as
rapid as the rise was.
The “flight” panic, which was the cause
of the quick advance in rates, is finished
for the present, at any rate. Parlies did a
great deal towards ending it: that by-election
made it quite clear that the public would
not stand a policy of note inflation.
In the halt for reflection those who were
inclined to send their money away realised
that the insurance premium was very high.
To lose 30 p.c. of one’s principal was bad
enough; to face an investment market at
the other end in which short-call money is
worth about 2 p.c. was almost worse. And
taxation overseas is hardly lighter than our
own: the standard British rate of income
tax this year is 4s. 6d. in the £ and there
is a super-tax.
Placer Development has made a further
payment to the vendors in connection with
the Bulowat (New Guinea) area, and
arrangements have been made to hand over
the balance (£15,000) three months after
the dredge lias set in. Several fresh areas
adjoining Bulolo Gold Dredging’s property
have been pegged, and will be transferred
to Bulolo if testing proves them to be
worth while. The co. some time ago pur-
chased a gold dredge at Lewiston, Cali-
. fornia. This has been put in order and is
now working at a profit. • Capital outlay
has been less than expected and the outlook
is promising.
* * * *
Guinea Gold has secured an option over a
property in southern Queensland. When the
co. sold its N.G. holdings to New Guinea
Goldfields it made an attempt to locate new
deposits further inland, but was apparently
unsuccessful. The property is to be scout-
bored by R. J. Falconer, of Melbourne, and
if he likes the look of things the ground will
be thoroughly proved.
❖ sj: ❖ '
“Old Warden”: Papua is still interested
in the Tauri goldfield, which was discovered
in hill country to the west of the old Lake-
kamu some months ago. Parties are leaving
Port Moresby weekly, and a move is afoot
to send out a large and well equipped expedi-
tion in order to' thoroughly comb the new
country. The Government has consented to
subsidise the expedition £ for £ up to £250. A
good find like the Lakekamu would be a god-
send to Papua, which has been having a very
hard time of late.
❖ ❖ * *
“Iridium”: Osmiridium on the Adamsfield
(Tas.) is bought at £l5 an ounce, far less
than half its value when the boom was on.
Various parties are operating hereabouts
with hydraulic pressure and are about mak-
ing wages. A good deal of prospecting tor
osmiridium and gold is going on on the West
Coast, and a reported big find by H. Alar-
ridge and party at Whyte River is being
investigated. The osmiridium here is found
from specks to about the size of a grain of
wheat, and also in the serpentine rock.
% * * *
From London: In order to liquidate
existing indebtedness and to bring the Wiluna
goldmines to production, Wiluna Gold Cor-
poration has issued £300,000 seven-year
notes, being part of £350,000 created. The
notes bear interest at 10 p.c., and are re-
payable at a premium of 20 p.c. on Dec.
31, 1937, or before that date upon six
months’ previous notice. They are convert-
ible at the holder’s option into ordinary
shares at par until Dec. 31, 1935, or, if
repayable earlier, then until date of repayment.
The New Goldfield Gold Fields, Ltd., and
the Transvaal Agency—Wiluna’s backers in
the past—have agreed to underwrite this
issue at a commission of 5 p.c. and an over-
riding commission of 1J p.c. Wiluna’s direc-
tors’ latest report states that a number of
important modifications and general improve-
ments recommended by the technical advisers
have been incorporated in the haulage, power
and treatment plants. The effect of these
alterations will be to provide the most
modern form of reduction plant, to reduce
the costs of mining and treatment to a
minimum, and to permit the eventual ex-
pansion of output beyond the initial basis
of treatment of 40,000 tons of ore monthly.
A year ago ore reserves were estimated at
1,405,400 tons of 395. ore. Since then sub-
stantial additions have been made as a
result of development work.
* * * *
The two Associateds issued their annual
reports in London the other day. One,
Associated Gold Mines of W.A., which
operates at Kalgoorlie and has an interest
in Wiluna, showed a net profit of £4659
for year ended March 31 last, and after de-
ducting a debit of £lOB6 brought forward
from the previous 12 months, a credit of
£3573 remained to carry into the current
term. The co. is fairly well off as regards
liquid assets, and the premium and gold
bonus should give its mining operations a
good lift. The other Associated —Associated
Finance Co., Ltd.—was formed in 1925 to
acquire the Canadian assets of the old Asso-
ciated Co. (W.A.), now liquidate!!, and to
carry on as a mining and finance co. Its
main holdings are shares in the Vipond Con-
solidated, Ltd., Canada, and Associated
and Wiluna Gold Mines (W.A.). Last year’s
operations show a loss of £3847.
* # * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) last year
spent over £71,000 on the Ivanhoe, Horse-
shoe and Chaffers leases, and is scattering
cash on these properties freely this year.
Latest accounts show that, in addition to the
outlay on development, £20,000 was struck
off for depreciation; the credit balance
remaining after allowing for all charges was
£5446, which has been carried forward.
Ore reserves are estimated at over a million
tons of 31s. Bd. stone. The management
hopes to double the tonnage and increase the
grade by nearly Bs. a ton by the end of this
year as a result of rich ore opened up in
the Horseshoe and Chaffers leases.
❖ :J: i|e s$C
Austral Malay, which now has five sub-
sidiaries working in Malaya, has issued its
combined, annual report. Prospecting in the
F.M.S. and Siam was brought to an end by
the decision of both Governments to suspend
the issue of further mining leases for the
present. One Malayan property already
under lease to another interest is being
tested, and arrangements are being made for
the prospecting of some areas in Burma,
where the going is still open. Since the sub-
sidiaries are mostly off the dividend list,
no disbursements are being made by the
holding co. itself.
Kamunting, the oldest of the subsidiaries,
worked until the end of July, w T hen a two
months’ stoppage was made under the restric-
tion scheme. A 6d. dividend was paid during
the year, and the balance of profit set aside
to meet depreciation, etc. One dredge is
now hung up pending a rise in metal prices,
while the other is working out its grbund,
which is nearly finished. The 1931 dividend
outlook is gloomy. Asam Kumbang, also shut
dowm for a couple of months, has been return-
ing a small though steady profit. Two-shillings
was paid in dividends during the year, and
it is possible that 1931 will also see a hand-
out on a small scale. Ulu Yam closed down on
July 31, and wmrk was not resumed when
the two months’ spell was over. No dividend
w r as paid. Thabawleik, a Burmese show, also
v'ent into retirement about the middle of the
year, and during the stoppage the dredge will
be improved and its digging capacity in-
creased. Puchong, one of the two newer
offshoots, showed working profits for the year,
but these were applied in paying off the
cost of the dredge, etc. Profit made during
1931 will be devoted to the same purposes.
Pungali, which began digging a year ago,
also returned a profit from its two dredges.
Here again the proceeds have been utilised
in reducing preliminary and capital expendi-
ture.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the difference betiveen “free” and
“ pegged” exchange? What briefly is the
case for each, its strength and its weakness?
—1560.
“Free” exchange means that the premium
is whatever someone will pay. In a sense,
exchange has with us always been free,
because only the banks and one or two others
have agreed to a rate. Recently, the general
manager of the Bank of N. S. Wales, believ-
ing that a much freer movement was neces-
sary to right the exchange position, broke
away from the other banks and lifted the
rate much higher. The theory was that a
high rate would restrict the flight of capital
and, incidentally, advantage the primary pro-
ducer-for-export, while further restricting
imports to the advantage of the secondary
industry. The disadvantages, as Tiie Bul-
letin saw them, were: (1) That this com-
munity paid the whole of the premium, the
premium being thus really a bonus on
exports; (2) that it was very doubtful
whether the producer got the full benefit of
the bonus, wherefore if a bonus to the pro-
ducer was advisable it -would be far better
to pay it direct to him; (3) that while the
premium restricted imports and was to that
extent a benefit to the secondary industries,
it fell also upon necessary raw materials of
certain secondary industries, wherefore it
would be better, if further assistance was
wanted by those industries, to increase the
Customs tariff; and (4) that, in consequence
of Australia’s great external debt, the pre-
mium meant a further heavy addition to
taxes in order to get the interest to London,
making it thus more difficult to balance
budgets and so obtain necessary loan accom-
modation abroad. Further, when exchange
is “free” and a flight of capital is in progress,
the panic-stricken demand of one person is
liable to fix a rate at a figure higher than
all the circumstances warrant, and a rapidly
rising rate increases the panic. Under ordi-
nary conditions The Bulletin is of opinion
that a “free” exchange is desirable; under
extraordinary conditions that it is not desir-
able.
If I send £lOO to London and pay £3O
exchange —(l) Who pockets the £3of (2)
What is it tided for? (3) H0w?— 1555.
First, you can’t “send £lOO to London”
unless you’ve got gold. That is the one thing
in which one country can pay another
country. And if you had gold you couldn’t
send it at present unless it was new gold ;
export has been prohibited except under cer-
tain conditions —all the gold we’ve got is
needed for national purposes. Well, not
having the gold to send, you must, find some-
body who has got or will get it in London.
The competition for that gold causes the
premium on exchange: the more people that
want gold in London and the keener their
demand for it the higher the premium.
Generally you don’t have to go to London
to find the gold; you can discover someone
in Australia who has it. People with gold
ip London sell it (or the right to it) to an
Australian bank ait what is called the buying
rate; the man who wants gold in London
goes to a bank and buys the right to it at
what is called the selling rate. The man who
sold the right pockets the premium; the
bank pockets the difference between the buy-
ing and the selling rate —usually about
7s. Gd. per cent. The Australian who- sells the
right to gold in London is almost always an
exporter of some sort —of wool, metals, hides,
wheat, etc. He pockets the premium; but
in theory at any rate he gives the producer
the benefit of it when he is quoting for the
goods intended for export. Thus it is alleged
that the Australian wheat-farmer is to-day
getting 30 per cent, more than he would if
there were no exchange premium. It is
always doubtful, however, whether the pro-
ducer gets anything like the full benefit.
If he doesn’t, the-exporter or some other
middleman does. The point of most import-
ance is that the buyer of the goods at the
other end does not pay a farthing of it; so
that whoever gets more at this end gets it at
the expense of the Australian community.
As the component parts of the Empire
make a family group; is it possible to have
an Empire currency so that a £-note issued
here would carry 20s. value in Canada, Lon-
don or Capetown? If'not, why not? —1538.
We have a coin, the sovereign, which is
current in practically every part of the
Empire; but because of our misbehavior it
is cut of use in Australia. The Empire
could have one currency, but it would flow
out of a Dominion which, say, couldn’t pay
its overseas debts wdth its exports, just as
the sovereign would flow out of Australia
if its export was not prohibited.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Farmer; In March “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly.”
. ...R.A.8.: There are such great risks outside that
you’d better leave it where it is... .R.D.D.: If it
comes at all (which w T e doubt), it won’t come
quickly, and .the short-term depositor should have
time to recover... .T.T.T.: Composition is much
more likely than rank inflation. .. . P. 8.: (1) You
can’t send away by money-order more than £2O a
week. (2) To Britain it will cost you 6s. 4d. per
£ or part thereof ; the rates are constantly varying.
(3) You would have no difficulty in having £lOO
paid-out in Australia in return for £77 paid-in
in Glasgow. (4) Yes A.D.: Presume you mean
Central Australian Gold Exploration Syndicate.
-Address Box 3419 R, G.P.0., Sydney.... .J.H.C.: For
full description of Murdoch copper-extraction pro-
cess, see “Chemical Engineering and Mining Review,’’
June 5, 1930; or ask F. M. Murdoch, care Clon-
curry Copper, Ltd., National Mutual Buildings,
Brisbane... .A.11.R.G.: Purchase of silver is not
regulated. Terms vary according to quantity, fine-
ness and delivery; write Frank Hambridge, 22
Bridge-street, Sydney... .H. 0.: Well, it always was
a pretty desperate gamble, and is still... .E.D.8.:
Sorry we can’t, and don’t know where to get any
worth-while opinion. Underwriting means nothing
unless you know the terms.... XYZ: (1) Pros-
pectus of Pacific Forests predicted- divs. in 1940.
(2) Not listed; may be when full nominal capital
( £500,000) is subscribed. Shares issued 7/10/’3O
were 248,087, so early listing is unlikely... .P.L.K.:
(1) and (2) Bank of England is not an ordinary
trading bank; it is in a class by itself. It is the
British Government’s banker; issues notes legal
tender in England and Wales; is the banker of
other banks. (3) The “big five” are amalgamations:
London Joint Stock and Midlands; Barclay’s;
London County Westminster and Parr’s; National
Provincial and Union; Lloyd’s. .. .A.8.C.M.: It is a
struggling office, and may or may not pull through.
... .D.LI.McD.: (1) There is an action pending
against this and associated cos. for misrepresenta-
tion. (2) A speculation ; see “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,”
December, 1930... .N.S.W.: Don’t... .W.H.R.: Not
listed. Divs. a long way off. See B. 29/10/’-30....
W.T.W.: (d) See B. 4/9/’3O. (e) All in that group
are gambles... .G.D.: If the money is simply paid
in to the Agent-Gen. for payment in Australia, you
are entitled to get about £l3O here for every £lOO
lodged there G.J.W.: Position too obscure to
justify further investment, especially in the bank
stock. .. .Lang Lang: It doesn’t come from the
sandstone, but from an overlying deposit, now
mostly gone. Same in the Otway Ranges.


New body styles for FORD Light deliveries
.... adding new smartness to proved speed and stamina
k i
a»i
The New Ford Wire-side Van with enclosed cab
.... and as for Performance—
read this tribute from Glen Kidston,
famous British racing driver ....
Lieut-Commander Glen
Kidston , millionaire British
sportsman, far-famed driver
of racing Bentleys on many
European tracks , winner of
the 1930 Le Mans Grand
Prix and Rudge Whitworth
Cup, chose Ford Light De-
liveries for a strenuous tour
through East African jungle
country this year. Read his
enthusiastic letter reproduced
at right
NAIROBI MOTORS LTD „ NAIROBI
Dear Sirs,
Having just completed my safari*, I feel I must tell
you of the wonderful behaviour of the four FORD
Light Deliveries which I purchased from you last
year. I motored almost 4,000 miles over Kenya,
Tanganyika and Uganda on safari and I thought I
had a pretty good idea of what a car could do.
Frankly, however, I have been astonished by the
remarkable and unfailing performance these four
little cars have put up. Loaded right up (if not more
often grossly overloaded on account of cars of
another make being bogged and their loads having
been transferred) these cars have been driven
through incredible places, suffering the most violent
joltings without a murmur. The Narok Kilamafeza
road has regularly been reported as "impassable”
for almost the past two months, yet these cars have
managed to get through, passing other cars bogged,
stuck in rivers and in many cases giving them a
helping hand.
I have driven cars in Canada, Australia, New Zea-
land, China, etc., am acquainted with the gruelling
they are generally put to, and know what they can
do, but the performance of these four little cars has
been a revelation, and I want nothing better.
Yours faithfully, (Sgd.) GLEN KIDSTON
*Safari is a native term for a hunting trip into the interior
of Africa.
Drive a Ford and Bank the Savings
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
LTD.
Seven body styles
meet every half-
ton haulage need
The New Ford Special
Light Delivery
The New Ford Closed
Delivery
The New Ford Well-Type
Light Delivery
The New Ford Light Panel
Van with enclosed cab
The New Ford Dropside
Light Delivery
The New Ford Standard
Light Delivery
ďc
Geelong . . . Sydney . . . Brisbane
Adelaide . . . Perth
N.C. 36/B


THIS YEAR.
If ever it was necessary for the man of limited means to conserve carefully and to spend wisely,
it is now. In most cases incomes are lower, and in many outgoing is greater, and consequently
reduced margins must be provided for.
True Thrift is not only the hoarding of money—it is just as much a matter of careful, useful
spending, but obviously the saving must come first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account and use it faithfully. It costs nothing, but will help
you to help yourself.
fcmealtl) Savings Jank of Busiralia
o Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Lilac Time”
Criterion “On the Spot”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Sons o’ Guns”
Comedy “The First Mrs. Fraser”
Tivoli “The Film Girl”
State ’ Movies and Talkies
«
“ON THE SPOT.”
Act IV.
Scene: Hell. Temperature, 150°.
(For some inexplicable reason this act is
not included in the Edgar Wallace play in
which Frank Harvey, as Tony Perelli, and
Campbell Copelin, as Detective-Inspector
Kelly, are now packing the Criterion Theatre,
Sydney. Their version ends with the arrest
of Tony by Kelly on a charge of having
murdered Minn Lee, Tony’s mistress, who
had really committed suicide.)
[When the asbestos curtain rises, Tony
Perelli is discovered playing Wagner on a
barrel-organ in the corner of Furnace If.
Minn Lee is lying seductively beside him on
a red-hot grill. After about seventeen turns
of the handle, Tony cdoses playing and
strides up and down the sizzling hobs.]
Tony : Bah ! Vogner ! I ’ate ’im like ’ell!
As well they ask me play a Wurlitzer.
Minn Lee: Whaffor my Ton-y look ang-ly?
Mo pin ki ti?
Tony : Spik Eenglish ! You get da goat. “Mo
pin ki ti.” Where you learn that, eh?
Minn Lee : Uni-ver-sity of Col-um-bia.
Tony : Ah, I forget, swee’eart. Ah, my
lovely Minn Lee! Swell gal, eh? I
buy you clothes make those ’Ollywood
“Nick ’e look in an’ grin. ’E say ‘Swell!’”
dames look like ’ired ’elps. Don’t notice
me. I worry too much vit’ beezness.
That dam’ fool Nick ’e iron all my 200
silk shirts wrong way up. Pah! ’E’s
laundry up da putt! Bymby I put ’im
on da spot maybe. You wait.
Minn Lee: Mees-ter Kel-ly put Ton-y Per-
elli on the spot, is it not so? Mees-ter
Kel-ly find Minn Lee’s blood on Ton-y
Per-elli’s fin-gers and swear he done it,
is it not so?
Tony : Pah ! Dirty swine cop ! ’E swear
Tony Perelli kill Minn Lee. I say. “She
kill ’erself.” ’E burn da confesh. ’E
’an’cuff me. ’E say. “You kill twenty
men, Tony Perelli. Now you goin’ to die
fbr one woman you not kill. Ain’t that
funny?” That’s what ’e say. Dirty swine
cop.
Minn Lee: An’ they ne-ver hang a man in
Chic-ago un-less he kill a wo-man. Mees-
ter Ivel-ly say, “Our jur-ies may be yal-
ler, but, by Gahd, they’re sen-ti-ment-al.”
Tony: Oh, go to ’Ell!
Minn Lee : But is Minn Lee not there
al-ready, Ton-y Per-elLi?
Tony (pinching her cheek) : That ’urt, eh?
Minn Lee : You know it hurt.
Tony: Well, go to ’Ell. Get out of ’ere.
You ’ear me? Tony Perelli expect visi-
tors.
[Minn Lee, holding her hands like an
Egyptian Buddha with a touch of colic, goes
off through the swing oven doors (Left), on
which hand been painted beer-mugs and
other scenes from German opera. The entire
furnace walls are similarly decorated, and
through ornate, fretwork gates at the back
an excellent view can be had of the rest of
Hell. In Furnace 7 Mike Feeney is playing
Con O’Hara ludo. Detective-Inspector Kelly,
between running the cutter for them and
flirting with Mrs. O’Hara, is talking to them
about their mothers. Both Mike and Con
become enveloped in steam rising from where
their tears have splashed on the hobs. Tony,
after looking at them, shrugs his shoulders,
turns his back on them and returns to grind-
ing the orgttn. He is playing Wagner again
when the oven doors (Right) open and
Edgar Wallace enters, a little hurriedly.]
Edgar (throwing a look over his shoulder
and thrusting out a tongue worn to the
thickness of an arrow-point with dictat-
“Meester Kelly come in an’ an’cuff ’im.”
ing) : Garn ! Go home! Yer old man’s
a Zulu, and yer cat’s got kittens!
Tony : Oh, I say, Meester Wallace! ’Ow
could you? That little devil ’e get your
goat, eh?
Edgar : You ! Go an’ dip your eye in dirt,
y’ lousy wop !
Tony: Wop, eh? Nic-a word, wop! You
not make me da wop, eh? You not say
to your typist Number B 76051, you not
say to ’er, “Leava off where you up to
in Chapter 39 of da serial. We now
write da play. We have Tony Perelli,
eh? Not New York. No: America,
Chicago. ’E run da gang, with Angelo
for ’is right-’and man. ’E maka money.
Bootleg.” You say tliees, eh, Meester
Wallace ?
Edgak : Oh, stow it! You talk too much.
Give us a tune.
Tony :Me ! Me, Tony Perelli! I talk too
much, eh? Is eet not you say to thees
typist, “Maka ’im talk. Maka ’im ’ate
German opera”—so ’e come down ’ere
to ’Ell and play eet on da barrel-organ,
eh? Pah! ’Ow I ’ate that Vogner. You
not do thees, eh, Meester Wallace? You
not say, “We make ’im ’ave millions
money. ’E buy Supreme Court Judges.
’E square juries. ’E square nearly all
da cops except Meester Kelly. ’E ’ave
200 silk shirts. ’E like swell women.
’E keep three houses of ill-famous in
Cicero. When ’e fineesh with swell
woman ’e send ’er to Cicero. ’E not
send Minn Lee. No. Tony Perelli just
engage da college-boy gunman. Minn Lee
take him into ’er room. Lock da door.
Then Tony Perelli put da college boy on
da spot. Minn Lee ’appy. She stick
knife in ’er chest. Tony Perelli ’e get
da blood on ’ees fingers. Meester Kelly
come in an’ ’an’cuff ’im. Tony Perelli
get put on da spot. Put into ’ot chair.”
You not say that to your swell typist,
eh, Meester Wallace?
Edgak : For the love of Mike, shut up!
Tony : Da love of Mike? No. I not love
Mike. You say to da typist, “We ’ave
also Mike Feeney. ’E lead other gang.
Da gangs get one another. Put them on
da .spot.” Pah! You do eet all, Meester
Wallace. An’ so me, Tony Perelli, I
play da bum German music ’ere in ’Ell.
Edgar : All right. All right. I wrote the
damn play. It made the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” critic see green. He can go
to Hell.
Tony: ’E not ’ere already?
“Mike Feeney is playing Con. O’Hara ludo.”
Edgak: Of course he’s not. He’s been com-
missioned to criticise the Last Trump.
Play us a tune, Tony, that’s a good
fellow.
Tony : Play da tune, eh ? Yes, in da play
you geev me da swell church organ. I
play da lovely Italian music. On da
poster they say, “Frank ’Arvey as Tony
Perelli. Musician. Voluptuary. He
took men, and when ’e ’ ad done with
them ’e put them On Da Spot.” Very
nice. ’Ere in ’EIl —what? I play da
vile Vogner on da barrel-organ. Da Nick
’e look in an’ grin. He say, “Swell!”
Eet remind ’im of da Wurlitzer at da
Prince Edward. Pah !.... Never mind.
I play.
[Tony returns to grinding the barrel-
organ. Suddenly the oven doors (Right)
swing open. Three figures hurtle through.
Tony stops playing and minces across, smil-
ing and rubbing his hands. ]
Tony: Look who’s ’ere, Meester Wallace.
Tony Perelli ’e wait patiently for arrival
of your Majesty. Your dam’ laundry
spoil da 200 silk shirts, eh? Now I put
you on da spot.
Nick ( extricating himself from the heap and
standing upright) : Don’t get your hair
in a knot, lad. I’ve been put there.
Tony: Who did that? And these other
gentlemen, who ees’ im?
Nick : Here, you two down there. Let me
introduce my old friends, Mr. Tony
Perelli and Mr. Edgar Wallace. These
two gentlemen—l have forgotten their
names for the moment —were until re-
cently very highly placed in a great demo-
cracy. Then they got put on the spot.
And then the cove that put them had
me put on the spot, just to keep his
hand in.... Let me see, what’s your
names again?
Tony : Never mind da names. .Wliat name
ees ’im who put them on da spot? What
’is name, eh?
Nick : Theodore.
[As the asbestos curtain falls Mr. Fenton
and Mr. Lyons rise and thoughtfully feel
the seat of their mints.]
* #
As present writer suspected it might,
“Topsy Turv-y,” the Ernest C. Rolls revue
“Like an Egyptian
Buddha with a
touch of colic.”
at Sydney St. James,
has shaken down into
a good entertainer.
The first performance
was one Of the most
weird and wonderful
this Showman had
seen. On the day be-
fore it the leading
comedian dropped out.
and rehearsals carried
on for .most of the
night failed to adjust
matters. When the
show came on per-
formers did their bit
before a butter-mus-
lin curtain, through
which an A 1 view
could be had of the
shifters in action.
John Priora's violin
accompanist arrived
late and nodded an
apology. “That’s all
right,” said John
clearly, and broke into
opera. The sound of
hammering was loud
in the land; and so
it went on. However,
it did not take the
party long to" settle
down, and on latest
inspection the show is
not at all a. bad
couple of bobs’ worth. On Friday Rolls is
putting on a midnight performance, with
the assistance of leading artists from the
other theatres, to help the Lord Mayor’s
fund in aid of the Maoriland trouble.
* * *
On Saturday Nat Phillips added June
Mills and a couple of others to his serial
revue show at Sydney Opera House. The
latest title is “Showers of Fun,” a light,
bright little effort to put the wind up
General de Presh.
* * *
“Lilac Time” is going well in its limited
season at Sydney Majesty’s. It will bo re-
placed in a week or so by “Dearest’Enemy,”
a musical romance with an American War
of Independence setting and with Dorothy
Brunton in the role of Betsy, a little Irish
gurrl with a heart of gold.
* ¥ *
Duncan Macdougall will present another
first-in-Australia at the Playbox on Satur-
day week. The piece is Schnitzler’s
“Viennese Nights.”
At the Community Carrie Tennant has
split her group into three sections, one to
give plays by Restoration dramatists, another
to deal with Ibsen and Shaw, and the third
to put on plays by Australians.
¥ * *
At moment of writing the last had not
been heard of “The First Mrs. Fraser,” who
is in her eighth week at Melb. Comedy and
as fresh as the day she first painted; and
“Sons o’ Guns” is being well patronised at
the Royal. The advantage of cutting one’s
suit to the size of one’s cloth is being
brought home to the Firm, which is having
the unique satisfaction of seeing all its
sijmWs running to good houses. If fire had
not put His Majesty’s and the King’s out of
commission, they might have been losing
“Angelo, ’is right-
and man.”
money at all four
places. The success of
the Comedy show is a
tribute to an all-round
good cast, and especi-
ally to the artistry of
Ethel Morrison and
the deep sincerity of
J. B. Rowe.
According to the
Firm’s publicity, the
cast of “Sons o’ Guns”
includes two champion
walkers, several cham-
pion swimmers, tennis-
players, golfers, moun-
tain climbers, cricket-
ers, boxers and at least
one champion high
diver. Perhaps this
explains why there are
so many unemployed
actors.
* * *
“The House that
Jack Built,” at Adel-
aide Royal, is a jolly
show, with plenty of
rude (in both senses)
fun that really appeals
to children. Mechanical effects and danc-
ing are the other strong points. Jim
Gerald, Phil Smith and Roy Rene are the
fun-makers, and anything goes in that can get
a laugh, even—incredibly—an allusion to
Horseferry-road. Any connecting story re
Jack’s House is nearly negligible; but what
does that matter?
Gladys Moncrieff, appearing in Adelaide
before the screen at West’s, got a really
rapturous reception that seemed to astonish
even her usual calm.
* * #
The chap on whose judgment this Show-
man bases his rare visits to the talkies over-
flowed with enthusiasm for “Animal Crack-
ers” the morning after its release. “Don’t
miss it,” he said. “And you’d better go
along lively. It can’t possibly last. It’s
good.” Both judgment and forecast proved
sound.
* * ¥
“O.”: The Slavonic violinist Zlatko Balo-
kovic, who is said to have aqiazed Europe
with his playing, has been booked by the
Taits for 40 concerts here and in Maoriland.
He and his wife will come from America in
their private craft.
* * *
“C. Ma” : An interesting item in British
International Pictures’ 1981 programme is
“The Happy Husband,” by old Bulletin
contributor Harrison Owen. Owen’s spark-
ling comedy failed to reach this country per
the fleshanblood stage, although it w/ts a
success of the season in both London and
N’York.
* # *
“Stephen Sink” : If actors didn’t hide their
real identities there would be 36 letters in the
name opposite the part of Tony Perelli in
“On the Spot,” at Sydney Criterion. Frank
Harvey bears all his father’s Christian
names. The old man when he first went on
the stage was asked by the manager what
he wmnted on the programme. “My real
name, of course,” he said—“ Jean Francois
Marie de Soissons de Latanac.” The
manager gulped, glared, put stubby pencil
to lips, then solemnly wrote “Frank Harvey.”
The name stuck.
The Palette.
“M.G.S.”: Randall Davies, the Felton
Bequest’s new London buyer, is visiting Mel-
bourne to consult with his employers. 'With
him comes the news of the purchase for
£175 of “Widowed,” a picture by Frank
Holl. If this is Mr. Davies’s first achieve-
ment on behalf of the Bequest there is cause
for nothing but the blackest pessimism over
the future of that munificent benefaction,
which now lias £lOO,OOO of accumulated sur-
plus. Holl was born in 1845, died in 1888
and was forgotten by 1890, except by a few
ruminant spinster ladies. He was never of
sufficient importance even to merit a blast
from James McNeill Whistler. He painted
“Ordered to the Front,” depicting soldiers
marching to the wharf with their weeping
wives and children clinging to them; “Neces-
sity Knows no Law,” in which a poor
woman with a child clasped in her arms is
entering a pawmshop to borrow money on
her wedding ring, and other tearful sub-
jects. There is sufficient moisture in his
pictures to equip Bourke with a drought-
proof water supply. He poured out canvas
after canvas, his A 1 Jolson sentimentality
earning him enormous prices. He was in
no sense of the term an artist. He was
simply an indifferent cartoonist who gave his
works a fictitious importance by executing
them in oils on large pieces of canvas. It
is to be hoped that Mr. Davies gets into the
right hands in Melbourne. It is possible that
he has underrated our intelligence.


CONTROLLED INFLATION.
“Mr. Theodore has got into touch in Melbourne with that small group of professors and other economists who approve of 'controlled’ inflation.”
THE PROFESSOR: “No, boys, don’t touch it. We’re trying to pass a law to make every piece of water-melon 1.567 times bigger on Saturdays and holidays and
1.495 times bigger on week-days; so you just better wait.”
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Interest Rates
Dear Bulletin, —Several correspondents
have urged that lending institutions such as
the A.M.P. should reduce the rates of in-
terest charged on loans, not only to private
borrowers but to the Federal and State Gov-
ernments. Lending institutions are endea-
voring to carry men on the land through
the present troublous times. Payment of
interest is frequently deferred, and in some
cases, when warranted, absolutely foregone,
to enable deserving borrowers to remain in
possession of their properties. But it is
difficult to see why interest on Government
loans should be reduced.
The rates of interest paid by the Govern-
ments are what they are largely because of
the existing, and probably increasing, rate
of taxation. For instance, the life assurance
offices this year pay 2s. 10d. in the £ on the
interest arising from Federal loans, reducing
a gross rate of 5f per cent, to a net return
of £4 18s. 9d. per cent., or a gross rate of
£6 to a net £5 3s. per cent. On the interest
arising from loans on mortgage they have
to pay both State and Commonwealth income
tax amounting in the aggregate to 4s. lOd.
in the £, reducing 6 per cent, gross to £4
11s. per cent. net. This is to a great extent
why rates of interest in Australia are so
high. If Government loans were issued free
of tax they could probably in normal times
be floated at not more than 44 per cent, be-
cause what a great many lenders seek is an
assured income over a definite period. The
saving in interest between 44 per cent, and
what has now to be paid would far more than
outweigh the income tax collected. Unfortu-
nately, however, politics and not business
dominates the position.
Another aspect of the matter is this; as
borrower and taxing authority, the Govern-
ment practically fixes and varies the interest
rate as it likes, and the fear is not un-
natural that in regard to t<he higher incomes
the interest on Government loans may,
through the effects of taxation at some time
or other, be completely confiscated.—Yours
etc., J. W.
The Farmer’s Debts
Dear Bulletin, — The farmers —of Vic-
toria, at any rate —do not want to repudiate
their debts, but the burden of interest makes
the position hopeless for them. What we
require is a Farm Relief Bill to protect us
from banks and other mortgagees, also
against machinery firms which, although
they have hire-purchase agreements, insist
upon having the amounts due to them paid.
In _ one case with which I am well
acquainted a farmer with 960 acres had an
overdraft of £3OO, guaranteed by a friend.
Before the farmer could harvest his crop lie
was advised that he would get nothing
further from the bank, and the guarantor
received a peremptory demand for repay-
ment within seven days, with interest at
8 per cent.; if same was not paid the matter
would be placed in the hands of their soli-
citor, etc., etc. The guarantor, who was
depending on the proceeds of his own crop,
was obliged to find the money. The farmer
had put in 400 acres of crop by himself, had
put fallow on the property for next year, and
had kept his store account down to £6O. He
got heavy rains just before harvest, and the
crop, which normally would have yielded
2700 to 2800 bags, stripped only 600 bags,
and the grain will almost certainly be
“docked.”
Surely a farmer and a guarantor in cir-
qumstances like these should be afforded
relief. —Yours faithfully, Farmer.
Farmers’ Loans
Dear Bulletin,— “F.A.Q.” (B. 7/l/’3l)
apparently, like a lot more, is one
of the “producing” class simply through
circumstance, fitness for the task and per-
sonal choice not having had anything to
do with it. Consequently he finds himself a
debtor of the bank he maligns. Had he taken
an intelligent interest in the business he
would have realised long ago that high prices
for wheat and wool would not continue, and
he would have made provision against the
reaction instead of buying his motor-car
and tractor and other expensive luxuries.
Those producers who are a genuine asset
to the country have run the farms in a
capable manner, and are not worrying about
overdrafts. They have used their own labor
and brains in the improvement of their hold-
ings, instead of squandering the profits of
good years on non-productive purchases.
Yes, the “F.A.Q.’s” of the community are
the recipients of much misdirected sympathy.
Does “F.A.Q.” blame the banks for the
fact that he and his ilk refused to sell last
year’s wheat at 4s. lid., preferring to accept
an advance of 4s. in the gamble for rising
prices on a falling market? A lot of the
present-day trouble can be laid at the door
of “F.A.Q’s.” who gambled in wheat and
wool, and in their land hungriness bought
out their discerning neighbors at ridiculous
prices.—Yours feelingly, I. Byte,
Our Wool Problem
Dear B., —Isn’t there anyone in Australia
big enough to tackle the wool problem? The
woolgrower, who must employ outside labor
for shearing, which mops up 25 to 30 per
cent, of his gross proceeds, is in a worse
plight than the wheatgrower, who can man-
age somehow without labor. There is no-
thing to prevent the average for wool falling
to 6d. or even less; and this inability of
the market to stabilise itself has got - the
wind up buyers. I have been growing wool
for nearly half a century, and with the excep-
tion of the 1900-01 season cannot remember
prices being so low; and taking costs into
account those values were infinitely better.
Why not bring back John Higgins and re-
institute a scheme of marketing wool on
the line of the Imperial Purchase scheme,
which superseded auction sales in 1916 and
continued for 31 years, during which it
handled without a hitch over 7,000,00 Q bales
valued at £170,000,000, not to mention by-
products such as sheepskins, etc.? A “table
of limits” was drafted, the clip was divided
up into 84S distinct types, a price being fixed
for each in relation to the general average.
Under a scheme of this kind every grower
would know what his proceeds would be,
buyers could operate without risk of cut-
throat competition,, and manufacturers could
make their plans well ahead without fear
of fluctuations in values. Finance could be
arranged, as now, through brokers, whose
businesses would not be interfered with in
any way.
From advices I have received, both M.L.
and S. Africa would be willing to join up
in any scheme that would stabilise values to
give growers a reasonable return. —Yours
etc., Valerin.
Let Us Have Action
Dear Bulletin, — If there is anyone in
Australia who does not by now understand
the basic causes of our economic ills, lie must
be singularly lacking in intelligence For
over a year we have been fed on facts relat-
ing to the heavy fall in the price of wool
■vheat and other primary produce, with
resultant diminution of natural income; the
trouble accentuated by our lack of credit
in London, which prevents us from continu-
ing our hectic course of borrowing. We
know that we are now receiving annually
at least one hundred million pounds less than
in the palmy days between 1921 and 1928.
That being so, the time .seems ripe to do
something constructive by way of repairing
the breach. But this can never happen
while we continue to mix politics with eco-
nomics. We should take the matter out of
the _ hands of the politicians altogether by
calling a conference of representative econo-
mists, bankers and business men of the type
of Henry Braddon, to devise means of
overcoming our economic ills. Politicians
should be rigidly excluded. The holding of
such a conference would form and solidify
public opinion, and the country, once started
on the path of regeneration, would progress
rapidly to recovery. A fortnight should be
enough for its deliberations. '
The Parkes election has indicated chat
the people are dissatisfied with talk, so let
us have action.—Yours, W. O. C. Day. ,
Our Overseas Creditors
Dear Bulletin,— ln the matter of our
financial relations with the Ma Country
suppose we get down to business. It is a
common thing to say that Australia isn’t
really to blame because Britain shouldn't
have stopped lending to us so suddenly as
it did. It ought rather have given notice,
and tapered off in a gradual fashion. Bat
as a fact Britain never lent us anything
except a comparatively small sum in the
war-time, though private individuals in
England, Wales, Scotland and Ireland lent
us a great deal both before and after that
event. It may be said that the persons who
had lent us money should lend us more if
they are still alive, or that those who hadn't
lent us money should start doing so if they'
have the funds about them; but these doings
weren’t in tlie_ bargain. There is a total
lack of any definite individual at whom it is
possible to throw the dead cow of reproach for
failing us in our hour of need, though a
letter of complaint might be addressed on
chance to “Smith, England.” People who
had faith in us have lost a lot of their capi-
tal, stocks which they bought at £lOO being
in some cases saleable below £SO, and that
leads to anxiety and caution.
If the Commonwealth Government wants
to explain that it will be better for Britain
to lend some more millions on easy terms
than to face a serious risk of losing the many
millions it has lent already, there is no one
to whom it can put the case except the
Macdonald Government. That is a definite
entity, while the aggregate existing creditor
(“Mr. Smith, England”) is not. Possibly
our newly-recovered Theodore might be sent
to London to talk to Public Cashier Snowden
about the matter, though Snowden is almost
as stonebroke as Theodore, in addition to
having a nasty temper—a fiend of a temper,
some people say.—Yours, etc., Sol Mala-
PROp.
Simplified Practice
Dear B., —I can’t see any sense in this
inflation business. Why can’t the Govern-
ment pass a law that all debts be cancelled
on March 1? Of course, we would soon be
in trouble again, but every few years we
could do the same thing. No doubt we
should have to let the blow fall on the thrifty
chap at irregular intervals; otherwise w'e
might not be able to catch him. For I sup-
pose the fool would object.—Yours disgust-
edly, Broke.
A Business Man’s Programme
Dear Bulletin, —The forces opposed to
inflation, repudiation and discrediting of Aus-
tralia generally are of the opinion that the
time has come for a bold policy.
It seems hopeless to expect such from
the political parties in existence, as the
leaders cannot break away from the belief
that it is necessary to place palatable fare
cnly before the electors.
It is quite possible that a double dis-
solution will result from the present financial
crisis, so I concisely state what I think is
wanted :
(1) Reduction of Members in both Senate and
House of Representatives by 50 per cent.
(2) Abolition of all State Parliaments and sub-
stituting State Councils of greatly reduced numbers.
(3) Abolition of State Governors and all positions
connected herewith.
(4) Parliamentary responsibility for all legislation
and cessation of commissions.
(5) Ministers to consist of best men available,
whether in or out of Parliament, and to be appointed
for full term of Parliament.
(6) Prohibition of oversea borrowing for any
purpose other than renewals of maturing loans.
(7) Repeat of all legislation restricting private
enterprise.
(8) Repeal of preference to unionists or any other
organisation.
(9) Disposal of all State enterprises.
(10) Failing ability to sell railways and tram-
ways on satisfactory terms, placing same under
control of responsible boards free from political
influence or control.
(11) Revision of Customs tariff so as to afford
full protection to industries having possibility of
success only; revenue tariff only to apply to all
other imports.
(12) Prevention of proved dumping by prohibition
of import.
(13) Abolition of all bounties, and protection of
industries through Customs only.
(14) Encouragement of trade within the Empire
by granting of preference on reciprocal basis.
(15) Deportation of all aliens preaching revo-
lution, socialism and such like doctrines.
J. A. Carpenter.
Just a Dream
Dear Bulletin, —The other night I had
a dream that set me thinking. I was a
delegate to a meeting of about a hundred
men and women. We sat round a most
enormous table in a room overlooking Syd-
ney Harbor. The chairman, a fine-looking old
chap, said: “We meet here to-day not as
members of political parties, not as members
of religious sects, not as rich or poor, capi-
talists or employees, but as Australians. Bet
us shed our prejudices, but not our honest
beliefs ; let us take counsel together as wisely
and sincerely as we can for the good of our
country. Parliaments and other powers are
gone. Upon our shoulders is the burden.”
There followed a debate, the details of which
1 cannot remember, but every industry and
good interest was represented, and all dele-
gates spoke concisely and to the point. Our
only test of such courses of action as were
proposed was, as I recollect it: “Is it right,
is it just, is it expedient?” In two hours
we had found a solution for every problem,
hnd, by the time we had finished, an arch-
bishop and a Communist had discovered that
they were kindred spirits, and a banker and
a union boss found themselves in entire
agreement on a particularly knotty point.
There were no lawyers present, and only
one professor of political economy, who
admitted quite candidly that there were
quite a lot of things he didn’t know. A
nicer lot of people I never met, and I was
quite sorry when I woke up.—Yours etc.,
Dingo.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Station
200 Rooms - 200 Baths
ft -I
m 0 f l * »?!* If
illlil J> 5!!!
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Tariff.
Single Room and Meals . •
Double Room and Meals ..
Single Room and Breakfast
Double Room and Breakfast
Day. Week.
25/- 168/-
45/- 300/-
15/- 100/-
27/6 182/6
Telephone: F 4141.
TRAVELLERS TO EUROPE !
VISIT THE
PARIS
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
FAIR
MAY 9 to 25, 1931.
Thirty foreign countries combine in providing a comprehensive
exhibition of all branches of manufacture and production.
Special travel facilities by rail and air offered to buyers.
Full 'particulars from
THE FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
ELEGANCE AND LUXURY.
Every bedroom is fitted with hot and cold
water, central heating and telephone. Many
bedrooms with private bathrooms and elegant
suites. The Restaurant serves the finest of
foods and wines. The lounges are spacious
and luxurious. Bedrooms from 10/6.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to
“The Bulletin,” Sydney.
NORFOLK ST., STRAND
ABORIGINALITIES
“Belfast”: Coincidences? I was tramping
along miles and miles from Lordknowswhere,
with nothing but desolation all around and
little else but sins on my back, when a scrap
of paper whirled along and blew against my
leg. Paper had been scarce for days, so I
stooped and picked it. up. Back at the last
camp another traveller and I had dug over
old ground and wondered what had become of
this and that—men we had known and
ALL SQUARE.
Jones: “I'm awfully sorry, old chap, that my pigeons flew into your garden and pecked
up all your seedlings.”
JAMES: “That’s all right. My cat caught your birds this afternoon.”
JONES: “Splendid! I’ve just shot your cat.”
worked with on Westralian fields. Among
the mob was Paddy Hannan—what had be-
come of him? The scrap of paper now blown
against my leg contained a portrait of Paddy,
with an account of his life and then-recent
death.
“J.H.W.” : “Flox” (B. 14/1/’3l),
who maintains that good eyesight
is the only essential to solve the
mystery of the flight of the flying
fish, is all wrong. The wrings of
the flying fish do not act like
those of an aeroplane, nor do they
flap like those of a bird. My
eyesight, plus some knowriedge of
aero-dynamics, proved to me that
they flay the air in the manner
of the bumble bee, so rapidly that
their gossamer wings are seen
like twin halos. What permits
a bird to remain aloft with the
expenditure of so little energy is
the interlapping layout of the
wring feathers. On the upward
beat the air passes diagonally
through the feathers, but on the
down stroke they lock and present
a solid surface to the air. A bird
does not fly by the downward
pressure exerted on the air. It is
lifted by the vacuum created on
top of the wing by the passage of
the wing surface through the air..
Sea birds, such as the albatross,
take off from near the top, but
on the down slope, of a wave fac-
ing up wind; they thus get the
advantage of the lift gained from
the wind, deflected upwards by
the slope of the water. This
pressure creates two distinct
lifts; an actual push up from the
bottom and a greater pull from
the vacuum created above. Were
it not for this lift the bird could
not take off in anything but a
howling gale, the drag of the
water being sufficient to keep it
down. Once in the air it main-
tains flight by the vacuum created
by the curve of the wings. Some
racing ’planes present an abso-
lutely flat under-surface to the
wind, and rely solely on the cam-
ber of the top surface for lift.
This reduces wind resistance but
sacrifices safety, because land-
ing speeds are much higher.
* * *
“Georgina Washingday”; Set-
ting lines in a trout-stream used
to be considered one of the basest
deeds possible to a fisherman, but
there are even lower depths to which
degraded humanity may sink. I know,
because I have sunk there myself, having tem-
porarily thrown in my lot with a gang of
ruffians headed by one Patsy Gilkes, aged
eight and a half (he is insistent upon the
half), who catch mullet in the tidal creeks
of Bermagui (N.S.W.). From their mothers
these urchins obtain pieces of stale bread, and
from the adjacent rubbish-heaps they pro-
cure large, wide-necked bottles —pickle-botties
are very suitable. Bread is placed in the
bottom of each bottle, and the bottle in
the water. The mullet, coming in to feed,
and already attracted by other bits of bread
thrown into the water, nose round until they
DIVIDED RESPONSIBILITY.
STRANGER: “These children all yours, Mary?”
MARY: “No [?]fear! Some of ’em Jacky’s.”
find their way into the bottles. Once in they
cannot get out again, not having room to
turn. Patsy assures me that there is an art
in the placing of the bottles with respect to
the run of the tide. There may be, but I
suspect Patsy of swank.
# * * *
“Wang”: Dad had been appointed a J.P.
and was making his first appearance on the
bench. The accused was a grubby little
swaggy; the charge, drunkenness. After
lecturing him for half an hour-on the enor-
mity of his offence, Dad said: - “I sentence
yer ter six munce ’ard labor, , an’ may r the
Lord have mercy on yer soul!” The local
John, who was also clerk of the court, expos-
tulated in astonishment. ; “You haven’t
power to impose such a sentence, y’ Wor-
ship,” he pointed out. “Wot’:" roared Dad,
his dignity outraged ; “ain’t got power ? Let
me tell yer I’m a dashed sight stronger man
than you are.” “I’m not referring to. your
strength, y’ Worship,” replied the constable,
grinning; “wriiat I mean is you haven’t the
jurisdiction.” “No slingin’ orf at me!” Dad
bellowed. “Jist ter show yer what rights' I
got in this ’ere court, the > pris’ner’s dis-
charged without a stain on ’ees character. 1 ’
“But,” the policeman interposed again.
“None of yer back-chat,” Dad cried; “an-
other word an’ I’ll give you six munce fer
contempt o’ court !”•
* * * *
“Gouger” : The old hatter kicked a billy-
can. across the hut. “Every night there’s
somethin’ on th’ floor,” he complained; “a
man hangs things up an’ they falls down.”
Grunts, arid scratchings and energetic root-
ing of gravel came from outside. The
ancient seized a waddy, and, cautiously open-
ing the door, sprang back with widespread
feet as a porcupine ambled into the hut.
“Hell!” ,he expostulated, “this ain’t a Zoo!
Take your quills outer this before they
spike somethin’!” But the pore., squeaking
possessively, ambled across the earthen
floor fossicking with the queerest of long
tongues. “You won’t find no ants here,”
said the hatter; “but you might nab a flea
or two if you’re hoppy.” The pore, thrust
his strong claws in the floor and threw
up earth into the hatter’s whiskers. The
owner of the hat lifted back his bare foot,
“Jeeroosalem!” he gasped. “If I had kicked
them quills!” He poked the pore, towards
the door, but the absurd thing hissed and
spat and rolled into a ball of bristling
quills. “That’s what the other bloke did,”
muttered the hatter, “when he crawled inter
me bunk an’ I sat on him!” Gingerly
wrapping liis queer visitor in a> bag, he
carried it down to the creek and rolled it
loose.
* * * *
“S.”: The cicada, or so-called locust, whose
stridulation is the voice of summer from
the south to the far north, has been un-
commonly quiet in N. S. Wales this season.
Perhaps this may be accounted for by the
tlireer or four-year cycle in its peculiar life
history, or to the ravages of the small boy,
who is wonderfully diligent and tireless in
the pursuit: of squeaks. Australia has 120
varieties, more than any other part of the
world,- but the. prizes of the youthful bush-
ranger rarely go beyond double drummers,
fiddlers, floury bakers, red eyes, squeakers,
green-Mondays and yellow-Mondays. They
; are ; not . all . vocalists, and the females of
every. species are silent. The small boy
values only the singers, which often get him
“socko” when they tune up in his pocket in
school, and great is the labor that is mis-
spent in climbing tall saplings and racing
(through bushes where the choristers are
voicing their praises. of the sunshine. They
are not harmful, and after being captured
they are very soon voiceless and dead. Trees
along the mid-eastern rivers glisten with
their cast shells while 40,000 shrill voices
are going at once in the surrounding forest.
* * * *
“Tuart” : An uncommonly interesting esti-
mate of the numbers and distribution of the
abos. before the whites came, the work of
Prof. Radcliffe Brown, of Sydney Uni., is
given in tihe latest Commonwealth “Year
Book.” “The available evidence,” the pro-
fessor says, “points to the original popula-
tion of Australia having been certainly
over 250,000, and quite possibly, and even
probably, over 300,000.” He considers that
there were more than 500 tribes, each with
a distinct language; and, taking 251,000 as
the minimum total, there were 100,000 aJ)os.
in what is now Queensland, 52,000 in "West-
ralia, 40,000 in N. S. Wales, 35,000 in the
N.T.. 11,500 in Yic. and 10,000 in South Aus.
The extinct Tasmanians were few in number,
“probably not less than 2000 nor more than
3000.” Small-pox was a great factor in
keeping the population down; there is evi-
dence of very destructive epidemics in
Queensland aiid among the Murray River
tribes, and as late as_ the sixties of last
century a bad one wiped out part of the
North Westralian blacks. At the census
taken on June 30, 1929, there were 61,501
full-bloods.
WHEN WALTER CAMPED WITH ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Peace seemed to reign from sky to earth,
Bright sunshine lit the day,'
As on we journeyed, mate and mate,
Beside the road to Hay.
The grass waved high on plain and ridge,
And like the sea;
Full blossomed were the age-old gums
When Walter camped with me.
The river reach was shadow-lined
And fringed with golden sand,
While stately gum and drooping oak
Stood guard on either hand.
White cockatoos came screeching in,
And, chorusing their glee,
The kookaburras laughed and laughed
When Walter camped with me.
Behind us stretched the unfenced bush,
Great silent avenues
That, tapered to the sun’s gay wake
Of gold and silver hues.
Then darkness came, all velvet-soft
With calm tranquillity;
A world of peacefulness was ours
When Walter camped with me.
As far into the night we yarned
Came memories of old,
Of women’s smiles and women’s guiles
And mates with hearts of gold.
The camp-fire’s smoke rose incense-like,
We watched it dreamily;
The world has nevir seemed so bright
Since Walter camped with me.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


\
SHARP
Owing to special
process in manu-
facture of the lead,
the “ Mephisto ”
Copying Pencil
lasts much longer,
yet writes easily
and smoothly with-
out heavy pressure.
Medium, Hard and
Extra Hard Degrees.
pli PH Iffo
THE POPULAR
COPYING PENCILS
Also in 8 colours for checki g, etc.
From all Stationers, etc.
If ft 0. HAB.DTMTTTH. of “ KOH-I-NOOB ” Pencil fame,
London Office—*9, Kinsmway. W.C.2
Australian Representative—
tOHN MACDOOGALL. P. O. Box 165, SYDNEY.
m
&> . <
WHEN BRICHT
EYES tIANCE/
More precious than the richest gems are a pair
of healthy, laughing eyes. Be on your guard
against Inflammation and Disease. If the eyes
are overstrained or bloodshot or afflicted with
Sandy Blight, Scaly Eyelids, Granulation, etc.,
treat with ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
according to directions. This famous Lotion not only
soothes and heals tired and inflamed Eyes, but restores
the natural brightness and strengthens the sight.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION provides a
simple, rational treatment that is safe for people of
all ages.
Every reputable Chemist and Storekeeper sells it.
ifELQTION
m
WIN. FOWLES
(of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne)
Hands you a g'arap'e
for nothing
A large adjacent garage, free of
charge, is another service Car-
lyon’s Hotel offers you in addi-
tion to what is recognised as
Australia’s greatest refined hotel
values. Tariff: Single Booms
from 4/6 per day; double from
7/6; bed and breakfast, from
6/6 single, or 11/6 double.
All meals optional in tea-
rooms or caf6 at competitive
prices. Inclusive, from 10/6
daily ; or 65/- weekly. Right
. opposite Spencer Street station —no taxi fares for
train travellers. Please write for detailed tariff card.
“Up Top”: The candle-nut tree grows to
a great size in N.Q., and its fruit ought
to have a good market value. The kernel
tastes like walnut; the
nut contains fully 50
.per cent, oil of an amber
color. Pioneers assure
me it was once generally
utilised for candle-mak-
ing, and that after the
oil was extracted the cake
provided excellent fodder
for cattle. I've seen nig-
gers pack the stones to-
gether with reeds as
torches, which bpr n t
steadily for hours.
FURTHER DETAILS WANTED.
FASTIDIOUS DINER (after minutely describing the food he requires and how it should
be cooked and served): “And don’t forget some young spinach. Not over-
cooked, mind you. And make sure it is tender.”
EXASPERATED WAITER: “And what kind of grit would you like with your spinach, sir?”
“Hamer”: Camping during the holidays at
a spot we couldn’t have chosen better if we
had designed to be a banquet for mosquitoes,
I had the satisfaction, as I smarted, of see-
ing a few spine-tailed swifts getting busy
among the buzzing clouds. The neat little
bird dines and practically lives on the wing;
and our swifts dashed backwards and forwards
in the mosquito swarm simply lapping up
nourishment. The survivors didn’t seem to
worry; they kept on buzzing whilst their
brethren disappeared. The spine-tailed swift
is said to use its legs very seldom. When
inclined to rest it hangs on by its beak to
some small bough. It is a restless creature
and darts about at night as much as in the
day time, gobbling up the insects that take
the air in the hours of darkness. Inciden-
tally, the swift is the bird which provides
the Chinese with their bird-nest delicacy.
Its nests are made from a mucous exudation
from their bodies which, when it hardens,
resembles gelatine.
# * * *
“Larrapinta”: Six years ago a South'
Aus. cocky lost a watch while bag-sewing.
A few days ago, while working back fallow
in the same paddock, his son turned up the
same watch minus glass and hands. Out
of curiosity lie wound it up, and to his
great surprise it began to tick. It is still
going, tod —rand it is a five-bob “boyproof.”
* * # *
“Moana”: The Maori, when in a working
mood, can hold his own with the best. On
Tatiwhareparae (M.L.) station just befpre
Christmas a team of eight brown shearers put
through 2216 sheep in 12 hours. They were
average station jumbucks, and the shearing
was remarkably neat and clean. The three
leading tallies were 320, 318 and 314.
=i= * * , #
“Fer-de-lance” : The Commonwealth Health
Department has perfected an antivenene for
tiger-snake poison. This of course, offers no
protection against the poison of other, species
of snakes, though it has a slightly beneficial
effect in the case of the copperhead venom.
When Calmette experimented in the same
direction years ago, he evolved a fairly effec-
tive antivenene to cobra poison. He was
staggered to find that this was useless
against the . venom of other snakes, and aban-
doned his researches. No doubt antivenencs
for ail classes of snake poison will some day
be discovered. Even then there will be a
lot of drawbacks to their use. In an ordinary
day’s walk in some parts of Australia one is
liable to encounter half a dozen different
varieties of wrigglers. To be fully prepared
one would have to carry as many different
antivenenes, to say nothing of an illustrated
book of reference wherewith to distinguish
the variety which has just bitten one.'
“Pick”: A recent
par. proclaiming that
where English star-
lings appear in a dis-
trict they make _ them-
selves a pest will not
be assented to by
N. S. Wales sheepmen.
Starlings hunt hun-
grily after sheep-ticks.
Where any impover-
ished flock becomes
infested with those
parasites at anytime of
the day numbers of starlings, perched on the
backs of sheep, may be seen exploring their
overcoats for the insects. Another item on
the starling menu is the blowfly, and the
bird is the worst foe of the grass-grub.
FOR THE LOOK OF THE THING.
DAN : “Not going in, are you, Bill?”
BILL: “No, I ain’t exactly goin’ in; but when a man’s married he’s got to keep up
appearances a bit.”
“Rarramundi”: While fishing lately along
Hutton Creek, about 70 miles north
of Roma (Q.), I came upon an old weather-
beaten canoe which, I
learnt, had been hacked
and burnt out of a solid
gum log, some 12ft. long
by 18in. thick, about
1880. Fitted with row-
locks ‘ and an outrigger,
this home-made craft
served to ferry the selec-
tor across Hutton ,Creek
until the 1890 flood,
which carried the canoe
away. Years after the
present occupant, as he
tells me, was riding
across the temporarily
dry bed of the creek
when he noticed the
pointed bow sticking
through the sand. Hav-
ing dug it out of the silt
where it had been buried
for the preceding 27
years, he found it in per-
fect condition, and used
it for the next 12 years
as a pig-trough, only re-
cently discarding it, still
strong and solid. Of
recent years white ants
have begun to attack it,
but apart from this its
50 years of rough hand-
ling have made little impression on the stout
old gum.
* $ * *
“Buckwong”: In my young days, 50 to
60 years ago, the first sign on the Upper
Murray of a dry season down on the plains
was the passing overhead of uncountable
flocks of crows on their way to the mountains,
where they stayed until the coming of
autumn rains encouraged them to return
down country. If those rains came good
and early the hosts went over loftily, seldom
condescending to come into the valleys; but
if the breaking of the drought was tardy and
grudging they came down promiscuous-like
upon us, and dawdled along the rivers,
just like well-seasoned drovers with starving
sheep would do. The most enduring recol-
lection of my first ride over Kosciusko in
the midsummer of 1882 is of the hosts of
hazel-eyed crows, speckling black all the
grey-green of the “High Tops,” from the
Hound Mountain to Ram’s Head. For half
a hundred miles we were never out of sight
and hearing of their multitudes, which
must have run far into the millions. They
were all foraging the big, clumsy, poisonous-
looking purple grasshoppers of the snow
country, whose numbers were enough to keep
all these visitors for nearly half the year.
The great drought of 1902-03 was the last
time that I can remember this great seasonal
migration taking place, and even then we
considered the numbers were noticeably less
than they had been in the ’eighties. By the
drought of 1914-15 the numbers of black
tourists were negligible; and since then I
have noticed none. Have all those hazel-
eyed billstickers gone out of existence?
* * * *
“Mac Ropus”: Much hunting, for sport
and tucker, has convinced me that the wal-
laby can run rings round the Too for shrewd-
ness. Although perhaps pursued for hours
the smaller hopper will often elude a dog
in a patch of scrub, only a few acres m
extent, without once breaking cover or show-
ing himself to the gunner. He keeps on
doubling .back on his tracks until the host
of hounds becomes puzzled to know wheth-r
he is coming or going. A hunted Too simply,
runs around through the open country until
he is caught or shot. Also the wallaby alone
realises the value of running water as a
scent-extinguisher, and never fails to take
advantage of the swiftest river. On the sea
coast in the Speck they will move fearlessly
into the waves. Finally, a loop of wire tied
to the" side of a tree makes a deadly Too
snare. A wallaby, caught in this contri-
vance, simply sits down and hooks the loop
from off his neck with his big toe.
BLUE’S HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Two flaming nicks,” he said, and flung the
kip down in the mud.
“God spare me days, a man is stiff enough
to stop a , dud !”
And, as the grins spread round the school, he
said “You laugh, but I
Will do a hand some day that will make all
you blighters cry.”
He tried his luck in; all the schools, the big
ones and the small,
From. Fromelles to Bapaume and back, and
did his dough in all.
High "were his hopes when he went in, but
Fate remained unkind,
And always when two nicks were called he’d
leave his stake behind.
The stiffest man in France was Blue, of
that he had no doubt,
As feelingly he’d testify each time that he
spun out.
But ever firm w T as his belief that luck would
break his way,
And long would be the trot of “heads” that
he would do some day.
A dreary dawn at Passchendaele; grey
earth and greyer skies,
And weary men who floundered round like
tanglefooted flies.
Then, as an order to advance from hole to
hole was passed,
There came a shout from Blue to say his
luck had changed at last.
We saw him pointing to his arm—or what
was left of it;
“Come here,” lie, said, “and give a hand to
tie it up a bit.
Then I’ll get well back out of this while
you get further in;
I always told you, didn’t I, some day I'd
have a win?”
Perhaps our faces told a tale, for Blue soon
understood
That he would never do that hand he’d
promised us ho would.
But gallantly he smiled and said, “Well,
anyway, I bet
That if ole Blue had done that hand lie
wouldn’t have got set.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


LIFE. INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument ever
devised by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
A MUTUAL institution where the whole of the available surplus
is divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office: F. T. BRIDGES,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney. General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country towns, and field representatives in all Districts.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO THE MANUFACTURE OF RUBBER.
J\JOTICE is hereby given that the owner of the
undermentioned Patents is willing to enter into
arrangements to supply all requirements of the public
by means of license or otherwise, for working the
said inventions: Australian Patent No. 8677, dated
Sept. 24, 1921 ; Australian Patent No. 14277, dated
Sept. 14, 1922. Further information may be
obtained on application to DAVIES AND COLLISON,
Patent Attorneys, 483 Collins Street, Melbourne.
IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO
ROCK-DRILLS AND THE LIKE.
JyJ'OTICE is hereby given that the owner of Aus-
tralian Patent No. 6725/27 is desirous of enter-
ing into arrangements to supply all requirements of
the public by means of license or «t her wise, for
working the said invention. Further particulars
will be supplied on application to DAVIES AND
COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING
TIN-OPENERS.
MO TICE is hereby given that the owner of Aus-
tralian Patent No. 19305/29 is desirous of
entering into arrangements to supply all require-
ments of the public b,y means of license-or other-
wise for working the said invention. Further par-
ticulars will be supplied on application to DAVIES
AND COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notice. ______
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1526 of 1930.
Between IVY MAY TOMES Petitioner
And FREDERICK CHARLES TOMES Respondent
To FREDERICK CHARLES TOMES late of
Thalabg, Road Newhampton Newcastle in the State of
New South Wales a Biograph Operator.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IVY MAY TOMES
has commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for dissolution of her marriage
with you on the grounds that you wilfully and
without just cause or excuse deserted her and left
her continuously so deserted during three years and
upwards AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the sixteenth day of April One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-one. And in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned solicitor
free of charge.
Dated this twenty-first day of January, a.d. 1931.
For the Registrar,
[l.s.] C. K. BQDJ,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. A. Clapin & Fleming-,
Solicitors for the Petitioner,
119 Phillip Street, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
Our politicians have IOUtopian ideals.
* *
“Plaintiff said he swore at his wife because she
refused to mend his clothes. She said ‘Buy new
ones,’ and he couldn’t afford to.” —Divorce evidenpe.
Yet another Sydneyite on his b mends.
¥ #
“There is no mincing maters with cannibals.”
-—“Sun.”
No. Their teeth can tackle the toughest
mater unminced.
THE HEAT WAVE.
“Brisbane Town Hall clock is to be stepped
striking between midnight and daybreak.”
— “Courier.-”
Thus making it one of those silent watches
of the night.
* *
“She admitted having thrown water ever respon-
dent. That was one night when he came home
drunk.”- —Divorce report.
A neat way of hinting that lie needed more
water with his whisky.
“Rev. R. B. Hammond started a State-wide pro-
hibition drive in N.S.W. last week.”
Inspired, we understand, by the prosperity
of the U.S.A., where they have only 5,000,000
unemployed.
* *
FABLE OF THE CONSISTENT FINAN-
CIAL GENIUS.
There was once a Financial Genius who
adopted as his Guiding Motto or Slogan the
phrase, “When in Doubt Release Credits."’
He had hardly learned to Sign His Name
when he Began Releasing lOU’s. He had
hardly learned to Sign Other People’s Names
when he Began Releasing Their Cheques.
Eventually he Broke Into a Bank, and
Released a Large Sum of Money. He was
Released from Gaol Five Years Later, and
Immediately Announced his Political Policy:
viz., The Release of Credits All over Aus-
tralia. So they Made a Member of Him,
and he has Never Looked Back Since.
Moral. —You can Fool Some of the People
All the Time.
Max F.
* #
CASABIANCA TO DATE.
The Yid stood in the burning shop
And stroked his Hebrew nozzle;
Said he “Insurance? Id’s a cop.
So note I’ll joost schcmozzle.”
J. B. 11.
RESOURCE.
“On the announcement of the Arbitration Court
of a 10 per cent, cut in wages, Mr. Crofts, who
had appeared for the unions, shouted ‘To Hell with
these Judges.’ He then sang ‘The Red Flag’ and
defiantly left the court.” — Press■ report.
The patient had died without coming out
of the anaesthetic. The relations, who had
been hurriedly summoned, turned for an
explanation to Dr. Duddle. He immedi-
ately shouted “To Hell with appendicitis!”
sang the surgeons’ theme song ‘Alibi! My
Alibi!’” and —merely waiting to retrieve a
pair of forceps and a saw that he had left
in the deceased —strode from the operating-
theatre. The relatives expressed satisfaction
with Dr. Duddle’s explanation, and decided
unanimously to put his skill at the disposal
of their rich Uncle Skinflint, whose health
was showing signs of improvement.
NO OFFENCE MEANT.
“You snake in the grass! Do you know this woman is my wife?”
“Sorry, old man—I didn’t even know you were married.”
“He had hardly pawned the watch when the
detectives arrested him.”- — Police-court report.
Having watched the pawn, of course.
x. «
HE WOULDN’T BE THERE TO PAY.
“I wonder what we women will wear in. Heaven?”
“Oh, same as you do here, I suppose—the most expen-
sive things to be bought.”
“I suppose so, dear; but still there’s no need for YOU
to worry about that."
ON THE ROCKS.
The restless ocean comes and goes;
Its waters• plug and choke,
1 watch the backwash as it flows,
I hear the comber’s stroke,
And wonder if that bust wave knows
That both of us are broke?
SYD S.
COLOR, QUESTION.
The domes of Scullin’s crowd, for all I
know,
May black as midnight ibe, or white as snore;
They may be bald, and like old ivory glow;
Or to grey thatches they may all be
wedded.
Yet when they dally with the faith which
brands
The Communist, and fail to lift their hands
In protest against Bolshevik demands —
They one and all appear to me Red-headed.
P.
HELPING THE AFFLICTED.
Touched to the quick by the stories I have
read of the effect of the N.S.W. Bets Tax
Act I have formed the Broken Bookies’
Improvident Fund.
Surely hearts must bleed for the unfortu-
nate men who have for years done their best
to relieve the public of its money, and now
are thrown on the rocks. Hundreds of poor
struggling bookmakers
have been rendered home-
less, their diamond rings
and scarfpins torn from
them, their champagne
ruthlessly cut off. .There
have been crises in the
industry before in which
bookies’ wives have had
to do without limousines
and go shopping in tour-
ers and even taxis, but.
never anything like this.
Several of these wretched,
heartbroken women have
been seen latterly in
trams ! Surely the great
heart of the public, which
has been served with
dynamite odds for so
many years, must bleed
for the books and their
families now. Surely,
surely the few who, de-
spite the activities of the
Ring, are still in funds
will step into the finan-
cial breach.
I . have appointed my-
self secretary of the
fund, and the correct
handling of the moneys
received is guaranteed by
the fact that all cheques
have to be signed by the
president as well as the
secretary. I have appoint-
ed myself president also.
My action in the
matter is taken in an
entirely altruistic spirit.
I will get absolutely no-
thing out of the fund but
thq 17s. 6d. in the £ cus-
tomary in these affairs.
Intending subscribers
are urged to forward
their donations as early
as possible, as I’m
thirsty.
HAROLD HARDUPP
LAW REPORT—1981.
“If the law is to be administered so laxly in
respect of the gambling' evil, it will be found that
in 50 years’ time the law itself will be nothing but
a gamble. ’\—Methodist protest.
A big crowd of punters turned up at the
Darlinghurst convincing-ground this morn-
ing when the trial of “Bluey” Beard for the
murder of his 27th wife was run. Book-
makers operated freely in the
gallery, where the closing
prices were: —
Guilty: 6to 4 on.
Not Guilty: 5 to 1 against.
The market for doubles
was favorable. It was
rumored that the books
would suffer the heaviest
blow of the year if the result
was Guilty-Death, and con-
sternation was caused when
it became known that Mr.
Nark ( for the Crown) had
taken the double Guilty-Life
for a large amount.
The event attracted a
record crowd; so much so
that it was impossible to
get near the tote windows
after 10 a.m. At that hour
the indicators revealed that
£7422 was invested on
Guilty, and £BOOl on Not
Guilty. Mr. Windbag, K.C.
(for the accused), offered to
take 10 to 1 in quids about
the Judge being late, bin
found no one to oblige him
at the odds.
His Honor (on talcing his
seat) : “If all bets are well
and truly laid I will now
hear Mr. Windbag/’
Mr. W.: “Our defence is
an alibi, y’r Honor. I’ll lay
5 to 1 my client was not at
Botany on the night of the
murder.”
His Honor: “I’ll take
you, Windbag, in ponies.”
Mr. Nark: “And I say
he was, and here’s 50 of the
best to prove it at sevens.”
His Honor: “Very sport-
ing of you, Nark.” (To the
jury.) “Any of you gentle-
men like to do business?
Nothing doing? All right.
Get out the Court’s double-headed penny,
tipstaff, and we’ll give the poor cow a go
for it. Tails he was at Botany on the fatal
night, heads he wasn’t. Heads it is, and l'li
thank you for £145, Windy, old sport.”
A hush fell over the dense throng as his
Honor donned the black cap and said: ’ln
sentencing you to be hanged by the neca
until you are dead, I wish it to be made
known that I’ll lay 7 to 2 on. the Executive
Council commuting
your sentence to im-
prisonment for life."
R. X. B.
THE MISUNDER-
STANDING.
There was unrest
in Slugurbville. The
local councillors had
passed a by-law
warning perambu-
lators off the path-
ways. A feminine
deputation waited on
the Mayor. “Every
woman here,” said
the leader, “owns a
perambulator; every
woman in the suburb
owns one, and one
and all demand the
right to use them.”
The Mayor blushed.
“Speakin’ on be'arf
of the council,” he
said, “w e ain’t
stopped youse from
usin’ ’em —only from
blockin’ the paths
with ’em.” (Cries
of “Hotter,” “Bag
your head.”) “Many’s
the time I’ve got
cracked on the
shins” (uproar),
“and I reckon that
if yers want to
wheel ’em about,
then you should be
licensed like motor-
drivers and be forced
to keep to the roads.”
(Cat-calls and jeers.)
The chief spokes-
woman rushed for-
ward and told the
Mayor that he was a
callous brute. “Have
you no consideration
for womenfolk, you measly man?” she
inquired. “Don’t you own a perambulator?
Doesn’t your wife use one?”
“My oath she does,” he said with a laugh
that had in it a certain undertone of bitter-
ness. “She’s just ’ad ’er second lot of
twins.” •
“Twins!” shrieked the spokeswoman, who
was a spinster. “Babies! How disgustingly,
how loathsomely indelicate! We only use
our prams for shopping, you beast!”
TREVDEE.


PROBAK
THE BETTER BLADE
FITS THIS
TYPE RAZOR
OLD OR NEW
You use a razor of this type? Then PROBAK Blades will
fif if. PROBAK —fhe better blades: the blades that cannot
vary because they are made from an endless ribbon of steel,
ground, honed and finished in one continuous operation.
The blades that glide across your face as though the stubble
wasn't there; and silently, smoothly make sure that it ISN’T
there .... Get a packet of PROBAK Blades to-day. Prove
to yourself that each is as amazingly sharp as the first you
try! Sold everywhere at fixed prices: 1/9 the small packet;
3/6 the large.
PROBAK—THE BLADES THAT CANNOT VARY
Made and guaranteed by the Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eng.
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
i
m
i
<*>/a
■■ s
1
n
duiiunuuim
alllUlllllllHUllllllllllilllllllnmiHiiiiiniiiniilllH
y
! J
15$
A
bs
§3m
mmy
w>
M
T' : Mk
*'■ ttiii
MORNING in. Hawaii . . . The snowy linen of breakfast table
reflects the shimmering sunlight which dances in through case-
ments never closed. . . . Through the gnarled branches of a great
banyan tree a lazy wind whispers with fragrant breath of secrets
garnered during a magic night.
Nowhere else on earth does Nature pour out her favours with such
lavish hand . . . For each of Man’s senses she gathers delights, distri-
butes them in abundance . . . from luscious pineapples, cool with
morning dew, to the lilt of lapping waters touched with moonlight.
Nature’s cadence, too, is caught in the strains of sobbing steel guitars.
Each day the miracle is repeated. Each night the magic mystery is
renewed.
Go this year. Let no worry of heat disturb you. The cool delights of
day give way to the cool comforts of night. Hawaii is only a short
sail away. The trip itself is an epoch ... a symphony of sun, and
sea, and sky. CaM on your nearest Booking Agents,
or. write us jor literature.
neaping
im—a
Box 1627 88,
G.P.0., Sydney,
“Not a bite in
a bottle
McCallunts for
me every time!’
(DTaliums
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. ' LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
McFARLANE BROS., Hobart.


'N
m
9
WM«I
PJCf H‘ c^u 4,
A cheque is a passport to business consideration.
A cheque is a receipt in itself. The whole of the
modern fabric of trading and production is based
on cheque payments.
Get into cheque circles with a bank deposit!
Have a Bank Account—Keep it Growing. [
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD. i
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth and at London.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Royal Easter Show
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY
30th MARCH TO Bth APRIL, 1931
Nine Days - - - - - Five Nights
£14,000 PRIZES £14,000
ENTRIES CLOSE:
WINES 16th February
HORSES (including Trotting Events) 21st February
CATTLE and PIGS • 23rd February
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES, and CAGE BIRDS 27th & 28th February
DOGS and CATS 2nd March
AGRICULTURE (including Fruit and Apiculture) 27th February
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes 1349 and 1350) 27th February
WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS . 9th March
Schedules and Entry Forms on Application
Endeavour House,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EU
MECGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THE VALUE OF LUCERNE.
“Bar K.”: Lucerne is undoubtedly the
most valuable fodder crop known. Until
recently there was an idea in Australia that
it would grow only on rich alluvial flats,
but it has been found to thrive on almost
any soil—sour, badly-drained soils excepted—
provided the roots can penetrate to the moist
sub-soils and the climate is warm enough
to encourage growth in the summer.
While lucerne loves heat accompanied by
moist conditions, it will withstand long dry
periods wonderfully, if the stand is well
established. Some trouble is necessary to
prepare a suitable seed-bed and to establish
the young plants, but once properly rooted
lucerne, with plenty of cultivation and fer-
tiliser, will remain for years, without re-
planting. Mexico claims to have beds over
200 yeai’s old, while there are fields in
France that are known to be over 100 years
old. The reason that many Australian beds
need re-planting after six or seven years is
often that they have not been sufficiently
cultivated and fed.
The seed-bed should be compact and firm,
and should receive its final ploughing not
less than six weeks before sowing. Sowings
may be made in autumn or spring; the rate
of sowing will vary wfith the local condi-
tions, but from six to twelve pounds to the
acre will usually suffice. If the seed-bed has
been properly prepared and the weather is
suitable, seedings of up to 201 b. or 301 b. to
the acre are extravagant. On small areas the
sowing is often done by means of mechanical
broadcasters, but the seed may also be sown
through the grass-seed attachment of an
ordinary seed-drill. After sowing, the bed
should be lightly rolled and harrowed.
When the young plants are four to six
inches high it is w T ell to mow the crop so as
to check weed growth ; the young crop can
be left on the ground as a mulch. Mowings
should be made again in about a month.
When the plants are firmly established the
bed should be cultivated with a light harrow.
As the plants become more firmly rooted, and
the stems harden off, the spring-tooth may
be used freely both ways, without any injury
to the crop. After two years, the disc
harrow, with the discs set with not too
much pitch, will work wonders in conserv-
ing moisture and promoting fresh growth.
The disc harrow splits the crown of the
plants instead of injuring them, as one
might suppose, and encourages new stems to
shoot up. This discing and cross-discing will
also help materially in killing out couch
grass or other weeds that may be injuring
the crop.
In very dry climates it will pay to plant
lucerne in drills from two feet to two feet
six inches apart. A cultivator can then be
worked between the drills and the moisture
conserved, especially during the early stages
of growth, allowing the crop to become well
established. It is doubtful if any weight
of crop is lost by drill planting, provided the
cultivator is used freely. Any means of let-
ting air into the soil will stimulate the bac-
teria supplying nitrogen, as well as retain-
ing the moisture and making it available to
the plants. Lucerne is such a precious fodder
crop to any farmer that it will repay almost
any amount of trouble that the preparation
of the seed-bed and care after planting may
entail.
Lucerne is a heavy feeder, and unless the
soil is of a very rich nature should receive
an annual dressing of 2cwt. per acre of super.
In. common with other legumes, it draws its
nitrogen from the air by means of vegetable
bacteria, which form small wart-like nodules
on the roots of the plants. As these micro-
organisms may not establish themselves dur-
ing the early growth of the plants, it is
advisable to add sulphate of ammonia, at
the rate of lewt. to the acre, together with
2cwt. of super, when the seed is planted.
It is not a good plan to mix the seed with
the fertiliser wffien planting, as this is likely
to affect the germination.
The greatest enemy of the lucerne-grower
is a parasitical plant known as dodder.
It is a most difficult matter to eradicate
dodder, and the use of thoroughly clean seed
is essential. Control may also be effected by
repeatedly feeding the crop down very closely
with stock. The mower will not cut closely
enough to the ground to eradicate all the
lower tendrils of the pest.
Australia has tried growing more wheat,
with rather distressing results as far as the
price is concerned (though the yield has
been magnificent), but it can hardly go
wrong if it grows more lucerne. It is largely
because Argentina cattle are topped off with
lucerne that beef from that country is so
highly esteemed in the British and European
market. I recall that the great Elwood Mead,
brought back to Australia to consider the
problem of the irrigation areas, recommended
that lucerne should be grown there on a
large scale for topping-off purposes, but the
Governments of N. S. Wales, Vic. and ft.
Aus. wouldn’t listen to him.
SOIL EVAPORATION.
“U. Murray”: Perhaps the most signifi-
cant discovery of recent years in rural
science is that announced by the Waite
Institute in South Aus. —that pasture land
treated with a standard dressing of super,
registers an average of 30 per cent, less
evaporation than similar land not treated.
This wonderful result —most probably caused
chiefly by the improved mechanical and mole-
cular condition of the surface soil —should
under normal price conditions more than re-
pay the cost of treatment, as excessive
evaporation is the especial curse of Aus-
tralian climates, in pasture and agriculture
alike. It offers an explanation of the mysteri-
ous way in which a tenfold growth of herb-
age on treated country seems to make a
lighter demand on the essential moisture than
the sparser growth on untreated surfaces ; and
raises anticipations of much greater con-
quests when science has felt its way on to
more perfect methods.
•
ON A SCIENTIFIC BASIS.
“Centurion”: Arable land has for cen-
turies been artificially enriched by manur-
ing. It is only of late years that attention
lias been given to the possibility of improv-
ing pasture by similar processes, but already
it has been shown in Australia that sys-
tematic top-dressing leads to increased pro-
duction of wool, butter and meat at con-
siderably decreased costs per unit. Much
depends, however, on determining the correct
time of application, and the quality and
quantity of the fertiliser to be used. The
Departments of Agriculture and other bodies
have done something to educate the farmer
and grazier on these matters. There has
been inevitable overlapping, and a body
entitled the Plant Food Advisory Committee
has been formed to take charge of the work
in N.S.W.
Suppliers of nitrogen, potash, superphos-
phates and lime, in conjunction with the
State Advisory Board, representatives of the
Australian Dairy Council and officers of the
State Agricultural Department, will consti-
tute the committee. The Council of Indus-
trial and Scientific Research will co-operate,
while the services of Mr. H. W. Gepp will
also be available if required. Four sub-
committees have been appointed to deal with
(a) pastures and lucerne, (b) cereals and
fodder crops, (c) fruit crops, ( d ) root and
vegetable crops.
'The committee does not aim at interfering
with individual effort. It hopes to be of
assistance in the planning and carrying out
of field trials and tests and the dissemina-
tion of information in connection with all
types of crops and pastures. It requests
farmers’ and graziers’ organisations and their
branches to work in with it in discussing
details for intended field experiments. In
order to secure the best results, tests should
be carried out under the supervision of the
committee’s experts. Proper preparation of
the area to be tested is essential, and it is
highly important that accurate records should
be kept on forms which • the committee will
provide. . . -
The services of the committee are given
free. The only costs to the men on the
land will be those involved in preparing the
areas for the field trials and the carrying
.out of the tests. New methods which have
been successful overseas will be investigated
by the committee, and adapted to Australian
conditions if it can be done.
WILD HOP-BUSH.
“Wandi”: A valuable fodder plant that
should be spread in all suitable parts that
are subject to periodical droughts is the
native hop-bush. Its resistant powers
are great, and there is no waste. The
leaves and small stems are relished by all
stock, and many backblockers declare that
the flowers, when dried and pressed, are
better than the commercial brand of hops
for both bread- and beer-making. Campers
and travellers use them when other leaven-
ing is unobtainable, and at one time, when
the liquor law was not as rigid as it is
now, they were profitable to many a wayside
pubbery. Customers who wanted “two ales”
usually got wild-hop brew for one of them.
When not fed down in the paddocks, the
tops may be stored or cut into chaff. The
bark and tough woody stems furnish good
fibre. With this material the blacks made
fishing-lines and nets of various sorts. And
though the stems are not very thick, they are
excellent fuel; they burn readily and give
a strong heat.
Hop-bush flourishes on poor soils. On the
interior plains and in sandy country, when
not severely cropped by cattle, it grows from
sft. to 10ft. high. When in fruit it is a
handsome shrub, and suitable for gardens
where the conditions are too dry and the
soil too poor for most other plants.
COUNTRY KILLING.
From ,T. B. Cramsie, chairman of the
Metropolitan Meat Industry Board :
In “Country Killing and the Culls” (B. 28/l/’3l)
there is a statement that I was invited to visit
Armidale to investigate the proposal put forward
by the Australian Graziers’ Meat Co. I deny the
latter part of this statement, my visit being simply
to advise the producers of Armidale and surround-
ing districts of my views on a co-operative proposal
they had in view. A largely attended meeting was
held in Armidale in December to discuss country
killing and the treatment at that centre of fat lambs
for export. One of the promoters, Mr. D. M. Shand,
visited Sydney, and was surprised to find that I was
not only willing to discuss the proposal, but was pre-
pared to assist them in their attempt to establish
country killing successfully. I have never been an
opponent of country killing, but I am a strong
opponent of attempting to establish it on lines which
have in the past resulted in failure and would have
a similar result in the future.
I have only just returned from Armidale, where
I had the pleasure of addressing a very large meeting
of producers, and pointing out that it was not so
much a question of the establishment of country
killing as of the establishment of increased and im-
proved production to provide a load for killing at
such a centre. It was pointed out by the promoters
that they did not anticipate a continuous load,
nor do they anticipate supplying the metropolitan
area. All the prominent men interested in the
movement —which was to be co-operative—decided
that it was useless for them to attempt to establish
country killing until there was sufficient production
of fat lambs to provide the load for the proposed
plant. It was pointed out that on the Tablelands
there was nearly a million acres of country which
would respond to pasture improvement, and that with
a large extension in pasture improvement and the
production of artificial fodders such as turnips, rape,
etc., there would be no difficulty in producing over
a reasonable period of the year between 100,000
and 150,000 lambs. These, with the cold storage of
fruit and possibly a fair trade in rabbits, should
give the plant—if established—a volume of opera-
tion which would enable it to be economically and
successfully operated. To establish country killing
without establishing a better and more regular scheme
for production and fattening of stock in any district
must result in failure.
Mention is made in The Bulletin article of the
question of preserving, which, I understand, refers
to the canning of mutton. Before the canning of
mutton could he carried out on a very much in-
creased scale, it would be necessary to organise
markets and arrange for an active combined adver-
tising and sale propaganda. This would naturally
form part of a proper organisation of the meat
industry; without it, to attempt to can, say, one
million aged sheep would possibly end disastrously.
The best brains in Australia should be got
together to deal with the reorganisation of our
meat industry. Prosperity will not come to that
industry by country killing alone; it will only come
by a thorough organisation; of production, treatment,
transport and marketing, as in New Zealand.
Before becoming interested in any company or
proposal for country killing, I would ask the pro-
ducers to inquire: (1) Are those forming the co.
investing their money in the venture? (2) What
percentage are those selling the shares securing
for their work, and are they taking that per-
centage out in shares or cash? (3) What guarantee
are the promoters giving that works will be estab-
lished? (4) What guarantee have they secured of
the volume of operation at any one centre? (5)
What design of plant have they decided upon?
I have on many occasions urged that the functions
of our board should be extended over the whole
State, to enable the services of our highly trained
technical and scientific staff to be available for
advice and assistance, if required, in the establish-
ment of abattoirs in the more populous country
centres. When established, I consider these plants
should first secure the killing of all local domestic
requirements, then for the surrounding districts —
especially up and down the line —and later, if suc-
cessful, extend their operations for metropolitan
supply or export. This would mean efficient and
economical treatment, enable proper inspection of
meat to be carried out, which is not done to-day,
and give the consuming public of such localities a
maximum protection against the distribution of
diseased meat, such as is given the residents of
our metropolitan area to-day.
• •••••
The directors of the Australian Graziers’
Meat Co. having been given the opportu-
nity to comment on Mr. Cramsie’s statement,
Mr. A. G. Noble, secretary to the co., sends
the following reply :
The Bulletin, it seems, assumed that Mr. Cramsie
was visiting Armidale to expound the only practical
doctrine of country killing—that indicated by the
Australian Graziers’ Meat Co., Ltd. It is to be
commended for its assumption that such a well-
known figure in the meat world would, when visiting
the country, be enunciating the one proposal that
will stand the strictest investigation.
My directors sent their best wishes to the Armi-
dale movement in a telegram addressed to the
chairman of the meeting, to other prominent graziers
and to the press. In this message they expressed
“keenest sympathy with northern graziers in their
difficulty. They are prepared to render any assist-
ance, but they maintain that both the producing
and marketing end of the N. S. Wales meat industry
must be controlled by one big graziers’ organisation.
If your meeting will endorse their suggestion, they
are prepared heartily to co-operate \yith your com-
mittee for early action. The company has nearly
500 northern grazier shareholders and almost a like
number of southern ones. The grazing industry
must have unity of action. Producers can control
now if they try hard enough. Sydney opposition
would like to see them split forces.” A well-known
Armidale grazier who was present at the conference in
that town writes: “The operator in a small way
and with a single inland plant is not going to be
successful, and may do some harm, by providing
an awful example for the Sydney booster.” This
grazier is a man who has had a lot more practical
experience in the meat industry, both in Australia
and abroad, than has Mr. Cramsie.
My directors have the greatest respect for the
ability of the gentleman who controls the Meat
Board, and yet their opinions as to the conditions
necessary to make country killing a success are in
direct opposition to those expressed by Mr. Cramsie
in his letter. We believe when that gentleman speaks
of the best brains, he means the best brains selected
from the grazing industry, and not from the specu-
lators and carcase-butchers of Sydney, because
Mr. Cramsie, in his official position, has had every
opportunity of proving that the excellence of the
production, the treatment, the transport and the
marketing in New Zealand is entirely due to the
action of graziers themselves. They have so capably
handled the co-operative companies in Maoriland,
that the opposition of vested interests has been
entirely overcome, with untold benefit to the primary
producer.
The word of warning issued by the chairman of
the Meat Board regarding canning on an increased
scale prompts one to ask what the duties of the
Meat Board are. Do they begin and end with the
inspection of meat, or should their duties have in-
cluded the finding of ways and means to secure a
market abroad?
A glance at the article “Meat Contract Loss” in
the Sydney “Sun” of February 5 shows clearly that
the producers, at all events, are not receiving good
value from the Meat Board. In the article referred
to, Mr. Cramsie is reported as saying, regarding the
loss of the War Office contract: “He was not
surprised, because the Australian meat industry
was not represented in London.” Mr. H. C. Carter,
M.L.A., hit the nail on the head when he asked
in Parliament why the Australian tenders were
higher than ever when the growers were paid so
little. The answer, Mr. Carter, is a definite one:
Because Australia has not, up to date, found a
statesman with sufficient foresight and backbone to
say, “Speculators, hands off primary products! The
profits from these industries are the exclusive right
of our primary producers.”
Mr. Cramsie advises graziers to be sure on five
points, and my board of directors heartily endorses
his suggestions. Mr. Cramsie, of course, is not
referring to the Australian Graziers’ Meat Co., Ltd.,
as he is quite conversant with the original condit’ons
associated with its formation; but, for the benefit
of thousands of Bulletin readers, we will take his
opinions in order as though they did! apply to this
company. (1) The sponsors of this company are
its directors, and they have their own capital in-
vested in the company. (2) The company’s organiser
is a most capable man. He is being paid his
brokerage in cash, not in shares, and the directors
estimate the total cost of the establishment of
this big reform, including brokerage, legal and all
other charges, at approximately 10 per cent. (3)
The policy of the directors is definitely laid down.
Not one penny of shareholders’ money will be spent
on the purchase of land or in the erection of
buildings or plant unless the company has sufficient
capital to carry out its complete scheme for the
controlling, under truly co-operative principles, of
both the producing and the marketing end of the
meat industry. Mr. Cramsie will readily admit that,
with our proposals in force, Australia would have
been represented in London, and our tender for that
War Office contract would not have been higher
than ever. The great likelihood is that Australia
would have secured the business. (4) The company s
works will be established in those centres from
which Homebush receives the bulk of its supplies.
The position will be as it is to-day, except that
big savings will accrue to the producer, and that
the consumer will have a guarantee of cheaper and
better quality meat as well as an immediate revival
of our export trade. (5) Lastly, regarding the design
of plant. Mr. Cramsie will agree with us that he
personally would easily be capable of selecting
the world’s best plant were he given the capita
to do so.
This is written in the hope that Australians
will no longer be content to talk, but will msis
upon the introduction of a proved system that, once
in operation, cannot fail to overcome all opposition.
Vested interests have, in the past, strangled a
will each individual attempt to establish country
killing, but against State-wide co-operative effort
they will be powerless.
, go \
( Land Page continued on p( QC .)


AUSTRALIA MOST INCREASE HER EXPORTS NOW
THE GRAZIER AND MEAT EXPORT
New South Wales cannot, irrespective of pre-
vailing conditions, compete in the meat market
abroad unless country killing is adopted
throughout the State.
The outstanding illustrations of New Zealand
and Denmark prove that growers’ co-operative
companies, conducting both the producing and
the marketing, is the ideal way. It results in
manifold benefits to the State and to the man
on the land.
r Sydney “Herald” of February 5 pub-
lished the announcement that Australia had
lost the annual Army contract for tinned
meat This certainly is bad news in that
we did not obtain a share even of the War
Office contract for 1,500,000 tins of meat
and that the successful tenderer is South
America, a country that does not produce an
article m any way superior to that grown
m Australia.
Later advices assert that our quotation
was higher than ever, permitting the query
in some quarters whether the price was
advanced in order to reap additional profit on
the exchange. The reports adds that, apart
from the preference, the War Office is always
prepared to stretch a point in favor of the
Dominions, but that the margin between the
Australian and South American prices was
sufficiently great in this instance as to forbid
even serious consideration of the Australian
tender.
The above information gives food for
thought, and I assert, with no uncertain
voice, that were the meat industry of N.S.W.
controlled by a co-operative company owned
*?' th ® graders of the State, such a condi-
tion of affairs could not possibly have been
brought about. In passing, I would like
to inform your readers that the system of
grading canned meats in Australia is so poor
that no reliance can be placed on it. To
return to. the question of the contract, we are
faced with the fact that while meat is
cheaper m Australia than it has been for
years, our prices quoted for the War Office
tender seem to have been higher than ever.
There , are several explanations of this put
S fh ar *f « r wV? lgh authorit y J- K- Cramsie,
of the IVS.W. Metropolitan Meat Board, con-
sicters that one of the causes operating is
the absence of any direct representation of
Jr e i * us t l 'alian meat trade in London, since
the Australian Meat Council lapsed some
years ago. In his opinion if this country
had had an accredited representative in
London to push its claims, it would have
received at least a portion of the contract,
individual manufacturers were hopelessly
handicapped. A representative body or indi-
vidual could have tendered, and the contract,
it accepted, would have then been distributed
among half a dozen firms. The insinuation
that the high price tendered was due to
exchange profiteering hardly holds water.
Ihe Argentine, with its 2s. Id. peso worth
only a shilling to-day, is even better off than
Australia m this respect.
The real reasons, however, for the loss of
tins contract and the doldrums into which the
Australian meat export trade has fallen must
be sought elsewhere. A fundamental prin-
Cl £ . ff* a t must hold dominant sway in the
affairs of a nation, even during normal times,
is that the producer, especially the primary
producer, should be fostered at all costs. This
principle being uppermost in the minds of
legislators—l repeat in normal times —must
ensure national prosperity. The moment the
community fails in assisting the primary pro-
aucer to make good, a period of adversity at
once becomes evident in every branch of com-
mercial and national activity.
, i A us^ rn^': ! is passing through an unprece-
dented period of depression which is world-
wide, and at least two sections of our pri-
mary producers are on the edge of the bread-
line. In many cases, stark ruin is facing
them, and particularly is this so with the
important wool industry. Suggestions have
been made and meetings held throughout Aus-
tralia with a view to doing something to
relieve the situation. The only obvious
remedy, the reduction of production costs, is,
unhappily, bitterly opposed by a section of
the community, who refuse to see that this
would react to their benefit as much as to that
or the wool growers. Let us examine the posi-
tl(?a r/° see there is a concrete way by
winch a tangible reduction in the cost of
production may be achieved. Is it possible
to get the rail freight costs reduced by a
Government department which is to-day
showing a deficit of millions sterling per
year ? \\ ould there be any saving of moment
effected by securing a reduction of steamer
freights on wool and other products sent
overseas. Is it possible to-day to secure a
marked reduction in the price paid for labor,
or will a reduction in the selling charges by
Hl e auctioneering houses effect a saving?
. °uld a reduction of one to two per cent,
in the rates of interest charged materially
assist us? These are all matters worthy of
serious consideration, and each or all of them
on a re-adjustment basis would help the most
important section of our primary producers,
ilie writer considers that an effective means
lies to our hands, and a very striking illus-
tration of the argument to lie put forward
was given during the B.A.W.R.A. regime.
After all is said and done the B.A.W.R.A.
was a. clear illustration of the value of co*
operative action, and it was responsible foi
the saving to the grazing industry of Aus-
tralia ot many millions sterling. It is worth
noting that had it not been for the action
taken by the big city interests, B.A.W.R.A.
would still have been in existence and ren-
aering splendid service to the country.
Australians are more or less of an opti-
mistic nature, and are looking forward in the
nope that wool will again come into its own,
but it will certainly not reflect to the credit
of a virile people if we are content to merely
sit down in the Micawberish attitude of wait-
ing for something to turn up in the way of
improved wool prices. It is essential that
every avenue be. explored that may lead to
improving the position of our graziers in the
meantime.
One of the greatest meat authorities in
the world —Mr. A. R. Ilassan, of London,
well known for his strong interest ‘in the
Australian trade —has recently stated that
Australia stood in the premier position as the
only country growing cattle and sheep that
is free from serious forms of disease. The
Argentine has suffered very heavily of late
with foot-and-mouth disease, and the same
scourge has given a lot of trouble and caused
heavy loss, in North America and Britain
itself, while South African herdsmen live
continually in dread of the rinderpest. Maori-
land, in the same position as ourselves in
the freedom from epidemic stock diseases, has
suffered like Australia by the fall in values
overseas, but has met the situation by increas-
ing exports. The result has been that the
extra money has more than made up for
the drop in prices.
If Australia is able, as has happened of
late, to beat N.Z. meat for price in open
competition at Smithfield—as in the recent
instance of the shipment of Victorian lambs
—surely it is not unreasonable to say that,
with hard and intelligent work and scientific
production methods, this country can secure
a market abroad that will bring in many
millions from an export trade that is to-day
m a perilous condition. The attention of
State and Federal Governments and the
interest of our banking institutions should
be drawn to the results obtained in New
Zealand from its system of Dominion-wide
co-operation among all sections of the pri-
mary producers. The control of the various pri-
mary products by the men on the land them-
selves has resulted in a highly satisfactory
state of affairs in that country. Primary
products of all descriptions are exported, but
the primary producers in Maoriland have
been successful in'having legislation enacted
that demands a strict inspection of any
primary product, and the law also prohibits
the export of any product which does not
come up to a set standard.
In the early days of meat export, both
Australia and New Zealand were able to
build up a profitable industry. To-day, while
New Zealand has consolidated its position
by co-operation and by insistence on a rigid
quality standard for export, Australia, which
has neglected to take similar precautions, has
slipped back badly.
The question of rigid examination and
grading is of paramount importance at Smith-
field, which is the hub of the meat world.
There is a system prevailing there which is
called a “quality survey.” Meat from Maori-
land and from the Argentine, which is as
meticulous as New Zealand in its insistence
on accurate grading for export, is seldom
submitted to this test. Both the New Zealand
product and the Argentinian are, in addition,
of much more even quality, conformation
and finish, and are, literally, “dressed to the
nines” in immaculate wrappings.
Unfortunately, much of the Australian
meat exported has not been presented in the
style its quality very often deserves. Much
worse than that is the fact that our slip-
shod method of inspection and so-called
grading, has caused infinite dissatisfaction to
London buyers. Most of these buy forward
in overseas supplies. With Maoriland and
Argentine deliveries they can be sure of
the nature of the stuff they have to take
over. Too often the Australian article is
submitted with other overseas meat to the
“quality survey.” The buyer requests this,
and he and the seller each appoint a repre-
sentative, neither of whom may have an
interest in the goods under discussion. After
examjnation the surveyors give their award,
and if there is disagreement an umpire is
appointed to settle the matter. If the meat
is not up to the standard of the sale, the
buyer has the right to an allowance, or to
invoice hack to the seller the portion objected
to at the market price of the quality of the
goods bought. If more than 20 p.c. is
assessed as being below quality the
buyer has the right to reject the ’whole
tender at the market price of the day, the
losing party in all instances paying the costs.
Surveys of this kind are more often called
for in times of falling prices, rather than
when there is an upward curve of Duying
When business_ is good buyers ar e more
lenient. AVhen it is bad it is the other way
about, and it is then that careless presenta-
tion and grading gets it in the neck.
There are other handicaps to the Aus-
tralian trade not of this country’s making.
Among these is the system prevailing in
Britain when tenders are accepted. If an
Australian firm secures a contract, and
delivers the goods to Government depots
dnect, it- can be assumed that Australian
meat is delivered. Too often it happens that
the contract is split up between large sun-
phers and others of much less important
calibre. This lends itself to abuse, and it
has happened more than once that meat other
than Australian is used to fill the contract
with resulting detriment to the reputation of
tne Australian article. With a sound grading
and marking system chicanery of the sort
would be impossible. In this respect it is
worth noting that Australian lamb and
mutton is often the medium of a similar
swindle being worked in the open market, our
best mutton and lamb being sold as “Can-
terbury”—the trade name for prime New
Zealand—and the poorest invariably labelled
as “Australian.” ITere again attention is
called to the necessity for prohibition of all
exports which do not conform to a high
standard, and the marking and grading of
those exports in a manner which will admit
of no mistakes and permit of no camouflage.
If Australia is going to compete on equal
terms with its chief rival to-day in the beef
market, the Argentine, it must 'adopt Argen-
tine methods. For some years past the South
Americans have been concentrating on the
production of the small young beast, which
is put on the market,, according to maturity,
at from 18 months to two years old. British
herds have been raked for stud cattle of
the types required until to-day there is almost
absolute uniformity in the thick-set, stocky
carcases shipped to Britain. The quality of
the article is enhanced by a system of inten-
sive feeding from birth. The Australian
system of letting the young beast grow up a
hag of skin and bones until lie is a couple of
years old or more, and then topping him up
by more or less rule-of-thumb methods finds
no adherents in the Argentine. Under such
h system it is. impossible to develop meat
that can rival in flavor and tenderness mat
produced by the artificial feeding in which
lucerne plays such an important part.
Animals coming on the market in Britain
and scaling lOcwt.—few with any pretensions
to finish go under 81 —will make from Bs. to
10s. per live-weight hundredweight than the
older beasts. The reason is that the butcher has
10 per . cent, more carcase and the extra
weight in the fine joints, showing that the
desire of the meat-eating public is for young
meat. With the 18 months to 21 years early
matured animal, the producer, butcher and
customer all reap the benefit. The producer
can carry on breeding stock, his holding will
carry more cattle and show him a quicker
and more profitable return for his outlay.
Compare this with the Australian grower sit-
ting down for at least four weary years
before his stock, as he sees it, are ready for
market. The butcher gets the benefit in
more carcases and fine meat, and the con-
sumer a joint that will keep its bulk, eat
w T ell, and show an economic return for the
outlay.
Another factor which gives the Argentine
its superior hold on the English market is its
comparative proximity to Europe compared
with that of Australia. As a result the
Argentine has specialised in the more popular
article of chilled meat as opposed to frozen.
Though successful small-scale experiments
have been made in sending chilled shipments
from Australia to to Britain, it is doubtful
whether the trade is likely under present con-
ditions to develop to the economical import-
ance of our frozen export—unsatisfactory as
that is to-day. Indeed it will probably pay
Australia better in the long run to concen-
trate on the frozen article. South America
still exports a fair quantity of this, but
except in the matter of “dressing” it is
doubtful whether it has ever scored over its
Australian rival. It should be remembered
that the prime Argentine product is chilled —
the not-so-good is the stuff that goes to the
freezers, and Australian meat is infinitely
superior in this class, though prestige and
good organisation has always brought a
fractionally better price in London for the
South American product.
Now the carrying of chilled meat incurs
more hazards than does the transfer of
frozen. It. requires much more care and
attention, .as well as much more space for
transportation, and that means higher freight
and insurance rates. Dependence on chilled
supplies for the meat requirements of
Britain has given the Imperial authorities
plenty of reason to think in the past. It
is giving them no less concern just at pre-
sent, and will probably continue to do so
in the future. The foot-and-mouth disease
outbreak in the Argentine and Paraguay has
added to the problem, for, it should be real-
ised, -butchered beef is capable of carrying
the infection, and Argentine meat has been
blamed for the recent disastrous outbreak
in Britain. The possibility that the con-
sumption of infected meat is affecting the
national health has been giving the British
authorities further concern, while the recur-
rence of the disease in Britain has ruined a
number of blood-stock breeders whose studs
have been compulsorily destroyed, with the
result that an industry to which the cattle-
producing countries of the world have always
looked for replenishment of their strains has
been seriously depleted. Chilled meat more-
over has yet another disadvantage. It has
nothing like the keeping quality of the frozen
product, and that counts for something on
a glutted market such as that which has
obtained in England lately. Another item
which should interest the Australian frozen-
meat exporter is the fact that less frozen
beef has been arriving in Britain of late,
with the result that there is practically no
reserve in the country to meet contingencies.
The solution of the disease problem is obvi-
ous. An increase of frozen-meat importa-
tions from uncontaminated sources within
the Empire, with regular shipments to make
good the withdrawals from storage, and thus
maintain the minimum reserve necessary in
Britain. At the same time the health of
the community and the stock themselves
would be safeguarded, as would -be the con-
sumer against his chief enemy under present-
conditions, . the buyer monopolists and the
numerous intermediaries who batten on pro-
ducer and consumer alike.
It is obvious that Australia must place
its chief reliance on freezing as opposed to
chilling. The South American position in
that regard is well in our favor. The Argen-
tine chilled meat will always be a dominat-
ing factor. That cannot be said of the
South American frozen supplies. Australia
should have a fine opportunity in the near
future to ship frozen meat to a market not
too well .supplied with similar goods of the
same quality. The demand is certainly
limited as things go at present, but the Aus-
tralian product should be in strongest de-
mand, and will probably become more so
with improved marketing methods
The British markets are, of course all
important, but there are others to which
Australian attention may be drawn, notably
the Continent of Europe. In some cases
fluctuation in exchange and tariff barriers
and restrictions as to quantity of import
have made business difficult. Germany’s
recent ban on the importation of frozen meat
from Australia lias been a bad knock-back
for the trade, this being due to recent Aus-
tralian tariff impositions on German goods,
and the fact that the German cattle herds
are now returning to their pre-war .strength.
Still, there is a demand for lean beef in
Italy and France, while super quality i.s not
so much insisted on as elsewhere. Light-
colored meat in small parcels is the desidera-
tum for this type of buyer. In general it
may be said that the Continent is eating
much more meat than before the war, and
there should be an opening here for a pro-
perly-organised trade.
In respect to mutton and lamb, the Em-
pire s contribution to the British markets
is much more satisfactory than it is with
beef, in spite of the fact that South America
has been increasing supplies at such a rate
as to give that country first place as a con-
tributor to the imported mutton requirements
of Britain. The good prices given for wool
some . seasons ago have helped the South
Americans, to this point, Australian growers
concentrating on wool production to the
detriment of mutton. As in the case of
beef, Britain asks for small, compact and
stocky carcases, the consumer’s insistence
on .small joints making size and weight of
carcase all important. For the retail trade
carcases of this description, representing a
minimum of waste and well finished—don't
forget that last —fetch the highest price. Con-
formation and grading of course counts for
much,, and here again . South America’s
attention to these marketing aids lias won
from Australia a lot of the trade once mono-
polised by this country. Continuity of
supply is another important factor aiding the
South American trade. This is one of the
factors for success on which Australia falls
down badly. The preference for the “blocky”
crossbred type of carcase has resulted in
these being singled out from a shipment of
equal quality in other respects consisting of
merinos and crossbreds mixed. This grading
to type means the realisation of from 2d. to
4d. per stone of 81b. more, and the trouble
involved is worth while. The attention of
Australian shippers and particularly those
of N.S.W., who are fond of these mixed con-
signments, might profitably be drawn to
this aspect of the trade.
Australia has for many years been the
Cinderella of the world’s meat trade. Any-
thing in the way of complaint is invariably
debited to this country, often without the
slightest justification. This is due to the
indifferent quality and get up of much of
the meat sent from Australia during the
war and for some time afterwards. If this
stigma is to be removed in the future only
infinite care in selection and grading will
succeed. Australian mutton is far superior
to its Argentine rival, in appearance and
eating qualities. If it was sold on its merits
by retail butchers in Britain it would com-
mand a much better market than it does.
Unfortunately, as. has been said already, it
is usually sold as the product of some other
country and at much higher prices than it
could command if retailed under its true
label.
If the foregoing has been rather lengthy,
it is because of an earnest desire to call
attention, to the shortcomings which have
resulted in the loss of much of what was
once a flourishing export trade. The lesson
is plain to read. Not only must the grazier
cull his flocks periodically and liberally to
produce the type and quality the overseas
markets demand, but the methods of pre-
paration and mai-koting at present prevailing
in this country will have to be thoroughly
overhauled. Culling and breeding up cannot
be entered upon by the average grazier in
N.S.W. or elsewhere unless he can be sure
of getting something back for his reject
stock. Under the present system prevail-
ing in N.S.W., to quote only one instance, of
marketing stock in the metropolitan market
in Sydney, this is out of the question to-
day, and it is obvious that a change of
policy is essential if the overseas markets
are to be of value to us.
We are supposed to be a thinking and pro-
gressive people. Yet—again taking N.S.W.
as an outstanding example—we deliberately
foster a system of railing all our stock hun-
dreds of miles to Sydney for the purpose of
slaughtering them. Even a' schoolboy knows
that such a system would not be tolerated
in any other part of the world. He would
tell you that it is more costly to rail live-
stock than to transport the chilled or frozen
carcases by the same method. He would be
very definite in his statement that it is
utterly impossible to market quality meat
under such transport conditions, the more
so because in the case of the N.S.W. system
the stock cannot be topped off with feed and
rest after arriving at the saleyards, but has
to be killed practically hot off the trucks.
Unless this antiquated system is cut out
and a system of country killing, followed by
the transport of the carcases to the consum-
ing or shipping centres adopted, there cannot
be much hope for the stock-raiser looking to
the meat market for a return on his capital
and labor.
. The establishment of sufficient country
killing works to economically treat all the
sheep and cattle in, say, N.S.W. would cost
something under a million sterling. These
establishments, owned and controlled by the
graziers and adopting the New Zealand
method of grading, would immediately give
to the city, consumer better-quality meat and
at a definitely lower price. It would also
ensure that the profits from the industry
would be returned in full to the individual
entitled to them—the raiser of the stock.
It would immediately stimulate the export
•trade and be of vital assistance to the thou-
sands of small mixed farmers who are having
such a bad spin these days. An organisation
attempting this national reform is at present
striving very hard to reach this objective.
It is the Australian Graziers’ Meat Company,
with headquarters at 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney, and the writer recommends every
Australian with his country’s interests at
heart to interest himself in the company’s
activities, and thus ensure that they are
crowned by success.
-A. W. Scott, Milong, Young.


i w
s "ja?
MIS
•*««9 r
W.
The finest leather
....lower-priced
Here’s one of Abbey’s smartest
shapes. . . .low-cut sides, squared
toe, and upper curved for easy, snug
accommodation of your foot s, instep
arch. Its sole is enduring and flex-
ible, made of the toughest leather.
This shoe is available in the finest
four leathers used. Prices have
been reduced.... assuring unsur-
passed high value.
ORDER BY POST
Every half-size is available in three
fittings—narrow, medium and wide.
That guarantees made-to-measure
comfort. Specify width and order,
also, the correct Abbey Polish, (6d.
per tin), or a complete cleaning
outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf 50/-
Glace Kid ...... 507-
Black Box Calf 47/6
Patent Leather 57/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” Sydney.
FPL 215.
RAYOVAC
Flashlights « RadioTubes
ELECTRIC TORCH
With the
ROTOMATIC SWITCH
The GREAT Battery Economist
The constant purchase of
batteries is due in no small
way to the light being turned
on accidenaltly....... The
ROTOMATIC SWITCH in-
sures you against waste of
batteries Always lights
when you want it
Positive prevention against
accidental battery discharge.
Manufacturer’s Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Vic.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.5.A. ~
K 3
Broken Hill is in High Spirits.
No Labor disputes there.
New agreement fixed for this year.
Exchange position all in our favor.
Minimum wage £4/10/- a week, and to stay
7/6 above the State basic wage right on.
Please address all the people through “The
Barrier Miner” if you have anything to sell.
Mine workers, business men, settlers,
All read “THE BARRIER MINER” every day.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to "know.
15he
PLUM
RAZOR
12/6
Post paid.
Strongly made grained-leather
hinged case provided free with
■A.
'mm iIiIBHBMMHwHi : £■s S»M
“PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths —fin. and fin.
Each Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
I V
ffgjgS-^4
ff ? S' 'j/"* 1
aErarasra^s^
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD
Fits any blade razor f, f, 5 inch size.
This guard permits the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, ensuring a thorough and com-
fortable shave,
2/9 Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
fd
ď
fd
ď
fd
ď
CAR DUST
COVER SHEET
as illustrated,
for
19/6
Made from strong, heavy
calico. Can also be used as a
shelter during picnics. Size,
13£ft. x 18ft.
All canvas goods are made in our own factory, and include
tents, auto tents, blinds, deck chairs, etc. Prices and particulars
will be sent on request.
Prices quoted are Melbourne Prices. Please add Freight or Postage for Country Oideis.
m
fyhej - BICCEST HARDWARE-HOUSE,, IN VICTORIA
• (D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.)
234-236 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE - - - F 4175 (4 lines),
276-294 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY - - - J 4145 (7 lines).
And at Ballarat, Bendigo, Wavrnainbool, Horsham and Portland, Victoria.
CULL TH'E EARLY MOULTERS.
“Jack Point”: There is no more trust-
worthy guide to a hen’s egg-laying capa-
bilities than the moult. If a hen that looks
healthy enough and is reckoned a good layer
sheds her feathers early, it proves that she
has either some constitutional weakness or
lacks the breeding which enables a first-class
bird to carry her feathers and keep laying
for an extra month or two when prices are
profitable.
Mark the birds which moult early with a
distinguishing band. Do not try to sell them
straightway unless you know of _ a good
market, because at moulting time the
markets ai*e generally glutted with culls;
but sell them at the first favorable oppor-
tunity. Also mark your good birds —those
which moult late —and be sure to breed from
them, and especially to mate them with the
son of a late-moulting hen. In this way the
average egg-production of the flock can be
improved without resort to specialisation,
such as trap-nesting, which should be left
to the breeder of stud stock.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
The number of tons of hay in a stack with
these measurements: width, 15 ft.; roof,
lift.; length , 101 ft. lOin.; wall, 10 ft. 9m.
And in another: width, IGft.; roof, lift.
3in. • wall, lift.; round cave, 125 ft.; length,
lift.? —1008. 4 . QO
No. 1 stack is estimated to contain 82
tons; No. 2 stack, 41 tons. But a few
remarks should be appended. In estimating
the quantity of hay in stacks, the number
of cubic feet of hay to the ton varies accord-
ing to the quality‘of the hay, to the period
that has elapsed .since stacking, and to
whether the hay is in sheaf or loose. _ These
particulars are not given. In computing the
tonnage of the two stacks it is assumed
that the hay is of fair average quality, in
sheaf, and that the measurements were taken
over a month after the stacks had been
built, and the hay had time for settlement;
it is assumed also that the dimensions given
as “roof” refer to the perpendicular height
from the eaves to the ridge.
(1) Fodder value of blue lupins for dairy
cattle? Are they suitable to our locality,
Collide Valley (Q.)? (2) Are honey sor-
ghum and saccaline good fodder for dairy
cattle? Arc they dangerous at any stage of
their growth? —l292.
(1) In Queensland lupins are regarded as
a dangerous food for stock. (2) All sor-
ghums are good for cattle, but have to be
used with great caution if fed before seed-
heads are formed.
A report of a competition held in
the Tweed-Richmond district ( N.S.W .)
mentions that the cattle were fed on “winter
paspalum and other concentrates.” Now we
grow paspalum in our South Aus. district
with our permanent pastures, and I want to
know what they mean by “winter paspalum .
Is it a species which grows in the winter?
1259. , • . *
Winter paspalum is the winter growth ot
the ordinary paspalum dilatatum. _ In the
competition referred to the grazing pro-
vided by paspalum during the winter was
supplemented by supplying the stock with
various concentrates.
At what intervals do a mare, cow and_ ewe
come in season; liow long do they remain in
season; and hmv long after giving birth to
offspring do they come in season again? —
1097
Depends on the general condition of _ the
animal; time of the year; whether it is a
good or bad season; food supply and water ;
condition of uterus; general health, and the
normal functioning of the ductless glands.
All things being equal, the mare comes on
in the spring, usually once in nine days,
and may remain on for five days. She
may also have this condition present
at other times of the year, but may not
remain on more than 24 hours. ie cow
comes on" from the 18th day to the 21st day
regularlv, and remains on for 24 hours, or
less She may come on 31 days after calving.
With' the ewe it is not safe to State how
long after lambing she comes into oestrum,
as there is a difference between the British
breeds and the merino and their crosses.
The British breeds are quiet and more docile
than the merino, which is much nearer the
natural wild animal, and therefore more de-
pendent on seasonal incidence and other con-
ditions. Artificial feeding may assist the
condition and prolong it.
(1) I cart dairy produce for farmers to
a Queensland railway station. Can I refuse
to carry goods likely to taint the dairy pro-
duce? (2) Is there an Act of Parliament
regulating the carriage of dairy produce?
(3) If so, where can a copy of the Act be
obtained? —1452. _ . „ ,
(1) Yes. (2) See Section 15 of the
Queensland Dairy Produce Act _ 1920. (3)
From the Agriculture Dept., Brisbane.
(1) Method of poisoning wheat for the
eradication of mice and birds? (2) A way
of ridding a house of rats? The best I know
is a carpet-snake, but the wife objects.
1289.
(i) Dissolve one-eighth of an ounce of soluble
sulphate of strychnine in a cupful of boiling
water, and pour it over a quart of wheat
which has been well dried. A two-quart jar
with a tight-fitting top may be used m pre-
paring the bait, as it can be shaken at inter-
vals until all the solution has been absorbed.
The bait should then be spread out to dry.
Scatter the poisoned grain in areas Avhere
it will be readily detected by the birds. 1 re-
baiting the area with unpoisoned grain in-
creases the chance of success. IN here there
is a danger of poultry or pigeons feeding on
the grain it may be protected with wire-
netting that will exclude them and still per-
mit birds to have access to the' grain. (2 )
Try poisoning with barium carbonate mixed
with flour—one part to three of flour. Mix
thoroughly while dry. then make into a sti
dough with water. Roll into a sheet about
a quarter of an inch thick, cut into half-
inch squares and dry thoroughly in the sun.
Place the baits at intervals in the places
frequented by the pests.
J want a few hints about picking grapes?
1465
Pick'when they are firm and sweet. The
bunches should be handled by the stalk end
so as not to rub the bloom; when this is
disturbed it detracts from the appearance or
the grapes, and prices are adversely affected.
The bunches should be allowed to cool
down before being packed, and all damaged
and small berries should be removed.
I am thinking of marketing my next citrus
crop overseas, and want some information
regarding the varieties to export, method of
packing, etc. ? —1450.
Write to the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, Melbourne, for Pamph-
let No. 7, “Export of Oranges.”
I have an idea of growing tobacco on my
N.S.W. farm, (1) Can a farmer manufac-
ture cigar, cigarettes, etc., on his own pre-
mises. ' (2) 'Where can I get some simple
literature on the subject? —l4sl.
- (1) Only under Customs control. Security
must be lodged with that, department and a
license to manufacture taken out annually.
(2) An excellent pamphlet on the subject can
be got from the Agriculture Department,
Sydney; write also to the Tobacco Investi-
gation Committee, Kurrajong House, Mel-
bourne,
llow to prepare arsenic solution for kill-
ing trees? Does it have any effect on the
ground about the tree? —1300.
Dissolve lib. of white arsenic and 31b. of
washing soda in a gallon of water; dilute to.
5 gallons. “Frill”-ring the tree by down-
ward cuts of an axe, thereby making a con-
tinuous frill or gutter around the trunk.
From an old teapot or similar utensil pour
the solution into the gutter. Used in this
manner the arsenic solution would have no
effect, but if any quantity was spilt the
toxic effect would show up in the. soil for
a season at least. The solution is highly
poisonous both to man and beast; therefore
great care should be exercised in handling it.
My saddle-hack, after apparently being in
good condition, died within 24 hours. Symp-
toms ivere vomiting, white fluid . from the
nostrils, thick and brownish urine; post-
mortem showed caul fat eaten away and caul
putrid, the bowels being filled with black
liquid. What caused death? —1421.
From the details supplied it is not possible
to' make a definite diagnosis; but probably
peritonitis was the trouble. If so nothing
could have been done to save the horse’s life.
How to keep weevils from hams and
bacon, and how to get them out of bacon
when they are in? —1205.
The guilty insect is known as the red-legged
ham-beetle ( JVecrolia rufipes). The only way
to prevent hams and bacon from becoming
infested is to wrap them carefully in material
that will make it impossible for beetles to
gain access. The utmost cleanliness and stor-
age of hams in a well-constructed room with
tight-fitting gauze-wire doors and windows
will do much in the way of prevention.
Once the meat is infested, the infested area
should be cut or scraped out cleanly and
destroyed. Treatment such as exposure to
a heat of ISOdeg. F. would kill the insects,
but they would still have to be removed.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“M.W.8.” : If erecting a home-made chaff-
cutter elevator of the belt type, with slats at
intervals, try cutting the slats out of old
motor-tyres. They will last longer than
wood, and, being pliable, give smoother run-
ning. They can be riveted securely to the
belt. Small tyres should be doubled, and
to avoid curling have the inside of the tyre
against the working surface.
“Yalleroi”: In my experience, trougliing
should be built in short lengths, say, 30ft. to
50ft., with a large delivery float valve, and
on clear ground-level if possible. Stock
coming in for a drink cause dust, to rise
and settle on the trough water, which after
a few days gets stagnant. Troughs should
be cleaned out as often as possible. Don’t
just, let the water out; stir the sediment up
and wash the sides, using broom or scrub-
bing brush.
“Hatter” : In England last summer three
men lost their lives through entering a silo,
partially filled, in circumstances favoring
the release of an unusual amount of carbonic-
acid gas. Any danger of this kind can be
avoided by observing two simple precautions:
(1) No door should be sealed up unless it
is certain that the silage will not sink below
the level of the bottom of it; (2) before work
is resumed the lowest open door should be
left open for a reasonable time to allow gases
to escape.
“K.M.E.” : A handy way of utilising sheep-
skins is to make rugs of them. A home-made
rug of this type won’t look as smart as a
bought one, but it will keep the cow as
warm and it costs nothing. Rugging the
cows in cold weather is always beneficial.
“Biro”: It sometimes happens that a cow
is blown and only the womenfolk are around
to attend to her.' Instead of trying to apply
tar to the root of the tongue (B. 21/1/’3l)
dab some on the cow’s nose. Renew it now
and again till she has belched up all the
troublesome gas.
“Bushby” : Protect your trees, and plant
a few more each year. If they are tall and
scraggy, lop and pollard them; thus you will
get firewood and added shade later. Prune
and look after your saplings and they will
pay you. When planting out, try long
shelter-belt lines against a dividing fence.
In a few years you’ll have shade in both
paddocks.
“W.R.” : When a field covered with herb-
age or a pea crop is to be ploughed in, work
a roller ahead of the plough and complete
the job with a single operation. With a
two- or three-furrow plough have a round
untapered log 3i feet long and about lOin.
in diameter. Drive bolts centrally at each
end for gudgeons, and above construct a
frame of 3in. by 2in. hardwood under which
the roller will turn. Attach the bridle of
the plough to the swinglebar with a six-feet
chain, from which leave a few links hanging
forward. These ure hooked to the roller
frame. Excellent work may then be done
with a minimum of labor. The roller flattens
the herbage, and before it can rise again
it is turned under.
“Roseworthy” : There is nothing better than
flowers of sulphur for body lice on fowls.
It must be dusted through the feathers so as
to reach the skin ; the treatment should be
repeated about the eighth day.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notice's are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, Sydney, served time as process en-
graver, wants job own trade or other. —1410.
1 oung man, Sydney, returned soldier, seafaring
and tropical exp., slight knowledge gold prospecting,
wants any sort of interesting • work.—l4ll.
Wanted, a lad leaving school, with knowledge
of country life, for mixed farm Riverina. Good
opportunity to learn wheat, sheep and dairy-
farming.—l4l6.
Man (50), active, wants job as cook, housekeeper,
anywhere in country, Yic. —-1455.
All-round rural worker, N.S.W., can drive motors,
tractors, horses, do general work, wants job farm
or station.—l43s.
To exchange for books by Australian authors
in first-class condition, modern novels.—l36s.
To buy gramophone record “Danse des Bacchantes, ’
by Gounod.—l39l.
To buy Havelock Ellis’s “Kanga Greek” (1922),
Bonwick’s “Last of the Tasmanians” and Australian
books dealing with the war. —1388.
To buy score of “The Belle of New York.” —1425.
Words of verse beginning “The outlaw of Glenidle
was a lady’s broken hack.”—l444.
Information Sought.
(1) Do Australian sculptors do their own
bronze casting? (2) If not, how and where
is it done? (3) Are there any examples of
Australian metal casting? —l342.
(1) Not as a rule. (2) It is possible to
have statuary cast in this country, but usu-
ally the sculptor does his work in plaster
and sends the plaster to Europe to be cast.
(3) The Geelong Grammar School mem-
orial group was cast in Melbourne.
Particulars of the Brisbane Repertory
Society’s play competition? —ll2s.
Plays must be submitted on or before March
31. Each must be an original work, written
in Australia by an Australian citizen ; never
publicly produced, and of sufficient length to
give at least a two-hour performance apart
from the interval. The winning play w T ill
remain the author’s property, but the society
will be entitled to produce it in Brisbane
without payment of royalties for a season of
not more than six nights on or before Sep-
tember 30, and he must not publish it before
then. The prize is 50 guineas. Plays must
be typed. Should the judges be of opinion
that all submitted fall short of the standard
required by the society, the prize will not
be awarded. All entries should be sent
to _ the president, Professor J. J. Stable,
University of Queensland, George-street,
Brisbane.
(1) Lowest speed at which aquaplaning is
successful? (2) Size of board required and
type of material? (3) How attached to
boat and at what distance from stern? —1369.
(1) From 15 to 25 miles per hour. (2)
Any size from 4ft. long; generally about 6ft.
by 2ft. by lin. thick. Light timber should
be used. (2) By a towing-rope, about 20ft.
to 30ft. long by 2in. circumference; only ex-
perience will determine correct length, which
varies according to speed and wash of boat.
The towing-rope is attached to board by
drilling a hole through centre of top end, or
by a separate rope made into a bridle by
boring a hole at each top side. The reins,
which are generally about 7ft. long, are fast-
ened through a hole at top end of board, one
at each side. A piece of mat or thick hessian
should be fastened across bottom of board to
stand on.
My boy (N.S.W.) wants to become a
chemist. _ What educational qualifications
are required before he can become appren-
ticed? Wages during apprenticeship, exams,
and prospects? —l4o6.
Before he can be apprenticed it will be
necessary for him to matriculate or to have
the N.S.W. leaving certificate. As an alter-
native there is the Pharmacy Board preli-
minary exam.; they are all about the same
standard. Prospects at the moment are not
bright. There are many registered chemists
out of work, and for most of those in busi-
ness trade is dull. And it is difficult to
‘place” apprentices; for example, Elliott
Bros., Sydney, have a number of lads on their
books. The term of apprenticeship is from
three to four years; the pay is 16s. per week
first year, 225. second year, 275. 6d. third,
575. fourth. Two years of the apprenticeship
are to be spent at the Uni., mornings only,
and several exams, have meanwhile to be
passed. At the end of the third year the
final pharmacy exam, is sat for, and if the
student passes and is aged 21 he automati-
cally becomes a registered chemist.
What sort of grass is recommended for a
golf course at Parramatta, and best method to
establish it? —1337.
Couch grass for summer, with Aqrostis
tenuis for winter grass when the ' couch
browns off. It might be advisable to estab-
lish a good couch grass turf from seed or
(preferably) roots, and then to surface sow
each autumn with Agrostis canina (creeping
bent), which will come away rapidly and
furnish the necessary growth during the cool
months. Where the summer heat is not ex-
cessive Agrostis canina is one of the very
best turf grasses for all-the-year-round work,
but it is rather doubtful whether the hot
summers of Parramatta would not be rather
severe; hence the suggestion of combining
it with couch. Apropos, the Arthur Yates co.
is about to publish a book on turf work and
turf grasses.
(1) What are the best species and when is
the best time to plant bulbs in Sydney? (2)
Kind of soil and position required? (3)
Any hints to help an amateur gardener? —
1402.
. (1) February and March is bulb-planting
time. In February set out amaryllis, an-
emone, babianas, ranunculi, nerines, lachena-
lias, ixias and vallottas; in March put in
freezias, daffodils and hyacinths; crinums,
callas and agapantlius can be planted at any
time of the year. (2) Light loam is the
best; where the soil is heavy add a
dressing of sand. Cow manure is very
beneficial to all types of bulbs. An
easterly position free from wind is
most suitable. (3) Keep the weeds down;
fix stakes to tall flowers; when cutting
blooms take the full stem length; if bulbs
are to be removed after the flowering is over
wait until the foliage has yellowed down,
then store them in a thoroughly dry place.
Be moderate with watering, to stave off rot.
A public park fronts my residence in
N. S. Wales. The council leased portion to
a miniature-golf concern, which installed a
wireless set with a loud speaker. The thing is
kept going till midnight, making sleep im-
possible. Have I any redress? The council
will take no action. —looo.
Try communicating with the council again,
pointing out that it has power under the
Local Government Act to “control and regu-
late the use of premises so as to prevent
objectionable noises thereon or noises thereon
at unreasonable hours”; and the power to
regulate includes the power to prohibit. If
the local body still refuses to protect you,
consult a solicitor as to your common-law
rights in the matter.
What influence have the Australian' forests
on the climate of the country? —l2l2.
Forests, especially in equatorial regions,
and during the warmest portions of the year,
considerably reduce the mean temperature of
the air. They also reduce the diurnal
extremes of shade temperatures, altering the
extent of radiating surface by evaporation
and checking the movements of air. By de-
creasing evaporation from the ground they
increase humidity. Vegetation greatly dimin-
ishes the rate of flow-off of rain and the
washing away of surface soil. When a
region is protected by trees a steadier water
supply is ■ ensured and the rainfall is better
conserved. In regions of snowfall the supply
of water to rivers is similarly regulated';
without such protection and the sheltering
influence of ravines and gullies watercourses
supplied mainly by melting snow would be
subject to alternate periods of flooding and
dryness. This is borne out in the case of
our inland rivers—the Murray, for example.
It has never been known to become dry.
(1) What is the Gulf Stream? (2)
Where does it start? (3) What is its
course? —l32s.
(1) A strong ocean current, moving at
the rate of 80 miles per day in the Atlantic.
(2) Gulf of Mexico. (3) Along the eastern
coast of North America, northerly, to New-
foundland.
I want particulars of a brownish reptile,
about 2ft. long, I killed. It hadn’t any legs,
the long head was pointed , and it had a
white band down each side. Was it a snake
or a _ lizard ?■ —1299..
It’s the lance-head lizard ( Lialis bur-
tonii), common in Australia and Papua.
I have been reading a good deal about
France being a heavy gold buyer in London.
(1) Why not other nations? (2) How is
payment made? (3) Why doesn’t the Bank
of England also hoard gold? —l3l9.
(1) Presumably because they don’t see
any profit in it. (2) By selling goods or
bonds abroad. (3) Because there is no profit
in locking up vast hoards of gold in vaults.
The £ English is worth par;' which shows
that the holding of gold is sufficient.
What is the difference between a “paying
guest” and an ordinary boarder? —1326.
No difference commercially or legally.
(1) Do babies in Rabaul wear woollen
underclothing? (2) What would constitute
a suitable layette for a baby in that dis-
trict?—lo94.
(1) Cellular cotton or aertex is preferable
to woollen garments, for the latter bring on
prickly heat and cannot be boiled. (2)
Cellular or aertex undershirts; voile or mus-
lin petticoats and frocks; a wrapper of
vyella or nun’s veiling or a very fine Shet-
land shawl; a mosquito-net of the finest mesh
for cot, and a playrug.
Best bait to use in fishing for (1) the
estuary perch, and (2) the groper; and a
few hints as to best method of capture? —
1211.
(1) In spring and summer crickets and
grasshoppers, the hook being suspended near
the surface. During the colder months
the hook should be dropped close to
the bottom, the most successful baits
at that time being prawns, worms and
the larvae of wood-boring beetles. This
perch will also take a fish bait or an arti-
ficial fly. When, on the approach of winter,
they go to the mouths of the streams, in
which they live, they can be caught in nets.
(2) Crabs, though cunjevoi and many
species of shell-fish found on the rocks are
successfully used. When using crab as a
bait it is usual to wrench legs and shell off
the back, and cast them out for burley. The
body is then secured on the hook with a piece
of thread or flax. When the fish is hooked
care must be taken to keep it from the caves
and crevices which it at once makes for,
and this is not an easy matter, for a large
specimen requires skilful playing, and when
once concealed it is a difficult matter to
dislodge it.
What sort of food was the Biblical manna
and what is the scientific basis for the Old
Testament story ? —1250.
According to Drs Bodenheimer and Theodor,
of the Hebrew Uni., Jerusalem, it was what
is known in other countries as “honey-dew,”
a sweet secretion of plant-lice and scale-
insects. Two scale-insects mainly responsible
for the production of manna were found by
these investigators. The dry climate causes
the. excreted fluid to crystallise, and the
whitish grains thus produced cover the
branches or fall to the ground.
Can you give me some hints on windoic-
box gardening? (1) How to make the boxes,
and the best wood to use? (2) Suitable
floicers? —1273.
(1) Your window should have an easterly
outlook, protected from boisterous souther-
lies and hot westerlies, If the window-sills
or parapets are curved the boxes should be
made of sheet-iron and soldered. For straight
work one-inch dressed hardwood is most
suitable, with a binding of hoop-iron on the
ends and around the middle of the boxes.
Allow plenty of drainage holes, which must
be placed so that surplus water will be
carried away from the walls of the building.
Before filling in the soil place a layer of
broken stones or crocks to help filtration.
(2) Geraniums and pelargoniums are mostly
used ; and annuals such as phlox drummondi,
asters, pansies, Iceland poppies, lobelia, and
snapdragons make a bright show. To pro-
duce a draping effect on high walls, aspara-
gus-fern and nasturtium can be used, but it
is preferable to grow them in pots and place
them in the boxes; this will enable them to
be shifted, if desired, to alter the design
without destroying the plants.
A brief outline of the Treaty of Brest-
Litovsk? —ll34.
Lenin suggested an armistice of all bellig-
erents in November, 1917, and Germany and
Austria-Hungary accepted the proposal.
There was a conference, the results of which
were unimportant. In February, 1918, Ger-
many denounced the armistice and recom-
menced hostilities against Russia. In March,
1918, the Peace of Brest-Litovsk was signed
and ratified by the Soviet on terms that
divested Russia of three of her southern pro-
vinces, which were ceded to Turkey, and gave
the Central Powers important commercial
rights in Soviet territory. The subsequent
complete defeat of the Central Powers nulli-
fied these arrangements.
What are the Nobel Prizes? Who estab-
lished them, and who awards them? What
are they worth? —1157.
The Nobel Prizes are awarded from the
income of a fund bequeathed to trustees for
distribution annually to those who have con-
tributed most largely to the common good,
and divided into five shares. These arc
devoted to workers in the domains of (a)
physics, (b) chemistry, (c) medicine or
physiology, (d) literature, and (e) the pre-
servation of peace. The testator was the
Swedish scientist Alfred Nobel, the inventor
of dynamite, who died in 1896 leaving a for-
tune of about .£1,750,000. The first awards
were distributed on the fifth anniversary of
Nobel’s death, Dec. 10, 1901. The awarding
authorities are (a) and (b) the Swedish
Academy of Science, (c) the Stockholm
Faculty of Medicine, (d) the Swedisli
Academy of Literature, and (e) a commit-
tee of five persons elected by the Norwegian
Storthing. Each prize is worth about £6500.
(1) What are the varieties of asparagus
fern? (2) The best or any novel way to
grow them? (3) Can they be grown from
seed? —1149.
(1) Plumosus nanus (very fine leaf),
Sprengeri (coarse leaf) and Tenuissimus
(fine leaf). (2) They are hardy and can be
grown in open gardens, or (in buslihouse or
conservatory) in big pots or hanging baskets.
(3) Yes. The seed should be gathered after
the flowering has died.
(1) Is the Spanish spoken in Mexico and
South America substantially different in
grammar, pronunciation and vocabulary from
ordinary Spanish? (2) Any books on the
subject? —lls6.
(1) Same as regards grammar, and read
and written the same as in Spain, but the
pronunciation is somewhat different, “ci”
being phonetical, while “11,” as in “Calle,” is
not rolled but slurred. The vocabulary is
slightly varied in some South American re-
publics, and certain words used in Argen-
tina have a different meaning on the Pacific
coast. (2) Don’t know of any.
(1) Can peanuts be imported into Aus-
tralia? (2) Quantity and value of peanuts
imported into N.S.W. last year? (3) Chief
country of origin? (4) Do shipments arrive
regularly throughout the year? (5) Who are
the chief importers of peanuts? (6) Price
per pound landed in Sydney and duty? —99o.
(1) The consent in writing of the Minister
of Customs must be obtained. (2) For year
ending Dec. 31, 1930, 493.0921 b., valued at
£4253. (3) China. (4) Yes. (5) Mostly
Chinese firms. (6) per pound landed
in Sydney, plus 4d. per pound duty and 4
per cent, primage duty.
Can you tell me something about the violin-
ist Vasa Prihoda, recording for Edison? —
1152.
He is a young Czechoslovakian, the pro-
tege of Toscanini, the celebrated Italian
conductor. After a series of concerts in the
principal Italian cities and in South America,
Prihoda went to New York in November,
1920. Leading musical critics credit him
with perfect technique, a tone with a peculiar
searching quality, and a style that is dis-
tinctive and ingratiating.
(1) How did Sir Roger Casement earn
his knighthood? (2) What brought about his
execution ? —970.
In 1910, charges of cruelty having been
brought against the agents of the Anglo-
Peruvian/ Amazon Co.i, operating in the
region of the Putumayo, a tributary of the
Upper Amazon, Casement, then British
Consul-General at Rio de Janeiro, was com-
missioned to inquire into them. The re-
sult of his investigations was published in a
Blue Book in 1912, and public opinion was
deeply shocked by the evidence it contained of
the appalling atrocities committed on the
natives employed in collecting rubber. For
this service he was knighted. (2) He was
charged with high treason. In U.S.A. he
appealed for an Irish-German alliance;
also he visited Germany and tried to under-
mine the loyalty of Irish soldiers who were
prisoners of war. In 1916 he sailed from
Germany in a submarine to Ireland, just
before the Easter rising. The submarine,
which was loaded with arms and ammuni-
tion,' was captured by the British. Case-
ment escaped, but was caught three days
later.
Brief Answers.
Lachorpan: Can’t find any record of your
14ft. Irish giant. The “Encyclopaedia Britannica”
says that Maehnow, a Russian, exhibited in London
in 1905, was 9ft. 3in. in height and weighed 25st.
101 b. Charles Byrne, an Irish giant, whose skeleton
is preserved by the Royal College of Surgeons,
London, was Bft. 4in. high G.H.G.G.: Canada
paid the expenses of all her troops in the Great
War; South Africa footed the cost of the S.-W.
Africa campaign. No “ground rent” was paid by
Australia for trenches in France. A considerable
proportion of the profits made by the British Govern-
ment on Australian produce was refunded to the
producers. It is true that substantial remissions
were made by Britain to France and Italy in re’spect
of war debts—but don’t forget that both those
countries were invaded.... W.C.S.: Chrome steel is
one of the alloy steels; its value for special
purposes requiring intense hardness with a high
elastic limit is owing to its containing about 2
per cent, of chromium and up to 2 per cent, of
carbon. The process of manufacture is set out in
the “Encyclopaedia Britannica,” which can be seen
at Vic. Public Library, Melbourne, under “Iron and
Steel”... .D.F.: Home-made preparations are seldom
satisfactory. Plenty of good paint and varnish removers
are on the market.... S.L.: Do not use soap. Clean
your skin with olive oil and apply unguentum
lassar three times per day....W.G.8.: Bibbenluke,
big lookout; Kobada, place on a hill; Warrawong,
hillside; Yuruga, extensive view... .8.L.: Let us
see some of your work and we will advise y0u....
H.E.S.: See “The Moratorium Act,” by Tebbutt (55.),
Law Book Co., 140 Phillip-street, Sydney... .11.5.:
Particulars from the Registrar of Sydney Uni
J. : Liable to persons legally on the land, but
not to trespassers, such as drovers... .W.H.D.: You
are bound by the agreement. If your employer has
collected any moneys on which you are entitled to
commission, you can sue him. See a solicitor....
R.K.H.: Not unless you are the inventor or have
some legal right to patent the article... .J.W.K.M.:
Time for payment of principal is extended: to 1933.
They can claim interest, but not principal....
8.D.: (l) Tie up hams and bacon in stout
bags made of unbleached calico. When emptied,
wash and boil before using again. (2) Quite impos-
sible to get them out when once well in. Heating
will cause many of them to rush out, but would
make the bacon rancid. Best way is to keep them
out from the start... .P.8.W.: See G. S. Brown’s
“Education in Australia” (London, 1927) ; also
annual reports of the various State Departments of
Education and the chapter on Education in the
C’wealth “Official Year Book” J.P.: The N.S.W.
coal strike commenced on March 2, 1929. The
Federal Labor Party promised to settle the dispute
within a fortnight after its return to office in
October of the same j r ear, but the strike continued
for another seven months. Work was resumed in
June, T 930, on reduced rates of pay, viz., 121 p.c.
cut on hewing rates and 6d. per day on daily rates.
. ...J.J.R.: Gwen Ffrangcon-Davies played the part
of iilsie in Arnold Bennett’s “Ricevman Steps” when
the play was produced in London in 1926. .. .
K. : Commonwealth ■ estate duty is not payable
on bequests for religious, scientific or public
educational purposes in Australia, or to a
public hospital or public benevolent institution, or
for the relief of persons in necessitous circum-
stances in Australia. .. .A.M.S.: Barbara Baynton
was born on the Hunter River (N.S.W.) in 1862,
but lived in England for many years. Her maiden
name was Kilpatrick, and she married three times,
her second husband being Dr. Thomas Baynton and
her third Lord Headley, whom she married in 1921.
She died in 1929... .E.N.: Grind crystallised potas-
sium chlorate to a fine powder, mix with sugar and
pour one or two drops of sulphuric acid over the
stuff by means of a fountain-pen filler.... N.Q.:
Coat it with granulated cork. Apply a coat of
paint, and while it is still wet spray the cork on.
Another and more satisfactory method is to equip
the roof space with ventilators, so that heated air
may escape... .L. 0.: (1) Members of the corn
section of the Adelaide Chamber of Commerce
are elected annually at the meeting held each April.
(2) Wheatgrowers have no representatives on the
corn section... .H.J.D.: (1) and (2) Not grown
commercially in Q’land and doubt whether worth
trying, as only a comparatively small market exists.
(3) Don’t know of any. (4) Try H. Franke, Caw-
dor ; J. Donger, Oakey; and H. Dippel, Middle
Ridge, Toowoomba —all Queensland. .. .A.0.N.: (1)
By making application to the Patent Office, Mel-
bourne, using the forms prescribed; but the wisest
cours.e is to put the business in the hands of a
patent attorney. (2) The C’wealth Patent Office
deals only with applications for C’wealtli patents.
In any other countries applications have to be made
through persons resident there.’. .A.F.: It is quite
possible that a shock such as a clap of thunder or
the slamming of a door might affect the young’
canaries in the eggs before hatching. Again, if the old
birds are not sitting closely, the young ones may-
be weak as a result. Special feeding, when young,
will influence the coloring of the plumage. Feed-
ing on red chillies and red maize will make the
plumage darker in c010r... .M.M.: Enlistment in
the British Army can only be effected in Britain.
Communicate with the Secretary, War Office, White-
hall, London, 5.W.1... .G.J.L.: (1) Write Home
Affairs Dept., Canberra. (2) See list of island
traders in “Sands’ N.S.W. Directory.” (3) and
(4) Write Dolamore and Doig, 422 Little Collins-
Street; or G. S. Anderson, 360 Collins-street —
both Melbourne. (5) No; vacancies occur very
rarely and the cos. generally have a large waiting
list to draw on. (6) Not unless you have a job
beforehand. (7) French Consul, Sydney... .N.M.: El
Obeid is a town in the Ivordofan province of Anglo-
Egyptian Sudan... .C. 8.: The process is too com-
plicated to describe here. The Country Lending
Branch of the N.S.W. Public Library, Sydney, should
be able to lend you books on the subject... .R.D.:
(1) “The Writer” (monthly, 6d.), 34 Paternoster-
row, London, E.C.4. (2) “The Writers’ and Artists’
Year Book” (Black, London), obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney. ss. 3d C.L.N.: You
will have to satisfy the Invalid Pensions Dept, that
the disability was contracted in Australia and that
it is both total and permanent. .. .E.M.8.: (l)
Couldn’t say without inspection. Any second-hand
dealer or scientific instrument maker would value
it for you. (2) We are in touch with the Taxation
authorities about it. (3) Chief Veterinary Surgeon,
Agriculture Dept., Brisbane, could tell y0u....
T.F.D.P.: Write International Correspondence Schools,
140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.... J.K,.: The Nepean
River above Wallaeia would be a good place for
boating and swimming; there is also a hit of fishing
(perch and eels) and shooting (rabbits). The
Upper Colo River offers similar facilities for
campers. .. .0.W.T.: Leaks should be located and
covered with patches giving plenty of margin,
stitched inside and out. Then erect the tent, and
paint it with any good waterproof oilskin dressing
(black or clear), procurable from paint stores at
about 15s. per gallon. This is quicker and better
than pottering with home-made recipes. .. .G.J.L.:
You should have communicated with the Assistant
Paymaster-General, Supreme Court Pay Office,
London (Many others mailed.)


ASK THE MAN
WHO’S BEEN THERE—
And he will tell you that the finest holiday
he ever had was at Nit. Buffalo National '
Park— Victoria’s “Garden of the Gods.”
Wide-flung views of mountain and valley, a great granite plateau with tre-
mendous precipitous walls, deep ravines and yawning cliffs, clear mounta n
streams and deep, placid lakes-these are some of the features which cause
those who have once visited Mt. Buffalo to return there year after year.
Excepting the Christmas period, when rather higher rates
operate, the tariff at The Chalet during the summer
and autumn is only 15/- per day for weekly vacationists. ,
Book at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Martin Place, Sydney, or
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne, or else get in touch direct with the manager
The Chalet.
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this dimcmty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales ao ®j"
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to:—
9g PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
L N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and __
Agency Co., Ltd. ’.as
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis : The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Banton, N. 8.
Wales, west of the Blue Mountains,
where Dr. Gherardi, an Italian poli-
tical exile, has settled with his wife
and son, and is establishing a practice.
As yet he does not understand the
people very well, and his difficulties
are increased by the local matron, a
good woman but incompetent, and by .
the fretfulness of his uiife, who accom-
panied him to Banton against his
wish, but who now, he feels, is making
no effort to adapt herself to his cir-
cumstances. She bitterly resents his
having lost, in gold-mine speculation,
the money that might have taken them
back to Italy, but when lie offers to
send her back and support her there
she will not hear of it. Dr, Gherardi
takes consolation from the thought
that he will not stay in Banton very
long, and his wife tries to accustom
herself to the situation by meeting the
local social leaders. She creates a
sensation among them on her first visit
—a tennis-and-tea meeting—by admit-
ting that she doesn’t keep any ser-
vants.
Chapter 111 {Continued).
DIRE and unspeakable outrage! The
wife of Banton’s doctor doing her
own housework, not because she
could not find good servants—one could
understand that—but because they cost too
much! Sigh for this woman’s predecessor,
so cultured and charming, who knew what
was due to her husband’s position and had
a cook and a parlormaid, and changed them
more often than any other woman in
Banton! The minister’s little wife was
utterly routed.
And then Teresa was left to her loneliness.
With bleak eyes she watched the progress of
the game, and her brooding contemplation
of the incomprehensible flight and reclaim
of the balls was such as might have been
bent upon a sad, dreadful mystery.
A half-hour passed. She still sat, defying
ail genuinely kind efforts to provoke her
interest. A dull pain grew in her, a sense
of her failure, her defeat. She had done
something wrong, said something wrong, had
proved utterly inadequate. But what?
After a time she got up and went across
to Julia, who rose and held out her hand
agreeably.
“Must you go? I’ll come to the gate
with you, my dear. I do hope you’ve
enjoyed yourself.”
“Yes, please,” said Teresa, praying that
the tears would not start from her foolish
eyes before she had turned her back to
these people.
“And you’ll come again, won’t you? If
you don’t come again we’ll think that you
don’t like us!” Her tinkle of laughter
ridiculed the idea of such an absurdity. One
thing about Banton, they could be trusted
for hospitality to the stranger within their
gates. Visitors from other towns always
said that.
“Bert, run in and get Mrs. Gherardi’s
basket. It’s on the table. Come earlier next
time, Mrs. Gherardi, and bring your cakes
in time for tea!”
“Yes,” said Teresa. She took the basket
with its burden still untouched beneath the
white cloth, and with nods and a smile she
turned away. Round the wire-netting en-
closure, one side, two sides, up the road.
(3)
The front doorbell was ringing violently.
Teresa dried her hands on her apron before
she untied it and cast it on a chair. The
wire door of the kitchen clanged behind her.
“I come, I come,” she muttered impatiently
as the bell rang again.
It was growing dark outside, but the hall-
lamp showed her the face of old Gustav
Schultz. His smile made a yellowish-white
division, a fence dividing the growth of
moustache and beard.
“You want doctor?” said Teresa without
any answering smile. .
“Yes, please. He iss home?”
“Not yet. Soon ’e will be ’ome. You
wait in surgery?”
Schultz followed her into the gloomy,
small, unlighted room which smelt of iodo-
form, of ink, of old books. Teresa, fumbling
with matches, could hear the heavy breath-
ing of the old man.
The man’s smile was unchanged, and had
persisted, one thought, through the interval
of invisibility. He sat down, choosing the
capacious armchair, and lowered his black
bowler hat from his hands to his knees.
Teresa went towards the door, but as she
reached it Gustav addressed her in his gut-
tural voice, whose apparent ferocity dis-
guised real amiability.
“Well, Madame, you are settled down
and like better der town now, yess?”
Teresa turned slowly, unwillingly, fixing
her sombre eyes on him. She did not like
Schultz. She feared and distrusted him and
resented his specious arguments in favor of
the new country, arguments retailed to her
by Leo as an instance of success achieved
by an alien.
“D’ town is very nice,” she said coldly.
“Dat iss right, dat iss right,” said Gustav
approvingly, nodding his head with vigor.
“Banton grow. It grow very fast, Der price
of land it go up. Dat mean growth. Ven
first I come, Madame, der land dey gif you
for few shillings an acre. Now you pay
pounds instead of shillings. Dat iss very
good because I bought mooch land when
it vas few shillings, eh?” The joke of
that was too much for him. His fat face
creased with his silent laughter, his small,
keen eyes disappeared in. the rolls of fat.
Then suddenly, as though turned off by a
tap, his laughter ceased, his eyes reappeared
keen, almost ferocious in their earnestness.
“But, Madame, der price now iss little
compare vid der price in few more year.
Now iss der time to buy. Anybody got
any money, I say to dem, buy der land, and
keep on buy like me. Addin’ to it, alvays
addin’ to it.” Again his beard shook. His
eyes grew cunning. They seemed very
dreadful to Teresa. A little fear took root
in her. Like a wild creature she sensed
danger, and she lashed out at that menace.
“Doctor ’e might not come for long time.
You go, come back to-morrow morning?”
“I do not mind to vait, Madame. I have
der pipe. I vill smoke vun pipe, and if he
not come I go, and see some odder time.
It vas little business proposition I vant
to see him about.”
Happy because of the consciousness of his
kindness to these young people, he glanced
at her; but that warm, radiating benevo-
lence carried the scent of the enemy to
Teresa’s pricking nostrils.
“I am not sick man, Madame,” said
Gustav. Proudly, fiercely, he slapped his
strong chest. “Nodding wrong vid dis old
body. Doctor vunce, twice in my life. Plenty
hard vurk better dan doctor, yess. No,
you do not tink dat! No good for you
doctor’s vife to tink dat, yess!” His en-
joyment of the joke was none the less
keen because she did not share it. “Veil
I tell you. I am no goot to doctor as
patient, no goot at all, but as friend I am
very goot, yess. He come here like me,
foreigner, not mooch money, yess? I come
here vid nodding, nodding you might say.
But I look ahead, yess. I take up land.
I do like my faders, I become farmer. My
gold iss the wheat gold. At first I ’ave
little land, den more. Addin’ to it. Keep
on addin’ to it. Now I have ten dousand
acres. Very goot, yess?” He sat back in
his chair complacent.
“We do not want land. We do not stay
’ere,” said Teresa. Her eyes were wide,
the eyes of the hunted creature. “My
’usband ’as no money to buy land. E
is doctor. ’E does not know the farming.
’E stay ’ere little while, dhen go back to
Italy.”
Blandly the old man regarded her as
he would have regarded a child. Women,
Gustav thought, were useful creatures, if
you knew how to direct their labors.
Gretel, now, had been like this one. Always
thinking of home, of Germany. Women
did not, like to be uprooted. They were
without vision, without the power of
rendering vision into actuality. Well, that
was right. In the constructive business
women were not necessary. The woman
was the instrument of nature, and one does
not supply reason to an instrument. “My
husband is not a farmer,” she had said.
Well well. Women did not see very far.
“You do not bodder your head vid dese
t’ings, -yess?” he said, nodding kindly, as
having deposited his hat carefully on the
floor he proceeded to stuff tobacco into his
pipe. “You are too busy vid der baby.
You leave all der foolishness of business to
der men, eh?” His glance was tolerant,
affectionate even. They were good, brave
creatures, these women, despite their limi-
tations. His Gretel, the old mutter, had
been like this young one frightened of
the things she could not understand, aghast
at the daring of her man. But she had
clung to him and worked for him, stamping
round, pecking round, like the mother bird,
until she had made the strange nest a
replica of the nest she knew and remem-
bered. He, Gustav, would help these two.
He would help the young doctor, show him
how to respond to the generosity of this
most generous of countries, Australia.
“I do not t’ink doctor come for long
time,” said Teresa desperately; but even
as she spoke she heard the back door slam
and Leo come tramping along the hall.
He divested himself* of hat and coat, and,
without waiting for Teresa’s answer to his
hurried “Who is there?” went past her
into the surgery. The door closed. Teresa,
shut out, could hear her husband’s greet-
ing and the old man’s laugh. That laugh
sent her into stinging, searing petitions to
the Mother of God, to whom all things
were possible, even the confounding of a
meddling German and the preservation of
the precious three hundred pounds.
Time passed. An unendurably long time,
it seemed to Teresa. Supper was cooked
and spoiling on the stove. Still no sound
of movement from the front room. She
put her ear to the door. She could hear
her husband’s voice, but could not under-
stand what he was saying. At last, made
courageous by desperation, she knocked on
the door. Leo opened it.
“Yes?” he said abruptly. “What do you
want?”
“I have supper ready. It spoils. Will
you come soon?” she asked, her voice low
and shaky.
“It can wait, it can wait,” said Leo im-
patiently. His eyes were bright, his whole
expression animated, as she had not seen
it for a long time. “You and Dino eat.
I will come directly. I am busy,” and he
shut the door.
“What I was saying,” he commenced as
he took his seat again in the swivel chair—
“oh, yes,” and he leaned forward, fixing
his glowing eyes on the silent, interested
Schultz.
“We took risks, but strange, my down-
fall was not through any risk. I was a
victim of circumstance. I got my diploma
and entered the Medical Military School
of Firenze, and after a. year was
Officer of Cavalry at Gallarate in Lom-
bardy. I hated the forced military life
and kept in touch with the revolutionary
party. I was disgraced at Gallarate and
transferred to Milan. A friend of mine, an
officer, committed suicide by swallowing a
pastille of corrosive sublimate! There was
a military inquiry. The reason of his
suicide had been the persecution of his
captain. I was against the captain, so got
into bad odor. They began to watch me
after that. But look you, now—how the
strings of Fate reach all over the earth!
A youth gambling in wheat in Chicago was
responsible for this big change in my life.
Imagine it!”
Old Schultz sat bright eyed, immovable.
“An attempted corner of wheat sent the
price sky high, and Italy, living on imported
wheat, felt the pinch. In June, 1898, there
was a revolution all over Lombardy and
it was declared stato d'assedio. One night
I heard the officers talk of shooting on
sight, Filippo Turati, the editor of ‘La
Critica le Sociale.’ I went to the office
of ‘La Critica’ and told Turati to watch his
step, as they say here. I must have been
watched. Next day I was transferred to
Brescia. The General Commandant re-
ceived me and told me to be ready for
the worst, and sent me to a room in the
local hospital, with sentinel at the door.
You can imagine my fright. They were
making short work of any connected with
the revolution. I lost my head. Youth
does not like the prospect of shooting, eh?
So I escape. For a year I dodge about.
But I had very little money. I could do
nothing. Thejr had sentenced me to twelve
years of gaol. I come to Australia—it
seemed most secure, the end of the earth.
And I’d heard it was easy to make money
here. My intention it is to save enough
to get a pardon. It can be bought with
money.” He leaned back in his chair. For
a time there was silence.
“Veil, dat it vas,” said Gustav, reflec-
tively. “I had t’ought something like dat,
my friend.” He paused, then added, his
keen old eyes darting like torchlights over
the brooding face before him. “You are
determine to go back, yess?”
“Of course I will- go back,” said Leo
heavily. In the moment which had elapsed
between the asking and the answering of
the question he seemed to have lost the
animation produced by his narrative. “Of
course I go back. What would you have
me do? Stay for the rest of my life in
this little town?” The idea was absurd,
yet his derisive laughter held a hint of
irresolution, a request for confirmation.
The old man drew steadily at his pipe.
“Veil, I vas like you once. I vould have
laughed as you laugh if anybody had said
to me, ‘Gustav, in thirty years you vill
be still here.’ Yet I am here. And Ido
not regret. No, my friend, I do not regret.
I am rich. I am content. I have fine
sons who farm der land I have given to
dem. Dey are Australians. Dey do not
sigh for Germany. And I do not want dem
to sigh for Germany. Vhere dey must
live and work, I think it right should be
deir hearts. My grandchildren, dey know
Germany only as a name. If I vas young
man over dere, perhaps like you I want
to be saviour of der people. But now
I am not young man and I am in Banton.
I am sorry for der German people burden
vid taxation. Once I vould have destroy
if I could der Agrarian Junker who rejoice
at der high price of food; now I try if I
can to get good price for my wheat. Dat
iss what concern me! lam more interested
in der Shire election here dan in der Reich-
stag.... Veil, ve ’ave talk mooch and
say noddings. Look, I tell you how to
make some money. Dat iss vy I come.
Sammy Pyson vill put his place for auction.
Two t’ousand acres. I have mind to buy.
It iss near me. How about if you take
share, yess? My son Albert iss old enough
to manage. Or else ve buy as spec. Ve
can get der land for two pound few shilling
an acre. It iss goot land, very goot. Soon
it vill be vurt four pound. Twenty year
perhaps eight, perhaps ten pound. Goot
for your boy,. eh?”
Leo smiled and shrugged his shoulders.
“I have only few hundred pounds. That
is not enough. I am afraid I can do no-
thing. Besides, you forget I will be here
only a short while. I hope to go back in
a year or two. I do not intend to settle
in Australia. And when I go I will need
money. I could not afford to tie it up in
the land.”
Gustav leaned forward. “But let us sup-
pose you do not go back as soon as you
dink. Yess, yess”—at the other’s dissent-
ing movement —“I know dat. But ve joost
suppose, yess. I tell you vot it mean to
you to buy der land now.” And in pene-
trating sentences he sketched the roseate
results of investment.
Some of his ardor was communicated to
Leo, sufficient to make him remark, when
he joined Teresa in the dining-room, that
it was a pity they had so little money,
There was much to be said for this land
investment. He scarcely noticed her sullen-
ness and sat down automatically at • the


The Paper you should first select in Queensland for any Advertising
Campaign is-
The “Daily Mail ”
BRISBANE
Results count, and in Queensland the “Daily Mail” is demon-
strating its supremacy in this respect every day. The “Daily Mail”
is one of Brisbane’s two morning papers, and although more than
50 years younger than its contemporary, its net circulation—
both city and country—has been proved by unaccepted challenge
to be greater than any other Queensland daily.
Rate Cards, Net Daily Circulation Certificate and Specimen Copies
from:—
Brisbane Daily Mail, Ltd.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT
and SON, 30-34 New
Bridge Street, E.C.4
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
dinner table. But the unnecessary vigor
with which she banged his plate in front
of him recalled him from his speculations.
“What is the matter with you?” he said,
surprised. Then, glancing round, “Where is
Dino?”
“Is the conversation with your German
so captivating that it puts everything out
of your head except him and his land?”
said Teresa with a ’toss of her head. She
wavered dangerously between tears and
rage.
Leo’s face darkened. He put down the
glass of wine he had just raised to his
lips. “I’m getting tired, Teresa. Do not
try me too far,” he said. “I have
enough worries without your perpetual bad
temper. You must try to control yourself
or we cannot go on. The other night I
offered to send you away. Don’t make
me wish that you had accepted that offer;
and you will do it, if you persist. What
have you to be angry about?”
His words opened the floodgates of
Teresa’s wrath. “Nothing! Nothing, my
kind, considerate, good, husband! I have
nothing to be angry about! I must not
care if you listen to that old man for an
hour and give him our money to throw
away on the land. No, I must be very
happy about that! I must cry ‘Bravo!’
to my splendid, wise husband who wishes
to throw away our money once more.
Well, it cannot be, understand!”
Leo crashed his fist down on the table.
Bells sounded in the glass; then all the
faint protesting noises bowed to his harsh,
dominant voice.
“I have given away nothing! I have
no intention of buying the land. You are
a fool with your fears! You have yourself
in a fine state of nerves, Teresa. Would
you like to put the money under your
pillow? Be careful, my girl. If you do
not try to control your disposition a
little I won’t be answerable for conse-
quences to yourself. And to me. Every
day we have this fight. Last week you
made me many promises to try and be
contented. What are your promises worth?
Nothing! Because I spend a little time
in conversation with someone you do not
like, here it is. Panic! A mad woman’s
ravings! Tiy to control yourself if you
do not want to drive us both to suicide!
Take away these things. I cannot eat,”
he added abruptly, and, flinging himself
from the chair, tramped out of the room.
In a moment she heard the door of the
surgery slam. She took her hands from
her face, where they had been thrust at
the commencement of his outburst. In these
days she was often unaware that she was
crying.
In the dark, secret depths of her mind
anew idea had taken root, and put forth
a shoot. It was an evil, deadly root. “You
will drive us both to suicide,” he had said.
(4)
Dino had been to a birthday party. He
was laden with spoils: a half-empty paper
basket of sweets, a toy balloon, a tiny
silken Union Jack. Teresa stifled his eager
tongue against her skirts, while she made
her halting thanks to the genial man who
drove the buggy.
“That’s all right, Mrs. Gherardi,” he said
jovially. “Only too glad to have had the
little chap. I hope he enjoyed himself.
I think they all had a pretty good time,
eh, kids?”
A chorus greeted him. As the buggy
drove off, Teresa could still hear the joyous
shouts.
Dino was restless and nervous from over-
fatigue. His eyes shone brilliantly, and
his olive cheeks were hot and flushed. He
wailed, a thin, tired wail, at being put
to bed, but fell asleep after a while. Teresa,
peeping in, saw that he still clutched the
little flag and the string of the balloon
in his hand. She cast the flag away. The
balloon she tied to the bed rail.
All this time there had been no sound
from the surgery.
Teresa wandered up and down the hall,
noiselessly, forlorn. Once she knocked
softly on the closed door, but her knock
passed unheard or unheeded, and she had
not the courage to persist further. At ten
o’clock she, too, went to bed and lay
huddled in the frozen sheets which were
not more frozen than her body. She was
shivering violently, her teeth chattering
with an unnatural cold. But after a time
she managed to subdue her agitated body,
then lay rigid, her hands pressed against
her sides.
When she heard Leo come into the room
she closed her eyes. Of all her physical
distress this effort to keep her eyelids
lowered was the worst. She heard his
careful movements, which familiarity made
so easy to translate; she heard him sigh
once or twice, and the swiftly stifled ex-
pression of his despondency provoked her
intolerably. She felt drearily that her
tearful contrition which would follow the
first hint of communication between them
would anger him. Lying there, she had
achieved an immense and doleful pity for
him.
For the first time since her marriage she
conceived herself as separate from him.
Her tormented brain groped towards an-
alysis of their condition, and the result
was a conclusion of her own worthless-
ness, her own futility. Intuitively she
realised that he had taken a step from
the old world to the new. He was break-
ing away, and where he was going she
could not follow him. Lying there she
felt all the dread, all the horror of the
mother animal who sees its young essay
strange and fearful explorations. And she
knew, she could not fail to know, after these
last few months, that her efforts at preser-
vation had been misdirected. To-night he
had treated her as an enemy. What did
he want of her? What were his strange
and terrible needs?
He was going to read for an hour or
so, as was his habit. Well, she could not
endure that. She could not lie, mute, un-
moving while her body was torn asunder
and her mind dissolved into particles of
flame. For a minute, sixty year-long
seconds of creeping time, she endured the
agony of repression.
Leo got in beside her, lowering his big
body gently, with care not to disturb her
slumber. His back was turned to her.
Leaning out, he raised the lamp wick,
then took up his book.
Unable to resist longer she flung herself
towards him and her shuddering lips found
his.
“I thought you were sleeping,” he said
gently. He was good humored. He had
forgotten the little scene at the dinner
table in the absorption of his books.
She had wisdom enough to realise, as
she lay in his arms, that a post-mortem of
the scene was not required. What had
been to her an engulfing sea was to him
but a wave, lightly brushing his feet and
receding without damage. She understood
this dimly and made no attempt to under-
stand more clearly. Her brain, tired with
the effort of grappling with things too
powerful for it, shrank away. But her
arms wound about him were not peaceful,
but like those of a derelict, storm-battered,
who clings to the precarious safety of a
spar.
She said nothing; and Leo, in the state
of mind in which he found himself, was
pleasantly content to drift through the
exquisite consciousness given by her loving
body into the annihilation of sleep. Smiling
down at her as she lay cradled on his arm,
he leaned across and turned out the lamp.
Long after he slept she lay staring with
straining eyes into the darkness. An hour
passed. Two hours. She was falling asleep
when the doorbell rang and jerked her
back to consciousness.
It was three o’clock. Leo did not wake,
so, hastily throwing on her woollen wrapper,
Teresa opened the door. A pale, frightened
face was shown by the candle light. To
her tired eyes it seemed a vague dis-
embodied thing hovering unsteadily in the
patch of light.
The youth, in answer to her sharp in-
quiry, said that his father was “terrible
sick and had been retching since supper.”
“Well, why you not come earlier, eh?”
said Teresa bitingly, jealous of her hus-
band’s rest.
The boy made no answer, but continued
to regard her stupidly.
“Well, I tell doctor. Wait there a
while.”
When Leo had gone she crept back into
the bed, which seemed very lonely now.
That is what they do, all the time, she
thought. These people came and dragged
him even from her arms. He must go from
her to thenr, to attend their needs. What
did she care if these people lived or died?
She had nothing to do with them and
their pains!
To her overwrought fancy the room took
on shifting dreadful shapes. In a panic
of fear and distress she stuffed the corner
of the sheet into her mouth, chewed and
worried it in half-insane fashion.
(5)
Dino had been wakened by the move-
ment in his parents’ room, which adjoined
his own. He heard his father’s voice say-
ing “It is very cold. There will be a frost
in the morning.” He wondered what a
frost was. In the morning he would get up
very early and see if he could find it.
Surprises always came in the morning. One
morning he had found a tricycle standing
on the verandah. No one knew where it
came from, not even his father. But his
father had said that he could have it.
Anything that came in the night and
was under your pillow or on the verandah
in the morning was jmurs.
He drew his little legs up under his
nightshirt and wiggled his toes with a
delightful sense of anticipation. What a
pity it was not morning now!
His father was going out in the dark
to make a sick person better. Oh, he
knew all about that! His father wasn’t
afraid of giants or dark or anything.
Now his father had put on his boots
and was moving heavily about the room.
To-morrow he would give his father a
present. Something wonderful. Now, what
could he give him? Suddenly a beautiful
idea came to him, and with it a. sense of
relief. Sister Rosina had been telling them
about God. God was wonderful. He could
do all sorts of things, more things than his
father, she had said. He would ask God
to do a magic thing.
He sat up in bed and bringing his cupped
hand near his mouth, whispered, “Listen,
dear God, please day ‘Let there he a
light’ and make it daytime. I want it as
a surprise for my father. He’s got to go
out in the dark to make a sick person
better. It’s not very nice to go out in
the dark. Of course my father doesn’t
mind,” he added loyally. “He’s brave and
he wouldn’t bother asking you. I want it
as a surprise for him, dear God.”
The wire door clanged. He heard his
father pound across the verandah boards,
then crunch down the gravel path. Now he
was holding his breath with suspense, and
while he waited, his small body taut as an
arrow string, the wind caught the verandah
blinds and they flapped and rattled,
giving voice to the awe-inspiring, black
mystery which was night. In that instant
the light in his mother’s room was extin-
guished. Darkness, complete, terrible, fell
upon him.
At first he was paralysed with fright.
Terrible unknown powers appeared to be
leagued against him, and he began to cry
stormily.
In a minute he felt his mother’s arms
round him. He buried his head against
her breast.
“What is the matter with you, eh, my
baby? Did you have a nasty dream? It
does not matter now. Mamma is here.
What have you to cry about?” She began
to rock him in her arms, conscious of him
only as a warmth against her heart. Her
tears mingled with his, her wet cheek was
pressed against his blubbering little face.
Gradually the tempest of his crying abated.
He was able to wail forlornly, “I want
the light! Mamma, light the lamp! I
don’t like the dark!”
Heedless of his demand, Teresa rocked
back and forth, “Sorrow, sorrow! What
a sorrowful world we live in, tiny son.”
Like a chip flung into the waters of her
pain his words were caught up and identi-
fied with the stream. “We are in the
dark. YeS. You and I and Dadda, all
living in the dark. I am helpless, little
boy. I try, but it does no good. Only
God can make the light. So much sorrow,
Dino!”
Dino wailed again. “He doesn’t, Mamma.
I asked God to make a light and he
didn’t.” She did not hear him. The tide
of her grief made all sound inaudible save
its own roaring.
She got up from the little bed and slid
the child under the covers. “You must go
to sleep,” she said. As he heard her pass
from his room into her own he felt that
all his familiar world was passing from
him. He reached out his hands to clutch
at her, but she had gone and he did not
dare call her back. He heard the bed
creak as she got into it and after a minute
the harsh sobs which she made no effort
to subdue. His heart was pounding pain-
fully. He knew what those sounds were,
coming from the next room. Mamma,
when she cried like this, was thinking about
a vague, wonderful place called home.
There was a scratching at the door. That
was Tinker. Poor Tinker, perhaps hr' was
crying, too. The separate loneliness of the
three of them converged into a sense of
utter desolation. He couldn’t bear it.
Hastily he scrambled out of bed and
pattered across to the door. He turned
the handle very softly, then pushed open
the gauze swing-door.
“Sh” he said, and caught Tinker’s
cold nose in his small hands. Tinker seemed
to understand and choked back his de-
lighted whine.
A few minutes later boj' and dog were
sleeping peacefully on the little bed.
Chapter IV.
(1)
After that night Leo observed a change
in his wife’s temper. There were fewer
outbursts. Her protests at her life and his
grew less impassioned and less frequent.
But his relief at being rid of this continu-
ally pricking sword-point, which had kept
open the wound of his exile, was offset by
the realisation that she was growing over-
melancholy; yet if he strove to rouse her
he precipitated the hysteria he dreaded.
He decided that she was best left to her-
self, that in time her youth and natural
spirit would assert itself and reaction set in.
With this comforting thought in the back
of his mind, and free from her incessant
reproaches, he was able to interest himself
in the life of the little community to an
extent which provided an opiate at least
during hours of action.
Now and again he found himself introduc-
ing the subject of their return. Despite
his convincing reflection that he was doing
all that was humanly possible, he could not
rid himself of intermittent shamed uneasi-
ness.
One such occasion was a night when they
had been reading after supper. He glanced
up from his book to find her eyes on him.
There w T as in them a flash of malice which
disconcerted him. For a fraction of a second
he confronted that strange gleam; then
Teresa dropped her eyes covertly to the
book which lay on her lap.
“Is the book no good?” he asked uncer-
tainly.
“I was thinking,” she said. “I must make
some new suits for Dino. He grows very
big.”
He knew she had not been thinking of
Dino’s suits. But the thing which he had
seen in her eyes was unspeakable. It was
beyond his power to inquire further.
“Yes, he grows fast,” he agreed heartily.
“He will be quite a big boy by the time we
get home. Your people will be very proud
of him, eh?”
“Yes, he will be a big boy when we get
home,” said Teresa. She laughed unex-
pectedly and her laugh was harsh and mirth-
less. “I think I will go to bed. I am very
tired.”
“Yes, yes,” said Leo over-affable. “You
were out this afternoon, weren’t you.”
Teresa was putting her book in the case.
She pressed the glass door shut with care-
ful firmness.
“I went for a walk, a long walk along
the Gundibbie-road.” She had her back
turned to him, but .some quality in her voice
arrested his whole attention. He laid down
his book.
“I went into the cemetery,” she said in
that same curious, even tone. “It is a poor
place. The graves have little wooden fences
round them and they are poorly kept.
There is no beauty there. The people of
this little town are in the midst of ugli-
ness in death as they are in life. You re-
member the cemetery of Bologna la Certosa,
with the delicate marble sculptures and the
lovely myrtle and cypress? Here there are
only stones and the pepper-tree. And much
dust and rank grass.” She fell silent.
(To be continued next week.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Williamstown racing, so far from throw-
ing light on prospects for the big autumn
events, added to punters’ confusion. Take
weight-for-age form. Mystic Peak, who had
vanquished Greenline and Wise Force so
brilliantly at TVloonee Valley, was served up
a hot favorite for the C. F. Orr Stakes, but
did not gain a place. Pat Quinlan’s gelding
almost fell through galloping on the heels
of Byron near the home turn; he had been
ridden a waiting race, and was just start-
ing to move forward. Sydney admirers of
Greenline will wonder why he was allowed
to go out at 4 to 1 and didn’t finish in the
money. Turf oracles argued that the dis-
tance —a mile —was too far for him. If
that be so why did Greenline, with lOst. 21b.,
receive such warm support for the last
Doncaster Handicap?
Frank Dempsey, through indisposition, did
not ride at Williamstown, and the mount on
Greenline was given to Forbes, a jockey
recently returned from India, Dashed to
the front, the son of Greenstead led by two
lengths or more at one stage, but when
joined and challenged by Wise Force it soon
became manifest that he would not last
out the full journey. Wise Force won his
races last year through Dempsey’s fine judg-
ment of pace. There has been a rupture of
relations between Dempsey and the trainer,
and now the Queensland stallion is being
piloted by Jack Daniels, whose habitual
eagerness to hit the front at the earliest
opportunity does not suit Wise Force.
After the chance of Mystic Peak had been
accidentally extinguished and Greenline
knocked up it looked a moral that Wise
Force would score. However, wily Willie
Duncan brought Byron on the scene with an
overpowering rush and got the Cyllene More
gelding home by three-quarters of a length.
Until Eric Connolly stepped in and absorbed
all the long odds offered (obtaining as much
as 20 to 1) the general body of punters
Bert “This looks l.u<e -ms
WINNER COMlMCi''
GERT' "How THRILLINq
£>ert'. "\ BET HES up TO &VKTV
knots .”
’."SIXTy KNOTS? HELL BE
IN AN AWFUL TA.NQLS
Before he's finished''
did not pay serious attention to the claims
of Byron. “Con’s” lead was followed to
such a tune that Bert Price’s candidate
actually shortened to 4 to 1. Byron had
the benefit of a 101 b. allowance, whereas
Greenline was penalised 101 b. and 71b. more
than weight-for-age was carried by Mystic
Peak and Wise Force. Through a remark-
able concatenation of circumstances, third
place went to Dick Turpin, a rank outsider.
Glare, holder of the Australasian record
for 11 furlongs, re-appeared in the C. F.
Orr Stakes. Quoted at 33 to 1, he ran
accordingly; he was a bad last for the
greater part of the journey, but was warm-
ing up encouragingly towards the finish. Of
far different temperament, Waterline —
another Maorilander —reproduced his early
spring form by brilliantly annexing the first
division of the Marine Handicap. “S. A.
Rawdon” won a Newmarket Handicap with
Blague in 1915, and intends trying to repeat
the ti-ick this year with Waterline, who
must be hard to beat. Among Waterline's
victims on Saturday was the . Adelaide
sprinter Taurus, who shaped favoritism with
Dominant, the latter having been backed
from 6 to 1 down to 5 to 2. Taurus led to
the straight entrance, where he compounded,
possibly through being short of a public
gallop.
Duncan rode two winners, Byron and
Waterline, and is rapidly overhauling Ashley
Reed as the most successful jockey at meet-
ings in the metropolitan area. . Bert Price,
who steered Flash Jack to victory in the
Y.R.C. Grand National Steeplechase of 1915,
saddled-up two winners, Gynotthr (Electric
Handicap) and Byron. Stowe, from the
Adelaide stable of J. Sing, another retired
cross-country horseman, captured the middle-
distance Wyndham Handicap. He belongs to
F. H. Robinson, who acquired the Stedfast
gelding in England, where he pioneered con-
cession betting. *
* * * *
At Caulfield on Saturday the V.A.T.C.
autumn meeting will open. Phar Lap can
be written down as a “pay-out proposition
in the St. George Stakes, run over nine fur-
longs at weight-for-age, with penalties and
allowances; tlie only rival likely to extend
him is Waterline, whose real galloping
capacity is yet unplumbed. A .multitude, of
horses are engaged in the Oakleigh 1 late, l
more than 20 horses are left in, the race
must be run in divisions. Those from whom
the winner or (winners) may come include
Greenline, Taurus. Parkwood, Spanish Gal-
leon, Walvin and Kaftan. Fancies:
Oakleigh Plate: Taurus; next Greenline.
St. George Stakes: Phar Lap; next,
Waterline.
As at Moorefield on the previous Saturday,
the first race at Rosehill gave most of the
odds-criers a “skinner.” It was the Maiden
Two-year-old Handicap, and Trautwein again
plunged on East Maitland, while there was
support for Booth’s pair. Intuition and The
Amazon, and for Dogwood. None of them
had ai chance at the finish with Bonnie
Valerie (20 to 1, nominal), The Amazon
doing the better of Booth’s, while East Mait-
land was an indifferent third. Bonnie Valerie
is a brown filly by Caravel —Galtee Queen,
dam of Vaals and Sion; Galtee Queen and
her former stable-companion Galtee Princess
(both were owned by the brothers Mulcahy
in Perth) have given an extraordinary num-
ber of good horses to the Turf.
The second division of the handicap for
youngsters was an exercise-canter for a fine-
looking fellow in Marinade (Moabite—
Pereskia). The ring demanded odds in his
case, and also in that of Veilmond, who,
haying run forward in a race at Randwick
and being rather leniently treated compared
with the second- and third-raters opposed to
him, did look a good thing for the Three-year
old Handicap. Yet his backers had anxious
moments: he was eleventh or twelfth with
three furlongs to go, and McCarten’s run was
very late —but not too late. _ Veilmond
covered the seven furlongs in lmin. 26sec.;
the second favorite, Calendo, Maggie Rau (a
filly by Magpie—Tcremarau) and Rosendo
were nearest to him. Moss’s colt may do
better in the autumn than in the spring,
but he has a temper.
Leslie Wallace and Dan Lewis were re-
warded in the Rosehill Stakes, w.f.a., for
their patience with Waugoola, the most con-
sistent horse at the Christmas meetings and
the unluckiest. The conditions suited this
spare but game customer —he escaped a pen-
alty—and he was 7 to 4 in a field of seven.
McLachlan took Valparaiso (fours) to the
front and slowed the field down skilfully,
but the brother to Fuji San could not pace
it with Waugoola in the run home, though
he remained in second place. Balloon King
(14 to 1), coming with a rattle, got third,
beating Don Moon and John Buchan —-both
backed, as was Panola, who was left at the
post. The V.R.C. Derby winner is an honest
little fellow, and quite likely to defeat Veil-
mond again in the classics.
Killarney and Brazenface were reserved
for the Flying Handicap, and shared favor-
itism. Killarney put up a stout fight, but
Brazenface did not give a glimpse of the form
he showed in the spring, and is no Futurity
or Newmarket horse if he cannot improve
suddenly and substantially. Promptitude
(8 to 1), ridden by Knox (the best of the
jockeys to come from the pony courses),
won nicely from Killarney and Lord Romeo
(20 to 1), who was not well served at the
barrier. Promptitude’s record is now three
wins and a seco-nd in four starts, and he
always goes out at a capital price.
A good opinion was formed of Delwood
(Backwood —Maggie Trieze) when he fin-
ished among the first six in the Rosehill
Guineas (this after getting badly away),
and led into the straight in Tregilla’s A.J.C.
Derby; but subsequent poor performances
put punters off him. He has been restored
to favor as the result of a nice win (at
eights) in the Rosehill Handicap, in which
he was ridden by Reynolds. Second to
Delwood —the first of the Backwoods to stay
even a middle distance —was My Talisman
(10 to 1), and Bosmina just cut Magdaff
out of third place. Zeeland and Royal Smile
were the favorites; the Queensland mare flat-
tered her supporters for a time, but not
so Zeeland. Attar completed his fourth suc-
cessive victory by leading all the way in the
Carlingford Handicap and staving off Nolens
Volens and Star d’Or in a tight finish. He
went out at sixes. A brown colt by Beau
Fils —Crispie, he is another of those three-
year-olds—they are winning a power of races
in open company—and is owned and trained
by B. R. Payten.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Maiden Handicap: Lord Lucius.
Flying Handicap: Ticino; next, Sunlit
Reef.
Canterbury Handicap: Hustler; next,
Philippic.
Ilighweight Handicap-: Clarence; next,
Shamash.
Campsie Handicap: Amanullah; next,
Algiers.
* * * *
With its usual good sense and regard for
the convenience of the public, the A.J.C. has
informed the N.S.W. Government that. it is
prepared to convert its 60-20-20 totalisator
into straightout and place machines. . If the
Government has any sense at all it will
welcome the proposal with both hands. West-
ralia has straightout and place totes, which
are a boon to the small punter, and Westralia
is the only State in which tote revenue has
steadily increased.
* * * *
“Brownsmith”: I have it on authority
that isn’t worse than the average that the
starting-price bookmakers in Sydney now
number about 5000. Of course it is difficult
to distinguish between the man who is in
business for himself and the one who acts
as agent for a central capitalist—the “tied
house” in a brewery way of speaking—but
the difference isn’t material. When Lang
made his great effort to tax the legal book-
maker out of existence he created an extra
demand for the cheap illicit kind, and amid
the general wreckage, when doctors and law- •
yers and architects are reaching out for pick-
and-spade jobs, the number of people who
are willing to fill the want is remarkable.
They are content with a very small basic
wage out of the business too; in fact, so
many estimable citizens now run the trade
as a side-line that it has become more re-
spectable than it ever was before. When the
police have spent an hour or two ransacking
the premises' of an old offender, and have
got nothing but his assurances that he has
gone out of the business and that evidence
is non-existent, they may wonder which
blameless business man lends his office for
the storage of the incriminating documents,
but that doesn’t get them much further. The
old-time principal may, have become a mere
branch of an organisation, but the Head
Centre is a reticent cuss and difficult to
trace. Probably the only way to get rid
of the starting-price bookie is to prevent
the horse starting—to prevent any horse
starting, in fact —but that would be an
admission of defeat, and would leave Lang
with less revenue than ever.
%
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Reduced prices resulted in a bigger crowd
than usual at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night, when Rus Critcher (lOst.) clashed
with Wally Hancock (lOst. 41b.). Both
boxers did more feinting than fighting, but
the last round, at least, was exciting. Han-
cock used his left hook more effectively than
did Critcher his straight' right, and the ex-
sailorman led on points as hostilities ceased;
the referee, however, thought it was a draw.
* * * *
Bruno Bertuccio’s impetuosity proved too
much for Young Gildo in the bout at Leich-
hardt. Gildo (Bst. 9|lb.) boxed better than
Western Suburbs enthusiasts had previously
seen him, but he could not keep Bertuccio
(9st. fib.) away. Uncle Sam’s scrapper out-
slugged the Filipino throughout 15 fast
rounds.
* * * *
“Tom Cribb”: A controversy lias been
raging in England as to where padded box-
ing-gloves originated. They seem to have
been used in exhibition and practice scraps
early in the eighteenth century—an old bill
announcing a benefit to Figg, the first of
the illustrious line of boxing promoters, is
adorned with representations of foils, single-
sticks and stuffed mitts, boxers of those days
being expected to be proficient with all the
tools named. But France can claim the
first recorded fight with padded gloves. This
was in 1818 at Aix-la-Chapelle, when two
Englishmen fought, one being knocked out.
History, which has embalmed the mill and
its result, is silent as to the names of the
warriors.
The Ins and Outs
The West Indians seem to have at last
overcome the Grimmett complex, for at
Adelaide they opened their second match
against South Australia with the useful score
of 303 for 6 wickets, all the batsmen showing
greatly improved form and confidence. Head-
ley, who seems to have found himself at
last, gave a finished display for 75 after
Roach (26) and Martin (22) had taken the
gloss off the bowling. Bartlett, in spite of
an inj'ured hand, helped the side along with
34, and then a fine stand of 97 in 73 minutes
by Constantine and Grant provided a treat
for the onlookers. Constantine, as expected,
gave a dashing exhibition of hitting for 63,
but Grant provided the surprise of the inn-
ings by a display almost as attractive and
dashing as that of Constantine, his score of
50 n.o. including a six. Grimmett’s three
wickets cost 106 runs, Carlton- and Lee tak-
ing one each.
% # *
“Old Q.” : In view of his success in Shef-
field Shield cricket, there is a movement
afoot in Brisbane to bring the young abo.
bowler, Gilbert, down from the settlement
of his people at Barambah to Brisbane, the
idea being that by playing in grade cricket
he'will improve out of sight, and thus become
an acquisition to Australian cricket. The
Protector of Abos. .is said to have intimated
that he will have no objection provided Gil-
bert is given suitable employment _ with a
responsible person. Still, I hope it won’t
be done. The aboriginal athlete has been
too much* exploited in Queensland for the
benefit of others than himself. Two instances
that come to mind were the handling of
sprinter Charley Samuels and boxer Jerry
Jerome for the benefit of mean whites, who
battened on their earnings. Samuels was ’too
early to reap the benefits of the Aborigines’
Protection Act. Jerome was not, yet he
was exploited for years until press comment
induced the then Col. Sec. to put him under
the care of the department. Jerry was then
at the finish of his run, but the Protector
got enough cuts out of his finishing fights
to settle him in comparative affluence. What
the heads made out ot him before that, the
deuce only knows,
**. * *
“Shrewsbury”: “Wisden’s” for 1931 in-
eludes two Australians in its annual list
of the five best cricketers of the past season,
these being the inevitable Bradman and the
almost as unavoidable Grimmett. The three
Englishmen are all amateurs, Turnbull,
Peebles and Lyon. To those who saw the
first-named at work here with Gilhgan s
side for Maoriland, his inclusion in the quin-
tette is not understandable. A ratlher slow
batsman of orthodox methods the ex-skipper
of Cambridge did not strike anyone here as
a coming champion. However, until his last
season’s performances come through, judg-
ment may be suspended. Peebles is the
Scottish Oxonian whose googly bowling got
him a couple of games in the Tests against
Australia. In the two matches he took only 9
wickets for 354, but impressed the tourists
very favorably. To Australians, M. D. Lyon,
the Somerset amateur, is best known as a
critic of Bradman. A good batsman and
’keeper, he has a cantankerous strain in him
which has more than once got him into hot
water.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Cricket followers in Aus-
tralia. w r ere surprised to hear that Johnny
D ouglas who, with his father, was re-
cently drowned in the North Sea, had
left the tidy sum of £27,090, Douglas
senior’s estate working out at £68,000. Many
were under the impression that the Essex
aud England player was one of those
ama teurs who contrive to spend most of
their f j me playing first-class cricket while
not engaged j n aliy visible occupation other-
wise> Ag a ma tter of fact, father and son
were members of a very prosperous umber
i mpol .ti n o- brm engaged in the so-called
Badtic trade j t was during their return
from a bus i' ne ss trip to Scandinavia that
their steamer was sunk in a collision.
j» * * *
Tenth Slip : The end of the ciicke
season is now well in sight, the last Shef-
field Shield match between Victona a
South Australia beginning m Adelaide on
February 20. The West Indian game against
South Australia leaves the touring si
with only three more to go, two ot
them Tests. The fourth, in Melbourne this
week, will be followed by
A.S.W., and then the fifth Test and fma
game, both in Sydney. ihc season as
whole has been marked by a dearth of
promising new bowlers, Hunt, of N.S.W., and
Gilbert, of Queensland, being, perhaps, ex-
ceptions. In spite of a powerful batting
side, N.S.W. had to play second fiddle to
Victoria, which nevertheless was fortunate
in that the two ancients, Blackie and Iron-
monger, are still the two most effective
trundlers in Australia. Queensland, after
a good start, went all to pieces. It haa a
really good bowling combination, but poor
slip fielding and unreliable batting let it
down. South Australia had to rely chiefly
on Grimmett, with lefthander Nitschke as
the core of the batting. Here again a really
class bowler is badly needed.
(Continued on next page.)
“Top Spin”: The star turn of the recent
N.S.W. tennis championships was the per-
formance of H‘. McGrath, a 14-year-old Syd-
ney High School boy. This youngster, who
’defeated several prominent seniors in the
earlier rounds of the State singles cham-
pionship, wound up the meeting by winning
the special singles—after the champion event,
the chief singles event of the tourney. He
has a good service, and a remarkable double-
handed backhand. His forehand, though accu-
rate, is lacking in sting, and his volleying as
yet only fair. His accuracy in placing and
tossing is astonishing, and his anticipation
most disturbing to his opponents. He is
1o figure in the Australian championships m
March.
* * * *
“Mulgrave” Not to be outdone by the
effete South, the hardy Norsemen of Cairns
recently resolved to hold a Henley-on-Barrine
regatta, Barrine being the name by which
the leisurely and crocodile-haunted stream
which occasionally overflows into Cairns
streets, crocodiles and all, is known. The
affair was a huge success, running into
several days, instead of the one originally
intended, owing to periodical interruptions
by typical Cairns rain, which resembles no-
thing so much as the activities of a thou-
sand firehoses to the acre. However, the
outward wetness was countered by the usual
Cairns homoeopathic methods, “and an enjoy-
able time was had by all,” as a local j'ournal
put it.
* * * *
“Ilotham”: Victoria lost a couple of
famous old-time athletes recently, when
W. H. Proudfoot and H. Milne passed over.
Both were mighty footballers, the latter as
follower for Fitzroy and South Melbourne,
while he also gained inter-State honors.
Only 46, he served with the A.I.F. “Bill
Proudfoot w r as a famous full-back for Collin g-
wood, playing with the club from 1892 to
1906, and for Victoria on several occasions.


RAZOR STROPS
AND HONES
SBO
S9O.
ď
"'Li
S5B.
Strop Paste,
1 /- per tin.
Postage 3d.
SBo—Length overall, 18in. ; width, 2in. Green
Velvet Leather Razor Strop, good quality, well
finished and worked up, 4/6 each.
S9o—Length overall, 22in.; width, 2in. Green
Velvet Leather Razor Strop, excellent quality, beau-
tifully finished > and worked up. Double sided.
5/- each. Post Free.
S9s—Length overall, 24in. ; width, 2in. Green
Velvet Leather Razor Strop, excellent quality, beau-
tifully finished and worked up. Double-sided with
Clip Swivel. 7/6 each. Post Free.
SsB—Length overall, 25in.; width, 2in. Genuine
Horse Hide Razor Strop, excellent quality, well
finished and worked up. Double sided with Clip
Swivel. 10/6 each. Post Free.
MWSMiJKQ/BMIR
SUPERFINE
AZQRHOJM
ieen Edge Razor Hone, size 5x2 inches x *in.,
ne cutting. In box, complete, with instructions,
3/6 each. Postage fid.
lUperfine Razor Hone, size 7x2 inches x fin. Very
ne, smooth, fast cutting. Specially suitable for
nely hollow-ground razors, 5/6 each. Postage 6d.
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
■
mmmm
mm.num
m
«
mi
iijy
mSM
ml
■ i
1
n
■
m
5®
as
w
mm
*>>■■
. : . : -■ '
MMfll
sf»pwa
wmmmm
mm
#:
wmill
MiIWWBI
IP grass
*
**. »*
■
••••
7%&*
-v»
J
iso
y"
§^s
m
mm
r
&
f'
'■'■./■v ? - ■
*•- ■■>
SP~ atSNS
I H
•*V • -
1 1
:
;: ■
I
1
!
: :
i
Crystal Gld and /Vew
The lucky few whose families hand down and
cherish old cut glass need not he envied,
you can buy modern crystal that is made by
descendants of the very craftsmen who made /
under the same line of masters/ much oh the
finest crystal of bygone days. Aiaster and
man f Stuarts are no less skilled to-day. Look
for the name Stuart etched on the glass.
r
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful ylass is sold.
Th« Ins and Outs
The West Indies missed an outright win
against Victoria by dropping a catch in the
slips when the Cabbage Gardeners had lost
nine wickets for 280-—they had 209 runs still
to. get to win—in their second innings. The
miss came 10 minutes before stumps on the
final day, and Healy, who was the let-off
man, managed to keep his end up and hoid
the tourists to a first-innings victory. The
tourists finished their first knock with 495 and
dismissed Victoria for 170 less. They closed
their second shot at 228 for 5 wickets (Head-
ley 113). P. Ellis (47), Tolhurst (63) and
Quin (43) were the chief scorers in the
Victorian second innings.
❖ ❖ $ *
“Glenelg”: The West Indian tour has
been a boon to Clarrie Grimmett, for it has
enabled him to collect his 100 wickets m
Tests much sooner than would otherwise
have been the case. His bag in the three
first Tests was 25, making the total 101, or,
counting wickets in the two matches
with M.L. in 1927-28, 113. . Against Eng-
land, Grimmett has taken 76 wickets, his
best run in a Test series being 29. Maurice
Tate holds the record for a Test season with
38 wickets, while the Australian highest on
the list is Mailey, with 36.
• * * *
The match between Queensland and Vic-
toria at Brisbane was literally washed out
by rain. It was tough luck for the Vies.,
since they were faced with what amounted
to a Queensland third eleven, thanks to the
wrangle between the State officials and the
players of the No. 1 State side. It was 10
to 1 on a win for Victoria, and that would
have made their hold on the Shield safe.
As it is, each side takes two points. Vic-
toria and N.S.W. are bracketed with 15
points each —though Ma has only won two
matches and lost three as against three wins
and no losses by Victoria. Queensland lies
second with 13 points, with 3 wins and 2
losses. So Vic. has got to beat South Aus. It
looks a good thing for the Dark Blues if
only Grimmett doesn’t bolt—and he is apt
to do that at Adelaide.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Old Q.” : The dispute between the State
selection committee and the Queensland
eleven, which practically ruined the Sheffield
Shield season for Bananaland after a most
promising start, has ended in a complete
crawl-down by the selectors and the asso-
ciation which was ill-advised enough to
back them. The trouble arose out of the
insistence of the selectors in Brisbane on
naming the elevens to take the field when
the side was in Melbourne and Adelaide.
The custom of cricket is that, once the selec-
tors have chosen a team, the captain decides
who should be left out. Of late years a
system of team selection committees has
sprung up. The Queensland trouble has been
an extension of this doubtful principle. All
is now forgiven on both sides. The selectors
have, discarded their pretensions, and all sus-
pensions have been lifted.
* * $
“Third Man”: Having finished its' Shef-
field season, N.S.W. has been considering
the State averages. Bradman, of course,
heads the list with 115.53, and a highest
score of 258. Jackson is second with 98 for
three completed innings—Bradman’s tally
was six; more than half of Jackson’s total
came from one score of 166. Kippax (seven
innings at 51.28), Bill (eight at 50.50) and
McCabe (six at 46.66) follow. Hunt is
easily the best bowler, having taken 28
wickets for 18.42 apiece, while he also played
four completed innings for an average of 17.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The Mctlaggis”: A recent article, in a
Melbourne paper treating of the intelligence
of dogs tells of a golfer who was continually
surprised, on arriving home from the
links near by, to find one or more new
golf balls on the counterpane of his bed.
The Sending, for such it seemed to be, nearly
converted the family to spiritualism, until
one wet day the prints of two muddy fore-
paws were discovered on the coverlet. The
golfer owned a fox terrier which used to
accompany him to the links, but invariably
returned by itself. It proved to be the dem
ex machina, though why it invariably picked
up new balls is a mystery to this day. Dogs,
as a matter of fact, habitually take an intelli-
gent interest in golf-—much more so than the
average caddie. I once had an Irish terrier
who was my invariable companion on my
rounds, and was a great favorite with the
other members of the club. One day he went
berserk, so to speak, and bit the club presi-
dent just as he was driving off. The reason
was a mystery until someone discovered that
the injured official had been using one of
those newfangled colored balls which were
then just coming into fashion. His was a
bright yellow.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: Victor East, first of the
prominent Australian professional golfers,
and the man who lured Joe. Kirkwood away
to the land of the wooden ham, has been
prophesying. An uncommonly good judge,
with practically a world-wide experience of
the game, he is certain that before long 65
and under will be scored for the 18 holes on
the longest courses. Following that, he
tips, play will have so improved that even
60 will be reached and perhaps broken.
That means an average of 3.33 strokes per
hole —a rather tough proposition, but noL
altogether impossible seeing that 72 is
nowadays an accepted par on many courses
for a good player. Of course the general mass
of golfers will let all that go hang. They
will go on doing their regular round of any-
thing from 94 to llOj year in and year out,
and cheerfully lying about it at the Nine-
teenth afterwards.
sS * 1* *
“Hoylake”: The big golf season on the
other side of the world is drawing nearer,
and this year promises to be rather crowded,
owing to the fact that it includes the Ryder
Cup contest for American and British pro-
fessionals, played every two years. The'
American national open championship will be
held a week later, and the British profes-
sionals are expected to take part. The Yanks
will conclude their championship season with
the contest for the amateur title beginning
August 31. Prior to all that, the British
season will open with the amateur champion-
ship at Westward Ho, commencing on May
18. This will be followed with the open
championship at Carnoustie, starting on June
3. Most of the leading amateur and pro-
fessional golfers on both sides of the Atlantic
will have a finger in all these pies, which
means that many of them will he on the
jump from the beginning of May to the
middle of September.
:j: ❖ =]: ❖
“Hoylake”: Some surprise has been ex-
pressed in Britain because the junior Charles
Whitcombe has been preferred by the
selectors of the Ryder Cup team to Dun-
can, hero of a hundred fights and winner of
an open championship. Whitcombe has lately-
been in rare form, among his successes being
the Irish open championship, always a hard
title to gain. Duncan, however, is quite
agreeable to the change, which may bring a
shift of luck to Britain. Britons have never
done much in this tourney on the American
side of the Atlantic.
Car and Cycle
“Garry” : Malcolm Campbell’s new record
of 245.73 m.p.h. at Daytona Beach goes to
show that body design is more important
than tremendous engine-power as a speed
factor. Campbell’s first “Blue Bird” was
credited with 900 li.p. and attained 206.95
m.p.h. The freakish three-engined car, driven
by Ray Keecli, had 1500 h.p. under its bonnet,
and beat Campbell’s record by only four-
tenths of a mile per hour. Segrave, in a
car differing but slightly from the “Blue
Bird,” made the record (231.36 m.p.h.) which
Campbell has broken, and Kaye Don with
4000 h.p. at his disposal failed to get any-
where near it. “Blue Bird II.” is a Napier
car not much heavier than “Blue Bird 1.,”
but the motor, though of about the same
cylinder capacity, develops 1300 h.p. at top
speed. The comparative lightness of the car
is of great advantage when —as on the occa-
sion of the latest record —Daytona Beach is
a little undulating.
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell put up some
remarkable runs in his preliminary trials
at Daytona Beach, reaching 200 m.p.h. on
one occasion, and on another soaring to 260.
when a slipped clutch compelled him to
let the car run out in neutral. Campbell
finds that his trouble is not to move fast,
but to stop. There is not too much room
at the ends of the American course, and
brakes cannot be thrown in when cars of
this type are travelling at great speeds. As
it was, his brake linings caught fire as the
result of one attempt to pull up after cross-
ing the line. If he ever comes to Kaitaia Beach
in M.L., he will have no trouble that way,
for there are many miles of long straight
running at each end of the track, on which
he can let his jigger “die out” like the
Irishman’s last nip of whisky.
$ v
“Fitzcray”: Hubert Opperman and
“Fatty” Lamb left Australia for France
the other day, and Ossie Nicholson and
Fred Thomas, also Victorians, may fol-
low at the end of the month. The imme-
diate objective of Opperman and Lamb is
the Paris-to-Brest-and-return road race, over
700 miles, which is held every 10 years.
There is a chance that Opperman, who made
a great impression among European cyclists
on liis last appearance in France, may find
a place in one of the Tour de France teams
as well. He has had good experience of
European road-racing conditions, and is
riding better than ever. This is Lamb’s
first trip to Europe, but he lias raced behind
pace in America with some success.


Ijegal Notice. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. lVCffi of 1930.
Between JESSIE ISABEL MARGARET HENNESST
Petitioner
And WILLIAM MICHAEL HENNESSY Respondent
To WILLIAM MICHAEL HENNESSY late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Jessie Isabel Mar-
garet Hennessy has commenced a suit against yon
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before the
twenty-eighth day of April One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge. ,
Dated this thirtieth day of January one thousand
nine hundred and thirty-one.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.] E. L. DICKSON,
Acting Chief Clerk in Divorce.
C M. MARSH & HARVEY, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney sorrows with the sorrow of Aus-
tralia’s sister across the Tasman. The
green hills of Maoriland are bowed, and one
of her pleasant cities is but so much dust
and wreckage upon the landscape. In com-
parison with the terrible disaster which in tlie
twinkling of an eye swept away from many
a woman her children and her home, and
deprived men and their families of the very
means of existence, how trivial does the
slump about which we have wailed to
Heaven appear!
Because many of them have happy memo-
ries of Maoriland, Sydney people are already
deep in arrangements for helping the suf-
ferers. Midnight performances of musical
comedies, a big dance at the Wentworth
and a monster Town Hall concert are among
the listed money-raisers. E. J. Gravestock
is organising the concert, which' takes
place on Saturday night. Within half an
hour of announcing his intention he was
so rushed with offers of artists desirous of
showing their sympathy that he could have
filled four programmes. The musicians will
include the Con. orchestra, the Philharmonic
Society, Isidor Goodman, Frank Hutchens,
Lindley Evans, Albert, Cazabon and Law-
rence Godfrey Smith. Among the singers
are Mrs. Goossens, Molly de Gunst, Enid
Conley, Spencer Thomas and Clement Wil-
liams.
Concert managers regarded Napier and
Hastings as • two of the best entertain-
ment towns in Enzed. Record money was
always taken in this district; on the
last Backhaus tour the house at Hastings
was packed to overflowing. The pianist
grew lyrical over the beauties that met
his gaze in these parts. In the Soptli
Island he had encountered snow and howl-
ing wind and sleet. When he arived in
Plawkes Bay he was met by smiling blue
skies beneath which wattle-trees burned
gold, and towards which in the distance
mountains raised their snow-clad peaks.
The thought once more beats upon the
mind that this Australia of ours is a gentle
land. She is no temperamental creature
with brooding sulphuric gaze, but a con-
tented woman with happy eyes. She breeds
no savage children. Among her wild animals
are no ravening beasts of prey. Live and
let live seems to be the tolerant attitude of
the kangaroo, the wallaby and the emu. The
platypus is a most amiable fellow, and even
the snake does not go out of his way to
attack human brother.
Not for 30-odd years has there been a
wedding reception at Government House. In
those far-off days Lord Hampden, the then
Governor, spread a wedding breakfast for
the Honorable Alice Brand, his daughter.
This year of grace the old Macquarie-street
mansion will once more be steeeped in the
fragrance of orange blossom, for their State
Excellencies are lending their home to Bethia
Anderson (only daughter of the Governor's
private secretary) for her marriage to Allan
Foott, son of Major-General C. H. Foott,
State Commandant of Victoria. There’s to
be a whole retinue of ’maids, and little Rose-
mary Game is to be the trainbearer. In
color effect and design the frocking promises
to be An eye-opener, as both Bethia and
her mother are steeped in art, ancient and
modem.
With nothing of her original home left
but a kitchen dresser and six knives and
forks, Mrs. Ellis Fcilding Jones is still feel-,
ing herself blessed among women, for her
two babies, Annette and Dinah, were with
her at Toronto when fire consumed the Ellis
Feilding Jones homestead, Oaklands, at
Ravensworth. The family was spending a
summer holiday at Toronto, and the knives
and forks were a precaution against short-
age of cutlery. But all the couple’s beauti-
ful wedding presents are melted among the
ruins. Not even the grand piano which Mrs.
Stuart Osborne gave her daughter was
saved, nor were any of the rather rax-e
manuscripts and books which the literary
Ellis Feilding Jones had collected around him.
In the small hours of the morning the hus-
band and wife motored over from Toronto
to the scene of their loss and gazed on the
ashes of what was their first home.
Artist Aletta Lewis, who stayed some time
with us in Sydney and for many months had
her studio in Doone, the nice old house in
Roslyn Gardens, is back in her own London,
and bitterly bewailing the lost sunshine of
Australia. When Aletta was here she so
often craved the atmosphex-e of London that
it is quite interesting to know that she has
painted' the walls of her studio a luminous
pink to cheer her with even the semblance of
Sydney light. Roy de Mestre (another artist
abroad) drops in whenever possible to bask
in the glow from the' pink walls.
The meeting of the Royal Society for the
Welfare of Mother's and Babies brought
neither gi'eat cheerfulness nor loud wailings
to the Executive Council Chambers the other
day, when the membei’s met in conclave over
the Royal’s affairs. The active woi-k of the
society centres about the Tresillian mother-
craft training homes at Petersham and Wil-
loughby ; at Petersham last year 140 mothers
and 213 babies were in-patients, while the
north-side home treated 117 mothers and 154
babies, and out-patients numbered no fewer
than 6022. There’s good management, too,
at Tresillian, for the expenditure was less
than the receipts by £873. For nearly eight
months there has been (alas!) no subsidy
from the Government, and unless some of the
£3OOO on the draft estimates materialises,
the society trembles for its finances. Still,
a kind of chastened cheerfulness prevailed.
Kiddies’ friend knight Charles Clubbe is
again elected the society’s president, and
Mungo MacCallum’s lady and John Lane
Mullins, M.L.C., are the vice-presidents.
Sydney was shocked the other day when
a cable fx’om Paris announced that a body,
believed to be that of Myra Filhol, wife of
the captain of the Cephee, had been recovered
from the Seine. Before her marriage Mrs.
Filhol was Myra Richardson, daughter of
the Stuart Richardsons, a well-known family
on the North Shore. The wedding took place
last May, Mr. Richardson giving his daughter
awrny. Afterwards the captain, who is deco-
rated with the Legion of Honor, and his bride
sailed for France by the Cephee.
Ngaire Morony, of Cremorne, lightened up
hoary old St. Stephen’s, in Pliillip-street, on
a recent night when, in soft layers of pink
tulle over pink crepe de Chine and a picturc-
liat of pink felt, she stepped up its aisle.
Leslie Raymond Bradley, of Darling Point,
awaited her. A padre brother of the groom
helped Reverend E. A. Ferguson tie the
knot, and later Mr. and Mrs. T. Morony
spread a wedding feast at Burdekin House.
The Australian visit of Chief-Scout
Baden-Powell aiid his lady will be something
in the nature of a ’busman’s holiday. Boy
Scouts and Girl Guides are being rounded
up from every crag and crevice of the State.
Gn March 21 Rand wick racecourse will
seethe with a grand rally of Boy Scouts,
Girl Guides, Brownies, Wolf Cubs and officers.
A programme of buslicraft, ambulance work,
tent-pitching and other scout activities will
then be indulged in for the edification of the
great visitors. They arrive on March !<•
Already the Edgeworth David lady and her
forces are organising a hospitality committee
to provide entertainment for the country
girls and to look after their accommodation.
Lady Game, who is State _ president of the
Girl Guide Association, is giving the arrange-
ments for the corroboree a helping hand.
In response to Mayoress Mrs. Jacksons
coo-ee, the chairs in her Town Hall suite
had a busy afternoon midway through last
wbek. Tlie guests were niostly family
friends, and, though not hilarious, there was
a cheerfulness about the groups that spoke
well for the spirit of a continent studded
with “banks whereon the wild time blows,
to quote a London contemporary. Pink and
red the roses glowed and languished on
mantel and in alcove. Here and there a
great bowl of tiger-lilies added to the vivid
horticultural display, and against this glow-
ing background Mrs. Jackson, smart m black
and white, smiled upon her guests. Daughter
Jean helped with the handshakes in plum-
bago-blue organdie, and later on the Mayor
and Town Clerk Layton looked in on the
company.
Her State Ex. did not, after all, depart
for Maoriland last week. Son Philip and
Miss Crowdy left without her by the Aorangi,
and by now are in Auckland. Rose-
mary, never too robust, was ill, which lias
delayed Lady Game’s departure for some
little time. Sir Philip, down from Sutton
Forest, will be a lonely grass-widower in
the big house, unless he decides to go boy'
scouting again and hobnobs with “Old Bill,”
as he did during the Scout rally at National
Park. -Bill did the cooking, and Bill is a
great raconteur (with a fine war record),
so every morning Sir Philip went around
to help him peel the potatoes. Bill let his
Ex. have the only box to sit on during the
peeling operations.
Mrs. Eve Felstead, who gazes from this
Monteith picture, has revived the gentle art
of patchwork-quilt-making. These quilts,
when great-grandmamma worked them for
her home, were not such haphazard using up
of the contents of rag-bags as we are inclined
to think. They had charm and design, and
the best of
them were
fashioned from
oiled prints.
These oiled
prints are
being manu-
factured once
more in their
old-time pat-
terns, and
lian dicrafters
the world over
are using them
in their deco-
rative schemes.
One quilt
which M r s.
Felstead dis-
played at the
last Arts and
Crafts show
was bought by
Dorothea Mac-
ke 11 ar ; an-
other, for a child’s bed, showed little chil-
dren of all nations. This went to America,
and was one of the reasons which prompted
a special writer of the “Handicrafter” to
ask. the Sydney woman for permission to
write an article about her work and illus-
trate it with photographs. Besides the
quilts Mrs. Felstead makes hooked rugs and
braided rugs. The first can be done in either
wool or rag and are ideal for kiddies’ rooms.
One by this artist represents a log cabin,
light streaming from its window on to the
enveloping snowstorm; another is filled
with figures and flowers, drawn as a small
child might draw them on a slate. The
enterprising worker gets her designs from
every country and clime, some of the quaint-
est coming from Finland. Mrs. Felstead,
who is the wife of a Sydney journalist, has
taken rooms in Burdekin House lodge, and
here she will run a studio and a coffee-house.
The arrival in Sydney of Brigadier-
General Wisdom, Administrator of New
Guinea, coincided with that of a letter from
Mrs. Symington (Margot Cowan), now in
Rabaul, where the Wisdoms had been frolick-
ing through a gay week. Two balls and the
opeuing of the Golf Club at Lakudai were
some of the doings. At the Golf Club the
Administrator made a witty speech, as did
Philip Coote, the club’s president, after
which Mr. Wisdom drove the first ball,
but the stroke was totally eclipsed by the
brilliant shot recorded by the president.
There followed a ball at the Rabaul Hotel,
where jazz was pleasantly punctuated by the
clink of ice against the side of goblets
and the glint of moonlight on the cocoanut
palms. To Sydney with Brigadier-General
and Mrs. Wisdom on the Montoro travelled
Mrs. Lacey.
This Letter called at the National Gallery
last week to pay respects to woolbuyer S. H.
Ervin’s Lacquer Bed. It is doubly not his
bed; because he doesn’t lie in it, it being
a picture, and he didn’t paint it, that having
been done most exquisitely by Russell-Flint.
It seems to be more a lounge than the regu-
lation bed, and has a Chinese red back and
a Chinese red canopy. These reds and the gold
design on them have the air of being mel-
lowed with age. On the hcaped-up cushions
a slim girl in a billow of tulle reclines. One
tiny foot in a green slipper is seen beneath
the froth of skirt, from her bared shoulders
a Chinese shawl is slipping, while heaped
flowers at the foot of the bed testify to an
adorer somewhere on the horizon. The pic-
ture is sheer romance, and for lending it to
the Gallery the owner has earned three
cheers.
Near the entrance the Gallery’s old friend
Howard Hinton is represented by a Michael
Arlenisli composition called “The Nightin-
gale.” As you come in from the Domain on a
sunny afternoon the curtains suggest a
greeny arcade. Beyond them you know is
midsummer night, while within the room a
man and a woman in Conventional evening
dress ate tensed. She sits, hands motion-
less, the coffee cups neglected. He stands
rigid in the background. One feels that
memory is, afoot, to each a memory that
has drawn them seas apart, in spite of the
luxurious moorings of their surroundings.
For eight years Kildare Craven, the girl
in this picture, lias been secretary to the
Royal Society for the Welfare of Mothers
and Babies. The minutes and the correspond-
ence she has
typed in the
course of her
daily round
would overflow
a three-volume
work on the
subject of
better babies.
Of the affairs
of the Tresil-
lian Mother-
craft Training
Schools there
is nothing she
does not know,
and since the
nurses for all
the Govern-
ment baby
health centres
are drawn
from these two
schools, it will
be seen that
Kildare’s job takes a 100 per cent. Aus-
tralian to fill it. The Christian name with
the wreath of shamrocks round it was be-
stowed by a mother whose name was Nora,
which all the world over is regarded as
synonymous with Kildare.
Up in the Chief Secretary’s office the
other day the observant eye was caught by
a long, solid mahogany (or so it seemed)
table, on which at short intervals lay long
slim books in supple black leather. These
were tooled and lettered in gold, very chastely
along the foot, and in the middle of the
cover shone a gold-embossed coat of arms.
John Lane Mullins, who as vice-president,
had been attending the meeting of the Royal
Society for the Welfare of Mothers and
Babies, being questioned, revealed that each
book was a blotter sacred to one special
member of the Executive Council. _ The let-
tering was the name of the Minister and
the department he administers. One ardent
soul picked up every blotter. “Now,” she
said, “I can say I have held every portfolio
in the N.S.W. Government.” Another girl
wqs skittish, and wanted to hold up Mr.
Lang’s blotter, Edg|ir Wallace wise, to the
mirror, to see what weighty secrets might be
revealed. But the blotting-pad was virginal
—such a pity !
Muffs have really materialised in our
midst. They are mostly of black velvet,
oblong in shape and puffed in appearance.
They will be worn in company with the
short black coats that are pinched in at
the waist and flaring as to basque. Last
week the women who will be first with the
goods were busy slipping their digits in
and out of the quaint hand-hobbles that only
a year or two ago we were looking on as
museum pieces.
A city "house has hit on an amusing
scheme to keep its customers interested
throughout a fashion display. Two manne-
quins, naturally or artificially the facsimile
of each other, walked, turned and posed be-
fore the onlookers, dressed exactly alike.
Ann all the time wore expensive imported
model garments; Annette was clad in the
firm’s copies of the same articles, made in
Sydney workrooms by Australian men and
girls, and about one-third the price of the
imported. A demonstration of backgammon,
said to be the latest craze among fashion-
ables overseas, gripped the interest when the
eye grew tired of fashion’s parade.
The achievement of Katerina Nehua in
the swimming endurance contest at Manly
marks her as a worthy descendant of the
chieftainesses of old, who swam the sea of
Ruakawa (Cook’s Strait) when stress of
peril or war drove them to desperate efforts.
One of these was Hinepoupou, who found
comfort in her 30-mile swim from Ivapiti to
Arapawa Island in the company of Pelorus
• Jack, the famous grampus who was regarded
as a god by the Maoris. Hinepoupou’s hus-
band, Maninipounamu, had marooned her
on Kapiti so that he might take another
wife, and with her two dogs the deserted
wife mourned for days on the shore ere
she summoned courage to make the long
swim. The dogs, which funked the trip by
water, were turned into stone, and now form
two prominent rocks on the Kapiti beach.
Her tribal taniwha, Kaikai-o-waro (Pelorus
Jack), answered her prayers, and the story
goes that he “piloted her and bore her up” till
she reached the shore, there to wreak
revenge on her faithless husband.
Our Brisbane Little Sister writes:—
Brisbane, wrecked by the flood of 1893, has had
more than one visitation of the sort since, but none
so threatening as that which, last week inundated
the Brisbane valley and the low-lying parts of the
capital itself. During its run to the sea the big
river takes a most tortuous course through the
city, and it is the banking-up of the tremendous
mass of flood water against - the sharp bends that
causes most of the trouble. Up the river the
alluvial flats are covered with rich dairy and
produce farms. From these, during the week, valu-
able stock and crops were washed headlong, and in
the city many thousands of pounds’ worth of
furniture was destroyed by the rising waters, while
great damage was done to wooden buildings. And
there was loss of life also —in. one case as the
result of a foolhardy attempt to swim the flooded
river. On the Northern Rivers of N.S.W., which
all good Queenslanders look upon as Queensland
territory, there, was also a considerable amount of
destruction.
Perth Zoo has presented Brisbane with two lions,
and a worried Mayor is wondering where to find
quarters for them.' As the city is Zoo-less they will
probably be caged in the Botanic Gardens. Possibly
as a return for the gift, our State Treasurer, “Bishop”
Barnes, took with him t'o Canberra some samples
of Queensland’s crystallised pineapple and a bottle
of rum for presentation to Westralian Prenrer
Mitchell.
Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart celebrated her silver wed-
ding day while she was attending the Federal con-
ference of the National Council of Women at Hobart
as president of the Queensland branch. There were
parties in her honor, and Miss M. A. Ogg presented
her with a pair of serviette-holders on behalf of the
Queensland contingent.
W. H. Cununing, the new general manager at the
Brisbane “Telegraph,’’ was feted by the Queensland
Press Institute in the Criterion. • President A. !■..
Joseph was in the chair, and M. L. Beading and
General Spencer Browne were among the speakers.
Holy Trinity, Valley, saw the wedding of Wilfred
R. Frith, of Wynnum, and Thelma Robertson, only
daughter of L. J. Robertson and the late Mrs. Robert-
son, Teneriffe. The bride, who was given away by her
uncle, J. H. Hill, was in white celanese bridal satin,
with a Honiton-lace veil lined with pale pink tulle.
Dorothy Hooper and Betty Hugall ’maided in salmon-
pink mariette, the cape-collars caught at the back
with Madonna-blue roses, and tulle head-dresses with
blue flowers. The feasting was at the Carlton; the
’moon is being spent on the N.S.W. Northern Rivers.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin arrive in Stan-
thorpe this week, and after opening the show go on
to Terrica station to stay with the Scott McLeods.
The first regatta arranged by the Brisbane Ladies’
Rowing Club since 1922 took place in the rain, but
this didn’t prevent the enthusiasts from gathering
at the O’Connor boathouse,’ North Quay. There was
music between the races; Mrs. 0. Cowlishaw, vice-
president, presented the trophies. The aerial pageant,
dated for the same afternoon, had to be postponed
on account of the soaking rains, but in the evening
at the Carlton Cabaret the crowning of the Air
Queen took place and a dance followed. The com-
petition was held in aid of the provident fund of
the A.F.C. Association, a body of war-time pilots and
members of the Allied air forces, and there weie
eight competitors, Irene Hetherington finishing in
the lead with nearly 30,000 votes. Beatrice Pringle
came second and Doris Martin third.
There have been a number of teas to brides-elect,
including Ethel Campbell, Flora Luck, Ada Hicks and
Ada Utteridge.
At the meeting of the Kennel Association Neil
Macgroarty declared Brisbane’s new dog library open.
Fifty books and about 150 magazines dedicated to
things canine are housed there. W. Proud, past presi-
dent of the Bulldog Club, gave a lecture on the
breed;
At Willard House the first State executive meet-
ing in connection with the W.C.T.U. was held, Mrs.
J. Williams presiding. Lady Aurea McLeod was
appointed representative for Queensland on the
British Commonwealth League in London. Her hus-
band is that dashing soldier Tom McLeod.
A Perth note :
The small boys who climbed into trees to see the
Aero Club’s first Derby did so from choice, for
the Maylands ’drome and its surroundings are well
provided with more comfortable vantage points.
M. L. Whiteman and I. M. Bevan annexed the
Bateman Cup and the Derby respectively. The
Oswald Watt medal was presented to Captain Briggs.
Mrs. C. T. Smith, wife of the club’s president,
handed over the spoil. Among the spectators were
the Mayor with his wife and daughter, Miss Tonkin
(in cream trousers and shirt), who flew in a semi-
final during the morning, Dr. Kershaw, who accom-
panied Mrs. Marshall, the James Dimmitt couple,
Bernie Reid, the Stan Burridges, Mrs. Norman
Brearley and Mrs. Stan Brearley, Commander and
Mrs. Griffith Bowen and Colonel and Mrs. Collett.
As a direct result of the galloping exchange
rates, Helen Vincent, of Peppermint Grove, un-
willingly packed her. music and lecture books on
domestic science and French and came home on the
Orontes. A further six months in Paris would have
completed her “finishing-off” abroad.
Mrs. F. Mair invited some of Mollie Beck’s friends
to have tea and to bring a piece of kitchenware
for the bride-to-be. Mrs. Mair wore a flowered
frock, and Miss Beck’s blue crepe was spotted with
white.
Mrs. Walter Mcßostie handed round tea and cakes
at the Karrakatta Club in honor. of her daughter
Mrs. Foster, of Malacca, and Mrs. Usher and Mrs.
Gibson, of Singapore. Amber# georgettes were
chosen by Mrs. Foster; the other two guests favored
pink and blue patternings upon crepe de Chine
and white ninon respectively. Mrs. Mcßostie looked
nice in raspberry satin and black millinery.
After five years’ absence, Canon Henn has returned
to Australia as acting warden of the new St.
George’s College. In his honor 100 old Guildfordians
dined and smoked a pipe at the Esplanade. Mrs.
Henn has not yet sailed from the Cold Land.
Captain John Barrett and his wife returned to
their native land by the Orontes. Captain Barrett
topped the list in the Staff Corps exam, for 1928,
which entitled him to two years at Camberley.
After three weeks as the guests of Mrs. Fred
Hammond, the couple will catch the Cathay for
Melbourne and attach themselves to a sadly-depleted
Defence Department.
Fairways have lost their bright emerald hue and
sand and grass-seeds make heavy going in the
rough of metropolitan golf links, but the Albany
course is fresh and green as ever. Visitors to that
cool spot divide their time between golf and
swimming at Middleton. In the mixed foursomes
handicap, Miss Inverarity and E. Levinson returned
the best card, while Mrs. McMillan, partnered by
Father Reidy, had the best gross score.


fd
MURDOCH’S 37/6
This famous Hat, of undisputed quality, has B f-
sliced off, and presents an excellence hitherto
impossible at the price. Stylish “Snap Brims”
and roll edge “Prince” or “Nail Curl” shapes.
Shades of Fawn, Beaver and three tones of Grey.
27(6 Panamas now
An after-Sale clearance of genuine finely-
woven South American Panamas, Folder
or Alpine shapes—so light and cool;
to 2|-in. rims; black silk bands.
21 1-
We pay freight.
If writing, kindly address your letter to Desk “R”
MURDOCH’S HATS
Park and George Streets, Sydney.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Principal Sydney Office 342 George Street
Capital Paid Up - - - £5,000,000
Reserve Fund (used in the Business) £5,200,000
The knowledge gained through seventy-two
years’ experience of Australian banking is
made available to the clients of the National
Bank by means of a chain of 473 branches
and offices distributed through the States of the
Commonwealth.
The banking requirements of farmers, graziers,
manufacturers, builders, traders, merchants,
workers, tourists, settlers and all other sections
of the community are met by a full range of
facilities, equally available to all persons,
whether their means be great or small.
Its arrangements for transacting Foreign Busi-
ness have been widely extended, and, in
addition to the two offices in London, the
Bank has Agents in every city of business
importance in the world.
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £45,000,000
STOVES AND RANGES
DOVER
Our big assortment includes
THE HIBISCUS DOVER
No. 7 84/- each
No. 8 94/- each
If elevated Legs, 10/- extra.
Enamelled Splash Back, 27/6 extra.
Other brands of Dovers, 5/- less.
Write for list—we allow 10 per cent,
discount off any Makers’ List.
BARB WIRE
PIG WIRE
NETTING
ACCUMULATORS—
MOTOR-CAR BATTERIES
MIDGET GOLF
CREAM CANS
HIBISCUS COLD SAFES
VENUS MOTOR SPIRIT
VENUS POWER
KEROSENE
SISALKRAFT
TARPAULINS
Special offer this month —Competitive Barb, 4 coils mile, 12jg.,
20/- per coil. Send cash with order.
Hibiscus Hinge Joint, 32in.. at 45/- per 5-ehain roll.
36in. x 2in. x 19 gauge, at 9/- per roll of 50 yards.
—-6-volt. “The Lion” -
“The Hibiscus” £3/10/-
As direct Agents for the Factory you get these low prices.
Guaranteed 18 months. Write for full list.
If you ai'e interested in complete sets—we have the whole outfit
for 9-hole outside Golf. Price £95 complete. Write for details.
The Hibiscus Tinned Steel Seamless Cans —we are still selling at:
2gal., 14/-; 3gal., 15/-; 4gal., 15/9; sgal., 18/-; 6gal., 20/-;
Bgal., 22/-; lOgal., 25/- each.
No ice required, keeps food fresh and cool.
Size “A” —18in. x 18in. x 33in. High oOf- each
Size “B” —24in. x 24in. x 39in. High "of- each
In drums, 2/1 per gallon.
In drums, 1/2 per gallon.
In cases, 12/6 per case. . , _. . ,
A new waterproof material for covering Haystacks, Sheds, etc.
It is a substitute for canvas. We have been appointed sole .agents.
Write for booklet and samples. In rolls, all widths, price 9d.
per square yard. Cut pieces, 1/- per square yaid.
W r e mention a few sizes:
18oz. Green Waterproof: 18in. x 15in.
15oz. White Duck: 14in. x 16in.
16in. x 18in.
18in. x 20in.
20in. x 24in.
20in. x 30in.
21oz. White Duck: 16in. x 14in.
16in. x 18in.
18in. x 20in.
90/- each
70/- each
87/6 each
110/- each
150/- eacli
200/- each
80/- each
110/- each
135/- each
Lowest also for Galv.-iron and all Building Lines —Tents —Furniture Salt
Tea—Motor Oils—Kitchenware —Machinery.
Write for 176-page illustrated catalogue. It will save you POUNDS.
DIRECT CASH BUYERS ALL WOOL, HIDES, SKINS,
ETC. WRITE FOR DETAILS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Paramount’s “The Playboy of Paris,” at
Sydney Prince Edward is a talkie version of
Tristan Bernard’s musical comedy “The
Little Cafe.” Maurice Chevalier is prac-
tically the only one who counts in the
film, and despite his effervescence there are
discordant intervals and periods of heaviness.
Maurice is Albert, a free-and-easy waiter.
He is dissatisfied with his job, hopelessly iu
love with a blonde female customer with an
American twang, and a thorn in the side
ef the cafe proprietor and his captivating
scold of a daughter. At this juncture Albert
inherits a million francs from a previous
employer, but- before the glad news comes to
him he has been tricked, while tipsy, into
signing a contract with the boss which stipu-
lates that if either breaks it he must pay
the other four hundred thousand francs. This
document is pushed under Albert’s nose just
as the brand-new capitalist is about to untie
his waiter’s apron, and rather than sacrifice
two-fifths of his fortune he decides to keep
his job. In pursuit of the blonde he flings
his money about at night clubs. Mean-
while he invites the sack by clowning
customers off the premises and smashing no
end of crockery; but all to no purpose. The
boss and his daughter seek to get even by
visiting his favorite night club and giv-
ing him away before his new-found
friends, and in the subsequent mix-up Albert
knocks out a distinguished guest. This
involves him in an early-morning duel, from
which he extricates himself with no great
credit; but compensation comes when the
daughter discovers that her father’s waiter
is the only man in the world for her. Aus-
tralia’s O. P. Heggie is good as the old cafe-
keeper ; the other characters matter little,
and the songs, generally a feature of
Chevalier pictures, aren’t worth trying to
memorise.
* * *
An excellent British film is B.D.F.’s
“French Leave,” shown at Sydney Lyceum ;
it is adapted from R. C. Berkeley’s stage
play of the same name, in which the late
Emelie Polini appeared. A Tommy regiment
is spelling from the trenches in a rest area,
and the officers are billeted in a cottage
brightened by the presence of Julie, osten-
sibly the adopted daughter of the landlady.
An amazed company commander recognises
the girl as his wife, whom he had left behind
in London. The lady, it seems, grew tired
of knitting socks and selling buttons on the
home front, and became Julie to.be near her
husband. Complications . ai’ise when the
other members of the mess, from a peppery
general downwards, pursue her in the
belief that she is unattached. Madeline Car-
roll, who showed her quality in “Young Wood-
ley” and “The W Plan,” makes a charming
Julie, Sidney Howard as Corporal Sykes is
capital throughout, and Arthur Clxesney as
the diminutive general with the bull-like roar
provides laughs in plenty. The film is well
worth a visit.
‘'The Virtuous Sin,” at Sydney Capitol,
is an unimportant plater out of Para-
mount’s stable. It is burdened with an
antiquated plot and swings from melodrama
to farce and back again in disconcerting
fashion. The scene is set in pre-Bolshevik
Russia and the story is about a young militia
lieutenant who, before he donned uniform,
was a shining light in the medical world. He
loathes soldiering and pines to be back in
his laboratory, but the domineering General
Gregori Platoff frowns upon his subaltern’s
passion for tinkering with test tubes and will
not hear of releasing him from military ser-
vice. The young man is in danger of being
shot at dawn, when liis charming young
wife appears, obtains an introduction to
the general, bowls that stern-faced war-
rior over with her winning ways, and
finally secures permission for the lieu-
tenant to return to his medical re-
searches. Both Kay Francis, who vamps
to save her husband’s life, and Walter Hus-
ton, the vamped general, were badly cast.
Kenneth McKenna was more at home as
the husband.
H* % H*
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer’s “Remote Control,”
released at Sydney Regent, is a breezy and
quick-moving though not very convincing
story about a happy-go-lucky radio-announcer
who is responsible for the rounding up of a
gang of bank-robbers. William Haines plays
the sparkling and übiquitous William Judge
Brennan, who monopolises the microphone at
WPN, a broadcasting station which, before
he joins it, is languishing because of in-
ferior programmes. William finds his way
to Station WPN by the simple process of
following a pretty girl who lias entered the
music-store at which he is employed. He
runs his quarry down, to discover that she
is Marion Ferguson, sister of an old friend
who has the job of converting WPN from
a losing into a paying proposition. William,
with the winning of Marion in view, promptly
offers his assistance, and practically appoints
himself as the station’s announcer. Another
addition to the staff who arrives on William’s
heels is Professor Kruger, an alleged clair-
voyant who broadcasts spiritualistic mes-
sages. Actually, the professor is the
leader of a garig of thieves at present lying
low in consequence of police attentions.
Kruger uses his role of radio-lecturer to issue
instructions over the air to his widely-scat-
tered gang under cover of messages to _ lis-
teners-in. His activities arouse the suspicions
of William, who is already antagonised by
the professor’s attentions to Marion. The
station is held up by the gang and the
announcer spirited away in order to make it
appear that it is he who has planned the
hold-up and bolted with the loot. Kruger
plans to further incriminate William by
robbing a bank and leaving him on the
premises, but the young man gets word
through to the police, who frustrate these
knavish tricks in the nick of time. Mary
Doran makes an appealing Marion, and John
Miljan a realistically rascally Kruger.


Under*
Royal
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesTleidsieck;
SHIMS ’
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY. >
ToH.NL
George V
champagne
Charieslleidsic^
Heims
“MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
ď
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career now. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Patents.
CORRUGATED METAL CULVERTS.
npHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 6551/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney. (Box 2133 L, G.P.0., Sydney.)
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Missing: Friends.
YY/ILL anyone knowing the whereabouts
of JOSEPH DUGGAN, last heard of
in Queensland about 1913, who is a son of
the late Elizabeth Duggan, of Young, New
South Wales, and a nephew of Grace O’Con-
nell, formerly ai hotelkeeper in Melbourne,
Victoria, communicate with H. H. HOARE,
Solicitor, 440 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
"W/ILL JEFITRIES CUBIS or his wife,
parents of Maude Angelia Saunders,
formerly Webb, or anyone knowing their
whereabouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
j. o. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: LILAC TIME.
CRITERION; ON THE SPOT.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
SONS O’ GUNS.
COMEDY THEATRE:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER.
O ICK.ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY, at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents
MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE FILM GIRL,
With a Brilliant Cast of Popular Favorites.
Popular Pre-war Prices.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckleu's
Bliza bet'lmn
Tea Rooms
[?]
Bu[?]y Nu[?], [?] mitod.
[?]
The bay around Williamstown was a deep
blue fluffed with white on Saturday, when
the Williamstown Racing Club held its
summer meeting. The weather was pleasant,
though the breeze was a trifle chilly. The
course had a well-groomed appearance, the
green sward being dotted with beds of phlox,
with masses of ferns and crimson begonias
in the rockeries. There was a parade of
pretty frocks and some of the feminine race-
goers sported dainty sunshades. Mrs. Rogers
Thomson held over her bottle-green turnout
a tiny umbrella of petunia tint. Mrs. J. F.
Nagle, wife of the secretary of the club, was
in cigar-brown gown and millinery. She
was accompanied by her mother, Mrs. Cox, of
Lockhart, who is spending a few weeks in
Melbourne. Mrs. J. Fell, of Cliveden Man-
sions, whose husband is part-owner of Domin-
ant, came with her daughter, Mrs. Jervis
Crespin, wbo wore navy-blue georgette with a
black hat. Mrs. L. Aldridge was in white and
blue chiffon with a shady hat. Mrs. A. Y.
Kewney chose light raiment of flowered ninon
iu tones of black and green allied to a black
straw hat. Mrs. J. Dobson was attired in a
green and white patterned silk frock and
Mrs. Russell Gabb’s ensemble was a tiny
check of periwinkle blue and white. Mrs.
Alan Currie attended with her husband to
see the running of their sprinter Teucer,
which was not placed. Mrs. Ben Chaffcy,
Mrs. J. H. Moss, Mrs. T. Y. Millea, Mrs.
Keith Aikman and Mrs. B. Cowen, the last-
named smart in apricot-colored frock with a
cream coat and beret, were among patrollers
of the lawn.
When J. O. Smith’s play “Sunnyside” was
presented at the Bijou on Saturday night
Lord Somers and Sir Alexander Hore-Ruth-
ven were in the audience and Society was
present in force. Side-shows were a flower-
stall and lollipop booth, and some of our
naicest young people peddled sweets in tiny
bucket-shaped cartons dolled up with black,
white and green, the racing colors of Lord
Somers. Programmes at a shilling each were
sold by young men who move in the most
exclusive circles. The object was to help
wipe out the debt that hangs over Lord
Somers’s holiday camp for boys at East Bal-
narring. A committee of about 30 women
headed by Mrs. Harry Emmerton as presi-
dent, with Mrs. F. W. Eggleston and Mrs.
T. H. Laby as joint hon. secs., and Ivy Ball
and R. G. Baxter looking after the trea-
sury, organised the show.
The crowded house was as much a tribute
to the Governor’s popularity as to the merit
of the cause, in addition to which there was
considerable interest in Mr. Smith’s comedy,
which is adapted from his play “Before the
Dawn.” Additions to the entertainment
were camp songs by some of the “Somers
boys,” who had seats in the gallery, and
some movies of scenes of camp life. Near
the vice-regal reserve were Mrs. Emmerton,
who had a silvery gleaming wrap over her
black gown, the Robert Bests and the
Harrison Moores, the Allen lady, Prof, and
Mrs. Laby, Mary Emmerton and Dr.
McAdam. Among the sales-ladies were
Mrs. George Langridge, Marie and Vera de
Bavay, Molly Gibson, the two Best girls,
Ivathieen Ahern and many other sweet young
things, all charmingly dressed in chiffon or
billows of tulle.
In the company of amateurs that played
the comedy were Maisie Bennett, Dorothy
Smith (daughter of the author), Jessie Wil-
son and Miss E. M. Punshon. Gland Thomas
w T as producer and took the role of a curate.
Staging and dressing were well done. Cries
of “author” brought Mr. Smith forward to
thank audience and performers. There was
a generous distribution of flowers to the
ladies of the cast.
If you want to buy cheaply in Melbourne
the place to go to is the Victoria Markets.
When the Chatterer went there on
Friday evening what looked like acres of
fruit and vegetables were spread out, and
prices were so low that it seemed a wonder
that fruiterers’ and greengrocers’ shops
in other parts of the city could keep their
dcors open. Tomatoes of the best were sell-
ing at four pounds for 6d., and on some stalls
they could be bought for Id. a pound. Equaiiy
cneap were beans, peas and other greens. But
these marts don’t confine themselves to the
vegetable kingdom. Separated by a lane
from the produce section are immense sheds
where you can buy anything from a Cray-
fish to an evening gown. Among the goods
displayed were fur coats, silk-lampshades,
garden-pottery, colored statuary and wedding-
wreaths. There were many shoe-stalls and
hosiery of all grades and children’s clothing
were on view—all incredibly low in price.
Especially attractive were tne flower stalls,
which offered packets of seed, great bunches of
tiger-lilies, pots of tuber-begonias, sheaves of
gladioli and a wealth of other flowers in
cut, seedling or potted form. In another part
love-birds and puppies, all alive-oh, and just
longing to be someone’s pet (that only refers
to the pups, of course) were obtainable.
Groceries, dressed poultry, cake and pastry
were invitingly shown on neat marble-fronted
stalls served by assistants clad in white.
Also there’s a second-hand section which, as
the estate-agents say, “will well repay in-
spection.” The shoppers were an orderly,
well-behaved crowd, and though a great deal
of pushing and scrooging is unavoidable in
the narrow alleyways, everyone seemed good-
natured and reasonable. Of course there were
beggars. Here and there a gramophone
tended by a care-worn man groynd out some
popular melody and there was a scattering
of minstrels with fiddle, tin-whistle or other
instrument. A group of choristers assembled
round a portable organ lifting unmelodious
voices in hymns. A youth on a soap-box
juggled with oranges to the intense delight
of a horde of small boys. Everywhere there
were babies in prams, and prettier, better-
cared for infants it wrnuld have been difficult
to find.
Allans are publishing two books of Aus-
tralian songs, the work of Mrs. A. M. Kauff-
mann, professionally known as Linda Phil-
lips. These, for which the young composer
has written both words and melodies, are
“Outback Songs” for baritone voice, and
“Bush Lyrics” for soprano.
At Stonington the other day Lord Somers
launched a campaign for the collection of
£50,000 for the Royal Victorian Institute
for the Blind and the Association for the
Advancement of the Blind. The R.V.1.8.
can never be self-supporting, for though
its proteges work at various crafts they
are unable to keep up in the race with the
unhandicapped, and they are all paid a living-
wage. His Ex. remarked that not since Lord
Brassey’s time, 30 years ago, had such a call
gone out from Government House. The
cause was also supported by the Lud Mayor,
Archbishop Head, George Maxwell, M.H.R.,
who has been blind for ten years, and
others. An auxiliary of women helpers, with
branches in many suburbs, headed by the
respective mayoresses, is planning means to
raise funds.
This is J. O. Smith, author of “Sunny-
si d e,” the
comedy pro-
duced at the
Bijou Theatre
for three
nights to pay
off the debt on
Lord Somers’s
holiday camp
for boys at
East Balnar-
ring. “Sunny-
side” is not
Mr. Smith’s
first essay as a
p 1 a y wright.
He has writ-
ten five plays,
all of which
have been per-
formed. Apart
from his dra-
matic activi-
ties, he is a
company direc-
tor; in fact, he has varied business interests.
Pianist Edward Cahill’s recital at Mrs.
Harry Emmerton’s home, Raveloe, .was a
very smart social function. The ballroom
was decorated with magnificent flowers, and
supper was provided for the audience of
about 200. Lord Somers and Chief Justice
Irvine, who was accompanied by his lady,
were in the front row. In a halo of rose-
shaded lights surrounded by hydrangeas of
every color, gladioli and foliage leaning from
brass bowls on tall stands, the player and
his piano were stationed on a dais with a
.background of white and scarlet curtains.
He drew from the works of Schumann,
Brahms, Beethoven, Schubert and Chopin,
with a waltz of Strauss and a couple of
short Russian pieces. In the supper-room
water-lilies and pastel-tinted dahlias were
charmingly mingled. Mrs. Emmerton wore
a black-satin gown beneath a white kimono;
like wrap embroidered with a peacock and a
flight of butterflies. Her daughter, Mrs.
Norman Brookes, had a short powder-blue
moire coat over her white chiffon frock; and
Mary Emmerton was in lengthy draperies
of georgette of petunia shade. Mr. and Mrs.
J. G. Latham, General Chauvel and his lady,
Harrison Moore and his lady and Captain
and Mrs. Cyril Benson were in the audience.
Mrs Norton Grimwade sported a wrap of
black satin adorned with a design in cherry
blossom and gold birds. Mrs. James Alston,
Mrs. Chris Cowper, Mrs. George Brooke,
Mrs. F. W. Eggleston and Mrs. Allen
Robertson were also there.
The wedding of Patricia, only daughter of
the A. R. Lemprieres, of South Yarra, and
Robin Charles Todliunter, at All Samts,
St. Kilda, was a white-and-blue affair. Bride
and attendants wore white silk net that
fluted and flared from tight-fitting bodices
to the toes. The leading lady’s train was of
old Brussels lace, over which coursed tone
descending from a cap of orange buds. She
carried a prayer-book decked with sprays
of orange blossom and satin streamers. Iho
’maids : Ailsa Macdonald, cousin of the bride ;
Pat Peterson, daughter of the Alex. Peter-
sons, of Toorak; and Mary Murray, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Murray, of this city,
sported shoes, large velvet hats and narrow
sashes of delphinium hue. Eve, youngest
chick of General Chauvel and his lady, and
Rhoda, daughter of Mrs. Guy Smith, were
the trainbearers. Their white-and-blue
apparel was topped by wreaths of blue
flowers. After the ceremony there were re-
joicings at Pemberley, Toorak-road, the home
of the Rupert Greenes, which is occupied dur-
ing Mrs. Greene’s absence abroad by Mrs.
Claude Macdonald.
P r i n c ipal
player in Lucy
Ahon’s produc-
tion of “Alice
in Wonder-
land” was
Edna Thomas,
pictured here
by Lafayette.
She was the
D u c h e s s.
Gladys Kenn
as the Reel
Queen, Eileen
Hastings as
the Cook,
Marion Steel
as Alice and
Barbara Steel
as the March
Hare caught
the spirit of
the fantasy. • - , .
Mrs. William Dalrymple, who died m
London a few days ago, resided for some years
in Toorak, and previous to that in Queens-
land. With her daughter Molly she set out
last year on a holiday tour of Europe. Influ-
enza was the cause of death.
One of the few social events of a very
dull week was an afternoon reception
arranged by Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Gibson as
a wedding-day anniversary celebration. The
party assembled at the Malvern home of the
A. E. Kimptons, who are at present abroad.
Mrs. Gibson, who was Marjorie Ivimpton,
is their daughter; she wore a flowered blue
pussy-willow gown.. Dr. and Mrs. Ruther-
ford, of Sydney, the George Bells couple
and Dr. and Mrs. W. Davenport were guests.
The knot-tying at St. John’s, Toorak, of
his nephew Lockhart Little . and Rhoda
Robertson drew South Australia’s Ex., Sir
Alexander Hore-Ruthven, to Melbourne.
Owing to the recent death of the bridegroom’s
father, Brigadier-General. Malcolm O. Little,
of Rugby, England, the ceremony on Thurs-
day was not a fussy affair, and was fol-
lowed by a quiet tea-party at Menzies’ at
which relatives and 'a few old friends con-
gratulated the just-wedded. The tall, slim
bride, daughter of the Clive Robertsons, of
Warrawong, Melton South, had no attend-
ant maids. A veil of rare old lace lent by
her aunt, Mrs. Fred Fairbairn, cascaded
from a Russian coronet of orange blossoms
over a simply-cut pearl-white satin gown,
and she held a posy of orange buds. Mrs.
Robertson’s gown of faintest pink was
topped by a black hat, and her daughter
Jess sported figured green chiffon and a
straw hat. Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven,
George Fairbairn and his lady, A. Brassey,
Mrs. W. St. L. Robertson and Mrs. Fred
Fairbairn were among the guests.
Poor Pavlova is the subject of many
reminiscences on the part of those who
met her during her two tours of Aus-
tralia. Stanley Parker, the black-and-white
artist, who did many head studies of the
famous dancer, tells of an occasion when
Chaliapin was in this city at the same time
as Anna. One eveninsr the basso went round
to His Majesty’s with a basket of violets
for her. Handing them over he said, with
a twinkle in his eye—these Russians have
a sense of humor —“From the world’s great-
est singer undoubtedly to probably the
world’s greatest dancer.” Pavlova accepted
the gift with a smile, and, turning to Parker,
who was sketching her, passed the flowers on
to him with the remark “To the world’s
greatest artist possibly. —if you work.”
The Rev. Dr. Law, of St. John’s, Toorak,
and Mrs. Law entertained a party at tea
the other afternoon in honor of Dr.; Law's
son Noel and Marjorie Edmondson, whose
marriage is to take place this month. Guests
were mainly friends of the family. The
hostess was in chenille-embossed georgette of
wood-brown hue, with straw millinery, and
Miss Edmonson was a study in pale green.
Lord Somers sailed for Hobart on Friday
to play in exhibition matches of royal
tennis, his partner in the doubles being the
Melbourne professional Woolner Stone. The
capital of the Apple Isle and this city are
said to be the only places in Australia where
the ancient form of the racquet game is
indulged in. R. C. Todhunter, who married
Pat Lempriere last week, was Victoria's
champion, being the holder of the Gold Rac-
quet, which is now to be again competed for.
A line from Adelaide :
There was quite a crowd at the Tattersall’s Club
meeting at Victoria Park. Women were admitted
free to the Derby stand, and through a member a
ticket could be purchased for 45., so the fair sex
largely predominated. Chairman P. J. Flannagan
and daughter Eileen Flannagan did the honors.
His Ex. was there; so was the Speck’s late
Governor and his daughter, who have since left for
England by the Ulysses. Miss O’Grady was a
striking looking girl in a red crepe de Chine frock
and a close-fitting black hat. Miss Flannagan chose
a beige tailored suit and a small hat to match.
It drizzled with rain the whole afternoon. The
Mayor and Mayoress were on view after a fort-
night spent with their daughter, Mrs. Keith Pavy,
at Narraeoorte.
Mr. and Mrs. R." Cowan have returned to
Flinders (Vic.) naval base, after being the guests
of Mrs. Cowan’s sisters, Mrs. E. A. Brooks, Buckland
Park, and Mrs. N. Millard, Henley Beach.
Two very popular young people have just an-
nounced their engagement: the only daughter of the
Cathedral organist, J. M. Dunn, and the young
lawyer Donnell Downey, who was recently appointed
associate to Judge Angus Parsons. His father is
head of the Adelaide Mental Hospital.
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth N. Steele and their
daughter Mary have returned to Glenelg after a
motor tour of Victoria and New South Wales.
The Bishop of Adelaide, with Mrs. Nutter Thomas
and family, is holidaying at Brighton.
And a letter from Hobart: —
Summer arrived in time for the Cup, and Elwick
was a picture. The attendance and the tote were
both affected ■by the depression, but everybody
present had a holiday feeling. Chairman Thos.
Lyons and Mrs. Lyons, the latter in a very smart
turnout of black crepe satin, worn with a lace-
lined black baku hat, entertained a throng of guests
at tea, and were overwhelmed with congratulations
on the winning of the Cup by Mr. Lyons’s horse
Royal Simon. In the stand and about the lawn
one saw Mrs. Evans, wife of the Admiral, in
flowered blue chiffons (she presented the Cup to
Mr. Lyons during the afternoon), and the Lieut.-
Gov. and his lady, the latter in heavy black satin
with a toqueish affair of black velvet on her
auburn hair. Others noted were Mrs. Walter Marks
and Miss Marks, the Eustace Camerons, Mrs. T. W.
H. Clarke (Quom), knight Elliott Lewis and his
lady, the D. C. Lewises and daughter Margaret,
Mrs. Tom Murdoch (very smart in a black-and-white
checked ensemble), the Alan Camerons, the R. U.
Fields, Mrs. E. H. Webster, the W. B. Propstings,
Commandant and Mrs. Cox Taylor, Dr. and Mrs. C.
N. Atkins, Commander, Mrs. and Miss Symonds,
Adrian Knox, the Fred Grants, the James Murrays,
Dr. and Mrs. James Sprent and the Alan Walkers.
Among the younger crowd were the Francis Fosters,
the Tom Giblins, the Alan Millers, the F. X. de
Bavays, Mrs. Sam Cox (Sydney), Misses Wren
(Melbourne), Lois Ritchie, the Giblin girls, Cynthia
Cameron, Helen and Alison Gray, the W. D.
McMinns, Mrs. E. A. Rogers, Mrs. Scott-Reid, Dr.
and Mrs. R. Whishaw, Sybil Lyons, Naomi Kennedy,
Lieut.-Commander and Mrs. Paul Hirst, Margaret
Peacock, Judith Brown (Q.), Carline Reid, Mrs.
Haddon Cave, the Dudley Ransomes and Dr. and
Mrs. Frank Fay. Dr. G. E. Clemons, chairman
of the T.T.C., and Mrs. Clemons were among
visitors from the North.
Steeplechase Day saw as good an attendance as
that for the Cup, but the weather was blustery
and the dressing ran more to tailored suits and
coats, with small hats. The Brush Steeplechase
was won by Exclusive, owned by Mr. H. Stubbs, of
Alverstone.
Mayor Boatwright and his lady opened the big
fete in aid of the Sanatorium in Launceston. Mrs.
Sutton lent her beautiful grounds in Elphin-road
for its setting. The stalls were on the lawns, and
one of the attractions was the open-air dancing of
Daisy Bell’s pupils. The Corricks made the music.
Biologist J. Thomson Flynn, the Speck’s only-
professor with sartorial as well as scientific tastes,
has gained a grant from the Rockefeller Fonnda-
tion, and has been appointed Hon. Research Assistant
at the University of London. He has also been
invited to lecture at Cambridge.
Mrs. Arndell Lewis brought out all the best china
and dusted the period furniture at the christening
of her new home, Abernant House, Holebrook-place.
About a hundred guests filled the big reception-room
and wandered through the rest of the premises.
The hostess received in a full-length frock of lido-
blue flowered chiffon, topped by a big picture hat.
Her mother, Mrs. Hungerford, the Lewis lady and
Mrs. Cyril Lewis helped do the honors.
Mollie, daughter of the Douglas Fitzgeralds,
Wentworth-street, and Professor Taylor, of the Tas.
University, are two of the latest candidates for the
matrimonial stakes.
Farewells to Margaret O’Grady were many and
various in the last week before her departure for
Melbourne, where she joined her father on board
the Ulysses. The Grays, Helen and Alison, Mrs.
Arthur Giblin and others hostessed at bridge- and
tea-parties.


Exchange Artificially Fixed Below Its
Natural Level Robs Primary Producers
IT IS IN DANGER OF BEING SO FIXED NOW.
Australian Primary Producers’ costs have been inflated by Protective Tariffs,
Industrial and other legislation, and artificial charges for every service
rendered them.
They cannot pass on these high costs, for they sell their produce at world
market prices. An exchange rate taking its course naturally enables them
to recover some of the high costs, for it gives them the true value of their
produce abroad.
We can imprint any figure we like on our paper money and with it pay our-
selves such wages as we think fit. We try expensive social experiments and
innovations not in vogue elsewhere.
Thus we fix the value of money in Australia.
Other countries with whom we compete and to whom we sell have not fixed
their costs so high. Less of their money will buy as much as ours, and so
it is worth more. When our Producers sell their product for this money
abroad, the difference between its value and ours belongs to them. Any
attempt to deprive them of it by legally fixing the rate of exchange would
* be legalised theft.
It is being said that even with the exchange at the present high rate, Primary
Producers are not getting this difference. This is mainly propaganda.
A free exchange rate finding its natural level will give to the Primary Pro-
ducers the true value of their produce.
Every Primary Producer should realise the danger and insist that his Parlia-
mentary Representatives and Organisations support Free Exchange.
If exchange rates are artificially fixed below their natural level, Primary Pro-
ducers will be deprived of just so much of the world value of their produce.
They will not be able to compete with Producers of other countries and the
recovery of the whole country will be delayed.
THIS ADVERTISEMENT IS INSERTED BY
TOOWOOMBA FOUNDRY CO., LTD.,
Toowoomba.
And at Rockhampton and Townsville.
SOUTHERN CROSS WINDMILLS PTY., LTD.,
Elliot Lane, off Little Lonsdale Street, South Melbourne.
đf
SOUTHERN CROSS WINDMILL CO., LTD..
Campbell Street, St. Peters, N.S.W.
SOUTHERN CROSS WINDMILL CO. (W.A.), LTD.,
Maylands, Perth, W.A.
MANUFACTURERS IN AUSTRALIA OF
SOUTHERN CROSS
WINDMILLS INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES MILKING MACHINES
WELL-BORING MACHINERY WELL-BORING TOOLS
PUMPS AND FARM AND PASTORAL WATER SUPPLY EQUIPMENT
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION


Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COI.LINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122, Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
GOO INCREASE
in one month
in one city alone!
Established
1849.
Che Brisbane (Courier
is increasing its leadership in all parts of
Queensland —the public support extended
to the State’s oldest and most influential
newspaper is growing greater each month.
News and features from the Courier do
not now appear in any country newspaper,
and country residents are therefore
demanding The Brisbane Courier more
insistently than ever before.
So if you want Queenslanders to buy
YOUR goods the quickest and most
effective way to reach the largest number
of prospective purchasers is to advertise in
QThe Brisbane Courier
The Courier
Building,
Brisbane,
Queen-street,
ROBT.
Sydney Representative:
D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agent: H. C. GRELLIER, 173
Fleet-street.
Übe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion” is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
02
BRIDGING ALL SEAS
IT
0
LINKING CONTINENTS
U.S.A., CANADA, EUROPE,
via the South Seas
Hawaii Fiji Tahiti—
Raratonga—New Zealand
Through Bookings with
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., '
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Agents, ‘
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
d
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
AND UNION ROYAL MAIL UNIS
Visit the Beautiful Solomons.
Lazy Days for Vacation Delights.
A happy, carefree cruise to an ideal holiday
land I For rest, for play, for thrilling new
experiences.... colorful native life and customs,
quaint tribal dances, gorgeous scenery and
flowers, coral lagoons.... outrigger canoeing,
morning dips in cool jade-green waters. And
always you return from exotic delights to the
palatial modern comfort of the
S.S. MATARAM.
Next Sailing, February 18, March 81, 1931.
Write for Leaflet No. 52/S.
Burns, Philp & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, etc.
Ask for
the “B. P. Magazine,’*
1/- per copy.
«
,
•
SM
m
riWvi ■
WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE YORK HARROGATE EDINBURGH
and other beautiful Cathedral Cities. Theses are on the
LONDON AND NORTH EASTERN RAILWAY
the track of the “Flying Scotsman.” Illustrated Booklets gladly supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 7-11 Bridge Street, Sydney, and all branches, or
L.N.E.R. West End Offices, 71 Regent Street and 59 Piccadilly, London W.l.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
f
d
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 .. •• •• •• £89,228,378
General Manager f ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office* George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
.
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&C?td
if you have
Woot & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Sired. Sydney.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
HAIR,
P
need
HERES
•umu -
-
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the. privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&cUlvns CMEXICAN)
Ukutnu tStoJun.
♦-REMOVES THE OREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBUUY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct HI6), 6d. being postage.
fp
TQ
t
m
c o»*
A pictorial
guide to
America
FasciNatiNC this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for,
your copy.
Write to Dept. M3B,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ďf
Soap and
Ointment
Protect You Against
Skin Troubles
Use the Soap every day, it
is antiseptic and healing, as
well as cleansing. An oc-
casional application of
Cuticura Ointment
assists in keeping the skin
clear and healthy.
Soap le. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is.3d.
Sample each free.
A ddrtvts! R.Tnwns& f!n..Svdiiev.TV. S.W.
d
% ✓
ry
H
ii
NARCH
Cig&fy.
Craig kAitken
Wholesale
Distributor.*’
Sidney N.5.W


H
m
i
MOUNTAIN PEAKS
for splendid sport
and climbing
LMOST the entire length of the South Island stretches
■*-*- the great range of the Southern Alps. Giant, snow-
clad peaks are lifted high : huge glaciers and icefalls move
slowly down their granite sides. Come to Mount Cook in
the South, or the Tongariro National Park in the North for
snowsports of riotous fun, with modern hostels of perfect
comfort to give you a cosy ending to each glowing day.
And, for the alpinist, Professer F. Schaffer, of Vienna, says,
“ I have seen the greater part of the mountain ranges of
the world. The Southern Alps belong to the very best
that exist. The Alps are the most imposing in the world.”
Come to
NEW ZEAIA
FILL IN THIS COUPON
and post it addressed to —N.Z.
Govt. Office, Martin Place, Sydney.
Please send me. illustrated Booklets and
full information about New Zealand,
Name
Address
a.n.oA
Jora
DIFFERENT Holiday
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau, Martin Place,
Sydney; 59 William Street, Melbourne; Queen
Street, Brisbane; and all Travel Agencies.
be in
NEW
ZEALAND
5A
The Second Coming.
WHEREIN J. L. M. ABBOTT HOLDS A REVIEW OF THE RUM CORPS.
JOHNNY VENABLES was a member of
the Night Watch, that useful branch of
the police force of Sydney, organised by
Governor Macquarie some fifteen, years or so
before, of which Mr. D’Arcy Wentworth was
the first superintendent, as he was also the
first police magistrate of the capital of New
South Wales. Six nights a week, in his flat
cap with a glazed peak, and blue uniform
with a red stripe down each trouser-leg,
Johnny marched forth, armed with a cutlass
and a watchman’s rattle, to patrol until day-
light the district of the Rocks, which in
those days was partly the fashionable quar-
ter of the town and partly a slum area of
evil reputation.
soldierly figure of a man was Constable
V enables, a little past middle-age, with a fine
straight back, a martial tread, and a crimson
nose that looked a little like a beetroot.
Johnny would joke about this distinguishing
feature of his countenance with much enjoy-
ment, and some pride. “And why not
shouldnt me boko be red?” he would ask.
the sign of an old soldier of the
good old Corps? We was nursed on red rum,
an our noses is colored accordin’.”
He had come to the colony in 1792 as a
drummer in one of the first companies to
arrive in Sydney, and had served as private
and corporal in the regiment until it was
sent home on the arrival of Governor Mac-
quarie with the 73rd. Then, being a family
man ot sorts, lie had taken his discharge and
joined the new constabulary, in which he was
just as ornamental and useful as was neces-
sary to maintain liis appointment in it. “A
good cove,” the prisoner population styled
him—which meant that he could often be
impended upon to look the other way “A
d ~-rd «9 ld rogue,” said Mr. D’Arcy Went-
worth as cunning as a blind man’s dog.”
Johnny took immense pride in the fact that
he was an old soldier of the New South
Wales Corps. Its officers, to him, had
ranked as a hierarchy of angel-men, who had
often been misunderstood, but must never be
slandered or traduced whilst he stood by. His
career as a policeman had almost terminated
in its first month by reason of the rough not
to say brutal, fashion in which he had dealt
with a soldier of the 73rd who had alluded
to his old battalion as “the Rum Corps.” It
was not that he particularly objected to the
universally employed allusion to lI.M. 102nd
Regiment of Foot; it was the nasty way the
man had made use of the epithet that caused
Johnny to fracture his skull with a pewter-
datten his facq with his heel.
He said to me,” he told the superinten-
dent, on being asked to explain this violence,
“ Rum Col 'PS was nothink but tli’
- Rum Corps. I arsks ye, sir—l puts it
to you, Mr. Wentworth— could any man be
expected for to swallow the like o’ that?”
On cold nights, in the back rooms of such
taverns on the Rocks as that presided over
by Black Tom Nutting, Johnny liked nothing
better than to take his ease by the fire, drink-
ing hot Bengal rum, whilst he dilated upon
the martial exploits of the Corps. He had
shared m the two occasions—they were really
one but he always regarded them as distinct
and separate achievements—when the bat-
talion had made history in New South Wales.
Great and vivid was his description of the
momentous affair near Castle Hil] on the
afternoon of March 5, 1804, when a detach-
ment under Major Johnston’s command had
defeated and dispersed the Irish rebels who
“ ad broken out into insurrection the night
before. And of the march to Parramatta
wmcli they had made in the small hours of
the previous morning. Two affairs that made
mstory, one wrote just now. There were
t™, °f course, the other being that of the
2bth of January, 1808, when the Corps
inarched to Government House and deposed
Governor Bligh. But that was a reminiscence
reserved for great occasions—or excessive
drunkenness.
Cesar’s march across the Alps was not to
be compared w r ith the tramp to Parramatta,
and Waterloo was a bad second to the
engagement with the “Croppies” which had
been derisively christened “Vinegar Hill.”
Each of them could be made to occupy a
whole evening in the telling, and both of
them called for infinite patience on the part
of Johnny’s audience. Every mile of the road,
as it was that night, was described in detail;
the pedigree of everybody connected with the
battle” was investigated to the remotest
degree. And Johnny never lacked appreciative
listeners, for the very good reason that those
’.vho pretended to listen intently to every
word knew that, Constable Venables once
launched upon his martial recollections, any-
thing at all might be done in the neighbor-
hood without any interference on the part
of the La,w, as represented by Johnny Ven-
ables. They were cheered by the thought that
by their patient boredom the world was being
made safe in the immediate neighborhood
for such as had occasion to commit any
small crime. Johnny Venables, could be
trusted to stay where he was, so long as he
had anyone to listen to him enlarging upon
the splendor of his campaigns.
Towards a blusterous, cold, wet midnight
in the month of May, 1826, Constable Ven-
ables called at the Good Intent, and was as
usual warmly welcomed by its sinister land-
lord, Thomas Nutting—of evil fame in Syd-
ney, and wherever else in the world he had
been —and invited into a back room, where
a couple of mariners were taking their ease
and their liberty with two young lady-friends
of Tom’s who hoped ere long to well and
truly dower themselves of most that the
mariners possessed. A bright fire of New-
castle coals —stolen from the grimy little
schooner-colliers that berthed at Mr. Under-
wood’s wharf in the Cove and at. Mr. Camp-
bell’s further round—burned cheerily in the
grate. There was a jug of rum and a plate
of lemons on the greasy table, with pewter
mugs, and a kettle steamed by the fireplace.
Mr. Nutting brought in a glass for the con-
stable, as better befitting his position than
common pewter, and introduced him to the
company.
“Don’t be alarmed, gemmen,” he reassured
the sailor-men, “ ’tis but an ole friend o’
mine, who don’t wish no one any ’arm. Mr.
Mike Bulgin’’—-he pointed to a blonde young
giant whose mighty arm encircled the “Em-
pire ’ waist of “Essex-street Fanny”—“and
Mr. Johnny Maguire”—a red-headed and
stocky Irishman who nursed in his lap the
buxom charms of “Soapy Maud.” “John, ye’re
acquainted with th’ ladies. Gemmen,” he added
impressively, “though he wears th’ uniform o’
th police, Mr. Venables is a lad o ’th’ true
breed who wouldn’t do no ’arm to no one
A hold friend o’ the Good Intent, Mr. Ven-
ables _ is, an’ I’m proud for to make ye
acquainted. Mr. Venables ’as bin a sojer,
an can tell ye more abart sojerin’ than any
in th’ town. Fill up, an’ drink ’earty. John
I gives ye th’ toast o’ th’ Noo South Wales
Corps, coupled with th’ respected name o’
Meejor Grose.”
“Major, Tom?” protested Mr. Venables—
“Major?” He looked a little shocked and
pained. “Th’ late commandin'-liorf'cer o’ th’
Corps died a Major-Gen’ral—a dozen year
back. Be correct, Tummas —be correct. ’Ere’s
to th’ gallant mem’ry o’ Gen’ral Grose—an’
may ’e rest in peace!”
“Wot corps was that?” inquired Mr.
Bulgin innocently. Constable Venables
looked at him in suspicious astonishment,
and immediately assumed his best police-
man’s manner of not taking anything, or
anybody, for granted.
“An’ may I arsk, young feller,” he said
coldly, “what ship you belongs to, an’ ’ow
long you bin ’ere?”
“Th’ St. Cecilia, Lunnon, w’aler, an’ we
been in Port Jackson two days, ole codger,
if ye must know,” grinned the good-natured
giant, lifting the lovely Fanny on to his
knees. “There, girly, ye’ll be -more com-
f’ble.”
Mr. Nutting, perceiving a light of hos-
tility in the eye of Mr. Venables, and not
liking the aggressive tilt of the purple nose,
hastened to make peace.
“A seafarin’ man, Jack—’e can’t be
expected for to know much abart barmy mat-
ters. Tli’ corps, Mr. JBulgin, is th’ famous
’Undred-an’-second Foot—better known to
th’ world as th’ Noo South Wales Corps—
an’ Mr. Venables, me ole friend John Ven-
ables, was a very distinguished member of
it one time. ’Tis nigh to twenty year since
th’ good ole Corps left these parts, but they
ain’t never been forgot in Sydney. ’Earty
lads they was —bold an’ free-’anded —an’ all
th’ girls loved ’em. I dunno w’ere th’ hold
reg’ment is stationed at this ’ere present
moment, but, w’erever it is, th’ Corps can be
depended on to make a name for itself.
W’ere is it, Jack? Th’ last I ’eard was in
th’ Bermudas. W’ere are them splendid
fellers now?”
Mr. Venables set his glass down on the
table with a sigh, and shook his head slowly
from side to side in mournful fashion two
or three times before he replied.
“Tom,” he said in a melancholy tone,
“There ain’t no Corps no longer. It’s been
disbanded.”
“Well, well!” Mr. Nutting raised his
hands in well-simulated astonishment, though
the news could not have been surprising to
anyone w r ho knew the Corps during its career
in New South Wales. “You don’t say so,
Jack! In th’ name o’ Gawd —wot for?”
Constable Venables banged a clenched fist
upon the table so forcefully that Mr. Nutting
was only just in time to save the jug of
rum.
“Jealousy, Tom —jealousy an’ lousy
malice. That’s all. Th’ ’ole army ’ated
them —an’ for w’y? Because they knoo that
th’ good ole Corps’d outshine ’em if ever they
was allowed to come into haction—w’ich
they never was. But they couldn’t be kep’
down, th’ Corps couldn’t, so all them other
swine could do was to get hinfluence to bear
at th’ ’Orse Guards, an’ ’ave ’em broke up.
That’s what th’ barstids done! A cryin’
shame, I calls it. A body o’ men like that!
But you mark my words, Tom Nutting—you
mark my words!”
“Yes, Jack —yes? Wot was you a-goiti’
for to remark?”
“I tell ’ee, th’ ole Corps, it’ll come
again—it’ll ’ave a second cornin’, an’ it’ll
be more glorious nor it ever was. Stiffen
me, an’ bust me—it ’as come ag’in! W’y,
th’ brave ole toughs—nothink could do ’em
in! You listen to me now.”*
*Si nee all the world is not so well acquainted with
the story of that remarkable battalion in which
Constable Venables had been trained in martial
exercises, and had qualified as a toper of distinction,
it may not be amiss, here, to recount briefly some
facts concerning the inspiring career of H.M. 102nd
Regiment of Foot, as it had come to be entitled
during the latter days of its existence as a unit of
the British Army.
The garrison that came to New South Wales in
the First Fleet consisted of three companies of Royal
Marino Light Infantry, numbering some 212 in all
ranks. It was four years before they were relieved
by a body of troops specially raised for this par-
ticular service by Major Francis Grose, a half-pay
officer of the recruiting service. Some light is thrown
upon the fashion in which it was officered from the
fact that Grose undertook to raise the regiment
entirely at his own expense, provided he were allowed
to nominate the candidates for commissions and
obtain £5OO from “the captain appointed to a
majority.” So the officers may well be described as
a pretty scratch lot, who were glad to get out of
England in order to keep out of debtors’ prisons. The
rank and file was mostly composed of men who had
made other regiments too hot to hold them, of
civilians to whom any change—even to the most
outlandish ends of the earth —could not fail to be
of benefit, of the inmates of military prisons, and of
convicts from the gaols.
On the whole, the men did not do badly in New
South Wales—when the origin of the regiment is
considered. Even Macquarie, when he sent them
home, praised their “orderly good conduct” in the
highest terms. But of the officers very little good
can be said. They were constantly in hot water with
the early Governors, and when Phillip returned to
England and they became the only power in the
colony, they ran amuck in their own interests. They
went in for trading in a scandalous fashion—especially
in rum —and their many ill deeds culminated in the
mutiny against Governor Bligh. The regiment left
Sydney early in 1810, after eighteen years’ service
in the Territory. For a short period it was stationed
( Continued, on next page.)


Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
456 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3,6,12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 % PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
I m
: !■' -K
ENO'S-FR//
HBI
1H 1&
ms
r
r
*>
Hr
■HK-'
St
:
■
llllllllllli
mn
.
MM
Aj
m
as
Nothing makes you so vivid, so much
worth looking at, as that inner radiance
of perfect health* It sparkles in your eyes.
Sets fresh roses blossoming in your cheeks.
All the creams and powders in the world
won’t do as much for your looks as the
morning glass of Eno. For Eno sees to
that important duty of inner cleanliness.
Taken first thing every morning
just a dash in a glass of water
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” retains enough fluid
in the food canal to ensure punctual and
complete dismissal of poisonous waste* And
though it acts so surely and beneficently,
Eno does nothing that nature herself would
not approve. Take a bottle home and begin
fr om tomorrow this golden rule of
healthy living and beauty.
In two sizes at chemists and stores .
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Sales Agents:
THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE Oi CO., LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Mr. Nutting filled Mr. Venables’s glass
with rum and hot water, enjoining silence
upon him until he had refreshed himself.
“Well, then, Jack,” he said, when these
operations had been completed and his
friend had sampled the brew, “what d’ye
know abart ’em, then? Come, spit it out.
I can see as ’ow ye’ve summat up y’r sleeve.
Ha’ ye heard tell of ’em lately?”
The constable leaned back against the
slab wall and regarded the company with
an expression of triumph in his shining
countenance. His red nose positively
seemed to twinkle in the candlelight.
“Ah,” he sighed— “Ah!” Then he banged
his fist once more upon the table and gave
a shout of joy. “Hooray, Tom —hooray,, me
lads ! —th’ good ole Corps has come to light
once more. They’re on their way here now —
they’re in a ship bound for Port Jackson.
You mark my words, Tom Nutting, When
them fellies arrives ’twill be a noo hera for
this country. Them lads’ll put noo life into
th’ place. Sydney’ll be itself again. Yous
girls can give up a-walltiri’ th’ streets, an’
wed with decent men. Tom, old man, y’r
fortin’ll be made.”
* * * *
On a sunny afternoon in early September,
Mr. Nutting leaned upon the front-door post
of the Good Intent, enjoying the balminess
of the day, the while he reflected a little
bitterly upon the paucity of custom and the
unwelcome change that seemed to have
come over Sydney's former propensity to
alcohol.
“Th’ place,” he muttered, “is a-goin’
to th’ dawgs!”
There was a lovely view from Mr. Nut-
ting’s position. The Good Intent was
situated about a hundred yards north of St.
Philip’s Church, and from the vicinity of
the stone drinking-trough that stood below
its signpost you could see clear to the
Heads, across the gleaming blue reaches of
Port Jackson, bowered in sylvan loveliness
of untouched woods and ancient forests that
came down everywhere to the water’s edge.
But there was nothing in that sort of a
view, according to Mr. Nutting’s taste. The
view only gratified Black Tom when it con-
tained boatloads of half-drunk sailors mak-
ing a beeline from their landing-place in
the Cove, over the brow* of Gallows Hill, to
the taproom of the Good Intent. And,
to-day, the scenery seemed to him to be
scarcely worth his regard.
He was about to turn indoors, when he
perceived coming across the street towards
the inn the soldierly figure of Constable
John Venables, of the Night Watch. Even
as he greeted him he marked his dejected,
dragging step, his air of melancholy, and the
aspect of unhappiness that bowed liis shoul-
ders. Even his nose seemed a little paler
than usual.
“What-ho, Jack, ole son,” he said, with
real or assumed concern in his tone. “You’re
not a-lookin’ too bright, damme if ye
are! Wot th’ devil ails ye, Johnny?”
“I want a gill o’ brandy, Tom. I ain’t
meself,” said the policeman, as he entered
the low and gloomv den which did duty as
the public bar of the Good Intent. “I feel
any’ow.”
“Why, wot’s th’ matter, Jack? You look’s
if ye’d ’ad some sort of a blow. Wot is it,
me ole friend? Damme if I’ve ever seed
you look like this afore. Wot’s th’ ——
trouble?”
Mr. Venables swallowed the contents of
his glass at a gulp, and stared into its
emptiness, as though it symbolised the whole
of life for him. Silently and sympathetically,
Mr. Nutting rose and refilled it, and then
sat down again beside his friend.
“Come on, then, ole boy—hout with it.”
“Tom,” said Mr. Venables mournfully,
“me Weedin’ ’eart’s broke. I feel like a
done man. That there brandy ain’t no
more to me than what cold pump-water’d
be. I’m fair sorrowful an’ down-’earted.”
“W’y—wot’s got ye, Johnny?”
“The ’opes of years is withered, Tummas
—all t'h’ good’s gorn out o’ me life.”
“But wot’s got ye that way, Jack? You
ain’t th’ sort o’ covey to come th’
miser’ble over nothink. Wot’s done it?”
For a few moments the constable was
silent. When he looked up at the other, his
face was strangely drawn and haggard.
“Tom,” he said, “how many o’ th’ Noo
South Wales Corps bin ’ere in th’ last
month?”
Mr. Nutting frowned.
“W’y, dammit,” he grumbled, “I’ve but
seed the color o’ but one o’ their jackets in-
side this door since they landed in Sydney in
July. I can’t make it out. You ain’t ’eard
nothink abart my place bein’ put out o’
bounds to ’em —or th’ like o’ that —’ave ye,
Johnny?”
“No,” replied Mi*. Venables, shaking his
head mournfully. “We’d ha’ knowed at th’
Watch-’ouse if it ’ad. No, Tom —I can tell
you why they ’aven’t been ’ere. Listen—
ye’ll never believe it!” He lowered his
voice, and spoke in a tone of gloomy awe,
almost whispering incredible tidings. “Tom
—ye may call me a liar, but it’s true.
Them fellies don't drink!”
The dreadful import of this news over-
whelmed Mr. Nutting. He could say noth-
ing. But no disaster could quite silence Mr.
Venables. “Gawd, Tom,” he said —“that th’
good ole Corps should hever ha’ come to this!
There’s a captain with ’em who’s one o’
these ’ere temp’rance horf’cers, and, by th’
Lord, he’s converted th’ ’ole detachment!
Blime, I’d sooner ha’ believed th’ ’arbor
yonder had turned into pea-soup than that
soldiers o’ th’ good ole Corps could so ’ave
lost all sense of decency. Could you have
believed it?”
in Guernsey, under the command of Charles Napier,
who disciplined it into an excellent force. From
1812 to 1818 it was in garrison in Bermuda, and
in the latter year was brought to England and dis-
banded. After leaving Australia it had been known
as the 102nd Regiment.
But it did not altogether expire in ’lB. The
War Office hardly knew what to do with the dis-
banded men of the regiment, so hit upon the happy
idea of calling for volunteers from their number to
reconstitute the New South Wales Corps, and a
couple of companies under that title arrived in
Sydney in July, 1826. In 1829 it numbered three
captains, three lieutenants, ten sergeants, eleven
-corporals and 130 of lower rank, and was distributed
in detachments in New South Wales, Norfolk Island
and Van Diemen’s Land. According to the “Australian
Almanac” of 1832, it still existed in that year, as a
body of fifty-four officers and men. However, in the
following year it seems to have been finally dis-
bauded.
“I don't believe it, Johnny.”
“It’s true as gospel,” Mr. Venables
groaned, shaking his head sorrowfully.
Suddenly a broad grin came into Mr.
Nutting’s ugly one-eyed countenance. He
jumped briskly to his feet and clapped the
constable heartily upon a shoulder.
“Jack, ole cully, don’t take on so. Thej'
ain’t ’opeless. Come roun’ th’ back an’
I’ll show ye summat as’ll warm th’ cockles
o’ y’r heart —even if my brandy don’t.
Come.”
He led the constable round the house to
where a slab skillion leaned against its low
back wall. Pulling aside a piece of rotten
canvas that hung down over its entrance, he
motioned the other to look inside. Mr.
Venables peered into the little place, which
was merely a lean-to used for keeping fire-
wood dry. In the dim light, he perceived
the scarlet blob of color of a soldier’s red
jacket.
“Huh !” he grunted doubtfully—“ ’tis one
o’ th’ ‘Buffs,’ no doubt?”
“Well, then, ye’re wrong, Johnny. ’Tis
one o’ th’ Noo South Wales Corps. Drunk
for two days, ’e’s bin. Even now there’s
a picket out a-lookin’ for ’im. I put ’irn in
there for to ’ide ’im. No, Jack, do ’em jus-
tice. They liain’t all fallen so low as wot
you think.”
Momentarily Mr. Venables could find no
words to express his feelings. Then he drew
liimself up, and once more looked the old
soldier he was. He wrung Tom Nutting’s
hand.
“Tom,” he said, huskily, “thanks be to
Gawd!”
In the Wood.
So deep the green of tangled trees,
The skies beyond seem pale as mist;
Thq shadows in the silent aisles
Are purple dark and amethyst.
A little grass springs in a glade;
A shaft of light that slips between
Has made each dainty shimmering spear
Glass-clear in its pellucid green.
Polished the olive of a vine,
And parrot-bright, a ficus clings,
Grasshopper-green of budding leaves
And folded twigs as soft as wings.
And now between the branching ways
Where scattered blossoms wander down,
There moves a lady through the wood
With ebon hair and scarlet gown.
Her feet beneath her robe are bare.
The narrow toes embrace the grass
As though they longed to find the life
That through the quivering blades will
pass;
Each rosy toe that touches earth
To press it as true lovers press,
Feeling among the fallen leaves,
Is like a separate caress.
Beyond the forest rim they wait,
Her serving men with her jennet
That came from Spain, caparisoned
With scarlet cloth and silver fret;
And one will hold her silken hose,
And one her bright brocaded shoes,
Pondering upon a lady’s freak
Who must such lonely sauntering choose.
Whisper perchance of secret tryst,
With bawdy wink and tongue in cheek,
Not knowing that her squires are trees,
And only Pan she comes to seek.
She likes to feel the dewy grass
Kissing her silken soles, to know
No cramp of leather or brocade,
But only kindly earth below.
Not near enough to these she lives
In vaulted halls and stately street;
But in the quiet of the wood
Are other gods with naked feet.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
To Certain Hills.
Wind and rain and stormy river
Beat upon the plains together.
Stark to moaning skies
Tall poplars stand.
All summer they have stood clothed in love-
liness
As those who dream of Heaven.
Now they stand desolate
As I .stand desolate.
Oh, weary trees!
Spring shall return to you,
Clothe you in silver green,
Dancing the summer through,
And there’ll be autumn’s ecstasy
Again and yet again
For you.
But to-day surely
The crying wind and bitter rain
Make moan for me—make moan for me!
Surely all the wild tears of trapped humanity
Beat upon the river’s banks,
Wild tears of many centuries!
Surely all the unavailing grief
Of quiet bygone women
Ties hidden in these skies of sombre grey,
Grief that returns to earth again—
Grief that returns as rain !
And
Spring shall not return to me,
Nor early summer,
For my short day
Draws to its lonely close.
Soon shall I be less than a thought,
Dess than a sound even,
Or a fallen leaf
Lost on the winds of Heaven.
Never a thought shall be given me,
Never a sound come back from me,
Nor any trace be found of me
To show that I have been....
Even so
I am glad I can be glad in knowing
Others in their springtime
Shall climb these storm-kissed hills,
Know for a moment the fierce sweet joy I
knew.
Seeing dark pines break in gold of poplars,
Draw wild new strength from them. Perhaps,
May even pray, as I pray
I may return again,
If not as living thing or singing bird,
A laughing breeze of summer
Or as healing rain....
In winter then,
Even as tears, with the crying wind—
Even as bitter rain!
MAORILAND.
M. LYNN GURNEY.


, / i ;
/ f ■...... Ji
L f
rS'
5'
*tWsr l m
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—•
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Rourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents—Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide SA.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over. 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
National Advertisers
Who Wish to Cover' South Australia
df
The only Pictorial
Newspaper in South
Australia offers ex-
ceptional value to
advertisers who wish
to reach the women
buyers in South Aus-
tralia. In one week
recently more than
12,000 letters were
received from
women readers.
First with the news
—first with the pic-
tures—is the slogan
of The Register the
paper South Austra-
lian women buy to
read.
REGISTER
NEWS-PICTORIAL
REPRESENTATIVES
SYDNEY. S. MELBOURNE.—
Thompson, “Ll*- J. N. Bednall,
Oar House,” 30 The Herald Office,
Carrington street. Flinders street.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
(Established 1854)
The “Mercury” is the only Metro-
politan Newspaper in the State.
Its news services, articles, typo-
graphy are unexcelled in Australia.
THE “MERCURY” COVERS
TASMANIA
And its circulation exceeds the
combined figures of the dailies in
Tasmania. Delivered by fast motor-
cars, it reaches Launceston (121
miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before break-
fast.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
P. L. Wilson, Kepresentative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at ail infer-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on ihe
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queen and Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph’*
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
*■
m
J
%Z3£
\
ML#
>j
y
](/
4
Confident
cheerful
active.'
FULL of life—optimis-
tic—vigorous—thanks
to Beech am’s Pills.
Beecham’s Pills prevent
wastes accumulating and
keep the system free from
poisons. They engender
a normal, natural action
of the stomach, liver and
bowels.
Beecham’s are purely
vegetable—safe—effective
—certain.
"Worth a
guinea
a box”
BEECHAMS
I PILLS
✓
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
"THE EXAMINER" is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
"THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 87 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full
Information . copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner ” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Mr. M. S. Allan,
426 National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G.: Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOUSANDS SUBSCRIBE
to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £....
NAME .1
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
ď
0°
( s®
.\V eX^ C
8S
#•
#*•
G*'


.
%
%
X OISTtUGASfo
<8?
I
S|i|i|
HBI
", : :.
WArpS
i a
■ U
m
3
T“i
P>
EB
■
■■l
IV >;
V;
i Hi
II II
1
i
:S!1
S2!r®*%
: am
lasiilfla
IK
ffi
*(>
i
, : i : ; -
iSip?
■
fan
k:-’- ,h -*">"s* yjmm^
:AL
B
I
A. '■
A :
hsu
.: S ::11|
.-Mf-'jSifl
'f
m
WS A" r \
v:
.
- ->-*
w
a
II 1 II!
ilii
' jWJM
■-
■,
r. {SngMHB ijl 1 i* iih i
I'-
asaa n
■ i
H
- ,j ? >:, ■ :
liliaKgaiiliilro
S:!«l!ii::!«illpa I 1
' : : h
'■ ■ a-a, , ;g:
fi'aa-'" l ' r
lailfil
!l On, r: r - , l b-;■ ' teh.V " v* 1 ' ri
i HI ajilSiipil Iliii!! , M|iMP|iM§gMi|»ife!iifl^
fM
f -mf
■ :
li|gg«i
.
3
u- >
Hi
D
Z
o >
