

1
A KUBRA HATS were always wonderful value.
/% Now, at the New Low Prices they are greater
JL ,1k value than ever. Buy Akubras for their Long-
wearing Qualities ; their Excellent Appearance and
their Smart Styles. Made of Pure, Long-matured
Australian Fur. In all the latest Colours, including the
New Havana Brown
F,m ßr*
■czu.
/•*
r
V
W
r
E
<4
ar
i
...
JUcfh
Silk'liaed, 2/6 extra
m
%
w.
A
m
m
M
y
Silk'lined, 2/6 extra
<c ßennie 9 says:—
“Rush them . . .
with your ears back.”
AKUBRA No. 69—Smart, Cool.
Comfortable. . . A favorite style
ft
AKUBRA No. 258—Distinctive
and full of quiet dignity
w
AKUBRA No. 64—A very comiori-
able style. .... Smart and popular
ds
The Bulletin
er ? *Ps:.
Vol. 52. —No. 2696.
Wednesday, October 14, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r\UR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, (W
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Name '• ... '.•* .. ; .,..
My Address
S.B. 331
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
“THE AGE”
Established 185/f..
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keei> moving forward—‘-pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
tales on application to the principal service
igents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian aud
New Zealander,” 6d, weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
>btain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney ;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
#
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 °/o
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
* # *
Fou can get more of these interest'
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market , from:
Che Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
'Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents- H. C: GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Che Ikw Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and "up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241,
Che mercury
•—jby virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address : “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street. »
Supreme in Its Own
Field
THE
<§untoj) Wme&
(1) The largest paper in Western
Australia.
(2) Each issue leads in News and
Advertising.
(3) The only paper in W.A. to
publish audited circulation.
(4) Its country circulation is un-
equalled.
(5) The metropolitan sales exceed
the combined sales of all
other Perth weeklies.
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS!
This Great Advertising Medium puts
you in touch with a valuable market.
Sydney Representative: Hal Johnstone.
\Vingtllo House, Angel Place.
'Phone 84708.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
price 3d -
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A Mechanical Hare
Gemld Bullett’s Remember Mrs. Munch
(.Heinemann; 55.) represents another defeat
in a field which is strewn with casualties.
There are few more difficult jobs than to
reveal animals through human speech. The
masters—Maeterlinck, Lewis Carroll, Kip-
ling—were poets, humorists and consummate
craftsmen who knew and loved animals, yet
all hover at times on the edge of pawkiness,
which is the quagmire that menaces every
writer in this genre. Mr. Bullett is very
pawky. He tries hard to be unusual, but
is often reminiscent. Consider the chil-
dren’s meeting With Mrs. Munch, the hare:
“This is my little brother Martin, Mrs. Munch,”
said Elizabeth. “We’re the Robinsons, you know.”
“Who bettpr?” retorted Mrs. Munch.
“Oh I say,” broke in Guy, “that’s what I’ve
been wanting to ask you. How did you know my
name, Mrs. Munch?”
“If it comes to that,’’ said Mrs. Munch, “how
did you know mine? But it doesn’t come to that,”
she added, “so let’s waste no more words about it,”
Mrs. Munch’s chief trouble is that she
doesn’t talk or behave in character. The
story is based on the quest of the Dokus, a
sort of Snarlc. He appears towards the end
of the book.
“Anybody at home?” said he. “I’m the I>okus.”
“Yes, my lambkin! Yes, my herbivorous pet!”
cried Mrs. Munch, leaping towards him. “Here’s
Goody Munch that’s been waiting for you these many
sad years.”
And again:—
“There, there!” murmured Mrs. Munch sooth-
ingly. “Diddums, my popkin! Diddums, my pachy-
derm ! Aunty’s not cross with you, my gladsome
light! Ah, he’s a gentle little Dokus, and only
twelve yards long from tip to tip.” Radiant with
joy, husky with emotion, Mrs. Munch burst into
triumphant song:
“But bless your hearts and thankeej chicks; I’ll have
no hanky-panky tricks;
I’ll kiss him when he’s clever, and I’ll cuff him
when he’s cross.
Provide he keep his temperer, I’ll treat him like an
emperor,
But if he goes and loses it, ’tis his’ll be the loss.”
That might be a motherly cow, or even a
nanny-goat, but it isn’t a hare. Mr. Hendy,
the rabbit, Mr. Willimut, the field-mouse,
and others talk the same irrelevant gibber-
ish, and the reader never gets to know and
like them; which is to say they never
become believable. How the man who pro-
duced the first half of Mar den Fee came to
turn out anything so artificial and deriva-
tive as this is one of the mysteries of the
writing trade.
Towards World Peace
There is stimulating stuff in Atalanta, or
the Future of Sport (Kegan Paul; 2s. 6d.),
which is G. S. Sandilands’s contribution to
the “To-day and T.o-morrow” series of
booklets. The author isn’t a sportsman, and
he knows little about sport. Rarely have
so many inaccuracies been packed into an
authoritative work as he gets into his open-
ing remarks on the hunting-man. “He is
always a man of public-school education.
He has always had the strictest ideas of
fairness knocked into him”—and so on, as if
the hunting-field knew nothing of horse-
copers! Some of his gibes are stale. Few
need to be told at this time of day that
amateurs make money out of cricket. How-
ever, it is not his criticisms but his con-
clusions that deserve attention. He foresees
the day when sport will have become com-
pletely internationalised.
With cleaner idealsmf sport evolving year by -year,
the sporting test will be applied to politics also.
Political and industrial issues will become clearer.
The man accused of unsportsmanlike conduct will
find lvis prestige petering out. '
The organisation of international sport
on a large scale is likely to have the effect
of diminishing the war spirit. Blood sports
are already being shamed out of existence.
Why shouldn’t war follow them? The case
is presented with great .spirit, and though
the style is frivolous the content is serious.
London
Thomas Moult, author of Saturday Night
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.), is a gifted interpreter
of London. Not the London of Bright
Young People and Imperial Palace Hotels,
which is almost as cosmopolitarf as Soho
these days, but the vast English London of
mean streets, happiness snatched from
squalid poverty and appearances maintained
against crushing odds. Mrs, Poplar, who
has known better days, flees from relatively
■aristocratic Battersea with her six boys to a
north-east slum, leaving her futile husband
to hi's own devices. He follows, is rebuffed
and retires to the workhouse. Mrs. Poplar
settles down with her Bible and texts to
organise a new life on the basis of the
miserable earnings of her sons, and the little
she has saved. The novel is built up of a
series of mostly unrelated incidents' which
combine to give a
lugubrious yet
glamorous picture
that every Cock-
ney will recognise.
The reader catches
the reek of the
flaring street naphtha lights over the bar-
rows; hears the sharp voices of the cheery,
easily-angered bargainers; sees the ragged
children playing on sidewalks or fighting over
the contents of garbage-tins. Mrs. Poplar and
her fallen family move through it all, aloof,
revolted, yet on the whole happy, as those
around them are. The unfortunate husband
suffers the indignity which is most dreaded
by his class —death in an infirmary; the
boys lose jobs and get others; Mark, the
most clearly seen of them, falls in love: his
girl’s sister is mrirdered and the lofe-affair
dies out; and so the story ends on the
restless questioning note with which it
began. of the scores of carefully-
etched characters have appeared in other
books about the London poor. Miss Rufus,
the vituperative charwoman, the gag-pur-
veying ’busmen, the boys’ employers and
the boys themselves are stock figures, but
they are from life and they live. It wouldn’t
be London without them.
Through Anti-clerical Glasses
Joseph McCabe’s hatred of Rome amounts
to monomania, so his Spain in Revolt (The
Bodley Head; Bs. 6d.) needs to be taken
with several pinches of salt. He is as sure
that the Catholic Church is fundamentally
responsible for the recent, revolution as
most socialist orators are that capitalism is
responsible for the depression. Because the
Spanish Court has always been Catholic he
can see no good in any member of the
Bourbon dynasty, and he attributes all the
mistakes of ex-King Alfonso and his fore-
bears to ecclesiasticism. He writes with the
authority of' one who has lived and worked
in Spain, but his book is packed with
scandals most of which are irrelevant, and
he gives only two chapters to the vital
reign which ended in the republic. Briefly,
his contention is that Spain was governed
with tyrannous ineptitude for centuries, and
that Alfonso XIII., the moron son of a
diseased father, “never made the least
attempt at reform.” Yet we know, as his-
torical facts, that Alfonso was liked during
most of hig reign; that it witnessed one of
the greatest economic revivals of modern
times; that when he came to the throne in
1902 the public revenue was £50,000,000 p.a.,
that De Rivera left a balanced budget
of £98,000,000, and that, when the revolution
arrived Spain had practically no unem-
ployed. How can these things be reconciled
with the theory that the Spaniards were
goaded to desperation by misgovernment?
Mr. McCabe’s book is worth reading as a
point of view, but it leaves the burning
question of what produces revolutions in
peaceful, prosperous countries unanswered.
RED PAGE.
The White Slave Trade
I The Road to Buenos Ayres, by Albert
Londres, translated by Eric Sutton (Con-
stable), has already been reprinted several
times. A special edition ought to be
brought out and copies presented to the
members of the committee the League of
Nations sooled on to the whiteslave
traffic, with such negative results; also to
Australian workers in that field. The book
is unique of its kind. It is difficult to
understand how it ever got into Australia,
where the popular method of handling the
problem with which it is concerned is to
periodically set the police chasing the
Flossies off the pavement in Collins and
George streets, and then hoist the signal
“All’s well.”
The author is a Parisian journalist who
writes up high-life scandals for what is pre-
sumably the Gallic equivalent of “Truth.”
But the artist must have been latent in
the journalist, or Londres could never have
done the job he set out to do so super-
latively well and in siich an unusual way.
Ho got in touch with the agents of the
“Centre,” the organisation which caters for
the demand for mass production in love,
particularly with regard to South America,
and, under the best auspices, penetrated to
the inner circles of the craft to which white-
slavery commissions never get nearer than
documents in libraries. It appears that
The Centre is a body of men,who deal in women,
quite openly, just as others deal in forests, honors,
mines, or mineral-water springs. It is a corporation,
it is more than that, it is a State! Like Monaco
in the French Republic, San Marino in the Kingdom
of Italy, and the Valley of Andorra in the Pyrenees.
These new men have turned our morals, our customs
and our laws upside down, and have formed them-
selves into an independent Principality; the Outlaw
State. They have broken with all public forces,
except the Police. The Police they recognise as a
foreign power, and they appoint an ambassador to
maintain good relations on all frontier questions.
They have also founded a League of the Rights of
Man —his rights over women. They have not only
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE”
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.—The Conscience of Business.
Anthony Horderns'
IICKING
Special Selling
SHEETING
For a limited period only
WRITE IMMEDIATELY —
to renew your stocks at these
low prices!
1/11 S.B. SHEETING AT
/
Single-bed White Sheeting. Plain or Twill.
Qualities that are guaranteed to give satisfactory
wear. 54 inches wide.
Prices, yard 1/1 1 2/4 2/6 2/9 2/11
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Prices, yard—
-1/6 1/11 2/1 2/3 2/6
I>6
yard
2/11 D.B. SHEETING AT
I
Double-bed White Sheeting which represents
sterling value. Plain or twill. 80in. wide.
Prices, yard—
-2/11 3/3 3/6 3/9 3/11 4/6
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Prices, yard •
1/114 2/6 3/1 3/3 3/6 3/11
I'm
yard
18/6 D.B. SHEETS NOW
Double-bed White Sheets. Extra fine quality.
Long wear guaranteed. Plain or Twill.
Sixe 80 x 100 inches.
Prices, pair, 18/6 21/- 21/6 22/3 25/3
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Prices, pair—
-14/3 17/6 18/3 19/9 21/11
14'3
10/3 WHITE SHEETS
5500 Pairs Hemmed White Sheets. Genuine
value is offered in every quality.
Plain or twill. Width 54 x9O inches.
Prices, pair—
-10/3 11/9 12/3 13/- 14/3 15/3
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Prices, pair—
-7/11 9/11 10/3 10/11 11/9 12/11
7/11
UNBLEACHED CALICO
36in. Unbleached Calico. Pure
finish. Dependable quality.
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Price,
d'oz. yards . . 6/11
6/n
doz. yards
PILLOW COTTON
Strong and durable Pillow Cottons. Linen
finish. Keenly priced. Width, 40in.
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Prices,
yard 1/- 1/1 1/3 1/5 1/9
1/
yard
purchased advantageously by Anthony
Horderns —now offered at
LESS THAN LANDED COST!
Save by these reductions!
Damask Ticking, width 58in. Price, yard 2/11
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Price, yard 1/11
Blue and White Union, width 63in. Price, yard 3/6
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Price, yard 2/6
Blue and White Union, width 58in. Price, yard 4/3
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Price, yard . 2/11
Fancy-striped Union, width 58in. Price, yard 4/6
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Price, yard 3/6
Damask Ticking, in assorted colorings, width 58in. Price, yd., 4/1 1
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Price, yard . . 3/3
BLANKET BARGAINS
37/11 WHITE BLANKETS FOR
Here is a chance to buy White Blankets
at Half Price! Full standard size and
weight, for lasting service. Size 63 x
8 1 inches. Single or three-quarter bed.
Price 33/11
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain ... 17/11
17'11
27/3 3/ BED GREY BLANKETS
Full standard size and weight, Silver Grey in
color. To fit three-quarter bed, they are
superior in quality. Lasting service assured.
Size 63 x 81 inches.
Price, pair . . 27/3
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Price, pair, 21/6
21/6
4/9 WHITE
TABLE DAMASK
2/9
An amazing bargain! Superior quality White Mercerised Damask,
available in a group of attractive designs. Generous in width
67 inches.
Price, yard 4/9
Anthony Horderns’ Bargain Price, yard 2/9
2/9
Secured from Manufacturer at big discount,
“OSMAN” TOWELS
(Mill Seconds)
Genuine White “Osman” Turkish Towels at greatly reduced prices.
These are classed as “Mill Seconds” and were secured by Anthony
Horderns’ at a big discount. Why not take advantage of this
special buying?
Sizes 22 x 45 24x 45 24 x 49 47 x 51
Prices 4/3 4/6 4/11 5/11
Anthony
Horderns*
Bargain
Prices ....
2/9 2/11 3/3 4/3
( Manchester, First Floor. We Pay Carnage.)
vrßi
ANTHONY HORDERN 8C SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
d


■' ■ .-V■: ■■
40*
\JOT , jf.
$ V <* />■ ,
✓
•X,
m
Mm
Ic
ac
ana w
mte
manoeuvres
BLACK
SUL©
■i Whsskv
%CK
HV
IfTE :
banana
SGOW
WOON
A By Anointment ™
foff M the'YAWG
IT tfML if>k nutlet <*wm
p SODUCe OF SCOTUNO
SCOTCH WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
**&&&& M& ?■«■*««
special blend of ..
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISK*
Scotch whiskv pismLEfcS
GLASGOW & LONDON
DISmiERY.^S^' ,
k. E| CONTENTS I PINT 6 ETU* D
SI]CM ‘\
1 * ; v - i i / \
:. f, f
t: ;>. l
/■■ V li<\:
1
& WHITE
Among a multitude
of possible moves
there’s one that is
always sure of suc-
cess —to bring out
the Black & White
and two glasses.
Bottled under Customs Supervision.


HARDY'S
Spark 1 l n. g
WINES
ll'ieir Special
Cold Label Stiil diqes
resu Hof
L 7iL
Years of untie groua/qp
arid njakino
•A-
mz
A
SPA
"Cc
35
1 38ki\
K":
X. -
> ■
w
Sl -
' ""^TV
as
jftßPir
■27
fH|llllHlfflT(hw«iK. -trtlll
W
revived bigamy, they have sensibly improved it.
Mahomet has said: “Take as many women as you
can support.” The citizens of the Outlaw State
have brought the Koran up to date. They proclaim:
“Only take such women as are able and willing to
support you.” All professions but one are closed to
them. Indeed, by their religion, all other profes-
sions are mortal sin. Except one: the exploitation
of the socially superfluous female.
For only 20 p.c. of their stock-in-trade
are victims of their own moral or physical
failings; the rest are victims of poverty, of
an economic system that has no use for
them, and isn’t even aware of their exist-
ence until they fall from some misadven-
ture into the hands of the police; and from
this fate the Centre is always ready to pre-
serve them. Londrcs’s material is so ter-
rific that any method of handling it other
than his own would be unbearable. He is
witty, amazingly detached, and his grace-
ful style hides an objective vision of a
high order. He does more than expose the
queer bills of lading and other machinery
of the trade; he lifts a curtain on a new
world that is older than history. Read the
chapter entitled “Casa Francesa.”
Come along; only a hundred yards away. We
ring, pass the examination with credit, and go in.
It would be more sensible to try to get one’s hair
cut the day before Easter. Let us go out Here
we are once more. This time it is like the vestry
at a fashionable wedding, when the bride has_ a
large number of friends. Out we go for the third
time.... I salute your vitality, O Argentina, pale
sister of ours! What a fine thing- it is to watch
vigorous, disciplined people. Here, too, are nine
persons waiting patiently. Very well; now there
will be ten in all, I sit down on the end of the
bench. Why, I’m no longer the last; there’s an
eleventh candidate. I should he very willing to
make room for you, my brother, on this melancholy
bench, where we sit patient, rather crowded, and
each with the same hope in our hearts. What a
boatload, when I think of it! But pushing makes
no impression on them. The eleventh is touched by
so much goodwill. He thanks me with a smile;
he will remain standing-. He looks at his watch,
and counts those in front of him; yes, he has the
time. Then he pulls out a packet of cigarettes,
and unfolds La Razon. We wait.
If is gratifying to think that such scenes
are unthinkable in a city like Melbourne,
say. But before we jump to hasty and
comfortable conclusions, let us wait, like
Monsieur Londres. I was walking with a
municipal councillor and a medical officer
along Little Lonsdale-street. It happened
to be Anzac Night. All the doors were
closed. “Why,” said the councillor, and
there was a pleased inflection in his voice,
“it is nice to think that even they show
their respect for the Day.” “Possibly,” re-
marked the doctor, “it is not only because
of Anzac Day that the doors are closed.”
PAWANG.
Critics Prefer Lemons
A column of book reviews is an instance
of people gathering together to discuss a
subject, and only one of them being per-
mitted to say anything. Books are being
talked about (with varying degrees of
understanding) by every newspaper and
periodical in the land; but, as far as I am
aware, the Red Page is the only corner of
Australia where the writer may get a
word in.
When my first book, Forever Morning,
was published, I learned from the reviewers
the following interesting facts: That my
style was immature. That it was excel-
lent. That I was prone to sentimentalism.
That I was never guilty of sentimentalism.
That I had written sympathetically about
the bush without lapsing into the fault of
misrepresenting the city. That the extent
to which I had praised the bush as against
the town was laughable. That my charac-
ters were sometimes stilted. That the
naturalness of my characters was a source
of delight. That the book had not much
plot. That it had an absorbing plot. One
enthusiast said it was a great book. Another,
of course, said it wasn’t.
The reviewers were, on the whole, the
kindly hosts of my literary debut; and I
have not, herein, scrambled their opinions
out of malice, but just to show that views
differ, even among those who know.
On one point there was almost complete
unanimity. It was implicit rather than ex-
plicit. Its effect was to disrate the book as
a literary effort because I had chosen to
give it what is conventionally known as a
happy ending. One critic was frankly face-
tious on the point.
The aim of Forever Morning, as distinct
from the plot, was, unless I missed my
target, an attempt to represent my men
and women living courageously in the face
of their difficulties. On the last j)age I
left two of them enjoying a brief hour in
the sun of complete contentment. To do so
was an artistic sin. This, unless I misread
the reviewers, is the attitude of the moment
towards any book which has an agreeable
ending. I suggest that it is a wrong view
to take.
I have just finished reading a book of
the other sort. It is exceptionally well
written. Taken as a description of a phase
of our life it is a contribution to Australian
literature. Half-way through it I said
to myself, “This writer has got himself into
a hobble. I don’t think he will be able to
extricate his characters from the situation
in which he has placed them.” But the
quality of the writing was such that I
thought, “Oh, he must have something up
his sleeve.” But he hadn’t! He solved the
situation by having his characters, like those
in Hamlet, drop dead in the last scene.
One was left, flapping about like a crow on
a deserted Selection.
I appreciate high tragedy. But it must
be really high. This tale, in my opinion,
began like a day’s outing and ended like
something stuck in a ditch. And yet the
inference to be drawn from my reading of
reviews is that this is the sort of thing
that current critical opinion regards as
being, in a literary sense, most worth while.
It is art. The writer who truckles to the
almost universal desire among readers for
a tale with a pleasant ending is sinking
to mere commercialism. Or, at the least,
he is choosing to function on a lower liter-
ary plane than he who insists on pointing
the too-well-known philosophic reflection
that all life ends in defeat.
I have tried both methods, and I con-
sider that it imposes a more severe tax
on the inventiveness of a writer to devise
an ending that is agreeable, and at the
same time artistically satisfying, than it
does to do the other thing.
I think that a general recognition of that
proposition would be helpful to the cause
of Australian book-writing. In all humility
I submit it for the consideration of the
reviewers.
I would not submit anything for the
consideration of writers. Each will work
by the light that is in him.
F. D. DAVISON.
A Satchel of Books
Shell art's Secret, by Emmeline Morrison
(Hutchinson; 7s. Gd. net). A nice love
story, written in mittens, arising from a
missing will; all very moral and serious,
with a heavenly outcome.
The Year's Art, 1931 (Hutchinson; 15s.
net). A summary of all matters relating
to the arts of painting, sculpture, engraving
and architecture in the British Empire, good,
on the whole, but the Australian section
needs strengthening.
Mahatma, by S. Woods Hill (Methuen:
7s. Gd. net). The author of “Avatar in
Vishnu Land” knows! a lot about India, and
has put it all into this story of a dock con-
tract, in which economic considerations are
complicated by religious, political, social,
sexual and financial ambitions. The story
has much vivid portraiture, but drags in
places.
If you can read this kind of stuff without
reference to a slang dictionary you may like
R. A. Bennet’s The Deadwood Trail (Col-
lins ; 7s. Gd. net) :
To keep the bunch out of trouble, the shrewd old
foreman stayed at camp and rode herd on the
punchers, while they rode herd on the long-horns....
The outfit was short of grub. Wh'en herd and spread
were safe on the north bank, Jim headed Buck Hatly
and his quarterbreed side-kick Comanch for Ogallala
with the chuck wagon.
The legendary Buffalo Bill, terror of bad
men, cuts a prominent figure throughout.
The Japanese Population Problem, by W.
It. Crocker (Allen and Unwin; 10s. Gd.).
This work, by an Adelaide professor, is the
most objective study of the Pacific problem
made by an Australian writer that present
critic has seen. Nippon’s population pres-
sure is dispassionately analysed and its
effects illustrated in the increasing poverty
of the peasant farmers and in the Japanese
foreign policy. Mr. Crocker holds out hopes
that Japanese statesmen will relieve tlie
situation by internal reorganisation, helped
by the national virtues of self-sacrifice and
patriotism. The capitalists will give up
their power voluntarily as the feudal nobil-
ity did 79 years ago. He was writing.before
Japan’s recent seizure of Manchuria, or he
might have been less optimistic. However,
the book remains of great value to the
student of an important subject.
Holiday, by Frances Noyes Hart (Heine-
mann), is a spirited account of a motor trip
from Havre to Paris, on through the
Chateau Country to the Pyrenees, and back
to Paris by Provence. Mrs. Hart is enthusi-
astic about the historical associations and
beauty of France, and even more so about
its cooking and wines. Her detailed descrip-
tions of the meals that she and her husband
consumed make the mouth water. But what
prices they paid! A little dinner, of which
the chief item was Caneton d la presse, cost
365. without the wines, and that was about
their standard. This is the best guide to
the food of France that the writer has come
across, and it is humanised by the lady’s
references to her absent babies, for whom
she experienced passionate yearnings between
meals.
And a Little Verse
A PUBLIC MAN.
He drones the third-hand platitudes as if
he’s bought them new,
He’s full of stuffy virtues as an old merino
ewe:
He sits the rail, bows to the storm, and keeps
“an open mind,”
And he is where he is because of pushes
from behind.
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
PEACE.
“The peace of God” I heard each long-
droned word,
With unction come.... “that passes under-
standing” ;
The priest of God to benediction stirred,
At the high altar’s Brussels carpet land-
ing,
Mumbled of peace from his exalted perch.
I needed peace; and I fared forth to search.
I tramped along the downs: the tired sea
slept;
Pot-bellied kine lazed ’mid the sun-drenched
lush;
The breeze itself no fanning vigil kept;
The bees were murmurless, and the dart-
ing thrush.
“And here is peace,” some errant genius
spake.
Groaned I: “Stagnation; peace should be
awake.”
On frail dry-rotted twig of gnarled old
stump
Filching the spray from cataract beneath,
Trilled high and eagerly a cock bird plump.
Hymning his mate and fledglings with full
breath,
A lowering heaven above his choir-stall,
Stampeding death within the waterfall.
And “Here is peace,” my soul announced to
me—
“ Strong peace, alive ’mid insecurity!”
S.A.
KENNETH SCOTT.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stomped.. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.W.: Who was silly enough to say the
Douglas system was mad? What this paper said
was that it or any other system of “consumer credit”
or dole would do a great deal more harm than good.
.... T.O’T.: Terence or Timothy, as the case may be,
you’re no poet... .L.J.T.: Some quality; not enough.
. ...M.8.K.: We'd like to tell you they’ve got
promise, only so many poetical p.n’s have been dis-
honored... .S.L.N.: Song doesn’t touch our fancy;
but the life is after our own heart Melba C.:
Don’t climb up into fog when you could keep to
earth and transparent statements. .. .Jeanine: Too
young for u5....1t.5. (S.A.) : Almost thou per-
suadest us to take the seasick lady ; but in the end
she called for the urn too urgently.... Raymond:
As poetry it should be east into outer darkness ; but
it makes a good Lesson for the Day.... Thomas C.,
W.J.S., M. J.C.: No stamina W.E.K.: Well, she
missed your verse, anyway ; and that was something.
....Sand P.: You’re too prolific. Go back and re-
write. ... .1.0.5.: The streets “a charm have under-
went!” Heaven forgive you!... .T.J.H.: But not
without hope.... J. W. Orange: Not ripe yet; and
your ear needs tuning... .Gael: You make it harder
and harder. Truth used to be hidden in a well;
now you go and hide the hole, t 00.... Stan W.:
Tragic verserial made the whole staff weep bitterly.
Rotten bad luck that the flood swept the MS. over
the ledge of the basket.... Bellerive: It moves us to
poetry ourselves: —
Not a line too many
Not a word too few—
That’s the truth re “Bellerive’s”
MONKEYS AT THE ZOO.
Impish little creatures
Prancing in their cage,
Spiteful and repulsive
When their in a rage.
Easy soothed by kindness—
A peanut from the hand
Is a dainty to the monkey,
The imp of jungle land.
The active little monkeys
Are the comedians of the zoo,
Evoketh peals of laughter
By the antics they go through.
. ...H.F.1.: Stick to “Chippin’ Thistles” and quif
maulin' rhymes. .. .A.N.M.: For Heaven’s sake, buy
a rhyming dictionary. . . .F.M.: Dreadful.. . .Pat: “A
Wasted Three Years” is a sheer waste of three scraps
of paper... .William P.: Reads like a nightmare....
Powrac: All published pars, are paid for, when cut
out and forwarded to the accountant... .J.H.: Pass-
ably good exercises in versification, but they lack
grip... .B.B.: That sort of road has been trodden
too often by spring poets. .. .8.W.Q.: Fair enough,
but you take too long to say too little... .G.T.S.:
Ballade has a very tinny tinkle. .. .11. J.H.: Very bad
indeed... .A.M.N.: Excellent sentiment in execrable
verse.... Steve: “Our Dave” cautioned and dis-
charged. .. .Ripponlea: One cynical verse:—
Years passed. He jumped
From position to position;
Then his principles slumped
And he became a politician.
His perquisites and so forth did
jingle, and
Of course he sailed for England.
. ...W.J.W.: When you wrote “Flowers of Rhetoric
won’t pay the rent” you must have been in a pro-
phetic mood. .. .T.O’S.: They amble along- plea-
santly; but there isn’t much beef in them....
C.R.S. : Some verse quality ; overburdened with com-
monplace thought. .. . R.W.T.: And you’ve got thought
and no poetry... .J.T.H.: Keep on. .. .R.G.P.: No
anchorage here for the old tub. .. . A.V.H.: Cheer-
less. ... M.D.S.: That sort of humor is pretty feeble
even when smartly done. .. . W.C.: You can’t resus-
citate that horse... .E.J.D.: Wasn’t worth the
trouble... ,A. 8.5.: Maiden in distress —gallant
rescuer—wedding bells. It’s been done a million
times. .. .H.F.P.: Would suit a woman’s paper with
an early-Victorian editor. .. .W.F.D. : Commonplace.
.... A.Bv.0 1 .: Notl enough kick in it... . JtK.L.:
Mouldy plot; undistinguished writing... .T.J.C. :
Pointless... .J.C.: Could be squeezed into a par.
. ...0.E.W.: An English magazine might take it.
.. . .W.H.8.: Still not keen on it. . . .A.S.R.: Polish
up your style and hunt round for something new.
. ...V.C.N.: The telling is pot dramatic... .S.P.L.:
If that’s how the talkies affect you join a church
choir... .1.W.: Infantile... .G.C.H.: A good plot
wasted.... D.R.E.: Why go to the fowlyard for char-
acters, ... M.S.: N0....E. Els: Threadbare theme in
a well-worn dress... .Jean I.: Don’t do it. Your
idyll sounds like caterpillars in the tea.. . .Jean M.:
Your subject wore the boots off its feet long ago.
But you’ve got a nice, clean attack. . . .Joyce: Weak,
and o in the end ambiguous.... Marie: Your Spring
Song makes heavy going.'.. .Waipiro: A few lines
vivid; more, very weak.... Pix. IT.: Your ships
last sighted sailing in a w.p.b. direction. ...11.L.Y.:
You dwell by day in rainbow halls and by night
float among the stars. But even a poet has to come
to earth for meals. .. .E.N.S.: Too mushy. And “one”
instead of “U” rarely sounds well in verse....
R.F.S.: Have another go at it, and we’ll have another
look at it... .1.G.: Send it to a travel-magazine.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CO RR ESPON D EN TS.
J.J.W.: Not the slightest chance.... P.W. ? You're
three years too late with it. .. . G.T.R.: Lessons
needed... .P.K.: Have lost count of the number of
dninks who have looked muzzily on the bottle-tree.
. ...Y.T.: Didn’t make a favorable impression....
R.S.: You must be a gardener by the way you dig
your pen into the paper. .. .8.Y.: Don’t want trans-
lations from “La Vie Parisienne”. . . . H.T.P. : Hang
round the fruitmarkets until you learn to draw
a Chinaman H.B.R, : It’s hard! to distinguish the
bathers from the wharf piles. .. .R.T.M.: Just aimless
scrawling. .. .S.S.: Conversation between the Jews
is unintelligible to U5....T.8.: Will consider jokes
without drawings. .. .V.M.: Many caddies have
made that retort... .M.S.M.: No use for almost in-
visible pencil sketches. .. .E.H.: Not smart enough.
.... P.N.A.: That brand of humor- makes us look for
an axe....M.A.: Pity you didn’t leave the drawing-
paper as you found it. .. . A.J.J.: Try to stand in the
same position as your parson and see how long you
would remain on your feet... .D. 8.: You think you
have improved 100 per cent. More like .001 per
cent G.M.K.: There’s a world of difference be-
tween drawing for an autograph album and for
Tub Bulletin. .. .K.W.: Don’t care for the boy who
punctuated his prayers with blasphemy... .G.E.:
Drawn at the dinner tabic? Then the blobs on the
right must be soup stains.


1 mat
m I
Lufer “
cr .** ’
HRs
Hr . jj^
> -m
:
wm
m.
ms
:4
H
■ ? '
\
i
| !
. mm
1 wm
m
/7 *
’
m
m a
X
■iiiMmi
■H ill.
5\H» i
f V< 5* » ]
/
I
H
IS
1 p
i.V.
;
I |
FI
.
I
■
WBam
mm
m
ti
I
|H|j|
Hi
§
■
• : .
m
n
<t ''
:
'-'/•••■ a- '4-1
FAMOUS
PORT


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2696.
October 14, 1931.
THE MOTHS AND THE CANDLE.
"The improved prices ruling in Australia for staples an d the fillip to trade in Britain caused by the depreciation of the pound have given new life to the Australian
demand for inflation."-News par.
THE BUTTERFLY: “What a depressed and gloomy world! Why doesn’t somebody light up this candle?"
THE BEETLE: The last time it was lit up they said it was to benefit the Germans; and look down at what happened."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE : 21J, George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 115-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street., Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 55.; 6 months, 12s. Gd.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”; Id. for Goz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom,
via France or America: Id. for soz. To all other
places: Id. fm' 2oz.
LABOR’S LOST IDEALS.
No party ever came into the world with
higher ideals than the Labor party in Aus-
tralia. It was l’eligious in its fervor, maternal
in its unselfishness and Spartan in its sim-
plicity. Very largely its leaders were drawn
from the churches, in some cases from the
pulpit. One of its pioneers, setting out to
take up his new duties, spoke of Parliament
as “Labor’s new Cathedral.” Reform to the
great bulk of these men meant making the
world an easier place in which to practise
the domestic virtues—truth, honesty, up-
rightness, sobriety, thrift.
The party in every State lived up to its
ideals for many years. There was a signifi-
cant and illuminating discussion at one of
the first meetings of the Federal party
in Melbourne, 10 years after the first State
Parliamentary party was bom. These men,
strangers largely to one another, were send-
ing out feelers. One put forward a proposi-
tion on the question of gambling—that the
Post Office should be at the service of Tatt.’s.
Instantly there was a l’allying around two
opponents from the most thoi’ough-going
industrial constituencies of Australia—Yarra
and Bi-oken Hill—and no room was left for
anyone to question where the party stood in
this mattei*.
The argument in Caucus on that occasion
gave a faithful view of the feeling among
the more enlightened part of the Labor
army at that time. There were a few who
objected to official Labor having any truck
with Tatt.’s on moral grounds; but for the
most part the objection was economic. The
professional gambler, not being a producer,
had to be carried by the producers. Upon
that rock Labor built. The non-producer
was a pai’asite no matter what he might
pretend to be. He might be a necessary
parasite; but, necessary or unnecessaiy, he
had to be carried on othei's’ shoulders. And
the fewer there were of him, the lighter the
load. The other day J. E. West, M.P. for
East Sydney, died, after almost a lifetime’s
service in the Labor movement; and a news
paragraph mentioned that he was one of an
almost extinct type in the Labor party,
one of the employer class—a master-
plumber, in fact. Yet there was no reason
at all why an employer should not belong to
the early Labor pai’ty: they were producei’s,
too, and the real division was not between
one gi'oup of producers and another,, but
between producers and parasites, the workers
and the idlers, those who paid toll and
those who took toll. It was in this spirit
that the Trades Hall in Adelaide was pro-
vided largely by one of the city’s richest
men, Barr Smith.
The great change seems to have come
with the increase of payment of membei-s,
or was connected in some way with it. In
the early days of the party payment was so
exceedingly modest that it appealed to
nobody but the sincere reformer: he might
be no worse off than he would have been
had he stuck to his ti’ade, but he was cer-
tainly not a gi’eat deal better off. By
quick advances the pay in some States'was
trebled (in N. S. Wales it went from £3OO
to £875 plus £3O postage allowance); and a
new bi’eed of Labor politician was born —
men who had discovered easier ways of
making a living than working hard for it,
and of making a better living than hard
work ever made. By promoting what they
called class-consciousness, these fleshy para-
sites turned attention from themselves and
their own appetites. The enemy was no
longer the parasitic class; it became the
employer class. So we have the astounding
spectacle of rich social bloodsuckers being
taken to the bosom of the Labor party of
to-day while employers who have built up
great productive undertakings and have thus
supplied work and good wages for thousands
of men are reviled as the enemies of the
worker. Only by cultivating class-conscious-
ness and appealing to it has it been possible
for the horde of parasites on the Labor move-
ment and the worker to retain their own
holds.
The reactions have been enormous. Slowly
the parasitic class has taken almost com-
plete control of the Labor party in some
States —N. S. Wales particularly. One
result has been the building up of a vast
parasitic army within the public service.
There was a time when Labor instinctively
i*ebelled against the addition of a single non-
producer to the bui’dens upon its own back.
When those in control of Labor ceased to
be producers themselves, there was no in-
stinctive rebellion; on the contrary, there
was the welcoming of a friend whenever
another non-producer was loaded upon the
real woi’ker, the real producer. So we have
the appalling multiplication of the public
service; so we have inspectors by the hun-
dred, whose principal work in life is to
harass those who want to get on with their
job; so we have a swollen pxxblic service
exei’cising a great if not deciding influence
upon general elections, the servants of the
people become their masters; so we have
a sendee powerful enough to compel the
re-opening of a State Govei’nment savings
bank which had suspended payment,
although there is alongside it the _ Com-
monwealth Bank doing everything which the
other could possibly do.
But, evil as those reactions have been,
there have been worse. In the lai’gest State,
where the descent has been greatest, where
almost one-third of the adult, workei’s are
reported unemployed and where the dole is
costing £lOO.OOO a week, a State lottery
has been established, and long befoi'e one
can be. drawn another is well on the way:
two drawings have to be crowded into a
single week. Great quexies line up outside
the busted Savings Bank, where this newest
department of State has been quartered;
the proceedings are photographed from
eveiy possible point; the alleged newspapei's
devote columns to the pei’sonal histories of
the winners, along with detailed accounts of
what they propose to do with their winnings.
Then amid these cheers and hosannas are
heard'complaints from the Dole Department
that in hundreds of places dole tickets are
being cashed and the proceeds put into the
State lottery. Simultaneously there is a
bill put through every stage in the Assembly
and only blocked in the Coxxncil, authorising
certain people to resume the purely
gambling “sport” of coui’sing tin hares. All
this at a time when one-third of the workers
of the State are unemployed and the dole
payments amount to £lOO,OOO a week.
Is there no man in the Labor movement
in Australia honest and courageous enough
to lead it back to sanity and the decent
life? Is there none who will show that it
is the parasite who is the burden xipon the
worker —the parasite and not the employer,
though God knows he can be a parasite too?
Is there none who will show that this appeal
to class-consciousness is mainly a damnable
plot to take attention from the vast horde
of union and other pai’asites which has
fastened itself upon the woi*kers? If there is
no mareh back to the old camp with
bannei-s flying and drums beating, is it too
much to hope that there are still tens of
thousands of Labor men who think the
old ideals best, and who will use their
influence to leaven the whole lump with this
sweeter leaven?
RED PLOT OR RED HERRING?
The people who seek to make a new State
out of the Rivei-ina district of N.S.W.
called on Prime Minister Scullin and asked
for an expression of opinion. The result
was unsatisfactory. Scullin, as a party man,
advocates fewer Parliaments, not more. In
fact, he advocates that Australia should be
run by one legislature—the one at Canberra,
no doubt. At the same time he realises that
the thing is impossible, as a man from
Perth or Hobart can’t bring much know-
ledge to bear on'the local concerns of ti-opi-
cal Australia, though he may bring his party
prejudices to bear. So Scullin wants more
local legislatures instead of less, only they
are to be called provincial councils instead
of Parliaments, and they ai-e to be liable to
be squashed at any time if their actions dis-
please the central body. In other words,
they are to have no definite or permanent
powers at all. Whether these ineffectual
bodies will cost more than the present legis-
latures, and if so how much more, is a
matter on which the sketchy Priminister
expressed no opinion. Nor did he say any-
thing about the benefits which the nation is
supposed to derive from the new freak; he
has got his orders, and his own opinions,
if he has any, don’t count. He carefully
avoided stating his personal views on the
matter, though the deputation would have
been glad to hear them.
The change would be a tremendous one,
involving the abolition of the States, the
reduction of the State capitals to the grade
of ordinary towns, and the abolition of the
Commonwealth, which would cease to be a
Federal union and become a dominion or
colony like Maoriland or Newfoundland,
only larger. It would be necessary to get
the consent of the Parliament and people
of evexy State before anything could be
done; the last clause of the Constitution
is quite cantankerous on that point. If
one State (or more than one) should l-efnse
to part with its Parliament, it would lead
to the sudden death of the clumsy scheme,
or else (which is one chance in 10,000) a
way might be found to throw the dissentient
(or dissentients) out so that things might
go on without it (or them). It is absurd to
suppose that the insulted and ejected one
would come back for its debts, for which
the Commonwealth is responsible.
The unification or consolidation scheme is
a reply to the demand for the subdivision
of Australia into more and smaller States.
As regards smaller divisions, there is the
example of every place in the world, except
perhaps Russia, which is a rather incoherent
spot. Subdivision of States is provided for
in the Australian Constitution after a cum-
bersome fashion, but the Constitution
doesn’t provide for secession, or for the
expulsion of States, or for the abolition of
the Commonwealth and the replacement
of the Federal pi-inciple by something wild
and experimental, which might involve any-
thing and lead anywhere.
Not being an instinctive liar Scullin didn’t
say that he sees any good in the grotesque
device of one Parliament for a continent.
Not being in search of martyrdom he didn’t
criticise it. If he had done so the brutal
and rowdy element in his party might have
oi-ganised a movement to throw him out,
and once out it might take him 150 years
to get in again. But he talked in a safe
sort of way about a referendum on the
subject, which he may get if his Govern-
ment holds out and if both Federal Houses
are willing. These matters being all right,
there will be, as already mentioned, the
pi-oblem of secui'ing an affirmative majority
in Australia as a whole and in evei-y State
separately. The final clause of the Consti-
tution says definitely that no State shall
commit suicide’ without its own consent,
which is a difficulty of some size. When all
these impossibilities ai'e surmounted there
will remain the matter of the Royal assent,
which will involve showing that there is
some legitimate object in the movement —
something quite apart from revolution and
repudiation. The doubts and suspicions of
Australia’s outside creditors will certainly
come in here.
Political expediency governs all this Fed-
eral Government’s actions. It is an oppor-
tunist first, last and all the way between.
The enemy it fears most is Lang and his
revolutionaries. How can it dish these?
Nothing would better suit the Reds—the
men who are woi’king for an Australian
Soviet—than unification. Lang, their hope,
is at present merely a roaring nightmare in
a single State, and the efforts to spread
the gospel in the other States have had
little success. Progx-ess that way, they see,
must be painfully slow. But unification!—
unification would permit of a whole con-
tinent being handed over to the revolution
as, on Mr. Lang’s own confession, N. S.
Wales was handed over a year ago.
Mr. Scullin may have very little sympathy
with those who are struggling to turn Aus-
tralia into the Russia of the South. All he
certainly wants is their, votes. He knows
that the legal entanglements which surround
this matter of wiping out Federation and
setting up one State in its stead would last
for years; he may believe therefore that
nothing whatever will happen even if unifi-
cation wins on a referendum. But only a
fool will believe that nothing can happen.
Constitutional difficulties do not matter to
a revolutionary party; that is why it is a
revolutionary party.
Scullin’s idea may be that unification will
make a first-rate red hei-ring. But a red
herring which can be so conveniently tui-ned
into a red plot leading on to a red revolu-
tion is best rejected with enthusiasm.
THE ENGLISH £ AND INFLATION.
There is scarcely an Australian paper that
has not been chortling and chirruping about
the great boost which has been given to
trade in both Britain and Australia by the
depreciation of the English £. Naturally
the inflationists say that this is the very
thing they have been telling us all along:
that a movement which would depreciate
the £ would be followed by great trade
prosperity. Wherefore thex-e is a distinct
recuri-ence of propaganda, and once more
inflation —“regulated” inflation, of course—
threatens to be one of the main issues at
the Federal election next year.
At the very outset a difficulty has to
be faced. It is beyond all question that
the British manufacturer is getting a rush
of oi-ders because the English £ has fallen.
If, then, it is admitted that high prices
for the Australian farmer and brisk business
for the British manufacturer are good things,
how can the devaluing of the £ which has
pi-oduced these good things be a bad thing?
Fii-st we must see what causes this rush of
orders on the Bi'itish manufacturer. His £,
instead of being worth $4.86, is now worth,
say, $3.80. This means that, whereas the
American will pay him the same old dollar
as before, he himself will pay out in £’s
that are worth only $3.80 instead of the old
$4.86. Obviously as long as the manufac-
turer can sell on the $4.86 basis and buy
on the $3.80 basis, he must be in clover;
and he will certainly be able to reduce
his prices to the foreign buyer. The whole
trouble is that somebody is being taken
down; and sooner or later the somebody
will wake up to the fact. The milkman who
waters his goods can afford to sell for a
little less; and if he knows his business he
will get a great rush of trade. But soon his
customers will find out; they will discover,
in short, that they are no better off paying
2s. a gallon for three-foui-ths milk and one-
fourth water than they were when they
paid 2s. Bd. for pure milk. And then,
of course, the rush of business is at an end.
Deliberate inflation is a plan whereby some
traders may make a profit before other
people find out that the milk is watered.
Nine times out of ten it is the worker
who is taken down. It is he who is “the
mug” in Britain at this moment. While the
manufacturer selling on the foreign market
is being paid on the old dollar basis, 4.86
to the £, the manufacturer’s English work-
man is being paid on the new dollar basis,
3.80 to the £. Meantime all the foreign
goods which the British workman has to
buy have to be paid for on the old dollar
basis. Thus the British workman sells cheap
and buys dear. Sooner or later he will
wake up to this fact; but there is always
a lag—wages never move up as fast as
prices; and out of that lag the wide-awake
manufacturer and trader can make a for-
tune. For a manufacturer or trader to
advocate inflation is, therefore, understand-
able; he may be ruined by it, but, on the
other hand, he may make a million: it
depends mainly on the preparations he has
made. So, too, the farmer may make money
out of it, especially by rooking a mortgagee.
Almost any speculator can line his pockets
out of inflation if he knows about it in
advance and is unscrupulous enough. But
for the worker as worker there are no pos-
sible advantages. Nor are there for any
of those with whom the worker has most
sympathy—the pensioner and the man and
woman on a fixed income.
The inflation in Britain is accidental and
not deliberate; it is incidental and not the
thing aimed at. No country tried harder to
avoid it. Others devalued their currency
and had done with it; Britain went back
to the gold standard from which she had
been forced during the war, and wore her-
self out in the struggle to stay there. Fraud
cannot therefore be charged against
Britain; there has been no chicanery
about her great misfortune. But what is
asked of Australia is that she shall deliber-
ately set up inflationary conditions under
cover of which wholesale theft may be
practised—mainly upon the worker.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Monash.
Europe, and for that matter Britain, never
quite understood Australia’s reverence for
General Monash. All recognised his genius.
From the spring of ’lB, when his division
held the Morlancourt Ridge for seven weeks
after the rout of the Fifth Army, and on
from his appointment as commander of the
Australian Corps to the Armistice, he never
made a mistake —and those were days when
many mistakes were being made on both
sides of the line. But he wasn’t soldierly
in the sense that Birdwood was; he never
courted danger; he had no social graces;
he declined to make common cause with
the influential people who were winning the
war from Whitehall; and after the war he
became an unobtrusive civilian again. No-
body could have been more unlike a mili-
tary nation’s conception of a brilliant
General than this stout, lumbering Hebrew
engineer. So Australia, which was only a
military nation “for the duration,” and has
never been a soldierly one, approved of him.
He knew his job; he had learned the
theoretical side of it as a militiaman. He
got straight into khaki in 1914, engaged in
every form of warfare as an infantryman,
fought his way to the top by merit, never
lost his head, and emerged as a Lieut.-Gen-
eral the same bluff, solid, business man in
uniform he had been as a brigade com-
mander on the Peninsula. He was ready
to say “No” to anybody, as he did to
G.H.Q. before Hamel and every time the
death penalty was advocated for the A.1.F.,
yet there never was a sterner battle discipli-
narian. Bridges couldn’t have achieved the
same place in the hearts of Australians; he
was a Scot. White didn’t, despite his tran-
scendent abilities; he was a “regular.”
Monash never enjoyed the kind of popu-
larity that is expressed in a nickname as
Birdwood did. But he embodied nearly all
the attributes that the Diggers most admired
and respected. He was as much a national
figure as Nelson.
- ♦
John Bull Goes to the Poll.
The last act in the drama of Britain’s down-
fall, which reduced John Bull temporarily
from being the financial boss of the world
to the position of a repentant mendicant
asking “credits” from France and other
countries, was crowded into two years—
the period of the second Ramshackle Mac-
Donald Ministry. The movement began in
Lloyd George’s time, but the culmination
only arrived after the Welshman’s down-
fall. The cause was an insane struggle to
be two contradictory kinds of saint at once,
and to get into Heaven by the back door
and the front one at the same moment.
For a year past ready-made suits imported
from Russia have been on sale in Eng-
land for 10s. 6d., shoes for 2s. 6d., hats foi-
ls., and o.ther goods to correspond. This
may be called the result of grinding slavery
or a proof that Bolshevism is a gift from
the gods; it doesn’t matter a cuss either
way. The Freetra.de damfool declared that
Britain mustn’t discourage these cheap im-
ports even if the British worker failed to
compete with them and was unemployed by
millions. In some way the moral uplift of
Freetrade, so people were assured, would
more than make good the loss. At the same
time the trade-union damfool preached that
the unemployed, however numerous, must
be liberally provided for; in fact, they must
get more for remaining unemployed than
many people did for working. The period
of the second Ramshackle MacDonald Min-
istry was a time when these two damloois
reached their highest state of development
simultaneously. The outgoings of the un-
employed (dole) fund became £1,000,000 a
week more than the revenue from all the
imposts and taxes set apart for its supp y,
and the news came all of a sudden to Bn-
tain’s second short-lived Labor Govemmen,


that it had to find or save £120,000,000 per
year or its cheque would be dishonored, like
Lang’s.
To what extent the situation is to be
really faced we shall not know till the
end of the month; the general election has
been fixed for the 27th. If the National
Emergency Government comes back with
a majority, a programme of hard and bitter
economy will be carried into effect, and
aided by protective and other measures the
nation will fight its way back painfully to
a sane and reasonably prosperous life. If,
on the other hand, Labor should win, we
shall have repeated on a large scale what
is happening on a small one in Australia
and in N. S. Wales especially—taxation will
be increased, and by the gradual using-up
of the reserves of liquid resources the hope
of industrial revival will be slowly choked.
That may not be the end of Britain; the
swing-back may occur before the nation is
down and out. But there will be a very
grave danger that, taking the easy course,
the Old Land will go through such a period
of inflation and collapse as Germany under-
went.
The campaign will be short and probably
bitter. More will depend upon it than
upon any other into which Britain was ever
plunged. Italy and some other nations
have decided that democracy is a futility
and a danger which must be scrapped.
To a very great extent this election will
decide whether the same thing is true of
Britain and the British peoples.
The Gold Standard.
“One nation after another,” Mr. Lang told
an audience in Sydney the other day, “has
abolished the pernicious gold standard.”
Mr. Lang is wrong, as usual. Not one
nation, as far as The Bulletin knows, has
abolished the gold standard. Certainly
Britain has not done so. Neither has Aus-
tralia. All that has happened is that we
have both slipped off the standard. But
the standard is still there; and the fact
that our notes are at a discount proves it.
We have a standard for policemen; and it
is still the standard though under stress
of one kind or another we may move away
from it temporarily. In Britain, as in Aus-
tralia, the note issue is still backed by gold.
It might be backed by silver or copper or
rabbit-skins. But it isn’t. It is backed by
gold. And when a heavy drain on her gold
reserves set in the other day, Britain closed
down on it before the note issue was seri-
ously imperilled.
Obviously we must have a standard;
paper is no good without it. Unprinted
paper is worth only a few pounds per ton,
and with ink on it it may be worth much
less. What it is worth is what it can be
exchanged for gold somewhere or other.
So the gold standard has not been
abolished; and it cannot be until another
has been agreed upon andjset up in its place.
Whether that ought not to be done is quite
another matter. One of two things is cer-
tainly called for. Either the world’s gold
ought to do its work better (at present a
great part of it is as impotent as if it had
never been digged), or something else should
take its place or supplement it. But that
is for the future; and all that Mr. Lang
can do about it will make as much differ-
ence as the barking of the dog at the next
corner.
♦
Labor’s Need of Arbitration.
When working-class representatives began
to take their seats in Parliaments, students
of politics wondered how it would work.
Should Labor become, as a Government, an
employer, how would it be able to exercise
discipline? The theorists solved this prob-
lem by envisaging the Labor-governed State
as either Socialist or nationally-co-opera-
tive; and possibly something like that would
have been necessary had circumstances not
been altered. As things turned out, long
before a Labor Government became feas-
ible, Kingston and Reeves gave the world
that ingenious invention compulsory indus-
trial arbitration, and so the awkward para-
dox of the employee as boss was cloaked
beneath the delegated authority of an in-
dustrial court. Since then the value of the
arbitration system to political Labor has
been enormous, and the Scullinites in pur-
porting to fight the most recent Federal
election in defence of the system were on
sound historical and logical ground.
It is a ground that the Labor party in
Australia, if it wishes to continue to enjoy
opportunities of government, should con-
tinue to occupy. It is the only ground, in-
deed, from which it can govern. But both in
the Federal and State fields the authority
of the courts has been broken. By its
wharf-labor regulations the Scullin Gov-
ernment uses its last ounce of privilege and
strains the Constitution to breaking-point
to maintain the authority of a lawless
trades union against that of the Federal
Arbitration Court. In N. S. Wales the
clumsy-footed Lang has punished railway
employees who 14 years ago refused to break
arbitration awards and go out on strike
when the country was at war and the main-
tenance of the railway service was essential
to the safety of the whole Empire.
One of Lang’s Ministers, not so many
weeks ago, told a deputation of dissatis-
fied railwaymen that if they talked strike
the consequences would be on their own
heads. The consequences are now shown to
be virtual promotion. That won’t work.
If Labor wants to save its political life—-
if it wants to make government by Labor
possible—it must defend and maintain the
arbitration system in its original purity. If
it breaks down the system, it breaks down
also its capacity to govern.
The Exchange Tangle.
On the first of the month a heavy payment
on account of interest on Australian loans
floated in New York fell due; and this is
what happened. First, the Australian tax-
payer sent his money from here to London,
London being still the international clear-
ing-house. jft needed £l3O of Australian
money to establish a credit of £IOO in
London. On October 1 the English £ was
worth $3.81; it moved up a trifle the next
day; a few days previously it had been
$3.75. At $3.80 £IOO in London was worth
£7B (omitting shillings) in New York. Thus
we had to put up £167 in Australia to pay
£IOO of interest in New York. That is the
burden which present exchange places on
the taxpayers of Australia.
Why Australia should be thus penalised
because the English £ has gone. off the gold
standard nobody can explain; nobody
attempts to explain. All that anybody
can say is that this is a good thing for
the exporting industries and a bad thing
for the importing industries. That may
be true; but it is also most certainly
true that it places a prodigious burden upon
the taxpayers of Australia at the very
moment when by 221 per cent, interest and
rent cuts and the like we are endeavoring
to reduce the costs of industry.
How Trades Hall Adherents Grow.
Dear Bulletin, —Before this depression
clerical workers in a large shipping, wool and
merchandise firm were approached by the
Clerks’ Union and asked to join up. The
invitation was rejected on the ground that
the clerks had perfect faith in their em-
ployers’ promise never to let them down.
Storemen, watchmen and miscellaneous
workers were not, shall we say, so trustful,
and became unionists. Later, a costing ex-
pert was brought in, and one of his first
actions was to compile lists of union and
non-union employees; then he set to work
pruning. The clerks’ staff was cut to the
bone, and those remaining on the pay-
roll now have to work back without tea
money or overtime. Holidays have been
cut by half, and tally work has been added
to the duties of the regular clerks. On the
other hand, the miscellaneous workers who
became unionists carry blithely on under
old conditions—full holidays, overtime and
immunity from sweating. The clerks now
kick themselves for being so trustful. —
Yours, Onufem.
The Hogans and the Unemployed.
In Victoria the Hogans have been resisting
the proposal of the Leg. Council that it
should be permissible to employ men on
relief work at less than award rates. Well,
we deserve to be in trouble over this matter
as a punishment for putting up so long with
the basic wage and all that it implies.
Ever since the so-called principle of this
basic wage was accepted we have cheerfully
proceeded on the assumption that there is
some mysterious tap which can be turned
on in order to make up the difference
between what a man earns and what he
is paid. As a matter of fact, two taps were
discovered. From the first of them Australia
drew a flood of loan money which permitted
it to go on living the lie that a country
can pay more than it earns. When that
tap ran dry taxation was resorted to for
the purpose of draining off the savings of
the past—that fund which, in our system of
civilisation, is indispensable for maintain-
ing and extending industry. The Hogans,
like the Langs and the Scullins, have been
draining away this indispensable reservoir
throughout the past year and inevitably
causing unemployment in the process.
The country’s hope of salvation lies in
realising that nearly all our award rates
and the like were reached in a period when
we were as drunk and incapable as any
Saturday-night roysterer ever was. They
can only be maintained now at the cost
of our system of government and civilisa-
tion. The whole weight of the Communist
party is behind the refusal to accommodate
wages and hours to present conditions. The
Communists know thoroughly well that these
wages are not being earned; they know that
the true earnings have to be supplemented,
and that, in the absence of foreign loans, the
only way in which they can be supplemented
is by rifling the pockets of the taxpayers.
Mr. Lang the other day boasted to the
Trades Hall that the revolution was in
progress—that it was being achieved by
constitutional processes. But whatever the
implement, always the aim is to level down.
And Mr. Lang is entirely right in claiming
that he has made vast strides in that direc-
tion—far vaster strides than most of us
seem to realise.
Our greatest immediate danger is that
men like Mr. Hogan of Victoria will not
realise whither they are being dragged.
They will remain blind to the fact which
Mr. Lang so bluntly proclaims—that all
this struggle to maintain wages that are not
earned is part of the Communist revolution,
inasmuch as the deficiency must be made
good by “expropriation,” as it is politely
called. So the Hogans are merely tools in
the hands of the army for whom Lang is
the Australian spear-point—unconscious
tools no doubt, but not a bit the less effec-
tive on that account.
The Community Hospital.
“Pawang”: Recently I had a casualty in
my family and managed to get the patient
into one of Melbourne’s general hospitals.
I learnt afterwards that I should not have
done so. I was not indigent enough to
qualify to take advantage of the efficiency
of the public institution. I should have
gone to a private hospital. I had been in
a private hospital just previously. The
operating-room was about on the level of
the post-mortem room in this general hos-
pital. There was chipped enamel every-
where. There was no fleuroscopic X-ray
plant, or portable plant for X-raying at
the bedside, or special fracture cots, or
physio-therapy, electrical diathermy or
bacteriological departments. There was
just the bare amount of equipment to re-
turn the maximum of profit to the doctors
who owned the place. Sickness is no res-
pecter of persons, but our hospital system
enables the pauper to get all the efficiency,
and the rest of the community is lucky if
it gets any.
Under the community hospital system this
would all be altered. As a rule the com-
munity hospital has three divisions—for
the indigent patient, the intermediate and
the full-paying. The services are for all;
but the well-to-do patient pays a fee which,
while probably not as high as he would
pay at a private hospital, is sufficient to
cover not only the service he receives him-
self, but the deficit on the other divisions.
At present the Government hands out
£240,000 to hospitals and charities, but with
things as they are it is not nearly enough
and every hospital is cutting down expenses
to the danger point. A million pounds
would convert Melbourne’s general hospitals
into community hospitals, and the revenue
raised from the paying beds would repay
the capital expenditure inside six years.
Opposition might come from a few sur-
geons, whose fees would come down a peg
or two; also from the small and inefficient
private hospital. But the health of the
community is more important than either of
these.
• ♦
On the Sunshine Track.
“Gad’s" jottings by the way:—
I am camped in a little seaside town in North
Queensland which lias something to shout about.
But there is no one to do the shouting. I laughed
when I read the signboard in the railway station:
“CARDWELL.
20 Minutes for Refreshments.
PISH MEALS.”
Here we are on the highway of the Sunshine route.
Out on the skyline of the bay I see more than half
a dozen islands. On the right is Hinchinbrook. On
the left Dunk. The little town of Cardwell is a
decaying corpse. There is no one to shout out that
this is the gateway to Dunk Island and' other places
of surpassing beauty and interest. I asked a Card-
wellite to-day, “Which is Dunk Island?” He: “I
think that’s it on the left.” I: “How do you get
there ?” He: “I don’t rightly know. You better ask the
bloke at the wharf. He has a motor-boat.” I asked
the bloke at the wharf. He saijd: “Well, I take
people out once in a blue moon; but for a special
trip I’d have to charge £5. It’s 23 miles.” Yes,
he knew of Banfield. Thought he’d been dead about
10 years. There were a couple of jokers on the
island now. Growing bananas. And not making
much of a do of it, either. I thought of a story
I heard soon after Banfield died. Prom out over all
the world came letters of sympathy to his widow.
Amongst these one from a batch of convicts in Sing-
Sing prison, in the U.S.A., saying how sorry they
were to hear of his death. How much they had
enjoyed his books. How they regretted that now
there would be no more of them.
Meanwhile, Cardwell—2o minutes here for a fish
meal.
As a sign of the times up here I mention two
Italian bagmen. They were on the road out of
Innisfail—towards Tully. When my mate saw them
he said, “Well, if they can’t land a job, it’s a
poor lookout for us.” Up here you feel you would
have a more sporting chance if you had a name like
Spaghetti. But, still, God bless them!—they’ve got
on to the land all right and they raise tons of cane
to the strains of “O Sole Mio.” Of course there
is racial antipathy; but that problem will solve
itself. Time is on the side of the Italo-Queenslanders.
They don’t marry Australians, but they do get a
quiverful of children. Superficially they are accli-
matised. They say “Gud d’y” and “How’s things?”
and “Good-o,” but they remain aliens at heart. And
they are amongst the world’s worst horsemen and
horsemasters.
The other evening I walked into a place called
Mena Creek, about 10 miles from Innisfail. The
main industry is, of course, a hotel. The hotel-
keeper was French. The bartender was Spanish.
I was bidden to take part in conviviality by a Ger-
man. Meanwhile two Irishmen and one Welshman
looked on, hoping to get in on the next round.
I don’t know if there were any real Australians
thereabouts. Probably they were helping to build
the picture theatre—a gaudy-looking affair going up
by a beautiful waterfall. It was the one place
where a picture theatre would be vile.
Amongst the world’s worst roads is the stretch
in and out of InnisfaiL But all about this North
are roads which are only little better. God gave
this northern section a plentiful supply of harbors, so
that there was little need for railways. Roads would
have scattered tourists throughout these favored
parts. But good roads except near capital cities are
no part of Australian political enterprise. So Card-
well remains a place where you stop for 20 minutes
for refreshment in the railway refreshment-room or
the Dago joint across the way.
4
More About Social Credit.
An avalanche of brochures on social-credit
has descended upon 214 George-street North;
and the latest may serve as well as any to
hang this discourse on. It calls itself “In
Our Time,” and is by J. G. Lamb. It has
one quality common to them all—it can
shut its eyes to a chasm and leap it with
any mountain goat.
The one thing you must believe in
connection with all these Douglas and
near-Douglas schemes is that goods
are sold at so much more than has
been paid in money for their production
that there isn’t enough money to buy them:
Mr. Lamb puts it that there is a shortage
of one-third. Hie accepts the estimate
that the new wealth created in Australia
in a year is 450 millions; and if one-third
of this has not been paid out in actual money
for its production, there is, if the theory is
accepted, 150 millions of goods that are
unpurchasable. The way out, as this
disciple of the Major sees it, is easy.
The population of Australia is 6,500,000-
three million adults, the balance children.
If every adult had an extra 15s. a week and
every child 45., it would just absorb this
150 millions; so why not give them the
money? The machinery is simple; estab-
lish a credit for the amount, making every-
body first open an account. But so that,
under the influence of this extra purchasing,
prices would not bound up, they must be
stabilised. Assuming this can be done
—assuming that a price can be fixed
for, say, all the women’s hats in Australia
—this apostle assures us that trade will
improve enormously, nobody will be un-
employed, nobody will fear to be ever out
of work again, there will be no distress,
and no friction between employers and
employed, and pensions will not be wanted
any more.
But of course there is a catch in it.
“Credits are loans; and, just as the banks
require of their customers that the credits
granted shall be repaid, so the loans or
credits advanced to the people must be
repaid in the form of taxation.” So,
after all, this Social Credit system turns out
to be no more than a glorified cash-order
system, only here you go to the State
instead of to R. H. Gordon’s, and you have
to take it whether you want it or not.
But there is another difference: at least the
person who gets a cash order from R. H.
Gordon is responsible for the repayment of it:
under this system the taxpayer is responsible.
And you can escape taxation by lying on
your back in the Domain.
A feature of the present banking system
is that advances are made only to stimulate
production. When you borrow money the
banker wants to know what is going to be
done with it—he wants to be sure that it
will be productive and so will come back to
him. When this social credit is issued there
is no foolishness of that sort: it is issued,
not to increase production, but to bloat
consumption. We have already got the
system at work in Australia—in N. S. Wales
especially. Here social credits to the
amount of about 15s. a week for adults and
4s. for children have been issued for 12
months past to probably 300,000 people, and
we were never so unprosperous in all our
days. With modifications, certainly, the
Social Credit system has been in operation
in N. S. Wales for 12 months. Its other
name is the dole, and it is an unmitigated
curse.
4
Another Taxation Scandal.
The Commonwealth during the past 12
months has exhibited dangerous weakness
in its relations with the States. It has per-
mitted attack after attack to be made on
the principle of inter-State Freetrade; it
suffered the seizure in Sydney of flour con-
signed to Asiatic ports; it is not even pro-
ceeding to judgment against the N. S.
Welsher Government, which defaulted in
defiance of its constitutional, as well as its
moral, obligations, though the interest-
default campaign was continued on the plat- .
form during the very, week in which the
High Court case was withdrawn. But Com-
monwealth power can be resorted to fast
enough when it is a question of protecting
Commonwealth politicians and public ser-
vants.
The Financial Emergency Bill was drafted
when Lang was trying to smite his subjects
with a special tax of ss. in the £. It
occurred to the Government that it would
be a dreadful thing if ss. in the £, or any-
thing like it, were taken from Common-
wealth members and employees in N. S.
Wales whose salaries were about to be re-
duced, so, as Mr. Theodore put it:—
Provision has been made In clause 17 to
limit the effect of any increase in State taxation
above the taxation in force on June 30. It is not
practicable to fix in the bill a definite limit to such
increases, and “prescribed rates and percentages”
will be determined by the Governor-General; the
matter is left to his discretion.
So, in effect, the Governor-General is
added to the number of non-elected people
who make taxation laws that the electors
must obey. Clause 17 reads:—
The allowances, or salary and allowances, of any
Senator or member of the House of Representatives
and of any Minister of State, and the salary of any
officer or employee, after reduction... .shall not be
subject under the law of any State to taxation at a
higher rate or percentage or to a greater extent 'than
the prescribed rates or percentages of that salary
in addition to any tax imposed on that salary under
any law in force in that State on June 30, 1931.
In committee “1930” was ingeniously sub-
stituted for “1931.” One result is that
Queensland, which recently raised its un-
employment-relief tax from 3d. in the £
to 6d. (Lang’s tax is Is.), can’t collect the
additional 3d. from its Federal members and
its small army of Federal employees. South
Australia is in a similar fix, and is in
greater need of the money than Queensland,
the collapse of commodity prices having
been preceded in the Central State by years
of drought.
Apd while Commonwealth power is thus
being exercised in the interest of a favored,
section, the Scullin Government is not lift-
ing a finger to prevent Lang’s taxation
department extorting relief tax, at the rate
of 7£d. in the £, on income from other States
which has already borne Federal, State and
local relief taxes, though the proceeding is
not only wickedly unjust but in flat con-
tempt of Commonwealth power.


In Craven “A” I always find what I expect
... that extra touch of Quality
CRAVEN "A
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
A
POLITICAL
POINTS
An Englishman and a Frenchman hid
against one another for our wool. Now
trace what happens. The Englishman bids
a price that means he will pay £lOO English
for the lot. The Frenchman bids 5 p.c.
higher. He knows he can afford to do it
because £lOO of French money at par will
pay £l2O in London. This is another result
of the exchange tangle. In their struggle
to help the primary producer (and therefore
themselves), Australian banks have put a
20 p.c. handicap on the British buyers of
our goods as against other buyers.
Germany got rid of millions and millions
of debt by inflation; but all Australia could
get rid of wouldn’t fatten a sparrow. When
Germany floated loans it floated them in
Germany, and foreign investors were paid
interest in German money; also when they
ran out repayment was made in German
UNCLE SAM : “Wattered it down again, have
you? Well, son, remember I ain’t
payin’ for no watter!”
money. So the foreign investor was in the
end fobbed off with a farthing in the f. But
Australia’s foreign loans were floated over-
seas ; interest has to be paid in foreign cur-
rency; and all the inflation it likes to prac-
tise won’t relieve Australia of one ha’porth
of this debt. Just at present, since our
inflation has already gone much further than
most of us realise, our £lOO isn’t worth £6O
in New York.
A “Tory” Premier introduced the subven-
tion that N.S.W. friendly societies have been
getting for 23 years; a “Labor” Premier is
cutting it from £BO,OOO to £50,000- —this
after breaking the bank in whie.i the friendly
societies had substantial funds. Yet the
beneficiaries are all working-class folk who
have been unfortunate; of £77,433 paid in
subvention claims in 1930, £11,161 went to
sick members and £31,042 to members who
were too old and feeble to work; £26,920
was for medicine and medical attendance
and £8307 for funeral expenses. Leaders of
the friendly societies are now telling the
“Labor” Premier how far removed he. is
from “the greatest statesman in Australia,”
as the sycophantic Concannon calls him.
A sidelight on the evolution of Government
departments is provided by the N.S.W.
lottery. To run this ought to be the simplest
job on earth; and at the outset it was stated
that Mr. Whiddon and half a dozen clerks
would suffice. There is now a staff of 260,
and a log filed by the Clerks’ Union
refers to junior clerks, filing clerks, tele-
phone attendants, typists, senior typists,
correspondence clerks, collecting clerks,
cashiers, order-dispatch clerks, invoice clerks,
senior or chief dispatch clerks, daybook
clerks, ledgerkeepers, chief ledgerkeepers,
goods clerks, operators of calculating
machines, timekeepers, wages clerks, cost
accountants of three sorts, estimating
clerks and casuals. Wages demanded range
from £1 13s. a week (35 hours) for office
boys and £5 ISs. for juniors, aged “20 and
under.” to £l5 14s. for a cost accountant,
together with overtime after seven hours
25 p.c. extra for working under electric
light, and free morning- and afterrioon-tea.
Two hundred and sixty clerks to give
receipts for ss. 3d. when it is paid in, and
send out the prizes when they are drawn.
No wonder the superannuated old gentleman
in charge of Lang’s two-up school admits
that there was no profit on the first venture.
At an average of £5-odd a week the staff costs
£75,000 a year. Is the Lang Government
game to call for tenders for running the
business at a maximum of £25,000, and save
the other £50,000 for the hospitals?
If MacDonald sticks to his present inten-
tion of standing for the Seaham division of
Durham again, the polling figures should be
interesting. In June, 1929, he got ooJjlo
votes there, his three opponents, a Con-
servative, a Liberal and a Communist, secur-
ing 13,518 among them. At Derby Thomas
topped the poll with 39,658_; his Labor
stable-mate was some 3000 behind him; two
Conservatives scored 24,553 and 20,443, and
a Liberal whipped in the field with 11,317.
Should Ramsay Mac. or Thomas or both
crash, safe seats will doubtless be found for
them. A prominent party man can always
count on that much consideration in Britain;
in Australia, where parties are much smaller,
seats are not so accommodatingly surren-
dered.
Maoriland is budgeting for a small sur-
plus, despite a vast falling away of tax-
revenue and continued losses on the railways.
Shortages in revenue are to be made up by
economy in the departments, saving £400,000
(this is the third cut) ; by extra duties on
petrol and tobacco, and by additions to in-
dividual, but not to company, income tax,
though the increased impost will still be
mild, judged by Australian standards. Far-
mers are to have their moratorium extended
and enlarged and are promised £lOO,OOO
worth of fertilisers as a gift. There are to
be no cuts in pensions, nor any legalised
robbery of the small investor. Maoriland
can still borrow, so it is proposed to spend
£4,750,000 on public works. And the Arbi-
tration Act will be amended in order to
“reduce costs and increase employment.”
Conversion, plus a 22i p.c. interest reduc-
tion, has been forced on the “hungry bond-
holder” of Lang’s imagination; and if he
has to sell the present-day equivalent of the
6 p.c. bond for which he gave £lOO this time
last year he will lose at least £l5 on his
investment —more if he had to take one _of
the longer-dated securities. A 22-J p.c. in-
terest reduction was also imposed on banks,
life-assurance societies and private mortgagees,
and a 22J p.c. rent reduction on the house-
owner —that’s if he can get any rent; thou-
sands in Sydney can’t. But the N.S.W.
Assemblyman is making no p.c. sacrifice
on his own account. Cut included, he is still
drawing £706 a year, together with £3O for
postage and the use of a railway and tram-
way pass. He is actually getting £lO6 a year
more than he got between July, 1922, and
July, 1925, and £206 a year more than his
salary throughout the war and after —right
up till November, 1920. Trust the N.S.W.
politician to look after himself!
It is unusual for a Premier to move
the adjournment of the H'ouse through
a friend to complain at great length that
a man outside Parliament has a dislike
for him. Lang did this before the N.S.W.
Assembly rested from its labors; but
then Lang is unusual most of the time. He
didn’t tell the Assembly that Gibson, of the
Commonwealth Bank, had spoken or written
disrespectfully of him, or even looked at him
“Hate me like poison, don’t you? Yet you
won’t give a man the satisfaction of
telling him so, though you know from
my friend Concannon that I revel in
being abused.”
with a scoffing expression in his eye, but he
holds that the way the Commonwealth Savings
Bank is picking up business which has left
the collapsed State institution shows “per-
sonal antipathy.” It is difficult to prove, of
course. Gibson may consider that Bang is an
ill-conditioned ass, but Lang can hardly have
Gibson interrogated as to his views at the
bar of the House. And there is no law as
yet allowing proceedings for suppressed or
internal libel. “Inasmuch as the defendant
did look as if he thought the plaintiff had
the manners and intellect of one of the in-
ferior animals” is hardly the sort of plea
to convince a jury.
Exclusive of “rationing” and relief taxes,
salary and wage reductions in the Govern-
ment services work out at 20.5 p.c. in Vic-
toria, 20 p.c. in South Aus., 19.2 p.c. in the
Commonwealth and Westralia, 15.1 p.c. in
Queensland (that State had done a bit of
pruning already) and 12.8 p.c. in N. S.
Wales. Lang promised to make it 20 p.c.,
but what is the value of s Lang promise?
“In spite of the efforts of Mr. Lyons to secure
the party nomination for Mr. W. M. Hughes, the
feeling among branches in North Sydney is that
another candidate should be selected, although the
present member may he endorsed."
“What in thunder do they mean by it,
Archdale? Haven’t I been Labor,
Nationalist, Independent, Australian
party and United party? ’ Don’t I
represent every shade of opinion in the
blasted electorate?”
Forced by pressure from the. “Age,” the
H'ogans have submitted a bill to Vic.
Assembly to prevent sweating in the cloth-
ing and textile industries. That such a
measure should be necessary is a poor adver-
tisement for “the movement” into which the
Vic. Labor-unions alone have been putting
about half a million a year.
The story of an outbacker’s experience with
Lang and his taxgatherers has appeared in
“S. M. Herald.” The man sent a cheque from
a far-west town in payment of relief tax. The
letter arrived on Friday but remained un-
opened over Saturday—Lang’s taxgatherers
don’t work that day, though they draw their
salaries. On Monday they posted a receipt
and sent the cheque to be collected at Lang s
Rural Bank, where it was payable. The
bank was open when the cheque left Sydney
but was closed when it reached the western
town, so the cheque was no good. Neither
was the receipt any good, for the money was
shut up in Lang’s own bank by his own
act, along with all the rest of the debtor s
savings. Now Lang’s taxgatherers have fined
the man for non-payment (the fine is 10 p.c.
of the tax, or perhaps 40 p.c. p.a.) and are
trying to collect again.
Bowing to the storm of criticism of his
proposal to increase income tax 25 p.c. (this
on top of a 50 p.c. rise in unemployment
tax), Vic. Premier Hogan has told Parlia-
ment that he will “pass on to the tax-
payer” what he saves in exchange on London
(possibly half a million) and in the Educa-
tion Department by adopting recommenda-
tions of the inquiry board. Hogan budgeted
for a deficit of £821,000, but sinking-fund
payments will reduce the public debt by
£BBl,OOO. While making these explanations
Hogan told the House what terribly igno-
rant fellows Argyle and Allan were, and
how hopeless it was to to try to make them
understand anything about finance—the
Hogan way of showing how indispensable
Hogan’s services are to the State.
With a general election only seven or
eight months off the Queensland Government
party is still arguing over the re-establish-
ment of the Leg. Council. A lengthy con-
ference on the subject last week came to
nothing. Some members want a referendum
first; others have the effrontery to demand
the extension of the life of the present
Assembly for two years. It now looks as if
nothing will be done, and if the Moore Gov-
ernment is beaten at the polls* its members
and followers will live to regret their shilly-
shallying. Surely events in N. S. Wales
should have convinced them of the necessity
for a brake on mad-dog legislation.
N.S.W. Minister Badly has made the
dreadful admission that “women _ leading
lives of shame have been accepting dole
coupons from men who have been obtain-
, ing extra relief grants by fraud and
misrepresentation.” He had previously
confessed that dole coupons had been given
in payment for booze, lottery tickets and
starting-price bets. Yet this appalling block-
head declares that “the only way the Gov-
ernment can do more for the unemployed is
by additional taxation,” adding the threat
that “if the Leg. Council will not give effect
to the Government’s policy in one way, the.
Government will take another way”—-the
way of regulation. Robbery by regulation,
and that on the part of a Government
which is so unspeakably incapable that it
can’t prevent the people’s money going to
gamblers and Flossies! N. S. Wales has
stood so many things from Badly’s mob that
the rest of Australia marvels at its docility;
but it wouldn’t stand that.
Among the signs of practical economy in
Britain, stock exchanges and law courts
are beginning to work on Saturday mornings,
and it will be a good sign when law courts
and Government offices follow suit in Aus-
tralia. The loafing Saturday is unscrip-
tural for one thing, it being distinctly stated
in the Decalogue that man shall work six
days in the week. A great deal is said
about reducing the charges and the delays
of law, and by making the legal machine
work 20 per cent, faster both ends should
be achieved. When legal or other machinery
loafs and rusts one working day in every
six someone pays for the delay.
For the third time Yic. Uppish House has
suggested that the super-income tax for
unemployed-relief should be altered without
reducing the total amount proposed to be
raised, and that pay for works financed by
it should range fronj 4d. an horn' (for
youths) to Is. 2d. The Assembly will now
have to fight or compromise, and it looks as
if a conference will be sought to-day. Since
Federation every conference, of managers of
both Houses has resulted in some sort of
arrangement. The Hogans are between the
Devil and the deep sea. If they compromise
they will further offend the Trades Hall,
which is already walloping them, and if they
don’t they may precipitate an election, at
which they would go down for a certainty.
The Elcho State training farm is for sale
cheap. It was started for the agricultural
education ,of “migrants” at the time when
politicians were filled with the idea that
the smallest and most densely peopled main-
land State had good land to spare in plenty,
and wanted only the nicest people to settle
on it. “Migrants” went to Elcho to get the
training which was to 1 turn them into first-
class farmers, and found (or say they did)
that there were too many theorists on the
premises. The Elcho account is that they
were mostly the wrong class of people, and
they replied that if the Government office in
London had told them that simple fact they
wouldn’t have come. They went on the land
in the long run, and most of them lost their
money and demand compensation. The basis
of the trouble was apparently that politi-
cians like Lawson had lots of enthusiasm and
no cow-and-wheat knowledge.
Lang threw out his chest at the Eight-
hour dinner in Sydney and told them that
“for hundreds of. years every Act of Parlia-
ment has had written through it the sanctity
of the written contract”; but he, the Great
“Sdill dearing oop sgraps of paper? You’ll
ged id in der neck, sooner or lader—
as I did”
Reformer of Auburn, had shown, the world
that “the welfare of the people” must take
the place of that “iniquitous condition.”
Lang probably never heard of the Civil War
in America —fought on the question of “the
sanctity of the written contract” and the
right thereunder of every man to wallop his
own nigger. Lang thinks he laid down the
proposition that “the welfare of the people”
must be supreme; Abraham Lincoln and a
few more men of that size thought they had
something to do with it. But doubtless Abe
was wrong.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Uramao” : A Cold Tea member of the M.L.
Upper House had a cruel experience lately.
Leaving Lyttelton for Wellington one cold
night he took the precaution of placing a
hot-water bag in his suitcase, but when he
unpacked he found the stopper was missing.
The steward advised a couple Of beer bottles
filled with hot water ; after some demur the
substitute was accepted. Unfortunately the
passage was a stormy one, the politician was
very sick, and the lurch of the steamer was
so had that it precipitated him and the heat-
ing apparatus out of bunk. A brother-legis-
lator, hearing the crash, looked in and saw
the Cold Tea man lying on the floor, utterly
indifferent to appe aranees >. with two _ beer
bottles rolling about alongside. The Visitor
discreetly withdrew, but his story lost no-
thing in the telling.
* * * *
“D.M.”: The death of Richard Denis
Meagher revives memories of the Dean
case. I wonder how many know what be-
“THEY HAVE THEIR MUMMIE'S HAIR AND COMPLEXION.”
came of Dean after he had served his sen-
tence. I was a reporter on the long-defunct
“Daily Post” and “did” the preliminary
trial. Press accommodation being scarce, I
was given a seat at the table next to the
prisoner, and had several . talks with
him. Years later I met him ■ again in
a small mining township about 25 miles
from Kalgoorlie. We were in a bar, and my
companion, a Sydney man who had known
Dean well, asked me if I recognised “that
fellow on the right.” I didn’t at first, but
after one or two shouts I recalled myself
to the stranger and asked him how he was
getting on. He froze at the mention of his
rightful name, until I reminded him where
we had first met, after which he became
more communicative. But “My name’s
now,” he told me; “don’t say anything.” He
had grown a beard and told me he was
cutting sandalwood. I never saw him again.
* * * *
“Eugene A.”: The disappearance of a
constable at Bendemeer (N.S.W.) and the
subsequent finding of his body in the river
were promptly featured by the Sydney press
as indicating that an atrocious murder had
been committed. As the story gradually
unwound itself, it became clear that the
deceased had been at some pains to create
such an impression. He had left his wife
with a story of a swagman coming to him
to complain of the doings of a lunatic who
was molesting campers on the river bank,
and the theory was immediately formed that
either the madman had murdered the con-
stable or the swagman had decoyed him away
to his doom. But when no trace of either
swagman or lunatic could be found, nor
anything to show that either had ever
existed, investigations naturally took a new
tack. It was a doctor who solved the
problem; he found no marks of violence
outside the body, although it had been recov-
ered from comparatively shallow water, and
strychnine inside it. So another mysterious
crime, which might have resulted in a hue-
and-cry and a scared countryside, boiled
down to a case of felo de se, the preliminaries
of which had an obvious bearing on the
fact that the Police Department provides
special pension concessions for the depen-
dants of an officer who meets his death on
active duty.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: Victorians have recently been
offered the spectacle of an archbishop
solemnly arguing in the newspapers with
a bishop of his own denomination as to
whether Australians are economically free
or not. Archbishop Head had said that
economic freedom was terribly lacking in
this country, and Bishop Hart, of Wanga-
ratta, retorted that liis superior hadn’t suffi-
ciently thought out his subject. The econo-
mics of both ecclesiastical gentlemen could
be faulted by a child at school, but that
is not extraordinary. What is extraordinary
is that churchmen on salaries should discuss
the question of other people’s economic free-
dom at all, when their own lack of it so
obviously calls for consideration. The only
man of religion I knew who was more or
less economically free was an Indian yogi
whose worldly possessions consisted of a
pocket-handkerchief about his middle, a
string across his chest and a rice bowl. He
told me that he had no need of money,
because if he wanted to go elsewhere he
transported himself in the spirit, and he
obtained knowledge not from books but from
contemplation of his stomach. Yet even he
had to depend on other people to fill his rice
bowl.
* * *
“Bloggs” : What’s the strength of nudism?
The surfing and sun-baking cults are
no doubt allied to it. Eighty per cent, of
those who lie about beaches in bathing-
costumes have exhibitionist complexes. They
have figures worth exhibiting, which is per-
haps the chief reason why they are surfers.
You see only the fat, the skinny and the old
hurrying self-consciously to or from the water.
But nudists don’t resemble Greek gods or god-
desses, judging by German photographs. They
look a rather debilitated lot, with no cause
at all for body-pride. And so it appears to
be here. One lady who wrote applying for
admission to the Australian Health Club
mentioned that she was “a lifelong martyr
to asthma, and thought nudism might help
her.” The idea is that periodical spells
with nothing on are more invigorating than
spells in the fragmentary garments that the
law allows —which is, of course, absurd. I
refuse to believe that lasciviousness is the
urge; and I speak as a frequenter of Turk-
ish baths and golf-club locker-rooms. There
can be few surer preventives of eroticism
than a glimpse of the hairy, mottled, pendu-
lous horror which is the average male body
in an unclothed state. And I have good
authority for stating that sex appeal is just
as rare in the case of a mixed bag of nude
golf associates. Only one explanation re-
mains—snobbery. There are people who like
to be peculiar; they are conchies in war-
time, republicans under monarchies, anti-
clericals in Rome, and so on. Nudism was
bound to come in over-clothed Sydney, and
I fancy the Health Club will succeed in spite
of the puritanical councillors of Sutherland
Shire. Members with the hardihood to
endure the spectacle of one another com-
pletely naked for eight or nine hours on end
aren’t going to be intimidated by the Police
Offences Act.
* * * *
“Mells”: Passion-fruit may be regarded
with suspicion in the U.S.A. and with little
enthusiasm in England (B. 7/10/’3l), but
it had an established vogue in South Africa
40 years ago, all
the more because
it ripened at a
time of year when
little else did. But
it wasn’t called
passion - fruit; it
figured under the
South American
name of granadilla.
It is quite possible
that Queen Vic-
toria shied at it,
although, if that
estimable lady was
expected to taste
and like all the
fruits grown in her
wide dominions, it
was asking a good
deal of her. I
fancy most likings
for fruits are form-
ed in childhood,
when nearly all of
it tastes good, and
that in later life
the unfamiliar
makes little appeal.
When Macaulay
returned from
India he was asked
if he hadn’t found
the tropical fruits
gorgeous. He re-
plied that lie would
cheerfully swap
the whole lot for
a single pottle of
strawberries from
Covent Garden.
* =l=
“M eleager”:
Milas, the obscure
town in Asia Minor
at which Kings-
ford Smith made
his forced landing,
had once other
claims to fame. It
was noted in clas-
sic times for. its
honey, which rival-
led that of ITymet-
tus, and it was the
sad experience of
a shepherdess of
that hamlet, then
known as Miletus,
that gave rise to
the legend which is
enshrined in the
nursery rhyme of
“Little 80-peep.” Close by the once-nourish-
ing Greek colony runs the winding river
Meander, and that has supplied a word for
several languages. Finally, Thales, philoso-
pher, astronomer and one of the Seven Wise
Men of Greece, flourished at Miletus some
25 centuries ago.
* * * *
“L.W.”: Not long ago, when Victoria’s
Western District wheat was being loaded
at top pressure into overseas vessels at the
Geelong railway pier, a truck went over the
end into a few fathoms of water. The
department was notified and a diver sent
down to connect lifting-gear with the sub-
merged conveyance. He no sooner reached
bottom than he signalled to be pulled up
again, and, upon appearing on the surface,
asked which truck was required. There
were two there, but apparently nobody had
ever missed the other one.
* a* * *
“Verdant G.'’:
The right to say
what you dashed
well please isn't
regarded as a
sacred thing in all
universities. At the
Perth institution
the other day
Authority fell
heavily on a couple
of students who
were the editors of
a publication called
“Sruss.” These
advocates of free-
dom of writing
were rusticated for
a year—the first
instance of this
penalty being in-
flicted beside the
Swan; also the
guild of under-
graduates, though
it expressed
the utmost con-
trition, was fined
and spoken to sev-
erely. Had this
sort of thing
occurred at Syd-
ney, judging from
recent happenings,
the undergradu-
ate s, with the
assistance of one
or two members of
the Lang Govern-
ment, would pro-
bably have Jheld a
counter-meeting and censured the Senate;
they might indeed have been with difficulty
restrained from rusticating the Vice-Chan-
cellor.
!K * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: Despite “Bloggs”
(B. 7/10/’3l), plenty of instances could be
given to show that the meaner type of miser
loves to gloat upon the actual possession of
hoarded wealth. Not long ago the ragged
coat of a Hobart identity supposed to be
penniless was found to’ be lined with Com-
monwealth notes; and a presumed pauper
at Newtown (Sydney) had his wealth strap-
ped to his arms by rubber bands. Then
there was the case of a Paddington woman,
a regular recipient of doles from half a
dozen charities, who upon her death was
found to be worth f3OOO-odd. Nearly £BOO
of it was on her person, the rest being out
on mortgage ; like the Sydney fortune-teller-
waslier-woman who buried her money in the
back yard she suspected banks but was not
averse from real-estate investments. The
Paddington lady wore a special petticoat
ringed with pockets, in which she carried
about not only her hoarded money but her
SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
“Do your neighbors borrow much from you?”
“Borrow! Why, I feel more at home in their flats than I
do in my own.”
domestic supplies of tea and sugar, for fear
people might enter her shabby room and help
themselves. She was a walking bank anti
larder combined.
“Verri”: One point that shouldn’t be
missed by psychologists who are interested
in the riches people carry about with them
is that a vast number of women never move
abroad without their jewels. Hence comes
it that in numerous bag-snatching cases
the victim is reported as bewailing not
so much the loss of her money as
that of her two diamond rings, her
platinum wristlet watch and so forth.
The other day I watched a woman in
a big shop search her bag for a ticket she
had mislaid; long before she found it she had
piled the counter with at least £lOO worth
of valuable trifles. Most flats have dupli-
cate keys, and insurance policies have a
“forcible entry” protection in the case of
burglary that makes the tenant reluctant to
take a risk; the habit is partly attributable
to these facts. There’s much comfort to the
feminine mind in the thought that one’s valu-
ables are within grasp at all times. But
it’s a thing no man bothers about.
* * *
“Oran”: Ten years ago a Melbourne
woman divorced an entirely worthless hus-
band who had finally deserted her. Three
years later she married a Sydney man, who
recently bought a handsome suburban resi-
dence and began to make improvements in
the house and gardens. When a gardener-
chauffeur was advertised for a dozen appli-
cants turned up, and the lady of the house
went along to discover the views of the 12
on landscape gardening. She didn’t stay
long, as the third in the queue was her erst-
while husband. Il'e didn’t get the job.
=;= * >;•
“Pink Tape” : A gentleman of frugal mind
came into a Melbourne suburban court a
few days ago and had less luck than one so
ingenious deserved. It was this way. There
was a maintenance order out against him,
and his wife happened to' fall into gaol, as
any lady might. Now the question arose
whether during this interesting period when
she was kept by his Majesty she was en-
titled to be kept also by her husband. The
Law took a low and depraved view. The
gentleman had been ordered to maintain her,
and whether the King lent a hand had no-
thing whatever to do with the case. So any
lady who, while enjoying an order for main-
tenance, wins the Royal favor may in future
regard that as a bonus, in no way interrupt-
ing her regular pay.
ij! * *
“C. Coral”: Old gold-mining towns in
North Queensland which once counted their
population by thousands, and have seen
them dwindle to a few score, possess some
interesting relics. There are private houses
with a substantial strongroom in the centre,
indicating the days when banks were numer-
ous. Even more interesting exhibits are the
disused joss-houses which adorn the streets of
places like Croydon and Georgetown. Joss
still sits high, gleaming with gilt, in the
dusty temple, with all the usual accessories;
an aged custodian and two or three other
old Chinese are about the only ones who
look in upon him. The white ants will pro-
bably finish off the timber work of the struc-
tures before long, but souvenir-hunters are
looked upon with a baleful eye by the few
remaining Celestials.
OCTOBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now she’s in her stride, October, and the
flow’ring shrubs that robe her
but to scorn the sombre, sober winter-
time’s arboreal modes;
Now the surfers sun the nether portions of
their frames together,
And the batsmen paste the leather and
the poet fashions odes.
Solar influences focal render all creation
local,
Man and beast and bird, more vocal —it’s
a gift benignant Spring
Always brings in her thesaurus. Hear the
glad, exultant chorus
Re-arise in tones sonorous from the re-
arisen Ring!
Birds in suitable apparel raise anew their
twitfiring carol;
Round the bottle and the barrel boozy
voices louder rise;
And the lover’s pleading murmur, querying
when his own lie’ll term her,
Grows to fuller tones and firmer under-
neath October skies.
Politicians strain endurance with a noisier
assurance,
There’s a clamorous allurance wheresoe’er
are slogans pealed ;
And not even distance mellows the ingratiat-
ing bellows
Of the leather-throated fellows who are
out to lay the field.
She’s the harbinger of Summer, and he
takes fresh heart, the drummer,
And the iceman, who’s been dumber lately
than a busted drum ;
There’s a dash of extra savor in the oaths
that gangers favor,
And a broader, braver flavor in the argot
of the slum.
Birds from months of silence waking into
orisons are breaking,
And what sets the welkin shaking more
than anything I know
Is the tumult and the thunder from the
section which the dunder-
Headed punter thinks to plunder —the
vocif’rous Iky Mo.
N.S.w.
IFORD.


“Mudurup”: Vice-regal levees are mostly
dull affairs, but a venerable cleric, of unim-
peachable veracity, told me of one that kept
the community chuckling for weeks after-
A DISTINCTION WITH A DIFFERENCE.
“I can’t stand that fellow—he’s a silly flatterer!"
“Why, has he been telling you you’re pretty?”
“No—but he told me another girl was."
wards. It occurred in 1869, when Governor
Weld, full of dignity and importance, arrived
in Perth. Weld’s predecessors had been an
easy-going lot, but the new man was a
stickler for etiquette, and issued a ukase that
full-dress must be worn by the loyal subjects
Avho wished to attend Government House
functions. The announcement caused con-
sternation, for there were only seven
dress-suits in the capital, and the owners
were nearly all officials who were ex-
pected to be at the ceremony. Then some-
body had a bright idea. An unattached
swallow-tail and vest were obtained (from
the city’s lone pawnbroker), and, darkish
pants being plenty enough, it was arranged
that the first wearer, after shaking hands
with the Queen’s representative, should shed
his borrowed plumes behind a screen tor
the benefit of his successor. Everything wen.,
off fine, though Weld was a. little puzzled
at the occasional lengthy waits between pre-
sentations, possibly occasioned when fat men
were climbing laboriously into an unfamiliar
garment. The joke was enjoyed by everyone
except the Governor himself, whom it never
reached ; two or three tailors did a roaring
business in dress-suits before the next levee.
* * * *
“Teller”: Queer things happen in connec-
tion with money these days. There’s a lady
in Australia whose former American hus-
band undertook to send her £75 a quarter if
she would clear out. She was reported
“thrilled to pieces” early this month when
she found her £75 had mysteriously increased
to more than £ll5, exchange having worked
overtime on it. On the other hand, there s
an Australian pensioner living outside San
Francisco who will be shocked when he is
offered about £l9O (in dollars) for the £3OO
per half-year which lie bought 12 years ago
in Australia.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : The other day I was served with
a demand for £6 for “river improvements.’
The river is the Yarra, which is quite a mile
from my place of residence, but I have
always taken an interest in the operations
of the Board of Works, there. These con-
sisted in removing an immense number of
trees whose roots were holding up the banks
along which I occasionally walk. . The inten-
tion was to prevent the trees falling.into the
stream, so that the occasional canoeist could
safely paddle his bit of skirt up to Warran-
dyte; the result has been to cause the banks
to fall into the Yarra and silt up its bed.
In places the damage has been so bad that
the 15ft. which the Government reserves as
its property is now somewhere near. the
middle of the stream, and portions of private
owners’ grazing land are following it. What
should have been done, of course, was to lop
the tops off the trees, when the roots would
have been adequate to .hold the remaining
trunk, and the stream would soon have re-
gained the bushy beauty it used to have, but
the thick-headed obstinacy of bureaucracy is
not an easy thing to shake.
# * * #
“5.0.5.”: The N.S.W. Government Statis-
tician has revealed that “last year the num-
ber of deaths per 1000 vehicles registered
was approximately twice as great for motor-
cycles as for other motor vehicles.” How
absurd to make a fuss about issuing revol-
ver licenses and give any moron the right
to flourish a motor-bike! As a matter of
fact a motor-bike can be as dangerous in the
wrong hands as an 18-pounder, which no
private citizen is allowed to let off in a
civilised country. I contend that prospec-
tive bikists should be examined for mental
and physical fitness and character, in the
same way as masters of deep-sea ships, and
that one act of carelessness or incompetence
should cost the culprit his ticket. The death-
rate from street accidents, which is par-
ticularly high among children, would come
climbing down if this system were intro-
duced, and nothing less drastic is going to.
have any effect.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: I went over Vaucluse House
last week, after a lapse of 30 years, and I’ll
never believe in historical monuments again.
When I first saw the place it looked what
it was in Wentworth’s day—a colonial home
of the early-Victorian era. It was out of
repair, and white-ant eaten, but you could
imagine an unpretentious Australian family
living in it. Since then a misguided Gov-
ernment has let a herd of “period” house-
decorators loose inside, and had the grounds
spruced up by one of those landscape artists
with cement-path minds who lay out public
gardens. The general effect is that produced
by old' Dan, from Back-o’-beyond, in new
ON THE CONTRARY.
“What’s the matter? You look cut up.”
“Well, I’m not. I’m cut down.”
city clothes that don’t fit him. The bed-
rooms and so-called reception-rooms are the
worst The bedrooms have been faked up
in the Hampton Court style, with high four-
posters, draped with gaudy valances instead
of honest mosquito curtains; and the inspira-
tion of the former drawing-room or parlor
and “music-room” (with spinet) seems to
be Versailles. Altogether a thoroughly un-
convincing job.
* # # #
“Chevroford”: Arboriculturists in Mel-
bourne have been puzzling their heads over
damage done to the trees in Mugs-alley, an
avenue off Flinders-street, which is used by
both police and private instructors for motor-
driving tests. The damage was so consis-
tent that some experts even imagined it was
a new disease. The mystery was solved
when a lady who had just obtained her
license explained in the press, that part of
her training consisted in being asked to
see how close she could go to a tree.
* * * *
“H.S.”: Farmers, traditionally the most
persistent growlers and strongest opponents
of direct action in every community, are
waking up. Consider some recent English
cables: —
Two hundred angry East Kent farmers shouted
applause when one of them poured a bucket of mud
over the head of the auctioneer during a sale at
Canterbury to recover arrears of tithe rent.
A sale at Hastings was wrecked. when farmers
succeeded in stampeding bullocks which were being
auctioned.
Cows were sold for 6s. each and horses for lus.
6d. at a sale at Stoke-by-Clare, Suffolk. The sale
followed an order for distress for tithes, and was
attended by 400 farmers.
The oppressed copyholders of the sixteenth
century and the victims of the Enclosure
laws of the seventeenth and eighteenth cen-
turies hardly delivered one effective kick
among them. Australia is coming into line,
too:
Nearly 200 farmers, within a radius of 25 miles,
gathered at a farm 19 miles from Coolamon (N.S.W.)
and prevented a forced sale under a writ of fien-
facias.
One of the demonstrators addressed the
gathering afterwards: —
The man on the land would have to be protected.
They could expect no consideration from a Govern-
ment with only city interests. They would have to
protect themselves. It was certain that city interests
had no conception of the plight of wheat farmers.
Education is responsible. The old-time far-
mer had a peasant’s mind, and coulctn t
organise or combine. Modern farmers are
as mentally alert as city-dwellers. iney
have seen what lawyers, doctors, artisans
and manual workers have done for them-
selves by unionising. I’ll he surprised if the
A.W.U. isn’t confronted by an A.F.U. inside
five years.
* * * *
“Nore”: The “regrettable incidents” in
the Royal Navy which followed the cuts m
pay seem to have been exaggerated, for it
is announced that the Atlantic .Fleet exer-
cises which were cancelled owing to the
“strike” are to be held forthwith. Neverthe-
less many a retired veteran of the old school
would probably have died from apoplexy on
his own quarter-deck if such a thing had
happened in his time. Some of these old
boys were the limit, and must have been
found very trying by their subordinates of
all ranks. One C. in C. in the Mediter-
ranean always referred to himself in the
third person, and to other people as “it.”
Once he ordered a midshipman to buy a new
dirk because “the one it has is dirty.”
“Please, sir,” blurted the snotty, “I’m about
to be promoted to sub-lieutenant and will
replace this dirk with a sword.” There was
a fearful silence for a moment. Then came
the reply: “It must not bandy words with
the 0. in C.” And the Presence moved on.
$ ❖ ❖ #
“Si Anu”: Malaya is to have the first
national park in Asia, if you exclude the
regal hunting demesne of Kublai Khan de-
scribed by Marco Polo. It is an area of
magnificent mountain, jungle and river coun-
try between the native States of Pahang,
Kelantan and Trengganu, nearly 900,000
acres in extent. In it are found practically
all the important fauna of the Malay Pen-
insula except rhinoceros sondaicus. Ele-
phant, tiger, the sambhur deer and the sela-
dang, a particularly wild bull which has pro-
vided innumerable hunters’ stories, will soon
become as plentiful as kangaroos and native
bears do in an Australian sanctuary. . It
was because they were on the way to extinc-
tion owing to the spread of rubber cultiva-
tion that the project was mooted. The indi-
genous inhabitants are Sakais and Semangs,
a Negrito race of such a primitive type that
it evacuates its villages whenever a death
occurs and builds a fresh one elsewhere.
* * * *
“A.C.”: “Ngaio’s” comments on Alpine
climbing in M.L. (B. 16/9/’3l) invite cor-
rection. No one, so far as I know, .has
been ass enough to go up Mt. Cook in a
belltopper and frock-coat. Also, Mrs.
Thompson was not over 70 years old when
she made her ascent, nor was her son with
her; she was taken np Cook by Conrad Kam.
the great Austrian guide. There is. no pos-
sibility of prohibiting casual mountain-climb-
ing or imposing a test on anyone s * wind
or limbs,” but legislation is being brought
down to ensure that men who. are employed
as guides above the snow T -line shall be
licensed as qualified for that work.
jj. # #
“Pila”: The steel die that was used to
embo'ss those first N.S.W. postage stamps
on paper (B. 30/9/’3l) was subsequently
employed as a seal for mailbags in the
Sydney G.P.O. dispatch-room. One would
have expected such a relic to be carefully pre-
served, but an inquiry I once made to the
department on tho subject merely, elicited
that “it is not now available, having been
destroyed.” The embossed-stamp scheme lias
often been wrongly credited to Rowland
Hill; it was James Raymond, Sydneys first
postmaster, who actually introduced it. This
was some years before the first English
adhesive stamp appeared in 1840.
“Esters”: A friend in America forwards
a press clipping which illustrates the deter-
mination of the Yank to get hold of some-
thing with a kick in it. An enterprising
person recently took New York by storm
with a store well stocked with “wine bricks.
These bricks are sold as port, sherry, claret
flavorings, etc., and the saleswomen demon-
strate to their customers the way to use
them. Each buyer is told to immerse the brick
in a gallon of water, when the drink may be
consumed at once. “But,” goes on the instruc-
tion, with gentle guile, “don’t put the liquid
away in a cupboard for 21 days, because then
it will turn into wine; don’t stop the bottle
with this patent siphon cork, for that is
necessary only to ensure fermentation,
don’t put the siphon tube m a. glass or
water, for that hastens fermentation; don t
shake the bottle once a day, for that makes
the liquor ‘work.’ ” Of course the store is
jambed like a Whiddon lottery, but all the
prohibition officials can do .at present i*
to stand about in the hustling crowd and
make gibbering noises.
* *
“P.R.”: Touching these man-traps (B.
16/9/’3l)', one of them was forced on. my
attention whilst our battery was campea m
Suffolk (Eng.) during the war. -The fear-
some-looking contrivance, was. suspended like
a signboard outside an inn in the tiny vij
lage of Ixworth. The Oldest Inhabitant sol-
emnly assured me over a beer that such
traps were used to catch poachers when he
was a youngster, and judging from the size
of the gruesome relic I saw no reason to
disbelieve him.
A RE-FOUGHT BATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Alter a Rugby League football match, marked by
frequent brawls, between Redfern and South Sydney,
the defeated team invited the victors to a smoke
concert in Crown-street, and during the evening tno
fights that had been unfinished in the afternoon
were concluded. As a result, the ambulance had a
busy time, and nine men were taken to hospitals
for treatment.” — “S. M. Herald
Wild was the game and singularly willing;
Into each other on the field they tore ;
Some bones were broke and there was tre-
quent spilling
Of crackling blasphemy and crimson gore.
Natliless the vanquished, from the tray
Contrived a plan to make it understood
(Or so it seemed) that they could take a
beating
As dinkum sportsmen should.
A pleasant gesture! Where the glasses
And mellow ale foams in the pewter pot
They’d meet, with all the feuds of mimic
battle .... , . .
(Though none too “mimic” m this case)
forgot.
It warms the heart to think of whilom foe-
men , „ . , ,
In friendly converse o’er the festive board,
Lauding opponents for the service yeoman
They did when goals were scored.
They came, those victors to the banquet
bidden,
Or so at least I venture to surmise.
All trace of triumph chivalrously hidden,
And beaming fellowship in blackened eyes.
They came, where hospitable impulse
beckoned, . . ~
To play the game again with those they u
whacked, .
To fight in fancy. They could scarce have
reckoned
They’d have to fight in fact.
They came, ’tis probable, anticipating
That there’d be sandwiches and saveloys
And bottled beer and fat cigars awaiting,
And cheery speeches and harmonious
noise.
But visions Of a glad sliivoo diminished
Soon as the visitors became aware
That very little saving “scraps, unfinished,
Was on the bill o’ fare.
A second time they took their ample share of
The goods that pugs deliver in the ring.
Well, there’s a proverb warns you to beware
of
The Greeks, especially when gifts they
bring. . , .
And I imagine it’s a question whether
Its soundness will in future be denied
By gents, who boot o’er Redfern turf the
leather
Upon the winning side.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


WEAR TOGARDS
AND DOUBLE THE LIFE OF
YOUR SOCKS!
Stocking protectors that fit
snugly over the forepart of the
bare foot underneath the stock-
ing. Positively prevent socks
from wearing through; will
not curl or irritate. Made of
lisle. Washable sanitary
durable. State size with
order. Price, per pair,
1/6
Send your order to Desk S.B.
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Toowoomba, Longreach and 1 Townsville.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary; R. V. BOOTH.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
ď
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON,
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Monash always insisted that lie was a
citizen first; he rarely appeared in uniform
once the war was over. When the Macca-
bean Hall was opened in Sydney—a great
event in the Jewish community—the A.I.F.
commander, who made the trip from Mel-
bourne especially to perform the ceremony,
was in civilian garb. Even at returned-
soldier functions he remained the plain citi-
zen who had fought; it took a definitely mili-
tary occasion to get him to drag his uniform
into the light.
The leader of Australia’s armies had some
grim alternatives presented to him in
France, but none more personal than
those offered by the doctors a couple of
months ago. Recurrent heart attacks left
no doubt as to what the end would be. H'e
could either continue to lead an active life,
in which case, they said, he would probably
drop _ dead in the street; or he could take
to his bed, in which case the inefficient
action of the heart would allow the blood
to accumulate in his lungs and pneumonia
was bound to supervene. The old soldier
selected the first alternative until weakness
left him without a choice.
Monash carried
one Australian
university degree
which he had en-
tirely to himself.
As a youngster he
studied at Mel-
bourne University,
and graduated in
Engineering as well
as in Arts and
Law. After the
Great War he sub-
mitted Jiis “Aus-
tralian Victories in
France” as a thesis
on the subject of
engine* ring as
applied to modern
war; and, being
examined by the
Professors of Engi-
neering of Mel-
bourne, Sydney and
Adelaide, it was
accepted as quali-
fying Monash for
the degree of
Doctor of Engineer-
ing. No other had
ever qualified for
it in Australia.
But as already he
had degrees in Arts
(8.A.) and Laws
General MONASH.
(D.C.L. and LL.D.), the honor didn’t visibly
fluster him.
“Nakhoda”: John Monash was a very
simple man with a great sense of fun. When
he returned from the war he got a
reception at the pier, at Prahran, at South
Melbourne and at the Town Hall. Then
he went home. At 2 p.m. he was back in
the city in civilian clothes, and the first
person he visited was an old friend employed
in Melbourne’s most famous jeweller’s shop.
Whilst yarning he saw a member of the
University council with whom he had sat
before the war. He went across and held
out his hand. “Hello,” said his former col-
league ; “haven’t .seen you about for a long
time. Where have you been?” “Over the
other side,” replied the General. “Have a
good trip?” said the University eminentis-
simo. “Splendid,” said Monash. Then
the University councillor drifted absent-
mindedly out of the shop, leaving Monash
grinning with delight at this example of
the impermanency of fame. A quarter of
an hour later an agitated professor returned
to the shop and inquired if the gentleman
he had been speaking with was the G.O.C.
of the A.I.F.
The easting of an informal vote by a
councillor lost Liston, the liquor-trades stal-
wart, the Melbourne mayoralty, and for the
next year the
bunny skins
will be worn
by Gengoult
(p r onounced
something like
“S jon goo”)
Smith. Th e
new Lud
Mayor is
about the
best-1 ooking
surgeon in
Collin s-street.
He graduated
from Me 1-
bourne Gram-
ma r through
Ormond Col-
lege and Edin-
burgh Univer-
sity. Being in
England when
the war clouds
were lowering*
lie volunteered
before Britain
declared war,
and served
with the
Drag o o n
Guards as a
lieutenant. He
is at present
colonel com-
manding the
Brighton
Rifle s. His
father, Dr. L.
DR. H. GENGOULT
SMITH, the new Lud
Mayor of Melbourne.
L. Smith, was one of the first men to take
an active part in the Victorian wine indus-
try and lived to be the “Father” of a Vie.
Parliament.
Great generals cast their shadows before.
When lan Hamilton was in this country in
1912 he attended a sham fight at Healesville
(Vic.). Subsequently he reported to the
British and Commonwealth Governments
that the finest soldier he had come across in
Australia was Major John Monash.
Tom Clarke, doyen of Westralian pearl-
sliellers, is dead in Broome at 69. The gold-
ear-ringed old man was a picturesque figure
and he liked to live up to it. He was the
first white shelter to sail out of Broome, and
got his initial taste of fame when he dis-
covered the famous Southern Cross pearl •
it comprised several pearls joined in the
form of an irregular cross —in Sharks Bay.
The cross, which was more valuable as a
curio than intrinsically, was sold by Clarke
for a ten-pound note. It is now said to be
in the possession of the Pope. Tough as they
make them, the old man broke his neck
some years ago by falling from a cart, but
made a good recovery, though he finished
his term with a crooked neck.
Naomi Quintal, who died at Norfolk
Island, aged 93, was the last of the Rev.
George Hunn Nobbs family. The Rev.
George was a grandson of one of the
Bounty mutineers, and he married Sarah
Christian, grand-daugliter of the original
Fletcher Christian. Naomi’s husband, the
late Caleb Quintal, traced his descent back
to able-seaman Quintal, another of the muti-
neers. A son of the Quintal couple did his
bit in the Great War.
A good Anglo-Australian went west last
week when Arthur Moore, superintendent of
works at the Longreach (Q.) oil bore, was
killed by an explosion. Moore came to
Queensland as a lad from Dorset, and for
years was engaged in artesian-well boring
in different parts of the State. He served
during the war with the A.F.C. Later,
after some oil-boring experiences in Mexico, he
returned to Queensland, was placed in
charge of the Government oil bore at Roma,
and struck the gas flow from which the first
oil produced in Queensland was condensed.
He left again to follow the oil trail in
America, Victoria and Maoriland. It was
while he was preparing a torpedo to “shoot”
the Longreach bore that he met his death.
Gordon Craig, of Sydney, was more than
a great surgeon. It was left for his will
to disclose that the College of Surgeons, of
which he was a founder, will benefit from if
to the extent of £40,000, to be employed in re-
search and the assistance of young graduates
of promise. Before his death the doctor
had purchased Binnaway station, but it
was no ordinary venture; his intention was
to run it as a contribution to the study of
the sheepman’s problems, particularly the
break in wool.
John Michael Drew, who started life as a
telegraphist and after a spell of school-
mastering turned to journalism, is the
doyen of Westralian Labor Parliamen-
tarians, though he never actually signed the
Labor pledge until 1911. But Drew was an
M.L.C. nearly a year before the original
Labor party of six arrived in the Assembly
in 1901, and he was a member of the first
Labor (Cabinet of 1904, as a trusted ally,
before Phil Collier, the present leader, had
entered Parliament. He lias been in every
Labor Ministry since, although he lost his
seat and didn’t regain it for six years during
the post-war period. One of his colleagues
in 1904-05 was Angwin, now Agent-General;
another was W. D. Johnson, who is still in
the Assembly; a third was Senator Paddy
Lynch.
The new president of S.A. Returned
Soldiers’ League, succeeding McCann, is
Ilarry Thomson, of the 10th and 50th. He
has an unusually distinguished career —St.
Peter’s School, Adelaide ’Varsity, Oxford
(as Rhodes scholar), major and M.C. in the
war. back in Adelaide as head of the old
Varley and Evan firm, member of the Uni-
versity Council and K.C.
E. J. Hillman, dead in Sydney at 06, was
for many years one of the best-known mer-
chant skippers in the Westeni Pacific, where
he was for a quarter of a century in Burns-
Pliilp ships. English born, lie first saw
Australia as an apprentice on the famous
Australia as an aprentice in the famous
White Star clipper Thermopylae. His last
ship was the Malabar, wrecked at Long Bay
some months after he had given up the com-
mand to go to Britain and bring out the
new 8.-P. liner, the Macdhui. Illness pre-
vented him carrying on in command of the
new ship, and he did not return to the sea.
Henry Schwieger, manager of Vic. Royal
Agricultural Society, who became seriously
ill on the eve of the opening of the big Show
in Melbourne a month ago, passed out last
week. Beginning as a country State school-
teacher, Schwieger developed and displayed
organising abilities which drew the atten-
tion of the R.A.S. chiefs, and there he
found his real vocation. The closing of the
Primary Producers’ Bank, of which he was
chairman of directors, might be said to have
worried him into the grave.
Phil Goatcher, upon whom the curtain
has fallen at Perth, was a scene-painter of
credit and renown. He was American-born,
but learned his trade in England, and learned
it .so effectively that the D’Oyley Carte
opera companies were among those for whom
he plied his brush. He came to Melbourne
nearly 40 years ago and did good work for
J. C. Williamson; when he settled in the
West early this century his name had become
a household one in the theatrical world. As
a side-line the veteran did a bit of wheat-
growing in his later years; he was 79 at the
close.
Justice K. W. Street, son of the N.S.W.
Chief Justice, who has been raised to the
Supreme Court Bench following on the
statutory retirement of Justice Ferguson,
was paying his first visit to England when
the war began. He joined up with a British
infantry regiment, but his health failed, and
he returned to Australia. He had already
been called to the N.S.W. Bar, after a credit-
able scholastic and athletic career at Sydney
’Varsity, and he specialised in court-
martial work as a member of the H.Q.
staff till the Armistice. His career at the
Outer Bar was solid without being brilliant.
Justice KENNETH STREET.
He was put on the Industrial Commission by
the Bavin Government; and it has been said
that his latest appointment was based as much
on Mr. Lang’s desire to hamstring the Com-
mission as on merit; but every member of
the Bar recognises that he should make a
very sound Judge. He is a lawyer, and he
has the temperament. He is the youngest
Supreme Court Judge in N. S. Wales his-
tory, and the only one that has had a father
for a colleague.
That brilliant rolling-stone L. G. Melville
continues to gather moss. After a dis-
tinguished career at Sydney ’Varsity, he be-
came Public Actuary for S.A. Before he
was 30 he was tfie first Professor of Eco-
nomics at Adelaide. Last March he was
lent to the Commonwealth Bank as adviser,
and now he has resigned the professorship
to devote himself to the bank.
W. J. Gall has been appointed chairman
of the Royal Commission to readjust the
boundaries of the Queensland electorates.
Queensland-born, he has put in 46 of his
64 years in the Bananaland public service,
most of the time in the Home Department,
of which he has been Under-Secretary since
1933, while he also holds the job of Comp-
troller of Prisons and Protector of Abori-
gines. Possibly he faced his stillest task
when, at the end of the S’African War, he
W. J. GALL, of Queensland.
was seconded from his department to take
charge of the paying off of the many Queens-
landers who had served as Imperial soldiers
in the Bnslimen contingents. It was a long
and tangled business, but Gall’s unfailing
tact and patience cleared everything up
eventually. He has no known vices except
fishing. lan Gall, The Bulletin artist who
made the drawing, is a son.
The enterprising Thring, who is backing
with hard cash the first serious attempt to
launch the Australian talkie, is a man who
has made a fortune out of showing American
movies. lie has the virtue of patience, and
his ponderous figure seems the embodiment
of it. Previous producers looked at both
sides of every bit of celluloid before they
wasted it. When 1000 feet of film has been
expended, and the power, the carpentry, the
supers, and other incidentals have helped
to blew the best part of £250, and the result
turns out abortive, Thring merely says:
“Well, we’ll have to have another go at
it.” When most men make a quarter of a
million they spend it on buying paintings
they don’t understand and statues that pri-
vately shock them. It would be hard to find
a more amusing or exciting way of spending
a fortune than Thring has chosen. And he
has an even chance of making another out
of it.
The raid on Jerilderie by the Kelly gang
was recalled the other day by the death of
H. Tiffen. It was he to whom the bush-
rangers handed their horses when they dis-
mounted at the Royal Mail Hotel, but it
was not until Steve Hart invited him to
“come inside” that the ostler realised all was
not as it should be. Being a wise youth he
kept in good spirits. Ned Kelly was so
struck with his composure that, after the
bank had been looted, he paid Tiffen the
compliment of asking him to join the gang.
Gerald Carr-Boyd, who died last week in
Brisbane, at 70, was for many years in the
State Lands Department, and as Registrar
of the Settlement branch was a recognised
authority on the State’s land laws. In 1914
he was specially retained by the Common-
wealth Government to draft measures relat-
ing to land in the Northern Territory. In
his spare time he dabbled not unsuccessfully
in literature and art.
Lord Trenchard, Air Chief Marshal, suc-
ceeds Lord Byng as London’s Commissioner
of Police, which suggests that a distinguished
military career is coming to be regarded as
a sine qua non for the headship of a force
which, for all its high record, has come
under the harrow of criticism for some years
past. Byng, who retires at 69, was a great
soldier who was specially thanked by Par-
liament and voted £30,000 for his war ser-
vices, becoming Governor-General of Canada
later. Trenchard’s present rank corresponds
to that of general or admiral; he began his
military service in the Boer War before
aerial warfare had been heard of ; in the
Great War he rapidly rose to the highest
command in the new arm, and was rewarded
in 1918 with a baronetcy and a grant of
£lO,OOO. He is 58.
MONASH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His were the laurels envy might not fray.
How few there are within the halls of
Fame
To whom all men unstinted tribute pay,
Nor any grudge acclaim!
Duty his watchword, till his eyes were dim
His spirit would not flag, hi.s service cease.
War had her victories supreme for him,
Aye, and her triumphs Peace.
Soldier and scholar, never call or plea
lie asked or heard beyond his country’s
need.
In battle’s roar or hum of industry
Leader of men indeed.
Strong, ever for the weak his foremost
thought,
A stay to hearten, and a star to guide;
Selfless, whose showered honors came un-
sought,
Prideless, a nation’s pride.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
Tile SI.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 12 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
General Secretary.
đ
Buy Standardised Belting
There’s a Pioneer Leather Belt to suit
every type of drive.
When you specify Pioneer Leather Belting you are
sure to get dependability, plus extra years of service.
Every Pioneer Leather Belt is made to a. definite
standard of thickness from the best quality belt
leather, and carries our replacement guarantee should
defects in quality of material or workmanship develop.
If you have a belting problem, our experts will
advise you, without obligation.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
MANUFACTURED BY
J. C. LUDOWICI &
LIMITED
SON
117 York Street, Sydney, and 20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: HOEY FRY. LTD., 170, EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: J. McKELL & SONS, 129 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: MR. HORACE SUMMERS, 9-11 HOWARD STREET, PERTH.
TASMANIA • CHAS DAVIS, LTD., 60 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART.
NEW ZEALAND: G W. ARNOLD, LTD., A.M.P. CHAMBERS, WELLINGTON.
EXPLOSIVES
all kinds stocked.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary-
goods.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
j.O-12 Parramatta Road,
Camper down, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney).
( Dividends \
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref.
July, Profit. G p.c. 7i p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
275,765
1920. .101,240 9000 10 p.e. = 40,980 '227,034
Surplus from sale of property, £9OOO .. 236,034
Provision for depreciation of stock, £60,000 176,034
1921.. 3,984 9000 8,573 7Ap.c.= 37,090 125,355
1922.. 85,262 9000 8,485 10 „ „ 49,453 143,679
1923.. 90,107 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,453 166,760
1924.. 95,776 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,453 195,610
1925.. 97,989 9000 8,573 10 ~ „ 49,876 226,050
1926. 9000 9,911 10 „ ~50,000 261,928
Premiums on shares, £25,000 .. .. 286,928
1927. .106,585 9000 13,330 10 p.c. = 52,764 318,719
1928.. 98,136 9000 18,403 10 „ ~ 59,537 329,915
1929. .118,332 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 360,497
1930.. 73,742 9000 18,750 7 „ ~42,000 364,489
1931.. 49,973 9000 18,750 4 „ „ 24,000 362,712
The function of the retailer is that of buying
agent for the community he serves. His
success or otherwise depends largely upon
whether he buys the right type of goods
at the right price. Judged on this basis,
David Jones appears to be fully alive to the
new trading problems.
Last year a lighter and more discriminating
demand, and the inevitable inflation of costs,
due to increased tariff, exchange, primage
and sales and other taxation charges, re-
duced turnover and narrowed the margin of
profit. Also, a steady fall in prices and
capricious fashion added greatly to the diffi-
culties. So’, after providing for depreciation,
bad debts and . taxation, there was a reces-
sion of £23,769 in the net result, a total
slip of £68,359 in the last,two years. Allow-
ing fop the two lots of pref. divs. (together
£27,750), enough remained to show 3.7 p.c.
on the £600,000 of o’rd. capital as against
7.6. 15.1, 11.8, 16, 17.1 and 16.1 p.c. back
to 1925 ; so another three points were knocked
off the div., reducing it to 4 p.c., and, visibly,
reserves were tapped for £1777 to pay it.
It used to be a steady 10 p.c. proposition.
But earnings in the distributing trades de-
pend largely upon incomes in the primary
and secondary industries, which are now
sorely tried. Certainly the fall in sterling
put a little stiffening into prices for our
staples, but until costs generally can be
further reduced, and some relief got from
the burden of taxation, direct and indirect,
trade will remain difficult and profits slender
and hard to win. It is doubtful, therefore,
to what extent early improvement on last
year’s figures can be looked for, though a
little help should be got from reduction
of interest, especially on mortgages, and if
prices steady the stocks item should become
less troublesome.
In the circumstances a sound policy is
to reduce tlie outside debt by working down
stocks, etc., and increasing their rate of
turnover. The next comparison of balance-
sheet figures suggests that this is what has
been aimed at: —
1920. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £559,804 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Deposits .. . . 14,369 43,226 14,604
Overdraft . . . . 287,259 49,248
Sundry creditors . . 121,620 148,904 159,217
Mortgages, etc. . . 203,585 475,480 452,475
Total liabilities. . £626,833 £716,858 £626,296
Fixed assets . . 520,250 1,317,632 1,296,530
Stocks .. . . 669,308 533,664 459,305
Book debts . . 199,632 252,893 221,643
Investments, cash, etc. 49,470 9,033 37,404
Thus the reduction in stocks was £74,359 —
it may have been due mainly to lower prices
—-and in debtors’ balances £31,250. Together
with an increase of £10,313 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors and a drop of
£21,102 in the book value of fixed assets,
this enabled £28.622 of deposits to be repaid,
£23.005 to he snipped off mortgages, etc., and
cash, etc., to he strengthened by £28,371.
So the more or less liquid surplus (£92,056,
including stocks) was £14,324 stronger than
at the previous balance. Though goodwill
widened on transfer from the old premises
in George-street to the new 11-storeyed build-
ing opposite St. James city railway station,
fixed assets represented 64.3 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total at June 30 as against
45.5 p.c. five years earlier; obviously a very
lively turnover is needed to ensure satis-
factory results.
At 12s. the ords. return 6.7 p.c. on a 4
p.c. div. basis. The backing is 325. Id. in
net tangibles. There are 150,000 first 6 p.c.
and 250,000 second 71 p.c. cum. prefs. They
are priced at 15s. and 16s. 6d. respectively;
at which figures the return is 6.2 p.c. and
7 p.c., after allowing for the statutory 111
p.c. cut. The net tangible cover is £9 Is. bd.,
firsts; £4 9s. Sd., seconds.
Colonial Gas Association
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total serves, serves.
1926.. 36,*438 S p.c. 9 p.c. = 33,289 3149 43,005
1927.. 52,871 8 „ 9 „ „ 47_,604 0217 48,2^2
Share premiums, £14,875 .. • • >
1928.. 62,300 8 p.c. 9 p.c. = 55,806 6494 69,091
1929.. 74,537 8 „ 9 „ „ 73,501 ) _ 6 3,433
Written off, £7194 .. • • )
1930.. 77,264 8 p.c. Btp.c.= 72,269 \ _ 69> e20
Written olt, £BBOB .. •• >
1931.. 67,588 8 p.c. 6*p.c.= 64,254 1 g 79 e 0,499
Written off, £2455 •• • • 3
This co. and its subsidiaries control a chain
of about 30 gasworks stretching trom Albany
in Westralia to Townsville m Queensland,
and activities have been extended to indus-
trial enterprises connected with the manu-
facture and sale of ammonia, bitumen, dis-
infectants, etc., as well, feince headquarters
were transferred from London to Melbourne
in 1924. paid capital has jumped trom
£286,879 to £920,531, and £312,900 has been
added to the debenture debt, raising it to
£439,500 at June 30.
Savings in costs followed purchase ot the
various gas undertakings, and a steady 9 p.c.
div. kept the ords. at a substantial premium
on the market. Then, following the hold-up
at Maitland, the price charged for gas had
to be raised to help the co. bear the extra bur-
den, and the div. was dropped to 8 p.c. tor ' the
six months to the close of accounts in
But the increase has been remitted, and
further cuts in the price made. Still, con-
sumption has been curtailed, due to tne
slackness in industry and spread of unem-
ployment. Thus there was a contraction of
£41410 in last year’s revenue (£366,00 i)
gas sales (£236 259) slipped £32,615; dm
and returns from residuals (together
£70,298) were £8795 lighter. This was
largely offset by savings of £31,<05 net in
outgoings (£23B,969)—there was a drop ot
£40.021 in coal, maintenance, charges, etc.
(£195,472), but interest and taxes (£43,497 )
made off with an extra £8286, due mainly to
the super-tax on divs. from the subsidiaries.
After striking off £2455, a remnant of the
coal trouble, and paying the pref. div., there
was little more than, enough to give the ords.
p.c.; the final was at the rate ot 6 p.c.
P 'Prospects of an early recovery in earnings
are not encouraging; but the co. has applied
to the Court for a 10 p.c. cut in wages.
However, legislative control of the price ot
gas to the consumer and of divs., etc., is pend-
ing in Victoria; so the market prices the ords.
at 17s. 6d. os against 265. two years ago. The
return at 17s. 6d. is 6.8 p.c. on a 6 p-c. div.
basis. At 235. the prefs.—there are 296,144
of them —yield 6.9 p.c., so long as the fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. is not interfered with.
The next table illustrates the recent
growth of the business and bow it has been
financed: —•
1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £497,025 £905,482 £920,531
Debentures .. .. 138,600 439,410 439,500
Sundry creditors .. 73,072 66,516 53,001
Land, plant, etc. .. 093,563 956.520 965,716
Shares other cos. .. 391,0.>8 326,818
Advances other COS . • ■—■ 139,700 !4U,oq
Advances other • • 3 46,847 33j446
Rook debt; :: ..
Cash, investments, etc... 33,825 51,680
The floating debt is well covered. The de-
bentures, which mature at various dates to
the end of 1940, are costing the co. 64 p.c.
on the average. The visible allowance for
depreciation was £10,579. last year; much
depends upon whether this and expenditure
on maintenance, etc., prove to be enough to
cover actual loss through wear and tear, etc.
Murdoch’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
Net > Dividends . Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1929.. 7} p.c. 10 p.c. = 54,941 12,577 288,887
1 non 43 101 71 .. 5 „ „ 4b,086 291,852
19311 3§ „ NR 13,140 294,374
When this co. took over Murdoch’s mercery
and tailoring business, including a subsi-
diarv Murdoch’s Industries, Ltd., about
three’years ago, it put out £200,000 of fresh
scrip, partly to provide for further expan-
sion of the undertaking. Thus paid capital
became £719,406 in 350,422 71 p.c cum.
prefs. 366,631 ords. and H. 764 employees
shares (these last paid to £2353). .Combined
nrofits of the old businesses averaged £99,649
for the five years to. July 31, 1928. But con-
ditions changed rapidly and gross profits fell
from £272,791 in 1929 to for the
last term, when the slip was £81,006. Exes.
(£149 626, including provision for taxation)
were got back £47,553. but the £10,618 netted
was not enough to give the prefs. half a
meal so no final div. was paid. Goodwill
figures at £296.065, and the amount of ord.
capital unrepresented by tangible assets at
July 31 was £294.374. ..
Further, profitable employment for all the
fresh capital could not be found m the busi-
ness, and there is no immediate prospect ot
this surplus being needed —£84,533 was held
in cash and Commonwealth bonds when the
books last closed. So 4s. of each 20s. pref
share (=£70,085) is to be returned in cash;
then the scrip will be consolidated into pound
shares (280,340), and paid capital will be-
come £649,324, with a further £9411 at call
on the staff shares. This will lighten the
pref. dividend charge by £5256, leaving it
at £16,294 p.a., or a wink under 6 p.e. after
allowing for the statutory p.c. cut. lhat
ought to be easy enough under settled condi-
tions ; but it is difficult to say how the ords.
will fare. . ,
Last year falling prices made stocks
troublesome. Still, a reduction of £91,743 *n
their book value enabled £63,470 to be wiped
off the amount coming to sundry creditors: —
1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital • • .. £619,400 £719,406 £719,406
Sundry creditors .. 100,426 96,262 02,792
Freeholds .. • • 71,051 71,051 71,051
Plant .. •• 31,169 57,412 54,331
Shares other cos. .. 91,422 92,784 93,914
Stocks .. •• 193,990 234,558 142,815
Book debts .. .. 18,537 21,171 11,181
Cash, etc. .. •• 79.717 81,902 84,033
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£205,737, including stocks) was £3s,tri-
lighter than at the previous balance;
it will be further reduced by the return or
capital. Shareholdings consist mainly ot
scrip in Murdoch’s Industries, over whose
figures the curtain is kept drawn.
On the market the prefs. are offered at
155.; the return at that price is 8 p.c. on
a net 6 p.c. div. basis, and there is six
months’ div. accrued. Subject to intangibles
in the subsidiary, the backing is 255. 4d. in
net tangibles, after allowing for return of
capital. The ords. are not listed.
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
1920.. 11,974 7 p.c. = 8,004 3,970 25,276
Written off, .. • • •• 970
Citv & Suburban Co.’s reserves, £22,090 46,060
1921.. 1.6,811 8 p.e. = 12,769 4,042 '50,102
1922.. 22,913 8„ ~ 16,956 5,957 66,059
Share premium, £1093 .. _ • • 57,10^
1923 23 068 8 p.c. = 17,231 5,837 62,989
{III'.’. 31 455 10 „ „ 25,483 5,972 68,961
1925 38 342 9„ „ 25,607 12,735 81,696
19V6 36 230 9 27,000 9,230 90,926
1927". 44,950 10 33 492 11,458 102,384
1928 48 214 10 35,974 12,240 114,624
1929!'. 47,720 10 ” ” 39,909 7,811 122,435
1930 49 737 10 „ „ 40,000 9,737 132,172
1931:: 35,383 7„ „ 28,000 )
Contingency reserve, £3OOO )
The sudden change in financial conditions,
arbitrary reduction of interest and heavy in-
creases in taxation, especially on income
from property, have struck these building
banks their hardest blow since the crisis
of 38 years ago. Lighter payrolls and the
growth of unemployment are making it
difficult for many borrowers to keep up in-
stalments of both principal and interest,
while the fall in values and more or less
frozen condition of real estate have com-
plicated the position.
However, this co.’s experience during the
12 months covered by the last accounts was
quite favorable. To meet withdrawals of
£61.986 net, advances were reduced by
£52,637 and liquids were tapped for the
balance. The drop in interest and other
earnings (£104,181) was £6352, partly oft-
set by savings of £2636 in the cost ot
deposits and management (£49,405). But
taxation charges (£19,743. including £3SOO
sent to the tax reserve) were £10,076
heavier; thus, allowing for minor reserve
adjustments, there was a slip of £14,354
in the net result, which was 8.8 p.c. 011
capital, compared with 12.4, 11.9, 13.4, 13.4
and 12 p.c. back to 1926. So three points
were knocked off the div., reducing it to
7 p.c., and £3OOO was earmarked for con-
tingencies.
What the future holds it is, . of course,
impossible to say. Results will partly
depend upon how much of the co.’s funds
may become tied up in unproductive pro-
perties, and partly upon the extent to
which taxation, reduction of interest and
assistance to existing clients press upon
lighter earnings from a smaller volume of
business. For about 20 years after the
crash of the ’nineties the co. limped along,
nursing old securities and paying a trifle in
divs. It is mostly the new loan that gives
the trouble, hence no fresh advances were
sought during the last term.
The next table illustrates the growth of
the business and the nature of the financial
structure: —
1919. 1926. 1930. 1931.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital •• 101,433 300,000 400,000 400,000
Liabilities .. 272,139 869,704 972,921 910,935
Premises .. 10,741 15,000 25,900 26,500
Advances, etc... 335,277 886,584 1,144,960 1,092,323
Public securities
and cash .. 65,750 379,646 864,233 354,467
Thus the co. was holding 345. 3d. _ of the
public’s money for every pound of its own
at August 31. And of every £lOO coming to
depositors and others, £37 4s. was held in
cash (£174,025) and Government securities
(£180,442, cost). The other £577,468 was
represented by advances, premises, etc., with
a book value of £1,118,823. That is to say,
over 45 p.c. of the book value could disap-
pear before depositors’ money would be in
danger—provided they could be depended on
to do nothing stupid. There was a rush ot
withdrawals shortly after the books closed,
but it was soon over when it was realised
that the co. could meet all demands made
upon it in the ordinary course of business.
On the market 19s. 6d. is asked for the
pound shares, which were covered by net
tangibles with a book value of 265. lOd.
Allan and Stark, Ltd.
, Dividends \ „
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 22,349 2262 8 p.c. = 18,418 1669 22,148
1926.. 23,202 3100 8 „ „ 18,557 1545 23,694
1927.. 24.510 3496 8 „ „ 20,684 329 24,024
1928.. 18,992 3499 7 „ ~18,929 20,588
1929.. 25,931 3499 7 „ „ 19,010 3422 24,010
1930.. 14,054 3499 5 „ „ 13,580 20,985
I*o ss.
1931.. 4,531 3500 Nil 12,904
Turnover slipped 14.9 p.c., mainly in credit
sales during the latter half of the _ year;
cash transactions were only 4.2 p.c. lighter.
Competition, got more of an edge on it, mak-
ing it impossible to pass on all the increases
in the tariff, exchange and primage and sales
taxes, etc.; also falling prices made stocks
troublesome. Thus the result of the year s
trading was a loss of £4531, a swing oi
£18,585 compared with the previous term.
That was after taking stocks into the sheet
at £9317 below the 1930 figure, and paying
all exes., including the previous year’s tax
bill, but making no provision for the next
one when it arrives. The ulready-shallow
reserves were raided to pay the pref. div.,
and the ords., which averaged 7.1 p.c. for
the half-dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1930, went hungry. Allowing for pref.
requirements, there was enough profit in the
previous term to show 4.2 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal as against 8.2, 5.7, 8.0, 8.6 and 8.7 p.c.
back to 1925. But until some relief is got from
the burden of inflated costs, due largely to
mounting taxation, direct and indirect, and
spending power is widened by absorption of
the unemployed, nothing much need be looked
for in the way of either profits or divs.
Earnings will depend largely on shrewd buy-
ing, clean stocks and a tight hold upon out-
goings.
Since 1925 the co. has bought the busi-
nesses of the Civil Service Stores and Mar-
garet Halstein, including a freehold;
absorbed Chapman’s, Ltd., a neighbor ; built
a subway connecting the Adelaide- and
Queen-street premises, and made structural
extensions and improvements to the . build-
ings. To meet the outlay £52,413 was added
to capital, and the debt, though it is being
worked down is now £40,138 heavier than
it was six years ago. Still, there is nothing
uneasy about the finances: —
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £269,200 £321,597 £321,615 £321,615
Mortgages, etc. 50,613 82,925 82,925 82,925
Other liabilities 41,212 56,899 52,467 49,038
Premises, etc. 156,513 231,554 231,972 232,761
Stock . . 153,960 154,517 162,977 153,660
Shares other cos. 20,984 21,296 21,296 21,296
Investments .. 10,650 1,050 550 3,640
Debtors . . 59,981 64,270 62,063 53,066
Cash, etc. .. 484 20,770 4,042 4,438
Thus the floating debt is well covered, though
the more or less liquid surplus (£82,841, in-
eluding’ stocks) slipped £11,399. during the
year. No hint is given as to how Stuparts.
Maryborough, in which this co. holds 26,915
ords., fared; it paid 8 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years. ,
For the ords., covered by 20s. lid. in net
tangibles, 12s. 6d. is asked. At that figure
the return would be 8 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The 7 p.c. prefs. (50,000 of them)
seldom come on to the market.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd.
Net f Dividends •, Towards De-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Reserves, fieit.
£££ £ i
Goodwill and preliminary exes. .. 8,096
1927.. 699 10 p.c. 8 p.c. = 644 35 8,061
Added intangibles, £7547 . . • • . 15,605
Forfeited share reserve, £406 . . 15,202
1928.. .5:690 10 p.c. 8 p.c. = 3647 2043 13,159
1929.. 8,365 10 „ 8 ~ ~ 8327 38 13,121
Written off, £165 .. .. 12,956
Loss.
1930.. 38,980 Nil Nil 51,936
1931.. 8,901 Nil Nil 60,837
This late-comer in the scramble to provide
the public with credit-buying facilities soon
got its toes trodden upon. It set up m
Sydney at the end of 1926, and, in order to
get a footing, adopted a policy of absorption
and amalgamation. Also, a cash-order ex-
tract "was secured with A.C.8., Ltd., which
runs a chain of shops in Queensland. To
coax capital some 10 p.c. cum. prefs.
were offered, and 8 p.c. was paid on the
ords for the first three years, though it was
never really earned; paid capital grew from
£2B 134 at September 30, 1927, to £l<l,6li
in 14015 prefs. and 186,222 ords. at the
close of last accounts—there was £23.157 of
calls unpaid, and £149 paid in advance.
A year or so ago changes m the control
followed wranglings amongst the directors
(Continued on page 16.)


RA NCE
E N
V
I
I
V
%3
22
s?r
\
»
s
si
I*::-*
"•ii!!'m„.
iiiliiiiiiiilllliiilH!::,
:>>:•!
!•’ |l
l!<'
Hiiiiiiife
■!S» ! I!«i::.-|
! 1 i I l|
iiiij'!
Wk
lliliil!
SH
- wBaB
If'iiii; !'!■*.
!!"•
"*■ ‘H*. i 1
sfj|§
I ipilil
ii!!'ii!!iii.iiiiiiin!!:;ii!l’ii»!
si
i !i i'.
7iiiin'J , 'ni|
;„iii , !!(;ui;
!g!
igssagsu
LJBmi
j,
tijjiiiW
Mpyr;K:i
iiiiJiMuilU
I MR
!!jg!
'■i 11l
iiiiili
i'!i:
M
m
illliill
M.6.F.P.3 1
d


The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The “Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
FOR OCTOBER.
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack' Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
s3* *•'
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Cor.rasON & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Long experience with Pioneer Wood Pipe, under the
most severe conditions of service, proves its capa-
bility of living up to every claim made for it. Light,
strong and extremely durable, it never corrodes and
is unaffected by frost, heat and electrolysis. Its
initial cost is considerably less than metal pipe, and
it is much cheaper and easier to handle, instal.
freight and transport. Write for full particulars to
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bums Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Purchasers and Refiners of
GOLD and GOLD ORES, SILVER and SILVER ORES, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION, COPPER ORES, COPPER PRECIPITATES, SCRAP COPPER,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper. “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of
the Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, SEND YOUR GOLD BY POST (INSURED) TO ANY OF OUR OFFICES.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Stan Jard of Quality throughout the Empire. '
iv onobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety *>4 9 9
Detonators
Cartridges
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 45 years experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests,
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now,
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
and a section of tlie shareholders; and an
investigation of the co.’s affairs resulted in
the balance for the 12 months to September
30, 1030, being struck at £38,980 on the
wrong side of the ledger. That included
£31,546 written off for bad and doubtful
debts dating back to the commencement; the
other £7434 was the loss ascribed to the
year’s trading. It was claimed that the
business had been got on to a. profitable basis,
but the slump, including the growth of un-
employment, made the debts question perplex-
ing and collections difficult, thus affecting
costs. So, after making additional provision
of £lO,OOO for bad and doubtful debts, a loss
of £B9Ol showed up for the nine months to
June 30. Including £14,131 of goodwill,
that raised the visible deficit on shareholders’
account to £60,837, or 7s. lid. per fully-
paid ordinary share.
The position as the published figures show
it is as follows: —
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £28,134 £137,875 £164,591 £171,766
Liabilities . . 0,183 15,127 7,399 10,500
Equipment . . 1,105 2,885 3,477 4,240
Book debts . . 20,120 100,730 80,040 82,503
Investments . . 1,235 32,408 33,108 33,295
Cash, etc. . . 4,772 2,571 4,200 1,331
Thus the £7175 of fresh capital got in during
the year and more besides was lost. The
more or less liquid surplus (£73,394, exclud-
ing shares) was £4053 lighter than at the
previous balance. No hint is given as to
what the position in the subsidiaries is; the
shares appear at cost, which may include
something for goodwill.
Competition for a smaller volume of busi-
ness. at reduced rates, further cuts in trade
discounts, taxation, and the moratorium and
tlie debts problem have filled the outlook
for these cash-order concerns with uncer-
tainty. When the position clears sufficiently
a cut in this co.’s ord. capital may prove
to be necessary. Subject to intangibles in
the subsidiaries, the book value of the net
tangible cover for the pref. is £9 18s. lid.
The scrip is not listed.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1922 296,060 Nil 864,479
1923 .. 354,232 35 p.c. = 280,000 938,711
1924 .. 497.633 35 „ „ 280,000 1.156.344
1925 .. 521.590 60 „ „ 400,000 1,277,934
1926 .. 512.249 65 „ „ 520,000 1,270,183
1927 .. 355,207 45 „ „ 360,000 1,265,390
1928 .. 233,855 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,319,245
1929 .. 388,997 22.5„ „ 180,000 1,528,242
1930 .. 316,936 32.5„ „ 260,000 1,585,178
1931 . . 80,421 7.5„ „ 60,000 1,605,599
Like that of our other staples, the story of
ibase-metal production is mainly one of price
collapses and lagging costs. Last year the
South hauled only 2706 tons less crudes from
the stopes; the ore was richer, and the
exchange premium made £lOO in London,
where most of the metal is sold, worth on
the average £ll7 11s. 7d. in Australian
notes. But consider these figures: —
( Average Price
5 Years 12 Months 12 Months
June, June, June, Price,
1929. 1930. 1931. 8/10/’3l.
Lead. . £2B/8/- £2O/19/6 ,£l4/16/1 £l2/15/-
Silver 2/6.9 1/10.9 1/3.8 1/5.3
Zinc.. 30/17/1 20/15/5 13/13/2 12/ 7 /6
Actually lead dropped as low as £lO 7s. 6d.
(the lowest figure on record is £9, in 1894),
yet stocks piled higher and higher still, and
silver and zinc became drugs in the ifiarket.
Indeed, for 87 weeks of the year only lead
and silver were extracted from the sul-
phides; not until freights were reduced and
sales secured hy contract did the co. con-
sider it worth going to the small expense
of recovering the zinc content.
Thus mining operations resulted in a loss
of £65,422 as against a profit of £175,062 for
the previous year. The contraction in sales
plus products in hand (£502,900) was
£354,181; exes. (£568,322, including depre-
ciation, etc.) were got back £113,697. But
the co.’s £1,005,254 of investments, mainly
in associated enterprises, brought in £115,699
net, or an extra £8492. So, after taking
into the reckoning £30,144 dropped from
somewhere into reserves, the board was able
to exhibit a final profit of £80,421. Two
9d. divs. took £60,000, and the balance lifted
the lay-by to £1,605,599 at June 30; that
is excluding the workmen’s compensation
fund (£65,878).
But a more reliable idea of surplus assets
is t 0 be had from the following figures:—
1923. 1930. 1931.
nthpr than
mine and plant £1,091,197 £1,506,730 £1,375,457
Liabilities.. .. 200,405 126,516 88,889
Excess assets .. £890,792 £1,380,214 £1,286,568
The contraction of £93,646 in last year’s net
surplus was due mainly to equipment of the
new shaft, put down to cheapen extraction
of ore from the southern end °f tde m 1 ! 10 -
The book value of plant (£1,101,732) in-
creased by £112,146. The mine figures at
£83,176; it includes 4,000,000 tons of mea-
sured ore reserves, and large ore bodies are
known to exist outside the measured limits.
So at last year’s rate of extraction there is
something over 12 years’ work ahead.
As the old dumps became exhausted tney
provided half the profit in 1923—the output
of crudes was quickened, recoveries unproved
and costs reduced : —•
1929. 1930. 1931.
Crudes raised. . 319,323 tons 337,242 tons 334,536 tons
Extraction .. 245. 2.8 d. 225. 4.3 d. 18s. 6.3 d.
Development . . 2s. 9.8 d. 2s. 11.64. 2s. 6.0 .
Treatment .. ss. 11.2 d. ss. 7.8 d. os. 8.6 d.
Cost per ton .. 30s. 11.7 d. 265. 8.9(1.
Last year’s crudes assayed 15.2 p.c. lead,
6 2oz silver and 12.6 p.c. zinc, the improve-
ment being 0.6 p.c., 0.90 z. and 14 p.c. respec-
tively The metal contained in the con-
centrates and the percentage of recovery
compares as follows :
Lead. Silver. Zinc.
.... ( 31,063 tons. 1,015,6940 z. 34,176 tons.
1.L., 87.1 p.c. 78.5 p.c. 75.4 p.c.
, no „ j 37,054 tons. 1,299,0050 z. 40,522 tons.
19A 9 0 .4 p.c. 80.6 p.c. 77.7 p.c.
I 46,562 tons. 1,636,7120 z. 31,509 tons.
1930 94. 8 p. c . 90.8 p.c. 83.1 p.c.
I 47,928 tons. 1,875,4960 z. 9,598 tons.
1931 1 94.3 p.c. 90.9 p.c. 83.8 p.c.
That, is disregarding the zinc in the lead
concentrates and the lead in the zinc con-
centrates.
Though the co. is in a strong position,
both financially and technically, with costs
and prices as they are the mine is unprofit-
able, notwithstanding benefits through the
exchange. The need to further reduce costs
is obvious; but the mine is in N. S. Wales,
and that has increased the difficulties in this
respect. The investment value of the scrip
depends mainly on the future of metal prices,
and they may fluctuate considerably until a
world-wide return of confidence puts trade
generally on a more stable footing. To relieve
the pressure of stocks all the most important
producers have agreed to restrict their out-
puts of lead and zinc, but the history of
stabilisation schemes is uninspiring.
Following the rise in metal prices, due to
the fall in sterling, the pound shares advanced
sharply from 30s. 6d. to 335. 6d. on the
market.
The Gold Bounty
Prospectors and other gold-producers who
intend to claim the bounty to be paid under
the Gold Bounty Act should write at once
to the Collector of Customs in their own
State, asking to be registered as a producer.
Failure to do this may mean that they
will be too late to share in the bounty for
1931. Registration alone, however, does not
result in receipt of the bounty. When a
registered producer sells gold to a licensed
buyer (the banks are all licensed gold-
buyers) he should see that he gets two cer-
tificates (one a duplicate of the other) from
the buyer in respect of the sale. He must
countersign both these certificates, and then
send one off to the Collector of Customs.
The other he should keep until he sends in
his application for the bounty, and attach
it thereto.
The bounty has been fixed, till 1940, at
£1 per ounce in Australian currency for
production in excess of 451,4320 z. fine gold
per annum, which is the average output
for the three years to the end of 1930. If
the output for 1931 reaches 600,0000 z., the
bounty would aggregate £148,568. This;
divided over the entire output, would be
worth approximately ss. per ounce to all
registered producers, irrespective of whether
their individual recoveries had increased or
not.
The price paid by the mint and the banks
for standard gold of 22-carat fineness is
£3 17s. 10 Ad. per ounce. The exchange
premium payable is fixed at the ruling tele-
graphic selling price,. Australia on London,
less estimated cost of remitting the metal to
London, at present about 255. p.c. Thus
the spot price to the producer works out at
£5 Os. 7fd. per ounce. Gold of higher or
lower fineness is paid for at proportional
rates according to assay.
The Ivuku-kuku country in New Guinea
may yet have something better than a human
sacrifice in store for the prospector. De-
spite the massacres of Baum and Bellfield
and the murderous attacks on the Leahy
brothers, the yellow gleam has lured other's
into the jurisdiction of the skull-cracker.
Two prospectors on the head waters of the
Waria recently sent word to their mates in
the Mandated Territory that they are on
gold.
Federation, Woodlark Island (Papua), is
hard to kill. It lias been left for dead several
times. Now a local syndicate, after spend-
ing a year in cleaning up and renovating
plant, tram lines, housing, etc., is on the
reef and getting gold again.
* & * *
H. G. Darling and Essington Lewis, chair-
man and managing director respectively of
Broken Hill Prop., have had a look at some
W.A. shows that recently received attention
from the Prop, mine staff, but no hint has
been given as to what decision, if any, they
have come to. The ancient Craigiemore,
British Flag and Lancefield were given the
once-over, and the King of Creation (Erlis-
toun) and Wannaway (Coolgardie) came
under notice. King of Creation was worked
by Harry Raven, but Wannaway is new.
A property on the Golden Mile is also con-
sidered to be well in the running for a trial.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) has decided,
after much deliberation, to put up a new
milling plant with a capacity of 250 tons
daily. The bromo-cyanide method of ore
treatment, formerly applied to high telluride
ores, is to be adopted. Metallurgist Blackett
has been responsible for the experimental
work and the design of the new mill. He
found that under standardised conditions the
7 p.c. pyrite present in the ore did not
prevent excellent extractions being made.
The new plant will include a Ilafdinge mill
for fine-grinding and pumps instead of the
old-style elevators. Milling costs are put at
10s. per ton, and Kalgoorlie shows, treating
similar ore, are beginning to wonder.
*.* * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is iron pyrites of any commercial
value for its sulphur and other mineral
contents? (2) Would iron pyrites contain
enough gold to pay working for that metal?
—5749.
(1) Deposits of iron pyrites have been
successfully exploited for the manufacture
of sulphuric acid and sulphur. (2) Would
depend upon the amount of gold per ton
present in the pyrites. Iron pyrites is not
always gold-bearing.
I lost my job and am unable to keep up
payments on two\ bonds bought from Affores-
tation ( Aust .) Pty. (1) What is my posi-
tion in respect of balance due (£2O on each
bond)? (2) Could I recommend these bonds
as a good investment to aaiyone willing to
buy them for, say, £lO? —6079.
(1) Default in payment constitutes a
breach of contract, and you are liable to
forfeit the amounts already paid. The co.,
however, is prepared to suspend payment of
instalments whilst a bondholder is unem-
ployed. Write to the secretary immediately
and ask for this privilege in order to pro-
tect your interest. (2) The bonds are a
long-term speculative investment; any guess
as to what they are likely to return doesn’t
amount to much at the moment. Some day
the trees will have to be. cut. and marketed,
either as timber or pulp. Who is going to
do this, and on what terms? The co.’s pros-
pectus does not say. What the co. does
is to sell the land to bondholders (at what
profit depends on the price the co. paid
for it), and then act as their agent. Bond-
holders shoulder all the risks worth men-
tioning. There is no established market for
the bonds ; you would have to find your own
buyer.
On my old Commonwealth bonds I re-
ceived in interest £ll2 p.a. This less
22-1 p.c. would be £B6 16s. Yet the interest
I will receive from my new stock is only
£77 45., a difference of £9 12s. Can you
tell me why? —6224.
The new 4 per cents, were exchanged for
old securities on the basis of a 22-J p.c. cut
in interest; thus the new rate on an old
6 p.c. bond became £4 13s. per cent. But only
4 p.c: bonds were issued; so, instead of
paying the extra 13s. per cent, each year
till the date of maturity of the o-ld paper,
the Government capitalised these payments
by giving the bondholder the present value
of 13s. p.c. p.a. for the unexpired term of
the old paper. On this basis the premium on
£l2OO old 6 per cents., due November 15,
1938, is £2l 16s. This would be paid
£2O in 4 p.c. bonds, and £1 16s. cash.
(1) What is the best State in which to
make a bank deposit to avoid excessive taxa-
tion? (2) Does the JY.S.W. Government
tax income from outside the State? —5924.
(1) For a N. S. Wales resident, appar-
ently N. S. Wales. (2) Yes, under the
Unemployment Relief Act. Thus, a resident
of N. S. Wales receiving interest from Vic-
toria must pay Federal income tax, Victorian
income tax and both Vic. and N.SAA. un-
employment-relief taxes. . •
(1) What is the process of devaluing the
£, and does it involve repudiationt (2)
Is the process of devaluing the same in Eng-
land as in Australia? Is it necessarily pre-
ceded by note inflation? (3) Assume Aus-
tralia floated a loan in London 10 years ago
repayable 1932. Meantime Australia de-
values the £ to 10s., does the London inves-
tor lose anything, and how? (4) Assume
Australia floats Similar loan in Australia
and same conditions follow, how does the
Australian investor fare? —6187.
(1) It can hardly be said to bo “a pro-
cess.” Australia devalued its £ by borrow-
ing too heavily, working too little and being
extravagant in public and private affairs. It
doesn’t necessarily involve repudiation ; but
it is a way to pay £1 with 15s. (2) Yes;
not necessarily. (3) Not if payment has
to be made abroad; devalution is made up
to the London investor in exchange. Our
£ is worth only about 155., but it costs us
£l3O Australian to pay £lOO English. (4)
Quite differently; he has to accept payment
in Australian currency, no matter how depre-
ciated. In Germany the depreciation was so
great that domestic debts were practically
wiped out.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.Q.S.: Quite good, if you’re prepared to
risk inflation... .Varsity: A gamble, of course; but
we don’t believe the rise will hold. .. . J.N.: Depends
on your age and the table... .Frank: (1) Don’t know
any place where the system is in use. (2) Yes.
(3) Apparently... .J.W.C.: Advertise in the “S. M.
Herald”.... Polly B.: See no reason for worry....
Cautious: Both gambles; no assured market for the
product. But if you’ve taken a £1 share you arc-
liable for £l.. . .8.E.H.: (1) No. (2) Dominion
Forests’ report to bondholders does not state the
acreage planted; it simply says plantings were suffi-
cient to cover bonds sold. (3) The shares might
be; but the co., for its own reasons, has not yet
issued a balance-sheet, (4) and (a) Don’t know.
(6) Both cos. sell forestry bonds; but the methods
of the N.Z.P.F. are vastly different. .. .J.H.: The
actuarial investigation of the P. and C. at 31/8/’3O
showed a surplus of £1206 in the Ordinary Depart-
ment, but a deficit of £30,056 in the Industrial. After
transferring the latter to establishment account
intangibles exceeded paid capital by £7280 net.
. ...J.D.: (1) “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” June, 1930;
July, 1931; September, 1931. (2) “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,” October, 1930... .Miner: (1) Mining
Trust, Ltd., 22 Bridge-street, Sydney. (2) Gold
Mines of Australia, Ltd.; Collins House, Little
Collins-street, Melbourne... .333: You would gain
nothing by selling and putting the money on fixed
deposit; sit tight.


THE LIMELIGHTER.
“First the Commonwealth and then the world became amazed at the daring and originality of the New South Wales Labor party and its brilliant, courageous
leader, J. T. Lang.”— “Labor Daily.”
MRS. VIC: “I’ll admit he gets lot of attention, Mrs. Wales, but it don’t seem to be doing you and the kids much good, does it?”
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Bawra
A note issued by Bawra about the final dis-
tribution to be made on March 15, 1932: —
At an early date a circular letter will be posted
to all whose names appear on the registers on
September 1, 1931; this circular letter will contain
full instructions aa to the information required, and
contributories are requested to await its arrival
before sending in their certificates. As soon as pos-
sible after they receive the circular letter contribu-
tories are asked to forward their certificates and to
comply carefully with the directions which it con-
tains as regards furnishing information. They are
also requested to notify the liquidators of any change
in their addresses. This will facilitate verification
of certificates and preparation of cheques.
This distribution will constitute the last operation
resulting from the transactions of the Imperial wool
purchase scheme which commenced in the season
1916-17, and of British Australian Wool Realisa-
tion Association, Limited, which was founded in 1921
to realise the surplus stocks of wool remaining in
the hands of the British Government at the termina-
tion of the Great War. It is the final payment
of a series aggregating £236,741,955, a total easily
representing the greatest wool transaction in history
and constituting a triumph of ovderly marketing on
an unprecedented scale.
The total amount to be distributed on this occa-
sion is £753,532 and involves the preparation and
dispatch of between 50,000 and 60,000 letters and
cheques.
Three months after this payment has been made,
the final meeting must be held, and the association
will be dissolved.
To Test Banks’ Strength
“Perton”; In testing the strength of a
bank on the figures of its published balance-
sheet. (B. 2/9/’3l), it is not always prudent
to rely upon a comparison of the paid-up
capital and reserves with the total liabili-
ties, because the former are used in the
business. They may be worth face value
or less, according to whether the assets are
actually worth the amounts at which they
appear. In examining the capital account
the chief point of interest is the amount of
the capital allotted but uncalled, or the
shareholders’ reserve liability. This repre-
sents a useful form of reserve, as it is en-
forceable on call against the private wealth
of the shareholders of the bank which is
not invested in the business. The amount
of the bank’s liquid assets —notes, coin,
Government investments, etc. (the value of
which need not be doubted) —should be
compared with deposits and other liabili-
ties to. the public, a ratio of 10 per
cent, being regarded as about the limit of
safety. Incidentally, the A.8.,C. was in a
particularly strong position in this regard,
its liquids of £3,440.126 to total public
liabilities of £11.886,289 being no less than
34 per cent. The chief assets of a bank
are, however, its advances, and in accepting
this figure one can only rely upon the man-
agement, using judgment as to the degree
of conservatism observed in its general
policy. It is this item which is open to
some doubt at the present time owing to
the great decrease in earning power of our
chief assets, with a consequent fall in the
capital values upon which most of the
advances were made.
One Way to Help
“Bioko”: In the Commonwealth there are
millions of acres of good feed going to waste.
The farmers are unable to raise money to
purchase stock. Other people don’t know
wliat to do with their money. Why not buy
springing heifers? I have talked to' hard-up
farmers and have been told that they will
graze the heifers for their milk and rear
the poddies free of charge. One man I know
who has a few thousand pounds to spare is
buying heifers and arranging with farmers
in the way described. He is putting a few
farmers on their feet again, as well as pro-
viding employment for a number of men,
and •he should also get a fair return for
his money.
Farm Lands in W.A.
“Curragh”: In the midst of Westralia’s
most fertile wheat lands are many farms of
1000 acres of first-class country whose
holders are incompetents and were failures
in the most favorable periods. Here the
Government might reduce unemployment, in-
crease production and recover some of the
money sunk in the properties. One man can-
not hope to successfully farm so large an
area; subdivision is inevitable, and these
blocks could be easily cut into three for re-
allocation. Each previous holder could be
granted conditionally the stock and plant and
one of the subdivisions. Rigid supervision
would soon weed out the thriftless and non-
triers, whether old or new. Hundreds of
these properties are adjacent to the Govern-
ment water scheme; and, moreover, dams are
not difficult to sink. Left untouched, the
blocks are becoming more deeply involved and
increasing the burden on the community. The
scheme, abetted by very little finance, would
increase the number of landholders, thus mov-
ing more families back to the land to satisfy
their own needs.
Pearl-shell Possibilities
“Australia Fair”: A recent Bulletin
announcement of the establishment of a
pearl-button factory in Sydney draws atten-
tion to Australia’s neglect of her own pearl-
shell, acknowledged the whitest and finest in
the world. Along certain beaches in the
north-west (W.A.) tons of it have for years
wasted. A solitary opportunist who collected
and shipped some of the radiant splinters a
year or two ago got £7O to £9O a ton in
London. Of late there has been a growing
demand for second- to fifth-rate shell in Con-
tinental markets; and so far as our own
manufacturing is concerned, the unending
toilet dainties and cheap whatnots we keep
on importing from Japan and Germany are
full of bright ideas. What might be done
in one direction alone is shown by a Broome
pearler whose whim was to fit his car with
a tortoise-shell dashboard and door-bindings,
a pearlshell monogram and kick-plates, ele-
gantly effective and immortal. Another has
his dashboard in pearlshell inlaid in inverted
triangles, with the flashlight a blister. It
was found that the radiant and transparent
nacre magnified the light to such a dazzling
extent that it had to be veiled'with a lining
of two or three thicknesses of yellow voile—
which surely opens big possibilities for pearl-
shell in the interior decoration and lighting
of talkie shows, hotels, banks and other Taj
Mahals of the world’s business and pleasure.
Two Savings Banks
“Clifford Snook”: Wherever three people
are gathered together in N. S. Wales they
are liable to be told that someone would like
to speak a few words about the State Savings
Bank, and how it was slandered and maligned
and conspired against, but how it will yet
rise triumphant, and all that sort of thing. It
would be more honest to face the facts.
For the year to June, 1929, deposits in
the various State Savings Bank were
£1,453,299 more than withdrawals, which
was good in a way, but compared with the
year before it was a serious slowing down
and a sign of bad times coming. At June,
1930, the bad times had come. State Savings
Bank deposits were less than withdrawals by
£14,085,078, and the Commonwealth Savings
Bank was struck also, for its deposits were
£2,340,779 less than withdrawals. The tre-
mendous loan boom which followed the war
was exhausted, and unemployed were draw-
ing their money out of the Savings Banks
to live on. By September, 1930, the with-
drawals had accelerated in all the States.
Deposits fell by over seven and a half millions
in three months. Then in November, 1930,
Lang became Premier of N. S. Wales. He
arrived foaming with advertisement, and
began to roar like a land auction about cut-
ting down or stopping payment of interest
on the public debt. As nearly half the
bank’s deposits were invested in the public
debt, this loose chatter concentrated the
public attention on Lang’s particular bank.
The run wouldn’t have mattered so very much
if Lang had been capable of seeing ahead
and had prepared for the future, but he
blundered along like a tin-hare pursued by a
brass hound.
The collapse of the Westralian State Sav-
ings Bank was less sensational. The busi-
ness was quietly disposed of. Yet Westralia
had more of its Savings Bank funds invested
in Government securities than any other
State (about 16s. out of every £ against an
average of about 9s. 6d. in the £), and it
had a very small amount of actual cash with
which to face its depositors. With almost
all the money locked up in “securities”
which could be realised only at a big loss, it
was realised that it wasn’t the time for even
a ripple of panic.
Which shows the difference between having
Lang in command and almost anyone else.
Britain and Inflation
“Spes”: The full text of the Macmillan
report is a jar to Australian inflationists, who
used the cabled Labor summaries as argu-
ments for their policy. Actually the Mac-
millan committee stated that under neces-
sity British gold reserves might be lowered
from £145,000,000 to £75,000,000 and that
the note issue might be increased from
£380,000,000 to £400,000,000. Generally, how-
ever, the gold reserve should fluctuate between
£300,000,000 and £175,000,000 and Britain
should hold £50.000,000 of securities abroad.
The British departure from the gold stan-
dard is also a strong argument against the
inflationists. Britain could have passed legis-
lation to reduce her gold reserves to meet
the drain of gold, on the lines of Australian
policy. Actually she preferred to leave the
gold standard while she still possessed
£130,000,000 of gold against a maximum of
£380,000,000 notes, a reserve of 34 per cent.
Australia in the last few months has lowered
her gold from £23,000,000 to £10,000,000, and
raised the note issue from £46,000,000 to
£52,000,000, a proportion of about 20 per-
cent., which can fall by law as low as 15 per
cent. Britain has also adopted economy
measures which resemble the Premiers’ Plan
that Australian inflationists condemn so bit-
terly. She obviously means to avoid infla-
tion.
Australians should note one further point.
The Macmillan committee divides the debtor
nations into those which can be still helped
by loans, and those which have become so
heavily indebted that further loans are in-
advisable. It is to be feared that the finan-
cial blunders of John Thomas Lang have out-
lawed Australia from hope of international
aid. Probably no politician ever did greater
harm to his country and generation than the
Premier of N. S. Wales.
Goldfields Commons
“F.H.R.”: Re Bulletin articles on help-
ing the dole-men by giving them a few acres
of land to run a cow and grow a few vege-
tables. Nearly all old goldfields have re-
serves, and wherever gold is found in N. S.
Wales there are little flats suitable for small
blocks. But these reserves are under con-
trol of the local Land Boards and the com-
mon trustees. That’s where trouble begins.
These despots hate to see a stranger get a
bit of grass. I have had my horses im-
pounded while I was prospecting a common,
though I had written permission from the
Under Sec. for Mines to run them and gave
the trustees due notice. A man with four
young children has just arrived here to make
a home. Ho has two' horses to pull his
waggonette. He landed here the last week
in September, but the local bumbles reckon
he must pay a full quarter (3s. each) for
the week’s grass. Yery few people can pay
for what they get. let alone what they do
not get. How will he, who is wholly depen-
dent on the dole, get 6s. a quarter to pay
for his horses? It is time the Mines Depart-
ment took these reserves and used them for
the miners—not the townsfolk, who think
they own them.
The British manufacturer’s reputation for
thoroughness never stood higher than it does
to-day. A recent illustration occurred in
France on the eve of the classic Grand Prix
road race, an event of great importance in
the motor-manufacturing world. Bugattis,
one of the world’s leading manufacturers of
racing motor-cars, informed the authorities
that they would not enter unless it was per-
mitted to use British tyres. The authorities
agreed, Dunlops supplied the. required tyres,
and in due course the Bugatti entry won.
* * sit *
“Small Holder”: The Bulletin has
several times said, “Let’s employ more men.”
Following the advice I offered two chaps
light work at Bs. a day—all I could afford.
The first told me to go to Hell—that was no
wage; he did better on the dole. The other
chap reckoned there were no points in work-
ing when you could be kept. And these two
chaps were known to me as good workers
before State charity killed their initiative
and moral outlook.


Position 1 Vacant.
UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA.
Ralston Lecturer in Charge of the
Department of Biology.
A PPLICATIONS are invited for the above
appointment. Conditions I J ia y e
obtained from the undersigned or from the
Registrars of Australian Universities
Universities and University Colleges 1
close on the 20th November, 1931.
at 10 a.m. L R THOMAS,
on strap.
METALS ARE UP
and two more Broken Hill mines are working
full time.
MORE WAGES ™E HILL—
MORE SPENDING POWER.
Take advantage of it and m Jie most
progressive and most widely read p p
West,
“THE BARRIER MINER
Broken Hill.
Two editions daily.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Criterion
Palace “The High Cost of
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
royal “Florodora
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Chorus Boy writes :—
Anent the criticisms of the Gilbert an
Sullivan comic-opera season which have
appeared in The Bulletin. V* e boys have
been quite pained by the frequent absence
of any mention of ourselves, and on beliait
of myself and my clever colleagues 1 would
humbly suggest that your dramatic critic
should sometimes allow liis piercing giaie
to wander from Mr. Menzies, Miss Ramsay,
Miss Bremner, Mr. Ralston, Mr. btrouct,
Mr. Darnton, Miss Hotliam and especially
the chorus girls and gp<ve us our just dues.
This, I assure you, is not penned with any
intention of sowing discord arising out ot
misplaced jealousy. If it is of any news
to the dramatic critic, Miss is married
and so is Miss , and even chorus girls
may sometimes not be as unattached as they
look, but this is apart from the question.
Which is, Our Rights.
Would it be asking the impossible, Mr.
Editor, to suggest that you should cast your
mind back? If not, try to think ot the
status we boys enjoyed before this, tor us,
degrading Gilbert and Sullivan season
upon the horizon like a red herring. I refer
chiefly to the sartorial aspect of the situa-
tion. Can you not remember us boys saun-
tering on to the stage in flannels and white
sweaters, ready to burst into cricket, tennis,
yachting? Our trousers had creases down
the front, our sweaters were manly, mascu-
line, our hair refracted with its oily beauty
the vitality of men. Nobody would dream of
accusing us of being- Ciss. We moved like
young gods straining at the leash. Do we
get letters now addressed to Fourth r rom
the End? No ; not even Dorothy Dix would
write to us now. . , , _ ..
Frequently, my dear sir, I have heard it
remarked by ignorant people that “it must
“It does get your goat!"
be great fun dressing up like that and being
disguised as men.’’ One who said this in
my hearing was a dramatic critic, but of
course I do not wish to poison your mind,
Mr. Editor, against anyohe whose bread
and butter may depend upon the fact that
you are a busy man, sir, unaware _ of the
pernicious nature of the viper to which you
give board and lodgings and the wherewithal
to replenish with poisonous alcohol his fam-
ished spleen. I trust, sir, that you will
detect no note of bitterness in what I write.
We boys have nothing against dramatic
critics as such at all. We could not have
played in the same pieces with Mr. Gus
Bluett, Mr. Leo Franklyn and Mr. Alfred
Frith without learning something of the
great truth of evolution, and so we realise
that dramatic critics are evolving along in
their own way and will get there —meaning
gaol—in time.
No, sir, we are not embittered chappies.
But it does get your goat, sir, to be told “it
must be great fun dressing up.” On occa-
sion I have remonstranced with the offending
persons, and it was a dramatic critic who
replied, what about Scotchmen, Profes-
sors, Barristers, Ushers of the Black Bod
and Lord Mayors? It was with some
heat, sir, that I replied to the effect that
Scotchmen wore kilts so that everyone would
think they were the bosses in their own
homes, that professors wore black night-
gowns to signify that they could always be
relied upon to be either dead or asleep, that
barristers wore wigs so that the Judge could
distinguish them from the prisoner in the
dock, that an Usher of the Black Rod wore
his sort of rigout to save being mistaken for
a politician, and that Lord Mayors put on
rabbit-skins as a natural insignia of then-
office. To all of this, sir, he said what about
the Ancient Order of Buffaloes? And he
went on to tell some cock-and-bull story about
how he popped in at a Buffaloes’ concert, and,
looking around and seeing there was no
beer, was about to leave when he noticed that
the Past Vice-Secretary, who was acting as
pianist, was using a cask for a piano stool.
For the life of me, sir, I cannot see what
this has to do with the matter.
The point I wish to make, sir, is that in
these Gilbert and Sullivan operas we boys
have to dress up in ridiculous costumes that
detract from our natural beauty. It may be
all very well, sir, for members of the other
sex to wear hats that appear to have been
modelled on saucepans, flytraps and soup-
plates. Again, sir, is it right that we should
have things like butterflies and lace insertion
on our trousers? Add beards, sir, and what
do we look like? We look like the bearded
woman as her husband or the milkman might
see her.
Sir, I write on behalf of us boys to re-
spectfully draw youi* attention to this poig-
nant situation which your dramatic ciitic,
though he lias noted the appearance of the
chorus girls and might himself be married
with a family to support in these times ot
depression in which we boys must be philo-
sophical and regard ourselves as fortunate
to have a position at all even if it does mean
putting all thought of appearing our manij
selves aside, has overlooked.
* * *
An instance of how the commercial theatre
lags behind the amateurs in the matter o
introducing to the public worth-while drama
is provided by Doris Fitton’s Independent
Theatre co. It was left to this group
of amateurs to import Flic Constant
Nymph,” one of the best of contemporar.
plays, which stirred both London and New
York: the Independents have now intro-
duced to Sydney Elmer Rices ■ Street
Scene,” adjudged to be the best play staged in
America in 1929, which was produced at the
Savoy on Saturday. The location of street
Scene” is the exterior of a double-faced,
tliree-storeyed tenement house m a New aor a
slum, and the action takes place on a swel-
tering summer evening and on the mormng
and afternoon of the following day. Ihe
house is occupied by eight families ot
various nationalities, ages and dispositions.
There are 15 adults (all but two, a bed-
ridden ancient and a confinement case,
appear on the stage) and seven children.
In addition nearly 30 other characters—
passers-by, loafers, tradesmen and callers
come and go. The scene, which remains
unchanged throughout the play, is almost too
realistic. The continual stream of pedes-
trians, the flow of small talk,, the petty
squabbles and jealousies are typical of any
such street in any city. But from this piling
up of trivialities emerges moving and power-
ful drama. Rice flouts the canons of tne
stage by presenting it as an almost faithful
reproduction of life. The curtain rises on
a group of the residents swapping common-
place remarks. Anna Maurrant, a middle-
aged but still attractive blonde, appears at
a first-floor window. The group discusses
her affair with a collector for a milk com-
pany, ! a married man with a sick wife and
two children. She comes downstairs and
joins the group. Her lover passes by, and
after a discreet interval she furtively follows
him. Frank Maurrant, her husband, a
large and surly brute, returns from work
and asks her whereabouts. Excuses . are
offered him, and Anna comes back a little
later to face a public bawlmg-out. The
crowd swells'. An Italian music-teacher
paces along ladened with ice-creams and
hands them around. A visiting charity
worker reprimands a pale-faced deserted wife
for extravagance and is drawn into an argu-
ment with a fanatical Jewish radical. The
argument spreads and a fight is narrowly
averted. The night wears on; birthpains,
food, economics, music, morality are all dis-
cussed. Gradually the group breaks up;
some to bed, some to a speakeasy; garbage-
tins are put out, dogs exercised. Rose, the
Maurrants’ pretty daughter, arrives home
accompanied by her employer, a married
man bent on seducing her. She wards him
off and is later confronted by her father,
who talks loudly of keeping his home pure.
Screams are heard and a rabbit-faced lodger
dashes out to secure medical aid for his
wife, who is about to add to the population.
A swaggering young taxi-driver makes
advances to Rose, and thrashes a young
Jewish poet who attempts to protect her.
A girl and boy, both drunk, stagger past
on their way to a night together in,a.friend’s
flat. Then the curtain falls on the first act.
The play is like that throughout. It teems
•with incessant movement, like an antheap.
Yet beneath the comings and goings, the
innumerable cross-currents, and . the aimless
asides, the playwright deftly insinuates that
tragedy is brewing.
The second act begins at breakfast-time.
The residents of the tenement go about their
business. Milk-bottles are collected, bread-
taken in; men leave for work, children for
school ; women make beds, shake dustpans
out of windows and then go shop-
ping. Anna Maurrant, from her window,
looks down on a quiet street. She espies
her lover and beckons him up. The windows
are pulled down and the blinds drawn. Frank
Maurrant returns unexpectedly. He takes
in the closed windows, the look of fear on
a lodger’s face, then’ dashes into the house.
Two shots ring out. The lover is seen, fran-
tically trying to escape through the window.
Then another shot is heard. People pour
from everywhere, shouting and clustering
about the house. Maurrant appears, menaces
the crowd with his pistol, then escapes, pur-
sued by a few daring ones. Police, ambu-
lance men and others arrive. The body, of
Anna is carried out on a stretcher. During
“Nobody would dream of accusing us of
being Ciss."
the excitement two bailiffs remove furniture
from a room. Maurrant is captured in the
final act after a realistic struggle, and Rose,
after refusing one offer of marriage and an-
other offer to become a man’s mistress, quits
the neighborhood. The curtain falls on a
married couple entering to inspect the just-
vacated room. • .■ ,
An uncommonly good cast adds to the
interest of the performance. Therese Des-
mond shows strong emotional power as the
lovelorn, fear-ridden Anna; Marie Rosenfeld
is appealing as Rose, and Hawdon Wilson
convinces as tlie domineering, jealous hus-
band Among the other men, excellent
character sketches are provided by John
Gould, Arthur Reardon, Edward Howell and
Clarence Murphy. The best of the girls arc
Mary Hosking, Kitty Horne and Myra
Leard. Doris Fitton produces the play, and
the stage management is strikingly com-
petent. The mob scenes at the time of the
shooting and tlie arrest could not be bet-
tered. The thing could be improved on the
technical side by subduing the lighting, mak-
ing the setting less highly colored and more
dingy, and providing an accompaniment
of muted noises off stage to fill in lulls in
the talking. It is too quiet for a New York
street.
* V *
Balokovic and his faithful accompanist
Kjell (or Baron) Fleetwood said their good-
byes with music at Sydney Town H'all on
Saturday night. The Croatian fiddler has
The Past Vice-Secretary’s piano-stool.
made himself popular with Australian audi-
ences to a greater degree than any other
visiting violinist in recent years. A pleasant
personality, a voice almost as musical as his
pet Strad., and the flavor of romance that
attaches to his method of transport have all
helped, in addition to which his mastery of
his instrument is complete. The farewell
concert was made up of the Cesar Franck
violin sonata, which was played during an
earlier visit and was worthy of repetition,
and a number of smaller pieces of varyng
mood, illustrating every phase, of violin
technique. The “Londonderry Air,” beloved
of Grainger and the late Nellie Stewart, was
one of them, and the Schubert “Ave Maria
found a place among the encores, which
formed a third, section by themselves. Bach’s
Chaconne, played without accompaniment,
sounded at times like a trio, which, of
course, was the great polyphonist’s intention,
though it doesn’t often work out. that way.
Baron (or Kjell) Fleetwood stuck to his
business of accompaniment all the evening
and had to be positively forced to take his
well-earned share of the plaudits.
* * ¥
“Michael and Mary,” the new A. A. Milne
play, presented at Melb. Playhouse by the
Proscenium Club to an audience which
seemed to be mainly composed of clergymen,
would have been done better by J. M. Barrie.
Barrie would have made it better theatre
without affecting its basic sentimentality. It
contains a murder and a bigamy, and the
corpse is allowed to decorate the stage for
three-fourths of the second act —too much
to ask of any actor. Much of the dialogue
is very dreary drivel and the dramatic
craftsmanship is slovenly. All the characters
are artificial. The. bigamist is a woman who
has been abandoned by her husband and
has had her life spoiled thereby. .Milne,
however, only succeeds in giving the impres-
sion that her life would be unhappy any-
how, since she has a vested interest in
melancholia. She meets a young author m
the British Museum and marries lnm illeg-
ally. The author writes popular books and
disapproves of people who write unpopular
ones. H'is bigamous wife’s picture in the
newspapers brings back the first husband,
intent on blackmail. He dies, main-ly of
heart failure, in the author’s flat, but Ins
ghost continues to haunt the guilty couple
in the shape of a police sergeant, who, in-
spired by the author chap’s books, continues
to investigate the death 25 years afterwards.
This is the best motive in the play, but
Milne handles the theme flaccidly. Dorothy
Wise, as the wife, was perfectly in tune
with Milne’s conception. Hers was a good
piece of acting. Arthur Fay was an effec-
tive blackmailer and did his best as a corpse
under difficult circumstances. The rest may
be graded as fair to ordinary. The final
curtain left this Showman with. the feeling
that he had sat through an inordinately long
sermon. There was hearty applause at the
finish, presumably from the ecclesiastical
connoisseurs present.
“Florodora,” bearing little or no resem-
blance to the pre-war lady of the same name,
was given a respectful hearing by a packed
house at Melb. Royal on Saturday night.
Leslie Stuart’s music is as bright and spark-
ling as ever it was; in fact, 20 years of
jazz has made it appear brighter than it is.
Cecil Kelleway gives a depth and humanity
to Tweedlepunch that even its author could
not have suspected was there, while Leo
Franklyn, too inveterately comic, gives only
a collection of mannerisms to Cyrus Gilfam,
the satire on the nouveau riche. Those who
like their musical-comedy heroines to be
sweet and nothing else will get no satisfac-
tion from Dorothy Brunton in the role of
Lady Holywood. Miss Brunton doesn’t
scruple to put on a false moustache and a
suit of ill-fitting dress clothes and run off
an excellent skit on that plague of the
music-halls the ventriloquist, Romola Han-
sen makes a free present of the riches of
her voice to Dolores, and Nellie Barnes is
neat and personable as Angela Gilfain.
Sticklers for tradition might object to the
present revival. In the original “Flora.”
many of the quips refer to the Boer War,
and the present generation hasn’t much
time for the Boer War. So Frederick Black-
man got out his fountain-pen and rewrote
the piece, without tampering with the
extremely tuneful score. The results are
good; still, that isn’t to say that a Black-
man could do the same with G. and S. It
would take another Gilbert to do that, and
he wouldn’t be bothered —he would be writ-
ing plays about Babbitt, trade-unionism,
mass production, depressions and amateur
economists. The famous sextette, “Tell
Me, Pretty Maiden,” is the high light of the
present show. There are two sextettes —one
composed of amateur ladies and gentlemen
culled from the ranks of high society and
another manned and womaned by the present
co.; and there wasn’t much to choose be-
tween them, as far as this Showman could see.
• * * ¥
The augmented Tie. Prof. Orchestra gave
the first of its “grand” concerts at Melbourne
Town Hall on Saturday night, the house
being inconsiderable. Attendances should
improve as the combination gets into its
stride and the programmes increase m
weight, for there is plenty of technical
ability there. For future concerts Schubert’s
“Unfinished” and Beethoven’s Concerto in
C minor and Seventh Symphony are pro-
mised. Programme performed included Men-
delssohn’s graceful “Italian” symphony, com-
petently played. Kathleen Carroll’s singing
of the “Mad Scene” from “Lucia” was a
careful display of voice production, but
didn’t suggest as much frenzy as the occa-
sion appeared to require.
* * ¥
Melb. King’s, where the lady with the
harp in her hand always looks as if she is
about to fall off the proscenium arch on to
the head of the orchestral conductor and
break both their necks, was the scene of a
revival of VacheH’s “Quinuey’s” by Gregan
McMahon’s troupe of performing amateurs
last week. “Quinney’g” is mild and English,
but in the Cockney collector of antiques
who is torn between his affection for an
elderly wife and a beautiful daughter and
his passion for Ming vases it provides an
entertaining study of character which was
right in the producer-actor’s line. He was
ably seconded by Joy Gwyn, Allie Hobson.
Michael Hagen and Josh McClelland —the
last-named as an American connoisseur. lie
mislaid his accent now and then but gave
otherwise a faithful rendering of the part.
For the remainder of the week the co. is
billed to draw a draught of stronger brew
in “The Constant Nymph.”
* * ¥
Gregan McMahon’s second play of his
season at Melb. King’s was announced in
the “Argus” as “The Constant Lymph.
Time being the middle of Health Week pos-
sibly explains it.
The Palette,
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes: —
Well, Mr. Adrian Law! or has held another show of
modern paintings at 172 Little Collins-street, and the
Art Critic was so pleased with what I said about
them when he took me last time that he asked me
to | go alone this time. He said he couldn’t chance
it again himself because there was nothing in the
Art Critics’ Compensation Act to cover risks incurred
by looking at Modern Art exhibitions and he was
a married man with a large Family dependent on
him. Well, this time Mr. Lawlor’s exhibition was
opened by Prof. Chisholm but I missed the pro-
fessor’s remarks so I was glad when an undergrade
from the University offered to explain Mr. Lawlor
because he is a sort of amateur Bolshevik himselr
who is ever ready to take great risks in the cause
of freedom of speech. I mean, he lectures to Com-
munists on the advantages of Communism. Well,
he said that what Mr. Lawlor was after was freedom
of speech in painting. Well, it seemed to me
that what Mr. Lawlor had achieved was not
so much free speech as bad language. I mean, there
is no doubt that Mr. Lawlor’s paintings are Very
Sensational. I ihean, when he paints a person the
person’s face looks as if it bad been prepared for
the Ordeal by being trodden on by the painter. When
he paints a house the house looks as if it had been
hit by an earthquake. Well, I mean to say, if he
had to paint a house that had been hit by an
earthquake, what would he do in order to continue
to be Sensational? I suppose he would have to paint
it upright. Well, what would be the good of send-
ing him to do the Napier Disaster? So I told the
undergrade what happened once at a banquet o:
scientific people who were all talking very eleven}.
They were all biologists or something and they
were discussing the habits of germs or something
but there was one young man there who wasnt
clever at all and nobody knew how he got m and
nobody took the slightest notice of him. Weil,
there was a pause in the discussion and all of a
sudden the young man said in a loud voice A
snake crawls on its own belly but a flea is not so
particular.” Well, believe me, that young man
caused the Greatest Sensation of the evening.
“Cine Ma” : The A. R. Harwood co., whose
stamping-ground is at West Melbourne, bea
Thring to the public in the matter ot making
Australian talkie plays, but it is doubtfu
whether it was wise in doing so' or wlietho
the local industry will profit thereby, liw
vocal screen is a new and terribly exac-ti «
medium. Even Hollywood, after all its ex-
perience, produces few good films, it w
not to be expected that Harwood wouli
hatch anything at the first attempt that w
deserve presentation. If a painter exhibit
his very first portrait it would -be the same
thing as a talkie manufacturer showing bis
first opus. The chances would be 100 to l
against his selling it—unless somebody mis-
took him for a modernist.


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere,
including New Books of startling fact
POST FREE
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood,, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4 ; Sex at
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskiite, 11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan. 7/10; Enduring-
Passion, be- Marie Stopes, 7/10 ; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
loung, by Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; The Sex
Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3; Plain Fact's on Sex Hygiene, by Howard, 7/-;
Hygiene of Marriage, by Isabel Hutton, 5/-; Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4;
Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenav Beale, 10/4 ; Realities of Marriage, by Dr.
G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Youth and Maidenhood,'by W. M. Gallichan. 4/6; The Perfect Wife,
by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; Women and Love, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; The Complete
Husband, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Marriage Before and After, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale,
1/11 ; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; Eugenics and Birth Control, by J.
Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M. Gallichan, 6/3; Wise Wedlock, by Dr. G.
Courtenay Beale, 10/3 ; Medical Views on Birth Control, 6/4 ; Physical Culture Simplified—A
Complete Course of Physical Culture, 6/3; Better Sight Without Glasses, by H. Benjamin, 6/4;
The Culture of the Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; Sex Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn
Brown, 5/5; Sexual Science, by Dr. A. A. Philip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young Husband Should
Have, by Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young Man Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a
Young Woman Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6; The Book of Nature, 3/9; The Why and How
of Birth Control, by Dr. Stewart Adamson, 4/6; Contract Bridge, by Ely Cuthbert-son, 8/6;
Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11; How to Become an Effective Public Speaker, 2/2;
PRACTICAL BIRTH CONTROL, by Hornibrook.
Simple, straightforward, the recommendations in this book are
perfectly plain. The author writes with a blend of fearlessness,
practical common-sense. Mr. IT. G. Wells writes: “I wish every-
one could have read it before reaching the age of one-and-twenty.”
PRICE 5/-, post free.
Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake, 5/4; Cocktails and How to Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nubs
and Nut Crowing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4; Ten Best Card
Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official
Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/1; Popular Card Games and How to Play and
Win, by P. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/5; Foulsham’s Best Short
Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; Table Rhpping, 2/6; Practical
Palmistry (Illust.), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; 12 Best Indoor Games for
Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The
Bulletin Reciter, 2/2 ; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8 ; How to Read the Hand, by Karma,
4/-; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs,
1/11; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11 ; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11; What to Do
at “Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/2; Painting, Ironwork, Steel anid
Metal, by W. L. Savage,. 1/6; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 9/-; What to Draw and How
to Draw It, 4/10 ; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches
and Toasts, 3/-; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed
Dialogues, 1/2 ; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes,
21/-; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro
Guide to the Hand, 4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3 ; Universal Trade Reckoner,
4/3; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2 ; Prospecting for Gold
(Australian), by lon Idriess, 5/6; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to Z of
Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 2/-; Diesel Engine,
by Jones —Special Price—ls/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3; 1001 Riddles, New and
Old, 2/2; Impromptu Conjuring, 3/3; Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons
for Beginners, 2/6; Chess and Draughts, by Belasco, 1/6 ; How to Repair and Restring Tennis
Racquets, 3/-.
Try the Bookstall Co. First.
WRITE FOR LISTS. OF BOOKS ON SUBJECTS IN WHICH YOU ARE INTERESTED.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
'&fg*£o
'■■<„ ' v /'■^••rw.ts;
m
// ss;
/sss* *
HT
ď
SEAL or GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTIt
BOTTLED &CUARANTEEO
PURE BY THE FRENCH
COVERNM ENT
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vn
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
The Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters.is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME or THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
‘Tshe following statement defies contradiction f
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what vou should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumai-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Examine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agents for
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER,
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
; SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
Ivegal Notice,
TO ARTHUR LEE A BROTHER OP FLORENCE
MUNDAY WHO DIED INTESTATE AT
CHRISTCHURCH IN NEW ZEALAND ON THE
28th NOVEMBER 1929 AND TO HIS CHILDREN
AND TO ALL PERSONS CLAIMING BY THROUGH
OR UNDER HIM OR THEM.
PURSUANT to an order made on the 25th Sep-
tember 1931 by the Supreme Court of New Zealand
you are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned on or before the 31st December 1931
your CLAIMS to the estate of the abovenamed
Florence Munday failing which the said estate will
be distributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 28th day of September,
1931.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Patents.
TTII'E Proprietor of Commonwealth Patents
Nos. 20650/24, for an invention
entitled “An improved thermal relay on the
bi-metallic principle,” 20651/24, for an
invention entitled “An improved, adjustable
rotating resistance, more particularly for
polyphase induction motors with centrifugal
starters,” is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of its rights in either of the above, or
for the granting of a license or licenses to
make, use and vend the inventions or either
of them within the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia. Particulars of the inventions obtain-
able from Griffith, Hassel and Griffith,
Patent Attorneys, 67 York Street,
Sydney.
EXHILARATING ADVENTURE
IN MODERN AMERICA!
ft v
m
tm
a.
i
Right— Boarding one
of America's great
trains.
Above —Fifth Avenue, New York
...fashion's bouleva rd, teeming with
the life of the giant metropolis!
Above —New York’s 86-story Em-
pire State Building ...tallest in the
world today.
M
ASSES IN
people... masses in architec-
tural triumphs... America’s
cities offer absorbing specta-
cles of new world life. Rival-
ing them in allurement are
scenic marvels that hold you
spellbound.
Bringing every point of inter-
est within easy reach, Amer-
ica’s railways make travel
simple to arrange, delight-
fully comfortable, most inex-
pensive. They provide a serv-
ice that is unsurpassed in all
the world.
Plan your visit to England to
include America... reached
on swift Matson Liners via
New Zealand... Fiji... Samoa
and Hawaii to San Francisco.
A free illustrated booklet
will be gladly sent upon re-
quest. May we help you plan
your itinerary?
AMERICAM RAHWAY®
TRAVEL and
IWTORMAXIOni BlßEtl
12 Bridge Street, Sydney Telephone B 7981-3
FI JI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN, £35,
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 15th October and 10th December
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 12th November and 7th January
EXCURSIONS
To Honolulu, Rarotonga and Tahiti.
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8393.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
.. 18,500 tons, Oct. 26
*Anchises . . 10,000 ~ Dec. 1
tEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Dec. 9
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ Jan. 18, ’32
i'Themistocles 12,500 ~ Feb. 16, ’32
•First class only. t First and third class.
tCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
Vs/
n
Z
Reduced Costs are re-
flected by a Reduced
Tariff—but Quality and
Service are maintained
at the same world-famous
"Australia" standard.
NEW
Room
Only
RATES
Single Room 10/6 per day
Double Room 20/- „
Single Room with private bath and toilet, I 7/6 per day;
Double Room with private bath and toilet, from 30/-
per day. Breakfast, 2/- and 3/6, and a la carte.
Luncheon and Dinner, a la carte. Minimum, 4/-.
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-.
Telegraphic Address
"Austraotel, Sydney’
đ
TO MEET THE TIMES
Tiental
Melbourne* Premier Sate!
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORICINALITIES
“Ike Newt”: At this time of the year
it is the duty of the earnest citizen to con-
. sider fly-traps. The sort where the fly, by
passing through a window, touches a mechan-
ism that taps it on the head is good but
complicated, and the sugared slice of bread
with a hole in it, placed over a tumbler of
water, is apt to be tampered with when the
children come home hungry from school. The
idea I recommend is the revolving ladder —
any boy who attends a technical school
ought to be able to make one. It is coated
with sugar, intensified on the upper rungs,
and is so suspended that it stands vertically
when unoccupied. Arriving at the ladder the
flies climb up, and it gradually swings over.
Strings are hung from the lower ends for the
convenience of late-comers. The sight of the
others before them feasting on the thicker
sugar induces them to hurry; as they get
ONE TO GO ON WITH.
'ORACE : “We’re livin’ in a wonderful age, Cuthbit!"
CUTHBERT: “Wot's wonderful about it, ’Orris?”
’ORACE : “Well, there’s beer; and I suppose a bloke could think of other wonderful
things if ’e ’ad time!’
past the pivot on which the ladder swings
they sway the balance. The top end of the
ladder strikes the table and the flies are all
shaken off and break their necks.
“W.L.” : One of the effects of
the earthquakes in the Takaku
district of Maoriland has been
to increase the number of un-
derground caverns which abound
in that limestone country. At
Bainham, near Farewell Spit,
weird noises became a terrify-
ing nightly occurrence. Horses
and cattle dashed wildly about,
and after a time dairy-farmers
found that their cows ceased to
give milk. Several cockies left
the district after vainly trying
to calm their herds. The un-
canny noises are believed to
come from cavities beneath the
Takaka River, which disappears
further up the valley and never
comes into view again. The
water forces air into the cavi-
ties till the pressure becomes in-
tense. when the air finds an
outlet through the water, mak-
ing indescribable noises in the
process. Near Mt. Arthur, 80
miles up the valley, there is a
camping ground which for years
has been regarded as haunted.
The same strange noises are
heard, and horses and cattle
will not stay there. Even
human beings gradually lose
their nerve if they live there
long.
* * *
“Mica”: The Government’s
invitation to the unemployed to
take themselves off the dole and
go after kangaroo, wallaby and
opossum skins did not seriously
deplete the natural fauna of
western N.S.W. The Broken
Hill police district embraces
nearly all the kangaroo and
wallaby country, and yet half
of those who took out the special
licenses got no skins at all, and
the others did not make tucker. It was lack
of experience rather than lack of game.
* * =!= %
“Machete” : The vitality of wild creatures
is not the least interesting part of their
make-up. For some months a large wedge-
tailed eagle had been frequenting the country
round Milton (N.S.W.) Avith a rabbit "rap
dangling from one leg. When the bird vas
at last shot it was found that the trap
hung by one toe. Flesh and bone were eaten
through and only the sinew held. Happen-
ings of the kind are not uncommon. Writer
can recall the case of a very large wild boar
in the St. George (Q.) country which picked
up a dog-trap, a heavy and powerful article,
with a hind leg. The paddock he was in
was mostly very thick cypress-pine and belar
scrub, and though the poor brute was seen
A CRUEL ACCUSATION.
WIFE ( sniffing ): “ Cloves! You’ve been drinking again!"
HUBBY: “Shertainly not, m’dear. I’ve been (hie) eating apple-pie."
occasionally he was so slick, in spite of Ins
handicap, that he could not be cornered. lor
two years or so his tracks showed he was
still going strong, until one day the finish
came. He had got the trap fixed, in a forked
log and hadn’t sense enough to get out of
trouble. A dingo in similar case would pro-
bably have freed himself by chewing off the
pinned leg at the trap grip.
“Finnegan’s Gully” : According to a Syd-
ney journal, Taronga Park Zoo wants sped-
mens of the giant
frog which inhabits
the island of Guadal-
canal’ in the Solomons,
and which is said to
be rapidly becoming
extinct. North-eastern
Papua used to be full
of the brutes, as one
old-time warden now
gathered to his fathers
could testify. On one
of his tours he camped
for the night on the
Yodda. goldfield with
an eccentric old Ger-
man named Paul, who
had taken up a
miner’s homestead
lease, and ran a sort
of farm in addition to
his claim. The warden
had heard that Fred
was a famous chef,
and the feed he served
up that night was so
delicious to a palate
jaded with taro and
bulamakau that the
wayfarer asked for
helping after helping.
The delighted Fred
dived into the savory
mess at the last
appeal and emerged
with what looked like
a child’s arm on the
fork. “Dis is der
deadt finish,” he said.
“You like him, liein?”
He hadn’t finished
speaking before the warden was out in the
open laying all things that were in him
before his Maker. Even Fred’s explanation
that the arm was a giant frog’s and not a
native infant's didn’t go far to appease him.
“The Train Jumper”: Blokes have their
own way of showing fine feelings. I’d been
booted off the train at Illiba, and was
making along to the next town. All I had in
the tucker-bag was half a loaf of bread and
a tin of jam. I struck a tinware hawker
with a waggon making camp, and asked could
I boil my billy on his fire. He had just
chucked a couple of chops in the frying-pan.
“Would you like a chop?” says he. I said
I would. So he cooked me two chops along
with his. Then he fetched out bread and
butter and honey and golden syrup. While
he was doing it I got out my bread and
opened my tin of jam, putting up the best
show I could. He cut himself a slice of
bread and, just as he was reaching for some-
thing to put on it, I pushed my tin of jam
across. “Have some,” I says. He hesi-
tated a minute. I could see he was thinking
of those chops I’d eaten, and that if
he said no it might look as if what I had
to offer wasn’t good enough. “Thanks,” lie
says. He had three slices of bread while
we were sitting there, and spread my jam
with it each time. I thought afterwards that
as he carried no jam himself he most likely
didn’t care for it very much. H‘e had fine
feelings, that bloke had.
* ❖ *
“Anthro”: Of all the children’s games
enumerated by “Tiki” (B. 30/9/’3l) the
most universal is “cat’s cradle”; there is
not a country on earth where it has not,
been noted. Curiously enough, the making
of the intricate patterns is mostly confined
to nippers, though in Papua I have seen
the women, who are great weavers and
netters, hard at the fascinating amusement.
The white onlooker is usually contemptuous
of the kids’ game. When he tries to tackle
it himself, as he sometimes does, he finds
that, like golf, it is not as easy as it looks.
Most of the patterns are conventional re-
presentations of concrete matters, some of
them by no means fitted to the atmosphere
of the Bible-class.
* * * =:<
“Tambo”: The hoary chestnut that Hill
End (N.S.W.) once upon a time provided
“a nugget worth £12,000” has been going
the rounds of the newspapers lately. The
so-called nugget came from the Beyers and
Holtermann mine in 1572, and w r as a 6301 b.
mass of specimen stone. A syndicate of show-
men vainly offered £13.000 for it. The value
actually returned on crushing was £12,000,
less the value of a small parcel of rich stone
run through at the same time. Those were
the days of spectacular gold exhibits. At
the Intercolonial Exhibition, Sydney, 1872,
a cake of gold weighing 56120 z.. the result
of a crushing of 16 tons from Ivrohman’s,
was shown.
THE HOLIDAY GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The checker’s finished his busy round,
The van is loaded, the line is clear,
And the last farewells are almost drowned
While the driver tests his starting gear.
The whistle’s shrilling; we twain must part;
And as you stand by the carriage-door
I realise with a sinking heart
The holiday game at last is o’er.
Now this is a pastime just for two.
It only needs a man and a maid.
But love, alas! is a thing taboo,
Wherever the thing is properly played.
Though you never have heard the rules
defined.
They’re plain as a pikestaff just the same;
That out of sight means out of mind
Is well understood in the holiday game.
You’re humming the latest melody,
Or an air from one of your favorite plays ;
I think of the days ahead of mo
And lonely nights in the busliland ways.
You turn and flutter a last good-bye,
On your smiling face no sadness shows ;
But I have broken the rules, so I
Must pay the penalty, I suppose.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


QUEENSLAND
Is Your Market!
Why not exploit it fully? Its favor-
able position is known and admitted
by everyone.
Tell the people of Queensland of your
goods and services. There is no better
vehicle open to you than the press—
the most powerful of all advertising
mediums. Particularly should your
first choice be
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
the only daily in Brisbane that has
issued a certificate of its Net Daily
circulation, and the paper that i.s a
proved result-getter. Bate cards, etc.,
from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ROBERT JACKSON: Daily Mail Office,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT & SON, New Bridge St.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,P00,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739i0i2 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Ckairman) ;
H° n JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
EDWARD RITCHIE L KNOX V ' D " MLC; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
, General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
t OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
„ , London Office—lB Birehin Lane Lombard Street EO 3
Feder^Territory 011 * ucensland - New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
K ederat territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
ah „ the world.
CATTC nirDncrr 0 \ G ;TJ a }. W ng 2 nd Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
d
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. , . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“A.M.R.”: The oak and the ash and the
weeping-willow tree, they all grow green in the
Maoris’ countree. The oldest oak, which is 107,
has had a chequered career. R. Davis, a
C.M.S. missionary, who arrived aboard the
brig Macquarie, brought an acorn in his
pocket and planted it at the mission station
at Paihia, Bay of Islands, in August, 1824.
Later his house was burned down, but
the tree was covered with wet blan-
kets ami saved. In 1831 Davis removed to
the mission station at Waimate North. He
took the oak sapling with him and re-
planted it where it stands to-day. Captain
Fitzroy, afterwards Governor, wrote in
1835, “A thriving young English oak near
the Davis’s house, augured well, for where
English oaks succeed very many other useful
trees will certainly grow.... A living,
healthy English oak was a sight too rare
near the Antipodes to fail in exciting emo-
tion.” When the tree was 18ft. or 20ft.
high sheep-pens were built round it and
the bark was destroyed. To save the tree
Mr. Davis cut it down to about 3ft. from
the ground. The shoots thrown out eventu-
ally became large lateral branches, which
accounts for the present peculiar shape. The
height of the tree is 50ft., but the trunk,
which has a girth of 10ft. Din., measures
only 7ft. The outer branches have a cir-
cumference of over 200 ft.
'K $ $
“Harold Hardupp”: The spirit of spring-
moves in the monkey pit at Taronga Park
Zoo. Algernon and Rupert had determined
to win Gladys. The young lady kept both
at a respectful distance. When Rupert, who
is a bit of a bully, wanted to fight the matter
out, she took a hand in a way that made
him decide that he was only spoiling his
chances. Occasionally Gladys flashed her
eyes on Bill, a sombre and indifferent
monkey who disdained to mix in the scramble
for her favor. Her interest in him served
to stir the lovers whenever they showed a
tendency to slack in their attentions. Alger-
non scored a point when, instead of eating
the titbits thrown into the pit which he
secured, he gave them to the lady. Rupert
stared in amazement at this development;
but when he discovered that his hostile
snarls did no good he joined in the good
work. It was a chocolate I threw into the
pit that brought about the climax. Rupert
got it, decided that it was something extra-
special, and, after a noble struggle with his
baser self, took it to Gladys. She gave a
gurgle of delight as she tasted the sweet-
meat, and her arm went over Rupert’s
shoulder just in time for Algernon to see it.
With a scream Algie went for his rival, and
the two were soon engaged in. a combat that
had all the other denizens of the pit for
THEY KNEW WHAT THEY KNEW
“Do you know of any worse golfers than me, caddy?”
“Oh, yes, sir.”
“Well, that's some consolation, anyway!"
“Yes, sir. But they stay up at the clubhouse an’ play bridge, sir.”
DOGS I HAVE KNOWN.—"THE SUFFERER.”
audience —all save two. At an interval be-
tween rounds the gladiators looked to see
how Gladys was taking it. They got a
fearful shock. Cuddled close to the morose
Bill, Gladys was feeding him upon the gift
that Rupert had brought her.
“Roga”: In the Broken Hill district
may still be seen examples of the bush
telephone. invented by Edward Argyle,
a Victorian, now in his late seventies.
Argyle’s system was described by the
“Scientific American,” and this led to' its
adoption on a number of Arizona and Texas
ranches. Following the advent of the Bell
telephone, Argyle, intensely interested in
electrical experiments, visited Melbourne,
and, noticing a telephone outfit for sale in
an optician’s shop, purchased it. In the
course of experiments he hit upon the idea
of using the iron strand of a wire fence as
a line, and shortly afterwards perfected a
practical bush telephone. Squatters along
the Murray were communicating with each
other by this means very soon after the tele-
phone made its appearance in Australia.
$
“E.K.P.”: Should the French Government
decide on Kerguelen as a prison settlement it
will be hard on the convicts. Commonly
known as the Island of Desolation, it is one
of the bleakest spots on the globe. One
hundred miles in length and 60 in breadth,
the island is composed of volcanic rocks,
rising in places to hills over 2500 feet in
height, and so sterile and storm-swept is
it that vegetation there is little except two
extraordinary species, the Kerguelen cabbage
and huge lichens, which paint the faces of
the. cliffs .up to 1500 feet. Beyond that
limit all is naked and grim. The cabbage
bears heads of loaves, 18 to 20 inches
across. For wholesomeness there is pro-
bably no finer vegetable, but it requires many
years to come to maturity. The lichens,
remnants of vegetation now buried and lost
for ever under the waters of the Indian
Ocean, take on most beautiful tints of yellow,
black, lilac and light red.
“Nux V.”: How’s this for a queer bush
accident? One Frank Williams, of Guyra
(N.S.W.), was grinding strychnine with a
mortar and pestle to poison rabbits when
a gust of wind blew the fine powder into
his face, too suddenly for him to close his
mouth. As a result he nearly went out in
the agonising fashion of those poisoned with
strychnine, timely medical aid pulling him
through. Strychnine, like cyanide, has
caused a lot of accidental poisoning in Aus-
tralia. There was one case in Western
Queensland where a new cook took a tin of
it for baking-powder; luckily the intense
bitterness of the damper was noticed in
time. Cyanide, even in doses too small to
kill, will cause excruciating pain, as men
employed on eyaniding vats in mining have
often found out when sitting down to “crib”
with carelessly-washed hands.
:!: * *
“Cooramin” : Though the emu is one of the
best-known birds in the bush, the arguments
about its nesting habits are as endless as
those concerning the travelling methods
of the musk-duck and the breeding of
eels. Some aver that Mr. and Mrs. Emu
share equally in the long job of incubat-
ing the big green eggs; others declare
that the lady never sits on the eggs at
all. It is always the male that is flushed from
the nest in the daytime; that is, during the
period of incubation. Mrs. Emu seems to
say to her partner, “I’ve laid the eggs, so
it's up to you to hatch them.” When Binghi
wants to find a nest without beating about
the bush, lie watches the birds early in the
morning. At such times the emu, usually a
silent bird, utters a drumming noise—a wel-
come sound to the stalking hunter. “Old man
go sit down longa nest now,” he says, “an’
old woman she pull away.” It doesn’t matter
to Binghi whether the eggs are fresh or
starting to grow feathers; he enjoys his
breakfast either way.
❖ ❖ ❖ j}r
“Vogel”: One of the queerest happenings
in the story of natural history is recorded
from Europe, where thousands of migrating
swallows, hampered in their flight south by
the early advance of a severe winter, have
been collected and shipped to the warmer
climate of Italy by aeroplanes and steam-
heated railway cars. Whether they will
receive such tender attention when they land
exhausted on. the southern side of the Medi-
terranean is not so certain. Only those who
have seen it can imagine the vast horde of
migratory birds which make their landfall
annually in Egypt. The Bedouins of Sinai
line the coast for miles with fine nets set
on high poles of bamboo. These are
primarily for the capture of quails, which
arrive literally in millions, ’planing down to
the beaches, and so inland. They are caged
and sold in the big towns of Egypt, while
other birds of all varieties, from swallows
to hawks, go into the larder of the Bedouin
The Light Elor.se played havoc with the net-
ting industry in Sinai, the bamboo poles
coming m very handy for stretcher poles and
bivouac supports, while the nets helped to
make camouflage for the guns.
“IF I WAS MOSSOLOONI.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If I was Mossolooni now” —says Dan, and
here his fist
Bangs on the board and gives the plates and
pannikins a twist,
“I’d have no poor blokes walkin’ round in
britches full o’ holes,
No other fellers shiftin’ sand, no unemploy-
ment doles.
These debts, exchange an’ interest about
which bankers wrangle
An’ balances of trade need one to straighten
out the tangle.
On them that’s been responsible my axe
would swiftly lob,
If I was Mossolooni an’ was told to do the
job.
“I’d show what’s cornin’ to that crowd of
Fed’ral burrowcrats,
Them civil service parrersites an’ spongers
on their mats;
This ain’t a task for them that’s full o’
sentiment or moony;
I'd let ’em see the iron fist if I was Mosso-
looni.”
“And what’s your remedy?” we ask, well
knowing that such points
Don’t stop Dan, though his argument is
groggy in its joints.
“You coves,” says he, “who always raise a
lot of ‘hows’ and ‘buts,’
Don’t understand a big man’s job; your
minds jus’ run in ruts.
It needs a man whose will is law; the
thing’s beyond a joke.
I’d show you quick enough if I was that
Eyetalian bloke.”
Dan warms up to his subject, and his voice
is strong and loud.
“It takes a man with brains an’ grit to rule
a senseless crowd.
Your finickin’ objections an’ your ‘points’
might worry fools;
Strong men don’t work by ‘policies’ or need
to go by rules.
To you, Dave, Steve and Billy Smith, and
you, young Paddy Rooney,
I’d give the orders, you'd obey—if I was
Mossolooni.”
Thus good old Dan is privileged to talk right
through his hat.
He couldn’t give an order that would incom-
mode a cat.
A gentle, kindly soul is he, at peace with
friends and home.
But this intrigues, provoking smiles: there’d
be in classic Rome
A fund of joy and gaiety for each Ital-i-an
If Musso., there the autocrat, were merely
dear old Dan !
B.A.
BILL O'C.


BRITAIN—MaKe Your Totir Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” —8i hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
ď
6 D
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. j
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the this
Bank°oifers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane „. „ orv
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
SMOKE-OH!
"HABITS OF MOSQUITOES.
“These upper reaches of trees are the homes of
the pests; they may be called the bays of the
mosquito.”— “Sun.”
/ can't say I have heard one hay,
But I have scon them after dark,
.4.9 in their midst I cursing lay.
Fly to a near-by tree and hark.
■ * *
“Mr. Lang takes a lot of trouble in connection
with his job as Treasurer.” —“Labor Daily.”
If he took no more than a lot of trouble !
* *
“A N.R.W. dole-.drawer, a shoemaker by trade,
invented eight children to increase his benefits.”
He would make it a welter.
¥ *
“When they had been married for a year his wife’s
attitude altered. He noticed the change.”
It often happens that a wife starts to
change when a husband starts noticing the
change.
* *
JONESY’S EPIC FEAT.
Billo Wumble’s Record Lowered.
Advice has been received from the
“ Moron's ” Special Representative at The
Nook , Maman-Cochet-av., Waitara, that
Jonesy landed there at 7..9 p.m., thus heating
Socks-salcsman Wilfred (“Billo") Wumhle's
record hy 51/sec.
His Own Story.
(Specially written for the “Moron” hy
Insurance-canvasser Horace J. Jones.)
6.18 p.m.—Hopped on from Circular Quay.
Phew! A close shave! Old ’bus making
AND STILL SHE GOES ON DOING IT!
“But now you’ve divorced her, she surely can do as she
pleases!”
“Good gracious, woman, certainly not! Why, that’s
the very thing I divorced her for!”
great headway. Approx., 6 m.p.li. against
a n.n.w. head wind. Engine running sweetly
except for a knock like Harbor Bridge riveter
at work. May be nothing. Quite possible,
on the other hand, that the main crank-
shaft’s falling off. You never can tell with
these 1880 jobs.
6.27 —Hopped off and nearly side-slipped
and fell in as on Armistice Night. How-
ever, made grand recovery. Providential. A
crash would have involved loss of bag con-
taining supplies (3 of beer, 2 fillets flathead,
Ido;?, asters and 71b. blood-and-bone) and
fatal delay.
6.30 Hopped on. All set for the north-
ern journey.
6.31 — Climbing steadily. Speed, 11 m.p.li.
Nearing Waverton.
6.42 —Passed Artarmon. Caught glimpse
of Teheroa. where wife’s Aunt Maria lives.
Felt like firing brick through window.
(Messages Cease.)
Interview with Mrs. Jonesy.
(Exclusive to- the “Moron.”)
From our Special Representative at
Waitara: —-
Seen iu the cosy kitchen of The Nook,
Mrs. Horace Jones, wife of the intrepid
record-attacker, said: “I don’t know any-
thing about it, but this I do know. It he
isn’t here by quarter-past there’s going to
be trouble. Now get out, please; I. have
rny cooking to do.”
(Messages Are Resumed.)
Jonesy Zooms Ox.
“Full of Pep.”
6.sß—Made Turramurra on time, after
short sleep. Pace killing, but still full of
pep. Oh, boy! for a swig of that stuff in
tho bag! .
7.2 —Lights of Waitara ahead. Going
strong. Getting ready now for last dash.
Wish me luck!
7.6 — Turned out of Dahlia-road, 40 yards
ahead of the mob. Making a steady 5 ni.p.h.
with following breeze.
7.7 lmin. 2sec. ahead of “Billo’s” time
at the Poodlebins’ gate. Hooray!
7.5 — - Leak in hag! Gosh! What rotten
luck! No time to investigate: must make
The Nook non-stop. Hope to 1 leaven it’s
only one bottle!
7.6 — O.lv. Within jumping-distance of
front verandah.
( Messages Cease.)
“Never Again !” Says Mrs. Jonesy.
(Exclusive to the “Moron.”)
From our Special Representative at
W aitara:—•
“No, you can’t see him,” snapped Mrs.
Horace Jones, the record-breaker’s wife, at
our Special Representative. “He’s inside
having a wash. Broke two bottles of beer,
spoiled his bag, and covered the breakfast
fish with glass, the little idiot! Never again
does he go in for such foolery, that I pro-
mise you, and Mrs. Wumble up the road
says the same of her old fool of a husband.
Record-breaking! Pah! Look
at the state of that blood-and-
bone. And now I’d be obliged
if you’d go back to your edit-
ing, or whatever it is, and let
me dish up.”
EPITAPH.
He loved Ms liquor like Ms
roife; .
With gusto he would swig
it off. In
A screwed condition he spent
life,
And now lie’s screwed up in
his coffin.
Lang’s theory is that the
only way to banish the depresh
is to cause people to lose in-
terest in it.
* *
SPRIN G -MEETIN G
FASHIONS.
Popular Harry Puntall was
seen at Mrs. Bill Woop’s cock-
tail party on Thursday in an
up-to-the-minute suit of golden
dreams lined with betting
tickets. After the last race on
Saturday lie wore deep blue
looks and a quantity of crim-
son language. Horace de Pott
preferred a misty network of
the ever-popular long whiskies
with no waist. It gave him a
very full appearance, which
was maintained throughout
the meeting.
Paying his first visit to the
city, William Cowbails, jun.,
of Wombat Mountain, was
clothed _ entirely in green.
With him was smart Bob
Course-1 rger, looking his best in a glowing
proposition, which on the arrival of the
racecourse detective, changed miraculously
to a blue funk. Isaac (Ikey) Rookem, of
“The Old Firm,” wore an ornate bag, and
attracted attention by the penetrating beauty
of his voice. When Strength won Ikey liter-
ally howled with joy. He celebrated the
event by throwing away his hat, and wearing
vine-leaves in such hair as he has left.
COT CASE.
Ever so gently we helped them to carry
Binge to the ambulance. Those of us who had
known and loved him for years shook our
heads as we listened to the vehicle clanging
its way hospital-wards. Poor old Binge!
Ever one who loved to “live dangerously,”
he had been mad enough to interject down at
the corner meeting where they were advocat-
ing freedom of speech.
* *
“Investigations prove that Jonah really existed.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
He was probably a journalist in search of
an inside story.
•V *
“Port Phillip Bay has no sheltered coves.”
— “Herald.”
Except, of course, the sheltered public-
service coves who live there.
WAR REFORM.
“An eight-hour battle took place between Bolivian
and Paraguayan troops in a disputed frontier zone.”
— “Herald.”
Jock Mcßaekyard, sec. of the Canteen
Scouts’ Union, said that the application of
the eight-hour prin-
ciple to warfare was
only one of the
many reforms secur-
ed by his organisa-
tion. In future no
commands other
than those issued by
officers who were
financial members of
their unions would
be obeyed. Bundy
clocks were being
made compulsory on
all battlefields by
the new Lang War
(Amending) Act,
thus enabling pay-
masters to check up
on overtime, for
which double rates
were to be charged.
Dirt money for
trench work, as pro-
vided for under the
latest army award,
had caused a little
friction; on the
other hand, the right
to hold stop-work
meetings at any
stage of a battle had
been conceded. Any
general refusing to
produce his pence-
card when demanded
by the union organ-
iser can now be
cashiered. Absolute
preference (after
the secretary and
organisers) will be given to fully-paid-up
members in all retreats.
“Although one Boyce brother is 65 anld the
other 63 they still enjoy such games as leap-frog.”
— “Sun.”
Well, well! Boyce will be boys!
FOUND—A MAN.
There is a growing demand in Surry Hu s.
extending to Redfern and beyond, tor Bi
Headsem in the guise of Parliamentarian.
At the age of eight Bill had the largest
accumulation of marbles in the district tra*
collection being a monument to his sleight-oi-
liand as well to his art in constructing /rap-
holes in playgrounds. A year later he imro-
duced the double-headed cigarette card, much
to his own advantage. He spent his nonage
scaling saveloy vendors and short-sighted
ANITHER MATTER ALTHEGITHER.
SANDY MCSMITH: “Aye, Doctor, but there’s .a wee bit arror
in yair bill. Ye’ve changed for adveece. Ye offered it
tae me, but Ah never took it.”
gentlemen, whipping behind trams, and jump-
ing racecourse and football fences.
Manhood saw Bill the proprietor of a
string of two-up schools, forming a state-
wide trust, and a moral and social reformer
of great influence. At the early age of 4_
he started the largest snide tote in Sydney,
and definitely established himself in Big busi-
ness. To-day he is the organising genius
behind 99 per cent, of the States racing
consultations and sixpenny gambles, ranging
from chances on Christmas hampers to the
possibility of picking the. card at the ponies.
His £4OOO consultations are drawn at sea
every Sunday morning. There is hardly a
pub, racecourse, two-up school, pay-roll, pie-
stall or dole ticket from which he does
not extract his “chop.”
His admirers acclaim Bill Headsem as the
ideal politician, and prophesy that at the
next State election the Headsem 1 lan will
vie with that of Jack Bang.
V- *
The N.S.W. Government wants to win
brass from tin hares.
* *
“Dr. Marie Stopes’s books supply honest truths."
— Advt.
There’s certainly no kid about them.
* #
“Mr. Theodore hoped that no member of the
National Legislature would so far forget himself."
— “S. M. Herald.”
To give politicians their due, they very
seldom do forget themselves.
“Asked why he had assaulted complainant,
defendant replied, ‘I owed him money which I was
unable to pay.’ ”
He did his Ixest in times of stress,
But he was short of siller;
Bo as he could not foot the bill,
He had to foot the biller.
#
MEN OF THE HOUR.
The great crisis was but three weeks off,
and all Australia knew that then the final
trial of strength would decide the hopes,
aye, the very futures, of many thousands.
In their uncertainty men turned their eyes
upon plain John Pumblechook. Trades Hall
secretaries, Nationalist orators, A.F.A.
organisers and Communist agitators awaited
a lead from him before making a final deci-
sion. Big business men and laborers alike
would follow his example, and from the Gulf
of Carpentaria to Hobart Town men asked
the vital question:
What did John Pumblechook, Australia s
greatest punter, fancy for the Melbourne
Cup?
UNREASONABLE.
“My husband is mad just because I have given
up my boy friend. He has now no excuse for
suspecting me.” — Melbourne■ wife.
He’s uAid because there’s nothing that
He can when angry with her seise on;
Her friend no longer haunts their flat,
And so her hub has lost his reason!
P.
DO NOT BLAME HIM.
“More harm is caused by over-eating than over-
drinking.”—“S.M.H.”
When hubby next comes rolling in
With bleary eyes and sagging chin,
And grins a mal-dc-merish grin,
Don't sit apart and brood;
And if ho mutters with a leer,
“It w’sh the lobshter, not the beer,”
Don’t hurt his feelings with a sneer —
He may be tight on food.
A POSSIBLE CASE OF FALSE
PRETENCES.
“I suppose, now, you’ll be selling that
picture, maybe?”
“Well, yes, I hope to!"
“Look, I wouldn’t like to see a young feller
like you get into trouble over sellin'
that creek —I oughter tell you she’s dry
nine months o’ the year.”
“I am not inquisitive, but any normal husband
tries to discover what his wife is doing.”
—Melbourne respondent.
Every man has his pries, as the saying
goes.
“Professor Elliot Smith said that men developed
thick skulls when they adopted stone and wood
weapons.”— “Argus.”
Another example of Nature’s foresig it in
anticipating the arrival of basher gangs.


Quick Relief f
d
For rashes, eczema
and all forms of
itching, Burning,
disfiguring skin irri-
tations. Bathe with
Cutieura Soap
and hot water, dry,
and anoint with Cntienra
Ointment. Relief comes at
once and healing soon follows.
Cnllenra Preparations are
essential to every household.
Soap le. Ointment le. and 2s. Talcum la. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R, Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticiira
OINTMENT
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane "Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
The shades of night were falling fast,
As through an Alpine village passed
,-V/-^/
H
A youth who
drove a speeding car
Its tank fresh-filled
with C.O.R. . . .
lUI
n t
% B
m
P
\V,«
,n»" 1
\VI(
«»!<•
Excel—C.O.R!
<r
l^Su/SAcq
>0
«. 4
\\
His heart was glad,
his eye was clear
He radiated right good cheer
For had he not the race well held
Then who can blame him if he yelled . . .
“ Excel—C.O.R! ”
(After Longfellow ).
There are two sound reasons why you should use C.O.R ... •
The good of your car ... . the needs of your country. For
C.O.R will give you everything you look for in a good motor
spirit—and, in addition, every gallon you buy helps
Australia through difficult times.
a
MOTO
d
PIRIT
A fine Spirit. . and your own
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Victoria: Pooiman Street, Port Melbourne, 5.C.7. PhoneM}26i Refinery: Laverton, Vic.
Sydney: 117 Pitt St. Agents for Queensland, South Australia and Country Districts of New South Wales, DALGETY & CO. LTD.
C.M.T.1l 3
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Captivation” is the principal item at
Sydney Capitol. The cast is all-British, but
the action occurs on the Riviera —most of
it on a luxury yacht. The photographer has
avoided the clear-cut hardness of Hollywood,
as his colleague in “City of Song” did,
thereby romanticising the scenic shots, and
Conway Tearle, who is not so young as an
enslaver of beautiful Betty Stockfield ought
to be. Betty is hard up, and crashes the
yacht that has been lent to Tearle because
she can’t pay her hotel bill. They loathe
each other on sight, but when friends come
on board, and she says they have been mar-
ried by the British Consul, he doesn’t deny
it, and next day they are married by the
skipper. Then Tearle claims his “rights,”
the hound! Hardly has she driven him out
with insults when she realises she loves him.
Il'e (don’t be surprised) has loved her for
some time, so the sloppy ending is easily
arranged. The dialogue of this improbable
yarn is bright, and in places blue, and all
hands look, talk and behave like the sort of
people they purport to be —except Frederick
Volpe. He presents a yacht’s master who
is in no respect different from his admiral
in “The Middle Watch.”
Paramount’s “Forbidden Adventure,” also
at the Capitol, is another example of Holly-
wood’s engaging readiness to burlesque
itself. Edna May Oliver and Louise Fazenda
are the respective mothers of Mitzi Green,
girl queen, and Jackie Searl, boy king of the
movies. The affectations and vulgarisms of
the mothers supply most of the fun. Director
Taurog, who did so well with “Skippy,”
made a false step when he shifted his
characters to London on the trail of the
youthful King of Slovaria. The Cockney
children who enlist Mitzi, Jackie and the
king in their gang are Bowery kids; the
.Scotland Yard officials are Yanks, and there
is a detachment of supers in bearskins that
amounts to a libel on the Brigade of Guards.
But the main object of the picture is to give
Paramount’s star comedians chances to get
guffaws, and they do it.
* # #
A very free version of the exploits of
Mata Hari, the Dutch courtesan who
wheedled military secrets out of French offi-
cers during the World War, is contained in
“Dishonored” (Paramount), at Sydney
Prince Edward. Marlene Dietrich has the
part of the nonchalant and beautiful X 27,
and fills it superbly. Every change of
expression that flits over her mobile face
has significance; when she speaks each sen-
ence seems fateful. Her task as X 27 is
to discover spies on the other side and
traitors within her own Austria’s ranks.
She succeeds brilliantly in her first
assignment, the unmasking of a treacherous
Austrian general, and is then pitted against
a cocksure Russian lieutenant, Kranau,
played by Victor McLaglen. There is an
interlude in which X 27 appears at Russian
headquarters as a peasant girl, an excellent
piece of characterisation. The rest is stereo-
typed drama. Kranau and the spy fall in
love, and rather than betray him the girl
faces _ a firing squad. But the acting of
Dietrich and the artistry of the director,
Josef von Sternberg, glorify the trite develop-
ment.
In Radio’s “Young Donovan’s Kid” (a
talkie version of Rex Beach’s “Big
Brother”), now at Sydney’s Regent, there is
much weeping, but Jackie Cooper alleviates
the floods of sentiment with some slabs of real
boy. Richard Dix, as the adopter, is the anti-
thesis of A 1 Jolson, further than which praise
cannot go. In the commonplace unfold-
ing of a gangster’s reformation through
parental responsibility there is some excel-
lent character acting by Frank Sheridan, as
Father Dan, and by Marion Shilling, as his
niece. The pay-money of Donovan’s employers
is snatched from the heroine by Donovan’s
old gang. She and Donovan are arrested. He
escapes, recovers the money to the crack of
revolvers, and collapses, wounded, into the
arms of a J. Hop. That gentleman, against
all the weight of evidence,. assumes Dono-
van’s innocence, and, apparently, gives him
an acquittal, for Donovan is next seen wan
but happy in a bed, reunited to his small
ward. The heroine is also freed, there are
wedding bells in the offing, and happiness
ever after for all.
* * *
“Seed” (Universal), Sydney State
Theatre’s current attraction, is a true-to-
life film in which sincere acting and intelli-
gent direction are combined with faultless
photography. John Boles plays the husband,
Lois Wilson the wife, and Genevieve Tobin
the other woman. The husband, a clerk in a
publishing house, cherishes literary ambi-
tions, but five noisy youngsters make com-
position difficult. He has a novel half finished
—it was started soon after his marriage ten
years before, but domestic distractions have
hampered progress. On the scene sweeps an
old sweetheart, with brains, beauty and
wealth. She sympathetically arranges that
the budding author shall chew his pen in
the solitude of her apartment. Inevitably
the old attachment is revived. The wife
makes a strong effort to get her husband to
write at home, but the kids with their bowl-
ings and scuffilings spoil her chance of win-
ning him back. After breaking into the
ranks of the best-sellers he leaves her. A
decade passes. The father returns, rich,
a world-renowned author, with plans
for expensively educating the children.
The children desert the mother who has sacri-
ficed so much for them, and grab greedily
at the plums their father has to offer. But
the other lady has faded from the scene-
deserted in her turn in favor of the chil-
dren. The piece ends with a promise of
reconciliation between husband and wife. The
three principals present their parts of the
picture faithfully and naturally, and one of
the exceptional features of the film is the
acting of the five youngsters.


RUPTURE
A FREE TRIAL
If you are troubled with this complaint,
write us and we will send you our cata-
logue, fully describing our
PATENT AIR CUSHION
This appliance does away with all springs,
giving a feeling of ease and comfort from
the first day’s use.
It is the only scientific apparatus yet invented
for this complaint. No matter what strain
you place on it, it will hold a rupture
firmly in place, exerting a uniform piessure
all the time. To prove what we say
WE OFFER TO SEND IT TO YOU
ON A FREE TRIAL
If it is not satisfactory, We do not expect
you to keep it, and the trial costs you
nothing. It is suitable for men women
and children, and the price is within the
reach of everyone.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
posted free anywhere.
WINSLOW CO.,
100 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
LIME IMPROVES YOUR LAND
APPLIM
BRAND
Agricultural Lime
GOES FURTHER,
ACTS QUICKER,
COSTS LESS.
Price (in 10-ton lots), F.O.R.
Footscray,
25/- per ton
“Applim” Agricultural Lime is 95 per cent. Calcium
Carbonate. It is finely pulverised and can thus be
spread economically. Being readily soluble it reacts
quickly.
WHAT “APPLIM” DOES
Liberates potash and phosphates
Decomposes organic matter
Promotes nitrification
Corrects soil acidity
Makes clay soil friable
Tends to bind sandy soil
Stimulates bacterial activity
Promotes soil fertility
Thus plant food is made available, the soil is
sweetened and crops and pasture are vastly improved.
NOTE. —An application of “Applim” before sowing
lucerne or clover practically ensures a good stand.
Write for technical booklet.
AMMONIA PRODUCTS PTY., LTD.
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Full board from
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling
ď
teams,“ sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LIHSEED MEAL
TRACTOR FUEL.
“Penfield”: A traveller in the nor’-west
corner of N. S. Wales the other day met a
strange cavalcade —a team of 1G camels
hitched to a motor-truck. There was a man
punching the camels and a lad at the steering-
wheel ; and they were making down towai’ds
Broken Hill with a load from the Queensland
border. Out there petrol costs 3s. and more
a gallon, and camel tucker costs nothing at
all in this great season: the camels them-
selves don’t cost much more, though they are
no longer sooled off into the mulga and
told to lose themselves, as they were a few
years ago.
In the circumstances it is no wonder that
one of the oldest of West Darling squatters
—Dunne, of Netlcy—has become greatly
interested in the use of charcoal gas for
haulage purposes. Mr. Dunne’s brother-in-
law, Paul Wenz, returning to France some
time ago from his western (N.S.W.) holding,
was tremendously impressed by the progress
made in the use of charcoal gas; he found
that such well-known firms as Renault, De
Dion. Bouton, Panhard and Berliet had
adapted heavy vehicles to its use; and the
French Government, with a view to national
economy, was remitting half the taxation on
vehicles properly equipped for running on
charcoal-gas. Messrs, Wenz and Dunne and
a few others, forming themselves into a syn-
dicate (later turned into the Charcoal Trac-
tion Engineers Pty., Ltd.), made tests and
experiments during the past year. Later they
associated themselves with the Major Engin-
eering Co., of S. Yarra; and a 15-30-li.p.
McCormick-Deering tractor fitted with gas
equipment was on exhibition at the Mel-
bourne Show. A public field demonstration is
now being aranged; private tests have
answered all requirements.
Meantime Mr. Wenz, who gave attention
in France to the production of charcoal, has
been experimenting in that direction with
Australian timber, and has been able to
demonstrate that a ton of charcoal can do
the work of IGOgal. of either benzine or kero-
sene. As to the quantity of charcoal avail-
able, one tree, felled near the Lachlan, gave
21 tons, equal to 33G0 gal. benzine or kero-
sene. There arc various types of portable
charcoal burners: these, too, are to be manu-
factured in Australia. They are quite simple
and inexpensive.
Almost any wood will make charcoal; but
the Australian tests disclose that generally
the harder the timber the better the product;
so that practically every back-country settler
in Australia can get “power from the pad-
dock,” as these people graphically put it. The
tucker for the tractor would be almost as
cheap as for a camel team. And, better still,
trees don’t entirely disappear in drought-
time.
ACTIVATED SUPER.
“Arch I. Medes” : The efficiency of copper
salts as fungicides has long been common
knowledge, and in recent years a lot has
been written about the benefit imparted to
an oat crop by a dressing of a soluble man-
ganese compound. What’s wrong with add-
ing a manganese mineral, such as pyrolusite
(which occurs naturally in commercial quan-
tities in numerous parts of Australia) or
soluble sulphate of manganese, to the super,
used when sowing the crop or dressing the
pasture? , ,
Australia exports copper, so there should
be no difficulty in obtaining the necessary
requirements of this metal, say, in the form
of the sulphate (bluestone), for admixture
with the fertiliser. Of course, the amounts
of copper and manganese used to the ton of
super, would be very small. The suggestion
is that they should be added to it during the
process of manufacture, so that every par-
ticle of the fertiliser might contain its quota
of the active element, which in the case of
copper will act in the seed row and finally
in the plant.
The manganese in its action may be
likened to a plant food. .Super, activated
in this way would, I contend, do away with
the farmer’s separate task of looking for
manganese and the cost of its separate appli-
cation to the soil after he found where to
buy the stuff.
TOP-DRESSING WITH SUPER.
“Tallama”: Tell “Greenacres” (I>.
16/8/’3l) I did not say that all North
Coast (N.S.W.) farmers were dissatisfied
with super.; my remarks applied to men
on the Gomboyne plateau. This plateau
supports 12.") dairy farms on 30,000 acres.
It lias an average yearly rainfall of tO
inches; the soil is deficient in lime.
Among the Comboyne farmers who have
tried super, for years, with unsatisfactory
results is G. W. Young, owner of the Mel-
ton Jersey stud. He was a city business
man before he became a farmer, and after
24 years of practical farming he still looks
at things from a practical viewpoint. As
a progressive man (lvis herd for the season
ending 30/3/’3l averaged 3421 b. of com-
mercial butter per cow) his experiments are
of interest. He had satisfactory results
using super, with corn, planting with the
corn-dropper; but by opening the drills with
the plough and then planting with the
dropper in those drills lie obtained better
results without super. Other land to which
super was applied gave negligible results,
even where lime and blood and bone were
added.
As for Phosfull, it is a non-acid manure,
the raw material of which comes chiefly
from Tunis; 37,000 tons were used in Maon-
land in 1930. For further particulars let
“Greenacres” consult Dr. Scott Robertsons
book on basic slags and rock phosphates.
CREAM TAINT AND TOT -DRESSING.
“Rudford”: Quite a number of factory
managers (thoughtful men, as a rule)
have asserted that cream taint is due
to top-dressing. Nothing of the sort.
The food the cow consumes may affect
the milk or cream. Lucerne will give
a taint, and oaten hay will not; clover will
and cocksfoot will not, and so on. But
why pick on the phosphoric acid in super. !
The progressive farmer would rather go
without his tobacco than ask liis land to
grow a decent crop for him without phos-
phoric acid. , .
A Commonwealth dairy-officer visited
Tasmania and condemned a number of fac-
tories and the conditions under which cream
was produced. The result, was an Act forc-
ing many changes in bails and dairies,
changes which the Tasmanian dairy-farmer
has willingly accepted. Top-dressing has
materially increased the State’s output of
dairy products. This is particularly the case
with pastures that are heavy clover-growers.
Tasmania has thousands of acres that have
first of all to grow sub. clover for several
years before fertility is lifted sufficiently
high to hold the better-class permanent
grasses.
What a day it will be when butter-makers
will preach better feeding methods, better
milking methods, better storage and deliv-
ery, and the destruction of all old mouldy
and rusty utensils on the farm and in the
factory! Then we shall double our choicest
grades and bring to the Commonwealth a few
shillings more per hundredweight, as they get
in Maori land —a particularly heavy consumer
of super.
DIPPING CATTLE.
“Beefo”: Too many owners make a
hurry-scurry job of dipping, and cattle are
often knocked about unnecessarily. Not
enough care is taken with the dip mixture;
at times it is too weak to be effective and
at other times too strong. I use arsenic and
washing soda, 21b. of each, boiled in a tin
of water and added to each 100 gallons of
water freshly put into the dip. Caustic soda
is preferred by some cattlemen, but I find
it too severe.
Cattle should be allowed to spell in the
yards and to cool down for a couple of hours
before they are sent into the dip. And after
they come out into the draining pens let
each mob remain there for at least 10
minutes. The dipping of dairy herds should
be timed so that they may be properly dry
before the evening milking. Always make
sure that the depth of water is sufficient to
allow the cattle to swim; a half-filled dip
is practically valueless for tick-destroying
purposes.
Dipping operations necessarily depenn on
the state of the cattle, but in ticky areas
once a month at least the herd should be put
through, and after the first spring rains
give them a bath for certain. The dip needs
cleaning out at times; cattle carry mud and
dirt into the bath, and in time the bottom
becomes a mass of sediment.
STOOK-BUILDIN G.
“Hornby”: A little attention to the way
this job is done will obviate loss from deteri-
oration and wages for rebuilding fallen
sfooks. Best of all is the “soldier” stook.
Stand a full-sized, tightly-packed sheaf up-
right on its butt, and lean the others round
it with only a slight slant, so that any
water which gets past the roof will run ott
easily, not settle and soak in. Across one
end of the top of the stock lay a sheaf to
give the roof a sufficient draining angle, and
on this rest enough heads of sheaves to cover
the top. A stook built in this way will keep
dry through any rain.
To prevent the stook acquiring a lean ana
eventually collapsing, see that each layer is
a complete circle, thus distributing weight
evenly. No more than 30 sheaves should
be put in one stook, giving the wind and
.sun a chance to do their work. Bigger ones
will result in discoloration aiid probably
mildew.
DEALING WITH' BUSH-FIRES.
“Valerin” : “Beating like blazes” (“Grom, ’
B. 30/9/’3l) isn’t much use when a bush-
tire gets going on a hot, windy day; any-
how, one tire-cart is worth a dozen beaters.
I agree with “Grom” that fighters must be
organised under a man who knows his job.
But the best way to handle a fire is to take
ordinary precautions by ploughing wide
breaks and burning the grass between them.
This must be done when the grass is pro-
perly dry, otherwise the lire will run over
it later.' Always start the work late in the
afternoon, so if the tire should happen to get
away it can be checked quickly.
Make all buildings, sheds and stacks abso-
lutely safe. It is waste of man-power detail-
ing men to guard them when the fire does
come. Have a reliable man on horseback
scouting about to report fresh outbreaks or
danger spots. After nightfall tidy up the
boundaries of the fire and fell burning trees
within 20 chains of the grass. See that all
watercarts, pumps, hoses, buckets, beaters
and axes are ready for instant use. A few
pounds spent in precautionary measures may
save thousands.
ADVICE TO TOBACCO-GROWERS.
“Wodgil”: In 1929-30 unmanufactured
tobacco valued at £1.768,600 was imported
into Australia, £1.739.000 worth from the
IJ.S.A.; but so many people have gone in
for tobacco-growing since that imports for
the' 1931-32 year will amount to compara-
tively little. In fact, the rapid development
of rice-growing on the Murrumbidgee irri-
gation areas has been repeated in the case
of tobacco over a much wider field. Pro-
tective duties have largely helped. But it
would be foolish not to recognise that many
of the recruits to the army of tobacco-
planters have more enthusiasm than know-
ledge, and that danger threatens them, par-
ticularly in the form of blue mould. To
be forewarned is to be forearmed. The
newclium planter is recommended to read the
excellent articles on tobacco-growing appear-
ing in the Vic. “Journal of Agriculture”;
the authors are W. J. B. McDonald, Assist-
ant Inspector of Agriculture, and Field-
officer O. E. Goglan.
“Over the bulk of Victorian tobacco
fields,” Messrs. McDonald and Coglan write,
“the advantages derived from a well-
prepared fallow are not generally appreci-
ated”—and the same is true of other
tobacco-growing States. “The dangerous
practice of allowing the stalks of tlm pre-
ceding crop to persist over the winter
months, when they act as a host for diseases
and pests, is all too common in both the old
and newer tobacco-growing areas. All such
debris should be removed and destroyed by
burning.” In the opinion of the writers this
would be the greatest and most effective
step toward the ultimate control of blue
mould.
“During spring,” the officers affirm, culti-
vation should be sufficient to keep weed
growth in check, and maintain a fine mellow
mulch, free from clods and from 4in. to
Sin. deep. The planting period should be
spread over three or four weeks.” As for
transplanting, November is considered to be
the best time for most Vic. districts, although
in the Pomonal area December is generally
regarded as a more favorable month. And
“as far as possible, transplanting should be
confined to dull or showery weather.”
“Fertilisers,” it is recommended, “should
be applied to the soil just before the seed-
lings are transplanted. The best-quality leaf
can be produced only in light, sandy soils.
Such soils rapidly become depleted of avail-
able plant foods; consequently when the
production of more than one crop is contem-
plated. these foods must be restored by the
grower.” For light sandy soils which have
been previously cropped, the Vic." authorities
recommend 1501 b. to 2001 b. per acre of dried
blood, or 1001 b. to 1501 b. per acre of
ammonium sulphate or sodium nitrate, and
6cwt. to 7cwt. per acre of 22 p.c. super.
On heavier soils 7cwt. to Bpwt. per acre ot
22 p.c. super, should, it is suggested, be
applied, with no nitrogeneous manure.
IN PRAISE OF MULES.
“Bad Australian” : There is, as stated by
“Mundowie” (B. 30/9/’3l), a prejudice
against the mule in this country, but why
this should be so I am at a loss to under-
stand. Weight for weight, the hybrid is
superior to the horse, and he will work and
thrive where a horse would starve. Some
years ago I was on a job where we used
several hundred mules for transport pur-
poses. These animals did their work at
altitudes ranging from SOOOft. to 13,000 ft.
above sea-level, in places over narrow, pre-
cipitous paths that a horse could not be
forced to venture on; they did the job on
a few kilos of lucerne hay per day, and they
did it as well as a corn-fed horse would do
it at sea-level. Among other things they
carried Deaucaville rails, gravel, cement,
cast-iron water-pipes, building timber, roof-
ing iron, Yankee harmoniums and sewing-
machines. wardrobe trunks, kerosene, dyna-
mite, whisky and other explosives, bishops,
bandits, legislators and ladies of easy virtue,
titled globe-trotters and the all-too-frequent
victims of murder and sudden death. And
the goods were always delivered in con-
formity with tin- transport note.
One reason why the mule is not as popu-
lar in Australia as he should be is that little
or no care is taken in his breeding, the
first mare that comes handy and any old
donk being considered good enough for the
purpose. By replacing the weedy, under-
sized animals now used as sires by the big-
framed Spanish jack, and the exercise of
greater discrimination in selecting the dams,
whether draught or saddle, we should soon
have animals of both classes capable of
doing a great deal of work at little cost.
QUALITY FRUIT SELLS.
“Disc Harrow”: The fruitgrower's job is
one that involves a large turnover for a
small fraction of profit. For this reason
it pays him, perhaps better than any other
man on the land, to concentrate on a quality
product. It costs practically as much to
produce a case of small apples as it does
one of good specimens, and for the congested
market of to-day the small article is not
worth growing.
The first point demanding attention is
the pruning. Think it over, and ask your-
self whether a crop one-third lighter, and
correspondingly larger in the size of indi-
vidual specimens, would not pay much better.
Many growers are afraid of a thinning-out
programme. The smaller crop means less
spray, less cool-store space to hire, less
work, and most likely a larger net profit.
In the spraying it is better to have a
small number of trees which can be treated
thoroughly than a large area which must
be hurried over. A good pump capable of
a really strong pressure is the only satis-
factory instrument.
Finally there is the apple itself. Con-
sidering that it represents 12 months] work
it is sometimes treated in an unbelievable
way. The utmost care should be exercised
in the picking; and in preparing for the
market quality must be supplemented by
careful get-up. But the ideal of “quality
before quantity” should be kept in mind
throughout the year, and will be found to
apply in many directions.
FARM EXPERIMENTS.
“Jack Point”: A chap I know has sent
an order to a city merchant for 281 b. of sul-
phate of iron, “as I understand it is a cure
for cattle chewing bones, and I going
to experiment.” He will get the sulphate,
and probably put it in a trough, where it
will be ignored by his cattle; then he
will conclude that these food theorists don’t
know what they’re talking about. The desire
to experiment is commendable, but where
the experimenter knows so little as to order
one ingredient which, as authorities recom-
mend, should be used at the rate of 4 per
cent, in a lick, he would probably be better
without it.
The incident explains why there are so
many sceptics amongst farmers. They get
half of an idea, rush in (like my friend) to
“experiment,” and, having secured negative
results, or worse, are apt to regard any new 7
discovery with suspicion. If only that man
had 'written to his Department of Agriculture
and Stock he wmuld have received sound
advice. We really need many more small
experimental farms, where inquirers can see
with their own eyes the results of different
methods of feeding, breeding, etc. Without
them you will never wholly eradicate the
impression that the blokes in the city who
sit at desks and give advice to farmers have
never been on a farm in their lives.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is it possible to groiv lucerne on the
Queensland coast on irrigated river silt badly
infected with nut-grass? (2) Time to plant
and best manner of cultivation? —5027.
(1) Lucerne has been successfully grown on
the Lower Burdekin delta when the land has
.been well limed; two tons of earth lime per
acre is a suitable application, and may be
secured from H. Webb, Reid River, af 265.
per ton, f.o.r. at that station. Nut-grass is
liable to diminish early yields, but w 7 ill not
prohibit successful cropping. (2) Sow in April
or May so that the lucerne can be established
before the nut-grass makes vigorous growth.
(Continued on Page 26.)


’-4$
m i
-
swsg;
aTJ
flr^|A'
DINERS INSIST ON
THE LONG BOTTLE
cE^Le^Wibvuef^ditty
t&LLj bkt ytousoyu-
“Resch’s Pilsener is one of the
few light beers that really
sharpen the appetite ... that’s
why I mostly serve it before
the first course.
“Its pleasant bitterness leaves
a palatable taste and the desire
to enjoy a hearty meal.
“They all ask for it these days
... Pilsener, please —in the long
bottle!”
RESCH’S PILSENER
PP.3


on
7m
Xf>
•' )■
m
CR
II
The restful shoe
Pliant. . . .light. . . .built on a
special Abbey last designed to
eliminate all tightness or strain,
this is the ideal shoe for tired
and aching feet. There’s no
toe-cap.... nothing to cause
the least stiffness. The upper
arches over the instep .... laces
neatly and with complete com-
fort. The sides are cut low.
And, for all its suppleness, the
sole is made of the hardest-
wearing leather.
Three widths per size.
ORDER BY POST: Both full and
half sizes available—each in narrow,
medium or wide fitting. Specify
width and length. Ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d. per tin), or a convenient
cleaning outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf
Black Box Calf
38/6
36/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
Farmers ..
RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture . Veteri n ar y
.. Notes Etc All in ..
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES C>-
OU Wl
II
...enjoy the voyage
on a fast Matson
liner from Sydney
to . . .
NEW ZEALAND
The three and a half
day run to Auckland
is made enjoyable
with music...dancing
...varied deck sports
...movies. Meals are
justly famous...state-
rooms commodious
and immaculate.
Fares are moderate.
Early Sailing Dates
Oct. 27 Nov. 17 Dec. 8
Ask for Information
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON
LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Tel. 87981-3
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed THINK OF
d
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 4f Brilte Street. Sidney.
THE
lIMITCn INSURANCE
Ulll I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances l
i
Marine Risks <
I effected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. O. Dawson, See. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
LIKE aMICHTY hand
The strength of a giant’s hand is in an Exide when it turns
an o l-stiffened engine. And a glow of satisfaction comes
over the motorist who had the judgment to select this
powerful battery.
The reason: Exide Car Batteries have greater starting
ability in any weather for a longer period of service—
A proved fact.
WHEN IT'S AN...
C 24
The Long Life Battciy
fOR CARS, RADIO HOME lIGHTINC
STATE DISTRIBUTORS :
Brisbane—Exide Battery Service (Q-),
Ltd.
Sydney—Exide Battery Service (Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd.).
Melbourne —A. P. Sutherland.
Adelaide —Unbehaun and Johnstone, Ltd.
Perth —M. J. Bateman, Ltd.
Hobart —Medhurst and Sons Pty., Ltd.
Regular irrigation with heavy harrowings
after each cut has been taken off will tend
to overcome the nut-grass trouble. A suitable
crop to precede the sowing of lucerne would
be cow-peas.
(1) Suitable permanent pasture mixture
for sowing in the -Upper Goulburn district
(Vic.)? (2) Would a mixture of Wimmera
rye 2 1b., sub. clover If lb. and lucerne 211).,
as recommended by “L.W.M.” (B. 3/6/’3l)
for Riverina pastures, be suitable?— -5789.
(1) If your rainfall is above 23in. per
year, and the land first-class ploughable, use
perennial rye grass, 151 b.; cocksfoot, 61b. to
81b.; white Dutch clover. 21b.; alsike clover,
21b.; cow grass, 21b. per acre. On less fer-
tile soils, cocksfoot, 101 b.; perennial rye
grass, 81b.; cow grass, lib.; white Dutch
clover, 21b.; subterranean clover, lib. per
acre. (2) No. It consists predominantly
of annual plants, and has too small a pro-
portion of grass.
Wliat restrictions are there on the growing
and selling of tobacco in Cumberland County,
N.S.W. ? —5983.
The grower must obtain a license, appli-
cation for which should be made to the Col-
lector of Customs, Customs House, Sydney.
I wish to heat a tobacco-kiln by means of
electric radiators supplied with current from
a dynamo. (1) What size dynamo would a
2-h.p. Rosebery engine drive? (2) Cost of
dynamo? (3) How many radiators would it
operate? (4) Cost of wiring? (5) Are
accumulators necessary ? —5886.
(1) A one-kilowatt machine. (2) £25 to
£3O new, complete with field regulator and
slip rings. (3) One ordinary house radiator.
But a single radiator might not supply
sufficient heat for your requirements. (4)
Depends on distance separating dynamo and
radiator. (5) No.
(1) Is there anything that can be mixed
with arsenic and caustic soda, used for ring-
barlcing, to prevent stock licking the poison?
(2) In ploughing up new rich alluvial ground
growing a dense mass of shallow-rooted
grasses I experience difficulty in turning oyer
the sod. Any way of making the job easier?
—5812.
(1) No. It is suggested that the trees
should be ringbarked high, or that stock
should be kept away from such trees until
lin. of rain has fallen, washing the solution
away. (2) Try ploughing to a depth of
about sin. with the ordinary type of mould-
board plough, set very wide. If this is not
satisfactory, as would probably be the case
with paspalum or couch grass, the matted
turf should be first removed by ploughing
very shallowly.
(1) Could ant-bed be used to build a house,
used in the same tv ay as pise? (2) Is
reinforcing material necessary or would a
good ramming suffice? (3) How would it
do to make the ant-bed in the form of mortar
and pour in the moulds, then ramming? (4)
Would ant-bed do for a ceiling? (5) Would
a mixture with lime strengthen it? —6021.
(1) It is an experimental business and
likely to be more trouble than it is worth.
(2) and (3) Cement could be used in the
proportions of one part cement to six parts
ant-bed, moistened in the usual manner, and
built up in wooden frames. (4) No. (5)
Cement would be better.
Best way of killing pine-trees which are
about 4ft. in circumference at the butt? —
5729. .
Ordinary ringbarking is recommended,
cutting deep enough to reach the heart wood.
Is a galvanised-iron drum a suitable con-
tainer for pickling meat?.- —5788.
Yes, if the drum is quite clean. They
don’t last very long, but in most cases will
serve for one or more seasons.
Formula of poison bait for ants contain-
ing sugar, borax, arsenate of soda and honey,
and how used?. —5942.
Take sugar, lib.; borax, loz.; water, 1
pint. Boil until dissolved and allow to cool.
Dissolve one-sixth of an ounce of pure
arsenate of soda or |oz. of commercial
arsenate of soda in a J pint of water (hot).
Cool and add to the sugar-borax solution and
then add 4oz. of honey and mix thoroughly.
Place 2oz. or 3oz. of the material in tins with
lids and openings cut in the sides to permit
the ants to enter. A piece of sponge or rag
should be put in the liquid to give the ants
plenty of foothold while feeding. One or
more of these tins should be set down in
the line of the ant trail or wherever the ants,
are concentrating.
What is the parasite that has been im-
ported to combat the cherry slug? Has it
proved efficient ?, —5987.
The ichneumon parasite. This is still held
in the cool chamber, and will be tested on
the cherry slug when they appear, about
November or December next.
How should young and old roosters be de-
spurred ? —5989.
TJse a fret-saw or hack-saw blade. The
spur should be sawn off to about £in. from
the shank.
In a fence made of concrete posts with
wire running through holes, is there likely
to be a chemical action that will eat away
the portions of wire in the postholes ?—
5830.
If galvanised wire is used atmospheric
action, which is the corrosive agent, will
be very slow on the wires where they are
exposed at the holes. Ends of wires, not
being galvanised, should be totally encased,
being bent back to prevent slip in the con-
crete.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Poley”: Some writers assert that the
Aberdeen-Angus is dominant in coat color,
and that when these bulls are mated with
dairy sorts their all-black mops up the un-
desirable colors of the milkers. In relation
to the Jersey, this is a fallacy. I have a
liigh-class pedigree Angus bull, and mate
him with pure-bred Jersey cows; he has
yet to get an all-black calf. The calves
from this cross are surprisingly good for
the production of baby beef. The young-
sters keep rolling fat on half their mother’s
milk; the balance I turn into butter, then
“Esau”: In the N.S.W. cow country last
season inflammation of the udder was com'
mon among the dairy herds. Before scalding
the udders again with hot water, blistering
with senseless liniments and driving tlie
animals off their milk with drastic purga-
tives, try the following treatment: After
milking in the morning apply and rub the
udder carefully with 40 grains of salicylic
acid, an ounce of mercurial ointment and
340 z. of liniment of camphor. Before milk-
ing at night rub a little soft soap into the
udder; then wash off with warm water, dry
the udder and milk. Always wash the appli-
cation off before milking. Continue the
treatment till all inflammation lias gone.
Green feed will keep the milker s bowels
open and the body cool.
“F 34”: About 12 months ago a para-
graphist described a simple way of testing
milk by filling a white bottle to any given
mark and measuring the thickness of the
cream line that rose on it. I tried it, and
as I found a big difference in the milk of
individual cows I was satisfied that it was
efficient. Since then I have been herd-
testing with the Babcock. The first six cows
to be tested I had placed 1,2, 3,4, 5, G.
according to the bottle-method. As the Bab-
cock-testcr put them 1 and G equal, 5,2, 3,
4, I would advise other dairymen to use the
Babcock method rather than cull on the
strength of the home-made tester.
“Reminder”: A farm medicine chest can
be easily made from a small box; it should
be fitted with shelves, door and lock and placed
out of reach of children. .Be sure to have
a supply of bandages, sticking-plaster and
safety-pins. Scissors, an eyewash-glass and
a graduated medicine-glass should also be
included. So should brandy, castor oil,
boracic acid, mustard, tincture of iodine, per-
manganate of potash, zinc ointment and
vaseline.
“Woolpac-k”: Save old motor-tyres for
the burning season. Chop into lengths of
about 18in., lay two pieces together, make
a hole through both at one end and twist
a piece of tie-wire through, leaving enough
length to allow it to be dragged behind you
from the saddle.” Light a tussock and hold
ends of tyre in for a second or two' until
well alight; then on to your horse and away.
They will burn long enough to fire miles
of country and save time and matches. A
single piece is apt to go out, but two 1 laid
together will burn right back to the tie-
wire.
“Yarri”: Swampy areas should be sown
with Para grass, strawberry clover and
floating water-grass. These flourish in
winter; the last-named will grow in swamps
where the water is several feet deep, and a
.small area will go farther than a similar
area of dry grass land.
“Floodmark” : Save the waste and untidi-
ness of oil dripping from the bearings of
shearing machinery by cutting an ordinary
gallon tin in two and hanging the halves
beneath the bearings. Loop them with wire
over either end; this holds them to overlap.
A single bearing will lose as much as a pint
of oil during the shearing season. I use
this again in the bearing provided the green
florescence is still present; it is necessary,
however, to strain through a cheese-cloth to
remove any small pieces of wool or dust.
“lan J.”: Anyone with fencing to do in
ordinary loam or sandy soil needs a good
make of post-hole auger. The posts will be
much firmer; but as there is no room for
adjustment in the hole it must be sunk in
exactly the right spot. Do this by care-
ful sighting with a bar in the centre of
the hole and taking out the first spit with
a spade.
“Gidya Post”; When you are putting up
the next line of fence, ram the first lot of
dirt evenly round the post with the handle
of the shovel before using the bar. By
doing this you are not so likely to shift the
butt of the post, and the result will be a
true line of fence instead of the tops in line
and the butts anywhere.
“Tedski” ; If your horse is suffering from
mange, clip the affected part and apply with
a soft brush a mixture of loz. flowers of
sulphur, loz. oil of tar, 1 pint rape oil. This
remedy is equally effective for a dog, but the
dog's hair need not be clipped.
“Tliormanby”; The Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture has delivered judgment
on the important question of the comparative
merits of Dennis’s right and left hams.
Those desiring to get as much meat as pos-
sible for their money should buy the right,
it being more developed than the left. The
epicure will turn to the left ham, as being
sweeter and more tender. The reason for the
greater development of the right ham is that
the pig is a right-footed animal. When his
right side itches, he scratches himself with
his right leg. When trouble threatens
on the left side he contents himself with
rubbing against a post. As will be seen, the
process develops greater muscularity in the
right ham, while the left does not benefit
to such an extent. Who will say, after this
interesting elucidation, that scientific re-
search is not the foster-mother of modern
farming?
“Alf Alpha”; I suggested (B. 19/8/’3l),
having tried it, that swede turnips be placed
in the cauliflower rotation. A great mistake,
says “Go Do” (B. 16/9/’3l), since these
vegetables belong to the same family. As
to that, my people have been using wheat-and
oats in a short rotation ever since I was born.
“Go Do” mentions that only the oldest and
hardest cauli. leaves are left after harvesting.
Quite so-; and a very good fodder they make.
In Vic. markets the leaves chopped off when
dressing or selling are bagged and sold
either to the poultry-keeper or dairyman. The
danger of poisoning, if an arsenical spray is
used, may be disregarded; rains will wash off
any excess of lead arsenate. The common
pest of cauliflower and swede is aphis, the
outstanding remedy for which is nicotine —
a “no-risk” spray for vegetables. Grubs
rarely tackle the turnip crop.
“Mulyan” : The berries of the wild (More-
ton Bay) fig-trees are good food for fowls and
pigs. In northern scrubs wild pigs make
camping-place round the huge buttressed
trunks of the trees, and eagerly pick up the
fruit that is knocked down by pigeons.
Where the trees grow by the river, mullet
feed on the berries that drop in the water.
These fish are generally difficult to catch
with hook and line, but some river-siders get
them by baiting a small hook with a wild fig.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
, ■ The right of selection and rejection is reserved*
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Man, Sydney, wants laboring job or work in boat-
shed during summer months.—6o99.
Young man (28), Sydney, man-fed, advertising and
travelling exp., wants position.—6o97.
Typist, Western Suburbs, Sydney, wants work at
home. MS. called for and delivered.—6o94.
Girl (17), book-keeping and typing education
N.S.W. country commercial college, seeks city posi-
tion.—6o9B.
Ex-A.I.F. officer (39), qualified accountant, can
ride, wants position as station bookkeeper or in
country store. Go anywhere.—6ls3.
To buy Favenc’s “The Last of Six” and Dyson’s
“The Golden Shanty.”—6l69.
To hear from any member of the Kadcliffe-
Derwent-Watter family.—E. Radclift'e, The Summit,
near Stanthorpe, Q’land.
To buy parts (plates, dies, etc.), suitable for
use in small gold-crushing plant.—6oB7.
To buy fair-sized color reproductions of Australian
paintings, suitable for framing.—6llo.
To buy “Illustrated London News,” June 20, 1931
—6130.
To buy “Seven Little Sisters,” “Ten Boys of Long
Ago” and second-hand novels by Beverley Nichols
—6148.
Will exchange typewriter for set of “Australian
Encyclopaedia.”—6loo.
To exchange 5-valve wireless set for gramophone.
—6074.
Words of verse ending “I have come to this con-
clusion, that the road to Hell is steep.”—6ls2.
Words of “The French Version of Adam and Eve,”
“If” and “The Boy’s Room.” —6147.
Copy of English literary journal which printed
the titles of the 100 books recommended by Lord
Avebury.-—6103.
Information Sought.
Who made the ‘‘ Rembrandt” pottery ware,
and what artist did the decorations on it? —
5929.
< This pottery was made at Burslem, in
Staffordshire, about 1898, from a coarse
clay or marl, which fired a brown color,
lhe pieces were left with a slight irregu-
larity of surface. The decoration is painted
entirely in slip, and is characterised by con-
siderable vigor. The colors are low-toned
browns and greens, enhanced by the richness
of the glaze. The conception of Rembrandt
ware originated with C. J. Noke, and the
decoration was chiefly the work of Walter
Nunn, of the cleverest of the Burslem
artists. Nunn’s specialty was figures from
Shakspeare and historical characters.
Are the following to he recommended as
coarse aggregate in concrete work: (1)
Coke-breeze? (2) Clinker? (3) Broken
bricks? (4) What makes the best coarse
aggregate f—5934.
(1) Not recommended. Chief objection is
that it is porous and may allow moisture to
penetrate the concrete, which would be fatal
if the concrete contained any embedded steel
work. (2) This, like coke-breeze, is light
and porous, and produces a concrete which is
not so strong as that made with heavier and
denser coarse materials. (3) This is often
quite a good material, but great care should
be exercised in choosing it, as some bricks
contain sulphur and unslaked lime or have
other qualities that render them unsuitable.
Any mortar remaining on the bricks should
be removed and excessive dust should be
avoided. (4) Granite, broken stone or
gravel.
(1) Who can compete for the 1933 Society
of Artists’ Travelling Scholarship? (2)
Value and tenure of scholarship? (3) What
works must candidates in painting submit?
(4) Must drawings and paintings be signed?
(5) ,To whom must paintings be sent? (6)
What is the closing date? —s4ol.
(1) Candidates must be British subjects,
under 32, resident in N.S.W., who have
studied in a recognised art-school in N.S.W.
for at least two years. (2) £125 p.a.;
two years in Europe. (3) Candidates
must submit three drawings from the
life—° n e nude, one draped figure show-
ing hands and feet, and one drawing of two
hands, life-size. Also one painting of a head
and hands (life-size) on canvas, and one
painting of a nude figure (not less than half
life-size) from the life in oil. In addition
there must be submitted a figure composition
in color (not less than two figures). (4)
Each work must be signed with a nom de
plume; no other distinguishing mark. (5) To
the hon. sec., the Society of Artists, c/o
S. A. Parker, 219 George-street, Sydney,
from whom full details of requirements should
be obtained. (6) Noon on April 1, 1933.
Do crabs attack oysters? Are they much
of a pest to oyster-growers and in what
localities' in N.S.W. are they mostly a
nuisance ? —5940.
Oyster-growers suffer loss through the
onslaughts of the mangrove crab, more
common on the north than on the south
coast of N. S. Wales. The Macleay River
suffers to a greater extent than any other
locality.
(1) What persons can become coroners in
N.S.W.? (2) What are the powers and
duties of a coroner? —5973.
(1) Every stipendiary or police magistrate
has the powers and duties of a coroner in all
Partf of N.S.W. except the metropolitan
police district, which is under the jurisdic-
tion of the City Coroner. In districts not
readily accessible by police magistrates a
local resident, usually a J.P., i s appointed.
(2) At his discretion, inquiries are held
touching violent or unnatural deaths, deaths
in daols and origin of fires causing damage
or instruction to property. He may order
the j attendance of any medical practitioner
at tlhe inquest, and may direct him to hold
a !)(j)St-mortcm examination. On the evidence
submitted the coroner is empowered to com-
init for trial persons adjudged guilty of
manslaughter, murder or arsou.
(1) Is there any difference in the
meaning of the words “cottar,” “cotter” and
“cottier”? (2) Do they mean the same as
cottager? (3) Should Welsh or Welch he
used in speaking about the people of Wales?
—5990.
(1) They have the same meaning, differ-
ences in spelling being matters of locality.
“Cottar” and “cotter” are used in Scotland;
“cottier” in Ireland. (2) No. Cottager is
anyone who lives in a cottage; “cotter” and
its variations mean peasants doing so under
certain conditions of tenure. (3) The estab-
lished modern spelling is “Welsh,” except
in tiic official names of regiments, for which
“Welch” is used.
What opportunity of employment is offer-
ing, or likely to he offering, to the holder
of the I.C.S. diploma in aeroplane-fitting
and -rigging? —sB97.
At present the supply of fully-qualified
ground engineers exceeds the demand.
What were tjie first stamp issues of the
British Solomon Islands? —6009.
The first issue (Feb. 14, 1907) shows a
view of Tulagi from the sea with a native
canoe in the foreground, and is in seven
values from to Is. The next issue (Nov.,
1908) was of the same design but slightly
smaller, and consisted of 11 values, from
Id. to ss.
What are the changes that are to he made
in the Rarotonga stamp issue? —6oo4.
The current scries is to be replaced by
a new issue, inscribed “Cook Islands,” for
values Id., Id., 2d., 4d., 6d. and Is.
M.L. stamps will be used for the higher
values, suitably over-printed. The current
lid. (Capt. Cook) has been recently sur-
charged 2d. in red. It is the second print-
ing of this provisional, this time on water-
marked star M.L. paper.
Correct method of disbudding roses? —
5953.
About a month or so after pruning the
plants will be shooting again, and this is
the time to go carefully over each plant and
pinch out or rub any weak non-flowering buds
or shoots. Some are much stronger than
others; these are the flowering shoots. As
with pruning, growths should be left in pro-
portion to the ability of the plant to support
them; a weakly grower should be severely
disbudded, while a strong plant should have
three or four shoots left at the ends of the
main branches. The plants can also be
regulated in shape by pinching out all shoots
which do not grow in the desired direction.
(1) How much was received by the N.B.W.
Government as unemployment relief tax for
the year ending June 30, 1931? (2) Total
amount of payments made from the unem-
ployment relief fund for all purposes, under
the various heading s?.- —6016.
(1) £4,377,835. (2) Grants for public
works and other services, £1,763,306 12s.
lOd.; advances which are recoverable,
£609,723 2s. 3d.; dole, £1,837,886 9s. Id.;
charitable relief to necessitous families with
children under 14, £101,858 7s. lid.; com-
mission on sales of unemployment relief tax
stamps paid to Stamp Duties Office, £6764
ss. 6d.; Department of Taxation administra-
tion costs, £37,519 13s. 4d.; expenses Un-
employment Relief Council, £25 15s. 9d.;
total amount distributed, £4.357,084 6s. Bd.
(1) What are the rules for choosing a
frame for a picture? (2) I have a couple
of old color prints. What would he suitable
for them:, and should ihey he mounted? —
6024.
(1) Generally speaking, gold (light, dark
or greenish-bronze) for oil paintings, the
frame being just a little lower in tone than
the picture. White or gold for water-colors,
with a wide cream mount. A narrow black
or brown beading for etchings, lithographs,
woodcuts, linocuts and pen drawings. Pencil
drawings are framed with or without a
mount, in black or cream beading. (2)
Swept or moulded gold. Impossible to de-
cide about mounting without seeing the
prints.
(1) /am an experienced stockman. Would
I stand much chance of securing a position
in New Caledonia among cattle? (2) Any
immigration restrictions there? —s96l.
(1) Can’t say. British Consul in Noumea
would be able to advise. (2) Authorisa-
tion of the Governor of the colony is neces-
sary before a foreigner can enter. An Aus-
tralian would have to send his application
to the Governor through the French Con-
sulate-General, Sydney,
Linklater in his novel “Juan in America”
speaks of Juan, to ho spent two years in Aus-
tralia, as being “too intelligent to spend all
his life among tups and gimmers and drinkers
of strong tea.” What are “tups and) gim-
mers.” —6075.
Tups are rams, or male sheep. A gimmer
is an unshorn ewe between one and two
years old. The terms belong to English, not
Australian, wool terminology.
(1) What language is spoken in China by
educated Chinese? (2) Is English taught
or spoken much in Japan?- —5960.
(1) Guan Hwa, or “officer talk,” also
known as “Mandarin.” It is the dialect of
Northern China. (2) It is a compulsory
subject in the schools. A Bulletin man
regularly corresponds with a Kyoto rick-
shaw puller who writes quaint but thoroughly
expressive English.
I placed an order for and paid a deposit an a
refrigerator on July 9. It was not delivered
till July 21. Am I liable to 2) n.c. or 6 n r
sales tax? —s49B. * 1
The Taxation Commissioner claims that
sales tax is payable at 6 p.c. This rate
became operative on July 11, and the sale
is regarded as having taken place on the
date on which delivery was given.
How can I register a trade-mark in Syd-
ney? What are the fees?. —6089.
Apply Trade Marks Office, Commonwealth
Bank Chambers, Martin-place. Fees: £2 on
lodgment of application ; £3 on registration.
After lodgment a report as to registrability
is furnished to the applicant. Before apply-
ing, make a search in the indexes (fee 25.)
to see whether your trade-mark is already
registered.
I manufacture home-made pickles, sauces,
jams, etc., for sale in my shop only. Does
the sales tax apply to me, and must I
register?■ —s3B3.
Registration is not required of a manu-
facturer selling goods exclusively by retail
the total value of whose average yearly sales
is not, or would not be, in the opinion of the
Commissioner, in excess of £lOOO. As an
unregistered person, you are not required to
pay sales tax, except to the extent of any
tax passed on to you by a vendor from whom
you obtain supplies.
(1) Meaning of (a) “distributed capa-
city,” and (b) “ space factor ” in a tuning
coil? (2) Name of a comprehensive book on
wireless telegraphy and telephony? —6o4o.
(1) (a) The small capacity existing
between the adjacent turns of an inductance.
Its value depends upon the number and prox-
imity of the turns, the type of insulation
employed and the method of winding adopted.
The distributed capacity of an inductance is
always kept at as low a value as possible.
(b) A correction factor that varies with the
spacing between the turns. (2) “Practical
Radio Telegraphy and Telephony,” by
Duncan and Drew, price 565.
(1) What constitutes the “Hawkesbury
sandstone belt’’? (2) How does this stone
differ from sandstone found elsewhere in
Australia? (3) How did the Hawkesbury
River get its name? —5947.
(1) It covers an extensive area surround-
ing Sydney in all directions. (2) No geolo-
gical difference, but it is especially suited for
building purposes. (3) So named by Gov-
ernor Phillip after Lord Hawkesbury, who
was president of the Council of Trade.
Can maintenance paid through the Chil-
dren’s Court be taxed? There is no divorce
or legal separation, though husband and wife
arc not living together.- —6007.
Maintenance payments are neither income
nor wages, and therefore are not subject to
taxation as such.
(1) What chances have two capable, ener-
getic girls, experienced calce-bakers and deco-
rators, of making a Hiring at a home-cooking
and catering business in a small town? (2)
Capital required ? —6034.
(1) If the town is very small, no hope;
if it is large enough to provide sufficient
customers, the chances are very good, but
everything depends on the workers them-
selves. The job calls for patience, hard work,
good temper and good manners. (2) Enough
to test the scheme for 12 months, to give it
a chance ; board and lodging, clothing, rent
of shop, fittings and materials for baking,
also some advertising, stove and fuel, etc.
Profits might come in early, but could not
be counted on. Make a list of all possible
expenses for one year, as much depends on
local conditions not known to us. Probably
not less than £2OO required.
(1) Can a degree in economics in N.B.W.
be obtained without attending a university?
(2) What qualifications are needed to sit for
the degree? (3) Would a knowledge of
accountancy help? (4) What books should
a beginner obtain for home study? (5)
Length and cost of Uni. course? (6) Where
can I get further information? —6019.
(1) No. (2) Candidates must pass the
matriculation exam, prescribed for entrance
to the faculty. (3) Accountancy is a com-
pulsory subject. (4) Beginners should con-
fine their studies to matriculation subjects.
(5) Four years after matriculation; fees
amount to £lO2. (6) Registrar, Sydney Uni.
What records can be claimed for the Syd-
ney harbor bridge? Is its single span the
largest in the world? Approximate date of
opening ? —5996.
W.ell, 570 tons of steelwork were erected in
one day, the largest day’s work 1, in the con-
struction of an arch bridge. The main span is
not the longest in the world, but taking into
account the designed loading, the bridge is
the largest arch bridge in the world. Official
opening is planned for March 19 next.
(1) Our picnic race club (N.B. W.) held
a meeting on a registered racecourse, but did
not charge for admission. Many attended the
meeting who were not members of the club
and were not invited. The N.B.W. Taxation
Commissioner claims entertainment tax. Is
that a legal claim? (2) What is the penalty . s
for non-payment of tax, and how is it re-
coverable if the club is disbanded and has
no funds? —5883.
(1) The Commissioner is empowered to
levy tax on members’ subscriptions in respect
of such an amount as appears to the Com-
missioner to represent the right to attend
race meetings. (2) The penalty for failing
to furnish information regarding subscrip-
tions is up to £5O. Tax payable is recover-
able from any of the club’s officials by way
of civil debt.
What is the English and Australian inter-
pretation of the law of the domicile? —6oll.
Domicile is the place where a person has
his home. To constitute it there must be
residence and the intention of making it a
home. It is of three kinds: domicile by birth,
domicile by choice and domicile by operation
of law —an example of the last ’is where a
wife acquires the domicile of her husband.
The law is the same in England and Aus-
tralia.
How to raise chrysanthemums as pot
plants ? —5959.
Varieties of dwarf habit and good foliage
should be selected. Start the rooted cuttings
in sin. pots, and decide upon shape—cone
is the most popular. For this the plants
must be stopped when a few inches high, and,
as they require it, repotted into 6in. or 7in.
pots and filially into lOin. Then train the
shoots to long sticks, with one central stick
firmly pushed into the soil. The shoots that
threaten to overcrowd the centre must be
rubbed off. Pots should be plunged in ashes
or sand in a sheltered, sunny position.
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of Wyndomel, name of pastoral
property in the Riverina (N.S.W.) ?—6030.
Brief Answers.
H.W.R.: He is entitled to charge interest
where notice to that effect has been given... .R.N.:
(1) The insurance money would fall into the general
estate of the deceased, out of which his debts are
pa:d. (2) No. (3) You would have to pay up the
uncalled capital; it is unlikely the liquidators would
consent to set off your deposits against the call.
(4) They could get judgment and proceed to execu-
tion against the debtors’ goods J.W.S.: Can’t
say without full facts. Ask the vendor for an
extension of time... .E.M.: If yOu wish to remain
in occupancy you should make terms with the land-
lord. You could apply to the Fair Rents Court to
reduce the rent... . D.J.R.: You cannot claim agist-
ment. Give him notice in writing to remove his
stock, or if a letter to his last address does not
get him,, put an advt. in the local paper and one
in a metropolitan daily... .Dumbeyung: The Govern-
ment might commandeer. What would happen then
this Department can’t tell you H.A.S.: The
heaviest Bell pear which has been brought to notice
is 21b. loz. The average is about 100 z.... .F.D.:
If the amount received was the equivalent of £2
per week or higher, Unemployment Relief Tax is
payable. Liability to collect is placed on the em-
ployer. The employee is not required to see that
stamps have been affixed in respect of amounts paid
to him A.J.D.: Write Salkeld and Wallace, 119
Clarence-street, Sydney H.W.C.: Try George
Newnes, 8 Southampton-street, W. 0.2 ; Hutchinson and
Co., 33 Paternoster-row, E.C.4 ; Herbert Jenkins, 3
York-street, St. James’s, S.W.l—all London.
... .H.M.W.: Yes. Apply for forms to Commissioner of
Family Endowment, Macquarie-street, Sydney....
E.H.P.: Get in touch with Abel Lemon and Co., 94
ITarrington-street; British Dyestuffs Corporation, 277
Clarence-street; Robert Bryce and Co., 414 Kent-
street—all Sydney T.W.: (1) Don’t know which
of several you refer to. (2) If direct shipment from
Geraldton is possible, about 475. 6d. per ton. If
transhipment at Fremantle is necessary, about 675.
6d. per ton. Communicate with Francis H. Snow,
Adelaide, who is buying in W.A. for Belgian
smelters... .A.D.P.: Income earned from employ-
ment in N.S.W. is subject to Unemployment Relief
Tax irrespective of the source from which payment
is made. Inquiries in regard to sales tax should
be directed to the Deputy Federal Commissioner of
Taxation, George-street North, Sydney.... J.J.C.: If
in mint condition it is worth Is. 6d.; otherwise, face
value... .D.T.: Consult Australian Music Examina-
tions Board’s Manual, obtainable from the Registrar
of the Conservatorium, Sydney 5.0.5.: (1) Death
records made by Father Dixon (1803-08) would
not be in the Registrar-General’s office, which came
into existence some 50 years later. (2) Fathers
Connolly and Therry would only record baptisms,
marriages and funerals (not deaths) at which they
officiated... .1.P.L.: Buttonhole Costume Co., 199
Liverpool-street.,. .C.C.: Write W. H. Walker, 157
Sussex-street, Sydney W.W.S.: Write Director,
Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney....
M. : Chances are very remote, but you might
write to Burns, Philp, Bridge-street, Sydney....
J.R.: Only the first volume of the French section
of the official history of the A.I.F. has been pub-
lished... .M.F.8.: Under the Mexican constitution
Church is separated from State, and no ecclesi-
astical body can acquire landed property. In 1926
all foreign priests were expelled, and the property
of the Church was declared to belong to the State.
....J.L.S. and A.V.C.: Information insufficient.
Communicate with the Dept, of Taxation, Sydney.
....J.R.: Don’t know of any Australian firm
marketing this make, but the hydraulic
wheel-puller can be used with practically every
make of American car. Cost in Sydney, £6 2s. 6d.
Particulars, Bennett and Wood, 289 Pitt-street,
. ...W.C.: Applications for membership should
be addressed to the Hon. Sec., Dept, of Commerce,
Melbourne Uni., Carlton (Yic.) W.F.C.: The quota-
tion is from Tennyson’s “Lady Clara Vere de Vere.”
... .F.W.V.W.: (1) Write Commissioner of Police,
Perth (W.A.). (2) and (3) Chances of securing appoint,
ment to the forces mentioned are small. (4) Depends
upon what port you wish to go to. .. .P.M.G.: The
N. Moratorium Act allows a mortgagee to com-
mence an action for breach of a covenant for the
insurance or maintenance of the mortgage property.
. ...C.J.C.: Send them to us and we will have
them criticised in detail for you... . J.J.H.: Require
more particulars as to what you were doing and what
happened. .. .C.M.T.: (1) Paterson, Laing and Bruce,
Wy nyard- street, and J. Pierre Couve, 165 Castle -
reagli-street, Sydney; Meritex Underwear Co., Merry-
lands (N.S.W.). (2) A. E. Clarke, 82-84 Abercrombie-
street, and E. A. Jelfs and Sons, 342 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney. (3) Paterson, Laing and Bruce;
also Bond and Co.. 14 York-street, and Myart
Needlework Co., 46 Foster-street, Sydney... .A.S. :
Masochism is a condition of sexual perversion in
which a person derives pleasure from being dominated
or even cruelly treated; sadism one in which
pleasure is derived from the infliction of pain.
. ...E.8.8.: (1) No. It is made from parts of the
bodies of cattle, and tallow is not used. (2) Melt
together 37 parts of lead by weight and 63 parts of
tin. Measurements should be very exact. .. .F.H.:
The N.S.W. Govt. Entomologist states that the cactus'
has been attacked by a parasitic fungus, and not
cochineal.... H.R.8.: From Buckley, an escaped
convict, who lived for 32 years as a member of a
tribe of Vic. natives and was finally rescued by John
Batman... .P.R.: Write British Consul-General,
Tananarive, Madagascar ... .J.D.P.: “Choice Ferns
for Amateurs,” by G. Schneider, 6s. 6d., Robertson
and Mullens, Melbourne.—H.H.R.: Can’t advise
without personal diagnosis, beyond suggesting com-
plete rest in bed‘for a few days... .H. 8.: Plastic
surgery has advanced considerably since the war, and
it is probable a specialist could help you. If you
cannot afford private treatment, see the superin-
tendent of Brisbane. Hospital... .M.H.: A few hair-
dressers in Sydney do this sort of work, but its
efficiency and permanency is doubtful... .C.W.: No
information concerning this type of vacuum cleaner
is obtainable... .J. A.H.: Yes... .E.A.A.: True
sandalwood does not exist in marketable quantities
in N.S.W. Write to the Conservator of Forests,
Perth, W.A H.T.G.J.: Flight-Lieut. J. N. Booth-
man was born at Harrow, England in 1901....
R.W.L.: Junee is an abo. word meaning “speak to
me”..,,F.K.: The Royal Shipwreck Relief and
Humane Society of N.S.W. affords relief to distressed
seamen and their dependants and to crews and
necessitous passengers of vessels wrecked in N.S.W.
waters. It is maintained by public subscription,
without subsidy from the State... .T.L.G.: You will
not be released from your liability as a mortgagor
if the co. goes into liquidation. .. .B.C.C. : The
N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act does not apply to
interest payable to the Crown.... S.G.: The
Schneider Cup was presented in 1912 to the
Aero Club of France by Jacques Schneider, a French
sportsman and aviator, with a view to developing
high-speed seaplanes... .S.P.M.: Call on the New
Guinea Trade Agent, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney... .W.K.: Privy Councillors in
Australia are Gov.-Gen. Isaacs, S. M. Bruce, Joseph
Cook, W. M. Hughes, Adrian Knox, G. F. Pearce, W.
A. Watt, Earle Page and J. H. Soullin C.V.S.:
Write Royal Meteorological Society, 49 Cromwell-road ;
Royal Geographical Society, Kensington—both
London, 5.W.7 (Many others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G.M. Turnbull
Synopsis: Jim Huntley, Resident
Magistrate at Aikoroa, Papua, return-
ing to his post after sick leave,
has for a fellow-passenger Marian
Durrant, whom he had known as a
small child. She had been brought up
“down south,” and is now paying a
surprise visit, to her father. Another
voyager is Freddie Chisholm, going to
Huntley's division as assistant. Hunt-
ley, who has fallen in love icith the
girl, is alarmed. Always Charlie
Durrant had put his daughter off
coming to Aikoroa, where he, too, lived
and had his plantation ( Nataroa ).
The R.M. is secretly relieved when,
arriving at Baramata, he finds that the
Maipua is laid up, and that Marian
cannot go on to 'Nataroa for ten days
at least. He arranges for her to stay
with Marchmont, another R.M., and his
wife. While Huntley is at the port a
man named Calvert, whom lie dislikes,
tries to get. an interview with Marianj
hut Huntley repulses him. In Aikoroa,
meantime, the natives are getting out
of hand. Accompanied by Chisholm,
Huntley, with a letter for her father
from Marian, arrives in the Govern-
ment launch, and to the great relief
of Sergeant Gibara, Kiwai veteran of
many patrols, takes over.
CHAPTER VII.
“ r T' , HAT bird,” Mr. Patrol-officer Chis-
holm declared, “could give points to
a Tommy sergeant-major.”
He was watching with a faintly perplexed
expression Sergeant Gibara drilling the
detachment.
“Squ-a-ad! Sholler arms! Lite torn!
Kweek ma’ash!”
Gibara’s full-throated commands cut
through the air like the crack of a rifle; one
could feel the pride in his voice. The bare
feet of the police made no sound on the
close-cropped buffalo grass of the parade-
ground, green and lush in the naked sun.
“He’s a great old chap,” Huntley returned,
“a highly-trained and efficient non-com.
whose courage and devotion you may de-
pend upon, Chisholm. You’ll go through
some sticky times with the police in the
near future if the Aikoroa Division lives up
to its reputation. Get an eyefull of ’em.”
He was regarding Chisholm with a measur-
ing eye, appraising him, analysing him as
he had done many times before. Huntley
had very decided opinions on the subject of
irresponsible lads in positions of authority
—the “small fella Governments” of the
coastal tribes—to whom natives were “nig-
gers,” “thinking black” meant making free
with the women, and who considered that
the first duty of an armed constable was
to clean his master’s boots. Moreover, he
distrusted Chisholm’s wardrobe.
The detachment came swinging by with
the precision of infantry of the line.
“Kiwais, Gosiagos, Orakaivas,” Huntley
continued. “Good old fighting stock from
the Mambare, ex-headhunters from the
Bamu, tough mountain men and cut-throats
from the ends of New Guinea—all dislik-
ing one another with great cordiality out
of uniform, but policemen first, last and all
the time.”
A barrage of staccato commands issued
from Gibara’s lips. The brass-shod butts
of twenty carbines thudded on the soft turf,
twenty brown faces became wooden masks,
twenty brown bodies became ramrods.
Gibara tucked his stick under his arm and
whirled on his heel in a perfectly-timed
salute. Instinctively Chisholm came to
attention as the tips of his fingers touched
the brim of his helmet. Huntley smiled.
“He’ll do, I fancy,” he murmured. Then,
aloud: “Dismiss the men, Sergeant. I want
to talk to you.”
The police swaggered off with carbines
slung. Gibara returned to the two white
men, and, saluting briskly, stood waiting.
“Well, Sergeant,” Huntley said. He
spoke in “pidgin” for Chisholm’s benefit.
“Wife b’long you all right? Piccaninnies
all right?” .
There was a sudden brief widening of
Gibara’s eyes. The rigid lines about his
mouth relaxed.
“He all right, sah; altogether everybody
all right.”
“Fine!” Huntley returned. “When you
finish your kaikai, come up to the office.
You-me go walk-about l’il bit after kaikai.
Carry on. Sergeant.”
A mantle of silence descended upon Hunt-
ley as they strolled back to the residency.
Abruptly Chisholm broke the thread of
his reflections. “What the dickens is the
trouble here, R.M.?”
“Trouble?” Huntley’s short laugh sounded
a little forced. He was distinctly uneasy.
“There’s no trouble here to speak of,
Chisholm.”
“No?” Chisholm sceptically replied. “I
thought perhaps there might be. I’ve been
listening to Gibara blackguarding the police,
likening them to cook-boys and promising
them a juicy time if they let the Gava-
mani down. Besides, Boardman is obviously
badly rattled. He confided to me that he
had the breeze up.” ■. . . .._
“Oh, that!” Huntley interjected. I
rather like little Boardman; but with his
temperament and cast of mind ho
shrugged his shoulders. “I don’t attach any
particular importance to Boardman’s 'strike,
as he calls it. As for Sergeant Gibara, the
old chap has had a shock. His motto is
the 'Government right or wrong,’ and his
pride has received a rude jar.” Huntley
looked fixedly, speculatively at Chisholm.
“I’m concerned, if you must know, about
your little playmate Marian Durrant.”
Chisholm’s face expressed polite aston-
ishment at the sudden change of subject.
He gave a short, self-conscious laugh.
“Nice kid,” he conceded. He glanced
quickly at Huntley and as quickly averted
his head. “I’m rather keen to meet her
pater. The old lad is a bit of a mystery,
isn’t he?”
But Huntley returned no answer.
The Namodia, bearing Boardman away
from Aikoroa, was chugging through the
passage when Huntley and Sergeant Gibara
set out on their “l’il bit walk-about.” Chis-
holm was left in possession of the office.
He was studying Volume I of the Papuan
Laws and Ordinances with undisguised dis-
taste. .
Huntley, pulling on his pipe, saw beauty
in riotous profusion all about him. To the
right was the lagoon—azure, sparkling—and,
beyond, high-crested, curling rollers broke
and boiled on the reef. To the left the
vivid green jungle rampart glistened with
sunlight, and in the background the moun-
tain-tops stood out in solemn majesty.
Overhead, in a sky intensely blue, the after-
noon sun poured down a searing flood of
heat. Flamboyant orchids hung from the
forest trees, livid ferns and mottle-leaved
creepers clung to the branches, and, com-
mingled with the sour stench of vegetation
in decay, were sweet and luring perfumes
from flowering shrubs. Bellbirds called,
cockatoos screeched, insects thrummed, and
the reverberating boom of the surf sounded
like the rumbling of distant drums.
The lure of New Guinea took hold of
Huntley, stirring the secret springs of his
soul.
Presently Sergeant Gibara moved up.
“We go to Aikoroa, Taubada?” he politely
inquired in Motuan.
“To Aikoroa first, Sergeant,” Huntley told
him; “and then—beyond.”
“It is good, Taubada,” Gibara grunted
with great satisfaction. “Too long have
these misbegotten sons of swamp-frogs hum-
bugged the Gavamani.”
A sinuous golden-brown something with
a speckled belly writhed across the track,
hissing faintly. Huntley stepped quickly
aside, and the butt of Gibara’s carbine
thudded.
Ahead, like some fabulous monster of the
deep, washed up by the tide, the huge dubu
—the long-house—of Aikoroa sprawled. on
crazy stilts a little distance above high-
water-mark. On either hand the lesser huts
of the village showed their dun-colored,
high-peaked roofs. The smoke of fires hung
tenuously in the air, making an indigo haze
against green foliage, and the clamorous
cries of egg-brown children, the frenzied
yapping of mongrel dogs and the grunting
of pigs innumerable told Huntley that the
noonday siesta was over.
There were grass-kirtled women laboring
patiently in the gardens that fringed the
village clearing. Not for them the midday
rest. They straightened their bent backs
as Huntley and the sergeant drew abreast
and gave them “Gfpod-day” shyly.
One old crone with pendulous, shrunken
breasts scuttled into the undergrowth and
screamed out: “Ho, Kadoa! Hear me,
Kadoa! Here is the Gavamani and the pig
of a Kiwai sergeant.”
Instantly the shrill yells of the village
urchins died down. The hoarse voices of
men vied with the yelping dogs.
Huntley and Sergeant Gibara entered
Aikoroa. .
On the narrow platform m front of the
long-house the head men of the village
squatted on their haunches, chewing betel-
nut and inhaling acrid tobacco from reeking
bamboo pipes. They elevated their eye-
brows and made clucking noises expressive
of astonishment when they recognised Hunt-
ley. It was plain that his appearance on
the scene was as unexpected as it was
unwelcome.
Huntley looked about him with cold dis-
taste. The straggling street was overgrown
with rank grass and littered with dead leaves,
filth and garbage, over which mangy curs
of fearful breed fought with the scavenger
pigs. There were gaping holes in the nipa-
thatched roof of the rest-house, a thick
yellow scum on the seepage that supplied
Aikoroa with water, and there was a taint
in the air and a horrible buzzing of flies
that spoke of forbidden burial customs
lafely revived.
The headmen nudged one another un-
easily, rattling limesticks in their gourds
and grinning with a kind of futile bravado
that was clearly assumed.
Huntley held his nose, and, turning, faced
the men on the platform.
“So,” he remarked pleasantly, “because one
man falls sick, does then the Gavamani die?
Men say that the old days have come back
to Aikoroa, and my eyes and my nose tell
me that perhaps men speak truly.”
A heavily built, truculent-looking man in
a tattered loincloth and the. remnants of
an ancient dress vest gave a thin, cackling
laugh, instantly suppressed.
“True, Taubada,” he began. “Men, in-
deed, speak”
“First you will stand on your feet when
the Gavamani speaks,” Huntley reminded
him in an easy voice. His hand shot out
like lightning, he gripped the totally un-
prepared native by the ankle and jerked
him violently to the ground. His friends
drew deep breaths and rose as one man.
The native who had aroused Huntley’s ire
was bending low, fingering his person all
over with tender, exploring hands. Ser-
geant Gibara applied a hearty and well-
directed kick to the spot likely to do most
good.
“The Gavamani would have words with
you. Kadoa,” he rasped. “Stand up!
“What manner of village constable have
you become in a short two-three moons,
Kadoa?” Huntley inquired, still in a cool,
conversational voice. “Do your hands itch
for the caress of a hammer-handle? And
does your belly crave to make a few large
stones into many small ones?”
A dead silence fell upon Kadoa’s cronies.
Nervously they wet their betel-stained lips,
and their bodies went suddenly limp. Kadoa
was badly shaken, spiritually and bodily.
His limbs trembled under him and his lips
twitched.
Huntley’s voice changed subtly. His
eyes narrowed, became hard, menacing. Ihe
village headmen winced.
“Take off those rags, oh, bush pig with
the brain of a toad!” Huntley blazed. “Get
into the clothes proper to your office; but
first hear my words.”
Agape with wonder, the whole village-
men, women and children—gathered round
the long-house. They hung fearfully
upon Huntley’s words, casting terrified
glances at Gibara, and shuddering at the
indignity that had been put upon the vil-
lage constable. Huntley produced a note-
book and made a careful entry.
“In the space of—let me see—twelve
sleeps,” he declared, “I shall return to
Aikoroa bringing many police and a store of
handcuffs. .. .1 lied. I shall bring one man
only to carry the black box provided for
the safe-keeping of the Gavamani tax-
money.”
There arose a murmur of dissent from
the crowd. Gibara raised his carbine and
the murmur subsided.
“See to it, Kadoa, that the village is
made clean against my coming, and the
rest-house made fit for my occupation. See
to it, also, that the body of him who is
dead is removed forthwith to the sleeping-
place beyond the village and there buried
deep in the earth according to the law.”
He closed his notebook with a snap.
“Vaedaeni! [lt is finished!]” He turned
on his heel. “Come. Sergeant, my tongue
is diy from much talking.”
Breathing deep of the drowsy, incense-
laden air, Huntley strode along the track.
But, as he drew near to his real destination,
his feet began to drag. He was aware that
it was requiring an effort to continue. He
was tempted to obey the impulse of his
own desire and return forthwith to the
station. Then, suddenly, irrelevantly, came
a vision of Marian Durrant standing straight
and slim on Marchmont’s verandah, her
arm clasping Jane Marchmont’s waist, her
eyes clear and trustful and happy. _
.“My love to daddy,” she had said, “and
give him a good report of me.” Huntley
sighed. Close under his heart was a vague,
nagging pain; in his soul was deadness.
The shore line took a sudden dip inland,
forming a little cove, a scarcely-perceived
indentation in the gracious sixty-mile sweep-
ing curve of Aikoroa Bay. There was a
smart-looking, green-painted auxiliary ketch
anchored out, bowing and curtseying to the
lazy lilt of the ground swell. A native hung
indolently over the taffrail trilling on a tin-
whistle the half-dozen monotonous, mourn-
ful notes dear to Papuan musicians.
For a second Huntley stared at the vessel.
“That is the Lotus, Sergeant, is it not?”
he asked.
“Yessah,” Gibara answered. “He Lotus,
sah: b’long Mis’ Calvert, sah.”
Huntley’s mouth hardened. His face was
thoughtful, frowning, as he resumed his even
stride.
The track petered out. They were sink-
ing ankle deep into powdered coral sand
that scintillated like ground glass in the
fierce sunlight. The boom of the surf came
faintly, merged, now, with the lip-lap of
wavelets on the beach. Huntley pressed
forward. An incongruous blur of red peeped
un behind a waving mass of palm-fronds.
He came to a rickety gate where a flower-
ing milk-tree exhaled an exotic welcome.
Huntley milled up.
It was like a deserted house, it was so
gaunt, neglected, dilapidated. The spindly
piles, wreathed in dank creepers, seemed to
sag forlornly under their loads; rotting fibre-
plaited sun-blinds ineffectively screened the
verandah; patches of blistered paint made
livid blotches on the walls; the roof was
pitted with innumerable rust-holes, the
spouting had broken away from the eaves.
The garden was an overgrown wilderness
smothered in jungle growth. Blossoming
creepers waved blood-red withes to the
breezes; giant tree-ferns, slender palms
choked by parasitic growth, hung disher elled
fronds like the pinions of huge, obscene
birds. , . ...
Huntley hesitated. Then he shrugged Ins
shoulders, kicked open the gate and came
to the rotting steps.
A foot scraped on the floor, a chair
creaked. Huntley gingerly mounted to the
verandah. .
“You made a damned quick trip, Cal-
vert.” There was a faint note of scorn in
Huntley’s voice. “You seem determined
to keep well in the picture. Where is—stop
craning and twisting your neck, man; Miss
Durrant is not with me. Where is Charlie .
A sour smile flickered on Calvert’s swarthy
face “This is an unlooked-for pleasure,
Huntley. Charlie will be delighted. To
what are we indebted”
“Where is he?” Huntley brusquely de-
manded.
Calvert’s right eyelid flickered. His grin
was openly derisive. He nodded towards a
door that hung drunkenly on one rusty
hinge, and his shoulders moved in an elo-
quent shrug.
Huntley moved swiftly to .the door. Ihe
sagging floor-boards creaked under the
weight of his body. He straightened the
door with a shoulder and swung it back
upon its protesting hinge.
Unconsciously he held his breath. Under
a soiled and mildewed mosquito-curtain a
sleeping man lay stretched upon a camp
stretcher—an old man with a few wisps o!
grey hair straggling across a bald head. A
thin moustache drooped over a sagging
mouth; his skin was yellow, pouched,
blotchy; he was breathing noisily, and,
mingled with the sour odor of sweat-
soaked clothing, was a smell pungent, reek-
ing, unmistakable.
Marian Durrant’s father was stupidly
drunk.
CHAPTER VIII.
Huntley stood staring down at the sodden
ruin of the man who was Marian Durrant s
father and a sick hopelessness flooded his
heart. His mind leapt back over the years.
He saw Durrant in the full vigor of early
middle-age. Frame of an athlete, heavy-
muscled, straight-backed, clear-eyed. A
handsome fellow he had been—charming,
whimsical, manly—with yet a hint of that
diablerie in his make-up that,, in the end.
had made of him “Nataroa Charlie” of
Aikoroa Bay.
Vividly he recalled the form and. features
of Marian’s mother on her last visit to the
residency when that unlovely barn, reeking
of new paint, had been the last word m
Papuan domestic architecture. It was as if
he had seen her only yesterday, the gap
of time was so magically bridged. Radiant
she had been, ardently in love with
her gay and reckless husband. Jim Hunt-
ley sat dully on the edge of the unclean
stretcher disinterring the dead bones of
the dead past. He was hearing Jane March-
mont’s voice now: “Look after the kiddie,
Jim. It’s a bad case—blackwater. Little
Marian will be all right with you? Good
lad, Jim!” Soon after had followed his
transfer to the Ivumusi Division, to the
Mambare, Daru and the West, followed by
four grim years in France when the world
went mad. Since then he had been absorbed
wholly by the exigencies of his career.
Vague rumors had come to him concerning
Charlie Durrant. How the loss of his wife
had rent his world asunder; but not until
Huntley had returned to Aikoroa as R-M.
of the Division had he known what the
insatiable years—and New Guinea —had
done to his old friend.
Subconsciously he listened to the com-
plaint of the rising trade-wind in the palms
the mutter of the surf, the soughing of
the lagoon waters on the beach, while he
brooded over the unconscious drunkard on
the stretcher. Suddenly a fury took posses-
sion of him. He .flung out of the bedroom
on to the verandah. _ ,
Calvert was seated at a termite-riddled
table that held an uncorked bottle and some
tin pannikins. He was sucking the stub ol
a pencil, studying an open notebook. He
looked up at Huntley and yawned with
frank and ostentatious boredom.
“Well; Huntley?” he inquired. Satis-
fied?” , ,
A swift access of rage swept througn
Huntley. “You damned sweep!” he blazed.
“I’m on to your game. Isn’t this your work.
Didn’t you expect the old man’s daughter
to be with me?” ,„ ,
“Come, come, my good policeman! You
should learn to control your feelings. Have
a drink? A whisky and water—lukewarm.
I’m afraid.” . , . .. r
Huntley was conscious of a feeling oi
shame because of the rage that had engul e
him In a moment he was himself again.
“I’m wise to you, Calvert. For years
you’ve been battening on the old man,
dragging him down, keeping him down,
pouring the booze into him, while the fin »
little property on the coast goes to rack
an “ Don’t concern yourself unduly about
the plantation, Huntley,” Calvert interjected
briskly. “Nataroa is in splendid order, i
give you my word. It m still the finest
property on the coast. V' hat 1 you •
Impatiently Huntley shook h •
“You know damned well that I don tdr
with you—or the likes of you. -p^e
Calvert’s face turned a dull ied.
muscles of his lips twitched.
"What the devil d re,2v 'commanded.
“You may go now, Huntley


FsYSssssssyysss/sSj
••• • •
vyivvwXw^>^>^>>>>>>>>X<«x^<<<*>>>xOO<*VyvvwwvwwwvwwwQ'
iilii*iiai«wswi»»i*** Br * *
* • P :*
|i|l|i
mmm
m
.
§n
> > on the
magnificent
Mlie once-in-a-year opportunity
to voyage to
AMERICA
MALOLO
Sailing from SYDNEY November 26th
Returning from her world renowned cruise
“Round the Pacific” homeward bound for
San Francisco, she will provide as REGULAR
service, a gala voyage to San Francisco via
Auckland, Suva, Pago Pago and Hawaii, for
just this one trip.
Elegance, that challenges description. Service,
that is a distinguished art... and the cruise
spirit of gaiety as a background for every
golden hour of the distinguished voyage. And
all this is yours, at regular fares, without pre-
mium. A two-day stop at Auckland, which
includes for cruise members a special excur-
sion to Rotorua, New Zealand’s famous
geyserland. A delightful visit at Suva, another
at Pago Pago and an entire day at Honolulu
and Waikiki.
You may include at slight additional cost all
these specially arranged events, and arrive in
San Francisco December 16 .. .just 20 days
after sailing from Sydney! An unsurpassed
combination of speed, luxury, thrilling en-
joyment.
Between ports, what gala intervals of ocean
travel. The “Malolo’s” lounges, ballroom and
dining salon are spaciously regal...her state-
rooms perfectly appointed and airily cool.
With talking pictures and daily newspaper...
swimming...clay pigeon shooting...deck sports,
masquerades and concerts ... each day is a
round of diversions!
Choose this cool route...this splendid ship...
this special voyage...to the scenic marvels that
lead to America.
May we give you all particulars ... by mail or
in person?
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge St., Sydney Tel. B 7981 -3
MO-8A
The other lifted a shoulder, but his eyes
were ablaze. “Forgive me if I’rn dense,
Huntley,” he spat. “I’m afraid I don’t
get you, quite.”
“I’m sorry,” Huntley went on calmly, “to
inconvenience you; but”—he pointed to the
Lotus—“there’s your hooker. Get aboard
—at once.”
The gleam of white teeth was visible
between Calvert’s lips. He rose slowly and
deliberately.
“Damn your insolence!” he snarled.
“Who the hell are you to order me about
like a nigger? Why should I submit to
your bounce and bluster?”
“For your health’s sake,” Huntley told
him levelly. “It would afford me the most
exquisite pleasure to throw you down the
steps. On your way, Calvert!”
There was a quick indrawing of breath
from Calvert. Then he shrugged his
shoulders very slightly.
“Talk’s cheap,” he retorted airily. “I
shall certainly acquaint your bosses at Port
Moresby with”
“Are you going?”—this blandly from
Huntley.
“Naturally,” Calvert picked up his helmet.
"The single fact I’m considering now is
that your hulking nigger henchman gives
you an advantage against which it would
be folly for me to” he spread out his
hands in a gesture of deprecation, grinned
with bland superiority, and stepped out into
die sunshine.
Huntley stood watching him as he walked
jauntily to the landing. He heard him sing
out for the dinghy and saw him being rowed
to his ship.
Then, wearily, he sat down—to wait.
A sudden sound of voices from some-
where in the rear brought him up sharply.
Sergeant Gibara, who had been enjoying a
surreptitious betel-nut in the garden, gave
a cough.
“Plenty people stop ’long kitchen, sah,”
he volunteered.
Huntley decided to make a tour of in-
spection. “Come up, Sergeant,” he called.
And together they set forth.
The bungalow consisted of two rooms sur-
rounded by a broad verandah, in each
corner of which additional rooms had been
built. Huntley knew despondency as he
went from room to room. The place was in
a state of most appalling squalor. Every-
where was broken furniture, discarded
utensils, tattered curtains, rotting floor-
coverings. There were the remains of a
once-handsome wardrobe, one fragment of
tarnished mirror still clinging to its frame;
ant-eaten tables with their battered legs
jambed into empty meat-tins to combat
the encroaching swarms of termites; a chest-
of-drawers supported on a packing-case,
rusty iron bedsteads heaped with moth-
eaten blankets, while, over all, like the
breath of sin, brooded the dank odor of dirt
and neglect and decay.
There were no books. This man who
had quoted verse, talked philosophy; who
had kept abreast of modern thought and
the scientific trend of the day! No books!
Huntley shivered.
“A fitting home for little Maid Marian!”
he muttered. _ It was ghastly to think of
her. even existing in such a kennel.
They reached the kitchen. From behind
the closed doors came a subdued murmur
of voices. Huntley knocked. There was a
dead silence. Then a board creaked, the
floor shook a little and there was the jiggle
of a key followed by the click of a turning
lock. Huntley frowned. Gibara’s face held
a curious intentness, and his black eyes
shot fire.
“Go ahead, Sergeant,” Huntley said.
Without the slightest hesitation Gibara
swung his carbine, and, with a mighty blow,
smashed in the flimsy matchwood door.
There came a sort of gasp as though a
quick puff of wind had rustled a palm-top;
then silence that could almost be felt.
The kitchen shutter was closed. The
fumes of trade tobacco hung heavy in the
air, mingled with the tang of betel-nut
and the raw reek of unwashed native.
Dimly Huntley discerned the figures of four
people squatting on the floor. A baby
wailed. Then a voice demanded:
“Is this then the law, Taubada?”
Huntley started. It was a woman’s voice,
shrill, excited. Inwardly he groaned. .
“I am the law,” he tersely answered.
“Ia!” came another voice, the husky
voice of a man not wholly at his ease. “It
is indeed the law; here is Mis’ Huntley
himself!”
Gibara had swaggered unconcernedly
into the room. He was fumbling with the
catch of the shutter. He uttered an im-
patient grunt, his carbine crashed again,
and the kitchen was flooded with light.
Huntley peered within. The natives had
risen. They stood shifting uneasily on their
feet, staring at him in dazed fashion. Two
were women. Huntley looked them over
with a cold eye. One was past the first
blush of youth. She was garbed in a snape-
less “Mother Hubbard” of doubtful cleanli-
ness which dragged loosely about her thick
ankles. Fat, drab, blowsy, every line of
her proclaimed to Huntley’s discerning eye
the native girl become a white man’s
“woman.” His glance turned to her com-
panion. A nut-brown infant, wearing not a
vestige of clothing, straddled her hip.
There was a sensation in Huntley’s stomach
that was akin to physical nausea. Was this
to be Marian’s crowning humiliation? For
the infant which eyed him so solemnly was
indubitably of mixed blood.
He found himself looking anew at the
girl, for a girl she was, young and lissome; |
thin-lipped, light-skinned. A one-piece gar-
ment that reached barely to her knees
revealed rather than hid the figure of a
wood-nymph; but her eyes, black, liquid,
were the eyes of a wanton. A scarlet
hibiscus bloom thrust carelessly through the
pierced lobe of her ear showed like a splash
of blood against the soft duskiness of her
skin; in her frizzy hair was a star-shaped
flower of virginal whiteness, and a necklet
of pale grey Job’s tears set off the enticing
curve of her throat.
Huntley’s flickering glance became an
intent stare. He was gazing into the slumb-
rous orbs that were her eyes; at the slim
shapeliness of a form that was sheer beauty.
Involuntarily he drew in his breath.
“Who the devil are you?” he heard him-
self harshly demanding.
Surprisingly the girl lowered her eyes.
She dug her toes into the dirt-filled crevices
in the floor and wriggled in horrible embar-
rassment.
“She is Saroni, Taubada,” Gibara told
him. “Daughter of”
“What is she doing here—in this house?”
There was a note of repression in Huntley’s
voice.
“You no savee, sah?” Gibara began
volubly. “Saroni she girl b’long—b’long”
“Whom?” Huntley rasped.
“Mis’ Calvert, sah. You no savee, sah?”
“Ah!” breathed Huntley in fervent relief.
He flicked another glance at Saroni. A
stain of color began to mantle her cheeks.
Then she smiled at Huntley enigmatically.
Resolutely Huntley turned away his head.
“Mis’ Calvert has returned to the Lotus,”
he said coldly. “It is my order, Saroni,
that you go aboard also.”
He dismissed her with a quick gesture,
then swung round to the other woman,
who had been watching in silence.
“And you?” he demanded curtly.
The woman’s fat, good-natured face
creased in a wide grin. She wiped a smear
of betel-juice that trickled from the corner
of her mouth and chuckled gleefully.
“Me, Taubada?” she answered in “pidgin.”
“Me Mrs. Dullanti, Taubada.”
“The devil you are!” Huntley returned
grimly. “Then to-morrow you will come
to the station, when money shall be paid to
you. In the meantime it is my order that
you leave this house—now.”
“But, Taubada,” the fat lady objected,
“I’ve bin stop long time ’long Sali. Long
time, Taubada. Who look out ’long him
s’pose I go village? Who cook’m kaikai?
Who”-
“It is finished, Katuna,” Gibara admon-
ished her. “You, who are a woman of much
wisdom, know that it is finished when the
Gavamani talks.”
“I bin finish ’long time,” Katuna cheer-
fully admitted. “All time Sali kaikai wisiki.
All time head b’long him no good. All
time he humbug.”
“Vaedaeni!” Huntley snapped. “To-
morrow we talk about these things.”
“How much money you”
“Be off, woman! To-morrow, I said.”
And, nothing abashed, Katuna waddled
away.
Huntley felt Sergeant Gibara pulling on
his jacket-sleeve.
“There is one here, Taubada,” he said
with immense respect, “who has much skill
in pourri-pourri [sorcery].” He was pointing
half fearfully, half contemptuously, at a
lean, rangy, one-eyed man of unspeakably
villainous aspect, who leaned in an attitude
of careless indifference against the wall.
He stirred at Gibara’s words, lifting his head
and thrusting it forward like a snake about
to strike.
“Maragi, sah,” the sergeant continued.
He seemed tremendously impressed.
“Maragi the pourri-pourri tauna [sorcerer].
Maragi of the One Eye.”
An evil grin flickered over Maragi’s face.
There was a netted bag of exquisite crafts-
manship slung across his shoulders contain-
ing, as Huntley well knew, the charms, the
spells, the tools of his unholy trade. A
mummified infant’s hand hung on a string
round his neck; a lime-gourd stoppered
with the mounted and polished tusk of the
father of all wild boars dangled on his hip,
and a tapa-cloth girdle from the north was
belted round his loins.
Huntley needed no introduction to Mar-
agi of the One Eye. He was a very puis-
sant, very cunning sorcerer. By the casting
of spells and the muttering of incantations,
he could blight men’s gardens and make
their wives unfaithful; he could control the
elements, bend the powers of good and evil,
life and death to his will; and, by playing
on the credulity of the villagers, and judi-
ciously blending blackmail, intimidation and
extortion with the hocus-pocus of his trade,
he had contrived to make himself a power
in the land and a thorn in the flesh of the
district magistrate.
Huntley knew Maragi of the One Eye for
a thoroughly bad hat.
(To bc continued next week.)


SUPER SHI PS't ATLANTIC
n
K
ill
C.P.K. Steamers take
the sheltered St. Law-
rence seaway, and cut
two days off the open
Atlantic crossing.
CATERING to those who demand per-
fection in ocean travel, the Canadian
Pacific Fleet of Empress, Duchess and
“M” Class Steamers provide service,
comforts and pleasures of a new order.
On any of these ocean-going palaces
Australia to England travellers learn
how complete, reliable and delightful are
C.P.R. travel arrangements. Illustrated
literature sent free on request
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. 5/31.2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS • STEAMERS • HOTELS
Dine World's Greatest Drove! System
YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO .
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl
ď
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The opening of the Y.A.T.C. spring meet-
ing at Caulfield last Saturday was memor-
able. Ammon Ra added to his string of
tliree-year-old triumphs by capturing the
Guineas, for which he started at 6 to 4 on.
There were plenty of thrills in the race.
At one stage the supporters of Ammon Ra
became apprehensive, for, with Ibrani and
Gallantic sprinting for all they were worth,
the favorite got buried in the ruck. How-
ever, Maurice McCarten took his mount to
the outside at the half-way stage. Ammon
Ra smothered Ibrani (who snuffed out like
a candle), brought Gallantic to the whip
when they turned for home, and then drew
away, winning by 34 lengths from Middle
Watch (100 to 1), with Viol d’Amour a
length further away.
The first half-mile of the Guineas occu-
pied only 48|sec. It took 50sec. to run the
final four furlongs and lmin. 14sec. for the
last six. Having been far back in the field,
Ammon Ra must have covered the conclud-
ing five furlongs at exceptional speed. He
won with a lot in hand, yet lowered the
Guineas record by l|sec. and took half a
second off Highland’s course record for a
mile on a track that, because of the previous
day’s rain, could not have been very favorable
for time-making. Chatham travelled nicely
up to four furlongs from home, and was
ahead of Ammon Ra at that stage; but when
the real struggle began he cracked up and
Jim Munro wisely ceased from pressing the
colt. Obviously Chatham was deficient in
condition, and it may be impossible to string
him up properly for the Victoria Derby and
Melbourne Cup. At Flemington a better
display may be given by Viol d’Amour. who
began slowly but finished strongly. Middle
Watch won his division of the V.R.C. Mari-
byrnong Trial Stakes last season, and finished
Bert : *How do vou like my new
NUMBER PLATE, GtEeT?’ 1 '
GeRT‘. *IS IT NECESSARV ?"
Bert*/'Of course it is . Every
HAS TO have h\s car. registered''
Sert , / / Arent VOU afraid of BEIHQ
HAD up FOR FALSE PRETENCES f
second to Starstone in the Debutant Stakes.
He belongs to J. S. Feehan, of the V.R.C.
committee, and is a stable companion of
Shadow King. This son of The Night
Patrol has begun to fulfil early promise. Old
Ming finished in advance of Stephen, but
the latter may be more at home on the
Flemington galloping stretches.
Waterline’s inability to gain a place in
the Caulfield Stakes indicates either that
“S. A. Rawdon’s” gelding has gone to pieces
or that he was suffering from another attack
of rheumatism. His owner was pessimistic
before the race, but punters would not hear
of Waterline being beaten in such a field at
weight-for-age. Munro got him away splen-
didly, but Waterline could not hold his posi-
tion. Half a mile from home, however, he
hit the front, and his backers became jubi-
lant. The suddenness with which Waterline
gained control was equalled by the preci-
pitancy of his retreat. At the turn he was
in hopeless trouble.
Though beaten by Hellenist for second
honors in the Caulfield Stakes, which Cim-
brian won, Vigne did everything that his
trainer could have expected of him. In the
Caulfield Cup, Cimbrian will have to carry
8.13 and Hellenist 9.0, whereas Vigne will
drop from 9.1 to 7.5. Last Saturday Cim-
brian had 9.4 and Hellenist 9.1. On these
figures Cimbrian must be preferred to Hel-
lenist, but Vigne should hold both of them
very safe. Ashley Reed did not knock the
Sydney horse about in the Stakes, and the
gallop would do Vigne a power of good. His
formidable rival Royal Barb lost caste by
finishing last in the Herbert Power Handi-
cap, for which he was a red-hot favorite.
What caused Royal Barb to drop out three
furlongs from home, after looking all over a
winner, is mysterious. He stumbled when
passing the judge’s box, and . Maurice
McCarten pulled the gelding up in a few
strides. McCarten appeared to share the
opinion of onlookers that his mount had
broken down, but Royal Barb walked away
from the enclosure all right, and the trainer
reported that nothing was amiss, so far as
he could discern.
The Herbert Power Handicap form points
to Shadow King being hard to beat in the
Caulfield Cup. Just when Dark Man seemed
to have the race in his keeping, the Comedy
King gelding shot past him and came on to
win by no less than lengths. Dark Man
is owned by Eric Connolly, who won the
A.J.C. Metropolitan four years ago with
imported Murillo. On several occasions
“Con” has vainly tried to land a Caulfield
Cup. The nearest he got was second (to
Aurifer) with Anna Carlovna in 1913.
Shadow King captured the Moonee Valley
Cup last year and was third in the Mel-
bourne Cup. Cimbrian (half-brother to
Heroic) was successful in the Williamstown
Cup of 1929, and is very fit just how. Prince
Dayton, who ran third to him on Saturday,
is noted for his finishing powers. Taking
one consideration with another the Caulfield
Cup ought to go to Vigne, who at 7.5 is
wonderfully well handicapped. Selections: —■
Caulfield Cup: Vigne 1, Shadow King 2,
Dark Man 3.
Wyuna Steeple: Tetcott; next, Isocrates.
Windsor Handicap: Baccha Sakao; next,
Limber Up.
* * # $
Taken out of the Caulfield Cup on Tues-
day, Phar Lap gave the public a superb
exhibition of galloping in the Craven Plate
at Randwick next day. With Pentlieus mak-
ing the running, the great chestnut lowered
the Australian record to 2min. 2-Jsee., and
yet lie wa.s never at his top—he never is
nowadays, having distinctly, improved with
age and looks, while there is no longer an
Amounis in the game to test his wonderful
speed. Pentheus did well to finish three
or four lengths ahead of Chide, granted that
Chide was one of the disappointments of
the round. Chide was the champion’s only
opponent in the Randwick Plate, and, hard
held nearly all the way, Pliar Lap traversed
two miles in omin. 31sec. There was no
betting in the ring on this race, and very
little (on a one-two basis) on the Craven
Plate.
The A.J.C. really needs a club horse for
w .f. a . events. A hardy old stager of the
First Acre and Don Moon type would help
t() ma t e up a field and swell tote receipts
(f rom w hich the club gets 34 p.c., less the
totc co .’ s cut ), and m j g h t pick up a bit of
p i acc mon ey now and then,
......
.
Pike, of course, was on Phar Lap, for
whom lie is the ideal horseman. Ridden hell-
for-leather, as he was in some of his tliree-
year-old races, Pliar Lap’s career would pro-
bably have been a short one; handled with
the idea of conserving his energies and win-
ning with a minimum of exertion, he may
last as long as Fuji San did, thanks so largely
to Pike. What a difference Pike makes in
the saddle was shown when Veilmond (7
to 4), a disappointment in less skilful hands,
won the Sydney Handicap, battling out a
keen finish with Loquacious, when in pre-
vious races he had apparently shirked his
iob. Raised 51b. (to 9st. 121 b.) in the
Waverley Handicap, defeated opponents get-
ting the benefit of a lower scale, Veilmond
(fours this time) repeated his triumph, after
Strength (12 to 1) had looked like doing
McShortodds another good turn. Salvador
was a great fancy for this race, but he
turned it up when looking very dangerous,
and was beaten for third place by First
Acre. He can gallop if he likes —his track
work at Warwick Farm was exceptionally
fast —but as far as couragu is concerned lie
is a very unworthy son of Rivoli and half-
brother to Eurythmie.
Pike won on another horse with a bad
reputation, Nut Cup, in the Suburban Han-
dicap. and with eight successes was the out-
standing jockey of the meetings. Merely be-
cause he was in the saddle Remora, who had
shown no form, was made favorite for the
Chester Handicap. The black mare never
flattered her supporters, victory falling to
Holdfast (S to 1), after a good race with
Burraeootboo (S to 1), who will yet justify
Albert Wood’s high opinion of him. Tom
Pinch and Bold Boy divided third place;
Gesture and Sun Eagle were close up.
With lOst. 41b. up, Holdfast covered six fur-
longs in lmin. 11-isec. His div., for 10s., on
the straight-out tote was £6 135.; on the
place machine, £2 15s. 6d. Two interest-
ing visitors from South Aus. were Merab
and Speedway. Merab —a very fine-looking
bay horse, by Two- —Liafil, who should make
a capital station sire—ran two close seconds,
and Speedway also got a second; but place-
money is not what it was in the boom days,
so the trip could not have been profitable.
While Chatham was disappointing his
admirers at Caulfield, Winooka, that other
son of Windbag, was showing great gallop-
ing ability in the Clibborn Stakes. Equal
favorite, at 5 to 4, with Flying Dave, he
gave that unruly but speedy animal 31b. and
a decisive beating, and left the mile behind
in lmin. 38scc. A bay with a glossy coat,
who carries his head high, as Windbag did,
he made a distinctly favorable impression,
and his bookmaker-owners, McDonald and
Matthews, could sell the colt for a good deal
more than the 1000 guineas they gave for
him in Queensland, where he raced as a
two-year-old. .People were glad to see Samuel
Hordern’s colors, white, red sash and pale-
blue cap, on a winner—Apparel, in the
Canonbury Stakes. He is a chestnut colt,
bred in Queensland, by Seremond —Merle’s
Robe, and likely to turn out useful. Apparel
was 10 to 1 in the ring; the tote paid £9
10s. for 10s. straight-out. Though the
attendance on all four days dropped 10,000
as compared with the last spring meetings,
tote receipts increased from £159,154 to
£175,482 —remarkable evidence of the popu-
larity of the win and place machines, for the
introduction of which this Page strove for
years. With a doubles tote added, and the
(Government’s extortionate 9 p.c. deduction
lowered to 5 p.c., there would be a still
greater improvement, together with less risk
to life and limb on the part of policemen
engaged in campaigns against starting-price
betting. The s.-p. fraternity would not lay
tote odds —except, perhaps, for a place—and
many of their customers would go where they
could get them.
* * *
For the City Tatt.’s meeting at Rand-
wick :
Flying Handicap: Holdfast; next, High
Disdain or Tom Pinch.
City Tatt.’s Handicap: Spearman; next,
Talkie.
Club Welter: Weotara; next, High Dis-
dain or Ring Roy.
* -if * *
King George’s Cup was competed for at
Perth, and it will decorate the sideboard of
J. W. Anderson, owner of Roseburn, the
rankest outsider to win the race. Taisho,
well known on Melbourne and Sydney
courses, was topweight and favorite, but was
beaten out of a place, Roseburn being fol-
lowed home, with only heads between, by
Stealth, a Night Raid gelding, and Beaunilly.
Roseburn, who is English-bred, being by
Roseland —Glory, was 50 to 1 with some
bookmakers —there are others, and not in
Perth alone, who wouldn’t lay 50 to 1 about
a bullock matched with Phar LUp. On the
10s. totes his divs. were £4B Bs. for a win
and £9 2s. for a place.
* * * *
S. Aus. form is good this year, and Adel-
aide people are confident that Opera King
will run a capital race in the Caulfield Cup,
in which he has Gst. 91b., even if he does
not equal the achievement of Wynette.
Carrying lib. more than the set Bst. 101 b.,
and ridden by the cross-country jockey
Fuller, Opera King made every post a
winner in the S. Aus. Derby at Morphett-
ville, and cut lAsec. off the race record,
which had stood at 2min. 36sec. Finishing
full of running, he was two lengths ahead
of Pezisana, who defeated the favorite, Ful-
mond, by a head. By Anton King—Opera
Bouffe, Opera King was bred by his owner,
J. M. Cummings.
* # *
The Queensland Guineas, which would have
been easy for Winooka, produced an excit-
ing finish. Beelbee, the 7-to-4 favorite, ran
an excellent race, but was beaten, a neck by
Lough Neagh (7 to 1), with Ocean Force
(4 to 1) only a head away. Lough Neagh
is a chestnut gelding by Bachelor’s Persse—
Terentia, owned by T. J. Brosuan; on a
fast track he ran the mile in lmin. 39sec.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Victor White found four pounds a
lot of weight to give away in his 12-round
contest with Ron Leonard (8.3) at Sydney
Stadium, but Australia’s flyweight cham-
pion fought liis heavier foe the whole way,
and a fierce finish got him a draw. Leonard's
longer reach beat White to the punch for
eight rounds. The lighter lad took charge
in the ninth, and afterwards did well, though
the decision was not unanimously endorsed
by the onlookers.
=i: * *
Aho. Alby Roberts (10. G) scored his
sixth successive win when he stopped New-
castle Wally Maher (10.12) in nine rounds
at Leichhardt last Saturday night,. and the
hard-punching native is now a serious con-
tender for the welterweight championship,
Maher attacked solidly at the start, but
Roberts came back briskly, and scored three
knockdowns in the deciding round, lie was
declared winner on a technical k.o.
_
tr .1 i
rootbrawl
The Vic. League grand final at the Melb.
c. G. on Saturday, which drew a “gate” of
£3llO from 00,712 persons, was less a spec-
tade f scientific football than an exhibi-
tion of fixed capped by flashes
° f a S id ™J SkT wot
down the Tigers. Its shepherding and scout-
jug round the crushes gained many points.
The Tigers seemed over-anxious, especially
in the second half; and only the solid play
of Geddes and Zscheck, at the centre, and
Murdoch O’Neill and McCormack further
back, saved them from complete t A
7 loS
1.. E£?oJ& ‘Sh/qE
were outstanding, but the whole team was
more even than Richmond’s. This is the
Pivot men’s second League premiership, the
first being gained in ho, though they topped
the tree many times m the days
before there was any League.


m
TH IS is the plug
that PYROX
THIS is the engine all forlorn,
Plugs misfiring and bearings worn,
That needed the plugs that Pyrox built.
đ
HERE'S the mechanic tattered and torn,
Who fitted the engine ail forlorn,
With the wonderful plugs that
Pyrox built.
(D —-
d
THIS is the motorist who with scorn
Looked at the engine all forlorn,
And said no car that’s half so worn,
Could be cured by the plugs that
Pyrox built
0
THIS is the owner who, next morn.
Started the engine ail forlorn,
But fitted with plugs that Pyrox built
OFF they went in the early dawn,
Past woods and rivers and fields of corn,
The owner thankful that he'd been born,
And the car as swift as a forest fawn—
THANKS TO THE
PLUGS THAT PYDa*.
BUILT
Sold by all Garages
Manufactured by -
PYROX PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply & Service Co. Pty. Ltd.)
The Ins and Outs
The South Africans are due in Perth a
week from to-day and the question of liow
they will get on in Australia is engaging
a lot of attention. They have a. good press
and much has been made of their defeat of
the Englishmen last season in South Africa.
Their last tour of England did not show
them a very formidable side, and both
bowlers and batsmen are likely to find a big
difference between the mostly matting wickets
of their homeland and the holding turf of
Britain, on both of which it is easy to turn
the ball, and our glass-faced pitches. They
openly confess that their main attack will
consist of medium-paced bowling, and that is
a type to which Australian batsmen are
well attuned. The Australian bowling may
turn out stronger than is anticipated. It
will at least include Oxenham, of Queens-
land, probably the best wicket-getter, apart
from Grimmett, in Australia. There are no
Faulkners in the Springbok side this time,
nor, with the exception of veteran Herbert
Taylor, a batsman of international reputa-
tion. Australia should get away with the
rubber comfortably.
* * * *
“Aigburtli”: Australian crowds
will strike something new when Xenophon
Balaskas makes liis bow on this side, the
first Greek in captivity to ever figure in a
Test match. Only 20, he is a fine all-rounder,
scoring heavily and taking wickets with his
slow curlies against the Englishmen in South
Africa. Born in Kimberley, of 1.D.8. fame,
lie is of pure Greek parentage. I am afraid
Xenophon is in for some critical attention
from the barrackers. They alone will decide
on his “moniker” of course, but I fancy the
punter who puts his money on, something
like “Steaka-da-oyst” won’t be far out.
“Old Q.”: There seems to be some money
left in Queensland yet when it comes to a
question of cricket. Alan Ivippax recently
took a strong N. S. Wales team through
Central and North Queensland and N.S.W.
The nine weeks of the tour showed an aver-
age weekly profit of £4SO for the clubs and
associations engineering it —good going even
in flush times.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: Queensland reckons it
has a special rod in pickle for the southern
States and the Afrikanders in the person
of abo. fast-bowler Gilbert, who has improved
out of sight since last season. His own dis-
trict association recently banned the darkie
as too dangerous on country wickets, but an
appeal to their finer feelings and the plea
that it was better that a few unknown
patriots should become hospital cases’ than
that Gilbert’s services be lost to the State
for want of practice prevailed. Gilbert
would long ago have been found employment
in Brisbane but for the fact that he is a
ward of the Aborigines Protection Depart-
ment. With memories of the exploitation of
such great abo. athletes as Charley Samuels
and Jerry Jerome in past years, the A.P.D.
is very chary of letting its charges off the
chain.
__ “Old Trafford” : Alfred Bennett, the Port
Ivembla (N.S.W.) cricket colt who last
season returned to his native Lancashire to
play League cricket as a professional- with
St. Helens, has turned his face southwards
again. It was reported that he had been
offered a permanent place on the Lancashire
side next season, but the cold and damp of
the cotton county have proved too much
for him after Australian sunshine. It is
likely that he will play with one of the
Sydney clubs, most probably St. George.
“Hotham”: Literature possibly suffered a
.severe loss when Ponsford, whose name
is probably revered in circles to which
Charles Garvice, Shakspeare and even
Edgar Wallace are unknown, left Mel-
bourne “Herald” to take up a billet on
the Melbourne Cricket Ground staff. Pons-
ford. who has hitherto been numbered with
the Saints—St. Kilda, that is—-is playing for
the M.C.C. this season. His retirement will
help to solve one of the problems atHicting
the Board of Control—the player-writer,
whose activities in the past have given the
panjandrums of the game some sleepless
nights.^
“Hotham”: The gibbering of the dead
past was heard in Bendigo the other day
when an ex-umpire named Pearce applied
for re-instatement to the Bendigo Cricket
Association, which had expelled him. Pearce’s
transgression was a serious one. When
Chapman’s last team was playing in Bendigo
everyone was anxious to see the English inn-
ings close. Jardine popped one to short
leg, and Pearce, who was umpire at that
end, gratefully took the catch. Jardine and
others of the visitors nearly swooned, and
Pearce was haled before the cricket beaks.
He remarked wearily that matches of this
sort were invariably a farce, and lie thought
he might as well inject a little frivolity" of
his own into the proceedings. The enraged
executive passed him out as an ump., but
whether for telling the truth or not remains
a murky mystery to this day.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The uncertainty as to the
date on which! Satoh will arrive from
England to join the Japanese tennis team
in this country has led to the announce-
ment that the programme as published
(B. 7/10/’3l) is only tentative. Satoh
is likely to be the big hit of the tour,
and since he cannot make a landfall in
Westralia until well on in January, the
Australian chanipionships in Adelaide have
been pushed forward: they will now be held
from February 3 to 13. With N.S.W. des-
perately attempting to grab the opening
dates of the Nipponese in Brisbane, where
they are due to land on January 12, there
seems every opportunity for an old-man
mixup.
* * * *
J. R. Macgillicuddy, killed in a motor
accident in Melbourne the other day, was
one of Victoria’s leading racquet-wielders and
one who showed great possibilities as a
tennis legislator while a delegate member
of the V.T.C. Only '29, he was ranked equal
sixth among Victorian players of 1930. He
represented the State three times against
N.S.W. and four times against South Aus-
tralia.
* * $ sS
“Shrewsbury”: In these days, when many
folk are talking and writing of tennis
records, I wonder whether anyone recalls
the case of P. F„ Hadow. One of a famous
athletic family, lie played cricket for Harrow
and Middlesex, like his three brothers, in the
1870’s. After a period of work in Canada
he came back to England in 1878, and, being
attracted with the game of tennis, which
he had never before played, gave it a spin.
As a result of a few months’ practice he
won the All England singles at Wimbledon;
and never tackled the game again. Form
couldn’t have been too bad then, either, for
the mighty lienshaws followed close on
Hadow’s heels.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The McHaggis”: A query from a Bulle-
tin correspondent signing himself “Trier”
has been passed to me for a ruling. He and
a friend had driven off when two bulls
began to fight at the spot where the balls
had lodged—this was in Queensland, of
course. During the fight one ball was
kicked back towards the tee, whether by
the bulls or the players is not stated. The
owner of the ball played from where it lay.
“What should he have done?” Well, first
of all, the bulls should have been removed
as loose impediments under law 28—either
lifted with the hand or brushed aside with
the head of the club. Had this been done
there would have been no trouble. In play-
ing from where the ball was kicked, sup-
posing that the bull was the kicker, the
player was justified by rule 17, which says
that a ball deflected by any agency outside
the match shall be played from where it lies.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The Australian woman
golf champion, Susie Tolhurst, continues to
show the rare form which distinguished her
in the Australian championships in Sydney
recently. Playing in a Melbourne match to
decide the champion of club champions, she
gave her opponent in the final, Kathleen
Donaldson, of Kingston Heath club, no
chance at all, finishing 6 up and 5 to play.
It would be more than worth while to send
the young Victorian overseas next season
for a fly at the British title. There arc
not many in the Cold Country in her class.
“Marino”: Rufus Stewart, of Kooyonga
club, won the South Australian professional
golf championship by a margin of five
strokes over Frank Harvey, of Royal Adel-
aide, Stewart’s total being 303. This is
Stewart’s first win in this event. Fergus
McMahon, who was holder of the title for
1928-29-30 could get no nearer on this
occasion than sixth, with a score of 313.
“Spoon”: There has. been a lull lately in
the. inventing of devices for finding lost
golf balls, so the first of the season to
come to light is welcome. The inventor is an
American, of course, and he has concocted a
sweet-scented preparation with which the
ball is painted. When the ball goes into
long grass, all the player has to do is to
sit down and wait for the bees and butter-
flies to be attracted and so betray its loca-
tion.
“Divot Digger” : One golf feature, popular
in other parts of the world but little heard
of in Australia, is the long-driving compe-
tition. One of these might with advantage
be staged at the State and Australian cham-
pionship meetings. It is always an attrac-
tive turn with the crowd and has the
additional advantage that it gives the
medium-mark player, who is often a first-
class hand at getting length from the tee, a
chance to figure in the limelight from which
the rest of his game debars him. There are
some mighty smiters among Australian top-
notchers and a go between Rufus Stewart,
H. W. H'attersley, Jim Ferrier and 11. L.
Williams, to mention only a few, would be
worth paying real money to see.
“Iloylake”: The English women’s golf
championship passed off very quietly this
year, there being no players of the standard
of the Leitcli sisters or Joyce Wethered to
catch the public fancy. The final was won
by an unknown on this side, Wanda Morgan,
Avho downed Molly Gourlay, winner of the
title in 1929, 3up and 1. Last year’s title-
holder, Diana Fishwicb, wasn’t mentioned
in the betting.
❖ ❖ *
“Muirfield”: One of the many Yankee
journals devoted to golf pours scorn on the
Scottish golfer in commenting on the result
of the American open championship.
“Where,” it asks, “are the Scots in this
Scottish game?” and goes on to jubilate over
the alleged fact that the first 11 players
to finish are “100 per cent. American.” Of
the 11 quoted, Burke, the winner, is an
American-Pole of the first generation, George
von Elm is Dutch. Leo Diegel German, Gene
Sarazen Italian. Melhorn and Walter Hagen
of German stock, Perkins. English and
Johnny Farrell Irish. Scotland might well
ask in its turn where the Americans are in
this American event.
Car and Cycle
“Bats”: American traffic legislation is apt
to be as weird as some other varieties of
statutory enactment in that country. Only
the other day we heard that the State of
Alabama had passed a law compelling all
horses to carry head and tail lights at night.
Now Delaware has decreed that all pedes-
trians must show signals at night, either
by a white cloth prominently displayed or a
lighted lantern. If this is not complied will),
pedestrians injured by motor-cars will have
no right of recovering damages at law. What
happens to the unhappy hoofer who runs
down a motor-car in the dark is not stated,
but it is probably something with boiling
oil in it.
*■' •!- $
“Pram” : The British small car of various
makes continues to put up outstanding per-
formances in all sorts of climates and under
all sorts of conditions. Within a few days
recently three of them scored in different
parts of the world. In the Circuit de Villa
Real, a Portuguese event over 140 kilometres,
one was first in the 750-c.c. class, second in
the sports class and third in the general
classification, and this against most of the
well-known makes of cars. In the Guringal
mountain-climbing race, a leading Swiss
competition, one of the babies was first in
both the sports and touring classes for cars
up to 750 c.c. Finally, at a hill-climb meet
at Kuala Lumpur, in the Federated Malay
States, the little chaps scored four firsts,
five seconds and two thirds out of 14 classes.
* * * *
“Coburg”: Members of the Autocycle
Union of Victoria had their capacity fully
tested during their 24-hour reliability trial,
in which only five of 20 starters finished. The
weather was villainous and the 500 miles or
road that had to be covered corresponded; it
was a case of rain in the lowlands and fog on
the mountain sections. Half a dozen riders
had bad spills during the night, and one,
F. Stone, was taken to hospital with a
probable skull fracture. It is doubtful if
tests held under such conditions are of any
use. The matter of getting home first, or
gaining the largest amount of points, resolves
itself into sheer luck. It is certain that
inexperienced riders, whom tests of this
kind are supposed to instruct, never gain
any advantage from them.
“Kick Starter”: Alex. Findley put up a
new set of figures for all-power motor-cycles,
121ir. .‘iOmin., in a journey from Sydney
to Melbourne, beating the previous best by
Cecil Weatlierley, of Sydney, by 55 minutes.
The last, 200 miles was covered in 41ir. dead,
the cycle carrying a passenger in a .side-
car. Findley has a world’s road record to
his credit, 1065 miles in 24hr., put up on
the Phillip Island (Vic.) circuit in 1929.
Bob Findley, the famous motor-pacer of
Opperman and Fatty Lamb, is a brother.
“Tenakoe” : Held the same day as the
Warrnambool-Melbourne race, the Waimate-
Cliristchurch event, which carries with it the
Maoriland championship for push-bikes, pro-
duced an exciting finish. Though the dis-
tance is 145 miles, five riders were bunched
towards the end, T. Lolirey winning by a
length and a half from C. J. Arnst, who
carries a name famous in cycling and sculling.
The winner’s time was 7hr, 2min. 17sec., but
11. G. Watson, from scratch, registered 6hr.
44min. 49sec.
Miscellaneous
“Backwoodsman”: As an old bowler I
am filled with disgust at a paragraph in one
of the Sydney papers dealing with the alleged
practice among some bowlers of ringing in
faked “woods.” The journal asks if it is
possible that, as someone has suggested,
bowlers of this type surreptitiously employ
sandpaper to alter the bias of the balls. I
desire to' i*efute the dastardly insinuation.
No bowler out of Callan Park would use
sandpaper when a piece of broken glass
bottle will do the trick much more success-
fully and with far less chance of detection.
“C. Bumpkin.”: Bernard Shaw blames a
vegetarian diet for his plays, but J. R. Gib-
son, a Melbourne runner of 6”> years, goes
one better. Recently the Preston and North-
cote Amateur Athletic Club forbade him to
compete in a marathon race. The warrior
left with a pacer and timekeeper 40 minutes
before the official contestants, and only three
of them passed him before he reached the
26-mile point. He fortified himself for the
ordeal by eating one apple, two bananas and
the juice of six oranges, and afterwards flung
himself with zest upon seven bananas. His
object in performing the feat was to demon-
strate the value of an exclusively fruitarian
diet.
“Long Dog”: Bombay, which used to take
a lot of Australian horses, both racers and
remounts, has broken out in a new line and
is now thirsting for our greyhounds. The
tin-hare obsession has got the pious Parsec
by the ears, apparently, for there aren’t
enough tykes to go round. Last week
seven of Victoria’s best greyhounds were
shipped to India by the Nagina, and a second
batch is to follow shortly. Several other
dogs have preceded the present shipment,
the star of which is Ebony Prince, winner
of the first prize for greyhounds at the
recent Melbourne Show.
“Ehoa”: Maoriland has been casting a
watering mouth, so to speak, on the festivities
to be held in connection with the opening of
the Sydney Harbor Bridge. T?he M.L.
athletic heads have been discussing the re-
vival of visits between Australian and
M.L. athletes, and the Australian autho-
rities are to be approached in the matter.
For some years a system of Australasian
championships held every two years was in
vogue, these taking place in the various Aus-
tralian States and in Maoriland in turn.
The last were held at Wellington in 1927.
and the All Blacks then decided to pull out
of the arrangement and go on their own.
They have probably realised, as it was pro-
phesied they would, that splendid isolation
of the sort does not make for improvement
in national athletics.
“Fitzcray” : It. J. Jelbert, the Melbourne
University sculler of other days and cham-
pion of Victoria last year, can fairly be
rated as keen on the game. He lives at
Ballarat, and in order to get practice on
the Yarra for the coming Henley engage-
ments, has been taking periodical trips to
Melbourne. Transport of a costly rowing-
shell on the railway is a delicate business,
so the problem has been solved by fitting the
top of a motor-car to carry tin- craft. The
projecting bow and stern rest on wooden
shears fastened fore and- aft to the car, and
the middle of the boat lies in a light cradle
on top of the hood.
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum, who has
been showing in Sydney with Tom Newman,
has leased a place in Pitt-street: the
reconditioned premises will contain dining-
rooms, private tuition-rooms and numbers of
billiard tables for the general public. Tin-
show will be formally opened next year
when the champion comes back from his
tour of America and Britain. One wishes
him luck.


MARK YOUR
LINEN in the
MODERN WAY
d
“A Few Stitches
& They ’re On. *'
mm
naMEs
They safeguard all apparel and household
linen Neat Distinctive and Fadeless.
Ss33 c W?MULmA
Actual Size
Style No, 6
The Price* are Moderate.
12 doz. 7/6; 6 doz. 5/-; 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by Leading Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
. . , ~« r i i Australian
J. & J. CAbM WEAVING CO. PTY. LTD.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melb.
TO-DAY — TO-MORROW
Yesterday does not matter any more, but what you do to-day may
make or mar to-morrow. It is of no use repining about what should
have been done —it is what lies to our hands now that really counts.
To an extent contemplation of yesterday may help, for everyone made
mistakes then, especially the errors of omission. Whatever of hardship
or disappointment they may have brought they have at least pointed a
lesson for us. To-day, now, is the time to do things, and this applies
especially to the thrifty accumulation of money. We cannot read our
needs for to-morrow but we can begin to provide for them.
There is no easier, better plan than the Commonwealth Savings Bank
provides.
Cbinmoiwcaltl) Savte JBankof Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government.)
Missing Friends.
AY/ILL JACK COLWILL, of Devon, Eng-
W land, communicate with his sister Ada,
or Elsie.’ Home address.
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION: HAY FEVER.
PALACE:
THE HIGH COST OF LOVING.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: FLORODORA,
With DOROTHY BRUNTON and All Star Cast.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Leunon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre ot Oueenstand's
Distinguished Soclal Lite.
This summer’s styles and a sunsliot after-
noon at Randwick are hand and glove. On
Ladies’ Day, Nature set the stage for a per-
fect summer comedy, the players dressed
even as the flowers of the field and the butter-
flies on the wing. White organdie frocks,
long and full, billowed about like soft
cumulus clouds lightly tethered to the green
sward. Pink, mauve and yellow organdies
bunched together like sweet-peas, chiffons
ruffled in the very slight mid-afternoon breeze
and Australian sky-blues were everywhere.
The best hats were large and droopy; the
feathered bowler was as out-of-place as white
buckskin shoes at Thackaringa in a February
dust-storm. Some of the hats had a flat
platter-like look; these were hung on the
left side of the head, security ensured by a
bandeau. Some of the muslins and georgettes
fitted so tightly from waist to knees that
from the back their wearers appeared to be
in constant salaam —the effect most gro-
tesque when the wearer had retrouss6 hips.
(Another hint is not to go out so trans-
parent that the butterfly that embroiders
your knickers is visible yards off.) Colored
heels and sunshades flashed as girls pranced
from the shadow of the stands into the
glare, and at least one sprigged muslin
pyjama frock had an airing.
Roses and violas swooned between sky and
lawn as the dashing Phar Lap ran home
with the Craven Plate, chipping a bit .off
his own record just for style, and tense men
and women forgot the oppression of the air-
less stands in the joy of achievement. The
vice-regals, Lady Game neatly patterned in.
black and white, gathered a great lunch
party, handsome Beau Burdekin and Aide
Gifford’s mo.ther, Mrs. G. H. Rayner and
her jolly-faced husband among them. Mrs.
Rayner, in poppy-red georgpttes and a red
hat deep in crown and sophisticated as to
brim, was one of the most interesting talkers
in the group. Morna MacCormick, in cool
browns and greens, and Gretel Bullmore,
black-hatted and pink-frocked, were the let-
tuce of youth in the v.-r. salad, and Mrs.
Spencer Brunton added onion-brown georg-
ettes. ,
In the little church of All Saints’, on the
Bodys’ Trangie estate, sweet with lilac and
Irish fire-flame roses from the home garden,
John Taylor Bennett and Enid Alexandra
Macknight exchanged their vows. Enid was
one of Ascham’s most popular girls, and
the young man, who hails from Rose Bay,
had been jackeroo on the Bodys’ station.
Mr. E. I. Body gave the bride away, and
after the ring-adjustment he and his wife
had 70 guests to dine and dance. As befits
a country ceremony, bride and ’maids wore
muslin frocks. White organdie frilled from
the waist for the bride, plus a tulle veil and
a bouquet of orange blossom and white lilac
from the garden at Narrawema, and apricot
organdie for ’maids Anne Bevan and Mar-
garet Body.
Even Pelmanism can’t suggest a connect-
ing thread between Pirates, Pyjamas and
a Gum-tree; nevertheless at the Gum-tree
Cabaret to aid the O.W.A. hospitals and
the Bush Nursing Centres,, two star turns
were the Pirates and the Pyjama ballet.
These were manned by amateurs, Peggy Car-
ruthers responsible for the first and Mrs.
Cecily Stewart for the second. Every nook
of David Jones’s ballroom was a niche for
humans, for the cabaret had been one of
the most-talked-of Race Week flutters and
was a great meeting-place for visiting mem-
bers of the C.W.A. Sir Philip and Lady
Game were early arrivals, she sheathed in
fine gold lace, over which was a black velvet
coat with enviable white fox collar. All
the C.W.A. heads were there, as well as
the Bush Nursing enthusiasts, and these
with the friends they had snared from every
suburb mounted to over 1000.
Theatre parties every night of Race Week
gave the Criterion just the right audiences
for Noel Coward’s thistledown madness,
“Hay Fever.” Ethel Morrison looks very
handsome though inappropriate in the first
and last acts in a Malmaison rose-pink chif-
fon, very fitting about waistline and hips,
and dangling little sleeve-drapes and flutter-
ing skirt' panels. Her leaf-green chiffon
frock girt with diamente in the second act
seems to call for better treatment than to be
flung upon the stage in an abandon of
melodrama —with Ethel inside, of course.
The play’s a happy lunacy that’s just
the right draught for the suavely-dressed
who have dined well, but it’s not a play for
the out-of-work girl whose dinner was a cup
of tea and a meat-pie and whose rent is due
Regan, of Tamworth, married his
Kathleen Cavanagh on a sonorous surge or
music. The Nuptial Mass had in addition
to the mass music the bridal “ f , f r: , r
“Lohengrin” and Mendelssohn s wedding
march. ° Alma Doepel, who had come from
Muswellbroob, sang an Ave Maria while the
signatures were being secured off-stage. lhe
breakfast was a simple family affair in the
drawing-room of the Australia, where when
ever anybody felt an urge to make a speech
he sang or played instead. Bridegroom s
mother and sister Mary are going off .to
Europe for a long tour, and he and Ms bride
will live in the old Tamworth home for at
1( a Fans^°fans, rS fans ! What charm and elo-
quence ’they have in “The Mikado,” where
every emotion is reproduced in flirt, in clmk
or ripple of the airy implement! Dear little
Marie Bremner, as Yum Yum, flaunts a
beauty when she sings her song of sun and
moon. It has amber sticks, and when she
sings of the moon she stretches it out above
her head, and across its red glow you see a
silver moon shining; when she sings of the
sun she turns it round and exults in the si
that is deep gold.
Not many parents in Australia have had
a bishop son among their golden-weddin,
guests; but it was the happy lot of Canon
and Mrs. Cranswick last week. The devoted
couple have been 47 years in Australia, com-
ing here three years after their marriage in
the parish church of Old Cleve, in Somerset.
There are two other sons: one, Geoffrey, is
a missionary in India; the A.M.P. clairns the
services of the other. At the party Padre
Tugwell (Dulwich Hill) presided, Arch-
gaiters Wright and Bishop D Arcy-Irvine
were among the speechmakers, and Kelso
King was among the guests.
Joan Willoughby Dowling, a very young
old Doone girl, is engaged to Peter bkivmg-
ton. Peter, a young Englishman was one
of the sprightly young bachelors about byd-
ney for a time, and was always . ready to
lend his good looks and -quick brain to any
charity theatricals. Joan, who is the only
daughter of the Willoughby Dowlings, of
Wargan Dinna, Bugilbone, is a nice-looking
girl with a good head under a smooth
Sh This" is Marie Rosenfeld, the gentle,
puzzled.' yet by no means weak Ro , s e of the
Independents’ production of Street Scene.
Under the tremulous yet sure touch ot her-
self and John Wyndham, the romance be-
tween her and the young poetic Jew, who
also lives amid
the squalor of
that dreadful
tenement they
call home,
flashed into
flower as natu-
rally as the
lilac bush in
the poem they
quote, to be
scorched by
ruthless fate
even as the
lilac bush in
their park
was withered
by the New
York heat
wave. Elmer
Rice would
have been sat-
isfied with the
Sydney girl’s
performance at
the Savoy. She is not only pleasing to look
upon but pleasing to listen to. For 1J
months she studied in Hollywood. During
that time she and her brother, who was
going in for constructive aviation, shared a
bungalow apartment, and both learned to
love the fascinating superficial city of bright
lights and many stars. A Rene Pardon
portrait. . ,
Mrs. Arthur McNiven’s was one of the
handsomest frocks at the Gilbert and Sullivan
ball. It was in two tones of lilac, its hooped
skirt gaining dignity from a court train of
velvet. A powdered wig in the Pompadour
fashion and an ostrich-feather fan in the
two tones of lilac were other items in this
prize-earning costume from “‘Utopia, Ltd.
Opposed to the impressiveness of Mrs. John
Eales, who, as Madame Sangazure, wore
delft-blue moires and point lace which had
belonged to her grandmother, Dr. Purdy
swaggered along as the Pirate King, and Dr.
Maguire walked his beat as the Sergeant of
Police out of the “Pirates.” This was one
of the funniest impersonations in the
pageant ; while the fairies from “lolanthe”
fluttered (more or less), and tall Bill Howard,
a very upstanding Sergeant Willis, marched
boldly, the Policeman directed the traffic with
a smug pomposity that would have endeared
him to Gilbert. Yinia de Loitte was another
well-known in the procession. There were
Strephon and Phyllis, and the nice people
from “Patience,” and George Fitz Patrick, as
the Dean from “The Sorcerer.” There was
a girl dressed as the bird who sang “Tit
Willow,” and there was Erna Living, who
did her own good looks the poor compliment
of coming as Mrs. Gilbert O’Sullivan —a
rickety lady with a red nose and two beer
bottles.
The walls of the Town H’all were hung
with G. and S. posters, and there were
palms everywhere. These latter came from
the Botanical Gardens, from Fred Searl (who
had done marvels with the decorations) and
from the last Balokovic recital. Charlie
Westmacott, Harry Julius and ex-Justice
Gordon’s lady were the judges; and after
the show at Hes Majesty’s the G. and S.
co. trooped into the ballroom, and, led by
the captain of the Pinafore, swept the
length of the room, their costumes seeming
to rustle with laughter.
The clever girl in this picture is May
Mitchell, secretary to the Women’s Hospital
in Crown-street, where over 2000 new citi-
zens are introduced to Australia every year.
In the hospi-
tal there are
210 bed s—
none ever
empty; there
is an active
out - patients’
clinic to train
expectant
mothers in
pre-natal care;
and another
clinic where
mother can
.bring the heir
to the ages
for consulta-
tion about his
baby ills. The
threads ol
this great in-
stitution are
in the hands
of this capable
young woman,
who started her business career as a flapper
on the staff. Her father was Sydneys
former Metropolitan Superintendent ot
Police. .
This Letter met a girl who told it, quite
seriously, that she got on to Strength by the
“test of the hen” “My grandmother used
to believe in it,” she whispered. When you
know the acceptances, you write the name
of each horse on an egg; then you get a
broody hen and put the eggs under her, and
well, of course, first past the post s the
winner.”
Mrs. Ewan Frazer, widow of the former
A. J.C. committeeman, died at her f omt
Piper flat on Sunday after a long illness.
She was Jessie Middleton, of Goulburn, when
her beauty and wit won the love of Sydney s
richest young man 30 years ago. They spent
their honeymoon in England, and went bach
there to educate their two sons, who had
brilliant careers at Winchester and Oxford.
Mrs. Frazer’s life was “roses all the way
till a year or so ago, when she lost her son
Jack —in a ski-ing accident in Switzerland—
and her husband in quick succession. She
was a gifted pianist—she had played profes-
sionally before her marriage—and in spite ot
her deafness a notable hostess and conver-
sationalist.
There is poetry in Mary Gilmores new
book, “The Rue Tree,” and no woman will
read it without tears—the tears that are
a beauty-bath to the souL For The Rue
Tree” is a spiritual flowering, perhaps the
most sustained and intense spiritual song
Australia has heard from her singers. The
book was mostly written during a long stay
at Goulburn, where the writer became an
intimate visitor in the convents. It has
beauty on every page. There is all the atmo-
sphere of the old miracle play in Said
Leveret to Hare,” and this Letter ean . think
of nothing more satisfying for Christmas
recitations for little ones than this poem and
“When Jesus was a Little Boy.”
After the Day of Atonement comes for
Jews the heartening symbolism of the
Harvest Festival. This year the annexe of
the Maccabean Hall was turned into as
close a picture to a tent beneath the bough
as Jean’s could make it. Here tall trees
lifted themselves to the opening in the roof
through which the sky smiled down; the
ceiling was hung with the fruits of the earth,
the walls were banked with frond and flower.
On a long table were set wine and cakes,
and over these was spread a red velvet cloth
richly fringed in gold. Here, throughout a
week, Jews young and old called, sipped a
little wine and exchanged greetings. This
is the nearest the city dweller, can get to
the original, which was a feast in the patri-
archal tents of Israel. There are some old-
fashioned Jewish families who still celebrate
the Feast of the Tabernacles in the open air.
Many Sydney music-lovers will remember
Mavrogordato, for several years on the Con-
servatorium staff. Up till his death (the
result of an accident) he was still a student,
putting in hours of research work in the
British Museum (in spite of his foreign-
sounding name he belonged to a very old
English family). To him Dorothy Helmrich,
among others in Sydney, owes that thirst for
knowledge of her art which is her outstand-
ing characteristic.
Intending employers are often uncon-
sciously cruel in demanding personal appli-
cations from job-seekers. A firm advertised
for a girl stenographer with the dozen or so
accomplishments usually demanded these
days. On arriving sharp at nine, a girl who
felt she had all the necessary equipment
found a queue that stretched the length ot
the block. Some of them told her they
had been there from eight, to be sure or
a front seat. The nine o'clock arrival looked
at the long line and thought that she’d take a
walk and call back in an hour’s time. She
did, and found a still formidable queue wait-
ing. She went away again and returned
after twelve. By the time she was in the
manager’s room it was close on one. Yet
the job and the applicant did not click that
morning, and there were interviews at a later
date. Surely a first application might be
by letter, to save tram or train money. It
may mean —often does mean —the difference
between lunch and no lunch.
Brisbane prances in:—
About 4000 people visited the Warwick Bush-
man’s Carnival and saw the Governor, mounted, like
Napoleon, on a grey horse, lead the grand parade
of 150 mounted men and women round the ring.
Sombreros, gay jackets and leather breeks gave the
cowboy touch which seems to be regarded as essential
on these occasions, but a concession to national
sentiment was provided by a party of aboriginals,
arrayed for a corroboree in pipeclay and red ochre.
Herold Kyng, Gwendo Paul’s husband, judged the
elocution at the A.N.A. Eisteddfod and complimented
the committee on their choice of Australian poems
in lieu of the usual collection. He also judged the
singing.
His Majesty’s had a full house for George Sorlee's
opening presentation of “My Pal Ginger,’’ an Aus-
tralian play. Yvonne Banvard played Mary Dawson,
in pink organdie, and amongst the audience were
the Premier and Mrs. Moore, the Attorney-General
and Mrs. Macgroarty, the R. M. Gows, the George
Cryles, the Stronachs and Dr. S. Trout.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin gave a luncheon
party at Government House to the Forgan Smiths,
Mr. and Mrs. M. J. ICirwan, the F. A. Coopers, the
Mullans, the G. P. Barbers, Mrs. Pease and Mr. F.
Ryder.
St. Stephen’s Presbyterian church, Toowoomba, saw
the marriage of James H. Turner and Norma,
daughter of Dr. Alex. Horn. The bride, who was
given away by her father, was in magnolia satin
and a rare Carrick-moss lace veil. Sine Horn,
Laurie Walker and Jessie Turner ’maided, wearing
respectively coral pink, yellow and blue mariette,
with wide-brimmed crin. hats to match. The pipers
played the party to the Alexandra Cafe, where the
bride’s stepmother, Mrs. Horn, received in beige
mariette. The ’moon rises on a motor tour of the
South.
Clarence R. Noyes, Warwick, married Hermioi.e
Nell Lewis, Eagle Junction. The bride, who was
handed over by her father, was in ivory satin with
a veil of hand-’broidered silk tulle. Doris Gregory
’maided in powder-blue with a halo of pink roses
and forget-me-nots.
Our visiting Agent-General was entertained by the
Queensland Press Institute at a lunch in Rowe’s
banqueting hall. Mrs. W. Young, the president, was
in black mariette piped with ivory, with black satin
coat and baku hat. The speakers included General
Spencer Brown. The Agent-General said a good
word for London’s climate; even in London
there was more sunshine than most people credited,
and the windows of the Queensland office got their
share.
Tassie’s tale:—
A popular northern wedding—Carrick was the
scene—was that of Engel Holyman, youngest chick
of Mrs. and the late Capt. Holyman, Launceston,
and Donald Atkins, Hobart. The bride wore a
tailored suit of wine-colored wool de Chine, with
blouse of beige, and wine-colored hat. Cousin Mona
Holyman and Gertie Atkins, sister of the bridegroom,
’maided in blue woollen suit with white satin blouse
and blue hat, and caramel wool beige crepe with
brown hat, respectively. Only immediate relatives
were present.
Mrs. Holyman entertained about 100 guests in the
evening. A large floral bell marked the bridal table
in the dining-room, and the decorations were lovely.
The bride wore a charming turnout in camation-
pink georgette, with coral neckline and outlines on
neck and hem of crystal and pink beads.
The usual epidemic of spring fairs has broken
out. Baby clinics and schools, churches and hospitals
and sports committees run shows incessantly, and
usually manage to rake in something worth while.
Meantime social doings are held up and every one
is economising.
Mothers assembled in large numbers at the
Mothercraft Home on its sixth birthday. The guests
inspected the small new wing, which was just com-
pleted, Mrs. G. W. Shoobridge, the late H. Stannard
and a Government subsidy providing the wherewithal.
The Nicholls lady, who is president, gave the good
news of a £3OO legacy from the late Miss Fall,
of Evandale.
Conductor George A. Jackson was responsible
for a good performance, by the Philharmonic Society,
of Mendelssohn’s “Elijah” at the Town Tall. Soloists
were Allen Limb, Rev. H. G. S. Begbie, Doreen
Bidencope, Mrs. Cox and Lila Harvey, with Mrs.
Richardson as leader of the orchestra and Claude
Mitchell at the organ.
The ball which wound up the Collegiate School
Foundation week took place at the Masonic Hall,
which was too crowded for comfort. However, the
girls and youths made light of the crush. Mrs.
Alan Crisp did the secretarial work.


V.
NATURE is a stern taskmistress if
you disregard her. The first
command is to keep a clean
open system so that disease cannot get
a foothold. Constipation is a deadly
menace. Reasonable exercise and the
help of Figsen at the slightest sign of
constipation will keep your system
working cleanly and well. Figsen, the
gentle laxative, is a splendid precau-
tion against eliminative troubles, does
not purge or gripe nor does it create
the “medicine habit.” No unpleasant
after effects. Equally effective for
adults and children. Pleasant to take
and absolutely effective.
FIGSEN
fa
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail-
ment
Sold only by
Chemists
(9
*
4}
IMPROVED H, -LO”
RISSELL
"SWEEPER
SWEEPS EASIER
The new Bissell sweeps every sur-
face from heaviest carpets to lino-
leum—easier. This wide sweep-
ing range made possible by ex-
clusive, patented Bissell “Hi-Lo”
Brush Control.
Real work saver and best for
daily sweeping. It is easy to use
—easy to empty economical—•
light, handy and durable.
Try a new Bissell —at leading
merchants.
A
s
l
Booklet on Request to
ARKELL & DOUGLAS, Inc.
General Agents
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. AUCKLAND
Bissell Carpet Sweeper Co., Manufacturers
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nu[?] [?]
[?]
Guineas Day at Caulfield was slioru of a
spring frock parade hy an overcast sky and
a cold wind, but the women came out strong-
on hats. Barring the large floppy variety,
every shape, ancient and modern, seemed
to be represented. There were bowlers of
glossy and dull straws with, brims that took
many sorts of turnings; and dinky little felt,
cloth and straw headpieces on lines of
forage caps, perched perkily on the side of
a permanent wave. Several people aired fine
panamas, banded with black ribbon, which
are also revivals of fashion. Also there was
a great outcrop of feathers. Almost every
bowler hat boasted a plume, white or pepper-
and-salt, and occasionally green. Little
feathers stood up and great feathers dangled
down, nearly to the waist-line in some cases,
or curled about the cheek or neck of the
wearer. The boa of ostrich feathers wasn’t
represented, but they are shown in the
shops, so it won’t be long before they come
back. Black-and-white effects, in tailored
suits or ensembles, were again popular. Mrs.
Leslie Macdonald sported a distinctively -cut
belted costume of this nature. Mrs. Arthur
Gallivant, who was with Mrs. R. G. Casey,
wore a smart coat and skirt of sapphire-
blue and a matching felt hat. Mrs. Len
Buxton was in flecked green summer tweed
and a bottle-green straw hat. Mrs. Ben
Chaffey and Miss McPherson, Mrs. Clive
Leonard and Mrs. Merson Cooper were in
the committee ladies’ box, which had a
full quota. Mrs. E. P. Bevan was there with
her daughter Mrs. Leslie Boyce, from Eng-
land. who had two white ostrich tips in
her black felt hat that topped a coat with
a collar of.nutria fur. Early lily of the
valley, tulips and other flowers decorated
many a dark coat or sombre suit. * Russell
Clarke was accompanied by his daughter
Marjorie and Mary Russell, of the Western
district. The R. M. Cuthbertsons, the W.
I’ulteney Meins, Julia Flynn and her
sister-in-law Mrs. Flynn, Mrs. Corrie Gard-
ner and Mrs. Pearce and daughter Aileen
were others who watched the races.
The Old Melburnians—former students of
Melbourne C. of E. Grammar School—held
their hop at Caulfield City Hall, which shel-
tered 500 dancers. Sheila Morell was there,
in draperies of nigger-brown chiffon with a
matching coat. Captain R. Breadmorc and
his wife—Eld Kay that was—who are here
on furlough from India, were guests, she in
daffodil satin. Ivatli Rogers-Thomson was
a dainty figure in pale-pink georgette. Mrs.
Lindsay Alsop sported scarlet chiffon, and
Cynthia Brookes achieved the popular mag-
pie effect in black ninon with white fox fur
bordering the coatee.
A dance was staged in the new wing of the
District Nursing Society’s After-care Home
to get funds for the institution. The presi-
dent of the committee was Edna Lowe, wear-
ing draperies of pink chiffon, the joint secs,
being Dorothy Morris, in amber-toned
•spotted net, and Nancye Stewart, who wore
a gold lame sash with her apple-green satin
gown. Colin Cohen’s amateur orchestra,
assisted.
The reception-rooms of the Royal Auto-
mobile Club sheltered a hop to help the
Windsor hostel for the blind. Mrs. H. J.
Robertson, who danced in apple-green satin,
ivas chief engineer, with Mrs. J. B. Mills as
hon. sec. Mrs. J. Crooks arranged the
flowers about the rooms and supper-tables.
The president of the R.A.C., 11. J. Bean, and
his wife were there.
At Our Lady of Lourdes Church, Arma-
dale, Cecilia, only daughter of Mrs. W. 11.
Waters, of East Malvern, was linked to
John, son of W. Dowsett, of New Farm,
Brisbane, Bananaland. Satin of deep cream
tint, draped with rare old Limerick lace, and
similar lace as veil decked the bride, who
carried a sheaf of water-lilies. Her atten-
dant ’maid, Celia Fogarty, was in forget-me-
not blue tulle.
Another wedding on the same day had also
some interest for Brisbaneites. Norman,
younger son of the late Senator John Adam-
son and of Mrs. Adamson, of Hendra, took
unto himself as wife Alice, only daughter of
the P. J. Ducats, of Ardmona. The knot-
tying was at St. Augustine’s, Sheppartou,
Archdeacon and Mrs. Carter lending the
rectory for the after-rejoicings. The bridal
gown, of ivory georgette, had a gleam of pale
pink beneath, and there were cascades of
tulle. Flowered green chiffon was worn by
the chief maid, and an accompanying wee
girl tripped along in primrose organdie and
matching bonnet. The newly-weds will reside
in Brisbane.
The medical staff of Queen Victoria Hos-
pital met at the Lyceum Club for a pre-
nuptial party to Dr. Barbara Cameron. The
president, Dr. Roberta Donaldson, handed
the bride-elect a lovely lalique bowl as re-
membrance of her days among them. Amongst
those who were there was Dr. Effie Stillwell,
on furlough from her duties' in India. Dr.
Cameron, who is a daughter of the late
Lwen Cameron, M.L.A., was married to
Lev. Charles Meredith, vicar of St. Peter’s,
Murrumbeena, at St. George’s, Malvern. The
bride faced the altar in a travelling suit of
navy blue and matching straw hat, with a
touch of color.
A recent bride was attended by two ’maids
who wore leaf-green taffeta scattered with
lemon-shaded blossoms and green hats, and
a third in figured silk of light gold with
matching felt millinery. This colorful back-
ground for the leading lady’s white satin tulle
and silver array made up a pretty picture,
suggesting springtime.
Quite a lot of bits of the bush were traus-
ferred to St. Ivilda Town Hall when the
ield Naturalists’ Club held its show. Birds
arid natave flowers furnished the larger part
ji the collection, a feature of which was a
fine display of waratahs from N.S.W. By
the way, Gippsland grows a waratah, the
crimson flower of which is rather like a
cactus dahlia. Westralia’s contribution in-
cluded a variety of everlastiugs, the wonder-
ful blue leschenaultia and the quaint
kangaroo-paw. Now that garden-lovers are
cultivating wild flowers they are bringing
(hem to great size and beauty.
In the “wild-nature” section were a
goanna and some blue-tongued and frilled
lizards that rather enjoyed being stroked,
and cockatoos and parrots which positively
revelled in the petting bestowed on them. No
one extended a caressing hand to the snakes
or the wombat, so their disposition remains
untested, but the squirrels and a ’possum
didn’t seem to mind little fingers pushed
through the wire-netting to give them a
friendly poke. A large entry of lories and
other wee feathered songsters had hosts of
admirers. Aquatic plants and tiny deco-
rative fish had a crowd round them con-
tinually. The star exhibit in the finny sec-
tion was two quaint little lung-fish from
Queensland.
The Office Mapper writes: I went to the
Bjelke-Petersen inter-class competitions at
Wirths’ Olympia the other night, and,
believe me, I was in another world. I mean,
everything is mass-production nowadays. I
mean, there were a lot of girls in short
skirts and no-heeled shoes marching around
with a sort of goose-step and raising their
arms and legs at regular intervals, just like
the figures on Tut’s tomb, and it appears
they were all learning to be It. I mean, an
instructor I talked to said that they were
learning to be graceful and beautiful and it
comes to the same thing. I have It. Enough
at any rate to go round. I mean, I’m never
left long alone with my thoughts, even in
the office. As far as I know, I was born
Avith It. I never took any lessons. It just
came. And as far as I can see, there’s
always been a bit of a shortage of It hitherto.
But if this Bjelke-Petersen sort of business
goes on, I mean, if It can be taught by
marching around to music and doing what
you’re told there will be thousands of girls
discharged on to the dance floors all with It.
And that will mean Over-production and
Under-consumption and all the Attendant
Horrors of Unrestricted Competition and the
weakest will find themselves with their Backs
against the Wall. And that will mean
more taxation so that the Government can
subsidise the dance halls to provide larger
and larger cloak-rooms to shelter the Un-
employed. I mean, we’re going to have a
fresh Depression and it will be amongst us
girls.
Golf was played at the Peninsula links,
Frankston, to swell the finances of the
Minton Boys’ Home. The weather was fine
and the organisers, Mrs. A. Richards, Mrs.
R. McMicking, Mrs. J. Dunstan and Mrs.
11. 11. Hamer, were able to turn over to the
home a cheque for a substantial amount.
Perfect weather favored the bridge party
at Caulfield racecourse, organised to help
Ben Chaffey’s
candidature in
the Alfred
Hospital king
c o m petition.
Chief organ-
iser was Mrs.
Ben Chaffcy,
pictured here
by II usk i n.
Flower s,
sw ee t s and
cakes were on
sale, and
Doris Moffatt
a n d M r s.
Forbes Mac-
kenzie ran a
treasure hunt.
Mrs. Chaffcy
also had the
aid of Mrs.
W. Rogers
Thomson, Mrs.
.T. Fell, Mrs.
Lauchlan Mackinnon, Mrs. A. Skirving, Mrs.
Leslie Aldridge and Mrs. Merson Cooper,
with Colonel Eller, Y.A.T.C. secretary H'is-
kens and a few other menfolk. Kathleen
Rogers Thomson, Maisie Curtis and Marjene
Butler were the hon. secs., with Miss F.
McPherson as hon. treasurer.
Scotch College has been celebrating its
SOtli birthday, and congratulations have come
from all parts. The 1200 pupils of to-day
were made acquainted by the principal, Dr.
W. S. Littlejohn, with the history and
traditions of the school, and given the names
of those who have added lustre to its fame.
It commenced in 1851 under Robert Law-
son, who was dominie in a wee cottage in
Spring-street. From about 1854 to 1922
the college was situated between Lansdowne
and Grey streets in E. Melbourne; it now
occupies a site on Glenferrie-road. Dr.
Alexander Morrison was successor to Mr.
Lawson in 1857, and, on his death in 1903,
the present head was installed. Just-dead
General Monash was an ex-student of Scotch.
From Thursday till Sunday flags flew half-
mast above the city signalling the death of
General Monash. In Queen’s Hall of Par-
liament House, where the body lay in state,
there was a steady stream of people passing
reverently by the coflin covered with a Union
Jack and surrounded by an ever-increasing
pile of wreaths and other emblems. A
crown of mauve and white, a wreath with
“Belgium remembers,” a huge sword
sheathed of pansies, laurel wreaths and
gilded palms were among the tributes.
Unforgettable was the funeral of General
Monash. Crowds lined the six miles
of the route from Parliament House to
Brighton cemetery. Leading the cortege were
Diggers in mufti, followed by platoons from
the Navy and Air Force. Then came khaki-
clad soldiers, stepping slowly with arms
reversed to the strains of the Dead March
in “Saul.” Behind the gun-carriage with its
flag-draped coffin the dead man’s charger was
led. Seven cars were piled high Avith
flowers. Melbourne has seldom seen any-
thing so impressive as the service at the
shrine. There the returned soldiers dis-
banded and the procession thence be-
came mostly a motor-car one. The obse-
quies began at midday with a short Jewish
service m the crimson-carpeted Queen’s Hall
It was not until about five o’clock that the
Last lost "as sounded at the cemeterv
the booming of guns breaking through the
tolling of bells and the droning of aeroplanes
o’erhead.
“Michael and Mary,” by A. A. Milne, was
performed by the Proscenium Club at the
Playhouse to help St. Martin’s and St.
John’s homes for boys. Members of the
Ivew auxiliary, headed by their president,
Lucy Coppin, added to the proceeds by sell-
ing sweets, flowers and programmes. Dorothy
Wise and Ella Dunning were the principal
feminine members of the cast, and the Bland
Holts were in the audience.
White fur coats played a big part in the
covering on Saturday night’s audience. One
stallite wore over her black taffeta frock a
cape of ermine with a skunk collar. In the
throng were Mrs. Kingsford Smith, who
was with Mr. and Mrs. T. Patterson, Mrs.
K. E. MeCleland, Mrs. McCallum Niel, Mr.
and Mrs. E. Powling, of Warrnambool, Mr.
and Mrs. P. Nunn, and the Percy Black-
bourns.
The Braille Writers’ Association is hold-
ing a bridge party in the hall adjoining the
library on Thursday of next week to raise
funds for maintenance. Tickets may be
booked with the hon. sec., Miss M. Ttitchie,
49 Commercial-road, S. Yarra, or by ’phone,
Windsor 4786.
Ruth Ho,Hick
here pictures
Allie Robson
as she appear-
ed as Mrs.
Quinney in
“Quinney’s,” a
recent pre-
sentation by
the Grogan Me-
Mahon Play-
ers. She is a
teacher of dra-
matic art, and
has been re-
sponsible for
many w e 11-
staged produc-
tions. Among
the more re-
cent of these
was a per-
formance of
“Marigold” by
students of the
Clyde Girls’ College. Miss Robson lias tra-
velled a good deal and received much of her
training overseas.
Westralia warbles:—
Peter Dawson and Mark Hambourg were applauded
by houses packed as tightly as for a much-advertised
musical comedy in prosperous days. The wives of
both artists wore black coats. Mrs. Hambourg had
rubies and emeralds glittering upon her corsage
and Mrs. Dawson dipped • into her jewel case for
diamonds. Hugo Larsen and Mr. Ellercott attended
them in their box. Amongst first-nighters were Mrs.
Doy Forrest, whose Arctic pelt was much admired,
Mrs. Gawler, Professor and Mrs. Ross, the Nathan
lady, Dr. and Mrs. Roy Mitchell, Alice Mallon and
Betty Simpson.
Mr. Frank Robertson’s Ladies’ Choir gave a success-
ful recital in the Karrakatta Club Hall. “The Snow,”
a part song, assisted by the violins of Margaret
Sharpe and David Powell, “The Mother’s Song” and
“Who Would Be a Merman Bold?” figured among
the attractive numbers. Irene Staneliffe, star among
the soloists, offered “Charmant Oiseau,” with David
Powell playing a violin obbligato. One never trembles
for Irene’s top notes; she always gets there with
effortless accuracy. Marion Field, Mrs. Graham,
Mrs. C. H. Walker and the Misses Grigg, Peterson,
Crawford, Walters and Henfrey appeared in solo
and trio numbers. Mrs. Frank Robertson, whose
golden tresses wave youthfully as ever after three
and a half years abroad, shared the accom-
paniments with Maritta Paskett. Jean Robertson
sold programmes in a white bunny coat.
Old scholars of the Girls’ High School, St. Hilda’s
predecessor, held a jolly dance in the Karrakatta
Club. Miss Parnell, who swayed the sceptre in the
Claremont seminary, chatted in a chenille gown
with her sometime pupils. St. Hilda’s principal,
Miss Small, wore white net ornamented with black
appliques; ticket sec. Mollie Munro was in tomato-
shaded romaine; bouffant parchment satins dad
Mrs. Max Rutter; dewdrop beads twinkled upon Mrs.
Stevenson’s flowered georgettes; Marjorie Beresford’s
blue color scheme was extended to her slippers;
Freda Lunt wore red; a shell-pink blush under white
ninon was chosen by Gwennie Francis; Mrs. Allan
Wilson had a gold lame coat over her flowered
taffetas; Mrs. Jack Hargrave’s patterned frock dis-
played a new neck arrangement; Mrs. Henry Mose-
ley and Mrs. 11. M. Burns wore black.
The Percy Armstrongs’ youngest daughter Nancy
has plighted a troth with Peter Rockingham, and
their elder son, Eric, has obtained a promise from
Mignonne, the unmarried Renou twin.
The Royal Perth Yacht Club spread itself for a
party with the Australia’s brass buttons as guests
of honor. A warm night, a waning moon in a sky
full of stare and the lap of rising tide made romance
to melt the most blase young heart. ’Roo paws,
smoke-bush and Iceland poppies decorated. Apricot
taffetas sprigged with petals clad Mrs. Felix Levin-
son, the Commodore’s wife. Mrs. Eugene Levinson
was in ciel-blues; Mi’s. Claude Unmack wore black
laces; Mrs. Reith Ross displayed a beautiful back
in her carnation-pink chiffons; Pat Lang’s brown
eyes sparkled above moulded pink satins; Phyllis
Thiel’s pink frock had a quaint little cowl collar;
Ver a Saw’s low-cut red gown glistened with silver;
jade and autumn shades predominated in Isobel Gold-
stein’s chiffons; Mrs. H. J. Clark was in royal-
blue ; a befrilled skirt rustled in Jean Hadley’s
pinky wake; Pauline Burgoyne wore a silver turban
with her green taffetas.
South Aus.’s menu:—
Mrs. A. K. Goode, president of the Housewives’
Association, invited members to an address given by
Mrs. Keith Ransom Kehler, M.A. of the Universities
of Michigan and Chicago. Later on Mrs. Kehler
will give a chat on “How to Make Houses into
Homes,” on American lines.
At the fete held in the grounds of Mrs. A. E.
Barker’s residence, Wingfield, at Prospect, two large
rooms were arranged for afternoon-tea, and over
100 children enjoyed a party on the tennis court. The
fete was to raise money for the Church of England
Boys’ Home at Walkerville. Lady Horc-Ruthven
performed the opening ceremony.
Dead, after a long illness, Charles Schilsky, of
wide European experience, who was already well
known in Australia as a visiting music-examiner,
before Adelaide Conservatorium got him to settle
there in 1924 as teacher of the violin.
Bridge parties for charity have been frequent of
late. Mrs. W. T. Shanassy organised one in aid of
the Royal Institute for the Blind, Mrs. B. H.
Morris another for the Adelaide Hospital Auxiliary,
and Mrs. Ray Kenihan a third for the Goodwood
Orphanage. Th e Minda Home benefited by another
arranged by the committee, and there was a bridge
and golf afternoon at the Mount Lofty Golf-house
to raise money for the Stirling District Hospital.
The Mount Osmond Country Club will hold another
on October 27 in aid of the Grey Ward Free Kinder-
garten.
Mrs. J. W. Sutherland, Mayoress of Glenelg, gave
an at-home at the Pier Hotel, Glenelg, to guests
who have assisted her on various committees during
her term of office. Miss Elsie Woolley and Mr.
Sable Grivell provided the musical programme, and
afternoon-tea was served in the lounge.
On Thursday night the Legacy Club held a bridge
night at the Palais Royal, when it raised £75.
Lady Hore-Ruthven attended and was received by
the president (Mr. McF. Harvey) and his wife. The
management of the Palais gave the use of the hall
free.
Local authors mainly provided Adelaide Repertory’s
latest evening: a cynically humorous trifle by Alec
Symons; a dream-fantasy by James Glennon (who
himself played the lead) ; and notably “The Flail
of God,” by Max Afford, showing the reactions of
various reporters to an execution, with a crazy hang-
man who regards himself as the instrument of divine
vengeance.


PROBAK
THE BETTER BLADE
FITS GILLETTE TYPE
RAZORS OLD OR NEW
Every PROBAK blade identical —-
made from long ribbons of steel,
ground, honed, finished in one con-
tinuous operation. Men everywhere
are forming this new PROBAK habit
—quicker, smoother, cooler shaves
than ever before. Dealers every-
where sell them. Prices: 2/3 small
packet; 4/6 large packet.
Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED,
181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
"IS-
IS sa
Im
:ir.&
se-as
£SSS
tea
•isK
KC
SfiT-sr*i
-
?>fo
sSs&fssli
3k
P
HSi
fe
m
£3”
Use |:
Auto Strop
Shaving
Cream
for best I;
results ■
There’s life in the
mellowness of
McCallum’s.... „
askforit!
(TFCallum’s
DISTRIBUTORS FOR. THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney Melbourne and Bnsbaiie.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fiemantle,
MACFARLAN'E BROS, k CO., Hobart, ...
Unrest in the Tropics.
FENG-SHUI TELLS A TALE OF HOW IT SOMETIMES BEGINS.
NATIVE UNREST” is a frequent head-
line in the newspapers of all the white
empires. If it occurs too often there
are demands for commissions of inquiry, and
the commissions produce bulky volumes of
“findings,” with appendices full of figures.
The findings and the figures are duly pigeon-
holed and forgotten, which is just as well,
for the story they tell has been told already
and the stories they don’t tell are generally
the most important.
Both Jonhson and Pa Bakea had been
waiting for the spring-time, though for dif-
ferent reasons. Pa Bakea was one of the
35 million native inhabitants of Java. Jonh-
son was one of the ten members of the staff
of a British oil company. Jonhson was
a bachelor with a thumping good salary,
leave every four years, passage paid both
ways to England, pension on retirement at
55." Pa Bakea had a wife and bye children,
a lease of one of the village ricefields and a
water-buffalo, purchased on time-payment,
with which to cultivate it. Pa Bakea’s only
education had been in the lore of the rice-
field and the jungle, but it is doubtful if he
was a less interesting person than Jonhson,
who had beep educated in one of those Eng-
lish private schools which ape the great public
schools. He came of a military family, and
his temperament expressed itself in moods
of black depression alternating with periods
of frantic energy. Pa Bakea was a happy,
productive individual, in tune with his
environment. Jonhson had fine instincts,
but most of them had been brutalised by his
education. He did his work badly because
it was not good form to show interest in
your business; he called the natives “niggers”
and the Dutchmen “squareheads,” and the
only uses he had for his leisure were destruc-
tive. If there were no snipe to shoot he
pulled the heads off the beetles that blun-
dered into the office.
It had been trying weather, as near drought
as you get in Java, close and hot as Gehenna,
with nights dead-quiet, when the brain-fever
bird came tapping at your temples hour after
hour with his insistent cry. For months the
mountains had been sheeted in cloud, their
shapes sometimes looming hugely underneath,
but oftenest quite smothered. Then the
spring came.
There is such a thing as spring in Java.
One day the mountains roll the clouds off
their sides and summits. The nights become
clear and crisp and glittering with stars,
hreezes spring up in the heat of the day to
temper the sun’s rays, and huge rolling rain-
clouds sweep in from the south, pour down
their showers and march on without pausing.
Now the kalis leap swifter-footed from the
mountains, and pour over the dry stubble of
the ricefields. Field overflows into field down
the long, cultivated slopes, till the whole
country is sheeted water. In a single day
the myriad squared lakes are pricked with
delicate blades of green, in another these
blades are springing to a height, in almost
another the satvali is overlaid once more
with the soft emerald carpet of the maturing
Cl °Murmur of water from the fields, from
the kalis, from the dripping palm crests;
clamor of frogs so blended with it that you
fancy the water sings; ringing, tinkling and
clattering of crickets, bar King of lizards
these make the spring song of the tropics.
You can feel the impulse as strongly as in
countries that are icebound in winter, feel
the movement of budding life, see the soil
expanding to it. It has called in the birds
to the nesting. Bach tall waringin-tree is
covered with birds —btaukok and kuntal —•
clustered there like great white blossoms. All
the woodwork of men’s dwellings is humming
with the building business of wasps and
insects of all sorts. Every living thing is
doing something. Laughing and shouting,
Pa Bakea and his sons are dragging the
plough from under the house, while his
youngest boy comes riding up on the back
of the water-buffalo. At the quarters Jonhson
is polishing his double-barrelled gun, and
whistling meditatively.
Jonlison was in a big boggy ricefield when
the buffalo charged him. Pie had just shot
at a snipe and missed, and possibly some of
the shot had flicked the hide of the animal.
Or perhaps the sight of the strange white
man angered it. Anyhow, it charged. Jonh-
son saw it was useless to run, so stood- and
quietly waited for it. He gave it one barrel
at 20 yards which merely flicked its nostrils,
and the other when it was scarcely a foot
away. The shot went clean throqgh the
upper jaw into the neck—the wound was
traced to a depth of three feet afterwards.
But the great pink beast never stopped for
an instant. His mind as clear and cool as
a bell. Jonhson threw himself flat, keeping
his feet towards the beast so that its seven-
foot horns could not reach his stomach. It
caught him on the groin, making a fearful
wound. Then it searched patiently around,
got him between the legs and tossed him.
He lay perfectly still then, and it stood off
and watched him. Presently he thought it
safe to try to move off slowiy. At the first
movement the buffalo came back and tossed
him twice again, each time catching him in
the .same wound with as much skill as if
it had had a lifetime of practice at goring
white men.
Jonhson kept still for a long time after
that, and his enemy moved away. Then half
torn in two, the white man started to crawl,
inch by inch, out of the ricefield. He had
to cross a stream, and the water nearly cov-
ered his nostrils. Still crawling on hands
and knees, he reached Pa Bakea’s village.
The first door he stopped at was shut against
him, and lie continued down the main street.
The natives had never seen a white man
walking down their street on hands and
knees before, and the sight filled them with
horror. White men are incalculable beings.
Their ideas of justice are incomprehensible.
They punish a native for spitting on the
public pavement, but a white man shooting
snipe can trample the dykes of your rice-
fields down and nothing rnfist be said about
it. So the safest thing to do with the queer
crawling Englishman was to go indoors and
pretend one hadn’t seen him.
Three of his colleagues who had also been
out shooting found Jonhson sitting in the
sun at the foot of a house ladder arid got
him home in a bullock cart. For several
days his life hung in the balance, and during
that time the white community was in a
ferment. The Englishmen suddenly found
Jonhson, who had hitherto been rather of
a butt in quarters, a wholly admirable fel-
low. They demanded that the village should
be punished for its callousness, and Pa
Bakea for being the owner of the buffalo.
The Dutch assistant-resident, a half-caste,
temporised. He pointed out that no legal
offence had been committed by the villagers,
that water-buffaloes never attacked natives,
and that if Jonhson had not been trespass-
ing the tragedy would never have happened.
The Englishmen hinted that the Resident
was in sympathy with the villagers, who
were obviously Communists. Rather than
risk being reported to his superiors by the
powerful British company, the Resident let
it be known that if the buffalo were de-
stroyed official curiosity would be conspicu-
ous by its absence.
Eight Englishmen, full of moral indigna-
tion, solemnly executed the animal. It took
a lot of killing. . Jonhson’s magnificent con-
stitution pulled him through, and in a month
he was well enough to be sent home on leave
by his sympathetic employers. Pa Bakea
had only paid off a third of the price of his
water-buffalo, which was now no longer in
a condition to earn him money. He had to
relinquish his field and go in quest of work
as a plantation coolie. He got into prison
through breaking one of the innumerable
rules governing indentured labor, and a
fellow-prisoner enrolled him in the Commu-
nist society. He drifted to Batavia just in
time to be mixed up in an attempted revolu-
tion. He and his comrades having seized the
post office, for a whole evening he believed
that the wlxite man had for ever been cast out
of Java, that the ancient native dynasty had
been restored, and that one of the first things
it was going to do was to give him another
water-buffalo.
In exiling him with several hundred others
to a portion of New Guinea which had never
been pacified and was full of head-hunters,
the Judge remarked that he would now have
an opportunity of working out liis commu-
nistic theories without interference from any
Government. , . ,
Pa Bakea’s family had lost their home
and disappeared amongst the vast proletariat
of Java. .
When Jonlison came back from leave lie
took a native mistress. The discovery that
she was Pa Bakea’s eldest daughter mignt
have provided this narrative with a dra-
matic close, but Jonlison never discovered it,
as he did not know enough of the language
ever to understand what on earth the girl
was talking about.
Love and' His Servant.
Love and I have gone together,
Golden wanderers in the dust,
Golden dust and golden weather,
Where Love goes his servant must.
We ate, when hungry, figs of thistle,
And drowsy, pillowed on a star,
And drinking at the Pig and Whistle
Found beer a new ambrosia.
Love and I have gone together.
Love has played a merry tune
On the roads by Hither-thither
In the countries of the moon.
Should we dance and play for money?
What is gold and silver more
Than enough of milk and honey?
Is Love, the merry vagrant, poor?
Love and I have gone together,
Stealing only what none misses,
In the golden days and weather,
Wayside roses, hearts and kisses.
LONDON.
D. P. MCGUIRE.
For Singing’s Sake.
In yon creekside river gum
Flits a little singing bird,
And the song that night-long,
Free of worry, free of care,
He pours forth upon the air
By the trees alone is heal’d.
While the birds of daytime sleep,
Thrush and magpie, wren and dove,
Through the night, hushed and bright,
From his haunt of greenery
He sends up glad minstrelsy
To the placid moon above.
Coin of gold he does not crave,
Copper coin or silver seek,
For the rare and -the fair
Music that he broadcast flings,
As he flies with shining wings
Through the gum beside the creek.
As the leaves through which he moves,
Wind-awakened, shine and shake
In the white light of night
This, and this alone, he asks—
Sure the sweetest of all tasks.
Just to sing for singing’s sake.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


J
i
It made its name ,
By what men say to other men*
Men—you’re mighty gossipers!
It $ a fact! See how one man
told another of the infinite good-
ness of Tooheys Pilsener, and
the glad message echoed and
re-echoed wherever men fore
gathered.
To-day, it is the most
popular of all light
lagers.
m
on
»e
NEW LIGHT LAGER
IN THE BOTTLE WITH THE
YELLOW LABEL
Vi-
ss
OPHIYS
EXPOfn
UCf*
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G P. 0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME .
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
y-
v+:*
V\N
0°
*
•;
o<


WARATAH
FENCE
"HINGED JOINT'
The “Hinged Joint”
and the “Tension
Curve” are two special
features of the
Waratah Fence.
In the event of
the wires be- /
ing distorted '
by a beast'
or other
cause, immedi-
ately the strain
is removed the
“Hinged Joint’’ allows
the fence to revert to its
original position. Th e
Waratah “Tension Curve’’
gives the fence greater
resilience, and prevents
the possibility of the
line wires fracturing
during frost.
/V
THE
WARATAH
FENCE COSTS
LESS TO BUY AND
LESS TO ERECT THAN
SINGLE WIRES 8 DROPPERS
CAN YOU AFFORD TO IGNORE
THIS SAVING?
Many farmers have the idea that it costs more to erect
an all-metal fence than an ordinary wire-and-dropper
fence. This is not the case. It is definitely cheaper to erect
a Waratah Fence, “Hinged Joint.”
In addition to the saving in first cost, the Waratah Fence,
“Hinged Joint,” offers you these other advantages:—
1 — It is fireproof
2 It is stockproof
3 -It is weatherproof
4 It will last a lifetime
I I 3 —The improved appearance will add to the
value of your property and will more than compensate for the first cost. It immedi-
ately suggests efficiency, safety and progress.
THE “WARATAH” FENCE, with the “Hinged Joint,” is made in three types: Special Heavy
Fence—Tyeasy High T ensile Fence —Standard Fence.
Waratah 5-line Sheep Fence, “Hinged Joint”; 5 lines —26in. high—pickets 12in. apart—Line wire spacings, 8,7, 6, 5 inches.
Three types. Packed in 5-chain rolls.
Waratah 6-line Sheep Fence, “Hinged Joint”; 6 lines—36in. high—pickets , 12in. apart —Line wire spacings, 9,8, 7,6,
6 inches. Three types Packed in 5-chain rolls.
Prices on application.
Special Fences are also available for Cattle, Lambs and Pigs. All are fully described and illustrated
in the Waratah Fence Booklet. Write in for your copy.
Stocked by Leading Merchants and Distributors throughout Australia.
Made in Australia from B.H.P. Newcastle Steel.
» MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD.
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Makers also of the following fencing materials: “Waratah” Wire Netting, “Waratah” Barbed Wire, and the famous
“Waratah” B.H.P. Star Steel Posts.
The OnkTHIIIGEO UQIHTFence MadeinAuS^alia
