

s
I
Hu
■
=
*
Ml
•;«
HH
i .
■: :• •••, .•
m
§§
■Ma* - vflw
Hr
,
. ■ '
m.
:
JHaggfcti
««*»>
■ t-
!..• ■,' i • .. ■
A
iSiBs'WWSs;
l •• • fc"* j
V'i
(Of
w»
m
K
5
WM
ik/ :'- I 'f' : L
A
\
li
(l:
;
It
c
MS
***■*
>~:
■
' ;> ' v • » - •
W
W ’
„ ,BtO
b° r ° . ■ C+roo«J
JtiiH ’
V-
...
d®
\vd s
V
vYv*
d*
ed
fcJ
HjVd*
\\ve
e
o'
ld e
td
\d
V
UeY
HIP
v*d v
&
0d et
ad
o
&
a
w' s
&P
s
CL
m
m
WVN
so
&
a*
O?*
ssjNV
o^ p
*o*
The Bulletin
d\> norths M&+V A, *?— fig
Vol. 52.—N0. 2679.
Wednesday, June 17, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OUR0 UR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
Mn Address
S.B. 131
(LYSAGHT7
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
KEEP YOUR THROAT HEALTHY
BY REGULARLY USiNG
ŕ
Universally recognised as a pleasant, safe,
and efficient remedy for all affections of
the throat, chest and lungs, and carrying
the endorsement of the medical profession
for over 40 years.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Strafford
By LADY BURGHCLERE. Illus-
trated. 2 vols. 30s. net.
An important historical study based
on hitherto unpublished MSS. pre-
served by Lord Fitzwilliam at Went-
worth Woodhouse.
Reminiscences
By LORD KILBRACKEN, G.C.B.
1 Os. 6d. net.
The outstanding feature of these
reminiscences is the vivid and intimate
account of Mr. Gladstone, whom the
writer served as private secretary for
many years.
The Endless Adventure
.By F. S. OLIVER. Vol. II now
ready. The first Parliament of
George 11., 1727-35. With por-
traits. 15s. net. Vol 1, from
1710 to 1727. 15s. net.
The “Times”: “Mr. Oliver’s second volume is
altogether worthy of his first. ... An outline
of the whole reign enables facet after facet of
character to be displayed, and the pen portraits
of these early pages are among the most
brilliant passages of the book.”
Above the Dark Circus
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
Nottingham “Guardian” : “A wild fantasy of
almost incredible happenings.”
“Elizabeth’s” New Novel:
Father
Recommended by the Book Society.
[Empire Library.
The “Times”: “ ‘Father’ is one of those
novels in the author’s comic vein which all her
readers enjoy.... a highly amusing story.”
Feb. Choice of the Book Society.
Tobit Transplanted
By STELLA BENSON.
[Empire Library.
The “Tatler”: “Her latest novel is very
remarkable indeed.... The humor and the
charm of the style in which the story is written
make it a delight to read.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One third of Queens! and 9 s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
®he (Courier*
has a Circulation which is>
approximately
68 °/o
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* # *
JFom can more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Marlcet, from :
3The (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
•Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth,
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
\/j%&AMAyycL&4!s6,
Jv Jixi&iSie j'Seu&n&e ,
SOupe,
* S&uesn fr
&ie 2&ru*ip iPurC&tf.
IheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES O
If any illustration in "The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Ma
who will quote you price for the or
The Red Page
Savage Mortals
It is not much of a wonder that H. S.
Ede’s Savage Messiah (Heinemann; 10s.
6d. net) is such a brilliant work. Biograph-
ers are rarely presented with such perfect
material as those extraordinary figures the
sculptor Henri Gaudier, who, when only 24,
was killed in France in 1915, and his fiercely
eccentric platonic companion Sophie
Brzeska, who died in a madhouse. Take
two incidents. Miss Brzeska, in one of the
violent quarrels that happened frequently
in about as strange a companionship as has
ever been chronicled, fell in savage pique
upon the damp clay of a bust of herself’ that
he had done and tore it to pieces. Gaudier
worked through the modelling of a head of
Enid Bagnolcl with blood streaming from
his nose, and continued working while the
sitter, unable to bear it any longer, tied
’ is face up with a rag taken from a bag in
r hich his and Miss Brzeska’s dirty clothes
'ere mingled. They were like that. They
let first in the St. Genevieve Library in
’aris in 1910, when he was 19 and she 39.
‘rom then until he went to the war they
antinued a companionship which, though
ley mostly shared the one room together,
ad even slept in the one vast and decrepid
ed, she insisted upon their keeping strictly
latonic. A scandal, started by a man she
ad rebuffed, caused them to go to London,
here Gaudier-Brzeska, as he called himself
lere —Savage Messiah, as he was called-
lent so much of a hack wage of a few
ounds a month in buying materials for his
ork that he literally starved himself into
thing of skin and bones. She starved with
!m, cooking on Monday all the little food
tat they would eat cold for the rest of the
eek, or until it was exhausted. Now and
ten she broke away from him and worked
other parts, and the bulk of this biog-
phy is composed of his burning letters
■ her at these times. Life in London
•ought them into touch with such people
; Frank Harris, Middleton Murry and
atherine Mansfield, and Gaudier’s letters
timate that the Murry-Mansfield associa-
m would make a stoiy almost as vital as
e Gaudier-Brzeska. Miss Brzeska and
atherine Mansfield, both of highly-strung
mperaments, clashed badly. Gaudier,
riously enough, seems to have enjoyed
e war; but he was not one to allow it
either brutalise or cower him. To-day
s fame rests upon two pieces of sculpture
rich have been pronounced exquisite,
is own work he destroyed with sub-edi-
rial. ruthlessness—one might add, Aus-
ilian artists please copy. When he had
me Miss Brzeska wandered about London
r a time, a strange, gaunt woman 'with
ort hair, no hat and shoes cut into the
rm of sandals. Then came the madhouse
:d death.
Normal Lot
To go from Savage Messiah to R. H.
ottram’s Castle Island (Chatto and
indus; 7s. 6d. net) is to step into a world
normal that it seems tired and dull,
inding up the trilogy saga of the Dormers,
is a thorough and beautifully written
•vel which somehow just fails to satisfy.
3 studies of youth, especially the opening
apters wherein Stephen looks out on his
3d Sea from his Castle Island, the roof
the bank, are as alive with normal boy-
iod and as understanding as L. A. G.
rong’s The Garden or Neil Gunn’s
orning Tide. There is, too, growth and
velopment. Young Stephen’s emergence
nn boyhood to youth and young manhood
is particularly sure; the war splash, for all
its brevity, is about as fine a thing as
Mottram has done; and the gradual chang-
ing of England, from the late ’nineties to
the current scene, happens as steadily and
surely on the page as it happened in fact,
and that is managed without recourse to
extravagances of character, or cocktail
parties, or chimney-mouthed flappers or
any of the other props, of the average
transition painter. The novel’s chief fault
is that it drags badly; there is a paucity
of incident. Yet it is probablv better than
nine-tenths of the novels that will be
churned out in this Year of Graceless
Fiction.
Something Livelier
Anyone who feels like a bracer after the
lethargy of Mottram’s novel will find noth-
ing unlively about Richard Aldington’s The
Colonel’s Daughter (Chatto and Windus;
7s. 6d. net). Both writers deal with much
the same sort of people, but their outlook
is so opposite that they would seem to be
dealing not merely with different sorts of
people but with
different kinds of
creation. Mottjam
uses somewhat
rose-tinted glasses;
Aldington a merci-
less X-ray. Aiding-
ton’s Colonel’s daughter, Georgie, and
Steven’s sister, Sydney, in Mottram’s novel,
are practically identical women ; but whereas
Mottram merely uses Sydney as scenery,
Aldington looks through Georgie to the
bones. His novel is an unsparing examina-
tion of her muddled and pathetic initiation
into matters of sex. He does not treat
only Georgie unsparingly. Everybody who
walks the page has his or her worst side
exposed, and comes to life much more
surely than does any of the adults of
Mottram’s gallery. Another thing that goes
to make it livelier reading is that it is
mostly told in dialogue, whilst Mottram’s
is mostly Mottram speaking—though Mott-
ram speaking is not conversation to be
sneezed at. The main difference between
them, however, seems' to me to be that
whilst Aldington has a new and fresh
picture to paint of England’s superfluous
womanhood and its struggle to achieve
sexual satisfaction, and attacks his job
freshly and with vigor; Mottram is telling
an old story of which even he himself has
become a little tired.
A Few Swindlers
Unlike the three books listed above, there
is nothing very literary about Charles
Carew’s Princes of Fake Finance (John
Long; 12s. 6d. net). Yet the author’s racy,
part-bantering manner admirably matches
his topic. It moves briskly, as his crooks
do. It is curious how Australia keeps crop-
ping up in their doings, though there is only
one good Australian among them: a lady,
six foot two and big with it. at. the moment
in gaol for sundry swindles. Others of
them come here for temporary respite, or
they import ingots of brass from here and
pass it off on English banks for gold, or
they have rich uncles here. General O’Brien
came to Australia, launched a wild rabbit-
poisoning scheme, went to France with the
A.1.F., subsequently became a General in
Ireland, and afterwards worked the boats on
the London-Australia run, until he was given
five yearn for inducing a millionaire to hand
over £50,000 for a plunge on a 50-to-l
Derby nag which romped in without a penny
on it. The very brightest of the whole
constellation, “Commodore” Weever, once
deposited stolen pparls in a Melbourne
bank and cleared out with an advance
against them of £16.000. His best effort
was to ship a whole Nicaraguan Cabinet
here on a fever-depleted Greek schooner.
He did it to help Don Lucien Ramones,
Weever having been released in the general
gaol delivery which followed Lucien’s
presidential coup d’etat. To oblige his
benefactor, Weever put the whole Cabinet,
plus the Chief of Police, under hatches,
went to sea, and cheerfully handed them
all over to the skipper of the Greek
schooner, who was so short-handed that he
signalled a request for a few men if at all
possible. Weever asked nothing in return,
except that the Greek skipper should make
things as hard as he could for the Chief
of Police, who had bagged him only a few
days before on a forgery charge. Carew has
gathered together an engagingly spectacular
crowd of scoundrels; his open admiration
for their daring and originality makes them
all the better reading.
Other Lights
I am not perturbed by the fact that I
read that book of Carew’s at a sitting,, what-
ever Freud would have to say about it. I
have always found crooks, from Milton’s
hero to the Newgate Calendar, the best of
vicarious company. Artists, actresses and
whales are other preferences; dogs, boys,
polar bears and beer are a few others.
And on account of the Way Sir James
Jeans deals with them, stars go cheerfully
into the list. Nothing can be more hateful
that the scientist who tries to popularise his
knowledge and succeeds in merely confusing
the reader with childish illustrations, the
sort of thing that makes most books and
lecturers on economics such bores. Jeans,
whose The Mysterious Universe is now in
its 75th thousand, is as friendly, as un-
pedantic and as companionable as ever in
his latest, The Stars in Their Courses
(Cambridge Uni. Press; Angus and Robert-
son; 7s. 6d.). His writing is as direct
as a spinster’s nose and as engaging as a
maid by moonlight. He makes the secrets
of the heavens a spectacle enjoyable and
understandable by everybody.
RED PAGE.
Lindrum at Ten Bob
Ask nine out of ten who have ha.d the
chance if they have seen Lindrum, and I’ll
wager those who have not will give as their
reason that "ten bob for a seat is too stiff.”
è


AnthqnyHordern s
“THE SENIOR STORE”
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ALWAYS THE TRUTH.
The warmth of
“Jumbuk” is
with him wher-
ever he goes.
/
/
m
M
*V' ?||
‘ Ju'mbuk ’
Registered
Trade-mark
YY/HO cares about the weather if
they have the protection of
“JUMBUK” Underwear. . . .the real
warmth of pure wool! The best only
goes into its manufacture —finest long
staple pure woollen yarn which is sub-
jected to a special shrinking process, the
most careful designing of proportions,
and dependable workmanship. The soft,
down-like surface of the fabric is fault-
less and will not irritate the tenderest skin.
And because the elasticity of the texture
permits easy body action “JUMBUK
Underwear fits perfectly. There is no
pulling or drawing to cause discomfort.
And the prices reveal a great triumph
in genuine value. “JUMBUK” warmth!
It is yours to enjoy this winter! Obtain-
able only from Anthony Horderns’.
Each and every garment is
guaranteed unshrinkable /
Men’s “Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton
Underwear, in medium winter weight.
Chest or waist, inches—
-34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48
Undershirts, short sleeves—
-7/6 8/- 8/6 9/- 9/3 10/- 10/9 11/6
Underpants to ankle—
-8/3 8/9 9/3 9/9 10/- 10/9 11/6 12/3
Men’s “Jumbuk” All-wool Underwear,
Athletic Undershirts, no sleeves. Cream
shade, light weight.
Chest size: 34 36 38 40 42 44
5/- 5/3 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/3
Medium weight Athletic, no sleeves. Nat-
ural shade.
Chest or waist, inches—
-34 36 38 40 42 44 48
7/- 7/3 7/9 8/3 8/9 9/3 10/6
Mep’s “Jumbuk” All Wool Underwear.
Light weight. Natural.
Chest or waist size, inches—
-34 36 38 40 42 44 48 50
Undershirts, short sleeves—
-7/6 7/9 8/3 9/- 9/9 10/6 12/6 13/6
Trunk Drawers—
8/- 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/3 11/3 13/-
Underpants—
-8/6 8/9 9/3 10/- 10/9 11/6 13/6 14/6
UNDER'
/
to*
m
%
y.Pi
IS AUSTRALIAN THROUGH AND THROUGH
Men’s “Jumbuk” All-wool Underwear,
medium winter weight. Natural shade.
Chest or waist size, inches—
-34 36 38 40 42 44 46
Undershirts, short sleeves—•
11/3 11/6 12/- 12/9 13/6 14/6 15/6
(Long sleeves, 1/- extra)
Underpants—
-12/3 12/6 13/- 13/9 14/6 15/6 16/6
Men’s “Jumbuk” Underwear. Natural All-
wool, extra warm winter weight.
Undershirts, half sleeves —
Sizes, inches
34 36 38 40 42 44 46
13/9 14/3 14/9 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/9
Undershirts, long sleeves—
-15- 15/6 16/- 16/9 17/9 18/9 20/-
Underpants—
-15/3 15/9 16/3 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/3
Boys’ “Jumbuk” Undershirts. Natural All-
wool, warm winter weight. Half sleeves.
Sizes, chest, inches —
20 22 24 26 28 30 32
4/6 4/9 5/- 5/9 6/6 7/3 8/-
e
ANTHONY HORDERN g SONS LTD., SYDNEY
Postal Addre.ss:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Chevrolets
MR
n
w
WM&
I( M
sip Hi
vAiSi
I
l
m-vsx%
5...4
/l
1
%
•
1
Y
£
a
Mill!
m
il&Zc
i ':■•■-■■■.
t
fill
*
L
I
SR
A week-end at your Country Club, a trip to some distant beach, or a prolonged tour through the bush
is made more enjoyable by the restful comfort xvhich the New Chevrolet provides. Regardless of
difficult conditions, your mind is easy. Such is Chevrolet’s world-wide reputation for reliability.
Built in Australia for all Conditions
of Service
The N3W Chevrolets may be pur-
chased on the G.M.A.C. Deferred
Payment Plan, which is dependable,
liberal and friendly. It is an economi-
cally sound method of buying, and
is designed to fit the needs of each
purchaser. The Plan is based on a
policy of goodwill and understanding,
and provides for a flexibility of ap-
plication in cases of emergency.
IV/r OTORISTS all over Australia are
pleasantly surprised to find in this
great new car, so many luxury car features
combined with Chevrolet’s long-famed
reputation for reliability and genuine all-
round economy.
And yet in the far “Out back,” cars have a
totally different job from those of the
cities. Because of this, the New Chevrolet
program provides an unusually wide range
of body styles, designed individually for
specific conditions of usage. All of the
3>2i models available are built to a single
high standard of quality.
Of great importance to both town and
country buyers is the fact that beneath the
New Chevrolet’s stylish exterior is the
famous Chevrolet chassis, strengthened
and refined to provide even better ser-
vice, with real economy of operation.
Whether you dwell in town or country, you
will find a New Chevrolet admir-
ably suited to your particular needs
Liberal Owner Service Policy.
Every precaution is exercised to deliver
each new General Motors motor vehicle to
the purchaser complete in every detail and
in the best mechanical condition. Arrange-
ments are provided whereby each vehicle
will have two thorough inspections and
adjustments at the most critical period of
its life without cost to the owner, who is
entitled as well to the benefits of free ex-
pert mechanical advice at any time. In
addition, to cover any possibility of defec-
tive material or workmanship, the owner
has the full protection of the General
Motors Warranty.
Consult your local dealer,
CHEVROLET
PRICES
start at
£235
All Models equipped *
with Wire Wheels.
e


BILLABONG
Australian-made Pumps
Billabong Pumps stand alone for efficiency and durability. Our many
years’ experience in the manufacture of pumping and irrigation
machinery accounts for the superiority of all Billabong Pumps and the
great popularity they have won throughout the Commonwealth. It y° u
are wanting a Pump
For Farm, Home, Factory, Etc.,
it will be worth while to tell us of your requirements and get our
prices. We shall also be glad to advise on Pumping and Irrigation
Equipment.
NOTE.—AII Billabong Pumps carry our guarantee.
If you are thinking of installing a Windmill wc shall be glad to forward
you, post free, our Billabong Windmill Booklet.
Q.
orffttifftifiitnii
mini
JOHN
&SON
gUllllllllllllltllllir
miimuiiiimimd
: lX£,
pry-
-391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.L
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
There are, unhappily enough, many who
could say that with bitter sincerity; but
here I would speak of the others, those who
can afford, say, 7s. 6d. for a novel, 3s. for
an afternoon’s football, from 3s. to £1 to
see a fight, up to Bs. to see a musical
comedy, 10s. to see the tote mount another
one, 3s. 6d. to shout for four, 7s. or Bs. for
a fishing-line, or £1 for a woodcut. From
any of these—the list could be extended for
a column —the “too stiff” is merely a form
of hypocrisy. It is excuse, not reason.
The reason is that they would rather spend
the money on something which more
strongly appeals to them, not that they con-
sider it too much to spend on seeing
Lindrum. That, they do not consider at all.
If they were realists enough to do so, they
would recognise at a glance the nature of
the bargain.
The truth is that the alleged materialists,
realists of this allegedly material, realistic
age, are poseurs pure and simple. Actually,
they are romantics, as they always have
been. The number of realists over the
age of 16 in the world probably wouldn’t
fill a cowyard. Boys, of course, are realists
by and large; it is when they have reached
the age of thinking that ten bob to see
Lindrum is too stiff that they become
romantics, a flowery term meaning hypo-
crites, or, not to be harsh, self-illusionists.
Their illusion here is that in holding ten
bob too stiff they are being realistic. A
demonstrable fallacy. A realist lives in, and
for, reality, which is experience. He does
not collect, as realities, books, or brass
Buddhas, or gramophone records, or stamps,
or paintings, for he knows them for what
they are, illusions. He collects, instead,
experience, and pays for it. In other words,
he lives realistically, not at second-hand.
It is, by the way, a of those who
dislike sport of any kind that watching
sport of any kind, instead of playing it, is
living at second-hand. Of course it is not.
Watching it is a reality, an experience. It
is reading about it that is illusory, whether
the writing be the allegedly realistic non-
sense of the Sunday football columns or the
equally nonsensical Kipling pandering to
the romantics about muddied oafs. And
the same applies to looking at pictures of it.
But that, as I said, is by the way.
The realist watches Lindrum because he
knows that only thus can he experience the
reality of Lindrum, just as he goes along to
see Chaplin in “City Lights” and curses at
seeing him also in the gazette without his
get-up, since it is only in that get-up on the
screen that Chaplin is a reality. Lindrum
in the street, or at a luncheon, or over the
wireless, or in his book, or as reported, is
not Lindrum at all—he is a mere masquer-
ader under the name of Lindrum. There
is only one real Lindrum, and that is the
Lindrum at the billiard-table. It is—con-
founding the hate-sports—no illusion to
watch him there. You cannot be Lindrum,
and you cannot emulate him. The alterna-
tive the hate-sports offer to watching sport is
that you should play it yourself. But you
cannot play the game Lindrum plays, and
after you have seen Lindrum play, your own
billiards is at the worst an absurdity and
at the best a romance, an illusion.
If you are realistic, you realise, however
good you are, that either you are or Lindrum
is not playing billiards. One of you is
playing some other game; but wherever
you decide upon fixing the label, on Lin-
drum or on yourself, it does not affect the
reality of Lindrum. He, and he alone, can
play the game he plays. That is worth
remembering. And if the world were
peopled with realists, people who live by
and for experience, it would be generally
recognised that, instead of being too stiff
at ten bob, it is an experience worth a
good deal more. Money being only what
money will buy, it is, on any comparison of
values, a basement bargain without
approach. The fighters of the fight men-
tioned somewhere earlier in this article
would be, comparatively speaking, tenth-
raters, and therefore a commonplace experi-
ence. The horse upon which the chap who
regards Lindrum as too stiff at ten bob
cheerfully wagers a like amount would stand
near the bottom of a mountainous list. The
novel likewise, the footballers also, the
musical-comedy ditto, and the rest ditto
ditto.
Not in any of these, nor, as far as I can
think, in anything else in the world is com-
parative supremacy invested to anything
like the degree that it is invested in Lin-
drum. The best novelist in the world, the
best poet, the best play, the best fighter, the
best anything—none is, so far ahead of his
rivals as Lindrum is of his. At least, not
as far as I, or you, know.
I am asked every now and then, on behalf
of some Service Page reader who believes
in having ’em docketed, to name the world’s
best living novelists, or poets, or novels,
or poems, or plays, in order of merit. I
admit naturally that I can’t do it. Neither
can anyone else, except the old gentleman
with the glass and scythe, and even he, for
all I, or you, know, may be, like all other
illusions, a liar and a cheat. Quite care-
lessly, he might from day to day drop
masterpieces down his sink; and even if he
did this deliberately and maliciously I
don’t see that we could blame him, having
regard for the way we overwork the poor
old blighter at keeping so many wretched
clocks ticking. Anyway, he is notoriously
slow at giving up a verdict, and pending his
decision that Yeats is so much the poet that
only fools would have considered a second to
him, neither I nor you can find any parallel
for Lindrum. I can think of no one who
could give the next best of his kind in the
world the equivalent of 7000 start in a
fortnight’s play and a beating. No golfer,
no virtuoso, no machine, no flower, no jewel,
no telescope, no animal, no painter, no
drinker, no thing.
Lindrum is not only the world’s best
billiardist; he is the world’s best. That, of
course, does not argue him the world’s most
important. Not by any means. ’ A book
that is to-day languishing on the second-
hand shelves, a painting that the Felton
trustees have cast into the vaults may be
much more important, because they are
illusions, and to an illusory world illusion
and its import are everlasting.
No; is that final?
Lindrum, the reality, is but ephemeral,
but there is also Lindrum the illusion.
And in a world where all but illusion
perishes, the illusion of him may still be
immortal. But his reality, that is like the
Wild Man from Borneo, it is here to-day
and gone to-morrow. Like all reality—as
distinct from illusion, which can be tasted
over and over at will—the experience of
Lindrum, the supreme, can be grasped only
now or never.
Sueh an experience is not, I submit, dear
at ten bob. It is dirt cheap. It is unique.
And what must one say of the fact that
you can see him for half a crown?
CECIL MANN.
A Satchel of Books
3he Perfect Hostess, by Rose Henniker
Heaton (Methuen; 7s. fid. net). An “amus-
ing but serious and necessary book” satis-
factorily describes this capital little volume.
The author gives shrewd advice on the
hostess’s job, from seeing that the visiting
cricket team has plenty of drink to taking
wattle along to sick persons with a drop of
Australian blood in their veins, and from
leaving plenty of matches about the house
to entertaining a Prime Minister. She does
it more divertingly than present reviewer
imagined it could possibly be done. The
decorations by Alfred Taylor further help
to make it a perfect gift book for women of
all ages and amusing reading for anyone.
Olives Are Scarce, by Edward Yates
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d. net), is a full-length
portrait of one of those girls who righteous
women agree are not “nice”; and it has all
the signs of having been copied faithfully
from life. Olive is a dear, but she has no
morals in the conventional sense and a lasci-
vious tongue and mind. Young Jimmy Hales
—English as she is cosmopolitan; faithful as
she is incontinent; serious as she is gaily
irresponsible —falls in love with her on sight
the week he arrives in India, and loves her
till he dies. They don’t marry. At first she
won’t because she doesn’t care enough, and
she rejects him years afterwards, when he
has become the only man for her, for the
characteristic reason that chasing her has
become a habit with him, and “men mustn’t
give up habits, like work and drink.” A
witty and honest book, with some absorbing
sidelights on a social milieu that few modern
writers have touched.
From Day to Day, by Ferdynand Goetel
(Elkin Mathews; 7s. fid. net). This brilliant
study by a leading Polish writer is written
in the form of a journal by the principal
character, who describes day by day his
spiritual reactions to his present environment
while he is composing a novel on his pre-
vious experiences as a prisoner of war in
Turkestan. Extracts from his novel throw
light from one direction on his soul while his
personal musings throw illumination from
another. The result is a remarkably arrest-
ing portrait, instinct with drama and poetry.
The author has brought off an immensely diffi-
cult job with complete assurance.
Ex-Deputy Sheriff Sandy Gordon is the
hero of Robert Ames Bennet’s The Hunted
Wolf (Collins). He is rounding up for the
Bar K when Don Victorio Chay crosses his
path. Helen Alton, a good and beautiful
girl but a poor psychologist, is impressed
by the Don, who. amongst other secret
crimes, has murdered her father. Comes the
time, however, when “old County Court
Judge H'ayes, dozing over an affidavit m
liis courthouse, is awakened by Sandy’s
sharp demand.”
“Howdy, Judge! I want a warrant pronto against
Victorio Chay, alias Wayne Moul, for the murder of
Dr. Henry Alton.’’
It is the beginning of the end so far as
Chay is concerned, but Sandy narrowly
escapes playing lead in a necktie party
organised by the enemy before the end comes.
Great stuff for readers of the mental age
of, say, 14.
“It’s all right,” says Patience, heroine of
Pauline Warwick’s The Girdle of Venus
(Mills and Boon; 7s. 6d.), “as long as he
thoroughly understands that we’re not in
“Jane Eyre.” But they are in “Jane Eyre”
from the moment the gentle governess meets
her terrifying employer (“Patience dropped
her eyes and felt a faint color stealing into
her cheeks. Idiotic schoolgirl!”) till she
tames and marries him. The girls in this
romance are well drawn, but Sir Edward,
the elderly lie-man, who alternately displays
the manners of a bad-tempered hog and the
suave charm of a Valentino, is unconvincing
as the answer to a 1931 maiden’s prayer.
For the matter he wasn’t very convincing
when Charlotte Bronte first exploited him as
an early Victorian. Nearly half this novel
is about Greece, which the writer evidently
knows, and the dialogue is well done.
Paul Garroway • — Priest, by Sean McGuire
(Cecil Palmer; 7s. 6d.). The blurb says we
have here “an author who is rapidly estab-
lishing for himself a reputation as an enter-
prising and original thinker.” And all the
seeker of deep stuff can find is this kind
of thing:—
“The Sphinx’s immemorial calm,” he quoted as
they halted in front of that strange monument. “I
wonder what it can mean.”
“Lots of people have stood where you are now and
wondered that and many other things,” Singleton
said.
The best features of this story of a parson’s
love are the war-time scenes in France, but
there isn’t a new one in the lot.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned) unless stamps accompany.
T. 5.11.: Too much wind in the balloon
poem.. . .H.C.: Afraid the habit of calling people
natural children in friendship is somewhat worn
as a topic... .Unw: Really, it is awful E.M.: No
hankering to see the ghosts of Wentworth House in
print... .H.E.: “Cigarette” burnt very we 11... .E. 8.:
All right:—
He loved her with a devouring affection.
Woman like, she sought him. Then he hopped.
She pursued, for she knew where he was eating.
Woman like, she caught him —then he popped
(Not the question). She was fleaing. He was
tracked.
His death was horrible. And sudden. He was cracked.
. ...E.E.M.: Dunno where you could place his work
on that sample. It has merits, but there are
hundreds trying to get into print with a bit better.
... .H.T.: Trouble with both “Woman” and “The
Happy Island” is that they are composed mostly of
rather familiar phrases.... 8.M.: Such similes as that,
picturing the chilling days of winter looming like a
mast, would spoil anything... .N.11.M.: Make a study
of the craft for the next seven years and you'll
probably do better... .T.A.C.: Can’t agree with your
professor friend that the work is good. He didn’t
have to back his opinion by publishing it... .R.M.J.:
Suggests that you haven’t grasped the full signifi-
cance of the American term “gold-diggers”....
A.R.S.: Nearly as tame as a stadium prelim.; and
you had a tip-top chance, t 00... .D.T.11.: One thing,
the depression seems to have produced a new race
of poets... .J.L.O’D.: Fairly good, but it clangs too
much Austral: Opening stanza of “Tragedy of the
Sea”:—
On a sunny Sunday morning,
Quite late in the summer season,
Two girls and two boys a-'swimming
Went, while their fond mother and Don,
Their young brother, the meal for the
Middle of the day prepared—that
Meal —oh, how sad ! —was not to be,
For the sea claimed the girl named Pat.
.... J.C.R.: Sorry; can’t reply personally, and can’t
use anything that has seen print... .E.N.D.: “Flesh
and spirit part.” So do muse and poet.... Duco:
The postscript was its one shining moment....
Observer: What you say about Australia is true
enough, but it is being said more vigorously....
P.O’M.: Not to this taste, but you might place it.
... .G.W.F.D.: You seem to have something to say,
but you make a frightful struggle of trying to say
it... ,l:t. : Send it to the secretary of the Mechanics’
Institute.... L.H.: Don’t echo any more. Try to say
something you think and feel... .A. 11.: Glad to hear
your soul is singing. Sharpen your quill and give it a
chance... .Male: Do you really think a thing with
lines in it like “And down the lanes of memory I
follow reminiscence’s lure,” and “When I got back to
the unit they were in billets behind the line” can
possibly be good verse ?.... Boke: Takes too long to
do its job... .Bellerive: A touching brevity:—
THE COW-FISH.
Displaying the colors
Of the bending rainbow,
The peculiar cow-fish
Glides to and fro.
They abound in the y
Waters of Western Port.
In fine weather rise
To the surface to sport.
(An arresting new serial, entitled “Poems of Tas-
mania/’ begins next week.)
....Spindrift: Delicate, but that is its only merit.
N.M.: Story of the French soldier who rose from'
private to general in the Napoleonic wars looks
as if you had got in touch with the spirit of Conan
Doyle... .D.M.C.: Steve O’Brien (“Jack Shay” of
many a Bulletin par.) inspired Lawson to write
“Who’ll Wear the Beaten Colors Now?” The storv
was told in the Jubilee Number of The Bulletin
(29/l/’3O) E.M.D.: You should be able to dispose
of it locally J.M.F.: Like parts of it, but a
stronger ending is needed E.L.1.: So that old yarn
about the cigar ash saving a railway traveller from
a criminal charge is still going the rounds? L.IL:
Well handled, but we have read something similar
elsewhere A.D.: Try the English market—they
like that sort of stuff.. . .E.L.M.: Told more humor-
ously it might have scored M.S.: You tie the
threads neatly, but what frayed threads! E.S.:
“Cupboard Skeletons” should never have been let
1005 e... .E.M.F.: Subject is too big for you
K.F,: Rambling C.M.: O’Grady deserved better
treatment...-N.A.D.R.: Showed promise at the
beginning, but the promise faded J.U.W.: Not
keen on another meeting with Westy D.C. J.: A
good yarn spoilt by overdone sentiment and melo-
drama. .. .H.W.: Exciting in places, but ground has
been gone over too often... .W.F.C.: Jesting bachelor
was last heard chuckling to himself in corner of
w.p.b R.L.P.: Time they buried that dead horse
—they’ve been raffling him for years... .D.A.S.:
College-magazine stuff... .C.E.S.: Not putting the
oasis on the map....G. Back: Too late; both used.
... .Barida: Meat in it; but too big a joint for these
days.... Walter H.: Too far-fetched; and the marks
of the machine are upon it C.8.A.: Hard to
swallow; and the Premier’s plan is heavy on our
chest already J.J.H.: Beaten too thin Horton
B.: That one wants the drill sergeant on to it for
a week. At present very muddled John L.: Un-
imaginative; out of date... .E.T.: Why does “music
straight from Heaven” inspire you to write poetry
straight from Ella Wheeler Wilcox?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.W.: You need practice and plenty of it....
8.R.A.: Both cry aloud for redrawing E.F.:
Jumble of wild and loose lines; also debilitated jest.
. ...M.T.: Draggle-tailed art... .W.C.J.: Make them
larger and bolder; and send original jokes... .A.D.:
About as many mistakes in it as there are politicians
in Australia... .H.H.: Don’t use pale-blue notepaper,
a faint pencil, Souter’s ladies or stale jokes....
M.L.L.: Raw... .W.D.: As we have never seen a cow-
farmer wearing a smock, drawing is suspect ....
A.M.E.: Doesn’t get beyond mediocrity... .S.F.A.:
Stiff... .C.J.: The oldest oldest-inhabitant joke in
the world... .R.M.0.: Just like a thousand other
drawings of a girl fibbing about her age... .8.W.: “Do
not kill it with unkindly criticism.” No need to;
it was dead when it arrived... .W.M.L.: Muzzle that
pair A.R.: You slump badly when you attempt
wash drawings... .S.N.: Of course it’s not lifted.
No paper would have printed it G.S.: Picture of
fat female falling from window-sill declined.
....N.M.: Erratic draughtsmanship F. 8.: Hands
badly drawn... .W.L.G.: A chestnut....R.S.: Some
humor, but not enough.


re


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2679.
June 17, 1931.
INVOLUNTARY CONVERSION.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
NVestralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elseivhere: sd. •
THE CONFERENCE’S PLAN.
The best that can be said of the plan
devised by the Premiers’ Conference is that
it once threatened to be worse. It was
agreed in a nebulous fashion that wages,
salaries, etc., in all the public services must
come down 20 per cent., including recent
reductions; in equally nebulous fashion it
was agreed that pensions and certain social-
service payments must be reduced by about
12i per cent. Much more definitely it was
resolved that there must be a 22j- per cent,
reduction in the interest charges on the
internal debt. But at that point the con-
ference became vague and sketchy again.
There is to be a “voluntary” conversion
loan, covering the whole of the internal
debt, interest being reduced by 22J per
cent.; those holders who do not give notice
of are to be taken to consent; and
the term for the most part is to be 30 years,
with rights of prepayment, although a few
loans falling due early are to come up for
redemption in seven years. But of what is
to happen to those who do not accept con-
version not another whisper is heard, though
everybody knows that a penalty of some
kind is waiting for them.
There is no course open to The Bulletin
but to wish the scheme well and to help
make the conversion a success. No time
is left for further parleying. Our putty
Prime Minister has wasted the better part
of a year, largely because he has been in
the hands of the evasive Theodore; now
in desperation we have to swallow almost
anything to avoid default and disgrace.
Conversion for 30 years in order to tide
over a temporary difficulty takes a good
deal of swallowing.
In any case conversion brings no relief
in itself ; it is only the reduction of interest
that' brings relief. The conference plan
demands a per cent, reduction of in-
terest over anything up to 30 years, but
with no relief of more than 221 per cent,
in any one year; whereas taxation of
interest without conversion might have
given, say, a 50 per cent, relief the first year,
and a 40 per cent, relief for two years there-
after. Even with those heavy payments, if
the crisis were over by 1935 and the tax
could be then withdrawn, the bondholder
would pay less than one-fifth of what con-
version will cost him. In three years a
person in receipt at present of £lOO interest
from loans will pay £67 10s. under the 30-
year conversion scheme; taxed 50, 40 and 40
per cent, for the first three years he would
pay £l3O. But thereafter he would pay
nothing, while under conversion he will go
on paying £22 10s. per annum for another
27 years, though they may be years of
great affluence—£67s in all.
However, just, as certain members of the
conference doubtless made large concessions
in order to reach finality of some sort,
critics of the scheme must make conces-
sions now that it is complete. It is part
of the price we have to pay for our poli-
tical system—that wretched system under
which the professional vote-catcher views
everything in the light of its probable effect
on his own miserable little job, and on
his party’s chances of power and perquisites.
But, after all, this per cent, cut in
interest will go only a very little way
towards wiping out the deficit which looms
ahead of us next year. If things were to
run on as they have been going, there
would, it is estimated, be a deficit of 40
millions for the 12 months to June, 1932.
The interest reduction will not amount to
more than about 3 millions, after allow-
ing for diminished revenue from income
tax. Forgetting for a moment that taxa-
tion instead of conversion could have given
us 10 millions at least, we see that the vast
bulk of the saving has still to be made—
that another 37 millions must be got from
somewhere, or else not got at all, but left
for the future to pay. Thus infinitely the
largest part of the plan of salvation has
sti.V to be worked out and put into opera-
tion.
Long ago The Bulletin said it did not
believe that any one political party could
carry this great job through. Nothing has
happened to alter that opinion. Least of
all is it likely that any Labor Government
in the Commonwealth or N. S. Wales can
do it—at any rate without disaster. In
N. S. Wales Lang declares that the only
way of salvation he can see is by carving
all salaries down to £5OO. The announce-
ment is significant. It means that Lang
has chosen a course from 1 which he hopes
to gain something whether he goes ahead
with it or abandons it: which he will do
will depend on what he can do with most
advantage to himself and his plans.
Perhaps nobody knows what those plans
are; but it is fairly clear that behind him
there is an unseen force quite unknown to
the Constitution of N. S. Wales—the un-
seen force which drove him, for example,
to repudiate a British debt after he had
declared to the electors that his party
loathed repudiation and would have noth-
ing to do with it. The Soviet aim is to
abolish private capital and its rewards; and
all that Lang did at the conference —and
it was a very great deal—and all that he
has undertaken to do since is quite in line
with the best Communist practice. A thou-
sand times the apathetic public has been
told that the world’s great Communist
forces welcome financial stress because it
gives them a chance to suggest their own
way out of it and cunningly put it into
operation. The way that Lang took at Mel-
bourne and has been taking since may be
Lang’s way; but it is the way that Moscow
undoubtedly approves.
The question is therefore whether we can
trust this man to carry out a scheme for
the redemption of N. S. Wales; whether
indeed he really wants to redeem N. S.
Wales; whether the salvation that he seeks
for it is not an entirely different salvation
from that which plain non-revolutionary
people desire. Elsewhere—as at Canberra—
there may be Ministers of clay; but, at any
rate, they are capable of being moulded
into right shapes. They may therefore
carry the scheme through. Mr. Lang will
carry it just so far as it helps him to wreck
the present social order.
FIVE HUNDRED A YEAR.
Dogsbone and Muggins are farmers work-
ing alongside one another under practically
identical conditions of soil and climate.
But there are differences. When Dogsbone
isn’t working about his place he is learning
how to improve his methods and his crops.
He puts his harvester under cover in the
winter, and finds a better use for the horse-
rake than to fill a gap in the fence with
it. He keeps a bit in hand, buys well and
sells well. Muggins is most of what Dogs-
bone isn’t. He is careless of his plant and
careless in his farming. His land is dirty,
and he is always too late to do much fallow-
ing. If he averages eight bushels when
Dogsbone averages twelve he does well; and
Dogsbone gets threepence more for his
wheat. Muggins is always at the store for
spare parts; his repair bill is twice the size
of Dogsbone’s, and his gear doesn’t last
more than half as long. Dogsbone can show
a clear farm and a few hundreds in the
bank; he makes a thousand a year in a fair
season. Muggins is no further out of debt
than he was when he started; his family
still has to put up with the discomforts of
the original humpy; and if he makes three
hundred clear he has a spree on the strength
of it. The question is, Who should be
encouraged to go on the way he is going—
Muggins or Dogsbone?
The Premiers’ conference in Melbourne,
impressed with the plea for “equality of
sacrifice,” decided to cut interest and
reduce by 20 per cent, the wages bill of the
Governments. To each State was left the .
responsibility of working out a plan of
wage-reduction within its own borders.
Lang, of N. S. Wales, was ready with his
scheme. He would, so he said, cut down
all salaries above £5OO to that figure so
that the lower-paid men might escape
altogether. Governor, Chief Justice, Rail-
way Commissioner—all should be lopped
down to £5OO. Our friends Dogsbone
and Muggins are not in the public service,
and therefore are not directly inter-
ested in Lang’s latest plan. But what is
good sauce for the public servants is good
sauce for the others; if it is just to reduce
all public salaries to £5OO, it is equally just
to take from the industrious Dogsbone by
taxation all that he earns in excess of £5OO.
What would happen if we did?
In the first place, of course, Dogsbone
would ask why he should earn more than
£5OO. The manufacturer would ask why he
should extend his factory and employ more
labor. And why should the engineer who
has earned his £5OO do a thing more for 12
months towards the progress of the world?
At school they proceed differently. It is the
lad who does best who gets the awards; it
is the lazy or indifferent boy who gets
the punishment. Something, it is realised,
has to be done to kick the slothful out of
his laziness or indifference. And the some-
thing is done.
During the past few years we have made
a great pretence of being in deep sympathy
with the under-dog, the under-dog having
lately been given a vote. Here in Aus-
tralia, where we have cheerfully assumed
that we could afford to do things impossible
anywhere else, we have adopted a living
wage based not on earnings but on alleged
needs. The time was bound to come when
the system w T ould break down. It has only
been maintained by colossal borrowing:
that is to say, by the appalling meanness
of passing on part of the bill to the next
generation. Now we have come to the
point where we must either say that we
abandon all the impossible foolishness or
discover somebody else to pay the bill.
The plea, of course, is in such cases that
taxation ought to be imposed on those
best able to bear it, and that Dogsbone can
better afford it than Muggins. But that is
begging the whole question. Dogsbone is
not better able to pay than Muggins ought
to be; the only reason Muggins isn’t able
to do what he ought to be able to do is
that he is lazy, incompetent, careless and
unthrifty. So Dogsbone is penalised for
his virtues and Muggins is rewarded for
his vices. . Not for one moment is it sug-
gested that the poor are poor always because
of their faults. They can be victims of
political or other roguery, of sickness, of
bad seasons. But, notwithstanding all that,
the fault of every form of income tax is
that it is a tax on all those virtues upon
which we depend to make a country prosper-
ous, while it encourages by its exemptions
all those vices which fill the gaols during their
owners’ youth and middle age, and the
infirmaries and refuges when they are old.
In a more perfect State, no doubt, we
should all serve according to our ability, for
the good of the common cause. The extra-
good carpenter would neither seek payment
nor be paid for his superiority: he would
be content with no more money than the
butcher. And the great surgeon would not
ask a larger fee for mending a broken
human frame than the tinker would demand
for soldering a leaky pot. But only the
utterly lunatic believe that the world is
anywhere near that condition of mind yet.
Every experiment in Communism has been
shipwrecked on that rock. The greatest
experiment of all, now in progress in
Russia, is sloughing its principles one by
one: it finds it necessary to offer capital-
istic rewards for extra energy, extra care,
extra devotion. A week or two ago there
was a Communist raid upon the Sydney
Trades Hall, and Garden, the ablest Com-
munist politician and propagandist in Aus-
tralia, fled for his life by an accidentally-
unguarded side door. It was merely one
more of a million demonstrations of anger
at the breakdown of Communism in prac-
tice—at the failure of Communist leaders to
perform what they promise.
How much a man can really earn nobody
knows. But it is the experience of almost
every employer that those who are paid
the most earn what they get more certainly
than those who are paid the least. Progress
is always in the hands of the few; and it is
so with industrial progress as with every
other. The world has witnessed the most
astonishing changes during the past 40
years, and less than a thousand men have
been responsible for most of them. We
have seen the developments in Australia as
elsewhere. Forty years ago when heavy
zinc-bearing ores came in at Broken Hill
they were believed to be the end of the
field. Experts were hurried from most parts
of the world to deal with them. They could
see no daylight ahead. But a few men
toiled in their laboratories and workshops
—Greenway, Potter, De Bavay and Brad-
ford—and a process was evolved which not
only gave an average of 6000 men a half-
century’s more work at Broken Hill, but
provided Tasmania with its great electro-
lytic-zinc industry at Risdon.
Lang’s proposal is probably all bluff: he
is merely dressing his shop window. But
it will serve a very good purpose if it begins
to arouse protest against our income taxes
run mad. For, after all, this proposal,
though it has awakened such opposition,
carries things only a few steps further than
they have reached. There are men who are
paying up to 14s. in the £ of their income
in income taxes of one sort and another:
the new scheme is merely to collect a
further 6s. in the £.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
False Wage Standards.
Let us try to get the point of view of the
men who don’t agree with us.
Admitted, they say, that there are over
300.000 people out of work in Australia;
and admitted that the sweeping away of all
arbitration and industrial awards might lead
to the employment of a few thousand more
men and women. The result would be
to lower the pay of perhaps 10 times more
than would be freshly employed: in short,
the cut rates of pay would be made the
general rates, and no country ever achieved
prosperity through low wages. So, they
argue, the best thing for the country is to
keep those who can’t get employment at
the fixed rates on the dole, and make those
in work and the people with the big incomes
pay. In time the world will recover; then
we shall all be back at work at the old
uncut rates.
The weak point in all this is that the
old rates were never earned. It ought to
make us ashamed to remember that for
more than a dozen years we have been
pocketing money which we and our child-
ren and our grand-children will have to
repay—unless, of course, we repudiate the
debt ; and we have begun to do it, the con-
version loan being a species of repudiation,
disguise it as we may. For seven years
we borrowed at the rate of nearly 40 mil-
lions a year; in other words, our wages
and living conditions generally were fixed
not by what we produced, but by what we
produced plus about 40 millions a year.
In ow we are not only without that annual
40 millions; we have to pay interest on it,
and if we fail it is quite possible that our
creditors will take over our most profitable
public works. Anyway, there is the inescap-
able fact: Smith and Jones and Brown
m 1929 got not only what they earned,
but something like £3O each in addition.
This year they not only can’t get the £3O,
they have to pay interest on it and on al
the other £3O they got previously.
And that has nothing to do with the iall
in the cost of living. This is a mattei
entirely distinct from that. The fall in the
cost of living is due to a slump in prices,
mostly foreign; it is an adjustment of wages
to correspond—an adjustment to make cur-
rent wages equal in purchasing power the
wages of last year and the year before.
But, inasmuch as the wages of last year and
the year before were, as we have seen, not
earned, it is quite insufficient to make the
adjustment mentioned.
It is not Hogan or Moore or Hill or
Mitchell who is chiefly responsible for
the saddest sight in Australia to-day
the sight of hundreds of thousands of will-
ing workers idle. The men chiefly respon-
sible for all this suffering are those who,
like Piddington, of the N. S. Wales Arbi-
tration Court, have preached the doctrine
of the living wage—as though wages could
be governed by needs and not by produc-
tion. And not far behind these in the
matter of responsibility for all the suffer
ing and distress are those misguided men
who no doubt think they are serving their
class best by resisting reductions. If those
reductions necessarily meant a lower stand-
ard of living, the resistance would be more
comprehensible. But they don’t necessarily
mean anything of the sort—for two princi-
pal reasons: (1) Wages in the long run
must be governed by production. Greater
production means the capacity to pay higher
wages. There has been too much loafing on
the job in the past. (2) Too many hungry
mouths have been fed out of the product
hitherto—there has been appalling waste in
distribution, in government and at the
trades halls.
• *
More Rank Humbug.
Lang bought the N.S.W. public-service vote
with the promise that his party would
“remove the legislation by which salaries
were reduced” by the Bavin Government.
Weeks after the Great Victory the leaders
of two of the organisations which had
worked for it announced, with authority,
that the Salary Reduction Act would be
repealed by All Fools’ Day. Repealed it
was not; and now these easily-gulled gentle-
men are staring aghast at Lang’s threat
to limit public-service salaries to £SOO a
year. “It is a revolutionary and prepos-
terous proposal,” said F. C. Wills, secretary
of the Public Service Association, finding
his voice at the week-end.
The Chief Justice would receive the same emolu-
ments as his court reporter, the Commissioner of
Police the same as his sergeant-attendant, the
Auditor-General the same as his junior inspector,
and so on down the scale. There are about 50
public-service awards and agreements providing for
salaries above £SOO. Are these to be regarded
merely as scraps of paper?
Mr. Wills’s agitated remarks, sad to say,
were received with gales of laughter. The
selfish and foolish policy of the leaders of the
public-service organisations disgusted those
whose pockets were about to be rifled, and
they can expect no sympathy now. Never-
theless, the panic-stricken gentleman may
find comfort by considering the political
character of the friend and patron of eight
months ago, now revealed as the worst
enemy the public service ever had.
In the very speech in which he undertook
to restore the one-twelfth deduction from
public servants’ salaries, Lang, as the “Labor
Daily” headline put it, “repudiated repudi-
ation.” He has since erected repudiation
into a system. Whether he undertakes to
put public-service salaries up to 1929 rates
or wipe out those in excess of £SOO a year,
his word, as a politician, is not, in fact,
worth a rush. What he said of Bavin at
Auburn on September 23 applies perfectly
to himself:—
The Premier has established a remarkable code of
ethics in public life —a code that - is as harmful as
it is remarkable. His conduct in public life indi-
cates that the word of honor and solemn pledge of
a public man or a Government is valid just so long
as the circumstances operating at the time the
pledge was given, or the contract was made, do not
alter, and that he shall be the sole judge of whether
any alteration has taken place.
Besides, it is alleged that the salaries of
Ministers of the Crown and members of
Parliament are to be reduced to £SOO a
year as part of the scheme. The capacity
of the present Ministers of the Crown for
self-sacrifice was tested when Bavin brought
in his 15 per cent, reduction of Ministers’
and members’ salaries 15 months ago. “If
I were not worth £875 a year I would
be man enough to say so,” said the unctuous
Baddeley. “Everybody realises, except
these Jeremiahs, that there will soon be a
free flow of money,” said Baddeley’s leader.
“Within a few months Australian securi-
ties will be so attractive in London that the
market-riggers will not be able to prevent
the people from investing in our securities”;
moreover, “America has again become eager
for Australian investments, and when there
are no more 6 per cents, to be taken up the
financial ring here will find itself with a lot
of idle money. This bill before the House
is but a mean and paltry trick; mean
in itself, but devastating to the community
in its results. The Labor party will oppose
it at eveiy turn.” The gentleman who felt
thus hurt at the proposal to reduce
Ministers’ and members’ salaries a mere
15 per cent, now asks us to believe that he
is sincere when he proposes to reduce all
salaries to £SOO.
But, as Mr. Lang says:—
It is not, of course, proposed that we should bring
in legislation directly cutting the salaries of those
people to £SOO a year. We shall deal with them


as we dealt with bondholders. We shall point out
the position in which the country finds itself. We
shall make a strong appeal to their patriotism, and
ask them to return to the State all the money they
receive from us in excess of £SOO a year. Should
they fail to respond to the Government’s appeal to
their patriotism, we shall then have to introduce
legislation.
Mr. Wills need not be alarmed. The
Supreme Court Judges and the rest will
not “return to the State all the money
they receive from us in excess of £SOO a
year,” and the Government will not make
them. Nor will the politicians who fought
the Bavin cut so bitterly, on the ground
that the loan-drunk days were returning,
reduce their own salaries to £SOO a year.
It is not in their nature.
-4 ♦
Shorter Fiscal Catechism.
The fiscal questions, two in number, may
be summed up in very few words: (1) Is
Freetrade of any value in itself? (2) Is
Protection intrinsically worth a cuss?
Freetrade has much to recommend it if
a community is well up in the front rank
for cheap and efficient labor, including
inventive power and management. A slight
lack of cheapness may be compensated for
by extra efficiency; but if the two add
up to 100 and the most formidable rival
amounts to 99, there is no visible need for
Protection.
But if rivals improve, or if new and
superior rivals spring up, or if the Free-
trade community grows slack, then the posi-
tion may change very suddenly. Free-
trade, or what happens to be called by the
name, won’t save it.
Britain began its never-completed Free-
trade experiment when its success in a
world war had left it without competitors.
It decided that it had invented Freetrade,
and that it had thus created its own
supremacy—in fact, that Britain had made
itself, like Josiah Bounderby. It naturally
decided that Freetrade was a god, and it
acquired a great respect for its own judg-
ment as a maker of gods, as well as for the
god it had made. When United Germany
and the United States appeared as dangerous
competitors, the apostles of Freetrade
wouldn’t accept Disraeli’s statement that
their faith was only an expedient like any
other, and they persist to this day in
describing it as a heaven-sent macintosh
good for all weathers, including drought.
Protection is intended to give to a com-
munity with ambition and intelligence, but
with higher cost of living and lower effici-
ency, a fair chance to grow. But only a
fool imagines that wages, taxation and cost
of living can be shoved up indefinitely,
and that production and hours of labor can
be shoved down indefinitely, and that holi-
days and strike days can be increased indefi-
nitely as essential features of “liberty,” and
that Protection must automatically make
all this possible, or else Protection is an
exploded failure. In N. S. Wales the aver-
age factory wages, for men, women, boys
and girls, was set down at £Bl per annum
in 1907, shortly after the close of its so-
called Freetrade period. In 1921 the figure
was put down at £lB2, and in 1929 at £222,
being forced up in the latter years by
“awards,” both Federal and State. The
wages lost by strikes in 1921 are stated
as £493,267, and in 1929 as £3,421,412. If
things began to be really bad after all
these wages and strikes, that didn’t prove
Protection had failed. Protection may be
overloaded the same as a perfectly solvent
horse. \
*
An 111 Wind
One comforting aspect of the depression is
that it has spurred the Australian producer
to seek new markets. The groove we have
followed for years has mostly led to Britain
when our wool and wheat were for disposal;
and Britain’s tendency to hang back for
lower wool prices, coupled with the world-
wide drop in wheat prices, hit this country
hard. But some compensation has come
through a marked increase in trade with
Eastern Asia. Japan, already a good cus-
tomer, bought £4,256,722 worth of wool this
season, compared with £2,797.834 last year.
Even more marked has been the jump in
that country’s wheat purchases, which rose
from 1,010.277 bushels valued at £433,004
to 6,116.224 bushels worth £1,313,715. In
the past nine months China has taken
£1,685,287 worth of wheat, while there is
also a marked increase in the demand for
Australian milled flour and for railway
sleepers. Many other commodities, includ-
ing fresh and canned fruit, are now finding
a good market in both countries and in
Malaya.
Now that exporters have wakened to the
potentialities of a market where Australian
goods should have been entrenched years
ago, heavy punishment ought to fall upon
any person who endangers it by trading that
is tricky or worse. And our national ten-
dency to let things slide, to say that “it’s
not quite right but it’s good enough,”
must be just as emphatically repressed. In
our rough-and-ready pioneering we put up
with most things and made most things do;
and the experience produced some of the
most outstanding features of our national
character—those qualities which made the
Digger so impatient a soldier on parade and
so unbelievably good on Mont St. Quentin.
Salesmanship is largely “parade-ground
stuff”; and until we realise and constantly
remember it, we are not going to. make
progress with prepared products in foreign
markets.
Sidelights on Prohibition.
United States law reckons that Capone,
one of its prominent thugs, made £250,000
in four years by supplying people with
liquor that they wanted to have but which
the law said they mustn’t have. This is
probably about the same percentage of the
gross takings of the great drink-importing,
drink-manufacturing and drink-distributing
combine as the manager’s salary is of the
takings of a big bank or life assurance
society.
But the situation as regards the nation,
or aggregate customer, is different, for drink
has become a civil war, and the people
pay both combatants. If, for instance, the
associated banks were an illegal institu-
tion, living in a constant struggle with the
police, then interest on the harmless, neces-
sary overdraft would be startling. Prohi-
bition is supported by two great classes.
One makes money by breaking the law,
and offers up prayer and praise because
there is a law to break; but for Prohibi-
tion the great Alfonse Capone might be
cutting hair or carrying plates in a restau-
rant. The other is paid openly for enforc-
ing the law (Heaven be praised there is a
law to enforce), and surreptitiously for
winking at the law (Heaven be praised there
is a law to wink at). This complicated
arrangement wouldn’t work so well in the
case of burglary, for no large section of the
community wants to be burgled, but a
large section wants to be filled up with
grog, and that keeps public interest alive.
Then politicians and preachers make a busi-
ness of being Prohibitionist or anti-Pro-
hibitionist, and it is always good to have
a business. The nation loses the legitimate
revenue that it used to derive from grog,
and it pays a vast amount for the sup-
pression of grog, and it pays an immense
amount, directly and indirectly, for suppres-
sing the suppression of grog. In addition,
it pays for its grog. One side of the civil
war must yield a big profit to generals like
Capone, otherwise the country would have
to do without its civil war, and do without
Capone and his permanent standing army.
The cost of all this mix-up goes far to
explain why the U.S. Treasury is in a bad
way, and why more taxes are expected.
Capone is said to have diddled the Gov-
ernment of 45,000 dollaYs in income-tax
alone, because he naturally didn’t put down
his illicit-grog profits in his returns, and
he is only one among tens of thousands, or
hundreds of thousands.
The Artist’s Hard
Time.
M. G. Skipper writes
from Melbourne: —
There is one organisa-
tion which is not doing its
bit in the present depres-
sion—the Felton Bequest.
Though artists are having
a desperately thin time,
and the Felton Bequest has
over £120,000 of accu*
mulated surplus, apart
from its immense capital,
it has done practically
nothing for a year but buy
four English pictures of
negligible value. Senti-
ment would be against it
buying heavily abroad at
the present time, and with
the exchange against us
commonsense would suggest
that it should be operat-
ing vigorously in the Aus-
tralian market. Why has
the Bequest Committee
lost its courage ?
One reason may be that
it feels that the National
Gallery, which gets the
benefit of its purchases,
already has a representative
Australian section. True,
it has many thousands of
pounds’ worth of Streetons,
Blamire Youngs, Bernard
Halls, Mclnneses, Wheelers
and Heysens. But they
are, with few exceptions,
works representative of the
last generation. Recent
shows have indicated that
these artists have reached
the limit of their expres-
sion, and the trustees have
wisely refrained from buy-
ing more of them. Some
of the purchases of works
of the present generation
look like pure benevolence ;
but a significant feature
of this collection is the
total absence of works by
the Meldrum school.
Meldrum is a great
teacher who shore through
academic conventions and
traditions and went right
back to fundamental prin-
ciples. When he set up his
school in Melbourne over
30 students of the National
Gallery school, which is
presided over by Bernard
Hall, director of the Gal-
lery, left and followed him.
Hall is an Englishman who
brought the conventions
of the Royal Academy and
the Slade school to Aus-
tralia nearly 30 years ago.
He is still faithful to
them. He makes no secret
of his contempt for
the Meldrum school. His
services to Australian art
have consisted chiefly in
keeping it in the “colonial”
stage. But it has always
been the history of art
that pupils outgrow their
masters. Engineering
science outgrows engineers, and the self-governing
school of Australian artists have outgrown Hall. But
Hall remains the art adviser to the Felton Bequest.
There is in Melbourne a large figure study by
Meldrum which is probably the most important work
of its kind ever painted in Australia. It has many
of the qualities of Velasquez’s “Las Meninas.” It
ought to be in the National Gallery, but it is not
likely to get there while the academic attitude re-
mains unchallenged. Hall regards all Meldrum paint-
ing as mere “students’ ” work and quite unfinished.
All good artists are students and all good art is
unfinished. Hall’s sincerity is, of course, undoubted.
Similar academicians brought precisely the same
objections against works of Corot, Rodin, Whistler,
Constable, Manet, Old Chrome and Turner which
posterity has agreed to regard as of imperishable
value. “Finish” is the aim of the potboiler. There are
melancholy examples of it in the National collection.
The younger members of the Meldrum school—
Jorgensen, Colahan, Farmer, Colquhoun and Clarice
Beckett, among others —are doing work which in
freshness and vitality strikes a quite unique note in
Australian art, especially landscape. Its value is
bound to be realised sooner or later; in fact, it is
being recognised now, by the public, if not by the
National Gallery.
It is presumed that the Felton trustees do not
want to be included in the long list of art juries
which have become the laughing-stock of later
generations. They are not obliged to rely on Hall
for their selections. They have artists on their com-
mittees, notably John Longstaff. Longstaff is a
conspicuous exception amongst accepted painters, in-
asmuch as he has stood above the petty jealousies
of the art world. He has long recognised the merit
of the Meldrum painters and deplored the short-
sightedness which prevents the patronage of the
Felton Bequest being extended to include a school
of such significance.
♦
Martial Law in Civil Life.
The decision of the Governor-General that
he is not competent to intervene between
the Reps, and Senate in the matter of
the waterside workers regulation directs
further attention to a great scandal. Since
the war Australia has been living to an ever-
increasing extent under a form of martial
law. Indeed, a generation has grown up
which is incapable of imagining a different
state of affairs.
The Diggers were able to realise the full
disabilities of martial law; it was new to
them. They were governed to a great
extent by Army Orders, which poured
forth in torrents, and touched every aspect
of military and even, eventually, civilian
life. A historian will perhaps appear some
day, and explain how near the Empire
came to losing the war through the activi-
ties of base-wallahs who sought to justify
their safe jobs by flooding the fighting units
with often asinine and nearly always super-
fluous regulations, ranging from such mat-
ters as the disposal of timber taken from
destroyed trees to the necessity of checking
slackness in saluting while in the line. One
Bulletin writer treasures a lengthy order
on the subject of mules with mange which
arrived while his battery was in action
during the last German push!
Australia is facing an enemy which
threatens its very existence as a free country.
With businesses crashing in all directions,
the commercial and industrial leaders need
free hands. They are being interfered with
in the Federal sphere, as Senator Colebatch
recently pointed out, “by 4000 pages of
Commonwealth laws in fairly large type,
and by 16,000 pages of regulations usually
in very small type.” So firmly established
has this poisonous convention become in
recent years that many of the later Acts
are mere skeletons. The Air Force Act
(1923) has three small sections —and 513
regulations. In N. S. Wales alone nearly
300 Conciliation Committees are constantly
issuing regulations in the form of awards;
and new boards and trusts (Honey, Cheese
and Egg Boards, Transport and other
Trusts) are created and given powers to
issue orders, which have the force of laws,
whenever Governments want to reward sup-
porters or dodge responsibilities. Many of
their ukases are known to be ultra vires;
lawyers say the proportion is probably as
high as 40 per cent. In theory, aggrieved
citizens have a remedy; they can appeal to
the High Court —provided they have plenty
of money. A soldier who thought he had
been unjustly treated by his C.O. had a
similar remedy; he could ask for a court
martial.
Quite apart from the injustices done by
these bodies, there is the burden they repre-
sent to the taxpayers. The Federal Public
Service Board alone costs over £40,000 per
annum, and is only one of scores.
• ♦
Bet's Re-employ 100,000 Men!
The Bulletin insists once more that the
300,000 citizens who are unemployed have
the same needs as the million who are em-
ployed and the same capacity for satisfy-
ing them. They can earn their own living
if they are given opportunities just as the
million are earning their living. We must
find those opportunities. They can be
found. But we shall not do it without
organisation. What the case calls for is
a national drive to put a large number of
men, say 100,000, back in employment
simultaneously. The simultaneousness
would make the effect of the extra wage-
circulation on trade more apparent, and
thus carry the scheme to a surer success.
BUT THEY MUST BE CONVERTED.
SHEIK EL LANG (preparing to descend on the Bondholders’ Caravan): “Convert them? By the
beard of the Prophet, let me at them with my trusty blade, I’ll soon convert them!”
SHEIK EL SCULLIN: “Softly, softly, brother. I also am not unarmed; but let us first pray with
them a little.”


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
Iho Stanoara c i Quality throughout tho Empiro.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-us?
Detonators
Cartridges
on
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., G.M.U.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ASSURED POSITIONS—BETTER MONEY.
e
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career now.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LOWER PRICES
for Watch Repairs
1 - - The New Prices are:
Men’s Pocket Watch 12/6
Lady’s Wrist Watch 15/-
Very Small Ladies’ Watches, 17/6
2 - - The above charges include thorough
overhaul, adjustments, oiling and regulating.
3 - - A watch is not allowed to leave
Hardy Bros.’ workshop until their foreman
has personally examined the repairs or adjust-
ments and is satisfied that the watch is
running well.
4 - - Country customers may safely send
their watches for repairs and adjustments. The
special packing used when returning the watch
makes breakage impossible during transit.
é
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Queensland Premier Moore is expected to
take in hand the restoration of the Leg.
Council shortly. This was on his party’s
election programme, but nothing has been
done for two' years. Another matter which
will have to be tackled is redistribution of
seats. Theodore was responsible for the
present boundaries, which enabled his party
to win an election when it was 20,000 votes
behind in the constituencies ; and the jest
lias grown mouldy.
Sir William Campion w r as once or twice
mildly criticised for trenching on politics
in his speeches as Governor of Westrala.
Prior to quitting Perth last week he got in
a remark which left no doubt of his views
on one subject. He said he didn’t think
that the soundest part of the community
desired separation from the Commonwealth.
Before the secessionists had recovered suffi-
ciently to protest that they were Westralia’s
noblest sons, the gentleman was on his way
to London.
"We have too many blatherskites putting
things over the people,” shouted a delegate
at the Premiers’ conference. Moore, of
Queensland? Jimmy Mitchell? McPhee?
No, Lang! Lang, who pledged himself to
restore the loan-drunk days, and build rail-
ways galore, and construct roads from “the
farm to the siding,” and see that the farm-
ers got 7s. 6d. a bushel for tlieir wheat
(“What Labor did before Labor can do
again”), and increase child-endowment pay-
ments and widows’ pensions, and give the
“There are too many of you blatherskites
about. Take that.”
civil servants back their one-twelfth, and
banish deficits and make the railways and
tramways pay! Lang, who “repudiated
repudiation”! Somehow it recalls those
prophets of Baal, who “in times of
national excitement had the odd habit Of
leaping on their idols.”
The defeat of Bill Beckett, Labor Minister
of Health, for the Uppish House province
of N. Melbourne recalls that 18 years ago
W. H. Edgar (now M.L.C. for East Yarra)
met a similar fate when he held the same
portfolio in the first Watt Cabinet. Beckett
was in the first Hogan team, as well as
the second. Now that Maurice Blackburn
has won the Labor nomination for the Mari-
byrnong Federal seat Beckett may try to
succeed him as M.L.A. for Clifton Hill.
Bavin’s weakness as a political leader is
the last one would expect in a leader of the
Bar. lie can’t leave well alone, and shut
up—a weakness that has lost more court
cases than any other. It was all to the good
that the N.S.W. Judges should have tabled
a report hostile to Lang’s Injustice Bill, but
Bavin, being Bavin, had to spoil it all by
getting up and asking if, “in view of the
report,” the Government meant to go on
with the bill. Even Lysaght had a contro-
versial woodener for that one—“lt is for
this Parliament to say what shall be the law
of the country, and not the Judges.”
The All for Australia League is against
pre-selection; and the A.F.A.L. is right.
Partly because it refuses to surrender on
this vital matter it is being attacked by news-
papers and people that larded it with praise
so long as they believed that praise would
turn its head. Some of the Nationalists wbo
are now railing at it had the infernal cheek
to object to a Country-party man, Malcolm
Brown, coming out against their candidate,
A. M. McMullin, for the Upper Hunter
Assembly seat. To do him justice, McMul-
lin is head and shoulders above a lot of the
old hacks who hang round the Nat.-Fed.
headquarters, and who have been trotted out
year after year until the public is sick of
the sight of them ; all the same, at the end
of the first count he was only 1200 ahead of
Brown, who may win on preferences. What
a swindle it would have been if 4000 Upper
Hunter electors had been deprived of their
right to vote for BroWn, and 2000 more of
their privilege of making him their second
choice, by a handful of wirepullers in Sydney !
Germany is pleading once more that it
can’t meet the reparations bill, though the
original amount has been cut down two or
“Replying to the Senate’s petition, Governor General Isaacs declined
to interfere to prevent, the gazettal of regulations granting preference to
the Waterside Workers’ Federation, saying that it would amount to ‘an
open personal preference of one House against the other.’”
G.-G.: “Well, you did ask me to play puddin’.”
three times and the terms made easier. Its
representations have moved the Rammac Gov-
ernment almost to tears, but no foreign Gov-
ernment sympathises with Britain, which is
paying £30,000,000 a year to the U.S.A., and
will have to go on doing it for upwards of
half a century, meanwhile collecting what
scraps it can from the countries which owe
it nearly as much. The curious thing is that
although Uncle Sam has accumulated more
gold than he knows what to do with, and
France has socked away a good deal of the
remainder, the rake-in countries are little
better off than the pay-out ones in the
present disorganisation of the world’s trade.
Labor in Queensland has never had much
use for Lang, and lias. none whatever now.
As a sequel to' his visit to Brisbane to ex-
plain his “plan,” it has been announced by
the State executive that any comrade sup-
porting it will “definitely place himself out-
side the Labor party.”
In the same area between Melbourne and
Albury where search parties are still look-
ing for the Southern Cloud, Joseph Ekins
vanished last week. A Civil Aviation
Department aircraft inspector, he was flying
in a Moth to Albury. The weather was thick
and the country to be crossed is the worst
on any air route in Australia. Another
tragic argument for directional wireless.
Perhaps it was with an idea of mitigat-
ing the effect of the threatened reduction of
salaries to £5OO p.a. that Lysaght, his
Majesty’s Attorney-General, proposed to
relieve the legal profesh of the necessity of
wearing wigs and such-like vain gauds. The
movement towards simplicity thus presaged
should be helpful to the public-service heads
“Thank the Lord we have an Uncle!”
when the wolf ravens at the door. There
is a kindly uncle who will store regalia till
the clouds roll by and advance a little upon
them, on the usual terms.
Older Queenslanders are wondering
whether a plan tried long ago could not be
revived for the benefit of those who live in
the outest out. Actually in some cases this
last year it didn’t pay to cart wool over
the long distances to rail, and it has been
put aside —till Heaven knows when. Under
the old plan above-mentioned a concession
was made in rail freight for every 10 miles
of road haulage; and there is a lot to be
said for it. At any rate, it would be
cheaper to make the concession than put a
line down to carry goods at a great loss, as
has been done in scores of other cases.
Scullin and Theodore got a 2-to-l majo-
rity for the Premiers’-conference plan when
it was put to the vote at the party meeting,
but they have lost E. J. Holloway’s services
as' Assistant-Minister. Months ago Hollo-
way decided to let some other “comrade”
taclde Bruce in Flinders, and to retreat to
Melbourne Ports, from which Jim Mathews
(incapacitated for years) is retiring at last.
There were murmurs
at this, and then (as
was soon made clear)
the waterfront bitterly
objected to the Pre-
miers’ proposals. The
Caucus vote was
taken on Thursday;
the selection ballot
was held on Satur-
day. Meanwhile,
“after long and seri-
ous consideration” —
fully 15 minutes —
Holloway resigned
from the Ministry,
and being forthwith
hailed as a martyr to
principle he won the
selection ballot. Cer-
tainly a steady job as
M.H.R. for Melbourne
Ports —Mathews has
held it for 25 years
—is heaps more com-
fortable to look forward to than a few more
months in a minor Ministerial post, fol-
lowed by a beating in Flinders and political
extinction.
Queensland Industrial Court has cut the
wages of meatworkers 11s. per week, or 2s.
a day. In 1918, when the industry was in
a very prosperous condition, an increase of
6s. a week was awarded; that.goes and ss.
as well. The meat cos. had asked for a
reduction of ss. l|d. per day. They pleaded
that the cattle- and meat-export trade is
in a bad way, several of the northern
works having decided to cut their season
owing to the impossibility of getting cattle
from the areas quarantined on account of the.
buffalo-fly.
The Moore Government is being urged by
foolish people who call themselves its
friends to extend the legislative term
from three years to five years, start-
ing with the present Parliament, which
will otherwise expire in May next. It
is argued that the State Constitution pro-
vides for five-yearly Parliaments, of which
there have been ten in Queensland, and that
conditions warrant reversion ; also that the
change could be made by legislation, as it
was in 1890. It could undoubtedly, but it
would be a crime to make it without con-
sulting the people. The people put the
Moore Government in for three years, and
so far they have had no reason to repent
it; but their respect for the Government will
turn to loathing if it stays in another two
years without their Sanction.
The Hogans got more jolts in the Vic.
Assembly last week. Macfarlan moved that
the Factories and Shops Bill, which con-
tains a clause abolishing Friday-night shop-
ping, should be read a second time in three
months. Hogan and Webber declared that
they could not take calmly any decision to
remove the conduct of business from the
Ministry’s hands. Argyle said just as firmly
that the House must protest against
the introduction of mere propaganda bills
when _ finance was the main thing. The
situation was saved by Bernard Gray, who
tabled an amendment substituting an ad-
journment for six weeks; his vote decided
it. Later in the week the House carried an
amendment designed to give storekeepers a
better deal under the Moratorium Bill than
the Government proposed. Argyle would
probably be granted a dissolution if he
became Premier, so the Hogans will ignore
the result of snap divisions that go against
them. An election in July or August would
mean a Labor debacle.
What crimes are being committed in the
name of taxation, especially in N. S. Wales!
The Privy Council recently decided that
amounts received in excess of the market
value of B.A.W.R.A. priority certificates and
shares, as at the date of issue, were not tax-
able in Queensland. They have been taxed
in Lang’s State, and last week a bill “valid-
ating” the imposts collected during 11 years
(estimated to amount to £250,000), and
authorising the commissioner to collect for
11 years from woolgrowers who refused to
pay until the matter had been decided by the
highest Court, was bullocked through the
Assembly in a sitting. It is simply legalis-
ing theft. Another form of robbery is the
levying of N.S.W. unemployment tax on
income derived from other States, chiefly
Victoria and Queensland, which is already
subject to Federal, Vic. (or Queensland)
State and Vic. unemployment tax —and the
N.S.W. rate is much higher than the ) ic.
and Queensland rates. This extortion would
have been impossible in the pre-Federation
days, and it should be impossible under tli<■
Commonwealth. Unfortunately the Con-
stitution does not expressly forbid it.
Slang told a Melbourne interviewer, in
connection with his proposal to reduce all
salaries paid by his Government to £SOU
a year, that it would give him the greatest
pleasure “to go out after those tall poppies. ’
One Tarquin was the first to indulge in
this pastime. He also was a ruler with a
swelled head, and he was himself lopped in
the end.
The threat “I'll make you prove your
words,” which was hurled freely from
both sides of the N.S.W. Assembly in
connection with the charges made by
Dunningham, M.L.A., against the Govern-
ment’s dole-inspectors, is surely the most
meaningless of the stock phrases with which
our legislators garnish their orations. What
the belligerents mean, of course, is that the
words can’t be proved, being untrue. “Un-
parliamentary language” runs the above
close as an example of muddled thinking. It
means vile language—language you wouldn’t
use in a decent bar. But that is Parliamen-
tary language.
Europe begins to smell trouble in the old
locality. Germany is restricted under the
peace treaty to a voluntary army 100,000
strong, the men to join up for 12 years and
the officers for 25 years. This is to guard
against a repetition of the old Prussian
camouflage by which compulsory soldiers
did one year’s intense service and then
were drafted into a well-armed reserve
while a new lot took their places in the
ranks. Though the treaty arrangement is
liberally dodged, the Prussian hasn’t any-
thing like his old force available for his
intended great recovery. But his next-door
neighbor, Soviet Russia, has human flesh
and blood in increasing quantity for sale.
It has a compulsory peace army of about
600,000 men, which is a record. It has a
compulsory preparatory army which begins
to learn the Soviet equivalent of the goose
step at 19, so that it goes into the real
army partly trained. Then there is a re-
serve which has been through the machine
and come out at the other end. It is a
blundering apparatus, apparently quite unfit
under present management for recovering
lost provinces (it was tried in a shindy with
Poland when it was young and has done
little since), but hired out to the Prussian
it might become a useful weapon.
“It has always struck me that so much more
could be done it the municipal bodies were bigger
stronger and richer.” — N.S.W. Minister McKell .
defending his Greater Sydney Hill.
THE CAT : “I have a feeling that they simply
MUST be amalgamated and absorbed.”
è


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBIE'S INKS”
“Kerys”; Shown the latest model, Dad
announced that he would take one of those,
c.o.d. “Bring it out to me farm and teach
the girls to drive it,” he said. A salesman
set off, and found Dad’s dwelling such a
ramshackle-looking place that he began to
doubt if he hadn’t come on a fool’s errand.
But the family rushed to welcome him.
and amid at babel of talk he dimly heard
Mfim being urged to pay up. The lady
opened her spacious blouse and brought
forth a roll of notes, counting out the
twenties and tens until there was over £3OO
on the running-board. “Mum’s our bank,”
Dad explained. The traveller stressed the
folly of keeping such large sums in the
DIRT OR DOUBT-WHICH?
“Did you heah the storwy about Mrs. Loosedame?”
“Yes, I read something about it in the papers. It wasn’t very definite.”
“Na-o. But I notice they all give hah the benefit of the dahrt!”
house. After earnest exhortations he per-
suaded Mum to make the journey to the
township and open an account in the N.S.W.
Government Savings Bank. That was six
months ago. If he should ever pass that way
again lie won’t call.
* . . * , ,
T.E. : Dr. Plnlp, a Victorian school-
inspector of the ’seventies and ’eighties, is
still remembered by hoary ex-publicans on
his old beats. No matter how ramshackle
the pub, every morning he demanded his
tub of hot water, and it was seldom he didn’t
get it. But he had his trials. One night he
pulled up at a hostelry where there was no
vacant bed, unless you like to turn m with
the boss, ventured the landlady, who was
utilising a two-pronged table fork for a
toothpick. “I studied the boss, clad in
singlet and pants, busily stirring up a
manuah heap,” explained the spick-and-span
educationist afterwards, “and was as horri-
fied as if she had invited me to occupy the —
er —apartment with herself. So I drove my
tiahed horse to the township 20 miles away.”
*** I *
“Clerk”: The roar of a racing engine and
the howling of a motor-siren aroused resi-
dents of Gardenville (Vic.) at three o’clock
the other morning. Disturbed householders
groping their way to bed-
room windows observed a
young man in a car riding
round and round, with his
throttle wide open and his
hand pressed firmly against
the horn-button, the perform-
ance being continued until a
’phone call brought the
police. The motorist’s ex-
planation to the local Bench
some hours later was that
he had quarrelled with a
young woman whom he had
brought home and she had
left him without saying good
night. As a man of spirit,
he had taken the most ob-
vious way of summoning the
lady to repair the omission.
Fiver and costs.
* =!= * ' v
“Hadji Baba”: A sturdy
old patriot was Hussein, late
King of the Hedjaz, just
dead at 77. The representa-
tions of Colonel Lawrence,
backed by thousands of good
British sovereigns—Hussein
did not deal in fiduciary cur-
rency—convinced him that it
was his duty to back the
Allies against the Unspeak-
able, though he himself had
been bred and reared in Con-
stantinople. All members of
the Australian and British
forces in Palestine will
recall the worth of Hussein’s
desert warriors, headed by
the “uncrowned king of
Arabia,” as some Yankee
christened Lawrence. In
fact, these men did as much
to win the war on the Eastern
front as the Portuguese did
on the Western. The ex-
monarcli died in retirement
in Cyprus, having departed
from the Hedjaz with a good
start of a usurping rival. Be
took all his gold with him,
and rumor says he employed his time count-
ing it in and out of petrol-tins to make sure
his staff hadn’t been dipping into it.
* * * *
“Sol Malaprop”: The two gentlemen, Dr.
Kipfer and Professor Piccard, who went up
53,000 feet in a balloon, and on their return
landed in good health and spirits on an Aus-
trian glacier ? were certainly in the Columbus
line of business. Previous aeronauts are
suspected, of rising to 37,000 feet, but as
they were insensible during the topmost part
of the expedition they brought back little
information. The habit of becoming either
insensible or dead at a great height, sud-
denly attained, spoiled all attempts until
the professor and the doctor tackled the
problem in a truly scientific spirit. They
rose to a point where the attenuated atmo-
sphere gave a clearer view of the mountains
in the moon than anyone is known to have
got before. In fact they were the first men
in a new world, with new color and new
lighting effects. With improved appliances,
which are bound to come, it should be pos-
sible to get still closer to the roof of the
atmosphere (perhaps 100,000 or 150,000 feet
above the earth), and then the explorers may
possibly reach an inhabited region where
birds made of gas build their nests in trees of
the same material, and where all sort of light
events may happen. Man lives and potters
about at the bottom of a very deep sea of
atmosphere, and he lias a tendency to burst
(Ins lungs have anyhow) at a great height,
because the pressure of the air outside of
him no longer counterbalances the pressure
of the blood inside him. In like manner the
orthodox sea-serpent is supposed to live at
the bottom of a deep sea of water and if
by some chance or accident he starts for the
far upper regions he naturally bursts through
diminished outside pressure Hence he is
little more than a myth on the shores of the
globe. The sea-serpent hasn’t solved the
problem of climbing out of his pit and
taking a comprehensive look at the world
above him, but man apparently has done so
at least he has climbed over a barrier hither-
to regarded as impassable. Next he wants
to devise a plan whereby he can dive 1 down
53,000 feet, and have a good look round, and
come back with reasonable certainty and
filled with information. When he has learned
how to go down and shake the sea-serpent by
the tail in its own domicile then there will
remain two chief problems—to explore up
PRIDE—AND GRATITUDE.
“You are very proud of your husband’s deeds, I suppose[?]”
“Yes, the darling — he’s put some of them in my name, too.”
above the atmosphere where there is nothing
to support a balloon, and to find out what
is below the sea bottom, and have a look at
the centre of the earth. Exploration is
really beginning.
* * * *
“Jungor” : There are many ways of being
insulting in a legislature without being un-
parliamentary, but few have recourse to
them in the Ma State’s Leg. Assembly, where
more terms of outright opprobrium arc
habitually exchanged than in all the other
State Houses put together. The most in-
genious offensiveness I ever remember to
have heard was employed
by a legal member of the
Westralian Parliament
who had been assailed by
a publican. He com-
plained that the honor-
able member for So-and-
So had got the material
for his attack from a con-
fidential conversation, and
he used the word “honor-
able” again and again
with stinging emphasis.
When the Chair at last
intervened, the offender
asked in simulated sur-
prise if the rules of the
House didn’t compel him
to refer to a feliovv-legis-
lator as “honorable”; he
certainly wouldn’t have
done it otherwise, he ex-
plained. The Chair was
nonplussed, being loath
to rule that there was
anything unparliamentary
in an inflection, even that
of obvious sarcasm, and
the speaker finished his
defence with an accented “honorable” in
every sentence for good measure, while the
publican looked to be in danger of an
apoplectic fit at any moment. The Langites
and Bavinites are very crude in comparison.
:t: * # *
“Oxmead”: That old-time song of the
London music-halls “The ’Ouses in Between”
(B. 10/6/’3l) had its variations and parodies.
The one I remember best owed its genesis
to an Australian cricket team —that of 1886,
I fancy—of which great things were expected
but which failed to play up to its form.
First-class matches in England began on
Holidays and Thursdays then, instead of
Saturdays and Wednesdays, and somehow
the visitors never seemed to be at their best
on the first day of the week. Hence the skit,
received delightedly at the Eav. or some such
haunt of entertainment, which recounted that
the players from overseas would have fulfilled
anticipations “if it wasn’t for the Sundays
in between.” There was little discipline for
touring players in those days, except on the
field; no 39 articles (or whatever the number
is) to be signed before Australia was left
behind.
» * * &
“Ibn el Issar”: The Nonconformist con-
science in Britain is much exercised over
allegations that wealthy Arabs in Mandated
Palestine are in the habit of buying young
girls of poor families, or rather leas-
ing them for 25 years, after which they are
granted their freedom. The traffic is de-
scribed as inhuman, but there are some
redeeming points about it. The law of Islam
specially protects the slave, who, given good
conduct, has to be maintained for the tdrm
of his or her natural life, this obliga-
tion passing to a new buyer. Further,
a female slave bearing a child to her master
is automatically freed. Often her offspring
becomes the head of the family, under the
universal Asiatic custom of adoption. Not
one girl in a thousand of the type described
had had to experience the life led by the
West African slaves shipped two centuries
ago to the West Indian plantations, mostly
by the godly merchants of Liverpool and
Bristol.
* * i)t
“Mells”: The coaching company which
jibbed at carrying that immense Westralian
solicitor at ordinary rates (B. 3/6/’3l) was
obviously in the wrong. Common carriers,
including railways, steam packets and what
not, have got to take the heavy with the
light in the matter of their human patrons.
A man doesn’t become two from the point
of view of the booking office because he
takes up two men’s space or weighs as
much as three might. If it were so, any-
one in the living-skeleton class would have
a claim to be carried at half-rates. With
theatres, where numbered seats are sold, I
fancy it is different; but the carrier, even
if he is but a cabman, refuses a Gargan-
tuan fare at his peril, although there may
be more peril in accepting it. Arthur Orton,
the Tichborne claimant, who was a moun-
tain of flesh before 10 years’ penal servi-
tude reduced his proportions, once got into
a London four-wheeler and went clean
through the floor. The cabby didn’t notice
until the yells of his huge passenger, forced
to run to keep up with the encircling
vehicle, arrested him. But it is not on
record that he sued Orton for damages, or
that he would have had any case if he had
done so.
* # * *
“Mako”: The Japanese may not have a
play ridiculing the British (B. 10/6/’3l), but
they are not without methods of retaliation.
During the war period, when dolls with
characteristically English features, golden
hair and blue eyes were temporarily off the
market, the demand was supplied with dolls
from Japan. Not Japanese dolls, but
creatures apparently designed to be copies of
the British article. One enraged M.L.
importer wrote to his Japanese suppliers ask-
ing them what they meant by sending him
such hideous caricatures, and received a
chilly reply to the effect that anyhow that
was how the Britishers looked to Japan.
* * * *
“D.”: Some of the most short-sighted and
uneconomic people in N. S. Wales, not even
excepting politicians, are the country folk
who sell fowls, ducks and the like to Sydney
motorists. Travellers have a natural dis-
position to sample the “wine of the coun-
try” whatever form it takes. They like to
feel they have made a good bargain while
in the wilds, and it gratifies their vanity to
bore stay-at-home friends on the subject
afterwards. The roadside dealers have pretty
well stopped all that. After having half a
dozen of the oldest and toughest birds I ever
put tooth to palmed off on me at city prices
by stall-holders on the main western and
southern roads I have solemnly sworn off
their rubbish; and it is the same with most
of. my friends. There is a small fortune
awaiting the first, city poulterer who has
the enterprise to disguise himself as a cocky
farmer, and offer eatable stuff at a roadside
stand on Saturday and Sunday afternoons.
Ilis main trouble will be to win back some
of the confidence that has been destroyed by
real farmers.
LEAVE IT TO LANG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr Lang said that his State would reduce the
salary of everyone in,, its employment, from the
Governor downwards, to a maximum of £5OO a
year. Should high-salaried officials fail to respond
to an appeal to their patriotism, compulsion would
be applied.”
A tenner a week, why, it’s capital biz,
With the root of all evil as scarce as it is,
And the State up a tree, as you all must
agree.
Though in Parliament narks may harangue
At length to convince you it cannot be done.
The answer is simply, “It must be, my son.”
And here is the man who will show you it
can,
You leave it to Lang.
If his Ex. should object, as he’ll possibly do.
To a nought -being clipped off the end of his
screw,
xlnd to answering the door while her Ex.
sweeps the floor
And decides where the washing shall hang;
If' he reckons such jinks infra dig or n.g.,
Well, there’s plenty of other good fish in
sea
Whom the State could bespeak for a tenner
a week.
You leave it to Lang.
If heads of departments start cutting up
rough,
And Judges should fling up their jobs in a
huff,
Exploding in rage at the size of the wage
And shutting their books with a bang,
There are patriots left, you may safely aver,
Who would readily suavel the horsehair and
fur.
Iron bark Andy, indeed, might perhaps give
a lead.
You leave it to Lang.
There’s Ministers, too. I predict they’ll
protest
And more moral suasion require than the
rest,
While docking the pay of the poor M.L.A.
Will doubtless occasion a pang.
But if Cabinet bucks or rebelliously rears
It’ll risk going out once again on its ears,
For a Boss it has got who once cut such a
knot
By simply and suddenly sacking the lot.
You leave it to Lang.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


“Sandon”: The liquidators of Bawra are
said to be puzzled about the whereabouts
of unpresented cheques to the amount of
£7OOO or so. I know where some of them
are, though they wouldn’t tot up to much
in the aggregate. I saw one of them for
2d. framed in the chamber of a bank, and
MORE CLASSY THAN CLASSIC.
NEWLY-MARRIED WOMAN : “Oh, yes, our wedding had to be very quiet, as we were in
mourning. So it was quite incognito. No ‘Voice’ or confetti, but just a little
extempore ceremony.”
two others for 3d. and 4d. stuck up on the
wall of a bar parlor. Probably there were
thousands of these small cheques unpre-
sented, as the wool receipts were all paid
in dividend form to big growers and small
alike. A humorous aspect of the case is that
the smallest cheques were the same out-
size in paper as the biggest.
* * * *
“Umzimvulu” : The volatile Winston
Churchill, it is announced, goes to the U.S.A.,
where he will deliver 45 lectures at £2OO
a time. Ability to make money that way
runs in the family. Just 40 years ago Win-
stem’s dad, the equally mercurial Lord Ran-
dolph, went to Mashonaland on a business-
cam-hunting trip, the business part being to
write 20 lettters on Rhodes’s addition to
the Empire for the “Daily Graphic” at £lOO
a letter, a handsome sum in those days.
“Randy” was wont to make a stir and a
splash wherever he went, and the most inter-
esting part of the trip for the British public
was a music-hall song wherein the adven-
tures of the ex-Chancellor of the Exchequer
were dealt with in a manner that caused the
Lord Chamberlain of the period to ban the
doggerel as scurrilous. A few nights later
Arthur Roberts, I think it was, came along
with the amended version:—
I’m only Jack the dandy-oli
Of the great Mashonalandy-oh,
For you mustn’t pain
The Chamberlain
By speaking .of Randv-Pandy-oh.
For the folks who have commandy-oh
In this free and enlightened landy-oli
Would license again
Such a play as “Jane,”
But not a song about Randy-oh.
That this should have passed muster showed
some sense of humor in the Chamberlain.
“Randy” was expected to boost the new
country in the interests of Cecil Rhodes and
other magnates, but he didn’t. His final
word was that it was “neither an Arcadia
nor an El Dorado,” an accurate judgment
enough.
=s * * *
“Merris”: The enterprising female who
married seven departing Diggers during the
war and collected all their allotment moneys
(B. 27/5/’3l) had an imitator in Adelaide,
who drew sustenance under six different
names at widely separated suburban post
offices. Right up to the Armistice every-
thing went well, one hubby being considerate
enough to get wiped out, thereby putting
her on the pension list. The trouble began
when three of her consorts returned on the
same ship. One day, after a casual talk
about the devoted little woman to whose
arms they were returning, they happened
to exchange photographs. Their bride was
not upon the wharf to greet them, so
they hired a taxi and set out to find her.
When at length they located the lady, they
told her in quaint Digger language just how
they viewed her conduct, and then gently
propelled her through the window without
first opening it. N.B. —I had this story from
the house-agent to whom she confided her
troubles.
* * * :S
“Oxon”: I was surprised by “Exon’s”
news (B. 10/6/’3l) that many historic
Oxford wine clubs are being speak-easied,
and that water is flowing like champagne in
others. I revisited Oxford several times
three years ago, and found the wine clubs
of my youth intact and with their drinking
moral unimpaired. It would be interesting
to have some details as to which famous
wine clubs have (1) been closed down, (2)
gone teetotal, (3) started to attract Rhodes
Scholars. In my day scholars couldn’t
afford to join such resorts (the A.D.C.-
like costume worn by members of the
B.N.C. alone cost 12 guineas) ; and
Rhodes Scholars have always been harder-
up than most. It all sounds curiously like
a reverse edition of the story told to the
girl at Commem. about the hard-drinking
Bullingdonite who joined a gruel club,
founded by indigent Scottish toshers for pur-
poses of self-improvement, because he liked
its Napoleon brandy. But perhaps, in this
case, Oxford (Eng.) is being confused with
Oxford (Verm.), the U.S.A. chiropractic
nifty, where the co-eds were red-hot mammas
to a dame, and all the teachers, not except-
ing Old Man Schlatzenbunger, the 100 per
cent. American principal, were regular fel-
lows, and carried hooch on the hip even at
lessons, till Rev. Billy Sunday blew in one
day, after a ball game, and converted the
bunch with his popular spiel, “Booze is
Bum.”
“Mugwump”: Kangaroo Island (S. Aus.)
must be one of the few places in the world
where there are no unemployed. The local Bill
Outerwork goes trapping wallabies or “gum-
ming” (collecting jaeca gum), and so keeps
off the dole. Employment is also found
in cutting “leaf” for the eucalyptus-oil stills.
ALWAYS RIGHT!
BROTHER BILL: “What, another tiff with your husband, Helen?
I’m sorry — what’s the trouble this time?”
SISTER HELEN: “Oh, the same old thing, Billy. He’s right, and
I don’t agree with him.”
while there is a noticeable increase in the
number of fishermen. Rumors have been
current lately about indications of gold on
the island, and prospecting parties, some
armed with divining-rods, have gone bush.
* s': if *
“Haikwan”: As one who lived in Shanghai
for many years I take leave to differ from
“Naklioda” (B. 13/5/’3l) about the excel-
lence of the food, the vegetable part anyhow.
Beans and such things may look well enough,
but flavor is missing, and they are mostly
of a woody or watery variety. It is unsafe
to eat any raw market vegetables like
tomatoes or lettuce. If “Nakhoda” ever
ate good lettuce or celery in Shanghai, I’ll
bet it was imported. Bubbling Well ceme-
tery is a mighty overcrowded spot these days,
largely owing to the effect on Europeans of
uncooked Chinese greenstuff.
s': * *
“Dalesman”: The recent earth tremor
in England, comparatively harmless as
it was, has surprised many who
were under the impression that
Britain is outside the earthquake
zone. Records show that it has
experienced nearly 1200 earth dis-
turbances of one sort and another
during the past thousand years.
However, they have involved only
two fatalities, one in 1580 and the
other in 1884. It is not necessary
to have a volcano on the premises
to be subject to earthquakes,
though Britain is not so far away
from volcanic Iceland. Quakes
are due to strata slides, and though
volcanic activity may contribute
to these, they often occur without
any visible evidence of it. The
“slip” which wrecked San Fran-
cisco in 1906 was one of this kind.
In the north-west of Yorkshire,
which is honeycombed underground
with vast limestone caves, local
disturbances of the kind are not
uncommon.
* * *
“Dai R.”: Routine orders were
seldom equal to a Digger thirst.
When our crowd arrived at Tel-
el-Kebir it was to receive the
tragic information that the only
canteen with any beer left was
that of the sth Batt. There was
such a rush thither that, an hour
after opening, a notice was posted
that only men of that unit would
be served. There followed the
liveliest recruiting I ever saw; all
that was necessary was to find a
sth Batt. cobber willing to change
tunics for a few, minutes. “The
colors are pretty thirsty to-night,”
said the canteen-sergeant sus-
piciously, as I got my whack.
“X.N.0.”: “Grid” (B. 3/6/’3l) says that
among naval officers “spotting goes on all the
time” because the liquor is good and dirt-
cheap. Except during luncheon and dinner,
when a minority of the usual ward-room mess
have a beer or a whisky and soda, there are
only two recognised times, 11.30 a.m. and
6.30 p.m., for officers to foregather for
cocktails, sherry or “pink gin.” Perhaps
it is as a visitor from the shore that “Grid”
got his impression that n.o.’s are hard
drinkers. I did a good deal of globe-trotting
in one ship in which I served, and as we
had no entertainment allowance we used to
mix a particularly potent cocktail for visi-
tors. They seldom wanted more than one,
which saved our pockets, but we didn’t
drink it ourselves; ours were of quite a dif-
ferent composition. Anyhow the £5-per-
month wine-bill limit wouldn’t stand “spot-
ting all the time,” even at ship prices.
‘•Dr. Nil’,’: No. need to go as far as Cape
Colony for an instance that the Melb ,
suggestion of a memorial to the Gret
horses has been forestalled. There is. .
stone drinking-trough for horses m \
square, Adelaide, with a brass plate Deal-
ing an inscription in memory of the horses
that were killed in the Great War. It lias
been there for some years. ...
“Farleigh” : Sydney Town Hall is put to
some strange uses; the other night ten edits
and four young men,
converts to Four-
square Evangelism
(whatever that may
be), were immersed
in a tank by a pastor
named Van Eyk,
while a gallery of uii-
tegenerate spectators
yelled derisive en-
couragement relieved
by hearty applause—
the latter evoked, as
one newspaper report
discreetly put it, by
•‘a young lady robed
in a long nightgown
who came out of the
water with her figure
strikingly revealed.”
It would be a poor
liot-gospeller who
couldn’t do some
business in a city of
a million inhabitants,
but it is good betting
that the Van Eyks
and their kind get
better returns in the
colliery districts and
the mining towns
than in any other
part of Australia.
Wales and Cornwall
and, in a lesser de-
gree, the east coast
of Scotland have
given the revivalist
his best harvests in
the Old Country, from
the days of Wesley
to those of Evan
Davies and Gypsy
Smith, the Celt being
more emotional and
amenable to fiery
eloquence than the
Saxon. He takes
that characteristic
with him, along with
his aptitude for min-
ing. Even in the cos-
mopolitan Kalgoorlie
of 30 years ago the
Cornish and Welsh element was strong
enough to make an occasional descent by a
fervid evangelist worth while.
* * * =*
“2nd Divvy” : According to Sydney “Sun” :
We all could, and should, be “icebergs,” and
bathe all the year round, according to some Sydney
doctors. One doctor said that during the influenza
epidemic none of his Spartan friends was affected.
Another agreed that round-the-year bathers usually
escaped sickness by their hardihood.
To all of which I say “Bunkum!” The
“icebergs” are not conspicuously healthy
because they are “icebergs”; they’re “ice-
bergs” because they are healthy. Like Miss
Gleitze, and the Maori lady who ran her so
close here, they can take liberties with thcii
bodies that -would kill others. This habit of
confusing cause and effect isn’t confined to
the medical profession, though the doctors,
for some reason, often do it. Sydneyites are
always saying, “Australian men are god-like
creatures: look at the life-saving teams on
the beaches.” They seem to forget that
youths with figures to show off naturally
gravitate to surf beaches, and that the life-
savers are the pick of them. When North-
cliffe saw some photographs of naked Diggers
on Gallipoli he is said to have exclaimed.
“What glorious men Australians are!”
Bunkum again! In the first place the
nominal rolls of the Ist Divvy show that
nearly 30 per cent, were British-born; in
the second place the A.I.F. was more or less
picked for physique, at any rate in the early
stages of the war; finally only 50 per cent, of
it, consisting roughly of the fittest men, were
put in the front line. To draw physical
deductions from “icebergs,” Diggers, surfers,
etc., is equivalent to judging the English,
physically, by the Life Guards, or intellec-
tually by the members of the Athemeum
Club.
jj: ❖ ❖ *
“Centurion”: “X.N.O.’s” assertion that
the terrors of the press-gang were greatly
exaggerated (B. 10/6/’3l) leaves me un-
convinced. Marryat, who certainly knew a
good deal of the navy of his time, constantly
refers to pressing in his novels; so does
Smollett, writing with authority on the
happenings of an earlier day. Tom Hood, of
course, could claim no such expert know-
ledge, but there are many who will cling to
belief in the story of Young Ben, that nice
young carpenter, who was walking out with
Sally Brown. The unsuspecting couple
....met a Press Gang crew,
When Sally she did faint away
But Ben he was brought to.
* * *
“Keg”: In Sydney next month the old
familiar tram-conductor’s uniform is to go,
and a' symphony in navy blue, royal blue
stripes and chrome leather is to take its
place. The Trust is actually making a
saving with the more expensive uniform, as
the issue will be cut down to one a year,
instead of two. If the trams themselves
were to be brightened up at the same time,
we might be able to forget the depression
for a few days.
* * * *
“Bull’s Run”: Still another British
general has been taken to task for his
memoirs of the Great War—no less a
warrior than “Johnny” French, whose “1914,”
published 12 years ago, has been made the
subject of a bitter attack by Sir John
Fortescue. This tilter at a man long dead
is author of a “History of the British
Arajy,” but seems to have done most of his
soldiering as Librarian at Windsor from
1905 to 1926. Among other comments
he refers to the field-marshal’s book as
‘‘the work of a monomaniac.” Haig was
characteristically far-sighted when he willed
that his war memoirs should remain m
cold storage until 50 years after his death.
SHOW US IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The selected site for the Henry Lawson statue
on a knoll near the Sydney Botanic Gardens is de-
feuded by two ‘S.M.H.’ controversialists on the
ground that it is ‘a place eminently suited for poetic
contemplation.’ ”
' ,
We scrawl our verses nowadays,
we sons ot nngnt Apoiio,
All uninspired by woodland ways
Or verdant vale and hollow.
And now the reason I begin
Lo gi’asp why critics rate us
A Vv! :lll,Ubly - 111
The genmne afflatus
Yet all the while and close at hand—
TiW ''biddenin<>- the news is*
uow’ giaciucnm,, tne news is.—
There waits, by bounteous Nature planned,
Plus Art’s accommodating hand,
The finest spot in all the land
For frivolling with Muses.
Come, brother, and away we’ll walk
From streets and those that work there,
And give the pubs a miss in baulk— '
No themes for lyrics lurk there.
It holds for us, with beckoning arms,
That nook within the Gardens,
What Wordsworth found in Rydal’s charms
And Shakspeare sensed in Arden’s.
There’s something in the atmosphere
That breathes of lyric stories ;
You feel as to the coign you steer,
Far from the realms of ink and beer,
Keats might have writ Endymion Miere
Or Swinburne hymned Dolores.
, r . . . , ~ „
My vision leaps the yeais along—
t b, 4.L eS ’ J m se , lous ’ d * at y. 01 1•
I see them grouped our sons of song,
-w *V°vrn- tbe JfT on vn atU< K +•
Mute Miltons liie them there betimes
To bask in dreamy fancies;
A 1 wi 1110 .k UKUC elusive rhymes
While others weave lomances.
Enchanted ground—the sort of spot,
.Secluded’ sylvan, mossy,
Brignall banks and braes to Scott:
And Tennyson might well have got
I oints for The Lady of Shalott,
Methmks, m such a possy.
r loathe the uifvV vnmblino- din
1 The tramn where kerbs and au’avs are-
How can •i hn ldinv BHdffos sob? ’
rtlSn
Smooth lays in scenes like these are.
mn h n/ n fL nf l g ph ° ne ’
The tinkle ot the peter,
Like spanners in machinery thrown,
They wreck mellifluous metre.
Such jars and jolts we bards abhor.
Come show me that location
Which if it isn’t Eden or
A Helicon with mere and tor, *
Is eminently suited for
Poetic contemplation
1 ’
N,s -W-
T. THE R.


TO MEET THE TIMES
:
M
P
riental
Melbourne* Premier Hats!
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
2
4
A MAN’S WATCH
Neat—Reliable —Sturdy
It is a far cry from the now obsolete key-wound
watches to the excellent watches that are
designed to-day. For 85 years Fairfax and
Roberts have offered the very latest and most
reliable watches to their customers. The model
illustrated is made by one of the most famous
Swiss makers, and represents wonderful value.
Reliable, fully jewelled lever
Wristlet Watch, in heavy silver
case shaped to the wrist
631-
Warranted for 15 years and kept in order free of charge,
breakages excepted > for one year.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
A NEW IDEA
FOR GOLFERS
CLEVER—SMART —USEFUL.
A golf ensemble, featuring a
Coat-sweater and a Sleeveless
Pull-over, so light that the coat-
sweater and the ordinary coat
may also be worn with comfort.
At the links one discards the
coat-sweater and plays in the
pull-over—rafter the game don-
ning the sweater. The pull-over
has a crew neck and two
pockets. Both garments have
contrast colors on sleeves,
pockets and waist. In Grey,
Fawn and Brown. Beautifully
made.
Coat-sweater 28/6; Pull-over 19/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Gone on his final prospecting trip at
03, Phil Saunders, who found gold in
the Kimberley district over 60 years
ago. H'e was born in Heidelburg, Victoria,
but drifted from Queensland across the N.T.
as a young man, and “followed gold” until
almost the end of his long life. Of late years
he had lived at Menzies; he died in the Kal-
goorlie Government Hospital.
B. V. Stacy, N.S.W.. Crown Prosecutor,
was Von Stacy to the Diggers of the Ist
Battalion, which he commanded for a time.
His precision in the matter of dress, even
in the line, and his contempt for shells
which might be falling in his neighborhood
earned him the nickname. Stacy was a
stickler for visiting his posts every night,
whatever the conditions. At Meteren a chal-
lenging sentry, after receiving the formal
reply, introduced a variation in the ritual
with “Advance, friend, and give us a
match.” Stacy emptied his pockets of vestas.
Archdeacon George Oakes, of Bathurst,
is oiic of the Ma State’s oldest Anglican
divines; he went to Bathurst 55 years ago
as a pupil teacher under the late John Dett-
man, father of the present head of Sydney
Grammar, and his first parish was at
Coonamble in 1879. lie is a grandson of
Francis Oakes, the missionary from Tahiti,
who died at Parramatta in 1844. After
Archdeacon Oakes returned from the Boer
War, whither lie went at the same time as
the late Neville Howse, he settled down to
work at Holy Trinity, Kelso, the first
church built west of the Blue Mountains.
He owns a prayer-book brought to Aus-
tralia on the Duff, the first missionary ship
in 1797. It was published over 200 years
ago, but the new leather binding was the
work of prisoners at the Bathurst Gaol.
Vic. Uppish House now has five lawyers
—the two Cohens, Eager, McArthur and
Williamson, the new man from the Western
Province. Like Walter Manifold, a former pre-
sident, McArthur is more interested in wool-
growing than in briefs. IT. I. Cohen and
Eager practise as barristers, and H. E.
Cohen and Williamson as solicitors. The
Assembly has two barristers, Macfarlan and
Menzies, and two solicitors, Attorney-Gen-
eral Slater and Blackburn.
Dr. John Dale, Melbourne’s city health
officer, is an Englishman who saw the war
years through in France as a surgeon, and
came to Westralia afterwards as health
officer to' Perth. His position obliges
him to issue expressions of opinion for the
DR. JOHN DALE.
benefit of the newspapers at the shortest
notice, and he does it with rare skill.
Recently a reporter ’phoned him concerning
a cabled story that in time medical science
would be able to make a missing limb grow.
Asked what “time” meant Dale replied that
probably geological time was intended—any-
thing up to 200,000 years, for instance. At
present he is leading the offensive against the
worst outbreak of infantile paralysis Mel-
bourne has experienced.
The disappearance of William Henry Car-
penter, who sat in three different Australian
Parliaments in his time, has been connected
up with the discovery, as long ago as last
September, of a body floating in the
stream that runs through Sydney’s National
Park. Early in September Carpenter
left Perth to go to Melbourne, and
he told a friend then he was pass-
ing on to Sydney. The tab of a Perth
tailor on a pair of trousers was the ulti-
mate means of identification. In pre-Federa-
tion days Carpenter occupied a seat in the
S- Aus. Assembly, representing Encounter
Bay, where he had King O’Malley for a col-
league. In 1903 he won the Fremantle divi-
sion in the House of Reps, for Labor, but
held it for only one term. Later he sat for
Fremantle in the Westralian Assembly, but
he left the party in the Conscription split
and failed of re-election. He was a native
of Swindon (Eng.).
J. C. Peterson, Queensland’s Home Secre-
tary, was early broken into political life, for
he was only 17 when he was campaign secre-
tary to redoubtable Wully Kidston, then
Labor member for North Rockhampton,
where the present Home Sec. was born in
1880. Wully was a good guide for an aspir-
ing politician—a master of political finesse
J. C. PETERSON .
and not afraid to change his mind if he were
proved in the wrong. Il'is influence was
seen in later years when, after his pupil
had become Labor member for the farming
district of Normanby, he rebelled against the
things that were taking place and resigned
to join the Country party in 1921, after six
years on the Labor benches. Though bitterly
opposed by his old party at subsequent
elections, he has got hack with a bit more
to the good each time.
A good Australian in the Birthday-honors
list is Roy Robinson, now Commissioner of
Forestry in England. His career has run
thus: Macclesfield (S.A.) school, St. Peter’s,
Adelaide University, Rhodes Scholar, a
Burdett Coutts scholarship (and a lacrosse
blue), forestry in India, and back to Eng-
land with his present position. His parents
have latterly lived in Perth.
According to the A.L.P., Olney, one
of Vic.’s new Leg. Councillors, owes
his sudden elevation less to a swing
away from Beckett and the Hogan Gov-
ernment than to his passion for bowls.
Night bowling parties are a feature at the
Olney home in Ivanhoe, which won first"
prize in a garden competition a year or so
ago, and every bowling friend meant five
votes for Olney and a motor-car to take
electors to the polls.
Arthur Feez, K.G., who recently retired
from the N.S.W. Bar after 50 years as a
barrister, is one of a well-known Queens-
land tribe; he practised for many years
in the northern State before coming to
N.S.W. A notable athlete in his early
days, he represented Queensland at Rugby
Union football in the State’s opening
match against N.S.W. in 1882, turning
out again two years later. He figured in
many famous Queensland trials. Perhaps
his greatest triumph was his successful
defence of a jackeroo named Vernon, a son
of the famous old-time English cricketer,
who was charged with murdering a man
with a cricket bat. Counsel so tied up a
witness who said he saw the murder that
the jury acquitted the accused. Vernon
returned to England and later shot himself,
leaving a wi’itten confession.
11. A. Kauper, Australian Sound Films’
new engineer, went to the Cold Land with
Harry Hawker, and accompanied that fam-
ous birdman in the first round-England sea-
plane flight, organised by the “Daily
Mail.” When the war broke out lie joined
the R.A.'F., in which he perfected the Kauper-
Sopwith device for firing machine-gun bullets
through the propellers of aeroplanes. Three
years ago he turned his attention to the
talkies, and some of his inventions are in-
corporated in the latest sound-recording
apparatus produced by the Marconi Co.
Kiauper is distinguished from the other
members of his family in being the possessor
of remarkably bushy eyebrows. The pheno-
menon is not a case of avatism, but is due to
the fact that he has had them frequently
burned off —once when investigating the
mechanism of a bathheater as a boy; again
when testing a carburetter with a soldering-
iron in the first motor-car to travel from
Melbourne to Sydney; and, lastly, when an
aeroplane containing him and Hawker took
fire.
A stout old mariner is Alec Jumner, who
is retiring from the Queensland public ser-
vice at 70. Born at Lossiemouth in Scot-
land, like Ramsay MacDonald, he came to
Australia after years of seafaring to serve
in the Queensland Government steamers
Lucinda and Otter. As skipper of the latter
he came in contact with many strata of
society; the vessel was not only used to
convey political lights and social stars on
picnic and fishing trips down the river to
Moreton Bay, but also acted as conveyance
for guests of the State whose addresses
varied from the penal settlement on St.
Helena Island to the old people’s home at
Dunwich .and the lazarette on Peel Island.
A keen naval volunteer, he rose to the rank
of commander in the R.A.N. before retir-
ing from the service.
Two old inter-State identities of Adelaide
have passed on. Samuel Benson (93) was an
Irishman who alternated between the West-
ralian and Vic. police forces for 10 years
when he was a young man, and helped in the
pursuit of the bushranger Morgan. From
1886 he was in Adelaide —he was Government
House orderly to the Duke of Edinburgh, and
finally custodian of the Treasury buildings.
George Yeomans (89) was an English-
man who came to Melbourne (Hobson’s Bay
railway) in 1870, and afterwards rose from
bottom to top of S.A. railway service.
From an admirer :
George Merivale, who died in Sydney last week,
was a standing tribute to the much-criticised English
public-school system. He did everything he set
his hand to well, and never talked about anything
he had done; his character was stainless, and he
never criticised anybody; and his manner was a
picturesque blend of gentleness and dignity. He
was Haileybury’s champion athlete, got his rowing
blue at Oxford, and proved himself a bold and
accomplished horseman with the Sydney Drag. Merivale
came to Australia, originally, through his connection
with the Gibbs family, and, after being called to the
Sydney Bar, joined Gibbs, Bright and Co., and
became a partner. He married into the Laidley
family (his wife died last year) and lost his elder
son, John, on Gallipoli. He held a number of im-
portant directorships, worked hard for all charities
connected with seamen, whom he loved, and avoided
advertisement so resolutely that the general public
hardly knew his name.
H. F. Broadbent, who hopped off from
Sydney the other day to look for Ekins, the
latest missing airman, even engaging an
engineer to go to Benalla to keep the ’bus
in order, didn’t know Ekins —“but,” he
explained, “if I was lost I’d like to feel
that somebody was looking for me.” You
can almost hear Harry Rickards, young
Broadbent’s grandfather, making that little
speech. As a matter of fact, the young
man’s name isn’t Broadbent; but Jack
Broadbent, a Digger—son of the man who
for many years managed John See’s busi-
ness in Sussex-street —married Harry
Rickards’s daughter, who had been driven
to get a divorce from her first husband in
England soon after the child was born. The
mother came back to Australia with the
new husband, and the boy grew up with
him on his handy little holding near Wagga.
Mrs. Broadbent died two or three years ago.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, new gen.
manager of the A.M.P.
New stationmaster at Flinders-street,
Melbourne’s “busiest station in the world,”
is George Johnson, who has directed the
operations of Harold Clapp’s flying gangs
of ticket-checkers since 1910 —his railway
service goes back to 1886. He is the author
of what is known as “the ticket-checker’s
catechism,” a book which has steered count-
less lad porters into possession of the
checker’s certificate.
In most discussions at the Premiers’ Con-
ference Long Ned Hogan was less con-
spicuous than his lieutenant, J. P, Jones.
Though he has struggled manfully, Long Ned
still makes hard work of finance: Jones is
quite at home with it. He and Theodore
soon got to hot words. Like most modern
tailors, Jones won’t have a good word said
for inflation. (They have all heard of the
Polish tailor who, fearing bad times, sold
JOHN PERCY JONES.
his stock of 100 suits for the equivalent of
£450 and banked the money against the lean
days. When they arrived he had to buy a
new suit for himself —and found that it
would take the whole £450, in Polish money,
of course, to buy a coat and vest!) Actually
J. P. Jones is still more of a farmer than
a tailor; the tailoring was only a second
thought after he had done well on the land.
He is one of the few rich men in the party,
with a seat in the Leg. Council.
Manly has lost a familiar figure in A. E.
(“Ted”) Thorn, who died suddenly last
week. Born there in 1869, he had been con-
nected very closely with the growth of the
Village. His eldest boy, Ted, is the well-
known Waratah, who also led the N.S.W.
Rugby Union team on its M.L. tour. *A
younger son, Joe, is coach of the Manly
Rugby team.
Dead in Adelaide, suddenly, a very popular
sportsman, Bob Howie. He was born in
Melbourne 70 years ago, his father being a
director of the Robert Reid Co., and settled
in Adelaide at 25. Outside of business, rac-
ing was his great interest. He was a success-
ful owner, and a hard-working Port Adelaide
committeeman for many years.
Harold Clapp, whose hack was killed by
one of his own trains last week, is the only
prominent Melbournite, barring S. M. Bruce,
who takes riding exercise. Bruce does it to
keep his weight down; Clapp to keep his
energy up. The Vic. railway chief is a
human dynamo, whose U.S.A. training gave
him an insight into every detail of the
service. His lightning inspections resemble
those of a c.o. on active service, and account
for the uncanny tidiness of Vic.’s remotest
railway station. The stationmasters never
know when to expect him, and he has a> house-
wifeish knack of spotting the smallest'mani-
festation of disorderliness. If all is well he
deals'out cigars to everyone in sight and pro-
ceeds, grinning widely, on his hurricane way ;
otherwise he raises hell, also on hurricane
lines. Railwaymen attribute his capacity to
go on doing this sort of thing, year in, year
out, to his* passion for oranges and exercise.
Sydney has just lost one of the last of
its tall silk hats. Thirty years ago J. Cole
Edwards, crossing over from Maoriland, took
charge of the ‘‘Record,” a monthly publi-
cation devoted to finance, and he kept it
going until he retired a year or two back.
He was 77 at the end of a career which
matched his hat for spotlessness and pro-
priety.
Another link with the Kelly days snapped
when 88-year-old Jesse Dowsett died at
Dandenong (Vic.). He was the guard
on the special train which carried the police
to Glenrowan for the rounding-up of the
gang in 1880, and he joined the besiegers
when Ned Kelly’s armored figure loomed
out of the morning mist surrounding the
Glenrowan pub. A share of the Govern-
ment reward came his way; he retired from
his railway job 26 years ago.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd.
, Dividends
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. (6 p.c.) Ordinaries. 'serves, serves.
•£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 79,177 7.015 10 p.c. = 48,542 23,620 155,928
I OSS.
1922.. 90,074 12,231 Nil 53,623
Deficit.
Assets apparently written down, 11119,400 65,777
Profit. Reserves.
Capital reduced £87,000 . . • • • • 21,223
1923.. 26,850 12,231 Nil 14,625 35,848
1924.. 50,092 12,373 4 p.c. = 20,201 17,518 53,366
1925.. 59,233 12,514 5 „ „ 25,252 21,467 74,833
1926- 66,670 12,598 6 „ „ 30,302 23,770 98,603
Reserve taken in, £15,000.. .. •• 113,603
1927.. 70,328 12,898 7 p.c. = 35,442 21,988 135,591
Transferred to Provident Fund, £5000.. 130,591
1928.. 73,515 13,152 71 p.c.= 39,031 21,332 151,923
1929.. 77,090 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 22,305 174,228
1930.. 73,276 13,152 8 „ „ 41,633 18,491 192,719
Assets written down, £15,000 .. .. 177,719
1931.. 54,272 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,224 9,896 187,615
Assets written down, £20,000 .. •• 167,615
Since they struggled out of the backwash of
the post-war boom the policy of those in
control has been to build up the strength,
visible and otherwise. So the div. has been
kept down and £171,393, or about one-third
of the aggregate net profits, has been openly
added to reserves. Yet even now these are
not a very stout prop for the £739,613 of
capital—£2l9,2o6 of it is pref. money carry-
ing a cumulative 6 p.c.—but provision has
been made for ordinary contingencies inter-
nally.
Last year trading was restricted, prices
toppled, and cuts had to be made in some
lines to ensure clearances. The price of
copra, which was £27 per ton in March, 1928,
dropped to £2O 15s. two years later, and
to £l4 15s. at the close of last accounts.
So; after taking stocks into the sheet at
£46,262 less than at the previous balance,
there was a sharp contraction of £27,281 in
gross profits (£135,660). Exes. (£86,519,
including something for bad and doubtful
debts) were £6047 lighter, and £5131 dropped
from somewhere into the insurance fund,
raising it to £41,825. Thus the shrinkage
in the net figure was £19,004. After handing
the prefs. their £13.152 enough remained to
show 7.9 p.c. on ordinary capital as against
11.5, 12.2, 11.3, 10.7, 9.2 and 7.5 p.c. back
to 1924. So a couple of points were knocked
off the div., reducing it to 6 p.c.
The continued fall in the price of copra,
due largely to competition from whale oil,
has affected the capital value of plantations,
so £15,000 was struck off their book value
a year ago, and a further cut of £20,000 is
to be made. When the accounts last
closed plantations figured at £89,051, or
£1222 more than at the previous balance;
two properties over which mortgages were
held were taken over during the year. Also
the insurance fund is to be debited with “a
substantial amount” on account of damage
to the premises and stocks of a subsidiary
at Lautoka, due to a hurricane, the effects
of which will be further felt in the output of
copra during the current term. Though
turnover in this and other respects threatens
to be quieter, further cuts in overhead are
promised, the co. can be relied upon to
get its full share of the business available,
and finances are in good trim.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—-
iqoo *|qQA 1931
Overdrafts .. ..£145,763 £61,946 £33,603
Mortgages . . .. 21,675
Deposits 35,985 30,886 30,528
Sundry creditors . . 66,088 23,456 36,705
Plantations . . .. 73,269 87,829 89,051
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 233,823 279,246 278,431
Stocks, etc. . . . . 225,397 274,752 228,490
Investments and cash.. 248,212 187,296 207,403
Capital value of
branches, etc. . . 212,461 162,664 142,234
Book debts, etc. .. 144,518 90,268 108,773
The drop of £20,430 in the capital value
of branches reflects the shrinkage in transac-
tions between the Suva, London and San
Francisco offices. This, the reduction in
stocks, the year’s surplus earnings and
£13,249 added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors, enabled the board to wipe
£28,343 off the overdraft, carry an extra
£18,505 of book debts and strengthen invest-
ments, etc., by £20,107 net. The etcetera
comprises £30,000 of Maoriland Government
51 p.c. debentures and £2248 of cash; shares
and debentures in subsidiaries in Fiji
account for most of the balance. Altogether
the more or less liquid surplus (£476,078,
including stocks but not shares) was £38,424
stronger than it was a year earlier.
The market prices the pound ords. at 18s.
as against 235. 6d. a year ago. Allowing for
the final div. the return at the lower figure
is 6.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Subject to
any goodwill there may be in the subsidiaries,
the backing is 265. sd. in net tangibles.
The prefs. can be had around par. They
are covered by £4 2s. 9d. in net tangibles,
and last year’s net profit was over four
times their annual requirements.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
This is the energetic pioneer of the bond-
selling method of financing forestry ventures.
It. makes its profits—for the present at any
rate—not out of forestry, but out of the sale
of bonds and the carrying on of work under-
taken on behalf of bondholders.
The co. bought its first 50,000 acres in
the Waikato district, North Island, Maori-
land, about eight years ago. This land it
offered on easy terms in bonds at £25 per acre.
For that price it undertook (1) to transfer the
freehold to trustees for the bondholders, (2)
to plant an acre with softwood trees for each
bond sold, (3) to care for the forests until
realised at the discretion of bondholders, or
for 20 years, whichever period is the shorter,
and (4) to co-operate financially and other-
wise with the trustees in any marketing
scheme mutually agreed upon. The net
return to bondholders was figured at £250 an
acre should the crop he sold for wood-pulp
in 12 years, or £5OO if marketed as timber
in about 20 years. Bonds varying in amount
according to their embellishments have been
issued since, and sales have spread from
the Dominion to Australia, north to the East
Indies and southern Asia, and to London and
S. Africa.
Speculation in these bonds became so popu-
lar that, during the seven years to March
31, 1030, the co.’s sales aggregated £3.454,022
(face value), and it planted 117,050 acres
with trees, as the following table shows:
Total Total
March, Bonds Sold. Amount. Area Planted.
1927.. 86,353 £2,158,900 54,655 acres.
1928.. 101,602 2,584,309 82,579 „
1929.. 117,531 3,147,129 107,088 „
1930.. 125,630 3,454,922 117,950 ~
1931.. 120,394 ~
Last year’s bond figures were not disclosed in
the report. Sales were lighter, of course, thougu
they were much bettter than the increase of
2444 acres in the area under trees suggests.
Planting, carried out during the winter
months only, is now in progress on some
35,000 acres.
The contraction in the face value of bonds
sold and sundry income combined was only
£9337 as against a slip of £242,954 in the
previous term
. Land and
Develop- Mainten- Dividend
March, Sales, etc. ment. ance. Profit. 8 p.c.
1929.. £563,203 £388,789 £156,364 £18,050 £13,668
1930.. 320,249 165,666 135,709 18,874 14,772
1931.. 310,912 173,454 121,637 15,821 15,537
Expenditure on land and development, which
includes bond-selling costs, was £7788 heavier.
The sum set aside for maintenance was
£14,072 lighter, so the slip in the profit
claimed was £3053; but that is leaving out
of the reckoning £4OOO set aside for taxation.
Still, the 8 p.c. div. was repeated, though,
according to the figures, it was £3716 in
excess of net earnings (£11,821). The true
profit, however, depends largely unon whether
allowances for planting and maintenance
(£1,106,015 at March 31) prove to be more
or less than necessary. When the books
closed there was £7336 of free reserves to set
against goodwill, unaltered at £15,000.
During the year the co. bought a new
block of some 30,000 acres, close to the other
lots, and acquired the broking business of
Smith, Wylie and Co. —they were the co. s
selling and collecting agents —in Australia
and Maoriland on terms not disclosed. Here
is as much as balance-sheet figures tell: —
1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £178,474 £191,266 £196,813
Sundry creditors .. 160,750 91,361 93,145
Land .. .. 71,902 33,343 131,547
Plant, etc 16,221 21,686 26,921
Investments . . • - 1,682 58,547 46,085
Bondholders’ balances.. 934,348 751,987 605,846
Other book debts . . 21,005 13,056 44,005
Maintenance reserves .. 311,781 455,952 524,154
Cash 13,526 11,695 25,268
To add £98,204 to the freehold item, £68,202
to the maintenance reserve fund and £44,522
to cash and sundry debtors, bondholders’
balances were reduced by £146,141 (no hint
is given as to forfeitures), and investments
by £12,462. Only £1784 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors who are
well covered. ,
The reserve fund, which belongs to the
co., is deposited with the trustees for the
bondholders as a guarantee that the co. will
do its job. The trustees report that it has
satisfactorily carried out its obligations to
daite, and its ability to continue to do so is
certified by the auditors to the trustees.
At the moment it is impossible to say
whether anything approaching estimated
profits for boldholders is likely to be
realised. The trustees are inquiring into
“the widest possible range of utilities deriv-
able from the forests, cost of production of
each, and probable markets.” All that can
be said definitely is that there has been a
smashing fall in the value of all commo-
dities, timber included. He would be a bold
person who would venture to predict what
conditions will be six or seven years hence,
when the first of the marketing is expected
to begin.
Checker Cab Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Net Pref. Ke-
Profit. p.e. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Aug.. ’26.. 2500 10 10 p.c. = 1521 979 15,758
Feb., ’27.. 4610 8 8 „ „ 4100 510 15,238
Blue Cab deficit, £26,706 .. .. 41,944
Loss.
Aug., ’27.. 8000 Nil Nil 49,944
Aug., ’28.. 9983 Nil Nil 59,927
Feb., ’29.. 3985 Nil Nil . 63,912
Feb., ’3O. . 8643 Nil Nil 72,555
Feb., ’31.. 8511 Nil Nil 81,066
It has been a sick business for the last
34 years. Indeed, the only thing that stands
in the way of liquidation is inability to sell
the assets at a reasonable figure.
The co. was formed six years ago as an
offshoot of Hughes Motor Service, Ltd., and
presently bought up a competitor, the Blue
Cab Co., for £70,000 in scrip, of which
£26,706 turned out to be unrepresented by
assets. Last year efforts were made to
check the drift, and a service station, second-
hand car department and “minnie” golf
course were opened. But after striking oft’
£7824 for depreciation, etc., a loss of £B5ll
was registered, increasing the deficit on
shareholders’ account to £81,066 at Feb. 28.
To finance the changes £8293 was added
to the outside debt, as this comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows :
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £149,062 £149,213 £149,962 £149,962
Liabilities . . 39,711 9,514 14,356 22,649
Freeholds . . 71,236 66,568 74,099 75,893
Fleet and plant 59,528 19,826 12,929 5,708
Stocks.. .. 4,059 3,151 3,645 4,889
Book debts, etc. 4,871 5,270 1,090 5,056
Blue Cab shaves 30,842 26,706 26,706 26,706
There are 25,000 prefs. (£3B unpaid) and
125,000 ords. On paper the net tangible
cover figures out at £2 15s. Id. for the
prefs. and 7s. for the ords. The fleet, origin-
ally 149 cabs, totalled 77 at. the close of last
accounts; these stood in the books at
approximately £77 each. Chief saleable asset
is the freehold, though thus far the board
has been unable to find a buyer.
The market prices the 10 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which have priority as to capital, at 45.;
thus valuing the whole undertaking at £5OOO
net. That disregards the fleet and plant
altogether, and counts on the freehold fetch-
ing less than oue-third of its book value.
Swan Brewery (Perth)
Dividends and
, —Dividend Tax — N W rit-
Pref. ten ® e ‘
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ £ £
Mar.,'24.. 43,252 1500 16 p.c - 20,527 10,161'312,430
Sept.,’24.. 27,115 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 5,223 308,167
Mar.,’25.. 44,736 1500 36 „ ~24,655 -- 326..4S
Sept.,’2s.. 23,360 1500 16 .. 24.655 f|s 323,528
Mar ,’26.. 46,391 1500 16 ~ ~ 24, 6:>j 10,182 333,0.82
Sept.,’26.. 28,112 1500 16 .. ~ 24.65 a 10,076 325,463
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720 .. 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 .. 40a,0-9
Mar.,’27.. 48,871 1500 10 p.c. =26,754 425,646
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,90 a U,OOO 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. 506,1-1
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c. =42,531 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 . 542,962
Mar.,’29.. 63,891 1500 20 „ ~ 42,545 , 562,808
Sept.,’29.. 48,761 1500 20 ~ „ 42,545 567,524
Mar., ’30.. 67.910 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 591,389
Sept.,’3o.. 50,277 1500 16 ~ „ 34,036 600,130
Mar., ’31.. 40,580 1500 16 ~.,34,036 611,174
A long period of prosperous trading enabled
the cautious management to visibly accumu- •
late £611,174 to support and assist £4<5,403
of paid capital at March 31. The purchase
of two old competitors —Castlemaine m 26
and Emu in ’27 —added £124,779 to the pile,
and helped to swell earnings, which have
also benefited greatly by rentals from
hotel freeholds, in which the reserves have
been mainly invested. Moreover, constant
additions have been made to the brewery
and other fixed assets, and paid for out of
revenue; then these items were written down
from the same source, keeping their book
value at a low figure in relation to their
earning capacity in the past. Thus the board
has been able to keep the div. steady—it has
been at 16 p.c. since 1911, sweetened with a
4 p.c. bonus in the fattest periods—notwith-
standing the general financial stringency,
lighter trading and heavier taxation of the
past year.
For the 12 months to the close of last
accounts the slip in the gross profit from
trading (£162,822) was £47,742; rents, etc.
(£78.769) brought in an extra £12,689; exes.
(£154,789, including £32,413 openly struck
off for depreciation as against £46,779 in
the previous term) were £15,261 lighter,
whilst unexplained additions to reserves were
£4055 as against £10,077 the year before.
The contraction in the final figure was thus
£25,814. Still, after paying £3OOO of divs.
on a small pref. issue, there was enough to
show 21.5 p.c. on ord. capital compared with
26 7, 29.2, 27.3, 23 and 21 p.c. back to 1926.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined = £1,086,627) the net result was
8.3 p.c., whereas only 6.5 p.c. is needed to
cover the pref. requirements and 16 p.c. to
the ords.
Turnover, however, has lost much of its
former briskness, rental and other values,
including hotel properties, are on the down
grade, and the cry of the taxgatherer has
become more vociferous. Nevertheless, mar-
gins are comfortable, finances are snug, and
the bonus on gold may help to liven the
output of beer, too.
The position as the published accounts
disclose it is as follows :
Mar.,’26. Mar.,’3o. Mar.,’3l.
Capital . . . . . . £358,190 £475,454 £475,453
Accounts in credit, etc. 60,371 136,014 139,586
Other liabilities .. 81,452 102,309 84,543
Freehold and plant .. 654,179 966,322 979,666
Mortgages . . .. 58,588 47,705 : 54,357
Stocks 54,759 67,251 60,866
Shares in other cos. .. 6,897 111,722 111,722
Book debts .. .. 81,973 119,206 95,741
Cash, etc. ■ • . . 3,353 37,005 43,940
During the last two years £181,242 net has
been spent on the purchase of hotel free-
holds, raising the total cost to £757,728, and
the book value to £653,055. The brewery,
plant, etc., which cost £674,789, figures at
£313,668 net. Excluding accounts in credit,
which are probably largely provisions for
contingencies, there was little change in the
more or less liquid surplus (£170,361, includ-
ing stocks and mortgages but not shares).
Over the last 12 months the market short-
ened its bids for the ,255. paid ords. from
635. to 51s. The return at the lower price
is 7.8 p.c. on a 16 p.c, div. basis; the dis-
closed backing is 48s. 9d. in net tangibles.
The well protected 6 p.c. cum. prefs.—there
are 50,000 of them, enjoying priority as
to capital —seldom appear on the market.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Towards
April Profit. Dividend & Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 13,867 15 p.c. = 14,175 9,162
1921.. 10,046 10 „ „ 9,562 484 8,678
1922.. 16,381 10 „ „ 9,562 6819 - 1,859
1923.. 19,842 15 „ „ 14,343 5499 3,640
Reserves.
1924.. 19,388 15 „ „ 13,781 5607 9,247
, Dividend
1925.. 19,455 15 p.c. = 13,500 5955 10,202
1926.. 17,708 124 „ ~ 11,250 6458 21,660
1927.. 14,768 12* „ „ 11,250 3518 25,178
1928.. 16,624 124 „ „ 11,250 5374 30,552
1929.. 15,582 12i „ „ 13,656 1926 32,478
1930.. 12,027 8 „ „ 11,233 794 33,272
1931.. 10,677 6 „ „ 9,599 1078 34,350
Except for the 1921-22 slump, when 10 p.c.
was paid, this wool, produce and general-
agency concern was a steady 15 per center
for the 11 years to the close of accounts in
1925. Then drought, and the loss of the
Brisbane agency for the Orient Line, affected
earnings, and the div. dropped to 12£ p.c.
Meanwhile the hoard decided to go into the
pastoral-finance business, and of
fresh share capital was gathered. Next
came the break in the markets; wool slumped
to pre-war prices, there was a sharp con-
traction in livestock and produce values, and
the div. fell to 8 p.c. in 1930.
For the 10 months to April 30 the
Australian average was £ll Is. 7d. per
bale for wool as against £l3 ss. 9d. and
£2l 11s. lOd. for the two preceding seasons
respectively, and sheep, cattle and produce
prices all slipped over 20 p.c. Still, owing
to the heavy carry-over, 28,494 bales
(8417 more than in the previous year) were
put under the hammer, so commission earn-
ings (£32,495) sprang £1579, and interest,
etc. (£14,242). improved £948. But exes.
(£36,060, including something for bad
debts) took all the increase and £1350
besides; thus the final figure was 6.6 p.c. on
capital compared with 8.5, 14.2, 18.4, 16.4
and 19.6 p.c. back to 1926, and a couple of
points were chipped off the div., reducing it
to 6 p.c. The £lO7B of the year’s net earn-
ings that remained lifted reserves to £34.3. > i
in excess of goodwill (£50,000).
The financial structure and recent develop-
ment of the business are seen in the next
table: —
1925. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital . . £90,000 £90,000 £159,909 £159,959
Liabilities . . ,17,235 81,619 87,063 103,576
Properties . . 27,382 97,582 93,174 92,469
Plant, etc. . . 5,361 9,251 7,681 7,381
Shares in cos... 35,736 41,011 41,236 41,236
Advances, etc.. . 41,609 65,432 146,111 164,17 j
Cash, etc. . . 21,349 1,915 1,900 3,083
Last year £18,065 was added to the book
value of advances. To do it £00.14 was
tacked on to the overdraft (£76,273) and
£7410 on to the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£27,303). The more or less liquid
surplus (£63,683, including stocks) improved
£2735 during the year.
Seasonal prospects over most ot Queens-
land are bright enough, and there has been
an encouraging improvement in wool prices.
Nevertheless, earnings on the same scale as
of recent years need not be looked lor;
and the growth in taxation is making itself
felt. In 1921 the co. had a struggle to
pay 10 p.c. with wool averaging 12id. per
pound; the average is now lid. or. a shade
under, and conditions generally arc vastly
more difficult.
The scrip, for which 325. was paid two
years ago, is now at 18s. in the market. The
return at that price is 6.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. The backing is 245. 3d. in net
tangibles.
Whitefield, Ltd. (Sydney)
Re-
To Re- serves.
Profits , Dividends \ serves. £
March, £ Pref. Ord. £ £ 12,10 G
1929.. 21,479 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 18,109 3370 10,470
1930.. 26,226 8 ~ 15',, ~ 20,192 6034 21,500
1931.. 8,292 4 ~ Nil 3,200 5092 26,602
Until last year the history of this co., which
set up in 1923 to finance hire agreements, has
been one of quick expansion, fat profits arid
handsome divs. Alfred S. White, the present
chairman and also the secretary of Australian
Cash Orders, was the promoter and sole
director for the first four years.
It was a clean float; £22,632 of share
capital was gathered in the first year at a
cost of £BOO. Easy money and the popu-
larity of credit buying sent turnover bound-
ing along, and funds, including a substantial
amount of borrowed money, were kept con-
stantly employed. There were nice pickings
from trade discounts, and apparently a fairly
favorable experience so far as bad debis
were concerned. Thus, after attending to the
pref. requirements, the ords. got 15 p.c. m
each of the first two years, followed by 25 p.c.
in '26 and ’27, and then 15 p.c. again till
the close of accounts in 1930. Visibly little
attention was given to reserves, of which
there were £26,602 to support £196,960 of
paid capital—Bo,ooo prefs. and 120,000 ords.
—at March 31.
Last year there was a shrinkage
over, discounts were lighter, and
question became perplexing. T 1
profits (£26,980) were written £l9
of the previous year’s. _ Exes,
were £1309 lighter, despite the
taxes, leaving the net result £lB9f
of a full year’s pref. div. But.
the doubtful outlook, the prefs. had to be
content with half a meal, and the ords.
were passed by.
During the year the book value of advances
was reduced £16,312, and £18,582 was wiped
off the creditor item, mainly overdraft and
loans:—
Paid Sundry
Capital. Creditors. Advances, etc.
1924.. £22,632 £13,106 £37,133
1925.. 46,477 20,225 71,263
1927.. 63,000 107,701 184,538
1928.. 141,879 124,572 286,033
1929.. 168,533 97,867 293,903
1930.. 192,472 113,805 342,797
1931.. 196,960 95,223 326,485
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£231,262) was £2270 stronger than at the
close of accounts in 1930. Everything
depends upon the soundness of debtors bal-
ances, secured mainly by mortgages on future
incomes, which are not the assets they weie
a few years ago. The book value of advances
could shrink over 70 p.c. before any of the
creditors’ money would be in danger.
Competition for a smaller volume or busi-
ness at reduced rates, and further cuts in
trade discounts, can be expected to affect
earnings in the immediate future, while
taxation will make overhead difficult to
restrain. Past performances, therefore, are
not much of a guide as to what can be
expected.
The market, which has lost whatever
affection it had for these finance cos., prices
the £1 cum. prefs. (8 p.c.), which have priority
as to capital, at 14s. Allowing for the accrued
div., the return at that price is 12 p.c.; the
book value of the cover is £2 15s. lid. in net
tangibles. The ords., backed by 245. id. in
net tangibles, have not an active market.
Singapore Hume Pipe Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 959 Nil 959 18,209
1924.. 9,595 12J p.c. = 5000 4595 13,614
1925.. 1,482 Nil 1482 12,132
1926.. 8,033 10 p.c. = 4000 4033 8,099
1927 7,800 8 „ „ 3200 4600 3,499
Reserves.
1928.. 11,301 10 „ „ 4000 7301 3,802
1929.. 11,699 15 „ „ 6000 5699 9,501
1930.. 12,074 15 „ „ 6000 6074 15,575
1931.. 11,001 15 „ „ 6000 5001 20,5/6
This little one of the Hume family, which
put up a factory at Singapore in 1922, con-
tinues to give a remarkably good account
of itself, considering the difficulties. Gov-
ernment orders, on which the business was
built up, have been curtailed, following a
drop in revenue, due to the collapse ot
prices in the rubber and tin markets; j>iu
whatever the co. missed in this way has
been largely made up by the growth m
small orders, and a firm hold appears to
have been kept on exes.
Turnover was not quite so good, ana
profits are now subject to Commonwealth
taxation, which called for an extra £2-66
last year. Nevertheless the net resnlt was
27.5 p.c. on capital as against 30.1, 26.2.
19.5 and 20 p.c. back to 1926, so the 15 P-c.
to shareholders —5 p.c. of it is labelled
bonus —wa.s repeated with ease. Oyer the
last nine years divs. have averaged 9.0 p.c.,
(Continued on page 16.)


CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
THE CHAIRMAN’S COMMENTS IN THE ACTUARIAL REPORT
AS AT END OF 52nd YEAR
(PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD).
IN connection with the Actuarial Report of the Society,
brief particulars of which were published in the Financial
Columns of the “Herald” on Friday, sth inst., Mr. George
Crowley, the Company’s Chairman, adds a few interesting
remarks.
1 was nervous [Mr. Crowley said] about advising the Board
to make a distribution at all this year. £380,000 is a lot
of money to divide at a time when none of us know where
we are.
LARGE RESERVES.
I knew we had reserves as well, of many hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds, which we had accumulated during the past
1 0 years to provide for contingencies. But for the first time
in my life—and I have spent the best part of it in building
up this great Institution —I confessed to a feeling of trepida-
tion.
We have in our custody in potential claims of widows and
orphans and old-age claimants over twenty-three millions
of money. Not large as the figures of some Life Assurance
Offices go, ’tis true. In England, for instance, one company,
the old Prudential, has the care of nearly five hundred
millions of money for similar purposes, and it is carrying out
its trust well. But the City Mutual’s amount is quite large
enough for me. Far more important than bonuses could
ever be is the sense of absolute security to these dependants
on the forethought of fathers and brothers and other heads
of families.
Ordinarily the thing would not worry me one scrap.
I had been talking all these years past of the necessity to go
slow. We had, year by year, been making provision for
possible contingencies. We were already paying the largest
bonuses in the world. We could have nearly doubled these
bonuses if we chose. But I had been through the 93 trouble
and could not bring myself to believe that the expenditure
of four or five hundred millions of money in War, an expen-
diture which returned us nothing at all in the way of
revenue, could justify the extraordinary prosperity which
Australia was seemingly experiencing.
TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE.
It was too good to be true. Four hundred millions of money
blown up in powder without a shilling return could never,
in my opinion, be a good thing financially, and must inevit-
ably bring its aftermath.
That was the theme of my annual discourses at the City
Mutual Annual Meetings for many years. There was bound
to be, later on, a day of reckoning
And so we carefully hid our savings or reserved them. And
at the end of 1930 our reserves, both hidden and disclosed,
meant that we had an extra £650,000 “in the stocking” in
case we required it.
And, if I added to that the £380,000 which Mr. Diamond,
the Actuary, recommended his Board to divide, we had then
somewhere in the vicinity of a million of money in excess of
what the Actuary, carefully going into the figures, computed
the Society’s liabilities. It was, perhaps, the strongest posi-
tion of any Life Office on earth.
WHY BE PESSIMISTIC?
“But,” argued Mr. Diamond, “why be pessimistic about the
matter? Why throw a wet blanket over everything? The
surplus is there. It belongs to the Policy-holders. Why not
divide it and let them have the benefit of it? Let the future
look after itself. Don’t meet trouble half-way. Australia,
in my opinion, has a glorious future. Its difficulties are only
temporary. We have had them before, and, in my
opinion,” said Mr. Diamond, “there are men at the helm
quite capable of handling the difficulty, and our troubles will
probably be in a fair way to disappear long before 1931
is over.”
And so our bonuses go out to-day to our fifty-eight thousand
members all over Australia. They are the largest bonuses,
I say with pride, ever paid by any Life Office in the British
Empire.
In addition, we are carrying over an undivided surplus of
over £ 1 90,000.
STILL APPREHENSIVE.
But, still, frankly speaking, I am apprehensive of the future
unless we get some measure of sane administration in Aus-
tralia. We don’t know, for instance, what taxation we are
up against in the near future. We are quite prepared to pay
our share willingly, but we have no idea what that share will
be, and one gets anxious about that sort of thing, especially
a Life Office, and a Mutual Life Office at that. It must not
be lost sight of that a Mutual Life Office is not an ordinary
commercial venture. It is merely an aggregation of units
desirous of making some provision for dependants in the
event of premature death. It is a thrift association. It in-
volves self-denial for the sake of protecting the helpless
ones who otherwise would be a drag on the State. And to
that extent, surely, it is not too much to say that a Mutual
Life Office is entitled to some measure of recognition by the
authorities.
Still, as I said in the “Herald” on the 28th November, 1928:
“I see no reason why the Insurance Companies should
be exempt from necessary taxation. It might mean a
reduction in profits and possibly a lowering of our
bonuses, but with the Commonwealth finances as they
are, someone has to pay, and we should not raise the
cry to tax the other fellow.”
At that time, it will be remembered, a deputation repre-
senting certain Life Offices approached the Treasurer with
a view to immunity from taxation.
I suppose we shall all have to share in the general reconstruc-
tion, which seems inevitable, if Australia is to face its obli-
gation. And no Australian worthy of the name wishes to
shirk his obligations. But we shall have a hard road to hoe,
all the same,
A proportion of our Policy-holders funds, for instance, is
invested in mortgage on real estate, and real estate has
“slumped” with a vengeance. It will, no doubt, come again,
but I am speaking of things as they are to-day.
To add to it all, there is a Moratorium in existence. There
are some deserving cases where a Moratorium should be
granted, but the City Mutual in its more than fifty years’
history has never required a Moratorium to give relief in
such cases.
There is, unfortunately, a section of people, though, who
have not interest enough to pay their principal nor principle
enough to pay their interest. And there is no Moratorium,
by the way, for claims or endowments matured or loans on
policies or surrender values or other outgo on the part of
the Mutual Life Office. That has to be borne in mind.
Later on, either later or sooner, but it may be later, there
will be a recovery, but it will, in my opinion, be a slow
recovery unless something quite unexpected happens.
INTEREST RATES.
And meanwhile the interest rate must come down appreci-
ably. That is inevitable. The Mortgagor cannot pay the
ordinary rate at present. That is a certainty.
We have been getting 7 per cent, on an average on our
investments, and if we were only getting 3 2 per cent, we can
pay our way. But unless rates and charges and taxation
and other imposts come down, well, where is the investor
to get even per cent. 7
And then there are the buildings that an Institution like this
owns. Everyone is crying out for a reduction in rent, and
many of the tenants pay no rent at all, although some of
them could well afford to do so. You can’t get your rent
and you can’t get your property. If you attempt to get your
property, the Anti-eviction League comes in and threatens
to pull the whole house down about your ears.
Well, that doesn’t help bonuses for a Life Office.
And then, there are the Government securities, of which the
City Mutual holds a fairly large proportion. Perhaps the
least said about them for the present the better.
Still, if the traditions of Australian pluck and resolution and
honesty of purpose are manifested in this crisis, as they were
in the dark days of 1893 and 1914, all will be well, and we
shall triumphantly emerge from the trouble we are now
going through and face the future with confidence.


è
A* M* P
Don’t leave your difficulties
to your heirs and executors
'WO years ago your affairs looked in
-*■ good trim. Your work was profit-
able; your obligations, though heavy, did
not give you a moment’s concern.
Then came difficult days, and, in
spite of all your careful planning, your
estate shrank. It continued to shrink,
and you now realise that, should you die
before you have time to straighten things
out, your heirs and executors will inherit
a burden of difficulty.
Why leave such difficulties when
you can solve them now yourself?
With the help of the A.M.P. you
can banish this anxiety at once. There
is a suitable A.M.P. policy (available to
any man in good health) that will
immediately restore the comfort you
formerly had in your estate. For a com-
oaratively small premium the estate you
If? ;iiii Ifc
m
PljjM
m
m§u
■
NT
Iklltli
1 :
ê
Established 1849.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, General Manager.
Assets, £83,500,000.
£19,168 of intangibles have been rubbed out
of the sheet, and £20,576 of genuine reserves
have been accumulated to support and assist
£40,000 of paid capital.
Finances are comfortable. At March 01,
stocks (£11,182). book debts (£2861) and
cash, etc. (£22,858), totalled £34,125 more
than the amount coming to creditors
(£2776), and that was £14,236 stronger than
the more or less liquid surplus at the pre-
vious balance. There was little change in
the book value of fixed assets (£21,679).
During the current term subsidiary fac-
tories are to be put up in the F.M.S., where
prospects are said to be encouraging. Still,
earnings depend largely upon public works
expenditure, which is likely to be further
curtailed. The work being done in associa-
tion with Hume Steel is claimed to be profit-
able, and extension of the business is spoken of.
Capital is in 50,000 £1 shares, of which
40.000 arc paid to 15s. On the market
the contribs. are priced at 17s. 6d.; the
return at that figure being 12.8 p.c. so long
as the 15 p.c. div. continues. The net
tangible backing per £1 of paid capital is
30s. 3d., mostly plant, etc., worth what it
can earn.
Associated Newspapers
They were a very expensive flock, and the
early demise of most of them and the re-
duced earning capacity of the survivors left
the venture heavily overcapitalised. Differ-
ences on the board recently led to the resig-
nation of Sydney Snow, H. Campbell Jones,
It. H. Gordon and IT. Baldwin from the
directorate. That left Hugh Denison (chair-
man), John Butters and Fordyce Wheeler.
They appointed Graham Waddell. F. 11.
Tout, F. H. Stewart, Dr. Ziele and D. W.
Roxburgh as new directors.
Last week the soiled linen was washed,
and shareholders, who have not yet been
given a clear statement of the financial posi-
tion of the whole undertaking, regretted
the resignations and expressed confidence
in the present board. Exactly what it pro-
poses to do to straighten out the tangle
has not been broadcast.
Associated has £3,577,000 of capital to feed
in 1,483,999 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 2,093,001
ords., mostly represented by intangibles.
Chief earning asset is a holding of 969,692
ords. in Sun Newspapers. In addition, there
are the “Sunday Guardian,” the newly-
launched “Daily Telegraph” and “Womans
Budget”; all doubtful contributors to the
pool. For the 12 mouths to March 31, .1930,
the “Sun” co. netted £185,574, or enough
to meet Associated’s pref. requirements and.
then show 3.9 p.c. on that co.’s ord. capital.
But earnings have slumped heavily since,
and exchange and primage and other taxes
have swelled outgoings. Thus, for the six
months to March 31, Associated’s pref. div.
was at the rate of 4 p.c. p.a. Moreover,
competition may soon be in _ the field, and
nobody can say what that might mean.
The market, which regards a readjustment
of capital as inevitable, prices the prefs.
around 95., and speculates in the ords. at 2s.
Surrender Values
A client had two policies for £250 matur-
ing at age 50 in the A.M.P. and City Mutual
respectively, the policy in the former co.
taken out five months after the other. Yearly
premiums: A.M.P., £l5 4s. 10; City Mutual,
£l5 13s. 9d. On inquiring as to surrender
value he found that the present values of the
bonuses were: A.M.P., £39 19s. < 2d.\ s City
Mutual, £42 2s. lid. But the amounts pay-
able as surrender value of sums assured were:
A.M.P., £145 2s. 2d.; City Mutual, £9O 10s.
3d. Can you explain why the City Mutual,
with larger bonuses, offers so much less sur-
render value — Service Department In-
quiry.
It is a matter of policy. The A.M.P. m
effect says: “This man lias a right to go oat
when he likes and take the full value of his
payments with him.” It, therefore, gives
him 100 p.c. of the reserve value of his
policy. The City Mutual in effect says: “If
a man finds his premiums too great a
burden we will issue him a fully-paid policy.
(In the case quoted, assuming the figures
given are right, the paid-up with-bonus
policy, maturing at 50 or previous death,
would be for £239.) But we do not think
that a man who has taken out a policy for
the benefit of his family or the protection of
his own old age should be encouraged to
cash it up.” It therefore fixes the cash pay-
ment low.
Austral Malay
Austral Malay registered a profit of but
£251 for the 12 months to Dec. 31;
that is disregarding £1277 charged to pro-
specting account. Of the half-dozen subsidi-
aries, only Asam Kumbang paid a div.; tin,
worth £lBl 12s. 6d. when the year opened,
had dropped to £lO5 12s. 6d. at the close of
accounts. The decision of the F.M.S. and
Siam Governments not to alienate further
lands for mining purposes during the present
crisis restricted prospecting there, and will
continue to do so until the ban is lifted.
Properties that were investigated were re-
jected.
At the close of accounts external liabili-
ties totalled £62,052, including £37,888 of
loans, chiefly from Kampong Kamunting
and Asam Kumbang, and am overdraft of
£18,442. Liquids amounted to £63,662, all
but £79 of which had been advanced to three
of the pups—Pungah, Thabawleik and
Puchong. Share holdings figure at £211,335
(par value).
Thabawleik’s dredge, in Burmali, closed
down under the restriction agreement last
July, and has remained idle since. The
loss for the year was £6267, reducing the
p. and 1. credit to £34. Though recoveries
(94.5 per cent.) were good costs were 8.2 d.
a yard; they have been as high as a shilling,
and are due, apparently, to the dredge’s
failure to live up to its nominal capacity of
100,000 c.y. monthly. New buckets, already
purchased but not fitted, are expected to
improve digging performances. Loans, mostly
from the directors, which stood at £41,000
at the end of 1926, had been reduced to
£12,500 at Dec. 31 last. It is hoped to raise
£30,000 externally to pay off the existing
debt and make the necessary alterations to
the dredge.
Asam Kumbang, after striking off £3664
for depreciation, netted £7OlO, which, with
£7814 brought forward, made £14,824 avail-
able. Of this three divs., totalling 2s. per
share, took £lO,OOO, leaving £4824 to go
forward. Finances are snug, and, if con-
ditions become no worse, it is hoped to “pay
small dividends periodically.” The treat-
ment capacity of the plant is to be enlarged,
and costs are expected to benefit.
Kamjpong Kamunting exhibited a loss of
£2117. So reserves were raided for £14,072
to pay a 6d. div. (£3500) and provide
£10,338 for depreciation, etc. The average
price realised for ore was £145 as against
£199 in 1929. No. 1 dredge at Karangor
has been idle since August last, and, fol-
lowing boiler trouble, No. 2 at Kamunting
shut down in January; neither will set in
again until the outlook brightens. To meet
£1155 coming to creditors the co. had liquids
totalling £36,329 at Dec. 31.
Ulu Yam dropped £275 on working account,
to which £3150 was added for administrative
charges, but interest, etc., brought in £506,
leaving the year’s loss at £2919. To meet
£463 coming to creditors there was £8546
in liquids at Dec. 31. The dredge, which
shut down in July, will remain idle till
metal prices improve.
Pungah disclosed a net profit of £ll2B
after capitalising £5228 on account of de-
velopment. No'. 1 dredge lost £4403 for the
first half of the term, but piled up a work-
ing profit of £10,284 for the second half.
No. 2 dredge was down £2059 for the 12
months. The debt to the parent had in-
creased to £62,125 at the close of accounts,
and £1295 was coming to sundry creditors.
Liquids totalled £1771. With tin at £l2O,
substantial repayments will be possible; at
£lBO per ton a year’s output would enable
the co. to clean the slate.
Puchong, a comparatively late starter,
showed a working profit of £10,898, _of
which £5145 was struck off for depreciation,
and administrative charges, etc., took all but
£72 of the balance. Expenditure entailed
in setting in has been wiped out, so surplus
cash during the current year should be
available to lighten the £30,100 loan from
the Straits Trading Co. There was £1702
coming to other creditors, and £lBlB in the
bank. The dredge has proved itself capable
of digging 190,000 c.y. a month at an aver-
age cost of 3.87 d. The question of closing
down was considered, but it was decided to
carry on to prevent the accumulation of
interest on the debt.
Broken Hill will, have to again review its
costs. Towards the end of last year it was
thought things couldn’t get worse; but lead,
then £l4 ss. a ton, has actually fallen an-
other £3, and there is not the faintest pros-
pect of early improvement. Had all the
world’s .production been put on the market
the price would probably have been a couple
of pounds lower still, and that would have
brought it below the record low figure of
1894 (£9 9s. 6d.) ; but Broken Hill alone
has 100.000 tons piled up unsold —over half
a year’s output. There is a small ray of
hope for zinc; much of the world’s increased
supplies has been coming from American
mines, which give zinc as the main product,
with lead as a secondary. With zinc down
to £lO 15s. it is doubtful whether some of
these mines, worth only 14 p.c. zinc and 7
p.c. lead, can keep going.
The Queensland Mines Dept, recently sub-
sidised a co-operative body of experienced
tinminers, under their own elected manager,
and put them into the Comet mine at Irvine-
bank. Operations have disclosed enough
payable ore to keep the show going for a
twelvemonth. Of course other N.Q. miners
are now clamoring for similar concessions to
enable them to work known deposits, especi-
ally g0 * ld *
The Mt. Mlascotte mine, Yungaburra (Q.),
is in the hands of McCloy brothers, who have
cleaned out the main shaft to a depth of 85ft.
and taken out a crushing of 52 tons, which
returned 390 z. gold. The ore was worth about
£4 a ton, including the premium. This in-
duced Oriomo G. M. Co., to take an option
over the mine. Trial crushings are being
sent to the Chillagoe smelters, there being no
battery in the district.
* * * « *
Kimberley Options’ scrip has been strongly
supported in Perth and Kalgoorlie. _ Work
done on the co.'s southern lease, at Edjudina
to the 100 ft. level has exceeded expectations.
Why the northern lease, on which a promis-
ing quartz reef is outcropping, has been
neglected is puzzling Westralian share-
holders. A parcel of some hundreds of tons
from the southern area is to be treated at
Yarri State battery, and returns are ex-
pected to average between £8 and £lO.
* * * *
King of Creation shareholders, who have
been asked for another 6d. a share, are not
in raptures over the terms of the option
recently acquired by the co. over the Lady
Central, at Meekatharra (W.A.). Purchase
consideration is £16,500 cash, payable £l2OO
June 1 and the balance spread over the
period to March 1, 1932. Still, Lady Central
has f some good yields to her credit, and
promises more, according to the expert who
investigated the property.
jlj J{! ❖ *
For quarter of a century the May Queen
lease, south of Southern Cross (W.A.), has
had a career varied enough for anything.
The first owners, Liddle and Dominy, made
big profits out of it, but the show has long
been in other hands. Last month 60 tons
2130z. go hi. *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department A
The United States Government has fust
floated a loan of 160 millions. What for,
ivhcn there are 800 'millions of gold lying idle
in the Treasury vaults? —3974.
It is not lying idle —any more than the
little bit of gold in our Commonwealth Bank
(Notes Dept.) is idle, or than the lock on
the- strongroom-door is idle because no
burglar thinks it worth while to try it. Of
the gold described as in the TJ.S. Treasury,
equal to about SOO millions sterling as stated,
three-fourths is actually held by Federal
reserve banks and agents, most of it against
notes issued. (Federal reserve banks are
authorised to issue notes secured by gold or
eligible paper, with a minimum gold reserve
of 40 p.c.) There are also gold and silver
certificates, backed dollar for dollar by gold or
silver: and provision is also made for P a N
ing “Treasury notes of 1890 m gold
silver. , ,
(1) Quantity and value of opal produced
and number of prospectors on Dtghtmng
Ridge (N.S.W.) t (2) Do the production
figures represent takings from many '
finds? (3) Docs the district offer possibili-
ties of further finds? —3766.
(1) According to figures published m
annual report, N.S.W. Department of Mines
1930, £5500 worth of opal was produced from
Lightning Ridge in that year. (At Orawi
£2250 worth was obtained by about 59 men.
At Lightning Ridge itself about £.-,250 worth
by 132 men.) But there are many men who
do not report their finds. (2) Most of this
came from old ground, and very little pros-
pecting was done. (3) Yes.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.E.M.: Don’t know them; and the
largest metal-buying firm in Sydney doesn’t know
them, either J.A.M.S.: Only possible way of find-
ing out is by asking the co. You need not hesitate
to do that J.M.V.: There is a limited market for
first-quality mica; price, according to size of sheets.
Present price, up to about 12s. per lb. for big sheets.
llobbo: Yes A. 5.0.: (1) Outlook too obscure.
But if you want to take a chance, go for one of the
sounder industrials —like General Industries. (2)
Not the strongest by any means... .H.G.8.: Don t,
like any of that group; they have been discussed
again and again... .T.F.N.: Don’t know; but some
of the shrewdest are buying carefully-selected city
and suburban property.


it's
a
to
•J&.
AS®
m
s>
:w-Xv
I
;
S¥S
ww&wS&W;
»
»v
u
r
fS®TH
mI6®I
CA
LLS
Eaaasifl
10-6'
20-1'
Also in Boxes of
50 and 100: in
Tins of 50 —and
Oval Heavy-
weights.
HANDS generally give very definite indica-
tions of a person’s character. These hands,
for instance, obviously belong to a young lady
of fashion —a lady who insists on the best of
everything. That’s why it’s perfectly safe to
bet, "10 to 1 it’s a Capstan" she’s smoking.
That satisfying something which only these
cigarettes provide has made them first favorites
with people of more exacting tastes.
muiiL
Capstan
Made in your Own Country at the Garden Factory
Raleigh Park —by
W. D. & H. O. Wills (Australia) Ltd.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOK COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Love Race”
Royal “The Calendar”
State ~.. Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Mikado”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Musings of an occasional theatregoer
(illustrated by Skipper) :
I often wonder why newspapers continue
to employ dramatic critics. It seems ter-
ribly old-fashioned, because the drama has
disappeared from the stage as completely
as bullock teams from Collins-street. A
dramatic critic must feel as out of place
in a theatre nowadays as an auditor in a
N. S. Wales Government department.
What can a dramatic critic say about
“Follow a Star,” the new Ernest Rolls
show at Melbourne Princess, for instance?
Not enough to justify the managerial
whisky he has gulped in the intervals to
revive his drooping spirits and quieten his
inferiority complex. But if he were a
psycho-analyist, or an anthropologist, or an
economist, or a sociologist, or even a build-
ing contractor, he would have plenty of
material to work on.
As an economist he could remark: “No
doubt the severity of the sales tax has been
the compelling factor in the dressing of
some of the ballets.” A building contractor
might be fired to suggest: “Since violent
exercise seems to agree so much with the
ladies of the chorus, if the season lasts long
enough it may be necessary to strengthen
the stage considerably.” After listening to
a few of the gags, a student of comparative
sociology would be enabled to point out that
“Mr. Stan Foley is evidently a profound
psychologist, since he so fully understands
that jokes about faithless wives and erring
husbands are bound to be well received by
an audience of monogamists.” An anthropolo-
gist would probably be inspired to comment
on “the remarkable similarity between some of
the latest dances and the ancient rites of
ihe aboriginals, aimed at increasing the food
supply by sympathetic magic, the analogy
“No doubt the severity of the sales tax has been the compelling
factor in the dressing of some of the ballets.”
in this case, of course, being with the
receipts at the box-office.”
As for a psycho-analyst, he would be
able to fill two columns with ease merely
by detailing the Freudian symbolism con-
tained in such sketches as “Pussycat’s
Promenade,” in which a reference to tom-
cats reduces the house to helpless laughter,
and by listing the various perversions, inhibi-
tions, phobias and fetichisms which form the
basis of every successful turn on the pro-
gramme ; and a naturalist might draw de-
ductions from the fact, observed by
numerous eminent scientists, that associ-
ation with naked savages is much less excit-
ing, in a way, than the spectacle of a ballet-
dancer in an abbreviated undergarment; and
these deductions could not help but be com-
plimentary to a modern theatrical manage-
ment.
Considered non-dramatically, “Follow a
Tart” seemed to me excellent entertain-
ment. The sketches are short, bright and
frequent, and the dancing of the Fallow
Twins, of Stanelli and Blanche and of
Desiree and Montague is all that could be
wished for. The artist has been asked to
provide as much of Athol Tier as the page
lias room for, but it is enough. Mr. Tier
is a tip-top actor, and there is as much
histrionic talent in his kneecaps as in the
whole of the rest of the cast put together.
Mr. Rolls knows his job, which is to
serve leg-of-mutton in all it s infinite un-
varieties. He serves it hashed, roast, bdiled,
sea-pied, stewed and rissoled. One of these
nights conductor Cyril Connolly will look
up from his place in the orchestral well and
see a fully-clothed woman before him and
the sight will be too much for him. He is in
no immediate danger.
There were two “First Performances in
e °+i F m ltz Hart’s orchestral pro-
letS at A he Town Hall, Melbourne, on
mwa'r ? ne ' u ’ as Honegger’s Concertino
£L P r°. for & and orchestra and the other
lias Louis Hattenbach’s tone poem, “Aus-
It was easy to place the local
omposition--the musical equivalent of a
Royal Academy picture. The cautious
critic halts before .Mr. Honegger. Also on
the programme was Beethoven’s “Eroica”
symphony. When first played it must have
sounded strange, not to say blasphemous,
even imbecile, to many good citizens of
Vienna. Everybody praises it nowadays,
especially the people who are still secretly
bored with it. A hundred years hence when
books are being written about the genius
of Honegger present writer would hate to
enjoy the disagreeable immortality of being
quoted as one of the idiots who said he was
an imbecile and a blasphemer.
Nevertheless, a critic ought to be honest.
So the only thing to do is to jot down a
first listener’s actual impressions. They
ran somewhat in this way.
A pig is drowning. Several pigs are
drowning. Somebody is rolling an iron tank
about. It has fallen on the toe of a wharf-
laborer. The laborer is eloquent about it.
Very eloquent. James Joyce’s “Ulysses”
isn’t in it for bad language. Water lapping
amongst reeds. A pretty sunset. That bit
sounded like the emotions of a musiclover
with a boil on his neck putting a stiff collar
on to go to one of Fritz Hart’s concerts.
The iron tank again. More wliarf-laborer.
Lapping water. Pink sunset. More charm-
ing bits of natural scenery. Somebody has
spilt a pot of red paint on it. Never heard
anything that sounded so like a picture by
Shore or Frater. The man with the boil
again. The pigs. Wind in the trees. That
was a nice bit. That was better. Bang!
Thump!! Blast!!! It’s all over.
Well, it was better than the pretentious
artificiality of the aria by Massenet that
followed it. It was lively and unemotional,
as if the chap that wrote it enjoyed life
and had a good conscience. Fritz Hart is
to be congratulated for making it avail-
able. Incidentally, his orchestra, which is
the finest in Melbourne, is on its beam ends
financially, and, if the public does not come
to its assistance, will shortly have to go ouf
of commission. The director has given his
services for nothing for three years past,
and the orchestrions have rehearsed two'
nights a week the year through. At two shil-
lings and one shilling they have given far and
away the best programmes in local musical
history. A company has been formed to
carry the organisation, and all are invited
to join. There will be no dividends except
in Heaven.
* # *
Tenor Hislop and his pianistic batman,
Isidor Goodman, made an effusively popular
programme available to a large crowd at
the Auditorium, Melbourne, on Saturday.
Joseph’s voice remains in good order and
condition, and he continues to sing pas-
sionate Italian opera with the decent
restraint of a good Scotsman, a trifle sus-
peeeious of these emotional foreigners and
their vagaries. He concluded a fine render-
ing of the aria from the last act of “La
Tosca” with his usual expression of a Pres-
byterian elder about to take round the plate.
The pianist was declared a prime favorite,
especially after his playing of the Chopin
Scherzo in B flat
minor. There will
be more concerts on
Wednesday and
Saturday.
* *
The Gilsullivan
season continues to
break records at
Melbourne Royal,
and the run of “The
Mikado” is likely to
last a week or so or
a year or so longer.
Part of the excite-
ment is due to a
newspaper contro-
versy over sundry
tamperings with the
sacred text, but most
of it is due to an
exceptionally bril-
liant production.
Contralto Dorothy
Gill is said to have
received a call to - go
to London to replace
a lady killed in a
motor accident, and
her value in the
Firm’s eyes has gone
up considerably in
consequence. It is not anticipated that
Australian audiences will be deprived
of her yet awhile, and it is more
than likely that she will continue to be torn
between two fires for the remainder of the
season. “The Yeoman of the Guard” will
succeed “The Mikado” when that potentate
has been deposed by popular opinion.
# * *
The new management of Melb. Tivoli
keeps on announcing fresh engagements of
foreign stars, and the impression of an
avalanche of vaudeville talent descending on
this devoted country deepens. In the mean-
time a bright and varied bill is provided by
the mainly home-grown performers.
* * *
The Greatest Show on Earth and the
wettest June for 20 years arrived simul-
taneously in Melbourne. The old stand pro-
vides reasonable protection from the elements,
however. The Wirthian enterprise is up to
standard. Four hefty damsels put halters
round their necks and are hoisted to the
ceiling, where they are whirled round like
beautiful corpses on a gibbet. An untamed
Cossack from the savannahs of Siberia, with
a sword between his teeth, circumnavigates a
horse in furious motion while his friends
“As much of Athol Tier as this Page has
room for.”
discharge revolvers and encourage him in lan-
guage which is presumably Cossack. There
are some clever head-balancers and some
comedians who are not comedians. If a circus
comedian were really funny patrons would feel
as outraged as Gilbert and Sullivan addicts
under similar circumstances.
“The Calendar,” in which Frank Harvey
makes a welcome return to Sydney, has
already been noted on this page from the
Melbourne end. One thing about it that
didn’t happen in Melbourne was the laughter
of a young man in the dress-circle. He
laughed as theatregoers have long forgotten
how to laugh. He roared and shook and
bounced in his seat. Not at nothing. There
are good jokes in the Wallace racecourse
One of these nights conductor Connolly
will look up and see a fully-clothed
woman and the shock will
be too much for him”
epic, and he laughed at the best of them.
Anyone thinking of starting a comedy ought
to get hold of that young man and pay him
a large salary to enjoy himself.
The play brings the Royal back from the
grip of the talkies. How long it can hold
it is another matter. If it doesn’t get the
crowd it won’t be the fault of generous
casting. A mere racing committee appear-
ing in only one short scene is made up of
such people as Harvey Adams, Alexander
Marsh and Leonard Stephens. It is a minor
commentary on the state of dramatic art
in Sydney that, while everybody else, not
only in that scene but in the whole play,
was given the customary applause of recog-
nition on appearance, not one pair of hands
recognised Marsh. That is the fate of hav-
ing played in such piffling stuff as Shak-
speare for years. And Marsh is one
of the best actors of the whole crowd oi
them. Other good ones in the piece, apart
from Harvey, who does a somewhat faded
part very well, are Campbell Copelin, John
Fernside, Coral Brown, Pirie Bush, Darcy
Kelway and Tal Ordell. Elma Gibbs has
done much better work.
There is something not quite satisfactory
about the piece as presented. It is possibly
the play itself; but this Showman has an
idea that if Harvey were to change places
with Copelin it would be better. Copelin
plays the part of a jealous whisky-soaking
husband of the upper ten with passable
realism, but Harvey could have given it a
touch of the sinister that Copelin cannot
manage. On the other hand, Copelin could
be a much more convincing good fellow than
Harvey is.
The Dawson - Hambourg onslaught con-
tinues about the most successful of the con-
cert season to date. The explanation is sim-
ply that at Sydney Town Hall they are put-
ting on as varied and polished a show as
can be found anywhere round the harbor.
They aim at entertaining, and score all
along the range. The hall was sufficiently
crowded for all last week’s concerts to make
D. and H. extend their stay for another three
performances, the closing two of which will
be given to-morrow (Thursday) afternoon
and on Saturday night.
* * *
Carrie Tennant, at the Community Play-
house, Sydney, has started the most prac-
tical scheme for helping Australian drama
(if any) that present writer has so far
heard of. On a Roneo press she, or one of
her associates, runs off editions of all suitable
Australian plays that are made available,
and copies can be bought by amateur
dramatic societies at 2s. each.
In this way a play written and produced
in Sydney is not, as it has been up to now,
doomed to a few local productions and then
death. The conspirators are in touch with
amateur houses in other cities, and can pass
their goods on there, and whenever they
find an amateur society in a country town
they try to do business with it. That there
is no money in the enterprise should be
obvious from the charge, and a number of
the budding playwrights are so cocky about
getting produced at all, or are so philan-
thropic or altruistic, that they ask for no
royalties.
This is, of course, a silly mistake. Take
it from one psychological point of view
alone. It is not a theory but a demonstrable
fact that the Australian regards anything
you give him for nothing with grave sus-
picion. He positively likes to pay. A
friend instanced to the present writer re-
cently that when _ the Sydney “Telegraph”
was launched in its latest form, copies of
the first issue were thrown, regardless, over
the fences of Suburbia. In most places
the gift would have been accepted as such
—something for nothing. Here the re-
action among those who were not already
“Telegraph” addicts was largely that the
throwers had a hide.
Again, the reward of even a few shillings
on each production would be a definite en-
couragement for the playwright to do more
and better work. It is not a matter of
art for mart’s sake; it is simply that reward
and the hope of reward are divine inspira-
tions. And since only an ass would attend
more than one or two productions of his
own play, and even an ass could not attend
all productions if the piece were Roneo-
broadcast about Australia, the small sums
coming in from time to time would represent
something tangible. The play might be
hissed at Piper’s Flat, but Piper s Flat s
few bob might possibly induce the author to
concoct something that would be applauded.
Any society interested can get a list ot
the plays obtainable from the Community
Playhouse, Forbes-street, Sydney. Ihe
guarantee of this Page does not go with any
of them, but the enterprise is hereby wished
the very best of success.
It is an advance on what the Community
has evidently found a sufficiently paying
policy to be worth pursuing, the production
of as much Australian work as dared to
crop up. Its best and most successful play
lias been “Two Minutes’ Silence,” by Leslie
Haylen. The latest Australian product at
the Community is Ruth Bedford’s “Murder
Next Door,” which, when The Bulletin
looked in on it, was being witnessed by a
packed house. The piece was being acted
rather better than it deserved by Harold
Watch, Clive Qoppard, Betty Chester and
Jane Connolly, and rather worse than any-
thing could deserve by Alexander Gordon,
though that young man had the excuse that
he was only there to take a plaee left
vacant by illness.
* * *
Adelaide Repertory scored a real success
with “The Show,” by Galsworthy, providing
a cast of over 30 without a really weak point
in it. Ray Walsh dominated the action as
the stern but human detective, with Beryl
Cook, Muriel Marks and Essie Hack as
the variously bereaved women who all
wanted the truth suppressed. Jack Ham
scored heavily as a Cockney father, Sando
and Matthews holding up the Press side of
this inquisition into bereaved relatives’ feel-
ings. A sound show, that kept three large
audiences gripped throughout.
* * *
“The Merry Widow,” at Brisbane Majesty's,
closes a season of three Williamson shows,
in which the best offering was “Dearest
Enemy.” The house was full, with the Gov.
in the front row of the stalls, on the night
The Bulletin looked in.
* * #
Humphrey Bishop’s effort to keep Sydney
Palace open with the light entertainer “A
Royal Routine” comes to an end this week,
and “The Love Race” is in its last laps at
Her Majesty’s, with “A Night Out” to
follow.
* * *
The Dorothy Brunton co. is to give Adel-
aide a view of “Dearest Enemy” and
“The Duchess of Dantzic” ; Perth and Mel-
bourne to follow. Arthur Stigant has been
recruited for the latest J.C.W. offensive.
* * *
Ivan Menzies, comedian of the Gilsullivan
troupe at Melbourne Royal, is inconsolable
when people fail to pronounce his handle in
“If the season lasts long enough it may be
necessary to strengthen the stage con-
siderably.”
what is claimed to be the only correct way
—namely, “Mengies.” As he is staying at
Melbourne’s leading hotel, he is up against
local custom to an almost unsurmountable
degree.
The Palette.
“F.S.”: No doubt ivitli the best intentions
the Felton Bequest trustees have published
their new London buyer’s 'explanation of
why he purchased the four indifferent pic-
tures now on view in the National Gallery
in Melbourne. It makes curious reading.
Besides the artistic reasons given, which are
unconvincing, the “Glasgow ” of Miss Green
was bought because “she told him that she
had just sold a small picture at the Paris
Salon for 3000 francs and that the Duchess
of Marlborough had bought one which was in
the Royal Academy.” The buyer is at pains
to assure the trustees that, until he visited
her, Miss Green was “quite unknown to him.”
As for “Hamelich,” by the Countess
Fabbricotti, Mr. Fraser, the owner of
the gallery where it was shown, told Mr.
Davies “that he considered it one of her best
things, although not such a popular subject
as some, perhaps:” Also the countess is
“the youngest daughter of the late Count
Fabbricotti, of Florence,” and “when barely
20 she sent a flower piece to the Inter-
national Exhibition in Venice” and “the
picture was sold”; moreover, “she is a poet
as well as an artist.” No comments were
supplied about the calamitous “Widowed,”
by the late Frank Holl. It would have
spoilt the effect if Mr. Davies had had to
confess that when he was the fashion Holl
sold his sentimental pictures for thousands
of guineas, was a constant exhibitor at the
Royal Academy and was as much sought
after by duchesses as the modern Miss Green.
Nohody regards him as of the least import-
ance to-day. The National Gallery now lias
four pictures all of which could have been
bettered by such local artists as Jorgensen,
Clarice Beckett and Colin Colahan —and no
exchange to pay. This sort of thing was
bound to happen when the Felton Trust chose
as its adviser a connoisseur instead of an
artist.


PRO BONO PUBLICO.
“Union officials made it clear that the industrial and political Labor movement was uncompromisingly opposed to the decision of the Premiers’ conference to reduce
wages and pensions.”- “S. M. Herald.”
UNION BOSS: “You’ll be damned if you eat them, so I warn you.”
THE PROMISERS: “Yes, I suppose so. But everybody will be damned if we don’t, so what does it matter?”
THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Reduce All to Basic Wage
A drastic remedy is cawed for. My idea
is a two-year plan of more equal sacrifice.
What’s wrong with a 100 p.c. tax on all
incomes over the basic wage? If the flower
of the nation’s manhood could sacrifice them-
selves for the duration of the war, surety the
population could make an economic sacrifice
for two years. —J. H. H., Proserpine (Q. ).
But is that equality of sacrifice—£looo
from one man and nothing at all from
another? What we have to seek, too, is a
scheme which will not have a fierce recoil.
To limit all incomes to the basic wage by taxa-
tion would mean throwing thousands of
domestic helps and others out of employ-
ment ; would cut the collectable rates of
many municipalities in halves, leading to
the dismissal of thousands of road-mainten-
ance men, etc.; would empty half the houses
in some suburbs and smash property values,
thus making the recovery of some financial
institutions (like the Government Savings
Bank) practically impossible. The com-
munity which has allowed values of its own
creation to become private property has
been a colossal ass; it should have taken
them for its own uses. And because it has
not done so, and because it has been a great
fodl otherwise, the community is now taking
far too large a bite out of private incomes
which are the earnings of industry and
thrift. Those taxes run up past 14s. in the
£■ The wage-earner who is asked for Is. in
the £ unemployment tax often thinks he is
(and he often actually is) overtaxed. Many
a man is paying 14 times that much, and
then is foolishly told that he is “escaping
sacrifice.”
Efficiency and Unemployment
Having read your articles on the depres-
sion I wish to point out that, if your plans
and proposals were carried out, this country
would be in the same position, for the
obvious reason that, owing to science, one
half of the world’s available labor can
produce sufficient for the whole of the
world's requirements. —Coral Miner, Bulli,
(N.S.W.).
This is probably the most widely held and
serious fallacy in the world to-day: it is
responsible for most of the calls to slow
down; to reduce working hours. It is all
based on the absurd assumption that man’s
(and woman’s) requirements are fixed. As
a matter of fact, they have multiplied a
hundredfold during the past 100 years, and
are capable of practically unlimited expan-
sion. Australia’s present trouble is that
it discovered new requirements, but, instead
of working to satisfy them, borrowed for
the purpose.
The Crisis of the ’Nineties
In the early ’nineties many Australian
banks and other cos. got into the same sort
of difficulty as the Commonwealth and States
are in noic. Presumably the affairs of those
cos. were in the hands of the leading finan-
ciers of Australia. llow did they get their cos.
out of the mess? —.T. N. 0., Morwell (Vic.).
Different managements met the trouble in
different ways—it largely depended on the
size of the trouble on their own doorstep.
In a few cases no appeal at all was made
to creditors: the shareholders (equivalent
to the citizens) met the whole trouble. There
was the City Bank of Sydney, for example—
not a great bank, but controlled by men
who hated the very name of reconstruction.
They carried on, put in deposits of then-
own, paid every creditor, had to go short
of dividends for many years (well into this
century they were paying only 2| p.e.), and
eventually, worn out and still lean with the
struggle, they transferred themselves to
another bank. The Commercial of Australia
belonged to a different school; and in any
case it could not have carried on without
reconstruction. At the time of the failure
the shareholders’ capital was £1,200,000.
Every penny of that was written off; the
only ordinary capital that remained was a
little got in laboriously from shareholders.
The creditors got some cash, some deferred
deposit receipts, some preference capital. In
every case within The Bulletin’s knowledge
where the creditors had to make a sacrifice,
the shareholders made a greater sacrifice
first. In the Q. N. Bank, for instance, besides
losing four-fifths of their capital, the share-
holders got no dividend for 23 years. In
one or two eases (Goldsbrough Mort’s was
a conspicuous example) it was thought that
some of the creditors —debenture-holders,
for example—had not got a fair deal, and
the men believed to be responsible never
afterwards quite recovered their good name.
Gold and Unemployment
Gold is scarce in Australia, and that, we
are told, is the cause of our troubles. But
gold is plentiful in the V.S.A., and money
an short call is there worth only 2 p.c.; yet
the U.S.A. have 8,000,000 unemployed. It
makes me wonder whether the scarcity or
abundance of gold has any bearing on the
case. Yet if it isn’t what is the cause of
unemployment ? —W. M. W., Glenelg (S.A.).
The scarcity of gold is the cause of our
troubles only in the same way as the cause
of every man’s death is shortness of breath.
A group of men may find oil wells, develop
an export trade and get millions of gold in
exchange. But the fact that there are mil-
lions of gold in the country doesn’t neces-
sarily mean that the worker there is well
paid, or well fed or well dressed. And even
if the gold was scattered among the inhabi-
tants of the country, it doesn’t follow that
they would even then be well off: they might
still be short of tucker —as many a “lucky”
digger has been on half the early gold rushes
of Australia. But, having shown that gold
isn't quite the magical thing it is supposed
to be, it isn’t so easy to say in a few words
what does cause, unemployment. When
Adam came to earth, there was employment
for him —to feed and (perhaps) clothe him-
self. All the succeeding millions of Adams
have come to earth with exactly the same
amount of work to do—each has 'to feed and
clothe himself. If any particular Adam can’t
get his employment, it is not because the
employment is not there; it is because he
in t! . le . right P lac e. Even in a works
of 000 men it isn t easy to keep them all fully
occupied: one man runs out of a job here
and has to be provided for somewhere else,
and 20 have to be rushed to a special job
that clamors to be done; and when it has
nthl S e ’ W eag y to P ut this 20 into
other jobs straight away. That happens in a
little works of 000 employees. Is it any
wonder that things don’t work quite smoothly
in a workshop of probably 300,000,000?
No Work to Do!
I cannot agree altogether with your
article headed “A Constructive Policy.” Even
if Australians would work for 10.9. per day
there is no great amount of work to give
them. —H. A. A., Adelaide (S.A.).
What that article tried to make clear was
that the 300,000 unemployed in Australia
could be kept quite busy supplying their
own wants. The other 900,000 working
people in Australia are for the moment not
only supplying their own wants, but carry-
ing the unemployed 300,000 on their backs
at a great sacrifice to themselves; and the
unemployed 300,000 are probably just about
as capable as the 900,000.
Has Gold Any Merits?
You admit yourselves that there is some-
thing wrong with gold as the world’s stan-
dard of value. It is liable to such tremen-
dous fluctuations owing to new discoveries,
or to a long absence of new discoveries, that
fluctuations in the prices of commodities
must be tremendous, too, since those prices
(in general) are governed by the abund-
ance or scarcity of gold. In fact, I begin
to wonder whether a single thing can be
said for gold as our sole standard of value.
—Sandfly, Port Lincoln (S.A.).
There is this to bo said for gold, to begin
with —its indestructibility : some of the gold
stored in Uncle Sam’s strongrooms was dug
probably thousands of years ago, and has
been in use ever since. Nothing else could
account for the enormous stock of gold in
the world. Any variation in the output
from year to year is but a drop compared
with an ocean. Now this cannot be said with
regard to any other single article in the
world. If there is a carry-over of wheat or
wool, it is a calamity: we ought to be de-
pendent for next year’s wheat on next
year’s harvest, for next year’-s wool on next
year’s clip. If, then, we are seeking to
avoid fluctuation of trade and industry by
finding a standard whose stocks and output
do not greatly vary, but which move
steadily upward to provide for the world’s-
growth, then gold comes in an easy winner,
with silver second and copper and tin pro-
bably third and fourth.
Wages and Standard of Living
On all sides I hear the cry, “Lower wages
—high tvages arc crippling the country.” It
seems to me the actual appeal is “Lower the
standard of living.” For a decrease of wages
with a maintenance of price levels amounts
to lowering the standard of living. Am I
right? —“Volley,” North Perth (W.A.).
Quite right; but the surest way to de-
crease the cost of living is to reduce wages.
If that doesn’t decrease the cost of living, it
is because something, has got in the road.
Low wages don't mean a low standard of
living; high wages can mean a low stan-
dard, through too large a proportion of the
wages going to support middlemen and to
purchase non-essentials. For instance, here
is a little community of 30 families, averag-
ing 12s. a day income. A grocer, butcher,
baker, greengrocer and “mixed business” live
in the township ; and it takes £3 a week each
to keep them going. That is £l5, or 10s.
Per family: in other words, 10s. has to be
added to the bills of every family in the
township to keep those five tradesmen going.
Suppose they could be reduced to three,
there would be a saving of £6, or 4s. off each
family’s bills: which would mean that they
could buy 4s. worth of extras, to raise their
standard of living/ For the same reason the
existence of a large body of non-producing
unemployed tends to lower the community s
standard of living.
The Dole
If it is agreed that the citizens who are
unemployed are out of work through no fault
of their own , what answer can be given to
the claim that they should be, provided with
a full wage? It seems to me that, as it was
national policy that cost them their jobs,
it should be national policy to give them at
least sufficient to maintain them in reason-
able comfort. —R. S., Benalla (Vic.)
Unfortunately wages are not something
that we can manufacture out of nothing. We
can’t have more than we produce—oi*borrow.
At present, it is true, we are apparently
doin ? more than this; we are living to a
*Ocat ex en on our at e unconsume
Induce of past years. But that can t go
on *°r long ; and consumption in excess of
pr ° duct *° n “ ust makc recovery more difli-
Th« J hit:lo £
I’°!!™' ’ i,*
to finance industry in the future. Here is
a farm which maintained a dozen peop c.
, , col i d obviously have nothing moie
£ ialded =
lts P roduets direct or they bought other
things with thc proceeds of sales _ If haM
a <] ozen other people are billeted on the.
f arm . without adding to its production,
obviously also the first dozen must go short
unless they have something put by—some-
thing put by with which to purchase plant
0r f or fencing or clearing. If that fund is
consumed, the new plant or the fencing or
the clearing cannot be done, and future em-
pioyment is checked. Australia is a big
f arm . an d that is what is happening to it.
]\| a i u tain the unemployed by all means; but
g e t them to production at the earliest pos-
s;t>le moment, and meanwhile keep in mind
the fact that every pound consumed without
re tnrn is a pound less available to assist
production (and therefore employment) in
f n tnrp
‘
D . , .
Kuss,a and Australia
Russia is supposed to be chiefly responsible
for the policy which Mr. Lang is pursuing
in N. 8. Wales. It seems, however, that,
whereas Russia is driving men and women
*p work in order to increase production, Mr.
Lang s scheme is to throw men and women
idle and consume the savings of the richer
people. Is there any likeness between the
Lan V Plan an(l Gie Russian Five-year Plan?
—W.L., Goulburn (N.S.W.).
No; we haven’t got to the stage of build-
hig up the Communist State yet; we have
oul y got to the stage of attempting to pull
down the “Capitalist State”—that is, the
State which recognises private property.
But precisely the same economic laws apply
to one as to the other, and actually Russia
is doing in its way what The Bulletin
has been for many years insisting that Aus-
tralia must do in its w T ay if it wants to be
saved. In plain words, the whole purpose of
the Five-year Plan is to increase production ;
the programme provides for a 250 per cent,
increase in exports in the five years, with
an increase of only 80 per cent, in the
imports; also a reduction of over 40 per
cent, has to be made in costs of production
—by lower “labor-payments,” if necessary,
but chiefly by harder work and elimination
of “secondary” costs.


e
Leipzig Trade Fair
The Greatest and Most Cosmopolitan of all
Trade Fairs (Twice Yearly).
r
ir wiU n°t experience the slightest difficulty with the Language,
T - , e - s r p j r eight, Duties or Banking. The Organisers of the
effi lrade fair are always on hand to help, courteously and
emeientiy, on all questions pertaining to purchasing and business
negotiation.
TEXTILE, ENGINEERING AND
BUILDING FAIRS COMMENCE AUGUST 30.
Organisation will gladly supply you with names, addresses
and full particulars of reputable German Export Houses.
“Summer in Germany is the Perfection of the Beautiful.”
Inquiries cordially invited and full information given by
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Post Office Place, Melbourne, Victoria.
è
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves - for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO- OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Pell.
Head Office: P. &C. Building, corner EPzabeth-& Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
' N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. .*3
rs——
ABORIGINALITIES
‘ Bogaduck”: The queerest habitation I’ve
struck was commandeered by an out-of-work
bush mason; it was an old stone smoke-
stack, once part of a bush sawmill.
Years of disuse had cleaned it of all traces
of soot, and the present proprietor roofed
the top over with old iron, equipped it with
three floors, and fitted windows into the
HE’D MADE THAT ALL RIGHT.
PARSON (to Jacky, who is drunk again): “You should be ashamed, Jacky! Don't
you ever think of poor Mary?”
JACKY: “Too right, hic-Boss! Gottem two plurry bot-hic-tles for Mary!”
sides. The ground floor is the living-room,
a bedroom, and the top is a store-
'-besfairease being a ladder bolted
Wa L , | ter showing me around the
hi*- complacently, “It was a
t ot tiouble to fat her up, and it took a
lot of getting used to—it was like living
in a telescope at first. And I haven’t got
accustomed to sleeping with me knees doubled
up under me chin. But apart from that
she’s warm, weathertight, and ought to last
me out. All she cost was eleven bob for
three old windows and the door. I picked
up all the rest of the stuff out o’ coclcies’
rubbish dumps.” Out of curiosity I mea-
sured the inside of the “building.” It is
4ft. 3in. by 4ft. 6in. But what it lacks in
floor space it makes up in height, for it is
32ft. from ground to roof.
* * 3 ! #
“Badger”; “Palanda’s” dish-testing method
(B. 20/5/’3l) is all right where tne material
is of a free nature, but if the wash dirt is
sticky or clayey a better plan is to make a
rake of the fingers, lifting the dirt un through
the water right from the bottom and letting
it drop, back through the fingers, at the same
time giving it a vigorous rub between the
hands as it is dropping back. Continue this
until the material is thoroughly disinte-
grated ; then dish motion will remove the
lighter particles by a water force insufficient
to move the metal, if any. “Palanda’s”
advice to the new-chum to take so small a
quantity of wash dirt as a couple of pounds
isn’t sound. Being unused to estimating at
sight from minute quantities the novice is
likely to disregard prospects from so small
a quantity. Also it isn’t advisable for the
novice to make dry rakings off. If he has
sufficient water there is no necessity for it.
* * * '*
“Tiki”; “Katiti’s” remark (B. 3/6/’3l)
that it is peculiar no one suggests an
indigenous population for M.L., though Aus-
tralia and most of the Pacific Islands have
distinctive aboriginal inhabitants, draw's
attention to a large blank space in the his-
tory of the island dominion. That it was
dry land, and habitable, millions of years
ago is proved by the existence of extensive
coal measures, but with the exception of a
few deposits of-moa bones M.L. is remarkably
barren of fossil remains of former life. There’s
nothing to prove that the moa remains are
more than a few hundred years old, and
the most ancient evidence of human habi-
tation—the recently Unearthed Maori oven
on Mount Egmont—cannot date back much
more than 3000 years. The theory held by
some old Maoris that the islands emerged
from the sea in comparatively recent times
as the result of a volcanic upheaval has a
bit of evidence to support it; but it is all
washed out by the kiwi, which is undoubtedly
indigenous, being wingless, and by the tua-
tara lizard, which isn’t much good at long-
distance swimming and is found nowhere
in the world. Possibly there was a
partial subsidence of the land ages ago,
sufficient to render the country unfit for
human habitation but permitting the snr-
vival of the hardier flora and fauna. This
may have been followed by a re-emergence
and the adoption of the land by the more or
less hypothetical Haweas and Rapuwais, and
RUNNING PROOF OF IT.
“How do you know he led a miserable life?”
“They erected a water-fountain to his memory.”
later by the Moriori and the Maori. But
I’ve always been very suspicious about that
white-skinned, red-haired race the Maoris
invoke to explain offspring with pakeha
characteristics.
* * * *
“Gelt”: She was a shrivelled-up old
native woman and carried a pointed stick
to frighten away the crowd of niccaninnies
that followed her about. She
used to enter the village church
with a basket of taro and a few
husked cocoanuts, which she
would carefully place near the
altar as food for her dead
children, and then quietly sit
down and commune with their
spirits. Every morning she
entered the sea and washed her-
self and her ancient loincloth,
as nursing her babies, she 'ex-
plained, made her dirty. It
was,. 30 years since she had
borne c her one child. The vil-
lage. natives humored her. She
was mad,, they told me. Later
she forsook the church and
made her shrine on my front
verandah. 1,-too, humored her,
and gave her a stick of tobacco
on her spasmodic visits, figuring
that the taro and ; cocoanuts
she brought for her children,
and which my house-servants
promptly scoffed, offset the .ex-
penditure. Her visits became
more frequent, and the amount
of her offering smaller, until
one day she informed me that
the stick of tobacco was in-
sufficient remuneration, and
“What, about a bit of rice?”
She niay have been crazy, but
she was no fool.
* * *
“Cygnis”: In the wall of a
farmhouse, near Pingelly
(W.A.), an abo. skull is set
over one of the doorways of
what was originally the store-
room. It was put there by a
long-deceased descendant of
John Henry Monger, a pioneer
of IS3O. The notion was that
the abos., regarding burial-
grounds as sacred, would be scared off if
they came thieving,
* ❖ sj*
“Larrapinta” : When young Ted had been
out of work for three months his family sent
him up to help his uncle Bob, an old bush-
man who is eking out his old-age pension
by prospecting in the Adelaide hills. One
frosty night the lad complained that the
tent was mighty cold. Without looking
up from his newspaper the old chap said,
“Then light the primus and put a brick on
top of it.” Ted lit the little stove, pumped
it up to full blast, went outside, picked up
the nearest stone and placed it on top of
the primus. Soon a nice warmth began to
fill the tent. Then there was a mighty bang;
the lamp was smashed to pieces, three holes
appeared in the tent canvas and hot chips of
stone lay burning holes ill blankets and
clothes. Old Bob, cursing furiously, found
matches and a candle, and the cause of
the trouble lay revealed. When Uncle said
a brick he meant a brick —of whH> there
were plenty outside, taken from a
ruined cottage. But to young '
piece of rock was a “brick,” and
had placed on the primus was a
bluestone, almost as explosive win
hot as a Mills bomb.
# * =js
“Bad Australian”: “Bush ’or
snorted Wakool Joe. “There ain’t no sucn
thing these days. There was a time when
a bloke was safe in strikin’ a strange camp
an’ puttin’ th’ reg’lar question—‘Ennythink
in th’ billy, mate?’ Ninety-nine times outer a
’undred th’ arnswer was: ‘Enny quantity.
There’s th’ tucker-box ’longside yer. ’Elp
y’self.’ Things is diff’rent now. A coupler
rnunce ago I’m pushin’ th’ knot out near
Wantaderrinka, an’ I ’its a road-makin’ camp
an’ taps th’ babbler erbout th’ state o’ th’
billy. I sinks th’ pannikin o’ post-an’-rail,
an’ starts swingin’ th’ cuss o’ Gawd back
in its place, w’en ’e sez, ‘ ’Ere, ’old on a minit.
That’ll cost yer a sprat.’ ‘Didya ever see
a! snake with feathers?’ sez I. Then a big
bloke with a wall eye an’ a naked tart
tattooed on ’is arm comes rushin’ in. ‘Cut
out th’ Jacky Lang,’ ’e roars, ‘an’ ante up, or
I’ll take it outer yer ’ide.’ ‘lf yer fightin’
ain’t no better’n yer ’orspitality,’ sez I, ‘it
looks like I’m on easy money.’ But ’e proves
ter me I wasn’t —th’ cow.”
* * * *
“Oi DibaLasi”: The New Guinea natives
who killed prospector Baum (B. 3/G/’3l)
have been referred to in Australian papers
as “Cooka Cookas,” they having, apparently,
been confused with the Ivuku Kuku of Papua,
a tribe which haunts the forest-covered foot-
hills of Mt. Lawson on the western water-
shed of Papua. It is doubtful whether the
New Guinea people on the other side of the
great range are the same folk, though there
seems little to choose between them from the
point of view of unsociability. The Papuan
contingent gave Frank Pryke and Mat
Crowe, the discoverers of the Lakekamu gold-
field, a rough time, Pryke being badly
wounded in one turn-up. A sturdy, thick-set
people, they are remarkable for wearing a
long raincoat of tappa-cloth fringed with
cuscus tails, an unusual garment among
Papuan natives. Morose and aloof, even gaol,
that famous Papuan civilising agent, has left
them untouched.
IN MULGALAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All city folk, I think, the wide
World o’er, in form and voice and dress,
And fifty other ways beside,
Are cut to pattern, more or less. •
\ou fall in line yourself before
You know. The process none withstand.
Hence, harking back to years of yore,
I hey linger on the . memory more,
The men you met in Mulgaland.
Though diverse were the roles they filled
At best were few conventions there
To check them doing- what they willed
Or stup them being what they were.
Their lines were cast, their stage was set,
With less of codes that bade or banned;
Laws to themselves too oft—and yet
llow oft they left you in their debt,
The men you met in Mulgaland!
I doubt if they would easier rest
With epitaphs above them scrolled
Alleging virtues manifest
And excellences manifold.
No title to the crown they’d claim
That worth and godliness command,
But by their standards, all the same,
by their lights they played the game,
lhe men you met in Mulgaland.
The heart with humanness aglow,
The kindly word, the helping hand,
What strata strange they lay below!
Ah! there were types no cities show,
The men you met in Mulgaland!
N.s.w.
IFORD.


e
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
I for nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon's Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day* double from
7/6, room with breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double, all
less 10 p.c. if staying one week.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Inclusive board from 10/6
daily, or 65/- weekly, both nett.
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyon’s
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Plea.se.
write for revised tariff card.
SAFETY AND PROFIT
SECURITY. There is no safer place in Australia for the
custody of the savings of the people than {he
people’s own Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank
of Australia.
SERVICE. Complete Savings Bank facilities are provided
throughout the whole Commonwealth, through Branches
in the principal towns and 4,000 Post Office Agencies.
INTEREST. Every account maintaining a balance from £1
upwards earns interest at the rate of 4 % per annum.
Commonwealth Savings JBank of Hustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government .)
MONEY-SAVING FAMILY
COUGH MIXTURE RECIPE
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe
for a family cough mixture that is equally
good for children and adults, and is far
better than any made-up cough mixture you
could buy. Order from your chemist, or
store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
Heenzo. Add the Heenzo to sweetened water,
according to the easy directions on the
bottle, and you will have a supply equal to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual
ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost
up to £l. Heenzo does NOT contain any
poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can
be given with perfect safety to the youngest
baby. You will be delighted with the speedy
way H'EENZO soothes sore throats, eases the
chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup,
influenza, bronchitis and whooping cough.
Always have Heenzo ready in the home, for
the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton
of cure,*
“N.G.”: Girls are said to be doing well at
’weight-chasing at Campbell’s Creek (N.S.W.).
Luck sometimes favors their sex very liber-
ally. Mrs. Booth, wife of one of the first men
on the Markham River (N.G.) field, tramped
the 50 miles from Morobe to the region from
which Joe Sloan, Fred Smart, Peter Bourke
and Sharkeyc Bill had sent in samples. In
recognition of her pluck in invading very
tough country the pioneers pegged a claim
for her inside their own boundaries. When
the big company absorbed the little holdings
her block was one of those acquired. She
made a tour of the United States, where she
was hailed as an Australian mining million-
airess. After covering considerable of the
globe she returned to New Guinea and con-
tinued her pursuit of the elusive speck.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The classical example of Aus-
tralian local color of the sort of which “The
Lamb” (B. 20/5/’3l) gave a sample from
a German source occurred in
“Her, Colonial Lover,” a novel of
35 years ago. It opens with the
heroine reclining on a chair on
the broad verandah of Petty’s
Hotel, “overlooking the most
beautiful harbor in the world”
(like the town of Alcala, Petty’s
is nowhere near the sea). Enters
then the hero, a lithe ■■ sunburnt
giant in red shirt and riding-
breeches. He stoops with a swift
movement and slays a deadly ser-
pent which he has whisked from
under the lady’s skirts. Then he
introduces himself, and the
romance is launched. After that
effort the author, feeling no doubt
that he has slapped as much of
Australia on his canvas as can be
expected at the price, steers clear
of the fauna and flora and the
habits and customs of the natives,
contenting himself with mention-
ing that the rescuer was “the owner of a
cattle station away out beyond Parramatta.”
*-* * *
“Bedtime Uncle”: Everyone knows of the
deep, dark river that flows so silently
through the grey woods of Oom. But few
know that if you float down that deep stream
to where the little black duck lays its eggs
on the bank, and crawl through the ferns
till you come to the track that no man
made, and follow that on till the tree
shadows lengthen, you will come to the green
glade of Orum, where dwells in silence the
Wha-Whalioo. You will pass by the old
mad mushroom-mender, but you must not
speak to him. And you will pass by the
bird without a beak, but you must not look
at him. And you must step very lightly
over the man who thinks best on his back,
and go straight to the long,' lean seller of
Wat-nots and Whose-whose. And when he
looks at you you must whisper to him very
quietly: “Why is the knotted rope?” He
will not answer you, because he is
deaf, but he will sell you one Wat-not
and two Whose-whose for one widdershin
and a half. And you take your Wat-not and
two Whose-whose and climb the gnarled tree
to the topmost limb, and cross the strand of
file big spider’s web until you come to the
ledge that leads to the steps that climb up
to the green agate door. And you have only
to knock four times hard on that door to
bring out the Dim One, who will lead you
at once to the Wha-Whahoo’s den. And now
if you take off your shoes and give him your
Wat-not and two Whose-Whose you can ask
him any question you like. You can ask
him whether you will be rich, or whether
you will marry the prince or the princess.
You can asK him if you will be famous, or
how long you will live, or what horse will
win the Hurdle. And he will tell you no-
thing. Absolutely nothing. For the Wlia-
Whahoo, children, is the biggest fool-of-a-
thing that was ever created. He knows no-
thing. He can do nothing. And you will
DIDN’T WANT HIS HELP.
“Boss, I’m dead-sick of the job. Ye tell me to go an’ dig out rabbits, and every time
the little, wretches scramble out by themselves!”
really have wasted your time going to all
that trouble to get to him. It wasn’t worth
it. was it? You would far rather have
.stopped and looked at the bird without a
beak, wouldn’t you? Or have stayed and
asked a lot bf questions of the old mad mush-
room-mender? Of course you would. And
had you done so you would have got such
a smack in the face for being a sticky-
beak that you’d have gone scuttling for home
through the grey woods, howling for your
mamma. Oh,' yes, you would ! And serve
you right, too, for doing what you were dis-
tinctly told not to do. And now, children,
say your prayers and • toddle off to by-by
while Uncle goes home and thinks out an-
other blasted fairy tale for to-morrow night.
* *
“Kingbolt” : “Thoroughbrace” (B. 27/5/’3l)
recalls the coaching days when Kidman, run-
ing out of Wilcannia, was the Cobb and Co.
of that section. I saw some fine driving there
in the early ’eighties. Big Jim Wilkinson,
who made a fortune for John de Baun in
the silver country, was one of the best-known
whips. Another, Johnny Burgess, gave a
rare exhibition of team control when the
bumping of the front wheels in a newly-
formed watercourse threw the kingpin out
of place; the body of the vehicle dropped to
the ground, the five horses racing away with
the forecarriage. Clinging to the reins, Johnny
was dragged over the footboard. He fell on the
rumps of the wheelers, found his feet on the
axle, and, steadying the team with voice and
hand, wheeled it round in a quarter of a
mile, brought it back, recoupled, and resumed
the journey.
sS * * *
“G.S.L.”: My mate and I were travelling
to a job in the south-east of S.A. We meant
to camp out, but dark clouds rolling up from
the west showed that it was going to be a
dirty night, so we drove towards the only
house in sight. The door was opened by
the dourest old Scot I’ve ever seen. The
looks he cast at us showed that we stood a
mighty poor chance of being invited to cross
his doorstep. But my mate was quickwitted.
In a marked Scottish accent he asked for a
night’s shelter. “What might ye be called?”
growled the settler. “Robertson,” replied
my mate promptly and untruthfully. “A
Scots name,” said the other. “Of coorse
it is,” roared my mate. “An’ isna that
a theeng tae be prood o’? Tae the Deevil
wi’ ye an’ yer hospeetality—Ah’d sooner
camp oot in the rain than be beholden
tae a mon wha eensults ma land an’ race!
Come on, Leendsay,” he said to me. “Drive
on.” The old Scot bounded out, caught at
the horses’ bridles and cried, “Daddies,
laddies, dinna be gangin’ off. I wasna’ speak-
in’ deesparagingly—Ali’m a Scot masel’.
Come ben-come ben an’ welcome!” We
■ allowed ourselves to" be persuaded, let him
help unharness and stable the prads, and
that night, while the rain drummed on the
roof and the wind howled over the chimney,
we were treated like kings. But it was a
strain to keep up the dialect, and I’m sorry
to admit that though my name’s Scotch my
ancestors came from the north of Ireland,
while my mate hailed from the south, his
name being Terry O’Neil.
“Mulgo” : “R.D.” (B. 27/5/’3l), referring
to a picture of Lord Haig, mounted, says,
“The charger was stepping forward with his
near-side front and liind-legs at the same
time. No horse will do that.” It is what
every horse does; he couldn’t walk any
other way on four legs. Watch him moving,
and you will see that the front foot
is lifted when the hind foot is almost
touching it, and the hind foot goes down
on the spot that the front foot left, the two
feet on one side, and then the two on the
other side, alternately. Apparently “R.D.'s”
idea is that the moke moves a near-front
foot and an off-hind foot at the one time. If
“R.D.” tries that on his hands and knees
he will see his error.
“Koolonga”: A horse with pacing blood is
not unusual amongst military remounts. The
type of soldier that Haig represented would
always pick a side-gaited charger if possible.
They save the rider’s energy—he doesn’t
have to rise to the trot —and their canter is
smooth and effortless. Offer a drover ont-
back a horse that is by a thoroughbred stal-
lion from a pacing mare and see how quickly
it’s snapped up. You can’t kill them with
work.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: There were two meat-ants’
nests near the camp, a little trickling stream
from a spring dividing the territories. With
malice aforethought we put a board across
the stream, then sprinkled crumbs of meat
from one side to the other. An hour later
a disagreement arose between the foragers
which led to a skirmish. Up to that time
‘hey had been peacefully carrying the meat
home; now they rushed about in great ex-
citement. Ants appear more alike than
peas; yet everyone seemed to easily recog-
nise a stranger. Several ran back to the
citadels to report the disturbance, and
presently fighters swarmed across the bridge.
A furious battle commenced. For hours the
carnage was terrific. Dead and dismembered
soldiers lay. all over the field; but rein-
forcements were continually coming up. The
object of eacli combatant was to decapitate
his opponent or bite his legs off. and cripples
were limping away in all directions. In
the morning w r hen we went to see how the
war was progressing the armies were still
at it. In fact, they fought for four days,
and then the invaders were driven back
across the bridge with tremendous slaughter.
The casualties of the victors were also heavy.
At the termination of hostilities an army of
workers arrived to clear the battlefield of
the dead and finish off the wounded.
THE GOLD-SEEKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On their motor-lorries mounted, forging on
with engines chugging,
Youths are jolting down ; the gullies,
through the jasper-flagged defiles;
Sages fired with hope replenished o’er the
jspinifex are plugging
Where the buckboard and the camel
trekked across the voiceless miles,
Treading pads long since forgotten in the
seasons intervening,
While the granite walls of cities reared
their graven towers on high;
And they speed from patches duft'ered after
years of patient gleaning
On a billowed waste of tailings stretching
barren to the sky. .
Empty hearths grow chill and cold, and the
streets no longer hold >
Those who heed a spirit summons to some
vanished track of old;
And they rush with grim reliance in each
rubber-shod appliance,
Throbbing out its hot defiance, on the long,
lean quest for gold.
On the old fields of our fathers, long defunct
in outer distance.
Wounds thrice healed, again . reopened,
shed a pall of noxious dust,
And the pick-and-shovel surgeons meet fami-
liar resistance
In the caving holes, that yield them little
better than a crust.
Out beyond the lonely outposts of the claims
by youth forsaken,
Where the shade is scant and rarely strays
the wealth of herd or flock,
Tetrol engines throb, 'while, echoes through
the mulga -leaves awaken f
From the red cascades of gravel and the
fall of rended rock.
After every shower of ; rain on the , ashen
saltbush plain,
On the low quartz-studded ridges they are
fossicking again :
Stout of heart and tough as leather, battlers
scarred and youths together,
Sharing each through wind and weather
ounce and pennyweight and grain.
There is golden treasure waiting for the
’venturer to claim it
Off some route but rarely trodden in the
wildeimess unknown.
Yet uncharted is that centre which awaits
a soul to name it
Ere the multitude is gathered to its bosom
overblown.
Still the purpose of the seeker recks not of
the sun’s derision
When the mirage on the skyline mocks or
beckons him to haste
Where another El Dorado may reward his
dauntless vision;
And the pride of roof and steeple loom
resplendent from the waste.
“VAT A PITY TO DISTURB ’EM!”
Toil’s sweet clamor shall restore wealth of
seasons gone before,
When from out the lode’s rich channel flows
the life-stream of the ore,
While with harnessed might abounding,
murmured doubts and fears con-
founding,
In triumphant volume sounding he may
hear the mill-shoes pounding,
And behold the ’planes of commerce swoop
and soar.
__ ' /I
N.S.W.
GERARDY.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
.. ESTABLISHED 1834.
_ A „ irr , t , AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
PAID UP : £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND ........ 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
. .... GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
federal territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts or
the world.
Ml Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
ROYAL ALEXANDRA HOSPITAL FOR CHILDREN.
CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL No. 3 ART UNION
DRAWN JULY 29, 1931
EVERY TICKET TAKEN HELPS THE SICK LITTLE ONES.
Tickets 1/2 post
free. Books of
six or twelve on
application. Send
now!
Remember there
is no to-morrow
in the cry of a
sick child.
ft
Bring some sun-
shine into the lives
of the sick kiddies.
They need your
help.
Winter is here, and
finance is urgently
needed to fight
pneumonia and
bronchitis.
By permission of the Hon. Attorney-General.
OVER 50 YEARS’ SERVICE BEHIND THIS INSTITUTION
TOTAL VALUE OF PRIZES, £BOO.
Apply Organiser, Box 4200 XX, G.P.0., Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
VALID EXCUSE.
“lie admitted falling madly in love with Mrs.
Price, but said he did not know she was married.”
— Divorce-court report-
His love for her had not been blessed.
By any church; ’twas riceless.
Yet can one say he had trangressed?
He thought the lady Price-less.
H. M.
* y.
N.S.W. is in the doledrums.
* *
“The disturbance began when the wife refused to
give her husband any more beer, but offered him a
bottle of lemonade.”
These soft answers rarely turn away
wrath.
“In the old days, when you wanted to know the
time, von asked a policeman. Nowadays you should
try Judge Curlewis.”— “Sun.”
Many get it from him without even trying.
¥ ¥
the gagged classicist.
“The Hon. ,1. W. Macarthur Onslow and the Hon.
P. M. McGiir, though on opposite sides in the
N.S.YV. Legislative Council, are both classicists.’Their
Latin quotations are listened to with respect by other
members. The other night Mr. Onslow referred slyiy
to his hon. friend as ‘Thersites,’ and Mr. McGirr,
understanding- the dig, retaliated in appropriate
1 anguage. ”-— Sydncy Gossip-hound.
Hon. A. McToodle: “As regards the bill
now before this honorable ’Ouse, Mr. Speaker,
I give yer my word”——
Hon. J. Wallop-Coote: “ ‘Timeo Danaos’ ”
Hon. P. O’Bung: “ ‘et dona ferentes.’ ”
Hon. A. McToodle: “that it’ll bring room
on tin* State. I’m agin it, an' always 'ave
bin. It's madness, that’s what it is. Abser-
loot b y madness.”
Hon. P. O'Bung: “‘Quem .Tupiter vult
perdere’ ”
ANOTHER THING THAT MIGHT
HAVE BEEN PUT DIFFERENTLY.
HOSTESS (to guest who has been coaxed to
sing) : “After that, Mr. Howler, yon
need never tell me again that you
can’t sing.”
Hon. J. Wallop-C oote: “ ‘dementat prius.’ ”
Hon. ,1. McToodle: “Me British blood fair
boils, Mr. Speaker, when I see the injuries
them dingoes on the other side of this honor-
able ’Ouse are inflicting ou tin* grand old
Mother State”
Hon. J. Wallop-C oote: “ ‘Longa est in-
juria’ ” ——
Hon. P. O'Bung: “ ‘longue ambages.’”
Hon. A. McToodle: “Never in my life ’ave
I bin so scandalised, so disgusted, so sick-
ened”—
lion. P. O’Bung: “ ‘lndc irse’”
Hon. J. Wallop-C oote: “‘et lacrimse.’”
lion. A. McToodle: “as what I ’ave
Imi by the present Government’s political
crimes
Hon P. O’Bung: “Culpam poena premit
comes.
Hon, J. Wallop-C oote: “ ”
-nr” 0 "" A ' McToodle: “ an ’ I’d just like ter
Hon. P. O’Bung: “ ‘Scio : tu coactus tua
voluntate es.’ ”
Hon. J. Wallop-Coote: “ ”
Hon. A. McToadle: “this”
Hon. J. Wallop-Coote (with emotion) :
“Mr. President!. ... Rise to point of order.
.... Dastardly outrage. ... Hired minion of
scoundrel O’Bung opposite.... Sat near me
a moment ag0.... Pinched my ‘Dictionary
of Classical Quotations’ when I wasn’t look-
ing .... Deliberate plot to gag me”
Hon. P. O’Bung and supporters: “Yah!
Squeaker!” “Satis eloquentise, sapienthe
parvum!” “Take yer medicine like an
Aussie!” “E pluribus unum !”
General disorder.
(House adjourned till 4.45 p.m. on Friday.)
10-2-4.
* *
DOLE-FUL LAY.
“Give us this day our daily bread"
The prayer used to g 0;
But now the worldess pray instead:
“Send us our daily ‘dough’.”
o. w. w.
* *
In politics Lang is obviously a spend force.
India is rattling the sahib.
* *
Why, in this land of the free, do we rely
so much on the bond?
* ¥
“Many women marry men to reform them; but
that usually proves a mistake.” — “Woman’s Mirror.”
As the old song goes:—
Do not trust him, gentle lady
Though his rices seem complete.
¥ ¥
SYDNEY’S PLACE-NAMES.
“Woollahra took its name from Woollahra House
.... but that name may have been inspired by a
sense of aptness at a time when the importance of
the wool industry was beginning to be appreciated.”
— “Sun.”
A few more :
In Bligh’s day travelling was chiefly by
coach. Roads were rough,, and passengers
used to pad themselves fox- long
journeys. A remark in a “S.
M. Herald” leader that a ton
of padding was required for the
George-stx-eet-Centennial Park
trip led inevitably to the name
“Paddington.”
Under the Macquarie regime,
Bondi Beach was a far-off
holiday resort. People used to
linger there, unwilling as now
to leave its manifold delights.
With “Remember Bundy” they
were reminded of the necessity
for being on time at their work
next day. Corrupted to fit an
abo. word meaning “big pfeller
drain,” the name has stuck, and
now covers a whole district.
Waverley owes its appella-
tion to an early settler who
established a pig farm on the
present site of the Council
Chambers. He naturally built
a pen to house his porcine
friends. Later, certain fasti-
dious inhabitants objected to
■‘Pig-pen” ns an address. A cultured mayor
of tlie period remembered the slogan, “The
Pickwick, the Owl and the Waverley Pen.”
and the name was ready-made, so to speak.
The first maker of automatic cash-regis-
ters in Australia established his factory in
an outer suburb and advertised his goods as
“incorruptible tills.” Hence St. Peter’s.
An Irish poet invented Ivogarah (origin-
ally “Kegorrah.” reminiscent of the beer he
drank there), because he wanted something
to rhyme with “Begorra.”
Neutral, Bay is so called because it is
half-way between Billy Hughes and the
strongest Nationalist centre round Sydney.
H'. M.
* ¥
Australian stocks are now known as jilt-
edged securities.
* *
SCIENTIFIC ERROR UNMASKED.
“Experiments made by a sleep-investigation com-
mittee at the Mellon Institute (University of Pitts-
burgh, U.S.A.), extending over five years, show that
no person yet examined can sleep in a stiff attitude,
nor even retain any one attitude for longer than a
quarter of an hour.”—' “Sunday Guardian
The Parliamentary Lemon Institute, Mac-
quarie-street, gives this the lie. Some of the
sleepers on the Institute’s upholstered
benches have been under observation for
years. Experiments carried out with Savings
Bank crashes, smashing markets, collapsing-
credits and thumping deficits have all had
similar results. The snoring has steadily
increased.
McM.
“‘A man has to work hard for the threepence
nowadays,’ said witness.”
On the other hand, the zack can be got
with no effort at all.
* *
HOEING BARRED.
“With a merry ‘Ho!’ the youngsters acknowledged
the cabbages and cauliflowers, catching them deftly.
But they shook their heads, laughingly, when offered
potatoes.”— “Sun.”
With grateful cries they filled the ground —
Gay “ Hos!” and “Thank you, mate-ohs!”
But it was very quickly found
They would not “Ho!” potatoes.
¥ *
“Ambrose Pratt writes of ‘Magical Malaya’ with
‘honeyed words.’ ” — Tas. paper.
Ambrosial prattle, in fact.
REALISM IN ART.
“As you see, Uncle, the country is looking
very well at present.”
“Yes, yes. Those spots, I suppose, now,
represent mortgages—or are they cows?”
“As a British officer it made my blood boil to see
the red flag being flown over the train ; but what was
I to do?”— Sydney paper.
It’s obvious —call out the guard.
“The conference decision involves increases in taxa-
tion and decreases in rates of interest paid to bond-
holders.”
In short, a blend of milk and bilk.
* *
THE ADVENTURER.
I’ve slain he-men down Texas way, fierce
bandits in Nebraska, dope buccaneers in
’Frisco Bay and Injuns in Alaska. Rough-
necks and two-gun men who’d kill (though
not bad chaps at bottom) at any loose word
you might spill—l’ve met ’em, and I’ve shot
’em!
I’ve taken big game in my stride, rogue
elephants and tigers—the beasts you meet
on every side exploring Niles and Nigers;
and leaping deer of such wild grace, it
seemed a shame to pot ’em —they did no
harm about the place, but, still, I up and
shot ’em.
And yet I am no fearful man with
weapons hung about me. I’m rather mild :
my Mary Ann has no just cause to doubt
me. Reproaches for my bloody work come
from the film director alone—coarse words
he doesn’t burke, and he’s inclined to hector.
For after all my conduct’s not entitled to
your strictures ; my shooting’s done upon a
lot—it’s only for the pictures!
11. M.
Bondholders have discovered that “con-
tract” is a double entendre. The meaning
depends on where you put the emphasis.
* *
ENCOURAGEMENT.
The early-morning home-comer had tried
the best one he could think of on his wife.
“Do you expect me to believe that?” she
inquired icily. “Like all your stories it
would insult the intelligence of a half-wit.”
Suddenly a glad light illumined the sinner’s
face. “I believe* you’re right,” he said. “Pack
your bags and we’ll leave for Hollywood
to-morrow. Our future’s made!”
“A motion that the Melbourne slaughtermen’s
strike should be extended to the butchers’ shop-
assistants was rejected.”— “Argus.”
No wonder. The assistants felt their jobs
were at steak.
* *
“The inflation policy is as dishonest as the repu-
diation of Mr. Lang.” — “Argus.”
But is it dishonest to repudiate Mr. Lang?
EXPERT HELP-
“Unemployed men at the Broadmeadoiks camp are
forming garden plots. Skilled carpenters are giving
assistance.”-— “Argus.”
This, however, is not the only form of
activity which is going on. Already plans *
for a pony-racing course have been drawn
up by unemployed ecclesiastics, and the
camp Rechabites are hard at work on the
free bar. The building of the new huts is in
the hands of the unemployed breadcarters.
musicians and pig-slaughtermen, while the
cooking is carried on by haberdashers,
assisted by a squad of dogmen and a rat-
catcher. The men do their own washing,
except, of course, those previously employed
in laundries, who are mending shoes and
acting as barbers. But perhaps the most
interesting work of all is being done in the
camp chapel, where out-of-work politicians
are giving a series of addresses on the
beauties of thrift and the evils of skiting,
lying and dishonesty.
Piecrust.
# *
“In four years private spending has been curtailed
by 26 per cent Government expenditure has
decreased by only 7 per cent. We are not getting
the results of our labors.” — A.F.A. speaker.
Treasurers grab our cash with glee,
And though we groan decline to heed us;
Ah, think how rich we’d be if we
Could bleed ourselves as others bleed us!
P.
* ¥
“An admirer sent three cases of ale to Mr.
Lyons’s room.”— “S. M. Herald.”
“Beered the Lyons in his den,” as the
saying goes.
* *
CRAZY COMMUNICATIONS.
Income Tax Commissioner.
Sir. —Up to the present I have not re-
ceived my assessment, and I fear it may
have gone astray in the post. Please let
me have a duplicate at your earliest. —
Yours, A. Suburbia.
P. Bysshe Gladesville, Utopia.
Dear Mr. Gladesville,-—Herewith cheque
for the last, seven poems submitted by you.
all of which we find eminently suitable for
publication. Awaiting the favor of your
further valued offerings.—Yours, B. Pencil,
Editor, “Monthly Miracle.”
To the Railway Commissioner.
Dear Sir, —At a meeting of my Associa-
tion held on Tuesday last, it was decided
unanimously to withdraw competition from
all parts of the State which arc served by
railways. Henceforth our members will
ply only in the scattered parts which are
not fortunate enough to be blessed with your
excellent service.—Yours, A. Honk, Secre-
tary, Motor Carriers’ Association.
Australian Politician.
Respected Sir, —At a largely-attended
meeting of citizens a resolution placing on
record our appreciation of the yeoman service
rendered by yourself and colleagues was car-
ried. Representatives of the wheat farmers
of Australia were particularly enthusiastic.
With such men at the helm, we feel we can
face the future with confidence.—Yours, J.
Taxpayer.
J. P.
* *
“It is the fashion to say that this is the age of
young men.” — “Argus.”
Yet few have the nerve to say what is
the age of young women.
* *
“Cases in which victims of slasher gangs refuse to
give evidence as to their assailants are becoming-
far too common.” — “Argus.”
The idea being that bled men tell no tales.
REALLY WHAT HE WAS THERE FOR.
“No, sir, I won’t have my daughter tied
down for life to a stupid fool.”
“Exactly, sir—then give me the chance to
take her off your hands.”
England and Australia are at last on the
Beam ends.
* *
MIND OVER MATTER.
“Don't you dare to question my authority !”
she thundered.
“Tut, tut, nr dear, don’t lift your voice.”
“I’ll lift my voice and you, too, if you’re
not back in this house by eleven to-night.”
The little professor grabbed his hat and
MSS. and dived for the door. Outside he
made a resolute effort to regain his poise,
for he was due within half an hour to
deliver his famous lecture on “Man, The
Master of the Universe.”
McMug.


This new Steel Shaft Club
*; ' • ■ • ■ . , ' ' v ■ , / ... ■ ; . - , . ' - • ' .- . . . ,■ ■ , / . " jV-s-w
... is built to improve
your game
i '
111
«
' ' ' v V > ••' •- • . '
' 'i, V» <" - i / '
I f'lii I® •
•• ' 4 s, *i '>. .. *•» „ ' : 'i
i '* <
' ~ , t '« 'j
r_.r.s
lililllllt
.V
:
| '
v ' ' «u' i
' ' '/• \ •■••• "V
K , ,i •
•"''<?* . . - *■ .. |. >U:- x ' '
' V» ' * - -5 --••-,-■••• * ' *i?u - • ! <V ! ’S ' : • ' •<■<■
' ' V'A-: ¥ ,1 *
.. * / /< '
■’ * < v “| ■• % o
itil
*
ill
< ;
warn ® - .
■ rSfl ;>■■•—■; >*i'-V. v;
r
’wjSgSfe x-y.-
vTafe
Is
H
r* o .>;* **>
' v ■
: \
if
;•■. w » v r s :• " <!
:• I 3 - .A< ' '' ' A , •••.... v* x
r'
Scaled in a rubber sleeve, with rivetless
construction and no metallic contact, this
Spalding Patented Cushion Neck, gives
the Steel Shaft Club a new. sweet feel.
For perfect accuracy, better bal-
ance, greater distance, less -wind,
resistance and easier swinging—use
the new Spalding Steel Shaft Club.
J-Jere’s a club that’s sweeter than the
sweetest hickory. A club that gives
you better distance . . . better control!
When you swing this new Spalding Steel
Shaft Club you’ll get a new thrill out of
golf! Perfect balance .. . absolute control
. . . how it cuts the air. It’s the scientific
balance that throws the weight into the
head . . . the slimness of powerful steel
that does it! When you drive you’ll feel
the wonderful difference the Spalding
Patented Cushion Neck makes . . . how it
eliminates all vibration and shock . . . seals
into the club the sweet feel of constant
torsion, giving you better distance and
accuracy. Try this new kind of club and
you’ll understand why it improves your
game!
Improve Your Game at Once!
Spalding Registered Irons —Chromium-
plated steel shafts and Cushion Necks,
£ 10/10/- a set of 5, or Indexed Kro-Flite
Cushion Neck Irons —Chromium-plated
shafts —£8/15/- a set of 5, Single Clubs
35/-, Symmetric Irons —a set of 5,
£6/5/-. Single Clubs 25/-.
A wide choice of woods —Registered
Clubs, 63/-; Kro-Flite Custom Made
Woods with Cushion Neck, 47/6; Sym-
metric Woods, 35/-; or Dormie Woods,
25/- each. Spalding Golf Equipment
from all Golf Professionals and Sports
Stores.
r
For better golf play a
"Kro-Flite” or "Par” Ball.
GUARANTEE
All Spalding Steel Shaft Clubs priced from
25/- up are guaranteed against any
structural defects in ordinary play for
twelve months from date of purchase.


INVEST IN THE LAND
Wool-growing must continue to be the main Australian
Industry for many years.
Queensland offers good opportunities to acquire comparatively
cheap sheep country, and costs of production in that State
are steadily coming down.
We can offer properties with good tenure and carrying
capacities varying from 3000 up to 50,000 Sheep.
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES AND
MORTGAGE COMPANY LIMITED
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville.
\
Now YOU Can
Pay by CHEQUE
Everyone realises the advantages of
paying by cheque—many have not had
the opportunity of using such a banking
account. You can do so now with a
deposit this week. Earn interest—save
money.
HAVE A BANK ACCOUNT
—KEEP IT GROWING.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS
BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
QUICK FREEZING.
There have been several references in The
Bulletin to the quick freezing of meat,
fish and fruit, aud to its possibilities in
Australia, particularly in relation to our
export trade. Dr. Vickery, a Melbourne
University graduate and Exhibition Scholar,
who was for four years at, the Dow Tempera-
ture Research Station established by the
British Food Investigation Board at Cam-
bridge, has been studying the new method
at first hand in 'the U.S.A., and has pre-
pared a very interesting report for the
“Journal” of the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research.
In view of the increased interest being
taken throughout the Commonwealth in the
production of fat lambs, it is rather grati-
fying to learn that in the U.S.A. all the
usual cuts from carcases of lamb are being
quick-frozen and retailed in attractive
packages. In the case of beef and
pork, only choice cuts are being used —
porterhouse, rump and sirloin steaks;
rib-roasts of beef; cuttings minced into
Hamburger steaks; pork loins and pork
chops; together with a limited number of
sheep’s and hogs’ kidneys, calves’ livers and
lambs’ sweetbreads. The excess fat and
bone are removed and the meat is pressed into
a shape that will fit neatly into the standard-
sized cartons. These have been impregnated
with paraffin wax, and lined with loose, non-
porous cellophane. Cellophane is then neatly
folded over the meat, and the cartons pass
to a wrapping machine, which places and
seals a transparent, waxed-paper wrap on
the cartons.
For the quick freezing of meat the Birds-
eye and Zarotschenzeff processes have been
adopted—there- are several other methods of
quick-freezing fish. In the Birdseye pro-
cess, the cartons of meat are inserted
between two slowly-moving belts of _ Monel
metal, on which calcium chloride brine, at
a temperature of —45 deg. F. is sprayed-
Indirect contact is therefore secured on both
faces of the packages. To eliminate air
pockets inside the packages, which naturally
would increase the time of freezing, a uni-
form pressure is exerted on the belts by
means of adjustable rollers. In the Zarot-
schenzeff process, the cartons, wrapped simi-
larly to those in the Birdseye method, are
placed on galvanised-iron racks in a chamber
fitted with numerous nozzles, through which
is forced a fine rain of concentrated solution
of sodium chloride at a temperature of
sdeg. F. The quick-frozen cartons are
transported by rail in the ordinary insulated
cars refrigerated by a mixture of ice and
salt in end bunkers, and are sold for the
most part in chain stores, being in
glass-fronted refrigerated showcases. Cost
of packing, freezing and handling each
pound of meat until completion of freezing
varies from 2 to cents, cost of freezing
being about i cent per pound.
Dr. Vickery suggests the sending of experi-
mental shipments to Britain, selecting the
process which freezes the most rapidly and
vessels equipped with ammonia or multiple-
effect carbon-dioxide compressors, which can
maintain the requisite temperatures. “As a
means for the profitable disposal of the
undamaged portions of badly-bruised car-
cases, which are usually prohibited from
being exported, quick _ freezing,” lie writes,
“has distinct possibilities. Since edible offal,
such as kidneys, livers, etc., usually undergoes
considerable alteration in texture during the
slow freezing at present practised, introduc-
tion of quick freezing in this field would
seem to offer very distinct possibilities for
an improved product. The method may
also add to the list of edible offal now
exported from Australia. For instance, there
is said to be a considerable demand in
Europe for sheep’s brains. It has been
proved that there is no appreciable differ-
ence between the quality of quick-frozen and
of fresh brains.”
Quick freezing has also been applied in
the U.S.A. to berry and stone fruits, fruit
juices and vegetables. At Montezuma,
Oregon, sliced peaches are frozen in pack-
ages (lib. and 21b.) in a machine equipped
with belts passing over brine tanks, indirect
contact with the brine on one side of the
package only being secured. At Hillsboro’,
Oregon, cherries, strawberries, raspberries,
loganberries, peaches, peas, spinach and
asparagus are being treated by the Birdseye
process on a commercial scale, while experi-
ments are being made with French beans,
tomatoes, blueberries and sliced apples. Con-
siderable success has been attained with
the production of quick-frozen fruit-juices,
such as orange and grapefruit. The juice
is first filtered to remove all fibrous material,
frozen in large blocks, and later cut into
smaller blocks suitable for packing. In this
field also Australia may profit by the adop-
tion of quick freezing.
DEALING WITH’ COUCH GRASS.
“ Johnuo” : In parts of Queensland when
farmers want to bring under cultivation again
a paddock surrendered to couch grass, they
burn it off in winter, after frosts have
withered the grass —if it has not been grazed
bare —and plough to a moderate depth when
the soil is in a fairly dry state. The ground
is then immediately harrowed, and every
particle of grass, including the tiniest-
jointed root, is picked up and stacked on
heaps and burnt. The land is then cross-
ploughed, and harrowed again and again
until all roots have been brought to the .sur-
face ; these are carefully gathered, freed from
the earth adhering to them by shaking,
stacked on heaps and burnt as before. This
process is repeated a number of times, care
being taken to pick up and destroy all the
roots brought to the surface.
The ground is then allowed to lie until it
shows green again—two weeks to a month,
according to weather —when it is ploughed
and harrowed once more, every vestige of
grass brought to the surface being carefully
gathered and destroyed as previously.
Weather being suitable, the land is planted
with, say, maize or sugar-cane. Hoe and
scarifier are put into action directly the crop
shows above ground, and kept going until
it is able to take care of itself. But
if the season is more than ordinarily wet
the chances are that the couch grass will
beat the crop, despite all that has been done.
GRASS RICHEST IN SPRING.
“Chemical”: I cannot follow “Chemico” (B.
20/5/’3l). Grass grows as shoots from
the crown, and this growth occurs annually
as soon as the soil commences to get warm —
that is, in early spring, following the dor-
mant season, winter. As is the case with all
crops of similar class, the grass reaches
maturity, produces seed for reproduction,
and then, if an annual dies; if it is a
perennial the dying applies to the growth
above ground only, as root and crown rest
for the winter period prior to producing
further growth the following spring. Spring
will give the early rich growth, which in
turn grows to maturity in the summer, to
become dry and rank in the autumn.
Therefore spring grass is always richer in
nitrogen (protein) and phosphoric acid than
the mature grass of summer and autumn. By
the same token an immature oat crop—say,
half-grown—will show a much higher per-
centage of nitrogen and phosphoric acid than
the same crop when mature and ready for
the stripper, irrespective of the rainfall —
that is within the limits of ordinary farm
practice. It is a matter of concentration.
I say definitely that pasture when immature
will show a higher content of nitrogen and
phosphoric acid than pasture as a roughage
at maturity, no matter whether the season be
dry or wet.
“Chemico” asks for a method by which the
pasture may be .kept at its high spring
standard. The answer is obvious. Heavy
stocking of manured pasture on the rota-
tional grazing system, with irrigation if
possible. Then the beasts will always be on
the short bite or rich grass.
SWEDES AS SHEEP FEED.
“Azac”: Success in the growing of a root
crop like swedes for sheep (B. 3/6/’3l)
depends upon a plentiful supply of moisture
in the soil. Even a short dry spell is fatal.
If the seed is drilled in, lOoz. per acre will
be found to be sufficient. Mix super, (about
fcwt. per acre) with the seed, but only
immediately prior to sowing, otherwise the
germination capacity is likely to be affected.
Purple Top variety does best on the
Monaro, and a good crop will yield up to
20 tons per acre. Some growers sow thicker
than suggested, and if the season turns out
good and the stand is too thick they harrow
it to thin it out. Many harvest the best of
the roots and dispose of them locally as
vegetables, allowing the sheep to graze the
remainder. Some care has to be exercised in
the grazing of swedes, otherwise losses due
to bloat will be experienced. A good prac-
tice is to allow the sheep into the swede
paddock for about 20 minutes every day.
They only eat off the tops at first, but soon
learn to eat right down into the root, leav-
ing merely a shell in the ground. Some
farmers go to the trouble of ploughing out
these shells, which they subsequently hand-
feed to their stock. Others are satisfied to
turn them under, and so enrich the ground
in humus.
If the swedes are harvested and hand-
fed, they must be chopped up, particularly
if being fed to cattle, otherwise there is great
danger of choking the stock. A small hand-
cutter is on the market at present for about
£5.
WOOL. STABILISATION.
“Woolaway": Admitting the facts stated
by “A. for A.” (B. 27/5/’3l), wool is not the
only product affected by irregularity ol
value. No person with a knowledge of the
trade will claim that we have reached per-
fection in our methods of marketing. There
is still room for improvement in many ways.
But during an experience of more than 4(1
years I can say that progress has been
steady and well maintained.
Booms and slumps in wool were known
long before the war or before Bawra came
on the scene. Until an alteration in world
methods of trading, manufacturing and dis-
tribution takes place they will probably
recur. Personally, I believe that stabilisa-
tion is possible, but before it can be achieved
a certain set of conditions of world-wide
extent must prevail. At present they don’t.
A point that is missed, or ignored, by those
who think it should be easy to arrange a
price at which wool should be sold is that
such a deal can only be made when one
buyer agrees to take the whole output. That
was done by the British Government during
the war; but even then growls were heard
from the growers’ side of the fence.
HOME-MADE SOIL INSECTICIDE.
“D. Press”: The next great discovery in
agriculture is tipped to be a chemical com-
pound by means of which the farmer will be
able to combat insect pests and fungus
disease by simply applying it to the soil
prior to sowing the crop. Meantime a good
soil insecticide and fungicide can be manu-
factured on the farm. One commonly used
by market-gardeners consists of three parts of
lime to one part tobacco dust, but the fol-
lowing formula provides a mixture considered
to have a. wider scope as a successful soil
dressing.
The amounts given make about 23cwt. of
the insecticide. For a smaller amount —say,
2|cwt. —all that is necessary is to divide
the various amounts by 10; —
Aust. chalk or slaked lime .. • • 20cwt.
Gas tar .. .. 20 gallons
Crude naphthaline . . .. • • lcwt.
Flowers of sulphur . . . . • • 101 b.
Sulphate of iron .. .. . • 101 b.
Smutol or basic copper carbonate . . lib.
Kerosene .. • • • • . . 1 gallon
Sprinkle sulphur, sulphate of iron and
smutol on the chalk or slaked lime, which lias
been spread out in a layer six inches deep
on the floor of the barn, and then throw into
a heap with a centre dip as though you
were going to make mortar. Heat, a drum
containing two gallons of tar carefully at a
low heat, to make the tar nice and fluid.
Remove from the fire and add 111 b. naphtha-
line and stir with a wooden stick until dis-
solved. Add the kerosene and pour on to
the chalk heap. Rake and shovel well to
mix. Repeat until all the tar and naphthaline
are used up. Finally mix well by alternately
throwing into a heap and re-raking into a
shallow layer at least four times. Allow
the heap to mature for a week before using.
Strength decreases if stored in bags or
bulk for any length of time, so the mixture
should be made in the autumn for use during
the winter, and possibly early spring. Use at
the rate of lcwt. per acre spread broadcast.
Material cost is round about £6 per ton.
Where chalk is unavailable gas lime may be
used. Personally, I add 10 per cent, of super,
to the mixture as a tonic. An ounce or two
of the stuff in small tobacco-tins placed in
the wardrobe-drawers will please Mum by
keeping moths and silver-fish away.
LARGE WHITES FOR BACON,
“J.W.W.”: “Wooriner” (B. 20/5/’3l)
says Large White pigs do not scald on his
place (northern Vic.). I take it that he
has plenty of cool shade or water for his
pigs to wallow in, or both. I had pigs (also in
northern Vic.) which scalded rather badly till
I supplied the necessary waterliole, when they
soon recovered. Scalded pigs are often in evi-
dence at the summer pig sales at Kerang and
Swan Hill, but inquiries by the writer have
always elicited the fact that these have been
from Mallee farms where water to wallow
in was not available.. I find the Large White
a first-class baconer, especially for the heavy
weights, but not so good for pork as the
earlier-maturing Small White or Middle
White. An advantage with the Whites is
the small amount of offal in proportion to
the dressed weight; they clean up nicely, being
very pleasing to the eye. And appearances
help sales more than is realised.
THE HANDYMAN ON THE FARM.
“Booraby” : A man who has learnt to be
handy has a great advantage over others on
the farm. I have in mind a Richmond River
selector named Flynn, who built his house
and furnished it without buying anything
but a few nails. It was good furniture, too :
and though most of the timber was split in
scrub and forest, when adzed and planed it
was unrecognisable from sawn wood. Flynn s
bedstead was made of wood and fencing
wire, the wire being crossed and interlaced,
making a good substitute for a spring mat-
tress. H'is water-cask was a section of a
hollow log, with a wooden bottom pegged in.
H‘is spouting was made with hardwood
boards, nailed together V-shape. The
bottom hinges of his gates were blocks; the
top hinges pieces of slab nailed on top of
the posts, with a hole at one end for the
gate-head. There were other wooden con-
trivances, including troughs, tubs, forks and
spoons; but his masterpiece was a big wash-
basin, neatly cut out of a block of tallow-
wood.
Flynn never bought anything that he could
make, which included maize meal and arrow-
root. He repaired his own harness and farm
implements and half-soled and heeled the
family boots. These jobs most backblockers
do for themseives. Isolation has made them
learn, and once they have got the knack of
doing things they usually take a pleasure in
doing them.
The aim of every farmer in particular
should be to make his boys handy. Self-help
in teen-hood makes capable men, and handi-
ness goes a long way towards success in any
venture on the land. The handyman, while
contriving for himself, sees the quickest and
most efficient way of doing things. It is
practical economy.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to control lucerne flea in S.A.? —
3601.
The' crop should be cut or fed down
closely, and the, land sprayed with a solu-
tion made up of Igal. lime-sulphur solution
to 50gal. of water.
I wish to plant within the next month or
so a crop to he used as fodder for dairy stock.
When that crop is finished I will plant sugar-
cane. Please recommend crop which will
improve the land and he suitable to this
locality (Wide Bay, near Maryborough, Q.)
—3526.
Although rather late in the season, you
might put in a mixed crop of Florence wheat
and Grey Field peas, using 1 bushel of wheat
and i bushel peas per acre.
What is the legal difference between a
homestead farm and a homestead selection
in N.S.W. ? —3730.
The homestead selection tenure was created
by the 1895 Land Act, and the homestead
farm tenure was provided for by the Act of
1912. Both are perpetual leases and may
be converted into conditional purchase and
thence into freehold. The outstanding differ-
ence is that although a homestead selection is
a perpetual lease it is, except as against the
Crown, deemed to be a purchase of the land.
In both cases, after the expiration of five
years from the date of confirmation, or after
the conditions have been fulfilled, a perpetual
lease grant is issued, subject to the pay-
ment of annual rent at the rate of 21 per
cent, of the capital value, which is re-
appraised every 25 years in the case of a
homestead selection, and every 20 years after
tho first period of 25 years in the case of a
homestead farm. During the first five years
of a homestead farm lease the holder may,
in lieu of paying rent, expend each year a
sum not less than the rent on substantial
improvements. There is no such provision in
respect of a homestead selection, but during
the first five years of that tenure annual rent
at the rate of 1J per cent, of the capital
value is charged, instead of the 21 per cent,
payable after the perpetual lease grant has
issued.
Is anything being done to exploit the
lime resources of the Great Barrier Reef
for agricultural purposes? If so, by whom?
—3627.
Not so far as we know. There is no need
to exploit them, as there are a number of
pure limestone deposits on the mainland,
some near railway sidings, which will no
doubt be worked as soon as a regular suffi-
cient demand arises.
'Name of a reliable guide to Australian
trees and shrubs? —3738.
J. 11. Maiden’s “Forest Flora of N.5.W.,”
in seven vols., is the most comprehensive, many
of the plants dealt with being natives of
Vic. or Q’land. “Australian Plants Suitable
for Gardens, Parks, Timber Reserves, etc.,’’
by W. R. Guilfoyle, is a useful work for
reference. Maiden’s “Critical Revision of the
Genus Eucalyptus” deals with an important
group of Australian trees and shrubs.
What varieties of strawberries grow best
in Queensland? Is it advisable to stick
to standard varieties or to try locally-raised
seedlings? —3933.
Aurie and Phenomenal; and best results
have been got from locally-raised seedlings.
Of the well-known standard varieties, such as
Marguerite. Trollop’s Victoria, British
Queen, Pink’s Prolific, Federation and Melba,
(Continued on page 26.)


BBjjgjßM
1
HR: ■ *
mam
mmm
* $ | If X** * ;
:©S:SS:
The New Ford Town Sedan
FORD CARS
TRUCKS AND
TRACTORS ARE
BRITISH EMPIRE
PRODUCTS
ë
r
Ford Works, Sales Tax extra . ♦ . Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.


>V.'
m
1
11!
■
THE SPECIAL ABBEY
RIDING BOOT
Light in weight and extra supple,
with stout elastic insets at ankle and
a complete inner lining of soft
leather. This boot has an upper
curved to fit over the instep arch in
the most natural and comfortable
way. Its sole is of the toughest
leather available
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF.. 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF. . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 23S
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders;. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
r
Native boys climb
the tallest palms.
Only
4i days
to
Summer
TD Y fast Matson Liner you
sail out of Australia’s
winter into Fiji’s summer —
in just A \ days.
Her warm, golden days are
ideal for golf, tennis, swim-
ming. Plan a holiday now —
or visit Suva on your way to
America or England.
Every third Saturday at 11
a.m. a Matson Liner sails
from Sydney for San Fran-
cisco.
Please send complete infor-
mation on spending a vaca-
tion in Fiji. M 7
The Oceanic Steamship Co.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
'Phone B 7981-3
Wi
i
ur
rx
rM
Cuticura
Begin enjoying your shave today!
What better way to start the day
than to shave with Cuticura
Shaving Stick. It gives you
a clean, smooth shave without the
slightest irritation and leaves the
skin in good condition.
Cuticura Shaving Stick la. 6d.
Soap la. Ointment la. and 2a. Talcum la. 3d.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S.W.
BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 507-
merchants ’AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
mmm
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD hts any ordinary blade razor, §, f-, g inch.
With this Guard you can shave with perfect safety, with the correct diagonal
shaving stroke ensuring a comfortable shave. Spring clip on the guard allows
instant adjustment. 2/9 each, post free.
Ujbe
PLUM
RAZOR
Strongly-made, grained leather
hinged case provided free with
each razor.
POST FREE PRICES:
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 ea.
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle .... 15/6 ea.
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ea.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in oak case—Black
85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
“PLUM RAZORS” are supplied in two
widths fin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
few are now planted. x Other new varieties
are being- tested.
(1) Prospects of successful tobacco-grow-
ing in Tasmania? (2) Where can I get in-
formation about tobacco culture? (3) What
are the most suitable types to grow, and
where can I get seed or plants? (4) Methods
of marketing f—2953.
(1) It was grown there on an experimen-
tal scale last season, and results obtained
indicate that in some districts it should
prove profitable. It would be wise to make a
trial planting in the district concerned
before growing the crop on a commercial
scale. (2) From Agriculture Department,
Hobart. (3) Probably varieties of Burley.
The Agriculture Dept, will have seed in
July or August. (4) By auction or pri-
vate sale to tobacco manufacturers.
What parasites are used to destroy moths
infesting cocoannts, and has their use proved
successful? —3658.
The Tachnid-fly parasite, Ptychomyia
rernota, was introduced into Fiji from
Malaya, and has proved very successful.
Results are described in “The Cocoanut Moth
in Fiji,” by J. D. Tothill; 31s. Gd.
What causes a blue cattle-dog to snap
viciously at his tail until it bleeds? How
can the habit be stopped? —3732.
Possibly tlie dog has worms. Give a
capsule consisting oif Igr. calomel, lOgr.
arica-nut, 8 drops extract of male fern and
sgr. sulphur, and follow with a tablespoon
of castor oil. Repeat treatment in a fort-
night’s time. Following this treatment give
a warm enema of salt and water, a quarter
teaspoonful to 3oz.
How to feed: young pheasants, quail and
guinea-fowl?— 3612.
Give biscuit, lettuce, hard-boiled liver and
hard-boiled egg. The proportion of hard-
boiled egg should be about one part in four.
All ingredients should be mixed together.
In addition, hang a piece of bad meat over
a 3in. layer of bran; maggots will drop into
the bran and eventually to the floor. The
bran acts as a kind of filter. The ground
should be closed in with wire-netting. Feed
fully-grown birds on mixed seed, chiefly
wheat, with greens of any sort.
How to distinguish full-grown geese from
ganders ? —3562.
The male in most varieties grows larger
than the female. The goose is deeper in
body, a trifle slimmer in neck and smaller in
head. The call of the gander is loud, long
and .shrill ; that of the goose is merely an
answer to it.
How to prevent mildew in onions? —3660.
Mildew is due to invasion of the plant
by the parasitic fungus Peronospora schlei-
deni. Only fairly satisfactory control mea-
sures are known for the disease. Since the
fungus may live over from season to season
in onion refuse in the soil, a rotation of
crops extending over three or four years is
the first necessity. Spraying with Bordeaux
mixture 4-4-40, plus casein spreader, or dust-
ing with Bordeaux powder will check the
spread of the disease if done before the
mildew has appeared, but is of no value
after the fungus has gained entry to the
tissues, so that unless the application of
fungicides is done as a routine procedure
the period of onset of mildew will have to
be predicted. The disease requires plenty
of moisture for its development, with rather
cool nights and relatively warm days. Seed
should not be planted too thickly, and
diseased onion refuse should be collected
and burned after harvest.
(1) Is bee-keeping as profitable in Queens-
land as in M.L.? (2) How many hives are
necessary in Q. to make a profit of £3OO
a year net? (3) What diseases are preva-
lent? (4) What are good districts in S.Q.?
(5) Main source of nectar supply? (O'
Methods of wholesale marketing? (7) Capi-
tal required ?, —3649.
(1) About the same, though Q’land is
not as favorably situated as M.L. regarding
export. (2) Hives return from 30s. to £2
each p.a. (3) Bee-motli is the worst pest.
Foul-brood has been definitely stamped out.
(41 The semi-coastal districts as far north
us Atherton are suitable. (51 Eucalypts
are the main source of supply, with ironbark,
box and bloodwood. (6) Marketing is con-
trolled by the Q’land Honey 8001. (7)
It may be possible to select 'a Crown land
area for an apiary site. In that case, sup-
posing the nucleus of the apiary will have to
be bought on an open market, £5OO to £6OO
may suffice.
Can oranges be kept, under normal con-
ditions, for si,c months? —36s6.
No. Three months is exceptional.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Disc Harrow”: If by chance you ever
do a little plumbing around the tanks and
have occasion to put in lead piping, remem-
ber to flatten it to slightly oval shape. If
a freeze occurs in the winter the expan-
sion will restore it to circular, preventing
a burst.
“E.S.”: If you want a handle for a
drawer, or any small door, saw one end off
a large cotton-reel and screw it on. It is
already bored, but put a small washer
between the screw and the reel to keep the
screw-head from working into the hole
Mick” :. Tell “Paul C.” (B. 20/5/’3l)
lie is looking for trouble when tapping a
bloated cow if he withdraws the knife so
tnat the gas may escape. When the knife is
driven into the unfortunate beast two
incisions are made, one in the hide, and
the other in the skin of the bowel. Unless
4* re . these two openings
ul tail to coincide as the flatulence de-
-2n« aS t!f’ « vlt 1 J 1 ! 0 result that the escaping
togelher with particles of partly digested
llJt 11 find its way into the abdominal
<awry and probably cause blood poisoning.
{ llO correct procedure is to drive the knife
downwards and forwards at the point indi-
ented by "P.C.,” give a half turn to open
me cut, and keep the openings together by
Holding the knife in position until all the
f, as has escaped. A dab of stock tar on
the wound will save Brindle a lot of trouble
from flics, etc.
"Dai R.": Handy feed-troughs can be
made from empty kero.- or petrol-tins Cut
diagonally from end to end, bind all sides
with two-inch batten’for strength, and affix
to four posts of required height in ground.
They don't absorb filth and disease germs
like wood, and can be easily cleaned with
ashes by children.
“Disc Harrow”: In nailing corrugated-
iron sheets for sides of sheds the nails should
be placed in the grooves. An old four-inch
bolt makes a good punch and prevents the
hammer damaging the sheets. Another little
detail often overlooked is clinching the nails
that come through from the roof. Other-
wise wind and storms soon loosen - the
sheets.
“Bill B.”: Where sheep are butchered
on the farm for home rations, have a one-
man gallows erected. Place an Bft. forked
post secure in the ground, and pin in the
fork a 12ft. rail, leaving a 3Jft. short end.
With 15in. of wire or rope hang the gambrel
thereto. Five feet away, under the long end,
erect two split posts so that the rail will
just drop between them. Bore them at 6in.
intervals and provide a pin for the holes.
When the sheep is on the gambrel it can
be lifted easily to the height required, and
kept there by pinning the rail between the
split posts.
“Gordo Blanco”: If you live in a
suitable district add a few’ prunes and
apricots to the farm orchard. They
cost little to grow and very little to process,
and are far tastier than bottled fruits. I
grow a number of prune-trees along a boun-
dary fence, and besides enough for home use
I have a lot to give away. Such trees thrive
along irrigation ditches.
“Mulyan”: Wild ducks are usually dear
in Sydney shops. The birds generally mar-
keted are the grey duck and the so-called
wood-duclc (maned goose). Both are worthy
of a place in the poultry yard; they are
easily tamed, and if the wings are clipped
they run and do well with the other fowls.
The blue-winged shoveller and the magpie
goose are two other excellent birds. The best
way to start a flock is to get the eggs and
place them under a hen in a netted enclo-
sure, keeping the ducklings there until they
lose their natural shyness. The hen is
better than an incubator, as she helps in
domesticating the wild progeny.
“Koolonga”: You’ll probably have some
bother mounting a fresh horse or a young-
ster if'you don’t know how. Take the reins
in your left hand at the length you hold
them when mounted, and, still grasping
them, take hold of the cheek-strap with the
same hand. Put your left foot in the stir-
rup, and, standing square to his shoulder,
grasp the offside stirrup-leather where it
meets the saddle with your right hand. You
must spring off the right foot and get across
the saddle very quickly. Gripping the cheek-
strap stops him jumping from you as you
mount.
“Azac”: Some good practical cures for
bloat. Place some Stockholm tar on the
tongue of the animal or give a drench of
treacle and molasses in warm water. A
drench of loz. of carbonate of soda in a
pint of water is also efficacious. In the case
of cattle, place a chip in the mouth to keep
it open, when the animal will often belch
up the gas. After relieving an animal of
bloat, a dose of raw linseed oil is very
soothing. In the case of cattle choking, pass
a piece of rubber hose down the throat and
dislodge the obstruction.
“Corimba”: The fallacy of joining two-
tooth rams with maiden ewes has been demon-
strated to a Wamboota (Vic.) grazier whose
property had been leased for a number of
years. On resuming his land he stocked up
with youth on both sides. Out of his initial
800 lambs dropped, 100 died, in most cases
almost directly after delivery. The ewes
are first-cross, large-fr(amed and in good
to fat condition and were joined in November
with high-class Border Leicester, Dorset Horn
and Suffolk rams. Every care has been
taken from the time of mating and the ewes
have not been off the property. The per-
centage of loss is altogether too high to be
attributable to any cause other than the
immaturity of the rams.
“Trifolium”: The value of top-dressed
pastures and grazing lucerne for fattening
lambs has been demonstrated at the Temora
(N.S.W.) experiment farm. The lambs
used were from come-back ewes by Dorset
Horn rams. They were divided into three
lots of ten and grazed on lucerne, natural
pasture and top-dressed natural pasture re-
spectively. Throughout the trials (1930)
the lambs on the natural pasture were obvi-
ously inferior to those grazing on lucerne
and top-dressed pasture. The lambs were
killed when 14 weeks old, the average weights
being 3811 b. from the top-dressed pasture,
3711 b. from the lucerne and 2611 b. from the
natural pasture.
Disappointing as the price of wheat has
been, Westralian farmers have fared a bit
better than those in N. S. Wales, Vic. and
South Aus.—in Queensland, of course,
special conditions obtain. At the end of
May the trustees of Westralia’s No. 1 Pool
declared a second dividend of 3d. per bushel,
bringing the amount paid to Is. 7d. per
bushel net at sidings—£l,9oB,ooo altogether.
As merchants have been offering 2s. Id. a
bushel at sidings there should be something
more to come. Into the No. 1 Pool went:
about half of the estimated marketable har-
vest of 49,500,000 bushels.
“Bad Australian”: “Why does a horse
hang back with his mouth open when led by
the bridle reins?” “Grunter” asks (B.
3/6/’3l). Simply because he has been badly
broken-in; and the worst possible way of
breaking a colt to lead and tie up is by
roping him around the neck, as recommended
by “Grunter.” A young animal .should
always be taught to lead and tie up in a
halter—never by the barbarous and anti-
quated roping method, which has strangled
or seriously injured many a good animal.
When a colt hangs back on the halter the
strain is exerted on his poll, and when he
has been once taught the futility of pulling
back lie will give no trouble when led with
the bridle reins; immediately he feels the
pressure exerted on the poll-strap by a pull
on the reins he comes forward at once. As
a horse usually holds his head on a level
with his withers, or slightly higher, when
being led, it is difficult to understand
“Grunter’s” contention that a forward pull
on the rings causes the bit to press down
on the horse’s tongue, except possibly when
the comparatively rare Pelham is used.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do .is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady (40), N.S.W., wants position of housekeeper
to widower or bachelors. Refs.—3BoB. -
Literary man (Sydney), exp. flower-growing, will
give 21 days per week gardening for room and
board. —3831.
Position on sheep station, Queensland or N.S.W., by
active man, temperate, eight years’ experience general
station work and books, store, large holdings. Drive
cars, lorries. Would also tutor children.—3B36.
B.A. (Sydney) will coach for all exams.: Leaving,
Inter., Accountants’ (Law), Public Service, Nurses’,
etc. —3826.
Shale retort engineer, 40 years' exp., wants job
in N.5.W.—3772.
Married man (30), N.S.W. farming exp., will give
part services for accommodation and use of piece
of 1and.—3775.
Inventor of shale or coal retort wants capital to
build demonstrating unit.—3773.
To exchange a Bute casting fishing reel and cash
for an Bin. or 9in. wooden reel with brake, or will
buy.—3793.
To buy parcels black and blue 0pa15.—3798.
To buy correspondence courses in journalism, ;bort-
story writing, mental training, etc., also reference
books useful to a writer. —3820.
To buy, Edison Diamond Disc records, “Roll on,
Beautiful World,” “Abe at the Opera,” and any of
Cal Stewart’s; or will exchange records. —3819.
Words of verse containing “And when on the
plains the lights grew dim The sweetest wife that
ever lived would watch and wait for him.” —3776.
Words of song “La Boheme.” —3801.
Whereabouts of William O’Neill, last heard of at
Blackall, Q’land, three years ago. —3769.
Information Sought.
(1) How much motor spirit is used
annually in Australia? (2) Amount paid
annually by Australian consumers? —3256.
(1) In 1929-30 imports were 239.875,732
gallons, valued for Customs purposes at
£7,429,485. In addition, 122,100,134 gallons
of crude oil were imported, valued at
£1,118,332, portion of which was refined and
««»"crted into motor spirit in Australia. (2)
fhcial figures, but assuming an average
- price throughout Australia of 2s. per
l, the amount in 1929-30 exceeded
10,000.
ave sold a block of land in N.S.W.,
isc price being partly payable in hi-
nts extending over six months. The
sir has paid no instalments, and
only a portion of the quarterly interest. 1
have reduced the instalments 33J per cent,
and am not charging extra interest. Gan
I take, the land back, or does the Mora-
torium Act prevent me? —3815.
You may give notice to the purchaser
that after the expiration of one month you
propose to exercise your rights under the
agreement. At the end of that time you will
he at liberty to' do so, unless a Court, on
the application of the purchaser, otherwise
directs.
<i y if a tenant will not pay his > rent in
N.S.W., can the landlord put him out, and
by what means? (2) If a tenant is in
receipt of a pension, of child endowment and
is receiving the dole, is he supposed to pay
rent? (3) If a tenant is out of work and
owes rent, when he is in work again can he
refuse to pay what is owing? If not, by
what means can the landlord recover? —
3810.
(1) If after notice to quit the tenant
neglects to do so, the landlord may apply
to a Court of Petty Sessions for an eject-
ment order. (2) He must pay. (3) The
landlord may recover the rent in the Small
Debts Court.
(1) What opportunities for employment
are there in commercial aviation in Aus-
tralia for « man who has completed nine
years’ service with the R.A.F. and is a
fully-qualified mechanic, together with elec-
trical experience and fifth-class marine engi-
neer’s certificate? (2) What is the rate of
pay?— 36lo;
(1) Not many at present. There are 400
licensed ground engineers in Australia to-
day, only half of whom have been able to
find employment in connection with aircraft.
In normal times a man with the qualifica-
tions cited should stand a fair chance of
obtaining a job. (2) £5 10s. to £7 a week,
according to experience.
(1) Can I obtain tuition on Diesel engines
in Australia? (2) Books dealing with the
subject? (3) Manufacturers of Diesel
engines for automobiles? (4) Are these
engines used on touring cars at present? —
3805.
(1) Marine Engineering College, 54 Young-
street, Sydney, may have a course. (2)
•‘Diesel Engines,” by D. L. Jones, 255.; and
“Diesel Engines,” by A. 11. Goldingham,
31s. 6d., obtainable from Dymocks, Sydney.
(3) The Mercedes-Benz Co. makes motor-
lorries ; agency at Arrow-street and Bridge-
road, Pyrmcnt, Sydney. (4) Cummings is
carrying out tests in America, but no touring
cars employing Diesel engines are yet on the
market.
Does any legal protection result from
haring a “Beware-of-the-dog” notice affixed
on one’s gate in the event of the dog biting
a tradesman making a regular call? —3818.
No. If the dog attacks any person legi-
timately entering a private yard the owner
is liable to a penalty. The injured person
can also sue for damage done.
Where can I obtain a translation of the
,E> ncl l C Ji C n al mllcd ‘' Thc Workers'
Charter’’?. —3733.
A translation has been published, but is
out of print. Possibly you could borrow a
copy from a local priest.
Recently it was reported that flowers
taken from Australia were manufactured
into perfume in France. What varieties
of flowers are so used, and what are the
prospects of developing such an industry
locally ? —3629.
Principally Boronia megastigma, which is
used extensively in W.A. for the manufacture
of concrete otto of boronia, and is culti-
vated in Vic. for floral purposes. According
to newspaper reports, a French perfumery
firm is considering the establishment of an
Australian factory which will utilise various
wildflowers, but no details arc available.
Are there regulations regarding the instal-
lation of silencers on noisy speedboats on
Sydney Harbor? What is the penalty for
failure to affix a silencer? —3622.
Yes. A regulation of the Sydney Harbor
Trust provides a penalty of not less than
£5 nor more than £5O for driving a motor-boat
without an efficient silencer or equipped with
a cut-out or other device for producing an
open exhaust.
According to a newspaper report a flash
of lightning killed thousands of fish at
Bechmere (Q.). Is that a common occur-
rence? Would humans swimming during a
thunderstorm be in danger? —3632.
The phenomenon is not uncommon. Any-
one bathing in water struck by lightning
would be seriously affected, perhaps fatally.
I wish to take up auctioneering in a Syd-
ney suburb. (1) Must an auctioneer be
registered? (2) Are there Government regu-
lations dealing with the profession? (3)
Necessary capital to begin with? —3673.
(1) A license must be obtained. A general
license costs £l5 per annum and entitles the
holder to conduct auction sales in any part
of the State. A district license costs £2, and
sales are limited to the police district in
which it is issued. An auctioneer must be
the holder of a general license to conduct sales
in any part of the city of Sydney. (2) Many
Government regulations, and a knowledge of
Common Law, Auctioneers’ Licensing Act
1924, and Sale of Goods Act No. 1 1923 are
essential. (3) Depends on the size of the
business.
(1) How is powdered meat made? (2)
How long will it keep? (3) Is the industry
well established in Australia? —3630.
(1) By cooking in steam retorts, digesters
or melters, after which fat is extracted and
the meat is dried into a powder. (2) For
years, if the moisture and fat are reduced
enough. (3) Yes, in four States, but prices
at present are below payable basis.
What is an anticyclone? —36s2.
An area in which the barometric pressure
increases towards the centre —the antithesis
of a cyclone. The prominent features are
descending air currents, anti-clockwise centri-
fugal wind circulation (Southern Hemisphere
only) and, generally speaking, fair weather.
I wish to claim for family endowment in
N.S.W■ What constitutes “family income”
and. what deductions are allowable? —3639.
The family income is defined as the com-
bined income of the claimant, his wife and
children under 14 years, including weekly
payments as workers’ compensation, and 5
per cent, per annum of real or personal pro-
perty (except their residence, and the furni-
ture and personal effects therein) which pro-
duces less than 5 per cent, per annum. In
assessing the income the following amounts
are excluded, viz., sick pay and funeral
benefits from any society, money received
under fire insurance policy, lump sum pay-
ments as workers’ compensation or super-
annuation on gratuity, earnings of mother
from casual employment, war pension for
a member of the forces or his wife or widow
or his children, earnings from overtime up
to £26, and, where income is derived other-
wise than from wages, the amount expended
in the production of that income.
What demurrage charges are imposed on
goods landed on a wharf at Sydney Harbor
and not collected for soma time, apart from
ordinary harbor and wharfage rates? —363B.
The charges, which commence after 48
hours, are at a daily rate of 4d. per ton
during the first week, sd. the second, 6d. the
third and 7d. thereafter. Storage charges
are imposed on timber after the first 48
hours at the daily rate of Id. per ton for the
first four days, and thereafter at 3d. per ton.
In computing, Sundays and holidays are not
included.
(1) Gan a wood-gas-producer plant be
adapted to stationary or marine use? (2)
Up to what horse-power will such a plant
work? (3) Dimensions of a plant capable of
running a 20 -h.p. motor? (4) Could an
amateur mechanic construct a plant for
stationary use? (5) Are there any books on
this subject] if so, where? —3471.
(1) Yes, but for marine use the bulky
nature of wood fuel has to be taken into
consideration. (2) They are procurable in
Australia up to 500 h.p. (3) Information
could be obtained from the Commonwealth
Gas Power Co., 360 Collins-street, Melbourne,
who arc manufacturers. (4) Such plants
have been constructed in Australia by
amateurs, but it would be exceptional for
such plants to be as efficient or, in the long
run, as cheap as those manufactured by firms
engaged in this class of production/ (5)
Many. Consult any bookseller.
What is the difference between , case-hard-
ened and tempered steel? —3s9B.
Case-hardening consists of heating steel to
temperatures from 900 to 1000 degrees C.
in contact with carbonaceous materials such
as charcoal, crushed bone or leather. The
time of carburising depends upon the depth
of penetration required and is usually
between two and eight hours. The steel is
then allowed to cool slowly, after which it is
again heated and cooled, in water or oil.
After carburising the steel consists of a
high carbon case and a low carbon core.
Carbon steel is hardened by heating to a
cherry-red heat and cooling suddenly as by
quenching in water or oil. The degree of
hardness varies with the percentage of carbon
in the steel and the completeness and sudden-
ness of cooling. As considerable brittleness
follows hardening, steel is usually tempered
by reheating to 218-288 degrees C., and again
quenching.
I propose starting a motor club in N.S.W.
among my friends. I am asking them to pay
£1 Is. per annum, and in return offer them
free repairs, including roadside repairs, re-
placements and trips extra. Would I have to
oe registered? Horn would the scheme work?
—3679.
No necessity for registration. The scheme
is an old one and is unlikely to succeed,
because of the unconditional agreement for
free repairs.
How to make soap from rice hulls? —3621.
The process is not known locally. Accord-
ing to a recently published overseas trade
report, rice hulls are used in the manufacture
of a new cleansing product by the American
Klenzit Laboratory. After experimentally
producing soap powder from the hulls, the
laboratory is now planning to engage in the
manufacture of “rice soap” on a large scale.
The new product has attracted the attention
and gained the endorsement of the Rice
Growers’ Association of California. Apart
from the hulls, olive and cocoanut oils ai\>
used in its preparation. The process of
making the soap is most probably a trade
secret.
What are fig-birds? —3B4s.
Birds about the size of thrushes, found
in northern and eastern Australia, New
Guinea, neigh boring islands and Timor. The
males are yellowish-green above, with black
heads, black tails and yellowish under-
parts ; the females are brown above and
whitish below, streaked with brown. In
both sexes there is a patch of bare skin round
the eye, extending forward to the bill, colored
bright scarlet in males and purplish-grey in
females. They feed on scrub fruits, especially
those of fig-trees.
It was reported some time back that courts
for the trying of tribal offences were to be
established in the Northern Territory. How
would such courts be constituted. Have they
commenced operations yet? —3626.
Legislation to establish such courts is now
being prepared by the Crown Law Officer in
conjunction with the Chief Protector of
Aboriginals for North Australia. Particu-
lars cannot be made available until the draft
ordinance has been considered by the Minis-
ter.
My neighbor’s dog howls throughout the
night. Can I compel him by N.S.W. law
to keep the beast silent? —3625.
Under the N.S.W. Local Government Act
an ordinance enables a council to act for
the abatement of “any nuisance which may
arise from the barking or howling” of a
dog. This ordinance has not been univer-
sally applied by councils, so consult the
local inspector of nuisances.
Some eagle-hawks are darker feathered
than others. Are they different breeds, is
the feathering due to difference in age, or
is it a distinction between male and female?
—3486.
The variation in color is not to any great
extent a matter of variety or sex. Environ-
ment and age have some bearing.
(1) To how many places in decimals has
the value of “Pi” ( the ratio of the circum-
ference to the diameter of a circle ) been
worked out? (2) Is there any prosncct that
it can be definitely ascertained? (3) What
is the difference between the rule-of-thumb
ratio of 3 1-7 1 h and the most exact figure
ascertained (a) in the case of a diameter of
B ft., (b) of 1000 miles?— 3693.
(1) o ver 700 according to the last report
we have seen, but there’s always some crank
working on it, and it may be 1000 by now.
(2) Not the remotest hope. The ratio is
what mathematicians call a “surd,” which
can be calculated to within any required
limits of correctness, but stretches on through
all eternity and all spaee in a never-ending
procession of decimals. (3) Can’t undertake
to wrestle with the 700-point computation.
Comparing 3.14159265, which serves for all
save cosmic calculations, and 3 1-7 («) 3 1-7
is .12139031 in. greater; (b) 3 1-7 is 3 miles
4882 ft. greater. The limit of possible error
in (b), using the eight-point computation, is
about half an inch.
(1) Is there any practicable alternative to
art-unions, street begging, charity dances
and bridge parties as a means of financing
hospitals? How do other countries manage
these things? (2) In a country where the
hospitals have an assured income is there a
tendency to develop a class of individuals who
inhabit hospitals as a means of livelihood?
(3) What check is there on extravagant
administration in a case where the income is
assured ? —3692.
(1) There is taxation. Maoriland assures
hospital income by dividing the country into
hospital and charitable-aid districts, each
administered by a board of representatives
from every part of the district. This board
has no rating powers, but can levy for a
proportion of its needs upon the local bodies
in its district. The remainder is made up of
patients’ fees and other payments for ser-
vices, voluntary contributions and Govern-
ment subsidies. In 1928-29 the revenue of all
hospitals, charitable institutions, etc.,
amounted to about 28s. per head of popula-
tion, of which 40.5 p.c. was nrovided by the
Government, 34.5 p.c. by local bodies, 1.9 p.c.
by gifts and the remainder by patients’ fees,
etc. (2) In M.L. the ratio of hospital
patients to population steadily increases. It
was 445 per 1000 in 1925 and 569 per 1000
in 1929. (3) In M.L. there is the twofold
check of Government supervision and the
responsibility of board members to the people
who elected them.
How to apply in N.S.W'. for a week-end
lease of Grown land? Under what condi-
tions are such leases held? —3746.
An application must be lodged with the
Crown Land Agent in the district in
which the land is situated, accompanied by
a deposit of a half-year's rent and onc :
tenth of the survey fee. Particulars of such
leases may be obtained from the Informa-
tion Bureau of the Lands Department, Syd-
ney. A week-end lease is a lease in per-
petuity, and is subject to the carrying out
of any conditions that may be notified. Re-
sidence is not necessary. After five years,
provided conditions are fulfilled, a grant will
issue. An application may be made to pur-
chase.
Brief Answers.
R.A.8.: Gramophone sound-boxes come
under Tariff Item 404: British preferential, free;
general, 10 per cent. ; plus in both cases primage
duty 4 per cent, and sales tax 24 per cent
W.K.: Cos. “doing the smalls” in Australia include
Mack’s, Mackay and Warton’s, George Sorlie’s, Cole’s,
Coleman’s and Lytton’s. . . .M.N.: (1) “The
Laughing Cavalier” was painted by Frans Hals
(1580-1666), who is regarded as second only
to Rembrandt among Hutch portrait painters. (2)
See Head’s “Sir Anthony Van Byek and Frans Hals”
and Davies’s “Frans Hals”.... W.J.: In physical
science a halo is a luminous circle formed by the
reflection and refraction of light by ice-crystals
suspended in the atmosphere. In painting it is port-
rayed about the heads of deities and saints. .. .P.P.: A
full-size ping-pong table is Oft. by sft. There are
no periodicals devoted to the game. Mick Simmons,
Ltd., George-street, Sydney, could supply rules and
other information.... W.W.: Recruiting for the
R.A.N. has been suspended indefinitely. Particulars
are obtainable from the District Naval Officer, Naval
Staff Office, Beach-road, Edgediff, Sydney... .C.R.F.:
IV. C. Penfold and Co., Sydney, published a work
on the subject by A. J. Daplvn some years ago.
Price 2s W.J.G.: Probably a salt-glaze piece by
Ridgeway, or some other Staffordshire manufacturer,
made between 1850 and 1870. It is hardly old
enough to be an antique.... M.L.: Under the N.S.W.
Landlord and Tenant Act, if a tenant’s goods were
distrained upon they had to be sold by auction, but
now, under the Amending Act of last year, distress for
rent has been abolished. . . .W.T.D.: The Q’land Divid-
ing-Fences Act makes your neighbor liable in equal
proportions. Serve him with notice, and if without
reasonable excuse he refuses to comply with it, you
may sue him for his half of the cost. Consult clerk
of nearest Court of Petty Sessions as to details.
J.N.H.: 30s. complete; of no value incomplete.
. ... J.S.D.: The Imperial Diesel engine is made by
A. H. McDonald and Co., 641 Bridge-road, Richmond
(Vic.), and 6 McAvoy-street, Alexandria (N.S.VV.) ....
I. : N.S.W. Unemployment Relief Tax is payable
on incomes derived from all sources... .N.A.D.R.: (1)
From £1 Is. to £2 2s. (2) Broadcasting cos.
require only sole broadcasting rights; you retain all ■
other rights. (3) F. W. Thring, Melbourne
B. : From the Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney.
Plans and directions are also printed in “The Aus-
tralian Encyclopaidia”. ... G.G.: You did not draw a
prize in the Sydney Hospital or Lucky Lifebuoy art
unions. For the other, write to the promoters;
results were not published in Sydney... .A. L.F.:
“Week-end Book,” published by the Nonesuch Press,
London. Price 15s G.K.: Quiller-Couch’s “On
the Art of Writing” (7s. 6d.), Joseph’s “Short Story
W'riting for Profit” (7s. 6d.), obtainable Angus and
Robertson.. . .W.E.B. i Central Insurance Co., 72 Pitt-
street; Australian Provincial Assurance Assoc., 77
King-street; Southern Union General Insurance Co.,
34 Martin-place—all Sydney... .P.D.: Try E. Esdaile
and Sons, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney... .C.H.:
“Studies” is an Irish quarterly review of letters,
philosophy and science. Address: 35 Lower Lerron-
street, Dublin. It could be procured through Gordon
and Gotch, Sydney... .H.W.M.: A gets 45., B pays
8s J.T.S.: (1) “Inter-ocean” is now published
by G. Kolff and Co., Weltevreden, Java. (2) The
British Consul-General might make inquiries for you.
.... A.A.K.: Make it a “knock-out” tourney, the
individual pair with the highest score in one set
of four meeting the winner or winners of the other
sets until only one player or pair is left. .. .M.L.W.:
Get in touch with the Director, Vocational Guidance
Bureau, Education Dept., Sydney... .M.J.: From the
Government Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney....
W.H.F.: See “Statesman’s Year-Book, 1930”
(page 76) at N.S.W. Public Library... .W.C.: Write
to any of the following: Robt. Harper and Co.;
Waters Trading Co. ; J. F. McKenzie and Co. ; and
Clifford Love and Co. —all Sydney... .11. D.: Write
Agriculture Dept., Brisbane, for Stock Pest Leaflet
No. 1....H.G.: By shooting or trapping. .. .R.D.:
Write to the Director, Walter and Eliza Hall Insti-
tute of Research, Melbourne Hospital. .. .K. 11.: (1)
No, domestic work in Papua is carried out by natives.
(2) “Papuan Courier,” Port Moresby, Papua....
F.G.: Understand such a publication is under con-
sideration. Get in touch with Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .J.H.T.: The most famous river falls are
Niagara, the Victoria Falls on the Zambesi River,
Iguassu, between Argentine and Brazil, and the series
of falls in the Yosemite Valley in California
11. : See “Sydney Morning Herald,” September
14, 1930... .G.A.8.: Write to Miss Glen McGarrity,
secretary, Society of Australian Composers and
Authors, care Beale and Co., 340 George-street,
Sydney. .. .J. 8.: “Prospecting for Gold,” by lon L.
Idriess, obtainable Angus and Robertson, ss. 4d.
posted... .11. C.: Write to Spicers and Detmold, corner
Kent and Druitt streets, Sydney... .G.J.D.: To
comply with the Act A should have required B, in
writing, to contribute equally to the cost of repairs.
If B had refused or neglected to do so within six
months after the receipt of the notice, without
reasonable excuse, A could then have gone on with
the work and have recovered the half-cost in court
from B. Any dispute as to the sufficiency of the
fence could have been referred to arbitration. A
does not now appear to have any claim at 1aw....
D.S.: You are not liable; the solicitor was not em-
ployed by you C.A.J.: (1) You can patent a
new composition but must disclose ingredients and
method of manufacture. Trade-mark may be regis-
tered in Commonwealth Trade-mark Office, Melbourne.
(2) Consult a patent attorney. (3) Crane and Sons,
33 Pitt-street, for tubes, and John Sands, 374
George-street, both Sydney, for cartons... .M.D.:
Discontinued owing to financial, stringency. The
money raised is being used for art scholarships
awarded each year.... J.W.: Lord Baden-Powell was
born in London, February 22, 1857. He was the
sixth son and the eighth of ten children. .. .K.C.P.:
Assuming that the court has been surfaced with
gravel and is in a well consolidated condition, about
4 gallon of emulsion per square yard will be re-
quired. This should be 'spread with a broom on to
the previously damped gravel and afterwards covered
with fine gravel or coarse sand. If the court is
already tarred, about half this quantity will do.
Duratenax emulsion costs lid. per gallon f.o.r. Bur-
wood in 42-gallon drums; and Duratar emulsion 9(1.
. ...J.V.K.: The Q. Fencing Act provides that be-
fore the fence is erected the owner or occupier of
the adjoining land must be served with a notice.
If he fails to comply as to nis half value of the
work within three months, the work may be done
and the half value recovered in a Court of Summary
Jurisdiction. If C complied with the law he has a
good claim, but otherwise with A and 8....R.H.P.:
Pretty nearly as cheap, and a whole lot safer, to
buy an incubator ready made. Can’t find any plans
for a home-made one... .W.T.N.: Your only chance
would be to canvas the various shipping cos., a
pretty hopeless job, considering the times and your
lack of seafaring experience... .H.E.8.: He should
pay 2s. per week unemployment relief tax....
W.M..C.: (1) Can find no reference to it. (2) Get
in touch with Vic. Railways Department... .M.F.Si:
(1) Leaflets explaining the main tenures under the
N.S.W. Crown Lands and Closer Settlement Acts are
issued free by Lands Dept., Sydney. (2) Information
regarding Torrens, freehold and other titles is obtain-
able from the Registrar-General’s Department....
(Many others mailed.)


CATTLE-CAMP
ē
By J. J.HARDIE
Synopsis : Margaret Kennedy, on her
way to Corella station, in North
Queensland, whither she has been in-
rited by Tom Donaldson, father of
her school friend, has the wild and
woman-shy stockman Ken Craig de-
scribed to her in startling detail by
Harry the mailman. Suddenly the
horses take fright and bolt ; Harry is
thrown off, and Margaret is left alone
on the coach. She is rescued from a
seemingly inerAtable crash into the
creek-bed below by the decisive action
eff Craig, ivlxo, riding out of the bush,
shoots the leading horses, and orders
Margaret, who is dressed like a boy,
to help him cut the others loose. She
tries, but the strain is too much, and
she falls unconscious. Craig, who
had mistaken her for what she looked
like, and used language accordingly, is
more embarrassed than ever when he
discovers his mistake. They go on
together to the station, where Donald-
son is pleased to have her as company
for his daughter, Peggy. Margaret
falls under the spell of Craig’s roman-
tic personality, though she resents the
fact that he is continuously doing
things that appear to her to put her
in his debt. The latest of these is
letting her take his favorite pony,
Dawn, without protest. He goes away
to help a queer character, Larry
Nolan, with his horses.
CHAPTER VII.
THE horseman threw a critical glance at
the elongated shadow of the pack-
horse and stirred him into a reluctant
canter with a flick of the long stockwhip.
Ken had ridden quietly away from the
station into the cool breeze that precedes the
dawn, and, with the exception of a short
mid-day halt, had pushed steadily across the
sun-bleached expanse of the downs towards
the thin pencil of smoke that crept over
the northern horizon in answer to his signal-
fire.
All afternoon he had travelled across a
waterless stretch of tall, curly Mitchell
grass broken by dark clumps of gidya—
virgin country, because of its inaccessi-
bility save to the little mobs of wild
horses that had challenged the horseman
from afar before they sailed off, manes and
long tails floating out in the breeze, with
that smooth, gliding action and air of
arrogant freedom that has to be seen to be
realised.
He knew he must be somewhere near
Nolan’s camp, yet, he was unprepared for
the sudden noiseless appearance of the
ragged apparition on a bony old horse that
materialised from the dai’k shadows of the
gidya, and ranged silently alongside.
“Good day, Larry!”
The disreputable old scarecrow, his hair
and beard long and unkempt, stared
stonily ahead; then, after a pause, the
corner of the thin lips moved and there
issued a grudging “G’day!”
They rode in silence for a while. Ken
knew enough of the man and his queer
habits not to take exception to his surly
behavior. His practised eye ran over the
old man’s mount, appreciating the fine lines
of a once-splendid horse beneath the dull
coat clinging to the scraggy outline. Still,
he felt that if he owned hundreds of horses,
he would be riding something better than
this.
Nolan’s eyes never appeared to have left
some distant point on the horizon, yet he
suddenly rasped:
“Not much good, is he?”
Taken by surprise, Ken hesitated a
moment.
“He’s nothing to look at, but I would like
to have owned him ten years ago!”
“So would a lot of men!” The sharp
features twisted to a sardonic smile. “Think
you know something about horses, do you?”
“No!” Ken shook his head quietly but
decisively. “Just enough to realise I don’t
know much.”
“Well, there’s some hope for you.”
Nolan’s camp, which they reached at sun-
down, appeared to consist of a smooth, worn
patch of ground round a fire, between the
tall coolabahs surrounding a dark, scrub-
enclosed waterhole and high stockyard.
Sign of habitation there was none.
They made a silent meal, the old man
voraciously wolfing the unaccustomed food
from Ken’s pack-bags. Ken, sitting com-
fortably back lighting his pipe, looked up
suddenly to find the old man’s fierce gaze
bent on him. He sensed the tobacco-hunger,
and, rummaging in a pack-bag, fished out a
plug, which he threw across to the old man
with a curt “I’ve got plenty.”
They smoked in silence, eyes gazing
reflectively into the low, leaping flames,
till Nolan rasped: “Wonder why I sent
for you?”
Ken shook his head, his eyes still on the
fire. “The boss reckoned you wanted a
hand to brand some colts. Not too soon,
either,” he added sententiously.
The old man sneered. “Huh! How’s
that?”
“Well, I know you have some decent
horses, but there’s a lot of cleanskin brum-
bies wandering round the country that
want something done to them.” He paused
a while, then added: “I would hate to see
them shot. That’s why I came.”
The old scarecrow cackled raucously.
Ken knocked out his pipe and turned
abruptly to his swag. His last glimpse,
before sleep claimed him, was of the ragged,
gaunt figure gazing abstractedly into the
fire, nodding occasionally to the accom-
paniment of thoughts.
The two men paused on the top rail of
the yard, the younger running a practised
eye over the restless mob of horses beneath,
while the old man watched him with a
curious intensity.
A mare squealed shrilly and lashed out
viciously. Apart from the mob, two thick-
necked stallions, bearing the scars of many
battles, sparred desultorily with growing
hate in their red eyes.
“Anythin’ wrong with them?” the harsh
voice demanded.
“No, they’re not bad. I don’t go much
on your stallions.”
“Huh! Think you would know a decent
horse if you saw one?”
“Dunno! I might!”
The casual, laconic reply acted strangely
on the old man. Some repressed emotion
seemed to be getting the better of him.
He twisted quickly round and shambled
across an empty yard, snapping over his
shoulder: “Come here!”
Ken followed, feeling annoyed. He
didn’t expect much from the old hatter,
but this was a bit over the fence. Slipping
between the rails he bumped the old man
staring into the sky. Shading his eyes with
one hand he picked out a motionless speck
high in the blue—a huge eagle-hawk. Noth-
ing uncommon in that, he thought, puzzled
at the lack of motive in Nolan’s queer
behavior.
Ken’s eyes, still blurred with the glare,
dropped on the man. The old eyes were
alight with a furtive emotion.
“We-ell,” he drawled, “what would you
call that?”
Ken turned slowly, stopped with a catch
in his breath, then stared blankly.
The early incredulity of his eyes gave
way to wonder. His staring eyes mar-
velled—worshipped, as a devotee confronted
with the incarnation of the emblem of his
faith. A few yards away, standing aloof,
with an air of majestic dignity, was the
most beautiful horse he had ever seen or
dreamed of in his wildest fancies. Jet-
black, without a single white hair, he was
the acme of perfection! A king among
horses; quiet, dominant majesty emanated
from the intelligent eye, and the poise of
the small head, with the breadth of intelli-
gence between the eyes. His wonderful
coat blazed with life, like an opal on the
blackest velvet, and no matter from where
you looked at him his outlines seemed to be
formed of curves—perfect, wonderful curves.
“Good God!” Ken came back to earth
with a gasp.
Still the old scarecrow was silent, his
keen eyes missing nothing of the younger
man’s rapt expression. His own features
had undergone transition, and the dour,
cynical lines had given way to a look of
sheer triumphant happiness.
This was his hour!
At last Ken wrested his eyes from the
beautiful horse, but his voice was low with
feeling.
“Larry, where did you get him?” His
eyes returned, noted the neat, clean 4N2
on the shoulder, and slowly he added: “If
you had blotched that brand, I would have
skinned you alive, you old devil!”
The young man moved round to view
the horse from a different angle, and as he
did, the big black glided round and faced
him questioningly—no trace of fear, nor of
vice, in the flashing eyes; only the question,
“What do you want?”
Larry whistled softly and the horse moved
delicately towards him, but still kept out
of range. His movement thrilled Ken more
than ever: the small, delicate hoofs; the
beautiful, slim, flat-boned legs; the entire
animal—it moved with a graceful, stately,
effortless rhythm, like oil pouring slowly
across glass; like the easy, flowing passage
of a beautiful snake.
As Ken approached the old man. the
horse swung swiftly away to the back of
the yard.
“Larry, I take off my hat to you! If
anyone had tried to tell me about that
horse, I would have said he was dreaming.”
The old man squatted on his heels, black-
fellow fashion, and Ken slid down beside
him.
Larry’s pipe was out, but he did not
realise - it. After years of silence it was
hard to frame the words that the emotion
of the moment crowded to the surface.
“Ever since I was a bit of a boy back
in Ireland,” he began at last, “I’ve lived
with horses, thought horses—aye, and lived
jor horses! Men hadn’t much time for me
and I had less for them, but I always
got on with horses.
“Well, there came a bit o’ trouble—any-
way, I came out to this country. Horses
were cheap, and the biggest day in me
life was when I owned a horse of me own.
So I went, on working and there, with good
horses and bad, on stations, in racing stables
and stud farms. I had saved up a bit, and
at last I bought some old blood mares and
started to look about for a bit of country
for them. So I drifted out here.
“The blacks was bad then. One day I
come across a filly o’ mine—they had
speared her, the dirty blackguards, and
carted away as much as they could!” The
fierce old eyes blazed at the memory. “I
had me rifle with me and I follows their
tracks. Just at the Red Ridge I comes
up with the black bastards. J was tearin’
mad, I tell you. A couple of boomerangs
whistled past me and I saw them gettin’
their spears ready, but I cared for nothin’.
Straight at them I rode, firin’ steady, drop-
pin’ them one after the other —eight of
them. And since that day”—his tone was
grim—“they’ve never interfered with me
or mine.”
Ken was beginning to see daylight now
but he did not interrupt.
“A white man stole some o’ me horses
once, but I cut his tracks too soon for
him. I got me horses back, and he’ll
never come near this bit o’ country again!
“I lost horses by drought, a few by sick-
ness, but old age took my first lot, and
I had to cast about to keep them going.
Folks reckon I’ve never left my horses
since I came here,” he chuckled harshly.
“If they only knew!
“I picked up a likely colt cheap once —
the fool that bred him couldn’t see any-
thing in him. That was the real beginning
of things—you’ll see traces of him in me
best stock.
“Still I was thinkin’ and workin’ to one
end. I bred a mare, as beautiful a thing as
you’d wish to see —not knowing him!” A
skinny thumb jerked sideways. “I took
another trip inside, and at last I found the
mate I wanted for my mare, but there
was never a chance of me findin’ the ser-
vice fee, let alone anythin’ else.
“I came back, but the next year I took
my mare down. Well, it so happened that
year a real outsider—owned be a bookmaker,
they said—won the Brisbane Cup. Funny
thing about it, too—after the race she dis-
appeared again. Never heard of no more!”
The old man’s tone was bland, but it held
a ring of triumph as he concluded:
“Anyway, I got what I wanted—l proved
that I could breed a horse.” His skinny
hand waved at the beautiful animal watch-
ing him with a steady look. “There’s the
result! Now am I right?” He shot the
question at Ken, glaring furiously the while.
The young man stood up and looked
earnestly down at him.
“Larry, if you dropped dead this minute,
you would still have more to your credit
than half the men this world calls great.”
The old fellow stood up stiffly, and his
voice was full of sadness. “His mother died
when he was six weeks’ old—a snake bit
her—blast its murderin’ soul! I reared
that foal myself with the milk off an old
mare, though her own foal died because of
it. I’ve kept him quiet here—he’s been
out at times, but not often—and you’re
the first man bar meself to set eyes on him!
Wait a bit!” He held up a, hand as Ken
attempted to ’speak. “Wait till I finish!
All me life men have been up against me
and I agin them. That day when the death-
adder got me I thought I was done. About
meself I didn’t care, but I was thinkin’
of me horses—of him! Without you I
would have died on the spot, for I never
before heard of a man gettin’ bit be a
death-adder and livin’. When you chopped
off your own finger to go on suckin’ the
poison out of me—l didn’t think o’ that
till after—well, you’re the only man that’s
ever gone out of his road to do a thing for
Larry Nolan, and because o’ that” —his
voice choked a bit, but his eyes glared
fiercely—“l’m giving you him!” -
Ken stared, unbelieving. “You’re what?”
he faltered.
“I’m handing him over to you,” he rasped.
“Can’t ye hear me?”
Ken was stunned. To gaze on the horse
was a privilege—an honor given to few
men. But to think that a man could,
out of the experience of a lifetime, breed
such a perfect animal and give him away
to a comparative stranger—it was incred-
ible! The man was even madder than he
had thought.
Then, as he allowed himself to entertain
the idea for a fleeting second, his heart
beat almost to suffocation, and the warm
blood coursed madly through him.
The owner of this horse!
Then he realised that the old man was
speaking again. ,
“I’ve been watching you for years, ana
beyant the turn you did for me, many s
the time I’ve felt like getting you up here
to help me. I wall say this for you you re
one of the few men that handles a horse
with your head. Them fancy riders tha
call themselves horsemen, stickin’ on be
brute force and ignorance—huh!
“I want you to handle that horse and
break him yourself—that’s if you think you
can ride him,” he added derisively.
Ken’s voice was slow and measured:
“Larry, you’re making far too much o!
nothing. If that beauty was mine I wouldn t
give him up to the King. But if you mean
it”—his voice was deep and vibrant I H
handle and train that horse as no horse
was ever handled before.” He thrust his
right hand towards the old man, who took
it in a fierce grip, then thrust it from him
aiid turned away quickly.
During the days that followed, Ken con-
centrated on the education of the black
horse with an intensity that held Ins
thoughts, awake or asleep. He knew that
words could not convey his thanks to the
old man for his gift, but he resolved to
make his work worthy of the horse. The
accumulation of years of experience and
the man’s natural ability and understanding
were fused by the white-hot enthusiasm
aroused by his new possession.
Every step in the horse’s training was
thought out with infinite care. There was
no rush; one lesson was allowed to sink
in before a new one was commenced.
Nolan’s sardonic voice gibed his early
efforts at handling the horse, but Ken
refused to use the rope. Rather than risk
injuring him, he was prepared to wait days,
even weeks, to gain the end he had planned.
The first tussle occurred when the big
horse was being taught to lead. By this
time Ken could walk up to him, and,
beyond a slight show of resistance, the
horse would allow the caressing hand to
pass over the splendid shoulder and up the
neck to the delicate silk of the forelock.
But the indignity of being dragged about
at the end of a rope roused a smouldering
flame of resentment in the horse. Ken
noted it with grim satisfaction. The tussle
had to come —better get it over now.
At last, with a scream of rage, the black
horse leaped straight at him. He dodged
the striking hoofs, pulling hard on the rope.
Round flashed the horse, eyes glaring like
a demon’s, lashing with hind feet, striking,
rearing with teeth bared for the moment
when he could trap the elusive being on
the nagging rope. Again he reared, and
the rope jerked quickly. The big horse
lost his balance and toppled sideways in
the thick dust with a deep grunt.
When he rose and shook himself the rage
had gone from him. The man walked
quietly across, and an outstretched hand
soothed the wounded pride and eased the
tight loop on the windpipe.
“What do you call him, Larry?”
The old man expectorated reflectively.
“Never could find a name to fit him!”
“I’m going to call him Eaglehawk!”
Larry nodded contentedly. “One names
as good as another, and that’s not bad!”
The big day in the breaking-in had
arrived. The black horse had learned the
feel of the tight girth and the indignity
of the crupper. He would lead on a thread
of cotton, and Ken had expended all the
care and experience he possessed in mouth-
ing him.
He had chosen a small, round yard to
ride him in, the floor thick with dust, and
worn by numberless hoofs till it was far
below the level of the ground where Larry
stood peering through the rails, tense with
expectation.
The younger man was outwardly calm.
He fixed the saddle to his satisfaction, and
let the stallion walk round the yard a few
times to get it worked into place.
Ken passed the reins over the delicate
ears, his left hand grasping a lock of the
flowing mane, the off rein slack, near
rein tightly drawing the beautiful head
towards him. Quietly he fitted a toe into
the stirrup-iron, his right hand feeling for
the “monkey-strap” on the pommel, then—
a quiet movement, almost too quick for old
eyes to follow, and he was in the saddle.
He sensed the great girth of the horse
between his knees, and his eyes focussed
intuitively on the black head.
The big horse took a stiff pace forward,
then another; and the old man was watch-
ing the fight of his lifetime. Head and
tail flashed to meet under his belly, Eagle-
hawk shot high in the air till his rider
thought they w'ould never come dowm.
Back with a spin as he landed, facing the
opposite direction, hitting the ground with
a jar that rippled up the rider’s spine and
almost cracked his neck. No sooner on
the ground than up again, bucking viciously,
with a tenacity of purpose that caused the
old man to gasp. As the horse bucked high
in the air he could see daylight beneath
his belly in a line with his own eyes. When
he hit the ground the horse dipped till
he could see over fihe rider’s head.
Ken was having the ride of his life.
Breathlessly he hung on, calling on all his
experience and intuition, as the horse
twisted, reared and bucked backwards,
striking viciously at the bit. One moment
the wind was sailing past his face, next one


*9
*x.
0,
\\
/■
4
\
X
////<
X
?<mm
m
SM
/i
Joel/' Mat, /
Sir/
<2\
TOP OF THE TREE
Not always in the manner con-
veyed by this picture, but always
as far as the Hat industry is
concerned.
When you are admiring your
new FAYREFIELD, admiring
its comfort, quality and style,
just remember that it is “All
Australian,” both in material
and manufacture.
Remember, too, that by purchas-
ing Australian-made goods you
are helping your country out of
its difficulties. Apart from that,
you cannot get a better hat at
such a moderate price.
NU-FELT 25/-, SUPER-FELT 30/-, PREMIER-FELT 35/-
Sole manufacturers of the “MANSARD”
Hat, the new registered design.
The Trade-mark and Quality are stamped in every
genuine FAYREFIELD.
v!
y.
R
<W
&
A
IV
N
W.
//
1
u Always Ahead ”
SYDNEY:
United Felt Hats Pty., Ltd.,
Nichols Street, Surry Hills.
MELBOURNE:
United Felt Hats Pty., Ltd.,
48 Nicholson Street, Abbotsford.
BRISBANE:
John Bell & Co.,
133 Elizabeth Street.
F 2-31.
ADELAIDE:
C. G. Walk,
Bower B’ldings, Charles Street.
PERTH:
A. H. Mills,
Central Hay Street.
foot or the other would hit the dust as a
black shoulder dipped to the ground.
The horse bucked in a savage, uncanny
silence —never a squeal, never a grunt came
to the watcher clinging tightly to the rails,
his eyes staring, wondering when the horse
would give in.
‘‘God, he’s got him!” he gasped, as a sud-
den twist threw the rider forward and side-
ways. “No, he’s back! Good man!” And
on went the fight.
Never in a lifetime had he seen a horse
buck for so long. Ken’s face was pale, he
had lost his hat, and only his will-power
seemed to be keeping him in the saddle.
Then the black horse, sweat pouring from
him, lathering his flanks, stopped and drew
in a long, sobbing breath. He walked a few
paces and stood still, the proud neck
straighter than usual, the eye still majestic,
but with a new light dawning in it.
He had found his master and acknow-
ledged it, but without loss of prestige.
“Git off, man! Git off!” Larry stamped
at the rails. He could see that Ken was
exhausted, dazed.
The rider gathered the reins on the
horse’s neck, slipped quickly to the ground,
then clutched at the rails as his nose gushed
blood.
Larry slipped through the rails and led
the still dazed man into the shade, then
hurried away for the water-bag. A thin
stream of water trickled on the back of
Ken’s neck, over his head, soaking his
clothes impartially, till the bleeding stopped
and the man looked up, his color slowly
returning.
He took a deep breath, his eyes focussed
on the horse. “You beauty!” he murmured.
“You wonder!”
The old man cackled happily. “Man,
you’re a horseman!” And Ken, rising to
remove the saddle from the unprotesting
horse, thrilled at the compliment from such
an unexpected quarter but more at the
elation within him, knowing that he had
had the fight of his life and had won. And
the shade of regret he shared with the
big horse was mingled with his respect for
the battle he had put up. It’s the hard-
earned things in life that are most
treasured, and the man felt that he had
gained from the beautiful animal the con-
fidence he was striving for.
That evening Ken saddled and rode the
stallion again, this time working him round
the big yard, accustoming him to the weight
on his back and to move about freely. The
horse made no attempt to buck, and Ken
was not sorry, as he was still suffering from
the shaking he had received that morning.
Next day both felt somewhat recovered,
and Eaglehawk salved his conscience by
bucking round the yard—high powerful
bucks, but straight ahead, without the
vicious twists of yesterday. '
In the afternoon Larry let down the
sliprails, and, mounting his old horse, accom-
panied the black horse on his first trip
abroad.
Ken took him quietly through the timber,
then cantered him steadily, exulting at
the long, powerful swing of the horse, at
the confident sensation of the long sloping
shoulder and proudly-arched neck before
him.
The black horse rebelled a little when
Ken worked him away on his own, but he
gave in to the quiet hands and steady
pressure, and they came back to the camp
at an easy canter.
“He’s behavin’ like an old horse!” was
Larry’s verdict. “He’s got all the sense
of a dozen horses and not an ounce of
vice!”
CHAPTER VIII.
During the next two days Ken and the
black horse systematically explored the
country around the camp, sometimes accom-
panied by Larry, but generally alone. They
worked up the course of the hidden creek,
finding two waterholes, equally as big as
the Yard Hole, only horse-tracks visible
along the muddy edge, barring the
occasional track of an emu or turkey, the
two long grooves of a kangaroo, or the
pads of a dingo.
A few miles below the camp the scrub
thinned out, and the creek bed broke into
shallow channels, spreading out fanwise into
a hummocky black-soil swamp, bare of
grass, but sparsely covered with a low silver-
grey leaved shrub —bluebush.
Little wonder the creek had never been
discovered or surveyed! Had it emptied
into the Barker River it would have been
mapped at once, and the cattle would have
spread up and grazed on the fat country
out from it. As it was, cattle would never
venture so far from their regular feeding-
grounds, except in the wet season when
water lay in gilgais all over the country;
but Larry would probably do some bound-
ary-riding then and head off any exploring
mobs. He would kill a steer for meat,
occasionally, thought Ken, but that was only
to be expected, and the station would never
miss an odd beast.
Eaglehawk was slowly getting the why
and wherefore of things.
One night, as the men sat over their
pipes, Ken looked thoughtfully at the
hunched-up figure in the firelight before
breaking the silence.
“I’ll have to get back to Corella to-
morrow, Larry.”
The old man made no sign, so after a
pause he continued: “Donaldson’s going
to run two cattle camps now, and wants
me to take one.”
Larry grunted with interest. “Good thing,
too! What country are you going to work?”
“Haven’t taken on the job. Can’t say
I want it.”
A pair of fierce eyes glared at him.
“Don’t be a bigger damn fool than you are
now! ”
The young man went on unperturbed:
“He wants me to work the Barker country
—headquarters at Cattle Camp. Alan Gor-
don to work the eastern creeks from the
station. They’re putting up a bullock pad-
dock and horse paddock for the new camp
now.”
“Chance of a lifetime!” Larry’s words
burst forth in a hurried jumble, for there
was passion behind them. “You’ll be able
to keep the horse quiet down there—away
from that station crowd. You’ll be your
own boss. Man, you’re mad to turn down
a chance like that!”
Ken nodded slowly. “I was thinking of
that—maybe I will take it on.”
“Well, listen!” The old man’s tone was
earnest. “Any time you want the black
horse to have a spell, turn him loose, away
from your camp—he’ll come straight here,
and I’ll see to him. If you want him back
in a hurry, or if you can’t come for him,
put up a smoke from the Red Ridge and
I’ll bring him down.” After a pause he
added slowly: “I don’t know how you feel
about it, but I would sooner nobody bar
yourself rode him.”
He peered from half-closed eyes at the
younger man, who nodded in quiet agree-
ment. “That’s my idea, too!” Ken rose
and stretched before turning in for the
night. “I’ll pull out in the morning—see
you before I go.”
But when he rose at daylight there was
no sign of the old man or of his crazy, old-
fashioned saddle. Ken left all the spare
tucker and tobacco in a sugarbag and tucked
it up in the coolabah fork. The two bay
mares and Eaglehawk were already yarded;
and in the thick dust round the black
horse were fresh tracks made by ancient,
worn-out boots, where the old man had said
farewell to his beloved horse.
Ken walked thoughtfully down the moon-
lit track leading from the station buildings
to the homestead, throwing an occasional
glance towards the little horse paddock
where he had left Eaglehawk.
He had slipped into Corella just after
sundown, when the evening meal claimed
the attention of all hands, and so far the
advent of the black horse, had not been
noticed.
As he approached the dim bulk of the
low building with the diffused lamplight
streaming from a doorway on the far side,
something caused him to draw up with a
start, and he stood still breathing softly.
Someone within had struck a few wandering
chords on the piano; then gradually the
scattered harmonies blended into the
delicious, ethereal sweetness of a Chopin
nocturne.
- The listener, stock-still in the darkness,
owned to only a superficial knowledge of
classical music, but there was a something
in this that laid hold on him and wove
phantasies in his brain—not only the music,
but the disturbing charm of the playing.
Forgetful of his mission he squatted on his
heels and finally slipped, down to the ground,
hugging his knees, head to one side, lips
parted, drinking in the beautiful music, and
thrilling at his new-found appreciation of
something lie had never properly realised.
Who could this be? He had often heard
Peggy Donaldson play a snatch of a popu-
lar song, or a few bars qf something which,
proving difficult, she would abandon
abruptly. But this person played with a
touch of easy mastery, hands caressing the
keys, extracting the utmost sweetness from
each note before letting it drop like honey
from the reluctant finger-tips.
Sudden enlightenment flashed on him—
Margaret Kennedy!
(To be continued next week.)
History.
When I were young, in Sydney town,
I often said to Lanky Bill,
“Them windmill-sails go up an’ down,
Like pirate-ships abaft the hill:
I’m sick of bein’ hinnercent;
So let us fly the Skull an’ Bones,
An’ show the world us boys was meant
For blood an’ guns an’ Mary Jones.”
An’ while we talked the sun shone fair,
An’ Mary give us kisses three;
Three for old Bill —all planted square
Acrost ’is lips—an’ three for me.
We promised her sweet-whistlin’ birds,
Long ivory an’ pipes of wine,
Boy-niggers, ducats, an’ two-thirds
Of all the things of Bill’s an’ mine.
Them times was good. I didn’t know
How good they was.—Great Nelson's
ghost!
Mary’s a linen-draper now:
M. Jones. Up George-street; next “The
Post.”
Bill took the shillin’.... Don’t forget....
(Wiv Johnston’s crowd). ’E was, they
said,
The cove whose long-tailed bagonette
Fotched Bligh a dig beneaf ’is bed.
So Bill’s up top. And I, unknown,
But still The Terror of the Sea,
Chop scraps of meat, mixed up with bone
An’ weevils, for the captain’s tea.
N.S.W.
HUGE McCRAE.


Amusements.
CYDNEY’S chief theatres.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
U-g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE LOVE RACE.
ROYAL: THE CALENDAR.
TTVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
OVERSEAS CELEBRITY
VAUDEVILLE.
TWICE DAILY, 2.30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
Amusements.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LT D.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE MIKADO
Missing Friends.
Re M. A. E. HOLMAN —Deceased.
W7ILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of
W ALFRED FULLER HOLMAN (son
of Samuel Bellamy Holman and Hannah
Jemima Fuller), who left home
(501 years ago, and now aged about ei o iity
five (85), please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart.
Legal Notice.
yo ROY CHARLES LUKE ERASMUS Salesman
formerly of Spring Street Melbourne but now
of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife DAISY MATILDA
ERASMUS has commenced proceedings against you
for divorce on the ground of desertion. UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court of the State of
Victoria Melbourne on or before the Seventeenth
day of July 1931 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
STEWART & DIMELOW,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
A fair square deal is the only plan
To bring success to a business man.
Commercial thugs make patrons then
There’d be no rogues if there were no
Full value for coin will never fail,
There’s satisfaction to every sale—
For coughs and colds full value is sure
When buying Woods’ Great Peppermint
tools —
foolsi
Cure.
—Advt.
Personal.
ATTRACTIVE, refined lady (22) wishes
correspond with genuine, sober, educated
gentleman with view to matrimony; living
tropics preferred. —No. 220, Bulletin
Office, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The straightout and place totes at Rand-
wick declared more fine dividends on Satur-
day. Backers of Stately (25 to 1) in the Exeter
Handicap received £27 Is. fid. s.o. and £S
fis. place, in each case for a 10s. ticket
and the mare had won at headquarters at her
last start. A pound on Greensea m the
Flying Handicap would have brought io 11s.
from the s.o. tote and £5 Bs. from the bag
at the price (5 to 1) which most of his
backers got; another on Greenbird, who
dead-heated with Comanche in the Winter
Stakes, was good for £8 16s. on the
machine as against £6 15s. in the ring;
a third pound on The Czar (Nur-
sery Handicap) would have yielded £l2
2s as against £9 18s., bookies’ odds.
As for place betting, Flinders, 12 to 1 with
most ringmen, paid £4 for 10s. in the Winter
Stakes; and Nut Cup, second to Stately and
firm at fives with the bookmakers, returned
£1 14s. for 10s.
Since the Westralian system was adopted
at Randwick Government revenue has mark-
edly increased, in spite of the bad times;
and the wonder is that the proprietary
courses are not compelled to do as the
A.J.C. has done. Their present apparatus
would suffice for place betting on the equal-
division principle; and a few clerks with
blocks of tickets, rubber stamps and black-
boards could easily accommodate s.o. punt-
ers —there is ample unoccupied space m
existing tote buildings.
Raised 71b. for his victory on the first day,
Greensea again proved too brilliant for
Eulclare (2 to 1), who was on this occasion
beaten into third place by Auda. Green-
sea, whom Jones rides very cleverly, is a
capital advertisement for Greenstead as a
sire ; and so is Greenbird, on whom Pike stole
a lead which looked decisive, but Comanche,
desperately ridden by Pratt, got on a level
with him in the last stride. As they ran
the 13 furlongs in 2min. 44sec., it can no
longer be said that Greenstead has never
sired a stayer. The Czar is Manfred s first
winner on this side the Murray. A hand-
some bay colt, out of Chatelaine, a sister to
Tangalooma, lie put in a striking finish, and
in him Matthews, the bookmaker, has a
Derby possibility. ....
The meeting brought to light a couple of
good hurdlers, Dark Isle and Drake, but
the ’chasers were a poor lot. Indicate,
winner on Monday, failed to see out the
three-mile journey over the jumps on Satur-
day, and was beaten by Burraform (6 to
1), who is only third-rate, hour deadbeat
prads also finished, a hundred yards to a
furlong behind them.
* * * *
For Moorefield o'n Saturday:—
Flying Welter: Legislator; next, Bowery.
Moorefield Handicap: Flinders; next,
Antioclius or Lord Ivennaquhair.
Rockdale Mile: Lord Romeo : next, Mint-
age or Lord Ivennaquhair.
* * * *
Eccles is wisely giving Kendler plenty
of racing over the sticks to prepare lum tor
his Grand National engagement. In the
Port Phillip Hurdle at Williamstown Kend-
ler had list. 81b., 131 b. more than he will,
have to carry at Flemmgton. It did not
prevent him giving his backers (he was favo-
rite at 3 to 1) an excellent go for their
money, but he failed by a neck to concede
291 b. to Cen light (4 to 1), skilfully ridden
bv Wraight. Arcadius, Tresolaus and
Fernos (second to Ivendlcr at Flemmgton)
were among the starters but A was reserved
for The Locker (8 to 1) to fill thud place,
three lengths behind the favorite. They gqt
over the two miles in 3mm. 4-sec. Time
as good was recorded by Ocean Bound (9
to 2), with lOst. up, in the Maiden Hurdle.
He is a promising customer.
The steeplechase produced an interesting
finish, and one thoroughly enjoyable to
McShortodds. Madrid (who fell) and I atriotic
were the favorites. Patriotic was always in the
picture, as also was Punchinello but Tres-
sadv Rock (15 to 1) outstayed both, the
tiring Punchinello, who had set up a big
lead, beating the other for second place.
Tressady Rock, who has 9st. lib. in the
G N Steeplechase (151 b. less than at \\ il-
liamstown), was steered by Glcnnon Inkson
was on Punchinello —it was not his lucky
day. # . . . .
Duncan got off Lineage to ride Wood-
ehatter in the Point Cooke. Handicap. His
mount could only finish third to Harbinger
rr to 2) and Hasta, and to make matters
worse the stewards suspended him till June
30 for breaking bis engagement Duncan
is certainly having Ins ups and down i this
year, but this latest penalty will not fie
nearly as costly as that which deprived him
of the mounts on The Dimmer in the Syd-
ney Cup and subsequent races at Randwick.
r rhp smsnonsion did not tflkc offxct
offer the crack jockey had got Walter Scott
(2 to 1) home in the Esplanade Welter,
riding one of the finishes for which he is
renowned. Gesto, from Sydney, started m
this race, and was backed, but never showed
up. Evidently he was well sold.
* * * *
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Toolambool Hurdle Race : Kendler ; next,
The Locker.
Wanda Steeplechase : Patriotic; next, Tet-
cott.
He «: * #
Just on 400 to I—fSO Is. for 5s. —was
paid by the doubles tote at Victoria Park,
Adelaide, on King Quex (Licensed Victual-
lers’ Handicap) and Steel Guitar (Final
Handicap). King Quex was favorite for
his race, and Steel Guitar was one of a
field of 11, his s.o. tote div. (there were
two) being £lO 17s. for £l. A Sydney mer-
chant of doubles offering Oven 50 to 1 m a
case like that would be declared “black” by
the Sliortodds’ Union.
* * * *
“Gimerack” : The last but one of the Eng-
lish classics, The Oaks, was won by a
French-bred three-year-old, Brulette. Her
sire is Bruleur, and the dam, Seaweed,
goes back through Spearmint to Car-
bine. She had no particular record as a
two-year-old, but her people must have tried
her well, for she went out at 7 to 2. Four
Course, winner of the Thousand Guineas,
was second; she is by Tetratema, and
cleaned up most of the two-year-old prizes,
including the Gimerack Stakes at York, last
season. Both these fillies are in the Don-
caster St. Leger, and since this race has
often been picked up by ladies who have
not been at their best at Derby time, it is
possible Cameron ian, winner of the Two
Thousand and the Derby, may have Ins
apple cart spilled.
THE SPORTING CHANCE.
HOPELESS DUD: “Caddie! Do you think my
game will improve?”
CADDIE: “Well, Miss, funny things ’appen in
golf.”
R. E. Howie, for whom the weight flag
went up in Adelaide the other day, was for
many years one of South Australia s best-
known racing men, though of late years his
colors were never seen in action. As a
racing official he did good service for the
sport, especially in connection with the Jror-
Adelaide Club, of which he was a committee-
man for 27 years. Born in Melbourne 7U
years ago, he came to Adelaide at 25, and
carried on business there to the time of his
death.
* * * *
“White Ash” : Some persons who propose
to be cremated after death leave instruc-
tions that their ashes shall be preserved or
planted somewhere or other, or tossed over-
board at sea, or scattered to the winds ot
heaven —there’s no accounting for post-
mortem tastes. Many like to think (and pos-
sibly die happier for thinking) that a certain
amount of sober merry-making will accom-
pany these final obsequies. But a York-
shire lady who died the other day struck an
entirely new idea. Her ashes were to be
scattered at or near the water-jump at the
local racecourse before the day’s pro-gramme
began (not an altogether pleasant thought
for the steeplechasers, if they knew of the
ceremony), and a wish was intimated that
the mourners should afterwards divert them-
selves by backing favorites with the lady s
favorite I key Mo. The deceased seems to
have had an idea that the results of such
wagering would tend to make the funeral
party more cheerful, but as the favorites
perversely and monotonously went down it
may very well have had the opposite effect.
Except, of course, with the bookmaker, who,
after all, may have been the sincerest mourner
of the lot.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Kid Rooney (9st. 71b.) and Young Halli-
day (9st. 5-jib.) staged one of the most
exciting battles witnessed at Melbourne foi
many a day. For 13 rounds the lads ex-
changed heavy punches. Rooney s footwork
was smart, though he made little effort to
avoid Halliday’s straight left, which kept
piling up points for the promising Tasmanian.
Twice Rooney went through the ropes m ms
anxiety to administer a knockout with the
right Finally Ilalliday caualit him with a
beautifully-timed left downstairs as he was
coming out of a crouch, and the referee
counted 10 seconds over the prostrate Rooney.
Fighting with bulldog tenacity and grey-
hound speed, Bobby Delaney (9st. 131 b.)
made short work of Roy Storey (lOst. 21b.)
at Leichhardt last Friday. Delaney rushed
over at the bell and belabored his opponent
with both hands, dropping Storey with a right
uppercut five seconds before the first round
finished. As the second round tuned m,
Delaney again rushed and a flurry of fasts
won him another knockdown. Storey stag-
gered upright, but was soon upset tor the
third time. Delaney got the decision on a
technical k.o.
Hi * * l '
Plenty of stoush minus science was seen
in the three 10-rounders which featured
another popular programme at Sydney
Stadium. Len Boon (9st. 91b.) seemed cer-
tain to stop Alan Edgecock (9st. 121 b.)
when he twice floored his man in the first
round, but Edgecock roughed his way to a
points win. Ern Evans (Bst. 51b.) stopped A 1
Price (Bst. 81b.), as the result of a gashed
eyebrow, in the sixth round o* their scrap,
and Billy Cooper (Bst. 131 b.) fought
another draw with Harry Mack (Bst. J.—lb.).
* * * *
“Hotham”: Yal Quirk, who has retired
from the referee’s job at Melbourne Stadium,
has put through over 10,000 scraps since he
started in 1915. A fine amateur boxer, he
at one time held the
Victorian welter and
middle titles, while he
was runner-up in the
heavy division to Joe
Lang, brother of Bill
of that ilk.
* *
“Mitt Shover” : The
Cleveland (U. S. A.)
Boxing Commission,
which is handling the
fight between Strib-
ling and Schmeling, has
fixed unusual condi-
tions, which are, how-
ever. not surprising,
considering the fiasco
in which the German
“won” his title from
Sharkey. If either
fighter claims a foul
he is to be medically
examined, and if he
cannot continue the
affair will be taken as
“no contest.” If he is
able to go on after five
minutes’ rest but de-
clines to do so, a tech-
nical k.o. will ,be given
against him, and he
will lose the purse. "The new rule will
eliminate one of the most obiectionable fea-
tures of boxing, and one that is as popular
with beaten boxers in Australia as it is else-
where.
Footbrawl
The chief Yic. League game on Saturday
happened at Geelong before 18,200 spec-
tators, who paid £531 11s. 6d. at the turn-
stiles to see the Hubbites, always strong
at home, hand the Richmond Tigers then
first defeat this season. Play was very fast
and clever, considering the moist state ot
the ground. Towards the end Geelong un-
wound a series of dashes that left it with
87 points to Richmond’s 60. In the city
Collingwood and Melbourne drew 26,300 per-
sons to the M. C. Ground; the gate was
£647. Notwithstanding the sloppy ground,
marking was unusually good, and the game
was attractive altogether. In the last gut-
ter the Red Legs were several points ahead,
but thereafter ’Wood’s determination forced
4 swift goals and the final tally was Wood,
71 • Melb., 54. Knowing how hard lvilda
is to beat on its own ground, the. Carlton
Blues wasted no time, and at the finish Larl-
ton had 90 to St-. Kilda’s 59. Hawthorn
pleased its supporters by going out to Essen-
don and compassing its first victory this
season, 80 to 60. South beat Fitzroy,
111 to 98; and Footscray walloped North,
86 to 43.
* * * *
Since each side had a match in hand, bar-
rackers expected to see a rattling game in
the third go between Queensland and N.S.W.
at Sydney Sports Ground. They were disap-
pointed, for, though the play on occasions
was attractive enough, it never rose to the
standard of the two previous matches.
Queensland showed nothing like the sparkle
and dash which marked its victory m the
King’s Birthday game, while the Sydney
men, though improving on their showing on
that day, were far from being as clean-cut
and decisive as on the opening day.
scores showed N.S.W. the winners by 28 to
6, the Blues scoring 6 tries and o goals t
2 tries. To do the visitors justice, they hau
just completed a long motor journey to fcyo-
ney from Young, where they had been play*
ing a mid-week match. Nevertheless they
showed no signs throughout the game or
holding the local men, their tackling being
very half-hearted at times, while they weie
outpaced forward and back. < Concerted move-
ments by the visitors were rare, and taulty.
handling was not improved by the determined
spoiling tactics of the Welshmen, Edwairn
alone of the Queensland backs lived up to
reputation ; apart from him, the back woi"
was poor. One or two of the forwards were
passengers, though Christie, a new break-
away, justified his selection. The home to-
wards, with Brogan and Prigg always up.
worried the opposition sorely, while Duncan
again gave his backs plenty of the ball, Owen.
Norman and co. making full use or i .
Queensland will have to rearrange the team
for the matches in Brisbane if the Maroons
are to have any chance of redeeming them-
selves.
:J: 4* * *
“Jowler”: In spite of “cross-me-chest"
promises and undertakings the professional
League football clubs in the North of Lng-
land persist in pinching star players trom
the followers of the sister code in Australia.
The latest to take on the life of a football
gladiator in Lancashire and Yorkshire is the
brilliant N.S.W. three-quarter Fificld, one
of the last Australian League side to visit
England. He gets £5OO down, a job £0 per
match for a win, £5 for a draw, and £4 for
a loss. It seems a lot of money to the aver-
age Australian League player, especially in
these hard times. The money has to be
earned, however, and if service is not satis-
factory there are ways and means of can-
celling the contract, as at least two recently
returned Australians who went to Yorkshire
can testify.
* * * *
“Gate”: The English Rugby League heads,
though accepting the invitation to visit Aus-
tralia next season, have not yet said any-
thing about finance. Knowing those
North Country hardheads, the writer will
bet that their terms will call for some con-
sideration by their Australian confreres. One
aspect of the tour which may safely be
counted on is the necessity for getting as
much brass out of the game as possible.
Writer once more takes out his betting-book
to say that the Englanders will insist on
the N.S.W. League returning to the Sydney
Cricket Ground for the big matches in the
Bridge city. When the League found, the
season before last, that there was no hope of
renewing its long lease of the S.C.G., it
petulantly threw in its hand and took over
the much less commodious Sports Ground.
Though the Rugby Union now is the chief
lessee of the Cricket Ground, it is open to
other sporting bodies for important fixtures,
dates being arrived at by mutual agreement.
The spectacle of the League swa-llowing
its pride and asking for dates agaics
the Englishmen on the big ground seems
assured.
* * * *
Rugby Union grade matches in Sydney on
Saturday again afforded unexpected reversals
of form. Manly, which succumbed to Uni-
versity in the previous match, had a tough
job to beat the little-fancied Western
Suburbs at Parramatta, finally winning o-o.
Wests have a fine forward pack, and this
took full advantage of the absence of Tol-
hurst, Herd and SheidoW from the Manly
backs ; Bland and Wauchope were also miss-
ing from the ranks of the Villagers.. At
the same time, Wests were without the inter-
state five-eighth Newton. Drummoyne had
a day out against University at the latter s
oval, the Reds scoring 26 to the students
9, and taking 6 tries to 2. Palmer was
in rare form on the winners’ wing, and in
Reid, of St. Joseph’s College, Drummoyne
has acquired a forward of class. MeShane
battled hard for the losers behind the paca.
Randwick slipped further down the pole.
North Sydney winning on its own ground
by 29 (6 tries) to 13 (3 tries). Eastern
Suburbs inflicted yet another defeat on St.
George at the Cricket Ground, romping home
with scores 34-16. Ross converted 5 of the
winners’ 8 tries.
(Continued on page 31.)
The N.S.W. golf championships opened
on the Royal Sydney links at Rose Bay
-with the foursomes, in which Keane and
Thompson, of Bonnie Doon club, retained the
title won last year. With 147, the pan-
finished two better than the runners-up.
Nigel Smith and Hector Morrison. The
winners returned the great score of 69 for
the afternoon round, equalling W alter
Hagen’s record for the course. Last year, at
Kensington the pair recorded a 68 m the
same 'event.
“Hoylake”: The French open golf cham-
pionship was played off at Deauville last
week, the winner being Aubrey Boomer who
finished with a score of 291. The held in-
cluded most of the competitors in the
British open, including Jurado, who barely
missed winning that event. The Argentmo
was fourth and Kirkwood fifth. Rufus
Stewart ran into 14th place, about his best
performance to date. Boomer, who has
now won this event five times, is an Eng-
lishman, but has for some years been
domiciled in France, where he is head
professional at the St. Cloud course near
Paris.


Bert: “How about a uttle exercise
Gert ?” 7
Gierttired. Ive. Been doing,
PHYSICAL JERKS ALU DA.Y,»
e>gRTI " GiOUF Z*»
G)ERT'. " No wearing iv\y new
Winter Coolies’ 1
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: In Victorian football a mis-
placed sense of humor is apt to prove expen-
sive. One of Footscray’s trainers found this
out the other day, when the League executive,
after considering the report of an umpire
and hearing witnesses, decided that he should
no longer be allowed to act for his club or
for any other affiliated with the League.
His iniquity lay in the fact that, in full
hearing of players and others before the field
was taken, he told the umpire that he had
a tenner on the match and that if Footscray
won the ump. would be on a fiver. The
offer was so evidently facetious that by-
standers took no notice of it. However the
ump. and the League executive thought other-
wise, with the result, above recorded.
$ * $ *
“Rover”: The N.S.W. Australian Rules
heads are not pleased with the attitude
of the Victorian League, which recently
declined to send a side to Sydney. The
Welshmen then asked the National Football
Council, to which al] the States are affiliated,
for permission to invite a side from the
Victorian Association, which is outside the
Council’s yard. This was also turned down,
the Council remarking frigidly that it would
have no truck with the Association and
wouldn’t let any of its offspring associate
with that body, either.
* * '!* *
“Stand Off”: The Australian Rugby
Union team which leaves on a tour of
Maorijand in August has had three more
matches added to its programme-—against
Taranaki on September 16, Hawkes Bay
on September 19, and Waikato four days
ter. The arrangement does not vary the
i'iginal itinerary. The tour promises to
fWa tough one, and everything depends on
whether every member selected can get leave
or'the long trip. Union players are finding
t difficult to get an afternoon off for a mid-
week match these days.
$
“Past Grammar”: As to schoolboy foot-
ballers who. have figured in their State
sides (B. 3/6/’3l), Queensland has supplied
another instance to add to the two mentioned.
This was Bob Wilcocks, who went into the
Queensland side against N.S.W. in 1911
while still at Brisbane Grammar, and car-
ried on for the two following years. lie
was also a cricketer of some note in the
pre-war days.
* * * St
“Old Q.”: Queensland sport seems to have
developed a liver these days. Some time ago
two sections of the Rugby League fought
each other bittterly to the accompaniment of
appropriate language. Then the cricketers
staged their feud, which is not over yet.
Now the Rugby Union has hopped into the
ring. Because he thought Brisbane players
had been unduly favored in the selection of
the Queensland side to meet N.S.W. in the
second match, W. J. Renwicke has resigned
from the State selection committee, on which
he sat as country representative. He comes
from Toowoomba, a stronghold of the code
which was narrowly beaten by N.S.W., and
he is of the opinion that more of the
Red Mud contingent should have gone into
the State team. Following this start, the
president of the Toowoomba Union, J. 11.
Roberts, has resigned from the State execu-
tive, and the makings of a pretty row are in
sight.
='f * ij!
After winning an easy match against a
combined Orange-Bathurst team at Orange,
the M.L. ’Varsity footballers came back to
Sydney to tackle a team of metropolitan
players. Though several of the inter-State
team were included as a stiffening, the
chance was taken to try some of the younger
talent, and this was increased by the last-
minute defection of four players originally
selected, including Malcolm. The visitors, a
fine team well combined by several games
together, had it ail their own way, winning
28-10. Perhaps the most outstanding of
their players is the Maori centre, Ruhu,
though Bush, Mackay and McKeclinie are
all backs of international quality. In the
forwards Deidrich, a Wellington rep.. King,
from Canterbury, and Peacock, of Auckland
and Otago, played consistently fine football.
Racquet and Bawl
“Sturt”: Two remarkable tennis-players
recently paired in a friendly match in Adel-
aide. Last, who has lost his right arm, is a
winner of championships in the Port district,
Hossack, who has lost a leg, has to keep his
right hand to use a crutch, and yet gets
about the court wonderfully; he wins more
club matches than he loses.
$ $ $ $
“Cut Shot”: The Davis Cup tourney got
as far as the semi-final round last week,
Japan beating Egypt, whose players, by
the way, are all Greeks. Then Britain outed
South Africa, and though the temperamental
Austin nearly fell down on the job, Perry
and Hughes—who did splendidily in the
French championships —made the issue safe.
The surprise packet of this round was the
defeat of Italy by Czechoslovakia, the
Bohemians winning the first three matches.
“Centre Court”: The) end of this year’s
Davis Cup is now well in sight. The semi-
final round must be completed this week, and
the finals will have to be worked off by July
12. Then will come the inter-zone finals
beginning on July 17, and after that the chal-
lenge round, which starts on July 24.
America is all set for the inter-zone match.
It is not beyond the bounds of possibility
that Britain will be the opponent. British
form was so good in the French champion-
ships as to encourage this belief. France,
with Cochet out of the game for this season
at least, and Lacoste rarely appearing in
first-class tennis, will have a lot of trouble
to retain the Cup, her first line being Borotra,
Brugnon and Boussus. The first two, though
showing well this season, are long in the
tooth from a tennis point of view. Boussus
lias never quite emerged from the second
class.
* Si! * *
“Centre Court”: Next week will see the
beginning of the All-England tourney at
Wimbledon. Nearly every country on earth
will be represented, with the exception of
Australia and Papua, for though Gerald Pat-
terson is on the spot he does not
intend to swing a racquet. The American
Davis Cup team of four will all be showing,
and the members are all hard nuts to crack.
Tilden, who won the singles last year, is now
a professional, but unless the new English
find, Perry, can live up to the hopes of his
backers, it looks as if Alison, Doig and co.
will supply the winners.
* >!' * $
“Rev. Knucklebone” : The time has come
for the heads of Australian tennis to emulate
the Walrus and talk of many things. One is
the falling off in attendances at the Aus-
tralian and State championships throughout
Australia, and another is the question of
nominating for the Davis Cup of 1932.
Even at the risk of losing another hun-
dred or two a challenge should be
entered. Otherwise it is probable that this
country will drop out of world tennis.
There are those who hold the opinion that
this would not mattter much. Others, remem-
bering the fashion in which Norman Brookes,
Anthony Wilding, A. W. Dunlop and others
brought this country on the map, as far
as much of the world overseas was con-
cerned, are of a different opinion.
The Nineteenth Hole
Ivo Wliitton, whose golf seems to have
developed the Cou6 complex, put up a great
performance in capturing the Royal Sydney
Cup at Rose Bay. Winner of every cham-
pionship open to an amateur in Australia —
he collected the Queensland title the other
day—lvo showed marvellous form, taking the
pot with three rounds of 71, 70 and 73. He
was handicapped at plus 4 for the 54 holes of
stroke play, with the result that his card
read 226. His nearest opponent was pro-
fessional C. Gray, 5 strokes behind with a
plus- 3 handicap. The Victorian amateur has
been playing extraordinary golf this season,
and it is a matter for regret that he could
not see his way to try his luck in the
British championships.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: I notice my friend Ichabod
Bronson has filed a petition in divorce. The
grounds are not quite clear, but I understand
that cruelty to animals or something is one
of them. Bronson has for long chafed under
the openly expressed contempt which Mrs.
B. has shown for his obsession with golf.
It has been her habit to accompany him on
his round of the links —a practice, I think,
which would justify homicide —and her
chief objection has been to the amount of
walking necessary. The other day Bronson
got into a deep sand bunker. After he had
been there some time, Mrs. B. drew a novel
from her pocket and sat down. I
tell you?” she said. “I knew perfectly well
that you could do all your playing in one
place if you liked to.”
❖ ❖ $ ❖
“Carnoustie”: The recent open champion-
ship of Britain has once more brought up
the question of what is a fair load
for a caddie. Many of the players, notably
visitors from America, where multi-
plication of clubs has reached its zenith,
required their lads to hump such weights
that a strike was narrowly averted. One
Yankee player handed the caddie assigned to
him a bag containing 23 clubs ! The youth—
or he may have been otherwise, for they
make a life profession of caddying in Scot-
land in many instances—weighed it and
declined the honor, thus losing his place on
the roster. Most of his fellows did the
same in their turn, until at last someone
was secured with difficulty and the promise
of an extra tip to take on the back-breaking
Dob The man who requires 23 clubs to do
work which demands half a dozen at the
most in the hands of a master is better out
of golf. Even TV alter Hagen, inventor and
seiler of fancy clubs, had no more than 16
on his list, and rarely used more than three
or tour of them.
* * *
“Fremantle”; TV estralian golfers shed
hitter tears over the departure of Sir Wil-
thp Sevell years Governor of
the State m the intervals of playing golf
lii addition to playing lie preached the game,
carrying the fiery mid-iron, in a manner of
speaking, up and down the land, and leaving
behind him a burgeoning crop of new golf
clubs. When his Ex. arrived in Groperland,
there were under 20 clubs in the land,
whereas there are now over 60. There was
a great rally of golfers at Fremantle to take
part in the competition for the Farewell Cup,
which was put up to mark the passing of
this genuine golf enthusiast from the country.
=i= * * *
“Prestwich”: It is a melancholy reflec-
tion on British golf that Tommy Armour’s
win the other day marked the eighth suc-
cessive victory in the “open” for an Ameri-
can. Tommy is a qualified Yank, however.
As a Briton he won the French ama-
teur title in 1920, and also figured with
the lilywhites for Britain against America in
1921. Four years later he took to the cash
game and has been steadily in the front
rank ever since. He is professional in
charge of the Miami Beach course in Florida,
where the game is played all the year round.
* * =:= *
“Atticus”: “D.” (B. 3/6/’3l), writing
of Daragon’s five out-of-bounds hits in the
Leeds tournament, falls into error in sup-
posing that this meant nine for the hole.
The penalty in the .Rules of Golf is stroke
and distance, but the penalty stroke is fre-
quently remitted by local rule. The sup-
posed nine for the hole thus becomes four,
which, considering the unsettling effect of
five out-of-bounds hits, is far from “rabbit’s
work.”
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: Though several devices
for automatic gear-changing are on the mar-
ket, the perfect system has not yet arrived.
Howard Hobbs, of Adelaide, who has left
for England with his invention, is confident
that he has evolved one which will meet
all requirements and is fool-proof into the
bargain. The gear is applicable to all
machinery where power has to be trans-
ferred from one part to another. The
inventor has tried it over several thousands
of miles in a light car without discovering
any defect. It is controlled by the acceler-
ator pedal, the turning of a knob putting
the machinery into reverse gear.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Victoria saw something new in
motor-racing the other day when the Junior
Light Car Club staged a meeting at which
the principal event was a “head of the
track” race for old G.P.S. boys. It
came off at Aspendale speedway, and was
won by J. Bernadou, of Scotch College, driv-
ing a super-charged Triumph from scratch ;
he cut out the four laps of the course in
4min. 4sec. Joshua, of Melbourne Grammar,
was second, and Junker, of Xavier, third.
All the big schools were represented in what
will probably become an annual event.
* * * *
“Torque”: The Irish Grand Prix, run
on a road circuit near Dublin, provided
another success for the baby type of car,
the winner of the event turning up in Nor-
man Black, who drove an M.G. Midget and
got home by llsec. on his handicap, averag-
ing 64.76 m.p.lx. The Eireann Cup, how-
ever, went to H. Birkin, his big Alfa Romeo
cutting out the fastest time for the 300
miles (70 laps), at 88.8 m.p.h. Campanari, the
Italian driver, made a great race of it until
a piece of flying glass cut his face badly. As
it was he was only two minutes behind for
second place: The race was run in a raging-
thunderstorm which added slippery going to
the other risks.
* * * *
“Gear Box”: The world’s motor speed
championship has been for some time a
bone of contention between America and
Britain only. However, it is now announced
that an Egyptian prince, one Djelal ed Din,
is baying a special car built for a shy at
the title. Whether he will drive himself is
not known, but, being a Gyppo, he will pro-
bably let someone else do it. Two Yanks
are also shaping up. One, a gentleman from
Hollywood, is building .something new in
cars, his machine having four engines, one
mounted on each wheel. They are, of course,
of the radial type, with which the Gnome
aero engine first made the public familiar.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australian delegates to
the Auto-cycle Council of Australia next
month will press for a change making the
distances and classes for Australian records
the same as those of the British Auto-cycle
Union. Many records will be wiped off the
books by the change, but the advantages of a
uniform system will probably outweigh sen-
timent with the council.
* * » *
“Differential”: Not many motorists real-
ise that it is only 28 years this; month since
the Rolls-Royce came oil the market, at the
same time as the cheaper but no less effec-
tive Ford. Royce, an electric-crane manufac-
turer, had three cars built in his own fac-
tory. One he gave to a business associate,
the other he kept for himself and the third
was lent to C. S, Rolls, a leading racing
motorist. Rolls was so taken with the
new machine that he induced Royce to
torm. with him, the famous company. Henry
Ford s essay was no less successful. Indeed,
l>.y all accounts the family partnership made
£8,890,000 profit last year, in spite of the
hard times. Henry himself says J. B. Dun-
lop, of tyre fame, is humanity's greatest
benefactor. He certainly has had a lot to
do with keeping Henry off the breadline.
Miscellaneous
“Mark Best’’: No one disputes Walter
Lindrum’s title to be the best billiards-
player the world has seen, but the game, like
cricket, produces bigger scorers every decade,
so that comparison of the modern player with
the past one is impossible. It might be
more profitable to examine whether Lindrum
is further ahead of his contemporaries in
the present day than John Roberts was 40
to 50 years ago. Figures suggest that the
pair are about on the same mark from that
"angle. Lindrum gave Newman 5500 start, in
last week’s time game at Sydney and caught
his opponent when each had 15.000-odd on
the board, scoring approximately 3 points
to the other man’s 2. Roberts had a stand-
ing challenge to any of his competitors in the
middle ’eighties to concede 4500 in 12,000, and
it was very seldom he didn't beat them. Con-
ditions have altered, but the ratio is about
the same; the old champion, like the new
one, had to score 3 to 2' or a little better
throughout.
* * * #
“Shrewsbury”: The Maoriland cricketers
play their single Test match against Eng-
land at Lords on June 27. They have been
doing so well with bat and ball against the
counties that the English side is likely to be
the best available. Jardine is to lead,
while others that look to be certainties are
Peebles, Sutcliffe, Hammond and Verity, this
last the Yorkshire slow left-hander on whom
the mantle of Wilfrid Rhodes is said to have
fallen. Unless something .goes wrong, it
hardly seems that three days will be long
enough for a definite decision.
* ❖ * *
“Tenth Slip”: Important changes have
been made in the itinerary of the coming
South African eleven with the idea of get-
iug in the maximum amount of gate money.
The Test set down for Adelaide on New
Year’s Day will be played in Melbourne.
Adelaide being given the fourth instead. Bris-
bane will be the scene of the first, and Syd-
ney takes the second. The last will be
played in Melbourne. The Board of Con-
trol has resolved to guarantee the Afri-
kanders £12,000 for expenses, and 10 per
cent, of the remaining profits, all in Aus-
tralian currency. The tour opens on October
22 against Westralia at Perth.
* * $ *
“Blue Chalk” : Curious lxow localised some
sports are. Take whippet racing, introduced
on the Westralian goldfields, presumably by
miners from Britain. The game made its way
east to South Aus. and then to Victoria, and
is still in vogue in all three States. There
is no evidence that it has ever invaded
Tassy, while neither N.S.W. nor Queensland
has known it as an organised sport, though
both have drawn heavily on those coal-
liewers from the North of England who
evolved the miniature greyhound. Yet whip-
pet-racing is infinitely more attractive than
tin-hare chasing, and, as nothing has to be
killed, is many points ahead of open coursing.
* * * *
“Ho Ki”: The Australian athlete seems
to bob up in all quarters of the globe.
Shanghai Rowing Club has elected R. G.
Woodhead, of Adelaide, captain. He is
described by the local journals as one of the
finest oars ever seen in Eastern Asia. In
Australia he was notable as a cox,
among his feats being the steering of the
Murray Bridge crew to victory in the inter-
state champion eights in 1913. Later he
rowed regularly for the club. In China
Woodhead put up an outstanding perform-
ance in stroking the British crew to victory
in both eights and fours events in the
international championships at Shanghai.
* * * *
“Blade”: According to a N.S.W. rowing
man just returned from America, the Yanks
are very anxious to see an Australian crew
in action at the 1932 Olympiad. The rac-
ing will take place in tidal water on the coast
near Los Angeles, and the invitation for-
warded to the Australian rowing authori-
ties includes an offer to supply the crew with
a new boat and special training facilities.
The rowing people are passing the invitation
on to the Olympic Council, but it is doubt-
ful whether the latter will sec its way to
acceptance. Cost will be high if a crew of
ten or so are sent, and money for individual
athletes threatens to be hard enough to raise
* * * *
“The Gaffer” : A good performance on the
track was put up at Sydney Cricket Ground
the other day by the N.S.W. athlete J. H.
Sheaves, who covered 4000 metres, 3
miles and 5000 metres in record time 1 for
the State. The 4000 metres took 12min.
121-sec.. the 3 miles 14min. 48 4-ssec., and
the 5000 metres lomin. 26 l-sscc.. the
world’s best for the distance being Paavo
Nurmi’s 14min. 28 l-ssec. The three-mile
effort was notable in that it displaced the
State record, hoisted as long ago as 1905
by that great English amateur Alfred
Slirubb. Victorian G. R. Hyde has the best
Australian figures with 14min. 35 l-ssec.


Under*
/Royal
Arrant
ToH.M
Kin^
Georg" l
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
leidi
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Cmampaghc
'JlariesHridsieciv
Reims
" MERCURY” BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
Nursing time
is Benger time
Nursing Mothers who take
Benger’s regularly during this
period go through the strain of
nursing without undue fatigue,
and the child benefits from the
enriched natural milk.
*
Food
for Infants,
Invalids and (he Aged
J7r*r:
i iff?
/
m
// :•
K
Ni
ur^s--
Benger's Booklet, post free, contains a concise guide to the rearing of Infants.
Benger's Food, Ltd., 350, George Street, Sydney.
A 265 k Solo Manufacturers: BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, England.
ŕ
ŗ
Bust. Centre back to shoulder. Shoulder
seam to elbow. Elbow to just past
wristbone. Length of coat under collar
seam to length required.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.
Tanners &. Manufacturers
♦9 YORK STREET (Wynyatd Square). SYDNEY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER.
Now is the winter of our discontent.
With no polo, and no jubilations, excepting
maybe a few school dances and the bridge
party of tidal-wave dimension upon the hori-
zon, the Sydney butterfly is more or less just
grubbing along. Even Government House
has been comatose since the Anderson wedding.
Perhaps, now that Downing-street has de-
clined to recall Sir Philip at the demand of
certain agitated politicians, the Game family
will pull up its slacks and get busy on a few
festivities. Though, even under their well-
known hospitable reign, it would be too
much to hope that a vice-regal party might
l’csemble the one told of in the Humphrey-
Bisliop revue: “Well, it was this sort of a
party —the morning after every corkscrew
in the place was straight.”
Randwick on Saturday was full of
inspiration for a poet or an artist. The
sky effects from the back row of the stand
showed Nature in her finest mid-winter
array; an essay in the Thoreau manner
could have been dashed off impromptu by
anyone who remembered enough of that
fresh-air lover to make the crib sound ori-
ginal. But anyone who went out there
merely to write about fashion drew a blank.
This Letter saw ladies who combined the
black satin shoe of' the night before with
tweed suits that suggested a tramp across
the moors or a morning with the guns. Some
of the fair who were active about the totes
looked as though they had got ready early
in the morning to do a bit of shopping at
Paddy’s markets, and had contented them-
selves with a dust-off before their afternoon’s
adventure with the horse. The stands had
an empty, downhearted air, and the ticket-
inspectors practically had a rest cure. The
seats of the mighty were stone cold, not a
living creature being in the vice-regal pew )*
the band played soothingly on the lawn, and
at times one Could almost hear the flowers
along the fences bursting into bloom. It was
idyllic. At set intervals there were races.
The Hambourgs caused a bit of a stir, the
effect of his desperado black felt hat some-
what diminished by his undashing ankle-
length black coat (coats of this length are
always worn by truly great he-stars). Mrs.
Hambourg, however, looked really lovely in
a fur coat, brown and very expensive, to all
appearance. A vivid young thing in royal
blue was Phyl Massey, who came with sister
Mrs. Ernest Watt; Jessie Tait, in useful
flecked tweeds, walked in company with the
Firm’s new star, Iris Darbyshire; Gretel
Bullmore’s slim height was girt in black,
and Mrs. Rupert Boyd and Mrs. Oliver
Osborne were among the well-tailored. Nan
Garvan, who shared tote tickets with Mrs.
Laidley Dowling, aired out one of the hap-
piest suits of the afternoon. It was of deep
Australian' sky blue. Philippa Stephen, in
absinthe green, was a cheery spot of color,
and Miss Kate Egan’s good profile arose
from dark furs.
Up at Victoria Barracks they struck the
loud cymbal, also the saxophone, last Friday
when the Staff Corps’ mess was at home. The
new mess quarters, formerly the Garrison
Hospital, were turned into halls of pleasure:
the mess-room for dancing, the billiard-room
for supping, with crackling fires, bits
of old silver and pink roses adorn-
ing them. Scarlet uniforms swaggered
bravely and completely swamped the Air
Force blue and the blue of the Navy.
Captain Duncan, of the Indian Service, was
distinctive in a khaki and scarlet uniform.
Colonel and Mrs. Hardie did the honors, she
in flowing black laces. The Heritage and
Bruche couples were the night's big guns,
and the rooms fairly bristled with colonels,
majors and captains. A commendable frock
of moire patterned with red roses was worn
by Captain Duncan’s wife.
Lady Game’s good deed on Saturday was
the opening of the Kindergarten Holiday
Home at Thirroul. Already 12 tiny guests
from Woolloomooloo are in occupation. The
gardens were gay with stalls and a marquee
for the great event, at which hundreds (many
of them from the city) were present. Mrs.
A. Roseby is the kind-hearted giver of the
house.
The wife of former Chief Justice and
Lieut.-Governor Cullen died last week at
Cliffland, the family’s Leura home. It was
owing to the critical state of her mother's
health that daughter Ailsa gave up her
place in Bethia Anderson’s wedding pro-
cession. The lady’s tall and ethereal
figure in almost invariable soft greys had
been gradually growing a rarer sight at
social functions for the past two years, but
in charity she remained strong till the end,
and quite recently she called in her own
home a meeting for the benefit of the Home
of Peace for the dying. The Girl Guides
knew her as their first State commissioner;
she was the first president of the Victoria
League; and the Bush Book Club, the Girls’
Realm Guild and the Arts and Crafts
Society were other groups in which she took
an active interest. Before the Cullens went
to live in Leura, their home was Tregoyd,
Mosman, where the native plants and flowers
were a feature of the beautiful gardens. The
dead lady’s father was R. H. D. White,
M.L.C.; her grandfather was Dean Cowper.
The dressing at the Arts Club the other
afternoon might have been Chopin’s inspira-
tion for the black-key study, for every second
woman sported that line in dress, hat or
coat, or all three. Still, if there was noth-
ing provocative, there was nothing sombre
about the frocking. Mark Hambourg and
Peter Dawson, the guests of honor, even
contrived to find the atmosphere exhilarat-
ing. As usual the musicians were treated to
some of their own brew. Talented Carl
Budden Morris was the pianist, while Eileen
Boyd, George Nassoor and Violet Rogers
shared the rest of the programme. President
Mrs. Florence Taylor uttered the words of
welcome, and Mrs. W. Stones and Mrs.
Manning Ryan were the afternoon’s hos-
tesses. Tall Mrs. Hambourg, who came
with her matrimonial bundle of chords, har-
monies, crotchets and quavers, had an
enviable collar of black Persian lamb on
her black topcoat.
The Flying Ball was the week’s big fashion
parade. It happened at the Wentworth, and
that hotel’s ballroom was crowded with the
gay and free, for of course there could be
no depression among a crowd where every
second man and a good percentage of the
women looked forward to a rise the next
morning. This Letter liked the skin-fitting
frocks of the moment that bloomed on many
a girl, the dash of Air Force blue uniforms
with medals attached, and the azure flag
inscribed with the names of the war fronts
on which the Flying Corps fought. This
floated from the balcony, brave with the
memory of gallant deeds. Sir Philip Game
was absent from the revels but Aide Gifford
supplied the Government House flavor. He
was with the George Hartmans’ party, and
as George Hartman is the club’s president
the table was decked with a basket brimming
with dark red roses, tied up with
red, dark blue and light blue ribbons —
the club’s colors. Black chiffons gemmy
with diamente were worn by the blonde
Mrs. Hartman; Mrs. Garnet Malley in black
and white velvet plus a slice of ermine was
one of the night’s outstanding dressers. Major
de Havilland was in this group, as were
Dr. Isabel Browne and Flight-Lieutenant
Ulm and his wife. Mrs. Kingsford Smith
was there with her air lord; she was glit-
tersome in silver lame, topped by an ermine
coat. Mrs. John Terry, the Folletts, the
Hammonds and Rupert Kings were other
sky-scraping personalities of the night; while
variety was added by the arrival of those
paladins of the billiard table, Walter Lin-
drum and Tom Newman, who joined the
party presided over by secretary J. Win-
slow and Mrs. Winslow.
Dorothea Mackellar, whose poetry is
known throughout Australia, is busy found-
ing a Sydney
branch of the
P. E. N. Club.
Poets, play-
wright s,
editors, essay-
ists and novel-
ists are eligible
for member-
ship, and the
subscription is
within reach
of even the
Australian of
the species.
The P.E.N.
is a dining
club. (The
Girl in the
Flat Opposite
says wouldn’t
it be better to
call it the
trough?) So
many dinners
are given during the year, and at these
the members meet and scalp the cutlet
of sociability. John Galsworthy is the
president of the English Penners, and there
are centres in every large country, and
even in far-off small ones like Czecho-
slovakia, Iceland and Latvia. H. G. Wells,
Rebecca West and John Drinkwater are a
few of the celebrities on the committee
of the London club, which dines at the
Cafe Royal, Regent-street, W.
Earl Beauchamp of the twinkling eye is
about to play a new part, that of respondent
in a divorce suit. Australians who knew the
Earl when he was Governor of N. S. Wales,
and those who met him last year during his
visit to Australia, are sorry for the family
friction, for Lord Beauchamp is enormously
popular. The Countess was Lady Lettice
Grosvenor before her marriage; the pair
have been married 29 years, and there are
three sons and four daughters.
Rosemary Alice Osborne is another Aus-
tralian who has become a citizen of England
by marriage. Rosemary, daughter of the
Harry Osbornes, of Currandooley station
(N.S.W.), was married in London at Holy
Trinity, Brompton, to Henry Gundry, a
son of Colonel Gundry, of Devonshire. There
was a great roll-up of Australians and
former Governors at the church, and at the
reception in the Granville Ryries’ town
house. Lady Stonehaven and the Hore-Rutli-
vens were among the guests, as were Lord
Richard Nevill and Melbourne’s Mrs. Fair-
bairn. Mrs. Harry handed over her daughter
to the young man, and Doreen Hordern was
one of the bridesmaids; others were
Sandra Shackell, Rachael Maxwell, Gwen
Byrne and small Julia Oakley. The bride
wore white satin and white lilies, her fol-
lowers white chiffon and wreaths of field
flowers. Honiton will be the Gundrys’ home
address after a honeymoon in the Austrian
Tyrol.
Here’s a hard-times version of Mahomet
and the mountain. A comparative new-
comer to Australia, Mrs. Bracegirdle, pro-
duct of the Slade Art School, is at home all
day in a tiny slice of Her Majesty’s Arcade,
and if you desire she’ll sketch you for 25., 4s.
or 10s. 6d. The price varies according to the
amount of work put into the pencil sketch.
Mrs. Bracegirdle’s family is lush with
artists. Her great-great-grandfather was
James Ward, R.A., animal painter to George
IV. James was brother-in-law to Morland,
and his son George was a noted engraver.
Mrs. Bracegirdle’s grandmother, Henrietta
Ward, exhibited with the Royal Academy
and had a studio in which many royalties,
including the Princess Alice of Albany
(later Duchess of Athlone) studied. One
uncle was E. M. Ward, R.A., who decorated
one of the lobbies of the House of Commons;
another was the famous “Spy” of Vanity
Fair.
This happy-looking girl is Linda Kuhl,
the heroine of the search party that set out
to find the six Boy Scouts who were lost
over the holidays in one of the worst bits of
Blue Moun-
tain country.
Linda, who is
lady cub-
master of the
Yaucluse Pack,
had, with
some com-
panions, just
completed a
four-day tramp
from Govett’s
Leap to Rich-
mond, and as
soon as she
heard of the
lost boys she
V o 1 u nteered
her help. With
only one day’s
rest in be-
tween the
journeys, she
started out,
carrying her
pack as sturdily as any six-footer among
the men. For another three days she fol-
lowed the track along the Grose River—which
is no track at all, but rough country with
dense undergrowth, and a succession of
rocks and fallen trees to be clambered over
just for variety. But this Australian girl,
with her marvellous endurance, never once
fell behind. Her bushcraft and previous
experience were of untold value to the party,
and when camp was made she did her whack
of the camp work. She ended up fit as a
fiddle and as cheerful as when she started.
When Linda isn’t busy with her Cubs she is
a physical-culture teacher. Monteitli made
this picture.
Not many schoolmasters have the joy of
hatching two poets in their literature classes.
The late Brother Wilbred, of St. Joseph’s
College, gave to Australia two of her best-
loved singers, Rod Quinn and E. J. Brady.
Brother Wilbred was born at Moruya 73
years ago, and hand in hand with his know-
ledge and love of the classics went a love
and knowledge of his own country. Before
he went to St. Joseph’s he taught at St.
Pat’s High and the Marist Brothers’ High,
and it was the Harrington-street school that
Rod had in mind when at the graveside of
his old teacher he was inspired to this
valedictory;—
Bowed heads bared to a west wind cool,
Youth recalling, from sorrow free,
. Back let us troop to that old-time school,
Back together in memory.
While there seated awhile we seem,
Books wide open, and tasks begun,
In through a window strays a beam,
Thronged with motes, from the morning sun.
There motes, lit for a little space,
Whirl and circle in dancing bands,
While before us with kindly face,
Helpful and wise, our master stands.
Lover of flower and bird and wave!
Lover of rain and dew and wind!
You, who lie in your new-dug grave,
Love, love lasting, have left behind!
The war may rage as to whether Ham-
bourg plays Beethoven or Chopin the better,
but everybody just sighs with sensuous en-
joyment of his Liszt. “Campanella” on
Saturday night circled the Town Hall with
a dazzling necklet of starry gems. It• "
a great niglit. Peter Dawson sang like an
archangel (at least, one supposes arena g
are bassos), the place was packed to the c _c.
delier, and all the radiators were womn».
Portrait-painter John Longstaff sat opnle
and handsome beside Mrs. Tom
Morgan O’Neill, whose knowledge ot VhoP 1 . 11
equals his knowledge of law, was with ms
wife among the front-seaters. Mrs. 1 08
was there with her Roland, who in h_
youth appeared on many a concert platroii
with Peter Dawson; Mayoress -Jackson
brought her girls; Government House was
represented by a sizeable party ; and manage i
Jack Griffiths’s smile worked overtime all
through the night.
Queensland’s letter; —
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went to the All
British night at the Plaza to see the naval picture
“The Middle Watch.” In the vestibule members of
the ex-imperial Association made a guard of honor.
W. G. Forrest-Pearson sang “Dan Cupid” from
Merrie England, and “You In a Gondola.” The
proceeds go to charities.
This week Mrs. W. 11. Groom, widow of the fiist
Federal member for Darling Downs and mother of
Littleton Groom, kept her 93rd birthday.
His Majesty’s was packed for the opening matinfie
and evening performance of “The Merry W idow.
Old playgoers compared the performance favorably
with that of 25 years ago when Florence Young was
in Romola Hansen’s part of Natalie and Andrew
Iligginson was Danilo. Dorothy Brunton has not
played Sonia before, but she has seldom appeared to
more advantage.
At Ascot Mrs. Cadell Garrick wore a white-
patterned navy cr&pe de Chine; Mrs. Isaac Moore
was in brown; Mrs. N. A. H. Campbell chose brown
with a white pinspot; Mrs. E. K. Tully wore navy
blue, with collar and cuffs of beige; Mrs. T. A.
Spence had a black-cloth coat over her capuchin
frock; Joyce Godsall was in almond-green flecked
tweed; Mrs. H. L. Archdall (whose husband, the
P.M., got a Birthday honor) was in black and
ivory; Neth Hutchison wore navy.
The Law Students’ Ball was in the Trocadero, and
Sir John and Lady Goodwin were there. A large
book bearing the words “Banishment of Depression
Act of 1931” was in the doorway, and through a
tear in the page the guests went into the ballroom.
The alcoves were prison walls emblazoned with
“Roma-street Police Station,” “City Watch-house”
and the like. Chief Justice Blair and his lady
received the guests. Lady Goodwin was in moon-
light ; the C.J.’s wife wore black chiffon with a green
and red design, and an evening coat of Oriental
lam 6; Mrs. W. F. Webb was in ivory moire; Mrs.
Cumbrae Stewart wore coral' pink mariette; Mrs.
Morgan Lane chose black; and Mrs. H. H. Hench-
man was in poinsettia red.
From the Trocadero, Sir John and Lady Goodwin
went on to the City Hall for the ball given by the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association. Brenda Vickers, in
white cr6pe de Chine with a posy of pink camellias,
was presented to their Exes, and the Mayoress,
Mrs. J. W. Greene. She was the only deb. The
Mayoress was in pink taffetas with a cherry design;
Mrs. R. M. . King wore black lace; Mrs. F. M.
Lorenzo, black georgette; Mrs. Tombs, white satin;
Mrs. Annand, black with a black and gold wrap;
Mrs. F. K. Brodribb, white mariette soutached with
gold.
St. Matthew’s, Sherwood, saw the marriage of
Norman Pixley and Jo Spencer. The bride, who
was given away by her father, was in oyster satin
and an old Mechlin-lace veil, with which she wore a
crown of orange blossoms. Mervyn Jones, a daughter
of the skipper of the Merrie England, wore primrose
floral taffetas for her maid’s frock. The feasting
was at the bride’s home. Mrs. Arthur Spencer
received in black mariette over pale pink ninon;
Mrs. Arthur Pixley (Sydney) was in sky-blue shot-
silk.
Enter the Speck :
The cheeriest spot on the race-ground at the
T.A.J.C.’s last meeting of the season at Elwick was
the pavilion at tea-time, where the president, Dr.
Lindsay Miller, entertained many damp and shivery
guests. The women who weren’t swathed in fur
coats wore huge collars of fur on coats of tweed or
cloth, but there were some very smart rigs at that.
In the throng were the Bruce Gibsons, Mrs. Angus
Butler, the Fred Grants, Mrs. St. Hill, the Leslie
Gibsons, Mrs. W. Wolfhagen, Mr. Tom Lyons, the
C. H. Ikins, Mrs. W. F. Hinman, Col. Lord, Jean
Tinning, Betty Ross-Reynolds and the Russell Ibbotts.
The Lieut.-Gov. invested two Hobart citizens with
decorations the other day: Capt. E. J. G. Bowden
with the Colonial Auxiliary Force’s long-service
medal, and Dr. Gregory Sprott with the Order of
St. John of Jerusalem.
Most of the dances and bridge parties of this winter
have a backbone of charitable purpose. The “Happy
Feet” Committee, eight girls and eight lads of the
village, ran a successful dance at Lindfield, Holebrook-
plaee, to buy boots for needy children. The
untouched supper dishes were dispatched to the
Repatriation Hospital.
Charlie Benson of the sweet voice, son of Mrs.
Benson, so well known in Hobart musical centres,
made a hit at the Launceston Easter competitions
and has accepted several musical engagements in •
Melbourne. The residents of Oatlands gave him a
concert for a send-off.
Cyril Cameron, eldest son of the late Norman
Cameron, who has been in the Speck fixing up his
father’s business affairs, has left for his home at
Kitava Island, off New Guinea, where he grows
copra. Among other Tasmanians settled in the Tro-
briands and at Port Moresby are Esme Rignald,
A. C. Hall and R. C. Oldham.
Mrs. Ronald Dick ran over to Melbourne to meet
daughter Peggy, returning from school at Montreux,
Switzerland.


SUGAR IS MONEY
PAPUAN RURAL PRODUCTS, LIMITED, Issue of
40,000 £3O Sugar Bonds. Payable £3 deposit, £l monthly.
Plantation selection 20,000 acres at Wanigela, Colling-
wood Bay, N.-E. Division, Papua.
Papua is destined to become the EMPIRE’S SUGAR
GARDEN—
THE CUBA OF AUSTRALIA.
Gold Values can be won from the earth but once —
SUGAR VALUES can be won EVERY year.
The Sugar Cane is indigenous to Papua. The Americans
use Papuan Cane to revivify their crops because it is hardy,
disease-resistant, and a prolific yielder.
In no place in the world can high-quality Cane Sugar be
produced as cheaply as in Papua.
By no other means than the Bond Scheme can the small
investor participate in the great industry—the production of
the world’s most universal food
The Empire shortage of Sugar is 1,700,000 tons a year.
There will ALWAYS be a market. The Papuan Sugar
industry will never have to depend on bounties and embargoes.
PAPUAN RURAL PRODUCTS, LIMITED, will spend
£530,000 on the erection of the LARGEST MILL OUTSIDE
OF CUBA, producing 60,000 tons of sugar yearly. The
return per bond will be £lO per year when the plantation is
in full swing. All fully-paid-up Bonds will be advanced £6
per cent, interest yearly till the first harvest is sold.
“As to Fiji, we have again to report
a severe hurricane heavier than that re-
ferred to a year ago.”- — Mr. E. IV. Knox,
Chairman of the C.S.R., at the half-
yearly meeting of shareholders. May (i,
mi.
“Papua is outside the range
canes that occasionally ravage
southern parts of the Western
■ — Hon. Staniforth Smith, in
Official Handbook.
of hurri-
the more
Pacific.”
Papuan
ř
QtP.S. Sets the Standard
FENCING wire
\g 11% FENCE STANDARDS
l#l»lfdiwmE STRAINERS
Autoscrew Droppers
H
fr
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES LIMITED^
of low prices. Tremendous turnover
paying cash in London—manu-
facturing ourselves and as sole
agents for various factories makes
it impossible for any firm to get
below us. This we guarantee. We
give you direct factory prices on—
K. WIRE.—We give you 20% dis-
count. Pig Wire.—We sell a line
of 32in. at 45/- (5 chains), roll of
110 yards.
TANK MATERIAL.—IOOO gal.
75/- with latest Triad fitting, or
with ordinary fitting 70/-
BUILDERS’ LINES
NETTING & WIRE
SEPARATORS
CREAM CANS
We supply everything from Stump Caps 26g., 10in., at 5/- do/,.
Galv. Iron at £26/15/- ton, including rim locks at 3/-, Casement
Stays, Hinges, etc. New Oregon Doors, M & T Full-size, 17/6 each.
Full details in our catalogue. All quality goods.
We are the largest suppliers of Netting and Wire in Queensland.
We mention a few prices:—
36in. x 3in. x 18g., at 18/4 roll of 100 yards.
Bg. Wire from 16/- ewt.
1 ‘2jig. Barb, 16/6 coil. Galv. High Tension Wire, £2l/10/- toil.
Our Catalogue sets out all details clearly for you. Write if interested.
We arc direct agents for the New Era factory. The very latest
scientific machine. Look at the prices:—
15gal„ £4/10/- 45ga1., £l2/10/- 22ga1., £7
60ga1., £l6 30ga1., £9 OOgal., £2O
Tinned Seamless. AVe take the output of Brisbane's leading factory,
hence you get direct factory prices for quality cans.
2gal. 3gal. 4gal. sgal. 6gal. Bgal. lOgal.
16/6 17/6 18/6 21/- 23/- 25/6 28/6
Less 10 per cent, for cash.
HORSE & COW RUGS
PAINTING MATERIAL
Factory prices less 10 per cent., and we pay freight on the
Rugs. Write for special list.
Sole Agents for Blundell & Spence’s famous British Paint—
all colors, 25/- gallon.
Aust. make, 10/6 gal. WHITE LEAD, 13/- 281 b. keg.
LINSEED OlL.—Raw, 5/3; Boiled, 5/5.
HIBISCUS LICK
£ll, or 12/- bag. HIBISCUS MEDICATED ROCK SALT, in 501 b.
blocks. Won’t melt like ordinary Rock Salt, £l2 per ton or 6/6
block. Butchers’ Coarse Salt, £5/10/- per ton or 10/- bag. Crude
Coarse, £5/5/- per ton or 9/6 bag.
SUPERPHOSPHATES. —For Fertilisers, £6/15/- ton. Nauru special
finely ground phosphate, for stock. £7/15/- per ton.
MOLASSES, 30/- drum.
We don’t charge Sales Tax on any of our goods.
Write for our large illustrated Catalogue, including Groceries.
We complete all orders in full.
WE ARE DIRECT CASH BUYERS ALL WOOL, HIDES,
SKINS, ETC. WRITE FOR DETAILS.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
Poverty
Piont
“Hamfat” : The life of Percy Walshe, who
lias died in Sydney at 59, was a tragedy
somewhat resembling Charlie Kenningham’s.
At a time when Charles was enjoying an
alcoholiday, George Musgrove remarked that
he was satisfied to pay the great light-opera
tenor (who was as good an actor as a singer)
for a week if he appeared only for one night
and kept his name on the bills; but Kenning-
ham was compulsorily shut out from stage
work, whilst still in his prime, by a deafness
which made him unable to take his cues.
Walshe was a fine actor, with an excep-
tionally musical voice; even Brough, with
whom he appeared first in Australia, re-
garded him as an uncommonly gifted artist.
Then, owing to an effort to carry on in spite
of a cold, he developed a throat trouble which
put an end to the brilliant career tnat seemed
to lie ahead of him.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Unless subscribers are
induced to find a few coins in their worn
pockets to keep it going, the “Old Phil.” may
go out of existence. The Royal Philharmonic
Society dates back to the Sydney Philhar-
monic, which was established in 1854 but
later became the Sydney Musical Union. The
Royal Phil, actually started 47 years ago,
and at its first performance of “The Mes-
siah” had the assistance of a lady then known
as Mrs. Nellie Armstrong, “a competent
singer who may do fairly well if she goes to
Europe for further training,” one critic of
the time declared.
“Cine Ma”: F. W. Thring’s first leading
lady is Ray Fisher, the young Melburnian
who recently made a hit as Jackie Co'ryton
in Wilkie’s excellent performance of “Hay
Fever” at the Tivoli. Efftee Films’ ingenue
faced the footlights at the age of seven, was
seen in the annual outbreaks of pantomime
in the metropolis, and danced with a J.C.W.
touring co. through various musicomedies. In
accordance with the correct procedure in
these cases she is being announced as the
Mary Pickford of Australia.
“Cauboy”: Stage realism? On a recent
evening I witnessed a performance of Beres-
ford Fowler’s war play. “Greater Love,” at
the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne. The Third
Pioneers, A.1.F., were in action at Bray-
sur-Somme. The army crouched behind its
sandbags, the machine-guns rattled offstage
and occasionally an enemy big gun roared
with telling effect. But I was most impressed
by _ the resultant shell bursts. These re-
mained stationary in full view of the
audience, like the sun when it was held up
by traffic-constable Joshua. They were very
beautifully painted on the backcloth!
“Jacky Roo” (Bond.) : Toots Pounds
(who, with Lorna, was the idol of London
music-halls some years ago) lias made a
spectacular return after a tliree-years’ dis-
appearance. She is startling and delighting
Palladium audiences by singing grand-
opera excerpts with a magnificent voice.
Toots’s exile was spent in Hamburg, where
she studied singing under Frau Schadow.
Another Australian, May Fisher, is to play
the Bowery Girl in a “Belle of New York”
revival.
“Jacky Roo” (Lond.) : Dale Collins’s
novel “Rich and Strange” is being talkie-
hed by Alfred Hitchcock and will be “Eng-
land's most ambitious film.” That, with
Hitchcock in command, means something.
Meantime 30 West-end stage shows repre-
senting £lOO,OOO have been withdrawn as
dead failures this year. Producers and
critics pretend to ignore talkie competition
and blame high rents and bad plays, but
the excuse is thin. “Min and Bill” took
over £12,000 in their first week at the
Empire; “The Broadway Melody” and “The
Big House” attracted £14,000 a week each
at the same theatre. Chaplin’s “City
Lights” is making a steady £lO,OOO a week
at the Dominion, Charlie having been guaran-
teed a £40,000 minimum.
“Adelphi”: The failure of Shaw’s first
talkie —and it seems to have done as badly in
London and the U-S.A. as it did here—was
probably due to his meanness. He lived
like a £lOOO-a-year man for a quarter of
a century after he had become a £lO,OOO-a-
-year one. He seems to have chosen
“How He Lied to Her Husband” for
the sole reason that of all his works
it was the cheapest to put on. Only
one scene ; furniture that could have been
hired from the Tottenham Court-road for a
fiver or so; a cast of four, and none of
them known outside the provinces and the
outer Dominions. In his determination not
to employ a mummer who would run into
big money he even ignored his own stage
directions; Robert Harris isn’t the beautiful
boy-poet of the script but a veteran of 30-odd.
My tip is that Shaw’s next film will have an
all-star cast. He realises by now, probably,
that talkie-addicts won’t stand the touring-
company mimes who delighted their parents.
“Cine Ma” : Efftee Films’ first releases of
Australian talkies will include a comedy by
Monty Grover, placed in Frankston and other
seaside resorts; a Digger comedy by Pat
Hanna and his co., and a more or less new
rendering of Dennis’s “Sentimental Bloke.”
For this actors are growing beards, the
camera being difficult to bluff in the matter
of artificial face foliage. Pat Hanna’s opus
is the entertainment which he took through
the occupied Territories, France, England,
U.S.A. and Australasia for 13 consecutive
years.
“F.S.”: A mild boom is raging in the
talkie industry in Melbourne, and local play-
wrights are beginning to think in terms of
limousines in consequence. At least three
producers are in the market, and though their
bidding has not reached the standard set by
Hollywood, which sometimes pays £30,000
for a play and then uses only the title, the
possibilities are exciting compared to what
the local dramatist has been used to. Thring
has just completed a comedy-drama by Monty
Grover, and the A. It. Harwood Pty. is en-
gaged on “The Spur of the Moment,” by
Betty Davies, who wrote the “Touch of
Silk,” amateurly performed in several capi-
tals since it was written a couple of years
ago.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: One bush-whacking
actor-manager has found a way out. He
knows his country districts well, and also
the idiosyncrasies of some of their citizens.
Leaving Sydney with just enough money to
pay the fares of his company to the first
billed town, he interviews the local Bung
who has Thespian leanings. The illness of
one of his leading men, he explains, has
left him in a difficulty, and wires to Sydney
for a deputy have failed, the men he wanted
having been snapped up by Williamsons.
Knowing Bung’s reputation as a top-notch
amateur performer, he would regard it as a
life-long obligation if he would take a part.
If luck is in, Bung may take the flattering
bait so thoroughly that he will not only
appear in his own town but will go on to
others, asking no salary, and even coughing
up cash when it is wanted. According to
this Hamfat, the country is full of publicans
who are tickled to death at the idea of
posing for a brief hour as theatrical stars.
“Jacky Iioo” (Lond.) : Tasmanian jour-
nalist A. J. Villiers, whose “Windjammer”
film was a pronounced success in London, is
off to U.S.A. on a lecturing tour godfathered
by the National Geographical Society. A
silent-film version of his windjamming odys-
sey goes with him and Villiers will provide
the talking sequences. His book “By Way
of Cape Horn” is the year’s best-seller of its
class in America. Another, “Vanishing
Fleets,” is due in the spring.
“Props”: Melba left £200,000, but it was
not all made out of grand opera. Melba had
that great asset of artists who appear at
Covent Garden, the advice of Alfred de Roths-
child. He invested not only her money b’V
also that of other artists, and never charged
them a penny for brokerage. Better still,
he would guarantee them a minimum of 5
per cent, on their investments.
“Shoot, Darn Yuh”: Boredom with the
increasingly American appeal of the talkies
is evident elsewhere than in Australia, and
in France there is a conscious effort to use
this fact to loose Hollywood’s stranglehold.
One of the most intelligent of French pro-
ducers is Rene Clair, who aims at excluding
dialogue altogether. In its place he puts
significant sound to supplement the panto-
mime of the shadowed players. In other
words, he uses noise—which includes every
variety of sound, from footsteps to motor-
horns—in the way a composer of music uses
it. A slight indication of how effective this
can be was given in the prologue to “City
Lights,” where speakers at the unveiling of
a statue made unintelligible noises. If
Clair’s ideas are adapted the screen will
once more speak an international language,
just as does a painting by Rembrandt or a
sonata by Mozart.
“R. Volt”: A U.S.A. politician, in his
anxiety to get into Congress, lately let him-
self go in a broadcast address in language
which the Courts subsequently decided
merited six months in gaol and £lOO fine.
Profanity has got on the air in Australia
frequently, but mainly through inadvertence,
when.the microphone has been eavesdropping
at a public meeting and caught somebody
off his guard. There has been at least one
deliberate ease. Victorian listeners, having-
been invited to put on their ’phones at a certain
hour one Sabbath morn, were petrified to
hear, after an amateur station had announced
that it would now introduce a very impor-
tant speaker, a stream of cold, hard, con-
scientious obscenity. The transmission was
abruptly cut off, but when it resumed the
same voice was heard with a fresh string of
even more lurid epithets. There was an
uproar in the press, but the authorities took
no action, accepting the explanation of the
broadcaster that the speaker, a parrot, had
been educated in a South Melbourne bar,
and that that part of its vocabulary was as
much a surprise to him as it was to the
audience.
“Cauboy”: With the downfall of the
Napoleon Mclntosh regime at the Tivoli,
Alex. Isaacson has gone over to the enemy
to the extent of becoming studio manager
for 3KZ, the Melbourne Trades Hall station.
Most of Melbourne’s factories of aerial en-
tertainment are manned by old theatrical
hands. During a recent visit to one of the
leading studios I ran up against four eminent,
tragedians, a one-time famous corner-man,
three ex-producers and an uncounted multi-
tude of lesser lights, from comediennes to
grand-opera singers. Most of them cast on
me the looks of starved souls. His audience
is the life blood of the actor. It is a poor
substitute for the rolling thunder of 4000
clapping hands to be told by the girl who
opens the studio correspondence that Mrs.
Kfoops, of Reedy Dam. simply loved that
song you sang last week and that you are
bringing thoughts of home to a lonely Aus-
tralian on the palm-fringed island of Yapp.
“Elderly Infant”: Although you wouldn’t
think so to listen to his marches, John Philip
Sousa is, officially, one of the most serious-
minded of men. When his band was tour-
ing this end of the world I, being then a
reporter, was sent along to interview him.
His flapper daughter was present, and I got
a lot more fun and a lot more copy out of
her than out of her dad. Sousa had some-
thing cooked up all ready for newspaper men
—I think he had rehearsed it so often that
he had it letter-perfect—all about band
organisation in Amurrica and the ennobling
influence of music, and if you asked him a
question outside that gamut he didn’t seem
to hear and went on with the oration.
Miss Sousa sensed that I wasn’t getting the
sort of story I wanted, and she butted into
the conversation. “Pop!” she said. Her
sire, well in his stride, took not the slightest
notice. “Pop!” she yelled. “Yes, puss,” he
replied mildly. “Can that solemn stuff an’
press the button!” He obeyed. Ice and other
things were brought, another sort of ice was
broken, and we had what the daughter
described as a “real folksv talk,” in which
she took her full share. Pop and daughter
under the influence of lemonade, told 20
stories, all good, and I went away with one
of the best news yarns I ever hauled in. One
of his bandsmen told me that Sousa was a
whale of a disciplinarian, but “one of the
kindest-liahted guys that ever trod Gahd’s
green earth.” I can believe it.


Sleek hair
Make your hair sleek, soft and
lustrous by feeding its dry,
weakened roots with the rich,
pure nourishment of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil every day.
as
O f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
Dr grey hair.
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
J. H. & CO.
Lang’s £5OO-a-year Bluff.
Scullin and Theodore have changed their
tactics but not their hearts.
They dread a double dissolution, and
are now sparring for time.
Read last Saturday’s “Barrier Miner,”
the Great Broken Hill Daily Paper,
Supreme in the Far West.
Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Ten Rooms
[?] C[?]tr[?] [?] for [?]
[?]ley [?]Nunn, [?]
So[?]
A pantomime in tabloid was a feature of
the National Gallery students’ revel at St.
Peter’s Hall, Eastern Hill. “The Prince of
Silver-fish, or Tripe Triumphs,” unfolded
the story of a butcher’s boy who, by slaying
with treacle the silver-fisli that infested King
Marmaduke’s palace, won the hand of his
fair daughter. Moilie Hill wrote the libretto
and was the fairy queen; H. Fields sup-
plied the lyrics, and Hilda Meadows fur-
nished some of the jazz numbers. The stag-
ing of course was done by the students,
and the dressing w r as culled from all periods
with charming impartiality. Bebe Timmins
as the Princess sported a cloud of genuine
golden hair. Jean Pearson was principal-
boy Egbert. A frolicsome ballet of six
maidens and three youths gave a clever bur-
lesque of tap-dancing. The audience looked
like the chorus of a revue and seven assorted
grand operas, and the jollo was enjoyed
by all.
A cabaret dance at the Rex for the
Tweddle Babies’ Hospital was secretaried by
Lynette Young, who danced in vellum-toned
lace. Alys Hutchings, in a gown of petunia-
mauve hue, was treasurer. Mrs. T. Rand,
Mrs. F. S. Grimwade, Aubrey Dye ana Mrs.
E. Mackay were on the committee. Mrs.
J. T. Tweddle and her daughter Shirley
were there.
The committee of the Melbourne District
Nursing Society, headed by the president,
Mrs. G. G. Henderson, gave a bridge party
on Friday afternoon, with bazaar side-lines,
as a means of raising funds for the furnish-
ing of a new wing of the After-care Home
in Victoria-parade. In the evening the
Junior Auxiliary ran a combined dance and
card party in the Marion Boothby ward'.
Lady Somers came in black chiffon with
white fur cheering her black velvet coat.
Lynette Henderson, Violet Tivey and Edna
Lowe were the hon. secs. The mural deco-
rations depicting the fairy story of Hansel
and Gretel which decorate the ward were
greatly admired. Jessie Traill painted them.
Mrs. Harry Emmerton gave a bridge party
at Raveloe for the friends of her grand-
daughters Elaine and H'ersey Brookes before
they set out with her on their motor-trip to
Queensland for Jessie Groom’s wedding. Mrs.
Emmerton, whose black velvet gown had a
glint of crystal, had Mrs. J. A. Gilruth, Mrs.
T. Laby and Mrs. F. W. Eggleston at her
table. The elder of the two school-girl hos-
tesses wore a dainty black lace frock with
a short coat featuring white fur, Hersey
sporting white satin with a touch of blue
about the bolero jacket.
The Lud Mayor’s Ball, staged a couple
of months earlier in the season than usual
so that it might serve as a farewell to Lord
and Lady Somers, was the last hop given
by Mayor and
Mayoress Lux-
ton in a civic
capacity. It
was a brilliant
show at which
close on 3000
looked down
from crowded
galleries upon
the well-filled
ballroom.
Naval, military
and Air Force
uniforms
added color to
the scene, and
subdued pink
lights fell
kindly on
feminine com-
plexions from
lamps that
were mingled
amid festoons of greenery around the balconies.
The stage was transformed into a garden,
a backcloth depicting flowering gums hiding
the panelled setting of the organ. A foun-
tain filled the centre background of the
terraced plot, and real cinerarias bordered
with salvia made a bright display. Poin-
settias were massed around the v.-r. dais.
The guard, a company of the 6th Battalion,
City of Melbourne Regiment, was reviewed
within the hall instead of in the vestibule,
as has hitherto been the custom. On to
the polished floor into a roped-off square
inarched the khaki-clad soldiers, with the
King’s colors flying and headed by the band.
Aldermen and councillors, with their women-
folk, then advanced to the dais, the civic
fathers, resplendent in ceremonial array of
black, freshly-laundered lace ruffles and
jabots, and shoe buckles a-shining.
Premier Hogan and his wife were among
the guests, with the Frank Clarkes and the
o- M. Bruces. Wearing his fur-trimmed
robe.s and chains, Mayor Luxton, accom-
panied by the Mayoress, who was in black
velvet the picture by Lafayette adjoins this
paragraph—escorted their Exes., with Lieuten-
ant-Governor Irvine and his lady, when the
stage was all set. The Governor, who looked
natty m his very best dress uniform, cast an
eye of approval over the Diggers; the band
played the Anthem, and then, to the accom-
paniment of airs from “Lilac Time” by the
dance orchestra, the guests moved round in
caterpillar formation and grasped the out-
stretched v.-r. hands in farewell. Lady
Somers, who received a welcoming posy,
wore pale grey satin covered with jewelled
and beaded net and a necklet of sable. The
Irvine lady, who also carried a bouquet, was
wrapped about in sapphire velvet. Mrs.
Hogan, whose picture by Broothorn adorns
this page, chose a gown of vivid scarlet
velvet.. Mrs. Bruce’s white chiffon was
embellished with crystal and black beads in
braid-like form. The Clarke lady sported a
well-cut gown of parchment satin. Mrs.
Evans, who was there with her vice-admiral,
wore a coat of dewdrop-sprinkled chiffon
with her white satin gown. The Peacock
lady was in black lace.
The night being chilly, bridge coats were
worn by many of the dancers. Velvet was
the favored material, and blue, red and
black were popular colors. White fur wraps
and those of tinselled brocade were not as
well represented as of yore. Long gloves
were universal wear. A feature of the
apparelling was the choice of white satin
gowns by many elderly matrons, and very
nice most of them looked. The girls went
back to the Victorian era for their latest
evening accessory, a wreath of wee blossoms
worn across the head in halo fashion. One
deb., Heather Stein, in puffings of white
tulle, had tiny pink buds across her locks.
Her sister Laurie wore a coronet of roses that
matched her deep-pink tulle flounces.
Flow’ers also formed a decoration for the
shoulder of many a frock. A favorite com-
bination was black and white, dead white
flowers trailing over the left shoulder of
black satin or lace gowns—a fashion demon-
strated by Mrs. I. H. Moss and Mrs. Doug-
las Stephens among others. Mrs. Robert
Knox, who was escorted by her husband,
was in black tulle and pearls. The Argyle
lady chose russet-colored georgette and lace.
Other dancers were General Chauvel and his
lady, Major-General and Mrs. Coxen, iCap-
tain and Mrs. Benson, she in oyster-grey
lace; Professor and Mrs. Osborne; Mrs.
Allen Robertson, in cornflower-blue georg-
ette ; the Percy Blackbourns and the Harold
Schwiegers. Smart dressers among the girls
were Valerie Purves, all in black; Sheila
Morell, in pale pink; Nancy Mitchell, in
apple green with pink flowers in her
coiffure; and Roma Smith, who was
swathed about in dull gold satin. Noel
Clapp wore green gloves with a sapphire-
blue velvet gown.
The Institute for the Blind got a cheque
as the result of a dance at the Rex organised
by 20 girls. Among them were Jean Hayes,
president, who danced in chiffon of roseate
hue; Nancy Prahl and Mena McGrath, hon.
secs.; Carmel Forbes and Cath England, who
checked finances; and Mavis Dow, wearing
petunia-colored velvet, who was ticket sec.
The Toorak and East St. Kilda branches
of the Women’s Hospital Auxiliary both
held bridge parties to help the hospital. The
gleanings were satisfactory.
In the interests of the R.V.1.8. a revue,
“Snapshots,” was staged at the Playhouse
on Saturday night; Hugh Huxham was pro-
ducer and musical director. The show was
rich in pleasant singers, and there was an
efficient ballet. Dressing and settings were
varied and elaborate. The audience crammed
the house, and flowers for the performers
made a great show in the vestibule. Mrs.
C.' H. Tutton was organiser, and Beryl
Huxtable hon. sec.
Singer Joseph Hislop and his wife, and
Isidor Goodman, the young Sydney pianist,
were given a welcome at the Uni. Con.
Bernard Heinze said nice things about the
visitors, and equally complimentary speeches
were made by Mrs. Herbert Brookes, medical-
knight James Barrett and Director of Edu-
cation Hansen. Mr. Hislop gave some sage
advice to young singers.
The Past Students’ Association of the
Albert-street Con. gave a reception to Marie
Bremner and other members of the co. per-
forming Gilbert and Sullivan operas who
had their early training at the Con. under
Melba, Fritz Hart and Mary Campbell. The
guests included Mary Hotham, Dawn Hard-
ing, Maisie Ramsay, Bonnie Roberts, Minnie
Petty. Dorothy Dawn. Rita Gibson and Alban
Whitehead. Fritz Hart, who was backed
up by his wife, made a speech of "welcome.
The Braille Writers’ Association, which
has 37 years of work to its credit, had a
yearly tallying the other day, and found its
147 members had transcribed 606 books in
the 12 months. The balance-sheet showed
receipts £1605, and there was a debit balance
if £lO3. The Association’s champion Braillist
is Mrs. G. Armytage, who in her 22 years
of membership has transcribed 475 volumes.
The Emily McPherson College of Dom.
Econ. has broken out in a new place. It
now has classes for the making of what are
technically termed “soft toys.” In addition
to cuddlesome elephants, penguins and mon-
keys, the class turns out some very faithful
replicas of Australian koalas, rosella parrots,
squirrels, owls and —of course—kangaroos.
The same designs are also being applied to
children’s nightie-cases, hot-water bottle
covers and tea-cosies.
The knot-tying of Doreen Dawborn, of
Brighton Beach, and Dr. David Officer
Brown took place at the Toorak kirk. The
bride’s gown was of deep cream satin made
on flowing lines, the veil being Limerick lace.
Mrs. Herbert Guthrie, her sister, was
matron of honor, joining a trio of brides-
maids, all wearing frocks of ecru-tinted lace
with embellishment of fur and wreaths of
flowers. Mr, and Mrs. A. W. Dawborn
entertained the guests at No. 9.
A medical matrimonial partnership was
entered into by Dr. Jean Slater, of Kew,
and Dr. Ralph Whitburn Nicliolls, son of
Mr. and Mrs. W. Nicholls, of Surrey Hills.
Filmy lace cascaded as a veil over the
bride’s ivory satin gown. Two ’maids sported
flowered chiffon frocks and blossom-trimmed
hats.
Mary Hotham, one of the principals in
the Gilbert and Sullivan opera co, at the
Royal, announced the other day her inten-
tion of wedding Dennis, son of Mr. and
Mrs. D. J. Abbo, of Toorak-road, South
Yarra. Miss Hotham, who is an ex-student
of the Albert-street Con., is a daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. James Hotham, of Yarra
Junction, who came to Australia from Eng-
land several years ago.
A knitting competition run by one of the
newspapers brought in over 8000 entries,
comprising all kinds of wearables for men,
women and children. Whether it is the cold-
ness of the winter or the depresh can only
be guessed, but knitting was never so popu-
lar in Melbourne before.
A welcome home was given by Mrs. W.
J. T- Clarke to her daughter and son-in-
law, Mr. and Mrs. William Seymour, who
returned from London by the Narkunda.
Mrs. Seymour, who was Wilma Clarke, was
also entertained by Mrs. Tennant Hunter,
for whom she was bridesmaid in India. Mrs.
Hunter is spending a holiday with her folk
in Melbourne.
Lady Somers said good-bye to the Red
Cross Society at last week’s council meet-
ing. The v.-r. lady has been president of
the branch since. she took up residence at
Stonington five years ago. O. Morrice Wil-
liams, Knight George ' Cuscaden and the
Miller lady voiced regrets at her Ex.’s de-
parture.
Alice Richardson, of the E.-S.U., led a
party of members to an inspection of the
Carlton Brewery. After having the processes
explained and sampling the brew, the guests
were entertained at afternoon tea and
listened to speeches from the brewery heads.
The Old Fintonians’ Dram. Soc. has given
a creditable performance of Cosmo Hamil-
ton’s comedy “The New Poor.” Russell
Lambic produced the piece. Principal femi-
nine roles were played by Pat Eckersley,
Olive Norman and Kathleen Friend.
Much sympathy has gone out to Mrs.
Claude Coucliman, president of the Women's
National League, on the appallingly sudden
death of her husband on Saturday. Mr.
and Mrs. Coucliman were leaving by the
Ormiston for Sydney on a visit to his mar-
ried daughter in West Maitland. Mr.
Coucliman collapsed on arriving at the boat,
the result of heart, failure. He was an
officer of the Public Works Department for
many years, and was a member of the com-
mittee of the Melbourne Football Club until
shortly before his death.
Walter Kirby, the tenor, has booked his
passage in the Mongolia for a lengthy visit
to England. Dr. Nihill, Jean Lewis and
Kathleen Malone engineered a farewell party
for him at the Windsor on Saturday, when
a couple of hundred friends of long standing
met to wish him lots of luck. At supper,
spread in the big dining-room, there were
speeches by Councillors Liston and Marks,
VIC. PREMIER HOGAN'S
WIFE.
Dr. T. P. Mc-
Inerney and
others, and an
illumi n a t e d
address was
handed over.
Mr. Kirby re-
called that he
had made his
debut as a
singer at the
Exh i b i t i o n
Building when
eight years
old, Sir Fred-
erick Cowen
playing the
accompani-
ment. There
was music and
dancing. Jean
Lewis, Merna
Stewart, Lena
Worland and
the guest of
honor con-
tributed songs;
Isobel Dun-
can l’ecited and Rene Bregozzo played his
fiddle.
Mrs. Maie Hoban is offering two elocu-
tionary scholarships to children of members
of the Returned Soldiers’ League and the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association, in memory of
her late husband, D. J. Hoban.
Mrs. Tom Lyons, of Hobart, with her
daughter Sybil and Helen Gray returned
from a short visit to 1 Colombo by the Nar-
kunda. With them came another Lyons
daughter, Mrs. M. J. Clarke, of Burma, who
will stay with her parents till the land of
her adoption gets a little more peaceful.
Speaker Peacock’s constituents in Cres-
wick gave him a birthday party. There was
a cake with 70 candles, with a silver knife
to cut it with and to serve as- a memento
of the occasion.
Painter Tom Roberts has left Somerset
House Hospital and is now back in his home
among the hills, being nursed by his wife.
Lorna Embling, who was injured while
hunting early in the season, is now on the
convalescent list. She was doctored for a
fractured skull for some weeks.
London and Paris have decided in favor
of the short jacket rather than the one of
three-quarter length, which, though smart,
has not so young an air. Dark blue is com-
ing more and more into the tailored picture,
nearly always accompanied by palest pink
in scarf or vest. Sport styles are again the
most popular wear, the most effective suits
having short coats of plain dark cloth over
contrasting one-piece frocks in checks, spots
or stripes, with the check most in evidence.
Nor must the waistcoat be overlooked in
talking of tailor-mades. These are at their
best in thick washing satin or pique—silk
pique for preference. When you wear a
waistcoat you sport a flower in the lapel of
your coat. This Chatterer saw among the envi-
able togs of a recent traveller a thin wool-
len dress in white spattered with black spots.
The same wanderer reports black dresses
with broderie Anglaise collar and cuffs
among raiment of the first order, and men-
tions that these days hostesses write the good
plain English “Please reply” at the foot of
their invitations.
Westralia sends a letter:—
Sir William Campion waved a final good-bye to
our shores from the deck of the Naldera. Twenty-
one guns fired on the Esplanade, a royal salute
outside Government House, a farewell in the parlor
of the Mayor of Fremantle and several speeches en
route for the Port were some of the last God-speeds.
The departing Governor and Miss Campion gave a
tea party in the liner’s dining-room to some of their
intimate friends.
In London this week wedding bells will ring for
J. E. I. Cairns, who got his science degree at our
Uni., and Eden, daughter of the Rev. Armstrong, of
Victoria Park. Mr. Cairns, who has been studying
at Cambridge, has accepted a job at the Carnegie
Institute, Washington, and sails with his bride for
the U.S. a few days after the wedding. Miss Arm-
strong, who trained as a nurse at Perth Hospital
and did pathological work in the hospital’s lab.,
went to England “on spec.” three years ago. She
landed a position in a surgery and lab. in Wim-
pole-street.
Another graduate of the local Uni., Dr. Stephen
Montgomery, is to be married this month in London
to Emily Turtington. He is now assistant radiologist
at the Middlesex Hospital and at the Brompton
Institute, and maintains a surgery in Harley-street.
The biggest dance of the winter so far has been
the Aero Club Ball. In Temple Court ballroom a
giant glider was poised over the stage while a mother
’plane with whirling propeller and a fleet of babies
sailed over the dance floor. Supper was in the
transformed garage beneath. Eight small girls in
pastel-tinted Kate Greenaways stepped a measu
great-grandmamma’s day, some nymphs in app e » re
disported themselves, and ballroom dancing w- s
presented in the correct mode by Linley 1 sol J
and Joanne Priest. Miss Campion smiled her approval
in black satin and lace; Mrs. Allingham was another
who chose black for her draperies; Mrs. Norman
Brearley’s frock was of sunset hue; Mrs. J. ■ •
Dimmitt pinned a gold spray to the shoulder of hei
black gown; two of the Hobbs girls chose respec-
tively gowns of ivory and black lace; aviatnx Miss
Tonkin flew emerald georgettes; bronzes and blues
predominated in Kathleen Moullin’s chiffons; tiers
of pearl-pink fluttered about Nancy Allnut; blue
and silver figurings ornamented Mrs. A. Kelly’s cream
satin; Milly Lightley was a scarlet flash; Mrs. lluim
wore black; Mrs. Max Butter covered her locks
with a white wig and herself with white satin ; Jo
Rigg wore coral-pink laces; Bonnie Spencer was in
oleander georgettes and Grace Thiel in sherry-red.
Bae Bick danced in buttercup taffetas, and Mrs.
Jack Stewart in almond chiffons.
Milne’s “Michael and Mary” ran to a full Assembly
Hall for three nights. Tom McGregor, as Michael,
an engaging youth of 1905 and a devoted husband
and topping father of 1929, scored another success.
As Mary, Dorothy Powell did remarkably well. Mrs.
Treadgold played the chatty landlady, Phil ■ Shap-
pere the thoroughly nasty first husband, Beatrice
Hassen the prim secretary, and Cecilia Brennan the
smart Violet, Michael’s first love. The show was
one of the Repertory Club’s best efforts.
South Australia’s P.S.: —
The subscription dance held annually in aid of St.
Mary’s Mission of Hope Home for Children drew a big
crowd to the Freemasons’ Hall. The committee
achieved wonders with the sale of tickets. His Ex.
arrived at 9 p.m. and was received by the Bishop
and Mrs. Nutter Thomas, with Mrs. Wheadon
(secretary of the mission committee), in the large
room set aside for bridge. The gathering was as
large as in the ballroom.
On the same night the matron and nurses at the
Children’s Hospital gave a dance in the out-patients’
department. Matron Florence Knight and nurses
Mollie Castine and Eleanor Crase received the guests.
The Mayor and Mayoress were present; so were many
doctors and their wives. A third function on
the same date was the Commercial Travellers’
ball held in the ballroom at the Adelaide
railway station. Married folk predominated
among the dancers, but gaiety in no way suffered
on that account. The Mayor and Mayoress, the
Premier and Mrs. L. L. Hill, and the Railway Com-
missioner and Mrs. C. B. Anderson were among
the guests.
The Alliance Frangaise held a social evening at the
Adelaide Women’s Club when Dr. F. C. Naegell
gave a travel talk on the Swiss Alps, Madame
B. P. Waite discoursed upon Venice, and there was
a debate (rather late in the day) on “Should Women
Smoke?” Men are scarce at these gatherings, so
there wasn’t much chance of the motion being
rejected.
His Ex. went a-hunting with the Adelaide Hunt
Club at Buckland Park, Virginia, when three foxes
were killed. Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Brooks, of Buck-
land Park, entertained members and their friends
at luncheon.
It was a very cheery house party of 70-odd that
foregathered at Mount Breckan, Victor Harbor, the
other day. There was a golf tournament for the
daytime, and bridge at night.
At the Catholic Subscription Ball held in the Aus-
tralia Hall on Wednesday night, 15 debutantes were
presented to the Archbishop of Adelaide (Dr.
Spence), after he had walked to the dais between
a guard of honor composed of the debutantes and
their partners.


Bank of Now Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets. I
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted. j
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 172 of 1931.
Between CAROLINA MAUD McGLASIIAN Petitioner
And GEORGE SCOTT McGLASHAN Respondent.
To GEORGE SCOTT McGLASHAN late of Tas-
mania.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Carolina Maud
McGlashan has commenced a suit against you in
this honorable Court and has applied for a disso-
lution of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or excuse.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the twenty-
seventh day of August one thousand nine hundred
and thirty-one and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the Petition filed herein may he had on applica-
tion to the undersigned Solicitor or his Sydney
agents free of charge.
Dated this First day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-one.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. J. CUNEO,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Dean Street, Albury.
Whose Town Agents are Taylor & Kearney,
Solicitors, 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
To JOHN AUGUSTINE McAULIFFE whose last
known place of abode was at Cavendish Road Coor-
paroo South Brishane in the State of Queensland
but whose present whereabouts are unknown Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane in the State of Queensland No.
274 of 1931 by Florence Bridget McAuliffe your wife
in which she claims a dissolution of her marriage
... _„j jj er p e titi on i n the said Court
it in or about the month of July
one * ne hundred and twenty-four you witli-
ted her and so deserted her eontinu-
lusly years and upwards prior to the date
. And if has been ordered that service
f Summons and Petition on you be
. ng and sticking up on the Notice
Registry of the said Court copies of
office copy of the said petition and
by the publication of this notice by two separate
insertions in the Brisbane “Courier” published in
the State of Queensland at an interval of not less
than one week once in the Sydney Bulletin pub-
lished in the State of New South Wales and once- in
the “Worker” published in Brisbane aforesaid and
by personal delivery on the defendant’s mother Mrs.
McAuliffe of Thomas Street Kangaroo Point South
Brisbane aforesaid of a copy of the Writ of Summons
and an office copy of the petition herein. If you
desire to defend this action you must within thirty-
eight days from the date of the last act done as
aforesaid enter an appearance at the Registry afore-
said and in default of such appearance judgment may
be entered against you.
Dated this fifth day of June, 1931.
[L.S.] D. M. O’FLYNN,
Deputy Registrar.
C. D. McGREGOR, Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
Heindorff House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
IJE WILLIAM JAMES BEVAN LATE OF KELVIN
GROVE BRISBANE IN THE STATE OF
QUEENSLAND NEWSVENDOR DECEASED.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled to the estate of the above-
named WILLIAM JAMES BEVAN deceased or any
part thereof AND PARTICULARLY ANNIE FRANCIS
a lawful sister of the said deceased are hereby re-
quired to forward proof of their claims to the
Public Curator Brisbane Queensland on or before
the Thirty-first day of December 1931. AND THAT
after the expiration of the aforesaid date the Public
Curator will proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased disregarding the claims of which he
shall not have had notice and of all persons claim-
ing by through or under them or any of them by
derivative title or otherwise howsoever.
Dated this Twelfth day of June, 1931.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane. |
Public Notice.
THE TONGKAH HARBOUR TIN-
DREDGING COMPANY, N.L.
A CALL (the 13th) of 1/’ (One Shilling)
per Share has this day been made on all
Shares issued in this Company, and will be
due and payable at the Registered Office of
the Company, A.M.P. Chambers, Elizabeth
Street, Hobart, on WEDNESDAY, Btli
JULY, 1931.
By Order of the Board,
H. J. WISE,
Manager.
Hobart, sth June, 1931.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN THE
MANUFACTURE OF NONPLANIFORM
FIBROUS ARTICLES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 5696/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Is
Pr —
lEtjeirmail
and
HAWAII, extend warm hands of
welcome to Australians in the
approaching winter.
Calling en route at Auckland and
Suva, the large modern Canadian-
Australasian liners have now com-
menced their Winter Excursions.
Special reductions in rates bring this
holiday with its variety and charm
within reach of every vacationist.
Excursion Fares:
FIRST-CLASS RETURN £75
SECOND-CLASS RETURN . . £55
(No exchange.)
Sailings:
Niagara June 25
Aorangi July 23
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
£anaidiian
HO STIRAILAS DAN
Visit the Beautiful Solomons.
Lazy Days for Vacation Delights.
A happy, carefree cruise to an ideal holiday land!
For rest, for play, for thrilling new experiences. . . .
colorful native life and customs, quaint
tribal dances, gorgeous scenery and
flowers, coral lagoons.... outrigger
canoeing, morning dips in cool jade-
green waters. And always you return
from exotic delights to the palatial
modern comfort of the
S.S. MATARAM.
Write for Leaflet No. 62/S.
Burns, Philp & Company, Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, etc.
mu
mmmssmi
' " .... - ' ■° f ";
Ask for
the “B. P. Magazine.”
II- per copy.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
r
ŕ
£7,500,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 .. .. .. .. £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
591 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—-from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
SHADOW SHOWS.
“D.”: One emerges from “Inspiration”
at Sydney Plaza with an impression that
what the talkies need most are new plots
and, above all, new performers. In this one,
j as in “Romance,” Greta Garbo is a member
lof the hetaerse. Nature gave her all
the qualifications, though she is understood
to be a lady of formidable virtue in private
life. Her figure, with its long, graceful
lines, is ideally fitted to .show off her pro-
vocative garments, and she has .the ravaged,
though still lovely, face and the hoarse
uncultivated voice of one who lias risen from
somewhere near the bottom of the social
ladder, and assimilated a good deal of bad
liquor on the way. As Yvonne, the artist’s
model, she again falls madly in love with a
large virginal youth, and again registers
secret charm by sudden, irrelevant smiles,
intriguing work with plucked brows and
tired, embittered eyes and voluptuous body-
movements. In the days of the legitimate,
when make-up was accepted as the Eliza-
bethans accepted a chunk of wood labelled
“This is a Palace,” the mummer had a
chance to character-act. The talkies have
pretty well killed all that. In “Inspiration”
Lewis Stone is an affable but heartless
French business man. (About the most
finished bit of acting in the show, by the
way, is the episode in which he tells his
mistress that he has no further need of
her services, closes the door gently behind
him, trips downstairs, his moral improving
with every step, and finds her body in the
street.) But Stone is identically the same
in the part, even to his clothes, as he has
been in all his other parts. And the same
applies to the rest of the fine cast. They
are themselves, which is a difficult thing to
be on _the stage, but they begin to get mono-
tonous.
The only other objection this critic has
to the play is that, like all its film-pre-
decessors in the same genre, it is based on a
sociological fallacy. The libertinse rarely
behave like Miss Garbo when their infatua-
tions go wrong. They have too many pppor-
tunities to console themselves elsewhere. The
photography is amazing in its beauty and
realism. Paris comes to life in shot after
shot. In the restaurant and boulevard scenes
the supers have been so carefully dressed
and rehearsed, and so much knowledgeable
attention has been paid to details —cars,
fiacres, tables, chairs —that the spectator
constantly gets the illusion that the photo-
grapher has done his work in a street instead
of on a lot.
H* *£•
“C. Ma”: Time may come when British
producers will have used up all the avail-
able material of Ben Travers, Frederick
Lonsdale and others of their school of humor,
and then they will start copying their former
successes, with serious results to their pre-
sent high prestige. “Canaries Sometimes
Sing,” at Melb. Athenaeum, is a case in
point. It is a delightful production, obviously
made before the English confectors realised
what a blessing they were going to be to
the bored film patron, gorged on Yankee
mediocrity. As laughter is almost continuous
and the shadows of Tom Walls and co. don’t
wait, half the dialogue is lost on the dis-
mayed audience, and it is no use going twice
to repair the omission, because different
audiences all laugh in the same places.
“Canaries Sometimes Sing” isn’t a screen
play at all, really. It is a straight stage
performance, photographed. Only the bril-
liant acting and the ebullient wit of the
writer could make it effective. But theatre-
goers are bound to get tii-ed of botli the
humor and the acting, as they do of ail
their fashionable favorites. It is to be hoped
that Elstree will be employed in the interim
exploiting the latest medium of drama along
the lines freshly laid down by French, Ger-
man and Russian producers, who regard the
talkie as an entirely new art form, as
revolutionary as Yan Eycks’s discovery of
oil painting or Newton’s explanation of the
law of gravitation.
* * *
“C. Ma” sends a Melbourne impression of
a talkie which has just- arrived at Sydney
State: —
“UNFAITHFUL.”
A Phonologtje in One Act.
[Ruth Chatterton is discovered in bed. There are
evidences of poverty. She has been out of a job for
three weeks, and has been declared bogus by the
Potboilers’ Union. Her director has dropped her
with the complaint: “You was artistic!- in three
conseklcitive plays.” The telephone rings. J
Director: “See here, Miss Chatterton.
I’ve decided to give you another chance. But
you’ll have to do what I say. Are you
listening?”
R.C.: “Yes.”
Director: “Well, see here. I’m plugged
through to the secretary of the Potboilers’
Union. You can hear'me but you can't hear
him. Now listen carefully. Good-day, Mr.
Riley. Ruth Chatterton wants to come
back. I got a play called ‘Unfaith-
ful.’ Yes, Muck? Of course it is.
All about a rich American jane who mar-
ries an English lord and finds out that he's
running around with her brother’s wife. Yes.
Well, the jane don’t want to hurt her
brother’s feelings, so she keeps her mouth
shut and just goes round being liis official
wife and having a helluva good time. That's
right. Monte, cards, cocktails, gets drunk.
Yes. Takes half her clothes off. Yes. Fre-
quently. Well, husband gets killed when he’s
out on the razzle with the brother’s wife
and the jane goes into the witness-box and
protects her brother by taking all the scandal
on herself, and then she marries a foreigner
who’s been hanging around on the offchance.
Silly? Yes, silly as a woodheap. Insult to
adult intelligence. Eh? What’s the point,
you say? I’m coming to it right now, Mr.
Riley. Miss Chatterton has given me her
word of honor that she will take the leading
role. Now, see here, Mr. Riley, that’s ■
a handsome offer. You’ll come across?
You’ll readmit her to the union? You
will? Now that’s real splendid of
you, Mr. Riley. Wait a moment, and
I’ll let you have Miss Cliatterton’s accept-
ance from her own ruby lips. Now, Miss
C., you’ve heard everything. I’m going to
plug you through to Mr. Riley. He’s been
a real good guy. You’ll do what I ask?”
! R.C.: “I suppose so.”
| The curtain slowly descends.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
»ems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A pair of tights—two drunks.
Two fashionable young bank-clerks, whom
we may as well call Smith and Jones,
pondered much on “making a rise,” and
agreed that there was nothing like catch-
ing an heiress. Smith met with an obvious
interposition of Providence. He travelled
alone in the tramcar with an old gentle-
man, who dropped a pocket-book ’ stuffed
with notes, and Smith, on seeing it, ran
after the 1 owner, pocket-book in hand. The
old gentleman was profuse in his thanks.
“Will you do me the favor of calling, at my
house on Thursday evenirig? If I’m not
there my daughter will receive you.” “Oh !”
says Smith to Jones. “I’m there!” . Smith
duly went and found that the old boy in-
habited a superb mansion. He was let in
by a footman and received by the daughter!
This was in a grand drawing-rooin. She
was sorry papa couldn’t see him, and gave
him four half-crowns. He dashed them at
the pier-glass, whence they rebounded
and smashed an article of virtu, valued at
50 guineas. For this he was given in
charge to the police! But the old man
relented and let him off.
The late Reverend Mr. Smaill, an aged
Scotch divine, for many years prided him-
self on having been to college with Carlyle
and known him intimately. He used
frequently to get up in the pulpit and
heave cliunks of Carlyle’s mightiest rhe-
torical road-metal at the heads of his con-
gregation. When the sage of Chelsea died
and went to where there is no dyspepsia
the divine rose to the occasion and preached
an eloquent sermon in which he told his
hearers in moving terms of their early
friendship and expatiated largely 'on the
many estimable qualities of his deceased
friend.. When some time afterwards “Car-
lyle’s Reminiscences” were pitchforked on
the reading world by Mr. Froiide', the good
old minister, curious _to see whether any
notice was taken of himself and their eany
intimacy, hastened to procure a copy. He
found that Carlyle had not forgotten him.
Here was his name immortalised by the
renowned author of “Sartor Resartus.” Ho
started reading with great eagerness. After
perusing some preliminary remarks of _ a
harrowing character, the
minister came to the fol-
lowing extraordinary
account of himself:
“Poor Smaill, too, I may
dismiss as thoroughly
insignificant, conceited
and harmless. Became
an insignificant, flowery
burgher minister some-
where in Galloway, and
died there within a few
years.” The old man
groaned in anguish of
spirit, and soon after-
wards retired from this
earth, probably in search
of Carlyle.
Various have been the
published reports as to
how millionaire Tyson
made his first big rise,
but the writer can vouch
for the authenticity of
the following account.
The four brothers Tyson
squatted down many
years ago on the north
side of the Lachlan
River, and, it being out-
side the limit of the
country upon which the
Government then
charged rent, there was
no one to say them nay.
In those days, before the
discovery of gold, the
brothers used to drive
cattle from their station
on the Lachlan to Syd-
ney, and beasts would
have to be fine fats to
realise something like
£1 per head. Fat
wethers were worth
about 2s. 6d. The Gov-
ernment then decided to
sell these runs by ten-
der, and postal com-
munication in those
times being practically
non-existent, the first
the Tysons heard of the
matter was that the
late Mr. Edward Flood
had become possessor of
their squattages. They
opened up negotiations
for purchase, and had
great difficulty in obtain-
ing the £250 which was
asked for it. When Ben-
digo broke out the
Tysons started on the road to millionairedom.
Two of them took cattle over and
began butchering, James being the buyer
afid John taking and sending the meat
round the country in bullock and horse
waggons, and it was related that James
would cross the river with cattle when
scarcely another man in Australia would
tackle it. After making a hatful of
money at the game, James took up a vast
tract of country on the Warrego and John
purchased a station at Deniliquin. When
John died some years after lie left all he
was worth to the rich brother, James, and
that could not have been much under
£lOO,OOO. And James has gone on increas-
ing the pile ever since. [3/5/’9o.]
The Prince of Wales [later King Edward]
gets 12 new dress-suits every season, and
uses three new silk hats every fortnight, also
two new frock-coats monthly. In vain he
strove to make the black cut-away coat
fashionable —the tall, slight young men
whom the frock-coat suited were too power-
ful. For a frock-coat the Prince pays £l2.
He is most particular as to fit, and the
slightest crease or wrinkle ensures, instant
return of the garment. No alterations are
allowed —a misfit ever so trifling involves the
building of a fresh coat or what not de novo.
'He pays 255. for a silk hat, and his shirts,
etc., cost him £250 a year. For boots he
pays £2 to £3 a pair, and always has a score
of pairs kept on last for immediate use. He
probably spends £2OOO a year on clothes,
apart from uniforms.
Just to prove the tenacity of purpose
, possessed by the majority of our sex, I
[Sappho Smith] must let you know how that
letter of Marmaduke Brown’s was discovered.
His wife told me all about it, but, of course,
you will * not mention the circumstances to
anyone. Mrs. Brown thought she had reason
to feel jealous, and determined to set her
doubts at rest, so watched her opportunity.
After tea the other evening Brown pro-
duced an immense package of circulars.
These, he told her, were enclosed in envelopes
and addressed to Muldoon’s town and coun-
try clients. “Of course, dear,” said Brown,
“it will take me a long time to get through
this lot, so don’t wait for me. Go to bed
early; you look tired.” She went to bed soon
after, but had not the slightest idea of going
to sleep—never felt so thoroughly awake in.
all her life. Prom her room she could only
see part of the wall of the sitting-room, where
he was engaged writing. (This piece of wall
forms the brickwork of the domestic drama.)
She could not see her husband, but heard
the pen travelling at a furious rate for an
hour or so. All at once she noticed a change
in the sound of the writing. She knew he
had finished addressing the envelopes, and
was writing the ‘ letter she wished to get
possession of. Presently he
brought a light into the room
and stood looking at his sleep-
ing (?) wife for a while. Appa-
rently satisfied, he walked
softly back to the sitting-room.
Unluckily for himself he placed
the candle in such a position
near the lamp that his shadow
was clearly defined on the wall
and could easily be seen by the
exultant watcher in the next
room. She saw him gather up
the envelopes containing Mul-
doo'n’s circulars and make a big
pile of them on the table. Then
he took up the letter, wrapped
some circulars round it, and finally put it
carefully in his left breast pocket. This
done, the shadow retired from the wall, and
the substance, Brown, took possession of' a
spare bed in his wife’s room. Before retir-
ing, he spread the coat containing the love-
letter on the quilt, just about where his
feet would locate, put the rest of liis apparel
on top of that, finishing off with a heavy
overcoat. End of the first act. Suspense.
Half an hour elapses between the acts.
Midnight. Mrs. B. waits till several silvery
snores are wafted on the silent air (“He
sleeps, my traitor sleeps!”), quietly slips out
of bed in the pale moonlight, and essays the
task of getting that document into her own
hands. After an awful amount of manoeuvr-
ing, she succeeds in grabbing the coat, extract-
ing the letter and replacing circulars and
envelope in his pocket. The problem now
was how to get the coat and other clothes
back in their original position on the bed.
Happy thought! She would bring a spare
blanket to the rescue. As she expected,
Brown woke up just as she had all the
appai’el ranged in proper order again. “What
are you doing?” he asked. “Only putting
another blanket on your bed, dear. The
night is much colder now,” she replied. Only
half-satisfied, Brown tried to go to sleep
again, but could not succeed. After a while
lie addressed his wife again. “My dear,
would you light the lamp? I think I’ll have
a look at the paper.” “My dear” did as
requested and brought part of the “Herald.”
“I don’t want this. Bring me The Bulle-
tin.” The paper was on the dressing-table,
and as she walked up the room she could see
him (in the looking-glass) stretch his hand
down to ascertain if that precious letter was
safe. That'was all he wanted the light for.
Convinced that all was safe, he fell asleep
and did not wake till morning. By that time
Mrs. B. had read the letter. It was written
to a six-foot male creature with a North of
Ireland brogue. [l2/l/’B9.]
Have you heard of the latest Sydney
patent? (Sappho Smith asks). Unbreak-
able corsets. All the engaged girls have
sent out for them in a hurry, and as a
doleful result all the engaged young men
wear their right arms in a sling, for they
(the corsets, not the young men) are
made of iron and But the invention is
worthy a verselet: —
He hugged her to his bounding heart,
With forty-horsepower grip to start,
And she thought she was in Zion.
Said he, “My sweet! Thou seemeth cold,
Thou doth not yield as I enfold” —
“I would yield, Gussie,” he was told,
“But my new stays are iron!”
“How will it end?” The “Romance of
Finance” has got to be written. _ When
written, its chapters will' run something like
this:—
Chapter 1 .. .. • • £ £ £
Chapter II .. . • , • < 0 0 0
Chapter 111 • • .. ? ? ?
VICTOR SECOND.
We were training two horses for the
Buckatowndown races. An old grey warrior
called Tricolor, whom the station boys in-
sisted on calling “The Trickier,” and a mare
for the hack race. Station horses don’t get
trained quite like Carbine; some days we
had no time to give them their gallops at
all, so they had to gallop twice as far the
next day to make up. And one day the boy
we had looking after The Trickier fell in
with a mob of sharps, who told him we
didn’t know anything about training horses,
and that what the horse really wanted was
“a twicer”; that is to say, a gallop twice
round the course. So the boy gave him a
“twicer” on his own responsibility, and
when we found out about it we gave the
boy a twicer with the strap, and he left and
took out a summons against us for assault.
But somehow or another we managed to get
the old horse pretty fit, and trying him
against hacks of different descriptions we
persuaded ourselves that we had the biggest
certainty ever known on a racecourse.
When the horses were galloping in the
morning the kangaroo-dog Victor used nearly
always to go down to the qourse and run round
with them. It amused lim apparently and
didn’t hurt anyone, so we used to let him
race; in fact, we rather encouraged him
because it kept him in good trim to hunt
kangaroos. When we were starting the
horses away for the meeting someone said we
had better tie up the dog, or he would be
getting stolen at the races. We called and
whistled, but he ‘had made himself scarce, and
we started off and forgot all about him.
Buckatowndown Races. Red-hot day.
everything dusty, everybody drunk and
blasphemous. All the betting at Bucka-
towndown was double-event! You had to win
the money first and fight the man for it
afterwards. The start for our race, the Town
Plate, was delayed for a quarter of an hour,
because the starter flatly refysed to leave a
AN AMIABLE SUGGESTION.
HE (about to propose) : “I have secured
my land-selection and am now quite
on my feet.”
She (pointing to the door): “Well, now
that you are on your feet, don’t you
think you had better walk?”
[By G. B. Ashton.— 13/9/’90.]
ŗ
THE DREAMER.
A dreamer lay in a land of flowers
And scarcely stirred as the hours flew
by;
For bees hummed ever amid the bowers,
And the locust chanted drowsily;
And the dreamer dreamed of a thousand
towers
With golden turrets against the sky.
What if, away in the fields of grain,
The reapers worked and the sun beat
doAvn ?
Poor worms! they toiled while his busy
brain
Plad built great ships and a white-walled
town—
Had been with crowds who would shout
again
To deck his name with a world’s renown.
What if, away on the dusty road,
A band of mourners drew slowly nigh,
And a weary man had laid down his load
In the race of life? As the bier passed
by
The dreamer smiled, for his dreamland
showed
A nation mourning when he must die.
But the air grew chill, and a last late bee
Flew over his head on its homeward way,
And a breeze came up from the far-off sea
And stirred his hair; it was thin and
grey;
And a spectral shape stole silently
Adown the lane where the dreamer lay.
THE MARCH OF DEMOCRACY : THE “COPPER”-
TRADES’ UNION.
“The Redfern police are on ‘strike.’ Up to March, constables on
night duty and those who had to attend the Court in the morning to
prove charges against prisoners: were allowed two hours’ ‘spell.’ On and
after April 4, 1888, the ‘spell’ was stopped; the consequence being that the
police do not care to arrest prisoners unless they are obliged; for if
they do they will have to attend the court.” —Sydney daily payer.
POLICEMAN X: “Begorra, if I didn’t belong to the Trades
Union I’d run yez in.”
The dreamer spoke: “I must rouse me soon ;
I have worlds to win.—l have much to do;
I have only slumbered an afternoon
While the day was warm and the skies
were blue,
And a bed of grasses, with roses strewn,
Brought scented sleep as the swift hours
flew.”
But Death stood waiting amid the flowers:
“What canst thou show for thy life?” he
said, *<►
“A fair dream-city with golden towers!”
Then touched him once on the brow and
fled.
The bees were dumb in the jasmine bowers,
And the dreamer slept with the unknown
dead.
QUEENSLAND.
THANE.


‘"Punctuality
A
Wonderful
Asset
M
&
FROM cheery good morning time to bed-
time —depend on your Westclox.
Big Ben, Baby Ben, or any other Westclox
will wake you exactly when you wish.
Through the day, Pocket Ben, the accurate
Westclox watch, keeps you punctual.
All Westclox are dependable. They give
10
9
7
>
real value. Look for
them at your dealer’s.
Prices 6/6 to 62/6
WestctoC
Western Clock Co.
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
BROWN & BUREAU LTD.
Distributors for Australia
Melbourne, Sydney,
Perth, Brisbane
106
r THE PATRIOT
WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. H 1 N< MCLIEi'E,
2 HUNTER STREET.
r{)
&
*!-• a
$%&P s goiZ%>if&s
Nl 4 -*-
m
'W'&WySP—
■fs.
rtv:
8
OK
523
£' //MS
sggi
aft
, I
mf
CIS,
J?M
m
&
Champion reserve!
f port a
BV THE makers"
M. VfiOMAS HARDY is.SONS LIMITED-
Wa 3„,. (> |Ot MELBOURNE E SYONEvI
eySTPEuEn w,^,e~ Et y
9
l PINT 6 FLUID OZS
NET
Fortunate
Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a happy
sun, the broad vineyards of Tin-
tara smile and gladden to a rich
success.
The dominating factors of purity and
excellence, which have achieved for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wine (Gold
Label) their enviable popularity, were
created on these glowing fields.
The fact that Hardys place these
very high-quality wines before the
public at such moderate prices
sets their competitors furiously
to think.
Procurable at all Hotels and
Licensed Stores which spe-
cialise in stocking the higher
grades of wines.
Destiny.
J. H. M. ABBOTT’S
STORY OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE AND DESTINY
AND WHAT HAPPENED AT SPRINGWOOD STOCKADE IN 1830.
TMIE Baron Augustus Von Big, of
Hamelin in Hanover, and of Castle
Hill, by Parramatta, in New South
Wales, was nearly a hundred years old, and
very wise and cynical and kind-hearted, when
I had the. honor of his acquaintance in the
year 1888, myself being a boy at The King’s
School. He had served as an Assistant-
Commissary under the Duke of Wellington
in the Peninsular War. and had been a very
valuable citizen of Australia, fattening cattle
and breeding sheep since 1817. When he
died, in 1890, he left me many bound
volumes in MS. which were records and
reminiscences of lus long life; but, not being
familiar with the German language, I never
looked into them until many years later,
after a friend had made some translations
which showed their value and interest as
historical documents. It was only quite
recently that the Baron’s relation in one of
these translated passages of an incident in
the story of early colonial days recalled a
Sunday afternoon I once spent, long ago, at
Pampeluna, as he called the big square
house in a delightful orchard from which
the old gentleman used to look out over
Parramatta on those sunny days which
make the valley so beautiful. What he said
to me on that occasion has some bearing
upon the extract from his reminiscences
which I propose presently to reproduce here.
It explains a little of the peculiar philosophy
with which he regarded an affair that must
have been startling enough at the time, how-
ever he came to look at it afterwards.
I had an exeat for the afternoon which
permitted me to remain “out of bounds”
until nine o’clock in the evening, and it was
while sitting in the Baron’s bedroom —his
man, Michael Costello, always put him to
bed at 4 p.m.—that I asked him if he had
ever seen Napoleon Bonaparte. I had been
reading up “the little corporal” because of
an essay On the Battle of Waterloo which
had to be done by .Monday morning. I do
not forget the quaint look of the old fellow,
his brown and shrivelled countenance stand-
ing out against the frilled white pillows
that propped him up in bed, with two close-
clipped mutton-chop whiskers, like patches
of snow on a barren hillside, nicely balanc-
ing it. He wore a gorgeous scarlet silk
nightcap of the conventional pattern, with
;•, dangling down over his angular left
id a brocaded bed-jacket of yel-
imson satin, so that in the big
be. i :is shrunken figure — he had been
• lly, years before, as “the big
* tdc a startling blob of color not
nember for forty years or so.
* Hi a long curved pipe, with a deep
and his glass of schnapps stood
on . a little round table beside him. He
seemed very comfortable and happy and
healthy and contented, despite his century
of years and all he had done and seen. For
all his age, Augustus Von Big was still a
strong man mentally when he died a couple
of years later.
“What iss that, Shore—haf I seen Nap-
oleon? Oh, yes, I haf seen him, and I re-
member him quite well. A little man, a
little pallid man with an eye that saw efery-
thing; that was Napoleon Bonaparte, Oott
strafe his memory ! Three times haf I seen
that great, bad little man. The once was
in Hanoyer, when he led his armies to the
Danube, in 1805, before Austerlitz, and twice
it was, ten years later, in Paris, when he
came back from Elba for the Hundred Days.
A little Italian-looking man lie was, this
Man of Destiny. Destiny —ach ! What is
this Destiny, Slion, that this little Corsican
fellow made such a mouthful of? What is
it, I ask you? Nothing—nothing at all!
The appointed end —bah! I tell you, my
poy, Gott himself does not know what end
may come to the creatures He has put the
breath of life within. Nein! Why should
He? What are these insignificants to Him?
He cares no more what may become of an
Emperor Napoleon than He cares what may
become of Michael Costello or you or me.
The Man of Destiny! Pouf! The Man
of Chance! There iss no such thing as
Destiny, Slion. With all mankind it is only
chance —though in the Great Universe the
greater things are fixed and ordered. Wliat-
effer you think you will become, my poy, or
do, neffer-forget that anything, anything at
all, may change it for you. You may do as
much as Bismarck, or know as much as
Charles Darwin —or a cinder may destroy
your eyesight, and you may end as a blind
beggar with a box on the corner of a street.
Ja, it iss like that.”
As I read, the other day, my friend’s
translation of this episode in the Baron’s
life that I am going to set down here in his
own words —or. rather, in the English ver-
sion of them—l can see him in his great
four-poster, smoking his china pipe and lay-
ing down the law, as was his wont; and it is
further recalled to me that it was half-
past nine when I got back to the school and
reported myself to Clobs, the drill-sergeant,
and got an hour’s pack drill for being half
an hour late. It is forty-three years
since those things happened, and they all
come back because of what the Baron writes
concerning those views of his about Destiny,
which you will see to have been the same
with him in Governor Darling’s day as they
were at the end of liis life, that Sunday
When 1 dishonored my exeat for 9 p.m.
But “Mr. Augustus” was nothing if not
consistent, a.s much in his virtues as in his
vices, and in his philosophy as in his friend-
ship.
It was not' the Baron’s way to keep a
regular diary. So often —sometimes at the
end of a very notable year, sometimes with
an interval of two or three between volumes
—he would make one of his books, and have
it bound up, so that they read much more
easily and entertainingly than a daily jour-
nal could. He got his facts into focus,' and
was surer and more certain in his review of
them by putting his chronicle together the
way he did. He is remarkably reliable I
have not yet found “Mr. Augustus” to be
wrong in facts when I have compared his
statements with contemporary records, so
am inclined to an opinion that he was pretty
sound in his judgment of them, whatever
they may have been.
He made a memorable journey over the
.Blue Mountains in 1830, in the company of
Mr. William Charles Wentworth. The
Baron was paying his bi-annual visit to
Salamanca, his Macquarie River cattle-run.
whilst Mr. Wentworth had business at
Bathurst. They met at breakfast in the
Woolpack Inn at Parramatta on the first
morning of their journey.
“I had hardly driven into the inn yard,”
writes the Baron, “when I heard my name
called from an upstairs window in a fami-
liar voice. Alighting from my curricle at
the instant, I perceived my friend Bill Went-
worth, who shouted that he was coming
downstairs. So I met him in the dining-
room, and we broke fast in company. It
was arranged that we should travel together
in his vehicle, whilst our two servants fol-
lowed in mine. Mutual delight at our good !
fortune in thus meeting characterised the |
repast, and we began our journey in com- j
pany at eight o’clock. People were early
abroad in those more strenuous days, and
he had, so he told me, left his Sydney home
at Vaucluse, about twenty miles down the
harbor from Parramatta, at four o’clock that
morning, in a light gig, having sent his
travelling coach with the horses he intended
to use on the journey as far as the Wool-
pack the day before.
“Mr. Wentworth’s closed carriage afforded
quite a luxurious means of travel, and the
road to Emu Ford had been so much im-
proved since first I travelled upon it in the
year ’.lB, when it was little better than a j
track through the forest, that we made excel-
lent progress, and had arrived at the river
crossing by midday. Here we halted at the
inn by Emu Ford, to bait the horses and
refresh ourselves with a meal. Since it was
the middle of summer, Mr. Wentworth de-
cided against making the ascent of the first
slopes of the mountains in the heat of the
day, and we accordingly took a siesta after
dinner in the Spanish fashion, and did not
resume our journey until close upon four
o'clock. The lighter vehicle belonging to
me, however, we dispatched in advance of
our own progress in order that the servants
might have accommodation prepared for our
arrival at Springwood in the evening, where
we proposed to spend the night. The ascent
of this range is exceedingly trying to horse-
flesh, and it behoves travellers to spare their
horses as much as possible during the first
sixty or seventy miles of the journey to
Bathurst, so that a halt at the Government
station is a judicious termination of the first
day’s course.
“Over the Lapstone Hill, and in certain ,
other places where it is steeper than usual,
we eased our horses as much as possible
by proceeding afoot, and our progress was
naturally slow. From Parramatta the dis-
tance to Springwood is hardly 30 miles, but
it was evening before we arrived at the
Stockade, where we were made heartily wel-
come by the Commandant, Captain Delaue,
of the 57th Regiment, who there had charge
of the garrison detailed to guard and pre- i
serve order amongst the large body of con- I
victs employed upon the construction of the j
improved road laid out by the Surveyor- j
General, Major Mitchell.
“These stockades are a conspicuous fea-
ture of the wayside scenery at certain points I
along the Bathurst-road. The Springwood j
establishment is built nearly in the form !
of a square, the huts of the prisoners being I
of bark, facing inwards and joined together, |
except at the entrance. The inner square is
divided into several compartments, for the
different companies of prisoners, by rail
fencing, on which they hang and dry their
clothes, etc., after washing; and all around,
about four yards from the back of these
huts, on the outside, is a strong fence of
split timber, about fourteen or fifteen feet
in height, having two great gates at the
entrance. Fronting this gateway on either j
side are the .soldiers’ barracks in two rows.
These are also built of bark and split wood,
with mud chimneys, and some of them plas-
tered and white-washed inside; and at the
head of these barracks are the officers’ quar-
ters, forming a kind of parallelogram with
the stockade. These quarters, consist of
a shingled cottage, with two tolerably-sized
rooms, back kitchen, etc., having a verandah
in front. The guard consists of a captain’s
company. On one side are the hospital and
storehouse and the tents of the Commis-
sary ; on the other the cooking-shed and but-
chers’ and bakers’ houses, the overseers’ and
constables’ huts, etc. These buildings, all
erected in a hurry, and in a very little time,
being, of course, merely temporary, form,
as it were, a little town, and contain gener-
ally between seven and eight hundred inhabi-
tants.
“We were met outside the stockade by
Captain William Delane, who had had tents
pitched for our accommodation, and had pre-
pared dinner for us in his own quarters.
He was, of course, quite well known to both
Mr. Wentworth and myself, and the hearti-
ness of his welcome tended to dispel the
fatigues of travel. The worthy Comman-
dant, rightly convinced that the amelioration
of the hardships incidental to garrison duty
in this wild and solitary place was a duty
he owed to himself, had provided himself
with a housekeeper, who turned out to be
none other than the, fair and buxom Polly
Doughty, for some time, on my first arrival
in the colony, my own domestic goddess of
that sort indispensable to bachelors who are
not St. Anthonys. She was, of course, a
good deal older than when I had been fami-
liar with her charms, but, as she very kindly
demonstrated to me later on in my tent,
where w« renewed *i former pleasant inti-
macy, still quite companionable and an
excellent antidote to loneliness. Captain
Delaue, Mr. Wentworth and I dined well,
(Continued on newt page.)


o 0
©a ©a
a«o©
iHID
jgggj |§
■Bl ■
•Eies
Children admine^cffkpfrmt
ĕ
“80-PEEP” PRINT is 36 inches wide, and is obtainable in a large
number of styles, designs and colorings.
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS AND STORES.
Produced by the makers of “Tricoline” —equal to
silk.
If any difficulty in obtaining, please write
Mr. IT. G. RArNDELL,
The Grace Building, York Street, Sydney.
ė
ff
«*
’Looks gOdd-
is good'.'
for Childrens Wear
Q Zikmco?
labric
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
+m
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Sireet. Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” Gd. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
ALEMITE
ę
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
LUBRICATION
and .sat late over our churchwardens and
the excellent rum-punch many times renewed
by the excellent Polly, so that it was long
after midnight by the time my companions
sought their lonely couches. If Captain
Delane’s hospitality is to he thanked for the
comfort I enjoyed, I cannot say too much
for him. The nights in those elevated situa-
tions can be very cold.
“As was only natural, the Commandant
and I had much to talk over relating to
the Duke’s campaign in the Iberian Penin-
sula, where we had both, I may modestly
say, played useful parts. Mr. Wentworth
was an interested listener, to. our reminis-
cences, and was occasionally, in the discus-
sion of such celebrities as his reading had
made him familiar with, a participant of
our conversaton. With a lively admiration,
however, of that brilliant young, man’s intel-
lectual attainments, I have never been able
to conceal from myself that he is prone to
dogmatism, a slight failing which was well
exemplified this evening when the talk
turned upon the character of Napoleon
Bonaparte, of whom he used a phrase which
has ever been anathema with me. lie spoke
of him in that hackneyed and imbecile
fashion which alludes to this opportunist as
‘The Man of Destiny.’ I could not but join
issue with him, begging my host's pardon
and craving his indulgence whilst 1 spoke
my mind concerning the misuse of this much
abused English word ‘Destiny.’
Destiny!’ I said, thumping the table
with my clenched fist, the better to empha-
sise my point—‘there is-no such thing, and
it surprises me, my dear Bill Wentworth, to
hear you apply it to that scoundrelly robber
who has done so much harm to the world.
The appointed end — bah! Herr Got! him-
self does not know the finish of the creatures
whom He hath endued with life. —as if, lie
should! What are these lice to Him? He
cares no more that Napoleon Bonaparte
should die in exile at St. Helena than He
cares whether these convicts in the stockade
behind us rise in rebellion to-night and kill
the three of us who sit here now drinking
this excellent rum-punch. There is no such
thing as Destiny, Bill Wentworth-—no such
thing. It is only chance. You yourself
may become King of Australia —or a snake
may bite you and kill you in the morning.
Captain Delane may become lieutenant-
colonel of the 57tli —or lie may indulge too
freely in rum and get cashiered. What does
the Herr Gott care?’
“Mr. Wentworth had laid down his pipe,
and was doubtless on the point of over-
whelming me with one of those avalanches
of oratory he so well knows how to hurl
at his adversaries, when suddenly a musket-
shot rang out in the stillness of the summer
night, and then another. There ensued a
confused uproar in the stockade, and over
it all sounded the bellow of a bull, as the
sergeant-of-the-guard shouted, ‘Guard, turn
out!” We rose from our chairs and went
on to the verandah of the Commandant’s
quarters.
“It was over in five minutes, and but for
an angrv buzzing of bees within the palisad-
ing'of the enclosure, the disturbance ceased
as suddenly as it had begun.
“‘•’Tis an attempt at an escape,’ explained
the Commandant, apologetically, ‘but we will
soon see.’
“Presently, swinging a lantliorn, came run-
ning the sergeant-of-the-guard to make his
report- —a powerful man, big enough for the
Prussian Guard. He halted in the lamp-
light and saluted his commanding officer.
“ ‘Well, Sergeant,’ asked Captain Delane
without excitement, ‘did they wing him?’
“ ‘Dead as Aaron, sir—he got it in the
head.’
“‘Good! Which of them was it?’
“‘Don’t know, yet, sir. Will you come
and see?’ •
“‘ls the Superintendent there? Mr.
Mason will know him.’
“ ‘Yes, sir—l met him as I came to
report.’
“ ‘Will you come, gentlemen?’ the Com-
mandant asked us. ‘lf not, then pray excuse
me for a minute or two, and fill your glasses.
I’ll not be long. ’Tis but a dead bolter. No-
thing to disturb our pleasant evening. The
sentries have fixed him. Pray, excuse me
for a little while.’
“But Mr. Wentworth and I went with
him, and at the corner of the stockade came
upon a group of soldiers and overseers who
clustered about the corpse of a prisoner
lying a few yards from the slab fence. The
sentry’s bullet had ’ pierced his brain. He
had escaped—but not as he meant to.
“The sergeant’s lantliorn showed in its
flickering light the man’s pale face and a
bloody mess at the back of his head, which
lay in a spreading pool of gore. A singu-
larly handsome face, it was, and as I peered
down at it with curiosity I felt Mr. Went-
worth grip my arm above the elbow, and
heard him exclaim in startled accent:
“‘God in Heaven! ’Tis Sir Charles
Clyne!’
“ ‘No, sir,’ exclaimed a rough voice close
at hand. ‘’Tis Number 701, Thomas Jones,
pris’ner-for-life, per Lady Bolton, Sussex
Assizes, 1824 ; forgery. That’s th’ covey,
Cap’n Delane, One o’,these gcnnleman-lags.
Tried to cut ’is sentence, an’ succeeded in
a-cuttin’ ’is lucky. That’s th’ covey.’ The
Superintendent, Mr. John Mason, meant to
explain that, in attempting to escape, the
unfortunate prisoner had lost his life.
“ ‘All, well, it; doesn’t matter. Poor Clyne
—poor, unhappy man!’ said Mr. Wentworth
sadly as we turned away and walked back
to the Commandant’s quarters. T was up
with him at Cambridge.’
“In Captain Delane’s dining-room, as we
negotiated a fresh bowl of Polly's good rum-
punch, Mr. Wentworth told us what he
knew of the dead man. It would seem that
at the English University of Cambridge dur-
ing the period of our friend’s studentship Sir
Charles Clyne, Baronet, had been the most
brilliant young man of the day, and that
great things Were expected of him when he
should have entered politics and embraced
that career of statesmanship for which his
great abilities, no less than the tradition
of his family, seemed to have marked him
out. After his university course he read
for the Bar, and some time subsequently to
being ‘called,’ as it is put in England,
entered the House of Commons. In the capa-
city of a member of Parliament he had
shown great promise, and was regarded by
everyone as a sure recipient of Minis.erial
preferment when the party to which he held
allegiance should attain the handling of the
reins- of government. But he was a great
gambler—and a very unlucky one. He com-
mitted forgery, and had to fly to the Con-
tinent. That was the last Mr. Wentworth
knew of him. Whether he returned to Eng-
land, and there under another name again
transgressed the laws he was not aware;
but something of the sort must have hap-
pened to account for his being in a chain-
gang working on the public roads in New
South Wales.
“With much sadness and considerable
moralising, Mr. Wentworth told us the story
of the unhappy man then laid out upon a
sheet of bark in the stockade deadhouse
awaiting the investigation of his death by
the coroner from Emu Plains and an un-
named grave beside some mountain gully, and
I must confess that both Captain Delane
and I were greatly moved by the sad story
we listened to as we drank our punch and
smoked our churchwarden pipes.
“‘Ah, well,’ sighed r Mr. Wentworth, as
he concluded his recital, ‘such, 1 suppose,
was the poor fellow's destiny. 1
“A little disturbed by this nonsense, 1
leaned across the table and shook the stem
of my pipe at my friend Bill Wentworth.
It was intolerable to me that, he should drag
in this damnable doctrine of Destiny, and 1
was resolved to confute such foolishness
there on the spot. But .something outside
the house, on the edge of the lamplight shin-
ing into the night through the open door,
attracted part of my v attention. When 1
had glanced once or twice in that direction
1 became aware of Polly Doughty, who mad
gestures that were unmistakable. So I dis-
sembled, and pretended that I was remark-
ing the lateness of the hour.
“ ‘I would have you know, my good Bill.'
I said cunningly, ‘that it is close upon mid-
night, and that we are due to start upon our
journey at dawn. 'Tis bedtime, my friend.
Let us seek our tents.’
“‘Oh. the night v young. Baron.’ inter
posed the Comm .uant. ‘Have some more
to drink. Take and fill your glass. Sure, 1
don’t enjoy an intellectual evening every
day now. Sit aisy, will ye, and be sociable.'
“But I would stay no longer, and I left
them there, moralising upon the fate of Sir
Charles Clyne. It would have given me plea-
sure to confound Mr. Wentworth’s views as
to ‘Destiny.’ but it seemed to me that there
were more agreeable matters to be attended
to in the immediate future, and it has ever
been a principle of my life never to keep
a lady waiting. Mr. Wentworth might per
sist in his heresies —what business was n
of mine? I bade them good night and sought
my tent.
“‘Polly,’ I asked a little later, Svhat ar
your views as to Destiny?’
“‘Never heard tell o’ th’ gemmen, dearie.
Is he bond or free?’
“ ‘Oh, Destiny’s a prisoner, my dear,' I
told her, chuckling to myself. ‘Destiny’s in
bondage, very much so.’
“ ‘Oh. well,’ she yawned, ‘I dunno 'irn. 1
never did 'five any truck wi’ them lags. 1
was alius for th’ quality.’ ”
Two Sunsets.
Here resting and here musing,
While twilight shadows fall,
Two sunsets making golden
Great spaces, 1 recall.
One showed me, eastward sailing,
With tide and wind to urge,
A. ship with gleaming topsails
Upon the sea’s far verge.
And as the other gilded
Wide plain and mountain crest,
I saw a rider riding
Into the radiant west.
Each swathed in fleeting glory,
I watched a little span ; -
And then fell night, and swallowed
Ship, ocean, plain and man.
Yet, sunset-lit, I see them
As here I, musing, rest,
That tall ship sailing eastward.
That rider riding west.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Maid Bewitched.
She walked right into the heart of the moon
As it hung on the top of the hill,
And the shepherd found her there at dawn
When the mist was thick and chill; -
And lie wrapped her in his tattered plaid,
And he brought her home again.
But the fairies call her in the sun,
And the witches through the rain.
She will never be as other maids,
To court and kiss and wed,
For her golden ring is the harvest moon
And the bleak hill makes her bed.
Even the green leaves talk to her
With their tattling tongues at spring,
And the yellow ben has a message tucked
In the basket ’neatli its wing.
Oh ! It. may he gay with the fairy folk
Till the whirling dance is o’er,
If your feet are fain to the haunted wood
And not for the chapel door ;
If a maid should go to the haunted wood,
And that maid be young and fair,
She may go in like a sonsy garl
And come out as a running hare.
Shade a«d sunlight in chequered pools
And the song of the boughs o erhead—
And this is the path that the maidens choose
Who are not for a marriage bed.
The pheasant rose from the bracken patch,
The brown lark pierced the sky ;
A viper looked from a broken rock
When he heard the maid go by ;
And he followed her over the bannered grass,
And he fawned at her clouted shoon,
As he told her tales of a magic life
That is lived in a silver moon.
So we drove her forth from the sheltered
farm,
And we cursed her quick or still.
Yet I sometimes think I can hear her
laugh,
As though happy on her lull.
QI'EKNSLANIi.
M. FORREST.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CQ. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD,, Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854 •
Victorians Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought nd study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE ACE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 122,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Clk Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere-—all over the State, in Town
and ‘ Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class Action.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Office- F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Sydney street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus’ Building, Elizabeth
St.VPPT,.
Clk fldwrtiscr
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all .
the Advertisements.
Copies of “ THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch. price lid.
advertiser newspapers ltd.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
THE
WOMAN S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern j s
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SAVE YOUR ESTATE
from the heavy toll of
DEATH DUTIES
by effecting a Life policy for an
amount to cover the duties.
A policy with the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
provides the readiest, cheapest
and most effective protection.
ASSETS £83,000,000
INQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office: F. T. BRIDGES,
87,‘ Pitt Street, Sydney. General Manager.
Agents everywhere in Australia and New Zealand.
ŕ
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express'’ obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Thousands subscribe to Australia’s Great
Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered
“The Bulletin” to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The BULLETIN for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME : .
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
ŗ
0°
* l>
S&
>e
#*•
• , ’
' Xt><
■••' ~->«B^
•*


e
m
w/
7
\\
Revitalize your nerves
with
sanatogen
The True Tonic'Food
Take Sanatogen to build up a
reserve of bodily and nervous
strength! fake Sanatogen, and
you will forget what nerve weak-
ness means for it will restore
you to sound, lasting health.
Sanatogen provides the muscles,
nerves and blood with exactly
the right proportion of glycero-
phosphate and albumin that the
run-down system needs. Sanatogen
gives you new strength and vitality
to conquer all forms of nerve
weakness: loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness and general debility.
More than 24,000 physicians all
over the world have written
recommending Sanatogen as an
ideal nerve - strengthening food.
Why then should you not give
Sanatogen a trial ?
Go to your
Chemist to-day.
ř
He sells
Sanatogen
SANATOGEN will do you good. It will do good to the whole of your family.
Sanatogen builds healthy, happy home life by conquering nervousness.
