

|f ; ."y^g
:
V , v;
m. m
••vi : ;*v
/
»»»
SWpnnßi
.
MfliPMiiKillilHiß
aiiMWglWMwfc %i
ißil
.■Oil
s®*B
■ ::
(
' ;>
v
:
HiVi
; -
Beai'j
HSi
>
1 m
. ■
4 HMm
i
. ?'
*ll I |i||||f
.jiMapipi
.
'••■ .*
m
i:i . .
IISMP jjif
■ Q.,
: -:.:
qKL Tsjf*.” fw
w
*tST.
\nw
< 'W
mSBr
\
.
You can buy
an AKUBRA
wherever good
hats are sold
In all the latest colours,
including the
New Havana Brown
% """ HU mmKKm. m
'* * '***" VA ‘
y/*C .^v*£:;ifi~; f v:
The Bulletin
j GUttlt) IN9+4L
Vol. 52. —No. 2691.
Wednesday, September 9, 1931.
Price 6d.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
ill
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, withoiit obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit nl
advertised m the Sydney Bulletin. ’
My Name
Mv Address ..
SB. 131
LiSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
n orjOi
-TAKE
HUDSON'S
eumenthol
JUJUBES
The wonderful efficiency of Hud-
son’s Eumenthol Jujubes, for all
affections of the throat, chest and
lungs, has been endorsed by the
medical profession for over 40
years. Always keep a tin handy—
there is no better remedy for young
and old.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward —pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
lias been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Do You Know THIS?
Western Australia embraces a third
of the Commonwealth of Australia,
and could comfortably hold England,
Ireland, Scotland and Wales, France,
Germany, Hungary, Norway, Italy,
Portugal, Switzerland and Belgium,
with room to spare.
It could very nearly accommodate a
third of the United States.
The BIGGEST PAPER
in the
LARGEST STATE
is the PERTH
A GREATER VOLUME OF NEWS
AND ADVERTISING PER ISSUE
THAN ANY OTHER PAPER IN THE
GOLDEN WEST.
Sell through the Popular
Western Advertising Medium.
—BEST BY TEST—
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
the Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its cirfculatioh
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Potter Business
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Two Novels
■ Eugene Lohrke’s Deep Evening (Capo:
Koycroft; 7s. 6d.) is drawn from life, not
existence. Its scene is the sinking of a
great liner, her bottom ripped out by ice
in the Atlantic. To that phenomenon the
reactions of a dozen or so people are
shown to be phenomenal, which is why the
novel takes on the nature of life, is
a living, vital creation, pulsing and breath-
ing on its own account. How the author
creates this illusion is of interest to
the .student, -of. ..narrative - craft. • A touch
here and there may seem to do it; but
eventually the secret goes home to the sheer
driving force behind the pen. No amount
of academic study can get at that. It is
the creative vigor at work. But the touches
are the vehicles which convey the illusion
to the reader, and Lohrke’s repay study. It
is they that form the terrible spectacle of
a n , lght : the Oner’s bulk, her solitariness
and the life that is in her, as distinct from
the existences that are about her. The
limits of a craft which makes it necessary
X) concentrate on some of those existences
to the exclusion of the others lifts them
out temporarily as giants. So able-seaman
James Morgan, 70ft. aloft, thinking with
brutish jealousy of his wife, seems gigantic;
as do Mrs. Gilpin, whose husband is back
in America, and the major with whom she is
having her shipboard adultery; the sinister
steward Ziemssen, and a few others. But
THE IDEAL. CABINET.
Britain’s all-parties Cabinet was as good as forecast by the artist in
this cartoon-page 12 in thal capilal book THE BEST OF LOW. The grin behind Low
is his boss, Beaverbrook.
all slip back into proportion, as significant
detail, when the liner is tilting and sinking,
and the massed cockleshells are going down
to the risen sea. I do not know whether
Lohrke was at the war, but somewhere he
has learnt that the fact of something actua
and near imbues humans, in the face of ex-
traordinary danger, with a sense of persona
security which is ridiculous compared with
the peril at hand. At the war men huddlec
under useless shelters in a barrage com-
paratively confident in their ability to go
on living. So, w! ; !e the liner remains afloat
Lohrke s principal people react, with certain
variations resulting from habit and tempera-
ment. Morgan, the lookout, whose jealous
thoughts of a woman blinded him to the
impending danger in the first place, is kept
aloft by that sense of security:—
No one had told him that he must stay up here
no one would have noticed it if he had slipped
down scrambled up to the boat deck and mingled
with those who might still be saved. No one had
ever told him in all that life of his, spent in a
tight for mere preservation, for a few scraps of
wretched food to eat, a wretched bed to sleep on to
breed his wretched little dreams and hatreds, that
there might be some end in living* and dying as a
mere naked challenge to death.
But he remains aloft, till at last he must
jump to his death in the sea. In like
security, Ziemssen, “mindful that the hour
was drawing near when politeness would no
longer bring tips,” bends forward to a
panic-savage woman and says firmly, as
though in answer to a question, “Madame,
you are an old bitch!”
Deep Evening is decidedly not a novel
that, one turns from in search of antidote.
It does not take three hours of existence
and present it, as the so-called realists do,
in *all its mundane crudity; it creates three
hours of life. There
is a considerable
difference, never,
apparently, to be
seen by those who
believe that reality
is something that
grows on a dunghill, that flesh is the be-
ginning and end of beauty, that senility is
not a disease of existence but a state of life,
or even that dialogue is something you hear
in the street, instead of a creative repre-
sentation. Instead of turning from the'
reality oi Deep Evening, i should turn to
it as antidote against the slobber of the
sentimentalists. But after some of the dung-
hill and disease school, in whose favor ■it
should be stated that they are not given to
slobber, I should hope for such a novel as-
The Career of Julian Stanley-Williams
by Adrian Alington (Chatto and Windus;
Bs. 6d. net). This is a full-length portrait
of a man, dressed, and, as the elegant
art jargon has it, holding mirror. Julian
was born Williams; the hyphen came later,
a fail indication of his character. He is not
so much an egotist as an exquisite—an actor
fellow, if one may put it this way, in all
the ramifications of that meaning term.
Like nearly all actors, he has no sense of
humor. Some actresses have, his wife among
them; but then, acting is natural to women;
any woman can make some sort of a fist at
it, however unnatural her sense of humor.
But the actor fellow as a race is deficient—
not sadly deficient, of course, because if
he had that sense we wouldn’t have him, and
a good actor, like a good bishop, is an
ornament not to be despised. I am not
suggesting that men can be graded as
actors according to the degree of their de-
ficiency in humor. The worst actors I
know are as deficient as some of the best.
Julian himself, wholly deficient, was not
good. “A baddish actor—poor chap,” is
the last word of him. What I would suggest,
embracing most of his fancy and ability,
is that it is paucity of the agreeable sense
which keeps him on the boards. In his
case it has other consequences. After the
usual trifling affairs that must happen to
any good-looking young man who travels
with touring companies, he flukes a wife who
is _as fine a woman as she is an actress.
Disastrous, of course. Genius does not mix
with vanity. So Julian, after the bloom has
worn off, is jealous of his wife’s success,
and grasps that handy excuse for. pursuing
his affairs with women whose talents are
only enough to flatter him. Not for a
moment does Alington take Julian seriously;
He presents him as a delicious figure of
comedy. But the erosions that life make
m him are none the less deep on that
account, nor is his disintegration any the
less effectually conveyed. There is some-
thing very charming about this book.
RED PACE.
Music Written in the Heart
I went up, on a magpie’s trill, high into
heaven; and saw Camden under me
There was the river nibbling its way
through a convoluted country; and there
were the roads stretched out in every direc-
tion. roads to Cobbitty, Werombi, Appin
or Picton.
Bells, cast in England, chimed from the
church of St. John’s; and their sound drew
my eyes towards the spire, with its related
cypresses, standing in the sun.
Returning to earth, I chanced upon a
garden where the fruit-trees were com-
pletely under blossom; so that, if I touched
{Red, Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Business Integrity.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Anthony Horderns'
Cool Comfort for Hot Summer Days
X-L-All Blinds
Most Economical
and will Last a Lifetime
‘‘X-L-All’’ Blinds are constructed of Redwood Timber, Laths, 1 Jin. x 5-32 in,
Chained together every 12 inches apart with “X-L-All” Patent Chain.
‘‘X-L-AH” Blinds are sun and rain proof, admit aihple ventilation and ideal for
privacy and Sleeping-out Verandahs. No cords to rot, no wires to kink or
break. The Chain linked lath-blind is your assurance of long life, durability,
freedom of rolling and satisfaction. Sizes and Prices:—
sdkjfg
df
Packing for “X-L-All” Blinds, 2/- per bundle extra. Longer drops, 1 Od. per additional square foot. Special widths and drops charged next standard size.
Patent “Holdfast” Blind Stays make Blinds rigid in all weathers. If supplied with Blind, per set 8/6. Supplied separately, per set 10/6.
Material for Fly Proof Doors and Windows
Make your own fly floors and screens this summer. All the materials can be purchased ready for assembly at Anthony
Horderns’. These consist of: Set of Dressed Timber and Beading; set of 6 Corner and Centre Brackets; pair of Spring
Hinges; Door Handle; Brads and Tacks; and sufficient cut out Woven Wire to complete. For doors up to 6ft. 1 Oin.
x 2ft. ! Oin. and 7ft. x 3ft,
df
12 Mesh
GALVANISED
dsf
PERFORATED
ZINC
Size o/ Sheet, 7ft. x
3ft. x 8-gauge, Fly-
proof, 64 holes to
square inch—
Sheet 6/6
Half sheet .... 3/6
14 Mesh
BRONZE
MATERIALS FOR DOORS.
We supply .these, in. sets comprising:. 1 Set Dressed Timber and Beading; 1 set of 6 Corner and Centre Brackets (Xu
202); I pair of Spring Hinges; 1 Door Handle; Brads and Tacks; and sufficient Woven Wire to complete.
df
For Doors up to 6ft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin.
With Oregon Timber and
Bronze Wire . . . . 18/3
With Redwood Tipnber and
Bronze Wire .. .. 18/3
7ft. x 3ft.
20/3 set
20/3 set
By using the Corner and Centre Brackets supplied with Sets, no mortising is required, thus enabling the amateur to
make and fit a Fly Door equal in every way to any Fly Door on the market.
NOTE. The Timber in these Sets is cut for approximately 7ft. x 3ft. Doors. Before setting up, measure off the size
required for YOUR door and cut accordingly. See illustration XU 1.
Oregon Wood Sets only, to make Doors up to 7ft. x 3ft 6/9 set
Redwood Wood Sets only, to make Doors up to 7ft. x 3ft 6/9 set
Half-round Redwood Beading 7d. per 7ft. length
£315/- All Steel Ships’ Tanks
m
o md o
B
Only from Anthony Horderns’ can
such a marvellous value come! The
water tank, as illustrated, is made
of all steel, with specially strength-
ened corners. As these tanks are
only to carry goods, we do not
guarantee them to be watertight.
50
DIMENSIONS:
3ft. 3in. square, capable of holding 200 gallons. The
approximate weight of the tank is 2cwt.; 15-gauge steel
sides.
USES:
These tanks are being more and more adopted for pack-
ing every variety of goods, and are extensively used for
storing Provisions, Dried Fruits, Seeds and other perish-
able goods. There should be’one of these tanks on every
station—they repay their cost times over by preserving
their contents for a long period of time.
If required, tanks will be bored to take a tap for
, 7/6 extra.
I'in. Tap for same 3/6
# (Freight and packing for country extra.)
Ready-made
Fly Proof Doors
■ mm
■
■hi
';. i;'/!
ns
w
■SH
No. I Fly Proof Door (as
illustrated) made from 3 x 1
inch well-dressed timber.
No. 2 Fly Proof Door made
from well-dressed timber, 3 x
1 inch side rails and 6 x 1
inch top and bottom rail.
No. 3—Fly Proof Door made
from well-dressed timber as
No. 2, with extra cross rails
on bottom panel.
No. s—Same as No. 2, but
has double panels top and
bottom, adding considerably
to its strength.
All doors quoted have gal-
vanised wire gauze and
thoroughly-seasoned Redwood
in the White.
2ft.6in. x 6ft.6in. 2ft.Bin. x 6ft.Bin.
No. 1 18/6 18/9
No. 2 20/- 20/9
No. 3 22/- 22/6
No. 4 22/9 23/6
No. 5 25/3 25/9
2ft.loin. X 6ft. 1 Oil). Bft. x 7ft.
No. 1 19/6 19/9
No. 2 21/- 21/9
No. 3 23/6 23/9
No. 4 23/9 24/3
No. 5 26/- 26/9
If supplied with latch lock, 3
butt hinges and stop bead,
price, 4/6 extra. We will
quote for and make Fly Proof
Doors to any design and to
any size. Quotation on appli-
cation.
Department Third Flour —Free
delivery City and Suburbs only.
vtT:
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
df


GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
POLICY:
The policy of the Commissioners is to conduct the
Bank so that deposits in the New Business Division will
he always accessible, and deposits in the Old Business
Division will be made accessible in the quickest possible
time.
T heir immediate object is the amelioration of dis-
tress; the utilisation of the Bank’s resources for the
benefit of individual depositors and of the State; and the
continuance of the Bank as a National asset.
To do this the Commissioners pledge themselves to
devote their time, energy and business experience. They
know that the object of success can be attained and that
the successful establishment of the Bank will benefit,
primarily, every depositor in the Old Business Division,
and, secondly, every merchant, trader and wage earner
in the State. Knowing this the Commissioners believe
that the Bank will be supported, not only by those it
has assisted in the past, but by those it will equally assist
in the future
Through itr, loans, advances, assistance and interest
payments, the Government Savings Dank of New Sourh
Wales materially helped to devc op this State. And it
will do so again.
From the community it needs only one thing—
CONFIDENCE.
In expressing this confidence by opening new
accounts, depositors in the Old Division will immedi-
ately assist themselves, because every penny the Bank
earns will be carefully conserved and directed to liquidat-
ing accounts in the Old Division.
The more quickly money is earned by the New
Division the more quickly will these Old Deposits be
available for free and unrestricted liquidation.
Confidence similarly expressed by new depositors
will be reflected in the speedier rehabilitation of the
finances of the State and the improvement of business
conditions by the re’ease of money.
EARNING CAPACITY OF THE BANK:
The capacity of the Bank to earn profits even under adverse
circumstances is shown by the fact that the aggregate net profits
for all Departments for the year ended June 30, 1931, total £392,962.
Of this total the Savings Bank Department earned a net profit
of £310,975, which, compared with the average annual net profit
of £365,650, over the previous eight years, shows a decrease of
only 1 5 per cent.
The Rural Bank Department made a profit of £61,43 7, and the
Advances for Homes Department showed a profit of £19,255, even
after the special reserve for meeting possible losses of interest had
been substantially increased during the trading year. During the
same period the Government Housing Department made a profit of
£1293.
Under any circumstances the Bank should continue to earn
handsome profits. Its investment of £29,000,000 in Commonwealth
Securities will return an income of approximately £1,100,000 per
annum, and the soundness of every Department of the Bank is
proved by the profits from last year, part of which were earned
even after the Bank had suspended some of its activities.
ASSETS:
The combined assets of all departments of the Bank total
£90,625,849, which is more than 20 shillings in the £ as compared
with total liabilities.
RESERVES:
The disclosed reserves of all departments of the Bank total
£3,543,188.
The written-down book value of properties owned by the Bank
is only £1,740,000, including the New Head Office, whereas indepen-
dent valuations declare these properties to be worth £2,83-3,520.
All these factors are reasons why accounts in the New Business
Division will be entirely secure, and why the continuance of the
Bank’s activities should lead to the early liquidation of accounts in
the Old Business Division
SERVICES:
At the present time the Bank is assisting and sustaining all
classes of business and individuals who live in the State,
From the Savings Bank Department, loans on mortgage totalling
£2,431,939, representing 2500 separate loans to business houses,
merchants and individuals, are outstanding.
The loans to City, Municipal and Shire Councils are approxi-
mately £2,900,000, money which is used to provide employment,
and to increase the capital value of property in the Municipalities.
In the Advances for Homes Department, existing loans number
24,09 7 and total £12,661,341, which return a monthly income of
more than £BO,OOO, and are secured by property valued by Insurance
Companies at £18,000,000, plus land worth approximately
£4,000,000, a total security of £22,000,000
To the Rural Bank Department a total of £14,421,268 —repre-
senting advances to 15,000 individuals—is owed by the primary
producers of this State. This means that one in every eight primary
producers in New South Wales is being assisted by the Rural Bank
Department of the Government Savings Bank.
INVESTMENTS WITHIN THE STATE:
One quarter of the assets of the Bank in the New Division will
be kept liquid, which means that they are alwhys available for use
of depositors.
This is a far greater proportion than is maintained by almost
any other bank in Australia.
At the present time the Bank holds £29,000,000 of Common-
wealth Treasury Stock, which is £9,000,000 more than the total of
£20,000,000 held by all the joint stock banks together.
The whole of the profits made by the Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales are invested in New South Wales for the benefit
of the citizens of this State. This is not done by any other Bank
operating in New South Wales.
INTEREST:
Interest rates on accounts in the New Business Division of the
Savings Bank will be per cent, up to £5OO, and 3 per cent, from
£5OO to £lOOO. Interest at the rate of 3J per cent, will be paid on
Friendly Societies’ accounts on all balances up to a maximum to be
approved by the Commissioners.
No fee will be charged for keeping accounts in the New Business
Division of the Rural Bank up to December 31, 1931.
DIRECTION:
The direction of the Bank is vested entirely in the Commis-
sioners. It is free of political control, free of any influence except
the desire to serve the community. It will be operated in the spirit
of service in its widest sense to the community. The reinvigora-
tion of the Bank offers the community an extraordinary opportunity
to help itself.
The New Business Division of the Bank is founded on a Parlia-
mentary Charter of exactly the same kind as every other bank. This
Charter can be withdrawn only by Act of Parliament, as would be
necessary to withdraw the Charter of any other bank.
Having carefully examined the position of the
Government Savings Bank, and found overwhelming
reasons why it should be continued n its present form,
the Commissioners place this frank declaration of its
affairs before the citizens of New South Wales so that
they can be assured of the soundness of the institution,
the excellence of its business position, and the absence
of any reason why its future should not be a complete
success.
From September 7 onward the Bank will conduct all
classes of new business, and the Commissioners ask every
citizen to express confidence in the Bank’s unassailable
future by becoming a depositor with its nearest branch
as soon as possible after the opening, and interest for the
full month will be allowed on deposits made on that or
the following day.
The inescapable fact is that the success of the Bank
and the brighter future of New South Wales cannot be
separated. Every person who helps to fortify the Bank
helps himself.
The Commissioners of the Government Savings Bank of New South Wales:
W. H. O’MALLEY WOOD (President)
J. H. BUTTERS (Vice-President)
WILLIAM VICARS, CLIFTON LOVE, M. B. YOUNG (Commissioner)


TO MEASURE
t3<o
%
I
it
!,l fl
ik.
aSO
*6
H7i
• r
MURDOCH’S
New Reduced Prices
in Tailoring
THIS is Murdoch’s practical
effort to help clients’ reduced
purchasing power, a drastic
lowering of prices throughout the
Store. Murdoch’s unimpeachable
quality of material and workman-
ship remains unaltered, despite
these “rockbottom” prices.
To your measure
£3/10/-
Formerly £4/19/6
ALL full-bodied cloths —no cheap
lightweight materials! There
are pure-wool Worsteds,
popular Thornproof Tweeds and
pure Indigo-dye Serges for you 'to
choose from. All the latest pat-
terns are available. IVXurdoch
tailored to your
wishes for jES^IC)/”
ALSO £5/10/- Suits to
Measure for ....
AND £6/6/- Suits to
Measure for . . ]l9/(>
Patterns are FREE
Send for complete range of pat-
terns at-the new reduced prices
no obligation.
We pay freight.
Address all letters to Desk "It."
SYDNEY
“The Store that Saves You Money.”
a bough with the tip of my finger, millions
of bees growled at me—even as Alnca
Speaks.”
Perhaps my most memorable impression
was the shadow of a butterfly, undulating,
like the tiniest handkerchief, across a cloud
of flowering peach.
But, when the lemons presented their
breasts to me, in imitation of Chinese
brides coming between lattices of chloropnyl
green, I exclaimed to them, “Ky-ahng
Fo-mee-shi-ko Ming-sha-lee Lee-sha-chang.
“Darling sisters. Peace and happiness. I
have a friend called Alfred Hill who shall
play to you the music that is written m
your hearts.”
HUCH MCCTAE.
Edward Dyson
In Edward Dyson’s work there are few
of the qualities that make for permanency
and many of the weaknesses that ensure
oblivion. It cannot be said that he was a
great writer, even in a literature of which
the adjective has always to be used at
the critic’s peril. Yet there is none of his
representative work which, if it were being
written now, would not brighten any paper
that published it. His best book, Fact’ry
binds, has importance above the fact that it
bred the Sentimental Bloke, and also above
its unattractive title.
In the more popular The Golden Shanty
Dyson’s faults are most glaringly apparent.
Scarcely anybody in it has real life, and the
narrative content is slight, except in the title
story, a whimsical fancy not at all badly
handled. Generally, it is surface stuff, and
the efforts to get under the surface here
and there develop, as in “Mr. and Mrs.
Sin Fat,” into melodrama, or merely leave
the impression, as in “After the Accident,”
of piling on the agony. Most of the humor,
too, depends on polysyllabic meanderings,
such as:—
... .his ever-watchful eye is open to detect an
opportunity, however trifling 1 , of increasing- his
diurnal income, and when he espies a goose, obese
and matronly, making frantic endeavors to squeeze
her portly form through a small aperture in a fowl-
house behind a private residence, his soul is in-
stantly fired with ' a desire to possess her —to call
her his own, if only for a few hours.
It is an easy thought that the influence
responsible for that kind of word-spinning
is indicated in what he wrote, apropos of
himself, in 1912:
To succeed fairly well from the breadwinner’s
point of view, as a semi-detached contributor in Aus-
tralian journalism, this machine-like productiveness
is essential. Quantity pays better than quality....
like Trollope’s more historic one, a rather
risky revelation. But the fact is that in
this book that style is inherent. If it were
not; if it were written on the quantity-pays
principle only, it would almost certainly
have been pruned on the way from news-
paper columns to book; though there may
be an indication that Dyson was a little
careless of his work in the fact that in one
story in this same book there is a fight
over a barmaid, and then the first fight over
her is described as happening several pages
further on. But, for all the diffuseness and
the shakiness of most of the narrative, the
book is as rich in a specific Australian atmo-
sphere as any other collection of sketches
outside Lawson.
The Australia Dyson specialised in was
that of the worked-out Victorian goldfields,
about which he himself fossicked before he
was eleven, “wagging it” for the purpose.
Though his pen never sank deeply into the
character of his bush people, they live very
clearly in a surface fashion, and the dirt on
their boots is not all that is peculiarly Aus-
tralian about them. The Golden Shanty and
much of Dyson’s swinging but indifferent
verse came from that goldfields’ fossicking,
of which easily the best find was the know-
ledge he acquired of the coolie Chinese,
whom he hated, and who have their bland
revenge in being the truest creations in this
section of his work. Here and elsewhere
he wrote directly from experience—a trifle
too directly. At 121 he was “assistant and
housekeeper with a hawker of drygoods,”
doing the mining fields and navvies’ camps,
experience that broke out in the farce of
Tommy the Hawker.
The work which seems to me easily his
best, the abominably titled one, also came
directly from experience; two or three years
of his youth were spent in a Melbourne
factory. There is a remarkable difference
in the styles of The Golden Shanty and
this book. Instead of the long wordspin-
ning there is brisk and even snappy state-
ment. Merely, “He suggested an amorous
adjutant bird,” conveys Mr. Ellis. The style
is sustained:—
The idea of Fuzzy as a lover was the acme of
the incongruous; he was so arid, so nervous, so
thin and so inhuman. No one had any idea of his
age, but lie looked like a man who had dried up
at the age of 36, and had since been free of all
human infirmities....
That afternoon Fuzzy gave Sarah a brooch. It
was of an ancient device, and had lost a stone,
but was large and had some value as old g01d....
‘You do so grow on a body,” she whispered one
morning, and this excited Fuzzy to such a degree
that he was bumping into things three hours later.
There is direct action and ginger in it, as
there is also in the incident of most of
these stories, which altogether, and in one
instance in particular (“A Question of Pro-
priety”), present a picture of Australian
factory life of very uncommon clearness,
and, for all its caricatures, of fine human
truth. For Fact’ry ’Ands alone Dyson de-
serves to be remembered—that is, read
gratefully by Australia for at least a little
longer.
MCD.
A Professor’s Fiction
The G.O.M. of Maoriland science and
letters, Prof. Macmillan Brown, has just
given one reviewer a painful shock. He has
made him realise that Time is not an illu-
sion but a sad reality. Having long been
familiar with the professor’s scientific works,
his Peoples and Problems of the Pacific, his
fascinating Riddle of the Pacific and other
outpourings of his extraordinary vitality,
present writer now learns that at a time
when he was finding Euclid’s first proposi-
tion an insurmountable obstacle the veteran
was engaged in writing fiction. The informa-
tion comes in the shape of two fat reprints
by the Oxford University Press of RiallarO,
or the Archipelago of Exiles, and Limanora,
or the Island of Progress (each 7s. 6d.).
Into the two books the Chancellor of the
University of New Zealand has emptied his
philosophy. He imagines voyagers from
Maoriland stumbling on a group of islands
with an indigenous civilisation. It is like
no existing civilisation, and is probably
unlike any civilisation of the future, but
certain tendencies apparent in 1897, and
still more apparent at the present moment,
are carried to their more or less logical
conclusion. The professor is an ardent anti-
socialist and believer in the doctrine of the
survival of the fittest, and the fate of a
society which tries to transcend natural laws
is painted with the brush of sincerity. There
is fine satire in the two volumes, but they
are overlong for modern readers. They
were first published in 1897. The ’nineties
were a more leisurely age, apparently. The
pair run to a total of 1131 pages.
F.S.
A Satchel of Books
Herd Riders, by diaries Wesley Sanders
(Collins; 7s. 6d. net). Wild West, and poor
at that.
Saint Johnston, by W. R. Burnett (Heine-
mann; 7s. 6d. net). Set in one of those
Arizona towns where shooting each other
is the inhabitants’ principal industry. Brisk,
meaty stuff, miles above the average of its
kind.
Admiral Blades, by R. J. White (Hodder
and Stoughton; Dymocks; 7s. 6d. net). A
Farnolish spy story, set in 1793, and nicely
sprinkled with pinkings, mistaken identity,
mysterious night-riders and loyalty. Brisk
and hearty reading.
Kittens, by Svend Fleuron (Gyldenal;
Roycroft; 65.). (Charming animal study,
translated from the Danish by David Prit-
chard. The conflict centres in an old
lady cat’s shrewd efforts to save her kittens
from man, dog and other predatory beasts
about the farm. The writer leaves bis cats
as cats, but through fine detail contrives to
make them as interesting as they are real.
Scotch and Water, by Guy Gilpatric
(Bodley Head; 7s. 6d. net). A new and
very good humorist presents Colin Glen-
cannon, chief engineer of tlie Inchcliffe
Castle, in sundry ports and various states of
intoxication. The amount of whisky his
characters can drink, even allowing that
they belong to a race that regards whisky
as a heavenly milk, is something prodigious
and the effects are extraordinary. It would
be a very sour wowser who could find no-
thing to laugh at here.
Desmond Coke’s Stanton (Chapman and
Hall; 7s. 6d. net) postulates that the form
of vice which has been advertised in so many
novels about English schools is confined to
public schools and is the product of bore-
dom. Rex Gordon, who went to Beach House
when it was a small private school, returns
as headmaster after it has develoned into
Stanton —a shoddy Winchester. His pre-
decessor, Mr. Walden, who was responsible
for tlie change, has to listen to such heresies
as this:—
“Sport ? I can see it growing to be the biggest
mischief there can be, itself. Look at the posters
and headlines already! ‘Disaster to England’
Where? Why, naturally at Lords. Do you think the
press or public schools will get away with that stuff
for ever? Boys grow up earlier, these days. It’ll be
found soon they grow up too early, resenting this
dreary life, just work and games. Then I see the
moment of the private school.”
He ends by making Stanton into Beach
House again—a little place with only a
hundred pupils—and the shock kills old
Walden. The indictment of the English
public school system is judicially done, and
the boys are a natural and likeable lot.
And a Little Verse
“Eire.”
Fire, fire, fire ! It.is shouting and screaming ;
The hoses are hissing, the hot bricks are
steaming.
The tall man cranes forward, in horror he
gazes,
The wild eye protrudes and with terror it
glazes....
The word is as lean and as lithe as a flame;
It quite looks the part, whencesoever it
came.
But Shakspeare’s old “fier” might just catch
the fat —
Why, I’d sit down and warm my cold fingers
at that!
MAORILAND.
ARNOLD WALL.
THE MOMENT.
When the dark shadows of white birds pass
over the soundless water,
Over the. soundless water and out of sight,
The heart itself is emptied of all but silence,
Of all but silence and that deep, slow
delight
Such as a river, that has been prisoned dully
Under tlie matted arms of heavy trees,
Knows when its current, flowing into ful-
ness.
Comes to a place of sunlit fields and
flowers and bees,
And all is forgotten, save the peace and still-
ness,
The glowing warmth, the gay and quiet
sky,
The light that leaps across the radiant
meadows
And catches Beauty’s very spirit going by.
MAORILAND.
UAN CURRLE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is' undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
minted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
Please: No secret about it. The “Bert
and Gert” drawings arc Scorfield’s. It’s a line he
made well known in England before , he came to
The B. eight or nine years ago... .'Ground F.: “The
Dog” has no ear for rhyme... .H. 8.: Not enough in
the incident to support all that verse.... 8.F.:
No space for “Political and Financial Doggerel,” or
any other variety of it... .M.J.C.: License suspended
till after spring for rhyming “September” with
“splendour”... .11.L.W.: A jerky metre... .M.M.C.:
Strong men wept over “they know a spado throng
of Stygian hopes , and a luring song, assuaging their
seeking ken”. ... J.S.W.: Merit in both, but they’re
not compelling enough to break open the cash-box.
. ...A.M.: Thought there, but you don’t manage to
express it.... Memo: Your muse is suffering from
frayed edges... .J.T.H.: No rush for “Robinson’s.”
... . Zealandia D.: Don’t get above the ordinary
T.M.: “Paddy’s Way Out” had to be via basket
LIO’C.L. : “I sing to live!” Well, you’re taking a
risk using both sides of the paper... .P.C.H.: Try
again when you’re a bit older... .S.J.J.: Leave
-Steele Rudd to his own selection... .T.li.: Can’t
retell the sailor’s yarn... .G.P.D.: True; alas, very
true... .A.C.8.: Dialect a bit tangled... .S.C.C.:
None sounds as if you really meant it....
C.E.G.C.: You’ll have to learn that things like
“sullies our fair name” are cliches.... A. J.F.: A
spectacular tragedy:—
My wife she knitted a pretty blue frock,
And a wee blue cap for her hair.
She wore it to church; got caught on a nail,
And when she got home she was bare.
... .G.H.P.F.: Killed by fierce rhyme in second
stanza... .E.J.M.: Not even a peg for a paragraph — .
The Idler: Fairish in places....D. Ennis: Another
poet has already said this column’s say on that
statue....El Dorado: Not keen on nursery-rhyme
efforts.... Don E.: Can’t rise to the imagery of the
cold breezes sighing in the arms of the trees....
F.D.L.: “Lo, I am Spring—do you know me?” Er,
the name seems familiar, m’dear... .E.M.L.: Rhe-
toric’s a trifle stagey... .P.K.: Can’t detect any true
spirit in it...,Ferro: Says a number of old things
not very we 11... .D.S.: All right as far as reason
goes; as rhyme it could be better... .A.K.: The
question is not much of a poem; the answer to it
might ha-ve possibilities... .S.F.: The idea is all
right, but Kendall treated it a lot better... .J.D.:
A bit lugubrious.... Freeman: “Theology” went
close. M.J.C.: Tested the stout heart of the basket.
. ...P.R.: Not to this taste.... A.S.: Somewhat
obvious ending... .Selma: Amazing that you should
have failed to see that Richardson deliberately
“misuses” her commas to convey a visual picture
of the lady speaking... .Thirty-five: Have a man
there specially handling that job... .L.P.1.: Very
stiff in the joints... .N.D.A.: However you disagree,
you can’t be allowed to express it in that language.
. ...1.W.: It doesn’t clear the hurdles gracefully.
. ...S.P.: An overworked gesture J.M.C.: Roughly
done... .A.W.S.: Dreary... .C.L.: Helen is trudging
home. E.J.L.: Sponge-in-the-bottle trick took a
long time to reach your part of the w0r1d,...
R.D.8.: Some merit, but needs crisper treatment.
C.L.L.: You ought to be able to write about
the Great Australian Adjective with more vim than
that J.E.K.: Pitch your stories in Australia
L.G.: He’s a photographer and was here about
a year ago. The book is by Adcock E.T.S.: Had
to buy a special bulrush basket for “Moses Speaks.”
Bellerive: Have your say:—
EDWARD DYSON.
After a lingering illness
They lowered down
Mr. Edward Dyson,
Of literary renown.
Rhymes and tales of
The mines from lie’s pen,
And humorous prose,
Appealed to men.
The magic of lie’s art
Its influence shed,
Till advancing years
O’er the writer sped.
He’s task was done,
He’s busy life did close.
In he’s sixties he sank
Into death’s repose.
A charm to the young,
And the grey and old,
Is he’s Roaring Fifties
Of the days of gold.
... .L.W.F.: No market for schoolboy howlers or
essays by infant prodigies... .G.Q.X.C.: Good par.,
but the subject is exhausted... ,F. 8.: “Back Again”
must be its fate, although it has a swing of its own.
. ...D.D.: Poem on woollen night attire regretfully
rejected E.T.: “The House That Lang Built”
condemned by our clerk of works.. . .Uckle: No, the
“Bruce”—“juice” rhyme didn’t kill it; it was dead
anyhow Roameo: Poor rhymio... .Esau: Clever,
but afraid your “Belle Dame” can’t enter here
F.S. and H.C.: No space for long narrative verse
these times J. 8.: Won’t do E.V.8.: Two lines
full of tender grace from “In a Dairy”:—
Here’s Daisy coming in;
She’ll fill the blooming tin.
....H.8.: “The Muster” reads more like a circus
turn... .D.8.0’C.: “Something About Nothing” con-
tains insufficient something. .. .W.M.: Poor stuff on
dreadful paper. And if you want rejects returned
you must send stamps with them... .E.R.G.: Cloddy
rendering of “The Pal that I Loved Stole the Girl
that I Loved” theme R. 8.: Confused and un-
interesting 8.C.: Amorous cop is off his beat
here... .A.J.8.: Feeble 11.M.E.: Wild and woolly.
K.L.: Like them a third of that length W.G.S.:
All fizzle and no bang J.M.: Plot too big for you.
. ...L.A.W.: Forced humor J.E.K.: Expect you to
do better things H.M.: But we don’t want readers
to feel they have wasted their sixpences... .J. 11.:
You went after big game and bowled over a bilby.
. ...L.E.: Found it foolish... .A. F.L.: Better stick
to chasing hens L.L.: Lacks your usual smartness.
N.A.O.R.: Can’t believe it would happen
V.T.: Not far off Aitch B.: Good idea, but—the
handling! E.M.: Ordinary... .J.G.E.: Fine idea
butchered.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.L.C.: What is Dave trying to ride? A unicorn?
A.M.: Voice of a Digger, certainly, but you dress
him like a Pork-and-cheese boy scout... .W.S.: Offer
to illustrate “cheery business slogans” declined....
J. 8.: None of them marketable C.F.E.: Keep on,
but don’t use merry-go-round horses as models
F. : Let yourself go a bit B.B.: The turtle-rider
came a cropper H.J.J.: She’s a very disjointed
damsel... .J.W.F. : Even the heads of drunks are
attached to their bodies.... M.W.: Heaps of faults in
it G.P.: You draw fingers as if they were clothes*
pegs... .8.N.: You’ll have to throw them together
better... .11. D.: You rip up every second one. Per-
centage too low H.R.V.: It raised no chuckles
G. : Don’t dabble in wash until you have learned
to draw.


d
ď
w
K-**'
K
■ft
iMv I
* «
....
.
Ss §s«
■
Hi
: m
■I
II
flv?
■
■'ft
'■ ft
I
ft -
i '
asm
i ** I ms?
H
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,
mm*
HRSH
mmßmk
1
fm .v.
n| ftt:
n
■tali
■ i
lIE
* * .
Mmm
■-.-ft'
mh
:
■ft
•ft:
ft
■
.
1
:
■■..... '
■
■■ aMfiS'y- " • ■■•
■ ft.
s’ 9Hg| -1
ft i ; S?-
■ ■ J
li • . -ft - S
,
;
#


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2991.
September 9, 1931.
THE PILGRIMS.
Insurance and investment companies in Britain have mobilised £100,000,000 of their foreign securities to stem the attack on the nation’s credit.’
THE LABOR PILGRIM: “Well, I’ll take it, because it may save my life; but, mind you, I’ll still claim the right to call you a bowelless oppressor the minute I’ve
reached safety.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21\ George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ■'Phone 87971.
Victoria : llj-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 289 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 I/s. ; 6 months, 12s. od. ;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Od.; 8 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd,
HOW TO START WORK.
The re-employment of the Australians who
are out of work dwarfs every other local
question. Yet it is in itself an easy pro-
blem, only made difficult by men’s own
obstinacies and suspicions. These unem-
ployed can be regarded as a little world in
themselves. They want just as much as
ever they did and are as capable of pro-
ducing for their own.and others’ needs. If
they were transferred to some isolated place
where they would have to keep themselves
they would do it, given fair natural advant-
ages; if they were provided with stores of
food to draw upon and tools and plant, they
would do it very well. Yet, as well as the
stores of food, the tools and plant are here
in abundance: there are enough of such
things idle to serve many more than the
300,000 unemployed. Why are they not
using these things and supplying their own
needs?
The Bulletin acquired premises for a
new home a few weeks ago. That in itself
meant nothing: it was a matter mostly of
signing a few papers. But something else
had to follow. The premises had to be
made to suit their new purpose. That did
mean something: it meant employing men
to reinforce floors and make structural
alterations; it meant a call for steel and
cement, for timber, for electrical appliances.
It meant giving a small lift directly to a
score of industries, and indirectly to almost
every industry in the country—to the
butcher, the baker, the shoemaker, the
tailor, the fruit and vegetable growers and
all others who serve the carpenter, the
mason, the builder’s laborer, the timber-
getter, the cement-maker, the coalminer and
the quarryman. It was a small job; yet the
money, once liberated, went on making
larger and larger circles. Why are there
not more of these jobs?
In the first place, because of the difficulty
of getting the few thousands which they
cost. But there would be no danger in
securing credit if the banker'was satisfied
that the money would come back to him.
Mr. Theodore proposed a fiduciary note
issue in order to make credit available. The
danger of fiduciary note issues is that they
may—and in certain circumstances assur-
edly will—be used to finance non-productive
works; and therefore the Theodore scheme
was resisted. On the other hand, the giving
of credit to finance productive work is the
banker’s regular job. The chief reason he
is not doing more of it now is that he lacks
confidence that the goods produced will
find a market. Yet a market is here—in
the hundreds of thousands who are unem-
ployed and therefore without purchasing
power. Give them employment, put money
into their pockets, and they will use it.
There is a danger, of course, that they
may use it to purchase goods produced
abroad, and thus employing others than our-
selves, in which case only a portion of the
money would come back to us. In any
organised extension of credit care would
theretore have to be taken that it was used
only in industries which employed our own
people. And the primary producer must be
considered: he is another problem, dove-
tailing with this one. His product is for the
most part required to finance necessary
foreign purchases and pay interest charges
abroad. In doing that he is not in the least
assisted by the maintenance of an army of
unemployed. On the contrary, since they
mean higher taxation for the payment of
a dole, their absorption into secondary in-
dustries would relieve him. Moreover, the
extension of the local market would be some
help. The costs which are starving him are
largely taxation charges, due to over-
employment on public services and the
maintenance of unemployed; also the exces-
sive overhead charges upon secondary in-
dustries, and they are due largely to reduced
outputs. Wages in some industries are
also excessive, and entirely out of har-
mony with the prices which the primary
producer can get for his goods abroad. If
it were not for that factor it would not
matter much what wages we paid; but be-
cause of it a reduction of costs is essential,
partly through lower wages, but probably
more through a better output per man.
Whatever the worker loses in nominal wages
he will, however, recover in lower cost of
living and more regular employment.
Apart, then, from a very few men on the
Labor side nobody gains by keeping the
thousands of men idle. They are a burden
upon finance and upon employers and em-
ployees alike. Yet nothing which has been
done hitherto goes any distance worth men-
tioning towards restoring them to employ-
ment. The Premiers’ Plan is a small help;
but it will not directly do anything to re-
employ men. It must be followed by much
more direct action. First and most im-
portant, the banker must be given confi-
dence to extend the credit upon which a
revival of industry and trade can alone be
built. To secure that confidence he must
be assured that his advances will come back
to him. The employer and the employee
can do more than anybody or anything else
to give that assurance. In fact, nobody
else can give it. In particular the banker
will want to know from them that costs
will not be put up against the primary pro-
ducers, in whom he is tremendously inter-
ested.
Much is talked about extension of credit.
The best informed of the Labor men are
confident that this is the key to the whole
difficult situation. To a very great extent
they are right. What they do not so clearly
recognise—or if they recognise it thej' do
not say it—is that the authority # which
grants the credit has the right to require
that it shall be shown that the money will
come back. It does not matter who gives
the credit —banker or community. If the
money is ill spent, it means losses and
trouble. In the past it was the community
which was responsible for the credit: we
got over 1100 millions on those terms, and
beyond producing boom conditions while
they were being spent, we got little good
out of it, and are now reaping a great har-
vest of hardship and distress. Now that we
need more credit and cannot get it from
the old sources, we turn to the banker, and
in the light of our own experience his right
to see to his security is surely obvious.
Nothing can come to us by doing no-
thing—by just letting things drift. Nothing
can come to us either by trusting to the
politicians. The only men who can give
finance the confidence which it must have
before it can extend the necessary credit
are the employees, the employers and the
politicians, in that order; and they cannot
give it by sitting apart, each in their own
little cave. They must be brought together.
Labor says it knows that additional credit
is the corner-stone of prosperity; it knows
that credit can come only from the com-
munity or the bankers; and it knows that
the Senate will not allow of any such fidu-
ciary-note issue as some of the Labor econo-
mists contemplated. That throws us back
on the bankers; and if we refuse to get the
credit through them, we deliberately com-
mit these thousands of unemployed to inde-
finite unemployment. It is unthinkable that
we should do any such thing. Yet if Labor
is prepared to make terms in order to get
the credit which it says is indispensable, it
can only do it by getting into touch with
the employers; and together they must get
into touch with the bankers. That done,
there is no reason whatever why within
three months there should not be at least
100,000 more men drawing good honest
wages.
A CALL TO YOUNG AUSTRALIA.
Pear Bulletin, —We are three young Australians,
21 to 23, sincerely anxious to take more interest
in the politics of our country. We have no very
definite opinions except those we have formed with
The Bulletin's help during the past year or so.
We see that Australia’s system of government must
have been very wrong; and we are satisfied that there
is a grave danger in Communism. We are also
satisfied that Labor has got into wrong hands and
has too many false ideas. Yet when we turn to the
Nationalists we are repelled by their dulness, their
Conservatism, their unimaginativeness. We had
hopes of the A.F.A., but they have faded. With
many others we have come to look to The Bulletin
for a lead in these difficult times, and we ask for
one now. What should we do?— We Three.
This is typical of scores of letters which are
reaching The Bulletin; and they are one
of the most hopeful features of the situa-
tion, since they show that Young Australia
is being roused.
The first question which arises is whether
the British (and United States) system or
the Continental is the better. In Britain
(and the U.S.A.) there are two —at the
most three—great political parties. The
yoters are, therefore, called upon to make
compromises: in theory, at any rate, they
decide which of the two or three parties
offers a policy nearest to their own indi-
vidual wishes. The idea behind this is that
stable and efficient government can only
be looked for from a Ministry which has a
majority of the people behind it, even
though many of these people cannot go the
whole way with that Ministry. The Con-
tinental system allows —again in theory—•
of greater individual expression on the
part of the electors. The German Reich-
stag, for example, consists of at least 23
separate groups, including several divisions
of the Socialist and Communist parties.
But although an elector may thus belong to
a party more exactly expressing his views
on one or more subjects which he regards
as of supreme importance, no single party
in the Reichstag has a majority or anything
like a majority; hence it is not possible for
any Government to carry through the policy
of a single party. Coalitions are inevit-
able. This means support in return for
concessions. We have seen even at Can-
berra what the result of that may be: we
have seen the Government accepting a
policy imposed on it by a group of less than
half a dozen in order to secure their neces-
sary votes; in other words, less than half
a dozen men have had their way in a House
of 76 members.
The obvious result of this group system,
of which the accidental division of the Labor
party in the Federal Parliament has given
us a taste, is that nobody knows what a
Government will do. Its own small group
has its policy; but that policy has to be
adjusted in order to keep a majority. Under
the British system the electors make their
own compromises; under the Continental
system the compromises are made for them.
Under the British system the Government
may not do all that we would like it to do;
but we can at least be sure that it will not
do certain things. Under the Continental
system there is no assurance that it will
either do or refrain from doing anything.
In present circumstances there seem to
be substantial advantages about the British
system. There may be a better than either:
proportional representation with elective
Ministries, for example. But the two great
systems in actual being both call for com-
promises; and that is the first lesson Young
Australia has to learn. He will not find
any party of more than one in entire accord
with his own opinions.
The Roman Catholic Church has been a
long time in the ecclesiastical business and
has learned most of what there is to know
about it. It does not let its Wesleys drift
out and set up new sects: it gives them jobs
within the old church. The Communist
party knows the wisdom of non-severance,
too. It uses every effort, while distracting
attention from itself, to work from within
some great party—usually, of course, the
Labor party. The policy has been called
“white-anting,” but it is much more than
that. It is a policy of cautious proselytising
and especially of seizing the strategic, posi-
tions.
The simple fact is that in strategy and
tactics both the Communists and the near-
Communists beat their opponents hollow.
Young men who show any sympathy for the
Left Wing are watched and nursed, and
gradually put where they will be most
effective. They are not left in any doubt
as to what they should be and do: they
are instructed in the Communist faith, and
are set to work in the Labor movement.
Of course the Nationalist party every-
where is old and fusty; and it will remain
old and fusty if it is not rejuvenated and
stirred up. Every party gets that way, if
youth and freshness do not do their duty
by it. So, too, the Labor party will steadily
pass into the hands of the Communists if
that section of Labor which is anti-Com-
munist, does not meet organisation within
the Labor party with organisation.
One of the qualities of Young Australia
is diffidence. If a tally were taken of the
inhabitants of the soap-boxes •in Australia
on any Sunday afternoon it would probably
be found that in proportion to population
the native-born are on no more than one-
tenth as many as the outlanders. This,
diffidence has done us great harm, inasmuch
as it has permitted the person from overseas
to exercise far too great an influence upon
our thought and life—far too great because
he has formed his opinions under conditions
entirely alien to our own, and has brought
with him alleged cures for ills from which we
never suffered. So the call to Young Aus-
tralia is urgent: he has not only to help
work out our salvation, he has to take the
lead in resisting damnation through the
prejudices brought with them by a certain
type of immigrant.
But it must be repeated that if the
Australian does his own thinking he will
not find, no matter where he looks, a poli-
tical body wholly agreeable to him. All
political progress is made through com-
promise; his duty is to choose the party
which wants to move in the direction near-
est to that which he has marked out for
himself, and then to swing its course still
nearer to his own —from inside.
THE DEPRESSION IN ASIA.
China only attracts notice to herself nowa-
days when some disaster of cosmic pro-
portions smites her. At present Hankow
is under 60 feet of water. Hankow is really
Hankow, Wuchang and Hanyang—each a
city as populous, if not as extensive in
area, as Melbourne and Sydney—wn.cn look
at each other across the Yangtze and the
Han rivers. Wuchang is a walled city
and the Mecca of Celestial republicans. It
was here that a prematurely-exploding
bomb started the revolution which ended
the dynasty of the Manchus without end-
ing the revolution. Hanyang is an indus-
trial city full of factoiy chimneys and
smells and hopeless poverty and inter-
national intrigue. Much of the intrigue
moves around the great ironworks, which
Japan covets, and over which she obtained
a controlling influence while her Allies were
busy winning the World War in Europe.
Hankow is a modern city. It has a Japan-
ese and French concession as trim as any
municipal paradise in Australia; and it
had a Russian concession until the Soviet
voluntarily gave up what it had already
lost during the Bolshevik revolution. It
had a British concession, too, until a
Chinese mob invaded it and the British
Government decided to accept what was
regarded as the inevitable. The British
concession is, therefore, now run, and on
the whole satisfactorily run, by a joint
municipal council composed of Chinese and
foreigners. Approximately five million
people live in and around the three metro-
poli.
There is a tendency to sentimentalise
over picturesque catastrophes like the Han-
kow flood as over such disasters as the
Japanese earthquake; but fa.r more suffer-
ing is produced by less spectacular causes,
before the West had conquered its own
economic system, it forced it on Asia. The
machine he invented is still riding on the
back of the European instead of the Euro-
pean riding on the back of the machine;
yet he had no compunction about intro-
ducing his Frankenstein monster to the
Oriental.
The Oriental is not a conservative, con-
trary to popular opinion. He took to Euro-
pean machinery like a crocodile to water.
Factories arose in all the treaty ports and
spread outside them. Joint-stock com-
panies, without a body to kick or a soul
to save, Western banking and credit sys-
tems, mass production and all the rest of
it were unloaded on the unsuspecting yellow
man. The first thing that happened was
that the village industries collapsed, the
guilds, the societies (miscalled secret) which
represented the Asiatic, idea of trades
unions, and other natural features of the
social landscape were blown to perdition.
The family system, which had endured for
thousands of years the shock of civil war,
the fall of dynasties, flood, famine and pes-
tilence, disintegrated, as sons and daughters
left the household hearth to earn the not-
excessive wages offered by the foreigner.
Horrible industrial suburbs began to
cluster round the factories. Chinese trade?
unionists began to feel the batons of Brit-
ish policemen as well as the bayonets of
Chinese soldiers. Communism recognised
conditions that were familiar and began to
rear its head; and all the impressive para-
phernalia of compulsory arbitration, collec-
tive bargaining and the rest of the
phenomena of the age-long struggle between
Capital and Labor became as commonplace
in Asia as elsewhere. Asiatic industry,
watered by European and American capi-
tal, grew apace, however, and now Chinese
and Japanese cotton goods are threatening
the products of Lancashire even in India.
So Asia was all in trim to receive its issu°
of the world depression. Over-production
necessitated foreign markets, and these were
closed by prohibitive tariffs.
The position to-day is as clearly defined
as anything can be in this world of change
and shifting values. The Flowery King-
dom is the cockpit of two contending inter-
national ideals—European individualism
and Soviet collectivism. Western Europe,
having command of the sea, has spread her
particular institutions from the Straits of
Bab el Mandeb to Shan Hai Guan. She
is indifferent as to whether an Asiatic coun-
try is republican, monarchic or an incon-
gruous mixture. What it must be is
capitalistic. Industrialists must have an
open market for their labor. Russia, having
command of the landways, has, in her turn,
enforced her own institutions. A chain of
Soviet republics stretches from the Black
Sea to Vladivostock. The State is the only
landlord and ostensibly the only banker.
The worker is ostensibly a servant of the
State. Production is ostensibly for use and
not profit. These two gigantic forces meet
in China; and that unfortunate country
is trying to produce, in the laboratory of
her teeming humanity, an acceptable amal-
gam. Up to date she has been well kicked
by both parties, and is making a fine
muddle of it.
What the outcome will be is "a matter
of prophecy, one of the most futile of
occupations. China looks across the Yel-
low Sea at her island neighbor and sees
there what her immediate destiny is likely
to be if she follows the example of Nippon.
The population of Japan is increasing at
the rate of nearly an annual million. The
farmer continues desperately to try to
make a living out of a pocket-handkerchief
holding which threatens to become a
postage-stamp holding. He varies rice-
growing with silkworm cultivation, but the
enormous silk trade with America is threat-
ened by rayon, a more and more efficient
substitute; so he has started frog-raising
as a solution of the population problem.
In his spare time, which is scanty, he riots
and burns landlords.
Meantime British gunboats are reported
to be steaming up the streets of Hankow
rescuing refugees, and business buildings
are collapsing.
FENG-SHUI.
Australia To-day.
Beguiled by lying tongues she lost her way
And wandered darkling, yet perversely
blind
To that clear guiding pure Light undefined
That never shone more brightly than to-day
When grim shapes front her and she stands
at bay,
Revolving wildly with unwilling mind
The silent mandate sacred to mankind:
The debts thou justly owest thou shalt pay.
Oh ! for a warrior with soul aflame,
Dashed with ideals of King Arthur’s breed.
To spurn her counsellors devoid of shame.
Disperse the sowers of destructive seed,
Exalt her to the world and prove his claim,
He serves her by decision swift: the deed!
What! and shall we who conquered every foe,
Nurtured on valiant virtues Britain bore
Through centuries of bale and wrath and
gore,
While all the laurels Freedom could bestow
Still crown her forehead and more sheaf-
like grow—
Shall we, stuffed with heroism to the core.
Turn caitiffs all and treasure it no more?
Foredoom ourselves to infamy? No ! No !
Not till rebuffs intimidate the heart
Of Britons dominant where’er they be,
Not till they’re beggared by a bankrupt
mart
And strike the Union Jack on every sea.
Not till our inborn chivalry depart
And we despise our mighty ancestry!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR ALBERT BAYLDON.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Bloated Public Service.
The Loan Council, meeting in Melbourne
last week, found that the Premiers’
Economy Plan called for drastic revision.
The aggregate deficit for the year had been
reckoned at £15,000,000; already it is clear
that it will be £18,000,000. At once the poli-
ticians suggested hunted hares looking for
cover: the fiduciary note issue was again
brought from its hiding-place, and partial
default in London was suggested as a very
suitable partner 'for it. We may have to
come to these things; but it will be an ever-
lasting disgrace to us if we do it before
exhausting every other possible resource.
Now, what are the simple facts about our
expenditure? We had better stick to the
“Commonwealth Year-Book” for the data,
because, although there are later figures, it
is safest to have them all on the one basis.
In 1913-14 the entire cost of Common-
wealth departments was £15,458,776. In
1928-29 it was £81,343,526. It is quite true
that in the meantime a war had happened;
but apart from the war altogether we get
amazing results:—
Cost or Commonwealth Departments.
1913-14. 1928-29.
Governor-General . . . . £17,815 £39,547
Parliament.. . . . . 243,163 557,245
Prime Minister .. . . 82,847 ) . r 1 r
External Affairs .. .. 678,974 j
Attorney-General . . . . 82,442 246,743
Home Affairs . . . . 152,299 176,716
■Treasury 2,787,034 11,502,409
Trade and Customs . . 730,458 . 1,634,115
Defence 2,950,722 4,104,508
Postmaster-General . . 5,157,022 12,680,725
Works 140,139
Health -- 291,113
Markets and Transport . . 449,172
Territories .. . . . . 471,486
Railways .. .. . . - 1,087,560
Total .. . . £12,882,776 £34,897,185
All other (ine. War Services,
Pensions, etc.) .. .. 2,576,000 46,446,341
Grand total .. . . £15,458,776 £81,343,526
Here we have a jump from 12 millions to
34 millions in the departmental expenditure
of the Commonwealth, at the very time
when, owing to the vast increase of “other
expenditure”—mostly war pensions and
other war-service costs —there was an im-
perative demand for close economy.
When we turn to State expenditure we
get’ these startling figures:-
Growth of State Expenditure.
1913-14. 1928-29.
X. S. Wales .. .. £17,701,851 £51,066,805
Victoria 10,717,642 28,104,947
Queensland . . .. . . 6,962,516 16.902,145
S. Australia . . .. 4,604,130 11,771,772
Westralia 5,340,754 10,223,919
Tasmania . . - - . • 1,235,014 2,855,977
Total . . - . £46,561,907 £120,925,560
This includes interest and charges on the
public debt.
During the early part of the war it may
have been necessary for the States to
undertake certain public works. Coming
forward, for that reason, to 1917-18, we get.
this comparison:—
Cost of State Government.
1917-18. 1928-29:
Public debt - . ■ • £15,213,535 £35,149,477
Departmental .. 40,160,419 85,776,088
Total . . . . £55,373,954 £120,925,565
Thus in State departmental expenditure
(that is, outgoings apart from interest and
all loan expenses), since the close of the
war there has been an increase of no less
than 114 p.c.; in interest charges, etc., there
has been an increase of 131 p.c., not one
penny of it being on war debt.
And during this period there has been no
rapid growth of population. On a per-head
basis the States’ expenditure has grown like
this:—
Aggregate State Expenditure Per Head.
1917-18. 1928-29.
Public debt charges .. £3 18 £5 11 2
Departmental .. .. 8 2 9 13 11 3
£ll 4 5 £l9 2 5
Combining the Commonwealth and State
departmental expenditure for 1917-18 and
1928-29, we reach these figures:—
1917-18. 1928-29.
Commonwealth .. . . £13,539,471 £34,897,185
State 40,160,419 85,925,565
Total . . . . £53,699,890 £120,822,750
This is a growth of £67,122,860 in 11 years,
at a time, as said just now, when the rapid
increase of war pensions, etc., demanded
strict economy.
Now a nation which has more than
doubled its cost of government in 11 years
proposes to square its accounts by cheating
its foreign creditors out of some of their
money, having successfully brought off a
somewhat similar but not quite so bad pro-
ceeding at home! At least, its politicians
propose to do that. But, thank Heaven, the
politicians are not the nation!
♦
“Bad Money Drives Out Good.”
Trade unions began their legalised career a
century ago as conspicuously good social
money. The cottage industries were going,
and the factories, with their fixed hours
and rigid discipline, were coming. Unscru-
pulous employers began to make their hands
work long hours under bad conditions, and
the conscience of the nation was touched
by the decline of the living standard of the
poor. Unionism became a revered institu-
tion. It performed splendid services in many
directions.
After the war unionism all over the
Empire—largely under Russian influences—
developed a new orientation. Patriotism be-
came bourgeois, and the Syndicalist doctrine
that the nation was the enemy of the
workers gained ground. N. S. Wales tram-
way men talked lately of a regulation
strike against the economy cuts of the Lang
Government, the theory being that a tram-
way employee is only a tramway employee;
that the more he can blackmail the State
out of by striking, the better for him and
his. It overlooks a truth which unionists
recognised 15 years ago—that, if the State
falls, its services and industries will fall too.
When the war-time boom in trade began
there was a corresponding boom in wages,
particularly in the U.S.A. Senator Reed
put forward his theory of “indefinite per-
fectability.” He argued that the industries
of America constituted a huge “truck” sys-
tem. It was the duty and business of every
employer to see that his neighbors paid
sky-high wages, because every night the re-
cipients would be in his shop. American
capitalists swallowed this as trustingly as
British capitalists had swallowed Freetrade
in Cobden’s day. It turned out that there
was no new formula for bringing heaven to
earth. Nothing had been discovered except
that for several years the bad money of
extravagance had been driving out the good
money of thrift.
With the definite departure of the high-
wage era the dole became a feature of the
world’s industrial landscape. Britain had
had it before the war, when 10 per cent, of
the workers were chronically out of work,
in the form of unemployment insurance.
Real unemployment insurance—workers,
employers and the State all contributed, and
there were provisions that effectively
banned loafers from participating. In 1920
its scope was enlarged to include practically
all classes of workers, and the contribution
system was altered in favor of the recipients
and against the taxpayers; then an allow-
ance to dependants was added; then the
time-limit was abolished (the dole can now
be drawn for life in England), and finally
the provision that dole-seekers must have
been refused “suitable employment” went.
The workers of Britain are supporting nearly
3,000,000 ex-workers in idleness, and the
T. U. Congress has actually suggested that
they should become a permanent charge on
the State, like the Navy.
The dole in its modern form is a double
disaster. N. S. Wales, where payments are
bigger and more easily come by than in the
other States, has over 100,000 on it. In
order to support them in something like
the style to which they have been accus-
tomed, wages have to be high and taxation
heavy. The tax for Child Endowment,
which is one of N.S.W.’s many doles, has
just been doubled, as the fund has been
found to be overdrawn £1,433.700. But be-
cause of heavy taxation and high wages
N. S. Wales industries are going to other
States, and the products of other States are
coming to N. S. Wales. Fitzsimons, M.L.A.,
told his constituents the other night:—
In N. S. Wales not less than 70 per cent, of the
hats, boots, shoes, blankets, woollen dress materials,
knitted wear, rugs, stockings, bags and suitings that
are being sold in the Sydney stores are manu-
factured in Victoria.
So employment languishes, and the dole-
drawers increase, and more taxes have to be
imposed, which exiles more industries, and
brings more ex-workers on the dole, and
so on ad infinitum.
The bad social money is driving out the
good, as it always has, and always must.
♦
Small Holdings for Unemployed.
We have got over the winter, and there is
a scrap of comfort in that. John Brdl’s
winter is to come, and with sterling
menaced, revenue (on current estimates)
£120,000,000 short of expenditure and nearly
three millions on the dole, it will be a
blacker winter than any he has had or per-
haps is likely to have. All the same, with
another penny off the price of wool, and
with the cruelly-deceived wheat-farmers
talking of keeping their grain on the farm
unless they get another shilling a bushel
through political action, there is no possi-
bility of an early recovery as far as we are
concerned, nor is it within our capacity to
support 300,000 unemployed. Before next
winter we must put a large proportion of
those now on the dole in the way of fend-
ing for themselves, and there is not a day
to be lost.
Many an honest Australian is saying, “If
I only had a bit of land, and a few fowls,
and some packets of seeds, and tools enough
to put together a humpy for the missus and
kids, and tucker for a month or so, and the
chance of an occasional day’s work in the
neighborhood, I would see this thing through
without lining up for the dole.” And so
he would in a multitude of cases, being 'an
adaptable and resourceful fellow. But, as
things are, it is not much use asking the
Government to provide him with the farm
and the outfit. Not eveiy Government has
the land suitable for such settlement, nor
the means of repurchasing any. Still, that
doesn’t exhaust the possibilities.
There are in every State farmers and
graziers who have more land than they
know what to do with, having been en-
couraged in the loan-drunk days to become
land-gamblers. They all, or nearly all, owe
taxes which they cannot pay. Many farmers
so situated would, if approached in the
right spirit and guaranteed fair compensa-
tion. be willing to surrender or lease portion
of their land suitable for small holdings,
and to take a friendly interest in unem-
ployed families placed on them, who might
be assisted with the equivalent of the dole
for six or eight weeks. Thousands of
soldier-settlers, unfortunate as their own lot
is, would, be glad to help old Digger mates
in this way. Such a plan would cost little,
and it might achieve a great deal.
Bank Amalgamations.
In pre-war days there were 20 Australian
banks. To-day there are nine, exclusive of
the one owned by the Commonwealth. The
others have been absorbed, amalgamated,
merged. In this process there has been one
object throughout—to strengthen the Aus-
tralian banking system. It would be going
too far to say that that system is a chain,
depending on its weakest link; yet it is
a fact that a weak bank might imperil the
lot. It ought to be much truer than it is
that a small bank is not necessarily a weak
one; because actually a small bank may
have a larger proportion of its assets liquid
than one 10 times its size. But where a
mere handful of people at one centre may
destroy the small bank, it will take many
handfuls at many centres to destroy a
large one; and a simultaneous panic over
a wide area is a very rare occurrence.
And then there is the question of expense.
Australia was and still is over-banked in
the sense that too many are represented in
too many country towns or in neighboring
towns. This has meant, and still means,
waste ; and there cannot be waste without
someone suffering—either shareholders or
customers. The cutting out of superfluous
branches will further tend towards that
reduction of interest which is held to be
so important. What is probably more im-
portant is the reduction of capital values,
and the weeding out of competitors in the
banking field may do something in that direc-
tion too. No doubt there was a time when
the country customer was fairly entitled to
a choice of homes for his frequent overdraft
and his rare deposit. There is less excuse
for it to-day, when they have all been
greatly strengthened, and when, through
the development of the Reserve Bank
functions of the Commonwealth Bank, there
is a mighty buttress behind even the weak-
est of them.
One other thing can be said definitely:
the banks have not used the amalgamations
to squeeze out bigger dividends for them-
selves. Between 1913 and 1928 the Aus-
tralian wage-index figures moved from 1076
to 1963; that is to say, the man whose
wages were £lO in 1913 got £lB 4s. in 1928,
and still was very little better off. Not-
withstanding this, several banks did not
increase their rate of dividend during that
period, though the purchasing power of
dividends fell just as much as that of
wages; and where there was a conspicuous
rise, as in the case of the Commercial of
Australia—to 15 p.c.—it was due to the
fact that almost the whole of the ordinary
capital was got in at 100 p.c. premium; that
is to say, £1 was put to capital and £1 to
reserves, and the real- dividend (payable
onlv on capital) was 7i p.c., equal to 4 p.c.
in 1913.
—♦
The “Voluntary” Conversion.
The loan conversion was a success and
would have been a greater success if we had
been honest and straightforward about it
all. But the politicians’ notions of what
are honest and straightforward being what
they are, the pretence had to be kept up
that conversion was voluntary. Within 24
hours of the closing date the Loan Council,
which had been waiting around the corner
with a club, had pounced out upon the dis-
senters. “You knew,” said the Prime Minis-
ter in effect—“you knew that all the talk
about conversion being voluntary was eye-
wash. You knew quite well that you were
not going to be allowed to escape if you
didn’t convert. Now you must take what’s
coming to you.” In the end they decided
to give the non-converters a few days’ grace.
At the end of that period we shall no cloubt
be able to say that instead of 95 p.c. of the
550 millions having been converted volun-
tarily, almost the whole 100 p.c. has been.
But shall we have any greater respect for
our governing institutions?
• ♦
Hard Times and Dishonesty.
These are days when the bankruptcy courts
have a definite national duty: they will only
serve their purpose by sternly reproving
extravagance and cordially encouraging the
sincere effort of the citizen to live within
his means. During the past few years we
have fallen into habits _ which, not much
good then, may be criminal now. Here is
a man deeply in debt to his petty trades-
men, yet smoking shilling cigars and living
generally the shilling-cigar life. The chances
are that he never will pay his butcher and
his milkman: it is partly because scores
like him have defaulted that honest people
are being charged excessive prices. When
that sort of man reaches the court he should
be described plainly as the rogue and cheat
and mean thief that he is.
Admittedly it is not always made easy
for men to do the honest thing. Families
are charming institutions; but the man who
has accustomed himself only to domestic
applause, and is not now game to face black
looks and protests, is not unlikely to be
pushed inside gaol before he >has finished
with his folly. Yet there is neither
woman nor grown child in Australia
who does not know that depression
sits heavily upon it, turning profits
into losses and nice credit balances
into frowning debts; and those who are
content to cry “Give, give!” without in-
quiring whether all is well in their own
circle should surely share in the punish-
ment. In most cases no doubt they will.
And there are other sinners, and some-
times they are schools, which, instead of
joining in what ought to be a nation-wide
movement to practise and inculcate econ-
omy and thrift, are struggling to show that
their clienteles are above such things as
financial stress. The result of such an atti-
tude is inevitable: it not only encourages a
socially dangerous snobbery, but instigates
dishonesty and, unfortunately, even crime.
♦
The Brisbane Deposit Banks.
The run on the three little local deposit
banks in Brisbane, which obliged one of
them to suspend payment at the end of last
week, was quite unjustified on their figures
and records. Without exception they are
well-managed, thrifty institutions, which
have done good service to Queensland home-
builders; their assets are greatly in excess
of liabilities, and, of even more importance
to depositors, their shareholders’ funds are
far in excess of any conceivable deprecia-
tion.
Almost any bank could be compelled to
suspend payment in these days if thrown
upon its own resources. There has been
an urgent demand for advances; in the
aggregate Australian banks at this moment
have lent more than they have borrowed.
In ordinary circumstances they would not
feel at all justified in making so much
credit available; but pressure has come upon
them from two sides—in addition to the
extraordinary calls of private customers, the
Governments have piled up and still pile up
deficits which the banks have been forced
to finance. And while there has been this
most exceptional call for advances, the
banks have been handicapped (and, of
course, still are handicapped) by mora-
torium and other laws in recovering their
money. , All this does not affect their
solvency in the smallest degree. But it does
affect their capacity to meet an extraordi-
nary demand upon them for quick repay-
ment of deposits. The position recalls that
of Hall Caine, the novelist, who died a few
days back, worth, it is disclosed, upwards of
a quarter of a million—he found himself not
long ago without the coppers to pay a ’bus
fare. It would have been no more absurd
to make Hall Caine a bankrupt on the
strength of that failure than it is for deposi-
tors to rush perfectly solvent banks and
compel them to suspend payment because
they don’t happen to have the coppers
about them to pay for their ’bus ride.
It is satisfactory to know that the greater
trading banks realise the position and will
stand behind these little Brisbane institu-
tions; and it may be taken for granted that
the trading banks, knowing the exceptional
circumstances of the time, will stand by one
another, with the Commonwealth Bank
standing behind the lot. And behind the
Commonwealth Bank again is very literally
the credit of the community, upon which it
can make drafts through its power to issue
legal-tender notes.
*
A State Dosings Bank.
“Titus Salt”: I know of four reasons why
the N.S.W. State Savings Bank would not
have been safe, even if there hadn’t been a
wild-eyed, bull-headed Premier dancing a
jig on the doorstep and preaching repudia-
tion :
1. —There has been an intense struggle after big
deposits. To get them interest rates have been
pushed up dangerously high, and have been accom-
panied by facilities for sudden and easy withdrawal
of big or small amounts.
2. In the straggle to earn the interest, a very
large proportion of the deposit money had to be
locked up in investments, and a dangerously small
proportion kept lying idle and available to meet
the sudden and easy withdrawals.
3. —The situation became so unstable through this
feverish competition that it was quite common in
an ordinary time for practically the whole mass of
the deposits to be withdrawn inside a single year.
There was always the hope that the money and a
little more would be lodged again within the year,
but there was always the risk that the depositors
might be struck by calamity through loans failing to
float or something, and have insufficient spare money
to lodge.
4. —A favorite and supposedly safe way of invest-
ing the bulky and fluctuating funds has been in
Government securities. But it would be necessary
to put these on the market in hard times like
the present, and in hard times they couldn’t be
realised except at a serious loss. A very moderate-
loss would make a State Savings Bank insolvent, by
swallowing up the small reserve accumulated by
the margin between interest paid and interest re-
ceived.
The position may be summed up in this
way. There are too many State Savings
Banks. They have attracted too much in
the way of deposits payable on demand, by
offering competitive rates of interest. And
they have too little to meet a demand with,
having locked up too much in the struggle
to earn the competitive interest. A popu-
lation of million folk doesn’t want
5,107,531 savings bank accounts except as
something to brag about.
It might be a good idea if Lang were
to found a State Losings Bank so that his
distracted subjects could deposit their losses
in it, and then they would know where to
find them when wanted. Otherwise they
may even lose their losses, which are about
all many of them have left.
Federal and State Awards.
Ip industrial awards are not suspended, at
least the whole business ought to be handed
over to the Federal authority. At present
it is a mass of confusion. Evidence has just
been given before a select committee that
•in N. S. Wales rates run to as much as
46.7 per cent, in excess of those for the same
labor in Victoria. Not only is this driving
employment away, but it is causing disaffec-
tion within N. S. Wales industries them-
selves, since some of them are working
partly under Federal and partly under State
jurisdiction. How can operations be carried
on smoothly when the wages of men working
side by side offer such wide discrepancies?


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE; Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts o t
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Bi&mbnd Engagement Mings
£3O
; < ; hmm
£25 *
The diamujds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout. _ with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY: BRISBANE: MELBOURNE:
13 HUNTER STREET.II6 QUEEN STREET. 298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
Things took a change in England just in
time to save the Sydney wool sales. They
were expected to look like Lazarus, and actu-
ally prices for best sorts were only 5 p.c. to
7-1 p.c. below those of last sales. For any-
thing except fine wools, however, there is
no strength in the market —which means that
S. Australia, for one, is likely to get it in
the neck again. Meantime it can’t find any
comfort in wheat prospects. A N.S.W.
grower who had held off the market sold in
August at Is. sd. at his siding, and couldn’t
get a better bid than Is. for his next-season
crop. There will be a shocking crash unless
(1) every State Government goes at costs
with an axe (this means railway costs par-
ticularly), (2) steps are taken by sales tax
or otherwise to give the farmer a price on
which he can live.
Moore, of Queensland, is the first Austra-
lian Premier to have the pluck to tell his
public servants that they have been making
things too warm, and that if they want to
keep the vote they will have to be a lot
more inconspicuous. Of course they will
kick. When Perciana, the washer-lady, has
"A nice thing the world’s coming to when
a servant can’t tell the master how
much whisky he’s got to leave, on the
sideboard!”
ucen in the habit of telling the boss how
much whisky he must leave in the decanter
on the sideboard, she naturally takes it very
hard when she is informed that she can still
be the washer-lady, if she wants the job, but
that for the future the washer-lady isn’t
going to have control over the whisky-bottle.
A year ago Hogan budgeted for a surplus
of £143,000; and he has had to confess to a
shortage of £2,454,000, the largest for any
year in Victorian history. He hopes to wind
up 1931-32 with a deficit of £821,000 instead
of the £1,310.000 mentioned when the Pre-
miers had colored glasses on in June; but
taxpayers are to get it in the neck again—
-25 per cent, on the “ordinary” income tax,
10 per cent, on probate duties, and additional
stamp duty on receipts for sums exceeding
£25, while 20 per cent, of motor-registration
fees are to be transferred to general revenue.
As the Unemployment Relief Bill has put
50 per cent, on the income tax levied for
that purpose there is strong objection, inside
and outside Parliament, to the 25 per cent,
addition to the “ordinary” tax, and demands
for further retrenchment have become
clamant.
Adelaide’s handsome white elephant, the
new railway-station building, is to start
earning its keep. It has gathered in various
departmental offices for which the Govern-
ment was paying rent elsewhere, and now
it is to house the whole of Taxation’s big
staff. The taxgatherers got a footing in a
large so-called Education Building in
Flinders-street, put up in Premier Peake’s
time, and have latterly occupied most of it.
Baddeley’s Coal Bill aims at closing small
mines. From small mines the railways are
to ■ get Maitland large coal at 14s. 9d. per
ton, f.o.r. East Greta Junction; the large
collieries on the field are excluded from the
latest allocation of contract's. Actually, the
price to the railways is Bs. Bd. per ton
below the ruling rate before the long strike.
This triumph for the “holes in the ground”
has made one feature of the Baddeley bill
ridiculous.
Archbishop Wright, in the course of an
eloquent address to the Anglican Synod the
ot,her day, said that the great need of Aus-
tralia in this time of distress is spiritual
aspiration. The idea is good, but at the
same time bodily perspiration shouldn’t be
overlooked —that is to say, personal perspi ra-
tion at productive work, not watching other
people perspire at cricket and football
matches and race meetings.
There was terrible tribulation in Queens-
land Assembly when the bill reducing the
number of members from 72 to 62 was
brought in. The Opposition fought the
measure bitterly, and made no secret of its
belief that the axe will fall on Labor
electorates, as it fell on non-Labor electo-
rates in Theodore’s time. An amendment
to have the membership fixed at 50 was
defeated, as was one by Arnold Weinholt
favoring another 20 p.c. cut in salaries,
abolition of gold passes, and an interdict on
the practice of hoisting defeated politicians
into cushy Government jobs. Weinholt is
a most unparliamentary person.
Vic. municipal election results indicate
that Labor is out of favor. Premier Hogan’s
work is appreciated, but the attitude of
the Trades Hall and of members who dance
to its piping is not; and an Assembly elec-
tion held this year would result in the loss
of at least eight Labor seats. The Govern-
ment will try to avoid an election, and won’t
have anything to do with a coalition ; but
it will have the Devil’s own job to last till
the summer.
Sydney’s latest political libel action had
queer features. The defendant was a “Herald ’
correspondent who, criticising the attitude of
the Timber Workers’ Union on a tariff
matter, had written that its officials were "the
same that led their fellow-unionists in the
late strike, with its basher gangs, etc.”
These words, it was alleged, constituted a foul
libel on Culbert, M.L.C., the union secre-
tary, and had cost him a post in the Ministry,
so £5OOO damages were claimed. Graves,
secretary of the A.L.P.. a body unknown to
the Constitution, testified that “we” had
promised to make Culbert Minister of Labor;
then the “Herald” letter appeared and “we”
weakened. A murmur from the Bench that
“it used to be the prerogative of the King
to appoint his Ministers” left, Mr. Graves
unmoved. Verdict for the defendant, with
costs.
Stuart-Robertson, the Labor M.L.A., lately
asked the N.S.W. Attorney : General whether
he was aware that the Primary Producers’
Bank had received payments up to two o'clock
on the day of its suspension, and if so would
he have somebody keelhauled. And young
Mr. Lamaro replied breathlessly that he
would see if the law made keelhauling
possible. If the bank realised at 1.59 p.m.
that the game was up it was better to stop
receiving money at 2 p.m. than to spend
some of its scanty deposit money on 16-
column advertisements in the “S. M. Herald”
and the “Labor Daily” urging the public to
rush along and deposit more money. If the
last money offered to a bank before a stop-
page is only half-way across the counter at
the moment of the stoppage a fine point-
might arise, but Stuart-Robertson didn’t say
that such a point has arisen.
It was given out on Friday that when
the new State Savings Bank opened its doors
on Monday, despite the fact that the State
lottery is in possession of its head office,
Lang "would be there to deposit his private
“I presume these are Government Savings
Bank depositors expressing their confi-
dence in the institution that is about to
redpen. Splendid!”
“No: they’re punters lining up to buy
tickets in the Government lottery.”
account, his business account and his trust
account, as a sign of confidence. This im-
plied that he hadn’t got them locked up in
the old Savings Bank. It wasn’t suggested
that the Premier would put any of his money
on fixed deposit; and the curse of the hotly-
competing savings banks of Australia has
been the money that was put in and started
at once to cost interest, yet was liable to
be drawn out before it had time to earn
interest. The new bank has undertaken to
pay a full month’s interest to depositors
who arrived out of breath on opening day,
although they will only have their money
in the institution for 23 days.
Union-boss insolence reached its peak in
Brisbane when officials of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation insisted on returnecl-
soldier members producing documentary evi-
dence of their right to apply for a renewal
of the licenses necessary under Federal Gov-
ernment regulations. They even demanded
to see their serfs’ military-discharge certi-
ficates. The only person entitled to make
such inquiries is the licensing officer. No
doubt the union bosses were inspired by the
presence in Brisbane of Attorney-General
Brennan, whose regulations have over-
r'dden the judgment of the Arbitration
Court refusing absolute preference to mem-
bers of the turbulent Federation.
“The Government wouldn’t think of com-
pelling you to convert your bonds. The
bondholder is a free agent, as I always
said. But if you don’t convert our kind
friend here will tear your liver out.”
There would have been another unholy
row in Macquarie-street, Sydney, had Lang
been in his place the day the appointments
to his Transport Board were announced.
But he had gone to Melbourne for the Loan
Council palavers, and the Opposition decided
that it would be a .waste of ammunition to
shoot at his obsequious Baddeleys, Dunns
and Goslings, so hostilities were postponed
until his return. C. J. Goode, named Chief
Transport Commissioner, is the railwayman
who was dismissed from the service a few
months ago on charges which ought at least
to have been referred to a select committee
if, as alleged, he had no opportunity of stat-
ing his case. He is to get £1750 p.a., and
may issue orders to the men who dismissed
him. There is also, of course, a Trades Hall
representative, at £lOOO p.a. —F. E. Miller,
secretary of the Transport Workers’ Union
and Sydney alderman. “S. M. Herald” calls
him “a moderate,” but he doesn’t talk like
one. Jimmy Fraser, formerly Chief Rail-
way Commissioner, and Hodgson, who was
his chief traffic manager, are to assist Lang’s
friend and the union secretary; fees, £4 45,,
a sitting, with a limit of £750: The appoint-
ments are for 12 months, and lots of things
are going to happen during the 12 months.
In a kindly but not helpful letter to
Ramsay MacDonald, the Australian-born
Marion Phillips, M.P., said that “every
Socialist party throughout the world some
day comes to a final difficulty with bankers,
and must accept or challenge the domination
of orthodox capitalist finance.” Then she
remarked that MacDonald was giving way to
the bankers, and she must leave him. It was a
grand chance to tell Rammy, and, incidentally,
Scullin and Lang, exactly what they ought
to do. In Australia the people’s "Govern-
ments own the Commonwealth Bank, the
Commonwealth Savings Bank, the whole
terrace of State Savings Banks, a Sural
Bank of N.S.W., an Agricultural Bank of
W.A. and a State Bank of South Australia,
and the Commonwealth owns the note issue,
and has relieved the joint-stock banks of all
their gold; and yet things are at sixes and
sevens. Orthodox institutions like cohesion
and gravitation and the multiplication table
are proof against all the banging of all the
Socialists going.
Ireland, it is reported, may shortly strike
another blow for freedom and the republic ;
but it is questionable if the people care
enough about a republic to fight for it. The
spontaneous rising of a nation, or an appre-
ciable section of it, is rare when the nation
has its own Parliament, chosen by universal
suffrage, arid its own army, and all that sort
of Au.frtforjn'r blow for fv'mdofn natr
be struck when the fervent class is suffi-
ciently vigorous to convince an appreciable
number of non-fervent people that it is safer
and cheaper to strike for freedom, even if
they don’t care much about it, than to have
their homes set on lire at night and be
exposed to similar unpleasantnesses. Such
a war may degenerate into brigandage, with
noble motives, and by reason of the rush of
bad characters to the Flag it may become
brigandage, with a great, lack of noble motives.
Next it may sink to the level of gang out-
rage, or even to solitary crime, which is
about the dead finish.
Another result of Langism is a brisk
transfer of N.S.W. sheep to Vic. and south
Queensland meatworks. Meat exporters are
doing a lively trade in frozen mutton, and
most of the advantages are being derived by
the Ma State’s southern and northern neigh-
bors, thanks to Ma’s shorter working week
and higher wage rates, its child endowment
and unemployment taxes, its “good ole
Piddo” and Slang, and the general uncer-
tainty as to what Slang will do next.
Recently Canon Garland, founder of the
New Settlers’ League in Queensland, pro-
pounded a scheme for settling intermittent
worker’s and their families on small blocks
in outer suburbs of Brisbane. Minister
Sizer replies that, though his Government is
not keen on the idea, it is willing to supply
land, rations and seed for six months, an
extension of the period to be the subject of
review. The canon and his friends will have
to be responsible for the choosing of the
.settlers, for housing and whatever else may
be necessary. Their intentions are good, bur
they ought to be looking farther afield. If
there is one thing clear these days it is
that the six State capitals cannot carry the
immense populations which are trying to get
a living in them, and no plan for depositing
portion of the surplus on second- or third-
class land a few miles out can do much good.
In spite of strenuous efforts to cut costs.
Queensland’s revenue continues to drop
faster than expenditure. August returns
show a deficit of £160,000. Reduced rail-
way income was chiefly responsible,
having declined from £1,170,000 to
£1.085.000; expenditure on railways, how-
ever. has been heavily pruned, the outlay
for July and August having been reduced to
£711,000, as compared with £932,800 for the
same period of 1930.
For many years the inhabitants of Cairns
have been considering ways and means of
harnessing the huge power going to waste
in Barron Falls. The State Government
has come along with a loan of £lOO,OOO as
its contribution, and a hydro-electricity
board is to take the job in hand. It will
mean the electrification of a very large ami
important N.Q. area, and will supply power
for all sorts of enterprises, from sugar-
growing to mining.
“Information h[?]s been received from London thar
the story of the Everingham millions was a concoc-
tion. Everingham was a policeman in the Windsor
district, where Mr. Lang has a farm. A great many
people who anticipated sharing in the Everingham
millions are bitterly disappointed.”
FARMER LANG (to shade of Everingham)
“Said you had millions up your sleeve,
and mugs believed you. Well, of all
the impostors!”
“Clifford Snook”: I have read pages of
praise in the papers about the splendid and
almost unparalleled way the public has re-
sponded to the conversion-loan _ appeal, i
suppose the press takes this line because
the nation (consisting of subscribers and
possible subscribers’) likes to have nice things
said about it. Bondholders were informed
that if they went through the graceful for-
mality of converting their holdings into
securities carrying less interest the uimm-
ished interest would be safe, and that it
they stood on the letter of the contract and
refused to convert something worse but quite
indefinite might happen to them, So a great
number expressed their willingness to con-
vert, and reaped the applause that came their
v<—v J was one of them.


SOCIETU
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
“Solomon Dry” : There is a fine flavor of
i>ld Sydney rum about that little bit of the
old town where a new home is being got
ready for The Bulletin. Back in the first
days of last century the Tank Stream flowed
down, and the tides flowed up past Bridge-
street (that was where Australia’s first
bridge was built) ; and at the back of The
Bulletin block there was a well-known
stone wall skirting the stream. Boats
couldn’t pass Bridge-street; but there were
IF SEE HAD TO CHOOSE.
SOULEUL SUSAN: “If we were birds in the next world, wouldn’t you like to be an
albatross?”
PRACTICAL PRUNELLA: “Oh, anything you like—anything but a homing pigeon.”
yards where boatbuilding was done just
below it. Bridge-street above the stream was
almost a procession of pubs. So it was no
wonder that when Captain Sylvester Browne
came ashore in Sydney, after landing his
very profitable cargo of 200 convicts in Tas-
mania, he made an early acquaintance with
the Tank Stream and the piece of ground
with the stone wall, and presently he got
some sort, of title to it. But Captain Syl-
vester Browne (he’d been in the East India
Co.’s service) never went into possession:
instead, he'built his home further west: he
called it Enmore, and so the place got a
name. Rolf Boldrewood just missed being
born there : he was the baby of the boat when
dad brought his family this way. A year
or two later John Tawell was in possession
of the stone-wall block. The tang of rum
that hangs about this first of our Quakers
came from the 800 gallons which in his tee-
total fervor he caused to be spilled into the
harbor after it had got into his possession
in payment of a debt. But, alas! John was
not always the saint: they hanged him in
England afterwards for murdering his lady.
* * x *
“C. Coral”: At least one buccaneering
celebrity has had his name perpetuated in
Torres Strait. An infant was registered the
other day as “Bully Hayes.” The proud
father (he confesses his obligation to an
official who offered to give him “proper
good name”) has it written down as “Bully
Ages,” that being the nearest he can get to
it in pronunciation. The native has always
been considered fair game for the tacking-
on of humorous (or otherwise) front names;
which accounts for one islander who answers
to “Dnmquick,” and another who signs her-
self “Beauty,” although her looks hardly
bear out the signature. Just now. however,
the vogue is that of handing out the names
of notables of one kind or another; there
are already a few “Captain Cooks” scattered
round the islands, and several more infants
are called after blameless Government offi-
cials who have visited these parts. So
“Bully Ages” won’t be in bad company.
* * * *
“Old Lag”: James Casey, the Australian
confidence man who has just been given a
sixer in Paris, was the hero a few years ago
of one of the most remarkable escapes from
custody on record. He had been remanded to
Darlinghurst police station, and was taken
there in the usual official conveyance. Exceed-
ingly well-dressed and ’groomed, he was the
first to step out of Maria at the station and
ranging alongside the constable receiving the
guests he gravely superintended the disem-
barkation of the other prisoners. The bobbv
took him for a plain-clothes prison official,
and in reply to Casey’s questions certified
that the cargo had been delivered correctly.
With a cheery good day Casey strolled out
of the police yard, and was not seen again in
this country; it was rumored he snt away
from Bowen in North Queensland with a
shipment of remounts for India.
* * * *
“Clerk”: Announced that “the first Aus-
tralian locomotive, which arrived in New
South Wales in 1855 from England,” will
steam over the Harbor Bridge at the official
opening ceremony. Something’s wrong some-
where. Australia’s first steam locomotive was
built and run in Victoria the year before the
arrival of the Ma State’s importation. It was
turned out in 10 months by Robertson,
Martin, Smith and Co., of Little Collins-street,
the cost being £2500 ; and it hauled four “dog-
box” loads of colonial dignitaries and titled
deadheads from Flinaers : street to Sandridge
(now Port Melbourne) on September 12,
1854. No one seems to know what happened
to it in the end. The first N.S.W. loco-
motive, built by Stephensons at Newcastle
(Eng.), started to earn its daily coal on
May 15, 1555, when it dragged the first bal-
last train on the Sydney-Parramatta line,
which was opened for traffic four months later.
* * * *
“Erua”: The terrible experiences of 14
young climbers on Ruapehu, the highest
mountain in the North Island of Maori-
land, show what a dangerous side there is
to mountaineering. Time was when it was
cast as a reproach at Maorilanders that they
were content to look at mountains from the
plains, but during the past decade the climb-
ing craze has struck the Dominion hard.
Freda Dufaur, an Australian girl, was the
first woman to climb Aorangi (Mt. Cook) ;
she afterwards conquered the even more
difficult Mt. Sefton, and completed a traverse
of both mountains. Then young Maoriland
began ski-ing on the snow slopes that abound
in the south, and in organis 'd parties tackl 'd
the easier peaks. Ruapehu is not in the
dangerous class, but. like all M.L. mountains,
is subject to sudden and violent blizzards.
These blizzards are so intense that in one",
which caused the deaths of five persons on the
Tasman glacier last year, it w n s staff'd that
death must have occurred in 15 minutes.
“Farleigh”: Touching the punishment of
“spanking” as a corrective for adults (B.
2/9/’81), some 30 years ago an English
society paper published a remarkable story
of how a number of ladies, some of them
titled, had judicially inflicted it on one of
their own sex. The scene was a country
house party, and the delinquent, a young
married woman, had been found guilty—on
evidence that satisfied the other players,
though no fuss was made at the time—of
cheating at cards. That same night, long
before the men of the party thought of retir-
IT CAME TOO LATE.
“You ARE a beast. I believe you only married me for my money!”
“Yes! And to think af I had only waited a little longer I could have got the dole.”
ing to rest, a jury of determined matrons
invaded the offender’s bedroom. “We’re
not going to make public what you did.” said
the spokeswoman, “because it would only
punish your husband, and we’re sure he
knows nothing about it, but we’re going to
give you a good whipping. Will you take it
quietly?” The culprit, after a little con-
sideration and some tears, consented to take
it like a lamb—and did, as well as solemnly
promising reformation. I fancy it was a
countess who wielded the hairbrush or the
slipper. After the requirements of justice
had been satisfied, the slate was held to
have been wiped clean.
$ * 4> *
“Taltingan”: Most people have had a for-
tune pushed at them and haven’t taken any
notice, not being
able to tell a for-
tune when they
saw one. But I
don’t suppose
there was ever a
worse case in
Australia than
that of the Bar-
rier Ranges Min-
ing Association,
because the asso-
'eiation was sup-
posed to be look-
ing for a fortune
at the time.
Willie Wilson
(afterwards race-
horse owner and
the squire of St.
Albans) had an
idea that there might be something in
the big ironstone blow that Charley
Rasp had pegged out on Mt. Gipps ; and,
as his own co. wasn’t making exactly
a fortune out of its Day Dream pro-
perty, he wanted to know whether the
syndicate would sell its northern
blocks. The syndicate met at the
mine on May 20. ISBS, to consider the
matter, and decided to sell a three-
fourths interest in blocks 14, 15 and
16 for £86,000, payable over 12 months.
On June 3 the syndicate turned up
again at the mine and it was found
that the offer had been turned down.
Within 18 months block 14 alone had
been sold for £432,000. and a bit later the
same year London greedilv took the British
(blocks 15 and 16) at £1,200,000.
* * *
“Avon” : The appetite of the frugal-minded
Maorilanders for free tickets is well known
to every showman who has toured their coun-
try. Advantage was taken of this trait in a
rather unusual manner in Wellington recently.
A suburban couple received by post a couple
of d.-c. tickets for the swankiest picture
palace in the town. The donor was not dis-
closed. but the pair took the gifts the gods
had sent and attended the show. On return-
ing they found their house had been sys-
tematically and thoroughly burgled. A card
was pinned to the drawing-room table, neatly
inscribed: “Hope you enjoyed the pictures!”
He $ ❖ sje
“Tamata”: The Sydney press broke out
into headlines the other day over a ship’s
captain who successfully set a compound
fracture —that is, a break which is compli-
cated by the broken bone protruding through
the flesh. Sea history is full ot much more
complicated operations. There is the famous
one of the young naval lieutenant command-
ing a gunboat on the West Coast of Africa,
who decided that a seaman’s leg must come
off if his life was to be saved. The ship had
a volume on anatomy, and, laying this beside
the unchloroformed patient, the neophyte got
to work with a couple of seamen’s knives
and the carpenter’s tenon-saw and made a
capital job of it. One of my memories of that
great missionary and fine gentleman the late
Copeland King concerns an operation suc-
cessfully performed under similar difficulties,
A native laborer was sent down by his miner
employer from the Upper Gira in Papua
with a hand blown off by dynamite. King
borrowed the R.M.’s emergency first-aid kit
and a couple of trade knives from the Govern-
ment store, tie enlisted my services as
assistant and I have wondered since what
was the most intriguing part of the
performance—King’s coolness and skill,
though he had no surgical training, or the
calm indifference of the Papuan patient, who,
without an anaesthetic, looked interestedly on
while his arm was being pruned and dressed.
* * # *
“Wealsman”: An alleged mantrap on exhi-
bition at Hobart’s big show of historical
antiques is built on the lines of an ordinary
rabbit-trap, but with a double spring—one
at each end of the contrivance. The trap is
about six feet over all, the jaws occupying
about 18 inches in the centre. The teeth are
about an inch and a half in length, and
needle-sharp. Is there any record of such
traps having been in actual use? This parti-
cular sample was found in an old mud wall
at Jericho (T.), but whether it was intended
as a convict trap, or a bushranger trap, or a
hymna trap nobody seems to know. It is
big enough to catch' an elephant, and weighs
about 601 b. The springs are still in good
working order, but it seems to me that a man
left with one foot and both hands free could
(if he retained consciousness) depress the
springs and release the trapped limb.
* * * *
“Scrivener” : The late Hugh Mahon before
he entered politics was a thoroughly capable
journalist with a keen eye for anything that
looked like good copy. Ho ran the Kalgoorlie
“Sun” in its early days and soon made a
power of it; the discovery and exposure of
some systematic frauds in the Westralian
railway department perpetrated by a com-
mercial concern of some standing gave the
paper its first big lift. After that there were
numerous articles that culminated in libel
actions, but Mahon seldom erred about his
facts and the paper always emerged triumph-
ant. Years later a curious scoop came
his way by pure accident. It was in 1906,
when Seddon was visiting Australia and,
being about to leave, was entertained by
Labor Parliamentarians. There were no
reporters present, and the M.11.R. for Cool-
gardie was asked or volunteered to take a
full note of Seddon’s speech. Probably neither
he nor anyone else set any particular store
by it or dreamed that it was the last speech
Seddon would ever make. But it was; a few
days later the Dominion Prime Minister died
at sea, on his homeward voyage, and those
slips of. paper became valuable. The “Age,”
was said to have paid £5O for them.
“Viator”: Re-reading “The Shanty,” in
Dyson's “Rhymes from the Mines,” where
the ability of Mrs. O’Sullivan to extract
“illigant” rum from cabbages, pickles, gum
leaves and what not is given full credit, I
was reminded of an experience of my own.
It was on a sweltering morning in a dusty
Westralian goldfields settlement that I left
a corrugated-iron newspaper office that
seemed like a creditable imitation of Tophet
and made for the nearest pub. It was still
early and the bar was empty; Bung was
fixing up the shelves at one end and his wife
at the other, and neither noticed me as I
disposed myself unobtrusively in a ♦leek-
chair and wondered what particular stimu-
lant would taste best. Suddenly the missus
upspoke. “Mac,” she said, “we’re right out
of dry gin.” “Give me a couple of bottles.”
returned her lord, without even look-
ing round, “and I’ll soon fix up some.” I
was glad, for their sake as well as mine, that
I was able to steal away as unobservedly
as I had arrived, for Mac was a valued
advertiser of ours and might have resented
my stumbling on trade secrets. But I could
never bring myseit. to touch his spirits again.
All the bush shanties aren’t—or weren’t,
anyhow, in those days—in the bush.
THE MUSICAL DRESS-IMPROVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Buyers at the Olympia Fashion Exhibition
(London) were amazed to learn that bustles are
returning. One manufacturer has designed a bustle
like a concertina; it automatically collapses when
the wearer sits and bulges when she rises."
The dodo and the out-sized auk have gone,
The rnoa, too, and many another bird;
That “Nature brings not back the mastodon
Is possibly an adage that you’ve heard.
But miracles that Nature shies at, man
Pulls off occasionally with a tussle.
I wonder if these dress-designers can
Resuscitate the bustle.
What theme and peg for ridicule and scorn
The dress-improver’s furnished since it
went!
Had you been young (like me) when it was
worn
You scarce had seen therein disfigurement
The mode of other days gets satire’s barb,
Artistic souls assail and bards deride it
But what’s it signify, a woman s garb,
Compared with what’s inside it?
Across the years what hosts of figures rise,
Sharers of youth’s entrancing cakes and ale !
None less attractive in a lover’s eyes
Because of something very like a tail.
Nay, never maid or matron, svelte or plump,
Ethereal or ample, Devil doubt it!
But would have felt herself the veriest frump
And looked half-dressed without it.
To hint that such appendage held a trace
Of ugliness would then have raised a
storm;
Twas just a thing of piquancy and grace
That lent distinction to the fairest form ;
An aid to beauty, all were firm resolved,
With nothing to incite a sneer or giggle—
Cxcept, perhaps, that sitting down involved
A modicum of wriggle.
Well, should the bustle get another spin,
Phyllis, the prospect needn’t leave you hurt.
I'm game to bet you’ll look as well therein
As in the straightest, skimpiest knee-
length skirt.
And if the concertina notion go,
As I foresee —and Heav’n send it fall so!—
Then you shall seat yourself to music slow,
And rise to music also.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nikko” : Returning to the city in the ser-
vice-car we picked up an ancient from the far
Outback, who was given a place beside an
impressive-looking dame with horn-rims and
a Pekinese. The old ’un was inclined to be
chatty, but the lady’s manner was frigid
and her part in the conversation monosyl-
labic. He alighted before we reached town,
and, obviously ruffled in spirit, addressed ms
companion. “Well, goo’-bye, Missus,” he
said. “I on’y hope the next bloke as gets
in the car will be more conjoogal to yer. ’
“Audlem”: Baronets occasionally crop up
in unexpectedly humble settings in Australia,
and it seems they may have even worse luck
in England. The cables made quite a touch-
ing little story the other day of a Shropshire
navvy who lost his job and had to w r alk two
miles' through pouring rain to draw the dole;
what differentiated his case from thousands
of others and set the fierce, light of news-
paper publicity beating on it was that his
father’s death made him a baronet, the
eleventh of his line, on the very same day.
His ill luck deserves the fullest sympathy,
especially as he did his bit in the war, but
there seems something of bathetic irrele-
vance in the further information that the
new baronet’s wife, who is doing her own
housework in a tiny cottage, is “an attrac-
tive blonde.” Why on earth introduce the
lady’s complexion into the chapter of family
misfortune ?
“Avon”: The Maoriland official has very
little respect for old records, and as the
Alexander Turnbull library is a fairly recent
institution there was some excuse for the
attitude in bygone years. Twenty years
ago a fellow-reporter and I, condemned
to report Arbitration Court proceedings
in the Lands Office at Christchurch —
a quaint old composite wooden and stone
FATHER’S PLACE.
“What was all the row about this morning?”
“Dad’s so quick-tempered and unreasonable. He stormed because he was given last
night’s milk in his tea instead of this morning’s. And he knows very well poor
Fido won’t drink stale milk."
building that onco upon a time housed
the Provincial Parliament—enlivened the
tedium of our labors by exploring the
many unoccupied apartments in the place,
We found a fair-sized attic, dimly lit by a
high dormer window, the floor of which was
covered by a sea of old documents, mostly
printed matter, that had been heaved in
indiscriminately. One of the first things we
fished out was a proclamation by Governor
Hobson, dated February, 1840, dealing with
some native matter: It must have been
either the first, or very nearly the first, legal
ordinance of the colony. Scattered through
the pile were old newspapers, including very
early issues of the “Southern Cross” and
other long-defunct journals. What happened
to that invaluable deposit 1 don’t know,
Johannes Anderson, who later became
librarian of the Turnbull Library, drove a
quill for the Government in that same build-
ing in those days, and he may have been
aware of its existence and have carried out
salvage operations when the opportunity
came his way. But it is not impossible that
the cache lies there yet, with a few feet added
to its depth.
“2nd Divvy”: In 1919, when the British
Army was “getting back to real soldiering,” a
dispute began about the use of military titles.
It has continued, off and on, ever since. All
over Australia you find distinguished fighting
soldiers who held high A.I.F. rank being
“mistered,” and men who never saw active
service being spoken to, and written of, as
officers. I recently heard a subaltern dis-
pute John Monash’s right to be called
“General.” The youth claimed that he
would have a right to a military title for
life when he earned one, as he was a per-
manent soldier, whereas A.I.F. officers were
only temporaries. But a Melbourne man
recently got this official ruling from London:
The question of temporary commissions in It. M.
forces during the late war was settled once for all
by the King when he granted the same privileges
to the temporary forces as to the regular forces in
so far as retention of titles is concerned. Therefore,
if a man cares to use his professional title in civilian
life, he is quite entitled to do so.
The fact that this can’t be done in military
life has produced some queer anomalies. They
had a W.O. at Middle Head for some time
after the war who had been a Lieut.-
Colonel, with D.S.O. and bar, in the A.1.F.,
and “Tiny” Freyburg, V.C., who had had a
division in France, reverted to captain when
he joined the Guards.
* ❖ *
“Billy”: The reclamation of the Roman
Campagna by means of eucalyptus planta-
tions (B. 26/8/’3l) is no new tiling. Thirty
years ago I visited the monastery at Tres
Fontaine and saw a fine lot of eucalypts. The
monk, a Dutchman, who conducted me round
seemed interested when I told him that in
Australia we obtained oil from the leaves,
and suggested that these Italian plantations
might be turned to profitable account by
similar means. When we returned .to the
monastery, he invited me, with something like
a twinkle in his eye, to “Come and see our
showroom.” I did, and there were oil, cough
jubes and other eucalyptus preparations.
Later, I saw the same on sale in Roman
shops.
“M.L.C.”: The achievement of those
Roman monks had its origin in the research
work of Baron von Mueller. The Baron
judged that the blue-gum, owing to its
copious absorption of humidity and the
disinfecting and deodorising properties of
its dropping foliage, would prove an antidote
to malaria and other forms of fever. Accord-
ingly he gave a packet of seeds to Arch-
bishop Goohl of Melbourne, who visited Italy
in 1809. to hand to the Superior of the Trap-
pist monastery situated in the district. Tin's
plague spot has been notorious through the
ages and had defied efforts at reclamation
from the time of Julius Caesar onward. The
Baron died at Melbourne in 1896; it’s up
to some patriotic Roman to send a wreath of
laurel for his grave.
“Med” : According to a cable : —-
Ex-Chief Constable Wensley, Britain’s best-known
detective, bas been asked to assist in putting down
New York gang warfare.
It is significant, coming on top of the Wicker-
sham Commission’s revelations of the lengths
to which the N. York police go in applying the
third degree. I saw a famous London discipli-
narian in action during the war, and puzzle
to this day over the explanation of his suc-
cess. A friend had charge of a v.d. camp,
and the clink cases mutinied. The officers
were doctors, and the n.c.o.’s C 3 men, so
help was summoned from Wandsworth Gaol.
A quiet-voiced man with a wooden face and
a crown on his arm arrived with a corporal,
peered at the scene of uproar through the
barb-wire for a second or so, and then asked
for “some pieces of rope.” They were given
to the corporal. Then the R.S.M. produced
a revolver, loaded it absently, and walked
into the pandemonium, followed by the corp.
Turning to a ringleader lie said. “Pick up
that broom, and get busy.” Nothing happened,
He aimed the revolver at the man’s stomach,
and said in his low. dead voice, “Tie him
up.” No one moved while the corp. upset
the mutineer on the icy concrete, and trussed
him agonisingly with a leg over a shoulder,
and an arm behind his back. Two more were
treated similarly, after which the R.S.M.
sat down and watched them. I heard after-
wards that when he let them up, an hour or
so afterwards, they were ready to eat out
of his hand. He stayed on for three days,
and left the clink section of the camp a cave
of harmony. Why the British police should
get results with desperadoes where others
who are more ruthless, such as the French,
fail is a mystery, but they do. One theory
is that their stolidity impresses the moron
mind; it suggests business. They are equally
superior with street crowds—so per cent,
better than the Americans, 100 per cent,
better than the French.
ALL OVER.
MARGARET: “So YOU are Archie's girl friend now! Did he tell you he was lucky enough
to have me last year?”
SALLY: “I think he did say something about being lucky it was last year.”
“Old-timer”: When Tex McLeod, the gag-
ster, “lassoed an interrupter in the Melbourne
Tivoli stalls” he displayed the modern vaude-
villain’s usual ignorance of theatrical eti-
quette. The stage has crimes of its own,
and one of the worst is to show’ temper. To
so much as rebuke members of the audience
meant the sack for all but stars of the first
magnitude in pre-film days. Harry Rickards
brought the code to the Tivoli, and the
knowledge that a patron had been roped ip
one of the theatres he founded was enough to
make the old trouper whirl in his grave.
Outside Australia McLeod mostly officiates
at up-to-date night clubs, which are without
traditions, and that may account for his
lapse. The nineteenth century had hundreds
of laws like the one he violated, and they
should be codified before it is too late.
“P.X.”: When I’m floated into a public
co. in Sydney I shan’t call myself the A.B.C.
unless I want an early and a nasty, ehokey
death. First Sydney
A.BjC. I remember
was the Australian
Banking Co.; and
poor old Uncle Abi-
gail, Parkes’s Minis-
ter for Mines at one
time, went to gaol
over it, along with
the general manager,
Rod McNamara.
They had queer, old-
fashioned ideas in
those days. Next
came the A.B.C.
restaurants; there
was a time, before
Mrs. Sargent’s
meat-pieg had been
made into a co.,
when the A.B.C. in
Pitt-street was easily
the most popular
feed-box in Sydney.
Then a co. took
t hem over; and
within a year or two
was up to. its apron
in difficulties. Then
another A.8.C., the
Australian Building
Co., fluttered on the
horizon: but its
dividend record is. a
painful blank. Fin-
al 1 y the biggest
A.B.C. of them all,
the Australian Bank
of Commerce, was made out of the bones
of the A. J.S.; and later it had the little
City of Sydney Bank for breakfast one
morning. But, somehow or other, it never
acquired much of a punch; and when the
other day it was taken for breakfast by
its big neighbor, the Bank of N. S. Wales,
nobody who knew was much surprised.
There’s a hoodoo on the title, anyhow.
$ *
“Mark Over”: According to the “Sun” a
N. S. Wales optimist has imported a number
of pheasants from England:—
He has commenced breeding the birds on a large
scale, and intends to free them on his own property
near Jervis Bay. Later he will arrange shoots on
the area, and will charge sportsmen for the right to
shoot there.
It will represent the umpteenth attempt to
acclimatise British game birds in Australia.
Partridges were tried on the Coolangatta
estate, to the north of Jervis Bay, a genera-
tion ago. Pheasants have been put down in
many parts of the State; there was one
experiment with them as far west as Went-
worth’s station, Burrabogie, near Hay. Some-
one else imported the most localised of all birds
—grouse. As they don’t survive in England
south of the Yorkshire moors it wasn’t sur-
prising that they died off in Australia. So
did the pheasants and partridges. What
happens to them in Australia is as mysterious
as the destination of the salmon that go to
the sea. The bush just swallows them up.
and they are never seen again,
* * * *
“Carbine”: “On Sunday mornings' and
holidays,” said the “Herald” last week,
“scores of riders are’to be seen in Mel-
bourne.” And on week days, it might have
added, hundreds are to be seen riding to
hounds. It emphasises N.S.W.’s indifference
to horses anywhere but on a racecourse. All
kinds of well-known Melbournites ride in the
Domain —Harry Charnel, ex-P.M. Bruce.
Railway Commissioner Clapp, General John-
ston—and most prominent pastoralists hunt.
Pew but jockeys ride in Sydney, and no one
has hunted in the vicinity for years. Amateur
riding—hacking in parks, riding to hounds,
in ’chases and so on —is the only British
sport that the Ma State has consistently
spurned. Yet the Irish are passionately fond
of horses and horsemanship, and N. S. Wales
is as Irish as Victoria is Scotch. What’s the
explanation ?
“Matelot”: I claim for the R.A.N. the
distinction of being the whitest of the Cau-
casian navies. Uncle Sam’s is the most
colored, with every shade of black and yellow
amongst its ratings; and the French navy
comes a close second. It employs hundreds
of Islanders, N. Africans and Malays. The
Royal Navy is remarkably mixed in hue,
considering John Bull’s strong color sense.
Natives act as officers’ stewards on the
China and East Indies stations, and Pathans
serve in the stokehole in parts of the tropics.
The best yarn “Bartimeus” ever wrote was
about a Maltese R.N. bandsman. I have
never seen an Aussie rating with a touch of
color, and I don’t believe the service has
had a pure-bred nigger in its history.
“Lancashire Lad”: A cable announced the
other day that many couples living on the
dole in the County Palatine had been married
at Oldham Wakes, and had spent their honey-
moon at Blackpool. The “wakes” are the
North of England equivalent of the “fairs”
in the South, and appear to be in no danger
of dying out. They are the happy hunting
ground of sideshowmen. I remember attend-
ing one at Bolton where .the attractions
included the bodiless head of a lady assorted
to be the only relic left from the flames
which consumed Rider Haggard’s “She,”
that novel having just taken Britain by
storm. A lad who had been “shoppin’ ” well
lurched up alongside me and considered the
exhibit. Said he: “Si’tha 'She,’ Ah sow tha
at Preston Waakes coom Eaaster Moonda as
t’ Queen o’ Sheba.” The Egyptian princess’s
remains rose to the occasion. As interpreted
through her lips the reproof was this : “Tha’st
a daam leear. Happen, laad, Ah get me ten
commandments on tha dial tha missus
weant know tha by time tha’s taaken what’s
left o’ thy waages whoam.”
“Sartor”: The London “Tailor and
Cutter,” which gravely rated Ramsay Mac-
Donald the other day for waiting on the
King in a morning coat and bowler hat, is
in itself a valuable historical record. I re-
cently saw an illustration from its pages
depicting men’s fashions in 186 S. The two
figures in the picture are Charles Dickens
and Disraeli. Dickens is clad in topper and
frock coat, while Disraeli wears a sac suit,
and, to the surprise of the writer, at any
rate, an ordinary felt hat of the type to be
seen by the thousand in Sydney. Save
for minor differences in the cut of waist-
coat openings, etc., both costumes would
pass unnoticed in any Australian street to-
day, whereas if a couple of women turned
out in the coverings worn by the beauties of
the ’seventies the whole of the police force
would have to be summoned to quell the riot.
“Mica” : There are more dangerous places
than underground workings. The surgeon-
superintendent of Broken Hill hospital says
in his annual report: “We have had to deal
with many fractures; contrary to general
belief, the majority were caused by street
and other accidents, rather than by accidents
on the mines.” Yet Broken Hill’s streets
are all two chains, and the traffic is a small
thing beside, that of the capitals.
THE SAME AS IN BOCCACCIO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
“They went with friends to many week-end car
parties, and on such occasions, as in the scene in
‘Boccaccio,’ there was kissing going on all round.’
—Witness in Sydney divorce case.
What scene? If any doubt prevails
I helpfully suggest you’ll find
That few of Giovanni’s tales
Don’t feature something of the kind.
Strait-laced conventions they dismissed;
Decorum’s rules were voted slow;
In short, they billed and cooed and kissed
The same as in Boccaccio.
No “lips that are for others” stuff
For them. They took their labial fun
Where’er it offered, sans rebuff,
And no one quoted Tennyson.
They’d more congenial things to do;
Endearments floated to and fro,
More intimate caresses, too,
The same as in Boccaccio.
No couple hesitated lest
Their osculation be descried.
What risk was there when all the rest
Were similarly occupied?
And who could any other blame?
’Twas obviously comma il faut
When he (or she) was doing the same —
The same as in Boccaccio.
W r hat’s in a glad Bohemian kiss
Among accommodating friends?
Ah, well, there’s no reply to this
Less cryptic than “It all depends.”
And if a moral draw I must,
I shall but say the passing show
Appears occasionally just.
The same as in Boccaccio.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The “Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY’’
FOR SEPTEMBER NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide,
. Perth.
ft
Members of the BRITISH MEDICAL
ASSOCIATION are granted a special
discount of 20 per cent, under our
Medical Practitioners’ Policy
which covers ALL SICKNESSES and
ALL Personal Accidents.
IMPORTANT FEATURES.
This Policy contains greater benefits, at a lower premium, than those issued by other Companies.
Blood-poisoning contracted through a wound is treated BY US as an accident, and in the event of
Death within 90 days the full capital sum is payable.
Hernia- if not post-operative is construed BY US as disablement bv accident, provided such Hernia
is contracted and surgically treated during the currency of the Policy.
Write for further particulars to
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association, LimitsJ
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in the principal cities of the Commonwealth and Dominion of New Zealand.
Assets exceed £3,000,000.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
HAVE YOU TRIED
“BOLBEC”
TOBACCO?
A delightful mixture that has
an instant appeal. “Bolbec
English-sliced Plug is specially
packed to retain its factory
freshness. A smoke you 11 enjoy.
Exclusive to Pike Brothers.
Per 2oz. tin
31-
23/6 per lb.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
OERSONAL
IREMS
Mrs. Blanche Ross-Watt, the new presi-
dent of the shire of Gisborne, is the first
woman to be chosen as head of a Vic. muni-
cipality. She has been six years in the coun-
cil. A near relative was in the Uppish
House, and a cousin is a leading member
of the Metropolitan Board of Works. Only
men are supposed to attend Governors’ levees,
but the president of Gisborne Shire may
make history by putting in an appearance
on June 3 next.
Dr. W. E. Warren, who died the other day
in Moree (N.S.W.) at 80, whs the last link
with the first British Medical Association ol
N.S.W. He helped to institute the first
lying-in hospital in Sydney at the old Bene-
volent Society buildings, arid for 35 years
he practised continuously at his Elizabeth-
street consulting-rooms. He was a life
governor of the Benevolent Society, of the
Blind, Deaf and Dumb Institute and of St.
Margaret’s Hospital. For some years after
leaving Sydney, for health reasons, he prac-
tised in North Queensland, and later went to
reside in Moree in order to benefit by the
medicinal baths there. Old Queenslanders
will remember a son,_ Garnet, who in the
'nineties was on the “Courier” staff as a
black-and-white artist, the first to break into
Queensland daily journalism.
Dr. Robert Gordon Craig, who died at. 61
last week, was a noted Macquarie-street
specialist and a good friend to medical re-
search, as well as to Sydney University,
where he graduated with distinction. Uro-
logy was his specialty, and he _ founded a
fellowship in that branch of medical science
with a gift of £20,000. The doctor, who
was a native of Ayrshire, Scotland, was resi-
dent medical officer at the Prince Alfred
Hospital before he settled down to private
practice. During the war he was Lieut.-
Colonel in charge of the hospital ship
Ivaroola. One of his two sons is a doctor,
and each of his two daughters a doctor’s
wife.
The Methodist Church has lost its most
fervent and eloquent preacher in Samuel
James Hoban, who passed out in Melbourne
at 66. Of his 44 years in the ministry 16
were spent at the Central Mission, which
has its headquarters «at Wesley Church,
Lonsdale-street; he had a spell in the Sydney
vineyard, too. There was a Celtic strain
in Dr. Hoban, as in so many notable preach-
ers, and until his health began to fail two
or three years ago he added indefatigable
organising capacity to his other gifts as a
church leader.
O’Malley Wood, chairman of the N.S.W.
Savings Bank and its president from 1907
to 1920. became a banker quite by accident.
When the century was very young and the
politicians were chasing Cocky’s vote harder
than usual, an Advances to Settlers Board
was carpentered; and O’Malley Wood, an
O’MALLEY WOOD, President of N. S.
Wales Savings Bank, which re-opened
on Monday.
old surveyor and Land Board chairman, was
put in charge. Later, when the little
Advances to Settlers office was turned
into the Rural Bank and made a part of the
G. 5.8., O’Malley Wood went up a step. He
was born at Cowu-a (N.S.W.) 75 years ago.
Canberra lost its oldest native when
Richard Shumach passed out at 89. His
father, John Shumach. arrived there in
1841; Richard was born in an old stone house
upon what are now the Canberra golf links
and was baptised by Queanbeyan’s first parson.
John Sliumach was one of the first wardens
of St. John’s, Canberra’s venerable church,
and his son was educated at the old St.
John’s school. He went on the land at 20,
selecting his own block at Ginninderra, and
was a noted cricketer in his spare time,
ranking as about the best batsman south of
Sydney in the ’sixties and ’seventies. He
leaves a widow, four daughters and three
sons, two of them schoolteachers.
The first manager of the Broken Hill mine
was Sam Sleep. ITe got £260 a year, “house
accommodation, and wood and water found.”
Before that Dave James, a station contractor,
had given an eye to the shaft-sinking job;
and he made himself very unpopular with the
syndicate (he was a member of it) by pre-
senting a claim for £lO for his services. The
syndicate (which used to meet at Mt. Gipps
homestead) paid the money; but at its next
meeting it. resolved that he wasn’t a fit and
proper person to be a director, and passed
him out.
The late Vic.
Police-chief
O’CALLAGHAN.
Tom O’Callaghan,
ex-Chief Commis-
sioner of Vic.
Police, who died
last week, rose
from the ranks to
become one of the
best heads the
force has known.
And he had other
than professional
interests: he was
the first president
of the A.N.A.
when it became a
united body in
1877, and was a
pillar of the His-
torical Society of
Vic. O’Callaghan’s
booklet on the
place names of
railway stations is
an interesting con-
tribution to his-
torical research.
For years after his
retirement, 18
years ago, he was
a familiar figure
on the City Court
Bench, as an hon-
orary justice. He
was 86.
“M udu ru p”:
P.M.G. “Texas”
Green, when in
Kalgoorlie a few
weeks ago, put the
clock back 20 years
in fancy for him-
self by shedding
his coat, resuming
his old place behind the counter where
he once toiled, and issuing a few money
orders with smiling dispatch, it having
been arranged that the local Mayor
should be the first customer. It was
rather a picturesque conception, which
may commend itself to other politicians de-
sirous of recalling their old-time industrial
activities. The nearest thing to a precedent
which writer can recall was during a war-
time appeal in Perth when it was announced
that the Speaker of the Assembly, “Mulga”
Taylor, would show that he hadn’t forgotten
his original calling by shearing a sheep. Unfor-
tunately the required animal proved to be un-
available at the last moment, and the show
was robbed of what would have been a popu-
lar feature. It is hard to imagine the mqrt
orthodox type of Speaker—a man like
Danny Levy, for instance —sheari-r a sheep.
Alfred West, who with his brother T.J.
founded West’s Pictures in Sydney 30 years
ago, is on his way back after a long absence
to spend his declining years with his son
at Opossum Creek (N.S.W.). The Wests
were the picture pioneers as far as N.S.W.
was concerned, although the cinema had pre-
viously appeared as a sideshow or a curiosity
turn in vaudeville. Alfred is now 70.
Vernon Smith, acting g.-m. of the Shell
Company of Australia, who addressed the
Constitutional Club at Melbourne the other
day on the economics of the oil industry,
dealing particularly with the menace of the
Russian dumping policy, has a creditable
record of military service behind him, though
he is but 37. A Londoner born, he left Carr*
bridge to enlist in the Duke of Welling-
ton’s Regiment in 1914, transferring two
years later to the Mesopotamian Expedi-
tionary Force; he saw service in India also
before' leaving the army. Returning to Eng-
land, he joined the Shell concern, in which
his promotion was rapid. He was appointed
general sales manager at Singapore in 1920.
and arrived in Australia, one of the youngest
men in big business, last year.
Robert Randolph Garran, Commonwealth
Solicitor-General for the past 15 years,
retires at the end of this month under the Gov-
ernment’s recent age-limit decision. He is 64,
and most of his life, since he finished a bril-
liant course at Sydney Uni., has been spent
as the trusty legal adviser of Parliaments
and politicians. Garran began as secretary
to the Minister of the day in the N.S.W.
Leg. Council; his was the hand that did
most of the drafting work for the Federal
Convention of ’97, and when the Common-
wealth arrived he knocked Parliamentary
bills into shape and secretaried the Attorney-
General’s department till the present billet
came his way. Next to John Quick he is
probably Australia’s foremost authority on
constitutional matters; in his lighter
moments he has a translation from the Ger-
man, “Heine’s Book of Songs,” to his credit.
He went with W. M. Hughes to the Peace
Conference at Versailles, and a first-grade
knighthood came later. Garran is a Sydney
native; his father, Andrew Garran, was a
well-known Ma State politician of other
days.
From I. IT. Boas, chief of the division of
Forest Products under the Council for Scien-
tific and Industrial Research :
In B. 12/8/’3l I notice .a statement that the cure
for collapse in timbers sent overseas was discovered
by Australian scientists working for this council.
While this division can claim some credit for the
extension of the use of the process of reconditioning
in Australia and its introduction into England, the
credit of the original discovery is due to J. Grant,
of Warburton (Vic.), and his son, George Grant, of
Alexandra (Vic.), who have been kiln-drying timber
for many yeais, and who, by experiment, found that
collapsed timber recovered its shape and dimensions
on steaming.
J. V. S. Barnett, dead in Townsville
recently at 79, was one of Queensland’s
oldest solicitors, having been admitted in
1876. A Cambridgeshire man, he served his
articles in Maryborough, and for a time
practised at Cooktown, then enjoying its
heyday as the port for the Palmer goldfield.
Later he went to Townsville, and for 32 years
was a member of the firm of Roberts, Leu
and Barnett, retiring from active work only
two years ago, after surviving both his
partners. He was an outstanding authority
on mining law.
The late Hall Caine, who made himself
famous with a queer mixture of Manx folk-
lore and somewhat depressing fiction on
the lines of the old Greek dramas, had some-
thing in common with Thomas Hardy, in
that he started life as an architect, and that
his little island, like Hardy’s Wessex, served
him as a setting wherein to portray all the
human emotions and tragedies in which he
specialised. It proved a best-selling mix-
ture ; the late Arnold Bennett made £lOO,OOO
by his pen, and Kipling has probably reaped
still a bigger reward, but the £250,000
which Caine is credited with leaving behind
him must constitute a record for an English
novelist and dramatist. With Caine there
goes a link with a group of mid-Victorian
celebrities; he was a protege of Dante Gab-
riel Rossetti. Man is to give him a statue,
and he deserves it, if only for the monument
that he has given Man.
Just celebrated her 88th birthday at Auck-
land, Mrs. N. G. Russell, who forms a link
with the coloniser of M.L., Edwin Gibbon
Wakefield. When Wakefield’s daughter
Nina died in Lisbon, he adopted her
companion, Miss De Olveria, and had her
taken to M.L., where she married. Mrs.
Russell is her third daughter.
The Rev. Charles John Prescott, who has
closed his 32 years of headmastership at
Dr.PRESCOTT, for 32
years headmaster of
Newington (Sydney).
Newington Col-
lege (Sydney)
amid much sad-
ness of fare-
well, had previ-
ously filled the
same position
at Burwood
Ladies’ College
for 13 years.,
lie was born at
Bridport (Dor-
set) 74 years
ago, graduated
at Worcester
College, Oxford,
and arrived in
Australia near-
ly half a cen-
tury back. Out-
si d e of his
scholastic duties
he has been
president of
the Methodist
Conference of
N.S.W. a n d
was appointed
chaplain of the
church in 1920.
P. R. le Cou-
teur, Prescott’s
successor, ha s
likewise had
academic experi-
ence with both
sexes; he was
headmaster of
th e Methodist
Ladies’ College,
Hawthorn
(Vic.), before
Hale (formerly High) School, Perth, annexed
him.
F. N. W. Cavaye, who died in Sydney last
week, was for many years in the front rank
of the Queensland squattocracy. Born in
Edinburgh, a son of General W. F. Cavaye,
of the old East India Company’s service, he
arrived in Central Queensland 55 years ago,
being associated for some time with the
Fairbairn family, with whom he took up
Langton and Logan Downs, in the Clermont
district. He had been living in retirement in
Sydney for some years, and was 75 at, the
end.
There is an old association between W. J.
S. Carroll, who carries the Federal Labor
banner in the municipal by-election for Phillip
ward, Sydney, and Donald Grant, the Lang-
Labor nominee. When Grant was one of 12
I.W.W. men charged with conspiracy and
arson, Carroll was associate to Justice Pring.
who tried the case.
Professor BERNARD DAWSON, of Adel-
aide, new Professor of Midwifery and
Gynaecology at the Uni. of N.Zealand.
Newton James Moore, sometime Premier
of Westralia, and nowadays Conservative
M.P. for Richmond (Surrey), is returning
to his native country for a trip; at a London
luncheon he mentioned that, when his father
made the voyage 95 years ago, it took four
months. Newton himself was born in 1870
at Bun bury, the town which has furnished
Australia with two other Premiers, Bigjohn
Forrest, who lasted 10 years, and James
Mitchell, now in his third term of _ office.
Moore himself had over four years in the
top place; then he decided in favor of the
Agency-General while the going was good,
and remained in the job for six years. After
that luck stuck to him, for he dropped with-
out a contest into the late George Reid’s
seat for St. George’s, Hanover-.square, and
when redistribution came he found other
suburban electorates equally amenable. A
rotund person with a cheerful disposition,
he has cut little ice in the Mother of Par-
liaments.
Dr. Marion Phillips, the Melbourne-born
M.P., who regrets having to fight against
her erstwhile leader, Ramsay Mac, but is
none the less determined to do so, went from
Melbourne Uni. to London' early in the
century on travelling and research scholar-
ships. She is a doctor of science, not medi-
cine, and after being “Chief Woman Officer
of the Labor Party” she arrived at West-
minster two years ago as senior member
from Sunderland, which had previously re-
turned two Conservatives. It was a three-
cornered fight that put in. the two Laborites
—they scored (roughly) 31,000 votes apiece,
the two retiring members tallied 29,000 each,
and two Liberals whipped in the field with
21,000 apiece. Dr. Phillips was one of
the 13 woman candidates elected —69 stood.
Norbert Keenan. Westralia’s Chief Secre-
tary, provides proof that a man can stay out
of Parliament for 20 years without losing
his punch. Keenan came straight from
Dublin to carve out a practice on the gold-
fields, won the Kalgoorlie seat (after being
Mayor) in 1905, and was Attorney-General
for three years in the Moore Ministry. Bui
he had differences with his colleagues which
resulted in his quitting them in 1909 and
resigning his seat in 1911. He kept him-
self aloof from politics, devoting himself to
his profession, until last year; then he re-
appeared, captured a Perth suburb, and
accepted a portfolio under his old colleague
Jimmy Mitchell. Keenan is a ready speaker
who frequently has something incisive to .say.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank Merger
Arrangements have been made whereby
the Bank of N. S. Wales will buy the busi-
ness of the Australian Bank of Commerce
for £1,280,000 in 64,000 fully-paid £2O
shares, two for every 69 A.B.C. shares. At
June 30 the A.8..C. had a paid capital of
£2,208,000 in fully-paid £1 shares, and
visible reserves of £1,138,267, making the
net tangible book value of the undertaking
£3,346,267. Thus, on balance-sheet figures,
its shareholders sacrifice the whole of their
reserves and Bs. sd. of every pound of paid
capital besides. But on the market A.B.C.
scrip was selling for only 14s. 2d. imme-
diately before the merge (the price rose
sharply to 16s. following the announcement),
whereas the Wales’s shares were fetching
£2B 2s. 6d. So on market values at the time
the deal was arranged A.B.C. shareholders
will receive a premium of 2s. Id. per share.
The price for the Wales’s shares has since
eased to £27 15s. ■
The deal will advance the paid capital of
the Wales to £8,780,000 in 439,000 fully-
paid £2O shares, and strengthen its reserves,
visible or otherwise, by £2.066,267. Also,
on the basis of figures at June 30, it will
add about £11,000.000 each of deposits and
advances to its books, probably at reduced
overhead. Its last quarterly div. was at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a., worth 4.6 p.c. to A.B.C.
shareholders; their last div was at the rate
of 3 p.c. p.a. They will also enjov greater
security and better prospects. The deal
should prove to be a satisfactory one all
round.
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. AVrit-
Feb., Profits. (16 p.c.). ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 516,340 375,000 20,000 2,833,057
Premiums on new shares, £400;000 3,233,057
1922.. 536,261 412,500 20,000 3,336,51 S
1923.. 552,894 450,000 3,439,712
1924.. 550,291 450.000 3,540,003
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,140,003
1925.. 590,399 487,500 4,242,902
1926.. 627,611 525,000 50,000 4,295,513
1927.. 627,426 525,000 50,000 4,347,939
Premiums on new shares, £600,000 4,947,939
1928.. 638,965 562,500 50,000 ) 4040404
Provident fund, £25,000.. ..) ’ ’
1929.. 611,932 600,000 25,000 4,930,336
(12A p.c.)
1930.. 525,655 500,000 25,000 4,936,991
(7 p.c.)
1931.. 283,019 280,000 4,940,010
The sharp drop of £242,636 in the admitted
net profit is due almost entirely, the board
says, to lighter exchange earnings, following
the drop in prices and heavy reduction of
imports. Also, there was a net contraction
of £1,400,104 in deposits (owing to a seep-
age of current accounts) and of £927,033 in
the bills figures. Advances were reduced by
£1,964,547 and liquids by £594,933. So, after
providing for contingencies, which have
vastly increased, gross profits were written
at £247,499 less than the previous year’s:—
1929. 1930. 1931.
Gross profit . . £1,536,950 £1,487,051 £1,239,552
Exes. . . . . 925,018 961,396 956,533
Net profit .. £611,932 £525,055 £283,019
Thus the net result was a shade over 7 p.c.
on capital as against 13.1, 15.2, 17, 16.7 and
16.7 p.c. back to 1926. The div. was dropped
to 10 p.c. p.a. for the first half of the term,
and 4 p.c. p.a. for the last half, making 7 p.c.
for the year; it had been steady at 15 p.c.
for the decade to the close of accounts in
1929, but was reduced to p.c. in 1930.
Payment is in sterling equivalent, so the 4
p.c. is equal to £5 3s. 6d. per cent, in Aus-
tralian currency at the present demand rate.
In the final reckoning, however, share pre-
miums make the div. worth only a shade over
half the declared rate on three of the four
millions of capital.
The market prices the £lO shares paid to
£5 at £7 12s. 6d. as against £lO 10s. a year
ago. At the lower figure the return is 2.4
p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, or 5.9 p.c. should
the distribution be lifted to 9 p.c. A 9 p.c.
div. would call for 4 p.c. on total funds
(capital and reserves combined) at Feb. 28;
this does not seem too much to expect under
settled conditions, though there is little pros-
pect of an early recovery of exchange earn-
ings, and the drop in the return from
Government securities, growth in fixed
deposits and simultaneous reduction in
advance and deposit rates will also affect
earnings. Last year’s result was 2.7
p.c. on total funds as against 5.8 p.c.,
6.8 p.c. and 7.1 p.c. for the three preceding
years. The board has earmarked £1,500,000
of visible accumulations as a currency
reserve. This has no special significance be-
yond suggesting that the sterling equivalent
of the net asset value of the undertaking is
now that much less than its book figure.
Of the deposits 66 p.c. was interest bear-
ing at the close of accounts; the proportion
had risen to 70.9 p.c. for the quarter ended
June 30: —
Liabilities.
1929 1930. 1931.
Notes .. •• £579,729 £603,109 £544,041
Deposits .. .. 35,644,350 34,584,517 33,184,413
Bills, etc. . . 3,507,051 2,386,052 1,451,091
Assets.
Liquid assets- .. 18,127,290 13,481,658 12,886,725
Advances .. .. 30,454.431 32,894,851 30,930,304
Premises . • .» 385,745 384,160 382,526
The contraction in the note' issue is due
largely to the special taxation thereon in
Maoriland. Remittances in transit
(£2,043,524) w r ere £1,521,530 lower. At
the close of accounts £36 12s. of every
£lOO of the public’s money was held liquid;
cash, bullion and call money in London
totalled £8,435.603; Government securi-
ties, £2,407,598; remittances in transit,
£2,043,524. The other £22,292,820 coming
to'depositors and others was represented by
advances and premises with a combined book
value of £31,312,830. The bank was holding
only £3 18s. 7d. of the public’s money for
every 7 £ of its own. It is a very satisfactory
position.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
, Dividends , To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 102,527 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 35,560 66,967 259,070
1921.. 88,363 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 52,803 311,873
1922.. 61,035 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 25,475 337,348
1923.. 36,127 6 „ 10 ~ 35,560 567 337,915
1924.. 46,374 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 10,814 348,729
1925.. 36,880 6 „ 8 „ 28,760 8,120 356,849
1926.. 31,060 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 352,349
1927.. 63,384 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 27,824 380,173
1928.. 47,524 6 „ 9 „ 32,160 15,364 395,537
1929.. 41,455 6 „ 7,, 25,360 16,095 411,632
1930.. 65,409 6 „ 9 „ 32,160 33,249 444,881
Written off, £30,026 414,855
1931.. 9,127 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 18,560 -r- 405,422
Passenger and freight earnings shrank more
and more as the year advanced. So
despite a cut in wages, a reduction
in the price of coal and other savings, the
operations of the fleet resulted in a loss, the
board says. It is the first time this co.’s
ships have failed to earn a profit since the
Navigation Act gave local cos. a monopoly
of the inter-State trade, and, with the
moderate inflation and artificial prosperity of
the war and post-war periods, pushed up
both earnings and wages.
The profit, which was £56,282 short of
the previous year’s, was derived from invest-
ments outside the business, though what
they turned in is not mentioned. Allowing
for the pref. div. (£1560), there was enough
to show but 2.2 p.c. on the £340,000 of ord.
capital as against 18.7, 11.7, 13.5, 18.1, 8.6
and 10.3 p.c. back to 1925. Still, a final at
the rate of 4 p.c. p.a. was paid, making 5 p.c.
for the year, reserves being dipped into for
£9433 to do it. Also £30,026 was struck
off to cover the loss on the sale, of the
Woolgar to Norwegian buyers, reducing the
reserve for depreciation, renewals, bad debts
and other contingencies to £328,254. Because
of this doubtful item the reserves are called
nominal in the table; they were, notwith-
standing the year’s writing off, still £39,422
in excess of capital at June 30. The sale of
surplus tonnage when prices were high is
largely responsible for the size of the heap.
Conditions have not since warranted re-
employment of much of the money in the busi-
ness, so £249,363 had been invested in public
securities (£153.238), debentures, etc.
(£61251 and on fixed deposit (£90,000) at
June 30. A net return of 4 p.c. frorn these
investments would cover the pref. div. and
show 3.6 p.c. on ord. capital. The co.’s
interest in coal is confined to agency and
carrying work.
The finances are in splendid trim to
weather a blow:—
1921. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £366,000 £366,000 £366,000 £366,000
Liabilities .. 128,600 78,200 64,167 44,760
Steamers, etc. ( r 5 432,647 474,026 414,525
Freehold, plant ) ’ ( 52,319 51,932 51,698
Stores, etc. . . 38,256 11,757 13,916 8,031
Book debts .. 105,144 86,497 70,870 57,874
I n v e s tments,
cash.. .. 365,621 232,800 280,384 291,633
After reducing the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £19,407, spare cash from the
sale and reduction of book debts enabled
£11,249 net to be added to investments.
These include shares in other cos. (£41,273),
mainly Hobson’s Bay Dock and Engineering
Co., thrown off as a separate concern in
1926; it made only “a small profit” last
year. Including shares, the more or less
liquid surplus (£304,747) was £17,660
stronger than at the previous balance.
On the market 12s. is offered for the ords.
as against 235. 6d. a year ago. The return
at the lower figure is 8.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The book value of the backing is
435. lOd. in net tangibles. The prefs. can
be had around par; there are 26,000 of them
carrying a fixed cumulative 6 p.c. and enjoy-
ing priority as to capital.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
& £ £ £
1921.. 16,224 7 p.c. = 13,910 2314 21,558
1922.. 14,186 5 „ „ 11,985 2201 19,357,
1923.. 23,399 7} „ „ 17,987 5412 13,945
1924.. 28,768 8 „ „ 19,200 9568 4,377
Reserves.
1925.. 36,737 10 „ „ 27,532 9205 4,828
Added to intangibles, £3830 .. 998
Prefs.,
7$ p.c. Ordinaries.
£ £
1926.. 39,777 9,309 8 p.c.=24 J)00 6,468 7,466
Added to intangibles, £3750 .. 3,716
1927.. 48,803 20,256 8 p.c.=24,000 4,547 8,263
1928.. 54,833 22,500 7 „„ 21,000 11,333 19,596
1929.. 47,496 22,500 6J„ „ 19,500 5,496 25,092
1930.. 21,450 22,500 Nil 24,042
1931.. 321 Nil Nil 321 24,363
The outstanding features there are quick
development during the boom period and
liberal distribution of earnings. Hence the
meagre support for capital—visibly only
£24,363 in excess of goodwill (£27,000) at
June 30—and the uncertain position of
shareholders. Last year, after allowing for
bad debts, etc., gross profits (£57,347) slipped
£50.705. Exes. (£57,026) were got back
£29,666, leaving only £321 net; so both
profs, and ords. went hungry.
The book value of advances rose from
£379,876 in 1921 to £904,429 at the close of
accounts in 1928, and £361,630 of fresh capi-
tal was got in and £154,499 was added to the
debt over the same period. Since then the
heavy fall in the price of wool and other
staples has dealt a smashing blow to earn-
ings and values, and the debts question has
become a worrying problem. Ouside lia-
bilities are being worked down as money
from the repayment of advances becomes
available:—
1921. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £238,370 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Liabilities .. 225,569* 380,068 338,000 292,774
Freeholds, plant,
stock, etc... 93,3201 114,113 128,504 118,905
Advances & bills 379,876 904,429 831,389 778,212
Investments & cash 18,373 20,300 20,370
♦Less cash in hand, flncludes goodwill.
Last year a reduction of £53,177 in debtors’
balances, and of £9599 in fixed assets, etc. —
the etcetera comprises some merchandise —
enabled the final pref. divs. for the previous
term to be paid and £45.226 to be knocked
off the amount coming to sundry creditors.
The more or less liquid surplus (£505,808)
was £7BBl lighter than at the close of
accounts in 1930. The whole position hinges
on the ability of clients to stand up to their
commitments. The immediate outlook is for
a good season, and some relief from the bur-
den of interest is promised; much will de-
pend upon the course of wool prices and
realisation and distribution costs, and the
size of the contingency reserve.
The market prices the ords. at 4s. 4d.;
they are covered by net tangibles with a
book value of 21s. 7d. The A and B prefs.—
150,000 of each ranking in the order stated
—carry a fixed cumulative 7i p.c. and have
priority as to capital. The A’s are offered
at 11s., and the B’s at ss. lOd.; they are
covered by net tangibles with a book value
of £4 3s. 4d. and £3 3s. 4d. respectively.
Cresco Fertilisers
, Dividends \ To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 58,970 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =51,243 7,727 38,460
Added Service Shares reserve, £35,000.. 73,460
1929.. 65,028 7 p.c. 10 p.c. =63,573 1,455 74,915
Unexplained additions to reserves, £BOOO.. 82,916
1930.. 64,224 * Nil 6,610 57,614 140,529
Loss.
1931.. 26,260 Nil Nil 114,269
*6 p.c. on new prefs. and 5 p.c. on old prefs.
More wheat was planted, and though spring
rains were disappointing the ears filled well
and the average yield in S. Aus. rose from
6.4 to 8.3 bushels per acre; there was an
all-round increase in the figures for the other
States, too. But the grain, worth around
ss. a bushel to the grower of recent years,
now brought him less than 25.; and costs
were stubborn. Pastoralists had a similar ex-
perience; so the demand for super, eased by
about 30 p.c. Stocks began to accumulate,
and the co. suspended manufacture in
October last; also primage and exchange
bumped up costs. Thus from one cause and
another there was a drop of £49,015 in gross
profits (£79,774) while ordinary trading exes.
(£47,034) were got back only £17,531. Then
the debts question became acute; many ivho
held part of the 1929-30 crop in anticipation
of better returns became embarrassed by over-
advances, and the co. struck off £59,000 for
bad and doubtful debts. Thus a loss of
£26,260 showed up, and no divs. were paid.
After satisfying the pref. requirements, the
ords. had averaged a shade under 10 p.c. for
the decade to the close of accounts in 1929.
In these circumstances it is a wise man
who takes in his belt and prepares for
emergencies; so the board adopted a cash-
trading policy, and gave close attention to
the financial structure. Drought relief legis-
lation and the assistance growers got from
their own organisations helped, and debtors
were able to reduce their balances by no less
than £251,870, including the amount struck
off, of course —it is a fine testimony to the
efforts of the farmers to meet their obligav
tions; —
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £290,031 £733,819 £734,574 £734,624
Liabilities .. 57,418 311,996 498,433 187,333
Freeholds and ‘
plant .. 307,474 654,879 608,211 -j 462,010
Stocks .. .. J l 131,228
Shares in other
cos 78,750 90,000 90,001
Advances to AV.A.
co 31,438 - 78,620
Debtors .. 69,840 414,081 602,375 350,505
Cash, etc. .. 4,257 5,155 939 2,482
With the assistance of £78,620 repaid by
the subsidiary, the board was able to lop
£311,100 off the outside debt, reducing it
to £187,333 at June 30. There was practi-
cally no change in the book value. of fixed
assets, the chairman says. So, including
stocks, shown separately for the first time,
the more or less liquid surplus (£296,882)
was over a couple of thousand pounds lighter
than at the previous balance. Debtors’
balances are the key of the financial posi-
tion ; their soundness will largely depend
upon the course of wool and wheat prices.
The Westralian subsidiary (paid capital
£312,505) showed a loss of £8200; that was
after striking off £19,500 for bad debts, etc.
To meet outside liabilities of £86,673 it had
more or less liquids totalling £136,396 at
June 30.
Though heavy rains affected plantings in
the Riverina and over the border in Vic.,
prospects throughout the rest of Australia’s
wheat belt are for a heavier crop, planted at
less cost than its immediate predecessor.
Still, the fertiliser industry can take care of
a much bigger demand than has thus far
existed, and the earnings of the cos. may
suffer further yet; notwithstanding that these
cos. have given a new permanence to wheat-
growing and fat-lamb raising.
The market prices the 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
(109,685 of them) at 16s. Allowing for
the accrued div., the return at that price is
8.3 p.c. The book value of the cover amounts
to £7 13s. in net tangibles. For the pound
ords., which are covered by 235. 4d. in net
tangibles, ss. 6d. is offered.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1921.. 20,004 6 p.c. = 13,200 6,804 6,804
1922.. 17,404 7 ~-,, 15,400 2,004 8,808
1923.. 17,795 8 „ ~ 17,000 195 9,003
Inner reserves disclosed, £25,000 34,003
1924.. 17,621 8 p.c. = 17,600 21 34,621
Capital returned, £llO,OOO
1925.. 11,103 10 p.c. = 11,000 103 34,127
1926.. 11,008 10 „ „ 11,600 8 34,135
1927.. 11.876 10 „ „ 11,000 876 35,011
1928.. 10,094 10 „ ~ 11,000 34,105
1929.. 10,016 10 „ ~ 11,000 33,121
1930.. 10,005 8 „ „ 8,800 1,205 34,326
Written off, £25,000 . . .. 9,326
1931.. 5,017 5 p.c. = 5,500 8,843
The drop in profits and the div. is due to a
lighter distribution by Kandos Cement, in
which this co., a couple of years ago, held
100,000 £1 shares. The co.’s own tile works
at Granville, which have apparently turned
in no profit worth mentioning for several
years, closed down at the end of the last
term, stocks being sufficient to take care of
demand for “some considerable time.” Also
£25,000 was struck off the book value of
shareholdings, etc. —the etcetera comprises
some book debts —reducing the item to
£84,342 at June 30, or £32,093 less than at
the previous balance.
Kandos, for many years a steady 10 p.c.
proposition, paid 5 p.c. from profits equal to
5.2 p.c. on its capital for the 12 months to
June 30. It intends to return 10 p.c. of
capital by distributing £84,233 in Common-
wealth bonds when the conversion loan is
out of the way; but the market, doubtful of
the future of the industry, prices the fully-
paid pound .shares at Os. To eliminate waste-
ful competition and overlapping Ivandos and
Australian Cement (Vic.) recently amalga-
mated, each receiving a million pa-ids in Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Pty., which took
over both cos.’ working assets, including
freeholds. But now that expenditure on
public works, especially roadmaking, and
activity in the construction trades has been
brought up with a round turn, the outlook
for the overcapitalised cement industry
bristles with difficulties.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
Goodiet a-nd Smith’s finances:—
1920. 1930. 1931.
Machinery, plant, etc... £54,000 £35,000 £35,000
Stocks 38,085 1,393 7,714
Book debts, shales in
other cos. and cash.. 267,322 116,435 84,342
£359,407 £152,828 £127,050
Liabilities .. .. 129,858 5,202 5,462
Net assets .. .. £229,549 £147,626 £121,594
The year’s reduction of £26,032 in net assets
is due mainly to the writing down already
referred to. Stocks arc in at cost, and plant
is reported in good order.
A few years ago the co. decided to get cut
of the timber business and give more atten-
tion to tile-making. The old freeholds were
sold, and unearned increment provided much
of the £135,000 of bonus scrip scattered dur-
ing the four years to the close of accounts in
1924. Then 10s. per share was returned in
cash, reducing paid capital to the present
£llO,OOO.
On the market 13s. is asked for the pound
shares; but buyers look at the price for
Kandos and remain silent.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
To lie- Re-
Dcc., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1921.. 13,935 20 p.c. = 11,700 1676 5,888
1922.. 14,462 20 „ „ 11,700 2762 7,709
1923.. 13,197 20 „ „ 11,700 1497 9,206
1924.. 12,426 174 „ „ 11,133 1293 10,499
1925. . 16,034 174 „ „ 15,400 634 11,133
1926.. 18,793 174 „ „ 15,400 3393 14,526
Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 18,926
Struck off plant, £3500 ... .. 15,426
1927.. 19,760 20 p.e. = ' 18,602 1158 16,584
Premiums on shares, £17,600 .. 34,184
1928.. 19,975 174 p.c. = 19,015 960 35,144
Premiums on shares, - £30,800 .. 65,944
1929.. 24,432 15 p.c. = 21,010 3422 69,366
June, Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 73,766
1930-. 11,887 15 p.c. = .11,770 117 73,883
Premiums on shares, £BBOO .. 82,683
Written off, £6OOO .. .. 76,683
1931.. 14,275 10 p.c. = 17,380 73,578
•Half-year.
This Melbourne “dry” hotel—it had its be-
ginnings as one of the coffee palaces of the
’eighties—paid divs. averaging 17f p.c. for
the decade to the close of accounts in 1926;
the figure looks higher than it really is be-
cause half the capital was written off a few
years previously. Then the old Collins-
street lease fell in, another was secured
(it has about 60 years to run), a
nine-storeyed building was put up and
cafeterias were opened. Here no rent
is paid ; the co. spent £5OOO on the first and
ground floors, occupied by the vendor, the
Baptist church. Earnings responded as the
new space became available, and it was
hoped to stabilise the div. at 15 p.c.
But hopes based on the performances ,of
recent years may not be realised. Butting
the 1930 figures on to an annual basis there
was a slip of £23,377 in gross earnings last
year:—
Exes. p.c.
Dec., Revenue. Exes, of Revenue.
1925.. £76,072 £60,038 78.9
1926.. 83,308 64,515 77.4
1927.. 94,844 75,084 79.1
1928.. 107,075 87,100 81.3
1929.. 133,483 109,051- 81.7
June,
1930*. 68,975 57,088 82.7
1931.. 114,573 100,298 87.5
•Half-year.
Thus the net result fell away to 8.3 p.c. on
average capital compared with 15.1, 17.4,
18.3, 21.3, 21.3 and 18.2 p.c. back to 1925.
Still, alO p.c. div. was paid; it is expected
that recent economies will improve the cur-
rent year’s result. However, earnings are on
the down grade, competition in the catering-
business is very keen and taxation has
become burdensome. Of course, the co. may
attract the patronage of some who formerly
sought more expensive accommodation; but
it will be very fortunate if it can maintain
a 10 p.c. div., notwithstanding that (forget-
ting all about the written-off capital) share
premiums make 10 p.c. worth no more than
6.4 p.c. on two-thirds of the investment.
During the term a 10-year lease was
bought, a new cafeteria was opened, and
£6OOO was struck off its book value, reducing
it to £6474; that was to lighten the capital
redemption charge. There is nothing un-
comfortable about the finances :
Dec., Dec., June, June,
1923. 1928. 1930. . 1931.
Paid capital .. £58,500 £127,008 £174,857 £176,000
Mortgages .. 15,000 47,911 46,354 45,237
Other liabilities 5,476 61,718 9,876 11,050
Freehold .. 74,547 158,709 165,617 165,403
Leasehold .. 85,604 102,984 105,982
Plant, etc. .. 13,236 37,289 41,024 39,885
Debtors, cash,
etc. . . 6,249 1,363 7,112 3,396
The mortgage is being gradually worked
down. The floating debt, including something
for taxation, exceeded liquids by £7654 at
June 30.. Much depends upon whether expen-
diture on replacements, etc., charged to earn-
ings, proves to be sufficient to cover actual
depreciation.
The 10s. paid shares, which brought over
255. on the market a couple of years ago, are
now priced at 14s. At that figure the return
is 7.1 p.c., so long as the 10 p.c. div. con-
tinues.
N.S.W. Mont de Piete
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ . £ £ £
1921.. 21,726 121 p.c. = 19,939 1787 31,258
1922.. 26,351 121 „ „ 23,754 2597 33,865
1923.. 28,834 121 „ „ 25,511 3323 37,178
1924.. 31,320 121 ~ „ 28,125 3195 40,373
1925.. 31,056 121 ~ ~ 30,988 68 40,441
1926.. 31.989 12.1 „ „ 31,250 739 41,150
1927.. 32,820 12| „ „ 31,250 1570 42,750
1928.. 29,605 11.1 ~ „ 28,125 1480 44,230
1929.. 31,245 10 „ „ 29,141 2104 46,334
1930.. 31,777. 10 ~ „ 30,000 1777 48,111
Written off securities, £5OOO .. 43,111
1931.. 13,114 32p.e.= 11,250 1864 44,9.0
Unemployment and reduced earnings thinned
the queue of borrowers aud prevented the
(Continued on page 16.)


A
O/
>
/*
m
wr
*
W s-'■
m
m
o
ii
m
G
G
»v,:
3k-
s>
O
-
5c
♦ff*
<<;
h
k
1
<o
ii
<*>
iMi
* :
*
m
<b
\V>
&
%
1
m
d
Pkts.l/-
of 14
Q I IZ i 0
9 /l su!JL
And in Tins of 50, 100 and 150. Also 50s. Round Air-tight Tins.
Made in Your Own Country
at the Garden Factory-
Raleigh Park— by
W. D. & H. O. WILLS
(Australia) Ltd.
2Z60 C


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and' Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Because Pioneer Wood Pipe is non-corrosive, it
gives longer, more economical and equally efficient
service when compared with any other type of con-
duit. These facts-—when considered with its initial
low cost and ease and cheapness of handling and
laying—provide the reason why Pioneer Wood Pipe
is to-day recognised as the ideal conduit for water
supply or any undertaking calling for the use of
piping. Fullest particulars on request to the Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Foots -
cray, Victoria. — Advt.
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons.
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
AMP
' and it hasn’t been
difficult either' -
"" es «»us»»®
Mutual
&\\<^
m
t~s
<s*E
£1913 at
65 years by
investing 10/- a week
TTERE is the story of a young man who married
in 1891. He was 25 years of age. He was
not drawing a large salary, but he and his bride
decided that they could save 10/- a week to invest
in an A.M.P. policy on his life. He took out an
Endowment Assurance Policy for £lOOO, payable
at 65 years of age or previous death. He paid
his premiums regularly. His bonuses accumulated.
The policy grew in value. This year he reached
the appointed age and the cheque he received
amounted to £1913, a very satisfactory sum to
receive in times like these, and it is no wonder that
he smiles.
There is an A.M.P. policy to meet every man’s (and
every woman’s) need. Needs differ, so policies
differ. You, whether you are 25, 35 or 45, should
be building up your assets in this way. Life assur-
ance is the great stand-by in difficult times. Ten
shillings a week invested in an A.M.P. policy will
give you a far greater return than the same sum
saved in a bank.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send an experienced
officer to talk your need over with you—or write
for full particulars.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
WITH OFFICES IN THE CAPITAL AND PRINCIPAL
CITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH AND NEW ZEALAND.
ASSETS:
£83,200,000.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
AMP
redemption of many pledges, while the Mora-
torium Act proved an obstacle to the collec-
tion of book debts and the sale of seeuri-
, ties. Moreover, the persistent slip in values
wiped out the margin in some of these frozen
assets, so £5OOO was openly struck off the
book value of advances, and another £JoO_
of existing reserves has been specially ear-
marked against further probable shrinkage.
Gross earnings (£41,287) slipped £lo,JoB,
while taxation added £2755 to outgoings
(£28,173), leaving the net result at 4.3 p.c.
on capital as against 10.5, 10.7, 11.8, 10. l
and 12.7 p.c. back to 1926. Shareholders,
who had received an average of 111 p.c. over
the preceding 20 years, had to be content
with 34 p.c.; no final div. was paid. _ Results
will remain uncertain until conditions be-
come more settled.
The next table shows the recent quick
growth of the business, and how it was
financed: —•
1 920. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £147,245 £250,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 3,163 105,610 76,439 77,872
Freeholds, etc. 26,678 60,277 66,613 66,324
Advances .. 158,979 349,037 370,504 354,933
Cash .. .. 2,215 3,026 2,435 1,590
Thus there were advances, and a trifle of
cash, with a book value of £4 11s. 7d. to
cover every £1 coming to creditors at June
30. Though advances shrunk £15,571, there
was a net increase of £1433 in the debt, of
which £28,804 was coming to the bank and
£49,068 to sundry creditors.
The pound shares, which fetched 38s. in
the market a couple of years ago, are now
priced at 14s. 6d. The return at 14s. 6d.
would be 6.9 p.c. oil a 5 p.c. div. basis.
Federal Deposit Bank Suspends
The Federal, a building bank operating in
Brisbane and suburbs, suspended payment on
Friday, Sept. 4. Over the last eleven months
£131,000 had been withdrawn by depositors,
most of it during the last few days. Treas-
urer Barnes, after a conference over the
week-end with the associated banks in Bris-
bane, says that the Federal may be reopened
“at a very early date.”
At the close of business on Friday,
assets consisted of mortgages, £580,000;
overdrafts, £340,000; Government securities,
£210,000 (market value) ; fixed deposits with
other banks, £70.000; and bank premises,
£56,500. Liabilities amounted to £870,000.
A large wad of the Government secu-
rities was in old 1931’5. The bank had
assumed that these would be redeemed on due
date, and it conducted its business accord-
ingly. When the rush came, the directors
declined to throw the Government paper on
the market at a heavy loss, and suspended
payment. The book value of the surplus of
assets over liabilities amounted to £386,500,
equal to £1 3s. sd. per £1 of paid capital
(£328,025). There is another £172,000 of
capital uncalled.
The co.’s mortgage business is claimed to
have been conducted with caution, and trad-
ing for the current year is expected to show
a satisfactory profit, without taking into
account overdue interest.
Formed in 1921 to handle the huge carry-
over of 2,691,756 bales from the Imperial
wool-purchase scheme, Bawra sold its last
bale in May, 1924, without seriously dis-
turbing the market for intervening clips. The
liquidators took over in June, 1926; the time
since has been largely occupied in litigation
concerning taxation. This has now been
cleared up with a gain to shareholders of
£306,067, equal to 64 d. per share. A final
distribution of approximately £753,532, oi-
ls. 4d. a share, is to be made on March 15,
1932. Unclaimed dividends (£37,657 at June
10) will be paid oyer to the Victorian State
Treasury, which will place the amount so
transferred to the credit of an “unclaimed
moneys fund.” It is proposed to hand over
any other moneys remaining in the liquida-
tors’ hands after the final distribution to
rhe Australian Pastoral Research Trust, Ltd.
* * * *
Hobart Gas Co., despite a decrease in
sales of gas and residuals, shows practically
the same profits this year as last, and again
pays a comfortable 7 per cent, as its 147th
dividend. An efficient carbonising plant,
‘improved methods, and an advantageous pur-
chase of Maitland (N.S.W.) coal constitute
the three-pronged implement with which the
directors claim to have kept the wolf of
depression at bay during the year. But if coal
goes up five shillings a ton in January next,
when Lang’s threatened increase of crane
and transport charges come into force, the
next dividend may be less. The price charged
by the co. is 9s. 7d. per 1000 ft.: the State
supplies electric power for domestic purposes
at 1.2 d. per unit, but gas boils the morning
kettle soonest.
Mt. Isa Prop., the concern which Ran-
dolph Bedford floated, went into liquidation
early in 1926. having sold its outfit to Mt.
Isa for 125,000 Isa shares. Of this lot
112,500 were long ago distributed; the bal-
ance were held to pay income tax and meet
other claims. There was some litigation;
but at last the whole business has been fixed
up and 3450 Isa shares arc left. These are
now being pased out to old Isa Prop, share-
holders —13 for every 1000 shares held, with
fractions payable in cash.
The reported gold find at Graven Creek,
near Gloucester (N.S.W.), is really on Com-
monwealth Creek, three miles above its junc-
tion with Craven. It is in the same district
as the Tallegallali and other mines from
which small but rich shoots were formerly
got near the surface. It has been prospected
by the Bartlett brothers by shallow trenching,
and carries a quartz reef 2ft. 6in. wide at
the surface, narrowing to Ift. sin. at a depth
of sft. in tufaoeous country rock. Gold
values are mostly confuted to the hanging
wall. These are promising, but past experi-
ence shows that gold-containing formations
in this country have been very patchy; it
is too early yet to say whether the find is
of permanent value.
In its report to the League of Nations for
1929-30 the Mandated New Guinea Adminis-
tration shows gold exports at 42.8190 z. valued
at £96 338, of which the Administration took
£4621 in royalties. In the previous year
79.7450 z. valued at £179.433 were exported.
Decrease is due to the big comnanies con-
centrating on developmental work. The
'total area of mining leases in tup Morobe
district at June 80, 1930, was 22.045 acres.
Bigger figures are expected next year, when
the machinery now being transported by
aeroplane is working.
* *
On behalf of Sons of Gwalia, Bewick,
Moreing and Co. have taken an option over
a number of leases south of the old Lance-
field, at Laverton (W.A.). The grade of the
ore is about 80s. per ton, which would not
leave much to come and go on if it were
not for the exchange premium. During the
years Bewick, Moreing and Co. sunervised the
Lancefield, its gold extraction problem was
a nightmare to them. However, the Sons or
Gwalia staff now has a lot of experience to
draw upon, and may not make many mistakes
with treatment processes.
* * # *
It costs the Kalgoorlie mining cos. between
355. and 40s. per ton to mine and treat ore,
notwithstanding many statements to the effect
that mining and treatment in W.A. runs
round about £l. Wiluna is an exception, but
its mine was well developed before treatment
commenced, and that means a lot in keeping
costs down.
* * * *
Kimberley Options’ last yield looked good
enough; from 280 tons of stone 22dwt. of
gold per ton was obtained. But the scrip
market was expecting a 2oz. yield, so the
price of the shares dropped from 2& to Is.
Numerous parties have been tackling the
May Queen mine, Southern Cross, for 20
years—some with success. W. Heydon is
the latest to have faith in the show and
there is nothing wrong with his last return
—2130 z. from 60 tons.
sfc si*
Alex. Barr and Jack Clements, of the
Radio, Southern Cross, continue to treat
about 100 tons of ore per month for an aver-
age yield of £lO per ton. They have been
doing this for over 15 years.
t- * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Re what do you think are the
chances of depositors being paid 20 s. in the
£1? (2) Do you think it will he possible for
depositors to receive periodical payments of
a reasonable percentage of their deposits from
time to time? (3) In your opinion would
it be fair business to assign a deposit for
several hundred pounds at a discount of
20 p.c. to 25 p.c.?— 5526. _ ,
O) Whether the bank will pay 20s. in
the £ depends on (1) what the assets realise ;
(2) what the realisation costs in excess (if
anything) of the earnings. Treasury deposits
and public securities may reasonably be
expected to realise 20s. in the £, unless some
party cuts the principal down on the pretext of
requiring further sacrifice from the capitalist.
Mortgages, other debts and premises were
together in at £4,614,126 on June 30,1930. If
we assume that the State will honor its
bonds, these others are the only assets liable
to depreciation ; and on the other side there
were reserves Of £1,658,465. That should
easily take care of any depreciation in these
assets. So, if the honor and integrity of
the State are assumed, the bank will cer-
tainly pay 20s. in the £. (2) The bank will
be able to repay by instalments. But repay-
ment will not be rapid unless the bank
can make arrangements with somebody to
take over the Government stocks. If, on
the other hand, they are sold before they
mature, it will probably be at a heavy dis-
count. That is why it was so desirable that
the bank should be merged into the Common-
wealth Bank. The worst thing that can
happen to such securities is to have to sell
them; therefore the best thing to do with
the deposits was (and still is) to put them in
some place where they will not be asked for
so that securities need not be sold to pay
them. (3) Nominally the deposits can be
expected to earn 3-J p.c., capital repayable
by instalments; period indefinite. It does
not seem that a discount of 20-25 p.c. is
excessive in such circumstances.
I invested in Adelaide Steamships and
S.A. Gas five years ago. To me as a working
man they seemed the soundest of invest-
ments. Should I hang on, or cut further pos-
sible loss? —5508.
That question (with variations) comes
20 times a week, so some general remarks
may be appropriate. First, if you sold what
would you do with the money V The trying-
pan is still better than the fire; and at least
you are in the frying-pan, the shares men-
tioned being still among the pick. Hundreds
in N.S.W. sold shares when the markets
crashed and put the money into the Govern-
ment Savings Bank; and even this bankbroke,
though its deposits were guaranteed by the
senior State. Too many people fancy that
the cos. they have the bad luck to be m
have suffered specially; the chances are that
if they reviewed the whole market they
would find that their little lot had come
through very well. To sum up, a fall in
market value is no justification whatever for
selling. If you get out of what you are in,
you can only get into something else which
is under the same depressing influences. Cer-
tainly there may be some things that look
better buying than others and others that
look better selling; but all such operations
are to-day largely speculative.
(1) What rights has the Commonwealth
Bank got (if any) which other banks haven't
got? '(2) Do these rights (if any) make the
Commonwealth Bank stronger than others:
5530
(1) it has (a) the sole right to issue notes
up to an amount determined by Parliament;
(b) in certain circumstances, “Crown pre-
ference.” For instance, if a bank were being
pushed for money, the Commonwealth Bank
could supply it with notes (up to the statu-
tory limit) and it would have first call on
the bank’s assets. (The bad luck of the
N. S. Wales G.S.B. was that it, too, was a
Government bank, and because of that the
Crown had no preferential rights. There-
fore the Commonwealth Bank couldn t make
the advances of notes which it would have
been quite safe to make had the G.S.B. no.
been a State Bank.) (2\ The strength of
the Commonwealth Bank lies almost as much
in what it can do for others as in what it
can do for itself.
I have investments in S. Africa. What
effect would bimetallism have upon them? —
5513.
It would make money cheaper, and so put
up the price of investments—in S. Africa as
elsewhere. Tlie fact of S. Africa being a big
gold-producer would not apparently make
any difference.
I have some telluride of gold specimens
that I want to convert into free gold. What
is the treatment? —5191.
Crush the specimens to a grade not
coarser than fine sea sand and roast in a
suitable metal tray or on £ piece of black
sheet-iron in the open air. Apply heat slowly
and gradually raise till the crushed material
is dull red, and keep it so for half an Hour.
Allow to cool, mix it with an equal weight
of flux consisting 3 parts by weight of
borax glass and 1 part of bicarbonate of soda ;
then melt in a graphite crucible. When the
mass is thoroughly molten, pour in a mould,
conical if procurable. Cool off, detach the
button of gold, break the slag and collect
any prills of gold. Remelt with a little
borax glass and pour into a mould. When the
gold has set, quench in cold water and a
clean button of gold will be obtained.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J. R. deC.: See ‘“Wild Cat’ Monthly”
for January. Very little share capital left; but it
may be recovered. Policy-holders thus far well pro-
tected; bonus prospects p00r.... Enquirer (New-
castle) : A thoroughgoing gamble. Marketing is the
unsolved problem... .1.G.: Unless it has some feature
which specially meets your needs, n 0... .G.F.: On
July 29 a correspondent was told that when he
applies for £1 share's he is liable to pay £1;
the question of “advisability” of continuing payments
doesn’t come in. That answered your question, too.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Why Not a Savings Bank Lottery?
Dear Bulletin, —While there doesn’t seem
to be the faintest chance of the N.S.W. State
Savings Bank being able to pay back all
depositors’ money within the lifetime of us
middle-aged folk, yet the Commissioners will
collect various quite respectable sums from
time to time as investments mature and assets
are realised. Why shouldn’t the authorities
make this cash available, as it accrues at
intervals, by ballot of depositors ? As soon as,
say, the first million is in hand, let the
number of “prizes” be obtained approximately
by dividing this figure by the average amount
at credit, the winning numbers to be drawn
in any of the usual ways, the winners to have
the right to withdraw all or part of their bal-
ance, either forthwith or at anv subsequent
time. It’s a guinea to a gooseberry that a
good many of them would prefer to let most
of it remain in the “new business” depart-
ment of the bank. Mr. Whiddon’s outfit
should be able to deal with the actual draw-
ing at very little extra expense.—Yours etc.,
Hoyle Bootee.
Sheep Sales to Russia
Dear B., —Which is the greater menace to
Australia, the Bolshie who wears a red
buttonhole, flaps a red flag and makes wild
speeches in the parks on Sunday after-
noons, or the studbreeder who is clamoring
for the removal of the embargo on the export
of merino sheep? The Soviet wants our
sheep, and with the embargo off they’re going
to get them. The U.S.S.R. has more sheep
than any other country, 125,000,000, Aus-
tralia coming second with 102,000,000. The
average fleece-weight of the “Bed” sheep is
about 31b. and the quality poor and worse.
Fifty to sixty years ago Australia’s aver-
age wasn’t much over 31b., but perseverance
and brains evolved the finest merino in the
world, with an average fleece-weight of 81b.
If Russia is permitted to exploit our stud
flocks it will do in 10 years what it has
taken Australia nearly a century to accom-
plish and wool values will be down to 3d.
per pound. No rational Government should
permit a few greedy breeders to jeopardise
our great industry of over thirty million
pounds annually.—Yours, Valeein.
The Wrong Use of Hospitals
Dear Bulletin, —John Jones on the basic
wage, and keeping a family of four, developed
a hernia. He was placed on the hospital
waiting list and stayed there for four weeks.
Total income for that period, nil. He was
then operated upon—-another six weeks at
nil per week. When he returned to work
he was head over ears in debt, which meant
scraping and screwing to pull up to scratch
again. The bed John Jones waited for was
occupied by Tom Williams, who couldn't
afford to pay a doctor or a private hospital
because he was paying off his car, in which
his wife drove him to and from the hospital,
and also to the seaside resort he chose for
his convalescence. Nobody in the hospital
made a comment or a protest. Not even
the doctor, who performed the operation,
relying on the board’s word that they asked
his services for the needy sick. This is an
actual case and by no means an isolated one.
Many patients are admitted direct from the
casualty ward and outpatients’ department
without any or with inadequate investigation
of their right to avail themselves of the treat-
ment provided by the generosity of their
fellow citizens.
If these institutions propose to treat all
the sick of the community, let them say so.
But let them then reorganise the whole
system on a new basis, giving due con-,
sideration to all parties concerned, the sub-
scribing public, the State Treasury and the
medical profession.—Yours, Quack.
The G.S.B. Head Office
Dear Bulletin,— The N. S. Wales G.S.B.
head office is too big, and does not inspire as
a letting proposition. The State also has pro-
perty unsuitable for the purposes for which it
is.used, to wit, the Supreme Court, the top o’
King-street courts, the Darlinghurst courts
and the Water Police Court. All occupy
valuable city sites, and in normal times
would be worth a fortune each. At present
all they are used for is to give justice about
as poor, straggling and expensive a home as
it would be possible to find for it. Let the
Savings Bank Board hand its new bank pre-
mises to the State to use for a central hall
of Justice, the State passing over in ex-
change its old court premises as enumerated,
an asset which will provide security for very
considerable outside financial assistance, and
realise a great sum for the institution when
things have steadied up a bit.
Lang is a poor enough hand as Premier,
but he may know something about real
estate.—Yours, Guildmastee.
What Is Woman’s Work?
Dear Bulletin, — Having read a great deal
lately on the employment of women, I am
beginning to wonder when someone will take
up the question from the women’s point of
view. So far, the matter has mostly Deen
treated much as one discusses the best method
of drafting cattle.
“Viau” (B. 19/8/’3l) without turning a
hair_ proposes to conscript women for the
menial tasks of life, regardless of their
individual talents, intellectual standing,
education or inclination. But there is a
crack in this wonderful scheme. “Viau”
neglects to say how we are going to recon-
cile the male to, this enormous charge on his
income. I visualise a father with one son
and five daughters. If the mother is living-
two persons would be responsible for the
food, clothes and other unescapable expenses
of eight. It is possible, of coufse, that
other men might come to the rescue by marry-
ing some or all of the daughters. Or they
might not, and until that happened the soil
would be debarred from making a home of
Ins own. Incidentally, would-be suitors of
his sisters might be held back for the same
reason.
To make the scheme more possible, “Viau”
suggests that tailoring and dressmaking might
be added to the women’s duties. But why not
"?° tm lakl,l.S 1 akl,1 .S and gardening as well, to ease a
difficult situation a little more? It would,
ol course, be out of place to mention that
both tailoring and dressmaking would be
about as interesting to many women as
oakum-picking or the treadmill, and would
hardly be made more tolerable by the
absence of fixed hours or regular pay, but
would be entirely dependent on the whim or
sense of justice of a quite average male, pos-
sibly with a limited income himself.
H'ow would “Viau” like to be thrust into
a job he had not chosen, and indeed loathed,
the reward for which would be his dependence
on some female relative for a stamp or a
tram fare? Or to be obliged to use deceit
or cajolery when his pants began toTringe,
before he could hope for a new pair? If it
is true that the best wealth of a nation is
its men and women, woifd it not be good
economy to use this wealth so that the full
powers of each citizen should be expressed?
The suggestion made in a former issue
of The Bulletin that the men should be
put on the land, and the women run the
city jobs is a much saner and more economic
one.-—Yours, Just a Woman.
A Start in the Country
Dear Bulletin, —There are numbers of
countrymen who, in return for assistance
with their properties, would train and allow
men the use of portion of those areas to work
or graze for themselves. I have known men
get a permit to run a few ewes on a common
and with this start make their way. Nearly
all the city work should be done by women ;
let the men sro out back, as our ancestors
did. I am f5O. and it is the only life for
me! —Yours, Countrywoman.
Are We Good Managers?
Dear B., —These reduced incomes will
require better management, or there will be
serious deterioration in our people. The
success of clinics in Australia shows that
such efforts are appreciated by the poorer
woman who is anxious to do the right thing
and doesn’t know how. Could not the clinics
be the nucleus of a system of training
centres where a simple course in wise expen-
diture of a small income would be given ?
There are domestic sections in the techni-
cal colleges, and it is certain that from them
demonstrators could be sent forth in the
cities: for the more remote places simple
pamphlets of clearly-worded directions would
suffice. Such a plan would cost practically
nothing, and would be a help to conscien-
tious women.
Among unemployed men are numbers who
could train others to mend boots, etc.. All
of this would help to' make real wages higher.
—Yours, N. S. S.
Australian Tobaccos
Dear B., —The makers of some of the new
Australian tobaccos should pack them better.
One reasonably-priced Queensland line in loz.
packets opens up dry. It. sold well at first,
but it won’t be smoked unless it opens up
moist. A piece of potato
or cabbage-leaf will keep
it in good condition after
opening, but the rnakers
should deliver the goods
in as good condition as
the older brands. —Yours,
L. A. S.
Voronoff
Dear Bulletin, A
country doctor in N.S.W.
is carrying out Voronoff’s
so-called “rejuvenation”
to delay senility. Thought-
ful people in Europe have
constantly taken excep-
tion to these graftings.
By the White Australia
policy we keep our Aus-
tralian blood free from
mixture of races; is it
fair to cur country to
permit this stepping down
to a lower kingdom and
blending the sex glands
of man and beast?—l am,
etc., Austbalian-born.
Parents, Children and
State
Dear Bulleti n,—
“Family Physician’s”
letter (B. 26/8/’3l)
raises a tremendously
difficult question. I have
two children —one 14 and
one 16. Both should be
told about themselves and
the “phenomena of sex.”
But neither myself nor
my wife feel able to do
the unpleasant job. Yet
we have sought advice
from other parents, from
the family doctor, day-
and Sunday-school teach-
ers and the parson, but
not any of them or all
together have given us
the courage that is re-
quired. We sought aid
from special books, but
none of these seems to
meet the position, at least
so far as our own parti-
cular case is concerned.
Perhaps “F.P.” will
attempt the task of writ-
ing a special pamphlet or
booklet on the subject.
Everybody will, I think,
admit the desirability—
nay, the absolute neces-
sity—for telling our boys
and girls ; but how is the
problem. Can’t some of
your readers help others
of us to get to grips with
the problem by telling _us
just how they did it with
their children? This is
a sincere and urgent
SOS.—Yours, Birkrode.
Why the Communist
Scores
Dear Bulletin, —lf
ever Communism is ex-
perimented with in this
country, the greatest con-
tributing factor will be
the daily press. Every
article, every paragraph, almost every line
tells of a hopeless future. They may
possibly start off a bit cheerfully, but
long before the end the dismal dirge of
a beaten race is evident. They give no hope
for the future, no goal to strive for, only
harder and yet harder work, tighter belts,
and even then one’s troubles have just
started. The Communist knows the mob
much better; lie takes advantage of our past
foolishness and paints a picture of a brighter
dawn, a rosy future, etc., if only w r e will
follow the leader, which is he. Of course he
avoids awkward explanations, but the
masses were never of an analytical turn of
mind. If the daily papers want to help they
must face facts, but at the same time offer
the masses something after the problems
have been faced and removed. —Yours, Keg.
The Dole and Disfranchisement
Dear Bulletin, —-The man who used his
brains and worked, to-day has the pleasure
of keeping the family of his neighbor, who
started with the same opportunities and
maybe on the same job.
We are getting now that so long as the
man on the dole can keep a Government in
power which will make the next-door bloke
keep him, he reckons he is set for life or
until his children get big enough to send
home a few bob every week. And while he
has the dole and a few bob from the kids
to have a fly with the local s.p. gent., he is
as happy as the birdies in the trees. His
only worry is that the kids mav be stung in
the same way, and go on the dole, too.
There is only one way to stop'our becoming
a race of loafers, and that is to cross off the
roll all those who have been six months on
the dole. Those who pay the piper should
call the tune.—Yours faithfully, it. A. Q.
The Deadly Dole
Dear Bulletin, —The parents of a large
family, my wife and I, married 29 years,
have never had a holiday. When we were
wed we had less than £5O. I was an unskilled
laborer; my wife a domestic. I followed
various callings until the third child arrived;
then I bought a bullock-team on time-pay-
ment —incidentally, putting in 18 weeks in
hospital as the result of an accident before
I had earned one penny with it. At last
I got the team “worked out”; and next,
although several more children arrived, I was
able, largely through the thrift of my wife, to
go in for dairying. We have one of the largest
families in the State, most of them fairly
well educated —-four have professions. Yet,
while we could not get family endowment
if we tried, we see people who lived up to
every penny, who. had a “good time” and
who to-day are collecting endowment and
the dole. The suggestion I make is that,
before the dole is given, the history of the
applicant should be gone into. To-day I see
men whom I have worked alongside, who
drew more money than I because they were
stronger and heavier, who never did a thing
for the good of the country, yet who line up
for the dole as if the country was morally
bound to provide for them; and Lang, at
least, seems to agree with that view. While
I don’t like helping myself to the jam, I do
say that thousands now on the dole have had
better opportunities in life than I, yet with
my fellow-producers I have to feed them. —
Yours, Victim.
Tramway Waste
Dear Bulletin, —Why do the Sydney
tramways perpetuate the dangerous stupidity
of posting gentlemen in uniform in elevated
boxes at city intersections and other places
to shift points and play with colored lights
in a misdirected attempt to duplicate the
work that is being done in any case by a
traffic policeman? Some Maoriland systems
change the points by means of an overhead
electrical contact; on other systems the
guard or driver does it. The latter is the
rule where the Googec and Clovelly lines
diverge at Darley-road; so why not else-
where? There must be at least 60 men on
this job drawing not less than £3OO per
week or £15,600 per annum, all of which
could be saved.—Yours, Cosec.
Plant Forests
Dear B., —There are extensive areas, such
as the sandstone country surrounding Syd-
ney, which are lying waste because they are
not suitable for agriculture. A great deal
of this land would grow trees. Wherever
pines have been planted on the sandstone,
natural regeneration is taking place.
Among the thousands on the dole, there
are many who are breaking their hearts for
a chance to work. But what, can we do for
them?
There are cities where the people pay no
rates or taxes. No taxes! There is no
catch in it. They simply planted large areas
with trees, and kept the fire and insects out
while the trees grew. Now the revenue from
those forpsts pays for all municipal services.
It is in Scandinavia, where pine-trees take
80 years to reach maturity. Similar varie-
ties of pine will mature in Australia in 30
years.
We cannot afford to employ men at award
rates, or even at the basic wage, to plant
forests for us; but surely we could let the
unemployed earn their rations in cleaning
up unused Crown lands and planting them.
Supplementary to the main scheme of clean-
ing-up, planting, forming firebreaks and
roads, would be the care of the forests.
The health and morale of the people engaged
would be improved. The Government would
be getting something for the money spent
on the dole. The land would be brought into
use. As the trees grew to maturity a new
source of employment would be established.
Last, but not least, future generations would
be freed from part at least of the crushing
burden of taxation under which we stagger.
—Yours, D. La wry
ON THE NINETY-MILE BEACH.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (com. Sat.), “Yeomen of the Guard”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “Dearest Enemy”
Comedy (com. Saturday) “My Lady’s Dress”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Sydney’s Music Week which last year
had Backhaus as its spear-point, so to speak,
wended its way this year without aid from
imported virtuosos. It vvasn’t a bad effor;
for. a city whose hoi polloi are almost totally
sunk in jazz. The material principally used
in the celebration was of the sort that might
have been chosen 30 years ago—Beethoven s
Pastoral Symphony, Choral Fantasia and
A minor Quartet; a good deal of Bach;
Mendelssohn’s Violin Concerto, and a little
Wagner, Chopin, Brahms, Schumann and
Verdi —but that only goes to show that art
is long. • The French impressionists were
given a night out at the Con., as was only
right and proper, and the weirdnesses of
Faure and Chausson, put cheek-by-jowl with
those of Debussy and Ravel, made the latter
sound almost orthodox. The flood of organ
recitals produced no programme that couldn’t
have been framed when grandpa was still
a gay young spark, and that was just as
well, for the mighty Wurlitzer has shown
us what dire things may happen to an. organ
that sheds its cobwebs and forgets its , re-
spectability. Alfred Hill produced a new
Maori cantata, “Tawhaki,” which is rich in
melody and has some very effective choi’uses,
and an “Ode to Music,” which ought to be
sung by a very large choir. That leads to
the suggestion that massed choirs might be
made to play an impressive part in Music
Week. Given sufficient time for training
they might be made equal to • Handel, or
even to Bach, which would be a very good
thing for the choirs. Despite the bouquet
thrown by president Frank Hutchens to the
various committees on the score of ami-
ability and unity of purpose, there’s room
for a lot more co-operation in these, annual
demonstrations. The really musical folk of
any Australian city are in .proportion a'
very tiny band with a hard battle to. fight,
and they should get together more.
* * *
Doris Fitton’s latest Savoy i uproar < is
S. N. Behrman’s New York comedy “The'
Second Man,” a piece xvell charged with laugh ,
lines, a fair plot, and opportunities-for good
acting which were not enthusiastically ’taken.
It is swift talking stuff, for playing which the
first qualification should be a good'memory. I
Miss Fitton’s four players fell down > rather ■
badly on that. Clarence Murphy,; otherwise
capitally cast for the part of a writer johnny .-
who has learned to do without mock modesty,
forgot Behrman with great consistency. When
he remembered, he was very well. He is a
much better actor than this. Miss L itton
herself was not satisfactory as the rich widow
in love with the writer johnny. She looked
a little pathetic, and sometimes a little grim,
for that worldish lady, and was never at
home. Neville Malley, as a lovelorn bit of
stolidity, was better, and Wendy Palmer did
quite nicely in the simple part of the. cause
of the lornness.
The characters, in their places at the
corners of the squared triangle, are Mrs.
Frayne, the widow ; Clark.Stprey, the ivriter ;
Austin Lowe, the lover; Mdnica Grey. Lowe
and Monica are engaged; Storey and Mrs.
Frayne are as good as ditto. Mrs. Frayne is
rich, Storey just, a ..writer; Lowe _ is rich,
Monica without fortune—in Storey’s philo-
sophy, a perfect arrangement. Monica
causes the play’s complication by having a
spasm of love for Storey. Worked into
adolescent hysteria, she tells the others that
Storey is the father of her non-existent and
not even forthcoming child. The others think
Storey a cad when he attempts to refute the
allegation, and Lowe has a shot at him from
half a dozen paces, and misses. The act of
shooting, plus a glass of something like lime-
juice, brings on remorse, in which condition
a man will apparently believe anything for
the best. Storey then convinces Mrs. Frayne,
and the final curtain coines down on four
people firmly established in a regular Heaven
of American bliss.
Played by four Phar Laps, it would be
capital stuff. Loss of memory delayed it. so
that such action as it has vanished. Unless
they can crisp it up, it will be something this
excellent little theatre will be happy to
forget.
* ¥ *
This writer had a look at two of the new
Sydney Repertory Society’s offerings in
Grand Guignol at St. James’s Hall. Both
were admirably put over. The show'is run
by Scott Alexander, a sound producer. There
was that very nip in the. acting which the
other theatre’s players lack; it is .some-
thing that ought to be labelled, “All amateurs
please copy.” The offering had bone in it,
too. Alexander has landed, on-a good field ;
one that the grimness of-St. James’s Hall is
inclined to help. Phillip Lewis was the
best of the players seen. Previously lie had
acted in comedy, with moderate success, but
he is solid in the tough stuff. Sydney should
have a place for the fare Alexander is provid-
ing. The bill will be repeated on Saturday,
with “Rope” on September 24, then • “Nine
Till Six,” followed by shots at “Midsummer
Night” in modern dress and the OJjgraiu-
mergau Passion Play.
H- * *
The sudden withdrawal of “Cape Forlorn”
removes from the Sydney stage the only
recognisable Australian, outside the easy, and
therefore hackneyed, lean brown bush type,
that present writer has seen emerge from a
playwright's pen. Cass is easily the most
important feature of Harvey’s play. He is
not conventionally Australian, but he con-
vincingly belongs. Admirably portrayed by
Harvey Adams, he is of a rough and ready
type that flourishes freely here and, in exactly
this form, nowhere else. It is not a small
contribution towards Australian creative
effort to have pinned him down.
¥ # ¥
Betty. M. Davies’s “The Touch of Silk” has
a successor in “To-morrow’s Bread.” It is,
in its own way, a dramatic “Redhcap.” The
inhibited desire for self-expression of the
younger generation on a farm runs counter
to the aims of a dominating grandfather,
who puts the interests of the farm first. A
philosophical grandmother and a medical
student earning his university fees by doing
farm work act as chorus. The heir to the
property has literary ambitions and is
advised by his medical friend to seek direct
experience in the neighboring township,
which he does. Life will have its little joke,
however, and has no respect fox; literature.
The youth is ingeniously trapped into making
a gii'l with whom he has had a brief love
affair into a respectable mother, although he
is not the father. Thus the farm and the
grandfather win, though there is a partial
reverse when a sister goes off to the city
with the medical student. The play shows
the same sure sense of the theatre as its
predecessor. The curtains are admirable.
There are fine touches of obsexwation in the
characters and much humanity in the grand-
mother. A scene in a country hotel on a
Sunday evening where the non-intelligentsia
of the town are drinking is drawn to the life.
The piece is open to criticism as regards
some of its psychology, but it is just as
skilful as and much more alive than a round
dozen of imported plays put on by the local
repertory societies in the last twelvemonth.
The chances of an Australian play with
serious intentions finding public perform-
ance are as few as the hopes of an expert
economist’s recommendations being put into
operation by a body of politicians. "To-
morrow’s Bread” had to be satis,hed with a
reading at the Playhouse by Ruth Conni-
berie, D. F. Gerrity, Catherine Neill, George
Cockerill, Leslie Williams, Helen Skipper
and Frank Crago. A large audience washed
the proceedings down with beer.
* * #
Caiims Memorial Dramatic . Society nut
on for two nights at its hall in East Mel-
bourne that blithely-moving farce “It Pays
to Advertise.” Even acting of the princi-
pals put the piece over commendably.
¥ * *
■ “The Belle of New York” was revived for
three nights at Brisbane Majesty’s, with
leading lady Lilian Crisp on the sick list
and Miriam Lester in her place. A good, cast
and a good show. “The New Moon” followed.
# * *
Music is getting a chance again in Adel-
aide theatres. The Royal orchestra, is now
just; three specialists ; Carlien . Jurs, piano;
Lombardi, violin, and Kugelberg, ’cello. And
Jack Fewster’s band is playing for the “pic-
tures” at West’s. : ;
# * *
Theatrical changes in Sydney, are .sudden.
“Gape Forlorn” has, had something like a,
recqrd short run at i the Criterion,, but-
arrangements had been made for Harvey to
do his star turn in “My-i Lady’s.'Dress’’ in;
Melbourne. The suddpn flop of revuejat- the
St. James is followed •by the equally, sudden,
removal of the same lineof ■ fare fyom, the
Opera House, where vaudeville,' with ven-;
triloquist Prince and, copiedian Clegi Dawe ;
in the leading places, begins on the 19th. The,
order is vice verm at the: Royal,- where Jim'
Gerald's revue has followed thevaudeville
PATRICIA MINCHIN, with Leonard
Stephens and co. af Sydncy Palaee.
outbreak. On Saturday Leonard Stephens
will give “When Knights Were Bold” an
innings at the Palace.
“L.H.P.”: Andrew Mack, who has gone
west; at 65, visited Australia twice under the
Williamsons, in 1905 and 1907. He appeared
in “Tom Moore,” “The Way to Kenmare”
and other Irish plays. His real name was
Andrew Me A loon, and he was born at Bos-
ton. He popularised the song “Annie
Rooney” in a piece called “Aunt Bridget.”
Mack’s last appearance was as Sir Lucius
O’Trigger in an all-star cast of “The Rivals”
in New York last year.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The troubles of Barbara
Hoffe are continuing in England, where she
is suing London producer Gordon Harbord
for having, put her out of the cast of “The
Command to Love.” She came to Australia
to play in “Rain,” and opened in Melbourne;
but three days was enough. It was one of
the most sensational crashes of recent years.
“Gauboy”: Long and sometimes bitter ex-
perience of the intellectual drama has brought
me to the conclusion that much of it is
merely “Up in Mabel’s Room” in a dress-
suit, and that the semi-intellectuals who pro-
fess to enjoy it do so for largely snobbish
reasons. Take Molnar’s “The Play’s the
Thing,” staged by Gregan McMahon at Mel-
bourne Comedy. It is a dull, badly-written,
tinpot and long-winded farce-comedy written
round the idea of a young man hearing a sug-
gestive conversation between his fiancee and
a former lover in her bedroom. Subsequently
the pair are able to trick the young man
into believing that their conversation was
quite innocent. The play has no justification
in psychology for its expensive setting or
its tedious three acts. Compare a five-
minute sketch by Mo. Mo meets a
friend who says he is going out for
the evening with a girl. Mo expresses
a desire to accompany him and laments
the fact that he has no girl. The
friend says that is easily arranged.
He' knows of a - married woman who will-
go out with any man. He doesn’t know her
name—only her telephone number. He goes
to the ’phone and asks for Mo’s number.
Curtain. Mb’s idea of art may be vulgar
but Molnar’s is worse —it is vulgar and
pretentious.
The Palette.
Sydney Technical College has suitably
celebrated an event and admirably advertised
itself by producing the brochure “The Work
of Eileen McGrath.” Miss McGrath, born
at Parramatta in September, 1907, has had
a brilliant career at the college, and the event
now celebrated is her winning, in March, the
first diploma in Art the Tech, has awarded.
It was awarded for sculpture,,in which Miss
McGrath has done a striking amount of most
promising, and most honest work. Her bold
modelling is her best; her “Tamburlaine” is
particularly vigorous. In it, and .iothgr
things capitally illustrated in the bro-
chure, she reveals not only the sense
but the courage of the artist. The
contributors include Norman Lindsay, J.
McDonald, B. J. Waterhouse, Professor Wil-
kinson and W. Bede Dailey. Otherwise it is
a college community piece of work; designing
and editing by Miss McGrath’s teacher G.
Raynor Hoff, producing by E. 11. Shea; head
teacher of letterpress printing, decoration by
Miss McGrath, hand-lettering by Elsa Tyler,
student, and printing by letterpress students.
And a very tasteful job they have all made
of it. •!
“Leslie Rees” (Lond.),: Australians repre-
sented at the Royal Academy this year. in-
clude George • Lambert, Miguel Mackinlay
(Perth), Isaac Cohen and James Quinn
(Melbourne), Kenneth Mac Queen (Queens-
ANNE, GORDON, also' in the latest
attempt tot keep the doors of Sydney
Palace open.
land) and, Will- Ashton," who shows two of
his Mt. Kosciusko ,pieces. Lambert is_ repre-
sented by a mixed bag of six paintings
(the limit for a living man is three), includ-
ing a large idyll called “The Sonnet,” done
oh the scale and with the monumental style
of 'a'n Old Master, hut just‘failing to;' achieve
what itS intended. More' attractive ’to ■ this
exile are four 'glimpses of Australian ! grey
and brown—hills, trees, distances, dead'logs,
horses. ‘The best among them is “The Squat-
ter’s Daughter:” James Quinn has a pink
and sparkling; portrait of'the Duchess of
York, done for the Castlemaine Art Gallery,
which is anxious to" rekhember the Duchess’s
kindness to local Diggers during the war;
and Isaac Cohen hangs two portraits from
among the aristocrats he has been paint-
ing lately. Both Quinn and Cohen have done
well here—and as a result" have grown much
too facile. Mackinlay is a painter with a
future. His “First Communion” is not up
to the standard of “Tete-d-Tete,” exhibited
last year (reproduced in February’s “Art in
Australia”), but he maintains his capacity
for structural design, firm modelling and
color that takes one back to Seurat. He is
a modern artist of the better quality. Mac-
Queen’s method in the two water-colors
exhibited is to reduce everything in a land-
scape to the simplest rhythms, a formula
which runs the danger of becoming too easy.
There are fewer Australian exhibitors than
last year, but the Lamberts ensure a higher
average quality. A large design of the
Sydney Bridge is the dominant exhibit in
the Architectural room.
Max Meldrum lectured on art amongst his
own pictures at Melbourne Athenaeum. The
ball was packed, half the audience standing.
Those who attended in the hope of hearing
the National Gallery, the Felton Bequest
and others denounced in the familiar terms
of the hustings were disappointed. What
they got from the quiet little man whom
rumor has equipped with horns and a tail
was an entirely impersonal discourse on the
evolution of art, from the Cro-Magnon man
who scratched reindeers on bone up to
Manet and Corot. As the notion held locally
about art even by eminent critics and Guide
lecturers is that it is a series of volcanic
eruptions on the part of great men who
have no artistic connection with their fore-
runners, the lecturer’s suggestion, backed by
lantern-slides, that painting showed a con-
tinuous development through the ages just
like every other one of man’s intellectual
activities was too revolutionary for imme-
diate acceptance by a largely popular audi-
ence ; nevertheless, he got a remarkably sym-
pathetic reception. It was quite otherwise
when during the week one of his pictures,
priced at 120 guineas and earmarked for
the National collection, was presented before
the Felton Bequest committee for their con-
sideration. One member, who aconired his
knowledge of art in one of our 14 Houses of
Parliament, remarked that, in his opinion, it
wasn’t worth 120 pennies.
More interest was shown in Meldrum’s
exhibition than in any previous exhibition
for years past. One small picture, by =no
means representative, was chosen by the
Felton Bequest. Sales to the nublic were
brisk, considering the depression.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“City of Song,” a British light comedy
with musical effects, at the State, is in a
number of respects the best talkie Sydney
has seen. The story isn’t elaborate or excit-
ing, but it is from life; the acting is beyond
praise; the shots round Naples and in Lon-
don are highly decorative, and the record
ing by the new Klang-Tobis system is a
revelation. Betty Stockfield, as a fashion-
able London girl, engages a Neapolitan guide
(played by .Tan Kiepura), and becomes in-
fatuated with his voice. He is a romantic-
figure against backgrounds like Pompeii and
Capri. However, when her friend, Hugh
Wakefield, a London, nian-about-town, arrives
she dismisses Jan for the day—he doesn’t
blend with the Wakefield background—and
when she,brings him to London to give him
musical fame trouble starts. He has domi-
nated the, girls of his village, but immedi-
ately he 'tries to dominate her she sends him
back to .Naples. There ,is a sub-plot which
concerns the love of a Neapolitan girl for
him, so his return is a blessing all round.
The clever, modernistic dialogue is supremely
well handled by Miss Stockfield and Hugh
Wakefield, a brilliant comedian with a
delightful part. Jan Kiepura’s singing is
a feature of the show, and he represents an
Italian as well as can be’ expected in view
of his Teuton accent. Here, at last, is a
British production that, doesn’t derive from
anywhere but England, and • that ■couldn’t
be matched as a picture of modern-manners
in ; America or Europe.
* * .
“Skippy,” at Sydney Lyceum, is limited
by its subject. A-'movie about small boys
can only show them doing what boys have
done in other movies, so “Skippy” turns out
to be a twice-told tale. The children argue,
fight, say; their prayers, play with dogs, have
accidents and meet with sorrows which they
try to surmount on pathetic and absurd lines.
Their acting is splendid. Robert Coogan
has hardly learned to talk; he struggles with
his words as if he had a plum in his mouth.
Jackie Cooper has the, face of an Irish
comedian, a resonant voice and tne upright,
confident carriage of a man. Jackie Searl
is the sneak he was in “Tom Sawyer,” and
Mitzi Green is a hoyden who forces herself
on the boys. They register every childish
emotion —rage, grief, fear, pain, amusement
and so on—with, such art that they don't
seem to be acting. The stage never turned
out one notable child-actor, much less batches
of them as the talkies are doing, and Holly
wood has no monopoly in this respect. There
is; a boy in “City of Song” who equals any-
one in “Skippy.” So the directors are respon-
sible. _ It.is.a disturbing thought. How many
adult screen stars are robots, motivated i
people of intelligence in the background?
j “Alibi/’ also fat. the Lyceum, is the second
good British; crime-play the writer has seen
of. late, the other being “The Speckled Band.”
It begins-with;the murder of the lady whom
elderly,: wealthy; ; Roger Ackroyd has loved
for years. Ackroyd follows her. The audi-
ence knows that a blackmailer has killed the
woman and Ackroyd to save himself from
exposure. Who is,the blackmailer? Austin
Trevor, as J’oirot. the French detective,
sheets the crime home under the handicap of
some familiar: funny business by a Scotland
Yard official and, an aristocratic ass. A weak-
ness of many good British pictures, apart
from their slow tempo, : is, that they; are as
unoriginal as bad Yankee pictures. In
“Alibi” the devices for making the audience
suspect the wrong people .have been used
before, and they were never very subtle. Still
this is a workmanlike production; artistically
and mechanically,. ••,
* V ¥ / 1
“The Black Camel”' (Fox), at Sydney
Regent, features Warner Gland in his stereo-
typed part of an Oriental Holmes. The key
to the title is given in one of' the first of his
aphorisms: “Heath is the Black Camel that
kneels in front of unsuspecting houses.” It
is Dorothy Revier, movie actress on location
at Honolulu, whom the Camel visits. Sus-
picion is cast on a dozen characters in turn,
as in all Chan mystery plays, and, after
much Asiatic wit and wisdom has been
drawled suavely through the nose by the
Master, the offender is indicated. Chan per-
forms miracles of accurate deduction, even
rejecting a confession of guilt as being in
conflict with his reasonings, but that kind
of thing is half the fun of this kind of enter-
tainment. The Honolulu scenes might be
travel-gazette pictures. The cast is up to
the high Fox standard. Murray Ivinnell
appealed to this critic as a rather different
beachcomber.
M.-G.-M.’s “Five and Ten,” based on Fanny
Hurst’s best-seller, follows. The name _is
that of the stores owned by the millionaire
father of Marion Davies. The moral of this
yarn is-“Be rich and you’ll be unhappy —
up to a point.” The reaching of the point
is usually signalised in such films by a family
trip to Paris, and that happens in this one.
The heroine’s mother is so sick of her money-
mad husband’s neglect that she nearly runs
away with a fortune-hunter. The son of the
house, bored to dissoluteness, suicides in a
’plane—a sensational bit of realism. Miss
Davies has to stand in the congregation, with
streaming eyes, looking on at the marriage of
the man she loves. But it all comes right in
the end. The main interest of the picture
is the fight put up by the heroine for Leslie
Howard. He is what the French cal lVhommc
fatal, so far as she is concerned. She resists
him up to a point, but the moment his prac-
tised grip ■ closes on her, and his lips find
hers, she becomes like wax. His fascination
is great—he mentions that no woman can
resist him—but the secret of it is obscure.
He has the marcelled comeliness of a high-
class shop-walker, and a nice voice and
enunciation, but his face, figure and even
walk are wooden, and he can’t laugh. He
only tries once, and the result is awful. He
and Miss Davies have a number of scenes
together—in her bedroom with his fiancee
listening outside, in gardens, on top of a sky-
scraper where they get locked in for the
night—and the same thing happens in ad ;
ho grabs her with a kind of experimental pur-
posefulness, she shoots an impassioned arm
round his nock, and the embrace is on. They
do it so often that relief is felt when the last
scene discloses them separated by the space
between a departing liner and the whan.
There are no weak performers, but the sound
is bad.


'Evidence in
BI\(K'VVI|1II
f rwEOto 1
BLACK
AND
WHITE
BUCHANA**
glasoow
U LON DON
m
m
m
.
ii«
msm mmm
/
•.: .
App 9
.M the YA
; ' ■ |.» r^:. v ' : ' ! ''
, py|
if '
Ml
P'
M
■
w
OK SCOTUNS
SCOTCH WHISKY
: ■ ..._ t»
?<WM, **»*
SKeCIAU BUENO OF
Scotch whisky distillers
GLASGOW LONDON
distioery, wwswf fV(!AI
contents joint ©fluid ox
The first appreciative sip
tells you that here indeed
is "a special blend ol
choice old Scotch Whisky ”
and the case for Black
& White is complete.
Bottled under Supervision oj the Commonwealth Customs


T cannot sing of home, sweet home,
My poor old throat won’t do it;
I tried a stave or two last night—
To-day I vather rile it.
But Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure I know
Will cure me by to-morrow,
And I shall sing of home, sweet home
Without a trace of sorrow.— Advt.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1873.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. ltyan, Esq. i
V. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMRN.
„ HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
blanches m Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and -the World, this
Hank otters the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ď
Now in its 90th Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
PULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. It. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
, Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
O MEET THE TIMES
L>
U
riental —
Melbourne's Premier Hate!
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER. Manager.
ABORICINALITIES
“Honi Soit”: To become a patrol officer
in the Papuan service, and eventually obtain
a resident magistrateship, was at one time
delightfully simple. AH that was necessary
was to be on hand at Port Moresby when
a vacancy occurred, satisfy the G.M.G. as
to one’s health, and be sufficiently conver-
sant with the “three R’s” to make out a
report. Because the method of joining the
service was so easy it opened the way to
plumbers, carpenters, supercargoes and
ships’ stewards in Moresby, their only guide
and training being the Papuan blue-book on
native law and ordinance. Fame came to the
R.M. who had his Christmas turkey stolen. A
suspect was brought to the Residency. There
was nothing, of the judicial frame of mind
about the magistrate. “Just you wait, you
thieving cow,” he roared. “Just you wait
until I get on the bench. I’ll give you six
darning months!”
* * * *
“Rainbow”: Queensland is going to have
another try at acclimatising trout on the
northern tablelands as an extra attraction
for the many tourists who flock during the
Australian winter to Cairns and its hinter-
land. Conditions are ideal, for the climate is
suitable and the numerous streams well
suited to the sporting fish. A hatchery is to
be installed at Lake Barrine, behind Cairns,
and this is to be stocked by a consignment of
fry from Ballarat. Years ago, the people of
Herberton, also on the tablelands, made an
effort to establish trout in local waters, but
enthusiasm fizzled out.
* * * *
“Uramao” : There is a knowing old cow in
Stratford (M L.). Adjoining her paddock is
a fowlrun with an > opening into the cow’s
domain. While Pansy has no objection to
their presence during the day she deems it
only right that fowls should be at roost at
sundown. When the shadows lengthen the cow
rounds the chooks up and drives them
towards the opening in the fence. Should
one try to break rank —usually the delin-
quent is a rooster —she heads it off and
does not return to the chewing of her cud
till all have passed through the opening into
the fowl house.
# ❖ Sfc
“Wcrrimee” : Rivalry between teamsters and
motorists is bitter on inland roads. A shire
engineer in the Narrabri district (N.S.W.) has
accused the old brigade of deliberately dam-
aging the roads “to eliminate or handicap the
competitive motor
traffic.” In the good
old days, when. Bill
of the long whip was
king of the highway,
there was a friendly
competition between
him and his fellows
for the honor of
carrying the record
load. The mountains
of wool and wheat
that they piled up on
their waggons cut
gutters in the roads.
But the roads were
always bad then—-
heavy with sand and
boggy with mud, for
nobody worried about
the troubles of Bill.
They are kept in
good trim for the
newcomer—he can’t
pass otherwise; and
that is a grievance
that Bill has nursed
ever since the chug-
ging rival whizzed in
to take his job.
Another grievance is
that numerous way-
side shanties that en-
livened the way when
teams were many
have disappeared, for
the motorist made
one stage where Bill
made 20. William
sees his favorite
highway ruined. He
can’t always get a
load when squatters
want to rush their
wool to market, and
when he does he piles
on as much as he
can. Then the motor-
ist accuses him of
purposely making
ruts, and zigzagging
about to spoil the
speedway. So when
Bill finds his rival
hopelessly stuck and appealing for bullock
help he passes by with a lordly air.
“Harold Hardupp”: The yarn the dead-
beat had tried to tell the magistrate inter-
ested me, and I found a chance for hearing
it afterwards. “Yairs, it was me pet fly
that was the cause of me trouble,” he said.
“The faithfullest pet I ever ’ad was
that fly—’Erbert, I called ’im. I first met
’Erbert when ’e fell inter a glass er whisky.
‘ ’Ere, don’t use that,’ I says ter the bloke
’oo was tryin’ ter get ’im out with a scoop.
THE YOUNG IDEA.
MA COHEN: "You pui that fire oul this minute, Ikey, before you burn the house down."
PA COHEN: "Leave the boy alone, Rebecca. D'yer vant to totally destroy hid pees-ness instincts?."
‘Yer might ’urt the pore feller! Let me.’
An’ I puts in me finger an’ lifts ’im out
gentle. ‘ ’Ere! ’Oo th’ ’ell’s goin’ ter drink
that whisky now?’ yells the bloke. I tole
’im that if it come ter that I would; an’
I did. Fer er moment 1 thort the bloke was
goin’ ter stoush me, but the blokes with ’im
laughed, an’ instead of er knock I got more
drinks outer it. AVhen I woke up in the
park there was ’Erbert buzzin’ round me
showin’ ’is gratitood. ’E ’ad fluttered arter
me some’ow, drunken-like, an’ went ter sleep
be’ind me ear. Although ’e tickled me I
let ’im stop, knowin’ what it feels like fer
a bloke to be woke up when ’e’s slbepin’ it
orf. Arter that ’Erbert went with me every-
where; you never saw a faithfuller pet.
Knowin’ ’ow ’ard it is fer a bloke like me
ter get beer, ’e always drank outer other
blokes’ glasses, or went surf-bathin’ in other
blokes’ mugs; an’ one way an’ another that
there faithful fly won me a lotter beer. ’Ow
it’ appened—l’m talkin’ erbout ther tradergy
- —was this: They’d called a cop to put me
outer er pub where I’d got inter a row. I
woulder gorn out quiet meself, but ’Erbert,
seein’ the John ’Op grabbin’ me, flew right
in the cow’s face —like the faithful little
fly ’e was. The John makes, er swipe at
’im, but ’Erbert dodges an’ comes back ergain
—game as a bulldorg-ant! Wot could a
bloke do? There was me game little cobber
puttin’ up a fight fer me, an’ there was the
big ’ulking cop swipin’ at ’im. I swung
one at the John in defence of me cobber.
An’ that’s jest where the tradergy occurred.
Pore little ’Erbert, goin’ in ergain, got right
in the way of me swipe, an’ was flattened
out right under the John ’Op’s heye! Me
pore little cobber, ’Erbert!”
“Tuan Tu” : In the drawing of the N. S.
Wales State lottery 100,000 numbered
marbles are placed in a barrel, which is
rapidly rotated before the winning numbers
are picked out. Before the first drawing-
fears were expressed by imaginative persons
that the marbles with the least numbers on
them, being heavier than the others because
they had less material engraved out of them,
would sink to the bottom and thus would
not have a fair chance. The drawing, how-
ever, showed that these fears were not justi-
fied. I have been working the thing out in
camp. There were 812 prizes and'loo.ooo
tickets. The arithmetical odds against any
of the nine one-figure marbles winning were
135 to 1 against, and none of them did win.
Against the 90 two-figure marbles the odds
were 4 to 3 against, but one won. The 900
three-figure marbles had a chance of 7.3 to 1
on, and seven won. The 9000 four-figure
marbles had a 73-to-l-on chance, and 82 won.
The great majority of the marbles —the
90,000 five-figure ones —which, according to
the weight-of-engraving theory, should have
had a disproportionately good chance, fell
below their proper quota; 731 of them should
have won, but only 722 were drawn. The
disparity, however, is trifling, and the draw,
taken ail round, is a triumph for the Law of
Averages.
“P.X.”: Three years ago the motor-truck
seemed to have knocked the camel out for
good, and hundreds of the bad-tempered
brutes were turned adrift; they became such
a nuisance in one section of the N.T. that a
hunt was organised to wipe off some of the
gone-wild surplus. But a couple of good
seasons have filled the whole 'country with
feed (all except one still bone-dry tract of
Northern Queensland), and rains, have made
things hard for the trucks ; so between one
thing and the other the camel has come
back again. He costs so little to buy (if
he has to be bought) and nothing to feed
and so little to equip that contracts have
been taken by his owners down to sd. per
ton per mile. The old bullock-waggon basic-
rate was a bob. The camel is still rarely
put on. draught work; yet, when some heavy
boiler and other carrying had to be done
lately from the old Pinnacles mine (Barrier
Ranges), camel teams were hitched on to
the waggons.
“Katiti”: “Runa” (B. l/7/’3l) follows
fashion in suggesting that the fair-headed
Maoris were half-castes, but this is a very
superficial explanation. Maoris have main-
tained from the earliest recorded times that
there were fair-headed natives in M.L. before
the whites arrived. James Cowan says in
his book, “The Maori,” “In 1772 Crozet,
the French navigator, noted this and other
Caucasic characteristics of the race, say-
ing, ‘Their color is, generally speaking,
like that of the people of southern Europe.
Some of the men were as white as the French
sailors, and there was a girl of 15 as white
as our French women.’ ” He also saw
several people with- red hair.
ORACLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There’s lots of chaps will soundly rate each-
other’s ignorance,” said Joe,
“On pretty nearly everything in Ileav’n
above or earth below.
I’ve heard some red-hot arguments in pubs,
and round the fire o’ nights,
That broke the firmest friendships up and
very often closed with fights.
The point at issue seldom seemed worth all
the sound and fury—still
The sort of bloke that’s positive won’t be
convinced against his will.
“Some chaps,” said Joe, “lay down the law
on politics until they’re hot:
To even doubt their view is right shows
you’re a blinkin’ idiot.
I’ve heard the fiercest wrangles rage ’mong
disputants with passion torn
On who was first at Charters Towers or
how the kangaroo is born;
And fifty other things that move the listeners
to stamp and shout,
And take one side or other on, and bellow
themselves hoarse about.
“We’re told that there’s something left to
say upon most questions,” ventured Joe,
“And tfiat the wisest man may make a bloomer
sometimes. I dunno.
The hardest cases I recall were always ready
to condemn
The bare idea that anyone knew anything
exceptin’ them.
To question their conclusions would merely
stamp you, as a rule,
For an unmitigated crook or just a pitiable
fool.
THE IDOLATER.
“Fancy her puttin’ up a graven image on his grave! And
i'm good chapelgoer and all!”
“I’ve heard Sir Oracles,” said Joe, “who
never lacked conviction strong
That they were right and ev’ryone who dis-
agreed with them was wrong.
They weren’t all soapbox orators, take it
from me, or working folks.
For sheer cocksnrehess, anyhow, I’ll back
these scientific blokes
Who take a nigger’s skull in hand, one half,
when finished the survey,
To date it back a million years—the other
half to yesterday!”
N.S.W.
PIPAEDS.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
The Stanaartt cJ Quality throughout tho £mp/>s,
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & 00., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
SERVICE
The establishment of a Bank does not in itself establish a Banking
Service. It provides only the machinery which is to be operated by
man for the service of man. The human factor is the vital spark
that gives life to a mere aggregation of buildings, books and currency,
and makes of them a friendly, helpful service for the convenience of
the people.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank extends its facilities throughout
the length and breadth of Australia, through Branches and Post-office
Agencies, and trained officers translate those facilities into understand-
ing human service to the thrifty.
fatnonwealtb Savings JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
“Mauri”: The natives of the west coast
of New Ireland are original in their methods
of capturing sharks. The fishermen go out
into the bays in frail canoes, each equipped
with a large rattler of shells and a slender
pole, to which is attached a dead fish and a
piece of heavy wood shaped like an aeroplane
propeller. Through a hole in the centre of
this latter instrument is threaded a slip-
knotted loop of plaited cane, which hangs
suspended in the water below the propeller.
The knot on the upper side is held bv an
assistant. The rattle is shaken in the water
and the sharks are attracted. Each canoe
crew selects a victim, and with the aid of the
fish and pole the shark is enticed through
the loop of cane. As soon as he is partly
A PROFESSIONAL FAILING.
PARSON (who has accidentally jostled the lady): “Madam, I bey” —
LADY (sharply): “Yes, I know —you all do.”
through the assistant tugs at the loop, which
tightens just above the tail. The victim
dives, hut the whirling vanes of the propeller
impede his progress, and he is repeatedly
drawn up by the apparatus. When exhausted
lie is speared and towed ashore. With the
advent of tinned meat and salmon, shark-
fishing by these methods is being neglected,
but there was a time when Chinese traders
found it profitable to bargain for the fins,
which were dried and shipped home.
“Mundowie”: In
many parts of the
country bees have
been disappearing in
swarms, and the
Council for Scienti-
fic and Industrial Re-
search is looking into
the matter. , In the
Narrabri district
(N.S.W.) there is
some proof that the
dis a p p earance is
another black mark
to tire debit of the
rabbit - poisoner.
Burnt or otherwise
faulty raspberry jam
is specially canned
for rabbiters, who
mix it with strych-
nine and spread it on
bits of bark along
the box-tree ridges.
In winter, when
there is not much
food about, the bees
swoop on to the jam,
then go straight for
water, where they die
in thousands. Farm-
ers find them thick
in the horse troughs.
The little stingless
natives bees, once
numerous in that
part, have gone, with
the result, that the
plains grasses, which
they fertilised, are
doing the disappear-
ing trick too. Add
this damage to the
destruction of insec-
tivorous birds, and one wonders how much
longer the indiscriminate broadcasting of
poison about the country is to be allowed.
“Taltingan”: One of the ancient institu-
lions of Broken Hill is undergoing a great
change. After Charley Rasp, the boundary-
rider, had pegged out the big ironstone out-
crop, the syndicate decided that it would
want a dam and some country from which
it could cut timber for fuel and props; so
it pegged out and later on fenced in what
has always since been the Dam Paddock.
It wasn’t long before the mine was import-
ing half a million’s worth of timber in six
months. But if the mulga soon disappeared,
the dam stayed; and for just on 50 years it
has never been quite respectable to have a
bare-knucltle fight in Broken Hill except
behind its high banks—the last took place
on a recent early morning, in tne presence of
a mysterious crowd of 500 people. But the
old wonder-mine is now in the hands of care-
takers ; there is no call for the water behind
these big earthen walls, and there is always
a danger that some day something exlra in
the way of a storm may burst them, which
would be very uncomfortable for a few thou-
sand people living round about—-for modern
Broken Hill completely surrounds the Dam
JUST PLAIN DRUNK.
“Good heavens, Mary, is master intoxicated?”
“No fear, Missus! Him bin too drunk for that.”
Paddock. So a ram was set to work and a
hole punched low down in the clay belt that
holds in the water, and a pipe has been intro-
duced, and slowly the contents of the old
reservoir are being drained away.
“C.P.A.”: “Pick’s” par. (B. 12/8/’3l)
detailing how the waters of Lake George
(N.S.W.) have reached their high-water
mark for the first time in half a century and
covered three miles of a concrete highway,
constructed at a cost of £26,000' a mile, that
skirts the northern edge of the lake, forcing
travellers to take the old road to Canberra,
is perfectly correct save for the following
minor inaccuracies: (1) The lake has many
times in the last 50 years been higher than
it has been this year. (2) There is not
a cupful of water on the highway that skirts
the lake. (3) This road is not made of
concrete. (4) It did not cost £26,000 per
mile or anything like it. (5) Travellers are
not being forced to take the old road.
“ ’Possum" : Anticipating the declaring of
an open season for ’possums, a team of
Sydney sports, temporarily unemployed, har-
vested a couple of dozen skins. When the
permits were granted it was found that every
skin presented at the police station must have
the left hind-paw attaching. As these had been
cut away their harvest was a total loss. In a
subsequent collection they preserved the paws
and the skins were piled for removal. Bush,
rats gnawed the paws off. A brainwave to
one of the party conveyed that the rat muti-
lation might be used to advantage. They
took all the skins to the police station and
handed them over with the explanation that
the paws had been eaten off. The sergeant
appeared impressed with the excuse. “That’s
the best I’ve had this season," lie said. “But
it’s not going to get you anywhere. You’re
lucky that I don’t enter a charge against
you for shooting opossums without a permit.
I’ll confiscate the skins instead.” And lie
did.
He He *
“ J.D.”: Let me add to the sacred trees of
Australia (B. 12/8/’3l) one that was held
in reverence by the northern coastal blacks
Cor fully a generation. This was “Stuart’s
Tree,” near which the explorer J. McD.
Stuart erected the flagpole on which he dis-
played the national colors to proclaim British
ownership of the land on the shores of the
Indian Ocean. Stuart had made two unsuc-
cessful attempts to cross the continent before
lie reached his objective on July 24, 1862.
The flagpole did not stand up to the wind
and white ants, and the exact locality was a
matter of dispute among explorers. In 1885
Gilbert McMinn, in charge of the Survey
Department at Palmerston, following a com-
munication from a wandering band of blacks,
led a party to search for the tree. Natives
domiciled in the area knew all about it and
conveyed that it was tabu, as the white man
had made sacred marks on it. Taking bear-
ings from the records in Stuart’s diary,
McMinn located the tree, a line leconia.
Deeply carved in the bark in letters about
two feet long were the initials “J.McD.S.”
Souveniring white hands gradually brought
about the death of this historic landmark.
* * * *
“Mulga Mick": The description by Fred
Blakeley, leader of a recent expedition in Ceu-
tralia, of the "prenty,'' as a "fierce and gigan-
tic lizard, whose roar mingles the bark of
the dog with the growl of the lion," is not
quite accurate. While prospecting east of
Charlotte Waters I caught a prenty alive
and partly tamed it. I had to stun it with
a waddy before I could release it from the
snare in which it was trapped. I kept it on
a dog-cliain for about six weeks and fed it
mostly on kangaroo and pigweed. It had the
head of a crocodile and a body like a goanna’s.
except that the front legs were a lot longer.
It was about sft. in length. I wanted to get
it down to Adelaide alive, but made the
mistake of tying it on the pack of one of
my quietest camels. When the prenty started
to struggle the camel developed surprising
agility and broke for the bush. It was a
couple of days before I caught the runaway,
and in the meantime my prenty had eaten
through the greenhide fastenings and got
away with the dog-chain. The creature is.
a land crocodile, confined mostly to the Lake
Eyre district. Presumably when the watfers
of that inland sea dried up it adapted itself
to land conditions. It has neither the bark
of a dog nor the growl of a lion, but makes
a noise something between a bull and a
mating crocodile.
“Harold Hardupp”: There is a spirit of
independence, scornful of both dole and old-
age pension, in a man who has made him-
self a quaint habitation at Upper Sherwood
Crock, on the North Coast ‘-(N.S.W.). A
hollow log, fallen on its side, is his home.
It is 30 feet long, and has an’ internal
diameter of six feet. One end is divided
off into living-room and bedroom, fitted
with table, seats and bunk, and shelves
for books; the other end provides shelter
for livestock. The contented owner, who is
OS, makes a living by trapping and an
occasional job for near-by settlers. The
postal address is The Log, Upper Sherwood
Creek.
“Murrungurry”: I have often heard
people remark when tussling with tough
steak that it must have been part of an
old working bullock. Even stockmen have
the idea that Strawberry and Rattler get
tough with years of hard work. But a
shrewd Queensland squatter considers them
the best for the butcher. He buys and fat-
tens all the old working bullocks he can
get, and they make prime beef; they eat.
drink and sleep anywhere at their ease, while
younger cattle fret and waste their fat in
running about. And the old stager holds his
condition longer in bad times. For one
thing, he has learnt to use his horns for tear-
ing down branches of trees. In a sheep
paddock in a lean season he breaks scrub
for the woollies as well as for himself.
THE SAYING GRACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It’s pretty hard to judge a bloke,’’ the old
man said, “by what you hear;
Some folks’ ideas of right an’ wrong, to say
the least, are rather queer.
A decent overcoat will hide a suit that’s worn
and out of date.
An’ one good quality will wipe a lot of
crookness off the slate.
“Just take the ease of Long Bill Jones, who
had a farm on Emu Creek.
The d.t.’s finished him at last —they buried
him the other week.
Me wasn’t quite the sort of chap among your
cobbers you’d include;
lie used his missus cruel hard, his children
often lacked for food.
“The farm was never prop’ly worked, and
over-run with pear and burr.
He owned perhaps two hundred sheep, a
ragged-looking lot they were,
And yet his clip was fairly large, although
of that he’d never boast.
For Long Bill’s motto always was, ‘Who
shears the first, he shears the most.’
“'Twas common knowledge that he’d seldom
miss a chance to lie and cheat;
Still, if you were to ramble round and ask
(lie fellows that you meet,
From most of ’em I’m game to bet this is
the answer you’d evoke:
‘Bill had his faults, but, I dunno, he wasn’t
such a mangy bloke.’
“An’ why? Well, just because if you were
with him on an evening out,
You always knew that Long Bill .Tones
would never try to dodge his shout.
He might ha’ been the kind of cove that
all right-thinking people spurn,
But when it came to buying drinks he
always parted in his turn.”
VICTORIA.
EIIENVALE.


Most Modern Hotel
The hotel Alexander
122-132 SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE <o PP . Railway station)
200 Rooms 200 Baths 4
TARIFF PER DAY:
Room and Meats 25 /'
Room and Breakfast 15/-
Telephone: F 4141 (10 lines)
One of the Richardson Chain of Residential Hotels
m
4
>; .
'Kf '3 is ;? 3
*3
■
■>- ? '• •
m
t^w
33 ,**|
!!■'■;„ 1.1,13 3 ill II!?' t: 3
, gai l iiasnM» «®
<M ' C '
m
.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COI.LINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund .. . • • • - • 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout trie
world. T , ,
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usua
banking business transacted.
If .any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who wi
quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
PROVERBIAL.
“Mr. Lang- stated that although the G. S. Bank
had closed it was still sound.” — “Argus.”
Although its funds have done a, flit,
Lang’s claim is right. It has been found
That, when a vessel’s empty it
Is all, as one might, put, it, sound.
“The new fashion in frocks requires womanly
curves to set them off.”
So long as it's a new fashion, we can be
sure our girls will plump for it.
* *
“Full-fashioned silk hose has come down from
Bs. lid. to 3s. lid.”
Sad that hosiery should be coming down
just as Australia is being called on to pull
up its socks.
* *
IN THE GARDEN.
Coining plants: These require very careful
handling and thrive best in shady spots. They
fade right away if they are allowed to get
spotted.
Stocks: Exercise great care in watering.
We have had many instances this season
of disasters due to excessive energy in the
above direction.
Rum-blossoms (Bundabergus rumbustus):
A great mid-winter bloomer. Many of the
potted varieties are displaying a rare blend-
ing of colors at present. Don’t stake these
plants on any account.
Priming is now in full swing. Probably
your boss will attend to yours.
D. McM.
* *
Girls say the new dresses suit them right
down to the ground.
» *
Opportunity hasn’t much chance of knock-
ing on N.S.W.’s door under present condi-
tions. The wolf won’t let it.
NO BALM YET FOR THE WOUND.
DELL: “Poppy seems still terribly cut up over her husband’s death!”
NELL: “Yes, you’ve no idea how slow sune of these insurance offices are.”
“Dawn’s broke!” enthused the ’Bidgee
poet.
“ ’Ow did the poor cow come to meet Jack
Lang?” asked the poet’s mate.
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
Laban showed no enthusiasm when Jacob
walked into the pawnshop. However, he
listened patiently to the wanderer's story.
"I can’t lent monish on birthrights,” he
said firmly as the narrative ended.
“Wait a minute, uncle,” said Jacob (and
from that day to this that term of address
has persisted), “until I tell you of my dream.
I was in the desert, and I saw a ladder going
up into Heaven, and angels on it descending
and ascending. When I woke up. I was filled
with a new hope. I said : Y will go to uncle
and ask him for a loan.’ ”
“My poy!” protested Laban, his hands
waving despondently, “pizness is pad ! Dere
is no hope”
“Listen!” commanded Jacob. “I said: ‘I
will go to old Laban and get cash or a job
or—the ladder put it into my head —I’ll join
the fire brigade.’ ”
Laban blanched.
“Vat!” he shouted, horrified. “Der seed of
old Isaacs choin a. fire prigade! Berish der
thought!”
Jacob had struck the right note. Rather
than see a member of the family pursue
that hated calling, Laban took Jacob into
the shop, where he learnt the tricks of tlie
trade, married both Laban’s daughters, and
finally made that keen bargain by which lie
over-reachrd his father-in-law. After tlie fire
he took over the damaged goods—referred
to in the picturesque language of the Bible
as the “straked sheep”—and the subsequent
salvage sale laid the foundations of his
fortune.
FT. M.
“Is trades unionism a failure in N.S.W. ?
On the contrary, it’s a striking success.
X *
NEW METHOD.
“Accused, though certified drunk by the Court
doctor, protested that he had only drunk water.”
The statement of the Court M.D.
He treated as a slight,
No alcoholic case was he,
But merely water-tight.
P.
«
THE UNEXPECTED TOUCH.
“Mr. MacDonald appeared looking worried. He
reached his Car, but the chauffeur was not there
and he asked where the man was. The chauffeur
was then whistled up and Mr. MacDonald opened
the door before stepping into the car.” — Cable.
Further exclusive information goes to show
that the P.M. wore his hat on his head while
alighting and crossed the pavement from his
car by placing each foot in turn in front
of the other. It is understood that he pre-
sided over the Cabinet meeting sitting at
the head of the table in a chair, with his
legs and the lower part of his body under
the table. The meeting being held in the
early morning, electric lights were not
switched on.
Refusing to make a statement, the Pre-
mier later lit his pipe by deftly striking a
match and applying the flame to the tobacco
until it ignited.
Windsor.
WHAT THE EYE DOESN’T SEE.
“Miss yer train, sir?”
“Oh, not much—I never got to know it!”
“Mr. Lang is evolving- a scheme to provide more
work.”
As a matter of fact he has made short
work of it already.
¥ V
“Miller had to have his arm amputated and was
very glum about it.”— “Doctor’s Diary.”
Why not? When sorrows round us creep,
And gloomy days are numerous.
Our funny-hones we like to keep;
We all applaud the humerus!
H. M.
«
“The State may yet prove unable to support the
idle masses.” — “D.T.”
Meanwhile we’re living in the good dole
days.
* *
A 1991 THRILLER.
The venerable Lord Hugo de Robot, his
throttle choked with. emotion, taxied up and
down the garage in top gear. Suddenly
throwing himself
into reverse, lie
braked hard and
fac e d his com-
panion.
“Tell me,” he
screeched, through
his transmitters,
“t hat it ’ s not
true!”
The beautiful
stream-lined job in
front of him calmly
finished Per super-
re fine d No. 2
Wexaco lubricant.
“Hugo,” she
purred, “let’s be
frank. When I
married an old
model and jumble
of spare pares like
you, I was hardly,
out of the work-
shop. Dismiss all
thoughts of me
from your crank-
c a s e; Harold
Tinney is my hero
—my man !”
“S’death ! Tinney!
A cheap three-
cylinder iob with
the brand of stand-
ardised labor all
over him!”
“Yes.” ■
“My God !” With
a terrible grinding
of internal mechanisms Lord Robot crashed
to the floor —dead! He had' slipped a cog.
Me.
* *
N.S.W. is already a State lottery.
# *
“The Communists know how to take the utmost
advantage of the present industrial depression.”
—“Age.”
Being adepts at dropping the riot word in
the right place. -
* *
Money talks, but it’s not easy to “get” it.
“I -would,not- touch, you with a pole,’
She said, in a contemptuous tone;
And now her family’s on the dole
She wants to touch him for a loan.
* V
“Petitioner complained that his wife always came
home bad-tempered from the ‘ponies.’ ”
Kicked over the races, as it were.
BROWN.
I'm glad that spring is here again, for,
though I live in town, and rarely see its
splendors plain, it tends, to shut up Brown.
I don’t dispute the winter’s worth —some
winter days are mellow —but see no need to
fill the earth with boastings like that fellow.
Brown loves (lie says) to rise before the
grey of dawn is lighted and seek some rugged,
surf-swept shore with other chumps benighted.
Also to feel the shower fall; it fills his blood
with tingles, whilst his loud basso starts a
bawl that with the splashings mingles. Then
out again to face a wind that’s something
under zero. On deeds like this he talks at
length as if h'e were a hero.
The winter season, at its .worst, is his
supreme enjoyment; he rushes into it, athirst
to give each blast employment. He’d simply
loathe, he says, to sit beside a cosy fire.
The howling storm outside is IT. You’ve
no doubt met the liar.
H. M.
PUZZLING!
He gets chill words from Mary,
An icy stare from Ann,
The frozen mitt from Nellie,
And, a shoulder cold, from Nan —
And yet one hears them call him
A very hot young man.
S.
GIVING THEM ALL A SPIN.
Out in the Old Men’s Home lives one to
whom the State Lottery has brought a new
lease of life. With the blithe confidence of
20 he told a “Daily Blah” representative of
his hopes and plans for the future.
“No,” he said, “I didn’t get within five
flamin’ thousand of a ruddy ticket, but I'll
make old Whiddou
pay me somethin’
yet. I’m risin’ SO,
but I reckon I’m
good for another ten
years, and it’s agin
all the laws of chance
for a man not to get
somethin’ in that
time.”
Yes, old Dan aims
to beat the game yet.
Il'e won a fiver in a
certain Tasmanian
consultation in 1881.
and since then, he
estimates, he has had
3000 tickets in cer-
tain (and uncertain)
consultations. He has
uever won anything,
but he has never lost
faith in his luck.
Thank God for
Aussie’s pioneer
spirit!
In a little rose-
entwined cottage in
Balmain to-day all
was bustle and ex-
citement. The last
State Lottery had
changed all for the
Muggins family. Jim
Muggins, husband of
one wife and father
of 12 children, had
invested his last fiver
in a book of lottery
tickets, hardly guess-
ing when he did what a momentous change in
the family fortunes was due. The result
exceeded his wildest dreams. Not one ticket
had won a prize, and when our representa-
tive called two bailiffs were busily removing
the furniture.
No stranger example of the freakish work-
ings of Fate could be chronicled than the
case of Mrs. Jemima Hoozit and the first
prize in the last lottery. Let those who scoff
at Destiny ponder her story, as told to-day
to the “Daily Blah” :
“I was goin’ in by the ten o’clock ‘bus
Toosday to get a ticket,” she said, “and just
as I got to the gate the ole man came
’ome with the dole, and I ’ad to set to and
find a bottle-opener for ’im. So I didn’t get
in till Wenesday, and got inter the line at
eggsacly 11.16, and got me ticket at 12.80.
an’ somebody said the crowd always
moved through at the same rate, and then 1
read that the winnih’ ticket was sold on
STILL GOT UM.
"Missus lost her temper, Jacky?"
“My word, no! She still got um!”
Toosday at 12.35, and allowin’ a minit eveu.
if me ole man hadn’t been so ’elpless, mark
my words, that ticket would ’ave bin mine.
There’s Fate for yer!”
ANOUS O'CONEN..


ecte
a f
or its
St
ami na,
Quail
ity
A triumph ojgraceful lines. Note
the arched tie-bar, the higher,
more pleasing radiator contour,
the harmony of the entire design.
an
d Broad
The New
U sefulnesi
Chevrolet
READING engineers
everywhere praise CL ev-
rolet s high quality, its rug-
gedness and reliability . . .
acknowledge tbe mecbamcal
excellence of tbe chassis, tbe
smooth power of its silent
six-cylmder engine, tbe per-
fect action of tbe steering
mechanism and the positive
lour-wheel brakes.
vX 1
%
VS
71
ft
&
g
X
f» N
V—•'*■
m
lw»"
i
m>
v
i
Fhe expert judgment of notable engineers approves the design and rugged
strength of the New Chevrolet , . . its stamina, quality and usefulness.
To tke less teckmca 11-
less re com cany
minded, it s a fine car for
general utility, for business,
touring, sport ... or to push
off con fid ently on long tours
—even into the farthest out-
hack wkere roads lade out.
All admire tke fine, roomy
bodies by Holden; tli eir
beauty and impressive ap-
pearance. Likewise everyone
knows and appreciates tke
New Ckevrolet s particular
suitability for Australian
motoring needs, and its
extremely modest price.
Inspect and test tkis great
new car at tke skowrooms of
your nearest Cli evrolet dealer.
Ask kim about tke friendly
GMAC deferred payment
plan, and Ckevrolet s liberal
o wner Service Policy.
Prices start at £247 (plus
sales tax ) All models equip-
d wi tlx wire wkeels.
pe
Built by General Mo to r.v-
H olden s Limited,
Brisbane, Sydney,
jM-elbourne, Adelaide, Pertk.
DEALERS IN ALL
MAIN CENTRES
—* * J»
«HS
d


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
w.
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu<t.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
rj
■JP
s
Dependable /
Craig & Aitken
Distributor}
.Sydney N.5.W.
ď
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJ AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director- H Fell
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner EFzabeth & Bathurst Streets Sydney
a. N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
fis, Agency Co., Ltd. jss
Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LIWSEED MEAL
THE WOOL SALES.
When the wool sales opened in Sydney
last week the buyer who was the principal
operator for Japan during the past few
years was an absentee —he has gone to S.
Africa. And there is significance about that:
it shows how the competing flocks which
Australia has been so foolish as to build up
in another continent are attracting attention.
Certainly this is not the first time the Japs
have been in the S. African market. They
went there late in the war or just afterwards,
and lost a lot of money over it. But Japan
knows far more about wool and wool-buying
to-day than it did then, and it lias chosen a
very experienced agent for the new experi-
ment.
S. Africa still sells most of its wool by
private treaty, though an effort to establish
sales on the Australian model is being made.
The grower sends his clip to a broker, who
sets it out and invites buyers to drop in,
examine the wool and talk it over. It is a
system under which the personality of the
broker and the buyer counts for a great deal.
A good many clips are sold on the farms;
but that plan has been steadily becoming
less popular except among the old Dutch,
who prefer to keep their buying and selling
strictly in their own hands.
Incidentally, the private-treaty plan is
universal also in S. America.
N.S.W. RAMS FOR QUEENSLAND.
"T.X.0.”: Well over 4000 lots were
offered at the Brisbane ram sales. About
three parts of the way through saturation-
point was almost reached; thereafter sales
of anything except rams from the more
fancied studs could only be made at sacri-
ficial prices. Southern breeders had quitted
about 2000 rams in Longreach some three
months previously. Subsequent sales at
Winton and Charleville assisted in dispos-
ing of their surplus. Nevertheless the Bris-
bane catalogues pointed to their numbers
being well over normal.
The decided progress of at least half a
dozen Queensland studs has had a consider-
able effect upon the market for the Riverina
woolly aristocrats ; also, northern buyers are
becoming more discriminating every year.
Breeders in the south must now realise that
nothing but their higher grades of flock rams
will sell to advantage in Queensland.
Future auction sales will be more successful
if numbers are reduced and quality in some
cases is improved upon. To see even a
limited number of flock rams disposed of at
20s. to 80s. per head is heartbreaking to the
breeders and bad for the industry; railage
and selling charges on rams from the River-
ina amount to approximately 82s. 6d. per
head.
Rams which sell best in Queensland are
of the large-framed, plain-bodied type, deep-
barrelled and carrying heavy fleeces of
medium-quality wool. Nothing over four-
tooth should be sent to the sales.
BUYING A HORSE.
“E.S.S.”: Appearance goes a long way
with the average horse-buyer; he inspects
the animal fore and aft and sideways, notes
his points, examines his teeth, feels his
fetlocks—and is satisfied. But there is a
lot about a horse that doesn’t show on
the surface. The eye usually reveals whether
the moke is good-tempered or vicious; the
shape of the head indicates to some extent
whether he is intelligent or stupid. Some
good-looking horses have no sense, like some
riders, and that is an important matter that
is not considered by many casual buyers. A
fool horse is bad enough in saddle; in har-
ness he is an aggravation. He is always
causing trouble. When ploughing, his
awkward legs and blundering feet are fre-
quently over the traces and swinglebars at
the turnings. Whipping only makes him
worse. The best treatment for Stupid is
kindness.
The character of many horses is only
disclosed on an intimate acquaintance. An
animal, though pleasing in appearance and
paces, may be a rogue, a bolter, a kicker,
a stumbler, or a brute that shies at his own
shadow. He may be short-winded, a
whistler, a roarer, a bridle-breaker, or an
untrustful beast that performs occasionally
and unexpectedly like a cyclone in a fit.
I rode a stockhorse that used to gallop
with peculiar little props and jolts, mean-
while gazing intently before him as if
“seeing things,” especially when crossing
tree shadows. In every other respect he
was excellent. A study of his ways revealed
that he was short-sighted. On the same
station there was a fine big chestnut liorse,
quiet and staunch, and a good worker on a
drafting camp; but if you got close behind
him in yard or paddock he lashed with
both heels.
Try before you buy is a wise plan with
horses. An annoying sort that is only dis-
covered on a trial is the hack that jumps
or prances and throws its head up when
it has tripped against something or made a
slight stumble. That horse has been spoilt
by a fool rider, who jerked at its mouth or
spurred it for stumbling, and every time it
trips it expects to be punished.
There is the calculating rogue that is
hard to catch outside a yard or small pad-
dock, unless he is hobbled. We had one in a
droving mob that no one could catch unless
he approached in a stooping posture with
his hand out towards its feet. The brute
thought the hobbles were going to be taken
off him, even if they weren’t on. A more
common type is the horse that can only be
caught by holding a hat out with one hand
and holding the bridle behind the back with
the other. That horse has been used to
getting a feed of corn in a dish. But if he
is deceived too often with clods in a hat
he is likely to become a‘ worse rogue than
ever.
THE WHEAT-ROOT GRUB.
“5.N.0.”: While science seems able to
combat most of the diseases of wheat, the
little curled wheat-root grub has so far had
things much its own way. It appears under
the ground about May, and until the wheat
grows lives on vegetable matter of many
sorts, but changes to wheat roots when the
crop is a few inches high. The crop is
usually affected in isolated patches, as the
small brown beetles lay their eggs in colonies.
The grub is most dapiaging in July or
early August; at that time it is about an
inch long if straightened. It is of a creamy
color, the earth in the alimentary canal
giving the rear segments a dark greyish
appearance. Treatment of the soil with
poison has been found impracticable, and
so far magpies seem to have been the only
controlling factor. Entomologists have been
on the look-out for a parasite for some
years, but so far unsuccessfully. Owen Bros.,
of Duri, in the Tamworth district (N.S.W.),
recently tried a novel form of attack on the
suggestion of the local agricultural in-
structor, Mark Reynolds. The soil where
the wheat had been killed was soft and
light, so a flock of ewes heavy in lamb was
driven over the patch several times. The
procedure had the effect of killing great
numbers of the grubs, their crushed bodies
being found just below the surface.
TOBACCO-GROWING IN VICTORIA.
In an article —the first of a series:—pub-
lished in their departmental “Journal,”
W. J. B. McDonald, Assistant Inspector of
Agriculture in Vic., and G. E. Coghlan, one
of the field officers, issue a warning against
the too-common impression that any “mug”
can grow tobacco and make a good living
at it. They point out that only of good-
quality leaf can it be said that an assured
market at remunerative prices exists, and
that “such leaf cannot be produced by the
unskilled grower.” Cost of production is
£3O to £4O an acre, a curing barn capable
of dealing with seven or eight, acres of crop
costs £l2O, and if blue mould appears—it
is “not yet under control”—there may be
no crop to cure. In short, “for the un-
skilled grower with but a limited amount
of capital to invest, tobacco-growing is not
a good risk,”
As far as Victoria is concerned, “outside
the north-eastern, Pomona! and Shepparton
districts tobacco-growing is still in an ex-
perimental stage.” The stiff soils of tlm
Goulburn Valley, the rich black loams of
the Wimmera and the shallow soils of the
Vic. grazing country are definitely unsuit-
able ; so. is soil with a high salt content. The
most suitable soils are sands or light sandy
loams of little value for the production of
the staple Victorian crops; where there is
no irrigation there should be a good reten-
tive subsoil, and five or six inches of rain
evenly distributed between the end of Sep-
tember and the end of January is essential.
And there must also be “a certain high level
of temperature during the ripening period—
oyer a great proportion of the State this
high level is not maintained.”
To intending growers who have sufficient
capital and experience, or are prepared to
buy their experience, the two officers give
useful hints on the selection of varieties, the
construction of seed-beds and the care of
seedlings. The varieties recommended are —
For the north-east: Hickory Pryor, Con-
queror, Gold Leaf, Dungowan, Spotted Gum;
for Shepparton: Gold Leaf, Hickory Pryor,
White Stem. Orinoco, Dungowan and
Warne; for Pomonal: Dungowan, Spotted
Gum, Hickory Pryor; and for light sandy
loam in other districts: Hickory Pryor,
Yellow Pryor. Gold Leaf, Dungowan and
Spotted Gum. The writers declare that “some
of the heavier-yielding varieties, such as Blue
Pryor, P.K., Medley Pryor and Lacks,
although giving a large quantity of leaf per
acre, are yielding a type of tobacco which
is not calculated to enhance the reputation
of Australian leaf among the smoking
public.” In general, they convey the im-
pression that when things settle down Vic-
toria’s contribution to the tobacco-growing
industry will be small compared with that
of Queensland.
FIGHTING THE BANANA BORER.
“Azac”: N.S.W. banana-growers’ troubles
did not end with the conquering of bunchy-
top. The banana beetle-borer has become
a' menace, though somewhat slower than
bunchytop in reducing a plantation to the
stage of unprofitableness. It is a true weevil
in form, about long, and when fully
grown is black. It lays its eggs in the butt
of the banana stem just above ground level;
the grub bores into the bulb or corm, and
continues to tunnel until the stem becomes
rotten and dies,. or is so much reduced in
vitality that it either ceases to bear or bears
only . useless bunches. The grub does
practically all the damage, and its presence
is hard to detect. Stems and suckers
that show signs of premature withering and
unthriftiness, should be suspected, and should
be sliced off close to the ground; if the
borer is present the tunnels will then be
visible.
Recent regulations prohibit the sale or
removal of suckers from infested plantations,
and require that spent stems of infested
plants shall be cut off at ground level and
split longitudinally, the freshly-cut surfaces
to be dusted with a mixture of one part of
Paris green and 20 parts of flour or pollard.
The corms of infested plants must be dug out
or cut up. As a precaution, when an uninfested
stem. is cut down the surface of the bulb
remaining in the ground should be dusted
with the mixture mentioned; if, in addition,
all the trash is stripped from the plants the
beetles have no place in which to shelter.
An excellent idea is to cut a 3in. or 4in.
thickness (or “cap”) from the bottom of
the stem cut down, which ,is then fitted on
top of the cut corm, the two cut surfaces
(which are given a dusting with the Paris-
green mixture) being kept slightly apart
by means of a small stone. The beetles seek
shelter between the surfaces and feed on the
poisoned juices.
The borer does its greatest damage in
poor forest-country soils; it is not half as
destructive on rich soils. Seemingly the
more vigorous plants are able to outgrow
the mischief it causes.
LEMONS SHOULD .BE PROFITABLE.
R. K. Deea” ; The lemon-tree thrives on
a variety of soils in Australia, particularly
under irrigation in inland districts, and
lemon-growing ought to be profitable, but
profitable it is not. A poor attempt has
been made here to exploit the secondary
industries associated with the culture of the
lemon in other parts of the world Italy
exports 100,000 gallons of lemon oil and
approximately 10,000 tons, of citrate of lime
(containing about 6000 tons of citric acid)
annually. Australia imports its requirements
of these commodities, although we have un-
limited supplies of lime and tons of the
fruit going to waste. The mild spring of
last year, combined with plenty of sunlight
at flowering and ample rain ever since, has
resulted in.a bountiful yield.
In addition to lemon oil and citrate of
lime, lemons are the basis of lemon pectin,
citric acid, candied peel and other confec-
tions, and various cordials and essences. The
highest grade of expressed oil is worth about
AJs. a pound, and the yield is 10 pounds per
t l O ” 1 ot frmt, which would also produce about
, ,g: ot citric acid, worth a couple of
shillings per pound. I take it that, the run
ot the main crop this year will average
about three shillings per case, apart from
the quantity which will remain unsold. My
own grove gave 440 cases of all grades,
about eight tons per acre. We Australians
must get busy with our surplus raw material
thereby stabilising the market, creating em-
ployment and putting an end to unnecessary
importations.
The . market does not care for the fruit
when it is too small or too large. Small
lemons in the hands of the retailers are
bad keepers, due fo the comparatively large
surface area exposed to the drying action of
the atmosphere; and large lemons are com-
monly (and erroneously) believed to be all
skin and no juice. The percentage of juice
contained in a lemon will, of course, largely
depend on the maturity of the fruit. A
lemon ripened on the tree will show a some-
what larger percentage of juice than when
it is picked green" or in the silver stage, and
packed away to ripen or keep. The size of
the fruit may be controlled by irrigation in
an irrigable, grove, or by thinning out where
the setting, is too heavy in a dry grove. As
usual, grading is one of the important factors
in marketing. As to varieties, the Eureka
is the best yielder and the Eisbon the best,
seller.
I know of no more suitable crop for the
uninitiated than the lemon when worked in
conjunction with a few cows, pigsi and
poultry. The trees require heavy manuring
with a natural manure, together with an
annual dressing of .4cwt. per acre of blood
and bone, with periodic applications of sul-
phate ot ammonia and a potash fertiliser. In
dry years on dry farms the trees may suffer
from lack of moisture, but this is rarely
fatal. Good drainage is an essential, and
winter spraying with white oil. emulsion
(lib. in 10 gallons) should not be neglected.
An early-spring spraying with oil —half the
strength mentioned, to which has been added
two ounces of 40 per cent, nicotine to every
10 gallons—will be found to successfully
combat the main pest, black aphis.
Bu .y your trees from a reputable nursery-
man and when garnering the crop always
cut the fruit off—do not pull it. Under
suitable conditions the trees may on occa-
sions set too heavy a crop; in that case
it is wise to erect a small sapling in the
centre of the tree with which to support
the branches maypole fashion, thereby avoid-
ing the danger of the heavilv-laden limbs
splitting.
BITTER-PIT.
“Disc Harrow”: Bitter-pit in apples still
remains one of the chief causes of loss to
growers who eool-storc their fruit. The
disease also appears in overseas shipments.
Investigations into its cause and possible
methods of combating it have been undertaken
by the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research; net result is the discovery that
the trouble is almost wholly due to picking
before the fruit is sufficiently mature. This
bears out many growers’ own experiences,
for it is often noticed that early shipments
sent overseas are more liable to bitter-pit
than those shipped later. Too much haste
to get in early is thus likely to result in loss.
As D'r. B. T. Dickson, chief of the plant
industry division, points out, many growers
believe that their crops are attacked by
bitter-pit while still on the trees. They are
really smitten by internal cork, which has a
very similar appearance, fitter-pit develops
during cool storage. A contributing cause
may be . picking and storing the apples while
they are wet.
Apples with bitter-pit also appear to
infect one another, which is a further argu-
ment for wrapping overseas shipments in
insulating paper. Some time ago I had some
apples stored in a private cellar. They were
picked over regularly, and all suspicious
specimens thrown out. The loss from the
cases in which this was done was appreciably
less than the average.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Cure for lampas in a horse? —5417.
Lampas is not a specific disease, but is
usually an evidence of slight irritation of the
stomach or intestines, producing indigestion.
It is usually a passing phase, especially in
young animals. A dose of purgative medicine,
such as a pint of raw linseed oil, or the
giving of a few bran mashes is all that is
necessary to put matters right. In cases
when the swelling is so great as to prevent
the animal eating (which is very uncommon),
it is the custom to lightly scarify the swollen
lampas with a sharp knife.
1 have a mare which cannot he got into
foal. What's Wrong and what can he done?
—5434.
It is necessary to discover if a diseased
condition exists and, if so, to remedy it.
See a vet.
What are the respective records of Melba
15 th and Segis in (1) pounds of milk per
365 days? (2) Pounds of butter-fat? (3)
Percentage of butter-fat in each case? —
5217.
(1) Melba, 32.52211 b.; Segis. 16.98211 b.
(2) 1614.11 b.; 599.721 b. (3) 5 ; 3.5.
(1) How to prevent milk from buttering
up when taken round by the milk vendor .
(2) flow to improve keeping quality of mill
without pasteurising ? —5272.
(1) Cool milk immediately after milking,
The milk should be delivered as fresh as
possible. Avoid excessive concussion in the
tank or can; one means to this end is to
avoid using too large a container for the
quantity of milk to be delivered. Do not
mix stale and fresh milk together. (2) It
is necessary to exercise the utmost cleanli-
ness in the milking and in the subsequent
handling of the product. The udder of the
cow should be first wiped with a clean damp
cloth to remove all adhering dirt or dust. The
hands of the milker should be clean and the
first few jets of milk should be discarded.
All utensils with which the milk comes in
contact should be first rinsed with warm
water, cleansed with sodawater and finally
scalded with boiling water, and left to dry
(Continued on Page 26.)


The receiver that has won
unqualified public accept-
ance throughout Australia
THE “NEW FISK SERIES”
HAD I O LA
45E
V V,
'Mr*
t rm
m .
ill
H
• ’ .
W
m
111
iigiS»pKSllli®®
.
Individuality and charm are expressed in
the artistically designed and proportioned
Radiola 45E console cabinet.
Brilliant performance, sound engineering,
and distinctive appearance combine to
stamp the “New Fisk Series” Radiola 45E
as the finest all-electric, screen grid, four-
valve cabinet receiver yet manufactured in
Australia for Australian conditions. All
A.C. Radiolas are equipped with Radiotron
Valves.
FEATURING
Interstate reception.
Full power dynamic speaker.
Beautifully designed cabinet.
Tone control —allowing you to personally
accentuate the higher or lower notes to your
taste.
High degree of sensitivity —amazing ampli-
fication of distant radio signals.
Extreme selectivity —no overlapping of
broadcast stations.
Elimination of hum.
Designed and manufactured by Amalgamated
Wireless, the leaders of radio in Australia, the
Radiola 45E worthily upholds the prestige
established by A.W.A. in the wireless world.
It incorporates the very latest improvements in
broadcast reception and is priced at a figure in
keeping with the conditions of to-day.
43910
COMPLETELY EQUIPPED.
EASY TERMS AVAILABLE.
In order to fully appreciate the many
improvements that are incorporated in
the Radiola 45E, you have but to call
on your local Radiola Dealer, who will
demonstrate its brilliant performance.
You will also learn on what easy terms
you can purchase this superb instru-
ment.
3SL-7,
ihi>i fi?/;
LOW
Greatest Value In
Badiola History


I==
. I
Av
XI
‘V
A specially designed
upper
Built on an exclusive Abbey-
last, this smart Abbey Boot has
an upper shaped to accommo-
date every curve of the foot. It
arches over the instep.
There’s no dragging strain at
any point. And, behind the
ankle, it is cut a little lower to
guarantee close fit.
The sole is made of the
toughest Australian leather. . .
pliant and serviceable. Extra
wear is guaranteed.
Order by post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in both full and half-
sizes. Specify width when ordering,
and ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF. 43/6
BLACK CALF . . . . 43/6
PATENT LEATHER . . 52/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street &. 224. Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
PPL 245
“H
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane "Telegraph is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, LAd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
pTCi
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
COUCHS
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
#3*
iS©
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150.000
.. £89,228,378
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 ..
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St.,
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji.
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
E.C.2.
, Papua,
Plum Razor Guard
d
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD fits any ordinary blade razor, f, £, f inch.
With this Guard you can shave with perfect safety, with the correct diagonal
shaving stroke ensuring a comfortable shave. Spring clip on the guard allows
instant adjustment. 2/9 each, post free.
B! he
PLUM
RAZOR
Strongly-made, grained leather
hinged case provided free with
each razor.
POST FREE PRICES:
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 ea.
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle .... 15/6 ea.
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ea.
7-aay Sets—7 Razors in oak case—Black
85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
“PLUM RAZORS” are supplied in two
widths—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
in a clean atmosphere. Cloths should not
be used in the dairy for drying these uten-
sils. The milk should be aerated and cooled,
after which it should be placed in a dairy
which is free from bad smells and is cool.
I have a breeding sow who lost her first
litter prematurely. The second was a litter
of seven —four sows three boars. Is it advis-
able to keep the sows for breeding? —s266.
The premature birth of the first litter
may have been due to physical causes, and
if so there should be no objection to using
some of the sows from the second litter
for breeding purposes.
(1) Quantity of flour exported from Vic.
last year and average price? (2J Can I
obtain from any of the published balance-
sheets of flour-milling cos. an idea of the
gristing cost per ton? (3) A reliable book
on flour-milling? —s244.
(1) 170,680 tons; average price, £8 10s. 9d.
per ton. (2) No balance-sheets are pub-
lished. (3) Amos’s “Processes of Flour
Manufacture” and Simon’s “Physical Science
of Flour-milling.”
(1) What forms of fruit-farming are most
profitable in Queensland, and what are the
most suitable localities? (2) Capital re-
quired, and is the investment worth making?
—5284.
(1) The coastal lands from the southern
border to 1200 miles north are in parts suited
for the cultivation of practically all tropi-
cal fruits. (2) For a man without experi-
ence and not used to improvising, at least
£l5OO. A good property will return a com-
fortable living.
How is basic slag used? Price and where
obtainable in Melbourne? —5323.
Not obtainable in Victoria. sample
of soil, together with fee of 10s. 6d. and
full details of other fertilisers tried, to
Agricultural Chemist, Vic. Department of
Agriculture, Melbourne, and you will be
advised as to best procedure.
(1) Most suitable district in Australia
for tobacco-growing? (2) Is Mareeba (Q.)
a good district? (3) What is the climate
like there, and is tobacco there subject to
any disease? (4) Is Government land avail-
able and on what terms? (5) Details of
capital required? (6) Cost of working and
return per acre per year? (7) What area
can be worked by one man? (8) Books on
tobacco culture? —4792.
(1) and (2) Mareeba district is one of
the best areas in Q’land for the production
of fine-textured bright lemon leaves, for
which there is a great demand, as proved,
by trials carried out over Australia during
the last four years. (3) The climate. is
ideal for tobacco-growing, the altitude being
from 1500 to 2000 feet above sea level. A
south-easterly trade wind prevails for eight
months of the year, laden with moisture and
fairly cool, which assists in the growing of
fine-textured leaves. (4) The only way to
obtain Government land is by ballot, price
being 2s. 6d. per acre spread over a period
of 10 years. Full particulars from Lauds
Department, Brisbane. (5) It costs about
£5OO to establish a five-acre tobacco farm.
Items are: Flue barn, 24ft. by 12ft., £210;
bulk shed. 20ft. by 17ft., £80; plough, scuffler
and fertiliser distributor, £4O: two horses,
£2O: plants (if not grown yourself), £25;
fertiliser, £23; shanty to live in. £25; clear-
ing of five acres, £5O; fencing tools, etc., £3O.
(6) Cost of working is about £4O per acre.
Average returns per acre £6O. Last season
some growers averaged £l5O to £2OO per
acre. (7) Five acres, but assistance would
be required for harvesting and curing. (8)
“Tobacco Leaf,” by Ivillebrew and Myrick.
(1) What are the prospects for peanut-
growing in the N.T.? (2) Most suitable
localities? (3) Capital? (4) Approximate
net return per acre? (5) Area that could
be successfully worked by one man? (6) Is
native labor available? If so, on what
terms? (7) Demand for peanuts? (8)
Markets —home or export? (9) Approxi-
mate number of persons engaged in industry
in N.T.? —4529.
(1) Fair. The high-grade nut produced
in the N.T.. with careful production and
grading, will command a good market in
Australia for some years, and it is likely to
be some time before the top-grade will be
over-produced. (2) Banks of the rivers
where alluvial loams have been deposited.
(3) £5OO should be sufficient to commence.
(4) On an average, about £2O. As the land
becomes improved with cultivation the return
increases. (5) About 10 acres. (6) In
some districts. Cost depends on locality.
Near the railways 6s. per week with food
and clothing is usual; out on the rivers
natives get food and tobacco. It is cheaper
to use machinery than to depend on unreli-
able native labor. (7) Thei'e is a steady
demand. (8) Home only. (9) About 200.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mica”: Before pastoralists throw away
crutchings, stained pieces, burry and other-
wise dirty wool, as advised by “Murrawong”
(B. 19/8/’3l), they should make inquiries
about Goldsbrough Mort’s willeying machine,
now working on stations in western N.S.W.
This machine made Burta’s unsaleable wool
into something worth a pound, and
western pastoralists are amazed at What
the machine can do in the way of getting
more money for the wool sent in.
“St. Andrews”: Timber is plentiful _in
my N.S.W. district, so instead of having
temporary yards in the lambing paddock at
marking-time I build a new one each year.
It is the ordinary square yard, made of
posts and rails with a small yard in one
corner, one gate leading from the big yard
to the small one and another from the small
yard to the paddock. Lambs arc marked into
the paddock; ewes let out through the gate.
One advantage is the lessening of the risk
of blood-poisoning; then the yard will come
in handy afterwards for general purposes.
“Hornby”-: After shearing don’t throw
away unsaleable pelts from killers or leave
them out on the rails to be destroyed by
weather. Tanned, trimmed and sewn to-
gether, four make an excellent cow- or horse-
rug. The fastenings can be made from the
trimmings, using three thicknesses. Woolly
side in. they are superlatively comfortable
and warm, and will last several seasons.
Also they don’t pick up grass seeds and buxr.
“Crom”: This is the best way I know of
keeping a dog fit and out of mischief,
though the best substitute cannot equal regu-
lar work. Get two posts and some wire—
the longer the wire the better—put posts in
ground, and stretch wire between, having
first threaded a small pulley on it. Attach
one end of Towser’s tether to pulley and the
other to Towser. Have the wire high enough
to prevent the dog jumping over it. Put the
kennel at one end of the run and feed him
at the other end. Towser will soon learn
the length of his run and how to take
advantage of it, and also how to untwist
himself from round the posts. .
“0.X.0.”: Don’t throw that old square
iron tank away. With one side and top cut
out it makes an excellent fireplace, either
for one of the rooms or for out in the yard.
And it’s a simple matter to build a chimney
over it, using galvanised iron.
“Beady”: I keep my farm machinery
bright and free from rust by using an ounce
of camphor, dissolved in a .pound of melted
lard; take off the scum and mix as mucii
fine black lead as will give it iron color.
Clean the machinery and smear it with this
mixture. After 24 hours, rub clean with
soft linen cloth.
“Mulgo”: When bark huts were common,
the sheets of stringybark were hung to the
top batten of a roof with green hide, two
small holes being cut with a chisel for each
tie. This is better and easier to work with
than wire, which “Tangaloli” advises (B.
5/8/’3l). Riders were used, also cross
riders, called jockeys, to keep the bark down,
but they mhde an ugly finish and had other
disadvantages. To make a neat finish,
strap the bark down with galvanised hoop-
iron, along near the bottom and along the
middle, and short strips over the ridge cap-
ping. Dip the nails in thin paint, and if
the bark is properly dried they won’t do
it any harm. Strain the lioop-iron tightly,
fastening it under the batten at each end.
“W. 0.”: In Westralian orchards where
the red-scale parasite, Aphytis chrysom-
phalus, is established red scale is notice-
ably absent this year. In mine there
has never before been such clean fruit.
It may, however, pay to assist a good worker.
Having noticed that, even in years when
oranges were not badly affected, it was hard
to find a scale-free lemon, I sprayed all
my lemon-trees with a white oil at a strength
of about 1-60 in January last year, follow-
ing with a second issue about six weeks later
—about 2gal. per tree each time. The result
was a clean crop. This year I sprayed once
only, in early winter, at a l-in-45 strength ;
result, an even cleaner crop. In future I
am going to concentrate on keeping my
lemons clean, leaving my good friends Mr.
and Mrs. Aphytis chrysomphalus and family
to carry on the good work among the oranges.
“E.TI.M.”: The majority of banana-
growers pack their fruit with the pointed
stalk ends against the sides of the case. If
dumped at all heavily during transport the
ends arc liable to be bruised or broken off.
Pack the opposite way: the blunted flower
ends will withstand a hard knock without
damage to the fruit.
“Dimon”: Turkeys can be travelled on
the road just as easily as sheep, and when
a big mob has to be delivered to a buyer, or
taken to the saleyard, it is better to drive
them than to crowd them into many coops
or into a covered conveyance. I have seen
them driven in Queensland when several day-
stages had to be made to reach town. Grain
was carried on a packliorse, and a few sap-
lings provided the night camp.
“Wrasli” : For lengthening the life of posts
in the ground, soak the butts with creosote
oil, or with zinc chlorate or copper sulphate.
Then coat them thickly with asphalt or tar.
It must be seasoned timber.
“Odd Job” :. If the step of the cart is slip-
pery it’s dangerous. Cut a cover from an
old outer tyre and rivet it over. This gives
a grip and saves accident.
“Karaway” : If you want to catch bandi-
coots alive and uninjured, the pitfall will be
found effective. The pit should not be more
than 18in. square, but must be deep enough
to prevent the bandicoot jumping out. It
can be covered with a piece of an old chaff-
bag, lightly pegged at the corners, and that
covered with fine soil, the surroundings being-
left as natural as possible. Where grain is
not sown, the spot may be sprinkled with
corn, chips of apples or carrots for bait.
Another lure is to plant a short row of maize
with a hoe, leading across the centre of pit.
Something might be done in North Queens-
land and New Guinea with sesame. In pares
of Europe it is compulsory for the margarine
manufacturer to use a certain quantity of
the oil extracted from the seed, because, for
one thing, it gives a chemical reaction that
infallibly distinguishes synthetic from real
butter. Some years ago the Empire Market-
ing Board reported that India—the country
of supply—could not produce enough for
home consumption. The seed was then worth
about £32 per ton in England. The “Ency-
clopaedia Britannica” says the oil “is very
largely used for the same purposes as olive
oil, and, although less widely known by
name, is commercially a much more im-
portant oil” —a quite surprising statement.
Queensland and N.S.vV, growers are
entering on a campaign to induce the public
to eat more bananas. The Australian con-
sumes only 101 b. of this fruit per head
yearly, against the American’s 241 b.. though
the latter has to import most of his fruit.
The country districts especially are not enthu-
siastic about bananas, and that looks to be
chiefly because few country towns have
proper ripening rooms. This results in an
inferior article being marketed. Part of
the scheme suggested by the Banana
Growers’ Federation is the erection of
standard ripening-rooms in country centres
as well as in the cities. Eyes are being cast
also on the Maoriland trade.
“Heidelberg”: Having had the privilege of
studying the fruits of the Vic. Stallion
Registration Act. I beg to differ with “Cen-
turion” (B. 5/8/’3l). Prominent horse-
breeders dropped out as a result of that Act.
Some of them owned imported horses;
others, the progeny of imported stock. Two
of the leading Melbourne horsedealers have
stated that the best draught horses they have
bought for years came from adjoining States
and were sired bv stallions rejected under
the Vic. Act. N. S. Wales may congratulate
itself on its not having copied the Vic. legis-
lation*


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. •
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Tlie right of selection and is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Engineer (21), apprenticed N.S.W., wants job on
station. Refs. —5388.
Coaching for all examinations by Uni. graduate,
Sydney.—s 394.
Tasmanian (19) wants job in aviation. Go any-
where. Refs. —5392.
Wool- and skin-classer (25), with accountancy
exp., wants position.—s4s4.
Young man (22), Melbourne, wants work in
country.—s4l3.
Man (34), Sydney, sheep, dairy and general farm
exp., wants work anywhere.—s33o.
Electrical and mechanical fitter (S.A.), 28, wants
position anywhere.—s 324.
Young lady (20), Sydney, wants position as typist.
—5420.
Man (57), Sydney, used to boats, wants job in
boatshed during summer months. Able to do repairs.
-5421.
Young journalist, Sydney, will do literary research
work, indexing, typing, etc., at home. —5419.
Words of song “I Want to Go to Morrow.” —5453.
To exchange courses in journalism, sliort-story
writing, showcard writing and shorthand, for others.
—5331.
Words of verse “The Bush Parson.” —5469.
To buy “Lady Chatterly’s Lovers,” by D. H.
La wrence. —5474.
•To hear from descendants or relations of George
and Charlotte (nee Harper) Bell, who resided at
Bendigo, Brunswick and Nqrthcote about 35 years
ag0. —6447.
To buy complete files “Smith’s Weekly” last five
years. —5397.
Words of verse by Ogilvie “A Nicht wi’ Burns
at Yakandandah.”—s396.
N.c.o. of S.U.R. would like to get marching-
songs from returned Diggers and others.—s3B7.
To exchange physical culture course for 1 2 months’
issue of “Popular Mechanics,” or “Geographical
Magazine.”—s43B.
Information Sought.
(1) Best district in Q’land for crocodile-
hunting? (2) Method of skinning? (3)
What part of the skin is required? (4)
llow dried and prepared for market? (5)
JAkely buyers? (6) Average price? —5289.
(lj Cairns. (2) and (3) Only the belly
part is required, skinned in the ordinary way.
(4) Dry them, well stretched, in the sun,
but be careful that they do not get sun-
blistered (5) Iv. Pribil, Hardy’s Chambers,
De Mestre-place, Sydney. (0) Skins from
2ft. 4in. only are wanted and bring from
3s. to Bs. each.
(1) A helpful book for a man going pros-
pecting in Vic.? (2) Simplest and best way
to erect a bell tent so that during windy
weather it will be draught-proof f—5263.
(1) A “Prospectors’ Guide,” giving parti-
culars of the goldfields and containing a map,
is obtainable from Mines Department, Mel-
bourne, Is. fid. (2) The tent may be tixed to
a log or frame set in the ground, or a piece
of canvas or bagging can be sewn to the
wall of the tent and buried under the earth.
It will be found, however, that with the
walls a few inches clear of the ground no
draught will be noticeable even in windy
weather..
Is it illegal for an executor of a will, being
a legatee, to .buy the interests of the other
beneficiaries? —5350.
Not if he has carried out strictly the pro-
visions of the will and the estate has been
finally wound up.
(1) How did. the Condominium come about
in the New Hebrides? (2) Has it been suc-
cessful ? —5320.
(1) It was devised with a view to smooth-
ing over the conflicting interests of Britain
and France. (2) No.
(1) How is perfume extracted from
powers by the fat maceration process? (2)
Could pure cocoanut oil be used? (3) How
is the extract broken down to produce ordi-
nary scent? (4) Any demand for frangi-
panni or ilahgilang extracts?. —5158.
(1) Process is highly technical. Details
can be obtained from the Director, Techno-
logical Museum, Harris-street, Sydney. (2)
Doubtful, owing to its peculiar composition.
You would have to experiment. (3) By
rectified alcohol. (4) Judging by the very
low. prices of imported preparations the
demand is small.
(1) Displacement of H.M.A.S. Australia?
(2) How much did she cost to build and
how much does it cost to maintain her? —
5403. •
(1) 10,000 tons. (2) Capital cost was
£1,930,465, not including torpedoes, ammu-
nition, ordnance and naval stores. Cost of
maintenance is £277,300 annually.
What Australian and overseas expeditions
have been organised for the observation of
astronomical phenomena in Australia or
adjacent Pacific islands? —5418.
There was an expedition to Eclipse Island
(Northern Australia) to view total eclipse
of the sun, Dec. 11. 1871. Various parties
from overseas in various parts of Australia
observed the transit of Venus. Dec. 1874,
and D'”., 1882. Total eclipse of the
sun. May 10, 1890, was observed by an ex-
pedition to Bruni Island (Tas.) ; on April
29, 1911, from Vavau, an island of the Tonga
group; and on Sept. 21, 1922, ut Wallal
(W.A.). Five parties were at Wallal;
others were stationed along the southern
border of Queensland and in the far north-
eastern corner of S.A.
Are Australian authors who sell novels,
scenarios or serials in the U.B.A. subject to
U.B.A. income tax? —5424.
The tax does not apply to outright sales
of serial rights, or (usually) film rights, but
6 p.c. is imposed on receipts from royalties.
(1) Is sump oil suitable for oiling weather-
boards ? (2) Would the boards take paint
afterwards? —5370. , , ,
(1) No. It would not dry and "would
collect dust, fluff, etc., resulting in a most
unsightly appearance in a very snort time.
(2) Being non-drying, it would be impos-
sible to ever paint over a surface to wlucu
the oil had been applied.
(1) Where do the miners on the Buloio
goldfield (N.G.) get fresh vegetables from?
(2) Would a young man with a capital of
£2OO have any chance of making a living
growing vegetables there? (3) Is the soil
suitaMe, and land available? —5309.
(1) Provision has been made by some or
the cos. operating on the goldfields for the
making of gardens and the growing of vege-
tables. Requirements over and above the
production in the area would be obtained by
aeroplane from Salamaua. (2) Capital is
insufficient. (2) Suitable land may be
obtained at or near Wau, nine miles from
the Edie Creek goldfields.
(1) What are the by-products of -coal-gas
manufacture and their uses? (2) What are
the products of coal by the low-temperature
carbonisation process and their uses? 5119.
(1) Coke (fuel), tar (road-making and
fuel), ammonia (fertiliser), fuel oil, wood
preserving oil, phenol (disinfectant), pyri-
dine (making methylated spirits), solvent
naphtha (rubber solvent), benzol (motor
fuel), naphthaline (insecticide), pitch
(briquettes). From benzol and naphthaline
numerous perfumes and dyes are derived.
(2) Main products are coke and oils. Jhe
latter is used for the production of motor
spirit, fuel oils and lubricating oils. Ihe
by-products include gas (which is burnt
under the retorts), ammonia and pitch.
I am the owner of a 24ft. sailing-boat,
drawing 4 ft. 6 in., in which 1 leant to instal
an engine in such a way as to avoid impair-
ing her sailing qualities. Is the system of
setting the motor to one side, with the pro-
peller well off the centre line of the boat,
advisable? —5452.
Quite practicable. Put the engine on
the side of the vessel on which it will be
easiest to ‘swing over in starting, and make
sure that the rudder will not touch the pro-
peller when the tiller is hard over. • our
stem-tube will have to be of rather compli-
cated design, and some difficulty may be ex-
perienced in lining up the engine and shaft m
this unusual position. Difficulties in this
respect may be obviated by driving the pro-
peller through a flexible, coupling. Use a
two-bladed propeller, as it offers least drag
to the boat’s way when under sail, and make
sure that your engine bed or bearers are
longer than usual, as they will be fastened
to lighter timbers of the boat than if installa-
tion were central.
In what cases are appeals from the N.B.W.
Supreme Court to the High Court of Aus-
tralia allowed? —5463,
They may be made in any case by permis-
sion of the High Court, and as of right in
cases involving a matter valued at £369 or
more or involving the status of any person
under laws relating to aliens, marriage,
divorce or bankruptcy, provided that appeal
lay to the Privy Council in such case at the
date of establishment of the Commonwealth.
Such appeal may be made even if a State
law provides that the decision of the Supreme
Court is final.
(1) Are meteorites of any value to Gov-
ernments or commercial' firms? (2) What
is their value? (3) What are they used
for? —5361.
(1) Unless of exceptional size or shape, no.
(2) They have no stable marketable value.
Curio-dealers may quote a price. (3) For
educational purposes and curios.
How can I obtain a license to instal elec-
tric light in N.S.W.? Knowledge required,
and fee? —5307.
licenses may be obtained in a number of
ways, either with or without examination,
according to the qualifications of the appli-
cant. The fee for an electrical contractor’s
license is £2 per annum, and for an elec-
trician’s ss. per annum. Apply to the Elec-
tricians’ Licensing Board, 9 Bligli-street,
Sydney.
(1) Length of the overland telegraph line
from Port Augusta to Darwin? (2) Cost
of construction? (3) Hoav long did it take?
(4) By whom? (5) Did the natives prove
troublesome during building? —s47o.
(1) 1800 miles. (2) Over £300,000. (3)
23 months. (4) It was built partly by
private contractors and partly by labor under
the supervision of Charles Todd, then S.A.
Postmaster-General. (5) Not very. Not a
single white man was killed.
How is the tone in a sort of speckled
effect that one sees in Bulletin drawings
applied? —s477.
The stipple may be done with the point of
a pen, or, more quickly, by masking tlie por-
tions of the drawing not to be stippled and
spraying the remainder, drawing a tooth-
brush charged with Indian ink lightly over
the teeth of a comb or a thin piece of stick.
Another method is applied by the process-
engraver on the block. The artist indicates
where he wishes it to go by a blue wash.
(1) Is there a course in journalism at
Sydney Uni.? (2) How long? (3) Sub-
jects? (4) What qualifications are necessary
to enrol? (5) Cost? —-5380.
(1) Yes. (2) Two years. (3) There is
a choice of subjects from those prescribed
for the B.A. degree, together with a special
course in the history, principles and prac-
tice of journalism. (4) No special qualifi-
cations for admission to the course, but be-
fore qualifying for the diploma candidates
must have had not less than four years’
approved experience of professional work m,
journalism. (5) About £3O per annum,
depending on the courses selected.
Best way of cleaning a motor-car radiator ?
—5410.
Drain out the radiator while the car. is
hot and fill up with a solution of washing
soda, about a cupful of soda to each gallon
of water. The engine should then be run
slowly for about half an hour, . after which
period the radiator is again drained out and
thoroughly flushed.
What sort of creature is the Australian
sea-bear? Is it extinct? —5466.
It is a fur-bearing seal ( Arctocephalus
doriferus) , which in the early days of white
settlement frequented in large numbers the
islands of Bass Strait and localities
on the Vic. and N.S.VV. coasts. It has been
made rare by the activities of seal-
hunters, but is now protected. A speci-
men may occasionally be seen at Western-
port (Vic.) and Seal Rocks, north of New-
castle (N.S.W.). The full-grown mate sea-
bear is 7ft. or Bft. in length; the females
are about 54ft. When out of the water
they can move about actively, the hind limbs
(as in all eared seals) being capable of
being bent forward so as to aid in the sup-
port of the body. Adult males are dark-
brown above, rich chestnut below and on
the limbs and tail; females are lighter in
color.
Is there a definite rule covering the spell-
ing of inflexions arid derivatives_ formed from
words ending in mute e? For instance, why
is the “c” dropped in “duly” and retained,
in “gluey”? —s476.
When a suffix is added to a word ending in
a mute “e,” the “e” is dropped before a
vowel, but not before a consonant; but the
“e” is retained, even before a vowel, if it
is needed to preserve or emphasise the soft
spund of a preceding “g” or “c”—as in
“courageous” or “noticeable.”
My ivater-color paints have dried hard.
(1) How can £ make them fit for use? (2)
Do artists use any solvent other than water
when painting? —s4B3.
(1) Soak them in water overnight, then
add a drop of glycerine to each pan. (2)
Whisky is sometimes used to give a granu-
lated effect and a slightly mellow tone. Sugar
or a little gum arabic dissolved in spirits
gives the pigment a gloss. Soapy water is
useful when the paper is inclined to be
greasy, and a few drops of glycerine added
to the water used in painting keep thd
paint in the pans moist.
What is the objection to the use of a 6-
volt current for house-lighting purposes as
compared icith a 32 -volt current? —5485.
A 6-volt lamp consumes about six times
as much current as does a 32-volt lamp of
the same type and wattage. As the loss of
power over any line varies with the square
of the current flowing along it, the' power
loss in the 6-volt line will be 25 times as
great as on a 32-volt line.
(1) How to calculate the horse-power
necessary to drive a dynamo? (2) How to
convert kilowatts into h.p.f —5481.
(1) This depends upon the efficiency of
the dynamo, which is equal to the ratio of
the electrical power delivered from it to the
mechanical power received by it. Assuming
the efficiency to be 90 per cent., the horse-
power required can be ascertained by multi-
plying the power of the dynamo in kw. by
300 and dividing by 0.746 times the effi-
ciency percentage. Thus in the case of a
3-kw. dynamo, 300 divided by 0.746 times
90 equals 4.4, which is the reouired horse-
power. (2) Multiply kw. by 1.34.
My cockatoo, about nine months old, pulls
out his feathers and eats the quills. Cause
and cure? —5351.
Probably a matter of diet. Give the bird
fat and butter spread on toast, letting the
toast get cold before buttering it, and put a
few drops of cod liver oil on its food each
day.
(1) What were the messing arrangements
in the forecastles of sailing-ships in the latter
part of the last century? (2) What are the
meanings of the words “lobscouse,” “mana-
velins,” “cracker-hash?” (3) What docs the
expression “ white-stocking day ” mean? —
5465.
(1) The “peggy” (the sailor whose turn it
was) went to the galley for the food and
placed it on the forecastle table, if there
was one. or on the floor, or the deck out-
side. The men had their own tin-plates,
pannikins and knives or forks, and the food
was “whacked out” between them by the
“peggy.” Biscuits or ship's bread were kept
in a “bread barge” in a forecastle locker.
(2) “Lobscouse” is the English rendition of
the Scandinavian “lapskaus,” a greasy stew.
“Cracker-hash” is made of hard “bread” and
pork fat, “cracker” being Yankee for that
kind of biscuit. “Manavelins,” an almost
extinct word, was used by the apprentices
(who lived and ate in the half-deck) for
the leavings from the cabin table, which
were given to them after the afterguard
had dined. (3) ’’White-stocking day” was the
day on which the sailors’ wives went to the
shipowner’s office to draw the first allotment
of their husbands’ pay, They wore their
best clothes, as it was a day of celebration.
(1) Is a maternity bonus or any similar
allowance paid in Maoriland? (2) Is there
anything corresponding to the Australian
child endowment payments? (3) Are pen-
sions paid to widows, and, on what scale and
conditions? (4) How much do pensions to
poor people cost per annum in M.L.? —5475.
(1) An allowance of £6 is made to a sub-
scriber to the National Provident Fund of at
least 12 months’ standing, provided the
combined income of husband and wife
does not exceed £3OO p.a. (2) An allow-
ance of 2s. a week is made for each child
in excess of two. The total income, includ-
ing allowance, must not exceed £4 a week.
(3) The applicant must be of good character
and have at least one child under 15. The
pension for a widow and one child is £1
a week, with an additional 10s. for every
additional child, up to a maximum of £4
per week. (4) For year ended March 30.
1930. old-age pensions, £1,107.993 : "widows’
pensions, £323.419; miners’ pensions (paid
to sufferers from phthisis), £51.684; war
pensions,. £1.187,574; children’s allowances,
£6l 008. The total of all pensions was
£2,809,598.
Does Anybody Know?
Derivation and meaning of Clarevaulx,
name of sheep station in Glen Innes
(N.S.W.) district? —5339,
Brief Answers.
E.C.P.P.: The book has no value. . . .G.C.: '
Write to the Scientific and Industrial Research
Council, Melbourne. .. .11.R.II.: He is liable for
N.S.W. Unemployment Relief Tax in respect of thru
portion of his income from employment earned in
N.S.W. only. ... W r .F.: (1) The Chartered, Common-
wealth and Federal Institutes of Accountants are
all of high standing. The first-named insists or
previous service in the auditing profession. (2)
The Chartered and Australasian Institutes of Secre-
taries hold exams, in Australia. (3) The Institute
of Actuaries, an English body, arranges local exams.
P.J.F.: No va1ue.,..L8.: Supply of farmhands
in AV.A. in excess of demand. It would be foolish
to go there without securing a job beforehand....
H.A.M.L.: State your occupation and the circumstances,
in detail, under which the payments are made
J.H.C.: (1) The Marco Polo arrived in Melbourne
on February 25, 1856. The passenger list is missing
from shipping records. Newspapers gave names of
cabin passengers; John Greenwood is not included.
(2) In 1856 there were no Government grazing leases
available within miles of Melbourne. . . .G.F.W. ■
(1) McCurdy s “Leonardo da Vinci,” Beren-
spn.’s “The Drawings of the Florentine Painters,’’
Mrs. Heaton’s "Life of Leonardo da Vinci.”
(2) Try a Chinese newspaper office. (3)
Can’t say without seeing the text. Presume he
was the French historian of that name who wrote
largely on the Renaissance. (1) From Swain’s, 123
Pitt-street, Sydney. .. . J.V.: Swain’s, 3s. 6d.. .. .E.S..
There is no settlement along the shores of Princess
Charlotte Bay, N.Q. The land is held in large areas
under pastoral lease tenure and is used for cattle-
raising. Information regarding mining possibilities may-
be obtained from the Gold Warden, Cooktown... .
J.F.U.: If the holes are not very extensive, they can
be soldered. Sheets of asbestos could also be
fastened over the worst places, or pieces of tin
arranged round the stand. But a new stand would
be the best cure... .C.S.: Sponge with petrol, placing
the velvet face down on thick blotting paper, and
sponging 1 from the back. If this is not effective,
dip tlie whole frock in a petrol bath and dry on ?
dress-hanger without wringing. .. .Iv.S.M.: Jh-
essential treatment of dandruff is frequent washing
of the scalp. Use soap spirit, then wash the soap
spirit out thoroughly with two or three fresh wash-
ings J.N.S.: To remove tattoo marks, a solution
of 50 per cent, tannic acid is tattooed into the
design. After sloughing occurs, silver nitrate is
rubbed into the treated area. This forms a heavy
black deposit of tannate in the skin. The tattooed
area gradually becomes hard and dry and eventually
lifts off. The operation takes some weeks and it is
impossible to prevent scarring... .J.C.L.: (1) and
(2) Presuming the drench is a combination of
materials readily obtainable, you cannot patent it. All
you can do is to find a name for it, get it registered
as -a trade-mark, and keep your formula secret.
(3) Most likely buyer would be a stock and station
agent. (4) About 7s. (5) Firms who supply
stations, stockowners, dairymen, etc. (6) Cannot
give a valuation A.E.H.: Write Agriculture
Department, Sydney, for pamphlet “Ulcerative Gran-
uloma of Pigs”... .F.E.: The Coast , Hospital is
situated at Little Bay, about 10 miles south of
Sydney, with which it is connected by tram. It is
a public (Government) hospital, undenominational
in character, and takes all general cases, including
infectious diseases. The average daily number of
occupied beds is 740... .R.C.D.: Can’t offer an
opinion on information supplied. Write to the
Taxation Department.... J.T.: The N.S.W. Articled
Clerks’ Certificate is now issued to candidates who
qualify for matriculation in law at the Sydney
University. Consult “The Law Almanac of N.S.W.”
(2) £3....J.H.: The book was published by Col
Kindon himself. His address is c/o Imperial Service
Club, 12 O’Connell-street, Sydney... .J.J.L.:
Director, Technological Museum, Sydney, will furnish
full information D.G.: We decline to furnish any
information as to how to become a herbalist....
J.U.H.: You would have to search the records at
the Patents Office, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney; or get a patent attorney to
search for y0u.... W.N.: Advise her to write to
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street....
W.J.8.: There’s a full list in “The Aust. and N.Z.
Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book,” 2s. 6d., obtainable
from most booksellers... .Ouyen: Data insufficient;
why not set out your own ideas for the Land page '!
. ...W.J.M.: Yes, if the party includes boys and
girls, because the invitation shows that the future
bride’s friends wish to welcome her fiance to
their set... .T.R.D.: (1) Yes. (2) You woidd have
to see co.’s marine superintendent. (3) A matter
for you to decide... .T.R.C.: Examinations for stock
inspectors in Q’land are conducted by the Public Ser-
vice Commissioner when vacancies occur. The date
of the next examination has not been fixed.... T.L. :
(1) and (2) You can procure a partnership agree-
ment form from any stationer who sells legal forms.
Neither stamp duty nor registration is required.
Wiser to consult a solicitor and know exactly the
liabilities you are incurring. Partnerships are more
easily made than broken... .M.S.S.: Write to Efftee
Films, His Majesty’s Theatre, Exhibition-street; Har-
wood Aust. Talkies, Stanley-street, West Melbourne;
or Australian Sound Films, “Herald” Building, 62
Flinders-street—all Melbourne... .N. 11.: The “time
signature” in music refers solely to rhythm and has
nothing to do with the speed. . . .L.O. (1) A circular
explaining the basis and use of retail-price index
numbers can be got from the Commonwealth
Statistician, Canberra. (2) Price levels of Aus-
tralian exports are. computed and published in the
Commonwealth Year-Book. The use of such index
numbers for the regulation of payments of interest,
salaries, services and wages would depend upon the
decision of the parties interested and of the indus-
trial tribunals V.A.C.P.: O’Donnell, Griffin and
Co., Druitt-street, Sydney, can supply K.F.:
Write Spinks, 5 King-street, St. James’s, London,
S.W.I ~. .A. 8.: Much would depend on your instruc-
tions to solicitor. An indorsement “without recourse”
would certainly not fulfil the ordinary condition of
supporting the note by the indorsement of a person
who would accept liability in event of drawer fail-
ing to meet it....J.F. and L.T.: Money in the
hands of public officers is not liable to be attached.
.. . .C.S.F.: “The N.Z. Stamp Collector,” Box 316.
G.P.0., Christchurch (M.L.) ; monthly, 3d lv.N.:
The line is the opening one of Ogilvie’s “The Aus-
tralian” L.G.A.: Abram Louis Buvelot was a
Swiss painter, who, after spending some years in
South America, settled in Vic. in 1865, and began
to paint landscapes. Three of his works are in the
Vic. National Gallery... .T.J.: The great blood-
sucking bat (Macroderma ffigas) is found only su
the Wilson’s River district of Central Q. It belongs
to a genus widely distributed in Asia and Africa,
the members of which feed not on insects alone,
but on smaller bats, other small mammals and other
vertebrates R.T.: The reigning king of Afghan-
istan is Nadir Khan, who became ruler in October,-
1929, after a successful campaign against Habi-
bullah Ghazi, who had assumed power on the abdi-
cation of King Amanullah L.F.: Miketymulga is
an abo. word meaning “trees struck by lightning.”
. ...p.A.: Give us an idea of what you want in
the way of design and size, and we’ll get an artist
to quote a price W. 8.: See the Secretary,
Federated Clerks’ Union, Park House, corner Piti
and Park Streets. Sydney.... (Many others mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
“CATTLE CAMP” WAS AWARDED A PRIZE OF £lOO IN THE LATEST “BULLETIN” NOVEL COMPETITION.
By J. J.HARDIE
CHAPTER XXIII.
KILM AR-R-R-RNOCK! ”
The cracked voice of the aged
porter struggled for supremacy with
the hissing steam and the dreary whistle
of the wind.
Ken turned the corner of his British warm
up over his ears, and stepped out of the
comparative warmth of the train. The Vic-
toria leave-train reception was in progress
again, but on a smaller scale. Thank good-
ness, he had no relations to organist a
public demonstration for him! He made
a beeline for the subway.
A lithe figure with flying skirts shot up
the stairway and paused, out of breath, eyes
rapidly scanning the dispersing passengers.
Then she spied the tall, muffled form
coming towards her, and darted forward like
a swallow.
The long strides quickened a trifle as
Ken recognised the girl.
“Ailsa!”
The glad look in the grey eyes was echoed
in the voice. Flushed and breathless, she
gripped the out-stretched hands, shining
eyes laughing eagerly up at the tanned face.
“Oh, I thought I had missed the train I”
She panted a little, nestling close to the
rough serge. “Aren’t you going to kiss
me, Ken?”
The man swept a quick, self-conscious
glance around. Kissing seemed to be the
correct thing. His smile deepened. Then
a pair of arms flew round his neck—soft,
warm lips met and held his in a long, fierce
embrace.
They broke apart, the man still a little
self-conscious and breathing heavily, as if
he too had been running up a steep flight
of stairs. With a nervous laugh he turned,
and Ailsa, her face seraphic, slipped a hand
through his arm and moved off beside him.
Ken felt inwardly relieved and strangely
happy. He had expected a change—awk-
ward references to lan—but this was the old
Ailsa, a little thinner perhaps, but the same
restless bundle of happiness. She chattered
on with a hang-the-past-a.nd-the-future sort
of air, and Ken found himself joining in her
vivacious laughter, without fully realising
the change in himself.
Mr. and Mrs. Cameron rose to meet them
from the comfortable fireside. Ken took
the elder woman’s warm, welcoming hands
in his. In his steadfast gaze was something
he wished to say—and couldn’t. But the
woman understood.
“I’m very, very glad to see you, Ken.”
Her voice trembled a little.
The tall form bent impulsively and kissed
the soft, rosy cheek of the motherly woman,
then turned quickly away to take the out-
stretched hand of his host in a grip that
betrayed the turmoil of his feelings, and
almost reduced the solicitor’s hand to pulp.
Ailsa did all the talking. Her happy,
laughing chatter flowed unbroken, and the
three, under cover of it, sorted out their
emotions, and blessed the girl.
“How long have you got, Ken?” She
broke off in the middle of a dissertation on
nothing in particular to throw the question
at him.
“Five days!”
“Heavens! Is that all!”
He leaned comfortably back, his pipe
well alight, and met the girl’s dismay with
his quiet smile.
“The K.C.’s are all claiming Scotch ances-
try these days. Even Morkel, a big Boer
who speaks a little more English than I
do Dutch, owns an address in Aberdeen,
since he discovered that men going to Scot-
land get an extra day’s leave.”
“How on earth did you manage to drag
yourself away from London?” Ailsa teased
him. “From what I’ve heard, soldiers
arrive there full of good intentions, and it
takes the military police or a surgical opera-
tion to get them out of it.”
“Half the population of London wear
Sam Brownes these days,” Ken volunteered
drily. I reckoned if I had to spend my
leave saluting officers, I would have house-
maid’s knee in the elbow in a couple of
days. I stayed just long enough to have a
real meai, a bath and everything the barber
could give me—then I took a chance.”
“Hoav?” Ailsa’s demand was imperious
and insistent.
“We-ell—l inflicted myself on you
once”
“Ken! You absolute wretch!” The two
old people exchanged smiling glances as
Ailsa placed herself in front of Ken and
lectured him at length.
“And I’ll second most of it,” added her
father. “Nothing will please us better if
you’ll consider this your home, Ken. You’ll
want to make the most of your few days,
and the house is yours to come and go as
you like.”
Ken stretched his long legs comfortably to
the blaze, and the lazy, blue pipe-smoke
testified to his feelings. He felt ineffably,
drowsily comfortable. Ailsa was curled up
in the opposite chair. She had discarded the
V.A.D. uniform for what she termed
“clothes,” and the warm brown of hex-
frock matched the deeper tints of hex-
auburn hair.
Since Mr. and Mrs. Cameron had retired,
the two had maintained a dreamy, unbroken
silence, each busy with the thoughts that
crowded in.
Outside the wind had increased to gale
force. Windows rattled incessantly, and
the chimney moaned ominously.
“Tired, Ken?”
“No! I’m so comfortable that I can
hardly believe this is true.”
“Poor old thing!” The girl slipped to
her feet and settled on a low stool beside the
man, resting her head lightly against his knee.
Ken’s fingers strayed caressingly through
the soft, luxuriant hair. “Do you mind?”
“Mind!” Her voice was low and dreamy.
“I’d like you to do it for ever and ever.”
A slim hand made a few quick, mysterious
passes; a toss of the head, and the luxuriant
tresses tumbled in sweet disarray, spread-
ing over his knees and concealing the girl’s
face. “A-ah!” She breathed a deep sigh of
relief. “Now I feel better!”
“Had a bad time lately, Ken?”
“No use complaining! We’re all in the
same boat over there.” His voice was slow
and measured. “You don’t mind the cold
when you have a comfortable home and
plenty to eat and a big fire to sit by. I
could laugh at that wind outside if I could
only forget the chaps who have to be out
in it.”
The girl sat silent and motionless for a
while. When she spoke her voice was sub-
dued. “It’s a good thing we don’t fully
realise the hardships you have to put up
with. It’s—it’s hard enough as it is. I
often wish I could share them with you. It
would at least keep me from thinking. It
has been so hard, Ken. Especially—since
lan went.”
The man’s face grew grave at this, the
first direct reference to Scotty.
Ailsa went on speaking, in a tense voice,
impelled by her pent-up emotion.
“What will be the end of it all, Ken?
Will it go on till all the men are killed or
crippled? And then—what? When I see
You remember “Paradise Plumes,” the fine serial by M. G. Turnbull,
which “The Bulletin” published something over a year ago? Readers told
us that, besides being an enthralling story, it contained the best word-pictures
of Papua ever made.
Mr. Turnbull is extraordinarily well equipped for his task. For many
years he has been the Government Architect of Papua. He knows every
part of the Possession. He has made a lifelong study of the native and
especially the native of the tropics; he began it years before he came to Papua.
His descriptive pen is equal to that of any storywriter in Australia, and
nobody has had such opportunities to know Papua. In “Alien Corn” he has
combined all his fine qualities. You have a story which grips and a pen
which delights.
The opening instalment will be printed in "The Bulletin” on September 23.
the hundreds of wounded arriving at the
hospital—when I think of the thousands
who never reach it! Ken, it makes me
feel desperate!”
The man gazed wonderingly at the girl
at his feet. Her face was averted, but he
felt the soft body at his knees vibrate with
the intensity of her emotion,
“What’s going to happen to us after-
wards? To the surplus women—the thou-
sands—no, millions of us? Are we to sit
meekly by suppressing ourselves, while the
lucky few get the men? It can’t be done!
We were sent into this world for a pur-
pose and Nature won’t allow us to submit
meekly. What will be the outcome?”
The man’s level voice broke in on her
outburst. “Ailsa, are you trying to tell me
that you will be left on the shelf?”
The bent head nodded with a despairing
movement. “Before the war, men used to
make a great fuss over a girl. Look at
things now! You’ll find a dozen girls after
a man—a man whom some of these girts
wouldn’t recognise once upon a time. And
things are getting worse every day. Its
not fair! They’ll have to allow a man two
or three wives.”
“How would you like to be No. 3?” he
queried.
“Far better than being No. 0!” she
retorted quickly,
“Do you want me to believe that you
would need to chase after any man?”
The soft hand imprisoned his big one and
pressed the roughened palm against the soft,
hot cheek, before her low voice answered!
“I’m afraid I will, Ken!”
All next day the gale increased m force,
Ailsa, muffled to the eyes, clung laughingly
to Ken’s arm as they fought their way out
on a shopping expedition. Foodstuffs were
strictly rationed by this time, and Ken
found his collection of meat-tickets, which
he had regarded a.s a huge joke, to be a
highly-prized medium without which the
purchasing power of money was limited,
They returned glowing with the buffet-
ing of the wind and rain, and settled at the
fireside for the remainder of the day.
Ken, lounging comfortably, pipe stuck
lazily in the comer of the firm mouth,
looked across at the girl through half-
closed eyelids.
“Thank the Lord I didn’t join the Navy!”
In front of the fire in his own room, he
puffed leisurely at a bedtime pipe and let
his thoughts run wild. Outside in the
blackness beyond the windows the gale
shrieked and moaned incessantly, rocking
the solid old house to its foundations. The
branch of a tree grated to and fro on the
roof.
“A great night!” he mused, stretching
comfortably. He smiled to himself as he
recalled Ailsa’s anxious questions. Fancy
comparing this to a cheerless hotel room,
or to the constant coming and going that is
London. The only pastimes—whisky and
women! Blighty leave signified to the
majority a hectic, limited space of time,
crammed to the utmost second with every
available sensation. Life was short—too
short! You were here to-day, and gone
to-morrow. The soldier of to-day lived
a tabloid life. He might be suddenly
snatched off this earth before he had com-
pleted a half—even a third—of the allotted
span. Young men grew old in experience,
beyond their grandfathers, in a short space.
What then, but—“gather ye rosebuds while
ye may!” The newspaper statisticians put
the average life of a man at the front at
three weeks. Right! Make the most of
life while you have it! Eat, drink and be
merry, for to-morrow the leave-train goes
back.
And the women had caught the infec-
tion, had joined eagerly in the mad chase,
and, as the sex has always done when the
barriers are down, passed mere man and
led the way.
He thought of Darrell, De Vauban, Cross-
ley and Harding, the K.C.’s who had
crossed with him. Wanderers, mostly, to
whom home signified a sunbaked patio or
shady stoep; to others, whereve» their hat
might be. London would see the beginning
and end of their leave Everything that
they had craved and had been denied over
there would be theirs to excess. Unlimited
booze! Women! 'lhere was the keynote
of nearly eveiy mans leave. Women—
leave, the two were synonymous. England
■was a pair oi inviting arms waiting to press
the soldier to its breast. Sometimes the
arms were a mothers; or the glad, encom-
passing arms of a wife; or kiddies’; or a
sweethearts, determined to give her man
a good time. No one need be friendless,
anyway, or lonely, when thousands of pairs
of arms appealed-for love, or money or
rr ' x
the man stirred restlessly. Was he wast-
mg his time m this quiet place? Would he
return to France satisfied, physically sati-
ated, with that spirit of benediction—feel-
mg that if this were the last- time, there
were no complaints that life had been
squeezed dry ?
He rose and stood with his back to the
fire, drawing vindictively at his pipe, then
threw himself into the chair again. It was
easier to think there!
Would he be satisfied if this were his last
leave? Was he really happier here than
tearing around London, half-tight by day,
and spending his nights in some woman’s
arms?
His head moved slowly from side to side.
No! Somehow or other that had lost its
appeal. A sequence of faces floated past
like the ghostly kings of Macbeth. Of
them all two stood out bravely, vieing
for premier place. Ailsa’s deep, warm,
velvet eyes glowed warmly from the beauti-
ful, desirable face, striving to place itself
between the man and a pair of level, brown
eyes gazing steadfastly from under rippling
brown hair.
Margaret!
He caught his breath sharply as he per-
mitted himself a fleeting glimpse of her,
then jerked to his feet and knocked out his
pipe with a gesture of finality.
As he lay in bed watching the firelight
throw weird patterns on the ceiling, he
found his mind reverting to the question:
“Did life hold out any further inducement
to him?” Back in the old days that seemed
another existence, he had been happy. Alan
Gordon, Dusty Rhodes, Scotty —poor old
Scotty! He had been happy —a man
amongst men! Then Margaret had come
and gone, and with her going his vaunted
peace of mind had departed.
He had welcomed the war with grim
satisfaction. After twenty months of it he
still lived, but life held a changed aspect
to these old days. He had seen men wel-
come death as a long-awaited release; he
had seen them hopelessly maimed, strug-
gling desperately to hold on to life—the
supreme gift! He had sensed the magni-
tude of it, and his changed standard ol
values had altered his mental aspect. What
was it that made life seem so dear to these
dying men? Was it the sense of injustice at
being robbed of their due? No! dhat
wasn’t it. What then? Was it what they
were leaving—their mothers, their wives,
sweethearts?
Women again! Women seemed to be the
answer to every problem.
Into his consciousness floated the regular
features of Ailsa wearing that enigmatic
smile of to-night. He felt a warm glow
at the recollection. Enthusiastically lie
murmured “She’s a bonzer kid!” He could
not think of her without that warm, en-
veloping feeling creeping over him.
Suddenly the thought struck him: “Sup-
posing he were killed next! How would
Ailsa feel about it?” A rush of unnoticed
details surged over him. At first he had
put it down to hero-worship on the part ot
the girl; it would wear off.
But had it? The warm flush raised an
inward thrill.
Did she really mean all that? He recalled
her kiss on that last night—how long ago.’
—and tingled at the memory. Was she—was
it possible—that Ailsa cared for him, cared
above the average? Good God! He sat
up suddenly in bed with the shock.
The debate raged within him, and he
found himself pleasurably contemplating the
argument for the affirmative. The lissom,
happy girl with the deep violet eyes, those
few faint freckles dusted bev/itchingly
across the nose.
Last night’s conversation flashed on him
with startling significance. What did Ailsa
mean? He paused, rigid and breathless, as
the new idea expanded slowly within him.
What if he married Ailsa!
Immediately he demanded: “But if she
does love me, do I love her?”
A vague stirring in the dim recesses of
his mind halted the reply. Ailsa’s golden
aureole seemed to grow dark; the laughing
eyes gave way to a pair of steadfast brown
orbs, neither pleading nor yet reproachful.
The man sank slowly back on the pillow,
and lav motionless.
Sleep claimed him at last—a sleep inter-
woven with a fantastic merry-go-round ol
dream-faces. Margaret mounted on Eagle-
hawk, galloping like the wind, her long
stockwhip curling out, in pursuit of a danc-
ing, auburn-haired figure that appeared and
disappeared laughing through the mirage.
He turned restlessly, muttering in his sleep.
A slim, lightly-clad figure released the
door-knob and clutched her throbbing
throat. The ‘sleeper breathed evenly again.
Noiselessly the form moved towards tin
dying fire with quick, nervous steps, and
the broad forehead pressed hard on the
cold mantelpiece, while the hands clenched
feverishly against the wild, throbbing heart.
With an impulsive movement one hand
thrust the loose hair back from her eyes
and the girl turned her head towards the
sleeper. Cautiously, one step at a time,
she approached the bedside. The slim
form, shivering uncontrollably, hesitated,
then bent over the dim face on the pillow.
A trembling hand crept out and paused
timidly above the short, cropped hair.
The kaleidoscope had changed again. Hr
was crawling through the black desolation
of No Man’s Land, towards a gaping shell-
hole whence rose a pale, serene face-
Margaret! The quiet, confident smile woke
something deep within him, calling him on.
Swiftly he thrust his way through the crazy
tangle of wire; then a cold chill halted him.
Paralysed, dumb, his horrified eyes followed
a grotesque, crab-like figure worming it-
silent, uncanny way towards the shellhole
from the opposite side —closer and closer,
relentless as doom, to within easy striking
distance. Petrified, immobile, he saw a
hand move silently over the shoukler; the
long knife flickered out and poised for the
deadlv throw. Then the thrower’s head
lifted slowly—the horrified watcher gasped.
The chestnut hair, the clear-cut features
deep violet eyes!
Convulsively he threw himself forward,
shouting as he went: “Ailsa!”
He grappled with the figure, felt the
contact with a soft, yielding form, slender,
clinging arms fastened round him bearing
him backwards, the perfume in his nostrils
was intoxicating, a fragrant shower of hair
blinded his eyes threatening to suffocate
him in its folds.
Dimly, his bewildered senses caught the
pleading, sobbing whisper close to his ear.
“Ken! Please, don’t send me away—l’m
so lonely! I couldn’t stand it any longer.
Ken!—darling!” „ . . .
His brain was aflame, refusing to function.
His will power, caught asleep, was over-
whelmed with the fire that surged through
him The strong arms tightened fiercely
round the warm, yielding form, the sod


The Union Bank of
Australia, Limited
Balance Sheet, 28th February, 1931
LIABILITIES.
Capital autho-
rised ..£12,000,000 0 0
Capital issued £12,000,000 0 0
Less: Reserve
L i a b ilities
thereon .. 8,000,000 0 0
Paid up. . £4,000,000 0 4
Reserve fund 4,850,000 0 0
Less: Allo-
cation to
Special
R e s e rve
against de-
preciation
in Aus-
tralian and
New Zea-
land cur-
rencies .. 1,500,000 0 0
£3,350,000 0 0
Currency Re-
s e r v e—a s
above . . 1,500,000 0 0
Balance of un-
divided profits 170,010 6 1
£9,020,010 6 1
Circulation .. £544,040 10 0
Deposits . . 33,184,412 18 9
Bills payable
a n d other
Liabilities.. 1,451,091 6 5
• £35,179,544 15 2
£44,199,555 1 3
ASSETS
Specie on hand and Cash Balances £7,902,777 S 9
'Bullion and Advances on Bullion. . 92,825 15 11
] Money at Call and Short Notice in
5 London .. . . . . .. 440,000 0 0
Investments: —
! On account of Reserve Fund: —
j British Gov-
! ernment
Securities .. £1,000,000 0 0
j Other Investments—
. British Gov-
I ernment,
j Common-
vvealth o f
j Australia
G o vernnient
and N e w
j Zealand
j Muni cipa'l
j Securities .. 1,407,597 810
£2,407,597 8 10
| Balance of Remittances and drafts
j in transit, and Bills receivable
j at London office .. • ■ 2,043,528 14 11
j £12,886,724 S 5
j Bills Discounted, Loans and other
■ Securities at the Branches and
j in London .. . . . . 30,980,304 6 5
(After making provision for bad and doubtful
debts and contingencies.)
| Bank Premises in Australia and
New Zealand at Cost, less
amounts written off . . . . 280,600 0 0
London Lease*
h o 1 d Pre-
mises at Cost £142,304 19 4
Less: Reserves
against same
and accrued
Interest .. 46,378 12 11
_- 95,926 6 5
£44,199,555 1 3
LONDON, 7th July, 1931.
STATEMENT OF PROFITS
Balance of Undivided Profits on 28tli February, 1930 .. .. ... .. .. .. £336,991 11 5
Less: Dividend, July, 1930 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 250,000 0 0
Leaving a Balance of ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . £86,991 11 5
Profits of the past Year, after making provision in respect of Bad and
Doubtful Debts, and other Contingencies, and after having provided
for Currency Depreciation from Reserve Fund . . . . . . .. £1,239,552 1 2
Less:
Salaries and Allowances to the Australian and
New Zealand Staff £527,988 18 1
General Expenses in Australia and New Zealand —
including Rent, Taxes, Stationery, etc. . . 294,963 8 9
Directors’ Fees and Income Tax paid thereon . . 12,518 7 0
Salaries of London Office Staff, Audit Fee, Rent
Taxes, Stationery, and General Expenses . . 55,967 6 5
Income Tax ~ .. .. . . . . . . 65,095 6 3
956,533 6 6
v 283,018 14 8
£370,010 6 1
Less: Interim Dividend, January, 1931 .. .. .. .. •• • £200,000 0 0
Balance of Undivided Profits at this date
..£170,010 6 1
E. W. PARKER
HUGH FLOWER
A. MAXWELL
Directors.
W. A. LAIN(Gr, iJanager,
S. F. GARDNER, Accountant
AUDITORS’ REPORT
In accordance with the provisions oi' Section 134 of the Companies Act 1929 we report
to the members as follows:
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books at Head Office and
have had access to the Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office from Australia
and New Zealand. We have verified the correctness of the Cash, Money at Call and
i Short Notice, Investments and the Bills of Exchange held in London, and having
obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of opinion that
such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the
state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the
explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company and the said
Branch Accounts.
London, 7th July, 1931. WHINNEY. SMITH & WHINNEY, Auditors.
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT.
General Manager for Australasia W. A. LEITCH, Esq.
Head Office in Australia • • Melbourne
Manager at Sydney (corner Pitt and Hunter Streets), G. V. OLDHAM, Esq.
curves seemed to melt against him. Hun-
grily his mouth quested through the maze
of flowing, hair to reach the warm, eager
lips lifted to meet him.
CHAPTER XXIV.
Ken was glad when breakfast was over.
He felt shamefaced, uncomfortable. His
hostess threw a motherly glance over the
teapot. “What a wild night it was! Did
you sleep well, Ken?”
He summoned up a ghost of a smile. “It
didn’t keep me awake, Mrs. Cameron.”
Ailsa amazed him. This morning she
excelled herself, sparkling with gay, inconse-
quential nonsense. Before Ken had time to
light his pipe she pounced on him.
“Get your things on!” she commanded.
“We’re going for a walk—l don’t care if it
snows ink!”
With an alacrity that betrayed his relief,
he bundled into his overcoat and waited till
Ailsa came flying downstairs—three steps at
a time—to land, glowing, in his arms at the
bottom.
Clear of the house, they walked in a
happy, intimate silence, clinging arm in
arm, her small warm hand tucked in his
brown fist, till the last outlying houses
were left behind. The wind rushed at them,
and speech was almost impossible. He
pointed to a couple of haystacks a little
distance off the road.
“Think we can get across there?”
She nodded vigorously and led the way.
As they turned into the lee of the stack
the wind seemed to shut off in an instant,
and the sudden relaxation brought them
face to face.
The girl moved close, gripping the lapels
of his coat, her dancing eyes looking up
into the quiet, serious face of the man.
“Very angry with me, Ken?” she whis-
pered.
The grey eyes searched the radiant, plead-
ing face, and gradually softened. He drew
the slender form to him, and two pairs
of lips met long and tenderly.
“Ailsa!”
“Yes?”
“When can we get married?”
“Mamed—Ken?”
The man nodded smilingly into the wide-
open eyes shining with a wonderful light.
She gave a happy little gasp, and buried
her face against the rough serge of his
shoulder.
“Then you don’t think I’m so—so awful?”
His arm tightened round the girl, and he
laughed happily. “I do! That’s why I
want you to marry me!”
After a long pause, she raised a flushed,
happy face. “Ken, darling!” she whispered.
“I’m—l’m so happy I could cry!”
He picked her up in his arms and they
nestled together on an upturned trough,
with their backs to the sheltering stack.
“Now t , then, Miss, are you going to
answer my question?”
The delicate features assumed a blank,
innocent expression. “Question? Did you
ask me a question, Mr. Craig?” She broke
off with a happy gurgle. Then, “Ailsa—
Craig!” she whispered. “It sounds.—oh,
far too good to be true!” She looked
shyly into the grey eyes. “Remember that
day on the beach at Troon —the sun shining
like a golden pathway across the sea, with
Ailsa Craig at the end of it! Ken, I
didn’t dare hope, but I wished and wished
that some day it might come true.”
Her adoring eyes met his in happy sur-
render, and he crushed her soft fragrance
eagerly to him. “Ailsa!”
From the depths of his overcoat a
happy, dreaming voice murmured. “Yes,
Ken!”
“Can we get married to-day?”
The girl sat bolt upright.
“To-day! Good heavens, no!”
The tanned face wore a puzzled look.
“I thought we could fix it right away,” he
said slowly; “I’ve only got three more days.”
“Ken, do ymu realise you have never
asked me a very important question?”
The man looked perplexed. “Haven’t I?
I know your name—and your age—and
your religion—not that they matter.”
She smiled softly. “Ken, do you really
love me?”
“Love you?” She felt herself seized in
a fierce, bearlike grip. “Love you, Ailsa?
Do you think I could marry a girl I didn’t
love?”
She yielded joyously to the intensity of
the strong embrace, whispering naively:
“There are some things a girl does like to
know, Ken!”
Three days passed in one wild, joyous
rush, and the end came suddenly like the
quick descent of the guillotine. A quick
severing of the golden dream. Remained
the bare, grey reality of life, as ordained
by the War Lords, rendered greyer by the
wrenched, aching heart-strings.
Ken, huddled in a corner of the railway
carriage, stared unseeingly at the landscape
flying past, as he tried to sort out his
thoughts—to strike a balance after the
hectic life of the last few days.
The house had seen little of them during
the daytime. Trips to Glasgow; a matinee;
for preference, the dim sanctuary of a
picture-theatre. Golden days! Wonderful
nights! He felt dazed. Ailsa had taken
complete command—how he could not yet
tell, but he found himself coerced into doing
just what he had resolved not to do.
He was returning to France a single man
—not even engaged; at least not publicly.
In Glasgow he had insisted on buying
Ailsa a ring, which she wore shyly till
returning in the train that night; but only
Glasgow saw the diamonds on her finger.
During the months that followed, Ken
solved what had always been a mystery to
him. He found himself replying to AiIsa’s
glowing letters without a thought as to
“news.” She complained that he never
told her anything about himself, but he
replied facetiously that the censor mightn’t
like it.
The months dragged past like a broken-
backed snake—months packed with move-
ment. The King’s Colonials at last real-
ised their ambition of going over the top
as cavalry. One cold day an infantry
raiding party found a deserted German
trench in front of them; and, beyond that'
again, no sign of the enemy. Suspiciously j
at first, then with wild exhilaration at
their liberation from the cramped trenches,j
men swarmed across the deserted front,
and were rallied with difficulty, to await
definite orders for the next move.
Within a few hours the scattered troopers
of the King’s Colonials were pouring in
from innumerable outposts. At the first
streak of dawn they led their horses across
a winding track through the maze of wire
and shellholes in front of the splintered
wood of St. Pierre Vaast. On firm ground,
where the thick, German field-telephone
wires still swung low, they formed up, then
forward into the blue.
All that spring and summer of 1917 they
followed their corps up and down the front I
from the Somme to Arras, Messines, and the '
bottomless bog of Passchendaele. Then they
found themselves suddenly withdrawn from
the war zone, and rumor worked overtime.
Even the officers knew nothing official. In
the meantime they manoeuvred on the fiat
sands of Wimereux, and wondered what
would be the next move.
Then the blow fell. The regiment watered 1
its horses for the last time, and saw with
mixed feelings the long string of trucks
draw swiftly southward to Marseilles. Wild i
rumor raised men from deep despondency
to the pitch of excitement, then rudely cast
them back again.
Ken, meeting Captain King one evening,
decided to try to discover something defi-
nite, but the lean squadron-leader shook his
head: “Can’t tell you a single thing, Craig,
because I don’t know. Even the Colonel
seems to be in the dark about our future
movements.”
“Any truth in the rumor that we’re going j
to be disbanded?” queried Ken..
“Don’t know, but I hope not.” The alert
figure with the string of ribbons on his,
breast glanced keenly over the man. “Ever
think of taking a commission, Craig?”
“No, sir—I would rather stay with the
mob.”
“Quite agree with you; but supposing
anything should happen to us. You could
always get your papers held up till you
were certain. Think it over. M,ind you, I
know nothing, but that’s my advice. If
you care to take it, see me in the morning
and I’ll take you before the Colonel.”
A mystified regiment piled into waiting
trains, and rumor went mad. They were
going to Italy—to Palestine—to Russia.
Instead, the train pulled up alongside a
wharf, and they filed silently on to the
waiting steamer.
They found themselves in a vast collec-
tion of huts. A few English n.c.o.’s ran
hither and thither. They never seemed to
walk, and they halted with a click and
saluted on the slightest provocation.
Sergeant Jackson beckoned to a waiting
corporal. “Say, where the hell are we?”
“You’re in the training camp of the Tank
Corps.”
“What’s the chance of leave?” a voice
demanded.
“You’ll get leave after you’ve been back
in France a while!”
Ken presented himself at Captain King’s
quarters while that gentleman was still in
his bath.
“Hullo, Craig!” He grinned ruefully as he
massaged a hairy chest with the towel. “I’ll
bet a museum to a mousetrap I know whal
you want!”
“Do you think you could push that com-
mission through, sir?”
“Don’t like the tank idea, eh?”
Ken shook his head sadly.
(To be concluded next week.)
The Mountain Gods.
Favored by the high gods
Am I to be here,
Walking west of the mountains
In the spring o’ the year.
Blessed by wind and weather,
Free of roof and wall,
Lone I go a-roving
With not a care at all.
While o’er hill arid lowland
Birds a-many sing,
Were I but a singer
’Tis a gay song I’d sing.
Could I match the rich notes'
That the birds upraise,
Song would I be lifting
To the high gods in praise.
Heedless of Time’s passage.
As alone I fare.
Measures deep I’m quailing
Of the winelike air.
As each tree about me
Sways, wind-stirred, and nods,
Muted thanks I’m giving
To the kind mountain gods.
Favored by them surely
Am I to be here,
Walking towards the sunset
In the spring o’ the year.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


SPORTINO
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The controllers of koine of the Sydney
suburban racecourses have frugal minds.
The Canterbury Park Club offered a whole
£350 for its six-furlongs w.f.a. race on
Saturday. The Memsie Stakes at Caulfield
was worth £BOO, and the Williamstown
people had put up £5OO for their Underwood
Stakes. So Canterbury Park saw no Phar
Lap or Ammon Ra. Holdfast was recognised
as the speediest of the seven saddled up for
the Canterbury Stakes —he Avon it last year
—but it had rained most of Thursday and
Friday, and he shaped miserably in his only
essay (it was in his two-year-old days) on
a heavy track; moreover, he had died on
liis run at Roseliill, and again at Warwick
Farm. So, although lie looked noticeably
better for these gallops, and although times
indicated that the track was drying fast, 5
to 2 could be got, although the closing price
was 9 to 4. There was quite as much money
for Gesture (3 to 1), and a lot for Gold
Digger (4 to 1), who w r as backed on his
second to Veilmond in the Three- and Four-
year-old Handicap at Roseliill.
Holdfast had the easiest win of the day.
Gold Digger tried to'go with him for a few
furlongs, but the favorite shook the three-
year-old off the moment Webster called on
him, and was easing up at the finish, four
lengths ahead of Gesture, who was hard put
to it to thrust her head in front of Casque
d’Or —still not quite ready. Gold Digger
was fourth, but he had little to spare from
Suntan (probably the better of the pair)
and Cathmar. The time was quite good—
lmiu. 14:[sec. Holdfast has 9st. 21b. in the
Epsom. With Sst. 71b. he ran a sterling-
second to Cathmar last year, after making
the pace with and taking all the go out of
Mollison, and at five years he ought to be
at his best.
“Too big” was the hasty verdict on Con-
centrate, topweight for the September Han-
dicap, and one of the outsiders (tens could
Bert: ‘Dust room f=or two, Gert''
Gert: "Want a passenger?’’
6ert :"You'r& * thought reader 1 "
Geqt ‘."Good ! Take Ponso por
a. Rtoe "
always be got) of the field of eight. He
wasn’t too big, as he proved by challenging
Boulton (5 to 1) for the lead at the bottom
uf the straight and beating him by half a
head after a desperate finish, in which neither
faltered. Sackbut. the favorite, w T as two
lengths away, third, and behind him, strung
out and well beaten, were Bosmina, Dreamdale
and Mina G. All three had been earning their
oats in suburban company, so Canterbury
form was pretty good, nor should Soulton’s
showing be forgotten in dwelling on that
of Concentrate—the Queenslander should
pick up a race presently. Concentrate has
Sst. 121 b. in the Metrop., in which he has
twice been fourth. He is a genuine stayer,
and there are not many about.
Potent (7 to 4) atoned for a costly failure
at Warwick Farm by capturing the Campsie
Handicap, but Jimmy Munro had to ride
him out to defeat the erratic Lord Ivenna-
quhair. Imperialist, the third horse, ran
a capital race in adverse circumstances, being
last of 12 when they had gone half the
journey—nine furlongs.
Chatham has had a cold and is an unlikely
starter at Randwick next Saturday. It will
be a pity if Foulsham should be unable to
get him to the post fit for the A. J.C. Derby;
of course, there is time enough for him to
be at his top yet. Fancies for Tatt.’s meet-
ing :
Novice Handicap: Khartoum; next,
Imperialist.
Tramway Handicap: Sun Eagle; next,
Pentheus.
Chelmsford Stakes: In the absence of
Chatham, Johnnie Jason; next, Ammon Ra.
Spring Handicap: Spearman; next, Le
Legion.
Welter Handicap: Burracootboo; next,
Weotara.
Phar Lap gave further evidence of com-
plete recovery from his autumn indisposi-
tion by capturing the Memsie Stakes at
Caulfield. As at Williamstown, he was
opposed by Waterline, Wise Force. Ronda-
lina and Glare, with Semitist taking the
place of Mulcra in a field of six. Rondalina,
a beautiful little filly by Beau Fils, is prov-
ing of immense service to Phar Lap as a
pacemaker. She gave Wise Force several
lengths’ start in the first furlong, caught the
Queenslander, and had him in difficulties
when Phar Lap made a leisurely appearance
on the scene as they headed for home. From
that stage it was a case of “pay out,” as Jim
Pike did not have to ask his mount for a
real effort to win by 34 lengths from his
stable-mate. Phar Lap was at 6 to 1 on
with the bookmakers,-but liis tote supporters
for a win only got their money back.
Before the Memsie Stakes, Adam Skirv-
ing stated that the question of wdiether
Waterline would be taken to Sydney or not
depended on how “S. A. Rawdon’s” ueddy
shaped. Waterline had suffered from a
sudden attack of soreness in the shoulder
muscles at Williamstown, where he missed
a place. On his return to Dandenong a
strong liniment was rubbed into the affected
part and hot blankets applied. This raised
a slight blister, but seems to have been effi-
cacious. Waterline lost a little time in find-
ing his legs on Saturday, but unwound a
nice run near the home turn. After pass-
ing the leaders Phar Lap hung in, and this
resulted in Waterline being disappointed
when he tried to get through on the rails;
he was unlucky not to beat Rondalina for
second place. His improvement in form
was so marked that the Sydney visit is
almost sure to be undertaken.
Telford has made a tardy discovery of
the galloping merits of Rondalina. She
came out of her shell by winning a mile event
at Caulfield on August 8. He had nominated
the filly for all the classic three-year-old
races, but did not think her good enough
to enter (at a later period) for the Cups,
a decision which he must now regret. Ron-
dalina came home splendidly after her
exhausting efforts as pacemaker. To be
runner-up to Phar Lap on two succes-
sive occasions was no small achievement.
The earnings of the champion have reached
£52,512, or £4214 ills, more than Amounis
and £9412 more than Gloaming. By com-
parison, the record of Carbine, established
nearly 40 years ago, looks insignificant. “Old
Jack” earned £29,476. No limit can be
placed on what Phar Lap may accumulate.
He has only just turned five years old, and
is as good as ever.
Joe Mulcahy, who led in the Grand
National Hurdle hero, Cockcrow, continues
in the limelight as a trainer. He won the
Doona Trial at Caulfield with Clarity, owned
by Joseph Fell, of the V.A.T.C. committee,
and landed the Whittier Handicap with
Ibrani, who races in the same ownership
as Cockcrow. Whereas Clarity was backed
off the card, Ibrani started at 12 to 1. Ibrani,
a son of Moabite, is engaged in the A.J.C.
Derby, but no doubt Mulcahy will reserve
him for the Caulfield Guineas. He scored
by a length from Parkwood, who was favo-
rite. Parkwood, the crack juvenile of three
seasons ago, is looking as handsome as paint.
He won the Newmarket Handicap last
autumn, and will have to be reckoned with
in approaching races, such as the Toorak
Handicap and Cantala Stakes. Parkwood
never has revealed stamina, and, though
still in the Cups, can hardly have much
chance in them.
Heroic received another stud advertise-
ment when Gordon’s Leap captured a divi-
sion of the Doona Trial, but Gallantie
refused to leave the barrier in the first divi-
sion of the three-year-old event, and Heroic
Prince, heavily backed, with Pike up, for the
next division, finished outside of the money.
Gallantie appears to have inherited the
fractiousness of her sire. The race in which
Heroic Prince figured was won in runaway
style by Glideaway, trained by Cecil Godby,
who was represented in the Whittier Handi-
cap by Knight’s Favor, a gelding that he
holds on lease from E. A. Connolly. Many
spectators imagined that Knight’s. Favor
had gained a place. The Valais gelding has
not long resumed racing, and was unbacked.
He is due for an early win.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Boomerang Hurdle: Isocrates; next, Fir-
meroi.
Budgeree Handicap: Shadow King; next,
Waterline.
* >5 * *
“Fitzroy” : The racing judge who is accused
of placing the- wrong horse is often heard
of, but it is not so often that the growl is
carried any further. Rockhampton (Q.)
furnished an exception the other day when
the judge placed a horse as the winner
which the public thought w T as well and truly
second. The stewards followed, up the
public protest by taking the unusual course
of calling the judge before the committee
and asking for explanations. Remarking with
much truth, that there was only one place
from which the finish of a race could be
judged, that being the judge’s box, the indig-
nant official handed in his resignation, an
example followed by one of the stewards
who supported him.
* * * *
“Gleuelg”: That great institution the
doubles tote continues to gladden the hearts
of punters in South Australia. At the Bala-
klava meeting the other day Last Trick,
winner of the big event, returned a divvy
of £7 17s. for £l. while Triumque. winner
of the Trial Handicap, paid £8 4s. The
double dividend on these two races was £lo<
3s. 9d. for 55.!
* * * *
“Eagle Farm”: Pretty Polly had a more
intimate connection with Australian racing
than that suggested by the Gallinulc—Phar
Lap family tree (B. 26/8/’3l). A son of
the famous mare, Chipilly, raced in Queens-
land with considerable success, and later
sired many winners of Queensland events,
including Sapilly, winner of the treble at
the Rockhampton annual meeting. A grand-
son, Spelthorne, is at the stud in N.S.W. and
is doing fairly well. It should be noted that
some doubts have been cast on Pretty Polly’s
ability to stay, though it sounds heretical
to say so. That great horseman Danny
Maher, who rode her in many of her races,
always held to that opinion, and took the
mount on Bachelor’s Button in preference
in the Ascot Gup, in which that great w.f.a.
performer beat Loder’s mare—her only fail-
ure on Euglish courses.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
In spite of his great pluck, Billy Grime
(9.11) was badly beaten by abo. Alby Roberts
(10.6) at Leichhardt on Friday night.
Roberts floored Grime with a chin-cracking
right and looked like winning in the first
round, but the veteran returned to action
and assimilated some wicked punishment
until a body battery again dropped him as
the eighth ended. Grime refused to capitu-
late, and kept taking ’em up to late in the
tenth, when another right knocked him over.
Roberts was then crowned.
Lightweight Jimmy Kelso is a bugbear to
promising young boxers. He put Fred Lloyd
out. of the business, and at Leichhardt on
Saturday, weighing 9,9£, he gave Kid Rooney
(9.94) such a lacing that the youthful
Chinese-Australian is no longer the prospect
he was. Rooney was second in the scoring
until his left eyebrow was gashed open in
the sixth. The cut bled so badly in the next
round that the slaughter was stopped.
;’c :J:
“Mitt Shover” : There is a chance of Lon-
don seeing a world’s heavyweight champion-
ship, Larry Gains’s manager having signed
articles for a fight with Schmelling.
America will not be too amiably inclined
to letting the mill take place outside
her jurisdiction, but since Schmelling is a
German it is difficult to see where Columbia
comes in. Gains is the Canadian negro who
made such a lamentable mess of the English
pretender to the championship throne, Scott,
not so long ago. Gains also has to his credit
a win over Schmelling some six years ago,
when the German was very raw potatoes.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s Melbourne League football was
intriguing to a degree. Footseray visited
Carlton, and, realising that defeat meant
exclusion from “the four,” played the game of
its life. With the timekeepers watching the
seconds the Blues were leading by 2 points;
then ’Scray heroically worked the ball down
to a waiting forward, who marked. A
straight kick, and ’Scray had won by 4 points,
54 to Carlton’s 50. Game was fast and
keen; 37,000 enjoyed it and the glorious
sunshine. Simultaneously Colling wood was
trying to secure its position by downing St.
Kilda, always a hard proposition on its own
ground. Though the Magpies scored freely
and led once in the last quarter, they failed
against the locals’ particularly fast finish —
128 to Saints’ 142. Richmond beat Hawthorn
by 99 to 43; Geelong downed South Mel-
bourne by 108 to 59; Essendon trounced
Fitzroy by 97 to 80; and Melbourne; scored
123 to North’s 79. Next Saturday’s" games
are the last of the round. Richmond and
Geelong are first and second; Carlton, ’Wood
and ’Scray are equal for the two next places.
The Blues, on their own ground, meet St.
Kilda, and should win; ’Wood, also at home,
encounters Melbourne and should also col-
lect ; ’Scray meets North, which hasn’t won
a game this season, and is practically cer-
tain to win, but it has such a poor average
on points scored for and against tnat it must
kick about 30 goals to North’s one to have a
hope. It doesn’t seem feasible; still the
season has been one of surprises and ’Scray
deserves to get in “the four.” The Tricolors
have battled hard.
* $
A big crowd saw South Sydney and West-
ern Suburbs meet in the final of the N. S.
Wales Rugby League competition at Sydney
Sports Ground to decide which should engage
the minor premiers, Eastern Suburbs, in the
grand final. Though the Westerners had
won in the two previous meetings of the
clubs this season, it was generally expected
South Sydney would prevail on this occasion.
So it proved, the Red and Greens winning in
the hollo west fashion by 17-3 (3 tries, 1 con-
verted, and 3 penalty goals to a try). The
game was fast and clean, and though the
winners got little of the ball from the scrums
their forward work in the stand-up stuff more
than compensated for this. Ben Wearing,
of Souths, one of the best wingers the League
game has seen in N.S.W.. topped three
figures for this year with 102 points. He
retires from the game after this season.
* $ # i]i
The Australian Rugby Unionists in Maori-
land went down for the fourth time on Satur-
day when they met Wellington. The game
started, in dry weather, and the tourists gave
a convincing exhibition of open football to
lead 8-6 at half-time. In the second half a
strong southerly gale with rain and sleet
blew up. Keeping the ball down the
big Wellington forwards ran Over the oppo-
sition in this half, scoring three unconverted
tries and putting their side in the lead by
15 to 8. or 5 tries to 2, one coin verted.
“Nark” : Up to time of writing tip# only win
scored by the Australian Rugby Uiiuon team
in Maoriland has been in a ski The
hero was centre three-quarter Cyril powers,
who was kidded into a beginners’ race I ,at the
sports of the Aorangi Ski Club, held olii Hie
slopes of Mt. Cook, and found himseltXthe
winner, much to his astonishment, as he mad
never worn the wooden-foot contraptions
. before.
(Continued on next page.)
Hubert Opperman, the Victorian cyclist,
won the Paris-Brest-Paris in the record time
of 49hr. 23 Am in. The distance is 750 miles,
and Opperman, who started favorite, is £4OO
richer.
Victorian golfers, who had already won
the Australian open and amateur champion-
ships. took a third scalp last week-end when
Ivo Whitton and Susie Tolhurst won the
mixed foursomes from two other Cabbage
Gardeners in Sloan Morpeth and Mona
McLeod. Cards read 157 and 363 respec-
tively.
“The Gaffer”: Among the welter of sug-
gestions for the well-being of the Australian
team which is to go to the Los Angeles
Olympiad next year comes one good one
from that experienced athlete W. Hunt, who
is at present in America. Hunt strongly
advises that the team take its own cook, so
that it may enjoy the Heshpots to which it
is accustomed in its native land. There is
a, lot in it. One of the chief complaints of
the team that went to Amsterdam was that
the Dutch menus mostly consisted of _ salt
herrings and veal. One cannot forget either
that the Maori footballers ascribed their
defeats in Gaul to French catering, which
did not provide the accustomed delicacies in
which Henare delights, including dried shark
and pipis.
“Backwoodsman” : After a hectic fortnight
Brisbane has settled down to its accustomed
calm, the gathering of bowlers for the
Australian carnival having disnersed without
undue casualties. The Victorians took the
honors, walking off with the,singles and rink
events. The first-named produced a great
struggle, Dobbie, of Victoria, with two against
him, drawing to score a single and take the
match with his last wood from Robertson, of
Maoriland. Dobbie, who is an ex-Queens-
lander. won the title in Melbourne in 192 S
and was runner-up at Launceston last year.
The winning rink, led by B. W. Bleach, who
was supported by his son, won 28-21 from a
Queensland quartette headed by W. L.
Currey. This is the third time in succession
that Victoria has carried off the rinks title.
W. A. H'otchin, one of the victors, was in a
winning Victoran rink as long ago as 1914.
“Altcar”: Wrestler John Pesek, who took
a great fancy to the Australian greyhound
when showing here, has bought a couple
more of the long dogs for coursing in
America. One of the lot he carried away
with him a couple of years ago, Just Auchen,
has proved an outstanding success in the
U.S.A., and his latest purchases are from
the same strain.
* $ * ❖
“Spike”: Most athletes outside the ranks
of tlie heel-and-toe obsession will be glad to
hear that the N.S.W. athletic authorities are
joining up with their mates in other States
and wiping “walking” items off their pre-
grammes. These dreary contests serve
no useful purpose. The weird gait _ which
competitors assume bears no relation to
ordinary walking, but gives the impression oi
a person with St. Vitus’s dance endeavoring
to progress in a species of amble as fast, as
possible without actually running.
“Blade”: The depression has been respon-
sible for some queer economies, but none
more unusual than that which the Bendigo
rowing club intends to put into operation
when it visits Sydney early next year.
Instead of travelling luxuriously by rail or
steamer, the crew will pedal the 500 miles
and back on push-bikes, thus saving much
good money in fares, their boat, of coursi
travelling in the orthodox fashion. The sug-
gester of the bright idea is Arthur Cam-
bridge, winner of the Australian champion
sculls in 1925 and now a coach at Bendigo.
The pilgrims wall travel in easy stages, carry-
ing their own camping and cooking gear, and
living on the country.
“Don Crew”: Veteran oarsman Bill Beach
passed his 81st milestone at Dapto (N.S.Vv.'
on Sunday, and although, it is nearly hat
a century since he surprised the world lb
beating Hanlan, he still looks fit enough to
drag a shell through the water. Beach rowed
seven races for the champioushio title am
won them all. In his first match of an'
importance he was beaten bv Ned lrickeu.
but had his revenge later on. That, was the
beginning of Beach’s wonderful caree .
Between 188 fl and 1887 he defeated Hanlan
three times, T. Clifford once, M . Ross, -
Gaudaur and N. Matterson. Beach drew hm
first breath in Surrey and came to Australia
when three years old.


FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £35.
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 17th September
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 15th October
Christmas Excursion.
Lovely Rarotonga. Another 23 days’ tour
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI” from Sydney, 24th December, 1931.
FIRST CLASS RETURN, £45; SECOND CLASS RETURN, £34
WEEKLY SAILINGS TO N.Z., CALLING AT
AUCKLAND AND WELLINGTON ALTERNATE WEEKS.
For fdrther particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
Tel.: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8393.
39|-
Free of Sales Tax.
6 Volts —11 Plates
Dagenite
FLEET
f N AUSf
O:
Price is now no bar to quality, for in the
Dagenite Fleet Battery you get a reliable
long-service-giving battery at the price
of a cheap one.
Also
12 Volts— 7 Plates
for
65
Free of Sales Tax.
BAfIENITE
BATTERIES
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne
Footbrawl
“Norwood”: Smarting under their double
defeat at the hands of Victoria this season,
South Australian football experts have been
inquiring into the causes contributing. One
prominent critic has come to the conclusion
that the Wheatfielders are far too gentle in
their methods, and do not encourage “the
robust use of weight and strength in accord-
ance with the laws of the game” as their
Victorian cobbers do. It reminds the writer
of a .summing-up delivered by an ardent sup-
porter of a Sydney Rugby League team
when asked to explain the falling-off of his
pets compared with the success of the two
previous seasons. Said he: “It’s all on
account of their tryin’ this fancy football;
as long as they stuck to playin’ the man
and let the ball look after itself they were
all right.”
“li'otham”: The decision of the Victorian
Football League to enforce the registration-of-
players system, which has been honored in
the breach for years, has resulted in a rush
to fill in forms which is reminiscent of a
N.S.W. State Lottery queue. The form binds
players to abide by the League's rules and
regulations, particularly those governing the
matter of transfers to new clubs and the
obtaining of satisfactory clearances from the
old ones, while an additional permit to trans-
fer must also be obtained from the League
itself. Irregular transfers have been giving
the League and clubs no end of trouble during
the past few seasons, and an attempt is being
made to mend matters.
“Stand Off”: Sydney Rugby Union fol-
lowers are puzzled at the composition of the
Australian team in its matches against
Nelson and Wellington. In each case Bryan
Palmer has been placed at five-eighth, with
Cowper, a centre and five-eighth, in Palmer’s
long-accustomed possie on the wing. It
cannot be a cableman’s error, either, for the
rest of the side from Ross onward are shown
as playing in the positions in which we are
accustomed to see them on this side. It is
gratifying to note that Bridle the big Vic-
torian forward, made good in his first game,
scoring Australia’s solitary try against
Nelson and gaining a plade against the for-
midable Wellingtonians.
“Shrewsbury”: The British Soccer season
opened last week with the usual flourish of
trumpets, which was drowned in the howl of
dismay that greeted the defeat of Arsmial,
winners of the League premiership, by West
Bromwich, which took the Association Cup
last season. The tragedy was witnessed by
55 000 people, who saw Arsenal’s £20,000
team succumb to the comparative!" inexpen-
sive crowd from the country by a goal to nil.
Racquet and Bawl
“Semaphore” : In spite of determined Ned
Kelly efforts by Victoria and N.S.W. to grab
the fixture, the Australian tennis heads have
definitely decided to allot the next Austra-
lian championships to Adelaide. It is the
continual plea of the authorities in the two
swollen States that Adelaide is useless as
a money-making proposition, and for the
same reason Brisbane has been persistently
turned down. The improvement in the
standard of tennis in South Australia and
Queensland which must follow exhibitions by
the cream of Australian players and teams
from overseas is invariably ignored by those
with an ear to the jingle of the guinea. The
date of the fixture will depend on the date
of arrival of the Japanese team. Probably it
will be round about Christmas.
“Gate”: Expenditure on the forthcoming
Australian tennis championships is to be
ruthlessly cut. The share of the State asso-
ciation conducting the meeting has been
dropped from 15 per cent, to per cent., with
a jump to 10 per cent, if the show has been
exceptionally successful. Honorary stewards
will supervise proceedings, and expenditure on
wages, printing, advertising and entertain-
ment will be heavily pruned. One suggestion
not yet finalised is that players while travel-
ling should be allowed 10s. a day instead
of the £1 hitherto paid, while it is also
proposed to ask nominated players to pay
their own entrance fees. Suspension of
women’s championships and those for boys
has also been mooted. The State associations
are being circularised to this effect, and their
vote will decide the questions. The nomina-
tion fee innovation at least is a rational
one. In no other game does a player have
his fees paid for him.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Galleryite” : Both the amateur and pro-
fessional championships of Australia were
played on the admirable Kensington greens
last week. Young Williams, who won the
amateur title by 3 and 2, has more and
better strokes than the runner-up, Thompson,
the Bonnie Doon champion. Williams should
be a world-beater inside a year or so. But
lie has the impetuousness of youth; he can’t
play cannily through the fairways. As a
result he produced during the morning round
some of the wildest shots ever seen in a
championship final. The slow, solid Thompson
should have had a great chance, but invari-
ably Williams came to light on the greens as
a putter without nerves, and with a follow-
through that is the poetry of motion. He
wafted the ball into the tin, or laid it dead,
from incredible distances. In the afternoon
he shone in all departments. So did Thomp-
son. But the Melbourne boy usually out-
drove his senior by anything up to 100 yards;
he got phenomenal distances with his irons,
and lie shot straight, which he hadn’t done
in the morning. Add that he never missed
a possible putt, and brought off one or two
that would look impossible to most plus
players, and you have the explanation of his
win. A marvel of technique and nerve and
a stylist.
* * * *
“No. 2”: The only point of resemblance
between the professional and amateur finals
at Kensington was that steady putting won
both. The loser, Bolger, plays better golf
than Spence, of Leura, who won 2 up and
1, but he is temperamental. lie missed
sitter after sitter on the greens in the morn-
ing (one putt that went west couldn’t have
been more than a foot), yet he finished the
round only a stroke worse than Spence, who
bad averaged fours. For the rest, both lads
—and that is what they are, though the
golfing world has been talking of them for
years—displayed typical professional golf:
business-like, careful, though not over-careful,
and conventional as regards their methods
(unlike the amateur champion Williams, who
more than once used a wood to get out of
bad lies in the rough), The onlookers always
knew what to expect. Spence kept out of
trouble for the most part, and Bolger made
some marvellous recovery strokes when he
found trouble. Only on the greens was the
Oatlands champion outclassed.
* * * *
"Divot Digger”: Ivo Whitton’s fifth win
in the Australian open golf championship puts
him in a class by himself. The competition
was begun in 1904. Carnegie Clark, of
N.S.W., has won it three times. Fred Popple-
well and the H'on. Michael Scott, who, though
a Briton, figured in those days as a Victorian,
have each won it twice. Other winners have
been D. G. Soutar (N.SW.), Clyde Pearce
(Tas.), C. Felstead (Vic.), Joe Kirkwood
(Vic-), A. le Fevre (Vic.), C. Campben
(N.S.W.), Tom Howard (N.S.W.), Alec
Bussell (Vic.), Rufus Stewart (S.A.) and
Frank Eyre (N.S.W.). Of the 22 cham-
pionships, N.S.W. and Victoria have won
10 each, and Tasmania and South Australia
one apiece.
“Carnoustie”: Young Jim Ferrier, of
N.S.W.. has early achieved fame. Not so
much by reason of his superlative golf as
because he has been made the hero of a
leading case, as the lawyers say, by the
High Court of Golf sitting at St. Andrew's.
Playing at Bonnie Doon not long ago h
lipped his putt, which hung on the edge of
the cup. With an exuberance which might
have been expected from Colonel Damurize
and other players of the type, James leapt
into the air in exasperation, at the same
time banging his putter on the green, IT
is a weighty lad for his years and the con-
cussion shook the ball into the hole. Ferrier,
like the sportsman he is, told his marker to
record six strokes, though the abortive putt
was only his fifth. The Manly Club, of
which Ferrier is a member, referred the
question to St. Andra’s. That august body
has decided that Ferrier was right in asking
for a six to be recorded against him. though
the rules do not specifically provide for
such a case.
“D.” : A Ryde (Sydney) s.m. decided the
other day that no charge lay against the
finder of a golf ball. “A person,” he ruled,
“is not allowed to dispose of anything
found without first making a reasonable
effort to find the owner, but in the case of
golf balls ‘findings keepings’ applies.” It
will send up the already high cost of golf on
many links. At Moore Park the finding of
balls has developed into an industry. The
discoverers wait behind hills, “heel” (to use
the local term) the balls as they land, and
find them when the owners have moved on.
It goes on in a less organised form at most
of the links round Sydney. All clubs dis-
play notices warning members against buy-
ing from ball-finders, and some have employed
policemen disguised as players to abate the
swindle. In future, if the Ryde magistrate
is right, one who deals with the purloiner
of a 3s. 6d. ball as a shop-owner would with
the purloiner of any other three-ar d-sixpenny
article may be shot in heavy damages.
❖ * ❖ #
“Sandringham”: Many reasons have been
advanced for Ivo Whitton’s astonishing con-
sistency in stroke-play events. The holder
of many titles is inclined to give the credit
to the gutty ball, with which he first began
to play on the old Caulfield links, remarkable
for their bad lies. Absolute accuracy in hit-
ting was essential with the gutty under such
circumstances, the resiliency which so often
lifts a cupped rubber-core ball out of trouble,
even if miss-hit, being lacking in the old-
time pill, which was about as responsive in
such cases as a chunk of blue-metal.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz" : Though the speed limit has been
abolished by most of the American States,
some of them are evidently of the opinion that
further facilities for stepping harder on the
gas should be afforded. The State of Illinois
is now instituting a system of steel roads.
On a special foundation a base of rustless
steel plates will be laid down, and on top
of the steel a brick and bitumen crust. It is
expected that this will be much more durable
and resilient than the ordinary road, and
whereas the average pedestrian is at present
being annihilated by cars travelling at a
speed of 80 m.p.h. or so, he will have the
satisfaction of knowing that on the new roads
he will take the knock at 100 m.p.h. or over.
* * * #
“Nerang” : Touching on Australian beaches
(B. 2/9/'3l), there is at least one east-
coast beach which offers good facilities to
the racing motorist—the 20-mile stretch
from; Southport to Tweed Heads which
is known as the Main Beach. The flat
sands here have been well hammered down by
the Pacific surf, and when tidal conditions
suit the going is first-class. Some years ago
more than one Australian speed record was
put up on this beach by cars and motor-
cycles, but the local authorities, contending
that the holding of the meetings interfered
with the popularity of the beach as a bath-
ing resort —Southport is Queensland's star
watering place—chased the speedmen off the
premises.
“Disc Clutch”: Britain continues well to
the fore in motor-car design. The latest in-
novation is a car which is an improvement on
the front-wheel drive, in which British makers
have specialised, in that provision is made for
the drive on all four wheels if road condi-
tions demand it. With the conventional type
of car the front wheels are always idle, hav-
ing to be pushed along by the back wheels.
With a drive on all four wheels it is claimed
that the strains and stresses which go so
far to shorten the average car’s life are more
evenly distributed. The new design has
eight forward speeds, and when the* four
low gears are engaged drives on all four
wheels. When any of the high gear's are
engaged the drive to the front wheels is
automatically disconnected.
Miscellaneous
“Cash Amateur”: All thoughts of depres-
sions and conversion loans were thrown to
the wild winds last week, when Australia
heard with horror and dismay that Don Brad-
man was likely to play as an onen profes-
sional with Accrington, one of the Lanca-
shire League clubs which of late years have
been specialising in importing players from
the Dominions. The excitement in Britain
is equally intense, and the situation is eloquent
of the depths to which the modern craze for
gladiatorial games has brought the national
mentality. Bradman has to maice liis living
out of cricket, either as a plaver or In lion-
liection with businesses selling sport requisites
to which the name of a first-class player is
an asset. No one can play first-class cricket
nowadays, and earn a living outside it, unless,
like some of the English amateurs, he has
private means. By all means let Bradman
go to England. There never was a good
man yet in any walk of life to whom a
worthy successor could not be found. The
Bowral man’s departure will certainly be
regrettable from a patriotic standooint. At
the same time he will not necessarily be lost
to Australian Test sides, for he is liable to
be claimed to play for any Australian team
in the Old Country, and will not in
any circumstances be eligible for England,
If he spends alternate cricket seasons in
England and Australia, as_ others have done,
he is still eligible to play for Australia when
on this side.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: With the cricket season
close at hand, most of the Sheffield Shield
States are mapping out their programmes,
N.S.W. will commence grade cricket on Sep-
tember 26, and the Sheffield Shield season
will begin with N.S.W. and Queensland at
Brisbane on Nov. 13. The South Africans
open against W.A. at Perth on October 22.
Though N.S.W. reported a loss on last sea-
son’s operations, Victoria has come out £472
ahead of things, and Queensland records a
profit of £1404. The Queenslanders seem
to have patched up the feud between players
and the controlling body which had such
bad results last year, and since they will this
year have their own ground for the _ big
matches should do even better financially
than heretofore. Of the five Tests against
South Africa. Melbourne will have two and
Brisbane, Adelaide and Sydney one each.


Sleek hair
Make your hair sleek, soft and
lustrous by feeding its dry,
weakened roots with the rich,
pure nourishment of Rowland's
Macassar Oil every day.
O f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
Rlmiaiicfs
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
H. & CO.
MANGROVITE
LEATHER
COATS
Best quality
Guaranteed
A well -cui, caretully-made com
of best quality Calfskin, lined
and finished in very best style,
and available tn Red, Blue.
Green. Grey and Brown
shades. A coat you can abso-
lutely rely on to give wonder-
ful service. Basil* cleaned
Wind proof —water proof and
wear proof
Mangrovit* qualii> eieanu
genuine satisfaction.
w
measurements
REQUIRED
/01/8J
Bust. Centro back to shoulder. Shoulder
seam to elbow. Elbow to just past
wristbone. Length of coat under collar
seam to length required.
MAINGKOVITE BELTING LTD.
Tanners & Manufacturers
4'j YORK STREET (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY
Amusements,
g YDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank l’ait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD
(Commencing' Saturday).
7 cT WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
** MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
DOROTHY BRUNTON in
DEAREST ENEMY.
(Commencing September 12).
COMEDY THEATRE:
MY LADY’S DRESS.
(Commencing September 12).
ď
I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 10% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(also at reduce'
rates) in tearoom
or cafe. Full board
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con
ferences,
teams” sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon's Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's horel
The Cenrre of Quecnsland's
Distinyuished Social Lite
The bowler hat, seen already on too many
heads, occurred at the Society of Artists
opening with frequency. They are not kind
to the many. Under their absurd smallness
plump faces look moon-like, thin ones hag-
gard and the made-up cheek has a raddled
look. The right place for them would appear
to be a Mr. Cochran’s revue, or some candle-
lit interior where the spots at which Nature’s
hand has slipped in designing the human
face would not stare out starkly. Julian
Ashton was another feature of the show.
To him youth and middle-age in art paid
their respects, and to this Letter, growing
confidential, he told the story of his coming
to Australia to work for the long-lipped
canny Scot Syme of the “Age,” and of his
first show of landscapes in the windows of
Mullens’s bookshop. For days the crowds
were so deep before the windows that the
police had to keep moving them on. But
at the end of the week, when Julian strode
in feeling like a conqueror to inquire about
profits, he found that not one picture had
been sold.
Perhaps it was the sight of Saturday’s
crowd, moving sheep-like four deep from pic-
ture to picture, recalled this memory. Any-
way, the net result to the artists was prac-
tically the same. And of poor John Young,
w r ho manages the show, it might, have been,
written he also serves who only stands and
waits. Hardly a red seal met the gaze,
though neglect was not the lot of Melnnes’s
fruit blossom which somebody with an eye
to a bargain had snapped up cheap at 12
guineas.
The smiling Syd Ure Smith, president for
10 years of the 5.0. A., and looking more
like an English country squire than ever,
deservedly won the society’s medal, and joins
the rare army of its holders, which includes
Julian Ashton, Bernard Hall and Victor
Mann. “Medals!” exclaimed Julian. “Oh,
yes; I used to get a great number when I
was a young man. But I found no use for
them until I got married; then they did for
the babies to cut their teeth on.” So now we
know how critic Howard Ashton got such
a deep grip on art.
Everybody turned up to the opening, in-
cluding the Governor. John Longstaff was"
there, and Mrs. Tom Rolin, whose good looks
have a Pineroish savor, was the most-looked-at
woman during the afternoon. Percy Lind-
say, with son Peter, who is the nearest
approach to the new platinum blonde this
Letter has met, listened to a gloomy sugges-
tion that it was a sign of the times that so
many things to eat had been painted. A
gentleman pictured against a salmon-pink
background in a periwinkle-blue suit turned
out to be Fordyee Wheeler, and no mistak-
ing him. Young men with hair that looked
suspiciously like a permanent wave, nicely
set, occurred occasionally. Nan Garvan’s
candid eyes smiled above a high collar of
black Persian lamb; Mrs. Charlie Lloyd
Jones was wrapped in mink; Mrs. E. Wun-
derlich, in silver greys, was with Tlieo
Cowan; Marie Goll and brother-Victorian
MacNally clasped hands enthusiastically;
Fred Leist and B. E. Minus, Mrs. Minns down
for the day from the Mountains ; happy Albert
Collins with his wife; Norman Carter, whose
stained-glass windows will help many a
youngster escape from a dreary sermon into
the Elysian fields; Myra Cocks, just back
from five years in Europe; Arthur Adams
and his pretty Suzette; Mrs. Jessica Lee;
John Lane Mullins and his tall nephew, Wal
Taylor; Mrs. Oliver Osborne. Adelaide
Perry, Chief Justice Street and his lady,
Gladys Owen and young lawyer viodsell were
a few who helped make up the record crowd.
Hector MacQuarrie spared neither himself
nor his audience when he lectured the other
night on his motor-tour of the world. Hector
talked with only a ten-minute stop from just
after eight till eleven o’clock, and people
said: “Well, we do love Hector, but doesn't
he know any sub-editors?” Heavy use of the
blue pencil would have improved the lecture
and allowed the poor who live on the north
side of the harbor to reach home before mid-
night. And no one will be quicker to see this
than Hector, who at one time dwelt in Kirri-
billi, though now, when in Sydney, he mostly
stays with friends at Point Piper.
While Mr. MacQuarrie talked, his friend
and fellow-voyager, Dick Matthews, fitted the
right picture to the words, and the audience
looked first upon the pictures of the sinking
of the Tahiti. This was the best part of the
travelogue, and Hector, who is a _ sensitive,
imaginative fellow with just the right layer
of the religious in his make-up, made it a
real human document. After that, he took
his listeners to London with no apparent
reason except to drag them away again.
Down the highways of America and Central
Europe lie rushed them, through Czecho-
slovakia, Hollywood, Albania, Italy, Turkey,
the battlefields and the Holy Laud; but he
told nothing of the intimate life about any
one country or group of people. He never
seems to have paused to pluck a flower or
note a bit of bush by the way; or to be
interested in the manner of salutation
indulged in by the natives or the shape of
basket the peasants carried to market. Still,
he did get the whole thing together in a few
days because of his sympathy for the unem-
ployed. The Palace Theatre was packed for
the event; the committee might be termed a
symposium of society matrons, foremost
among them the clear-skinned Mrs. Wilfred
Fairfax. The Governor and Lady Game
came and brought with them their own David
and Rosemary, Rosemary Budge and Aide
Gifford.
The drawing-room scene which introduced
the lecture was played a little shyly by Anne
Gordon, Margaret Fairfax and John
McDonald. The Gordon lady, who arranged
this and was to play hostess, had been struck
down by the ’flu, and the nestlings were left
to their own wings.
These days when Government House has
socially drawn the blinds an invitation to
even a meeting at the big house of Macquarie-
street is looked upon almost as a royal com-
mand. Last week the plans for the Inter-
national Ball got a good kick-off in the vice-
regal reception-rooms, where the Governor,
Lady Game, Professor Francis Anderson, who
is president of the League of Nations Union,
and Mrs. Anderson greeted the working-bees
as they arrived complete with honey-full
smiles. The International Ball, which is
becoming a yearly fixture, is to raise funds
for the furtherance of the union;
feature is the pageantry of the nations. To
this end the various Consuls and their wives
are always roped in as active workers, and
Belgium’s Consul Segaert generally attends to
the spectacular fireworks. This year, as
he is away in his own country, simplicity is
to be the keynote of the pageant. Chief
Justice Street’s lady is president of the
committee, which includes Professor John
Peden. R. I>. Gelling, Mrs. Norman Murray
and the wife of Netherlands Consul Tep-
pema, so the treasury should be all right.
The smiling subject of this Dayne picture
is Mrs. Harrie Vale, whose husband was a
founder of the well-known engineering firm.
Mrs. Vale is a perennial hard worker for the
Queen Vic-
toria Homes,
b ein g secre-
tary of the Wo-
men’s Auxil-
iary. Through-
out the year
these ladies
organise and
support enter-
tainments for
the funds of
the hom e s,
and since the
recent Birth-
day Ball the
treasury is so
well lined that
the committee
will not need
to sleuth
pound, slii 1-
ling or pence
until the New
Year. Th e
Hallowe’en Homes and St. Luke’s Hos-
pital are two of the institutions which
have benefited from Mrs. Vale’s enthusiastic
service. The lady’s father was the popular
R. G. Watkins, one-time Mayor of Waver-
ley. Her husband, incidentally, claims to
have owned Sydney’s first motor-car.
Mighty rivers, pellucid streams and rain-
bow jets of music flowed and sparkled
through the city all last week, and who can
say that grosser things of its life have not
been cleansed thereby? In every quarter
sounds of melody ravished the ear and the
mind. In the churches organs and choirs
resounded to the works of the liturgical
writers, notable performances being given
in St. James’s, the Pitt-street Congregational
Church and St. Patrick’s on Church Hill.
At the Conservatorium the String Quartet
poured out the soul of Beethoven and Schu-
mann ; at the Town Hall the Philharmonic
gave one of its happiest programmes, Parry’s
“Pied Piper,” Beethoven’s “Choral Fan-
tasia” and Coleridge-Taylor’s “Hiawatha’s
Wedding Feast” forming the bill. Orches-
tras played, sopranos, contraltos, baritones,
tenors and basses flung out their notes with
gladsome abandonment into the starry void,
and up in the Gardens the birds sang among
the tree-tops and little border flowers trilled
to a rainbow of sound.
From a purely feminine point of view
the music party staged by Mayoress Jack-
son in her civic drawing-room was the
most diverting. Mrs. Jackson is one of
the city’s most successful hostesses. She has
revived the almost-forgotten art of intro-
ducing guests to one another; her rooms are
always heady with the scent of languishing
and glowing blooms; and the music she pro-
vides always pays her friends the compliment
of believing them musically intelligent. Emily
Marks, Ray Fox, Isolde Hill, Charlotte Mills,
Iris de Cairos Rego and Qliver King were
the artists, Gerald Peachell, Dr. Arundel
Orchard, Constance Burt, Howard Carr,
Oswald Anderson and Mrs. Arthur Scrivener
being among the partakers of tea and melody.
Pianist Trix Tange and Mrs. Roland Foster
expressed themselves in ivory and black,
like a piano keyboard; Chopin should have
been there to set them both to music. Mrs.
Charlie Lloyd Jones looked in, crowned with
one of those little hats (more boat-shaped
than bowler) which carry a plump curling
ostrich plume. Hat and plume were both
in sunlit-brown tones.
Harry Dangar, the nice-looking young
man herewith, is a son of the squattocracy
who is forsaking the laud for the footlights.
An Osborne once toured with a Julius Knight
company, but
he wasn’t
really a pro-
fessional. He
was a bride-
groom who
had just mar-
ried the star
of the com-
pany. Maude
Jeffries.
Harry, who
lias done good
amateur work,
part icularly
with the Play-
box, will ap-
pear as lead
i n “W h e n
Knights Were
Bold” when it
opens shortly
at the Palace
Theatre. The
clever young
man is an artist of talent, and shows with
the Society of Artists. He was also a soldier
for a time with a crack English regiment.
Gerald Peachell has resigned as conductor
of the Phil., and is about to return to Eng-
land. Howard Carr has been appointed
acting-conductor.
Last week Walter Jago, the active and
imaginative president of the Fellowship of
Australian Writers, led a pilgrimage out
to the graves of Lawson, Kendall and Victor
Daley, which form the nucleus of an Aus-
tralian “poets’ corner” in Waverley Ceme-
tery. The singers of to-day and to-morrow
responded with that happy feeling of kin-
ship with the dead that is the possession
of poets (major or minor) the world over.
Perhaps the presence of the press photo-
grapher took away from the feeling that
friend was visiting friend, but it was worth
a good deal to see blue-eyed . Rod Quinn,
Steele Rudd, “Gilrooney” and the Don Quixo-
tish Le Gay Brereton keeping tryst with
their old chums. Bertha Lawson placed a
garland on her father’s grave, Marjorie Quinn
performed the same graceful act at the foot
of Kendall’s tall memorial, and Victor
Daley’s daughter, Eileen (now Mrs. Walsh),
put a spring-like wreath above her poet-
father’s heart.
Mrs. Mark McGahey, who was Maxine
Foy, is back in Sydney visiting her parents,
the Mark Foys, of Bellevue Hill. Maxine.,
it will be remembered, married about 18
months ago, since when she has been living
on a plantation at Taiping.
Roland Foster and Emily Marks are
still being congratulated on the spec-
tacular pageant which was the grand rocket
of Music Week. This was the star turn of
Saturday night’s revels, and took exactly
one hour in the march past. It was a
triumph of organisation and imagination,
and a special cheer must go to the set that
symbolised Holst’s Planets. Lawrence
Campbell, as Beethoven, received a regular
royal salute of applause, as did that world-
wide favorite Christopher Robin. Mrs.
Arthur Scrivener, in a chiffon frock sugges-
tive of a cloud before nightfall, brought an
outsize party, and Mrs. Roland Foster, in
regal black and gold lame, hostessed another
group of great dimensions. The sparkling
Mrs. F. J. Davy, pianist Isidor Goodman,
Pat Nathan, the artistic Daisy Dowse, Miss
Elizabeth Plummer and Dr. Orchard were
revellers to be noted.
A wide-flung circle of friends is sympathis-
ing with artist John D. Moore, whose young
wife has died within the last fortnight. Mrs.
Moore, who was an ardent worker for the
Australian Mothercraft Socjety, leaves, in
addition to her husband, two small sons and
iouimalist-sister Mrs. Gwen Spencer to grieve
her loss.
Parramatta is busy chanting a hymn of
praise to itself over producing the brilliant
Marcel Sofer-Sdireiber, whose career in sur-
gery and medicine at Sydney Uni. leaves the
poor human of f.a.q. intelligence gasping.
The young doctor, a former pupil of Parra-
matta High, has since he entered the
University in 1926 plucked prizes and distinc-
tions with a regularity that became mono-
tonous. In his first year he halved the Ren-
wick General Proficiency with T. C. Maurer.
To him fell the Caird scholarship for distinc-
tion in anatomy and physiology (second
year), and in his third year the John Harris
prize for the same subjects. In liis fourth
year he gained the Caird No. 2 General
Proficiency, and was bracketed equal for the
Parkinson Memorial for pathology and the
Craig prize for operative surgery and surgi-
cal anatomy. In actual cash his prize money
has been £5OO, yet unlike the champion
cricketers, swimmers and tennis players of
his years this young man’s photograph has
not by means of press and screen been broad-
cast through a hundred thousand homes.
Now. of course, unless the B.M.A. changes
its tactics, he and the photographer will
practically remain unknown quantities to
each other.
Brisbane’s bundle:—
Leo Guyatt and Griffith Oxley staged “Romeo and
Juliet” before good audiences for two nights in All
Saints’ Ilall. Leo has naturally the Romeo look,
and Dorothy Free impressed as a fetching Juliet.
R. Stevens was a satisfactory Mercutio, and Nell
Graham a convincing Nurse, while Italia Guyatt
made a handsome Lady Capulet. In the audience
were the A. D. Grahams, Mrs. Agnew Jackson, Mis?
England, Mrs. V. McCulloch, Mr. and Mrs. C. J.
Dobbie and many other Sliakspeare lovers.
Dr. Mowll, Bishop of Western China, and Mrs.
Mowll are staying with Dean and Mrs. H. H. Dixon.
The Bishop lias a moving talc to tell of brigand-
who carried off himself and his wife and held them
captive for 24 days. This was in 1925, before the
Mowlls had been married a year. The pair, along
with other members of the Mission, were dragged
out of bed in their night-clothes, forced across a
river with ropes round their necks, and taken across
country for two days, being ultimately confined in a
farmhouse with the animals, where Mrs. Mowll con-
tracted fever. The secretary of the Mission finally
effected their releas'e, the Chinese Government paying
2600 dollars as ransom.
The Rev. R. Kerr, the bride’s great-uncle, tied the
nuptial knot for L. B. Eastwell, of Willow Vale, and
Gwendoline Williams, of Warwick. The bride, who
was given away by her father, was in white satin,
with veil and the original orange-blossom wreath
worn by her mother at her wedding. Marion Hackett
and Mabel Eastwell ’maided in mauve organdie. The
reception was held at the home of the bride’s aunt.
At St. Stephen’s Cathedral, Martin Purcell, or
Clayfield, married Doreen Kelly, of Eagle Junction.
The bride, who was given away by her brother, was
in white satin with Limerick-lace veil, and carried
a sheaf of arum-lilies. Kathleen Kelly ’maided in
rose pink satin and pink picture hat, and Madonna
Purcell, the bridegroom’s niece, was trainbearer in
green mariette. The reception was at the bride’s
mother’s home.
Two daughters of the late Hugh Nelson have died
on the same day, Mrs. Robert Munro, the elder one.
at St. Martin’s Hospital, Brisbane, and Maud Nelson,
in Melbourne. Maud was -unmarried and lived with
her sister Mrs. Thwaites. A. M. Nelson, of Auchen-
fiower, is a brother.
“The Belle of New York” has proved popular as
ever at His Majesty’s, with Miriam Lester as the
belle and Don Nicol as Bronson pere. Vera Spaull
was particularly charming in a white and silver
confection. In the audience on the opening night
were the Mayor and Mayoress, Dr. and Mrs. W. N.
Robertson, the G. A. Stronachs, the Charles Stewarts,
Mrs. W. Young and daughter Etta, Dr. and Mrs.
Willis, Mrs. Eve, Mrs. Gordon Lahey, the N. F.
Langdons and the George Cryles.
Tassie’s talk:—
The well-advertised Art, Antique and Historical
Exhibition was opened by the Lieut.-Gov. at the
City Hall. Of all the amazingly beautiful and
curious things on view, perhaps the china and the
antique furniture stand out. Among other exhibit-
are lace, jewellery, pictures, and historic relics of the
Speck’s very earliest days.
A pretty and popular Launceston wedding was
that of Beverley, youngest of the W. G. Baird girls,
to H. G. Barwick. The bride’s frock was of parch-
ment-silk lace and tulle; the bodice of lace worn
with a bertlie, and the skirt entii’ely of tulle in
irregular tiers, over a satin slip. The veil fell
from a chaplet of orange-buds and formed the train.
Two small maids of honor, Dawn Youl and F. Mc-
Intyre, looking like frilly buttercups in frocks of
yellow organdie, with tight, short-waisted bodices and
skirts in graduated frills, followed the bride. Mr.
and Mrs. Baird entertained the guests at their home
afterwards, the hostess in black lace worn under a
coat of black and red embossed lame.
Eleanor Moore, international sec. of the Women"?
International League for Peace and Freedom, ha-
been paying the Speck a visit. Mayor and Mayoress
Soundy gave her a civic Welcome. Mrs. Watenvorth.
whose guest she was, gave a party in her honor at
Poets’-road, and the League of Nations lunched lie
at the Grotto. The lady is an able speaker and her
meetings were well attended.
Pixie, daughter of the T. A. Tabarts, Mount Stuan-
rpad, has become the affianced of Dr. Frank R.
Vincent.
Synod brought a bevy of clerics and their wives
and families to town, and the Antique and Art Exhi-
bition helped to pass their off-duty moments.
A recent Launceston engagement is that of Helen,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Glover, Wynyard, to Alan
Cuff.


EYES! ACHING EYES! TIRED EYES!
Cross Eyes! Weak Eyes!
Let ME give YOU relief, cure you without drugs or
glasses as I have cured hundreds of others.
The treatment is the famous SWISS EYE TREAT-
MENT —used extensively throughout Europe (now
being introduced to Australia).
Let ME help YOU—NOW! !
For short period only, 7/6 for full course.
Send stamped envelope for full particulars to
Box F 766, G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
Missing' Friends.
YY/ILL any person knowing the where-
abouts or having any knowledge of
FREDERICK WILLIAM SORRELL
WILSON, formerly of Perth, Western Aus-
tralia, and of Hastings, Victoria, Farmer and
Laborer, and last heard of from Frankston,
Victoria, about 37 years ago, please com-
municate with WILLIAM S. COOK AND
McCALLUM, Solicitors, 422 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
TO PERCY WALTER COX, formerly of
A Sycamore Street, Caulfield, in the State
•of Victoria, but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife HAZEL
VIOLA MARGUERITE COX has instituted
proceedings against you for Divorce on the
grounds of wilful desertion for three years
and upwards. Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court at Melbourne on or before
the second day of October, 1931, the case
may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs.
DOUGLAS S. RITCHIE,
440 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Proctor for the Petitioner.
YY/’OODMASON. —If any person knows of
vv the whereabouts of JAMES MATTHEW*
WOODMASON, late of Malvern, and
brother of the late Walter Woodmason, will
they please communicate with The Equity
Trustees Company. 472 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne. It will be to Mr. Woodmason's
advantage. Mr. Woodmason was last
heard of in the Camperdown district, and
suffered from deafness.
BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 50/-
MEKCHANTS AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
fJ&te/uxAA/ &eL£&4 ,
j. Tia&vie Stzi&rwe ,
nf&cid S&xU«4, StZupe.
s-SCceesn TurteJ, fr z
tAe ttn
TheAUSTRALASIAH
ON SALE ALL STATES €>>
=«*=
THE PATRIOT
IDIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMENI
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Unlimited Credit is Useless
unless it can be used profitably.
That is the position now in the U.S.A., where
there is a glut of credit and millions of un-
employed.
Sec “The Barrier Miner” of last Saturday,
where this fact is fully shown.
All the Far Western people read “The Barrier
Miner” every day—they want no other news-
paper, either in the city of Broken Hill or
in the pastoral district around that great
centre of production.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabetlran
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] [?]for [?]
Buckey a Nunn [?]
[?]
Though there was a big crowd at the
V.A.T.C. meeting on Saturday everything
went smoothly and comfortably. There was
rejoicing among women members when they
discovered that there was a tote window in
a corridor of the stand. It was a day of
gorgeous sunlight, but there was a touch of
winter in the breeze, though the trees were
beginning to bud into leaves of palest green.
Fair patrons felt that the weather merited
some degree of joyous abandon in dressing,
so they took it out in bowler hats with
feathers that curled coyly upop one cheek or
drooped over collar or shoulder. The mil-
linery was in all kinds of straw, enamelled
or dull. There was an outcrop of huge coat
posies and sprays of buttercups, primroses,
polyanthus, cyclamens and other flowers that
ars supposed to bloom in the spring. Some
uice tailored suits of light-weight material
were on view. Mrs. Clive Leonard topped
a sapphire-blue suit with a smny white
straw hat: Mrs. J. Fell came with her
daughters, Mrs. J. Crespin and Mrs. Daw-
born. Westralian Premier Mitchell’s lady
was there. Mrs. J. Summers, in powder-blue
ensemble and white felt hat, accompanied
Mrs. Lionel Robinson. June Baillieu and
Margaret Finlay, both tailored in brown,
were likewise in the box. Mrs. Len Buxton’s
all-black turnout was relieved by a dash of
emerald green. Mrs. Lockwood also was in
black. Mrs. Alan Currie was with Miss Power,
and Mrs. James Purves, who sported a beige
ensemble with matching felt hat, came with
her daughter Valerie, who was a study in egg-
shell-green. Betty Fairbairn was wrapped
in a dyed squirrel coat, which was allied
to a black velvet hat. Miss Ella Payne and
Jean Lawrence, the last-named in pale green;
the Richard Lintons, Mrs. Murray Heffernan,
of Sydney. Mrs. Middows. Mi' H S. K.
Ward, well-tailored in black and white, and
Mrs. H. A. Abbott were others who enjoyed
the sunshine.
The younger members of the Victoria
League hostessed an afternoon party at head-
quarters. Mrs. A. S. Elford and Jean Carter
extended the greeting hand. The Allen lady
welcomed new members, and made compli-
mentary reference to the good work being
done by recent recruits. A playlet, “The
Crystal Gazer/’ in w-liich Barbara Elford and
Betty Matear took part, songs by Winnie
Gardiner and piano solos by Helen Speeding
entertained the gathering.
The Newman Society gave a dance at the
Rex. Mrs. D. J. McGrath, wife of the presi-
dent, was there in black with a figured design
iu rose and green. Their daughter Mena
sported apricot-colored gros-grain silk figured
with purple blossoms. Dr. and Mrs. Maurice
MacGillicuddy brought along their elder
daughter, Mauricette, arrayed in lavender
taffetas and lace.
Bridge was played at the Victoria to sup-
port Sam McKay’s candidature in the Alfred
Hospital’s Ring competition. Mr. and Mrs.
McKay were among the players.
Lee Neil launched the photographic show
at the Athenaeum in a short speech and was
shown round by chairman Spencer Shier,
secretary C. Stuart Tompkins and Dr.
Julian Smith. One of Dr. Smith’s portrait
studies, “The Tryst,” is a picture of his
daughter Roma. Peggy Clarke is represented
in the show by a couple of portraits. Among
the early-viewers were Vice-Admiral Cres-
well and his wife, the Robinson lady, Mrs.
Charlie Tait, Mrs. Alister Clark, Mrs. Julian
Smith and Mrs, A. H. Scott.
The wedding of Cecil, only daughter of
medical-knight Henry Maudsley, and Lionel,
eldest surviving son of Mrs. Albert Miller,
took place at the Melbourne Grammar School
chapel. It was purely a family affair, and
the bride wore her travelling costume.
At St. Pat.’s Cathedral Father Murphy,
rector of Newman College, forged the links
between Joan, youngest daughter of the
B. D. Ratcliffs, of Hawthorn, and Dr. Dennis
F. O’Brien, of Adelaide. Three ’maids, clad
in pale-green chiffon and large shady mil-
linery of the same hue, attended the bride,
whose gown was ivory satin with a white
tulle veil anchored to a Juliet cap.
Vera Smythe, of Deniliquin. is due to trail
her ivory satin and tulle draperies over the
aisle of the Melbourne Grammar School
Chapel to-day to keep a troth with Jim, son
of the George Paxtons. Phyllis Mein,
Valerie Hennessy and Peggy King will be the
attendant maids, all in soft pink. Among
entertainments in the bride-elect’s honor was
a gift tea-party, with bridge, put on by Miss
Mein and Miss Hennessy at the home of the
Meins, on St. Kilda-road.
As we have had hardly any frosty nights
this winter the Canterbury and District Hor-
ticultural Society was able to hoiu its first
daffodil show of the season at an earlier
date than usual. Sixteen varieties were
£° r some of the rare sorts up to
ioO a bulb has been paid. The champion-
ship went to a Fortune daffodil, of reddish
hue.
Mrs. T Sadler Gill gave a bridge party
at the Wentworth to welcome home Mrs
Hugh ITamilton after travels which took in
England, the U.S.A. and S’Africa. Over her
berry-red frock Mrs. Hamilton had a black
coat trimmed with skunk fur, and there was
vr das ;l l n white straw millinery.
Mrs. Gill who had the help of her daughter,
.Mrs. A. Fowler, wore a coatee natterned in
a floral design of rose, fawn and silver over
her black gown. Mrs. W. M. Robins and
her daughter, Mrs. Norman Price. Mrs. lan
Hamilton and Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie were
among the guests.
Halting here on her way to attend con-
ferences m the Harbor City and Brisbane,
Mrs. Rischbieth, president of the Federation
of Women Voters, was invited to address
members of the Women Citizens’ Movement,
with which the federation is affiliated. She
spoke upon proportional representation and
the equality of the sexes. Mrs. Britomarte
James thanked the visitor.
For the final concert of their season at
the Town Hall Peter Dawson and Mark
Hambourg had a crowded house. After
Mark’s vigorous performance of the Liszt
transcription of Mendelssohn’s “Wedding
March” a man in the gallery shouted
“Bravo!” Peter was not permitted to go
home till he had sung “The Floral Dance.”
Lieut.-Governor Irvine and his lady were
there.
Emily Somerville* a contralto who is a
pupil of Violet Somerset, of the New Con.,
gave a recital in association with violinist
Rene Bregozzo, The singer looked striking
in a gown of emerald-green satin. Her chief
number was the recitative and aria from
“Mignon,” “Ivnowest Thou That Fair
Land?” Mrs. Ann Maeky, director of the
New Con., was at the piano.
The trouser skirt, of which women have
heard so much lately, at its best can scarcely
be picked out from its long flowing undivided
sister, but at its worst it looks something
like the exaggerated bell-bottomed trousers
worn by Jack Tar. Of course, the beaches
have accustomed the eye to this line, but
still a little more grace is expected in a ball-
room than, say, on the sands at Woy Woy.
This latter type of pyjama suit, according
to playwrights and fashion journals, is appa-
rently worn by exotic creatures in their
boudoirs during the cocktail hour. On this
point the Letter, however, frankly confesses
to ignorance. Only one woman of its
acquaintance owns anything approaching a
boudoir, and that’s a cap, and she, poor
darling, is of the old-fashioned variety who
doesn’t wear, trousers or shake a cocktail.
However, when in doubt a sound rule would
seem to be Bondi for pyjamas and Poiret
for trouser skirts.
Is it irony with the dress designers to
introduce the. bustle into this world of busi-
ness women?' Heavens, if any of those men
lived on a ’bus or ferry route and glimpsed the
helter-skelter of the nine-to-six girl he’d know
the last exhortation she needed was to get a
bustle on. Then there are the Victorian
flounces and the feather-wreathed hats to be
contended with. An ardent feminist declared
the other day that all these styles are part of
a deep-laid conspiracy of the male to put back
the clock for women’s movements. Every-
body these times, she averred, knows the influ-
ence clothes have over the mind, and man is
only planning these ultra-feminine ruffles to
engage woman in an orgy of self-adornment
while he goes out and snatches the best jobs
in the market. “Feather-wreathed hats,”
she sneered, “are just another plume-decked
hearse for our own funeral!”
Helen Trickett, hon. sec. and treasurer
of the Cairns Memorial am. dram, soc., pic-
tured here by
Lafayette, has
just made her
52nd appear-
ance in pro-
ductions spon-
sored by the
society. She
was in the cast
of “It Pays to
Advertise,” a
three-act farce
in which most
of the laughs
were created
by Norman
Balmer and
Leonard Mc-
Kea n. Doro-
thy Bush, as a
secretary, set
off her fair-
ness with nice
costumes, and
Lilian d’Alton,
as a bogus countess, wore an up-to-the-
minute frock of floral chiffon.
Glass is still popular as an adjunct to
feminine finery. Tube-like necklets composed
of tiny glass flowers, shaped like forget-
me-nots but of every shade, are among
the newest adornments, rivalling even
the strings of massive brightly-colored beads,
now interspersed with very tiny ones of gold,
silver or crystal. Another fancy of the
moment is the wearing of wee posies of china
flowers in the form of brooches. Though coral
has returned and conquered Europe, it has
not yet caught on here again. The real
thing is dearer than the most expensive of
imitation jewellery.
The petticoat, abbreviated and bereft of
importance in the days when skirt-hems
flirted with knees, has returned triumphantly
to its proper place in the scheme of furbe-
lows. It comes back frilled, flounced and
voluminous, of white or colored silk, giving
forth the fascinating frou-frou that delighted
our grandmothers.
One of the amusing things about these
times is the way the wives of men still rich,
but not quite so rich as they were, bewail
the family misfortunes to the girls in their
pet hat- and dress-shops. The other morn-
ing this Chatterer nearly collided with the wife
of a merchant prince as that lady stepped out
of a shop and into a resplendent car.
Within the shop a slim saleswoman was
pensively pinching the petals of a pique
flower. “Poor Mrs. Faintheart,” said
the girl—“she has made .me feel so
sad. She tells me her husband has lost
half his income, they have got rid of two of
their cars, and they have closed up their
country house.” The salesgirl had already
suffered two cuts in her own salary, apart
from the weekly unemployment tax. and she
has never owned as much as a half-share in
a baby car.
As a memorial to Melba, an avenue of silver-
birch-trees has been planted along the road
between Mooroolbark station and Coombe
Cottage. Edna Walling directed operations.
Contributions to the Lud Mayor’s fund
for the last 12 months reached. the record
total of £95 416. Twenty hospitals and 89
other charities shared the money.
Matrons and maids have rushed to crown
their shingles and permanent waves with the
new straw millinery, particularly in the
bowler form. The style doesn’t properly go
with furs, but bunches of feathers are seen
festooning themselves over winter wraps
from black straw hats of this shape. By
the time the Melbourne Cup season comes
round they will have about done their dash,
and maybe the cart-wheel variety of hat in
fine texture of crinoline or lace straw will
be shading the caped shoulders of the chiffon-
clad. Recent mannequin parades of warm-
weather dresses have shown that there will
be a wide range in the way of embellishments
—frills, flounces, ruches, capes and coats
that can follow peasant or toreador lines or
be just their sweet selves.
Mrs. Horsnell, of Daylesford, who came
to Australia in 1854, celebrated her 95th
birthday at the residence of her son, W. F.
Horsnell. Among the guests were her four
nieces: Mi’s. Reg Lowe (Box Hill). Phvllis
Horsnell, Iris Shaw (secretary of the Aus-
tral Salon), and barrister Winnie Horsnell.
The old lady, who knew Melbourne when
there were only three houses between Russell-
street and Elgin-street, Carlton, and saw
the departure of Burke and Wills’s ill-fated
expedition, is very bright and active.
This martial-looking personage is Harold
Elvins, presi-
dent of the
Music Teach-
ers' Associa-
tio n. The
mi 1 i tary re-
galia was
assumed for
the purposes
of the Inter-
national Gala
pageant at the
Town Hall, in
which the
musician re-
presented
Blucher. Broo-
thorn is re-
sponsible for
the picture.
Mr. Elvins has
been accom-
panist for sev-
er a 1 great
singers who have toured Australia.
There was something almost uncanny
about the unsuccessful attempt to sink the
old paddle-steamer Hygeia. For years and
years the old vessel carried family parties
on summer excursions down the bay, and
she seemed to have plenty of life left in her
when it was decided to scrap her and con-
sign the hull to the deep. Reduced to a mere
shell the old ship was being towed towards
the spot selected in Bass Strait when a
fierce gale uprose and the Hygeia broke loose
from the towing hawser. Two seamen man-
aged to board her, but were unable to secure
tow-rope or chain, so she drifted back to
her old haunts and settled securely on the
sandbank between Rye and Rosebud. Many
motorists have made excursions to the sea-
side to glimpse the old lady, who is evidently
determined not to be sent to the bottom
before her day.
A Melbourne broadcasting station received
a severe shock recently. It invited ven-
triloquist Arthur Prince to discourse to
its listeners, and after he had done so
told him that the experience would cost
him nothing, although the usual charge for
the use of its facilities was three guineas.
Instead of falling on the neck of tne manage-
ment at this display of magnanimity Prince
politely remarked that the 8.8. C. in London
paid him 45 guineas a session, and as con-
firmation produced receipts for seven such
sessions.
South Australia dances in:—
The Kindergarten Ball was a winner. The
Palais Royal boxes were all booked and
everyone brought parties. His Ex. and Lady
Ilore-Ruthven were received by the Moulden
lady and Mrs. Lavington Bonython (vice-presidents) ;
the Premier and Mrs. Lionel Hill were in the vice-
regal box. Morna Bobbie and Dorothy Slane provided
an amusing “bicycle built for two” turn to the
strains of “Daisy Bell,” the revived ditty that
figures on every programme of dance music. They
wore the costumes of ’99 and the item concluded
with a tap dance. Instead of the usual flower stall,
26 pretty girls drew round the ballroom a little
cart containing a mass of flowers that resembled a
huge bouquet, and finally dispersed into hundreds
of little ones that found a, ready sale.
Tattersall’s Club had a fine day for its meet-
ing at Morpliettville. His Ex. was present, with
Captain C. H. Williamson in attendance. Mr. P. J.
Flannagan, the cheery chairman, and his wife enter-
tained at afternoon-tea, and as usual black outfits
and fur coats predominated.
Mesdames C. W. Goodman and F. Hockey, of
Melbourne, are in Adelaide on a visit to their mother,
the Butler lady.
At the Maison de Danse, Glenelg, a charity ball
was held in aid of the Minda and Northcote Homes
and the T.B. Soldiers’ Aid Society. Mrs. Stow and
Miss Adams were in charge of the lucky cap stall.
The inmates of the Angorichina Hostel in the Far
North had sent along a beautifully-carved chair;
Mr. J. Johnson, the winner, passed it in to be sold
by auction to swell the receipts.
Mr. A. Drake-Brockman, of Melbourne, is the
guest of his sister, the Moulden lady, at Brougham
Place, North Adelaide.
The large bridge party organised by the local
association of the Girl Guides, City division, and
held at the residence of Mrs. E. W. Holden, Dequett-
ville-terraoe, Kent Town, resulted in a profit of
£4B 155., shared by the Kuitpo Colony and the
Outback Relief Fund.
From Westralia:—
Bridge was played in the Ambassadors’ lounge against
a backgx-ound of gilded decorations. Soft cushions
and expensive surroundings are not conducive to
brilliant play, but the party was a great success,
and a specially dainty tea was served while a gale
howled outside. Mrs. John Walsh, looking attractive
in a deep red velvet gown and matching millinery,
and Mrs. David Walsh, in royal-blue and black flecked
tweed, organised the function. Proceeds go to Castle-
dare, the home on the Canning , for sub-.normal boys.
Jean Lang had a gift and bridge party for Dorothy
Beart, who soon will take a matrimonial plunge.
The principal guest cut the string on her paper
parcels, the contents of which ran mostly to linen
and hand-made knick-knacks, in a black gown with
a pointed applique about the throat and a shiny
little hat. Jean chose a sheath-like garment of
black flat crepe.
C.B.C. old boys made a welter of their reunion
cabaret in Temple Court. Chinese lanterns bobbed
merrily among streamers in the college colors and
solo dances were a diversion. Marcia Hodges wore
clierry-red laces, Becca Davies chose sapphire-blues,
Mollie Scott’s georgettes ran to amber shades, rose-
ash chiffons clad Ruth Wardell-Johnson, Betty Golf
wore deep cream, Pat- Lang was in peach-blossom
pink, Muriel Slattery fluttered ruby chiffons, and
dewdrop beads glistened upon Noreen Riley’s sea-
blue ninon.
For the second year in succession, that small
bundle of energy Mrs. Reg McKissock won the
championship of Perth Golf Club. During the previ-
ous week she was conquered by Isla Taylor in the
final of the State championship. Assisting her hus-
band at his massage and weight-reducing enterprise
and running her flat keep her busy between times.
The jovial Reg, who has long experience in the
production of physical fitness, has worked up a
private connection since his physical instructor’s job
was scratched off the Defence Department’s pay-roll.
The evening of September 22 has been booked by
a committee of old Loreto girls for a bridge party
in the Piccadilly. The effort is for the Little Sisters
of the Poor, one of the few organisations which do
not accept a Government subsidy.'


A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population,
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Clic Brisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 °fo
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary,
¥ ¥ iji
Foil can get more of these interest-
big facts regarding the Queensland
MarJeet , from :
Che IBrisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane.
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
h. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe , Streets. 'Phone F 3906.
London Agents" .H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
d
Every 500
Miles ol Travel
The ALEMITE System
of Lubrication certainly
solves the problem of fric-
tion. Keep your bearings
clean — eliminate sand,
grit and dirt—and you pos-
itively eliminate friction.
Friction isthe cause of hard
riding, squeaking cars.
The ALEMITE Pressure Lubrication Gun, illustrated
on the right, forces ALEMITE Lubricant, a pure solid-
ified oil—under tremendous pressure—right into the
bearings. All dirt, sand and grit is forced out —
leaving the bearings clean and perfectly lubricated.
Don’t forget, to watch your lubrication as carefully as you watch
your petrol supply —every 500 miles — it. is really more important.'
ALEMITE CORPORATION ««; Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. V.
Or front the following Representatives;
HEIN NETT & WOOD, Ltd. . . . 281 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd. Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd. . . . 894 Hay Street, Perth
E< A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty) Ltd. . 535, Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED • • • • 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
n
K-AUST-3
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
too
gticurg
A household preparation
for Over half a century.
Those who know the secret
of skin health and beauty
use Cnttenra Soap
and Ointment regular-
ly to keep the skin and scalp
in good condition.
They also find Cuticura
Talcum ideal for ever)
member of the family.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
I’alcum Is. 3d. Sample each Irce.
. Address: R. Towns & Co.
' Sydney, N. S. W. .
A Tale of a Torch.
IN THIS STORY G. M. TURNBULL WHOSE "ALIEN CORN" IS TO BE
THE NET "BULLETIN" SERIALY GIVES US ANOTHER TINE PIC-
TURE OF NATIVE LIFE IN NEW GUINEA.
THE night was silent arid still-and frag-
rant ; one of those magic nights that
almost compensate, for the heat and
burden of the day in western Papua. A
budoa-tree in full bloom filled the verandah
with everything that is subtle, seductive, sen-
suous. The waters of the bay were here an
ebony mirror, there a path of-silver running
along the surface straight up to the moon :
and, beyond, they caught the sparkle of
jewels by reflected masthead lights. The
stillness was enchanting, the scented air a
sedative for overstrained nerves.
We had dined at the Residency that even-
ing as guests of the District Magistrate.
There was Professor Langdon, the anthro-
pologist, on his way south to add fresh lustre,
to an already brilliant name; there was a
young patrol-officer who had drifted in from
a dowu-epast division, nursing a sense - of
personal injury engendered by a blistering
“Please explain” with which headquarters,
had recently seen fit to smite him. And there
was Meredith, the magistrate.
Meredith was one of the Administration’s
star men. He had read "for the Bar. . His
original research work had 1 given ■ him a defi-
nite niche in the anthropological world;. his
exploratory patrols had earned him warm com-
mendation froiri the Royal Geographical
Society; and the companionship of a dis-
tinguished order, won in the■’l4-’lB shambles,
gave him half a dozen lines in'“Who’s Who.”
Good-humoredly, but with a "hint 1 of firm-
ness in his voice, he had been reading the
patrol-officer a lecture, on duty.
“Duty!” the youngster had sneered. He
was really very much upset. “If my duty
is to slither along the easy road of insinua-
tion and flattery, to study the art of procras-
tination and the science of obstruction, to
give the bloke higher up opportunities to
annex credit to which he has no more title
than —than —oh. damn !”
Meredith laughed softly to himself. “Sleep
on it, son,” he said. “You’ll feel better in
the morning. We all do.”
At that moment there was a deferential
cough, and a uniformed native of splendid
physique stepped out into the light of the
lamp. There was a suggestion of frost about
his temples, he had the eye of a hawk, his
face was an impassive mask carved in ebony.
One could sense the ripple of muscle under
his red-braided, blue-serge jumper as he,
snapped to attention. He caught Meredith’s
•eye, his heels clicked together and his salute
could not have been bettered by a Tommy
sergeant-major. I had watched him that day
swaggering through the village with that
air of complete and silent contempt with
which only a northern tribesman can regard
the simple village folk. I had seen them
dodging out of his way with much more
alacrity than they got out of mine, and for
the moment I had thought the Territory of
Papua belonged to him.
Meredith handed him a bunch of keys.
■■Righto, Sergeant,” he said. “Carry on.”
The sergeant saluted again, wheeled and
stalked away into the outer darkness. Mere-
dith followed him with a friendly eye.
“At the risk of boring, you fellows,” he
remarked, puffing thoughtfully at his pipe,'
“I could tell you a yarn about a man whose
devotion to what he conceived to be his duty
earned him five years in the ‘boob.’ ” He
looked speculatively at the patrol-officer. “A
native, of course. It’s, taken a few genera-,
tions of civilisation to eradicate in the likes
of us the impulse that drove my friend
Bosiana to do —what he did.”
Professor Langdon looked up. “Bosiana!”
he ejaculated. “H’m!”
“It was in the good old days before, the
war,” Meredith resumed, “before ‘thinking
black’ became fashionable, when a district
officer had to be something more than an
anthropologist-cnm-lawyer, and records of
achievement were more important than cor-
respondence records. I was in charge of
the old Kamana division; it was my first
taste of independent command, and I was
full of beans. The mountain people out
there in the back of beyond had always been
truculent, and when they went out on the
rampage, as they did whenever a convenient
opportunity presented itself, they were very
unpleasant gentlemen indeed. But there is
no need to go into stomach-turning details.
“My first job was to occupy the villages
arid obtain the submission of the Epikamu
people—as choice a set of blackguards as ever
raided a miner’s camp or dined off a ' run-
away carrier. All would have gone well
enough if my flat-footed fool of a corporal,
hopelessly obsessed with the idea of his own
importance, hadn’t staged a demonstration of
liis own. Four days out from the station
we struck' one of those ghastly clefts in
the earth, perhaps a hundred, yards wide and
a thousand feet f deep,-characteristic of the
Papuan hinterland. For hours we had
scrambled: painfully along its brink, search-
ing for a -crossing. The sun showed no mercy.
Heat rays beat down from a sky. of molten
brass ; ! they struck up from the. rocky, ground,
they drained the vitality, paralysed all
energy. Only the ‘ creek, tinkling with a
magic note a thousand'feet below, gave an
illusion of coolness. And, keeping pace with
us'on the opposite side, hurling insults, leap-
ing in the air and smiting their buttocks,
brandishing spears and discharging ineffec-
tive arrows, marched a parity of painted
bucks returning ' from J what* had obviously
been a victorious raid.
“I fancy my thrice-aecursed corporal was
under the impression that my youth and
inexperience were combining to let the ‘Gava-
mani’ down. He proceeded to harangue our
truculent escort in vile bastard Motuan. I
savagely ordered him to hold his tongue —I
should have forced the order home with the.
toe of my boot —but he dashed ■ away from
me, bawling out a stream of lurid vitupera-
tion. The next moment he and a couple of
constables were spread-eagled over a rock
taking potshots at the raiders —and missing.
“There was a disconcerting silence; then
murmurs arose, lifting swiftly to a burst
of jeering, cackling laughter. And through
it I heard the voice of a huge, thick : thewed
ruffian, festooned about the middle with a
collection of human bones strung upon a
greasy cord. The scoffers were silent while
he spoke his piece. I asked the interpreter
what it was all about.
“The boy grinned, squirmed, and fixed his
eyes on my boots. ‘He say, Taubada, he no
fright ’long guns .that spit, out only smoko..
He say, Taubada, bymeby he catehem. head
b'lorig you.’' ,
“I had a decidedly uncomfortable convic-
tion that my priceless corporal had landed
us in a pretty mess.
“That same evening at sunset, just as we
were shaking down into camp, there was a
‘swi-i-ish’ overhead, and a shower of arrows,
coming apparently from nowhere, embedded
themselves harmlessly in the long grass.
Then with a deep, full-throated roar a howl-
ing mob came surging out of the jungle, dis-
charging arrows as they came, in the lead
was my sceptical friend of the afternoon.
There was foam on his lips ; his eyes, red-
rimmed and bloodshot, were as murderous-
looking as the heavy ‘pineapple’ stone club
he carried. There was nothing else for it;
the ‘peaceful penetration’ policy went by the
board, and we fired into the brown of them.
“The howls of defiance merged in a second
into a crescendo of terrified shrieks ; the war-
riors halted, wilvered and fled screaming into
the bush. The big chief was one of the
casualties. He had taken a revolver bullet
between tlie eyes. Mine. And wailing over
the body was a twelve-year-old boy. He
was mother-naked, spindle-shanked, and in-
credible layers of dirt added girth to his
already aldermanic stomach. He kicked and
squirmed, fought, bit and scratched when tin-
police brought him in, but a feed and a stick
of tobacco. sooii pacified him. I' held him
for a few days as a hostage for the good
behavior of his friends. It was quite an
unnecessary precaution. The. Epikamu lads
had -learned their lesson, they" had had their,
glorious crowded hour," and were fully per-
suaded of the errors and unprofitableness of
their ways. It only remained for us to
clean up the mess.
. “When the patrol marched back to the.
station, the small boy, full of Government
rice and Government ‘bulamakau,’ marched
with us. After all, I ow 7 ed the poor little
beggar something. His name was Bosiana.”
Meredith paused. There was a very
thoughtful look in his eyes as lie bent for-
ward and tapped his pipe against the leg of
his chair. “Bosiana,” he repeated softly.
“It was queer,”-he w 7 ent on after a while
—“pathetic, if you like—the way that scrap
of Papuan flotsam attached himself to me.
In a few weeks I had a devoted slave, and
scarcely knew what to do with him. He
used to : watch ine with wide, curious eyes,
wistfully expectant, like a dog ready to wag
his tail at. his master’s nod. He started
doing little personal jobs for me with exceed-
ing timidity—polishing my boots, pipe-clay-
ing my helmets, cleaning my camp gear and
so on. Before long he had taken over my
orderly’s duties and was performing them
very well. Once I suggested to him —he had
quickly picked up police-Motuan and ‘pidgin’
that he might like to enter the culinary
department as offsider to the cook. There
were subtleties of scorn in his voice when
he demurred;
“‘No ——- fear, . Taubada! Cooking kai-
kai all-same work b’long woman; no work
b’long proper man. Bymeby me p’leeceman,
Taubada.’
“From then on he drilled with the police,
and took to it as a duck takes to water. Old
Sergeant Boruka —he was speared on the
Turama years after —kept a fatherly eye on
him. In a few'weeks his grotesque little
fever-sploened stomach had vanished, his
chest filled out, liis backbone straightened,
and he was a smart, alert, upstanding strip-
ling of the type that gravitates naturally
into the ranks of the armed constabulary.
“Now, one of my most treasured posses-
sions was an electric torch. It was by way
of being a novel gadget in those days of
flickering hurricane lanterns. I prized it;
but it was the light of Bosiana’s eyes, the
joy of his heart. He spent hours polishing
its nickel-plating, cleaning the globe, oiling
the catch. If I visited the compound at night
he had it ready to my hand: on my return
he took it reverently and packed it away in
its leather case. I began to feel that it
was" his, and that he graciously permitted
mo to use it.
• “Time went on. The rains set in. and,
just as I was settling down to a period of
comparative inactivity, the lid blew off in
the back country. -The programme for tin-
next fortnight or so promised all hands a
passably hectic time. The police spent tin-
day rounding up carriers from the adjacent
villages, breaking out stores and preparing
the packs. I had a few native cases to
dispose, of, and, I remember, a time-expired
prisoner to bless and send home.
“It was raining when the patrol moved
off an hour before dawn the following morn-
ing, and a watery moon showed fitfully
through gaps in the scurrying clouds. But
the night was still very dark.
- “ ‘My torch, Bosiana,’ I said, preparing
to follow the police.
“Bosiana dived into my swag-bag. - A
queer clucking sound came from the dark-
ness ; then an excited outburst of blasphem-
ous Motuan competed with the spat of the
rain.
“‘The torch, Bosiana,’ I repeated, a little
irritably. ‘Get a move on.’
‘I no find him, Taubada.' Bosiana
choked. ‘He no stop.’
“‘You’ve lost it. eh?’ I accused. ‘Or-
or!’—— My voice trailed off. That he had
pinched the damned thing never crossed my
mind —I swear to that. Bosiana fell in be-
hind me, saying nothing.
“The rain was pelting down in a solid
sheet, and looked like keeping it up. The
carriers were more than usually 7 exasperat-
ing; even the invincible grins of the police
were wearing a little thin. Bosiana was
quiet, subdued ; but he had never a word of
complaint, and always his hand came up to
the salute when my eye lighted upon him.
The missing torch had vanished completely
from my mind. I had too many details to
think about; I was too occupied with organ-
isation and the. general beastliness of the
job in hand.'
“That night Bosiana deserted. There was
no other name for it. And to the sin of
desertion he: had added the crime of theft.
A scrub-knife and a new half-axe were miss-
ing from my gear.
“I took Bosiana’s betrayal hard, I’m
afraid, blaming myself fpy allowing my sen-
timental attachment to the lad to blind me
to my painfully-acquired knowledge of the
shallowness of native character. I had ex-
pected better things of Bosiana.
“The next day’s march, and all that fol-
lowed, were but a wearisome progression
from one rain-soaked, comfortless camp to
another. The rains held; carriers slipped
and fell with their packs; hordes of raven
ous insects descended upon us in an unre-
lenting onslaught; the fever-ache began
insidiously to bedevil our bones. And bit-
terly I reviled rain, mud, mosquitoes ant!
leeches and everything that is New Guinea
in ‘the wet.’
“I was in my tent one night performing
some rough-and-ready operative surgery cn
a carrier wlio had suffered a nasty spill.
Suddenly there was a scuffle at the entrance,
and. Bosiana. shouldering past the corporal,
walked in. He was worn to a shadow 7, weary
t 0 the bone, but the light of triumph dwelt
in his eyes.
“In his outstretched hand was my missing
torch.
“‘That dibura [prisoner] bin steal
him, Taubada,' he explained simply. He
must have read the question in my eyes.
‘You savee that dibura, Taubada? The one
you bin givem walk-about paper [discharge!
three-four day lie go now?’
“I fell silent, wondering. I felt myself
squirming, w'orm-like, before Bosiana’s
simple faith. I knew then that my wretched
torch had been the only thought for which
there had been room in his mind; that lie
had brooded over it, grieved over it; that
to recover it he had trailed the real thief
for days over the hardest country 7 m tin
world, under weather conditions that had
caused me to sweat blood, that had worn
down the iron fortitude of the police.
“And in my heart I had called him de-
serter and thief!
“ ‘Thank you, Bosiana,’ I said.
“Bosiana beamed. But there was some-
thing more. With an air of extreme diffi-
dence not unmixed' with pride, he produced
a tapo-wrapped parcel and placed it on the
camp-table. ’
“ A bin fixem-up that —— dibura, Tau-
bada,’ he remarked casually. ‘No more be
stealem somet’in’ b’long Gavamani.’
"The corporal gave a startled grunt when
he cut the lashings of Bosiana’s parcel. I
felt slightly sick.
“‘First time I catch him I Till him ’long
tomahawk,- Taubada.’ Bosaaul cheerfully
explained. •Behind [afterwards] I cuttem
off head b’long bun ’long —rub-knif
I: * *
The deep booming note of a conch-shell
—the nine o’clock curfew—shattered tn<
stillness of the night. There was a step
on the threshold, and the sergeant stalkeu
into the lamplight, stiffened and saluted.
“Lights ont, sah,’’ he reported. “Every-
t’ing all right, sah. Keys here, sail.'’
Meredith took the keys and secured them
to a ring on his belt.
“Righto, Sergeant,” he said. “Carry on.
The sergeant saluted, wheeled and marched
stolidly to the door. There was a Htti
pause.
“Good night, Bosiana.” Meredith saw
softly.
The native’s massive body became rigid.
He turned, and. there was a sudden brief
widening of his eyes, a suggestion of a smir
about his mouth.
“Good night. Taubada,” replied Sergeant
Bosiana.


d
d
NEVER REALLY ILL - YET NEVER
REALLY
FIT
.
I
r
m
m
Wm
We all know that “half-and-half” feeling. Not
downright ill—yet far from well. That feeling which
comes on Mondays, after an indiscreet week-end. You
get it, too, with certain winds, and at the change of
the seasons.
Often you get it without any apparent reason. You
are a bore to yourself and a nuisance to others, and life
seems to have something missing. The trouble may be
trivial it may be serious, but in either case it is
Nature’s warning, so take heed in time.
You will notice an improvement immediately on
taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They rectify the
trouble at its very source; through the blood stream.
Maybe it’s Indigestion or Dyspepsia; perhaps it’s
Constipation or Liver Trouble. Is it Kidney Trouble
or Stomach Acidity?
In any case Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will
help you.
Dr. Mors
IWtWI iimiHUMM imHHHMi
k:
W\MWVW
1
/ A
«*!
ď
đ
d
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin’*
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GR.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
address
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
FIDGETY
CHILDREN
Are often the
Victims of Worms
A child who is affected with Threat
Worms will often appear to the eye to be
in an indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper. Another
point to which the attention of mothers
should be specially directed is that the child
is apt to start in its sleep, its repose being
in the way of a disturbed nature.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts of
temper, restlessness and peevishness, and
until some more serious symptoms appear
nothing is done to alleviate the distress. The
symptoms of this disease are somewhat vari-
able, but generally they are so characteristic
that no mother need have any doubt. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if the
general conduct of the child is such as- to give
the slightest suspicion a careful watch will
give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents of the
bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasiness
in the abdomen, sometimes spasmodic, some-
times gnawing and biting, and not infre-
quently of a vague, indescribable character,
and yet very distressing. Sympathetic with
this is a sensation of itching at the nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the nose,
which is characteristic of the affection. The
bowels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in dysentery. The appetite is
exceedingly variable; in some cases natural,
in others deficient, craving or depraved, one
condition not infrequently alternating with
another. The abdomen is bften hard, swollen,
and tympanetic, the breath heavy or foetid,
and tongue furred, with disagreeable taste,
and a copious flow of saliva; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms. The
effects, however, often extend beyond the
alimentary canal, and various derangements
of health are experienced in consequence,
either of the direct irritation of the worms
or of the disordered digestion which they
occasion. Among the most common of these
are nervous affections, such as fretfulness,
irritation of temper, wakefulness, or disposi-
tion to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep,
sudden starting out of sleep as if from
fright, dizziness, spasmodic movements of
the eyelids, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infrequent
in children, and symptoms strongly resemb-
ling “Water on the Brain” have been
ascribed to worms, and have ceased on their
expulsion.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
compounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication of worms which infest the intes-
tines. They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms, but cause no injury to
the stomach or bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared in
the form of a confection or lolly, have no
disagreeable taste or smell, but, on the con-
trary, inspire children to take them as they
would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. 11. Comstpck Co., ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Price
4/- per packet (six packets 23/-), post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
;iA°'
0
o
s>*
o
\o e
( 5 6
t\e v \s\ c
.-**
•••'' ••** .-**
0 t .•** .••*
•••
.•• ..• v> x V (it


It will pay you to make this decision
injjrour tyre buying:
ue
I will buy onlync leading
make of lyre"
THE leading tyre
in the world in
quality, value and
sales —is the Good-
year Tyre.
This is not a boast;
simply a statement of
fact.
As for quality , we ask
you to examine that
for yourself, at any
Goodyear dealer’s,
through the tests
briefly indicated on
this page.
As for the value ,
Goodyear Tyres have
definite superiorities
11l
‘ %
USt
nm
mm
Hr '
y.‘V / /■•• / »W .♦’ >»VV. vV .’■••■•••%••
p t
ww,
5&-ss»s:
sgsggs
5*5
sx*—v:.''
v»*«»****"' „v
EKE*
'''''..a”-"'--'.
:
'Xvx
that can be demon-
strated and proved.
As for sales, "more
people ride on Good-
year Tyres than on
any other make”, and
in both total and
annual production
Goodyear has made
and is making more
tyres —millions more!
than any other
manufacturer in the
world!
Why not resolve now
to reap the benefits
of saying, "I will buy
only leading
make of tyre!”
I The famous All-
Weather Tread is
superior in traction.
Press your hand upon this
tread. Feel the grip of the
deep • cut, sharp - edged
blocks placed in the centre
of the tread where they be-
long. This illustrates its
hold-fast action on city
streets and
country roads.
2 The Supertwist
Cord Carcass is
superior in vitality
and long life. Under con-
tinued flexing or sudden
road shock, where ordin-
ary cords fatigue or snap,
the extra-elastic Supertwist
Cords stretch and recover
like rubber
bands.
<KEfIHE|
p/CNRI
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
C 12-5
