

dďddfdfd
f
:
■
mm
jm
mm
. ,:■ '-■ .:•
®#®§a
mu
mm
START
MAKING
HOME
MOVIES
THIS ,
CHRISTMAS/
The family gift that keeps
everyone young —that tells a
priceless story of unending in-
terest Cine - Kodak! Home
Movie thrills last for a lifetime
_ see a demonstration before
the New Year. Prices from £9.
i '
&S
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND
KODAK
(AUSTRALASIA)
PTY. LTD.
~q Street Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl ; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane
37 R™“e Stleet. Melakle; *S Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street. Perth ; Ruthven Street. Toowoomba
3 rvuiiuic * EaJt Street, Rockhampton; Flinders Street, Townsville.
Ale Kv KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 40 Princess Street, Dunedin
* ° ' 294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
Cine-Kodak-—j or only £9 you oan start, on
Christmas morning with the most fascinating
of hobbies—-the making of living, moving
“pictures” Prices: Cine-Kodak, Model B,
f/6.5, £9. Other Cine-Kodaks, Model B, £l4,
£35
Then there are the new Model BB Cine-
Kodaks at £BB—these are equipped with the
unbelievably fast f/1.9 lens, and are adaptable
to Kodacolor movies in natural colors—and to
telephoto, giving interesting close-ups of distant
action.
The Bulletin
/Vow, Wicvt mu l it P&aMy a&L aJUut P.B.
Vol. 52.—N0. 2706.
Wednesday, December 23, 1931.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post, as a Newspaper.


GIVE BOOKS FOR XMAS.
gEND for our 72- page Xmas Catalogue.
Sent, post free, anywhere.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Journalism
at how:
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOfT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
inn cif..n
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 7 '
My Name ...
Mr Address .
S.B. 181 ....
10
U
T
I
G
U
R
,—AL—
.SOAP-PURE
TALCUM—SANATIVE
OINTMENT —EMOLLIENT
“THE ACE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sab's in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does ev-fcnly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Rawing the Steeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Aiistralian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT^
IDLRECTMEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE.
2 HUNTER STREET.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and ' stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily*
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
SENp YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Every where— all over the State, in Town
ainl Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of tbe-. pepple, and
each issue is eagerly lead by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 I’it.t Street.
Melbourne Office; “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Af'f' AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at, home. Australians are cordially
invited to'-visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander’ Reading-room at the offices,
414-3 7 Australia ii'ouse, Strand, Loudon,
W.C.2, where they cap see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 850 George Street, Sydney;
or 484 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
V*
#
s
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER" is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
THE EXAMINER" is in its 90th year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Pull information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and “Set
Evening Express” obtainable from
w. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launcest6n.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kejnbla Buildings,
avga ret Street, Sydney
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
The Uses of Poetry
What is the province of poetry? Chaucer
used it to embellish amusing yarns, and
John Masefield, who stands nearer to the
master than any Laureate England has had,
employs that method in Minnie Marlow’s
Story, and Other Tales and Scenes (Heine-
mann; 7s. 6d.). He has taken a number of
legends, twisted them to suit his purpose,
and presented them in verse which some-
times peals and sings like golden bells,
and anon sinks to the level of pantomime
doggerel. “Richard Whittington” is an
interesting example. The future Lord
Mayor reveals his origins:—
When I was but a babe my Father died
In the Great Death, with half his folk beside.
My Mother married with another man;
A bitter time for me then soon began.
Not being wanted in my Mother’s home
And bating him she loved I used to roam.
So here I came to learn a Mercer's trade
This hs the fo’rteenth year that I have stayed.
Mistress Mercer, the villainess, casts him
out: — '' . ,
I here dismiss you both from works and shop.
Go venture with the sailors like your cat
Or after Alice as the swallows do."
The worlds your mistress now: I’ve done with you.
Forth with you to the beggary and rope
Henceforth to be your portion as I hope.
All seems lost when Mapongo enters —
“Mapongo of Mapongo City on Mapong’
Lagoon” (gorgeous line!), whose country
was saved from a plague of mice by the
offspring of .Richard’s prolific cat. In addi-
tion to “one ton of gold-dust, one ton
solid gold,” the grateful savage has brought
his preserver:—
Ten emeralds of Sarras, each as green
As hawthorn leaves in April when first seen.
Ten rubies of Katanga, each as red
As dog-rose berries when the rose is dead.
Ten sapphires of Solyma, each as blue
As Heaven is to girls when love is new.
Ten alabaster caskets of cut stones,
Amethysts, beryls, jacinths, chalcedones.
Ten sherris sapphires color’d like cut corn;
Ten moon-spikes of the icy unicorn.
Richard asks 'Alice to many him: —
Alice :
I love you so dearly I need not the words but the
love. \
M Richard:
O lovely belov’d, you are beauty and hope and all
peace;
Alice :
You are gladness and comfort without whom all
comfort would cease.
Richard :
You are joy beyond telling and glory that thrills
like the sun.
Alice :
You are desolate days put away and a new life begun.
And so the exquisite litany proceeds to its
rapturous end. Drama, social satire, shrewd
characterisation and robust fun mingle with
glorious melodies in these tales. And they
are as easy to read as a best-seller.
But poetry has other uses. Dumas said
the principal business of literary art was “to
instruct, to moralise, or to correct people'.’
Xearly all the imaginative writers of Vic-
toria’s day thought the same, and so did
those of other notable English eras, always
excepting . the Restoration period when
Shakspeare was considered uncouth. There
are moderns who get liQt under the collar
at any suggestion that art may be legiti-
mately used for propaganda purposes; yet
writers as eminent as Galsworthy continue
to sermonise against war, cruelty, social
injustice and the like, and they have hun-
dreds of imitators. For example, those
who are represented in Unrest, 1981 (Henry
Harrison; 6s. 6d.). which is an anthology
ot the best revolutionary verse of the year.
Most of the singers are Americans, and
obsessed by such local problems as bought
Judges and lynch law.
Lynch.
They looped it to a cotton-tree,
A jerking staff of ebony. >
Three score and ten against a thing
For which some wench had rather swing
A-dangling from the crooked limb
They took a few potshots at him.
With milling hooves and many cries
They watched the way a nigger dies.
And when they left the thing alone’
Justice sate her damaged throne...
God mould that staff of ebony
Into a rood for seventy.
There are some chunks of enraged prose,
tortured to look like verse, about comrades
who have been executed or imprisoned, and
many lugubrious protests against the mono-
tony of a machine age. Nearly all these
outpourings are spoiled by their casual
technique. 1 o be readable a poet must
concentrate desperately, and have the
mental muscle to do it with. These worker-
poets are sincere, but few have the capacity
to work hard with their brains.
Remains the poetry that is written for
no other purpose than to delight. There
are scores of examples in Minor Poets of
the Seventeenth
Century (J. M.
Dent; Everyman’s
Library), which has
been edited and
provided with an
able introduction
by R. G. Howarth, an Australian. The Eliza-
bethans and the Carolians sang as -the birds
do; it was their natural way of expressing
emotion. For that matter, they sang
sweetly, if a little self-consciously, when
they were not moved at all. This book
contains all the well-known gems of Carew,
Suckling and Lovelace, and some lyrics that
are new to this critic.
Alan D. Mickle, whose The Poor Poet and
the Beautiful Lady has just been published
by Jervis Manton, is in the Elizabethan tra-
dition. He is a natural musician in words,
who devotes the utmost pains to his art;
he is concerned with such tearful matters
as unrequited love, and he has an abiding
sense of beauty. The sonnet is his favorite
torm, and he can paint a portrait:—
Elizabeth.
Red-haired she was, and had a shrewish tongue ;
Sharp-featured, plain, shrill-voiced, so we are told
She was ; she would when she was growing old
Still mince and make pretence that she was young.
Vain and ambitious ; to her friends untrue ;
Hungry for riches with a tight-clutched purse.;
Quick-tempered she would rage and Storm and curse
At any of her loyal subjects who
Won _ her displeasure. But they never scorned
This woman frail, who love-d to the last
Their England; and they very sadly mourned
" hen the bells told the nation she had passed,
Not the frail woman stilled for ave by death
But England's queen, the great Elizabeth.
He is less successful with his. “Verses in
Australian Slang”; but then no one except
C. J. Dennis should be allowed to write
such verses.
Red Page.
Prometheus Bound
Hunger and Love (Putnam; 7s. 6d.)., by
Lionel Britton, previously responsible for
a play called “Brain, ' is described as a work
of genius by such men as Shaw, Wells and
Bertrand Russell, and as tripe by such
critics as St. John Ervine. It was banned
by the Australian Customs, presumably on
moral grounds, and subsequently released
by the Federal Ministry, presumably be-
cause they believed its sentiments chimed
in with their particular brand of political
theory. If so, the Minister concerned could
not have read much of it. Why our
censors should bother • about such a book
is a mystery. If free copies were placed in
the hands of every adult in the Common-
wealth it is doubtful whether the leaves
of one in a hundred would be cut for
more than a single chapter. It occupies 705
pages when it could have been better done
in half the number. The repetition of the
same motives becomes almost unbearable,
and the author’s endeavor to relate his
hero to such profundities as the molecu-
lar composition of his body, the weight of
the earth, the speed of light and the vagaries
of comets is praiseworthy but beyond the
achievement of an artist below the status of
a Shakspeare.
Nevertheless, the book is nearly saved by
the amazing vigor of the writing. In the
white heat of his indignation against the
existing social system Britton drops into a
James Joyce method of narration, but out
of the welter of words arises in almost
heroic proportions the definite figure of his
hero Arthur Phelps, a Cockney bom into
this hard world with no other equipment
than a mind and a desire to cultivate it.
He becomes a runner for second-hand book-
shops. and rises in the social scale until
he is made an inside assistant in more
respectable emporia. He speedily finds that
his employers have no use for his mind
except in so far as it may help him to sell
their wares. He is expected to know all
about the outside of a book, but his endeavors
to discover what is inside earn him the sus-
picion and dislike, of his fellow-assistants
and usually the sack from his superiors. He
struggles along, feeding his mind with odds
and ends of philosophy, history and belles-
lettres by tearing the pages out of books
and studying them surreptitiously in holes
and corners. His mind becomes a ragbag of
information which a State-school education
does not enable him to bring into any but
the vaguest relation to what ought to be.
but usually isn’t, the supreme problem of
every human mind, its connection* with
the universe. He seeks the key in conserva-
tive, labor. socialist, communist and anar-
chistic circles, but everywhere he finds the
ideal to be regimentation of other human
beings through dogmas and formulae which
are the negation of development. He seeks
harmony in love and is equally frustrated,
and in a final chapter, which reaches amaz-
ing heights of invective, he disappears in
the sea of murk and blood which started
to swamp the world in August, 1914.
If comfortable citizens want to know
what the social system which suits them so
admirably really looks like to the rare
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING:—Business Integrity.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns’
—where everything for the garden
COSTS LESS AND SERVES LONGER
/' u \
:
i '■*
P
STEEL FENCING WIRE
for homestead and station
“Iowa” Pattern
GALVANISED BARBED WIRE
Gauges 12 14 gauge
Approx, lengths
per cwt 460 735 yards
Prices £23/6/6 £24/8/3 ton
Prices 24/- 25/- cwt.
12|G. Special .. £24/7/9 ton 25/- cwt
14G. Special . . £25/9/6 ton 26/- cwt.
12G. Barbed,
2-cwt. coils 12/9
Galvanised Steel
FENCING STAPLES
Inches t x 1 4 £ x 1 4 f x 1 2 Ixlo 1\ x 9
Per cwt. .... 38/6 38/6 31/3 29/- 27/9
Per lb. ...... • -/5 -/5 -/5 -/4 -/4
Inches 2xB
Per cwt 26/3 26/3
Per lb -/4 -/4
WIRE STRAINERS
that are worth while
2 in 1 12/6 each
Walker’s 7d. each, 5/9 doz.
“Suregrip” . 17/6 each
Donald’s 24/6 each'.
Extra Segments 2/9 each
Extra Jaws . . 5/3 each
Extra Hammers 3/9 each
All prices quoted for Station
Supplies are subject to market
fluctuations. I
Location, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ssa
3/9 GALVANISED
WATER CANS
Now you can
afford to throw
away your old
can. These light
3/6
galvanised Watering Cans,
with screw-off nozzles, are
specially priced for keen
buyers.
Sizes 1 2 3
Prices .... 3/9 4/6 6/-
At Anthony
Horderns’ . . 3/6 4/3 5/6
“WIZARD”
HOSELESS
NOW AT
The
ordinary hose
is made obsolete
5/6
by the “Wizard” Wonder
Spray. Fits any tap, and can
be adjusted from a solid jet
to the finest mist.
Usually 7/6
Now at
Anthony Horderns’ .... 5/6
xxszt
151- STEP-LADDER
A step-ladder
proves its
worth over
and over
10/3
again it is indispensable in
the house. In selected pine in
two sizes, sft. and 6ft. Usually
13/- and 15/-. At Anthony
Horderns’ 10/3 and 11/3.
Your garden needs so much attention if it is to look
its best, and garden implements can be an expensive
item—if you don’t buy them shrewdly. At ‘"The
Senior Store’’ you buy quality tools that will last—
and prices are keen!
Shanks £13/5/- Standard
Lawn Mowers
A substantial chain-
driven motor that cuts
-CIO
JL tesJ
closely, works easily, and leaves the
grass like velvet.
Ordinary Prices—
-1 Oin. 12in. Min. 16in.
£l3/5/- £l6/15/- £l7/5/- £lB/10/-
At Anthony Horderns’
£l2 £l5/10/- £l6 £l7/5/-
64/6TRIUMPH LAWN MOWERS
NOW
601-
Improved Triumph
Lawn Mowers,
with ball-bearings
and five specially-
ground blades.
ď
Cuts closely and sharply, without the least drag.
1 Oin. 1 2in. 1 4in.
Prices 64/6 66/6 68/6
At Anthony Horderns’, Prices, 60/- 62/6 66/6
WOMIECH3S
2 9 “REGA”
ATOMISERS
An Atomiser is a garden necessity. Illus-
tration No. I features the “Rega” Brass
Continuous Atomiser, usually 7/6. Now
at Anthony Horderns’, 6/3. No. 2 is a Tin
21-
Atomiser, sold in two sizes, 2/9 and 2/-.
Anthony Horderns’ 2 ,
Now at
- and 1/9
f
30/- GARDEN SEATS
Picturesque comfort is added to the
garden by this sturdy seat, formed
from 12 hardwood battens mounted
on steel legs.
4ft.
Usually 30/-
At Anthony Horderns’ .... 16/9
16/9
6ft.
33/6
19/6
Expanding
Pine
Trellis
OPEN.
CLOSED
Trellis work, properly placed, can add charm and
dignity. This expanding trellis, constructed with finest
selected pine, is sold in 12ft. lengths.
12 3 4 5 6 ft. high.
Usually 2/9 5/6 8/- 10/9 13/6-16/-.
At Anthony
Horderns’ . . 2/6 5/- 7/6 10/- 12/9 15/3
Department, Fourth Floor. Free Delivery .City arid': Siiburbs.
d
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal Address:
...W • .
Box 2712 c, GJP.O.


.rr
> vX>
*
C':
„4 l j
mk..
r- \
ISIS?
®ss : :
BKii ’ !
'Ac
HAMPION RESERVE;
PORT
VS
s= b oTTLED BY THE MAKFPc- s IWI
VfiOMAS HARDY B.SONS Wn9t
rvS-TR°A u "25 *
L PINT 6 FLUID
NET
OZS
M
Fortunate
Tintara
Z'' 1 OLD-tinted by the rays of a happy
sun, the broad Vineyards of Tin-
tara smile and gladden to a rich
success.
The dominating factors of purity and
excellence, which have achieved for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wine (Gold
Label) their enviable popularity, were
created on these glowing fields.
The fact that Hardys place these
very high-quality wines before the
public at such moderate prices
sets their competitors furiously
to think.
Procurhble at all Hotels and
Licensed, Stores which spe-
cialise in stocking the higher
grades of wines.
FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on “The Bulletin’s” Land page have
been reprinted and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a
thing about book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and
shown how accounts are kept. Every entry is explained in the
simplest and clearest possible language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a
proper basis and keep it there.
In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made
and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing
that he was going back a little further every year. Had he
known in time he might have made changes that would have
saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to
keep accounts is that they assume he knows something about
book-keeping.
The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers,
decided to produce a cheap textbook in which the whole
business of book-keeping would be dealt with from the very
beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within
the means of everybody. It will be sent from any “Bulletin”
Office for sixpence, to which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be
found just as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto
had only a foggy idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE
QUEENSLAND FORESTS
LIMITED
has already surveyed and classified on behalf of Bondholders over
One Hundred Million
Super Feet
OF MERCHANTABLE-SIZED TIMBER
READY FOR MARKETING
and on the Company’s forest estates
MANY THOUSANDS OF YOUNGER
GENERATION TREES ARE NEARING
MATURITY.
Early Marketing Plan Inaugurated
QUEENSLAND Forests, Limited’s
properties contain many millions
of feet of valuable timbers in the form
of full-grown merchantable trees ready
for market; and in order to effect pro-
fitable sales of these timbers, plans
have been completed by which they will
be brought under the notice of buyers
in the best of the world’s timber mar-
kets. Many of the varieties are of
exceptionally high quality, and to
ensure appreciation of true value on the
part of users they will first be prepared
in efficiently-equipped planing, veneer,
three-ply and saw mills.
Remarkable developments have # taken
place since Queensland Forests, Limited,
first introduced its Forestry Bond in-
vestment in 1927. It was at that time
estimated that a period of from twelve
to twenty years (1939-1947) would be
required to establish markets and com-
mence selling timbers on behalf of
Bondholders. Plans were made on that
estimate of time and funds were placed
in trust to enable the milling and mar-
keting departments to function in due
course.
Circumstances subsequently changed
the Company’s policy, namely, the pro-
pagation of seedlings, to methods more
suited to commercial forestation in
North Queensland —the purchase of
additional full-grown timber stocks and
the natural cultivation of young trees
already growing on the forest proper-
ties.
This change of policy has given the
Company the ownership of timber lands
carrying extensive stocks of merchant-
able-sized trees, and this ownership in
turn stimulated the idea of early mar-
keting, which was further influenced by
the decision of the Federal Govern-
ment to impose a highly protective
tariff in order to keep out fpreign tim-
bers and improve the demand for Aus-
tralian products.
The Company did not at that time
anticipate the trade depression which
subsequently shook the world, smash-
ing markets and crippling industry. In
consequence of altered trade conditions
now being experienced the whole mar-
keting policy has been reviewed, and the
Directors arc now in a position to state
that a trade demand for several classes
of timbers growing on the Company’s
properties will be created during 1932.
The Directors announce also that funds
are now being made available to the
Company for the development of mar-
keting facilities and towards the con-
struction of modern timber mills
equipped to produce floorings, linings,
weatherboards, parquetry, veneers, ply-
wood and other timber products.
TARIFF WILL OPEN
AUSTRALIAN MARKETS
T h e Commonwealth Government’s
highly protective timber tariff is con-
stantly increasing the difficulties of the
importer and forcing upwards the
price of foreign timbers. As the stocks
of imported woods are becoming ex-
hausted, and it is being realised that
they can only be replenished by Aus-
tralian timbers, those who in the past
have depended on. foreign supplies now
feel that they must look nearer home.
Herein lies the opportunity for creat-
ing a profitable market for the varieties
A Statement by
Capt. L. Macintosh Ellis,
B.Sc. (F.)
(Captain Ellis is recognised as one
of the foremost Forestry Engineers
within the Empire.)
The development to date of the
bonded lands of Queensland
Forests, Limited, can be viewed
with great satisfaction. The
assessment and classification of the
Company’s lands during the year
have disclosed that the money
values are even more substantial
than was anticipated by the
technical organisation last year.
Besides this increase, as a result
of the new Customs Import Tariff,
more than £lOO,OOO has been added
to the realisable value of the
Company’s holdings.
The construction by the Main
Roads Board of the Millaa Millaa-
Innisfail main highway, which
intersects the Company’s holdings
in the Innisfail district, will reduce
the .cost of transportation of
timbers to a fraction of what was
originally anticipated.
The above are just a few of many
factors of development during the
year that have contributed to sub-
stantial appreciations in bond-
holders’ land and timber values.
that grow in such profusion in North
Queensland, but which have been kept
in the background because of the facili-
ties for getting foreign .supplies. The
best timbers in the world are available
from North Queensland, but the busi-
ness of bringing about the swing-over
calls for the expenditure of a good deal
of money and effort, and who will be
more greatly benefited by this important
undertaking than the bondholders of
Queensland Forests, Limited, of whose
timber stocks the Director of Forests
recently reported
“The ownership of this large volume
of standing merchantable and ex-
ploitable timber should enable
Queensland Forests, Limited, to ex-
ploit and hold continuous markets for
quality wood products in the south-
ern States and overseas. There is
no other corporate body in Australia,
with the exception of the Queensland
Government, that possesses such a
valuable asset of Rain Forest cabinet
timbers.”
A Few Original First Year Series Bonds
Available at £l2/10/- each.
These bonds assure a return of £lOO per bond plus a fully paid
share interest in the milling organisation. In 1927 these bonds
could be purchased Tor £5 each; next year they will probably be
offering at an increased premium. They offer a wonderfully sound
investment for the thrifty man and woman who desires to make
financial provision for the future.
Write for further particulars to
E. S. & R. C. MOULTON, LTD.,
representing
QUEENSLAND FORESTS, LIMITED.
Head Office: UNION BUILDING, 8 BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.; or at ROWE’S CENTRAL BUILDINGS,
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.


Transcending all Others!
MICK
SIMMONS’
Unrivalled Range of
GIFTS
FOR THE BOY
m
X
What better Gift for the aspiring young
emulator of the great Bradmanf
df
A Specially Autographed
DON BRADMAN’
JUNIOR.
CRICKET B AT
Specially Selected Willow,
treble rubber cane handle,
grips and distinctive binding.
Every Bat personally auto-
graphed by Don Bradman.
Size 4 17/6
Size 5 19/6
Size 6 21 /-
Size 6, 2 Crown .... 37/6
New Low Prices in
BOYS* CAN E-
AND RUBBER-
HANDLE BATS
WITH SPECIAL
RUBBER GRIP
Size 3 9/6
Size 4 10/6
Size 5 12/6
Size 6 13/6
AN AIR RIFLE
has an irresistible attraction for the average
boy!
King or Daisy Models (Single Shot) 10/9
King, Breech-loader Model, with
breakdown action 15/6
For the “Kingsford Smith” in the making!
MODEL AEROPLANES
Famous Puss Moth, Wapiti and Twin
Pusher Models. Perfect in every detail.
Wonderful flying.
5/6, 9/6, 11/-, 13/-, 14/-
“Ready to Build” Models, similar to above,
3/6 to 12/6.
For the lad with an engineering turn of
mind!
MECCANO OUTFITS
No. 000 . . 5/6 No. 1 22/6
No. 00 8/- No. 2 34/-
No. 0 11/3 No. 3 54/-
MECCANO HORNBY
TRAINS
12/6, 15/6, 18/6, 35/-
(Carriage paid on Sports Goods but not on
Toys and Novelties.)
All Letters to Box ISB, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd.
720-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
"The Premier Sports House of Australia.”
underdog who happens to be cursed with a
mind, they should read Hunger and Love,
or as much of it as they can stomach.
Britton subscribes to the philosophy of col-
lectivism, and he carries it to transcendental
heights whither it is difficult to follow him.
He envisages a world in which, everybody
having been given equal opportunity of
mental development, the collective mind
becomes the repository of all wisdom, and
mankind thinks as one unity and moves
in unison to higher and higher altitudes.
The analogy is with the human body, in
which all the cells help in fulfilling the
general functions. But there are anarchical
elements even in the body, and it is doubt-
ful, as Bertrand Russell points out, whether
the cells of cancer have the same attitude
towards the rest of the body as the other
cells. Moreover, the body does not function
properly at all unless it is under the auto-
cratic control of the brain, which is the
body’s Mussolini. It may be a benevolent
autocrat or a besotted tyrant, according
to its quality and the environment which
produced it. Arthur Phelps is himself an
exceptional individual, and is, in fact, the
negation of the author’s own philosophy.
He regards an archbishop (a chaplain-gen-
eral in H.M. forces) as nothing better than
a blood-thirsty savage, whereas to most of
his contemporaries an archbishop is the fine
flower of Christian civilisation. The world of
Leonard Britton may be a reality in an-
other 100,000 years, when eugenics has
equipped us all with A 1 minds; in the mean-
time the A 1 minds will have to continue
their struggle for freedom against the
attacks of the collective mind, ably assisted
by the Commonwealth Customs.
F.S.
A Ship’s Surgeon and a Bit of Bone
The real hero of T. Lindsay Buick’s
Mystery of the Moa (Avery and Sons;
155.), though he isn’t made to appear so,
is that very intelligent and very hard-up
ship’s surgeon John Rule, sometime of
Sydney. Rule wag never in Maoriland, but
his young friend John Harris was sent
there by the Sydney firm of Montefiore and
Co. to act as their representative in Poverty
Bay. On a visit to Sydney in 1837 Harris
sought out Rule, but that gentleman was
living frugally in Windsor. So Harris left
him a note and some Maori relics, among
them a prosaic-looking piece of bone of
which he wrote, “The natives have a tradi-
tion that it belongs to a bird of the eagle
kind, but which has now become extinct.
They call it a movie.” Where Harris got
that term “movie” from has never been
satisfactorily explained. Rule, who was a
very highly-qualified surgeon and M.D.,
studied the fragment of bone intently. He
compared it with all the osseous specimens
he could find in Sydney, and formed the
opinion that it was a fragment of the
femur of a large bird. He took it with him
to England when he returned in 1839, and
tried to sell it for 10 guineas. This effort
brought him in touch with the great Pro-
fessor Owen, who inspected the fragment
and declared testily that it was “a piece of
beef bone, such as is brought to the table
in a napkin.” But Rule wasn’t so easily
put off. He knew what he knew, and he
needed the money. How eloquently he
pleaded for a closer examination can only
be guessed, but he saw Owen many times.
Owen, recording these visits, refers to Rule
as “the individual” or “the vendor,” or, very
infrequently, “Mr. Rule,” though he must
have known that his importunate visitor
was entitled to his “Dr.” At last Owen was
prepared to “stake his reputation” on the
theory that the bone was part of the femur
of a large flightless bird, nearly as large
or as large as an ostrich—a briiliant piece
of deduction, but at least partly anticipated
by the despised Rule. But even Owen’s
say-so wasn’t good enough for the Royal
College of Surgeons, which flatly refused to
buy the bone.
In the meantime regular shoals of bones
had been unearthed in Maoriland, and
parsons Colenso and Williams, working in
ignorance of the Rule-Owen researches, but,
with a wealth of material at their disposal,
succeeded in proving right up to the hilt
the one-time existence of the largest of all
birds. It gradually became clear that, though
the moa could claim a genealogy stretching
back millions of years to the' Cretaceous
period, it was extant, almost certainly, as
late as the end of the eighteenth century.
Sir George Grey was a witness to two
important links of evidence on this point.
When he introduced a flock of emus to his
home on Kawau Island a Maori chief, Te
Hanara, made a speech to the birds. He
cried, and all the natives cried, for these
wingless fowls reminded them of old tra-
ditions, and of the proverb: “Even as the
nioa has gone so must the Maori go.” On
another occasion, on his travels, Grey con-
versed with a chief, Kawau Paipai, who
described how he, in his youth, used to
help to hunt and cook the moas. A member
of the party—not Grey, who would never
be so rude—cast doubts upon the yarn.
“Bring spades,” said the old chief angrily,
“and I’ll show you our oven!” Soldiers
dug, and unearthed a Maori oven five feet
square, heaped around which were charred
and broken moa bones. Skulls and thigh-
bones were broken, Paipai explained, so
that the fat might be extracted.
Since then there have come to light bones
with sinews, flesh and feathers still adher-
]ng; also several eggs. The order of these
wingless birds has been divided into five
genuses and 23 species. Mr. Buick has not
only sifted the whole of the written records
of the moa, no light task, but he has been
able, like James Drummond, whose pamph-
let “The Romance of the Moa” Haverses
some of the ground, to draw upon his
memory of what was told him by some of
the original investigators. The volume is a
scrupulously fair marshalling and summing
up of the evidence, aijd such generalisations
as are drawn from the facts are sound and
unassailable. Mr. Buick, an old journalist,
has an Attractive style of narration, and he
has made every chapter interesting to the
layman as well as to the ornithologist.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
A Satchel of Books
Our Fathers , by Alan Bott (Heinemann;
Bs. 6d.), consists of over 100.000 woodcuts
and prints which appeared in illustrated Lon-
don papers, such as the “Graphic,” between
1870 and 1900. The pictures retain their
original captions, and, by way of contrast,
the letterpress is sophisticated and modern.
There are witty and perceptive chapters on
“The Classes and the Masses,” “The Rise
of Sport,” “Intensive Invention” and so
on, and political developments at home and
abroad are also handled in a lightsome man-
ner. In addition to being extremely amus-
ing, Our Fathers has points as a work of
historical reference.
Madge Dudgeon’s The Laird of Letter-
arder (Cecil Palmer; 7s. Gd.) has been
written with an eye to a relatively small
class —those who have shot and fished in
Scotland: Elderly Sir Maurice Flood and
his wife (“Nature had intended her for a
pretty woman, but mistaken attempts at art
had rather discounted her efforts”) buy a
Ross-shire deer forest, and their Sassenach
inability to understand the natives provides
most of the comedy. After the unfortunate
0.8. E. has been humiliated to the dust by
a genuine laird (“with a D. 5.0., M.C. and
so many other little groups of letters after
his name that he lumped them together
under the general title of ‘etc.’ ”) he gets
rid of Letterarder and slinks south again.
Most Scots will agree that he deserved all
he got.
Beyond Hell (Hutchinson; 7s. Gd.),
by Stephen McKenna, starts well, but
concludes with one of the most improbable
happy endings in fiction. One gets an
impression that the prolific and accom-
plished author’s delight in his work petered
out about half-way through. The period
is ton years hence, when the League
of Nations has got capital punishment abol-
ished and the world’s murderers transported
to a volcanic rock in the South Seas. The
arrangements for their welfare have a sur-
face appearance of perfection, but the
colony revolutes and horrors occur. Some
shadows of old friends figure among the
characters —a Danton, a Robespierre, a
Charlotte Corday, a sex-obsessed cleric after
the “Rain” model —but they are only
shadows. The ooh-ooh stuff is not McKenna’s
line.
Andrew Soutar’s Thirty Pieces of Silver
(Hutchinson; 7s. 6d.) is unashamed bellow-
drama. Michael Stradde, the ruthless capi-
talist who corners the world’s silver and
sneers while victims of his greed destroy
themselves all over London ; “La Lune.” the
beautiful mystery-woman, who is adored by
peers and film-fans but, has eyes for none
but Stradde; the relentless Loewenstein, who
waits a lifetime to be avenged on Stradde;
Stradde’s wife, who was forced to marry him
though she loved another —these people no
more resemble human beings than the char-
acters in “The Face at the Window,” which
thrilled a generation that knew not the
talkies. Yet the plot is more feasible than
that of most thrillers, and it has a topical
interest. “Very soon,” says one of the
characters, “brilliant financiers will be com-
pelled to take steps to check the fall of
silver, and so save the silver-standard
nations from penury. And only by stabilis-
ing silver will they be able to save the gold
standard.” “Thirty Tieces of Silver” has
all the requirements of a successful film-
storv, including the name.
And a Little Verse
THESE DO NOT PASS.
Morn, to the mountains uprolled,
Eve, to the timorous vale,
Were gods to worship of old ;
Nor ever till earth be cold
Shall reverence fail.
Ages ere shepherd was known
Or steer in primitive plough,
Ere a golden field was mown
Or grape or olive had grown
On a tended bough ;
Gong ere the citadels high
Were earliest built by man—
Where beautiful youth must die
At bidding of gods gone by—
Their worship began.
Hills of the olive and vine
Are lost in desert and plain ;
Of the cornfield, once divine.
Of the sheepfold, sound or sign
To seek were in vain.
Cities and altars are gone
Under the sands and waves;
Names of the gods are unknown,
Peoples who perished alone
Forgot in their graves.
Morn, to the mountains uprolled,
Eve, to the timorous vale.
Still are the gods as of old
To souls that shine through the mould
Mortality’s veil.
They still have altars that burn
In the lands high and low;
Their blessings always return
To all who vision may earn,
Or the dream’s worth know:
Blessings of wonder and trust
Of beauty, or order born ; '
Best without rumor of rust
Endeavor untouched of dust,
Give even and morn.
M AORI LAND.
EUAN GAELLEON.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
M.T.: Almost anything can scrape into
the realistic poetry class ; but that first stanza takes
some dragging- to get it through.... Emrix: Pretty,
but trivial. .. .Fan: The end of the blind man doesn’t
happen naturally... .G.S.M.: Idea good; technique
sloppy E.8.P.; Tried your alibi on a policeman.
No g00d.... Brady’s Lookout:—
Big Edmund Wall was six foot tall
And inches six as well.
And how he came at last to fall
Is what I’m going to tell.
Not here, you aren’t... . T.V.S.: “Silly Song" would
be better. .. .J.H.S.: Your assertion that “bright
moonbeams dance on your dewie brow in their
glist’ning silver shoon” leaves us puzzled... .L.W.:
Not up T.V.T.: No swing or freshness in them.
....Hesperian: You’ve slipped a bit in this lot.
.. . .W.H.8.: Too esoteric. . . .C.H. : Too many Ameri-
canisms. .. .G.S.: You have been soaking yourself
in Edgar Wallace G.8.D.: Far-fetched...'. M.W.:
Ought to suit a paper catering for discontented
housewives.... H.G.G.: Ends in the air. .. . J.E.R.:
“The Lamb” hasn’t enough meat on it... . J.F.K.:
Better handled it might stand a chance. .. .C.M.:
No Australian interest. .. .R.H.: Try to make it
stronger A.F.C.: Didn’t like the mixture
C.W.J.G.: Would go better in England. .. .L.G.:
Give it a fly elsewhere... .E.P.M.: You worked
feverishly to build up suspense and failed. .. .T.J.W.:
No plot to speak of. .. .G.A.P.: Too much speech-
making and too little story. . . .J. 0.0. : Unconvincing.
.... H.L.: Old Ben’s a 105er.... J.W.H.P.: Have
another go at it.;.. J.0.N.; Boarding-house yarn
dreary; other gets nowhere. .. .S.H.C.: Du 11....
W.K.: A tenth-rate Deadwood Dick... . J.0.C.: Tired
of the yam spinners who need beer before they can
get going... .G.W.M.: No, it’s not metrical, and
the rhymes (“beyond—strong”; “seen—dream”)
are worse... .Bonehead : So be it... .G.K.0.: Slap-
dash doggerel... .H.J.W.: “I Will Ride No More”
duly received. And if you don’t write any more,
either, in that strain, we shan’t, be inconsolable....
E.W.N.: You’re a facile rhymer, anyhow, even if
you haven’t anything fresh to say. But why send
a Spring song in December?. .. .F.Z.: Worth saying;
but not at that length.... Straggler: You’ve put
the right brand on yourself, anyway. There’s so much
to say that this paper can’t find room for literary
wanderers.... 0.N.: Let him go on. He’s got an
ear, and that’s a fair beginning... .Rob P.: More of
the old sad gaiety C. J.C.: Promise in them. But
get away from time-worn subjects. . . .E. Batt: Never
seen it put quite like this before; but p’r’aps you’re
right—somebody must be: —-
Machinery, money, plus petroleum
Have caused the world disequilibrium,
Upset currencies and budgets far arid wide,
Made trade stagnation
Over all creation,
And produced a scoie of millions unemployed.
....Harriet H.: Too incoherent. But there’s imagi-
nation in it Lalage: Mush.. . .R.E.M.: Neal,
but too frail.... W.G.W.: If it were two Christmases
we’d have to find room for the P.S.:—
put the word ripe in before cherry it is a
Mistake like it is i will send you some more after
chrisermas there is a lot of grasshoppers here aiid
i seen a big brown snaik a few days ago old lang
is no good i keep a coppy of the poetry bavin is
not much better.
... .D.M. :• Hardly. .. .Gum Nut: But a last season's
nut. . . .F.D.S. : Bright thought—“experience is our
greatest teacher.” Adam said it to Eve on the day
after the fall. And your rhymes don’t. .. .C.J.C. :
Not in the prize class... .Esther R.: Now these are
mere literary exercises. Try something that you
really feel about... .M.L.: “Rain” has sweetness but
no strength. You fall down in your endings; see
if you can’t pack more punch into your last line
or two.... Grace L.: Too many shop-soiled tags—
“vagrant winds,” “God’s canopy,” etc Eva M. :
There is nothing new under the sun ; but the writer’s
thoughts should beguile the reader into dreaming
that there is Hugh G.: You haven’t got much
to say yet; but you say it nicely and compactly....
M.J.S.: Close up. Has vividness. And that’s a
very good start Alary R.: You mar a natural
sweetness with drab words. The first line is
thoroughly bad; the third-last line quite g00d....
Jacmac: Yes, we’ve cursed the alarm clock ourselves.
We remember one morning particularly when we
were just on the point of breaking the bank
at Monte Carlo A.N.W.: You’re another wet
week-end. Even your trees moan at their prayers.
Greg S.: A bit too bookish. But it has merit.
....Crogan: Don’t know why you did it.... Eileen
P.: “House” covers too much ground for its value.
....A. de P.: We only got the pip.... Abe G.:
One verse to let th e lady of the house know (hat
she’s under observation :
The life of the hawker is pretty rough,
Though he does his best to be happy ;
The women he meets at the doors are tough,
And some of them pretty snappy.
. ...W.L.C.: Nobody outside the Commonwealth is
bound to accept Australian notes even at a dis-
count. They are just goods, to be haggled over like
any other perishable commodity... .P.H.8.: Barton,
O’Connor and John Downer were the drafting com
mittee appointed at the first sitting of the Con-
vention in Adelaide. Kingston was the president. .. .
M.M.C.: An idea in “Salt” ; might be worth working
0n... . Marcelle: To which we add :
The radish and forget-me-not
They bind us to our own dear cot.
D.L.M.: But why dig that up? Haven’t we
got enough things to be miserable about?
M. Powell: Sentiment as old as the gypsy’s warning.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CO RRESPON DEN lb.
R.Y.T.: He loses himself in a maze of lines....
J.M.: Open up your work more and balance the
figures... .M.J.W.: Its hash was soon settled....
J.F.N.: Wild and woolly P. 8.: Just a little on
the wrong side of the fence R.C.L.: Art will not
swell your bank account C.N.: Arrangement of
lighting wrong H.D.: Kind of stuff that breaks
a blockmaker’s heart M.S.W.: Drapery drawn as
if it were corrugated-iron.... D.8.J.: Sketched on
the side of a starch packet, and appropriately stiff.
. ...W.T.P.: You have given the lady a giants legs.
. ...E.8.H.: Never a Christmas passes without Santa
being caught kissing the slavey... .F.M.: Too
ambitious for your ability R.S.; Overcrowded and
stiff... .A.A.C.: They bear the signs of heavy labor
and many erasions.... D.G.: If it’a a good likeness
you show promise, but the subject is not important
enough... .F.J.R.: Hands don’t look like toasting
prongs and legs don’t resemble drainpipes
D.M.: Gag hasn’t snap enough... .C.P.W.: Calls for
neither bouquets nor brickbats... .W.C.11.: Just
scratches.... C. J.C.: Still biting off more than you
can chew S.C.W.: No polish in the art; no
sparkle in the gags.


<3fycffL st/lid


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2706.
December 23, 1931.
BLACK BROTHER HAS AN ELECTION.


The Bulletin
Hie National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 Qeorge Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 Ijs.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for l,oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
EXIT SCULLIN.
Australians have told the weakest and,
because it was the weakest, the most danger-
out of all their Federal Governments that
they will have no more of it. They have
routed alike the Labor group that stood
for inflation and the one that would supple-
ment inflation with interest default —though
it threw a veil over its interest-default
“policy” during the election period. For
the next three years at least there will be
no political control of banking and cur-
rency, and hence no danger oi a disaster
immeasurably greater than the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Savings Bank smash, wicked
though that was and the cause of so much
suffering to thousands of honest folk. The
mass of the people have read the lesson of
that infamous business aright, and have
seen through the pretence that the way out
of our difficulties is to make two banknotes
grow where one grew before and (as urged
by the Langsters) swindle our creditors
into the bargain. They have proved them-
selves worthy of the franchise; they have
voted wisely.
There have been six Federal Labor Gov-
ernments, and not one has survived a
single Parliament. Mr. Scullin led the
greatest majority that the party ever had
in the House of Representatives, and with
Mr. Scullin it has drifted to its most
crushing defeat. The 18 supporters of Mr.
Scullin whom N. S. Wales elected in 1929
have dwindled to two; at thS most, three.
The Treasurer was defeated in Dailey, the
Minister of Markets in Hume, one of the
Assistant Ministers in Gwydir, Mr. Rowe
in Parramatta (where Mr. Stewart, whose
’buses have been driven off the roads by
the Lang Transport Co-ordination Board,
won the most signal personal triumph of
the campaign), Mr. Coleman in Reid, Mr.
Long in Lang, Mr. Tully in Barton, Mr.
Cusack in Cowper, Mr. Gibbons in Calare
and the elder Riley in South Sydney. In
Mr. Scullin’s own State his forces were
overwhelmed. He lost his Attorney-General
in Batman (a seat held by that gentleman
since February, 1911), his Minister of
Health in Wannon, Mr. Crouch in Coranga-
mite, Mr. Jones in Indi, Mr. Keane in
Bendigo, and Mr. Lewis in Corio. He will
have only Dr. Maloney and Mr. Holloway
for certain in the new Parliament; even
Mr. Anstey’s return -was still in doubt on
Monday. The U.A.P. and Country-party
majorities in Victoria were in most cases
tremendous. In Flinders two years ago Mr.
Bruce was 305 votes to the bad; this time
he will be at least 23,000 to the good.
In Queensland, more because of reaction
against the State Government than through
any love for the Federal Ministry, the Scullin
faction gained a couple of seats. The other
States rejected it emphatically. Mr. Yates
is gone in Adelaide, Mr. Lacey in
Grey and Mr. Curtin in Fremantle. And
Tasmania, by turning out ex-Minister
Culley in Denison and Mr. Frost in Frank-
lin and re-electing its other three members,
will send a solid U.A.P. bunch to Canberra.
It is also certain to elect three anti-Scullin
(and anti-Lang) Senators, as likewise are
N. S. Wales, Victoria, South Australia and
Westralia. Only in Queensland is there a
possible chance for the Labor candidates for
Senate seats.
The defeat of the Lang-Beasley group
was equally decisive. This faction ran 23
candidates for the House of Reps, in N. S.
Wales and five' in other States, and was
outvoted on the first count in eveiy elector-
ate except West Sydney. And West Sydney
would probably have been wiped off the
electoral map had there been a redistribu-
tion of seats, as there should have been—
it has only 34,853 electors, as against 74,165
in Reid, 70,481 in Barton and 70,183 in
Parramatta. Even in Mr. Lang’s own
strongholds of Auburn and Granville, em-
bodied in Reid, the Lang candidate was
behind the anti-Lang candidate, though he
will win on preferences. The five hapless
Langsters in the other States lost their
deposits.
Australia’s position may be likened to
that of a man who, having lived without
taking thought for the morrow and got into
difficulties, puts a swag on his back. A long
hard road stretches ahead. The man sets
out, therefore, to take what is coming and
hoping for the best. He is honest, though
he has been improvident, and he turns
away with loathing from bad characters who
suggest that he can get an easy living by
splitting notes in two, or by doing a variety
of the purse trick, or by bailing up people
on the road and robbing them. That is
the real Australian spirit, and it was nobly
expressed at the Commonwealth election,
let knaves and fools interpret the result
as they please.
WELL, WHAT WAS IT ALL ABOUT?
Looking back over the election campaign
it is easy to trace a distinct line of thought-
cleavage, with, of course, fissures running
from it in all directions; and it corresponds
pretty closely with the cleavage in most
white countries. During and following the
war prices of commodities reached unknown
high levels, and wages rose with prices. Two
and a half years ago these prices began to
fall, and in place of high records low
records have since been established. But
labor, unionised as it never was before,
politically and otherwise, has been largely
successful in resisting a reduction of wages
to correspond with the fall in prices. In
past times the pressure of unemployed
upon the labor market would have produced
a readjustment; but on this occasion the
extension of the dole, coupled with the
influence of the unions and in some cases
with industrial legislation, has relieved that
pressure. But the dole means a vast addi-
tion to taxes and therefore to the costs of
industry, the millions of unemployed con-
tinue to grow, and there is no clear light
ahead. So Australia, in common with most
of the white countries, finds itself divided
by this great line of cleavage. On the one
side are those who say there is no escape—
we must adj ust our costs to the low prices
ruling in the world’s markets. On the other
are those who insist that, no matter what
else happens, wages must not come down.
The position of Australia is in one respect
extraordinarily difficult. With utter disre-
gard of the consequences, and in spite of
warnings, it continued to do two things—
it borrowed enormously from abroad and
undertook to pay interest, etc., in gold or in
sterling; and it paid very little attention
until recently to the development of second-
ary industries, and, indeed, of many such
primary industries as the production of rice,
tobacco, tea, jute, flax and coffee. It is
therefore not a self-contained country; it
must export largely to pay its overseas bills
and to keep many of its industries going.
Over the markets in which it must sell its
staples it has no control whatever. It has
to compete with its lowest-priced, probably
because lowest-wage, competitor. If it were
entirely self-contained, under no compulsion
to either export or import, it could fix
prices and wages at whatever level it
pleased. But with no control over its
markets it obviously cannot maintain prices.
In those circumstances it would seem im-
possible to maintain wages either. There are,
however, those who insist that it must be
done. Can it be done?
Well, at least it can be attempted. The
crude way of doing something in that
direction is by the repudiation of overseas
debts. That would at least help us to be
more self-contained. But it is a dishonest
and disreputable way; and creditors have a
nasty habit of hitting back. Besides, repudi-
ation will not make us self-contained: we
have cut our imports to the bone and we
still find it necessary to go to foreign
markets for 50 millions’ worth of goods a
year, while our foreign interest bill is only
30 millions. So even if we repudiated we
should still have to be a large exporter,
dependent upon the foreign markets for the
sale of staples to pay for our purchases.
Hence repudiation, even if we dared prac-
tise it, would not get! us out of our difficul-
ties.
Inflation might. The aim of that would
be to buy in one currency and sell in
another—especially to buy labor in one and
sell its produce in another. There is no
disputing the temporary benefits of this
policy. We have been practising it for
12 months: we have been selling our wool
and other export products in sterling or
gold, and we have been paying in Aus-
tralian currency worth anything up to 45
per cent. less. But the community is none
the better off directly, though it may be
indirectly. It is a subsidy paid by some
for the benefit of others; yet since those
who are subsidised might not be able to
carry on without the subsidy, the com-
munity may be better off even though it
contributes. Up to a point the community
generally does not know that it is contribut-
ing; and since that tends towards industrial
peace it is an advantage. But inflation
through exchange will not carry us very
far—is, indeed, regarded as so poor a thing
that it is not very generally regarded as
inflation at all. More than that is de-
manded ; the trouble is that nobody
knows how much more. And, after all, it is
merely a trick—a trick to deceive the
creditor (including the worker for wages)
into believing that we are paying him a lot
of money whereas in fact we are paying him
very little. Carried to its ultimate con-
clusion, as Germany carried it, it is admitted
to be robbery on a colossal scale. It is
not easy to see how, if that, is so, inflation
on a small scale is not robbery on a small
scale. Yet, so far as The Bulletin can see.
there is no other way of paying high wages
on low prices.
Thus far we have been thinking only of
Australia—a mere handful of people, in the
remotest part of the world, with no more
influence upon the markets (except for
wool) than the fly upon the wheel. At this
moment two travellers at the back of Angle-
dool have thrown down their swags and
over a billy of tea are settling the affairs of
Australia. They may be the nation’s wise
men, those two philosophers of the track;
and it is their right to endeavor to convert
Scullin and Robert Gibson,, and Theodore
and his friend Lang, and Davidson, of the
Bank of N. S. Wales, and A, G. Huie. But
meantime the pair have just got to accept
the situation. And that is what Australia
has to do.
But as the two wise men of Angledool
have the right to call on Mr. Lang and
Mr. Lyons to do this or that, so Mr. Lang
and Mr. Lyons have the right to call on
the world. Mr. Lang may have the solution
of the problem. The gold standard may
have broken down, and the goods standard
may be the great idea, though it has been
examined and pushed aside again and again
in the last 150 years. But, whatever changes
are adopted, it may be taken as certain
that they will be the result only of thorough
discussion and will not be made violently.
No change which we could ourselves make
would be worth tuppence. We can change
our currency if we please; but any change
will not affect in the smallest degree the
currency of the country in which we have
to sell our products.
The world’s problems are tremendously
interesting, and such knowledge as we have
ought to be thrown into the pool for their
settlement. Meantime it cannot be too
clearly understood that we are at the
mercy of the world. We cannot escape the
consequences of our past policy by any
honest means whatever. We can partly
escape them by default and repudiation; or
we can make a pretence of escaping them
by the trick of inflation, practised under
one of its many disguises. And no more.
LANG HAS ANOTHER PLAN.
The tale told by politicians about the
Sydney Harbor Bridge was that it would
cost about five millions and be a money-
spinner from the day it was opened. Now
the outlay (including repurchase of land at
boom prices) is expected to be just on 10
millions, and a running loss of half a mil-
lion a year is talked of. It is admitted that
the loss will be substantial even if, as is
proposed, motorists are charged a toll, with
cost of petrol added, greater than they now
pay to the ferry company. Commissioner
Cleary said in his dolorous report for 1929-
30 that the city electric railway was “esti-
mated now to cost £6,966,000. In addition
to this cost, the railway accounts bear two-
thirds of the cost of the Sydney Harbor
Bridge and approaches.” Working expendi-
ture on and revenue from the completed
sections of the city railway are not given,
but no doubt these sections contributed to
the general railway losses of £3,852,000 in
1929-30 and £5,221,000 in 1930-31, with no
allowance made for depreciation.
Now Lang tells his mugs that, “to relieve
unemployment,” he has arranged with a
Melbourne concern for the completion of the
city railway and the construction of another
underground line to the Eastern Suburbs.
The cost is to be eight millions, “payable
in bonds guaranteed by the Loan Council,”
on which Lang has one vote, one out of
eight—nine, reckoning in the Common-
wealth Treasurer’s casting vote. The for-
mality of calling for tenders was dispensed
with, as in the case of the Shadier dole-
bread contract, being apparently regarded
as a capitalistic brake on the enlightened
representatives of a class-conscious prole-
tariat. Nor has precise information been
furnished as to what the Victorian syndicate
is to do for the eight millions.
In the Cleary report it was mentioned
that £683,150 was spent on the city railway
in 1929-30, “leaving a balance of approxi-
mately £1,650,000 to complete the work.”
This £1,650,000 was reduced by half a million
or so in 1930-31; the Auditor-General says
that “the city electric railway and electrifica-
tion of suburban lines (£2,173,697) and the
Sydney Harbor Bridge (£1,458,853) alone
account for half the total loan expenditure
during the year.” In the newspaper of which
Lang is a director it is stated that the con-
tract with the Melbourne syndicate is for “the
immediate building of the Eastern Suburbs
railway, as well as the Circular Quay station
and the remaining portion of the city rail-
way,” and that “the biggest section of the
undertaking is the building of the Quay
station, originally estimated to cost
£1,000,000.” The Cleary report gives the
“latest estimate” of the cost of the Eastern
Suburbs railway as £2,832,000, and the latest
estimate of the loss as £44,673 p.a. Allowing
a million for the Quay station, another mil-
lion for the unfinished sections of the city
line and three millions for the Eastern
Suburbs railway (although boom-time esti-
mates ought really to be cut 30 p.c.), there
are still three millions unaccounted for.
What service is to be rendered for the three
millions, and to whom?
“No other State in Australia,” bragged
Lang at an election meeting, “could get
£8,000,000 for the relief of unemployment.”
No other State has a Government that
would dare to enter into such a transaction
and—its financial reputation being as
rotten as a dead cow on the blacksoil plains
—ask the sister-States and the Common-
wealth to back its bills. The scheme was
brazenly used to catch the out-of-work vote
for Rang-gang Federal candidates. Theo-
dore, who was bidding briskly for votes on
his own account, promised to support it m
the Loan Council. Present indications are
that he will be denied the opportunity, but
if he should have it the representatives of
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, West-
ralia and the Speck will be forced to apply
their veto. Even if the threat to the suf-
fering taxpayers of N. S. Wales leaves them
unmoved, they cannot be unmindful of the
fact that approval of the scheme will in-
volve their States in responsibility for the
principal and interest, and that the impeni-
tent party seeking the favor worked an
interest swindle on them only this year.
“And what Labor did before,” as Lang
boasted at State election time, “Labor can
do again.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Lang and the Elections.
If John T. Lang had any regard for
democratic institutions his resignation
would have been already in the hands of
the Governor. We have no ordinary
machinery for a referendum or plebiscite
to ascertain whether a Minister or a
member still truly represents the people;
but Mr. Lang deliberately chose to appeal
to the constituency in last week’s Federal
election. He made the Federal fight a test
of his State policy. Indeed, he declares
that he has but one policy; his famous Plan
is his policy in all places. It was his State
policy, therefore, just as it was his Federal
policy, which Mr. Lang put before the
people on Saturday. He threw himself into
it with as much energy as he could have put
into a State campaign. And the electorate
to which the appeal was made within N. S.
Wales was exactly the same as that to which
he is responsible as Premier of the State.
Moreover, his opponents in the Federal
sphere are his opponents also in the State
And what was the result? Running a
candidate wherever there was the smallest
prospect of success, and in many places
where there was no chance whatever, the
Lang policy won five seats out of 28. That
his party did not win a single seat in an-
other State is of no consequence perhaps in
the present argument; nevertheless, it does
show that, outside the ambit of Mr. Lang’s
personal influence and of the influence of
the thugs who surround him, his policy
is regarded merely with contempt.
Mr. Lang, being Mr. Lang, will probably
hold on to office—and damn the people!
But what of his supporters? Are they all
traitors to democracy? Do they all hold
our popular institutions in such derision
that they are prepared to maintain a Minis-
try in office whose policy is shown beyond
all possible shadow of doubt to be at com-
plete enmity with the wishes of the people?
There could be no more terrible offence
against government of the people by the
people than that.
*There remains one other person who is
deeply interested in Saturday’s election—
Sir Philip Game. His Excellency will, if
he is as wise as a Governor should be,
read into the N. S. Wales results a com-
mentary upon his own recent conduct. But,
more important still, he will find in them a
complete guide to his proper course of
action should his principal adviser have
the impudence to again seek an increase in
his power to do further harm to N. S.
Wales.
A National Government Still Wanted.
There was call for a National Government
all through the past two years when Federal
Labor was in power; and there is call for
a National Government to-day. Many
unpleasant things have to be done, and
no one party ought to be saddled with
the whole responsibility of attempting
them. It is true, as The Bulletin shows
elsewhere, that there is a distinct line of
cleavage between the two great parties.
But the chasm is really not incapable
of being bridged. Admitted that Labor
insists there shall be no cuts in wages.
But the other side no more wants cuts than
Labor does. All it says is that cuts in wages
don’t amount to cuts if they are accom-
panied by cuts in prices, and that mainten-
ance of wages accompanied by inflation and
a rise in prices is a bogus wage-maintenance.
That this is so is a plain, demonstrable fact;
and there is little doubt that if Labor’s
leaders wanted to drive it home to their
followers they could do so easily enough.
That being so, it is possible for the two to
co-operate.
The great thing to achieve is confidence.
We cannot have abundant credit without
that; nor can we have brisk trade and
prosperity. Neither great political party can
of itself establish the indispensable thing.
Labor has tried and most obviously failed.
It cannot exercise such control over even
the unionised workers as is necessary to
establish complete confidence: as an in-
stance of that we have, in the State sphere,
the astounding strike against the statutory
reduction of pay at the Broken Hill water-
supply pumping stations and the abject sur-
render of the N.S.W. Minister for Works—
the Minister for Works being one of the
local members. And it is equally true that
Labor could defeat the best efforts of its


political opponents by active strike and
passive resistance.
So long as there is merely party effort
the tendency will be to play up to the
gallery where the votes are. In the just-
past election even the United Australian
party, though it professed to be facing the
facts, rarely faced all the facts. A\ e can t
reduce costs of production by playing tricks
with our currency: we can only get one
section an advantage over another section
that way. On the other hand, we dont
want to reduce wages—real wages, that is,
as distinguished from nominal wages. There
remains then only one thing to be done
to cut out all the superfluities and redundan-
cies. But all parties stopped long before they
could reach that point m their election
speeches. In the public service of this
country, piling up the taxation, there aie
tens of thousands of unnecessary employees,
many of them on the railways and other
services. We must provide for them else-
where. We have likewise to provide for tens
of thousands of entirely superfluous shop-
keepers, whose cost of living is added to
the burden upon the producer. The read-
justment is going to be hard and dangerous
work; and it is doubtful whether one politi-
cal party will ever have the pluck to tackle
so great a programme of reform on its
own account. And even if it had the pluck
it should not be required to do it, seeing
that the trouble is not of any one party’s
making.
Young Jim Leaves School.
In 50,000 Australian homes in the past fort-
night 100,000 parents have wondered what
they can do wfith young Jim. Young Jim,
always a problem, is more so than usual
at the moment. His dad is lucky to be in
work; young Jim would be more than
merely lucky if he could get work.
What is the best thing to do for the boy,
looking beyond the next few months?
The so-called professions have been very
popular during the last few years. Educa-
tion of the highest character rather sud-
denly became very cheap; and quite natu-
rally parents’ thoughts turned to those pro-
fessions which had been barred to them and
their fathers through lack of means to buy
learning. It was llierely another case of
distant fields looking greenest—of the thing
most remote seeming best. We are find-
ing out now that, after all, what we before
could not get was not so terrible to miss;
and already the rush into the law and en-
gineering and accountancy and architecture
ajid certain other professions is falling
away. They are not the prizes they seemed
to be when so many could not reach them,
and are worth far less now when so many
have reached them. The medical profession
is different. The course is long and the
earning of anything until it is quite finished
is rare, so that it has never attracted great
numbers. Though overcrowded at some
levels, it still apparently offers the attrac-
tion of substantial reward.
But if parents of modest means turn in
increasing numbers away from the profes-
sions, where are they to look? There are
three main avenues of employment—-trade,
industry, the land.
Trade will probably be what it has been
—the road to the greatest fortune! for those
specially fitted for it by nature. A man born
to trade can’t be stopped from trading.
Lack of money will not stand in his way;
nothing will except ill-health. Certainly a
man can be helped by training; but whereas
training will make a pretty successful
lawyer or farmer or clerk or most other
things, no amount of training alone will
make either a successful salesman or a suc-
cessful merchant. It is a poor life for those
who stay in the ruck; there are large possi-
bilities and always will be for those who can
get to the front.
But we have to look to the land and the
factory to absorb most of those of our boys
who do not drop into the coolie or casual-
labor class. Our chief national duty in the
matter is to prevent as far as possible the
growth of this class, which is a menace to
all the others and a burden upon them.
It has been chiefly to give this class employ-
ment that hopeless public works have been
undertaken and the public service has been
overcrowded, with the result that costs
of transport have grown outrageously and
taxation has taken most of the fat out of
the milk of industry.
There is urgent need for close co-opera-
tion between the primary and secondary in-
dustries to lessen this menace and this
burden. But instead of co-operating there
has of late been a disposition to drive in a
wedge between the two great bodies of pro-
ducers, to set them at the throats of one
another, and to let pass unnoticed the grow-
ing host of non-producers who are sucking
the life blood of both bodies.
What we ought to help young Jim to
realise is that, whatever he does, he can’t
expect to live as he has seen his parents
live in the past 10 years. It is not a cheer-
ful thing for parents to have to admit to
their offspring that they have been spend-
thrifts, living on borrowed money, and giv-
ing lOU’s for their children to pay; but it
is the simple, inescapable fact. The com-
ing generation has not only to do without
the borrowed money: it has to pay interest
which has not been earned. Thus far very
little disposition has been shown to remodel
our way of living. There are the same
extravagances, sometimes grotesque, some-
times merely foolish, sometimes wicked. In
a few years invention and progress may
wipe out all the handicaps which the folly
of the fathers has put upon the children of
to-day; meantime it is less important to
choose a career for the child than it is to
make it possible for him to be happy in it.
We can do that only by weaning him from
those habits of waste and extravagance
which the past 20 years have practised at
the expense of the next 20.
• ♦- ”
Low-wage Jobs.
The pastoral industry in Queensland being in a
parlous state, the pastoral workers’ award was
suspended. The Graziers’ Assoc, met in branches
and in most cases it was decided that, although a
drop in wages was imperative, the suspension must
not be abused. Generally it was agreed that a
minimum of 50s. p.w. for married men would be
adhered to; but we now find that a few are paying
30s. and less, while butter and vegetables have been
cut out from some huts. There are isolated cases
of men working for 10s. per week and some for
tucker. As a grazier and employer I say this is
to be deplored, and, if continued, can only lead to
evil results. —Resuroam.
A man has a paddock which might be im-
proved a little by grading or by a bit of
sand-shifting. He says to a couple of
travellers, “There’s a job, but it’s not
worth more than ss. a day to me. I don’t
want you to take it, but it’s there ready
for you at that price.” What is the real
position in a case of that kind? It is one of
our immediate problems.
First, of course, is the man a liar? Is it
worth more than that to him, and is he
merely using the necessities of the men to
get a job done for less than it is worth to
him? It was to prevent this sort of
exploitation that the first laws against
sweating were passed and the first living
wage was adopted. Unfortunately, though
the great majority of employers are decent
men who want to pay the highest possible
wage—and that is especially true of the
leaders of great industrial concerns —there
still are a few who are ready to take advan-
tage of human misery. Is it not possible to
deal in some wajr with these men while still
permitting the honest low-wage job to be
done?
There are thousands of jobs which, especi-
ally at this moment, don’t call to be done,
yet are worth doing at a price; and in view
of the vast amount of unemployment, they
ought to be made available at that price.
Had we organised our unemployed we
should long ago have sought to make a
catalogue of all such jobs, allowing the
best to keep the men going themselves,
and subsidising out of the dole such as were
not able to pay men enough to live on.
It is no use reviling men for refusing
offers of low wages; and it is not fair to
blame them in the mass either. The em-
ployer and the workman look at the matter
from two different viewpoints. The em-
ployer often has it in his mind that the
job is hardly worth doing, and he feels that
he is being something of a philanthropist
in making the job available at all; the
workman doesn’t know anything about that,
but he does know that there are employers
either unscrupulous or very mean who will
take advantage of the hunger of men to
screw down the pay another few pence; and
the more unselfish a man is the more will
he be disposed to refuse, in the interests of
his fellows, what looks like a sweating wage-
offer. The difficulty will not be got over
till we classify jobs; and that ought not
to be so difficult as it sounds. In the indus-
try mentioned by this correspondent, for
example, it would be quite sufficient if the
union of employers in the district certified
that a job was worth no more than so-and-
so. The average employer could be trusted
in this matter quite as much as the average
worker: as the resolution generally adopted
by the Queensland squatters suggests, the
average employer wants to show that sus-
pension of awards produces many good
results and no bad ones. Therefore the
employers as a body could be trusted not
to certify to low-wage jobs without justifi-
cation.
At any rate, no matter who does it, this
is something that needs doing: this digging
out of jobs which, though they cannot pay
full wages, can yet pay some; and it should
be accompanied by a system of certifica-
tion which will allow men to work upon
certain jobs without any scruples that
thereby they are" helping to bring down
wages. Rather, by accepting jobs certified
to be at the highest price which the work
can afford, they will relieve the pressure
of the unemployed upon the market, and so
help to sustain wages.
How Manufactures May Save Australia.
Ex-Prime Minister Bruce was in London
when the general election arrived, and by
speech and cablegram proceeded to do his
best for the importing interest. Tremendous
weight is put by all his kind on the assur-
ance of the new British Government that
a certain proportion of Britain’s wheat
requirements will be supplied within the
Empire. A regulated wheat trade is to
replace the old go-as-you-please, and it is
reckoned that, making all allowance for the
new policy of encouraging J. Bull’s home
agriculture, there w’ill be a larger and more
reliable market for the Dominions. But it
is clearly understood that John Bull won’t
make any serious increase in the price of his
own loaf for the sake of helping any
Dominion wheatgrower. And Australia
wants a very serious increase in the price
of its wheat.
It would be much better, according to the
importer’s logic, if Australia “increased her
production instead of maintaining her trade
balance by merely preventing imports.”
Well, everything Australia turns out in its
factories is production. A conspicuous
object of the policy of partially “preventing
imports” is to increase production by
making a market for our own products—
a market hitherto too much absorbed by
the importer. Other conspicuous purposes
are to provide employment and wages for
more of our own people, and to enable
the country to get along without either
external loans or valueless internal paper.
In the lexicon of the importing class,
“products” or “production” refer only to
the things which are dragged out of the
earth, and chiefly to those which have to
be sent abroad in search of a market. It
would be well if they could be “increased,
in value even more than in bulk, as the
Bruces assert, but how to bring the increase
about is a problem. A solution is anxiously
awaited. The Commonwealth's gold out-
put is about one-eighth what it was in
1903. The natural industry of oil produc-
tion refuses to get a definite start. And
the other lines of production, such as wheat,
wool and meat, can’t be relied upon to boom
even if one of them has a rather indefinite
assurance of a preference in the British
market, said preference to be shared with
the rest of the Empire.
This troubled land has no right to be
content with “maintaining its trade
balance.” It wants to get far beyond that
and commence paying off the huge debts
incurred for unproductive purposes by
foolish Governments. Australia has only
just reached the point of making its trade
accounts balance for a few consecutive
months, and it is still loaded with overdrafts
and unsecured paper issues. Yet already its
importing cranks urge it not to be intem-
perate in reform, and to haste to import
more goods, and unsettle the precarious
balance again with all possible velocity.
Christ on the Road.
Dear Bulletin, —Though I cannot expect
any man could see or understand what a
beggar actually suffers in the process of
begging (unless God had given him the
special grace to see it), I pan hardly let
pass the remarks of the Catholic priest m
B. 2/12/’3l. For they are in clear contra-
diction to Catholic social doctrine. The
Church recognises the right of the individual
in want to ask; and imposes an obligation
upon those who have to give. Nor does the
true spirit of charity follow up the beggar
co see what is done with alms.
The cold, impersonal charity which is
indicated as being part of church activity
in Brisbane, mentioned at the outset of this
priest’s letter, is the sort of charity which
I spoke of as being done in the name of
a cautious, statistical Christ. It is the sort
of charity that kills any feeling of gratitude
in the person who suffers it and produces
those very types the priest complains of.
The achievements of this sort of mass-
production charity sound impressive on
paper, but it is not, I imagine, the sort of
charity which the Founder of Christianity
ever contemplated.
Lastly, let it be said that this priest s
strictures upon the question of “cadging
money off the clergy” fall unconvincingly
upon my ears. Partly for reasons un-
merited (connected with my parentage), and
a little because of some things in life I
have done well, my name and record appear
in a publication entitled “The Catholic
Who’s Who” (London). And by reason of
this fact I receive on an average two beg-
ging letters per week from Catholic priests
throughout the world. These clergymen scan
this book in order to find out the addresses
of those whom they believe to be well off.
In times past I have sent something, how-
ever modest, to such as made particularly
moving appeals. I would have been wanting
in my duty if such appeals had passed
unheeded by me at any time when I had
more than sufficient for my needs. That is
all that I expect of others now. That is all
that I hope for for my fellow-men on the
But I realise that, in the final analysis,
charity (i.e., love) is a Divine impulse; and
a revelation which God does not accord to
every man.—Yours etc., Gad.
♦
Road Perils.
The Vic. National Safety Council and the
R.A.C.V. anticipated the Christmas exodus
by offering free inspection of cars in a lane
convenient to the city. Only a few hundred
motorists availed themselves of the oppor-
tunity, but if the average of results is any
criterion —and it ought to be—Bs p.c. of cars
prowling the State’s thoroughfares are, for
one reason or another, a danger to the
public and their owners and unfit to be at
large. “Pedestrians” in the shape of sacks
stuffed with rags were thrown in front of
the examinees, travelling 20 m.p.h., at
distances, for two-wheeled brakers, of 30ft.
and of four-wheelers of 60ft.; and 60 p.c.
of them made clean kills! Wheel wobble,
dazzling headlamps, groggy screen-wipers,
and one and another defect occurred in 85
p.c. of cases, and the condition of some of
the patients was tragic in the extreme. The
Safety Council has no authority to compel
the delinquent cars to immediately give
themselves up to justice at _ the nearest
garage, even when they have submitted
themselves for examination, and probably
most of the owners will go on trusting to
their luck. Those-who didn’t even trouble
to avail themselves of the free test will be
abroad as usual at the next week-end. In
TJ.S.A. policemen have power to stop motor-
ists and submit their cars to inspection at
an approved garage. If defects are found
the owners have the option of getting them
remedied on the spot or coming up for
trial in the ordinary way.
State Enterprise Crooks.
Had it not been for the Federal election a
bill which has just gone through the Queens-
land Parliament would have attracted much
more attention, since its purpose was to
wipe out the last remnants of the disastrous
public enterprises inaugurated by Labot
Governments in that State. The bill abolishes
the cumbrous department erected to ad-
minister the various undertakings, and,
incidentally, provide billets for voters of the
right ticket, and renders, or aims at ren-
dering, similar schemes impossible in the
future save by special legislation.
These enterprises left behind them a debt
of £1,437,143; and previously £1,067,795
had been written off and transferred to
the State Public Debt account. These,
less certain profits made, left the State,
at the end of the last financial year,
£2,397,577 to the bad on the series of deals.
What the adventure cost the State revenues
in terms of income and land tax and stamp
duty, which private enterprise would have
had to pay but from which the State enter-
prises were exempt, is incalculable.
More serious even than the financial
debacle was the deterioration of public
morale. It was and is a matter of general
knowledge in Queensland that when certain
cattle stations were purchased, the prices
paid by the Government were excessive. "When
the disastrous purchases came to be sold by
the Government which succeeded Labor, the
prices offered confirmed the general opinion
that the original deals stank of corruption
The moral is, of course, that State con-
trol of anything in the nature of a money-
making enterprise inevitably lends itself to
manipulation by the politician in power who
happens to be of the type which is ever- •
lastingly extolling State enterprise. If the
cash involved is not actually looted, poli-
tical capital is made of the voting power
vested in the hordes of employees which
State enterprises breed as carrion breeds
flies. This voting power being pandered
to and swaddled at the expense of the
remainder of the community, the ultimate
result is the same in either case.
The Strain on the Gold Standard.
According to current exchange rates and
gold price quotations, every country on
earth is off the gold standard. Measured
by the old sterling yardstick of gold at
£3 17s. lOid. per ounce (currency quality,
11-12ths fine), the English £, with gold at
£5 19s. Id. per ounce, was worth 13s. Id.
on Dec. 16. But it could buy U.S.A. dollars
or French francs of a gold value of 14s. 1.7 d.,
German marks of a gold value of 14s. 3d.,
and Canadian dollars of a gold value of
17s. 2d—and the U.S.A., France, Germany
and Canada are all, officially, firmly sit-
ting on the gold standard. Yet, measured
again by the old sterling yardstick, the
U.S.A. dollar and the franc could buy only
18s. 6d. worth of gold with currency that
previously would buy 20s. worth; Germany
could buy only 18s. 4d. worth, and Canada
only 15s. 2d. worth. As for poor Australia,
it is down to a 10s. 6d. basis.
When, in the old gold-standard days, gold
commanded a premium over gold-standard
currencies, it was held that clear proof
existed either that there wasn’t enough gold
to serve currency purposes, which involved
devaluation, or that there was a strong de-
mand for gold for purposes outside those of
legitimate currency requirements. Since the
Great War the use of gold as currency has been
hedged with many restrictions, some of which
have lent themselves to purposes not in line
with currency requirements. Certain nations
—France particularly and Germany to a
more moderate extent —have attached great
political value to the acquisition of gold.
Uncle Sam, as chief collector of war tribute,
has been deluged with gold for 13 years,
and has only recently discovered that one
can have too much of a good thing. France
and Fritz, both experts in the gentle art of
compounding with their creditors, have
grabbed gold with both hands while de-
claring to the rest of the world their utter
ruination as a result of the war. Fritz’s
visible reserves have melted somehow like
the snow upon the mountain’s brow, but
France and Uncle Sam still ostensibly
wallow in the yellow metal. Yet Sam is
putting up world’s records for Government
deficits and unemployment, and France’s
foreign trade is looking sicker and sicker
every day. It would almost seem that their
gold is making them poor.
The moral is fairly obvious. Gold held m
excess of legitimate currency requirements
is wealth buried in a napkin. It sets no
wheels turning, no arms working; it earns
nothing. And as soon as it is buried it
becomes a liability instead of an asset, and
a source of loss rather than a source, of
gain. Gold has been likened to the life-
blood of trade. To salt it down is bound
to make trade anaemic. As a Sydney bank
manager pointed out the other day, the gold-
standard game has rules, and if the rules are
disregarded it can’t be played. The rules
having been disregarded it isn’t being
played, and Rafferty is roaming round the
stage advocating the beauties of his cele-
brated code, under which two and two can
be made eight or even 80.
But though the gold standard is shaky on
its pins its condition can’t be remedied
by taking it right off them. It is a good
machine —so good, in fact, that it severely
punishes people who attempt to make
wrongful use of it. It probably is possible
to devise a still better one, but that isn’t
a job for Rafferty or anyone else who dis-
regards arithmetic.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
_ Directors:
. GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
M££ ARTHUR ON SLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
» u .u London Office—lB Birchin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ol
the world.
_ a —^ asees °* General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
wAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Mings
k £2O
£3O
£25
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are .still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Federal Labor’s defeat on Saturday was
the worst it has ever suffered. The party
won 17 seats at the first Commonwealth
election, 23 at the second, 26 in 1906, 42
in 1910, 37 in 1913, 41 in 1914, 22 in 1917,
26 in 1919. 29 in 1922, 23 in 1925, 32 in
1928 and 46 in 1929, increased to 47 by a
by-election success. This time it can’t get
more than 15 and may be reduced to a
dozen. The Langsters hope for 10 seats,
five of which are doubtful. But the Lang-
sters are only a Sydney mob; even the coal-
miners, much as they hate Theodore, showed
no enthusiasm for them.
“One of the first measures of the abilities
of political parties to govern the country
is their ability to govern, themselves. Their
leaders should be chosen with deliberation,
but when they have been chosen they should
be permitted to lead. A party which gives
itself over to factional controversy instead
of public service cannot command the con-
fidence of’the country.” Thus ex-President
Coolidge in an article in the “Saturday Even-
ing Post” (3/10/’3l). Looks as if the
axiom is just as applicable at Canberra as
Washington.
END OF THE SECTION
(concluded from last week).
“You did this!”
“No, YOU did it!”
Melbourne “Age” played a ludicrous part in
the Vic. elections. It supported Scullin
candidates for the House of Reps, and had
a ticket of its own for the Senate, placing
Kelly, the “Young” Nationalist (of 50-odd),
first, Guthrie second and Cameron third.
Cameron was first on Scullin’s ticket and
Guthrie second on Lyons’s, so the paper took
the precaution to be on one certainty. But
its “Young” Nationalist will finish down the
course. In the great days of David Syme
the “Age” ran ten candidates for the
National Convention and got them all in;
but Syme is dead and times have changed.
Labor votes have put Hughes in again.
Two days before the poll the “Labor Daily”
gave Billy a shock by coming out with an
article headed “Wriggler Hughes’s Hide,”
in which it declared that “no supporter of
the State A.L.P. would give Hughes his or
her No. 2 unless demented”; but in a
“How to Vote Labor” page, published next
day over the signature of Graves, the cam-
paign director, the faithful were instructed to
vote Nelson (Labor) 1, Hughes 2 and Cow-
per 3 —and did. The Theodore factionists
were privately bidden to put the little Digger
first. But Wentworth heaved out Marks,
and Warringah wouldn’t have Duncan, so
Billy is the sole survivor of the “Austra-
lian” party.
Theodore must have regretted a thousand
times that he ever came to Sydney. The
Herbert plum wasn’t, ripe for the picking in
1925, but. he had only to wait three years
and it would have dropped into his mouth
—as it did into Martens’s. But in his
impatience he invaded Dailey, knowing noth-
ing of the fierce Labor politics of Sydney,
in which strangers are apt to be hated merely
because they are strangers; and he has never
been out of trouble since. He is still a
power in Queensland, and after the Mun-
gana action lie could doubtless have got
a nomination for one of the seats which
have been gained, but loyalty to his followers
in N. S. Wales restrained him; they pointed
out imploringly that to leave them leaderless
would be to deliver them over to the Lang
gang. To give the man his due, he was
much the most interesting figure of the
N.S.W. campaign, and he hit back gallantly
at the pack who pursued him from meeting
to meeting, never once flinching or losing his
temper. He says he will retire, but if he
gets the inflation idea out of his head he
will come again.
Almost every week-end for seven or eight
months one or another of Lang’s Ministers
has been in Adelaide bellowing for the
“plan.” During the Leg. Council by-election
six Sydney Ministers arrived within a week
or so, and other Sydney advocates of interest
default, lesser but not humbler Parliamen-
tarians and union bosses, have descended on
the City of Churches by the dozen. Loudly
they boasted that Adelaide had been gained
for the Kawse. Adelaide gave them their
answer on Saturday. One O’Flaherty came
out as a Lang-planner for Hindmarsh, which
is mostly Port Adelaide, and definitely lost
his deposit. One Howard stood in the
same interest for Adelaide and is losing his
deposit. A third Langster contrived to be
late with his nomination-paper in Boothby,
otherwise he, too, would have forfeited his
£25. In Brisbane one Talty was recom-
mended to the electors by Flanagan and
other worthies from Lang’s caucus, and one
Pforr was similarly endorsed in Oxley. They
also sacrificed their “ponies,” as likewise
did the Langster who tried to win Melbourne
Ports —lie got 400 votes in a poll of 40,000.
Five Lang candidates; five lost deposits!
If there is one Commonwealth law that
Commonwealth politicians should respect it
is the one which says that States shall be
carved into equal electorates, except that
there may be one-fifth more than the quota
or one-fifth less. Yet the law has become
a dead letter in five States. Tasmania has
been the bright exception at the last three
polls ; at the latest there were 24,963 electors
in Franklin, 24,942 in Darwin, 24,151 in
Bass, 23,936 in Denison and 22,938 in Wilmot,
so the Speck’s five M’s.H.R. can claim to be
thoroughly representative. But the member
for Kalgoorlie will speak for 32,174 electors,
and the member for Swan, which adjoins Kal-
goorlie, for 54,408; the man from Grey will
have 38,142 constituents and the man from
Hindmarsh 55,699; and in three years,
as young people grow up, there will be a
greater increase of electoral population in
the larger constituencies. And the three big
States show even more glaring examples:
34,654 electors in Maranoa and 63,670 in
Herbert; 39,739 in Melbourne, 70,802 in
Flinders and 81,974 in Henty; 34,853 in
West Sydney (Beasley). 41,749 in Dailey
(Rosevear), 70,183 in Parramatta, 70,451
in Barton and 74,165 in Reid.
Defying the Hogan Ministry, Vic. Assem-
bly, by a majority of five, included in the
Unemployment Relief Bill (the fourth) the
recommendations of a majority of the select
committee of both Houses as to rates of pay
for relief work. Labor saved its face in
the Assembly by voting against the third
reading, but Labor Ministers had to pilot
the bill through the Uppish House. In
past years when self-respect had some place
in a Government’s make-up, it resigned
when defeated on a “principle” in a bill,
particularly a principle haggled over for
six months.
ELECTOR: “Well, you’re up a tree now,
Jimmy!”
PRIMINISTER: “I utterly deny it.”
The poor showing made by some of the
U.A.P. candidates in Queensland ought to
stir the State Ministerialists out of their
complacency, if anything can. The commit-
tee appointed in the terms of the reductiou-
of-seats measure has recommended the aboli-
tion of seven seats held by Labor and three
hold by Ministerialists,' the aim being to
level up the quotas; but that won’t make the
constituencies safe for the party in office, as
foolish members of it suppose. A party
meeting called in Brisbane last week lapsed
for want of a quorum. This indifference
may now disappear. There is still another
session in which to go about setting up a
second Chamber.
THE MANDATE.
LANG: “I can’t read the writing. What does
it say?"
TAXPAYER: “It says, ‘You keep your hands
out of my pockets.’ ”
Jimmy Mitchell’s Secession Referendum
Bill came to rather a dingy end. It weath-
ered the second reading in the Leg. Council
by the casting vote of President Kirwan,
who was careful to mention that his action
was dictated by Parliamentary precedent
only. On the third reading, after several
amendments, more or less irrelevant, had been
rejected, one was carried stipulating that
the referendum should be taken within six
months. For some reason this didn’t com-
mend itself to the Jeff Davises of the
Assembly, and after resultless negotiations
the bill was scrapped. The indications are
that even its sponsors were glad to see the
last of it.
Governor Game attended a prize-giving
at Armidale school and made some touch-
ing remarks about loyalty. The headmaster,
he said, had mentioned the article as being
prevalent in Australia, and his Ex. took
the view that the best way to treat dis-
loyalists was to ignore them —in other
words to let them slide. Still, if persons
talk revolution quite openly, not only pas-
sive disloyalty but the bloodsheddy sort, it
is advisable not to ignore them too violently
lest the ignoring party is taken, perhaps
correctly, to be of the same way of think-
ing. Communists in or out of Parliament
may say with a pitying smile that their
well-known connection with Moscow is a
lie to be ignored, but that is no reason why
his Ex. should ignore it and suggest that
others should do the same. Better to say
nothing about it.
“The worst days of depression are behind
us,” in the words of a report of the Sydney
Legacy Club ; there are better times ahead.
But if they are travelling too rapidly they
may be getting further ahead. Many a horse
in the middle of a race has seen better times
ahead because he was making such poor
time himself. If the worst days are behind
us they aren’t far enough behind —not by
10 years at the least —and if the country
stops for drinks and congratulations re-
alleged start that has been gained may be
lost again.
In the April-June quarter unionists sac-
rificed 35,218 days’ employment and wages.
Of these 23,696 days, or about 65 p.c., were
sacrificed in N.S.W., which has 39 p.c. of
the population. N.S.W., with Lang in charge,
is more peeved with things in general than
other States, which haven’t Lang, and Lang
seems a reasonable explanation. But the
crop of work stoppages was poor and the
horde of union secretaries, who are either in
the N.S.W. Upper House or on the mat pant-
ing for admission, are torn by conflicting
emotions. If they don’t organise industrial
disturbances they may appear as mere para-
sites drawing pay. And too many indus-
trial disturbances, added to the general un-
employment, may make it a struggle to get
the pay.
It looks as if N. S. Wales grows tired of
being the eccentric girl of the Australian
family. Its old identities have always posed
as owners of the “mother State”: or “mother
Colony” and claimed a sort of precedence,
rather to the disgust of Westralia, which
was never “mothered” from Sydney. There
has been a tendency to accentuate the
seniority by being Different—to lead the
way, even if it was the wrong way, jd
Thought. As an early example, N.b. vV. poli-
ticians started aNo Popery movement. lor
a while this and the Freetrade craze ran
together; in the latter days of Parkes, who
discovered the Pope lurking at hiama m
1868, to be a Papist and a Protectionist
were the same thing. In the process oE
mixing, and being Different, and leading the
way in Thought, the “Mother State has
lately taken the front place as the Commie-
nist centre of the. Commonwealth, but it.
shows signs of weariness.
Lang made the pace hot and breathless
in the last days before the Federal election.
He announced another default. The Gov-
ernment is no longer to pay rates. In places,
it owns so much property that if it stops pay-
ing its share of paving, lighting, drainage,
interest and other charges there will be so
little left that the municipality may almost
as well close up. Then Lang issued a sudden
intimation about how a Melbourne firm was
going to construct £8,000,000 or £10,000,000
worth of underground railway in Sydney,
and take payment in bonds. Country people
were staggered to hear that they were to
help to pay interest on another eight-million -
pounds city wild-cat. Sydney people were
staggered that the contract should be going
to a Melbourne firm without contractors in
Lang's own State having a chance to tender.
And the majority of people were staggered
at the proposal that the Loan Council should
put the name of Australia on the back of
a promissory note of such dimensions for
such a person.
Early in 1915 a strange bargain was made
with the Norton-Grifiiths' firm of contractors
in England to build seven N.S.W. railways
and some water- and harbor-works. _ The
firm was to underwrite and help in the
raising of £10.000,000 at the best rate of
interest possible, to spend what seemed
necessary, and to get 5 per cent, commission
on its spendings. The scheme burst after
two years because the British money
market wouldn’t find money for a public-
works boom when a World War was on
hand, and Norton-Griffiths had the goodness
to accept a solid cash consideration. The re-
semblance between this headlong affair and
the £8,000,000 or £10,000,000 railway-build-
ing bargain which Premier Lang professed
to have bolted into, just before election day,
with a Victorian firm of contractors was
remarkable. A railway to the eastern and
western suburbs was part of the loan
arrangement which Holman made with the
Norton-Griffiths concern.
“The first of the tin-hare joints to reopen had an
attendance of 14,000.”
ONE LABOR GENTLEMAN TO ANOTHER: “Look
at what we’ve done for them, Donald,
and think of what they’ve done to us!”
Hostilities have ceased in Manchuria, and
Lords Grey and Cecil, two of the staunchest
supporters of the League in Britain, give
the credit to the vast bureaucracy at Geneva.
As it is the depth of winter in Northern
China, however, General Frostbite has had
something to do with it. The League is
sending a commission of inquiry to the dis-
puted territory. The commission, will find
three large Chinese provinces completely in
the hands of Nippon. It having been made
clear that nothing more damaging than
speeches is likely to be fired at the Mikado,
the hopes that he will give up anything
important suggest that the League is the
world’s greatest optimist.
From W. W. Mitchell: —
In B. 25/11,/’3l it is mentioned that the nomina-
tion of an A.L.P. candidate for the Wagga Council
was rejected because he owed the council money.
As A.L.P. campaign manager in Wagga, I say that
Mr. Locke was legally entitled to be a candidate; he
holds clean receipts for the whole of his dues.
The 11 other A.L.P. candidates petitioned Mr.
McGirr to remove the r.o. and have the election
conducted by a police magistrate. Result, nil.
I wrote the Premier twice appealing for an investi-
gation ; also wired twice. Result, not even an
acknowledgment.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
ANOTHER TRIUMPH FOR SCIENCE.
“D’you hear Erica is marrying her X-ray
specialist?”
“Well, she’s dead lucky. Nobody else
could ever see anything in her.”
“O. de V.”: My neighbor Johnson smiled
in a superior way when, I had my car
pinched for the second time. He waved
aside my threat of installing an Alsatian as
,permanent driving companion, and explained
his own method. “We have a cot fixed in
the back seat and simply leave the baby
in it. The car is perfectly safe —no thief
would risk letting himself in for a charge
of abduction, let alone the disadvantage of
having a howling infant on his hands!”
However, since last week Johnson’s smile
has faded perceptibly. Mrs. Johnson, emerg-
ing from a shopping foray, found a hiatus
where her car had been and a crowd gather-
ing round the car behind ; in the centre of
the crowd an indignant spinster was fiercely
repudiating the ownership of the child dis-
covered in her car. If some enterprising
firm will bring out a baby car with an engine
which can be lifted out and carried in a
suitcase, they can have my order any day.
* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: The nude cult,
which has just reached Melbourne in the
shape of a ciub for sun-bathing on a secluded
beach, has at least added a new word to
the language. A friend stuck me up in
Collins-street the other day and asked me if
I intended to join the “skinnies.”
“Taltingan”: Blinks had
a cottage at Cessuock
which be hadn’t seen for
four years, and from
which, of course, lie hadn’t
drawn any rent since the
Northern miners ceased
work over two years back.
He thought he’d run up
and have a look at it, and
make sure his tenant really
was doing his best to find
himself a job. He knocked
at the door and was greeted
by a young woman he
didn’t know. Now, Minks
was the latest tenant, so
“Is Mr. Minks at home?”
the owner asked. “No, Mr.
Minks doesn’t live here
now: he’s down at the
Lakes,” Blinks was told.
“Ah, and who owns the
place now?” asked Blinks,
doing some natural sticky-
beaking. “Mr. Minks still
owns it,” said the lady.
“Um!” said poor Blinks.
“And would you think I
was rude if I asked how
much rent you pay Mr.
Minks?” The lady didn’t
mind in the least —“We
tried to get it for less, but
Mr. Minks held out for
255.” For over a year, it
turned out, the Minkses
had had the cottage rent
free. Then, the dole being
apparently a settled insti-
tution, they decided to
establish a holiday camp at
the Lakes and let the
nouse. The 255. they got
for it, added to the dole,
made things quite comfort-
able. And all would still
be going along quite mer-
rily if the wretched real owner hadn’t pushed
his nose into the business.
“Caecilian” : In Victoria the father who
goes to register the birth of his latest is
required to give at the same time the names
and birthdays of previous children. Some
find it irksome, but it has its value, as was
shown when a search was being made in
Warrnambool for exact details about the
late J. F. Archibald. The interested parties
were the editors of the “Australian Encyclo-
paedia,” who had stated in their first edition
that “J.F.” stood for “Jules Francois,” and
had found some doubt thrown on the asser-
tion. Inquiry among the old residents of
Warrnambool failed to elicit certainty, but
a friendly registrar was induced to search
the old records. It turned out that J.F.A.
was born two years before the earliest regis-
ters began their tale, but he was not an
only child, and an entry about a brother
disclosed that J.F. stood for plain John Fen-
liam. It further showed that Archibald’s
father and mother were both British-born.
“P.X.” : The P. and O.
Co. lias been running a
competition among the
primary and secondary
schools, offering prizes
for an essay on the influ-
ence of steam navigation
on Australia written
under supervision in ‘JO
minutes. One of the fea-
tures of the competition
was the extraordinary
variation in the quantity
of writing done in the
hour and a half. It got
down to a couple of hun-
dred words; it reached,
even among the essays
good enough to win a
State prize, 2750 words.
This latter is at the rate
of over 1800 words an
hour, without allowing
for a minute lost at the
end —and it takes judg-
ment to wind up on the
very tick of the clock.
. What is good going with
the pen? T. S. Sum-
merliayes, of Sydney’s big
Commercial College, says
over 50 words a minute
have been hand-written ;
but that was transcrip-
tion, and contractions
were allowed. Thirty
words to the minute,
every word written in
full, he regards as fast
work. A questionnaire
sent to a dozen experi-
onced pressmen drew replies ranging from
1600 to 2400 words —a column of The Bul-
letin runs to about 1200 words. But the
man who can write more than 1000 words
of original matter in an hour must know
his subject inside out.
“Macer": Train-jumping has become a
worse infliction on the Trans, line —the 1000-
mile stretch between Port Augusta and Kal-
goorlie—than anywhere else in Australia.
The S. Aus. police have done their best to
discourage it by regularly hauling offenders
back to their starting-point, threats of fines
or imprisonment having little effect on penni-
less men, but the Westralian authorities have
so far refused to co-operate. Scaddan, the
Minister responsible, declines even to fur-
nish a constable on eastern-bound trains,
his contention being that the Commonwealth
Railway Department should prevent the
breaking of its own regulations. But that is
practically impossible when train-jumpers
are numerous and obstinate, addicted to in-
vading lavatories and locking doors, and
versed in. all the tricks of stowaways; on
the goods trains, with a staff that generally
consists of an engine-driver, a guard and a
couple of firemen, it is quite impossible. And
SYMPATHY—JUST SYMPATHY!
MOTHER: “You kissed young Hobbs last night, Muriel.”
MURIEL: “Yes, mother, but he told me he had just lost his uncle, and I was sorry for
him.”
MOTHER: “Well, if I know young Hobbs, he won’t have a relative left in a week’s time.”
even when non-paying passengers are evicted
in the middle of nowhere, so to speak, they
become a menace to the isolated camps of
fettlers and to the lone railway settlements,
levying on them for food, which can seldom
be spared. It is estimated that at least a
dozen men take the overland track weekly
at Kalgoorlie, where there have been no
police prosecutions for nearly a year.
“C.Q.”: A sad .story of unrewarded thrift,
is being told in the Victorian Mallee. A
farmer came down to Melbourne, had all
his teeth drawn, and after a couple of months
received a false set. The dentist had im-
pressed on him the necessity of keeping them
clean, .so, after he had used them for 24
hours, he put the top lot in a dish and
poured boiling water on them. The bridge
promptly laid itself out flat. This alarmed
the farmer, and without pausing to weigh the
pros and cons he seized the sticky mess and
thrust it back into his mouth, in order to
restore the shape. The result wa.s another
two months’ wait, while a severely-burnt
mouth was healing and the dentist was
making a fresh set.
* * *
“Bamahouta”: Papua is having a bad
time with an influenza epidemic, the primi-
tive savage being singularly susceptible to
diseases which the white man takes more
and more lightly. The missionaries, who
introduced measles to the Pacific in the cast-
off clothing from Britain in. which the old-
time gospellers insisted on arraying their
converts, probably killed far more of the
heathen than all the allegedly wicked traders,
rum-sellers and the like put together.
Thirty years ago Papua had a bad visitation
of measles, which killed like bubonic plague.
It was almost impossible to prevent the
sufferers plunging into cold water to cool
their fever, and pneumonia followed. Pro-
bably the same trouble is aggravating the in-
fluenza outbreak.
“Farleigh”: That a convicted man who
appeals against a sentence passed on him as
being over-severe incurs the danger of hav-
ing it increased has long been known, but that
his penalty may be added to without any
action of his own is a judicial development
that will come as news to most people. The
N.S.W. Court of Criminal Appeals exer-
cised this power last week when, on the
application of the Solicitor-General, it held
that a six months’ sentence handed by Cur-
iewis, .T., to a self-confessed receiver of pro-
perty stolen from the State railways was in-
adequate. Counsel for the prisoner was
placed in the curious position of having to
defend, not bis client, but the Judge who
had sentenced his client; one argument he
used was that Mr. Curlewis was more often
taxed with severity than undue leniency.
But it failed, and the six months in this
case became eighteen. It will be poor con-
solation to the person principally concerned
to reflect that if he had got 12 months in the
lower court it would probably have been
suffered to stand.
; “Bloggs”: Put it to the talkies’ credit
that they discovered the possibilities of two
of life's most dramatic institutions —hos-
pitals and C.l.D.'s. Writers for the London
stage ignored hospital life completely when
exciting and moving things were happening
day and night at places like Bart’s; and
Scotland Yard mightn’t have been there for
all the notice they took of it. Stage doctors
were usually solemn asses, though now and
again you got one who was a dangerous
criminal. London policemen were either
dull, worthy helmet-touchers, or cretinous
foils to clever amateurs such as Holmes.
Country policemen were idiots, one and all.
Hollywood has raised the status of the
police officer to something approaching that
of an officer on active service, while the
surgeon is presented as a superman in the
thick of battles with Death. Plays which
feature policemen going over the top and
doctors at work in operating theatres may
have their weak points, but they usually
get a welcome from me when I recall that
the more works the dramatists grind out on
such themes the less time they have for the
infernal triangle wmrk which was the bane
of my youth.
sjs ❖ »!«
“Yacko” : Dec. 28 is the 95th anniversary
of Proclamation Day in S. Aus.. but 33 years
before the first settlers, under Wakefield’s
scheme, arrived the claims of Kangaroo
Island as a .suitable home for English
colonists were being urged. Grimes, the
ALWAYS A SILVER LINING.
“My brother spent half his fortune on her,
and then she turned him down!”
“Oh, wasn't that lucky! Think what she
would have cost him if they’d gone on
with it.”
assistant-surveyor of N.S.W., turned the
proposition down, and some potential settlers
under Collins were diverted to Sorrento
(Vic.), and later to the Speck. Mean-
while private enterprise was doing a little.
The sealers from Sydney who blew into
Kangaroo Island in 1800 were really S.
Aus.’s tirst colonists. In ISO 9 they were
still there. Their name is still preserved
on old maps in Murrell's Ray (now Harvey’s
Return). Murrell was the leader of these
somewhat turbulent pioneers.
THIS IS CHRISTMAS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Take dull-dog Care by the collar and
Plant the boot where it does most good
In a manner to make him understand
If he shows his face we’ll be rough and
rude.
He’s been our boss for a weary year,
But we’ve sacked him now, and we will
be gay
(Drums and horns and a rousing cheer!),
For this is Christmas, our holiday—
Yours and mine and the next-door kid’s,
The stately Judge’s, the plain John Hop’s,
The bishop's, the verger's, even the Yid’s, _
Ewing’s and Whiddon’s and Good ole Bid's,
Bung's and the baker’s, the belle’s, the
fop’s :
All of us feeling the self-same way
That this is Christmas, our holiday!
A fig for trouble! We’ve gone on strike
To the worries that made us toe the mat;
For a time we'll do as we dashed well like;
We’ll drink of the best and we’ll eat the
fat;
We’ll fill the world with the noise of mirth —
Stand on our cocoanuts, if we may— '
And we’ll kid ourselves that we own the
earth
If but for the Christmas holiday—
Yours and mine and the brawny d’s,
The saucy flapper’s, the prim old maid's,
The skipper’s, the cook’s and the trim A.B.’s,
Lang’s and the chap’s who sells us cheese.
The Richmond bloke’s, the St. Kilda
blade’s:
We’re all of us out for a season gay
Since this is Christmas, our holiday!
The wine of laughter awhile will flow
(And it won’t be the only drink we’ll take),
We’ll festoon the landscape where’er we go.
And a joyful noise with our horns we’ll
make.
We’ll dance our darnedest and have our
fun,
And Trouble and Care, look they e’er so
grey,
Will have to wait till the feast is done
Since this is Christmas, our holiday—
Yours and mine, and the stable lad’s,
The fisherman’s and the merchant’s, too,
The bookie’s, the punter’s, Dave’s and Dad’s,
Seullin’s and Latham’s, the snob’s, the cad's,
From Leeuwin’s Cape to the humble ’Loo.
If it’s all we spend, we will still be gay,
Since this is Christmas, our holiday!
N.s.W.
HAROLD MERCER.


“Si Anu”Since Cocos Island cable
station got into the limelight, over the
Emden business, mail-steamers have developed
the habit of asking the men ashore what
they would like in the w T ay of dainties to
brighten their menu, which is mainly of
the canned and potted variety. The reply
from the station is invariably “Potatoes.”
Recently a liner new to the run passed the
atoll, and, as usual, threw over a barrel,
but without previously consulting the re-
quirements of the island. The exiles duly-
put out in a sailing-boat in pretty heavy
weather, and, after some difficulty, salvaged
the present. When they got in on to the
beach and opened it they found it full of
tinned salmon !
“Nakli.” : A Melbourne lady, just returned
rrom tour, lias been expressing
intense indignation at the mean way the
THE DIAGNOSIS.
DOCTOR : “Does your husband bring all his difficulties to you?”
NERVE CLIENT: “He did. But I was no good with a corkscrew.”
Freneh have exploited England’s present
monetary difficulties by charging an exor-
bitant rate of exchange. The traveller’s
emotion is rather comic in view of the
fact that for years the boot, was on the
other foot, and globe-trotting Australians
were posting to France and Italy because
they could exploit those countries. I lived
BRIDGE TALK.
SQUEAMISH LADY (his opponent at bridge last night) : “I’m not in the pink this morning,
DOCTOR. D’you think it’s safer to eat heartily or starve oneself for a while?”
DOCTOR: “Well, that depends on whether one discards from weakness or strength.”
handsomely in Florence in a pension over-
looking the Arno for half a crown a day, and
drove round Rome for fivepence an hour. In
Paris it cost me a little more because the
French were beginning to wake up to the
fact, that they were being done in the eye,
and usually advanced prices when a prospec-
tive purchaser looked like a foreigner. The
grandest discovery was that people with an
income or pension of, say, £4 a week could
live on the Mediterranean littoral or his-
toric islands like Capri in positive splendor
and a beautiful climate. The number of
Australians who exploited this fact was con-
siderable.
* * * *
“Jeanies” : If the Junior Athenseum Club
is closing at the end of the year, as a cable
asserts, the outlook is black for many others.
Three-quarters of a century ago it was Hope
House—the property of the owner of the
Hope diamond, which was supposed to bring
bad luck—and considered by Bulwer Lytton
to be the best-designed private house in Lon-
don. The site is one of the finest in the
world—on the corner of Down-street and
Piccadilly. There is a tube station opposite
and a luxury hotel recently appeared round
the corner. The Junior Athenaeum has
always been a middle-class club, with no
literary associations despite its name, and
a high reputation for cooking and good
management. The Junior Constitutional, a
little further east, the Devonshire and
about a dozen more are in the same cat-
egory; and it would seem that, they are all
doomed. They can’t stand up to the modern-
ised clubs, which provide first-class cock-
tail bars and swimming and even Turkish
baths. Soon the type of London club that
Thackeray meant when he wrote of the
Megatherium will be as dead as the dodo,
leaving only the Service and ’Varsity clubs,
a few historic ones like White’s and
Arthur’s, which are joined on family grounds,
and quasi athletic clubs like the Bath. The
Megatheriums of Australia are tottering, too.
under the hammer-blows of suburban golf
clubs, which offer all the amenities they do
and a few more besides.
* * * *
' “Chevroford” : An echo of the pre-depres-
sion boom comes from Canberra, where the
Advisory Council has discovered
that the spring weeds have
taken charge of the communal
parks, gardens and plantations.
In the good old days the White
Elephant had some 200 gar-
deners continually engaged
manicuring her finger-nails.
Beautiful plantations of wattle,
gums and imported trees
stretched on each side of the
magnificent roads, not only in
the built-on portions of the
metropolis but into the bush on
all sides. The Government nur-
series were the envy of lho
municipal gardeners of Mel-
bourne and Sydney. The frenzy
for turning the capital into a
garden city was so intense that
commissioners had the right of
planting up a private citizen’s
hack yard if he had been lax in
his zeal for arboreal luxuriance.
Moreover, he was not regarded
as competent to look after his
own front hedges : miles of these
■were kept clipped at the expense
of the Commonwealth. Now
it is estimated that it would cost £25.000
merely to grapple with the weeds ; and there
isn’t a brass farthing in the cash-box.
“Kerys”: An election side-light was pro-
vided after tin' 1020 Federal contest by the
wife of one of the rejected candidates when
a neighbor was condoling with her over her
husband’s defeat. “Don’t say a. word,” said
tin' wife, “but I voted against him. I’m
far too nervous to live in Sydney without
a man in the house, and I detest Canberra !”
“5.0.8.”; Bordertown (S.A.) is not the
only town which has a hospital for its war
memorial. Atherton (N.Q.) has another,
with an operating-theatre which is one of
the best-equipped outside of the cities. I
■have visited nearly every town in Queens-
land in search of work, and I have seen only
three war memorials which impressed me as
something more than advertisements for
architect, sculptor or local governing body.
The other two are at Maryborough and
Sandgate.
* * * *
“Salus : The business firms who send un-
protected girls to bank their takings or to
bring pay-money home ought to think more
about the grave dangers such work entails.
If the. sum is likely to be substantial and
the mission a regular one, it is pretty cer-
tain that some ill-disposed person will get
to know of it. Last week a girl who was
taking an attache-case containing over £3OO
in notes to a branch bank in a >Sydney suburb
was attacked and dragged into a passage-
way by a thug who had evidently laid his
plans with much deliberation and cunning
—he had previously fixed a catch on the
side door of a hotel through which his
get-away was to be made so that it would
lock when slammed behind him. The girl
resisted pluckily and managed to hang, on
to her case until her screams • brought
rescuers; she was probably lucky to escape
without sustaining grievous bodily harm.
Only a day or two before in another part of
Sydney a couple of ruffians murdered a man
of 85 and brutally injured his wife, also aii
octogenarian, on the chance that the old
couple had a hoard of money hidden in the
house, although all that, was obtained was
a few pounds.
:'fi $ *
“10-2-4”: A medium last week claimed
that she was invaded by the spirit of Rev.
John Ferguson, a distinguished Presbyterian
who ministered in Sydney a f ew years ago.
The following transpired :
Medium: “I was a Scotchman, ye know, and I
tried to do all the good I could in life. There were
many people who would call me ‘the good old soul’
or ‘Old John.’ 1 was ‘Old John’ to my friends.”
Rev. E. A. Ferguson (son) : “Do you remember
your church before you came to Sydney?”
Medium : “I know that X came from Scotland,
and I know a church that my heart and soul were
in, but where I cannot tell ye.”
Member op Committee : “What is your daily
life like?”
Medium : “I shall now have to leave this vessel,
but I shall be pleased another time, if ye wish to
ask me any more questions concerning the spiritual
life and my life on -earth. God bless ye.”
The son expressed dissatisfaction, on the
ground, amongst others, that his late father
never said “ye,” However, this Sydney re-
incarnation seems to have been more con-
vincing than a London one which I attended
as a pressman in 1927, on the invitation of
an official of the Spiritualist Museum near
Westminster Abbey. No less a personage
than Cardinal Dubois (said to have been
one of the religious advisers of Marie An-
toinette) was lured into the uninviting vessel
of Mr. Harrison of Canning Town. From
my notes: —
Medium : “Ow! friends, I am so ’appy in my
’ome which is not builded of ’ands, and shall endure.”
Self: “Is Marie Antoinette with you?”
Medium : “She is that, and in peace after ’er
bitter years of tribulation, grief an’ pain.”
Another Pressman: “What do you do? Is your
life there anything like your old life?”
Medium: “No, dear friend. Not similar — far, far
from it. We are pure and ’appy. We sing.”
Self: “What do you sing?”
Medium: “’Ymns!”
This image of a Cockney Cardinal singing
hymns is typical of the kind of thing that
has destroyed illusion for me at many
seances. I have yet to hear of one celebrity
who talked in character after returning to
the earth plane; who didn’t suggest, in
short, that residence on the other side causes
the ablest to degenerate into cretins.
* * * *
“Ruggieri”: The most astounding thing
about the Indian yogi—if he isn’t a clever
fakir —who is said to swallow poison with
impunity (B. 16/12/’3l) is that cyanide of
potassium is represented as having no effect
on him. Cyanide acts by instantaneously
paralysing the nerve centres, and there is no
antidote. Arsenic and corrosive sublimate
can both be guarded against, the one
with milk and the other with white of egg.
The Marquis de Brinvilliers, husband
of the infamous Marquise, with whom he
was not popular, was accustomed to fly to
huge draughts of milk whenever suspicious
TWO IN THE FAMILY.
PEG (inspecting trousseau): “Darling, it all
beggars description.”
MEG (just had a bad ten minutes with pa):
“Oh, well, it’ll be nice company for
daddy.”
symptoms showed themselves. He has left
it on record that as the years went on he
became practically immune to arsenic, the
favorite administration of his flighty wife and
of the Italians, who introduced the art of
poisoning to France. The inhabitants of the
Tyrol, arsenic-eaters from birth, are famous
for the huge quantity of the poison they can
accustom themselves to, but to leave off the
regular dose means speedy extinction. Both
De Quincey and Coleridge have told us of
the quantity of laudanum they learned to
drink with impunity, but both' managed to
wean themselves of the vice without appa-
rent harm.
* * * :J:
“Mudurup” : Arthur Lovekin (B. 16/12/’3l )
gave the A.J.A. and other unions more
trouble than most of his tribe. He was a
born nark in many ways, and, though he
could be generous in his dealings with em-
ployees! he disliked compulsion in any form.
One of his harmless vanities was to’ be re-
garded as an editor, which he wasn’t, his
line being business management. A quaint
story lingered about him for years to the
effect that he first struck Perth with a trav-
elling circus, in which he officiated as ring-
master, but his connection with the sawdust
ring was really confined to the ownership of
a trick pony. Another exploit of his earlier
years which also lent itself to dramatic exag-
geration concerned the hunting down of °a
colored leper, who had taken to the bush
behind the Darling Ranges, with a posse of
patriotic citizens leading the hue and cry;
hut this was founded on fact. The scare
occasioned by the escape of a leper from
quarantine was a very real one in the
’eighties.
THE EMANCIPATED SEX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No longer do women walk timidly into a booth
holding hubby’s hand, and voting submissively as
he bids them.” —Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
No longer do they ballot as they’re bid
’Mid scenes that awe them—
And personally, if they ever did,
I never saw them.
Further, the thesis hardly contemplates
The. serried bands of
Voters in skirts who have no wedded mates
To hold the hands of.
Pity no painter caught them, him and her,
Eve and her Adam,
Bound for the polls, authoritative Sir,
Submissive Madam.
With modern notions, though, there’s ques-
tion small
The picture jostles,
However it might meet the views of Paul
And the Apostles.
Still, let the figure go. We all must fall
In our vocation
Now and again into rhetorical
Exaggeration.
His point’s that citizens in petticoats—
And that he’ll hold to—
At their sweet will to-day allot their votes.
Not as they’re told to.
The century has witnessed lots of things
To stagger sages;
Seen women tearing loose from leading
strings
Endured for ages.
Man’s all-but equal now she goes her way
Assured and perky.
Why, one of them got hanged the other day
Even in Turkey !
She’s crashed the gates of Parliaments in
stacks.
And the climax is
That modern Jennies know as well as Jacks
What Single Tax is;
And if Bimetallism would revive
Our wasted tissue,
And all the arguments that keep alive
The Fiscal Issue.
No longer does the inexpressive She.
As antidote for
Frank ignorance, inquire if A or B
’S the chap to vote for.
She’s made her mind up, like her man (or
boy):
Before she bootliwards whizzes....
And. loath as I’m illusions to destroy,
Her choice, a sovereign to a saveloy,
The same as his is.
N.S.W.
T THE R.


SPOT***'
I. WIV-
%
SS
REDUCED COSTS are reflected by a Reduced Tariff
—but Quality and Service are maintained at the
same world-famous “Australia” standard.
Single Room . . 10/6 per day
Double Room 20/- „ „
Single Room, with private bath and toilet, 17/6
per day; Double Room, with private bath and
toilet, from 30/- per day.
Breakfast, 2/- and 3/6, and a la carte.
Luncheon and Dinner, a la carte. Minimum, 4/-
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney."
The
Australia
Hotel
SYDNEY
NEW
Room
Only
RATES U
Reduced Tariff
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Australia’s party leaders in last weeks
dust-up are on the average a good dozen
years younger than the foremost figures in
the British elections of a couple of months
ago. Scullin is 55, Latham 54, Lyons 52,
Earle Page 51, and Theodore will be 47 next
week. Lang, who, though not a candidate,
demands inclusion, is 55. Bruce is 48.
A committee has been appointed in Mel-
bourne to organise a movement to erect a
statue to John Monash. Something costing
£lO,OOO is the objective.
Medico and lawyer, too, was Dr. Todd,
who died at Sydney last week; not only
had he practised both callings, an injury to
the wrist having caused him to take on the
second, but he had made good in both. He
arrived from England 44 years ago, was
honorary secretary of the local B.M.A. for
over 20 years, acted as City Coroner and
was lecturer in Medical Jurisprudence at
Sydney Uni.; nor did this by any means
exhaust the list of his activities. He was a
gifted and enthusiastic musician and a hard-
working member of the Taronga Park Trust.
It was only a few months ago that Dr.
Todd returned from a trip to England, where
he attended this year’s meeting of the B.M.A.
at Eastbourne.
Wellington (M.L.) has lost one of its
pillars by the death of engineer John Luke.
Born in Cornwall, he arrived in the colony
with his parents as a kid of 16, an appren-
tice half through his time. IJe completed his
training with E. W. Mills, of Wellington,
and after a short experience of the Gov-
ernment stroke, joined with his father Sam
and his brother Charles to form S. Luke and
Sons, who made ships, bridges, lighthouses
and, probably much more profitably, stoves.
John was mayor of the capital for eight
years continuously, covering the war period,
and, off and on, he was a member of Par-
liament for 20 years. He was a candidate
at the recent election, though in failing
health. Knighted in 1921 for his war-time
services, he was reputed a hard man, but just.
Dr. “Willie” Robertson, vice-chancellor of
the Queensland University, is one of those
Scots medicine-men who must be managing
something—Sydney ’Varsity had the luck
to find another of them in MacLaurin.
When he is not doing something for the
’Varsity, or sitting on the Queensland board
Dr. W. ROBERTSON, Brisbane.
of the A.M.P. or some other co., or looking
after his eye, ear and nose practice in
Wickham-terrace, he is probably hard at
work carpentering—directing a plane and
chisel if there is nothing else to manage at
the moment.
Thomas H. Nesbitt, who was Town Clerk
of Sydney for nearly a quarter of a century,
emerged from his retirement last week to
have a portrait in oils presented to him at
the Town Hall. Thomas, now 78, is a Manx-
man ; he left the Arcadian scenes familiar to
readers of Hall Caine for the busy hum of
two crowded cities, holding down a respon-
sible job in Westminster (London) before
he landed the coveted Sydney billet from
scores of applicants at the beginning of the
century. As Town Clerk he held a record
for prolific and voluminous writing on muni-
cipal subjects that is never likely to be
approached ; his annual reports were encyclo-
ptedic in their scope and polysyllabic in
their diction.
It looks as though old “Fighting Charley”
will head the N.S.W. Senate poll again—
he did it in 1919, shortly after he got back
from the war, and he did it again six years
ago. Meantime he hadn’t done anything
brilliant as a legislator and never will; he
is just a plain, honest man, who still can’t
make anything but a halting, rambling
speech. But the name holds —“Fighting
Charley,” Charley Cox, Major-General, the
dashing commander of the Lancer detach-
ment which was at the Queen’s Jubilee, and
"Fighting CHARLEY " COX.
so took the official eye that a year or two
later he was invited to bring 100 Lancers
to Aldershot for 12 months’ special train-
ing. Afterwards he was in the S’African
War and on Gallipoli and in Egypt. He
came from the Parramatta district, the
stronghold of the Lancers.
Wiudeyer, the Sydney K.C., sent his good
wishes to Cowper, Billy Hughes’s opponent
in North Sydney, and referred to the
families’ friendship through three genera-
tions. But the Cowpers go back farthest
in tbe history of N. S. Wales. The founder
of the family was Sydney’s archdeacon in
the egrly days of last century. The first of
the Windeyers was Charles, who had been
a law reporter in London and the first recog-
nised reporter in the House of Lords: this
experience got him on the magistrates’ bench
when he came to Sydney. They have been
in the courts ever since—four generations
of them.
Ledcourt, some miles out of Stawell,
which was put up to auction the other day
without a bid being elicited, has some his-
toric associations. It was here that Marcus
Clarke worked as a jackeroo and the scene
of his “Pretty Dick” was laid; the nearest
township, Glenorchy, is the “Bullock Town”
of Clarke’s writings. Ben Boyd, of Twofold
Bay fame, selected this squattage for his
own in 1842.
One of the most staggering reverses at
the elections was suffered by Percy Coleman
in Reid. Coleman, who polled nearly 50,000
votes a couple of years ago and had a
majority of just on 33,000, this time scored
fewer than 18,000, and goes out on the
first count. Coleman went to sea as a boy;
later he became a junior clerk, then assist-
ant secretary to the Seamen’s Union and,
finally, secretary to the Clerks’ Union. He
won the Reid electorate when it was first
created.
John Maurice Franklin, who died at Syd-
ney recently, came of a sturdy pastoralist
stock. His parents arrived in the ’forties,
and John was born at Yass in 1848. His
father took up land at Brindabella on the
Goodradigbee River, part of it in what is
now the Federal Territory; the sons ran the
station. John could remember when the first
trout were liberated in the “Gooradigbee,”
as he always called it. A daughter, Stella
(Miles) Franklin, is well known in literary
cifclesr
Frank Rochfort, whose death in Papua at
80 is reported, must be absolutely the, last
of the old hands who first invaded the
fever-stricken island in pursuit of the
evasive pennyweight. An Englishman, he
was for some years a Queensland station-
owner until bad seasons forced him out of
the game. After a brief spell as a news-
paper proprietor in Townsville and Croydon
he reached British New Guinea, as it then
Was, in the ’eighties, when William Mac-
gregor was consul. A daring explorer-pros-
pector. Rochfort did the Government of
those days much good service, but his fiery
and erratic temperament would not allow
him to accept the frequent offers of Govern-
ment employment w r hich Macgregor made
him, Rochfort followed the gold trail from
Milne Bay through the Gira and Yodda to
the Lakekamu, always getting good gold,
but never keeping any of it. In his closing
days he had secluded himself on Woodlark
Island, dying, as he lived for so long, a
lone-hand alluvial miner.
Admiral Guy, of the distinguished and ver-
satile Gaunt family, dispelled a few illusions
about the French Foreign Legion in a speech
in Melbourne. Readers of P. C. Wren draw
the deduction that the Legion is an institu-
tion specially designed to provide romantic
heroes with the opportunity of displaying
their prowess with the Arabic or stray
European female, but according to Guy Gaunt
they are provided with strong boots for march-
ing and little else, their clothing and food
being very bad. The Admiral, who speaks
from personal observation, found three Aus-
tralians amongst the legionnaires, but few
Englishmen.
Julia Flynn, assistant chief inspector of
Vic. secondary schools, has been awarded
the Carnegie Foundation scholarship, worth
£450, provided for a tour in Britain and
U.S.A. She gets leave without pay from
the Education Department and will leave
in March. In nine months’ travel she will
inquire into systems for educating girls and
the utility of wireless as an instructing
auxiliary.
As part of the latest reorganisation of
the M.L. railways there has been a re-
shuffle of the heads. H. H. Sterling, general
manager, becomes chairman of the Railway
Board, his managerial job, or what there is
left of it, being taken by P. G. _ Roussell, who
was secretary of the previous Railway
Board, G. H. Mackley, chief clerk, moves
up to the assistant-managership, and E.
Casey becomes chief engineer. The appoint-
ments are approved by the rank and file
because they promote men who have worn
Uniform. Roussell and Mackley have been
Stationmasters in their time, and Casey
joined the mechanical side of the service as
a cadet in 1902. All three of them have
been on the M.L. railways for over a quarter
of a century. Sterling and his predecessor,
McVilly, were office men. Hiley was
imported, fully-fledged, and so was Ronayne.
George Buckland, who unsuccessfully car-
ried the Federal Labor banner in East Syd-
ney, was born in the Condobolin (N.S.W.)
district some 40 years ago, and grew up at
Cobar. where he became secretary of the local
branch of the Amalgamated Miners’ Associa-
tion ; later he was State secretary. When
the A.W.U. swallowed the organisation Buck-
land ran the mining section of the A.W.U.,
and when West Sydney sent the late Bill
Lambert to the House of Reps, in 1921
Buckland took over the vacated job of secre-
tary of the Central Branch of the A.W.U.,
which he still holds. He was vice-president
of the A.L.P. for a term, and earned the
enmity of the Graves-Garden faction when he
accused the delegates to the 1927 A.L.P.
conference of being “Lang mad.”
“Texas” GREEN, of Kalgoorlie, Labor’s
sole survivor in the West.
Lady MacMahon, whose death in London
is reported, was the widow of Charles
MacMahon, second Speaker of Vic. Leg.
Assembly from 1871 to 1877. and again for
a few months in 1880. Previous to enter-
ing Parliament he was Chief Commissioner
of Police. His widow was the daughter of
J. D. Webster, a former Victorian landowner
and shire councillor.
Few men have crammed so much action
into their lives as F. W. Haig, Vacuum Oils
chief aviation officer. He forsook marine
engineering in Fiji and Vic. for flying when
Harry H’awker stirred the imagination of
Melbourne’s youth with his Sopwith machine
in 1913. In August, 1914, he joined up with
the* Public School Boys’ company of the sth
Capt. HAIG, the Vacuum’s airman.
Battalion, was a machine-gun . sergeant at
the Gallipoli landing, was invalided to Aus-
tralia a month later with a severe Blighty,
then joined the famous No. 1 Squadron of
the A.F.G., and, after eight months’ flying
on active service, was captured by the
Turks while attempting to rescue two
brother-airmen forced down behind the
enemy lines. After the war he was appointed
chief instructor to the _ Aero Club of S. Aus-
tralia. Haig was senior pilot with Qantas
and has just about quartered the ether since
over Australia and Maoriland. The bundle
of energy now arranges the fuel supplies
for overseas aviators from his office desk in
Melbourne.
G. W. Paxton, assistant manager of Vic.
State Savings Bank, retires on Dec. 31 after
half a century’s service. His late brother,
Selby, was general manager of the old
Colonial Bank, which the National Bank
absorbed.
Jack —christened John Fortunatus —Hig-
gins, M.L.C., who churned out the pub-
licity for the Federal Labor group in N. S.
Wales, is a Tasmanian who made his first
close acquaintance with ink as a computer
in the Tas. Government Printing Office. On
leaving the Speck for Victoria he turned to
provincial journalism, editing the “Dookie
and Katamatite Recorder” and several
country papers. In 1908 he joined the staff
of the “Australian Worker”? for years
past he has been the A..W.U.’s pub-
licity man in election, campaigns. One of
his activities was the running of the “Labor
News/’ a weekly sheet founded by the late
Jack Power, which delivered the official
Labor policy before the starting of the
“Labor Daily.” John Stoi'ey sent Higgins
to the Upper House in 1921, where, along
with Joe Coates and others, he is putting a
brake on Lang’s wild legislation.
Lord Langford, who is being sued for
maintenance in London, was a puzzle for
Melbourne journalists when his accession to
the title was announced. The cable stated that
he was living in Melbourne, and it was con-
fidently expected that the new peer would
immediately submit himself to be photo;
graphed and to supply a human-interest story.
Instead he maintained a profound silence,
and when a newspaper sleuth finally dug him
out of a suburban flat he proved the most
uncommunicative peer who has ever beeu
offered the freedom of the limelight. The
mystery deepened when he denied knowledge
of any Lady Langford serving tea and buns in
a London shop, even when newspaper mes-
sages brought confirmation of the waitress’s
story. Since landing in London Lord Lang-
ford has lost his reticence to the extent of
writing his story for a Sunday newspaper,
which his lady capped by supplying hers to
another.
Australia loses a centenarian in Maurice
Heenan, of Lexington (Vic.). Born in Kil-
kenny, Ireland, in 1828, he arrived in Aus-
tralia by the sailing-ship David Mclver in
1855 and was the oldest identity of the
Wimmera at his death. He had 10 sons
and two daughters, and there were 32 grand-
children and 15 great-grandchildren.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company-
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
‘
• V
WATER FILTRATION
For manufacturing purposes clear water is
essential. The “SWIRL” FILTER gives
a large output and is specially suitable for
Ice Works, Butter Factories, Laundries, etc.
Also Sole Manufacturers of the well-known
“Abbot” Germ-proof Filters, pressure or
crockery, for household use, Cordial
Factories, etc.
Catalogues on Application.
Guthridge Limited
Sole Manufacturers
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius . .
iThemistocles
*Nestor . .
JCeramic . -
*Ulysses . .
i'Euripides . .
•First das.- only tFirst and third class.
JCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Daigety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
’ Agents
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
They were a very expensive flock and the
early demise of most of them and the reduced
earning capacity of the survivors left the
venture heavily over-capitalised. Not only
were the terms on which Sun Newspapers
and S. Bennett merged generous to both
parties, but when the economic barometer
was low and falling fast, the board bought
the goodwill of two doubtful propositions,
the daily and the Sunday “Guardian,” for
£575,000 in 400,000 fully-paid prefs. and
the balance cash. Thus a big wad of
scrip was put in front of the ords. for both
dividends and capital. At the close of last
accounts ( Sept. 27, 1931) paid capital was
£3,592,202 in 1,489,006 profs., 7 p.c. cumu-
lative, and 2,103,136 ords. Also Associated,
which had thus become an operating as well
as a holding co., had gone further into debt
to finance its own trading activities. After
capitalising £15,073 ot' preliminary exes, and
£2471 in connection with the “Guardian,”
the first year’s net earnings (£102,453) were
no more than £7141 in excess of pref.
requirements.
Early in the last term it became apparent
ihat the whole thing had been overdone.
So, to protect the earnings of the chief
contributors to the pool, the daily and the
Sunday “Sun,” the board hastened to ex-
tinguish other of its journals which had
become drags. Thus publication of the
daily and Sunday editions of the “Guardian”
and “Pictorial” and, after changes on the
board and some recriminations, of the
“Evening News” also, was discontinued, and
a new sheet, the “Daily Telegraph,” made
its appearance.
For the 12 months to Sept. 27 this year
the daily and Sunday “Sun” cleared £154,.182,
of which £14,097 was charged up to adminis-
trative exes, on account of Associated. The
net loss on the daily and Sunday “Pictorial,”
“Daily Telegraph” and “Sunday Guardian”
was £52,846. Sun Newspapers, Ltd., thus
showed a net profit of £57,239; the Bennett
co. registered- a loss of £53,875, leaving the
combined net result of the two subsidiaries
at £33,364. Nevertheless, £119,654 was
passed on to Associated, which paid 4J p.c.
on its pref. capital (which now calls for
£104.234 p.a.) and chalked up the balance.
Drastic reconstruction is inevitable, and
will be undertaken when the board can see
more cleaidy -where the business stands. Dis-
regarding the loss on the extinguished
journals and the “Telegraph,” Sun News-
papers netted £140,086, or enough to pay
Associated’s pref. div. and show 1.7 p.c. on
ord. capital as it now stands. As for the
future, much will depend upon what the
board is able to do with the Bennett co.’s
premises and plant, and upon how the “Tele-
graph” pans out, and upon the terms of the
reconstruction. It is claimed that the
appearance of the “World” has not thus
far affected the business much.
During the year £35,000 was handed to
Smith’s Newspapers, leaving £105,000 still
to come. To do this and carry an extra
£23,395 of book debts, the board leant upon
sundry creditors for a further £48,440:—
1930. 1931.
Preference £1,483,999 £1,489,066
Ordinary 2,093,001 2,103,136
Sundry creditors .. .. 148,927 197,367
Smith’s Newspapers .. .. 140,000 105,000
Shares in other cos. .. .. 3,135,930 3,152,160
Stocks 41,500 40,337
Sundry debtors . . .. 101,530 124,925
Equipment . . .... 1,564 384
Goodwill (“Guardian”) .. 577,471 577,471
Thus the excess of outside liabilities over
stocks and debtors’ balances (£137.105) was
£8792 lighter than at the close of accounts
in 1930. To represent the £3,152.160 at
which shares in other cos. appear, there were
net tangibles with a book value of £1,455.030.
all fixed assets, including a plant reserve,
etc., of £346,882. The combined figures of
the two operating cos. at Sept. 27 showed
£620.618 coming to sundry creditors, to meet
which there were stocks, debtors’ balances
and investments totalling £271,272. The
position will look healthier when the debt,
is substantially reduced. Leaving the plant
reserve, just referred to, out of the reckon-
ing. the combined figures of the whole group
disclosed net tangibles with a book value
of £1.318,314 to represent Associated’s
£3,592,202 of paid capital at Sept. 27.
The price of the scrip fell sharply, follow-
ing publication of the sheet. At 3s. 3d. for
the ords. and 11s. 2d. for the prefs. investors
now value the undertaking at £1.281.915.
Amalgamated Textiles (Australia), Ltd.
In 1929, four years after this co. had put
up mills at Albury and Orange (N.S.W.), it
jettisoned £156,105 (6s. Bd. per share) of its
capital, reducing the figure to £293,375.
This cleared the accounts of £87,160 of
accumulated losses and preliminary exes.,
leaving goodwill at £10,517 ; the other £68.945
was used to write down the book value of
premises and plant, bought when prices
were at their peak, and to wipe out the
£lO.OOO at which the co.’s holding in the
\Y.A. Woollen Mills appeared. The charge
for depreciation was thus lightened, and
results benefited from an overhaul of the
organisation. But slump turned the tables
before shareholders could get into the pic-
ture. Moreover, it is claimed that the
co.’s competitors in other States enjoy
an advantage in labor costs of approxi-
mately 30 p.c. This because they operate
under a Federal award, and because they
do not have to pay 48 hours’ wages for 44
hours’ work as in N. S. Wales. Hence
profit margins had to be cut to the bone,
and trade has been very difficult to hold.
For the first half of the 12 months to.
Sept. 30 the co.’s mills worked only part
time ; and the fact that the one at Orange
depends upon the other at Albury for tops
made overhead more difficult to restrain.
Though things improved during the second
half, a loss of £5218 showed up for the
year compared with a loss of £514 for the
previous term. And it is difficult to say when
anything worth while in the way of profits
is likely to show up, especially -while fur-
ther reduction of costs is made impossible:
by discriminating State legislation.
During the year plant, qtc., was reduced
by £50,398, due to deduction of the deprecia-
tion reserve (£38,851 at the close of
accounts in 1930) from the book value of
the asset:—
1998 1999 199(1 1931
Paid capital. . £448,079 £449,481 £293,375 £293,426
Overdraft . . 54,883 69,625 63,525 58,877
Sundry creditors 5,569 11,161 17,336 17,533
Freeholds .. 89,301 96,123 81,903 81,778
Plant, etc. . . 211,065 223,808 170,957 120,559
Fittings .. 1,018 1,129 1,231 859
Stocks . .. 99,735 119,571 146,377 143,823
Book debts . . 27,416 35,512 20,495 22,213
Shares in other
cos. . . 10,000 10,000
Cash, etc. . . 2,408 2,503 2,607 2,243
It was impossible to reduce stocks to any
extent, except by accepting ridiculous prices,
the chairman .says. Much therefore depends
upon the figure at which they appear in the
sheet, and upon the soundness of debtors’
balances. The more or less liquid surplus
(£91,869, including stocks) was £3251 better
than at the previous balance. Fixed assets
are reported in first-class condition.
There are 447,544 shares of 13s. 4d. each;
the backing is 13s. 6d. in net tangibles,
mostly plant, etc., worth what it can earn.
The scrip is not listed.
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd.
Nominal
Net To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1920.. 4,315 Nil 4315 5,376
1921.. 5,241 5 p.c. = 9,591 1,026
1922.. 9,566 5 „ „ 9,591 1,001
1923.. 9,414 5 „ „ 9,591 824
1924.. 9,718 5- „ ~ 9,591 127 951
Prefs. Ords. £
1925.. 9,919 10 p.c. 5 p.c. = 9,651 268 1,219
1926. . 15,136 10 „ 6 „ „ 12,645 2491 3,710
1927.. 16,625 10 „ 6 „ „ 13,494 3131 6,841
British rights sold; net additions to
general reserve, £47,956 .. .. 54,797
1928.. 20,724 10 p.c. 32* p.c.=67,202 8,319
1929.. 17,230 10 „ 6 „ „ 16,509 721 9,040
1930. . 9,936 10 „ (Nil) = 6,000 4936 13,976
1931.. 4,260 10 „ (Nil) = 5,000 13,236
Totalisator turnover at Randwick improved,
due to a change in the system of betting,
four new machines were installed in Victoria
toward the close of accounts, and two small
ones are being erected on dog tracks in
England. Thus the year’s sales, etc.
(£129,036) sprang £79,932. Yet gross profits
(£34.918) were £7432 lighter ; exes (£30,658)
were got back £1756, leaving the net result
£740 short of pret'. requirements. All the
profit claimed was on account of foreign
earnings, which nevertheless have been
almost as disappointing as the co.’s Aus-
tralian operations. However, the cash posi-
tion improved, and the 6 p.c. declared on
the ords. in 1929 has been paid.
Since 1918 the ords. have averaged 5.8
p.c., including a 25 p.c. bonus (£47,956),
hastily distributed from £lOO,OOO received
for the English rights (exes, made off with
the difference). The contract provided for
a small royalty on turnover, with a guaran-
teed minimum of £2OOO p.a.; but it is doubt-
ful whether the co. is now able to collect the
guarantee. Also the French subsidiary has
proved a drag, and efforts are being made
to .sell the business. It has £200.000 of
capital, one-llalf 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and
the other half ords. The parent took the
ords. in part payment for rights, and guar-
anteed the pref. div. To June 30 last it had
been called upon for £25,823 in respect of
the guarantee, and had advanced the pup
£16,677 for trading purposes besides. Whether
the ords. will ever be worth anything largely
depends upon the sale of the business, and
tin' terms.
The financial position of the parent and
other things are seen in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1923. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £191,825 £241,825 £241,825 £241,825
Liabilities . . 9,520 19,933 23,147 34,826
Patents, plant,
etc. .. 177,799 216,673 221,484 221,473
Shares .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Freeholds, etc. 6,176 6,844 6,844 7,018
.Stock.. 4,298 16,168 20,868 17,535
Book debts . . 33,644 66,826 55,977 63,685
Gash .. .. 6,604 5,419 6,184 18,762
Thus the more or less liquid surplus (£65,150,
including stock) was strengthened by £5274
during the year. How much of the £221,473
at which patents, plant, etc., figured at
Oct. 17 is intangible the “Wild Cat” does
not know; but the amount is believed to
be substantial. There are reserves totalling
£146,823, of which £110,838 is specifically
set against rights; but £lOO,OOO of it is
represented by shares in the French subsi-
diary.
The market, which notes that one of the
co.’s large machines is expected to be m
operation at Miami (U.S.A.) next month,
and that further orders from America are
anticipated, prices the ords. at 10s. and the
profs, at 17s.
Western Australian Insurance
Reserves
(including
Reserves' for
To Unexpired
June, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
£ £ £ £
1921.. 55.406 Nil 639,721
Taxation, £143,894 .. .. 495,827
Written off, £11,559 ~ .. 484,268
1922 111,930 Nil 372,338
Written off, £33,341.. .. 338,997
1923.. 42,778 Nil 296,219
Written off, £58,543.. .. 237,676
Over-provision for taxation, £57,430 295,106
1924.. 21,164 Nil 1 q . O
Transferred to Accident Fund, 1297 ) " ‘
Written off, £11,421.. .. 262,521
From Life Fund, £96 . . . . 262,617
,1925.. 134 5 p.c. = 5,000 257,483
Surplus.
1926.. 46,145 5 p.c.= 5,000 41,145 298,628
1927.. 59,821 5 ~,, 5,000 54,821 353,449
I.oss.
1928.. 42,773 Nil 310,676
From Life Fund, £493 .. .. 311,169
1929.. 42,752 Nil 268,417
Surplus.
.1930.. 13,874 . Nil 13,874 282,291
1931.. 10,899 Nil 10,899 293,190
With reserves nearly three times greater
than paid capital . (£100,000), and the lot
invested mainly in mortgages, debentures
and public securities, .shareholders ought to
be assured of comfortable divs. from interest
returns alone ; yet divs. have averaged only
1.5 p.c. over the last decade. That is
because the management ha.s had no luck in
its efforts to develop other lines since the
rush of marine premiums which swamped the
office during the war period gave out. Much
of what once looked like profits turned out
to be losses; these, the special demands of
the taxgatherer and adjustments of the
book value of securities swallowed over half
a million of reserves during the five years
to the close of accounts in 1925, reducing
them to £257,483.
Most of the mischief since then has been
in the Accident, branch, where despite drastic
curtailment of business, the co. has paid out
in claims and exes. £145,160 more than it
received in premiums during the last four
years. How things panned out for the
last term in this and other departments
the next table shows
Net
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Loss.
Fire .. ..£31,995 £15,431 £17,428 £864
Accident .. 50,682 35,002 26,224 10,544
Surplus.
Marine . . 56,552 39,116 9,365 8,071
Net underwriting loss .. .. .. £3,337
Interest, etc. .. .. .. .. 14,236
Surplus as per table .. .. .. £10,899
Thus the return from investments was a
comfortable 14.2 p.c. on capital. The
national debt conversion and interest-reduc-
tion legislation will, of course, affect these
results. Nevertheless, shareholders’ pros-
pects are bright enough provided the under-
writing business can be got on a profitable
basis, though this may not be easy while
reinsurance bulks largely in the premium
income.
Combining the underwriting figures of all
departments we get these results
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1913.. £1,790 £22 £874 1.2 p.c. 48.8 p.c.
191 S. . 1,142,001 739,044 48,132 64.7 „ 4.2 „
1920.. 568,347 438,830 97,342 77.2 „ 17.1 „
1922.. 229.537 259,678 95,783 113.2 „ 41.7 „
1924.. 162,577 136,485 64,772 83.9 „ 39.8 „
1927.. 326,481 186,809 112.22 S 57.2 ~ 34.4 „
1928.. 292,856 239.825 119,725 81.9 ~ 40.9 „
1929.. 167,470 147,217 76,140 87.9 „ 45.4 „
1930.. 170,969 105,502 65,772. 61.7 „ 38.4 „
1931.. 139,229 89,549 53,017 64.3 „ 38.0 „
Last year’s slip in net premiums was £31,740,
of which £24.242 was on account of accident
business. A tight hold has been kept upon
exes., but nothing much need be expected in
the way of underwriting results until the
quality of the business improves.
Still, policy-holders are well protected. At
the close of accounts they could see net tan-
gibles, apart from the Life fund (£140,41.JL
equal to 282 p.c. of the year’s net premiums
—l5O p.c. is usually considered adequate.
The funds were placed in this way:
1920. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Public securi-
ties .. .. £144,211 £159,904 £159,582 £172,421
els*
bentures, etc. 350.600 240,694 264,043 300,552
Properties . . 70,012 68,584 36,951
Book debts, etc. 230.564 46,700 47,656
Cash, etc. . . 295,808 46,063 34,556 40,312
Odds and ends 5,753 7,162 5,935 5,853
Total assets £1,026,936 £570,535 £580,356 £592,965
Liabilities* .. 141,715 99,325 72,594 56,357
£885,221 £471,210 £507,762 £536,608
* Including provision for taxation (1926, £80,000;
1927, £40,000 ; 1929-31, £2000).
The year’s net improvement was £28,846. of
which £17,948 was on account of Life busi-
ness. Mortgages, etc., included £106.249 of
shares in other cos., but no hint is given as
to what, if anything, they turn in.
Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated)
In 1926 the Commonwealth Life and the
Citizens and Graziers, launched in 1920 and
1921 respectively, decided that the best way
to arrest the drift was to get together and
make an assault upon outgoings. Thus the
present co. took over the two businesses for
£147,192 in shares —96,422 to the Common-
wealth (paid capital, £141,159) and 50,770
to tire C. and G. (paid capital, £155,504,
with a further £121,779 at call). Goodwill
figured at £118.743; it has since advanced
to £120,473, due to purchase of the small
life business of the Colonial Provident in
1927. Owing to State legislation the C. and
G. continues to carry on its business in
Queensland, but any profits that may bo
earned there belong to Amalgamated.
Savings have been made, but the co. can-
not be said to have yet turned the corner.
Moreover, the effect of existing conditions
upon the stability of new business, and
lighter returns from investments, due to
reduction of interest on Government bonds
and on mortgages, etc., have made it more
difficult for this and other youngsters in
the business to get firmly on their feet. Last
year’s net return from investments (£9693)
was 5.9 p.c. on mean funds; but the effect
of the interest reductions referred to had
scarcely been felt.
Looked at as a whole the business has
moved in this way since the merger:—
Excess
Sept., Income. Claims. Exes. Income.
1927.. £114,155 £11,213 £87,361 £15,581
1928.. 125,883 15,065 92,287 18,531
1929.. 133,342 20,340 83,225 29,777
1930.. 131,887 26,978 73,953 30,956
1931.. 120,853 32,853 57,550 30,450
During the 12 months to the end of Sept,
there ivas a sharp drop of £12,962 in net
premiums (£109,892), due mainly to lapses.
These usually mean a dead loss to both
the co. and the policy-holder. To combat
this wastage new- business is being more
rigidly selected —the £582,446 put on the
books last year was little more than half that
written in the previous term —and a firm
hold has been kept upon exes. Still, they
got off with 52.3 p.c. of the premiums as
against 60.2, 66.2 and 76.2 p.c. for the
three preceding years; the movement is
encouraging, but the figure is high.
In the Ordinary department the year’s
exes. (£12,840) took 35.2 of the premiums as
against 45.2 p.c. in 1930:
1929. 1930. 1931.
Policies 1,200 1,042 415
Assuring .. .. £288,805 £261.376 £75,004
First premiums .. 8,669 6,461 3,126
Renewal premiums . . 36,350 36,578 33,35;>
But lapses lifted the cost of new business
to 198 p.c., compared with 192 p.c. in 1930;
that is assuming that new business is 10
times more expensive than old.
New Industrial business put on the books
(£507,442) was £250,267 short of the 1930
figure. Here 59.1 p.c. of the premiums went
in exes, as against 69.2 p.c. in 1930.
So, despite heavier claims and lapses, and
after setting aside £6430 for depreciation of
•investments. £30,450 (only £506 less than in
the previous year) was added to the Assur-
ance fund. The addition was invested in
Government securities: —
1927. 1930. 1931.
Government securities.. £64,875 £159,722 £195,070
Loans on mortgages .. 14,152 8,156 8,050
Cash, etc. . . .. 5,783 3,154 5,856
Loans on policies .. 390 3,178 5,370
Book debts .. .. 9,143 11,250 9,438
Equipment . . . . 10,535 6,239 4,544
Total tangible assets £104,878 £191,699 £228,328
Sundry creditors . . 5,413 12,103 11,755
Net tangable assets.. £99,465 £179,596 £216,573
Life fund .. .. 71,067 148.992 179,442
Surplus .. .. £28,398 £30,604 £37,131
Paid capital .. .. £149,415 £149,921 £149,921
Thus net tangibles exceeded the Life fund
by £37,131 at Sept. 30. But whether this
(Continued on page 16.)


RETURN OF GOODWILL STEAMER
TRADE WITHIN
The EMPIRE
c
Mlli
Ail
sc
cSS
IPIII
%/}
%
4
Q 45
4QA
mOl
;n
gnn
i
y.
miMhill
.'"i
"111
fill.
RECIPROCATE
With CANADA
The new and more comprehensive Trade Agreement between Australia and Canada, effective on August 3
last, should largely increase the interchange between the two greatest dependencies of the British Empire.
The reciprocal voyage of the Goodwill steamer CANADIAN CONSTRUC IOR from Australia to Canada
loaded with Australian goods and products, and on the return voyage with Canadian manufactures, demon-
strates what the new Agreement is accomplishing in the development of inter-Empire trade. Canada is most
anxious for greater expansion in the trade—not one-way traffic—between the Commonwealth and the
Dominion. The purpose of the Agreement is to divert from foreign countries to Australia and to Canada
some of the trade which the two countries hitherto transacted with foreign countries. This mutual exchange
is the basis upon which permanent and increasing trade will be built up within the Empire. Australia can
supply Canada with many lines of goods and products which the Dominion does not produce, while,
inversely, Canada can supply many lines of manufactures hitherto imported from foreign countries into
the Commonwealth.
PROMOTE AUSTRALIA’S PART IN OPENING THIS NEW ERA OF TRADE.
ASK FOR CANADIAN MANUFACTURES AND PRODUCTS.
RECIPROCATE WITH CANADA BY PURCHASING CANADIAN GOODS.
INFORMATION RESPECTING CANADIAN GOODS AND PRODUCTS
Is Readily Available on Application to
THE CANADIAN GOVERNMENT TRADE COMMISSIONER,
90 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
FOR SHIPPING AND TRAVELLING FACILITIES REFER TO:-
4
CANADIAN-A/SIAN LINE,
Union House,
247 George Street,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
193 Mary Street,
BRISBANE.
CANADIAN NATIONAL RLY.,
CANADIAN NATIONAL LINE,
1 7 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
84 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
108 Eagle Street,
BRISBANE.
CANADIAN PACIFIC RLY.,
Union House,
247 George Street,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
193 Mary Street,
BRISBANE.
If you can’t buy what you want at
Home buy within the British Empire


The Future of the
Market.
This is one of the subjects dis-
cussed in the December
Cat’ Monthly.”
“The Monthly” puts the work
of a staff of accountants and
investment specialists at your
disposal.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2 1-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Codlison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
The destruction and expense caused to metal pipes
through corrosion, to say nothing of the serious
decrease in the pipes’ capacity and general efficiency,
is a matter of grave concern to those responsible
for water supply and its maintenance. Absolute
elimination of the menace of corrosion is ensured
when Pioneer Wood Pipe is specified. This modern
conduit is absolutely non-corrosive and carries a
full bore of water throughout its life. In addition,
Pioneer Wood Pipe is light, strong, durable and
costs considerably less than metal pipe, not only in
first cost but in installing and maintenance costs.
Write for particulars. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
(near Figtree Bridge) ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
► —Ap,VT.
* :> t- *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fusa
Detonators
Cartridges
If Making
a new WILL
owing to your altered financial position, consider
appointing as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual
Trustee Company (Limited). Its qualifications
include Security, Experience and Expert Manage-
ment. Call or write for free explanatory booklet.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
E. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 186 S. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 90
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD. AND REDUCED.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.: —
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney., Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, send your gold by post (insured) to any of our offices.
The Company will realise it on your account at current London prices plus
exchange.
fund covers liabilities under policies will not
be known definitely until the Actuary com-
pletes his overhaul, now in progress.
As the “Wild Cat” has frequently pointed
out. the most satisfactory solution of the
difficulties of these young offices lies in
wholesale amalgamation.
Mt. Morgan
Mt. Morgan, Ltd., which is engaged in
precipitating copper from water pumped from
the old mine, made a loss of £4435 for the
12 months to June 30 last. The 270.7 tons
of precipitates, containing 219.8 tons of
copper, that were shipped realised £9957,
and the sale of old plant, etc., brought in
£5106. The average copper content of the
water was 2.71 b. per 1000 gallons. It was
found chat water spread over the new area
on the Linda level was held back by subsi-
dence of the andesite dyke, and only reached
the pump after descending below the 750 ft.
level, thus becoming diluted and passing over
old iron in the flooded part of the workings.
By means of drill holes the average grade
has' since been raised to 3.Slb. of copper per
1000 gallons. But satisfactory recoveries
an' not likely to be obtained until the mine
water can be got below the 850 ft. level, and
present equipment is unequal to the task.
Interest now centres chiefly in the treat-
ment of 664,000 tone of ore, which overlays
the Linda level, assaying 6.52dwt. gold and
.91 p.c. copper. Excluding exchange and
the bounty, A. A. Boyd figures that this is
worth 6s. 4d. per ton net, with gold fetch-
ing 85s. and copper £4O. A 20-30 ton sample,
taken under supervision of the Mines Depart-
ment, is being tested by W. B. Lennon at
Mt. Isa. The result, and the extra capital
required to treat 3000 tons of ore per week,
will be announced .at the annual meeting,
to be held Dec. 30.
Oil Search, Ltd., a prospecting co. formed
by Oriomo Oil in 1928, has done a lot of
spade work in the Matapau area, New
Guinea, in western Queensland, in the
Wooramel River basin, Westralia, in the
Mt. Gambier district (S.A.), and in Gipps-
land (A r ic.). A subsidiary is now test-
boring Knight’s Dome, alongside the Mt.
Gambier-Beachport railway line, but does
not expect to meet with the oil-bearing hori-
zon until April next. Another offshoot will
presently be formed to drill Talbot’s Dome, in
the Wooramel basin. At Matapau G. A. V.
Stanley has made a geological survey, which
won high praise from Dr. Woolnough, but
more work remains to be done before drill-
ing can be recommended. Nothing of import-
ance has yet been proved on the co.’s Long-
reach areas, where activities continue. At
June 30 the co. had £3435 in cash and
debtors’ balances; creditors figured for £9lO.
* * * *
“Oilman”: An interesting experiment is
being made by the Midwest Oil Co. at Lakes
Entrance (Vic.) in a borehole not far from
the South Australian Oil Well Co.’s No. 8
bore. An American oil engineer named
Lightner, not satisfied that what has been
regarded as bedrock by the drillers of many
holes near by is true granitic bedrock, went
on drilling the Midwest Co.’s No. 2 bore-
hole after it reached the usual hrfrd grey-
ish formation. H'e found that every foot
of drilling below 1350 ft. became easier and
softer. The drill has reached 1376 ft., gas
is coming up, and the lime mixed with the
greyish rock reacts to hydrochloric acid. If
an oil sand is struck below this depth it
would bring back to the field many derricks
which have gone to Longford.
* * * *
The Palmer River Co.’s dredge at Strath-
leven (N.Q.) recovered Sl9oz. 12dwt. gold,
worth £4295, during the eight months to Aug'.
31; but the net result was a loss of £852.
That was because heavy sand clogged the
riffles and much of the fine gold escaped.
The installation of shakers (cost £1250) is
expected to overcome the difficulty, and
shareholders look for recoveries approxi-
mating bore values (Is. Id. per yard) early
in the new year. A hydraulic sluicing plant,
bought for £3300, is expected to cost another
£5OOO to instal on the co.’s Bonanza lease.
At Aug. 31 there was £13,878 coming to
creditors, including £6062 of accrued pref.
divs. Liquids totalled £1117; the dredge,
etc., figured at £37,776, and the co.’s hold-
ings at £43,550, of which £11,254 had been
spent on development, etc. Paid capital is
£68,566 in 30,914 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and
51,687 ords. A further 17,399 ords. are now
offered. The whole undertaking is under offer
to a London group for £300,000 cash.
* * * *
Etheridge Gold Mines is a well-backed
Brisbane float formed to work several leases
on the Etheridge goldfield (N.Q.). The
holdings include the old Queenslander mine
which, before water and scarcity of labor
caused its abandonment, produced 32,000
ounces of gold from as many tons of stone;
the metal was worth 84s. per ounce. Others
are the Big Reef and the Nil Desperandum,
both well-known propositions in the early
days of the field. In the Queenslander, the
reef has been proved to a depth of 360 ft. and
for a length of 1335 ft. It varies from Ift.
to 3ft. in thickness, and is consistent in
values. Preliminary development will in-
clude the sinking of an underlie west of the
main shaft, pumping out the water and
generally cleaning up. Capital is £15,000
in £1 shares, of which 5000 paids go to
F. G. de V. Gipps for leases; 7500 are
offered and the remaining 2500 are in pickle.
An early difficulty was the intractability of
the ores at depth. But arrangements are
being made with Chillagoe smelters to treat
this class of stuff by modern methods, which
will mean recovery of the silver and lead
content.
* =s * *
The Cracow gold diggings (Q.) should be
producing next year. While Randolph Bed-
ford is negotiating his options, a report full
of meat has been brought out by geologist
J. H. Reid. Prospects are analysed and
ore reserves given. While technically
developed reserves are small, reference is
made to a bonanza on Lambert’s Discovery
lease, average assays running round 3oz. to
4oz. of gold. About 600 tons of this grade
are in sight, but the size of the deposit is yet
to be proved. Several low-grade deposits
of large size look like developing payable
ore. Of these Bessells South Arm promises
best. On the whole the report should pro-
vide a tonic for the field.
* * # #
The Canoona field (C.Q.), which put
Rockhampton in a ferment with 750 z. of
gold in one shift’s dirt, has been turning
out further rich slugs. One bucket last
week gave 150 z., and for the past few weeks
there have been spasmodic recoveries.
Authoritative opinion is that the deposit is
not yet important, and prospectors are not
advised to rush there.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: Another old-time Queens-
land field has been raked over, and a minor
rush has started. This is the Mt. Britten
area, inland from Mackay, which was first
pegged in 1880, and for some time carried
over 1000 men. J. G. Martin has struck a
patch containing nuggety gold; he and his
mates have applied for a prospecting area,
and half a dozen other claims have been
pegged. In the old days the field was entirely
alluvial; it petered out because capital could
not be got for its development.
* * * *
Low-grade copper shows in the Herberton
district (N.Q.) are coming into their own.
With sufficient sulphur content for fluxing
purposes, manager Rutledge, at Chillagoe, is
paying a flat rate for this class of ore. With
the assistance of a subsidy, gougers are
doing fairly well. A few years ago - these
shows were abandoned as unpayable.
* * * *
Major J. G. Harrison, mining manager of
New Guinea Goldfields, who came south on
leave the other day, says that thus far the
co. has only tackled the alluvial deposits.
Production work on the reefs, which are
being opened up and proved, should begin
within a few months. The co. has built a
power station at the Wau, near the moun-
tain airport, whither ’planes conveyed the
plant in sections from the coast.
* * * *
This from a man on the Tauri River, in
the central west of Papua, a field of which
the dwellers in possession have been enter-
taining high hopes:—
Just back from the top of the Tauri, but have
not found anything worth while, though fair values
were got all along the river and in most of the
creeks coming in. The Tauri is a wash-out as
regards working with boxes in the old style. Most
of the miners have left. Some of them have
delayed lower down on the old workings of the
Lakekamu, where they can still get a few penny-
weights a day; but this is only to see them through,
so that they won’t have to transport their goods,
etc., back to the Port.
One old hand got 25dwt. on this field for 12 days’
work. Another party of four worked about eight
weeks for 270 z. It is great country to prospect in;
every creek you try will give colors. The natives
are friendly. We got plenty of native food in
exchange for knives and axes, of which they had
none.
* * * #
After a 40-year stoppage it is proposed to
set the wheels going on the Marshal Mac-
Mahon reef, 12 miles from Harden
(N.S.W.). A syndicate has taken up the
lease and put up a five-head battery, and
another five stamps are on order. For years
there has been 1200 tons of 6dwt. ore at
grass, and there is any amount of water
in the old mine—one of the reasons for its
abandonment. A trial crushing of this stone
returned 15oz. for 50 tons over the plates.
It is claimed that when the knocker went for
the last time years ago the then co. hail
bottomed on a 9ft. reef going 3Joz., so the
mine is to be unwatered. Picked samples
from the dump have gone as high as 4oz.
Another show in the neighborhood, Cun-
ningham Creek Gold Dredging, is being over-
hauled by an expert on behalf of English
interests. Also, a co. is being floated in
Melbourne to dredge Blind Creek, near the
once rich Harden mine.
There are about 50 men on the new field
at Mongolata, 14 miles north-east of Burra
(S.A.). The lodes, which consist principally
of quartz, outcrop for 5i miles on the eastern
side of the hills. The gold is associated
chiefly with ironstone, and specimen stuff
going up to 6oz. per ton has been obtained;
but intervening portions of the lode have
proved barren or low-grade. The total ore
treated from this field to date is about 37-2
tons for over 138 oz. of bullion, valued at
£531. The cost of sending ore to the Gov-
ernment battery at Peterborough is equiva-
lent to about 6-7dwt. of gold. A feature of
the ore treatment has been the high value of
battery tailings, some going 19dwt. 21gr. per
ton, thus making cyaniding indispensable.
Prospecting has been confined mainly to the
eastern side of the hills, but gold-bearing
veins have been found in the slate beds to the
west, and further extension of these beds
is considered probable. Some alluvial fos-
sicking has been done, but nothing worth
mentioning in the way of values has shown
up.
:1s sis :1s :1s
Perth and Kalgoorlie are wondering what
Broken Hill Prop, is going to try next. It
has looked at several shows, done some boring
at Laverton and Kalgoorlie and is now test-
ing Boulder No. 1, which used to be the
Enterprise lease, at Boulder Block. The
co. is believed to have its eye on something
bigger within or on, the fringe of the Golden
Mile. An option on the Mararoa leases
near Cue, which Great Boulder Prop, turned
down, is also considered likely.
4s # * *
“Cuzijan”: Although prominent concerns
like B. H. Prop, and Gold Mines of Aus-
tralia are displaying enthusiasm in the hunt
for new properties, Australia has not yet
witnessed intensive mine examination as car-
ried on in the ancient rock-areas of Canada
and Africa. In Canada, in 1930, Consoli-
dated Mining and Smelting reported on no
fewer than 452 properties. Only 16 of these
were optioned, and but two of the properties
were taken up. This is about the proportion
of the finds that turned out to be big mines,
though some of the others would probably
justify working on a small scale. In the
examination of properties the Consolidated
employs no fewer than 19 engineers and 27
assistants. It has its own flying service, and
the ’planes flew 325,162 miles in 1930.
$ . $ ❖ ❖
Great Boulder (W.A.) is looking for some-
thing special, and the market has firmed on
the offchance of it being successful. One
show, which it roughly sampled, was esti-
mated by experts to have £lO,OOO or more
profit exposed at each level, without taking
into account possible extensions of the
shoot laterally or in depth. But Boulder
couldn’t see a return of capital in the first
thousand feet or so of sinking, so it walked
away. It has tried and given up many ven-
tures in the last decade.
* * * *
Chairman J. A. Agnew, of Lake View and
Star, says there is a chance of divs. being
resumed towards the end of 1932. The last
was paid in 1921; the board has on several
occasions since hoped for the best, but the
worst happened. Still, a new plant, the
exchange premium and the gold bonus should
make a difference.
* * * *
For a time developments at depth sug-
gested that Sons of Gwalia was ■ near the
end. But the discovery of new stone bright-
ened prospects in both upper and lower
levels, and the mine now gives promise of
becoming one of the best in the West. Its
costs are the lowest.
* * * *
Satupolo Tin, a Melbourne floated show
working in Southern Siam, set an example
by finishing the year to March 31 last with
a profit of £14,650, which beat the previous
year’s figure by £867. Increasing output
and lower reduction costs did the trick.
Recoveries for the year were 520 tons of
t.o. from 14.80 z. ground at a cost of 5.48 d. per
c.y. The co. has appealed against its
restricted output quota of 126 tons for the
six months to the end of February next,
and the dredge will be stopped pending a
decision. For the seven months to October 31
the dredge has recovered 203 tons of oxide.
The pound shares are quoted Bs.
*,* * *
The committee controlling the Inter-
national Tin Pool now holds 19,000 tons of
tin, all of which appears in visible supplies.
The Governments which are signatories to
the international quota have agreed to
observe it for three years from August 12
last. ' The committee has lifted the price
at which 5 p.c. of the pool’s holding can be
released for sale from £l5O to £165 per ton.
The figure at which 10 per cent, may be
released is £175, and further release prices
have been adjusted accordingly.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
In view of the deletion of the personal
liability covenant in all N. S. Wales mort-
gages, exactly what specific security was
granted to Farmers' debenture-holders?
7542.
The £500,000 of 6 p.c. bearer debentures
issued by Farmers in May, 1927, were secured
by first mortgage on the co.’s Pitt and Kent
streets properties, then valued at £9<b,UOU.
No floating charge was granted by the pros-
pectus over other assets. The issue is repay-
able in July, 1989, and is at £77 on the
market.
I hold a few shares in Vocation (4 us-
tralasia), Ltd. How is the co. getting on.
7283
This co. recently went into liquidation
and has sold its undertaking to another
concern. Write to the liquidators, Flack and
Flack, 128 William-street, Melbourne, and
ask whether you are likely to recover any-
thing from the wreckage.
(1) Where ( Q.) can I get a portable hand
or power battery to crush gold-bearing stone?
(2) Weight and capacity of same? (3)
Weight and capacity of portable power plant
used by Westralian Government? (4) Do
you know anything about a new discovery
for pumping water from ground level to any
height? (5) Is cyaniding of battery sands
the best treatment? —7172.
(1) Hand batteries supplied by Engineer-
ing Supply Co., of Aust., Ltd., Edward-
street, Brisbane. Hand or power by G. J.
Beck, 407 Wickham-terrace, Brisbane.
Powei', semi-portable, by Burns and Twigg,
Rockhampton. (2) Weight, 2cwt. to sewt.
Capacity 4to 14 tons a week. (3) Forty-
five cwt. with amalgamating and concentrat-
ing tables. Heaviest part 7cwt.; 25 to 35
tons per week. (4) No. (5) Cyanide treat-
ment is general practice.
(1) Standard work on treatment of gold
and bismuth ores: where obtainable and
price? (2) Value of gold and bismuth con-
centrates f.o.b. Sydney? (3) Name of Aus-
tralian buyers? —7l39.
(1) “Text Book of Ore Dressing,” by
R. H. Richards. Barker’s Bookstore, Adel-
aide-street, Brisbane; price about 255. (2)
and (3) Address inquiries to Elliott Bros.,
Torrington (N.S.W.), or F. Hambridge,
Box 1557 E, G.P.0., Sydney.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
D.R.S.: (1) Highly speculative, and the
fact that interest has been paid proves nothing so
far as the industry is concerned. (2) Fair; there
are safer... .J.M. (Barraba) : Don’t know a great
deal about the proposition, but it is decidedly
speculative.


Bookstall
Library
CITY and
COUNTRY
A LIBRARY
DE LUXE
’PHONE: M 4861.
THE BEST
XMAS
AND
NEW YEAR
GIFT
Subscription
to the
BooKstall Library
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
CITY
1 Book at a time and
1 Magazine
2 Books at a time
Three
Months.
8/6
12/6
Six
Months.
15/6
£l/2/6
Twelve
Months.
£l/ 7 /6
£2
2 Books at a time and
2 Magazines
OR
3 Books at a time and
1 Magazine
£l/7/6 £2/10/-
COUNTRY
8 Books at a time £l/15/- £2/15/-
1 0 Books at a time . . £2/5/- £3/7/6
Country Clients pay freight both ways at specially reduced rates.
New Books added immediately on arrival.
Subscriptions may start at any time :: Payable in advance.
Books may be changed as often as desired.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY
What We Promise We Perform
H fiISCUS
FENCING WlRri
FENCE STANDARDS
'WORE STRAINERS
Autoscrew Droppers
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES LIMITED-?-.
That is why we have the largest
distributing trade in Queensland.
Our tremendous turnover ensures
you bedrock prices,
And We Don’t
Charge Sales Tax.
Just compare the following; so
why pay more?
HIBISCUS DOVER No. 7 80/-, No. 8 90/-. (We have cheaper brands at 5/-
less.
New shipment of British Make 26g—
-sft. 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. 10ft. sheets.
2/6 2/11 3/5 4/- 4/6 5/2
AND WE DON’T CHARGE SALES TAX.
Also once used second-hand iron bought at auction —all
lengths 4d. per foot, and No Sales Tax.
In sheets 6ft. x 3ft. for panel work, etc., 12/6 per 100 sq. ft.
less 5 p.c. or 2/3 per sheet.
5/- per bag, in any quantity.
Standard quality, 11/6 per gallon.
New shipment of Oregon Doors 6ft. Bin. x 2ft. Sin. x 1-Jin.
moulded. M. and T., 17/6 each.
STOVES
GALV. IRON
THREE-PLY
WOOD
CEMENT
CROWN PAINT
JOINERY
CREAM
SEPARATORS
We sell to you
£l6
The New Era. The very latest machine,
at direct factory prices, as follows: —
15 gallons .... £5/10/- .. 45 gallons
22 gallons .... £B/10/- . . 60 gallons .... £l9
30 gallons £9/10/- . . 90 gallons £22
Less 10 p.c. for cash. TERMS IF REQUIRED.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL NEW ERA SEPARATOR
BOOKLET.
* We also supply Tinned Seamless Cream Cans as follows: —
Sizes 2 3 4 5 6 8 10 gals.
Prices .. 17/- 18/3 19/6 22/- 24/3 27/- 30/-
LESS 10 P.C. FOR CASH.
COLD SAFES —the Hibiscus —no ice required—the only ventilated safe on the
market. No. 1, 72/6. BUSH SHOWER BATHS, 10/- each. GALV. PIPING,
all sizes, wholesale list prices less 25 p.c. net. BONE MEAL, sterilised, £ll/15/-
ton, or 12/6 bag of 1001 b. MEGGITT’S MEAL, £l2 ton, or 12/6 bag of 1001 b.
COTTON-SEED MEAL, 15/- per 2001 b. bag. ARZEEN, for weed- and tree-killing,
lOd. per pound. CASE NAILS, flat heads, loose, in lcwt. eases, 13g 26/- cwt.,
14g 28/- cwt., 15g 29/3 cwt. AND NO SALES TAX TO PAY.
VENUS MOTOR SPIRIT, guaranteed first-grade, in 44-gallon drums, 1/9 per
gallon. New .303 Martini-Henry Rifles, 50/- each. 20g Military Shot Guns, 30/-
cach. SPRAY PUMPS, Rega Brass Knapsack, 75/-. Bucket Spray Pumps, 22/b
Lowest also for —
SADDLERY, TENTS. TARPAULINS, RAINCOATS, GROCERIES, GUNS,
PLOUGHS, FURNITURE, KITCHENWARE, TUBS.
The 7th Edition oj our large copyrighted illustrated catalogue will give you full
details of all the above.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
Mining Machinery of Modern Design and Construction
‘ \'S
I . —»
■% . 4 . * v. ,3!
■M
1 j
£Hf
+
9
. : ii
Hr
/
P&E2Sw>£
hBH :
ms
' * :
ms&i
Bft. x 48in. “RUWOLT” CONICAL BALL MILL.
WEIGHT, 35 TONS.
This Mill was designed and manufactured by us to the order of the North
Broken Hill, Ltd., and is operating in their new Milling Plant recently installed
by them at the Mine. The Company has now placed an order with us for
Three Additional Mills of exactly similar construction to the above. This may
be taken as an indication of the excellence of our products.
PATENTED
EQUIPMENT
We are the Sole Licensees
in Australia for the Manu-
facture of
“WH FI FY”
SAND AND GRAVEL
PUMPS
“FAHRENWALD”
FLOTATION UNITS
Either of these Units are
indispensable for Modern
Mining Plants.
“RUWOLT”
PORTABLE
MILLING PLANTS
to handle crude ore for
Small Mines,
Pilot Plants
and Prospectors.
Made in three sizes.
Capacity: Half Ton to
Three Tons per hour
respectively.
The Mill, illustrated, is a good example of the class of high-grade work that we are continually producing.. Our experience in, and
resources for, the design and manufacture of any type of machinery required for the Crushing, Milling, Dressing and Treatment of Ore
are unequalled, and we will be glad to submit designs and quotations for suitable Plant on receipt of enquiries.
CHARLES RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Saturday) .... “Florodora”
Criterion “The House that Jack Built” Pantomime
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Sinbad the Sailor” Pantomime
King's “As Husbands Go”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
Fifty years ago the hard-and-fast rules
concerning Christmas pantomimes were that
the title should denote connection with a
fairy tale and that there should be a harle-
quinade. This was felt to be too restrictive,
so the second rule was dropped and the first
expanded to include nursery rhymes and “The
Arabian Nights,” it being reckoned that the
youngsters, most of whom get their first
glimpse of the stage through this medium,
wouldn’t be disappointed so long as there
were some very elaborate scenic effects for
them to feast their eyes upon. It seemed
to this Showman, gazing on “The House that
Jack Built,” at Sydney Her Majesty’s, that
the scenery isn’t what it used to be, though
there are 10 changes and a transformation,
but possibly the old man with the hour-
glass is the nark, and not the Firm. Eight-
years-old, whose opinion in these matters is
worth more than that of a monster meeting
of adult theatregoers, lived in Fairyland for
three hours and a half and came out reluct-
antly. A strong feature of this year’s “Jack”
is the horde of pretty kids that every
now and then takes the stage by storm. Alfred
Frith is principal funmaker, and Nell Taylor
and Josephine Trix, both with nice little
voices, do most of the singing. The rest of
the effect is got by the surging activities of
scores of folk, young and old, whose names
are unknown to the public. The music is
punk, but not punker than last year.
* ft- ¥
“Babes in the Wood,” the Christmas panto,
at Sydney Grand Opera House, is the best
children’s entertainment seen at this stand
for many a year. George Marlow seems to
have remembered what pantomimes are for.
The star jester is Bert le Blanc, as Roger
the Ruthless, one of the hired ruffians who
escorted the unwanted infants to the forest.
Ken Hill is the wicked uncle, and Charles
Sadler the Dame. Dorothy Dewar, as Robin
Hood, sings the Principal Boy’s songs in a
voice of great quantity. Costuming and stage
settings are pretty, and the ballets are
effectively grouped. Sandwiched between the
score or more scenes are acrobats, specialty
dancers and musicians, including the Fredo
Boys, the Pall Mall Duo and the Dalman
Troupe.
* # *
The Welsh Choral Society took posses-
sion of the stage and its abutting seats at
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night, and
overflowed into the galleries on either side,
and an audience respectable in numbers and
simply prodigious in enthusiasm cheered it
on. The occasion was a performance of “The
Messiah,” conducted by Dr. Cyril Jenkins.
The essential beauty of this great oratorio
was realised —the smooth, velvety motion _of
part over part, the dramatically descriptive
intent of the music, and the deep, devotional
atmosphere of the work. The choir proved to
be well balanced despite its size, and it
declaimed the choruses like an organ under
sensitive fingers. The soloists: Isolde Hill,
soprano; Marie Gordon, contralto; Lance
Jefree, tenor, and Oliver King, bass, were
adequate to their task. The orchestra could
have been larger with advantage.
Latest revue at Sydney Roxy is “The Fun
Factory,” featuring Hector St. Clair arid in-
cluding a really funny burlesque on opera.
The Flying Omars, eight of them, contribute
a bright acrobatic turn. To-morrow night
the co. switches into pantomime, with Bert
Ray as the dame —the olio will be called
“Cinderella.”
* #
The Entertainers’ production of “Day
Dreams” at Sydney Savoy was a charity
effort. It is a musical comedy by Richard
R. Ramon, of Sydney, and the
efforts of ex-lounge-lizard Tony Leeds (Eddie
Finn) to trick Juanitte (Beulah Mayhew)
into selling her Mexican orange groves.
Three nice young couples plan to marry if
he succeeds —which he does, and he marries
Juanitte. Miss Mayhew out-acted the rest.
These, whilst elocuting well, were weak o-n
gesture. Funny-man George Carden showed
that he can dance. Four songs written by
him were presented ; “Mexicades,” the bright-
est, provided music for a pony ballet.
* ¥ *
St. James Hall’s stage, Sydney, became
the parlor of Mrs. Sharpe’s Bloomsbury
boarding-house when the Austral Players
presented “The Passing of the Third Floor
back.” Producer Harold Fraser (playing
the Stranger), Kathleen Gaffney and John
Byrne did the thing well,
* *
At Sydney’s St. James’s Hall on Satur-
day, the New Repertory Society will burst
forth with “On the Doorstep,” an Ameri-
can comedy in which the interest hinges on
the paternity of a foundling.
* * *
Melbourne theatres are holding themselves
in reserve in order to spring out on. the
unwary critic en masse on Boxing Day.
Gladys Moncrieff made her last descent from
the Mountains for the purposes of the
immediate present at the Royal on Satur-
day. “Sinbad” will sign on there a week
later. Delegates to the “League of Happi-
ness,” established by Ernest Rolls at the
Palace, are notified that the first session of
the council, which will include Gus Bluett,
Jennie Brenan and other plenipoten-
tiaries, will also open on Boxing Day. Ethel
Morrison and co. will be in attendance on
the same date at the Comedy to answer all
inquiries concerning “As Husbands Go.”
George Wallace will venture on the theme' of
Cinderella at the Bijou, and Jim Gerald,
who is “Love All” at the Tiv6li at present,
is changing the title of his bright entertain-
ment every Friday.
* * *
Evidently Gregan McMahon thought there
were enough adults who still believe in
Father Christmas to make G. K. Chesterton’s
“Magic” a commercial proposition at Melb.
King’s: as a play it is futile. G.K.C.’s capa-
city for growing out is granted; his ability to
grow up is more than doubtful. Stripped
of its literary pretentiousness “Magic” is
indistinguishable from 100 fairy plays now
being performed at school break-ups through-
out the country. Patricia Carleon, the
heroine, who meets a mysterious stranger
engaged in making stones disappear in her
ducal uncle’s shrubbery and accepts him as
an astral visitor, is a frank absurdity. If
any average citizen had her in his family
he would feel a burning desire to put her
in a mental hospital. Instead the mysterious
stranger falls in love with the creature, thus
producing a situation which has no parallel
in the pathology of dramatic characterisa-
tion outside “Mary Rose,” Barrie’s study
of adult infantility. The stranger turns out
to be a juggler, but an unusual kind of
juggler who has sold himself to the Devil and
fills the duke’s home with demons. The
girl’s brother, an oil man, who symbolises
American materialism, goes off his head
when the juggler turns a red light blue and
makes a picture wobble on the wall. Mean-
while the duke potters about, getting laughs
by the simple artifice of giving replies which
have no relation to the questions put to
him. Finally the juggler exorcises the
demons and marries the girl, and thus one
THE SUNDRY SHOWMAN’S IDEAL CABINET.
Prime Minister, Rt. Hon.
HECTOR ST. CLAIR,
A.M.B. (always merry
and bright).
Minister of Loans, Hon.
the Whistling Boundary-
rider.
Treasurer, Rt. Hon,
GLADYSMONCRIEFF.
(Can supply any required
quantity of notes.)
Minister in Charge of
Repatriation, Hon. the
Latest and Most Stupen-
dous Specialty Act from
U.S.A. (He can start
with himself.)
Minister of Defence, Hon.
SYD BECK. (Entire military
force in offing.)
Minister of Censor-
ship, Hon. MO.
Minister of Fine Arts: (if
any), Hon. ANTONIO
GOTSUCHAKOFFSKI
(musical novelty); also
Assistant-Minister, with-
out portfolio.
Joint Ministers of Industry,
Hons, the FALLOW TWINS.
Minister in Charge of
Imports, Hon. PHIL
FINKELSTEIN,
N.B., P.S., F.O.B. (in
conjunction with sec-
retaryship of Firm.)
household is made safe for the fairies. If
Chesterton proves anything it is that if a
person believes in the existence of fairies,
then fairies exist for that person, which is
an obvious truism; but the stout playwright
would have.us all believe in fairies, on the.
strength of the damsel’s experience in the
shrubbery. Well, there was a time when the
public had a belief in witches and on the
strength of it burned thousands of wretched
women. In the circumstances the perform-
ance was meritorious, its brightest items
being McMahon’s human Dr.. Grimthorpe
and Thomas Skewes’s delightful duke.
Frederick Hughes, as the Stranger, was pom-
pous, platitudinous and preposterous in
accordance with the dramatist’s prescrip-
tion. Thelma Scott, as the girl, Reginald
H’ardinge, as a symbol of clerical - material-
ism, and Michael Hagen, as the oil man,
helped to maintain the . atmosphere of
general unreality. The best play (and the.
best performance) of the season has . been
“The Constant Nymph,” and McMahon was
wise to revive it.
* # . #
Vic. Liedertafelists ranged themselves on
Melb. Town Hall..platform one night last
week and gave a good audience a Christmas
box in the shape of some of the best singing
they have provided with for a long time.
City organist William McKie, their new
conductor, is presumably to be credited with
the improvement. The programme included
Mendelssohn’s “Festgesang,” rendered* with
the unanimity of a vote of confidence in
Mr. Lyons, proposed, seconded and voted
for by Mr. Lyons. Two lovely canzonets,
“Come Sirrah, Jack Ho” and “Though
Philomena Lost Her Love,” which are 300
years old and as fresh as a daisy, were
rapturously received and the last was
repeated. A part song, “Now Is the Time
of Christymas,” by Arnold Bax, was graced
by a bubbling obligato contributed by
Richard Chugg, flautist; Clare Davis sang
some Schumann in a voice of fine quality
which needs higher education; and Norman
Menzies was as impressive as ever in Bach’s
“Good Fellows, Be Merry.”
* * *
“Theatrical Iconoclast”: Ned Kelly has
been the hero of books galore. Good. W. M.
Hughes has been the subject of a biography.
Still good. But why shouldn’t Mo have a
monograph? For one' thing, he is an Aus-
tralian, or something—as he would pro-
bably inform his audience. Not that I
have much time for national sentiment in
art; still, it lias some value. Some people
would hold that Mo isn’t Art. I hold that
he is Art, much more so than many histrions
regarded as more eminent because they
happen to be more respectable. Mo’s talent
is all his own —absolutely native to him--
whereas eminent actors like Frank Harvey
strike me as exponents of a convention made
by other actors. Mo has the essential of
great art —simplicity. He founds his appeal
on fundamental elements in human nature.
That is why the crowds follow him where-
ever he goes. Other comedians are just as
low without being funny. One Melbourne
comedian who tried to steal Mo’s thunder
recently only succeeded in emptying, the
house. There are many comedians wittier
than Mo but few half as appealing. Mo’s
audiences react to him spontaneously. He
tickles their unconscious. Other actors
require brilliant dialogue, elegant scenery,
elaborate stories and other extraneous assist-
ance, and hence only appeal to the intellect.
A nightie and an old iron bedstead are all
Mo needs. On the stage, if he will excuse
me saying so, Mo is a repulsive-looking
.creature. His gestures are ungainly, his
behavior is frequently disgusting, his words
few and usually meaningless. There is
ndtliing romantic about him, yet his
■ audiences love him. What is the secret of
his success? I hazard that it is that he
represents with absolute consistency one of
the eternal verities. His message is the
same in kind, if not in degree, as that of
Charlie Chaplin, Leason’s Little Taxpayer
and Beethoven in his symphonies. Each
represents man’s eternal struggle with his
destiny. I have tried Reason’s Taxpayer on
all sorts of people and .their reaction is
always the same. The recognise themselves
without knowing it and are filled with self-
pity. In terms of political symbolism the
Little Taxpayer is man’s soul perpetually
struggling for that freedom which it feels
is its inalienable right. Chaplin does the
same thing in terms of romantic sentiment.
It is his fate to be continually defeated, but,
as the pathetic little figure fades out of
the picture, one is left with the feeling
that it is waddling into a fresh adventure
of the spirit which is waiting round the
corner. Hope springs eternal. He will win
next time. Mo is doing the same thing
in the more concrete terms of amorous enter-
prise. There is a difference, however, between
Mo and his artistic colleagues, except, per-
haps, Beethoven. He nearly always wins.
Why does the spectacle of this Semite, with
his death’s head, his paralytic walk and his
unspeakable clothes, cuckolding a good-
looking husband fill an audience with delight
when it ought to fill it with moral indigna-
tion. Obviously because Mo’s example in-
spires it with the feeling that, an it would,
it could go and do likewise, despite its piti-
ful inadequacies. A man, says Mo, even
though a despised Jew, can be master of his
destiny if he wants to be. Actors tend to
over-intellectualise emotion. Mo doesn’t
make that mistake. He is a great realist.
The Palette,
The exhibition of the Australian Painter-
Etchers’ Society at David Jones’s gallery,
Sydney, is made, up of etchings, aquatints,
woodblocks and pencil-drawings by 30
assorted artists, mostly of Sydney. It is
not an inspiring show, the choice of
subjects being very, very limited, and the
treatment, making allowance for gradations
of skill in draftsmanship and mastery of the
medium, practically uniform. Doubtless
there is a great deal of good, faithful work
embodied in the dozens of stereotyped
scenes, but in such a show only the unusual
has a chance of commanding more than
passing attention, and there is little that
is unusual. Harold Byrne gets both realism
and romanticism into his shadows in the
etchings “Eaneway” and “Sleeping Street’’;
J. A. Crisp performs a little tour de force
in pencil technique in “The Pigeon Cote’’;
Vernon ITilder achieves pleasing decorative
effects in the aquatints “Fig-tree Grove”
and “Concrete Bridge”; Syd Long has a
rattlingly good poster in blue, “The Mill
by the River,” in aquatint; and Gladys
Owen just misses immortalising Milson’s
Point and the Bridge in a plucky woodcut
by carrying the verticals of the bridge down
through the lower arch, so that they look
like battens nailed to a chicken-coop. Will
Ashton, Vincent Sheldon, F. Sidney Walker
and Charles Nuttall show some work that
almost merits the adjective “distinguished,”
and the memory of the late Thomas Frieden-
sen is perpetuated by half a dozen etchings
of remarkably good quality.
When an artist finds the medium that
comes most kindly to his fingers he’s wise to
stick to it. Lloyd Rees, whose work has
been decking the walls of Sydney’s Mac-
quarie Galleries lately, specialises in the
pencil and gets some remarkably rich effects
in landscape. His happy hunting-ground is
along the shores of Sydney Harbor. He has
discovered Ball’s Head, that vastly pictur-
esque headland, and is amenable to the
romantic lure of Balmain, which (seen at a
distance) is everywhere pictorial. A draw-
ing that at first glance looks like a panorama
of Venice or Genoa turns out to be a per-
fectly faithful transcript of McMahon’s
Point with the spires and domes of metro-
politan Sydney in the background. It makes
one wonder why so many Australian painters
go to the Mediterranean for “color” when so
much can be captured (may the bull be for-
given) with a stub of lead-pencil withiu
coo-ee of Martin-place.
Principal feature of a show of pencil draw-
ings and color woodcuts at Sydney’s Gros-
venor Galleries is a selection of prints by
the Viennese artist Bresslern-Roth. These
exhibit the art of many-color wood-block print-
ing at its charming best. Every design is a
decorative study in beauty of line and nice
balance, and the color effects, some of which
look very rich and complex, are obtained by
astonishingly simple means. Less sophisti-
cated, but delightful in their effective use of
flat tints, are the landscape designs of Carl
Rotky. Some of Lloyd Rees’s pencil draw-
ings and Margaret Preston’s bold floral wood-
cuts are on show, and there are two very
snappy chalks by Keith Bryant and a por-
trait of great delicacy. Some war-time
sketches by the late George Lambert have a
reliquary interest.
Gustav Michael Pillig, an artist whose
existence was previously unsuspected, has
broken out in almost every kind of art at
125 Little Collins-street. His nudes in oil
are crude and his gum-trees have been hastily
observed, but. there is an interesting etching
called “The End of Civilisation,” iu which
the entire population of a modern city arc
being tipped by the cosmic dustman down
a chute composed of a naked giantess stand-
ing on her head. In the field of sculpture
Mr. Pillig seems most at home. “Pan and
Nymph” is remarkably vigorous, but “The
Symphony of Life” is what will stick in the
visitor’s mind. Our first parents are shown
in a close embrace underneath a bridge.
Over the bridge pour at least 300 of their
descendants, which is as many as any sculp-
tor could be reasonably expected to include.
Man begins in savagery, mounts to a peak
of cultural development and then descends
into savagery again, until a fresh evolution-
ary cycle shall begin. The figures have an
individual existence without the mass effect
being sacrificed.
An unpretentious show of pictures by
Aileen Dent found a temporary home in the
Tudor lounge of the Victoria Palace in Mel-
bourne. The disadvantage of looking at
the pictures in a room dedicated to the
serving of tea is that the observer is obliged
to glare over the heads of dear old ladies
munching cream puffs (“that dreadful Mr.
Hogan, dear —did you hear what he wants to
do to the poor unemployed?”), and a shy
critic is apt to wonder whether it is he or the
old ladies who are most out of place. Miss
Dent’s portraits are too literal to be very
revealing, but in some of her landscapes she
has been sufficiently interested in problems
of light to forget what she is painting, and
the result is some pleasing vistas of misty
Yarra reaches with air in them.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Hard Times in the U.S.A.
It isn’t to the U.S.A. that the gold went
which Britain lost before it slid off the
standard. Between Sept. 20 and the end of
the following month the gold exports from
the U.S.A. totalled no less than 408 mil-
lion dollars, and another 408 million dollars
were transferred to foreign ownership and
left, earmarked for safe keeping, in the U.S.A.;
during the same period the imports were
only 86 million dollars. In addition to
this net loss of 730 million dollars, many
millions were withdrawn from banks and
hoarded, owing to the panicky feeling that
“anything might happen’’ even to Uncle Sam.
In the 12 months to the end of October
no fewer than 2200 banks suspended pay-
ment, most of them, of course, country banks,
and only about 200 of them had been able to
reopen by the end of the period. To stem
this tide it was realised that something
more even than the country’s system of
Central Reserve Banks was necessary, so the
great trading banks were invited to estab-
lish the National Credit Corporation. They
put up for the purpose a capital of 500
million dollars, the main object being to
advance against those bank securities which,
though good, were not in the category
which the Central Reserve Banks are per-
mitted by law to touch.
One of the principal causes of American
bank difficulties has been the shrinkage in
the market value of farm lands. In 1910
the total of farm mortgages in the U.S.A.
was 3600 million dollars; by 1928 it was
9500 millions. Land values have fallen 40 p.c.
below their peak, while the value of farm
products has fallen more than 50 p.c. These
shrinkages have left a large total of advances
entirely unsupported.
Meantime business profits in general have
suffered further heavy falls. Of 205 great
industrial corporations the net profits in
the first nine months of 1930 were 740 million
dollars; in the corresponding nine months
of 1931 they were 392 millions, a shrinkage
of 47 p.c. The average return had fallen
from 94 p.c. to under 5 p.c. In many of
the groups profit had almost entirely dis-
appeared : the 16 cos. in the iron and steel
group outside the U.S. Steel Corporation
showed an actual loss; and so did the
petroleum cos. Coal-mining cos. showed a
profit of 1.6 p.c., the great U.S. Steel Cor-
poration 1.1 p.c., non-ferrous mining cos.
0.9 p.c.; merchandising cos. 2.6 p.c., and
automobile cos. other than General Motors
2.6 p.c.; General Motors still managed to
show 13.4 p.c. as against 18.8 p.c. a year
earlier.
Trade Prospects in Asia
From Selangor, Federated Malay States:
Since England went off the gold standard prices
of most articles in this market have increased con-
siderably, especially those from California, Holland
and France. With its exchange in a very favorable
position for the exporter, Australia has a better
chance of capturing us than ever it had. Its goods,
especially tinned fruits, jams, pickles, meat, soups,
vegetables and fruit (particularly apples, oranges
and pears) would have a huge demand if they were
offered at a strictly reasonable price. At present in
the F.M.S. apples are 3d. each and oranges 34d. ; the
latter practically all American. But if Australia
wants to get this market it must put up its goods
more attractively and pack better. I have spent
22 years in this country and very rarely have seen
any Australian goods with a hope of competing
with American or English lines, because of the
clumsy or careless way in which they are presented.
Generally, the contents are second to none ; but that
will not overcome the initial fault. And (very
important), once a market is got, keep up supplies;
irregularity of quality and service is the bad fault
with Australian exporters.
Manufacturers and Their Opportunities
“Jackaburra”: I have just had to handle
a consignment of farm pumps received from
a southern factory. They are made on simi-
lar lines to an imported pump that enjoyed
a wide sale until tariff increases shut it out;
and, though I have no doubt, they will do
quite as good work as the imported line, their
appearance is depressing. They are finished
off with a coat of dull paint that hasn’t
dried properly and has got smudged and
knocked off, and they look second-hand. The
reply of the casual manufacturer would be
that the paint doesn’t last long, anyhow, and
that it doesn’t increase the efficiency of the
pump at all; but the retailer knows that a
nice finish goes a long way towards selling
any article. The buyer figures it out, often
unconsciously, that a manufacturer who
doesn’t bother to put a decent finish to his
goods is liable to be equally casual about the
parts that do matter; and if there happens to
be an opposition line possessing the finish
which the other lacks, nine times out of ten
the well-finished article gains the decision,
even at a somewhat higher price. In the
case under notice, the extra cost of painting
with a good red, glossy paint would not have
exceeded 6d. per pump. The casual cuss is
a great handicap and not easy to shift.
Often when retailers point out things for his
own benefit he thinks they are trying merely
to get lower prices. But the retailer’s first
consideration must always be to please his
customers as regards both price and quality,
and the failure of manufacturers to appreci-
ate this, and to concede that the retailer
knows better than he what the public wants,
contributed a great deal to the importing
orgy.
The Building Trades
“Bert the Carpenter”: There is no other
trade which shows such alternations of stag-
nation and prosperity as that of the building
artisan. At present a carpenter can wear
out his boots in a fruitless search for work;
yet a few years ago I have walked up to a
job and many a time have had the con-
tractor not only engage me on the spot, but
hire a taxi to fetch my tools so as not to
lose even an hour’s work.
A few years ago a contractor called at my
house to see if I wanted a job, and found
me working on a bedroom suite intended as a
wedding present for a friend. “My word!”
he exclaimed. “I hope you work up the
panelling on my job like you have tjiis
blackwood.” I retorted that when I last
worked for him he was continually coming
along to the joiners’ benches and complaining
about the time we were taking over our
work. He admitted this, but explained that
he had cut his price to get the job, and had
to, drive all hands at their top. And there,
you have in a nutshell the explanation of
much indifferent work. Give us the time
and we will do good work.
It is the desire to make hay while the
sun shines which makes the building artisan
stick out for the highest possible pay, for he
knows by bitter experience what a hard time
he will have when the trade falls slack again.
Stabilise the building trade ,and you'll get
better work and cheaper work.
The Empty North
“J. R. Le”: Re the development of the
country between Cooktown and Laura (Q.)
by private enterprise, there is another field
where it might do even more valuable work if
given a chance. That is the Barkly Tableland
(N.T.), by the construction of a railway
from a point opposite Vanderlin Island for
some 250 miles into the interior. The Barkly
Tablelands are capable of carrying three
million to five million sheep. If a co. were
given a grant, say, 20 miles wide on one
side of the railway, the land to be sold ait
the end of 30 years in suitable holdings, the
co. to be limited as to railway charges but
not as to profits, considerable employment
would be given in construction and more in
opening up the land by fencing, sinking of
bores, etc. It would increase the production
of wool by thousands of bales, some sort of
farming would slowly establish itself in the
coastal belt, and a town of eight or ten
thousand would rise at the seaport. Near
Vanderlin Island there is said to be an excel-
lent. anchorage, with a good site /for a town,
and a splendid water supply close at hand.
The scheme would tend to the settlement of a
part of Australia that is a menace while
unpeopled; and finally it should pay the
company handsomely, as there w T ould be few
difficult engineering jobs in construction, an
area the size of Victoria would be drained,
and operating costs would be low.
“Runa”: Maoriland is perturbed over the
goings-on of the exporters of Siberian
butter. Not only are the consignors copy-
ing the boxes in which the M.L. product is
usually shipped, they are completing the
imitation with a brand resembling M.L.’s
well-known mark, and topping it off with
what are evidently intended to be Maori
names. One Maorilander who watched a
shipment of 4000 cases of Ukrainian butter
being unloaded at a London wharf was stag-
gered at the completeness of the guileless
comrades’ fraud.
When the P. and O. branch-liner Balranald
put out from Melbourne the other day she
took more than 18 tons
of Vic.-made spaghetti
and macaroni with
her ; the shipment was
the first response to
an English order '"or
1,000.000 ilb. cartons.
Hancock’s, a Mel-
bourne co., is respons-
ible for launching this
new export trade.
That the Australian
product is of superior
quality is indicated in
one very definite man-
ner—Vic. Italians are
among tin' manufac-
turing firm’s best cus-
tomers. J. Bull im-
ports about 5000 tons
of spaghetti and maca-
roni annually, and
there are other over-
seas markets to be ex-
ploited.
* . *
For some years the
Americans have cut
meat into joints and
packed it in cartons
for sale at grocers'
stores. An attempt is
now to be made to
start a regular Aus-
tralian export trade
with meat packed in
tliis fashion. A plant
is being installed in
Sydney, to chill the
meat by a new pro-
cess which, it is said,
preserves all tin-
flavor. The meat will
be packed in cartons
from 41b. to 141 b. in
weight and shipped
direct to big British
retailers.
The Bulletin con-
tinues to receive ap-
peals from Austra-
lians and ex-Austra-
lians in Canada urging
this country to take
more advantage of the
tr e m endous feeling
which has been aroused
there in favor of
Empire trade. The
reciprocity agreement
between the two coun-
tries came into force
in August; but thus
far, they say, only
spasmodic efforts have
been made to push
Australian trade in
the Dominion. The
Canadian Government
has a Commissioner
in Australia (90
Queen -street, Mel-
bourne), who is ready
to help not only im-
porters of Canadian
goods but exporters of
Australian products.
Very few concerns
these days can equal
the record of the
Qnee n sland Golden
Casket. Receipts have
totalled nearly £8,000,000, and only £B2 has
been lost in bad debts —due to the default
of agents.
“Merriwa” : A neighbor has destroyed by
fire about 10 p.c. of his wool clip. This
represents the low grades, which at present
values will not meet the high costs of cartage,
rail freight and woolstore charges. Should
this destruction become general the esti-
mated increase of Australia’s wool clip will
be wiped out. I suggest that carriers, rail-
ways and wool stores take this wool, whack
the proceeds and undertake not to tax the
growers with any of their costs. Thus added
exports would be available.
»tj ;j- * *
In spite of a very recent sag in merino
values, due to the 5 p.c. fall in the exchange
rate and less Japanese buying, prices for
the season have been pretty good, taking all
things into account. To the end of Novem-
ber greasy averaged £ll Bs. 2d. per bale and
S.6d. per pound ; the scoured averages were
£l3 3s. 4d. and 14.2 d. per pound. The all-
round average was rather less than 2d. worse
than the figure for the 1929-30 season. Ex-
ports for the five months, totalled 500.260
bales worth £5,724.231. Britain was the best
buyer with i. 69,325 bales (£2.010,056),
Japan a good second with 115,408 bales
(£1,326,909). Clearances were well ahead
of those for the same period last year; empty
warehouses will be the rule by the end of
the season.
-j. ❖ '•>'
The English Courts have decided a ques-
tion of some importance to Australian
shippers. Westralian farmers had claimed
from the King line commission on a freight
charter. The line chartered the steamer to
the plaintiffs, freight being payable in cash
sterling on discharge in London; 5 p.c.
commission w r as to be paid to plaintiffs on
freight loaded. The question was whether
this commission was to be paid in Aus-
tralian money, as the defendants maintained,
or in British. The Judge in the lower court
found for the defendants, but the verdict
has been reversed by the Court of Appeal,
which upheld plaintiffs’ contention that, as
payment on delivery was at sterling rates,
the commission payment should correspond.
as a: a= *
Cotton-growers will be heartened by the
announcement that ,T. and P. Coats have
decided to set up a factory in Australia, the
necessary land having been secured near
Melbourne. According to the firm’s repre-
sentatives, however, the tests made of
Queensland cotton indicate that it is too
short for the finer grades of thread, though
that has not been the experience of other
manufacturers of cotton goods in Australia.
* * * %
The world is full of little-heard-of occu-
pations. One of these, carried on at River-
stone. near Sydney, is the breeding of zebus,
or Brahmin cattle, which are exported to
the South Sea Islands for working purposes
and to supply milk and meat. The zebu is
suited for this job, since he is practically
disease proof and will flourish in localities
where the- ordinary British breeds can’t
settle down. He is small, but makes first-
class meat.
* * * *
The 1931 forecast of the Queensland
Sugar Bureau estimates a crop of 3,942,578
tons of cane, wfith 563,000 tons of sugar.
This is 46,000 tons more than last year, arid
42,000 tons ahead of the record of 1928.
In the last 30 years the acreage has trebled;
but the yield is six times as great.
* * *
“F.P.”: The following extract from an
English letter may help to explain the revolt
against the friends of the dole at the elec-
tions in England, and against those mem-
bers of the community who claim the right to
loaf on their country :
The recent cut in the unemployment dole is very
hard on some men with families who are genuinely
seeking work, but there are thousands drawing it
who ought not to be. Women marry, sign on at a
labor exchange for some job which they know it is
impossible to obtain, and draw the dole without the
least intention of working again. There are thou-
sands of men who have reached 65 drawing 10s.
a week old-age pension and working full time as
well. It seems all wrong when there are so many
genuinely out of work.
To minimise the harmful effects of the dole
in Australia, every male person drawing it
should be obliged to work for it. Where
there is an unemployment tax, those paying
should be entitled to the equivalent in labor
by the unemployed. The necessity to work
for the dole might shift some of the impostors
off it.
❖ ❖ ❖
A transport innovation has been tried in
France —the fitting of railway carriages with
pneumatic tyres. Experiments have been
made so far only with converted motor-cars,
but they are encouraging. The, main trouble
is that the width of the running surface of
a steel rail is only 24in. and the surface has
an inward slope. Of course the rubber
industry is watching the proceedings eagerly.
* * * *
S. W. Hedger, supt. of the Vic. Institute
for the Blind, is up against the „same pro-
blem as other manufacturers. He has 200
workers and their families turning out goods
of all descriptions which everybody wants
but. nobody will buy. His factory in St.
Ivilda-road hands out £12,000 in wages
annually, and a good deal of the amount
came out of the sales of articles. Now _he
is faced with the alternative of destroying
thorn or storing them until w 7 e get ourselves
out of the muddle we are in. And either the
public will have to keep the workers in idle-
ness, which is even worse for the blind than
it is for the able-bodied man, or they will
have' to be turned out on the streets to beg.
THE CHRISTMAS PUDDING.
THE BOSS (to the new cook): “And make it a big one, Joe. These people are very hungry.”


The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON, .
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
A
CHOIC
CIGAR
D
1
EACH
Mellow and cool, Club Reil Cigars are especially adapted
to the Australian taste. Made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant
and flavorsome..and delightfully mild.
Obtainable from all Hotels and Tobacconists or
CRAIG AND AITREN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
a
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oaultieid,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
troni Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment*
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
FAIR ENOUGH.
“What do you think of lori’s fiance?”
“Oh, he was all right when I was engaged to him."
9/19/>qi\ 1 ,f an n X ?i ait l t 0 “ Bo P duc J k ”
z/lw/dl) vby all the bagmen hug the rail-
way lines in Queensland and risk life and
limb trying to steal rides on goods trains.
In the northern State relief rations for
single men (ss. per week) are issued on
Tuesdays only, and are never issued more
than once in one centre to the same appli-
cant. In many cases 160, or even more,
miles must be traversed within the week, an
impassible walking feat, week in and week
out, on main roads, let alone in the
waterless West. Colored ration cards are
issued, the color being changed each week.
Sometimes the police sergeant forgets what
colored card he should issue, and when, next
Tuesday, you take your pink card to another
sergeant in another town you get no rations.
If you arrive after 5 p.m. you will be
pointed out the regulation which .states that
rations must not be issued after that hour.
So most of the bagmen, preferring not to
risk the refusal of their weekly dole, endanger
their necks and steal railway rides from
centre to centre. Since the ss. lasts an aver-
age healthy male only two to three days, the
rest of the week must perforce be spent in
begging food, which isn’t practicable on tin;
back tracks, where the cocky is always
nearly as hungry as the bagman. Now that
riding on trains without paying comes under
the Vagrancy Act in Queensland, making
the offender liable to six months’ hard, there
is an exodus to N.S.W., where rations are
worth Bs. and travelling isn’t necessary.
%i ...
“8.C.” : West o’ Bourke we’ve had rain !
Rain in torrents! And in November!
This has brought a new problem to Dave,
who drew a block on the Darling in ’2l,
worked hard, lost all in a dry spell in ’26.
worked again and lost all in the drought of
’2B. Rain to Dave is Life. His verandah
bag is fitted with an enamel tray to catch
the drips, and he keeps the keys of his
tanks at the bank, in safe deposit. Each
morning Dave, Dave’s missus and the kids
use water —one quart—for their ablutions.
Then Dave throws in a lump’ of Government
"elearo,” strains off water from sediment.,
and it does for next time. Last week we
had four inches. After Dave’s three tanks
were full it went on raining—an inch fell
in twenty minutes. The water lay in a
muddy sheet as far as we could see. Dave
moodily watched the overflowing guttering,
tanks, drums and washtubs from the
verandah. Every now and then he dived out
with a petrol-tin and got water for his pot-
plants. Suddenly he grabbed an oilskin and
we saw him frantically digging a drain
into which the muddy water swirled. “Dave,”
wailed his missus; “watcher doin’, Dave?”
“Gor blime,” panted Dave between shovels-
ful, “I'm not goin’—ter let —this water go
ter waste. I’m runnin’ it —inter the cellar
—so’s I can salt it down!”
“Spare Walton”; A fish story fresh from
Queensland is to the effect that wdien two
abos. fishing on the Barrier Reef were attacked
by a shark, the latter seized the foot of one
in his mouth and released it with a few
scratches. It sounds much more like the
giant groper than the shark, which, if it ever
releases anything seized, leaves a much more
indelible sign manual than a scratch. Years
ago writer examined the famous Sunday of
Thursday Island, whose alleged escape from
THE VERY THING HE WANTED.
“Silly conshable! Shaid t’ me, ‘You cover shirt-front or you’ll be-hic held up, shir.”
Won’ cover shirt-front f’r any conshable. I WANT be held-hic up.”
a shark, which had taken his entire head
into its mouth, became w r orld-famous. The
marks on Sunday’s face, and shoulders were
certainly not made by the razor-edged teeth
of a shark. It would have to be a whopping
shark that could take the head and
shoulders of a grown man into its mouth, a
thing that would have been easy for any
big groper. There was no doubt in writer’s
mind, and in those of others who saw Sunday’s
wounds, that the groper, with his small irreg-
ular teeth was the aggressor. This big fish
has often been known to tackle humans, and
dress divers fear him far more than the
shark, not because of his carnivorous habits,
but because of his unquenchable curiosity,
which makes it impossible to get rid of him.
❖ * * #
“Plankton”: Certain species of jumping
spiders ( Attidce ) are distinguished by their
power of changing the color of tlieir eyes
(at least that of. the two largest of their
eight optics) at will. One member of . the
family, from up Surabaya way. can alter
the color of its eyes from dark-brown to
bright grass-green and works the trick at
short intervals.
❖ t- * He
“Rata” : A queer fish tale comes from Fiji.
A party of three whites were outside the reef
at Suva deep-sea .fishing when one of them
landed an oga—otherwise the big sea pike
known as barracouda, not to be confused
with the barracouta of colder waters. The
brute was bumped on the head and thrown
into the bottom of the boat, when
one of the trio stepped over it to
gaff another that was being brought
alongside. As he did, the first fish
jumped at him and. grabbing his bare
foot in its crocodile-like jaw, badly
gashed it, taking off the big toe. In
all tropic waters, from the West
Indies to the Western Pacific, the six-foot-
long pirate with the rip-saw dentures is
more dreaded by white men and black who
know his proclivities than any shark. Ilis
favorite attack on a swimmer is disembowel-
ment, which is performed with one slash of
his murderous jaws.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
“Hamer” : “Never ’eard about Dan Blog-
gins?” said the man who always has a
story to tell when he is feeling thirsty.
“Well, now, that shows ’ow quickly things
is forgotten! Bloggins useter breed giant
poultry that busted all the records in the
poultry shows, an’ was finally ruled out be
the judges. They said they was in the
emu class, not poultry, properly speakin’.
But Dan wasn’t satisfied ; some blokes never
are. ’E fixed a magnerfyin’-glass up in
front of the place where the giant ’ens laid
their eggs, an’ one of the giant eggs
t’other side of it, so as the ’en, as it sat
on the nest, was lookin’ at an egg that
seemed as big as an ’ouse. ’ls idea was
ter rouse the ambitions of them ’ens; an’
’e succeeded! The eggs got bigger an’
bigger, an’ the ’ens an’ roosters ’atched
from ’em got bigger an’ bigger, an’ at the
end of the line, as it were, was a rooster
which was as big as a moa when it was
’atched, an’ then started growin’ rapid. Mrs.
Bloggins an’ the family got alarmed at
the big thing struttin’ round the place,
towerin’ over the ’ouse, the more so as
the rooster was always ’ungry, an’ dawgs
an’ cats an’ sheep started ter disappear
mysterious like. Mrs. Bloggins got finally
fed up the night the rooster decided that
the roof of the ’ouse was a good place ter
roost, an’ it collapsed under ’is weight. In
the rooins, Mrs. Bloggins started ter git
the family tergether ter depart, but she
. couldn’t find ’er maiden sister, Tlda, ’oo
lived with them, anywhere. In the mornin’
the rooster looked sick, an’ when ’e started
ter cough up ’airpins an’ suddenly spat out
a set of false teeth it was plain, ter see
what ’ad ’appened. With a screech Mrs.
Bloggins ’eaved ’erself an’ the fam’ly on
the waggonette; an’ .she didn’t go any
slower because the rooster, which was a
inquisitive bird, follered the vehicle along
the road. At the inquest on Tlda Dan
brought the bird erlong ’orl done up with
crepe an’ stuff, but the rooster was peckish
an’ tried ter swaller the coroner’s clerk.
It broke up the court, an’ as threats was
bein’ made about lynching Dan, ’e leaped on
’is’orse and rode orf as ’ard as ’e could go,
with the rooster follerin’ ’im, an’ ’e was
50 miles away before ’e' stopped. ’E sold
the rooster to a bloke be the name of
Skinner, ’oo ’ad the catering contrack fer
the Cow Flat Agricultural Show. Two
’undred people dined on that rooster. It
was only then they ’eard about Tlda. which
turned ’em queer in the insidh,. and then filled
’em with thoughts of murder. Dan Bloggins
’eard they were cornin’ an’ disappeared, an'
’e ain’t been seen since.”
“Yarri”: Besides gold and other minerals
there are large deposits of borax in Central
Australia. The railway is not far off, but the
.charge for carriage is too heavy to make the
fields profitable to work. As the trains that
approach that part are seldom heavily laden,
except when transporting stock, it wouldn’t
hurt to carry the stuff free. After all, the
main object of the railway is to “develop
the interior,” and this particular avenue of
development might start a new industry.
GOD BLESS US ALU!
[FOR TH E BULLETIN.]
Some murmur “Cheerio!” or “Luck,” before
they drain the glass that brims,
And in your life you’ve doubtless heard a
lot of other synonyms
For that persistent formula that’s ever on
a thousand lips,
The benediction over beer, the pithy grace
preceding nips.
But over all the rolling years the most
arresting I recall,
And least conventional, perhaps, was just
a plain “God Bless Us All!”
You’d guess ’twas a religious bloke —some
cleric, say, whose dash was done—
That over drinks meandered back to that
familiar benison.
The fact remains he wms a lag—-“old hand”
the euphemistic phrase—
Who made no bones at dating back to West
Australia’s convict days.
He’d served his time and purged his crime ;
fallen, . and risen from his fall;
Lived down his past and prospered, too.
whose slogan was “God Bless Us All !”
He’d thriven at his trade —a smith's —and
there were many who could tell
Tales of his grit and kindliness, and few
who didn’t like him well.
And whensoe’er the liquor flowed, were he
or someone else the host,
As each successive shout went round he
never varied in his toast.
I see the rows of bottles still, the garish
placards on the wall,
And hear the quavering orison he’d made his
own: “God Bless Us All!”
I wonder did his mind go back to times and
scenes so grey and grim
That there could never be an end of fer-
vent thankfulness for him;
Or if he thought what he besought for many
a cheery coterie
Was needed just as much if those who drank
with him were bond or free.
Ah, well, it matters little now. And to his
memory I scrawl
The pious hope he voiced so oft: “God Bless
Us All! God Bless Us All!”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


BRITAIN —MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Roinai.ee and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—B} hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
QUALCAST” lawn mowers
Model “H” MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SUITABLE FOR ALL LAWNS
GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS
SPARE PARTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Prices in Capital Cities and principal
Seaport Towns.
12in. 14in.
Each. Each.
Bronze bearings 50/- 537-
Ball bearings 57/6 59/6
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING
HARDWARE STORES.
ďf
d
ď
f
d
ď
Qualcnst. (Australia) Pty.. Ltd.,
West Footscray, W. 12, Melbourne.
IT IS SO EASY
Just a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken.
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money, but since a sum so small as 1/- will be accepted
as the first deposit, hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and start your shillings to working
for you.
Cbmmoiiwcaltl) Savings JBankof Hustralia
C Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
“W.1.M.” : According to a Service Depart-
ment answer (B. 18/11/’3l), the first tele-
phone conversation took place in Australia
in 1878. M.-L. experimented with telephones
a year earlier. I was telegraphist at Ivaiapoi
(Tom Bavin’s birthplace) in the ’seventies,
and about the middle of 1877 Telegraph-
Inspector Meddings made two telephone-
transmitter receivers—the cases were turned
iff Ivaiapoi by a man named Winterbottom
—and held a conversation with Addington
12 miles away. Tommy Duffy, the tele-
graphist there, and old Cronin, the Adding-
ton .S;M., took part in the experiment. At
Ivaiapoi the speakers were Mr. and Mrs.
Meddings, Johnson, the postmaster, and my-
self. The telephones, of course, were con-
nected with the telegraph line.
❖ $
“Mul go*; A timber that has suffered
heavily from the axe and firestiek is beef-
wood. Far inland it is used for fences and
sheqpyards, though it is one of the hand-
somest furniture woods in the country. Its
appearance when cut resembles beefsteak,
from which it gets its name. It grows well
in the dry regions west of the Darling River,
and in many parts of Queensland, where
trees attain a diameter of 2ft. and a height
of 90ft. Tire wood, which is easily worked,
is very durable —some say as durable as
ironbark. Pegs used by surveyors on a line
between Charleville and Eromanga (Q.),
WASTE, SHE CALLED I'T
CITY GIRL (to squatter’s son): “Why don’t you drive the poor things to shelter some-
where? All their wool will shrink in this rain.”
where tlie trees were once plentiful, were
fottiid to be sound after being in the ground
for 80 years. In addition to the novelty
of the grain and figuring, the wood takes a
beautiful polish, and the foliage is eaten by
cavtle and sheep. Here and there in the
back country one sees attractive pieces of
beefwood furniture made by bush carpenters.
Scrub beefwood, which has been • destroyed
wholesale in the coastal regions of N.fe.W .
and Queensland, is just as useful, though
not as durable for outside purposes as the
other. It make beautiful flooring.
“C. Coral”: “Yes,” remarked Jimmy Susu.
“this good time for turtle now; this mouth
you look turtle everywhere, he float on top
water all same log. We only catch that
woman turtle for kai-kai; no catch
man turtle. But man got to look
out when he go for catch turtle.
Last week me and some ’nother
man we take dinghy and go look
round for turtle. Soon we see some
he float; we go close to. Them
turtle he no hear we. Then boy
he jump over and make fast hook
in hand belong that woman turtle
and we start haul in rope. That
turtle he dive down now, go under-
neath. We pull, pull—he can't
come. What’s matter? He Come
fast 'long stone underneath, we
think. One boy he start for dive
down and find out, then that line
he start slack little bit and we
haul that turtle up. We pull, pull
—he close to dinghy now ;we just
getting ready for catch hold and
hoist him inside and one boy he
sing out. Then somet’ing come
round quick—swish ! He hit side
belong dinghy and go over end.
We all fall down inside quick—
we fright like hell! Yes ! One
alligator he been catch that turtle
when he go down and hang on him
with his arm; he don’t let go all
time, and we been haul them two
fella up! Close up we all capsize,
and that alligator he got all we.
No! We no bother for haul that
turtle inside —we cut line and say ‘Thank
you!' along that alligator. What I tell you?
Man he must look out proper good when he
go for catch turtle.”
“E.S.” : Binghi has no encomiums for the
spur-winged plover or the noisy miner (gar-
rulous honeyeater), though for traditional
reasons he doesn’t harm them. The latter
is the watchbird of the forests; all tin-
furred and feathered tribes become atten-
tive when it shouts, “Look out.” Many
a kangaroo it has .saved from spear and
rifle. The plover is the watchbird of the
marshes, whose alarm notes all the water-
fowl know. They rest or sleep in security
while the plovers are near and quiet, but tlie
instant they hear the warning cries they
raise their heads and look about. There
are other alarm birds in scrub and forest, but
these two stickybeaks are special nuisances
to the black hunter when he, is stalking
ducks or kangaroos. “All same lubra.” he
says. “Can’t mind ’em own business.”
❖ * ❖ ❖
“W.M.8.”; Buffalo flies travel in dense
swarms like bees. They settle in myriads
behind the ears and at the base of the horns
of a beast and remain there indefinitely. I saw
recently cattle whose hornbutts, eyes and
back of the poll were simply a moving rest-
less mass of insects. Under such conditions
cattle wander hopelessly for miles, shaking
their heads and rubbing them against any-
SAVED HIM A WORLD OF TROUBLE.
BOSS; “Look here, things are getting slack. I'll have to put the screw on a hit.”
CLERK : “By jove, sir — that’s jolly good of you. I wanted a rise, sir, but was too jolly
shy to ask for it.”
thing handy. The scratching causes greyish-
white scabs which are a continued source of
irritation. What would happen should this
pest spread to the moister climate of
Eastern Australia, as it threatens to. isn’t
cheerful to think about.
“Shikari”: When a menagerie animai
escapes from custody and takes to the wide
open spaces it usually longs after a while
for the security and regular
meals of its comfortable cage.
Not so Cissie, a lady elephant,
w T ho recently w-ent. for a walk-
about from Ashton’s circus at
Callendoon. in south-west
Queensland, and had a high
old time living on the country
until she was captured after
a glorious 11 days at the end
of a tortuous pursuit, in which
she covered some, hundreds of
miles. The lady easily out-
distanced the bush horses when
in top gear, and lived on the
fat of the land, gathering in
lucerne and maize crops, not
to mention young tobacco
plantations. What she did to
the farm and station fences
during her stroll was a sin.
The countryside is repairing
the wreckage, and the many
bushmen w T lio, having sud-
denly encountered the appari-
tion in the wilderness, fled
at full gallop to the nearest
township to take the pledge,
are realising that they acted
precipitately.
“Melcombe”: The wander-
ings of Cissie, the elephant,
were responsible for at least
one delectable incident. Her
owners requisitioned the
Police Department for the ser-
vices of a black-tracker. Much
of the country over which the
escapee was pursued was
boggy with recent rains, and
here the footprints of the flee-
ing mammoth were calculated
to put a Somme sliellhole to
the blush. Even on dry ground
a blind man could have fol-
lowed the fugitive’s progress
with his fingers, and for those
with eyes the trail of broken
scrub, crashed fences and uprooted crops
told a tale that even a politician couldn’t
have denied.
* * *
“Gumblegubbin” : Among the great variety
of birds in the bush, exhibiting a range of
nests from the most primitive to the most
elaborate and artistic, only five are mud-
builders or masons —the house swallow, tin-
bottle swallow (or fairy martin), the magpie
lark (commonly known as peewee and,
wrongly, peewit), the white-winged chough
and the apostle-bird (or grey jumper). The
bottle swallow, which i.s also called retort
swallow, from the shape of its mud house,
builds in companies, sometimes two or three
dozen nests being grouped together, one
against another —like the cells of a giant
hornet. Favorite sites are under culverts
and in old tunnels. The chough, alias scrub
magpie and Slim Jim, which is often con-
fused with the pied bell-magpies, nests in
a tree, and may build for several seasons on
fop of old foundations, till the nursery is a
huge pile of mud. The magpie-lark makes
the neatest nest of all, a cup-shaped recep-
tacle that is placed on top of a horizontal
limb, slender and in an exposed position ; and
it sticks there in spite of heavy rain and
wind. The apostle-birds, which associate in
companies of abont a dozen, choose a similar
site, but make bigger and deeper nests.
Cheerful company are these birds, nick-
named grey jumpers and hopping jacks from
their restless hopping and jumping about on
the ground. About the only time they are
still is when they are hatching or sleeping.
* * * *
“Dimon”: The rat-kangaroo, commonly
called kangaroo-rat, was responsible for
the starting of a great bush-fire on the
Richmond River (N.S.W.). The nocturnal
hopper sleeps by day in a dome-shaped grass
nest the shape of it.s own body, and just
large enough to envelop it. Often it will
lie there until a foot kicks against the
nest; then its spring from cover is as
startling as the sudden rise of a quail. On
a hot day the new hand at Bayley’s Camp,
on Myrtle Creek, was treading cautiously
through tall, dry grass after a hawk, and
holding a double-barrelled gun ready in both
hands, when a palpoo leaped from under his
feet. Percy’s leap fired both barrels, and
before he had half-recovered from his fright
the grass was ablaze. It took a week, with
the strenuous efforts of squads of men, to
put it out.
“Mako’’: The perversity of things! One
of the rarest of Maoriland birds is the
stitch-bird. A distinguished ornithologist, visit-
ing the Dominion some years ago, obtained
permission to land on the Tittle Barrier,
near Auckland, and after a week as the
guest of the custodian he had observed all
the rare birds on the island but the elusive
stitch-bird. .It came to his last day on the
island. He went off to the bush early, and
had just vanished when a stitch-bird arrived
at tlie homestead and alighted in the garden.
All day its melancholy little call of “Steeeli!
Steech!” was heard round the house, but
no amount of calling and seeking brought
the birdman back to view' the wonder. It
was dusk when he was observed coming
home, and as he walked, tired and disap-
pointed down the hill, a small bird flew over
his head toward the forest, the last stitch-
bird seen by anyone for many moons.
THE ROADS OF PICARDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The long, straight roads of Picardy, they
run uphill and down ;
They go their stern, unyielding way through
many a tiny town ;
They scorn the poor, mean winding lanes
that wander to and fro;
The long, straight roads of Picardy know
where they wish to go.
Each long, straight road in Picardy goes
forward to its goal,
And we, who thought that we could see
life steadily and whole,
Trod the hard roads of Picardy, and, simple
that we were,
Deemed that our goal lay straight ahead,
beyond the skyline there.
The long, straight roads of Picardy, they
lie in dust and mire.
They, never knew our agony, our dreams,
our foiled desire.
Beneath their shading trees they sleep the
centuries away,
Heedless of those who thought that life
could run as straight as they.
w:a.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
;W
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sidney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Mauager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Renrut Quadruple is the most efficient hand-pump o 1
the market. It is the result of over 30 years’ experience
in pneumatic engineering.
This remarkable pump works on a quadruple compression
principle, and although smaller in diameter than many other
pumps it delivers far more air per stroke —with the
minimum of effort.
RENRUT QUADRUPLE
Supplied with Push-on Connector.
Price, 60/- (With gauge, 5/- extra.)
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & URO., LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
/
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex.
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
SMOKE-OH!
NOSTALGIA.
“Comrade Sehelley, while claiming to be a patri-
otic German, says his name should be spelt ‘Shelly.’ ’
It’s oh for the days of long ago
When the lager beer was in;
And Robertson Smith, of Ultimo,
Was Hermann Schmidt, of Berlin!
A sad heart turns to the steppes of Urg
Where Comrade Brown was bred,
And lived (as Feodor Katrinburg)
Till his politics got so red
The Soviet sent him across the seas
With Johnson {ne Itchikobb),
And Angus McPherson, the Siamese,
' And Paddy Malone, of Ob.
Yet still their thoughts to the old lands flee.
Where they played their Bolshie games
Ere ever they joined the A.L.P.
And had to alter their names.
*
Premier Lang says it was a “World” wind
campaign.
* *
It’s known as the CommunhLssed party at
King’s Cross.
* *
“It is impossible to avoid noticing that the
spirit of revelry has been delayed this year.”
—Sydney hotelkeeper.
As a result, however, Christmas will find
us with our good spirits all bottled up.
* *
HOPE FOR THE THEATRE.
“Hollywood is such a whale for literal accuracy
that it has huge staffs of nitwits looking up ency-
clopaedias and consulting fashion authorities before
it ventures on a masterpiece.” —Complaint by “M.G.S.”
“Howzit, Baby?”
“Rotten. I bin to Fox-Parawyn’s ‘Old
England.’ ”
“I .seen the bum show. Fancy having a
butler as don’t trip over the mat every time
he comes in !”
“Don’t it burn yer up? An’ not satis-
fied with that, them apes at Hollywood make
the English country-house mob go hunting
in the winter. Affectation, I call it. Sum-
mer was good enough for the silents.”
“Yep, an’ none of the earls don’t wear
their Coronation robes at breakfast, an’
BRIEFLY EXPLAINED.
“Why did you leave your last place,
Matilde?”
“Because mistress thought I didn’t know it,
ma’am!”
when the Prince of Wales calls he ain’t got
his crown on”
“They pull a worse one than any of
them, Baby; I mean where the heroine says
we didn’t win the war.”
“Well, I’m finished with them dirty
Hollywood tramps. Lookin’ up encyclo-
paedias is all they’re good for. Lessee if we
can’t find a stage show, an’ get the kinder
dope we’re used to.”
* *
Is this man Gandhi a Hindoo or a hoodoo?
* *
“A conspiracy was revealed, showing that the
slaughtermen had agreed not to handle any of the
animals.”
Another case of the plot calliug the cattle
black.
SURRY HILLS S’AMUSE.
To say farewell to “Snow” Stiletto, who
made a last-minute decision to rejoin friends
in Melbourne this week, a function was
arranged at the corner of Bourke-street. As
the guest of honor did not turn up a sur-
prise visit was paid to his King’s Cross
pied-d-terre. Several callers, and a stranger
who was listening at a political meeting out-
side, were afterwards treated at the ever-
elficient St. Vincent’s Hospital. “Snow”
used one of the sawn-off shotguns that have
became “all the go” since the arrival of the
N.S.W. Pistols Act,
So that this year’s Christmas party of the
Undetected sub-branch of the Habitual
Criminals’ League of N.S.W. may be a great
success petty larcenists who have so far
escaped conviction are asked to communicate
with the hon. sec., Alderman Boodle. Under
Rule 10, as recently amended, ladies and
gents, who have been released under the
First Offenders Act are eligible for election
to the sub-branch.
Off to spend a holiday with his father at
Long Bay, “Thug” Sniffles (who till he came
south from sunny Brisbane was “Snifter”
Mulligan) will be sorely missed at parties
round the Cross. As against which fewer
things will be missed by the guests. Mulligan
pirc, an inveterate seasider. is one of the
best-known patrons of the Bay’s most
imposing residential.
A number of perfect ladies were present at
the annual meeting of the Royal Queen
Pansy Uplift Association, which has for its
object the financing of fair uplifters in con-
flict with a pitiless world. A lecture on “The
Use of Prams at Bargain Counters” was
much appreciated by those present. The
president, Mrs. Pinch, was in the chair, and
the annual report and balance-sheet showed
that a total of 17,430 articles had been
removed by members in the course of the
financial vear.
¥ *
PORTENTS.
The light on stacks of bottles smiles:
The whisky-cases stand in piles;
There’s rum and gin — whate’er v:e ask,
The good stuff’s ready, case and cask,
Lager and stout, champagne and beer —-
Tlid.season of good swill draws near!
TOUCH AND GO.
As the speech neared its concluding stages,
the chairman was palpably restless. The
audience, too, appeared to notice the serious
oratorical defect
which had made him
uneasy, and looks of
wonderment were
directed at the
speaker.
With pleasing re-
gularity the usual
phrases had fallen
from the candidate’s
lips; but the great-
est, the most appeal-
ing of them all had
not been uttered. A
hurried whisper, a re-
assuring nod and the
face sud-
denly lit with an
ecstatic smile as he
turned again to the
expectant sea of up-
turned faces: —
“And in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen,
let me state that I place myself unreservedly
in the hands of my masters, the electors, who
will. I am sure, overwhelmingly record their
confidence in one whose sole thought is the
welfare of his constituents, and the protec-
tion of that great democracy which is the
rightful heritage of every citizen in this
great and glorious Commonwealth which we
have the inestimable privilege to inhabit.”
# *
“Mr. Field’s counsel said his client had had to
provide £2OO a week ever since the divorce case
started.”
And they say the woman pays!
* Y-
Lang believes that where there’s a will
there’s a weigh-out.
Gandhi says he didn’t get a square go at
the Round-table Conference.
PALPITATIONS.
Gwenda is loved and lovely,
All the admiring men
Try to coo, turtle-dove-ly
When they’re around with Gwen.
In their endeavors to win her
They use every lover’s art,
But only her cigs. and the wine she sivigs
Have ever touched Gwenda’s heart.
* *
Scullin thinks the election was a Beasley
shame.
THE RECORD-BREAKER
Dense crowds surged round his house.
The “D.T.” wrote a leading article about
him, and A. M. Poolcy compared him to
Gandhi, the ex-King of Spain and the Lang
plan. “Smith’s” published an exposure, for
which £25,000 damages were claimed, and
Dean Talbot made his case the text of a dis-
course in the Domain. For several days
the public took more interest in him than
in the picturesque boy-murderer of Coogee,
who had poisoned his grandmother. In short,
he was, as the “Sun” brightly put it, “the
cynosure of every eye.” And no wonder.
Winner of a £5OOO prize in a Whiddon
sweep, he hadn’t told a single newspaper
that the cash would make a welcome Christ-
mas box as he and his had been on the dole
for months.
EXPERIENCE TEACHES.
“I’ve only one objection to a long kiss.”
“What’s that?”
“The longer it is the less long enough it
gets.”
“Americans, on seeing our native bears, invariably
say, ‘Aren’t they just too cute!’”
And they have some fairly cute bears in
Wall-street themselves.
!{.
“Among Australia’s unemployed are some of the
best workmen in the world.”
Surely a country like this can find work
for its ideal hands to do.
* *
“Many men are wearing patched trousers to-day
who never did before.”— “Sun.”
And that’s why many politicians lost their
seats last Saturday.
* *
“Never interfere between lovers .” —Dorothy Dix.
Sound advice. They prefer to paddle their
own canoodles.
* *
Will 1932 be another Lop Year?
* H-
REPORTERS’ ERRORS.
Ye Banks and Brays
Mr. Tom Bavin, wearied by electioneering,
packed up rod, line and flies yesterday, and
hied him to Khancoban’s banks. His fidus
Achates Mr. Jack Lang, whose voice is also
as badly in need of a rest as are his sup-
porters’ ears, shared the Bavin midget. Mr.
Lang packed up rod, lines and dynamite.
The methods of the two inseparables differ,
Mr. Bavin casting his flies over, Mr. Lang
his dynamite at, the banks.
Off the Milk Standard
Rev. R. B. Hammond was host at a cheery
cocktail party at Hammond’s Hotel last
night. Dr. Arthur, who officiated as chief
mixologist, said he had gone right off milk.
{Cheers.) Since the present Government
came in he had grown to hate the sound of
the word. H'is bank account had been
milked dry.
A Fair Publicity-hater
Mrs. “Bill” Limelight, the prominent
press hostess, was seen bolting madly from
a writer of Social notes in her exquisite
Shantung frock, with lilac revers and price-
less old Honiton applique taken from a
bridal dress worn by “Bill” Limelight’s
grandmother, and* specially imported beret,
worn with shoes by Verdommft. Asked to
explain her unusual conduct she said that
she didn’t want newspaper readers to be
told about her exquisite Shantung frock,
with lilac revers and priceless old Honiton
applique taken from a bridal dress worn by
“Bill” Limelight’s grandmother, and speci-
ally imported beret, worn with shoes by
Verdommft.
“Thousands of persons on the footpaths watched
Archbishop Head laying the top stone at the summit
of the Moorhouse spire at St. Paul s jCathed^.^
It’s good to know that so many people’s
business is
INTELLIGENCE TEST.
(1) As senior counsel in a cause celebie
you have referred to your client as a
society beauty, whose matchless pulchri-
tude and indubitable charm, and eminence
of mind and character, are famed in the gilded
and exclusive saloons of three continents.
Would you consider it tactful to refer
to her coming-out dance at the Butchers
Picnic in 1888? .
(2) The Judge has persuaded the parties,
one of whom is your client to settle.
Submit, in the vernacular, your private
opinion of his Honor.
(3) You have got a brief from a wealthy
client. The case could be finished in a
week.
Give a reason (the reason) why it should
last three months.
(4) A witness has stated, under cross-
examination, that respondent wore a mauve
bathing costume. The lady herself has said
it was a midnight beige.
Would it he relevant to quote nine pages
from Blohh on Torts? If irrevelant, give
reasons why you should still quote your
authorities.
(5) Your refresher is 50 guineas per
diem; your overdraft, £l4OO 6s. Bd. In your
opinion, opposing counsel is unnecessarily
wasting time arguing matter not germane
to the subject.
Outline your modus operandi in protest-
ing against this wilful squandering of your
client’s money and your valuable time.
Thesis.
Discuss, in not more than 10,000 words
and without the use of abusive language, the
desirability of cheap justice.
* *
“In Melbourne, funds are being raised for a
monument to Barak, the last chief of the Yarra-
yarra tribe.”
Aren’t the Barakers of the M.C.G.
enough ?
“The rising flood of public opinion will force
Lang to the country.”— T. R. Bavin.
The trouble is Lang always damns public
opinion.
* *
“Never, even foi* a joke, allow a mere acquaint-
ance to kiss you. It looks forward.” — Dorothy Dix.
But many a man-acquaintance looks for-
ward to meeting a girl who looks forward.
CLOUDLESS SKY.
“Marriage,” philosophised the vice-presi-
dent of the Royal Hotel Jolly Optimists’
Club, “is a queer business at best. This,
however, may be postulated (hie) with sher-
tain —pardon—certainty : the majority of ill-
starred alliances are undoubtedly caused
through lack of understanding between the
parties. Personally, I am happy in my
matrimonial affairs; my wife understands
that I earn a fiver a week (hie) and I
actually draw a tenner.”
????
GLADYS : “Does she intend marrying the
other man in the case if her husband
gets his divorce?”
BERTL: “She hasn’t made up his mind yet.”
RUDE OR NOTHING.
“The Lang regime may yet result in a form of
civil war.”
If ft quite upon the cards that strife
May start in New South any minute;
But CIVIL war? Not on your life!
It won’t he that if Lang is in it!


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A Ballarat publican has been fined £5 for
delaying admission to the police on Sunday.
One of the officers deposed that there was
“no sign of drink about, but a strong smell
of it.” Which recalls a story of a Colling-
wood constable “bashed” by larrikins and
taken to hospital for repairs. A brother con-
stable asked an attendant how the injured
man was getting on. “He’s doin’ very
well,” was the reply, “but he’s entoirely
shpoilt for the Sunday thradin’ work.”
“How’s that?” inquired the other. “Faix,
the blaggards have knocked all the shmelliri’
power out av the nose av him for good,”
answered the attendant.
“Scrip”: Vincent Smugg, of Ponsonby
House. Yanuka (S.A.), and Mrs. Vin-
cent Smugg were at loggerheads, after 15
years of domestic tranquillity. The cause
was understood to be a pretty parlormaid.
Charles Muggins, a burglar, had his pro-
fessional eyes on Ponsonby House. Having
obtained, like a prudent general, a plan
of the interior fortifications, he selected as
his point of assault a first-floor window —
one of two windows that belonged to (1)
a lumber-room and (2) the housemaid’s bed-
room. Muggins naturally preferred the
lumber-room. Muggins mounted his ladder,
slipped the window-catch, raised the sash
and climbed in, dark-lantern (shut) in hand.
Suddenly he felt himself seized by the
collar and violently shaken, while a female
voice screeched: “Oh, you old brute! I
guessed this! You hypocrite!” Muggins,
petrified with dismay a/t this unexpected
variation of the programme, dropped the
dark-lantern in his struggle to slew round
and get away. The lantern-shutter slid back
and the lantern gleamed its own commen-
tary on the scene. Then Mrs. Smugg let
go and shrieked, “Help ! Murder! Burglars .
Fire!” But Mr. Muggins was 300 yards
away. Mrs. Smugg repents now, with wor-
shipping humility, and says she can never
forgive herself for having misjudged Mr.
Smugg. Smugg is condescendingly forgiving.
The pretty parlormaid smiles and says noth-
ing, but takes with simple _ alacrity all the
expiatory gifts which her mistress gives her.
She alsp. as usual, takes gifts from Mr.
Vincent Smugg.
Justice in the Punjab, British India, is
administered in a curious fashion. The
occupants of the gaols are mostly old men' —
very old men, as a rule, and utterly past
work. When a crime is committed and there
is strong evidence against some man or
woman who is still of working age, the
accused’s oldest and most helpless relative
always comes forward and pleads guilty, and
all the rest of. the family and the neighbors
give corroborative evidence. The idea of let-
ting a breadwinner go to gaol while there is
a bedridden grandfather who can go there
instead, and be fed at Government expense, is
such obvious waste that the Punjabi never
dreams of allowing it. A few years ago a
young woman was charged, on good evidence,
with infanticide, but a venerable harridan
belonging to the family promptly assumed
the whole responsibility of the infant, and
her confession was backed up by such a mass
of evidence that the Court lost its head and
sent her up for the rest of her life. On
another occasion, when a sturdy native was
nearly convicted of murder and robbery, his
grandfather, who was paralysed in both arms,
was assisted into court and solemnly pleaded
guilty. This time the Law objected, but
half the neighborhood swore to having seen
him commit the crime, and it was universally
attested that the old man had recovered the
use of his arms for an hour or two and had
perpetrated the murder in the interval, so
there was nothing for it but to send him to
gaol with the rest of the cripples.—[7/4/’94.]
Kerr, M.P., of N.Z., is a burly, carthorse-
looking man with lots of commonsense, lots
of money, and but little education. The other
day a vote of £l5O for the introduction of
the chamois was under consideration, when
up jumped Kerr and protested solemnly
against the importation of any more pests
into the suffering qounltry. There were
already, he remarked, the stoats and the
weasels and the sparrows, and now they pro-
posed to get the “shammies.” What were
“shammies,” anyhow? A brother member
chipped in with the information that the
chamois was a kind of goat, and Kerr pro-
ceeded to remark that they might be goats
and then they mightn’t, and he had been
reliably informed that the “shammy” was a
cross between the goat and the pig, and
bred scab, and they didn’t want more scab on
the Wairau. With this, Mr. Dick Turnbull,
of Timaru, who dearly loves a joke, re-
marked : “If the hon. gentleman will wait a
minute I’ll send to the library for a book
by Samuel Clements, which gives a descrip-
tion of the animal and its habits.” The
House by this time was in hysterics, but it
nearly went “off its onion” when poor Kerr
began solemnly to read about the fi shammy”
from “The Tramp Abroad”—the animals
which ran about people’s clothes and were
no bigger than a mustard seed. Kerr began
to “tumble,” and then there arose to Heaven a
shriek of laughter which has nbt been equalled
in that grave assemblage since Grey and Sed-
don played at tug-of-war for Joyce's vote.
[3/8/’S9.]
Two years ago a Maoriland man received
a legacy of £lO,OOO. He promptly gave up
work/ and in the course of 19 months of
consistent drinking and riot he disposed of
all his fortune, and then he returned quite
cheerfully to the hard, unremunerative occu-
pation of gum-digging. H’e never expressed
any regret for his vanished pile—in fact,
he seemed rather glad that it was gone. A
few weeks ago, however, another relative
died and left him £BOOO more, and then for
the first time the gum-digger gave way to
emotion and cursed comprehensively. "It’s
just like my luck,” he said indignantly;
“it’ll take me 15 months to drink that lot.
It’s enough to make a fellow wish he’d never
been born.”
One of the most adventurous South Sea
traders, the taciturn • Captain Donald
Macleod, is dead. Macleod was, probably,
the best-known —and in some quarters, the
best-hated —man in the Western Pacific.
With the natives liis influence was extra-
ordinary, and but for him the F'rench New
Hebrides Co., which till lately was practi-
cally Donald Macleod himself, would never
have acquired its present local prestige. The
old man’s undeviating support of French v.
British interests aroused the bitterest hos-
tility against him, particularly from the
missionaries, who many years ago tried to
have him deported from the group, and
Captain (now Admiral) Markham, a blus-
tering naval officer, once visited the New
Hebrides to seize the famous old trader for
alleged blackbirding in his equally famous
schooner, the Donald Maclean. Hearing
that charges had been made in the_ Commons
against him, and that a man-o’-war was
after him, the old man, in his quiet, sombre
way, went aboard and, to the speechless
indignation of the missionaries, returned to
his vessel again without having been either
hanged or shot. His escapes from death in
his earlier South Sea career were many
and narrow. Once, while taking some trade
out of a box amongst a crowd of natives, he
just raised his hand in time to save his
skull being cloven by a tomahawk, and came
off with the loss of one finger. Although
he had another tomahawk buried in his
shoulder, he got his boat’s crew away in
safety. With the natives, in after years,
the name of “Maklau” was something to
conjure with. He accumulated a consider-
able fortune, but lived hard and never let
anyone, white or nigger, do him out of a
cent. His death will be hailed with joy
by that section of the white community in
the New Hebrides who live in dread of
French annexation. [26/5/’94.]
Jacky Campbell, the Queensland aborig-
inal who dropped dead at Eidsvold a short
time ago, was a character with a history.
When young he was taken in the train of a
Scotch squatter to the old land, and, while
there, was sent to school in Glasgow. He
learned to read and write with tolerable
accuracy and, like Quong Tart, developed an
unusual fondness for Scotch music. H'e also
stocked his head with Highland Gaelic.
The squatter introduced Jacky to Court,
and the interview between Jacky and her
Majesty was made much of in the English
prints. Jacky on his return from Europe
married a lubra, a native of Tasmania, and
took her with him to Maryborough. We
remember, in a meeting with Jacky at Mount
Perry, obtaining the key to his ideas of social
life by the following questions: “Jacky, are
you married?” “Married? Of course I am.
See here, it/s ever so much cheaper than
living single.” “And where is your wife
now?” “Maryborough.” “Why not bring her
about with you?” “Me! Do you take me for
one of those common blackfellows? D’ye
think I’d bring my wife into the bush? The
bush is no place for a woman! What society
is there for her here? No, I left her in fur-
nished lodgings in Maryborough, and when
I raise a few pounds I’ll return to civilis-
ation. Take my word for it, there’s no one
lower in the scale of God’s existence than
the Australian native.” Jacky was at that
time living by plundering his fellow-country-
men. Their reverence for him was a super-
stition. His superior knowledge was em-
ployed wholly in victimising them. The
police of the district believed him to be the
prime mover in many serious crimes, but
some untutored savage was always stuck in
that breach. Jacky’s life, after his return to
Queensland, always seemed to us to demon-
strate that the aboriginal mind and modern
civilisation could not pull together.
[29/6/’B9]
VERBAL CASH.
BLUEY: “How about a contract?”
MR. FLEECE: "Oh, never mind that, we’ll
have a verbal contract.”
BLUBY : “’Scuse me, Boss. Last time I had
a verbal contract I drew verbal wages.”
[Frank P. Mahony. —24/9/’92.]
A CRUEL FETE.
I rushed to that Dramatic Fete —
Not thinking (as you might suppose)
Of mummers in their needy state
Or burning to relieve their woes;
I rushed because my hejirt was set
On something else, you understand.
In point of fact, I meant to get
A cup of tea from Nellie’s hand.
Vain visions of the stilly night!
I’d dreamed of how I gaily wmnt
And found her serving, most polite,
In No. 1 Refreshment Tent.
Methouglit I gave her such a look
And thrilled her with my masher tricks;
A cup of tea in dreams I took,
The price of which was two-and-six.
Methouglit she gazed on me alone,
Reciprocating smirk and smile,
And whispered in a dulcet tone —
“Don’t run away just yet awhile.”
And, ere I left —how sweet it seems,
That invite ringing in my ear! —
The Nellie of those foolish dreams
Said, “Mind you come again next year.”
H'eigho! From three o’clock till five
A cup of tea I strove to win;
The doctor says I’m still alive
Although my ribs are battered in.
My fabric of ambition met
The fate of houses built on sand;
To tell the truth, I could not get
A distant view of Nellie’s stand.
“WHAT A FALL WAS THERE, MY COUNTRYMEN!”
THE UNDERMOST ONE (taken rather by surprise ): “Now, then, where in Sheol did
you come from?”
THE OTHER ONE: “From the north of Oirland, sir!” (He smiled at the wit, but never
forgave the injury.) [ “Hop.” 12/2/'97.]
I heard a Johnnie, tall and slim,
Exclaim, “She served me!” to a friend—
’Twas not my luck to follow him
And conquer danger in the end.
He reached the goal; his kindling eye
Bore witness to the truth he spoke.
“Put back the fete, O Lord!” I cry,
“And let me be that Johnnie bloke.”
But Time is ever on the wing,
And gentle Hope hath power to soothe;
Another year the chance will bring
Of death or glory in a booth.
If Nellie then be o’er the main,
Her charms by London critics sung,
With Heaven’s help I will obtain
A cup of tea from Florence Young.
[l9/7/’94.]
ANON.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Fox’s “Wicked,” at Sydney Regent, js
another attempt to put Elissa Landi on the
screen as a pashun-driven victim of man-
made laws. She accidentally shoots a de-
tective while trying to save her burglar-
husband (already dead though she doesn’t
know it), and gets live years. They let her
out to have her baby, and for some unspeci-
fied reason she assigns it to a septuagenarian
Judge and his wife. Having done her sen-
tence she wants it back. Y’ictor McLaglen,
as a chivalrous Australian, finds out where
little Margot is, and Elissa kidnaps her.
Enter a truculent ’tec. However, Victor
persuades the Judge to do the decent thing
(a very feeble scene this), and he, Elissa
and the child leave to start life afresh in
Australia. “She only did what every woman
would do, yet they called her ‘Wicked,’ ” says
the blurb. It doesn’t matter what they
called her: she is our old friend the nice
English girl, with no more evil in her than
a Girl Guide. The Continental sin-sisters
get their effects by under-playing. They use
one word in preference to two, and they
avoid using one if the idea can be expressed
by a hopeless shrug or a bitter sneer. The
writer hasn’t seen Garbo cry on a screen,
and she rarely seems to raise her deplorable
voice above conversational level, yet she is
impressive. Miss Landi howls with grief,
contorts her features, swoons, uses all the
traditional methods of tearing an emotion
to tatters, and remains trivial. McLaglen
is only a feeder to her, and the same applies
to Una Merkel, Irene Rich, Allan Dinehart
and others of the well-chosen cast. There
are some interesting shots in a luxury gaol
where the cells look like boudoirs, and Miss
Landi keeps her permanent wave.
“Caught” is the other Regent picture.
Louise Dresser plays “Calamity Jane,” a
hard-drinking, straight-shooting female who
encountered love trouble in youth (some-
where about the middle of last century),
and took to running a combined pub and
house of ill-fame in the Wild West of
America, where men are men, and usually
cowboys or mounted policemen. The writer
never expected to see more saluting in the
time than he did one day in London while
watching the trooping of the colors; but,
in this respect, Lootnant Richard Arlen and
his detachment, who are trying to convict
Jane of murder and cattle-stealing, lose the
Guards. Arlen, owing to criminal careless-
ness and stupidity, has his sergeant shot,
and is about to be shot himself when Jane
discovers he is her long-lost son. So she
lets him escape with lovely Frances Dee, a
newly-recruited member of the staff, who had
meant to earn her living by sacrificing that
without which a girl were better dead, but
had been sternly ordered to desist by her
employer. In short, the story is drivel. On
the other hand the acting is spirited; and
the bar. Wild West street, stage coach and
mustangs which are familiar to students of
this class of film are well photographed.
* * *
Romberg and Hammerstein 11. have col-
laborated again, making “Children of
Dreams” (Warner Bros. Vitaphone), now
at Sydney Lyceum. The music is not as
catchy as that of “Viennese Nights” or “The
Desert Song,” but “My Sleeping Beauty,”
the theme song, should be popular for a week
or so. Margaret Schilling and Paul Gregory
sing it at five-minute intervals throughout
the piece. The story centres in a nomad
fruitpicker girl who finds a career as a
singer in opera and renounces it to marry
her first sweetheart —a theme which lends
itself to musical and dramatic treatment
after “The Bohemian Girl” recipe. Gregory
and Miss Schilling have nice voices and the
debut scene at the New York Opera is well
done. The young lovers fade out under an
apple-tree, headed for an elopement.
¥ * *
Save as a setting for some magnificent
gowns worn by Helen Twelvetrees and the
reproduction of a famous Viennese beer-
garden, there is not much excuse for “A
Woman of Experience” (Radio), at Sydney
Capitol. Elsa, a lydy of Vienna, is engaged
by the Austrian War Office to trap a spy.
While very capably executing this commis-
sion she falls in love with a young Hun-
garian count, who marries her in the end.
That’s all. Miss Twelvetrees does some
f.a.q. vamping, 11. B. Warner gives a
believable picture of an Austrian staff officer.
Lew Cody conducts espionage on approved
stage lines and William Blalcewell is in his
element as an amorous Hungarian noble-
man. The presence of Zasu Pitts in a minor
role is a bright spot.
¥ * ¥
“My Sin” (Paramount), at Sydney’s
Prince Edward, is the story of Carlotta, a
lady with a Past. The skeleton in Tal-
lulah Bankhead’s cupboard is a period as a
dancer in a shabby Central American drink-
ing and gambling shop. She murders her
bullying, parasitical husband and is hauled
before a native Court. A drunken waster
with legal training offers to defend her
after the only American lawyer in the place
has turned her down. The derelict secures
a verdict of not guilty. Carlotta and he
reform. The man gets a job; the girl goes to
New York, under an assumed name, and be-
comes, of course, an interior decorator. A
wealthy young man wooes her, and she is
about to marry him when the ex-derelict
turns up and urges her to confess all.
Somebody else saves her the trouble, her
fiance drops her and she marries the reformed
drunk. The stuff is made interesting by
Miss Bankhead’s charm and talent and by
Fredric March’s convincing presentation of
the boozer.
“Kine-Pa”: “Cine-Ma” (B. 2/12/’3l)
says: “The talkie only became a practical
possibility when the photo-electric cell was
perfected.” In this he is not quite right. The
present-day sound head, including the p.-e.
cell, came after talkies, per medium of the
disc, had become a commercial success. The
sound track talkie must be improved upon
before it cair rival the disc as a sound repro-
ducer. Track recording was pushed into
the place it holds because of the trouble of
transporting discs and the liability of break-
age. Film deteriorates fairly rapidly, even
when not in use, and in the case of sound
track talkies the sound goes when the image
goes. Sound on disc has not this disability
and is permanent.


whlte
H .M. tfce
TkIMCL i
mm
j ,
Pi *QDUCE OF SCOTLAND
SCOTCH WHISKY
*BUCKI. WHITE”
#0 T«*»S *****
. SPECIAL BLEND W
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH
r k
Scotch whisky distilU^
GLASGOW 4 LOHCOH
ST CONTENTS I PINT 6
Let your
Xmas
Greetings
be in
BLACK
AND
WHITE
BOTTLED IN BOND UNDER CUSTOMS SUPERVISION


THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST. N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAIvIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne. '
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
BURSARIES
JAMES MURPHY
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
tenable at either
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
providing all tuition fees (if chargeable) and £7O per annum
towards the cost of residence at St. John’s College.
OR
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
providing £4O per annum towards fees, residence, etc.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made
available under the will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their
sons to study’ Agricultural Science, and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the
University of Sydney or of entrance to Ilawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than 15th January,
1032, in the case of Bursaries tenable at Ilawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later than
loth February, 1932. in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further
particulars may be obtained from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WATER-ROT IN WOOL.
“Murrawong”: One result of the abnormal
wet season in N. S. Wales has been the
appearance of water-rot in fleeces in dis-
tricts where it was previously unknown, and
the resultant loss in value is much more
serious than the average woolgrower
realises. The disease, also known as “water-
stain,” “dead-yolk” and “yolk-stain,” has
been hitherto confined to districts with an
abundant rainfall and plenty of green feed,
and very little attention has been paid to
it. Recent investigations, however, have
proved that the occurrence may develop into
a great menace, since its prevalence has
been reported even from beyond the Lachlan
and the Darling.
The parts chiefly affected are the wither
and back of the sheep, where moisture does
not readily drain after a heavy shower.
Nothing is visible until the fleece is opened;
then the wool is found to be matted together
in staples with a pasty-like substance that
gives off a musty odor. The patches are
sometimes yellow, but are mostly a bright
green, with variations of orange, brown,
purple and even a deep red. On close
examination it will be found that the wool
affected has been rendered harsh and wasty.
This discoloration is a permanent stain and
will not scour out of the wool.
In the shearing-shed these patches should
be removed from the fleece and the piece-
pickers should be instructed to keep them
apart —not to work them through the pieces,
as is usually the case with anything doubt-
ful. If only a small amount is found in the
clip they may be worked in with the stained
pieces, but, where prevalent, make a separate
line, especially where entire fleeces are found
to be affected. To illustrate the seriousness
and the sudden spread of the disease I can
instance a flock of 10,000 sheep where' this
shearing I got 14 bales of water-stained
wool—last year I had not enough to make
up a single bale.
Reference was made to the disease in the
N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette” for August,
where it was named as a source of attrac-
tion to blowfly attack. It was stated that
the disease was due, not to an accumulation
of water in the wool alone, but to the action
of bacteria in the water-logged yolk and
wool-scales. Neither factor is separately
responsible for the damage; the combination
of water and bacteria is necessary. But one
discovery made by the department—one
which must be viewed with alarm by every
woolgrower—is that the disease is highly in-
fectious. Small locks of green-stained wool
attached to the fleeces of healthy sheep were
sufficient to transmit the disease, so it needs
no fertile imagination to picture the damage
a few affected sheep may cause in a mob.
When the grower realises that he is going
to lose at least sixpence per pound on all
such wool—even on the present low market
—he may bestir himself to find ways and
means of combating, or at least confining
the spread of, the disease.
THE DRAFT ON WOOL ONCE MORE.
“Bill O’C.”: “Trepex” (B. 9/12/’3l)
seems to forget his own pleadings. Refer-
ence to his first letter will show that he did
(1) speak of the draft as a concession to
the buyer, (2) call it an ancient custom, and
so impliedly justified it. A “sort of discount
of weight” to the buyer, concession, throw-
in, or whatever we call it is termed “noth-
ing to bleat about.” Nothing that the other
man pays ever is; but it seems to be some-
thing quite well worth fighting for! As a
fact it is lib. per cwt., roughly 31b. per
bale ; say, 2s. to 3s. per bale, or £lO to
£l5 per 100 bales. Quite a respectable
tip for no return. Many a waiter and
porter has done more for one per cent, of
that.
I said that the buyer would have to pay
more if he did not pay cash (which was one
of “Trepex’s” claims for special considera-
tion) and this is dismissed by him as
“Rubbish !” I suggest that “Trepex” try
his hand at buying any commodity from a
cash salesman, asking for immediate delivery,
then proposing a post-dated bill in payment,
and observe the result. After that he
might heave his lordly “Rubbish!” at the
other party and note more results. Tall
talk about “world parity” doesn’t cut any
ice in the financial world when credit for
payment is in issue.
That the buyer, if denied his draft, “is
sure to take it out in some other way” I
called a threat, and still think it one. On
“Trepex’s” own interpretation it means a
conspiracy to undervalue in order to secure
something not intended in the bargain. But
after all it need not scare us. To be effective
the plot would have to be general and the
history of all such general conspiracies is
that they don’t last.
As for the insistence on the “puzzling un-
certainty” involved, the buyers of grain, live-
stock, potatoes, butter, fish and what-not
incur far bigger risks and puzzles, due to
causes from which wool-dealing is generally
exempt —-disease, perishability and latent
defects of quality—but they estimate their
gains and losses, as woolbuyers do, by care-
ful inspection in advance, and their prices
are not subject to concessions or discounts.
Even our bottle-oh doesn’t stipulate for
drafts or the like because of undoubted risks
from unseen cracks and the chances of an
unholy smash on the way to market.
All the special pleading in the world
doesn’t get away from the fact that the
draft is a gift of something of value for
nothing, an anachronism and an imposition.
A CYCLE OF AGE-MARKS.
“G.S.M.” : “Liss’s” cycle of age-marks (B.
2/12/’3l), although a good one, is not so
simple as the five-year cycle adopted on
many Riverina and Queensland stations. In
this the front of the ear only is used, leav-
ing the back of it for class marks —denoting,
say, No. 1 or No. 2 flock.
For all years ending in “0” or “5” (1930
and 1935, for example), leave a full ear;
for years ending in “1” or “6,” make one
front notch ; “2” or “7,” two front notches;
“3” or “8,” three front notches or a sawset;
“4” or “9,” a. point mark. Such is the
cycle, and it lias proved ample, particularly
on places where culling for age is a regular
procedure. Use of the front of the eaF
only simplifies drafting; in the case of sheep
inclined to. be woolly about the head it pre-
vents many stoppages in the drafting race
to examine backs of ears. A further advan-
tage is that every man on the run can
master this system in a few minutes.
OVERSTOCKING.
“Whitetop”: Farmers who overstock are
looking for trouble. In N. S. Wales, where
men are struggling to keep their heads above
water, and the season has been good and the
lambing excellent, the temptation to put more
stock on country than it can normally carry
is unusually great. But to yield is dan-
gerous. The inevitable dry spell is ahead,
and if a farmer gets caught present-day
returns from sheep and wool will not meet
payments for dear agistment. Sheepmen
should take the opportunity of increased
numbers to cull their flocks severely and sell
the rejects for what they will bring. Im-
proved flocks and pastures result.
In the management of my pastures I fence
off adjoining water, an area representing
about 7-1 p.c. of a sheep paddock, and divide
it into three small paddocks. These I never
stock until there is substantial rain. Then
I place all the sheep from the large pad-
docks into a division of the small one. It will
carry them for a week; then they go in
turn into the other two small enclosures.
Being spelled three weeks to a month after
rain gives the large sheep paddocks a wonder-
ful chance to recover. Anyway my farm’s
carrying capacity is steadily improving.
GOOD SELF-SOWN WHEAT CROPS.
“Woorinen” : Last winter The Bulletin
had several pars, about, self-sown crops. The
departmental judge of a fallow-and-crop com-
petition now says that “many self-sown
crops in the Ultima-Swan Hill country will
yield five bags to the acre” —“up to six
bags,” says the agricultural editor of the
“Australasian.” Across the Murray, at
Goodnight, .T. Lockhart is stripping six bags
to the acre off self-sown. These results bear
out the writer’s earlier contention that, in
the Vic. Maliee at any rate, self-sown crops
were a good gamble in a year like this.
It is interesting to note that while about
15 inches of rain fell in the Malice during
the year, over 11 inches fell before June 30.
The next four months registered a total of
three inches; and a trifle over an inch fell
in November, except where isolated thunder-
storms occurred. Had a little more rain
come in September, the crops would have
been records. As it is. they made such
growth in the early months that they stand
up well and show a lot of strain. Con-
sequently, for the first time in the memory
of man, truck after truck of hay is being
consigned from many Mallee stations —a lot.
of it is going to the straw-envelope factories,
which have been unable to get their usual
supplies to date from their down-country
suppliers. The labor of cutting and carting
the hay is appreciated by local lads.
CUT OUT THE WHEAT SACKS!
“Oxonian”: Here’s how to make a start to
help the farmer reduce his expenditure, and
at the same time create profitable employ-
ment for Australians, and likewise keep the
greater part of the sum annually sent to
Gandhiland for cornsacks. Extend the bulk-
handling system until all wheat sent over-
seas is dispatched without those expensive
containers. Probably finance won’t permit
silos to be built everywhere for many years,
but additional space at the terminal elevators
and more bulk trucks would be of material
assistance until silos are built wherever the
quantity of wheat trucked warrants their
erection. Wheat can be loaded into bulk
trucks without difficulty even without a
dump. At current rates wheat in bags
is worth only per bushel more than silo
wheat. The price of bulk wheat (i.e., wheat
loaded direct into trucks, thus escaping
country elevator charges) and of bagged
wheat is the same. Dispensing with bags
represents a saving of at least. 3d. per bushel;
but the bulk trucks available at non-silo
stations are hopelessly inadequate. If the
sum now spent each year in the purchase of
cornsacks were utilised to build bulk trucks,
which can be used for general merchandise
during the remainder of the year, there would
be ample rolling stock to handle our wheat
in bulk, and the wasteful and expensive
system of bagging would soon be a relic of
the past.
PROTECTING THE HAYSTACK.
“Booraby”: Thatching a haystack has
always seemed to me a waste of time. For
a stack of, say, 25 tons about a
ton of sheaved straw is required, besides
400 or more thatching pegs up to 2ft. long,
a large quantity of binder twine or thatch-
ing wire, and long bolsters made of twisted
straw for eaves and ridge. The stack has
to be carefully built, wider at the eaves than
at the bottom, and the top neatly prepared
and well batted before the thatch is put on.
The getting and preparing of the material,
and making a waterproof job of the thatch-
ing, take longer than it would to build a
permanent shed. The thatch also is a nuis-
ance and a waste when the stack is being
used.
The shed costs the farmer, in actual cash,
merely the roof iron, and the time saved
soon makes up for that. It is not necessary
to make walls; split rails between the up-
rights are sufficient if the roof comes well
over the wallplates. Only bush timber is
needed —round posts and rafters, the wall-
plates adzed on top, and thin saplings, also
adzed on top, for battens. That shed, built
of ironbark or box, will last a man as long as
he is able to make hay. And he doesn’t
have to spend time carefully stacking, as
he has to for thatching; he just pitches the
hay into the shed and tramps it down. He
can fill it to the apex of the roof, and by
and bye, if he wants more room, he can add
another section to the shed. Another im-
portant point is that the hay is always
handy to get at. The thatched stack he
has to partly unstrip when he wants a few
loads, and then rearrange the cover at. the
end, or substitute a tarpaulin to keep the
weather out.
Some farmers, in a rush harvest, build
the stack in the open, and if it is to remain
indefinitely, perhaps as a store for lean
times, put a shed over it afterwards. That
is simple enough—a few stout posts along
the sides, about 15ft. apart, sapling wall-
plates and rafters, and a roof of iron or
bark. I have seen many a roof put on with-
out posts. For this the stack has to be
built as for thatching. A pole is first laid
along the ridge, and two or three other
poles are hung with fencing wire from that
along the slope, and sheets of iron screwed
on to t hem: or, instead of iron, bark can
be put on and held down with “jockeys”
and “riders.” This has to be taken off when
the hay is wanted, but if posts are used the
roof is permanent.
Where thatching is necessary, for want of
other materials, tea-tree bark (cork- or
paper-bark), obtainable in most swampy
places, is better than straw. It lays nicely
where it’s wanted, is quicker to put on, and
is more impervious to weather. This favorite
gunyah-covering of the blacks makes a cool
and lasting roof for small sheds.
On many N.S.W, farms barn and hay-
stack occupy two plots where one should be
sufficient. With a loft, and a wide door in
each gable end, the roof does double duty
by covering the hay as well as the barn
itself. I have seen a thatched haystack
alongside a big barn, the space above the
wallplates of which was never used for any
purpose. With an upper floor —and any
sort, of rough boarding suits—it could have
accommodated the stack and saved all the
trouble of thatching. A loft holds tons of
hay, and it is always handy to cut up on
wet days.
LIME AND AGRICULTURAL LIME,
“lly. Drockside”: It is tine to be able to
report that at least one commodity essential
to the well-being of the man on the land
(and his farm) is coming into line with the
Premiers’ plan. I refer to agricultural lime,
which is now obtainable, as the finely-divided
carbonate of excellent quality (90 per cent.),
in bags on rail at £1 a ton —a 40 per cent,
cut in Victoria.
Strictly speaking, lime is calcium oxide,
also termed “burnt,” “stone,’’ “builder’s,”
“quick” or “fat” lime. This is the stuff
which is largely used as an insecticide and in
the making of insecticides (lime powders)
and fungicides (Bordeaux mixture and lime
sulphur). Nowadays it is seldom used on
broad acres.
Calcium hydro-oxide, or calcium hydrate, is
the lime compound which is formed when
stone lime is slaked with water. It is an
amorphous powder, and is the dearest form
of lime on the market. In recent years
is has forged ahead by leaps and bounds in
all parts of the world as a substitute for
stone lime in the building trade, the theory
being that the builder would be saved the
trouble and expense of slaking. This form of
lime (like the stone lime) serves no additional
advantage as a soil dressing, its cost and its
caustic action in the soil prior to carbonation
—which checks rather than accelerates nitri-
fication —rendering its use uneconomical. On
the other hand, carbonate of lime —in the
form of chalk or ground limestone —is the
recognised ameliorator, and the most econo-
mical form of lime to buy for the purpose
of soil or pasture improvement.
Air-slaked lime, which is also called agri-
cultural lime, might or might not be worth
buying, all depending on the price, the
and the degree of fineness. Lime
in the form of gypsum should hardly be
regarded as lime, although it will always
provide some benefit, and is particularly use-
ful on certain soils and subsoils which are
inclined to “set” owing to bad physical con-
dition.
This information may prove of interest
to “Albert P.” (B. 25/11/’3l), who after
years of experience has decided that the
oxide (burnt builder’s lime, finely ground)
is the cheapest and best. I have never
seen burnt builder's lime finely ground, nor
would I like the job of grinding it. It is
suggested that “Albert P.” used the hydrate,
in which case he purchased it dirt cheap.
Ten tons of hydrate is equal to about 14
tons of carbonate (chalk). The task of
spreading the oxide is a “fair cow” on most
days, whilst the spreading of the carbonate
is a pleasant task in all weathers.
BAGGING BANANAS.
“Musa”: One of the troubles besetting
the banana-grower is rust. A Gympie (Q.)
grower claims to have overcome the trouble
by bagging his banana bunches. The bags,
cut from old chaff-bags or similar material,
are put on the green bunches and kept there
until they , are ready to cut. The Gympie
man’s bagged fruit was not only free from
rust, but was well colored, evenly filled, and
ready to cut two weeks sooner than un-
bagged fruit. Market returns showed from
3s. to Ts. a case better than the unbagged
output.
The dodge is not a new one. Chinese
growers in North Queensland made a prac-
tice of covering the developing bunches, but
they used, instead of bagging, the wide fronds
of the banana-plant itself. Curiously enough,
the natives of Papua followed exactly the
same method, though they could never have
received instruction from European or
Chinaman.
FIRST AID ON THE FARM.
“B. Sure”: A nasty knock when attend-
ing to machinery can easily turn- into some-
thing serious unless precaution is taken. A
burn from scald in the kitchen or during the
initial stages of quelling an outbreak of fire
is not at all uncommon, and then there is
the severe gash obtained when the knife
slipped. All these, and dozens of other
cases, are proof of the necessity for a well-
cared-for first-aid outfit on every farm.
A book on “First Aid to the Injured,”
procurable from an ambulance association,
is the first essential, and then a strong box
or tin containing the following should be
always kept handy: Tincture of iodine (as
a general antiseptic), picric acid solution
and carron oil (for burns), castor oil, sal
volatile (for use in cases of faintness),
vaseline, boric acid, carbolic acid or lysol,
potassium permanganate (for snakebite),
scissors in good order, bandage rolls (lin.
and 2in.), rubber ligature, boric lint and
sterilised cotton-wool. And get the chemist
to make up a solution of carbolic acid (.1 per
cent.) in 3 per cent. salt. This is a useful
mixture, especially as a throat gargle during
the winter and as a most effective nasal
douche for hay fever.
(Continued on page 26.)


Flexible..... for hard,
active wear
An Abbey Boot, double-soled
with the toughest leather. It is
easy-fitting.... built on a special
Abbey last which provides for
every curve of the foot. There’s
not the least strain or tightness.
The ankle, cut slightly lower at
back, fits snugly and comfort-
ably.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 45/-
BLAC£ BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 260
Changing
rjoVrtl. *°°
7
Often
'Perhaps
I'You Need
New Plugs
Old plugs result
in lost power—
that’s why your
car doesn't pull
so well.
Restore its pep by
fitting a new set of
PYROX
SPARK
PLUGS.
They’re made in
Australia by
Bosch methods
and machinery—
that’s proof of
their quality.
PYfe
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY., LTD.
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply and
Service Co. Pty.., Ltd.)
MELBOURNE.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
J4RMERS
'4«b. RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture . Veterinary
Notes Etc .... All in ..
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES 62
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge.”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
A
Don't
Let
This Happen
on Tout Trip
Start on your trip with a feeling of con-
fidence in your battery. Be sure that it
will not let you down in the traffic or
miles away from home. The reserve
power built into every Exide is ample to
supply all needs of your starter, your
light*, and all the other equipment that
depends on your battery.
Whatever the conditions —wet or fine, hot
WHEN IT'S AN... or cold —when it’s an Exide you start.
f
£xii>e
Th e Long Life Battery
rot CARS. RADIO -i HO Ml (ICHTINC
OBTAINABLE FROM: Brisbane—Exide Battery
Service (Q.), Ltd.; Sydney—Exide Battery Service
(Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd.) ; Melbourne —A. P.
Sutherland ; Adelaide —Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd. ;
Perth —M. J. Bateman, Ltd.; Hobart—Medhurst and
Sons Pty., Ltd. C.2/6
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred jrom Service Department.)
(1) How much capital is required to start
dairy-farming in Vic.? (2) What return per
cow can he expected? (3) What are the
prospects regarding prices? (4) What is the
lowest price for hutter-fat at which a profit
can he shown? (5) Average price of hutter-
fat? (6) Most suitable breed of cows? —
7088.
(1) About £l5OO. (2) £9 to £25 gross.
(3) Nobody knows. (4) Depends on yield
of cows, and ranges from Is. lOd. per pound
for a cow yielding 1751 b. to 101 d. for one
yielding 4001 b. (5) For the past year,
Is. 3d. per pound. (6) Jerseys are the
most easily acquirable of the desirable breeds.
Is milk from a freshly-calved cow harm-
ful to pigs? If so, what is the reason? —
7292.
It is not considered harmful, but its
natural purpose is to purge the intestines of
the young calf.
Recipe for a kerosene, sulphur and lard
ointment for sores on horses? —7257.
Such an ointment is not suitable for
cuts or abrasions. For mange, use 1 part
sulphur, 5 parts lard (by weight) and 2oz.
kerosene to every Boz. of the other ingredi-
ents.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Kripple”: A good example of the utility
of the new cradle lamb-marking method, now
being largely adopted in C.Q., was furnished
during a late shearing. Unmarked lambs
came into the yards and were drafted off—
-74 of them on this particular day. Being
shorthanded, the station overseer got to
work alone and, using a set of cradles, loaded
registered, age-marked, tailed, castrated,
tarred and released the 74 lambs in 40
minutes.
“Bloss”: In the north and north-west of
N.S.W. scabby mouth is taking a heavy
toll of lambs and young sheep. This disease
appears to be particularly prevalent in cab-
bage-thistle country.- To save lambs, have
a paddock clean of thistles, and should they
develop sore mouths change them into it.
In thistle country it is necessary to cut all
thistles in such a paddock during winter
to have it clean. Barley grass can be con-
trolled in a small paddock by stocking very
heavily during the winter. When sheep are
suffering from barley grass-seed in their
wool, it pays to swim them frequently.
“lan J.” ; While quality in pork is largely
a matter of breed and type, it is also a
matter of feeding and management. Maize
will not give a good quality of pork if it
forms more than 25 per cent, of Ahe grain
ration. Milk will help to offset its effects:
addition of wheat, oats, barley or peas helps
the milk still more. Mixed grain gives
better results than one variety. Milk is
the best addition to grain; meatmeal the
best substitute for milk. Pigs must have
green feed for vitamine supply; bonemeal,
charcoal and ashes are necessary for mineral
supply. Salt in excess is poison to pigs.
'“Grunter”: N.S.W. pigbreeders report a
healthy demand for stores from many vege-
table-growers and orchardists. It was time
the producer with waste crops or immature
lines realised that Dennis will turn them
into £ s. d.
“G.J.A.S.”: A drenching trumpet that
will not corrode can be made out of a
large-size olive-oil bottle. First, measure
the dose required in water and pour into the
bottle while it is standing on a level surface.
Now scratch a mark with a file on outside
of bottle at the exact level the dose comes
to; fill bottle with water and cork. With
square end of file chip out a hole about the
size of a threepenny bit, base of hole being
level with your dose mark. A rocking move-
ment with the end of file, using little force,
will soon work the hole through and the
pressure of water prevents the glass breaking
away. Smooth edges with a small round
file and the job is done. When using, have
your cask or jar of Milestone mixture handy,
hold bottle by neck and drop the heel of it
into the mixture. It will take up the exact
dose. Place your thumb over hole and
push neck of bottle down .Tumbuck’s throat.
Release your thumb and away she goes.
“Wongi”: To save cornsacks at harvest
time, use a bag-filler made from a piece of
tw r o-inch heavy gauge down-piping about the
length of bag, closed at top with a gal-
vanised-iron cap or wooden plug; a hole about
If inch in diameter is cut on side about
6 inches from top and a fair-sized scuttle-
sliaped funnel soldered round. Force open
end down through wheat along side of inside
of bag to bottom corner, fill through funnel
and withdraw gently ; the wheat inside fills
up the pipe vacuum. Repeat on other corner;
sew bag to within a few inches of finishing
and insert filler a few times down sides.
Finish off under sewing.
“Ivilkivan”: Sight of a motor-truck of
wheat at the siding prompted me to ask
an old cocky why men did not do their own
carting. He said it paid to hire the motor
for two reasons ; “There’s so much straw
and grass this year that danger from fire
makes it advisable to get the wheat out
quick, before the team is ready. And fresh-
strijiped wheat weighs heavy. If the bags
are left in the paddocks for a month they
lose weight. The gain in weight by carting
in straight from the harvester pays for the
carting.” An agent who has bought hun-
dreds of thousands of bags confirms this.
His figures show that he always loses weight
on wheat received by him earlier in the
season.
“Wescocky”: To make a temporary chaff-
feeder for horses away from the stable, get
some 40-gallon oildrums and cut them in
two; a heavy hammer applied to an old axe
cuts them fairly quickly. Two horses face
to face can feed from the half-drums, which
will last for years. When erecting frames
to hold the feeders, place pairs of posts, about
4ft. Gin. high, the width of a drum apart,
every six feet. Now lay rails along the two
post lines about 4ft. from the ground and
secure them with bolts or a hitch of wires;
the drums can be hung in position by punch-
ing a small hole in their sides and wiring
them to the rails. A shed of boughs can be
quickly built over the feeder.
“Sylvester”: To keep that small gate
closed, take 18in. of old car tubing, secure
one end to the post the gate is hung on,
stretch tight across the face of the gate, and
nail it through a softwood cleat. As the
gate is opened the tubing will stretch and
will draw the gate shut again.
“Karaway”: Galvanised screws in old
roofs are often very difficult to turn with
a screwdriver. Get hold of the heads with a
pair of pincers and they will turn quite
easily.
“Mulgo”: Fastening a screw in a brick
or concrete wall is always a troublesome
thing. The usual practice is to drive in a
wooden plug to hold the screw, but that
shrinks or otherwise becomes loose. Try
a plug of lead, as a piece of small piping.
This, when hammered in, fills the uneven
surfaces of the hole and, being also ex-
panded with the screw, gets a firm grip.
“Disc Harrow”: When a water-supply
reaches their township fruitgrowers gener-
ally consider installing pipes for irrigating
their trees. They should first make sure
whether the expense is warranted. In the
case of southern Vic. orchards on clay soils,
thorough working can conserve moisture to
such an extent that watering is unnecessary.
As a test one year a neighbor, on knocking
off every evening, threw a few tins of water
on some selected trees. The only difference
noted was that their leaves were somewhat
greener and stayed on longer than in the
case of the unwatered ones. His orchard,
incidentally, is noted for its thorough working.
“Bufforp”: Don’t overcrowd your cooped
fowls for market. A few fresh-looking birds
in a crate catch the eye and mean a better
sale. Bedraggled birds don’t appeal. And
don’t wait for markets; send them along
when they are fit.
“Karaway”: Much is heard these days
about over-production, and farmers are fre-
quently advised to grow less. But they
might profit in another way by growing more.
At Allora (Q.) many of the farmers do well
by fattening sheep on cultivated lands. For-
ward stores fatten in three months on oats,
at the rate of 10 sheep per acre in good
.seasons, and eight in ordinary seasons.
“J. J.”: I put in a strip of Canadian
Wonder beans, 50ft. by 150 ft.. on .the Tweed
River. After two weeks they started to
turn yellow, so we pulled them up and
burnt them. Then we went in for traps—
so successfully that we have now an acre
of beans doing very well. We plant beans
here and there among them, pull these beans
up, and so catch the bean-fly, which goes
for young beans first. Epicure is the best
variety for trap crops, being more tender.
“Marsh”: To prolong the life of posts
supporting sheds and other buildings, get an
auger and bore a couple of holes on each
side of the post in a downward angle. Pour
in some tar, allow it to soak in, then fill up
the holes and cork up with a small peg.
Repeat the process every three months. Very
little tar is used, but the life of the posts
is prolonged, especially if white ants are
in the neighborhood.
“Mulgo”: When growing trees for plant-
ing out sow the seeds in jam-tins. First
punch a large hole in the bottom of the tin,
or make a cut down one side and across
the bottom, then put in a few small stones
before filling with soil. Sink it in the
ground, and when the tree is about a foot
high, set it out where it is intended to grow
without removing the tin. Another plan
i; to sow the seed in small wooden boxes,
about 4in. square, with a thin bottom lightly
fastened with two tacks. When setting the
tree out, prise the bottom off. For quick-
growing plants, small cardboard boxes or
pots are the best. These soon rot in the
ground, and enable the plants to be placed
anywhere without disturbing the roots. If
you have no cardboard, paste together three
or four layers of brown paper, and fasten
with thin wire in the size and shape required
while it is wet.
“Dimon”: A cheap varnish, suitable for
touching up furniture and for giving a gloss
to paints, may be made with grass-tree gum,
crushed to a fine powder and mixed with
methylated spirit. The gum is found in
lumps around the butt end of the trees, especi-
ally after they have been burnt in a bush-
fire. The best of the species is the one with
the light golden-green top, which produces
the yellow gum. The others have dark-green
tops, and produce red and chestnut gums.
“W.D.Me.”: “Liss” (B. 2/12/’3l) could
not have read my par. (B. 18/11/’3l) care-
fully. For lamb-marking I recommended
equal parts of Stockholm tar and whale oil
thinned down with kerosene —not whale oil
alone. Whale oil and spirits of tar have
been used for 150 years in Scotland for
flyblow, and no preparation has been
discovered to beat it. But for lamb-marking
I prefer the S. tar and kerosene mixture,
and 1 have yet to see a lamb struck after an
application. In regard to crutching ewes, I
was referring to the autumn lambing. No
one would be silly enough to want to crutch
ewes only shorn a few weeks. Swabbing is
all right for the owner of a few sheep,
but when it comes to thousands jetting is
the only practical process. In my experi-
ence a man with a weak stomach and a
sensitive olfactory organ is a poor sheepman ;
he has a tendency to scamp disagreeable but
important operations that have to be per-
formed in every flock, large or small.
“Centurion”: The subsidising of thorough-
bred premium sires by the British Govern-
ment, which has more than once been
referred to in The Bulletin as a means by
which Australia might again build up its
remount trade, has been temporarily aban-
doned for economic reasons. As a result the
show usually held in March by the War
Office in conjunction with the Hunters’ Im-
provement and National Light Horse
Breeders' Society is not to take place. While
the system has been in operation, farmers
have been enabled to send their mares to
sires far better than they could have afforded
to engage in the ordinary way of things.
As a result the army has been able to obtain
a superior class of remount and the small
horse-breeder a type of saddle-horse com-
manding. either as remount or hunter, a
more remunerative price than was on offer
under the old haphazard system of mating
in the cheapest market.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (22), six years’ exp. with cattle and
sheep in Q’land and N.S.W., wants job as overseer
or jackeroo, anywhere in Australia. Refs.—729o.
Ex-Hawkesbury College student (25), exp. in all
farm work and station book-keeping, wants job on
station or farm.—7322.
Man and wife will give services on pig or poultry-
farm to gain experience; live with family; wife
light duties. —7353.
Uni. student, Sydney, geology, mineralogy and
surveying, seeks work during vacation. —7408.
Undergraduate in medicine, Sydney Uni., wants
employment till March. —7413.
Sydney reader will exchange “West Wind,” “Chaste
Diana,” “Second Mate” and similar books for other
novels. —7318.
To buy. “Forty Years in India and Queensland,”
by Robert Gray.—732l.
To exchange set of Q.J.P. to 1927 inclusive for
something useful on farm. —7319.
To exchange course of freelance journalism for
back numbers of “The Inland Printer,” “British
Printer,” “American Pressman” and “Printers’ Ink.”
—7301.
Words of “Murphy’s Brindle Cow” and “The
Stockman’s Last Ride.” —7311.
Words of song “Absent,” containing the line “My
eyes grow dim with tenderness awhile.”—73o6.
To buy “Billy Pagan, Mining Engineer,” and
“Parer and Mclntosh’s Flight to Darwin.” —7286.
To buy, second-hand, books by Rotha, Lejeune,
Pudovkin, Messel, Carter, Betts, Seldes and Montagu
on the film industry.—7362.
To buy post-war edition of Webster’s Dictionary'.
—7363.
To buy, or borrow, copies of magazine “Close
Up.”—7364.
To buy “Bushmen and Buccaneer” by Frank
Renar.—74o9.
To exchange copies of “Art in Australia’’ for
shotgun or something useful.—7374.
Whereabouts of David James, brother of the late
Louis James. —7368.
Address of widow or children of Coolan,
discoverer of Mount Coolan goldmine, Q’land. —7407.
Whereabouts of Joseph MacArthur Andrews (181)
who left Dublin, Oct. 1929. Brother inquiring.—
7436.
Information Sought.
(1) Did China and/or Japan submit their
dispute to the Council of the League of
Nations as agreed by members of the League?
(2) If one or both did so are they not
violating the terms of the Convention of the
League in carrying on hostilities while await-
ing the decision of their case? (3) If they
have thus violated these terms, are not all
other League members pledged to discon-
tinue diplomatic, financial and trade rela-
tionships with the offending Powers? —7111.
(1) China called the attention of the
League to Japanese action in Manchuria.
The League requested Japan to evacuate
its troops into the railway zone and charged
the Chinese Government with the duty of
ensuring the safety of Japanese in Man-
churia. (2) China accepted the league's
proposals. Japan accepted them in part, but
said that it doubted China’s ability to pro-
tect Japanese during the evacuation. The
League has not declared any party an
offender. It has appointed a commission of
inquiry to proceed to Manchuria. (3) Yes.
I am a N.S.W. orchardist and cart my
fruit to towns along the railway line. If I
sell the fruit to my son or to a brother can
they cart it without getting a special license
or paying a tax under the neiv Transport
Act?— 7o67.
You must license the vehicle under the
State Transport (Co-ordination) Act, and
if the journeys made compete with the
Government railways for more than 20 miles,
charges in accordance with the Act will be
payable. As regards the requirements of
the Act, it is immaterial to whom you sell
your fruit.
What speeds have been attained by the
horse, greyhound, kangaroo dog, kangaroo,
emu, ostrich, hare and rabbit?—6 9s9.
A racehorse can cover a furlong in
(42 6-7 m.p.h.). The same distance can
be completed by a greyhound in 124 sec. (36
m.p.h.), The hare is not nearly as speedy
as the greyhound. It has been reported that
a hare given about 170 yards start in half
a mile has been caught in half the distance.
The rabbit is much slower than the hare.
No records are available of the speed of the
kangaroo dog or the kangaroo. The emu has
been timed against a motor-car, and it was
found that its speed was about 30 m.p.h.
The ostrich is believed to be swifter than
the emu, but no records of its speed are
available.
(1) What are the signs by which the pre-
sence of wood-borers may be known? (2)
Hotv to exterminate them? —7210.
(1) Indications are a powdery substance
and numerous small holes about the size of
a pin’s-head on the face of the board. (2)
Treat the affected parts with turpentine or
methylated spirit in which is dissolved a
little white arsenic powder (for white
boards) or Black Leaf 40 (for dark boards).
Allow the mixture to soak in before rubbing
the boards again. Three or four applications
may be necessary.
I own an Irish terrier pup and am told he
will become very savage when he grows older.
Is that true? —7l6s.
No. The Irish terrier is an excellent com-
panion and a good house dog. Trained from
the weaning stage he becomes much attached
to his mdster, and if properly looked after
should not become savage. Amongst other
dogs he may show signs of fight, but he is
peaceable and affectionate in the home.
Are 1914 pennies worth more than face
valuef I have heard that they are worth
2s. (id. each. —7191.
No. Rumors having no foundation in
fact have obtained currency to the effect
that pennies of 1914 and 1922 have by acci-
dent acquired gold in their alloy. This the
British Mint and the press have denied.
Why does the International Date Line
assume the shape it doest Why is it not
of regular direction,' like a meridian of longi-
tude?—736l.
The line is arranged so as not to touch
any land surface, otherwise there might be
two times on one island.
In tennis the server serves a ball which
strikes the centre line between two courts on
the outside edge of the line —that is to say in
the other court. Is that service correct or
is it a fault? —7190.
A service which- strikes the line, no. matter
what part of the line, is a good service.
(1) Is there any institution in Sydney
where one can study astronomy? (2) Are
there any amateurs in Sydney , or near it,
who have built observatories of their own?
(3) Books of assistance to a student? —7211.
(1) Astronomy is taught at Sydney
Uni., but not as a special subject. It is
included in mathematics in the arts course.
(2) Yes. Walter Gale, at Waverley, H.
Richardson, at Mosman, Mr. Mitchell, at
Rockdale, and others. (3) “The Southern
Stars,” by James Nangle, Angus and
Robertson, ss. 6d.; and “Round the Year
with the Stars,” by Garrett P. Serviss. For
further information, communicate with the
secretary of the British Astronomical Assoc.
(N.S.W. branch), Mr. Mackerras, Town
Hall, Sydney.
How can I obtain a motor engineer’s cer-
tificate in N.S.W.? Qualifications and
knowledge required and fee? Where to
apply? —7ol7.
To our knowledge the only certificate issued
in N.S.W. is the one issued by the N.R.M.A.,
which is a motor mechanic’s, not an
engineer’s, certificate. In order to sit for
this examination a candidate must have
served, an apprenticeship of at least four
years as a mechanic in a reputable motor-
engineering shop or garage, and furnish
proof of such experience to the satisfaction
of the board. The examination is a test of
the mechanic’s practical knowledge of the
motor-car. The entrance fee is 10s. Od.
(1) Approximate cost of a s.-w. receiver
capable of receiving foreign stations? (2)
Is reception possible on the loud-speaker?
(3) Any special skill required for its opera-
tion? (4) Could I use the same aerial for
both short-wave and broadcast reception
simultaneously? —7l92.
(1) Between £lO and £l5, exclusive of
valves and batteries, etc., if you assemble
the parts. (2) Yes, during those periods of
the day which are favorable for the recep-
tion of.the station in question and provided
the transmitting power is adequate. (3)
The manipulation of a s.-w. receiver is
mastered after a little practice. Much use-
ful knowledge concerning s-w. stations and
reception is obtainable from any of the
weekly wireless journals. (4) It is pos-
sible to operate a number of receivers off a
common aerial, but 50 feet of copper wire
is cheap, and separate aerials are recom-
mended.
(1) What is the capital outlay on the
tramways of Sydney? (2) Amount of
interest payable yearly? (3) Number of
men employed and total wages paid? (4)
Wages paid to drivers and conductors? (5)
Amount of surplus or deficit for each of
the last three years? —6B27.
(1) £7,515,805 at June 30, 1931. (2)
£398,739. (3) 7,919 employees; annual
wages, £2,002,065. (4) Drivers, up to
£4 13s. 6d.; conductors, from £4 2s. 6d. to
£4 12s. 6d. (5) 1927-28. surplus, £122.028;
1928-29. surplus, £26,914; 1929-30, deficit,
£315,482; 1930-31, deficit, £433,096.
Is there any Australian timber suitable
for use as beer- or wine-casks? —73B9.
A. J. Harper, of Marbellup (W.A.), mills
a she-oak which is used for casks by breweries
in various States. Tas. blackwood is also
sometimes used.
Hoic to save a two-year-old mahogany gum
from borers? —7302.
If they are working under the bark, the
only thing to do is to locate and remove
them. If the tunnels penetrate into the wood
and there are external openings to them, a
few drops of carbon bi-sulphide might be
injected, and the openings then closed.
(1) What is the working principle of the
Flettncr rotor ship? (2) Where could I
get full particulars? (3) Id it patented in
Australia ? —7148.
(1) It is based on what is known as the
“Magnus effect.” A wind blowing against
a cylinder is so influenced when the cylinder
rotates that the friction of the cylinder
surface draws the wind with it. On that
part of the cylinder surface where the
direction of the wind and that of the rota-
tion are in accord a reduction of pressure
results while an increase of pressure is set
up in the reverse direction. The reduction
exceeds the increase considerably, and thus
a transverse force is exerted on the cylinder.
(2) See “The Engineer,” 21st and 28tli
November, 1924; “Times Trade Supple-
ment,” 7th February, 1925; and “Engineers’
Index.” (3) Can’t say. You would have
to have a search made at the Patents Office.
I wish to do a am all mural painting on
cement. (1) Any hints on the subject?
(2) How does cement react to, oil paint? —
7385,
(1) To ensure permanence make a solu-
tion cam posed of three parts cheese and one
part slaked lime, and to this add colors
made from oxides of iron. The solution
hardens rapidly and is insoluble in water,
and must be prepared fresh every day. (2)
Oil paint is likely to be thrown off by the
formation of crystals beneath it; and if it
stays on it is likely to develop a specKlea
appearance owing to the unequal absorption
of the oil by the cement. I lus can be
remedied a little by washing the cement sur-
face with a weak solution of sulphuric acid
or a quarter of a pound of ammonia salt in
nine quarts of cold water. _ This is best
applied when the cement is about three
weeks old. For an old weather-beaten sur-
face silicate of .soda is preferable. Dissolve
commercial syrup of silicate of soda in four
times its bulk in water. Apply three coats',
and, after the last is dry, wash down with
clean water to remove any superfluoussih-
cate, as this will effloresce and throw off the
paint.
(1) Does any schooner in the Island trade
call regularly at Brisbane? (2) What is
the value of a working partnership in a
300- or 400-ton auxiliary schooner I (3)
J{ XX 7l Her
for a 200-ton schooner in good order (new
l f s) which has been trading for about
(lT r No. *72) No value at present, as
vessels in the U*d trade are
Only CC °for old-established businesses in
goocf position, (4) A sailing-vessel is of
veiy little value foi tiadin B .
(1) How to fill cracks and holes in worn
motor-tyres. I have tried tyre dough but it
won’t set. (2) Name of a suitable paint for
tyres and also for rims? —7234.
(1) The only satisfactory way is to have
the cracks or holes vulcanised. (2) Excel-
lent tyre enamel can be purchased in pound
or gallon tins throughout Australia, at a
very reasonable price. There are also a
number of reliable rim paints on the market,
Before painting rims all flaky rust should
be chipped or scraped off, especially in the
“clinches” of the obsolescent type of beaded-
edge rim.
(1) Gould a boy of 18 secure a position in
the NCW Guinea civil service f (—.) A.ny
exams, to pass? (3) Any openings at
present? (4) Is there an age limit? (u)
Where to apply? (6) Would a Q'land junior
examination certificate carry any weight ? —
6913.
(1) Yes, if qualified. (2) No. (3) None
that would be suitable for a person of the
age mentioned. (4) Cadets must be not
less than 20. (5) Vacancies are advertised
in the newspapers when they occur. (6)
Yes, but cadets are required to hold the
leaving certificate of an Australian Uni.
Recipe for smoking fish and name of a
» mui- .
1 The fish are gutted (but not necessarily
scaled), split down back or belly, and, if
the flesh is thick, slashed: then they are
placed in brine or packed in dry salt-
best done under cover. Period of cur-
feh ale washed and to drain?’ and
T d - *r.hr;
sawdust of pine, cecai oi < i o >
honeysuckle chips or sawdust are excellent.
Detailed accounts ot fish-smokii)g are con ;
tamed in “Marine Products of bommeree,
by D. K. Tressler, published in New York.
llow to kill clover in a buffalo-grass lawn?
697] .
Appiy sulphate of ammonia as a solution,
11b. to a gallon of water, or dusted on dry
when the plants are wet with dew.
(1) Can a man learn about sheading-
machines in three weeks at Dangar (Icdye s
school? ' (2) Do they teach him to drive
various kinds of engines? (3) Do they give
a certificate of proficiency, or reference of
any kind on completion of the course? (4)
Is there much chance of employment as an
expert? (5) Any books on shearing
machinery available? ( 6). Books dealing
with all types of oil engines and steam
engines? —7s24. _ _
ll) Yes. (2) Ouly Ulster engines,
(3) Yes. (4) Very doubtful. (5) Don’t
know of any. (6) Any of the leading book-
sellers can give you a lengthy list.
Directions for making decorations for
carton pierre? 7400.
Take 21b. glue dissolved in three pints
of water, ilb. flour, |lb. ground alum, and
lib. paper. Tear the paper into small pieces
and boil for 10 to 12 hours. Strain the
paper and beat it if insufficiently pulpy.
Then, the paper-pulp being still hot. add
the glue dissolved and hot, and shake in
the flour and alum and a little fine-sifted
whiting. Pour the whole on to a slab and
beat and knead it well, adding gradually
sifted whiting to the consistency of dough.
A little chloride of zinc will toughen the
carton pierre if too soft. This preparation
can be kept indefinitely. When required
for use, cut off a little of the dough-like
mixture and stiffen with a little plaster by
rolling on a board like pastry. It can then
be pressed into the moulds and allowed to
set Ragged edges should be cut neat and
square and wetted with water to join to the
rti» *“ “LfSouP’r SE3
S th!n “copper wfre XuM be crnbcdM
in the thin rnrta. n Hollow places in the
, rfpS ’ d ” ASTTuS
b,s * puper 10 use
is rnat maae ra». .
How can I silver a mirror? —6sB9. _
To Boz. distilled water, brought to a boil,
add 12 grains silver nitrate and 12 grains
Rochelle salts. Ret it. boil for six or seven
minutes, then cool and filter. A second sola-
tion is necessary. Take Boz. distilled water
and pour a small quantity into a tumbler,
to which add 19 grains silver nitrate. Stir
well until dissolved, then add several drops
of 26 per cent, ammonia and 16 grains of
nitrate of silver, stirring well until dissolved,
Add balance of distilled water and filter
through a glass funnel; stir with glass rod.
Clean the glass with ammonia, and wipe
with wet chamois. Then mix half and half
of the two solutions in a graduating glass,
Stirring well and pour on middle of glass
to be silvered. It will spread over the sur-
face of itself if the glass is laid flat. Leave
it until the solution precipitates.
Brief Answers.
A.J.T.: If the broker had any personal
interest in the shares he sho uld have disclosed the
j ac j. j-Q vendor. The vendor, on discovering the
fact> has a right t 0 repueJia t e the sale M.M.M.:
Jn y ic all illterest on mortgages (which includes
hire-purchase of chattels) has since October 1 been
reduce( j hy 4s. 6d. in the pound, provided the
in terest is not below 5 p.c G.F.D.: A minor may
purc h ase or sell shares. The difficulty arises when
calls are made> fov j s open to him to disavow
the pure h ase . if he does so, the shares revert to
the person or cO . f rom whom they were purchased
by the nl ; nor N.C.D.: (1) You cannot compel
th{J mortgagee to take over the property. (2) The
N s Moratorium (Amending) Act deletes the
covenant by which a mortgagor undertakes to pay
~a tes- Thjs app ji es during the continuance of the
moratorium. Taxes still remain.... 0.M.: You can
sue him for the debt in the nearest Small Debts
Court. If you are successful the debtor will have
to pay court costs. Professional are not allowed.
• • •-CH.: The of per cent should
Branch,
Agriculture Dept Sydney .O.L. : Write Secretly,
toi » s P° int to eczema. Wash dog with soap and
J™ £***
olive oil 6oz. on fo ; three d a ys then
-sh
K. 8.: (1) Sydney Harbor Bridge span is 1650 ft.
(2) 175 ft. clearance under roadway at low tide.
(3) Height of summit of arch, 437 ft. (4) Construc-
tion cost, £6,230,000 including approaches; with
interest, total land resumptions and all other charges,
£9,890,000. (5) Opening March 19, 1932. (6)
Dead weight, 50,300 tons E.H.D.: Mix together
21b. whiting, 4oz. cream of tartar, and lloz. calcined
magnesia, and pass several times through a fine
sieve or coarse muslin. The addition of 4oz. or
less of powdered soap is considered to be an im-
provement. Apply with a damp flannel, and polish
with a soft rag M.K.S.: Fill the pipe, and smoke
down about one-third, or the height to which you
wish to color. Leave the remainder of the tobacco
in the pipe, and do not employ or disturb it for
severa i weeks, or until the desired color is obtained.
When smoking, put fresh tobacco on the top, and
slnobe to the same level. A new meerschaum
should never be smoked outdoors in extremely cold
weather H.V.: The Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning
School, Bourke-street, Waterloo (N.S.W.), will furnish
suitable recipes on request... .8.R.: The Bulletin
was first issued Saturday, January 31, 1880. See
TIIE bulletin’s Jubilee Number (29/l/’30); also
« Mac i eod of ‘The Bulletin’ ” and “ ‘Hop’ of ‘The
Bulletin’” 8.D.: The N.S.W. Sudan Contingent
embarked for Suakin on March 3, 1885 ; returned to
Sydney, June 23, 1885 E.N.: The little or fairy
penguin (length 18in.) is the only Australian species.
They are found from Moreton Bay round to the
Swan River, breeding in great numbers on some of
the islands off the south coast. Antarctic varieties
sometimes reach Tas and the mainland. . V.R
CD A^ust > < 2 > 4 «- , 8 * ;•
ba, '& aia was that J he roses sbould be
at address > you , ha n ve w 1
"<* d »»* w* *“ «* ‘•f 1 ?* 1 ”' *«
7ESSiKrS
Rents Act. On the question of meanness you must
.g.W.R.S. : It is a police offence
Lrjet in a public street, but not on
' la , r .
b reditor P as obtain ' e d judgment and the defendant
fails to comply with it, the Court may order the
seizure and disposal of so much of the debtor’s goods
and chattels as will meet the judgment. (3) The
warrant of execution is issued against the goods
°f the defendant exclusively, but the bailiff is not
responsible for any act done by him under it; his
principal may be. (4) Not where he holds the goods
mere iy a s a bailee without any right of ownership or
pen.... A.C.P.: Do a whole course of exercises rather
than just one. There are many books on the market.
. ...H.S.: Home treatment is likely to prove unsatis-
factory. Consult a skin specialist... .T.A.S.: Grey
ba j rs a t that age are not unknown, but they are not
usual. It is often hereditary. There is no cure....
0.C.; Grey hair is generally a sign of lost vigor
0 f the hair roots and we know nothing, short of
dyeing it, that will improve matters... .8.D.: Indi-
gestion is not a disease but a symptom of some other
trouble. The following is generally used for relief:
Soda bicarb., 10 grains; bismuth carb., 10 grains;
aqua chloroform, up to ioz N.G.S.: Q’land
Agriculture Dept, advises that the estimate is greatly
exaggerated... .R.D.: (1) The tick is an insect,
born in an egg. (2) Carefully examine the dog
daily. If a tick is found, put a little ammonia or
turpentine on it and remove it whole with a
Pair of forceps. (3) Keep the dog away from
bushes or g rass where tlcks are bable to be -
Stimulants may be administered, but treatment once
paralysis has set in is practically hopeless... .J.D.R.:
Wr ite Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney,
S iv ing ful J information... .M.C.M,: A transparent
s lue can be made b Y dissolving white shellac m
10 times its weight of ammonia For a very strong
« lass cement make a paste of 4oz. dry slaked lime,
loz - powdered alum and soz white of egg. Clean
the broken edges, paint the cement on with a
featb< *> and s ?t , tb e object in a box of clean dry
aaad to boldU in P lace u,ltll the Inend . ls f
CR -\ f Th e process is very complicated, and
\ nc l mI Z p ° tat ° ° r , T" , ? olle A T f Z
hydrochloric or sulphuric acid,-treated later with
sad, T carboi A e ’. bone ebar ’ a " d sodwm blsul e hlte ‘
STS:
"f "“ d (?!>»'' 21 ‘U?“ ‘ VloTm
Seii, and d»„l™ i, in the tar. Dissolve the «od»
>? - - ™rV t. the un^rr™
«"eb£'
does no t go to gaol, but on the application of the
creditor a writ of execution is issued to take suffi-
cient of the defaulter’s goods to satisfy the judgment,
(2) Ordinarily the Court allows professional costs,
but not in the Small Debts Court. (3) You are
entitled to what you claimed only. (4) In the
Small Debts Court you could not recover over £3O.
N.H.L.: Write Patents Office, Customs House,
Queen-street, Brisbane... .C.E.R.: A cord of timber
is the equivalent of a Stack sft. high, sft. wide
and sft. deep—l2s cubic feet Crossfguns: The
statiometer used in range-finding works on trigo-
nometrical principles. We cannot discover, from
your description, how those principles are applied
in the instrument you describe... .B.B.: (1) Classi-
fieation G in the Q'land teaching service was
abolished ill 1920. The Department is free to accept
or reject the classification to which you refer. (2)
Since classification G no longer exists, it is impos-
Sible to compare it with classification 111 in Q'land.
....(Many others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G.M. Turnbull
Synopsis : Returning from sick leave,
Jim Huntley, Resident Magistrate of
Aikoroa, Papua, delivers a to
the dipsomaniacal owner of Nataroa
Plantation, Charlie Durrant, on whom
Huntley suspects Roger Calvert,
trader, is battening. It is from
Marian, Durr ant’s young daughter,
whom Huntley met on shipboard
and has fallen in love with. It
tells her father that, as he had always
put her off when she wrote of return-
ing from “down south,” where she had
been brought up, she is paying him a
surprise visit. This news plunges
Durrant, ivho had “gone native,” into
despairing remorse. Bringing him to
the residency, Huntley has him sober
when Marian arrives, and she
docs not suspect his terrible weak-
ness. She too. stays at the residency,
the dilapidated house at Nataroa
having been burnt down, secretly, by
Huntley's young assistant, Freddie
Chisholm. Huntley quells a native
uprising against the poll-tax. This he
knows, but cannot prove, icas caused
by Calvert and Maragi the sorcerer.
Warned by Huntley to keep away
from Marian, who dislikes him, Cal-
vert boasts that everything she and
her father supposedly own is his.
Durrant admits he owes Calvert much
money—how much he has no record.
Durrant, rehabilitated, takes Marian
to the new house at Nataroa. Hunt-
ley tries to reconcile himself when
she calmly accepts Freddie’s devotion.
To Freddie’s disgust Calvert con-
stantly visits Nataroa. Learning the
truth about her father, Marian tells
Huntley she intends to marry Cal-
vert. Her native maid Saroni. Cal-
vert's cast-off mistress, overhears her.
Huntley wonders how to prevent
Marian’s self-sacrifice.
CHAPTER XXIII.
IT was very quiet and still on the ver-
andah. From where Huntley stood he
could see tall sunflowers in the garden
nodding over their carpet of tufted gi’ass;
zinnias and phlox, cosmos and balsams,
speaking of a mistress from another land,
made a l'iotous blaze in the sun and dis-
tilled a delicate perfume.
Saroni had slipped stealthily away. From
Marian there came no sign. He had
thought that when the turmoil in her mind
had died away she would have come back
to him, and together they might have
sounded the sorry business to the bottom.
But as the minutes ticked implacably by, it
was borne in upon him that Marian had no
word for him other than her tearful com-
mand to leave him; that even if she had,
she was in no mood to be swayed by his
cogent arguments.
He took a step towards the door, moved
by a peremptory impulse to compel her
to listen to liim, stood for a second ii-reso-
lute, and walked back to the head of the
steps. Slowly, gradually it bi-oke in upon
him that, after all, he could only argue
with hei', reason with her. Freddie Chis-
holm, armed with a moi’e potent weapon
than the prerogative of mere fi-iendship,
could reproach, accuse, compel. Whei’e he,
Huntley, could only plead with the girl,
Freddie could enforce demands.
Could he? Huntley began to recall
Freddie’s words and Marian’s words,
and all that their words and their
acts implied.. His downcast face bright-
ened. Amongst his doubts and per-
plexities one thing was indisputably
accurate. Marian had given Chisholm the
right to compel her to be true to herself.
If there was a way out, Chisholm was the
man to find it.
Huntley’s cool intelligence told him to
be on his way. He jambed on his helmet,
descended the steps and stepped out into
the eternal blinding sunlight.
He found Chisholm on the pai’ade gimxnd
slapping his athletic leg with a' cane and
watching Sergeant Gibara fining down such
of the poliee as he suspected of putting
on weight.
“The old bird believes in keeping ’em
in good nick,” he remarked to Huntley;
“it’s an education to observe his methods.”
He looked closely at Huntley. “What’s
biting you, old chap? You look like the
very deuce.”
Huntley’s face was thoughtful, frown-
ing. He bit on his lower lip.
“What sort of a mess have you made
at Nataroa?” he demanded. “While you’ve
been standing on your infernal dignity
and sulking like a spoiled kid, Marian has
got herself engaged to that blasted 'chee-
chee.’ What have you to say for your-
self?”
“Good Lord!” Chisholm ejaculated. Then
he gave a short bai’k of a laugh. “What
rot, R.M.! Ai-e you quite ci-azy? Why,
she can’t do that, you know.”
“I tell you she is engaged to the fellow.
Going to marry him. Can’t you under-
stand plain English?” Huntley spoke
sharply, with a hint of irritation in his
voice.
“Rubbish, old man!” Chisholm l-etorted.
And then added with great decision:
“Damn it, it isn’t done; . very defi-
nitely not done, my dear chap.”
“If you choose to be flippant”
.“Flippant! My dear fellow!” Chis-
holm’s voice was pained. There was a sort
of scornful amusement in his eyes. “I’m
simply lost in admiration of the swine’s
colossal hide.”
“You seem to be extraordinax-ily cheerful
about my news,” Huntley said sharply. He
took Chisholm by the arm and steered him
back to the house. “It’s no joke, Freddie.
It’s a damned hideous reality. And some-
thing has to be done.”
“You bet it has!” Chisholm heai'tily
agreed. “To start with, I suggest we pay
a call on the merchant and yank him out
of his pants. No good? Is it diplomacy
you require? Finesse?” Chisholm shi-ugged.
“What an infernal cheek! Don’t you think
it’s a thing to marvel at, R.M.?”
Huntley rapped out a savage word. “Drop
that line, Freddie,” he said. “It leads
nowhere. If it amuses you to be in com-
petition with the sweep”
Chisholm gripped his hand, held it a
second. There was a queer, nieful smile
about his mouth.
“That is unkind,” he said; “I’m as sick
as you are about it.” His voice took on a
purposeful ring, hard lines drew down the
corners of his mouth, there was a sort of
cold fire in his eyes. “Marian can’t be per-
mitted to make such a sickening little idiot
of herself. If I tell you now, old man,
that she shan’t be permitted, will you allow
me to handle the thing in my own way?”
“That’s better, son,” Huntley answered.
He told himself that he wanted only
Marian’s ultimate happiness—Marian’s and
this gay, impetuous lad’s. He began to
derive a curious satisfaction from Chis-
holm’s incurable egoism. If thei*e was no-
thing else to Freddie, he had a rare conceit
of himself.
Nothing more passed between them until
they reached the residency. Chisholm
carefully eased the knees of his immaculate
flannels before making himself comfortable
in a deck-chair. He listened vei’y intently
to Huntley’s story, grinning with satisfac-
tion over Huntley’s highhanded methods
with Calvert, frowning a little over Marian’s
tears. There was an odd casualness in the
questions he put in from time to time, and
Huntley was aware that he was being
appraised with a speculative eye.
“Old Charles has been dipping pretty
freely into Calvert’s nosebag of late years,”
Chisholm commented at the end. “You
know that, of course?”
Huntley nodded. “I’m convinced, though,
that he has been the victim of a most
barefaced swindle.”
“Naturally”—drily. “From what I can
gather, Calvert has been practically running
Nataroa since he came to the country five
or six years ago. I know he has been
doling out the money Charlie requii’ed for
himself and—er—Marian. The balance,
Calvert has been in the habit of retaining
for interest and reduction of principal.”
Chisholm straightened his legs. “The
trouble is that the more Charlie pays, the
further he gets embedded in the mud.
Great stuff, interest! ”
“Marian has told you all this?”
“Marian—yes.”
Huntley frowned. “How much does the
old fool owe?”
“Lord knows. I doubt whether old
Charlie knows himself. I can tell you that
it is a pretty hefty sum—on paper. More,
px-obably, than Nataroa is worth.”
Huntley brooded over the thoughts en-
gendered by Chisholm’s illuminating dis-
closures. Chisholm held high place in
Marian’s confidence. Her own sort, her own
age—nearly. Chisholm could act where he,
Huntley, would be an intruder. Huntley
sighed.
“When is the Maipua expected?” Chis-
holm asked suddenly.
Huntley cleared his vision of a broken
old man floundering in a morass of debt,
and of a pathetic little figure, an aura of
dejection and of misery hanging about her,
yet resolutely facing a grim future with
pitiful gallantry. His heart warmed to-
wards Freddie Chisholm. Freddie would
not let her down. She pleaded more than
Freddie’s help; more, much more, than his
pity.
“The Maipua?” he x-epeated. “To-moi-row
—no, the day after.”
He was aware of an approaching murmur,
growing distinct, footsteps; the boards of
the verandah creaking under a heavy tread,
and Sergeant Gibara’s incisive voice.
“Taubada! Mis’ Huntley, sah! Big
trouble here, sah.”
Both men were on their feet. Sergeant
Gibara was shepherding a shivering wretch,
hysterical with fear and pain, who, when
he saw the two white men, grovelled at
their feet in an attitude of abject misexy.
“A mountain man,” Huntley said, “from
away to Hell; and gone inside, by the
look of him.”
“You look-see, sah.” Gibara’s voice
sounded harsh, gritty. There was a raw
cavity in the terror-ridden fugitive’s thigh,
from which a smear of blood, caked black,
extended to the knee.
Chisholm drew a quick breath. He felt
suddenly sick. For, hanging from the
wound, was a splintered length of reed. He
shivered when the sergeant told him that,
embedded in the already festering flesh, was
a murderous bone-tipped barb.
The houseboys brought hot water, anti-
septics, dressings. With soothing words
Huntley calmed the wounded man, while
with tender fingers he probed for and with-
drew the arrow. And, while he worked,
Gibara put questions, interpreted the
answers, and the fugitive’s story was un-
folded.
He was yet another victim of New
Guinea’s insatiable twin goddesses, Murder
and Outrage; yet another messenger bearing
dire tidings of murder, battle and sudden
death. An age-old feud, simmering between
two mountain tribes, had blazed forth into
open war. Grim death—and worse—was
abroad in the mountains. Terror rode the
ranges by day and by night, the war drums
throbbed a sullen invitation to a Papuan
holiday.
The wounded man, cowering in unspeak-
able terror on Huntley’s verandah, was the
sole survivor of a hamlet that had been
surprised and overwhelmed.
Huntley acted at once and with decision.
Swift runners were dispatched to Aikoroa
to round up carriers; stores were broken out
and made up into forty-pound packs; tents
were overhauled; arms, ammunition and
equipment subjected to a rigorous inspec-
tion.
“When do we start?” Chisholm inquired
when Huntley called a halt.
“Daylight to-morrow,” Huntley answered.
He pulled himself up. It was strange how
easily Marian and Freddie, Calvert and
Charlie Durrant—everything that had
obsessed his mind—had slipped away into
the background of his consciousness. He
was silent for a moment. He seemed to
be interested in the pattern of his toe-cap.
Suddenly he looked up.
“Not so good, Freddie—leaving you be-
hind, I mean.” He hesitated. “Sorry, son.”
A faint flush stained Freddie Chisholm’s
face. His fists were clenched. Huntley
gave a self-conscious laugh, put his hand on
Chisholm’s shoulder and said:
“You’re not just throwing your weight
about, Chisholm? Can you pull little
Marian out of the sickening mess she is
in?”
Chisholm winced, nodded, grinned in a
bleak sort of way. “I’ve told you already
—yes,” he answered, low voiced.
“Then, dear fellow, don’t you think you
should?” Huntley left the sentence
eloquently unfinished.
For a perceptible second Chisholm hung
back.
“I suppose I should,” he admitted reluct-
antly.
He turned on his heel and strode away.
The sky was of that intense blackness
that presages the dawn. There was a stir,
a bustle of life on the parade ground; the
scattered lights of hurricane lanterns winked
from the darkness; equipment jingled and
clanked and the voice of Sergeant Gibara
raising verbal hell sounded deep, exultant.
At the residency a sound of splashing came
from the bathroom, and Huntley’s untune-
ful whistle experimenting unsuccessfully
with an air from the “Belle of New York.”
Pink dawn began slowly to creep across
the eastern sky. Scornful was the voice of
Sergeant Gibara as he lined up the shiver-
ing, heavy-eyed, patently-resentful carriers
in front of the residency; loud were their
complaints as they shouldered the packs
prepared overnight.
Freddie Chisholm appeared, cording his
dressing-gown against the chill of the tropic
dawn. The inevitable cigarette drooped
from his underlip, discontent smouldered in
his eyes.
The dank morning mists that hung over
the forest were fading wraith-like under
the rays of the swiftly rising sun.
“All ready, sah,” Sergeant Gibara an-
nounced.
“Right, Sergeant!” Huntley called out.
“Move off.”
“’Shun!” barked the sergeant. “Lite
torn! Kweek ma’ash!”
The station fowls, scratching industriously
in the compound, raised vociferous cackles,
the carriers shuffled into line; the police
slung their rifles and grinned derisively at
the station guard, and the patrol moved
off, like a great crippled snake, towards
the mist-enshrouded hills.
Huntley gripped Chisholm’s hand. “S’
long, son. I’m sorry, damned sorry, to
leave you out of this.”
“That’s all right, R.M.,” Chisholm brus-
quely assured him. “Cheerio, old man!
And good shootin’.”
Huntley had not made more than a few
yards’ progress after his men when he
halted in his stride, considered a moment,
and slowly retraced his steps.
“In case you may not know it,” he began,
“I should like to mention that included in
the sphere of my official duties is the job
of—er—celebrating marriages.”
“Splendid!” Chisholm tranquilly replied.
“There’ll be a job for you, I shouldn’t
wonder, when you come back to these
parts.”
Huntley reddened slightly under his tan.
Determinedly he shattered the last remain-
ing fragments of his dream and crumbled
them in the . dust. When he spoke his voice
was queer, restrained, though he tried to
make it light.
“My very best, Freddie. I’ll promise,you
a workmanlike job, son; though I’m bound
to say I should prefer you to import a
regular padre from Baramata.”
It was Chisholm’s turn to redden. He
laughed uneasily, shifting on his feet.
“Hold hard, old man!” he expostulated.
“Take your foot off the accelerator, for
the love of Mike! It’s Calvert’s goose we’re
going to cook, isn’t it? Don’t you think
it is high time he made an honest woman
of that bold-eyed jade of his?”
Huntley flung off, muttering something
about a young idiot under his breath.
Chisholm stood without movement for a
time looking after his retreating figure, and
his thoughts, whatever they were, caused
a thin smile, twisted, enigmatic, to flit across
his features.
CHAPTER XXIV.
Oriental rugs, vivid against hardwood
gleaming black, strewed the floors of Roger
Calvert’s bungalow. There were massive
teakwood tables with legs ornately carved,
hammered brass of rarity and beauty,
lacquered ebony from China and Burma;
embroidered silks and flamboyant tapestries;
silver candelabra and copper censers, a
whole armory of barbaric weapons—trea-
sures innumerable from the musk-scented
East. And on the walls, striking an oddly
disconcerting note, was a collection of gar-
ishly gilt-framed colored supplement s
gleaned from Continental journals dedi-
cated to the pornographic.
Calvert was standing with his arms
folded and his legs wide apart. He glowered
at the girl who crouched at his feet,- in-
different to the fear that lay in the black
veiled depths of her eyes, unmoved by the
hopeless panic that dwelt there.
“Your words are foolish words, Saroni,”
he said coldly. “Go, woman, back to Nata-
roa. There was a beginning and now therfe
is an end. Have done with this foolishness.”
“She lied, this sinabada?” Saroni pleaded.
“Tell me that she lied—-you, who are my
man —tell me that she lied and I will go
back to her house.”
Calvert’s eyes narrowed into squinting
slits. “What I have said, I have said.”
There was a deadly determination in his
tone. “Since when is a man slave to his
women? Begone, woman! Have I not told
you that you are become a great weariness
to me?”
The girl made a queer noise in her throat.
Then, with a quick movement, she wound
her arms round his legs and wailed out-
right in sheer anguish.
Calvert was intensely annoyed—and
showed it.
Knowing the shallowness of native emo-
tions, knowing that their groans and their
wails are public and unashamed because
custom demands it, he was not going, to
fall into the error of estimating the depth
of his mistress’s grief by the noise she- made
in advertising it. Calvert knew niggers!
His body stiffened, his face set in lines of
cold, concentrated anger, and, flexing his
muscles for the effort, he threw the girl
from him. She fell backward on her knees.
Deliberately Calvert brushed his fingers
together as though contact with her had
soiled them.
“Then she did not lie to the magistrate,
this sinabada!” Saroni groaned. She looked
up at him with widened, unhappy eyes.
Calvert’s jaw shot out. “It was in my
mind to be generous,” he snapped, “to
dower you with much money against your
marriage with a man of your own skin.
Take care, woman, lest I should repent.”
With a sudden spring, Saroni stood up.
The misery was wiped from her face; she
was beautiful, majestic in her wrath.
“I spit upon you, Calvert!” Her eyes
blazed with withering contempt, her voice
cracked; she shrieked at him, pouring out
a torrent of passionate abuse.
Smarting with anger, Calvert took a
quick step towards her. The girl retreated,
flinging a hand before her as if to ward
him off, screaming at him like a wild thing.
“Get to Hell out of here, you slut!”
Calvert spat at her in English. “By God,
I’ll—l’ll take a lawyer-cane to you!” .
There was a peremptory rap upon the
door-post. Calvert stiffened. Then, silenc-
ing the screaming Saroni with a savage
gesture, he bundled her unceremoniously to
the rear. Then:
“Oh, good-morning, Chisholm,” he said
with a wry twist of his lips. “This is
unexpected. Take a seat, old chap.”
Freddie Chisholm remained standing. He
stared about him with frank curiosity. In
this exotic, musk-scented setting there was a
wholesome look about him; the clean look
that hard exercise and a life in the open
air alone gives to a man.
“You’ve taken me at a disadvantage, my
dear fellow,” Calvert laughed edgily.
“Vicious little animals, these ladies of the
country. But amusing, quite amusing, in
their way. Doubtless, as your experience
ripens, you’ll agree with me that they have
their points.”
Chisholm stared at him. “You ' dirty
little blackguard.” he said very distinctly.


BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
LONDON—HEAD OFFICE:
4 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
Manager: Edmund Godward.
WEST END BRANCH:
17 Northumberland Avenue,
W.C.
&
u.
OS
JO
o
y)
vx
es
Vs
»
CHIEF OFFICE IN
AUSTRALASIA:
?94-396 Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
Superintendent:
George D. Healy.
Chief Inspector:
Palmer Kent.
Paid-up Capital £4,500,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the bank) . . 4,475,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . . 4,500,000
£13,475,000
' f
ALL GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Bank has been established in the Commonwealth for nearly 100
years, and is widely represented throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and, in addition, has a Branch at Canberra, two offices in London,
axjd Agents and Correspondents in all parts of the world. It is, therefore,
in a position to offer exceptional facilities for the transaction of every descrip-
tion of banking business.
Current Accounts opened; Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits for any
amount; Bills discounted or collected and Advances made on the usual terms.
Wool, Wheat and other Produce Bills and Telegraphic Transfers pur-
chased on best terms.
Commercial Credits established by mail or cable, and funds transferred
by draft or telegraphic transfer throughout the world.
FACILITIES FOR TOURISTS.
Drafts, Letters of Credit, Circular Credits and Circular Notes issued,
available in all parts of the World.
VISITORS TO LONDON.
The West End (London) Branch is established at 1 7 Northumberland
Avenue, London, W.C.2, near Trafalgar Square, and is especially equipped
for the use and convenience of visitors to London.
m
m
»
A
m
*,?
“This is our ‘Macson’ Double Acting Piston Pump, a good all-purpose
power pump. We make them in several sizes, from one-and-a-half inch
upwards, with capacities ranging from four hundred to three thousand gallons
per hour.”
“I*ve seen a few makes of this type of pump ; they all look tile same
to me.”
“In general appearance perhaps they are alike, but when they have been
working a while the difference is seen.”
“You mean”
“I mean in reliability, and the length of their working life. There are
at least three features exclusive to ‘Macson’ Pumps. One is the special thick
brass liner in the cylinder.”
“What’s the advantage of that ?”
“Well, it’s so thick that it’s practically everlasting. Other makes have
thin liners that wear out comparatively soon. I will show you the liners in
a moment, and at the same time I will show you the second exclusive
‘Macson’ feature; that is, how the liner, piston and cylinder head can all be
lifted out simultaneously by hand.”
“I can see that that would be handy if any adjustment became necessary.
What’s the other feature you mentioned?”
“The cross bar in ‘Macson’ Pumps is of steel and not cast-iron. Of
course, you know that cast-iron is brittle and liable to smash it it gets a
hard knock. And, let me tell you, these pumps do get some knocks when
they are working on farms or in factories and workshops.
“Then the ‘Macson’ is suitable for factories, also?”
“Yes, it’s a splendid all-round pump. Gives a good capacity against
considerable pressure and is very economical to run. After I show you over
it, I will give you one of our Catalogues, which are full of particulars about
this and other pumps.”
Pump
Chats (No. 1)
McPHERSON’S PTY., LTD., “Pump Specialists,”
51 Bathurst St., Sydney
116 Way mouth St M Adelaide
554 Collins St., Melbourne
532 Murray St., Perth
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
He dragged forward a chair, turned his
back upon the underclad ladies on the
wall, and opened without further preamble.
“What is the strength of this bally rot
the R.M. has been filled up with? Concern-
ing you and Miss Durrant, I mean.”
Calvert’s eyes glinted. He was on guard,
wary. He surveyed Chisholm steadily,
wetting his lips.
“Ah, Marian”
“I referred to her as Miss Durrant. We’ll
continue to do so, if you please.”
“Delightful child!” Calvert murmured.
“A little immature, ignorant perhaps, un-
developed, unspoiled, if you take me;
but” He spread out the palms of his
hands and winked knowingly at Chisholm.
Chisholm emitted a sound that was like
a bellow. He swallowed, choked, and for
a moment considered whether he would be
ethically justified in using his hands. The
impulse died as soon as it awakened. He
took a fountain-pen from his breast pocket,
unscrewed the cap, shook down the pen
and offered it to Calvert. His face was
very red.
“There is a writing block on the table,
I see,” he said urbanely. “Take a letter to
Miss Durrant that I shall dictate to you.
This foolery has gone too far; it has got
to end—here and now.”
Calvert’s poise stiffened. He drew him-
self, teetering, on his toe's.
“You conceited young blockhead!” he
rapped out. “Do you know how little
you matter, I wonder? I’ve put up with
your impertinence and your atrocious man-
ners at Nataroa for a damned sight longer
than I intended—out of a foolish regard for
Marian’s feelings, I may say. Let me tell
you that they are not such as I am dis-
posed to tolerate under my own roof.. Beat
it!”
Chisholm ignored his outburst. “We
have reasons to believe that your attentions
to Miss Durrant are offensive”
■ “We?”
“Huntley and I,” Chisholm explained
gently.
Calvert’s grin was mocking. “That pon-
derous ass!” he sneered. He got to his feet.
“Off you go, Mister Chisholm. Your com-
pany is as distasteful to me as mine is,
I doubt not, to you.”
He threw open the door with a.n osten-
tatious flourish. There was a light of mal-
evolent triumph in his eye. He had the air
of a man who is thoroughly enjoying him-
self.
“I’m afraid I can’t promise you an invi-
tation to the wedding; though I’m willing
to make every allowance for your not un-
natural jealousy. Surely you are man of
the world enough to —damn it, man! Do
you insist upon making a scene?”
“This should meet the bill, I fancy,”
Chisholm said half to himself. He had the
writing block on his knee. He was frown-
ing heavily over something he had written.
“Shut that damned door, Calvert, and
listen.” He cleared his throat. “ ‘Dear Miss
Durrant. On reflection’ —er —‘mature re-
flection,’ ” —he made a correction—“ ‘I have
" been forced to the conclusion that’—ah!
Humph!”
He looked up and regarded Calvert
thoughtfully. “By the way, Calvert,” he
said in tones of mild interest, “I wonder if
you know my brother-in-law”
“Damn you and your brother-in-law, you
impertinent young pup!” There were signs
that Calvert’s self-control was rapidly
evaporating. “Will you go”
“Major Scott-Nesbitt,” Chisholm went
on. “He is Commissioner of Police at”
A whistling breath came from Calvert.
His swarthy face went suddenly pale.
“Selong Tok, you know.”
Freddie Chisholm placed the fountain-pen
on the table with the writing block beside
it. He helped himself to a cigarette from
a wrought silver casket, and tapped it on
his thumb-nail.
“Don’t you think you’d better listen to
reason—er —l suppose I’d better go on call-
ing you Calvert,” he remarked: ' “it’s as
good as any other name, I suppose.” His
voice changed. It became harsh, metallic.
“A matter of opium smuggling, wasn’t it?
And a dead Chinaman with an unexplained
knife in his back? A damned ugly busi-
ness, taking it by and large.” He blew a
smoke ring. “What about it, Calvert—or
Da Costa—or whatever the hell your name
is?”
There was desperation in Calvert’s face.
“It’s a lie!” he muttered. “I don’t know
what you’re raving about.”
“Cut it out, man! I’ve been keeping
tabs on you for months. Doesn’t my name
convey anything to you at all?”
Calvert brushed a shaking hand across
his eyes. His breath came hard. There
were drops of moisture on his forehead.
“Chisholm!” he said dazedly, “Not—
not”
The look of a hunted animal came into
his eyes; his left hand clutched his side.
If Chisholm required any proof of his sus-
picions, he had it now.
“Exactly,” he said smoothly. “I was a
kid when you decided that an out-of-the-
way and unentertaining corner of New
Guinea was the ideal sanctuary you were
looking for. But I’ve got a darned good
memory for faces—even blurred newspaper
reproductions of photographs. You’d
better listen to reason, my lad.” He was
aware of an odd twinge of compassion for
the swaggering rascal he had struck down.
“I’m no bloodhound, Calvert, and your
career in Malaya doesn’t interest me very
much. You have only to reflect, though,
that if I take my story to the R.M. and
support it with a cable I received by , the
Maipua this morning, he’ll make no bones
about issuing a provisional warrant and
holding you for a police escort. As to
whether it is worth your while to try to
bluff it out, you are the best judge.”
Something of the strained look went out
of Calvert’s face. He closed the door at
which he had been standing and sat down
heavily. Chisholm produced a wallet and
took out a sheet of flimsy paper.
“This is from Bill Nesbitt,” he said
quietly. “I sent him a description of you
and a not-very-good snapshot, and asked
him if he knew you.” Chisholm spread the
cable on his knee. “His answer is brief
and to the point; moreover, the reply is
prepaid. Major Scott-Nesbitt says: ‘Yes.
Where is he?—Bill.’ The form of my reply
and my future actions depend entirely upon
you, Calvert. Let me repeat that I’m no
bally bloodhound.”
He helped himself to another cigarette,
lighted it, and waited. Calvert’s head was
thrust forward on his chest. A strand of
lank, black hair lay over his forehead; his
face was a dirty grey and the skin seemed
stretched tightly over the cheek-bones. He
stretched forth a hand, drew it back; then,
with a stifled oath, pulled the writing block
towards him.
“Go on, Chisholm,” he muttered with
great harshness. “You win—hands down.”
For answer Chisholm thrust forward the
draft of the letter he had prepared. There
ensued a silence, broken only by the scratch-
ing of the pen and Calvert’s labored breath-
ing. He signed his name and leaned back.
“What next?”
Chisholm scanned the letter, nodded
approval, and put it carefully away in his
wallet.
“Now, touching Nataroa,” he said briskly.
“For how much have you got your hooks
into Charlie Durrant?”
“Durrant owes me”—a pause—“eleven
thousand five hundred and sixty pounds.”
“I want the dinkum oil, Calvert,” Chis-
holm remonstrated gently. “Don’t be
greedy. You’ve been on a good wicket, you
know; and you’ve had some juicy pick-
ings, I shouldn’t wonder. What is a fair
thing? You don’t want any interfering
auditors to overhaul your accounts any
more than my side does.”
Calvert leaned forward, his forearms on
the table, his fingers interlaced.
“Six thousand,” he said after a while—
“not a penny less.”
“Good! Now write to Charlie and tell
him so. Tell him also that you are willing
to accept through your bankers; and on a
properly registered mortgage, six equal
annual instalments bearing interest at seven
—no, eight—per cent. I’m all for the fair
thing, Calvert; and it’ll do Charlie good
to come down to earth.”
Calvert began to write.
“Anything more?” he asked, when his
second epistle had joined the first in Chis-
holm’s wallet.
Chisholm pondered a while. “No,” he
decided at last, “that’ll be all. I did have
a.n idea that you ought to marry that
woman of yours; but, on reflection, perhaps
she is better off without you. Anyhow, it’ll
bear thinking over.”
He reached for his pen and scribbled a
line on the writing block.
“This is the cable I shall send in by the
Maipua,” he remarked. He stood up and
adjusted the knees of his trousers. “I’ll
wish you good-day, Calvert. Sorry to have
done you in the eye and all that.” He
paused at the door. “Don’t wish to spout
any bilge or anything; but if you’d coijtrive
to be less of a damned nuisance to Huntley
for the future, you’d be doing yourself a
good turn. And—if I haven’t made it clear
—Nataroa is out of bounds.”
Roger Calvert bowed his head. His eyes
were fixed on the scrawled line Chisholm
had left on the writing block.
“Sorry. False alarm.—F.”—he read.
(To he continued next iveek.)
Brigid.
O little lady—on my side!
I feel that you are just delighted
To have fine love at last requited!
O little lady, you are here,
Encouraging with dancing smiles
The girl who loves you, loves you truly,
AVitli singing soul and heart unruly.
Yours are the eyes that dance in pools;
Yours are the feet that nothing schools;
Yours are the hands, so kind, so light,
That lead one, weeping, through the night.
You are a dream, and you are dead,
Yet more alive than those who dread
The perfume of the Rose of Life,
And gouge its beauty with a knife,
Calling it poison, while the gods
Laugh till the brown earth quakes its sods:
Laugh at the stupidness of man,
So funny, with his tidy plan
Of Thus Shalt Thou, and Thou Shalt Not,
While all the time his senses rot
To waste and nothing—Heaven born
As was the rose’s ruddy thorn !
O little lady, you should know
How beautifully flowers grow;
Your little one-time dancing foot
The elemental floral root;
Your eyes as blue as tender air.
And soft like dusk your mantled hair;
Your heart the rhythm of the sods;
Your spirit smiling with the gods!
O little lady, you must know
How beautifully flowers grow
And blow about fair living’s way
Of course you know,
For you are they!
QUEENSLAND.
LLTWELYN LUCAS.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
“Grafter” Kingsley, one of the “charac-
ters” of the Sydney racing game, made no
mistake when he bought High Disdain two
or three seasons ago. Bred in Australia (he
is by Claro-Contempt), but raced in Maori-
laud as a youngster, High Disdain was
brought to Sydney and injudiciously backed
time after time. He looked dog-poor and
ran accordingly. Kingsley got him cheap,
gave him a long spell, brought him back look-
ing twice the horse he had been, and profited
materially. In the autumn of 1930 High
Disdain won four good races (three in suc-
cession) and ran second in the Doncaster
to Venetian Lady ; but for a bit of bad luck
on the journey he might have beaten her.
After that not much was seen of the good-
looking bay gelding till he captured one of
the short-distance events at this year’s
A.J.C. spring meeting. Then he took it
into his head to run some very bad races.
This, in a sense, was fortunate for the
owner-trainer; at all events, High Disdain
got into the Villiers Stakes with Bst. 91b.;
was so little thought of by Cook, the crack
jockey, that he refused the mount to ride
the favorite, Cathmar, and so lightly regarded
by punters that the stable got 14 to 1 and
a bit of 16 to 1 for its money, the closing
price being 12 to 1. “Grafter’s” neddy won
like a weight-for-age horse in lmin. 36-Jsee.
—only a quarter of a second outside the
Australasian record.
Peutheus was favorite in the ante-post
betting—what there was of it —but on the
course it was 4 to 1 Cathmar and fives Pen-
theus, Trevallion (7 to 1), Roley (8 to 1)
and Satmoth (10 to 1) being others in
request. Port Said (20 to 1) and Treval-
lion were together in front most of the way,
and the outsider took all the fight out of
Trevallion. He looked a likely winner till
Darby Munro brought High Disdain along
from seventh or eighth position entering the
straight. High Disdain came right away
from Port Said, the judge making it three
lengths; Pentheus was a fair third, Panola,
Gert: Going surfing, Bert ?"
Bert;"No, Im going, fishing*
Gert -th- idea, of--me
RUBBER FISH ?"
BERT * OH ; THA.TS THE DECOy?
Casque d’Or, Phlare and Trevallion follow-
ing him: Catlimar never looked a possibility.
High Disdain divs. on the 10s. totes were
£8 T9s. and £2 10s.; say, 17 to 1 and 4to 1.
The s.o. machine paid better prices than
McShortodds offered in most of the races.
Dan Lewis began the meeting well by cap-
turing the Hurdle Race with his own horse
Wally K. (9 to 2) and the December Nur-
sery with Treasury (2 to 1), whom he
trains for S. Solomons. Treasury is by
Corban —May L. and is very smart, as wit-
ness the fact that she sped over 5 furlongs in
591 sec.; the runner-up was Arnurna, a half-
sister (by Legionnaire) to Chatham.
Treasury and Spearman were the only favor-
ites to succeed.
“Fours the field” were called on the Holi-
day Handicap, but Spearman’s price short-
ened to 5 to 2, Talkie being at 4 to 1. With
Salvador (10 to 1) the experiment was tried
of riding him in front, instead of at the
rear of his field. It answered to the extent
that he finished a fair third over a distance
that does not altogether suit him; but it
was reserved for Spearman and Gemlight (10
to 1) to battle out the finish, and a desperate
finish it was. Spearman, ridden with whip
and spur by the elder Munro, got up in time
to beat the improved Gemlight by a head.
Talkie came in fourth, as he has a habit of
doing; Inducement’s fifth was rather impres-
sive considering that he, too, was racing
out of his distance.
Three-year-olds continue to bear out this
Page’s prophecy that they would win a
power of races this season. Ranchero (8
to 1), a brother to Panola and Vertigern,
pleased J. E. Brien, who bred and owns
him, with the manner of his victory in a
division of the Novice Handicap; he un-
wound a very fast run over the last bit of
“six,” galloped at the rate of “twelve” to
the furlong. He looks capable of going a
mile at a high rate of speed, or even fur-
ther. Colin Stephen’s mare Wingecarribee
failed badly in this race, but it was. not her
form. It was strange to see Satmoth run-
ning in and being backed for the Villiers
instead of the Highweight Handicap. How-
ever, it is doubtful whether he would have
been good enough to account for Ethics, who
disposed of Ranchero’s stable-mate Rosendo
(7 to 1) and a big field in fine style. In
spite of his Rosehill win the brother to Mag-
netic (one of the beaten lot) was allowed
to go out at 14 to 1.
For the second day of the meeting on
Saturday:— .
Chisholm Handicap: Gloriole; next, Bim
Boy.
December Stakes: Tingalba; next,
Treasury.
Summer Cup: Spearman; next, Salvador.
Trial Handicap: Tenacious; next, Sweet
Valais.
A. J.C. Handicap ; Satmoth ; next, Roley.
4: 4* # 4:
There were pony races in Melbourne on
Saturday for the first time for many years.
The Ascot club had the date, and put on a
£5OO handicap, the distance being “about”
51 furlongs. Kaoota (5 to 1), who has been
lucky in sprints, won from Blematic and
Gracwin in Imin. 6sec., an Ascot record.
In a programme of 12 events there were
seven five-furlong flutters and three (includ-
ing Kaoota’s race) of “about” 51. A lot
of people seemed to enjoy the fare, but many
familiar faces were missing, among them
those of C. B. Kellow and Tindall.
4: 4= 4= *
For Caulfield next Saturday:—
Christmas Handicap: Harry Gavin; next,
Shankara.
Hopetoun Handicap; Farlure; next, Sir
Roy.
4: 4: 4: 4c
“Hotham”: A meeting of delegates from
all the leading racing clubs of Australia sat
in Melbourne during the spring carnival
to consider a way of combating the increas-
ing vogue of “ringing-in.” The result was
an amendment of the rules providing that
no horse except a foal or a yearling may be
entered at any registered meeting unless its
name has been registered—and no horse
is to be registered unless branded. The
committee may grant exemption from brand-
ing for stated periods. A further amend-
ment gives stewards power to fine, suspend
or disqualify any owner, nominator, trainer,
jockey or other person refusing to attend or
give evidence at any inquiry, or who gives
false or misleading evidence.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Pat Appleton(ll.2) lived up to his label
of “the Tasmanian Tiger” when he fought
Fred H’annaberry (11.2) at Leichhardt
Stadium last Friday night. Half, at least, of
a big crowd thought consistent aggression
earned Pat the decision. Attacking from the
first bell, the Tassy ladled out lots of pun-
ishment (Hannaberry’s left eye was almost
closed and his left ear bled badly), and
those who laid 10 to 1 against the visitor
must have had many anxious moments.
After an accidental head-bump to the body
had upset Appleton in the 10th, Hanna-
berry did better, and his fast finish, com-
bined with cleaner punching throughout,
made matters close enough for the contest
to be called a draw.
* * * *
“Tom Cribb”: The latest “world’s cham-
pionship” joke in boxing circles took place
in the Albert Hall, London, the other day,
when Kid Berg was given the junior welter-
weight title on a foul. His opponent was
the Frenchman Marius Baudry, who was
warned about low hitting in the first round.
He persisted in the second, and Berg staged
the accustomed theatricals and was given
the decision. Then the pair walked out,
alternately cheered and hooted by sections
of the crowd, and no doubt fervently thank-
ing Heaven that goats are born every tick
of the clock, for the huge Albert Hall was
packed to the ceiling at fancy prices. One
wonders what the shade of Albert the Good
would say if he knew that the vast build-
ing he intended to be a meeting-place of all
the arts and sciences was now the head-
quarters of professional pugilism in Britain.
The Ins and Outs
On the first and second days of the Test
match at Sydney the South Africans were
outplayed. Batting with wicket and
weather both in their favor, not one of
them shaped like an international batsman,
the side going for 153, of which Viljoen
compiled 37. Vincent, who is in the team
as a bowler, came to light with 31, while
Dalton (21) and Morkell (20) contributed
their mite to the collection. Apart from
Grimmett, who was allowed from the start
to hang up the batsmen, the bowling was
not formidable, though McCabe occasionally
bowled well, securing three of the tail-end
cheaply and ending with 4 for 13. Grim-
mett deserved his figures, 4 for 28, but it
is doubtful whether he or the timorous bats-
men were primarily responsible. Ironmonger
and Wall took a wicket apiece. The Austra-
lian batting was rather dull for the most part
of the first innings, though Bradman livened
matters up towards the close of his 112, his
fourth consecutive three-figure innings against
the ’Boks. Ponsford went early for 5 and
Woodfull plodded along to 58 until Mitchell
took him off Vincent in (he slips. Rigg, after
being missed twice by ’keeper Cameron in
one over, went on to 128, being dashing in
parts. McCabe imbibed the air of restraint
but made 79 attractively, while Nitschke was
also content to loaf on the job until he
had 47 up; all out, 469. Bell bowled like a
Trojan, ending with 5 for 140 off 46 overs.
Vincent (2-75) had the best average. South
Africa’s fielding was below that of the open-
ing matches. The ’Boks started their up-
hill task brightly. With Christy (41) out
it was 1 for 70; then Grimmett and Iron-
monger got among the wickets, and with
6 down for 100 defeat by an innings was
certain.
* -4: * *
The Queensland-Victoria Sheffield match
in Melbourne was remarkable for the per-
sistent no-balling of abo. Gilbert in each
innings by umpire Barlow, who was roundly
hooted. Gilbert last season bowled through-
out the States without his delivery being
questioned. Barlow certainly has the cour-
age of his convictions; he was con-
cerned in the no-balling of South Aus-
tralian Halcombe a couple of seasons back.
Batting first, Queensland made 200, Cook
(44) and the boy batsmen Hansen (30) and
Sides (24) being the chief contributors.
Nagel, who did so well against South Aus-
tralia, took 4 wickets for 45. Ryder was
bowled by Gilbert for double figures, but
the abo. was then taken off, Oxenham,
whose place in the Test team was given to
South Australian Lee, came to the rescue
with 5 for 37, Bensted seconding him with
3 for 28, and the Victorian innings ended
for 156. Queensland’s second knock pro-
duced 8 for 237 (Hogg 47, Hansen 43, Cook
23).
# ❖ ❖ &
In Adelaide, South Australia and N.S.W.
clashed in their Sheffield fixture, and all
hands were delighted to find Vic Richardson
back to form with a dashing 122 in the
home side’s first innings. The visitors opened
the game and had scored 393 when the last
man went. Bill played a sound opening
knock for 44, but R. Nutt, newcomer to
Sheffield cricket,, provided the star turn with
102, made without error. Hird, who did well
for N.S.W. against the Afrikanders, scored
60, and Leabeater, another Sheffield novice,
57. Tobin, Laycock and the veteran left-
hander Carlton, took 3 wickets apiece. None
of the South Aus. regular batsmen backed
their captain effectively, though Tobin fol-
lowed up his good bowling with a handy 47,
the score being 321. Bettington this time
found a length, taking 3 for 56.
!]-. * 4= 4:
“Aigburth” : Dick Tyldesley (B. 16/12/’3l)
has explained his undignified exit from the
Lancashire eleven. He says he got to cross
purposes with the chairman of the county
club because he declined an offer of a £lO
bonus under the lap—the reply to a demand
he made for special consideration in view of
his bowling services. The committee asserted
that special concessions to Dick might “un-
settle” the other professionals and settled
the matter by settling Dick. The latter’s
final comment that he hopes to find another
job in his own county, even though he is not
an Australian, does not lack humor of a
kind
... f . * *
“Rube”: The example of Bradman and
McCabe seems to be producing a steady
crop of infant batsmen from the country,
The Newcastle match in which South Africa
clashed with the N.S.W.. country players
brought to light two: Robinson, who scored
32 in Country’s first innings, and another
16-year-old in Rudd, who batted like a
miniature Trumper in the second until he
was run out at 73. Something ought to
be done to stop this spawning of
champion batsmen at a time when goon
bowlers are a crying need. If Lang is halt
the man he says he is there is a chance
for him here. A man who claims to be able
to pluck millions out of thin air could surely
pick on another Turner and Ferns.
* * * *
“RilW”. Anetrnlin for a
radgS et depa^ S re ral S ZSSSttSSJ
the e market he instead* being? cut
from a Snglc seasoned bit of willow, “it is
made, on the same principle as an aeroplane
propeller, of built-up sections put together
under tremendous pressure. The result is
said to produce a blade stronger and more
resilient than the ordinary bat. For
two years the blades have been tested in
every possible way, standing up to 2000 runs
and remaining in perfect condition. It
sounds all right, but cricketers will wonder
whether the slight softness of the face which
is essential in good cricket bats has been
preserved under the pressure used in making
the blade. The aeroplane propeller, for
instance, has a surface as hard as chilled
gtee l
...
“Sturt”: The “college match” in Adelaide
was a win for Prince Alfred’s by an innings,
the first time since 1904. The school has a
boy named Wright who may do well, if his
head is not turned by newspaper talk about
“the best left-hander since Clem Hill.” He
made 57, and took 10 St. Peter’s wickets in
the match.
“Statis”: Up to the beginning of the
second Test, Don Bradman had put up the
outstanding record of 14 double centuries in
first-class cricket. They are: 452 n.o. against
Queensland and 340 and 222 against V ic-
toria. Against South Australia his figures
are 254; against England, 254, 334 and
232. H'e has punished South Africa to the
tune of 226 and 219, and made 223 against
the West Indies. The others include 220
in the Australian Eleven trial, 236 v. Wor-
cestershire, 252 v. Surrey and 205 against
Kent.
(Continued on page 31.)
“Old Q.”: The Queensland Australian
Rules League finds it hard to make headway
against competition of other codes and has
asked the Victorian League for the loan ot
£5OO to go towards the purchase of a ground.
The Victorians, while sympathetic m the
extreme, have passed the buck to the Aus-
tralian Football Council. That body, like
everyone else, is feeling the pinch of the
hard times, and it is probable that Banana-
land will have to be content with more
sympathy.
* Si: 4= *
Sydney’s historical Anniversary regatta
will come off on January 26, and the long
programme provides for every form ot
aquatic sport save swimming, while there
is a liberal prize list. The sailing events
include races for all ratings of yachts or
sailing-boats, and there are half a dozen
events for rowers and scullers. The now popu-
lar motor speed-boats are also provided for.
* Sic * *
“Main Brace” : Undeterred by the recrim-
inations arising from the last trans-Tasman
yacht race, another is being mooted in Mel-
bourne, the start to be made some time in
January. This time it is hoped that Syd-
ney will be represented, the Morna, Spin-
drift and Hermione being among the craft
mentioned. On the M.L. _ side Teddy and
Aorere, which took part in the last event,
will be entrants, with probably a third to
keep them company. Victorian entries are
not yet out, but skipper Bennell, who first
started the joke, can be counted on as a
certainty. According to the rules of the
Akarana (M.L.) Yacht Club, which donated
a cup for the race, engines may not be used
save in cases of breakdown or serious
danger *
“Shell”: Queensland, keen enough on the
amateur side of the game, sees very little
of professional sculling. There was a change
the other day in Brisbane when Alf Felton,
the A.I.F. sculler who won the world s
championship from the elder Barry on the
Thames in 1919, gave an exhibition spin,
Felton was beaten in a return match in
Sydney the following year in an unsatis-
factory fashion, Barry rowing on after h eltou
had stopped on claiming a foul which was
disallowed by Bill Beach. A pupil of Peter
Kemp’s, Felton had a good record m ms
pre-war days, among those he beat in big
events being Charles Towns, then Australian
champion, and Harry Pearce, father of the
mighty Robert. Felton’s last big race was
against Jim Paddon for the world’s cham-
pionship in Brisbane in 1924, when Paddon
won.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
has decided to ban all white club jerseys.
s j nce they are so easily soiled. The chief
sa ffcrers will be University, which only last
season dropped its famous blue and gold
f or a fl our bag outfit. It is also proposed to
c hange the Australian jersey. This is at
present green with a badge, and clashes with
the Irish and South African colors. As a
team goes to the Cape next year, it is
p ro p oSe d to adopt a gold-colored uniform,
color being claimed as unique in Rugby
football. Why the sky blue with the Wara-
tah badge, which has been worn by the
three Australian sides which have gone over-
understand. No other Rugby nation plays
iVng“» SKlmf
£ u|>, ~ AP, j t, if . „? •_««. 0 f
turns out in hJit. blue and white stupes
tne sa ™ c ' a t
, . „ _ ", , . „ . ,
, ‘Backwoodsman : Even bowls is affected
by the modern urge to change at any cost,
lor a thousand years or more the spheroids
used m the venerable game have been made
of wood lignum-vitae for choice. W ithin
tlie past few years, however, the genuine
woods have been superseded by others
made of varying kinds of composition. It
is claimed for these that they are absolutely
up to standard requirements, and do not vary
with weather or climatic conditions as the
old woods occasionally did. So general has
been the change-over, even by players of the
old school, that a genuine wooden bowl wall
soon be elevated to the dignity of a “museum
piece.” During the latest inter-State matches
an unofficial census was taken of the bowls
used. There were only two or three pairs
of genuine woods, the great proportion of
the many in use being made of one compo-
sition or another.


The Ins and Outs
“Der Jong”: The South Africans’ score
of 117 in the Brisbane Test is by no means
a record for the ’Boks. AVhen Sherwell s
men were here in 1910-11 they went for
80 in the second Test at Melbourne, Tib
Cotter and AVliitty being responsible. Eight
years earlier, at Jo’burg and Capetown,
Saunders and Howell got the side out for
S 5 on each occasion. In the first game
Saunders had an average of 7 for 34, and
in the second Howell took 4 for 18. At
Manchester in 1912 the ’Boks got only 95,
Kelleway, with 5 for 33, being the destroying
angel this time. The ’Boks have yet to
emulate Australia’s record in this direction,
however. At Brisbane, against Chapman’s
men, 66 was the best Australia was capable
of, while in 1896 at Lords all they could
get against Pougher, bowling for M.C.C.,
was 18!
“Gabba”: In spite of the adverse weather
conditions the Queensland cricket heads did
not come out of the South African matches
so badly. The gate takings for the State
match were £843, and this left a profit of
£l3O. The Test drew £3078, and there was
a net profit of £391 after the Afrikanders
had taken out £1244 as their share.
* * X
“Hotham”: Anyone praying for rain in
Melbourne nowadays runs a risk of becom-
ing unpopular with the Victorian Cricket
Association. The last monthly report states
gloomily that only £2OO was cleared from
the State game with South Africa, whereas,
but for the rain, there might have been
ten times that. The Cabbage Gardeners
require to make another £5OOO clear from the
remaining matches in Melbourne to be on
the right side of the ledger. As there will
be two Tests and another game between the
State and the visitors, they should do it
on their heads if fine weather prevails.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The covering-tlie-wicket obses-
sion has bred many strange gadgets. Sydney-
siders will remember a monstrosity which
looked like a cross between a bathing-machine
and a very small second-class carriage, to
paraphrase AV. S. Gilbert. Melbourne has been
toying with a device of much the same sort,
the Victorian cricket authorities having con-
tracted to give £l5O for it. Like the Syd-
ney arrangement, it travels on wheels, but
recent experiments have shown that the
tread of these will have to be made wider,
those installed at present cutting up the
ground. There is only one practicable way
of keeping a wicket from rain. That is to
leave it uncovered and pay a heavy insurance
premium against a downpour. This has
never been khown to fail.
“Old Boy”: The question of where the
flies go in winter is nothing in comparison
with the ultimate destination of the young
cricketers who graduate in the Great Public
Schools of Australia, and, after showing-
exceptional promise as youngsters, disappear,
with a few outstanding exceptions, from the
cricket map. The season just closed in
N.S.AA 7 ’. has disclosed quite a galaxy of
talent, both with bat and ball, in the ranks
of the schools. Batsmen like J. S. AVhite.
of King’s, Falk, of C. of E. Grammar, and
Lees, of Newington, are of exceptional class,
while among the bowlers Bentley, Mead and
Barnes had averages of under 12 runs per
wicket, and there were several others almost
as successful. In England it is rare to
see an amateur cricketer who is not a
G.P.S. product. In Australia it seems to
be the other way about.
Racquet and Bawl
“Iconoclast” : The tennis sensation of the
week comes in the shape of an overseas
cable giving the views of R. A. C. Griffiths,
president of the British Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation, on the general conduct and men-
tality of many of the younger generation of
tennis-players. “Ignorance, thoughtlessness,
lack of manners, swollen head, due to adula-
tion of tennis fans and the fulsome praise
of newspapers” are only some of his criti-
cisms. To add to that terse summing up
of the situation would be to paint the lily
and gild refined gold. It is encouraging,
nevertheless, to find such a high authority
in accord with sentiments which the writer
and others have often aired .in The Bulle-
tin.
* * ❖ ❖
“Hotham”: Close on the heels of an
announcement by an English tennis authority
that tennis-players lack manners, and are
apt to consider themselves superior to the
rest of creation, comes the news that the
Crawfords, husband and wife, threaten to
part brass rags with the Victorian tennis
authorities, refusing to play in the beastly
place again. According to a Melbourne
journal, an umpire had the infernal temerity
to footfault Jack Crawford. Thereupon Mrs.
Crawford appealed to the referee, ITarley Mal-
colm, asking that the same umpire should
not be given charge of any other games in
which she and her husband would appear.
Malcolm very sensibly pointed out that even
Crawfords are not exempt from obedience
to the laws of tennis, and added that if
he arranged for the pair to play under the
offending nmp. they would have to do so.
The fat was in the fire then, but Malcolm
remains unperturbed. A man of iron nerve,
he once acted as manager-chaperon for a
team of Australian women players abroad.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: AA 7 itli the Japanese tennis
team shortly to land in our midst, it may
be as well to remind local addicts of the
game that they are a very hot lot —classed
indeed by good judges as a better side than
that which kicked Anderson, Ilawkes
and Peach out of the 1922 Davis Cup
tourney. Harada lias represented Japan in
the cup on five different occasions, but was
not available in the 1931 series. He has
beaten nearly every crack player of the day,
Cochet, Bill Johnston and Lacoste being
among his victims. Satoh, only 23—-Harada
is 31—won the Japanese singles this year
and is rated first on the Nipponese list. He
was placed eighth in the Wimbledon seed-
ing, but has come on considerably since.
He went well in the French championships
this .season, downing Van Ryn, one of the
best, of the Yanks, but going down to
Borotra, who had to go five sets to score.
Nurioi, youngest of the trio, is 21. This
year’s Japanese ranking puts him in second
place for singles and third for the doubles.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australian tennis
authorities are protesting at being sold the
usual pup which invariably heaves in sight
whenever Australian championships are
staged elsewhere than in Sydney or Mel-
bourne. AA 7 ith the heavy expenses attendant
on the championships, coupled with tlffi extra
trouble and outlay entailed by the appear-
ance of the Japanese side, Adelaide had a
fair right to demand that the other States
should reserve the cream of their tennis
talent for the big meeting. N.S.AV. is the
customary nark. It is sending its best
women’s side to tour Maoriland at the
time of the Adelaide fixture, with the result
that the latter will be robbed of a lot of
interest as far as the women’s events and
the mixed doubles are concerned.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger” : The waning year .saw two
interesting golf fixtures concluded, the caddie
championships of N.S.AA 7 . and Queensland.
The N.S.AV. title was won by Burke, of
Ivillara, who goes in for bold putting. He
never made the mistake, so fatal to bowlers
and golfers, of failing to be “up,” and he
holed some remarkably long shots. Another
player of interest was A. Marshall, who,
though only 15, beat a lot of older players
on his way into the semi-finals. The Queens-
land tourney, the fifth of its kind, went to
E. Anderson, of Sandgate, who beat the
Goodna boy, C. Newman, by 4 and 3 in the
final round of match play. Players in this
FOUR OF THE AFRIKANDERS.
competition must be under 17. The winner
is not yet 16 and the runner-up a few months
older.
* -•:= * *
“Hoylake” : A Sydney player named Gard
distinguished himself or otherwise recently
by playing 220 holes at North Brighton
links, walking 41s miles without stopping
during the somewhat useless performance.
Stunts of the kind are common. Someone
left Brisbane to play a golf ball to Mel-
bourne a few months ago, though he seems
to have faded out after passing through
Sydney. F. G. Tait won a good stake by play-
ing a teed gutty ball from Sandwich to Deal,
sonfe three miles, in 32 strokes, he having
wagered he would not exceed 40. Perhaps
the most famous event of the kind was the
Scottish match in a dense fog over three
holes in 1868. The contestants were Lord
Kennedy and Mr. Cruickshank, and there
was a stake of £5OO per hole. They were
guided by a lantern at each hole, and in
spite of the fog each returned a normal
card for the holes played.
$ * * *
“Brassey”: One of the big N.S.W. golfing
events, the Manly Summer Cup tourney, was
played off on Manly links, the result being
a tie between G. Thompson, of Bonnie Doon,
and AY. R. Smith, the Long Reef player, each
returning a card of 72, with Jim Ferrier,
the State amateur champion, hard on their
heels with a 73. In the play-off Thompson
won with a 75. The pair were level on the
18th tee, but Thompson took a three to
Smith’s four for the last hole and secured
control of the pot for a year,
* * * *
The N.S.AV. professional golfers staged
their annual tussle for the P. G. A. Cup on
the La Perouse course the other day, the
trophy going to V. S. Richardson, who
handles the golfing end of Oldfield’s. The
winner’s total was 149 (74-75), and he
beat a very tough field, only three strokes
separating the first 7 players. Richardson is
noted for his long game, which is practically
faultless, but, like so many of our profes-
sionals, he is very shaky on the greens. This
time he showed considerable improvement
in this respect. J. 11. Cohen, who is now
in Queensland, did not defend his title.
* * * *
“Gleneagles”: British golfing journals
chronicle the death of Thomas Stewart, of
St. Andrews, one of the last of the old-type
professional player-club makers. Stewart
had a world-wide reputation for his hand-
forged steel club heads. His chef-d’ceuvre
was the deck, an iron that is rarely seen
nowadays, save in the bag of some old-
fashioned player. It was a wonderful club
through the green, getting tremendous dis-
tance in the hands of a player used to it,
while its almost perpendicular face gave the
ball a low carry that was invaluable when
playing into a stiff wind. It was, in addi-
tion, a general utility club, being often
used even for putting. Many of the old-
time golfers got their first golfing experi-
ence by being turned out on the links, after a
demonstration of the swing, etc., with a
gutty ball and a deck, and told to get busy.
# t\i ❖ #
“Outer”: The congestion on the golf
courses within reasonable distance of Sydney
nowadays has the State lottery queues in
the selling-plate class. It is estimated that
the private clubs have at least 15,000 mem-
bers among them, while on the public
links like Moore Park it is dangerous to
take a full swing on high days and holidays
for fear of donging someone, the yearly
attendance on Moore Park being over 100,000.
Courses, private and public, are springing
up all over the place, but do not seem to
be relieving the strain. The private clubs
are rushed as soon as the membership lists
are opened, and some of them which have
not yet started play already have long
waiting lists.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: Golfers in general, and
especially those addicted to the use of freak
varieties of American clubs, are reminded
that St. Andrews has ukased that from
January 1 all iron clubs must be smooth-
faced. Any insets or protrusions designed to
apply back spin to the ball are prohibited,
though the line and dot patterns in vogue at
present are not banned provided they do
not present raised surfaces. Incidentally,
the many golfers who have found themselves
unable to master the mystery of the compli-
cated laws of golf, as they exist to-day, will
be glad to hear that the drafting committee
of St. Andrews is hard at work revising
and codifying them. The new laws will be
submitted to golfing headquarters at the
annual meeting of the club in September.
Car and Cycle
“Scorch”: English motorists are interes-
ted in a new type of roadway which is
being tried in London, the street selected
being Connaught-road, which carries excep-
tionally heavy traffic. The base is cement
concrete, and this is covered with bitu-
minous material in which triangular cast-iron
slabs are embedded. The surface of each
slab is covered with little pyramids which
are expected to v entirely eliminate side-slip,
which in the greasy roads and streets of
an English winter is an ever-present danger.
What the tyres are like after a few runs
over the pointed pyramids is left to the
imagination.
:J: t\i *
“Differential”: With petrol at present
prices there will be general interest for
motorists in .some recent fuel-consumption
tests carried out with a Morris Minor
in England. The car was a side-valve
engined chassis with a sports body, and
weighed with the driver llcwt. Top-gear
ratio was 4.11 to 1, and compression ratio
5.6 to 1. On a circular track of 700 yards
circumference, a distance of 94.97 miles
was covered on a gallon of fuel. Average
.speed was 15.5 m.p.h. and there was no
coasting. On a road circuit of 10 miles, the
distance covered on a gallon was 107.4 miles,
but on the inclines the car was coasting.
Speed here was 15.3 m.p.h., the fuel used
being benzole, and the carburetter an S.U.
!jc :|: * =l=
“Kick Starter”: During the past few
weeks there has been quite a back-to-Aus-
tralia movement among the many riders
from this side of the world who have been
exploiting dirt-track motor cycling in Britain
and the Continent. Prominent among them
are Frank Arthur and Max Grosskreutz,
the Queenslanders, who have been unusually
successful on the racing tracks during the
past couple of seasons. Arthur, an ex-
champion of Australia, is captain of Stamford
Bridge track, the most important in
England, and last season won 16 trophies
in addition to cash prizes—a record for an
English season. Grosskreutz, who was
Australian title-holder in 1928, has also
had a good year. There are seven dirt-
tracks operating nightly in the London area
and all of them drawing big gates, so there
is still good money in the game, in spite
of hard times.
s}c V
“Sprocket”: Two of the N.S.W. push-bike
championships were run off at Canterbury
Velodrome the other day, the one- and five-
mile events for seniors. Both provided a sur-
prise, Duncan Gray failing to retain either,
though he scored a second and fourth place
respectively. The mile event went to the
Marrickville rider 11. Pethybridge, who ran
away from the start and beat Gray home
by a length in 2min. dead. Pethybridge
tried the same tactics in the five-miler, but
J. G. Buckley, the Australian road champion,
outgeneralled him and took the race from
his fellow-clubman by two lengths in lOmin.
6sec.
Miscellaneous
“Quarter Butt”: Young Horace Lindrum,
nephew of the mighty Walter, who is en-
gaged in a snooker match with vet'ers n
Frank Smith for the Australian champion-
ship, is showing himself as fast over the
green cloth as his famous uncle, and that
without the nursery cannon to help him in
his rate of scoring. In Sydney last week
he compiled a break of 58 in 2f minutes
and followed that with 34 in lmin. 34sec. A
little later he electrified the onlookers by
downing all six colored balls in 32sec. It
would take the average amateur all thdt
and more to sink one.
:jt * * *
“Spike”: If the cables are correct, Aus-
tralia’s only Olympic record has been
bettered—the 50ft. lljin. hop, step and jump
by Winter at Paris in 1924. The new
record is 51ft. liin., done by one Chuhei
Nambu at the Japanese National Games
at Tokio. Chuhei also carried off the long
jump with a hop of 26ft. 2Jin., which is
two inches better than the previous world’s
best by Cator, the Haitian negro. It may
be all right, but both performances seem
rather extraordinary for the invariably
short and stocky Nipponese.
* # * *
“Fitzcray” : Victorian athletic circles got
a mild shock when H. A. Bascombe, the
Yarraville quarter-mile champion, announced
that he had turned professional. Bascombe
is a first-class runner in his class —he had
a convincing victory over the N.S.W. flier
Golding in the National Games in Melbourne
last year—and was one of the Australian
team which went to Canada for the Empire
Games. He says unemployment has forced
him to join the professional ranks. There
does not seem to be much of an opening,
for the quarter and longer distances are not
much fancied now by promoters of profes-
sional athletics, the 220 being usually the
limit where good prizes are offered.
* # * *
“Stretcher”: • By winning the N.S.W.
champion fours on the Nepean the other
day, the Mosman rowing club added further
lustre to its unique record. This is the
tenth occasion in 11 years that this cham-
pionship has gone to the club, and for 10
successive years it has carried off the club
championship of N.S.W. With the season
half finished. Mosman is 57 points ahead of
its nearest rival, H'aberfield. It is more
than likely that the club eight will be the
one chosen to row in Melbourne for the
King’s Cup in May next, in which case the
crew will miss the closing regattas of the
season, men selected for the big inter-State
event being barred from rowing in club races
for six weeks before.
* * * #
“Hotham”: The motion that the clubs
playing football with the Victorian Associa-
tion be cut down from 12 to 10 (B.
16/12/’3l) was thrown out. An interest-
ing feature of the debate was the appear-
ance of deputations from the councils of
the threatened districts. These urged that
their clubs be permitted to carry on, under-
taking to improve the grounds. District foot-
ball in Victoria is a sacred thing, and is
regarded as a municipal and social asset.
Save for such South Wales cities as New-
port, Swansea and Cardiff, where the Rugby
Union clubs are a matter of civic pride,
writer doesn’t know of any parallel.
sfc s|s : e
“Splash”: Queensland swimming heads
are perturbed at the failure of the Banana-
land clubs to spar up their levy of 6d. on
all affiliated members with the view of build-
ing up a fund to finance Australian swim-
mers at the Olympiad. Only two clubs out
of 30 have cashed in up to the present, and
unless things take a turn the Olympic selec-
tors may pass over the claims of the northern
swimmers. That would be a pity, for in
Boast and Grier Queensland has two men
well worth consideration.


Use CASH'S RIBBONS
for Shoulder Straps
and. this just
CANT happen
V/
S*
K
Cash's Ribbons are most
durable, and never break
or fray, once threaded,
you don't remove them
from the Garment—as
ď
IWashing RIBBONS!
look like new after repeat
ed washing. Made in
daintiest fadeless Pastel
Shades, with Brocaded or
Floral Effect in. various
widths
Ask your Draper
.for Cash’s.
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond Melbourne.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S chief theatres.
° J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: FLORODORA.
(Commencing at the MatinCe on Saturday).
CRITERION:
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT
PANTOMIME.
|. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
PANTOMIME.
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
KING’S THEATRE: AS HUSBANDS GO.
RADIO B BATTERIES
0< TORCH REFILLS ’
?\(eu) esfyeiier' ••• a ' ers '
Public Notice.
LAUNDRY WORK.
OPECIAL LOW PRICES FOR QUANTI-
° TIES. INQUIRIES INVITED FOR
CASUAL WORK.
NU-MESTIC LAUNDRIES, LIMITED,
BAYSWATER ROAD, RU SHCUTTERS BAY,
SYDNEY. FL2666 (5 lines). ■
Missing Friends. -
JOHN CHARLES McKNIGHT, formerly
J of Dunedin, New Zealand, is requested
to communicate with IRWIN & IRWIN,
Solicitors, Moray Place, Dunedin, New
Zealand.
IWI ARKS. —If JOSEPH MELBOURNE
MARKS, now or formerly of Sydney, or
his children, will communicate with THE
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY, LIMITED, of 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne, they will hear of some-
thing to their advantage. - -
LjfENRY STEPHEN TEMPLE, formerly
** of South Australia, Calligrapher, aged
about 77 years.
Will the abovenamed, or any person know-
ing his whereabouts, kindly communicate
immediately with the undersigned.
Messrs. GUN & GUN, Solicitors,
14 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
South Australia.
A WOMAN'A
LETTER
Tennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life
Christmas-bush and -bells have come into
the city in greater armfuls than ever since
the law threatened to exterminate the van-
dals who threatened to exterminate them.
There is still much looting in the native
scrub; but the looters at least go into the
most inaccessible places. And the colorful
wealth in the barrows is not all plucked
outside the law. Following the official
thundering against wildflower-picking in
open places, hundreds of landowners began
cultivating the native treasures; and it
doesn’t take a large allotment to grow a
fine crop of Christmas-bush. French’s
Forest, a few years ago almost wholly
unenclosed, is now dotted with small selec-
tions. many of them largely devoted to the
shrub.
The Christmas-bush is very rich in color
this year in gratitude for two lush years.
But the flame-tree, most beautiful and most
erratic, has been sulking through this
flowering season. It has been denied the heat
which its soul craves after.
One astonishing thing about the political
washing-day is that scarcely a woman rolled
up her sleeves to it. In a published list of
81 speakers on a recent morning there was
but one of the sex that knows most about
the cleaning of linen. Who wanted to clean
linen, though, when there were beautiful
handfuls of soapsuds and gallons of dirty
water to chuck at a rival?
Only two women joined in the campaign
as candidates, both S. Australians. Neither
got within even clawing distance of the
bacon. Among this southern sisterhood of
States S. Australia led the way with female
franchise, and Catherine Helen Spence took
the political platform in Adelaide 40 years
ago—in days when woman, if she spoke in
public at all, wasn’t expected to do more
than deal severely with hard drink. Yet,
queerly enough, no woman has ever man-
aged to get inside the S.A. Parliament or
to represent the State in a national chamber.
Earl Beauchamp’s Christmas card for 1931
is a beautiful reproduction of Edward Clif-
ford’s portrait of Lady Mary Stanhope,
Countess Beauchamp, 1844-76. The ances-
tress must have been a ravishing beauty, with
her clear-cut nose and chin —notable features
of the Beauchamp family still. This Letter’s
greeting came from Hong Kong, and tells
that Lord Beauchamp is on a roundabout
sea trip to Sydney for the opening of the
Bridge. “People were all so kind to me last
year that I could think of no better place
to go when ordered rest by doctors from
work and worry.”
This Letter took the merest glance at
Randwick on Saturday. What with the
elections and the job of cunningly tying up
Christmas parcels to make them seem as
important as in other years, the gees failed
to hold the attention. The stands were
neither vividly froeked nor densely popu-
lated; but you should have seen the flower-
beds—they alone were worth the tram fare!
A . small hat crowned almost every head;
they were set at the most attractive angles.
Mrs. Noel Heath wore her sapphire tricorne
above a frock of sky-after-rain blue; Helen
and Philippa Stephen were attractive in
blue and white and honey-colored raiment
respectively; Betty Macarthur Onslow wore
cool brown and white. Margaret Hagon,
in black and white, and Janet and Barbara
Knox and Audrey Hordern were other well-
knowns trying to collect a bit off the horses’
) moves for their Christmas stocking.
Christmas holidays haven’t been as popu-
lar as usual with schoolteachers outside the
Slate service. Dozens of them know there
will be no blackboard for them next term.
Several well-known schools are being kept
open only by the grace of headmasters and
others who are carrying on without pay;
and there are not many of the big boarding-
schools that haven’t closed at least one of
their “houses.”
Hundreds of teachers met in the Educa-
tion Gallery on Saturday night to cheer
Mr. W. J. Elliott, the retiring chief
inspector of secondary schools. His circle
of friends is one of the largest in Australia;
to‘ how many tens of thousands of pupils
and ex-pupils lie is knowp no' one can even
guess. Peter Board and G. R. Thomas, a
past and present Director of Education, were
the evening’s spokesmen.
Harry Dangar’s straight legs and Mar-
garet Honey’s freshness were great factors in
the success of a performance of “Quality
Street” last week. Social success was secured
before the plan was open two hours. Dari-
ing Point and such-like suburbs bought
tickets with vigor, and a Saturday matinee
had to be added to absorb the clamorous over-
flow. The Forest Lodge Day Nursery bene-
fits, and Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax and Alexander
Gordon’s lady, who were the driving force
on the committee, were there in spirits as
good as their frocking.
Harry Dangag's mother was in the audi-
ence, and so was Mrs. Rodney Dangar, with
sister Bea McDonald and the Clive Dangar
girls. Margaret Fairfax, who danced very
fresh and fair in the ballet before the play,
came down into the audience later on. The
Governor and Lady Game, with their youth-
ful covey, were present: daughter Rosemary
walked the boards and the boys walked the
aisles. Aide Royce Shannon was there to
applaud fellow-aide Gifford, who appeared
as a recruiting sergeant. Jean Cheriton, the
principal of Doone, whose pupils were
responsible for the performance, was in
vellum chiffons and looked like the inspira-
tion of a Shelley poem. She confided to this
Letter that she will spend her Christmas
in Lewisham Hospital.
“Whenever I came to the city,” a Christ-
mas visitor told this Letter last week, “you
used to make my feet ache. Now you’ve
turned to my head. You haven’t an idea, I
suppose, how much noisier you’ve got. I
used to sink on to a seat on one of the
ferry wharves at the Quay with a blessed
sigh of relief; everything here was so peace-
ful. Now a loud-speaker roars at me to
use somebody’s jelly-crystals or be sure and
Vote No. 1 for Mr. Hughes. And there’s rhe
same racket in the streets —loud-speakers
in shop windows and doorways; and where
there’s not a mechanical loud-speaker there’s
an assistant crying his master’s wares. You
wouldn’t notice it, perhaps, because it has
stolen upon you; but, believe me, your
Sydney threatens to become nothing but one
great noisy, vulgar Paddy’s Market.”
Some of the schools almost abolished
prizes this year and handed out certificates
instead. So the pendulum swings. For years
there has been almost a competition among
them, each straining to beat the other in the
magnificence of its prizes, most of then
given by people whose youngsters were or
had been at the school. St. Juniper’s silver
cup for the senior tennis champion last year
was lOin. high; and some daddy or other
was implored to see that the rival school’s
cup this year was lOJin. upright. It was
a dreadful atmosphere of snobbery in which
to bring up children —girls especially—and
it is good to know that the daddies have gone
on strike.
The Crown-street Hospital for Women
can’t complain that the modern girl isn’t
just as much of a ministering angel as the
creature extolled by the poets of old. Mrs.
T. McCann, for instance, during the year
has done the whole of the cutting-out for
the linen auxiliary, and Mrs. T. Gillespie
has made up 500 garments in her own home.
In 12 years the hospital’s district committees,
entirely run by women, have raised over
£6OOO for the benefit of the sick and hard-
up patients.
Everyone who met poet Henry Lawson
remarked on the beauty of his eyes, and
everyone who meets his daughter, Bertha, is
struck by the
haunting
charm of hers.
The Bulle-
tin photo-
grapher has
done justice
to them in
this picture,
which was
taken when
Bertha was
telling as
about the
Book of
Memories of
her father, con-
tr i b uted by
old friends and
admirers and
compiled by
her and Pro-
fessor Le Gay
Brereton. Its
title will be
“Henry Lawson —By His Mates.” It is a
great testimony of friendship, and Henry’s
family is very proud of it. The proceeds
from its sale will be used for the practical
assistance of Australian writers, and will
help to build up a memorial literary fund.
Which will please Henry more than having
his statue in the Domain.
Even if the ice that every breeze has
been slipping down a poor girl’s spine the
last few weeks doesn’t melt, the seaside
places promise to do a roaring trade over
Christmas. The explanation is that lots
of people haven’t the cash to seek holiday
places far afield, and the shack at the
beach is being put in readiness for the
owners or to let to others. Palm Beach
promises to be bright and gay; so many
house parties are going into residence that
the place will be as like Cowes when the
King is racing his yacht as. local society can
make it. But these house parties aren’t such
an expense to the host as you’d think. In
lots of them the only free thing the guest
gets is the invitation. They are run .on
community lines; each pays his whack,
especially of the drinks.
Last week the Reggie Staffords, of Llan-
gollen, up Cassilis way, opened their 30-
yards-long swimming pool with a cocktail
party. To this all the district motored over,
and the grounds soon looked more like a bit
of the Lido than a section of the grazing
country on the edge of the prickly-pear. The
pool is by the power station, near the house,
and is shaded by some grand old peppers.
Until the Staffords got their waterhole, the
McMasters, of Dalkeith, owned the only
private swimming baths in the district. This,
in addition to the weekly talkie-show every
Saturday night at Dalkeith, made them so
popular that their neighbors for miles
around are subscribing to a novelty in th :
shape of a book, in which each family’s
name, beautifully lettered, occupies a page.
The 40 or 50 pages, bound in dull green
Morocco covers gold-tooled and -clasped, will
have a foreword wishing the McMasters
health, wealth and happiness. The idea was
Mrs. R. Dangar’s: the binding is by Wal
Taylor.
Harry Dangar at the moment is weighing
the charms of Art versus Stage. He has been
offered a part in “The Barretts of Wimpole
Street.” He has a tiny corner of the Gros-
venor Galleries screened off, and to give an
air of space has a long window flung wide,
the opening protected with three steel bars;
below these, about the floor level, a wide
green window-box stretches out, moored by
strong brass chains. At present he is paint-
ing a large canvas of the Quay in the days
of the crinoline, with passengers waiting for
the ferry.
A children’s national theatre has long
been Fay
H'ornby’s am-
bition, and
midway
through last
year she
started on its
foundations.
The idea is to
develop taste
for the drama
and poetry
in the very
young. On
the first Sat-
urday of every
month a play
for children —
in which all
the kiddies’
parts are
taken by kid-
dies—is pro-
duced at the
Aeolian Hall.
So far plays by Hans Andersen, Oscar
Wilde (whose fairy stories are among the
most beautiful written by any author) and
A. A. Milne have been produced, and the
success has been so decided that Miss
Hornby has booked up her theatre for next,
year. May Moore made the picture.
Oswald Gheeke, whose uncle was Judge
Cheeke, arrived back in Sydney by the
Ormonde. Uncle was the only man who ever
was successively police magistrate, District
Court Judge and Supreme Court Judge.
Oswald is a cousin to John Dailey; William
Bede Dailey, Chief Justice Martin and Alfred
Cheeke all married daughters of “Old Bill”
Long, the racing M.L.C. His mother, a
Sydney belle of the days when Wentworth
gave parties at Vaucluse House, came back
to Australia a few years ago, after a life-
time spent abroad, and by a curious chance
was stricken with her fatal illness when
living in a cottage at Darling Point, set in
the middle of what had been the gardens
of her first home as a bride. Oswald plays
golf and tennis and billiards and chess, but
is not above doing a bit of embroidery in
the fashion of the moment among “the
gentlemen of England.”
Of the seven writers of this Letter since
the founding of The Bulletin 50-odd years
ago the only one not living is the brilliant
“Sappho Smith,” and she died in little more
than girlhood. No fewer than five of the
other six were at the Women Writers’ lunch
to Mrs. William Macleod, who was one of
them. Mrs. Fotheringhame, Mrs. Baver-
stock, the present writer and her predecessor,
“Vandorian,” cheered the remarks of president
Mrs. Liddell on Mrs. Macleod’s book,
“Macleod of the Bulletin.” (Mrs. Creed —
Louise Mack —was the absentee.) Others
honored at the lunch were the A. B. Cole-
man couple and Mayoress-elect Mrs. Walder.
Christmas-bells, tall as guardsmen, listened
in attentive clusters to the speeches.
For her final party Mayoress Jackson in-
vited into the civic drawing-rooms the artists
who had generously helped her through the
year to raise money for charities. A pro-
gramme in which two sopranos, two con-
traltos and two tenors took part without the
slightest trace of professional jealousy was
something to wonder at. It was almost un-
natural, but the Christmas spirit is abroad
in the land —you could hear it any night
last week by just listening in. The rooms,
comfortably filled, were radiant with roses
and carnations and massed hydrangeas.
That consistent friend of the musician
the Queen Victoria Club held its Christ-
mas party last week, and for the afternoon
the ballroom of the Arts Club was decked
with pink and blue hydrangeas. These and
the golden lights turned the long room into
a pleasant place for the chatter and laugh-
ter of nearly 150 brightly chiffoned and silk-
clad guests. Lady Game, in almond-green
frocking, came to cut the cake, and president
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener did the honors, in
her favorite lobelia blue.
Doris Fitton’s Independents gave two
charity performances last, week in addition
to their own Saturday night, and on each
occasion the Savoy was crowded. The
N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation Relief Society
was responsible for selling the tickets in
aid of the Stewart Preventorium (the home
for nearly-sick kiddies) at Curl Curl. Mar-
garet Swan, who was president of the com-
mittee, had much to do with the financial
success, and Director of Education Ross
Thomas and his wife were front-seaters.
Possibly the last chance Sydney will have
of seeing Keith Bryant’s works on exhibition
is his present show with. Lloyd Reds at the
Grosvenor Galleries. Keith, an Englishman
who has been in Sydney for about six
months, goes off to Cairo as a at. instructor
in the Technical College.
Voluntary exiles returning till ~ the
exchange hasn’t such a seasick effect on their
incomes are Mrs. Knight, who was a Ben
Osborne, and Mrs. Kell, whose father was
known in Old Sydney as handsome Charlie
Lett. The Roland Kitsons are coming in
the new year, but that’s because he is a
director of Dorman Long.
Queensland’s quota:—
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went to the speech
day and distribution of prizes at the Brisbane Boys’
Grammar and the Girls’ Grammar, Gregory-terrace.
Stuart Stephenson and Kathleen Lilley received
them at the respective institutions.
Thomas Arundel Everett, son of the A. W. Everetts
of Guyra (N.S.W.), married Nancy, daughter of the
George Browns, Kholo, Windemere-road, Hamilton, at
St. Augustine’s, Hamilton. The bride was in ivory
embossed chiffon over cr6pe romaine, and wore a
Limerick-lace veil with a coronet of orange blossoms.
Miriam Brown ’maided in shell-pink embossed
chiffon. The reception was at Kholo, the wedding
breakfast being served in a marquee on the lawn.
St. Mary’s, Kangaroo Point, saw the wedding of
Doris Zoe and W. T. Bennett. The bride was in
magnolia bridal satin, with a veil of ’broidered
Brussels-net. Joyce Linley, in flame-colored georgette,
and Daphne Linley, in coral, ’maided.
The Dickens Fellowship decorated All Saints' Hall
for their Christmas party. The joint hostesses were
Mrs. Agnew Jackson, who wore a beautiful robe and
some rare old lace in the r6le of Lady Deadlock,
the Philp lady, in modern orchid mauve, and Mrs.
A. J. P. Green, in black hat and scarlet feather, as
Mrs. Boffin. Dr. Cumbrae Stewart presented
Sergeant Buzfuz in a diabolical mask, and Mrs.
Cumbrae Stewart, as a charming Mrs. Dickens, wear-
ing some hundred-year-old jewellery, a puce gown
and old lace, helped to welcome the guests, among
whom were the Chief Justice and his wife. Oranges
and lemons, Sir - Roger de Coverley and other old-
world dances were indulged in. Plum pudding and
mince-pies were among the supper dainties.
J. P. Burke married Doreen O’Sullivan in St.
Stephen’s Cathedral. The bride was in pastel pink,
with a veil of tulle and lace. Mollie Burke, : in
buttercup, and Erin O’Loughlin, in Madonna blue;
’maided; Margaret Rooney and Marie O’Sullivan
were trainbearers and Doreen O’Sullivan was flower
girl. The reception was at the Carlton.
Mrs. Sydney Robertson gave a bridge evening at
Kanowna, Green Slopes, in honor of Jessie Robertson,
who is marrying Eric Black, of Maoriland, this
week. Roses and hibiscus decorated the lounge.
The bride-to-be was at one time secretary to Gov-
ernor Richardson, at Vailima, Samoa, near R. L.
Stevenson’s old home, and she has many friends in
Australia.
George Sorlee has a Christmas pantomime, “Mother
Grundy,” at His Majesty’s, with Yvonne Barnard
as principal boy, and Eva Webber as principal girl.
Arthur Morley wrote the words and the enter-
tainment spreads over four hours of infinite variety.
Mrs. J. J. Buchanan, who remembers Brisbane’s
pioneer days (and thinks we were all happier then),
has been keeping her 82nd birthday. Her memories
go back to the time when water had to be fetched
in wooden buckets from the site of the new City
Hall, and a sentry paced Edward-street, near the
then gaol, crying ‘‘Ten o’clock and all’s well.”.
After Christmas, Sir John and Lady Goodwin will
take up their abode at Woodlands, Stanthorpe,
Walter Pike’s late residence. It is on the Warwick-
road, about a mile and a half from Stanthorpe, and
overlooks the Agricultural Society’s grounds and
the golf links. Grapes and all summer fruits abound,
and there are masses of flowers.


Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causks Jurisdiction.
To LEONARD JOHN McKENNA formerly of
Launceston in Tasmania Laborer.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of Eva Wingfield
McKenna for dissolution of her marriage with you
on the grounds of desertion TAKE NOTICE that
unless on or before the Twenty-third day of January
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-two you cause
an appearance to be entered in the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart to answer the said Petition AND unless
you attend at the said Court in person or by your
Solicitor at the hearing of the said Petition the
Court will proceed to hear the said charge proved and
pronounce sentence your absence notwithstanding.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Deputy Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
JAMBS EDGAR HERITAGE (Martin and Hobkirk,
Shields and Heritage, Solicitors), of 55 Paterson
Street, Launceston, in Tasinania, Proctor for the
Petitioner.
CLIVEDEN MANSIONS
EAST MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
RESIDENTIAL FLATS.
Furnished and Unfurnished.
Telephone: J1184.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
One* third of Queensland's
Entire Population,
♦
In Greater Brisbane
2thc (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* * *
Fou can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from :
QTfte Brisbane Courier*
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
•Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ‘Phone F 3908.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
■pHE Far West, beyond the Darling, produces
the best wool in the world; the best
lead in the world; the best zinc concentrates
in the world; the best people in the world ;
and the best provincial daily newspaper in
the world so far as we know ! That newspaper is
“THE BARRIER MINER.”
There may be a better somewhere, but WHERE
IS IT?
And now we offer to everybody the Best
Wishes in the world for a Happy Christmas
and New Year, 1932.
THE MAGIC
OF
GOLD!
Western Australia’s Record.
Largest monthly output for 11 years.
The fact that November's gold yield for
Western Australia is the best for 11 years,
makes bright reading. The output —53,8690 z.,
valued nominally at £228,823, but in reality
substantially more—was 20,1610 z. in excess of
the yield for November of last year, and
brought the 11 months’ production to 461,356.0 z.,
worth with exchange premium, approximately
£2,000,000. With another month to go the
yield is an improvement of 44,9870 z. on the
whole of last year. November yield was the
best since December, 1920, when 53,9160 z.
were produced, although the value of the latter
was a long way short of that of the gold just
produced.
DON’T EXPERIMENT IN DOUBTFUL
TERRITORY WITH YOUR ADVERTISING.
CHOOSE A PROSPEROUS MARKET
AND USE THE PERTH
jStttitav tSUntff
for your 1932 advertising campaign.
BIG IN SIZE, CIRCULATION AND OUT-
LOOK —IN FACT, THE IDEAL PAPER FOR
THE ADVERTISERS.
Melbourene
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
[?] C[?] 800[?]
Buckley e-Nu[?]
[?]
Election day passed off very quietly in
the city. Even the officials at tne voting
booths seemed to be having a dull time, and
in some places they developed pernicketyness
concerning the way in which ballot-papers
should be folded. At the theatres and pic-
ture houses results were shown at the inter-
vals, and in private homes and boarding-
houses there were gatherings around the
radio that in most cases didn’t break up till
the Sabbath morn. Cars used for election-
eering wore, instead of the huge calico signs
of earlier years, a neat concise little legend
posted on a window, such as “Bruce for
Flinders.”
The George Russells, of Edzell, Toorak,
made a double event of the debut of their
daughters Ruth and Mary, who have lately
left Toorak College. The coming-out party
was staged at their home, the hostess wear-
ing a gown of black velvet. She was aided
by Mr. Russell and by their eldest daugh-
ter, Mrs. R, Lawrance, whose attire was
black chiffon. The debs, waved feather-fans
over their white gowns. The guests were
mostly school friends of the young people.
There was a dance, attended by about 100,
at Mrs. A. E. Kimpton’s home at Malvern,
to help the Women’s Hospital. Peggy
Finkelstein, vice-president, in blue satin;
Lesley Buteliart, hon. sec., in Patou pink;
and Abbie Dynon, hon treas. of the Toorak
junior auxiliary, gave their support to the
hostess, whose draperies were black lace.
Miss B. Kimpton was there in black chiffon.
The nursing staff of the Victorian Eye
and Ear Hospital staged a dance at the
nurses’ home in a setting of gorgeous flowers.
The superintendent, Miss L. Jones, was
present, also Dr. Butchart, medical super-
intendent.
The Anthonians, young workers for St.
Anthony’s Home, celebrated their success-
ful activities during 1931 with a dance at
the Rex. Lucille Meehan, the president,
wore mushroom-pink lace with a fur-deco-
rated velvet jacket. The vice-president, Mrs.
P. L. Coleman, was in frilled taffeta of the
hue known as sun-kissed. Alma Mabous, in
a chiffon gown patterned in purple and deep
pink roses, shared secretarial duties with
Nan O’Callaghan, who danced in white satin
and tulle. Another vice-president, Moya
Kenny, sported scarlet chiffon. Mrs. F.
Coffey came along in black satin. Com-
mittee members wore wristlet posies of pale
blue and gold flowers. Some cabaret turns
and the distribution of quaint novelties were
features of the evening.
A bit of linen # for the casualty depart-
ment of the Ilomoepathic Hospital was the
recognised entree to a dance engineered by
Mrs. F. B. Suhr, Mrs. J. N. McNicol lend-
ing her home for the hop. Mrs. McNicol,
who wore black satin, was aided by her
daughters Mrs. Frank Beavis and Edna.
Mrs. Suhr’s gown of flowered chiffon was
allied with a floral necklet in matching tints.
Jean Lewis and Lena Warland sang.
A successful Christmas party was that
given at Scots’ Hall by the Air Force
Officers’ Wives and Mothers, of which
coterie Flight-Commodore Williams’s wife is
president. The guests were the sons and
daughters of deceased officers of the Flying
Corps.
The V.A.T.C.’s race meeting at Caulfield
for the benefit of the unemployed was
marred by weather which prevented an effec-
tive dress display. Attendance was good for
an off day, and the Lud Mayor showed his
sympathy with the cause by putting in an
appearance for a while.
One of the busiest women in Melbourne
during the past month looks out of this
window. She
is the widow of
knight Henry
Weedon, Leg.
Councillor and
a one-time
laid Mayor of
M e 1 b o u r lie,
who died in
1921. Having
been actively
associated with
the A.W.N.L.,
which is a
sort of poli-
tical relation
of the N.C.W..
for the last 22
years the
Weedon lady’s
knowledge of
politics is ex-
tensive, Her
services have
been in con-
tinuous demand to address meetings or to
canvass in favor of U.A.P. candidates,
S. M. Bruce being one of those she put in a
good word for. The W.N.L., club of which
she is president, is the lady’s big interest.
Among the institutions she helps is the Vic-
torian Eye and Ear Hopital.
At the first social gathering of the lately-
formed Legal Women’s Association about 22
Portias met for dinner at the Lyceum Club.
Pink hydrangeas in masses were about the
room and pink sweet-peas and snapdragons
were reflected in the glass-topped tables.
Mrs. R. E. ITain, president of the associa-
tion, led the speechifying, followed by Anna
Brennan. Mrs. G. O. Reid (Beatrix 'McCay
that was) and Mrs. Joan Rosanove spoke
for the Bar, and Erena Gellatty and Mrs.
E. F. Allan for the associates. Flos Greig,
who was the first woman to practise law in
Victoria, and was responsible for the forma-
tion of the-association, was out of town, and
wired her good wishes and apologies for
absence.
Lud Mayor Smith linked up with the
newsboys, joining their Christmas revels and
handing out prizes won in the different
crafts and subjects taught at night school
at the Newsboys’ Club —there was even a
reward for Sunday-school attendance. The
lion, sec., Edith Onians, was there watching
over her large flock.
The children of the R.V.1.8. had a whole
day of Christmas partying, the money hav-
ing been gathered by a series of dances
staged by the Malvern Auxiliary of the
institute led by Mrs. J. Frost. Mrs. J. L.
Carnegie, wife of the president, gave out
the prizes for proficiency in various
branches of schoolwork, and Mr. Carnegie
expressed appreciation of the work done by
the superintendent and secretary. S. W.
Hedger, the matron, Mrs. A. G. Briggs, and
the head-teacher, H. E. Finlayson.
Elaine, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Edgar
A. Barrett, looked charming in deep ivory
satin and old lace when she became Mrs.
Keith Morrison at St. John’s, Toorak.
Alison Grant and Pat Fretwell, attendant
’maids, were in pale-green organdie with
matching tulle caps and armfuls of pink
water-lilies. A wee girl and small boy, niece
and nephew of the leading lady, shielded
her train from harm. Among those at the
after-rejoicings were Knight James Barrett
and his lady, Dr. Edith Barrett, the H. H.
Jacobys and Dr. H. R. Barrett, from
Bananaland.
A supper at the Windsor followed the
knot-tying of Lesley, elder daughter of the
H. M. Daveys, of East St. Kilda, and John
Bagnall, of the same locality. Lace of straw
color and a tulle veil clad the bride, who
carried a posy of water-lilies. Peach-tinted
lace draperies were sported by Nancy Davey,
attendant maid, who wore a wreath of roses.
When Sammy, daughter of the R. R. Vin-
cents, of Geelong, wedded Rupert, elder son
of. Mr. and Mrs. A. Moon, of South Yarra,
at St. George’s, she wore vellum satin
draperies with a girdle of pearls, and a tulle
veil, and carried a sheaf of Christmas lilies.
Sheila Vincent, of Sydney, came over to
partner June Angwin as attendant ’maid,
the duo being attired in leaf-green tulle
with pink roses about their hair and spill-
ing from green baskets in lieu of posies.
Baritone Douglas Kenna will return to
Italy Carly in the new year for further
study.
The Proscenium Club’s fancy-dress dance
was a jolly affair. The president, Mrs.
Cockerton, was costumed as Marguerite of
Navarre.
Lud Mayor Smith launched a show of
Betty Pater-
son’s pictures
of kiddies in
a Coll ins-
Street gallery.
The artist, in
private life
Mrs. Newman,
was there in
a grey suit
and knitted
beret, accom-
panied by her
little daughter
Barbara, who
is depicted in
some of her
mother’s
drawings.
Mrs. H. Pater-
s o n came
along, also
Mr. Gill and
Mrs. Gill
(Esther Pater-
son). The exhibition closes on Christmas
Eve and the first day’s sales gave promise
of a complete disposal. The picture of Mrs.
Newman is from the Ruskin studio.
In “The Man Who Did,” at the Comedy,
there was some smart dressing. Beverley
Jackson, to blend with the walls and dra-
peries of a green bedroom, wore a pyjama-
suit that comprised satin trousers of
myrtle tint, a top of apple-green, and a
velvet coat of peacock tone. James Watt
introduced something new in male night-
wear—striped black and yellow silk pyjamas
fashioned with a coat on the tucked-in shirt
lines, and tightly belted. Sadie and Nancy
Scarlett, as the erring young women Lillie
and Millie, were in twin array of red skirts
and white blouses with crimson forage caps.
Lynette Dickenson in grey gown and emerald-
green hat struck a chic effect.
Constant Lambert, the late G.W.’s com-
poser-conductor son, has got engaged to
Florence Chuter, a pretty London girl.
Brother Maurice, a brawny, tawny-bearded
sculptor, decided that matrimony was worth
the risks years ago. They have done better
financially in their respective arts, consider-
ing they are both under 30, than anyone in
the post-war history of Chelsea. Apart from
the fact that each has had the high word
“genius” pinned to him by good judges, they
have the social qualities of their witty father
and their circle of friends in and out of
Bohemia is enormous.
Women have already rejected the tricornes,
the bowlers and forage-caps culled from the
styles of 60 years ago. How are they going
to use the sweeping ostrich feathers which
have won their hearts after a long, long
coldness? The poor old ostrich had just
begun to hold up liis head again, with all the
best hats demanding a graceful plume to give
them the needed air of romance; and it will
be enough to drive the birds to a perennial
moult if the sex decides to go back to the
close-fitting tailored hat it has just discarded.
Still it must be admitted, whether she gives
the ostrich the bird or not, these same little
haits, inspired by the caps of aeroplane pilots,
expressed the spirit of modern woman far
better than the Lydia Languish hats fashion
has foisted on her. A just-returned told this
Chatterer the other day that when she was in
Paris she several times met ostriches in the
street. They were attached to little carts
and were part of a publicity campaign.
Here’s one good result of the tariff. Mel-
bourne women who have never had a dress
made for them since childhood, but who
have always bought the imported model, are
now compelled to have their raiment made
on the spot. This gives the. local designer
the chance of her life; and clever women
in the big stores are now busy building up
frocks to suit the Australian atmosphere
and figure. There is a difference between
the Australian figure and the French or
English for which the imported frocks and
suits were mostly designed. The Australian
girl is more lithe, and her carriage of head
and shoulders is freer. Atmosphere, too,
plays its part in governing the shade and
texture of material to be used.
The Melbourne Y.W.C.A. has lost its
general secre-
tary of five
years’ stand-
ing, Jean
Stevens on,
pictured here
by Dickiuson-
M o n t e a t li.
She resigned
to take np
similar duties
in Maorilan-l.
Ex - Lu and
Mayor Luxton
and his wife
are rejoicing
that their son
Lewis, who is
at Pembroke
College, Cam-
bridge, has
been chosen as
a member of
the rowing
eight. He was a member of Melbourne
Grammar School’s eight, as was his father
before him.
Some Tassie tattle :
Mrs. Moser had a crowd of guests at the Queen
Mary Club to welcome her sister, Mrs. Darcy Addison.
The hostess wore a beige frisca coat and skirt; the
guest of honor sported floral georgette with large
black hat and carried a posy of pink roses. Princess
Melikoff, looking charming in green, was among
the throng.
Old Philippians gathered in force at the assembly
hall of the training college for the ceremony of
unveiling the portrait of retiring Principal J. A.
Johnson, one of the most popular personalities in
scholastic circles that Hobart has known. The
portrait is the work of Lucien Dechaineux. The
subject of it is off to his native Maoriland for an
indefinite stay.
The three Mackinnon girls, Elvina, Louise and
Jeanette, hostessed a very cheery small dance at
their home, Mountford, Longford, where the ballroom
was ablaze with huge bowls of sunset snapdragons
and mauve and blue delphiniums. The drawing-room
decoration was all of roses, and the supper tables
blushed pink and red sweet-peas. Guests came by
car from far afield.
The Jones lady threw open the pretty grounds of
Glenora, Campbell-street, for the fete in aid of the
Free Kindergarten, and the IXL band played under
the trees. The hostess was wearing black silk crepe;
daughter Alys, lately back from a long trip to
Victoria, sported floral shantung in two shades of
beige.
Newnham Racing Club (Launceston) had quite
summery weather for its last meeting, and the
pretty frockings and gay sunshades made the lawn
look like a garden in bloom. A few early swallows
in the way of mainland visitors were sprinkled among
the throng, among them the T. G. Johnstones, the
Geoff Martins, Mrs. Landon Fairthorne, the Charlie
Gunns, the H. Ritchies, the Andrew Raeburns, the
H. P. Harrissons, the F. Lakins and Dr. Thompson.
J. G. Flett’s exhibition of water-colors stirred
modernists to enthusiasm. John Eldershaw made a
few remarks before the Chief Sec. (Hon. H. E.
James) opened the show. The young artist comes
from Melbourne.
Keith Isles, a young Tasmanian who has been
collecting honors at Cambridge after his training
at the Tas. University, has been appointed lecturer
in Political Economy at Edinburgh University. He
won the Rockefeller fellowship in 1929.
The Clive Lords expect to be home in time to
eat their Christmas dinner in Hobart. One of our
patriotic curator’s unexpected duties was the defence,
in London, of the Tasmanian devil, some specimens
of which had been making themselves unpopular in
the Zoo.
Westralia tunes in:—
Olive, second daughter of Mr. Arthur Francis, has
accepted a diamond ring from Dr. W. Bruce Fry,
of Lake Grace. The bride-to-be took up dispensing
chemistry as a profession and manages the pharmacy
at Lake Grace. Sister Edna keeps the locks of the
neighborhood trimmed and waved.
Linley Wilson wound up her 1931 dancing season
with two nights of “The Poetry of Dance and
Mime.” The creamiest of society sat in the Assembly
Hall audiences and beamed upon its offspring.
Joanne Priest, a muscular lass who put in a year’s
study in the Foggy City, performed a number of
solo dances. A tale of the rain, the sun and a
rosebud was unfolded by soloists Lesley Ellis and
two little Isaachsens, a batch of pixies hatched
mischief in a magic wood, Harlequin philandered
with Columbine and Pierrette, some Japs coquetted
behind their fans, and lotus-lilies floated in mauvy-
blue draperies. There was a galloping tarantelle
for the bigger girls and a demonstration of exercises
practised in the acquiring of operatic techninue.
Jim Lee, Dorothy Fleming, Verna Ross, Betty
Barker, Penelope Clifton, Margaret Lee Steere and
Margaret Moore were a few of the dainty steppers.
Many of the costumes were designed and cut out
by Miss Wilson, whose displays are the best-dressed
amateur efforts in our city.
Patsy Regan and Stanley Slattery were recently
wedded. The bride, who was given away by her
brother, wore a sheath-like garment of ivory satin
georgette, her Limerick lace veil was held in position
by two knots of rosebuds and she carried arum
lilies and ferns. Two ’maids, sisters of the bride
and ’groom, were attired in lupin-blue chiffons, the
corsages of their frocks cut with cape effect and
the tiered skirts edged with fluting. Small Pauline
Dwyer, in early-Victorian frock and bonnet, and
carrying a basket of flowers, kept an eye on the
bride’s train.
Only one graduate, Marion Murray, emerged full-
fledged from the Kindergarten Graduation ceremony.
Gladys Pendred, wearing black with distinction, read
her report on the year’s work and had a word of
welcome for Miss Enid Wilson. Miss Wilson, in
buttercup taffetas, patterned with pink and adorned
with a big cherry-colored bow, gave an account of
Maoriland’s kindergartens with as much poise and
cultured accent as of yore. Two graduates, Joan
Good and Jo Fox, portrayed a henpecking Xantippe
and a meek Socrates in Maurice Baring’s skit. The
students warbled and Mr. Derbyshire and Prof.
Cameron had some nice things to say. Strawberry
ices and a peep at the students’ handwork made
the finale.
Mr. Harry Boan, most generous of men, handed
over a cheque of £IOOO to the metropolitan relief
committee for providing Christmas cheer for people
in difficulties. Owing to the thoughtfulness of good
Samaritans there will not be many nippers going
without a balloon or a Christmas cracker.


m
nfl3&±;
roztntr
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
t-ITl? H r ' tV U
<u
Via
AUCKLAND
N.Z.,
SUVA and HONOLULU to
Vancouver. . . This is the attrac-
tive trans-Pacific route of British
vessels of the C-A Line.
Each of these ports has its indi-
vidual charm—all offer the
traveller unlimited possibilities
for enjoyment.
For further particulars apply
Union S. S. Co., Ltd.
247 George Street, Sydney.
69 William Street, Melbourne.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are, amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 . . . . .. .. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
GS9 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
iYOUcari climb
What a holiday : The marvels
of a snow clad giant within
easy reach of a luxurious modern
Hostel, The Chateau Tongariro
... a few miles from the rail-
way .. . Gaiety, social fun, sports
and climbing. Spend a wonder-
ful holiday . . «
# and luxuriate at the Chateau.
Ai
NEW ZEALAND
Martin Place & Pitt Street.
(Opp. G.P.0.), Sydney.
•59. William StrEet, Melbourne.
And 79 Queen Street, Brisbane.
GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
AND ALL TRAVEL AGENCIES
Baldy’s Chance.
HERMON GILL
GILL TEL LS A STO R Y OF WALNUTS AND SOWEREIGNS
BALDY MARTIN leaned over the fo'c’s’le
head rail and watched the wharf-
laborers pulling the tarpaulins off the
trucks of wheat on the wharf.
He was only just above their level, for
tin' Asc-apart lay deep in the water. She
had worked her way round the coast from
Brisbane, and at each port of call her
winches had clattered unceasingly. At Fre-
mantle she was loading the last few hundred
tons that' would send her do wn to her marks.
Baldy idly sucked one end of the sweat-
rag that hung round his neck as he watched.
Hi.-! air was one of detached interest. His
small grey eyes were slightly bored. A
blue scar, relic of an epic stokehold light,
ran from one corner of his mouth to his chin
below. A black cotton cap shielded his bald
head from the heat of the sun. His fifty
years had left no middle-age spread or flab-
biness in his figure.
Space was short on the coast, and cargo
was plentiful. By reason thereof, Baldy
should have been interested in that wheat,
for it was going into the empty reserve
bunker in number-three lower hold. All the
way across the Bight from Adelaide the
deckhands had been busy cleaning the hold
up. They had washed, swept, dunnaged, and
now it was ready. With bulkheads and side
stringers draped and stanchions swathed in
hessian, with canvas save-alls carpeting the
dunnaged ceiling, it was open to the blue
sky through the wide hatches, a different
place from the black, gloomy, dusty cavern
that Baldy knew.
The decision to utilise the space for cargo
instead of bunker coal had been reached at
a conference between the captain, the chief
engineer and the agent in Sydney. The
wheat was offering at Fremantle, and the
freight was good.
“Well! What about it, Chief?’’
Old McPherson had scratched his head
and figured away with a stump of pencil in
his deliberate way.
“I cam have yon resairve bunker worked
out by Adelaide,” he had advised at length,
“but it will mean filling up they side pockets
in the West wi’ Collie coal. That’ll gi’e us
fifteen hunner don, leaving .Fremantle. Say
fourteen days across to Durban at eighty
tons a day, that’s eleven hunner an’ twenty.
That’ll leave us a guid margin, but we’ll
have to bunker at Cape Town an’ Tcncriffe
as well as Durban. But we can do it all
right.”
“Right!” The captain had turned to the
agent. “We’ll take it, Mr. Hickson. You’d
better find out from the mate what extra
dunnage and burlap he’ll want, and supply
it here.”
Old McPherson had changed the subject
as soon as the agent had departed to send
his wire to the West. “And now, about yon
man Martin, Captain”....
The decision they had just reached was
one of importance to Baldy Martin. That
reserve bunker was some distance forward
from the stokehold, and the coal from it
had to be carted a .long way. Down a
narrow steel tunnel, poorly lit, the electric
lights gleaming dully through the haze of
eoal dust. It was hot, too, and trimming
coal from there—wheeling heavy barrows
along the tunnel, especially when tin' ship
was rolling—was the sort of job to take
it out of a man. Trimming from the side
pockets was child’s play in comparison.
Having that lower hold filled with wheat
was going to make Baldy’s job much easier.
Bui: no thought of that had been in Mc-
Pherson’s mind in connection with Baldy.
“Yon man’s in trouble again,” he had
told the captain. “He was arrested last
night. Drunk an’ disorderly, an’ using
obscene language. Five pounds or a month.
He’s no got five/ pounds due to him.”
“Do you want him, or shall we leave
him there?”
“Och! He’s a guicl enough man at sea.
It’s when he gets the drink in him in port
that he’s a damned nuisance. I could do
wi’ him down below there. He’s worth
two of any o’ they others, especially if we
have to go on deucers.”
“All right! I’ll get the purser to pay his
fine and get him out. Do you want me to
log him?”
“No, no! The pollis-court fine will be
enough. : But he’ll no get any more subs,
this voyage. He’ll gang dry till we reach
London, I’m thinkin’.”
So it was that Baldy Martin leaned over
the fo’c’s’le-head rail and watched the
wharf-laborers, when the beer in the hotels
away across the railway tracks was cold and
inviting.
The work on the wheat trucks hurried
forward. Baldy watched sling after sling
drag along from tin; foot of the skids, stop
as it came below the derrick head, and
gradually lift and vanish from his sight
over the edge of the boat deck, snatched
swayingly across the vivid blue of the cloud-
less sky by the midship cargo-runner.
The loading had just got into its swing
when it was stopped. . A couple of motor-
lorries with big Hosed bodies—a policeman
and a civilian sitting beside the driver on
each—rolled along .the wharf and pulled up
just where the gang was. making up the
slings. There was a short but noisy alter-
cation between the laborers and the lorry-
drivers, broken off by the arrival of the
foreman stevedore and a couple of the
Ascapart’s officers, who had come down the
gangway from the boat deck.
The policemen and the civilians climbed
from the lorries and joined them, and a
short discussion took place. Then, at a
word from the foreman, a stream of wharf-
laborers, each carrying an oblong, stoutly-
built wooden box, was filing up the gangway
to the ship.
Baldy knew what was going . on. Each
of those boxes held-five, thousand sovereigns.
They’d becn : talking about it on .the ,fore-
;well deck the night before. lit' had listened
to an argument that centred round old Ulilin,
the Swedish lamptrimmer. Old Uhliu,
wearing his steel-rimmed spectacles and
stout green velvet slippers, had: sat on
number-one hatch and smoked his big cala-
bash pipe while he’d read the evening paper.
He’d rub his pipe, down the side of his
nose at intervals, and then hold it out at
arm’s length to admire it. He was very
proud of that pipe.
“Five hundred thousand pounds!”, That
was what old Ulilin had read out. “Five
. hundred thousand pounds ! Going in the
Ascapart to London. One hundred boxes,
with five thousand pounds in gold in each.”
When he’d finished reading, old Ulilin
had looked round over his spectacles.
“How you like that, Bahly. eh?” he had
asked. “How -you like yoost one box? Py
Yeeminy ! Yoost oue box ! .No more sheeps !
No more seal! Pe troonk for a moout’. Eh?”
“T’ ’ell wi’ that,” Baldy had answered.
“If a bloke .’ad five bob so’s ’e could go on
tile beach an’ ’ave a few, y’ could keep yer
boxes of gold. A bloke wouldn’t know wot
ter do wif ’em, any’ow.”
The hot air danced over, the shed roofs.
The wharf-laborers, waiting their turn at
the doors of the lorries, laughed and joked.
The end of flic sweat rag fell from Baldy’s
mouth as he yawned. He slowly straight-
ened himself from the rail and went below
to the fo’c’s’le.
The arrangements for carrying and tally-
ing the gold were at fault. The wharf-
laborers carried it to the top of the gang-
way, where stood the. second officer and
the civilian —one of the bank official —vvlm
tallied against each other as each man passed
them. On the boat deck, each wharf-laborer
handed his box to one of the gang from
.lumber-three lower hold, for the hathli gang
had been called up from below to carry the
boxes along the deck to the strong-room in
ihe officers’ house under the bridge.
Everything would have gone swimmingly
f one of the wharf-laborers —on his second
journey—hadn’t arrived at the handing-over
position to find nobody waiting to take his
box. There had been a hold-up at the strong-
room, and the first of the hatch gang hadn’t
returned in time to meet him. The box
he was carrying had been tallied at the
top of the gangway. He’d done his part of
the job, and he put it down on the deck
and went back to the wharf for another
one. The next man up from the wharf met
his fellow in the hatch gang according to
schedule. So did each subsequent pair meet
and transfer their precious burden. The
odd box out lay, neglected and unobserved,
just off the track along which the streams
of men were passing, alongside one of the
steering-rod bearings, just in the shadow of
the low fiddley casing. Somebody responsible
might have seen it, but here again luck was
favoring its concealment. The carpenter’s
mate was going round oiling the steering-
rod bearings. The box wasi in his way, and
he moved it, pushing it clear of the bearing,
up on to the fiddley at the foot of one of
the stokehold ventilators.
So it was that the second officer and
the man from the bank were quite satisfied
that the full one hundred boxes were on
board. They had tallied each one as it
passed. The captain and the purser,
watching the stowage at the strong-room,
were content with the joint tally from the '
gangway. The receipts were duly signed.
The strong-room was locked. The captain and
the second officer took a key each. The
two bank men had a drink with the purser
in his room before they went ashore. The
winches clattered again on the boat- deck,
and by eight o’clock that night the wheat
was all on board. Shortly afterwards the
Ascapart sailed.
Rottnest Island high light was dipping
below the horizon as Baldy Martin crossed
the fore-well deck on his way to the stoke-
hold at midnight. I-Ie saw it without emo-
tion. Rife to him was working on a ship
at sea and bursting up his pay ashore. On
the whole, he • preferred being at sea. Places
meant nothing to him. He usually got
into trouble if lie had any money, where-
ever the place w"as. Not that he ever had
much money. His beer was usually expen-
sive to him in its far-reaching effects. That
was wliy lie preferred being at sea —-out
of temptation—away from trouble. Some-*
times he idly wondered what he would do
if he had lots of money.
The ’ third engineer came into the stoke-
hold just before the end of the watch. It
was hot. There was no draught down the
big stokehold ventilators. He picked on
Baldy, wheeling a load of ashes to the
ejector.
“Hi, you, Martin! Jump up and slew
those ventilators on the wind.”
It was a still, warm night. What wind
there was the ship was making herself. The
sky was cloudless and the moon full. The
boat deck was a place of silver glow and
mysterious shadows. The canvas boat-covers
shone white. High lights gleamed on funnel
and ventilators. The water rustled softly
overside.
Baldy saw the box of gold as soon as he
went to slew the ventilator at the fore end of
the fiddley. It lay half in and half out of the
shadow, its seal shining in the moonlight.
He recognised it at once as one of the boxes
he had seen carried aboard in Fremantle.
“Five thousand pounds!”
He picked the box up, put it down again,
straightened himself and looked round
uncertainly.
“Five thousand pounds!”
He’d have to be quick. Ihe third wou d
be looking for him down there again i»
minute. Once more he stooped anti pic v *
the box up. ,
The second officer, walking up an
the bridge and waiting foi tg . „ . »
strike, stopped at the hail tiom
the ladder,
“Hi! Mister .. . ....
He saw the figure standing . , < . 7;
something. A figure, black i >
moonlight, clad in a short-sleeved vest ami
trousers. _
“What is it. „
“This ’ere box, Mister. x
“Well, bring it up. And
Baldy staggered up the st ei
put the box at the officers tee . _
“This ’ere box, Mister., It was on tnc
fiddley. I was wonderin’”..'...
“Good God!” The second officer recog-
nised the box with a sudden sick feeling
0 f panic. ,
“It was on the fiddley, Mister. 1 see
it w’en I was slewin’ the stokehold veu-
tilators, see? I was wondenn ....
“Yes! All right—er!”
“Righto, Mister !” Baldy went down tin-
ladder. The second officer made as though
to stop him, but checked himself. 'Good
God !” he murmured to himself again.
He talked it over with the mate when lie
was relieved at eight bells. The box lay
in the shadow of the cab m the wmg ot
the bridge. They whispered together about
it, discussed it from all angles,
They must keep it a secret. Yoii.il have
to think up a scheme for getting it into the
strong-room without anyone knowing. :
“I was wondering,” said the second,. it 1
should have told him.to.keep his mouth shut
about it. But I didn’t. -It would only, have
been giving ■ the show away to him. He
couldn’t have known what it was.
The mate sipped -bis- tea and- laughed sar-
castically. - “It would, be lying up here now
if he had, wouldn’t it? You ought to thank
your lucky stars, my lad, that he didn t
know. Lord, wliat a chance ! He could have
planted it and got it. away in Durban as
easy as kiss your hand. It would never have
been missed till we reached London, and
no one would have connected it with a
trimmer who missed the ship m Atrica.
Known what it was! Hell.
There was silence between them tor a
moment. T
“Five thousand quid! What wouldn t i
do with five thousand quid, said the mate,
Six weeks later the Ascapart berthed in
London. Baldy Martin, kitbag on shoulder,
picked up a handful of walnuts from a
broken bag discharged from the ship lying
ahead of them as lie walked past on Ins way
up the wharf. _ His one pound Channel
money was burning a hole m Ins pocket.
“Trimmer off the Ascapart, are you?
said the big Port of London authority
police sergeant at the dock weighing
the walnuts in his hand, “an walkin
through here with stolen cargo as large as
You can think yourself damn lucky
don t run you in. You d better hop
quick, before I change me mind,
He reached out a big hand and _ yanked
Baldy out of the way of the lorries that
were passing through flic gates on their way
to pick up the Ascapart’s gold:
The lorries stopped, while the bank
official on the driving seat had a few words
with the Customs man. The sergeant saluted
'him and nodded after the departing figure of
Baldy slouching down the road. _
“Trimmer off the Ascapart,” he said, “an’
pinchin’ cargo as soon as he lands. lie
was lucky I didn’t run him in. Very liglvt-
fingered gentry, those chaps are. It’s a
good job he didn’t have as chance to get at
your gold, sir. It would have been good-
bye if he’d.seen any of that lying around.”


k
ii
r
Distributors for the
House of McCallum:
Goldsbjtough, Mort & Go., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Adelaide.
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle.
Macfarlane Bros. & Co.,
Hobart.
Bartlams, Ltd.,
Townsville.
Northern Australian Breweries,
Ltd.,
Cairns.
“Not a bite
in a bottle
...McCalliiirts
for me every
timer
(D c Ccdiums
(PAj^
Scots GUhisl^
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/.
fd
0
0
0°
i
I „e
i>
S e
*0
,s 6
Al® >'
♦ fc 0 , ** ■' ..• •&£ ”y
v a«
.• * ~o»!,
# 4 ‘
~•* &'<*s**


BAG/
I
/
o
&
:
<
i
pV-ACE
ov
c 9
m
fi .U
%
MwIMU
L
He
m
.-• c.l
ia
r
Kid
a
a
a
£5
&
11
SP
V
$■
SS
A
<
6
o
A"> N
\
?>v>
vy
l\
<c>
\^^s>
A
«*
*s>
VN^
-rV-
V XA
CP
o*
Kv
o
te
m
Put a bottle in your
bag tonight! Ask for
K.B.—that stimulating
true lager!
