

The spirit that makes your
money
UNION
WHIT E
mP7
EXTRA QUALITY IN EVERY ESSENTIAL
NO EXTRA COST
The Bulletin
So C/W ?<— f?&.
Vol. 52.—N0. 2684.
Wednesday, July 22, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.'W’,, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
ŵ
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND* THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russill Street, Melbourne.
Please send, witlKrut obligation, your Neu- Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bui.i.ktix.
My Name •’
M" Address >
SB. 131
KEEP YOUR THROAT HEALTHY
BY REGULARLY USING
ẁ
Universally recognised as a pleasant, safe,
and efficient remedy for all affections of
the throat, chest and lungs, and carrying
the endorsement of the medical profession
for over 40 years.
Large Tins, 1/6
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
Manufactured by
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
31 Bay Street, Sydney
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at. home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge.' Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ẃ
H
Dept.
17.
Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A New Novelist
«A. J. Cronin, author of Hatter’s. Castle
(Gollancz; Roycroft; 11s. 6d.), is a doctor
34 years of age. This is his first novel, and
he has now.given up his practice to devote
himself to literature. So much from the
blurb. The novel’s 637 pages are' at least
200 pages too much of a good thing; the
work has raw edges, with incidents too
reminiscent of the more melodramatic con-
ceptions of Dickens and George Eliot, and
it is all too insistently branded with the
ancient sign of the little black bag. It is
the doctor’s rather than the artist’s eye that'
runs over each character that appears; it
is the doctor who notices that the hands
of one are “gnarled, the joints nodular with
arthritis,” and that another’s arm becomes
"blue, swollen, cedematbus.” after an acci-
dent. It is a spruce doctor-hero who diag-
noses the psychological complaint of the
tyrannous and beefy villain '(“You have a
delusion of grandeur which makes you wish
everyone to be in awe of you”), and the
same who, after moralising rather almightily,
walks off with the daughter whom neither
that supremely heavy father nor the birth
of a premature illegitimate child (wildly
coincidental with the death of its father
in a train smash) had been able to crush,
leaving the brawny bully, defeated at last,
alone with the nervy girl whom his bullying
had driven to suicide. But all this insist-
ence of the little black bag—and there is
much more of it—does not prevent the
novel from having in uncommonly large
quantities the qualities that go to make
great fiction. Already the author has a
masterly control of character, dialogue and
situation. He has humor, too. and not all
his, pathos turns to melodrama. But what,
above all, "makes him as promising a new ;
novelist as there is, is that he has no fear
of size. Hatter's Castle is not merely a
long novel; it is a. big novel. It covers a
great range of normal human action and
feeling. There is no isolating of a frag-
ment of life; life teems in it. Its major
incidents—the storm and flood in which
Mary’s illegitimate child is born; the smash
in which Foyle, the child’s father, is killed;
ihe suicide of Nessie—are catastrophes on
the grand scale, and the writer controls them
as he does the sordid small scenes around
the table in the hatter’s castle, that odd
piece of architecture, neither quite imposing
nor quite funny, wherein James Brodie,
,who designed it for himself, looms large
and ugly at meals.
Sapped Mortals
There is none of that fiction size about.
V. Sackville-West’s All Passion Spent
(Hogarth; 7s. 6d. net). On the contrary,
it. is a singularly restricted novel. Only in
the last few pages does a young person step
on to the stage, and even she is old-
fashioned, with more intellect than emotion.
The rest are old and practically emotion-
less. They make pallid contrast against
such as the Italian Svevo’s fleshly-mindecl
but bodily impotent old men. All blood
has been drained from these English aristo-
crats; they exist by virtue of a kind of sap.
The novel, like its leading figure, Lady
Slane, is cut off from all other life; but
for all that restriction, which gives it more
the flavor of a study or an essay than of a
narrative, it is a complete piece of work.
It is short, but it is part of the writer’s
method to say more in such a phrase as
“To William and Lavinia parsimony was in
itself a career” that most novelists say with
whole pages of detail. She is not robust
in depicting a group as A. J. Cronin is.
but detached after the Galsworthy or M.
Barnard Eldershaw fashion, a. manner that,
admirably suits her diamond-white, but
never frigid, atmosphere. There is some-
thing of the unforgettable in such scenes
as that in which Lady Slahe, after the
death of the 90-odd-year-old Earl,
declines her family’s smugly dutiful plans
for her future and announces that she is
determined to have peace alone at Hamp-
stead (“where all the old ladies go to live”),
or that in which she makes her maid (prac-
tically as old as herself) bring the jewels
to another post-mortem family, gathering
(“Loot. The eyes of William and Lavinia.
glittered”), and, instead of the usual divid-
ing of the spoils, gives them all to Mabel.
The telling is tinged with a faintly malicious
feminism which amounts to a style and
which nicely keeps the story .in a place of
lavendered loveliness and glittering comedy.
Madame Blavatshy
The malicious smacks in “Ephesian’s”
latest, The Mysterious Madame: A Life
oj Madame Bla -•
vatsky ( Bodley
Head; Roycroft;
7s. 6d. net), are
not likely to be
called faint, either
by those who accept
Madame Blavatsky’s own version of her
life story or by those who side with “Ephe-'
sian” in calling her a charlatan. Though
holding that opinion, “Ephesian” can still
call her “one of the most remarkable women
of modern times.” His is racy and some-
what sudden biography. He suggests that
her own account of her early life of fantastic 1
adventure, occult research, Masters’ com-
mands and so forth was merely so much
camouflage for a term of wild-oats sowing,
and he sets other accounts alongside it with
an air of believe whichever you like, but
surely the choice is obvious. He mentions
the oaths which the Blavatsky appears to
have used with the vigor and range of a
sailor, and sets down without comment a
story of her having mysteriously caused a
glass of liquor held in mid-air by another to
shatter,- because she hated strong drink
(“Challenged to repeat her Prohibitionist
gesture, she did so with ease”). He details
the Coulomb exposures of fake miracles and
the Australian Richard Hodgson’s report on
her “elaborate and painstaking impostures,”
and speaks of her “uncontrollable temper her
recklessness, her insatiable thirst for power,
and the ceaseless publicity by which she
sought to a-chieve it.” He ridicules alike
Hodgson’s theory that .she was a Russian
secret-service agent and Rene Guenon’s
later accusation that “Theosophy is mainly
an instrument in the service of British
imperialism”; and he winds up with his own
theory that Madame Blavatsky was actu-
ated by no worse and no better motive
than vanity in spending “so many arduous
years, racked by illness and menaced by
poverty and the fear of exposure, in build-
ing up her Theosophical system of magic,
mystery and Mahatmas.”
Money was certainly not her dominant motive.
She was a woman of good family, widely travelled
and with a profound knowledge of the world, if
financial stability had been her aim, she could have
found far easier ways of attaining it than Theosophy.
She could have lived quietly with her family in
Russia or relied on her pen, for she was an
imaginative writer of real, merit. Every line she
wrote was vivid, biting and racy. Her Caves and
Jungles of Hindustan ranks among the most enter-
taining books ever written about India.... It hardly
accords with her impatient temper and her sense
of humor that she should expend the best part of
her life in fraudulent mystifications with the sole
purpose of impressing people whom, at best, she
regarded as “muffs" and “imbeciles."
His last word on her is: “One of the most
accomplished, ingenious and interesting
charlatans of history.” Now he must be
prepared for the deluge. It should not be
any less heavy than the one he brought
down with his Dickens novel a year or two
ago.
Something Horrific
The faithful might do worse than wish on
“Ephesian” the punishment of having to
read twice daily the latest Lowell Thomas
adventure outburst, The Wreck of the
Durnaru (.Heinemann; 10s. 6d. net). No
offence to Mr. Thomas is intended. He is a
competent and effective journalist with a
good knack for stringing strange life stories
together. The punishment would lie in the
nature of the story, which, in the words of
the survivor who tells it to Thomas, start-
lingly begins: “I was one of the survivors
in the open boat that drifted a thousand
miles across the South Seas when we ran
out of food and ate the chief engineer."
The Dumtiru, an American wooden-ship
munitions-carrier, was struck by lightning in
a storm off Guam in October, 1918. She took
fire, and one of the escaping boatloads of
crew went adrift iff the Pacific and in 24
days lost more than half its company of
32, most of them going insane after gorging
on salt water, a couple committing suicide
and the flesh of two being boiled and eaten.
1 stop at that. I have read the yarn and
have no hankering to repeat any of the
dose. I found only one note of light relief,
a simile descriptive of the appearance of
the Dumaru under camouflage. Thomas
has it that she looked “like a clown on an
evil sea.” He writes rather like that.
Red Page.
Literature of Despair
A puzzling aspect of our censorship is |
not the books it bans so much as the ones j
it doesn’t ban. If Rcdheap should be barredj
for realism wiy pass—to take one of a i
score that any novel reviewer could name
offhand —My Husband Simon?
Lindsay’s nofel can’t have been censored
for obscenity. tin law an obscene book is
one, “calculated to corrupt the minds of
normal persons?—the wording may be im-
perfect, but tliat is the meaning of the
section. The ielea of Rcdheap, which smiles
at the tragi-cofmedy of youthful eroticism
at the beginnid|; of the century, producing
(Red Pager continued on page o.)


m
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Business integrity
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Postal Address: Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
'Phone: M 2401, (Day and Night)
Use Our
D.P.S.
Lfefi
3S
rmm
v-_==-53-
*s
~=*?sss^ir-
=s?
urn and Ge^~
'^y
mm?-
lizSi
&r
Write for a copy
of our Sale Cata-
logue, Sent post
free.
ẅ
28/6 White Blankets (Slightly
Superior quality White Australian
Sizes, inches
Prices
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pr.
Blankets 6f full standard size and weight
54 x 78 63 x 81
28/6 35/11
17/11 22/11
Soiled)
72 x 90
45/-
28/11
mmi
a Dl
m
24/6 Grey Blankets at
All-wool Tasmanian Grey Blankets,
in a superior, long-wearing quality.
Full standard weight and size. Buy
now and benefit by these exceptional
reductions.
w
Sizes
Prices, pair
Sale Prices
54 x 78
24/6
18/11
63 x 51
37/6
31/6
72 x 90
29/6
23/11
81 x 99
49/6
39/11
42/6 White Blankets at
375 Pairs only! Superior White Aus-
tralian Blankets. Full standard size
and weight. Double-bed size, 72 x
90 inches. Thrifty shoppers will
realise what exceptional value this is.
e
Price, pair 42/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair 25/-
28/6 Hordura Blankets
4500 pairs of the famous “Hordura”
White Blankets greatly reduced.
are obtainable only at Anthony
Horderns , and carry their guarantee
of complete satisfaction. Full warmth
and long wear. Full standard size
and weight.
VALUE! “HORDURA” QUALITY 010
Sizes . . . . Single. f -Bed.
Prices. . . . 28/6 35/11
Anthony Horderns*
Sale Price, pair, 21/- 26/6
Sizes . . . . Double. Large Double.
Prices . . . . 45/- 55/-
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, pair, 33/6 41/6
RELIABLE! “HORDURA” QUALITY 020.
Large
Sizes . . Single. f-Bed. Double. Double.
Prices, pair, 32/11 39/11 49/6 59/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price pair—
-23/11 31/- 37/6 46/6
li
Now at
1
1 tin
THE LOWEST
PRICES FOR YEARS!
FAMOUS! “HORDURA” QUALITY 030. ALL PURE WOOL.
Sizes . . . . '. . . . . . . . Single. f-Bed. Double.
Prices, pair . . . . . . . . . . 35/- 44/- 55/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair . . . . 28/11 35/6 45/-
Large Double.
69/6
55/6
55/6 and 58/6 Down Quilts, Now
Double-Bed Down Quilts, in various styles. Sateen or Satin panels. Filled with superior
Feather Down. This is truly exceptional value. Buy now at this genuinely reduced price.
Size, 6ft. x sft. Prices 55/6, 58/6,
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 35/11
Ik
77/11 Down Quilts at
Figured Sateen Down Quilts. Two
attractive styles are offered. Sateen
panels. Well-filled superior-quality
down. Size, 6ft. x 5 ft. Every thrifty
houswife will benefit by this bargain.
77/11
Anthony Horderns* Sale Price, each 47/6
T
■
84/6 and 89/6 Now at
Superior Down Quilts, in various
styles. Figured Sateen, with Satin
panels in different designs. Filled
with superior down. Be early for this
exceptional bargain. Double-bed size.
Prices
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each
84/6, 89/6
54/6
n
Blankets and Quilts —First Floor. We pay carriage.
‘Phone: M 2401
ftay and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LTD,, SYDNEY,
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
i
z.
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
8/6 Men’s Pyjama
Suits Now at
6/9
Men’s Pyjama
Suits Anthony
Horderns’ own
make, cut and
finished in
accordance with
our usual stan-
dard of excel-
lence. In warm
winter Weight
Flannelette. As-
sorted stripe
designs.
Prices,
8/6, 11/6, 12/6
Anthony
Horderns’
Sale Prices,
6/9, 9/6, 10/6
A
a
ŵ
10/6 Underwear
Now Selling at
7/6
wi
m
ẁ
fir Garment"
Underpants
or
Undershirts
Men’s Wool and
Cotton Under-
wear—l. & R.
Morley’s make.
Natural shade.
Extra warm
weight. Soft
finish. U nder-
shirts with half
sleeves under-
pants to ankle.
Sizes, 34 to 42
chest or waist.
Price per gar-
ment .... 10/6
Anthony
Horderns’
Sale Price,
1/6
8/6 Underwear
Men’s All-wool Underwear
Natural shade. Medium
6/6
weight. Soft and warm wear. Under-
shirts with short sleeves. Underpants to
ankle. Size, 34 to 42 chest or waist.
Price, per garment 8/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .... 6/6
Men’s Mercery and Hats, Ground Floor.
We pay carriage.


NOW. . .you can
New Zealand ..
travel to
via the Matson Line!
New Zealand’s scenery is unique
in character. Mt. Bowen, South
Island.
(N.Z, Govt. Pub. photo.)
The new Matson Oceanic route
to America and England! A
thrilling, well “spaced” route!
32 days to England!
«
9MB
J < //W-
-1
if
SI
7>*
y«<i*
JifWfhiiii ''
i
< Slujt\/}ujc
:j:£:
Lm***
W:/fa£&& inH
■ffisasvjJKsss
i
as
Liners sail every Three Weeks
Fast, Comfortable service
Maori girls are charming,
vivacious, and they are
famous for their beauty.
(N.Z. Govt. Pub. photo.)
Land of startling contrasts —
snow'dad peaks . . . moun-
tains that burst into bloom!
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street/Sydney
'Phone B 7981 -3
VV/HEN the Matson Liner S.S. "Sonoma”
’ * passes through Sydney heads on August 4,
she steams for Auckland! From August 4, Mat-
son Liners carry passengers from Australia to
New Zealand! Auckland becomes a regular port
of call on the Matson Oceanic Route to America
and England!
This new service brings New Zealand into closer
touch with Australia. Now, you can spend a
thrilling holiday under ideal conditions in New
Zealand —or call at Auckland —when you visit
America or England via this varied and amazing
route! Matson Liners leave Sydney every three
weeks.
MAIL THIS COUPON TO THE ADDRESS BELOW.
Please send me free information on a trip to Auckland
□ Suva □ Pago Pago Q Honolulu □ United States Q
England □ M
sit
■ m
tit
m
111
<• * ;<</>
.
m
America’s skyscrapers
are right on your way
to England via this
amazing route!


ẃ
MODERN FOODS THE CAUSE!
In these days of modern foods the
colon becomes encrusted with food
waste not properly eliminated
causing seif-poisoning ( autoxima ),
the result of hidden constipation,
from which nine out of fen per-
sons unconsciously suffer. Cerms
and poisons breed in this accumu-
lated waste. They enter the blood
stream, causing loss of energy, de-
pleted vitality making you old
before your time.
INTERNALLY CLEAN
Serious sickness will arise unless
this crust on the colon is removed
and the body made internally clean.
Temporary measures only aggra-
vate the condition—the encrusted
poisonous matter must be dissolved
and cleaned from the system.
YOUTH REGAINED
The prompt way to do this is to
drink CGLOSEPTIC. Gently but
surely it thoroughly banishes im-
purities not only from the colon
but through all Nature's avenues
for purifying the blood stream.
Then comes the vigorous vitality
of youth regained! Bubbling with
energy, you radiate glorious health.
Prove it for yourself.
Do you suffer from
LUMBAGO?
HEADACHES?
RHEUMATISM? NEURITIS?
WEAK
BLADDER?
SCIATICA?
CATARRH?
GASTRITIS?
PILES?
Drink COLOSEPTIC every morning
for seven days and personally prove
its worth for any of these com-
plaints. Send for the Special
Demonstration Jar to-day.
CUT OUT AND MAIL TO-DAY !
|C
53
CO
art
'otoiirric c****
Regular Fuii-sixe Jars, 5/7-J-
All Chemists and Stores
To Coloseptic Co. Ltd. ( 2f) )
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
I am anxious to try COLOSEPTIC. Will you
please send me a Special 1/- Demonstration Jar
and your free booklet, which tells how COLO-
SEPTIC renews the energies of youth. I enclose
stamps or Postal Notes to the value of 1/-.
NAME
ADDRESS.
31/C
an aphrodisiac effect on a normal modern
is as comic as any of the people in the
book. According to one semi-official com-
munique, “Such works are liable to make
imitators of adolescents.” It is generally
realised that most young people think,
and, unless they are watched, behave
as the young people do in Redheap.
Hundreds of front-rank English and Ameri-
can writers have recognised the fact since
Thackeray first had the courage to draw
attention to it. And why not? The Red-
heap lads and lasses are normal, healthy
and vigorous, and the result is the book
has an exuberant optimism and a zest for
life which are edifying. *
There is another kind of novel, though,
which may do moral and social damage.
For some reason such books are not cen-
sored, and are spoken of with respect by
reviewers, though they glorify excess and
usually deal kindly with unnatural vice.
Three that have had good sales here within
the last few months may be instanced—
Waugh’s Vile Bodies (English), Van Vech-
ten’s Parties (American) and Lower’s
Here’s Luck (Australian). The authors
have probably never read one another, and
they describe widely different social circles,
but their characters are significantly alike.
They all live in 1931 or thereabouts, and
hate work; their existences consist of a
round of orgiastic, parties; they are pro-
jrriiscuous, but they put no enthusiasm into
the business, love coming a long way after
drink and money in their estimation; they
take every form of sexual aberration for
granted; they are, as indiscriminatingly
democratic in their ways and. tastes as
habitual criminals; they'are all brilliantly
funny, and they are all wretched.
In Vile Bodies the hero,;after exhausting
every device to j*et money, sells the girl
.who is going to have, an infant by him to
a- wealthy friend who has become engaged
to her. The price fixed after considerable
bargaining is £7B 165." 2d.—the amount of
the hero’s hotel-bill—and the arrangement
is' that he will stop cohabiting with her,
which he doesn’t. We leave him awaiting
destruction near a battlefield in a car with
his general, who is very drunk, and the
general’s mistress. Parties is about a series
of boozing-matches in New York, London
and Paris (in Paris the hero and a friend
perform the almost unbelievable feat of
sinking five quart bottles of Pouilly and a
number of brandies at lunch), but its main
theme is the emotional problem of David
and Rilda. They are married and passion-
ately in love, but can’t keep sober or stick
to each other. Towards the end their small
son offers a suggestion:—
Regent complains, very sweetly, that he never sees
you and Rilda because you’re always at parties.
He wants you to cut out drinking till he’s old
enough to go out and get drunk with you.
The story ends with David and Rilda
drunker than usual, and David preparing
to visit Rilda’s rival, Rosalie. Here’s Luck
tells how a Sydney suburbanite and his
son (“Stanley is about 18 or 19—I am not
sure which”) celebrate a financial wind-
fall. Their orgies, in which neither is
entirely sober day or night, take them all
over the town, cause Agatha, Stanley’s
mother, to clear out in despair, and land
the father in an inebriates’ home, Agatha
is coming, having forgiven hiffi, as such
women always do; so is-- Flannery, the
hotelkeeper, who smuggles in his whisky.
“I hope Flannery doesn’t faij me,” he
reflects anxiously. And then, “Here comes
Flannery. Thank God!” and the book
finishes. The writers differ in details which
may have a class basis. Mr. Waugh
doesn’t bother to expatiate on the splendors
of his great English houses; he takes them
for granted. Mr. Van Vechten goes into
ecstasies about New York’s “Chippendale
and Sheraton and Heppelwhite and Jaco-
bean fauteuils, settles, benches, stools and
couches,” and describes a noisomely expen-
sive private cocktail bar twice. Mr. Lower
rather enjoys the sordidness of his char-
acters’ surroundings. But all have the
same ethical outlook, and their people are
blood brothers and sisters under their skins.
The characteristics that make these books,
and others like them, dangerous don’t exist
in Redheap. They are of the period, and
they preach a gospel of despair. Adoles-
cents are more likely to deride than ape
the passions of 30 years ago, but some might
experiment with perversions which are re-
presented as up to date. However, that is
a small consideration beside the other.
The worst turn a teacher can do to adoles-
cents—-and every writer is a teacher of
sorts —is to make them suspect that life
is a lugubrious swindle; that the.way to
beat it is to break its rules; that that is
what amusing -and' enlightened people do,
and that those who don’t are dull and be-
hind the times. It'is' fiction’s sin against
the Holy Ghost. Many books .besides those
that have been discussed go in for such
propaganda, but the idiot-officials who
banned Redheap don’t even seem to know
they are in the libraries.
J. B. D.
Exit Aloysius
Trader Horn was standing one evening
in front of the Hotel Metropole, Sydney,
when a friend of mine spotted him, and,
thinking that an interview with the cele-
brated writer would be both interesting
and instructive, accosted him with a genial
“Trader Horn, I believe!”
The ex-S’African gridiron-hawker was
delighted to be recognised in the dark,
and, following guide gladly, proceeded
to & rfear-by' book emporium, where his
entertainer thought that the Titerary atmo-
sphere would engender a feast of reason and
a flow of soul. He was mistaken. The
only thing that the interview engendered
was a steady flow of whisky. “Trader’s”
talk, when he did open his mouth, and that
was rarely, was about oysters, the weather,
Sydney Harbor, the Bridge and the loveli-
ness of Sydney damsels. Aloysius was wear-
ing two overcoats at the time, and from
an inside pocket of each he produced a
bottle of whisky, nearly full. As soon
as he was comfortably seated he sampled
them. He drank his whisky neat, swallow-
ing three or four fingers at gulp.
He used none of the expressions that are
so common in his books. There was no sign
of “choicey,” “chaneey,” “in the ultimate”
or “Homo-Stultus," and he never men-
tioned an elephant, rogue or otherwise.
Even when he had got outside half a dozen
stiff nips he did not drift into any maudlin
tenderness concerning “the little ring-
letted lass of the lily-ponds in a Lancashire
lane who had kept his heart,” and that six
feet of drifting snow the albatross never
got into the picture.
Not a word about Africa was forthcom-
ing, the hour was getting late, and the tide
in the two bottles was ebbing fast. My
friend was in a quandary, as his guest was
apparently not going home until dawn.
Finally, a couple of pals on the night staff
of the “Daily Pictorial” were rung up. They
obligingly came to the rescue, and after
some persuasion induced the old trader to
follow, them to the office, where farewells
were said and an appointment made for
the morrow to photograph Aloysius in the
Botanic Gardens with each arm around a
lovely damsel.
Old Trader Horn always said in his queer
phraseology that he was quite prepared to
look the .word Finis in the face same as the
rogue elephant’s got to do sooner or later,
and, doubtless, he lived up to his philosophy
in those last hours in the Kentish nursing
home. Whether some of the incidents in
his three books were faked, and just how
much of the text Mrs. Ethelreda Lewis was
responsible for, are matters for argument,
but the fact remains that some of his queer
sentences have the authentic ring of
true literature, and have a habit of sticking
in the memory when writing of a much
superior kind has long been forgotten.
MACQUARIE STREET.
A Satchel of Books
“Major Vavasour-Cholmondeley, V.C.,
D. 5.0., M.C. and Bar, stood icily cool in the
Cimmerian darkness of the duke’s study, his
hand on the electric switch. The murderer
of the Marquis de Perpignan was approach-
ing. Suddenly the vast room was flooded
with light. There in faultless evening-dress,
his silk hat at a rakish angle, a homicidal
leer contorting his drawn features, his auto-
matic levelled, crouched H.R.11. the Prince
of Wales!” The denouement of Brian
Flynn’s The Orange Axe (John Long; 7s.
6d. net) isn’t quite as unexpected as that,
but it is along those lines. A first-rate
thriller, compounded chiefly of revenge,
revolvers, blackmail, blood, Soho, knives,
London and Continental society, axes, and a
collection of picturesque lunatics who never
by any chance , do the expected thing.
In the Straight Flame (Sampson \ Low ;
Robertson and Mullens; 7s. 6d. net),
Pliil'lis IlambledOn kills the wrong hero.
John Cary,-who enters Lucilla’s life when
she is at .school andends by ' marrying
her, gives the book its only false note. He
is a stage hero—exasperatingly strong,
silent, virtuous and platitudinous. But
Lucilla is a darling, and her English mother,
her French father, lier snobbish half-sister,
the people she meets abroad, and particularly
poor Piers, with whom she falls madly in
love, fairly throb with life.. The action
covers the 15 years that preceded the end
of the World War, and gives the witty
authoress a chance to show her intimate
knowledge of how upper middle-class Eng-
land saw that interesting period through.
Neviss, a girl novelist, and Simon, a young
stockbroker, met at a week-end house-party.
They spent an experimental night together
on the way back to London, found-it satis-
factory, and got married. After three years
she found that the married state was inter-
fering with her art, and agreed to the sug-
gestion of an American publisher, whose in-
tentions were all too obvious, that she should
accept a New York apartment from him in
which to produce her masterpiece undis-
turbed. My Husband Simon, by Mollie
Panter-Downes (Collins; 7s. 6d. net), is the
masterpiece. It is a novel of the exhibitionist
school—one of those works in which the
narrator leads her public into the marital
chamber, and provides a 250-page disquisi-
tion on the subject that interests her most,
calling “spades” “bloody shovels” with relish
throughout. The character of Simon —affec-
tionate, conventional, an anti-intellectual of
the Old Etonian breed —is well done, and
there is some sensitive writing about London.
But the achievement certainly isn’t worth
the loss of a likeable husband.
There is some colorful writing in Eagles'
Crag, by Ethel Holdsworth (Stanley Paul;
7s. 6d. net), but her aim, like that of the
Fat Boy, is too obvious. When -Henri, the
French farmhand, first hears about the York-
shire establishment where lie has taken
a job he feels “the flesh to starken on his
bones.” And no Avonder. The place is
inhabited by lunatics—-a gypsy girl, whose
“open cloak revealed a green bodice and a
tambourine slung over her shoulder by a
long ribbon” (she only dresses like this once
a year) ; “Old Luke.” who munches barley-
sugar day and night, and his fearsome
mother, aged 93.
Asleep!
He caught the ghastly whisper.
His blood curdled.
He could see nothing but the blank darkness of ;
the room.
The book has all too many passages like
that, and, it ends in generous libations of
blood. Le Fanu, and similar., Victorian'
masters of tjjjg goose-flesh school, got -their
effects oil much subtler lines. - - - -
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
S.N.: Interesting, but five times too long.
. ...L.F.G.: That was written before Britain got
back to the gold standard... .G.S.F.: Can’t under-
take to even acknowledge every contribution, though
it be a policy to save Australia. The daily average
of plans of salvation is well over 20.... Bush Econ:
But The B. doesn’t want low wages. It wants right
wages... .F.S.: Some grain among the chaff, but you are
the first bard of our acquaintance who ever tried to
rhyme “shame” with “sesame”... .Veritas: You
brighten up the anatomical horizon with one new
phrase, anyhow. What on earth is “the fleshy part
of the stomach” ?... .S. Q. Whyffe: So the term
“flapper” was a happy inspiration of yours as long
ago as 1880 ? And 15 years later “Sappho Smith”
borrowed it for use in The Bulletin, after which
it spread rapidly? We live and learn... .Ground F.:
Have read worse, but only on lollies. .. .1.L.M.: Com-
petently done, but they say very little.... Mag. W.:
If anything, it is below average... .E.V.J.: Too
sentimental for this address... .R.W.P.: There’s a
vast difference between irregular metre and metrical
chaos, and between rhythm and singsong H.C.:
Here and there it almost rose to “Answers” level.
... .H.D.S.: But all you say is contained in the
two short lines on which you build it... .M.M.C.:
Nothing life-like in “Life’s Cry”... .C.D.M.: “Fred’s
Old Man” had just enough strength to reach the
fire St. J.: Most of the books mentioned are
obtainable in Australia, or a bookseller will get
them for you... .Fed Up: Turned down... .Delta:
Too well watered.... Caliban: As you say, they do
“reek a bit of Keats and lamp-oil,” but they’re not
bad*work, all the same. And you’ll do better
8.E.H.: So many write that very same poem
E.B. : 4i Still don’t care for the obituary C.T.C.:
You put-it nicely, but the thought is thin R.C.:
The keep-smiling idea is all right as a private
hobby. .. .8.P.M.: You don’t quite make it....
J. 8.: Nice touch in the after-the-qyclone reaction,
when “all our troubles seem forgotten, although
nature has treated us rotten” Belledve: Another
picturesque glimpse of Tasmania: —
\ CORNEALIAN BAY CEMETERY.
Facing the wide and
Wild, rolling deep,
Lbom the Graveyard
- Where the departed sleep.
From - weather’s and time
O’er mouldering bones
Here and there to be seen
Are broken headstones.
Large elegant tombs
Ahd beds of clay
In the gardens of peace
At Cornealian Bay.
{Next: “Hobart Regatta.”)
E.K.C.: Don’t care for the treatment Morand:
Even the fact that you’re only 17 is no lawful
excuse for rhyming 1 “train” with “blame” and
calling a cloud a “woollen muffler of the skiey
throat”... .Jimmy: Two pounds for your rondel?
Why, Jack Lang has a better idea of values than
that Listener: We’ll do the listening, but the
music will have to be much better... .T.S.F.:
On the singsong side... .L.E.: “The camp-fire’s
blazing brightly as of yore” is the truest note in
“The Camp-fire”... .Michael Leo: No good, Mick....
J.M.W.: You fail to get far in “The Quest”....
Dogged D.: Better send your muse to Voronof....
L.H.: Coaxed old lady into an envelope for home-
ward journey... .8.C.: Club life in your town must
be damnable if that’s the type of yarn they spin.
. ...D.G.8.: As lifeless as the beggar in the story.
J.C.: Very near... .N.S.: Demands more serious
treatment, and climax is loosely handled... .M.A.J.:
Boarding-house yarn needs a'spring cleaning... .H.H.:
Crimes rehashed don’t interest U5....C.J.: Wife and
typist will have to fight it out elsewhere... .S.D.F.:
Overlong and far-fetched... .R.W.: A whirl of unreal
characters and improbable situations... .A.P.R.:
Maudlin... .8.W.: Is there no limit to your ver-
bosity? C.A.: Cheaply melodramatic. .. .N.E.S.:
Creaks with age V.P.: But suburban J. Hops
don’t chase Chinese white-slavers all over the Pacific.
... .A.M.D.: Send essay on tipping to an Aberdeen
paper... .D.G.: Meanders too much... .W.L.: Slumped
at the second page F.R.: Are there four villains
or one, with his name spelt four ways?... .E.M.:
Wordy Z.W.: Bathos.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.H.: No cage vacant for cross between gorilla
and bunyip.... W.H.P.: Want ’em firmer and bolder.
. ...W.J.H.: Since when have abos. sprouted tails?
G.H.: Found Persians a poor lot C.D.: First
attempt? No need to stress that E.C.C.: Get a
sound foundation before you tackle the high-flown
stuff M.M.: That parson has been scolding fisher-
men for at least 50 years R.M.T.: A mass of tangled
cotton would look more artistic 8.D.: Can’t dis-
tinguish bathers from driftwood H.M.: Common-
place. .. .A.J.: Obvious that you have never seen
a sheep shorn J.M.F.: And you want to be paid
for that!. .. .S.M.W.: “Advanced ideas?” They’re as
old as the hi 115.... J.Y.: Gracefully done, but humor-
less C.K.: Are they fishing for whales?....
M.C.: Promising in patches A.E.: Almost provokes
us to incendiarism L. 8.: So mules have replaced
horses at your local race meetings? G.G.S.: You
must be quick off the mark with topical drawings
F.H.Q.: Topsy-turvy art and a senile jest
P. 8.: Keep on trying.


w
ŵ
è


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2684.
July 22, 1031.
“CHILDREN ALL OF THE ONE FATHER.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 214 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252111 B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westiialia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s-6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 5d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: 3d. Elsewhere: sd.
STILL MOVING TOWARDS A
CRASH.
The best the Federal Treasurer can promise
for the year we have just entered is a
deficit of over five millions, notwithstanding
the extra taxes with which he burdens us
and the cut in interest on internal debt
and in public-service salaries and social ser-
vices. Admittedly the prices of all our
staples are unusually low; but last season
was exceptionally good in the wool and
wheat country, and the promise for the
coming season is, on the whole, excellent.
We cannot, however, promise ourselves a
continuance of these conditions; on the
contrary, we can promise that they will
change for the worse. If a deficit of five
millions on top of all the expected State
deficits is the best we can do in these cir-
cumstances, then the best is bad. .
Thus far Government economies, apart
from the interest cut, have been almost
wholly confined to reduction of pay, where-
as the truest economy lies in dispens-
ing with what we can do without. For
many years the Federal Government had
far too much money to spend, and the
public services have been absurdly bloated.
Between 1916 and 1928 Commonwealth
expenditure rose from £4 19s. to £l3 3s. 6d.
per head of population, and combined Com-
monwealth and State expenditure from
£l5 2s. Id. to £32 Os. 9d. per head. During
this period the crime of Canberra was com-
mitted. We cannot recover the millions
wasted there; but we can evacuate the
place, temporarily or otherwise, and transfer
the entire business to Melbourne and
Sydney, wherever it can be most eco-
nomically and conveniently done. It should
be a matter of accounting: what does it
cost to carry on the business at Canberra
and what would it cost to do it away from
that ridiculous place? The matter of
national pride can be left out of considera-
tion: there is no room for that when the
best we can show, after cutting down inter-
est on our debts and pensions and wages
and salaries, is a deficit of over five mil-
lions. A nation that pays its way can
afford a Canberra; we cannot.
And there is the smaller matter of the
Commonwealth railways. We cannot re-
cover the millions spent on the East-West
line years before we could afford it; but
we can consider whether we should lose
any revenue worth mentioning by reducing
the services and cutting down the heavy
loss. This loss has to be made good; yet
after imposing every tax the country can
bear—and more than it can bear without
producing unemployment and distress—
we are still unable to make the whole loss
good that way. And the only other way
is to do it out of loans.
The reduction or abolition of departments
which we thought we could afford and now
know we cannot will, it is true, cause unem-
ployment also; but it is time we realised
that employment is not what Australia
needs—our need is productive employment.
Work is a good thing; but work can be
more wasteful than idleness. The idle man
consumes his food and his clothes; the man
doing something superfluous for the sake
of his job consumes also material. If the
man is in the public service the taxpayer
has to pay for the material as well as the
man’s wages or salary; if he is in private
service, the community has to pay in the
long run just the same.
To save itself Australia must turn its
attention to two things: the production of
staples, and the production of goods
to take the place of imports. These two
are equally necessary to redress that
balance of trade which has slipped so over-
whelmingly against us. The more of our
people we can put to these two under-
takings, the higher the pay we can afford
to give those engaged in them; the more
of our people engaged otherwise, in distribu-
tion, in middlemen’s jobs, in the non-pro-
ductive branches of public and private
services, the less there can be for the real
producers of wealth—the people who produce
raw materials and those who add to the
value of raw materials in the course of
manufacture.
Our cities have grown beyond all reason,
not so much because of their size in rela-
tion to the total population as because they
consist so largely of mere parasites upon
production. Adelaide, with a mere handful
of manufactures, has no less than 56 per
cent, of the population of the whole vast
State; and the position is very little better
elsewhere. This comparison is startling:—
Percentage op Metropolitan Population to
Total op Country.
Victoria .. .. 57.30 | Belgium .. .. 10.33
Au s 55.99 Holland .. .. 9.62
49.99 Norway .. .. 8.99
Australia.. .. 49.28 Sweden .. .. 777
Austria .. . . 27.75 Prance . . . . 7.00
Denmark .. 21.30 Spain .. .. 3.61
Irish F S. . . 14.33 Italy . . . . 2.22
England .. . . 11.15
Australian productive industries cannot
stand this burden, and it will have to be
reduced. To blame the “great financial
interests” or any other bogey is a waste of
time and effort, and is only done, in nine
cases out of ten, to block the real, indis-
pensable reform.
In this matter Lang is at least as logical
as the others. He, at any rate, sees that
this huge parasitic army can only be main-
tained at the expense of those who have
something; and he cheerfully proposes to
take it from them for the purpose. He
affirms the right of the parasite to go on
being a parasite until there is no more sus-
tenance to be extracted; and then there
must be certain and complete collapse of
the present social system. His offence is
greater than that of others only inasmuch
as he seems to press forward to that col-
lapse, with all its terrible possibilities, as
something to be proud of instead of as a
disaster to be ashamed of and avoided at all
costs. But the others will reach something
almost as bad, though by a slower route,
unless the burden is shifted.
Of course there are difficulties in the way.
There always are. But there are greater
difficulties beyond if this thing is not done.
The first necessary step is to realise that it
has to be done—to realise that, with the
low prices ruling for our staples, our present
handful of primary and secondary producers
cannot carry so vast a burden of non-pro-
ducers on their backs. The politicians will
never show us a way out. They are for the
most part mere short-sighted vote-catchers;
and the vote of the parasite who hates to be
disturbed is as valuable as that, of the host
who is being bled white. In any case this
is not their job: this is the job of the busi-
ness organiser. Fortunately the Prime Min-
ister knows his limitations; and there are
others like him. It is safe to say that there
is not a front-rank business man in Austi'alia
who would not gladly join with these poli-
ticians in threshing out a scheme for the
restoration of prosperity. Economies of
the pattern so far approved will not do it.
The dole will merely delay it and add enor-
mously to its difficulties. So will addi-
tional taxes. Only a great increase of our
production can do it. The difficulties in
the way of that must be faced, and the
means of overcoming them diligently
sought and found and then resolutely fol-
lowed.
INFLATION.
The report of the Macmillan Committee
on Finance and Industry has been presented
to the British Government. It declares
that the Central Banks of the world should
aim at raising price levels; that the mone-
tary system of Britain should be a “man-
aged” and not an “automatic” one; that
the first step necessary to end the present
world depression is a greater willingness
of creditor countries to buy and to lend.
It favors the gold standard, unhesitatingly
rejects the suggestion that sterling should
be devalued, and recommends that the
Bank of England should be empowered to
issue notes up to 400 millions, with the
right of temporary expansion, and that the
gold reserve should be fixed at 75 millions,
with the right to drop lower.
In some quarters this has been hailed as
a verdict in favor of inflation. It is
nothing of the kind. Inflation does not
depend at all upon the amount of gold
held in proportion to notes issued. There
can be the most violent inflation with gold
in abundance; and inflation can be com-
pletely absent even where there is no gold
or very little. The possibility of inflation
is born whenever we spend money. If
the money is not productive, the spending
is inflationary.
There is no more ruinous form of infla-
tion than the non-balancing of Budgets.
It means that banks are drawn upon to
make good the deficit. That • is to say,
bank cash, instead of being made the basis
for industrial credits—which means the
production of capital—is used up to pay
public-service wages and salaries—which
means the consumption of capital. When
a bank lends for commercial purposes, the
money returns to it as soon as the job for
which the loan was made is done; w r hen
a, bank lends to make good a Government
deficit, there is no string tied to the loan.
It produces nothing, and cannot, therefore,
repay the lender.
Whether the supply of money is inflationary
depends not upon the gold in hand but
upon the legitimate trade demand for
money. When production is brisk there is
need for more money than when it is stag-
nant; and the supply that is insufficient
at one time is more than sufficient at the
other. Money, of course, does not mean
merely notes and coins. Money (for inter-
nal purposes, at any rate) consists, as well,
of deposits which can be drawn on by
cheque; and in their turn deposits are
chiefly the proceeds of loans made by
banks: you get an overdraft, for example,
and the practical effect is that the bank
puts the amount of the loan on deposit
to your credit. But a bank’s capacity to
make loans is limited by the amount of
cash which it has. It does not actually
lend the cash; what it really lends is its
credit, which is as good as money and
passes for it; only the bank must hold a
certain amount of cash to protect its credit.
And that brings us back to the British
proposals for printing more notes in cer-
tain circumstances. The whole world—
including the U.S.A.—learned a great deal
from the American experience after 1914.
While gold was flowing into the country
the policy of the Central Banks was to
limit bank cash to the needs of production;
and it is the development of this policy
which promises to have a tremendous influ-
ence upon monetary policy in general. As
we have seen, the supply of money largely
governs production, and therefore price;
and the supply of money is largely gov-
erned by deposits, which are largely gov-
erned by advances, which are largely
governed by the supply of bank cash; and
Central Banks—the Bank of England in
Britain—can govern the supply of bank
cash. So the Macmillan Committee reaches
the conclusion that the constitution of the
Bank of England ought to be made less
rigid; that it ought to be equipped to exert
a larger influence on conditions of trade
and industry; and that to this end the
supply of gold matters less than a close
study of and adherence to business require-
ments. What those business requirements
are can be best determined by the move-
ments of the price level.
That the present price level calls for
attention is beyond all question; and it is
to be greatly desired that part at least of
the Macmillan report may be put into
effect. The same considerations apply to
Australia. We want more credit; but the
limit of our credit has been reached because
of the monstrous drain upon bank cash,
due to (1) the failure of Governments to
economise and live within their means;
(2) the crushing burden of taxation and of
labor conditions, which has checked pro-
duction and prevented the growth of capi-
tal. We can get credit again when we have
removed the causes which previously sub-
merged it.
THE CONVERSION CHORUS.
A large number of decent Australians who
invested their all in Government loans are
in a devil of a quandary over the Conver-
sion scheme. They have no possible doubt
as to the vital and urgent need for a sub-
stantial reduction of Australia’s interest
bill. Nor have they the least objection to
sharing in the national sacrifice to the
extent of a quarter of their income, more
if necessary. They recognise it as the
merest commonsense and honesty that, the
household having involved itself in debt,
every member of the family should con-
tribute towards paying off the liabilities,
even if it means stinting themselves of
some of the luxuries which they have been
enjoying in the good years. They realise,
too, that many were unthrifty in the good
times, but they are quite willing to help in
keeping a roof over the heads of the
prodigals, and food on the table for them.
They feel rather hurt and indignant when
the prodigals call them grasping profiteers
and blood-suckers, and express the inten-
tion of taking all that they have saved
by thrift and self-denial in the good years;
but this does not affect their sense of jus-
tice.
What does worry the Australian of this
category is the uncertainty that his sacri-
fice will be allowed to have any real or
lasting effect in putting Australia on her
financial legs again. It is not the sacrifice
itself that he is dubious about, but the men
who are asking him to make it. Day in
and day out a chorus of raucous voices
proclaims the need for sacrifice—by him
especially. They are the same old voices
which eight months ago were telling him that
if he coughed up another £25,000,000 Aus-
tralia would be saved for ever from default,
industry would flourish as never before,
investments would be safe in perpetuity,
and unemployment would be banished. He
produced the 25 millions and more, to the
great satisfaction of Mr. Lyons in Australia
and Mr. Scullin in England.
Then Mr. Scullin came back and remarked
that a little mistake had been made, and
that the £29,000,000 had, so to speak,
slipped through a crack in the floor, but that
Mr. Theodore was coming down from Mun-
gana to show how salvation and industry
and investments and employment could
really be secured. So Mr. Lyons said
that he didn’t pretend to be a financier,
but only Honest Joe, and gave up being a
Labor man and got a nice -job under the
Opposition. The £29,000,000 seems to have
stayed down the crack, and nobody appears
to know what became of it.
When Mr. Theodore came along from
Mungana he explained that the whole secret
of getting rich quickly was merely a matter
of printing pound notes and paying off all
the old debts with them. If pound notes
were not enough it was just as easy to
print fivers and tenners, and much more
economic. Mr. Lyons did not agree with
Mr. Theodore, and was very patriotic and
dignified over it. Finally, however, Mr.
Theodore explained that he had been mis-
understood, and that the real need was
equality of sacrifice.
Then Mr. Scullin, and Mr. Theodore,
and Mr. Lyons, and even Mr. Latham,
whose nice job had been given to Mr.
Lyons for getting the £29,000,000 which
had slipped through the crack in the floor,
all began broadcasting the glad news that
Austialia was going to be saved again
that is, unless Mr. Lang did something
nasty and capsized the apple-cart. As Mr.
Lang seems to be intensely busy in an
endeavor to get in first with a grab that
will put N.b.W. investors out of court as a
contributing factor in any conversion, the
prospects of success are a trifle dubious.’ The
Voices express a gloomy opinion that if the
scheme fails the lenders may get 12s in
the £, or nothing at all. This indicates that
Mr. Lang is to serve as the excuse if there
are any more cracks in the floor. But the
Voices don’t seem to do anything useful in
the way of checking Mr. Lang in his wild
career, although there are several obvious
courses, most of which have been suggested
by The Bulletin during recent weeks.
At one stage there was a rav of hope
when the A.F.A. appeared; but the A.F.A.
seems to have shared the lot of all bright
amateur reform movements which attract
the cold, efficient attention of the political
machine. A little careful fostering of
private jealousies, a little intimidation here,
a little—say, compromise, for bribery is a
nasty word—there, a little business pressure
on this one, and a little social squeeze on
that, and all the fireworks gutter out. It
is an oft-told tale.
It is not the sacrifice that is worrying the
thrifty Australian, but the distrust of
Jacob’s voice, although it appears to come
from under the hairy, honest pelt of Esau.
He realises that it is the same old gang,
and he has come to regard the old gang as
constitutionally unable to put up anything
without a swindle hidden in it somewhere.
Nevertheless, however much he distrusts the
old gang, the thinking Australian must
realise that there is no alternative to con-
version. The only consolation is that the
breaking-point has come, and, whatever
swindle the old gang has up its sleeve, it
will not have the pluck to produce it until
the country has had some time to recover.
By then, he hopes, the old gang may have
been put out of the power of mischief, as
effectually as Mr. W. M. Hughes was, and
for the same good reasons.
SAKURA.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The A.F.A.
The A.F.A. has made the same mistake as
most modem political bodies. It has incor-
porated too much in its “draft policy.”
Elective Ministries; the initiative, referen-
dum and recall; a new Federal Convention
and a new Federal Constitution; the dis-
couragement of “additional Parliaments”;
the establishment of a permanent body to
advise the Government on finance, eco-
nomics and industry; a Federal tribunal to
regulate basic wage and hours of industry
throughout the Commonwealth (“the basic
wage to have due regard to the main-
tenance of a reasonable standard of living”)
—these and a dozen other things are in-
cluded in its policy.
It is possible to get many men to honestly
agree about one or two matters of first
importance: whether, for instance, the de-
velopment of class consciousness is a good
thing and whether Communism ought to
be encouraged or discouraged in Australia.
But when an attempt is made to get a
large body of men to subscribe to 50 things,
many of them highly contentious, the seeds
are sown either of disruption or of dictation.
Either members will fall away as this or
that section of the policy is pressed for
by a small group of zealots, or a machine
will be created which will push the policy
forward without the smallest regard to the
will of members. It is thus-we have reached
a position where a mere handful of men
can make a country’s laws. The Labor
party, for example, is no longer a body of
men who think alike on a few important
matters. It is a body which demands of its
members that they shall support the ruling
majority on practically all matters. Nothing
could be more subversive of democracy.
Although 24 out of 50 Labor members of
Parliament might be opposed to something,
and though the entire 45 members of the
Opposition might also be opposed to it,
the 26 would carry the 50 with them; which
means that on that matter, whatever it
might be, 26 members would impose their
will upon the other 69. That is the effect
of binding members of a party down, not
to one or two or even three things upon
which they are all agreed, but upon some
scores; and in practice it is a small step then
to binding them down to everything.
The A.F.A. has its place in Australia —a
very important place, but a very difficult
one to fill. It was, and still ought to be,
the revivalist in politics, not caring what
political camp the convert joined so long as
he carried his zeal for reform and straight
living wherever he went. There is vast
scope for such a missionary association;
but it will have to take no notice of the
gibe that it is not constructive, rejoicing
rather in the fact that it isn’t, but that
its purpose is to lay better foundations for
others to build upon.
4
Pacifism in Action.
By way of reminding the Government that
its first duty is to defend the Common-
wealth, Colonel White, the M.H.R. for
Balaclava (Vic.), recently declared “that
the strength of the British Fleet has been
whittled down until its personnel is only
about equal to that of Japan.” The facts
may not be quite as startling as that, but


as revealed by the Prime Minister in the
House of Commons at the end of June they
are disquieting enough.
Comparing 1914 and 1931, British Empire
battleships have decreased from 89 to 15,
cruisers from 131 to 59, destroyers and tor-
pedo-boats from 368 to 120. There are also
40 fewer submarines. Dominion squadrons
are included in the return. Naval ex-
penditure in terms of present-day money
values shows a reduction of £23,500,000 in
the United Kingdom, an increase of
£36,000,000 in the U.S.A., and an in-
crease of £11,000,000 in Japan. British
Army expenditure was £40,000,000 in 1914,
and will be practically the same in 1931,
but the charges, pay included, have heavily
increased. On the other hand, the military
expenditure of France is costing £20,000,000
and that of the U.S.A. and Italy £15,000,000
more than in 1925.
A day or two after these alarming dis-
closures were made the French Senate voted
credits for building eight warships in 1931
and six more in 1932, and another
£20,000,000 for frontier fortifications, on
which £11,500,000 has already been spent.
France is arming, not against Britain—only
fools believe the knaves who say that—but
against old enemies and new who may be
emboldened by the confessed results of the
British disarmament policy which has been
carried to such dangerous lengths.
Meanwhile, how do we stand in Aus-
tralia? A Government of pacifists has
reduced the fighting ships of the R.A.N. to
two cruisers and one torpedo-boat. It has
abandoned what was left of compulsory
military training and recruited about two-
thirds of the former trainees, together with
a few Diggers, as volunteers. Last year it
ruthlessly rationed warrant officers and
higher ranks, while sparing the Defence
Department clerks—they, of course, have
a powerful trade union. This year it is dis-
couraging volunteers and staff alike by
dispensing with camps, reducing the period
of training, limiting the strength of the army
to 30,000, and sacking the physical instruc-
tors. At the same time, it has added a sort
of quota system to the Immigration Re-
striction Act; in other words, it is exclud-
ing immigrants belonging to powerful and
ambitious European nations as well as
Asiatics. Scores of thousands of young Aus-
tralians are out of work and have to be
kept. They share the aptitude for arms that
distinguished the Diggers, and it would be
no bad way of giving them something to
do and removing them from Communistic
influence to enrol them as recruits and
allow them something for attending drill-
halls and training camps. There they would
come under the influence of A.I.F. veterans,
who are not only accomplished soldiers,
but men of fine character.
This pacifist Government of ourjs, in
common with the pacifist Government of
Great Britain, is taking grave risks. Both
Administrations lack imagination, and lack
of imagination may be the ruin of us.
— «
The Crisis in N. S. Wales.
Sir Philip Game, taking a narrow view of
his duties, has hitherto turned aside from
the exercise of his undoubted rights to
send his Ministers to the people. The
results have been disastrous and threaten
still greater disaster. Last week Lang found
that, as the natural and inevitable result of
his policy, he could no longer carry on the
government. Indeed, he has been able to
carry on thus far only by refusing to pay
interest to those British investors who might
reasonably expect to enjoy the special pro-
tection of the Governor. Now, even after
refusing to pay those very people who had
put up the money to enable Labor to carry
out its policy of public ownership and con-
trol, Lang found that he would be unable
to pay for the ordinary services of the State;
and the lying braggart, who promised the
people before the general election that
under his rule there would be no shortage
of money, had to crawl to the Loan Council,
representing the other States and the Com-
monwealth, and beg for money to pay the
month’s bills.
One thing is certain, this man cannot be
permitted to carry _on any further. He
has been able to do it thus far only by com-
pelling other States, far poorer than N. S.
Wales and in far greater real distress, to
pay his debts. They will not and they
cannot go on doing it, and there is not a
self-respecting man in the State who would
ask them to do it. If they carry Lang
over this further difficulty it can only be on
terms which will override the Lang policy;
and even that, in view of past experience,
will most certainly be accompanied by safe-
guards such as we are accustomed to re-
quire from confidence men.
In the circumstances only three courses
seem proper. There should be an immediate
appeal to the country, financial arrange-
ments having been first made with the
Loan Council; or the Commonwealth
should take over the government of the
State and put it under Commission; or an
Emergency Ministry should be set up, not
for legislative, but almost wholly for adminis-
trative, purposes. Of the three courses the
first would have been the best had his
Excellency taken the proper steps to bring
it about on his Ministers’ first act of repudi-
ation. The second would be based upon
that provision of the Constitution which
empowers the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment “to make laws” with respect to
“matters referred to the Parliament of the
Commonwealth by the Parliament or Par-
liaments of any State or States, but so that
the law shall extend only to States by
whose Parliaments the matter is referred,
or which afterwards adopt the law.” It is
an untried power conferred on the Com-
monwealth Parliament; and the existing
Commonwealth Parliament, elected, as was
the State Parliament of N. S. Wales, on a
tissue of lies and false promises, has not
done so well that we should be inclined
to hand over the government of N. S.
Wales to it without great hesitation. There
remains the alternative of an Emergency
Government, chosen not merely from
present members of Parliament, but from
such specialists as can be brought in from
outside and called at once to the Leg.
Council.
If, however, neither of these latter courses
should be practicable, owing to the opposi-
tion of a majprity in the Assembly, the
only one available would be an appeal to
the people; and for that we shall still be
dependent on the Governor. But even
Sir Philip Game must realise that there is
a point at which his Ministers forfeit his
confidence; and that point surely is reached
when they cannot carry on without forsak-
ing their policy. The Bulletin suggests
that, while his Excellency , may feel himself
bound to accept the advice of his Ministers,
however preposterous, he must refuse to
accept the advice of people not known to
him—in this case the Premiers and Trea-
surers of other States. As soon as his Minis-
ters are forced by outside pressure to
abandon their own policy, and under pres-
sure adopt that of others, his Excellency
must surely dismiss them. For the posi-
tion is reached then that not they but others
unknown to him are in fact his Ministers.
♦
The Sunshine Route.
This human document is from a man who
has written many a good thing for The
Bulletin :
Here, in Queensland, the workless may draw
rations to the extent of ss. every Tuesday—provided
ARMAMENTS
FOR SALE
THE SPLENDID PAUPER.
"The Reichstag has received a demand that the Chamber shall be convened, in view of what is called ‘the attempt of
the French and the English to rob Germany of the remnants of her sovereignty.’”
LITTLE JOHNNY BULL: “But if Fritzie can afford the pocket-battleship, why should the French boy and I have to give him
our pennies?”
they keep on travelling. You must not draw rations
on successive Tuesdays in the same place.
I drew rations for the first time on Tuesday last
in Innisfail. I pulled in there about 3 a.m., having
travelled the intervening 100-odd miles in a goods
truck from down Ingham way. Came up under a
tarpaulin, which was handy, on account of the rain.
The truck, however, had carried fertiliser and was
pungent. Twenty-one other bagmen dropped off that
same train in the early morning at Innisfail.
Word went about that the unemployed were
camped on the Showground, so we made out there,
singly, in pairs and in batches. The unemployed were
there. They were spread out all over the grand-
stand, in stewards’ boxes, under every available piece
of cover. Heavy clouds hung about ready to squeeze
out their moisture on the slightest provocation. Any
sort of shelter is welcome up here. I looked out
the least wet part of the grandstand uncovered by
a human form, and there lay down.
About seven there was stirring. The blokes got
up from soggy blankets and went down underneath
the grandstand to boil their billies. Damp wood
was coaxed gently into flames in rusty tins. There
was plenty of tea. Not much else. It’s hard to
stretch five-bob’s worth of rations over a week.
At the police-station at 9 a.m. we handed in our
travellers’ ration cards, and were given a five-bob
ticket on a local store. About 70 drew rations. We
were let in in twos into the cash and carry, so it
took about three hours to put the mob through.
W T hen you’ve got to spin five bob over a week, it
takes some consideration. I drew 2 loaves, 1 tin
syrup, lib. cheese, Jib. tea, 2oz. tobacco, 1 tin
matches. Strictly speaking, tobacco is no part of
the sustenance; but most storekeepers are also of
God’s creation.
It is now Friday, June 12, and I’m writing this
on the waterfront in Cairns (230 miles from Towns-
ville; I left there a week ago). You can get a
lift on the road easy enough, but not much else
nowadays. “How is she for a feed?” “How is she
for a hand-out up here?” I hear some of the
blokes asking. The answer generally is “No
good.” But it’s not the fault of the people. They
couldn’t possibly support the vast army that is
continually passing by.
And where are we going? That is the tragic
part. We don’t know. It doesn’t seem to matter.
We’ve been north, south, east and west, and it
doesn’t seem to be of any use. “I’m just travelling
for rations,” a fellow told me the other day—
and he said he’d never been out of work before in
his life.
If it lasts much longer we’ll be walking about
naked. I have seen hundreds that, literally, have
not a shirt to their back. Few, very few, are
decently shod. They’re mostly getting about in
ragged sandshoes.
And withal, the morale of this deathless army is
surprising. No army ever went half so cheerily,
half so far, on emptier stomachs. And here among
them I have recaptured something of that sense of
real comradeship which made the war a thing of
lasting recollection.
«
Trade Agreement with Canada.
A cheekful interlude in Australia’s tale of
woe is the completion of a reciprocal
agreement with Canada which is expected
to benefit our export trade by some four
millions a year, and is moreover a valuable
contribution to inter-Dominion comity.
It will have to be ratified by the Parlia-
ments of the respective countries; but,
though opposition may be expected from
the Canadian butter-farming interests in
particular, this is not likely to go beyond
protest. The items of export under which
Australia will chiefly benefit are butter,
fresh fruit, canned and dried fruits and
wines. The agreement practically bars out
Australia’s most formidable rival in the
last three lines named, California. Canada
will have the benefit of a preferential rate
on such specialties as timber, newsprint
and salmon. This should prove particularly
welcome to the salmon-packers, who have
been hard hit by the Siberian product
canned by Russian slave labor. Dumping
laws of either country will not apply to
goods coming under the agreement, but
primage rates will still be levied on Cana-
dian goods imported, in addition to the
sales tax.
How greatly, from our point of view, the
trade balance was in need of redressing
may be seen from the fact that for
1929-30 we took goods worth £3,502,421
from Canada and sold that country only
£743,742 worth.
»
An Attack on New Guinea.
Nothing has done so much to bring trades
unions into discredit as the disregard of
others’ interests and convenience so con-
stantly exhibited by those who speak for
them. An outstanding example was offered
when a deputation from the marine
stewards asked Prime Minister Scullin to
re-apply the provisions of the disastrous
Navigation Act to Mandated New Guinea
and Papua. The reason put forward was
that, since the suspension of the Act in
regard to these territories, foreign shippers
have established an increasing trade with
both. These vessels, it was complained, did
not employ members of the stewards’ or
any other Australian union, and this was
felt to be a grave injustice.
The deputation characteristically ignored
the fact that the re-imposition of the Act
would most certainly tend to the ruin of
Papuan and New Guinea trading enter-
prises. Its suspension some years ago
resulted in increased opportunity for both
territories to ship copra and other products
direct to markets, instead of having them
hauled to Sydney at expensive rates, there
to be reshipped to oversea buyers at added
expense and with further delay in delivery.
Ihe change for the better was so marked
after the suspension that the administra-
tors of both Papua and New Guinea dwelt-
in their reports on the good results which
rapidly accrued from the abolition of what
had proved so heavy a handicap that the
territories had been stagnating to ruin. In
spite of the fall in the prices of Island
produce, the territories have since managed
to cany on fairly well, thus lessening the
financial burden on the Commonwealth.
It is not to be thought of that these (and
particularly Papua, for New Guinea has
nowadays a considerable gold output to
fall back upon) should be driven again to
the verge of bankruptcy. Scullin, charac-
teristically flabby, promised to call for
reports on the matter from the Administra-
tors of the territories concerned. It may
be assumed at once that these will be over-
whelmingly in favor of the continuation of
the present policy.
4
Russia’s Wheat.
There is no need to look for sinister
motives in the Soviet’s attempt to put its
wheat surplus on the markets of the world
while its people are semi-starved at home.
Since Stalin decided that Russia could only
regain its imperial strength by adopting
state capitalism, he has followed the inevit-
able course of equipping the inefficient
moujik with as much machinery as he can
afford. While he is waiting for the
machinery, and while it is being installed,
the moujik will naturally have to dispense
with some of his material needs, in order to
establish credit abroad.
Russia, in short, is repeating economic
history as it has manifested itself in every
primitive community when it has set out
to industrialise itself. The misery, short
rations and long hours that prevailed in
England at the beginning of the age of steel
were as inevitable as the misery and short
commons now prevailing in India, China and
to a less extent Japan. If the Soviet
leaders can induce their docile followers
to stay on the bread-line long enough.
Unholy Russia must eventually become a
great manufacturing country, the standards
of living will slowly rise as they are rising
in Japan, the needs and the purchasing
power of the people will increase and there
will be a great impetus to the commerce of
the world. But the machine-guns and the
knouts will whistle a few staves before that
day arrives.
♦
The Distress in Europe.
No wonder the world jibs at financing Ger-
many ! It has close on 6,000,000 unem-
ployed, and is faced with a currency prob-
lem similar to that which brought France
to the verge of bankruptcy in 1926. Capital
is pouring out of the country, though private
banks are rationing their customers on a
£5-a-day basis, and no more than £1 a day
can be withdrawn by a savings bank de-
positor. “The pawnshops,” said a cable
last Monday, “are doing a roaring trade.
Well-to-do people and middle-class citizens
are pledging odds and ends to get a little
ready cash. The trade unions are unable
to raise funds to meet repayments for
benefits.”
Yet the Fatherland is clinging to its
“pocket-battleship,” which was designed
frankly to outwit Britain and France in their
efforts to check German navalism. The
French terms at the conference of Powers
now sitting in London are that “Germany
must not increase her military expenditure
and must adhere to the European status
quo.” It looks as if nothing except sheer
lack of money will persuade Germany to
agree.


■Si
I.A
■
“ Fve been smoking them for
over five years and have never
found them vary one iota!”
CRAVEN “A’
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 IQQ for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
PLITICAL
POINTS
Lang has applied to the Loan Council,
which he quitted in scorn, fpt an advance of
£500,000 at once and a further £2,000.000
in August and £1,000,000 in September, fail-
ing which he wall be unable to pay the public
servants. As the public-service organisations
toiled hard to put him in office at last elec-
tion, taking his ridiculous promises at face
value, this doesn’t excite as much sympathy
as it should. Lang also says that he will
keep on failing to pay interest on the N.S.W.
public debt, and depositors in the Savings
Bank that lie wrecked —even the school
children—are still without their money. There
is no explanation why the richest State in
Australia should be in this stupendous hole
while the others struggle along somehow,
except that. Lang is a crude experimental
ass. ‘ He alleges that ex-Treasurer Stevens
and the. numerically small Opposition “con-
spired” against him, but then every Oppo-
sition conspires against the Ministry all the
time, so that doesn’t explain the awful
results, and the awful bitterness of John
Thomas.
Lang has all the marks of the old remit-
tance man. Most families turn out a fool
or a rogue of the sort sooner or later. With
the same chances as the rest he makes a mess
of things, generally by being a wastrel,, and
then he starts loafing' on his brothers and
sisters, and getting abusive when he can’t
“Lend us another coupla millions, Jimmy?”
“Not another copper unless you sign the
pledge.”
have his own way. Finally he is such an
expensive nuisance that all hands agree to
make him a regular allowance if he will
leave the country. Lang has reached the
point where it would pay the other States
handsomely to make a remittance man of
him —though Heaven knows where they
could dump him.
The Bulletin’s plan of giving Australian
farmers Protection through a sales tax is
being pushed by the U.S.A. in another
direction. Uncle Sam is paying 23 million
dollars a year, ostensibly for carrying sea-
mails, really for foreign-going ship subsi-
dies, and soon will be paying 30 millions.
Having money to burn, Samuel is pouring it
into these subsidised ships, 100 of which are
being built at a cost of 300 million dollars.
He is out after foreign trade with both
hands; and he knows he must either pay sub-
sidies to get it or else cut wages. Aus-
tralia’s only possible answer is a high tariff
to shut things out and a sales tax or other
subsidy system to help those who produce
for export.
The Commission which is considering the
case of the Westralian farmer is expected
to have something to say about excessive
port charges. It was told by the secretary
of the wheat pool that the average loading
cost for wheat vessels is a little over 6s. per
ton at Fremantle, 2s. 2d. to 2s. lid. at Cana-
dian ports, 4s. lid.' at Buenos Aires and
3s. 4d. at Capetown. Naturally the Govern-
ment draw's bloated revenues from the Har-
bor Trust, which proudly announced that
it had “earned” £200,529 more than working
expenses, interest and sinking fund in 1929-
30. It is a stupid way of taxing the pro-
ducers.
J. Bull’s Ram Mac Government increased
expenditure by £12.000.000 in 1929-30 and
by another £52,000,000 in 1930-31. The
number of unemployed on the dole was 97
per 1000 when it took office and had soared
to 199 per 1000 at the end of 1930. Still
it has to be said for the Rammacs that they
don’t cover up the dreadful truth. They
publish their unemployed returns —Lang
conceals his.
Because reduction of Ministers’ salaries is
among the things provided for in the Vic.
Financial Emergency Bill, an absolute
majority of members of the Assembly was
required for the second reading. Not being
sure of that number last week Hogan had
tlie division deferred till last night. There
were 32 supporters on hand most of the
time (nine was about the size of the
minority), but he needed 33.
With 87.6 p.c. voting, the N. S. Wales
wheat farmers heavily rejected the compul-
sory pool proposal, 7277 being for and 9789
against. When a two-tliirds majority was
required (a simple majority would have
sufficed this time), 8795 were for and 5736
against in September, 1929 ; 10,406 for and
6153 against in September, 193(>—Lang was
promising the farmers 7s. 6d. a bushel then.
The result is: a blow to Dunn, who imagined
that the farmers set immense store- on his
advice. He had a bit of a following, but it
is disintegrating rapidly since he started
spouting Sydney mob politics in obsequious
imitation of the man who threw him out of
the Ministry in 1927.
Hugh Langwell, chairman of flip N.S.W.
Western Lands Board, was badly, roasted
last week before the Commission which is
inquiring into the board’s lax methods.
Judged by city standards, of course, they are
lax. But the board was appointed really
because city standards didn’t suit the Far
West. Land-board chairmen like MacFarlane
and Thompson and Trollope spent half their
official days setting out reasons why the
law shouldn’t be enforced in this case or
that; and in hundreds of instances for-
feiture was avoided by the simple process
of hanging things up indefinitely. That was
the school Langwell was brought up in, and
it was a school specially set up to meet the
peculiar needs of the country it dealt with.
Queensland Premier Moore was outspoken
the other day on the subject of the bad girl
of the family, Jacqueline Lang. Banana-
land is fed lip with helping to keep N.S.W.,
as personified by the, Langsters, on the dole
while their leader is persistently refusing to
tackle imperative jobs lying ready to hand
and wasting time and substance on Parlia-
mentary jazz and repudiation cocktails.
Moore’s remedy is to cut off supplies and
leave the Impenitent Politician to earn a
living by taking in his own washing.
“Labor will restore the 44-hour week,”
said Slang in his policy speech ; and his mob
did restore it —it was the one election
promise which has been fulfilled. But the
“reason” he gave at Auburn was characteris-
tic—“the 44-hour week in N. S. Wales was
responsible for less unemployment, better
wages, higher production, lower wage costs
and greater profits than the 48-hour week
in Victoria.” Only mugs believed him then,
and although mugs still surround him wher-
ever he goes not even Slang would dare to
say it now. There may be limits to the
credulity of even Sydney mugs.
Queensland Government is undecided
whether to rehabilitate the Leg. Council by
Act of Parliament this year or to let the
thing go to a referendum. It has a notion
of reducing the Assembly membership to 62
and of making that of the Council one-half,
with a president appointed for life but retir-
ing at 70. He will be nominated by the
Crown, as will 15 members chosen from
representatives of industries and vocations:
15 others will be elected, one-third retiring
every three years.
Some northern N.S.W. coalminers indulged
in a strike which lasted a week or so over
the sacking of a wheeler who had failed to
give satisfaction. The demand for the youth’s
replacement threatened at one time to
develop into a general stoppage, but the
employers gave in to avoid industrial revolu-
tion. The latest complete figures are for
1929. Number of working days lost in that
year in quarrels of one kind and another: —
T» r u a in 1 8,287,000 days, or about one-
“( sixth of a day per inhabitant.
Australia.. .. 14,461,478 days, or about four-
l sixths of a day per inhabitant,
f 3,146,038 days, or about a
N.S.W. (separately) -j day and one-sixth (say seven-
[ sixths of a day) per inhabitant.
Why the N. S. Welsher should be seven
times as liable to leave off work in a huff as
the Briton, and also about four times as
liable to do so as any other Australian, isn’t
explained.
The latest testimonial to our colored
brother, beloved by all really good people,
including Mrs. Jellaby and her kind, has
been supplied by Bishop Batty, of New-
castle (N.S.W.) :
The European races cannot claim superiority over
the colored races, either in intellect or physique.
Their superiority is mainly, if not entirely, a military
superiority.
And the bishop might explain what the
white man’s military superiority consists of
except intellect. Perhaps he and his colored
brother were level when the two-legged race
was young, but the white intellect kept moving
and inventing things, while the colored one
lagged behind in various stages of arrested
development. Some samples got as far, un-
aided, as the bow-and-arrow stage, while a
few, like Binghi of Australia, left off at a
crude weapon thrown by hand.
A flagrant breach of Slang’s 44-hour-week
law is reported in the “Agricultural Gazette.”
A Nowra cow-farmer, whose milk and cream
were graded “inferior” at the factory though
his place was admitted to be scrupulously
clean, sought help from the department, which
sent down a man with apparatus for taking
the reductose test. He arrived at the farm on
Friday, and according to Sydney law and
practice he should have knocked off at five
o’clock that afternoon and rested till Mon-
day morning; but “enthusiasm caused him to
persevere throughout Friday and Saturday
to midnight on each day, and to mid-day on
Sunday.” Then he posted to the factory for
further tests; in fact, he kept going till he
had traced the trouble to its source—a' cow
that had had mammitis and was thought to
have recovered. A man like that does more
real good than a cartload of Piddingtons—
and gets about a tithe of “Piddo’s” salary.
J. T. Lang is no student of history, but
his present impecuniosity might give the
following passage from Macaulay a certain
interest for him :
In old times when the Treasury was empty it had
been necessary for the Chancellor of the Exchequer
to go, hat in hand, up and down Cheapside and
Cornhill, attended by the Lord Mayor and aldermen,
borrowing £lOO from this hosier and £2OO from
that ironmonger.
In a borrowing expedition up and down
Pitt and George streets the co-operation of
the Mayor and aldermen would scarcely
carry the weight it did in Tudor days.
Finding that the allowances given to suf-
ferers from miners’ phthisis are being
abused, Vic. Cabinet has ordered an over-
haul of the system. One beneficiary drawing
£6 a quarter had £lOOO in the bank. In 1930-
31 the allowances cost £36,000 altogether;
they are additional in many cases to the old-
age or invalid pension, and they may be
reduced by half in 1931-32.
Davidson, the foolish N.S.W. Minister of
No-Works, has told a deputation of wharf-
laborers that he will ask his Cabinet to
restrict the issue of licenses to members of
the Waterside Workers’ Federation. This
is looking for trouble. Sydney was exempted
from the license provisions, the port workers
having obeyed the Beeby award; and Fed-
eration and other men have got along without
friction. There is enough unemployment
about as it is without a Minister of the
Crown going out of his way to act as an
agent provocateur.
Lang is the victim of circumstances, being
confined within limits that are much too
small for his bellowing soul. He might be
a big Bolshevik if N.S.W. were larger, and
had ten times the population, and started
its Bolshevik career as a sovereign State
instead of being only part of a Common-
wealth which is itself part of an Empire,
and if it had an army and navy of its own,
and if its capital were a city difficult of
access, like Moscow. As the situation stands
he is like a pirate demonstrating in a pond,
and signalling to his enemies ashore for pro-
visions on tick.
“Having raked Ministers fore and aft regarding
expenses charged to the taxpayers, Mr. J. Moses Gabb
has turned his attention to the matter of joyriding
in Government cars. This, he says, is rampant.”
“I’ll find out how jar these birds have been.
They can’t beat old Diogenes Moses.”
Reviewing the reduction of costs in the
Railway Department since his Govern-
ment arrived, Queensland Minister Morgan
told a deputation that it amounted to
£1,250,000. Unfortunately revenue had
dropped in almost the same ratio as expendi-
ture, and annual loss was still about a mil-
lion and a half. Morgan says that if he
could write oif 30 millions of the capital in-
debtedness. which is reckoned at 63 millions,
he could ciit fares 10 to 15 per cent, and
goods rates as well —another 10 per cent.,
he suggests, could come off the wool and
livestock charges; but interest would still
have to be met, and the Labor Government
left no source of tax-revenue untapped.
It’s not a bad idea to have the N.S.W.
Government lottery inaugurated with a pro-
cession, the barrel containing the marbles
being “borne through the streets by four
white horses” ; still, the programme, as pub-
lished, could be improved on. The great fact
to be brought out is that the lottery has
nothing to do with the Savings Bank, the
Rural Bank, the nine-million deficit, the Lang
Imaginative picture of Mr. Whiddon clothed
all in casketry.
plan or anything like that. Its purity is un-
spotted, and a twentieth-century version of
the Lady Godiva act, with Mr. Whiddon in
the leading part, would emphasise this most
effectively. Mr. Whiddon is an obliging old
gentleman, and would make a line show-
riding up Pitt-street “clothed all in chastity”
—police regulations, of course, permitting.
Said Slang in the letter to the Governor,
the publication of which flabbergasted that
functionary: “To me the idea of honors is
repellent, to my party abhorrent, and some
of the nominations are distinctly objection-
able.” The final proposition is characteris-
tically inconsistent with the other two. If
all titles are viewed by Lang and his Labor-
ites with the maximum of loathing, it is
difficult to see how the recommendation of
one person by some rival Government can
be any more objectionable than that of an-
other. The Rev. Hammond, one takes it.
would be no less and no more annoyed if
you sought to press a brandy or a gin on
him than if you invited him to join you in
a whisky, a rum or even a beer.
“Lex” : It is odd to hear John Thomas
Lang talking as if the Privy Council decision
on the Upper House matter were likely to be
given at any moment. There is no chance
of the case coming on before the end of the
year; it isn’t on this term's list, and the
next term doesn’t begin till after the Long
Vacation. It may even be left out of the
autumn list, as there are understood to be
some big Indian appeals before it. The Privy
Council is the most gradual, as well as the
most costly, jurisdiction on earth. As an
example of the lavish scale on which it
operates, the whole of the original proceed-
ings have to be laid before their ludships in
the form of printed and bound books. “No
heat and no haste” is the slogan of all who
figure in the aloof Downing-street court,
where no wigs are worn, and where an advo-
cate who raises his voice above a conversa-
tional level, or indulges in rhetoric, is looked
on as a barbarian.
“Titus Salt” : On, July 12 the Orangemen
held their annual festival in Australia to
celebrate the battle of Aughrim, which hap-
pened about 12,000 miles away and 240
years ago. The event took place on an island
about the size of Tasmania. There were a
few men commanded by a Frenchman named
St. Ruth on one side, and a few under a
Dutchman called Ginkel on the other. Popu-
lation being small, soldiers were few. The
weapons were antiquated, and no Australians
were present. Why the memory of this
mouldy storm in a teacup should be agitated
here only the cockroaches can tell, but a
parson named Rev. Scarth Fleming tore the
atmosphere into tatters at Sydney Town
Hall on the 12th, and urged all and sundry
to keep clear of Communism and Romanism.
It was a curious mix-up. During the war
some millions of Roman Catholics fought
valiantly on the side of the Allies —Belgians.
Frenchmen and Italians chiefly, the last-
named being the countrymen of the Pope.
Communists were all on the other side, and
are still there. When a parson puts the
two on an equality because he has got hot
under the collar on account of a scrimmage
which chanced on the other side of the
world on July 12, 1691, he mistakes the
relative sizes of things.


SOCIETU
“O’Higgins'’: Only O. Henry, with his
first-hand knowledge of South American
ways, could have done justice to a news item
brought to Sydney last week by the Chilean
naval training-ship. The General Baquedano
called at Easter Island, expecting to find
there, in addition to the permanent antiqui-
ties, a retired general who had been deported
to this isolated penitentiary for inciting troops
to mutiny and engaging in a plot to depose
the President. But the captive wasn’t there,
and the Governor was also missing. Wonder-
ing why the latter should have deserted his
post, the General B. went on to Papeete,
both flown birds were found. They
weren’t in the slightest perturbed, being no
longer on Chilean soil, and amiably explained
that the French, having been induced to
believe a film party was stranded on Easter
Island, had sent a boat for them. The dis-
tinguished exiles, it was added, are now in
Paris. What the Governor of Easter Island
has to govern, and what the job is worth in
a place where people aren’t expected to be
found unless they have been left there by
accident, wasn’t mentioned.
* * * *
“P.X.”: The English Order of Merit was
one of the late Edward’s best jokes. Cordi-
ally agreeing that there Avas no “damned
merit” about titles and orders in general,
he decided to institute one for Merit and
MATTERS OF NO CONSEQUENCE.
“A woman never forgets the first man who really-truly kissed her. Now, does she?”
“Don’t be silly. I don’t even remember the last one.”
nothing else. To distinguish it from all the
rest he decided further that this one shouldn’t
carry any precedence at all; that, in a mob,
the holder, if he was so silly as to want to
trail his honors, should trail after the small-
est C.M.G. or 0.8. E.; but that so long as it
was merely a matter of putting the thing on
paper, the O.M. should come next after the
Order of the Bath —that is, ahead of all the
Michaels and Georges and all the Stars of
India and the rest. And with a final cynic
touch he restricted his Order of Merit to 24
Until the other day no man who had ever
lived and worked long in Australia had
reached the 24: then Prof. Win. Bragg, for
many years at Adelaide Uni., arrived in the
distinguished Two Dozen. Queer, by the
way, that the two foremost workers in
radio-activity in Britain should both have
come from down under —Rutherford, of
Maoriland, and Bragg. Certainly Bragg
wasn’t born in these parts ; but his son, a
professor, too, and almost as famous, was
nursed in South Aus.
* # * *
“Icarus’,’: “To win a bet,” an enterprising
aeronaut left an air-liner at Brisbane at an
altitude of 3000 feet and dropped 1000 feet
before pulling the cord that opened the para-
chute. He landed safely, “to the complete
satisfaction of more than 5000 spectators.”
The satisfaction is understandable, and the
feat may have its value as setting certain
vexed questions at rest, but the inference is
that the other party to the wager could only
have won if something had gone wrong and
Ins co-wagerer had been dashed to pieces.
Few people would care to have a bet like that
on their minds.
* * *
“Guniga Tau”: In the police .courts of
Papua the oath is administered to Euro-
peans in the usual way, whereas native wit-
nesses, on the assumption that they are
unlikely to be made more truthful by being
obliged to kiss the book, are merely warned
that “Suppose you tell a lie you go to gaol.”
This distinction resulted in a native of the
Gulf Division walking into the Resident
Magistrate’s office recently and putting a
shilling on the table. An interpreter elicited
that the applicant wanted to buy a book
which would win court cases for him.
The R.M. asked for further information and
got this: “’E say when white man make im
court you give ’im this book, sir” [indicat-
ing the court Bible, which lay on the table].
“ ’E say white man ’e smell this book and ’e
say ‘my Gawd’ and ’e win ’im case, sir. ’E
say ’e want to buy that book!”
“Nikko”: I was once teaching in a country
school when the headmistress received a
visit from an infuriated parent who com-
plained that his son, a model child at home,
had been unjustly and unmercifully caned.
The teacher retorted that the youngster was
the most troublesome pupil in the school,
and invited the unbelieving parent to pause
some day outside the Venetian blind of the
schoolliouse and watch the model working.
This father did next day, and saw enough in
ten minutes’ vigil to convince him that home
and school were different places. The
first notification that .he had accepted
the offer came when the door flew open and
a large, red-faced individual dashed in, seized
an astounded youth by the coat collar, and
there and then administered a sound thrash-
ing. “And I don’t think he’ll trouble you
any more, Miss,” he concluded. He didn’t.
3s # * sfc
“Sol Malaprop”: A tale, which will doubt-
less be used to show how learning flourishes
under Communist rule, comes from Moscow,
where some professors are said to have dis-
covered how to make weather, or even how to
make climate, which is more permanent than
weather. Of course, the learned men may be
newspaper inventions, or they may be liars
who are trying to raise money with which
to leave the country, or they may be ignorant
professors (a terrible lot of learned pro-
fessors have fled, or died, or been put in gaol
during the past 15 years), and some wily
schemer may have sold them a pup. The
mixture or apparatus, so it is said, not only
“produces natural fluctuations of tempera-
ture but also wind and humidity,” so it is
evidently intended for outdoor use over exten-
sive areas and for long periods, there not
being space for much wind and humidity in
a shack. Whether the new artificial Com-
munist climate can be fixed for permanent
periods is a question. If it is a real big dis-
covery it may be used to unfreeze the north
of Russia and make an immense region
available for settlement, and it may even be
employed to dissolve the North Pole, so that
the icebergs and glaciers' will slide south-
ward on to the capitalistic countries below
them. In fact, if the Communistic Govern-
ment can make the invention a State secret,
and secure it by slaying the learned dis-
coverers, and if some member of the Govern-
ment doesn’t turn dog on his country and
give away the show, the Soviet Government
will be in a very strong position. And the
position wall be apparently impregnable if
the discovery includes how to reverse the
“Mary's husband seems a lot thinner."
“Yes, his firm’s reducing."
engine and produce cold, unexpected ice-
bergs, drought and dead<(in fact decomposed)
calms. Then some genius, inspired by the
hated capitalist, may invent a method of dis-
solving lies, and analysing and bottling the
same, and burst up this and a thousand other
myths by attacking them in the rear. A
myth hasn’t much show when attacked
scientifically from the rear.
* * ❖ Sfc
“Tattoo”: Without contesting that the
trans-Tasman flight of Chichester was a
splendid achievement, one may doubt if it
was such an extraordinary feat of naviga-
tion as “Limers” suggests (B. 8/7/’3l).
Although Lord Howe and Norfolk Islands
are both small they are comparatively
high, being marked respectively at 2840 ft.
and 1039 ft. on Admiralty charts. For
an observer at sea-level. Lord Howe
would be visible at a distance of 60
miles and Norfolk at 37, and if we add to
this the extra visibility due to the observer’s
own height, say, 2000 ft., the range of vision
would be increased by a further 50 miles.
This is assuming a clear day, and no doubt
Chichester picked his weather, which, for
such a short flight, could be fairly well
relied upon. Even if we reduce visibility
to 50 miles, they would be very unfore-
seen circumstances which would carry an
experienced airman 50 miles out of his
course on a 500-mile flight.
>1: •!* *•* V
“Hamfat”: The strike trouble which
Wirths’ Circus has encountered in S.A. is
by no means its first experience of such hap-
penings. The band has provided its full
share; on one occasion when the “mukes”
insisted on improved conditions, the show
invested in a mechanical band, an automa-
ton that emitted a vast blare of sound.
Later Phil Wirth was asked to re-employ
live musicians. “Why?” he demanded. “The
machine doesn’t kick, it doesn’t tease the
animals, it doesn’t go on strike, and it
doesn’t get drunk.” But the machine after
that did get drunk, mechanically speaking,
and the bandsmen returned.
* * * !!t
“Pelican” writes from Callan Park: —
We held a meeting in the pumpkin paddock to-day
and unanimously decided to form a society to assist
Mr. Lang; it was felt that, with so many ideas
going to waste here, it was unfair to ask him to
provide them all. We propose to supply him with
one per week (1 p.w.). We observe that in his
splendid effort to cut out work and obliterate the
employer he has so far moved wholly on the wages
side, adding a few pence now and then to the pay.
We offer a more direct route. What we propose is
that the hour be reduced by law to 40 minutes. This
will give every man an hour’s pay for 40 minutes’
work; and if this is not explained, the employers
will not notice it, and they will be ruined before
they find out what has happened.
* * * *
“2nd Divvy”: “Polo is growing in popu-
larity all over Italy,” said a Rome cable
last week. It is odds on the Italians pre-
sently leading the world at this game, which
has only just been introduced in Mussolini-
land, as they already do at field-shooting.
Some untravelled Australians are inclined
to deride the idea of Italians being great
horsemen. Actually, Italy produces more
first-class riders, both cross-country and
manage, than England per head of the popu-
lation, and at least ten times as many as
Australia. Until 1914 there was a tradition
that all Australians could ride. Training-
cainp tests showed that, outside the Light
Horse units, only about 10 per cent, had
ever been on a horse before joining up, and
the percentage that knew anything of horse-
mastership was infinitesimally small. In
England 30 per cent, of artillery and cavalry
recruits can ride, groom and look after an
animal, and in Italy 60 per cent. It is a
matter of population distribution. Most
Australians are town-dwellers; Italy has
relatively few. Australia, with no army,
very few hunt clubs and steeplechases, and
practically no cross-country riders except
pros., must be lamentably short of horse-
men these days.
“Mells”: In the years before Federa-
tion private lottery-promoters flourished
in different parts of Australia, although no
Government Would have thought of embark-
ing in the business. Perth had a gamble
agency conducted by one Charles, and Kal-
goorlie patronised a gentleman who traded
under the name of “Squash.” “Squash’s” prizes
ran into hundreds weekly, and the drawings
were in all probability quite as honest as
such affairs usually are. But, after he had
had a fairish run, a local paper fell heavily
on “Squash”—because he wouldn’t advertise
sufficiently, that person declared —and forced
him out of action. In the very last sweep a
ticket held by the wife of the proprietor of
the newspaper which was impugning
“Squash’s” honesty in every issue secured
a prize of £7O. The husband wore an
exceptionally cheerful grin when he w'ent
to draw the money.
“Menadue”: Two very small and dirty
urchins appeared at the casualty ward door
of the Mater Misericordias Hospital, North
Sydney, the other morning and anxiously
inquired for the doctor or matron. A ques-
tion elicited that they had “brought a kid
with a broken leg.” The hospital staff were
immediately all attention. “Tell the ambu-
lance men to bring him in,” ordered a young
doctor. “No, he didn’t come in no amber-
lence,” explained one boy; “we carried him
part of the way, and brung him in a billy-
cart the rest.” The staff rushed to the door :
on the mat lay a young goat with the broken
bone protruding through the skin. “Ston-
kered by a car,” confided the spokesman
tearfully. Two doctors, the matron and
two sisters tenderly laid the animal on “the
table”; the broken bones were set and the
patient handed over, with instructions for
future treatment. Then the billy-cart with
its burden went slowly down the hill towards
Greenwich.
* * * *
“Farleigli” : Gandhi is taking to London a
bill for £1,265,000,000, alleged to be moneys
which Britain lias overcharged India,
or diddled India out of iu a. dozen different
ways, since the days of John Company and
Clive. Presumably this huge account is to
be rendered, not in any expectation that it
will be taken seriously, but merely as a sort
of gesture to indicate how much Britain owes
India, in the opinion of Gandhi and his
friends. How much India owes Britain is, of
course, another question; but. there is some-
thing almost picturesque in the conception of
a bill for twelve hundred millions being handed
to a portly, top-hatted Chancellor of the
Exchequer (Snowden, unfortunately, isn’t
portly, but he may be gone before Gandhi
gets there) by a patriot who dresses for choice
in a loincloth and who can cut down his
living expenses to fourpence a day. The
Boers sent in a claim for three millions after
the Jameson Raid. There were no items; the
money was due, Paul Kruger succinctly wrote,
for “moral and material damage to the Trans-
vaal Republic.” The document was read in the
House of Commons, where it evoked nothing
beyond hilarity. At drawing up an account
Paul was obviously a mere child beside tin'
Hindu lawyer.
PLAYING THE GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘The N.S.W. Labor party is arranging to hold
public demonstrations against the Governor for
refusing to swamp the Legislative Council with 60
or 70 Lang nominees.”
’Twas up to Lang to play the ball,
That is, the Premiers’ Plan
They signed at Melbourne, one and, all.
But with his customary gall
He sought to play the man—
You cannot fail, I think, to see
The aptness of the simile
From football phraseology.
He charged his man with purpose fell.
Hark to the raucous hoot,
The partisan’s impassioned yell
Attesting unmistakable
Approval of the boot.
The ball, you ask, where is it now?
’Tis hard to tell amid the row,
And what’s it matter anyhow?
But, if you would allot the blame,
Think, when the tug began,
’Twas Lang that couldn’t play the game
And nathless reckoned it a shame
That Game should play the man—
And that in less restricted ways
Than what the handy sporting phrase
Hereinbefore employed conveys.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


“Mudurup” : Even in these straitened times
the Perth City Council jibs at the idea of
cutting out drinks and smokes purchased
with the ratepayers’ money “for consumption
by members and for civic receptions”; a
motion to that effect failed to find even a
seconder. In Westralia three per cent, of
municipal revenue is set apart for amenities
of this description; hence the distinguished
visitor is “three-per-cented” and the recep-
tacle for stimulants becomes the “three-per-
cent. chest.” But one dreadful night 30
A MUCH WORSE CASE .
“Tell you the truth, Bin[?]sby, the reason I don’t dine at home is because I find wives
harder to manage the older they grow.”
“You’re lucky, Mr. Boggles . I find mine harder to manage the younger she grows.”
years ago the iCity Council went dry. The
Mayoress of the period, a strong-minded lady,
who had failed to impress her husband with
her views on the inadvisability of mixing
munieipolitics with strong waters, arrived
shortly before the fortnightly meeting, locked
the three-per-cent, chest, put tlie key in her
bag and stalked out with a “That’ll show
’em’’ air. It did, too, nobody being game to
force the lock. Ever since then there have
been two keys to the chest.
* * * *
“Epicurus”: As the outcome of a fare-
cutting row Sydney taxi-drivers have
started heaving bricks through the win-
dows of lower-priced chariots. Patrons
whose lives have been endangered tend to
avoid the menaced taxis, which are either
putting up their prices in self-defence or
pulling out of the business. So one more
of our little luxuries looks like going
the way of so many others. Sydney
used to support two cheap Turkish baths
in the days when wages, rents and
income taxation were reasonable. It is
now the only white city of anywhere near
its size in the Empire with none. London
lias 20-odd; some of the oldest and most
successful of them are in the East End or
thereabouts, and are patronised as well as
staffed by proletarians. Before our short-
sighted Trades Hall bosses are finished they
will have outed many more services of the
kind, which can only live so long as they
remain fairly cheap. The sole gain is to the
population figures of the unemployed settle-
ments.
* * *
“Yamilla”: During the recent pneumonic
’flu scare at Broome (W.A.) I called at an
Asiatic’s store. After a lot of knocking, a
depressed Japanese shuffled in on his two-
toed slippers. ‘‘Black dye?” I asked him,
terse and explicit. “You gottim black dye.”
He looked at me through rheumy eyes. “No
die,” he assured me earnestly—“only cold-
sick.”
sjc He * *
“Der Jong”: Oom Paul Kruger is to be
honored with yet another statue in his native
land —this time at Krugersdorp, at the
western end of the Rand. The other now
stands on a stately pedestal in Pretoria.
though when the writer knew the
dorp the pedestal, close by the
Pretoria club, was unoccupied,
the statue reposing in its case
somewhere in Lorenzo Marquez.
However, the pedestal came in
handy the morning that peace
with Brother Boer was declared.
The news came through to the
club about midnight and was duly
celebrated. At sunrise subs, of
all arms surrounded the pedestal
and listened to an impassioned
speech on the situation by a
Maorilander, who himself applied
the closure by falling off his
perch. When I met him at the
next war he was so brass-hattish and
important-looking that I hadn’t the nerve to
recall the incident to him.
* * * *
“Sucre”: Let me add this to the list of
excuses for being caught in licensed pre-
mises during prohibited hours (B. 24/6/’3l).
A delinquent, asked by a Sydney magistrate
what reason he could give for his presence
in the Dog’s Nose hotel one Sunday
morning, replied with engaging frankness:
“Because a cop was watchin’ the other pub.”'
* * * *
“Vino V.” : Obviously it required the dis-
covery and popularisation of ardent spirits
before an intending suicide could drink him-
self to death, like the gentleman at Nice (B.
15/7/’3l), in a minute or so. Before that,
say up to the sixteenth century, anyone who
craved an alcoholic death, unless he elected
to be drowned in a butt of Malmsey, could
look forward to no such precipitate exit.
Which suggests that we drink far more than
our remote ancestors, with whom carousing
was a great deal more fashionable. The
Romans under their earlier emperors were
topers of note, the upper classes anyhow,
but they banked on quantity, not quality.
Falernian and similar beverages were pure
grape-juice, and were always largely diluted
with water. Noah made the first wine, or is
credited with having done so, but a few thou-
sand years had to pass before mankind
acquired the art of fortifying it. The man
who distilled the first firewater—whether it
was in Scotland, Ireland or Russia—has
really a great deal more to answer for, from
the point of view of the prohibitionists,
Yet his name is lost and his race a mere
matter of conjecture,
* * A
Discount : Curious to note the difter-
ences in social standing of gentlemen prac-
tising professions not regarded by the out-
side world as entirely reputable. The other
day an acquaintance indignantly told me
that he had applied to a Sydney money-
lender, to whom he took a letter of intro-
duction from a mutual acquaintance, for
temporary accommodation. Sorry, was
the reply, “but I never do business outside
the civil service.” Which recalls the story
of the Londoner who was wont to mention
with legitimate pride that, though he had
accommodated half the Household Brigade at
one time or another, he had only once for-
gotten himself so far as to "do” a bill for a
sub. in the R.H.A. His harsh opinion of a
competitor “who does bills for the Royal
Marines at 30 per cent.” was tinged with
pity that a man could sink so low.
SHE COULD GET HONEST OPINIONS FOR NOTHING.
“Well, did you ask your lawyer’s honest opinion about your position?”
“No! I didn’t want his honest opinion. I only wanted his professional advice.”
“Longship” : The recent fuss between Den-
mark and Norway over the occupation by
the latter country of portion of Greenland
is something of a storm in a teacup, but the
League of Nations is being appealed to about
it. Denmark seems to have the prior claim,
for a Dane'from Iceland, Eric the Red, dis-
covered the chilly country so long ago as
a.d. 960. The colonies he-founded vanished,
and though English whalers visited the coast
as early as 1604—20 years after Martin
Frobisher had been there —there was no
colonisation until the Danes re-appeared in
1720. Counting Eskimos the population is
about 15,000.
* * * *
“H'uon”: Hobart turned in its sleep the
other day when Hiddlcstone’s store closed its
doors after nearly a century of existence. A
lot of legends had grown up around it; it
is said to have numbered Martin
Cash among its customers, after
the bushranger had served his
time. The State hangman—the
story continues—also frequented
the establishment, and though
they never spoke there was
always evident a strained atmo-
sphere when the two were there
together. One day the civil ser-
vant came in just as Cash was
departing. “Ah,” he said re-
gretfully to the founder of the
firm, “if everyone had their
rights I’d ha’ had the turnin’
off of that covey.”
i’fi * ❖
“Bat”: The tram turned into
William-street, Sydney, and a
mild-eyed little passenger gazed
abstractedly into space. Oppo-
site was a muttering and obvi-
ously quarrelsome drunk. He
fixed a baleful glare upon his
vis-a-vis j then with a deep-
throated growl he lunged for-
ward and grabbed him by the
neck. “Sling orf at me, will
yeh?” he yelled, half-choking the
midget. Women screamed and
men shouted for the conductor,
who stopped the tram. Back-
ward into his seat lurched the
aggressor, while the little man
stood up gesticulating wildly.
The conductor rushed to the
scene of action. A scuffle en-
sued, a man was thrown into
the roadway, and the conductor
gazed around with an air of con-
scious rectitude. Then he gave
two jerks on the bell-cord and
the tram recommenced its jour-
ney. In his seat the drunk
sullenly glared into space.
“Weller”: A citizen with the intriguingly
alliterative name of Wesley Wolseley Well-
ington West has come to light in the N.SIW,.
Court cause lists these last few weeks. If
his sponsors had only substituted Wellesley—
the great Duke’s surname—for the Welling-
ton, what a test mouthful it would make for
motorists whose sobriety is in question!
Shibboleths like “British Constitution”
deserve a rest anyway.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: One of the items touched
upon by the Royal Commission on labor con-
ditions in India is the “prevalent system of
bribery,” whereby workers seeking a job
must pay native foremen, overseers, etc., a
percentage of their wages. The practice is
not confined to India, but it flourishes there
to an extent unknown in any other country.
The native does not regard it as bribery.
To him it is dustur —custom —and so he
calls it dusturi. So universal is dusturi
from Cape Cormorin to Gilgit that not even
a pice .changes hands without having an
infinitesimal fraction nipped off it for corn-
mission. There is probably no other country
in the world where a derivative of a word
which stands for immemorial tradition is the
synonym for illegal exaction.
* . *
“X 2”: An almost tragic anticlimax
marked the baptismal ceremony of a new
craft launched at Pitt\vater. It had been
arranged for the owner’s daughter to
christen it “The Wind Song” by smashing
a bottle of champagne on the bows in the
time-honored way. She is a pretty girl, and
the possibilities of a good picture incited
press photographers to snap her in various
poses. She went through the preliminaries
half a dozen times for their benefit, and
then tripped on for her act. Nervous from
frequent feints she failed to break the bottle
as the boat moved down the slips, and one
in the crowd called “Throw it.” She did,
with the directness of aim of the average
woman. The bottle missed the boat and
landed squarely on the jaw of an interested
workman, sending him down for the full count.
* * * *
“Oleander”: Pride in genealogy (B.
8/7/’3l) ? On the medical inspection cards
in use in Vic. State schools is a heading,
“Family history,” designed, of course, to show
if there is susceptibility to T.B. and such-
like ailments. One filled-in card bore the
proud entry, “A descendant of Lord Nelson."
* * * *
“Belay” : The A.I.F. sergeant who trans-
lated the terms “port” and “starboard” into
“the left and right sides of the sharp end of
the boat” (B. 15/7/’3l) had an illustrious
predecessor in that line, though he may
never have heard of him. This was
General Monk, who, according to Mac-
aulay, “when he wished his ship to change
her course, moved the mirth of the crew by
calling out ‘Wheel to the left.’ ” In those
days a general was often found in command
of a battleship, and an admiral, for that
matter, of a land force; provided a man
was a good fighter his abilities were counted
valuable to the nation afloat or ashore. It
wasn’t until the end of the seventeenth cen-
tury that a dividing line was drawn between
the naval and military professions. The
French led the way, and England, which had
found nothing incongruous in giving soldiers
like Monk and dashing cavalry leaders like
Prince Rupert command of fleets, followed
rather tardily.
“Runa”: I knew an old yachtsman who
taught his juvenile crew the meaning of
port and starboard (B. 15/7/’3l). Said our
mentor: “Now port is left and .starboard is
right. There are four letters in ‘port’ and
the same number in ‘left.’ And the port
light is red, like port wine.”
He sfc * H*
“Hotham”: Three youthful miscreants
profited temporarily by the G.P.S. “Head of
the River” craze which annually obsesses
Melbourne. They were not rowing enthusi-
asts, but they waylaid two youths in St.
Kiltla-road and stripped them of every-
thing but their reputation, the loot ranging
from socks to wristlet watches. Brigands
and victims were much the same age, and
none was armed, so you might have thought
that the public-school spirit of athleticism
one hears so much about would have come
to the rescue of the shorn lambs. They didn’t
even bleat, however, and the spoilers got
away to enjoy their ill-gotten gains until
the arm of a policeman, who was merely a
primary-school product and didn’t know a
stretcher from a slide, gathered them in.
* # * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A., which practically cannot
get too much water, except by flood coming
down from far up the Murray, is this winter
getting a sufficiency. The various Adelaide
reservoirs took in, during one recent week,
mote than they contained altogether a year
ago. The flood expected in the Murray
gives long notice, and banks from Renmark
down are being raised or strengthened every-
where.
THE GOD IN THE CAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"The barrel which is being constructed for the
N.S.W. State lottery will be borne through the
streets of Sydney in a lorry drawn by four white
horses. Officers of the Lottery Department are
expected to take part in the procession.”
Lo! a group in brave apparel round about
a monster barrel,
Hiding in a stately chariot drawn by
prancing, milk-white prads!
Rummy outfit, ain’t it, brother? Tell me,
is it just another
Of these enterprising brewers’ blatantly
dramatic ads.? . •
Do they push some brand whose virtue can
but hearten, may not hurt you,
Stuff that makes a poet dream of nectar
or of hippocrene
When it’s served by smiling bar-belles? And
there’s trays on trays of marbles!
What’s the big idea, think you? Whac
the dickens does it mean?
There’s a snowy-fleeced merino seems the
leader of the beano ;
Pride of place beside the barrel he s
accorded, it is clear.
But he doesn’t look, between us, in the least
like old Silenus,
So it’s obvious the motif of the pageant
isn’t beer.
What is it. that seeks expression m this
singular procession,
Since it’s not the time of year for Univer-
sity commem. ?
Communists? Nay, their resources hardly
run to champing horses.
Anyhow, they’d jib at white ones. ’Twould
be roans, red roans for them.
See the equipage careering through an
avenue of cheering
Citizens whose honest faces with appre-
ciation glow.
Must be one of Lang’s devices in these days
of stress and crisis
To arrest the grim depression and the
scarcity of dough.
And the silver-haired magician sent upon
the noble mission,
Aye, the deus ex machina who’s entrusted
with the biz,
To his fellows’ rescue bidden, under flutter-
ing papers hidden,
Why, it’s Whiddon —good old Whiddon!
Unmistakably it is.
Cherub perched aloft you find him, both
before him and behind him
Application forms and placards, propa-
ganda in a heap,
Definitely indicating there are stacks of
prizes waiting
For the chap who risks a dollar in a
ticket on a sweep.
See, the briefs are there in baskets! Bother
Tatt.’s and Golden Caskets!
Here’s a handier means to lift us from
the quagmire of despond.
Brother, if you’re wondering which is the
most simple road to riches,
Meet our estimable Whiddon. He’s the
wizard with the wand.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ŵ
WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, room with breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double, all
less 10 p.c. if staying one week
or more. All meals optional (also
at reduced rates) in tearoom or
c-af6. Inclusive board from 10/6
daily, or 65/- weekly, both nett.
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyon’s
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
SERVICE
The establishment of a Bank does not in itself establish a Banking
Service. It provides only the machinery which is to be operated by
man for the service of man. The human factor is the vital spark
that gives life to a mere aggregation of buildings, books and currency,
and makes of them a friendly, helpful service for the convenience of
the people.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank extends its facilities throughout
the length and breadth of Australia, through Branches and Post-office
Agencies, and trained officers translate those facilities into understand-
ing human service to the thrifty.
Cbmmoinvcaltl) Savings JBank of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government.)
EXPLOSIVES
ALL KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
iO-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Vic. Acting-Governor Irvine was a few
days ahead of G.-G. Isaacs in offering to
accept a cut in his salary. Irvine is relin-
quishing 20 p.c. of his £5OOO a year, apart
from the saving of £3OOO a year on the
C.J.’s stipend, which he is not drawing while
rubber-stamping.
Postmaster-General Green, who has been
deploring the snobbishness which impels
so many to pester Australia House for
invitations to functions, never had any
time for frill. When he first became
a postal official at Kalgoorlie “Texas,”
who had acquired the art of brick-
laying during his earlier struggles with the
problem of existence, decided to build a
couple of cottages in the hours when he
wasn’t engaged in issuing and cashing postal
orders. He did it, too, although it was a
lengthy process; so many passers-by used to
stop and warn the builder that he was lay-
ing the bricks wrong side up, or bray out
some other well-worn pleasantry. Even
though “Texas” was his own architect as
well as contractor, the domiciles proved
quite habitable, and brick cottages were
scarce things in the goldfields city in those
days.
Prof. John Anderson, who teaches philo-
sophy at Sydney ’Varsity, has got into hot
water for not liking a heap of things profes-
sors are supposed to like or not having the
savee to keep quiet about them. That he
came from Glasgow and “worked up” ex-
plains why he doesn’t like a lot of the things
professors are supposed to like; that he is
barely out of his thirties explains why he
hasn’t the savee. Most people get into the
habit of saying what the crowd around them
wants them to say; which is probably why
Anderson grew up saying the things he does.
It isn’t courage that makes Lang, for in-
stance, talk the way he does. It is just
vanity and the love of applause—some men’s
curses being, of course, applause to other
men.
Judge Henchman wasn’t well enough to
take the Mungana civil case in which Theo-
dore and McCormack are defendants, so
Blair, C.J., put himself down for the impor-
tant job; among other preparations made
for it was the summoning of extra jurors, to
allow for the challenges. In the days when
he was “Jimmy,” Blair was in politics him-
Queensland C.-J. BLAIR.
self, and was Education in the Denham
Ministry, which was thrown out to let
Ryan and Theodore in—that was 16
years ago. McCormack was given the job
of Speaker at that time. Blair is Queensland
born and grew up in the law with Tommy
Byrnes, one of Queensland’s brilliant sons of
the last generation.
There was no better-known figure in com-
mercial life during the rise and decline of
Ivalgoorlie than J. W. Fimister, who died
the other day in one of the Westralian farm-
ing districts. He was a Victorian who was
early on the fields, prospecting and store-
keeping ; in the latter capacity his name is
still preserved at Fimiston, alias the
Boulder Block, alias the “Dirty Acre.”
Jack Fimister was one of Kalgoorlie’s
early mayors, and with Charley Cutbush, a
mayor to be, he ran one of the biggest retail
businesses in Hannan-street for years. The
enterprise flourished with the town, but,
unlike many business men, Fimister and his
partner couldn’t get out when the lean
times came; they were interested in too
many mining enterprises, mostly losing ones.
George Cleland, dead in Adelaide at close
on 80, was a nephew of Samuel Davenport,
who started the vineyards at Beaumont, in
the Adelaide foothills. The nephew developed
the olivemil industry largely, and was a
leader in S.A, Chamber of Manufactures,
Vinegrowers’ Association and Agricultural
Society.
Leonard Robb, N.S.W. president of the
Returned Soldiers’ League, who. with Col.
Mullen (Tas.), will leave for Canada this
week to attend the ex-servicemen’s Con-
gress at Toronto, is a sturdy battler
for the ex-Digger. Robb’s parents were
farming people at Wanganui (M.L.) ;
born there 40 years ago, the boy when he
was old enough joined the M.L. railway
service. Crossing over to Sydney in 1912
N.S.W Diggers’ president ROBB.
he was with a meat-exporting firm at Parra-
matta when the bugles sounded. He joined
up with the 2nd Div. Signal Co., was at
Gallipoli and was among the last batch to
leave there. Later he was wounded at
Pozieres, and invalided home. Entering
the Federal Taxation Department in Sydney,
he was, on the amalgamation of Federal and
State taxation offices, transferred, to the
latter section, and is now a senior assessor.
He became the Diggers’ State president last
year.
A bronze Henry Lawson, with a bronze
dog at his feet, will look out on _ Sydney
Harbor from near Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair
next week. It is not quite 10 years since
Lawson died, so the honor of a public statue
has come to him quickly. A great part of
the fund was drawn from the schools: Aus-
tralian literature lias very good friends in
the schools and training colleges. Henry did
a bit of teaching himself once—in a small
bush school in Maoriland used mostly by
natives. Sums were his worst trouble: even
two and two bothered him. Luckily the
most advanced pupil was a Maori girl and
a good sport, and Henry always remembered
how cunningly she helped him out. His atti-
tude towards women and girls, by the way,
was a queer mixture. When the first woman-
tyoist was introduced to The Bulletin
office Henry saw in it further proof that the
place was going to the devil. Yet later the
same day, in Lower George-street, an un-
steady Henry, shaking his inseparable stick
menacingly, held up a party of roystering
young men-o’-warsmen and sternly reproved
them for treating their girl-friends with less
respect than their sex entitled them to.
Maybe that was why he always commanded
such good women friends —that and his
pathetic helplessness.
Senator John Newlands, who has an-
nounced that he will retire at the end of his
present term, was born in Scotland 66 years
ago. He arrived in Adelaide at 19 and put
in 23 years in the railway service. Then
Burra sent him to the Assembly, and in 1913
the State sent him to the Senate, where he
has remained ever since. He was elected
President in 1926, and resigned office after
one term. Senator Newlands was chairman
of the S.A. State Recruiting during the war,
in which two of his sons served.
George Herbert Kingswell, a journalist
who was once pretty well known in Aus-
tralia, died in Cape Town last month at 63.
A Maoi-ilander by birth, he was a newspaper
proprietor at Coolgardie in its early days; he
left in the mid-’nineties for South Africa,
where he became editor of the Cape Town
“Owl,” and years later founded and made
a big success of the Johannesburg “Sunday
Times.” The latest Cape papers give him
lengthy obituary notices, but his alleged
exploits are so varied and world-wide he is
credited with having been associated at one
time with Lord Northcliffe in Fleet-street
and at another with O. Henry in the U.S.A.
—that it is hard to say where fact ends and
fiction begins. A little of the latter, how-
ever certainly intrudes in this paragraph
from the “Cape Times”: “As a young man
Mr. Kings well joined the staff of the Sydney
Bulletin in the time of Phil May, and saw
the famous siege of the Bulletin office when
the building was barricaded and food was
swung up to the staff in baskets from friends
outside”!
Father Connors, of the R.C. mission at
Port Moresby, recently put up something of
a record in self-sacrifice. R. A. Vivian, a
well-known Papuan old-timer and a member
of the civil service, was knocked over with a
bout of blackwater, and blood transfusion
was necessary to save him. Father Connors
was subjected to a transfusion, and when
later in the same week another case called
for similar treatment the plucky padre came
forward again, though it is rarely that trans-
fusions at such short intervals are attempted
from the same person. Both patients
recovered and his Riverence has suffered no
ill effects.
Alf Warbrick, chief Government guide at
Rotorua, completed his 1969th ascent of
Mount Tarawera on the 45th anniversary
of the eruption that smothered the Pink and
White Terraces under mountains of ashes
and cinders. It is probably his last ascent,
as Alf is growing an old man now. He was
one of five brothers who went to England
with the first Maoriland Rugby football team
in 1888.
“Happy Jack” Scaddan, Westralia’s Min-
ister for Mines, who delivered an address
in Melbourne on the mining revival in the
western State, with the Golden Eagle nug-
get to supply some incidental color, has a
closer acquaintance with his subject than
most jioliticians. Moonta (S.A.) was his birth-
place, and he worked as a miner at Eagle-
hawk (Vic.) before joining the rush to the
Westralian goldfields and becoming an
enginedriver on the Golden Mile. Scaddan’s
rise in the Labor ranks was rapid ; within eight
years of being returned to the Assembly he
was Premier, and he held the job for five
years. Since then he has had his ups and
downs; he lost his goldfields seat, won
another at Albany, retired from Parliament
to run a motoring business, and got back
again for a metropolitan seat last year, when
he found office once more awaiting him. He
was Westralia’s youngest Premier but one
when he won to office at 35; Newton Moore
“arrived” a few years sooner, a shade under
that age.
Dead in Adelaide, Arthur Roupell, a quiet
Englishman of the best type. He arrived
from Cambridge to grow fruit at Renmark,
but finally was a public-service examinations
officer and secretary to the Advisory Board
of Science and Industry.
F. W. ROSE, new president of S.A.
Rotarians.
W. F. Sligo, who died in Dunedin (M.L.)
last month at 72. was born in Ballarat. He
pioneered the opening of the reefing country
in Macetown (M.L.) and took big values
from his show. The Golden Treasure. In
the height of the dredging boom he became
a member of . the Dunedin Stock Exchange,
of which, in 1903, he was made secretary.
His brother, Norman Sligo, was one of the
pioneers of Coolgardie, and his tracks remain
on a big mileage of the eastern and nor’-
eastern areas of W.A.
After a long innings inside Federal Par-
liament, where he was a Minister under
Deakin, Hume Cook has stayed as near to
the old shop as he could get as secretary
of the Australian Industries Protection
League. He has written more letters to
the papers on the one theme than any
other Australian, and. what is more, gets
HUME COOK.
most of them printed. To the outsider the
tolerance of the Freetrade “Argus” to the
flow of correspondence from his pen is
amazing. He was a graduate of the A.N.A.
school, and is at present its Federal trea-
surer. He is a better raconteur than the
earnestness of his writings would suggest,
and is in great demand as an after-dinner
speaker.
Charlie Gale, about to be appointed sec.
to Vic. Premier’s branch, was under-study
to H. T. Tickers for seven years. Previously
he was clerical head of the technical branch
of the Education Department. In France
he won a couple of pips and the M.C.
George Jury, formerly managing director of
G. and R. Wills and Co., has a birthday this
month—the 80th. Adelaide Uni.’s professor-
ship of English Literature bears his name;
the vacancy created by the death of Archibald
Strong has not yet been filled.
E. P. Carter, who has died at St. Kilda
(Vic.), aged 72, was the son of a Brad-
ford (Eng.) woolstapler, and to wool his
whole life was devoted. He came to Aus-
tralia in 1898 as wool expert for Golds-
brough, Mort and Co., and ranked as a
master of the subject in all its branches.
At the Wembley Exhibition he was in charge
of Australia’s contributions from the sheep’s
back, the finest ever shown. A younger
brother, Albert Carter, is a well-known Eng-
lish journalist. In conformity with the
wishes of the deceased, his ashes will be
taken to Tasmania and scattered over Pilot’s
Bay, Tasman Peninsula.
Jimmy Thomas, upon whose shoulders rests
so hiuch of the responsibility for a ruling on
the question whether a State Governor is
obliged to accept the advice of his Ministers,
is about the most solid member of the
Ramsay Mac Cabinet and the one in closest
touch with industrialism. There is no
“white-collar” Socialism about Thomas, who
began to earn his living at nine as an errand
boy, rose by gradual stages to be an engine-
cleaner, and finally found himself on the
footplate of a G.W.R. loco. That was at
Swindon (Wilts), where the future Minister
made his entry into public life as a
town councillor. For six years before Labor
first won to office in 1924, Thomas was
secretary of the National Union of Rail-
waymen in addition to his Parliamentary
job as M.P. for Derby. He stands well with
both sides, being an eminently sociable per-
son with a strong sense of humor, and is
tipped by many as likely to rise even higher,
being still in the middle fifties.
NORMAN LINDSAY DRAWINGS.
“The Bulletin” has great pleasure in
announcing that it recently arranged with
Norman Lindsay to do a portfolio of
humorous drawings: 12 years ago Mr.
Lindsay begged for a rest from this class
of work, with which he had given millions
of people rare delight, and could never
until now be persuaded to return to it.
The incomparable artist has during the
past few months completed 30 of the
drawings—including a remarkable series
of comic animal-studies—and their re-
production will be commenced in “The
Bulletin” on August 5. They will be
easily the finest things of their kind ever
produced in Australia.


ẃ
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Buy Standardised
Belting
There’s a Pioneer Leather Belt
to suit every type of drive.
you specify Pioneer Leather
Belting you are sure to get depend-
ability, phis extra years of service.
Every Pioneer Leather Belt is made to
a definite standard of thickness from the
best quality belt leather, and carries
our replacement guarantee should
defects in quality of material or work-
manship develop.
If you have a belting problem our
experts will advise you without obli-
gation.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Manufactured since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-2(1 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
££' £ £
1921.. 115,541 lOp.e. = 79,746 35,795 341,960
1922.. 126,819 124 „ „ 99,952 26,867 368,827
1923. . 159,350 12*,, „ 100,000 t , 1S
Written off premises .. £lO,OOO f 418,1/7
Premiums on new shares .. 147,512 565,689
1924.. 186,388 12* p.c.= 137,880 1 fif ,4 197
Written off premises . . £lO,OOO j 38,508 6 •
Premiums on new shares .. 12,488 616,685
19 w--;, 196 i 946 1( ? 125.18i> 59>2 65 675,950
Written off premises, £12,500 )
19 w'-;e 20 V 76 10 p - c - = -l 4 f> 9 n 77 /45,699 721,649
Written off premises, £12,500 j
1927• • 204,702 10 p.c. = 150,000 l onn cq oki
Written off premises, £12,500 j 42,202 lb6 ' bbL
211 -» 60 10 .^^i 72 ’ 739 , 1 29,821 793,672
Written off premises, £lO,OOO j
1929.. 212,385 10 p.c. = 174,998 (.97007 001 059
Written off premises, £lO,OOO j ’
mo. 204,956 9 p.c. 157,600 137 456 858,515
Written off premises, £lO,OOO )
19 w'-; + 142 ’1 91 ejinc.- 18 6 4i . 877)056
Written off premises £lO,OOO )
Not since the financial storm of the ’nineties
has the position been more perplexing. On
the heels of drought in central and far-
west Queensland came the sharp fall of both
national income and the value of securities.
Thus advances are not the assets they were
a few years ago, and exchange earnings are
lighter. Moreover, the position has been
complicated by the freezing of many market
outlets, the inelastic nature of overhead, due
largely to mounting taxation, a quick
growth in interest-bearing deposits and a
heavy fall in the market value of Govern-
ment securities following the conversion pro-
posals.
Commonwealth securities alone, includ-
£sso,ooo of short Treasury bills, figured at
£1,550,330 when the books closed. The
item is “well under cost or face value, and
provision is held to adjust it to market
value.” All things considered, it is not
surprising that the board put net profit
£62,665 short of the previous year’s
at 8.1 p.c. on capital as against 11.7,
12.1, 12.3, 13.6, 13.9, 15.7 and 16.1
p.c. back to 1924 —the slip is due
partly to a flood of new capital; the
£950,000 gathered during the half-dozen
years to the close of accounts in 1929 raised
the total to £1,750,000. So another couple
of points were chipped off the last three
quarterly divs., reducing them to 6 p.c. p.a.,
making p.c. for the year.
Besides substantial inner reserves, capital
visibly had the support and assistance of
£877,056 of surplus earnings at June 30;
and there is £3,091,669 of 31 p.c. perpetual
debentures. To pay the interest on these,
and 6 p.c. on the shares, total funds (capi-
tal, reserves and debentures combined) need
turn in only 3.7 p.c. net. But the future
remains uncertain, so the market prices
the £5 paid shares at £5 12s. as against
£6 10s. a year ago. The return at the lower
figure is 5.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis; and
the eye can see cover amounting to £7 10s.
in net tangibles.
The next comparison of balance-sheet
figures discloses a sound financial structure,
and trading conditions are reflected by the
movements: —
1922. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital 800,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Interminable
stock . . 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669
Bills, etc. 350,078 407,581 348,219 437,458
Deposits.. 6,898,730 9,404,099 8,657,228 8,332,164
Liquid
assets.. 4,056,621 4,644,695 3,790,277 4,292,106
Advances 6,994,272 10,348,614 10,423,181 9,697,570
Premises 500,411 524,850 527,173 524,922
Last year merchants worked down stocks
and book debts and lightened their over-
drafts, while producers did what they could
in this way as their attenuated wool and
other cheques came in. Thus there was a
shrinkage of £725,611 in advances, which
is partly interwoven with the contraction of
£325,064 in deposits. Liquids were strength-
ened by £501,829, mounting to 48.9 p.c. of
the liabilities to the public at June 30 as
against 42.1, 47.3 and 46.3 p.c. at the three
preceding balances. At the same date the
bank was holding only £1 10s. Bd. of the
public’s money for every pound of its own
funds, including the debenture, stock. Ordi-
narily that would mean low earning power,
but the rate of debenture interest alters
the position in this respect. Over 80 p.c.
of the co.’s risks are in its home State.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 17,812 10 p.c. = 15,000 2812 40,728
1921.. 17,622 10 „ 15,000 2622 43,350
1922.. 17,708 10 „ „ 15,000 2708 46,058
1923.. 17,018 10 „ „ 15,000 2018 48,076
1924.. 16,106 10 „ „ 15,000 1106 49,182
1925.. 13,142 10 „ ~ 15,000 47,324
1926.. 13,655 9 „ „ 13,500 165 47,479
1927.. 7,553 4 „ „ 6,000 1553 49,032
1928.. 1,843 Nil 1843 50,875
1929.. 3,145 Nil 3145 64,020
1930.. 409 Nil 409 54,429
Loss.
1931.. 29,990 Nil 24,439
This N. S. Wales timber co., which used to
secure contracts with a regularity that often
puzzled its rivals, was a steady 10 per center
for 20 years after the public became inter-
ested, in 1905. Then the more general use
of reinforced concrete and competition from
imported woods brought years of sorrow to
the industry. Thus the co.’s net earnings
averaged but 3.5 p.c. on its £150,000 of
capital for the five years to the close of
accounts in 1930, as against an average of
10.5 p.c. for the preceding quinquennium—
and even that is a mildly unfavorable experi-
ence compared with what others in the
trade have suffered. . .
Weakened by the prolonged struggle,
several old : established and reputedly sound
timber concerns went into liquidation last
year; the anticipated losses to this co. in
bad debts amount to £17,637, which has been
written off. Also the market became flooded
with stocks at prices which made profitable
trading impossible, and a drop in production
costs necessitated drastic writing down to
replacement values. Moreover, the co.’s
mills, which are well established in good
forest areas and efficiently conducted, were
only partly employed. So, after allowing
for ordinary depreciation as well, the board
put the year’s loss at £29,990, thus reducing
the book value of the reserves to £24,439.
The effect upon the finances shows up in
the next table
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931
Paid capital.. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 93,532 74,262 75,384 55,754
Country mills,
etc. .. 67,378 67,607 73,716 70,728
City wharves,
free holds,
mills, plant,
etc. . . 17,107 14,094 13,532 13,532
Vessels .. ' 18,560 20,065 17,278 15,428
Book debts, etc. . 55,611 56,680 71,253 38,034
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. .54,124 54,697 53,238 48,416
Stocks .. 87,435 • 65,140 50,796 44,055
The year’s net reduction . in more or less
liquids was £44,782, most of which was
absorbed by the loss. The-balance, together
with the allowance for depreciation and
£1776 added to the overdraft (£18,595),
enabled £21,406 to be wiped off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, reducing it to
£37,159. Altogether the more or less liquid
surplus (£74,751, including stocks) slipped
£25,152. The £43,000 of investments com-
prise Commonwealth bonds, debentures,
shares, fixed deposits, etc.
When conditions settle sufficiently to
enable the board to gauge the co.’s profit-
earning capacity, assets are to be revalued.
The most doubtful item is country mills, on
which £2988 more was written off than was
spent last year. All fixed assets are reported
in good order. Chief danger meantime lies
in the possibility of losses continuing to
absorb liquids.
The market expresses its fears by pricing
the pound shares at 35.; thus capitalising
the undertaking at £22,500. Its net book
value at May 31 was £174,439.
Co-op. Insurance Co. of Australia, Ltd.
■ To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 18,025 7 p.c. = 3127 14,898 18,474
Additional establishment costs, £lOl.. 18,373
1922.. 14,344 7 p.c. = 3563 10,781 29,154
1923.. 9,765 7 „ „ 3929 5,836 34,990
1924.. 19,015 7 p.c. = 4303 14,712 49,702
1925 . . 20,807 8 „ „ 5415 15,392 65,094
1926.. 11,704 7 „ „ 5164 6,540 71,634
1927.. 26,818 7 „ „ 8562* 18,256 89,890
1928.. 22,207 7 „ „ 9018* 13,189 103,079
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 .. 88,079
1929.. 18,081 7 p.c. = 9562* 8,519 96,598
1930.. 21,981 7 „ „ 9395* 12,586 109,184
1931.. 10,130 7 „ „ 9302* 828 110,012
*lncludes bonuses to shareholding factories.
The shares in this co., which was formed in
Vic. 12 years ago, are held by the half-dozen
principal farmers’ co.-op organisations m
Vic., N. S. Wales and S. Aus. These bodies
are also the agencies through which most
of the business, largely agricultural insur-
ance, is gathered. Thus favored, the manage-
ment was soon able to develop a profitable
connection. The div., which has been kept at
7 p.c., has been sweetened with bonuses
totailing £14,024 and £15,000 of gift
scrip during the last five years. But,
on the whole, more was put by than was
distributed; thus £95,020 of capital had the
support and assistance of £110,012 of
reserves, including £57,628 for unexpired
risks, at March 31.
The abrupt contraction in the year’s
profit was due to a slip of £11,850 in the
underwriting surplus (£1158). Owing to the
fall in the value of commodities, with smaller
pay rolls and lighter accident business,
mainly motor-car insurance, there was a
shrinkage of £7207 in net premiums
Net Pre- 'Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Ratio. Ratio.
1920.. £14,235 £1,689 : £6,477 11.9 p.c. 45.5 p.c.
1921.. 46,564 6,963 23,924 14.9 „ 5J.4 „
1922.. 55,274 11,293 32,177 20.4 „ 58.2 „
1923.. 62,884 15,487 40,490 24.6 „ 64.4 „
1924 . 76,823 19,246 41,416 25.1 „ 53.9 „
1925 89,116 23,698 49,216 26.6 „ 55.2 „
1926!. 91,735 33,855 51,143 36.9 „ 55.8 „
1927.. 123,710 43,790 59,038 35.4 „ 47.7 „
1928.. 113,843 44,695 53,696 39.3 „ 47.2 „
1929.. 115,255 49,047 56,207 42.5 „ 48.8 „
1930.. 112,219 44,443 54,768 39.6 „ 48.8 „
1931.. 105,012 43,742 60,112 41.6 „ 57.3 ~
Losses were a trifle lighter, but exes, sprang
£5344, due to taxation (£9095) ; they are
heavier than they ought to be considering the
facilities for harvesting the business. How-
ever, interest and rents brought in £8972.
equal to 9.4 p.c. on capital, so £2650 of
bonuses was sent out with the 7 p.c. div.
(£6651), making 9.7 p.c. for the year.
Policy-holders are well protected, as the
next comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows: —
1921. 1925. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital . . £49,770 £72,520 £95,020 £95,020
Sundry creditors.. 18,625 46,526* 23,346 25,880
Freeholdl . . 56,679 56,679 56,679
Equipment . . 1,401 5,123 4,955 5,212
Public securities ( y nos 1 62,713 84,213 88,213
Deposits 1 ’ l 25,006 48,800 52,300
Book debts . . 11,095 17,169 31,182 23,650
Cash, etc. . . 15,022 23,853 12,115 15,159
♦lncludes £36,679 owing on freehold.
At the close of last accounts they could
see net tangibles, mostly in good quality
assets, equal to 195.2 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, and that is over 45 p.c. more than
is usually considered adequate.
Now that we appear to be in for a period
of lower values and lighter returns from
investments, results will depend largely
upon the management’s success or otherwise
in getting costs down.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, v serves.
1920.. 52,430 10 p.c. = 35,664 16,766 128,023
1921.. 60,973 10 „ „ 39,471 21,502 149,525
June,
1922.. 26,737 10 „ „ 19,736 6,001 155,526
1923.. 51.469 10 „ „ 39,471 11,998 167,524
1924.. 44,498 10 „ 39,471 6,027 172,551
1925.. 42,047 10 „ „ 39,471 2,576 176,127
1926.. 42,181 10 „ „ 39,471 2,710 177,837
Transferred to capital, £48,986 .. 128,851
1927.. 53,503 10 p.c. = 41,920 11,583 140,434
1928.. 52,032 10 ~ „ 44,370 7,662 148,096
1929.. 49,457 10 „ „ 44,370 5,087 153,183
1930.. 53,525 10 „ 44,370 9,155 162,338
1931.. 38,222 10 „ „ 44,370 156,190
Another bountiful harvest enabled the
farmers on the N. S. Wales North Co&st to
fill this co.’s ships with produce during the
12 months to June 30. Still, it was a year
of tumbling prices, and the lighter purchases
of storekeepers and others and a small cut
in freight rates affected earnings to some
extent, while the growth in taxation made
exes, difficult to curb. Another factor which
probably affected the disclosed result of the
year’s trading is the proposed tariff amend-
ment which threatens to greatly increase the
cost of replacements; a matter which is
being watched carefully, the chairman says.
The admitted net profit, which slipped
£15,303, was 8.6 p.c. on capital as against
12, 11.1, 11.7 and 12 p.c. back to 1927; yet
the board did not hesitate to repeat the
10 p.c. div. So the market accepts the
apparent contraction with a bit of a twinkle
in its eye, and pays 255. for the pound
shares as against 265. 6d. a year ago. The
return at the lower figure is 8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, and the backing amounts
to 275. in net tangibles, of which 12s. Id.
was surplus liquids. The balance is repre-
sented mainly by shipping property, which
lias been liberally written down in the books
out of eaimings, and liquids have benefited.
This, and how well ribbed the co. is
financially, are reflected in the next com-
parison of balance-sheet figures :
IQ9R IQ9O IQ9O -IQ9-I
Paid capital.. £394,714 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities .. 40,802- 13,032 18,489 30,859
Ships.. .. 393,689 345,770 323,738 298,238
Freeholds, etc. 36,487 35,759 35,859 35,859
Liquid .. 202,913 250,572 287,115 318,837
Last year, though £12,370 was added to the
debt, £25,500 was knocked off the book value
of the fleet, and the more or less liquid
surplus (£287,978) was £19,352 stronger
than at the previous balance, notwithstand-
ing the apparent shrinkage in net earnings.
Liquids comprise £159,472 of Commonwealth
loans, to which £29,772 was added during the
term, £113,395 of cash, mostly on fixed
deposit, £30,586 of book debts and £15,384
of shares in other cos., stores, etc. During
the last five years two new motor-vessels
were bought, five old hulks were sold and
one wrecked, leaving the co. with practically
a new fleet of modern ships, fully insured.
Though shareholders have never skimmed
much cream from the business, they have had
a long run of uninterrupted divs. The
rate, which was 8 p.c. early in this century,
«““ bed to ? P-c. in 1913 and to 10 p.c. in
1920, and lias remained steady since. It
was sweetened with a small capitalisation in
19-6-—the only one in the co.’s history—
which makes the 10 p.c. worth 11.2 p.c. to
old holders. The co. is “unable to sub-
stantially reduce its transport charges” at
the moment, owing to the burden of taxa-
tion and industrial awards. Not all are so
fortunately situated as to be able to main-
tain their charges and yet keep their busi-
ness.
Choiseul Plantations, Ltd.
„ „ . To Re- Re-
Nov., I rofits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
1924.. 7,554 5 p.c. = 7,500 54 1,469
1920.. 10,878 64 „ „ 9,750 1128 2,597
1926.. 11,139 7|„ „ 11,250 2,486
1927.. 17,379 9„ „ 13,500 3879 6,365
1928.. 16,988 9„ „ 13,500 3488 9,853
1929.. 14,116 9„ „ 13,500 616 10,469
1930.. 13,086 8 „ „ 12,000 1086 11,555
This one of Burns Philp’s Soutli Sea. family
took over some 12,000 acres in the German
Solomons in 1912, at the same time increas-
ing capital from £50,000 to £lOO,OOO. The
figure soon grew to the present £150,000, of
which the parent holds £20,400. The first
cocoanuts were picked in 1919, but it was
another five years before the cautious man-
agement gave shareholders their first div. of
5 p.c. Then a quick growth of earnings
followed high prices and expanding produc-
tion, and 9 p.c. was paid for the three years
to the close of accounts in 1929.
Meanwhile the increase in the output of
whale oil —estimated catch for the current
season is 600,000 tons as against 300,000
tons in 1928—-and the fall in the value of
all staples brought the London price
for copra tumbling from £27 a ton in June,
1928, to £2O a year later, to £l5 at the
close of last accounts, and to £lO early in
June. It is now a little ovhr £l2.
Nevertheless, the visible shrinkage in last
year’s sales was only £4561; there was an
increase of 270 tons in the output:—
Copra Copra
Output, Output,
Tons. Sales. Tons. Sales.
1923.. 906 £15,586 | 1927.. 2325 £42,165
1924.. 1235 24,102 | 1928.. 2723 44.372
1925.. 1609 32,254 I 1929.. 3078 43,069
1926.. 1968 35,135 | 1930.. 3348 38,508
Exes. (£25,422) were pulled back £3531, so
the net shrinkage was £lO3O, leaving the
final figure at 8.7 p.c. on capital as against
9.4, 11.3, 11.5, 7.4 and 7.2 p.c. back to 1925.
Hence a point was knocked off the div.,
reducing it to S p.c. Assuming that exes,
and output are the same as last year’s, the
co. can show a profit of 5.3- p.c. on capital
with copra fetching £lO a ton in London. It
is doubtful whether costs can be got much
lower; so dividend prospects depend mainly
upon a recovery in the price of copra. Hopes
are that over-production in the oils and
fats market will presently work its own
cure. Incidentally, the big Unilever com-
bine. which has large cocoanut interests in
the Solomons and West Africa, threatens tc
send its own fleet to the Antarctic in
1931-32.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:—
1924. 1927. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital., £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 4,008 4,486 5,779 4,509
Properties, etc. 134,143 133,315 137,428 137,426
Livestock, etc. 12,841 12,830 11,483 11,308
Copra .. 13,956 13,651 24,172 16,051
Book debts .. 1,801 14,393 1,097 978
Cash, etc. .., 235 174 5,568 12,301
That the co. could show a profit with copra
at £lO a ton suggests that properties are
conservatively valued. Over the last half-
dozen years development and the purchase of
521 acres in New Guinea have added only
£3283 to their book value.
The visible backing is 21s. 6d. per pound
of paid capital.
Miller Anderson, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Jan., Profits. 8 p.c. Ord, serves. Deficit.
£> £> ■£ £ £
1928.. 11,565 4000 8 p.c. = 6000 1565 5,435
1929.. 10,339 4000 8 ~ ~ 6000 339 5,096
1930.. 7,116 5200 4 „ „ 3000 6,180
Loss.
1931.. 3,296 3200* Nil - 12,676
•Half-year's div.
This Adelaide drapery business, which had
been in the Miller Anderson family for
three-quarters of a century, became one of
the units in the Marcus Clark organisation
five years ago. That was when Marcus
Clark (Vic.), Ltd., bought all the 75,000
ords., and, in preparation for livelier turn-
over, remodelled and enlarged the premises.
Though this, restricted earnings for a while,
more than enough was netted to pay an all-
round 8 p.c. for the first two years. Then,
to lighten the debt, carry more stocks and
extend credit, the parent took up a further
30,000 ords. and the public a like number
of prefs. at a premium of 6d. each, raising
paid capital to £185,000 in 80,000 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 105,000 ords.
But before the new money had a chance
to show what it could do the big slump
(Continued on page 16.)


By
©IS SEUI&
vv*r; 4
HS&raiKSSK*
i§
8 SS
IW
si
;<&i
MW
*s&si
m.
m
m
m
m
ii£f-
'M»s.
... induced by the indisputable
fact that the sales of Johnnie
Walker are greater than those of
any other whisky in the world.
... assured by the cork
stopper, instantly withdrawn
by a twist of the finger and
thumb and as easily replaced.
Sfif-v'V
SV>
c
9*
: if\
■ence
EK>?4
m.
mm
m
m
£
%&9.
G
@u
. . . proven by the label,
which guarantees Johnnie
Walker to be the same quality
throughout the whole world.
Born 1820 •
Still going Strong
... assured by the character of the
contents as smooth and as
mellow a whisky as ever gave
pleasure to a particular palate.
rvr'Ti-^v/vv,.
mats®*®*-..
fife.
i%Vf.
as-fr
m
i\V^\
S'?
\/
pur*?
JOHNNIE WAMIER
SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHN WALKER 8C SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK


The Hated
Middle Class
The object of the Communist
party is to dispossess the “capi-
talist” of all he has —to abolish
private property.
The International party no
longer aims at doing this by revolu-
tion involving bloodshed. It has
found a better way—a way of
doing it gradually through taxa-
tion and expropriation.
What progress with this plan is
the Moscow party making in Aus-
tralia ?
This, the most important ques-
tion before Australia to-day, especi-
ally for all who hold any sort of
private property at all, is discussed
in
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
FOR JULY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* h= * *
The important factor of economy is one that makes
a strong appeal in Pioneer Wood Pipe. This conduit
costs considerably less than metal pipes, and yet it
is strong, durable and absolutely efficient in every
way. Being non-corrosive, its flow capacity never
lessens, and it is light, easily handled, and laid with
a minimum of labor and cost. Full particulars from
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 12 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid alsd to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
¥. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jollv, Esq., C.M.O.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Purchasers and Refiners of
GOLD and GOLD ORES, SILVER and SILVER ORES, GOLD and SILVER
BULLION, COPPER ORES, COPPER PRECIPITATES, SCRAP COPPER,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper. “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of
the Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, SEND YOUR GOLD BY POST (INSURED) TO ANY OF OUR OFFICES.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex«
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
arrived close on the heels of a long drought
in S. Aus. Thus, owing to the sharp con-
traction in turnover, persistent slip in prices
and growth in bad debts, gross profits shrank
from £20,684 for the 12 months to Jan. 31,
1929, to £7924 last year, when the recession
was £10,649. The weight of the mortgage
made itself felt, of course; exes (£11,220)
were only £237 lighter, so a loss of £3296
appeared. This and half a meal for the
prefs. left £12,676 of the ord. capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles at Jan. 31 —goodwill
figures at £7OOO.
The slip in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£866, including stocks) was £8204,
as this comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows :
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £125,000 £125,000 £185,000 £185,000
Mortgages .. 110,357 110,000 104,167 98,333
Sundry creditors 22,733 41,065 16,855 13,911
Freehold .. 133,370 145,535 146,773 146,438
Equipment . . 19,133 25,514 26,176 25,020
Stocks . . 73,742 66,925 73,859 71,156
Book debts . . 28,003 30,173 49,172 40,998
Cash .. . . 3,407 7,822 7,061 956
Only £5834 was snipped off the mortgage
and £2944 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, though cash was drawn upon for
£6105, debtors balances’ were reduced by
£8174 and stocks by £2703. Obviously much
depends upon the soundness of the figures
at which stocks and book debts appear.
Prospects for the prefs., which now call
for £6400 p.a., depend largely upon a revival
of turnover. They are on offer at ss. 9d. in
the market, and are covered by net tangibles
with a book value of 435. Id. The mortgage
may stand in the way for a while, especially
of the ords.
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 4538 10 p.c. = 3500 1038 3,029
1921.. 4174 8 „ „ 2800 1374 4,403
1922.. 4305 8 „ „ 2800 1505 5,908
1923.. 6618 10 ~ ~ 3500 3118 9,026
1924.. 5892 10 ~ „ 3500 2392 11,418
1925.. 6901 10 „ „ 3500 3401 14,819
1926.. 5663 10 „ ~ 3500 2163 16,982
1927.. 2811 10 „ ~ 3500 16,293
1928.. 2140 5 ~ „ 1750 390 16,683
1929. . 1764 5 „ „ 1750 14 16,697
Loss.
1930.. 883 Nil 15,814
When the short run of 10 p.c. divs. at the
height of the boom was interrupted, the
board blamed the weather. But there were
other disappointments. The Spit (Middle
Harbor) bridge didn’t bring Manly the busi-
ness that was anticipated, many motorists
using it only to turn off to the beaches further
north. Also, other hotels have sprung up ;
and outgoings have been difficult to restrain.
Last year conditions changed, a loss instead
of a profit showed up, and it is difficult to
say when shareholders are likely to get into
the picture again. They have averaged only
5.3 p.c. since the co. took over the old
Clarendon Hotel in 1910.
During the year the financial position
slipped a further £1760 :
1926. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Liabilities. . . . £26,997 £26,298 £25,672 £23,568
Liquid assets . . 12,788 11,790 9,528 5,664
Excess liabilities. . £14,209 £14,508 £16,144 £17,904
Buildings, etc. . . 67,941 67,941 68,716 68,716
Liabilities include £20,000 of 54 p.c. per-
petual debentures, of which £12,000 was the
purchase price of the Clarendon. More or
less liquids were £2096 in excess of the
floating debt at Dec. 31. A hotel of this
kind is a hungry animal for repairs and
modernising improvements ; much will depend
upon what the management is able to do
in this way and charge to earnings.
Bismarck Range Gold Exploration Co., a
concern in 300,000 shares of 2s. 6d. each,
which did no good for itself in New Guinea,
came to Lucknow (N.S.W.) about the middle
of 1929. Here it bought options for £4OOO
cash and £3893 in fully-paids. Claiming to
have located the main contact joint in virgin
ground north of where it was lost in the old
English co.’s workings, the board recently
offered 60,000 new 2s. 6d. contribs. to pro-
vide for equipment and the sinking of a main
shaft, though no details concerning the cost
of it all were given. At Nov. 30 last
paid capital was £10,743. There was £4620
coming to creditors, including £3704 on
account of options, and £396 for directors’
fees. Cash totalled £l4; advances, £168;
ant, £9B; intangibles, £15,083. Incident-
ally, the last audited sheet filed by the co.
with the Registrar in Sydney is dated Nov.
30, 1930, and covers the period back to July
23, 1928, notwithstanding that the law pro-
vides that a co. shall, at least once in every
year, present its sheet to members at a
general meeting. At the moment a Parlia-
mentary committee is inquiring into the cir-
cumstances surrounding the transfer of
mining leases at Lucknow.
* $ $ $
Broken Hill South’s No. 7 shaft steel head-
frame, which is about 120 ft. high, is ready.
Also the .concrete buildings for winders and
crushers are finished, arid the machinery is
nearly all installed; but it will be a couple
of months before production begins. The
underground part of the job is complete
to the first loading station at the 1070 ft.
level, and the second station, at 1370 ft., will
be ready shortly after haulage from the shaft
begins.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: Some promising gold finds
have been made recently in Queensland. The
latest is on the old Canoona field, inland
from Rockhampton, and some miles west of
the original and once rich alluvial diggings.
A party of four, working under the Govern-
ment prospecting scheme, were following up
leaders on the side of a hill when they struck
a 4ft. wide reef in serpentine country. Here
they got on to sluggy gold at once, and in
the first day took out 75 ounces, the largest
piece being about 10 ounces. Of course
there is a rush to the spot; but it is too
early yet to say definitely whether the find
is something big or merely one of the rich
patches so common on other fields in this:
district in the past. Even more promising
is the Cracow find, some 60 miles north-east
of Taroom, on the Dawson River; it is
probably within the boundaries of the old
Eidsvold mining field. It is a reefing pro-
position, the surface formation being 60ft.
wide for a mile and a half, and carrying
gold right through. About 50 tons of stone
has been taken from a shaft and an open
cut, and the verdict is eagerly awaited. Some
60 claims have been pegged along the line,
and dollying has given good results. Much
will depend upon whether the formations
go to depth.
* * * *
The gold deposits at North Arm, near
Gympie (Q.), are confined to a relatively
small but potentially important area of vol-
canic rocks. The ores are rich in silver, and
betray themselves by black streaks of silver
selenide. There is room for considerable
prospecting on the lease already taken
up, and good chances of payable reefs,
other than the Golden Surprise, Coolum
and Quinceys, being found. Investors, how-
ever, should make sure that their leases are
in the auriferous zone.
* * * *
If London accepts the price asked for
the Palmer River Gold Co.’s property at
Strathlaven (N.Q.), the formation of a
new co. with a capital of half a million is
spoken of. H. C. Price, who inspected the
show, is off to London by the next boat to
talk the matter over with his principals. He
was the prime mover in the formation of
the British-Australian Goldmining Co., a
prospecting concern registered in Sydney
about a month ago with a nominal capital
of £lO,OOO.
* * :fc
“Taubada”: Though it is over a year since
it was discovered, little has been heard of
the Tauri goldfield in the Central Western
district of Papua; it was hoped it would
turn out to be another Lakekamu. At any
rate, it Isn’t dead: one Garbutt, of Towns-
ville, applied for nine leases there the other
day. Also Dr. Dunstan, once Government
Geologist of Queensland, who is visiting
Papua, is to inspect the rather inaccessible
field; he will be provided with a Govern-
ment escort.
* * * *
The Waratah. Bay Prospecting Co., a
Melbourne concern formed by George Meu-
dell, is on the hunt for gold north of Cape
Liptrap, near Wilson’s Promontory. Gold
and osmiridium have been won from the
beacli sands here for many years; common
opals are also said to exist in the vicinity.
* * *
Kalgoorlie mine managers agree that under
existing conditions new treatment plants are
all that i is necessary to transform their
shows into dividend-payers. But new plants
are expensive, it takes a big lump of satis-
factory ore reserves to justify their installa-
tion, and nobody can be certain how long
the gold bonus will continue. Nothing much
is likely to be done in the way of general
plant rebuilding until the first section of the
Lake View and Star’s new equipment shows
what it can do.
* * * *
When Sons of Gwalia was about to throw
in the towel two years ago, a sudden
inspiration prompted the management to ask
the Minister for Mines for assistance. Pie liked
the co.’s chance and backed it. The co. has
since added to its ore reserves from month
to month, and inside three years these ate
expected to exceed anything previously
blocked by the co. It has been a pleasing
transformation, quietly effected.
* * ' * *
Werf Conrad, the Dutch dredge-builders,
recently obtained an order from the Supreme
Court in the F.M.S. for the compulsory wind-
ing up of Tujoh Tin, N.L., and an official
liquidator was appointed, but thus far has
been unable to sell the assets. There is
£52,150 coming to Werf Conrad and £17,000
to other creditors. The directors are ques-
tioning the validity of the order on the
grounds that the co. is registered in Mel-
bourne. It was formed in 1927, and took
over some 600-odd acres in the Kinta Valley,
estimated to contain about 60,000,000 c.y. of
fib. ground. Actual recoveries, however,
were around .251 b. per yard. With |lb.
ground, and cost at 4d.. the metal would
need to average over £l7O per ton to make
the proposition worth while for shareholders.
It is not surprising, therefore, that of the
100,000 contribs. 47,952 have been forfeited,
and that the last call is unpaid on 33.925 ol
the remaining 52,048 shares. When the co.
was formed tin was fetching about ±3OO
a ton - * *
**. * *
“Spare Towkay” : Siam, after much cogi-
tation, has decided to join up with other
leading tin-producing countries in the restric-
tion of output scheme, on condition that its
minimum export quota shall not exceed
10,000 long tons per annum. The fall in
metal prices has caused many cos. operating
there to hang up production, so it may
not be necessary to severely cut present out-
puts to get down to the proposed quota.
Indeed, a year ago the Siamese output was
only 1100 tons above it. Tongkali Com-
pound, Tongkah Harbor, Takuapa and
Satupolo are the most important Australian-
owned concerns affected.
CONVERSION QUESTIONS.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Under the Debts Conversion scheme will
the Commonwealth Government interfere
with the maturity dates of loans? I hold
bonds maturing in 1932. Will these he paid
on that date; if not, when? —4600.
Holders of bonds for small amounts who
would be distressed by the scheme may apply
for special treatment; otherwise the matu-
rity will be spread evenly over 10 dates, from
’3B to ’6l.
I am the wife of a worker under an a/ward.
I am 64 and he is 65. When Mr. Lyons
appealed for £28,000,000 our local posh
master approached me about putting some
of my savings into the loan for a short term.
I had £316 in the bank. I transferred £3OO
to the loan, to mature, I was informed , in
1932. It is my life savings, and we hold no
other investments. Please let me know my
position. —466s.
Cases of this kind are expressly provided
for. Those in charge of this conversion will
certainly lift such amounts out of the scheme,
on proof being offered. But silence means
consent; so that the full facts attested (in
this case by the local postmaster) should be
sent to the Treasurer, Canberra.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(1) What would be the value of four
fully-paid first-issue bonds in New Zealand
Perpetual Forests, Ltd., in Australia to-day?
(2) If paid for over a period of five years
what would the compound interest amount
to? (3) Is the bond payable in Australia
or New Zealand, and would the holler get
the benefit of exchange? (4) How many
first-issue bonds were sold? (5) What
amount has been set aside for repurchase
of first-issue bonds? (6) How is the fund
invested ? —4682.
(1) Impossible to say what present
market value is; first, you would have to
find a buyer. In the past transfers have
been made from par to 100 p.c. premium.
(2) Depends upon date of final payments.
Interest at the end of five years would be
approximately £3 14s. (3) They are pay-
able where purchased, and in the currency
of that country; on repurchase by the co.
no exchange is paid. (4) and (5) Not dis-
closed in published accounts. The amount
set aside is included with the reserve for
planting, maintenance, etc. (£1,106,105 at
March 31). (6) See B. 17/6/’3l, page 14.
I am young, have some money and feel
like backing Australia and buying shares.
Any suggestions ? —4667.
The most important thing to see to. per-
haps, is that the co. is well handled and
not making large losses, and can therefore
be expected to see bad times through. Cos.
with a heavy outside debt and no profits to
speak of are to be avoided: in such cases the
creditors are always liable to press for liqui-
dation while they can get their money back.
For the same reason, if you are looking for
ordinaries, see that the pref. issue, if any,
does not overwhelm them. On the other
hand, if you are looking for prefs., see that
the holders of the. ordinaries have not too
much power. Incidentally, remember that
inflation ( which is still a possibility in a
much worse form) can practically destroy
the value of a pref. holding. Cos. whose
assets consist largely of the froth of the
recent boom in values will probably have to
write off capital; also in such cases profits
(if any) for years to come may be absorbed
in repairing the losses.
Could you recommend a safe half-dozen
pref. shares to bring in 7 p.c.? —4610.
Such shares are liable to be snares these
days. As a rule, the ordinaries can put
the co. into liquidation ; so they have large
powers of. reconstruction. The cumulative
provision in particular can therefore very
easily be over-valued in these times. The
latest considerable Sydney co. with pref.
shares whose liquidators have been heard
from will not pay any interest on pref.
shares, and will not return more than 10
p.c. of their capital. Subject to those preli-
minary remarks these seven are mentioned:
Anthony Horderns, Australian Glass, City
Electric Light, Dunlop-Perdriau, E. Light
and Power, Myers and Wunderlich.
(1) What really is a gold standard? (2)
A bimetallic standard? (3) If, as has been
proposed, the ratio was -fixed at 20 of silver
to 1 of gold, how could it be maintained if
silver production increased? —4567.
(1) A system under which gold brings a
fixed price, no matter whether it is plentiful
or scarce; the variation in the value of gold
is shown by the variation in the prices of
other things. (2) A system cinder which
two metals have fixed prices, no matter
whether one or both are plentiful or scarce ;
the variation in the value of the linked
metals being shown by the variation in the
prices of other things. (3) Probably it
wouldn’t be maintained, though a super-
abundance of silver would lower the pur-
chasing power of both gold and silver and
check production.
(1) Is Australian silver currency accepted
free of exchange in Cape Colony? (2)
Have banks rationed customers, and will
they allow them to take only a small amount
out of Australia? If so, how much? (3)
Can you suggest any way to overcome this?
(4) If I have a large credit in a bank here,
can I not demand a draft for that amount,
provided I am prepared to pay the exchange?
(5) llow much silver would the authorities
allow one to take 0ut? —4686.
(1) No. (2) Depends on many things,
chiefly (a) the purpose for which the cus-
tomer wants the money sent out of Aus-
tralia, and {b) whether the bank has the
money elsewhere to pay out. (3) None
whatever. (4) No; all you can demand is
payment in Australia. (5) Matter of
arrangement; usually a couple of pounds.
Taking silver away surreptitiously is a
criminal offence.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.G.: A toss-up. See what paid-up policy
they will issue. But first be sure you can get some
better co. to take y0u....Du0: Shipping cos. got
through the depression of the ’nineties as well as
any. B.P.’s didn’t go below 74 p.e. ; Newcastle and
Hunter River fell away to 5 p.c., but did not miss
a div W.P. : They will recover some day. Mean-
time nothing very serious is likely to happen to
that lot R.S.W.: Reason why an excess of imports
over exports didn’t make Australia rich is simply
that the wretched things weren’t paid for, and now
we’ve got to meet the bill, after making darned bad
use of the goods... .P.R.: (1) On present appearances
Tooths won’t be driven off the div. list. (2) No.
(3) We think so. (4) No. (5) Don’t know of any
S.A. investments; they did, however, make some
arrangements with the S.A. Brewing Co. to evacuate
Broken Hill.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Why Co-ops. Fail
“Larrapinta”: When the S.A. Beekeepers
formed their co-op. honey pool I looked up
the histories of many co-op. concerns to see
if we could profit by their mistakes. This
is what I found. Most of the failures were
caused by disloyal members. One case is
typical. The Mallee farmers found the retail
price of firewood out of all proportion to
what the merchants were paying for cut wood
and stumps, so they formed a pool. For a
time the pool had all the trade; then the
merchants raised their buying prices above
those which the pool could pay. Straight-
away, for the sake of Is. 3d. per ton, the
farmers ceased to support their own pool;
and it crashed. So, very soon, did the
merchants’ prices.
Next on the list of causes of failure came
mismanagement—chiefly when a board had
all the say. It is hopeless for men to try
to run a show of this kind when they are
ignorant of marketing and business methods,
no matter how much they know of pro-
ducing. One of the first things those in
charge must learn is: “Lower prices to the
consumer, as well as better prices for the
producer.”
Last came lack of capital. The remedy
is obvious.
There is _no more sincere tribute to the
benefits which producers can gain from co-
ops. than the determined effort which middle-
men make to kill them. Those who form
co-ops. must remember a few things. First,
your co. is going to face a critical stage
when the middlemen are raising their buying
prices above those paid by the co-op. Then
you must throw every ounce of your weight
into the scale, or your venture will crash.
Once over that stage, you are right. Next,
don’t be afraid to get a good man to run
the show —and pay him well. See that his
salary is dependent upon and moves with
the results he achieves. And, above all,
remember that the consumer must be studied.
The Poisonous Middleman
Dear Bulletin,- —Your article of June 24
regarding the experience of a Swan Hill
grower of dried fruits is to the point. The
whole Murray Valley suffers from similar
conditions. There is only one remedy, and
that is an audit by an independent account-
ant armed with ample statutory powers.
The export figures are of supreme import-
ance in an industry which exports 85 per
cent, of its produce. The industry in general
is subject to the most exacting Government
supervision. Wages, licensing of packing
sheds, packing of fruit, the export quota, the
channels of distribution of the fruit in Aus-
tralia and overseas—all these are the sub-
ject of Government regulation. But the most
important thing of all, from the producer’s
point of view, the accounting for the fruit
sold, is without any supervision at all. The
packers and agents may be commercial saints
or commercial sinners. The only test is their
conscience, a slender reed for the grower to
lean upon. If they do not succumb to
temptation, it is not for lack of oppor-
tunity. The Red Cliffs growers are begin-
ning to cry out that the proceeds of sales
are “trust funds” and should be subjected
to audit. They are right. It is to the skilled
accountant, unbiased and unapproachable,
and endowed with full authority to investi-
gate the facts, that the primary producer
must look for effective aid. —Yours, Murray
Valley.
Cotton in Queensland
In spite of the fact that it has to compete
with the produce of cheap black-labor coun-
tries, the Queensland cotton industry still
makes some progress. During 1929-30 a
good season and the Government guarantee
brought about an increase in acreage, the
crop being the second highest in the history
of the industry in the State. Labor costs
are still the crux of the problem. It is pos-
sible in some areas to pay pickers 12s. per
1001 b., and that means good wages for the
worker; but until the cost can be reduced
considerably it will be impossible to profit-
ably exploit areas where the yield is lighter.
Several attempts have been made to produce
a usable mechanical picker, but hitherto
all have fallen short of expectations. A
machine designed by J. Ferrier, of Brisbane,
is now attracting interest. The action is
mechanical, whereas most of the other
machines relied on suction. The bolls are
picked by rocker bars carrying teeth, which
alternately take and release the cotton.
Thence the cotton is conveyed by suction to
a cleaner; this ingeniously separates the
bolls from leaves and trash, which are car-
ried off by an air blast. A selector device
rejects _ boll husks and hard cotton locks,
which if passed would lower the grade. The
machine is small and compact, requiring
only a motor for power. Two rows
on each side, making four in all, are picked
at one time. It is claimed that under normal
conditions the machine will get 100 per cent,
of a crop, and that its capacity is eight
times a handworker’s.
The annual ram sales in Sydney ended in
a higher average than was expected, the
increase being between 45 and 50 per cent,
over last year’s prices. But that needs to
be qualified, Tor many lower-grade sheep
were held back or passed in. In all 2218
merinos brought £39,141, an average of over
£l7 10s., whereas last year 2592 sheep
averaged something over £l2. In 1929 the
average was about £24 and the year before
over £34. The best price this year was 625
guineas as against 340 last year. Other
offers brought 600, 420, 400 and 350 guineas
respectively, competition being practically
limited to studs and picked sheep. Flock
rams, usually sold by the hundred at from
five to seven guineas each, were in very
slight demand.
* * * *
Chinese shipowners are again buying up
the surplus and obsolete tonnage of
various Australian shipping cos. Mcllwraith
McEacharn have sold the Komura and
Kooringa, the Adelaide Co. the Urilla,
Howard Smith the Chillagoe and the Union
Co. the Ivamona and Kaituna. All of them
have been collecting barnacles for many
months. The Milluna, Woolgar and Heb-
burn, all better-class steamers, have been
sold to buyers in Europe. There are still a
score or more inter-State freighters laid up
in Sydney and Melbourne. May be the
unemployed seamen gaze at the vessels swing-
ing at anchor and remember the happy days
when work was plentiful and boats were
held up for hours, sometimes days, awaiting
the pleasure of a solitary fireman or A. 8.,
who was finishing off a drunk. Truly another
case of killing the goose.
* * * *
“E.K.P.”: The waters along the far-
stretching and deeply-indented coast of
Queensland contain a fish wealth that is
incalculable. Opportunities exist which if
pursued in the right manner should bring
rich results. For example, the “Cooktown
salmon” contains a wealth absolutely neglected
in this country. In all these fishes the air-
bladder is of an exceptional size, and from
this organ is extracted a high-priced isin-
glass. In many overseas countries the blad-
ders are carefully collected; here they are
thrown away. This is appalling; with a
bounteous supply of these fishes, nothing but
our own ineptitude stands in the way of
building an industry for the export of the
bladders in a dried state, or of the manu-
facture of a local isinglass. Again, the
“tailor” fish, very popular in the U.S.A.,
enjoys but a poor reputation here, merely
because it is very difficult to deliver to market
in a satisfactory condition, on account of
rapid deterioration after capture. But with
the establishment of an up-to-date smoking
and canning factory, the tailor would be one
of our most valuable fishes.
* * * *
A count made on the surfing beaches towards
the end of last summer showed that one
out of every three costumes was a Jantzen—
and a misanthrope swears that 2f out of
every three motor-trucks carried a Jantzen
girl on their wind-screens. The co. settled
down at Sydney three or four years ago
with W. A. Freeman as chairman; and half
the business end of Sydney wondered what
he was doing in that school. An interesting
story will have to be written about Addison
Freeman some day. The son of a Land
Board chairman in N. S. Wales, he prac-
tised as a solicitor for some years, and
then, through his engineer-brother Ambrose,
became interested in mining. The Australian
gold shows they were interested in were
petering out just as Malayan tin-mining
made a start; so the Freemans helped to
found the Austral-Malay, parent of many
Eastern tin cos. Next a hint of tin in
Bolivia took W. A. Freeman to the U.S.A.
—and that’s where we come back to the
Jantzen diving girl. Associations he made
in America helped to bring the co. to Aus-
tralia, where an all-
Australian co. was
formed, haying affilia-
tions with Burns
Philp as wholesale
distributors. Freeman
went off on his travels
again a while ago —
he returned last week
—and managing-direc-
tor Klindworth was
left in his chair. He
has just had the plea-
sure of signing the
first dividend cheques
on ordinary capital—
a modest 4 p.c.; thus
far the co. has been
more anxious to make
friends than a for-
tune. The fortune
will come by-and-bye.
* *
Dear Bulletin, —
There is a form of
taxation here in Java
which is worth look-
ing into —a distance
tax on motor-cars;
that is, they are taxed
on the number of miles
they run. This is in
addition to a very
modest registration
fee. Seems to me
there is sense in this.
—Y ours, Edworth
PONTEY.
* *
“Dosset”: The
Board, of Trade re-
cently appointed an
expert to pronounce
on the relative merits
of the butters that
the ‘Briton spreads
upon his bread. The
arbiter put English
first; the product of
outside countries fol-
lowed in this order:
Finnish, Dutch, Swed-
ish, Esthonian, Lat-
vian, Lithuanian, Aus-
tralian, Maoriland,
Argentine, Ukrainian,
Siberian, with Irish
and Polish a bad last.
Then somebody asked
him about South Afri-
can, and he said that
was even worse than
Polish. Curiously
enough, it is a South
African paper that
quotes the report and
a South African
Chamber of Com-
merce that has
brought it under the
notice of the local
Minister for Agricul-
ture, with a view to
taking steps for the
removal of the invidi-
ous distinction. A
more surprising thing
is to find Ireland,
with its centuries of
dairying behind it,
and its matchless pas-
tures, so low in the
list.
* *
“B 41”: It has been
commented recently
that some graziers
hold in N.S.W. -West-
ern Land leases
50,000 to 100,000 acres as a reserve
in case their home holdings elsewhere
give out, and it is said that such lands
should be for smaller men to settle on.
But what will the smaller man do when, as
very often happens, those areas are drought-
stricken? Many millions of sheep have been
saved for Australia because flocks could be
sent to W.L. leases temporarily, and the
wool industry will be seriously interfered
with if the “big” man is not allowed to hold
areas in reserve. As a bank manager (now
retired) I have met again and again such
cases as I refer to.
* * * *
One of the most interesting engineering
jobs in the Southern Hemisphere is the can-
tilever loading gear recently completed at
Nauru Island, in the Pacific, one of the
world’s most prolific sources of phosphate.
Nauru emerges from the sea most abruptly.
Its sides descend at an angle of 45 degrees,
and it isn’t safe for any ship to come close
to the shore. In the past the phosphate has
been lightered out to steamers precariously
moored in 1200 ft. of water—a tedious and
dangerous business. Now there has been
erected a system of belt conveyers jutting
out from the shore and carried on a series
of towers, terminating in a pair of gigantic
cantilever cranes. Immensely strong moor-
ing chains are attached to the outer tips of
the cantilevers, so that the ship receiving
cargo may be held steadily and safely in
position. Under the lighter system, with
ideal weather conditions, 2000 tons a day
could be shifted, but the new appliance,
which is electrically operated, delivers 500
tons an hour. The job took three years,
and the hazards and adventures of the men
who did it would provide materials for an
engineering epic.
* * * *
“Ebb Tide”: A country friend wrote mo
to buy a second-hand 1925 Chev. gear-box.
The cheapest I could get from the wreckers
was £7 10s., just about the same as for the
new article; but I got a complete 1925 Chev.
at the motor auction for £l5. Woop came
down highly satisfied and drove home with
a load of vegetables, and is now using his
own Chev. for spare parts. When in the
wreckers I saw a lad getting charged 17s.
6d. for a make of old open magneto; yet
the cycles to which these magnetos were
fitted can be purchased for about £3. Seems
to me the dealers have to sell only one com-
plete car in pieces to be able to retire.
* * * *
“Luchorpan”: I tried to buy some clarified
butter here in Adelaide, and even the big-
gest shops never heard of it. But ghee
(clarified butter) is considered indispensable
for cooking all over “the East,” especially
for curries, entries, etc., so the market is
very wide. Has it been tested? India alone
consumes hundreds of tons weekly; and I
don’t think there is a European household
or hotel where the Australian product would
not be preferred to the buffalo stuff. I
believe a big demand could be built up at
home, too.
* * * *
Copra being at the moment unprofitable,
Mandated New Guinea is turning to coffee as
a side-line. For many years the various
missions have maintained small plantations
for their own use, but the plant has never
been grown on a large scale. However,
three cos. have lately been formed in the
Territory, and one has already 30.000 trees
in. Years ago coffee-planting on the hills
behind Port Moresby in Papua promised to
be a success, until it was found that disease
had been introduced with the plants—which
came from Java —and the enterprise was
abandoned. In the New Guinea Territory
a nursery area of five acres in the moun-
tains has been planted with Arabian coffee
seed brought from Jamaica, an experiment
which may have important results in estab-
lishing a native stock.
% * * *
A mild boom in one branch of Australian
industry has been created by the opening
up of snowfields so close to Melbourne that
a day’s sport can be enjoyed and the enjoyer
be home for dinner. Last year the local Ski
Club imported Swiss ski to the value of
£2OO, but there is suitable timber in Australia.
It needs no more than careful selection.
Queensland yellow-wood has been found to
make excellent snow sabots, and it only
requires a proper supply to set the manu-
facture on a regular basis. Local hardwoods*
are being used considerably, but they have
not the same durability. It costs aho«& four
guineas to fit out a resolute snow-addict with
his queer-looking paraphernalia, and sub-
scription to the club is nominal.
A- * :!:
The new Pearlbutton Manufacturing Co.
has gone into B.P.’s nursery; and they bring
up healthy, vigorous youngsters there. The
B.P. backing has enabled the co. to lay in
plant; and soon, under the guidance of M.
Yajda, a European expert, the co. will have
such an output that there needn’t be a
shirt in Australia that isn’t provided with
a real pearl-shell button. Most pearl
buttons hitherto have been made from
trochus-shell, though there is an abundant
supply of m.o.p. to be got for the purpose.
Nobody knows more about the supply than
B.P.’s; and, under their care, the market-
ing also should be well done. Two (Continen-
tal craftsmen have been introduced to train
the Australian staff to the job; there are
25 on the pay-roll to-day and by the end of
next year it is expected there will be 250.
THE THIN EXCUSE.
"N.S Wales Government Savings Bank withdrawals only began to be abnormal in the last week
in March. Why? Because there had been a pronouncement from Mr. Lang in connection with his
repudiation proposals.” —Henry Braddon, M.L.C.
THE NEW MAID: “Don't blame me, Mum. That Bavin girl what you had last year done it.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's (com. Sat.) “A Warm Corner”
“My Lady’s Dress”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal ....._ “Patience” and “Cox and Box”
Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville & Revue
State Movies and Talkies
:
The Religious Editor writes:—
It grieves me more than I can say, dear
friends, to have to tell you that the Drama-
tic Critic ventured to see a, talkie a few
weeks ago and is still far from well. In his
deeply regretted absence, it has fallen to my
lot to attend Mr. Duncan Macdougall’s pre-
sentation of a play entitled “The Green Pas-
tures,” and to ponder deeply upon the text,
“The Presence turned out to be Mr. Duncan
Macdougall.”
“Blessed are the - sick and bedridden, for
they shall be spared much.”
I gather, brethren, that Mr. Macdougall has
moved up from a basement in Oxford-street
to the ordinary ground level of the Theatre
of Youth in Young-street, a truly Voronoffic
location, if I may say so. I have not any
personal acquaintanceship with his late
address, my excursions in that locality having
been restricted to attending the Friday after-
noon meat auctions, in the pursuance of
which domestic duties' I was led to observe
that the hotels thereabout are good but few
in number.
However, good people, I have it on the
authority of the Dramatic Critic that Mr.
Macdougall’s theatre there was a hell of a
hole, a description, I should say, not in-
applicable to all basements, and I have slept
in many. But such a description could cer-
tainly not be applied to the famous actor-
producer’s present address, where the red
seats make so brave a showing as to almost
reconcile one to the lamentable doings at
the decrepit Kremlin in Macquarie-street.
Moreover —and this should be of especial in-
terest to all members of the Brotherhood of
Goodfellows —the move brings Mr. Macdou-
gall’s enterprise within easy walk of the
First and Last, the North British, the Para-
gon and Plasto’s; and though, owing to an
unthoughtful law, it is not permissible even
for a Dramatic Critic’s locum, however
pressing the need, to slip out during a per-
formance and fortify the nerves with a tom
and jerry, it is in some small degree com-
forting to think that, if it came to the
worst, one might at least steal, away and
sniff at the odorous chinks.
I must admit to you, brethren, that the
temptation to do so on Saturday night was
at times a trifle urgent. It was twenty-five
minutes to nine ere we were vouchsafed the
Sign that the Almighty was about to make
His. first bow to an Australian audi-
ence. A good many of the uninitiated,
including myself and our dear friend Bro.
Frith, thought the Sign had been given when
all the lights suddenly went out, but this,
apparently, was an accident, and one, it so
happened, that was to be repeated quite out
of proportion to its merits. The authentic
Sign came when the swing curtains were
successfully attacked, that on the left
going back as if pulled by a string mani-
pulated in the wings, and the other being
grabbed by a near-by attendant and reefed
aside, with such a to-do of reluctance on
its part as to suggest that it wished to spare
us from what its departure would reveal.
This, I am sure all members of the Choir
and Organ Guild will be interested to hear,
turned out to be a Sunday School, in which
some little Misses, who all looked as if they
would have been the better for a wash —a
note of criticism at once hygienic and applic-
“The illustrious trumpeter was greeted with
something more like a titter than a furore
able to Abraham, Cain and, indeed, all
members of the cast—were having the Old
Testament sympathetically explained to
them by a preacher named Mr. Deshee, who
looked not unlike a public servant of Egg
Board proportions, done up with burnt cork
to represent the kind of look Mr. Lang
would be likely to get if the pay-envelopes
were not there on Thursday. This scene,
I observed, ended without any undue expres-
sion of regret on the part of the audience,
and the lights were switched on and off and
then on again—an unquestionably pretty
effect, though, like the curate’s family, per-
haps a little overdone. When they again
went out, in preparation for the second
scene, the attendant had to grapple with the
right-hand curtain in the dark, conditions
that gave it an unfair advantage, owing to
which the interesting struggle was consider-
ably prolonged. But obstinacy having at
length given way to resolution, the lights
came on again, revealing, on the right, two
young fellows considerably the worse for
charcoal, and, on the left, two young ladies
in the same sooty condition.
I am sure that it will be of great interest
to anglers to hear that these good people
were carrying on a desultory and incoherent
conversation apparently concerning fish.
Indeed, one of the young women put a hand
out into the near-by wings and dragged on
to the stage a squirming child, whose back
she modestly turned to the audience whilst
removing from. the little one’s throat a dan-
gerous, though invisible, fishbone. After
this deft operation, Gabriel made an unex-
pected entrance. I am speaking merely in
surmise, but I should say that the reason
the illustrious trumpeter was greeted with
something more like a titter than a furore
was probably that he had been at some pains
to disguise himself as a clerk of the State
Savings Bank trying to pass himself off on
angry depositors as a chimney-sweep, and
had even left the best-known halo in the
world to be used as a pot-ring or for quoits
in those parts of the Celestial dominions not
embraced in the 20-feet stage. It will doubt-
less interest the choir boys, and perhaps
form a basis for* discussion among them, to
be told that Gabriel’s wings, too, had none
of the sweep made familiar by all the great
artists for whom he has condescended to sit,
but were in a condition to suggest that he
had undergone a rather severe moult. Alas,
his trumpet, also, was disappointing, being
made of paper, after the pattern greatly
favored by Father Christmas. I was, how-
ever, deeply impressed by his obvious attempt
to conserve his breath for an even greater
occasion when presently he held a grimy
paw aloft and announced the imminent arri-
val of Jehovah.
Even more, good friends, was I impressed
by the hush that such intelligence naturally
caused in a gathering so uncertain of its
address in the Hereafter as a Sydney audi-
ence, though this was shortly broken by sighs
of relief, closely akin to hilarity, when the
Presence turned out to be Mr. Duncan Mac-
dougall, disguised to look like Dad Rudd
coming home after burnin’ off a bit of clear-
“A gathering uncertain of its address in the
Hereafter.”
in’, , not walking, but standing upright on
a kind of go-cart, seemingly drawn along by
a rope. This mode of entry gave Mr. Mac-
dougall a gratifyingly commanding height
above Gabriel and the others; but watching
him thus being pulled backwards and for-
wards, as happened whenever he had to come
on in the ensuing scenes, may have led many
to fear, and perhaps more to hope, that the
rone would break. •
I sincerely hope that it will not be consid-
ered too hypercritical in me to suggest that
Mr. Macdougall, in casting himself in the
role of God, gave way to a somewhat ambi-
tious aspiration. I do not think the resem-
blance was such as to deceive any trained
observer, not even when Mr. Macdougall
added the heavenly extras of top hat and
cigar. Nor, good friends —though far be it
from me to question—did he satisfy me
that Noah was not in the right in contending
that, since two of everything else was being
taken into the Ark, there should be also
two kegs of Nelson’s Blood, or its early equi-
valent. For such a protracted voyage I am
sure two kegs would have been little enough,
and I have no doubt that they would have
been granted to him if he had asked for the
extra one as a precaution against scurvy or
snakebite.
To which, dear people, I have only to add
that the production retained at least the
name of a play entitled ‘The Green Pas-
tures,” and was not deafeningly applauded
by a small but sober audience.
* * *
Balokovic and the Baron made their
Saturday night’s farewell performance at
the Town Hall the most brilliant of the
season. The violinist has overcome a touch
of something like shyness in his manner, and
he attacked Grieg’s Sonata in C minor and
the Mendelssohn Concerto in E minor as
light-heartedly as he played the simplest
items of the encores. It was altogether a
delightful and generous entertainment. It
took the illustrious pair a little time to win
the Sydney crowd, but they certainly did
it in the end.
In “Adam, the Creator,” by the Capeks,
staged by the Players’ Club at St. James Hall,
Sydney, the curtain rises on a slum rubbish-
tip, with a clay embankment in the back-
ground. Here the voluble Adam delivers
a tirade against the social system and then
blows all hands to smithereens. That leaves
him alone on earth, until the voice of God,
from the prompter’s wing, commands him to
build the world up again. He is given power
to create life from the clay near by, and,
after experimenting with fleas, produces the
perfect woman. The lady, arising from the
claybank, soundly berates her maker and
walks off with her nose in the air. Adam
then brings forth a superman, an ungrateful
johnny who wants to fight him, and who
pursues the lady dishonorably. Adam s
next product is a wife for himself who
turns out a scold. Disgusted with the
specimens he has set loose, Adam yearns for
“Cain, Abraham and all members of the
cast would have been better for a wash."
a sympathetic, understanding male. with
whom he can discuss his plans, but his next
creation, Alter Ego, covets Adam’s wife,
and demands a female of his own and a half
share in the business of running the new
world. Later on Alter Ego also learns how
to create human beings, and goes in for mass
production. The partnership dissolves, and
war breaks out between the factions, after
which the subjects overthrow their creators.
The authors in the final scene provide a
glimpse of the pair as tottering ancients
returning to the spot where the rubbish-tip
stood to find that a temple has been erected
in their honor. Despite modest props, there
was an air of impressiveness about the per-
formance. The producing by Francis Jack-
son was capital. Kenneth Fowles (Adam)
stuck grimly to his difficult task, and Ernest
Cavill (Alter Ego) gave a brisk perform-
ance, tliougli inclined to bluster. _ The mag-
nificent limbs and bellow of Leslie Simpson
were well used in the part of the Super-
man, admirably partnered by Joyce Mac-
Tavish as Eve. Alice Gould, Gladys Shaw
and Max Napier all did their bits very well.
This Showman does not consider it any
part of his job to regard the economic side
of theatrics, but if he did Rolls, of Sydney
St. James, would be due for a hearty pat.
Even allowing for depression salary rates,
Rolls must be handing out a thumping
weekly cheque to keep the current vaudeville
bill going. It is an unusually crowded show,
with whole companies of performers appear-
ing in different scenes. The offei’ing includes
Long Tack Sam, one-time champion boxer
Jack Haines in a very good boxing act,
Janette Gilmore on skates. Len Rich, Fred
Bluett and a vast tribe of others. It is a
great improvement on the recent revue.
* * *
The first effort to permanently establish
grand opera in Australia will happen on
August 1 at Melbourne R9yal, when “Car-
men” will open the combined J.C.W. and
Professor Heinze offensive. Joseph Hislop
will be Don Jose, Alice Orff-Solscher is
Carmen, and Franco Izal will do the bass-
baritone job.
* * *
The Royal Victorian Liedertafel has given
a mixed programme at Melb. Town Hall. The
first half, devoted to “Frithfof,” by Max
Bruch, was a very dull performance on the
part of the choristers, suggesting a need for
more rehearsal. The A.B.C. orchestra sup-
ported the singers, J. Sutton Crow wielding
the stick, with Harold Murphy and Beatrice
Oakley as the soloists. The Liedertafel was
on happier ground in the second part, un-
accompanied numbers that included Beet-
hoven’s “Holy Night” and Edward Ger-
man’s “Rolling Down to Rio.”
* * *
Adelaide’s shows, in the coldest and wet-
test week within memory, are not many.
Napoleon Bradley, Dorothy Brunton and
co. have ended a great season at the
“Noah contending there should be two kegs
of Nelson’s Blood.”
Royal, and gone Perthwards; a locally-
produced Aird-Fewster-Iving opera is just
starting at this house. Wirth’s circus has
also left for the waterlogged country parts.
¥ ♦ fIP
Frank Neil’s “Why Men Leave Home’’ is
a typical Frankish farce, and judged by the
reception he should do far better at Sydney
Opera House than he did in the Criterion
plunge.
SHADOW SHOWS.
M.-G.-M.’s “Dance, Fools, Dance,” at
Sydney Plaza, is a melodramatic symphony
containing three of the themes most favored
by composers of the Hollywood school of
movie. It opens on a plutocratic note. Joan
Crawford and William Bakewell are seen on
a yacht as the spoiled children of a Chicago
speculator who presently goes bust and dies
of the shock. A brisk newspaper motif,
which is destined to persist to the end, in-
trudes next, * and almost simultaneously one
catches the roaring Wurlitzer notes of a
familiar old gangster folksong.
It is Miss Crawford who becomes a jour-
nalist on this occasion ; her waster-brother
goes into the rum-running business. What
more natural than that the brother in the
course of his professional duties should shoot
the star reporter who has helped his sister
to make good, and that she should be assigned
by her editor to discover the murderer? The
head gangster—a sterling ruffian whose name
the writer missed on the screened programme
—engages her to dance at his cabaret; falls
for her; ditches Natalie Moorhead after the
boorish manner of his kind, and enables her
to get the low-down on the killing without
difficulty. There are some exciting and gory
moments —particularly the street scene in
which the terrified boy shoots the amiable
news hound, and the one at the heroine’s
flat in which all bite the carpet-dust but
herself. If there are flaws in a show which
is almost perfect of its homicidal class they
lie in the undue supply of limelight allo-
cated to Miss Crawford, and in her over-
playing. She won’t become an actress till
she learns to make her outsize eyes behave.
Mr. Bakewell does the best work of his brief
career as a spineless young drunk. All the
sets are interesting, and some of the interior
photography is masterly.
Laurel and Hardy do one of their admir-
able knockabout acts in the first part, and
Miss Dorothy Dix figures in the Fox-Movi'e-
tone Gazette. The legendary maiden turns
out to be a married woman with a wise,
cheery old face and a delightful voice.
* * *
“Not Exactly Gentlemen” (Fox), at
Sydney Regent, is also a blend of tried and
trusted talkie materials. The plot is the
traditional U.S.A. Exodus one, with a Missis-
sippi crook story tacked on. The period is
the mid-’seventies. Custer’s force having
been exterminated by the Sioux, Ulysses S.
Grant has opened Dakota to a land-rush.
Even in those lawless times and regions
Lew Cody, Eddie Gribbon and Victor Mc-
Laglen weren’t considered gentlemen. Cody
—seen first aboard a realistic Mark Twain
stern-wheeler —is a card-sharper. He re-
marks that only one thing can beat four
aces, and draws his gun on the holder.
Gribbon is a horse-thief, wanted for murder,
and McLaglen is bad on all-round lines.
As fugitives from the sheriff, and partici-
pants in the rush, they meet Fay Wray, who
is introduced to add to their difficulties by
her imbecilities. But the story doesn’t
matter. Americans are history-conscious, and
pictures like this show them a mass of things
out of the past life of their, country that
have vanished or are vanishing—velocipedes,
mushroom cities, horse transport, strange
weapons, clothes and manners. One result
of Hollywood’s talkie monopoly is that the
Yanks are not only teaching the world their
history, but are creating an impression in the
minds of millions that it is the only history
worth re-creating.
* * *
Fox’s “The Princess and the Plumber,”
also at the Regent,, is another one based on
the world’s oldest plot. Maureen O’Sullivan
looks, talks and flirts like a European prin-
cess who has been reared as a virtuous
American woiking-goil. Charles Farrell is
well cast as a plumber from the U.S.A. who
calls at the castle about the drains, but he
is preposterous as the duke whom he claims
to be. European dukes may have their com-
plexes, but what might be called “skaphion-
phobia,” or “dread of a haircut,” is not one
of them. The princess has no idea that the
hirsute lad with the taking ways and hor-
rible voice is an artisan till she happens to
see him on the job. However, by that time
she has grown to love him, and all that
remains is to get round the prince, her
father. Warner Baxter is a satisfying prince,
and Joseph Cawthorn, as a comic statesman,
runs him close. The most interesting thing
about this picture, apart from the light, it
throws on Hollywood’s naif habit of inter-
preting the world in terms of an American
small town, is the scenery. It is more
attractive than life, and the Fox photo-
grapher has done his bit efficiently, as
usual.
* * H
The chief item at Sydney Capitol is “The
Cat Creeps,” a version of “The Cat and the
Canary.” As in “The Bat Whispers,” most
of the laughs come in the wrong places. The
direction is good, and Helen Twelvetrees,
Lilyan Tashman, Raymond Hackett and
other old hands work hard to create a
brooding atmosphere of horror.
The subsidiary, “Meet the Wife,” another
stage adaptation, is witty, well-acted and
more erotic than most of the shows our
censor cuts to pieces, though no clothes are
removed and no one gets tight or makes a
remark that could be taken exception to by
the righteous. The provocative femininity
of Laura La Plante is chiefly responsible;
they always cast ladies of her type for
similar parts in French farce. Her cloy-
ing sweetness and managing disposition have
caused her first husband, Lew Cody, to flee
to London. In the belief that he is dead
she has married Harry Myers. Six years
later Cody turns up again. Both husbands,
who are alike physically and temperamentally,
love her. The first is ready to resume mar-
ried life, and the second feels like a holiday
in London, so a bargain is struck. Mr.
Cody hands Mr. Myers his steamer ticket and
the keys of his London flat, and takes the
lady in exchange. She is agreeable—no
other man, she admits, has given her such
epoch-making kisses —and the fade-out comes
with the butler smirkingly opening a bed-
room door. It is played on light comedy
lines by a cast which is ideal for the
purpose.


ẅ
Capital paid up £1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 860,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 43,306 19 0
Interminable In-
scribed Deposit
Stock 3,091,669 4 5
£5,744,976 3 5
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 437,458 10 5
DeP o ® l * B 8,332,164 4 4
£14,514,598 18 2.
Coin, Bullion,
Australian
Notes and
Cash at
Rankers .. £1,915.7.55 2 !
Comm onwealth
Treasury Bills
(short dated)
Comm onwealth
and State
Loans (this item
stands in the
Balance Sheet
well under cost
or face value,
and provision
is held to
adjust it to
market value)
Cash Balances..
Bills Remitted
and in transitu
British Treasury
Bills (short
dated)
Money in London
at call and on
short notice ..
550,000 0 0
1,000,329 19 5
77,630 4 9
568,384 16 5
100,000 0 0
80,000 0 0
Advances to Customers on Current
Account, Bills Discounted and
other Debts due to the Bank ..
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Stationery
(Of the Bank Premises figures,
£170,000 is revenue producing.)
£4,292,106
9,697,570
624,922
2 10
7 3
8 1
£14,514,598 18 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For Year Ended 30th June, 1931.
To Interim Dividends
paid—
13th November, 1930 £35,000 0 0
12th February, 1931 26,250 0 0
14th May, 1931.. 26,250 0 0
m rp n „ -£87,500 0 0
To Transfer to Reserve Fund . . .. 20 000 0 0
„ Balance at 30th June, 1931 .. 43 - 306 19 0
£150,806 19 0
By Balance from 30th June, 1930.. £18,515
„ Net Profit for Year ended 30th
June, 1931 .. .. .. 132,291
9 11
9 1
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance ..
..£860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
By Balance .. ..
~ Amount transferred from Profit
for Year ended 30th June. 1931..
£840,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
w
ŵ
JUST AS WELL IT’S
A "FAYREFIELD”—
Good job indeed Just a push into shape again and
it will be as smart and snappy as ever.
That’s the best of buying a good hat in the first place; it will
stand up to wear and tear that would quickly mean the finish
of an inferior article.
“FAYREFIELD” Hats are made in Australia from selected
rabbit fur and cannot be surpassed for comfort, appearance
and wear.
Nu-felt Super-felt 30/-, Premier-felt 35/-
Sole manufacturers of
the “MANSARD” Hat,
the new registered
design .
Your Hat,,
siiy
L M
iiSt
r*
&
(t!
m
m
\
A
The Trade-mark and Quality are stamped in every genuine
“FAYREFIELD.”
3 “AlwauvALoarl ”
SYDNEY:
United Felt Hats Pty., Ltd.
Nichols Street, Surry Hills.
MELBOURNE:
United Felt Hats Pty., Ltd.,
48 Nicholson Street, Abbotsford.
BRISBANE:
John Bell & Co.,
133 Elizabeth Street.
F 2-31.
ADELAIDE:
C. G. Wark,
Bower B’ldings, Charles Street.
PERTH:
A. H. Mills,
Central Hay Street.


CHEMIST SAYS
“HEENZO is the best family
cough and influenza remedy.”
A WONDERFUL MONEY-SAVER.
A leading chemist advises parents to save
money by making their own family cough
remedy by simply adding concentrated
HEENZO to sweetened water. By doing this
you will have a supply equal in quantity to
eight ordinary-sized cough-mixture bottles
that would cost up to £l. Heenzo is the
ideal family cough remedy because of its
absolute purity and freedom from narcotics.
Therefore, it is a safe and good remedy for
even the youngest baby, as well as adults. A
bottle of concentrated Heenzo will cost you
2/- at all leading chemists and stores. Over
one million citizens annually prove the
goodness and economy of HEENZO as a
speedy and reliable remedy for banishing
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis. ' influenza,
and whooping cough. Thrift is a sign of
wisdom. Buy a bottle of HEENZO to-day,
and have it in the home for immediate use
at the first sign of chest and throat ailfnents.*
m"
s'"
i
LIGHT LUNCHEON AT 2/-
IN THE WINTER GARDEN.
This is undoubtedly one of the most popular'
luncheon fixtures in Sydney—from 12 to 2 p.m. daily.
The menu includes Two Rounds' of' Buttered Toast,
with a' choice of Two Rounds of Sandwiches; in no
less than Thirteen Varieties/ or you may have your
choice of Two Special Hot Dishes.
Complete with Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, Milk or Soup
—at the fixed price of two-shillings. Specials of
various kinds and Sweets as per menu at a ; popular
tariff.
Make up a party and try this light lunch. You
will find it economical, in. keeping with the times—
daintily served,' amidst deiigfitful and
newly-decorated surroundings.
w
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney,
TO MEET THE TIMES
M
U
■Xt!
riental
Melbourne* Premier Hold
Reduces tariff 30% without sacrificing
efficiency or service.
Beautiful rooms from 8/6 per day,
including breakfast.
Luxurious suites all at reduced rates.
Very special reductions for extended
periods.
THE ORIENTAL HOTEL CO. PTY., LTD.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
D. G. BAKER, Manager.
ABORIGINALITIES
“ Jenny Lintott”; Binghi only grins when
the anthropologists come to measure his
head, count his teeth and class him just a
little higher than the beasts that perish, and
sometimes he gets back on them in a way
they don’t suspect. A world’s authority
wandering in the Brock’s Greek (N.A.)
vicinage last year promised one Flowerpot
“plenty big mob tobacco” if he could lead
him to native carvings, “all same this pfeller”
—and he produced the picture of a specimen.
Flowerpot a week or two later led the savant
to a cliff-face scrawled deep with “che-nake,
pish, alligator”; everything, in short, the
doctor ordered. It was a month after the
notable left that he informed a station-
manager’s wife “Mechelf bin makim that
one him bin talk.” Again at Lagrange,
where a scientist is making a study
of Jacky-Jacky, somebody hailed an old
scamp of his camp, “Hey, Gibbin, how you
get on with the doctor? I bet you tellem
big lie!” Gibbin smiled apologetically. “He
likum big lie,” he said.
* - * * :U
“No. 1570” : Bricks aren’t the only unex-
pected explosives. About a thousand of us,
just after the Armistice, were camped on
the concrete floor of a disused factory in
Belgium. The wind howled and snow floated
in through broken windows. Wood was
gathered, and soon 50 fires were blazing.
Suddenly a fire next mine flew into the air
accompanied by a deafening report. Bang
followed bang, and the air was full of flying i
firebrands. As a body the thousand of us
ducked behind such scanty cover as the
place afforded, thoughts of Gerinan traps
flashing through our minds. The explosions
ceased, and we crept out to investigate.
Where each fire had been there was a
shallow circular pit. A big disc of concrete
had blown out, exposing the rubble beneath.
The violent heat had forced the concrete to
leave its bed.
* t * * #
“Wandi”: Some men on the long trails
spend, hours nearly every morning looking
for : their horses, whilst others never have
any trouble and do very little . walking.
Generally in the latter case the moke is
encouraged to come to the. camp about the
time he is wanted by giving him a bit of
damper. On barren tracks, where horses are
most liable to wander and often get lost,
the titbit saves many a long tramp. I have
seen men travel for weeks through drought-
stricken country and keep their horses sleek
and fat. They gave them a small lump of
damper night and morning. Most horses
will leave the best grass at the usual time
if they are used to getting only a mouthful
of the camp luxury, and it doesn’t take much
a day to keep them in good condition.
PASSED WITH HONORS.
SERGEANT MULDOON : “Well, Maginnis, and ’tis the foine, fleshy, sthrong-lookin’ feller
ye are. Now, me bhoy, tell me —if a great): des[?]’rit fellie attacked ye wid a
knoife and a gun, what would ye do? Would ye foight or would ye run?”
RECRUIT MAGINNIS : “Shure, Sergeant, I would.”
SERGEANT: “Phwat! Ye would?”
RECRUIE: “Begorrah! I mane, I would not, sorr!”
SERGEANT: “Ah! that’s betther, now. G’long wid ye, an’ ’tis a credit to the foorce
ye’ll be.”
“Elderly Infant”: Every boy begins to
learn something about timber as soon as he
acquires his first pocket-knife; hence every
male Maorilander and a lot of Australians
of the older generation cherish kindly recol-
lections of what was known to the timber
trade and everyone else as “V.D.L.” It was
used for palings and shingles, and was popu-
larly supposed to come from
Tassie, as its name implied,
though it was a she-oak of a
sort the Speck isn’t credited by
the savants with producing. It
had one mighty virtue in boy-
hood’s eyes—it would split as
straight as a die nearly the full
length of a paling—and what
we would have done without it
for the manufacture of kites I
can’t imagine. Indeed, I trace
the desuetude of the great art
and mystery of kite-making and
-Hying to the increasing scar-
city of this wood There was,
of course, a season for kites—
how determined I have forgot-
ten, if I ever knew. They came
in all of a rush like a cholera
outbreak and went out as
swiftly and completely as they
came. They were of two types
—diamond-shaped and bow—
and ranged from 2ft. to 6ft. in
length, with long tails made of
paper spills that looked like a
snake’s backbone. Forty years
ago, looking' from the back
fence in the late sunshine of a
summer’s evening—in that far
southern latitude the sun stays
up till nine o’clock in Decem-
ber —I have counted 60 kites,
everyone of them home-made. The Japanese
contraption came later, and assisted in a
process of robbing boys of the incentive to
make things for themselves that I regard
as one of the many mistakes of the age.
* * * #
“Yarri”: Though no monuments mark the
many lonely graves that are scattered about
the bush there is generally a story about
each that keeps the sleeper in remembrance.
On the Flinders is Death’s Hole, where
Duncan Mclntyre perished while search-
ing for Leichhardt. On the Robert-
son are the graves of a father and
son named Corbett. ' The father was
murdered there by blacks in the ’seven-
ties. Forty years afterwards the son was
making for the river to see his dad’s grave.
and perished of thirst within two miles of
the spot. That’s Corbetts’ Flat. West of
Adavale is Jack-in-the-Rocks, named after
Jack Springs, who died there while in charge
of a mail change of Cobb and Cos. There
was no material to make a coffin, so they
cut a hole in the rocks and sealed him up in
that. Then there’s the Dead Secret —a patch
of scrub between Beni and Dubbo (N.S.W.).
Years ago a prospector flashed some fine
specimens of gold in Dubbo, and after a
good time there slipped off to get more.
Afterwards he was found dead in the scrub
and buried there. In what direction lay
his bonanza is the dead secret.
H: * * *
“Damba” : Very successful was that broad-
casting of the lyrebird’s imitations of other
birds (B. S/7/’3l). .The musician’s peculiar
habits made the canning process quite easy.
Each male bird has his own area of country,
and therein he ei'ects a mound on which to
dance and sing. In this case the mound was
located'and a “mike” concealed near by; a
long wire to a lorry containing the recording
outfit did the rest. Presently, doubtless, the
dancing will also be screened and a visual
as well as an audible record completed. I
doubt whether the average radio-jazz fiend
will hanker after the performance. When
8.8. C. radioed the song of the nightingale
it received numerous inquiries from cus-
I tomers asking what had gone wrong with
( the works —one gentleman complained he
could “only hear a kind of chirping!”
' sfc 1 # * *
“Mulgo” : The recent Lachlan floods pro-
vided a comedy at a spot near Condobolin.
In the first act a publican and a musician
went for a row, were capsized, and managed
to scramble into a tree. A constable
made a gallant attempt at rescue in
a dinghy, which was upset, and the
man in blue was marooned in the same
tree. A young man named Morton followed
in a canoe, and met with the same fate.
Then another policeman and a boy had a
go in a flat-bottomed boat; that craft
turned turtle alongside the tree, and there
were now six persons shivering in the
branches. There they were marooned for
four hours, while a crowd on the bank
offered sage advice. Finally Morton swam
ashore through 200 yards of swirling water
and swam back with a rope. On that, in the
dark and without their clothes, the cast-
aways got ashore.
ROLLIN’ COAL.
A STEAMBOAT CHANTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down in the belly of a deep-sea tramp
(Roll the coal, Geordie!),
Down in the dust and dark and damp
(Roll the coal along!),
The clang of the shovel on the stokehole
floor
And the bang of the slice on the furnace-
door
Are the fireman’s share of the Ocean’s Roar.
(Roll the coal, my hearties!)
When the Chief keeps hollerin’ he wants
more steam
(Roll the coal, Geordie !),
With a big sea follerin’ abaft the beam
(Roll the coal along!),
And the blarsted starboard bunker’s crammed,
We’ve a list to port, and the chutes are
jambed,
And the Old Man’s wishin’ of us dead an’
damned!
(Roll the coal, my hearties!)
Oh, a stokie’s work is the work for me!
(Roll the coal, Geordie!),
In bilge an’ cinders up to your knee
(Roll the coal along!).
If you ain’t too young- an’ you ain’t too old,
An’ the heat don’t kill you an’ you don’t
ketch cold,
It’s a job as nobody'd swap for gold!
(Roll the coal, my hearties!)
BEFORE AND AFTER ’ERBERT.
'ERB : "It was a good home I was born in—one o’ the best.”
’ORACE : “What’s it like now?”
But if ever I get my feet on shore
(Roll the coal, Geordie!),
A stoker’s life for me no more
(Roll the coal along!).
To shovel an’ rake a long farewell!
To barrow an’ slice a lifelong spell!
And if ever we meet it’ll be in Hell!
(Rollin’ coal, my hearties!)
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
THE
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
tThemistocles 11,500 tons, Sept. 9
♦Nestor .. 15,000 „ Oct. 6
J Ceramic . . 18,500 ~ Oct. 24
♦Anchises . . 10,000 „ Nov. 23
tEuripides . . 15,000 „ Dec. 2
♦First class only. fFirst and third class.
tCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
I Joint
j' Agents
is
3
To see the world’s finest scenery,
travel C.P.R. to England.
Get BeatenTrack
Stay at a Bungalow Camp
in the Canadian Rockies.
WHAT a care-free life! Bracing air—warm sun-
lit days—a mountain pony—inviting trails and
the urge to be going. A hundred new things to do
and see. A comfortable bungalow—good food—
evening camp fires—a jolly crowd, and cosy beds.
There’s romance, new life and new health for you
in Canada’s Rockies. This different holiday can be
planned by Canadian Pacific for Australia
to England travellers. Ask for details and
literature.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
12/31.2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
ZJhe World's G/p,
mvmmm
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
One Class Only,
TO PLYMOUTH & LONDON, via SUEZ.
Calling at Colombo, Port Said and Malta.
Single, two- four- and six-berth Porthole Cabins.
SPEED, EXCELLENT CUISINE AND ALL MODERN
COMFORTS—STEEL SWIMMING BATH.
Fares to London from £3B. To Colombo from £22
Special Excursion Return Tickets
to Colombo from £32
All passage money paid in Australia subject to the
addition of exchange.
Freight Agents .
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Joint Passenger Agents.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Tel.: 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.,
Tel.: 87511. 247 George Street, Sydney.
THE PATRIOT
IgjgCTMDjyM^WDM^
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ẁ
REPENTANCE HALF PRICE.
“Yes, but the dog was stolen, and I couldn’t give you a pound for stealing my dog!”
“Well, Mister, give us half a quid for repenting and bringing him back?”
aged to rear one, and it now follow's her
like a shadow. When its mistress is away
it is disconsolate. The other night its owner
was at a dance, two miles aw'ay, when into
the hall flew the curlew. In its dainty,
ethereal manner, half-running and pausing,
it swept through the hall until it found its
friend; then it gave a satisfied cooing cry
and brushed affectionately against dier dress.
* * *: . *
“Palanda’’: The making of dug-out canoes
is a strenuous industry among coastal
natives of North Australia. Trees suit-
able for canoe-making are not common, and
good ones usually have somebody’s mark
chopped in the bark. Nobody
can tell from the mark whom
it belongs to. but it obviously
belongs to ■ somebody, and as
that somebody may be lurking
in the offing with a spear, that
is sufficient. The three qualifi-
cations for a tree for canoe-
making are size, soundness and
nearness to water. The favo-
rite timber is white cedar, which
is easily worked, light and
strong,; but as it isn’t very
common the canoe-maker usu-
ally has to put up with some-
thing not quite as nice. Mak-
ing a canoe is a family affair,
the experienced members doing
the more difficult work, and the
inexperienced ones the slogging,
of which there is plenty. A
week’s work may be needed to
fall the tree, usually about sft.
in diameter at the base. The
job is: done with small toma-
hawks with bush-made handles,
and invariably very blunt.
When the tree is down it is
trimmed and shaped, and then
the ■ inside is chopped out in
sections. This occupies weeks.
When it is completed, all that
remains is to get the craft to
the water, which is done with
rollers and is no small job. The
abos. are said to have learnt
canoe-making from the Macas-
sars, who visited their coast
regularly for trepang long be-
fore. Captain Cook sighted,these
shores, and when Binghi had to
work with his primitive instru-
ments the labor must have been
tremendous. A large dug-out
will easily carry a dozen big-
men. The natives of Melville
Island often cross the 10-mil •
stretch of open sea to the main-
land in their canoes.
“Murihiku”: I don’t know what happens
to dead donkeys, but when the U.S.S. Co.'s
cargo steamers grow old they go to China,
In recent years the Kaitangata, Kaiapoi,
Kano, Koromiko, Karori and Kittawa have
all gone to sail the China seas. Last
month two others steamed away—the Kai-
tuna, which lay for a while in the oid
steamers’ Rotten Row in Auckland H’arbor,
and the Kamona, for some time past moored
at Port Chalmers
“Bad Australian”: Although the abos. used
beverages made from native fruit or flowers
macerated and steeped in water the .only in-
toxicating drink that appears to have been
knowm to them is a kind of beer derived from
the fruit of the pandanus or screw-pine by
certain tribes of the Gulf country. The fruit
is pounded between two stones and soaked in
water until the juice is extracted ; often the
liquor ferments in the process. From this
it would appear that Black Brother dis-
covered booze more by accident than design.
Although the alcohol content of this bever-
age is low, it has an exhilarating effect when
taken in large quantities. An abo. friend
NIL DESPERANDUM.
VISITOR: “Ten children in twelve years! That will take some beating, Mary?”
MARY: “Yeh. Don’ s’pose this-[?]feller ever do it again.”
told me that whenever he had absorbed a
skinful he “felt like-it plurry king all about
here.”
* .. . * * *
“James Repentant”: .“Qoldsalt’s” yarn
(B. 24/6/ r ’3l) , .about salting a prospect by
spitting ’bacca juice and gold into the pan,
makes me remember things. I’ve
Salvation Army and the game isn’t what it
was, anyhow; so here goes, to lift the lid off
some of the finer points of a very fine art.
“Goldsalt’s” refeipe is in the kindergarten
class. Dropping ash from a loaded cigarette
isn’t much more ’advanced. A simple varia-
tion is to have your finger-nails stuffed with
fine gold mixed with soot to hide the color.
On combing the dish with the fingers during
panning the gold is rubbed out by the sand.
If a dollied sample' is 1 to be’dealt with, buy
a new pestle and mortar, drill a hole in
the head of the'pestle, and into it hammer
a core of gold. Then blacklead the pestle.
When .the. victim trickles along point out
the brand, new 7 mortar as a guarantee of
good faith, and turn him loose to dolly the
sample, himself. The harder he w T orks the
more gold he will get. Buy a pestle with
a long handle so that Mr. Mug has to stand
up.. . He, is then not so liable to see things
he shouldn’t. If the sample is lode material,
add to a solution of chloride of gold a solu-
tion - of- sulphate of iron. “ The gold will
be precipitated .as a brown. sludge, which
on drying - is; about the same color as the
lode stuff. • But if you are panning off
another bloke’s sample, and,you get a “tail”
of brown mud that won’t shift, heat it on
a knife-blade. If it is precipitated gold, the
color of the metal will show up. Nice speci-
mens can be made by taking a lump of
honeycomb ironstone, bunging up the holes
with wet precipitated gold, and turning a
blowpipe on it till the gold melts. These
look very natural as long as nasty suspicious-
minded people don’t take a hammer to them.
In sampling, turn the canvas bag inside out
and examine the seam. If you see any
brown dust, suspect gold oxide. Don’t use
a bag with a running string in the neck. A
piece of sixteenth-bore copper tube can be
poked through pretty well any knot. Put
on half a dozen parallel turns of whipcord,
pulled absolutely taut, and smear sealing-
w r ax all over and into the turns so that the
seal can’t be taken off with a hot knife. If
the sample is in a bottle, don’t use a cork.
A hypodermic syringe filled with gold
chloride and the needle heated will go
through , seal and cork and not leave a mark.
Use a bottle with a recessed glass stopper,
and fill the recess flush up with sealing-wax.
It can’t be dug out, with a hot knife. If
you are doing an assay with someone else’s
gear, and are given a nice new crucible, bear
in mind that a little gold oxide and gum put
in the bottom with a sprinkling of pounded
crucible over it will materially affect the
result. Run a blank assay in case some
pilgrim has loaded your fluxes, and also
dissolve in nitric acid a fragment of the
silver foil used in cupellation. Any black
flakes remaining undissolved are probably
gold, and show that the foil has been
readied. Before weighing, test the balance
and see that the pointer is at zero. There
is a small vane on the beam and a touch
to that will make the pans swing either way.
I saw a smart Alec fall in over that in
Ivalgoorlie. He knew the whole game bar
that, and it cost him a hundred Jimmy
O’Goblins. Lastly, leave the whole crimson
game alone.
* * * *
“Beanbah”: Like “Gumblegubbin” (B.
l/7/’3l), I would be glad of enlightenment
concerning the methods of distinguishing
freaks from normal skulls. I’ve had a sus-
picion about the matter since I was told by
a pioneer of the Talgai district about an abo.
monstrosity who used to accompany one of
the Darling Downs tribes in their wander-
ings. The strange creature was regarded as a
supernatural being by the rest of the tribe,
and was treated with reverence. My friend
swears that the abo.’s head conformed in all
respects to the description of the “prehis-
torie” skull unearthed at Talgai.
,** * *
“Mullarula” : It seems a pity that some of
our most beautiful woods cannot be seasoned,
Few timbers have a lovelier grain than
the common brigalow, but few crack
more horribly in drying. I have tried sea-
soning it in the shade and in the sun, but
the cracks opened just the same. Perhaps
a long soaking in water would do the trick,
Murrumbidgee sawmillers always choose for
the solid wooden wheels of their tracks logs
dredged up from the river-bed, and they
never crack. What applies to river-gum
may apply to other timbers. It seems worth
a trial.
* * * *
“Murrungurry” : Ever smoke “planters’
plug”? I struck that brand first in the Texas
(Q.) tobacco-growing district; asked a
planter for a pipeful, and he hauled out a
long brown twist like a rope’s end. Though
Greenup Bros.’ factory, which turned out
a strong black tobacco, was on the spot, most
of the growers, he told me, used the home-
made stuff. After drying the leaves were
sprinkled with rum and pressed, then twisted
into a long tight rope. Some kept it in a
coil, others cut off a quarter of a yard or
so as they wanted it. To me it was a mild,
unsatisfying smoke, but perhaps the bloke
didn’t put enough rum in it.
A CATTLE CAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun is sinking slowly, and lengthening
shadows linger,
As loath to merge their measures with the
amplitude of night,
When the Master Electrician on the system
puts a finger.
And checks the flow of current that pro-
vides “the thing called Light.’’
Above a quarter-moon is coming faintly into
vision.
And ,from the unexplored of Space, be-
wilderiugly afar,
Penetrating density with age-long, set
precision,
Light glows to earth’s illuming from
Heaven’s farthest star.
A great, pervading silence is all ungently
broken.
As moving through the mulga the cattle
slowly string,
And drovers riding loosely are steadying the
leaders
With softened voice and gentle urge as on
to camp they swing.
The quiet round-up ended, the horseboy takes
his charges;
The first watch goes on duty, the long
day’s drove is done;
The prospect of a record drive to hopefulness
enlarges—
We’re one day nearer Wyndham from the
far-off Murchison.
ŵ
M2.


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
ẃ
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
5ELL&C°t<t.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
4»=
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
.Cough?
Driven into the Cold Snow
by a Harsh Father
If it isn’t a harsh parent who’s doing the driving, and if the cold snow is
falling on the heights of MT. BUFFALO NATIONAL PARK—well, there’s
more cause for exhilaration than despair in such an experience.
Still, on reflection, no one ever needs to be driven into the snow at Buffalo,
while the harshest and most brutal father woiild soon be mellowed into a
gently tolerant frame of mind by the invigorating joys of skating, ski-ing,
falling off toboggans, sculpting Epstein-like snow-men and hurling snowballs
at unsuspecting guests.
A big reduction in the winter tariff at The Chalet has brought the cost of a
week’s holiday at Mt. Buffalo (Vic.), between July 24 and August 20, DOWN TO
£B/10/-, all travel charges from Melbourne included. This rate also applies
during the Christmas fortnight. For (he rest of 'the year The Chalet tariff is
only 15/- per day (day visitors slightly higher). Full information and booking
at the Government Tourist Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne; or Martin Place
Sydney (Vic. representative).
Are You Exploiting the
Queensland Market?
Many shrewd business men are con-
centrating on Queensland just now
because it offers the most favorable
market in Australia. They are with
equally sound judgment choosing
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
to carry their advertising announce-
ments. The “Daily Mail” is a proved
result-getter, and enjoys the confi-
dence of Queensland’s people. It
is the only daily in Brisbane that
has so far issued a certificate of its
net daily circulation. Rate Cards,
etc., from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
72 .PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
“The financial year commences this month.”
. —“Sun-”
What optimism!
¥ ¥
“The fame of to-day is mainly the shouting of the
publicity man.” —Dean Inge.
“The burble reputation," as Shakspeare
might have said.
¥ ¥
“In California, owing to the hot weather, a
system of open-air courts has been adopted.”
It is known as. sitting in summery juris-
diction.
¥ ¥
“PARTY’S END.”
(A Review.)
Here is another of those prophetic novels
about the war to end party war which are
all the vogue in N.S.W. just now. “Stark”
is the only word to apply to it. What could
be more soul-searing than the proceedings in
the beleaguered Blight-street cave?
“They’re out to cut my political throat,” muttered
Captain Bavin. Sergeant ParkhiU’s eyes glittered
behind his pince-nez. There was nothing of fear
in tlie gesture with which he fondled the gold pass
THE SPUR.
WIFE: “Hit a little harder, darling—pretend it’s a rival
for my hand!”
of valor on his stomach; only a bull-dog resolve to
hang on. Anyhow, his throat wasn’t menaced.
“How many are we, sir?”
“Call the roll,” ordered the captain, his voice
weakened to a whisper by months of effort to out-
howl the mouth-fighters of the Macquarie-street front.
“Private and Mrs. Wubbins, of Darling Point.”
“Missing.”
“Private, Mrs. and the Misses Glump, of Edge-
cliff.”
“Missing.”
“Sergeant-major Hughes (W.M.), of Lindfield.”
“Dismissed the. service.”
And so the ghastly ritual proceeded till the name
of Corporal Holman was reached. “Here, sir!” and
the veteran of countless wordy battles, for and against
his present command, sprang smartly to attention.
The captain considered him dubiously. “Too old,”
he gloomed, “and our platoon of Young Nat.
Speakers is too dashed young.”
A roar shook the dug-out. The intensive bombard-
ment from the What Our Readers Think sector had
re-commenced.
A lyric spirit, worthy of Tennyson at his
best, marks the description of the charge
of the A.F.A. Brigade:—
Suddenly, furiously, with a Gallic elan, a Germanic
doggedness, the newly-recruited battalions broke cover
and swept to the attack. They seethed out of
solicitors’ offices, importers’ warehouses, general stores
and suburban golf clubs; in their ranks were pot-
bellied bankers and their herring-gutted clerks,
doddering haberdashers and their stripling employees,
rock-choppers from Bondi, W. and S. Board officials
from Mascot, jobbing gardeners from Turramurra.
“At ’em, boys!” roared Field-Marshal Gordon
Bennett, and waved them on with a Contemptuous
Refusal to Attend Any More A.F.A.-Nat. Conferences.
In the teeth of a murderous fire of Withdrawn En-
dorsements and Life-long Disqualifications, poured
into them by “Big Bluff,” the Nat. Machine, the
rebels pressed foward.
Restrain a shudder, if you can, in face of
the ultimate horror :
“They’re calling on me to chuck it,” said Captain
Bavin.
“There are recognised avenues of escape,” hinted
his tactful sarge, and pointed to a well-worn cross-
roads with signposts inscribed “To K.8.E.” and
“To Judgeship.” The C.O. shook his head. “Too
late,” he sighed. At that moment “Big Bluff”
burst with a terrific explosion that fairly put the
wind up the Trades Hall boys who were using the
original model, and the cave collapsed. The “S. M.
Herald” had withdrawn its support!
10-2-4.
¥ ¥
The wage-earner pays a great tribute to
Lang.
¥ ¥
ENDORSEMENT.
1 quite agree that “money talks,”
For when my Mils I fail to pay
I find it needs a lot, of words
To say the things cash ought to say.
H. 11.
DAY IN LIFE OF A RAIL-
WAY COMMISSIONER.
10 a.m.—Addresses central
executive of Country Women’s
Assoc, on the Manifold Diffi-
culties of Railway Adminis-
tration.
11 a.m. —Distributes prizes
at Gloopwood M etliodist
Ladies’ College, and makes
speech on Intricacies of Rail-
way Management.
1 p.m.—Lunch at Millions
Club. Address on Ramifica-
tions and Perplexities of Rail-
way Control.
3 p.m.—E ntertained by
Feminist Club. Talk on Oner-
ous Duties of Railway Organi-
sation.
4 p.m. O p ons Iceland
Poppy Show. Reference to
Arduous Work of Railway
Commissioners.
7 p.m.—Dinner with Motor
Traders’ Association. Speech
on Multitudinous Embarrass-
ments of Railway Authorities.
' S. W. K.
¥ ¥
After all, Labor was never
given a madmandate to govern
N.S.W.
¥ ¥
“Most politicians are very self-
possessed.”-—“Age.”
Yet they could nearly all do
with some presents of mind.
¥ ¥
“Customs officials say cocaine-
running is more prevalent during
the winter months.”
As the saying goes, “It’s
cold enough for snow.”
THE NARK.
“An American doctor has discovered a drug which
gives those who take it a perfect memory of past
events.”
_As the distinguished surgeon was wending
his way homewards, his mind full of his
marvellous discovery, dark forms sprang at
him from a side street.
Bludgeons rose and fell, and in a short
space the victim lay lifeless.
“We’ve sone him in,” said one of the
assailants.
“Serve the cow right,” agreed t^ie
leader of the band. “If people like him were
allowed to get away with it, politicians like
us wouldn’t be able to make a living.”
P.
ẅ
“She had made mistakes in their domestic life,
admitted the wife. On one occasion when she tried
to hit her. husband with a saucepan, her brother-in-
law got in the way.”— “Sun.”
Enough to take the heart out of any
woman who is aiming to do her best.
* ¥
IN MEMORIAM.
More sadly missed than words can tell —
The weekly screw I loved so well.
—lnserted by a sincere mourner who fell
for J. T. Lang.
Dugal McSlugged.
REMARKS WE ARE TIRED OF
HEARING.
Bookmaker: “I had a great win to-day.”
Civil. Servant: “I’m overpaid.”
Business Man : “I don’t take cold showers
in winter.”
Man in Street: “I had nothing in the Sav-
ings Bank.”
Footballer: “I deserved to be sent off.”
Chemist: “You won’t find this as good.”
Shop Assistant: “I never wear ’em my-
self.” '
Music Teacher: “Your daughter is hope-
less.”
Hairdresser : “What thick hair !”
Dentist: “Your teeth are perfectly sound.”
T. F.
“Yer needn’t keep it (hic) up, m’ dear—
I’m not list’nin’.”
“Men can make £1 a day collecting bottles.”
—Sydney “Telegraph
Many will make a note of this.
¥ ¥
TOPICAL LITANY.
INFLATE your chest.
CHEAT the slump.
REPUDIATE repudiation.
DEFAULT on gloom.
BORROW some optimism.
SWINDLE the undertaker.
P.
A GLIMMER OF HOPE.
PARTY UNITY ACHIEVED AT MUDGEE.
— “S. it/. Herald” headlines.
Australia’s in a devil of a mess;
In Parliament is schism, storm and stressj
The road to Better Days, one must confess,
Is deep in ruts and singularly sludgy.
Our politicians hr aid, a factious crowd
With grace and wisdom scantily endowed.
Put stay! I see a glimmer through the cloud
■That hangs above, so lowering and smudgy.
Come, brother mine, and let us boiv the knee
And thank the Lord that party unity,
However indiscernible it be
At Adaminaby and Dungaree,
Has been ■ achieved at Mud gee.
FORCE OF HABIT.
They sat in solemn conclave, the last sur-
viving members of what had once been a
great organisation.
At last the president rose, grave of face.
“Well, gents.,” lie said, “the total roll-up
to-night has just given us a quorum. If
we pass the usual resolutions there won’t
be no quorum at all for the next meeting.
I therefore suggest that the usual resolu-
THE COINCIDENCE.
THE MAN: “We’ve been in this country three generations. My
grandfather was a gold-digger in the ’sixties.”
THE MAID: “Goodness! So was my grandmother.”
tion embrace all present. t ßefore I formally
move to that effect, do any of you blokes
dissent ?”
His eye swept fiercely over the assembly,
but all apparently agreed. His motion was
put to the meeting,and carried unanimously.
The N.S.W. State A.L.P. executive, hav-
ing no one else left to expel, had expelled
itself.
S. W. K.
VICE-REGAL NEWS.
“Premier Lang intends to appoint a State Governor
with Communistic leanings in Sir Philip Game’s
place. ’’—“Sunday Guardian.”
II.E. the Governor gave a smart Bring
Your Own Lunehtin yesterday in honor of
fellow-members of the fashionable East
London Blood and Revolution Club, of which
ho is a past president. Amongst other good
Aussies present were Comrades Garden and
Grant (Scotland), Boche and Blutwurst
(Germany), Itchi and Moscowoff (Russia)
and Slaughterstein (Poland). The Gover-
nor, who presided, said: “Comrade Luna-
charsky, who, when first elected to the L. B.
and R., was a little-known thug operating
ingloriously in country lanes and the like,
now stands high in the councils of the move-
ment with close on a million deaths to his
credit. The Pride of Bolshevism, as he has
been aptly named, is with us in spirit to-
day. See that you prove worthy of him by
voting and working for penal taxation, which
will cost more and more workers their jobs,
and so drive them to disorder whether they
like it or not.”
After three hearty Slavonic cheers for
national insolvency the guests dispersed to
attend stop-work meetings in various parts
of the city.
An ultra-chic children’s party was ten-
dered by her Ex. on Sunday to the little
ones of the Balmain Tots’ Communistic Sab-
bath School. Little Alice Bludshed, aged 8,
won first prize for her clever rendition of
“You start the shooting, boys; I’ll bolt for
me life,” with effective lantern slide depict-
ing our beloved Premier running strongly in
the direction of his country estate, while
behind him, in the city, all is chaos. After
an enjoyable tea of dole rations the happy
kiddies indulged in such improving games as
“ Stuffing the Ballot-box” (for which a real
ballot-box, ready stuffed, was kindly sup-
plied by Sydney Trades Hall), “Scabber’s
Knock” and “Putting the Boot In.” A full-
sized dummy policeman, similar to the one
used for practice purposes by members of
the G.II. staff, was lent by his Ex. for the
last-named frolib.
After dining at Government House on
Monday radiant Mrs. “Gert” Sludge (who
recently opened an exclusive liam-and-beefery
in Ultimo, and is getting plenty of free
advts. from the vice-regalities in return for
free ham), accompanied by “Bill” Grabble,
of the historic Garbage-shifters’ Union, and
Captain Pliig, A.D.C. (Storemen and Pack-
ers’), attended a'debate on the Lang Plan.
The vice-regal party's
ŵ
regal car, in which the Governor and Pre-
mier refuged, is of the armored tyne, and has
So far frustrated all efforts of proletarians
to come to close quarters with their rulers.
D. J.


%
m
%
H
ii
\
.i*hV
jr.- Jv %jf /h 4. ‘
B^/Cs*syiv.i
£
N
■
■
'M
m
w
M
IW|$lU
aitiOj) Ql l
no
%
jiv
T
FtDf\
souiwmi
&U|
I*lH
«
ijiiiMn" : i : ' :!
«
jJlilO.
&
mv
w
Vi
m
m
'^sm
vV
£3*^3
\
J93IJLIO SWOjSII} aijj fiq
aaaavno
FROM CASK
TO BOTTLE
é
m
and me
Nations.
favourite


A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY
Is presented to-day to purchase
SHEEP PROPERTIES IN QUEENSLAND
at reasonable prices.
The Lower Working Expenses and good length of Tenure create great
possibilities in th&
PASTORAL INDUSTRY
We invite intending buyers to call upon us and discuss their requirements,
as we have an attractive list ol
LEASEHOLD and other Properties carrying from 4000 to 50,000 sheep.
Particulars of areas required will be sent on application to —
THE AUSTRALIAN ESTATES & MORTGAGE CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton and Townsville.
mi n »m :] mi : m:i u u«j
!P
WmiINFOTO
Such is the efficiency of the British “RENRUT” Quadruple!
Owing to patented principles this pump, although smaller in
diameter than many other pumps, gives far more air per
stroke, and with much less effort than usual. Every detail
is engineer-designed and flawlessly finished in the finest
British style to give endless service under any conditions.
RENRUTQUADRUPLE
Patentees and Hole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
If unable to obtain, write to our Factory Representa-
tive: Mr. JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
PRICE,
60/-
With gauge,
5/- extra.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
BENEFITS OF WINTER FEEDING.
“Hortus”: It pays cow-farmers to hand-
feed during the winter months. With bran
down to £3 a ton, a good many North Coast
(N.S.W.) fanners are finding it more econo-
mical to chaff the bulky fodder and feed it
in the stalls with bran and linseed than to
throw the stalks out in the paddocks (a
common practice hitherto), and it is proving
better in every way. There is no bullying
on the part of the more assertive animals;
the cows can cat their fill at leisure. Throw-
ing of the stalks out into the paddock, where
they are tfampled into the mud in some
cases, does not make the meal an attractive
one. There has been too much of this happy-
go-lucky style of farming.
A North Coast illustration proves the
benefit of chaffing the feed and balancing the
ration. In 1929 Eric Harris, of Ewingdale,
feeding 41 cows on cow-cane and saccaline
spread in the paddock, obtained the follow-
ing weights of commercial butter: June.
3851 b.; July, 3491 b.; August, 3111 b.; Sep-
tember, 4501 b.; October, G751b.; total, 21731 b.
In 1930, feeding 38 cows on chaffed cow-cane
and saccaline, mixed with bran and linseed,
he got these results: June, 6761 b.; July,
6361 b.; August, 5911 b.; September, 8771b';
October, 13001 b.; total, 40801 b. and three
cows fewer.
On a recent visit to the North Coast, I
found a number of dairymen relying entirely
on the ever-present paspalum, with a crop
of corn or cow-cane here and there. They
owned up to a. big drop in yields during the
winter season. Now's their chance. With a
little extra work they can make up for past
losses, and, what’s more, maintain their herds
in a healthier and more contented condition.
DEAR DAIRY COWS.
“Gordo Blanco”: With butter-fat at Is.
Id. or Is. 2d., cows are bringing up to £2O
for good sorts and £l4 to £l6 for ordinary
kinds in Victoria. Only a very poor one
fetches less than £lO. There is any amount
of feed, butter-fat is cash, and buyers are
encouraged by factories and auctioneers. If
the auctioneer doesn’t arrange for payment
by definite instalments of the cream cheque
there may be an understanding that the'
account will be met from cream receipts.
A man with a herd is financed to buy two
or three more cows, provided he hands in
half his cream cheque to pay off the debt.
It is hard to see where the factories bene-
fit. They get no more cream, the cows only
going from one paddock to another, so why
they encourage it is incomprehensible. The
auctioneer, of course, gets his commission.
For some time, stock sales have been often
only book entries from one debtor client td
another, so that the influx of a little cream
money is welcome. Some men have sold up
their herds and are rearing yearlings, protest-
ing that they can make more by selling than
they can get out of the cows in 12 months,
and th'at when the heifers come in they will
start again. I was present at a sale when
cows with three teats, two teats, and only
one teat (their udders ruined by bad hand-
ling) realised £l2. Meanwhile the purchaser
is giving up half his income to pay for an
article which must slump in value, and con-
demning himself to hard labor to pay for
it. When exchange rights itself it will trim
twopence or threepence from butter prices;
moreover, increasing production is reducing
the benefits of the Patterson scheme. Of a
truth inflation is not confined to note-printing.
BLOWFLY-PROOF SHEEP?
“Liss”: I can’t agree with “Azac” (B.
l/7/’3l) that “it remained for Dr. H. R.
Seddon, of the Glenfield Veterinary Research
Station, and his co-workers to prove” that
sheep with a wrinkly breech are prone to
attack by fly. The research station has
done, and will continue to do, great things
for the man on the land, but this fact was
recognised by practical sheepmen a great
many years before the Glenfield station was
thought of. There are certain ewes in every
•flock that are always getting struck. They
are not always “wrinkly tails,” either,
though generally they have a fold or two
on the ham and perhaps a depression on
the point of the tail. But, then, sheep get
struck anywhere at all when flies are thick
and weather conditions are favorable to the
pest; so we can’t always blame the wi’inkle.
A certain amount of development is neces-
sary for the breeding of high-class stud
sheep, and such development will appear in
some sheep in flocks bred from those studs:
but, as “Azac” says, they should be elimi-
nated as far as possible by classing.
The main factor in keeping a flock as
immune from tiy-strike as is humanly pos-
sible is the health of the sheep itself. This
is a phase of our constant war against the
blowfly that is overlooked to a great extent.
For instance, it is a generally-known fact
that “wormy" sheep are more susceptible
to attack than healthy ones, and that a flock
with access to a constant supply of a suit-
able salt-lick are less so. Therefore one
should determine what is the best lick under
local conditions, and keep it in front of the
sheep—the ewes, at any rate—-at all times. An-
other point to be considered is the fact that
if flies are present, as is always the case if
conditions are favorable, they must respond
to the laws of Nature and breed somewhere ;
as the carrion, which is their natural breed-
ing-ground, is generally burnt or otherwise
destroyed as far as is possible, they deposit
their larvae and eggs on the stained patch
on the live sheep. And while ewes are ewes
there will always be that stained patch, so
that the “flyproof sheep” would appear to
be impossible of attainment.
Carcases of sheep that die in the paddock
should be left till they are “ripe” and the
flies have gathered on them thickly. If
they are then poisoned with a 5 per cent,
solution of arsenic an enormous number of
both flies and maggots will be destroyed. If
each poisoning and trapping enthusiast, of
whom there are a great many, would per-
suade neighbors on all sides to do likewise
they would find themselves in the centre of
a comparatively clean area, and as each
new convert persuaded the man outside him-
self the area would increase. Complete free-
dom from flies would not be the result, hut
it is, so far, the best form of counter-attack
that has been evolved.
“Xerophyte”: If Dr. Seddon has evolved
a race of sheep which do not, for some
physiological reason, attract the fly, then he
has done us a service indeed. This, all the
more so because the characteristic has been
shown to be hereditary. Instead of having to
drain the pond to get rid of mosquitoes, he
will have shown us how to keep it, and
at the same time stop the insects from breed-
ing. Speaking of breeding for flyproof con-
formation, why on earth do we retain those
useless horns on our rams? What breeders
have done in perpetuating polled races of
cattle they ought to be able to do with
rams. A measure of genetic research here
could do much to make things easier for us.
FAT-LAMB PRODUCTION.
“T.X.0.”: The 1929 returns quoted by
“Golightly” (B. l/7/’3l) are admittedly
satisfactory, and I know of many other
breeders who netted round about the same
amount per head when the overseas market
was quoted at lOd. and higher. One swallow
does not make a summer, however, and the
fact that there are many practical lamb-
raisers who normally can make a good living-
does not prove that the bulk of Australian
sheep country is suited to the industry. Take
Queensland. Over the whole of that vast
territory there is only one small spot where
intensive crossbred lamb-raising is being suc-
cessfully carried on—the Darling Downs.
Whether there are other suitable areas is a
moot point.
I have already pointed out that the qual-
ity of our exports has materially improved ;
the quantity also has increased consider-
ably. I am not suggesting that we have
reached the limit of our output, but we are
still a long way behind in the race. For the
past three or four years Maoriland exports
averaged nearly 6,000,000 carcases annually.
For the 1929-30 season Australia exported
2,132,738 carcases. The present year’s
figures are not yet available, but the fore-
going should be sufficient to show the gulf
that has yet to be bridged.
A GOOD WORD FOR FLATWEED.
“Tumbe Munda”: A very useful pasture
plant has spread over a large extent of
country. It has many localised names; I
have heard it called “the yellow flower,”
“the milky weed” and “English dandelion,”
and our South Aus. Agricultural Depart-
ment names it “rooted cat’s-ear.” In Victoria
it is known as “flatweed,” from its habit of
growing flat on the ground. It is rather like
the English dandelion, except that the dan-
delion produces hut one flower per stem
while the flatweed throws up a many-
branched stem on which form numerous
flowers. The stem is hollow with a milky
exudation w’hen broken.
This plant appeared first on the flats,
where it grew very thick. In the summer
months its long tap-root draws up the mois-
ture, so that with the aid of just a few
light showers the flats become a blaze of
yellow blooms. The flowers are the principal
food portion and are very fattening. One
drawback on the flats is that where it has
taken possession there is not much winter
food. On high ground of poor quality, how-
ever, flatweed just gives the sheep a por-
tion of their ration, and it is so succulent
that they are kept in good health and
enabled to extract the full amount of nourish-
ment from the dry feeds. Further, a number
of graziers who have made their lambing
season February and March, instead of
winter, so escaping the rough weather, find
that with the aid of flatweed the ewes have
a better milk supply than in winter time.
Anyone desiring to establish the plant may
do so if he goes in summer to some district
where it grows. The seed is easily gathered
by hand, and if just scattered in the paddock
(provided conditions are congenial) it will
soon appear and spread, the seed being wind-
borne.
USE OF ARSENIC.
“As2o3”: The first and most important
consideration when using arsenic, whether for
poisoning green timber, killing weeds, or as
a parasiticide, is to get it thoroughly dis-
solved. Secondly, the solution must be a
permanent one, i.e., the arsenic ought not
to crystallise out again on cooling and stand-
ing in the form of a fine powder or gritty
deposit. Most of the formulae advocated from
time to time prescribe boiling the arsenic
with washing-soda “until dissolved.” The
trouble with washing-soda is that the boiling
process involves hours of patient watching
and stirring, and even then not only do some
grades of arsenic fail to go completely into
solution, but in many cases when the process
seems to be successful a fraction of the
poison separates out on setting aside for a
few hours.
If caustic soda is used instead of -washing-
soda and the following method adhered to,
particular regard being paid to relative quan-
tities, the same chemical product is formed
and the resulting solution is stable and per-
manent. Weigh out the required amount of
powdered white arsenic and lightly mix it in
a kerosene-tin in the dry state with one-
fourth of its weight of powdered caustic
soda. Then pour cold water over the mix-
ture in the proportion of one pint to each
pound of arsenic. The fluid will immediately
become very hot. Stir with a stick until no
powder is left undissolved; this generally
takes from three to five minutes. While the
mixture is still hot,, make up to the desired
bulk by the addition of cold water or by
pouring into cold water.
It ought to be more generally realised
that arsenic, whether in powder or solution,
is rapidly absorbed into the system through
the skin. Want of proper care in handling
it often results in nasty ulcerating sores
on the hands or painful rashes on the neck,
back and chest. Before using arsenic, there-
fore, the hands and arms should he smeared
with petroleum jelly or thick mineral oil—
rubbing it well under the nails. Animal or
vegetable fats are almost useless for this
purpose.
PAPER-BAGS FOR SUPER.
“R. K. Deea”: The cement or slaked lime
I buy is supplied in brown paper-bags, but
artificial fertiliser comes along in containers
made of jute. In U.S.A., super, is sold in
paper-bags, and experience proves them to be
a very good substitute for the more expensive
jute-hag. The bags are made of five-ply
paper of good heavy quality, reinforced by
means of seam-sewing at the top and bottbm.
They are practically moisture- and air-proof
and are made to hold lewt.
The quality, of super, supplied to American
farmers is much inferior to the Australian
article, and it is possible that the acidity of ;
the latter is higher. This is important
because acid is the stuff which destroys the
bags. However, as the major portion of the
super, sold in this part of the world is not
held in the containers for very long the
risk attached to free acid damaging the
paper-bag is small.
The scheme, at any rate, is well worth “a
fly.” Paper is not as strong as jute, and
therefore the paper-bag is not made so large.
Personally I would prefer to handle my
super, in smaller containers, provided I did
not have to pay anything extra for the
privilege. Present price of jute-bags is
somewhere in the vicinity of Bs. a dozen,
whilst the paper-bags cost approximately 3s.
As 12 jute- and 20 paper-bags go to the ton
of super., the paper-bag shows a credit of
three shillings per ton. Certainly it would
cost more to fill and handle the smaller
paper-bag, which in addition is useless once
its contents are tossed into the drill. Still,
paper-bags are moisture-proof, easy to
handle (a one-man job) and can be wholly
produced in Australia.
FELLING AND SPLITTING TIMBER.
‘‘Bad Australian”; The grain of a tree
is usually indicated by the grooves and ver-
tical markings on the bark. Where there is
any doubt the matter may be determined by
cutting out a chip about 9in. long, which
when split across the annular rings will show 1
whether there is a “wind” in the grain or
not, and whether the timber is tough or
free splitting.
In felling a tree, first place a small log
in such a position that the butt of the fallen
tree will rest on it, thus leaving a clear
space between log and ground. If the log
is flush with the ground some difficulty will
be experienced in removing the bark and
finishing the saw-cuts. Next, at a convenient
height, remove a strip of bark about a foot
or 15in. deep right round the trunk and
cut a scarf in the “front,” or leaning side,
making the bottom of the scarf correspond
with the lower edge of the barked surface.
This done, make a small horizontal nick
across the “back” about Gin. higher than the
bottom of the scarf to support the saw until
the cut is properly started.
Keep the saw horizontal and work in until
the blade is covered; then work round
towards the scarf, first on one side and then
the other. When you have cut w r ell around
on each side, resume the first position and
continue cutting until the tree falls. Should
it be.perfectly vertical, and the top evenly
balanced, the scarf should be cut facing the
direction in which it is intended that tile
tree should fall, and when the saw has been
worked well in it should be followed by one
or two wedges, otherwise the cut will have
a tendency to close on it as the work pro-
gresses. As the cut nears completion, a little
intelligent manipulation of wedges will enable
the workman to throw the tree exactly where
he pleases. When it is down, square off the
butt, and mark the log to the lengths
required. Drive the axe through the bark
into the sapwood at each mark, and then,
taking the mark as a centre, remove a strip
of bark about Gin. w T ide right round the log,
to allow a free run for the saw.
Qpt through at each ma.rk, taking care to
keep the saw at right angles to the log.
If the tree has been felled on a slope, the
saw should be canted sufficiently to allow
for this, otherwise one side of the log will
be shorter than the other. If the sap is up,
the bark should be opened along the top of
the log and levered off with the axe or a
stout, flat-pointed stick, and then spread on
the ground with the sappy side down, and
weighted with just enough stones or small
logs to prevent buckling. If too heavily
weighted it may split when drying.
There are two methods of breaking up a
log—“backing,” or splitting between the
annular rings, and “quartering,” or splitting
across. Backing, which provides the
strongest billet, is the method generally used
for rails, but it is not unusual to see backed
rails and quartered posts. To halve the log,
take the maul and an entering wedge, and,
starting at the small end, punch a groove
from the bottom of the fog through the centre
to the top. Then drive a small wedge about
6in. from the bottom of the groove, followed
by another at a similar distance from the
top ; this will open the log from top to bottom
along the groove. Drive a big wedge into
the crack on top of the log and follow on,
double-banking if necessary, until the log is
opened along its full length: then break
apart with a lever. Turn halves on flat side
and divide in the same way, and billet up
by backing or quartering, as may be desired.
Waste pieces may be worked into droppers
or stakes, and the head of the tree should be
roughly stacked and burned, or cut into
lengths for firewood.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Possibilities of fat lamb-raising in the
Manilla (N.S.W.) district? (2) Could large-
framed merino ewes be used? (3) What
month should rams be joined? (4) At what
age should lambs be marketed, and where?
(5) Probable monetary return from 600
lambs?-— -4288.
(1) The district should be suitable, especi-
ally if fodder crops are grown. (2) Yes, but
the lambs will not be so satisfactory as
lambs from crossbred ewes. (3) Mating
should be arranged so that lambing will take
place at . the beginning of the best season
of the year, so that there will be plenty cf
feed to keep the lamb growing all the time.
December -and January should be the best
months, but the time may vary, due to special
conditions. (4) Lambs are marketed pre-
ferably as suckers when they reach a dressed
weight of 361 b. This will mean a live weight
of 751 b. to 801 b., allowing for loss of weight
in transit. (5) Good-quality lambs should
return 14s. to 17s. Gd. per head at Fleming-
ton.
How to kill bloodwood-trees when the
suckers have grown into a scrub? —4346.
_ A section of bark 9in. wide is removed
right round the trunk, the axe-cuts being
as light as possible. By this method trees
die very slowly, but suckering is reduced to
a minimum; If the suckers are not large
(Continued on Page 26.)


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4; Sex at
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring
Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the Young,
by Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; The Sex Factor in
Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3; Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene, by Howard, 7/-; Hygiene of
Marriage, by Isabel Hutton, 5/-; Practical Birth Control, by Hornibrook, 5/-; Exercises for
Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4; The Culture of the Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; The Doctor
at Home, by Geo. Black, M.D., 8/-; Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake, 5/4; Cocktails and How
to Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Letter
Writer, 3/4; The Letter Writers’ Handbook, 5/10; Foulsham’s Best 100 Recitations for Boys and
Girls, 3/4; Ten Best Card Games for Two, by B. Dalton, M.A., 1/6; Cards for Three, by Basil
Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/1; Popular Card
Games and How to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/5 ;
Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; Table
Rapping, 2/6; Practical Palmistry (Must.), Saint-Germain’s, 3/3; Practical Astrology, 3/3; Hand
Reading Made Easy, by Noel Jaquin, 4/-; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6;
Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; How Shall I Word It? 2/8; The New
Ford, by E. T. Brown, 4/3; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8;
Hands and How to Read Them, 2/9 ; How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4/-; The Correct Guide
to Letter Writing, 5/5; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/9; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing
for Amateurs, 1/9; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/9; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/9;
Practical Joinery, by W. L. Savage, 1/-; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise
English Dictionary, 3/2; Pruning, 3/10; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L.
Savage, 1/6; Consult Me, 4/7; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 8/2 ; What to Draw and How to
Draw It, 4/10; Poultry Farming in N.S.W., by James Hadlington, 4/5; Owner Drivers’ Hand-
book, by Edward T. Brown, 5/5; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Polishes and Stains
for Woods, 2/6; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-; How to Drive a Car, 4/1;
SEX AND DISEASE
A
PRACTICAL TREATISE ON SEXUAL AND VENEREAL DISEASES,
By ROBERT V. STORER, M.R.C.S. (Eng.), L.R.C.P. (Lond.).
With introduction by
Dr. J. S. PURDY,
D. 5.0., M.D. (Aberd.), D.P.H. (Camb.), F.R.S. (Edin.), F.R.5.1.,
Metropolitan Medical Officer of Health, Sydney.
FOURTH AUSTRALIAN
EDITION, ILLUSTRATED
PRICE 7/9, post free.
Double-bed Dialogues, 1/2 ; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century
Recipes, 21/-; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4 ; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4 ;
Cheiro Guide to the Hand, 4/1; Gypsy Queen Dream Book, 4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for
Australia, 2/3; Bell’s Acrostic Dictionary for Crossword Puzzles, 5/5; Nuttall’s Standard
Dictionary, 12/6; Dictionary of Quotations (Wood), 15/-; Games of Patience —series 1 to 5,
2/6; Profit and Discount Tables (Ody Rooks), 9/8; Universal Trade Reckoner, 4/3;
Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Sex and Disease
(Storer) —every young man should have this book, 7/9; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by
lon Idriess, 5/6; Housepainting, Decorating and Paperhanging, the best book on color mixing
and painting methods published, 13/9 ; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9 ; All About
Photography, 4/1; Enquire Within Upon Everything, 4/4; The Wrinkle Book, How to Keep
Looking Young, by Elinor Glyn, 2/6; Australian Squab Culture, 1/6; Marks’ Timber Ready
Reckoner, 2/2 ; Long’s Book of the Pig—Special Price —7/6; Storage Batteries Simplified, Page
—Special Price—6/-; Motor Cycling, by Wyatt—Special Price —2/-; Automobile and Radio
Batteries, by Cross, 5/3; Evening News Book of Gardening, 2/8; Pruning, by Dept, of Agriculture,
3/3; Proverbs and Maxims, 1/8; A to Z of Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2; Wisden’s
Cricketers’ Almanac for 1931, 9/2; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 1/9; Diesel Engine, by
.Jones —Special Price—ls/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3 ; Contract Bridge in Twenty
Minutes, 1/8 1001 Riddles, New and Old, 2/2; Impromptu Conjuring, 3/3; The Art of Boxing,
by Jimmy Wilde, 1/8; Everybody’s Pocket Encyclopaedia, 1/8; Hypnotism Made Practical, by
J. Louis Orton, 3/11; Nervous Breakdowns —How to Avoid Them, 4/-.
Try the Bookstall Co. for Books on Every Subject
WRITE FOR LISTS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE STOCKMAN’S WORK DEMANDS THE BEST
POSSIBLE ACCESSORIES. HERE IS THE MOST
IMPORTANT.
SELECTED CHROME BOX
UPPER LEATHER.
HAND-BLOCKED FRONTS.
-
the
MARANOA
MG.NB aS/?.
SELF-ADJUSTING
BUCKLE.
WHOLE-CUT BACK—
NO SEAM TO RIP.
REINFORCED
SIDE SEAM.
Patented Design,
No. 8517.
THE MARANOA
RIDING BOOT
Sold by Shoe Stores throughout Queensland.
The patented method of construction ensures long life and
good appearance. Choice uppers of strong, yet glovelike
leather, moulded on our special riding boot last, give utmost
comfort. Butt soles of our own renowned tannage, and
the best of workmanship all combine to make these boots
a line that cannot be excelled.
THIS PATENTED DESIGN IS OBTAINABLE ONLY IN BOOTS STAMPED
“MARANOA” Regd.
LOOK FOR OUR TAG AND BRAND ON SOLE.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHNSON & SONS
BRISBANE
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
1
10
Why hurry every morning?
ARE your mornings a gallop
or a saunter? Can you
stroll or must you run ?
With a Westclox... mornings
need never be hurried. This
reliable alarm always works...
always wakes you when you
wish.
Big Ben, Baby Ben and other
trustworthy Westclox come in
lustrous nickel or handsome
colors... at most good shops.
Prices 6/6 to 62/6.
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A,
Brown & Bureau Ltd., Distributors for Australia
Melbourne :: Sydney :: Perth :: Brisbane
108
ŵ
lAsten-in to Mick Simmons' “Snapshots oj Sport” Session,
Station 2UW, every Thursday, 7.15 p.m.
The Power behind
the Club
Power .. . yes, allied with the
user’s supreme confidence in
his or her implement of play.
That is the feeling dominat-
ing every golfer playing with
“Corry” Clubs.
“Will Corry”
Steel Shafted
De Luxe
Golf Clubs
PROFESSIONAL
GOLF TUITION
By Will Cony and
Assistants on the
Roof Sports
Ground. Moderate
Fees.
Embracing the most advanced scientific devel-
opments in golf club construction, and repre
senting the very highest standard in club manu
facture, golfers unstintingly acclaim them as the
last word in golf equipment.
NOTE.—Every purchaser of a set of “Corry
Clubs is entitled to a free lesson from Will
Corry.
■‘Corry” De Luxe Steel Shafted, Gun-
metal Finish, Matched Woods, Nos. 1
to 3 30/-
“Corry” De Luxe Steel Shafted, Gun-
metal Finish, Graded Irons, Nos. 1 to 9 30/-
“Corry” De Luxe Steel Shafted, Hick-
ory Sheath, Matched Woods, Nos. 1
to 3 37/6
“Corry” De Luxe Steel Shafted, Hick-
ory Sheath, Graded Irons, Nos. 1 to 9 35/-
“Corry” Super De Luxe Graded
Woods, with Tru-Temper Chromium-
plated Steel Shafts, inlaid Faces ..• * . 45/"
The golfer who is compelled to play the game
within the limits imposed by his or her income
is advised to see the low-priced, distinctive
“Corry Lightning'' Series.
(Carriage paid on Golf Clubs.)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket, Sydney.
MickSimmonslid.
HEADQUARTERS:
HAYMARKET.
“The Premier Sports House of Australia. ,>
SYDNEY.


KEEP IT
CUT THIS OUT
FOR SALE
Suction Gas Engines, Gas Producers, Oil Engines, Dynamos, Motors,
Alternators, Switchboards, "Wattmeters, Voltmeters, Ammeters,
House Service Meters, Switches, Fuses, Regulators, Circuit Breakers,
Time Switches, Starters, etc., all used, condition O.K.
Any reasonable offer accepted.
An unusual opportunity for a bargain!
THE SECRETARY,
ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER CO. (SCONE), LTD.,
2 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Please send details and price for
NAME .
ADDRESS
M
m
M,.
&
&
■
ê
means the end
of Health.
it!
CONSTIPATION is the beginning
of countless ills, many of them
very serious ones. You cannot
afford to ignore it.
There is a simple, safe and comfort-
able way to treat it. Make Figsen
your protector. This unusual laxative
works in the most natural manner.
Its action is gentle but thorough.
There is no purging or griping, no
troublesome after effect, no habit form-
ing worries. Figsen is an ideal laxa-
tive for all types of people. Small
children, aged persons, athletes and
average people all find it equally good
for combating disorders of the elimin-
ation system. Your chemist sells it.
FIGSEN
There is a Nyal
Family Medicine for
every ordinary ail-
ment
Sold only by
Chemists
4
□
Patents,
AN AIR BRUSH NOZZLE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No.- 7611/27 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of her rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
o
ft
A
i
and. the
engine
into life
That’s the way a Dagenite
works .... pouring out
generous power . . . .
stirring the most stubborn
engine. Fit a Dagenite to
your own car and see
how it does its work un-
falteringly, day and night
. . . . year in, year out.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD
G.P.O. BOX 71, MELBOURNE
D'A 6 E NI TE
A BATTERIES /J
enough to treat in this manner, they should
be cut ofE low down. Another method is
to apply a solution of sodium arsenite or
arsenic pentoxide, at the rate of lib. to two
gallons of water, at the period when the sap
is just completing its downward course.
(1) What are the prospects for arrowroot-
growing on a commercial scale? (2) What
is the average yield to the acre? (3) Cost
of machinery for millingf —42s2.
(1) Very poor. Arrowroot is now pro-
duced largely in excess of Australian require-
ments and its price overseas is below cost
of production. (2) Twelve tons of bulbs.
(3) Prom £lOOO to £7OOO according to the
scale of the plant.
(1) Prospects in poultry-farming for a
novice? (2) Area of land and number of
fowls required to return £2OO p.a. net? (3)
Capital required to obtain such yearly
return? (4} Cast of necessary buildings and
fencing? (5) Yearly rental of farm ( going
concern ) of above area? (6) What condi-
tions are imposed by the N.S.W. Egg-Market-
ing Board? (7) Average yearly number of
eggs per fowl of best-laying strain? —4s26.
(1) It is a business that has to be learned,
like any other, and considerable experience
and aptitude are required. (2) Four acres
and 750 layer's. (3) £l3OO should cover cost
of land, erection of buildings and stocking
up. (4) £BOO. (5) Would vary according
to locality and capital value. It would be
difficult to rent a farm without buying the
stock outright. (6) The board controls all
eggs produced in the counties of Cumberland
and Northumberland, and the shires of
Nattai and Wollondilly. All eggs must be
marketed through the board unless a “pro-
ducer agent’s” exemption is obtained to mar-
ket privately. (7) Twelve dozen would be a
fair expectation from well-bred and attended
flocks.
I recently killed a hen with a large horny
growth on one of its legs. Previously another
hen with a similar growth died. What is
such a growth due to? Does it cause death
and is it contagious? —4ssl.
Xt is a form of tumor caused by irrita-
tion, or, more often, developed after some
injury to the leg. In most cases it is benign,
nor is it contagious. Removal of the growth
may in some cases effect a cure.
I and neighbors have been losing hens
for sonic time. Symptoms: Diarrhoea with
ichite liquid stools. Comb becomes congested
and crop is loaded. Bird becomes languid
ami refuses food; appears to be running a
temperature. Death soon folloivs. Condition
appears to be an infection and not from feed-
ing. Diagnosis, treatment and means of pre-
vention? —4367.
The condition could be due to fowl tick,
although it would be unusual for ticks to be
found in your locality (Blaekheatli, N.S.W.).
Salt poisoning could also cause the symp-
toms ; so could foul water, lack of water,
and being given feed and water together
after being without same for some time.
Administer a teaspoonful of castor oil fol-
lowed by a one- or two-grain dose of salol,
this treatment to be repeated every second
day until the bird recovers. In case of tick
it is necessai’y to spray the houses with
kerosene emulsion.
(1) When did ploughs .first take the place
of the hoe for the breaking up of land in
N.S.W.? (2) When was the sickle sup-
planted by (a) the mower, (b) the binder?
—3964.
(1) The first reference is in a letter writ-
ten by Mrs. Macarthur on September 1,
1795, from her home on the Parramatta
River: “Mr. Macarthur has also set a
plough to work, the first which has been
used in the country, and it is drawn some-
times by oxen and at others by horses.” (2)
No definite information can be found as to
when the mower was first used, • but the
elevator binder with the closed back was
introduced in 1878 as a wire binder, and
in 1880 as a string binder.
(1) Number of cattle and sheep in Argen-
tina at last census and 10 years ago? (2)
Average weight of fleece per head, Australia,
Argentina and S. Africa?— 4264.
(1) Sheep: 1914. 43,225.452: 1922,
36,208,981. Cattle: 1914, 25,866,763; 1922,
37,064,850. (2) Australia 8.531 b., S. Africa
(1926) 6.761 b. No details are available for
Argentina.
White ants keep getting into my house,
which is on blocks (gidgee and boree) , about
3ft. high. Blocks are capped with galvan-
ised iron, which must be rusted through
somewhere, though I hare seen where the
ants have made over the iron too. How
can. I get rid of the ants and prevent their
reappearance ? —4495.
Paint every block with crude oil and
break all contact channels with the ground.
Baits of arsenic and lard will kill the ants.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Dimon” : Those who want to sink wells in
dry parts should look for the thorny acacia,
& hardy shrub that grows in the arid regions
of N.S.W. and Queensland. Its presence is
regarded as a sure indication of subter-
ranean water. In the worst droughts its
foliage is always fresh and green, and is
relished by horses, sheep and cattle. Inci-
dentally, it is a good hedge plant to grow
where duststorms prevail; it will stand any
amount of trimming.
“KTinnlA” ■ W l ,, amntliorprl f)"e
ia the' shed a man who returned to it
in the night with a flarillg lamp in search
0 f some article left on the board may be to
blame. Seared of the light and the shadows,
sheep will jamb into corners of pens and ends
0 f races, where should some go down smother-
ing j s BUre to follow. A car with dazzling
headlights pulling in close to a sheep-filled
s hod may have a similar effect. A shed full
of sheep should be protected at night, from
light and sound
“Beady” : Cattle and horses damage sheep
salt-troughs unless they are securely fenced.
I use a sound shade tree, where sheep camp
in daytime. Cut in about ISin. from the
ground level, driving the cut downwards and
back to a depth of about a foot (more, if
the tree is large enough), but taking care
not to weaken the tree. A sufficient number
of these trees per paddock will hold all the
salt or lick required, easily available to
sheep or large stock, weatherproof and in-
destructible,
“Goat”: Maiden ewes require special
attention at lambing time; many of them
quit their offspring. To force them to
mother the youngsters, gather ewe and lamb
up and put them in a cradle made (in anti-
cipation) out of fallen timber or hurdles
and conveniently situated about the paddock,
Three cradles per 100 ewes should be ample,
A night or day in close confinement will do
the job. These cradles cannot be too small
pi’ovided the ewe can turn round and lie
down comfortably without crowding the
lamb. Three wire-netted sheep hurdles fast-
cued together to form a triangle, or straight
bush timber so laid, are all that is required,
Always catch the ewe first and put her in
cradle; the lamb will be found strug-
ghiig ° r bleating handy to where it was born.
„ Yam : To scare crows away from the
farm > tf a P a couple and paint them white, and
when they are dry let them go. Their efforts
to filld company will send the mob scurrying
over , the horizon, and fear of the place will
remain with them a long while,
Dirnon i The trouble that most amateurs
experience in doing their bit of home solder-
SLdn thc\£t toVsoK/X
been monerlv cleaned The noinl of the
~o n (propedv a Conner bit! should he
dn ed othei wise the solder } wonT lead
AIX thfiron redffiot and briahten the four
faces ouicklv wTtli a flat file then riih
piece and next on
so lder—a small quantity placed on a piece
of tin, or on the sal-ammoniac. This will
make the iron as bright as silver, but the
whole operation must be done quickly to
prevent the copper oxidising.
“Disc Harrow”: If your fruit trees seem
to be taking too much spray, have a look
at the hose-nozzles. The holes tend to become
colarged in time, when a new nozzle is a
sound investment
“ ' “Embden” • If 'vou nronose to build nn a
small flock of geese, get a setting of eggs
from a breeder, although it is a slower
method than a purchase of adult stock. When
required for killing or sending to market,
geese should be penned in and fattened up.
Except where the market warrauts it, it is
not recommeuded that anv special fattening
be done.
“Rico”: An orcliardist at the Basin, Bays-
water (Vic.), generates his own electricity
for light and power. A small creek flows
through his property; this is dammed up
until a sufficient head of water is held
back; it is then led along a small channel
to a wheel, placed where the water can fall
straight back to the original course The
wheel can be set in motion or stopped bv an
ingenious arrangement at the house about
a quarter of a mile from the creek
: “Cockyson’s method (B.
10/6/31) of killing hawks sounds efficient,
but way kill them? If adequate shelter is
provided, losses in the poultry-yard will be
negligible. The hawk’s principal diet is
a? 1 . 0 * 0 - which have appeared in such numbers
Dus y ear > and I submit it ought to be en-
couraged to go on with the good work. Other
birds which have had a rough spin from
Rockies are white cockatoos, which eat grass-
,\ < $ p £ r f eggs j various species of parrot,
which teed mainly on insects and caterpillars
} catel pillars, by the way, have destroyed
aeveral acres of useful Mallee scrub not far
, i” °ur township) ; and cormorants, which
>e rlcnd the irrigationist by feeding on the
young yabbies that bore holes in his channels.
P _T/ ian^s the sale °f 400,000 bushels for
£70,000, Queensland Wheat Board is able
to announce that it will have no carry-
over to next season. This means that
growers will receive at least 3s. 9d. a bushel.
The Queensland consumer bears the ulti-
mate burden in a slight increase in the price
of the loaf, but Queenslanders consider that
the trifle is worth while in the end for
everyone concerned.


When whispering strains do softly steal
Across the drawing-room, I feel
That I must sing. But I cannot,
Because my voice has gone to pot;
It’s now returned from off its tour,
Restored by Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD,
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire lnsurances cffected 9 n all classes of
■ 1 Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance,
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN.
General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
ef?
■^v
6 D
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY.
■
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital ...
Reserve Fund and
Profits
Undivided
£6,858,113
4,173,156
£11,031,260
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
Our Service Department
Tliis page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man wants passage in car, Sydney to Perth ;
assist with driving. Has driven over Kalgoorlie-to-
l'erth track. Refs. —4474.
Grazier’s son and daughter want position as man-
ager and housekeeper on small sheep property in
Q’land. Life exp.—4so9.
Motor mechanic (26), wants job on station, N.S.W.
or Q’land. —4561.
Gardener, Woollahra (Sydney), exp., wants work.
—4547.
Boy, N.S.W., educated, wants position, help shop
and house, board and wages.—4s44.
Woolclasser, N.S.W., wishes to get in touch with
another who will take over sheds he is unable to do.
Refs, required.—4s9s.
Engineer (23), well educated, exp. as cook, pros-
pector, navigator, etc., wants employment of any
sort anywhere. Refs.—;4sBo.
To buy British warmer (sft. llin. man) and tan
field boots, size nine or large eight.—4s73.
To buy English sporting and humorous novel?
illustrated by John Leech and George Cruikshank.
State year of publication.—4496.
To buy Arthur Mee’s “Children’s Cyclopedia,”
bound. —4491.
M.L. farmer would like to hear from any one
who has cut ditches with explosives.—44B4.
To buy “The Record of Nicholas Freydon.”—4s2s.
Information Sought.
Is it against the rules of tennis for a
player to hit the net with either his racquet
or body after striking ? —4293.
The rule reads: “A player loses a point if
he or his racquet (in his hand or otherwise)
or anything which he wears or carries
touches the net, posts, cord or metal cable,
strap or band, or the ground within his
opponent’s court, when striking at the ball
or at any other time while the ball is in
play.”
(1) What is the chemical name of the
fluid portion of the explosive “Rack-a-rock” ?
(2) How is it manufactured and is it a
dangerous process? (3) What is a good
substitute for it, that could be got in country
towns or on the farm? —4198.
(1) Nitro-benzine, or mirbane oil. (2)
By a highly-technical process; very dan-
gerous. (3) Don’t know of any it would
be safe for a novice to experiment with.
(1) How much coarse salt is produced tn
Australia annually? (2) How much shaker
salt? (3) Quantity and value of salt
imported? (4) Is there a tariff on salt? —
4417.
(1) In 1929, 76,457 tons. South Australia
is the main source. (2) Particulars not avail-
able. (3) In 1929-30: Rock salt, 105,793 cwt.
valued at £10,937; salt and table prepara-
tions thereof, 2,807,6201 b., valued at £36,380 ;
salt cake, 11201 b., valued at £3; other salt,
129,995 cwt. valued at £29.845. (4) Yes, it
varies according to classification and country
of origin.
How to make sluice-boxes for recovering
gold from large quantities of dirt? Water
supply is from 2 in. centrifugal pump. —-4307.
Make a box of lin. timber 12ft. long, 18in.
wide and 6in. deep, arranged on supports
so as to give a slant of sin. from head to tail.
Nail riffle-bars llin. high across the inside
bottom of the box about 18in. apart. Where
there is much fine gold a little mercury is
placed behind the riffle-bars, or the tailings
are run over amalgamated copper plates.
Adjustment to obtain the most efficient
results is a matter of experience and prac-
tice.
What is the aboriginal name for Aus-
tralia? A contributor to the Adelaide
“ Advertiser ” says it was “SkirragohiMrn” .—
4147.
Dr. Herbert Basedow states that the con-
ception of a continental Australia is not
often found among tribal legends. The
Aluridja tribe refer to the land (i.e., the
mainland) as “Mannda” and the ocean as
“Ulumba.” The word suggested in the
“Advertiser” is not aboriginal; abo. dialects
do not contain such sibilants and aspirates.
(1) How long would I have to study struc-
tural engineering to secure a situation? (2)
Can I study it successfully by correspon-
dence? (3) What correspondence college
would coach me? (4) How long would I
have to study to become a shire engineer?
3867.
(1) Depending upon the standard attained
at school, four to six years. (2) Yes, in
conjunction with practical experience gained
with a firm of structural engineers. Such
positions as draughtsman or clerk of works
would be suitable. (3) International Cor-
respondence Schools, 140 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney. (4) About the same as for struc-
tural engineering. E. S. Rowe, 8.E., shire
engineer at Marrickville, conducts a corres-
pondence course, and there is a course at
Sydney Tech. College.
It is generally held that when the propor-
tion of forest in any country falls below
0.86 acres per head of the population, that
country will be obliged to import timber.
Australia has 4.01 acres of forest per head
of population, yet the excess of imports of
timber over exports amounts to 28,000,000
cubic feet. What's the reason? —4507.
The bulk of Australia’s forest area of
24,500,000 acres consists of cut-over forests
swept by fire at frequent intervals. The
area of really productive forests has not been
computed. Secondly, Australia grows few
softwoods, and must import the bulk of its
requirements in this respect.
(1) How to clean motor-cycle chains on
the sprockets? (2) How to clean a chain
removed from the machine? —4508.
(1) Run the engine with the machine on
the stand; place a brush dipped in paraffin
through a hole in the centre of a piece of
cardboard (as a guard against splashes) and
hold it against the lower run of the chain.
After this scrubbing stop the engine, and
brush the chain with engine oil or rub
grease or graphite into it. (2) Soak in
paraffin, benzol or petrol till clean; then
dry and. place in a bath of lubricant heated
to melting point and allow the chain to
remain in the lubricant until cool.
Sixpence a week is deducted from my pay
( Q. ) for unemployed insurance, as well as
3d. in the £ for unemployed relief. I earn
£0 a week, and were I unemployed to-morrow
I should not be allowed sustenance pay-
ments, as by regulation the Government will
not pay sustenance to anyone who has
received over £220 a year. Can this 6 d. a
week be legally deducted by my employer? —
4169.
The regulation in effect means that any
claim is to be deferred for a period deter-
mined by the effluxion of time necessary to
bring the earnings of the unemployed worker
during the preceding 12 months down to
£220. The deduction of contributions from
the wages or salaries of contributors is legal.
(1) What is the definition of professional-
ism in golf? (2) Would a person accepting
lessons from a professional as a prize be
breaking the amateur rule? —4433.
(1) Anyone who takes payment for playing
or teaching golf; is employed in connection
with making and maintaining greens, fair-
ways, etc.; makes or proffers for sale golfing
material; or, being over the age of 18, plies
for hire as a caddy. (2) No, provided the
prize was a bona fide one put up by a club
for its members.
Stranded on a roadway during the recent
Lachlan floods was a snake about three feet
lo\ng, the color of a boiled lobster, head and
all, save the belly, which was a light pink.
What sort of snake was it? —4400.
Probably a reddish variety of the copper-
snake, Pseudechis cupreus. The extra reddish
tint was very likely caused through immer-
sion.
How to restore cutting power of rusty,
dirty and worn files? —4141.
Soak in kerosene or petrol for a few hours;
then brush with a carding file.
Would it be possible to obtain an electric
immersion heater operated off 6-volt accumu-
lators which would boil a half-pint of water
in a few minutes?- —4459.
A heater of this description would require
a current of about 80 amps, at 6 volts, equi-
valent to 480 watts. Such a current could
only be delivered by an accumulator of very
large capacity, and probably both this and
the immersion coil would have to be specially
made. Accumulator charging costs would
be very high.
(1) How to exterminate borers in antique
mahogany, rosewood and cedar furniture?
(2) How long does the borer live? (3) Can
furniture be treated to prevent the borer
from attacking? (4) Is fumigation a means
of extermination?— 43lo.
(1) Inject with a syringe a mixture of
one part of creosote wood-preserving oil
and five parts kerosene. (2) Approximately
12 months, but once established fresh genera-
tions may be continually developed until the
wood is destroyed. (3) Wood soaked in
sodium arsenite or mercuric chloride would
be immune to the extent of the penetration
of the poison, normally in cabinet woods
about Jin. Provided the treated surface is
not cut to expose untreated wood there
should be no risk of infestation. (4) Fumi-
gation satisfactory only if the wood is badly
riddled so that the fumigant can readily
penetrate. Where the infestation is slight
the larvae, which are well below the surface,
may escape. A pamphlet giving detailed
information can be had from the Technolo-
gical Museum, Sydney ; Is. 2d., post free.
What is post-impressionism in painting?
—4552.
The post-impressionists were a school of
painters known as the Pont Avon School,
founded by Paul Gaugin, the first conscious
reactionary against the impressionists.
Gaugin expressed his creed by saying, “If
I wish to express green, a metre of green is
greener than a centimetre.” This movement
in art rebelled against the idda of painting
only \yhat one actually sees, and endeavored
to draw space rather than outline, and to
suppress local color so that color could be
used to reinforce the sense of space and
distance.
Is it permissible to keep kookaburras in
captivity in N.B.W.? —4420.
No. Kookaburras are absolutely protected.
Any person who has a protected bird in
his possession is liable to a penalty of £5.
What is the function of the high-fre-
quency amplifier, detector and low-frequency
amplifier in a wireless receiver? —4568.
When the received signals are very weak
it is desirable to amplify them before they
are detected. This is performed by the high-
frequency amplifier, which operates on a
frequency equal to that of the transmitter.
The function of the detector is to render
these signals audible in the form of low-
frequency oscillations. As the volume from
the detector is insufficient to operate a loud-
speaker the low-frequency oscillations are
amplified, this time in the low-frequency
amplifier.
(1) Bow is bakelite powder moulded?
(2) Is the equipment complicated? (3)
Approximate cost per pound of powder? (4)
Cost of finished article per pound? (5)
Books on the subject? —42B6.
(1) The powder is placed in a mould and
subjected to considerable heat and pressure.
The mould is then cooled by water, after
which the piece is ejected. (2) Yes. (3)
About 2s. (4) Bakelite sheet, 3-16 in. thick,
7s. lid; cheaper quality, about 4s. Sd. (5)
“Bakelite Moulding,” obtainable free on pay-
ment of postage from O. H. O'Brien, 37
Pitt-street, Sydney.
I have a three-valve short-wave receiver
employing plug-in coils mounted on valve
bases. Could this circuit be adapted for the
reception of ordinary broadcast programmes
(300-450 melr&s) ? The circuit now employed
consists of a detector followed by two low-
frequency stages. —4s6o.
This can easily be done if a suitable coil
is made. For the grid coil wind 90 turns of
No. 28s. w.g. enamel wire on a former similar
to the one employed, but having a winding
length of 3Jin., and bring out a tapping at
30 turns from the earth end for the aerial
connection. At Jin. from the end of this
coil wind the reaction coil of 60 turns of
the same gauge wire. The exact number
of turns on the grid coil will depend upon
the value of the tuning condenser and must
be found by experiment. Figures given are
correct for ,00025m.f. capacity.
(1) Dimension of Sydney Harbor bridge?
(2) Tons of steel used in construction? (8)
Humber of rivets? (4) Dimensions of
pylons? (5) Tons of concrete used? (6)
Where did the granite for the facing come
from? (7) Humber of rail lines and size of
roadways and footpaths? . (8) Time taken
to build (a) arch , (b) approaches? (9)
Humber of workmen employed? (10)
Weight and lifting, power of creeper cranes?
(11) Cost of building complete? (12) Dates
when begun and when likely to be in use
(a) for road and foot traffic, (b) for train
service ? —4306.
_ (1) Main span, 1650 ft. long, 98ft. 6in.
wide between trusses, 350 ft. rise to centre
of lower chord. Depth of truss, at crown,
60ft.; at end posts, 187 ft. 9in. Approach
spans vary from 161 ft. 11 Jin. to 238 ft.
long, 35ft. deep. Width of deck on approach
spans. 135 ft.; on main span, 160 ft. (2)
50,300. (3) Approximately 5,000,000. (4)
285 ft. high, 224 ft. by 160 ft. at base. (5)
235,000. (6) Moruya (N.S.W.). (7) Four
railway tracks, central roadway 57ft. wide,
two footways each 10ft. wide. (8) Arch,
2J years; approach spans, 34 years. (9)
1100. (10) Weight, 605 tons; lifting capa-
city, 122 tons. (11) Tender price,
£4,217,721, subject to additions for increase
of wages granted by awards. (12) Com-
menced November, 1924; official opening
about March. 1932.
Does Anybody Know?
How to stop a dog scratching holes in
the lawn and garden?—447s.
Brief Answers.
N.E.M.: Try Efftee Films, Harwood
Talkies, or Aus. Sound Films—all Melbourne....
P.H.: Angus and Robertson, Sydney; Robertson and
Mullens, Melbourne... .W.E.E.: Cement mortar will
continue to crumble under the action of heat. Set
the bricks in fireclay... .8.C.: Electrolytic Refining
Co., 25 O’Connell-street, Sydney.... W.W.: 1.C.5.,
140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney... .W.R.G.: Write to the
Officer-in-Charge, Land Settlement Inquiry Branch,
Lands Department, Brisbane, for particulars respect-
ing land to be thrown open in the Mareeba district.
. ...J.N.A.: (1) None in Australia or M.L. (2)
Last edition was published in 1929 ; no further
edition contemplated. (3) Not at present. (4)
N0....D.J.: Sierra Leone, 85,163 ; 1161 Europeans.
... .A.G.S.W.: The Brazilian 500-reis note you have
is worth about 2s. These notes are now being
withdrawn and will shortly be replaced by silver
currency... .F.P.: Major C. H. Douglas has written
“Economic Democracy” (65.), “Credit Power and
Democracy” (7s. 6d.), “The Control and Distribution
of Production” (7s. 6d.), and “Social Credit” (7s.
6d.), obtainable from Credit Research Library, 70
High Holborn, London, W.C.I. .. .H.S.D.: (1) Angus
and Robertson, Sydney. (2) Hutchinson and Co., 33
Paternoster-row, E.C.4; Cassell and Co., La Belle
Sauvage, Ludgate Hill, E.C.4; Herbert Jenkins, 3
York-street, St. James’s, S.W.l —all London
Percy B.: This department’s job is to give infor-
mation... .J.S.C.: (1) Your windmill will do the
work. Fit a 3in. dry-plunger pump and 34in. piping.
(2) Cement should be applied to the bottom and
sides of a tank by firstly brushing the material,
composed of two bags of sand to one of cement, on
to the walls and bottom. When dry, apply cement
plaster—three bags of sand to one of cement. Build
a form inside the tank and pour cement between
this and the wa11... .D.Ii.M.: “A. Mus. A,,” Associ-
ate Aust. Music Examinations Board; “A.T.C.L.,”
Associate Trinity College of Music, London. The
difference in requirements is negligible, but the
London diploma (which is obtainable here) carries
weight outside Australia... .J.S.S.: (1) There are
many patents on Diesel engines of injection and
other types. Cannot advise as to patentability,
which is a matter for expert opinion. Send details
of your design to a patent attorney and ask him
to search and report. (2) Impossible to say....
J.H.D.: The chairman, not being a delegate, is not
entitled to a vote as such; he is limited to a casting
vote... .R.T.Q.: Unless you are the executor or
administrator of the estate you have no power
to deal with it. If you are, you may administer it
without the assistance of solicitors if you are cap-
able of doing so. You are answerable to bene-
ficiaries. .. .M. 8.: No commercial value... .W.T.:
Chief Librarian, Public Library, Melbourne, recently
issued a list of duplicate Australasian tokens....
A.: The Act applies to all “leases of land contain-
ing a purchasing clause” in force at the commence-
ment of the Act (Dec. 19, 1930), but not to a lease
containing an optional or compulsory purchasing
clause, unless the Minister is satisfied in the case
of the option that the lessee has no bona-fide
intention of exercising it....V.C.: The value of the
English half-farthing, if in mint condition, is one
shilling. Send rubbings and particulars of other
coins... .G.N.G.: The use of a net for the
capture of freshwater fish in Queensland waters is
prohibited. The only authorised means by which
such fish may be taken is a hand-line with not
more than two h00k5.... J. 0.8.: Can’t determine
value without knowing exact title and date of
publication T.P.K.: From the Commonwealth
Treasury Branch Office, 3 Martin-place, Sydney, ss.
9d P. 8.: lllalangi, “camp on a hill”; Attunga,
“a high place”; Warrawong, “hillside”
R.P.: Apply to Alfred Holts and Co., Liverpool;
White Star Line, Liverpool; P. and O. Branch
Service, London. It is only in the case of some
unforeseen circumstance that a vacancy occurs at
an Australian port. Seagoing experience would be
an important factor... .A.T.W.: A standard billiard
table is 12ft. by 6ft. The red spot is 12fin. from
the face of the cushion and the middle pockets
exactly midway of the length of table. The baulk
line is 29in. from end of table, the base of the
semi-circle being 26in H.C.: Rabbits are not
nearly so numerous in W.A. as they are in the
Eastern States. They are thickest in the wheat areas
eastward of the inner fence. No rabbits are exported
from W.A.; all those trapped for market are sold
locally. Price in Perth is about Is. per pair....
F.P.G.: The quotation is from Tennyson’s “In
Memoriam.” The poet is dealing with Man—
Who trusted God was love indeed,
And love Creation’s final plan,
Though Nature, red in tooth and claw
With ravine, shriek’d against his creed.
. ...K.M.A.: (1) Write Agriculture Department,
Melbourne, for list of publications. (2) May some
day, but certainly not just now. (3) A copy has
been posted J.C.: Would suggest the Whitsunday
Group off Mackay (Q.), or the Capricornian Group,
off Gladstone (Q.). The fishing is good and the
living expenses not high. .. .P.8.U.: Try Swains,
123 Pitt-street; or “Art in Australia,” Kyle House,
Macquarie-place—both Sydney... .J.D.: (1) The
Dorman, Long bridge tender was accepted on March
24, 1924. (2) The Fuller Government was in office
from April 13, 1922, to June 17, 1925 J.R.F.:
(1) Yes, provided the skins are accompanied by
police declaration. (2) 2s. 6d. to 3s. each. (3)
Five or six dozen. (4) Any reliable furrier... .
M.M.8.: (1) The owner of the tree. (2) You could
sue for any damage done. (3) He, with permission
to enter on your premises, should do so. (4) Usually
provided for in the lease, if any, imposing the duty
on the tenant; otherwise it is the landlord’s concern.
... .W.M.8.: Dental expenses are not allowable
deductions for N.S.W. State income-tax purposes if
the taxable income exceeds £400.... (Many others
mailed.)


CATTLE CAMP
ē
By J. J. HARDIE
Synopsis : Margaret Kennedy, on her
way to Corella station, in North
Queensland, whither she has been in-
vited by Tom Donaldson, father of
her school friend, is rescued from a
seemingly inevitable coach crash by
Ken Craig, who, riding out of the
bush, shoots the leaders of the bolting
horses. Margaret, who is dressed like
a boy, tries to help him cut the others
loose, but the strain is too much, and
she falls tinconscious. Craig, who
had mistaken her for what she looked
like and used language accordingly, is
more embarrassed than ever tohen he
discovers his mistake. They go on
together to the station, where Donald-
son is pleased to have her as company
for his daughter, Peggy. Margaret
falls under the spell of Craig's roman-
tic personality, though she resents the
fact that he is repeatedly doing
things that appear to her to put her
in his debt. The latest of these is
letting her take his favorite pony,
Dawn, without protest. He goes away
to help a queer character, Larry
Nolan, with his horses, and before lie
returns to Corella Larry gives him a
magnificent black, which he calls
Eaglehawk, and the popular opinion
regarding which is that Larry must
have pinched it as a foal, Ken takes
Eaglehawk with him when he goes out
to take charge of the work at Cattle
Camp, where, some time later, Donald-
son and the girls unexpectedly arrive.
By the time they depart Ken, trying
to beat his growing feelings for Mar-
garet, has returned to the old reclusive
ways that her coming had disturbed,
Soon after he is badly injured in
saving one of his men from being
gored by a bull, and is brought in to
the homestead, where Margaret nurses
him, and rejects a somewhat offhand
proposal.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE hot, drowsy afternoon was drawing
to a close, and Margaret stirred list-
lessly under the mosquito-net. The
flies alone of all creatures seemed to
possess energy, and they had enough
to spare. Some vague movement roused
her from her ; lethargy and caused her
to rise cautiously on one arm and
peer out through the dusty wreck of
Peggy’s garden. Yes! There it was
again! Slipping cautiously round a bush
came a slim, brown figure—Jerry’s gin!
What was bringing her in? She recalled
Ken’s taunt —“the curiosity of the sex.” But
there was an earnestness in the gin’s steady
purpose that belied mere curiosity. Mar-
garet glanced at the sharp, pointed yam-
stick in the gin’s hand, and wondered if
Ken were conscious that the gin was stalk-
ing him.
She glanced idly through the other door
towards her patient, and in an instant the
smile left her face and her heart froze
with horror.
On the bed, over the helpless limbs, were
draped the hideous, glistening coils of a
snake.
The devilish head swayed ominously, the
forked tongue flicking out and in as the
head moved slowly from side to side watch-
ing the sleeping man, waiting for the
slightest movement on his part as an excuse
to strike with the deadly fangs.
Blindly she fumbled to free herself from
the voluminous entangling folds of the net,
fearing to make a sound lest she disturb
the sleeper.
What could she do? Her brain felt numb.
A board creaked as she gained the floor,
and at the same moment a thought flashed
across her mind. The gun in the office!
Could she get it in time? Moving quickly
across the room she prayed that she would
not be too late.
The gun was there! She snapped open
the breech —empty! Where were the cart-
ridges? Feverishly she clutched at a box
on the shelf, tore off the flimsy lid and
with a sob of thankfulness clutched a hand-
ful of shells.
She reached the verandah to see a dark
form slip in ahead. The gin! She had
forgotten her!
Swiftly Margaret 'stole forward, then
paused, as the thin figure straightened. The
polished yamstick rose, and a thin, sibilant
noise came from the gin’s lips. The snake
turned to face the new distraction; the neck
flattened out, frilling with venomous hate,
and the petrified girl thought she had never
seen anything so devilishly malevolent.
Still the mysterious shrilling persisted
The shining stick waved and rose, and with
it rose the swaying, fiendish head, till a
third of its length stood rigid over the
loathsome coils. Then, when Margaret s
heart had almost stopped beating with sus-
pense, there was a flash—too quick to fol-
low. Thud! The white girl rushed forward
with gun raised, to see the gin viciously
beating the darting head to a pulp on the
verandah floor. . . „
Margaret leaned back against the wall,
weak and faint, the gun sliding from her
nerveless hand. .
The head on the pillow lifted towards her.
With a sob she moved swiftly to the bed-
side, hand outstretched.
“Margaret!”
“Oh, Ken! Ken!”
The startled gin stared wide-eyed. The
man’s face was buried in the wealth of
rippling brown hair, and his sound arm
tightened round the girl’s heaving shoulders.
A wondering smile dawned on the dark
features, spread, broadened to a shameless
grin.
She bent quickly, picked up the convul-
sively writhing coils, and slid noiselessly
back to the scrub.
Slowly the dark head rose from the pillow
to meet the ardent gaze of the grey eyes.
A flush mounted to her cheeks.
“Don’t! Please, Ken!”
Concern showed on the man’s face at the
distress in her tone.
“What’s wrong, Margaret?”
“Oh, I’m mad! Mad!” She buried her
face in the pillow.
“Tell me, Margaret! Are you—sorry?”
“Yes! No!” Her head rose wildly.
“Don’t, dear. I can’t explain—but w T e must
forget this, we must!”
The man’s face grew set, and the lines of
the mouth were tight. He spoke slowly,
as if each word were an effort.
“You really mean that?”
The averted head nodded, then turned
slowly to gaze with pity and concern on
the grave features. Quietly she rose. Her
slim hand rested on the man’s tense arm.
“Ken! I’m sorry!”
The grim face turned and their eyes met.
The man’s face had assumed its old, expres-
sionless mask, and her heart contracted.
“Sorry! It was my fault!”
“Listen to me!” Her voice was fierce.
“It was my fault! Ken, did it never occur
to you that—that I might have a past?”
The hard lines faded at the pain in her
voice. Across his mind flashed the picture
of the dejected, listless girl of the clatter-
ing buckboard, back in the ranges, at their
first meeting.
“Then you really meant it?” He could
not disguise the hope in his voice.
“Don’t ask me, Ken! L£t’s forget this
—madness! I want to keep you as a
friend—my very, very best friend. Will
you?”
Slowly his big hand closed over the slim
one and tightened as their eyes met and
held.
“I’ll try, Margaret. But I won’t give up
hope.”
Peggy, strolling on ahead of her father,
threw a lazy glance at the quiet form of the
patient. The casual look turned to one of
deep concern and she hurried to the bedside.
“What’s up, Ken? Not feeling so well?”
“No! I’m all right, thanks.”
“What the hell”—— boomed a deep voice,
and the girl turned her head to see her
father pick up the gun he had stumbled
over and jerk open the breech.
“She’s loaded, too! Who left this lying
about here, Ken?” His keen eyes fell on
the bloodstains on the floor and he looked
quickly about.
“It’s all right!” Ken’s voice was low, and
the girl eyed him critically. “There was a
tiger-snake waltzing round here. Margaret
got the gun, but Mairinjo got in ahead of
her.”
“Where’s the snake?”
“Umm—must be cooked by now!”
Peggy moved away in search of Margaret
for further details, but the big man walked
quickly to the bedside and paused a moment
before he spoke slowly:
“Where was it?”
“Coiled up on my legs!” Ken’s voice
was equally low.
“Were you asleep?”
“Woke up to find it there. Wasn’t game
to ring, so waited till the gin—and Mar-
garet—turned up.”
“Long to wait?”
“Seemed a hell of a time!”
The big man nodded as he turned slowly
away. “Big feller?”
“Close on five foot. Tiger-snake!”
“I’ll camp alongside you to-night!”
“No, don’t worry! Ask Alan to send up
my gun; I’ll be right. I can hear you
snoring at the other end of the house as
it is.”
Donaldson threw back his head and
laughed heartily. “All right! If that’s how
you feel about it!”
CHAPTER XV.
The rain had come—not the “Big Wet,”
but good storms that swept down on the
parched earth and closed the gaping fissures
for a while.
Margaret was amazed at the rapid growth
of vegetation that followed. One morning
the bare ground showed a vague suspicion
of green if one bent low and looked along
the surface; next day it was green—
decidedly, green. A carpet of luscious herb-
age had covered the earth and you could
almost see it grow.
But after the rain the already innumer-
able pests multiplied to distraction point.
Snakes abounded, scorpions, centipedes, and
all manner of crawling things appeared from
nowhere. Margaret learned to turn her
shoes upside down and shake them before
slipping her feet into them. By day the
flies drove man and beast frantic —it was
impossible to tell whether the horseman in
front was wearing a black or a white shirt,
because of the thousands of flies settled on
his back. Minute grey sandflies made then-
appearance; a brush of the hand under the
hat brim killed hundreds, but merely served
to make room for succeeding thousands. By
night the flies and sandflies were supplanted
by clouds of keening mosquitoes that no
net could keep out.
From the pools below the dam came the
song of the bullfrogs, a deep bass —“Quart-
pot, Quarrrt-pot.” Then baritone and tenor
took up the theme as a duet, but scarcely
had they got going before the entire chorus
swept on them, snatched up the theme, and
overwhelmed the senses with the full
orchestra, rising and falling, in perfect time
and harmony as at the baton of some un-
seen conductor.
Margaret, listless on the ' verandah,
coughed across the pungent cowdung smoke
at Peggy, and wondered which was worse,
the insects or the smoke.
Both were quiet. Peggy was apathetic,
dimly fatalistic. She hated the steamy heat
and the accompanying pests, but realised
that they were part of the routine, and
worry would not better conditions. Mar-
garet was recalling snatches of their conver-
sation a few nights before. Peggy had
started it—holding her gaze frankly, under
the puzzled frown.
“What about Ken, Margaret? Isn’t he
getting rather fond of you?”
Her own face was troubled as she replied
after a. pause: “I’m afraid so, Peg!”
The plump little face regarded the down-
cast head a moment; then she moved
quickly across and drew the girl to her. “I’m
sorry, darling, but —but is it fair to Ken?”
The dark head moved sadly on her
shoulder. “I’ll have to go back, Pegs. It’s
the only thing to do. I don’t want to leave
you, and I hate the thought of—of down
there—but”—— •
The soft arm tightened round her. “I
know, darling, but don’t go yet. I’ve been
dreading the thought of your leaving, know-
ing that some day you must; but stay just
a little longer. Ken won’t be here much—
but don’t you think it would be better to
tell him?”
“I’ve tried to —but.... Oh, it’s hard!”
The wide blue eyes stared over the
tumbled dark head as Peggy realised that
her fears were only too well founded.
The subject had been dropped, and both
tacitly avoided further reference. to it, but
it still occupied Margaret’s thoughts to the
exclusion of everything else. It was not
only Ken who cared!
She was trying hard to make up her mind
to do the one thing in the world she wanted
to do least.
To-night she would see him again. An
important letter in the last mail had been
the cause of numerous conclaves between
the manager, the old head-stockman and
Mr. Heath; and, although the girls knew
nothing of the actual contents of the letter,
they had gathered that something unusually
important was in the wind. Ken had been
summoned from Cattle Camp. The rain
and the ensuing steamy heat meant riding
in the early dawn and late at night, and
he had not been near the homestead since
Christmas.
“Sounds like them coming now!” Peggy’s
voice was languid and flat.
Margaret glanced round as the sound of
footsteps reverberated along the verandah.
Someone was fiddling with a hurricane
lamp; the squeak of the lever and the sound
of someone blowing out the light came
faintly to her ears.
“Hello, everybody. Nice warm night to
sit round a fire! Who are you offering up
the incense to?”
“Hello, Uncle Alan! Good evening, Mr.
Heath! Don’t say it’s hot, or I’ll hit some-
body!”
Margaret greeted the two men quietly,
her ears listening for the sound of approach-
ing footsteps, her heart beating wildly as
she studiously appeared to be interested
wholly in the men in front of her.
“Hello, Margaret!” She turned slowly,
restraining her eagerness by sheer will-
power. “How’s my nurse?”
“Hello, Ken!” She smiled into the grey
eyes looking happily down into hers. “How
is the patient?”
“Good! I have been behaving. When
Eaglehawk came back I told him to go
easy, and he walked away with me like a
lady’s hack.”
“Oh, how is he? Did you bring him in?”
She half rose from the chair in her eagerness
He laughed down at the girl. “Yes! He’s
in the little paddock to-night. He’s a
picture, Margaret! Coming to see him in
the morning?”
“You bet I’m coming!”
“Ken, when you’ve finished holding hands,
perhaps you’ll realise I’ve been speaking to
you for the last five minutes'.” Peggy’s
voice ended in a laugh.
Ken flushed guiltily and dropped the
slim hand. “Sorry!” he stammered. “Hot
to-night!”
“If you say that again I’ll slay you!”
“Where’s your dad?”' Alan was enjoying
the situation hugely, but recollected the
business in hand, and Ken, unwilling to
leave, was yet grateful.
“Don’t talk all night—we want to share
our mosquitoes with you.”
“All right, Peggy! We’ll be back!”
Donaldson faced the three men as they
settled in their chairs and plunged straight
into business.
“Ken, I’ll tell you the business from the
the start—the others know already. There’s
a man on his way up here to inspect
Corella —a Mr. Borthwick. Don’t know
much about him.” He waved a sheet ol
paper at the mosquitoes. “This letter’s
from the general manager, and all he says
is that Mr Borthwick is to be well treated
and given access to all books, and shown
everything he wants to see.”
“Funny time of the year to inspect a
place! **
“I know that—can’t understand it. If
the company was trying to sell Corellait
ought to know enough to hold a possible
buyer off till we have more grass and the
cattle look better. However, he’s coming.
I want you and Alan to help Mr. Heath do
a bit of stocktaking. I’m bringing him down
to Cattle Camp next week and I want you
to have things ready!”
“Right!” Ken could not see why the
coming of Mr. Borthwick should cause so
much fuss, but they plunged into details
and were still deep in documents when
Peggy and Margaret appeared with a tray
of clinking glasses.
“We got tired waiting for you. bhe
spoke in tones of deep disgust. “Margaret
and I are off to bed, so have a drink while
it’s reasonably cool.”
Mr. Borthwick’s arrival at Corella was a
memorable occasion. Motor-cars were still
rare in that far-flung edge of Nowhere, and
the dark blue car, the fussy, perspiring
chauffeur and Mr. Borthwick were equally
incongruous against the sun-bleached back-
ground.
At the homestead he was received with
the open-handed cordiality of the West.
Mr. Borthwick took that for granted and
was full of complaints.
Whatever Tom Donaldson thought of his
guest he kept to himself, but Peggy voiced
her feelings with a warmth that was unusual.
Mr. Borthwick was short, stout and fifty.
His clipped moustache bristled aggressively
and his hard blue eyes bored with a ruth-
less “No mercy!” in their gaze. His manner
was abrupt and he radiated a feeling of
“Mind your own business and answer my
questions” that rubbed the naturally
courteous cattlemen the wrong way.
Although the owner of several sheep-
stations, Mr. Borthwick was not of the
Bush, nor of its people. He had “City”
and “Hard Business” written all over him.
His methods were in direct contrast to
those of the men he found himself in con-
tact with, and their apparent casualness
exasperated him beyond measure. To Mr.
Borthwick time was denoted with a £
sign. He represented Business, and these
people would have to get a move on. He
was decidedly not in this God-forsaken,
pest-ridden country for the good of his
health.
An hour after his arrival, in the heat oi
a steamy afternoon, he bustled, perspiring,
into Mr. Heath’s office, and kept the book-
keeper busy passing ledgers or answering
the curt questions shot at him. As a result
of that visit he lost a lot of perspiration,
but seemed to gain more in satisfaction,
and Mr. Heath basked in his good opinion.
Next day they sallied forth by car. As
a means of transit, horses were too slow
for Mr. Borthwick. In addition, his figure
appeared to greater advantage out of a
saddle.
The country had responded wonderfully
to the rain—a green tinge showed through
the billowing Mitchell grass. As they neared
the watercourses where the country had
been eaten bare, a green carpet of herbage
covered the earth, and green shoots sprang
from the woody stumps of eaten-off grass-
clumps. The cattle were picking up, and
had lost the listlessness forced on them
by lack of water and by diy feed.
Until they came near the Coolibar Hole,
where Alan Gordon was to meet them,
Mr. Borthwick’s sole view of the cattle
was a distant series of specks fading over
the horizon. He plied Tom Donaldson with
questions. Mr. Borthwick was a sheepman
—he admitted it—but his questions wrnre
shrewd, and the big, bluff cattleman won-
dered quietly to himself where this new-
comer gained certain information which
assuredly did not appear on the station
books.
The car was left with the chauffeur wdnle
Donaldson and Mr. Borthwick proceeded on
the horses sent for them to inspect the big
mob of cattle Alan Gordon had mustered to
Coolibar. Again the stout man, dismounting
awkwardly, with patent relief, was evidently
pleased at what he had seen, but his ques-
tioning never ceased, although his brusque
manner may not have elicited the infor-
mation that another man might have
obtained.
As Dusty Rhodes expressed it tersely
“All the time you’re talking his eyes n
saying ‘You’re a liar!’—so I didn’t tell hut
no more.”
Ken rode into Cattle Camp after a shod
tour up the Barker, to find Mr. Borthwick


ĕ
w
ẁ
FORD CARS
TRUCKS AND
TRACTORS ARE
BRITISH EMPIRE
PRODUCTS
THE New Enclosed Cab, now available for all Ford Truck models
at slight additional cost, adds the comfort of a sedan car to those
features which have proved the Ford Truck to be the most
economical and efficient haulage unit in its price class or capacity
field .... low price, low depreciation, low petrol and oil consumption,
long life, sturdy strength, simplicity of operation, low maintenance costs
and splendid service facilities everywhere your haulage units travel.
The 30 cwt. Ford Truck, with its torque-tube drive and heavy
radius rod construction, its four-cylinder 40-horsepower motor, its
power and dependability for heavy work, its unusual range of
standard body types, has justly earned the praise which comes
wholeheartedly from one end of Australia to the other. It is,
indeed, Value far above the Price.
ẃ
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD
ẅ
already there, with Mr. Donaldson and
Heath in attendance. Eaglehawk snorted
with distrust and sidled away from the
car, round which the boys were grouped in
an awe-struck circle of investigation. When
one bold spirit pinched the bulb of the
horn, with one accord the knot dissolved
like magic. The panic-stricken blacks
headed at top speed for the horizon. Big-
foot Alick’s definition was: “Him buggy
belong debbil-debbil. No more horse longa
him—sing out all-same calf!”
Mr. Borthwick peered in astonishment
irom the shady verandah at the beautiful
black horse; then, as if he could not believe
his eyes, he pressed forward to where Ken
had slipped out of the saddle and was
talking with Donaldson. The indignant
snort of his horse made Ken turn round
quickly. “Look out, there!” he called
sharply, leading Eaglehawk forward a shade.
Mr. Borthwick looked up with a frown—
he was not used to being addressed in that
tone.
Donaldson came forward. “This is Ken
Craig, Mr. Borthwick—he’s head-stockman
of this camp.”
Mr. Borthwick acknowledged Ken’s
greeting with a curt nod and went on with
his scrutiny of the horse. Ken’s eyes nar-
rowed at the man’s incivility. He looked
coolly at the short figure in the grey
tailored suit; then, catching a look from
Donaldson, nodded quietly and, turning his
back, proceeded to unsaddle.
The hard blue eyes gleamed avariciously.
“Mr. Donaldson!”
“Yes?” The manager’s easy tone was in
sharp contrast.
“That horse belong to the station?”
“No. He belongs to Ken.”
“What!” The idea of such a horse be-
longing to a mere head-stockman earning a
few pounds per week took some time to
assimilate.
“I say!” He called peremptorily.
The man, lifting off the big saddle, paid
no attention, and the little man fumed.
“Ken!” At Donaldson’s quiet call the
man slipped the saddle over a limb and
turned, the reins in the crook of his arm.
He glanced at the manager, then at the
little bristling man pushing forward.
Don t come too close, Mr. Borthwick,”
he warned in even tones. “This horse
isn’t used to strangers.”
The little man paused, glaring belliger-
ently.
“Um. Fine horse you have there, Mr.
—er?”
“Craig.”
“Yes! Craig—that’s right! How old
is he?”
“Just gone five!”
“Is he fast?”
“He’s good after cattle.”
“But—but I mean, what is he like on
the track?”
“He has never been raced.”
“Never been raced!” The man was
openly incredulous, but caution returned.
“Now, look here, Mr.—er?”
“Craig.”
“Mr. Craig. I’ll make you a fair offer. I
like the look of that horse, but I don’t
like buying a pig in a poke. However, I’ll
take a chance. Now, how much will you
take for him?”
The horseman had gradually stiffened,
and there was a steely glint in the grey eyes.
He looked the little man up and down with
an impersonal, level gaze, then spoke quietly
but decisively.
“This horse is not for sale, Mr. Borth-
wick.”
“Nonsense, man, you’re mad! I’ll give
you a hundred pounds for him.”
The inscrutable eyes dwelt on him for a
moment, then the voice drawled:
“Just as safe to offer a thousand!”
Mr. Borthwick gasped. Was the man in
earnest or was he bluffing for a fancy
price ?
“Well, five hundred, then? Just think
what it will mean to you.”
The stout figure fairly bristled. He felt he
had already gone further than caution war-
ranted, but the young man’s cool refusal
nettled him.
Ken looked down at him through nar-
rowed eyes, and his slow drawl held finality
in its tones:
“Mr. Borthwick, this horse is not for
sale!”
Ken turned away with a swift snap of the
jaw, and strode towards the horse-yard with
the big horse moving easily alongside. As
.he slipped off the bridle the man ran his
fingers through the splendid mane. “Boy,
next time I’ll let you paste him! He may
have a lot of money, but not enough!”
Mr. Borthwick, perspiring profusely, one
hand waving jerkily and incessantly at the
flies in front of his face, looked quickly
around before entering the office. It was
early afternoon, and the only visible sign
of life was the cloud of snowy corellas
wheeling in the blinding sunshine over the
dam. Apparently satisfied, he stepped
quickly into the stuffy, hot room, the wire
d®or slamming behind him. The book-
keeper rose to meet him.
Borthwick dropped heavily into a chair
and mopped his brow, the other man eyeing
him somewhat nervously.
“Blast the heat! Damn and blast the
flies!” He turned abruptly and faced the
sallow features across the table.
“Well, Heath!” His tone was crisp and
businesslike. “I’ve seen all I want to see.
I’ll be leaving here in the morning—thank
God!”
The book-keeper glanced quickly round,
and his voice was low.
“Did you—er—find everything you ex-
pected, Mr. Borthwick?”
A pudgy hand waved non-committally.
“Oh, yes. Your reports were fairly to the
point. But about this northern block—
where’s that map?”
The book-keeper opened a long drawer
and unrolled a large sheet or! the table.
The little man pounced on it, running his
eyes from spot to spot, nodding to the
accompaniment of his thoughts. A stumpy
forefinger indicated a wide area covering
the top portion of the sheet.
“And they keep all that as relief
country—all these bores lying idle—practi-
cally virgin countiy—unstocked for years!”
The pale eyes of the book-keeper gleamed
as he nodded assent. “Yes. That country
has been used only once in the last five
years, and then the rain same after a few
months and the cattle were all shifted
back to the frontage again.”
Borthwick eyed him meditatively. “You
reckon actual numbers are in excess of book
figures?”
“Yes, sir—by a thousand at least!”
“Supposing we stocked up half that
northern country”—the short man paused
reflectively, his gaze still focussed on the
fidgeting man opposite—“do you think
that would meet with Mr. Donaldson’s
opproval?”
“I don’t think so. His policy is to keep
all that country strictly in reserve.”
“Um-m. Mr. Donaldson has a good
reputation as a cattleman?”
“Yes, sir.”
“And as a business man?”
“Well”—— Mr. Heath’s silence was
expressive.
“Just so!”
Borthwick rose jerkily to his feet and
gathered the light grey felt hat from the
table. In the act of departure he paused,
and Heath’s pale eyes gleamed happily.
But whatever he expected was not realised,
and he tried to conceal his disappointment
as the other man faced him again.
“What’s your opinion of the head stock-
man—the younger man, I mean?”
“Ken Craig?”
“Yes.”
“He seems to be quite efficient—as a
cattleman. 5 ’
Borthwick appeared not to notice the
inflection.
“You know that horse of his?”
“The'black stallion?”
“Well, I want him! I offered Craig a big
price and the fool refused.”
The book-keeper stood amazed at the
savage tone of the domineering figure. Mr.
Borthwick was evidently very much in
earnest, and his harsh voice had a snarl of
malevolence as he continued:
“I know a good horse when I see one, but
that horse is nothing short of a sensation.
Now, look here! I’m going to have that
horse. Understand?”
The book-keeper stiffened as at the crack
of a whip. He shifted uncomfortably under
the fierce glare, but the incisive voice went
on:
“He wouldn’t sell, so I offered to lease
the horse—even offered a big figure to be
allowed to train him and run him in my
name for two years, with a big percentage of
winnings to go to this Craig.”
“And still he refused?”
“A fool that hides a horse like that up
here for his own selfish ends deserves no
consideration.” The pompous figure snorted
belligerently.
“What failings has he? What are his
vices?”
Heath shook his head perplexedly. “I
couldn’t say, Mr. Borthwick. I haven’t
seen a great deal of him.”
“Does he gamble—drink?”
“I believe he used to drink heavily.”
“Good. Any women?”
The pale eyes gleamed with a crafty
light.
“I have an idea he is rather keen on Miss
Kennedy.”
“Miss—oh, yes, the thin girl!”
The hard blue eyes narrowed to mere slits.
“Who is this girl? Any relation of
Donaldson’s?”
“No. Only a friend of Miss Donaldson’s.”
“What is she doing here?”
“I—l couldn’t say. She doesn’t talk much
about herself.”
“Hmm. Well, we’ll -gee.” He strode
briskly towards the door, pausing there to
add, with a significance that was not lost on
the bookkeeper: “You’ll hear from me soon.
In the meantime, keep your mouth shut!”
The door slammed. The man, left alone,
slid into the hot chair, and a smile of satis-
faction played round the ends of the dark
moustache.
(To be continued, next week.)
Youth’s Realm.
What while I watched an old moon climb
Above an ancient sea,
Last night I sensed the ills that Time
And Care had wrought on me.
Wherewith to consort night and day
111 folk are they, in truth—
Despoilers twain, who steal away
The treasured gifts of youth.
There musing in that lone-lit place,
As on and on I strayed,
To free my soul from them a space
I summoned Fancy’s aid.
Off, off they slunk, grim-faced, dull-eyed,
With scowls thrown back, and then
For me the world grew blithe and wide
And flushed with youth again.
For, 10, it seemed with new-born light,
The moon, liigh-climbing, shone,
While shoreward raced the rollers bright,
Joy motioning them on.
A host of sprites, a fairy host,
Lit by the young moonbeams,
Up, up the coast, down, down the coast,
Danced sudden fiery gleams.
Now silver-lit, now lit with gold,
On beach and bar down-flung,
The waves sang, as they sang of old
When sun and star were young.
When white as noon and bright as noon
Lay land and widespread sea,
Late, late last night, beneath the moon,
This vision came to me.
Henceforth should I, of peace denied,
Grow sour and sullen, then,
Care cast aside, age thrust aside,
Youth’s realm I’ll seek again !
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
That Rakwool, one week after his spec-
tacular Grand National success, should have
tarnished his reputation by falling in a
minor steeplechase naturally caused a sen-
sation at Caulfield. Though weighted at 13.2,
the son of Woorak was backed from 7 to 4
down to 5 to 4. Sheil, the owner, regarded
it as all over bar shouting; Hoysted, the
trainer, declared that his idol would have to
fall in order to lose. Only two rivals —
Cellist and Bang Bang—met with any con-
siderable support. AVhat occurred was amaz-
ing. Bob Inkson rode his mount behind the
leaders for a few furlongs, but ran past
Bang Bang along the back and opened up a
four-lengths break. Inkson then tried to
slow down the field. His scheme was frus-
trated, as Bang Bang pressed Rakwool at
the fences in front of the stand. The
favorite ran down a couple, and finally
caused yells of apprehension by hitting the
logs so heavily that Inkson kept his seat with
the utmost difficulty. The jockey nursed
Rakwool thereafter, and was content to be
on terms' with Bang Bang at the second-
last obstacle. A long chapter of troubles
culminated there in Rakwool falling heavily,
leaving Bang Bang to win at his ease from
Welcome Stranger and Congoola.
Rakwool galloped in riderless. Inkson was
unhurt, but examination disclosed that Rak-
wool would have to be treated for damaged
stifles, if nothing worse. Sheil did not propose
to start Rakwool in the Australian Hurdle,
and his champion may not be able to run in
the steeple. Cellist catapulted Sandiford from
the saddle at a fence opposite the judge’s box.
Sandiford described a complete somersault
and landed in a sitting posture. Indicate
broke a leg when he fell, and had to be
destroyed. The owner, a daughter of Briga-
Bert’.“Are you insured, qert ?'*
<sert “Ves, Ive taken that
PRECAUTION
Bert : 4 Does the poucv cover
the third persoh ?"
Giert :''third persoh ? 'WHy, \
WKVENT HIT OHe VET"
dier-General Johnston, burst into tears at
the loss of her favorite horse, who had won
at Randwick and promised to do even better
in the future. Indicate was a half-brother
to Jack Rice, who scored with thumping
imposts over stiff timber some years ago.
Two Sydney horses competed in the
Leamington Hurdle; Drake, trained by Pat
Nailon for E. J. Watt, was in almost as good
demand as Solo King, and Gadray also had
a solid following. There are many more
elegant l-iders than the boy who handled
Gadray, and those who planked money on the
son of Gadabout grumbled over his failure
to finish nearer than fifth. Isocrates, a 7-to-l
chance, led throughout and romped home in
advance of imported Full Hand and the
improving Longlands. Drake slipped and
overturned after scrambling over the second
last flight of battens. Isocrates is not in
the Australian Hurdle. Originally he was
in the stable of Lou Robertson, but now is
trained by H. W. Gabell, who also has the
’chasers Sandhurst and Cellist. Solo King
failed lamentably, and Kalashie shaped even
worse.
Jack Holt saddled up High Brae and
Horatius for the Lillimur Two-year : old. He
entertains hopes of classic honors with the
former, but the Highfield colt was burly-
looking, and went out at any odds. Horatius
carried the stable label, and shortened in price
from 4tol to twos. He travelled fairly well
until three furlongs from home, where a
nasty bump settled all chance of winning.
Idle Banter was behind Horatius at that
stage; unwinding a magnificent run in the
straight, the Windbag colt smothered his
rivals and scored by two lengths from Lan-
cette and the St. Albans stud filly Ilelio-
star. W. Duncan, who had such a bad spin
on Horatius, landed the succeeding event, the
Murrumbeena Handicap, on Pendennis, who
returned his backers 6 to 1. The favorite,
Quickfirer, missed a place. This handsome
stallion belongs to Jerome Carey, of Rand-
wick. He broke down in the Y.R.C. Hotham
Handicap last spring, after running Cim-
brian to head. Carey left him in Melbourne,
and the son of Claro iiqw is raced on lease
by the Mentone trainer, H. Wolters. The
form of Quickfirer on Saturday suggests
that he will win before long. Minarca regis-
tered a surprise victory in the Kambrook
Trial, but Pure Blend —trained by Holt and
ridden by Duncan —was backed off the card
for the Malvina Welter and squeezed home
in advance of The Guide.
* * * $
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Gellibrand Hurdle: Cockcrow; next, Full
Hand.
Lindsay Gordon Steeple: Cellist; next,
Patriotic.
Two or three seasons ago there were few
sprinters more highly thought of in Sydney
than Royal Tune, a big chestnut gelding by
Greenstead —Majuba’s Daughter. He won
good races at six and seven furlongs, and
ran third in the 1928 Epsom to Amounis
and Sion, travelling as fast as either over
the last stage. After that performance he
was spelled, the idea being to get him ready
for one of the rich handicaps of 1929; but
he met with a mishap in the paddock, and
a .less patient trainer than S. J. Gallegos
might have abandoned the case as hopeless.
Royal Tune made his reappearance on the
turf in a race at Warwick Farm a few weeks
ago, but did nothing to suggest that he had
regained form. Produced again in the Flying
Handicap at Canterbury Park on Saturday,
and backed from tens to sevens, he showed
that the Warwick Farm trainer’s unweary-
ing care had not been wasted; in fact, the
big fellow made an exhibition of a field that
included some fairly smart horses, of which
Black Dina (12 to 1) and Gipsy Ruler (20
to 1) were the most prominent at the finish.
Royal Tune has Bst. 21b. in the Epsom, and
is not likely to have to meet so good a field
as when he ran third.
Some of the bookmakers seemed very
anxious to lay Sarcliion for the Canterbury
Handicap (the grey had won the Rosehill
Handicap on the previous Saturday), and
when the favorite dropped back beaten be-
fore half the journey had been traversed it
was agreed that they “knew something.”
The story is that Sarchion is a bleeder; if
so, he should be compulsorily retired, as
Beckwith has been. By taking Dreamdale
(6 to 1) to the front and slowing the field
down, Hickey got a highly profitable race
out of a hitherto disappointing horse; and
E. F. Walker, who trains Dreamdale, wel-
comed the turn of luck —all-conquering at
the summer meetings, Walker’s horses had
been out of the winning list for months.
Dark Isle and Red Moon (both 8 to 1) were
in the places; Gleaner, heavily backed at
fours, suffered a bump that sent him to the
rear, and then finished fourth on a twisted
plate. It was a treat to see Ring Boy (4
to 1) shoulder his lOst. 71b. in the Campsie
Handicap. He had the thing won a long
way from home; Lord Kennaquhair
(fourth), who might have been his most
troublesome opponent, was left 10 lengths
at the post.
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Kogarah Stakes; Gallant Top.
Flying Handicap: Labor Girl; next,
Gipsy’s Land.
July Handicap: New King; next, Spear-
shot.
Hurstville Mile: Royal Tune; next,
Chrysotta.
* * * *
“Roodee”: English racecourses, with few
exceptions, have for many years been noted
for the ruffianism of some of their frequent-
ers, organised gangs on the courses, and in
the trains going to and from them, making
things hot for punters and blackmailing
bookmakers. This last phase of the business
became so acute that a number of the pro-
minent bagmen formed a protective organ-
isation of “minders,” who received a good
salary to mount guard over their clients dur-
ing business hours and often out of them.
Some time ago the Jockey Club decided to
take a hand, and enrolled a force of special
police to deal with the gangs. So successful
have they been that the most notorious
courses a¥e now safe, with “the rings like
drawing-rooms” and the cheaper enclosures
accessible to respectable women.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Wally Hancock (10.6 f) with his well-
known left was more than Keith Lawson
(10.7) could cope with at Leichhardt. Law-
son seemed stronger than Hancock, but had
no defence for left hooks and these particu-
lar punches twice dropped him in the second.
Hancock then outfought his foe, although
he landed no more lefts until the fifth, in
which round Lawson took two trips to the
canvas. An uppercut flopped Lawson flat on
his face early in round six. He again arose,
but yet another left immediately sent him
out for the full count.
* * * *
Harry Mack and Reg Beauford were con-
sidered certain to conquer Darrell Reid and
Art H'oare respectively in the chief contests
on a Sydney Stadium popular programme,
but both were beaten. Mack (8.13) let Reid
(9.21) do all the leading for nine rounds,
and although the young Novocastrian fought
furiously in the 10th and last he lost on
points. Beauford (10.0) went after Hoare
(9.13) like his namesake of racing fame,
but was dropped in the first round and
knocked out in the second.
Footbrawl
The Sydney football codes had glorious
week-end weather for their competition
matches. The meeting of Eastern Suburbs
and Manly drew the biggest club crowd the
Union has had on the Sydney Cricket Ground
since it returned to the old fold (8700). A
win meant the premiership for Manly while
defeat called for a grand final. Defeat it was,
the faster and cleverer Easterners getting
home in the most convincing fashion by 23-6
(4 tries, a field goal, 2 converted goals and
2 penalty goals, all kicked by Ross) to a try
and a penalty goal. The first half was
fairly even, the big Manly forwards doing
well - but in the second spell the Easterners
drew’ away and finished with a rare burst
of scoring. The game was played at top
sneed all ttirough and both sides made it
open from start to finish. Manly failed
badlv in goal kicking, and the team showed
signs of disorganisation. Thicknesse out-
played Malcolm at half for the day, while
Miller, Egan and Cook combined rarely,
Ross was the usual Ross, and Tarleton’s
hooking helped the winners a lot. Primrose
was Manly’s best behind the pack, with
Louden, Telford and Walpole in the for-
wards. The grand final will be played on
August 8. Other results: University 20,
Randwick 9; Western Suburbs 13, Northern
Suburbs 6; Drummoyne 19, St. George 13.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Though a star forward and
five-eighth had to be left behind, Queensland
has sent down a red-hot Rugby Union team
for the matches against N.S.V. in Sydney,
beginning at Sydney Cricket Ground on
Saturday, and the subsequent trial for the
Maonland tour. I he visitors are a team of
youngsters and are a heavier lot than the
average Queensland side is apt to be. h our
come from Toowoomba and one from War-
wick. The two matches m Brisbane this sea-
son resulted m a win for N.S.W. in the first
game and a draw m the second, lhe Welsh-
men, selected early, have been undergoing
intensive training for a fortnight, but the
issue looks a very level go, with both teams
to a
“Kiwi”: The Victorian Rugby Union,
which is now solidly grounded in Melbourne
and has actually standing space allotted to
it in a press which once disdained to. notice
its existence, is greatly bucked by the selec-
tion of four of its players to figure in the
Australia v. The Rest trial game in Sydney
on August 3. The quartette are Cowper, the
old Newington centre; Taylor, a half-back
from Ireland; and Burns and Bridle, both
big and powerful forwards. Gordon Sturt-
ridge and the forward Bassity, who were
invited, are held up by University exams.
* * * *
“Jolimount”: Melbourne should see some
attractive Rugby in the middle of August
when Queensland, Melbourne and Sydney
Universities will play off for the Australian
University premiership. The carnival will
close with a match betwen a combined Uni.
team and Victoria. As that is fixed for
August 22, a week before the Victorians
meet N.S.W. in Sydney, the game should
give the Yarramen a chance to shake down
into a combination,
* * * *
The League games furnished a surprise
when the little-considered St. George headed
the hitherto unconquered Eastern Suburbs at
the Sports Ground 17-15 (3 tries and 4
goals to 3 tries and 3 goals). Though the
game had its attractive moments, both sides
devoted themselves to determined spoiling
tactics and in the closing stages some very
warm exchanges were in evidence. St. George
opened the scores with a good field goal by
McCormack, but brilliant play by the young
Eastern centre Brown, who put two of his
mates over for tries and added a converted
and penalty goal, saw East leading at half-
time. Norman dropped out of the Eastern
team after a few minutes in the second spell
and thenceforth East was up against it.
Relentless hammering by the Saints coupled
with clever opportunism from Kadwell, who
scored 2 tries and a goal, was capped with
a lucky try by Brierley. In the final rally
East added a try which was converted, but
time intervened. Balmain beat Newtown at
Marrickville by 9-7, while Uni. scored its
second win, 15-13, at North Sydney’s expense.
Western Suburbs added another defeat to
South Sydney’s record by winning 18-16 at
Pratten Park.
* * * %
“Shrewsbury”: The money taken by some
of the big English proprietary Soccer foot-
ball clubs is calculated to make the mouth
of the average Australian football official
water. Woolwich Arsenal, though early
out of the Cup ties, cleared over £30,000 last
season, gates averaging £2500. This in
spite of the fact that they had paid £20,000
for two forwards at the beginning of the
year. Chelsea, another of the big London
clubs, is said to have cleared about the same
sum, though they had also been making
expensive purchases, parting with £26,000
for four new players.
* * * *
Saturday’s Melbourne League games pro-
vided no surprises, and nothing of special
interest. Richmond’s Tigers went to St.
Kilda and gathered in the points—Bs to 48.
Carlton walked over Hawthorn, with 111 to
38; Collingwood similarly disposed of Fitz-
roy—lo 4 points to 58; and Geelong more
or less casually accumulated 131 points to
North Melbourne’s 64. The improving South
Melbourne put it all over Melbourne’s
Fuchsias, scoring 82 to 31. The only
close game was at Footscray, where the
locals held Essendon till lemon-time and
looked like winning. However, Essendon
unwound a few reels of pretty combined
play that gave them the game—Ss points
to 58.
* :» * :|:
Richmond : The Yictonan Football
League, which has always been antagonistic
to mter-btate matches and carnivals, holding
that the inter-club games m Melbourne and
other centres are more important, has never-
thetas been compelled by public opinion to
spend quite a lot of money on matches
a , gai P s t the other States. lhe other day
the League announced that since 1924 it had
blewed no less than £ll,OOO on these tours and
carnivals which are supposed to foster the
game m furrin parts. The result has been
ml, for while the Australian game remains
the leading one m South Australia, West-
ralia and Tassy, _ where it has always been
firmly :rooted, it is a sickly weed at best in
N.S.W. and Queensland, where much good
Victorian brass has been expended in
endeavors to establish it.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Melbourne press has
i a tely been resurrecting accounts of the
beginnings of football in Yarraville. Some
0 £ the reports have quite the modern touch.
Q ne ma t c b between the 14tli Regiment and
the Albert Park club came to an end because
the skipper of the regimental team “refused
to-abide by the decisions of the umpire,” so
the game was called a draw. That was in
and in the same year one of the
j ourna i s deplores “the increasing tendency
0Q the part of some players to confound
p] nc ]jy play with almost brutal savageness,”
which is just what the Melbourne critics are
complaining about in this year of grace.
(Continued on next page.)
Britain defeated America in the final
round of the Davis Cup at Paris, and for
the first time for 12 years will be in the
challenge round. Britain won by 3 matches
to 2, the Americans taking the doubles and
one of the singles. France will be without
Lacoste in the challenge round, her repre-
sentatives being Cochet and Borotra in the
singles, and Cochet and Brugnon for the
doubles.
*■ * * *
“Shrewsbury”: In spite of his batting
feats for Oxford the Nawab of Pataudi
(B. 15/7/’3l) is very much in the position
of the individual who was all dressed up but
could find nowhere to go. He has qualified both
for Kent and Middlesex. The Hoppers, like the
Tykes, use only home-grown talent. Middle-
sex, however, has been accustomed to recruit
its eleven from the uttermost ends of the
earth, players of every nationality bar, per-
haps, Eskimos, having figured at Lords.
That they, too, have refused the services
of the Nawab is surprising. Probably the
Marylebone C. 0. will take the Nawab to its
bosom when he goes down from Oxford,
and he may even figure in an England Eleven
without playing for a county, as bowler
Peebles did.
as # * *
“Admiral Blowmetight”: I was much
interested to read the other day that a Syd-
ney golfer, jumping into a sand bunker after
the recent deluge, had been nearly engulfed
by the treacherous trap, which the rains bad
converted into a quicksand. It recalls an
experience undergone by my old friend The
McHaggis—not the present holder of the
Lairdship, be it said. He was missing from
the Nineteenth on a particularly rainy even-
ing, and at last a party of us set out with
lanterns to look for him, because he had been
seen on the course earlier in the afternoon.
He was found, semi-conscious, in a bunker
rapidly being flooded by the rain—indeed
the rising water was just lapping his mouth.
As we were raising him he waved a depre-
cating hand and murmured “Ah’ll thank ye
for a ween mair sugar an’ nae sae inuckle
watter.”
H* *S»
> “Brassey”: The annual country week car-
nival for N.S.W. golfers will begin at the
Lakes Club in Sydney on September 7 with
a bogey competition followed by a four-ball
go in the afternoon. Teams matches at
Boonie Doon and Pymble will follow, to
be continued at Killara and Manly. The
championship events begin at Concord
with the foursome over .'hi holes. Next
day the singles—36 holes stroke —will
be played at Rose Bay. The week will wind
up on September 12 with a country-city
teams match at Elanora. Entries must be
with secretary T. C- Douglas, 15 Bent-street,
Sydney, before August 23.
iji “l» *l*
“Carnoustie”: That truth is ever stranger
than fiction is made plain by the experience
of an English golfer playing at the Seasalter
Club at ■ Wliitstable, famous for its oysters.
Playing from the first tee, one T. H. Newall
holed in one—the hole is a short one of
120 yards—his mashie-niblick shot bouncing
off the bank of the covering bunker and
going to earth. Coming round again and
playing the same hole as the tenth, exactly
the same thing happened. It would tax the
ingenuity of the most accomplished actuary
to calculate the odds against such an extra-
ordinary happening.


Missing Friends.
TV/IRS. ELSIE B. MILHERT (nee
JURGENS), beneficiary under a will.
Anyone having information of the where-
abouts of the above person please communi-
cate with No. 221, Bulletin Newspaper
Office, 214 George Street, Sydney, as it will
he to her advantage.
jffi§portin^
11NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS.
MTHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL. STATES" 6?
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
One third of Queensland*s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che IBrisbane (Iturner.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 °fo
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
* *
You can get more of these interest-
mg facts regarding the Queensland
MarTcet, from :
Che Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents’ H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
M 64
Men! Wear Wool, Perfectly Knitted,
for Comfort, Health and Economy
There is quality in every stitch of a RAMENO Sweater, Sock or Golf
Stocking; in every color attractiveness. RAMENO garments are
flawlessly knitted from pure Australian Wool in accord with the
highest English and Continental Standards in Men’s Knit-Wear for
comfort, health and the long wear that is real economy.
RAMENO
c A(erin o ~ c jfCn it
CARDIGANS and SWEATERS
SOCKS and GOLF STOCKINGS
OUR “RAMENO”
RIBBED SOCKS
WILL PLEASE
PARTICULAR
MEN.
w
WEAR WOOL,
ALL-WOOL
“RAMENO”
SOCKS & GOLF
STOCKINGS.
ASK DEFINITELY FOR
“RAMENO” BRAND.
Keep your feet dry and warm by wearing RAMENO Socks that are knitted
from fine Australian Merino Wool to keep chills away. Rameno Socks are
beautifully soft and snug-fitting; there are no rough edges to chafe the feet,
while Special 3-ply Heels and Toes give the extra strength that is so desirable
for durable, economical wear.
STOCKED BY LEADING MERCERS AND MEN’S STORES.
1
m.
I
1 :
SnS
1
Distinctive and
Dependable
For Sports, or as an Extra Gar-
ment for Everyday Wear, there
is nothing like a RAMENO
Cardigan or Sweater for cor-
rect appearance, real comfort
and protection from chills.
No. 365 Rameno Cardigan
(illustrated above) is a popu-
lar and serviceable garment of
medium-heavyweight quality,
closely knitted in a ribbed
stitch from pure Australian
Wools to give full elasticity.
Colors: Slate, Fawn, Scotch
Grey and Oyster. AVAIL-
ABLE IN ALL SIZES from
Small Men’s up to 50in. chest
measurement.
YOUR MERCER WILL
FIT YOU WELL.
INSIST ON "RAMENO”—the ex-
clusive productions of the MERINO
WOOLLEN MILLS PTY. LTD., the
Specialist Knitting House for Men’s
High-grade Cardigans, Pull-overs,
Socks and Golf Hose.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: In spite of good gates the
Melbourne football clubs are finding it hard
to equalise the financial equilibrium, as Sir
Otto would say. Many of the players are
out of work, and the clubs are hard put to it
to meet expenses of maintenance alone,
though, as in the case of the Association
clubs, all payments under agreements not
in writing have been cut from the usual
figure of £2 a week to 10s. One club held
a players’ meeting the other day, and passed
a vote of censure on the committee. The
trouble springs from the extravagance of
the past, when clubs initiated the system of
bidding against each other for the services
of good players who practically wrote their
own tickets. There are still some of these
about drawing big money under signed con-
tracts, and knowledge of the fact does
not make the ordinary player, compelled to
accept a few shillings a week, any the better
inclined to the heads.
* * * *
“Rover”: Fifty years have elapsed since
the first football match took place between
Victoria and N.S.W. —really between
the Carlton and Waratah clubs. This
game was played in Sydney under Rugby
Union rules, which placed the Victorians at
a disadvantage. They were well and truly
defeated. The tables were turned in the next
game, when Victorian (now called Austra-
lian) rules were observed; the Waratahs
found themselves all at sea. Jack Gardiner
(one-time Carlton champion and subse-
quently a prominent Melbourne alderman)
skippered the Victorians.
=!= * * !|C
“Stand Off” : T. C. Davis, president of
the Western Suburbs Club, has been chosen
as manager of the Australian Rugby Union
team to tour Maoriland this season. He is
a council member of the Union, and has been
closely connected with cricket also. He won
the job after a ballot with H. M. Hay, the
old-time Australian Olympic swimming-
representative, who is nowadays a keen fol-
lower of the amateur code in Manly, though
he once figured in the Eastern Suburbs first-
grade XV. The side under Davis will be tlie
first Australian Rugby Union team to visit
the Shivery Isles since 1913, when Queens-
land was last represented.
* * * *
“Gate”: Protesting loftily against the
“insult” involved in the English offer of
£2OO for every poached player on the hoof,
the N.S.W. League last week followed the
example of Pooh Bah and decided to pocket
the affront. Indeed cash is becoming more of
an obsession than ever with the League.
There is already a strong movement in its
ranks to abolish district football and form
limited-liability cos. in the guise of clubs,
with salaried players tied up by water-
tight contracts.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Britain has got into the
final round of the Davis Cup for the first
time since 1919, when she fought out the
challenge round with Australia in Sydney.
The side has been most consistent this year,
the defeat of Austin by Menzel, of Czecho-
slovakia, being the only match lost by the
Britons during the tourney. Britain’s last
win was in 1912, when, chiefly by the agency
of that redoubtable Irishman J. C. Parke,
the challengers unexpectedly lifted the cup
from Norman Brookes and co. in Melbourne.
•I* : i» »!* '•*
“Cut Shot”: Whatever the result of the
final between America and England, it seems
almost a certainty that France will lose the
Davis Cup, which she has now held for four
successive years. Cochet has contracted
synovitis, according to the cable, and the
knee trouble is not to be lightly surmounted
in a few days. Lacoste has played little
tennis since an appendicitis operation some
months ago, while Borotra and Brugnon are
on the down grade, though in spite of that
they are still the only choices available for
second and third places. The American
Shields has also been the victim of a knee
accident, but, though he had to drop out of
the singles final at Wimbledon, it has not
proved serious.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Baffy”: Miss Odette Lefebvre, the Aus-
tralian-born French girl who won the N.S.W.
women’s championship at Rose Bay last
Thursday, is one of those golfers who are
made as well as born. When she took to
the game 18 months ago she had never
handled a club. She didn’t make the mis-
take of going on to the links and learning
by her mistakes. Acting on the sound advice
of a friend, she put herself unreservedly in
the hands of Walter Clark, the Killara pro.,
and picked up the right way to make the
basic strokes. Practice did the rest. Miss
Hammond, who fought out the final with her,
is a great little player, too, but she doesn’t
get the. same length from the tees or through
the fairways, as a rule, and she hasn’t
the same iron nerve on the greens. How-
ever, she has plenty of time to improve,
being only 19 —two years younger than the
new champion.
* * *
“Bloggs” : Last week’s golf match between
the Union and R. S. Yacht clubs, on the
latter’s miniature links, w T as a more or less
comic affair- —few of the contestants knew
anything about golf, and those who did were
no longer in the first flush of youth—but it
promises to pave the way to more serious
things. F’or some reason, though Sydney’s
social clubs sometimes meet at cricket, they
don’t play one another regularly at golf, as
the leading West End of London clubs do.
There is now talk of annual matches being
arranged. On paper the Union has most
of the topnotchers. For example, Betting-
ton, Nigel Smith, Rundle and Monty Walker,
a marvel of steadiness, who went round the
short course at Royal Sydney the other
day in 62. But there are some very hot per-
formers in both the Australian and N. S.
Wales clubs.
“Baffy”: Low-markers got the start of
their lives last week when Hector Morrison
announced in the Sydney “Telegraph” that
no N, S. Wales players would be eligible to
compete in the Australian and open cham-
pionships, which begin at Kensington next
month. No one with a worse handicap than
1 can enter for the amateur twosomes
events, and under the State handicapping
system, just adopted by the N.S.W. Council,
the best of the Ma State’s topnotchers have
become 2-handicap men. The trouble has been
solved by a ruling from the Australian Golf
Union that N.S.W. players in entering for
either singles or foursomes may deduct from
their present handicaps the strokes by which
their handicaps were put up under the par
system. It is only one of the myriad
embarrassments that are going to smite
N.S.W. golfers in the near future as an
outcome of the new arrangement.
“D.”: How the camera finds them out!
I followed the Eerrier-Apperly match at
Rose Bay and couldn’t fault the drives. The
Fox-Movietone pictures disclosed that both
players had been forcing, and particularly
Apperly. Compare the photographed swings
of the N.S.W. cracks with that of Bobby
Jones —smooth, effortless, all in one move-
ment—and you get a measure of the wide
gap between a champion and those who are
short of the championship class. A similar
difference can be seen in a baseball news-
gazette item shown recently at Sydney
Capitoh The near-champs, swipe, and don’t
seem to get much distance. Then the cele-
brated Babe Ruth —an elderly person with
an aldermanic waist —comes along, and
gently, gracefully, wafts the ball over the
pavilion. I have seen Victor Trumper pull
fast ones out of the S. C. Ground with just
such an insolently leisured and assured
movement.
Car and Cycle
“King’s Cross”: Some, people would do
anything to get out of Darlinghurst. One
of them is W. Hatfield, author of that
capital novel “Sheopmates,” who, with a
companion, will leave the cocaine capital in
a motor-car for Darwin this week. The
outward trip will be via Moree and up
through Central Queensland, doubling back
from Thargomindah to Innamincka, in
South Australia, and thence back to Queens-
land at Birdsville. The stock route up the
Georgina will then be followed to the N.T.,
and thence through Daly Waters to Darwin.
The return trip will run through Camooweal
to Townsville, and down the east coast to
Sydney again. It is an adventurous itiner-
ary, and in pleasing contrast to the round-
Australia journeys that are now becoming
a commonplace.
❖ *
“Disc Clutch”: The latest entry in the
field to upset the world’s speed record held
by Britain is a 16-cylinder 300-h.p. gadget
designed and built by Harry Miller. There
will be two engines in the car, one in front
and the other in rear, with the drive on all
four wheels. Piston displacement is 303 cubic
inches, giving nearly one h.p. for each cubic
inch. The motor weighs 5551 b. inclusive,
and is built of chrome-nickel molybdenum.
Compression ratio is 81 to 1 with a possible
increase to 12. It is not supercharged.
“Kick Starter”: British motor-cycles con-
tinue to dominate. Holland’s Tourist Trophy
races were gathered in by British riders
on British machines. The Lightweight
event, over 150 miles, was won by
Tyrrell-Smith in 2hr. 6min. 57sec. Stan-
ley Woods took the Junior race of 173
miles in 2hr. 14min. 50sec., the Australian
rider Simcock falling, though he eventually
finished sixth. Hunt, recently successful in
the Isle of Man races, won the Senior (193
miles) in 2hr. 21min. 58sec., incidentally
breaking the world’s record lap speed with
a round at 851 m.p.h. Simcock this time
filled fifth place.
“Throttle” : A curious happening was re-
sponsible for the recent failure of Australian
E. A. Simcock to beat the world’s motor-
cycle speed record of 150.7 m.p.h. Simcock
did his first ride at the rate of 153.9 m.p.h.,
but engine trouble prevented the necessary
spin in the opposite direction. Investigation
showed that the points of one of the spark-
plugs had been bridged by aluminium. A
small piece of this from the top flange of the
piston had broken away, and this became
pounded to pieces and finally bridged the
points.
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk”: Playing in Adelaide against
Tom Newman, to whom he gave 3000 and a
terrible belting, Walter Lindrum hoisted a
now r Australian break record with 2609
points, beating Will Smith’s record. 2030,
made against McConachy in Sydney.
The break was Lindrum’s two hundredth over
the 1000 since he left for England in 1929.
“Spike”: A young gentleman likely to
make our Jim Carlton scratch gravel at Los
Angeles next year is Danie Joubert, a
student at Stellenbosch University, near
Capetown. Born in Natal, he has several
times been clocked to do the 100 in 9 2-ssec.,
which sounds rather a tall order, though
the Afrikander timekeepers thoroughly
understand their job. Recently at the South
African inter-University championships he
did the 100 in 9 2-ssec., the 220 in 21
3-lOsec, and the 120 hurdles in 15 l-ssec.
all in the one afternoon.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: As if there were not enough
alleged sports for the Australian to waste
time and money upon, someone has evolved
a new one, which is described as a variation
of baseball combined with boomerang throw-
ing! Ten players make a team, and the
man on the home base has to throw a
boomerang round a pole some distance away
and get round to the base again to score.
If the implement comes to earth or is caught
before the thrower gets home, he’s out.
There would seem to be easier things to
catch than the knife-edge abo. weapon, but
some 15 teams are said to be playing in the
Parramatta district. A State championship,
to be played next month, is even mooted.


1
I
w
Cash’s Ribbons are
made in daintiest fade-
less Pastel Shades, and
are ideal for Shoulder
Straps and Lingerie.
RIBBONS
Look like new after
repeated washing—ob-
tainable in a variety of
widths.
Ask your Draper for Cash
J.SIJ. Cash Australian
W eaving Co. Pty. Ltd. i
Richmond, Melbourne.
Slogan for Riverina Movement.
“PUT LANG GOVERNMENT OUT”
Read “THE BARRIER MINER” of
last Tuesday for certain and rapid
method.
This vigorous Australian daily pub-
lished at Broken Hill, the great sheep
and mineral country.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: WARM CORNER.
THEATRE ROYAL:
MY LADY’S DRESS.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Commencing JULY 25, and transferring to
COMEDY THEATRE, JULY 30.
PATIENCE,
also
COX AND BOX.
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: Tivoli Celebrity Vaudeville Pty., Ltd.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE & REVUE.
TWICE DAILY, 2,30 and 8 p.m.
Plans Allans and Theatre C 928.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER.
The State Exes, had an unusual week-end
jaunt. They went up into the hills above
Waterfall, where nature-lover Chisholm
coaxed the lyrebird to a scintillating display
of its native wood notes wild. The expedi-
tion took with it a portable wireless, and
in the evening the result was broadcast to
America. Gilbert Murray’s lady, who is
down south for treatment for a strained leg,
did not venture to the last craggy fastness,
but A.D.C. Gifford toiled manfully to the
eyrie, looking as proud as Norval on the
Grampian Hills.
Jessie Tait’s engagement to Jim Bancks
caused an impromptu reception just below
the stage after the Balokovic concert on
Saturday. Jessie was radiant, and wore
what looked like a brand-new masterpiece
in black taffetas patterned in white blooms
to receive her congratulations. Her red hair
was as vibrant as the diamonds in her ring,
and they were the quality only a reigning
prince or a successful black-and-white artist
can bestow. E. J. Tait is immensely pleased
with the idea of Jim as son-in-law, and
indeed that young man seems to have a
way with him with his own sex. This
paper’s old chief, William Macleod, regarded
him as a white-headed boy among the
young artists who some years ago weekly
brought offerings up The Bulletin stairs.
Balokovic played the Mendelssohn con-
certo like one inspired, and the audience
became enthusiastic and greedy, until at
the end he practically added another pro-
gramme. Needless to say, there were about
nine women to every man at the concert, and
the sex? did itself proud in the matter of
adornment. Shorn lamb lifted its pathetic
whiteness on every side, and such was its
quality that the heavens didn’t need to
temper their winds to the wearers thereof.
Mrs. Balokovic was described by the Girl
in the Flat Opposite as uninterrupted
silence in black Persian lamb. And indeed
the violinist’s wife, who neither paints nor
powders, doesn’t use her tongue much in
public. Apparently this is no hindrance to
her popularity, for Charlie Westmacott
declares the Firm has never managed an
artist and his wife more in demand. Over
300 letters and invitations had piled up at
the J.C.W. office before they arrived. One
of the jolliest informal parties for the pair
was given by Mrs. Jessica Lee in her
Macquarie Book Club.
That Nellie Stewart should leave nearly
£16,000 came as a surprise to numbers of
her friends and old-time admirers. For
no apparent reason there had grown up a
belief that Nell was rather hard up, and this
persisted in spite of her pretty home on
Bradley’s Head and her appearances on the
city streets in a smart car. The public
loves a tradition. Old actors and actresses,
according to legend, should be hard up,
although even Shakspeare seems to have
seen the value of a competence. With the
exception of some small legacies (among
them £lOO apiece to Tottie and Tripper
Musgrove) half the money goes to daughter
Nancye Lynton, and half (upon trust) to
Nell’s grandson, John Lynton.
“Joey’s,” at Hunter’s Hill, celebrated its
golden jubilee last week, and old pupils from
every part of the State turned up for the
jubilations. These included a dinner and
a fireworks display that must have turned
the Milky Way sour with envy. Besides
the special High Mass, at which the singing
of the boys’ choir was sheer beauty, there
w r as Benediction at the Grotto in the college
grounds, the blessing being given by the
Apostolic Delegate. There’s at least one
Ryde resident who remembers the move of
this famous Marist Brothers’ School from
Church Hill to Hunter’s Hill. He is Godfrey
Kelly, and his name was the first name on
the roll of the college. Then the pupils
numbered 40; now, even in these months of
depression, there are 30Q.
An interesting visitor whom Maoriland
will welcome this week is Lilian Wooding,
author of a child’s book, “Cave in the Sky,”
just published in London. Lilian’s father
was minister of the Newington Green Uni-
tarian Church in London, and her mother
is a sister of the late Lord Oxford and
Asquith. Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide
have already been mentally measured by Miss
Wooding; now Auckland and Canterbury are
to be her resting places before she again
turns her face to England.
The Games are certainly a united family.
Son Philip, a student at St. Paul’s, invited
his mother and father to join his party for the
college dance; and as Sir Philip and Lady
Game weiit in their parental and not in
their official capacity, they enjoyed the
flutter, and looked like it. The dancing,
as usual, was in a large marquee in the
grounds. This was all trimmed with maroon
and gold, and here college-warden Canon
Garnsey and Mrs. Garnsey received. The
hostess mingled black tulle and rose-red
satin in her frock and a black and gold
shawl was added for comfort. Lady Game
was sheathed in gold and Miss Crowdy in
pewter laces. Within the college there were
fires in the common-room and in the various
studies ; in the grounds, for the comfort of
the chauffeurs, a great fire blazed through
the night. The dancers were mostly bright
young things, the girls frocked in chiffon or
iace fluffiness. Of these, Nancy Bavin, in
parchment lace; Mary Adams, in dryad
greens; Margaret Honey, in sky-after-rain
blue; and that good dancer, Sylvia Stewart,
in Persian red moire, caught the eye. Joan
Crowhurst and Diana Herring were two nice
fledglings under the vice-regal wing. Aide
Gifford and Colonel Gannon were among the
back-to-youtli contingent, as were Frank
Albert, with his imperial, and Mrs. Frank,
in a souffle of white lace, its cobweb mesh
spattered with iridescence. Mrs. R. Deno-
van, her pictorial frock in Granny Smith-
green moire, was another of the admired.
While the Latins were gaily commemo-
rating the fall of the Bastille, around at
David Jones’s nearly 900 danced vigorously
that the Christian Brothers’ College at
Waverley might rise higher and spread
wider. The purple and gold of the college
appeared royally in crest and flag, arose in
pride in table decorations, and flashed on
the wrist badges worn by members of the
committee. Headed by Brother Marlow and
the dance president, Mrs. C. C. Gibbons,
these lined up in force and rich raiment to
welcome Chief Justice Street and his lady,
who were the bigwigs of the night. Mrs.
Gibbons, her sleek black panne velvets in
contrast to their' snowy raiment, later pre-
sented 12 debs, to the law knight and his
lace-clad wife. Molly Maher, who was the
force behind the ball’s publicity, wore black
georgettes shiny with sequins. Secretary
Agnes Moran’s chiffons were the pale pink
of a tea-rose, and Margery Herridge, who
headed the young set, was in springtime
green.
Dr. Oscar Diethelm was a proud man
when he surveyed the roll-up to the
High School Old Boys’ dance. This
is the 19th jazz milestone of the union,
and although the affair was not so crowded
as usual enthusiasm ran just as high. The
decorations on the great official table were
in brown leaves, golden flowers and blue
streamers. There were plaques of brown
leaves, on which the initials of the union
in marigolds stood out in bold relief. Each
lady at the H-shaped table received a
floral IT worked in forget-me-nots, and the
same momentous capital blazoned the choco-
late and blue shields on the pillars of the
ballroom. Mrs. Diethelm helped her presi-
dent husband in entertaining, and caught the
gaze with her unusual green taffetas embel-
lished with filmy drapes of ivory lace. All
the big public schools had sent an ambassa-
dor to the Court of “High,” and so many of
the wives and best girls in the group wore
black that Miriel ITeyde (she represented
the High School Old Girls’ Union), in her
primrose chiffons, and Doris Freeman, in her
grassy-green, were as welcome as the first
shoots of spring. Minister for Education
Davies and the school’s headmaster, G. E,
Saxby, were important people.
Ellie Shannon, elder daughter of the J. J.
Shannons, of Wyndham, Merriwa, became
the. wife of Dr. Kevin O’Hanlon, of Quir-
indi, at St. Canice’s, in Darlinghurst, on the
coldest day of last week. Father Ward came
from Merriwa to tie the knot. Mrs. W. D.
Langton, of Centennial Park, lent the wed-
ding veil, a fairy-like weave of Limerick
lace, which had already adorned 16 brides.
The quiet little church was warm with
baskets of golden poppies, and on the altar
arum-lilies stood in their white beauty. Kath-
leen Shannon and Dr. Moya Blackall, in
yellow chiffons, their hands filled with wall-
flowers, yellow roses aud daffodils, followed
the bride’s ivory satins. After the knot-
tying Mr. and Mrs. , Shannon received
at No. 9 Springfield-avenue, and here best-
man Dr. Kevin Collins and ’groomsman John
Shannon were two little joy-spreaders.
Penelope Cay, the girl in this Freeman
picture, has just hung out her sign as a
teacher of dancing. She is one of the Mort
clan, and came to Sydney as a schoolgirl
just after her
father, Com-
mander Cay,
went down
fighting in the
battle of Jut-
land. For sev-
er a 1 seasons
Penelope was
notable as one
of the most
graceful of
Sydney’s ball-
room dancers,
and having de-
cided to make
her living by
r e v o lutions,
she went to
London and
studied with
J o s e p h ine
Bradley, who,
besides being
considered one
of its jazz chiefs, is, this Letter is informed,
one of the best-dressed women in the big
city. Incidentally, it was on Commander
Cay’s boat that the Duke of York served
as a midshipman.
The Tricolor was still more firmly estab-
lished on the fallen Bastille by the French
colony in Sydney on the 14th of this month,
in the morning by the usual toast-washed
levee at the Consulate, and in the evening
by the French Alliance jubilation. This
latter was staged in the ballroom of Hordern
Brothers, above Pitt-street. Tickets at
prices to meet the times had sold well, and
there was a crowded audience for the playlet
which opened the fun. “The Cicada and
the Ants” was the title, and in it president
Alfred Wunderlich, ambushed behind prodi-
gious whiskers, was the once extravagant
and now hard-up man of leisure who is
showing the thrifty middle-class family how
to enjoy its garnered wealth. The two ladies
in the cast were Mrs. Jacques Playoust and
Mrs. P. Wibaut (her husband is an engi-
neer in Cairo). They both wore the raiment
of 50-odd years ago with an air, and later
on, for the dancing, became chiffoned moder-
nity. Marguerite Wunderlich sported one
of the most graceful frocks of the night; it
was in patterned chiffons in old rose, and
was girdled with a cherry-red velvet sash.
Mrs. Wunderlich hostessed a large party,
and in it was daughter-in-law Mrs. Charles
Wunderlich. The Jack Gregorys, too, and
Count Pietrasanta were at this white- and
blue-covered table. The Jacques Playoust
couple and a jolly party hobnobbed at the
end of the room. Banker Spitzer’s wife was
very correct in vellum lace. France’s Acting-
Consul-General Bourguin was in the group
at Trade-Commissioner Bader’s table; here
also were Mr. Carlotti. the French Resident
in the' New Hebrides, and his wife. Venie
Chopin, in black lace, was as graceful, as
one of her ancestor’s waltzes; Mrs. F. J.
Davy was another successful wearer of black.
Claude Kingston was among the dancers,
and Italy’s Consul-General, complete with
wife and daughter, dropped in to pay his
respects.
Jean Cheriton, the popular and pretty
schoolmarm of Doone, is still in Lewisham
private hospital. A projected ten-days’ stay
has lengthened into weeks. But visitors and
letters are now allowed.
Louisette Dezarnaulds, the youngest belie
of one of Sydney’s well-known French fami-
lies, became the wife of Max Brunning-
hausen, of Verviers, Belgium, recently at All
Saints’, Woollahra. Mimi Dezarnaulds, in
cloud-like blue tulles, billowed up the aisle
after her sister’s parchment satins, Mr. E.
Dulieu was best man, and the cake was cut
at the home of one-time Labor member
G. 11. W. MacDonald and his wife, who was
the eldest Miss Dezarnaulds.
Little mice of cold ran up and down the
legs of even the distinguished as they scur-
ried across the pavement from their cars to
the St. James Hall on the frostiest night of
the year to make acquaintance with “Adam
the Creator.” This Capek satire on Man
attracted a group of fashionables, as well as
highbrows; the bright-eyed Mr. Kuraz, stand-
ing beneath his country’s flag, drew for his
listeners a picture of the old nation of
which he is Consul-General. The throb of
Slavonic music beat through the hall, and
programme-sellers in the Czechoslovak
national costume splashed the aisles with
gay colors and a fairy-tale sense of remote-
ness. The Players’ Club was responsible for
this production, and Joyce MacTavish was
Eve, who in spite of the old song didn’t
seem to find such ineffable happiness when
she was the only girl in the world, and Adam
the only boy. In fact she left the orchardist.
to run off with the Cave Man. Alice Gould
and Gladys Shaw were other prizes in the
matrimonial market. The Governor and
Lady Game were among the loud applauders;
as was the wife of Hubert Murray, Governor
of Papua, her flowered chiffons silvered o’er
with lame. Miss Crowdy wore watercress-
green chiffons, Chief Justice Street aud his
lady, the Wilfred Fairfaxes and Colonel
Gannon, who is staying at Government
House, were a few of the night’s pointed-out.
When Mrs. Seccombe had heard the May
Moore camera click at her for the last time
she buttoned up her coat and hied her to
the Zoo to study her Australian friends.
Particularly does she wish to do the kan-
garoo justice
when she
models him
for her pot-
t e r y. Mrs.
Seccombe, who
is a w e 11-
known Arts
and Crafter,
has already
presented her
public with
pensive and
bored native-
bears, with
m i s c hievous
k o o kaburras,
with the agile
rock wallaby.
A trip to the
Caves resulted
in the success-
ful capture of
this b u s h
brother by the
lady’s pencil, but she linds the Too an un-
satisfactory sitter. The Arts aud Grafts
show in the late spring should have a line
display of Mrs. Seccombe’s work, for the
furnace at her Epping home lias been going
overtime, and from it her special friends, the
Australian birds, have emerged very smooth
of plumage.
Mrs. F. Aronson, founder of the Society
of Women Writers, who was a presswoman
when Sydney had such good-looking and
socially-active Governors as Earl Beau-
champ, was the speaker at last week’s lunch
of the society. She gaily took present-day
scribes round the flats of Chelsea and
Regent’s Park, in which women journalists
and novelists entertained her when she
visited London in the days of Edward the
debonair. Perhaps one liked most the pic-
ture of Lucas Malet, that brilliant daughter
of Charles Kingsley, as she sat in the flower-
ful garden in the Kingsley country, running
her mental measure over her own sex. The
newer woman was then coming into the
speed track, and an admirer of hers, the
famous Mrs. Aria, had summed up in her
favor, dismissing the Victorian era with “the
wider their skirts the narrower their views.”
John Oliver Hobbes, Mrs. Belloc Lowndes,
Frank Danby, John Strange Winter and
Sarah Grand were others who flashed before
the mind in these thumbnail sketches. The
curious and invigorating part of the dis-
course was that the speaker assured her list-
eners that all the writing ladies were both
good-looking and smart dressers. This was
backed up by another presswoman who did
the grand tour about the same time and
met the same group. As they spoke the
sparkle of contentment flashed in every eye,
and as each woman left the table she settled
her hat at a still more dangerous angle.
Brains and attractiveness obviously went
hand in hand.
Hugh Denison’s lady, in amber browns
on which skunk of the best parentage
appeared without stint, headed the line of
Empire Society’s notables who greeted the
coming guest at the quarterly at-home. Hugh
was absent—there’s not much leisure for
tea-parties these days for men in the news-
paper game—but kindly Alfred Meeks acted
as proxy. He welcomed the Major-General
Bruche couple, who were the guests of
honor, and in return the Major-General
told about famous men and places encoun-
tei-ed on his travels abroad. In particular
his description of the Armistice Day services
in London stirred his listeners. Mrs. Bruche
sat to attention inhaling her general’s speech
and the fragrance of a presentation basket
of violets ; a white gardenia bloomed in the
lapel of her black coat, and its twin appeared
on her tight little black hat. Mrs. Athol
Mobbs and Miss Thornton were responsible
for the music.
In the Lyceum Club last Thursday morn-
ing the women’s auxiliary of the Sailors
and Soldiers’ Fathers’ Association turned
the warm smile of welcome on Lady Game.
The Governor’s wife has become patroness
of this little group that is always ready to
slip a shoulder under the burden of the sick
or needy Digger. There were tea and hot
buttered toast and words of appreciation for
her Ex., Mrs. W. M. Hopkins being the
mouthpiece for the assembly. Dame Mary
Hughes, the Meeks lady and secretary Mrs.
Hamilton-Lewis helped the smooth running
of the get-together; Mayoress Jackson could
not come, but was represented by the nose-
gay of roses and violets carried by Lady
Game.
The Toe II bridge-party, which recently
filled David Jones’s to overflowing, has
scored about £l2O for the fund. The
Mayoress passed a cheque for 100 guineas
to the care of Mr. Justice Harvey last week.
Alathea Glasby, Thea Proctor aud Sid
Long are to be the judges of the fancy cos-
tumes at the Journalists’ Ball. The Blax-
land Galleries will be the scene of action,
and there’s to be a presentation of debs, to
the vice-regals.
OVERHEARD.
Draper : “Chiffon or georgette, Madame ? It’s in
material.”
A bunch from Bananaland: —
The Governor and Lady Goodwin attended the races
at Ascot. Her Ex. was in fine grey tweed, with a
pearl-grey satin blouse and a Burgundy velour hat
and Arctic-fox fur. Mrs. A. E. Moore chose black
and white; Mrs. B. 0. Bell was in sky-blue woo!,
with a cream satin jabot and droop hat; Mrs. Harry
Emmerton (Melbourne) wore black velvet; Mrs.
Hannibal King was in black crepe de Chine; Ella
O’Shea chose fawn tweed, with fitch furs; and Mrs.
E. K. Tully navy.
There was a ball at the Troeadero for the funds
of the Villa Maria, the hostel for aged women which
is looked after by the Sisters of Perpetual Adora-
tion. The Governor and Lady Goodwin were present;
also the Attorney-General and Mrs. N. Macgroartv
and Mrs. A. E. Moore. Lady Goodwin wore blue
satin beautd and a necklet of white fox; Mrs. Moore
was in black Chantilly with a grass-green crepe
de Chine wrap, trimmed in black fox; Mrs. Mac-
groarty was in black panne velvet.
The Queensland Women’s Hockey Association held
its dinner at the Australian Hotel, Freda Bagc
receiving the guests. Poinsettia was the principal
decoration, and tiny hockey sticks tied with the
club colors were in evidence. Prizes were given for
the best decorated tables, and went to the Enoggera,
St. Andrew’s and McWhirter’s clubs.
A welcome was given to Mrs. Alfred Hill and
her composer husband at the Ann Hathaway. Dr.
and Mrs. E. H. Fowles received. Mr. Hill praised
the high standard of Brisbane’s choral music.
The Town and Country Club gave a reception to
Joseph Hislop, Mrs. Harry Cameron receiving. Jean
Naylor arranged the music programme, to which Jill
Manners, Shirley Lawson, Mrs. B. F. Lawson, Adeline
Colledge, Joyce Bloom and Less Edye contributed.
The tea to celebrate the birthday of Toe H in
Brisbane was held in St. Luke’s Hall. The Governor
was present, J. S. Arkell was chairman, and Padre
D. S. Brumwell led the Toe H grace. His Ex.
mentioned that he knew Poperinghe and Talbot
House well. R. M. King recalled that the founder
of Toe H, P. B. Clayton, was a Queenslander.
The Brisbane Grammar Old Boys’ Association held
its dance in the school assembly hall, where head-
master Stuart Stephenson and daughter Jessie, in
black velvet, received the guests.
Lady Goodwin’s transport corps of women motorists,
some 50 strong, took tea with their Exes, in the
drawing-room of Government House. Lady Goodwin
wore blue, with fitch furs.
There was a garden party at Government House
on the warmest, brightest afternoon of the week.
Their Exes, received at the steps; a marquee decked
with wattle and bougainvillaea provided tea, Colonel
Worthington Wilmer aud Colonel Campbell made
the announcements, Mr. Frank Ryder and Mrs. N.
H. Campbell helped, and Girl Guides, under the com-
mand of Jess Myers, lent their aid. Lady Goodwin
wore garnet marocain with a white-fox stole, and a
garnet-hued cloche.


Straight down the fairway
for 350 yards
“T he Longest Ball I ever hit —
Fred Popplewell . . .
a® s
s3Bg
.
©
ŵ
Fred Popplewell, pop
ular Sydney golf pro
fessional.
Where Fred Popplewell
got his greatest shot.
The arrow shows where
the ball finally rested.
It was a 350 yards drive!
LAYING at Kensington
JJ (Sydney) in 1928 I struck
a remarkable patch of long driv-
ing. ... I reached the 6th green
(577 yards) in two and holed my
putt for an Eagle 3. On reaching
the 17th I was chaffed into hitting
hard. To the amazement of those
present my ball reached the green
—350 yards! I used Spalding Balls
on this occasion, as I have for five
years.” ... This is what Fred Pop-
plewell, famous Australian profes-
sional, told us about his longest
shot. The only thing he omit-
ted to mention was that many
another of his straight, clean-hit
drives has ‘nearly equalled this
one “master stroke.”
* * *
Spalding equipment is used by
53% of Australia’s golfers. And
Spalding golf balls are preferred for
two major reasons —they give
greater distance and accuracy . . .
they last longer.
For albround use, for good distance
and sure work on the greens, there
is no ball that can equal the Spal-
ding Kro-Flite. It has durability,
is economical as well. Its cover is
too tough to cut.
The Kro-Flite is excelled for dis-
tance only by the Par —the world’s
greatest distance ball. In 1930 the
four major championships of the
world: The British Open and
Amateur and the U.S.A. Open
and Amateur were won with
Spalding balls.
Your card will show lower figures
if you use Spalding equipment.
Sold by all sports stores and pro-
fessionals.
w
In 1930, 17 national championships
were won with Spalding balls.
Every Kro-Flite Ball is
Guaranteed
We absolutely guarantee re-
placement of any Kro-Flite ball
that is cut through or becomes
unplayable for any cause what-
soever, in 72 holes of play.


Legal Notice.
gOUTH AUSTRALIA—IN THE SUPREME COURT
No. 343 of 1931.
IN THE MATTER of “The Companies Act 1892”
And IN THE MATTER OF COMMONWEALTH
AGRICULTURAL SERVICE ENGINEERS,
LIMITED in Liquidation.
UPON THE APPLICATION of William Hercules
O’Flaherty and James Roberton Craig the Liquid-
ators of the abovenamed Company by summons dated
the 26th day of -Tune 1931 IT IS DIRECTED THAT
ALL CREDITORS of the abovenamed Company
whether their respective claims have been filed previ-
ously or not ARE HEREBY REQUIRED on or
before the 31st day of August 1931 to send their
names and addresses and the particulars of their
debts or claims and the names and addresses of
their Solicitors if any to William Hercules O’Flaherty
and James Roberton Craig of Richards Buildings,
Currie Street Adelaide the Liquidators of the above-
named Company; and if so required by notice _in
writing from the said Liquidators are by their Solici-
tors or otherwise to prove their said debts or claims
at the office of the said Liquidators at such time as
shall be specified in such notice or IN DEFAULT
THEREOF they will be excluded from the benefit
of any distribution made before such debts are
proved.
Dated at Adelaide this Bth day of July, 1931.
W. L. STUART,
Master.
Legal Notice. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1605 of 1930.
Between ALMA LETITIA JANE BARRY Petitioner
And ARTHUR TOLHURST BARRY Respondent.
To ARTHUR TOLHURST BARRY late of Trangie
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALMA LETITIA
JANE BARRY has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse. AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Thirteenth day of October one thousand
nine hundred and thirty-one and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
Dated this Fifteenth day of July One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-one.
For the Registrar,
[L.S.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
McINTOSH, EMERTON & THOMAS,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, Parkes.
And at 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes .Jurisdiction.
No. 772 of 1931.
Between MAVIS JACKSON Petitioner
And LESLIE JACKSON Respondent.
To LESLIE JACKSON late of Wagga Wagga.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MAVIS JACKSON
has commenced a suit against you the said LESLIE
JACKSON in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground of your
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before (the second day, of October one thousand nine
hundred and thirty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the petition will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwithstand-
ing. A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
Dated this sixth day of July one thousand nine
hundred and thirty-one.
For the Registrar,
C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
COLIN ROBERTSON,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
19 Hunter Street, Sydney.
jiticm-J
I MEDICINAL
i
Busy Hands Kept
Soft and Smooth
By Daily Use of
Cuticura
Soap
Soap Is. Ointment la. and 2a. Talcum
la. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: ft. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S.W.
Melbourne
Chatter
Ten Rooms
P[?] C[?]
Buckley [?]Nu[?] [?]
S[?]
The attendance at Caulfield on Saturday
was only fair, and though the weather was
fine there was a freshness in the breeze that
made wintry wear imperative. Some parti-
cularly comfy fur coats were sported,
amongst the wearers being Mrs. Richard
Linton, Mrs. Murray H’effernan, Mrs.
Middows, Mrs. W. J. Wearne and Mrs. W.
Mortill. Mrs, J. S. Feehan displayed a
smart tweed coat in grey and black fleck
with a big collar of snow lynx-fur. Susie
Tolhurst was there in frock and, hat of corn-
flower-blue and white tweed, receiving con-
gratulations on her golf win. In the com-
mittee ladies’ box were Mrs. Ben Chaffey,
Mrs. Merson Cooper, accompanied by Mrs.
Philip Cell, and June Baillieu, who was
with Mrs. W. L. Baillieu, whose ensemble
suit and felt hat were of mastic tone. With
the Baillieus was an English visitor, Mrs.
Clare Robertson. Beth Stuart, from the
Gippsland Lakes district, was in fine tweed
in fawn and brown tones with blending felt
hat. Her engagement to Noel Russell, of
Barunah Plains, was announced a few days
ago. Mrs. James Purves and Valerie; Marie
Mackinnon, suited in a tiny check design of
sulphur and black; Mrs. C. J. Ahern; Kath-
leen Ahern, in powder : blue cloth costume
and felt hat; and Mrs. Esmond Downey,
whose sapphire-blue suit was trimmed with
black astrachan, were others who watched
the racing.
Golf enthusiasts have been spending most
of their daylight hours at the Metropolitan
Club links watching the Victorian women’s
championship contests, from which Susie
Tolhurst emerged the winner for the third
time in succession, the symbol of her success
being a very pretty gold and and enamel
medallion brooch. The championship cup,
which can never be won outright, is the
silver vase originally awarded for the Aus-
tralian championship. The tussle between
Miss Tolhurst and Mona MacLeod for the
title provided a thrilling battle. A feature
of this year’s tourney was a match for
women over 50, styled the veterans’ cham-
pionship, which was won by Mrs. Fred Fair-
bairn, mother of Mrs. Alex. Russell, one of
our star golfers, and of Mrs. Robert Landale.
The P.L.C. Old Collegians’ Association had
its reunion, which was attended by three
hundred, at Bibron’s. Seventeen debs, were
presented to the president of the 0.C.A.,
Mrs. E. S. Richards, whose reseda-green
gown provided an effective background for
her presentation posy. The white-clad buds
sported florally embellished muffs of pink
and silver tissue. Among these young people
were Lilie Foletta, whose frock combined
georgette and silk lace; Evelyn Duncan,
who wore ivory taffetas with ruched frills ;
and xllison Johnson, whose Eton crop
appeared above a swathed robe of satin.
Doris Moore, one of the dance secretaries,
wore black georgette and her black tulle
muff bore a spray of white camellias. Bur-
neice Swaine, her co-worker, associated deep
pink camellias with a beige lace frock that
had a gleam of gold beneath. Among those
at the chief table were Miss J. A. Laing,
president of P.L.C. Club; Anne Fortune, the
sec. of the club; Essie Mollison, secretary,
Miss H. A. Thomas, treasurer, and Mrs. A. L.
Abbot, vice-president of the 0.C.A., the last-
named in dark green lace; Mrs. Colin Mac-
donald, in flowered chiffon; Miss Frances
Fraser; Mrs. I. H. Moss, in ruby-hued georg-
ette ; and Miss L. Kellet. Mrs. Tremaine
Park danced in pale green satin; Elma
Watson combined a black and white bead
necklace and black gloves with a white satin
gown; Cynthia Cohen was all blue tulle frills,
topped by a tiny velvet jacket of the same
hue.
The Uni. engineering students staged
their hop at St. Ivilda Plaza. The “ ’Var-
sity Beauty Ballet” performed some bur-
lesque dances, and Leslie Parish played tricks
with electricity of high voltage. The chair-
man of the Engineering Students’ Club,
Thomas Barclay, was host, and among
special guests were Prof. Payne and his
wife, she in dahlia-hued velvet; Prof. E.
Brown and his wife, known professionally
as Dr. Vera Scantlebury, who mingled two
blues in her georgette gown and velvet cape;
Prof. W. N. Kernot. who succeeds Prof.
Payne; Mr. and Mrs. Errol Darwin and the
Percival Thompsons.
The ball of the 24th Battalion Kooyong
Infantry took place at Camberwell Town
Hall. Twelve debutantes in frilled white
chiffon, carrying crimson posies, made curt-
sies to Lt.-Col. Savige and to Mrs. Savige..
who was gowned in scarlet satin. Among
the guests were Mayor Mahony, of Box
Hill, and Mrs. Mahony, Mrs. Richard Lin-
ton, whose gown combined shades of gold
and brown, and Lt.-Col. and Mrs. Moss.
St. Pat’s Old Collegians’ Association held
its hop at St. Kilda Plaza. White and blue
balloons floated over the supper tables, and
the froeking was colorful, reds, greens and
pinks being more popular than whites and
blacks. The president, F. F. Clausen, with
his wife, whose black lace gown was brightened
by a bouquet and shoulder spray of peach
blossoms and pansies, gave a greeting hand
to official guests, who included representa-
tives of kindred associations. The rectors
of St. Patrick’s and Xavier Colleges and
Father Murphy, of Newman, were there.
The president of the Old Xaverians, Dr. J.
Clarebrough, was accompanied by his wife,
-whose vellum-tinted satin gown was embroid-
ered in a design of roses. Among the femi-
nine dancers were Mrs. Ernest Jones, in
black velvet with a sparkle of diamente;
Nancy Baird, who had a black feather fan
as an accessory to a frock of pale pink
georgette; Mrs. Philip Baillie, in black lace;
Mrs. M. Brosnan, also in black, who was
accompanied by a party of young people;
Mrs. Maurice McGillicuddy; Mrs. R. P.
Clerehan and Mrs. Prowse, who brought her
three daughters. The night was freezingly
cold, and the new coats were worn with
frocks of a filmy nature. Betty Cleary
sported an ermine edging on bodice and
sleeves of her apple-green velvet frock. The
halo flower-wreath was favored by many.
The Alliance Francaise celebrated France’s
national day with a dance in the lower
chamber of the Town Hall, the dark panel-
ling making an effective background for the
Tricolor and the Iceland poppies that decked
the supper tables. Madame Vanderkelen
danced in pale green cr§pe satin, with a short
coat of bronze sequins; Madame Cockerton,
the hon. sec., in white crgpe romaine; and
Mrs. Leon Jona’s apple-green gown was
traced with crystal beads. Madame E. Gay,
vice-president, was in black-grounded floral
chiffon; and Audrey Poolman in lacquer-red
chiffon. Among the guests were the French
Consul, M. Forcioli, Vice-Consul P. Marcus;
Miss Marcus, in figured-blue chiffon; Mrs. G.
Chirnside, whose blue lace gown was allied
to a> red-and-gold brocaded coat; Dr. and
Mrs. Fleming Dunstan and Mrs. W. Mortill.
Broothorn here pictures Mrs. A. M. Kauff-
mann. who under her maiden name of Linda
Phillips has
p u blished
“Songs of the
Outback” and
“Bush Lyrics.”
Though she
had a ground-
ing in com-
position as a
student under
Fritz H'art, she
is almost self-
taught. She
lias written
for piano,
violin and
orchestra. One
of her most
popular works
is a setting
for choir of
“The Lake
Isle of Innis-
free,” which
was effectively
given the other day by the Heidelberg Musi-
cal Society. Pianist Misclia Levitzki was
much interested in Mrs. Kauffmann’s com-
positions, and took away some of her piano-
forte pieces.
An advance show of summer gowns at
Myers’ indicated that little capes and
coats will be as necessary as the dress
itself. These additions furnish the two-in-one
gown, for day or night wear, differing some-
what from last year’s version of the same
idea. The frock, which is more suitable for
evening functions, has tiny sleeves —mere
verandah frills —and becomes correct day
attire when the matching covering is added.
The coats in some cases arc cut on the lines
of the old hug-me-tight dressing jacket—
dainty bits of things that rarely dip below
the waist-line, and very often have enormous
sleeves of the kimono type. The cape is a
mere tippet, with double- or triple-scalloped
frills. A black chiffon gown with a cape
of black taffeta will be the very height of
smartness when the snow melts on the
highlands. Not entirely out of fashion
yet are ensembles with lengthier, coats
collared in fur of the exact tint of
the material. On view were some
smart tailored C9at-and-skirt costumes of
heavy crepe de Chine, Canton cr§pe and fine-
quality marocain. One of these suits, of
golden-brown hue, went with a white silk
jumper, adorned with pleated frills edged
with the amber shade: another outfit, of
Chinese blue with a white blouse, sported a
coat-posy of white flowers tipped with blue.
Very nice copies of these models appear in
fancy silken materials, and it looks as if
they will be rushed. Of new dress stuffs,
one that bears the name “Angels’ Food”
has a suede-like surface, and resembles a_dull-
finished marocain. From this were fashioned
two very lovely evening gowns, one an elusive
green, the other a faint pink. A novelty is
the pyjama dancing frock, the trousers being
composed of accordeon-pleated chiffon of the
exact tone of the overdress of cobwebby lace.
With nine yards of chiffon to each of the
lengthy trouser-legs, there is no hint of the
divided garment.
Mrs. Russell Jackson, of East St. Kilda,
who left to join her husband in London,
writes describing the third Court of the
season, at which three Melbournites were
presented. They were Mrs. Esmond Kier-
nan, wife of the Hon. Minister, in
duck-egg blue and silver lame; Mrs. J. J.
Byrne, of Heidelberg, in deep rose and silver
lame, with a train; and Audrey Bayley, who
chose ivory satin with a train of silver tissue
lined with lemon-colored chiffon. Marion Jones,
the Bendigo painter, was also presented at
this Court, wearing floral taffeta with a
brocade train in blue and gold. Quaint
pearl jewellery and a white feather fan were
accessories.
Mrs. Ernest
Scott, wife of
Prof. Scott,
pictured here
by Broothorn,
has charge of
the musical
programme for
the interna-
tional gala
and cabaret.
She is an ex-
cellent pian-
ist, and has
studied exten-
sively abroad.
On a recent
visit to Java
she collected
many examples
of native
melody, and
has lectured
on the sub-
ject.
The knot-tying of Phyllis, only daughter
of the Alec Adeneys, of Kew, and Dr. Robert
Blair, second son of the Rev. S. R. Blair
and Mrs. Blair, of Cororooke, took place at
the Erskine kirk. The bride’s frock was of
faintest pink chiffon, and her Limerick lace
veil descended from a wreath of orange buds.
Marie Garland attended in pale blue georg-
ette.
The announcement of the marriage in the
Isle of Wight of the Rev. 0. G. Barclay,
recently of St. Mary’s Mission, Fitzroy, and
Rosa Eliza Pryme came as a surprise to his
local flock. Mr. Barclay, who arrived in Aus-
tralia in 1911, and began his ministrations in
Hughenden (Queensland), moving two years
later to Melbourne, was a son of the late
Florence Barclay, the novelist. His bride is
an English girl, who came to Melbourne a
lew years ago, and was in the note-printing
branch of the Commonwealth Bank. She
returned to her homeland a couple of months
ago. She was a member of St. Mary’s
congregation, but no one guessed she was
destined to marry “Father” Barclay.
Feminine fancy in the way of footwear
for night and afternoon functions runs to
huge buckles upon shoes of the “court”
variety. Glistening ones adorn evening slip-
pers, and those of steel provide a subdued
gleam in the daylight. With dressy frocks
buckled shoes look attractive, but they seem
out of place linked to a tailored suit.
“Highlights Revue,” which had a season
at the Playhouse, helped three or four hospi-
tals. Ballet costumes ranged from billowy
skirts of white-and-pink tulle to the most
abbreviated attire, and the stage settings
were effective, among the best being those
for a Spanish operetta written and arranged
by Hugh Huxham. Also there was a charm-
ing beach scene, associated with a display of
chic bathing suits and the girls inside them.
Byrl Walkley sang “The Moonlight Waltz”
and “You Are Free,” Bonnie and Gerald,
very young, danced cleverly, and the Voco-
Vocalists and the Cairns Memorial Dram.
Soc. took part. Hugh Huxham directed the
show and conducted the orchestra.
Captain Pope,, R.N., and his wife, with
their two schoolgirl daughters, leave for
Sydney this week, travelling by motor. The
captain has become “owner” of the Alba-
tross, and his wife and family will reside
at Double Bay, where they have rented a
house. There was much farewelling of the
couple, and their eldest daughter had a
good-bye gathering of members of the Junior
Red Cross of St. Margaret’s School, of which
she was secretary.
South Australia’s note:—
The Alliance Franchise had a cafe dansant at the
Piccadilly, North-terrace, the other night. Frank
Moulden (Consul for France) and his lady were pre-
sent. There were several vocal numbers, but the star
turn of the evening was a special dance by Miss Mina
Bauer and Mr. Walter Dasborough. It was a French
conception, “La Fontaine Enchanfcee,” almost too
French for some of the older A.F.-ers. Mr. Das-
borough collapsed from a chill and brandy had to
be administered. The rest of the evening was spent
in less hectic dancing.
The graduate members of the Adelaide University
Union are arranging a welcome to Sir Charles and
Lady Martin and Professor and Mrs. W. K. Hancock
in the University Refectory on August 6.
The annual Bankers’ Ball is always one of the
social events and the Palais Royal was crowded on
Thursday night. The froeking was especially smart.
At the Theatre Royal this week the musical
comedy “Dutini” is being staged for the benefit of
charities. The play is by Edith Aird, and the music
and lyrics by Tom King and Jack Fewster. Mile
Marcele Berardi takes the leading rSle and Thelnw
Baulderstone, producer, has the part of the Hindoo
maid Dutini.
Westralia wades in:—
The Uni. Engineers never lack inventive decoration
for their dances. At this year’s shivoo, held under
the old Shenton roof-tree, the orchestra sat in a
smugglers’ cave. A Zeppelin poised above the dancers’
heads was bombed by a cruising ’plane, disgorging
loads of novelties from its injured interior. Mrs.
Bowden, wearing black taffetas strewn with posies,
came with the Dean of the Faculty; Mrs. de Courcy
Clarke chose black georgettes; Mrs. Fox was in pale
pink; Prof. Frankel’s better half, another devotee of
black, brought Miss Frankel, in sky-blue tulle;
parchment satins were draped about Mrs. Alan Pre-
shaw; Joan Church fluttered shell-pink chiffons.
Joan Stowe black laces, and Ray McClintock del-
phinium moire; golden taffetas rustled in Barbara
Prisk’s wake; Greta Cockram draped herself with
velvet mellow as tawny port; Margaret Summerville
and Grace Nunn wore powdery blues, Grace Drum-
mond oyster satins, and Margaret Leckie ruched
ivory taffetas.
The L. A. B. Club turned its fingers to a card
shuffle one evening in the Karrakatta Club. Mrs. Cecil
Mason did the honors in a gown and jacket of berry-
red velvet. The Keith Cummings couple, who carried
off the booty, Joy Fordham, Daisy Main, Miss J. L.
Young, Dr. Battye, George Haywood and Mrs. Cham-
bers were in the assemblage.
Some years ago the Animal Ball was the most
thrilling and crowded event of the season in Govern-
ment House ballroom. Nowadays Temple Court is
more to the taste of the just-risen generation and
this year’s effort to replenish the coffers of the
S.P.C.A. was held there. Fancy dresses were few, but
Helen and Lesley Vincent aired a Victorian gown of
much beflouneed organdie and a French artist’s
tunic and green trousers. Miss Northmore, sister of
the Acting-Governor, wearing mint-green georgettes,
accompanied the Kerr-Pearse couple with their
daughter Elizabeth and military nephew from
India. Mrs. Keall wore pink and blue
georgettes; metal tissue glistened beneath Mrs.
Sweeting’s gold ninon; blue and petunia
shades were merged upon Marjorie Butler’s tight-
fitting garment; Dorothy James wore tangerine dashed
with black; Mrs. Norman Finey’s frock was a
horizon-blue wraith; primrose taffetas and tulle
clad Jean Wingrove; Mrs. Kitching was a tall figure
in flowered chiffons; frills of blue lace hitched to a
silver corsage was Ethel Gordon’s choice.
Dentist Maisie Campbell invited a bevy of girls
to a game of bridge and a brew of tea on Saturday
afternoon in the Karrakatta Club’s winter garden.
Wee bowls of violets and tall vases of wattle were
interspersed among the blue china on the long tea
table. The hostess appeared in a nutmeg-brown rig.
Joan Good, Marjorie Beresford, Gladys Hadley, the
Oakley and the Randell lassies were among the
players.
Tassie’s P.S.:—
There was a complete absence of frill and
ceremony at the opening of Parliament. Knight
John Evans donated to the city’s unemployed the
sum usually spent in refreshments for guests. Guests
on this occasion there were none.
Mrs. Harry Hamilton has been renewing old ties
in Hobart before starting for Borneo to be present
at the marriage of her son Robert to the daughter
of Col. Noble.
The late Professor Alexander McAulay married
Ida Butler, member of one of our oldest families.
Prof. Leicester McAulay is following in his father’s
distinguished footsteps, and there are two daughters,
Mrs. Scriven, of Sydney, and Miss Ida McAulay.
A King Island wedding was that of Winifred
Morrison and Douglas Bowling. The bride’s frock,
of white georgette and silver lace, was topped by
a coronet of orange blosson holding the long veil
in place. Margaret Link ’maided in heliotrope
crepe, and little sister Nancy Morrison was cushion-
bearer in pale blue. One member of the pioneer
Bowling family was present—the ’groom’s grand-
mother, aged 86.
J. Glanville Bishop waved his baton over the
Hobart Symphony Orchestra at the concert given at
the Town Hall, where Dvorak’s Carnival Overture
and the Bridal Procession from “Lohengrin” were suc-
cessfully mastered. There was an enthusiastic audi-
ence in spite of the Arctic cold.
Novelist Roy Bridges and his sister Hilda have
settled down for an indefinite time at Woods Farm,
near Sorell, a property recently left them by an
uncle. Bridges has become one of the Speck’s best-
known writers.


kvi?V
mm
COQ <-
II
w
rT~-~i
Here’s Food for Body and Brain!
The food value in Tooth s KB Lager is obtained
from the rich, ripe hops and pure barley malt
which go into its brewing. That’s why it’s a
food beverage as well as a drink. Pour out two
to-night!


m
Pip
mmm
iimmm
wm
s3f
r
m.
S:?>:
M
wm
m
mm
m
m
m
m *
r \
&
Grid has no tenors for the car
which always nuts on COR
Above the snow line—or below —C.O.R users are the
envy of other motorists. For they alone enjoy the
instant start —plus power for the heavy mountain grades.
frN EMP/ftf
ffl
ntpß.o®
of
BRITISH MOTOR SPIRIT N2I
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government & Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.) 317 Pitt St., Sydney.
Agents for Country Districts. ------ DALGETY & CO. LIMITED.
C.I. 6.36.31
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
ŵ
"GARDEN HONEY,” AN OLD SYDNEY
IDENTITY. [9/8/’90.]
Mr. G. R. Sims writes to an English paper
to state that his drama the “Silver Falls”
is founded on a real, live incident which took
place in Australia, or which someone stuffed
him with as a real Australian incident. Some-
where in that foggy epoch vaguely described
as long ago a bushranger planted his golden
plunder underneath a tree, and then went
away and forgot it. Bushrangers always did
that sort of thing. They never came back
for the coin, or else they came back and
couldn’t find it, and after muttering murky
curses at midnight’s mournful hour they
would stalk away to steal more money, and
plant it in the same miserable fashion, and
forget where it was with the same cow-headed
infamy as before, and then mutter more
curses and stalk away some more. Anyhow,
this bushranger never came back, but on his
death-bed he handed his executor (this is
the first bushranger who ever had an executor,
by the way, though lots of them had execu-
tioners) a sealed packet, in which he was
told to go to a certain wild spot where
dark pines grew, and then take the shadow
of a giant tree as the full moon fell upon
it at 2 a.m. on the second Tuesday after
the first Wednesday in the month with five
Sundays in it, and follow that shadow for
30 paces in an E.N.-E. direction, and then
stand on one leg till an eclipse of the sun
took place at the same time as an earth-
quake, conjointly with a drought and an
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. On the
arrival of this epoch, he was to dig, dig, dig,
and keep on digging till he found the spoil.
In some respects, of course, the sealed packet
is rather thin, but that doesn’t matter. The
ordinary bushranger doesn’t leave a sealed
packet—he merely says to his unhanged
mate: “Bill, yon was always a blessed idot
and a dashed scoundrel into the bargain, and
if I was well enough I’d kick you from
Sheol to breakfast, but you can take my
boots and my clay pipe when I’m gone, and
go to blazes with them,” and these remarks
are his last will and testament. But, any-
how, the executor in the present case went
and dug and dug till at last he began to
turn up thousands and thousands and thou-
sands of old, tarnished, muddy sovereigns, and
then he went away with a drayload of trea-
sure and lived respectably ever afterwards.
And then Mr. Sims seems to believe this
story, too, which shows that faith is not yet
dead, and that hope and charity have not
altogether departed from earth. [23/3/’B9.]
A few years ago it was currently reported
in society that the beauteous Lady Dudley
(one of the lovely Moncrieff girls) used black
silk or satin sheets on her bed for the pur-
pose of showing to greater advantage the
delicacy of her skin; and, though the ex-
tremely limited nature of the audience under
such circumstances is an undoubted disad-
vantage, the idea is becoming extremely
popular. Black silk sheets and even black
underclothing are now all the rage, and the
blondes of fashionable life go in for black
pillow-slips to show off their tresses to advan-
tage. The high-born dames of Australia have
not quite caught on to this idea yet, but
no doubt it will soon take root, and then
there will be a boom in black silk, and the
crest with the public-house rampant will
shine with unwonted lustre on the new back-
ground. [l9/l/’B9.j
The first woman who complained of her
Lot was turned into a pillar of salt.
[27/4/’B9.]
As far as can be gathered from an occa-
sional cablegram which comes this way, the
London press still feels hurt at the sight of
the wild, ungainly fowl which camps on the
twopenny stamp of N. S. Wales, and the
tramp of that misshapen rooster across their
correspondence sounds ominous in their ears.
The “European Mail” has been interview-
ing “representative Australians” with a view
to having the bird shovelled away, but it
has gained a certain amount of comfort out
of the assurance, freely given on all sides,
that the animal with the gum on the back
of him is not significant of any desire to
upheave the British throne; and “Truth”
has “commented severely” on the presence
of the unclean thing, price twopence. In
high military circles there seems to be a
growing tendency to object to the humpback
songster of the brown Australian plains, and
the loyal population of the British Isles
wants to know why New South Wales can’t
lick the same old stamp which has so long
braved the battle and the breeze. The “un-
settled state of Europe” is the ostensible
reason of the movement, but this pretence is
too thin. There is going to be gore all along
of that blue emu, and the bird that Parkes
drew for use in the Post Office is tending
towards the edge of a precipice which will
sw r allow him up. [6/4/’B9.]
Australian mining swindlers are up to
nearly every dodge under the sun, but here
is a distinctly English scheme that has not
yet been worked here. Lately a broking
firm drew a hundred cheques, each for the
sum of £540, all made out in the same name
and duly crossed, and sent them out to a
hundred different investors. With each
cheque, a notice was enclosed to the effect,
“This is in settlement of your profit on your
share of £5O in our syndicate 10061” Th;
following day the recipients of these cheques
received a telegram from the same firm say-
ing : “Cheque sent you yesterday in mis-
take. Please return.” And when the firm
prospectused syndicate 1007 they were fairly
swamped with applications for shares.
[27/4/m]
Up north a goldmine was sold recently
for £20,000. The shares are now selling at
a penny apiece. A shilling a dozen! No
objection to stamps. [2O/4/’B9.]
FATE.
Two shall be born the whole wide world'
apart,
And speak in different tongues and have no
thought
Each of the other’s being, and no heed;
Yet these o’er unknown seas to unknown
lands
Shall cross, escaping wreck, defying death,
And all unconsciously shape every act
And bend each wandering step unto this end,,
That one day out of darkness they shall
meet,
And read life’s meaning in each other’s eyes.
And two shall walk some narrow way of life
So closely side by side, that should one turn
Ever so little space to left or right
They needs must stand acknowledged face
to face;
Yet these with groping hands that never
clasp,
With wistful eyes that never meet, and lips
Calling in vain on ears that never hear,
Shall wander all their weary day unknown
And die unsatisfied. And this is Fate!


Your face is pasty. Your
eyes are heavy. Life is
one constant effort. Is it
unsuspected constipation?
It must be obvious to any thinking person that crude and violent
purgatives can neither prevent nor cure constipation. Such
drastic, harmful measures merely shock the system into temporary
obedience. The safe, sufficient precaution is through the natural
pleasant means, happily made possible for us by Eno's "Fruit Salt."
mm
1
m
inr
Eno puts forward no false preten-
sions which insult both common-
sense and science. It merely does
what it claims to do—keeps the
foodways of the body always
sweet and clean, through its
power to retain in the food canal
the necessary fluid to dilute and
dismiss all poisonous waste. Take
Eno's "Fruit Salt" first thing every
morning—and avoid all harsh and
habit-forming substitutes. They
do more harm than good.
qgfo wor J s Sno and ''&ruit Salt” are registered trade marks. Sales Agents: ‘Xsihe LBritish < 3 l . dlitchie & Go. £td. Sydney
ENO S 4 FRUIT SAIT 4
Cocoanuts for Wowsers.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD’S
STORY OF THE COMPANY THAT MAISTER
SCOTS DIDN’T FLOAT.
THE Bible-writer whose best expression
of a lust for revenge was the condition
of a lioness robbed of her whelps has
surely never seen an avaricious man missing
a profit. Catermore is the avaricious man,
and his rage at finding that Blundell had
left him out of a good thing was equalled
oniy by his resolve to get into it, through the
fanlight or by the keyhole or under the door.
If not by any of these ways, then by the
window or the ventilator. He told Blundell
of it. and Blundell told Frank Porter and
Whaley, who each threw a careless ten
pounds into the Papuan Land Syndicate.
Blundell pointed Catermore out to Porter
and Whaley on the side-walk before the
principal entrance of the Caravanserai —a
little mean-faced man with the virtuous nose
of indigestion. He was shawm on the cheeks
and under the chin, the greying beard thereby
taking the shape of a long O, as if it grew
that way to look like a perpetual exclama-
tion on the wickedness of the world. H'e
wore great round shell-rimmed spectacles, as
if more for disguise than easy vision ; and
the two goggle O’s and the large O of the
hair upon his face represented the sign of a
pawnbroker. Yet Catermore was not Jew
but Christian—one of those Christians who
believe in faith because their good works
have run down. He was a drab man and
his soul, if he had one, must have been
drab, too; he sang his Christianity through
his nose every Sunday in a drab suburban
church, and loved money, believing that
Christ is dead.
Blundell, a hearty, fleshy man, elated a
little by the luck of the Papuan Land Syndi-
cate. told of Catermore with scorn.
“If I thought he was following me round,”
said Blundell, “I’d punch him on the whis-
kers and destroy that pawnbroker’s sign of
his. He’s chewed over it so long he really
thinks he’s been injured.”
“Was he in the syndicate?”
“Never. Y’see, George Scott —know
George Scott?”
“Promoter of companies, isn’t he?”
“Yes, gets an idea, companies it, and
takes it abroad. There’S always something
happens to it—but not to this one. It’s too
sound. Y’see, he struck the idea to get in
quick before the Government altered the
Papuan land laws—just in time it was, Loo.
Y’see, under the old law you could get ten
thousand acres on perpetual lease, no rent
first ten years, no survey fees; after ten
years you had to show improvements—plant-
ing of rubber or eocoanuts, just like that.
He asked me if I knew good land there,
and I did; so. we formed the syndicate—
capital, two thousand in ten-pound shares.
We got a hundred shares between us.”
“Profits for the brilliant idea of asking us
for a tenner each?”
“No, more than that. There was my
knowledge of the land ; and I had to go there
and see it personally; and George had to
go off to London with five hundred for ex-
penses. I got two-fifty for exes., and it
cost all that; so the secretary was left with
about a hundred, after registration was paid,
to carry on the office.”
“There’s not much left to quarrel over;
but where does Catermore come in?”
“There’s the land to quarrel over; ten
thousand acres of the best land in the world,
and Catermore doesn’t come in anywhere.
Y’see, I got twenty contributing shares to
place among my friends —you took one and
Whaley took one and so on. I was left
with two, and wanted to close up, so I
offered the two to Catermore. He fooled
about for two days, and then he said ’No.'
and I said ‘Some other time, then.’ I
didn’t mean some other time for those par-
ticular shares, but for some other thing. A
few days after I left for Papua, and when
the shares went to a bit of a premium he
wrote me he’d take the shares, and told
people he had ’em. And now he’s making
trouble because I wouldn’t give him the
smell of a share for all the rice in China.’'
“Well, he can do nothing.”
“I know he can’t, except make himself
disliked ; but we’ve got a brother-wowser of
his as chairman of the board, and he can
make things uncomfortable at meetings.
Imagine me working for that! I left
Samarai in a crazy launch in a living gale
blowing the knots out of the deck planking,
and I was weatherbound at a mission at
Milne Bay until I felt like a galvanised-iron
tabernacle in a back street, and I walked
up the river about nineteen thousand miles,
and eight thousand of it was in silt to my
knees and ten thousand of it in water to my
neck, and beyond Damiana village I saw the
A 1 country—black soil sectioned by the
river until it showed seventy feet deep; ten
thousand acres of the best. And every inch
of that river bank carries a million leeches.
On the way back again in the oil launch
Three-quarter Bedstead I was nearly
wrecked again, and that’s as often as Paul
was at Tarshish or Joppa, or whatever the
chart said; and now that wowser with the
ring-whiskers wants to suck the little blood
the leeches left! The leeches weren't
Christians, but they did the fair thing, and
dropped off when they were full. But you
might as well try to find the Lost Rivers as
satisfy Catermore.”
“So our little investment looks good, does
it?”
“It does, Frank—if Scott comes to light in
time with the capital.”
“Talking of capital, how much has the
syndicate got?”
Blundell didn’t like the question—he appa-
rently shirked asking it of himself—but he
replied hopefully, “About a hundred and
fifty. But Scott’s been in Scotland four
months, and he ought to be coming to light
any minute.”
“A hundred and fifty, and who’s the secre-
tary ?”
“Macpherson.”
“Allan Macpherson?”
“Yes, that’s him. Red-nosed chap.”
“But not the same sort of red nose as
Catermore’s.”
“No, he’s a better man than Catermore.
Not too mean to take a chance.”
“Or a drink. A hundred and fifty, and
Allan Macpherson’s salary! Two into one
won’t go, old man.”
“It’s all right, Frank. Scott will have
cabled completion before we’re right up
against it.”
But the statutory meeting of the share-
holders came without any conclusive cable
from Scott, who was still talking cocoanuts
and spicy breezes and coral reefs in the
sleets of Buchanan-street, Glasgow.
Whaley and Porter were rounded up on
the morning of the meeting by Blundell,
and carried off to die meeting to “make a
show,” at which reason Frank Porter replied
that it didn’t sound much like shareholders
being wildly enthusiastic.
They found Catermore there, he having
qualified as a shareholder apparently for
malevolence more than for profit; and there
were the directors, including the chairman,
who might have been a larger copy of Cater-
more. And there was Allan Macpherson, of
the red nose of unvirtuous oriein, made
redder by his red neck-scarf. Also he seemed
swollen with a new importance and lie spoke
the chairman’s lines and his own, too.
“Maister Chairrman and gentlemen. The
repot an’ bal’nce-sheet are before ye, or at
least they’re not before ye, but the chairrman
has them. Ye’ll ken right weel that the
preliminary expenses have been so great
that —aya —-the fun’s in hand amoont to
ahoot a hunder poon. Of which I might
tell ye thot —aya —aboot eighty-fower poon
is owin’ to me for o-ffice rent an’ sal’ry an’- —
aya—petty carsh. Cablegrarms have been
ower-heavy by reason of Maister Scote. who.
as ye ken weel, is the co-mp’ny’s—aya —re-
presentative in Glasgie. After readin’ _ the
adver-fise-ment convenin’ the meetin’, Maister
Chairrman, I will wi’ yower permecssion
read a verra impoartant cablegrarm which
has been sent tae me by Maister Scote, who
is, as ye well, know —aya —ower representa-
tive in Scoteland. Ah may say in passing,
Maister Chairrman, that he is a verra guid
representative tew —-energetic an’ offable and
wi’ a keen sense of money vallies. He won’
spend the co-mp’ny’s money wastefully.”
“The company has no money,” squeaked
Catermore.
“That’s a verra, verra narrow-minded view
to tak’,” replied Macpherson with great
dignity. “The eo-mp'ny may have money at
any taime, and in such a poseetion the vair-
tues of Maister Scote will stand the co-mp’ny
in good stead. I will now, Maister Chairr-
man, with yower permission, read the cable-
gram! refurred to.”
The chairman tried to get a word in edge-
ways, and the secretary made him bite it off
at the initial.
“Ah may say, Maister Chairrman, before
preceedin’ wi’ the readin’ o’ the cablegrams
—I may say that the decodation of the cable-
gram gave me an anxious taime. Owin’ to
the similarity o’ code-worrds a pairfec’ly
erroneous impression might be gi’en to ye;
but by the exercise of sagareity an’ the
callin’ inta play o’ my wide experience, I
hae made the decodation in pairrfect form.”
“He’s had a few this morning,” whis-
pered Blundell apologetically.
“Thank God for that,” said the laughing
Whaley. “It’s worth the money. I
wouldn’t have missed this for all the lead
in Broken Hill.”
The chairman tried to speak and got as
far as “Ah” and the secretary applied
the closure and carried it himself.
“Excuse me, Maister Chairrman. I will
now proceed to read the decodation. The
cablegram, Maister Chairrman, as I have
said, comes from Maister Scote ower —aya
—representative in Scoteland.”
“Oh, get on,” squeaked Catermore; “get
on.”
“Maister Chairrman, I must ask ye to
protect me in the performance o’ my secre-
tarial jooties. I will na brook intairrup-
tion when the most important poseetion in
the co-mp’ny’s hist’ry is pro-bably imminent.
The cablegram from Maister Scote came by
submarine cable, arrivin’ here in the early
morn, by reason of the fact that Australia
is'some howers aheid o’ London time —nine
hours forty meenets to be co-rect. This
cablegrarm, being decoded, as I tell ye, is
signed ‘Scote.’ ”
“Oh, get on, man—get on.”
“In my own guid taime. Intairruptions
at such a vital stage of the hist’ry o’ the
eo-mp’ny will have only the effect o’
delayin’ the pronouncement.”
“For George’s sake, don’t interrupt,” said
Blundell to Catermore. “Do you want to
preach every day?”
Catermore regarded him venomously, but
did not speak, and the monologist, who
apparently believed that he was merely
supplying his quota to the general conversa-
tion, proceeded.
“Maister Scote’s cablegram. Maister
Chairrman and gentlemen, is this —I'll gie
ye the exact worrds o’ the message. Ah
hae nothin’ to conceal and I tell ye all there
is in the cablegram wi’oot fear or favor or
any respect o’ pairrsons.”
“Oh, gracious me!” wailed Gatermore,
“will he never say it?”
“Ah pass the reflections on myself wi •
scorrn,” said the secretary, his red nose
flaming indignation, “but I willna pass the
reflections on the co-mp’ny by a man who
has bote a miserable share for the purr-
pose o’ wrecMn’ the concerrn.. . .Na, na,
Maister Chain-man, fayer’s faycr a’ the
worrld o’er, and I intend to hae ma say
oot —to the end —bitter or sweet as that
end may be. Despisin’ then, gentlemen, the
author o’ the purrposeful intairruptions,
Maister Scote says this”
“At last, at last,” said Frank Porter.
“Murder will out.”
“Maister Potrter, Ah thocht yew wud
realise the imporrtance o’ silence in the
auditorium. Weel, weel, no malice, Maister
Porrter. The decodation reads: ‘Members
of the Stock Exchange with whom I have
been negotiating decided to float company.’ ”
“That’s fine,” said Blundell; “he’s done
it. Good luck to him, lie’s done it.”
“Loud cheers,” said Frank Porter. “As
soon as it’s through I’ll take a year’s holi-
day and see our property.”
“Patience, gentlemen, patience. The cable-
gram! continyews: ‘to float co-mp’ny with
adequate workin’ capital’ ”
“Hear, hear.”
“Patience a meenut. ‘Wi’ adequate
workin’ capital, pro-vided’ ”
“Oh!”
“ ‘provided assistance given at yower
end. Suggest, chairman and secretary should
interview Prime Minister an’ get -Common-
wealth to guaranty fower per cent, on the
capital. When this done can complete.
Signed Scote.’ ”
The six shareholders talked at once.
Catermore squeaked: “Foolishness and
waste of time!” Blundell said “Damned
rot.” Whaley laughed uproariously, and the
deep voice of Porter as an undersong said:
“Oh, be damned —does he take us for fools?”
“Government give us the land and
guarantee four per cent, on it? He’s crazy!”
“If the Government will guarantee four
per cent;. I’ll guarantee to find pearls in my
bathroom.”
“Four per cent.? Four hells!”
They drowned the voluble Macpherson, and
left him and Catermore and the bewildered
chairman to the other business, and trooped
down the office stairs and over to the Cara-
vanserai, laughing. Although they knew it
not, their laughter killed the Papuan Land
Company, ridicule being fatal to finance in
its beginnings as to reputation in its prime.
A year later, meeting Blundell and not-
ing that Catermore passed as they talked,
(Continued on. next page.)


Backache
IS YOUR LIFE A
DAILY TORTURE?
Short, sharp stabbing pains in the back when you rise
from bed; real torture to straighten the body after stooping;
you say: Oh, this terrible backache!” Do you know that the
painful symptoms you complain of are sure signs of dangerous
kidney trouble? Just as a “creaky” door tells you there is
something wrong, so painful, chronic backache, stabbing-like
pains when you bend or move, a constant, “tired-out,” “too-
old” feeling, tells you there is hidden trouble in the body.
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE
OF YOUR PAIN.
Chronic backache is in all probability the start of serious
lumbago, painful rheumatism, or perhaps bladder trouble.
They all point to one thing—kidney trouble. The kidneys
are failing in their action, uric acid poisons or harmful bacteria
are accumulating in the blood, with the result that sensitive
nerves send out their S O S to the brain to ask for help—
that is why you suffer pain. Poisons are being stored up in
the blood, which, lodging in the muscles and joints, are
causing a state of inflammation. Until you prompt the kidneys
to filter out the pain-giving poisons, you cannot hope to be
rid of body and nerve-racking pains.
A A A \\ >ll l lh 111 * //A// //// ///.f. s
DeWITTS
AND BLADDER^
WMmk
WMM, i
mmm
mm
m
■
END THAT AGONISING
PAIN TO-DAY.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills have ended chronic pain and
suffering when all else has failed.
Men and women in dreadful pain
for years say “De Witt's” ended
that pain and brought them
health, strength and vigor in a
marvellously short time.
Sufferers from chronic back-
ache—there is no need to sit in
dreadful pain “wondering” if your
bod y-torturing, brain-racking
trouble can be banished. We are
convinced that, with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills taken
regularly, your suffering will
quickly end. Sold by chemists
everywhere, price 3/6 per box.
CONVINCING TESTIMONY
Mrs. Margaret Cunningham,
of 1, York Place, Rozelle, Sydney
(N.S.W.), says: “For 18 months
I suffered severely from chronic
backache, and could get no rest
at night. One day I saw in the
newspaper an advertisement con-
cerning De Witt’s Pills, so I
thought I would buy some. Two
bottles were all that was neces-
sary to bring me complete
relief
Mrs. L. A. Bulley, 93 Chelten-
ham Road, Burwood (N.S.W.),
says; “I cannot speak too highly
of De Witt’s Pills, as when I
started them for kidney trouble
I had been ordered an operation
and refused. Then I was recom-
mended to give ‘De Witt’s’ a fair
trial, which I did and got relief
at once. I am now in perfect
health.”
E. l ’ aak Porter asked of Macpherson and then
“The Wowser “with 0 " the Pawnbroker’s
Sign got it at the last.”
“He did, now!”
“He and the chairman—they bought it
for the debts of the company. Directors had
powers to sell to anybody.”
“And what are they doing with it?”
. “ Making ifc good - A wowsers’ company
has lt: ' Catermore floated it in the vestry.
They re planting in a big way.”
“Cocoanuts for wowsers!” said Frank
Porter. “But we had a laugh for our money
if we didn’t have a run for it.”
Marriage.
WHEREIN E. V. TIMMS
INTRODUCES EXODUS BARRENHE AD
lIEPPLEBLOOM.
Exodus barrenhead HEPPLE-
BLOOM, diminutive, faultlessly attired,
financial, looked at his wrist-watch as
he walked along Pitt-street. He had just
returned from the country. He paused, and,
to the great annoyance of impatient pedes-
trians, placed the suitcase he was carrying
squarely in the middle of the footpath, re-
moved his pincenez, and polished the lenses
vigorously with his silk handkerchief. Pre-
sently the dull, misty glasses glinted to his
satisfaction, and he clipped them firmly on
his thin, sensitive nose. Then, and only then,
did he pick up the suitcase and stare about
him. Eight o’clock. He was hungry. He was
invariably so after a drink or two, and he had
had three. It would, perhaps, be better to
dine before leaving the city. After all, after a
month’s absence from home one’s dear little
wife, unprepared, of cdurse, for one’s un-
expected return, would hardly be expecting
one. No. Indeed, she might be out. Yes.
Mr. Hepplebloom nodded and smiled happily.
Thirty days? It was nothin** —she was used
to it by now. She had murmured at first,
naturally, but one’s job is one’s job—natur-
ally. H'e would dine and then go home.
Home ! Exodus Barrenhead Hepplebloom
felt his blood surge, and he stood still again
until it got a little sense. Why men re-
mained single was quite beyond his under-
standing. He chuckled, then he laughed.
There would be two pink candles under cun-
ning shades, two softly-gleaming goblets—
cut-glass, of course ! And pretty, dark-haired,
smiling Vi. There would be oysters on the
shell, and a lobster, and an amber draught
from a long-necked, laughing bottle. Vi would
gently twine her lovely arms round liis neck
—and, yes, he had better dine and order the
lobster and the oysters. Again he laughed.
The contented heart of Mr. Hepplebloom
nudged at his missing rib (figuratively speak-
ing, of course) as his dancing feet laughed
softly and guided him with a sure hand
(speaking even more figuratively) through
the rushing traffic to where the lights of
the Cafe Melange winked wickedly, invit-
ingly, mockingly, at passing Desire (I’m
not quite sure _ what that means, but it is
sufficiently fascinating for most people) and
plain married men like Exodus Barrenhead
Hepplebloom. Again he reminded himself
that he must take home the lobster, the
oysters and the long-necked bottle.
Now, it is quite unnecessary to bore you
with what Mr. Hepplebloom ate, for, apart
from the hors-d'oeuvre, the consomme, the
fish, the entree, the joint, the ice apd the
smallest cup of black coffee you ever saw, he
really consumed very little. But he did
smoke a big cigar. It stuck out from his thin
face just like the huge gun of the war-time
monitor used to stick out from its turret,
.and, like the gun, it occasionally vanished
in a coughing cloud of smoke. But, never-
theless, it was a good cigar—a Corona
Sonata, 1 think. It cost niuepence, and
took exactly an hour to exhaust itself, and
Mr. Hepplcbloom. And it is precisely because
of that —but, perhaps we’d better get on.
It is a touching tribute to our civilisa-
tion that at the end of a dinner men have
been known to speak to each other. Per-
fect strangers, too. Mr. Hepplcbloom hadn’t
the faintest idea of the name, habits, occupa-
tion, or religion of the fair young man beside
him. But he had first passed the salt, an
old-fashioned mistake, and then —a match.
That started it. In ten minutes, over some
rather choice liquor, politics, bottle-ticks and
Einstein’s theory of relativity were exhaus-
tively discussed and dismissed. But the
subject of marriage was different. Mr.
Hepplebloom knew that, after a year of
married bliss, a man could speak with autho-
rity. He did. His rhapsody blanketed even
the haunting strains of “Roses of Picardy’’
with which the orchestra, with considerable
skill, reduced the patrons to that state when
the parting with their money no longer hurt
them.
“But, perhaps, you, too, are married, sir,”
came his soothing peroration, his sharp,
slightly-Hebraic features registering a Pente-
costal humility.
The fair young man laughed. “Friend, do
I look like a goat?” he asked. “Have another
drink?”
Mr. Hepplebloom was a little hurt, but the
erupting Corona Sonata sent a kindly screen
across his face.
“Thanks—that’ll do nicely. Then I take
it you are still a bachelor? H’m. A pity. I
would advise all men to marry. Look at
me. I am married. I am happy. I love
and am loved. A contented home and a faith-
ful wife. Sir, mankind expects a lot of
good things in Heaven, hut if they get
better than that they’ll be lucky—thanks,
that’ll do.”
The nostrils of the young man twitched.
“They’ll be lucky to miss it,” he said.
“There’s a woman been pestering me to marry
her, to take her away from the humdrum
monotony of life. She is dark and pretty
and —but I beg your pardon. You are not
interested, I’m sure. Thanks, that’s
enough”
Mr. H'epplcbloom’s thin, white hand rested
gently on the other’s arm. He beamed
through his pincenez, and then straightened
it. The cigar, in the other hand, described
a glowing arc, and narrowly missed burning
a hole in the fair young man's jacket.
“Take her, sir. I’m sure—positive, in
fact —that you’d never regret it. A little
more in your glass?”
“Thanks. Oh, I don’t know. I’m having a
decent time of it—well, that is, pretty good.”
“Yes,- yes—you’ll never regret it.”
“I don’t.”
“Er—l mean marriage. Thanks, just a
small one.”
“What is that thing the orchestra is play-
ing?.... Thanks.”
“Ahup—pardon ! Fine thing that, fine
thing! ‘Roses in Shicardy’—pardon ! ‘Roses
in Picardy’! Delightful, isn’t it? As sweet
as marriage itself, sir.”
“Humph! I had no idea this marriage
business was so decent.”
“Delightful! Another little”
“Thanks.”
“Yes.”
“Do you know, you’ve half convinced me.”
“Fine—fine!” said the delighted Mr.
Hepplebloom heartily.
“Imagine it—love, lace and lobsters —
(ahup!). Pardon me. Why, sir, your glass
is empty!”
“Thanks. Now,' marriage”
“Delightful. What champagne is to the
head, sir, love and marriage are to the heart.
Delightful—ahup ! Pardon. Thanks.”
“Thanks.”
“Pleasure. Marriage is a lobster—no, no!
Take lobster home —pardon. Thanks”
“Thanks. Pm convinced. I’ll go to her.
I’ll gven marry her.”
“I knew you would —ahup!”
“Good-bye, sir—and many thanks!”
-1‘ ifc
Doubtless you have already written the rest
of the story. Your pen has travelled faster
than mine. Your fair, young man has rushed
from the Cafe Melange, burst into the un-
suspecting Hepplebloom’s sanctuary, crushed
the ecstatic Vi to his bosom, promised mar-
riage and rushed with her down to a taxi.
She left a note, of course.
Well, really, the fair young man did noth-
ing of the kind. He paused, swaying slightly,
to speak to the grinning proprietor.
‘ “Fine character, that man.” he murmured,
nodding to where Mr. Hepplebloom sat
draining the bottle. “If there were more
married men like him”
“Like who ? Oh, like Heppy, there! Oh
yes, lie’s well known here, sir.”
“I didn’t catch his name; but his wife
should be proud of him.”
“She surely should,” the proprietor agreed,
with another grin. “But Heppy hasn’t got
a wife.”
“But he”
“I know. He always does. He’s got
imagination, and it turns to marriage when
he’s drunk. After the third drink he'll
actually make you see his beautiful wife
waiting for him at home —he hasn’t got a
home, either. Heppy’s a confirmed, deter-
mined bachelor, sir—but he gets like that.
Do you think a married man would talk like
he did?”
The fair young man tottered away.
“Er—l see,” he muttered feebly. “Thanks.”
As he left the cafe Mr. Hepplebloom’s
voice came faintly to him. “- -waiter, are
you, too, a married mail?”
“Yessir—four kids, sir. Your change, sir.
Thanks.”
“N-no, I don’t want to talk to you”
This Mellow Morn.
A lazy wind among the leaves
Makes music good to hear;
The sky is flecked with drifting cloud,
And, sparkling far and near,
A rising spring-tide freshly pours
Along the channels clear.
Red cherries on an orchard slope
That faces to the sun,
Aiid dandelions through the grass
Like golden beads outrun—
All voices of the Busliland tell
Glad summer hath begun.
Away regret and common care!
Away these doubts of age!
To-day I'll scribe immortal song
Upon a splendid page!
Green Gippsland is the burning theme
That doth my muse engage.
This mellow morn I lay abed
And listened as I do
Unto the sweet familiar sounds
That ring our Bushland through—
The carols and the fluted calls
From stages lit with dew.
The magpie trilled her masterpiece,
A Melba on a tree;
Caruso from his covert twanged
An opera to me,
His tenor loud and dominant —
A lyre-bird was he.
His little brother-on a twig,
With perky cap of blue,
Poured out unto his audience
A contribution too —
A Peter-Dawson wren in sooth.
With merry stunts to do.
And then I heard Beethoven sweet
Conduct the silver-eyes
In chiming chorus, ere the sun
(Wherein God’s glory lies)
Had put his golden seals upon
The ever-waiting skies.
I listened to the Wagner growl
Of morning seas compelled
In guttural song to answer to
The brooding gods of Eld —•
Restrained, yet anxious to unloose
Their Hunnish hate withheld.
I heard a Mozart chorus grand,
With thunder in the bass;
It was a sudden wind that went
Across the trees and grass....
I know not where that wind has gone—
I do not know, alas!
But as this mellow morning fell
And it was good to be,
I thought, I thought of many things
That are by land and sea;
I thought of many, many, things
That call to you and me.
I thought of pictures and of songs,
Of pleasure and of pain.
And of our lives that, may not be
Entirely lived in vain—
This mellow moon, this mellow morn,
That will not come again.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles —Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and. Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS. DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTJNGJIOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House.
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO.. LTD., Adelaide.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space. ' •
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount' of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
Enow. Appeal to them through ‘THE AGE,”
which others hare found to be productive. Get
the benefit of- 77 years’ specialised effort- in
supplying the needs of 119,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Streer,
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
Cbe new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and yyaur interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman's
paper published in "file Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it. ■
It's up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
114 George Street. Sydney.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupic
sensationalism, and its high percent
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph" carrie.
more classified advertisements thar
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force, in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Che mercury
—by virtue of having tire largest
circulation and the widest influence
—is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the state). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LT$.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, SO Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
vV
j*'
&
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
"THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
"THE EXAMINER" is in its 90th year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Fxill information, copies, advertising rates of "The. Examiner,” “Weekly Courier and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston,
Mr. M. S. Jillan,
National Bank Chambers,
27l Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”, takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
A if
MI
wA « f 8
sm
m i
®a&- ■SSESTiS?*
Soon ~ the calm
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles,
Beyond the chill grip of winter, the languid appeal of
Rarotonga and Papeete induces travellers to linger amid
alluring surroundings.
Such a holiday awaits you, within easy reach of Sydney by
the swift modem liners of the Union S. S. Co,
SAILING . . MAKURA .. . AUGUST 6 S
UNION S. S. CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney, 59 William Street, Melbourne,
UNIONROYAb MAINLINE
r
h*.
%
£gS^r r -
Kv
W.
J*
BURNS PHILP TOURS
FOR YOUR HOLIDAY.
A REGION OF DELIGHT, OFFER-
ING UNLIMITED ATTRACTIONS TO
THE TOURIST.
Regular sailings from
Australian Ports.
Return Fare from Sydney,
£Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Storv.
RearPthe “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS, PHILP &,C?,L T . D
7 BRIDGE ST, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
bank of new south wales
ESTABLISHED ISI7.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
RSfevve Fund
Reserve l.iability
*2*
O' H*»
O Cn
©
O © ©
O O ©
© © o
,500,
£89,228,378
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1530
• General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies m the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
KfcS>3s&
>o*
s«V* e
*lO <S e
t\e v
0°
1>
<°r?
>s f
•■ %» % Art*
.* o<f *«\<
0?0$*


To meet the existing need for more
economical motoring Goodyear
builds a tyre to sell at a lower price
•. • not a"cheap” tyre ... but a guar-
anteed quality tyre at a low cost ...
ẃ
ẁ
‘BUILD a new tyre —A quality tyre within the
reach of all.
"Give it a handsome, long wearing tread.
"Put elastic Supertwist Cord into the body of it.
"Build it to sell at a lower price, but "Don’t
make a ’cheap’ tyre!”
That was the order given Goodyear Development
Engineers.
The answer is the New Pathfinder made in
by
Australia—a tyre combining quality with low cost.
GOOD
Pathfinder Balloon
Tyre for Passenger
•Cars.
Pathfinder High*
Pressure T'y re for
Passenger Cars,
11l
A Guaranteed Quality Tyre
at a Lower Price
