

iMior aioMiH
u
"Tfil
/M
*v\
R
n
tension Curve*
The Fence
rac
Perfect
Joint
'■ % , #
/
f
;/
It
//
»?
\ ,
■
4.N X
Fi rc Proof:
Rust Proof,
Stock Proof, t.
Weather Proof
ECONOMY is the watchword that is being sounded
everywhere in these times of financial stress.
Fencing costs are a big item to the man on the land
•—how foolish, how economically unsound to go on
erecting the old-fashioned, obsolete type of post and
wire fence! In a few years the whole cost of labor
and materials will have to be met again. THE
WARATAH FENCE, “HINGED JOINT,” LASTS A
LIFETIME.
Summer is on the way—bringing with it bush firesw
If fires sweep your paddocks, will they lay low miles
of fencing because you are still using wooden posts?
Erect a WARATAH “Hinged Joint” Fence with
B.H.P. Star Steel Posts, and damage or destruction
by fire is an impossibility.
The post-and-wire fence does not offer absolute
security. Stock can spread the wires of an ordinary
In the event of the wires being
distorted from pressure by a beast
or other cause, immediately the
strain is removed the fence reverts
to its original erect position.
fence, as the droppers are many feet apart. This
cannot happen with the “Hinged Joint” Waratah
Fence, which has pickets or droppers every 12
inches (6 inches on Pig Fences).
Again what about resistance to weather and
extremes of climate? All wire in the Waratah Fence
is made from B.H.P. steel and is heavily and evenly
galvanised with pure electrolytic zinc by the hot
process/ Thus long life is assured with no danger of
rust. The Waratah “tension curve” gives the fence
greater resilience and prevents the possibility of the
line wires fracturing during frost.
Made in three types: Special Heavy
Fence —Tyeasy High Tensile Fence-
Standard Fence. Special fences are avail-
able for: Cattle, Sheep (2 styles), Lambs
and Pigs. Write for illustrated booklet.
MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD.
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Makers also of the following fencing materials: “Waratah” Wire Netting,
“Waratah” Barbed Wire, and the famous “Waratah” B.H.P. Star Steel Posts.
Sold by leading Merchants and Distributors throughout Australia.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA FROM B.H.P. NEWCASTLE STEEL.
m
S
xsrtottctn
The On 1 14 “HINGED JOINT "Fence made in AuJhraUa
The Bulletin
fittuxA- teo ~§vua ft S.
Vol 52. —No. 2701.
Wednesday, November 18, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR New Library Catalogue for 1931 is
y' now ready, and will be forwarded, with
full terms and particulars post free, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Storu W ¥ ting
sJVVk y ot HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
• SEND THIS COUPON *
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please s,end, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 1 ‘
My Name
My Address
S.B. 231 ;
JJYSAGHT7
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
A
M
%
%
*
%
%
mm.
S
MEMCINAL
«OU.«>
%
*)****
Every time you wash your face
and hands use this delicately
medicated Soap and note how
it not only cleanses but also pro-
tects the skin. Made of the pur-
est ingredients, Cuticrara
Soap is ideal for daily use for
all the family.
Price 1/-. Sample free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854.'
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward—pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high' level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State, By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl,
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Towc
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: P. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS 11.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane ’Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any ofher Queensland daily.
it follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain infofmation without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Solving the Seeds of Better Business .”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
A ustralian Representative :
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
. Phone: .85241.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with '"very subject of
Interest to women.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Crown in the ’Nineties
The second volume of The Letters of
Queen Victoria (John Murray; 255.) is
more human, and to that extent more inter-
esting, than the first. The correspondence
extends from 1886, when the Queen was
already a consummate politician with the
self-confidence of long experience, to the
end of the century. At first all is well. Tli
Conservatives are in power; she is sur
rounded by members of her family and ol
friends who obligingly refrain from distress
ing her by dying; there are enjoyable com
ma,nd performances and other gaieties
Eddy (Duke of Clarence) arrives one da
and says, “I have some good news to te
you; I am engaged to May Teck”; Berti
(Prince of Wales) and Willy (German
Emperor) behave dutifully and well. I
was in ’92 that her world went to pieces
Poor Eddy died of pneumonia in January
In the summer the Salisbury Governmen
was defeated.
I saw Lord Salisbury at quarter to five. He cam
to resign ; the result of last night’s iniquitous vote
Only forty caused this catastrophe.
Faced with the necessity of sending fo
hateful Mr. Gladstone, she does not dis
guise her feelings. Her memo, is icy:—
Lord Salisbury having placed his resignation i
the Queen’s hands which she has accepted with muc
regret she now desires to ask Mr. Gladstone if h
is prepared to try and form a Ministry to carry o
the Government of the country. The Queen neec
scarcely add that she trusts that Mr. Gladstone anc
his friends will continue to maintain and promot
the honor and welfare of her great Empire.
This book discloses for the first time the
full facts about Lubouchere’s exclusion
from office. The Queen did not object to
him on moral grounds; the consideration
that weighed with her was his paper. She
ruled that he must give up “Truth” or “ge
some subordinate post, which would never
bring him into her presence.” As he was
making £lO,OOO a year from “Truth” he pre
ferred to sacrifice office, and pose; Wilkes
like, as a victim of prejudice. The Queei
felt that the horrors of a Liberal Govern-
ment might be mitigated if Lore
Rosebery, an Empire man and one of her
son’s friends, could be persuaded to take
office in it. He was desperately ill at the
time (“I have the greatest doubts,” he
wrote to the Prince, “as to whether my
long loneliness and sleeplessness have nol
unfitted me for public life”), but he wen!
to the Foreign Office. Her dislike of the
G.O.M. remained unabated right up to the
spring of ’94, when ill-health forced him to
resign; then she softened and her farewell
was gracious:—
The Queen writes these few lines to say that she
thinks, after so many years of arduous'labor anc
responsibility, Mr. Gladstone is right in wishing to
be relieved at his age of these arduous duties, anc
she trusts he will be able to enjoy peace and quie
with his excellent and devoted wife in health anc
happiness, and that his eyesight may improve. The
Queen would gladly have conferred a peerage on
Mr. Gladstone but she knows that he would not
accept it.
Over and over again she appears as an
arrogant, stubborn and shortsighted
woman, but she also appears as a loyal
friend, a patriot and a slave to duty; and
she knew her job. One puts down the
book with an impression that the autocracy
of this capable old lady might be a good
deal more comfortable for the rank and file
than that of some democrats.
England’s R.C. Poets
D. B. Wyndham-Lewis begins his amusing
preface to Maurice Leahy’s Jin Anthology of
Contemporary Catholic Poetry (Cecil
Palmer; 65.) with a platitude: “Everybody
realises on first scanning a new anthology
how much better a job he himself could have
made of it with one hand tied.” Of course.
No two anthologists base'their selections on
the same grounds, and there are national
differences. The French Catholic antholo-
gies are almost entirely devotional, because
devotionalispi is the onfy distinguishing
mark in a literature which hasn’t produced
a Protestant poet. Shane Leslie’s English
anthology is a masterpiece of its kind, but
it would admittedly have been improved
by a more worldly note. This one contains
poems which might have been written by
members of any denomination, or none, but
it is hard to understand on what principle,
if any, they were chosen. The place of
honor is given to Maurice Baring’s “In
Memoriam,” which contains as many
examples of bathos as are to be found in
anything by Wordsworth, or even Austin.
For example:—
There is no answer when we call your name.
We cannot hear your step upon the stair.
We turn to speak and find a vacant chair.
There are only three sonnets by Lord
Alfred Douglas, and he is one of England’s
master sonneteers;
Lady Wentworth,
who is no more
than a. rhymester,
is represented by
five, all bad and
' - some dreadful.
Wilfred Meynell is allowed to express him-
self in 12 lines; Katharine Tynan is given
nearly as many pages. Belloc and Chesterton
supply a poem apiece; there are five by
Mrs. Fane Trotter, including her “Menin
Way” doggerel.
And I remember gallant men
And lads who fought and died,
And think of all their laughter when
They said Good-bye—and lied ;
‘•lt’s not so bad,” they used to say,
“Along the Arinentieres and Menin Way.”
However, there are some delightful verses
in this unbalanced collection (F. W.
Harvey’s “Ducks” is worth the price of the
book by itself), and there is at least one
gloriously English poem—Alfred Noyes’s
“The Burial of a Queen.”
It Isn’t Dublin
Dona Juana, by Francis Crossle (Frank C.
Johnson ; 12s. 6d.) is the first production of
Sydney’s latest publishing house. The
characters are nominally Irish, and the
action is laid in Dublin, but no attempt is
made to show the reader one of the world’s
most individual cities, and though the
dialogue has Irish twists (“It’s a hard life
she’s had”), the speakers are Sassenachs
under their skins. Or they may be Sydney-
ites. The Free State has the passionate
interest in itself of a small nation in the
making. From the moment a visitor lands
at Dunleary (late Kingstown) he realises
that this new Ireland is thinking no more of
the outside world than the world is think-
ing of it. There are reasons anart from
nationalism. The local politics are as excit-
ing as a crime movie. While the writer
was last in Dublin the Minister for Justice
was assassinated (a fate he had expected),
and President Cosgrave and his colleagues
are still being protected by armed guards.
It is of these events that modern Dubliners
talk when they are not gloomily recalling
“the coolness,” or anticipating the glorious
destiny of an undivided Ireland. Dr.
Crossle’s novel is unreal, partly because
none of the people in it seem to care about
Irish affairs and partly because most of
them joke about sex. Dublin was never
dirty in that sense. Bright young Lon-
doners can talk with Pagan ease what the
Free State condemns as “smut”; it
sounds all wrong in an Irish accent. The
“Dona Juana” of the book is Audley Fay.
Her doctor-husband is an unsatisfactory
bedmate, so she gives herself experimentally
to Tom Pollexen (“in medicine at Trinity”)
and has a. child by Willie, a comic German,
and other adventures before settling down
with her first lover. Oliver, the only lead-
ing character who has the Irish habit of
reticence regarding the business of procrea-
tion, pairs off with a nice girl whom he
falls in love with while he is in Switzer-
land and Audley is having her baby. There
are plenty of witty remarks, and some
hideously competent descriptions of opera-
tions; in short, the novel is far above the
average; but it is the publisher who earns
the honors. The cover and jacket are
works of art, and the general format and
printing (though the latter is in 8-point, and
hard on the eyes) are admirable. The
edition is limited to 1000 copies and is for
private circulation.
RED PAGE.
Experiments in Education
If you had suggested to a nineteenth-
centuiy teacher that, having handed over
his class to one of the boys, he should him-
seli take a seat on the form benches and
be taught and disciplined by that boy or
a committee of boys, he would probably
ha\e sent for the police and a mental
specialist. But that is the teaching method
advocated by A. L. G. Mackay in Experi-
ments in Educational Self-government
(George Allen and Unwin; 7s. 6d, net). Of
his work with such a class he says
In each lesson when the minutes (of the previous
lesson in the subject) had been read and passed,
the chairman carried on—acting as muster—instead
of handing over the class to the master, and each
boy worked under the supervision of the chairman.
Using tins method, a class of boys, aged 12 or 13
years, and from 25 to 30 in number, during a period
of Ij2 months, worked through an ordinary school
curriculum in competition with three parallel classes
taught by masters working along traditional lines:
these boys took the school tests and examinations
and performed as creditably as, and in some ernes
better than the other classes. They worked ihrough
one of Arnold’s grammar books, thev completed %
scheduled amount of their Latin book (Ora Mari-
tima), they read, acted and discussed “Julius Cassar.”
The experiments' were conducted 10 years
ago at two schools in Sydney, C.E G S
(’Shore) and Fort-street High School, and
the only thing Mr. Mackay.. doesn’t appear
to tell is why they have not developed into
accepted routine of modern teaching. Are
there disadvantages which do not appear in
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


*TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ”•
The salt of business.
THE SENIOR STORE”
ď
Say successful business men
II
&
Your Christmas Suit
MADE TO YOUR MEASURE FOR
“It’s good business to buy
GOOD CLOTHES”
They are the men who realise that quality apparel is a most necessary
factor in their success. They pay particular attention to their clothes,
for they know the advantages which come from maintaining a well-
dressed appearance. The good businessman attains this imminence
economically because he understands quality-value, he understands how
to wear the smaller important mercery essentials that add so much to
individuality. Anthony Horderns’ here feature exceptional values from
all men’s wear sections definitely marked with economy and good taste.
Have good clothes—have them at saving prices this summer, NOW.
A “MADE-TO-ORDER” COULD NOT GIVE
Smarter'
than you get in these fine Sac Suits at
And certainly a made-to-measure could not give you
such fine quality of fabric, such careful workmanship,
such neatness of finish at anywhere near the price of these
ready-to-wears. The tall man, the short man, the slim...
5916
we fit them all as satisfactorily as the average build.
There’s style in the well-fitting collar, the shape-retaining fronts, the softly-rolled
lapels and smartly cut vest and trousers. The materials are the newest and the price
the lowest, "QUALITY” considered. Fine Serges, 59/6, 69/6. Bnarproof, 55/-,
59/6. Fancy Worsteds, 59/6, 69/6, 79/6.
A trained staff of skilled tailors will make any adjustments to fit, such as length of
sleeve or leg, etc. These alterations can be executed within a very short time,
without extra charge.... here’s service indeed. Order now.
&
If you are contemplating that new Xmas Suit. . . .order one now. -is
will give us plenty of time to tailor your suit. Our cutters give you
personal attention, and all our tailoring is done in our own workrooms.
We do not charge for any extras you wish to have embodied in the
suit. The materials are all the latest in pattern, and we have some very
fine qualities in Serges, Plain Greys, etc. Write, ’phone or call for
patterns.
Suits to measure—-
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 63/-, 84/-, 105/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
USE OUR “D.P.S,” NO INTEREST
Two-piece Suits
All-wool Summer
Tweeds. Mid-greys or
Fawns. Cool and com-
42/-
fortable. Trousers made for
either braces or belt. All sizes.
At Anthony Horderns’ . . 42/-
Flannel Trousers
All-wool, in newest
Greys, also Fancy
shades, plain or striped
28in. to 42in. waist.
11/9
At Anthony Horderns* . . 11/9
17/9 Dust Coat
Real Linen Crash or
British Poplins. Sizes
6,7, 6J and 1\ only.
dsf
Price . . 17/9 NOW . . 8/10
Such smart TIES at
IN POPULAR
BROADWAYS
2 7 n
All smart men are exceptionally careful of what they wear
between the lapels and the collar. It is m T , mos
particularly, where good taste is so essential. We are posi-
tive that the most fastidious of men could not desire anything
smarter, more tasteful than a range Anthony Horderns
now show at 2/11. “MOGADOR” stripes—the newestl
Three-tone stripes on Navy, Grey, Fawn, Maroon
and Brown grounds.
At Anthony Horderns’, each
2/11
Write now for Anthony Horderns’ new Spring and Summer
Fashion Catalogue. It is full of exceptional VALUES....
newest styles a/nd up-to-the-minute accessovies fov both men
and women. Post letters to Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
hwvvVVs
s>
V\
Only a few inches ankle.
PERHAPS!
—but it will often reveal worlds about a man s taste. Ha
hose are important to smartness. Anthony Horderns
feature Fancy All-wool Socks in dressy figured designs • • •
the latest. . . .on Brown, Fawn or Grey Grounds. Rein orce
toes and heels. Sizes to fit lOin. to 1 1 foot. 0/11
At Anthony Horderns', Price, pair ■ ■
All Men's Wear Sections, Ground Floor, George Street. We Pay Carriage.
J
Real
17/6
Value!
Gentlemen I
To be Individual !
To be SMART.
It is imperative that your hat
should perfectly suit your par-
ticular shape of face and expres-
sion! Your hat makes all the
difference in the world to your
general facial distinction, and to
your personality. Anthony Hor-
derns’ feature these Men’s Fur
Felt Hats with smart snap brim
shape in a superior quality Felt.
Best trimmings, silk lined and
greaseproof leathers. The color-
ings are Steel, Slate, Fawn and
Beaver, at 17/6. Great Value.
•Phone: M 2401
I>ay and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
ill]


\
m
\
is
PLUME
Aviation Spirit and
England - Australia
Flight
Record Time
DAYS, HOURS
A remarkable achievement by a
young Australian in a new type of
light machine. Another proof of
the outstanding quality of Vacuum
products. Thus an Australian in a
British machine (a Comper Swift
monoplane) on products marketed
by an Australian Company regains
for Australia the coveted Aerial
Ashes.
IP£6
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
♦Where available


MURDOCHS
Xmas Special
*1
yy
■s,
'
\
Your
Suit
5716
(Formerly 75/-)
If you are practising economy,
here is ?« golden opportunity. A
genuine Murdoch-fashioned Suit,
ready for your immediate use,
stylishly made from the latest
fancy worsteds. Finely-graded
sizes ensure perfect fitting. Sizes
3 to 7. Regarded as excellent
value at usual price
of 757-
NOW YOURS FOR
57/6
Men’s Trousers, made from ser-
viceable cotton Tweed. Striped
designs. Sizes 3 to 8.
USUALLY 10/6.
MURDOCH’S Special,
7/11
m
25/- Soft
Felt for —
18/9
Here is the finishing touch to
your Xmas outfit. A Murdoch
stylish soft Felt Hat, blocked to
the tick of fashion, smart “Snap
Brim” model, obtainable in a
range of attractive color tones.
Fitted with greaseproof head
leathers. Silk
Snap this now
lined
for . .
18/9
As a further aid to shoppers,
Murdoch’s accept a deposit, and
customers may take delivery any
time between now and Xmas.
Murdoch’s general Summer
Catalogue—FßEE for the asking.
We pay freight
Kindly address all letters to
Desk “R.”
SYDNEY
the book, or is it just another example of
the inability of the routmist to adapt him
‘self “o any environment but the one m
which he was brought up. *
Not the least interesting Mackay s
volume is the section devoted to The Piob
lems of Bad Language and bex Ihe
author states emphatically that both piob-
lemsvare closely related, though not neces-
sarily caused wholly by repressive discip-
line 7 He also puts forward the claim that
it is psychologically unsound to treat either
problem by means of cane or lecture ( It
would be as wise to punish a boy foi
developing mumps or measles. ) 11
arrival of sex develops in a boy feelings of
curiosity, inferiority and possible disgust, and
these attitudes of mind find expression m
bad language, stories about sex and a gen-
eral furtiveness about such matters. Bad
language is used at times by the boys
masters and fathers, and no amount of
punishing will convince a boy that it is
reprehensible to copy them. Space is too
short to tell how Mackay attempts to solve
the sex problem. In brief, he does all he
can to bring it out into the open so that it
may be dealt with scientifically, borne ol
the actual treatments made in his various
classes are detailed.
The style of this absorbing book is simple
and direct. It is as understandable to the
layman as to the professional teacher—an
important point when one realises.that every
parent is just as profoundly concerned with
its teachings as every schoolmaster. It is
good that an Australian has been able to
show the world that our leading instructors
of youth are well up in the race of educa-
tional progress, even if some of the estab-
lishments in which they teach aie lagging
behind. It is stimulating, too, to find in
the author’s preface: “I owe more than I
care to put on paper to the teaching and
encouragement of Professor Mackie, Pm-
fessor of Education in the University of
Sydney, and I should like to pay a tribute
to the great work which he has done for
modern education in Australia. If the
head man is wide awake it should not
be long before the rest of the tribe are
disturbed from their protracted slum-
bers.
DOUBLE GRADUATE.
“East Is East”
Leading British novelists look to the
U.S.A. for a big proportion of their royal-
ties, and many Americans would be lost
without their British sales. Hence the spate
of Anglo-American romances. They reveal
that American authors have only a hearsay
knowledge of England, and that the British
are just as ignorant of the U.S.A. Similar
failures are made by the talkie-tailors when-
ever they desert their national lasts. George
Weston, author of The American Marquis
(Methuen; 7s. 6d.), is a genuine humorist,
and his story rings true as long as the char-
acters are in the U.S.A. Then Judge Marie-
bone, having heard from a solicitor of
“Temple Bar Inn, London,” that he has
become Marquis of Marlebone, brings his
lovely daughters Alicia and Coral and other
members of the family to England, and Mr.
Weston’s troubles begin. The English hero,
Archey, uses adjectives like “ripping” and
“frightful,” but he remains a Hollywood
Briton to the end. His friend, Major
Middlemass, turns up at a family dinner
party “in his full-dress uniform of red and
black and gold, his epaulettes like golden
waterfalls, his double row of ribboned
medals, his black-plumed hat, which he car-
ried beneath his arm.” Eventually the
American Marquis resigns his title and seat
in the House of Lords in favor of Archey,
who has got engaged to Coral, and goes
back to the U.S.A. under the delusion that
he is going to be the father-in-law of a
marchioness. Maurice Richardson avoids
this kind of error in A Strong Man Needed
(Collins; 7s. 6d.) :
“I am vastly relieved that Bill is going to stay
in the family,” said Lord Cadwallow. “I am
sorry for your sake, my dear, that Sebastian does
not inherit the title, and I would willingly make
you a wedding present of it, together with my
robes and coronet, but there are unfortunately some
absurd legal restrictions which would prevent me.”
But then Mr. Richardson is English. Bill
is an Australian giantess. The impecunious
Cadwallow family have her taught boxing,
and take her to the U.S.A., where the natives
go mad about her:—
Perhaps the greatest honor conferred on her was
at Chicago, where the great Scarface A 1 Capone
insisted on coming out of gaol in order that he
might personally supervise her entertainment during
her stay in his city. The illustrious gangster
issued an edict that no shots were to be fired, that
no bombs were to be thrown, that no beating up
should take place, that no blackmail should be
levied, that no millionaires or theatrical stars were
to be “taken for a ride,” and finally that instant
destruction should be visited on anyone who
attempted to kidnap the giantess, or in any other
way interfere with her activities.
Mr. Richardson’s book is a social satire,
and he is funny on undergraduate lines
about his fellow-countrymen, but he is
feeble about America, which he obviously
doesn’t know. May Edgington’s Festival
(Collins; 7s 6d.) is more ambitious than
either of the others. She knows New York
better than most Londoners, but she doesn’t
trust herself to make her Bowery-bred
heroine a real American. Ray Bowfor, gold-
digger, is a nice English girl in all the
essentials, including her accent, which she
is supposed to have acquired by imitating
Anglophiles of the Astor-Vanderbilt type
in the privacy of her bedroom. Ray. who
believes in taking all she can get and giv-
ing nothing, is left to walk home by a disap-
pointed motorist and gets a lift from Lord
Times. She and Times are attracted, but
he goes back to England and she goes back
to old Frank Wittheimer. She had refused
to make the supreme sacrifice while Mr.
Wittheimer was showering presents on her,
but when he says he is broke she is so
touched that she offers him all, and he is
so overcome by her noble conduct that he
shoots himself and leaves her his millions.
A typical Hollywood situation. Ray goes
with her money to England, and the novel
immediately comes to life, and I’emains
very much alive to within a page or so of
its improbable happy ending. There is a
useful literary lesson to be learned from
such books; namely, Don’t write about
peonle or places unless you know them like
the palm of your hand. Even Dickens failed
to provide pictures of America that the
Americans of his day could recognise; the
English in the books of so close an observer
as Sinclair Lewis talk American, and most
Australians in English fiction are carica-
tures. It is no use arguing that minor slips
don’t matter. They do. Novelists set them-
selves up as authorities on the countries
they describe, and on the habits and conven-
tions of those who inhabit them. As often
as a novelist falls in illusion is destroyed
for the readers who catch him out,
and in fiction when illusion goes everything
goes.
J.D.
A Satchel of Books
Bush Lyrics and Songs of the Outback,
by Linda Phillips (Allan and Co.). Miss
Phillips has set her verses to music of great
complexity. All these seven songs are almost
perversely irregular in melodic outline,
and even those in which rhythm is most
strongly marked, such as "Rail W orkers
and “Droving Song” in the “Outback suite,
modulate continually after the fashion of a
Wagnerian recitative. The accompaniments
are ingenious, but in striving to fit eac 1
change of mood and tempo with a new an
appropriate figure the composer has sacri-
ficed unity. The music, reminiscent of Hugo
Wolf in its demands on both vocalist and
pianist, seems miles too sophisticated for
the very simple words and the elemental
Australian scenes which it is sought to
depict. You can’t show a buck-jumper s
paces in a drawing-room.
In Dutch Agnes (Heinemann ; 65.), W. G.
Collingwood returns to the Lake District
which he wrote of with such charm and in-
sight in “Thorstein of the Mere.” A seven-
teenth-century parson—simple, shrewd,
sweet-natured, pious—finds he has won the
romantic affection of the child Agnes, and
diverts it at the right time to a suitable
quarter. The innocent romance is revealed
in his diary, and all through it, like dis-
tant guns, one catches the muttermgs of
the world of action from . which the char-
acters are so remote. Religion, the war in
Germany, the Spanish march on the Palati-
nate, young men going for soldiers, the purple
fever” which the soldiers brought back with
them—all such topics of contemporary in-
terest are touched on by one who is
steeped in the history and atmosphere of
the period.
The Greatest of These, by Nicliolai Gub-
ski (Elkin Mathews; 7s. 6d.). The author
of “The Gladiator” has here written the
poignant story of the ruined and once noble
family of Shan Gliyrey. Three girls and
a boy live the stormy years of their early
youth in Petrograd in an atmosphere or
tragedy. The boy, Pierre, falls in love with
his father’s mistress. Hating Ins family,
the woman marries him and then persuades
the father to take her back. One sister
marries a naval officer, to find that lie is
subject to fits of insanity; the second is a
hopeless procrastinator who adds to the
difficulties of the family by being unable to
support his wife; and Tanya, the youngest
and finest, meets with disaster when she
falls in love with the husband of her best
friend. A procession of brilliantly-etched
characters passes through the lives of the
Shan Ghyreys —Rasputin amongst them.
The book stops just before the Revolution
breaks out. None of the family s problems
are solved, but for people like the Mian
Ghyreys there is no peace this side of the
grave.
And a Little Verse
THE SETTING SUN FULL IN OUR
EYES.
The setting sun full in our eyes
We cannot see;
But listen, my dear, liow the bird cries
Angrily, mockingly, out of that sweet-
flowered tree.
Fools! With love blinding your eyes,
All you can see
Is each other; yet beauty’s self lies
Bright, bright before you in river and
field and tree!
VICTORIA.
NANCE WILSON.
CONFITEOR.
“May the peace of the Lord our God abide
with thee,
And the spirit of Him who died on Calvary
Bless and protect thy soul,” the preacher
I knelt at the preacher’s feet with bended
head
And prayed for the strength to turn away
from love,
From erring human love to the love divine.
But a greater strength and a greater power
than mine
Had shaken my heart, and I only saw his
eyes,
Human, tender and .sad, and very wise;
And I only felt the warmth of liis clasping
hand.
And I prayed for light; but I could not
understand
Why it was wrong that I should have loved
him so ;
And I passed from the dim-lit church to the
street below
Praying of Him love slew on the terrible
Tree
That it be no sin to love who had need of me.
QUEENSLAND.
F. H.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
V.M.P.: Crude ; don’t use words you’re not
sure of J.W.H.P.: Doesn’t persuade us it’s true.
E.D.W.: Too many old props Maluka: Slow
off the mark 1.D.L.: Very promising; will use
one.. ..Max J. G.: Strewn with worn phrases
Norma B.: Well enough done; but it is too hard to
believe no one would have known... .Edgar A. G.:
A yarn in it if told simply. For a start, knock
out two-thirds of jour adjectives. And don’t make
jour doctor learn medicine at Oxford... .Richard
S.: For Bulletin use it would have to be put into
one-third the space... .S.H.R.: You chose a difficult
style and haven’t mastered it.... J.S.W.: A poor one
to interview; and why not tell your own yarn,
anyhow? 1.N.D.: Too fragile M.E.M.: Needed
a much lighter t0uch....F.G.8.: A dreary discussion.
C.E.C.: One knows too soon what the paper
will tell A.J.H.: Not even the first glimmering
of hope J.E.M.: Ditto S.E.F.: As poetry
j'our happy children are no good at all ; the other
'has atmosphere and some terrible lines. ... T.J.C.:
Kindergarten class.... Max J. G.: But couldn t the
girl notice things like that herself ?... .V.S.S.: Lines
such as |
• ’Tis for its charms I am yearning, I
’Tis to there my footsteps are turning |
lead direct to the basket S.L.R.: Thistledown;
but it’s dainty. Go 0n....M. de V. G.: They have
quality; a thin brew, though W.S.: Never met a
shepherd who sings cheerily “Night's coming is
blest” Donna S.: A little more strength would
have carried it through; but we’d like it better if
it did not run so trippingly C.R.S.: Sundial
poems have to be very good these days. Your
sequence is filled with the obvious... .Gladys H.:
“Some ducks are waddling homewards from the
water”—-no, dear lady, it would be hopeless, even
if you didn’t rhyme “swamp” with “damp”....
D.J.S.: You ask: —
Can we longer depend on the singing of songs
For the cure of our ills and political wrongs?
Apparently not. But did rve ever ?. .. . Quandong:
Not much gained by telling a man he is drowning
if you can’t help him out Warwick: Sorry, can’t
be done while exchange and primage, etc., add one-
third to cost of production.... Cornet: Almost a
crime. Why did you commit it? Commonsense:
Much obliged. But we’ll let it stand—there is not
much to be gained by carrying the controversy
farther E.T.li.: Too long for our space... .Dirk
H.: A little sadness too faintly sung L.C.: When
the two soulless politicians got to Heaven’s gate:—
St. Peter said' “Depart from me,
You money-grubbers of low degree;
You’ll have to be content to dwell
With old king Nick ’way down in Hell.
And the Religious Editor offers to give the spit a
turn or two H.L.W., Arthur W., Florence H. :
Fair, but undistinguished.... Crosseye: A wistful
notq spoiled by old furnishings G.J.G.: Give it a
spin overseas—it hasn’t sufficient local c010r....
John R.R.: Still not enough craft to carry the art.
O.F.: No, the dragon you mean to be scarlet
is pale pink Jean M.: Enough promise to justify
encouragement... .Geoffrey P.: The best is the
shortest, and that is a quaint nothing. “Abroad”
is pretty sentiment, with one very gritty rhyme—-
“dark —talk”.... Martian: Much obliged ; but we
couldn’t pile our own dish so high.... Quinton T.:
Some merit, but no outstanding quality Zasu:
Too slight Lincoln: So that the men who earn
more might get more, you’d sack all who don’t earn
the basic wage. You wouldn’t if you were an
employer and wanted peace... .Zillonah: But why
sermonise in bad verse?... .E.E.: No hand-out for
“The Tramp” D.8.0’C.: “Hold ’Em” failed to
grip A.N.M.: Good subject feebly handled
Jean I.: Flower pieces grow rather wearisome; but
this one almost persuaded us Bellerive: You
charm us with your
RHYME OF A THEATRICAL PROPERTY MASTER.
A property master of
A theatre at work
A most difficult task
Will rarely shirk.
With plaster of Paris,
Wire and clay,
Making up props, for
A forthcoming play.
Piled upon shelves
Are giants’ heads and swords,
Glued together with papers
And painted cardboards.
For drama and opera
Varied props, are made up,
Neatly gilded and painted
To hide the rough.
. ...5.8.F.: Fifty lines is the most we can spare
any contributor on those pages... .John M.: There
are times when The Bulletin’s wife doesn’t want
oysters, no matter how good, having two dozen in
hand already. And it’s the same with poems
John C. G.: “Australasian,” Melbourne; “S. M.
Herald,” Sydney D. Rob: Not quite; but it has
quality. You make emotion sound real.. ...6 x 4:
Begins very nicely; then loses itself... .W.G.S.: You
diagnose the disease, sniff the medicine and advise
pouring it out. Well, and what then? W.H.:
Too vague Francis J. B.: Your Muse has hysterics.
Give her plain food and fresh air... . W.D.E., Elsie
V. B.: Uneven... .H.H.S.: Sounds like a musical-
box —obvious sentiment set to a tinkly measure
Arny: You warned us we might find some of the verses
hot. We didn’t —only warmed up on the griller
of the mind, not heated in the furnace of the
emotions 1.M.: Very well done; sorry the market
is so overstocked D.D.: Not snappy enough
M.A.: Pope lisped in numbers; you merely bleat
in rhyme... .V.G.M.: Nothing in it A.J.H.: —
Bill Ferrell lived in Exeter,
That town of English fame,
But Bill grew tired of England
So to Australia came.
At that point we got tired, too A.E.D.: All
granted, but you don’t make tolerable verse of it.
A.B.K.: Futile F.J.: No demand for metrical
compositions on how to tell a horse’s age H.T.G.:
Too late; and too long for ordinary use.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.M.T.: Keep pegging away; you’ll get there
yet G.G.8.: Your principal trouble is that you
can’t draw R.L.G.: Nice crisp line but uninterest-
ing subjects L.N.: Too harsh and scratchy
M.R.: Can’t see any promise in them H.G.:
Picture of hump-backed golfer with remarkable neck
rejected with enthusiasm R.J.McF.: That sort of
cross-hatching went out with wood-blocks A.F.L.:
We think it worthless... .R.N.U.: Like your style,
but the jokes are hopeless... .R.J.11.: We’ll take
your word for it that they’re human beings J.T.:
Certainly persevere; w'e’ve never seen a towel drawn
better... .H.J. A.: There’s life in your pen; nearly
got through... .E.G.McC.: Too rococo. .. .J.S.:
Reminds us (with a shudder) of things seen
painted in albums, long ago.


sd
FAMOUS
PORT
' \
mm
.mi
m
m
m
/3m
■. .:"■ 7. : : :. ■
■■■
/
s
I
■
IK
M
■
mw
i
•IfV
8
m
1 m
m
tmß&r '*Wmmrn i
J P j
H
;
* .•
■ a
V '": m
■
*
aiigpp s ''
11 a
■ .*/■■
«r
\ :r:
i—n
i
s
:
ďf


The Bulletin
Vol. 52. —No. 2701.
November 18, 1931.
THE GREATEST OF ALL ILLUSIONS.
"The Federal Government is still pinning its faith to some form of currency inflation.”— Ex-Minister Gullett.
MANAGER THEODORE: “With your kind permission, ladies and gentlemen. Professor Inflationski will now perform a trick with which he has staggered the civilised
world. By a few turns of the marvellous contrivance which he has brought with him, he will reduce your savings to nil, yet make it appear that they have
been increased by millions.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 2.7,1 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 l\s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. '
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘‘All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 1/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
AGAIN, LET’S RE-EMPLOY
100,000 MEN!
Seven months ago this paper first raised
the cry “Let’s re-employ 100,000 men!” The
position as it appeared and still appears
to The Bulletin is that we have, say,
100,000 men in Australia who have as many
needs as ever they had, and who might
be and should be kept fully and profit-
ably engaged in supplying those needs. If
they were moved in a mass to some Pacific
island they would promptly get to work;
they would want food and clothing and
shelter, and they would proceed to satisfy
those wants. They would not sit down and
wait for some vague thing called a market;
they would be the market themselves. They
are no less capable of being their own
market without segregation. The only
reason they don’t buy things is that in these
days very few of us can start on produc-
tion ourselves, and at this moment nobody
will give us a start because nobody believes
there is a market waiting for our produce.
That is the point on which public attention
ought to be concentrated. These out-of-
works actually constitute a market bounded
only by their own efforts. The more they
produce the more they can consume. There
are two reasons why trade is dull in Aus-
tralia to-day; one, our foreign markets are
very low; the other, so many of our people
are not producing anything and therefore
are not able to buy anything. We cannot
put up foreign prices; that cause of our
dull conditions is beyond us. But we can
increase our purchasing power by at least
a million a week. Through keeping over
300,000 people out of employment we are
wasting a home market greater than the
foreign markets for our wool and wheat
combined.
The Prime Minister has now launched a
National Prosperity campaign; and, since
anything is better than nothing, this is wel-
come. It attacks the problem from the
other end. Mr. Scullin’s idea is that if we
can get people to spend more money, especi-
ally on Australian goods, Australian manu-
facturers and other producers will be able
to employ more labor. He expects large
psychological consequences from this cam-
paign; and it is quite likely that he will
get them. He certainly will if he can make
the public realise that we have a
in our own unemployed if only we can get
them re-employed productively. This is
precisely what Britain now realises, as the
general election the other day showed.
Without a protective tariff the bulk of the
British unemployed were dependent upon
foreign markets; and those markets were
glutted. With a protective tariff a market
will be secured in the nation’s own people,
as ours is to an extent which we hardly yet
realise.
But, though more vigorous spending will
enable the manufacturers and other pro-
ducers to employ more labor, that will not
be enough. The matter of finance is tre-
mendously important. The manufacturer
has to get his raw material; and he has
to pay out wages long before his product
can be marketed and longer still before
he can get his money. At Broken Hill at
the present moment there is 100.000 tons
of lead mined, dressed and stacked await-
ing shipment and sale, representing at least
three-quarters of a million in wages. For-
tunately the Broken Hill cos. had accumu-
lated large reserves and have been able to
carry the tremendous load; but there are
few producers so situated. The vast majo-
rity have to depend largely on the banks for
finance. To what extent they can help
depends largely upon the demands made
upon them by Governments.
Ihe Bulletin’s original proposal was
that there should be a three-sided confer-
ence of employers, employees and bankers
to draw up a plan for a simultaneous re-
employment of a very large number of men
—there is no reason why it should not be
100,000. The psychological effect of so bold
a scheme would be undoubted. Its success
would, of course, call for close co-operation.
If the 100,000 were segregated and produced
only for their own consumption, costs
would not matter a great deal: if wages
were high, purchasing power would be high;
if output was small, consumption would have
to be small too. But as they cannot be
segregated, costs of the new production
must be kept low enough to give the indis-
pensable primary industries a chance to sell
their products abroad; for upon those sales
we depend absolutely to pay our overseas
interest and other bills. There must for
this reason be co-ordination and co-opera-
tion between the three interests chiefly con-
cerned—employers, employees and bankers.
Thus far the employees’ organisations
have refused to come into any conference.
But surely no avenue that might possibly
lead to re-employment ought to remain un-
explored. When we have so many thousands
of unemployed who could be their own
market if they were wage-earning, it is little
Jess than criminal that those who might
help attempt nothing in the way of organis-
ing employment. For two years the ex-
cuse has been that this was the work of the
politicians; and for two years the position
has steadily got worse. While not enthusi-
astic about it The Bulletin therefore wel-
comes Mr. Scullin’s effort and the Chamber
of Manufactures’ response. But far more
is needed in the way of co-operation and
co-ordination. Manufacturers are asked to
put on 10 p.c. more employees. They gladly
would (1) if they had the money, and (2)
if they could see a great surge of public
confidence, which could carry them on
until the fruit of the new workers’ efforts
came back to the employers. To secure the
first the co-operation of the bankers is
necessary; to secure the second the co-
operation of the employees and their repre-
sentatives is needed. Once we can get things
moving on those lines, progress will mean
more progress. As soon as men are re-
employed there will be two reactions: they
will become purchasers and consumers and
begin to create the new market for their
own products; they will leave the dole, and
the money thus saved should come off tax-
ation and be available for further purchases.
The people will spend money all right when
it is in their pockets to spend and they
trust the future. At present in most cases
it is not there and will not be until taxa-
tion and especially unemployment-relief
taxation is reduced.
WHAT IS THIS GOLD STANDARD?
Can you give a clear explanation of what is meant
by the Gold Standard? Many talk glibly on the
point, but so far I have not met anyone who could
be more than vaguely discursive and unsatisfactory.
—A Toowoomba correspondent.
While a country is completely self-con-
tained, having no trade with another
country and neither making payments to
it nor receiving payments from it, it does
not matter what its standard of value is.
As long as its people will agree to accept
payment for goods and services in salt,
then salt is a standard of value. It need
not have a fixed value. Nothing can have
whose production varies in quantity.
When the country with the salt currency
gets into touch with other countries and
begins to trade, something must be found
which will be acceptable to both of them as
a medium in settling debts. The second
country nlay not be willing to take salt,
because salt may not have a local value,
or it may have a very low local value.
Something must be found which will have
about the same purchasing power in both
countries.
The second country may already have
trade with a third and a fourth country. It
will therefore want, as a medium which it
can pass on to these other countries, some-
thing with about the same purchasing power
there as that at which the article was
accepted from the first country. If the four
could agree upon salt, then salt would be
used to settle any differences in their trading
accounts with one another. If No. 1 ex-
ported more goods to No. 2 than it imported
from No. 2—that is to say, if in the barter
of goods No. 2 had a balance to pay in the
agreed-upon medium—No. 2 would export
salt to No. 1 to square the account.
Many articles have been used in these
international settlements. It was soon
found that what was needed was something
which, besides being an agreed-upon
medium, was small in bulk, not subject to
decay and not liable to sudden and violent
fluctuations in purchasing value through
violent and sudden movements in produc-
tion. Metals were very early chosen as
filling these requirements in the highest
degree. The final choice of gold alone was
not made until very recent times and
then not simultaneously in all countries.
Thus far it has been assumed that one
country trades with another. But in fact
it is not a country that trades with another;
it is individuals who do the trading. Jones
of Australia ships frozen lamb to Smith
of England. But Jones, who is going to be
paid in gold in London, buys the lambs
from Brown and pays freight to Robinson.
He does not pay in gold, however, notes
being more convenient and the supply of
gold being insufficient for the settlement
of all debts. He must therefore see that
the paper he pays with is on a gold standard
—each note, that is, being exchangeable for
a fixed quantity of gold. Otherwise he
would not know how much in notes he could
afford to pay.
Sometimes a country goes off the gold
standard. When that happens its notes are
no longer exchangeable for the old fixed
quantity of gold. When this happens,
Jones, if he is paid in gold in London,
can get more than £lOO in notes in Aus-
tralia for 100 sovereigns in London. And
getting more than 100 £-notes in Australia
he can afford to pay more of these notes
to the grower and for freight, etc. That
is inflation in one of its shapes.
But though one or two or a dozen
countries may go off the gold standard, the
gold standard is still there. At present the
U.S.A. and France are still on the gold
standard, though Britain is off it; this
means that when Britain buys something
from France it must pay more in pounds
(paper) than it did formerly. It can’t send
the paper pounds to France, paper being of
no value except for what it will buy in its
own country; and if. it falls in value in that
country, the Frenchman must pay more
pounds to buy the goods that must be ex-
ported to pay for the imports—the goods
the Frenchman sold to the Englishman.
If the Frenchman could go to the Bank
of England and get gold for his English
notes or other promises to pay, as he form-
erly could, then there would be no trouble.
It is because the payment now has to be
made in goods, and because not enough
goods are being exported to pay for the
imports, that there is competition for French
money in London, and a consequent pre-
mium—just the same as there is in Aus-
tralia for the payments that are made in
London for our exports. The matter is a
little complicated by investments abroad or
debts abroad; in the one case there is inter-
est to be paid (which is the same as imports
to be paid for) and in the other interest has
to be received (which is the same as ex-
ports to get payment for).
So a country can be on the gold standard
even if it hasn’t any gold. If its exports
are sufficient to pay for its imports and
all its foreign debt charges, its paper will
be on the gold standard, because nobody
will pay a premium for the money payable
abroad for its exports, and therefore its
paper money at home will not be at a dis-
count; in other words, you would not be
able to get more than 100 £-notes in Aus-
tralia, say, for 100 sovereigns in London
(this is assuming that England is on a gold
basis) or $486 in New York. In practice,
however, almost every country requires a
certain fixed minimum holding of gold
against its note issue because (1) persons
proceeding outside the country need gold,
as they can’t carry frozen lambs or wheat
with them, and a country’s paper is good
only in the country of issue; (2) if there
should happen to be a shortage of exports,
gold ought to be available to meet the
deficiency; (3) the gold reserve shows that
the country has been in the habit of living
better than within its means and getting
gold for the balance (though this condition
can be reproduced for a while by foreign
borrowing) and therefore trade is done with
it freely; and (4) as. a check on the over-
issue of notes, for an over-issue of notes
will have exactfy the same effect on their
gold value as an increase of imports with-
out a corresponding increase of exports.
“THE CASE FOR WESTRALIA ."
Dear Bulletin, —l will be as brief as pos-
sible in my reply to Mr. J. R. L. Brinkley,
the Westralian secessionist (B. 4/11/’3l).
Since the Commonwealth, under the
Bruce-Page Ministry, had a spell of en-
thusiasm and took over the State debts,
secession, with default to follow, has held
out promise of being a money-making game,
especially for a State with a stupendous
debt to get rid of. And the secession game
has been pursued with immense vigor in
Westralia. Should a State that remains in-
side the Commonwealth default and leave
its financial burden on the Federal doorstep,
as the insufferable Lang attempted in
N.S.W., the amended Constitution provides
no remedy; a deal of moral pressure can
be brought to bear on the defaulter, all the
same, as the staggered Lang discovered.
But the case would be wholly different if
the defaulter made a judicious retreat out
of the Commonwealth. He wouldn’t belong
to the Loan Council, and could tell it by
telegram that it was a foreign body of
whose existence the seceder refused to be
conscious. His members coiildn t be spoken
to reproachfully m the Canberra Parlia-
ment, for they would be no longer there,
Appeal to the High Court, would be useless,
the defendant having quitted its jurisdiction,
Eastern newspapers which took an un-
friendly or pessimistic vmw of the secession
might be refused circulation m the West.
All mannei of things might be done.
The present leaders, according to some
of them, are so high above suspicion of any
dishonest motive that Professor Picard s
balloon ascent was a mere grovel by com-
panson. Whether future leaders and present
and future followeis will be equally spot-
less is a matter of uncertainty. Mr. Brink-
ley says that, owing to the terrible and
unjust way things are being manipulated in
the East to the detriment of the West,
“Sydney and Melbourne will have 36 out
of 75 seats” in the House of Reps, “in
another 30 years.” This is probably one
of the delusions, like that concerning the
Persecuting Protectionist, which are em-
ployed to rouse the fury of the rank and
file. In the first Federal Parliament N.S.W.
and Victoria had 49 members (N.S.W. 26
and Victoria 23). In the present one they
have 48 members (N.S.W. 28 and Victoria
20). So the balance of power is not moving
towards Sydney and Melbourne.
The class which is so anxious that West-
ralia should be put in a position (by seces-
sion) to do an immensely profitable default,
and is so passionate in its assurances that
it wouldn’t dream of making use of the
opportunity, naturally wants some respect-
able ostensible reason why the absurdly
bulky western State should break away. So
the masses are informed and assured a
thousand times a week that they are perish-
ing with rage because of the tariff, and that
they would gladly die in the last ditch for
the sake of Freetrade. Considering the
amazing lies they are told about the tariff,
it is possible that some people think they
feel that way.
The prime absurditv of the matter is
that a State in the position of Westralia,
with less than half a person to the square
mile, can’t do the picturesque though fool-
ish act of secession, while it can easily do
the sordid and - dingy act of repudiation if
it had the sticking capacity. The people
in office can hold an informal or illegal
referendum on secession (there is no other
sort), and can inform Canberra and London
that it has fixed up an affirmative majority,
After that there is no act that can be done
to compel the Commonwealth to recognise
the Secession Government and make room
for it that won’t be an act of violence,
a nd calculated to provoke violence and
the shedding of nose-blood in return—ex-
cept,'of course, default and the swindling of
the public creditor, which isn’t an act at
all but a sitting down in silence like the
prophet Gandhi, the man with the loin-
cloth. And the masses, if they have been
roused to real excitement, may decide that
they don’t care twopence for Freetrade,
and may only remember their leaders’ wild
promises of an enormous saving of expendi-
ture provided they take the law into their
own hands. And they may get the idea, in
their mental flurry, despite their leaders’
assurances that they will think differently,
that the surest way to save millions by
upsetting things is to upset the public
creditor.—Yours etc., James Edmond.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Exchange Rate.
There is to be no early reduction of the
rate of exchange; our £ is still to be kept
at about 12s. 3d. Well, it may be neces-
sary. Our debts piled up in London may
be so great, and the money piled up in
Australia awaiting remittance may be so
considerable, that this course must be taken
in order to repress imports and encourage
exports. If the true value of the Australian
£ is l 12s. 3d.—that is to say, if there is
such a demand in Australia for money to
make payments abroad that our £ is worth
only 15s. 4d. in sterling and 12s. 3d. in
American or French money in the open
market—the banks are quite right not to
attempt to lower the rate. Indeed, to attempt
it would be a doubtful success; for people
would go outside the banks. But it is
quite a different matter if this rate is main-
tained in order to advantage certain indus-
tries in Australia, no matter how desirable
they may be. If the banks could lower the
rate and did not do so because a high
rate suits the primary producers, then it
would be just as much deliberate inflation as
anything that Mr. Theodore ever suggested.
It is inflation in any case, and inflation
is always dangerous. Last week in Sydney
21fd. was paid for wool for France. But
the Frenchman did not pay 21jjd- He paid
about 13d.; the other was paid by
someone in Australia who wanted the
Frenchman’s money in Europe or America
—it may have been an Australian Govern-
ment or it may have been an importer. In
either case the charge will be passed on to
the people, and Australia will be no better
off, save only in this way—that it will not
import so much and its foreign debts will
be paid. This, however, will be done not
at the expense of the whole community,
but at the expense of part of the com-
munity—until costs, etc., are readjusted.
The only consolation is that the people who
are for the moment escaping what amounts
to a very heavy tax not imposed by any
Government are badly in need of relief.
Toying with inflation is always dangerous,
but it is especially dangerous at the pre-
sent time in Australia. All the signs are
that at the general election next year Mr.
Theodore will put before the country his
fiduciary note-issue proposals, which are
designed to do exactly what the present
Experiments in inflation are doing for the
primary producers. What answer will it be
possible to make to his proposals? How
can we say that inflation is a good thing
when put into practice by one man but a
ruinous thing when put into practice by
another? Australia is being led into a most
dangerous situation, and no more realises
it than it did when, also for the sake of
what looked like prosperity, it indulged in
an orgy of foreign borrowing.
.— +
How We Can Get Back to Work.
When a farmer reaps a crop the proceeds
are available for division between himself
and the labor he employs after payment
for other services—interest, stores, freight,
etc. They can’t divide more than they pro-
duce and nothing they can do will make
it more. But the division may be wrong;
the farmer may be getting too much as his
share, or interest may be too high, or he
may be charged too much for freight or
stores.
In the old days the trades unions said
labor could get a larger share by negotia-
tion, by strikes or by arbitration. That
was quite right; if the employer’s share
was believed to be too great, then the
employees were entirely justified in tiying
to get some of it, and they succeeded far
beyond their expectations. A time, how-
ever, came when it was obvious that there
was no hope of getting more of the em-
ployer’s share: in many cases that share had
vanished. In tens of thousands of cases
the employer could no longer afford to pay
the amount which the law prescribed; and
wholesale unemployment followed. The
great struggle at the present time is to


maintain the rate of payment m the face
of the reduced proceeds of industry gener-
ally and to get the unemployed back to
work at the old rates of wages. Can it be
done and how ?
There are two courses. As we have seen,
what it is possible for the employer and
orripjoyoo to divide depends upon how much
is taken out of the gross proceeds to pay
taxes, freight, interest and other charges.
If taxes, freight, interest, etc., were reduced
far enough, the employee could get as much
as he ever had. But, though something has
been done in the way of interest leduction,
taxes and freights have been raised. It is
costing more to-day to carry three-shilling
wheat to market than it did to carry five-
shilling wheat. Nor is there any disposition
to reduce those charges, because, again,
that would affect wages. The other possible
course is to increase output without extra
expense; but since that means calling on •
labor to do more work for the same money,
it also is turned down—by the Labor poli-
tician, at any rate.
While the Labor politician cannot entirely
neglect these hundreds of thousands of
unemployed, he cannot agree with his
brother as to what should be done about
them. One body, led by Mr. Lang, being
entirely without imagination or resource,
proposes to do nothing; the unemployed
can be kept on the dole, in the hope that
something will turn up, and that improved
conditions will enable the old wages to be
paid. Meantime the harder the brutal capital-
ist is plugged to provide the dole the better
—he never voted for Lang, anyhow. The
other body, led by Mr. Theodore, has an
idea that the quartpot can be made to
yield three or four pints if a scheme is
devised for reducing the size of the pints.
Which, of course, is quite true. This is
known as the fiduciary note-issue trick. Its
purpose is to make pound-notes so common
that it will take two of them to do the
work of one; therefore in dividing the pro-
ceeds it will be possible to pay the worker
twice as much as could be done otherwise.
In this way, it is said, it will be possible to
maintain the worker’s pay even in the
face of a great fall in the proceeds to be
divided. No more callous trick was ever
played on the worker. The whole assump-
tion is that he is a person whose leg can
be pulled without limit.
The old trade union was right. You
cannot divide more than you produce. The
division may be wrong: if it is, it can be
righted. But no amount of trickery will
enable you to get three pints out of a quart
measure. If the shares of both employer
and employee are too little (and that is
what unemployment means) you can make
the amount to be divided among them
larger by (1) increasing the output without
extra expense, (2) cutting down taxes,
freights, interest and other charges. If you
are not agreeable to do either of those
things, then the only alternative to the
Lang plan of helplessness and despair and
the callous Theodore trick is to accept less
pay. Nobody likes it; everybody hates
recommending it. But this isn’t a matter of
sentiment: it is a matter of logic.
♦
Communist Propaganda.
It is something a.t any rate to have had a
frank statement of the views of the Federal
Government upon Communism expressed by
its leader in the Senate :-r
He did not think the Communist party was of
much importance in Australia, but, if it was, this
was a free country. He did not think attempts should
be made to stifle the voice of any prophet when it
might evangelise the world.
The only trouble about honest old Jack
Barnes is that he doesn’t know very much.
He apparently doesn’t know, for instance,
that the Communist party despises majori-
ties. Like all party politicians, Mr. Barnes
reckons the importance of a party by the
number of people behind it. The Com-
munist, on the other hand, knows that
“numbers do not rule.” The whole world,
as another Communist says, is open to “the
daring minority.” In Russia a “daring
minority” of no more than 300,000 imposed
its will upon a nation of 100 millions. The
Communist trusts wholly to the Barneses;
so long as those poor deluded old gentlemen
think that the majority rules, and that
therefore democracy is safe, just so long
have the Communists a hope of capturing
world-power.
No doubt Mr. Barnes says they have a
right to capture power if they can. But
have they? Does it not wholly depend
upon how they propose to do it? “The
minority,” says Pouget, “conscious of its
aims, acts without heeding the amorphous
or the refractory mass; as opposed to
Democracy, which, through the machinery
cf universal suffrage, gives the lead to the
stupid and the lazy, or, rather, to their
elected representatives.” “But why should
we preach the destruction of the State?”
Lenin asked in “Shall the Bolsheviks Remain
in Power?’ “The State,” he went on, “is
an organised rule by a minority of privileged
classes. Let us substitute our minority and
run the machinery.” In a democracy Mr.
Barnes is bound to let any party have its
sa.y which proposes to rule by majority.
But when Communism proposes to over-
throw majority rule, Democracy, in its own
defence, is bound to suppress the enemy.
For this is not the free country that Mr.
Barnes seems to think it is. One is
not free to advocate the assassination of
even the most incompetent Minister. And
one is even less free to advocate the ass-
assination of democratic government. It
is because he misses this point that the
leader of the Government in the Senate
misses the essential and overwhelming differ-
ence between Communist propaganda and
every other sort of propaganda.
The Leg. Council in Queensland.
The delay of the Queensland Government
in keeping its election profnise to restore
the Leg. Council continues to be a source of
angry astonishment to those electors who
have past experience of the evil which a
single Chamber controlled by the Sovietised
politicians of these latter days can do. The
general election is due in May next, and
if Queensland is not to take a most dan-
gerous risk the re-establishment of the
Council as a bulwark is imperative.
Yet, unless something in the nature of a
miracle happens, it seems certain that the
bill restoring the Upper Chamber will not
come before the Assembly. A section of
the party, headed by a member of the
Cabinet, has been bargaining on the question,
threatening to vote with the Opposition
unless Premier Moore accedes to its demand
that the life of the present Parliament be
extended two years. Apart from the very
dubious principle involved in taking such
action without reference to the electors
only justifiable in the case of extreme
national emergency—the attitude of the in-
surgents is one which Queensland outside
Parliament is regarding with contemptuous
disgust, a frame of mind not calculated to
do the Government any good at the coming
election.
It is possible that the Premier, himself
a strong advocate of re-establishment, may
resort to the action the situation calls for.
In the days of William Kidston, a Cabinet
Minister who took sides against his chief
on such an important matter of policy
would soon have been stripped of his port-
folio and excluded from the party deliber-
ations—a happening that Queensland
witnessed at least twice. “Wully’s” example
is one Premier Moore might do worse than
promptly follow.
Asking Too Much of Jurors.
When 17 men were about to take
their trial at Sydney the other day for
seriously injuring police while the latter
were trying to evict them from certain
suburban premises of which the landlord
wanted possession, there was a demonstra-
tion in force outside the courthouse. There
could have been only one object—to intimi-
date those or some of those who might be
concerned in the cases as witnesses, prose-
cuting officers, Judge or jurors. MM no
doubt most was hoped for from the intimi-
dation of jurors.
The present system asks too much of
jurors. There can be no conviction without
the approval of every man of the dozen
empanelled; so that on a conviction in
cases of a certain kind every man of the
jury is liable to be “disciplined” if a ver-
dict of guilty is returned. In many cases,
no doubt, the whole 12 are brave enough to
face the possible consequences; in scores
of cases some one of them is not.
The Scriptures said that it was better
99 guilty men should escape than that one
innocent man should suffer; and no doubt
that view had much to do with shaping
our system of requiring a unanimous verdict
for conviction. But there is no virtue what-
ever in permitting 99 guilty men to escape;
and a system under which it is possible for
99 to go free in the struggle to prevent the
wrongful conviction of one is a wretched
exhibition of human muddling.
In practice, as every experienced juror
knows, where there is a minority of one in
favor of acquittal, it is in most cases either
a suspect or an ill-balanced minority, either
morally or mentally deficient. The cause of
justice is not advanced, it is defeated, by
giving these criminals or deficients the
power to prevent conviction. Certainly
this power stands in the way of the punish-
ment of scores of people deserving it; and
if its abolition should ever lead to wrongful
conviction, which is very doubtful, there is
always the court of criminal appeal to cor-
rect the error.
But in these days a reason above all
others for substituting the majority verdict
—nine to three, or ten to two —lies in the fact
that a conviction would not expose the whole
12 to the unfriendly attentions of “friends
of the accused.” In most cases they would
not dare attack any for fear of attacking
a possible friend. And it would certainly
make jury-squaring infinitely more difficult;
it might be a comparatively simple matter
to square one man, but a vastly more diffi-
cult thing to square two or three.
—
Christ on the Road.
“We do not imagine that the institution of this
‘Travellers’ Tea’ will do much to solve materially
the problem of want; but it will be a gesture, an
intimation, to the men that the Church understands
and cares, and is anxious to help”....
“Gad”: In these words, the Rev. A. J.
Hunter, of St. Andrew’s Presbyterian
Church, Rockhampton, wrote to the local
paper announcing the institution of a
“Travellers’ Tea” at the Manse, to take
place every Sunday at 6 p.m., when “ample
though plain food, music and a sociable
atmosphere” will be provided “for the bene-
fit of the men on the road, looking for
work, homeless and friendless.”
I would like to say “God bless this man!”
with all the fervor that there usually isn’t
in the expression. Here at last is a gesture
from the Church which does not seem to
be made in the name of a cautious, statisti-
cal Christ.
Leaving aside altogether the question of
charity, one is brought face to face with
this fact on the road—that the Church,
apparently, does not care. I heard of one
instance —at Charters Towers, I think —of
a clergyman (a Church of England man)
going down to a bagmen’s camp and talking
with the men. I have never heard of any
other instance of the Church interesting
itself in the travelling unemployed.
Of course you cannot force religion on
men who do not want it. But I fancy that
most of these men do not want it because
the Church, in their .eyes, is associated
almost inseparably with a collection-plate.
If these men on the road had money, and
lived in houses, some priest or parson of
some denomination would, they believe,
make it his business to call upon them.
Here is a first-hand experience. One Sun-
day evening I went into an Anglican
.Cathedral and stayed during evensong.
During the course of that service I listened
to a sermon. It was Trinity Sunday, and
the preacher talked learnedly about the
doctrine of the Trinity. He exhorted his
listeners to import the Christian religion
into their daily lives. He said that Christi-
anity was a dynamic thing; not passive.
I was impressed, and felt that the man
probably was sincere. Next day I went to
his house. He was at the back, underneath
his motor-car, and came out when I asked
him if he knew of any sort of work in the
neighborhood. I did not ask him for money.
I did not ask him for food. I asked him
if he knew of anyone that would be likely
to have some sort of temporary work. He
turned on me almost with abuse. How was
he to know that I was not an unmitigated
scoundrel? Why should he take the risk of
passing me on to anyone? I closed the
incident by merely remarking, “Well, your
behavior is certainly dynamic, even if it is
not dynamically Christian.” And I left
him tinkering with his car.
But beyond the question of the Church
understanding and caring, we on the road
have been quite shocked at the individual
attitude of church ministers towards the prob-
lem of want. In the phraseology of the track,
it is just as easy to “bite” a policeman for
a feed as it is to “bite” a priest o*
parson. I know the poor parson has very
little to spare; but there are things he
might give which don't cost money. I am
thinking now of one “handout” that was
given to a man up north. He showed it
to me. In a dirty piece of newspaper were
one piece of stale cake, two lumps of stale
bread with a hunk of villainous-looking
cheese between each, and the heel of a stale
loaf—just naked and unashamed. In an-
other instance I know of a man who was
flatly turned down at a clergyman’s house
when he asked for something to eat. He
went across the road to a humble little
shop and the woman there, though quite
obviously in poor circumstances, gave him
a decent sort of “handout,” and wrapped it
up just as carefully as if he had bought it
from her. That was what counted.
Surely, here, as never before, is a time
when the Church should take stock of the
situation and make some personal effort
to overcome its traditional policy towards
the underdog? The dole does not, in this
respect, cover its sins of omission; nor
do the activities of the Salvation Army.
The men on the road are still human, and
they would like to feel that, though they
are homeless and, in a sense, friendless, they
could be sure of some sign of active sym-
pathy from that body which finds its sole
motive for existence in the belief that it is
Christ’s messenger.
*
Altering the Other Man’s Cheque.
In Queensland is heard a very definite
demand from some Ministerial supporters
for the extension of the life of the present
Parliament for two years; and in N. S.
Wales it is well understood that only the
Leg. Council stands in the way of a similar
demand. In each case—and in every similar
case —the plea is set up that you can’t see
the true results of a Government policy
in two or three years, that Ministers are
thrown out whose policies were on the
point of justifying themselves, and that
there is constant uncertainty and unrest in
consequence. All of which may be perfectly
true. It is true also that many a man
has discovered after he has sold a horse
that it was a much better horse than he
had thought; even the buyer may be sur-
prised at the size of his bargain. But we
have only one word for the man who,
without reference to the buyer, alters the
latter’s cheque from six pounds to sixteen;
we call him a thief and send him to gaol.
And if before Judge and jury he sets up
the plea that he thought he was doing what
the buyer would like him to do, said buyer
being a fair and honest man, his Honor
would be pretty certain to call him a liar to
boot, and drop six months on to the sentence
he had previously fixed in his mind.
Five-year Parliaments might be a good
thing; but, in view of the comparative ease
with which rogues can nowadays win power
by offers of bribes and by lying promises,
no extension ought to be so much even as
contemplated without provision for the
recall.
■ ♦
Disruption.
After Federation arrived we were urged to
“buy Australian-made goods.” It was not
material whether they were produced in one
State or another: it was enough if the
employment they represented was given to
Australians. The war came and the Aus-
tralian bond was strengthened: it was noth-
ing that John Monash’s home was in Vic-
toria—-he belonged to Australia, and so did
all the valorous deeds of all the Diggers.
The feeling grew rather than diminished
in the years that followed; Australia re-
joiced in what looked like Australian pros
perity. Then harder times set in, and a
new spirit began to show itself —not boldly
at first, but growing bolder the longer it
lasted.
The first pronounced declaration of some-
thing amounting almost to enmity came
from Westralia, and gathered strength m a
definite movement towards secession. Later
there was a revival of the old “Cabbage-
tree” sentiment in N. S. Wales, a disposition
to regard the trade of the State as the
State’s own particular and exclusive prop-
erty; and so far has this been cultivated
that to-day notices are up in Sydney shop-
windows calling upon the people of N. S.
Wales to buy N. S. Wales products, and
thus stop others from robbing the State s
own people of employment which rightly
belongs to them. If in Victoria the feeling
has not shown itself in that form, there is
at least a disposition to regard the big
State over the border as an outlaw. And we
see something of the same spirit in the
struggle to preserve the Government
Savings Bank of N. S. Wales, or, alterna-
tively, to ensure that if the State institu-
tion disappears, the Commonwealth “rival
shall disappear with it.
Nothing can be said against a certain
rivalry between States and towns and terri-
tories. The agricultural societies know that
inter-district competitions have had excellent
results. Civic pride, too, has its virtues; we
could do with a great deal more of it in
Australia, especially in country towns. But
the growth of ill-feeling and recrimination,
the cultivation of State enmities at the
expense of a spirit of Australian nationalism,
is quite another matter. We cannot allow
this to grow without gravely imperilling our
future; it is a national duty to scotch it
wherever it shows itself.
+
The Campaign Against Cancer.
Two London doctors, after six years’ re-
search work, announce that cancer is due
to an ultra-microscopic virus, the cancer
being a multiplication of cells reacting to
the virus. These doctors believe that it
will be possible some day, following up
their experiments, to immunise man against
cancer.
Actually there is no brighter hope in the
announcement than can be got from the
reports of the grand council of the British
Empire Cancer Campaign. Success, during
the past year, the council reports, has been
achieved in two separate directions. A
substance has been produced from artifici-
ally prepared anti-cancerous serum which
not only has cured implanted cancer in
mice, but has also been more or less efficient
in spontaneous cancers in these animals.
And the essential molecular structure of the
cancer-producing agent in tar and other
cancer-producing substances has been deter-
mined.
As for the anti-cancerous serum, some
progress has been made in practice, follow-
ing the removal of the highly toxic quali-
ties with which it was at first handicapped.
Says the council:—
The anti-cancer substance, which is white in
color, proves to be non-poisonous in its pure state ;
it has been found to be ten times more effective
in destroying cancer cells than the original serum
from which it was derived. This new anti-cancer
substance is now being carefully tested on animals.
In the case of mice with implanted tumors —that is
to say, with tumors grafted upon them —the tumors
rapidly disappear when the anti-cancer substance
is administered. The animals, in addition, acquire
immunity to cancer of such a nature that no further
grafts can be made to take. Only five mice afflicted
with spontaneous tumors —that is, tumors arising
naturally—have so far been treated by this method.
In two out of the five the tumor disappeared. While
this must be looked upon as a most encouraging
result, the fact remains .that the anti-cancer sub-
stance did not bring about disappearance of the
tumor in every instance. It would seem, therefore,
that some unknown factor of decisive importance to
the result is present, or absent, in these unsuccessful
cases. A diligent search is now being made for this
factor. The work, unfortunately, lias been hampered
by the difficulty of obtaining mice with natural
cancers.
Very interesting, too, is the study of the
relation of heredity to cancer. It is found
that certain innocent tumors of a lining of
the bowel “run in families”; and cancer is
apt to develop from these tumors. “The
genealogical trees of 13 of these families
have been worked out. In one family all
the members of one generation with one
exception died early from cancer.” This
is not proof that cancer can be inherited,
but it strongly suggests that there is an
hereditary predisposition to certain inno-
cent tumors which may become cancerous.
While research proceeds on the line of
producing an anti-cancer serum which will
immunise against cancer, much work is
being done on tar and other cancer-produc-
ing substances. A substance has been built
up synthetically which produces cancer in
mice in the same way as coal-tar applied
repeatedly to the skin of the animals; and
there is thus good ground for hope that the
discovery will soon be made of the actual
chemical molecule which causes tar cancer.
This done, a new chapter will be written in
the history of preventive medicine.
Meantime some progress is being made in
the treatment of the disease with radium;
and, though the death-roll in Australia is
very heavy, no less than 61 p.c. of the 300
cases in the operable carcinomata group
were apparently cured and 78 p.c. of the 597
operable cases* in the “malignant disease”
g roU p—all these treated within the last two
years at various centres in communication
with the energetic Cancer Research Com-
mittee of the Sydney University.


OSs
m
■r
“I’ve been smoking them for
over five years and have never
found them vary one iota! ”
CRAVEN
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 ,100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 143 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Victimisation” is in active progress along
the waterfront. Six members of the crew
of the Wear have been disqualified for six
. months because they failed to join in the
illegal strike engineered by the German
Communist Schelley. They were rather
apologetic, and several pleaded that they
had "misinterpreted the decision of the
meeting” which ordered them to stop work.
What they really misinterpreted was the
unimportance of the Australian worker in
his own country.
N.S.W. followers of Theodore are im-
ploring him not to leave them leaderless and
go after a seat in Queensland; and he
returns soothing answers. But their impor-
tunities must be embarrassing, for there
are likelier prospects up north than Dailey
M R. THEODORE ( adapting Tennyson to his
own case ): —
O tell ’em, swallow, that that knowest each,
That bright and fierce and fickle is the
South,
And dark and true and tender is the North.
O tell ’em, swallow, now my kite is flown,
Say to ’em, I do but wanton in the South,
But in the North long since a nest I made.
looks. Brisbane might be won if Colonel
Cameron decided not to stand again, and
there would be a chance in Oxley. Kennedy
would be an easier proposition than either,
though the vociferous Riordan has said he
will be blowed if he stands aside for Theo-
dore or anyone else, nor will “a good Gov-
ernment job,” which has been subtly men-
tioned. tempt him.
Sub-committees have been appointed by
the Commonwealth Bank and the N.S.W.
Government Savings Bank to discuss terms
on which the former might take over the
derelict and tow it to port. While wait-
ing for the result, some queer proposals
have been listened to —among them that the
affairs of both banks should be thrown into
a pool, along with those of any other sav-
ings banks which might feel that way, and
that a brand new United Savings Bank
should be formed. It is taking some people
quite a long while to realise the difference
between a derelict which w’ants help to reach
port and a vessel under steam which might
do the towage job.
In Sydney during the N.S.W. election
campaign it was hard to get beyond hearing
of members of the Federal public-service
organisations spouting for Lang. At times
they seemed to be at nearly every street
corner, and their block vote and influence
contributed largely to the mob-leader’s
triumph. Now, as a result of their protests
to the Seullin Government, which will be
needing their votes itself in a few months,
these public-service politicians have been
exempted from most of Lang’s unemploy-
ment-relief tax. Some of them will pay
44d. in the £; the rest 3d. —the ordinary
bloke pays a shilling. It is a rank swindle
on the ordinary bloke, but it is thought that
the ordinary bloke will stand anything.
The unfortunate N. S. Wales Government
Savings Bank depositor who was driven on
to the dole may now get his food orders
without going to the police. Mr. Lang has
consented to Savings Bank branches issu-
ing them. The only difference is that if
the unfortunate old depositor gets his order
for meat or groceries from the police station,
the Treasury pays; while if he gets it from
the bank, the amount is charged up in his
book. So long as the u.o.d. has a bob in
liis book he is a damned capitalist, to be
fleeced accordingly.
By 21 to 30 Vic. Upper House laid aside
the Unemployment Relief Bill, and sent the
Wheat and Flour Acquisition Bill, designed
to fix the price of wheat for local con-
sumption at 4s. a* bushel, to keep it com-
pany. But the Hogans are still hanging-
on to office by the slender thread of Bur-
nett Gray’s vote. They are planning
another Relief Bill, but evidently an elec-
tion will have to be held to straighten out
things. The present Assembly was elected
on Nov. 30, 1929, and 12 days later Hogan
became Premier.
Expenditure on war pensions, some of
which were cut, is down £355,000 on four
months of the financial year, the amount
being £2,878,000 compared with £3,233,000
for the corresponding period of 1930-31. But
expenditure on old-age and invalid pensions,
£3.528,000, is only down £24,000. More
and more people are applying for these
pensions, and with wool and wheat prices
still unprofitable, in spite of the recent
spurt, the Government is trying to pay
them all 17s. 6d. a week. It would be far
more sensible to take another 2s. 6d. off
(adding a cost-of-living allowance in the
N.T. and other dear places, if it isn’t uncon-
stitooshunal) and apply the .saving to reduc-
tion of taxes. It might be better for the
pensioners themselves in the long run. By
overdoing the dole business the British Labor
Government nearly brought about a crash in
which there would have been little left for
doles.
There is a tendency to draw comparisons
between Lang’s crude bank smash and the
gentlemanly bank crisis of 1893. They are
miles apart. Thirty-eight years ago eight
banks doing business in N.S.W. closed their
doors, but they reopened early for new busi-
ness, taking deposits “in trust.” There wasn’t
in the case of these “capitalistic” enterprises
the long paralysed interval which elapsed
between the closing of Lang’s old State bank
and the opening of his new one, nor were
the premises meanwhile let as lottery shops.
The period of nominal suspension varied
from 31 days to 128 days. Then, by arrange-
ment, the banks paid their creditors with
interest-bearing paper which had a value on
the Stock Exchange. After some 200 days
Lang hasn’t even seen his old depositors, nor
have they been able to see him, for he is
always out when they call. The art of going
broke gracefully is unknown to Lang.
Queer things can be made law in N. S.
Wales these days. A man who owns a
motor-car may take his neighbor for a run
on Sundays; but if the neighbor, knowing
that the owner is no millionaire, insists
on paying for a fill of petrol, the owner is
liable to a fine of £5OO unless he has regis-
tered the car as a public vehicle and pays
the Transport Department Id. per passenger'
“Well, Constable Lang, what’s the charge
against this fellie? He looks a bad
lot!”
“Bad, Sergeant! Why, I not only saw him
walking to his office along a tram
route; I heard him tell a friend ’twas
a fine morning and he should walk,
too.”
per mile. What happens if, instead of
paying for the fill of petrol, the neighbor
shouts the owner and his wife to the
pitchers the next Saturday night, not even
Mr. Lang’s prize bull knows.
While Vic. Opposition-leader Argyle
was attending the Lud Mayor’s inaugural
dinner in Melbourne the other night some
fiend placed a bomb under the mat on the
front verandah of his villa at South Yarra,
two miles from the city. Providentially
nobody was hurt and no great damage was
done to property. A few days before, in a
speech at the Protestant Federation bazaar,
Argyle had pitched into the Communists,
but that was nothing new for him. He had
made things much hotter for criminals w r itli
bomb-throwing inclinations in 1929, when,
The Man with the Club Foot: “As dey
say in dair capitalistic sheeps, vimmen
an’ children first!”
as a result of the murderous outrages which
occurred during the waterside strike, he
pushed through Parliament the law requiring
dubious characters to account for the pos-
session of explosives. A few weeks ago a
bogus ad. in a morning paper brought hun-
dreds of poor devils to Argyle’,s place in
search of work. The criminal classes may
destroy him; they will never intimidate him.
Something can be said for pushing motor -
’buses off routes where they compete with
State trams and trains, but not for the
measure, which ordered the gardener not to
use his own vehicle to run his own produce
to market. He loads up in the cool of the
evening alongside his vegetable or fruit
patch, and runs the stuff direct on to the
market floor without another handling. Noth-
ing can take the place of that. Originally
a tax was fixed with the one idea of making
this haulage impossible. When it was Shown
that the railways couldn’t do the job, no
matter what they charged, the new Traffic
Board reduced the tax. But that is no
good. Either the rail can do this job or it
can’t. If it can, and the State says it
should, then the prohibitive tax is all right.
If it. can’t, then there is no justice in any
tax at all. The board is, in, fact, making a
tax out of what was never intended to be
a tax.
One Queensland way of dealing with
the unemployed, for whom Lang, with
double the Queensland tax, can’t find any
form of exertion except shuffling along to
the dole-ticket offices, is to put men on small
blocks within marketing reach of the city.
One organisation has persuaded the Bris-
bane Council to subdivide 200 acres into
blocks on which 20 men will be settled. They
will ballot for the blocks, which are to cost
£25 apiece, the organisers finding the de-
posit, £2, and the earlier payments, which
are spread over five years. Sizer, Minister
of Labor and Industry, has undertaken to
subsidise, to the extent of 10s. a week for
12 month's, any body of unemployed, up to
1000, for whom suitable land within 100
miles of Brisbane may be made available.
This is in reply to another private organisa-
tion which is trying to place out-of-works
on small holdings.
Of course the tariff needs combing; indus-
try isn’t a static, thing, and so long as it
changes so long will the tariff need re-adjust-
ing. Thus far there has been a tendency
to let high-tariff lines pass unchallenged
even though there has been no early hope
of making the goods in this country. But
the moment it is possible to build ‘up an
export trade, these unjustified duties do
matter —you can pass them on to your own
people; you can't to the outsider. One of
the most promising Australian export lines
is biscuits; Asia could take a million
cases a year. But they have to be packed for
export in grease-proof paper; and, though
vegetable parchment, in which butter is
packed, is admitted free, “greaseproof,”
which serves precisely the same purpose for
biscuits, carries a duty of £ll per ton plus
50 p.c. Not a pound of it is made in Aus-
tralia; even Britain doesn’t make it in
quantity. The one result of the duty, apart
from the revenue it yields, is to hamper the
Australian export trade and make our
recovery more difficult.
Defiant admission of a Canadian Com-
munist, one of a band who have been sen-
tenced to long terms of imprisonment, with
deportation, at Toronto, while the weak Aus-
tralian Government rebukes the New Guard :
Every member of the party is taught to be loyal
to the Soviet in the event of war between Canada
and Russia. Members of the party are taught loyalty
to the Soviet no matter who is the aggressor. The
party believes in a dictatorship of the proletariat
and is organising a defence corps.
“The Soviet first” is also the motto of the
Australian comrades. Some of them are
active in the Labor party; the pilgrim to
Moscow who boasted that Revolution had
“stepped on the stage in Australia” is to
be a “Labor” candidate for a Federal seat.
Before they hand in his nomination paper
or “endorse” any more of his kind the
A.L.P. bosses had better have a long look
at section 44 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution, which says: “Any person who
is under any acknowledgment of allegiance,
obedience or adherence to a foreign power
....shall be incapable of being chosen or
of sitting as a Senator or a member of the
House of Representatives.”
Tas. Assembly has been discussing a
motion by Campbell, the chairman of com-
mittees, to reduce the number of members
from 30 to 20, and the Leg. Council from
IS to 10. Lands Minister Lee .suggested
that provision should be made for the
reduced Houses to sit together in debate
and vote separately, since to maintain a
separate chamber and staff for 10 members
would be practically inviting the taxpayers
to demand abolition. Lee went ou to say
that the whole question of the cost and effec-
tiveness of government in Australia would
have to be considered; “as far as State
finances are concerned,” he asserted, “uni-
fication is in operation already.” Ou this
point Labor-leader Ogilvie, for once, agreed
with him. These gentlemen would know
better if they lived in Lang’s State.
Lang has conferred a District Court
Judgeship on J. S. Clancy, a defeated Labor
candidate, who has been a practising bar-
rister for a whole three years; and more
good billets will be available for defeated
Labor candidates and the like presently.
A Royal Commissioner has found the three
members of the Western Lands Board
guilty of gross neglect, incompetence (evi-
“Mr. Clancy’s elevation to the District Court bench
was announced at a footballers’ social. Like the
Attorney-General, Mr. Lamaro, the new Judge is
a football enthusiast. Not so Mr. Landa, M.LIA.,
who it was thought might be appointed."
“You see how it is, Landa; but, look here.
Play forward for the Bondi Beetle-
crushers and you’ll be Chief Justice
yet.”
denced, he declares, in the resumption of
the Canally estate at a fancy price) and
deadheadism (they travelled on the nod, a
thing abhorrent to Labor politicians) ; and
the Government has given them a month to
prove themselves guiltless. That means
only that the new appointments will not
be announced for a month. Hustle, com-
rades ; there is not a moment to be lost!
When Federation began Westralia had
4.76 p.c. of the total population of the
Commonwealth. At the end of 1929 it had
6.50 p.c. The' population of Perth is more
than five times the size it was in 1901.
No other capital has much more than
doubled. Westralia’s State taxation is only
£4 Ss. 7d. per inhabitant per annum, as
compared with £6 2s. 3d. in N.S.W., £5 3s.
in Queensland, £6 Os. 2d. in South Aus. and
£5 2s. 4d. in Tasmania. Railway earnings
are higher than those of N. S. Wales,
Queensland, South Australia, or Tasmania.
The average factory wage is higher than
that of Queensland, Victoria, South Aus-
tralia or Tasmania and about £l2 a year
per worker above the Australian average.
The percentage of unemployed, by last
returns,_ wa,s less than that of N.S.W., South
Australia or Tasmania and a trifle below
the Australian average. Yet the Perth
secessionists say their State has been
blighted by Federation and ruined bv the
tariff.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bill O’C.”: Paddy Glynn, in spite of his
rather lugubrious look, which Low caught so
well, and the dead seriousness with which he
took himself and his “illoquence,” had the
instincts of the devil-may-care Irish sports-
man immortalised by Charles Lever. When
he followed the Adelaide Hounds 40 years
ago Paddy rode a mare called Modesty, and,
though he frequently parted company with
his mount abruptly, he always came back for
more. On one occasion at a meet near the
city Modesty incontinently bolted with her
DOGS I HAVE MET—THE COLONEL.
rider into the crowd, finishing up with a tre-
mendous bound partly over and partly
through a waggonette occupied by ladies,
Barring a shake-up for Paddy and a wrecked
vehicle no material damage was done to
the ladies—or Modesty. Rumor persisted
that as he sailed through on his “broth of a
lape” Paddy removed his scarlet cap with a
courtly I ardon my ould-fashioneo ho-rr-se,
la-a-dies.
*„ *. , * rn -m r
Slam ; The visit of 11. I. hostel, the
bridge-playing expert, unloosed the worst
passions of local contract enthusiasts.
Severai, unable to contain themselves m face
of his alleged disparagement of the new
game, complained to the S. M. Herald, and
to listen to private comments one might
lmagine he was a dangerous criminal.
h oster s newspaper replies w’ere suave hut
deadly, and his privately-expressed opinions
- ns , critics deadly and by no means suave,
scientists often go 011 111 the same way.
A doctor who pursues a germ and fails
to find it or, worse, finds a wrong germ,
laslies half the profession to fury. 111 Syd-
ney just now a couple of well-meaning
overseas cancer investigators are being
furiously sneered at as plagiarists. The
Japanese who first announced the connec-
tion between syphilis and G.P.I. preferred
death to the gibes of the profession when
he made an error a couple of years ago. But
perhaps the deepest loathing of all prevails
between the respective advocates of boiled
and raw milk for babies. I have seen
normally amiable, self-controlled females go
white with passion on this issue, and what
some of them have said about notorious
supporters of the opposition milk school
doesn’t hear reproduction in a family paper,
All interesting feature of these rows over
trivialities is that they don’t depend on
propaganda, as political or sectarian rows
do. They spring, like Minerva, fully armed
from the controversialists’ surcharged
hearts.
* * *
“Verey Light”; In the A.I.F. camps in
England, where the q.-m. sergeants were
notoriously hard-hearted when it came to
issuing new uniforms and always insisted
on “unserviceable” garments in exchange,
the accepted practice was to speed up the
worn-outness by scoring with the prongs of
a fork the elbows of a
tunic and the seat or
knees of strides. At
the first wearing after
such treatment the
Digger’s anatomy pro-
truded. and the quarter-
bloke had no case. One
“Bed Boards,” a hut
orderly at a Weymouth
camp, specialised in the
supply of ready-treated
garments for a few
shillings. His method
of garnering raw ma-
terial was ingenious.
His charges were C 3
men, awaiting return
to Aussie. Invariably
“marching-out” time
for a boat-roll was in
the early a.m. hours,
and just as invariably
there were celebrations
in the wet canteen the
previous night. After
these had concluded
Bed Boards woul d
appear on the scene,
solicitous, remove the
boots of the sozzled
ones and bed them
down, .artfully insinuat-
ing during the process
a few specks of the
“itch powder” he ob-
tained through his
cobber in the dispen-
sary. In due course the Digger would arise
cursing and scratching, make a hasty change
of raiment, and present the discards to Bed
Boards with a few picturesque remarks on
their occupants.
ij: :|c *
“Taltingan”: Old hands rubbed old eyes
the other day when they saw the Sydney
Meat Preserving Co. lumped with other big
stockbuyers at Ilomebush. If there is no
difference between them, things must have
changed. A Stock Exchange veteran, who
lived down into the last gen-
eration, reckoned the S. M.
P. Co. the cleverest idea in
cos. ever launched in Aus-
tralia. Alban Gee it was who
went to various stock-
growers and said: “Look,
your trouble is that the
buyers in Sydney combine to
beat you. Now, you can com-
bine to beat them. Put up
meat-preserving work s”—
Gee was a packing expert
imported by the pioneer
Ramornie Co. —“and have a
buyer always in the market.
When they slack off, your
own man bids up. But —oh
no! you don’t pay what you
bid. As stockgrowers you’ll
all agree to allow the S. M.
I‘. Co. an eighth or a farth-
ing per pound on its pur-
chases. So we can bid £lO
knowing that really we’ll have
to pay only £9 ; but in order
to beat us, all the other
buyers will have to bid higher
than £lO. Dividends? Oh
no, I hope we’ll never pay
dividends. I want to bid so
high that it will barely pay
us; for don’t you see, for
every single beast we buy at
a high price from our own
shareholders we’ll make the
other buyers pay a higher
in-ice for perhaps 50 beasts.”
The co. was formed and never
paid a dividend, and no share-
holder ever wanted it to until
a bundle of shares were left
by will to a man who didn’t
own a hoof jif stock. “Where
do I come fn?” he asked the
directors presently. “As far
as we can see, nowhere,”
they told him. They contested
an action which he brought
(and lost) to compel them to pay dividends,
Then they agreed that it wasn t quite a fair
thing and bought him out. And down to a
few years ago, at any rate, it was the co.
that made pots of money for its shareholders
by not earning a bean,
.** * *
“2nd Divvy”; Armistice commemorations
are ! K ,gi nn j n g to leave me very cold. I
watched one for a few minutes last week,
and passed on with a slight feeling of
nausea. Present in prominent positions were
the usua ] politicians and Empire men (some
w i lo m were eligible to go’ overseas 15
s ago and didn’t), half a dozen base-
wauails an d a few genuine soldiers—dragged
j u regcue the proceedings from complete
banality. Perhaps I was feeling cynical, liav-
j Ufd - read a newspaper story about des-
titiite English V.C.’s. but it occurred to me
tkat Gicse ceremonies amount to strong
arguments for shirking the next war. “Thank
p; od that’s paid,” said Micawber, and wrote
Ms I0U; aud “ T i lfmk God that’s paid,”
gays the patriotic fraud, and preserves a two-
minutes’ silence once a year. The soldier is
on ]y popular while he is fighting, or after
k e ’} iag keen killed. He begins to be dis-
jjked and avoided when a war ends, and his
s t oc k continues to slump until another war
starts
‘ ’ ... . s
“Oblivion”: Thirteen years have gone
since the Armistice, but there are still many
thousands then recorded as “Missing” who
have never since been heard of. Britain
has the smallest number, 1000. and Italy
comes next with 5000. France has failed
to trace 48,000 men, and Germany 24,000
—an army corps in itself. It doesn’t follow
that all are dead. Other wars have shown
that men tired of their old associations
have seized opportunities to break with prior
connections and disappear, to emerge again
under a new name and in a new life.
# * * *
“Farleigli”: Touching “The Ragged Thir-
teen” of the Westralian goldfields, recently
mentioned, old George Payze, who kept a hotel
at Cue and died some 30 years ago, told me
more about them than I ever gathered else-
where. George himself, if he had only
known it. was a far more picturesque char-
acter than any of the 13 wanderers. He was
A TEMPER LIKE HER’S
“Do you take after your mummy or your daddy?”
“It depends on who gets in first when I’m being cross.”
a butcher by trade, and sold me many a leg
of mutton ; but when prosperity came to him
(and it often arrived very rapidly in those
days) George decided that there was more
to be got out of selling beer than meat.
Out of a fairly wide experience I put him
down as absolutely the best publican I ever
knew; there was a bottle on the top of the
ice-chest for a friend, even if he were only
a dry blower—and a lot. of his customers
were dryblowers. But his opinion of The
Ragged Thirteen” was that they were just
plain crooks.
“Cato”: Curious how many avocations,
vaguely supposed to be masculine, women,
invade—and desert. Jennie probably shaves
and haircuts a good deal better than Jack,
having a lighter touch, but she has never
'arrived, in English-speaking communities
anyhow, on more than the outskirts of the
trade. Over 40 years ago some enterprising
Frenchman staffed a shop with lady barbers
in Chancery-lane, London, and the pleas-
ing novelty made it an instant success. A
young Englishman told me the other day
of a flourishing establishment in Kmgsway
at which all the chairs were attended to by
feminine operators, and complained that
there was nothing of the sort in Sydney.
Where George-street winds away to the
Rocks there used to be a place in which
French girls plied the razor, but apparently
it outlived its popularity. One of my Eng-
lish friend’s preferences for the other sex as
a remover of whiskers was that she would
talk about everything except horses.
* * *
“Der Jong” : During the tremendous hail-
storm in Sydney a press photographer got
a picture of horses with
their rumps turned to
the pelting blast. There
is nothing a horse hates
more than hail, and I
have never known one
who could be persuaded
to face even a light
fall if the wind was
driving it, the invari-
able procedure being to
face right about until
the storm had passed.
Sudden and heavy hail
will often stampede
horses in large numbers.
Writer’s regiment was
on a night march with
Flumer’s column in the
Transvaal in 1901, the
object being to roll up a
big Boer commando at
daybreak. While dis-
mounted and holding
horses about midnight
the column had to con-
tend with a hailstorm.
Its steeds bolted and
scattered all over the
veldt. Most were re-
covered next morning,
but the surprise was off.
Pater we heard that
“Joe” had wind of our
coming and had pre-
pared a warm welcome,
so perhaps the hail-
storm was providential.
“Blo^gs”: I was plodding along in my
’op m odcl when a lad on a motor-oace
arrived from a side street at between o 0 and
60 m.p.li. and ran into me broadside on.
was on the near side of my road, and
travelling slowly, but lie lut me on my right,
so the fool-law says that I am responsible
for his damages as well as my own. The
rule that a motorist , lias the nght °f way
over cars to his left is responsible for most
of Sydney’s traffic accidents. Speed-liogs
and nearly all motor-bikists belong to that
category—take it as a license to travel, as
the coach-drivers used to say ‘ out .1 hand
qpross intersections on their left. It means
that a driver to be really safe must stop
at every “blind” corner on Ins right, and
peer round it before proceeding. Nothing
else would have averted my smash. There
are cities which clamor for speed-limits,
and Sydney, with its old-fashioned trams
and winding narrow streets, is conspicuously
one of them. Fifteen m.p.h. should be the
limit in the city and inner suburbs. If it
were rigidly enforced, in conjunction with
the right-of-way rule, traffic accidents would
be reduced by at least 50 per cent.
:]: * * *
“M. de Paris”; I am indebted to a pro-
fessional journal for the account of a new
method of execution in America. Sosne time
ago the State of Nevada resolved to deal
with its malefactors by poison gas intro-
duced into a lethal chamber. In the opening
demonstration the condemned was placed in
a chamber with glass windows. Through
this an interested group of SO spectators
Watched the process. Hydrocyanic gas was
used. It is supposed to kill instantaneously,
but the unhappy patient prolonged the agony
horribly by holding his breath to the last
extremity in an attempt to ward off the
inevitable. According to the medical experts
it took 14 minutes to kill him. Like the
electric-chair, it seems a doubtful improve-
ment on the axe or the guillotine, or even
hanging. All these call for a certain' amount
of artistry on the part of the executioner,
whereas any amateur may turn on a gas flow
or an electric current.
“Strathnaver,” back from his travels: —
We think we have more floor-space to let in
Australia, Sydney especially, than we shall fill in
20 years; but you ought to see what some other
eities have. There are big blocks in London built
over two years that have never had a tenant. And
it’s not only along the Thames, either, though most
of the white elephants are stalled there; right in
the city there are big buildings whose rents have
been cut to one-third and still can’t find takers.
Things are even worse in that way in New York
--as far as I could see, they are worse in gold-
soaked N’York than anywhere else. Largely that
is due to the building of three or four huge car-
buncles like the vast Chrysler letting proposition.
The N’York way during this last building boom
was very interesting. Here was ground which
somebody whose idle money was hurting him decided
might hold a good letting block. Mostly after
getting in a few friends suffering from the same
disease they had rough plans prepared. Then they
went to a concern which had outgrown its original
WHAT ART HAS TO SUFFER.
“I've made a sketch on my cuff. What do you advise, me to
do with it?”
“Hard luck, old mail—can’t the laundry get it out?”
premises and was scattered over three or four loca-
tions. “See here,” they said, “we’re putting up a
78-storey building on so-and-so. Now a name doesn’t
matter to us. You come in and take eight or ten
floors for 28 years, and for an extra 100,000 dollars
we’ll call it with your name.” If they were in-
terested the eight or ten floors were laid out to
suit the lessees; their own architects were called in
on the planning. In the Chrysler Building, for
instance, the Texaco Co. has its NA. headquai tei s,
eight floors it has, with a lift system of its own.
The whole building was let before the foundations
were put in, though later much of it was sub-let.
Lindbergh, whose name pulls harder in some circles
than the President’s, "was got in as a tenant, and
soon half the aviation cos. in New York were
clustered around. Up in their quarter, about the
74th floor, there is the Cloud Club —with something
more like an Australian bar, brass foot-rest and
all than you’ll find almost anywhere else in the
Eastern States.
THE TALKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met him walking down the street.
"Sterewth!” he said, “if it ain’t Lou!
I’m mighty glad we chanced to meet;
And not half lookin’ all right too.
“And how is business in your line?
You workin’ in the same place still?
My oath,” he said, “you’re lookin’ fine,
And dressed up too, just fit to kill.
“And how’s the missus and the kid?
Oh. I forgot, you haven’t one.
You'd look more worried if you did.”
He laughed as if he thought that fun.
“And how’s the world been treatin’ you?”
Not pausing once, he hurried on :
“Hope the bad times aren’t beatin’ you;
I think the worst of them has gone.
“The other day I met Alf Jones—
You must remember Alf —nice cove—
Tells me a tidy place he owns,
He’s better off than me, by Jove!
“Grown into quite a swell chap too,
But talk! His like you never heard.
Well, must he movin’. So long, Lou!”
He went. I hadn’t said a word.
n.s.w.
A. D. M.


Bumpkin”: The s.s. Edina is probably
the first Australian excursion steamer to
have an article and a leader devoted to
it in a London daily. The “Morning Post”
has suddenly discovered romantic interest
for its readers in the old vessel, which was
built of English steel in 1877, and still
pants about the harbor under the propul-
sion of its original engines, though when
it began its local career the engines
were regarded as mere auxiliaries to the
A r essel’s sails. As a tribute to British
engineering the Edina possibly has its
equals, but I doubt if any craft has the
same record for collisions. In 1898 she
hit and remoA r ed from this troubled sphere
the Manawatu, off Williamstown. In the
following year she biffed and sank the
Excelsior, near Geelong, in five minutes and
very nearly two pieces. In 1928 she sank
the tug Hovel. Her other, affairs have been
numerous but less sensational. The extra-
ordinary thing is that she escaped practically
unscathed from all of the encounters.
* * * *
“Rustclluck” : The amorous propensities of
Balkan royal families seem to furnish their
section of Europe with more than its fair
share of trouble. King Milan of Serbia was
forced to abdicate some 40 years ago be-
cause of his domestic infelicities and the
tenaency of his subjects to stand by Queen
Natalie. His son Alexander was murdered,
and the Obrenovitcli dynasty disappeared
Avith him, because he married the wrong
woman, one of his mother’s ladies-in-waiting,
and his subjects, or the army officers, dis-
JOB CONTROL.
FIRST OFFICER: “Am I drunk, or is that the skipper mopping the
deck?”
SECOND OFFICER: “You’re sober; he’s building himself in with the
crew so that they’ll take his side against the cook.”
approved of both of them. King Carol of
Roumania nearly lost his throne, or the
reversion of it, because of an attachment for
a beautiful Jewess regarded as reprehen-
sible in a married prince, and his position
probably remains precarious. Now Prince
Nicholas, his brother, has come into invidious
limelight by marrying the divorced wife of
a country lawyer. There was an attempt to
keep the ceremony secret, but one of ex-
Queen Marie’s ladies-in-waiting, who was
herself in love with the Prince, blew the
gaff. Geographically. I suppose, Roumania
isn’t a Balkan kingdom—it is a Latin isle
in a Slav sea —but its royalties seem to
suffer from too much love of loving, like
those of neighboring countries.
* * * *
“Lombro”: Some queer impulses are re-
sponsible for the return of conscience money.
The other day in Sydney a thief wheedled
an unsophisticated girl out of £46 which
she had just drawn from the bank and was
carrying back to the firm which employs
her; he represented himself as an officer of
the bank who had been sent to retrieve the
notes on the ground that there was some-
thing wrong with them. It was the meanest
kind of trick, and the operator was so
plausible that it is hard to feature him as
an amateur. It certainly looked a million
to one against his finding the burden
of his easy money more than he could
bear. Yet, after the firm had written
off the £46 as a dead loss, the victim
was told over the telephone that £4O was
on the way back to her —it arrived a few
hours later —and that the marauder was only
keeping the balance because he was down
and out, and would return it as soon as
things mended a bit. It presents a curious
problem in psychology, and some may find
a glimmer of romance in it. Probably no-
body but an over-trustful girl would have
been laken down so easily; and the very
impulse to reparation looks to ha\ T e arisen,
incongruously enough, from precisely the
same consideration.
* * * *
“Marsh”: “Sol M.” and “Centurion” (B.
4/11/’3l) are doubtless correct in tneir ridi-
cule of the statement of the Venezuelan
soldier of fortune who said that a rooster,
carried by a Turk, spoiled a projected attack
by croAving at the crucial moment. But a
fox-terrier dog did enlighten a small detach-
ment of Tommies at Dueidar, just before
stand-to one morning, by barking that
strangers were outside the wire entangle-
ment. This was long before Abdul’s unsuc-
cessful attempt to take the Canal defences.
That little foxy certainly saved the small
Tommy outpost from annihilation.
* =S :i= *
“Lex” : Sydney “Sun” asked recently :—-
Is it possible for the eye of a murdered person
to retain in death a picture of his or her slayer?
And, if so, can this eye-picture be photographed and
used as evidence ?
It seems that a murdered girl was photo-
graphed in Hungary, “and clearly outlined
in one of the wide-opened eyes was the minia-
ture picture of a man in rough garb and with'
uplifted knife.” The evidence is to be used
against a villager, and “its production is
being awaited with keen interest by scientists
and criminologists alike.” The mystery is
that the scientists should be interested —-
always assuming they exist. The legend
about the capacity of the human eye to retain
pictures after death is very old, but the
only place I ever heard of it succeeding was
in fiction. The “Nineteenth Centurv” pub-
lished some fine horror yarns 30-odd years
ago (they appeared in book form as “Aut
Diabolus Aut Nihil”), and one was about
a French murderer who had refused to con-
fess before being guillotined. A doctor stood
behind him as the axe was about to fall,
repeating the name of the supposed victim.
And, sure enough, his eyes contained a pic-
ture of the lady when photographed a few
seconds after death. The story was said to
be founded _on fact, and I have heard it
repeated with variations scores of times
since, but I never met an oculist who didn’t
laugh at it.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Probably no more remarkable
reason for rioting Avas ever given than that
advanced by the Jewish students of Cracow
University, Poland. They complained bit-
terly that too many
Christian corpses
were being used for
dissection in the
anatomy classes,
a n d demanded
that cadavers of
their own religion
should be provided
in equal propor-
tions. I once got
mixed up in a riot
in Singapore that
had an opposite
origin. The Gov-
ernment Avas build-
ing a bridge. The
foundations at one
end Avere shaky,
and it was per-
sistently rumored
that the authori-
ties had decided to
bury the heads of
100 Chinese coolies
under the place of
subsidence to pre-
vent disaster. For a
long time no rick-
shaw-runner would
take me beyond the
confines of the
tOAvn after dark
for love or money,
and I had to walk
home to my quar-
ters. Mutilation of
the body is abhorred
by most Asiatic
races. A man must
be in one piece
before he can de-
cently confront his
Maker. Until the
deposition of the
Manclius the pro-
hibition against
dissection was so
strong that the
Emperor Chi e n-
lung had to be con-
tent to be operated on by a surgeon whose
chief qualification for his job was that he
had handled the bones of bullocks at the
abattoirs.
“Farleigh” : Churches move on, discarding
old beliefs as outworn superstitions, but now
and again they crop up again, even in legal
findings. A Lancashire coroner’s jury
affords the latest instance of this; it had
to inquire into the death of a suicide who
had been addicted to cursing his wife and
beating his children, and after hearing a
more than ordinarily harrowing tale it re-
turned a verdict —which the coroner seems
to have accepted—that the deceased had
been “possessed of an evil spirit.” Other
people have done similarly reprehensible
things, and have been scheduled merely as
insane, but in this case the delinquent was a
Church of England vicar, which doubtless
decided a charitable-minded jury to fall back
on the New Testament for an explanation of
his aberrations. It may moan much the
same-thing, but it sounds a little better,
there being no known method of exorcising
evil spirits nowadays.
* * * $
“Robot” : Fact continues to catch up with
fiction. Twenty years ago Kipling wrote
a story of a.d. 2000 entitled “As Easy as
ABC.” It told how a party of officials in
charge of the world’s affairs visited semi-
rebellious America in an airship and were
attacked by a mowing-machine working in
the field they landed on. The untended
machine was controlled by radio and was
directed by someone who objected to their
presence. According to the cables, farm
implements capable of being operated in
the same way are now on the market
ia America. In a recent test one of them
ploughed continuously for 24 hours, an auto-
matic device reversing the route of the
machine as soon as it reached the end of
its lonely furrow.
“Feng-Shui”: Whatever can be said on
behalf of extra-territoriality in a backward
country like China, there is no justification
for quoting the murder of John Tlior-
burn in its favor. Thor-
burn was a young Eng-
lishman who was en-
gaged in some sort of
journalistic work. He
ventured in disguise
outside the foreign set-
tlement in Shanghai and
vanished as completely
as if the earth had swal-
lowed him. The British
BEACH ECONOMICS.
LOVESICK BOY: “I dunno what we’re going to do. We’re only getting sevenpence a pound
for our wool and it costs more than that.”
HELPFUL GIRL: “Wouldn’t it pay you better to sell it by the skein?”
Government started asking the Chinese
authorities pointed questions, and after long
negotiations the truth eventuated. Thor-
burn had been arrested as a suspicious
character near Quinsan, a walled city where
Gordon fought his most decisive battle
against the Taiping rebels. He killed two
gendarmes before he submitted, and was
taken to Suchow and examined by a colonel,
who lost his temper and shot him. Fright-
ened at the inevitable consequences the
colonel destroyed all the evidence, including
the corpse, and swore his bodyguard to
secrecy. He is to get 14 years. It is
difficult to see how extra-territoriality or
its absence would have affected the issue.
If Thorburn had been murdered under similar
circumstances in a South American republic,
where Britishers do not enjoy immunity from
local jurisdiction, the British Government
would have had to go through the same
procedure. As the Celestial leaders have
pledged themselves to see consular courts
abolished by Christmas, they are deadly
anxious to appear to be on their best
behavior. There was a time when the country
would have demanded the execution of two
Britishers in expiation of the death of the
two Chinese gendarmes.
❖ ❖ X
“R.V.”: It was regarded as a great
triumph for Australian wireless that the
broadcast of the
Cup was
“h o okc d-u p”
with hundreds
of stations in
America, but I
wonder what
Uncle Sam
thought of one
item in the pro-
ceed ings. It
began with a
little disserta-
tion on the
spirit of sports-
manship as
exemplified by
the world in-
terest in this
great racing
event, and glided
into a warning
to owners of
radio sets in
Australia who
basely availed
themselves of
the programmes
provided with-
out having paid
their license
fees. Followed
the usual quota-
tion from an
English news-
paper concern-
ing the pirates
of the .ether in the Cold Land, and how the
authorities had visited pains and penalties
on those caught red-handed !
* * :!: *
“Swifter”: A ruling of some importance
to sailormen in general and the R.A.N. in
particular was given by the N.S.W. Full
Court the other day. A R.A.N. rating was
a petitioner in divorce, and the Judge in
the lower court held that, as he was at
the bid and call of the Navy and might have
to go .wherever he was sent, he had no fixed
domicile. The petitioner had been born in
Brisbane, but nominated Sydney as liis home
port. The Full. Court decided that he was
quite within liis rights, and, finding the
issue of domicile proved, ordered the case
back to the lower court on the issue of
desertion. It seems fair enough in cases
where the petitioner has a wife in only one
port.
“Centurion”: The War Office
must be throwing off its old-time
inertia. Frank Yerbury, of Bath,
has just received the distinguished
conduct medal for gallantry in
action at El Teb, which was fought
in 1884, when General Stewart’s
forces clashed with those of the
Mahdi under Osman Digna. As
the medal carries with it an annual
pension of £lO the Zummerzet-
shire lad should hardly be short of cider
money for many a day to come. The nearest
W.O. activity to this the writer can recall
is the case of a great-grandfather who served
under Moore at Corunna. He got his
Peninsular medal in 1860 —51 years after
the scrap.
$ $ $ $
“Uramao” : Dunedin has been celebrating
the centenary of the first settlement in
Otago by the Weller brothers. Joseph and
Edward Weller, of Sydney, who were in the
whaling business, bought the craft Lucy Ann
from the N.S.W. Government, loaded her up
with, among other things, axes, rum and
tobacco, and dispatched her with a number
of settlers for Otago harbor. A grandson
of Edward Weller, who married the daughter
of Taiaroa, the Maori chief, was at the cele-
brations. Joseph Weller died, and liis body
was dispatched to Sydney in a puncheon of
rum a.s a preservative.
* * * *
“Gad,” on the Sunshine Track:—
Bundaberg is (outwardly) a most prosperous-
looking place. The town proper consists mostly of
one main street, but it is the most main street
I have yet seen in Australia, being half as wide as
o’Connell--street, Dublin. Half-way along it is the
war memorial, with a very Atkins-like Digger on
top; while on the bank of the Burnett River, a
stone’s-throw away, are the Digger Memorial Baths,
PROPITIATING THE GODS.
“I had to come to-night. The wife last week found a letter I'd for-
gotten to post.”
“You’re lucky Mine found one I’d forgotten to burn.”
the foundation-stone of which was laid by Ethel
Campbell, of Durban.
Though it is not the sort of thing that guide-
books usually boast of, as an observer I feel bound
to mention the existence here of the most palatial
thing of the sort in all the world. In the offing
it looks like a mosque, but on closer inspection
what appeared before as a muezzin’s tower is revealed
as a picturesque lamp extending some 20 feet
or so into the air and supported by a column. The
approach is by way of a terra-cotta walk with
mossy-like lawns on cither side superbly coiffured.
Then one comes face to face with two notices on
either side on terra-cotta slabs, and in case one
is still (absent-mindedly) on the wrong side, there'
are two more notices, on aureoled plaques, at each
entrance. The inside is quite in harmony with the
outside, and even boasts of a mirror in that section
which is, so courteously, labelled “Gentlemen.”
RONDEAU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Martin-place, where, swift and slow,
Unnumbered feet go to and fro,
Between high buildings, grey and stern,
The zinnias flame, the roses burn,
And violets in purple glow
From gardens elves of morning know,
And poppies make a gallant show,
And beauty waits at every turn
In Martin-place.
Though dark the tide of years may flow
Between, as seasons come and go
The spirit shall in dreams return
To walk with spring, ’mid flowers and fern,
vY hen scented winds are soft and low
In Martin-place.
N.S.w.
NELLIE A. EVANS.


I offer you at
Carlyon’s, Melbourne
1. The greatest refined hotel
value in Australia.
2. Free garage accommo-
dation for motorists.
3. A situation right oppo-
site Spencer Street station,
saving taxi fares.
4. The following reduced
tariff: Single rooms from
4/6 per day; double
from 7/6; room with
breakfast, from 6/6
single or 11/6 double ;
all less 1.0% if stay-
ing one week or more ;
all meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Full board from
10/6 per day, 65/-
per week, both
nett. Special
quotations
for con-
ferences,
bowling _
teams, sporting bodies, etc. Please write for
detailed tariff card of reduced rates.
WIN FOWLES, Governing Director,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer Street, Melbourne.
I*
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Director s:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman); ..
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birehin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
The “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly
enables you to keep watch
on all your investments,
great and small.
You cannot afford to take
things on trust, even if your
only investment is an insur-
ance policy.
The “Monthly” puts the
work of a staff of account-
ants and specialists at your
disposal.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
FOR NOVEMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
, C. A. Butler, who cut lhr. 42min. off
Charles Scott’s London-Darwin record, fly-
ing the tiniest ’plane yet used for a long-
distance flight, is English—he was born in
Birmingham—but he has lived in Australia
since be was 10, and learned to fly while
an apprentice at the Small Arms Factory at
Litligow, eight or nine years ago. Later
he qualified as a ground engineer, and was
employed by the Australian Aircraft Co. at
Mascot (Sydney) and the Larkin Aircraft Co.
at Essendon (Vic.). Butler acquired every
sort of flying license issued, and also quali-
fied as a navigator and as an inspector of
aircraft. He had flown over 15,000 miles
before he joined the aerial service between
Coptamundra and Mildura last year. When
that job ended he made with his own hands
the first all-Australian metal monoplane and
flew it. all inside eight months. For his
record-breaking flight he used a Compers-
Swift ’plane with a wing-span of only 24ft.
The Tobjoy engine weighs but 1301 b., and
even with the heavy petrol-loading neces-
sitated in such a flight as Butler’s, gives
a speed of over 100 m.p.h.
“Cauboy”; One of the most persistent
canards in the Australian theatrical world
is that just-retired George Tallis began his
career with J. C. Williamson as an usher
at the Princess. Actually J.C.W. appointed
the young man his treasurer and secretary
shortly after Tallis arrived here from Ireland.
He was but 18 then, but his genius for
figures did as much as anything to make
the Firm the biggest theatrical combination
in the world. After Garner and Musgrove
left the original syndicate Williamson took
Tallis into partnership, and from then on-
wards the concern never looked back until
the talkies hit it unexpectedly in the wind.
Tallis promptly proceeded to get behind the
enemy’s defences by going into the talkie
business himself, but last year sold a large
slice of his interest to Fox.
John S. Clancy, the new N.S.W. District
Court Judge, though mentioned as one of
Labor’s bright young men, is well on
towards 40. Schooled by the Marist
Brothers at Darlinghurst, he later went on
to the University, and when the war gong
sounded in 1914, was on the administrative
staff of the Education Department, Enlist-
ing he w r as with the New Guinea expedi-
tionary force, and afterwards served three
years on the Western Front, where he was
J. S. CLANCY.
wounded twice. Back in Australia he re-
joined the Education Department, was
admitted to the Bar, and for a while earned
a crust as the State insurance officer's
legal officer. He will now draw £l5OO p.a.
less the 22i per cent. cut.
“Floreat” ; I was at school with both of
the younger Chamberlains, Joseph Austen,
who has been Chancellor of the Exchequer
twice, and Arthur Neville, who has just
achieved the same record (B. 11/11/’3l).
They are half-brothers. Austen had a long
start on Neville in politics; he arrived in
the House of Commons while still in his
twenties, whereas Neville went out to the
Bahamas to look after family interests there,
and never became a force at Birmingham and
in public affairs until the war years.
Austen’s maiden speech was notable in that
it drew a generous tribute from Gladstone,
then bitterly opposed to the young man’s
father. The Josephs, father and son, were
both addicted to the same harmless vanity
of an orchid in the buttonhole; London
“Punch” made a happy hit in the ’nineties
when it featured the pair under the caption
‘Orchides Ambo.” They were much alike
even without the floral decoration.
Benjamin Foote Cribb, who died in Bris-
bane the other day at 67, was a scion of
a widely-distributed Queensland pioneer
family which from the beginning turned its
attention to trade and commerce rather than
to sheep- and cattle-raising. In conjunc-
tion with the Footes, the Cribbs practically
established Ipswich, once selected as the
Queensland capital, and though Brisbane
supplanted the up-river town the two
families built up a business that is still
going strong. Both are noted for their
religious leanings, and the Y.M.C.A. in
Queensland has profited particularly by their
generosity.
Professor
W. K. HANCOCK.
Professor W. K.
Hancock is the
young man from
Adelaide who wrote
the brilliant studv
of Australia that
was pu b 1 ished
early in the year.
Born in Victoria
he went as a
Rhodes scholar to
Oxford and was
the first Austra-
lian to win a Fel-
lowship of All
Souls —a tremen-
dous highbrow dis-
tinction. Return-
ing to Australia
he was appointed
Prof, of Modern
History at Adel-
aide ; he was then
26, and probably
the youngest full-
blown professor in
the Empire. He
is an independent
thinker and a bold
speaker, who
doesn’t hesitate to
say that he doesn’t
value Australia’s
civilisation very
high and sets
America’s lower
still.
Brigadier-
General Arthur
M u sg r av e, who
died while shooting on a Scottish grouse
moor, had Australian and Papuan affilia-
tions. He came to Australia with his dad,
Sir Anthony, who was a very well-liked
Governor of Queensland, and after a spell
at Brisbane Grammar School went on
to the milder amenities of Harrow. An
uncle, also an Anthony, was William Mac-
gregor’s first Colonial Secretary in British
New Guinea, or, as we call it now, Papua.
The Brig, did good service in the war, and
collected a D.S.O. He was also a Master,
in more peaceful days, of the Old Surrey
Hounds. Only 57 at the finish, he probably
found leading a pack a harder job than run-
ning a brigade.
The übiquitous Australian again. Lucius
Connolly, well known in Melbourne theatri-
cal and advertising circles, has turned up in
Cairo, having motored with his . wife from
Durban on a leisurely sight-seeing trip of
54 days. They are the first motorists to
cross the Dark Continent from south to
north, though a couple of Australian jour-
nalists recently did the journey on foot.
There is one writer in Australia who has
turned out no fewer than six books about
this country which no Australian has read
unless he happens to know the French lan-
guage. This chronicler of the Backblocks
is Paul Wenz, at present visiting Melbourne.
He stands over six feet and is built in pro-
portion, owns a pleasant farm near Forbes
(N.S.W.), where he breeds cattle and grows
lucerne, and has squatted in various parts
of the Commonwealth during the last 30
years. His books, which have a wide public
in his native country, include “Sous la Croix
du Sud” and “L’Homme du Soleil Couch-
ant,” under which roll of syllables you can
recognise the sundowner. None of Wenz’s
works has been translated into English.
The Earl of Inclieape, whose son, Vis-
count Glenapp, came out in the Strathnaver,
has the distinction of occupying more space
in “Who’s Who” than any other individual.
The Earl’s interests and achievements —
mostly in connection with shipping and
India—occupy over a thousand words and
more than half a page, whereas a modest
person like, say, Stanley Baldwin can
record all he wishes about himself in a mere
tenth of that space. Inclieape was James
Mackay before lie became a baron 20 years
ago; lie has gone up two steps in the peer-
age since. Perhaps his biggest commercial
achievement was the sale of all the British
Government’s standard ships after the war
—tliey brought in £35,000,000. He was
also entrusted with the disposal of all the
ex-enemv ships allotted to Britain by the
Versailles Treaty, and he turned in over
£20,000,000 for that little lot.
The 1932 Rhodes scholar for N. S. Wales
is W. A. Wood, whose late father, G. Arnold
Wood, was one of Sydney Uni.’s best-
known and -equipped professors. The eldei
Wood came out in 1890, fresh from a brilliant
career at Balliol, Oxford, where Benjamin
Jowett was in the later years of his master-
ship, to fill the Chair of History. The son,
now in his second year at Sydney Uni.,
looks forward to entering Balliol next year.
Victoria’s crack train, the Sydney Limited,
has lost its best-known conductor, Jack
Colligan A figure with the bearing of a
Wodehouse butler, Colligan has been pat-
rolling the corridors and bending an atten-
tive ear to the wants of the parlor car for
35 years. In that time he travelled more
than 2,500,000 miles. His most treasured
possession is a tiepin which Melba gave him.
Malcolm Leslie Scott, untimely dead in
Adelaide at 49, was ohe of the leading sur-
geons of Australia. Graduating from Adel-
aide Uni. at 22, he took his F.R.C.S. in
London. For three years in France he was
regimental m.o. of the 10th Batt., A.1.F.,
and was later appointed surgical specialist
at the Ist Australian General Hospital at
Rouen, where his work on knee and thigh
cases brought him a lot of added kudos. In
addition to his honorary jobs at various
Adelaide hospitals, Scott, was lecturer in
surgical anatomy at Adelaide Uni.
C. M. G. Shannon, general manager of
the Australian Bank of Commerce for just
on 18 years, retires on the amalgamation of
the institution with the Bank of N.S.W.
He saw the A.B.C. grow and extend for
many years, its advance being largely due
to his business capacity. An Australian by
birth he went to England young, was edu-
cated there, and began his career with the
Union Bank in London. Much of .his spare
time in Sydney has been spent in church
and charitable work.
Vic. Methodism’s front-rank parson, Rev.
A. T. Holden, is relinquishing his job of
general superintendent of home missions.
Since he began shepherding in ’B7 lie has
led a strenuous life. He was president of
the Vic.-Tas. General Conference, and is
now its secretary; for 13 years he was
chaplain-general of the Aus. Military Forces
for his denomination.
W. S. Steel, one of the personalities figur-
ing on the passenger list of the giant P. and
O. liner Strathnaver, has made the voyage
as representative of the British engineering
firm of Thomson-Houston, which designed
and built the electrically-driven vessel’s
engines. A South African and a graduate
of Johannesburg University, he naturally
spent most of his spare time in Sydney last
week watching his fellow-countrymen at the
Cricket Ground.
Jack Barnes, who leads the Government’s
small forces in the Senate, and who got into
trouble last week through clumsily linking
up Christ and the Communists, wasn’t
trained in a school where things are put
nicely. No doubt he only meant to say that
it was dangerous to suppress new heresies,
Christ being a heretic in His day as the
Communists are in theirs. Barnes really has
no time for their heresy, but he remembers
when trade-unionism was a heresy on out-
back stations, and he an arch-lieretic, too.
In those days lie was a Shearers’ Union
Senator BARNES.
organiser, working the West Darling, and
if lie fought hard his word could be trusted.
And it still is in the Senate, where nobody
ever knew him to do a dirty thing. If he
weren’t so forthright he wouldn’t be so often
in trouble. The only thing he doesn’t
know about the bush is how to beat about it.
The Royal College of Surgeons lost a
likely president when E. R. Pitt, Vic.’s Chief
Librarian, left the medical course to browse
among the bookshelves. He has made the
collection of presidencies his hobby. Born
in a now defunct Vic. mining township, he
was educated at St. Pat’s and left Mel-
bourne University during his third year to
join the Public Library (1898). lie has been
president of the Aus. Public Service Fed-
eration, of the Aus. Public Servants’ Assoc.
E. R. PITT.
and of the Library Assoc, of Vic., and lie is
well known among scientists for compiling a
catalogue of the scientific and technical perio-
dicals in Australian libraries. Vic. civil ser-
vants will long remember him for the service
lie did in getting them the benefits of a
superannuation scheme. Pitt plays bridge
and tennis, and is local lion. sec. of. the
Association for the Advancement of Science.
He is shy of disposition, smooth of manner,
neat of dress, fair of complexion, with a nose
for facts, figures and a good book.
E. H. Macartney, Queensland's Agent-
General, who recently returned o,n leave
from London, has resigned, pleading pres-
sure of private business. Macartney was
admitted as a solicitor 40 years ago, and he
sat in the Assembly as member for Toowong
for nearly 20 years. He arrived in
Brisbane from Ireland at 20. For the
present the Government will not appoint a
successor in London; L. 11. Pike, secretary
to the office, carries on the job.
There has been a general reshuffling of
portfolios in Australia’s premier theatrical
concern. George Tallis and Theodore Fink
retire from the board of J.C.W., and Robert
Best moves in. The new director will pro-
vide assistance on financial and legal
matters; in addition, his family has a direct
connection with the stage. Daughter Phyllis,
who appeared in many of the Firm’s pro-
ductions here, is acting in London. Another
daughter, Margot, was “personality girl” at
the State in Melbourne in the days when
that theatre could afford such luxuries.
Major Brearley, the pioneer and promoter
of commercial aviation in Westralia, whose
pilot’s certificate has been suspended because
he took off from an aerodrome in a con-
trary direction to that laid down by the
authorities, is the man who staggered Perth
shortly after the Armistice by showing it
what a competent and daring flier could do
in the air with an old Avro. It was the
first that the citizens had seen of stunt fly-
ing. There were no proper aerodromes in
those days, and Brearley used to take off
from the Cricket Ground, which was sur-
rounded by high electric-light _ wires. On
one occasion he fulfilled a promise to delight
the populace when official records showed
that a 66-mile-an-hour gale was blowing.
F. Vanderkelen, of Melbourne, recently re-
ceived a medal from King Albert of Bel-
gium in recognition of his 20 years in the
consular service, of his native land. He was
secretary of the Belgian section of the Mel-
bourne International Exhibition of 1880 and
occupied a similar post in 1888.
Westralia, for all its complaints against
Federation, has a remarkably solid lot of
Senators to put its case. ' At 61 George
Pearce is the “Father” of the House and the
leader of the Opposition, which in the pre-
sent state of parties ensures his having more
say than anyone else. Paddy Lynch has
been in the Senate since 1906, and was
Minister of Works for a time. The years have
tamed him a bit, but he may always be relied
upon to express himself with downrightness.
Ivingsmill and Colebatcli are probably the
two best debaters in the House, though
the former, as President, doesn’t get the
chances he would have otherwise. Both
held high office in their State, and Colebatcli
is one of the few ex-Agents-General who
have succeeded in making a fresh start in
politics. The other two Senators, Carroll
and Johnston, who represent the Country
party, are less frequently heard from or of,
but both served an apprenticeship in State
politics, and Johnston, who began as a
Laborite, always managed to keep himself
to the fore.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Whaling Cos., Ltd.
Shareholders in this concern are in the
unenviable position of owning a partly-paid-
for shore factory for the production of
whale oil without having any means of secur-
ing whales for treatment.
It was a Sydney float, registered in August,
1929, and the board proceeded to allotment
before anything like sufficient capital was in
sight to warrant the venture being under-
taken. The idea was to take over the shore
whaling-station at Norwegian Bay, Westralia,
buy five chasers and a factory ship, extend
operations to the Antarctic, and later
build a second shore station at Jervis Bay
(N.S.W.). Nominal capital was put at
£750,000 in £1 shares, of which 415,000 were
offered. The vendors, the Australian
Whaling and Development Syndicate, were
to receive £120.000 —£50,000 cash and
£70.000 in paids—for the shore plant (valued
at £110,000) and rights and services, includ-
ing a 14 years’ whaling license from the
W'estralian Government; they also under-
took to spend £9OOO in connection with the
co’s. preliminary exes. The balance of the
money was wanted to pay for the chasers
and factory-ship and provide working capital.
But things went all awry from the jump.
Whale oil, which had sold for over £32 per
ton, soon dropped to £l2 in the market, and
new capital for all classes of ventures be-
came exceedingly difficult to coax. So the
vendors knoeked £35,000 off their considera-
tion, reducing it to £85,000 —£30,000 cash
and £55,000 in paids—and underwrote 31,000
of the co.’s shares as well. For all this
they were relieved of the payment in con-
nection with preliminary exes., and later on
of the “balance” of their underwriting con-
tract.
Despite efforts to place the scrip in Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and Malaya, only 50,099
shares, including 2000 to the vendors, had
been .issued at July 31. Paid eapital was
then £38,938, including £304 calls in ad-
vance ; so there was another £11,161 to
come, of which £8392 was overdue. Of the
£36,938 received in cash, £2700 remained
in the bank, £24,700 was handed to the
vendors, and preliminary exes., etc., made
off with most of the balance. There was
still £60,884 coming to the vendors, including
£53,000 of scrip, and sundry creditors figured
for £1936, mostly directors’ fees. The
whaling station, plant, etc., appears at
£55,353 (cost).
The plant, by the way, was recently valued
by Jas. Hayden at £125,000, subject to
£7OOO being spent on improvements. But
not much notice need be taken of that; its
worth to .shareholders is wdiat it can earn,
or wliat it will fetch if the co. is fortunate
enough to let or sell it. Without chasers
the co. is unable to work the station; so
the board proposes to send two representa-
tives abroad “to explore the possibilities of
leasing it.” But conditions in the whaling
business make prospects in this direction far
from bright. Moreover, the co. had not
enough cash in hand at July 31 to meet the
vendors’ and creditors’ claims, so unless
enough of the unpaid capital can be got in
the trip may have to he called off.
Gartrell, White, Ltd. (Sydney)
r~ ’Dividends Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.(B p.e.) Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 29,833 4800 10 p.e. = 14,000 11,033 20,731
1929.. 23,383 4800 10 „ „ 14,000 4,583 25,314
1930.. 23,936 5071 9 „ ~ 12,740 6,125 31,439
Loss.
1931.. 4,410 Nil Nil 27,038
♦Subject to goodwill, £46,618.
The loss —it is the first since the business
was put on its legs 50 years ago—was
mainly the outcome of a price war that led
to the supply of dole bread at 34d. per
loaf which, the Master Bakers say, costs
41d. to produce. This, of course, brought
trouble from other directions, and the co.’s
general bread business suffered; many cus-
tomers objected to paying while their
neighbors on the dole got the loaf for 2d.
less. So there was a slip of £44,527 in
gross profits (£109,389) ; exes. (£119,790)
were got .back £10,190, leaving a trading loss
of £10,401. This was reduced to the £4410
claimed by the accounts by transfer of
£6OOO reserved for taxation. No divs. were
paid ; thus general reserves were £19,580
short of the goodwill item (£46,615) when
the books closed. That is leaving out of
the reckoning £62,460 earmarked for depre-
ciation, some or all of which may be in
excess of current requirements.
For several years after the present co.
took over the business in 1917 earnings were
backward, but turnover livened and the div.
climbed from 5 p.e. in 1925 to: 10 p.e. in
1928, when £60,000 of ord. scrip was con-
verted into 8 p.e. cum. prefs. and both lots
of paper were listed. Then, to help finance
the erection of anew factory, equipment of
which was completed during the last term,
15,000 prefs. and 35.000 ords. were put out
in 1929. making paid capital £226.971 in
75,000 prefs. and 175,000 ords. at the close
of last accounts —there was another £23,029
to come. The effect of recent developments
on the finances is seen in the next table:—
1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £200,000 £215,769 £226,971
Mortgages . . . . 11,295 11,295 8,295
Overdraft . . . . 22,732 34,287 41,438
Sundry creditors . . 17,422 18,908 26,663
Freeholds and leaseholds 118,206 142,514 148,847
Plant, etc. .. . . 102,388 117,683 145,340
Investments . . . . 7,518 7,518 7,518
Stocks 29,996 26,689 14,917
Book debts . . . . 34,774 44,421 31,765
Cash, etc 1,381 1,532 1,609
Last year £33,990 was added to the book
value of fixed assets. To meet the outlay
and cover the trading loss £11,202 of fresh
capital was gathered, £11,90.6 net was added
to the outside debt and the more or less
liquids were reduced by £24,151 net, leaving
them £20,385 short of the debt when the
books closed. At the previous balance _tlierc
was a more or less liquid surplus of £15,670.
How long the present state of affairs in
the trade is likely to continue it is difficult
to say. Much will depend upon lioiv long
the financial resources of competitors hold
out. There is a proportion of small pro-
prietary concerns, with lighter overhead than
the larger cos., and they fight desperately for
existence before they go under. This and
other things may stand in the way of satis-
factory earnings for a while.
The market prices the prefs., which carry
a fixed cumulative 8 p.e. and have priority
as to capital, at 11s. They are covered by
£3 Is. sd. in net tangibles, all fixed assets,
worth -what they can earn. A few weeks ago
the ords. fetched 10s. lOd. Excluding the
depreciation reserve (7s. Id. per share)
they are covered by 17s. in net tangibles.
Clifford Love and Cos., Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1922.. 19,646 10 p.e. = 12,861 6,785 28,123
Premium oii shares .. 10,000 38,123
1923.. 18,501 10 p.e. = 16,911 1,590 39,713
1924.. 23,762 10 „ „ 16,911 6,851 46,564
1925.. 28,100 124 „ „ 21,138 6,962 53,526
1926.. 28,989 124 „ „ 21.138 7,851 61.377
1927.. 28,757 124 „ „ 22,896 5,861 67,238
1928.. 32,337 12 j „ „ 25,599 6,738 73,976
1929.. 32,958 124,, „ 26,423 6,535 80,511
1930.. 27,633 124 „ „ 26,423 1,210 81,721
1931.. 25,539 10 „ „ 21,138 4,401 86,122
Although trade generally quietened, there
was a firm demand for the Well-established
proprietary lines.. turned out by this dry-
goods merchant. Moreover, prices for some
of the co.’s raw materials eased, and the
new plant helped to lower production costs.
So, after setting aside an extra £IOOO for
taxation (£12,000), and openly reserving
£IOOO for doubtful debts, the board figured
the not result £2094 short of the 1920
figure. It was 12 p.e. on capital as against 13,
15.5, 15.4, 15.6 and 17.1 p.e. back to 1926.
The ‘2i p.e. bonus sent out in each of the
six preceding years was dropped, leaving the
div. at 10 p.e.
But all that was after £12,620 net as
against £4556 in the previous term had
been added to the provision for contin-
gencies, depreciation, insurance, etc., raising
it to £120,046 at Sept. 30. These allowances
are probably in excess of current require-
ments for depreciation, etc., or substantially
so. Taking them into the reckoning the net
result of the year’s trading (£38,159) was
actually £5870 better than the previous
year’s ; so the 10 p.e. div. was a more com-
fortable matter than the bare p. and 1. figures
suggest.
The market, whose opinion of the scrip
has always been a high one, prices the pound
shares at 325. as against 28s. a year ago.
The return at 325. is 6.2 p.e. on a 10 p.e.
div. basis. Including the reserves for depreci-
ation, etc., equal 'to 11s. 4d. per share, the
backing is 395. 6d. in net tangibles.
Family interests held the scrip tight for
half a century; it was not until 1922, when
Brown and Poison’s business was absorbed,
that the public became interested. Since
then £153,952 lias been added to the book
value of premises and plant, £82,776 of
fresh capital lias been got in and £22,802
net lias been knocked off the debt: —
1922. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £128,607 £169,107 £211,382 £211,383
Mortgages, etc. 47,027 31,967 14,877 18,332
Sundry creditors 17,351 15,884 17,706 23,244
Properties .. 66,265 108,978 146,294 146,481
Plant .. 59,541 106,971 131,480 133,277
Stocks . . 43,347 44,424 61,507 82,362
Book debts . . 32,540 33,284 29,366 32.391
Cash, etc. .. 5,285 12,372 13,537 9,399
Thus, to carry an extra £20.855 of stocks
and add £3025 to debtors’ balances, only
£8993 was tacked on to the debt last year.
The more or less liquid surplus (£82,57(5,
including stocks) was £10,749 stronger than
at the previous balance. In view of the
recent sharp rise in the price of wheat and
other commodities, the spring in the co.’s
stock figures looks like either shrewd or lu'cky
buying.
S. Aus. Farmers’ Co-op. Union
To Re- Re-
Junc, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1921.. 26,313 7 p.e. = 26,890 76,497
1922.. 27,407 6 „ „ 27,233 174 76,671
1923.. 24,405 Nil 24,405 101,070
Pref.
7i p.e. Ord.
£
1924.. 888 1444 Nil 100,520
1925.. 15,927 4793 21 p.e. =12,872 98,782
1926.. 3,565 4934
1927.. 39,265 4940 5 p.e. = 26,623 7,702 105,115
1928.. 31,182 4941 5 „ ~26,860 104,496
1929.. 17,603 4941 24 „ ~13,507 103,651
1930.. 1,933 4941 Nil 100,643
Loss.
1931.. 1,327 4941 Nil 94,375
The impetus given to the farmers’ co-opera-
tive movement in post-war years is illus-
trated by the growth of this co., one of the
largest of its kind in the Commonwealth.
It initiated the present three-year-old wheat
pool in S. Aus., and guaranteed it and
supported it strenuously. Besides acting
as a storage-agent for the pool, the Union,
though it stopped buying for a time, also
handles wheat on an ordinary trading basis.
Following a long droughty period the
State’s wheat yield withered to an average
of 6.4 bushels an acre in 1930; last season
the figure recovered to 8.3 bushels; and
since then splendid winter rains have fallen
and prices have improved .beyond expecta-
tions. Also record overseas shipments of
butter and eggs are looked for. The co.
.supplies a large part of Adelaide’s milk,
butter and egg requirements, and auctions
livestock at the abattoirs; its wool turnover
is moderate.
For the generally depressing 12 months
covered by the last accounts the co.’s balance
was £1327 on the wrong side. The prefs. re-
ceived their 7$ p.e. as usual, and paper
reserves were reduced by £6268. During the
last decade the ords. have averaged a shade
over 2 p.e., as against 6.9 p.e. in the preced-
ing 10 years. Still, between 1918 and 1928
the co. put out half a million of capital,
including £65,883 of 7i p.e. prefs.
Despite the difficulties, advances, etc.,
were worked down no less than £107,663
last year. That and a reduction of £58,615
in stocks enabled the co to lop £165,496 off
the outside debt; that is to say, outsiders
had only 13s. sd. at risk in the business
for every £1 belonging to shareholders, com-
pared with 235. lOd. five years earlier. Here
are balance-sheet figures :
1910. 1922. 1930. 1931.
Ord. capital.. £35,234 £470,173 £541,546 £541,603
Pref. capital. .
Liabilities . . 525,145 855,918 634,007 468,511
Property & plant 26,474 445,123 406.839 401,409
Stock . . 415,386 142,119 139,910 81,295
Advances, shares,
etc. . . 77,244 778,840 730,911 623,248
Cash, etc. . . 3.5,302 72,899 79,370 79,602
Thus the more or les’s liquid surplus
(£315,634, including stocks) was practi-
cally unchanged at the close of last accounts.
Property (£313,574) partly represents stock-
in-trade of the land department. The item
is £17,269 lower than it was five years ago.
The book value of plant, ships, etc.
(£88,036), shrank £24,335 over the same
period. Shares in other cos., included with
advances, represent holdings in Farmers’
Co-op. Executors, Ltd., Producers and Citi-
zens’ Co-op. Assurance and the Co-op In-
surance Cos.
On book figures the Union’s prefs. are
backed by £lO 16s. in net tangibles. The
market prices these shares around 155.; the
return at 15s. is 10 p.e. The ords. have an
active market at 2s. Od.
The Contract Pool, controlled by this co.
as agent, will function again this year;
signed promises for as low as 50 p.e. of their
crop will he accepted from growers. A
cheese stabilisation scheme, covering three
States, is also in process of incubation.
Griffiths Bros., Ltd.
Net f— Dividends— ~-,To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924. . 35,956 7p.e. 10 p.e. = 34,563 1393 1,425
1925.. 34,739 7 „ 10 „ „ 34,648 91 1,516
Profit on sale of property, £32,906.. 34,422
1926.. 31,364 7 p.e. 8* p.e. = 31,026 338 34,760
Profit on property sale, £IO,OOO . . 44,760
1927.. 25,597 7 p.e. 7 p.e. = 27,404 42,953
1928.. 16,011 7 „ 3§ „ ~ 18,952 40,012
1929.. 23,718 7 „ 5 „ „ 22,574 1144 41,156
1930.. 13,774 7 „ 2i „ „ 16,537 38,393
June, Loss.
1931.. 9,915 Nil Nil
This tea, coffee and cocoa concern, which lias
extensive connections in the country, set up
in 1594. It paid a regular but liberal 10
p.e. for the first five years after the public
became interested in 1920. Then the co.
pulled out of some of the more distant dis-
tricts of N. S. Wales and .Queensland, where
trade had become unprofitable. At the same
time the board decided to go more exten-
sively into the tea-room business, and added
the manufacture of confectionery to the
co.’s activities. Some of the old freeholds
were sold at a profit, new. ones were bought
and fresh shops were opened in Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide. Still, there
was a steady contraction in gross profits,
overhead was difficult to keep back, and for
the five years to the close of accounts in
1930 pref. divs. and an average of 5.3 p.e.
to the ords. called for £6Q3I more than the
aggregate net profits, apart from property
deals.
During the last term (the accounts cover
about 94 months), costs fell propor-
tionately less than the drop in turnover,
and there was a larger crop of bad debts.
Gross profits (£158,685) slipped £72,072;
exes, (£168,611) were got back £49,011.
Still, allowing for minor adjustments, a loss
of £9915 showed up, thus reducing the sup-
port and assistance for £241,485 of ordinary
share capital to £28,478 at .Tune 30. Inci-
dentally. goodwill (£75,000), which the
“Wild Cat” has not treated as an asset from
the start, has been written out of the books.
The year’s loss is again reflected in the
liquid position :
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £391,485 £391,485 £391,485 £391,485
Mortgages, etc. 95,583 74.610 102,757 84.544
Deposits . . 80,187 36,750 35,188 24,211
Sundry creditors 48,932 35,802 ■ 55,126 66,528
Freeholds .. 155,785 105,986 121,799 126,564
Leaseholds . . 27,915 31,715 33,505 32,930
Plant . . 71,088 70,362 72,634 71,694
stock.. .. 155,877 139,163 168,782 169,543
Debtors . . 198,013 225,740 214.907 175,336
Shares other cos. 12,274 12,254 12,254 14,499
Cash, etc. . . 7,256 3,430 2,808 3,068
Thus, to knock £18,213 off mortgages, etc.,
and return £10,977 of deposits, the board
leant upon sundry creditors for an extra.
£11,402 and reduced the book value of
debtors’ balances by £39,571. The more or
less liquid surplus (£172,664, including
stocks but not shares in o*ther cos.) was
£20,762 lighter than at the close of accounts
in 1930. The current year’s results will
depend largely upon whether the allowance
for contingencies proves to be adequate, and
the extent to which overhead can be
restrained.
There are 150,000 prefs. carrying a fixed
cumulative 7 p.e. with priority as to capital.
The cover is 555. 9d. in net tangibles ; they
have not an active market. The ords. are
priced at 55.; they are covered by net tan-
gibles with a book value of 21s. 4d.
Usher’s Hotel (Sydney)
, Dividends Writ- Towards
Prefs. ten Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. (8 p.e.) Ordinary. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
’20..25,013 560 124,, „ 9737 1200 13,516 454
Assets written up, £54,414.. ~ 54,868
Depreciation reserve ( £6000) treated
as genuine reserve . . .. .. 60,868
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £78,000 . . 17,132
Reconstruction exes., £1974.. .. 19,106
’21.. 18,605 560 10 p.e. = 15,600 2445 16,661
’22.. 17,566 560 10 „ „ 15,600 1406 15,255
’23.. 16,539 560 10 „ „ 15,600 379 14.876
’24.. 9,391 560 6 „ „ 9,360 15,405
’25.. 10,149 560 6 „ ~ 9,360 229 15,176
’26.. 10,283 560 64 „ „ 10,140 15,593
’27.. 12,003 560 7 „ „ 10,920 523 15,070
’28.. 13,589 560 8 „ „ 12,480 549 14,521
’29.. 9,052 560 5 „ ~ 7,800 692 13,829
’30.. 10,102 560 5 „ „ 7,800 1742 12,087
’Bl.. 8,502 560 5 „ ~ 7,800 142 11,945
•Including accumulations.
Considering the experience of residential
hotels generally during the last 12 months,
Usher’s business appears to have held par-
ticularly well. Gross profits (£33,304), to
which the co.’s bar trade has always sub-
stantially contributed, were £4241 lighter,
but £2641 of this was offset by savings in
exes. (£24,802), despite the growth in taxa-
tion. So after handing the prefs. their £560
there was enough to show a wink over 5 p.e.
on the £156,000 of ord. capital, as against
6.1 v 5.5, 8.4, 7.3, 6.2 and 6.1 p.e. back to
1920. The div. was kept at 5 p.e., making
an average of 6.8 p.e. over the last decade,
during which aggregate distributions took
all but £7361 of the aggregate net earnings,
leaving free reserves still £11,945 short of the
goodwill item (£17,132) on August 31. That
is disregarding the depreciation reserve
(£19,200), to which £I2OO was added last
year.
When, the old Metropolitan Hotel was dis-
placed by the ‘‘Daily Telegraph” building in
1913, A. J. Usher built anew Metropolitan
a few doors down the street. Then came
the days when everybody bought his neighbor
a drink, so Ushers doubled its ord. capital
by the issue of £78,000 of bonus scrip in
1920, and it has been a struggle to pay
moderate divs. since. Maintenance of the
present rate depends mainly upon whether
the business continues to hold, and whether,
besides the visible allowance for deprecia-
tion, the expenditure on replacements, etc.,
charged against earnings proves to be
adequate.
The book value of equipment was un-
changed last year:—
1924. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £163,000 £163,000 £163,000 £.163,000
Overdraft . . 29,447 25,603 25,485 25,470
Sundry creditors 6,616 7,517 17,832 7,376
Freehold . . 151,336 161,358 161,843 161,950
Equipment .. 34,474 36,614 37,422 37,422
Stocks.. .. 5,966 5,094 6,492 3,138
Book debts . . 5,460 4,423 16,529 6,691
Cash .. .. 322 330 681 681
The year’s reduction in creditors’ and
debtors’ balances was due to repayment of
£IO,OOO which the co. had borrowed and
lent to _ Carlton Hotel. Still, the excess
of liabilities over liquids increased by £2721,
reaching £22,336 at August 31; that was
because of the reduction in the stocks item.
On the market the ords. rose sharply from
Ss. 6d. to 10s. 6d. during the last few weeks.
At the higher figure the return is 9.5 p.e. on
a. 5 p.e. div. basis. Excluding the deprecia-
tion reserve, the backing is 18s. sd. in net
tangibles. The 8 p.e. cum. profs., which are
covered by £2l 11s. 7d. in net tangibles,
seldom come on to the market.
Carreras, Ltd. (Melbourne)
( —Dividends —^
Net Pref. Towards
June 30, Profit. 10 p.e. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1927*. 5261 3600 'Nil 1661 4,543
1928.. 5281 4806 Nil 1 481 4,062
1929.. 5647 4800 Nil 847 3,215
1930.. 6688 4800 Nil 1888 1,327
Reserves.
Share premiums, £33,794 .. .. 32,467
1931.. 6083 4800 Nil 1283 33,750
•Nine months.
It was originally Sniders and Abrahams,
an ambitious but disappointing venture,
which reconstructed under the name of
G. G. Goode in 1923 ; and there was another
clean up three years later. Altogether 9s.
was struck off each of the 124,902 10s.
ords., thus leaving the prefs. (£48,000) very
exposed—they Were given the right to an
extra 2 p.e., making 10 p.e. cumulative, to
compensate for arrears of divs. —and it
didn’t look as if the cq. was ever likely to
become prosperous.
But tariff adjustments and the rationing
of tobacco imports provided the opportunity
to link up with Carreras, Ltd., the big
English cigarette manufacturers, which
bought the 75,098 unissued Is. ords for 10s.
each early in the last term; whereupon the
Australian co'. changed its name to the
present title and began to expand its manu-
facturing and other activities. Gross profits
for the 12 months covered by the last
accounts (£63,099) sprang £19,550. But the
extra cost of handling the bigger business
and of widening goodwill, and the interest
on borrowed funds which have not yet had
much of a chance to contribute to the
pool, took all the increase and £605 besides.
Still, after handing the prefs. their 10 p.e.
there was enough to show 12.8 p.e. on the
small ord. capital (£10,000), but no div.
was paid, and it seems unlikely that one
will be until the co.’s position is consoli-
dated. The share premiums (£33,794) were
added to reserves, lifting them £33,750 in
excess of goodwill, etc. (£6240) at June 30.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the year’s
activities and other things as balance-sheet
figures reflect them :
1924. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £71,226 £54,245 £54,245 £58,000
Overdraft . . 33,794 31,976 28.476 43,413
Sundry creditors.. 12,882 7,358 23,297 100,540
Freehold . . - —•— 53,444
Plant, etc. . . 11,757 14,484 16,150 32,126
Stocks . . . . 50,076 52,225 54,819 110,134
Book debts . . 20,273 25,456 36,855 42,711
Cash, etc. . . 1,377 618 756 1,189
Thus, in addition to the share and premium
money, the board went to its bankers for
a further £14,937 and leant upon sundry
creditors for an extra £77,243. The new
funds were used to put up factory premises
at a cost of £53,444, add £15,976 to tin'
plant item, and carry £55,315 additional
stocks and £5856 more book debts. When
the books closed, more or less liquids
(£154,034, including stocks) exceeded liabili-
ties by £10.0S1; but the backing of the Eng-
lish co. relieves any anxiety there might be
in connection with the finances.
The prefs., which are covered by 38s. 2d.
in net tangibles as against 225. at the
previous balance, are now priced at 225.:
at that figure the return is 9.1 p.e. The
ords., now held mainly by the English co.,
have not come on to the market lately.
George Pizzey and Son (Vic.)
, Dividends N Towards
Net Pref. lte-
June, Profits. (8 p.e.) Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 18,066 8,000 5 p.e. = 9200 866 34,600
1924.. 6,380 8,000 Nil 36,220
1925.. 8,947 8,000 Nil 947 35,275
1926.. 6,778 8,000 Nil 36,495
1927.. 7,995 8,000 Nil 36,500
1928.. 17,789 8,000 4 p.e. = 7360 2429 34,071
1929.. 6,362 8,000 Nil 35,709
1930.. 4,075 4,000 Nil 75 35,634
1931.. 12,619 12,000 Nil 619 35,015
This is the co. which took over the 35-year-
old tanning and leather-products business of
George Pizzey and Son in 1920. Goodwill
figured at £43,000, and the public took up
(Continued on page 16.)


IP u
Er W
4
%
t
&
m.
11
i
k
a
KX
s§§
I
m
m
M
8S
Ml
m
x.
;
BBWlifr.JP U
! !B>i!! l liii.
■
'•■•■••:
, " „
,
8................. i
.. i
■::i:i::Ui
i;::,
• —::::llss , .:!!i:!!!!t«, lI ;; i
-
■
sag
iiiiiiiiiiiiiHiunmiiii;
iiliSiliilSi! II!!«!!!;
I!!! T"""
••111. _ !
im . I
r.
” •
• .
tGjSSS** 3^
ll»
■
Jill
MMI
i'i;;
m
«ili!
MH
!
■
;ii; !
‘ .. 'ip'ur
!!■'!!!!■. I
g -< s
fes ■ sis
feSraSSSs^sW^'’
8.G.7M.29.


Inventors.— Have you an idea worth pamti S •
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attc nney.
Asbestos House, Or. York ana Barrack
obtain Commonwealth and foreign paten .
V ***
IDEAS— Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years practice. VVnte
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Extract from letter from Chillagoe State Smelters
to Kyrac Proprietary, Limited, Bendigo, Victoria
14/8/’31: “At this juncture we might mention that.
we are giving our boilers their annual cleaning and
having now given ‘Eucalaqua a thorough tr al
we are pleased to say that a very re ™® rk^M^ fc
tion in scale deposit is noticeable We might state
that the use of your disincrustant has enabled us
to keep the boilers in line for a record period
Briefly ‘Eucalaqua’ is the best boiler compound
have used.—C. G. Rutledge, Manager. — Adit.
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R.
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used a
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
AMP
“I should like to guarantee an
income to my wife,” he said —
ONE of the most extraordinary things about Life Assurance
is that its benefits are greater than most people expect them
to be. Despite the fact that the A.M.P. has about 1,000,000
policies in force, there are tens of thousands of men and women who
are without the comfort of adequate assurance simply because they do
not understand that there is an A.M.P. policy to meet every need.
A certain young bridegroom said recently that he would like to
take out a policy that would assure to his bride a regular income in
the event of his death—
And this is how he guaranteed
one to himself as well
A man can have a policy that will secure to him an income of
£lOO a year for life, when he reaches 60 years of age. Should he
die before his wife, she will be paid all the accumulated bonuses on
the policy (a tidy sum, as a rule), and the income of £lOO a year
will be paid to her during her lifetime. On her death, the sum of
£2OOO will be paid to the children or other beneficiaries.
This bridegroom was 30 years of age and his bride 25, which
meant that they could obtain all these benefits—and this security and
peace of mind —for a half-yearly premium of £39/9/4. They did
not hesitate. “Why,” the bridegroom said, “this guarantees me an
income in my old age, and safeguards my wife, too, should she outlive
me. I had no idea that I could get a double-barrelled policy like
that.”
AMP
A YEAR
FOR LIFE
There is an A.M.P. booklet
that tells of the many and varied
policies issued by this, the
Empire’s greatest mutual office.
Let us send you a copy. Study
it and you will have a new idea
of Life Assurance. Better, let us
send an experienced officer to talk
it over with you. Write or tele-
phone to “Enquiry Officer,’’ near-
est A.M.P. office.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A., General Manager
Established
1849.
AMP
Assets,
£83,200,000.
£IOO,OOO of scrip, making paid capital
£284,007 in 100,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs and
184,007 ords. The co.’s products are mar-
keted all over the Commonwealth and in
Maoriland, and Forsyth, Pizzey and Gates,
in which the co. holds a substantial interest,
conducts a similar business in N. S. Wales.
But since the bottom fell out of the hides
market in 1921, competition has become more
and more aggressive, and it has been a
struggle to keep up payments to the prefs.;
the ords., which have averaged 2 p.c. since
the beginning, got their last meal (4 p.c.)
in 1928.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, competition was ruthless;
but the co. bought its skins well, and lost
little when prices flopped. Sales fell away,
of course, but mostly in imported American
leather; the co.’s own factories were respon-
sible for 55 p.c. of the turnover as against
43 p.c. in 1930. After taking stock into the
sheet at £31,180 below the 1930 figure, gross
profits (£40,329) sprang £8219, and the net
result got the full benefit, together with
£325 saved in exes, besides. The £12,619
netted was enough to cover the annual pref.
charge and show 2.5 p.c. on ord. capital; but
the pref. div. had fallen six months in
arrears, so only £619 remained after clean-
ing their slate, and £35,015 of the capital
was unrepresented by tangibles when the
books closed.
During the last few years there has been
little variation in the -book value of fixed
assets; fluctuations in the financial position,
therefore, have been almost wholly a reflec-
tion of trading experiences :
1925. 1929 1930 1931.
Paiand capital. .
Overdraft .. 42,448 19,572 48,227 21,473
Other liabilities 22,466 42,978 21,939 21,716
Freeholds, etc. 37,888 44,652 44,652 45,197
Plant, etc. .. 21,202 19,175 18,719 17,742
Shares, etc. .. 44,385 56,110 68,270 67,320
Stocks .. 132,654 112,075 109,047 77,867
Debtors . . 82,058 82,720 78,079 98,194
Cash, etc. .. 525 479 671 464
Thus at the close of last accounts the more
or less liquid ’surplus (£133,336, including
stocks but not shares, etc.) was £15,1 Uo
stronger than at the previous balance.
Stocks, usually a vulnerable point, are lower
than they have been for years, but the mor-
tality amongst boot-manufacturing concerns
is still high, making the debts question for
the tanner a perplexing problem. Also the
Government, though it provides none of the
capital, is in the nature of a greedy share-
holder, with an ever-growing pre-preferred
claim on profits.
The prefs., covered by 495. 9d. in net tan-
gibles, fetch 14s. in the market; the return
at that figure is 11.8 p.c. The more specula-
tive ords. are priced at 45.; they are covered
by 16s. 2d. in net tangibles, mostly plant,
etc., worth what it can earm
News of the richest find reported from
Vic. for many years came from the Orbost
district, East Gippsland, last week-end. Two
tons of stone, crushed at the Bairnsdale
School of Mines, yielded 61oz. ldwt. 17gr.
to the ton, and the lot was valued at over
£720. It came from a reef, discovered by
Stagg and Olson, in the rugged, virgin
country immediately north of Combienbar.
At the moment only experienced bushmen
and prospectors with sufficient financial
backing to enable them to transport sup-
plies in such country should attempt to go
there, say officials of the Mines Department.
The principal of the Bairnsdale School of
Mines wall make a geological inspection of
the district within the next few days. The
find is not far from the Great Boulder mine,
which produced about 36,0000 z. of gold
some 20 years ago.
* * * *
B. H. Prop, is investigating Slade and
Kay’s lease at Stawell (Vic.). Here there
is an extensive surface deposit of decom-
posed schist, which could be worked by open
cut. The gold is fine, pure and easily dis-
solved _in cyanide solution, but whether
there is enough of the metal to' warrant
working the property on a large scale is
the question that the Prop.’s experts have
not yet decided.
* * * *
“Old Gira”: Recently the representative
of a M.L. syndicate, Morris Dunkley, of
Wellington, secured an option over half a
dozen sluicing and dredging leases on the
Waria River, and is now off to the Shivery
Isles to collect finance and machinery to
test the properties. The idea is, apparently,
to form a small prospecting and holding co.
to open out the ground; all going well, a
larger co. will be floated to work the areas,
probably by sluicing in the preliminary
stages. It is stated that 4d. a yard will
yield good profits; native labor and native
food supplies are available, and there are
sites for aerodromes, without which no self-
respecting New Guinea mining co. now sets
out in life. There is certainly a tremendous
amount of wash in the deeply cut valley of
the Waria, a long and rapid river reaching
the sea some miles north of the Papuan
boundary on the n.-e. coast of the island, but
it has yet to be proved that there is much
gold in it. For the last 40 years German
and Australian prospectors from Papua
have been fossicking on the Waria, and if
any have struck it rich the world lias never
heard about it, though one can get colors
in every dish. Dredging and sluicing leases
for the part of it in British territory were
applied for at the Warden’s office at Tamata
30 years ago, and were duly surveyed, the
matter ending there. The Germans were
also experimenting on the same lines, and
what are known to this day as “Kemp’s
leases” have repeatedly had the attention
of ambitious promoters. Until the ground is
thoroughly test bored, the writer feels that
he would rather trust his money to the
tender mercies of Mr. Whiddon.
* * * *
The Batavia River field on the western
side of Cape York Peninsula has been
attracting attention lately, a couple of the
claims being on good gold. The two paying
shows are on a run of hard conglomerate
wash, and some thousands of ounces have
been sent south within the past 18 months.
One party, Densley’s, is taking out from
40 to 60 ounces of gold a day; another,
Delany’s, is waiting for a small mill to be
brought from Croydon; it promises to be a
stiff job, the field being one of the most in-
accessible in Australia. There is 1500 tons
of ore at grass. The stuff has been roughly
run through the sluice-boxes and the coarse
gold taken out; it is calculated that the
residues will yield up to soz. per ton under
battery treatment. Apart from the owners of
these claims and the men they employ on
wages, no one else is doing any good; there
are from 90 to 100 men on the ground, and
some of them have been there for years.
“Old Warden”: That newly-discovered
reef in the Ravenswood (N.Q.) district (B.
4/11/’3l) is stated now to be located on St.
Paul’s station, 54 miles from the Towers.
If that is so, it is probably one that was
discovered in the 1890’s, and had great
hopes entertained of it; crushings at one
of the Towers mills indicated a value for
small parcels of from 16dwt. to 18dwt. per
ton. But anything short of an ounce was
looked upon as waste of time in those days,
so enthusiasm petered out- Nowadays those
figures would be very good, provided the
stuff is there in any quantity.
* * * *
“Paul”: Re Hopes Hill, Southern Cross
(W.A.) (B. 28/10/’3l). I was at the
resurrection of the mine. Shameful waste,
both underground and on the surface, was
the real cause of the trouble. “Peter” is
wrong when lie says the ore was worth only
17s. a ton; 125,000 tons of it returned an
average of sdwt. 2gr., according to Mines
Department records. The men now work-
ing the mine have had over loz. per ton
crushings, and promise to make a success of
the venture.
Jjf * ❖ *
Ernest Williams has given up the manage-
ment of Boulder Perseverance (W.A.), and
C. E. Blackett, formerly treatment expert
at the Golden Horseshoe and consulting
metallurgist to the Perseverance Cos. of Lon-
don, has taken liis place. Williams found
the mine in a dreadful muddle, but after
seven years’ strenuous work leaves it in
order. A bromo-cyanide extraction plant,
designed by Blackett, is in course of erec-
tion. It is the old Diehl process, used years
ago on the Golden Horseshoe and Brown
Hill mines, with a fresh coat of paint.
% ❖ ❖
The admirers of Sons of Gwalia (W.A.)
predict that the market will go higher. There
is certainly a lot of ore in sight,, mostly in
the lower levels, and at the present price
of gold, plus exchange, it should pay hand-
somely to extract and treat it. But there
is £40,000 coming to the State Government,
and anew shaft and equipment are con-
templated, so shareholders may have to wait
awhile.
* =k
Wiluna (W.A.) is reported to be looking
better. Payable ore has been struck in driving
away from the break at 850 ft., and boring
below that level is expected to be successful.
Certainly the lode inspires confidence, in the
upper levels, and does not give the impres-
sion that it is or would be likely to go
wrong at depth.
* sf: * *
Empire Extended, which got an extension
of its option at Mulwarrie, has installed a
five-head mill, with which the board hopes
to cheer up the market. There is little
ore available for crushing, but the co. is
hurriedly rooting out some more, and share-
holders have been asked for another three
ha’pence on their scrip.
* * * *
Sand Queen (W.A.) has fallen on evil days
again. A big wad of shares has been for-
feited, and mining has ceased for -want of
funds. There is some talk of going to London
for more capital, but a man who has just
returned from there doesn’t like the board’s
prospects.
* * * *
Malim Nawar, one of Alluvial Tin’s off-
shoots, reports a trading loss of £Bl7 on the
year ended March 31 as against a loss of
£1064 for the preceding 12 months. No
provision was made for depreciation, and,
though charged in the accounts, the year’s
interest on £25,000 of 8 p.c. debentures
remained unpaid. These debentures, held by
Malayan Interests, Ltd., were due for re-
demption at the rate of £SOO per month as
from Jan. 31, 1930, but nothing ha,s thus
far been paid off. In 1928 the co.’s dredge
capsized, and was replaced by an electric
sluicing plant, the old pontoon and as much
of the dredge material as possible being
utilised. The rest was given a value of
£19,692 in the books; sales reduced the
figure to £17,746, of which £17,000 has now
been struck off as lost. When the books
closed there was £6870 coming to sundry
creditors; liquids totalled £5840, including
stores and shares. During the year the
plant recovered 340 tons of t.o. from .601 b.
ground; costs were 4.71 and. per yard, as
against 6.41 and. the year before. On the
basis of last year’s figures tin would need
to average over £l6O London to enable the
co. to meet debenture interest plus redemp-
tion charges.
$ $ $ $
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I hold ord. shares in the Rapson Tyre Go.
(in liq.) ; is it safe to now tear up the
scrip? —694o.
No. Put it away and forget about it
for the present. Since liquidation began
£44,669 has been paid to creditors. Early
in September it was stated that there was
still £14,669 coming to partially secured
and £72,480 to unsecured creditors; total,
£87,149. Assets were valued at £25,930.
But the co. is producing tyres, and results
are said to be satisfactory; so an offer of
£70,000 for fixed .assets has been turned down,
and liquidation is to continue on a trading
basis. In this way the liquidator hopes event-
ually to pay creditors 20s. in the £. After
that the assets would, of course, belong to
shareholders; so your scrip might be worth
something some day.
(1) When was the Automatic Totalisator
Go. formed and how does it receive its
revenue? (2) What States? (3) Ord.
divs. ? —6826.
(1) Registered as Automatic Totalling
Mechanisms, Ltd., in 1911; re-registered
under present title 1917, and in the fol-
lowing year took over Premier Totalisators,
Ltd. Chief sources of revenue are manage-
ment and royalty charges on machines
installed by co., manufacture and sale of
totalisators, etc., and sale of rights (2)
Chiefly N. S. Wales, Vic. and Westralia.
Royalties, etc., from foreign rights have
been disappointing. During last four years
co. contributed £25,825 towards Erencli
subsidiaries’ pref. div. (£IO,OOO p.a.) which
it has guaranteed for 20 years. (3) 1930,
nil; 1929, 6 p.c.; 1928, 71 p.c. plus a 25
p.c. bonus from sale English rights. Aver-
age since 1918, including bonus, 6.3 p.c.
The accounts were reviewed in the January,
1931, issue of the “ ‘Wild Cat" Monthly.’ ”
I have been asked to advance £IOOO on
mortgage of a house property. Gan I
contract out of the provisions of the N. S.
Wales Moratorium Act in respect of both
interest and personal covenant, and, if so,
how? —6813.
Yes; provided the mortgage agreement
contains a clause or memorandum expressly
excluding the provisions of the Act. Such
clause of memorandum must be witnessed by
a solicitor (but not the solicitor for the mort-
gagee), legal-aid officer or clerk of petty
sessions; the witness is required to certify
that consent is given on his advice. Although
the N. S. Wales Act eliminates the right
of action on the personal covenant in mort-
gages of real property, the mortgagor can
give the mortgagee promissory notes as col-
lateral, and the right to sue in respect of
these notes is not affected by the State
Act; all rights of action, etc., in respect
of the notes are governed by Commonwealth
law.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.E.: Current rates, provided the bank is
willing to negotiate it; A is not the payee....
G.J.L.: (1) There is a regular demand for asbestos
of approved quality. Present market price
from £2 to £100 per ton according to qiiaUty.
Good quality is soft and long-fibred not s •
(2) Jas. Hardie and Co., Asbestos House, 67 Vo
street, Sydney, may be interested.... Jean ••
dined now to take No. 1 or No. 3.... •'• ••
B. H. North M.L.: Advertisers every day 1,1 tne
“S. M. Herald,” but you’ll probably do better pie-
sently R.O.S.: (1) Probably will; but the future
is very obscure. (2) It certainly has been a factoi.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Eight Bob a Day
Dear B.,—“Gad” (B. 4/11/’3l) gives a
clear idea of the feelings of the nomad
unemployed on the question of accepting a
low wage. It is, however, not the nomad
but the°unemployed married men who pre-
sent the biggest problem. They are chained
to town, as the city is the only place where
they can keep a roof over their families.
I have never belonged to a union. For
some years previous to the depression I had
been employed in a managing capacity, with
control of large numbers of working men.
But for 12 months I have lined up with
the unemployed for the dole, lived on the
same allowance as they have lived on, and
kept interested ears well open to get both
sides of the almost ceaseless arguments that
go on re the acceptance of a big drop in
wages* I say without hesitation that the
majority of the unemployed would accept
and be grateful to accept work at a big drop-
in the rates previously paid. The minority,
who will fight the inevitable drop, consists
of a small proportion of married men who
have had their outlook clouded by Commu-
nistic preaching (some very conscientious men
are in this class, too) and the unmarried
men, whose spending power would be cur-
tailed by the decrease.
I heard one old warrior down at the
Quay (Sydney) dole depot in fierce argu-
ment with a much younger man. The old
man finished a fierce tirade with a shot that
I think sums up the whole position. He
said: “Wages must come down. If you had
any sense you must see it. Anyway, what
have high wages been? Nothing but a bean-
feast for you unmarried men.” He was
right. Wages in good times were never too
high for the married man with a family to
keep. He was able to live in moderate com-
fort, that is all. He -would now be enabled to
live just as well on a much reduced wage
because the cost of living that he spent his
wages on has fallen greatly. The unmarried
man, on the other hand, spent only a small
proportion of his wages in the actual cost of
living. A rise or fall would make no
material difference to him in this respect.
What he would lose would be surplus spend-
ing money, and it is for this that he will
fight.
The same wages in a time like this for
the married man as for the unmarried must
make a quite unfair standard of life for both.
Jobs have to be made artificially. The old
law of supply and demand cannot be beaten
even in relation to labor,* and to make arti-
ficial jobs for married and unmarried with
the same rate of pay can only mean either
that one is underpaid or the other overpaid.
No country can afford to overpay for arti-
ficially created jobs.—Yours, Beta.
As the Unemployed See It
Dear B„ —“Gad” (B. 4/11/’3l) makes
the same mistake as so many uninformed
talkers on the wages question. Wages are
determined not by the employer but by the
ultimate consumer. If the farmer —in the
case quoted by “Gad”—finds that wages at
15s. per day will cost him more than the
entire value of the product of the labor, why
should he pay it and lose money—even if
he had the money to lose? When the con-
sumer was able to pay 9s. per bushel for
wheat and 12s. per case for fruit, the labor
used in production was worth 15s. per day
—and got it. But those commodities are
worth less than a third of those prices, now,
and the labor used in their production is
accordingly worth so much less. We are
all —laborers and employers alike —subject
to economic pressure which is beyond our
control; if wages are low so also is
the value of its product low, and purchasing-
power correspondingly high.
As for the farmer “waxing fat,” if “Gad”
and his friends think the farmer is on
such a good wicket, there is nothing stop-
ping them from following his example. All
they have to do is to take up an area of
bush land and spend the next 10 or 15 years
slogging into it —felling trees, grubbing
roots, ploughing and harrowing, fencing arid
clearing scrub from sun-up to sun-down six
days a week. They can eat and sleep in a
bark humpy, and on Sunday—if they have
time and can borrow a paper—they can
read about the picture shows and pony races
instead of going to them. They can grow
vegetables to get enough for tucker, and
then, in 10 years or so, when their farm
begins to show some return, they can start
waxing fat and arguing the point about
wages.—Yours, Glenorie.
An Escape from the Dole
Dear Bulletin, —An earnest endeavor is
being made to solve the unemployment pro-
blem in north-western Tasmania. Representa-
tives of the sawmilling industry from the
Duck River district, comprising proprietors
and workmen, met the members for Darwin
at Ulverstone. The scheme put forward was
that the Government advance money, in-
terest free, at the rate of Ss. per 100 super
feet, for cutting and stacking timber at
approved ports and railway sidings. The
loans to be up to two years, the Govern-
ment holding the lumber cut as security.
After sales are effected, the money to be
refunded. The millers to find the balance
over and above Ss. of the cost of production.
This proposal was the outcome of con-
ferences between the men and the mill-
owners. As this industry formerly employed
between five and six hundred men locally
the scheme should absorb a large number of
the very best type of worker. It is infinitely
more desirable to have men contentedly
engaged at their own trades than living on
the dole. It is equally desirable that money
should be spent building up productive in-
dustries, instead of in constructing unproduc-
tive scenic highways, or slightly improved
railway grades. — Yours, Sawdust.
The Exchange Rate
Dear Bulletin,— Exchange, from the Aus-
tralian point of view, is purely a matter of
buying foreign money held in foreign coun-
tries. This foreign money is owned by Aus-
tralians. and is bought from them by other
Australians, with Australian money. The
maximum price paid for it is fixed in accord-
ance with the law of supply and demand.
The middlemen in this transaction are the
banks. For various reasons the banks will
sell English pounds for Australian pounds
in the ratio of 100:130. xriey are not in
a .position to sell dollars direct for Aus-
tralian pounds, but must purchase dollars
with English pounds from English banks
in London. The price (in English money)
of dollars in America, owned by and bought
from Englishmen in England, is arrived at
(now that the gold standard no longer
operates) in exactly the same way. The
ratio 100:130 is “pegged”; i.e., the “true”
exchange rate might vary between 128 and
132, say, over a few days. But it cannot
be pegged very far from the “true” rate.
If it were pegged at 110, for instance, the
demands of importers and others would
increase beyond the quantity of the Austra-
lian-owned English money in London. Im-
porters who had been refused exchange by
the banks would then seek out exporters
and offering a higher rate, (but not higher
than the “true” rate) would not only take
the exchange business away from the banks,
but also destroy their control of the London
funds. This we saw happen when the ex-
change was pegged at 108, and when, to
avoid losing their control altogether, the banks
fell in behind the Bank of N. S. Wales and
raised the rate to about its “true” level.
If the rate were arbitrarily raised we should
see the converse take place, with the ex-
porter and importer again dealing direct and
having no recourse to the banks as middle-
men. The same thing will happen if 167
is too high a rate for dollars. Importers
will not buy them through the regular ex-
change channels (to be forced into a loss),
and those who hold them will be forced to
lower their price.
The “true” ratio of exchange is simply the
ratio of equal costs of production in the
two currencies. An Englishman, in fact,
lives as well on a wage of 100 s. (Eng.) as
an Australian on 130 s. (Aus.). If the
increase of funds in London is made by
the easy way of floating a loan in England,
this can have no effect on making a wage of
£2 10s. (Aus.) keep an Australian as fat
and cheerful as an Englishman on a wage of
£2 10s. (Eng.), and without this having
been effected the evil day _of reckoning has
only been postponed. It is not possible to
beat the law of supply and demand for any
length of time.—Yours faithfully, J. G.
Vaughan Chubb.
Watch the Prickly-pear!
Dear B., —There is still profitable work to
be done just in keeping things from getting
worse. The good work
accomplisiied in pear-
infested country by
the cochineal and
cactoblastis is being
undone rapidly by the
ever-increasing num-
ber of young shoots
which the insects leave
behind. Give men
half-wages and half-
time in lieu of the dole
and put them on to
this. —Yours, F. H. R.
Sturdy Beggars and
Farm Colonies
Dear Bulletin, —
Of the hundreds of
don’t-want-w or k s I
have come across the
vast majority are
slightly s u b-normal
mentally and (being
inefficient industrially)
get pushed from pil-
lar to post, till they
develop into the hope-
less mendicants de-
scribed by various
Bulletin correspon-
dents. I am fully
persuaded that the
only effective way to
deal with these gentry
is through Labor
colonies on the Dutch
and German models.
Given supervision and
discipline in a colony
—and German disci-
pline is strict —many
of these unemployables
are reclaimed, and
nearly all of the col-
onies' manage to sup-
port themselves. De-
prived of this super-
vision and discipline,
these men go to swell
the vagrant and crim-
inal classes. When
will our Australian
Governments adopt the
British Mental Defi-
ciency Act 1913, and
establish farm
colonies? —• Yours
truly, R. V. R.
Broadcasting Control
Dear B., —Under
Government control of
broadcasting a reduc-
tion of license fees
should be possible.
The flat rate is not
good business practice.
The Rolls-Royce pays
a bigger registration
fee than the Baby
Austin, and the same
should apply to radio
sets. A man with a
crystal set cannot get
as much as the man
with a multi-valve ser.
A. sliding scale as fol-
lows should meet with
general approval and
return as much
revenue as the present
flat rate of 245.: For
a crystal set, ss. per
year ; one valve, 10s.;
two valve, 155.; three
valve, 205.; four valve,
255.; five valve, 305.;
six valve or more, 355.
Yours, Eureka.
Silver
Dear Bulletin,— Paper money displaced
silver. The evident remedy is to revert to
silver and displace the paper money, -tins
can be done. Our note issue is about PU
millions, of which approximately half is
in circulation and half held by the banks.
Of the half in circulation I suppose about
three-quarters would be ten-shilling notes
say, IS millions. Start the good work by
withdrawing these ten-shilling notes. _ At
the rate of a million a year, here is IS
years’ work assured to a large number ot
our mines. After the ten-shilling notes are
withdrawn the restriction of the issue ot
one-pound notes could proceed. 1 robably
half the notes usually held by the banks
never are circulated, so there would be no
hardship upon anyone if they were replaced
by silver. So another ten million one-pound
notes could be dispensed with and replaced
with the white metal. —Yours, Wynyard.
A “Ration” of Relief Workers
Dear Bulletin, —In various trades the
number of apprentices is governed by the
number of journeymen employed. Why not
adopt the same system to allow for the
providing of work for many of our unem-
ployed? Fix the wages for male relief
workers at between £2 10s. and £3 per
week, and allow their employment m the
ratio of, say, one in three. The relief
workers’ w r ages would certainly be low, but
it would be far more acceptable to the
hoaltliy-minded than an existence in idle-
ness on the dole. By adjustments, as the
return to prosperity would allow, the scheme
could work itself out; as employment in-
creased the ratio could be varied, and
finally abolished. —Yours, J. H.
Government and Industry
Dear B., —The position as it appears to
me, a woolgrower, is that we have been put-
ting the cart before the horse. That is,
we have been trying to save our _ Govern-
ments at the expense of our industries. Gov-
ernments were created to serve the people
and the people’s lawful occupations; instead,
we have the people and industry serving an
autocracy greater than anything any medi-
aeval ruler conceived. We will get nowhere
and achieve nothing until government is
relegated to its proper place. Also, we must
realise that Governments composed of indi-
viduals (and individuals who in the main
are conspicuously unable to conduct their
private affairs successfully) cannot collec-
tively interfere except disastrously in the
businesses of persons who have proved their
knowledge by their success. If Governments
continue to demand impossible sacrifices from
industry so that they themselves may
flourish, we will find that neither industry
nor Governments will live to see the depres-
sion through.—Yours faithfully, William
J. Fraser.
The Devastating Dole
Dear Bulletin, —Consider this actual
case of Blank, who lives in Perth, and who
has been out of employment—he is a skilled
workman, by the way—for nearly two years.
He is given one and a half days’ sustenance
work per week by the Claremont Council,
for which the Government pays him 215.,
the council Is. 6d. and a relief committee
Is., making in all 235. 6d. If during Ins
idle portion of the week he earns a few
shillings at casual work, he must repoit
same, and these earnings are deducted from
his sustenance work. If he earns an extra
235. 6d. one week he loses his sustenance
work altogether, and may find difficulty in
getting it back the following week. On the
other hand, if he doesn’t report his extra
earnings, he is branded a criminal and is
liable to imprisonment. So it does not pay
him to work beyond what the Government
will allow him, and he is quickly developing
into a loafer on the community. For
Heaven’s sake, is there no alternative to
this pernicious dole system?—Yours, etc.,
PhilM.
Labor Battalions
Dear B., —Labor battalions to help absorb
unemployed are an excellent suggestion. _ It
is a plan that needs very little organisation,
since our Citizen Army is already well organ-
ised and labor battalions could be mobilised
at short notice.
The Citizen Force is chiefly manned by
unemployed youths; we have good keen
young Australians coming on parade each
week, one of the reasons being that they have
nothing else to do. Also our annual camps,
bivouacs and parades are now chiefly
attended by officers and men who are unem-
ployed ; if it were not for them our volun-
tary militia w r ould crumple up.
Well, then, the biggest part of the problem
is solved. We have trained officers and men
already organised who would be willing to
tackle a long camp based on a working
scheme. Is it too much to believe that bat-
talions of them could be put on the road,
with good healthy work, such as clearing,
fencing and farmwork, instead of drill
manoeuvres, and thus preserve the bodies
and minds of our youth from the
despondent state in which they now are?
The battalions would be self-supporting, and
the spirit that made the A.I.F. famous would*
live again.—Yours, Mr. Vice.
THE DIEHARD.
“Does any Australian hold that the British Government can spare tune in_ these coming ninths
for a conference" on tariffs within the Empire?.... The present campaigi A groans are doomed.”
Australian tariffs is futile; the extravagant Customs duties under w 1 & ' __«g M. Herald
GRANNY: “Yes, it’s gone, bein’ took by that Ramsay MacDonald. But sat upon it I always have,
and sit upon it I always will, even if it isn't there.!"


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Ruddigore”
Criterion .. “As Husbands Go”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “Oh, Lady, Lady!”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
The show of a week destitute oi new
examples of the ordinary variety in Mel-
bourne w r as the R.M.S. Strathnaver. This
peripatetic entertainment, after argument
with sundry tugs that looked like water-
beetles worrying a whale, moored alongside
a wharf at Port Melbourne, the site being
cunningly chosen so that the gigantic vessel,
which looks more like a block of flats than
the direct descendant of the ship Cook dis-
covered N.S.W. in, should be relieved against
the blue-grey bulls and numerous smoke-
stacks of the Australian Navy. As soon as
the Strathnaver had come to rest The Bul-
letin’s shipping reporter mounted the gang-
way and stepped upon one of the decks.
No band played.
The Strathnaver is claimed to be the largest
vessel which has ever put into an Australian
port, and she looked it. It seemed as if once
round the deck would be a mile, whereas
the s.s. Airlie, the first ship the s.r. put to
sea in, had to be circumnavigated 53 times
before you obtained that objective, and you
usually stopped at the dingy little smoke-
room after ten times round. The s.r. came
across one of the Strathnaver’s two lifeboats,
equipped with wireless and searchlight, and
it looked bigger than the Airlie. (When
the Airlie reached Port Darwin the tide was
in and you had to slither down the gang-
way at risk of life and limb. When vou
returned the tide was out and you had to
look for your floating home with a telescope
and get to it by sliding down a rope.) The
s.r. looked with a humble eye at the saloon,
music-room, verandah cafe and vestibules,
lined with English oak, sycamore and satin-
wood ; at the main lounge, finished in Jaco-
bean style, with polished wood, antique
silver and indirect lighting. He went up
and down in one of the lifts and respectfully
saluted the open-air marble bath, which
reminded him of the bath of a Roman
emperor, though a Roman emperor would
probably be astonished if he could see it.
The s.r. gazed w T ith all humility at the gym-
nasium, the hospital, the tennis-court, the
nursery, the laundry and other places. He
found a man manipulating a ' telephone
‘system which looked complicated enough for
a fair-sized city. He approached with awe
a gentleman in uniform whom he imagined
to be the captain but who turned out to be
the rear-admiral in charge of the sanitary
system.
The s.r. next inspected the 12 luxur-
riously-fitted spedial staterooms, equipped
with private baths, sleeping couches it would
be blasphemous to call bunks, and windows
it would be a sacrilege to call ports. He
drifted along Collins-street, turned into
Swanston-street, was hopelessly boxed in
Little Bourke-strect, and decided he would
never get to know his way about big cities.
Finally he got so far immersed in the bowels
of the ship that he lost his way, not only
horizontally but also vertically. He did not
know whether, if he followed the path he had
taken, he would meet the open air or the
bunghole. A deathlike silence reigned. Streets
and lanes stretched in all directions and
not a soul in any of them. It was past
the peak hour, apparently, and even the
traffic cops had been withdrawn from the
intersections. Or (disturbing thought!) per-
haps the s.r. had been lost longer than he
thought, and it was Sunday, and all tin- in-
habitants were out motoring on the boat
deck. Or perhaps a revolution had broken
out amongst the stewards, and the popula-
tion, including the captain, the wireless
operators, the sports commodore, the musi-
cal director, the rear-admiral iu charge of
the sanitary system, the editor and staff of
the ship’s newspaper and the baths com-
mittee had been exterminated, the revolu-
tionaries had eaten each other and nothing
was left but this, shell of civilisation, which
might drift about the seas for an indefinite
time before it was rediscovered. The s.r.
recalled that there are cities in Central
Asia, complete in every particular, includ-
ing churches and yoshiwaras, which have
lain untenanted for 20 centuries. Worse
thought still, perhaps he had strayed into a
portion of the ship which had been built
early in her construction and forgotten by
the designers.
Feeling that something must be done in
this emergency the lost s.r. opened what
looked like an exit, but which turned out
to be the door to a cupboard. There was a
cockroach in it. It was the first really
human thing lie had encountered on the
Strathnaver and he felt like embracing it.
The cockroach felt like it too. It was as
lonely as lie was. If assured the s.r., with
tears in. its eyes, that, it was the only cock-
roach on the Strathnaver. It had had a
long and distinguished career in the P. and
O. service, having first joined the Medina,
travelled with the King and Queen to the
Durbar in India, transferred to the original
Maloja while at Brindisi, been torpedoed
twice but escaped in a lifeboat, and always
succeeded in securing a berth in each fresh
triumph of P. and O. architecture after the
previous one had been sent to the knacker’s
yard or to the bottom. It had reared several
large 'families while in the service and
hitherto had never failed to support them
in the style to which a first-saloon cock-
roach is accustomed. But this was the
tightest ship it had ever been in. It had
nothing to say against the Strathnaver on
the score of marine engineering—the steam-
driven turbines connected with alternators
which transmitted their power to reversible
motors were doubtless a tribute to British
genius—but it was difficult to make a living
on a ship in which even the potatoes were
peeled by electricity. Also it felt keenly the
absence of female companionship. It asked
if the old Ilygeia was still running and on
being answered in the negative looked dis-
appointed. As a last resort, it said, it would
take a shore job of some sort, but the s.r.
informed it that, since the depression there
was no waste on shore, not even in Govern-
ment departments. Still, it might try one
of Clapp’s station restaurants. “There’s
a depression on, is there?” said the cock-
roach, sharpening its teeth on a piece of
old Scottish mural decoration in the polished
oak panelling of the cupboard. “Funny, I
hadn’t heard of it!”
When the s.r., following the cockroach’s
directions, regained the shore, he met a
wharf-laborer leaning on a bollard survey-
ing the Strathnaver (22,500 tons, 004 feet
overall, 150 feet from waterline to mast-
head. which is higher than the Melbourne
building limit). “Fine lump of a ship, ain’t
she?” said the lumper. “Fancy holdin’ her
up!”
“Ruddigore,” which comes between “The
Mikado” and “The Yeomen” in Gilsullivan
chronology, has the most attractively fantastic
plot of all the Savoy operas, and some of the
cleverest orchestral music that ever dripped
from Sullivan’s pen is embodied in its score.
It is missed out of all save the most extensive
revival seasons because there is nothing in it
that sticks forcibly in the memory—no lyrics
of the quotable popularity of “Take a Pair”
or “A Wandering Minstrel,” nor patter songs
as memorable as “When I First Put This
Uniform On” or “No Shadow of Doubt”—but
it makes a rattling good show in capable
hands, as was proved by the Firm at Sydney
Her Majesty’s on Saturday. Strong features
were the clear enunciation of Ivan Menzies,
without which half the delightfulness of the
stor.y would have been lost; the fine character
acting of John Ralston as the wicked baronet
who reformed, and the metamorphosis (com-
menced in “Cox and Box”) of Leo Darnton,
who is commencing to forget that he is a
singer and to remember that he is an
actor. As Dick Dauntless he lets himself go
“AS HUSBANDS GO,” AT SYDNEY CRI.
(Top) Campbell Copelin and Iris Darby shire survey each other with mixed emotions.
(Below) Leslie Victor, Harvey Adams, Ethel Morrison, Agnes Doyle and Rene Jope
stage the tableau, “Behold the Giraffe!”
and enjoys the fooling provided for him,
and the audience enjoys it too. Evelyn Gar-
diner’s Dame Hannah is one of her best
characterisations to date, and Marie Brem-
ner as the damsel who consults a book of
etiquette while being wooed earns a breeze of
chuckles. Andrew MacCunn and his hand
deal faithfully with the score, which de-
serves such fidelity, containing as it does
some of the finest purely English light music
ever written. Staging is adequate and
choruses are well managed.
* * *
Sydney Playbox is going to have a Christ-
mas vacation, winding Tip its year with
performances of “The Man Who Ate the
Popomack” (to-night) and “Phillip’s Wife”
(to-morrow night) and a revival of “It’s a
Wise Father” (Saturday).
* * *
A disappointing and possibly disappointed
audience listened to the Vic. Prof. Orch. ren-
dering Tchaikowsky’s “Pathetic” Symphony
at the Town Hall on Friday. The musicians
seemed to. be infected with the prevailing
depression and gave an unnecessarily lugu-
brious interpretation. The evening livened up
when Henri Penn sat down to Liszt’s “Toten-
tanz,” which he rattled through with fire
and enthusiasm and his usual digital dex-
terity. Conductor McAnally steered the
orchestra through two of his own composi-
tions. It was difficult to gauge the merits
of “Life Triumphant,” because life failed
to triumph over portion of the orchestra,
getting an early knockout from the excessive
enthusiasm of the brasses. “The Philosophy
of Life” sounded disconnected.
# ¥ ¥
.Tim Gerald’s outsize,in suits arrived at
Melbourne Tiv. last week with the Rev.
James inside it. The chief difference between
the Gerald show and the one Mo took the
blame for is that it is a little more polite.
* ¥ *
George Wallace has settled down into his
stride or strides at Melbourne Bijou. When
Tiie Bulletin last toiled up the stairs of
that antique temple of entertainment a full
house was surveying the comedian in the
latest ebullition of his genius, which seemed
as like the last one as one pair of female
legs in tights is like another. George is
alleged to have no fewer than IB more revues
under his hat ready for presentation.
The Firm decided that Melbourne could
stand more than a week of “The Merry
Widow” at the Royal, and that piece will
hold the boards until Saturday, when “Oh,
Lady! Lady!” will arrive, complete with
exclamation marks.
* * #
Bernard Heinze seldom fails to draw a
full house to Melb. Town Hall, but the vast
chamber looked like a section of the Northern
Territory when a concert of Empire music
was provided on Armistice Night under the
auspices of the united Empire societies. The
reason for the smallness of the audience may
have been (a) that music-lovers doubted
whether the Empire’s natural resources in
music would be equal to the occasion, (&)
that they took literally the statement of the
Rev. J. H. Cain that Armistice Day should
be regarded as a day for the celebration of
international goodwill, or (c) that they had
heard that the proceedings were to open
with a patriotic speech by knight James
Barrett. In any case, there is better Brit-
ish music than Elgar’s “Pomp and Circum-
stance,” Isabel Biddell made “Land of Hope
and Glory” a little less pompous than usual,
and Handel’s “Largo,” regarded as British
for the occasion, was very well rendered,
with William McKie at the organ.
* * *
General Depresh having expressed his
readiness to agree to an armistice, J.C.W.
will stage their usual Christmas panto, at
Melb. Royal. Everything will be done on a
scale of unparalleled magnificence, the ballets
being under the direction of Jennie Brenan,
and the music in charge of William Quintrel-1.
The name of the show will be “Sinbad the
Sailor" —not that that has any significance,
but a lot of pantos, have been called that,
and you’ve got to call a panto, something.
The Palette.
With few exceptions the 16 painters of
the Contemporary Group, whose show occu-
pies the walls of Sydney’s Macquarie Gal-
leries, seem to have submitted the results of
experiments. Whether the experiments were
successful or not) in the eyes of the experi-
menters it is difficult to guess, since the aim
is not apparent. Present critic liked best
a pair of studies of fruit by E. A. Harvey,
in which the drawing is impeccable, the
colors correct, the lighting normal and the
general composition pleasing to the common
eye, but in these cases there was no pioneer-
ing. The same applies to a head of a negro
painted by Adelaide Perry and a conventional
pencil-sketch by Arthur Murch. There are
two rather tepid tinted drawings of heads by
Mildred Lovett that are understandable, and
Joseph Connor’s water-color of oil-tanks is
recognisable at a glance as a very clever
study of lighting. For the rest, there are
landscapes that appear to have been drawn
in Mars or on the moon; flowers and trees
that look like agonised octopuses, and color
contrasts that are positively wicked accord-
ing to accepted canons. If the disciples of
these new methods would compile a diction-
ary of symbols it might be possible to trans-
late their efforts into something intelligible.
Monte Luke’s show of camera pictures,
practically all bromoils, demonstrates
the versatility of Sydney’s most popular
theatrical portraitist. Bromoil lies midway
between straightout photography and painting.
The camera gives outlines and the location
of masses, but the maker of the picture
lias control of the whole range of light and
shade. Mr. Luke, in his landscapes, has used
this power judiciously. In the portrait sec-
tion are some very impressive studies,
amongst the more striking of these being
“The Cloak” and pictures of Mr. Lukas
brothers-of-th e-lens Harold Cazneux and E.
O. Hoppe. Mark Hambourg’s strong, heavy
features, Baden-Powell’s weather-beaten
lineaments and the more delicate lines of
E. T. Fiske’s countenance are each given
their most favorable lighting. There are
also some excellent costume studies from the
stage.
The most successful of John Eldershaw s
water-colors; exhibited at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, are those in quiet tones.
“Seine-side, Paris,” mostly in greys, gets the
essence of the gay city’s charm in a few r
strokes. “Grey Haven and "Old ooden
Mill” are similarly effective. A landscape
dominated by a poplar in autumn dress is
harsh; a Venetian canal sketch featuring an
orange-hued sail doesn’t seem to ' hang
together, and the one flower-study is as hard
as nails. In “Little Bridge” the reflection
looks unduly elongated.
“F.S.”: One of the most distressing spec-
tacles for a practising artist is the way the
art of the past is prized not for its intrin
value but for its rarity or antiquity. Soi
body has just discovered an alleged Tur
in Perth, and from the descriptions, wh
state that it is a picture compiled fr
several sketches of Venice, it appears
belong to the great master’s worst period,
when he was not so much a painter as a
picture-maker. The probabilities are that
there are better paintings being executed
in Australia which their painters haven’t
a ghost of a chance of selling, but the
pwners of the Turner expect to get thou-
sands of pounds in London for their dis-
covery. An alleged Guido Reni has been
fished out of a lumber-room in Maoriland.
It may be worth anything up to £20,000.
Even if it is only a copy of Reni, made in
Reni’s time, it may fetch £5OOO. Accord-
ing to the estimation of the art mart an
obvious potboiler, if it is old enough, is worth
more than the greatest work of a modern
genius, over whose masterpieces the connois-
seurs of the future will duly make fortunes.
That is wdiy painters see red when connois-
seurs like Randall Davies are given the job
of purchasing pictures for national galleries.
J. J. Hilder was glad to accept a few
guineas for paintings which have since
changed hands for hundreds, and there are
artists in Australia doing work more
significant than Haider’s and scarcely earn-
ing money enough to buy paint and canvas.
The exhibition of the Australian Art
Association at the Athenaeum, Melbourne,
is a grand show or a stodgy one, accord-
ing to what you’re in search of. If
you go into an art show looking for a con-
vincing illusion of life, for something caught
in paint of the magic, subtlety, loveliness
and variety of natural light and color, then
the Three A’s will probably disappoint you.
though the blow will be softened somewhat
by Miss Bale’s pleasant flower studies, a
water-color by Harold Herbert, Amalie
Field’s well-controlled head of a stout chef
in his robes of office, and the bright and
lively landscapes of A. Colquhpun, sen. If
you go into an art show looking for pic-
tures painted according to various rules and
regulations laid down by dead and gone
academicians, then the Three A’s will satisfy
your wildest expectations. The rules and
regulations are even affecting the art of
•A..lff. Newbury and producing the common-
place street scenes of Dora Wilson. Here,
however, are two' painters who are apparently
not accepting their formulae so much as
struggling against them. 11. B. Harrison’s
“Mrs. Fred Ward” has considerable vitality,
but W. B. Mclnnes has been applying his
popular recipe for winning the Archibald
Prize so long that his attempt to escape from
it in “Ivan Menzies” has thrown that emi-
nent comedian into a state of tonal con-
fusion.
Four Melbourne artists have been holding
a show of various mediums and varied
achievement at the Fine Arts Gallery.
Charles Nuttall, known for his humorous
drawings, is best represented by two clever
etchings—one of a couple of Malays watch-
ing their cocks fight and another of an
abo. storyteller making the eyes of a group
of delightful children bulge with a descrip-
tion of the bunyip. Allan Jordan has been
trying to capture some of the subtlety of
Melbourne’s winter atmosphere per the very
difficult medium of the woodblock, and in
“The Changing Skyline,” “Exhibition Build-
ing” and “Winter Sunshine, Fitzro.v
Garden,” lias succeeded in nabbing some of
the bolder contrasts. Veteran etcher John
Shirlow has recorded the features of Conrad
Saycc very aptly with his pencil, and his
etchings are up to his usual standard. The
room devoted to Bulletin artist Esther
Paterson is brightened by “Battersea Park-
—here she has caught with considerable
vividness a quick impression of sunlit grass
with figures moving about on it. “Afternoon,
Essex,” has something of the same evanes-
cent quality.
“F.S.”: Will Longstaff, whose show of
war pictures with ghostly motives in them
attracted more sentimental than artistic in-
terest in this country, has broken out in a
new place. According to a cable a mysterious
stranger, who called himself “Mr. Nobodv.
of London,” dropped into Longstaff’s studio
and commissioned him to paint a picture of
Christ holding His hands of peace and pro-
tection over both hemispheres. When fin-
ished the opus was presented* to the City
Temple, where that well-known Australian
ecclesiastic Rev. Dr. F. W. Norwood dedi-
cated it by plunging the church in darkness,
save for a ray of light that fell on the figure
of the Saviour, and preaching a sermon to
an unseen congregation, amongst whom
was the painter. The cableman did not
remark on the artistic merits of the pic-
ture, but, judging by “Menin Gate” and
others, Longstaff will have had to improve a
lot if the work is to have more than a suc-
cess of sensation. Will, who is a cousin
of knight John, did not always paint sacred
and ghostly subjects. In pre-war days he
made a living in Melbourne by painting
water-color portraits of Derby and Cup
winners.


Missing Friends.
AFFLECK, DAVID GEORGE, son of
John Affleck and Wilhemina Underwood
Wells, last heard of 24 years ago at Alex-
andra, Victoria, will hear something to lus
advantage if he communicates with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113
Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l.
LJAROLD DAGLEY GIBBS or D. SNO\W
n DEN, of W.A., lately in Sydney, write
W. M. Nairn, M.H.R., Canberra, for money
held,
ELIZABETH ANNE GARD’NER, Deceased
YVfILLIAM MILNE, formerly a taxidriver
in Melbourne, or any person knowing
his whereabouts, or that of his next-of-kin,
is requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
060 —MOTORIST’S KNIFE, Metal Haft (size as
illustration). Contains Spear Blade, Pen Blade,
Screwdriver, Crown Bottle Opener, Tin Opener, 1
Tester, File, Screw Wrench, Corkscrew, Leather
Gouge, Gimlet and Shackle, 19/6 each, post free.
mmm
115 _BOVS 3in. STAG SPORTS. Contains two
Blades, Picker and Tweezer, Hoof-pick and Nutciack
combined, Corkscrew, Screwdriver, Rhymer, with
Shackle, 9/6 each, post free.
W. JNO. BAKER,
LIMITED,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
WILKINSON
SAFETY RAZOR
Made in ENGLAND.
E
M
P
I
R
E
df
d
ď
M
O
D
E
L
With 2 Hollow-ground Blades and
Strop in Oak Case.
Positive Self-stropping Model E 7,
14/6 each.
E. H. COLLIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Stvert, Melbourne;
103 York Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Distributors.
Are You Looking for
NEW MARKETS?
YOU
can participate in this valuable trade
with the West by using the advertising
columns of the Perth
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS FOR SEPTEMBER
Figures show that Western Australia
is a splendid market for enterprising
traders.
Reach out for more business by using
the weekly with the circulation of a
daily in the West.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A dead heat —Hell.
N.S.W. country farmers are paid
t „r gallon for milk which is retailed in
Sydney at 16d. [6/l/'94.]
The grand old smcllful Yarra is beginning
to lose some of its noblest characteristics. A
few years ago the odors of the ancient river
were absolutely unique. Persons who had
successfully encountered the most blasting
and soul-destroying scents of Europe and
Asia came long distances to sample this
special fragrance, and when the bouquet of
the old stream rose up and threw itself at
them, they fell back with a shriek and had
to be carried away insensible on a board
People avlio had become case-hardened in the
guano and bone-boiling trade vvithered up
like a dishcloth struck by lightning when
this inventor of all smells greeted them in
its pristine magnificence. When a foreign
ship came in the captain generally gave one
distracted glance around, and then hanged
himself to get away from the subtle influence
THE POWER OF WOMAN’S TONGUE.
“Mr. and Mis. Eather are now in the Debtors’ Prison,
Darling-hurst. Mrs. Eather slandered a neighbor, who sued for
damages and made Mr. Eather defendant in the action, the costs
and damages in which being unsatisfied, the two defendants were
torn from their family and incarcerated under the barbarous New
South ‘Wales slander law.” —Daily paper.
WIFE: “Alas! To think that my tongue should have got
us in here, and cast our seven children on the
charity of a cold world. Would that it could get
us out as easily!’
HUSBAND (in the security oj his cell ): “Well, my dear,
your tongue is a -perfect rasper. Suppose you try
it on one of those iron bars?”
(“Hop.” — 9/8/ ’9O.]
that floated in the air, and to escape from the
scenery. Whether these things were any
worse in the region that he went to isn’t
known. Even Gehenna couldn’t smell like
the Yarra, or the Devil would have broken
up and died long ago, or else he would
have left in disgust and dragged his Avcax-y
tail along the sad seashore in search of a
new home. Now and then, however, a person
grew acclimatised to Melbourne’s noble river,
and then Death passed him by for ever after-
wards, for it kneAv well that if it struck him
it .would hit something so solid that it would
only damage itself in the concussion and pro-
bably be lame for the rest of its life. An
individual of this description became so
horny inside that lie could swallow lighted
gas, and live crabs, and firearms that Averc
in the act of going off. and burning kerosene,
and he could also kindle fires on his stomach
if he wanted to. And now all this is changed.
An obtrusive board has gone to work and
spoiled the grand old curiosity for ever. The
Yarra still smells, but it is a common, plain,
ordinary, mean, underhand smell, such as
niight be met with on a thousand other rivers
m all parts of the xvorld. More than one
archbishop started to use obscene language
when he smelt the Yarra as it used to be, and
two canons and an archdeacon committed
common assault and battery after being
two minutes in its vicinity, and denied the
existence of the apostles, and began to trade
in infidel literature, and ceased to spell the
Almighty with a capital letter; but all these
things are of the past. [l2/7/’9o.]
One of the celebrities of Sydney is a cow
which comes- placidly down King-street every
day to be milked at the premises of its
owner, a local butcher. . The presence ot
this cow gives a refreshing, bucolic aspect
to the locality, and is reminiscent of hay
and green fields. It is the calmest, gentlest,
most affectionate old cow that ever meandered
with a distended udder down a city street,
and its name is Fanny or Polly or something
like that. All the children know it, and
pull its ears in salutation, and the adult
dwellers thereabouts smack it affectionately
upon the tail and pass the time of day with
the animal. When it has called in at its
owner’s premises and been milked, it wanders
back to the Domain with the same reflec-
tive step, and lies upon the grass. ’Buses
and cabs give way to this cow, and even
trams stop to let the kindly animal go by,
and only whistle at it when its movements
are too gradual. All the old, reliable
Domain loafers know it, and they use it as
a pillow at night, and milk it surreptitiously
into their hats in the dewy morn; and the
Domain policeman speaks kindly to it, and
gives it a friendly whack with his large
hand on the spine when they chance to meet.
The King-street cow is an institution in
Sydney, and when it dies the place will
never look quite the same again. [2O/l/’94.]
The people who poke their alpenstocks in
your eye about Katoomba [writes Sappho
Smith] are not frantically mountaineering
in appearance. The women topple about the
various slippery gorges in
trimmed skirts and lace-
edged petticoats, and even
evening shoes, which sug-
gest twisted ankles to the
sympathetic observer. I
saw one girl negotiating a
fall in bow-toed slippers
and four inches of white
embroidery round her
under-skirt, which she was
clutching desperately out
of the puddles, together
with her upper garment—
but, all the same, the open-
work was four inches deep
in soil, and the poor dam-
sel looked as if she would
give her jewel-box to be
able to prove an alibi on
the spot. Low as the Blue
Mountains undoubtedly are
when compared with the
world’s average, still they
are quite high enough to
make knackerbocke'rs and
skirts to the knee a crying
necessity to the woman
who wants to look pre-
sentable and feel comfort-
able when careering on the
mountain’s brow; and
these Dorothy Dragglctails,
towing their sodden, fasli-
ionably-cut skirts over the
vertical face of nature,
show how city-deep is the
Australian art of dressing
yourself. Oddly enough,
there is an attempt at the
proper sort of thing from
the waist up where it
doesn’t matter what you
wear. You see mannish
shirts, neckties (“What a
loud taste you women have
for scarfs!” said a dis-
gusted man to me—“you
rush for red neckties as if
you were so many bull-
fighters” ), sloppy coats,
and tweed caps, but sense
swishes off into sagging
multitudinous . draperies
below the meridian, and
the beautiful promise of the
upper-half of the Blue
Mountain girl is unfulfilled.
And the saddest part of my
song is that the Draggle-
tails will continue indefi-
nitely despite all shrieks —-
or at least they will last
until we stand on a different
footing. The typical Australian maiden’s
large, shingle-shaped tootsies do not make
the fair owner’s fancy lightly turn to
thoughts of tucks.
[27/l/’94.]
It is related of the late “Locky” Mcßean,
the millionaire N.S.W. squatter, that when
a certain Queensland station was for sale
at Melbourne, he timed the journey so as to
reach the Yic. capital on the morning of the
sale. To liis dismay he found it had been post-
poned for a month. To return to Woorooma
and come again in a month avus too much.
He consulted the “Wanted” column of the
“Argus,” picked upon a billet as a gardener
in the suburbs, applied, Avas engaged and got
to Avork. At the end of the three weeks he
gave the usual notice, and received in due
time his month’s cheque. He attended the
sale, whereat the only other bidder was the
man in whose garden he had worked for a
month. Locky bought the property and
returned home jubilant. [l7/2/’94.]
Potatoes were at famine prices in Melb.
this time last year. It led to great planting
in Gippsland, the failure being of the West-
ern crops. Now potatoes are 501 b. for a
shilling retail in Melbourne. [l4/7/’3l.]
A MEMORY OF THE PAST.
The discovery of another “petrified man”
in New South Wales seems to hold out a
hope that some explorer may yet dig down
among the ruins of the buried past and
disinter the remains of the original Aus-
tralian, so that we may at least form some
faint idea' of what that lost, forgotten
ancestor was like. Australia, so far, is
almost the only continent which shows prac-
tically no traces of an ancient civilisation,
but this fact is no proof that an ancient
civilisation never existed. Possibly, away
down among the thirsty sands of the in-
terior, there may yet be found some pre-
historic city standing just as it stood
60,000 years ago, when the breath of cala-
mity came upon it and the whole show
busted up. Some old legislature may be
disinterred there, and the fossil of the member
who was telling the other member to come
outside may be discovered shaking a stony
fist at a stony head that started back in
dismay in the year one, and a gigantic stal-
actite that used to be a Premier may be
found rising to a point of order just as
Death struck him when he was half-way
up. Likely enough the primeval news-
paper office is still there, and in the upper
room the skeleton of the last compositor
stands, still reaching for that ancient comma
that he was going to put in his stick when
the sandstorm and the volcano came along,
and he dried up and shrivelled with his un-
finished paragraph in his hand. Further
down the old extinct editor is probably
sitting to this day, a mere collection of
rattling bones with a little hair on top,
his sightless eyes still fixed on the article
written in a dead language, in the course
of which he jumped on his. “loathsome
contemporary” away back in the buried
ages, and stated that the imbecile who ran
thct paper across the street had neither
sense nor boots nor grammar nor common
honesty, and that he was drunk half the
time and either asleep or engaged in de-
frauding orphans the other half. And in
the doorway there rests in peace a shape-
less heap of tatters and fluff that used to
be that festering affliction who signed him-
self “A Ratepayer,” and who fell and died
there just as he was coming in with a
communication that would have filled the
whole of the front page, in the course of
which he drew attention to the fact that a
beggar w r ho infested his street ought to be
taken away and abolished. And if “A
Ratepayer” isn’t there, it is a dead certain
thing that “Pro Bono Publico” or “Con-
stant Subscriber” is there instead ; so it is
all the same. Lower still, on the ground
floor of the structure,_ there may be traced
a gaunt, dried-up thing that used to be
the business manager, with the brass hat
that was popular in that era driven firmly
down over his fleshless skull, seated placidly
in front of a heap of oxide and dry-rot
and old nails that was once a desk. And
alongside his peaceful, contemplative dust
we would naturally look for a small pile
of debris and flinders and bits of exploded
human being—the last remains of the sub-
scriber who dropped in and wanted an item
inserted free just when the great dust
avalanche was rising, on that disastrous
day when the establishment was closed up
by the act of God and the paper didn’t come
out any more. Where is that buried para-
graph now, and what was it all about.
Ask the illiterate kangaroo who has hopped
unconcernedly over the ruined enterprise all
through the dull, slow-moving ages. Ask
the wild dog who has scornfully trodden
above the lost intelligence of that extinct
journal, or tlio emu who has tor
uncounted centuries on one tough iudi-
gestible limb on top of the unknown dead,
or the remains of the three citizens who
were just coming in with a large stick
apiece and an angry dog to ask the editor
what he meant by the. disloyal and blas-
phemous observations in lus last issue,
when the great catastrophe came upon him,
and they and the three sticks and the dog
went down together to one common gia\e.
[2B/6/’9o.]
Some years ago, when Gisborne (M.L.)
was known as Turanganui, and when the
wily pakeha had settled but sparsely amongst
the ingenuous Maoris of Poverty Bay, lived
an old whaling captain named Reul, who
carried on a roaring business in red shawls,
colored petticoats, blankets and fisli-liooks
with the natives of that district. The equiva-
lent value of a fish-hook was, perhaps, a
few hundred acres of land or so Reid made
his own terms. No banks were established
at Turanganui in those days, and the captain
issued pound notes of his own, payable on
demand. One native, who had fallen out with
the storekeeper, chanced to possess about
£3OO of this paper. Knowing that the notes
wore Reid’s, and hoping to inconvenience
the captain by so doing, the Maori carefully
gathered the securities together, placed them
in his “whare,” and burnt the whole lot.
Fearing lest Reid should become cognisant
of his action and take criminal proceedings
against him, the innocent savage made a
clean breast of his action to the captain, and
offered any reparation in his power. At
first the captain refused to compromise and
threatened the Maori with gaol, but eventu-
ally he relaxed and agreed to take 30,000
acres of the best land in the district, and
let the matter drop. Little wonder that,
when Reid died, the stamp duty in probate
on his estate amounted to £3OOO or so.
Since this took place civilisation lias blotted
out all the ingenuousness of the native race.
[6/2/’92.]
THE UNIVERSAL PRAYER.
I ask Thee not, O gracious Lord,
For prize of power or rich award;
I ask Thee not for tongue of flame
To fire my Muse and.spread my fame;
No laurel crown do I desire,
To no dim heights my hopes aspire;
Not mine the quenchless lust of gain,
Not mine the wish to rule and reign;
But here in peace and calm content
To Heaven my poor petition’s sent —
Give me, O Thou wfibin mortals bless
(For one small want I must confess),
Give me—to crown my happiness—
A little more than I possess.
P. LUFTIG
[4/8/’94.]
SONG OF THE POLITICIAN.
Oh, the streams will flow with honey,
If our side wins,
And the trees will sprout with money,
If our side wius,
And a- gay, full-dressed millennium
Will come on the proscenium,
And Fate ring up the curtain,
If our side wins!
Oh, we’ll live on luscious manna,
If our side wins,
While the angels sing hosanna,
If our side wins,
And a reign of general charity
And uncontrolled hilarity
Shall dominate the planet,
If our side wins.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies In South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitttd. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1873.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. :
■ F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wrri. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN,
HEAD OFFICE ..... BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAIvIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
đ
d
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
notes-tips-results m
fHE AUSTRALASIAN
OH SALE. ALL STATES*6?
ABORIGINALITIES
“Dr. Mivart”: A case of great zoological
interest has recently been brought to my
attention, and I hasten to give it to the world.
It was reported to me by Mrs. Blifkins, who
THE M(O)AN ON THE LAAD.
AGRICULTURAL INSPECTOR : “Well, how are your crops this
year, Mr. Swingletree?”
MR. SWINGLETREE : “No good,.Mister. No good ’tall. The early-sown all rotted, the
meejum-sown ain’t sown at all, an’ th’ late-sown ’ll burn orf ’fore they come to
anything.”
purveys greengroceries and cherishes in a
well-stored mind a host of strange narratives.
A lady who resided at Bondi, and, like all
denizens of that seaside resort, was much
addicted to bathing, became very ill. She suf-
fered with pains first in her stomach and
then in all her limbs, and at last she was
conveyed to a hospital. There, after X-ray
examination, blood-tests and other researches,
she was opened up. The surgeon dropped his
scalpel and nearly fainted with horror when
he saw glowering at him from the lady’s
inside two cruel green eyes and a great
curved beak. AVhat had happened was that
the unfortunate lady, while gambolling in the
sea, had swallowed an octopode’s egg. This
had germinated, and the creature had spread
its tentacles through every part of its host-
ess’s anatomy. The case, Mrs. Blifkins says
(and I concur with her on that point), was
beyond the aid of medical science. The per-
mission of his Majesty the King was speci-
ally obtained (Mrs. Blifkins says that has to
be done in such cases), and the lady was
mercifully dispatched with a small dose of
cyanide of potassium, which also slew the
monster that had taken possession of her
internal economy.
“Jan J.”: I was just about to fell a bee-
tree when a friend who measures 77in. hap-
pened along. The tree was' a dry one, iii
the centre of a clearing about 60 yards in
diameter, and as it fell a limb above the
hive broke off and erupted six little grey
squirrels. They charged straight at us,
passed me by as beneath their notice, and
the next moment my tall friend was engaged
in a desperate struggle with six furry furies.
Before I could come to his assistance one
had scaled him from the rear, reached his
crown and volplaned thence to the foot of the
nearest tree. Then we both realised that the
squirrels had ,no homicidal intentions, and
stood still while each in turn launched
himself from the crown of my friend’s head.
They made for him because he was the
tallest object in the clearing.
❖ ❖ ❖ $
“Hamer”: “Never ’eard tell o’ blokes
breedin’ dawgs fer their fleas?” said the
dusty one. “Well, I ain’t surprised"; I only
struck it in one districk I was in—Blooville
Plains. It started with Pat Moses bettin’ Ike
O’Brien a quid ’is dawg could scratch more
fleas off of ’imself than Ike’s. They white-
washed patches on the floor so as the fleas
could be seen easy, an’ appointed scruteneers
an’ referees an’ timekeepers, an’ let er go;
Ike’s dawg won. Prom then' on every bloke in
the districk wot ’ad eny ambition was
breedin’ dawgs ter scratch fleas, an’ no
sooner was one record made that it was
broke be another dawg. A bagman oo’ trav-
elled them parts made a forchune selling a
special flea-food; you fed it to the dawg
an’ the fleas on it increased an’ multiplied.
The dawgs got that way that it gave you
the itch ter look at ’em. The thing come
to an end with Jim Moseley’s dawg Cham-
pion Fleaspot the Third. There’s been tork
of Jim’s cliampeen for munce before the big
exhibition performance came orf. Orl the
aristocracy of the districk rolled up. The
crowd in the ’all attached ter Ryan's pub
was enormous-—an ’undred an fifty seven!
A DESPERATE SITUATION.
CADDIE: “What would you like now, sir?”
NOVICE (who is badly ditched ): “If there is anything in the bag that looks like a ferret,
hand it over.”
Jim ’ad laughed a treat when someone
challenged ’is dawg ter scratch more’n
10,000 fleas, 8763 being the previous record;
an’ a big bet was made over it. Ryan, in a
rash moment, announced that ’e was goin’ ter
pay a tenner for every ’undred fleas scratched
over the 10,000. You can imagine the ex-
citement when Jim brought ’is cliampeen in,
loosed ’is legs—the flea-dawgs ’ad ter be
’oppled like trottin’ ’orses, ter give ther
insecks a chance of ’anging on—an’ the go
started. You never see anythin’ as willin’
as that dawg! Pleas! They fell orfer ’im
like a rain, as ’e dug at ’imself with ’is ’ind
legs. The blokes on the tally ’ad only a small
space each ter watch, but they ’ad ter go
’ell for leather ter keep up with the count,
whilst the referee burst into sweat as ’undred
was added to ’undred, an’ thousand ter thou-
sand. The mob nearly lifted the roof when
10,000 went up. But the dawg was still goin’
good, an’ there was new cheers as tenner after
tenner was ticked orf agen Ryan. Ryan was
the only bloke there as didn’t look ’appy. ’E
saw ’is farm mortgages eaten up, an’ then
saw ’is ’otel goin’, too. It looked soon as if
Jim would own everything Ryan ’ad: but
suddenly a cry of wonder went up from the
crowd. There was no dawg any longer. ’E
’ad scratched an’ scratched until ’e’d
scratched is ’ole self erway. That’s ’ow
Ryan got outer it; ’e said that, as there
was no dawg, there couldn’t be no champeen-
ship. An’ that killed th’ sport.”
* -!* * *
“Gradex”: “Der Jong” (B‘. 21/10/’3l)
has given only a glimpse of the perils that
beset one in British East Africa. When I
was coffee-planting in Kenya Colony I came
across the carcase of a boar. A native boy
sent out with instructions to burn it was,
amazed to see the body fairly seething with
huge ants of a species quite new to him—
about Gin. long by 21in. round. Startled by
a fiendish whoop, the boy turned, to see
armies of ants advancing on him from all
sides. There was no chance of escape by
running, so he shinned up the only tree in
the clearing—a dead stump about ten feet
high. Gurgling with delight, the ants rushed
the tree and tried to climb it, but the weight
of their gorged bodies was too much for
their legs. As fast as one hero climbed,
encouraged by the shouts of his comrades, he
slithered helplessly back on top of them. The
boy told me later that the look of baffled
rage on the faces of the ants would have
been laughable if his position had been a
little less precarious. Before long, however,
the constant slipping of the ants’ legs on the
trunk set up such a friction that the parched
wood began to smoulder. Then, in mass for-
mation, they went at that stump like demons.
Soon the smouldering wood burst into
flames and the ants retired to await the
downfall of their prey. The flames were
already licking- around the boy’s toes and
he was preparing to sell his life dearly when
Providence intervened. A fresh breeze
sprang up and scattered dense clouds of
smoke along the ground, momentarily discon-
certing the battalions. Seizing his oppor-
tunity the boy sprang down and broke
through the ranks. The ants’ bellow of rage
on finding their quarry had escaped was
heard at the far end of the plantation, and
dislodged slats off the roof of my bungalow
half a mile away.
* * * *
“Seporu”: Queensland arboricultural ex-
perts are claiming that a wild lime-tree on
Chinchilla station, Darling Downs, is pro-
bably the oldest tree of any variety in
the Commonwealth. The wild lime, which
is found scattered all over western Queens-
land, is, as a rule, a scrubby, brushy little
tree which never seems to grow appreciably.
This 1 fellow is 18in. diameter at the bole, or
a foot more than any other tree of its kind
found in Australia. The fruit, in proper
hands, makes the most delicious jam-mar-
malade, with a flavor quite unlike that of
any other, and it can also be converted
into a pickle fit to place before a king. No
western Queensland household in bygone
days was complete without both, and guests
who had once sampled the confections in-
variably went away laden with pots and
bottles of the newly-discovered delicacy.
* * $ *
“Ivooragai” : .It isn’t always the male bird
that’s cock o’ the walk. In the domestic
affairs of the bustard quails, for instance,
the female is boss. She is the larger of the
pair, and does all the fighting when squabbles
occur, being a dominating and pugnacious
shrew. She chooses her own mate, doing the
calling and love-making—which is mostly
bounce ; and, having laid her clutch of eggs,
leaves the hatching and rearing of the brood
to father, while she goes off to have a good
time, not infrequently picking up with
another bloke, who is similarly saddled with
domestic cares and deserted. Poor hen-
pecked Mr. Quail is a good parent; he takes
the family about through the grass, feeding
them diligently, and at night they all nestle
under him like chickens under a hen. The
bustard quails, comprising seven species, of
which the painted or dotterel quail is the
best known, are easily distinguished from the
other Australian quails, as they have three
frontal toes only, while the others have three
in front and one behind.
R.S.V.P.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Coin’ to a party down at Cudmore’s,
Swishest invitation I ’ave seen:
R.S.V.P. printed ’cross the corner;
Couldn’t think at first what it might
mean.
Sarah ses it’s French for “bring a present” ;
Dunno that I like that sort o’ flam.
But Sarah ses they do it down in Sydney,
So Mum is goin’ to take a pot of jam.
Sarah likes the way they talk at Cudmore’s,
“Nice” to them is “naice” an’ “town” is
“tahn” ;
Some words they say ’ave fairly got me
jiggered,
’Twould take a bloke a week to write ’em
“dahn.”
But Sarah alius was inclined to swankin’—
She’ll talk of “limbs” where other girls
say “legs”—
She ses we must accept the invitation,
So she intends to take a dozen eggs.
Dad's been talkin’ far from compliment'ry ;
Ses Cudmore is a bloke that ougliter
swing;
“Pinched me wall-eyed dawg ’e did, the
blighter :
I wouldn’t give the coot a flamin’ thing.’ ”
But Mum, began to cry an’ Sarah whim-
pered,
Which made ’im promise anything to
please
(Makes me sick the way the wimmin bluff
’im) ;
So Dad will take a tin of axle-grease.
isr.s.w.
TAL ORDELL.


QUEENSLAND
Is Your Market!
Why not exploit it fully? Its favor-
able position is known and admitted
by everyone.
Tell the people of Queensland of your
goods and services. There is no better
vehicle open to you than the press —
the most powerful of all advertising
mediums. Particularly should your
first choice be
THE DAILY MAIL
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
the only daily in Brisbane that has
issued a certificate of its Net Daily
circulation, and the paper that is a
proved result-getter. Rate cards, etc.,
from
HEAD OFFICE: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ROBERT JACKSON: Daily Mail Office,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
London: R. B. BRETT & SON, New Bridge St.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
QUALCAST” lawn mowers
Model “H” MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Qualcast (Australia) Pty., Ltd.,
West Pootscray, W. 12, Melbourne.
SUITABLE FOB ALL, LAWNS
GUARANTEED FOB 3 YEARS
SPARE PARTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Prices in Capital Cities and principal
Seaport Towns.
12in. Min.
Each. Each.
Bronze bearings 50/- 52/-
Ball bearings 57/6 59/6
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING
HARDWARE STORES.
“EOTHEN”
đ
PAYING GUESTS
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
'unexcelled cuisine
\ GARAGE
Inclusive Tariff, £4-44)
“* Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
SELL&Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: « Bridie Street. Sydney.
w
“Nakh” : The Cocos-Keeling group, where
the Emden ended her career 17 years ago this
month, is a goldmine for every sort of scien-
tist, from the naturalist to the social philo-
sopher. It is difficult nowadays to dissociate
the indigenous flora and fauna from accre-
tions which include floating islands that are
constantly being washed up on the reet
after amazing voyages. Rats, mice, scorpions,
cockroaches, ants, centipedes, beetles, moths
and crickets are recent acquisitions. The
impossibility of eliminating rats from
crowded cities is shown by the history ot
the plague of rodents which afflicts Pulau
Tikus, one of the smaller islands. They have
been hunted by dogs, and special gangs of
natives are kept employed against them,
but the dogs get even lazier than the natives
r»s so.rn as the excitement of the hunt and
a bellyful of rat lose their attraction. The
Danysz virus was tried but was found to
have become inert on arrival. Rats fed on
it show r ed extraordinary fecundity. The mos-
quitoes are also unvanquisliable, as they
SAVING HIS REPUTATION.
STOCKMAN: “My word, he threw you that time, Jackie!"
JACKIE: “No fear! That pfeller not throw me—only just slip from under me.”
pass the larval stage in salt water. One, of
rlie curiosities of the group is the kapetmg
K , crab which aits the port of earth-
worm by turning the soil over. Another
crustacean is the alunc, darat, or robber crab,
which covers the atoll. Its gigantic claw
can nip through wire-netting, tear up a tin
or break the wooden bars of a cage capable
of holding a large wild animal. It varies its
menu of cocoanuts with dead rats, and. when
the Emden went ashore, ate the bodies of
German sailors. The ikan pedang, or sword-
fish (not the fish which goes by that name
with us), will transfix a thick piece of wood
when in pursuit of small fry, and its habit
of dashing in amongst bathers at the cable-
station is disconcerting. The barracouta has
been known to snap a man’s calf off in mis-
take for its legitimate quarry. One of the
most beautiful and interesting denizens of
Cocos is the kakatua, from which comes our
“cockatoo.” It is a bright green or cobalt
fish with a beak like a parrot’s, and it
browses head downwards, not on the coral,
as was once supposed, but on the film of
algfe on the coral. During the process, how-
ever, it passes hundreds of tons of coral-
dust. through its body, and the lovely beaches
of the atoll are an impressive tribute to its
industry.
=!: * * *
“Avon” : When, a hundred years ago, the
terrible Te Rauparalia swept down from the
North Island of M.L. to attack the tribes
of the south—“starting at the head and
eating his way to the tail” was his own
phrase for it —his most notable triumph
was the taking of Kaiapohia Pa, stronghold
of the aristocrats of the Ngaitahu, and centre
of South Island Maori art and culture. The
centenary was celebrated the other day at
the town of Kaiapoi, close to the site of the
pa, and just a few miles north of Christ-
church. It is situated on that ever-wander-
ing river the Waimakariri, and among other
claims to fame was the birthplace of Syd-
ney’s Tom Bavin. The celebrations,
though they were attended by the Governor
and his lady and an archbishop, required a
very strong stomach for their enjoyment.
There was prodigious feasting, and the
Maori likes his food very whiffy; the odor
of a great tangi at Ivaiapoi 20 years ago
still lingers in my memory. At these latest
rejoicings shark was absent from the menu,
dried eels being substituted; there was a
great deal of dancing, singing and speech-
making, and everything passed off very well.
Fortunately the Maori speakers all had the
good sense not to discourse upon the mean-
ing of “Kaiapohia.” An oration on that, sub-
ject, even at this late date, would set the
whole Maori race by the ears.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The incautious wader
who has once trodden on a “bullrout”
(Notcsthes rokusta) will never run the risk
of a similar experience. Owing to its habit
of lurking quietly in the mud or among the
weeds or water-lilies, the unwary wader is
liable to feel the venomous spines before
he sees the fish itself, and that is what hap-
pened to me some years ago when attempt-
ins to retrieve a wild duck on one of the
reaches of the Burnett (Q.). For several
hours I suffered the most terrific agony.
despite the constant application of ammonia
backed up by a stiff nip of branch every
20 minutes or half-hour. Sly foot swelled
to twice its normal size and on the follow-
ing morning presented the appearance of a
hob-nailed liver. -The bullrout gets in hu
devastating work by means oftwo
spines on each side of head one ot
each pair being triangulai, thepother
is long and thorn like. f | 1.
erectile at will. Plus fish .frequents tic
estuaries of rivers, but it is olten found
far up in the fresh waters of rivers and
creeks. It weighs about 21b.. is greenish-
black in color, and lias a , peculiar pro-
tuberance on the front of its head resembling
a small horn. Although its appearance is
anything but inviting, it makes good eating,
* * *
••D.H.R.”: That the Port Moresby brown
brothers were not scared by the firework dis-
play put up by Commander Erskine when
proclaiming the Protectorate “Landi Khana”
(B. 28/10/'jl) was due to the tact of the
MADE A HABIT OF IT.
“’Ow often do ’ee grease wheels of t’ old cart, Zacky?”
“Once a ’ear reg’lar, boay, whether ’e do want un or no.”
Rev. W. G. Lawes, who acted as interpreter,
and the boundless faith the natives had in
him. Even this, however, could not hold
them when the proceedings were terminated
with a solo on the steamer’s siren. The
unearthly sound seemed to shift from far
back in the hills to the centre of the village,
then to the reef, then fantastically in all
quarters. There was only one possible
explanation—a visitation of fiends. As one
man the natives fled to the shelter of their
huts and commenced the practice of anti-
fiend rites; and all that night perfect peace
reigned in Moresby.
* * -!=
“Bogaduck” : The temper of bees depends
to a great extent upon the tree or plant upon
which they are working. When the redgums
first start to yield they are furious, hut
after a few days they calm
down, and when the honey-flow
is at its height they are so
quiet and good tempered that
it is possible for the apiarist to
go about his wrnrk without
further protection than a pair
of goggles.. Working on lucerne
the insects are not more savage
than ordinary, which is a great
blessing, for a sting from a
lucerne-nectar-fed bee hurts
more than from those working
upon any other flora within my
experience. But shifted on to
the swamp tea-tree they go well-
nigh insane. Bees whose whole
aim and object in life seems to
be to jab their sting into some
living creature cruise around
the apiary, and one dare not
go within a couple of hundred
yards of the hives without the
protection of overalls tied down
over the boots, calico sleeves
reaching down to the wrists,
and a broad-brimmed straw
hat with a veil well fastened
down. Even then the work of
looking through the hives,
wheeling barrow-loads of combs
into the extracting house, etc.,
is a torture; one’s hands
become smothered in stings. All
the smoke in the world doesn’t
stop them. When they fail to
find anything living to sting
they go for an old felt hat, a
bit of rabbit-skin or even a lorry
tyre. Years ago when my bees
were on tea-tree I had to buy
a new Buff. Orp. rooster for a
cocKy living half a mile away, for they had
gone over there and stung the prize-winning
bird to death. Yet when bees are working
on any other variety of tea-tree they are
quite quiet.
* * * *
“Larrapinta” : Wonderful is the affection
of Binghi for his dogs. The most outstand-
ing instance of this I ever struck was north
of the Macdonnells, in Centralia. I met a
party of Aruntas on the wallaby; two- miles
farther on I met an old lubra tottering along
in their wake. She was barely able to stagger
with age, and on her head she carried a big
coolamon covered with a bit of old gunny.
I poured some water from my bag into her
cupped hands for her to drink, and then,
seeing the bag on the eoolamon moving,
lifted it. In place of the piccaninny whic
I expected to see P beheld four big, mud-tai
dingo pups. I told her to knock them on tn<
head and throw them away, but sue gave <
wail of terror, and with a cackle ot Lne ®“
my luckera [dogs]; mine wantem, she
fShe wake of thf'Se" staee “ rt ' d 0 “
, #
' ’ , ,' . . ,
“Old Q.’ : An unusual happening plunged
much of Brisbane in darkness the other
night, while trams stopped running in half
a dozen suburbs. Jellyfish caused the trouble.
At certain times and seasons these float up
the river with the tide literally in millions,
presenting a sight not easily forgotten. On
this occasion they choked the water-supply
pipes from the river to the City Council’s
power house, which finds the “juice” for
both lighting and trams, "with the result
that the dynamos refused to go round for
want of power. Years ago any concern
needing to pump water from the river about
this time of year took good care that the
inlets of the pipes were made jellyfisli-proof,
but they have grown careless up that way,
or perhaps the invasions are not as regular
as they used to be. When shipping was
not so thick in the river, one of the sights
of early summer was the vast mass of
mullet heading up stream. To stand on
Victoria Bridge and watch the unending
shoal passing underneath all day long was
an unforgettable experience.
* * * *
“Wandi”: That the black-tracker doesn’t
always want to get the man lie’s after was
shown in a case on a north-western N.S.W.
station. The sleuth was brought to the home-
stead by the local trooper the morning after
the station store had been broken into and
robbed. The country was partly sandy, and
partly loose soil and small stones —all easy
to track over. Binglii was an intelligent
person in uniform, and had many good
tracking feats to his credit. He trailed the
robber to a< big high rock, which he went
round twice, and apparently saw his man
hiding on the top of it. A station-hand, who
was mending a fence a short distance away,
could see both of them; he had given the
fugitive a drink from his water-bag a little
while before. The tracker left his quarry
there and followed an imaginary trail to the
shearers’ hut, where, he said, the man had
wrapped woolly sheepskin round his boots
and could not be tracked any farther. In
town, later on, the fencer asked Binghi why
he had shied off the rock. “I was hard up
one time an’ he gave me five bob,” w T as the
simple explanation.
❖ $ ijc
“Kooragai” : The male and female carpet-
snakes are affectionate creatures —to one
another. When one lias been killed, the other
will return repeatedly to look for it. They
are also cunning. While shooting with a
selector one morning I came on to a couple
locked together—Twined round and round so
that they resembled a huge rope. The selector
banged into them with a stout waddy until
both lay limp and motionless. “That’s the
end of them,” he said. But when we returned
that way a couple of hours later, we w T cre
surprised to see the pythons swimming slowly
about in the creek. At first the selector
refused to believe they were the same, but an
examination of the spot where he had bat-
tered them left no doubt on that score.
Apparently the snakes had feigned death, and
subsequently entered the water for the
purpose of putting their dislocated joints in
order. The blacks use the water cure for
many ailments, and perhaps they learned
something from the reptiles, who use it as a
salve to their injuries.
WEST O’ SUND’Y.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I like that term for Far beyond
By chaps who shoulder blueys
That might be held to correspond
To Kipling’s “East of Suez.”
With little in this eastern land
That’s any “good to Gundy,
There’s lots who’d like to be trepanned,
I’ll bet, to West o’ Sund'y.
’Twas more poetic, years agone,
But hardly half as clever
Old Shakspeare’s “Realm of Prester John,
The abos.’ “Never Never.”
Beyond this pale I’d wish to stray,
Where, if a fellow’s dunned, he
Can turn and confidently say;
“Get out! It’s West o’ Sund y.
I hate the blare of drum and fife,
The slogans and the ditties,
The “madding crowd’s ignoble strife’
You have to face in cities.
No dole is there, or any need
(Or chance) to punch the bundy..
I wish to God—l do indeed! —
That I were West o’ Sund’y.
There men are men. and women, too,
Are women —if there’s any—
And ev’rybody gets his due
As long as there's a penny.
The Briton, when conventions irk,
Lights out for Mull or Lundy.
I’m just as tired of wearing work,
And just as positive my lurk
Lies somewhere West o’ Sund’y.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


m
See Niagara Falls and
Great Lakes, via C.P.R.
COMPLETE TRAVEL SERVICE
CANADIAN PACIFIC MANAGEMENT ON
TRAINS, STEAMERS, AND AT HOTELS.
PACIFIC service covers
everything which means so much to
the traveller absolute comfort.— free-
dom from worry and personal service
that is world-renowned. It includes
luxury trains, hotels at all cities and
resorts in Canada, and the famous
“Empress” and “Duchess” Ships of the
Atlantic. For an enjoyable and carefree
journey to England, travel Canadian
Pacific. Write for literature and details.
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. 9/312
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
ZJhe World's G/'eatesf System
d
LEIPZIG
TRADE FAIR
ď
(GERMANY)
Concessions to Australian Buyers
As a special inducement to Australian Buyers deciding to visit this world-
famed centre of 10,000 exhibitors, the Trade Fair Authorities are offering
a substantial rebate on all travelling expenses to Leipzig. It is worth
your investigation.
SPRING TRADE FAIR, embracing SAMPLES FAIR (Ceramics, Textiles,
China, Glass, Toys), ENGINEERING and BUILDING FAIRS, Commence
March 6, 1932.
Visitors will not experience the slightest difficulty with the language, matters of freight,
duties and banking. The Authorities of the Fair are always at hand to help courteously
and efficiently in business negotiations.
Full details gladlv given by
LARS G. BRUNDAIIL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 81006, MW2201.
For Economical Buying—go to Leipzig !
SMOKE-OH!
“The capacity of the hall was taxed to the
utmost.’’ — “S. M. Herald.”
Need we add that it was a N. S. Wales
hall ?
“Rev. T. E. Ruth, of Sydney, complained that
he had been misrepoited.”
By all accounts there wasn’t a scintilla
of T. Ruth in the report.
* H-
“Had steps been taken earlier to co-ordinate the
’bus services, the present trouble would not have
occurred.” —Sydney paper.
As it is, we’ve missed the ’bus.
* *
THE CAUTIOUS CUSTOMER.
“Personal references satisfactory?”
“Quite, I flatter myself.”
“Have you ever figured ; an election
issue?”
“Hardly ever, sir. Of course, when the
present leader of the Opposition was in
power his opponents said we were on the
verge of insolvency, and when our present
Premier achieved office the other side said
we were on the high road to ruin. Other-
wise we have enjoyed the advantages of
comparative obscurity.”
“What about the Federal Parliament?”
“The party in power has been kind enough
to ignore >us, except for a reference or two to
the time when the currency will be inflated,
and such institutions as ours will be flung
on the scrapheap with stage coaches and
velocipedes.”
“Ever failed?”
“Only once—and then our customers were
not kept out of their money for more than
a year or so.”
“Your premises are impressive. What did
they cost?”
“A trifle, sir. Only about a million and
a half. We pride ourselves on our Spartan
RELIEF.
LUCIFER: “What’s that last batch like?”
CLERK: “Mad as rabbits—say they’re Australian taxpayers, and
think this is Heaven!”
economy in this respect. I might mention
that we have always been able to let a few
of the ninety-odd available suites to book-
makers, lottery directors, art-union special-
ists and other public benefactors; the rest
we keep for the staff to play ping-pong in,
if they choose to play ping-pong.”
“Well, subject to your references being
all right, and to your statements proving on
investigation to be true, I’ll risk opening
a small account. You seem to be in a better
position than the last Savings Bank I dealt
with.”
* *
‘‘Many Communists have been deported from
London of late.”
Devalued is old England’s pound:
Misfortunes fall upon her thick;
But Red disruptionists have found
She still has something in her kick.
“A new movement has been started in Victoria
to reduce the number of politicians.”
And Victoria isn’t the only State that
needs to cut out the muddleman.
H- *
“Nudists say the police have no right to interfere
with them, as they break no laws.”
They’ve got nothing on them, as the say-
ing goes.
* *
“Known everywhere as manufacturer of high-
class underwear.”-— “Sun,”
"What it means to have one’s name on
everybody’s slips!
*# ' '
PROBLEM.
“As women become older they tend to spend
Jess money on dress.” — Vic. Judge.
Wh en wives grow older to the view,
They often lose for dress their hunger.
But what on earth’s a man to do
With one who’s always growing younqer?
* *
DEMOCRACY’S PERILS. OR THE
INTERRUPTED BRIDGE GAME.
(A Drama.)
“Hundreds of ’busmen who have ost their jobs
through the Transport Act tried to see the Premier
at his country place, but were headed off by bodies
of police. ‘Want to see him, do you ?’ smiled one
of the constables, ‘Well, he doesn’t want to see
you. That’s why we’re here.’ ”
Scene : Cardroom of a Country Mansion.
Head Gardener (entering agitatedly) :
“Beg pardon, Squire, but the park is full of
common persons who look like electors.”
Squire: “Damme, Brown, it’s an outrage !
Tell ’em to go away.”
Head Gardener: “I have, sir, but they
keep crowding round the Lodge gates saying
you ’ave lost them their jobs, and swearing-
something terrible, sir.”
German Guest: “Sool der dogs on ’em,
Jack. I vould if I vas in 8ra5....a.”
Squire: “But this isn’t Prussia, my dear
Sehelley. Subtler methods are required. I
must promise them .something.”
Scotch Guest: “Why not rin awa’? That’s
what I do at the Trades Hall.”
Squire: “You have a convenient bolthole
there, Jock, and traffic constables in the
street outside to whom you can appeal in
the event of detection by your supporters.
No; there is only one thing for it.” (To
head gardener.) “Tell one of the maids to
bring out my soap-box.”
Butler (hurrying in affrightedly) : “Oh,
sir, they’re battering
at the gates. I’m
afraid they’re ’bus-
men.”
Dutch Guest (vin-
dictively]) : “If only
ve vos by der Zuyder
Zee instead of der
Howkesbury!”
German Guest:
“Or in Potsdam!”
Scotch Guest: “Or
in guid old Glas-
gie!”
Squire: “Get a
move on, you ser-
vants ! Where’s my
electioneering suit?
Give me that old
slouch hat, Johau-
son, and a copy of
‘Das Kapital.’ Run
the yacht round the
bend of the river
where she can’t be
seen a and hide the
Rolls. Strike up the
‘Red Flag,’ some-
one. Now then,
Jock, pluck up your
courage and take
your time from me
as we march out.”
(Sings) ‘“The
Workers' Flag is
glowing red.’ ”
Footman: “Oh, sir, sir! The Rothburv
miners! The ones you said would get their
jobs back if they struck. They’re joining
the busmen, together with a number of
ruined timber-strikers. The Lodge gates are
going, sir.”
Scotch Guest (pitifully ) ; “H'ae ye no’ a
wee back gatie to yon parrk, Jack?”
Squire: “Silence, fool. I will pacify them
by promising to borrow £100,000.000 from
foreign bloodsuckers. I have never known
the device to fail.”
German Guest (who has been looking
through telescope) : “Saved! Der bolice
have gome! Der vurkers are being driven
from der bark!”
Scotch Guest: “Three cheers for Lang’s
bashers ! Hip ! Hip !”
German and Butch Guests: “Hooray!”
Squire: “God bless the loyal fellows! I
knew I could depend on them.” (To butler.)
“Give our gallant defenders a drink in the
servants’ hall when their work is done, Chol-
mondeley.” (To guests.) “And now, gentle-
men, the danger being at an end, let us
return to the bridge table, proud and happy
in the knowledge that we have a devoted,
well-armed and well-disciplined body of
police to save us from our friends.”
* *
“Australia will rise like the Phoenix.”— “Herald.”
From its hashes, we presume.
PRIM A DONNA.
“Fine stamp of woman!”
“Yes. I think she’s come to stray all right.”
“Mystery surrounds a case of oranges found In
a Newtown street. It was taken to the police
station.”
It looks like a case for the police.
* *
“Lang’s talk is like a tin of mustard —very
hot.”— A.W.JJ. critic.
The objection to this simile is that there’s
something in a tin of mustard.
DOMESTIC VALUES.
The silence of the. suburban night was
rent by a yell, a yelp and a torrent of oaths.
Blinks had tripped over his
wife's miniature Yowleypom,
or Locust H'ound, where it
lay on the top step, and both
were now writhing on the
concrete path four full feet
below. Mrs. Blinks rushed
panic-stricken to the scene of
carnage, and in a voice sur-
charged with passionate anxi-
ety called to her beloved:
“Darling, are you all right?
Why, he might have killed
mumma’s lovely liT didnm
widums falling over him like
that, the big idiot!”
* *
BAFFLED.
The prospective murderer
gloated in the shadows. His
unconscious victim was ap-
proaching. Another minute
and the latter’s mangled re-
mains would be lying at the
foot of the embankment. But
why. that curse? Why is the
intending homicide slinking
away through the darkness?
Another case of gross careless-
ness. His idea was that the
mangled remains of his enemy
should be found below the
embankment. And he had gone
and left the mangle at home.
CLOTHES AND CHARACTER.
“Mrs. G. Trotter replied and expressed deep
appreciation of the way the League had entertained
her. Her frock was of heliotrope crepe de Chine with
collar and cuffs of coffee-colored georgette, and her
black tuscan straw hat was ornamented in front
with a grey flecked silk poppy.” .
It recalls other famous incidents:—
“As Sir Thomas laid his head upon the
block he thrust forward his beard saying:
‘Pity that should be cut; it hath done no
treason.’ Ilis shoon were of the finest
morocco, a purpose new-come from Fez,
and the buckles of Toledo steel were per-
fumed with balm and myrrh, product of
Arabia. His hose was gaily ornamented
with Manx cats, even as ladies’ legs in Parys
of to-day.”
Mr. Jock Garden concluded his address
at the Trades Hall with a rousing cry of
“Down with all capitalists”—a sentiment
which was greeted with rapturous plaudits,
chiefly in the dialects of
Russia and Poland. He
was wearing a fur-lined
motor-coat dyed to har-
monise with the red body-
work of his new car. A
neat pair of running-suoes
completed the ensemble.
“Hoots, mon,” he said geni-
ally to our Fashion Expert.
“They come in verra useful,
ye ken, for rinnin’ awa’
from the fool-strikers I’ve
let down.”
The censor signed a de-
partmental form ordering
the Bible to be excluded
from Australia on the
grounds of indecency, and
turned for intellectual
stimulus to “Eric, or Little
by Little.” He had removed
his goloshes, and was wear-
ing blue bcdsocks. Over his
unmentionables or tr-s-rs he
had modestly drawn a waist-
to-boot skirt on which was
inscribed, fore and aft, the
warning motto; “ Honi soit
qui mat y pense.” A cap
with patent visor attach-
ment capable of being-
dropped over the eyes on
the approach of a female
added to the general effect.
It is understood that the
Federal Government will
pass a measure making this
costume compulsory for all males during the
coming session.
Touchstone.
JIM'S DISABILITY.
To milk the cow I needed him.
He’d grub and fence and plough .
Toil from grey dawn till dusk grew dim —
r A grafter I’ll allow.
Yet in the end, until visage grim,
I had to give the sack to - Jim.
He couldn’t milk, the cow!
WRONG SUIT.
He pondered on that night so long ago
When he went forth, • impelled by hot
desire,
And pressed his suit with heart and soul
aglow ;
And presently imbued her with his fire
So that she soon consented to be led
Unto the church, a willing new recruit
To wedloclc. .. . He now wishes that,
instead ,
He’d stayed at home that night and
pressed his suit.
THE REASON.
“You ask me why I never went, like other
chaps, an’ tied the knot,
An’ settled down an’ lived content with
sharin’ someone elsc’s lot.
I liked Maud’s hair an’ Amy’s eyes an’
Taney’s frourn an’ Mary’s smile
An’ Ella's air o’ mystery—all held me for
a little while.
“But those who couldn’t cook looked nice, an’
those who could were dowdy ones;
An’ so I looked ’em over ttcice. ’Twas either
ugliness an’ buns,
Or Cleopatra an’ burnt bread,; so in the end
I gave it up,
An’ took the road that wound ahead with
my life-mate, a, cattle-pup.
EH, MON, BUT THEY’RE WEE!
ANGUS: “Ah only gie chanty ta th’ real pair!”
FRIEND : “But how can you recognise the real poor!”
ANGUS: “They air too prood ta accep’ charity!”
“An yet I’m not too hard to please. I’m just
av rage common bloke,
Growlin a, bit in times like these, but tryin ’
hard to see the joke,
I might have been a married man with kids
around me now ” said Bert
“1/ only looks an’’cookin' ran with one
partikler bit o’ skirt.”
P. F.


Listen-in to M'l'do Sityityiotis Stio'pshots of
Sport” Session, Station 2UW, every
Thursday, 7.15 p.m.
Mick Simmons
RIFLE
7?
; AND
/M
SPECIALISTS
Unquestionably repre-
senting the greatest
value ever offered
in this class of
Firearms l
-
li \VV, ~ '
The New
WINCHESTER
MODEL OO
Price 35/-
( Postage, 2/-', Other States, S/6)
22-cal. Single Shot Rifle, for 22 short,
long or long-rifle rim-fire cartridges. It
has a 23in. heavyweight barrel, bored,
rifled and chambered to the extremely
close tolerances necessary to ensure maxi-
mum efficiency from the various high
power .22 rim-fire cartridges that have
lately appeared on the market. Special
attention has been paid to “head spacing
between bolt and cartridge, so as to avoid
the possibility of burst rims, and provide
the solid backing that is essential to the
finest accuracy.
Other Low-priced, Dependable
SPORTING
RIFLES
No. 1--THE MAINE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt action, fitted
with plain V back-sight; for short, long or
long-rifle cartridges. Round barrel, 18in.
long, bored and rifled with the same care
as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate; weight about 31b 2 /O
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
N o. 4 BAYARD
BOLT ACTION
RIFLE, 22-cal., for short, long or
long-rifle cartridges. Take down, with
safety bolt; 20in. round barrel;
weight, about 31b 31/*
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-.
No. 8 STEVEN S’
CRACK SHOT
RIFLE, No. 26, New Model, 22-
cal., under lever action; 18in. round
barrel, knife-blade front and open
rear sight; weight, about 3fib. 33/6
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
A Low-priced Single-
Barrel Shot Gun !
No. I—HARRINGTON and
RICHARD SON’S
STEVEN’S RIVERSIDE,
o r I.VOR JOHNSON’S
S.B. B. E. GUN, 12G, top
action, automatic self-ejecting steel
barrel, solid, case-hardened pistol-
about
grip, walnut stock; weight
Carriage Paid.
55/-
MR. LIONEL. H. BIBBY
Mick Simmons’ Firearms and Ammunition
Expert, is at the service of Sportsmen on
any matter pertaining to Shooting.
New Shooting Price List post jree on
request.
All Letters to Box 720 D P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsEtd.
720-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“Australia’s Largest Distributors of
Firearms.”
F I J I
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN, £35,
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 10th December
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” ... 7th January
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS:
First-class Return, £75; Second-class, £55.
CHRISTMAS EXCURSION TO RAROTONGA.
No Exchange.
RETURN FARES: First-class, £45; Second-class, £34.
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI,” December 24.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: 87G71. Tel.: Central 8393.
kp
111
ARE you ALERT FOR
SOMETHING DIFFERENT?
.
Wm
mm
m
m
m
mmmass&sm
m
mmw.
m
§ee
jlmerica!
America, pulsing with the
life of her great cities...lav-
ish with scenic wonders...in-
vites y6u to a fascinating
visit. From the great Mojave
desert, rivaling the Sahara
...the majestic Rocky moun-
tains... the mighty Missis-
sippi "father of waters”...
Niagara Falls, among the
seven wonders of the world,
to the Catskill Mountains of
RipVanWinkle inNewYork
State, a constant procession
of new, different sights
await you.
All may be visited in com-
fort and ease over America’s
great railways.
Above Broadway, Los
Angeles, brilliantly met-
ropolitan with its great
playhouses and stores.
Pullman sleeping cars, ob-
servation cars, w diners” that
serve excellent meals ... a
co-ordination of facilities
that makes travel a delight
at exceedingly modest cost.
On your way to England, you
will find the route via New
Zealand, Fiji, Somoa and
Hawaii on Matson ships to
San Francisco, and Ameri-
can railway service from
there to your Atlantic liner
in New York, the richest in
dramatic interest.
Let us send you without
obligation, an illustrated
booklet, and assist you in
making all arrangements.
II
i m
m
Above—Mormon Temple#
Salt Lake City...a sightseeing
mecca on a fascinating route
across the United States.
Write to Dept. Al.
AMERICAW baiiwaas
TRAVEL and
IV! TO K MATIOV REREAIf
12 Bridge Street, Sydney Telephone 87981-*
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Front Page,” at Sydney St. James,
gives Chicago another horrible advt. It
opens in the pressroom of a gaol. The
reporters are playing poker and making
gutter-jokes about a murderer who is to be
hanged and can hear them. Only one, lat
O’Brien, has traces of decency and lie wants
tc get married and abandon journalism, lhe
murderer escapes and O’Brien has the luck
to catch him. A scoop of scoops! _He for-
gets about Alary Brian, who is waiting tear-
fully to he married, forgets his hatred of
the newspaper business, and only remem-
bers that he is a news-hound. He and the
murderer’s girl hide the terrified little de-
generate in a roll-top desk in the press-
room, which is fortunately empty, and he
telephones Adolphe Menjou, his editor. ( It
is hard to say whether the editor, the State
Governor or the sheriff is the most black-
guardly of the characters, but the editor is
easily the most dangerous. He has brains.
He wants to keep O’Brien, who is his star
reporter, and wring the last ounce out ot
the sensational situation created by the cap-
ture of the murderer. The methods by which
he achieves his ends provide the menage
of the play. As a study in cynical villainy
“The Front Page” is in a class by itself.
Only once are the ghoulish witticisms ot
the journalists silenced- —when the mur-
derer’s girl tells them the truth about them-
selves, and suicides from the window, She
has hardly hit the pavement before the
slightly thoughtful expressions have van-
ished from their faces, and they are braying
into their telephones again. The dialogue
is brilliant—it rattles with the speed and
remorselessness of the machine-gun fire tnat
follows the escape—and the finish is a
masterpiece of brutal realism. Menjou only
got his part by a fluke, but he is matchless
in it. No other actor could have combined
suavity and ruthlessness quite so effectively.
George E. Stone’s study of the murderer is
another gem and O’Brien is good in a
straight part. Lewis Millstone, the P ro "
ducer, hasn’t been lynched so far mut then
A 1 Capone’s city may take the picture as
a compliment.
* * *
Were it not that George Arliss plays the
title-role in “The Millionaire” (First
National), showing at Sydney State Theatre,
the film would be scarcely worth mentioning.
The plot, such as it is, has been adapted by
Booth Tarkington from a magazine story of
a well-worn type. Arliss portrays admirably
the part of James Alden, a canny car-manu-
facturer. A life-insurance agent ?ives him the
tip that retired business men are poor risks.
Unknown to his family and under an assumed
name, Alden purchases a half-share in a
small garage. He and his partner, Bill
Merrick, presently discover that the vendor has
diddled them. They avenge themselves by
moving to a site opposite the crooked one s
garage and capturing the bulk of Ins trade.
Alden’s daughter appears on the scene and she
and Merrick are soon exchanging soulful
glances. The situation becomes mildly com-
plicated owing to Merrick’s ignorance of his
partner’s identity, but the happy ending ns
never in doubt. Arliss’s screen wife in this
film is also his wife in real life.
* * *
“The Magnificent Lie” (Paramount),
Sydney Regent’s major attraction, provides
that very capable actress Ruth Cliatterton
with scope for her versatility. She is a
cabaret warbler not altogether happy in her
work. To the city where she entertains the
nightbirds comes a Parisian tragedienne and
her company, billed to appear in Camille.
In 1918 the Frenchwoman had soothed a fear-
ridden American soldier, now a surveyor,
and just gone blind, during the bombing
of a hospital. Members of the theatrical
co., for some not very palpable reason, induce
the cabaret singer to impersonate the traged-
ienne for the surveyor’s benefit. Next morn-
ing ho rings up the actress and meets with
a rebuff. He threatens suicide .and to
prevent the deed the cabaret singer is called
upon to delude him again. lhe actress
attempts to intervene but is thwarted. Event-
ually the surveyor is informed of the decep-
tion and he bitterly upbraids the singer, out
a motor accident restores his eyesight and
all is set for wedding-bells. Ralph Bellamy
and Stuart Erwin assist Miss Cliatterton to
make the strain on probability palatable.
“Honeymoon Lane” (Paramount), the
support, at Sydney Regent, is handicapped
by an attempt to mix devotional sentiments
with farce. The comedy centres in the
efforts of a reformed gambler, Tim Duggan
(played with much zest by Eddie Dowling),
to revive a mineral-water tavern conducted
by the devout Widow Murphy. Prior to
joining forces with the widder Tim had been
a cardsharper in an opposition joint. At the
outset the battle is a losing one for the
Murphy-Duggan combine, but an unexpected
ally turns up in the person of the touring
King of Bulgravia. His Majesty and his
retinue were to stay at the rival pub, but
a motor breakdown and the monarch s pas-
sion for cherry-pie result in his moving into
the Murphy establishment. His presence
there brings a swarm of sightseers, Tim gets
his girl, and the rival boniface gets it in
the neck. Eddie Dowling is ably assisted
in the lighter moments by supple-limbed Ray
Dooley - * * *
At Sydney Capitol, “Smart Money”
(Warner Bros.) is unusual. It features
Edward G. Robinson, a new character
actor with a cracked metallic voice and a-
face like Al Capone. He plays Nick
the Greek barber, a lucky gambler who
goes to the city to win higher stakes. Easy
prey alw r ays to peroxided females, he meets
Noel Francis; she introduces him to her
bloke, a cardsharper. Nick loses all. His
countrymen advance him money, and he has
another go. This time he wins heavily from
the other ruffian and opens a den of his own,
where he humiliates Noel by making her
work. The district attorney strives to
close the joint. He succeeds by forcing
Evalyn Knapp, Nick’s latest blonde, to plant
incriminating papers on him. She repents
too late. Nick’s friend (J. Cagney) bashes
her, and Nick kills him accidentally as the
police burst in. It ends with Noel, who
came to the railway station to jeer at Nick
[ (he goes jauntily off to serve a sentence
[ for manslaughter), in tears instead.


p
SB
mi
(955
&
lllllit.
-rtdi
THE
NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited.
THROUGH its 460 offices and branches in
Australia, its two London branches and its
world-wide representation by Banking Agents,
the National Bank of Australasia, Limited,
transacts all classes of banking business.
In addition, it offers special facilities through
its well equipped
Travel Service Departments in
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and London;
Public Safe Deposit Vaults in
Melbourne, Brisbane and Geelong;
Woman s Banking Departments in
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Capital Paid Up,
£5,000,000.
7 o’clock
patent NOS
2. 7 2.62 Q ~2 72 76 3
O
a
i*
\
\
DES
urn
m
0005
Of all
dealers
4-
BLADES
For Gillette Razors.
DOUBLE EDGED
British Made
FIVE
for
Ir 61 r 6
HERE’S THE BLADE YOU
WANT. Seven O’clock —five for
one shilling-and-sixpence ! Better,
sharper, longer lasting than many
that cost more ! If you use a two-
edge safety razor —treat yourself to
a packet of Seven O’clock blades.
Learn what comfort in shaving really
means !
5 h.p. for less than 2d. an hour”
and here’s proof.
#• » •
George Street, Windsor,
7th October, 1931.
The Manager,
Messrs. DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.,
Sydney.
Dear Sir,—l have a 5-h.p. Lister Diesel
Engine driving a 2-ton Refrigerator and
Sausage Machine. This engine was purchased
from you about nine months ago, and has been
very satisfactory.
This engine runs about 18 hours daily,
at a cost of 2d. per hour, even though I use
“Shell 25” fuel oil purchased at a cost of
9gd. per gallon.
I would' like to thank you for the service
and attention shown by your firm, which has
been excellent.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) MORGAN FORD.
COLD-STARTING
ON
CRUDE OIL
isren
British ,Bvj\\s
Paradise, S.A.,
12th January, 1931.
Messrs. HORWOOD, BAGSHAW, LTD.,
Mile End.
D.ar Sirs,—The 5-h.p. “LISTER
DIESEL”. Engine I purchased from you is
giving results that are entirely satisfactory.
My bore is over 300 ft. deep and I am
pumping 2500 gallons per hour from about
200 ft. deep and discharging all this water
straight through 13 sprinklers.
The fuel used is 2 gallons in 10 hours’
pumping.
The “LISTER DIESEL” is easy to start
cold, and runs without any attention all day.
A gallon of lubricating oil lasts about a month.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) M. E. SCHACHE.
DIESEL
Full Particulars will be supplied on request by State Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.,
Malloch House, Young Street,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
MITCHELL & CO. PTY., LTD.,
West Footscray.
Showroom: 596 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
HORWOOD, BAGSHAW, LTD.,
Victoria Street,
Mile End.
WEST AUSTRALIA
MALLOCH BROS.,
50-54 William Street,
Perth.


đ
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILE
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
w rite to:—
PRODUCERS £/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OJF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
sc. Agency Co., Ltd.
Plum Razor Guard
w**
i
m
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits -gin., fin. and |iu. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
&he PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/0 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and
guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
CASE AGAINST THE DRAFT.
“Bill O’C.”: “Trepex” (B. 28/10/’3l)
insists that the draft allowance to the buyer
of wool is neither an imposition nor an
anomaly, and rashly says why:—
(1) It is a concession to the buyer but
only a little one. (Ergo no one has any
right to complain of the footpad w r ho only
takes his change and overlooks the wallet.)
(2) The buyer accepts it as a “sort of dis-
count of weight.” (He also accepts it as
a very real accretion of quantity for which
he does not pay. Moreover, should the
wool acquire a further accretion of quan-
tity, as is often the case, before it reaches
the manufacturer, there is a further “dis-
count of weight” or something coming to
anyone but the grower.)
(3) It is an ancient custom. (Like pri-
mogeniture and poll taxes.)
(4) No one knows whether wool will gain
or lose in weight after being shorn. (Ergo
it must always bq presumed to lose.)
(5) The buyer pays cash. (And if he
didn’t he would have to pay more, as upon
the sale of all other commodities.)
(6) It covers possible mistakes in the
weighing. (This “covers” is charmingly
naive; it suggests the umbrella which might
cover two people if one were not com-
pelled to buy it in order that the other
might use it solely. Moreover, weighing
errors are as likely to tell in favor of buyer
as seller, and such care is taken that only
“sworn Weighers” are employed.)
(7) If the buyer is deprived of this exac-
tion “he is sure to take it out in another
way,” which “might easily be more costly to
the grower.”
Arguments 1 to 6 are special pleading
in the infant class. No. 7 is a threat of a
very sinister kind, and worth inquiry into
by those who are supposed to protect the
sellers’ interests.
The growers have a far more legitimate
claim to an addition to their returns, instead
of a deduction, to cover cost of woolpacks,
the weight of which is carefully deducted by
the brokers; properly so, but the pack goes
free to the buyer and goes into use again
in some form without any semblance of
allowance to the seller. Whatever their
value, second-hand packs are always for sale
somewhere. All the seller gets is abuse from
the manufacturers for putting up his wool
in jute packs; but when, as has been tried,
he puts them up in woollen, cotton or paper
wrappings, he gets nothing for his trouble,
but only one more in the neck to go on
with.
AUTUMN LAMBS.
“Golightly”; A neighbor of mine swears
that it pays better to have two good autumn
than four spring lambs when depending upon
returns from fat suckers. Undoubtedly this
holds in many rich fattening districts of
N. S. Wales where in springtime young lambs
suffer from grass-seed and sheep-fly. British
breeds are notably sluggish in hot months;
rams and ewes of these breeds often refuse
to mate until autumn. Experience has
taught me that young Dorset rams will mate
at any time. This is true of the merino ewe
; a combination that may surmount our
climatic difficulties in relation to export
lambs.
On November 1 last year I joined 3 p.c.
of year-old Dorset rams with merino
ewes and marked 87 p.c. in May. Last Janu-
ary a neighbor joined two five-month
Dorset ram lambs with comeback ewes,
placing in the same paddock five Gorriedale
four-year rams. The drop contained more
Dorset cross than Corriedale.
Pure Dorset rams are difficult to obtain.
Farmers are rushing anything called Dorset,
buying half-breeds as pure. They will be
disappointed and will give the breed a bad
name. The selling of impure rams should be
prohibited by law. All stud flocks in N.S.W.
should be permitted to come under the pro-
tection of the Department of Agriculture,
and sale certificates should, after inspection,
be issued by departmental officers each year.
Stud-farmers are handicapped in the pro-
duction of high-class pedigree stock from
costly and valuable animals when breeders
of mongrels swamp their market.
lime in the lick.
“Ph.O.”: “B. Sure” (B. 30/9/’3l). in
recommending the use of finely-ground
oyster-shell lime and fossilised limestone for
sheep licks, has opened up an important
question. I have for years advocated the
use of shell lime in licks and rations because
of the small iodine and phosphorus content
and because it is the best form of lime, being
pure and quickly assimilated. Wo have
unlimited quantities of a pure lime bearing
phosphorus and iodine in our Great Bar-
rier Reef. Oyster-shell would soon run out
if used universally.
The chief value of a pure lime is that it
helps the blood streams of animal and
human being, and therefore means better
health. It is necessary for bone structure,
associated with phosphorus and other
minerals. The bones of the animal are simply
a storehouse for those elements which are
required for building up the normal
cells in the tissues of the body. Bones,
when dried, sterilised and finely powdered,
contain about 50 per cent, phosphate of
lime and 5 per cent, lime carbonate. During
pregnancy and suckling periods this store-
house or bank is drawn on to nourish the
young animal before birth and to supply the
milk during suckling. The bank has to
be kept solvent by the addition of rich feed
containing phosphate of lime, such as clover
and lucerne, and of bonemeal and salt to a
lick or ration during the pregnant and suck-
ling periods.
Ordinary grazing is not sufficient. Manu-
factured licks and general formulae examined
by me have too high a percentage of bone-
meal, Nauru phosphate or precipitated phos-
phate. A large percentage is passed out
in the excreta, and it is therefore not econo-
mical. Ten per cent, of bonemeal is ample
in a salt lick for grazing animals, and 20
per cent, for breeding animals and growing
lambs. Excess of phosphate simply means
that internal parasites are getting the food
they want in the stomach and intestines. The
same applies to excess nitrogen by sudden
feeding of grazing animals with green lucerne
and clovers; the fermentative bacteria cause
bloat and indigestion. The administration
of feeds and licks comes down to a ques-
tion of balance of organic and inorganic
elements. Excess or unbalance is waste, and
therefore not economical. It adds to the
cost of growing mutton and wool, outside
of causing sickness and feeding disease
germs.
The iodine question is not understood.
Absence of goitre does not mean that the
storehouse of iodine, the thyroid gland, has
enough iodine for health purposes generally.
lodine helps assimilation of foods and saves
10 per cent, cost in concentrates. It helps
digestion and breathing and helps resistance
to disease and hostile bacteria. As “B. Sure”
suggests, it is a cure for contagions abortion
—or, rather, a preventive in conjunction
with cleanliness and antiseptic precaution,
douching and the like. For this trouble
iodide of potash must be administered in a
lick or ration the whole time during preg-
nancy. A pregnant ewe can be given 4
to 1 grain of iodide of potash or 5 drops
of tincture of iodine daily; a cow 2 grains
daily. Contagious abortion has been wiped
out in America and Europe by this method.
The expense of iodide of potash or iodine
is not great when we consider the minute
doses required, and the medicinal, disease-
resisting power of this most valuable of
elements.
Iron is another element which has much
to do with the blood streams, in which it
lives. Its function is to carry oxygen
through the body; it is specially efficacious
in conjunction with manganese. Therefore
every lick and ration should have a small
proportion of iron and manganese sulphates;
the citrates of iron and manganese are
better, but they are not economic.
It is often asked what is a basic lick?
It is a lick which contains those elements
which are medicinal in their effect, resistant
to disease and of help to nutrition. In
the absence of proper feed containing nutri-
tive elements, such as phosphate of lime
and lime potash, these compounds are to be
added in balanced proportion. If the stock-
owner cannot supply adequate feeds at stated
times he must at least employ a basic lick
to get the best out of what feeds he has,
and to avoid malnutrition and disease; for
example, loz. of iodide of potash, 4oz. each
of sulphate of iron and manganese, 21b. of
Epsom salts, 101 b. of finely-powdered and
sterilised bonemeal and 881 b. of salt. A
hundredweight of this would supply 300
sheep monthly; at a comparatively small
cost per head it would keep them in health
and wool-bearing capacity. This lick, of
course, should never be given to stud stock,
pregnant animals or lambs.
PREPARING FOR THE SHOW.
“6Q J”: Many a good beast misses the
final points or fails to catch the judge’s
eye because it hasn’t been properly prepared.
A dairy cow should have just enough con-
dition to give her skin that silky healthy
texture. A tough hide is a common fault;
it can be brought about by overfeeding on
concentrates in the early stages of prepara-
tion and then reduction of feed to take off fat.
Insufficient feed and care are other causes.
Horns and hoofs should be cleaned, and
then polished with a soft cloth and glycerine.
If hoofs are to be trimmed, they should be
done timely, so that there will be no risk
of the beast being tender-footed when, shown.
Easy gait is important, as is the natural
stand of the beast. Cow or bull should be
trained to lead and stand, and should be
thoroughly disciplined. Where possible, let
the beasts get used to traffic, and lead them
in among it, so that they will not be strange
in the ring.
Always keep your beast between yourself
and the judge. The animal is on show; not
you.
Over-feeding of bulls and .calves, particu-
larly on sloppy feeds, silage or roots, is
likely to cause the paunch to drop. The
amount of feed to give just before showing-
can only be gauged by experience, but it is
a good plan to let the animal go without a
drink for a few hours before the judging
and give him one just before going into the
ring—a drink sufficient to fill him out natur-
ally. When on parade, a beast should never
be allowed to stand or walk badly. Keep
him or her under control all the time.
Pigs should also, for weeks before the
show, be. taught to drive and turn, and they
should be exercised every day no matter
what class they may be entered for. If a
boar shows signs of going off his feed, herd
him with a younger boar; he will eat more
just to keep the smaller pig out. A pig
washed before judging should be rubbed with
a little paraffin oil. In the case of black
pigs a little lamp-black may be added; in
the white class, a little talcum powder. Ex-
cessive layers of fat are a disadvantage to
any class.
Pigs should not be kept continuously on
bricks or concrete before a show, but should
be allowed to roam in the pasture; otherwise
they will be proppy in their gait, and will
not show their contour off to advantage.
WHEAT ON SALTY LAND.
“Wodgil”: A dispute between the scien-
tist and the settler is raging in Westralia.
While the Development and Migration Com-
mission was considering schemes for land
settlement under the £34,000,000 agreement
the Westralian Government contrived to
interest it in a project for the establishment
of 3500 new wheat-and-sheep farms, about
3000 of them on a belt of 7,000,000 acres
south of the main goldfields railway and east
of the railway from Perth to Albany. It is
a triangular-shaped tract resting upon
Southern Cross in the north, Lake King in
the south-west and Salmon Gums in the
south-east. The complete scheme involved
650 miles of railway, 6000 miles of road and
an estimated expenditure of £4,225,000. The
Commission was so impressed that it went in
for a preliminary examination; then, the
British and Commonwealth Governments
helping, it had a grant of £150,000 made
for “further exploratory work.”
Twelve survey parties were sent out to
classify the land. Road and railway sur-
veyors also got busy. The Government im-
proved the shining hour by throwing open
some of the classified areas to settlers, whom
the Agricultural Bank helped to the extent
of £lOO,OOO. Then came two severe blows :
the slump in the price of wheat and a
condemnation by Dr. Teakle,. the soil chemist,
of part of the country taken up. He pro-
nounced the land he had tested too salty for
wheat-growing.
Dr. Teakle was called in to assist in the
“further exploratory work” for which
£150,000 was furnished. He made what is
described by ,T. A. Prescott, Professor of
Agricultural Chemistry in the Adelaide Uni.,
as “the most extensive systematic study of
soil distribution and occurrence” on record
in Australia. He took 650 samples of
“forest” soils between Southern Cross and
Salmon Gums. In four cases the salt con-
tent in the top 24 inches of soil was 0.9 p.c. to,
1.1 p.c.; in 19 cases, 0.7 p.c. to' 0.9 p.c.
in 70, 0.5 p.c. to 0.7 p.c.; in 166, 0.3 p.c.
to 0.5 p.c.; in 147, 0.2 p.c. to 0.3 p.c.;
in the rest, nil to 0.2 p.c. In a com-
parison quoted by Prof. Prescott in a pamph-
let published by the Council for Industrial
and Scientific Research (he is chief of the
Soil Division), it is stated that of 37 virgin
soils from near the Murrumbidgee Irriga-
tion Areas, 29 contained less than 0.1 per
cent., seven between 0.1 and 0.2 per cent.,
and one 0.23 per cent, of total salts to a
depth of 24 inches.
The Agricultural Bank announced that it
would lend no more to farmers in the con-
demned districts, especially as there was no
chance of getting a railway for many years.
“But come along and have a look at our
dams,” the settlers replied. “They’re down
15 feet and no sign of salt. Have a look
at our crops. They’ll go five bags, many of
them, and eight bags some—you won’t see
a better lot in older districts where there
is no salt. And what about Lake Grace?
Plenty of salt there, you know!” They got
farmers from the Lake Grace. district,
acknowledged to be one of the best in West-
ralia, to accompany them on a deputation of
protest to Perth. One said: “I’ve been
a Lake Grace cocky for 23 years, and I
grow crops averaging 18 bushels on land
every bit as salty as the Lake King country
which Dr. Teakle condemned.”
So the argument is proceeding briskly, the
scientists maintaining that salty land won’t
.grow wheat —at least, for any length of
time—the settlers that it will and is doing
it. Certainly precious little wheat would
have been produced in Westralia, which led
all the other States for two seasons and pro-
duced 53 million bushels last year, if country
intersected by salt lakes had been ruled out
from the start.
ROTATIONAL GRAZING.
“Thorley”: An interesting example of rota-
tional grazing is to be seen on the property
of J. E. Handbury and Son at Toora (Vic.).
The .soil is a dark alluvial, the rainfall
about 40 inches, the area 48 acres. Formerly
11 acres were cultivated for fodder crops,
and the farm carried 18 cows and no young
stock. The farm is now subdivided into 20
paddocks, 18 averaging two acres. The sub-
division fencing is three posts to 'the chain
(no droppers), with two barb wires. In each
paddock shelter is given by willows, cypresses
or mahogany gums.
The property was sown down with peren-
nial rye, cocksfoot, white clover, cowgrass
and lucerne; 1861 b. super, per acre is used
annually. It now carries 30 milch cows, be-
sides bulls and young stock, making a total
of 65 head, and two horses. From Sept. 1
to about June the cattle are moved regularly
from paddock to paddock, spending two days
in each ; the milkers average 15 per acre. In
the spring some paddocks are saved up for
meadow hay. The pastures get a heavy har-
rowing twice a year. A twelvemonth’s butter
to the end of June, 1931, realised £5BB
6s. sd.—£l2 Is. per acre for the area used.
CACTOBLASTIS IN N. S. WALES.
“Beady”: In dealing with prickly-pear I
am getting good results from Cactoblastis.
The eggs are given free of cost by the
State Entomologist, Department of Agricul-
ture. I distribute them among the pear
by smearing a sheet of newspaper with a
flour paste, and sprinkling the egg-sticks
over the surface, pressing them lightly down
with a finger. Let the paste dry, cut the
sheet of paper into 2in. squares and pin
one paper on a pear leaf (young growth
for preference) so that the eggs will be face
downwards on the leaf, sheltered from sun
and wind. One or two papers are sufficient
on each clump. A one-ounce packet of 240
pins roughly pins out about 50,000 eggs.
The hatched caterpillars do the rest. Eggs
are available in March and October.
APPLES AND ORANGES.
“Bar K.” : The apple is in danger of losing
its position as the king of fruits, not through
any lack of popularity with consumers, but
because citrus-growers are better organised
in many countries. The advertising cam-
paigns of the California citrus-growers, have
made oranges appear indispensable, and this
propaganda has been backed up by honesty
and concentration on the job of supplying
the public with just what it requires. “Sun-
kist” oranges are known all over the world,
and are as near perfection as can be
attained; but the growers are not sitting
back on their reputation. If their product
can be improved, or produced more economi-
cally, they may be relied on to effect those
improvements. All this has been brought
about by co-operative effort.
Canada is out to secure an equally sound
market for its apples, but has yet. 1 a long
way to go to. equal the organisation of the
Californian citrus-growers. Here in Aus-
tralia we are still further, behind the times,
although there is evidence everywhere of
effort at improvement.
First and foremost, we must concentrate
on a few main varieties, profitable •as
regards cropping and attractive to the con-
sumer as regards, appearance, flavor and
keeping. Then quality must be improved,
and the crop standardised and sold under
definite brands. All this can only be achieved
by united effort on the part of'the growers,
with attention to all details of selecting,
planting, pruning, spraying, cultivation, fer-
tilising. and last, but not least, handling and
marketing the crop.
Citrus-packing in many parts of N.S.W.
is now very efficiently carried out. and if
apples are to lead oranges they must be
harvested with just as much attention to
detail.
Californian citrus-growers have concen-
trated on navel oranges, and have aimed at
producing in this variety everything that
the consumer requires. The same applies
to grape-fruit. In Australia we have far
(Continued on page 26.)


jdjSSSS^
Double-soled and
leather-lined
Here’s the toughest Australian
leather, doubled to make a sole
that cannot be beaten for hard
wear. The Abbey Cossack out-
lasts any ordinary boot. Its
upper is snug and comfortable,
lined throughout with soft
leather. Carefully finished,
easy-fitting and flexible, it i 3
built for the roughest service in
all weathers.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- and 407-
Black Box Calf 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 255
y
II
* r I
Monarch
Cigars.
1 Craig sAitken
k Wholesale
| Disfributors
F Sijdney N.5.W.
Legal Notice.
’J’O ALBERT CHARLES WOOLCOCK formerly of
Perth ir. the State of Western Australia; but
now of address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
by this Honorable Court citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of VIOLET WOOLCOCK of
5 Scott Street Leederville in the said State praying
for dissolution of marriage.
IN DEFAULT of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence in respect thereto.
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid you are within forty-five (45) days
after the date of this Publication to attend in
person or by your Proctor Solicitor or Attorney at
the Central Office of our said Court at Perth and
there to enter an appearance in a book provided for
that purpose without which you will not be allowed
to address the Court either in person or by' Counsel
at any stage of the proceedings in the cause.
Dated at Perth this sth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-one and in the
twentv-second year of our Reign.
• T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
Joseph, Muir & Williams, of Weld Chambers. St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Brisbane (Courier*
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
C ontemporary,
Fou can get more of these interest -
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
Che Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 FITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Carbon/
A costly nuisance which is paid for in wasted petrol.
Have you ever considered how much more mileage you
get from a gallon of petrol when your engine is free
from carbon.
(jirbqx^^g?
... i. Carbo-Solve will positively remove carbon deposits.
10,000,000 of resources back Alemite Corporation’s
positive guarantee that Carbo-Solve will free your engine
from carbon. Full particulars sent on request.
ALEMITE CORPORATION - Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from. MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydnej
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. MACHIN &CO (Pty), Ltd. . . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
K-AUST-6
too many varieties, many of which are
grown with little thought for the consumers’
demands.
IMPROVING THE EGG MARKET.
“Jack Point”: Consumption of eggs in
Australia is well under 100 per head per
year. In Britain it is about twice as much ;
in the U.S.A. it is about 250; in Canada
every man, woman and child eats in some
form or other an egg a day. Eggs are
nourishing, easily digested, convenient and
generally cheap in comparison with other
foods of inferior nutritive value. The Aus-
tralian realises these things in a vague
way, but is inclined to think that all eggs
are much the same. It is the poultry-
farmers’ job to convince him that the flavor,
appearance and feeding value of eggs pro-
duced under the ideal conditions of a modern
poultry plant are vastly superior to those of
eggs laid by hens kept “anyhow” and gathered
at irregular intervals. It isn’t merely a
matter of coining a slogan like “Eat More
Eggs,” but rather of “Eat More Quality
Eggs.”
I am a Queenslander. Although we have
had for many years a compulsory egg pool,
which makes off with 74 per cent, of sup-
pliers’ gross proceeds, I don’t know of a
single retail shop in Brisbane where you
can buy a dozen eggs that bear the guaran-
tee of the Egg Board as being fresh and
produced under ideal conditions. There is
still quite a good demand for liigh-class
products, but producers and those supposed
to watch their interests are too prone to
bewail the fact of low prices instead of
looking for ways to improve their marketing.
Graded eggs packed in neat cartons, with
printed recipes suggesting new ways of serv-
ing the contents, would find a ready sale at
a_ decent price. Short lectures might be
given in schools regarding the virtues of
Sen-fruit, and eggs made available for
lunches at a cheap rate.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Hoie can I scour low-grade wool, such as
stained and locks? I will have to * do it
with potstick and crate. What is the right
temperature for the soak; what is used
besides soap, and the quantities per gallon
of water? —6606.
The soak should be heated to about I3odeg.
Fah. In making up the scour about 141 b.
of soap and 41b. of washing soda should
be added to every 20 gallons of water. In
view of the upward tendency of values it
might be better to hold this class of wool
until prices reach such a level as will make
it practicable to sell profitably 7 in the greasy
state.
What are the wages and conditions of em-
ployment of shearers in Ta-s.f- —6723.
Shearers receive 325. 6d. per hundred. A
charge of not more than 30s. per week may
be made if keep is provided by the employer.
What are the award rates in Queensland
for ringharking and suckcring if carried out
by casuals? Must preference he given to
unionists ? —6538.
No award operates. It is a matter for
arrangement between the employer and em-
ployee. Two pounds per week, plus found,
is paid generally.
How to dry and pack figs for home use?
—6661.
Select ripe, sound figs and dip for a few
seconds in a boiling solution of 4oz. caustic-
soda and 4 gallons water, using a wire
basket or perforated tin for the purpose.
Lay out on wooden trays or tables to dry,
and when hard and quite dry dip them for
10 seconds in a boiling solution of 3oz.
roeksalt and 1 gallon water. This kills all
insects and counteracts excessive sweetness.
Place in heaps to dry again, watch them
and turn carefully to ensure even drying.
Pack in waxed paper in small tins or boxes,
and cover tightly. Store in a cool, dry
place.
(1) Brief explanation of process for ex-
tracting gas direct from wood? (2) Can
this gas he used in an ordinary car engine
used as a stationary power plant? (3) Can
the gas he stored in a container? (4) What
is the cost of such a plant? —63l2.
(1) The burning of wood or charcoal in
an enclosed container, admitting only suffi-
cient air for combustion, results in the
production of various gases, of which carbon
monoxide and hydrogen are combustible and
carbon dioxide and nitrogen have no burn-
ing properties. Iu some types of plant the
introduction of steam into the producer and
its passage through the fire liberates addi-
tional hydrogen and enriches the producer
gas. The gas, after passing through clean-
ing apparatus, is mixed with air to convert
it into an explosive mixture and is
then admitted to the cylinders of the engine.
(2) Yes, but as producer-gas has a lower
calorific value than petrol, there would be
considerable loss of power. This loss can
be partially overcome by increasing the com-
pression ratio of the engine by a new
cylinder-head and new pistons, or adding a
suitable thickness of plate to the top of
the existing pistons. By this means, with a
compression ratio of about 7 to 1. power
obtained from producer-gas will be approxi-
mately 75 per cent, to 80 per cent, of that
obtained from petrol. (3) Yes, but such
a method of use would entail considerable
unnecessary expense. (4) Plants suitable
for internal-combustion motors, developing
up to about 30 b.-b.p„ are now manufactured
in Australia and have been quoted at from
£6O to £3OO ex-factory, including equipment
necessary to modify the engine to run on
producer-gas.
How to preserve asparagus? —6626.
Choose thick, quickly-grown asparagus,
cut squarely at the foot of the stalk, and
wash well in salted water. Pack into short
wide jars of the “Queen” variety, with the
tips upwards. Make up a solution of salted
water to cooking strength, and while it is still
hot but not boiling fill the jar? t 0 cover the
asparagus. Place new rubbers in position,
and set the lids in place, but do not secure
them tightly, as they must be loose enough t 0
allow steam to escape. Stand the jars in
a boiler of cool water, with straw or paper
on the bottom and between to prevent knock-
ing and cracking. Place over a good fire,
bring to the boil and cook till the asparagus
is tender; test it with a long knitting-
needle. Lift out the jars, fasten the lids
tightly and stand upside down for 24 hours:
if the tips are tender, lay the jars on their
sides. If there is no leakage from the lids,
upend them and store in a cool, dark place.
If there is any leakage, the boiling must be
repeated till boiling point is reached; then
fasten the jars and tost again. If the
asparagus is wanted in a hard, uncooked
condition, it may be sealed at boiling point
without further processing and cooked when
opened. Complete sterilisation is what is
aimed at. A pinch of baking-soda to the
. salted water improves the color.
How is water glass used to cure porosity
in a cement tank? —osl7.
A solution consisting of lib. water-glass
to lgal. of water is first made up. The sur-
face of the concrete to be sealed is perfectly
dried and then coated with this solution as
a paint and the surface again allowed to
dry. The painting process is repeated as
often as necessary, the pi’eceding coat being
allowed to thoroughly dry before the next
coat is applied.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Liss”; In districts which lend them-
selves to pasture improvement, and where a
few hundred acres of good grazing lucerne
can be grown, an extended lambing pays
when fat lambs are the objective. Breed-
ing ewes should be classed into two lots,
and one of the mobs mated a couple
of months later than the other. The dry
ewes would be taken from both mobs, and
mated a month or so after the second lot
of drys had been added to the first. Mark
ewes that miss at this mating; they
should be sold out of the flock. The lucerne
will ensure development of the lambs
coming on in the .summer, and risk of heavy
loss owing to adverse seasonal conditions
will be minimised by having the lambs in
three mobs.
“W.D.Mc.” : Tell “Liss” and “Beady” to
use equal parts of Stockholm tar and whale
oil thinned down with kerosene the next time
they mark lambs. Let them make a small
wool mop and when marking put a dab on
the scrotum and also on the docked tail,
and they will have no bother with fly—l
marked a lot of late lambs when blowflies
were about in thousands, and did not have
a single strike. There is no occasion for
bags if this precaution is taken ; bagging is a
tedious process at the best. All ewes should
be carefully crutched before lambing, and I
can fully endorse using an arsenic powder
dip to jet or swab them.
“Bilbo” : When you use a dead sheep for
fly bait, don’t run the risk of losing your
best dog. Cut a 40-gallon petrol-drum in
halves and place the carcase in each half,
stretching wire-netting over the top. Pour
in the arsenic till it comes about half-way
up on the carcase and keep the traps in
well-shaded spots. By adding a little more
arsenic as required this bait will remain
attractive for months.
“The Breaker” : Unshod horses often suffer
from a quartered hoof. Here’s a method
I’ve used ; it is effective and not as barbarous
as it seems. Get a piece of strong tie-wire,
about eight feet in lengthy and make a noose
at one end. Cut a small nick as far up
the quartered portion as possible, run the
noose end of the wire up along the quarter
and pull tight. To the other end of the wire
attach a stick, and pull. The prad Avill
give a few kicks, but off will fly the quarter,
and in a week he will be well enough to
work.
“Box 53”: Beware of the cow that comes
in with a blind quarter; it may be due to
accident or to a contagious form of mam-
mitis. Make it a rule to milk the three-
teater last always.
“Agrarian”; The stay of the gate should
not be placed, as “Mulyan” (B. 2S/10/’3l)
advises, from the bottom of the back-piece
to the top of the head-piece, as this tends
to push the pieces apart. Clamp or bolt
the stay into the top of the back-piece and
into the foot of the head-piece; then the
weight of the gate helps to keep the lot
together firmly, which is all to the good if
an old cart-axle is used for a pivot. The
back-piece can be fitted between the axle-
.dray flanges and bolted to the iron. If
then correctly hung the gate will not sag.
“Diinon”: Long thin bottles filled with
sand make good sash-weights, provided a lath
is placed between the two so that they won’t
bump together and break. A better substi-
tute is a piece of water-pipe, or a post of
an old bedstead, about a foot long, filled
with sand and plugged.
“Gardener”: Wilt ravaged my tomato
plots for three years, despite sprays. Last
year I limed and sulphured very heavily
and sowed all my seed in soil baked in the
oven. Not a plant went down, while on the
same ground the year before I lost half the
crop. You can’t beat sterilised soil, burnt
or baked, for any seed beds.
“Gradex”: The tiny bean fly will soon be
reappearing. It lays its eggs in the leaves
of the plants; the grub emerges a couple of
weeks later, about a tenth of an inch long,
black and lustrous. The flies prefer young
crops; thus the usual method of combating
the pest is to plant small patches of fresh
crops to attract them ; these must be pulled
out about every 30 days and burnt. And
burn the old bean tops, as the larvm will
reappear in them next season.
“L’Fou” : One Vic. poultry-farmer special-
ises in crossbred fowls; not mongrels but
a first cross between different breeds. He
claims special vigor aiid larger size for this
first cross, but the greatest advantage is
ability to distinguish between the sexes from
the first day. His crosses are usually Barred
Rocks x Rhode Islands or Game x Orpingtons;
these give pullets and cockerels differently
feathered from the first. Being able to guar-
antee 90 per cent, pullets or cockerels as
wished he is able to dispose of as many day-
old chicks as he can supply.
“Mulgo”; “Bilbo” states that wooden
drains are unsuitable for soapy or slop
water; they smell (B. 28/10/’3l). An
elbow at the sink prevents smells arising;
all drains smell without it. In any case, if
the wood is tarred when put down it doesn’t
smell any more than ordinary pipes. Years
ago we used box drains in towns, and they
are still used in many places out back.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
\v anted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
N.S.W. ship- and engine-smith (43), married,
used to oxy-aeetyiene, metalliferous and coalmining
exp., wants job, anywhere. Refs. —6699.
Station gardener, married, wants work. Vic. pref.
—0679.
Young city man wants work on station or farm,
preferably South Coast or Riverina, for health
reasons. —6713.
Young Uni. graduate (Vic.) wants job on station
or farm, outside work, tutor, records, etc. —-6718.
Digger (N.S.W.) with family, unemployed IS
months, unable to meet rent, wants tent at reason-
able price.—6657.
Incapacitated (T.B.) returned soldier (N.S.W.),
advised to live outdoors, requires tent. Must be
cheap.—6696.
To buy, second-hand, any parts for Super Six
Battery set and Superhet.—6665.
To buy second-hand microscope.—6715.
To buy stereoscopic quarter-plate camera.—6704.
To buy “The World As Will and Idea” and
“Studies in Pessimism” (Schopenhauer), also “The
Antheap” (Knoblock), “Go, Marry” (Brenden
Williams), “Charlotte Row” (IT. E. Bates) and
“No Bed of Roses” (W. O. London). —6701.
To buy “The Lifeboat and Other Poems,” by
G. R. Sims—6687.
Books by Drs. Saleeby, ltollier, Leonard Hill and
Parmelee on sunshine and health, heliotherapy, etc.
—6655.
Information Sought.
What Customs duties are levied on effects
of persons returning to Australia after some
years’ residence abroad? —6581.
There is no duty on personal effects or
furniture and household goods which have
been in actual use by passengers for at least
one year, not exceeding £100 in value for
each adult. Two children may be reckoned
as one adult.
Names of biographies of prominent Aus-
tralians which I could give a youth to read?
Prices and where obtainable? —6471.
“Great Australians,” by P. It. Cole, Is.
lid., posted; “Builders and Pioneers of Aus-
tralia,” by A. Jose, 10s. 5d., posted;
Dymocks, Sydney.
Names of a few flowering shrubs, flower-
ing trees and ornamental trees, preferably
evergreen, which icould be likely to grow in
Stockton, Newcastle? The natural soil is
entirely sand. Time for planting? —6604.
Shrubs: Callistemon lanceolata, Hibiscus
(assorted), Spartium junceum, Tamarix
plumosa, Nerium oleander, Ligustrum
aureum, Cassia candolleaua, Buddleia veit-
chii, Lonicera fragrantissima, Veronica
gracilis, Escallonia macrantba, Coprosma
variegata. Flowering trees: Bauhinia pur-
purea, Erythrina iridica, Lagunaria pater-
soni, Acacia saligna. Ornamental trees:
Tristania conferta, Ficus rubiginosa, Ficus
liillii, Araucaria excelsa. Plant between
May and September.
(1) What are the hardiest and prettiest
finches? (2) Proper food? (3) Would a
privet hedge growing in the cage hurt the
birds if they ate the leaves? (4) Where
are birds obtainable? —6625.
(1) The Australian, African and Chinese
varieties. (2) Australian finches live on
mixed canary seed and Hungarian millet.
African and Chinese finches take the canary
seed chiefly, but will also eat the millet. It
is usual for birdshops to give advice in
this connection when the birds are pur-
chased. (3) No. But the hedge wouldn’t
live long. (4) Try A. L. Turner, 476
Pitt-street, Sydney.
If an association owning a hall refuses to
pay the annual license fee to the Austral-
asian Performing Rights Association, is it
liable to penalty in the event of infringe-
ment of copyright at an entertainment in
that hall? —6603.
Very likely. Still, no general rule can be
laid down, each case depending on its par-
ticular facts.
(1) Is there an open season at present
m Q’land for ’possum hunting? If not, when
is the next open season likely to be? (2)
Must trappers be licensed and how are
licenses secured? (3) In what districts are
’possums most numerous? (4) Average
value of skins? —6458.
(1) The open season closed in September.
It is extremely improbable that the season
will be opened for at least two years. (2)
Permits to operate in specific areas are
issued by officers appointed for that purpose.
(3) Springsure and Mackay districts. (4)
Last season’s average was about 18s. 6d.
per dozen.
Is an undischarged bankrupt , otherwise
eligible, allowed to contest a N.S.W. muni-
cipal council election? —6480.
Yes. The Local Government Act provides
that if any holder of a civic office becomes
bankrupt, or if he compounds with his
creditors, he thereby ceases to hold office,
but is eligible for re-election if not otherwise
disqualified. An undischarged bankrupt, if
otherwise qualified, is not debarred by the
Act from election to civic office.
I reduced the rent of my cottage in Novem-
ber, 1930, from 15s. per week to 13s. 6 d.
Must I, under the N.S.W. Rents Reduction
Act , reduce it again? —6659.
Yes. To comply with the provisions of
the Act, the rent at 15s. should be reduced
to 11s. 74d.
(1). When was the first telephone con-
versation held in Australia and who were
the speakers? (2) When was the first
telephone service established? —647S.
(1) In January, 1878. less than two years
alter the telephone bad been invented bv
Alexander Graham Bell. The identity of
the speakers is unknown, but they conversed
at trials of locally-made telephones over the
telegraph line between Semaphore, Adelaide
and Kapunda. The following month con-
versations were carried on between Mel-
bourne and Ballarat. (2) In 1880, in Wills-
street, Melbourne. The exchange was owned
and controlled by a private co.
(1) Where could a youth learn theatrical
scene-painting in Melbourne? (2) Would
he have to become apprenticed and under
what conditions? (3) Any books on the
subject? —6470.
(1) With any recognised scenic artist
(2) Yes. The premium for a three-year
apprenticeship is from £150 to £250. Before
starting in the theatres he should do at
least three years in an art school and two
years at architecture and perspective. (3)
Know of none worth consulting.
(1) Necessary treatment in order to pro-
long the life of motor-car tyres? (2) Is
there any substance which can be painted
on tyres in order to give them a longer life?
—6406.
(1) Most important thing is to main-
tain correct air-pressure. Check pressures
at least once a week. (2) Use black tyre
paint regularly, thus minimising the pos-
sibility of the rubber perishing or cracking
when exposed to the sun.
Recipe for metal polish? —6651.
Take 2 teacups turpentine, 2 of methy-
lated spirit, 14 of olive oil, 1 of vinegar,
1 of powdered whiting and 4 of ammonia.
Mix well, and keep in a corked bottle. Shake
well before using. Any measure may be
used in the above pi’oportions.
(1) What constitutes a city in Vic.?
(2) Names of Vic. cities? —6464.
(1) An annual rate revenue of £20,000
or over. (2) The 24 Greater Melbourne
municipalities, Ballarat, Bendigo, Chelsea,
Geelong, Geelong W., Mordialloc and Warr-
nambool.
How does a motorist visiting Vic. from
N.S.W. for three months secure temporary
registration ? —650S.
The driver of the car should call at the
first police station when crossing the border
to obtain a visitor’s permit. He will be re-
quired to produce the registration certificate
for the car and his driver’s license.
If a N.S.W. resident has capital at fixed
deposit in a Melbourne bank, the interest
accumulating with deposit, can the N.S.W.
Income Tax (Jommisisoner exact State income
tax and unemployment tax, notwithstanding
the fact that none of the income is coming
into N.S.W.? —6513.
Unemployment relief tax, but not State
income tax, is payable. That, at least, is the
official claim, but if the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment were alive to' the rights of citizens
who are not Government employees (-special
provision limiting State taxation has been
made for Government employees and poli-
ticians), it would not be tolerated.
Is it legal for a minor to vote at a sports
club committee meeting? —6638.
Yes, if fully qualified in other respects, but
if any pecuniary responsibility is incurred
it cannot be recovered during minority and
would be subject to his ratification on attain-
ing majority.
(1) What subjects should be studied at
Melbourne Uni. in qualifying for an adminis-
trative position in the Colonial Office? (2)
In obtaining the leaving certificate, what
subjects are most helpful? —6663.
(1) Any degree will qualify. No course
is prescribed. A caixdidate must have
obtained a graduateship in any of the sub-
jects he chooses. Certain personal qualities
are considered. (2) No subject more than
another.
(1) Do any of the Australian rubber com-
panies train youths to become rubber
chemists? (2) IIow are they appointed?
(3) Any literature which would be helpful?
—6753.
(1) Yes. (2) Application is made by
youths who have received some training
in industrial chemistry and who intend to
take up chemistry as a profession. The suc-
cessful applicant is required to work as a
cadet until he can be given a position in the
laboratory. He is then assisted to carry on
his training in chemistry by attendance at
the Technical College. (3) “The Industrial
Chemist” (English magazine), “Industrial
and Engineering Chemistry” (American
magazine), “Crude Rubber and Compound-
ing Ingredients,” by Pearson; and “Manu-
facture of Rubber Goods,” by Adolf Heil and
Dr. W. Esch.
What is the correct name of the large
grey spider we have in Queensland, tarantula
or triantelope? —6414.
Tarantula. “Triantelope” applied popu-
larly in Australia to all large spiders, is a
corruption of tarantula. -
How can I get rid of or locate the breed-
ing-place of tarantulas which invade my
house every day? —6558.
There is no method by which they can be
destroyed in numbers. In their natural state
they live under the bark of trees.
(1) Is it necessary for two men cam tying
on a farm in partnership in Q'land to have
the partnership registered? (2) Could
creditors recover from the partnership money
lent to one partner some years before? (3)
Could one partner sell his share without
the consent of the other? —6554.
(1) Not legally essential, but advisable.
(2) No. (3) Depends on terms of partner-
ship agreement.
IIow can I eradicate borers in a black-
thorn walking-stick without injuring the
bark? The insects have been at work for
some time..- —6397.
Immerse the stick for five to ten minutes
in water which is almost boiling. An
alternative method is to soak the wood
thoroughly in a mixture of one part coal-
tar creosote to five parts kerosene.
(1) Is the N.S.W. Transport Act in
operation? (2) Does it apply to horse
teams as well as motors? —6588.
(1) Yes, from October 23. (2) No.
(1) By what means are airships anchored
to their hangars? (2) Are they steered into
position by the pilot? (3) How does he
embark and disembark? —6421.
(1) When housed in sheds (and that is
only for overhauls or repairs), they are held
in position by ground weights, an effort
being made to retain the craft in a state of
neutral buoyancy. At other times they are
attached to fixed or mobile mooring-masts.
(2) The attachment of an airship to a
mooring-mast is accomplished under the
direct supervision of the pilot. When being
housed in a shed an airship is handled by
ground personnel. (3) Passengers and
crew embark via a gangway. The mooring-
mast has within it a lift or staircase.
(1) Is there a market for pearlshell in
Australia and abroad? (2) Where to get
in touch with buyers? (3) What is its
market value? —6547.
(1) At present time there is only a
limited market. Practically all the pearl-
shell obtained in Q’land waters is sold at
Thursday Island for shipment to London
and New York. Chving to an accumulation
of shell overseas, production this season has
been considerably curtailed by arrangement
amongst those engaged in the industry. (2)
Limited supplies could be sold at Thursday
Island by tender or private sale. Names
of buyers can be obtained from the secretary,
Chamber of Commerce, Thursday Island.
(3) During year ended 30th June last, price
ranged from £63 to £115 per ton, according
to quality.
(1) Does the Government allow such
’planes as the Bristol Bulldog, Hawker
Hornet or Gloster Gamecock to be
privately owned? (2) How much does the
Air Force pay for these ’planes, and where
are they made? —6574.
(1) They arc all on the open market.
(2) Cost is not disclosed. (3) The Bull-
dog is manufactured in Bristol, the Hornet
in Kingston and the Gamecock in Chelten-
ham.
Are there any art scholarships offering
in Melbourne next year which a young
Victorian artist (age 22 and note humping
the bluey in Q’land) could enter for? If so,
could you furnish particulars? —6481.
One—the travelling scholarship, offered by
National Gallery to student who has passed
through its whole course or is at some
other school. Competitor must submit
figure drawing from life and half-figure
life-size painting of nude accompanied by
certificate from master that student was
in attendance and drawing is original. Must
be under 28 and must have been domiciled
in Australia or M.L. seven years. Winner
entitled to £225 per annum for two years
and must reside in some European art
centre. The Grace Joel scholarship is not
again available till 1933.
I am a young veterinary surgeon. Would
there be any scope for my services in the
volunteer military forces? What branch
could I best serve in and what rank would
be allotted to me? What rates of pay
would I receive during encampment? —6499.
Ample scope if you join the Australian
Army Veterinary Corps. Officers in the
A.A.V.C. arc granted the rank of lieutenant
until they reach the age of 26, when they
arc ranked as captains. The pay of a
lieutenant is 15s. and that of captain 22s.
6d. a day while on duty.
I am thinking of taking a fortnight’s
holiday at one of the N.S.W. coastal resorts
towards the end of November. Where
would be a good place to go to get plenti-
ful catches of fish off the rocks? Also
varieties of fish likely to bite? —6459.
South head of Shoalhaven River is a good
camping ground. Snapper and a variety of
rock fish can be caught off rocks, and sand-
whiting, black bream, trevally and salmon
off beaches. Lake Illawarra South offers
good rock fishing off Windang Island.
Snapper and a good variety of fish off rocks;
sand-whiting, black bream, jewfisli, tailor
and salmon off beach.
(1) Are there any gliding clubs in Syd-
ney? (2) Fees? (3) Are members required
to pass a medical test? (4) How long
would it take to learn gliding? —6509.
(1) Four: Granville Gliding Club, E. L.
Perry, see., 23 Nelson-street, Annandalc;
Pelton Glider School. Rox 2249LL, G.P.O.,
Sydney; N.S.W. Gliding Club, J. C. Lyons,
sec., 28 Bond-street, Sydney; Aero Club of
N.S.W. (Gliding Section), Aerodrome,
Mascot. (2) Fees of Granville Club are
£1 Is. entrance, and £1 per hour instruction ;
Pelton School, £1 Is. entrance, 5s. per half-
day instruction; N.S.W. Gliding Club, 10s.
subscription and 12s. 6d. per day instruc-
tion; Aero Club (Gliding Section), 10s. 6d.
entrance and 9d. per flight. (3) Not at
present, but in the near future medical test
will probably be required. (4) Varies with
the individual. “A” license tesjs for glider
pilots are quite simple, and average pupils
should be able to pass these in from 40 to
50 towed flights.
What member of Parliament introduced the
bill for the abolition of capital punishment
in Queensland? When teas it passed and
what was the voting? Did it go before the
Upper House?— 6489.
It was first introduced in 1916 by J. A.
Fihelly. Minister without portfolio in the
Ryan Ministry. The bill passed its second
reading in the Leg. Assembly by 37 to 14.
The motion for its second reading in the
Leg. Council was negatived on the voices.
The bill was again introduced in 1922 by J.
Mullan, Attorney-General in the Theodore
Ministry, passed its second reading in the
Assembly by 33 to 30, and was assented to
on July 31. 1922. There was no Leg. Coun-
cil at this time.
(1) In what gear was watermarked paper
first used in printing N.S.W. stamps? (2)
On what issue was this paper first used?
(3) Particulars of watermark? —6613.
(1) January, 1854. (2) The Id., 2d. and
3d. Laureate. (3) A double-lined numeral
representing the penny value of the stamp,
there being one watermark per stamp. Some
of the 3d. Laureate stamps were printed on
paper watermarked 2.
Would it be possible to instal a radio set
and hear programmes in a submarine? I
understand the Wilkins submarine expedi-
tion had such equipment.— M3476.
A receiver completely screened in a thick
metal case and having no outside aerial can-
not pick up distant wireless signals. A
submarine can receive distant signals only
when its aerial is above the surface of the
water. Wilkins’s sub. carried a 200-
watt transmitter and receiver and com-
municated with station WRIT, New York.
For sub-glacial radio communication
arrangements were made whereby temporary
aerials could be erected on the ice when the
submarine paused for observations. For
this purpose the Nautilus carried an icc-
boring mechanism on the top of the conning-
tower which was capable of boring a hole
through 13ft. of ice large enough for a man
to pass. It has not been disclosed what
degree of success was obtained as a result
of these sub-glacial tests.
(1) What is the treatment for mildew
in roses? (2) Are there any mildew-proof
roses ? —6641.
(1) Spray with lime and sulphur or dust
with flowers of sulphur. Potash (ashes
from a wood fire will do) worked into the
roots of the plant is a deterrent. (2)
There are many mildew-proof in well-drained
soil, particularly Maman Cocliet (white and
pink), Rod Letter Day, Rhea Reid, Hadley,
Hoosier Beauty, Alex. Ilill Gray and Souv-
enir de P. Notting. In a damp position mil-
dew will attack any variety.
A person, has 6ft. to travel. His first
step measures 36in., second 18in. third 9in..
and so he decreases each step by half that
of the preceding one. How many steps would
he have to take to cover the 6ft. ? —9234.
It is impossible for him to complete the
journey, since no matter how far the com-
putation ma> be taken, or what infinitesimal
distance has to be travelled to make up
the "six feet, the next step can be only half
that distance.
Does Anybody Know?
How to prevent birds from nesting beneath
a roof? —6639.
Brief Answers.
B.B.W.T.: Write to the Lady Superin-
tendent, Nurse Training School, Melbourne Hospital.
. ...J.C.: Where made payable to a named person
“or bearer” it does not require to be endorsed, and
the crossing and marking it “not negotiable” simply
mean that it must be passed through a banking
account... .A.S.B.: (1) £481 5s. (2) Ten years, less
seven weeks. (3) It is not the practice in ordinary
circumstances, to charge interest on law costs....
A. : Under the N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act your
liability for interest has been reduced from 8 p.c.
to 6 1-5 p.c W.T.: The early Broken Hill minute
book records him as E. Thomson... .H.C.L.: (I)
Not unreasonable. (2) It is customary to pay for
making a copy. .. . J.S.: Your Cruikshank reproduc-
tions have no commercial value... .L.E.P.: John
Eric Frith. .. . G.R.L.: Know of no book on the
subject. Framing as for a wooden-sheathed canoe.
Canvas is treated with a waterproofing preparation.
. ...W.D.: The Public Service Board states that
your application is being considered... .K.S.C.:
Angus and Robertson’s “Table Book and Mental
Arithmetic,” 3d., contains practically everything
you need for farm calculations. Sutton and Bruce’s
“Higher Arithmetic” (Angus and Robertson) and
Howe’s “Mathematics for the Practical Man”
(Dymocks) are good introductions to serious mathe-
matical study... .B.O’S.: There is no short method.
It is a matter of simple arithmetic... .Rockbank:
Dymocks list 30 books on the subject. No book
will make you a writer if you aren’t one. Gerald
Dillon’s “Why Editors Regret,” 2s. 8d. posted, is
a useful practical guide to marketing. . . .Francis F.:
May succeed; but there is substantial risk. Hesitate to
advise anyone to throw up a sure town job to
take the other on... . Filipo: Prospects bleak
B. : (1) Whether you can draw sustenance
depends on your circumstances. Write to the Q’land
Dept, of Labor and Industry, Edward-street, Bris-
bane. (2) You could pitch a tent at, Caloundra on
the Q. north coast ; good fishing, bathing and library
are available. Similarly at Tewantin... .H.B.S.:
Melba was born on May 19, 1865... .H.A.K.: Maeter-
linck is pronounced Mah-ter-link.... H.S.: There is
no sequel, by Priestley, to “Adam in Moonshine”.. ..
P.M.V.: An injured Soccer player can be replaced
in the second half if no objection is raised 'by the
captain of the other side... .P.M.T.: A four years’
course in optometry will commence at Sydney Tech.
Coll, early in 1932 ; leaving-certificate entrance.
Apply to Registrar, Chief Secretary’s Office,
Macquarie-street. . . .B.F.H.: Science' provides no
authoritative answers to these questions. .. .F.T.F.:
No method of gaining height can be recommended
save general physical culture and outdoor exercise.
R.N.Y.: Try Arthur Searcy, 17 Harrow-road,
St. Peters (S.A.) . . . .L.McK.: (1) Tenders for the new
butter factory at Wellington (N.S.W.) were called
recently. Building starts next autumn. (2) No;
probably a month or two before opening, then for
experienced manager only, other labor being secured
locally. (3) P. Semberger, chairman; J. G. Muir,
sec.; A.’ C. Paige, F. W. Brownhill, J. M. Whiteley,
R. M. Kimbell, representing board’s committee of
management.... W.H.: New Australia is in the
Department of Ajos, eastward of Asuncion, 20 miles
from Caballero, a station on the Paraguay trunk
line leading south to Buenos Ayres. Some of Lane’s
erstwhile followers are still there... .J.L.H.: There
are no hard and fast rules in these cases. It was
reported from Europe a few days ago that a woman
of 72 had had a child.. .F.McD.: Lucri Causa means
“For the sake of gain.” Finis Coronal Opus, “The
end crowns the work”... . C.B.: The person to whom
the property passes pays death and succession duties.
. ...E.B.: Teachers of music are not employed by
N.S.W. Dept, of Education. Instruction in this
subject is given by teachers, qualified to teach all
subjects, possessing special musical qualifications.
. ...J.E.R.: The seven wonders of the ancient world
were : The pyramids of Egypt; the Pharos lighthouse
at Alexandria ; Babylon’s walls and hanging gardens;
Diana’s temple at Ephesus; Phidias’s statue of
Zeus; the Mausoleum erected by Artemisia at Hali-
carnassus ; and the Colossus of Rhodes. There is no
accepted modern revision.... H.G.: It is a silver
crown, worth 6s. in mint condition, otherwise face
value... .C.T.: (1) Appears to be a Graeco-Roman
bronze coin of the later period. Worth about 9d.
(2) Byzantium, probably. Constantine II., worth Is.
(3) (4), (5) and (6) Rubbings too faint to judge
value. No market at present... .B.Mclv.: Under rules
99 and 100, if the declarer leads from the wrong
hand, and the error is pointed out before an opponent
plays to it, the opponents have the right to require
the declarer to lead a card of the same suit from
the proper hand. If the proper hand has no cards
of that suit, any card may be led.


ALIEN CORN
By G.M. Turnbull
Synopsis : During the absence of Jim
Huntley, Resident Magistrate of
Aikoroa, Papua, on sick leave, the
natives get out of hand. Returning,
Huntley gives them twelve days to
■pay their taxes. Going on to Nataroa
Plantation he delivers a letter to
the dipsomaniacal owner, Charlie
Durr ant, on whom Huntley suspects
Roger Calvert, trader, is battening. It
is from Marian, Durrant’s young
daughter, whom Huntley met on ship-
board and has fallen in love with. It
tells her father that, as he had always
put her off when she wrote of return-
ing from “down south,” where she had
been brought up, she is paying him a
surprise visit. This news plunges
Durrant, icho had “gone nativeinto
despairing remorse. Bringing him to
the residency, Huntley grimly fights to
reclaim him —for Marian’s sake.
Marian arrives in the Maipua from
Baramata, where she was delayed;
but Huntley has Durrant sober, and
she does not suspect his terrible weak-
ness. The dilapidated house at
Nataroa is burnt down — accidentally,
Marian believes, but really by Freddie
Chisholm, Huntley’s young assistant
and her friend. She too is invited to
live at the residency. Huntley’s sus-
picions are forming that Calvert, for
his own profit, with the sorcerer
Maragi, is causing the native unrest.
The twelve days have passed. Having
ordered Chisholm, indignant at being
left behind, to follow slowly with the
police detachment, Huntley, with
Gibara only, by strength of will dis-
arms the Aikoroans. He demands the
tax and Maragi appears. Maragi is
arrested and humiliated before the
amazed natives. Examining the sor-
cerer’s bag Huntley just escapes death
by snakebite.
CHAPTER XV.
THEN something snapped in Huntley’s
brain. A fierce rage throbbed hot within
him. He dropped from the platform to
the ground and took a step forward in the
direction of Maragi. The sorcerer recoiled
from the white man’s wrath, holding his
manacled hands above his head. His very
body seemed to shrink from the fury that
looked out from Huntley’s eyes. Huntley
stooped over him and roughly hauled him to
his feet. One hand gripped the sorcerer’s
woolly mop, the other reached out for
Gibara’s key. The handcuffs clattered to the
ground. Huntley stood off and struck
Maragi across the mouth with the back of
his hand. Maragi yelped like a stricken cur.
The breath of the villagers went in one long
sibilant gasp. Never had they seen the
“Gavamani” moved and mastered by a real
and righteous anger.
“You filthy, stinking swine!” Huntley
rasped. He struck Maragi again. What held
him from wringing his neck he did not
know. Maragi, after that one screech, was
glaring like a beast about to spring. Hunt-
ley’s hand tightened on his hair and with
a mighty heave he threw the sorcerer bodily
into the crowd.
There was a moment of tense silence.
Maragi rose to his knees, stood up, shak-
ing. His head moved from side to side, his
face was malevolent, infinitely devilish. He
lifted his voice in a scream of fury. :
“Bymeby I”
Again a berserk rage took possession of
Huntley. He took a flying leap towards
the sorcerer, sending the squatting villagers
scattering right and left. Maragi twisted
like an eel, and, screeching terrible threats
of vengeance, writhed into the undergrowth.
“He make big-fella trouble, that black
cow, I t’ink so,” Gibara muttered. And he
let go a long sigh.
Still shaken and a little sick, Huntley
climbed back to the platform. The natives’
mouths were agape; their eyes goggled.
Huntley sat down limply.
“My boots, Sergeant,” he grated.
Gibara watched him with friendly gravity
as he laced up his half-cleaned boots. Not
a sound came from the villagers. Hunt-
ley sat silent a moment, shivered faintly and
lifted his head.
“Let it be known, Sergeant,” he said
slowly, “to the people of Aikoroa that so
soon as another man dies in his hut”— —
he paused meaningly, “from the pourri-
pourri white men call snakebite, Maragi of
the One Eye shall surely hang.”
The faces of the natives were flat and
devoid of expression. It was of no use,
Huntley reflected, to preach to them, to
seek to superimpose white man’s logic upon
their primitive instincts, to tell them that
pourri-pourri was twaddle for fools to dally
with. The age of reason had not dawned in
Papua. Superstition! It brooded over the
land like a noisesome cloud.
It came upon Huntley that the Goddess
of Luck had been kind to him. He had
been very close to death—a lingering, agon-
ising death of unspeakable horror. The evil
expectation written on Maragi’s face as he,
Huntley, had toyed with the death-carry-
ing bamboo still haunted him. There was
still an icy tightness about his scalp, his
nerves were still jangled. But there was a
certain satisfaction to be derived from the
knowledge that Maragi’s pride and conceit
had been badly mauled, his prestige effec-
tually weakened.
Huntley took up his forgotten pipe,
scraped a match on his boot-heel ■ and ex-
pelled a cloud of smoke.
“There yet remains,” he remarked judi-
cially, “the matter of the poll-tax.”
This time there was no babble of dissent-
ing voices, but Huntley’s mind translated
into words the unease registered on the
faces of his auditors. They shifted on
their haunches, nudged one another, mut-
tered to themselves. A question formed
itself in Huntley’s mind; a doubt whether,
after all, his suspicions were justified. Per-
haps their futile gesture of hostility to the
Government may not have been the result
of some secret influence working insidiously
on superstitious minds.
Deep in thought his hands played idly
with the sorcerer’s bag, while the natives
continued to mutter. The bag was not
empty, and, with a quick movement, Hunt-
ley upended it. Among the miscellaneous
collection of junk that rolled out was a
flat packet neatly wrapped in tapa-cloth. He
slit open the packet with the point of his
knife. His lips tightened in a griin line;
he whistled soundlessly. Then, his eye
determined, he turned to the villagers.
“Maragi of the One Eye has been well
paid for the evil he has wrought.”
It was seconds before the import of his
words sank in; seconds more before lie
received an answer. Then old Akodari
blinked at him questioningly.
“What, Taubada, is this talk of pay-
ment?”
“Bah!” Huntley retorted sourly.
“There are mysteries we may not chal-
lenge, Taubada,” Akodari sententiously
declared. “Mysteries plainly beyond the
comprehensions of men.”
“As for instance?”
Akodari shrugged his skinny shoulders.
“Maragi of the One Eye is possessed of
much wisdom; well versed is he in the
ancient mysteries. Does a man seek to
evoke the spirits of 1 his ancestors to work
a mischief on his enemy; to heal the sick-
ness of his pig, his dog, his wife; to ensure
the fruitfulness of his garden, the obedience
of his children, the virtue of his wife; to
awaken love in the heart of a wayward
jade—then has Maragi the knowledge
wherewith to aid him; the wisdom pertain-
ing to charms, to incantations, to spirits that
are benign and those that are evil—to all
things, Taubada, unseen and fearfully to be
thought of; to things, Taubada” —he spat
quickly—“of which white men know noth-
ing.”
Old Akodari’s face was alight with the
fire engendered by his eloquence. His
skinny body swayed to and fro, sweat
trickled down his withered cheeks as fiery
javelins out of the brassy sky beat upon
his unprotected head. His countrymen,
loving oratory, urged him in hoarse whispers
to continue.
“Last year the people made no trouble
concerning the tax,” Huntley put in. “This
year the spirit of rebellion is abroad. Why?”
Akodari wet his lips. “Last year was a
year of leanness, Taubada. The cocoanuts
were but of the bigness of a child’s head;
the sweet potatoes were full of string, the
taro was of an exceeding dryness.”
“Because, last year, there was no rain.”
Akodari gave a significant shrug. “Yet
was the tax paid, Taubada,” he said drily.
Huntley surveyed him with a cold eye.
“Go on, my friend,” he said with curt
patience. “You are about to tell me that
the spirits have been angry with the people
because of the ‘Gavamani’ tax law. Now,
this year, being a year of fatness, the spirits
have showered abundance upon the people,
because they have defied the •‘Gavamani.’ ”
Akodari nodded vigorously. There came
a chorus of agreement from the villagers.
Huntley led them on like a skilled tacti-
cian.
“It was by night,” he mused aloud, “at
a certain season when the moon was round,
or perchance of the shape of a shell breast
ornament, that the spirits communed with
Maragi, telling him of the fierceness of their
wrath and how best it might be appeased.”
“True, Taubada,” Akodari agreed; “it
was indeed by night, at the time of. the full
moon, three months gone, that the spirits
made known their anger to Maragi.”
Again there was an enthusiastic chorus
of assent. Then Huntley struck straight
and hard. He pointed the stem of his pipe
directly at Akodari.
“And you will testify in court as you
have spoken now?”
Akodari leapt back. “No, Taubada,” he
screeched. “By God—no!”
“Damn!” snapped Huntley.
Always the blank wall of superstitious
fear called “fashion b’long New Guinea”;
always apprehension, always haunting dread
of the One Who Goes by Night and his
power to silence unguarded tongues! Not
alf the arguments he, Huntley, could bring
to bear could unlock lips so sealed by ignor-
ance and fear. No promise of reward nor
threat of punishment could break down their
age-long dread of the Powers of Evil. The
“Gavamani,” they would argue stubbornly,
could but put men in gaol; but the Wise
Ones could bring misfortune, death itself,
on those who were obnoxious to them. The
“Gavamani” had the police with their rifles
and bayonets to enforce its decrees. Maragi’s
friends and allies were malignant spirits
conjured at will from the Great Darkness.
Maragi was their voice, their interpreter;
they were the emissaries of his vengeance,
the executants of his destroying curse. It
were far better that the “Gavamani” should
leave to New Guinea the things that were
of New Guinea, rather than meddle with
matters of which they knew nothing.
Wh:Huntley was thinking, Akodari said
aloud.
“Swiftly and silently they strike, these
Wise Ones,” he growled in a cautious under-
tone, and he glanced fearfully around him.
“The Law also, is not slow,” Huntley
retorted, “provided there be proof.”
Akodari drew in his head like a tortoise.
“Proof!” he wheezed. “He-he! Since
when, Taubada, has the fish-hawk left his
track in the air, or the shark through the
sea?” There was a peculiar fixed expres-
sion in the old fellow’s eyes as he stared
moodily at Huntley.
Huntley shook his head, frowning. “As
a woman fills a drinking vessel with water,
so has Maragi of the One Eye filled your
heads with foolish tales. The patience of
the ‘Gavamani’ is at an end.”
The ring of natives sat on, working their
shoulders, scratching and exhibiting other
signs of boredom. The heat was intense,
the odor of filth and sweat and all unclean-
ness was abominable. Suddenly Sergeant
Gibara cocked an ear, bending forward to
listen. There came a coo-ee from the track.
“Mis’ Chisholm come, sah.” Gibara
announced.
“The people may go, Sergeant,” Huntley
decided. “Tell them so. Tell them also,
that, after we have eaten, Mis’ Chisholm
will collect the tax from certain of the men
I shall name, and he will make known my
orders concerning the village.” He waved
a hand in dismissal. “Let there be no more
of this nonsense,” he added curtly.
The villagers scattered, giving vent to
their relief with loud whoops. Huntley
reached for his pipe.
A few minutes later Chisholm and the
police marched into the village. They
looked hot, dishevelled, and they were
breathing hard.- Chisholm’s face seemed
white, strained, and he was drenched in
perspiration. Huntley eyed him with toler-
ant amusement. An automatic of formidable
calibre dangled on his hip, a well-filled ban-
dolier • constricted his chest, and in the
crook of his arm reposed a police carbine.
“Thank the Lord you’re all right!” he
cried before he was within easy sneaking
distance. “You are all right, old chap?”
Huntley airily waved his pipe. Chisholm
dismissed the detachment and came up
panting and blowing.
“We did the last half-mile at the double,”
he said. “Heard a shot, or thought we did
—made all hands a bit windy.”
He glanced around him in some per-
plexity. There were fighting spears scat-
tered about in all directions, stone clubs,
bamboo knives;—all the signs of battle.
His eye lighted on Sergeant Gibara, very
much at ease, shepherding a sulky native
in bedraggled finery, and a thick-thewed
youth looking very sorry for himself.
“I say, R.M.,” he demanded, “has there
been a fuss, any funny business? It gave
me a bit of a jolt—that shot.”
“You feel that you have been defrauded
of a bit of action, eh?” Huntley laughed.
“Don’t feel aggrieved, son. It was as tame
as a mothers’ meeting—in spots.”
Briefly he narrated the events of the
morning. Chisholm listened with absorbed
attention, letting out a whistle now and
then as Huntley’s story unfolded itself.
He expressed himself with profane forceful-
ness when Huntley came to the episode
of the snake in the bamboo sheath.
“Great Scott!” he muttered. “What a
perfectly devilish contraption! And what
a close shave!” He shivered. “Hateful
things—snakes! Ugh!”
The police had slung their rifles. They
were swaggering about among the huts, bar-
tering shreds of trade tobacco for betel-
nut, and ogling the village maidens. Gibara
had kindled a fire and was boiling the billy.
“We’ll have lunch at the ‘rest-house,”
Huntley stated. “It will be much cooler
there, and not quite so damned smellful.”
He stood up, straightening his lean length.
The contents of Maragi’s magic bag lit-
tered the platform floor. Huntley turned
the stuff over with the toe of his boot. A
round object caught his eye—a treasured
possession, evidently, since it was bound
round with pandanus fibre. Huntley picked
it up fingering it gingerly.
“Look out, old chap.” Chisholm implored,
“you don’t know what filthy gadget it
may be. Throw the damned thing away.”
Huntley hesitated for a second. Then
he tore away the wrappings. He laughed.
He was holding a bottle in his hand—a
small bottle, glass-stoppered, containing
a light-colored, viscous fluid.
“Catch, Chisholm!” he cried, and he
tossed the. bottle in the air. Chisholm
fielded it smartly,, held it a moment and
smashed it against the piles that supported
the long-house.
Both men wrinkled their noses.
“What the deuce?” Chisholm began.
“Some sort of oil—mixed with bilge-
water.” Huntley interrupted.
“’Nother kind medicine, I t’ink so,” Ser-
geant Gibara suggested. He sniffed noisily.
“All same ’nother kind Hepison salts, hey?”
Huntley swung himself down from the
platform.
“You are quite right, Sergeant/' he
agreed. He bent down and scooped up
some of the liquid in the palm of his hand.
“It’s castor oil, all right.” He rubbed the
liquid with a finger. For a moment or
two his frowning glance was bent upon
Gibara. Then he turned to Chisholm.
“I’d be sorry for the poor devil who took
a dose of this. Powdered bamboo,” Hunt-
ley rasped. “Mixed with the ‘white man’s
medicine.’ The swine!”
“I don’t quite”
“You’ve heard of powdered glass, haven’t
you?” Huntley asked. Chisholm nodded,
paling a little. “Well, powdered bamboo
is slower, more painful and a damned sight
surer.”
Gibara snorted. “la!” he dismissed the
subject. “Close up billy-can boil, sah.”
Huntley turned again to the junk on the
platform. He tapped his pocket, making
sure that the t,apa-wra.pped packet was safe.
He picked up the bag. It was a perfect
sample of native weaving, skilfully
fashioned from the fine drawn fibres of the
banana-leaf. He held it up.
Gibara was stoking up the fire, chewing
betel-nut with gusto.
“This is a very fine kiapa [bag.], Ser-
geant,” Huntley said, “very useful to a
man having a wife. I give it to you.”
Gibara spat hastily. He looked embar-
rassed.
“No, sah, t’ank you, sah,” he replied
firmly.
“A present for Loa, your wife, Sergeant,”
Huntley insisted.
Gibara vigorously shook his grizzled head.
A look of extreme distaste came into his
eyes.
“No fear, sah!” he declared violently.
“I no want.”
Huntley laughed at him, but the ser-
geant’s face was very serious.
“More better we put’m altogether ’long
fire,” he earnestly advised. “They no
good, these pourri-pourri somet’ings.”
Thereupon he proceeded to collect
Maragi’s possessions on the point of a
spear. Not for all the wealth of the Coral
Sea would he have touched them with his
hands. He looked distinctly uneasy as he
consigned the rubbish to the flames, and,
as the two white men walked away they
heard him delivering a maledictory address.
The rest-house, provided for the con-
venience of travelling Europeans, stood a
short distance away from the village. It
lacked a roof; there were gaping holes in
the goru-palm walls; everything about it
testified to the neglect and slothfulness of
its native caretakers.
' The garbage-strewn street of the village,
with its prowling dogs and obscene pigs,
showed up more vividly than ever from the
verandah. But Huntley observed that,
even now, the women and some of the
more energetic males were stirring up
ancient smells as they raked the refuse
into heaps in readiness for the firesticks.
The two white men turned their backs
and ate their tinned lunch facing the
limpid, sun-flecked sea. During the meal
Chisholm kept up a constant fire of com-
ment and question. He was immensely
curious, avid for information as to Hunt-
ley’s adventures and the extent by which
they had been influenced by the man Cal-
vert and Maragi his ghostly ally. Always
he came back to the question:
“Did you discover anything (jefimte.
R.M.? Anything you can take hold of and
sheet home?”
“I’m satisfied I was on the right track,’
Huntley told him, “but a.s for proof ’ —he
smiled—“that is a horse of quite another
color. I have considered following the thing
up, but it was only a passing consideration.
I’m satisfied, more than satisfied, to leave
well alone —for the present.”
“But the fellow’s a danger to—to every-
body,” Chisholm protested. “I don’t know
whether I ought to tell you, but Ao
matter, he ought to be booted out of the
country. Can’t you take a chance and
charge him?”
Huntley switched off. “We’ll fix up the
details of your part of the job,” he coun-
tered, “and forget Mr. Blasted Calvert
He tore a page out of his notebook,
thought a while, and wrote. “Here are
the names of the leading ‘citizens’ in order
of influence and importance. I’ve omitted
old Akodari. He’s a good old kite, and I
shan’t humiliate him. Don’t seek them out
yourself, mind. Send your orderly to round
’em up, and you’ll find they’ll pay. Then,
through an interpreter, order all taxable
males to come to the station with their tax
money to-morrow. They’ll give you no
trouble either. I’ll leave you to handle
the situation: you can’t learn too soon,
old chap. While you’re doing your stuff
I’ll stroll to Nataroa and pick you up on
my return.”
He paused, looked up. “I say, Chisholm.
Get an eyeful of this. will, you!”
Avery ancient, wrinkled native was
approaching the rest-house. He walked
with immense dignity, with an air of deci-
sion, of purpose. By his side, strutting m
imitation of his elder, was a tiny urchin,
beady-eyed, sleek and entirely naked.


Lumbago
DON’T LINGER ON IN
PAIN AND SUFFERING!
“Oh! oh! my back—it’s nearly breaking. 1 can’t get
straight again once I stoop down. It seems just as though
an iron hand is gripping me, wrenching the muscles, making
me just sick with pain’’ ....
How many thousands of men and women, victims of
torturing lumbago, could repeat these words? How many
have come to the brink of breakdown by chronic symptoms
that actually reveal deep-seated kidney trouble?
POISONS IN YOUR BLOOD ARE
CAUSING YOUR SUFFERING
It is vitally important that you should realise the fact that
the pain you suffer is caused by poisons in the blood, for then
you will know that the only rational method of ending your
trouble is to prompt the kidneys to their natural work of
keeping the blood free from pain-giving impurities.
Thousands of one-time sufferers, now restored to health,
will tell you there is no surer, safer, more certain and inex-
pensive remedy for lumbago, chronic backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, bladder trouble and all the sure signs of kidney
trouble, than De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Where all
other remedies fail, in cases where men and women have been
bed-ridden, or perhaps have suffered—not weeks, but years—
De Witt’s Pills have banished the old pain and restored health.
.x \\ \ A v\ l l l iilih / '////////AAs.%
DcWITTS
lONEY AND BLADDEr
d
HIS REMEDY
BEARS A DEFINITE
GUARANTEE
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills carry a very definite guar-
antee to show results in 24 hours
from the very first dose. The
color of the urine tells you these
strength-restoring pills are acting
directly on the kidneys. But he
sure you obtain the genuine
remedy. Don’t be misled by any
imitation or substitute —see the
name clearly on the package.
When you have the true De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
cost but 3/6 per box, you may be
assured you have really started on
the road to permanent health and
strength. Ask your chemist how
good they are.
TERRIBLE PAINS IN BACK
RELIEVED.
Mr. W. Monagham, Second
Avenue, Campsie (N.S.W.), says :
“Owing to working in the damp
basement of building, I was
troubled with terrible pains in my
back, and could not stand straight.
A friend recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and
one bottle was sufficient to relieve
me. I have never had any return
of my trouble since.’
Mr. W. H. Curtis, 31 Wright
Street, Adelaide, writes: “About
five years ago I was laid up for
sixteen weeks with neuritis and
rheumatism, partially paralysed.
I was recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
I am happy to say pulled me
through. I am 74 years of age
and still able to hold my own
with younger men. I have en-
joyed the best of health ever
since.”
“The son of my son’s son, Taubada,” the
old man announced, throwing a sweeping
salute. The small boy determinedly thrust
out his stomach and saluted gravely. “By
name, Pita,” the old man continued. “Some
day he shall be a policeman. Taubada, I
want to talk.”
“Sit down, Akodari,” Huntley responded.
“Always my ears are open to you.
Akodari granted as he seated himself on
the bottom step. The urchin stared un-
blinkingly at the white men.
“Taubada,” Akodari opened, “Dohugu—
he of the hornbill’s beak—is a good lad.”
“He will be a better when he comes back
to the village cured of his foolishness,”
Huntley drily commented.
“Many beaks I, Akodari, flaunted in the
old days, Taubada; before the white men
came and spoiled New Guinea. Many
times have I been bewitched by the magic
of a woman’s eyes.”
“As these many moons the people of
Aikoroa have been bewitched by the evil
counsels of Maragi of the One Eye—and
another.”
“That,” Akodari comfortably asserted,
“is as the morning mist smitten by the
rising sun. It is finished, Taubada, as well
you know.”
He dived into his string-bag and pro-
duced a handful of greasy shillings.
“Tarnona, rua, toi, hard” —he counted
solemnly in Motuan up to ten, laying the
coins side by side on the step. “I pay
Dohugu’s tax, Taubada. He is a good lad,
Taubada, even as I was in the days of my
youth.”
Again he dived into his bag, and another
row of carefully counted shillings, paral-
leled the first.
“I pay also the tax of Kadoa, the village
constable, that it may be a comfort to him
while he is breaking stones. Kadoa has but
few friends in Aikoroa this day, Taubada.”
For a second Huntley was silent. Then
he leaned over and tapped the old man on
the shoulder.
“Let the son of your son’s son, by name
Pita, come to the Gavamani when he is of
age to serve with the police. And you,
my friend,” he ended warmly, “come up
and smoke with us.”
CHAPTER NVI.
Huntley was a ruthless taskmaster. There
were forest trees to be felled, nipa fronds to
be collected and plaited, goru and black
palm to be cut down and split for the new
house; and from daylight to dusk he drove
Durrant relentlessly.
The old man was drinking deep of the
cup of bitterness. There were times when
his old familiar devil laid clutching hands
upon his throat, and every nerve in his
tortured body ached and throbbed and
screamed for relief. Imprecations would
dribble from his lips, his eyes would glitter
like a madman’s eyes, and Huntley would
hurry him to his office and keep him there
until the paroxysm spent itself.
But always Huntley was unsparing, mer-
ciless. He lashed Durrant with his tongue,
dragged him on long tramps into the bush,
threatened him, pleaded with him, humored
him, reviled him, battled for his soul and
Marian’s felicity. There were days when
Durrant was cunning, calm; when he would
chuckle and whisper to himself and Hunt-
ley trembled for his sanity.
Charlie Durrant was as close to Hell as
a man can be on this earth.
Once Huntley surprised him with an iron
bar trying to prise off the heavy padlock
which secured the door of the store. Marian
was pursuing across the parade ground a
pot-bellied four-year-old who owned Ser-
geant Gibara for father. Huntley saw her
pull up and regard her father with a puzzled
frown and his mind worked rapidly.
“Lost the key. Charlie?” he called out in
a loud voice. “Easy with the bar, old chap!
I have a duplicate key somewhere.”
He selected a key from a ring attached
to his belt and threw open the door. Marian
darted after her squealing quarry.
“You poor damned fool!” Huntley hissed
when they were inside. “A man ought to
wipe his hands of you!” He pointed to
a packing-case lying on the concrete floor.
“There’s your booze, Charlie; just as we
brought it from Nataroa. Go to it, you
sweep, if that’s the way you’re feeling.”
Durrant sidled toward the case, bar in
hand, shrinking from the condemnation, the
icy contempt he saw in the younger man’s
eyes.
“Go to it, Charlie! Help yourself—and
make a job of it while you’re about it. You
never were a man; you never will be.”
Durrani’s limbs trembled, his mouth
twitched. He started to stammer, to falter,
and maudlin tears trickled dovm his cheeks.
“You’re hard, Jim. I—I—God! I’ll go
mad—mad!”
“Then hop in and help yourself, man,”
Huntley jeered. “You’re a free agent, the
Lord knows! Hop to it!”
Durrant fell to pleading, flared up in
impotent anger and died down again to
whining. The bar fell from his nerveless
fingers. He collapsed on a packing-case,
rocking himself to and fro, making strange
incoherent noises.
“All right, Jim,” he whispered after a
while. “You win.”
For the first time in many a long day
Huntley felt a lightening of his burden.
Victory, if it was not yet in sight, surely
lay not far below the rim of the horizon.
If Marian ever suspected that there was
something amiss at Aikoroa, she made no
sign. To Huntley, her presence in the
shabby residency was a breath of home in
the wilderness. He caught himself listen-
ing for her quick footsteps; her smiles, her
gestures, all the dainty femininity of her
haunted’ his mind. In his ears her voice
was as soft music; her laugh was a
beguilement; her eyes when, sometimes at
meals, they ’met his, sent waves of tender-
ness surging over him, followed instantly
by a deepening sense of depression.
For Huntley’s very instinct recognised
that he was dreaming a foolish dream; that
in Marian’s comradely jollity was no pro-
mise for the future; that to him she was
the living embodiment of the unattainable,
He was merely a convenient repository for
her confidences, sharer of her thoughts, co-
partner in all her plans; but he could not
pretend, even to himself, that he held quite
the same place in her regard as A
half-formed guess became a flare of know-
lefio-e—it was Chisholm, of course! Like
calling to like, youth attracting youth,
Chisholm could bring a light to her eyes
that he could never kindle; an odd, eager
note to her voice that he could never
evoke. He assumed himself that he was not
hurt, nor resentful, nor angiy. He pro-
tested to himself that the dragging sensa-
tion in his throat when, unexpectedly he
came upon them together, was not jealousy,
He told himself angrily, insistently, that he
was well content with the place in Marian’s
regard she had decided should be his; well
content to warm himself with the mild rays
of her friendship. He liked Chisholm; every
line of the lad inspired liking and confidence
as well. Then let him subordinate his own
rather ludicrous aspirations to Marian s
welfare!
If only he could free himself from the
spell of her—the way her shingled hair
caught the light, the impish curl of her lips
when she smiled, the steady, unafraid gaze
of her disconcerting eyes! And so he strove
to treat the youngsters with gentleness and
understanding, telling himself that he was
old and staid and stodgy; resolving within
himself to abandon the field to youth.
It was the graceful thing, the sensible
thing, to do.
Nevertheless, an intolerable restlessness
tormented him, doubts obsessed his mind,
secret hidden fears assailed him. What
if in taking upon himself the task of re-
habilitating Nataroa Charlie he had not
sufficiently regarded the possibility of
failure ? What if the old man should again
drift, like those derelicts wrecked in the
storm of their own passions, out into a log
of obscurity from which, this tune, there
could be no return, no hope ot salvager
What if the daughter, now full of tender
solicitude for the father, should come to
despise him, and to hate the man respon-
sible for the deception which had been
practised upon her?
Huntley was conscious of a disquieting
sense of insecurity, a vague but real feel-
ing of defencelessness; but always he
watched Charlie Durrant with cat-like vigil-
ance, fanning the tiny spark of decency
deadened by fifteen years of lax living, until
slowly it began to glow into life; gradually,
imperceptibly moulding him into some sem-
blance of the man he might have been.
To Marian those first weeks of waiting
at the residency were halcyon. In the
beginning she had worried secretly and
silently over her father. Little fugitive
memories of childhood awakened a latent
emotion when first she had laid her cheek
against, his. She felt, rather than knew,
that he was disturbingly, woefully changed.
Time and again, when she thought she was
unobserved, she scanned his face with
anxious tenderness, noting with an inward
pang the set lines about his mouth, the
hollows in his cheeks, the look of tortured
weariness in his eyes. His gait was un-
certain, his shoulders stooped, and there was
a humility, a meekness in his manner toward
her that brought the sting of tears to her
eyes. He was old, her father, incredibly
aged; bowed down he was, not by the
burden of his years, but, she felt certain, by
an exhaustion of the soul, a starvation of the
spirit that had nothing to do with his
physical self. Dimly she perceived that
this alien land had taken something from
her father, something it would never re-
store; but fiercely she determined that the
years remaining to her father New Guinea
should not have.
And so she developed a mood of optim-
ism; gaily her thoughts moved on to con-
templation of the future. Her father had
planned Nataroa Plantation —planned it,
developed it, made it. In its modest way
it was a real success, and her father had
sweated blood that it might be so. And
because she was young and utterly un-
spoiled, her heart began to sing within her.
He was a very gallant gentleman, this daddy
of hers; blood and muscle and bone, he was
of the order of the pathfinders, the trail-
blazers, the pioneers of Empire whose work
endures when they are dead and forgotten.
Meanwhile, the strange, new life that had
enfolded her began slowly to fascinate her.
The brilliant sunshine of Papuan days was
sheer delight, the silver radiance of Papuan
nights an unalloye’d joy. The palms sang
under the caressing touch of the trade wind,
the turquoise lagoon sparkled for joy, the
distant incantations of waters on the reef
made muted music in her ears.
(To be continued next week.)


BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
ď
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
694 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
&
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information,, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner/’ “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express 99 obtainable from
YV. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. AV. G. Dougan,
Kenibla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
SPORTIN
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Horses from Sydney and Adelaide appro-
priated most of the plums at the spring race
meetings in Victoria; but in the Wiliiams-
town Cup locally-trained prads were domi-
nant. Each training centre in the metro-
politan area had a share in the prize-money,
Second Wind (Mordialloc) winning his
second Cup from Middle Watch (Fleming-
ton), with Mira Donna (Caulfield) third.
Denis Boy carried Frank McGrath’s con-
fidence, and was supported down to 3 to .1,
but could not do himself justice on a rain-
soaked track. He was third-last seven
furlongs from home. Knox rode him for
dear life along the seaside stretch, but the
imported stallion finished feebly in the
middle of the field.
Of the runners from Randwick, Spearman
gave by far the best display. Though last
to leave the straight and still in a back-
ward position at the half-way stage, he
came home with a lightning rush, just behind
the place-getters. The fact of Spearman
being cast in his motor float on the way
to the course may have accounted for his
slowness in developing speed. Spearman was
second favorite with Mira Donna, rivals
preferred to them being Denis Boy and
Johnnie Jason. The Victoria Derby hero
played a less conspicuous part than any
Sydney horse with the exception of Carry
On, who helped to whip in the field.
Jack Holt saddled up Second Wind, owned
by Ernest Lee Steere, and C. B. Kcllow’s
filly, Gall antic, for the Cup. In their Men-
tone track trials Gallantic had more than
held her own with Second Wind under equal
weights, but with the colors up Second Wind
turned the tables on the Oaks winner, who
was eased up in the concluding furlong and
came in last. Though the daily press quoted
Bert : qert, I thought you
WERE GOING AWAY THIS WEEK ?’*
Qert: nvvke up mv m\hdT
Bert " vJhere to qoV'
Gert'/'No, what to wear to go'.
Second Wind as starting at 15 to I—he1 —he paid
a point longer on the tote. —the Westralian-
owned chestnut was heavily backed by the
stable. Middle Watch gave The Night Patrol
an excellent stud advertisement by running
second, at 50 to,l. This colt, like Shadow
King, is trained by Ted Fisher; he belongs
to J. S. Feehan, of the V.R.C. committee,
Mira Donna is owned by a son of the late
Herbert Power, who won the Sydney Cup of
1899 with Diffidence.
Tindall is experiencing a welcome change
of luck in Melbourne. He has picked up
several events at provincial meetings,, and
landed the Juvenile Handicap at Williams-
town with Confounder, a Saltash colt. Con-
founder was backed down to equal favorit-
ism with that beautiful filly Sweet Lyra,
and led all the way. He was followed home
by the fast-finishing. Lady Trivalve, whose
sire won both Derbies and the Melbourne
Cup of 1927. Trivalve may make a name
for himself soon as a sire.
* * #
For Caulfield on Saturday
Ivasouka Hurdle: King Aura; next, Var-
quador.
Armadale Handicap: Mulcra ; next, Mira
Donna.
:J: * * *
E. L. Baillieu and “Mr. Constable,” who
in partnership have owned good horses, have
got hold of another useful customer in
Double Dutch, a three-year-old bay gelding
by Backwood —Gibberish. Double Dutch had
shown promising form at Rosehill, and with
Burracootboo out of the Trial Stakes at
Randwick and only commoners left, backers
were agreeably surprised to get 5 to 2.
Second-last early, the three-year-old made up
his ground rapidly in the straight, and Weiss
had no trouble in landing him a winner by
a length from Fine Salt, a thing from New-
castle by Strephon’s sire Saltash out of
Sue. And it was a fast mile for a novice
—lmin. 38a-sec.
Burracootboo had a still easier victory in
the Flying Handicap, the race for which he
was reserved. He opened at 5 to 2 but
firmed to 5 to 4, only Remora and Tenterden
being supported with any spirit against him.
Neither of these troubled Goshawk’s brother,
who led almost from start to finish, get-
ting over the “six” in lmin. 12j-sec.; it was
reserved for old Greenline 133 to 1) to run
second and for Hunt the Slipper (7 to 1)
to follow him home, but there were sizable
gaps between. Remora’s stable-companion
Ranier (5 to 1) put in a game and success-
ful finishing run in the Three : vear-old
Handicap, and recorded capital time with
9st. 51b. up, cutting out seven furlongs in
lmin. 25isec. In this sister to Rampion
J. E. Bi'ien has a worthy candidate for the
Adrian Knox Stakes, but he must be grow-
ing tired of her brother Rosendo, who was
fourth to Port Said (7 to 1), Abbot’s Lad
(sixes) and Killarney (fives) in the High-
weight Handicap. Port Said was second to
Sir Duninald, beating Vigne, in a race at
Warwick Farm before the spring meetings,
but he had recently been vanquished by third-
raters.
* * * *
Loquacious (5 to 2) returned to the win-
ning list in the November Handicap, and
Windbag’s sister will now be in request for
the Christmas Cups. She settled First Acre
(4 to 1) and Inducement (8 to 1) with
a most convincing run; still, Inducement
came home stoutly. Oro, a two-year-old by
Roger de Busli —Sweet Alison, trained by
Jack King for Hunter White, gladdened
McSliortodds by romping home in the Wool-
lahra Stakes, the price being 50 to 1.
:*c $ ❖
For Warwuck Farm on Saturday:—
Macquarie Grove Handicap: Sunlit Reef
or Lord Eudorus; next, My Talisman.
Yarraville Handicap: Sunlit Reef or
Remora: next, High Disdain.
Homebush Handicap: Sunder Lee; next,
Ortelle’s Son.
* * * *
In Queensland, as in N. S. Wales, there
are some good three-year-olds this season.
Ptolemy looked a classy animal the day he
ran second to Ammon Ra in the Chelmsford
Stakes, though the race evidently knocked
him out, for he was nowhere in the Rose-
hill Guineas and did not race at the A.J.C.
meetings. Freshened up he was sent to
Brisbane for the Derby Stakes at Ascot,
but proved no match for the pick of the
Queensland lot, Lough Neagh (9 to 4) and
Beelbee, finishing seven lengths behind Beel-
bee, whom Lough Neagh, winner of the
Sires’ Produce Stakes and the Guineas,
beat by half a length, in 2min. 334 sec.
Beelbee was fighting for his head part of the
journey, and it did him no good. With a
change of jockeys and methods, lie won the
Queensland Cup in the Piastoon style, and
perhaps he will come south and repeat Pias-
toon’s achievement in the Sydney Cup.
Second favorite, at 11 to 2, to Lough Neagh
(9 to 4), who finished sixth, he got home
a length ahead of St. Valorey (12 to 1). who
was his own length ahead of Boastful (33
to 1), the two miles being traversed in the
very fast, time of 3min. 23Jsec. Beelbee is
a brown gelding by imported Leopolis—
Evenui: he is owned by D. Winten and
was ridden by Reynolds.
X =!: * *
C. F. Irving, recently dead at Ascot, his
stud farm near Inverell, at 73, was one of
the best-known racing men on the N.S.W.
Tableland. Among his sires were Yetman,
Rice and Sir Laddo, and the stud turned
out its full share of winners. As an owner
he was also successful, among his best races
being the City Handicap and Armidale Cup
with Ivopje, and the Brisbane Cup with
King, while he also trained successfully for
several owners. In addition to his thorough-
bred interests he was a great admirer of the
Clydesdale, and bred many good horses of
this type.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Wally Hancock (10.7) outclassed Eddie
Daniells (10.11) at Leichhardt, though the
colored American saw the 15th round out.
Jack Roberts (10.6), thrice floored by Jack
Ileeney (10.6), told his seconds to throw
in the towel and was deprived of his share
of the purse—a bit rough on him because
there was no doubt about the punches.
* * * *
The latest weekly fight between flyweights
Vic. White and Ronnie Leonard at the
Stadium was over in half a round. White,
slipping as he let go a left for the body,
landed low and was disqualified.
The Ins and Outs
Without Jackson and Ivippax, N. S. Wales
made a pathetic showing against the South
Africans on the first and second days of
the match on Sydney Cricket Ground. The
visitors won the toss, and Curnow (39)
and Cameron (74) began a stand which
took any sting there was out of the bowling.
Then Taylor, breaking through his hoodoo,
played a master’s innings to go at 124 to
a l.b.w. decision. His exhibition made it
evident why he is looked upon as the greatest
batsman South Africa hag produced. Dalton
accompanied him part of the way with a
fast 87, and Morkel contributed 30 in 11
minutes, including a six and 4 fours, the
total being 425. Hunt (4-84) and McCabe
(3-89) were the best of the bowlers, but
were badly supported by the field. Bell
(4-36), McMillan (4-52) and Vincent
(2-46) disposed of the home side for 168.
Fingleton (30) and McCabe (37) alone
shaped confidently, Bradman playing a
colorless knock for 30. The Afrikander
fielding was uncommonly keen, Dalton at
cover and Cameron behind the sticks being
outstanding. Bell has an inswing and
makes pace off the pitch, while he seems
tireless. McMillan is as good a slowbreak
bowler as we have seen in Sydney for years ;
he had everyone tied up. Vincent is an
accurate lefthander who varies his pace well.
With 3 down for 190 (Curnow 79 n. 0.,
Cameron 49; Hunt 3 for 62) _ the Afri-
kanders sportingly closed their second
innings.
* * * ~
South Aus. did well to make 317 against
Victoria at Melbourne. Nitsclike, playing
for a place in the Eleven, weighed in with
a fine 57; Waite (63), Lonergan (43),
Grimmett (40 n. 0.), Hack (36), and Rich-
ardson (24) also made useful contributions,
McCormick took bowling honors with 5 for
103 bringing his bag in big cricket to 15
for 272—something for the .selectors seek-
ing a Test-match speed merchant to note,
Ponsford and Woodfnll (32) gave Victoria
a good start. Ponsford stayed on until he
had 134 up, and with Ryder (64) and Rigg
(34) rising to the occasion it was 5 for
256 at stumps on Saturday. But Grimmett
(5 for 93) got amongst; the rabbits and the
last man was dismissed at 315—2 behind,
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : The recent case in Brisbane
when a N.S.W. official usurped the umpire’s
functions and declared that the abo. bowler
Gilbert was a thrower revives a contro-
versy as old as cricket, or at least one that
has flourished since overarm bowling was
allowed. Crossland and Mold in England,
and Ernie Jones of Australia 1 have been
among the fast bowlers “called” by the
umps. Slow and medium bowlers have had
tlieir turn, too, notably Jack Saunders and
Tom McKibbin, both Australians. F. G.
Bull, an Essex amateur of some note, was
an outstanding example in England, but
others were as plentiful as blackberries in
October
* * * *
“Kennington”: The old school of cricket
followers nearly went into convulsions when
the Prince of Wales, who is ground landlord,
leased the Oval, headquarters of Surrey
County and one of the regular Test-
match arenas, to “The Dogs.” These, how-
ever, will operate only at night, and it is
guaranteed that the electric-light fittings
will in no way interfere with the watching
of cricket. As a set-off, the Surrey G- C.
will get the ground free in future, the tin-
hare and the tykes finding the necessary
money to keep things going. The scheme
will find employment for some 600 extra
hands, a fact which had much to do with
the landlord’s consent to the scheme.
* * * £
“Torrens”: Grimmett’s eight wickets
against South Africa at Adelaide lifted liis
total for first-class cricket to 820. while for
South Australia his tally is 301, for an
average of 27.05. His chief successes for
the State have been against N.S.W., which
has contributed 86 victims to his bag. Vic-
toria’s quota is 66, Queensland’s 61 and
English teams 33. In Tests to date, the ex-
Maorilander has taken 76 wickets at a cost
of 32.17 apiece.
“Tenakoe”: The latest tour of England
by the All Black cricketers panned out more
profitably than was hoped for. Like its
predecessor the team was financed by a
limited liability concern known as N. Z.
Cricket. Ltd., but the first tour resulted in
a substantial loss. The last one, in spite
of experiencing a very wet season, cleared
enough to pay shareholders a dividend of
6 per cent, in addition to their money back.
* ❖ ❖
“Five Ways” : With the first Test due to
begin on November 27, Queensland cricketers
are wondering whether the State will gain
representation in the Australian side. The
only player whose record suggests his inclu-
sion is Oxenham. Another worth a trial is
Gilbert, but he is unlikely to get it, the
manager of the N.S.W. team recently in
Brisbane having told the listening earth that
the abo. fast bowler is a thrower. All through
last season Gilbert came under the eye of
Australia’s best umpires, and his action was
filmed in addition, no fault being found
with his delivery.
ste # * *
“Tenth Slip”: An interesting suggestion
as to inter-State matches was put forward
by the Westralian delegate to the inter-
state cricket conference which followed on
the meeting of the Board of Control recently.
This provides for the creation of two zones,
one embracing Westralia, South Australia
and Victoria and the other Tasmania,
N.S.W. and Queensland. The winners in
each zone would play a final in Sydney or
Melbourne. The teams from Tasmania and
Westralia would include the full cricketing
strength of those States, but in the case of
the others only players who had not taken
part in the Sheffield games would be eligible.
The idea has its good points, hut in view of
the congestion which exists in a season when
only Sheffield cricket is played, it would Do
very difficult to fit m_ the matches.. W ith
a visiting team m addition playing m aus-
tralia, anything of the sort is quite out or
the question.
(Continued on page 31.)
“Ride Off”: Curious that South Africa
has not figured more prominently in polo,
for the game was introduced by the British
garrisons of Natal and the Cape many years
ago and constantly played. It is on record
that Louis Botha long before the Boer War
used frequently to come down from his farm
near Vryheid, on the Natal border, and play
with the cavalry regiments at Pietermantz-
burg, which he was after to oppose m a
sterner field. However, the game has begun
to make headway in the past few years, and
the fourth annual tourney of the Transvaal
Polo Association, held at Pretoria recently,
drew a big entry. There should be a good
market among the Afrikanders for Aus-
tralian ponies, the country-bred article being
much below first-class standard as a rule.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: There seems no hope at all
of a meeting in Australia between led
Phelps, the professional sculling champion
of the world, and N. S. Wales oarsman
Alfred Burns. Ex-champion George Towns,
who has been conducting negotiations for
some time past, hoped that the race might
be fixed to coincide with the opening ot
the Sydney Harbor Bridge. He offered the
Englishman £3OO and all expenses, in addi-
tion to the stakes, if he would take Burns
on. Phelps says the brass isn’t enough and
"there the matter ends. It is hard luck on
Burns, a fine sculler, who has several times
challenged for the world’s championship,
only to be side-stepped for one reason or
another on each occasion.


mm
■XvlvXv:;:
811191
Sfiy i
M
m
m
- — m
The Ford Town Sedan
Go touring this Summer ... in
big car comfort, at lowest cost
With the Ford you travel iu big-car comfort at half the big car’s running costs.
đ
dd
I I
| FORD CARS|
jf TRUCKS AND |
| TRACTORS ARE |
I BRITISH EMPIRE |
| PRODUCTS I
Here’s generous power and strength for speed with safety over roughest roads; here’s roominess
and fine appearance; unusual mechanical reliability. In short, here’s Value far above the
Price
Seven distinguished passenger models from £2lB to £315 f.o.b. nearest
ď
Ford Works; Sales Tax extra
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
N.C.51
The Ins and Outs
The Queenslanders’ showing against N.S.W.
in the opening Sheffield Shield match of the
season at Brisbane can only be described
as abject. Collapsing on a good wicket in
their first innings and helping the Welsh-
men to run up a huge score by atrocious
fielding, they had to hold their second pro-
cession on a damaged pitch and went for 85
—beaten by an innings and 238. The young
Townsville lefthander, Sides, batted well to
carry his bat for 22 n.o. Hunt’s left-hand
bowling on a favoring wicket was a factor
in the collapse. He took 4 for 25, but the
calibre of the batsmen may be seen from the
fact that a second-rate slow bowler like
Campbell got 3 for 13. He was omitted,
in spite of that, from the N.S.W. side to
meet South Africa.
if !]! *
The game between South Africa and Vic-
toria went in favor of the home side, but
it must be said that the luck was with them.
Victoria started the second knock only 49
on, and on a wicket that was talking put up
91, lefthander O’Brien (37) being the only
man to look like a batsman’s bootlace against
Bell (3-19) and the lefthanders Quinn (3-
27) and Vincent (2-23). Much bucked and
with only 14.1 to get for a win, the Afri-
kanders hopped in for their second try. The
wicket, alas! was worse than ever: if
Ironmonger had specially ordered it for the
occasion, he could not have been better
fitted. The ex-Queensland mollyhander made
hay of the opposition, ending up with 5 for
21 in a total of 53. Fast-bowler McCor-
mack again did well, taking 2 for 13, and
Nagel, a newcomer to big cricket, made a
handsome debut with 3 for 8. The match
added to the growing conviction that on good
wickets or bad the ,springbok bowling is
much more formidable than was originally
anticipated.
❖ * :J: *
Tbe two big cricket matches last week —
those between Victoria and the South
Africans and Queensland and N.S.W. —
were eloquent of the fact that the modern
Australian batsman is absolutely incapable
on a sticky wicket, even when faced with
quite ordinary bowling. In the Melbourne
match, the South Africans certainly failed
on the ruined wicket; but they have had
little experience of such. Australians of
to-day, faced with pitches on which English
batsmen like Hobbs and Sutcliffe can score
confidently, instantly become rabbits. Watch-
ing the collapse of the Victorian side in the
second innings against the ’Boks, Cabbage
Garden old-timers must have sighed for the
days of Harry Graham and Jack Worrall,
who could make centuries on such pitches.
Similarly, Queensland, certainly not in the
same street as Victoria as a batting side,
lay down and died when facing the not at all
formidable N.S.W. bowling on a glue-pot
wicket. It is all, of course, a natural con-
sequence of the carefully doctored and ironed
pitches on which Australian players are
taught to perform to-day.
* * * *
“Torrens” : Tom Carlton, the veteran left-
hander who looked like bothering the South
Africans in the second innings of their
match against South Australia for a bit. has
had a fairly long ran. In the useful class
as a Victorian youngster, he went to Maori-
land with a relative over 20 years ago and
took a hand at coaching in Christchurch,
where he soon found himself playing for the
province in the Plunkett Shield. Coming
back to Australia, for a couple of seasons
he turned out for Victoria, until S.A.’s need
for a left-hand bowler to succeed Whitty
took him over to Adelaide. Though he has
never done anything sensational for the
Wheatfielders, he has proved distinctly
useful, his Sheffield figures up to the end of
last season showing 47 wickets at a cost of
32.34 runs apiece.
* * * if
“Kapunda”: A bowling record out of the
ordinary went up in South Australia
recently. For Paringa Park Howard East-
wick took 8 wickets for one run, 7 of them
in succession, bowling 5, getting one caught,
one l.b.w. and catching the other off his
own bowling. He bowls slow medium, and is
only a change trundler for his club. Good
as the performance was it has been beaten.
Eight wickets with successive deliveries have
been recorded no less than three times.
.Tames Walker performed the feat for a
Staffordshire club in 1882, and 20 years
later James Stebbing did the same for a Kent
organisation. The last occasion was in 1917,
when Private J. Leake brought off the trick
for the 9th Canadian Brigade against the
Canuck A.S.C. in France. Leake rubbed it
in by taking all the 10 wickets in 12 balls.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The proposal to hold the
Davis Cup matches every second year was
defeated when it came before the conference
of the Davis Cup nations, but it met with
good support. South Africa made the sugges-
tion and was backed by Australia, Argentina,
Chile, India and Maoriland among the
“faraways.” There was a solid little Euro-
pean block in support, including Britain,
Germany, Belgium, Italy, Sweden and
Switzerland. America threw all her weight
against the change and was backed by 19
others, the final voting against it being 20-13.
* * * *
“Baseline” : One aspect of the coming visit
of the Japanese tennis-players deserves:
attention; that is that the balls we use
are of much higher compression than those
adopted in the international matches in
other countries. Our visitors will be tried
hardly enough, seeing that they are expected
to be in action as soon as they get off
the boat, without being asked to play with
a type of ball to which they are unaccus-
tomed and on courts which will probably be
faster and fierier than any they have yet
experienced.
❖ $ i|:
“Cut Shot” : In a recent article Lacoste de-
livered himself of the opinion that France
will retain the Davis Cup for some years
to come. He must be rather sorry he spoke,
for one of the men he relied on to hold the
fort is Jean Borotra, whose retirement from
the game has just been announced. Lacoste
likes the young Americans better than the
new English contingent, but considers both
lots need some further experience in Davis
Cup tennis before they will become really
formidable. In spite of his reputation,
Lacoste is not convincing, for, in addition
to the now-unavailable Borotra, he relies on
Cochet and Brugnon to keep the fiag flying.
Among young players who may train on to
champion form lie likes Bernard pud Merlin
—Boussus seems to have faded out of the
picture.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: The recent action of a young
Victorian golfer in resigning an appoint-
ment in a sporting-goods house rather than
have his amateur status questioned has
renewed interest in the tangled rules regard-
ing what constitutes professionalism in golf.
A famous golfing identity of other days
once defined a professional as a player who
spits on his hands prior to taking a shot,
but we have gone far since those aristocratic
times. An attempt is to be made to grapple
with the question in Britain by the national
unions which represent the rank and file of
British golfers instead of leaving it, as in
the past, to the Rules Committee of St.
Andrews. One of the proposed innovations
classes all amateurs who write up golf for
the press as professionals!
* * * *
“Hotham”: The annual tourney for the
Melba Cup, which is fought out by Vic-
torian golferettes, was won by Vera Burgess
in the absence of the Australian champion,
Susie Tolhurst, who was unable to play
through illness, the winner returning a card
of 86. The trophy was presented only last
year by the late prima donna, and was won
the first time by Miss Tolhurst.
* * :\i
“Hamilton”: Queensland is famous for
the number of its A.I.F. golfing competi-
tions, and one of them, the Armistice Cup,
drew a big entry to Yeerongpilly course last
week. This is the seventh year that the
cup has been played for, and, according to
the wishes of the donor, J. E. Trade, it is
to be put up for 15 years. At the end of
that time, the club whose members have
scored the greater percentage of wins will
become the permanent holder. The 1931
winner was C. A. Fraser, who returned a
card of 71 net, his handicap being 18. The
best gross score of the day was 72, recorded
by J. N. Radcliffe and the professionals
J. R. Ouarton and T. R. Southcombe.
* * :!: *
“Muirfield”: Those humorless folk who
persist in prating about “style” as essen-
tial to winning games of golf have lately
been wildly excited by the advent on the
market of a new putter. This has a con-
cave face in place of the familiar .flattened
surface, and first caught the limelight when
Scottish-American Tom Armour won the
British open championship. One pundit,
commenting on the new tool, says that
“tests show clearly that a straight-faced
putter tends to scatter its shots, while a
slight concavity sends the ball along a line
parallel to the line of a centrally-struck
ball,” whatever that means. As a matter of
fact, a really • good player doesn’t „ worry
much about the clubs he uses —unless, like
Walter Hagen and other showmen, he has to
catch publicity with an elaborate Qufit. One
of the greatest amateurs Britain ever pro-
duced, John Ball, used to do his putting
with a cleek —a club I suppose few latter-day
players have ever seen, but one which for
general all-round utility is not paralleled
by anything in the golfbags nowadays.
* =l= *
“E.G.A.”: “Muirfield” (B. 21/10/’3l)
may have learnt his golf—as his sobriquet
implies—in the world’s oldest, school, but
he isn’t very observant. The unfortunate
thing about golf and its all-important
swing is that one can’t see one’s self doing
it. I suggest again that “Muirfield” isn’t
as observant as lie might be, or he would
have realised his heresy from watching the
play of Hattersley, Ryan, Wliitton, Sin-
clair and, very notably, Walter Hagen.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: When Percy Lambert drove his
Talbot car at Brooklands at nearly 104
m.p.h. he created an imperishable record, for
he was the first human being to cover 100
miles on land in GO minutes. His ear was a
four-cylinder one, rated at 4500-c.c. capacity,
and the run was made from a standing start.
His feat has been emulated in a fashion by
another Englishman, G. E. Eyston, who
recently drove a 750-e.c. Dunlop-tyred Mid-
get 101.1 miles in the time, the first
occasion on which the three-figure mark has
been beaten by a “Baby” car. The run
took place at Montlhery, and the little
machine signalised its own performance by
bursting into flames just after crossing the
finishing line and nearly burning its driver
to death.
sjr sj« t'fi
“Crank Case” : The cheap car is really get-
ting cheap, nowadays, and English makers,
who evolved the perambulator varieties, have
gone a step farther. English motorists are
waiting with interest for the appearance of a
new car which is to be marketed complete at
£B5. The jigger is rated at 7 h.p., and has
a horizontally opposed air-cooled two-cylinder
engine, mounted behind the rear axle. A
three-speed and reverse gear-box drives
through a short shaft to the axle. Trials
have been satisfactory. The car is not a
freak of the three-wliecled variety, but a con-
ventional open four-seater type able to face
any average requirement.
* * * *
“Kick Starter” : Jack Chapman, the South
Australian speedway rider, had a remark-
able trot in Melbourne the other night, com-
peting in six events and scooping in the lot.
The performance was all the better for the
fact that the Exhibition track was a strange
one to him, and that he was riding against
the pick of the Victorians, who consider
themselves in a class of their own at this
game. A few days previously, showing _at
the Wayville track, Chapman won everything
lie started in. He must be a rider out of the
ordinary.
“Sprocket” : Opperman got off the boat at
Fremantle to train with Lamb for West-
ralian cycling events. lie says the originator
and organiser of the Tour de France is con-
sidering an altered method of holding the
big race. His idea is to form an inter-
national team and race it against national
teams from France, Italy, Germany and
Belgium. Though complimented at the sug-
gestion that he should be included in the
international team, Opperman is not keen,
preferring to ride with his own countrymen.
Miscellaneous
“Swan”: One of the big men of Aus-
tralian rowing is George Rogers, of West-
ralia, who stroked the Westralian club four
that won the State championship recently.
Rogers won his first race in England 31
years ago, and is still in the first flight—
a rare happening. He has won State cham-
pionships by the bagful. In inter-State races
lie has stroked the State eight on six
occasions, beginning in 1030, his last appear-
ance being in 1923; while at Henley-on-
Yarra in 1925 he won the Stewards’ Chal-
lenge Fours with a Westralian crew. With
it all his rowing weight is only lOst. 41b.
* * * *
George Slade, a mighty man in All Black
football circles, passed through Sydney last
week on his way home after a jamboree at
the Melbourne Cup—the innocent Boy Scout
variety, be it said. Slade has held many offices
in the M.L. Rugby Union and was presi-
dent in 1921 when the Springboks toured
the Shivery Isles, while his last visit to
this country was with the All Blacks in the
year of gloom 1929, when the men of the
silver fern flopped in all three Tests against
Australia. A printer by trade, lie is the
producer of the admirable N.Z. Rugby
Union annual.


Perfect beauty
comes to your hair when the
rich, pure nourishment of Row-
land’s Macassar Oil gives it the
beauty of perfect health.
O f Chemists,
Stores and
H a i r d ressers,
3/6, 7/- and
10/6. Red for
dark hair,
golden for fair
or grey hair.
MancTs
Macassar Oil
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
J. H. & CO.
TO-DAY — TO-MORROW
Yesterday does not matter any more, but what you do to-day may
make or mar to-morrow. It is of no use repining about what shou
have been done—it is what lies to our hands now that really counts.
To an extent contemplation of yesterday may help, for everyone made
mistakes then, especially the errors of omission. Whatever of hardship
or disappointment they may have brought they have at least pointed a
lesson for us. To-day, now, is the time to do things, and this applies
especially to the thrifty accumulation of money. We cannot read our
needs for to-morrow but we can begin to provide for them.
There is no easier, better plan than the Commonwealth Savings Bank
provides.
Cbmmoiiwcaltb Saving JBankof Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
AUSTRALIAN
CANNED) FISH
X&shPQK
FLATHEAD or GARFISH
A NEW AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY.
A DELICIOUS PRODUCT.
-Mb. and lib. tins.
ORDER FROM YOUR GROCER!
Canned by the
Fishpac Co., Short St., Marrickville.
’Phone: Ll5Ol.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Red gowns and purple hoods, crimson and
yellow, black and the blue of the summer
sky billowed against the grey stone walls
when learning stood at pause to do honor
to the enduring wisdom of youth that gave
its life for an ideal. This was the most
impressive part of the Uni. commemoration
of Armistice Day—the procession that lined
the four sides of the Quadrangle, while from
the Carillon the sonorous, grief-stricken, hope-
lightened chords of Chopin’s “Funeral March’
were poured into the still air. One looked at
the elderly professors in the procession, and
thought how at the beginning of the war they
would have been upright men of middle age.
Now books aud time have bowed their
shoulders, and it is not only dignity calls tor
the sloav step: these saw well-loved youth
turn from its learning to face the hazard.
Many at this ceremony must have been mere
babies when the war started. Here were
girl undergrads., golden and brown of hair,
boys of not more than 19 or 20. Yet their
eyes were as solemn with thought during
those moments as the eyes of age.
In the Great Hall, previously, there had
been a memorial service, and as the hymns
had lifted and fallen like a low sorrowful
surf, the grief behind the notes sounded as
unending. But in the ante-room a clock
ticked —tick, tock —and time slipped on.
Strange to think that on some future day
—tick, tock; tick, tock—so many minutes
will have accumulated that the Great \V ar
will be as vague a thing as the Hundred
Years War, and a generation will arise
that knows Anzac only as something men-
tioned somewhere in a book.
The unveiling of the Honor Rolls on the
Avails of the archway beneath the Great.
Tower Avas a more spirited scene. Before the
archway gathered the princes of learning,
their raiment lending a touch of the medi-
eval; here flashed medal-brightened kliaki,
the blue and gold of the Navy, the horizon-
blue of the Air Force. The Glee Club sang
tlie University Memorial Hymn, a detach-
ment 50 men strong, of the Uni. Regiment
complete Avitli pipers formed the Guard ot
Honor, and, after the unveiling, buglers
standing in the archway between the Honor
Rolls sounded the Last Post and the Reveille.
At the Cenotaph on this the thirteenth
anniversary of the Armistice the croAvds
gathered in record numbers. Soon the Ceno-
taph Avas blazing Avith floAvers as wreath
after Avreatli, offering after offering to the
Spirit of Anzac, was massed upon it. lo
this came the Governor-General, the Gover-
nor, the Mayor and all in place and poAver.
Here came, too, the people who remember
and those Avho, too young to remember, yet
sorrow and glory in their country s sacrifice.
The Stratlinaver brought all of her 22,000
gleaming Avliite tons through the blue ot
Port Jackson on a heavenly morning last
week, and, having berthed at Circular Quay,
immediately got busy with the bar imple-
ments. On the day of her arrival there
was a monster lunch party, followed by a
late-afternoon cocktail interlude of • even
larger proportions.
The lunch was good—plenty of real food ;
nothing you couldn’t get at home, though
no home in the world, not even Buckingham
Palace or the Avliolesale carcase-butcher’s,
would have so many dishes on any one bill
of fare. This Letter sat at the captain’s
right hand, and once or twice flipped a
remark for the first time in her life to a
viscount. Earls and barons and baronets
she has known, but never a viscount. He
was “our right trusty cousin” Glenapp,
whose father, Lord Inclicape, is head and
front of all these floating P. and O. luxury
hotels. He is not very tall, is baldish above
the forehead, had spent the morning on
Manly beach arid is nicely shy—he quite
stammered in his after-dinner speech. But
the captain has blue eyes and the sort of
head and face you associate with the hard
rider. He is a Yorkshire lad (just the same
as Captain Cook) and he lives in Cornwall
for choice. He likes a dry wine, chocolates
to finish off his meal, his faA'orite liqueur is
creme de mentlie, he reads The Bulletin
and Conrad, and he looks as though he
might have a very iron hand in his velvet
glove.
The Stratlinaver has miles of deck burst-
ing with every comfort. One of the attrac-
tions is the writing-room, with its Queen
Anne chairs, upholstered in old-fashioned
brocades —parchment satin on which are gar-
lands of blue and pink flowers and blue
riband stripes. All tlic windows are em-
blazoned with heraldic devices and named
for Dryden, Shakspeare, Milton, and so on.
There’s a gym., complete with a mechanical
horse, an almost full-size tennis court, a
swimming pool, whose waters look like clear
jade. But it was left to the smoking-room
to give a new light on history. In it
there’s a wrouglit-iron grate similar to those
in Holyrood Castle. Looking at it one
understood why the Douglases and sucii
like on winter afternoons would tear along
passages and burst into rooms stabbing
people. They probably were trying to ge~
up a circulation. If poor Mary Queen ot
Scots had ever heard of central heating, Rizzio
might have lived to a ripe old age. Do you
remember how.
In the turret chamber high of ancient Holyrood,
Sat Mary listening to the rain, and sighing with
the wind....
It was a bitter, bleak day, tlic wrouglit-iron
grates were inadequate and probably the
chimneys were smoking. The Douglasses
went berserk with the cold and cut up.
Since the Lud Mayor’s party in honor of
the G.-G. and his lady, everybody has begun
to bob the knee when she says how do t
Miss iCrowdy and General Anderson’s wife
made quite a point of their knee-bending in
the crowded Town Hall, so now Mrs.
Suburbia knows what is expected even though
our G.-G. is Australian made. Lady Isaacs s
frock glinted with amber light; it was built
of chiffon and embossed velvet on formal
lines to suit the impressive party, seemingly
thousands strong.
The ballroom ran to banks of tropical
palms, and swinging between the pillars of
the balcony were gold baskets tilled with
pink roses. The rooms along the corridor
outside the ballroom were turned into card
and smoke snuggeries, gay with lacquered
tables and chairs. The dressing was the
best seen for the last year. Women arrived
swaying the long ostrich feather fan of the
moment. These fans are of vivid hue,
one beauty in the hands of a primrose-
frocked unknown running from deepest rose
to a petal pink tip. Lady Game’s vellum
chiffons were flower-spattered, and the
Mayoress draped a black and white scart
with telling effect over her lustrous black
satin. The G. : G.’s daughters, Mrs. Sefton
Cullen and Mrs. David Cohen, were there
with their husbands, Mrs. David Cohen in
a girlish frock of mist-blue tulle, very full
as to skirt, and high as to waist. Mrs. Sep
Levy was the mould of form in a metal
cloth woven of black and platinum threads.
The Gibb couple, Lady Game’s uncle and
aunt, she in a black frock heavily overlaid
with gold, were among the crush; so was
the white-satin-clad Miss another
guest at Government House. All the Con-
suls exchanged politenesses.
Supper —nothing to give you nightmare.
This is Mrs. Bruche, wife of Major-
General Bruche, who before her husband’s
appointment as chief of the Australian Gen-
eral Staff in
Melbourne
was one of the
most popular
o f Sydney’s
military host-
esses. II e r
f r i e n dlincss
and gift for
ente. r taining
will be under-
stood by Dig-
gers when it
is explained
.that she is
“Old ‘ Brig.”
Ryri e ’ s
sister. Major-
General
Bruche, who
was a Vic.
lawyer before
lie became a
soldier, is
among t h e
scholars in the service, and he lias a terrific
capacity for work. Photo from Falk.
The popular wife of Brig.-General Wis-
dom, Administrator of the Territory of New
Guinea, died last week, after an illness which
lasted since May of last year. In that
month, to the horror of her friends through-
out Australia, Mrs. Wisdom had to suffer
the amputation of both legs, because of some
deep-laid trouble with the arteries in her
feet. Mrs. Wisdom was a Scots girl, and
after marriage lived for many years in West-
ralia. She had a fine record of war work,
both in Egypt and London —did anything
that came to her hand; one day she was a
parlormaid in Princess Christian’s Red Cross
Hospital, secretary to the Commandant of
the Australian Red Cross in London the
next. Government House at Rabaul under
her rule was a magnetic place; one of her
greatest works there was the building up
of a circulating library for the book-lovers
of her husband’s outpost.
Mrs. De Romera, Lebby Hordern’s first
wife, is back in Sydney; as with nearly all
the rushing-back Australians, her visit is
mainly a matter of finance. Even the Lebby
Hordern estate of £250,000 is said to be
showing shrinkage these times, and Mrs.
De Romera’s alimony must be quite a heavy
item As soon, however, as she and her
solicitor, C. P. White, can get through the
business which brought her all the way from
Spain, she will return to the South ot
France, where her husband and son, young
Lebby Hordern, just starting to be an
engineer, will await her. When Lebby is
18 —and that will be in a few months’ time
—he will inherit a million or so under his
grandfather’s will, and will enter Cambridge.
Mrs. De Romera, who was Olga Monie, is
staying with her mother at Narrabeen. Her
home Is in Madrid. . .
The story goes that one K.C., driving along
New South Head-road, saw a brother K.C.
waiting for a tram. He drew up alongside,
and “Hop in!” he said. But just then
law, in the shape of a plain, unstriped con-
stable, hopped out to the roadway. “Beg
pardon, sir,” it said, “but you can’t offer
a lift to anyone waiting for a tram.” And
Mr. Lang’s Transport Act scored another
" Here’s Bonita Appleton, just back from
Hollywood, where she spent five months
mixing with stars, meeting Snowy Baker,
who’s a crack
polo-player out
there, seeing
Greta Garbo
in tense scenes
from “Susan
Lennox,” and
seeing her, off
the lot, a very
sprightly, act-
i v e person.
Bonita, who,
like sister
Pearl, was one
of Sydney’s
best amateurs,
followed Pearl
to America,
and walked
straight into
a part o n
Broadway.
She played
the ingenue
lead in “The
Silent Witness,” wliile sister was playing,
also on Broadway, tlic Second Mrs. Fraser
in the play of that name. Now Pearl hopes
to get a part in one of the Metro-Goldwyn
productions in Hollywood, the same address
being Bonnie’s aim as soon as she can get
in on the quota.
The Bulletin’s pink cover is put to
many uses; but until last week this Letter
had never known it to be cut up into con-
fetti. It happened up in the far Nor-West,
and the bride was tlic daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. G. I. Beard, he a missioner m the
remotest Kimberleys. Bridegroom I red
Merry was the nearest white neighbor or
the Beards; he came the 60 miles by camel
and carried off the 19-year-old bride on the
same make of car. Everything needed had,
of course, to be made at the missioner s
camp —including, as before mentioned, the
confetti.
Mrs. Herrick Knowles, who has been stay-
ing on the Riviera, writes that she has been
visiting the Maurice Chevaliers. Maurice
lives with liis mother and the wife he adores
in a delightful home outside Nice. He is
very quiet and domesticated, and he plays
bowls, and during tlic Australian’s visit lie
had just signed a contract to go to America
to do four or six pictures for a contemptible
£200,000. The new Casino at Monte Carlo,
with its series of terraces, lit with great
silver sconces and opening on to the tumbling
blue of the Mediterranean, still excites Mrs.
Knowles’s, admiration. There’s a floating
stage for the vaudeville and acrobat turns,
and the performers are taken out in snow-
white launches. After each turn there is
no curtain, just a blackout.
The Strathnaver seems to have brought
whole strings of notabilities, judging by those
lines of small photos the daily press loves
to publish. One wonders if the celebs, really
know they’re going to be pictorially among
the “others present,” or if, deluded by the
camera man’s urgency, each sees herself
reproduced at least quarter-page. These
small pictures play the mischief with hat
outlines —they always chop off the interesting
angle. Mrs. Norman Lowe gazed pensively
out from one of these narrow casements. She
proudly claims to be the first Australian
woman to lecture to the Natural History
Society of London. An interesting English
visitor who came by the Strathnaver was
the wife of Sir Stanley Stow. She is keen
on the emancipation of Indian women, and
was president of the Purdah Association and
the Girl Guide Movement in the Punjab.
With her are her two schoolgirl daughters,
Cynthia and Mary, who have been great
companions for Viscount Glenapp’s sturdy
15-year-old Patricia.
In David Jones’s gallery the Women.
Painters’ show lias filled the walls with
water-colors and oils of varying degree.
The exhibits number over 200, and on a
day midway through last week the place
looked as though it would never be straight-
ened out for Friday. One of the best bits
of grouping is “Finishing Touches’ a class
of small girls tiptoe in their ballet shoes,
slim bodies rising above spreading skirts.
Elaine Coglan’s landscapes are alluring, and
Gladys Owen’s reflective calm and Ethel
Stephens’s vivid coloring are attractive lea-
tures. Mavis Mallinson is responsible tor
two fine bits of sculping.
Two of the city’s big rag firms were
united in a true-love knot last week when
Joan Grace married Ken McCatlne at S..
Michael’s, Vaucluse. The bride made the
style of her frock fit the material. this
was a lustrous weave called peau-de-V emis,
and the wedding frock was cut on classical
lines. The three maids in anemone pmk were
like Watteau shepherdesses, with their high
waists and long pleated skirts and their
jaunty little hats bunched up .with ribbon.
Joan is the third daughter of the A. E.
Graces, and at their Rose Bay home the
subsequent reception occurred r uture
address will be next door to bride s old home.
Brisbane’s brief: —
The trimmed bowler was much in evidence at
the Cup meeting. Lady Goodwin came out on
Derby afternoon with Mrs. lv. Puckle, of Too-
woomba. Her Ex. was in ashes-of-roses
marocain, and a rose cendree bat. Mrs. i uekle
was in grey, with plisse flounces and a vermilion
hat. The Premier’s wife chose chocolate crepe-de-
Chine jacket over a rose silk with brown hat;
the Blair lady was in yellow crepe de Chine, and
black and beige hat. Claire Macrossan was with
her in pink broderie anglaise.
Lady Goodwin went to Sandgate to the sixth
annuai birthday party at the C.W.A. seaside home
at Linga Longa. There she christened the new
dormitory the Ruth Fairfax, after the first president
of the 0.W.A., and the lounge after Mrs. W. A.
Jolly, late Mayoress of Brisbane.
The Hugh Brandon and Eunice Cochrane recital
in the Teachers’ Hall was well attended. Ernest
Edmonston and Hugh Brandon opened the ball with
violin and piano and Arthur Boyle s string-band
backgrounded. Miss Cochrane sang Handel songs.
In the audience were Mr. and Mrs. L. D. M. Purkiss,
Mesdames J. T. Corrigan, W. S. Anderson, M.8.E.,
Nancy White, Elspeth Capper, Mabel Zillman,
Victoria Blakey and other music-lovers.
Redvers Kemp, of Toowoomba, married Enid,
daughter of the C. H. Skinners, of Coolangatta, in
St. John’s Cathedral. The bride, who was given
away by her father, was in beige mariette with a
peach cellophane hat. Blue chiffon fleurette was worn
by bridesmaid Mona Skinner. The Hotel Canbeira
saw the feasting, Mrs. Skinner receiving in black
mariette and Chantilly. A motor tour of the South
is the ’moon.
There was a fancy-dress evening at the Womens
Club for Guy Fawkes Day, and a typical Australian
Guy Fawkes with a riddled kerosene-tin collected
pennies for the Social Service League. Mrs. Trit-
ton dressed as Marie Antoinette, received the guests.
“Lalla Rookh,” Kate, from “On Our Selection,”
“Becky Sharp,” Lot’s wife and Delilah were some of
the impersonations. Victoria Blakey arranged the
music.
The Royal Queensland clubbers had a bridge
evening to raise paint for the interior of their
building. Bowls of larkspurs, snapdragon, roses and
African daisies decorated. Mrs. Overell was in prune
mariette and Chantilly lace, Mrs. R. H. Cumming
wore pearl-grey, Mrs. E. J. McGuiness sage-green,
Mrs. Victor Campbell autumn-tinted crepe de Chine,
and Jean McTaggart chose bottle-green.
Knight Edward Macartney opened the new official
showrooms of the Queensland forestry service in
George-street, and spoke of the growing demand
in London for Queensland timbers. The show-
window has a red mahogany parquetry floor, and
tulip, oak and satinay are used for the floorage
of the building. Photographs of Queensland forests
are hung on the walls, and there are specimens of
every known timber. Twenty years ago the ex-Agent-
General laid the foundation of the forestry service.
Tassie’s P.S.: —
Margot Hutchison’s young friends farewelled her
at many parties before her start for the Cold Coun-
try. She is to be married on her arrival in London
to Dr. Phil Bowden.
Gwen, pretty and popular daughter of Mr. and the
late Mrs. Silas Tinning, announces her engagement
to J. D. Hood.
The Public Schools contingent from Britain had a
great time in the Speck, with many bush and
mountain expeditions. The Mayor gave them a chic
welcome, and the Royal Society entertained them.
Connie Cummins, for 10 years editress of the
“Illustrated Tas. Mail,” has resigned the job to
join the family in Brisbane, where her father is
general manager of the “Telegraph.” J. E. Thorp,
of the “Mercury” staff, will take her place.
Passed out, mourned by numerous friends, Sister
Jean Campbell, of St. Helen’s Hospital. She was
a fine personality and an expert nurse.
The Tas. Turf Club held its holiday race
meeting for charity at Mowbray course, Launceston.
Some summer frocks made a timid appeal ance and
got off with it. Among the throng were the W. F.
Archers the H. P. Harrissons, Dr. Geo. Clemons,
Mr. and Mrs. Wilks and daughter Josephine, the
Andrew Raeburns, Mr. and Mrs. Alan Stewart, the
R. C. Fields, Mr. and Mrs. Alec Boyes, Mr. and
Mrs. i’ulloch Scott, the Frank Lakins, the Geo. Canns,
Mr. and Mrs. Charlie Gunn, Misses Von Steiglitz,
Lorna Bartlett and Joan Hirst.
Mrs. Jim McCutcheon (formerly Gwen Ward) is
on her way out to the Speck on a visit to her
brother, Mr. E. Ward. Dr. Jim McCutcheon was
one of the heroes in the Vindictive at Zeebrugge,
and has lately retired from the R.N.
Miss Doris Gaggin has returned after three years
spent in the Cold Country and various European
cities.


Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: RUDDIGORE
CRITERION: AS HUSBANDS GO.
T C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: OH, LADY, LADY!
With DOROTHY BRUNTON
(Commencing 21st November).
Bad Immigrants to Australia.
This important subject is considered in last
Saturday’s leading article in “The Barrier
Miner,” the newspaper published twice every’
day at Broken Hill.
The people of the city of Broken Hill and
the Far West arc kept well informed on all
matters of great public importance by their
favorite daily newspaper. The only daily the
country people read or need to read. Over
43 years old now. A great medium for
advertisers, too.
THE BEST EVER.
The Christmas Mirror
December 15 3d.
SERIALS
ARTICLES
PICTURES
VERSE
SHORT STORIES
BETWEEN OURSELVES
NEEDLEWORK
GIFTS IDEAS
SUPERB ILLUSTRATIONS.
SOMETHING IN IT FOR EVERY WOMAN
DECEMBER 15 3d.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
1 TO RICHARD PREST PARDOE MATTHEWS
whose last known place of abode was at Leichhardt
Street Fortitude Valley Brisbane in the State of
Queensland French Polisher but whose present where-
abouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane in the State of Queensland No. 503
of 1931 by Lilliam Melva Matthews your wife in
which she claims a dissolution of her marriage with
you and by her Petition filed in the said Court
she alleges that in or about the month of August
one thousand nine hundred and twenty-five you
without cause deserted her and have so deserted her
continuously for'five years and upwards prior to the
date of such petition. And it has been ordered
that service of the Writ of Summons and Petition
on you be effected by filing and sticking up on
the Notice Board in the Registry of the said Court
at Brisbane copies of Writs and an office copy of
the said Petition and by the publication of this
notice in the! “Brisbane Courier” and “The Worker”
newspapers in the State of Queensland and in the
Sydney “Bulletin’' in the State of New South
Wales. If you desire to defend this action you must
within thirty-eight days from the date of the last
act done as aforesaid enter an appearance at the
Registry aforesaid and in default of such appearance
iudgment may be entered against you.
Dated this eleventh day of November. 1931.
D. M. O’FLYN N,
Deputy Registrar.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
A crowd of 1500 well-to-do citizens bidden
to inspect the Strathnaver streamed up and
down stairways fi’om sports deck to the
deepest interior, and then discovered that,
in addition to all the other amenities of a
skyscraper pub, the monster has lifts. The
amount of deck space for dancing and sports,
and that taken up by the verandah cafe or
closed in for cards or chat, is tremendous.
But with nine floors and a basement the
Strathnaver flats can afford to be liberal
with space. There are acres of panelling
in ash, sycamore and oak, and the place
abounds in smoke-rooms, reading-rooms and
other lounges. There’s a .beautiful writing-
room panelled in dark wood with chairs
upholstered in glazed linen patterned in
pink roses with a bright-blue stripe. The
large lounge, in which the decorative motifs
are Italian, has buff-colored walls, pillars
of lapis-lazuli blue and ornate dadoes. Light
filters through opalescent glass in ceiling and
walls. The swimming-bath water is thought-
fully kept warm. Boxes placed about the
decks marked “Cigafette butts here” suggest
that the owners have a tidy mind, an impres-
sion that is intensified when one learns that
some of the three huge yellow funnels, which
are dummies, are receptacles for baggage
and the carpenters’ and painters’ stores.
On arriving here the ship was presented
by the Clan Mackay, of Vic. with a brass
plate to commemorate its maiden voyage to
Australia. The connection is that James
Lyle Mackay, otherwise Lord Inchcape, is
chairman of the P. and O. Co. Donald
Mackay, chief of the Vic. Mackays, handed
over the memento to the accompaniment of
a skirl of pipes. The gift is now placed
beneath a splendid stag’s head above the
main stairway.
The mid-week race meeting at Caulfield
was blessed by beautiful weather, not too cool
for light gowns nor too hot for tailored
suits. Even the thrips felt the charm and
took a holiday, leaving the cinerarias to
blossom unmolested, and rhododendrons,
snapdragons and azaleas to glorify the lawns
with splashes of color. There was a very fair
attendance. Mrs. Ben Chaffey had a pretty
black-and-white chip-straw hat above ninon
patterned in grey and white. Mrs. A. V.
Hiskcns, who was with her sister Miss Cox,
wore an ensemble of sapphire blue and a
matching hat lined with white. Mrs. Norman
Robinson chose black and white. Mrs. Dun-
can McPherson’s black gown had a beige
pink vest and she wore a large black hat.
Mrs. Sprigg, in a magpie effect, and Mrs.
Vaughan Cutteii, whose blue suit was allied
to a grey straw hat, were among visitors
from Adelaide, and from Sydney came Mrs.
Murray Heffernan and Yvonne Linton.
Among Melbourne women who watched the
racing were Mrs. J. MacMillan, Muriel
Campbell, in grey light tweed • Lucy Rowe,
all in fawn; Mrs. Rogers Thomson and
Kathleen, and Mrs. E. ,W. Cox and her
daughter, Mrs. Ricker.
Williamstown Racing Club had bad luck
with the weather for its Cup meeting, a
threatening sky releasing pelting showers of
rain towards the end of the day. Secretary
Nagle, who has been conducting a strenuous
campaign against the thrip, had a fine show
of sweet-peas and antirrhinums. In the
mounting yard the gold cup was carefully
guarded from spots of rain until it was handed
to E. Lee Steere, whose gee-gee Second Wind
won him the trophy for the second time.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine had lunch with the
committee. His daughter Mrs. lan Hayward,
of Adelaide, came with him, wearing black
and white check suit and black hat; Ursula
Barr Smith, also of S.A., was a member of
the party. Mrs. J. J. Liston, wife of the
chairman, came along, also Mrs. J. Fell and
her daughter Mrs. J. Crespin, the last-
named in navy-blue georgette gown and small
straw hat. Mrs. W. P. Mein had a touch
of yellow brightening her black gown and
millinery, and Mrs. J. F. Nagle was in
black and white. Mrs. Percy Blackbourn
chanced the rain in a pretty georgette frock,
floral-patterned in orange and brown, allied
to a honey-colored straw hat. Among speci-
ally invited guests were the Premier and
Mrs. Hogan, in a black suit with a shiny
chip straw hat bound about with a black
and white ribbon. Mrs. Ivan Gutmann,
Frank Stapley and his wife and Mrs. J. B.
McArthur were there. The chairman of
the Bendigo Racing Club, J. H. Lienhop,
was a visitor.
A dance was staged at Scott’s on Friday
night in aid of the Queen Victoria Hospital.
Mrs. B. Cox, robed in fine black lace, shep-
herded the girls who organised the jolly hop,
and Mrs. Byram Gowan, junior, who was
in black georgette, ran a flower stall with
several charming assistants. Secretarial
duties were divided between Margaret Raws,
whose gown was satin of oyster tint, and
Barbara Syme, who danced in ivory-toned
moire. Other members of the committee were
Yvonne Cox, in frock of pale primrose hue,
and Tempe Falkiner, who favored the same
shade.
There was a dance aboard the cruiser
Canberra on Friday night. Commodore b.
S. Holbrook and Captain Farquhar Smith
and officers Of the ship were hosts. Among
the guests was the new laid Mayor, Dr.
Gengoult Smith. Mrs. Farquhar Smith
danced in ninon that blended tints of green.
Mrs. E. C. Rhodes sported lace of wine-red
hue. Mrs. Simon Fraser, Commander G.
F. Langford and his daughter Mollie and
Commander and Mrs. O. Ireland were
others who' attended.
The installation of our new Lud Mayor,
Dr. Gengoult Smith, was the occasion of a
dinner in the concert hall of the Town
Hall, to which 600 sat down. The chief
table, like a great boomerang, was at the
head of the room in front of the stage,
which was arranged as a garden full of beds
of gay calceolarias, backed by a green hedge
that reached to the keyboard of the organ.
Baskets of pansies and mixed blossoms centred
the many round tables in the body of the
hall.
At Christ Church, Hawthorn, Dorothy,
daughter of Thomas Thompson, of ’West-
ralia, exchanged vows with Dr. Noel Wil-
liams, a son of Mrs. M. H. Williams, Haw-
thorn. Chantilly lace cascaded over the
bride’s white satin gown, and her attendant
’maid, whose blue hat matched the del-
phiniums she carried, wore lace of soft
amber hue.
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel was
the scene of the knot-tying of Beryl, elder
daughter of Mrs. Finney, of Malvern, and
James, .son of Mr. and Mrs. S. J. Wilcox,
of Queensland. The bride wore a frock of
pale-grey chiffon and a straw hat to match,
and carried a sheaf of yellow roses. Her
sister Betty, who attended her, favored a
similar color scheme, her gown being of
ninon.
Though his parents have been residents in
Melbourne for several years, pianist Ray-
mond Lambert, pictured here by Spencer
Shier, retains
his nationality
as a Belgian.
He was forced
some time ago
to go back to
his native land
to put in his
term as a con-
script, intend-
ing to return
here immedi-
ately he had
fulfilled his
obligation. He
managed to
find time for
musical study
in his home-
land. and gave
n recital in the
C o nservatoire
Royal at
Liege, as a
result of which
Ire was engaged for a concert tour with the
Belgian tenor Armand Crabbe, so it will be
some months before he rejoins his family.
Mrs. J. A. Newell, a member of the Poetry
Reading Circle, gave a garden party at her
home at Kooyong. Isabel H'andley’s play
in verse, “The Garden Party,” and some
Shakspearean scenes were performed by some
of Eileen O’Keefe’s students; the hostess
read the poem “Maid Marian,” by Francie
Laurie, and “The Judgment of Paris” was
enacted by the Dalcroze pupils of Thelma
St. John George.
Old Ruytonians met at a garden party in
the grounds of their old school at Kew.
There were bazaar stalls to help the scholar-
ship fund. Mrs. H. Gunn was elected presi-
dent in place of Mrs. Leslie Vance. Hilda
Daniel, the principal, gave greeting to the
old girls.
The championship tourney of the Ladies
Bowling Association brought forth many
entries, the players looking cool and capable
in all-white attire brightened with club
colors. Mr.s. J. S. Winter, who has been
hon. sec. of the association for 14 years,
was again at the helm.
At a physical-culture display and show
of students’ art and craft work held at
Mandeville Hall, guests included Premier
Hogan’s wife, Mrs. T. J. Ryan, Mrs. Finn
and" her sisters Amy and Eileen Castles,
Mrs. P. Lucini, Mrs. Donaldson and Mrs.
Clarence Marriott.
Mrs. H. L. Setchell, wife of the British
Trade Commissioner, hostessed a farewell
luncheon at the Quamby Club to Mrs. E. T.
Crutchley, whose husband, is the British
Government representative in Australia, a a
who is off to England with him and then
daughter Enid, making a halt m West-
ralia for some weeks.
Following a long-established custom, the
Wirths put on a matinee circus performance
for members of the Friendly Unions of
Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Wives and Mothers.
There was a tremendous roll-up, and both
children and grown-ups had a good time.
The Irvine lady was there, and was »iven
a welcoming posy, Mrs. W. A. Coxen being
likewise honored. Thanks were returned to
the Wirths by Major-General Coxen.
At the Music Club’s soiree violinist Con-
stance Zeibell, in fluffy pale green draperies,
joined pianist Roy Shepherd in sonatinas by
Schubert and Dvorak, and a sonata by
This Ruskin picture presents Mrs. Riehaid
Lawrance, not
long since
Dorothy Rus-
sell, eldest
daughter of the
George Rus-
sells, of Too-
rak. She has
been to the
fore in many
charity move-
ments, and as
president of
the younger
members of
the Country
W omen’s
A s s o ciation
she has been
responsible for
some ener-
get i c efforts
on behalf of
the families
out back. . .
The Alfred Hospital’s King Competition,
won by Robert Knox, who ?ide-stepped a
coronation ceremony, brought in £*6oo. Ren
Chaffey was the runner-up.
J M. Synge’s “The Shadow of the Glen
and' the Quintero brothers’ “The Women
Have Their Way” were put on by
the youthful members of the Standard
Players’ Society under Eileen O Iveete s
direction. The Irish piece gave. Moya Carey
a chance to air a delightful brogue. Ihe
gay Spanish comedy was picturesquely
dressed, there being a great show of lace
mantillas.
Mrs. F. Ritchie and her son Captain J.
C. Ritchie arrived by the Stratlinaver to
spend some months in this city. Ihe lady
is the widow of Frank Ritchie, for
several years managing director in London
for the P. and O. Co. She has taken a
flat at Coronado Court, St. Kilda-road.
The wife of Captain B. J. Ohlson, captain
of the Stratlinaver, is a daughter of the late
Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Sayer. of Geelong. She
graduated at Melbourne Uni.
Mrs. Byron Moore and her daughters,
Mrs. Gordon and Linda, have returned from
a two-year tour of Europe, and are at
Menzies’. '
Mrs. Charlie Lyon has returned after a
lengthy sojourn in England and on the Con-
tinent while her three daughters were at
school in Paris. Mrs. J. F. Dodds, mother
of Mrs. Lyon, came home with the party.
Gardeners and fruitgrowers are encounter-
ing a host of insect pests this season. Thrips
are devastating the strawberry beds', and
attacking all flowers, particularly roses
and pansies. Encouraged, apparently, by
these allies, every sort of beetle, slug .and
caterpillar is working overtime. Last
summer we had a glut of strawberries;
this year it looks as if we’ll have to take
our cream without ’em. The. Flemington
racecourse gardeners strove heroically to pre-
serve some flowers for the Cup meeting.
The hothouses have been guarded against in-
truders as vigilantly as Phar Lap, and with
some success, but the sentry duty on the
open beds is a heart-breaking task.
Fellow-painters and other arty folk gave
a welcome home to Louis McCubbin on his
return from Queensland. The artist has been
doing pictures of the scenery of the Barrier
Reef.
The Chatterer halted the other day before
a shop window in which was displayed the
last word in gloves—long black . ones of
suede with bits of pink kid let in about
the arms. In some cases the top was
slashed in places to show the flesh hue
beneath. Stitchings of pink decorated the
backs in the usual way. Also there were
gloves to match every gown, and a regular
deluge of lace mittens of every hue.
The Travellers’ Aid Society at its annual
summing-up had to announce the first deficit
in its history—a little over £l5O. The
year’s work included help extended to 9126
travellers, and the hostel doors were ever
open to help women and children. Linda
Byron Moore has taken on the duties of hon.
sec.
Stonington, the home of State Governors
for many years,' has been leased for three
years by Dora Gipson as an adjunct to St.
Margaret’s girls’ school, Malvern. Miss
Gipson lias also established a country bond-
ing school at Berwick. She has under-
taken to keep the garden and grounds of
Stonington in order. The furniture winch
is valued at about fi2,000, will be stored.
In “The Merry Widow,” at the Royal.
Dot Brunton dresses the name part in white
lace, swansdown, chiffon and rhinestones,
like a frosted Christmas-card. In tue second
act she wears the gold and black national
dress of Marsovia. In the final act she dis-
cards the cartwheel black hat that made, a
fashion when the show was new in favor ot a
glistening coronet, her trained gown being
of pale gold velvet *with a backless area
crossed with shaded roses. Evening gowns
modelled on the latest lines are worn by, the
feminine members of the cast, and Maxim s
has been furnished with a balcony and a
central staircase.
Just returned from a tour of the Tj.S.A.,
the W. Camerons, of Maeedon, have taken
a flat at Cliveden Mansions. Mrs. Cameron
is a sister of Mrs. Murray Morton, who for
the last year or so lias lived at Maeedon.
South Australia tiptoes in:—
The ball held on board the new P. and O. liner
Strathnaver netted about £340 for the Mission
to Seamen. The sale of tickets was limited—a
waiting-list of 150 had to be turned down. His
Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven, with the Premier and
his wife, dined on board and were present at the
dance. So vast is the boat that hundreds who
had anticipated meeting never saw one another, the
whole evening. Mr. F. A. Lakeman, the piime
mover in all things connected with the Mission,
was delighted at the results. Thousands visited the
boat on the following day, when the admission
charges went to the cause.
Geraldine (“Biddy”), daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Gerald Cowle, of Watford, England, South Australians
who have resided for some years abroad, will shortly
marry George Pedersen Krag, of Schenectady, Npw
York. A few years ago the bride-to-be spent a
holiday in Adelaide with her grandmother, Mrs.
Harry Ayers.
Two bridge parties were held at the Town Hall
last week in aid of the Kindergarten Union. A new
idea, a buffet afternoon-tea, with supper in an
adjoining room, proved thoroughly popular.
Lady Hore-Ruthven gave a large at-home at
Government House, where the guests included all
the Adelaide women prominent in social work. Their
Exes, received on the lawn, jmd tea was seived
in the dining-room and ballroom. A host of willing
workers for charity was there, the Salvation Army
being among the organisations represented. Lady
Hore-Ruthven wore a yellow and pink chiffon con-
fection with a wide-brimmed hat.
There is to be a bridge party to raise funds for
securing serum for the treatment of infantile
paralysis. Every table has been booked at the
Piccadilly Cafe, and the Liberal Hall has been
engaged for the overflow.
Westralia’s mail: —-
For the wind-up of their season, Mount Yorkine
Golf Club associates spent most of the day on the
links and danced or bridged for most of the night.
Clarkias made a pink cloud in the supper-room of
the clubhouse, and Iceland poppies bloomed in the
reception-rooms. For the dance Mrs. Walter Hardy
changed her golf togs for lobelia-blues; Mrs. Roy
Saw held her curly mop of hair above flowery
georgettes; Nora Hassell’s ninon ran to bronze
tones and her sister wore black lace ; over her pink
chiffons Mrs. Douglas wore a blue fur-edged coatee ;
Mrs. Hall was in red; Pam Townley wore the pink
of a summer sunset; Mrs. Geoff Grieves chose
larkspur-shaded satin; Mrs. A. J. H. Wilson slipped
a blue coat over her black lace frock; Mollie Lloyd’s
shell-pink gown was fanciful with narrow flares
about the hip-line; Mrs. P. Hardy wore black; Jean
Lang chose floral chiffons, Tup Turner green, and
Marjorie Howlett black lace.
Barbara, younger .daughter of the Arthur Male
couple of King’s Park-road, has become engaged to
John Rawdon Macnamara. The prospective ’groom
grows wool on the Murchison.
Dora Camm, of Claremont, is betrothed to Linley
Barton, eldest son of the late Mr. Campbell Wilson
and Mrs. Campbell Wilson, of Adelaide.
The spoil of many gardens went to decorate the
Karrakatta Club for its annual at-home. Retiring
president Mrs. Mervyn Griffith and newly-elected
president Mrs. S. J. Anderson did the honors, each
choosing a gown of black lace. Miss Northmore,
clad in pomegranate georgettes, was escorted by the
Kerr-Pearse couple. Liza Lehmann’s “In a Persian
Garden,” sung by Beth Johnston, Desma Eastmon,
Theo Meugens and George Haywood, was particu-
larly well received. Jean Norman and David Powell
also had gems to offer.
As Mollie Robinson’s wedding day draws nigh the
pretty lass is the guest of honor at many parties.
Joy Hill was a recent hostess who invited a bevy
of maidens to bridge in a larkspur- and rose-filled
drawing-room. Mollie is the eldest daughter of the
late Mr. R. T. Robinson, a former Attorney-General
and Minister for Mines, and Mrs. Robinson.
The Victoria League held its annual social after-
noon in National House, when Mrs. Kerr-Pearse
spoke upon the history and objects of the league.
Mrs. Cecil Mason, wearing an attractive blue frock,
arranged the musical programme, to which Irene
Stancliffe, Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Alan Wilson con-
tributed. Miss Stancliffe was in tobacco-brown
marocain, Mrs. Taylor wore neatly-pleated navy
blue and Mrs. Wilson wrestled with the decayed
piano in a cool linen garment.


đ
’Hive, (3eJ
O'f' <-411
Choose “ Swan ” Pens and
you can be quite sure that
the presents you are giving
this year will meet with
everybody’s approval.
“ Swans ” combine dignity
with real utility. They are
handsome in appearance and
are famed for their reliable
service. The range of patterns
is so extensive as to permit
your choice to be very exacting.
THE GUARANTEED
&WAN
PEN
MADE IN ENGLAND
BLACK or MOTTLED "SWANS" from 20/-
COLOURED "SWANS" - - from 22/6
"Fyne-Poynt" Pencils to match - from 8/6
"Blackbird" Pens - - - from 10/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated list post free
MABIE, TODD & Co., Ltd., Swan House, London, W.l.
Factories : London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
d
=:■ rtir,:FiLLi*c P * N
SWO S \ c :
EfAl
The Threshold.
ANOTHER TALE OF THE ’LOO BY MARGARET FANE AND
HILARY LOFTING.
PASSING rich—practically the king of
the ’Loo, lie felt—the boy .Timmo took
his three ha’pence into Marty’s shop.
It was early, and Jimmo seemed to leave
the fresh beauty of the morning behind him
in Brazier-street, exchanging it for the
shop’s twilit silence. Marty emerged from
the shadows at the back and came down to
Jimmo at the counter without breaking the
silence. His eyes, haggard and unsmiling,
looked interrogatively at Jimmo, upon whom
a faint chill fell, despite his wealth. Marty
wasn’t too clever this morning, it seemed,
which was unusual. The shop didn’t feel
too good either, which was worse than un-
usual. However, .Tiinmo’s freckled, smudgy
grin of greeting cracked hardy.
“A Micky-the-Mouse, Marty,” he said, the
quiet power of riches in his voice, “and a
ha’porth of liquorish-strap and”—-
jimmo paused, and Marty turned to the
shelves, putting the liquorish-strap and the
Micky-the-Mouse on the counter.
“And a ha’porth of snowballs,” Jimmo
decided at last.
Marty turned back to the shelves and
put out his hand to the big bottle of snow-
balls. Here he paused, too, and faced Jimmo
again, his cold eyes expressionless.
“Can’t sell lia’porths of snowballs,” he
said.
Jimmo’s grin faded. This place was up
to putty this morning. What was the matter
with Marty? He glanced round tin l shop
and into the shadows at the back, but there
was no Mrs. Day to stickybeak. They were
alone in the shop.
“You always do give ’em to me. Marty,”
he pleaded. “It’s only Mrs. Day that
won’t.”
Marty waited unmoved.
“What’s the difference?” Jimmo argued.
“There's five goes to a penn’orth an’ three
to a ha’porth.... And you always do give
’em to me. It’s only her that won’t.”
“Can’t sell lia’porths of snowballs,” Marty
repeated drearily but with iron finality in
his voice.
Jimmo was abruptly conscious that he
wanted to be gone—away from this desolate
stranger and his twilit shop into the sun-
shine and dust of the early-morning ’Loo.
The life had fallen out of the occasion; he
was no longer rich or even happy. Marty
looked like a ghost.
“Oh, well, give us another Micky-tlic-
MouSe,” he said.
Marty did this in silence, and Jimmo
escaped into the sunshine, not looking again
at this incredible Marty.
The half-dark seemed to close in, to inten-
sify in the shop when the boy had gone.
Marty drifted over towards the door of
the smallgoods cage—that achievement of
other years—but before he reached it his
listless feet were still, and he found him-
self staring with unseeing eyes at the door-
way into the back room and the three steps
and a vague darkness that seemed to hover
there.
He sighed, rousing himself, and opened
the wire-door of the cage. Better be doing
something, if it was only a bit of sweeping
or dusting the shelves. There were yester-
day’s eggs, and the butter to unpack; he
must get at that top shelf, too. . . . His hand
faltered, and the crowding thoughts surged
in again, blackening the air and making the
world all rigid in dread. The silence was
heavy with terror.
A small sound crept into the silence, an
urgent sound that was yet faintly depre-
cating and submissive. The wire-door
moved, and very gently opened itself, to
admit a quivering, eager nose, a right ear
drooped in desperate apology and a left
erect in undying hope; these were followed
by a sidling, low-hung body and a tail in
perpetual motion. Marty looked sternly at
this salaaming, squirming dog.
“Outside, Marco!” he ordered, his voice
harsh with resolution. “You know you’re
not allowed in the shop or the house. Out-
side !”
Marco’s body fell still in consternation,
the banner of liis left ear hauled down and
lying anguished along his neck, his swoon-
ing eyes sharpened and staring back at this
man. Something was wrong.
The place, as always, was full of cross-
scents, but he knew the big woman wasn’t
there, the woman who was so strict about
coming into the shop or the house, and who
bent this beloved one-armed man to her will.
They were safe from her; and it was the
hour of the liambone, the skin, sometimes
even a solid piece of ham. Marco’s puzzled
eyes searched Marty’s implacable face.
Something was desperately wrong.
“Ginger’s been told a thousand times to
keep you on your chain in the yard in the
daytime,” the man’s harsh voice went on.
“What are you doing in here? Get out!”
All this, except the final order, meant no-
thing. But there was a menace in the
man, absurd and dreadful as that might
seem. Yet there was the liambone, pink
and beautiful on the shelf; here were all
the heavenly perfumes; and it was the hour.
... .Marco’s pleading eyes swooned at Marty
again. But Marty was adamant.
“You’re not allowed,” he repeated, open-
ing the door and kicking Marco out, “and
you know it. Get out!”
The menace in this heretofore ecstatic
place was suddenly imminent. Marco, be-
wildered and unnerved, fled from it to his
kennel in the yard and the safety of the
big woman’s laws so unaccountably enforced
in her absence.
What little a man could do—the thought
trailed away again and vanished to make
way for the other crowding thoughts that
so filled the world. Doctor Savage had
warned him. “It’s the desire to live she wants
now,” he had said. “There comes a stage
in all sickness when the patient herself is
the only doctor and the only hope. A stage
when I’ve done all I can and you’ve done
all you can —when the result of it all rests
with her alone. That’s where we are now.
She’s got to leant to stay in life. As soon
as she does she’s right—good for 20 years.
If she doesn’t” — ; Dr. Savage had paused
there while his kind strong eyes had watched
Mart.v for a moment. It was meant for a
warning, Marty kncAV, and was not just
“doctor’s talk.”
What was there to make her want to live,
if you come to that? Little Feller was dead
—gone back to God, as Mrs. Scala at the
fruitshop said; and Ginger was a grown
boy when they’d adopted him. There was
himself, an old one-armed man who d never
■ been much and never would be, and who she d
picked out of the gutter, you might say. And
there was the shop. •
It wasn't much, to make a woman like
Mary want to stay in life, when you came
to list it up.
Marty’s hand with the duster bunched up
in it strayed listlessly over the counter-top.
If only she’d come to the doorway of the
back room now, and rouse on him as. of
old. about Marco in the shop or the kids
lollies or something. ... With the twinkle in
her eyes and the chuckle underneath her
voice. As of old.
But that was a long time back, it seemed.
She’d been ill. terribly ill. She was ill now
—worse than ill, as Dr. Savage had warned
him. The heavy shadows in the half-dark
seemed to close round him again.
The spring day outside in the ’Loo rose
to its noon and came down to evening. The
customers came in, and this silent Marty
served them and they w T ent out. Ginger took
his basket out after school and left his
orders and returned. The lights were lit,
and Ginger took over in the shop while
Marty went softly upstairs.
The nurse went quietly out of the room
as he entered. Mary opened her eyes, and
closed them again. That was, all.
He went over to the chair by the window
and sat down in the room’s bleak stillness.
There was a feeling of calm waiting in the
room—like standing on a threshold, the
thought crossed his mind.
A faint stir in the house below heralded
the appearance of Doctor Savage looking in
on his way home. Marty greeted him and
went downstairs to wait.
Doctor Savage’s tired face was grave as
he came down again. He shook his head in
answer to Marty’s terrified look.
“No change, Day,” he said. “I’ll be round
again after tea.
He saw that Marty’s stricken heart found
a new terror in this, and added, “It’s pretty
bad, Day, but it’s not hopeless. Nothing
is. In these cases of unconsciousness or
semi-unconsciousness, there’s nearly always
a conscious period before the end—a con-
scious period in which the patient realises
surroundings, relations and so on. If we
can catch her then we may get the lift, the
spark to make her want to hold on.”
Marty’s hand fell to his side in a little
hopeless gesture. “Righto,” he said.
“Nothing’s hopeless,” the doctor repeated.
“I’ll look in again to-night.”
The splendid fingers of the dusk caressed
the ’Loo as Denis Kavanagh cocked his hat
and walked into Marty’s shop. Marty
wouldn’t let a man go hungry for a slice or
two of ham with his tea, and maybe a couple
of eggs !
The shop was empty, and it with the
strange queer feeling in it. You’d say there
was a fear haunting it in the shadows be-
yond the lights. Kavanagh half-crossed him-
self and rapped on the counter, cocking his
liat again. Marty disengaged himself from
the shadows and came down to him.
“Ah, well, then, it’s himself,” Kavanagh
told him melodiously. “And who wouldn’t,
be the owner of a fine great store on a beau-
tiful evening, and it full of dainties? How
are you, Marty?”
“I’m well, thank you, Denis.”
“That’s good. I was thinking, taking me
walk round here,” Kavanagh leaned grace-
fully against the counter and cocked his
hat once more, “that it was time I looked
in to see Marty and tell him why I’m still
the poor man I was. It’s a great struggle,
Marty, with a number of hungry children.”
He paused, but Marty waited in silence.
He went on.
“And how’s herself now, Marty?”
“No change, Denis,” Marty told him.
Something in his voice made Kavanagh
look at him again, conscious that this wasn’t
going as well as it, traditionally, should. “Is
she no better then, Marty?” he asked.
“No better.”
This quality in Marty’s voice made Ivav-
anagli lean away from the counter, it
seemed, and stand upright. “That’s a great
woman,” he said. “There’s many have cause
to bless her. And will have in days to come.
I myself”—he paused, glancing at Marty
again and seeing the pain and terror in his
haunted eyes. His own eyes dropped as he
traced vague patterns on the counter with
a dingy forefinger for a moment. “You’ll
remember, Marty,” he continued gravely,
“that, everything is in the hands of God and
is for the best, won’t you? It’s a smaH
thing to remember, and it may hearten you.”
“Yes, I’ll remember,” Marty said.
“Do.” Kavanagh .stood away from the
counter and squared his shoulders faintly,
his compassionate eyes watching Marty’s
face. The mocking adventurous look had
fallen from him for this moment and given
place to that of a shabby Irish gentleman.
“And I’ll be going on now, with my best
respects to herself.”
Marty’s drowned mind came to the sur-
face. He knew that Kavanagh did not come
into the shop with that air to pass the time
of day and leave his respects. “Was there
anything you wanted, Denis ?” he asked kindly.
“No, thank you, Marty.” Ivavanagli’s
glance did flicker towards the rosy ham and
the baskets of eggs in the cage, but he turned
liis back on them and walked to the door.
“Good night, Marty,” lie said.
The thought of a threshold came to Marty
again in the bleak calmness of the room.
Over by the window lie could see Ginger’s
white, anxious face; Doctor Savage had
said they should. be here. This was the
crisis, he had said. He and the nurse were
beside the bed, watching Mary from the
shadow of the canopy.
This was Alary my dear, so white and
still, on the threshold ; and lie was Marty,
the one-armed odd-job and errand-man she
had made so happy; the thoughts seemed
to clear themselves of terror and pain now
that he was here at the crisis. He had
been wrong to think that she hadn’t much
to live for; that was denying all that she
had done, denying Ginger and the shop, and
even himself. She had all that work of
her brave heart to live for, and it wouldn’t
be Mary who’d leave it all, even for Little
Feller waiting in the shadows.
Peering from this threshold into the dark-
ness ahead, he thought he could see that
the past and the future were one, if you
had the pluck to stand up to it. Nothing
was hopeless, as the doctor had said. Here
she was, the Mary of all those fine years
of the past ; before the end she would be-
come conscious, would give herself and them
the chance of the future.
The room was very still and tranquil,
waiting for her to decide. Marty could see
a solitude, but of perhaps not many years
for him; he could see Ginger lonely and lost
too, for a time; he could feel how sorrow
would trample on them. Yet —if they were
broken, their lives would be the work of her
heart; that could not be taken from them.
She would always be theirs, as of old in
the splendid past.
He stared into the darkness ahead again,
his longing eyes striving fruitlessly to see.
She would be gone—gone ! Ilis heart cried
out against the calm thoughts. Where she
had been there would be nothing.... Mary,
my dear, my dear
What was that? Something seemed to stir.
Her lips were moving. The doctor and
the nurse were bending over her.
A small, sweet sound hovered in the air
like the ghost of a sound: —
“Tick, tock, Tick, took—
Round goes the wheel.
Tick, tock. Tick tock —
• Grinding the meal....
Tick, tock. Tick tock —
What does it say? •
‘Lovers, lovers —
Love while you may’ ” ....
Little Feller’s lullaby.... How often had
he heard her sing it as evening fell, her voice
soft and slumbrous in the dusk!
Marty was suddenly chill and old. The
thought stormed into his mind like a grey
wind: then Little Feller had got her. She
was with him now in that blackness beyond
the threshold, singing him to sleep. They
had lost her.
Deep silence followed the grey wind and
the small, sweet song. Eternal silence, it
seemed. Yet Doctor Savage still watched
her face
Into thig gilonee at last another sound
fretted its deprecating way. Over by the
door,
black, unhappy nose came in, and two
anxious eyes, two-ears supine in
d eS p er ate apology—Marco sidled in, and
thc bed - „ . ,
, Harty saw that her eyes were open, that
she was staring m indignant horror at this
d°g n °t only in the house but up here in
her bedroom ! A gleam came into the eyes,
§ ean mena ce that boded ill for some-
body. The eyes looked round the room and
c ‘‘ ,rnc to rest on Marty s face. They beck-
oned K ir >i; the right hand on the counter-
P ane signed him to come over. His heart
leapt in his breast as he went softly across
the room to her furious, outraged eyes.
“Yes, Mary my dear?” he whispered,
She looked from him to Marco.
.“I know,” he said submissively. “I’ll put
him out.”
“See that you do, Marty, man,” the strong,
indignant eyes seemed to say, before they
half-smiled, Full of life, they were, he
Could see.
He was conscious of a touch on his arm.
of the doctor’s glowing face and outstretched
hand. “She’s right, Day,” he whispered.


m
EDGAR
WALLACE.
A noted
Pelmanist.
MR. EDGAR WALLACE.
“I have found Pelmanism,” Mr.
Edgar Wallace- writes, “the most
useful method for the organisation
of thought.... The . power of con-
centration is not so much a gift as an
acquirement, and the ability to con-
centrate on the job one has in hand is
not only assisted, but could be
created by a study of the Pelman
Method. To students of all ages it
seems to me to be indispensable.
It is the machine-tool of thought.”
SIR HERBERT AUSTIN.
Sir Herbert Austin, Chairman of
the world famous Austin Motor Co.,
Ltd., writes: “The job for every one
of us is first to fit ourselves for better
things and then to go out after
them.... Here it is that Pelmanism
is proving of immense help to-day.
....Too many people are just drift-
ing. Pelmanism can stop that drift-
ing and start the drifter on a useful
journey.”
DR. F. W. NORWOOD, D.D.
“Pelmanism,” Dr. Norwood, of the
City Temple, London, says, “is sound
Psychology and an admirable system
of Mind-training. A proper grasp of
it would save any life from futility
and would cause many to discover
powers latent, within themselves of
the existence of which they had not
dreamed. Pelmanism teaches that
man has the key to his own career
and enables many to find the key
itself which, for want of self-know-
ledge, had lain undiscovered.”
In “The Efficient Mind” there
are opinions of Pelmanism by
many other well-known people.
w.
NORWOOD,
A noted
elm
d
ft Ton are sure to be inter-
ested in at least one of the
people who, in “The Efficient
Mind,’’ speak highly of Pel-
manism from practical experi-
ence. It may be a prominent
personality who has captured
your imagination or it may
be a neighbor. Get a copy
now—write; at once.
“jPelmanism is a living and growing scheme
of self-mastery and self-development.”
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind\
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism is concerned with personal
attributes and qualities which are funda-
mental. They may be sleeping or only
partly developed, but they are in every
normal individual. Pelmanism develops
them, separately and together, so that
amongst other things concentration is
made easier by quickened perceptions;
natural energy enormously increased by
interest, and prompt decision justified by
soundness of judgment.
Amongst these attributes and qualities are^;
.
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will-Power
Initiative
Self-Confidence
Presence of Mind
Organising Power
Courage
Cheerfulness
And a Reliable Memory.
The development of these strong, posi-
tive, vital qualities contributes to one’s
earning capacity, makes for security, and
so makes it possible to live “intelligently
and strongly.”
The Kind of People who take the Pelman Course
There is only one type of man who takes the Pelman Course, but he is found in every
calling and in every walk of life. He is the man who wants to excel, who will not be
deterred by circumstances, who will live intelligently and strongly, the man who will
reach out and take the good things that every age and every occupation offer to him
who has the wit and courage to take them.
AN ACCOUNTANT states that Pelmanism has
shown him “how to overcome i that paralysing
feeling of inferiority.”
A STUDENT writes: “I have now an aim in
life. I have become more Observant. My
Concentration is more developed. My Imagi-
nation has increased.”
A SHOP-ASSISTANT reports that he has
secured a better position and attributes this
to Pelmanism.
A FARM-WORKER writes: “Thanks to Pelman-
ism, 1 am feeling more confident and more
alive.”
A MANAGER reports an increase in Self-confi- ■
dence, “which has brought me the respect
of my colleagues.”
AN ENGINEER writes: “I feel especially an
increase in Self-confidence, which gives pro-
fessional status."
A CLERK writes that he has improved in
memory, concentration and will-power, and
that his mind is quicker and more alert.
A DOCTOR writes that he has improved his
powers of Observation, Concentration and
Memory, and has increased his Self-confi-
dence.
AN INSURANCE CLERK writes: “Financially
I am over 30 per cent, better off than before;
mentally and physically I am hundreds per
cent, better off.”
A WOMAN CLERK writes: "I can concentrate
for quite a long period without my mind
wandering. I observe things far more quickly,
and have ever so much more confidence in
myself and my abilities. My thoughts are far
more orderly.”
A TEACHER writes: “This Course has had a
remarkable effect on my physical and mental
health. What pleases me most is the cer-
tainty that I have lost- my fear. My self-
confidence has returned, and my whole out-
look on life seems to be reconstructed.”
A CLERGYMAN writes: “I have experienced
much benefit and wish I had undertaken the
Course earlier in life. Had I known at the
age of 30 certain things which I know now —
largely through the Pelman lessons 1 think
I could have avoided one or two painful
nervous breakdowns. . . . To summarise (and
employ a fashionable word), I think I have
gained a better orientation towards life.”
A BANK CLERK writes: “This Course has
enabled me to see clearly what I want in
life and how to get it. It has taken me out
of the rut. It has shown me that, whatever
the circumstances may be, life holds infinite
possibilities of enjoyment and improvement.”
Thousands of similar letters from all
over Australia and New Zealand could
be printed did space permit.
“The Efficient Mind”
The Pel-man Course of Training is fully described in “The Efficient Mind,” which contains 76 pages of
matter and illustrations of very great interest. Copies arc posted free. Call or write for one. Inquiries
are regarded as confidential communications. The Pelman Institute has no outdoor representatives.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
eadquarters: LONDON
Branches throughout
the World.
for the Scientific Development of Mind
Memory and Personality.
650,000 World Pelmanist*.
31,000 Australasian
Pelmanists.
3 GLOUCESTER HOUSE, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
(Corner of Market Street.)
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
Pelmanism may be mastered by giving to it 20
or 30 minutes a day for about three months.
There are twelve lessons in the course. It is
intensely interesting, and the results begin to
show within a week. It is taught by post.
To the Secretary, THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House. 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, CJ.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.” In asking lor it I incur no obligation
NAME ~
POSTAL ADDRESS '.
308
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from .
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
so*
s e V* 6
At' c &e
\\er 3 a '■
G*' %“&*
0°
ff>
s>?
2
V®
**
,V^°
,« v
tf*


H
orse you can rely on
In any company
iS-'
tos
*»
Comfort and good cheer enter a room with the decanter
of White Horse. As the glasses tilt there’s a pursing of
lips . . . and nods of approval to the host. Ah! That’s
good whisky! Which? White Horse? Oh, of course . . .
L
wmm,*
1
■ :W >Vr.
/.•••• . ft*-:
kv
|1I
m ■
y»Y »y*j
'
a
m
mfjji
'/MMk
m.
mm
m\
WM
mm
**
W- TKe Okl Blend
*
(Ef
O ri S in< P
Esca,b
s®
insii
Still!
s&ss
H
w «»te ttORSE DiSTpW
SCOTCH WHISKY
THE
SENIOR
WHISKY
O F
SCOTLAND
