

PLUME
sets the standard
WM
.
'
.
Performance is proof
Let ymttr car decide!
VACUUM OIL CO. PTY. LTD.
The Bulletin
(HJ(M,~bo 6e honJLJU aUxovl tk *—'J^e. <f.
Vol. 52.—N0. 2704.
Wednesday, December 9, 1931*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GIVE BOOKS FOR XMAS.
for our 72-page Xmas Catalogue.
Sent, post free, anywhere.
DYMQCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George. Street,. Sydney.
Learn
Story Writmg
This Book FREE to YOU!
• SEND THIS COUPON - ,
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne .
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
5.8.231
Can you afford to miss
AMERICA
Right —New Orleans is rich
inthe mellow charm ofa
hundred years ago.
• '
Below Silvery cascades
abound in America’s innum-
erable canyons.
sdf
sd
AMERICA is constantly in the
XIL news! Post and Gatty ... the
world’s tallest building . • • 'Wall
Street . . . the Olympic games . . •
Hollywood, the cinema capital •,. in
sports, drama, politics and industry,
America is always in the news. If you
would keep abreast of current history
you should know first hand this vast
arena of world events.
•
Travel on American Railways is at-
tended by the utmost in comfort,
convenience and keen interest. Ar-
rangements for any itinerary are
simple to make through this bureau
and without cost.
Plan your holiday to include Amer-
ica, reached on swift Matson liners
via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii, to San Francisco. A free
illustrated booklet will be gladly sent
upon request.
Giant skyscrapers frame this view
of Michigan Avenue, Chicago's
surging thoroughfare,''
IS*
m
m
®«p
Write to Department Al.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL AND
INFORMATION BUREAU
12 Bridge St., Sydney. ..Teh B 7981-3
fs
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.)
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. .. .. 7! £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock —Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Boh rice Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO.. LTD.. Adelaide.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
A Movie Hero
Geaeral Rafaele de Nogales (what a
name!), author of Memoirs of a Soldier of
Fortune (Wright and Brown; 21s.), was
born in Venezuela. His stoiy begins charac-
teristically :—
In the year of our Lord 1900, after a little excur-
sion to Husseinabad on the Perso-Afghan border,
where I had journeyed to help an Emir who had
rebelled against his master at Kabul, and lost, I
spent several months in a haphazard junket which
took me from India to Sumatra, and through Ceylon
to the East Coast of Africa, which T followed south-
wards to Cape Colony and up the Congo.
He arrives in Mexico:—
Upon hearing of my arrival, Porfirio Diaz not
only forgave me for slipping out several months ago
with a load of rifles and ammunition from under
the guns of his cruiser Sonora, off Cozumel Island,
and making a clean get-away to Honduras on our
schooner La Rosa, but had invited me to visit him
in the Palazio Nacional.
And so, trailing clouds of braggadocio, to
Alaska and Nevada (for the gold booms),
on to Mexico (where he engaged in cattle-
stealing) , to his native land to oppose the
Gomez dictatorship, and to Belgium to join
in the war (“if for no other reason than
that Leopold II. had befriended me as a
boy”). He ended by accepting a commission
from the Turks, and in that capacity has
a lot to say about “the great raid on the
Suez Canal.” The British “never suspected
our presence on the eastern bank until
dawn.” Then a rooster (the bird was being
carried by a Turkish officer!) crowed.
But for that confounded rooster, so our askarn
claim, we would have won the World War.
He has a picturesque yarn of an alleged
episode at Daharie, in Palestine. A Turkish
squadron “sallied forth alone and defied
single-handed a whole British or Australian
regiment.”
A squadron of Australians picked up the glove.
The Cross and the Crescent clashed amid a cloud
of dust. After the fight was called off, only about
three dozen Australians and Turks remained standing
in their stirrups. Not a rifle, machine-gun or field
piece cracked or thundered on either side until
that handful of knights of St. George and Paladins
of Allah had safely retreated to their respective
lines.
De Nogales is a desperado after Hollywood’s
own heart. He gallops into trackless deserts,
but escapes death by thirst; sneers at the
levelled guns of his foes and doesn’t get
shot; wades through human blood, but loses
none of his own, and through it all is as
flash as a film doughboy. According to the
blurb, “if he does not became a president
he will probably wind up with his back to
a. wall and a cigarette between his lips,
directing the fire of the squad that is to
shoot him.” This critic’s tip is that he will
end up as special crime-writer on a U.S.A.
daily at a mammoth salary. He has all the
qualifications including a Munchausen-like
imagination, the gift of making trivial epi-
sodes seem tremendous, and a racy, exciting
style. R. B. Cunninghame Graham supplies
an eloquent preface.
The Shales ford Theory
Of all the theories identifying Shakspeare
with some other writer, not necessarily of
the same name, the De Vere (Earl of
Oxford) one is the most interesting. Lieut.-
Colonel Douglas gives an admirable sum-
mary of it and some fresh arguments in
support in The Earl of Oxford as “Shak-
speare” (Cecil Palmer; 10s. 6d.). No one
has ever explained satisfactorily how it
came about that a yokel from a midland
hamlet, after a short apprenticeship as horse-
holder outside a London theatre and a
slightly longer one as indoor servant, should
have joined a company of actors and,
in between a strenuous business career,,
turned out each year “on an average two'
plays, but in the earlier years a much-greater
number.” And such plays: “alLbelonging
to the supreme rank of literature; marvel-
lous works, ‘not of an age, but for all time’
—replete with classical learning, profound
knowledge of the world and of mankind,
and of the philosophy of life and human
nature, and redolent of the highest culture.”
Not to mention the poems, which must have
been written in William’s horse-holding
days, or shortly afterwards. If the young
man from Stratford wrote the poems and
plays why do we know so little of him?
The only material facts that have been
dug out by the researchers are that he was
born in 1564, married, came to London,
where he worked, acted, wrote poems and
plays and acquired property, made his will,
and died in 1616 leaving an estate worth
£1200. We know of Oxford that he was
born to great wealth in 1550, took a univer-
sity degree, became a member of Gray’s
Inn, saw a good deal of active service on
the Continent, fought against the Armada,
was interested in
the London stage,
leased the Black-
friars Theatre, and
wrote poems and
plays. He died in
1604. Without
going into the resemblances between passages
in writings attributed to Oxford and Shak-
speare respectively (and they are remark-
able), it may be said that Oxford was one
of the few men of his day who, by reason
of his education, leisure, knowledge of war-
fare on land and sea, and of Courts, Europe,
society and life generally, might have
written the plays. Shakspeare had a vil-
lager’s schooling, and he knew nothing of
the world at first hand, outside Stratford
and parts of London. How did he come to
write “Lucrece,” for example, which derived
from Ovid’s “The Fasti,” of which there was
no translation? Remains the problem of
why, assuming Oxford wrote the poems
and plays, he never laid public claim to
them.
Many of the Elizabethan nobles, including the
Earl of Oxford and his father before, him, main-
tained companies of actors, and were themselves
authors, though anonymously, for it was contrary to
custom for a member of the aristocracy to appear
as author of any work connected with so disreputable
an institution as the stage. ... It was an unwritten
law that poems by courtiers should not be printed
under their names while they were alive.
This theory that a gentleman demeaned
himself by becoming a writer lasted well
into the nineteeenth century in England,
and may account for the mystery that still
shrouds the letters of “Junius.” According
to the Oxfordeans “William Shakspeare”
was their hero’s bought pseudonym—a
variant lon the modern arrangement by which
nobles of both sexes put their names to the
writings of “ghosts.” Frank Harris’s fas-
cinating theory that much of Shakspeare’s
work was influenced by a love affair with the
wanton maid of honor Mary Fitton (the
Dark Lady of the sonnets) is not referred
to in this book. Yet it is as arguable as
any of the theories about the Bard, and
it strengthens the case of the Oxfordeans.
Mary Fitton would have been much likelier
to have had a liaison with a brilliant mem-
ber of her own class than with the “rogue
and vagabond” that the rustic from Strat-
ford was.
RED PAGE
Creative Writing in Australia
In celebration of Australian Authors’
Week in London, the “Times” Literary
Supplement had a leading article on Aus-
tralian literature. The thesis imposed
upon the facts chosen for the article was
that, Australian literature is, of course, not a
river in itself, nor, indeed, even a tribu-
tary of the Thames, but an anabranch.
That is, Australian writers have seemed to
flow outwards from the broad stream of
English literature, but have to-day flowed
into it again. It is »a metaphor that raises
many questions, but in sustaining it the
writer has had to strain some of his observed
facts beyond endurance, while omitt,ing
many others (such as the work of “Tom
Collins”) that would conflict with his theory.
One fact that he felt obliged to mention,
and that in itself could have damaged his
theory, was the highly original work of
Katharine Prichard. In mentioning it,
then, he is obliged to state that she is not
original, but imitative, and that whereas
she began by imitating D. H. Lawrence she
is now imitating Sheila Kaye Smith!
There you have it, the easy formula of
“The Australian D. H. Lawrence,” “The
Australian Sheila Kaye Smith.” It is diffi-
cult for an onlooker to imaging Lawrence
and Sheila Kaye Smith housing under the
same hat; but perhaps the suggestion is that,
Lawrence was evicted' to make way for
Sheila? It can be freely granted that all
her writing life Katharine Prichard has
been aware of a certain affinity with the
literary outlook of D. H, Lawrence, and at
times, usually before seeing the particular
work of his, she has found herself treating
similar themes. Her interest in Lawrence,
however, has never been that of an imitator;
and her devout admiration has been granted
even more fully to Ladislas St. Reymont’s
great Polish tetralogy “The Peasants,” a
work that Mr. Jose has not thought of
setting up as her model. As for Sheila
Kaye Smith, one might as well say that
Katharine Prichard imitated Lady Eleanor
Smith, since both “Red Wagon” and
“Haxby’s Circus” contain circuses. The
fact that “Haxby’s Circus” was written first
is, of course, negligible, and so, for the
sake of this argument, is the difference in
setting and character. To show that Kath-
arine Prichard to-day imitates Sheila Kaye
Smith it is only necessary to point out
that in the English books there are some-
times farmers and horses, and that the
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”—AIways at Antjiony Horderns’.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns’
Vintage Wines at Ridiculously Low Prices
/
?+SR
itmmm
n
&
>
c
&
o
wmiiutt
m
\
i~rt£k
t. •
:2vT
liiinmnifTrin
\ ■ \
') LX
An exceptional purchase of Australian Wines Vintage
Ports that rival the old wines of Portugal, and Sparkling
Wines equal to the finest vintages of France.
These wines were specially selected years ago and binned
away in a Sydney cellar. After being in the wood for two
years they were bottled and allowed to mature in the glass
for several years.
To-day we confidently assert that their excellence will give
the greatest satisfaction to the keenest connoisseur. This
opinion of their quality has been supported by so keen a
wine expert as Mr. Leo Buring, who classes them amongst
the finest wines he has had the pleasure of tasting.
1926 Vintage
Cuvee D’Or
Champagne
51-
dfs
1926 Cuvee Rouge
Sparkling Burgundy
416
df
1924 Vintage
Crusted Port
41-
1924 Vintage Crusted Port
Bot.
4/-
Doz.
Bot.
45/-
Bon Boris give Great Fun for after Christmas Dinner
m
79
Lxtra large size Bon-bons,
filled with pretty caps and
novelties. Twelve in box. At
Anthony Horderns’ . . 22/6
Brightly colored
Christmas Bell,
con t a i ning 1 2
crackers. At
Anthony Hor-
derns’ ..... 7/9
A revolving wheel brightly-
colored. 12 Bon-bons. At Anthony
Horderns’ . . 8/6
ST
8
A Christmas Pie full of thrills for the
little ones. At Anthony Horderns’, 8/-
gJ|
Jr
;v\S
Box containing 12 bon-bons filled
with caps and other surprises. At
Anthony Horderns’ 11/6
5^
qm
] 2 Bon-bons in brightly-colored box,
filled with caps and novelties. At
Anthony Horderns’ 7/6
sdf
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
sdf


THESE ARE THE
SELECTED and
ENDORSED
LABOR
CANDIDATES
WORK FOR THEM
—VOTE FOR THEM
Barton J. C. Eldridge, M.H.R.
Calare T. W\
Cook ...... Aid. J. S. Garden
Cowper ... T. Roach.
Dailey J. S. Rosevear
Darling .... R. Quintrell
East Sydney E. J. Ward, M.H.R.
Gwydir .... E. F. Cummins
Hume L. Regan
Hunter R. James, M.H.R.
Lang Aid. D. Mulcahy
Macquarie . A. Luchetti
Martin .... C. H. Hankin
Newcastle . . f. Kidd
North Sydney N. C. Nelson.
Parkes .... H. L. Gardem
Parramatta V. D. Patterson
Aid. J. Gander
Riverina ... J. Heiss
Robertson . . P. Robb
South Sydney J. Stewart
Werriwa ... H. Lazzarini, M.H.R.
West Sydney J. A. Beasley, M.H.R.
FOR THE SENATE:
C. Anderson, T. Arthur, E. A. Barker.
■
HU
■
H
■ B
"
r
ma^m
A
;
siiiigi mm
m
A'T \
i !
Hi
HON. J. T. LANG, M.L.A.,
Leader of the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales.
THESE ARE THE
SELECTED and
ENDORSED
LABOR
CANDIDATES
WORK FOR THEM
—VOTE FOR THEM
THe People Must Rule
MONEY MUST BE A SERVANT... NOT A DICTATOR!
Domination of the people by financial
institutions is the short cut to violent Revolu-
tion. Oppression always brings its ultimate
reaction of violence.
To prevent Revolution, to ensure retention of
liberties, the People Must Rule.
Through their selected and endorsed Labor candi-
dates the People will rule, because Labor is the
voice of the People.
This is the voice which demands that all living
conditions be lifted to higher peaks, not smashed
down to lower levels.
This is the party that realises the danger of Revo-
lution and Communism, and that these menaces
are feeding on the unrest and dissatisfaction of
present economic conditions.
This is the party that has courage to advocate!
evolutionary prosperity for everybody instead of
reactionary prosperity for a few.
There is a clear-cut issue in this election: “IS'
MONE Y MO R E IMPORTANT THAN
HUMANITY?”
Labor in New South Wales is on the side of
humanity. It has taken up the cudgels in
defence of the People.
The forces of reaction are on the side of
Money. They pretend that the present dominance
of the People by the financial institutions is the
best system that can be evolved.
They pretend that unemployment, starvation, and
gutter standards of living for the majority, and
luxury for the few, is the best system humanity’s
brain can devise for humanity.
They have made Money a Dictator instead of a
servant.
Humanity demands that money shall again be a
servant and a means of exchanging goods for
goods, or goods for service, instead of a Dictator
which crushes down the value of goods and wipes
out the value of service.
The Rule of Money means Revolution.
The Rule of the People means Evolution.
Happy, contented humanity which receives its share
of the benefits of production will not follow any
incitement to violence.
But humanity struggling pitifully under the domi-
nance of money will choose the path of violence
to escape.
Representing the People, Labor in New South
Wales will fight to make humanity happy and
contented. It will restore the economic standards
to where they should he. In the cause of
humanity, it will insist that financial institutions
render the same service as any other branch of
commerce or endeavor.
Believing that the People Must Rule, the selected and
endorsed Labor candidates will follow a direct,
determined path to attain what humanity desires.
Seeing the problems clearly, a Federal Labor
Government will attack those problems as reso-
lutely and as efficiently as the Lang Government
has done in New South Wales.
Do not heed the catch-cries. Do not worry about
the side-issues the reactionary elements will intro-
duce. Do not hesitate if the forces of money
label everybody but themselves “Red” or “Bol-
shevik.” These things are not true. Labor in
New South Wales is Evolutionary.
There is only one question: “ARE YOU ON
THE SIDE OF MONEY OR ON THE SIDE
OF HUMANITY?”
If you vote for humanity you will vote for the
Selected and Endorsed Labor Candidates whose
names appear on this page.
(Authorised by J. J. Graves, 32 Trades Hall, Sydney.)


When the talk
turns to Radio —
It will be found that those
getting the best reception are
utilising Radiotron Valves in
their receivers.
For over ten years they have
been recognised throughout
the world as the standard
valves of the entire Radio
Industry.
7*4'}
»
£
sdf
sdf
for long life, consistent per-
formance, distance & dur-
ability, Radiotrons are
unequalled.
Take home a set of Radio-
trons to-night, and mark the
difference in reception.
Obtainable at all Radio Dealers
Inserted by
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIAI LTD.
ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC SUPPLIES COY. LTD.
Australian writer knows the soil, too.
“There is a river in Monmouth, there is a
river also in Macedon”
Katharine Prichard is not a beginner.
Why should her books, one after another,
be accounted for only as imitations of
incompatible originals? Reading in suc-
cession “Black Opal,” “Working Bullocks,
“Coonardoo” and “Haxby’s Circus” we see
no violent break such as Mr. Jose’s com-
ment suggests. On the contrary, we see
different aspects of an unusual mind work-
ing on new and difficult material. For her
pains, she is asked if she only writes about
Australia, and is described as imitative. It
seems that to certain critics the words
“imitative” and “Australian” are almost
identical.
Very well. Suppose for a time we lay
less stress on the word Australian. Katharine
Prichard, for instance, is a significant
novelist writing in Australia. Somebody
else is an insignificant novelist writing in
Australia, and his work adds nothing to
Australian literature. Many of us have
suffered from worthless work handed to us
with the confident remark, “You’ll praise
this, I know, because it’s Australian!” The
obverse of such a nonsensical and danger-
ous assumption is the acid (fuery quoted
when I began. Meanwhile, with a confi-
dence supported by suggestions from several
quarters at once, we can use, instead of
“Australian Literature,” some phrase like
“Creative Writing in Australia.” At present
with frank eagerness and joy we are able
to watch surprising recent developments of
creative writing in our billabong.
NETTIE PALMER.
Art and Actuality
In the Red Page (18/11/’3l) “J.D.” gives
this remarkable advice to writers: “Don’t
write about people or places unless you
know them like the palm of your hand.”
Apart from the fact that no man, unless
he be an anthropologist, a surgeon or a
painter, knows anything more than a few
irrelevant details about the palm of his
hand, this is pure nonsense. The fallacy
lies in the writer’s notion that the art of
literature is concerned with actuality—such
things as the clothes men wear, or how they
part their hair, or whether they call hunting-
dogs beagles, or what not. It is true that
in most books, plays and films these facts
are all-important. But that only means
that the books, plays and films are worth-
less. It is highly improbable that Lewis
Carroll ever visited Wonderland or went
behind the looking-glass, but the people
Alice met are far more real than any crea-
tion, except Charley Chaplin, that has come
out of Hollywood since its inception. And
Hollywood is such a whale for literal accu-
racy that it has huge staffs of nitwits lo<pk-
ing up encyclopedias and consulting fashion
authorities before it ventures on a master-
piece.
Says “J.D.” further: “As often as a novel-
ist falls in illusion is destroyed for the
readers who catch him out, and in fiction
when illusion goes everything goes.” Of
course it does, if the only illusion aimed at
is the illusion of outside appearances. But
if the aim is to depict the passions and
motives which sway men’s minds, then the
illusion is not destroyed by an error of fact,
or else three-quarters of the world’s master-
pieces of literature would now be on the
scrapheap.
M. G. S.
The advice complained of was inspired
chiefly by a novel which represented an
American who had inherited an English
marquisate presenting the title and seat in
Parliament to his future son-in-law, as he.
had no use for them himself. This might
not destroy illusion in America’s flannel
nightgown belt or “M.G.S.’s” suburb, but
it would among readers who had been
taught the elements of English constitu-
tional history. I repeat: In fiction, when
illusion goes everything goes—and illusion
must go when the talker shows that he
doesn’t know what he is talking about.
There is a well-known story of George
Meredith who, in his capacity of publisher’s
reader, was given Hardy’s first novel. It
contained mistakes similar to those in “The
American Marquis.” “Have you met these
people?” asked Meredith. Hardy admitted
he hadn’t. “Then don’t write about them
till you know them as well as you know
your Wessex peasants,” said Meredith-
Sound advice. “Ouida” was a born story-
teller, but she never bothered aoout actu-
ality, and consequently spoiled her novels
for thousands with all sorts of comic gaffes.
The one about the ’varsity hero, for
example, who leapt into his college boat
untrained and stroked it to victory, rowing
two strokes to the other oarsmen’s one. The
great writers of fiction—Thackeray, Balzac,
Dickens, Meredith, Flaubert, Bennett—paid
scrupulous attention to detail; it is doubt-
ful if in all their works put together there
are as many slips as in one of the books I
criticised.
More license is allowed in poetry and the
drama. Shakspeare himself was inaccurate.
But then he wrote in a hurry for largely
ignorant audiences. His fellow-craftsmen
objected to his mistakes as strongly as
Meredith did to Hardy’s. Ben Jonson com-
plained in 1618, that “Shakspeer wanted
arte.... Shakspeer in a play brought in a
number of men saying they had suffered
shipwreck in Bohemia when there is no sea
neer by 100 miles.”
“M.G.S.” admits by implication that some
painters know a lot about the palms of
their hands. Why? Because to paint a
hand or any other part of the human
body well the artist has to be an anatomist.
The public may be deceived by the work
of- one who knows as little of anatomy as
the author of “The American Marquis”
knows of heraldry, but the critics who mat-
ter will see what is wrong at a glance. The
masters of fiction, knew the people and
places they wrote about as the masters of
portraiture knew the palms of their hands.
Inside out as the saying goes. It is one
of the explanations of their greatness. Ordi-
nary writers can’t aspire to that degree of
exactitude, but they should at least know
their subjects as intimately as the average
observant person knows his palm. That
is, by sight. My complaint against the
author of “The American Marquis” is that
he knows no more of England than I know
of the sole of my foot.
J.D.
A Satchel of Books
Judah and Tamar (Ghetto Press; Gs.)
is a play by Izak Goller that fills in the
outlines of the story of Judah’s philandering
with his daughter-in-law, which, is recounted,
purely for genealogical purposes it would
seem, in Genesis xxxviii. Goller supplies a
happier ending than Genesis does, but other-
wise he sticks fairly closely to his brief.
There is humor as well as tragedy in the
drawing of the characters, and the dialogue,
even where it has to follow the biblical text,
doesn’t sound stilted.
Red Pepper Returns (Methuen; 7s. 6d.).
That paragon of medicoes Dr. Bedfield
Pepper Burns, who never said a foolish
thing and never did an unwise one, and
who every day and in every way lived up
to the “Ladies’ Home Journal” ideal of a
100 per cent. American, comes back into
print to save his niece from an unsuitable
marriage and match her with one of his
proteges—also a paragon. Grace S. Rich-
mond wields a lively pen, and though Dr.
Burns’s infallibility may prove a little irri-
tating to folk built of commoner clay his
adventures are worth following.
Bengal Lancer, by F. Yeats-Brown (Go'l-
lancz; Robertson and Mullens; 3s. 6d. net).
This is the first cheap edition of a book that
has run into 11 editions within the last 12
months. It is easy to understand why it has
done so. Not many British officers go in
for yogi and make pilgrimages to Benares
to sit in the dust of the highways with loin-
clothed devotees of Siva. It is unfortunate
that this part of the autobiography is least
convincing. The conversations between the
Englishman and the philosophers who trans-
port themselves through the air and resur-
rect dead sparrows read exactly like every
similar dialogue in Indian religious litera-
ture, like the Diamond Sutra. The accounts
of polo-playing, pig-sticking and the fes-
tival of the Fish-eyed Goddess, on the other
hand, are brilliant. Yeats-Brown was the
aviator who, with Colonel White, of Mel-
bourne, landed outside Bagdad to cut a
telegraph line, and .spent the rest of the war
escaping from Turkish prisons.
George Washington, the Son of His Coun-
try, by Paul Van Dyke (Scribner; 17s. 6d.).
The most interesting part of this biography
concerns the time when Washington was a
British officer leading colonial troops against
the French invading from Canada. Both
sides employed Indian allies and offered
rewards for scalps, brought in, as if an
enemy were a rabbit: Of a French officer
who had been killed by Indians, Washing-
ton writes: “Mr. Pearis sends the scalp, and
I hope, although it is not an Indian’s, they
will meet with an adequate reward at least,
as the Monsieur’s is of much more con-
sequence.” On the other side, a French
commandant was writing to his Colonial
Minister that “I had six or seven war
parties in the field at once, always accom-
panied by Frenchmen. I have succeeded in
ruining Pennsylvania, Maryland and Vir-
ginia, totally destroying settlements over a
tract of country one hundred and fifty miles
wide.” The Indians “do not make any
prisoners; they kill all they meet, men,
women and children. Every day they have
some in their kettle, and after having-
abused the women they kill them.” It was
a strange school of manners to have pro-
duced the humane and enlightened George
Washington.
And a Little Verse
LOVELINESS.
Love me, and never leave me,
Love, nor ever deceive me;
And I shall always bless thee
If I may undress thee —
Which I heard a lover say
To his sweetheart, where they lay.
He, though he did undress her,
Did not always bless her;
She, though she would not leave him,
Often did deceive him.
Yet they loved, and when they died
They were buried side by side.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
THE WANDERER.
My eyes behold, my mind can understand,
My heart alone feels not, nor loves. Oh,
why?
In vain I seek for peace on earth, in sky.
In vain I seek for love; alone I stand.
Life is a void. No touch of friendly hand
On mine. No friends, but wolves. For what
to try
Glory’s conquest? To rise to fall.
crushed, I
Long for the silence of an unknown land.
Who will throw me Ariadne’s thread?
Ought I
Still fight or die, or lonely spend my days?
In vain I ask my fate. I only cry.
As does the vagabond of load that weighs
Him down; from shoulder tired I change
in vain
To shoulder bent, my burden of dread pain.
QUEENSLAND.
MARIUS BE FRESIS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of. communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
N. J.D.: Not very good, even for 15... .
ft.M.C.: We’re pretty sure you’re a big, honest chap;
but we’re surer you're not even a little poet....
Kathleen E. M.: Signs of imagination ; but the theme
leads so easily to the obvious... .J.S.P.: Twelve
nicely-done stanzas about nothing at a 11... .E.M.H.:
One verse from tribute to the men who built “The
Harbor Bridge”:—
A noble structure all may view
That shows what mortals here can do
When aims are high and motives true.
To which we add a P.S.:—
They told us back in twenty-two
Four million pounds the job would do.
It ran to nine—all 10U.
....Kester B.: Your “Moonstone” glitters. But it’s
a meretricious charmer... .Henry P.: You’ve cata-
logued everything in your nightpiece except the
mosquitoes... .R.M.J.: Your Carlotta isn’t real. Don’t
believe “the tiny hidden knife that she has slipped
somewhere beneath her garter” is real, either....
Eva M.: The jingling rhymes got tiresome...,
E.E.W.: Nothing extra. Let her alone; put R.L.S.
and Wordsworth in her way; then Blake... .L. 8.1.:
Facility, but not much depth. “Human” and “Not
Twain” get nearest u 5.... Minnie M.: Try again
with something not such a featherweight... .F. San:
“Exile” was all-but through; a few threadbare
phrases were the last straw that gave the reader
the hump... .M. 8.: You sigh with some dignity ; but
you sigh overmuch. .. .A.E.D.A.: Smoothly written;
but overdone... .Degilbo: Hsibbur... .Ming: “The
Lovers” has nice feeling ; but too much of a nature
inventory. The young man who gave so much atten-
tion to the charms of night couldn’t pay much to
the girl... .P.C.H.: Over-written. Cut out two-thirds
of your adjectives, for a start.... S.M.C.: The music
in it makes this paper wish it was twice as big.
D.D.: Good; only one or two clumsy phrases bar
it....80b P.: May be great truths, but they are
not poetry... .W.H.G.: Two thousand words about a
lady who offered her false teeth in payment for a
railway ticket! Have a heart. .. .R.A.M.: Why seek
to rhyme “post in” with “Austin” ?.... Airy Palmed
Tramp (or something like that) : Mostly illegible;
what can be deciphered is incoherent... .Hanlon:
Sheer puerility.. . .L.L.: “If not too punky and not
too lengthy, you might publish this effort.” It’s
both... .A.M.: “The Endless Feast” gave us indi-
gestion and “The Dud” proved 0ne....G. S. the L.:
You have a lively imagination anyhow.... Yeo: Your
refreshingly modest opening “Enclosed are some
rotten verses” almost disarmed us—until we had
struggled through them.... Bellerive: And now we
come to something in the Wordsworth manner:—
P.O.M.: Both in the flyweight class G.R.F.:
Melodramatic....B.K.P.: Never looked like a winner.
C.O.: Promising; now write about something
you know W.C.K.: A fair plot spoilt N.M.:
Ending badly handled... .V.L.: Only a couple of
pars, in it C. 8.: Fine plot, but telling doesn’t
convince. .. .W.T.C.: Humor forced P.E.G.: Con-
ventional W.J.C.R.: Crude G.H.: Has been
covered a hundred times... .M.C.: Unattracted by
the lady. .. .T.J.C.: Needs drastic revision A.A.L.:
It would take a “Kodak” to handle that tale
J. 8.: Sending it back F.T.S.: Drawn out, and
ends lamely... .E.K.P.: A mysterious voice was heard
by us, also. It prompted us to turn it down....
J.T.C.: Ginger had no punch G.J.L.: The end
was no surprise, and a surprise was needed....
G.E.G.R.: Comedy is labored A.L.K.: Make your
characters clearer... .M.1.T.5.: Too long. ...B. A.
Camp Hill: Reads like a telegram for the “Missing
Friends” column. You know the sort of thing •
“Disillusioned. Longing come home. What would
you do if Little Willie had measles? Send thirty
shillings”.... Hilda M. D.: Vitamines B, C and D
missing. Clearness of expression is their best
quality A.E.W.: Sorry to say you fail to make
us see your wheels go round.... Musette M.: Neatly
done, but the theme is threadbare.... Alba: Little
rhyme, less reason... .A.E.E.: Same old twilight,
moon and stars, and not one of them either does
or spots an unusual thing Beverley B.: You’ve
made it all sound very respectable at any rate'. All
that’s wrong is you haven’t made it poetry
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRI” iN BENTS.
W.H.G.: You’re creeping nearer... .D.C.: Office
cat lovingly pawed object on left alleged to be
a rat. .. .8.N.: Effort to crowd a Murray steamer
into the space was disastrous. Try a canoe next
time R.P.: A Boer War jest L.H.: Draw
with a broader nib and do dip into the ink bottle
now and then. .. .M.A.8.: What you saw at Cunna-
mulla wasn’t worth gazing at... .S.M.K.: It’s
Doughboy, not Digger, slang... .T.S.W.: Don’t care
whether it took you 50 seconds or 50 hours; it’s
craftsmanship that counts... .F.L.A.: Unfortunately
we are much more critical than your friends....
M.K.: Curb that tendency to copy... .F.R.: Poor in
humor and execution. .. .A.P.A.: A high diver, is it,
or an insect crawling down the paper ?.... W.S.:
You’re not at home with the crayon... .V.T.: As
soon as we saw drunk bowing to statue we guessed
gag... . J.S.A.: Congratulations on optimism; con-
dolences on art. .. .E. 8.: Started enumerating your
faults, but had to give up....C.M.: Cannibal chief
has devoured that parson many times before... .R.S.:
Only original work wanted.... A.D.: Send it to a deno-
minational paper... .R.N.G.: Not sure whether it’s
Scullin or Henry Ford. .. .F.R.F.: Heard it on the
talkies, on the gramophone, over the air, and read
it in print. .. .J.G.: Jagged outlines and quips that
have had their day....A.W.: Might do for a
children’s supplement in a dull week... .F.M.K.:
Considering his age, it is definitely promising... .
L.N.: Incident too parochial for a national paper.
. ...M.G.8.: Missed.
DELORAINE.
From Launceston city
Thirty miles by train
Lies the picturesque
District of Deloraine.
Where river anglers indulge
In their breezy sport
And picnic parties
Christmas time resort.
From Launceston city
Excursionists by train
On holidays crowd
To quaint Deloraine.


sdf
" I’ i js-
~aK
mMp
till
mams
■P
■H
m \
ill■
■
WBSrnmmM
Q |
MP
■MI
■
- ' >ip
mm
m
4*
u
%
■k
a
siii
aMggk
mk
i -
nms*
1 V
■'.<
n»«i
■RH
■ Him
«
mmm
?
M
MHHaH
wmmmmmmMMmimvm
'lw
■H
HI
H
\
i
Hi
n
SSfi
■
■
■
«
D
f£SMT
d
m
11
1
Mi
■
■
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2704.
December 9, 1931.
THE WHIRLWIND CAMPAIGN.
TED: “We aren’t making much progress, Jim.”
JIM: “How the devil do you expect us to with this lunatic device of yours fastened to our hacks?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 230 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7 s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
LET US BE HONEST ABOUT IT!
More than half our troubles spring from
our refusal to face the facts. There is some-
thing at the back of our head begging for
leave to warn us; but we want to remember
only the perfections of the girl, so we push
every other thought away. Afterwards there
is domestic misery, just as we would have
expected had we dared to be honest with
ourselves.
All through the years of the boom we
would not face the facts. They were very
plain, too, as we can see to-day. Our ex-
ports year after year were millions less than
our imports, though in order to pay our
foreign interest bill they should have been
millions more; an average of over 30 mil-
lions a year of borrowed money came to us
in the shape of goods; hundreds of thou-
sands of our population were directly and
indirectly dependent on the continuance of
the borrowing boom, though its collapse
sooner or later was as certain as the day;
our foreign debt was piling higher every
year, and we were undertaking to pay the
interest in gold or sterling which we hadn’t
got—what could there be ahead of us but a
crash at the first blast of an unfriendly
wind! Yet we went cheerfully, madly, on.
We would not be honest with ourselves.
When the crash came and the Bruce-Page
Government was turned out, as it deserved
to be for its disgraceful extravagances
and its complete failure to make the posi-
tion safe, Scullin and Theodore came in.
To meet the fall in prices the Bruce-Pages
knew, they must amend the Arbitration
law. The Scullidores either did not know
the facts or if they did know them would
not face them. They got office by promis-
ing, instead, such things as that the North-
ern coalminers, who had been out of the
mines for months, should be back within
a fortnight without suffering in either pay
or hours. They lied to these unfortunate
men. They would not face the facts.
Nevertheless, they made a good begin-
ning. They set out to balance the budget
and restore the balance of trade. Now, both
these things are very important; but they
are only important as means to an end,
and that end national prosperity. You can
balance a budget by merely imposing terri-
fic taxation upon those who still have some
means left. You can balance trade merely
by prohibiting imports and paying out of
taxation bonuses on exports. Instead of
giving employment, however, these measures
will inevitably add to the unemployed. The
difference between the statesman and the
other thing is that the former will balance
his budget and his trade by giving employ-
ment; the latter will reach them by
multiplying unemployment. Whether the
Scullidores are statesmen or the other thing
can be judged by the one fact that there
are over 300,000 unemployed in Australia
to-day. It was simply another refusal to
face the facts. Even at the last election they
raised the specious cry of “No lowering of
the standard of living!” There must be
no reduction of wages, no increase of work-
ing hours—that was what their appeal to
the people to resist the proposed amendment
of the Industrial law meant; it is what their
appeal to the people means to-day. They
would not face the facts then. Fearful of
losing their jobs, they dare not go boldly to
their people now and tell them that a reduc-
tion of nominal wages means nothing; that
what matters is what the wages will buy;
that the struggle to maintain nominal
wages in the teeth of the great fall in
prices of our staples has resulted, not in
upholding the standard of living, but in
lowering it for upwards of 300,000 workers
and their families.
In England there was the same failure to
meet much the same set of facts. A reduc-
tion of money-wages in keeping with the
reduction in prices would not have meant
any loss for the workers; nevertheless,
Ministers fought every suggested reduction,
every proposed concession, thus maintaining
costs of production at a figure so much
higher than those of competitors that
foreign trade fell away enormously, the
army of British unemployed grew prodigi-
ously, and with it the dole, and taxation,
and the staggering deficit. Yet cost-reduc-
tions were even more imperative in Aus-
tralia than in England, because the fall in
the prices of our primary products had
been far greater than in those of manufac-
tured goods. Industrial wages and con-
ditions had been fixed when wheat was
3s. 6d. or more a bushel, wool Is. 6d. or
more a pound and lead £2O or more a
ton. The question was how to maintain
those wages and conditions with all products
fallen to less than half of the old rates.
To that problem Scullin gives no answer.
He may know one, but he has not the
courage to propose it. Theodore has fewer
scruples. Nothing but inflation can do it—
nothing but inflation can serve to pay the
workmen of a country a high price for their
labor while they sell the product of that labor
at a low price. Theodore is the one promi-
nent man in the party who will face that
fact: he is the one prominent man in the
party who says cynically that, if men will
insist upon getting more than they can earn,
then the only way to pay them is by debas-
ing the currency in which it is done.
The Lang Plan is merely a hybrid—the
Scullidore Plan crossed with Woolloomooloo
and Surry Hills. Its group or push want to
hold up wages, too, but are less particular
how they do it. Having learned a few
things from Russia, though not many, they
say, in effect, that if there is not enough
money to pay the high wages they demand,
then what is shorr must be made up by rob-
bing somebody. Interest takes money;
therefore repudiate interest. The dole costs
money; but since the dole is necessary in
order to remove the compelling influence
of unemployment upon the wage rate, there-
fore put on a 55.-in-the-£ unemployment
tax. High salaries to “the heads” cost
money; therefore cut “the heads,” Judges
and all, down to £5OO a year. It is Com-
munism without its “guts”; it hasn’t the
courage, for instance, to conscript labor. It
has been practised throughout this year in
N. S. Wales, with the result that a State
which, after two exceptional seasons, ought
to be well back towards prosperity, is sunk
in a' deeper morass of unemployment and
distress than ever it was, with an appalling
deficit in prospect.
But in essentials the two parties are one
party, these Langs and Scullidores. They
neither will face the facts; neither will tell
the great body of Labor voters that no
power on earth can maintain wages in the
face of so catastrophic a fall in the value
of the country’s productions. The history
of the Labor party in the Commonwealth
during the past two years, like the history
of the Labor party in Britain, has been the
histor3 r of a long struggle to do the impos-
sible by any honest means. In Britain they
have at least begun to face the facts, though
it is very doubtful whether even yet they
are looking them squarely in the face. We
shall have to do it in Australia.
And because Labor will not do it, here
or anywhere else, it is no use in the present
crisis. If it were wiser, or if its leaders
were less hungry, it would stand back and
gladly let others do the governing, just as
it did' in the ’nineties.
WHAT MANUFACTURES HAVE DONE
FOR US.
Objects to be kept always in view in Aus-
tralia are:—
To reduce imports of merchandise so that exports
of merchandise will fully pay for them.
And will also pay the country’s bill for interest
on oversea liabilities of all sorts, for this isn’t a
country like England, which has millions of interest
and dividends falling due to it every few hours from
foreign investments, but is a country which is in
debt up to the neck and is due to send a fearsome
lot of interest out.
And it wants its exports to leave a safe margin so
that it can slowly reduce its oversea debt, as it is
pledged to do under the sinking fund agreement. If
it doesn’t it may get into serious trouble, for it
has big old debts falling due at all sorts of times
for many years to come, and the creditor may not
be able to renew some of them, he having had a
very rude awakening himself.
There is no lack of people who are ready
to declare that this country should increase
its exports of primary products instead of
keeping its imports of manufactured goods
down to the minimum. But we have found
that to rely on somebody at the far end
of things to pay us enough value for primary
products to meet our bills for manufactured
goods is depending on a chance to pay a
certainty.
When Australia has reduced its abnormal
importing bill to safe dimensions, either it
can manufacture the goods for itself and
have some work and wages to the good,
or it can cultivate self-denial and lead the
simple life in a loincloth, like Gandhi. If
it decides for work and wages it has the
satisfaction of knowing that the market is
here, right at hand. If the price of the local
manufactured product goes up, as some
Freetraders say it will, then the maker will
get more; and if it goes down, then the
buyer will pay less, so local employment
and wages can’t be an all-round failure.
Factory industry has some advantages over
the growing of grain for a precarious and
distant customer, as it doesn’t require a
network of railways built with money bor-
rowed at absurdly high interest, and it
doesn’t assert a right to have its products
carried on these lines at the lowest possible
rates. Also it doesn’t involve the furnish-
ing of rural banks and departments for
making advances to settlers, and it doesn’t
depend on direct and indirect bounties to
the same extent as do the sugar and butter
and wine and cotton undertakings, with the
wheat undertaking now eagerly joining the
list of applicants. On the other hand, the
tariff brings money into the Treasury.
The importing class in Australia has
always claimed to be a close follower of
British precedent, and to have the pomp
and respectability of British precedent
behind it. The claim is brazen and bogus.
Imports are carried to Britain mostly by
British ships, and are paid for with British
money. They are brought to Australia by
non-Australian ships and paid for to a
considerable extent by money borrowed
abroad. This country has incurred outside
debts to the extent of about £50,000,000
gold money in a single year because it
imported so much more foreign stuff than
it could honestly pay for, and it was pre-
tended, by devices which should have landed
somebody in gaol, that the money was
wanted for “reproductive public works,”
certain profitless jobs being paid for here
with paper money to keep the lie afloat.
The importing policy didn’t pay high wages
in Britain, where it stood on its own feet.
The sham importing policy professed to
pay high wages in Australia, but only did it
while the big loans lasted.
Australia has practically balanced its
budget for three months, that being about
the first sane quarter in 12 years of madness.
But it is a very precarious balance. The
Australian Government hasn’t refunded the
£30,000,000 or so of gold coin that it com-
mandeered from the joint-stock banks, and
it is already lending an ear to thieves of
one sort and another who say the com-
pulsory loan should be turned into a per-
manent steal. Bad times will probably
return, and some future Government will
want to commandeer the gold over again,
and if there is none to commandeer it will
be a hard, cold time for posterity. Then
the Commonwealth Bank in Australia hasn’t
been restored yet to a satisfactory footing.
Its gold reserve is down to a very small
amount, apart from that held as security for,
the note issue; this holding is a trifle over
£10,000,000, whereas it was over double that
sum less than three years ago. The Gov-
ernment owes about £30,000,000 in London
payable on demand, and the most of this
is due to the Commonwealth Bank. If the
evil course of events forces the bank to
ask the Government to pay up, it will be bad
for both of them, as Commonwealth notes
don’t circulate in London. It is at this time
above all others when the importing faction
raises its voice to say that the tariff is
“prohibitive,” and that it should be lowered
so that we will import more even if we
can’t pay for it, and even if we give less
work to our own people in our own factories
in the process.
The favorite accusation is that Australian
manufactures cost too much. This gibe
is thrown around with a disregard for truth
which amounts to a mental disease. But
even if it were true, the average wages
in Australian factories were given as £2ll
per annum for 1929-30 (men, women, boys
and girls all averaged), which is more than
twice the figure of 1913; and the much-
cursed manufacturer didn’t go looking for
these high wages as a matter of cussedness
and for his own pleasure.
WHAT THE WAR IN MANCHURIA
IS ALL ABOUT.
Australians should be actively interested
in Japan’s behavior in Manchuria because
it follows so closely the technique of all
performances of the sort. The Dutch fol-
lowed it in Indo-China the Dutch in Java
and the British in India; no doubt the
Romans followed it in Britain, though the
details are scanty. The Japanese found
themselves owners of the South Manchurian
railway as one of the results of their success-
ful war with Russia. Possession is nine
points of the law, and the remaining point
gives little trouble if you have sufficient
troops upon the spot. In due course
Japan’s rights in Manchuria were legalised
by treaty with China which gave the
Chinese Government the privilege of buying
back the whole concern after a period of
years. The Jap proceeded to make his inter-
ests in Manchuria so enormously valuable
that no Chinese Government would ever
have sufficient cash to pay the price of them.
Having turned the gentle Koreans into Japan-
ese subjects of the Mikado, he let them
emigrate into Manchuria to the tune of a
couple of millions; otherwise Manchuria has
never attracted the inhabitants of Nippon
to any great extent. The business of turning
the strip of land on either side of the
railway into Japanese territory, though
nominally under Chinese jurisdiction, went
on. Schools, yoshiwaras, Buddhist temples,
factories and industries of all kinds multi-
plied exceedingly.
Under the picturesque, if feeble, rule of
the Manchu emperors, Chinese enterprise
in Manchuria was negligible. When the
Manchus were sent packing and the
Emperor Hsuan-tung became plain Mr. Pu
Yi, a change became apparent; and after
17 years of trial and tribulations the
Republic was taking an active interest
in its vast possession. Nearly 20,000,000
Chinese had migrated into Manchuria,
which now, in truth, had become a Chinese
province instead of a colony.
But the Japanese had a stranglehold on
the country by virtue of the railroad, and
there was only one way in which the
National Government could break a mono-
poly that sent all the trade to the Japan-
ese port of Dairen —by building a railway
of its own which would divert some of the
trade to a port of it own making. British,
French and American money was available,
and the railway began to grow, despite
bitter Japanese opposition. The romance
of this silent battle of the railways is a
Inrio; suffice it to say that during the
Great War Japan gained on her competi-
tors, but began to lose ground in the peace
that followed.
It was in order to make up this lost
ground that Japan recently risked being
made an outlaw, by seizing Chinese arsenals,
bombing Chinese villages and occupying
Chinese cities. It is true that Chinese have
committed outrages on Japanese subjects,
but Japanese subjects have also committed
outrages on Chinese subjects. It is part
of the technique of imperialism to use
private crimes to justify international
crimes. Thus the Protestant Kaiser seized
a magnificent harbor and a large slice of
Chinese soil in Shantung in order to assuage
his sorrow over the murder of two Roman
Catholic German missionaries.
The rest of the proceedings in Manchuria
follow closely the precedent in such cases.
When Raffles occupied Singapore to pre-
vent the Dutch getting hold of it, he
legalised his action by making a runaway
pretender from Johore Sultan of the island
and then receiving from his grateful
Majesty the title deeds of his possessions.
When the Chinese republicans chased the
Manchu emperor off the throne in 1911, the
Japanese Government gave the lad protec-
tion. Later they provided him with a house
in Tientsin and pin-money for his concu-
bines. Now they are reported to have
brought him out of cold storage, with the
object of putting him on the ancient ances-
tral throne of Mukden. If the Manchurians
object, the Emperor will call the Mikado to
his assistance; and that chivalrous monarch
will immediately respond. The new Emperor
will then, no doubt, make him a present
of his sovereignty, and thus one more act
will be made legal.
One of the most significant features of
the present situation is that both British
and American Governments appear to be
favorable to the Japanese action. This
means that British and American interests
have been placated in some way. When
President Wilson went to Paris he quite
innocently demanded that all secret treaties
should be laid on the table, and nobody was
more staggered than his own Foreign
Office. The worthy man seems to have
been unaware that his own country had
come to a secret agreement with Japan to
further Japanese interests against China,
that being the price Japan demanded for
allowing China to join in the war to save
the world for democracy. _ . .
The lesson for Australia is that things like
this are always likely to happen to small
nations without influential friends in high
places. Membership of the British Empire
gives it influential friends at present. But
too much of the unity of the Empire
rests upon sentiment; and sentiment is so
fickle that people who 15 years ago were
fiercely hating the Germans are now finding
their virtues superior to those of Frenchmen.
The League of Nations is another friend
of a sort. The league is still in its nonage,
but it has already done one good thing in
creating an international conscience. Japan’s
frantic endeavors to get the league to call
it a good boy while allowing it to continue
to be a naughty boy show that the eminent
statesmen of Nippon have a bad conscience.
The trouble is that the league, which is
also anxious to have a good conscience, will
probably find a way of obliging her, when,
if it had the courage of its convictions, it
ought to view the dispute from a world
standpoint and compel the parties to sub-
mit to arbitration. To oblige the Japanese
to withdraw from Manchuria when they
have done so much for its development is
outside the realm of practical politics; but
to allow the country to become the cockpit
for rival imperialisms is another matter.
The fact that the Empress Nagako has pre-
sented the Minister of War with 300 ban-
dages rolled by herself and the ladies of the
Court, and that the War Office has received
300,000 comfort bags for the army at the
front, indicates that Japan now imagines
that it is fighting for its national honor
against a wicked and unscrupulous aggres-
sor.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The English Worth 13s. 9d.
In the middle of last week the English £
was worth $3.30, approximately 13s. 9d.
The question begins to be asked whether it
will ever get back to par; whether, to put
the matter bluntly, it will not be better to
do what France and Italy and Germany
did, and “stabilise” the £ sterling at some-
thing a good deal less than $4.86. Scores of
bankers and economists will agree that it
is the most practical thing to do; and they
quote the report of the McKenna-Keynes
group in the Macmillan Commission. On
the other hand, all those who will hate
to see the English sterling depreciated in
terms of the American dollar will hesitate to
give any scheme of devaluation their sup-
port.
Two main advantages can be got from
devaluation. It is, in essence, a composition
with creditors. But not with all creditors.
Suppose Britain devalued its £, fixing the
value at, say, $3.36 (=l4s.), then all
foreigners who had invested in British public
securities, interest and principal payable in
sterling, would get something worth to them
14s. instead of 20s. They were promised
£1 sterling and they would be paid £1 ster-
ling; the difference would be that what they
were promised was worth $4.86, or one
golden sovereign, whereas what they would
get would be $3.36, or seven-tenths of a
sovereign. And because a vast amount of


DOUBLE
CHRISTMAS HUMBER
NEXT WEEK
The Ordinary Weekly Issue
and the
Christmas Bulletin
in one.
Stories by Katharine Prichard, Vance
Palmer, J. H. M. Abbott, Bernard Cronin,
E. V. Timms and other Best Australian
Writers.
Fifty Drawings by Norman Lindsay,
Scorfield, Leason, Percival, the late Alf
Vincent, Souter, Minns and all the best-
known men.
Poetry by the 20 Best Australian Verse-
writers.
Old Drawings by Phil May, “Hop” and
G. R. Ashton reproduced.
All for Sixpence.
foreign (especially American) money is in-
vested in Britain, Britain would thus rid
itself of a heavy burden.
The question of honesty arises, however.
Can Britain do this thing and still hold
up its head? Well, what are the facts.
Pre-war the French franc was 19.3 to the £;
the par rate is now 124.21 to the £. There
were 19.3 Italian lire to the £ before the
war; the par rate to-day is 92.46 to the £.
And neither France nor Italy is hanging her
head in shame. The circumstances of &
bankruptcy or a composition determine the
moral quality of it. Nobody, for example,
thinks very much less of Australia for having
two or tliree months ago made a composi-
tion with its domestic creditors, in effect
writing their £ down from 20s. to 15s. 6d ;
For the moment the idea of the English £
being depreciated in terms of the American
$ seems more than national pride can bear ;
but that pride may be less stubborn than we
might expect. We shall no doubt find plenty
of reasons for justifying devaluation; above
all, we shall remember that, while Britain
poured out money like water, paying not
only her own way but backing the bills
of her allies, America was laying the founda-
tions of that colossal fortune which has so
disturbed the world’s financial equilibrium.
The other advantage to be got out of
devaluation would probably be temporary,
yet might be substantial. About it there is
the same uncomfortable feeling that it
would not be quite honest and aboveboard.
In effect, the idea is to measure with one
yardstick when buying and with another
when selling. It is hoped that, in spite
of devaluation, wages would not be
affected in Britain, while the product of
the labor would be greater in terms of gold.
This very thing has been happening in
Australia: for nearly 12 months we have
had temporary devaluation, our £ being
worth only about 155.; yet, though our pro-
ducers for export have been thus getting a
bonus of anything up to 30 p.c., the wages
paid in Australia, including those paid by
the producers of the exported products, have
not gone up at all. In plain English,_ de-
valuation from this point of view is a
scheme for making the worker think he wins,
while beating him handsomely.
At present our £ is worth 9s. in gold money.
If through its burdens, borne because others
have shirked some they should have carried,
Britain is driven to devalue its £, Australia
will no doubt link up; but we shall surely
struggle against devaluation upon devalua-
tion. A permanent writing-down to any-
thing even in the neighborhood of _ 10s. is
something that a country in Australia’s cir-
cumstances might well be ashamed to con-
template. And, anyhow, the substantial
benefits we should get from it as a nation
ire not worth mentioning. There would be
sectional advantages, of course, _ but. of
national advantages, such as Britain might
derive, hardly anything.
p
The Government and Communism.
A few days after the Communist-directed
shipping strike collapsed, and a few days
before the Communist-directed railway
strike broke out in Queensland, the proceed-
ings of the Communists in Australia were
debated in the Senate. Mention was made
of the “Red Leader,” the latest addition
to the group of Communist publications,
and of its Red versifier who wrote that the
Empire
....totters toJls destined doom
Upon the tide of Revolution’s flood.
An epitaph upon a leprous tomb:
A page of history written deep in blood.
The “Red Leader” came out in Sydney
in August with the blessing of Losovsky,
“secretary Red International Labor Unions”;
of the Pan-Pacific Secretariat (“American,
Chinese, Japanese, Indian, Philippine and
other sections”); of Joe Schelley, “Marine
Transport Group”; of E. F. A. Chapman,
“State secretary of the Railwaymen’s Union,”
whose executive recently applied for
“affiliation” with Losovsky’s concern, and
explained that the poor damned Australian
worker has hitherto been “insular.”
Ministers were asked whether their feeble
Government proposed to do anything—any-
thing at all—about the “Red Leader” and
Red ruffians in general. It was pointed
out that people in N.S.W. country districts,
fed up with the insolence of Communist
recruiting agents, and alarmed at the indif-
ference of the authorities at Canberra and
Sydney to the sinister growth of the move-
ment to overthrow our institutions, were
taking the law into their own hands. “The
present Government has done all that is in
its power to minimise the danger of Com-
munism,” protested Assistant-Minister
Dooley. “What has it done?” asked Senator
McLachlan. “It is giving them no en-
couragement,” replied Assistant-Minister
Dooley.
“No encouragement”! The first impulse
is to laugh, but it is no laughing matter.
Mr. Dooley’s Government is under a sacred
obligation to “protect every State against
invasion and, on the application of the
Executive Government of the State, against
domestic violence.” Here is an open con-
spiracy, palpably financed by a foreign
Power, to seize property on a vast scale and
bring down this British Commonwealth in
blood. The Government watches it grow,
stands idly by while the agents of the
foreign Power enrol reckless out-of-works in
what is intended to be a Soviet army, even
grants them the use of the mails for their
revolutionary propaganda at newspaper-
postage rates; and its John Braidwood
Dooley whines that it is giving them “no
encouragement”!
Said Mr. Lyons in his policy speech:
“Anything necessary to destroy Communism
and to deal with Communists we will do
promptly.” Said Dr. Page: “No action can
be too drastic that will rid us of this
menace; no policy too strong.” But Mr.
Scullin said nothing; Mr. Beasley said noth-
ing. Ten thousand words, there or there-
abouts, were spoken by each of these
gentlemen in “opening the campaign”; but
Communism was not among them. They
are not mentioning the evil thing; and so,
as Mr. Dooley would argue, they are “not
encouraging it.”
p
Mr. Beasley Has a Chance.
The astonishing Mr. Beasley, leader of the
Lang party, would have no difficulty in find-
ing employment for everybody. There is
abundance of work; all you need do is to set
up a truly National Bank and pay out the
wages. The existing Commonwealth Bank
isn’t, of course, a truly National Bank.
When it advanced money to local bodies
lately it insisted that the works on which the
cash would be spent must show a profit.
That proves what sort of a bank it is, put-
ting profit before humanity!
If you pile up a mountain of dirt, a mile
high and it doesn’t give a return, what good
is the security? And if the security is
no good, why trouble to do the work? Why,
in short, require men to work? Certainly
they are paid for not working now; but they
get the dole out of taxes, and Mr. Beasley
would pay them out of the coffers of the
National Bank. He would “create credit.”
But you can’t pay a man with credit; you
pay a man with notes. Therefore what the
astonishing Mr. Beasley means is that the
National Bank shall print notes to meet its
requirements. But who is going to pay off
the notes? Obviously they can’t be paid
off; so that for every new job there must
be a new issue of notes. But notes are no
good to eat; the workmen to whom they .
are paid will want to pass them on to the
baker. The baker, however, will already
have a sackful. He will have taken them
to the bank; but the bank will have said,
“Yes, we will accept them, but we can only
give you other similar notes for them. And
we can’t allow you any interest on them,
because our safes are already full of them.”
At about this stage people would begin to
doubt whether all this paper was much good,
and they would begin to offer it at a dis-
count. This would mean that the worker
would find that he had to give two or three
of these notes to buy something which
formerly he could get for one note. That
ig the beginning of inflation.
The astonishing Mr. Beasley says that we
needn’t be afraid of inflation: there can’t
be inflation when the notes are represented
by actual value, whether the undertaking
shows a profit or not. Ten thousand men
are at work for two years building a dam.
There is the dam, a large hole in the ground
and a large heap of dirt above it; but if it
doesn’t show a money profit what good to
those men is the hole in the ground and the
heap of dirt above the ground? And how
can the community pay off the notes which
the work cost except out of money-profit?
They can’t whack up the heaps of dirt and
the hole.
Mr. Beasley can do Australia a great
public service. The State consists simply of
Mr. Beasley multiplied a few million times.
What the State can do Mr. Beasley can do in
part. If it doesn’t matter to the State whether
a work shows a profit or not, it can’t matter
to Mr. Beasley, who is merely part of the
State. Let Mr. Beasley, therefore, employ
a thousand men. It doesn’t matter much
on what —since profit is of no importance.
Mr. Beasley will pay with his IOU. Mr.
Beasley, you say, has no money? But
neither has the State; one is just as well
off in that respect as the other. If Mr.
Beasley can’t go on giving lOU’s indefi-
nitely, neither can the State, which is merely
Mr. Beasley multiplied many times.
Let the unemployed put this up to Mr.
Beasley. Let him do his little bit first. Let
him show that profit doesn’t matter. Let
him put his share* of the unemployed on to
a job—say 100 men, The Bulletin will
not ask for more. Let him pay them with
his lOU’s. If these are not good money for
the purpose, then the Commonwealth’s lOU’s
are not good money for the purpose either,
since the Commonwealth is merely Mr.
Beasley multiplied many times. Let Mr.
Beasley try his scheme.' If he isn’t game,
then the unfortunate unemployed can make
quite sure that he is merely deluding them
with arrant nonsense.
♦
Westralia’s Secession Movement.
James Edmond urges the maintenance of
the Federal Union:—
The passionate appeal made by the secession leaders
to the people of Westralia is built largely on the
fact that the expenditure of the State has increased
immensely under Federation. It is therefore insisted
that the increase has. been entirely caused by
Federation, that secession can undo the evil and
put back the clock, and that increase of expenditure
is an unmixed evil however it is caused, and however
the money is spent. To come to details, which are
better than shouts and shrieks and generalities, the
following are some notable items in Westralian
expenditure incurred during Federation times:—■
War Pensions . . . . . . .. £787,319
Old Age and Invalid Pensions .. 692,798
Babies’ Bonuses .. .. .. 44,545
Westralia’s Share Federal Parliament
Expenses, about ... .. 42,060
£1,566,722
As regards the pensions and baby bonus, the Com-
monwealth collects the amounts from the people,
mostly by indirect taxation. If Westralia secedes
to avoid Federal taxation, either it can ditch its
aged and crippled, which will lead to execration, or
it can tax its people itself to the requisite extent
and explain to them that secession won’t be a
financial saving, under this -heading at all events.
In the grand old pre-Federation days, Westralia didn’t
provide allowances for the aged and infirm, but it
can hardly go back to that system, however much
going back might help to make the finances of
seceded Westralia look better than those of Fede-
rated Westralia.
In 1901 the amount spent on the working expenses
of Westralian State railways was £1,044,920. In
1930 it was £3,411,642. This difference of
£2,366,722 is one of the heart-breaking increases
in the burden of expenditure under the Federal
system, and the burden is presented in a large
general way to the local taxpayer as something to be
strenuously dealt with. But the State Government,
at present represented by Jimmy Mitchell, is the
responsible party. It has been building new lines
at a lavish rate and going the pace generally.
Further, the interest on the State public debt was
£692,092 in the last pre-Federation year, and in
1930 it stood at £3,500,048. This shocking in-
crease happened under or during Federation, but
Federation had nothing to do with it. The loans
involved were exclusively those incurred and spent
by local politicians, much being expended on the
lines which added £2,366,722 per annum to the
railway working expenditure. But since the Federal
Parliament made United Australia responsible for
the liabilities of all its members, there has been a
tendency to say that United Australia is respon-
sible for State misgovernment as well as for State
liabilities, and to find an excuse for making it a
present of the State liabilities at some future date.
The underlying cause of the whole business is
probably the same restlessness and dissatisfaction
which makes so many women crowd to Reno (Nevada,
U.S.A.) in search of divorce. There is a feeling
among local politicians that Westralia, as the
biggest self-governing province in the world with
the possible exception of some place in Russia, is
too big to be just a province. It should be a whole
Dominion, with a Governor-General instead of a
Governor, and a Prime Minister instead) of a
Premier, and it should have its own Tall Commis-
sioner in London, and it should talk to the British
Government direct as an equal, and be defined as an
equal under the Statute of Westminster. The con-
stant complaint that Westralia has only five members
in the House of Reps., that being the number to
which its population entitles it, explains the situ-
ation very well.
There might be no serious objection to secession
if the secessionists would present a workable scheme
for relieving the Commonwealth (the remaining five
States) of their responsibility for Westralia’s debt,
which, for its population, is a record. This can
only be managed if the secessionists have a plan
for seeing Westralia’s thousands of creditors and
getting them to surrender, for no compensation, the
protection afforded them by the Federal endorsement
on the back of the bill. But it is impossible to
talk about this problem to the masses without
explaining that the debt will remain after Separation;
and if the masses understand that, they will probably
ask why they should have the bother of separating
so that Jimmy Mitchell may be a full-blown Prime
Minister like a Gladstone or Salisbury or Beacons-
field, instead of a mere Premier ranking with a mob
of five others.
p
Lang and His Leg. Council.
The queer idea seems to have got hold of
some people, Mr. Lang among them, that it
is the right of a Government of N. S. Wales
to put through the Leg. Council every-
thing that it wants to put through. When-
ever, therefore, some provision or other
in one of Mr. Lang’s bills is amended or
rejected by the Council, there is instant
talk of making another demand upon the
Governor for further appointments to the
Chamber.
No Government has the right to expect
that every i shall be dotted and every t
crossed exactly as it desires. It has not
that right so far as the popular House is
concerned. If it had, the sitting of Parlia-
ment would be quite superfluous, inasmuch
as laws would be no more than Govern-
ment proclamations. Still less has a Gov-
ernment the right to expect complete
control over the second Chamber. Our Con-
stitution both forewarns and forearms us
against the usurpation. of power by cor-
rupt or unprincipled men who may in
divers ways get control of the popular
House. Ours is a very wise Constitution,
much of it unwritten, but embodying the
experience of many centuries. There are
not many types of scoundrels and fanatics
with whom our Constitution-makers have
not been brought into contact; and safe-
guards have been provided against them.
In our own case one of the safeguards is the
Governor, representing the Crown; another
is the Leg. Council. The moment that
these two institutions pass completely into
the control of Ministers, those tremendous
buttresses of the rights of the people are
swept away.
Commonwealth Bank and Exchange.
p
Every Friday from now on the Common-
wealth Bank will announce the rate of
exchange on London—that is to say, the
price it will pay for Australian money in
London and for English money in Australia.
Thus it takes another definite step in its
development as a Central Bank.
The first announcement is that, until
another change is made, £125 10s. in Aus-
tralian money will buy £lOO sterling in
London. This will, of course, affect the
primary industries. But that cannot be
helped. “It is no part of the board’s
duties,” the bank says in a statement which
is full of wisdom—“it is no part of the
board’s duties to direct national policy;
and if the currency of the countiy is to be
manipulated for the purpose of advantage to
sectional interests, this is a matter for
Parliament.” If the boards of private
banks think that either their own interests
or the nation’s interests would be best
served by a policy of Protection or Free-
trade, by a policy of inflation through the
exchange rate or otherwise, they have a
complete right to advocate that policy,
whatever it ma.y be. The position of the
Commonwealth Bank is quite different; and
at all costs every effort to give it a political
bias must be resisted.
What is to be very deeply regretted is
that certain public journals and public
men who have been conspicuous in the
struggle to keep the Commonwealth Bank
non-political when the pressure came from
the Labor side have apparently had no hesi-
tation in joining in the clamor to influence
the bank to do something to serve another
section at the expense of the rest of the
community.
♦
The Beastly Defence “Policy.”
The Scullin Government did away with
all that was left of compulsory military
training, closed Duntroon and the naval
training college, rationed the instructional
staff of the army (though not the Defence
Department clerks), and laid up all the war-
ships except two cruisers, two submarines
and a destroyer. Mr. Scullin believes that
Australia can be defended by the making
of speeches at Geneva, at which Japan
snapped its fingers until the military situa-
tion in Manchuria was deemed favorable.
Mr. Scullin did not breathe a word about
national defence in his policy speech at
Richmond. Mr. Beasley—nine months ago
his understudy, now his bitter enemy—
glanced at the subject in a sentence of 27
words:—
We shall pursue a prudent policy for the defence
of Australia, refusing at all times to participate in
any war other than one of invasion of Australia.
Article XVI of the covenant of the
League of Nations says: “Should any mem-
ber of the league resort to war in disregard
of its covenants under articles XII, XIII or
XV, it shall be deemed to have committed
an act of war against all other members of
the league.... and it shall be the duty of the
council in such case to recommend to the
several Governments concerned what effect-
ive military or naval force the members of
the league shall Severally contribute to the
armed forces to be used to protect the cove-
nants of the league.” So the policy of the
Beasley group (which is portion of the Lang
mob) cuts out the League of Nations. It
also, by saying in effect that Australia will
in no circumstances send help to Britain,
forfeits any right to claim the protection of
the British Navy. Nor can Australia, if
the Beasley “policy” is adopted, expect the
sister Dominions to make common cause
with it in an extremity. We are not to
fight beside the Maorilanders if Maoriland
is invaded; we are not to bestir ourselves if
an enemy occupies Moresby or Norfolk
Island; we are not to strike at him in the
Pacific with our warships. Surrendering the
initiative, and so giving him all the advan-
tage of surprise, selfish, isolated and (in all
probability) ill-armed, we are to wait till he
chooses to descend upon the continent and
walk through us, as the Spaniards walked
through the Peruvians and Mexicans.
Mr. Beasley did not go to the war, and
our overseas kinsmen may rest assured that
he does not speak for Australia, in this
matter or any other.
* ♦
The Elections in Maoriland.
Maoriland’s Coalition Government comes
back from the polls with a comfortable
majority of 24 in a House of 80. The
amalgamation with the Reformers, as was
to be expected, has driven a few more
nails into the coffin of the United (once
Liberal) party, which is now reduced from 24
to 19. The Reformers gained two seats by
the pact, and number 28 in the new House.
Labor added four to its army, which now
stands at 24. The Coalition, in addition to
its majority of 24, can command the votes
of four Independents whom it didn’t
sponsor, but who are pledged to its support.
The remaining five are freelances. Only
eight members take a seat for the first time.
The only Minister defeated was Davy
Jones (Mid-Canterbury), who held the port-
folio of Agriculture. A. D. McLeod,
Massey’s first lieutenant, who stood as a
straight-out Reformer in Wairarapa, and
defeated the Coalitionist-United member,
is earmarked for Jones’s job. The rural
vote, which has a 28 p.c. advantage in
value, was overwhelmingly in favor of the
Government led by farmer Forbes and
farmer Coates and buttressed Ministerially
by farmers Ransom, Cobbe and Hamilton.
The Labor party, which pinned its faith to
domestic loans and a central reserve bank
as alternatives to retrenchment, had its
successes entirely in metropolitan electo-
rates. The sharp division between city and
country political thought is one of the most
significant developments of the day.


TOWERS^COMFORT^SERYICE
aw*
HUP"" 01
BB DO 0 r 1
The “Royal York,”
Toronto, largest and
most up-to-date hotel
in the British Empire
flp-
i r,
m
& DO
Canadian Pacific Hotels
YOU’LL never forget Canadian
Pacific Hotel service; it is so
complete; so dilferent nothing that
will make for comfort and pleasure is
forgotten. It is this service, linked
with delightful appointments and ex-
cellent cuisine which makes C.P.R.
Hotels so famous the world over. A
chain of fifteen C.P.R. Hotels cater to
the needs of travellers at all cities and
resorts on the C.P.R. route to Eng-
land. Write for literature and details to
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney. 1/31.9
C4N4DIAN Mint
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
J J he World's Great estSJrave! System
sdf
Bill®
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still,
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia,
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Money must be a servant, not a dic-
tator,” says an electioneering notice under
a photo, of J. T. Lang, That’s right. Money
must not be allowed to dictate; it must
leave us entirely free —for instance, to pay
the American bondholders their interest,
while withholding payment from the G.S.B.
depositors.
With Paterson (Gippsland), Prowsu
(Forrest), Jos. Francis (Moreton) and
Corser (Wide Bay) returned unopposed, and
Eden-Monaro abandoned by Cusack (that
incomprehensible person is risking his
deposit in Cowper), the Lyons-Pages have
five seats in hand. No Labor member has
had a walkover —the first time this has hap-
pened since 1903.
“Mr. Lang sat behind Mr. Beasley at the Sydney
Town Hall meeting and leaned forward occasionally
as if to whisper something.... Mr. Beasley said,
‘We will introduce legislation nationalising banking,
having only one bank in Australia.’ ”
WHISPERER: “I suppose that’s all right, but
it limits a statesman’s opportunities.
Only one bank to burst”!
The bright feature of an otherwise mis-
spent political life was that the Scullidore
Government put the trade balance straight.
It cut down imports till, in tlje last days
before its defeat, they, along with the bill
for interest on external loans raised by its
predecessors and other- external liabilities,
were all paid by exports, though the slump
in the value of exports was phenomenal.
When such an unprecedented job needed
doing in such a hurry the workmanship had
a tendency to be crude in places, but still it
was workmanship and it served its purpose.
One bad feature of the rush election is
that the pre-selection swindle has been
worked as it was never worked before. Even
the Country party smudged its record by
refusing to “endorse” W. M. Fleming,
who has nominated against the colorless
Gardner in Robertson (N.S.W.) ; and Flem-
ing was once its deputy-leader! But the
U.A.P. bosses were very plainly told that
they would not be permitted to thrust W.
M. Hughes and Wally Marks. on the elec-
torates which they let down in 1929. So
Norman Cowper is running in North Syd-
ney as well as Hughes, and Eric Harrison
in Wentworth as well as Marks; and,
thanks to the A.F.A.L., Martin electors who
don’t care for Holman will be able to make
Macartney Abbott their first choice.
Speacock’s casting vote saved the Hogans
from defeat on Argyle’s no-confidence
motion. But for the keenness of Ministers
in respect to one pair (eight members had
paired) the Government would have been in
a minority of one. There was no hesitation
on the Speaker’s part in declaring himself
with the nocs, and nobody on the Opposition
side, to which he belongs, took exception to
his vote, though it established a Yic. prece-
dent. Unless Hogan is shifted by Saturday
he will then have been two years in office.
Queensland continues to get value for
money expended in unemployed relief. Save
in exceptional cases no cash or any form of
convertible security is handed out unless a
return has been given, so s.p. shops and
pubs, which in N.S.W. drive a brisk trade
in dole-tickets, get no benefit. A big party
of relief workers has been employed in open-
ing up the Upper Burnett country. In a
few months 200 miles of good roads have
been constructed, with the result that 214
fresh farm areas have been surveyed, thrown
open and snapped up.
The Prime Minister at Adelaide: —
The Opposition asked me to form a National Gov
ernment. I spurned the offer.
Ramsay MacDonald, of course, might descend
to such depths, but the idea of putting-
country above party, even in a time of the
direst crisis, could only fill Scullin with
virtuous horror.
Defeated in the Leg. Council on its bill
to postpone the municipal elections in the
County of Cumberland, the Lang Govern-
ment had the effrontery to postpone them
by proclamation, alleging, in the terms of
a section of the Local Government .Act,
that it was “impracticable and inconvenient”
to hold them on Dec. 5; practicable and
convenient to hold them the day after New
Year’s Day! Some of the councils which
can ill afford to prepare for another poll
were inclined to' ignore the proclamation, the
legality of which in the extraordinary cir-
cumstances was at least doubtful; and it
is a pity they didn’t. The reason for the
postponement was made plain when the
country results came in. Lang candidates
were defeated nearly everywhere and routed
in most districts. They even went down on
the Newcastle and southern coalfields and at
Lithgow (which was Labor years before
adult franchise was introduced in 1928) ;
and Luchetti, Lang candidate for the
Federal Macquarie seat, and a brother of
the Lazzarini who' misrepresents Werriwa
were among the rejected. Their faction will
get a still worse licking on Dec. 19.
The N.S.W. Upper House, stuffed afresh
with trade-union secretaries and organisers,
passed a new clause declaring all mort-
gages null and void. If the State took
its Legislature seriously it would have hardly
been worth while to open its shop _or office
next morning. But it merely said some-
thing like the remark ascribed to Bismarck
about a madhouse full of monkeys, and
assumed that the blunder would be put
right at the next lucid interval of the
caucus. At the same time these gyrations
excite distrust. Some day Macquarie-street
may forget the lucid interval.
While Lang has shut up the Macquarie-
street shop so that he and his mob may
have leisure to advocate his precious plan
and slam the Scullidore faction, the Queens-
land Parliament is carrying on. It is
the proper thing to do. State members are
paid by State electors to attend to State
business. There is nothing to stop them
meddling in Federal affairs at week-ends, or
when the State Parliament is not sitting,
though N.S.W. State politicians would be
better employed at those times in praying for
forgiveness for their sins against the coun-
try and trying to improve their alleged
minds and mend their manners. To draw
State pay and flash State railway and
tramway passes while abandoning their
State duties to meddle in Federal affairs is
downright dishonesty.
There was a big roll-up of Hugheseliers
when the party nomination for North Syd-
ney was decided, but anti-Hugheseliers were
in still greater force. Ex-Attorney-General
Davy Hall, putting the case for Billy, said
that if that gentleman stood alone the party
would be able to send him into other elec-
torates, where he would be “able to deal
with the Labor politicians in their own
way.” “On the principle of setting a rat
to catch a rat,” said a rude interjector; and
David sat down. Hughes, when told that
speeches were limited to ten minutes,
“showed distinct annoyance,” according to
the friendly “Sun”- —“glared at the chair-
man” in the “Herald’s” version. He has
since repeated the assertion that he would
“Words I spin while shadows fall.
Will they put me in at all?”
be a tower of strength on Opposition plat-
forms if North Sydney were presented to
him again. But a speaker who’called him-
self Labor from 1901 to 1917 and National-
ist for the ensuing 11 years; who, elected
as a Ministerial supporter in 1928, turned
the Government out in 1929; who defeated
a Nationalist that year by means of Labor
votes, and has since been Australian-party
and U.A.P. —wouldn’t he really be a lia-
bility rather than an asset?
“Glad to meet you, Mr. Theodore. You’re
the gentleman that two years ago
promised us Maitland miners that you’d
see we soon had our jobs back, aren’t
you? Well, Mr. Theodore, we’re still
waiting for ’em.”
Talking about his Secession Refer-
endum Bill Premier Mitchell mentioned with
the usual attitude of horror that when
Federal conventions were in progress this
country was presented with an estimate
that the cost of Federation would be
£750,000 a year—about 2s. 6d. per head.
It was Alfred Deakin who made the
estimate, and he was a far-seeing man. He
was so nearly correct that in 1928-29 the
cost of Federation was £614,841, or Is. lid.
per head. The figures are published on
pages 41-42 of the “Official Year-Book of
the Commonwealth,” and they include every-
thing from the salary of the Governor-
General down to the Parliament house-
keeper’s wages.
The other evening a gang stopped a book-
maker at King’s Cross, Sydney, and demanded
money, offering no explanation except that
they wanted it. About the same time a
political gang waylaid the insurance
managers of N.S.W. in Sydney, and
demanded money to the extent of about
£4,000,000. The bailed-up gentlemen weak-
ened to the extent of offering Government
securities, but the political gang demanded
cash. Then there was a strenuous resistance,
and the assailants retreated in disorder. But
there is talk about Governor Game appoint-
ing a reinforcement of 25 men or possibly
women in the hope that they will be enough
to make the hold-up a success.
R. G. Casey, who as liaison officer in
London did good work for Australia, is an
Opposition candidate for Corio. So is J. 11.
Lister, and if their supporters exchange pre-
ferences (there is not the slightest reason why
they shouldn’t) one of the two will send the
garrulous Lewis back to the Yarra bank.
That bellicose pacifist said in his first ses-
sion that he had not gone to the war, “and
if another war breaks out I shall still
refuse to fight”; also that he was in favor‘of
“the complete disarming of this country”
and that “no issue is worth the sacrifice of
human life.” So long as Australia is White
Australia there should be no place in the
national Parliament for that sort of repre-
sentative.
The Hty of Greater Brisbane found itself
the other day owing £34,000 in interest to
Yankee capitalists. It cost £29,000 to carry
the money to New York, which made the
bill something like 12 p.c., and the municipal
fathers were astonished. But plenty of things
cost as much for carriage, even for a short
distance, as the original price of the article.
Ballast and water packed in tanks are in-
stances, especially when they are dragged
to the place of delivery by a horse. When a
Commonwealth or State or city goes in debt
abroad by buying more goods abroad than it
can honestly pay for and having a luxurious
time, it must pay the interest, and ultimately
the principal, abroad at the place where the
debt was contracted. If it can borrow suffi-
cient more money at the same place when
interest or principal is due then it has the
requisite funds on the spot,_ and everything
in the garden is fair. If it can’t do this
then the money has to be humped to the
spot (unless the borrower goes bankrupt),
and humpage must be paid for.
An American observer who has been giv-
ing Ireland a look-over counts it as the best-
off part of the Empire, and on the showing
it seems to have a strong claim to be regarded
as one of the most prosperous countries in
the world. The total of unemployed in the
Irish Free State is computed as no more
than 20,000 (Scullin reckons there are
300,000 in Australia; others put it at half
a million). And at balancing budgets and
showing an excess of exports over imports
Ireland has had an enviable record from
the day when self-government began.
Economy has always been a feature of ad-
ministration. Legislators manage with £360
a year; indeed in Northern Ireland they
struggle along with £2OO.
Moore showed during the Queensland rail-
way strike that he could act resolutely in a
crisis, but in the matter of setting up an
elective second Chamber as a barrier against
Governments like Theodore’s and Lang’s he
has dallied dangerously. He proposes a
Council of 30 members, to be elected by adult
franchise from five six-member provinces cor-
responding to the Federal electoral divisions
of Brisbane and Lilley, Moreton and Oxley,
Darling Downs and Maranoa, Capricornia
and Wide Bay, Kennedy and Herbert. The
Councillors are to choose a President from
among their number, and are to be elected
for six years at the same time as the Assem-
blymen are chosen, the three lowest on each
provincial poll retiring at the end of three
years. A section of the party, blind to- what
has happened in N. S. Wales, still maunders
about the need for a referendum; and Moore
may live to be cursed as a ’bus-misser, as
Bavin is cursed in the M'a State.
Premier Lang now wears the anxious
look of a man who won’t last out for the
opening of the Sydney Harbor Bridge after
all. His situation is sad, stupid and des-
perate. At the end of October, 1930, the
seven Treasurers had deficits amounting to
£18,113,000, of which Lang’s predecessor
owed £5,306,000. His shortage was the
largest save that of the Commonwealth. At
the end of October, 1931, the seven Trea-
surers had deficits amounting to £14,704,000,
and Lang owed £7,782,000, or more than all
the others put together. He was the only one
who had made a wilful smash of the general
promise to economise, and his faithful but
benighted followers are urging him to smash
harder.
The passion of Labor Governments for
releasing prisoners before their term has
expired has received a bad advertisement
from the case of an American seaman, who
got seven years for robbery under arms in
Victoria. He was one of 11 prisoners whom
Attorney-General Slater let go. In explana-
tion Slater stated that relatives in the
U.S.A. had made an appeal, so, after half
of his sentence had been served, the man ■
was put on board a ship, and told not to
come back again.
“Under the strictest scientific supervision, a Hindu
mystic has given an amazing demonstration of poison-
swallowing. His menu included doses of cyanide,
with pieces of glass and nails, and he was apparently
not affected in any way. The demonstration is
a challenge to science."
“Challenge? We’ll give ’em all the chal-
lenge they want. That Hindus not a
patch on you.”
Lang is again offering tlie Mint site in
Macquarie-street plus half a million to tlie
Anglican Church people in exchange for the
ground whereon St. Andrew’s Cathedral
stands. He is wasting his time, and the
church’s. In 1926 he could have handed
over the half-million in N.S.W. Government
securities. Now lie would have to go to the
Loan Council, which would be very apt to
reply, for one thing, that boom times having
gone the land is not worth the extra
£500,000 or anything like it.
[For any pars, which require a signature under
the Electoral law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and .las.
Edmond, all of 252 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
WAIT HERE FOR TRAMS.
“Well, boy, this is my tram Bong swor.”
“Whatyer mean by that, Fluffy?”
“That’s good night in French.”
“Oh, is it? Well, bang slash.”
“What does that mean, big boy?”
“That’s good-bye in Darlinghurst.”
“Naklioda”: Alor Star, the Malay city
where the Australian airmail ’plane came
to a sticky end, is the capital of the Sul-
tanate of Kedah, where early European
voyagers sought King Solomon’s mines, the
original African location having failed to
pan out according to specification. In the
picturesque days, before rubber swept it
into the stream of modem progress, I visited
the place in a launch—there is an up-to-
date railway now. We travelled from
Penang by a gloomy-looking river flowing
between banks of mud and mangrove swamp.
The skipper had a stand of rifles on his
bridge, and as he turned each corner pas-
sengers were allowed the privilege of potting
at the crocodiles, which lay basking on the
banks in scores. It was poor sport, because
whenever you hit a saurian he always suc-
ceeded in reaching the water in a mighty
swirl of mud. Moreover, the Malays frowned
on the. shooting and refused to assist in
recovering the slain. They believe that the
snirits of their relations enter the bodies of
the brutes.
“Adelaide” : An unfortunate stowaway has
assured a Port Adelaide Court that in futxxre
he will inquire at the company’s office
instead of accepting the gossip of the
wharves. On the strength of the latter, he
neatly packed himself away on the Euri-
pides, at Fremantle, for London: but
presently found himself nearly 2000 miles in
the wrong direction and faced with the
alternative of “£3 15s. or 10 days.”
“Ficksburg”: What
was probably the first
South African flag to
be hoisted in Australia
flew over the northern
end of the members’
stand at Sydney Cricket
Ground during the first
match with N.S.W., and
many, remembei’ing that
the question of its de-
sign set Boer and Briton
by the ears again a
couple of years ago,
gazed at it curiously. Of
blue, orange and white
horizontal stripes, it
differs from all other
known national emblems
by having two smaller
flags, the Union Jack
and the old Transvaal
vierkleur, superimposed
on the centre stripe,
side by side. The Jack,
of course, can stand for
Cape Colony and Natal
and the vierkleur for
the one-time satrapy of
Oom Paul. But why is
the orange and white
banner of the old Free
State not displayed ?
The only recognition of
the senior republic is
the streak of orange in
the main bunting.
“Adelaide”: The City of Churches was
the inappropriate scene of an odd “howler”
lately. The “Advertiser,” in a little general-
knowledge paper it sets each morning, asked :
“Who were the parents of Ishmael?” Well,
anybody nowadays might not know that;
but you wouldn’t expect the teacher to get
ploughed on his own question. Yet the
answer published was “Jacob and Hagar”;
and only one Biblical student wrote in to
say that Jacob was being blamed for the
extra-matrimonial venture of his grandfather
Abraham.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: I attended one of these World
Disarmament demonstrations, and was struck
with the belligerence of the pacifists. It
seems as if peace movements have an
irresistible attraction for people whose
natural love of imposing their will on other
people has been
checked in the
domestic sphere by
a dominating hus-
band or a shrewish
wife. A League of
Nations Union
pageant was staged
in Melbourne some
little time ago and
on the surface all
looked grand. There
were beautiful tab-
leaux illustrating
the neighborly love
of one nation for
the next, though
one of the turns,
depicting the spirit
of War being sub-
jugated by the
spirits of Peace,
might easily have
been interpreted by
a foi’eigner as a
.symbolical picture
,of Jack Dempsey
getting one in the
wind from Gene
Tunney. But it
was at rehearsals
that the pacific de-
sires of nationals
engaged got their
fullest scope. A
French delegate
raised a storm
when she objected
to the procession
being accompanied
by a band playing
German music. She
was only mollified
when it was
pointed out that
the composer of the
march was Grieg,
a Norwegian. Then
there was bitter
complaint from
other nations at
the proposal that
Britannia should
lead, and the bit-
terness was inten-
sified when an
Australian spokes-
man explained that
Britannia had been selected because, as
everybody knew, Britain had always stood
for peace, her shield, sword, gun-carriage and
Minerva helmet .being the appropriate sym-
bols of this. Probably the only delegation
that realised the international ideal was
that of the Poles. The national hero, Kos-
ciusko, was represented by an Irishman.
Possibly, however, this was due to a shortage
of Poles.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Melbourne has been all
agog with the story of an obscene film,
alleged to have been secretly screened at
midnight in a large suburban theatre. The
lady who revealed the crime did not give
the name of the screener or the location of
the theatre, nor did she describe the nature
of the film. Inquiry has failed to clear
the matter up and the informant now says
that all she worked on was an anonymous
lettex*. There is considerable indignation
among members of watch committees, for
obviously guardians of our morals can-
not witness such screenings, whereas, when
a legitimate play, is described as obscene,
they can attend in droves. Some of them
never go into a theatre except on such occa-
sions. There is nothing new, of course, in
the lady’s discovery. A short film can be
slipped into the pocket, and sundry per-
verted people have brought such films into
the counti’y and invited their friends to the
performance, when a private projection appa-
ratus has been available. The smutty mov-
ing-picture is merely the logical descendant
of the smutty Port Said postcard. They are
MUMMY’S COLOR COMES AND GOES.
“They thought I had measles last night. I was covered with red spots.”
“What happened?"
“Oh, mummy had just been kissing me.”
“shot” in the same places as the postcards
were —-the red-light districts of Cairo,
Smyrna and Marseilles. The penalty for
being found in possession of one is so severe
that few people are likely to take the risk
of introducing them, and a person must
be very bored with life if he ever wants
to see one twice.
* * * *
“Retired Murderer”: The finding of those
charred human remains near Bungendore
(B. 2/12/’3l) once more stresses the fact
that it is almost impossible to destroy all
traces of a human body by fire —that is, for
any persons except professionals with the
latest resources of science at their disposal.
The outstanding example in Australia is the
case of Doyle and Dalke, a constable and
station manager murdered by cattle-
duffers in the Roma (Q.) country some
30 years ago. It was proved after-
wards that the bodies were taken to a flat
rock in the middle of a waterhole, cut up,
and then painstakingly burned. The ashes
were later collected and packed in saddle-
bags, what remained being carefully swept
into the water. It was the escape from
the murderers of the packhorse carrying the
ashes which finally sheeted their guilt home.
Tiny fragments of matter, such as portion
of a gold stopped tooth and a bit of a metal
sleeve clip, were identifiable. Even on the
swept and cleared rock, traces remained of
what the fire had not quite destroyed, and
the waterhole yielded up its store of evidence.
# * * *
“Poins”: A “lawyer’s bodkin” figured as
the lethal weapon in a recent Sydney murder
case, pro bably
much the same im-
plement as H'amlet
had in mind as
offering the handi-
est means whereby
a man might “his
own quietus make.”
Fashions change,
however, along
with improved ap-
pliances for self-
destruction, and
the suicide who
stabs himself is a
very rare bird
nowadays. The
ordinary domestic
bodkin, I am in-
formed, would be
of no use for the
purpose, being “a
kind of blunt
needle with a large
eye,” and neither
Webster nor any
other lexicographer
gives any specific
information as to
the l.b. Doubtless
it belongs to the
brand summarised
as “a sharp-pointed
implement of steel,
bone or ivory for
making holes,” an
essential tool of
the lawyer’s trade
when deeds were
drawn up on tough
parchment, and
still found useful
for eyeletting pur-
poses. In this case
the emergency
stiletto made a hole in a man’s heart and
sent another to gaol for 13 years.
* * * *
“ Jungor”: Mention of ultra-rowdy elec-
tion meetings at Christchurch (B. 2/12/’3l)
recalls to me the wildest and woolliest
one I ever witnessed. It occurred at
Kalgoorlie in 1901, when the bitterest
feeling had been stirred up against C. J.
Moran, the member for the district, over
the alluvial troubles in which he had taken
the unpopular side. The hall was packed to
the doors with an audience nine-tenths
grimly hostile and determined not to hear a
word that the speaker, who was standing for
re-election, might have to say in. his own
defence. And, except for an occasional sen-
tence, it didn’t. Nothing could carry above
tlie pandemonium of yells and hoots and
derisive taunts, yet the candidate, game as a
pebble, stuck to'his guns for two and a halt
solid hours. Finally he sought to address
himself solely to the press representatives,
who were within a few feet of him and
might have been able to record something.
This only angered his detractors the. more,
and the furniture began to crack. Chaii’S and
forms were rapidly being dismembered for
handy weapons, and the platform would un-
doubtedly have been rushed if some judicious
person hadn’t turned down the lights and
enabled the speaker and his supporters to
beat a retreat by the back door. After that
Moran held his meetings in the daytime at
street corners, and put up a plucky fight,
but the odds were too heavy for him, and
the seat went to “Plane Bill” Johnson, one
of Westralia’s first batch of Labor members.
* * * *'
“Gad”: The main bagmen’s camp in
Gympie (Q.) is a pigsty. A real everyday
pigsty, and as I saw it the other morning
(at 5.30; having travelled from Maryborough
overnight in a dogbox) it was the saddest
thing I ever want to see. It had rained
very heavily the previous night, so that even
the pigs, had they not been provided with more
comfortable quarters elsewhere, would have
found that sty a little disheartening. There
were 15 men in the camp, and the spectacle
they presented, asleep in that sty, was some-
thing too horrible to ponder over.
* * * *
“Malth”: At least one great church has
directly qualified and revised the old
ecclesiastical opposition to birth control;
following that, last week an English Judge
boldly placed on record his opinion that
“the law regarding illegal operations should
PROFESSIONALLY SPEAKING.
“You know, Doctor, you have the reputation among your patients
of being somewhat of a lady-killer!”
“I can assure you, Madam, 1 do not distinguish between the
sexes!”
-be substantially amended because it is not
in accord with modern conditions.” A woman
had pleaded guilty to a self-inflicted opera-
tion for abortion. She had borne seven
children in 14 years, had no money, and had
a husband who wouldn’t work, and the Judge,
though he had no option but to convict her,
flatly refused to send her to prison, con-
tenting himself with binding her over.
Britain, he remarked, was already over-
populated, and a knowledge of birth control
should be widely extended, particularly
among the poor. If Parliament acts on the
judicial recommendation, Marie Stopes may
yet have a statue erected to her.
I WONDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 wonder if it’s shrunk, each quid
Of mine that in the bank is,
With every point that sterling’s slid
Among the Frogs and Yankees.
I wonder if the powers of earth
Will ever be enabled
To make all bunce and boodle worth
Exactly what it’s labelled.
I wonder which they’d easier hide,
These Labor heads, or smother—
Their loathing for the other side
Or that for one another.
I wonder if to Theodore,
Latham or Lang’s more measly,
And which does Scullin most abhor,
Doc. Page or Mi - . Beasley?
I wonder is Sir Philip game
To be a bit robuster
And stiffen up his knightly frame
’Gainst poppycock and bluster.
I wonder why they send us Govs.
In bravery and buckles
With such extremely velvet gloves
And oh! such nerveless knuckles.
I wonder if these hares of tin,
Now safely past obstruction,
Will pull us from the slough we’re in
And stimulate production.
I wonder if Depression’s back
We’ll see, or Bungs can shift her
By charging sixpence for a snack
And tenpence for a sniftei 1 .
I wonder which should constitute
The more artistic swathers
Of female forms, pyjamas cute,
Or boldly-backless bathers.
I wonder if the Field, divorce,
With rows of wigs in clover,
Will run its Marathonian course
Before the summer’s over.
I wonder, of the rival crews,
Who’re slinging round addresses,
llow many know they’re bound to lose
The numbers of their messes,
Incontinently disappear,
Be swept entirely under.
Is there another landslide near
Like Britain had? I wonder!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“C. Bumpkin” : A fishing trip from Derby,
North Westralia, ended in a remarkable
way. The crew, which comprised two sea-
men and a landsman, set out in a 20-foot
open boat well stocked with food and water.
Three days out they struck a storm, which
drove them north for four days. By luck
they encountered Savoe, an island in the
Malay archipelago. To return to Derby
meant beating against the wind probably for
weeks, so they made for Sourabaya and sailed
from one archipelagic stepping-stone to
another until they reached Waingaboe. Here
they were told that the tides in the Bali
and Lombok straits were too strong for a
craft like theirs, and a Dutch captain gave
them a lift in a Iv.P.M. boat. It is curious
to reflect that exactly the same route was
followed 300 years before. The Dutch ships
set out from Capetown and sailed with a
free sheet till they made a landfall on the
Westralian coast, often in the vicinity of
ROBBERY—THAT’S WHAT IT IS.
“’Strewth! D’yer mean ter tell me that this is all they gives yer nowadays fer a
week’s ’ard work?”
Derby. Then they hauled their wind and
made for the Equator. The north-easterly
trades are a fixture in those parts for most
of the year.
* * # *
“lan C.”: When the police made a raid on
a N. Melb. pub. after business hours they
could find no trace of a string of men they
had seen entering. They searched every
cranny of the establishment until they were
brought up by a locked bathroom. The ser-
geant knocked and a woman inside answered
that she was in the bath, and splashed the
water for evidence of good faith. Not entirely
satisfied, the men in blue waited, with ears
cocked. Presently they heard a male voice,
and in the name of the King a demand was
made that the door be opened. It was, and
out trooped the licensee’s daughter and ten
men.
* * * *
“Lab. Anni”: I went down to Sydney
Cove to see the Strathnaver, and the
visit set me thinking of the first overseas
ship I ever saw. That was another P. and
O. vessel, the Shannon, then one of the
crack ships of the line. She was lying on
the Fort Macquarie side of the Quay, and
displaced about 4000 tons as against the
Strathnaver’s 22,000. The Shannon’s saloon,
lined with marble which made her roll like
an empty bottle, was the last thing in
luxury then—the mid-’eighties. Most of the
Strathnaver’s bathrooms eclipsed it. The
Shannon’s cabins were lit by oil lamps, and
water was laid on in tin-cans. The refri-
gerator was an ice-chest, and fresh meat
was carried on the hoof on the main deck.
For’ard, under the break of the fo’c’s’le, the
butcher carried on his grisly calling, next
door to a loosebox which harbored a blase
cow, and there were live sheep and fowls
dotted about in various places. It used to
be said that the P. and O. was as immutable
as the East it served, but modernity has
evidently been too much for it.
* * * *
“Warepa”: The liquor trade in M.L. is
becoming alarmed at the growth of the
home-brew industry. Almost every grocery
store has a window display of the neces-
sary ingredients, and there is a brisk exchange
of bottles, casks and crown-top gadgets.
Some of the wash-house copper concoctions
are horrible, but I have sampled others of
crystal clarity and soothing after-effects. In
many suburban streets on Sundays—the
favorite brewing day—a pungent hops-and-
malt vapor ascends to high heaven like an
incense what time the churchgoers pass by
with tilted noses. Prohibitionists are sug-
gesting legislation to combat home-brewing.
* =* * *
“Hermes”: It’s hard to baffle the deter-
mined motor thief nowadays, and he isn’t
only adept at removing everything saleable
or removable from stolen property and leav-
ing the gutted shell in some inconspicuous
place. One suffering citizen is still telling
how, doubtful of the efficacy of ordinary
locking, he attached one wheel of his con-
veyance to a healthy-looking lamp-post by
means of a stout chain and a heavy padlock.
When he returned a few hours later the
wheel was precisely where he left it; the
only trouble was that the rest of the car
had disappeared. The marauder had been
at some pains to detach the fettered wheel
from where it belonged and replace it with
the spare one, after which he had driven
away with his spoil.
:'f # # *
“Centurion”: Further perusal of the
“reminiscences” of Nogales, the v enezuelan
who fought with the Turks (B. IS/11/’ox;,
confirms me in the opinion that lie is a first-
class romancer, though Tom White, M.11’.R.,
mentions him kindly in “Guests of the Un-
speakable.” His championship of the Turk-
ish cavalry and his stories of their
gallant deeds will make every Light Horse-
man wonder if the worthless and ill-
equipped and mounted rabbits he occasionally
encountered at long range were the same lot
as Nogales’s heroes. Nog’s supreme effort
is the story of a battle between a Turkish
squadron and one from the A.L.H., as the
result of a challenge by Jacko. He says that
they clashed in a cloud of dust, and that after
the fight was called off “not three dozen
Australians and Turks remained in their
saddles.” The Turks, of course, were
equipped with sword and lance, but I am
wondering what the L.H. fought with in
that Homeric encounter unless it was their
fists. None of the Australian units carried
the sword until some time after this scrap
is supposed to have occurred.
* * * %
“Nakli.” : The visit of the Fleet to Mel-
bourne ended in a fishing expedition. A
torpedo discharged in practice from one of
the ships completed its course, but when the
mechanism inside should have caused it to
turn its nose upwards and . remain gently
breathing on the surface until picked up, it
perversely dived to the ocean floor. A sea-
plane usually dogs the torpedoes in order
to point their position out, and a buoy was
duly dropped over the spot where the ex-
plosive had disappeared. Then the Aus-
tralia set to work to drag for it, much
in the way a cable-repairing steamer hunts
for a cable, by grappling to and fro over an
indicated line, but the effort was unsuccess-
ful. There is treasure trove for the fisher-
man who succeeds in recovering the thing,
which is valued at £2200.
* * =!= =-
“Quaere”: “Mells” is hardly correct in
his paragraph about fines and alternative
terms of imprisonment (B. 25/11/’3l). In
N. 8. Wales, at all events, these no longer
depend upon the “taste and fancy of the
magistrate.” Under the Justices Act 1902
their Washups had a very wide discretion
so far as the alternatives were concerned;
as the equivalent of a 10s. fine they might
impose imprisonment up to seven days; fines
of over £lOO, up to 12 months. The Lang
Government, by an amending Act passed this
year, changed all this. It is now provided
that, in the case of fines up to 10s. “default”
shall not exceed one day, and if the fine ex-
ceeds 10s. the period shall bo “one day for
COMPLETELY OVERSHADOWED.
“It’s no good —I can’t get the vest to meet.”
“But, my vaird, nobody vill look at der vest ven dey see how peautiful der trousers fit.”
each 10s of such amount or part thereof.”
This accounts for the ratio being preserved
when the cocain trafficker’s sentence of £250
or 500 days was reduced to £lO or 20 days
on appeal.
**- * *
“Carrick, A. B.”: I have been collecting
opinions or Aussie broadcasting programmes
from men whose judgment is interesting
—members of the crews of tramp steamers
who own private receiving sets, and who
have picked up nearly every station in the
world at one time or another. They do not
altogether flatter our programmes, but there
is one item about which they are enthusias-
tic. Said the chief of one of the Court
vessels: “Your community singing from
2FC on Monday nights beats anything
else of the sort which we ever pick
up. Songs which we all know and like,
well sung, a splendid accompanist, and a
conductor' humorous enough to make an owl
laugh. We’re always sorry when we get out
of range of it.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: I am deeply concerned to
learn from a Hollywood cable that Jiddu
Krishnamurti has renounced all claim to
being an avatar and is going into business.
“I am through with this bluff,” he is re-
ported to have said. The degeneration in
language is saddening.
Krishnamurti is the only
Messiah whom I have per-
sonally known, and I have
watched his career with in-
terest since Annie Besant
first obtained a writ against
his father, an Indian rail-
way clerk, for the person of
the future Light of the
World. The miracles with
which the young man has
since been credited have been
various and picturesque. His
name, repeated continuously
by a group of believers at
Sassafras (Vic.), is said to
have saved the pleasant
country mountain resort
where W. M. Hughes has a
country home from a disas-
trous bush-fire; and there
have been phenomena even
more convincing than that.
The real truth about Jiddu
is that he was too much for
Mrs. Besant. The valiant
old Theosophist hoped to
mould him to her heart’s
desire, but she struck a
young man of genuine sin-
cerity and strong person-
ality, who constantly be-
haved in a way no Mes-
siah should behave. For
instance, he told an inter-
viewer in Paris that he liked
tennis and having tea with
the girls. In Scotland
he informed another newspaper man that he
was not so much concerned at the moment
at beginning a new era of universal brother-
hood as in getting round the local golf course
in a respectable number of strokes. Even
the most ardent forerunner can’t make much
of a Messiah out of material like that.
* * * *
“Windich”: The row raised in England
over a retired General’s casual admission
that in the Boer War he had stacked up a
youthful enemy against a wall and threat-
ened to shoot him unless he divulged certain
information —the plucky youngster refused
to give it and the threat, of course, wasn’t
executed or ever intended to be —somehow
recalls the exception taken to methods adopted
by explorers towards treacherous or obstinate
natives, when such happen to leak out. There
was quite a rumpus among Westralian
humanitarians when the form of ungentle
suasion employed to make a captured black-
fellow show the way to a waterhole in un-
traversed country was first made public,
through the frankness of Frank Hann or Carr
Boyd—l forget which. The modus operandi
was simply to tie the captive to a tree if he
proved obdurate, and give him nothing but
very salt meat until he came to a more amen-
able frame of mind, which invariably hap-
pened in the end. Torture, of course, but a
form which, resorted to when all milder
methods failed, has probably saved a good
many lives. Yet it would probably be hard
to convince Exeter H’all of the abundant
justification that might exist for it.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp’’: The limit in grading
travellers (B, 2/12/’3l) was surely reached
by the Messageries Maritimes vessels of the
pre-war days; there were no fewer than
six classes. First-class passengers had a
right to the whole ship, second to all the
ship but the special reserve of the first-
classers, and so on; on the smaller boats
there was more smell than space for the
sixth class. Yet it was in that class that
the French soldiers sent on duty to New
HUSBANDS ARE SO UNREASONABLE.
HUSBAND: “No, of course you can’t go! What would people
think if they saw you coming home from a dance
with a strange man in a taxi?”
WIFE: “I’m as careful of my reputation as you are—
we’d have the blinds down.”
Caledonia were forced to travel. Incident-
ally, the accommodation, except in the two
lowest classes, was very good.
This year “The Bulletin” will add its
collection of Christmas stories and verse
to the ordinary issue of Dec. 16, and the
big double number will be issued for the
usual 6d. The stories include a striking
contribution by Katharine S. Prichard and
another by Vance Palmer. In a couple of
extra pages “The Bulletin” will try to
give its friends some idea of what its new
home in Sydney is like.
THE PRICE OF BRIDES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A message from Toledo (Ohio) states that
‘King Joe,’ ruler of more than 200,000 gypsies in
the United States, has announced that, owing to the
depression among the tribes, the price of brides
must be reduced.”
The cost of living, you’ll admit,
They’re ever downward shoving.
The same decline, ’tis surely fit,
Should mark the cost of loving.
Hence, where the monarch known as Joe
Of Romanys is keeper,
'Tis satisfactory to know
That gypsy brides are cheaper.
Yet not by lowering marriage fees
Has saving been effected;
From little exes, such as these
They’ve always been protected.
A broomstick’s all the parties use,
And each must be a leaper.
The good old Church no dues will lose
Now gypsy brides are cheaper.
I cannot quote the ruling price,
In dollars or in guineas,
That nomad Jacks who sought to splice
Were wont to pay for Jennies
Before this darned depression smote
The tribesmen in the peeper;
But anyhow you’ll please to note
That gypsy brides are cheaper.
To dodge the bailiff all the Old
World nations must manoeuvre
While half this hungry planet’s gold
Is hogged by Uncle Hoover.
Yet in the realm that’s ruled by Joe
The way for women’s steeper.
And p’r’aps they take —I do not know—
An lOU in Ohio
From Romanys who wooing go,
Now gypsy brides are cheaper.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


EXPLOSIVES
Alii, KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman); „ /n|IAM
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMESi WILLIAM
J MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND,
EDWARD RITCHIE .KNOX.
General Manager: «7. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office — IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3. Canberra
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South A us t a a , Darts of
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other pans
the world. , ,
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.— lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius . .
tThemistocles
*Nestor
. .
*Ulysses . .
f Euripides . .
10,000 tons,
12.500 „
14.500 „
18.500 „
14.500 „
15,000 „
Jan. 18, ’32
Feb. 9, ’32
Mch. 8, ’32
Mch. 15, ’32
Apr. 23, ’32
May 3, ’32
•First clast only. fFirst and third class.
t Cabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.l
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. J
Joint
Agents
PERSONAL
ITEMS
William Morris Hughes (67) and David
Watkins (66) are the only two candidates for
the House of Reps, who have been there since
it started business in 1901. Each had sat
for six years previously in the N.S.W.
Assembly, but there aren’t many other re-
semblances except that both started on the
same, party ticket. William has had three
different lots of constituents, at West Sydney,
Bendigo and North Sydney, whereas New-
castle has always remained constant to
David. And the former rose to the highest
positions attainable, culminating in eight
years of Prime Ministership, whereas the
latter has never emerged from the rank-and-
file.
Kingsford Smith has put up many records
bis latest, achieved last week, was the cross-
ing of the Timor Sea for the eighth time.
He speaks of it lightly as “The Ditch,” and
is beginning to know the 475-mile stretch as
well as any navigator of seagoing craft. It
is only five hours’ flying from Darwin to
Koepang, and on the four occasions when the
Southern Cross made the crossing in April
and May of this year it was “checked” in
and out of Koepang and Darwin by Shell
Company officials on schedule time, much
as an express train might have been. Last
week the famous airman left Darwin at 6.15
a.m. and reached Koepang at 11.30.
William Lathlain, who was Mayor of
Perth from 1917 to 1923 and was induced
to resume the rabbit-skin two or three years
ago, has secured another term of office. HiS
opponent, as usual* was the veteran Tom
Molloy, who has fought most mayoral elec-
tions for over 30 years, and all Parliamen-
tary ones in which he reckoned he had an
outside chance for nearly 40 years. Tom’s
assiduity has been ill rewarded; he has been
only once returned to the Assembly, and
but one full mayoral term and one partial
one have come his way; but he remains
undiscouraged. And his pertinacity evi-
dently begins to tell; this time he finished
only 1000 votes behind Lathlain in a poll of
20,000.
Nobody dug himself deeper into Australian
public life during the past couple of years
than J. G. Latham: and he did it partly
by stepping down from the leadership to
give Lyons a chance. Latham, who is a
very sound lawyer and a K.C., hasn’t all the
qualities of a popular captain; _ but he has
the personal regard of all parties and all
J. G. LATHAM, K.C.
sections of all parties, which know him for
a fair, courteous and very public-spirited
gentleman. His safe seat is Kooyong, in the
eastern suburbs of Melbourne. A good up-
standing figure, Latham was something of an
athlete in his youth, and one of the best
lacrosse players the State has reared. He
is 54.
J. J. Cahill, the little Labor whip in the
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, has not the anxious
air common to liis tribe: his party has a
majority of 20 in a House of 90, and, any-
how, Laborites don’t play truant very much.
Cahill, who is in his late thirties, springs
from Irish-Australian stock, got his schooling
at an R.C. parish school at Redfern (Syd-
ney), was apprenticed at the Eveleigh rail-
way shops, in 1917 tried to win Dulwich Hill
for Labor but was beaten by Tom Hoskins,
and the same year lost his job at the shops
following the big railway and tramway strike.
In 1925 he displaced “Weary Willy” Bagnall
as one of the five from St. George, next held
the single seat of the same name, and shifted
over to win Arneliffe at the last State
J. J. CAHILL, the Lang -party's whip.
election. In his workshop days he was a
power in the Amalgamated Engineers’ Union
and. a tireless worker in the friendly society
movement. Within the party he is regarded
as a dependable, obliging fellow, and he is
always ready to jump on a platform at a
moment’s notice, whether in his own suburb
or at the back of Bourke.
John W. Kirwan, whose vote .as President
of the Westralian Leg. Council saved the
Secession Referendum Bill on its second read-
ing, was one of the five foundation members
sent to the first House of Reps. 30 years ago;
the only other survivor of the bunch is J. M.
Fowler, who lost his seat for Perth some
years ago. Before he began his campaign
Kirwan claimed that he had read and re-
read the Federal Constitution until he
nearly knew it by heart, and he was returned
for the Ivalgoorlie division by a comfortable
majority. But he held the seat for only one
term, a Laborite in Charley Frazer, long
since dead, dispossessing him in 1903. Kir-
wan stayed out of politics for five years;
then he won the Council seat which he has
held ever since.
Passed out at Launceston, William Race
Allison, a settler at Flinders Island for 3o
years, who did much to promote the wel-
fare of the half-castes, descendants of the
now-extinct Tasmanian aborigines, the last
of whom were deported to Chapel Island.
He was a grandson of Lieut. William Gunn,
superintendent of convicts and police magis-
trate at Launceston, and a terror to evil-
doers, including bushrangers. William
Allison, who was 77 when the call came, was
a daring yachtsman and had several close
calls when running his 16ft. boat across the
turbulent Stretch of water to the mainland.
Among candidates for the next Federal
Parliament are to be found two sometime
State Labor Premiers who have been in
more or less enforced recess for years.
James Dooley, who - ran the Ma State and
essayed to lead the party during a stormy
period in 1921-22, and was afterwards
Speaker, figures as a “Straight Laborite
(whatever that may be) among the 13
N.S.W. starters for the Senate. Crawford
Vaughan, whose hour of greatness was still
more remote —lie led a South Aus. Gov-
ernment from 1915 to 1917 —is contesting
Adelaide on the Independent ticket. • Craw-
ford has been a lot of things since he crashed
politically, but mostly a Prohibition lec-
turer ; James has been a publican.
William Clancy Little is a bright young-
ster of 52 who has thought it worth while
to come all the way from North Queens-
land to beard Theodore in his Dailey den, is
an enthusiastic Protectionist, and can take
his own part on the platform and with a
pen. In private life Little is a stock and
station agent at Cloncurry. He was born on
the Hodgkinson goldfield, behind Cairns. His
dad for many years one of the mining
magnates of Charters Towers, was with the
first party to follow Mosman and Clark on
to the new Eldorado, so the prospecting
strain evidently runs in the family.
Harry Gregory, M.H.R. for Swan, must
be one of the oldest Parliamentary cam-
paigners still in action, though at 71 he is
six years the junior of Dr. Maloney. Gregory
has'had 34 years of politics, and he had to
fight desperately for his seat at several sue-
cessive elections when he represented Men-
zies in the State Assembly. Since he secured
a Federal division and joined the newly-
formed Country party, he has found the
going much easier. A huge cocky consti-
tuency is mostly as safe for the sitting mem-
ber as a factory stronghold for some brand
of Laborite.
Bill McConnell, one of Harold Clapp’s
bright young men, is facing his third Christ-
mas rush of holiday-makers as manager of
the Government Tourist Bureau. Pie suc-
ceeded Roy Gollan (now assistant manager
of the “Argus”) in 1929, after 22 years of
railway experience in all parts of the State.
He was first chief of Clapp’s new train-
control system, and he also had a term
with the betterment and publicity board,
organising Reso. tours.
Among the Australian militaires now
taking part in a game of general post as
the result of Defence Department changes
are Brigadier Jess and Colonel Martyn, both
of the General Staff. Jess hails from Bendigo;
going to the front with the A.I.F. as staff
captain to the 4th Infantry Brigade, he
rose to the command of the 10th Brigade m
1918 when only 34 years of age —the
youngest brig, in the A.I.F. After a spoil
in England he was successively Com-
mandant in Tasmania and W.A. until liis
recent appointment to Victoria to succeed
the late Brigadier Cass. Colonel Martyn, a
native of Armidale (N.S.W.), was a Per-
manent Force sapper before he saw Gallipoli
and France. Like Jess, he had a fine
war record, but his recent appointment as
Base .Commandant for Westralia is the first
of its kind to come his way.
South Aus. has found a Rhodes scholar who
should be back as an Australian ’Varsity
professor in a few years. E. W. Gray was
top of the school at 11 in Orroroo, and then
went on to St. Peter’s, St. Mark’s and the
University, gathering in almost as a matter
of course any bursary, scholarship or exhibi-
tion in sight. At 21 lie goes to Oxford with
first-class B.A. honors in classics already
behind him.
After outliving all his contemporaries, the
Rev. H*. W. PI. Adeney, a pioneer of Angli-
canism in Vic., passed out a few days ago
at Elwood, near Melbourne, at 97. He was
ordained by Bishop Perry in ’62, when lie
was 28, and his longest term of service was
at Ballarat. Afterwards he was chaplain
of charitable institutions south of the Yarra.
His wife, who died two years ago, was a
niece of Isaac Pitman.
By one of Fate’s little ironies Maoriland’s
overwhelmingly pro-farmer Coalition Gov-
ernment goes back to power minus its most
pronouncedly agrarian-minded Minister —
Davy Jones. Davy was one of the founders
of the Farmers’ Union. In the historic
test cases before a Conciliation Council, and
later the Arbitration Court, in which farm
laborers sought an award, Jones was the
F.U. advocate. He marshalled his evidence
so competently that the ; Court once and for
all decided it couldn’t and wouldn’t regulate
the industry. In later years when the
F.U.’s dream (and Jones’s) of a Meat
Export Board with full powers of commandeer
became a reality, Jones was chair-
man. For a while lie represented Ivaiapa,
DAVY JONES, the only M.L. Minister
defeated.
Tom Bavin’s birthplace, in Parliament, and
when Mid-Canterbury electorate was created
he switched to that, because his own farm
was in it. But Mid-Canterbury consists
mostly of territory formerly in Ashburton
electorate, and the seat has been won by
J. Connolly, an Ashburton farmer, who has
made a hobby of contesting it from time
immemorial.
Four members of the old Federal Parlia-
ment were returned unopposed—all opponents
of Labor: Prowse, of W.A.; Paterson, ot
Vic. • Francis and Corser, of Queensland.
Jos Francis, of Moreton, the district lying
around Brisbane west and south, has one ol
the cosiest possies in the Commonwealth.
JOSIAH FRANCIS, Queensland M.H.R.,
unopposed.
Not a great statesman, Josiah is nevertheless
a clear-headed politician, amiable ana
straight, who knows his area like a book.
Dad was a stock-dealer and butcher there.
Jos. grew up among them all, and then
increased his grip by marrying into, the
Cribb family, whose stronghold is Ipswich.
James McGee, who has taken liis Ph.D
degree at Cambridge, is a native of Quean-
bcyan, N.S.W. He received his first school-
ing from his dad, “Old Frank, at the little
Tuggranong school in the I ederal Capital
Territory (Tuggranong homestead was
where the “Official History of Australia in
the War” was written). The younger
McGee was already an M.Sc. of Sydney Lni.
when he went to Cambridge; he will stay
overseas for another year to continue research
work.
J O. Bourne, who went over the range
in Brisbane last week, was born in Melbourne
in 1844 and came young to Queensland,
where his grandfather was secretary to the
Board of Education. He started his life s
work in the Surveyor-General s Depart-
ment, eventually becoming Master of Titles,
a job which he relinquished in 1904, when
he was one of the few remaining civil ser-
vants to benefit under the long-abolished
Pensions Act of 1863. In his younger days
Bourne was a keen rifleshot and a volunteei
gunner, rising to the rank of captain com-
manding No. 1 battery of . the old colonial
forces.,
Henry Charles Swan, who recently passed
out at Henderson (MX.), left £35,000 to his
widow. A lawyer from Newcastle (Eng.),
he sought seclusion on the waters ol
a stream that flows ‘from the Henderson
Creek. He moored a yacht there m sylvan
beauty, and had his being aboard for a
quarter of a century; literary, astronomical
and theological' studies absorbing his time His
dislike for his species (if it was that) did not
extend to children, for they were the only
humans known to board the yacht. He was
a great favorite with them, and they sat
round his feet while he discoursed on the
glories of the firmament.
Alexander Goodall, who took his final
reckoning in Queensland the other .day at
75, was one of the northern State’s best-
known master mariners. Scottish born, lie
came to Queensland as a child, and served
his sea apprenticeship under his dad. a
shipmaster of the old school. In his time
he commanded all manner of seagoing and
longshore craft, including coastal liners,
pearling boats under James Clark, of Ihd rs "
day Island, and for 17 years various dredges
of the Harbors and Rivers Department. A
fine swimmer, he had a notable life-saving
record, holding several Royal Humane cer-
tificates and the Sir William Clarke medal.
[For any pars, which require a signature under
the Electoral law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and Jas.
Edmond, all of 252 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
m
rwi
o
%
W
m
§
Belting for Long Service
r T'HE many long-service records established
* by Pioneer Leather Belting justify its
specification for the hardest and most diffi-
cult drives. There is no guesswork when
you buy Pioneer Belting, because there _is
a special grade to suit each type of drive
and every working condition. _ For many
years of dependable service specify
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
Made and guaranteed since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI &. SON
limited
117 York Street, Sydney, and 20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: HOEY FRY, LTD., 170 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: J. McKELL & SONS, 129 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: MR. HORACE SUMMERS, 9-11 HOWARD STREET, PERTH.
TASMANIA: CHAS. DAVIS, LTD., 60 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART.
NEW ZEALAND: G. W. ARNOLD, LTD., A.M.P. CHAMBERS, WELLINGTON.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales.
To Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1919.. 579,482 10 p.c. = 395,158 184,324 3,340,370
1920. . 642,852 10 „ „ 463,839 179,013 3,519,383
1921.. 753,341 „ 621,801 131,540 3,650,923
1922.. 698,124 10 „ „ 521,609 176,515 3,827,438
1923.. 825,082 10 „ „ 597,981 227,101 4,054,539
1924.. 846,833 10 „ „ 600,000 246,833 4,301,372
1925.. 979,383 12J „ „ 750,000 229,383 4,530,755
1926. 1,099,559 124 », 750,000 349,559 4,880,314
Bank of Western Australia absorbed.
Net reserves taken over, £600,851.. 5,481,165
1927. 1,226,247 124 p.c.= 886,797 339,150 5,820,615
1928.1,184,943 12| „ ~936,905 248,038 6,068,653
1929.. 994,825 10 „ ~750,000 244,825 6,313,478
1930. . 734,699 9J „ „ 731,250 3,449 6,316,927
1931.. 565,236 8 „ „ 619,200 6,262,963
Outstanding features of the latest accounts,
which cover the period before the change of
outlook following the drop in sterling, are
a growth of £3,149,870 in deposits, a reduc-
tion of £5,291,271 in advances and of
£1,803,722 in the bills figures, etc. The
money that thus became available was in-
vested mainly in Treasury bills, which
sprang £6,150,000, reaching £8,700,000 at
Sept. 30. Broadly, the factors responsible
for the movements were liquidation of stocks
and reduction of overdrafts by merchants,
and the financing of the various Govern-
ments on an inflationary basis. Contingent
liabilities (£2,082,00), which largely reflect
external trade conditions, were £326,000
lighter.
The steep fall in incomes and values made
lighter exchange and other earnings inevit-
able, and the position was aggravated by a
growing crop of bankruptcies, frozen market
outlets, inelastic overhead, due largely to
taxation, a quick growth in interest-bearing
deposits and reduction in both the market
value of Government securities and the in-
terest thereon. Thus, after paying an extra
£91,200 in taxes (£457,822), writing a “sub-
stantial” sum off premises, reducing the book
value of investments to less than their
market price at Sept. 30, and providing for bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies,the
board put the year’s net profit at 7.5 p.c. on
capital as against 9.8, 13.3, 15.8 and 17.3 p.c.
back to 1927. The div., which was at tne
rate of 9 p.c. for the first half, was dropped
to 8 p.c. and then to 6 p.c. for the last
quarter, making an average of 8 p.c. for the
year—it is the first time the Wales has paid
less than 9 p.c. since the old co-partnery
closed its existence in 1850.
This surprised the market, but the drop
in the price of the scrip was more than
regained. At £3l 10s. the £2O shares return
,3.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, or a wink
over 5 p.c. should the div. be lifted to 8 p.c.
After allowing for absorption of the Aus-
tralian Bank of Commerce, capital and re-
serves combined need net only 4.3 p.c. to
pay an 8 p.c. div., and better than that
might be expected under settled conditions.
Meanwhile, much will depend upon whether
the provision for contingencies proves to be
adequate; it is known to be substantial.
To what extent last week’s drop of £5 per
cent, in the exchange on London will directly
affect the banks depends upon the amount
of their surplus funds there and the price
paid for them. The Wales, which does a
large exchange business, may suffer some
losses in this respect; but these would pro-
bably have been offset by the profits made
when the rate was pushed up to £l3O in
January last.
_ Balance-sheet figures disclose a solid finan-
cial structure, as they always have done, and
trading conditions are reflected by the
movements:—
iqon 1090 1000 IQ2I
Notes £832,882 £584,091 £527,027 £481,455
Bills, etc. 10,049,549 7,284,445 6,068,480 4,264,758
Deposits.. 50,068,085 66,056,052 66,238,223 69,388,093
Liquids... 29,289,187 27,047,606 24,818,897 31,119,729
Advances. 39,425,089 59,427,960 60,400,511 55,109,240
Premises. 820,000 1,450,000 1,600,000 1,800,000
The contraction in the notes figures reflects
conditions in Maoriland; the growth in
deposits occurred mainly in the Victorian
section of the business; a lot of capital
which took fright in N. S. Wales fled to the
Southern State. No Government is indebted
to the bank on overdraft; the Treasury
bills can be re-discounted at the Common-
wealth Bank. When the books close liquids
amounted to 41.9 p.c. of the liabilities to the
public, and the bank was holding £5 11s. 9d.
of outside money for every £1 of its own
funds.
Arrangements for absorption of the A.B.C.
as from June 30 last were made in Sep-
tember, but legal formalities have delated
completion of the deal, which will be finalised
on Dec. 17. Shareholders in the A.B.C.
will receive two shares of £2O each in the
Wales for every £69 (face value) of their
own paper. This will advance tne Wales’s
paid capital to £8,780,000, and its reserves,
visible or otherwise, will benefit by
£1,066,267. The amount of business involved
is about £11,000,000 each of advances and
deposits, mainly in N. S. Wales.
The T. and G.
These are the initials by which the Aus-
tralasian Temperance and General Mutual
Life Assurance Society, Ltd., is known
throughout Australia and Maoriland, where
it has been writing policies for the last 55
years:—
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Bept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£•£/£/ £ £
1921 .. 556,669 102,501 162,066 292,102 2,376,829
1922 .. 651,114 119,104 176,085 355,925 2,732,754
1923 . . 747,049 130,123 205,018 411,908 3,144,662
1924 . . 845,875 148,245 232,516 465,114 3,609,776
Transferred from Industrial, £19,473.. 3,629,249
1925 . . 955,169 153,991 278,385 522,793 4,152,042
1926 1.067,219 169,010 335,016 563,193 4,715,235
1927 1,200,326 189,528 340,957 669,841 5,385,076
1.128 1,330,995 199,420 409,567 722,008 6.107,084
1929 1,480,462 240,043 530,073 710,346 6,817,430
Written off premises, £4900 . . . . 6,812,530
Transferred to contingency fund, £7300.. 6,805,230
1930 1,619,556 262,586 603,373 753,597 7,558,827
Written off premises, £49,036 .. 7,509,791
Transferred to contingency fund, £36,777. . 7,473,014
1931 1,701,929 281,880 7.59,152 660,897 8,133,911
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Bept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£j £ £ £ £
1921 .. 865,852 303,240 141,291 421,321 2,266,916
1922 .. 991,568 343,108 159,501 488,959 2,755,875
1923 ..1,141,979 386,456 212,235 543,288 3.299.163
1924 . . 1,298,264 437,360 263,094 607,810 3,906,973
Transferred to Ordinary, £19,473 .. 3,887,500
1925 .. 1,460,029 479,447 349,723 630,859 4,518,359
1926 .. 1,633,937 521,034 443,510 669,393 5,187,752
1927 .. 1,823,352 583,528 544,947 694,877 5,882,629
1928 ..1,981,156 612,063 641,205 727,888 6,610,517
1929 .. 2,143,427 662,369 799,008 682,050 7,292,567
Written off premises, £5lOO .. .. 7,287,467
Transferred to contingency fund, £7700.. 7,279,767
1930 ..2,224,967 680,186 901,607 643,174 7,922.941
Written off premises, £50,868 .. 7,872,073
Transferred to contingency fund, £113,151.. 7,758,922
1931 .. 2,188,137 661,797 929,514 596,826 8,355,748
Combining the figures of the _ two depart-
ments, the amount of new business written
(£10,453,176) was £1,865,526 short of_ the
previous year’s, and surrenders (£638,554)
were £200,223 heavier; both signs of the
times. However, the Society is thoroughly
healthy, and its strength has been further
developed, despite the year’s difficulties. The
spring in total income (£3,908,292) w'as
£52,257; net premiums (£2,972,891) were
£15,002 lighter, but interest and rents
(£935,401) brought in an extra £67,258.
After satisfying all legitimate claims, pay-
ing exes., striking £lOO,OOO off the book
value of premises and strengthening the con-
tingency reserve (now £324,932) by
£156,346, £1,009,709 of the year’s takings
was added to the life funds, raising them to
£16,505,694 at September 30.
Notwithstanding heavier lapses, the writ-
ing off, the provision for contingencies and a
growth of £51,141 in the taxgatherer’s bill
(£130,377), the actuary was able to figure
a larger surplus for division amongst policy-
holders :
1920. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Net surplus:—
Ordinary .. £61,165 £367,785 £398,612 £389,768
Industrial .. 33,261 184,699 190,059 237,111
Total .. £94,426 £552,484 £588,671 £626,879
In the Ordinary branch bonuses were a
trifle lighter, but were maintained at the
old scale in the Industrial department. The
basis of valuation was changed from a mixed
Si p.c. and 3 p.c. to a uniform 3 p.c. Under
the reversionary honus system each succes-
sive bonus has a higher reserve value than
its predecessor; hence the necessity for
widening margins in the,future. The method
of valuing by a low rate of interest meets
this need by locking up during the early
years of a policy sums which would be other-
wise available for distribution and by re-
leasing them with interest at a later stage.
The slip in new business was mostly in
the Ordinary branch: —
1920. 1930. 1931.
Policies .. .. 15,791 20,077 21,053
Amount . . . . £2,756,710 £6,553,128 £5,421,427
First premiums .. 88,798 218,673 199,109
Renewals .. .. 276,813 972,306 1,031,188
Interest, etc. . . 101,872 421,422 458,694
Excluding taxation, exes, made off with
17.1 p.c. of the year’s net premiums as
against 18.8, 19, 18.6 and 19.5 p.c. for the
four preceding terms. The first premiums
cost 70.6 p.c. as against 74.9 p.c. in 1929;
that is assuming that new business is 10
times more expensive than old.
There was improvement in the Industrial
section, too. Here exes, took 35 p.c. of the
net premiums, compared with 36 p.c. the
year before. The new business written
(£5,031,749) was £733,825 short of 1930
figures.
The net interest return was 6s. lighter
at £5 os. 9d. per cent, of mean funds. The
slip was due almost entirely to extra Gov-
ernment bleeding; the current year’s return
will be further affected by interest-reduction
legislation.
Funds in the Society’s care (£17,110,589
at Sept. 30) have been placed in the follow-
ing proportions:—
1915. 1920. 1927. 1930. 1931.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Public securities .. 34.9 64.4 75.5 62.5 62.3
Loans . . . . 43.0 23.2 14.7 24.6 25.1
Freeholds . . . . 16.3 9.8 7.7 10.6 10.5
Cash and sundries .. 5.8 2.6 2.1 2.3 2.1
Most of the year’s surplus was put into
public securities (£10,657,127, up £618,643)
and loans on policies (£1,355,198, up
£277,333). The net increase of £88,979 in
the book value of freeholds (£1,790,751) was
on account of the rebuilding of the Sydney
premises, now almost complete.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing.
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 13,089 8 p.c. = 10,000 3,089 35,767
1922.. 18,183 12 „ ~ 16,983 1,200 36,967
1923.. 24,155 121 „ „ 18,750 5,405 42,372
1924.. 26,228 15 „ „ 23,853 2,375 44,747
1925.. 36,620' 174 „ ~33,162 3,458 48,205
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. 23,205
1926.. 44,813 171 p.c. = 39,404 5,409 28,614
1927.. 54,548 171 „ ~46,294 8,254 36,868
1928.. 29,972 10 ~ „ 29,063 909 37,777
1929.. 51,511 121 „ ~39,488 12,023 49,800
1930.. 34,027 74 „ „ 25,397 8,630 58,430
1931.. 24,302 6 „ „ 21,000 3,302 61,731
Lighter incomes and the spread of unem-
ployment checked the spring in turnover
which was expected to follow on the heels of
import prohibition and tariff increases. This,
and unequal competition from Government-
subsidised factories which are run at a loss,
and the steady fall in prices are reflected in
a further drop of £15,174 in last year’s gross
profits of this energetic manufacturer of
canned foods and condiments-
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1913 .. £36,848 £21,832 £2,293
1915 .. 44,164 28,601 2,246
1920 .. 65,811 44,256 5,833
1927 .. 173,464 105,773 13,176
1928 .. 150,044 107,619 12,544
1929 .. 180,982 114,990 14,625
1930 .. 148,787 110,194 10,919
1931 .. 133,613 99,637 10,102
Still, exes, were got back £10,557, despite
heavier taxation. But taking unexplained
additions to reserves into the reckoning, the
net result was no more than 6.9 p.c. on
capital compared with 10, 16.3, 10.3, 20.6
and 19.9 p.c. back to 1926. The policy has
been to distribute profits as they were
earned, so 1|- points were knocked off the
div., reducing it to 6 p.c.; the average div.
over the last decade was 12.8 p.c., which
was sweetened with £25,000 of bonus scrip
in 1925. It is a splendid achievement con-
sidering the quick development of the busi-
ness, to finance which £200,000 of fresh
capital has been gathered since 1921.
While additions to fixed assets have been
financed mainly by the introduction of fresh
share capital, the co. had lately gone a bit
into debt in order to carry more stocks and
book debts:—
1921. 1926. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £125,000 £250,000 £350,000 £350,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 64,105 53,905 150,187 88,653
Property, plant
and goodwill 79,958 153,067 241,039 238,034
Stock.. .. 92,839 87,987 261,088 204,651
Debtors and
bills .. 55,813 100,783 76,880 80,680
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 6,263 30,086 5,007 8,020
Last year the book value of stocks was
worked down £56.437, and £61,534 was
knocked off the debt. The more or less
liquid surplus (£204,698, including stocks)
sprang £11,910. Plant is thoroughly effi-
cient, but needs to be kept fully employed
to earn the best results.
Prospects for this ; and other well-handled
manufacturing concerns are as bright as any-
thing of the kind can be in the circum-
stances. The market, which thinks that
the co. can do a bit better, prices the pound
shares at 275. as against 235. a year ago.
Allowing for the div., the return at 275. is
4.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, or 6.2 p.c.
should the distribution climb to' 8 p.c.
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, —— Dividends
6 p.c. Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. serves.
Jan., £ £ £ £
1921.. 582,979 89,084 12 p.c. = 491,987 36,178
Special div. from subsidiaries, £628,591,
distributed as bonus shares.
1922.. 751,373 89,084 12 p.c.= 661,067 37,400
1923.. 773,202 89,084 12 „ ~682,400 39,118
1924.. 776,535 89,084 12 p.c. = 685,844 40,725
1925.. 779,452 89,084 12 „ „ 689,034 42,059
1926.. 783,453 89,084 12 „ „ 692,684 43,744
1927.. 786,876 89,084 12 „ „ 696,354 45,182
Co. reconstructed; shares in subsi-
-12 m’ths diaries written up, £2,324,131,
to and that amount capitalised.
Oct., 64 p.c.
1928.. 916,506 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 7,659
1929. . 1,011,307 96,507 11 „ ~894,791 27,668
1930. . 1,074,672 96,507 12 „ ~976,135 29,698
1931.. 747,927 96,507 8 „ ~ 650,757 30,361
At Oct. 31 this co.’s £9,735,805 of funds,
£104,258 of which was coming to _ creditors,
etc., were invested £7,722,192 in shares
in tobacco manufacturing subsidiaries;
£2,016,414, debtors and debit balances
(mainly advances to the pups) ; £15,199,
cash. The subsidiaries comprise W. D. and
H. O. Wills, British Australian Tobacco (a
combination of the Cameron and part of
the Dixson businesses) and the States Tobacco
Co. (which embraced Sutton’s, and Jocobs,
Hart and Co. and the other part of Dixson’s
business). They all decided to go on to the
market together in 1903; S. T. Leigh and
Co., the printers and carton-makers, were
sandwiched in later. Altogether they have
been such a vigorous and profitable lot that,
although the curtain remains drawn over
their figures, the business has earned for
itself the reputation of being one of Aus-
talia’s most prosperous industrial organisa-
tions; and the parent’s scrip is amongst the
leaders in the market.
Most of the leaf is imported. Thus last
year’s spring in both the tariff and ex-
change, together with stinging increases in
income and other taxes, swelled outgoings,
while the public curtailed its expenditure
on smokes. Hence the subsidiaries sent along
less, and the parent’s net income, after pro-
viding for extra Government bleeding of
2s. in the £ on income from property, was
£326,745 lighter than the previous year’s.
So the ord. div. was dropped to 10 p.c.
p.a. for the first and to 6 p.c. p.a. for the
second half, making 8 p.c. for the year; but
the gift issue of 1927 makes 8 p.c. worth
31.2 p.c. to old holders. However, the drop
fitted in pretty well with market anticipa-
tions. The price of the scrip rose froni
31s. 6d. in December last to 355. 6d. in
April, then fell sharply after the taxation
announcements in May. touching its lowest
point (255. 6d.) in September; but the
figure moved forward with the general
advance after the fall in sterling, reaching
295. 3d. last week-end. At 295. 3d. the
return is 4.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for an immediate return
of p.c. on his outlay counts on the eo.
paying 8 p.c.
A steady 12 p.c., sweetened with £628.591
of bonus scrip, was paid for a dozen years
or so after the public became interested
shortly before the war. Then the two-for-
five gift of four years ago (it called for
£2,324,131, and was provided by writing up
the book value of shares in other cos.) lifted
paid capital to the present £9,619,186 in
I, prefs. and 8.134.459 ords. The
pref. div. was lifted from 6 p.c. to 6| p.c.:
the ord. div. was dropped to 10 p.c.,
but rose to 12 p.c. again, profits transferred
from the subsidiaries making _ an obliging
spring. There is nothing to indicate that
the gift-giving has been overdone; the board
continues its assurance that profits disclosed
do not include undistributed earnings of the
subsidiaries.
The pref. div., though free from Mr.
Dang’s 22J p.c. cut, is subject to a deduc-
tion of 2s. in the £ on account of Common-
wealth super-tax. Allowing for this, the
return at 225. 6d. is 5.7 p.c.; last year’s
profit covered the annual pref. requirements
over 74 times.
Executor, Trustee and Agency Co. of S.A.
Added
Writ- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ •£ £ £
1919.. 7,177 10 p.c. = 2,413 1000 3764 53,991
Premiums on new shares .. 5825 59,816
1920.. 10,884 12 p.c. = 4,478 1000 5406 65,222
1921.. 10,333 12 „ „ 6,000 1160 3173 68,395
1922.. 10,033 12 „ „ 6,000 1500 2533 70,928
Specific reserve taken in .. 100 71,028
1923.. 10,674 12 p.c. = 6,000 - 4674 75,702
1924.. 11,400 12 „ „ 6,000 L 1()Q 7Q 102
Provident Fund, £2OOO j ’
1925.. 13,675 12 p.c. = 9,000 251 ( 3g24 83 0 26
Provident Fund, £5OO j ’
1926.. 17,760 12 p.c. = 12,000 247 1 88 039
Provident Fund, £5OO j s<Ud
1927.. 17,905 12 p.c. = 12,000 256 9 o 188
Providend Fund, £5OO j
1928. . 18,506 12 p.c. = 12,000 260 1,-.- Q 8 q ,-
Provident Fund, £5OO I ’
1929. . 16,564 12 p.c. = 12,000 254 } 3870 102;745
Provident Fund, £5OO J
1930.. 16,010 12 p.c. = 12,000 307 1 3203 106 948
Provident Fund, £5OO )
1931.. 10,997 8 P.c. == 8,000 289 \ 2208 108>156
♦Provident Fund, £500....]
This is Australia’s second oldest trustee co.
It added £283,696 net to the volume of trusts
on the books last year as against £948,840
in the previous term. Commission earnings
(£29,747) were £4048 lighter, the trust busi-
ness being worth ss. 9d. per cent, compared
with 6s. §d. per cent, in 1930, and interest,
rents, etc. (£9426), slipped £1205, making
the shrinkage in gross income £5253 :
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Expenses. Income.
1920.. £4,568,146 £22,477 £11,388 50.6
1925.. 6,480,945 31,581 18,006 57.0
1927.. 7,775,317 42,327 24,365 57.5
1928.. 8,302,728 44,439 26,046 58.6
1929.. 9,087,768 44,297 27,733 62.6
1930.. 10,036,608 44,426 28,416 63.9
1931.. 10,320,304 39,173 28,176 71.9
The slip was due to the collapse of values
and interest-reduction legislation, both of
which affected commissions, rents and other
earnings. Also, the lifelessness of real estate
(Continued on page 16.)


T. and G.
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
The Balance-sheet and Report for 1931, to be presented to Members at the Annual
Meeting of the Society on the 18th December, will
SHOW the FOLLOWING REMARKABLE RESULTS
1911
1921
1931
1911
1921
1931
1911
1921
1931
INCOME
£364,904
£1,422,521
£3,908,292
NEW BUSINESS
£2,304,031
£7,394,568
£10,453,176
ASSETS
£1,199,148
£5,144,904
£17,110,588
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
1911
1921
1931
£6,688,329
£21,532,846
£54,411,687
The T. and G. Mutual Life Society is one of the Strongest and one
of the most Progressive Life Offices in the British Empire
. V . ....... v* I - V. •
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited.
J. T. THOMPSON, Esq., Chairman.
r. McDonald, Esq.
DIRECTORS:
P. R. SUTHERLAND, Esq.
W. FORSTER WOODS, Esq.
A. R. STEWART, Esq.
Col. C. E. MERRETT, C.8.E., V.D.


The Future of the
Market.
This is one of the subjects dis-
cussed in the December “ Wild
Cat’ Monthly.’’
“The Monthly” puts the work
of a staff of accountants and
investment specialists at your
disposal.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Codlison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, H.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
The all round excellence of Pioneer Wood Pipe
as a conduit for any type of liquid conveyance is
illustrated in most convincing form in the many
important schemes for water supply where Pioneer
Wood Pipe has been used. These installations have
shown that Pioneer Wood Pipe is absolutely reliable,
possesses great strength, is unaffected by heat, frost
or electrolysis—is definitely non-corrosive and ex-
tremely durable. Remember, too, that the initial
cost, and the cost of handling, transporting and
laying, are considerably less with Pioneer Wood
Pipe than with any other type. A request will
bring you full particulars. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Engineer, as working partners join syndicate develop-
ing proved goldmine. Winding machinery erected.
Must be prepared invest £200. Hamilton King
Gold Mining Syndicate, Ebagoolah, via Cooktown,
N.Q. —Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD. AND REDUCED.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting: Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, send your-gold by post (insured) to any of our offices.
The Company will realise it on your account at current London prices plus
exchange.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc..
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 45 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
and other markets in S. Aus., where general
slump trod on the heels of the worst drought
since the beginning of this century, prevented
the winding up of many estates. Though a
tight hold was kept upon exes., they made
off with an extra £8 of each £lOO of income.
Thus, after allowing for the contribution to
the provident fund and the writing off, the
net result was 10.2 p.c. on capital as against
35.2, 15.8, 17.7, 17.1 and 17 p.c. back to
1926, and the div., which had been steady at
12 p.c. since 1919, was dropped to 8 p.c.
Capital and reserves combined, as at Sept.
30, need net only 3.8 p.c. to cover an 8 p.c.
div., and with the outlook a little improved
that should be easy enough, especially since
the co. does not have to risk much, apart
from the chances it takes when it invests
its own funds.
The following table shows how these funds
have been placed :
1921. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £50,000 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 146 165 148 150
Govt, securities
and cash .. 84,596 93,719 94,513 97,619
Advances to
estates .. 9,190 23,041 21,796 18,868
Freeholds .. 18,442 68,934 68,934 68,934
Mortgages .. 4,495 7,175 8,967 9,445
Sundries .. 4,919 16,041 17,886 17,432
Of course, the reduction of interest, etc.,
under the national debt conversion and S.
Aus. Financial Emergency Act will affect
returns from these investments, which
brought in 9.4 p.c. on capital last year.
On the other hand, expansion of the busi-
ness and accumulation of funds will help
to swell the returns.
The pound shares called to ss. fetch 10s. 6d.
on the market. The return at that price
is 3.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, or 4.7
p.c. should the div. be lifted to 10 p.c. The
cover is 41s. 7d. in net tangibles.
Invincible Colliery, which works the Litli-
gow seam at Cullen Bullen on the Western
N. S. Wales field, showed a loss of £1342
for the 12 months to Sept. 5 ; no div. was
paid. There is £104,000 of capital, of which
Howard Smith holds £66,321. For the five
years to the close of accounts in 1930,
profits averaged 9.4 p.c. on capital, and the
average div. was 7.5 p.c. In July, 1929, the
co. lost its contract with the N. S. Wales
Government railways, but owing to the hold-up
at Maitland the slip in the co.’s 1930 output
(127,096 tons) was only 14,518 tons. The
contraction last year was 76,300 tons, and
prices had to be cut to place the 50,794 tons
that were hauled. No. 2 tunnel lias been
closed, and a tight hold is being kept upon
outgoings. But the future of the industry
is very uncertain. The Lang Government
aims at placing it under the control of a.
board of three —a representative each of the
owners and employees, and a chairman
appointed by the Government. It is pro-
posed to give the board power to regulate
output, wages, divs., and a host of other
things; all profits in excess of 10 p.c. p.a. on
capital, together with one-tenth of the
remaining profits, to be paid into a fund to
be administered by the board. The co.’s
scrip has not an active market.
* & # $
Misima Options, which is on the market
with 100,000 shares of Is. each, is tho latest
of many who have aspired to exploit the
alleged Eldorado of Misima Island in the
Louisades, Papua. It is 50 years or more
since the first gold rush to St. Aignan’s, as
the island was then called, and from that day
to this it has been combed and scratched
without anyone benefiting the income-tax
commissioners much. The new co. proposes
to tafce over leases held by Mt.. Sisa of
odoriferous memory. These consist of small
deposits and a big lode. The small bodies are
returning 60s. per ton by direct amalgama-
tion methods, but what tonnage was put
through is not stated. Plant on the spot can
treat five tons per day; the capacity is to
be lifted to 20 tons daily. The big lode
has a proved width of 64ft.; length, 200 ft.;
“height,” 46ft.; all told, 34,800 tons assaying
275. per ton. Preliminary work on the big-
lode, estimated to cost £5OO for the first year,
is expected to open up another 250,000 tons
of ore. N. Higgins takes 50.000 paids and
£6OO cash for options, and W. H. Gordon
20,000 paids for two mining areas.
New Guinea Goldfields, which has post-
poned its annual meeting until early in
January, has made considerable progress
toward production within the past few
months. Installation of the central power
plant is complete, thus enabling develop-
ment below water level to be pushed forward.
Plant for treating the ore body at the Wan
has been landed on the field, and the mill
should be working early in the new year.
The co.’s application to have its holdings
declared a special area under the Mining
Ordinance has been granted by the Adminis-
tration, which means that, provided a fixed
sum is spent annually on development, it is
now no longer necessary to man individual
leases. Early in the year tributes were let
for the alluvial ground, and to September
30 the co.’s share of production was worth
£34,646. When the tributes expire in Janu-
ary tho co. intends to work the alluvial
leases itself.
* * * *
The exceptionally good crushings from
the Golden Surprise, North Arm, near
Gympie (Q.), have given out. Valid
reasons account for it; a long tunnel has
been driven to crosscut for parallel veins,
and has to date tested a width of 315 ft.
Results have been disappointing; several
auriferous quartz bodies have been proved,
but they are very small. Development work
on the Surprise has been held up by mill
construction. Amalgamation will not be
easy, owing to complex ore. However, the
next run is expected to give a high-grade
crushing. On the Golden Wonder, Quincey
and Corvi are developing a promising reef
with good values in it, the lowest assay going-
over 3oz.
* * * *
The new Cracow goldfield, near Theodore
(Q.), was lately stirred from months of
somnolence by the arrival of Randolph Bed-
ford, who snapped up a couple of promising
options ahead of other anglers. He is
reputed to be acting on behalf of a Sydney
group, and secured rights over Lambert’s
claim at a figure that may prove to be
between £lO,OOO and £20,000. Another show
secured was the South Arm P.A., where a
20ft. quartz reef was lately tested to a
depth of 50ft. A sample taken from this lode
assayed 22dwt., but if it averages half that
value Bedford and his friends will have
secured a prize.
■J.: * * *
The Mt. Peter goldfield, near Cairns (Q.),
is a little hive of industry these days. The
battery, renovated by the Government, opened
its account with a crushing from the Mt.
Peter Extended. This was low-grade, 67
tons yielding 250 z. of gold. The 60-odd ton
parcel from the Talisman Amalgamated is
nearly through, and the owners expect an
average of over loz. Small crushings of rich
ore, showing occasional specimen gold, are
waiting their turn, but the bigger bodies of
ore on the field are rather on the low side.
* * * *
Two prospectors, Johnson and Mathews,
while fossicking for gold at Deep Creek,
Araluen (N.S.W.), discovered a rich deposit
of molybdenite. The extent of the find has
not yet been determined, but the pair have
pegged an 80-acre claim. Samples sent to
the Mines Department assayed 85 p.c. The
metal, which is an ingredient of special
stee'ls, is worth about £l4O per ton at the
moment. It fetched up to £5OO during the war.
* # # #
Reporting on the discovery of gold at
Combienbar, East Gippsland, Baragwanath,
Tic. director of geological survey, says that
with narrow lodes and concentrated values
the shed of gold in loams would be restricted.
Loam taken by chance from debris around
an overturned tree gave a showing of. fine
gold, which Stagg and Olsen traced in a
few days to the present workings. It was
the yield of 60oz. to the ton for two tons
that turned attention to the find. The
northern continuation of the same belt of
strata was worked 20 years ago in Golden
Gully, two miles further up. The alluvial
gold there was shotty, and nuggets up to
9oz. were found. Owing to the fine nature
of the gold—some of it is invisible to the
naked eye—prospecting is not easy, particu-
larly in the absence of quartz reefs to serve
as a guide.
* * *
“One of Them” : Shareholders and deben-
ture-holders of Westralian Manganese Co.
are expecting the worst. The State Govern-
ment has demanded immediate payment of a
debt of £115.710, plus £21,527 interest. This
debt was incurred years ago to complete the
co.’s railway from Meekatharra to its man-
ganese deposits 80 miles away. There is next
to nothing in the till, and prospects of raising
the wind are far from bright. When the
show was floated six years ago the price of
manganese was right, but the co. lacked
handling and shipping facilities, and
hasn’t got them yet. So, now that the
Soviet has knocked the bottom out of the
manganese market, the co. is forced to give
up without reaching the producing stage.
:[t * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has issued another
estimate of ore reserves. This time there are
50,000 tons of 9|dwt. stuff and 179,000 tons
of Sldwt. rock, compared with 60,000 tons
of lftldwt. and 154.000 tons of B£dwt. a
year ago. The latest aggregate quantity in
sight is therefore 229,000 tons, assaying
about Bdwt. 18Jgr. per ton, a grade on which
the co. could easily maintain divs. with gold
at its old price.
* * # *
After a long spell of inactivity, Laverton
(W.A.) is being stabbed at depth by the
diamond drill. Sons of Gw r alia has just
bored some dud holes on part of the idle
Lancefield mine, and B. H. Prop, is trying
its luck on the iCraiggiemore, which was
once worked with success by Dr. Laver and
afterwards by a London co. The lode at
Craiggiemore is very large; it became unpay-
able at shallow depth, and, until the Prop,
took a hand, no one seemed game enough to
test it at greater depth.
*•»
Maoriland’s gold production should get a
nice lift if but a few of the properties now
being developed turn out as anticipated. The
large steel dredge of the Rimu Co., at Hoki-
tika, is complete ; this displaces the wooden
one that during the last 10 years fished
up 16 million yards, worth per yard,
and is expected to give better returns. The
Gold Progress Co., Central Otago, cleaned
up for its first crushing 3280 z. of retorted
gold from 208 tons. Backwater Mines, Ltd.,
at Reefton, which made a mine profit of
£9716 during 1930, has 84,000 tons assay-
ing 9.6dwt. developed, and plans to increase
output. Underground operations at the Tas-
manian Dubbo, Karangahake, have opened
up the high-grade Maria reef, and crushing
begins shortly.
* H: * #
Malayan mining returns show improve-
ment, due to the rise in the price of tin.
The Alluvial Tin group had six shows at
work during November, and each showed a
working profit. Rawang, a combined sluic-
ing and dredging concern, won 45 tons of
ore which realised £3675; costs were £2130
(2.5 d. per yard), leaving £1545 to the good.
On the market ss. 6d. is asked for the f.-p.
10s. shares. Malim Nawar, now solely a
sluicing proposition, gathered £2lOO, but
after paying exes, only £437 remained in.
the kitty. It has £25,000 of 8 p.c. deben-
tures, redemption of which is overdue.
Kampong Lanjut’s £3908 realisation was
docked £2158 for exes., leaving £1750 profit.
A 6d. div. will be sent out on Dec. 16. Sellers
want 225. 9d. for the £1 shares. Ivramat
earned £6066, which cost £2158 to recover,
and is sending out 6d. a share on Dec. 19.
Its pound shares fetch 31s. in the market.
Rawang Concessions, having produced its
quota, worked for only half the month, but
started again on December 1. The fort-
night’s digging realised £2333, of which costs
(3.6 d. per yard) took £992. The co. has
earned a good profit since it started pro-
duction in July, 1929. Kuala Kampar
closed down No. 2 dredge at the end of
November, but No. 1 started on Dec. 1.
Earnings for November were £3266, and the
working profit £1487. The scrip is on offer
at 6s. 9d. The 60 p.c. restriction imposed
by the F.M.S. Government for the three
months to the end of November has been
extended to the end of February.
* >!i * *
Despite the drop in Australian-London
exchange Electrolytic Refining, Port Kembla,
paid £7 Bs. Id. last week as against
£7 4s. lid. the week before for fine gold.
The rise was due to the fall of sterling as
low as $3.30. (Par is $4.86.) London spot
price at the week-end was £6 2s. per oz.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is Placer Development a sound investment
at 935. ?—7320.
All mining ventures are speculative. On
this basis, and on data thus far available
the shares do not appear to be overpriced
at 935. At Oct. 1 Placer held 151,745 of
Bulolo’s 700,000 issued shares. Bulolo
figures on net profits aggregating 13,644,000
dollars from its original holding; Placer’s
proportion of this would be 2,998,061 dollars.
That would be sufficient to cover a return of
Placer’s present capital and provide divs.
averaging 5 p.c. p.a. for 13 years at the cur-
rent price of 935. However, Placer will
have more shares in Bulolo when it. hands
over the Bulowat area, in which 42,000,000
c.y. of 16d. dirt has been proved, and a
further 18,000,000 c.y, of like value are
expected to be developed. Placer’s other
interests include Arnold’s leases, a small but
rich patch, north of Bulolo’s holdings, and
the Burnside area, yet to be proved. Bulolo
is expected to begin dredging in March next.
What is the position of shareholders in
Motor and Casjv Orders, Ltd.? —7310.
Accounts for 1930 not yet presented. Last
month P. Freeman (director), A. F. Gate-
house (secretary) and A. M. Preston (agent)
were charged by warrant at the police court
with having circulated a false statement in
regard to the co.’s affairs. At Aug. 31, 1929,
paid capital was £84,591 in 31,204 prefs.,
10 p.c. cumulative, and 66,967 ords. There
was £2047 coming to creditors. Advances,
etc., figured at £69,295 ; cash, £769; fittings,
£1184; intangibles, £26,240. Including
£13,580 of called but unpaid capital, the
prefs. were covered by net tangibles with a
paper value of 535. per share. Similar cover
for ords. was 15s. Bd.
What is the liability of shareholder's
respectively in (1) a corporation, (2) a
company ?- —7304.
There is no legal difference between
a company and a corporation. In each the
shareholder is liable for amount uncalled
on his shares. If his shares are fully paid
he has no further liability.
Any considerable demand for dolomite
oilier than at the 'Newcastle Steel Works?
Firms which ivould be likely to buy in quan-
tities?—7043.
Dolomite is used chiefly as a refractory
lining for steel furnaces. The demand for
the mineral in Australia is very limited, as
the steel manufacturers obtain supplies from
their own quarries. Broken Hill Prop., New-
castle, and Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.,
Port Kembla, are the principal users.
Any market for rutile? Price? —6989.
A ready market for clean rutile overseas.
Price generally ranges from £4O to £5O per
ton for concentrates containing 94 p.c. to 96
p.c. titanium dioxide.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.J.H. : Poor in resources and prospects
gloomy... .F.P.L.: Not listed anywhere. Best hope
of a sale is through the secretary.... Student: The
Macmillan Report; “Credit and Currency Control,” by
Copland.... F.N.: Co. sold its outfit to Mt. Isa for
125,000 Isa shares. Of these 112,500 were long ago
distributed; the balance were held to pay income
tax, etc. The last 3450 of these shares are now
being distributed—l 3 for every 1000 shares held;
fractions in .cash. Write the secretary, 115 Pitt-
street, Sydney.


PROSPECTUS of
National Tobacco Company Limited
Manufacturers of Queensland-grown Tobacco
(Incorporated in Queensland under the Companies Acts 1862-1913.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL ... - £50.000
of which
25,000 Shares of £1 each are now offered to the public for subscription on the following terms: 2/6 per
share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment, and the balance in calls of 2/6 per share each
month, the first call being payable one month after allotment . . £25,000
7,120 Shares of £1 each have been subscribed for 7,120
5,000 Shares of £1 each fully paid have been issued to the original Vendors and their nominees for
considerations as set out later herein 5,000
12,880 Shares of £1 each are to be held in Reserve for issue at the discretion of the Directors 12,880
50,000
£50,000
DIRECTORS:
REG H. JULIUS (Chairman)
Luya Julius, Ltd., 95-97 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
E. H. BODEN, Architect,
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Brisbane.
J. M. GRAY BUCHANAN,
Investor, Ascot, Brisbane.
(Two other Directors may be appointed.)
BANKERS:
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOLICITORS:
MESSRS. MACNISH, MACROSSAN & DOWLING,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
AUDITOR:
F. E. NORTH, Chartered Accountant (Aust.)i
Q.P.I. Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SECRETARY:
MISS E. R. BOWDEN,
C/o National Tobacco Company, Limited,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
OBJECTS:
The objects of the Company are:—
1. To carry on the manufacture of Tobacco and Cigarettes from Australian
(principally Queensland) grown Leaf.
2. To carry on the growing of Tobacco Leaf in Queensland and, in
particular, at Beaudesert Road, near Brisbane,
THE COMPANY’S OPERATIONS.
The Company was registered on 21st April, 1931, and commenced operations at Ann Street, Valley,
in a small factory and with approximately ten employees. It soon became apparent from the demand
for the Company’s products that it would be impossible to continue in such a small way, and in
. August the factory was moved to commodious premises in Collin House, Adelaide Street, where the
Company now occupies two floors with a very extensive floor area and employs approximately 90
employees.
It will be realised that such a rapid extension of the business would not be warranted unless a
demand for the Company’s products had been created, and in this regard the following record of
sales of the Company shows the extraordinary increase over such a short period of the sales:—
May .. .. 13381 b. August.. .. 12,3341 b.
June .. 17751 b. September .. 13.2271 b.
July .. .. 88151 b. October .. 16,5071 b.
It is interesting to note that from Apm to October tne Uompai.j maue cuan payments of £6404,
being for Customs Excise Duty, which Duty must be paid before the Tobacco is released by the
Customs Department Officer who is stationed continually at the Factory.
The above sales have been made mainly in Queensland and With limited sales to Melbourne, but
do not include any sales to other States, which the Company has been unable to supply owing to local
demand. The sales recorded above are entirely of loose Cigarette Tobacco and Pipe Tobacco, as the
manufacture of Cigarettes has only just been commenced in a small way by hand until the necessary
machinerv has been installed.
It will be appreciated that although such extensive increase in sales is very gratifying, it is a
very difficult matter to finance on Capital which the Company secured in its present issue, particularly
when regard is given to the purchase of next season’s leaf supplies to enable the Company to operate
at full capacity, and it is with the object of securing sufficient capital that the present issue is being
offered to the Public.
Capital for the holding of Deaf to enable maturing to be carried out is also very necessary, and
the Company in this regard has received some little criticism from the Public on its products, but it
must be remembered that it has been necessary to immediately manufacture the Leaf as soon as it has
been received owing: Firstly, to shortage of Leaf due to the present being practically the first season
in which Tobacco has been grown to any extent; Secondly, to the supplies available being far from
Uniform; and Thirdly, to financial reasons, as, with Tobacco Leaf at £3OO to £4OO per ton, it does
not take long for the Company’s present small Capital to be fully absorbed.
THE COMPANY’S PROPOSALS.
The Company, in addition to continuing the manufacture of loose Cigarette Tobacco and Pipe
Tobacco, has the following proposals well in progress.
CIGARETTE MANUFACTURING.- —Cigarettes are now being made by hand pending the completion
of installation of a Cigarette-making machine which is now at the factory in course of erection. It is
anticipated that a large market for Cigarettes will be available and it is interesting to note that the
first sales of the Company’s Hand-made Cigarettes were approximately 85,000 in one day and extensive
repeat orders have since been received,
GROWING OF TOBACCO LEAF. —It is considered very necessary for the Company to have its own
sources of supply for portion of its requirements, and with this object the Company proposes purchasing
1300 acres on the Beaudesert Road, near Brisbane, and on which planting of portion of the area is
proceeding already. The total area cleared to date is Forty-five acres, and approximately another 115
acres will be cleared, and it is anticipated that approximately fifty tons of leaf will be available from
the Company’s own area by next March, and the area under cultivation will be extended in the
following years.
It is not only very advantageous to have its own resources of supply available to the Company,
but the price at which this will be landed into the factory will be approximately half the cost at
which Leaf will be purchased from outside growers, so that a very large saving will thus be effected.
MANUFACTURE OF TINS.—The Company has in hand proposals for the manufacture of portion
of its" own tins at the Factory and this will result in an enormous saving, and the Machinery is now
in course of erection at the Factory.
THE COMPANY’S PRODUCTS.
The Company’s Products have been well and favorably received by Merchants and the General
Public in Queensland and Victoria and this demand is not merely created by a desire to try the lines,
but is being well maintained by repeat orders. The lines have, of course, received some criticism as
regards being placed on the market perhaps a little too early, but, as stated above, the Company had
no other option, and with the new season’s crop the products will be brought to a very high standard
of uniformity.
MARKET.
In viewing the market available, the Company has little to- fear, as it still has a large part of
Queensland untouched so far as sales are concerned, and New South Wales has as yet not been touched;
and with the products inproving continually, no difficulty is anticipated in placing the output.
SUPPLIES.
One of the most important points in the success of the Company is, of course, the availability of
supplies of Leaf.
The growing of Tobacco Leaf has, as is well known, been very extensively proceeded with in
the present season, and large supplies will be available next year and the Company holds Contracts
for the supply of Leaf from a number of growers. The Company’s own supplies from its own farm
will also assist in this respect.
COMPANY’S EXPERT AND FACTORY MANAGER.
It is essential that a competent manufacturer be available to the Company for the treatment and
manufacture of Tobacco and the Company has secured, under a five years’ agreement, the services of
Mr. Lasor Dorin, who has spent a lifetime in tobacco manufacture in all its phases.
Mr. Dorin, in addition to being an expert tobacco grower (for which he holds certificates), is the
inventor of several machines which are now in general use in the tobacco industry. He has also a
special knowledge of the curing and blending of the leaf, having spent 36 years in the tobacco
business, both on the Continent and in Australia, during which period he has manufactured such well-
known lines as “Cavalier” and “Golden West.”
SCOPE FOR DEVELOPMENT AND GENERAL POSSIBILITIES
OF THE COMPANY.
In viewing the general possibilities of the Company it is interesting to note the progress of other
Manufacturing Tobacco Companies.
The British Tobacco Company (Australia), Limited, commenced with a Chpital of £2BO and its
present Capital is in the vicinity of £10,000,000, and its profits have been spectacular.
In New Zealand, Tobacco Manufacturing Companies have made enormous profits and the attached
extract from the “Otago Daily Times” of July 25, 1931, dealing with a new Company about to
commence and referring to the profits of the National Tobacco Company, Limited (of New Zealand),
makes interesting reading and shows the possibilities in such a venture.
the following extracts are of particular interest:—
, National Tobacco Company, Ltd., is a tobacco manufacturing concern at Napier which
has gladdened the hearts of investors. This Company, since 1925, has cut up a melon for its share-
noKierh of 100 per cent, capital increment, and is returning a 15 per cent, dividend on its capital
f, we . as /he bonus share, thus giving an annual return of 30 per cent, on money invested, while
a p f® fer t° ‘ cash in ’ have stood to make £5 for every £l. In addition, it should
i n were ‘watered’ in 1928 to the tune of 35,000 £1 shares in favor of
rllfi wti « ' • Hushee.r, m consideration of his formula and services. This Company was
a neu by the financial critics in its day, but its magnificent record is now a matter of history.”
‘•The following figures illustrate convincingly the growth of demand for cigarettes and tobacco
in New Zealand. A New Zealand tobacco manufacturing Company whose paid-up capital' to October
shares and the sale of additional shares at a premium.
“Thus the profits earned during the years 1927, 1928 and 1929 equalled 53.53 per cent., 71 per cent,
and 78.9 per cent, respectively on the capital contributed by shareholders.
“After distribution of profits for the year ended October 31, 1930, the Company still had reserves
available to the extent of £90,000.
“The Premier Tobacco Company’s issue of 50,000 shares for New Zealand is rapidly being subscribed,
and shares later will be available only at a premium.”
ESTIMATE OF PROFIT.
After carefully checking the figures available, the following conservative estimate has been prepared
by Mr. L. Dorin, the Company’s Manufacturer, and based on an annual output of 300 tons of various
grades of Tobacco, which quantity the factory is quite capable of producing and for which a ready
market is available. The gross profit is after allowing for cost of Leaf, Excise Duty, Wages, Materials,
Containers, Manufacturing Charges, etc.
300 tons of various grades show a gross profit of £27,000, Overhead Charges including: —
Salaries, Rent, Advertising, Secretarial, Audit Fees, Office and General
Expenses and Distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . £5lOO
Annual Reduction of Vendors’ consideration and Preliminary Expenses . 750
Securing Supplies, Travellers’ Expenses, Depreciation of Plant . . 1000
£6,850
Profit
Estimated Income Tax, State and Federal . .
£20,150
6,800
Net Profit £13,350
Return on estimated Capital £37,000, including Vendors’ shares, is 36 per cent., thus enabling
the Company to pay a dividend of 20 per cent, and place 16 per cent, to Reserve.
AGREEMENTS.
The Company has entered into agreements as follows:-
1. —:An Agreement between James Claude Henderson, of Camp Hill, Brisbane; Samuel Joseph
Willmott, of Indooroopillv; and Lasor Dorin, of Gregory Terrace, carrying on business as the
“National Tobacco Company” (a registered firm) as Vendors of the one part and the Company of the
other part, whereby the Vendors agreed to sell and the Company to purchase (inter t alia ) the business,
machinery, plant, stock-in-trade and formulas of the Vendors.
The consideration for such sale was £5300 paid and satisfied.
(a) As to £5OOO by 5000 fully-paid-up shares in the capital of the Company of One Pound
( £1) each.
(b) As to £3OO in cash.
(c) A further sum in cash equal to the landed cost price of aU the stock of tobacco and
tobacco-leaf and other stock.
2. —A service agreement has been made between Lasor Dorin of the one part and the Company
of the other part whereby Mr. Dorin agrees to serve tire Company for a period of five years from the
date of registration of the Company for the salary and on the terms and conditions therein
mentioned.
QUALIFICATIONS FOR DIRECTORS.
A Director’s qualification will be five hundred (500) shares.
ALLOTMENT.
The Company has proceeded to allotment and commenced business on the twenty-second day of
April, 1931.
COST OF FLOTATION.
The Company will pay Brokerage up to 10 per cent, on all contributing shares allotted, and
other expenses are estimated not to exceed £350.
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGE.
Application will be made for the listing of the Company’s shares on the Stock Exchanges throughout
Australia.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
Applications for shares may be made on the formi enclosed, addressed to the Directors, the National
Tobacco Company, Limited, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
S/Übject to the right to refuse any application, the Directors will allot the shares in the order
in which the applications reach the registered office of the Company.
Where no allotment is made the deposit will be returned in full, and where the number of shares
is less than the number applied for the balance of the deposit will be applied towards payment of the
allotment money.
The originals of all documents referred to herein may be inspected at the offices of the Solicitors
of the Company.
Brisbane, Ist December, 1931.
NATIONAL TOBACCO COMPANY, LIMITED.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors,
National Tobacco Company, Limited,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Gentlemen, —I hereby apply for shares of £1 each in the capital
of the above Company, and enclose herewith my cheque for £ , being
the application money for 2/6 per share on such shares.
I request you to allot me that or any less number of shares upon the terms of the
Company’s prospectus, dated Ist December, 1931, and I hereby agree to accept the same or
any smaller number that may be allotted to me, as provided by the said prospectus.
I agree to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the. Company,
and as may be altered to comply with the Stock Exchange Rules and Regulations, and authorise
you to place my name upon the register of members of the Company in respect of the
shares you allot to me.
NAME (in full )
State whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss.
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
DATED
Usual Signature


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Criterion “Let Us Be Gay’’
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
State Movies and Talkies
*
Doris Fitton’s Independent Theatre co.
packed Sydney Savoy last Saturday with a
double bill, comprising Barrie’s “A Kiss for
Cinderella” and Synge’s “The Shadow of
the Glen.” In the Barrie play, which is in
the Peter Pan-ish vein, Cinderella is a little
Cockney waif, maid-of-all-work to Mr. Bodie,
an elderly, kindly, addle-headed sculptor.
The time is London during the war, and
Mr. Bodie, who is a good patriot,. is dis-
turbed at the queer behavior of his maid.
Cinderella (known to the census-taker as
Miss Thing) dwells in a fairy world of
her own creation. Her obscure references
to royalty, aliens and medical practice _so
alarm Mr. Bodie that he consults a passing
policeman. The policeman interviews Cin-
derella, and her mysterious answers .
him to believe that the little drudge is an
enemy spy. He decides to shadow her and
runs her down at her lodgings in a mean
street. There he discovers that Cinderella
has hung her shingle out as adviser to the
neighborhood. At a penny a time she pur-
veys advice on health, fashion and affairs
of'the heart; with the money she feeds and
shelters four little orphan girls—English,
French, Belgian and German. The policeman
drops his official manner and joins in a party
with Cinderella and the kids, Then Cinderella
falls asleep on a doorstep and dreams. A fairy
godmother—dressed as a Bed Cross nurse —
appears and whisks the girl away to a
ball, where there are sandwiches buttered on
both sides, ice-creams for all, rocking-chairs
for thrones and tram-car straps for the Royal
Family to hang on to when they stand up.
Cinderella had never seen a dance, only a
horse show, so the beauties assembled for
the Prince to pick his bride from prance, like
well-bred steeds. Cinderella wins the Prince,
who is no other than the kindly policeman.
The sojourn on the doorstep results in her
catching pneumonia and the last act sees
her back in real life as a convalescent in a
country nursing home where she has been
placed by Mr. Bodie. The policeman re-
appears, this time to. propose. Grace
Hart, who made a hit in “The Constant
Nymph.” was a captivating Cinderella,
and Hawdon Wilson caught the right
note as the policeman-prince. Edward
Howell as the king, and later as a wounded
soldier, raised gusts of laughter; Therese
Desmond, as tho fairy godmother, spoke her
few lines with distinction and charm. The
Synge play was a disappointment. The
players did not capture the spirit of the
piece, and gabbled their lines in a dialect
that never existed. The. rising of the sup-
posed, dead man from his bed was treated
with astounding calmness. Doris Fitton
produced both plays.
* * *
Possibly because it had nothing else readv
and didn’t want to' disband a very talented
co., the Firm on Saturday revived Rachel
Crother’s comedy, “Let Us Be Gay,” at
Sydney Cri. It is a clever, well-written
piece, and provides congenial employment
for Ethel Morrison, Harvey Adams, Camp-
bell Copelin and Iris Darbyshire, .but it
comes round again some years before its
turn. As in the case of the Crother
comedy that preceded it, it has a musical
turn ,as a curtain-raiser —on Saturday night
it was Marie Bremner in grand-opera flights.
* * *
“Badger’s Green.” by R. C. Sherriff, who
wrote “Journey’s End,” was staged by the
Sydney Players’ Club at St. James’s Hall.
It hinges on the devotion to cricket of an
English village; the women are unimportant.
The principal characters are a doctor, stub-
born and conservative, a fiery major, > Mr.
Twigg, bespectacled and obsequious, ; and
Butler, a speculative builder. Butler wants
to erect a swarm of bungalows, a sanitary
steam-laundry and other urban amenities on
the outskirts of the village, a project violently
opposed by the other characters. r Just
before a cricket match with a neighboring
village, Twigg, the side’s best slow bowler,,
cuts a finger. Doctor and major entreat
Butler to" play. Reluctantly he agrees,
stipulating that he must knock off early, as it
is imperative that he should go to London
that night in order to secure acceptance of
his building scheme. . The hour arrives for
his departure —a crucial one for the village.
A few runs are needed and Butler is the. last
man to bat. Pie is torn between business
and his love for the game. Pie goes out to
bat and bits up the runs. ' John Gould, who
also produced the play, was at home as the
doctor, and Edward Cavill gave a peppery
display as the major. Max Napier’s Twigg
was one of the best comedy studies seen on
the amateur stage this year. J. E. 0. Apple-
ton made a passable Butler and C. Cunning-
ton got laughs as a thick-headed publican.
* * *
The Tuttle Theatre Co., a brand-new Mel-
bourne organisation, ought to be grateful
to the film censors for making the screen
so babyish that if an idea above the mental
level of “Home Chat” came out of it
audiences would drop dead ' with heart
failure. Its first production, “The Fanatics,”
by Miles Malleson, was the frankest thing
the crowd which filled the Assembly Hall
last, week had listened ■to for years,
apparently. It was composed mainly of
whole slabs of Marie Stopes, with portions
of Judge Lindsey, the advocate of com-
panionate marriage, put in the mouths of
assorted puppets. If the playwright had
the wit and the theatrical agility of G. B.
Shaw, who propagandises after the same
method, his play would be more tolerable;
nevertheless, in places it was quite enter-
taining. The trouble about a propaganda
play, however, is that it is usually so solemn.
The fanatics are terribly solemn. One
of them explains with immense solemnity
that he was keeping himself pure for his
fiancee, but, on hearing that he would have
to go over the top in France and probably
get his head blown off, he had an affair with
a French girl. Another, a maidservant, over-
hears her employers talking about the new era
in sex relations, and goes off and has an
affair with a man. which ends, much to her
surprise, in a baby. Still another fanatic,
who has refused to allow the young man to
whom she is engaged to so much as kiss
her, finds him with a girl in a camisole
upon his knee. He solemnly explains that
the girl has been giving him experience
which will b.e invaluable to his fiancee when
he becomes her husband. She receives this
point of view without enthusiasm; never-
theless she solemnly sits down while every-
body solemnly discusses her case from every
angle. But the most solemn occasion is when a
girl who has listened to the discussion solemnly
refuses to marry the man she loves unless
they have a month’s trial run or endurance
test first on the Continent; and he as
solemnly allows himself to be converted.
And so, having discussed every possible topic
that is never mentioned in respectable draw-
ing-rooms, the play closes. Eve Dawnay
gave a brilliant exposition of a charming
lady who has indulged in numerous irregu-
larities and enjoyed them. She was a sharp
foil to Dulcie Leed. Edna Morcombe
played a light-o’-love with plenty of vivacity,
but Hal Percy’s talent foundered under the
weight of the tons of propaganda allotted
to the hero. Brett Randall was the vague
bachelor who is obliged to swallow the
idea of companionqte marriage. Walter
McColl, as the representative of the last
generation, acted as if somebody was put-
ting a penny in him to make him speak
his lines. Vera Bolger put so much truth
and sincerity into the maid who takes a
page out of Marie Stopes without reading
the whole volume that she brought the house
down. The co., which hopes to move shortly
into its own theatre, has made an interesting
start.
* * *
Haagen Holenbergh, the Danish pianist,
was the lion of a conversazione at Sydney
“SHADOW OF THE GLEN” AND "A KISS FOR CINDERELLA”
AT SYDNEY, SAVOY.
Left to right, top to bottom: Garry Byrne and Doris Fitton, in “The Glen”; Nelson
Beresford (Mr. Jennings), Therese Desmond (fairy godmother), Edward Howell
(the king), Venus (disarmed), Grace Hurt (Cinderella ), Hawdon Wilson (the
policeman)-all in “Cinderella.”
Arts Club. He played the Busoni arrange-
ment of Bach’s, Chaconne, the Saint-Saens
transcription of melodies from .“Alceste” and
a trio' of Chopin numbers, including the
C sharp minor-scherzo. Mr. Holenbergh’s
tone is rich and he has understanding. If
he can play Beethoven and Brahms as
cleverly as he manages Busoni’s Bach em-
broidery, a longer recital would be welcome,
and. it may also be suggested that there is
some very charming music by Danish com-
popers. which Sydney music-lovers should
appreciate.
Melbourne Comedy last week broke a pro-
longed silence with a season of two local
plays, performed by a prof amateur co.
Helton Daniell’s “In a Glass Darkly,” de-.
scribed as “an incident,” is a clever study,
placed in a dressing-room, of the psychology
of actors. The actors are represented as
nitwits whose only use for their art is the
gratification of their vanity. Mr. Daniell
ought to know. He is an actor, and a good
one. The contrast between art and the actor
would be more; effective if the playwright
in the play (George Faulkner) were not even
more of a .nitwit 1 than the actors. Good
stuff is written into the part of a producer,
.well presented by George Cockerill. Black-
and-white artist Ray Whiting is responsible
tfor “The -Man Who Did.” It concerns an
Australian cartoonist in London who has a
reputation, like Low, for caricaturing only
the Really Great, but who, unlike Low, will
immortalise the not-so-great if the considera-
tion is big enough. He also has a side-line
ifi the. sinful life, represented by Lillie and
Millie (Sadie and Nancy Scarlett). Heeventu-
ally falls in love with a nice girl, and is found
in her bedroom by papa. Lest the audience
should. be left in doubt as to whether Mr.
Whiting is on the side of the angels or not,
it is explained that, they were united by a
parson that afternoon. Regarded as a collee-
tion of smart aphorisms “The Man Who Did”
has points. Regarded as a play, it qualifies
its author for the Nobel Prige
ture. It was interpreted by a large and
mainly wooden cast, though the artist
James Watt was curiously like hie.
*** . .
“Bright Side Up” has been efficiently
washed, mangled, starched and ironed,
trimmed and added to, with the result that
the new version is being received nightly
at Melb. Palace by audiences which grow
ever more rapturous as the season wears
on. Its chief asset is Gus Bluett and its
main horror is the stock singing turn. An
actor comes on and begins to talk. Sud-
denly his expression changes. If yon are
a new playgoer you think he has a twings ot
the gout or has become aware that his braces
have fetched away. If you are an old play-
goer you know he is going to sing. Also
you know there is no' escape. Ihe aban-
doned wretch will have started before you
have got to the door. Ho sings while the
limelight man up above hoses him down
with red light for tragedy, purple for pas-
sion and amber light for mother-love. 1 hen
12 girls come out in tights or bare legs Ihe
interruption, you would think, should be
enough inducement to make any normal
person stop singing, but it doesn’t stop hint,.
The girls lie down and pretend to be swim-
ming. Then they sit down and wave their
legs in the air as if they had been run over by
a motor-car. But he isn’t out for life-
saving or first-aid. He is out to sing, feo
they turn themselves into snakes and centi-
pedes, but he ain’t a naturalist, not he! He
is a singer—the programme says so, and it
ought to know. The ladies pile themselves
into a pyramid of loveliness, suggestive of an
earthquake in a harem, but he completes his
fqll work, down to the last note. Then he
suddenly becomes aware of their existence,
kisses each in turn like a good, impartial
Turk, and goes off to wring the. limelight
out of his clothes in preparation for the
next. One of the worst defects of a very
dull election campaign is that none of the
party leaders has said what he intends to
do about the stock singing turn.
* * #
At Brisbane’s Albert Hall the Diggers’
Choir gave a concert under the direction of
Stefan de Polotynski, assisted by Lilian Cor-
rigan, harpiste ; Dulcie Peterson, contralto ;
Halina de Polotynski, soprano, and Dorothy
Stone, accompanist. The Choir’s contribu-
tions included Offenbach’s “Barcarolle,”
“Thou Hidden Love” and “Drink to Me
Only.” John Steel, tenor, sang “Ah, Si, Bien
Mio,” from “Trovatore,” and Mr. Polotynski
played Chopin.
# * *
“S.T.S.”: I am asked by the Adelaide
Repertory Theatre to enter a protest against
the scorn of “Cine Ma” (B. 25/11/’3l) for
Australians “engaged in exploiting the demand
for intellectual drama.... actors who have
failed on the professional stage.... callow
youths and maidens with an adolescent itch
to drink the nectar of applause,” and “get their
photos, in the papers.” This is all quite comi-
cally untrue of the Adelaide Rep.—which was,
by the way, the first of its kind in Australia.
It has always been completely amateur;
never gets photographed; absolutely refuses
even an enthusiastic curtain-call from its
600-odd subscribers. It just sticks to its job
of giving them .five long plays and about
15 short ones each year—Australian,
British, European, American. And it does
not “make a mess” of these. As a non-
playing member and a veteran dramatic
critic, I may be allowed to guarantee the
high standard of the acting.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Bad Girl” (Fox), at Sydney Plaza, is
misnamed. True, Sally Eilers, mannequin
and man-hater, picks up James Dunn, who
has no time for girls, and spends a night
with him, owing to one of, those storms
which have been responsible for so many
lapses of the sort since the movies started.
But after that she becomes a good wife, and
she would have been a perfect one with a
little more grey matter. It is the approach
of motherhood that upsets the home. She
wants the U.S.A. equivalent of a Kings
Physician when her time comes; faithful,
loving James has to work back late and
get knocked about in prize-rings to raise
the necessary cash; she can’t understand
what is going on, and he won’t tell her, the
fool! There is a painful scene in which he
blubbers all over the eminent surgeon’s table
at the thought that his pitiful earnings may
be insufficient for the fee, but for the most
part the show is a comedy with some bright
dialogue in the “Oh, yeah!” manner. The
writer has a gloomy notion that Mr. Dunn s
catchword “Okay” (with hand-flip) will
become as popular on the beaches as the
Garbo haircut this summer. The acting of all
the performers, from the small-part players
upwards, is impressive in its easy natural-
ism. They and the producer show up by
contrast the defects of an English comedy
on the same bill. It features stage conven-
tions which are as out-of-date, in most parts
of the world, as the daguerreotype. The
breathless overacting and limelight-hogging
of the star comedian. The obvious make-
up of all the characters. The luxury
restaurant, with three or four stiff super-
patrons and a footman who trike no notice
of the demented actions of the four prin-
cipals. The waggish methods of evading
detection, such as hiding behind a lady s
ostrich feathers. The technique of stage and
screen are different, and America is _ scor-
ing by England’s refusal to' recognise it.
* * *
The chief mystery about “The Haunted
Barn,” the third effort of Efftee Films, which
was released at Hoyt’s de Luxe, Melbourne,
last week, is why Mr. Cyril Watchorn, the
Customs officer who acts as deputy-censor
in Melbourne, forbade it to children between
the ages of six and 16. The only
corpse in “The Haunted Barn” is that of a
character who feigns death in order _to
escape from a difficult position, and the wind
that blew throughout the proceedings was
not more eerie than the sound of the Town
Hall ventilating plant. In fact, a real ghost
or a clutching hand would have been
greeted as a welcome intrusion by every
infant in the audience. For the rest, the
picture, which was produced. by. Gregan
McMahon, has some amusing situations, the
photography is up-to-date and the acting,
especially that of Phil Smith, is excellent.
John Maitland is the beautiful hero and
Donalda Warne is conventionally lovely,
though as a heroine she is the most uncon-
ventional character yet seen upon the screen,
since she turns out to be an escapee from
a mental home.
* * *
Those who waded through the 336,000
words of Theodore Dreiser’s “An American
Tragedy” can now see at Sydney Prince
Edward a talkie version by Paramount. The
effect is a bit like a three-second review of
a long life by a drowning man —a succes-
sion of short scenes, disconnected and
jerky. Dreiser’s indictment of society, the
grounds of which are not very clear even
in the novel, is entirely disregarded. Not a
scintilla of the sympathy the author sought
to foster for Clyde Griffiths, murderer of a
discarded sweetheart, can survive the
tabloidisation. But the selected scenes are
vividly portrayed and interest is well sus-
tained. The cast, headed by Phillips Holmes
as Griffiths, though made up of unknowns,
has been well chosen. Sylvia Sidney is
appealingly pathetic as the betrayed
Roberta and Frances Dee lends glamor to
the part of Sandra.
# * #
“These Charming People” (Paramount),
from Michael Arlen’s story, showing at Syd-
nev Regent, introduces the veteran English
actor Cyril Maude as Col. Crawford, M.P.,
a sponger on his prosperous son-in-law,
James Berridge, a serious-minded ship-
builder. Julia, James’s wife, is becoming
fed up with her husband, who is happier in
the dockyards than in his wife’s company.
She finds consolation in the arms of Geof-
frey Allen, her husband’s private secretary,
and when the inevitable bust-up occurs,
threatens to run away with him. Berridge
puts it up to the colonel that unless he
can persuade Julia to behave herself he
can pay his own debts in future. When
Geoffrey learns that Julia has handed back
her marriage settlement his affection declines
and Julia shudders when she learns that
Geoffrey is the son of her father’s butler.
Husband and wife are re-united and the
colonel still has somebody else’s money to
burn. Cyril Maude gives a lively character-
isation and is well supported by Godfrey
Tearle, Anthony Ireland and Nora Swin-
burne.
“Pagan Lady” (Columbia) opens strongly
and has a strong cast, but all are
tired before it ends. So is the audience.
Evelyn Brent is picked up in a Havana
pub by bootlegger Charles Bickford. They
live together in a boarding-house; but he is
absent when reformers Bill Farnum and
his nephew Conrad Nagel arrive for a mis-
sioners’ conference. Nagel is fascinated by
the lady. Stormbound, they spend a night
together in an island hut. Next day uncle
Farnum is shocked: Nagel announces that
he is abandoning his missionary career to
marry Evelyn. Evelyn having- declared that
they Love One Another, Bickford says “All
right, go to it,” or sounds to that effect.
It is then revealed that Evelyn promised to
marry Nagel only to get him out of Bick-
ford’s way unharmed. She has persuaded
Nagel to return to' his mission when Bickford
drags her off an outward train, wildly pro-
mising to marry her, to reform—or as an
alternative to join the police ! It’s at the
Sydney Capitol.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Unemployment and “Allotments”
Dear Bulletin, —.Correspondents repeat-
edly ask “Is there no alternative to the
devastating dole?” There is; —one and one
only, viz., a system of fair-sized allotments
near centres where casual work is obtain-
able, coupled with cheap and rapid transit
between the allotment colony and the mother
town.
To attempt to promote these men per-
manently from the labor market by settling
them in remote districts defeats. its own
end, because casual workers arc indispensable
to modern industry—either they drift back
to town in busy times (as so many group
settlers did) or else their place is taken
by others equally casual, so that when the
boom bursts the problem reproduces itself;
whereas an allotee is near enough to his
mother town to accept casual . work there
(thanks to his cheap season ticket) when
any is available and stay at home and till
his allotment (producing mainly for domestic
use) in .slack times. That is why I advocate
the British Small Holdings and Allotments
Act 1908. Small holdings are up to 50
acres and are full-time holdings; allot-
ments are 5 acres and are .strictly for casual
workers. (Of course, allotments are nearer
town.)
This essential distinction between small
holdings and allotments is rarely grasped in
Australia; until it is I fear that land settle-
ment schemes will continue to be white
elephants where destitute persons are con-
cerned. Experience shows that such schemes
are best managed municipally. Unemploy-
ables unfit for small holdings or allotments
need farm colonies with strict discipline. —
Yours truly, R. Y. R.
The Old Political Has-beens
Dear Bulletin, —Australia is a wonderful
country. It must be. to stand it. At the
last election the “floating vote” emphatically
tossed out all or most of the old gang, who
had given us an exhibition of how a country
should not be run. • Presumably this was
by way of giving them the k.o. for good
and a lesson on how much, they were con-
sidered incompetent. But apparently that
was of no consequence to the leaders of the
different movements, for they are coming
back at us with all the old hacks. After
the last rout we lived in. hopes that some-
thing and somebody new would spring out of
the different new movements; but we are
back where we started from.
The floating vote, of which I am part, does
not want to elect Scullin and Co. again.
We have seen them in action, and have had
enough. When Hardy blossomed we thought
we were at last “set.” That new movement
has developed to the magnificent extent of
handing us back the same old used goods
which we had carefully put out on the scrap-
heap.
The question is, What are we going to do
about it? There appears to be no way of
penetrating the hide of a politician.—Yours
all hot and bothered, F. A. Q.
Better Farm Management
Dear Bulletin,. —Between Jamestown and
Riverton (S.A.) there is some of the finest
wheat land in the world. Since the intro-
duction of super, in 1898 this tract has had
but one failure, in 1914. Yet farmers here
are no better off than those in most other
parts of the Commonwealth. It might be
urged that land prices have been too high.
If that were so the S.A. farmer who took
up country 20 to 25 years ago at £3 15s.
per acre should be much better off than the
man who later paid £8 privately. Yet such
is not generally the case. Prices for grain
have certainly been low for 12 months past;
but if the average for the last five years
be taken it will be found to be 4s. 7d. per
bushel Port Adelaide and something better
in Melbourne and Sydney. Over - a period
of 10 or 50 years the same average will be
found to obtain. If it is proved that our
troubles do not entirely arise from drought,
high prices for land or low prices for wheat,
what can be done for our farmers?
I was born on a farm west of Burra
(S.A.), saw the wretched conditions of
the early ’nineties, the turning point with
the introduction of super in the late ’nine-
ties, saw the average yield go from eight
to ten bushels in 1900 to an average of
21 bushels from 1916 to 1926, when I
sold out. The suggestion I offer is that
what is needed is better management. Many
farmers will resent the imputation of mis-
management : but how is it that, of two
farmers with equal opportunities, one
is in comfortable circumstances, the other
broke? Out of 11,000 farmers in S. Aus.
4000 are under the Farmers’ Relief and
similar Acts. Sometimes it is Mrs. Cocky
who uses up the working capital, in non-
essentials ; sometimes Dad blews it in ex-
pensive plant, which. he later treats with
scant respect; occasionally—not often —it
is the “ponies.” Much credit for the pro-
gress of wheat-growing in S.A. is due to the
Roseworthy College and breeders of wheat
like Marshall and Farrer. Now, after the .
farmer has been taught how to grow good
crops, is there any way to teach him to
make the best of the proceeds? Why not
select a given number of farmers .in a
locality, some successful and others failures,
put their accounts for the last five years or
so in the hands of a competent accountant
and await his report?—Yours, R. J. Fair-
child.
Readjustments
Dear Bulletin, —The working man will
have to readjust his ideas. But an even
bigger readjustment will have to take place
in the outlook of our young business men as
regards profits. They have learnt in. a bad
school, a school of continual prosperity.
Because demand exceeded supply, mush-
room firms have come into existence. They
have been able to trade with little or no
capital because with demand at its peak they
have been able to function without stocks,
and finessed so that their customers always
paid them before they had to meet payment
for the goods sold. Money was too easy
to make. Profits on the small transactions
were ridiculously high, far too high, to be
stable: but the period over which it was
possible to make unnatural profits extended
quite long enough to make some of the
younger school look on this spasmodic deal-
ing as normal.
Before starting as a broker I worked for
one of the old school. He gave me a free
leg. On one occasion I bought about £5O
worth of goods and by what I considered
quite clever work sold them to a casual buyer
within a week at a profit of over 200 per
cent. I got no pat on the back. He said:
“These transactions look nice, but they occur
only once. They do not build. I would
rather you had made a very much smaller
profit and brought me the same firm’s order
again next month and the month after.”. I
thought he was a bit mad. I do not think
so now. Solid businesses are built gradually,
except in very rare instances.
And those of the younger business genera-
tion who cannot readjust? Well they will
revert back to the employee class again. A
big percentage should never have left it, any-
way.—Yours, Beta.
The Dole and the Unions
Dear . Bulletin, —Now comes the possi-
bility in many N.S.W. centres of part-time
Christmas relief work. This “plum” may
be anything “from a day to four days a
week for a month” —certainly not longer
than a month for even the luckiest of us.
Some of us have been unable to obtain
work for the past two years, and some have
been out of work longer. We must., how-
ever, be financial members of our union or
make arrangements to become financial
members (Bellmore’s orders) before we are
eligible for the work. Now, if we work only
36 hours a week, with the limit a' month,
what is wrong with making our payments to
the union correspond, so that they will
receive only their just percentage from the
crucified multitude? —Yours faithfully, Sand
Plain.
Christ on the Road
Dear B., —By “Gad’s” reference to myself
(B. 18/11/’3l), Lam greatly moved; but I
do think he is too sore on my brother-clerics.
Forgone -thing, he does not seem to have heard
of the Travellers’ Tea at St. Paul’s Presby-
terian Church, Mackay, which has been car-
ried on for three months. The idea is my
friend tile Rev! R. Bardon’s, and I have
merely followed his example. There is no
doubt that ministers and priests have more
appeals for help than any other class. That
is what one would expect, and I regard it
as a compliment. It seems a recognition
that sympathy and charity (in the proper
sense of the word) are to be expected from
the representatives of the Church of Christ.
The economic problem cannot be solved
directly by the Church. I would not like
the responsibility of trying to solve it. It
is a matter for experts. But Christianity
should —and does —supply the motive and
the spirit for its solu-
tion. —Yours faithfully,
J. A. Hunter, St.
Andrew’s, Rockhampton.
India, Too?
Dear B., —Don’t you
think your article “Dis-
ruption;” (B. 18/11/’3l)
rather confounds your
Protection policy? Has
Britain treated Aus-
tralia so very badly dur-
ing the last decade that.
we should exclude her
from the benefits of the
Freetrade policy which
you advocate within
Australia? Why include
only the States of Aus-
tralia and not the
dominions and colonies
which go to make up
that Commonwealth of
Nations, the British
Empire? , If N.S.W.
should not be protected
from the other States of
Australia, why should it
be protected from other
parts of the Empire?—
Sincerely, James S.
Chisholm..
Build Up Markets!
Dear Bulletin, —As
a cocky let me suggest
a point I have never
seen raised in your
columns —that the logi-
cal sequence of increas-
ing primary production
is that we will ulti-
mately reach saturation
point in our chief mar-
ket, England. In regard
to butter, cheese, etc.,
we cannot hope to
secure all the trade ; yet
production is increasing
at such a rate that we
must lower our prices
to push competitors out
of an already over-sup-
plied market. Dried and
canned fruits are in the
same, category. Wheat
and wool will sooner or
later meet the same
fate. With an increas-
ing population, Aus-
tralia must expand her
secondary industries. It
is not possible for them
all to be absorbed on
the land because the
obvious limit of rural
production is the satura-
tion point of English
markets. There must
come a day when that
will be reached. < Where
will rural Australia be
then without her cities?
I am a regular con-
signor of fresh grapes to
Melbourne. The market
is nearly always satis-
factory for good stuff.
It would suit me better
if there were two
or more Melbournes
in Victoria, with a population of factory
hands, etc., drawing good wages.—lours,
WOOBINEN.
The Statute of Westminster
Dear Bulletin, —May I advance the
theory that when the Westminster Bill
reaches the statute book —which it has to
all intents and purposes done —the . Com-
monwealth will cease to exist ? It is my
belief that under the Statute of Westminster
the Motherland cedes her legal supremacy.
I hold that when she cedes it the Common-
wealth Constitution Act becomes null and
void —that the Motherland’s Acts have no
legally binding force the moment she re-
nounces her legal authority. We know she
can regain it by revoking the Statute ot
Westminster, but until she does so I am. ot
opinion that there is no legal force .behind
her Acts. The important bearing of this
upon the Westralian secession movement will
be obvious. —.Yours, etc., J. R. L. Brinkley.
Low-grade Wools
Dear Bulletin, —Most of our scouring
plants and woollen mills are working only
part time. But stacked in woolsheds all
over the country are bales of low-grade
wool, to say nothing of bags of locks and
pieces, which would hardly return freight
if sent to market. The wonderful wearing
qualities of the A.I.F. uniforms show what
woollen materials can stand up to. Why
can’t our mills turn some of our low-grade
wool intp working clothes to be worn by the
men who are toiling out o’ doors? We
don’t go by fashion’s dictates —we only want
the darn things to wear well and be pro-
perly put together with strong thread. Can’t
the millowners get together, evolve two stan-
dard materials —one for shirts, the other for
trousers —and turn them out to be used for
working clothes? —Yours, etc., Lucerne
Flea.
“Gad” and the Parsons
Dear Bulletin,—So far as the relief of
real or alleged want is concerned, the clergy
' have, for the most part, reached the limit
of their ability.. That is all. The average
cleric may receive anything from two to
20 appeals in a day, usually from complete
strangers to him. Any attempt on his part
to find corroboration of the stories told is
almost invariably useless, and he naturally
prefers to give what little he can within
the limits of his own parish, where he knows
the circumstances.
• “Gad” says rightly that you cannot, force
religion on men who do not want it. . I
have no doubt at all that neglect of religion
is a contributing cause to vagrancy. Cer-
tainly in 20 years’ experience I have never
seen a practical Christian reduced to desti-
tution.
We parsons find it necessary to be very
careful in giving recommendations for em-
ployment. If we send two or three rotters
to a prospective employer, the next appli-
cant, who may be a genuine worker, will
probably be turned down. Hence it is
quite impossible to recommend without
knowledge, and it is not easy for the parson
to acquire knowledge of a man who consis-
tently dodges him until he wants a job.
Let me end with a couple of experiences
of my own. In my last parish I fed one
wayfarer for the best part of a week. He
then robbed me and got six months. .On
coming out he returned with protestations
of repentance, and I bought him a ticket for
a place at which he said there was work
for him. It cost 30s. This he must have
sold or given away, for lie was hanging about
the town till his next conviction. In my
present parish I have put no less than six
men on to “do” a garden. All professed to
know something about it. Five were quite
useless, but expected to be paid “award
rates.” The last was satisfactory, being a
man from-the parish, whom I knew. —Yours,
W. F. H. N. E.
“Sir Philip Would Again Oblige”
Dear Bulletin, —So Mr. Willis, N.S.W.
Agent-General, is reported to have said,
when asked what would be likely to happen
if Mr. Lang asked for another batch of
appointments to the Upper House. Well,
nobody could accuse Sir Philip of not want-
ing to oblige in the past, anyway. He never
fails when it comes to a question of punc-
tilio. See what he writes to Mr. Lang on
March 26 last: “May I take this oppor-
tunity of thanking you in all sincerity for
the absolutely frank and courteous manner
in which you have approached and conducted
all our discussions.” And again see what he
says to the Hon. Alderman Donald Grant,
M.L.C.: “I hope you will have a higher
opinion of me after this and be friends.”
“Surely, Sir Philip,” Donald is not reported
to have replied; “but please remember you
may have to ‘oblige’ again.” “Three cheers
for Mr. Lang,” called our Governor at a
public function, some little time ago. Let
our Premier for once throw aside his dour
reserve, and, reciprocating the gubernatorial
urbanity and graciousness, call for “Three
cheers for Sir Philip Game.” Toujours la
politesse. —Yours, Countryman.
Free Education
Dear Bulletin, —One of the most pitiful
features of our schooling system is that much
is still based on. the hope that maybe silk
purses can be made from sows’ ears. It
can’t be done, and to keep on trying is
wrong and unfair to all concerned.
The whole situation is just one of the
farces possible only when men chase
that will-o’-the-wisp democracy. To quote
Aloysius Horn, “Man has no mandate from
the Almighty to suppress the law of the
survival of the fittest.” Efforts to improve
the race by means of spoon-fed secondary
schooling will defeat their own ends. Elimi-
nate competitive struggle for an attainment
and you rob the object of its highest worth
—and help to hasten the decline of the race.
Unpleasant deductions, but why not face
facts? —Yours, Basil Boggabri.
SOLITARY-TY; OR THE LOST LEADER.


33
Vv'
n
1/
Reduced Costs are re-
flected by a Reduced
Tariff—but Quality and
Service are maintained
at the same world-famous
"Australia" standard.
Single Room 10/6 per day
Double Room 20/- ,, ,,
Single Room with private bath and toilet, 17/6 per day;
Double Room with private bath and toilet, from 30/-
per day. Breakfast, 2/- and 3/6, and a la carte.
Luncheon and Dinner, a la carte. Minimum, 4/-.
Light Luncheon in the Winter Garden, 2/-.
MEW
Room
Only
RATES
Telegraphic Address:
"Aus+raotel, Sydney"
■HustraliaNoS
SYDNEY
A
- rm
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR
(GERMANY)
CONCESSIONS TO AUSTRALIAN
BUYERS.
As a special inducement to Australian Buyers deciding to visit
this world-famed centre of 10,000 exhibitors, the Trade Fair
Authorities are offering a substantial rebate on all travelling
expenses to Leipzig. It is worth your investigation.
SPRING TRADE FAIR, embracing SAMPLES FAIR (Ceramics, Textiles,
China, Glass, Toys), ENGINEERING and BUILDING FAIRS, Commence
March 6, 1932.
Visitors will not experience the slightest difficulty with the language, matters of freight,
duties and banking. The Authorities of the Fair are always at hand to help courteously
and efficiently in business negotiations.
Full details gladly given by
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
For Economical Buying—go to Leipzig!
ABORIGINALITIES
“Macti”: Jalag, who revels in dramatic
narrative, describes a go between an alli-
gator and a shark, “We go look round pearl-
shell, and drop anchor along Wappa Reef
[Torres Strait], We been catch turtle, and
start cut him up. We look, one alligator lie
start to come along from sandbank close to;
lie swim for boat. Then one shark, more
than one fathom-and-half long, he start swim
from ’nother way. They smell that turtle
meat. Both them fella they meet together
A WHOLE FAMILY IN DISTRESS.
‘Lady, can you spare a triflef It’s for me little orphan child and its widowed mother”
now. That shark he get wild, he bite tail
belong that alligator. Then that alligator
he slew him head and turn his body, and put
arms belong him across that shark. That
shark he try for slew round, but he little
bit slow and make mistake; that alligator he
make grab now and bite him straight on top
that place where fin belong him stop. My
word! I tink that alligator he savee too
much! That proper place for kill shark
suppose you want—you cut that fin and he
die quick. When alligator he bite him, that
shark he can’t do nothing—he just finish
altogether and drop right down all same
stone. We look by-’n-bye and see that dead
shark he lie down along shallow water in
lagoon.” •
* * * *
“Booraby”: It was a wet day and I
Wanted a pipe-light, the matches' in my
1 pocket being too damp to strike, when I met
.Tacky and his gin. “You gib it bacca mine
gib it match,” Jacky bargained. I agreed,
and, yabbering instructions to Maggie, Jacky
took off his hat and sat down on a log.
Maggie immediately began to search amongst
his piatted hair with her fingers, and presently
she fossicked out two matches, quite dry.
One was given to me, and Jacky pocketed
the promised tobacco in exchange. As I lit
my pipe he shuffled up with his own smoker
ready and a happy twinkle in liis dusky eyes.
“After you,” he said, holding both hands out
for the lighted match. .
* * * *
“Jacky Jacky”: The popular notion that
Binghi is a mug is apt to vanish quickly
when one is brought in contact with him. The
inhabitants of the islands in Torres Strait
enjoy a measure of home rule, appointing
their own councillors to deal with minor
matters of administration and justice.
Recently one of these gentlemen forgot him-
self so far as to give his wife a good
old-fashioned hammering with a yam-stick.
The lady threatened to take him to court,
so he thereupon constituted himself a court,
and, trying himself on a charge of Wife-
beating, acquitted the accused without a
stain on his character. His fellow-council-
lors demurred, and announced their inten-
tion of bringing him to trial before the
Full Court, so to speak. He thereupon
entered the ancient plea of autrefois acquit,
and, since the common law does not permit
an acquitted man to be tried again for the
same offence, came out an easy winner,
* * #■ ' *
“Worsted Spur”: In one of the Sydney
courts the other day, a Judge asked a
plaintiff injured by a rearing horse whether
a martingale would not have been effective
in keeping the nag horizontal, and was told
it was useless, as it is. If the martingale
was fastened to the ground, it would work
all right, but otherwise the keeping of a
rearer down by such a method must go into
the discard with the old superstition that a
rider can “lift” his mount over a
w T hich is tantamount to a man lifting himself
off the floor by the seat of his pants. As
to the confirmed rearer, there are two things
to be done. One is to carefully examine his
mouth to see that no painful conditions
exist there —a frequent cause of rearing with
a heavy-handed rider. The other is to let
him rear and pull him over backwards. It
is a dangerous business for the rider, but
one which all skilled horsebreakers are
accustomed to perform—l do not refer to the
THE TROMBONE?
CAP'N TRESIZE: “I hear your boy Bill ’ave joined- the brass band. What instrument
do ’e play?”
MAISTER TRESIDDER: “Doan’t zackly knaw proper name of un, Cap’n; but ’e do go
to-an’-forth, to-an’-forth!”
ordinary rule-of-thumb breaker, who shoves
through a rough batch of station youngsters
in record time at so much a head and
generally leaves them worse than he found
them. The biggest rogue, after he has had
one or two smashing falls in this fashion,
begins to think better of the trick. Occa-
sionally an old rogue will persist. The only
thing to do in that case is to sell him to
the nearest mug.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: An astonishing
example of the lengths to which
toothache will drive a man
came under my notice some
years ago. While shearing was
in progress at the Thompson
River station (some 60 miles
along the: south coast from Es-
perance, W.A.), one of the
shearers suddenly fell a victim.
Though suffering agony the
man was unwilling to travel
back to Esperance to have the
tooth extracted, as this would
have meant the loss of three
days’ shearing. Every avail-
able remedy was tried.“ Attempts
were made to soothe the tooth
with painkiller, brandy, hot
water, cold water and roasted
salt, all without the slightest
effect. A few well-wishers tried
to remove the tooth with a pair
of pliers, but it seemed to be as
solid as the Rock of Gibraltar.
At last the sufferer, driven
nearly mad, conceived and de-
cided to execute a desperate
plan. The hollow in the tooth
was Carefully cleaned and
swabbed dry with a piece of
lamb's wool. A few grains of
gunpowder taken from a rifle
cartridge were, next introduced
into it, and held tight with a
wad. Then an accomplice
jabbed a needle heated red-hot
into the centre. A tiny explo-
sion resulted, and it was found
that the offending molar had
been split neatly into three
pieces. These were easily re-
moved, and the man was able to
go on with his shearing rejoicing.
“GG6” : I decline to credit that yarn (B.
25/11/’3l) about the Winton (N.Q.) crows
flying backwards to keep the cold winter
westerlies out. of their eyes. In the first
place, the feat is impossible, as anyone with
an elementary grasp of dynamics will realise.
Furthermore, the Winton crows are far too
ingenious to essay such an absurd perform-
ance. What they do, as I have noted from
personal observation, is to feed down wind
all day and then walk back to their roosting
possies before sundown, helping themselves
along against the roaring blasts across the
open plains by hanging on to the grass with
their bills and so warping themselves for-
ward, step by step. I am afraid some of
those Winton coves have been pulling your
correspondent’s leg. From what I know of
them I wouldn’t put it past, the cows.
* * * *
“0, Coral”: Thursday Island’s recently-
installed electric-lighting scheme, which was
its way of commemorating the Faraday cen-
tenary, has" furnished Jimmy Susu, of the
Torres Strait islands, with some more ideas.
“My word! I been look ’long that wire
belong that light machine —he stop on top
all same clothes-line. He number one ting
for catch flying pokis [fox], that one. That
wire he got flying pokis all over, finish dead.
I dunno which way them men put medicine
along them wire, but I tink more better we
get some that kind wire for fix along our
island, so them flying pokis can’t spoil our
banana and fruit all same now. You tink
he sell that kind along store? Or might he
can get medicine belong that thing fhside
bottle, and rub him along wire. My word!
’Spose I got some that kind wire I show
them ’nother fella someting!”
* * * *
“Tsavo”: In the days when the Austra-
lian overland telegraph line was new it was
a common thing to find that lengths
had been cut out by abos. for point-
ing their light womera spears. Kenya
Colony, in East Africa, has been experien-
cing similar trouble following on the in-
stallation of a copper-wire from Nairobi
to Mombassa. Female society in those parts
is greatly addicted to bracelets and similar
gauds, after the fashion of its white sister-
hood in many lands, and the ultra-fashion-
able material for these decorations is copper.
As a result the people whose job it is to keep
the line in working order are at their wits’
end, for as fast as one section is repaired
another is raided. The authorities are
seriously considering the advisability of giv-
ing all the Kikuyu and other ladies in Kenya
a free issue of copper-wire on condition
that they leave the line alone.
* * * *
“Lond.”: Enter for the howler cham-
pionship this gem from London “Sporting
and Dramatic” (3/10/’81) : “Often the ex-
tinction of one pest merely makes another
one worse. When the Australians a few
years ago decided to rid themselves of the
kookaburra, or laughing jackass, an exceed-
ingly noisy and annoying bird, they forgot
that he was the world’s champion snake-
killer. With his disappearance came a
plague of snakes.”
MIKL AND HONEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let others crave the beaches
And bright lights of the town,
My choice is river reaches
Where piling mountains frown.
No lure have bathing beauties ;
Good-bye to all that now;
Give me “domestic duties”
Adjacent to a cow.
For me the open spaces
Where life is free and wide,
The old familiar places
With cowyards close beside,
Where, shy bush girls are Singing
While putting up the rails,
As hpme the cows come stringing.
Contented, to the bails. -
What music is as stirring,
Or jazz band half as gay,
As separators whirring
Just at the break of day?
What song is more appealing,
No matter who may sing,
Than sucking pigs a-squealing
And poddies bellowing?.
When cows have ceased their mooing,
And pigs and calves are fed,
Then we will go a-wooing
While old folks go to bed.
And kisses, sweet as honey,
Shall seal our lovers’ vows
To save up all oUr money
And buy more pigs and cows.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—Bl hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT
Apply jor full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
"QUALCAST” lawn mowers
d
Qualcast (Australia) Pty., Ltd..
West Pootscray, W. 12, Melbourne.
Model “H” MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SUITABLE FOB ALL LAWNS
GUAKANTEED FOB 3 YEABS
SPABE PABTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
Prices in Capital Cities and principal
Seaport Towns.
12in. 14in.
Each. Each.
Bronze bearings 50/- 52/-
Ball bearings 57/6 59/6
STOCKED BY ALL LEADING
HARDWARE STORES.
ď
Vj\>v
v>e
W 5
c
1
pTHE worlds
MOST PERFECT
PUMP
The “Kismet” Duplex Master
is the aristocrat of Pumps.
Because of its patent super-charged action, it delivers
twice the volume of air with half the effort. Strongly built to
give lasting service, it is an engineer’s job throughout. It makes
tyre inflation a pleasure, aid is unconditionally guaranteed.
IT’S THE PUMP YOU NEED. Price 84/-
KISMET
DUPLEX “MASTER”
FOOT PUMP
Two
s
in One
ś
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO„ LTD., Eyra Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, C.P.O. Box7l, Melbourne
“Mako”: “Bogaduck” (B. 18/11/’3l),
who had merely to replace a rooster after
his bees had tried their stings on the bird,
was more fortunate than a Maoriland apiar-
ist, who recently was before the _ Court
because his bees not only stung neighbors
but killed their horses. The neighbors
won the case, the magistrate holding that
though possibly bees could not be placed in
the category of dangerous animals, they
were sufficiently unsafe to make negligence
on the part of the owner an expensive item
for him.
* # * #
“C.Q.”: A woman in the Speck observed
a dead hen in her fowlyard, and being a
thrifty person, no doubt, easily convinced
herself that it had fallen and broken its
neck, so she proceeded to prepare it for the
pot. Thrusting her hand inside the body
she received a slight pain and hastily with-
drew. Thinking that she had merely pricked
her finger on a bone she thrust her hand in
EDUCATING THE CHILD.
MISS PUP: “Mummy, what’s that funny-looking dog?”
MUMMA AIREDALE: “My dear, that’s what they call a pointer.”
again and repeated her previous experience.
Further investigation disclosed a small live
snake. The fowl liad apparently swallowed
the reptile and received most of the venom
in the process, because the housewife suffered
no evil effects.
“Mulgo” : Has anyone ever knowm an abo.
to die of snakebite? He is nearly always
barefooted; in the wilder parts of the con-
tinent he is bare all over; and he spends
much of his time for-
aging through scrubs,
grass forests, swamps
and other favorite
reptile haunts. In
northern scrubs lie
meets the white-bellied
scrub-snake, which is
as black as himself on
the upper surface and
hard to see in the deep
shade; and in the
marshes the dull-black
swamp-snake is a fre-
quent lurker, just as
difficult to discover.
When one does fasten
on to him Binghi im-
mediately washes the
wound, by which
means he gets rid of
the surface venom,
and thus lessens the
risk of serious conse-
quences. If there is
no water handy, as
often happens when
the biter is a brown,
tiger or black snake,
lie gets his dog to lick
the wound. Next he
presses hard with his
thumbs around the
punctures till they
bleed no more. If pos-
sible, he has the
wound sucked. Some-
times, after washing
and applying a liga-
ture, an incision is
made and some liquid
bloodwood gum put in
it. Binghi doesn’t
always use a ligature,
but he likes to get
into running water.
Washing the bitten
part as quickly as pos-
sible he considers of the greatest importance,
and when he can press around the punctures
in a rippling stream he doesn’t worry.
* * * *
“Q.M.E.”: When a writer, of whatever
grade, goes out of his way to use the jargon
of some trade or profession of which he has
no knowledge at all, he invariably makes a
bloomer. A case in point was furnished by
a chronicler of a cricket match in Brisbane,
who wrote that if the Afrikander wicket-
keeper had not taken a fast ball “he would
have been pithed like an ox—right between
the eyes.” Apart from the fact that bullocks
take the place of oxen in Australia it may be
as well to point out that a bullock is “pithed,”
not between the eyes, but at the back of the
head where the spine joins up with the skull.
The pither, on his platform above the cattle
moving through the race, drops his heavy
iron on this spot with unerring accuracy,
severing the spinal cord. In many meat-
works. notably in those of America, the
beast is stunned with a sledge, but pithing
is the recognised method for the artist.
“Titre”: What the pear is to the Queens-
land pastoralist, the borer beetle is to the
sugargrower of that State. For years the
northern planters have poured out money
A MARRIED MAN HIMSELF.
BOSS: “My word, we must clean up the place proper, Jackie—the missus will be home
to-morrow.”
JACKIE (mistaking the boss’s anxiety): “Ah, you po[?]-o-or pfeller!”
like water in attempts to combat the pest.
So far the only method which has brought
any result has been to pay for the capture
of the beetle which is responsible for the
grub that does the damage. Payment is
made by the pound, and for years boys and
out-of-works have been able to make good
money during the beetle season. Encouraged
by the success of Cactoblastis in the battle
with the pear, the sugar men are now turn-
ing their attention to parasites which will
deal directly with the borer grub. Some
time ago 500 grubs, which had been para-
sitised by a fly named Micropthalma michi-
ganensis, were imported from America by
some Bundaberg planters. The few sur-
viving the journey died after landing, and
now it is proposed to import the fly itself.
The beetle, by the way, on which M.M. will
be expected too operate is Pseudohophylla
furfuracea, but canegrowers call him by a
much shorter and even more expressive name.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: One of the “Bagged Thir-
teen,” mentioned in recent issues, was nick-
named Sandy Myrtle. He died in Adel-
aide about 10 or 12 years ago. In the
interim he had developed into a giant of
20 stone, and had been stockman, gold-digger,
camel-driver, station manager, storekeeper
and publican. The chief operations of the
Thirteen oh the way over to Kimberley,
where they broke, were killing their own
meat and picking up bush horses, which
they traded here and there for supplies. But
it is said that most of the members after-
wards paid for what they took, “under stress
of circumstances,” when they made a rise on
the fields. They -were tough citizens, and
the long journey across wild and untracked
country, through the Territory to Kimberley
(W.A.), in the early 1880’s was a daring
venture.
* * # *
“Verri” : During the thrip invasion of the
countryside one of the things that struck
the horticulturist who wasn’t too infuriated
with the pest to notice their tastes _ was the
strong color sense displayed by the infinitesi-
mal creatures. Pink and white flowers were
ravaged in all directions, yellow were occa-
sionally visited, but red blossoms were left
untouched. As all fruit blossom is either
pink or white orchardists suffered calami-
tously. Scientists tell us one possible ending
for mankind is his being eaten out by some
minute insect. It is a destiny for which the
thrip seems eminently fitted, he bavin? already
demonstrated his ability to work havoc in
the grape-, tobacio-, fruit-, hop-, onion- and
grass-growing industries in sundry parts of
the globe.
* * * *
“Yarri” : In a lecture before the Koval Geo-
graphical Society of Queensland on pioneer
squatters, Firmin McKinnon, associate
editor of the “Courier,” referred to the name
Degilbo. It has been stated over and over
again that a surveyor, being asked by letter
to give the place a name, turned “obliged ’
back to front. The lecturer, tracing the
migration of stock into the Burnett country
in the early 1840’s, said that “W. H. Walsh
formed Degilbo long before any surveyor
had the opportunity of saying that it was
‘obliged’ spelt backwards.” Abo. names were
adopted in nearly all cases thereabouts, as
Ban Ban, Tavomeo, Taabinga, Burrandowan,
Gin Gin, Mundubbera, Barambah, Bun-
dooma, Boonbyjan and others. What seems
to be wrong with Degilbo, considered as a
Binglii moniker, is the spelling of the first
syllable. If it is genuine abo., what is
Binglii’s pronunciation and what’s its mean-
ing !
* * ■ * *
“Hamer”: There is nothing warlike
about the little soldier crab, except its
habit of marching , across mudbanks in mar-
shalled regiments; but I remember an occa-
sion when a few of them put a large crowd
•of humans to rout. I was partly respon-
sible. As small kids my brother and myself,
spending a holiday at Sans Souci, where the
little crustaceans swarm, had a great time
amongst them, collecting toy buckets and
handkerchiefs full, which spoil we placed
under the table when we went into lunch
in the hotel dining-room, which was
crowded. Those crabs somehow released
themselves, and they must have spread all
over the room before the first evidence of their
presence was manifested; they were looking
for places to hide, and, the floor being too
tough for burrowing, the long skirts of the
numerous women and the roomy trouser-
legs of the men (those were the days of
wide pants) offered the most convenient
havens. A shriek came from a lady and a
succession of oaths from a gent.; and
with the crash and clatter of spilled plates
and the thud of overturned chairs there
was a stampede for the doors, the women in
particular being anxious to find places where
they could investigate with a due regard to
modesty. Probably those who were untouched
were more alarmed than the others at the
sudden, inexplicable turmoil; the general im-
pression seemed to be that snakes had taken
possession of the place. The retreat from
Moscow was a calm, deliberate affair to the
homeward rush of the holidayers, still feeling
themselves and imagining they felt things
crawling over their legs. Carrying the load
of guilt we did, and the knowledge that
elders of our own family were amongst the
victims, my brother and myself were not
happy until we were safely home, with
nothing said connecting us with the catas-
trophe. But the blood-curdling threats we
heard, as the family sulky moved off, about
what was going to happen to the idiot who
freed those lurid crabs, if the idiot were found,
remained in our minds for weeks afterwards.
SAID JOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This world,” said Joe, “I tell you I regard
As much the same as chaps like you and
me
When we have hit the bottle over-hard
And got to suffer a recovery.
The ruddier and rortier the time
You’ve had, the longer cash and credit
held,
The stiffer will you find the upward climb,
And, knowing that, you dodge it till com-
pelled.
’Tis human nature, that. I oughter know,”
Said Joe.
“This world,” said Joe, “was spoiling for a
spree
When once the bitter years of war were
past.
A high old time it had, you must agree,
With few to trouble just how long ’twould
last.
We had our whack of it and something more,
With thumping values for our wheat and
wool,
And Governments all raising loans galore
And never dreaming that they’d have to
pull
Up sudden, as they did two years ago,”
Said Joe.
“This world,” said Joe, as in the fire he spat
And shredded twist his horny hands
between,
“Has had its years of plenty and of fat
And now it’s making trial of the lean.
There’s times I’ve cursed the tribe of Bung,
by gosh!
Who helped me on and put me off the
bend;
So statesmen blame the banks who lent them
splosh,
Now that the banks have no more splosh
to lend.
They’ll have to sober up, like we did,
though,”
Said Joe.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


HAND
PLAITED
KANGAROO
SKIN BELT
iih new
rind fastener
PRICE-
MmBMHBRM
. ill-Queen St. Brisbane ,
\ ■*
mm
’SSsfg>i
s Most Modern Hotel
Tl « Hotel Alexander
122-132 SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE (opp. Railway station)
200 Rooms 200 Baths
TARIFF PER PAY l
Room and Meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast •• •• f rom ,2 /6
Telephone: F 4141 (10 lines)
One of the Richardson Chain of Residential Hotels
m
«- 1
m
rote
ms.
V>*“«
\***«. *““V .'em*
f&j tui m
' ; ej (w m
m m
.
■
■UM M
» *J itu /at /Of /I
spur #i-u .«* tm m
|»j w m
i*u *o* )m Mr
MnMmtiM r «m «i
rtiw
JOUM
SMOKE-OH!
It’s now known as the Upper Host.
* *
“Placing’ a wallet on a counter, Mr. Blank, of
Macleay-street, turned his head, and a few moments
afterwards discovered it missing.”
Well, it’s a good thing he discovered it.
These adjustable heads aren’t easily come by.
¥ *
“James Blank, a waterside worker, took ofF his
coat to the man who insulted him, but was knocked
senseless.”— “A ge.”
Weakened by the unaccustomed exposure,
poor fellow!
* *
SELLING ’EM.
Hollywood talkiefies a few well-known
nursery rhymes:—
The Fugitive Lover (“Georgie, Porgie,
Puddin’ and Pie”). —See Ron Philbert, the
Playboy of Broadway, in his Greatest Role.
Debonair, Carefree Screen Don Juan, Idol
of Millions, among the Night Lights and
the Girls. Il'e Loves ’Em and Leaves ’Em.
That’s the Ron Philbert technique. S.A.,
sistern? And How!
The Fallen Man (“H'umpty Dumpty”).
—A Poignant Drama of a Strong Man’s
Descent from Top o’ the World to the
Gutter. See Horace Dreary, the Screen’s
SHE WAS THE STEWARD, TOO.
SOLICITOR: “D’ you mean to tell me you allowed your wife to beat you like that without
a protest?”
EX-JOCKEY: “I put in a protest, but she dismissed it.”
Master Tragedian, in his Most Agonising
Portrayal. lie will Tear your Heart Cords,
Failure, Outcast, Despised Among Men. Can
a Man Fall and Rise Again?
Her Lost Loves (“Little 80-Peep”).
A Sweet Romance of Gay Maidenhood, In-
trodUcing Fragrant, Fair-haired Clarion
Starch, the Greatest Discovery of the Year,
Winsome, Innocent, Flower-like Shepherdess
of the Hills. You will Cry with Her and
you will Laugh through the Tears. And,
Oh Boy, You Will Worship ITer!
Said the "Spider (“Little Miss Muffet”).—
A Message to All Mothers. It Casts a Re-
vealing Searchlight on the Pitfalls that Con-
front the Bachelor Girl. An Impassioned
Show-down, with Fairy Notliingon in the
Greatest Fight, of Her' Life pitted against
a Monster of Guile. Should the Modern
Girl be Chaperoned?
Tiie Lady Refuses (“Mary, Mary, Quite
Contrary”).—When She Says “No” She
Don’t Mean “Maybe.’’ Screen's Sauciest,
Sophisticated, Sex-alluring Scamp, Pansy
Barrel, as a Florist Shop Salesgirl leading
the Men a Dance, Pansy makes College
Roys see Red. But She Knows Where to
Stop.
The Love Nest (“The House that Jack
Built”). —Young Love Builds a Radiant,
Shimmering Castle in the Air. Poesy and then
Tragedy! Should a Hubby let his Girl-bride
Sell her Soul to Save the Home? Hitchard
Darien, the World’s Cleanest Hero, supplies
the answer in this Sensational, Soulful,
Shameful Story of Love’s Young Dream.
¥ *
BAULK THEM!
The Communists would snooker you,
So use your heads;
It’s up to you to take the cue
And pot the Beds!
H- *
“As far as women are concerned, alcohol is usually
a trap.”— Rev. Archer.
And nine times out of ten a gin.
¥ ¥
“A new egg-testing machine is on the market. It
tells at once whether doubtful eggs are good or bad.”
Nevertheless, most Australians will cling
to the time-honored method of testing theirs
on politicians.
* V
MORNING MAIL.
“Lately I have received many remarkable letters
—some anonymous, some signed with names and
addresses. The majority are from women, who want
their men killed or harmed. One letter was from
a well-known Sydney woman, who gave me details
of her husband’s habits and, offering me £lOO, she
wanted me to run him down in a car.” —James
Devine in exclusive “Sunday Sun” interview.
Plaritagenet Flats,
Darling Point.
Dear Mr. Devine, —I wonder if you would
do a girl-admirer a teeny-weeny favor? Of
course I would simply insist on recompens-
ing you generously for your trouble. Lat-
terly my press publicity people have gone
all woozy or something, and the result is I
have not been getting the attention which
is my right as a prominent Sydney society
beauty, I have heard your work simply
raved about, and I was wondering if you
would be an angel and kill two birds
(there, I’ve gone and made a joke
without meaning to) with one stone. I
mean to say, if you happen to have arranged
t 0 shoot, someone any evening this week—
except Thursday, when I have a meeting of
P et charity, and Tuesday, when I am
addressing the Girl Guides—l would be posi-
tn’ely thrilled to bits if you would do it out-
Sl de these flats. Any time between eight and,
? a y> eleven would suit. Then I was think-
in S I might rush out. all distracted and
womanly kind of, and Minister To The
Corpse, if you know what I mean—and if
,v°n could bring a few of your editor-friends
a i° n S» why so much the better.—Ever yours,
Muriel Muddle.
P.S. —Would pay 10s. and half the cost of
ammunition; and, of course, tram fares both
wa y S
P.P.S.—I don’t want you to bother to
arrange anything specially for me; only to
let me co-operate if you have definite plans
for this week.—M. M!
Parliament House,
Macquarie-street..
Jas. Devine, Esq., Maroubra.
Dear Sir,—l am taking the liberty of
enclosing a sealed package,’in which you will
find my name and
address, and those
of a gentleman
whom I would like,
both on personal
grounds and in the
interests of this
great and glorious
State of ours, to
have shot. He
should be an easy
mark, being tall
and burly, as he
sits gloating over
his lists of securi-
ties in his office in
the intervals of
com p o sing dia-
tribes against the
capitalistic sys-
tem. As regards
your fee, I am pre-
pared to leave it
to you to decide,
trusting to your
sense of patriotism
to fix it at a rea-
sonable figure. I
might add that, if
all goes well, I
shall move in the
Assembly for a
public funeral, in
which case you
can rely on being
allotted a place of
honor among the
mourners of one whom I shall describe as
“with all his faults a great and good man
reft untimely from our midst.” Believe me,
my dear Mr. Devine. —Yours faithfully (see
enclosure).
;> Ruu Emoh,
' Ivillara.
Sir, —Here’s the position and my commit-
tee’s offer-—take it or leave it. A resident
of this suburb has recently become an expert
economist. I expect you have them in
Maroubra, too, so you’ll uxiderstand our feel-
ings. Price levels, the Gold Standard, parity,
inflation, the . Douglas Credit Scheme, ratio
of production to consumption—such are the
subjects this pest springs on us in the train
when all we want is' to discuss Whiddon’s
lottery and the probable winner of the big
race on Saturday. A. D. Skyte is the name:
address The Raspberries, Killara. A good
time to get him, assuming you use your gun,
is when he is walking home about 6.15 p.m.
I don’t know if you go in for poison, but if
so could let you know his favorite pubs, or
could indicate a suitable spot from which
to bomb him when he is mowing his lawn—
that is, if you aren’t opposed to Sunday work.
Fee, £lOO cash, for clean, satisfactory job.
Hoping for an early and favorable reply.—
Yours truly, Horace Fed-Uppe. (Hon. Sec
North Shore Anti-Skyte League).
¥ *
NATURALLY.
“Mr. Charlton will not stand.”— 1 “S. M. Herald.”
They'd hoped to bring this fighter grand
Once more into the party pit,
But since he says he will not stand
He obviously cannot sit.
* *
“Mr. Bell was unable to identify his attacker,
who it is believed is a man with a grudge against
him.” — “Sun.”
On the other hand, the attacker may have
merely heard that the victim’s name was
Bell and decided to dong him.
* *
“Parisian women, having been deprived of their
natural color by make-up, have to be taught to
blush.”— “Argus.”
The procedure is to conceal the pupil
behind a tee while an elderly golfer is fooz-
ling his drive.
* #
AMPLE PROVISION.
Hard times like these make one think. For
my own part I have done my utmost to pro-
vide for those that come after me. This
very day I put a bloodhound in the front
garden and tacked a note on the gate saying
I was out, and wouldn’t.be back for a week.
ANNOUNCING ANOTHER NEW
FEATURE.
“In view of the profound interest taken by its
readers in Gangland Society, the ‘Moron’ has decided
to inaugurate a striking new feature, which will be
continued till Sydney gets more sense.”
Vice-Regnant.
Mr. Sneaker Bunkitt, King of Tank-lane,
accompanied by his A.D.C. or heeler, Jummo
Rafferty, and attended by Police-Constables
Jobson and McNab, left the Mug Two-up
School in a hurry on Saturday night. A
Government car was placed at the party’s
disposal; Inspector Clancy formally opened
Cell No. 6 half an hour later. Mr. Bunkitt
and his lieutenant will be given audience by
a prominent S.M. to-morrow morning.
Mrs. Molly Peroxide,- Underworld Queen,
was present at a Snow Girls’ Rally in Wool-
loomooloo on Thursday. Bottle-ohs are ex-
pectcd. to benefit by the ladies’ efforts. A
guard of honor in full uniform subsequently
JACKIE SEES TROUBLE BREWING.
“Missy married now all right.”
“Mine tinkit all wrong! She tellit me ‘Jackie, this one my
husband; this one ’im best man at my wedding.’”
escorted several of the fair celebrants to the
nearest police court, where an informal
reception was held.
Messrs. Chiller Doodle, Wop Cagliostro,
Gunman Blutwurst, Ikey Slabstein, and some
ladies from the Pinkeye Wineshop, Darling-
hurst, were present with a press retinue at
a performance of “On the Spot” on Saturday
night. As they fought their way into the
shilling seats, loyal friends recognised them,
and struck up the opening bars of “The Red
Flag.” The singers were ejected by the
management, and the entertainment pro-
ceeded. The distinguished visitors paid high
tributes to the educational value of the film,
which has been described by a leading blurb-
writer as “The Picture That Taught Capone
All He Knew.”
Mr. Sneaker Bunkitt, King of Tank-lane,
accompanied by Mrs. Molly Peroxide, Under-
world Queen, and guarded by a posse of
armed thugs, was present on Wednesday
PUTTING ’EM ALL ON.
“I dunno what that noo lodger o’ mine does
for a livin’, but ’e brings ’ome dozens o’
shirts.”
“Oh, ’e must be a bookmaker.”
evening at an enjoyable binge, organised by
the Surry Hills branch of the Escaped Con-
victs’ Association. If was quite an informal
gathering, no uniforms whatever and few
decorations, barring thick ears, being discern-
ible in the gay throng.
COLOR PROBLEM.
“Mr. Lang said that the revolution, free of
bloodshed, had been going on for seven months.”
Although at first ice thought it strange
That no one’s red arterial gore
IT as s'pilt to bring about the change
That lost us billets by the score,
It only seemed peculiar till
We looked at it in logic’s light.
How could we have red blood to spill
When Lang has long since bled us white?


n&-
■
BHHNI
l§|p&;
--
, ml
■;■ v :§|
111 l
iiiiii
SSSSSWSK
mm
v-ws
*
POINT
KiS
im
& l
m m .:. KS ■.
' <
lIIIII-
■Hr
m ■ 1
V::;<::|:.,. »<•'■: S;-
illik: li
MM
m
::yX\
mm
m.
KHggft
mm
yy.<s
m
m
NTRY
CORK TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Made in your Own Country at the Garden Factory—Raleigh Park
by W. D. & H. O. Wills (Aust.) Ltd.
V C C°
V^
f
C^i.
\$ e V
*«*>■• \»** *£
rf eV S» V°V e
*<«£ ‘
ry
«"V*
*V
* {W
Co**"' 1 U'fV^
\° „e<* rto \e" \> e
\\
\\e*
w V
\D°
<tN s *
-
VfV*
A\e-
BETTER
p/^CKED
-Country Life" always
reach you and
fragrant, ' n and ’ a n
3 guard their goodness.
V . l'e
And in Tins of 50, 100 and
150. Also 50s Round Air-tight
Tins.
ŝ


ADVERTISEMENT.
The Ideals of
UNITED AUSTRALIA
More Jobs for the Workers
The only policy that can save Australia and Australian industries is one of straight-out
honesty and loyalty to the traditions of Australia and the Empire. So long as oppressive,
Communistic principles of government continue, money will not be invested in Australia, new
factories will not be established, and unemployed cannot be absorbed. The United Australia Party
will restore confidence in Australia and throughout the world. Money will return, the wheels of
industry will revolve again, and prosperity will be regained.
Down with the Communists
The decent, loyal citizens, who comprise the overwhelming majority of Australians, can rely on
the United Australia Party to destroy the Red menace. The United Australia Party will rout out
Communists, stamp out disloyal and revolutionary teaching of young children, and give all loyal
citizens the protection which the Australian constitution promised.
Away with Inflation and Protect the People’s Money
The money in Australian banks belongs to the people who put their money in them. If the United
Australia Party is elected, it will pass legislation that will prevent, for all time, any possible inflation
of Australian currency. The Commonwealth Bank will be made impregnable against political
interference, and by this means the financial stability of Australia and the savings of the Austra-
lian people will be safeguarded for all time.
On with Primary Production
The strength of Australia to-day, as always, lies in the strength of Australia’s great primary
industries. So long as primary producers are hard-hit, they cannot employ labor or buy goods, and
thousands of city workers must be unemployed.
The United Australia Party will concentrate on restoring the prosperity of the country, as the
quickest means by which Australia can recover.
Renew World Confidence
The actions of Communist politicians have destroyed the credit of Australia. Already millions of
pounds have fled from the Commonwealth, millions have fled from New South Wales to other
States, and overseas manufacturers will not establish factories in Australia for fear of Communist
legislation.
With the United Australia Party in power, confidence will be restored here and abroad.
Work with all your might for the United Australia Party, which will restore Australia to her
former position as a great community of British people, and the envy of the world.
Vote for the
UNITED AUSTRALIA
CANDIDATES
For the Senate Vote COX, GREENE, HARDY
Authorised by M. H. ELLIS, 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.


THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
mmmm
Wm
m-
-0^
■ '■
6 D
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., SYDNEY
BURSARIES
JAMES MURPHY
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
tenable at either
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
providing all tuition fees (if chargeable) and £7O per annum
towards the cost of residence at St. John’s College.
OR
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
providing £4O per annum towards fees, residence, etc.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made
available under the mill of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their
sons to study Agricultural Science, and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the
University of Sydney or of entrance to Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than 15th January,
1982, in the case of Bursaries tenable at Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later than
15th February, 1932 in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further
particulars may be obtained from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WHAT WHEATBREEDERS HAVE
DONE.
In a very informative article on wheat-
breeding, contributed to the “Journal” of
the Vic. Department of Agriculture, G. S.
Gordon states that the introduction of
varieties from overseas has proved unsatis-
factory. English varieties, for example,
ripen too late and suffer severely in early
summer. The explanation is that the days
arc shorter in England than in Australia,
and “we can hope to find useful varieties
only in countries having a length of daylight
similar to our own.” It is possible in the
case of small plots to increase the -length of
daily illumination. At the Werribee re-
search farm there is ; a , small bird-proof
enclosure fitted with electric light; here are
introduced local and imported varieties
whose response to varying periods of illu-
mination is studied. The scientists (of
whom Mr. Gordon is one) have been able
under these conditions to hasten the develop-
ment of late-maturing types and grow as
many as three generations of plants in a
year!
Selection has given immeasurably better
results than the importation of overseas ■
varieties. In this method plants showing-
desirable variations which have occurred
spontaneously are isolated and bred from,
the progeny being tested against standard
varieties, Dort’s Imperial, Penny, Turvey
and Wannon are examples of selected wheats ;
so is the new Ranee 4H, which in ten tests
at Werribee, extending over six years, has-
outyielded Ranee (of which over half a
million, acres was sown in Victoria this
year) by 3.9 bushels per acre. Ranee 4H
seed can now be obtained by Vic. farmers
fi-om Werribee, though not on terms as
liberal as those offered by the Westralian
Agricultural Department in respect of the
wheat varieties grown on its experimental
farms—a bag of graded and tested seed in
exchange for a bag and a half of f.a.q,
wheat, with, in each case, delivery at siding.
This innovation, it may be mentioned in
passing, caught on immediately, and the
department has been obliged to announce
that applicants for seed will have to be
rationed.
But selection, important as it is, is not
so important as cross-breeding or hybridi-
sation. Ranee is the result of cross-breeding;
so are Free Gallipoli, Sepoy and Rajah (they
were all bred at Werribee), Nizam (a Lon-
gerenong College achievement) and Nabawa
(originally crossed, Mr. Gordon says, in
N. S. Wales, but finally selected in West-
ralia). “These six wheats,” Mr. Gordon
states, “with Federation (bred in N. S.
Wales by Farrer), Major and Currawa
(bred at Dookie by Pye)), and Penny (a
selection from Westralia), comprise the
wheats most extensively grown in Victoria
this year.” Werribee-brcd wheats were sown
on 2 per cent, of the Vic. area cropped _in
1925 ; on no less than 65 per cent, in 1931.
It is estimated that these new wheats Mill
outyield the displaced varieties by 2 bushels
an acre, which at 2s. a bushel gives a gain
of over £423,000 to the growers.
Hats off to our wheatbreeders! They
have made a great contribution to the
national wealth which the pack of politi-
cians have squandered, yet they are never
mentioned in newspapers which set up
Domain and Yarra-bank mob-orators as
heroes, and have been miserably paid.
A COMPARISON OF WHEAT PRICES.
“Tuart”: Mr. T. IL. Bath, a director of
the Westralian voluntary wheat pool, visited
Canada when it was thought that pooling
might be extended to American, Canadian
and Australian production, and has kept in
touch with the leaders of the Canadian
wlieatgrowers ever since. In the Perth
“Primary Producer” he gives an interesting
comparison of average prices realised for
Canadian and Westralian wheat during the
last five years :
CANADA. WESTRALIA.
Year. Per Bushel. Year. Per Bushel.
1926.. .. 4/6 1 1925-26.. 5/8|
1927.. .. 4/14 1926-27.. 4/llf
1928.. .. 3/3" I 1927-28.. 4/11
1929.. .. 4/94 I 1928-29.. 4/H
1930.. .. 1/94 I 1929-30.. 3/74
The Westralian prices are for wheat
grown in the “fourpenny belt” —that is,
where the freight rate is 4d. a bushel from
siding to port. Canadian freight rates are,
of course, lower than Westralian in respect
of wheat shipped to Europe; and the
Canadian yield per acre is much higher.
The average over a period of years is about
18 bushels an acre. The Australian average
is a little over 12 bushels; the Westralian a
little under 11.
TO RAISE LAMBING PERCENTAGES.
“Liss" : The percentage of lambs marked
in most flocks over a period of years is
rarely so large that it cannot be increased
if sufficient pains are taken, always pro-
vided that the rams used are sure “getters.”
It is advisable to shear the rams twice a
year, thus relieving them of the burden of
a heavy fleece, and rendering it much easier
to keep them clear of blowfly trouble. At
least a month should elapse between shear-
ing and joining with the ewes.- Before join-
ing, go through the rams and make sure
they are all sound, and carefully trim their
feet. If they have not been recently shorn
it is as well to take off the belly wool, crutch
and wig them.
If the country is burry or seedy, the ewes
should be crutched, or at least cleanea about
the crutch. This is a factor largely con-
tributing to a high percentage. Split the
maiden ewes up among as many mobs of
older ewes as may be necessary.
Where the paddocks are small 2 per cent,
of rams will probably be sufficient; if the
paddocks are big or the country rough, 3
per cent, will be needed. For my part, I
join 2 per cent, or so for the first month
and add the balance for the final fortnight,
making a lambing period of six weeks. A
number of the first-joined rams may be too
jaded at this time, and the fresh rams pick
up the ewes the jaded ones have missed.
When joining the rams, muster the ewes
to the yards and leave them there for the
night with the rams amongst them. If prac-
ticable, yard each mob for the night once a
week, and tail them out in the morning;
otherwise ewes may string away and leave the
rams camped in the shade near the yards.
If it is not possible to yard them, round them
up in the paddock in mid-afternoon—just
before they draw off camp—and tail them
across the paddock for a while, holding the
lead back with your dog.
It is fairly safe to assume that in most
flocks there is a percentage of ewes either
barren or shy breeders. These should be
culled out and sold. To find them the dry
ewes must be joined again after the general
lambing, again taking all the necessary steps
to ensure a good mating. Mark with a dis-
tinctive brand all the ewes that miss this
time and give them another chance; sell
those that miss again.
WOOL SALES ON THE ZONE SYSTEM.
“Valerin”: When the N.S.W. Graziers’
annual conference last April knocked out
the zone system of allotting wool for sale,
buyers, with the tacit support of brokers,
raised such a disturbance that a badly-
rattled president hastily convened an
executive meeting, which wangled it back.
This action" was unconstitutional and has
done a lot of harm. The zonal system is
unjust to western, central-west and north-
west graziers, who must shear early, but are
kept out of their much-needed cash for long
periods .to allow the buyers to pick over the
finer clips. It is a crude method, too,
because it defeats its object in making
locality and not type of wool the basis of
the plan. This gives graziers in the favored
“B” zone a distinct and an unfair, advan-
tage over the less safe “A” zone.
EXPORTING FAT LAMBS.
“Southdown”: Sales of M.L. fat lambs for
1931 in London have proved definitely that
owners who sold at Smithfield on a con-
signment basis netted more than those who
disposed of their stock to freezing works
and speculators. The same thing will pro-
bably apply for the ensuing season, and
. Australian farmers would be well advised
to consider selling abroad on their own
account. If they need to be carried on in
the meantime they can obtain funds from
the leading pastoral finance institutions,
which cater for the business and also super-
vise sales through their London offices.
At this end there is an average treatment
rate of l£d. per lb. for lamb and Id. per
lb. for mutton, which includes killing, freez-
ing, wrapping and placing f.o.b. steamer.
' The owner of the stock retains the skins and
the fat, which are sold to best advantage.
There are also handling charges of Is. 4d.
per ton and Is. 6d. per ton outward wharf-
age, besides incidentals such as bill of lad-
ing and cost of cables. Freight to London
is lid. per lb. for frozen lamb and Id. per
lb. for mutton, plus 23 per cent, exchange
on London; also insurance, 5 per cent.;
brokerage and commission, 2J per cent.; cost
of cartage and storage in London —the last
item is small unless the shipment is held
in store for an unusually long period.
Lamb weights preferred by London buyers
are under 361 b., with an average of about
361 b. In the case of mutton, the most suit-
able weights range from 451 b. to 481 b. for
wethers and 371 b. or 381 b. for ewes, up to
441 b. Sheep and lambs would have to go
some pounds above these weights, as they
lose a certain amount of condition from the
time they are trucked until killed. There is
also a loss in the process of freezing. This
means that the stock at time of trucking
would probably have to weigh 41b. or 51b.
more. Owners should pay particular atten-
tion to the weights, as carcases which are
too heavy sell to less advantage.
DEFENDING THE DRAFT.
“Trepex”: “Bill O’C.” (B. 18/11/’3l)
attacks my defence of the draft (28/10/’3l)
on seven points. Let’s examine them:—
(1) The draft is a concession to the
buyer.—l did not say so. I called it a
discount —quite a different matter.
(2) The buyer takes the draft as a dis-
count in weight. He also takes it as a
“very real accretion of quantity for which
he does not pay.”—Quite so; a discount,
but less than one per cent. —not a terrible
lot to bleat about for a cash transaction
with no other form of discount. According
to “Bill O’C.,” the buyer also gets a further
discount if the wool gains in weight before
it reaches the manufacturer. Such very
problematical gain in weight is only in
condition and not in actual wool fibre, which
is what concerns the man who has to trade
in it. But the weight for which the buyer
pays, and for which he is responsible to
his principal, necessarily becomes the basis
for the test of yield.
(3) It is a foolish survival of ancient
custom. —Maybe, but that was not one of
my arguments.
(4) No one knows whether wool will gain
or lose in weight, but the draft presupposes
that it will always lose.—The buyer would
rather that it did always lose; he would
then have a definite basis on which to make
his computations. He would no longer have
need of the draft. It is the uncertainty
which is puzzling.
(5) The buyer would have to pay more
if he did not pay cash. —Rubbish ! Wool
is sold at auction and at world’s parity,
competition forcing the buyer to his highest
limit. In these circumstances no effective
exaction of terms could be demanded.
(6) The draft is supposed to cover pos-
sible mistakes in weighing.—No argument
of mine!
(7) If the buyer is not allowed his draft
he will take it out in some other way.
That is said to be a sinister threat which
some nebulous protector of the grower’s
interests should look into.—lf the buyer is
deprived of his present and public discount
in the form of the draft, he would make
adjustments in his private basis of calcula-
tions. There is no threat about that; it is
simply a matter of commercial expediency.
Could the growers get a statute passed to
prohibit such a thing?
Better the known than the unknown devil.
He’s quite a mild reasonable devil after all.
SURFACE DRAINAGE.
“A. Gistaker”: Soil moisture evaporates
at the surface. How on earth this could
cause the formation of a hard pan eight or
twelve inches below the surface, goodness
and “Agrarian” only know. In endeavoring
to explain the cause of the crab-holes in
crabholey country, “Agrarian” (B. 11/11/’3l)
gets out of his depth. “Minerals rise
to the surface, and their nature is such
that a fermentation takes place, and the
ground swells and bursts.” I’d have to hear
the explosion before I’d believe it. Minerals
which have the power of fermenting are
interesting. “Agrarian” should isolate them
with the idea of manufacturing a mineral
wine for use in combating the mineral defi-
ciency of our pastures.
Many workers with a greater knowledge of
science than “Agrarian” have endeavored
to solve the crab-hole problem. The
generally accepted theory is that their for-
mation is due to bacterial action. “Agra-
rian” jumps from dolomite on to a white-
wash liquor (which might be milk). The
color is certainly not due to magnesia or
dolomite (which is a mixture of lime and
magnesia carbonates), because, although
these substances are white, they are alka-
line. For “Agrarian’s” edification, let me
add that magnesia produces hard water, and
hard water is noted for its crystal clearness.
THRIPS.
“S. Quire”: It is bad policy to carry all
your eggs in the one basket, as my next-
door neighbor admits now that he finds his
apple crop will not pay the interest on the
overdraft. From experience I know what
a fickle old girl Dame Nature is, so I
grinned when she sent the thrips to take 40
to 80 per cent, of my apple crop. I hatj a
fine setting of plums and cherries coming on.
My grin turned to a sickly sort of smile
when I found the pest starting to extract the
juice from the maturing plums and cherries.
I still had a nice crop of peas with the
pods just filling. This in an ordinary year
would carry me over, and also permit of a
friendly loan to my neighbor, if need.be. A
miracle would be required to bring even
the vestige of a smile to my countenance
to-day I have just discovered how quickly
thrips can suck the life out of peas
in the pod—turning the forward pods a
dirty white, drying them up and frizzling
those with the pod just formed into a useless
leathery pad.
Forty years ago my dad had an orchard
in Gippsland. It contained mixed fruit, but
for the most part it consisted of apples—
Irish Peach, Rennet, Stone Pippin and
Adams Permain, etc. We did not have any
thrips—at least, if we did, they were well-
behaved.
Personally, I think the profession of farm-
ing would be over-run were it not for the
pests —and the weather. Research is after
a fallowless wheat; here is another, a thrip-
less orchard! In the meantime, a strong
solution of common yellow soap sprayed on
the blossoms is good, kerosene emulsion a
little better; but I’m not game to suggest a
remedy.
DON'T GROW PEANUTS.
“Longo”: “Peanut-growing as a side-line
should have the earnest consideration of
farmers,” says “H.U.G.” (B. 11/11/’3l).
For the good of their bank balances and
peace of mind, let it be but the smallest of
side-lines. Sydney margarine cos. are the
biggest buyers of nuts from the Queensland
Peanut Board. In the silos at Kingaroy there
are stored something like . 2000 tons of nuts
(the capacity is 2800 tons, and they cost
£55,000), and growers were but recently
advised that there was nothing more coming
to them for the nuts they had supplied to
the pool in 1929, and on which they had been
advanced 2d. per lb. There is an embargo
on imports, but South Burnett alone could
produce in any season ten times the amount
consumed in the Commonwealth.
The board’s energies have -been directed
towards decreasing production. Its manager
wrote in this strain, to an association of
farmers at Atherton (N.Q.) : “Any increase
on last year’s acreage, no matter how small,
must spell disaster. The course to pursue
would appear to be to restrict areas.... The
position is extremely serious. ... We have
turned down requests for seed from intending
new growers.... Until the depression lifts,
or we are prepared to produce at prices
much below what we growl at now, no
expansion is possible.”
So why give “earnest consideration” to
the growing of peanuts?
GRAPE-FRUIT FOR EXPORT.
“W.S.”: An Australian abroad with a
liking for grape-fruit, I often wonder why
it isn’t grown extensively in the Common-
wealth for the local and British markets.
The grape-fruit we produce is delicious, but
there isn’t enough of it. In England it is
in universal use, and in the winter months
at that.
Grape-fruit can now be bought in London
as expressed juice in tins. I enclose a label;
the tin contains the juice of two fruits and
the retail price is 4|d. The juice is tinned
in Pittsburgh—just as if the fruit might- be
grown at Orange and put up at Newcastle.
Grape-fruit growing is a big industry in the
U.S.A.; it could be made a very profitable
one in Australia.
LURES FOR COJDLIN-MOTH.
“Curlew”: In the control of codlin-moth
interesting results have been obtained in
Victoria with lures. Fernpots holding half
a gallon are lacquered to make them water-
tight ; they are then filled within two inches
of the top with a mixture of one part of
crude molasses in 16 parts of water. This
requires renewing once a week in hot
weather; less often in cooler. From October
22, 1929, to December 13 the same year
eight lures made in this way were hung well
up in the trees on a Doncaster orchard, and
attracted and destroyed 448 moths, 75 per
cent, of them females capable of laying about
80 eggs each. From October 8, 1930. to
February 17. 1931, six lures attracted and
destroyed 850 moths, of which 60 per cent,
were females. Two pintpots are as effective
as the larger size and cheaper.
FEED WELL FOR MORE EGGS.
“Jack Point”; It’s not enough to give
food in abundance or just a quantity of file
right kind. Birds must have a complete
balanced ration. Either mix this yourself
to a standard formula as recommended by
your Stock Department, or buy a ready-
mixed mash of known quality; don’t buy
food because it is low in price. Birds will
only consume the maximum quantity of a
(Continued on page 26.)


1
mm
r
I
*
Tough, strong and
flexible
Its rugged leather 501 e.... its
stoutly made and neatly brogued
upper. . . .guarantee extra long
service with this Abbey Golf
Shoe. And, the special design
ensures complete muscle-free-
dom. There’s no strain because
the upper is shaped at the lacing
in a curve which follows the
arch of your foot.
Three Widths per Size.
Ensuring exact fit. . . .you can
choose narrow, medium or wide
in each full and half size.
ORDER BY POST: State width
as well as size, and ask also for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF .... . . 43/6
BLACK CALF . . . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 258
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A CUP-FORMING
MACHINE WITH STACKING
ATTACHMENT.
'T’HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 20990/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Public Notices.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from persons, etc., insuring with any
Insurance Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1927.
A LL persons, firms, companies and associ-
ations being owners, trustees ,or agents
for any goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District, and every other Fire District
in the State of New South Wales to which
the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1927 has been
applied, in respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
misioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1931.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st .January,
1932, subject to a penalty not exceeding £1
per day for every day of default.
Note : Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
25th November, 1931.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in inspect of risks against fire during
the year ending 31st December, 1931, within
the Sydney Fire District and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act WOO-
-1927 applies, less any part of such premiums
actually paid by way of reinsurance to any
other insurance companies contributing under
the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January, 1932,
subject to a penalty not exceeding Five
pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By Order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary,
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
25tli November, 1931. ____
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AN AUTOMATIC
STOCK COUNTER FOR CONTROLLING
PAPER-CUP-STACKING MECHANISM.
'T'HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
A No. 20850/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to' make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and 1 Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Asbestos
House, York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
233FSTEP ON IT OVER
2200
JIMES A YEAR*
ş
★ A recent survey shoved
that the average motorist
steps oi his Starter more
than 2200 times a year.
Tou’ve got to hare a good
battery to stand this strain
andarain. Extdes are built
to start your car in any
weathe',any climate, fora
long time. See the nearest
Exide dealer
HAVE you ever thought how much you use the
Starter on your car ? Just keep count for a week.
Then you’ll see why it’s vital that you have a
good battery—a battery that will give you ACTION.
That’s what Exides are built to do ... to give you
plenty of power. That’s why millions of motorists all
over the world say, with confidence, n When its an
Exide . . . you START." Buy from your local garage,
car dealer, or Exide Service Station.
Hxibt
The Long Life Battery
row <:ARS. R \DIO »„<( HOME LIGHTING
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—Exide Battery
Service (Q.), Ltd.; Sydney—Exide Battery Service
(Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd.); Melbourne—A. P.
Sutherland; Adelaide —Unbehaun and Johnstone,
Ltd.; Perth—M. J. Bateman, Ltd. ; Hobart—Medhurst
and Sons Pty., Ltd.
WHEN ITS AW...
good, palatable mash, and palatability gener-
ally goes with quality.
There are no hard-and-fast rules as to
how to feed. Find out which system produces
best results. If you have milk to spare,
give a moist ( not sloppy) mash feed in the
morning—just as much as they will clean up
immediately, mixed with the milk. This
will give them a good start-off and stimu-
late their appetite for the rest of the day.
Have the dry mash in hoppers always before
the birds, and see you have enough hopper
space—four or five birds per foot of feeding
space. Feeding a moist mash last thing
in the evening will sometimes yield good
results, as it ensures the bird going to roost
with a full crop.
The grain portion of the ration may be
varied, as also its application. Some feed
it first thing in the morning, mixed well
with litter, so that it keeps the hens work-
ing all day; others find a good grain feed
at night is w T orth while. Green feed at
midday, plenty of cool clean water, oyster-
shell and ordinary grit, of course, are
always necessary.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is the practice of sowing a cover crop with
lucerne recommended ? —7lOO.
Not advisable on good lucerne land. The
cereal robs the young lucerne plants of
moisture and plant food, and they become
stunted and weak. In wheat districts, how-
ever, a mixture such as lucerne and Wim-
mera rye grass is sometimes sown with the
last crop of wheat with satisfactory results.
On what soils should oats he groicn? —
7091.
The crop will do well on practically any
soil provided it is worked into good tilth
previous to planting and the rainfall is not
too low. It is often grown on new land
which has not been sweetened after clearing
of timber. Although yielding a better crop
on undrained soil than wheat and barley,
it responds well to drainage and .good cul-
tivation.
How to eradicate stinlcwort? —7108.
Where the land is heavily infested the
weeds should be destroyed by cultivating
with the disc before seeding, followed by
cropping, if possible. Top-dressing with super-
phosphate will also serve as a means of con-
trol, by improving the palatability of the
weed, and making it more readily eaten by
sheep. The hoe should be used on any plants
that escape the harrow or are not eaten by
the sheep.
(1) In what districts in N.B.W. is the
fruit-fly to he fotund? (2) Is it prevalent
in the Lecton area? (3) Is the Fijian Gov-
ernment justified in prohibiting imports of
fruit subject to the ravages of the fruit-fly?
■—7115.
(1) The Mediterranean ( Ceratitis capi-
tata) and Q’land fruit-fly ( Dacus forru-
gineus-tryoni) are found mainly in coastal
districts, but have been found as far west as
Dubbo and the Darling River, and as far
south as Albury. (2) There is no record
of the presence of this pest on the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area, but it had previously
been recorded there. (3) Yes.
My draught-horse when in work breathes
very heavily. (1) Is there any cure for a
broken-winded horse? (2) Any special fodder
likely to be helpful? (3) Best method of
treatment ? —7039.
(1) No. (2) A horse that is broken-
winded should be given a limited amount of
hay, free from dust. If he is given a fairly
liberal supply of oats the amount of hay
supplied can‘be reduced quite considerably.
(3) In order to alleviate the trouble as far
as possible, the horse should be kept in
regular but not fast or heavy work. His
bowels should be kept normal by adding 2oz.
Epsom salts to the drinking water every
alternate day.
(1) Method of ridding fowls of fowl tick?
(2) Is there any treatment which will
render poultry immune? (3) Has sulphate
of iron been successfully used for tick? —
6987.
(1) Care should be exercised that the
birds roost in the houses provided and not
in scattered places, which would make spray-
ing very difficult. The buildings should not
adjoin other structures. For eradication, it
is essential to spray kerosene emulsion with a
force pump to ensure penetration of spray
to all parts of the building, including roosts,
Walls and roof. Two or three sprayings at
intervals of a few days may be necessary in
cases of heavy infestation. Kerosene emul-
sion is made by dissolving soft soap in
one gallon of boiling water, and then adding
slowly a gallon of kerosene, stirring briskly
all the time and for a few minutes after-
wards. This stock solution is then added to
nine gallons of soft water, preferably
warmed. The mixture should be stirred occa-
sionally while using. (2) The birds become
immune from tick fever only after they
have recovered from an attack. The ticks,
unless destroyed, still feed upon a bird and
cause it to become emaciated. (3) No.
My Leghorn chickens when about three
weeks old lose the use of their legs and the
toes curl inwards as if cramped. They
recover and get on their feet again in about
a fortnight. Is the trouble caused by diet
or a parasite? They are protected against
ticks? —6919.
Apparently what is commonly known as
“chicken cramp.” It is difficult to trace the
cause, but the complaint is not serious. Care
should be taken that the brooder provides
ample room for the number of chicks and
that the floor is level.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin”: Grass seed, especially cork-
screw and barley, is causing heavy losses of
young sheep in N. S. Wales. As far as
it. is practicable the sheep in seed areas
should be disturbed as little as possible. If
they must be handled, the droving should
be done before sunrise when the grass is
damp. As soon as the seed falls it is a good
plan to run the badly-affected sheep through
a dip of water. But beware of using any
arsenical preparations; the losses will be
heavy from blood-poisoning.
“A. Watt”: The hole in the bag (B.
11/11/’3l) is not wholly to blame for the
apparent short weight. When a ton of
bran or pollard is purchased, a ton is not
delivered; the bags are weighed in. It is
an old-time custom; why this particular
trade i.s favored in this respect I do not
know. Respectable retailers allow for the
tare of the bag when weighing single bushels
and net weight has to be guaranteed in most
other trades.
“Disc Harrow”: If you use rope reins
for driving the plough horses, get a couple
of lengths of thick strap for passing through
the liames to the winkers. This is where
all the friction comes, and where ropes fray
through quickly. Provision pf the straps at
this point, will allow ropes to be used almost
indefinitely.
“J.W.W." : An innovation which a north-
ern Vic. farmer has adopted to save horses'
necks from chafing. When he stops his
pair for any length of time he drops a light
propstick under the pole in the same way
as propsticks are carried under the shafts
of a dray. This keeps the weight off their
necks. Il'e has never had a horse with a
Chafed neck, nor do the animals get tired
so. soon.
“Sheepo”: Independently of sheepyards
a couple of breaks in the paddocks, made
of fallen branches, are handy. Often an
odd sheep is missed at spraying- or crutch-
ing-time; it probably has blowfly trouble
and can, when noticed, be taken to the near-
by break and treated. If hand-shears are
not carried in a pouch on the saddle, see
that a pair is always left at the breaks, as
well as a supply of dip to treat any badly-
blown sheep.
“Marsh”: Now that dingo boards and
the scalp bonus are no more in Queensland
a word regarding effective baits. The most
successful I’ve seen used has been fat and
strychnine. _ Render down some suet and
add strychnine, and allow to set in a cool
place. Wear gloves on which some aniseed
has been sprayed, and put portion of the
poisoned fat on pieces of paper. Still wear-
ing the gloves, place the papers holding the
baits where the dingoes run.
“Mulyan” : If you have no cement to mend
a crack in a cement tank or sink, mix some
sifted ashes with melted fat and work up
to the consistency of stiff putty. Pressed
well in, this will stop any leak.
“Yarri”: When there is a surplus of
Oranges or lemons that cannot be readily
marketed, bury the fruit in sand. With
careful handling, it will keep for months
in all weathers. Some growers, who pit
fruit in this way, claim that the process
improves the quality of oranges.
“Dimon” : To make a cheap and effective
overflow dam build a wall with heavy logs,
letting the ends a couple of feet into the
bank on each side. Then lean a sufficient
number of 12ft. saplings against the wall,
on the upper side, to go across the creek,
spiking the top ends to the top of the
wall and sinking the bottom ends a foot in
the creek bed. The saplings break the force
of the water as it shoots over, and any
space left underneath soon silts up. A few
loads of heavy stone should be placed on
the lower side to prevent erosion by the
fall of the water.
“Jack Point”: It is best to keep ducks
away from water until they are nearly full-
grown. Given early access to the swimming-
pool, they develop feathers very quickly, but
this is done at the expense of bodily develop-
ment. Therefore, the longer you keep them
away from the water, the quicker will they
grow to maturity and be available either
as layers or for table or market. But don’t
construe this to mean that ducks can be
kept from exercising their swimming pro-
clivities permanently.
“Nozzle” : “Disc Harrow” (B. 21/10/’3l)
advocates protection for the eyes when
spraying with lime sulphur. But the time
spent in keeping the panes free of film
would be time wasted. If “D.H.” uses a
power pump he need only look now and again
at the glass on his pressure-gauge to prove
this assertion. There is no satisfactory
gadget for the job, but a man can always
avoid an eyeful (accidents barred) by work-
ing to the weather.
“Karaway”: To make a currycomb for
the plough-horses, cut a piece of fin. pine
the shape of a bat, and strips of galvanised-
iron, liin. wide and long enough to go
across the bat —about 4lin. With the snips
cut saw-teeth along one edge of each strip
of iron and punch small holes along the
other side. Then bend the pieces into right
angles, lengthwise in the centre, and tack
them on to the bat, about fin. apart. Another
comb can be made by tacking on four rows
of metal caps of bottles, keeping the
crimped edges upwards. One strong tack in
the centre of each cap is sufficient. A
handle can be nailed on to the back of
the w r ood, or a strap used to go over the
hand.
“Bill R.”: With an auger bore deeply
in several directions stumps that arc a
nuisance in the cultivation paddock. Fill
the holes with kerosene, and plug their
openings with damped clay. After a
week or so refill the holes with the liquid
and again plug them. Repeat the process
three or four times. Then set fires against
the stumps and they will burn away to their
furthermost roots.
“Zan”: Tell “Gradex” (B. 18/11/'3l)
that in N.Q. We have a more economical
way of beating the bean-fly than by plant-
ing small crops to catch them and then
destroying these crops. If the ground is
sprayed when the seed is planted, and
spray is again used on the early Waves, the
fly will not attack. The spray I prefer is
ammonia water from gasworks, packed in
petrol-tins. The great thing is to stop the
fly laying its eggs; once they are in the
leaf, I know nothing that will stop the grub.
“Nomad”: “Karaway” (B. 11/11/’3l)
has entirely the wrong idea as to red and
white cobs of maize being caused by plant
food or environment. It is just a matter
of heredity. Yellow- or red-grained maize
usually has a red cob; white maize a white
cob. In. a crop in which 75 per cent,
of the cobs are red, the selection of all red
cores for seed will not eliminate white cores
from the progeny; there will still be about
20 p.c. of white cores. Since maize is almost
entirely cross-fertilised, there are only three
chances out of four that the red cobs will be
fertilised by other red-cobbed plants. The
following year the percentage of white cores
will drop to about 17 from similar selection,
and the third year to about 15, and so on.


CLIVEDEN MANSIONS
EAST MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
RESIDENTIAL FLATS.
Furnished and Unfurnished.
Telephone: JllB4.
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Gua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
■W
CHRISTMAS GIFT
BEST QUALITY STAINLESS STEEL
407 W .INO. BAKER BEST STAINLESS STEEL, Highly Finished, Grained Xylonite,
Bevelled Edge Handle. Octagon Bolster. TABLE, 30/-; DESSERT, 27/6 per half dozen.
Post Free.
WrJNO.tJfKE
179 —STAIN LESS STEEL, Oval Xylonite Handle. Well Finished. TABLE KNIVES, 12/6
DESSERT, il/6 per half dozen. Post Free.
y.piNEvll|
ilH'lp
8
705—STAINLESS STEEL, Square Handle, Well Finished. TABLE KNIVES, 16/6
DESSERT, 14/6 per half dozen. Post Free.
POST FREE FOR CASH WITH ORDER.
W. JNO. BAKER, LIMITED, 3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Missing Friends.
DERRIN. —Will Hollo Perrin, formerly of
* Cliatswood, Sydney (brother of Charles
Thomas Perrin, late of Auckland), or any-
one knowing his whereabouts, kindly com-
municate immediately with F. J. NEWBERY,
Solicitor, Chancery Chambers, O’Connell
Street, Auckland, New Zealand.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay •
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tari*
and all particulars posted on application to
P THE MANAGER.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. ,
The service is entirely free. All you have to do as
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. _ .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Medical undergraduate desires work till March next,
preferably in country districts or Islands. —7082.
Journalist, Sydney, own typewriter, will type
MSS. for literary workers or do any copying. 7120.
Dairy bacteriologist and technologist, Vic., wants
position with butter and cheese factory group, or
city milk c 0.—7169.
Auctioneer, livestock and land salesman, Vic.,
seeks engagement. Fifteen years’ exp., N. Vic. and
W. Riverina. Refs. —7174.
Ship and engine blacksmith, N.S.W., metalliferous
and coalmining, oxy-acetylene, boiler, sugar mills
and Fiji Islands exp., wants work, anywhere. Refs.
—7152.
Copy of journal giving biographical details regard-
ing Saiht-Maude, author of “War, Wine and Women.”
—6921.
Whereabouts of Percy William Berry. Last heard
of at Fern-road, Ourimbah, via Gosford (N.S.W.).
—7166.
Words of poem containing the phrase “Pax Vobi-
scum, Lilian,” at the end of each stanza. —7182.
Information Sought.
(1) Is it possible to qualify as a marine
engineer and obtain a Board of Trade certi-
ficate for internalrcombustion engines onlyi
(2) Where in Sydney should 1 apply for
examination? (3) lam 35. Would it be
necessary for m<e to produce proof of appren-
ticeship, if I could pass the examinations in
practical work and theory? (4) Prospects
of employment on motor-vessels for one not
holding an engineer's ticket, but conversant
with motors? —6795.
(1) Yes. (2) Superintendent, Mercantile
Marine Office, York-street North, at which
office the regulations governing examination
of engineers can be obtained for Is. 6d. (3)
Proof of four years’ apprenticeship, together
with sea service in a qualifying capacity
must be produced. (4) Can’t say. Apply to
owners of motor-vessels.
(1) What is the fastest speed attained by
a train in N.S.W.? (2) On what stretch
of track was the record made? (3) How
does it compare ivith speed records in other
States? —6500. .
(1) and (2) In Jan., 1910, engine 929,
George Young driving, hauled the Melbourne
express from Campbellbown to Granville
in 16min., averaging 77 m.p.h. In June,
1897, Chief Commissioner Eddy, while
inspecting country lines, was suddenly taken
ill, and a special train was dispatched under
“clear line” conditions. It did 80 m.p.h.
between Waratah and Maitland, but, in spile
of the effort, Mr. Eddy did not reach Sydney
alive. Speeds to-day are limited to 60 m.p.h.
reached by the Caves express between Sydney
and Penrith, and the Southern expresses
between Albury and Junee. (3) The Sydney-
Melbourne express is authorised to run <0
m.p.h. between Melbourne and Albury, and
this speed is regularly reached at certain
stages of the journey.
(1) How did Britain gain Mauritius
from France? (2) Industries? (3) Popu-
lation? (4) Currency? (5) Where is fur-
ther information available? —6961.
(1) It was ceded by the Treaty of Pans
(1814). (2) Sugar, copra, poonac, aloe fibre
and rum are chief exports. (3) Estimated
at end of 1929, 415,543. (4) Bronze cents
silver pieces, Indian rupees (in which all
accounts are kept), Government notes and
Indian currency notes. (5) Colonial Office,
London.
(1) Who brought the prickly-pear to Aus-
tralia? (2) Who brought it to Queensland?
—6963.
(1) Some species of prickly-pear were in-
troduced (for cochineal growing) into Aus-
tralia by Governor Phillip in 1788; among
them were probably O. monacantha and pos-
sibly O. elatior and O. inermis. (2) Can’t
say. For some years merchants in a N.S.W.
country town sent supplies to all States.
Specimens of some kind of prickly-pear were
sent to Moreton Bay in 1824 by the then
Colonial Botanist, Charles .Fraser, “for the
use of settlement.”
(1) What is tire object of “Powellising ”
railway sleepers? (2) Formula of process?
(3) Cost per 100 sleepers?— 6s7s.
(1) To render timbers immune to dry rot
and enable them to resist attack by white
ants. (2) The timber is boiled in a solution
of molasses, the boiling point of the solution
being sliglitlv above that of water. The time
of boiling depends upon the thickness of the
timber, and varies from two to eight hours.
Arsenious oxide is sometimes added to the
molasses solution. Results of experience
have shown that whilst some timbers so
treated are immune to dry rot, others do not
appear to secure such immunity. All Powel-
lised timbers, however, in which arsenious
oxide has been used have been found to be
entirely immune to white-ant attack. (3)
Can’t say. It is 20 years since such work
was done in N.S.W. Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research could advise.
(1) What course of study is necessary for
the examinations of the Institute of See) e-
taries to qualify for the diploma of Fellow?
(2) Cost, time of study and where studies
could be pursued to qualify quickly? (3)
Is there likely to be a demand in the future
for qualified secretaries? —6936. .
(1) There are three recognised Secre-
tarial Institutes in Australia: the Char-
tered Institute of Secretaries (England),
the Australasian Institute of Secretaries and
the Institute of Incorporated Secretaries.
Each Institute has its own syllabus, but the
course of studv generally is that covered by
the accountancy examinations, plus secre-
tarial knowledge and duties and secretarial
practice (company formation and procedure,
reconstructions and liquidation, etc.). (2)
Cost of coaching, about £5O; two to tour
years. There are many reputable account-
ancy coaches in Sydney. (3) Can’t prophesy,
but joint-stock companies are steadily in-
creasing in number, and qualified secretaries
should be able to find opportunities and
rewards commensurate with their ability.
(1) Do artists use a view-finder similar to
that employed by photographers? (2) How
can I make one? —7023. .
(1) A reducing glass divided into a number
of squares by hairlines is used by some
landscape painters. (2) Take a piece of tin
or stiff board 9in. by 7in. Blacken the
material and cut an opening in it, Tin. by
sin. Punch holes at intervals of one inch
all round the frame a quarter of an inch
from the inside edge. Strong black thread
is passed through these to form inch squares.
This size is effective for studio use, and held
at arm’s length should “find” a life-size
figure. For landscape purposes a smaller
one can be made, with an aperture 4m. by
2in., or a few of the divisions of the large
frame may be used.
My son on matriculating wishes to take the
mechanical and electrical engineering course
at Sydney Uni. (1) Is there likely to be
any difficulty in obtaining the workshop
experience stipulated? (2) Where obtain-
able? (3) Prospects of getting a position
when the degree of B.E. is secured —with
private firms or a Government departmenti
(4) Usual commencing salary? —69sl.
(1) Unless the number of students in-
creases greatly, they should all be able to
obtain the six months’ practical experience
required. In 1930 and 1931 all were pro-
vided for. (2) With private firms and m
Government and semi-Government depart-
ments. (3) Up to the present graduates
have always been absorbed by Government
departments or private firms. Many of them
have first gone abroad for one or two years’
experience before settling- in Australia. Dur-
ing the present year, however, many engi-
neers have lost their jobs. (4) In normal
times, from £2OO to £250 per annum.
What is a yogi, and what is the doctrine
he follows? —6820.
A yogi is a Hindu religious ascetic. The
word yoga means union. A yogi is one
who practises yoga, with the object of unit-
ing his soul with the divine spirit. This
union when accomplished by the individual
soul is claimed to enhance its susceptibili-
ties and powers, and so the yogis claim a
far-reaching knowledge of the secrets of
nature and extensive sway over man and
natural phenomena. The most usual mani-
festation of this power is a state of ecstasy,
of the nature of self-hypnotism.
Is there any way of destroying couch grass
in a buffalo lawn? —6887.
The only reliable method is to dig out the
couch roots and replace with buffalo runners.
A broad-bladed screwdriver is very effective
for the job, since it will not damage the
buffalo roots and is easy to use.
What is the origin and meaning of
ordinary playing cards? —6765.
Origin is obscure; nearly every Oriental
country has been blamed for their invention.
Reaching Europe about the middle of the
fourteenth century, they were popular by the
fifteenth. Clubs are modified acorns ; spades,
leaves, although spade is Italian for
“sword,” another old card pip. Hearts and
diamonds are self-explanatory. Early court
or coat cards were king, chevalier and
knave. The queen replaced the chevalier
first in Italy, then in France. The total
number of cards (52), of court cards (12),
and of suits (4), is connected by some
theorists with the number of weeks, months
and seasons in the year.
Ilow to get rid of nut grass in pains or
garden plots? —6B97.
The plot should be dug over and sieved,
removing every shred of nut-grass root.
What is the distinguishing flag of a
commodore in the navy? —6Bo2.
He wears a broad pendant, not a flag. A
commodore of the first class, except a chief
of staff, wears a white broad pendant with
the red St. George’s Cross thereon. A com-
modore of the second class, except a chief ot
staff or captain of the fleet, wears a white
broad pendant with the red St. George’s
Cross, with a red ball in the upper canton
of the broad pendant next the staff. A chief
of staff or captain of the fleet has painted
on liis boat the flag of the commander-in-
chief or officer on whose staff lie is serving.
(1) Is the Darling River navigable for
craft as far as Bourke? (2) Is there a
regular passenger service or must special
arrangements be made? (3) Is there a good
road on the western side for cars, and any
provision for petrol, etc.? (4) Is that road
within sight of the river as far as Bourke?
(5) lloio would I find out the whereabouts
of Darling River captains who skippered
boats in the ’seventies? —6980.
(1) Only during a high river. (2) No
regular passenger service. (3) The main
road, Wentworth to Bourke, is on the east-
ern side between Wentworth and Menindie,
on the western side from Menindie to Wilcan-
nia and again on the eastern side from Wil-
cannia to Bourke. There is a road on the
western side all the way, but it is very rough
between Wentworth and Menindie and
between Wilcannia and Bourke, being
usable by cars only in dry weather. Petrol
is obtainable at Wentworth, Pooncarie,
Menindie, Wilcannia, Tilpa, Louth and
Bourke. (4) Itoad on each side of the
Darling touches the river at odd points, in-
cluding the towns referred to in (3), but
for practically the whole distance the river
is not within view of either road: (5)
Capt. Walter Brown, Mertin-street, Bourke
(N.S.W.), and Capt. Randall, assistant
lock-keeper, Lock 10. Wentworth (N.S.W.),
may be able to furnish particulars.
I am considering establishing a weekly
newspaper in a country town. (1) What
legal and other formalities must be complied
with and what ara the fees chargeable? (2)
What is the subscription to the Country
Press Association and what are the advan-
tages of membership?— 6924.
(1) The newspaper must be registered at
the Registrar-General’s Department, a set
of forms having to be filled in and sworn
before a police magistrate. Fees amount
to about 30s. The paper also should be
registered for transmission by post. A
statutory declaration lias to be supplied,
together with copies of the first three issues
and a fee of ss. (2) For a weekly paper in
a small town the subscription would be
£3 3s. per year. The association has obtained
many benefits and concessions for members,
and of 205 country newspapers in N.S.W.,
only one is not a member.
How to get rid of meat-ant nests around
houses? —6976.
Pour 2oz. of carbon bi-sulphide down each
hole with the aid of a funnel. The nests
should* then be covered over with a wet bag.
See that no flame comes near the carbon bi-
sulphide, as it is highly inflammable.
Could a graduate of a British uni. secure
admission ad eundem gradum to Sydney
Uni., and what are the conditions and fees?
—6986. ,
Such admissions are made at the discre-
tion of the Senate. Applicants must give to
the Registrar evidence of their degrees, and
of their good fame and character, and pay
a fee of £3.
(1) Is Esperanto of practical value? (2)
Can it be learned without the aid of a
teacher? (3) How long would it take to
learn? (4) Books on subject and price? —
6541. , .
(1) Yes; mainly for collecting stamps,
exchanging letters, information, etc. Uni-
versal Esperanto Association is represented
in 2000 towns in Europe to aid travellers.
(2) Yes, but a teacher or fellow-student is
helpful. (3) Three months to a year. (4)
Textbook, 25.; small dictionary, 2s. 3d.;
magazines, translations and original novels
(various) from Sydney Esperanto Society,
449 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(1) Can ambergris be obtained from whale
carcases? (2) Can it be stored in this
state? (3) For how long? (4) In what
manner? —6902.
(1) Yes. In the sperm whale only, and
on rare occasions. (2) Yes, after removal
from the whale. (3) Indefinitely. (4) The
material is very stable and can be stored in
any manner.
Brief Answers.
J.M.: Get in touch with O. T. Lem-
priere and Co., Macquarie-place; and Minerals, Ltd.,
264 Botany-road, Alexandria —both Sydney.. • •
A.U.H.: Write Deputy Director of Navigation, Cus-
toms House, Circular Quay, Sydney... .C.R.K.:
From Robert Harper and Co., 390 Flinders-lane,
Melbourne J.L.F.: No. It occurred in 1765-66.
. ...P.R.: Question too vague. It depends upon
what is manufactured... .N.F.J.: Write Matthews,
Thompson and Co., 74 King-street; Tillock and Co.,
549 Kent-street; W. C. Douglass, 2 Foveaux-street;
D. Mitchell and Co., 95 Forbes-street—all Sydney.
H.B.: The value of the book is £2 10s .G.G.:
Alfred Hill, Con. of Music, Sydney R.F.: Freshly
roasted magnesium oxide made into a paste with a
strong solution of magnesium chloride... .R.l •: (1)
Charlton attended the 1924 and 1928 Olympic Games.
(2) In 1924 he won the 1500-metre race from
Arne Borg and was third in the 800-metre race.
In 1928 he had to be content with seconds in the
1500- and 400-metre races N.J.G.: Write Louis
Burkard, 250 Pitt-street, Sydney W.W.: An invalid
pensioner may own a home to any value ; provided he
or she lives in it continuously, rate of pension is not
affected R.A.8.: A Buick from General Motors of
Canada is classed as a foreign car for registration
purposes...-N.A.W.: Papicr-niflche articles can bo
obtained from W. Andrade, 52 Swanston-street, Mel-
bourne U.M.: Chances pretty remote. Try the
leading shipping cos 11. W.: None... .R.C.T.:
“Discrimine Salus” means literally “By (or from)
struggle, safety’’.... G.E.J.: J. S. Macdonald,
Director, National Art Gallery of N.S.W., Sydney.
J.A.M.: The tins interfere with air and drainage,
and the iron is of no advantage chemically....
A.E.C.: In the circumstances stated the N.S.W.
Unemployment Relief Tax has been correctly assessed.
. ...J.M.*: Possibly a die-sinker’s experiment. If
gold it is worth no more than its value by weight.
. ...G.0.8.: (1) It is not compulsory on members
to elect their president out of the ranks of vice-
presidents. (2) You are entitled to a copy of the
balance-sheet and also of the articles of association.
M.O.L.: Can’t say definitely without knowing
the precise terms of the will. If Nellie and her
only child predeceased her mother whilst the latter
still remained a widow, it seems probable that the
bequest lapsed. If the £2OO became her property,
then at her death, she having made no will, it
would pass to her husband. .. .A. 55.: (1) The N.S.W.
Act makes the moratorium apply to all secured bank
overdrafts except “any fluctuating advance exceeding
£3OOO secured by a mortgage,” but a mortgagor
may move the Court to have it made applicable
even in such a case. (2) A mortgagee means, in
this Act, a “person” entitled to the benefit of the
security of any mortgage including an equitable
mortgage, and “person” as defined by the Interpre-
tation Act includes bodies politic or corporate as
well as individuals. (3) A “mortgagor” includes
any person who has guaranteed the payment of money
secured by a mortgage D.M.: Write Patents
Office, Commonwealth Bank Building, Martin-place,
Sydney K.T.: Olympic Games will be held at Los
Angeles next year and at Berlin in 1936 H.M.L.:
The word “ambergris” is derived from the French
“gris,” meaning grey, and the Arabic word amber,
thus signifying grey amber W.S.S.: There is no
obligation on the licensee of a N.S.W. hotel to see
that his house is provided with a name or sign apart
from his own name... .F.H.: From the Australian
Graves Services, Australia House Strand, London
F.A.H.: The days which are observed generally
throughout N.S.W. as public holidays are: New-
Year’s Day, Anniversary Day (Jan. 26), Good Friday,
Easter Monday, Anzac Day (April 25), King’s Birth-
day, Eight Hour Day (in County of Cumberland the
first Monday in October), Christmas Day and Boxing
Day. Bank holidays are not universally observed....
S.T.M.: The Legion is the organisation of the British
ex-service men....M.J.: Andrew Carnegie in 1901,
on retiring from business, received as his share of
U.S. Steel Corporation a sum equal to £100,000,000.
... .A.J.F.: A lad apprenticed to the trade of an
electrical mechanic cannot legally be required, by his
master, to perform work other than that to which his
indentures relate... .W.H.8.: The N.S.W. Moratorium
Act does not apply to such a case... .H.W.8.: The
N.S.W. Reduction of Rents Act provides that the
reduced rent shall be payable until the lessor lias
obtained from a Court of Petty Sessions an order
permitting him (or her) to charge rent at a higher
rate. The application to the Court is by way of
summons calling the lessee to show cause why an order
should not be granted R.D.: See “Violin Making
As It Was and Is,” by E. H. Allen (out of print),
and “Violin Making,” by W. H. Mayson, obtainable
from A. E. Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney
A.J.D.: (1) A printed form is obtainable from any
law stationer; but you would be wise to have it
drafted by a solicitor, as there are special require-
ments to be observed according to the country in
which your proposed attorney resides. (2) He could
take Australian money with him, but it would be
heavily depreciated by exchange on his arrival in
England S.H.: Not worth the trouble. The con-
trivance must meet the conditions of operation of
the Weights and Measures Department and the Fire
Underwriters’ Association and the provisions of the
Inflammable Liquids Act, while there are also council
or shire regulations that may enter into such a
transaction. It would cost you a lot more than to
buy a pump ready-made H.1.M.: Forward some
beetles, and state size of goldfish R.J.: You are
liable to pay 2s. per week, your keep being esti-
mated at £1 per week.... WAV.: Apply to the
Secretary, Railway Staff Board, Central Station,
Sydney. Very little chance of employment, as
there’s a long waiting list.,. .EAV.N.: Get a solicitor
to write to the owner stating that you will hold
her responsible for any damage caused through the
trees (Many others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G. M. Turnbull
Synopsis : Returning from sick leave,
Jim EunthCf,, Resident Magistrate of
Aikoroa, Fay a, delivers a letter to
the dipsomania . nl owner of Nataroa
Plantation, Chui . ie Durrant, on whom
Huntley suspet s Roger Calvert,
trader, is battening. It is from
Marian, Durr ad’s young daughter,
whom Huntley met on shipboard
and has fallen in love with. It
tells her father that, as he had always
put her off when she icrote of return-
ing from tt down south,” ichere she had
been brought up, she is paying him a
surprise visit. This notes plunges
Durrant, who had “gone no ‘ire,’’ into
despairing remorse. Bringi, i him to
the residency, Huntley grimly tights to
reclaim him for Marian’s sake.
Marian arrives from Baramatc, but
Huntley has Durrant sober, and she
docs not suspect his terrible weak-
ness. She too , stays at the residency,
the dilapidated house at Nataroa
having been burnt down, secretly, by
Huntley’s young assistant, Freddie
Chisholm. 'Huntley quells a native
uprising against the poll-tax. This he
knows, but cannot prove, was caused
by Calvert and Maragi the sorcerer.
Warned by Huntley to keep away
from Marian, who dislikes him, Cal-
vert boasts that everything she and
her father supposedly own, is his.
Durrant admits he owes Calvert much
money—how much he has no record.
Durrant, rehabilitated, takes Marian
to the new house at Nataroa. Hunt-
ley tries to reconcile himself when
she calmly accepts Freddie’s devotion.
CHAPTER XIX ( Continued ).
JIM HUNTLEY became very thoughtful.
His mind was off at a new angle. It
was strange that he had not properly
realised that his youthful assistant was that
rare bird among Papuan civil servants, the
fellow to whom pay-day is an event of no
particular significance. Huntley was con-
scious of a thrust of coldness at the heart;
conscious also of a curious comfort in the
knowledge that if Marian’s affections were
seriously engaged, her lover possessed the
means to provide her with something more
than board and lodging and near-silk stock-
ings for the rest of her days.
And, automatically, that cancelled out
Roger Calvert. Huntley gasped. It was
like a dash of cold water in the face. He
had not looked at it squarely before. He
had not been game to face the knowledge
that always Calvert had been at the back
of his thoughts. Calvert with his strangle-
hold on Marian’s father! Calvert, neither
white man nor brown man; neither fish,
flesh nor fowl; with that something in the
blood that is reflected in the heart no
matter by what means, what art, what craft,
it is erased, hidden, covered up! Mon-
strous thought! Beastly! Calvert and
Marian, Marian and Calvert —the damned
Kaffir!
But Chisholm’s preoccupation with the
girl, his endless delight in her, was not
permitted to interfere with the job of
running the Aikoroa Division. Huntley
saw to that. He made Chisholm respon-
sible for the maintenance of order among
the salt-water people. There was no trace
now along the coast of the effects of little
Boardman’s pusillanimity. If the people’s
views concerning the sanctity of the law
had undergone no real change, they had
regained, at least, their old wholesome
respect for Huntley. The restrictions he
imposed upon their liberty of action were,
they argued, utterly preposterous; his talent
for unearthing things wise men forget,
truly fiendish. His tongue was bitter, his
eye cold, his hand heavy. And, after the
fashion of all white men, he was indubit-
ably mad. Nevertheless, he was just—very
just—and a very “big fella Gavamani”
indeed.
Therefore they would open their ears to
the commands of Mis’ Tissom —who was
but the voice of Mis’ Huntley—and hear
his words. He also was mad, madder than
Mis’ Huntley himself, if that were possible.
Moreover, men said that in the fulness of
time he would take the Nataroa sinabada
to wife, paying dearly for her, too, they
shouldn’t wonder in pigs and armshells,
dogs, tobacco and tomahawks. Ai-ee! There
was no more fighting, no more twanging
bowstrings nor clashing spears; but always
there were women!
Huntley, for the most part, remained on
the station, clearing up arrears in the
office work, fighting long-distance duels with
various mandarins at headquarters, trying
the malefactors Chisholm brought in, and
keeping an ear cocked for the proverbial
little bird that, sooner or later, would cheep
a warning from the mountains. Fierce and
intractable the hillmen were; gibbering
assassins whose law was the law of the
club, to whom murder was a passion, a
social pastime, who slew for the sheer
love of slaying and had made of treachery
a fine art.
The back-country tribes were under
control in but a sketchy kind of way. Hunt-
ley regarded them as his particular respon-
sibility, and his alone.
One day, when Chisholm was absent from
the station on patrol, Huntley invited him-
self to lunch at Nataroa. A couple of
brawny, half-naked savages working in the
garden told him, with many grins, that
Mis’ Dullanti was out in the palm-groves
with the working gang. The rhythmic
whirring of a sewing machine directed
Huntley to the back verandah.
“Hello, darling!” Marian smiled at him,
her mouth full of pins. “I’m having a per-
fectly harrowing time running up dresses
for my new maid.”
Not by the flicker of an eyelash did
Huntley betray his surprise. The maid
was a Greek- statue in polished bronze; a
living, brown Psyche, lithe and slender and
graceful. And her dark, long-lashed eyes
met Huntley’s—eyes that could be bold,
compelling, but were now timorous and full
of meekness.
“Goo’-day, Taubada,” she gave greeting,
half shyly, half defiantly. She was looking
at the top button of Huntley’s drill coat.
Her bare toes wiggled, her bare breasts
rose and fell, her hands were clenched so
that the knuckles showed white.
“Good-day, Saroni.” The words caught
in Huntley’s throat.
Lying upon a rug on the floor was a
curry-colored morsel of humanity, beady of
eye, protuberant of stomach, who sucked a
thumb and made gooing noises.
“Isn’t he the dearest wee pet, Jim?”
Marian exclaimed, and stretched forth a
slim leg to gently tickle Calvert’s son with
the toe of her shoe. The infant gurgled
with joy.
For an instant Saroni’s look flashed
towards Huntley. Her tense muscles re-
laxed. There was mother-love in her soft
smile.
“Her name is Saroni, Jim. Don’t you
think it’s awfully pretty? And she is really
wonderfully capable and accomplished;
sews beautifully and cooks—you’d be
amazed! Of course she has been with
white people for years—at one of the mis-
sions, you know. Her marriage went wrong,
or something, from what I can make out.
I’m simply thrilled to bits at getting her.”
Huntley nodded and was silent. He was
utterly baffled.
“I’d love you to see her father, Jim. He’s
the weirdest thing! With the wickedest
face. My dear, Saroni’s daddy is a perfect
nightmare.”
Again Hurttley was conscious of Saroni’s
swiftly-averted sidewise glance; aware of the
way she was digging her bare toes into the
crevices in the split-palm floor.
“Talkative as ever, Jim!” Marian laughed
at Huntley’s quick, self-conscious flush.
“Really, darling, you do run on so!”
He laughed back at her, but there was
no mirth in it. He met Saroni’s eyes
directly. Their look held. Then the girl
moved her shoulders and turned to Marian.
She became innocently absorbed in the
fabric on the machine. Marian’s feet were
on the treadle. Deftly she turned the wheel.
“You’ll find some late magazines ’ and
papers and things on the verandah, Jim,”
she dismissed him. “Hold it this way,
Saroni. Really, you know, this seam is
deplorably crooked.” She looked up at
Huntley. Manfully he strove for nonchal-
ance. “Toddle along, precious. Can’t you
see that you are just the teeniest bit in
the way?”
And grimly, determinedly, Huntley said
nothing.
He went down the front steps, circled the
house and strode off in search of Durrant.
He was aware of a mounting anger—anger
at Calvert for his brazen impudence, anger
at Durrant for permitting it.
He found the old man in the copra-
shed jotting down the weights recorded by
a rusty steelyard. For a moment words were
inadequate for Huntley’s wrath. Then:
“What the hell is the splendid idea?”
His voice was ice. “What is Calvert’s
light-o’-love doing in your home, Durrant?”
CHAPTER XX.
Durrant started with visible embarrass-
ment. He seemed to find it difficult to
speak. Finally, he essayed to laugh, but his
confused look could not meet Huntley’s
direct one.
“Come, come, old chap!” he said with
forced jocularity. “Where’s your tolerance,
my dear fellow; your broadmindedness? Be
reasonable. We’re men of the world, you
and I, with, I hope, a proper sense of
fitness and proportion.”
“And decency?”
Durrant winced, but his shoulders moved
impatiently.
“One—two—tawenty-t’ree,” Corkscrew,
the boss-boy, called out.
Durrant snatched at the respite. “One—
two—twenty-three,” he repeated briskly.
He checked Corkscrew’s reading of the
weight. “Right! Let her go.”
Another bulging bag was swung on to
the steelyard. Durrant said abruptly: “And
decency, Jim.”
Huntley snorted. “Enjoy your little joke
as much as you will, Charlie,” he sneered.
“It’s all very humorous, no doubt.”
“Look here, Jim,” Durrant said warmly,
“why shouldn’t I give Saroni a job if she
wants it? Don’t you—or can’t you—•
understand that she has no sentimental
regard for Calvert?”
“Hasn’t she?”
“Of course not. It is not in her—nor in
any native. Even you will admit that when
she—er—joined Calvert’s establishment it
was a frank —er —moneyed transaction. She
had no personal feelings in the matter,
none at all, apart from material ones, that
is. It simply meant escape from the hard
struggle of her own world, a new environ-
ment and, according to native standards, a
measure of social safety.”
“I know the combo’s creed, Charlie,”
Huntley drily commented. “You needn’t
repeat the old bilge that every waster
spouts when he takes a native woman to
himself without benefit of clergy. You
can’t make a self-sacrificing hero out of a
God-damned combo, Charlie; but go
ahead.”
Durrant bit his lip, swallowed.
“You with your high and mighty self-
assurance, and your blasted cocksureness!”
he flared. “What the devil do you know
about it?” Instantly he calmed down.
“I’m sorry, Jim. I shouldn’t have said that.
What I am trying to explain is that Cal-
vert is doing the decent thing—doing it in
time. His action in ridding himself of
Saroni ought to appeal to your judgment as
well as to your sympathy. Let me explain.”
“Quite unnecessary, Charlie. I’ve heard
it all before—dozens of times.” Huntley
gave a grim laugh. “There’s a glamor of
romance about the beastly business—at first.
Everything goes splendidly—for a time.
Then your combo discovers that folk look
sideways at him, women look through him,
and his friends have pressing business else-
where when he invites them to have a drink.
Then he finds that he has a conscience. It
begins to trouble him. He hasn’t been fair
to the girl. He owes a duty to his own race.
He must sink his own inclinations out of
regard for the prestige of the white man.
The usual bunk, Charlie! Old stuff!
Actually, of course, the girl is becoming
tiresome to him; soon she’ll be repulsive.
And if she has given him a half-caste kid
she’s a damned incubus.” He stopped, eye-
ing Durrant coldly. “You are going to
tell me, I fancy, that Calvert is trying,
quietly and unostentatiously, to rid himself
of Saroni—that he is ‘throwing her away,’
as the natives have it.”
Durrant nodded. “You put it bluntly,
Jim.”
“The swine!” Huntley rasped. “He hasn’t
got it in him to be loyal to his own rotten
standards.”
Durrant bowed his head, his shoulders
drooped. He sighed. “Talk’s cheap, Jim,”
he muttered. “Calvert may be all you say
he is. I don’t know; but let that go.” A
twisted smile contorted his mouth. “On
the other hand, old chap, the idea that I
should join you in—er—casting a stone
seems to me to verge on the ludicrous.” He
looked directly at Huntley. “I need not
remind you that hitherto a delicate thought-
fulness for the laws of social order has not
been a characteristic of mine, son.”
Under the old man’s gentle rebuke, Hunt-
ley was silent for a moment.
“I’ve struck the wrong note, Charlie,” he
ruefully admitted. “But,” he emphatically
added, “there’s a fundamental difference
between you and the likes of Mr Roger
Calvert. It is silly to trace a parallel.” He
stared at Durrant with a slightly speculative
look in his eyes. “Tell me, Charlie—has
Calvert brought any pressure to bear to
induce you to take Saroni off his hands?”
“No, decidedly not. He merely made a
suggestion that I agreed to.”
“Does Saroni know that she is being-
passed out?”
“Of course—er —that is” Durrant
wavered. “I’m sui’e I don’t know, Jim.
I’m not sure that I care greatly.”
“It’s a safe bet that she doesn’t,” Huntley
commented. “And Marian, Charlie? Don’t
you think Marian would be shocked and
disgusted if she knew what we know?”
“I—l really, Jim, there’s no reason in
the world' why my daughter should be”
“You haven’t looked at it fairly, have
you, Charlie? Do you expect me to be-
lieve, for a moment, that you felt no indig-
nation when Calvert put this—this proposal
to you?”
He looked at Durrant with strange in-
tentness. Durrant frowned and a slow flush
crept into his cheeks.
“To me, Charlie—and to you> old friend
—it’s a damned outrage!”
Unconsciously Huntley had raised his
voice. He was aware that Durrant was
signalling with his eyes, that the old man’s
mouth was slightly agape. There was a
cough. A voice said:
“Kaikai is ready, Taubada. Sinabada
sent me' for tell you.”
Huntley wheeled, staring.
“Very well, Saroni,” Durrant replied. “We
are coming now.”
The girl hesitated for a moment. She
glanced from Durrant to Huntley and. there
was an odd look—half defiant, half haunted
—in her deep, sloe-black eyes. Methodi-
cally, unhurriedly, Durrant’s “boys” were
stacking the bagged copra in ordered tiers.
Saroni tossed her head, and swung back
to the house. Her nose was in the air,
her slim hips swayed. To Huntley,, follow-
ing her sombrely with his eyes, it seemed
that there was studied insolence, defiance,
in her swagger.
Abruptly he said: “She speaks good Eng-
lish.” It was a statement of fact rather
than a question. “Do you think she over-
heard me, Charlie?”
Durrant gave an impatient grunt. “What
if she did, Jim? Take it from me, my dear
boy, Saroni is wise in the way of her kind.
If she has any particular feelings for Cal-
vert, they are not of an—er —emotional
nature. I know niggers, son.”
Huntley was thoughtful. “Think so?” he
gently queried. “Does any white man ‘know
niggers’? We all think we do! But,”
he went on with explosive emphasis, “I
know Calvert; and for sheer, damned effron-
tery, I hand the palm to him!”'
Perturbed though he was, Huntley cloaked
his anxiety with a smile when he went back
to Marian. Saroni was at the sewing-
machine, bending over her work, and guid-
ing the fabric with quick, practised hands.
She looked up quickly as Huntley paused
by Marian’s side, and a swift rush of blood
stained to a darker tinge her gold-brown
neck and features. Then, instantly, her face
was stubbornly impassive; the flame that
had burned in the blackness of her eyes
was gone.
Huntley was lost in meditation. What
had he glimpsed in that split second when
the imperturbable mask of native restraint
had dropped from Saroni’s face? Resent-
ment? Suspicion? Indifference? Was she,
as Durrant rather unctuously asserted, in-
capable of experiencing any emotion that
a white man could identify as a white man’s
trait? Could Roger Calvert owe her any-
thing if she herself was unaware that there
was a debt?
“Lunch is on the table, Jim,” Marian’s
cool voice broke across his troubled
thoughts. “I shan’t be a second, old thing.
Carefully, Saroni. You’ll ruin show if
you don’t keep that seam straight.”
As Huntley passed on, Saroni lifted her
eyes. Huntley’s brows were furrowed. He
had it now—that look. It was fear! Fear
—intense, suppressed. So she had overheard
his argument with Charlie Durrant —over-
heard, comprehended, and was afraid! He
shook his head as if dismissing unwelcome
thoughts. Saroni was a native, a daughter
of the jungle, a Stone Age woman —spirit-
ually immature, emotionally undeveloped,
morally unborn. She was indifferent to any
social law other than native usage, that is
as harsh to women as it is kind to men;
she was ignorant of any love other than
gusts of primitive lust, mere sensuality that
bums out as quickly as it is kindled. So
Charlie Durrant appraised her and her kind.
Perhaps he was right. Indubitably, he
ought to know.
But Huntley was more disturbed than he
cared to confess when he joined Durrant
in the dining-room. He was wondering
why Calvert had given Saroni her marching
orders, why Saroni had not been told that
her reign had ended.
There was a greyness on the face of the
sea—a waste of greyness that stretched to
a blurred horizon save where a smear of
dirty white marked the reef. Swathes of
grey cloud dragged across the sky ; swirls
of grey mist concealed the hills. The sun
was a blood-red disc, livid, malevolent; the
air was clammily still, and far to seaward
a blue-black cloud bank rose, extended and
drew nearer.
Looking back—afterwards —Huntley liked
to think of Marian Durrant as she had
been that afternoon at Nataroa. So slender
and exquisite she was, like % a boy in her
jumper and trim skirt. She had indulged
her flair for decoration to her heart’s con-
tent, and dutifully Huntley admired her
taste as displayed in her cushions, her cur-
tains, her floor coverings, her china rails,
her oriental brass and the few prints he had
not seen before, but wdrich instinctively he
knew were rare. She had achieved an effect
of daintiness, a rare blend of tone and
color, accompanied by unquestionable taste.
His compliments brought a warm light to
her eyes, a mischievous twinkle. She
squeezed his arm when, haltingly, awk-
wardly, he told her that she sparkled among
it all as a rare jewel glows in an appro-
priate setting.
She told him he was a prehistoric old
humbug, but she loved him just the same.
Looking' back—afterwards—he liked to
remember her sitting on the arm of her
father’s chair, rumpling his thin hair, keep-
ing up an incessant barrage of inconse-
quential chatter. She was altogether a
child—that afternoon —with the carefree
outlook, the exuberant gaiety, the fresh,
frank eagerness of a child.
When next he saw her, Maid Marian,
child of the high gods, had become a
woman.
Overhead the sky was inky-black; forked
darts of blue lightning sizzled through the
clouds like the tongues of hissing serpents.
The heat, was moist, of an intolerable
oppressiveness, and there was a queer, tense
feeling in the air. Gulls skimmed over the
surface of the sea, raising their mournful
cry as if in dread of what was to come.
There was. a menacing rumble of distant


f I
FIJI
Special Excursions by Palatial Liners to Suva, Fiji
—23 days’ tour. No exchange.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN, £35.
Return accommodation arranged.
GOLF, TENNIS, BOWLS.
Sailings from Sydney:
R.M.S. “NIAGARA” 10th December
R.M.M.S. “AORANGI” 7th January
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS:
First-class Return, £75; Second-class, £55.
CHRISTMAS EXCURSION TO RAROTONGA.
No Exchange.
RETURN FARES: First-class, £45; Second-class, £34.
By R.M.S. “MONOWAI,” December 24.
For further particulars apply—
UNION S. S. CO. LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Tel.: 87671. Tel.: Central 8393.
A movie, seen from
behind the camera at
Hollywood.
m
m
in
m
mmm
mmm
mmm
m.
iM
■yZ'&i
11
mm
£§lllll
|gfi
llili®
«
m
ACROSS THE PACIFIC
TO PICCADILLY
via AMERICA
THE short route to England,
strewn with captivating spots
whose names have so often stirred
the urge to go! Beautiful New
Zealand . . . Fiji, the fantastic
...idyllic Samoa and bewitching
Hawaii! Then, from San Fran-
cisco to Yosemite . . . Hollywood
to the Rockies . . . Chicago to
Niagara . . . from roaring city to
scenic marvel across the full
breadth of fascinating America to
your liner at New York.
Cool, luxurious, airy, pleasure-
laden, your Matson crossing is re-
plete with comfort, sparkling with
varied diversions. Movies... deck
sports . . . swimming plunge ...
radio newspaper... orchestra ...
famously good meals and superb
service.
One ticket, provides your trans-
portation for the entire trip to
England. Let us send you an
illustrated booklet and full par-
ticulars.
Write to Department Al.
Washington Monument at
Washington, D.C., marble ob-
elisk,sss feet high-memorial
to George Washington.
American cowboys do not
fight bulls —they ride ’em I
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Telephone: B 7981-3
• • • •
thunder; the sky flamed and then went
black, and a few raindrops—large, warm—
splashed on Huntley’s upturned face.
He was hunting through Aikoroa village.
It would be well, perhaps, to take shelter
in the rest-house and wait for the storm to
pass. He cocked a weather-wise eye at the
lowering heavens, and decided to push on.
By all the signs and portents this was to
be no brief tropical downpour. It was
best to push on and get it over.
There was a stir of excitement in the
village. The women were hastening from
the forest heavily laden with firewood.
Hunting parties, bearing wild pigs lashed to
bamboo poles, debouched from the jungle
track, making for shelter. Poultry, dogs,
pigs were being collected and tethered under
the huts. Somebody was blowing a conch-
shell. The clamor was deafening. Men
bawled orders, advice, suggestions to one
another; women raised shrill contradictions,
and mingled with the babble was the thud
of axes, wielded by stalwart bucks, chopping
down the branches of trees that dangerously
overhung the houses. There was a terrified
wailing of children, the muttering of thunder
rapidly drawing nearer, and the throbbing
of drums frenziedly beaten by a party of
ancient, wrinkled men.
“Big-fella rain come, hey?” Huntley
called out, clearing his eyes of the sweat
that trickled into them.
A woman answered him. An obese, good-
humored woman whose grass skirts billowed
about her like a Victorian crinoline.
“My word, Taubada!” she agreed. She
beamed at Huntley with huge cheerfulness.
“Big, bfgr-fella rain, Mis’ Huntley. All-
same before-time. All same forty year
and forty week.”
Huntley grinned and passed on. Old
Katuna harbored no hard feelings concern-
ing her summary ejection from Nataroa.
Her wounded sensibilities—if she had any
sensibilities to wound—had quickly healed.
A ten-pound note, a caddy of trade tobacco
and the blessing of the “Gavamani” had
been sufficient to put her entirely at ease
with a smiling world.
New Guinea fashion! They could neither
hate nor love, Katuna and her sisters; they
could neither sorrow nor rejoice. Fear was
the only emotion that could touch their
savage hearts—make their skins creep, as
they expressed it. And Saroni had shown
fear. He was certain that she had not
gone voluntarily from Calvert’s house to
Nataroa. A filthy business! He could not
shut out the memory of the girl’s sombre,
brooding eyes, her mask-like face. Nor
could he drive from his mind the thought of
that podgy, brown-skinned infant sprawl-
ing happily on the back verandah of
Marian’s house. Saroni’s son—and Cal-
vert’s! Why in God’s name had Charlie
allowed the fellow to thrust his unwanted
woman and her unwanted child upon him?
And why had Charlie taken it in such good
part? Unless, of course, the old man had
no choice. Unless he was dancing to a
tune he had not called.
Huntley’s lips tightened. It was to a
sorry market old Charlie Durrant had
brought his pigs!
All these things flitted across Huntley’s
mind like figures on a screen while he
hurried homeward along the winding jungle
path. Then the storm hit him. A rever-
berating crash of thunder split the universe;
blinding lightning z-i-p-ped down the trunk
of a forest tree, leaving a tang of sulphur in
the air. With a shriek like a million devils
loosed from Hell the tempest broke. Hunt-
ley found himself straining his body against
the tearing force of the blast, lowering his
head that he might breathe the easier. The
heavens opened. His drill suit—soiled,
sodden—flapped clammily about his body.
In a second he was wet to the skin, chilled
to the bone; but, head down and shoulders
hunched he thrust his way along the track.
“All same forty years and forty weeks!”
he muttered. A pity these missionary lad-
dies didn’t confine their activities to the
industrial field. Filling the heads of recep-
tive niggers with fairy stories more fan-
tastic than their own!
The wind-whipped rain pelted into his
face. Rivulets were streaming down the
brim of his soggy helmet; he was flounder-
ing along a track that was become a river
bed in miniature. The wind was a sentient
thing—a deafening, thundering, tearing fury.
He was breathing now in short, sibilant
gasps. A searing blue flame blinding his
eyes; the earth quivered. His heart
pounded and then stood still. A forest
giant—riven, blasted, uprooted—had opened
a yawning cavern a.t his very feet.
It was dark now—pitch-black, opaque.
He staggered along, bent almost double.
Furiously the wind tore at him, the rain
stung his face like the lash of a whip.
“All same forty years and” With
the abruptness of a spectre the station
buildings loomed ahead. Lights in the
residency—blurred, splotched—s how e d
sickly yellow through the murk. His ears
were filled with the scream of the wind,
the cannonade of breakers on the reef. The
lagoon waters hissed and snarled, throw-
ing themselves impotently against the beach.
Desperately he wanted to get indoors. A
hot bath; a hot whisky; a change; quinine,
ten grains—fifteen! He was clawing his
way up the slippery treacherous steps. The
wind followed him in, screeching exultantly
under the eaves. The “boys” had clamped
down the shutters. A useful cove, Gaduari!
A thoroughly dependable lad.
He was on the verandah, shaking himself
like a dog. The rain rattled on the corru-
gated-iron roof like machine-gun fire. Water
poured from him, forming little pools on
the floor. He kicked off his sodden boots,
breathing the still air in deep gulps. More
than anything he craved for a hot bath, a
rough towel—something to make the blood
tingle in his veins.
There was a light in Chisholm’s room.
The lad had returned, then. He thrust
his head through the open door. His eyes
widened.
Chisholm was sitting on the edge of his
stretcher, a flamboyant dressing-gown
clasped tightly about his shoulders. He
was shivering violently, making queer little
retching sounds in his throat. There was
a dull flush on his cheeks, his eyes were
shining with an unnatural brilliance, and
from time to time he slicked back his hair
with a trembling hand.
For a second he gaped inarticulately at
Huntley. Then his lips sputtered words.
“Had a perf’ly bilgy time, ol’ chap.
P’lice carried me in.. Perf’ly stinkin’ time,
y’know. Feel iwotten!”
Huntley moved swiftly to him. He
pressed him firmly back upon the stretcher.
“Get under the blankets, you ass!” he
said. “You’ve got malaria. A dose that’ll
twist the guts out of you, or I miss my
guess.”
A Papuan hurricane, though severe while
it lasts, is usually of brief duration. The
storm which ravaged Aikoroa blew itself
out during the night. Thereafter it rained.
It rained all next day and the next. It
rained for a week—the heavy, soaking, tor-
rential downpour that goes with the north-
west monsoon. Rain! It hissed on the
drab, leaden waters of the lagoon; it
hammered deafeningly on the iron roofs;
it drummed on the drooping fronds of the
melancholy palms. And always, as a mourn-
ful accompaniment, there was the intermin-
able moan of surf along the reef.
The parade ground became a swamp.
Running rivers tore gaps in the gardens, and
flowers, shrubs, seedlings met violent extinc-
tion. There was no comfort now in the
residency. Everything was wet. The canvas
deckchairs were soggy to the touch; blankets
and mosquito nets, sheets and pillows had
a chill clamminess. The walls streamed
where unsuspected rust-holes revealed
themselves in the corrugated-iron roof.
Boots sprouted blue fungus, clothing
became mildewed, metals tarnished. Snakes
abounded; centipedes and scorpions, irresis-
tibly attracted by the warmth of the kitchen
stove raised lamentations among the bare-
footed houseboys.
Huntley’s life was a squelching progres-
sion from house to office and back. He
was aware of a dull ache in his bones only
to be assuaged by recourse to the quinine
bottle. His nerves were on edge, his temper
frayed, his voice brusque. But in his
relations with Freddie Chisholm he was
tender as a woman. Fortunately the lad
was a docile and tractable patient. Once
Huntley had convinced him that he had
not bfeen struck down by mortal disease;
that he was merely suffering from an ordi-
nary issue of ordinary fever which, in New
Guinea, is nothing more than an annoying
interruption in the day’s work, he submitted
with resignation to Huntley’s drastic
treatment.
One morning, after a particularly exhaust-
ing alternation of searing heat and bone-
aching chill, he was lying back, limp and
helpless, while Huntley changed the sweat-
sodden bed linen. He regarded Huntley
with a lack-lustre eye.
“I’m a sick man,” he croaked lugu-
briously. “I’m dam’ crook!”
“Don’t talk tripe!” Huntley brusquely
chided him. “You’ve been taking liberties,
young feller, neglecting your quinine ration,
sleeping without a net, kidding yourself
that you’re an abnormally hardy son-of-a-
gun. And you’ve been severely kicked in
the rear. And it dam’ well serves you right.”
A faint grin gathered about Chisholm’s
mouth and gradually spread over his face.
“I’m glad,” he wrily commented, “that
you’re so infernally chirpy about it, old
chap. It heartens me up immensely.”
Huntley was carefully tucking the
blankets tightly about him; skilfully arrang-
ing the pillows so that the patient could
lie back in comfort. When he had finished
he placed the battered brass tea gong by
the bedside.
“One tap will bring Gaduari,” he said.
“He has strict instructions to stand by in
case he should be required. Sing out if
you want anything, son.”
(To be continued newt week .)
Michaelmas Day.
I cannot see daisies in motli-white rows,
Hear a Mass for Michael, or anything
To do with churches or prayers or spring,
But I think of a hot gold sun that lies
On a ripe cornfield and a woman’s eyes.
The stooks are piled, and a yellow moon
Climbs out of the firs by the mountain way
At the slow, sweet end of the toiler’s day
Of swinging scythes and of tankards set
In the shade of a hedge; of a brown glance
met
By eyes of blue in a silent tryst
Made there ere the crickets wake and shrill
In the long cool grass, while above the hill
Comes the yellow moon, with the summons
bold
Of fearless lovers, ere earth grew old.
Was a grave Mass said at the end of all
For a sin sinned there by the dew-grey
stooks ?
There are things, I fancy, God overlooks
When the corn is gathered and hearts are
young
With a lantern moon on a wild hill hung.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


WILKINSON
SAFETY RAZOR
Made in ENGLAND.
E
M
P
I
R
E
d
ď
d
M
O
D
R
L,
With 2 Hollow-ground Blades and
Strop in Oak Case.
Positive Self-stropping Model E 7,
14/6 each.
E. H. COLLIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne;
103 York Street, Sydney.
Wholesale Distributors.
YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining .
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
BRAKE
LINING
ď
Representative:
ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsuranceseffected on all classes of
1 1 Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Beckwith followed up his Canterbury Park
success with a win in the Horsley Handicap
at Warwick Farm on Wednesday. He was
allowed to go out at 14 to I—a1 —a long price
for a horse victorious three days before,
and one that, as a two-year-old, beat Green-
line on the same course at level weights—
but a little-known apprentice was in the
saddle, and there was a solid commission for
Old Ming, who went out at 2 to 1. That
good-looking tliree-year-old ran a creditable
race, but. proved unable to give lib. to Green-
stead’s son; Golden Gate (14 to 1), another
three-year-old, was third.
Neither Beckwith nor Old Ming started
in the Camden Handicap on Wednesday.
That race went to Loch Garry (7 to 1),
a smart gelding from Newcastle (he is by
Elfacre —Palm Oil), who beat a field that
included Trevallion (third), Burracootboo,
High Disdain and Venetian Lady. Celtic,
unbacked, split Loch Garry and Trevallion,
and ought to be in satisfactory shape for
one of the minor races at Randwick.
Gemlight (8 to 1) gave the bookmakers
a pleasant surprise in the Farm Handicap
on the first day. Loquacious (5 to 2) ought
to have won the December Handicap on
Saturday but, badly ridden, finished behind
wonderful old First Acre (7 to 2) and
Warneton (fives). The mare carried her
Summer Cup weight, 9st. 51b.; she is not
well treated in that race. Tingalha (evens)
placed the Kirkham Stakes to Booth’s credit;
he is a bay gelding by Treclare out of Trim-
acre, who won good handicaps for the Rose-
hill owner-trainer.
The attendance on each day was unsatis-
factory. Reduction of the tax on winning
Bert:'*'! hear you are going, on
A WALKING TOUR THIS
Christmas
*. "NO, INI MOTORING)"
&ERT *. "GWEN UP THE IDEA. OP
HIKING* “*■"
G\ert‘. Yes. I find its so difficult
TO <=»ET SPARE PARTS IP
YOU BREAK. OOWM
bets (it is not now collected on the amount
staked) has made no difference in that
respect. The tax has been dodged whole-
sale by professionals and “semis” who book
their wagers, but the cash punter has to pay.
Lowering of the Government tote impost
from 9 p.c. to 5 p.c. conditionally on all
clubs installing straightout, place and double
machines would bring in more revenue,
reckoning the admission tax in; but the
Government hasn’t gumption enough to see
that.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Corinthian Cup: Celtic; next, Workman,
Dundas Handicap: Burracootboo; next,
Pentlieus
December Handicap: Gemlight; next,
Sackbut
Carlingford Mile: Shrill Trill; next,
Btllics
* * *
snrniosod to be the forte of
Tfov and he P was allowed to -o out at
JL d _ mile event at Moonee Valley
Mlou™ rd SnteS r when W he tlsKTdosl
Starala. .
Urangarra’s triumph filled McShortodds
with delight Duncan’s mount, Royal Blaze,
a leggy son of imported Tarquin, had been
backed for oodles of money, while Donace
and Redditch, recent winners, alsof met with
heavy support. Urangarra paid nearly 32 to
1 on the tote and was quoted at 50 to 1 by
those bookmakers who furnish s.p. figures
to daily newspapers. It is questionable
whether you could have obtained anything
like 50 to 1 about him; nathless he was an
outsider of the sort that ringmcn love. Uran-
garra, once owned by Tindall, is now in
the hands of Joe Bird, father-in-law of the
lightweight jockey “Tich” Wilson. He has
had a couple of outings over hurdles. Inci-
dentally, Wilson leaves for England in
February.
Tlirawn, a cast-off from the stable of “S. A.
Rawdon,” credited H. W. Morton with the
Ballarat Cup last week, and was strongly
supported for the Fund Handicap at Moonee
Valley, but could not accommodate himself
to the short galloping stretches. Fact of
Duncan being in the saddle made Pendennis
favorite. Duncan had an afternoon of
“outs,” the nearest he got to winning being
third on Beautify in the Welter Plate. In
the effort to cut down Lord Whittier, the
pacemaker, Pendennis knocked up. Galenist
followed up her Epsom success by defeating
Lord Whittier in fine style. She still belongs
to John Wren, who leased her to Jack James.
P. (“Duck”) Hoysted, the N. S. Wales
trainer, is making his presence felt in Mel-
bourne as an owner of jumpers. He captured
the Brush Steeplechase at Epsom with
Ragatzky, and landed the Hurdle Race at
Moonee Valley with Skirmish, who just
squeezed home in advance of Calfly. _ Last-
named was nearly as good a favorite as
Spear King, a Spearhead gelding. The
weight (11.3) was too much for Spear King
in a fast-run race. Steve Murphy, who owns
and trains Spear King, recovered his losses
when The Dawn Patrol brilliantly won the
Two-year-old Handicap. In the hands of
Skidmore, a stable apprentice, The Dawn
Patrol shaped better than he had done for
Duncan on the previous Saturday, when he
lost to Eminere, a son of Heroic. At “the
Valley” Eminere was sixth only, but he
suffered interference, which also was the
experience of Tindall’s Ohetowaik, who
started favorite.
Claude Duval and Loquacity made a dead
heat for first in the Highweight Handicap,
and the rider of Loquacity charged Ray
Wilson with crowding him at the home turn.
The stewards ruled against him. Claude
Duval is trained by George Delaney, who
put up a record at the 1914 Melbourne Gup
meeting by annexing three handicaps with
De Gama.
* * ,
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Laluma Handicap: Mural Crown: next,
King Mart. _
Kiata Handicap: Einga; next, Credence.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: One of the biggest sensa-
tions the English Turf has known since the
Bend Or inquiry had an airing last week
when a Newmarket trainer was awarded
£16,000 damages and costs against
Lords Ellesmere, Harewood and Rosebery,
stewards of the Jockey Club, for libel The
trouble arose when a horse trained by Cliap-
man was doped. The stewards called for
an inquiry, and though Chapman protested
his innocence and stated that he had made
every offer to trace the offender, including
a substantial money reward, he was warned
off the famous heath, being stigmatised ‘an
£
matter, since an appeal has been lodged. All
three peers are members of famous English
racing families, the Earl of Harewood being
more widely known to the general public as
the Lord Lascelles who married 1 rmcess
Mary. Rosebery is a son of the famous
Prime Minister and owner of Derby winners.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Fred Hannaberry (list, ljlb.) seemed
unable to strike true form m the early stages
of his fight with Merv. Williams (list
s|lb.) at Leichhardt last Friday night, while
Williams did better than was anticipated.
Behind on points, Hannaberry fought much
more forcefully as the mill progressed, and
floored his man twice in the eighth. Williams
visited the canvas again on four occasions,
until the referee intervened to crown Hanna-
berry in the eleventh.
* * * *
Melbourne’s Bert Malcolm (9st. 111 b.)
boxed too busily for Perth lightweight Phil
Sullivan (9st. 111 b.) at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday, and, although Sullivan spurted
midway in the mill, Malcolm’s attack m
the majority of rounds won for him. More
punches than are used in two average .con-
tests nowadays were exchanged ; but neither
could knock the other down.
* * * *
For the third time this year a boxer has
been knocked out with fatal results at
Leichhardt. The unlucky lad on this occasion
was Hal Roach, 19 years old; severely pun-
ished in a four-round bout, when he went
down for the last time his head struck the
canvas, and he died in hospital. Like the
other unfortunate fellows, Roach was medi-
cally examined before entering the ring,
the floor of which is covered and padded in
accordance with the regulations. Neverthe-
less, the authorities should satisfy themselves
that every reasonable precaution was taken.
Owing to the hard times, many unemployed
lads are going into the ring to earn a few
shillings, and there is only too much reason
to suppose that some of them are under-
nourished. Thanks to a “Labor” Govern-
ment, boxers are not covered by workers’-
compensation insurance.
The Ins and Outs
South Africa, after losing a day when rain
prevented play on Saturday, made a good
start against N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket
Ground on the Monday, getting rid of the
two opening batsmen, Bill and Fingleton, for
8 runs. Bradman and McCabe made a useful
stand until the Grenfell lad was caught by
Christy off Bell for 28. Bradman, going
great guns, scored freely off all bowlers,
losing Marks (6) and Solomon (11) before
getting into three figures. Oldfield came out
to hold an end up, and when 200 was shown
on the board Bradman was 122. Bradman
got to his 200 (he is making a habit of it)
when the score was 6 for 314.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Pity we can’t introduce the
methods of Sydney junior cricket into the
Tests. While Mitchell was batting 90
minutes without scoring for South Africa in
Brisbane, the other day, a youth named
Moore, playing for Lavender Bay against
Naremburn, scored 180 not out in 80
minutes. His score included 14 sixers and
19 fours —160 runs made in boundary
strokes.
# * * *
“Lancaster Park”: It seems certain now
that Maoriland will have a whirlwind
glimpse of the South Africans, the Aus-
tralian Board of Control having given the
scheme its blessing, and the South African
authorities following suit. An itinerary is
now in process of being drawn up, for the
visitors will have an extra three weeks to
tour owing to the date of their sailing from
Fremantle having been put forward from
March 2 to March 24.
* * * *
“Stanley”: Hornibrook’s retirement from
Queensland cricket was, perhaps, the result
of petulance (B. 2/12/’3l), but it must be
admitted that during his cricket career the
lefthander has had good reason to feel
aggrieved. Ten years ago, when he was a
left-hand bowler of exceptional promise, he
was carefully kept out of the Australian
Eleven for England. When an unexpected
vacancy occurred Hendry got the preference.
As a sop to Hornibrook he was sent to
Maoriland with a side that season, Grim-
mett, another bowler despised and rejected
of the junta, being also in the team. On
that tour Hornibrook took 81 wickets at a
cost of 8.91 apiece, eloquent testimony of
what he might have done on English pitches.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Queenslanders confidently ex-
pected to see Afrikander Steyn in action in
the. match with the State or in the Test
while the tourists were in Brisbane, but
he did not turn out in either game. It
will be remembered that he came direct
from Fremantle to Brisbane to sit for his
Pretoria University exams., which it had
been arranged would be taken by Queens-
land Uni., and while -waiting for his cobbers
to come north he had shown excellent form
at the practice nets. A hard-punching left-
hander and a first-class fieldsman, his omis-
sion to date has been something of a sur-
prise.
* * * *
“Iconoclast” : Don Bradman’s double cen-
tury in the Test in Brisbane is the fifth that
he has compiled in Test matches in his
short career. It is worth noting that
two of the big scores have been made
in Brisbane, one against the West Indies
last season, and the latest against the
Springboks. The three others were put to-
gether in England, at Leeds, Lord’s and the
Oval, so it can hardly be said that the ex-
Bowral player is at his best, as so many
batsmen are and have been —notably W. G.
Grace at Lord’s —on any one ground. In all
first-class matches so far, Don has passed
the 200 mark 14 times. He now excels with
J. B. Hobbs, but has C. B. Fry and Hendren
still ahead of him with 16 and 17 respec-
tively. Whether the bowling he has had to
deal with is as formidable as. that some of
his predecessors had to face is a debatable
matter.
(Continued on page 31.)
South Africa beat Wales in the first Rugby
international of the European season at
Swansea by 8-8, and though the weather was
bad 40,000. people watched the game. Wales,
which has beaten M.L. and Australia, has
yet to down the ’Boks, who have now won
three games off the reel.
* * * *
After holding the Australian snooker title
for 18 years, Frank Smith, of N.S.W., was
beaten by 19-year-old Horace Lindrum, of
Victoria, in Sydney last week, the scores
being 8899 to 8262 for the series. Smith
has challenged the winner, and another
match for a £5O side-wager and the title
will be played. Lindrum is a nephew of
the famous Walter, and is already on his
way to become a champion billiard-player.
• * * *
The inter-State tennis matches in Mel-
bourne between Victoria, N.S.W. and South
Australia saw the home sides well trounced
by the visitors as far as the menfolk were
concerned. N.S.W. beat the Cabbage Gar-
deners by 15 rubbers to 6, or 266 games to
224. Hopman’s convincing defeat of Jack
Crawford in two straight sets was some con-
solation to the locals. South Australia tri-
umphed by 14 rubbers to 7 —265 games to
224. In the women’s series the home side
beat N.S.W. by 7 rubbers to 5, though the
Ma State took 153 games to 149. In the
match with South Australia, the Victori-
ennes were victorious by 8 rubbers (130
games) to 4 (107 games).


Pr>
o,
v)U /
u
o, >. &r3<a-> ir *
3
ferA
Vv?L. vT
i
£ *
•?XI
9 W
Hh*
o
&-J
< r
0
,1
f yib c k
y M
T,
the days when the world
was very young, a certain wise
man conceived the idea of
sending a message to the moon.
After many months of thought
he decided that if all people
on earth were , at a given time
and a given signal, to shout as
loud as they could, the noise
ivould surely reach the moon.
The day, the hour and the
minute came. But instead of
a tremendous shout there was
a sudden hush .... Everyone
had left it to his neighbour.
Each one had said to himself
"My little voice won’t be
heard—VU just listen / ”
Don’t le
your nei;
it all to
ur!
NOW, as perhaps never before, Australia needs your help
in the fight through difficult times. Don’t belittle your
own importance in the tremendous problem Australia
is facing. When it comes to the big effort be one who “shouts”—
not one who “listens.” Every smallest purchase of Empire and
Australian goods is one Step nearer the goal. Every gallon of
C.O.R Motor Spirit you buy means money in Australia’s pocket.
For C.O.R is half-owned by your own Commonwealth Govern-
ment . . you , as an Australian citizen, are a shareholder. And,
quite apart from that, your car’s improved performance will
soon convince you that C.O.R is the finest motor spirit your
money can buy.
MOTO
PIRIT
The Commonwealth Oil
Victoria: Poolman St
Sydney: 117 Pitt Street. Agents
C.1.18/36/3]
A fine Spirit . . and your own
Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
reet, Port Melbourne, 5.C.7. Phone M 3261. Refinery: Laverton, Vic.
for Queensland. South Australia and Country Districts of New South Wales, DALGETY & CO. LTD.
The Ins and Outs
With the odds heavily against them for
the greater portion of the first Test match
with Australia at Brisbane, the South
Africans made a gallant fight for it, finally
going down, after following on, by an inn-
ings and 163 runs. The rain which pre-
vented play on the third day of the match
held on, and a fresh start could not be made
until late on the fifth. The wicket was in a
dreadful condition, whiskered like a Bol-
shevik, and had the Australian bowlers been
able to take advantage of it the tourists
would never have been able to reach their
first-innings score of 170, to which Taylor
contributed a masterly 41, while Mitchell
doggedly held his bat up and down until
there was 51 opposite his name. Ironmonger
eventually came out with the best bowling
figures, 5 for 42, but should have done better.
Wall and Grimmett secured a couple of
wickets each. Following on, South Africa
found the pitch even more hostile, and was
all out for 117, Taylor (47) again batting
like a champion. VVall clinched his claim
on selection for future Tests with 5 wickets
for 14, while Ironmonger again came off
with 4 for 44, or 9 for 86 for the match.
* * *
“Old Q.”: There is no need for the South
Africans to feel downcast over their unfor-
tunate experience in the first Test. Solid
as the defeat was, others of greater preten-
sions have made even a more miserable show-
ing in Test cricket in Queensland. In the
first Test with Chapman’s last English team
at Brisbane, the home side was beaten by
675 runs. Though the wicket was perfect
for batsmen throughout the match, the Aus-
tralians could only muster 122 and 66 in
their two innings against Larwood and co.
;J« jJj ;];
The side for the second Test against
South Africa, which starts in Sydney on
December 18, includes Victorian Rigg vice
the injured Kippax, and the South Austra-
lian all-rounder Lee in place of Oxenham.
On his performance in the Brisbane Test,
the omission of the Queenslander is not sur-
prising, though he was given little oppor-
tunity to show his bowling quality. In Shef-
field cricket to the end of last season, Lee had
taken 35 wickets at a cost of 42.77 runs
each. With the bat he has made 553 runs,
averaging 19.75. To date this season Lee
has made 1 and 6 with the bat against South
Africa and has taken 2 wickets for 67
and 1 for 29. Against Victoria his scores
were 0 and 7, while he took 1 for 54 and
3 for 22.
Racquet and Bawl
“Koo'yong” : In spite of squeals of indig-
nation from some of the States which can-
not fix the dates of their championships
until the matter is finally settled, the Aus-
tralian tennis heads in Melbourne have
again dodged coming to a decision as to
whether Australia shall challenge for the
Davis Cup of 1932. They are to consider the
matter on December 21. It was understood
when the decision to enter every two years
was arrived at that there would be a chal-
lenge in 1932, the play taking place in the
European zone. There is no lack of funds,
and with Crawford a greatly-improved player
nowadays, there should be an excellent team
available for him to lead. Hopman would
probably win his way into second place, and
the inclusion of some new blood, notably
such improving young players as Turnbull,
of South Australia, would be welcomed by
the public which pays.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: One of the disappoint-
ments of the last all-England championships
at Wimbledon was the failure of F. Zappa
and C. Rogers to qualify to meet each other
in the closing stages of the tourney. Zappa,
an _ Argentino, barely five feet high, is as
active as a flea on a hot shovel, and for
antics and stunting on the court, has Borotra
looking like a Presbyterian elder after a
poor collection. Rogers is Irish, 6ft. 7in.
high and almost as much across, and very
bovine and deliberate in action. A match
between the two would have been the star
turn of the tourney.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: Every golfer in Australia will
regret to hear of the destruction by fire
of the clubhouse at Kensington. The
building, which was fairly well on in years,
was largely constructed of wood, and this
part of it was a total loss, though the lower
storey of brick suffered less by comparison.
Nevertheless the Australian club, and mem-
bers in particular, lost heavily, though the
club at least was partially covered by
insurance. Most serious was the loss of
the club records for 25 years and the melt-
ing down to lumps of metal of many-valuable
cups and other golf trophies. Members will
be able to carry on. two adjacent blocks of
flats having been taken by the committee.
* * * *
“Baffy” : The annual battle for the N.S.W.
Professional Golfers’ Association Cup is
timed to start next week on the N.S.W.
club’s course at La Perouse. The cup is
a gold trophy presented by the association,
the winner holding it for a year and receiv-
ing a tiny replica as a record. The match
is 36 holes stroke, and after it has been
decided the usual dinner will be held. This
is the third year of the competition. Frank
Eyre, of Long Bay, ex-open champion
of Australia, took the pot in 1929, and J.
Cohen, the Moore Park caddie of yore, won
last year. Cohen is now in Queensland and
will not be able to get down to defend his
title. Tommy Howard, of Concord, should
start a warm favorite.
’f' : i : Jjc i}c
“Divot Digger”: In spite of protests
from the racing and training fraternity in the
suburb, Randwick (N.S.W.) Council is
determined to carry on with its scheme for
a municipal golf course. The Council recently
resolved to raise a special loan of £lOOO
among ratepayers, and so good was tne
response that a few days saw £1025 in the
tatty. A start will be made as soon as pos-
sible, and should supply some much-needed
help for some of Randwick’s out-of-works
over the Christmas season.
—4
Car and Cycle
“Awanui”: All preparations have been
completed for Norman Smith’s attempt on
the world’s speed record on the Ninety-mile
Beach in Maoriland, and nothing remains
but for Smith to make up his mind as to
the date. As the tides will be most suitable
at the end of December or early in January,
it is expected that the attempt will be made
then. Any further delay will probably mean
that the delicate electric timing apparatus
will have to be returned to store at Auckland,
as even a short period of exposure to the
sea air will probably seriously affect its
accuracy. Ten miles of wire for the timing
is in position. It was rumored that Smith
and Harkness would fly over from Sydney,
but Smith scoffs at the notion. Probably
he considers one way of risking his neck
is enough for any man.
% * X
“Pram” : The smaller cars continue to hit
up records that a few years ago would have
been thought marvellous for the highest-
powered racers. The English driver G. T.
Eyston hoisted six new records at Montl-
hery recently, ranging from 50 kilometres
(31 miles 123 yards) to 200 kilometres (124
miles, 482 yards), all being covered at a
rate of over 108 m.p.h. The car was in the
under 1100-c.c. class, a standard Riley
without supercharger.
i'fi % ❖ ❖
“Whizz” : The revolution in speed brought
about in a few years by "the development of
the internal-combustion engine is remark-
ably evident in a comparison of times as
they stand to-day with those of 20 years
ago. In 1910 Yankee Barney Oldfield was
the world’s record-holder with 131.75 m.p.h.
To-day Malcolm Campbell has the floor with
245.73. In the same year another Yank, F.
Huyck, rode a motor-cycle at the staggering
rate, for those days, of 85.6 m.p.h. The
record now stands at 150.7 m.p.h., put up by
Englishman Wright. The motor-boat record
in 1909 was 37.9 m.p.h., another American
performance. Kaye Don now holds it with
110. As to aeroplanes—well, in 1909 French-
man Delagrange whizzed through the air at
49.9 m.p.h. Stainforth has done 415.2.
* * *
“Denham Park” : The Victorian push-bike,
rider Jack Fitzgerald has been credited
with a world’s record for a quarter-mile on
a board track, flying start —23sec. The pre-
vious best was 23 4-ssec.. by Lawson, of
America, as long ago as 1906. Our cycling
authorities must be a leisurely lot, for
though Fitzgerald put up his performance
over a year ago in Brisbane, the Australian
Federal Cycling Council has just recognised
it. From a standing start over the same dis-
tance, Fitzgerald recorded 28sec., an Aus-
tralian record, but three-fifths of a second
worse than the great Frank Kramer’s
figures, which have stood for 16 years.
Miscellaneous
“Retired Leg”: Unfortunately, dishonest
folk intrude even on the pastime favored of
Gosling, the N.S.W. Minister for Tin Hares.
Ring-ins having been numerous before the
Bavin blight descended on the poor man’s
sport, a new method has been evolved by the
tin-hare authorities to identify dogs. It con-
sists in taking the footprints of the hounds,
and these, recorded in a special indelible and
waterproof ink, will be attached to the regis-
tration certificate every tyke must possess.
It may work out all right, but there are less
ticklish jobs than taking the footprints of
a strange dog, and greyhounds in training
are apt to prove a cantankerous lot.
* * * *
“Splash”: The refusal of the committee
organising the Australian national games in
Melbourne next February to adopt metric
measurements for the races, and thus fall
into line with Olympic requirements, renders
the meeting practically useless as a test for
Olympic candidates. Another matter affects
the swimmers. All the Olympic races will be
swum in fresh water, whereas the Australian
tests are, with few exceptions, carried out in
salt. There is a considerable difference, and
candidates for selection in the team for Los
Angeles should be given every opportunity of
getting used to the “feel” of fresh water.


CJM^!
Cl fleu>
AUSTRALIAN
CANNED FISH
r
d
FLATHEAD or GARFISH
A NEW AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY.
A DELICIOUS PRODUCT.
ilb. and lib. tins.
ORDER FROM YOUR GROCER!
Canned by the
Fishpac Co., Short St., Marrickville.
’Phone: Ll5Ol.
IT IS SO EASY
Just a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken. .
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money, but since a sum so small as 1 J- will be accepted
as the first deposit, hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and start your shillings to working
for you.
(flommonwcaltb Savtoßanhf Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
đ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oaultieia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Amusements,
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERA.
CRITERION: LET US BE GAY
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS,
With GLADYS MONCRIEFF
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Mother bought tickets for Gilsullivan # at
the week-end on the strength of the passing
of the Savings Bank Amalgamation Bill. If
it doesn’t cost them more than £lO we are
to get 10 p.c. of our deposits “as soon as
possible”—and that will be, we are pro-
mised, a week or more before Christmas.
What will happen after that nobody knows;
but deposits have climbed back so near
20s. in the £ that the fishermen have almost
left off baiting their hooks. They are no longer
telling the poor distracted creature with a
debt-instalment falling due to-morrow that
she’s very lucky indeed to have met a gentle-
man so kind as to let her have 12s. And
there have been worse cases even than that.
A story reached this Letter of an unfor-
tunate old couple who were terrified into
taking 10s. in the £ for their lifetime’s sav-
ings of £BOO.
So far there has been no rush of Christ-
mas shopping. Many gaily green and tin-
selled trees raise themselves in invitation to
mother and father; but father is waiting till
the last moment to release his gold (a
figure of speech, you’ll understand), and
wise mother, when she has an account, is
strictly limiting that fatally glib expression,
“Please enter it.”
Somebody told an old George Lambert
story the other day, but it’s worth repeat-
ing. George, his beard very pointed, was
swaggering down Miller’s Point way one
afternoon with a friend, and a plump maiden
at one of the corners took exception to him
on general principles. “Hello,” she scoffed,
“here comes Father Christmas.” George
stopped, looked at her carefully, smiled and
said: “Well, I filled your stocking pretty
full, anyway.”
Punch and Judy were aboard the Orford
the other afternoon to greet the 600 or more
kiddies who opened up their Christmas round
of festivities on the liner’s white decks. Bal-
loons, slippery-slides, swings and ice-creams
were joys that brought a community chuckle
of delight from the youngsters. The ship
presented a spirited scene when Young
Sydney got into action and mothers and
nurses slid about in perpetual motion after
their quicksilver charges. A pair of chooks
from the Harry Dransfield farm made quite
a hit as the prize for a guessing competition.
Mrs. Dransfield organised the party, which
is a yearly fixture for the Adult Deaf and
Dumb, and helped with the Housewives
stall. Here also served graceful Margaret
Hagon. Have these Margarets a lien on good
looks? Margaret Yyner was another eye-
arrester in a cream Outfit. Morna MaaCor-
mick and her young man were covertly fol-
lowed ,by every eye. Orient managers Dow-
dell and Andrew, Chief Justice Streets
lady and Mrs. Milner Stephen were other
notables of the afternoon, which was smiled
upon by the vicereine.
Just in front of Syd Long’s beautiful
“tree sketch for etching,” Captain Watson,
veteran of the Royal Historical Society,
received congratulations on his 90th birth-
day. It was a happy idea to surround the
party with the quietness of the Painter-
Etchers’ exhibition. The Captain’s daughter,
Mrs. G. A. Swift, was hostess, and members
of the Historical Society, for which the Cap-
tain is research secretary, occurred with
great frequency among the guests. On the
principal table there was a rosy iced and
tiered cake surrounded by 90 candles, whose
tiny tapers just lived long enough to blink,
as it were, a carefree eye at the passage
of time. And Miss Betts was another notable
present. The Bettses go back to the very
earliest days, the first Betts having been
brought to Australia by old Parson Marsden
to help him with his school. After that there
was a wedding in the family: Betts —
Marsden, the latter the parson’s daughter.
While the Town Hall, its purlieus and
its environs were packed with listeners seek-
ing guidance from Mr. Lyons, the Prince
Edward was just as crowded to see Theo-
dore Dreiser’s “American Tragedy”—a power-
ful, humorless indictment of a woman who
went abroad to save souls and neglected
those in her own home. Theodore Dreiser
must be a likeable fellow, for he has found
time to write several helpful letters to Jean
Hull, a beginner on Australia’s Inky Way,
since somebody showed him one of her
kiddy stories; but the “American Tragedy”
in book form gives this Letter the same
sensation as a cold, sad scone. Of course,
Dreiser might reply that therein lay his
triumph—he meant to make his reader
unhappy. And, heavens! in one instance,
he succeeded.
But the theatre was brilliant with lus-
trous wraps and filmy frocks; and a picture
showing two Hollywood beauties, one a
blonde, the other a brunette, making up for
the day could be classed as educational,
judging by the close attention with which
every woman followed it. Possibly the ser-
pent announced himself as a health-and-
beauty lecturer to Eve, and possibly the
poor dear fell to the slogan, “An apple a
day keeps the doctor away.” Conductor
Albert Cazabon was welcomed back.
The Mater Misericordim Hospital has just
completed a quarter of a century’s fine work
for the community. To celebrate this and
the 100th anniversary of the founding of
the Mercy order, the nuns of the North
Side institution gathered their friends around
them on Saturday. As universal as mercy
itself was the gathering. On the platform
sat Archbishop Kelly and G.-G. Isaacs, local
mayors and loquacious politicians. Dr.
Dan Kelly, the hospital’s first surgeon, was
among the speakers, and in the assembly
were Mrs. P. Leahy and four of the sisters
who started the hospital. The afternoon-tea
was a tremendous affair, worthy of the hos-
pital’s record for hospitality, and the savories
disappeared even as the leaf before the locust.
Jean and Lute Drummond arrived home
by the Ballarat last week after seven years
in Europe,
with London
as their head-
quarters.
Jean, whose
photo. is
alongside, re-
newed her
study of opera
in Italy and
Germany, and
did much con-
cert and re-
cital wor k.
Lute, who
speaks French,
German and
Italian and is
a sympathetic
a c c ompanist,
that pearl
above price to
the young
singers seek-
ing the ears
of impresarios, has spent much of her time
coaching for opera. One of her students was
Lady Armstrong, wife of Sir George, a retired
Admiral. When not coaching, Lute has been
lately translating Dinh Gilly’s book on sing-
ing from the French. Dinh Gilly was an
associate of Melba, Caruso, Destin and our
own Brownlee at the Metropolitan and other
opera houses. Another book on voice-pro-
duction, by Cornelie Van Zanten, the German
woman who had the honor of lecturing to
the Reichstag, has been translated by Lute,
and the proofs have just been forwarded to
her from The Hague.
The Australians give vivid thumbnail
sketches of happenings from Budapest to
London. They tell of seeing Melba arriv-
ing one night alone at Covent Garden —
usually the diva went about accompanied
by a little court. She came into the vesti-
bule rather late, and walked slowly up the
marble stairs that lead to the auditorium.
As she mounted she gazed reflectively at the
sketches of opera stars that lined the way.
She wore a gold brocade cloak, gold shoes
and pale green silk stockings, and on
her head glittered a tiara of diamonds and
emeralds. Her progress was slow; perhaps
on that night (it was just before her return
to Australia) she was saying good-bye to her
old friends and the scene of her triumphs.
In Rome they saw the Pope bestow the red
hat on two grave churchmen. They saw
the Nubians and the Swiss Guard in that
procession; they saw Merry del Val and Gas-
parri; they saw the Pope from his palan-
quin bless a multitude of the nations of the
world.
They were at the Fabian Club the night
Bernard Shaw inveighed against this
mechanical age. They saw Viscount Snow-
den’s wife adorn the platform with her clear-
cut profile and red-gold hair, she as physic-
ally vigorous as her husband is fragile. They
lunched with Owen Cox and Miss Bonser
at Monte Carlo. The shipping magnate has
a luxurious flat, his own bedroom done in
the Venetian style, and fit to house a Doge.
The dining-room is tremendously handsome
and antique, and the food (he was always a
good host) was perfection. Another Syd-
neyite at Monte is Mrs. Thornett, a daughter
of the late Hugh Dixson. Her villa is one
of the prettiest.
Nellie Leach, now married, was another
Australian the Drummonds met everywhere.
When Nellie wasn’t flying to Paris to sing
or taking a look at America, she lived with
her aunt, Miss Crawford, not far from the
Three Arts Club and Madame Tussaud’s.
The Plaza, one of the big cinemas, relied
on Nellie to help them in emergencies. If
any artist “fell down on them” they would
send for the Australian girl. The last time,
at two hours’ notice, she went on and sang
with the famous Tiller girls as background
and chorus. Leah Russell, better remembered
as Leah Myers, made a hit in one of the
smaller parts of “Bitter-Sweet in the New
York production. Rose Cummings, who has
won fame for interior decorations is as
well known on the Continent as in —.menca.
Her hair is snow-white, and she is very good-
looking. Another Australian they bring news
of is Alice Crawford, now Mrs. Harcourt
Williams. Alice went to London and made
a hit in Beerbolim Tree’s company about
the time Amy Castles was made one o, the
Court singers in Vienna. She left the
when she married the English _ newspaper
correspondent who had interviewed ootn
her and Amy on their arrival m Vienna.
Sydney has been entertaining two interest-
ing R.N. Admirals. Guy Gaunt, brother ot
Mary, the novelist, son of the late Judge
Gaunt, of Victoria, and an ex-M.P., put up
at the Union Club. He looks ten years
younger than the 62 that he owns up to,
and he found time, being a dynamo of energy,
to look up his old friends and make some
speeches before going on to his home city.
He has seen active service in most parts ot
the world since 1897, when he was lieutenant
of the Swift in the Philippines, and he had
some exciting moments as a British secret
service official in the U.S.A. during the
World War. His home is in England, but
he has interests in Australia, Morocco,
Jamaica and elsewhere, so he never rests for
long in one place. The other seafarer,
Rear-Admiral Massey, R.N., has been mak-
ing the Bondi Hotel his headquarters. As
a former captain of R.A.N. cruisers lie
knows much about Sydney and its inhabit-
ants; and he is so enamored of them that
he is talking of making his home here.
An R.A.N. man, by the way, Lieut-Com-
mander McKenzie, is responsible for the
rash of little flags that harbor-siders and
ferry-boat travellers have been noticing tor
some time at Garden Island. They repre-
sent weather forecasts of an elaborate
nature. Mr. Mares supplies the information
and Lieut-Commander McKenzie provides
the publicity, so to speak. “But how am I
to interpret the flags?” asks the suburbanite
who doesn’t happen to have heard of the
Beaufort Scale. The N.S.W. Section of
the Ex-Naval Men’s Association has pro-
vided the answer in the form of a card
containing pictures of all the flags flown
on the island and their meanings. It can
be bought at any bookstall for 3d., and
the proceeds go to a good cause.
At eight o’clock on Saturday there wasn’t
a seat unoccupied in the Savoy Theatre. To
see Doris Fitton and her Independents in
Barrie’s “Kiss for Cinderella” and Synge’s
“Shadow of the Glen,” theatrically-minded
Sydney had turned up in force and good
clothes. Grace Hart and H'awdon Wilson
played Cinderella and her policeman, and
this caused onlookers to smile romantically
to each other and murmur “You know they
are engaged.” Doris Fitton’s voice of beauty,
which placed her in her stage days as under-
study to Muriel Starr, ran a harp-like accom-
paniment to the poetry of Synge’s words.
Australia is very proud of surgeon Alex-
ander MacCormick. His work during the
war and since for the soldiers, the handing
over of his
far-famed hos-
pital, the Ter-
races, to the
Scottish
church, his
generosity to
individual suf-
ferers as well
as his genius
have made him
a national
figure. So
when his
younger
daughter
Morna became
engaged the
other dav Syd-
ney felt it had
a personal in-
terest in the
romance.
Morna has
sunny hair, a
brilliant com-
plexion and
the most natural manner in tlie world —•
outstanding features, though even Monte
Luke couldn’t show them in this photo.
The lucky young man is Colin Anderson, a
director of the Orient Co. in Australia, and
a son of Sir Alan, the Orient’s chairman
of directors in London. Like his father the
young man is keen on tennis and swimming.
Members of the Harborside branch of the
C.W.A. lifted up their voices in song at Mrs.
James Ashton’s home in Double Bay one
afternoon last week. The affair was a
before-Christmas tea-drinking, and com-
munity singing was the amusement. And
really if you do sing badly it may be better
to exercise your own face- and throat-muscles
than to feel them growing stiff while you
listen like a graven image to a series of star
turns. The only soloist of the afternoon
was Betty Higgins, and she sang twice just
to give the rest a breather. Betty is a pupil
of Lois Zucker, and her voice is developing
in style and strength. Susan Spencer was
the cool and fresh Cecilia of the keyboard all
through the afternoon. The polo trophies
that the Ashton brothers brought home from
their world tour proved fascinating to the
visitors. One was from tlie sporting and
gay Alfonso of Spain; and there were _ cups
from India and ash-trays bearing beautifully
modelled polo ponies from America.
Barbara and Elizabeth Knox were wel-
comed home at a cocktail party, and they had
to step briskly off the Orama the other after-
noon for the shaking, which filled the
Edward Knox home on Bellevue Hill with
Sydney’s best and brightest.
Queensland’s gossip : —-
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went to the
private recital given by Edward Cahill in Paling’s
music saloon. The Chief Justice and his lady,
the Premier and Mrs. Moore and the Mayoress
were among the audience. Edward gave Schubert,
Chopin, Liszt, Beethoven, Brahms, and later a
“little waltz” written by Mrs. Spencer Browne and
his own arrangements of “The Minstrel Boy.” There
was a supper party at Lennon’s.
Their Exes, were also present at Marjorie Hollin-
shed and Phyllis Danaher’s staging of “In the Time
of Boses” at Cremorne, given for the Charity Organi-
sation Society. Some 250 took part in the ballets.
Wallace Patterson married Phyllis Worley, a
granddaughter of those fine old pioneers the S. H.
Lawtons, of Drayton, in St. Andrew’s Kirk, Pitts-
worth. The bride was in powder-blue Chantilly
lace with daffodil-straw hat and ostrich feather.
Lorna Worley ’maided in apricot moire taffetas.
The Parish Hall saw the feasting.
At St. Peter’s, Southport, Leonard Pardoe and
Mollie Freeman were made one. The bride, who was
given away by her father, was in white mariette
with a blue pattern, and a wide-brimmed white
hat. Daphne Pardoe ’maided in green mariette, with
cream hat. Labrador House saw the feasting, and
the ’moon rises on the Northern Hirers.
St. Patrick’s, Toowoomba, saw the wedding of
Frank Hickey to Gwen Lynch. The bride was in
parchment satin with a veil of cut tulle and cap
of cobweb lace. Lily and Val Lynch ’maided in
pale pink and eau-de-nil broderie Anglaise respec-
tively. Pink and white decked the Cafe Alexandra
for the feasting.
At the Q.T.C. races were Mesdames E. J. Watt, of
Sydney, in melon pink; her sister, Mrs. F. L.
Cavaye (London), in black and white crepe
de Chine with black hat; Mrs. Whittingham, in navy
and white; Mrs. E. D. White (Toowoomba), in
lacquer red and white; and Mrs. A. A. Baynes, in
parchment crepe de Chine. Jade green was worn
by Mrs. A. C. Palmer ; Mrs. LI. Bonney chose chart-
reuse green; Mrs. T. J. Eyan black; Airs. George
Addison natural patterned Shantung; Mrs. Allom
sky-blue; and Jean Buchanan red linen. Amongst
the throng were Brigadier-General and Mrs. E. M.
Ralph, Mrs. Wallis Hoare, Lieut.-Commander F. L.
Cavaye and Dr. J. J. Power.
Air. and Airs. T. G. Lahey’s beautiful home at
Clayfield was made available for a benefit for the
Y.W.C.A. Bridge tables were on the piazza and
tea was set on the lawns. Lady Goodwin was wel-
comed by Mrs. W. H. Barnes, who voiced the general
regret at her Ex.’s approaching departure from
Queensland. Lady Goodwin wore jacaranda blue
with touches of cream and a pandeau hat; the
Alayoress was in black georgette and a sea-blue silk
coat, dotted with lime and grey; Airs. Aloore was
in amber with a brown faced jacket and hat; Airs.
Barnes was in cream broderie Anglaise; and Airs.
Ryan was in black and white.
The Queensland Press Institute entertained the
visiting journalists with the South African players
at a luncheon in Rowe’s banqueting hall. Airs. W-
Young, the president, received in black marocain
and mastic and black hat.
Tassie walks on: —
The Hobart Repertory Society finished up its
1931 season with a production of “The Constant
Nymph.” There were a few weaknesses, but,
taken right through, the show was astonishingly
good. Junee Cornell as the wistful and faithful
Tessa, Naomi Kennedey as Florence, and K. Nicholson
as the attractive cad Lewis Dodd had most to do
and did it best. The Lieut.-Gov. and party attended
on the second night.
The Y.A.D.’s, who have kept green the memory
of their wartime service by annual reunions ever
since 1920, gave what will probably be the last of
these shows the other night; it may join forces
with the R.S.L. in future commemorations. There
was a play-reading, in addition to various compe-
titions.
Molly Eady and her energetic young associates,
who have run a canteen for hungry youngsters all
through the winter, finished up with a big bridge
party at the Continental, offering numerous prizes.
Thirty-six tables were occupied, sweets 'were sold and
stockings raffled.
The Philharmonic Soc. devoted the proceeds of
its recent concert to the funds of the Deaf, Dumb
and Blind Institution. The Town Hall was well
filled, the Lieut.-Gov. and his lady being among
the audience. Doreen Bidencope, Mrs. George Thorne,
Lila Harvey and Leo Boyce were the vocal soloists.
David Feirclough (violin) and that popular trio
Mrs. Fred Grant (violin), Allan Mclntyre (’cello)
and George Jackson (piano) were also performers.
The chorus work was specially good.
Princess Melikoff and her mother, Mrs. J. B.
Curran, have taken a flat at Hadley’s.
Alarion Isabel (Alaisie), daughter of the late J.
K. Reid, 1.5.0., and Mrs. Reid, is engaged to the
Rev. W. F. Paton, son of the late Rev. R. Paton
and Airs. Paton, Blackburn, Vic.


Next Weeks “Womans Mirror”
Is the Christmas, Number
Superbly Illustrated - - - - brilliantly Written
Special Features Include:
Page Drawing by C. H. Percival.
Two Intriguing Serials.
Page Drawing by Betty Paterson.
Four Human Short Stories.
A Page of Cheery Mother and Child Photo Studies.
An Extraordinary Nature Story by A. H. Chisholm.
Also Helpful and Engaging Articles By:
Bertha Maxwell, Dorothy Paul, Willowee and Many Others. Holiday-reading
Books, Christmas Cooking, Baby’s Matinee Outfit Free Pattern, Between
Ourselves, and Other Fine Features.
Something In It For Every Woman
A Great Gift Issue Order Extra Copies Early
December 15
• Threepence
• •
• •
Missing Friends.
VT/ILL MRS. HENRY ROWE, formerly
** of Brooks Bay, Tasmania (or any
person knowing of her whereabouts), please
communicate with W. ELLIS COX, Solicitor,
103 Collins Street, Hobart.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To LEONARD JOHN McIvENNA formerly of
Launceston in Tasmania Laborer.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of Eva Wingfield
McKenna for dissolution of her marriage with you
on the grounds of desertion TAKE NOTICE that
unless on or before the Twenty-third day of January
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-two you cause
an appearance to be entered in the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart to answer the said Petition AND unless
you attend at the said Court in person or by your
Solicitor at the hearing of the said Petition the
Court will proceed to hear the said charge proved and
pronounce sentence your absence notwithstanding.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Deputy Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
JAMES EDGAR HERITAGE (Martin and Hobkirk.
Shields and Heritage, Solicitors), of 55 Paterson
Street, Launceston, in Tasmania, Proctor for the
Petitioner.
Use
CUTICURA
For Rashes
Eczema
and All Forms
Itching, Burning
Skin Irritations.
Bathe with
Cuticura Soap
Anoint with
Cnticnra Ointment
Relief comes at once and
healing soon follows.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Sample
each free. Address: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Legal N oticc.
K'LiZA JANE PETTS Deceased.—Pursuant to the
Trustee Act 1925 (Sec. 27). All PERSONS claim-
ing to be ENTITLED to be the NEXT OF IvlN of
ELIZA JANE PETTS late of 32 Queen’s Road Ted-
dington Middlesex England who died on the 23rd
January 1931 and entitled to share in' her estate
are hereby REQUIRED to SEND the PARTICULARS
in writing ■of their CLAIM to US'" the "undersigned
as solicitors for the executors on or before the 30tli
day of January 1932 after which date the said
executors will proceed to distribute the said estate
amongst the persons entitled thereto having regard
only to the claims of which they shall then have
had notice and they will not be liable fpr the said
estate or any part thereof so distributed to any
person or persons of whose claim they shall not then
have had notice.
Dated this 26th day of October, 1931.
SIIERRARD & SONS, 34-36 Gresham Street,
London, E.C. 2, England, Solicitors for the Executors.
NOTE. —It is believed that the said Eliza Jane
Petts had three uncles and one aunt who or whose
issue would probably be her next of kin. Two of
these, viz., James Petts and Alfred Petts. emigrated
to Australia many years ago and adopted the surname
of Jones and both died there.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
There was a splendid roll-up at Moonee
Valley on Saturday, when the V.R.C. staged
a meeting to help the Benevolent Fund.
Sunshine was tempered by a cool breeze, and
even the members’ enclosure was comfortably
filled. Roses here and there made gay the
green lawns. The dressing was mostly. black
and white with some figured silks, crepe de
Chine frocks and a few lightweight ensemble
suits on parade. Millinery was mostly very
simple, though the breeze did flirt with some
plumes hanging from bowler hats. Among
those who chose magpie effects were Mrs.
Ben Chaffey, Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson, Mrs.
R. M. Cuthbertson and Mrs. N. Robinson.
Mrs. J. B. McArthur wore navy chepe de
Chine with a leaf pattern in lime color,
topped by dark-blue georgette coat and
straw hat. Mrs. Challingsworth’s lime-green
suit had a coat faced with black-and-white
striped silk, her small hat being black. The
Lauchlan Mackinnous were there; also Mr.
and Mrs. A. V. Kewney, Mrs. A. V. Hiskens
and her sister Miss Cox and James Purves
and his daughter Valerie, the last-named in
hydrangea-blue ensemble with a white hat.
About 2000 danced on the broad decks of
the Strathnaver on the eve of the liner’s
sailing for Europe; and quite as many
people, including lots of children, formed an
audience on the wharf watching the arrivals
and the evolutions aboard. Rose and blue
electric lights decked the buildings on the
wharf and the ship sported its usual bright
illumination. Lieut.-Governor Irvine stepped
up the gangway to the strains of a
pipe-band and was received by R. G.
Weeks, assistant manager of Macdonald,
Hamilton and Co., Mrs. Weeks, Mrs. Alder-
ton, Mrs. Mackinnon and Capt. B. J. Ohlsen.
For non-dancers there was bridge in the
ornate lounge, but more interest was taken
in the luxurious liner than in the game of
cards. The gathering, which was organised
by Mrs. Lauchlan Mackinnon, was in aid of
the Children’s Hospital, of which she is
president. On the committee were Mrs. Fred
Krcrouse, Mrs. C. S. Cunningham and her
daughter Beverley Jackson, Mrs. Simon
Fraser, Mr. H. Watt (honorary secretary),
Mr. H. Barrett (secretary of the hospital)
and Alistair Mackinnon (ticket secretary).
Dressing was smart, with a preponderance of
frocks. Skirts were flared and long, and white
satin and black lace were the two most favored
materials. Gladys Brunton added a neck-
lace of black and white beads to a gown of
white satin. A floral necklace of artificial
blossoms made its appearance in mauve
and white upon a black frock. Mrs. Sadler
Gill was there with her daughter Mrs.
Fowler, whose pale green attire was topped
by a wreath of autumn-tinted flowers. Mrs.
R. R. Casey, RearWdmiral and Mrs.
Hyde and Lud Mayor Gengoult Smith
were among the dancers. Betty Fairbairn
was in chiffon of palest pink and Nancy
Syme was swathed in purple; Pat Clarke’s
pink lace gown had a sash of strawberry-
colored velvet; Ann Outhwaite was in blue
organdie sprinkled with pink, roses. Pre-
mier Hogan was accompanied by Mrs.
Hogan, who wore a pale green satin gown
with coatee of matching chiffon.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine opened the Jessie
McPherson Community Section of Queen
Victoria Hospital. Knight William McPher-
son, who gave £25,000 towards the project,
made the gift in the name of his late mother :
and a large framed photograph of Mrs.
Jessie McPherson hangs in the entrance
hall. The block includes private, inter-
mediate and public wards. The McPherson
donation paid for the building and furnish-
ing of the private and intermediate sections,
and a Government grant of £19,000 financed
the erection of a kitchen and utility rooms
for the whole huge hospital and a couple
Of public wards. The committee, headed by
Mrs. Norman Brookes, which supervised the
equipment chose Australian-made linoleum,
aluminium ware, furniture and operating-
theatre equipment. In fact, no item pro-
curable in the Commonwealth was imported.
The maternity section of the new block
is most attractive, and there is a sound-
proof nursery with an array of white cots
and blue-ribboned pillows. Sickly infants
have a little room to themselves with devices
for maintaining the right temperatures. On
the opening day there were gorgeous flowers
everywhere, brought by knight McPherson,
Mrs. W. M. Robins and others.
The Lud Mayor launched the R.V.1.8.’s
three-day fair. The weather smiled upon
this undertaking, and the lawn was bordered
with stalls replete with wares of every kind.
By such annual bazaars, within four or five
years, the auxiliary workers have been able
to build and furnish two hostels at a cost of
over £BOOO. At present the efforts of these
women, who have Mrs. J. L. Frost as their
president, bring in about £5OOO a year. The
president of the board, J. L. Carnegie, and
James Angus, a vice-president, thanked the
Mayor, and Mrs. Frost echoed the sentiments
and also thanked her helpers.
Members of the English-Speaking Union
boiled the billy in honor of Dr. Lotus C.
Coffman and Mrs. Coffman. Knight Arthur
Robinson, the president, gave greeting to the
visitors and Sheila Marsden sang, accom-
panied by Eleanor King at the piano. Mrs.
Coffman’s navy blue and grey patterned silk
frock was worn with a black straw hat.
A bridge party was engineered by Mrs.
J. F. Ryan, Mrs. Esmond Downey and Mrs.
J. G. Cotcliett to buy Christmas cheer for
the children of St. Joseph’s Home, Surrey
Hills. About 80 tables were booked at
Myer’s dining-hall, Mrs. Cotcliett swelling
the proceeds with a flower-stall and Mrs. W.
J. Wearne with sales of sweets. Doris
Ryan and Miss M. Foley were the hon. secs.
Stalls with Christmas gifts, posies of
flowers and sweets added to the receipts of
a bridge afternoon at Myer’s for St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital. The auxiliaries of East
and West St. Kilda, under the leadership
of Mrs. W. Vance, organised the party.
Mrs. J. Cato, senior vice-president of the
Melbourne board of the Y.W.C.A., gave a
garden party at her home at Hawthorn on
Saturday to enable some hundreds of the
friends of Jean Stevenson to say good-bye to
that lady on the eve of her departure for
MaOriland. A necklace, a brooch of lapis-
lazuli and a cheque were parting gifts from
the board to their former general secretary.
Ex-students of the Methodist. Ladies’ Col-
lege had a garden party at their old school.
Their president, Mrs. V. G. Anderson, was
hostess, and the principal, the Rev. J. W.
Grove, and Mrs. Grove also extended a
friendly hand to visitors. The afternoon
was passed with chat and music, and there
were speeches.
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Brookes enter-
tained the inter-State tennis-players at
afternoon-tea at their picturesque home at
Frankston on Sunday afternoon. A swim in
the sea. and some tenpis were features of
the gathering. At Kooyong clubhouse on
Saturday night there was a jolly dance
under the auspices of the L.T.A.V.
Dr. Keith Brayton Brown took as life-
partner at the C. of E. Grammar Chapel
Barbara, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J.
A. Williams, of Ellimatta, Merbein. The
church was decked with mauve, pink and
white blossoms, blending with the bouquets
of the pale-green-chiffon-clad bridesmaids.
Shady champagne-colored straw hats banded
with green satin ribbon were worn by the
duo. The bride’s simple gown of ivory satin
with cascades of white tulle veil was set
off with a sheaf of water-lilies. The happy
man is only child of Dr. and Mrs. R. C.
Brown, of St. Kilda.
From out
this Broo-
tliorn picture
looks Mrs.
11. R. Hamer,
whose husband
is one of our
legal lights.
For some
years she has
been on the
committee of
the Que e n
Victoria Hos-
pital. She was
one of the
quartette of
women re-
sponsible for
the very at-
tractive fur-
nishing of the
new Jessie
McPherson
C o m m u nity
Hospital.
At AH Saints’, East St. Kilda, Denise,
only daughter of Major and Mrs. C. D.
Strong, was linked to Geoffrey, youngest son
of the A. Capper Moores, of Armadale.
White satin slightly trained was worn by
the bride, her faintly pink tulle veil being
anchored to a wreath of orange buds. Pene-
lope Stead, the attendant ’maid, wore a
wreath of deep-red roses and was clad in
peach-pink organdie muslin. Guests garnered
afterwards at the Grosvenor, Toorak.
Kathleen, elder daughter of the C. J.
Aherns, of South Yarra, is receiving con-
gratulations on her engagement to Flight-
Lieutenant Frances Maynard Denny, R.A.F.,
only son of Commander and Mrs. Denny,
of Wiltshire, England. The young man was,
A.D.C. to Lord Somers and frequently piloted
Lady Somers’s ’plane.
Betty Paterson is holding a quite-different
art show at Newman’s Gallery, 289 Collins-
street,, from the 16th of this month. In
fact, it will be the only exhibition pf its
kind ever held here, since all the subjects
will be babies of seven or under. The pic-
tured crfeche will be drawn from a dozen
lands; many of the models were picked up
during a visit to Europe.
The gallery girls gave Gladys Moncrieff a
great welcome at the Royal on Saturday,
when Somerville’s “Maid of the Mountains
was revived. The show ended with a stage
piled with flowers, and Miss Moncrieff coming
forth, with a gilded laurel wreath round her
neck and holding a tall staff topped with
masses of water-lilies, to give thanks for the
reception. From a box looked out Dorothy
Brunton and her hubby, her arrival causing
a flutter among the gods. The John Taits
were opposite, and in the box below was a
party that included Mrs. Furze Morrisli and
Mrs. lan MacDonald. Mrs. Harry Emmer-
ton and her niece Miss Mary Emmertou were
in the r.s., also knight Robert Best and
his lady, with their daughters Roberta and
Helene. The Clarence Marriotts, with then-
son and daughter, were in the d.c.
The three daughters of Mr. and Mrs.
E. H. Prockter provided the programme at
the British Music Society’s concert. ’Cellist
Gwen and violinist Marjorie, who have lately
returned from study in Europe, were asso-
ciated with their sister Joyce, a promising
young pianist, and Mrs. Prockter also pro-
vided a couple of accompaniments. The
star item of the evening was Marjorie’s
playing of “Poeme,” by Chausson. The
Boccherini concerto in' B flat was chosen
by Gwen, and the three young musicians put
up a. very good performance of Frank
Bridge’s “Phantasie” trio.
Here is a Brootliorn picture of Mrs. M.
M. Phillips,
wife of the
Master in
Equity, who
was honorary
organiser of
the Rose Day
street collec-
tion on be-
half of the
Free Kinder-
garten, an d
who is at all
times an ener-
getic worker
on behalf of
that institu-
tion. She is
also hon. treas.
of the Lyceum
Club. He r
sister - in-law,
Dr. Marion
Phillips, was
one of Lire
Australians in the House of Commons until
defeated at the recent elections.
At the Music Club’s conversazione hon. sec.
Muriel Campbell reviewed the season and
outlined future activities. Rita Hope and
Katie Liddle, on two pianos, played the
concerto in C major of Bach, and works by
Arnold Bax, Delius and J. Guy Ropartz.
Violet Somerset sang.
Among passengers bound for England in
the Strathnaver is Olive Lett, who has been
spending over a year in Queensland. While
there she was the guest of her brother-m-
-law and sister, Mr. and Mrs. de Burgh Iver,
of Wyaldra, Julia Creek. Miss Lett is a
member of the Folk-dancing Society and is
on the staff of teachers at Cecil Sharn Hall.
Mrs. L. B. Hall launched a show of rag
dolls, created by Mrs. Penleigh Boyd, and
knitted wear, the work of Miss E. Campbell
Il'ogg and Mrs. Gamble. Some very artistic
articles were exhibited, Mrs. Boyd’s dolls
being especially admired.
A note from South Aus.:—
Mrs. E. A. Johnson, patroness of the S.A. branch
of the Young Australia League, entertained at the
Wentworth Liberal Union building a number of those
interested in the Christmas vacation educational trip
to Westralia. The contingent starts from Adelaide
on New Year’s Eve, along with college gi,rls from
the Eastern States. Miss N. Grant Allan will
chaperon the S.A. section.
At the Children’s Hospital fete the substantial
sum of £1132 was raised in an afternoon and
evening. Lady Hore-Ruthven declared the fete open,
and with the. Mayoress (Mrs. C. R. J. Glover) judged
the decorated wards, no mean task, as the most
lovely flowers had been sent from the gardens in
the hills. Duncan ward, which was adjudged the
winner, had a floral scheme all pink, mostly gladioli.
The same afternoon a fete was held in the garden
at Eringa, the residence of the Kidman lady, in
aid of seven charities. Financially this suffered from
the clashing of dates.
Lady Hore-Ruthven attended the annual reunion
of T.B. ex-soldiers at the Diggers’ Club. The usual
Christmas party of the Sailors, Soldiers and Nurses’
Relatives had to be cut out this year owing to lack
of funds; a gift tea is to be substituted.
The. Reception Committee of the English-Speaking
Union welcomed Mr. and Mrs. Clive Carey at the
Piccadilly. Owing to the prevalent ’flu, neither Mrs.
Mellis Napier (president) nor Mrs. Lavington Bony-
thon was present. Mrs. C. R. J. Glover received with
Mr. George McEwin, president of the E.-S.U. The
vocalists were Mrs. S. W. Wainwright, an old pupil
of Mr. Carey, Dr. Ray Newling and Mr. Carey him-
self. Mr. Justice Angas Parsons was among the
speakers. Mrs. Glover wore a black georgette with
floral design in gold; Mrs. Carey was frocked in
black and grey figured chiffon.
The Arts and Crafts Exhibition at the Society
of Arts’ rooms, North-terrace, was well attended.
Mrs. Lionel Hill performed the opening ceremony.
The Lyceum Club held the last of its monthly
luncheons for the season when a lecture. on the
drama was given by Mr. A. E. M. Kirwood. The
speaker, who is a lecturer at the Adelaide University,
visited London last year and his chat was a resume
of the theatres he had attended. Mrs. A. A. Simpson
presided.
Westralia’s wad:—
Costumes turned out by the Shakspeare Club at
its function in National House were a triumph for
skilful fingers. As Katherine, Maud Dingwall was
as grand a queen as Henry VIII. could have wished,
and her acting was a delight. Pat Hannah was
submerged to the chin in Wolsey’s red, and Ethel
Treadgold, who was among the ladies-in-waiting,
sang sweetly. A white-robed and sandalled Sylvia
George had memorised yards of Cassandra’s speeches
for “Trojan Women,” while Norrie John, purple-
clad, had most to do among the group of conquered
damsels. As interludes three of the Pether sisters
and Will Savage provided music. President Mrs.
Le Tessier and see. Maud Dingwall were the gracious
hostesses.
Many young things went to the dance in King’s
Park pavilion. The Sinclair McGibbon and Edmondson
couples did the chaperoning. Nan O’Connor chose a
smart gown of delphinium blue ; rhinestones peppered
Joy Hill’s flush.pinks; Marjorie Calthrop fluttered
chiffons of maple-leaf tonings topped by a gold
velvet coat; twinkling shoulder-straps supported
Helen Cramond’s parchment laces; shrimp-pink
taffetas foamed in Jean Hadley’s wake; Poppie
Salom wore citron-shaded ninon; Yvonne Brinkley’s
cream laces were draped over a blush of shell-pink ;
Dorothy Howe chose green ; Marjorie O’Connor, wine
chiffons.
The Keith Murdochs, of Melbourne, have been pay-
ing us a short visit. Among informal entertainments
was a joint luncheon to Mrs. Murdoch, given by
Mrs. C. P. Smith and Mrs. Henry Greig in the
Karrakatta Club.
Bustles and frilled petticoats and a scattering of
flowered waistcoats rustled into the Karrakatta Club
hall for the Historical Society to put the cork'on
its 1931 activities. The Shenton family aired family
pearls and black taffetas; Mrs. Jim Witbnell dis-
played her shoulders with confidence above blue
brocade; Mrs. Mary Farrelly, with a piece of old
lace upon her white locks, anchored herself near the
quandong jam and cherry wine to speak a word of
propaganda for her pet wheatmeal in the ears of
the hungry and thirsty. Mrs.. Cowan read a paper;
there was a playlet, a reading upon the ritual of
etiquette by Muriel Southern, and some music.
Quadrilles wound up the party.
Margaret Saunders and her pupil Margaret Abbott,
who, after studying abroad, is back under her Perth
teacher’s wing, are running a show of pictures and
Christmas trifles. Among Miss Saunders’s pastels,
oils and water-colors are some attractive bits of
beach and bushland.
Another exhibition is displayed in Orient Building
by Beatrice Derbyshire, Edith Trethowan and J.
Linton, junior. Miss Derbyshire has a group of
etchings and sketches, Miss Trethowan has woodcuts
and Mr. Linton displays his liking for modelling
and unique metal work. He also offers a batch
of oils.
South Perth folk rallied nobly to the Pagoda for
the “Spaghetti Spree” in aid of the funds of the
Guides and Scouts. Among attractive robes was
Edith Barrymore’s white romaine with its green
appliques and scattering of green leaves; Betty
Simpson looked nice in apple-green; Joan Drummond
flew duck-egg laces; Mrs. Cooper’s flame georgettes
were cleverly moulded and flared; Mrs. Bob Dickson
wore jade laces; Joan Stowe chose a low-backed
black gown; Mrs. Charlie Clarke wore coffee laces
and chiffons; Jane Bunning was in beige; Mrs.
Frank Strickland favored black, and Mrs. Fred
Strickland green ninon.


IS YOUR LIFE A
DAILY TORTURE?
Short, sharp stabbing pains in the back when you rise
from bed; real torture to straighten the body after stooping;
you say: “Oh, this terrible backache!” Do you know that the
painful symptoms you complain of are sure signs of dangerous
kidney trouble? Just as a “creaky” door tells you there is
something wrong, so painful, chronic backache, stabbing-like
pains when you bend or move, a constant, “tired-out,” “too-
old” feeling, tells you there is hidden trouble in the body.
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE
OF YOUR PAIN-
Chronic backache is in all probability the start of serious
lumbago, painful rheumatism, or perhaps bladder trouble.
They all point to one thing—kidney trouble. The kidneys
are failing in their action, uric acid poisons or harmful bacteria
are accumulating in the blood, with the result that sensitive
nerves send out their S O S to the brain to ask for help—
that is why you suffer pain. Poisons are being stored up in
the blood, which, lodging in the muscles and joints, are
causing a state of inflammation. Until you prompt the kidneys
to filter out the pain-giving poisons, you cannot hope to be
rid of body and nerve-racking pains.
AAA\\ i i i / / 111 / /\/////////s //•'
KIDNEY AND BLADDER
ler^
\WV"
' m
1
END THAT AGONISING
PAIN TO-DAY.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills have ended chronic pain and
suffering when all else has failed.
Men and women in dreadful pain
for years say “De Witt’s ” ended
that , pain and brought them
health, strength and vigor in a
marvellously short time.
Sufferers from chronic back-
ache—-there is no need to sit in
dreadful pain “wondering” if your
bod y-torturing, brain-racking
trouble can be banished. We are
convinced that, with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills taken
regularly, your suffering will
quickly end. Sold by chemists
everywhere, price 3/6 per box.
CONVINCING TESTIMONY
Mrs. Margaret Cunningham,
of 1, York Place, Rozelle, Sydney
(N.S.W.), says: “For 18 months
I suffered severely from chronic
backache, and could yet no rest
at night. One day I saw in the
newspaper an advertisement con-
cerning De Witt’s Pills , so I
thought I would buy some. Two
bottles were all that was neces-
sary to bring me complete
relief.”
Mrs. L. A. Bulley, 93 Chelten-
ham Road, Burwood (N.S.W.),
says: “I cannot speak too highly
of De Witt’s Pills, as when I
started them for kidney trouble
1 had been ordered an operation
and refused. Then I was recom-
mended to give ‘De Witt's' a fair
trial, which I did and got relief
at once. I am now in perfect
health.” <
Pilgrims to Mecca.
E. J. BRADY’S
RECOLLECTIONS OF A VOYAGE.
RELIGION may be dead in the Occident:
throughout the mystic Orient it is
still a vital force. Among white-
skinned races Christ has become more a
symbol than a reality. To the swarthy
myriads of Malaysia, Mahomet is yet the
authentic mouthpiece of divinity. These are
the most earnestly religious people in the world
to-day. Contrasted with the benevolent if
pessimistic philosophy of Buddh, Maliome-
danism loses in dignity but gains in virility.
■So, at least, I reflected one steamy after-
noon, leaning over the rail of a big Blue
Anchor steamer on what a friendly Chinaman
described as a “two-piecee cool day” in Singa-
pore. It was August of the year 1912, with
the Orient opening its fantastic treasure-
houses and unthinkable ugliness before me.
The Orient is a dream from which I waken
reluctantly. I love Australia; I know it is
the best country in the world. And yet—
Allah shield us from harm! —I would not
dare to remain overlong in Asia, so tight
is the grip it gets upon me. Even as it is
pictures rise up, faint odors are wafted to
me, strange songs echo in my ears, and my
heart seems to draw at its roots as a ship will
tug suddenly at her anchors in response to
some subtle action of the tides.
I had lunched with the doctor, the purser
and the mate. I was to stand beside the
doctor while he passed one thousand five
hundred Hedjaz pilgrims aboard the squat
Blue Funnel tank whose iron plates would
encase that crowded human cargo for weary
weeks across the Indian Ocean and through
the Red Sea to Jeddah, their port of disem-
barkation for Mecca.
Accustomed to a sleek, conventional
Christianity, this sudden revelation of a
religious fervor which dared discomfort and
death because of its Faith came as a sur-
prise. But there was no questioning it.
Here they were packed together on the
wharf below me, fifteen hundred souls, clad
for the most part in rags, freely parting
with their last coin in order to set out on a
pilgrimage of thousands of comfortless miles
towards a distant'shrine which many of them
would never reach. Somebody whispers that,
whatever we may do, they may all go into
quarantine at Camaran, where the Greek
doctors will give the impossible a painless
dispatch. What matter? The road to Mecca
is the road to Paradise! Very few will ever
wear the yellow and fewer still the green
turban, dream of every pious Mussulman,
betokening three pilgrimages to the Holy
Shrine of' Mahomet.. Nathless, Heaven is
certain for those who die by the way.
They will die surely enough—some on
board in a few days, some on the burning
roadway from Jeddah to the Kaaba, before
their anxious lips can press the sacred stone
given by the angel Gabriel to Abraham.
But most will die on the road home, because
it is then that smallpox, plague and cholera
will break out among them from close herding
and hard living.
Still, each year they go down in their
thousands to the shrine.
Before the mustering on board they were
all ordered ashore. I watched them going in
a quiet yellow procession before lunch.
Women and babies -to the number of 280
are crowded together inside the barrier, the
men outside. It is a decorous, quiet, impres-
sive Asiatic crowd.
We have taken up our positions and the
women are told to come aboard first. They
mount steeply in Indian file —old and ugly
for the most part, but now and then a beauti-
ful Oriental face makes startling contrast. A
stout Siamese bos’n stands at the head of
the gangway and tallies his human cargo
home in Malay: “Sata. .. .dua... .tiga. .. .
ampat... .lima... .anam, tujoh, lapan, scm-
bilan, sa-paloh!” He touches each pilgrim
on the shoulder as he calls a number. When
he reaches. sa-puloh, the procession is halted
for a moment to see if all have passed the
doctor. Then the tally begins again— “Sata,
dua , tiga” ....
The ship’s doctor stands one side in the
narrow alleyway, with the port health officer
opposite him against the rail. The port doctor
puts out a hand, stops a middle-aged pilgrim
and bids him stand beside me.
“Sa-puloh!” The bos’n awaits his signal
to begin on the next ten, and in that moment-
ary quietness I hear one medical man call
to the other:
“Leper !”
I confess to a sudden shifting of posi-
tion and a quick development of horrified
interest in my neighbor. Only the doctor
smiles. “You are new to the East,” he says;
“you will soon get used to it. In any case
he is not in the contagious stage, as far as
I can know. See?” He points to whitish
patches on face, forehead and neck, unmis-
takable signs.
It is explained to the unfortunate that
he cannot be allowed to ship with the
others. In all my experience of life’s tragedy,
never have I seen such disappointment and
grief on any human face. Nevertheless “God
is great, and Mahomet is His Prophet!”
The doctor chats on about leprosy. He
says cancer is rare in Singapore; in fact,
throughout Malaysia generally. He informs
me that elephantiasis is infectious, and goes
on to talk about Australia.
The leper still stands beside him, touch-
ing him, imploring.
The pilgrims are aboard now, happy to
have passed the doctor, each with a return
ticket printed in Arabic and English. Tiie
brokers who . contract with shipping com-
panies for pilgrims’ passages, gold buttons
on their white coats and good European
shoes to their feet, stand about smiling
benignly. One sees an Australian edition
of this smile on the faces of middlemen at
Flemington stock saleyards when there are
heavy pennings and prices are satisfactory.
The saffron-skinned youths, the Tamil wharf-
laborers, the tiny Malay babies, the Chinese
under their improvised booths of matting
selling provisions to the pilgrims—these* also
are happy. Only on the face of the leper
is misery, and on that of a woman pilgrim
in the last stages of consumption who has
been rejected by the Chinese lady doctor.
Out of all this Malayan-Asiatic scene, its
symphonies, its discords, its riot of color
and form, its sordid realities, underrun by
constant currents of mystery, I can remem-
ber best the faces of those two unhappy
rejects. Allah only knew what privations
they had undergone, what denials of poor
food and raiment they had compassed, - what
hours of drudgery they had performed to
hoard up, cent by cent, dollar by dollar, the
fifteen pounds passage money. Ah! tuose
tickets printed in Arabic and. English which
in the. eyes of the Mahomedan poor are as
passports to Paradise! Allah only knew
how long the days, had been, lightened only
by constant hope of at last setting forth
upon that blessed road to Mecca! Now,
out of 1500, these two, with Death’s certain
mark upon them, sat with bowed heads in
the black shadow of the ship! Grief, the
quiet, tearless, terrible grief of Asia, spoke
in every line of their huddled forms. And
their sorrow to me was all the more dreadful
for the quiet joyousness of the 1498 beati-
fied, who, crowding every conceivable corner
of that Blue Funnel tank, had already kissed
in ecstasy of devout imagination the black
stone which Gabriel presented to Abraham,
the black stone of the Ivaaba in Mecca,
which is the birthplace of Mahomet, the
Prophet of Allah, of Allah the All-Powerful!
Widowed.
That house is widowed on the hill.
The woman there, she doesn’t care—
Puts lipstick to her smooth mouth still,
And water-waves her yellow hair.
But where the'old man used to go—
This is a widowed house I know.
The path he swept at dawning lies
Under a ruffle of dry leaves;
The windows stare like tortured eyes;
The vine, torn from its staple, grieves;
The rose, unwatered, droops its head
As though reproachful of , the dead.
They took him, in a hearse of black.
No plumes, for plumes cost money too;
His dog ran forwards, and then back....
So little and so much to do,
Thinking “This is the time he comes
To bud the young chrysanthemums.”
It whimpered at the open gate,
,And then it went, like, some pale curse,
Or like a sure, unhappy fate, -
Running behind the ; < jolting hearse ;
Aping .the pose. of heart-that-bleeds,
The woman followed in'her weeds. „
Just once the dun* dog turned and. growled,
* Because she leaned to pat* its "head ;;
The silken poppies, scarlet-cowled, '.
‘ Brewed slumber-wine. But he was dead,
The gardener who smiled to see
Those cunning traps laid for the bee.
I used ,to hear him tinkering.
• A loosened board he 'firmly nailed,
Or oiled a hinge that creaked a-swing,
, Reslotted there a bolt that failed.
The garden he claimed from the wild;
The house to him was wife and child.
Bald head, old shoes, old hat and coat,
At sunset with a watering-can
He’d turn towards his home and gloat,
The whole ambition of the man,
Built from his savings, plank by plank,
A roof, a fence, a water-tank.
The doors are all set wide to-day;
The blinds are up, the woman wears
A modish gown of silvery grey,
And once again the mute house bears
The signs of hope that friends may pass
For tea and toast across the grass.
But though it dress itself for life,
That house is widowed; he who went,
A quiet man, avoiding strife,
With flowers and trees and dog content,
Has left his mark for ever more
Like crape hung on a close-barred door.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
In Coelo Quies.
I saw him last when some three weeks ago
We met beyond the red hill’s windy brow,
His two lean half-breeds sweating in the
plough
With heaving flanks, spelled while we
yarned. Below
A few starved ewes trailed feebly to and fro.
Green feed was scarce, he said, and asked
me how
My own stock fared —things were so bad
just now.
“You’ve travelled hard; that mare’s knocked
out. I know—■
Come down and have some tucker.” As we
went
He talked of crops and prices.... of the
place. ...,
He’d own it after three instalments more.
The price was stiff ? Too right! But pay-
ing rent
Was a mug’s game.... And then his dusty
face
Softened: his young wife met us at the door.
(God help them both!) Her tired eyes
seemed to stray
Past us, unseeing, as with both arms she
pressed
A whimpering baby to her narrow breast.
Listlessly, then, she asked if I would stay;
“Arthur so seldom gets a holiday.
I’m glad you came—he simply will not
rest!”
And though in truth I was a welcome
guest
Grey thoughts rode with me when I rode
away....
Death found, him toiling. How? I hardly
know;
They say it was the wind-borne death
which sweeps
Down from the tall trees when the gales
are* high
His place goes up for sale next month; and
though
Few may have prized him save the wife
who weeps,
I find it hard that one like this should
die.
TASMANIA.
ERIC MOORE.


&
EDGAR
WALLACE.
A noted
Pelmanist.
MR. EDGAR WALLACE.
“I have found Pelinanism,” Mr.
Edgar Wallace writes, “the most
useful method for the organisation
of thought .... The power of con-
centration is not so much a gift as an
acquirement, and the ability to con-
centrate on the job one has in hand is
not only assisted, but could be
created by a study of the Pelman
Method. To students of all ages it
seems to- me to be indispensable.
It is the machine-tool of thought.”
SIR HERBERT AUSTIN.
Sir Herbert Austin, Chairman of
the world famous Austin Motor Co.,
Ltd., writes: “The job for every one
of us is first to fit ourselves for better
things and then to go out after
them.... Here it is that Pelinanism
is proving of immense help to-day.
....Too many people are just drift-
ing. Pelmanism can stop that drift-
ing and start the drifter on a useful
journey.”
DR. F. W. NORWOOD, D.D.
“Pelmanism,” Dr. Norwood, of the
City Temple, London, says, “is sound
Psychology -and an admirable 'system
of Mind-training. It reduces to a
coherent system what every person
who lives intelligently and strongly
must, at. least partly carve out for
himself.... A proper grasp of Pelman-
ism would save any life from futility
and would cause many to discover
powers latent within themselves of
the existence of which they had not
dreamed. Pelmanism teaches that
man has the key to his own career
and enables many to find the key
itself which, for want of self-know-
ledge, had lain undiscovered.”
In “The Efficient Mind” there
are opinions of Pelmanism by
many other well-known people.
DR. T. W.
NORWOOD,
D.B.
——
A noted
Pelmanist.
fQjb.
MEN for 1932
Ordinary, plain men who have work to do, know how
to do it, and have developed certain personal attributes
and qualities, may face 1932 without misgivings.
Peimanism is concerned with these personal
attributes and qualities, which are fundamental.
They may be sleeping or only partly
developed, but they are in every normal
individual. Peimanism develops them, sepa-
rately and together, so that amongst other
things concentration is made easier by quick-
ened perceptions; natural energy enormously
increased by interest, and prompt decision
justified by soundness of judgment.
Amongst these attributes and qualities are:-
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will-Power
Initiative
Self-Confidence
Presence of Mind
Organising Power
Courage
Cheerfulness
And a Reliable Memory.
The development of these strong, positive,
vital qualities contributes to one’s earning
capacity, makes for security, and so makes it
possible to live “intelligently and strongly.”
The Kind of People who take the Pelman Course
There is only one type of man who takes the Pelman Course, but he is found in every calling
and in every walk of life. He is the man who wants to excel, who will not be deterred by
circumstances, who will live intelligently and strongly, the man reach out and take the
good things that every age and every occupation offer to him who has the wit and courage to
take them.
The above paragraph appeared in “The Bulletin” of November 18—above another set of letters. If we
took the whole of this space every issue for 12 months and filled it, in the smallest print, with nothing
but letters from appreciative Pelmanists, we would publish not even a tenth ot the letters we have.
A MEDICAL PRACTITIONER writes: —“Last week I
took the chair at the annual meeting of the Medical
Association, and attribute confidence in myself to Lesson
4 of your Course.”
AN ASSESSOR writes‘Relating to Lesson 9, I am
pleased to be able to report considerable progress in iny
conversational efforts, which are now a pleasure and relaxa-
tion, instead of an embarrassment.”
A COMMERCIAL ARTIST writes: —“The Course has
been so interesting and helpful. I have received a great
improvement in my power of observation, and have a feel-
ing of keenness for my work.”
A CLERK writes:—“l have increased my income by
50 per cent., and have got a step further in my aim. But.
tlio general benefits —the feeling of well-being I appreciate
far more than the purely financial progress.”
A TEACHER writes: —“The other night I was suddenly
called upon to speak at a meeting. I found that 1 did the
job much better than I expected, and with very little self-
consciousness. That is the result of the Exercises, in that
I am thinking more of what I have to say than of myself.
I have noticed a great improvement in self-control.”
A CONTRACTOR writes:—“Lesson 6 has been a revela-
tion to me. and I can see clearly the inefficiency of an
untidy mind.”
A STENOGRAPHER w T rites: —“The whole Course is
such a sane, well -balanced training that one cannot fail to
respect and appreciate it.”
A MECHANIC writes: —“Now that the Course is finished
as f ar as the Work Sheets are concerned —I must tell
you that 1 am more than satisfied with it. I am vastly
improved as far as my work is concerned, mainly because
I am taking an interest in it.”
A JOURNALIST writes: — “I have derived wonderful
benefit from the Course. Since discontinuing the formal
lessons I have studied the Course with renewed interest
anil a greater understanding. I have come to regard each
of the volumes as a treasure in itself, capable of producing
a mental grasp and alertness which at my age I would
never have thought possible. In my work I have improved
in speed and in general efficiency to a remarkable degree,
whilst in my leisure hours literature has become a new
and fascinating study.”
A LAW CLERK writes:—“My taking the Course was
one of the wisest things I have yet done. The benefits I
have derived are very numerous. I derived a great deal
of general benefit and better health.”
V COURT REPORTER writes: —“Pelmanism has influ-
enced my life in a subtle manner. After alternate hopes
and disappointments, ideas and mental grip are coming to
me with a rush. I am fast recovering all my enthusiasm
and zest for life.”
A BANK OFFICIAL w'rites: —“I find that I have bene-
fited far beyond my expectations in concentration, logic
and self-confidence, In accuracy, keenness, definition of
aim. peace of mind and sociability, I have made great
strides.”
A LAW CLERK writes: —“With the aid of Pelmanism
I passed mv terms in three subjects, and passed in Juris-
prudence and Constitutional History in the degree. Besides
exams., I have found Pelmanism helpful to me in every
way. From the time I started the Course I began to learn
and see things which I had hitherto thought had scarcely
existed.”
A MEMBER OF THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL writes:
—“There was a fear in my mind that I was drifting, and
was getting past the time when I could settle down and
study without positively driving myself, and that feeling
has been dispelled.”
A CABINETMAKER writes:—“l have strengthened my
confidence, and been assisted in overcoming a shy and
reserved nature. I realise that every day I am showing
some improvement.”
A BAKER writes:—“You have given me the straightest
go I have ever had.”
You are sure to be inter-
ested in at least one of the
people who, in “The Efficient
Mind,” speak highly of Pel-
manism from practical experi-
ence. It may be a prominent
personality who has captured
your imagination or it may
be a neighbor who has earned
your respect. Get a copy of
“The Efficient Mind” now —
write at once.
“The Efficient Mind”
The Pelrnan Course of Training is fully described in “The Efficient Mind; which contains 76 pages of
matter and illustrations of very great interest. Copies are posted free. Call or write for one. Inquiries
are regarded as confidential communications. The Pelrnan Institute has no outdoor representatives.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
Headquarters: LONDON. for the Scientific Development Oj Mina,
Branches throughout Memory and Personality. • ’ Pelmanists.
the Q L Q UC £S T £ R HOUSE, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
(Corner of Market Street.)
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
Pelmanism may be mastered by giving to it 20
or 30 minutes a day for about three months.
There are twelve lessons in the course. It is
Intensely interesting, and the results begin to
show within a week. It is taught by post.
To the Secretary, THE P ELM AN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House. 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send your jree book, “The Efficient Mind.” In asking for it I incur no obligation.
NAME
POSTAL ADDRESS - •
310
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GR.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from ......
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas — l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
lb
P cl t u
0
0°
V M<
S e V*
1»
%
*\o
•lO**,
0>
\i e
s'
-v>
oAo
s»V N ‘. *
9
C'‘
•s
**♦


0 the first-choice tyre costs
no more, there’s not much
point in buying the second-choice
tyre, is there? Well, Goodyear
Tyres cost no more! And, as for
being first-choice, they’re that by
millions - more - sold every year.
’’More people ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.”
You owe it to yourself to know
the reasons why Goodyear Tyres
lead all others so greatly. They
are the very reasons that
should prompt you also to
decide ’’l will buy only
y( leading make of tyre!”
B;i
:. ' v
ik ;
Mi®:-
IttEH:
;ri
rHrH
a as
Utt
m
±t±ttts±t±
ia±
m
SBI
1:
mm
XiX.. . -
L : aSS^.atlfiXg£
■U-fH-rH- s-t-wU I.^:.i l ..4;.uU-
ttt
ixut
at;
mil
til
irr.
m
fctmta+
-
Lt 1
i ; ;
mm
mm
lU-fn j 1 ) LI.L.U.L
m
&
f-y,
® ■■ m
■ft
¥
mm
mm
m
y>9:
m
F
m
xJM
:s;r«ur~
I”'™”-
l|g
‘s»* , * M, ****"* — **
>/v
LVv. *
>«sss
&!&
S^-assas
v> 'vt;
;> .vv^
T', 1 ■
v- 4 '■■ ■
v
MADE
AUSTRALIA
C 14-5
TWO REASONS
Why Goodyear is the
Leading Make of Tyre:
The famous Good-
year All - Weather
Tread is superior in
traction. Note how the
deep-cut tight-gripping
blocks are placed in the
centre of the tread,
where they belong. Press
the palm of your hand
upon this tread and feel
how the blocks grip and
pinch the flesh. This
illustrates the All-
Weather Tread's hold-
fast action on city streets
or country roads.
The Goodyear Super-
twist Cord Carcass is
superior in vitality and
long life. Under
continued flexing
f- - or sudden road-
shock, where ordinary
cords fatigue or snap,
the extra-elastic Super-
twist Cords stretch and
recover, like rubber
bands. Ask your Good-
year Dealer to show you
on his cord-testing ma-
chine the extra stretch —
up to 61% greateg- — of
“P viyo greater— oj
Supertwist Cord over the
cord used in other
tyres.
