

n
9
'hi/
$
m
m
m
COPYRIGHT
/y FT US INTRODUCE to you —Bennie Rabbit, the
Little Luck-bringer! To carry one rabbit’s foot is lucky enough,
but, remember, Bennie has four. So, when you want things to
go right, don’t bother to “touch wood.” Just say: “BENNIE!”
and you’ll be quite safe. Bennie’s job in Hfe is to remind all
good Australians to buy and wear AKUBRA good Australian-made
Hats. Resolve to ask, next time, for a High Quality Akubra at 25/“ or
a Sup er Quality Akubra at 30/- Either would be a lucky choice
bk
£ i.
I'&fl
l’;V}
*iV;Y\a-*.V5v
,- v ,v-:
TO
-•>
The Bulletin
4m OIU ?-~iPaM. 8.
Vol. 52.—N0. 2669.
Wednesday, April 8, 1931.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


YV7RITE for Dymock’s Library Catalogue,
** and lists on all subjects, which will
be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
nil
u22*
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Rame
My Address ..
S.B. 331
JLYSAGHT7
3
O
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
OLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
ď
UNEXPECTED
GUESTS
Host Holbrook Says:
“A few drops
of my Worcest-
ershire Sauce
served with the
cold joint en-
sure an appetis-
ing meal for the
unexpected
guests.”
i YV<
r
H
»
'-mm
LIFE INSURANCE
Is the most effective instrument ever
devised by human intelligence for the
promotion of industry, saving, character
and happiness.
Insure Your Life with
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ASSETS £78,500,000
A MUTUAL institution where the whole of the available surplus
is divided ANNUALLY amongst the participating members.
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
F. T. .BRIDGES,
General Manager.
Offices in the leading Country towns, and field representatives in all Districts.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
for
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR M S.W.:
ALLEN-LIVERSIDGE, LTD., Hutchison Street, Annandale.
BRANDTS, LTD., 135 Sussex Street, Sydney.
GARDNER-WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD., 225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS, LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Horror!
Turning himself lyrically into a mammoth,
Arnold Wall lately trumpeted:—
Now I am made
A child of shame;
Picture palace-and Sunday editions and sales of hose
Have stolen my name.
What has happened to “mammoth” has
happened to that other good word “horror,”
so that the term “horror fiction” is usually
meaningless, or means something else. But
at times, even in the lighter leaves of this
branch of fiction, “horror” can be applied
with some ring of truth. An instance is
Murder Gone Mad, by Philip Macdonald
(Collins; 7s. 6d. net). The murders here are
no mere symbols. They are sufficiently
horrible to horrify, but they are more than
that. Ey the neat trick of stirring affection
for the murdered, Macdonald makes the
brutalities personal. A question is, does the
reader of “horror fiction” want that sort of
thing? Does he not prefer the symbol,
distant and impersonal, to the visible
reality? However, even if he does, Mac-
donald makes it up to him by having his
police agents and methods melodramatic
enough, and then salves his own conscience
by getting back to something like reality in
the closing, and pretty convincing, picture
of a lunatic in the act of murder. The
novel is doubtless pure ephemera, not to be
compared with the same writer’s “Patrol,”
but it merits mention here for being such
an outstanding book of its kind. Another
that goes well with it—good light reading,
with a murder motive —is Mrs. Belloc
Lowndes’s Leity Lynton (Heinemann;
7s. 6d. net), which has already been reported
on in “Satchel.”
More Horror
A better attempt at giving the horror
public something it might not want is
made in Green Lane, or Murder at Moat
Farm, by Alec Brown (Cape; Roy croft;
7s. 6d. net). It is much better literature
than either of those others. There is noth-
ing melodramatic about it. It is downright
realism. Its principal defect is the obvious-
ness of the pains taken by the author to
make it as sordid and earthy as possible.
The corpse of the murdered loose girl is
presented in horrific detail, and any crude-
ness in the lives of the village and farm-
hands that offers itself is duly worked in.
But it is not the nature nor the presentation
of the murder that lifts the novel above the
thriller ranks. The true theme is how
gossip works in a backward English country
community. That has often been played
upon by fiction-writers, but seldom sp
mercilessly as it is here. The novel is a
most savage and convincing presentation of
morbid provincialism.
Yet More Horror
The horror of “Green Lane” is of the earth
earthy. It is yet another shade of horror
which pervades Christine, by Julian Green
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d. net). Green is one of
the world’s few writers to have done what •
Conrad did—transported himself into a
foreign language and made a job of it.
An American, be writes in French. He deals
almost exclusively with neuroticism. His
first novel, “A Closed Garden,” was one
of the most, haunting things of the kind
that I have read. That novel was Julian
Green’s own; the stories of Christine belong
more to Edgar Allan Poe. There is the Poe
nervousness, and nerviness, of manner; the
Poe selection in observation; the quick
haste onward. Poe’s special brand of eeri-
ness comes to life again in the title-story
and others, and there is about it all Poe’s
kind of half-statement, which leaves the
reader, if he is a material soul, to puzzle
his brains over a material solution, or, if
he is inclined the other way, to fall into
easy acceptance of the supernatural at work.
“Leviathan” is no more than an impres-
sion, but it is sure and clean. There are
master passages in the rather long story,
“The Iveys of Death,” and the silences of
“Christine” are haunted places. I make no
pick. It is a toss up among them.
Benito, It Duce!
Another piece of writing vibrant with
eager nervousness is II Duce: The Life and
Work of Benito Mussolini, translated by
Magda Vamos from the Hungarian of L.
Ivemechey (Williams and Norgate; Dy-
mocks; 18s.). It should be read, I think,
not only by those whom the informative
promise of the title attracts. Its author is
dead—one of the “tragically derailed” gen-
eration that the war killed and is killing.
His book belongs to the pictorial kind of
biography. Musso-
lini is not presented
as a story; he
emerges from a
series of connected
pictures. To his
biographer, at least,
I .his son of a smith is a tremendous hero.
Hence his boyhood—that usually least satis-
factory part of biography—is amusingly
averdone.
There are still living in Forli [Benito’s birth-
dace] two men-—the brothers Fanri—who are proud
o remember that they were among the children
if the village to whom Mussolini dealt out his
hrashings with the greatest thoroughness.
But, after some kneeling on corn until his
knees bled as a school punishment, boyhood
is soon over. Then off to Switzerland with
i few pence in his pockets; hod-carrying
for 11 hours a day (“A hundred and twenty-
one times that day I went up to the second
floor, a hod of stones on my shoulder”);
smoky meetings among Russian revolution-
aries; France; Italy again; the King’s Army
(“Mussolini was the best in gymnastics, the
first in running, and not to be beaten in
the high jump”—and these things mat-
tered) ; then revolutionary journalism and
gaol; eventually into the army again, as a
fighting soldier. “Fighting” is the book’s
keynote. Benito, from boyhood up, has
been an all-in scrapper. There is no sticking
of a prominent jaw into the surrounding
atmosphere and bluffing through with a
mixture of braying and lying, after the Aus-
tralian pattern, about Benito. At the war
his body is tattooed with wounds—forty-
two of them. He is carried on to the oper-
ating table unconscious. But he beats
even that. The rest is fairly well known,
though it is a refreshing experience to read
it again as it is set out here.
Of Liberty
In II Luce it is, of course, asserted that
Mussolini is a liberator of mankind, a claim
advanced on behalf of all Governments,
dictatorial and otherwise. Some pertinent
inquiry into its general application is made
by Everett Dean Martin in his just-pub-
lished Liberty (Routledge; 10s. 6d. net).
His range and findings are particular to
America, but it is only necessary to alter
a name here and there to bring most of the
world under his survey. Here is a patch of
his observation:—
Most of the great illiberal movements which now
torment us have had their victory, and many their
origin as well, during the last decade. For instance,
militarism has vastly increased. To-day it is a
disgrace to be a pacifist in the United States. Pro-
hibition is another fruit of these last ten years.
We have witnessed in Massachusetts the execution
of Sacco and Vanzetti, the tragic result of conflict
between radical and conservative mob movements.
More recently a similar conflict in a southern State
makes mockery of both civilisation and our inherited
liberties. Fundamentalism has grown stronger
during this decade, and religious bigotry has again
raised its ugly head among us. It is altogether
conceivable that the fundamentalist, anti-evolution
mania may in the next ten years achieve a victory
in America similar to that which prohibition has
achieved during the last ten. The same people
are behind both movements, the same religious fan-
aticism has inspired them both, and there is no
assurance at all that we shall not have another
amendment to the Constitution forbidding Darwinism.
He believes that the enemy of liberty to-
day is the crowd itself: watching its be-
havior one would think that the great
liberators of human history had never lived.
There is a myth that the rank and file of
humanity, acting as a mass, want liberty. There
is a legend that it is they who have achieved
what liberties we have, that all that has made for
luman progress has been won by great, nation-wide,
spontaneous uprisings of the people. Is this legend
based on fact? Historically, it is not.
Finally, mass behavior is essentially conservative.
::t resents variation and nonconforriiity. There is a
tendency on the part of everybody to try to reduce
everybody else to an automaton. The crowd governs
not by reason, but by the force of taboo, which is
more valid to-day than was the ancient tribal taboo.
Even the idea of liberty itself has become taboo.
Personally, I doubt whether anyone who
has looked deeper than the surface of Aus-
tralian life will deny that that applies with
equal force here. Indeed, if this writer had
cared to glance in our direction he would
have found, in the illiberality which is not
merely incidental to our Labor organisation
but the very woof' and weave of it, an
example of the strangling of liberty beside
which his star examples are mere guttering
candles. Again, the name of liberty must
always be a byword in a country which
taboos books—literary and political—on the
scale and with the ignorance that Aus-
Red Page.
Admiral Bligh
Never yet have the remains of any
notable figure of early Australia been more
thoroughly or fairly examined than those
of that truculent “Cousin Jack” William
Bligh have been by George Mackaness,
whose Life of Admiral Bligh has just been
published by Angus and Robertson in two
large vols. at 50s. the set.
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —When Anthony Horderns? say a thing you know it is true.
Amuqny Horderns
are Sole Agents in N.S.W. for
Planet Jnr.
Farm and Garden Implements
Anthony Horderns’ have purchased from the Farmers’ Implement Co., Limited, the entire stock of
Planet Junior Farm and Garden implements.
The items comprise Hand Cultivators, Seed Drills, Horse Cultivators for one or two horses, and a full
assortment of duplicate parts.
Under the present tariff horse cultivators are a prohibited import, so you would be well advised to
secure one of these great time- and labor-savers now.
511/548.
:-V
211/548. —No. 25 Hill and Drill Seeder, Double-
and Single-wheel Hoe combined. The No. 25 plants
all vegetable seeds like the No. 4, but includes the
double- as well as the single-wheel hoe, enabling
the gardener to straddle the rows until the plants
are 20in. high, cultivating both sides at one time.
Equipment includes a pair of garden ploughs, four
steel cultivating teeth, one pair of 6in. hoes and
leaflifter.
Price £6
n
211/649.
211/549. No. 4 Hill and Drill Seeder and Single-
wheel Hoe combined. For the home or the small
market gardener. The No. 4 plants practically all
vegetable seed, the index is accurate, the hopper
holds 2\ quarts. Cultivating attachments: Large
garden plough, three steel cultivator teeth, one
pair 6in. hoes, one leaflifter.
Price £4/17/6
211/538.
211/538. —No. 41 Planet Junior Orchard and
Universal Cultivator is built to combine strength,
lightness, adjustability and efficiency to the fullest
extent in one tool. The steel wheels are low and
entirely enclosed by the frame; they are adjustable
30in. to 40in. apart. Cut shows machine with
two-tooth extensions. Regular equipment: 11,
2\ x 1 Oin. steels. Wheel adjustments, 30in. to
40in. No. 41, with two-tooth extensions. Width of
cut 6ft. 6in. Packed weight 4741 b,
Price £25
No. 4 ID. Without extensions. Width of cut 4ft.
Packed weight 3841 b.
Price £22
211/551
The No. 90 expands to 32in. and contracts to 12in.
No matter how many more hoes you may have, a No. 90
12-tooth harrow will pay for itself the first season.
Price £5/12/6
Without pulveriser. Price £5
211/537
Think of the saving made in cultivating perfectly
two rows of potatoes, beans, corn or any crop
planted in rows not over 44in. apart at a single
passage. This means double work at a single cost,
for the arrangement of the 14 teeth is such that
all the ground is w’ell tilled and no open furrows
are left next to the row, while ONE MAN attends
easily to the work WITH ONE TEAM. The tool
is especially intended for working crops often at
a moderate depth. For extra deep work or for
heavy soil we sell a four-horse hitch. For hilling
and ploughing the last time, the ploughs followed
by cultivator teeth give fine results. For shallow
surface work two pairs 1 Oin. hoe steels (with
special standards) and 1 0 sweeps make a fine mulch.
Price £3O
(Agricultural Implements, Fourth Floor. Free
Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
Use Our “D.P.S.”
If more convenient u»e our Deposit-Purchase
System. SiYnply leave a deposit, and pay the
balance in convenient instalments. You pay no
interest or extra charge whatever.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd., Sydney.
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night,
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, OP.O.
211/551. —No. 11 Double- and Single-wheel Hoe.
The No. 11 is a very complete tool for the home
or market gardener. The 6in. and hoes are
the greatest weed-killers known; the cultivator
teeth give thorough cultivation; ploughs are used
for opening and closing furrows, hilling up plants,
etc. As with the double-wheel hoe, the gardener
can straddle the row until the plants are 20in. high,
cultivating both sides at one time. Equipment:
Pair of 6in. hoes, pair of hoes,- four steel
cultivator teeth, pair of ploughs, 3-tooth and two
5-tooth rakes, pair of leaflifters. . £3/17/6
211/553. —No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator com-
bined. The Planet Junior No. 8 Horse Hoe and
Cultivator is one of the most valuable time- and
labor-saving tools available for the use of the
farmer. Has a steel wheel that does not clog; a
frame that is longer and higher than others; steel
standards that are so attached as to both brace
the oultivator and withstand strain; levers that
operate quickly and easily; a depth regulator.
Equipment includes four 3in. x Bin. cultivator
steels, one 4in. x Bin. cultivator steel, two 6in.
hillers, one 7in. shovel, all especially hardened;
will give long service. Price £5/12/6
No. / Horse Hoe and Cultivator, same as No. 8
but without depth gauge. Price £5/7/6
211/665.
211/665. —The No. 220 will distribute fertiliser in
the middles of three rows 12in. to Min. apart; it
will side-dress one side each of two rows up to
36in. apart (one complete row), and corn in wider
rows. You can use it in 45in. to 48in. rows
by closing off the flow in three spouts and dis-
tributing through the other three, either on the
right- or left-hand side. The No. 220 spreads
fertiliser from 4in. to 30in. on the ground. The
hopper capacity is one bushel. It will distribute
100 to 2000 pounds of commercial fertiliser to the
acre.
Price
£B/10/-


Does your mirror say:
ruin -
■Jcwn
Read how others succeeded in building up
their health again by taking Sanatogen.
. . . I was beginning to get mentally
flabby, to hate the very thought of
work, when I struck Sanatogen.
For the first week I perceived no
difference, but from the end of the
second week I began to pick up.
Since then I have gained strength
rapidly.”
MR. EDGAR N. DUFFIELD, of “Golfing.”
“. . . . My husband used to come
home from work utterly tired out —
sometimes too tired to eat. Now,
after taking Sanatogen, he is ever so
much brighter in himself. Even after
the first dose of Sanatogen he noticed
the difference. He is not nearly so
tired —and his appetite has certainly
increased.”
MRS. M. O. EASTERBROOK, BECKENHAM.
ft
i
'///
i
4
\\
Revitalize your nerves
with
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food
Take Sanatogen to build up a
reserve of bodily and nervous
strength ! Take Sanatogen, and
you will forget what nerve weak-
ness means for it will restore
you to sound, lasting health.
Sanatogen provides the muscles,
nerves and blood with exactly
the right proportion of glycero-
phosphate and albumin that the
run-down system needs. Sanatogen
gives you new strength and vitality
to conquer all forms of nerve
weakness: loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness and general debility.
More than 24,000 physicians all
over the world have written
recommending Sanatogen as an
ideal nerve - strengthening food.
Why then should you not give
Sanatogen a trial ?
Go to you r
Chemist to-day.
d
He sells
Sanatogen
ANATOGEN will do you good. It will do good to the whole of your family.
Sanatogen builds healthy, happy home life by conquering nervousness.


is to-day the Mecca of a multitude who select these lovely
A Isles for their vacation visit. Tropic glory here meets its fullness.
The waters of Waikiki dance in the cool trade-winds. . . . Ever-verdant
vistas which extend from sea to sky are resplendent with a gorgeous
ensemble of colour. Smart hotels scintillate with the sparkle of the
social season.
The cool delight of a climate even in Summer, has had much to do
with establishing the popularity of Hawaii. ... Comfort comes with
the sailing ot ocean liners from your home port. ... Excellent service
makes the short sea trip an epoch of delight ... an unforgettable
approach to an ever to be remembered sojourn in a magic tropic land.
Call on your nearest Booking Agents,
or write us for literature.
r—1931
Dept.
17.
Tourist Bureau
Box 1627 88,
G.P.0., Sydney,
There is no hero worship—though readers
cannot arrive at any other conclusion than
that the subject was a heroic one—except
in a sentence at the end:-
When coming years sum up the comparative merits
of our early Governors, Bligh’s name will be
bracketed with those of Phillip, Macquarie and
Bourke, all men who never turned their . backs,
but marched straight forward.
Two incidents have colored the_whole of
Bligh’s life—the mutiny in the Bounty and
the rebellion against his government of
New South Wales—so that to most people
he is chiefly notable for having been turned
out *of office on two occasions by very
emphatic and forcible votes of censure.
But there is much more in it than that.
Captain Cook’s trusted navigating officer,
the dauntless seaman who steered an open
boat through 3600 miles of unknown ocean
and six weeks of starvation, making a record
that has never been approached, the Admi-
ralty’s trusted agent during the mutiny at
the Nore, and one of Nelson’s honored
captains—what he did in these capacities
wipes out all the wrong that he may have
done himself in the eastern Pacific and be-
side Port Jackson. In an age of great
seamen he was a very great one. There is
no question of that, and Mr. Mackaness
shows us that greatness of character, as well
as of seamanship, was his. He could damn
his men’s eyes as freely as he damned his
officers’, and could rule them with a rod of
iron; but he was scrupulously fair to them
in things that mattered, often very kind,
and he never lied to or cheated them. It is
not possible to read these volumes without
realising what his present biographer has
made so plain—that the gift of life to Wil-
liam Bligh was not wasted, and that the
world was better for his existence.
This work took 10 years to make ready
for the printer, and it had almost been
completed when a vast amount of original
matter, that had been hidden away for a
century became available.' So-, it was prac-
tically rewritten. The matter : that came
to light after being lost: for so ‘ long is ex-
tremely valuable. Without some of it we
could never have formed an adequate idea
of the sort of man Bligh was, or of what
really happened in New t „ South Wales be-
tween 1806 and 1810, so far as the- cir-
cumstances affecting his governorship are
concerned. Taken with those already familiar
the new records complete the picture in , a
lashion that otherwise could not have been
done. They make it possible 'to-say. defi-
nitely that Bligh was in the right and the
rebellious element amongst his subjects
\Vickedly and selfishly in the wrong.'" '
Throughout the work, chapter and verse
are given for every statement and assertion
made by the author. The mutineers of the
Bounty have their case just as well con-
sidered as their commander’s, and nothing
is left of the incidents of the Sydney, rebel-
lion that has not been “thoroughly -’sifted
a.nd examined. Both sides receive the
fairest of fair play. Bligh’s personal con-
duct at the time of hfs arrest, /for instance,
comes in for the most; careful examination,
and the, verdict, is that, “in the time of
crisis he funked the issue and hid under or
behind a bed.” It is' quite obvious that
Mackaness comes to this conclusion much
against his inclination, but it is a test of
the care with which all the evidence has
been examined, and of his capacity for de-
livering judgment, in this and other matters,
that he should have done so.
The Life of Admiral Bligh is a most
valuable book, and increases the indebted-
ness of Australians to the firm that has
given us “Matthew Flinders,” “The Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia,” and much else in
the history and literature of our country.
J. H. M. ABEOTT.
Starting a Press
Eric Partridge, who gives a brief account
of his publishing enterprise in London in
The First Three Years (Scholartis Press),
was with the A.I.F. on Gallipoli and in
France. That is one reason why his and
John Brophy’s “Soldier Songs,” lately re-
viewed on this page, is such a first-class
job. After the scrapping, Partridge went
to London and, with a capital of only £lOO,
started the Scbolartis. For the first year
he did absolutely everything by himself,
even to delivering the parcels. “It may have
been good physical training, but it was
somewhat exhausting.” Later on he had a
friend to help him at each publication for
a couple of days. Then he found himself
able to employ one hand, and eventually
Scholartis emerged as a private company.
It is now located in rooms previously
occupied by another Australian who has
tried out the private press enterprise in
London—Jack Lindsay.
It is a queerish game, this private publish-
ing. It has to do with special and limited
editions, signed issues and th'e like. There
are people apparently who make complete
collections of the publications of their
choice of the private presses; and Scholar-
tis limits the number of its yearly pub-
lications with this in mind. If such
people buy with commercial intent—they
usually don’t—they might do pretty well,
for in the little time Scholartis has been
going several of its books at 7s. 6d. or there-
abouts have appreciated to between 21s. ahd
305., one at 7s. 6d. is fetching between £5
and £9, and several at 21s. are now priced
at from £3 to £lO. Signed-copies •of Nora
Hoult’s “Poor Women I” which several pub-
lishers refused before Partridge took it up,
are now worth more than he cares to cal-
culate. It is like betting on the tote.
The best book Scholartis has issued
from a publicity point of view was Norah
C. James’s “Sleeveless Errand.” The . pro-
secution of Partridge for publishing that
noveL gave the cables a strangely literary
turn about two years ago. On February 19,
someone in a newspaper office sent a marked
advance copy of the book to the Home
Office. The people who look after censor-
ship in London wasted no time. At 8 p.m.
next day two plain-clothes men called at
Partridge’s flat and insisted on his accom-
panying them forthwith to his office. All
copies were seized, and on March 1, Par-
tridge had to appear at Bow-street “to
show reason why the book should not be
destroyed.” Anyone with a legal turn of
mind should see what that really meant.
Partridge’s counsel failed “to show reason,”
and the whole edition went up in smoke.
The book' has since been translated into
three or four European languages, an edition
in English is obtainable in France, and in a
very slightly expurgated form it has proved
a best-seller in America.
It is redundant to add that it is. not
available in Australia. Australia would
ban the Bible to-morrow if England took
the lead.
C.M.
A Satchel of Books
A r Book of Marionette Plays, by Anne
Stoddard and Tony Sarg (Allen and Unwin ;
4s. 6d. net). Red Ridinghood, Jack of the
Beanstalk and other nursery characters figure
in the leads of half a dozen playlets, and
there are expert instructions in the making
of home or commercial marionette shows.
The Sheilch Touch (Hurst and Blackett,
7s. 6d. net) is the first and best of four
novelettes by Mrs. -.Baillie Reynolds which
have been combined to make a 287-page
book. All are highly dramatic and contain
unexpected endings; in fact they are excel-
lent talkie plots, couched for the most part
in pure talkiese.
Heaven , by Frank Townshend (Knopf;
6s( net),. %;In his rather better “Barth” the
\yriter, satirised-.the wordly life of men. Here
his muse carries him* to ’Heaven, and satiric
contrasts of the other - life. His verse is of
the order parodied in “Sundry Shows”
recently ; .H- ~ -
The . next building was
The Hall of Sweet - Illusions.
It was one ,of the largest: buildings in Heaven.
Any . reliable typewriter can do that sort of
thing unaided, but,there is a good measure
of „v original thinking - here to make some
amends; for the paucity) of poetry.
The ' Jackanapes ? Jacket (Bow ; R,obertson
andi; Mullens ; 7s.' 6d.) is by E. M, Keate, who
is ; an eminent authority-on Hampton Court.
It is primarily as an authoritative
picture of the day-by-day lives of those pri-
vileged beings .to whom the Sovereign has
granted apartments in ; Wolsey’s old home.
But it is also.a; rattling' 5 good mystery story
featurihg a murderlby a hand that no reader
will? possibly discover .'before revelation comes
in the)lasst chapter. ..This scholarly novel
should (make a strong appeal-to those who
know the exquisite old-Hampton Court gar-
dens,- in which the charming girl in the
“jackanapes jacket” lived so much of her
life.
E. Charles Vivian’s Unwashed Gods
(Methuen; 7s. 6d. net) is admirably written.
He makes the reader see the English village
Gaine and its inhabitants—the mysterious
girl at the Tan House, the nice young men
who own the local pottery, and their rela-
tions and employees, domestic and otherwise.
The plot hinges on the murder of a pretty
girl. The author is more successful with
liis country folk than he is with the suiei-
dally crude blackmailers whom he imports
from London, and he rather overdoes his
propaganda against the “unwashed gods”
(i.e., Bolshies) who provide him with his
title. Still he has produced a credible and
exciting shocker with at least one pleasing
innovation —a professional detective with the
brains of an amateur.
And a Little Verse
NEVER.
“When are you coming to London again?”
—Extract from letter.
When shall I go to see those towers again,
And hear that sumptuous din—
Enter once more that ancient-patterned life
Of my own kith and kin,
To clasp remembered hands and see the eyes
That knew my eyes of old;
To feel the welcoming, warm minds, the love,
And hear the years re-told—
And I at home to cherish eager hands?
It haunts and frets the surface of the mind.
To see those cliffs rise up
Grey on the foam of history; to speed
Through Kent’s green valley’s cup
Till the dim roar of mighty London sounds
In ears and heart again;
To take new eyes down old beloved streets;
To feel old winds and rain,
And make the longing memories come
true....
The shadows of the blue-bells all aswoon
In the dim forest grass;
Dear Thames that silvers deep those beckon-
ing fields;
And skies of old that pass
And come again and pass and never die....
My strange new eyes would see
With new delight the wonder and the gold
That shone there; I should be
Re-born with all my radiant world to learn !
But where would be the hard-won faith in
life
Australia gave at last?
Where all that sorrow taught me, all the
truth,
The work, the hope made fast?
Whither my ghosts, my sons who sleep dowu
here,
With me to watch the gate?
My heart salutes its dreams. I will not go
However kindly Fate 6 '
I will remember, till I. also sleep.
N.S.W.
HIIARY, LOFTING.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) mil be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
ana no MS. will be returned, unless stamps accompany.
J.P.: If it is not true to the last comma,
somebody would have to go to gaol over it....
Knight: All admitted; what we want is a plan for
reducing the parasites John S. M.: You’re wrong,
too. Service chevrons were worn on the right arm,
as Percival > showed it.. . .R.E.M.: Point out your
faults? Well, you say very little in a lot of words.
. ...V.G.: Good enough as verse; the topic has
been worn a bit thin... .F.S.: None the worse for
being Kiplingesque, but they’re too long for these
times... .W.M.: Fair enough as a prayer, but it
doesn’t go well as a poem... .D.C.J.: Sonnet
frail; the other spoilt by the refrain M.S.N.:
Pleased to hear that Lang blushes.... Sprint: “The
•Quarter Mile” reads like a marathon R.W.T.:
“Carnival” not bad, but it doesn’t suit....V.C.:
Still can’t give your muse your initials A.C.W.:
They’ve already been lashed for that... .C.T.P.: You
seem to have something to say, but verse isn’t
your natural way of saying it S. J.M.: Try to get
your rhymes without dragging in words like “kine” and
“w01d”... .W.E.B. (Wellington) : Still doesn’t satisfy.
... .1.8. C.: Only way they’d'be of use would be as
Poverty Point pars. Thanks for the intent of the
verse... .Baringala: Main trouble is hackneyed
phrases F.M.: Delicate idea spoilt by the Peep-
ing Tom ending... .S.M.: One spasm:—
Eight hours of hell, midst shot and shell,
And boots flying at cats ;
An obstacle race, at awful pace,
’Midst Bedlam and gnats.
Rogue V.: No use getting a topical gag and
rhyming variations on it. You need to add some-
thing. .. .A.S.: Scarcely more than description....
R.R.W.: Better thrash it out in one of the teachers’
journals... .D.G.: Poetically, you don’t say any-
thing about it... .P.E.G.: When anyone encloses
“some doggerel” there is no question of “publica-
tion or w.p.b.” It has only one destination. ...
841: Overcome by the thought of fighting “in the
battle for bread” whilst floating “on a river of
years”.... Pro Patria: Congratulations on the spirit,
anyway C.A.8.: Too slight S. J.C.: Promis-
ing, but you need a few years yet. ... Bellerive:
Another stirring item: —
THE WRECK OF THE TITANIC.
Voyagers for the boats
Wildly fought for their lives,
Brave men clung to their
Children and wives.
Gripped by the breakers
Which did annihilate,
Tragical and swift was
The appalling fate
Of the mass of ■ humanity
In the throes of death,
Grappling, ' twirling and
Gasping for breath.
With frothing fury the
Huge breakers did roll
O’er the ill-fated victims
Of the calamity’s toll.
Long years have passed
Since the gigantic ship
Struck an iceberg
On a ‘ outbound trip.
(Next: ‘‘Recollections of Old Night Skelters.”')
....Pascal: No market here for poems beginning
“Awake, my land, the dawn is in the sky.” Your
other pieces are just a muddy torrent of poor rhyme.
H.: It seems worth saying, but not in that
form.... 8.D.: Bush fires have had stronger treat-
ment. .. .N. 8.: Try to make the best of them twice
as g00d... .R.H.: You have a facility, but seem to
lack the poetic urge... .E. 8.: Verse addressed to
the basket suggests that you ought to go to Bisley.
. ...H.R.V.: It has no backbone... .E.H.C.: Turned
a deaf ear to “A Plea for Mercy”... .A. 8.: Hasn’t
that pig been caught yet? It must be 40 years
since he escaped from his 5ty....W.5.8.: You got
beyond your depth in the Solomons J.F.D.:
Far too many down-in-the-mouth yarns. Let’s
have something bright K.H.: Starts well but
drifts... .H.J.M.: We read it gamely until the hero
said “It’s okay with me, Baby” G.K.F.: You
take too long to tell it....A.C.: Do the people you
know spend all their time heaving bottles at one
another ?.... 1.P.: Irishmen don’t spout that gib-
berish... .W.T.A.: The Judge certainly had a prob-
lem to solve, but in real life he would have been
more reticent... .E.P.: You could have made it a
lot smarter.... 8.W.: Some other paper might give
it space... .E.J.P.: Underweight. .. .N.E.J.: Ridi-
culous... .A.F.: “The enclosed isn’t really a story;
it’s more like an essay, isn’t it?” It doesn’t bear
the remotest resemblance to either.... S.S.: “Old
Lady’s Tears” and “Niemeyers” is this week’s worst
attempt at rhyming N.A.: Private opinions on
the workings of Providence only clog the story
K.M.: Too melodramatic and too 10ng... .8.M.: You
chose the easy and hackneyed way 0ut.... J.W.D.:
Fair, but fair is not sufficient W.A.H.: That plot
has been dished up half a hundred different ways
since Henry Arthur Jones set it down. .. .C.R.: Wild
and w0011y... .P.A.D.: Plot a featherweight....
D.W.: Do you really believe that “rents are just
as they have been for years and prices of necessaries
steadily on the increase”?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.C.W.: Poor smudgy little things... .A.’A.: “An
offence” it is... .A.G.F.: You’ve turned out nothing
remarkable F.C.: Stiff and stale E.H.: No
use for decayed malapropisms Nosrac: More like
the Living Skeleton than “Kewpie” Parkhill
C.C.: Where’s the joke?... .S.R.: No living in it
for you... .D.J.S.: Tract-distributor has another
peculiarity—two left hands M.R.W.: The girls are
about three yards high L.T.: Your Binghi shan’t
camp here... .F. 8.: No merit in either... .D.S.: Only
a scattering of spiky lines R.J.T.: And you’ve
just heard of that posthole gag! E.M.G.: Un-
speakable... .E.V.0.: None of much account....
W.C.W.: They don’t quite fill the bill 8.C.:
Feebly funny,.. .A.N.: Linework resembles teeth of
crosscut saw P. 8.: Join an art class and study
for a year or two before having another smack....
J.D.D.: Smudged and du11... .A.E.: We don’t take
sketches in color, even when they’re g00d... .F.S.:
You’ll need to think out stronger ideas... .R.M.A.:
A joyless little effort T.A.G.: Make every line tell.


9
l
m
f
'
m
r€:-
*>reai Westers
v ■<■
'M
sC..
Hi
& CJ
C
cur


The Bulletin
Vol. 52.—N0. 2669.
April 8, 1931.
THE CASTAWAYS.
"While pushing on with his Fiduciary note issue, Mr. Theodore has introduced a measure giving the Government authority to seize the balance of the gold in the
Commonwealth Bank."
THE MAN AT THE PUMP: "This is beautiful water, of course, Jim; but you sneak along and collar that old bloke's billy-just in case this sort doesn't agree with my
stomach."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 21i George street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.t.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to anv address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
8 months, 7s.
To anv address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
t! months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua and Fiji:
2d. United Kingdom: 3d. All Sea Route: 2d.
U.S.A.: Sd. Elsewhere: sd.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
THE RED PAGE—HIS BOOKS: A GUIDE TO
READERS 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. . . K
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON .. ..7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS (drawings by Frith) .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
SUNDRY SHOWS—
THE SYDNEY SHOW (drawings by Frith) 18
ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER? .. ..19
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 20, 21
SMOKE-OH (with drawings) .. .. .. 22
MAN ON THE LAND 24, 26
SHADOW SHOWS 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. ..27
SERIAL—
“NO ESCAPE,” by Velia Ercole .. 28, 29
SPORTING (illustrated) 30, 31
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 32
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 34
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. .. 32, 34
SAID BEFORE—(Drawing by Phil May) .. 36
TWO COMPLETE STORIES—
“THREE ELEVENS,” by S. S. Severn .. 37
“THE TURNING OF A WORM”—
By Cecil Mann .. .. .. .. 38
VERSE —By Hilary Lofting, Roderic Quinn 5, 38
WHO’S GOT THE GOLD?
A cable message a few days ago told us
that the U.S.A. had now 42 per cent, of all
the monetary gold of the world, which was
approximately twice as much as France
holds and seven times the reserve of the
Bank of England. There was a time when
this would have been held to account for
all mankind’s financial and industrial woes;
to-day, while it still seems certain that the
accumulation of gold in a few vaults has
serious consequences, the tendency is to
believe that it is itself an effect rather than
a cause. Why has gold been moving to the
U.S.A. and France in particular—in a lesser
extent to Switzerland, Sweden, Belgium and
Holland?
The war was, of course, responsible for
the first great migration. The United States,
standing out of the battle-line, had the time
of its life supplying the Allies with their
needs. Imports almost ceased; exports
grew enormously. The trade balance was
righted partly by the return of U.S. securi-
ties, partly by the shipment of gold to the
U.S., finally with lOU’s. When the war
was over the U.S.A. was the only great
country in the world which put no obstacles
in the way of the shipment of gold. Hence
it was the one country in the world to
which people desired to send their capital.
Between 1922 and 1926 the total deposits of
the member banks in the American Federal
Reserve system rose from 2860 millions
(pounds) to 3751 millions, while the 10„
London clearing banks’ deposits fell from
1783 millions to 1661 millions. Thus while
the U.S.A. banks in these four post-war
years gained 891 millions, the great British
banks lost 122 millions. And the loss was
by no means from Britain alone. France
was a large exporter, too. The future of the
franc was uncertain, and every payment for
goods that France could afford to leave
abroad was lodged in either England or the
U.S.A. After the stabilisation of the franc
this money began to flow back into France,
and the process is not finished yet.
But it has not been all French money that
has gone to France any more than it was
all American money that was given into the
keeping of Uncle Sam. There was a flight
of capital from London in 1923 when a
Conservative Minister suggested that a
little inflation might do the country good;
and there was a much greater flight immedi-
ately after the last general election and the
return of the Labor party. There has been
a flight from eveiy other country where
the Communists talk with a loud voice.
“Monetary policy to-day,” the “Statist”
said lately, “is being fashioned for us not
so much in bank parlors as in the coalfields
of South Wales, in the textile districts of
Lancashire, in the offices of trades unions
and of employers where decisions are
being taken to strike or not to strike, to
arbitrate or to fight it out.”
While there was this push away from the
disturbed countries of Europe there was a
pull towards America. In 1928-29 New
York had the greatest Stock Exchange boom
ever known. Money had been pouring in;
credit was plentiful; trade was flourishing.
Now, capital sent out of a countxy for
safety does not as a rule settle down in
any other country. Things may quickly
change for the better at home; and, any-
way, the owner cannot watch foreign securi-
ties. He therefore seeks some investment
in which the money is tied up as little as
possible—from which, in short, he may with-
draw it at a few hours’ notice. The Stock
Exchange boom in America suited him
exactly. It was said that nobody who
had lent call money to the New York
Stock Exchange had ever lost a cent. Yet
1 per cent, for 30-day loans could be had—
-12 p.c. per annum. More gold was sent
to America to join in this picnic.
After the collapse of the Wall-street
boom there was a movement of gold away
from the U.S.A.; but it was soon arrested,
and the figures began to move up again.
Another influence was now at work. The
Communist activity in many countries of
Europe had, as we have seen, discouraged
long-term investments and driven capital to
the U.S.A. and France, and to a less extent
Switzerland, Sweden and the Low Countries.
The demand for short-term money in New
York had further drawn capital that
way. This had left less money available
for those borrowing countries which had
been carrying out development programmes.
At the same time and for the same reason
European banks, having been heavily
drawn upon, began to make * money
dearer. Stocks of all sorts of merchandise
and raw material were, in consequence,
forced on the market; prices began to fall,
and before long world trade' was slipping
down into the trough. Caught by the stop-
page of loans and the fall in prices, the
jmung borrowing countries of the world
were soon in difficulties; and in the struggle
they began shipping their gold. Every
debtor republic of S. America sent part of
its reserves to the U.S.A. ; and Canada was
also a large shipper that way. Australia
sent to Britain, and Japan sent largely
both east and wqst. All the Governments
and reserve banks of the world at the end of
December held approximately 2170 millions
of gold, and all the countries outside the
U.S.A., France and Britain held but 700
millions of it: that is, the Big Three held
68 per cent.; all others 32 per cent.
Two things about capital emerge ‘from
these facts: first, its fluidity; second, its
timidity. Not for 80 years at any rate has
Australia been in a worse financial plight;
yet in the past 12 months we have shipped
away not far short of 150 millions of wealth
—in goods, in gold and in securities saleable
abroad. It is true that a great deal of this
has come back to us; but there is a great
deal that has not and will not. No way of
stopping the flight has yet been discovered;
and at most times no attempt is made to
stop it. As for its timidity—why should it
not be timid? A tremendous proportion
of it is in the hands of trustees, some of
whom—banks, for example—have put up
capital to guarantee its integrity; it is there-
fore much more important that they should
preserve the principal intact than show a
profit on its use.
So we come back to the point that the
accumulation of gold in a few strong
countries and the burial of a great part of
it in vaults is for the most part the direct
result of that political and industrial move-
ment which seeks to improve matters by
making capital more timid still. If the
Communist and the demi-Communist could
make capital static—if they could make
capital stay put—they could do most things
else with it. But, as we have seen, it is
capable of the most remarkable flights.
To command it, it is necessary to get its
confidence. And the Workers of the World
will never get its confidence by taking pot-
shots at it every time it settles.
THE LANG “PLAN.”
When Mr. Lang sent his reply to the
■Federal Government’s offer of financial
assistance, he told the Prime Minister that
if it had money to spare it might better
spend it on our own unemployed rather than
on foreign moneylenders. Almost every day
since then some echo of this has been heard.
“We are concerned with our own unem-
ployed, not with the oversea bondholder,”
is the burden of the cry. So, in the opinion
of a large number of the workers of Aus-
tralia —of N. S. Wales especially—Mr. Lang
stands for the unemployed, while his
opponents stand for the overseas bond-
holders—“and to Hell with the starving
worker of Australia!” as one fervid orator
puts it.
Mr. Lang is a house and land agent at
Auburn. Do the tenants on Mr. Lang’s
books pay their rent because they love the
landlord? Of course they don’t. They pay
because they know if they don’t pay they
will be out roofless on the street. And that
is the relative position of. the Australian
borrower and the oversea lender. WTien
Mr. Lang’s angry tenant tells Mr. Lang
that the landlord can go to the Devil, that
he, the tenant, hasn’t got much money and
what he’s got he’s going to spend on him-
self, Mr. Lang as a good property agent
will say, “That’s all very well, my friend.
But you’d better pay, for if you don’t
you’ll have to go out.” And a very good
friend Mr. Lang is to the tenant in giving
him that advice.
Yet the tenant has far less to lose by
telling all landlords to go to the Devil
than N. S. Wales has by telling the overseas
lender that interest payments are off. A
man can swindle one landlord without evei-y
other landlord knowing it: N. S. Wales
cannot swindle one foreign lender without
every other foreign lender knowing all
about it, so loudly and widely is the thing
advertised. For all practical purposes there
is only one foreign lender in the world;
and the man who doesn’t pay his butcher’s
bill in a place where there is only one
butcher, announcing that he can find better
uses for his money, is well advised to
become a vegetarian.
Another trouble is that the butcher is likely
to talk; and if he can suggest to the grocer
and the baker that his late customer is a
person not to be trusted, not to say a rogue,
the latter is very likely to find himself only
a cash customer for bread and sugar, too.
There are times in a man’s life when it
doesn’t matter to him whether he can get
credit or not—he can do without it. But
there are other times when, being without
means, he must get credit in order to live.
That is just how Australia stands now. It
has had the worst setback of its career; it
probably never before had half so many un-
employed. And, as with a man who has
just suffered a great reverse, to get a start
again it must have credit. To get credit a man
must make sacrifices. If he has promised to
pay he must pay even though he has to
pinch himself and his family to do it. Credit
thus established, he can go forward. The
case of a country is no different—a country
being merely a man multiplied many times.
We can get out of our troubles by making
momentary sacrifices in order to establish
our credit; or we can go deeper into trouble
by refusing to make even a momentary
sacrifice, and so destroying our credit and
therefore our hope of recovery.
So it is out of 'no affection for the foreign
bondholder that Mr. Lang has been begged
to keep this interest paid: it is out of affec-
tion for those people—ourselves included —
who will suffer when the financial baker and
butcher and grocer will no longer trust us
and help us to get back on to our feet.
Mr. Lang and his friends may be credited
with the best of intentions: it is not at all
necessary to assume that the injury they
are doing to the workers is done deliber-
ately. Unfortunately it is a moot point
whether more damage has not been done in
the world by friends than by enemies. Cer-
tainly in this case no enemy could be a
worse friend.
It is possible, of course, to take other
ground. It is possible to believe that Mr.
Lang is an agent of the International Com-
munist party, whose purpose is to “estab-
lish the rule of the proletariat,” which
plan involves the destruction of the British
Empire as being one of the great obstacles
to the consummation of the plan. And
more than the destruction of the Empire—
the destruction also of democracy, which,
since it seeks the rule of the majority, seeks,
in the Communist phrase, “the rule of in-
action and stupidity.” On this charge of
base treachery to his country and democ-
racy Mr. Lang may be given the benefit
of the doubt. But that applies only to the
underlying cause of his policy. Of the evil
consequences of the policy itself there can
be no doubt whatever.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Task of Cleaning Up.
We have yet to face the facts which Scullin
has shirked at Canberra and Lang most
conspicuously in Sydney. And for a few
weeks it is going to hurt. We cannot come
down to earth without a bump. Most of our
standards will have to be revised. Price
levels have fallen and wages and salaries will
have to conform to them. We shall be none
the worse off for that: the standard of living
will not be affected at all. Yet if the de-
cline is not sharp enough it may be neces-
sary to push the fall in salaries and wages
a few points in advance of the fall in prices,
in order to hasten the latter. There will
have to be wholesale reductions of both
personnel and pay in the Public Service.
The reductions of pay may be gradual: and
ample notice should be given of impending
dismissals. Departments will have to be
amalgamated, Ministers reduced by nearly
one-half.
Now all this might look like pulling things
up by the roots and inevitably producing
widespread disorder and distress. It is
not going to be any picnic; but the ill
results will be almost immediately offset
by a return of confidence. The day Aus-
tralia (including N. S. Wales) decides be-
yond all question to live within its means
and proceeds on the painful but imperative
process of reorganisation, we shall see credit
begin to flow back; and that will quickly
counterbalance all the ill-effects of retrench-
ment. When that time comes no effort must
be spared to turn the trickle of confidence
and credit into a hearty flood.
Australia was not a bad place in the
first dozen years of this centuiy, in spite
of a more than average share of drought.
Between 1901 and the end of 1912 unem-
ployed trades unionists never reached
7 per cent., and fell as low as 4 per cent.
Even in our latter gorgeous days of boom we
never got down to a figure like that: in 1928
an average of just under 11 per cent, of trades
unionists were unemployed, and in 1929 just
over 11 per cent. And, as has been shown
elsewhere, the wages in proportion to pur-
chasing power were within 3 per cent, of our
highest recent figure. When we get back
then, to approximately pre-war conditions
we get back to something that need not
cause us any apprehension. A condition
under which only 4 per cent, were unem-
ployed must indeed seem rather like P ara ~
dise to a generation which sees over 20 pei
cent, of its trade-union members unable to
find a job. .
True, we shall never be able to exactly
reproduce pre-war conditions. Quite apart
from the millions spent on war and the mil-
lions still to be spent on war pensions,
State public debts grew from 317 millions as
at June 30, 1914, to 726 millions as at
June 30, 1929; in these 15 years the States
went into debt for more than they had bor-
rowed in all their lives previously. lhe
interest is a heavy burden around our necks.
On the other hand we have developed our
secondary industries and made great im-
provements in our primary industries; and
this depression has lopped off tens of mil-
lions of boom values and reduced over-
head expenses by other millions.
It is a cold stream we have to plunge
into. But it does not look wide, and there
is good grazing, on the other side. We have
stood on this bank for 18 months and noth-
ing has changed for the better. We have
been living on our fat until few of us have
much fat left; our confidence in ourselves
and in one another has withered. The best
we can do is to blow bubbles and call old
failures and futilities by new names. Theie
is no hope in such absurdities. Better togo
forward and die than to stand still and die.
Australia’s Low-grade Mines.
In order to put Australia on its feet we
must increase production. Mr. Erie
Huntley, one of the best-known of Aus-
tralian mine superintendents and consulting
engineers, has been asked to discuss in this
article why America is working mines of
a grade which Australia cannot touch:—
There are two main reasons, neither of which is
due to want of brains or efficiency in the Aus-
tralian engineer. These are: (1) The cost of equip-
ment; (2) the restricted hours of work.
With regard to (1) : Cost of equipment is from
40 to 70 per cent, greater in Australia; an average
of, say, 50 per cent. With regard to (2) : Australian
laws permit of working mines and plant for sor
days per week, whereas most low-grade American
mines work seven days per week. I don’t mean to
say that the same men are working all the time,
but by the use of relief gangs and shifts the capital
invested is permitted to earn revenue for seven
days per week.
Suppose we find a deposit capable of producing,
say, 2000 tons per day, or 700,000 tons per annum.
We cannot ask for capital unless we can show about
12| per cent, interest and the same for amortisation
of plant and equipment. That means eight years’
life, or about six million tons reasonably proved.
Owing to the huge factories which cater for this
class of plant, the cost of equipment for such a
project in America would, for purposes of comparison,
be in the neighborhood of £350,000. This would
call for £87,500 p.a. to pay interest on capital and
amortisation of plant, or equal to two shillings and
sixpence per ton on the 700,000 tons treated pei
annum. In Australia similar plant would cost about
£525,000, which calls for a working profit of
£131,250 p.a. to pay interest and amortisation, equal
to over 4s. 9d. per ton on the 550,000 tons p.a.
which the plant would treat on a 53-day-per-week
This shows that under American conditions the
profit per ton need be only about one-half of what
must be expected under Australian conditions at
present.
Take as an example an ore worth 12s. per ton
and working costs at, say, 9s. 6d. per ton. Under
American conditions: —
700,000 tons worth 12s. . . . . • • £420,000
Working costs at 9s. 6d. .. £332,500
Amortisation of plant at 121 p.c. 43,750
Net profit . . . . • • • • £43,750
This profit is equal to 12| p.c. on the investment.
Under Australian conditions (the plant working
51 days instead of 7) :
550,000 tons worth 12s. . . . . • • £330,000
Working costs at 9s. 6d. per ton. . £261,250
Amortisation of plant at 12i p.c. 65,625
—— 326)87*)
Net profit .. • • • • • • • • £3,125
This profit is equal to about one-half of 1 p.c. on
the investment, which is hardly a reasonable mining
risk. A few further figures would show that the
position becomes rapidly worse on lower-grade ore.
I would not import machinery if it could be made
as well and at approximately the same cost here;
but if it cannot and such importation will lead to
greater employment and the production of many
times its value of new wealth, then surely impor-
tation is justified, especially as it would not diminish
the local manufacturers’ output, but would indirectly
increase it.
Our low-grade ore deposits cannot be worked at
anything like the profit shown by American mines,
or on lines comparable therewith, until such time
as our machinery can be greatly reduced in cost
and our laws are amended to permit of full-time
working of mines and plant.
Such conditions would not only make the ex-
ploitation of our low-grade deposits attractive, but
would also permit of greater output, expanding
industry and production of new wealth by the treat-
ment of lower-grade ore from our comparatively
high-grade mines, and would probably lead to the
reopening of many mines which are now closed down.
Lang and the A.W.U.
The A.W.U., most robust of Australian
unions, hopped into the ring last week, and
the Lang breakaways and the Lang “plan
deserved all they got. For Lang’s offence
from the party point of view is as great as
it is from the national. He had a perfect
right to put forward his views, however fan-
tastic, and to try to carry them into effect,
however impracticable; but he had no right
at all to put them forward and to attempt
to carry them through as the Labor policy-
Labor is an all-Australian party, and its
policy a matter for Federal and not state
settlement; what this usurper attempted
was to force upon the rest of Australian
Labor a policy which the governing body
had not even a hand in framing. It was
worse than plain disloyalty, it was tricky
disloyalty; and when the great bulk oi
N. S. Wales Labor supporters realise this—


THE SUPERIOR HERD.
BILLKINS: “Got a pretty good opinion of themselves, haven’t they?”
JIMKINS: “Yes, I suppose they know they haven’t made such a mess of things as we have.”
when they realise that one man attempted
to set up a dictatorship over all Australian
Labor—it is certain they will return to their
proper allegiance.
For the moment, no doubt, a good many
have been captivated by the man’s '‘bold-
ness”: while others have “talked sociali-
sation,” it is said, he has “gone straight
after it.” He has, in fact, done nothing of
the sort. If he has gone after it at all
he has gone after it crookedly and blunder-
ingly. The policy of socialisation may be
right or it may be wrong; on the evidence
of experience The Bulletin believes it is
wrong, for this generation at any rate. But
right or wrong, it is honest; more than
honest, it is idealistic. There is no idealism
about what this man has done: there is only
crude and cynical dishonesty.
But even if he had gone after it in the
right v r ay he was not entitled to decide
what was the right way: that was a matter
for the governing body of the whole party.
And he did more than decide; he defied the
governing body; he declared, in effect, that
he was' greater than the party. He may
be; but in such circumstances no self-
respecting party can allow him to belong
to it, or any of those who, after being given
time for reflection, support him in his
truculence and disloyalty. In one of the
rank and file it would not be tolerated for
a day: in one who has reached leadership
the offence is infinitely greater.
+
Eight Months’ Trade Figures.
In the first eight months of this financial
year, according to Customs figures and
excluding gold shipments, we had a trade
balance in our favor of £11,828,066, while
for the corresponding eight months of
1929-30 there was a balance of £31,022,405
against us. It looks good and it is good in
view of the fact that the result was achieved
in the teeth of a stunning fall in the price
of our staple exports.
But it is not so good when we take
exchange into account. The figures quoted
above represent the Australian value of
exports and the overseas value of imports;
and the English £IOO is now worth £133 10s.
in Australian paper. Obviously, therefore,
the £58,817,030 of our merchandise exports
will not pay for anything like that amount
of imports or meet anything like that
amount of interest due. It is not possible
to figure out exactly what concession ought
to be made. Exchange rates have moved as
follows since this financial year began:—
Buying. Selling.
Mar. 24, 1930 .. ..'£lo6 2 6 £lO6 10 0
Oct. 9, 108 10 0 109 0 0
•Tah. 5, 1931 .. .. 115 0 0 115 10 0
„ 13, 118 0 0 118 7 6
„ 16, . . . 125 0 0 125 10 0
„ 28, „ . . . . 130 0 0 130 10 0
The average premium for the year to
February 28 was approximately £l3 17s. 6d.
per £IOO English, which would reduce the
English value of our goods exports to about
£51,760,000. In addition to that we have
exported about one million’s worth of our
own gold, which would bring the English
value of our exports to 52f millions, as
against 47 millions of imports. This pro-
vides us with 5f millions towards interest,
which is probably in the neighborhood of
29 millions a year. (The figure 36 millions is
now frequently quoted; but that includes
“charges,” chiefly exchange.) At the same
rate for the full year we shall have 8|
millions towards 28 millions of interest.
Accepting exports at their Australian
valuation and assuming that we have to
pay 36 millions a year in “interest and
charges” overseas, at the end of the eight
months we were behind £5,380,651. But we
had sent away six millions of our gold
reserves, so that, in fact, we fell £11,380,000
short, or at the rate of 17 millions a year.
By the other reckoning we shall be about 20
millions short; and the truth probably lies
somewhere between those figures.
At the end of the first eight months of
last year we were over 48 millions short,
disregarding, of course, the gold reserves we
were hurrying away. Seeing that we have
cut this year’s figures to one-fourth of that,
we have made definite progress. But there
is still a long way to go.
Bolshevism in Australia.
The militant section of the N. S. Wales
Labor party, which is the section in com-
mand, has thrown off the mask: at the
Easter Conference it revealed that Bolshe-
vism is its immediate objective. The motion
declaring this purpose and setting out a
three-year plan for bringing it to effect was
in charge of the brother-in-law and friend
of the Premier, J. T. Lang. It puts the
Lang Government’s policy beyond doubt:
no longer is it possible to believe that the
various proposals submitted have been
merely by accident in agreement with the
instructions of Communist headquarters in
Moscow.
What is aimed at, then, is frankly the
end of private property. The “means of
carrying on the fight” were explained in a
manifesto issued from Moscow:—
We must at the first favorable opportunity
proceed to the seizure of all means of production
and all articles of consumption. At the same time
we must mercilessly destroy all remains of govern-
mental authority and class domination by liberating
prisoners, demolishing prisons and police offices and
destroying all legal papers pertaining to private
ownership, all field fences and boundaries and burn
all certificates of indebtedness. We must take care
that everything is wiped out off the earth that Is
a reminder of the right of private ownership of
property.
Probably three-fourths of the workers of
N. S. Wales do not realise what “socialisa-
tion” implies. They think it is some plan
for pulling down the rich. It is much more
logical than that. Its purpose is to destroy
the right to private property whether owned
by the rich or the poor. So the worker’s
cottage goes along with the capitalist’s
mansion; the few pounds which the worker’s
wife has in the savings bank goes along
with the millions of the Bank of New South
Wales.
But, then, the millions of the Bank of
N. S. Wales do not go. They are in many
places; and only N. S. Wales is expected to
“turn Bolshie.” So there will be a quick
removal of property out of N. S. Wales into
other States; credit will dry up in the State
that is under the curse; work will be harder
to get. But the worker’s cottage will
remain and so will the farmer’s land, to
presently pass out of their owners’ posses-
sion. Without compensation, of course; for
what compensation can you give when there
is no longer private property?—it would be
merely creating one sort of private property
to get rid of another.
It was time the Labor party split. Oil
and dynamite do not mix any better than
oil and water.
Uncle Sam, Imperialist.
It becomes clearer that the United States
intends, sooner or later, to extend its south-
ern boundary to take in Central America.
Progress has been going on in the usual
fashion. American capital practically
dominates Mexico. The setting up of the
“Republic” of Panama to safeguard the
Panama Canal was a natural corollary to
the acquisition by force of arms of Texas
and New Mexico in the not-so-long-ago.
A hint of what is going on may be taken
from a recent proposal in the U.S. Senate
to purchase the Mexican State of Lower
California and some thousands of square
miles of Mexican territory on the opposite
side of the Gulf of California. This would
give the United States complete control of
the lower course and the debouchment of
the Colorado River, the nexus of a vast
irrigation and hydro-electric scheme which
it now has in hand on the part of the
great river within its present boundaries.
The acquisition of this section of Mexico
would give the U.S.A. an ideal base from
which to push forward. Under the circum-
stances, it is not surprising to read of a
strong movement in Central America to
form a union to combat “the extending
domination of the Anglo-Saxon.” Delegates
from all the Central American republics
recently attended the opening conference
to discuss the matter, and the preliminaries
of a union are now in hand.
Uncle Sam has had it insistently enforced
upon him that he must find new markets for
his manuiactures, which have far outgrown
even the huge domestic demand. Tariff
barriers have cut heavily into his overseas
trade, especially within the British Empire
European competitors, with Britain in the
lead, have such a firm grip on trade
with the more affluent South American re-
publics that new business has to be folight
for, with little profit likely to accrue. The
obvious way out is the addition of new
territory to the United States. Canada is
a Garden of the Hesperides watched by
formidable dragons. The absorption of the
Central Americas seems the inevitable solu-
tion of the problem.
+
Sex Crimes.
Dear Bulletin, — In reply to "Claude
(Esophagus” (B. 18/3/’3l), (1) unappeased
sex-hunger causes repressions, which, in turn,
cause, or develop, abnormality. I doubt
if my friend of whom I wrote (B. 11/3/’3l)
would have become abnormal had he been
able to satisfy his natural desires in a
natural way. But, as I pointed out, he was
terrified to do so because of his dread 'of
disease. I heartily agree that he, and many
others of his kind, should be in a mental
hospital, receiving sympathetic and appro-
priate treatment. (2) Inspection, no matter
how frequent, would not entirely prevent
disease; I did not claim that it would. But
knowledge that there was regular inspection
would remove the fear of infection from a
good many; among them, possibly, potential
or actual perverts.—Yours, Dialectica.
♦
The Meat Export Market.
South American competition in lambs
promises to hit our trade hard. It is only
of late that Argentina and its neighbors
have seriously taken up this line of
export, but it is already evident they are out
to make everjr post a winning one. In
January their landings more than doubled
those from Australia and M.L. together—
South America, 849,452 carcases; Australia,
545,934; M.L., 233,530. The American ship-
ments, a huge increase on previous years’,
have been thrown on the market almost
regardless of price, with the result that
average fell 2d. to 3d. per lb. below
1930 figures, to the detriment, of course,
of Australasian shippers. Chilled and frozen
meat have also fallen in value, Australian
frozen being hard to dispose of, while
Australian frozen pork, though satisfactory
in quality, is far too uneven in type and
grading to gain general approval. In short
it is the old story of the happy-go-lucky
methods which have always so distinguished
the presentation of Australian goods to over-
seas markets. If it isn’t pork it is some-
thing else; and there is never likely to be
an improved standard until rigid methods
of grading conducted both privately and
officially are enforced.


V
VA
ft.
Reduced Tariff.
Patrons of “The Australia” are most definitely sharing in
the reduced cost of living. The new “ Room Only rates
should be noted as well as the fact that a general revision
has been made of the tariff for the Dining Hall and Grill
Room. Guests are making the pleasant discovery that
distinct savings are theirs without the slightest sacrifice
of quality or service.
Single Room only, from 12/ per day.
Double Room only, from 22/6 per day.
Breakfast—2/- and 3/6; and &la carte.
Telegraphic Address:
/ “Austraotel. Sydney."
Ask for
Illustrated
folder.
The _
/Australia
Hotel
SYDNEY
ENGAGEMENT MINGS
£3O
£55
£42
If you cannot
call, send for
free Illustrated
Catalogue.
A selection of
e ng a o email
rings sent on
approval
■>'
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
QUE:
OLLINS STEEE
POLITICAL
POINTS
Many people and newspapers thanked
Heaven that the credit and honor of Aus-
tralia were saved when the Commonwealth
paid the £729,251 due from the N. S. Swindle
Government to its British creditors. The
congratulation was ahead of time, for lia-
bilities of the same kind fall due every
month ; unless Lang can be squashed there
are at least eight more crises to be met be-
fore the end of 1931. By the amended Con-
stitution, if one State defaults the Common-
wealth, consisting for that purpose of the
other five States, must pay on its behalf.
But the other five States can’t afford to do
this, so they are confronted with the alter-
natives of either squashing Lang or being
defaulters themselves —they and the Com-
monwealth together. It is a war of five
States against one, or against as much of
it as will stand by the irresponsible estate
agent of Auburn.
Slang would like to forget nearly every-
thing he said in October, but he shouldn’t
be allowed to forget this :
The statement that a section of responsible public
opinion proposed to repudiate some of our obligations
insulted and hurt our people, and impelled them to
plump for the "Australian Labor party as the only
political body which has never been guilty of re-
pudiation.
It appeared in the first post-election issue
of his “Labor Daily.” A marked copy of
that paper should be pinned on to the peti-
tion praying the Governor to send the
Scaler Government to the country.
Vic. Parliament, in recess since Dec. 24,
Will resume on May 6. Hogan, whose
health has been indifferent since January,
is to go on a voyage to Cairns to equip
himself for the strenuous time expected.
His speech at Ballarat contained little that
was new. He admitted that the banks
were not to blame for the financial strin-
gency, but acquitted Labor of responsibility
for it. Nats, and Cockies, who had ex-
pected a policy speech, said that instead
of light and leading the public had got a
looking-backward exhibition.
Queensland’s plan of assisting sheep-
owners by lowering rents of Crown leases
and extending the terms, provided mortgagees
reduce interest (maximum to be 6 p.c.), is
now in operation, most of the big investing
concerns having said they were willing. The
pastoralist must prove that an agreement
has been made with the creditor; he is then
told the rent is down 25 p.c. and the lease
will run another seven years. The conces-
sion is not to apply to cases in which rents
have been fixed by the Land Court since
July, 1929.
“Mr. Lang is going to Victoria and South Aus-
tralia to tell the people of those States all about
his plan. He has marked down Labor Premiers
Hogan and Hill for political destruction."
THE JUDGE: “There’s no jury in this case,
and you’ve no counsel, and I’ve no
jurisdiction; but you’re both found
guilty and sentenced to death, see!”
The S. A us. Parliament has made Harry
Ivneebone a Senator in place of the late
J. 11. Chapman. Chapman was a Country-
party man, and, according to precedent,
ought to be succeeded by a member of the
same party, but the Scullidores are so des-
perately in need of another Senator —having
only five now that Dunn and Rac have joined
the Lang push—that precedent was ignored.
Ivneebone is on the Federal A.L.P. executive
and was a State Assemblyman for a year or
two. He resigned to have a shot at the
Federal Bootliby seat, and missed.
The Tas. State election is to take place
on May 9, at least a month earlier than
was expected. With the Nat. forces fully
equipped for battle (thanks to the A.W.N.L.)
and the Labor Opposition too busily engaged
in arguing about the defection of Lyons and
Guy and State-member Medwiu to have had
time for any political organising, it is im-
probable that McPhee’s Ministry will be
displaced; still, every Australian Govern-
ment that has gone to the country since the
slump began has been beaten. Labor candi-
dates spent part of Easter discussing tne
policy with which their leader, Ogilvie, will
seek to blast McPhee’s.
“The N. S. Wales Government having made no
provision to meet £730,000 of interest falling due
in London on April 1, the Federal authorities pro-
vided the money.”
MR. LANG: “Working to pay off debts, are
you? Well, more fool you!”
“If the Senate rejects the Fiduciary Notes
Bill,” said the Priminister to the Vic. Labor
conferences, “the Government will appeal
to the people.” The announcement was
received with cheers, which encouraged the
orator to explain that though he had been
accused of clinging to office appearances
were against him. Incidentally, he gave
Fiduciary Ted’s scheme the curious recom-
mendation that it was “not the best plan.”
The Senate is sure to throw out this admit-
tedly inferior monetary proposal, but Mr.
Scullin may then decide that he had better
hang on, as he did when the High Court'
Judges were appointed regardless of his
threat to resign.
On page 64 of Auditor-General Spence’s
report it is shown that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment negotiated loans to the amount of
£12,444,400 last financial year, odd pounds,
shillings and pence omitted. It got £425,391
at 1 p.c. fro’m the bowelless British Govern-
ment for migration purposes, £195,118 at 5
p.c. (price of issue in each case, £9B)
for the Grafton-South Brisbane railway,
£1,617,197 at 5f p.c. and £1,928,508 at
6.134 p.c., in these latter cases by way of
Treasury bills discounted in Loudon. It
raised £4,165.760 in London and £8,278,694
in Sydney. Now Slang has made it impos-
sible for it to raise a cent in either quarter,
or any other, on its unbacked bill.
Another stage in the swift decline of the
Labor party (the fall will be tremendous)
was reached at the Easter conference of the
N. S. Wales mob when “a three-year plan of
social transition” was approved of. Moscow,
of course, has its five-year plan; the three-
year plan is to provide for
Government by regulations, such regulations to
aim at the establishment in three years of a
socialised State by the vesting in the people’s Gov-
ernment all rights, ownership and control of all
specified property; by the administration of
specified industries, including banking; by national
industrial commissions and sub-commissions, with
direct workers’ and producers’ control; by the estab-
lishment of compulsory pools for the handling of
the nation’s entire production.
Obviously there is no place for Parliaments
in this scheme of things. Previously Slang
had described his attempt to swindle British
(but not American) investors in N. S. Wales
securities as “a step towards our objective,”
which is socialisation, otherwise robbery.
These rabbit-brained doctrinaires; these
reckless destroyers of better men’s work!
Few people were surprised, for surprise is
an almost extinct emotion, to find on Good
Saturday that the N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank had bought two whole pages of
advertising space in the capitalistic “S. M.
Herald” to induce people to put or leave
their money in that institution. Part of this
expensive effort consisted of a letter written
to the Commissioners by Premier Lang declar-
ing that the deposits are “guaranteed by the
State of New South Wales,” which means
that depositors have behind them the unim-
peachable assurance of the Lang Ministry to
inspire confidence. This is somewhat like
a lady paying for a sixteen-column advertise-
ment about her unblemished respectability.
The assets of the State were declared to be
“estimated conservatively” at £2,000,000,000,
which is good reading. In 1925, when the
boom was still good, Federal Statistician
Wickens put the private wealth down at
£1,215,958,000, including £19,956,000 of com
and bullion, which is now difficult to find.
If it is assumed that the private riches
haven’t diminished in the last six years then
it would appear that there are £784,042,000
of public assets over and above public debts.
It is a pity Lang doesn’t realise some ot
them, even at a small discount, and get out
of his difficulties.
There is a grievous lack in the Federal
Constitution of ways and means of collect-
ing from an unforeseen calamity like Lang,
for a separate Federal tax
can’t be laid on any default-
ing community. But there
are indirect methods. The
Bolshevik Premier at Sydney
claims to have a mandate
which covers any darned thing
he likes to do so long as he
has an Assembly majority.
But if the High Court orders
him to pay the £729,251, and
he falls into contempt by not
paying, he may bump against
a man with a mandate frotn
all Australia, in the shape of
a policeman with a warrant
for his arrest. Then the State
Excellency, being deprived in
this extraordinary way of his
boss-adviser, might rid himself
of the tangled situation by
dissolving Parliament and re-
ferring the matter to the
people. Even if Lang’s Red
adherents wrecked the gaol his
Ex. could hardly accept
advice from a fugitive from justice.
Vic. Trades Hall Council, which furiously
objects when the Federal Arbitration Court
orders 10 per cent, wage cuts, and is for ever
growling at the Labor Government for “ration-
ing,” has reduced the pay of nine officials
to save about £lO a week. Affiliation fees
have failed off considerably owing to non-
payment of union dues by unemployed mem-
bers. As Burke said 150 years ago, “Public
calamity is a mighty leveller.”
The right to apply the closure has become
part of the standing orders of the M.L. House
of Reps., which struggled along without it
for three-quarters of a century. The inno-
vation broke up a prolonged Labor stonewall
against wage-reduction proposals, though
even after it had become effective great lati-
tude was allowed; the committee stage on
the bill to cut Civil Service salaries 10 per
cent, and empower the Arbitration Court to
review awards occupied 38 hours of con-
tinuous sitting. The closure, had it been
introduced earlier, might have prolonged the
lives of Seddon, Massey and Ward. All
three suffered in health through inordinately
long sittings. Friends dated the decline of
Seddon’s rugged strength from the 90 hours’
committee sitting on the Old Age Pensions
Bill in 1898, when the Premier was never
absent from his seat for more than a few
minutes. He listened to every one of the
1400 speeches made.
THE UNFLATTERING LIKENESS.
“Jack Lang is one of the few representative
Australians in politics,’’— Beasley, M.H.R.
J. BULL: “It won’t do. I met three hundred
thousand Australians years ago and they
didn’t look in the least like that.”
Gandhi has induced the All-India Con-
gress to' sanction his pet plan for socialising
Hindustan. Among the requirements of the
socialistic State as visualised by Shaw are
a highly-educated and truly democratic
people, a bureaucracy immune from bribery
and corruption, and fully-developed second-
ary industries. India hasn’t even the begin-
nings of any of these necessaries. Its ideal
man is a yo'gi sitting on a bed of spikes to
demonstrate his indifference to worldly con-
siderations.
THE CONVERT.
TAXGATHERER: “What’s the meaning o!
this?”
TAXPAYER: “Your boss, Lang, has converted
me. I’ve turned defaulter.”
Arthur Duckliam, of England, who was
here in the Bruce-Page time as chairman ot
an economic commission, told an audience
at Bradford, just before Lang staged his
repudiation show, that there are four rea-
sons why Australia won’t leave its creditors
in the lurch. One of them is that “the coun-
try’s potentialities are almost unlimited.
He attested to this, “knowing Australia as
I do.” A fairly good way to know Aus-
tralia in a hurry is to make the east-west
journey from somewhere near Boulia to the
Indian Ocean and the south-north trip from
the Bight to the vicinity of Tennaht’s Creek.
The aeroplane is' a good vehicle to travel by.
That enables the visitor to inspect the land
with no rain; the region with 10 inches of
moisture per annum or less; a trifle of the
country with nearly 15 inches per year; the
regions of almost unlimited evaporation; and
the limestone lands, which look like a skull
in a large way of business. Unfortunately
the Duckhams and other casual visitors sel-
dom go that way.
“Clifford Snook”: The orthodox observa-
tion made by 99 per cent, of critics is that
the unemployed should be supplied with work
instead of the demoralising dole of victuals.
I favor the dole. By “finding work is
meant the provision of Government works,
and they must be paid for with loan money
as a matter of principle. After the unem-
ployed-relief railway is built it may go on
losing money for half a century, and when
it has been completed there is the demand
that another profitless work shall be started.
But the cost of the dole begins and ends
with itself, and a dole to-day creates no
claim to another to-morrow. A camp of
men on a big relief loan-job is apt to be a
centre of violent political intrigue, but the
itinerant dole-collector doesn’t lend himself
very well to strike organisation and the
humping of Red banners.
“Bildad” : The familiar and habitual cackle
of the moment is that political parties should
be abolished. The trouble isn’t parties,
which are essential, but the people of whom
they are composed. In public finance Aus-
tralians are split into a number of factions.
There is the anti-borrowing crowd, which is
mainly myself. There is the old gang which
advocates loans for “reproductive works,
regardless of the habit these works have of
turning out rottenly unproductive. Then
a more recent gang says that loans are neces-
sary to keep the people from absolute hunger
without mention of the reproductive hypoc-
risy. Finally, there is the repudiation party.
If these parties are all abolished what will
remain? The Protectionist and Freetrade
organisations are both nuisances to heated
folk who think differently, but they are better
than nothing at all. If we have 64 sub-
divisions they make a chessboard and lead
to a heap of argument and difference ot
opinion, and on the other hand if the sub-
divisions are wiped out what remains is a
dashed uninteresting plank. It is a lofty
remark that none should be for a party and
all should be for the State, but the _ schemer
who harps on that string generally adds
that he is the State, and that he is forming
an all-embracing and compulsory non-party
party of blackguards like himself to prove
that they are the State also.


SOCIETU
and it's
printed with
WIMBIE'S INKS
Quartermaster”: The dear old Japanese
clergyman hoarded us at Liverpool; he had
been v over in England attending meetings of
the missionary society to which he was
attached. It had been his second visit to
Europe; the first time he had gone over just
at the end of his student days, when, as he
assured us, his acquaintance with English
was too small to allow him to get much
except wonder out of his journey. He was
still the most unsophisticated Oriental I had
ever met, and his knowledge of English was
—well, more limited than he fancied it. But
he had some, phrases which he loved to
prattle, and chief among them was that
.“ It is my country’s crown of shame that
it is not Christian.” On the way home he
sought and got permission to “take” the
Sunday-morning service. Soon he was on
to his favorite subject—“My Country’s Crown
of Shame.” It was a wonderful thing, we
were told, to be brought up to a knowledge
ot God—to grow up to it; not to have to
learn every single thing about it. “In your
country the little children know God ; He is
part of their daily life. The poorest people
THE CRAZE FOR SPEED.
THE BOARDING-HOUSE POLITICIAN: “Another motor accident, I see. We have a road-hog
every morning for breakfast nowadays!”
THE DITTO WAG: “Yes, quite swines of the times, ain’t they!”
know the blessing of it. Even on this ship
your sailors know about Him. Every day I
hear them say ‘God damn!’ ”
Mir * „ * . * * . ,
iverys : Nobody had a more varied
experience of queer currencies than the
Maonland backblocks teacher in the old
days. For the small requisites he supplied
from the school cupboard he was frequently
expected to accept payment in farm pro-
duce, and there were days when his stock
of turnips and pumpkins suggested a city
market. Then the local butcher was prone
to give Jimmy a juicy steak for the teacher,
while the baker added a dozen smallgoods,
it being understood that no claim would be
made against a parent who sent something in
return for books and rulers. One teacher
in the Far North gathered his fine collec-
tion of kauri gum entirely from children who
brought the staple commodity to pay for
their school supplies, and on the Waikato
River I have seen payments made in both
whitebait and wild duck.
* * * *
“Fusee”: Cabled that the Amir of
Afghanistan has returned to the time-honored
method of getting rid of his enemies by blow-
mg them from the
mouths of guns.
The British em-
ployed the same de-
terrent in the
Mutiny, but to do
them justice they
merely borrowed a
local custom,
though in Europe
in the Middle Ages
it was the occa-
sional playful prac-
tice to hurl live cap-
tives—at least they
were alive when
they started—into
besieged towns
from the huge cata-
pults known as
mangonels. It is a
form of punish-
ment particularly
abhorrent to Mos-
lems. Your Mos-
lem believes in the
resurrection of the
body corporeal, and
he is logical enough
to understand that
the process must be
considerably han-
dicapped as the re-
sult of being blown
from the muzzle of
a field-piece.
“C.Q.”: The I*,
and O. Go. had to
employ a gang of
men for two hours
to rescue a cat
which had stowed
away aboard the.
Cathay, a large
quantity of perish-
able cargo having
to be unoacked to
release the feline.
The motive was
not humanitarian-
ism. The hold had
to be reduced to a temperature of 30deg
below freezing, and a dead animal might have
infected the cargo.
* * * ' *
“Centurion”: When the arch of the Syd-
ney Harbor Bridge was joined the miles
01 steel cables that held the converging sec-
tions suspended during building were coiled
down and stowed away for removal to some
other job. Now an engineer in Brisbane
has come forward with a suggestion that
the cables should be kept in Australia and
utilised for a suspension road-traffic bridge
at Indooroopilly, some miles above the city,
where only a railway bridge crosses the river
The originator of the idea, Walter Tavior’
is satisfied that a co. with a canital of PM) non
could carry out the job, control to pass to the
Government or the Brisbane Council on Hie
return of capital, plus interest at the rate of
10 p.c. p.a., by way of the toll system Tt
is asserted that all the requisite cables "with
anchor plates and other accessories can ho
acquired from Dorman-Long at verv reason
able rates. A bridge of the kind is certainlv
needed; save for a few small punts wheeled
traffic has no means of crossing the river
.between Brisbane and Ipswich, 30 miles or
so apart m a direct line.
lin * *
coreopsis : Railway Commissioner
Cleary opening a dahlia show at Sydney the
otiier day, asked why he never met a girl
clinstened after this gorgeous flower. Pos-
sibly one reason is that it is too near in
sound to Delia, which has been in use as
tar back as literature goes, though deponent
OH, THESE STUPID PARENTS!
“Betty, now, remember—l don’t want you coming home with the milkman”
“Don’t be silly, Dad! He won’t be there.”
is not jn a position to say that any girls
are called Delia nowadays. Anyhow, there
are many other beautiful flowers that have
never been levied on for girls’ names.
“Dahlia,” if utilised for such purpose, would
at least provide our overworked bards with
another rhyme for Australia—there are very
few that can be used effectively. That is, if
the current English pronunciation (“day-
lia”) is warranted, about which I have my
doubts. The dictionaries mention that the
flower is named after Dahl, a Swedish
botanist
# % $ $
“Bouragi”: The lamented death on
Thursday Island of Tom Farquhar reminds
me that the pearl king would have given any-
thing to obtain a specimen of the world’s
rarest pearl—that formed in the coeoanut.
Only about half a dozen have been known;
the last came to light in the Tongas some
years ago. This pearl is
formed in the same way
as that in the oyster or
mussel. It is caused by
the seedling being unable
to escape through the soft
apertures at one end of
the nut devised by nature
for the process. The im-
prisoned shoot causes a
carbonate of lime develop-
ment. Of clear amber
color, these gems are
among the rarest and
most valuable in the
world, though they never
come upon the commer-
cial market.
$ $ *
“Malthus”: A recent
English press discussion
on birth control brought
\an “anti” into the field,
the “Morning Post” in
this case, with a novel
and rather telling argu-
ment. He —or she —
pointed out, to take only
a few instances, that
Shakspeare was a third
child, Walter Scott a
tenth, Tennyson the
fourth of a dozen, Nel-
son the third surviving
son, Wellington a fourth,
Wesley a fifteenth,
Joshua Reynolds a
seventh, Gainsborough a
ninth, Coleridge a tenth,
Dickens one of eight, Darwin a fifth child,
Huxley a seventh, Gladstone a fourth and
Haigh a fifth. Modern ideas would have
been against most of these immortals being
born.
*.* * *
“Jeames”: The badge-wearing habit has
struck Sydney with unprecedented virulence.
Not long ago almost every adult male dis-
played a returned soldier’s or R.S. and S.L.
badge, or the round white disc showing that
the wearer had been discharged wounded
or medically unfit, or (most pathetic of
vanities !) a rejected volunteer’s badge. Now
tens of thousands are sporting A.F.A. or
A.L.A. badges, and, in addition, there are
school, church and ’varsity badges; those
issued on collection days to indicate that the
possessor has paid up; and many more; My
friend I)e Montmorency-,Tones, the cashiered
A.D.C., is disposed to be critical. He regards
badge-wearing as bad form. “Thank God, the
English have never gone in for such vulgar
Yankee display,” he observed pharisaically,
But they have. Time was when every upper-
class Briton told the world about himself
by means of the equivalent of a badge—that
he was an Old Etonian, Free Forester,
Casual, Old Carthusian, member of the
M.C.C., Guards officer, gunner or what not.
Thousands still wear their school or club
colors, and boil with rage at the thousands
who do so unauthorisedly, though the fashion
has declined since straw hats went out. The
odd thing about badge-wearing—a form of
snobbery which is universal—is that every
nation is scornful of all the other nations’
badges. American tourists are just as
derisive when they see a Britisher wearing
an I Zingari tie and hatband (a blinding
spectacle which may still bo witnessed some-
times in the West End of London) as the
object of their contempt is about their fra-
ternity pins.
* # # «
“Lay Preacher”: I read it in my Sunday
paper:—
There is a substantial story that Black Mass has
been celebrated in Sydney; that there was a Satanic
cult here.
Where, you ask, did the disciples meet?
Answer:
In Burton-street, Darlinghurst. The house has
since been demolished and a building used for com-
mercial purposes erected where it once stood.
Well, if you can’t indicate the temple, can
you name some of the worshippers? Answer:
You found in this Sydney group that practised
outrages of blasphemy, men of alleged intellectual
standing, several known inverts of both sexes, a
journalist who was always strongly unconventional,
several drug addicts, and an apostate German priest,
whose recall to the Fatherland in May, 1914 (he
received a message to leave before July), lent color
to the theory expressed later that he was a spy.
Could anything be more unsatisfactory to
a searcher after the truth? I would like to
believe in the possibility of devil-worship in
Darlinghurst. It would be a paradoxical
sort of proof that the Age of Faith is still
with us. But the chief handicap of my pro-
fession is that no one takes the Devil seri-
ously. He has joined the derided company
of ghosts, witches and warlocks. Sydney
will never see another Black Mass, Witch’s
Sabbath or attempt to call up Satan. The
state of our surf beaches and motoring roads
on any fine Sunday proves it.
$ * « $
“Stoke”: No English novelist of our time
wrote more vividly of deathbeds than
Arnold Bennett. The closing scenes of life
seemed to have a fascination for him. The
bedridden paralytic in “The Old Wives’
Tale,” who might have prolonged the pro-
cess of dying for years longer but for an
accident is a figure hard to forget; Henry
Earlforward, the miser in “Riceyman Steps,”
dies convincingly, with a wealth of detail; the
most arresting scenes in “Lord Raingo” are
those around his deathbed. And these are
only three instances of many. The novelist’s
own death, after a fortnight’s fever, when he
was at the height of his fame and with his
powers still undimini'shed, is surely as
pathetic as any he ever imagined for his
characters.
* # * *
“Eureka”: In a N.S.W. court the other
day mention was made of a man at Yadboro,
on the South Coast, who had never been to
Sydney and had never been in a train. It
seems almost incredible, but what about this ?
On the same South Coast a few years agoi I
met an old chap who had seen an aeroplane
but had never seen a motor-car. A ’plane
had flown several times over his moun-
tain _ hut, but as there were no roads
within miles of liis home, and neighboring
settlers supplied him with his few needs
from the little township, he had never had
a chance of seeing a car.
A LAY OF EASTERTIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who’s for a song of Easter? Something
quiet
And restful surety’s in the bless&d word.
Now summer through the land has ceased to
riot
And Lenten days are done, and Lenten diet,
A bard may be by new afflatus stirred.
Some peaceful pastoral would cut the
mustard.
But, hark! What means that wild, defiant
shout?
The lords of Labor, eh? in conclave mustered,
And one contending faction, fierce and flus-
tered,
Tossing the other out!
Who’s for a song of Easter, bearing breath-
ings
Of harmony and priestly benisons?
No season, this, for angry passion’s seeth-
ings.
I’d pen a stave to go with tinkling tea-things
And decorated eggs and hot-cross buns.
But. dash it all! it mars a minstrel’s verses
When all that floats to him upon the
breeze
Are fragments of the commination curses
Some furious Labor Tweedledum rehearses
On foaming Tweedledees.
Who’s for a song of Easter, like the linnet
Might pipe upon an English orchard-
bough?
A sort of blithe contentment should be in it.
I should have caught the motif in a minute
But for this utterly appalling row.
The Lord be praised! At last there comes
a lull in
r The Babel. But I do not care a hang,
mule their unholy juice they stew and
mull in,
If Bang has put the black .spot upon Scullin,
Or Scullin upon Lang!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Yamilla” : The Bishop of Nor’-West Aus-
tralia tells the story. A year or two ago
lie paid a visit to the Kimberleys. Arriving
at the Fitzroy Crossing hotel late at night,
he appeared at breakfast next morning. A
THE MODEL HUSBAND.
NINA: “Joyce knows how to handle her husband. He eats out of
her hand.”
NITA: “Lucky girl! No dishes to wash!”
certain constraint fell upon the other guests,
few of whom had ever seen a bishop before,
and conversation languished until Billy the
Bull-tosser rolled in. Billy was obviously
on a bender. He wore a week-old beard, a
dirty-spotted handkerchief round his neck,
and he was prepared to fraternise with any-
one. He took a seat next to the bishop, and
the gold of the crucifix and episcopal ring
caught his eye and held it. “F’God’s sake,
be careful!” he shouted, pointing a warning
finger. “One of these blighters’ll dong yer
for them!”
* * * *
“Mudurup”: Australia’s youngest univer-
sity, the one fronting the Swan, has been
keeping its 20th birthday and congratulating
itself on having reached a position of com-
parative affluence after a period when every
penny had to be counted twice. In the war
and post-war years it hadn’t even a habi-
tation of its own; its professors taught in
dingy, hired lecture-rooms, and almost its
only regular income was a totally inadequate
Government subsidy of less than £20,000 a
year. The late Win thro p Hackett, who had
most to do with founding the Uni. and was
its principal benefactor, died in 1916, and
thougu he willed to it the residue of his
substantial estate, which included the “West
Australian” newspaper, for a long time it
looked as if there wouldn’t be much residue
after all specific legacies had been provided
for. But the estate was capably adminis-
tered, and in 10 years’ time there was a
very different tale to tell. The paper was
sold and realised over half a million, of
which the University got £425.000 and the
Church of England another £lOO,OOO-odd for
the erection of a college in the Uni. grounds.
About the same time another philanthropist
came along with £60,000, and now handsome
buildings are coming into being at Crawley,
and everything in the garden is lovely.
“C. 11.5.”: It is sometimes forced upon
me that not only the majority of those who
make our laws are ignorant of the proper
use of the English language, but those who
draw up municipal regulations are no better
off. In more than one Australian capital the
rectangular spaces marked off for those wait-
ing for tramcars in the streets are labedcu
“Safety Zone.” A person capable of calling
a rectangle a zone might easily describe a
dog as a cat. Again, when one is told to
“Look at both those things” it conveys that
he is to look at two things at one time. But
our level crossings on the railways are
marked by the sign “Look Both Ways Befor‘‘
Crossing.” Only people with a powerful
squint could obey the order. “Each way”
would be the proper expression.
“Ike Hollar”: Amongst
numerous recent casual-
ties on the Inky Way is
that of the “Australian
Jewish Chronicle.” It was
started nine years ago by
the Rev. A. T. Chodowski,
and enjoyed a good circu-
-lat i o n amongst th e
Chosen, but the struggle
was always a hard one.
Chodowski (he died four
years back) was a genial
and generous soul, a fine
scholar and linguist who
never quite got rid of his
foreign accent. A man
came to him with an
appeal for help and found
the editor responsive, as
usual. “My friend, I vill
gif you the provits of the
paper for the veek,”
Chodowski said. And he
handed over five shillings.
“Adelaide” : S.A. railways are being over-
run with stowaways. The news has got. about
that unemployed rations are obtained on a
more liberal scale iff Adelaide than in other
cities ; consequently Vic. migrants are nock-
ing in on the Melbourne main line, while
those from N.S.W. work down via Broken Hill.
* * * *
“Bill O'C.” : It would be a graceful com-
pliment if someone would take Baden-Powell,
when in Adelaide, for a tiddley at the bar of
an unfashionable pub that once wore his
halo, in a manner of speaking. Standing
on the western side
of Light-square, it
dates from the first
half of the last cen-
tury and was origin-
ally named the Sham-
rock. With the march
of time the city's
business and social
centres shifted away
to the east, leaving
the Shamrock a
wilted vegetable with
no sign of greenness
about it. During the
burst of patriotic
fervor engendered by
the Boer War it
blossomed anew as
Maf e king’s Hero.
But after ten years
or so the second sign
came down in favor
(not inappropri-
ately) of the Colonel
Light, discarded by
another hotel. After
another dozen years
the Colonel seemed
to have no more
drawing power for
beer consumers, and
a .wave of loyalty or
something brought
forth a fourth sign-
board, the George,
which remains to this
day. Though his
greatness may have
waned in booze
circles 8.-P. may
philosoohically re-
flect that, in Adel-
aide anyway, he is
not alone. The Wel-
lington, the General
Gordon and the
Young Queen (this
dating back to the
days of the youthful
Victoria) are hotels
that have long since discarded their original
names for uninspiring labels like the Pro-
ducers’ Club and the Commercial. Only a
Pretoria (at Mannum) remains as a
reminder of the South African conflict.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The Sydney magistrate who
admonished a wife the other day with “You
should not quarrel with your husband in
the street; home is the place for that,” isn’t
the first to make such a well-intentioned
slip. Old Captain Fisher, a bench character
of a former day, had before him a case in
which the husband pleaded extreme provo-
cation for a technical assault upon his wife.
“There are times,” said his Worship
gravely, after hearing the evidence, “when
most men have felt the inclination to vent
their feelings physically, especially when sub-
jected to the annoyance of an acid-tongucd
wife. My advice to you”—and he looked
benevolently at the defendant —“is that when
you feel like that, you should _ go down to
the woodheap and take the axe.”
$ * * *
“J. Lintott”: An odd victim of the
slump is the dragon of the Chinese
New Year. In Darwin he was once
a glorified centipede with a tail that
waggled two streets behind, belching out
pounds’ worth of explosive at one snort.
This year he was a poor staggering worm
with unlit eyes, no inside and very little of
his old caper and verve. Perhaps, however,
Sun Yat Sen must share responsibility with
the hard times. Young China hasn’t much
use for its old diversions. Sunday-night
meetings of the Kuo Min Tang, with spec-
tacled committeemen in immaculate white
suits reading minutes and making solemn
political speeches, have taken the place of
all the “splendid havoc of the East.” Even
the roast pig of the New Year is becoming
distinctly less frequent.
“ Whitehall”: Since Sydney’s fish-retail-
ing trade passed into the hands of
foreigners many of N.S.W.’s choicest fish
have ceased to figure on its menus. Six
varieties appear with deadly monotony in
most city shops—snapper, red bream, flat-
head, whiting, garfish and Murray cod. Wnen
HIS PREFERENCE.
“Now, darling, I'm going away with the light. But don’t be frightened. Remember the
angels are with you.”
“Ur, Mummy, you can take the angels if you leave me the light.”
Chinnerv sold fish in Hunter-street you
could always get Botany sole from him—
and when in condition the Botany sole is as
good as any in the world. He also special-
ised in John Dory, one of the best deep-sea
fish, and black bream, the most delicate of
harbor fish. Here are some superb fish that
you practically never see nowadays on a
city slab: Black rock cod (equal in all re-
spects to English turbot), red rock cod (an
essential ingredient of the celebrated Mar-
seilles dish, bouillabaisse), mullet and red
Mediterranean mullet (luxury fish in Pans),
jewfisli, kingfish, sergeant baker, teraglm and
trevally. Leatherjacket, one of the finest-
eating fish we have, is rarely offered. When
it was some of the leading hotels used to
camouflage it as “sea trout” ! W Inch calls
to mind that, though trout are caught as
freely as Murray cod in the Backblocks, no
one has ever seen a trout on sale in Sydney.
A generation is growing up in N.S.W. which
has literally never heard of many of the
nation’s principal fish —a phenomenon that
is probably without parallel elsewhere in the
world -, * • «
“Say Bo”: Dr.
Thomas Wood, the
English composer
who has been con-
ductin g musical
exams, here, put in
a timely plea on be-
half of the tradi-
tional songs of Aus-
tralia before he de-
parted. He said
that the children of
every country should
be taught their own
folk songs. Many
Australians woul d
probably retort that
we haven’t any, but
the same thing was
believed about Aus-
tralian nursery
rhymes until Arthur
Adams conducted a
symposium on The
Bulletin’s It e d
Pa g e and drew
dozens from all over
the country. The
doctor himself has
succeeded in track-
ing down one liome-
grown song i n
“Waltzing Matilda.”
Ilis researches en-
abled him to trace
it to Winton (Q.) -
where, he asserts, it
was thrown off casu-
ally by “Banjo"
Paterson and equ-
ally casually set to
music by his sister.
“On the Hoad to
Gundagai” he meu-
tio n s as another.
There must be plenty
more, but the caco-
phony of imported
jazz, plus the wail-
ings of local jazz
manufacturers like
jack o’llagan, pro-
vents the indigenous Muse from getting a
note in edgeways.
* * * *
“Silentio”: Curious what things turn up
to keep a man out of a job—or give him one.
In the city office of a sugar company, which
had advertised for a weigh-clerk for the
barges on the N.S.W. Northern Rivers, I heard
a chap baulk at water. He had been as good
as engaged and was about to sign on, and
I was ruefully contemplating the prospect of
the hard old tramp again, when the staff
clerk suddenly asked him if he could swim.
“You’ve got to hop from barge to barge and
clamber about,” it was explained, "and with
the slippery cane it generally means a few
duckings a day.” The successful applicant’s
retort was to the effect that he wasn’t an
adjectival webfooted duck, and as he shot
out of the door hope loomed in my breast
again. Next day I was steaming north to
the job.
“B Flat”: xV visiting professor of music,
lecturing at Sydney, said that all early
rhythms and tunes had been lost to the world
because there was no way by winch they
could be written down and kept on record
the first rude method of notation, it seems,
was not discovered until a.d. 900 or tliere-
abouts. But lie didn’t say why they shouldn't
have been handed down by memory, if they
were worth preserving. I was taught at
school that the poems of Homer were pre-
served for centuries by word of mouth before
it became possible to write them down, and
if this could be done with verse, how muen
more easily could it be done with music when
there were instruments as well as the human
voice to transmit from one generation to
another. Were the wandering minstrels who
recited epic poems which would have per-
ished otherwise incapable of carrying tunes
m their heads as well/
* * *
“L ex ” 0 n blackmail: —
Cabled that Alexander Zoubkofi, the ex-Kaiser’s
brother-in-law, offered to resign his job as potman
in a Cologne restaurant provided a villa and an income
were settled on him. The ex-Kaiser wisely declined.
This is one of the oldest forms of blackmail. A
variant in Australia, where there are few restne-
tions on usury, is for the highflier of a conven-
£",s“ T2?£Z
usually borrows more on the security of his family’s
THE PRODIGAL DAUGHTER.
HARLEQCIN: “When you married you ran away, didn't you?"
COLUMBINE: “Yes.”
HARLEQCIN: “And what then?”
COLUAIBINE : “Oh, then — oh, then we walked back."
sensitiveness, and goes on doing it till the relation
behind the cheque-book is ruined, or loses patience
and tells him to go to the devil. The baffling
thing is that there should be so much money in
blackmail. When John Smith, sen., is first faced
with the impending insolvency of John Smith, jun
he is panic-stricken. But when the inevitable happens
he finds, as a rule, that, far from the family name
being indelibly stained, hardly anyone knows there
has been a bankruptcy in the family. Not one news-
paper reader in a hundred goes through the bank-
ruptcy notices, and many of those who do, fail to
associate the “re J. Smith,” or whatever it is, with
the J. Smith they know. There is even less excuse
for paying up in cases where “improper proposals
are alleged to have been made. The right pio-
cedure is to promise the blackmailers money (theie
are always two) and hand it over in the presence
of hidden detectives. The prosecutor’s name is not
given publicity in blackmail trials nowadays,
client of mine adopted another device. He left e
room, ostensibly to get money, returned with a
heavy stick and disabled his callers in two hi s.
A THOUSAND A YEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
“Twenty years ago Australia was one of the most
contented countries in the world, though at that time
a man with £lOOO a year was looked at almost
through smoked glasses.” —James Ashton in N.S.W.
Leg. Council.
Time was, and it isn’t such ages ago,
Most people esteemed it a pleasure to know
A chap with his thousand a year.
It was freely allowed he stood out from the
crowd
And you couldn’t but feel he’d a right to be
proud.
Yet now they’re as common, I’d have you
remark,
As palings surrounding Centennial Park,
Is there any occasion to cheer?
No fear!
In these dolorous days we no longer appraise
Vast wealth in a thousand a year.
Time was when a litigant seldom would sue
For damages over a hundred or two.
How paltry such figures appear
With writs by the score for ten thousand
or more
Replacing those trumpery values of yore.
Time was when he drew three hundred in
screw
The member of Parliament made it a do
(And some reckoned at that he was dear),
It’s queer!
Now nobody steps to the Senate or Reps
For less than a thousand a year.
Time was we existed in placid content
With more than enough for the board and
the rent,
Not to mention the beef and the beer.
We bade Care go hang with never a pang,
For how could we feature a Scullin or Lang?
But it does seem a lot of preposterous rot
That the higher you’re rated the less you
have got,
Inanity utter and sheer.
It's clear
There’ll be cops to outrun before Theodore’s
done
If you’ve only a thousand a year.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


This watch is designed for hard
wear, and is the ideal timepiece
for country use. Mail orders
carefully attended to.
Fairfax & Roberts ,
Knockabout” Watch
Remarkable Value at a
Reasonable Price,
40/-
This watch is an absolutely reliable and
accurate timekeeper, having a high-grade
Swiss lever movement, jewelled in 15 holes
and a compensated balance. The dial is
bold, and numerals and hands are luminous.
The case is of strong oxidised steel, and
the watch is guaranteed for 10 years, and
kept in order free of charge (breakages
excepted) for one year.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.”
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
ft-FRUIT JU' (
m
■ LIME JUICE
(Made from cultivated Limes only.)
The Sportsman
drinks ‘Montserrat’ Lime Juice be-
cause it keeps him fit and is delight-
fully cooling.
Nature’s healthful drink—strong in
vitamins.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING GROCERS.
Bottled by Schweppes, Ltd., Sydney,
by arrangement with
Evans, Sons Lescher & Webb, Ltd.
SCHWEPPES LIME JUICE CORDIAL
is made exclusively from Montserrat.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Of Vic.’s 31 ex-Premiers, from Haines to
McPherson, eight are still in being, anrl all
in harness. Peacock, Allan and Pren-
dergast are in the Legislative Assembly. The
other five are Irvine, C.J., and Lieut.-Gov.;
Willie Watt, chairman of Dunlops; Law-
son, who is in the Senate and a lawyer in
his spare time; Bowser, who runs his
“Chronicle” at Wangaratta ; and McPherson,
who directs the big hardware concern that
bears his name.
Harry Knecbone, the new S. Aus. Senator,
may count among his other distinctions that
he was one of the numerous editors of the
“Coolgardie Miner.” That enterprising sheet,
which was started in ’94 and was at one
period the brightest exhibit in Westralian
newspapordom, ran for about 20 years.
During its palmy days it had dozens of
editors—so many, in fact, that somebody
once hazarded the opinion that if marshalled
in procession they would have taken ten
minutes to pass any Bayley-street pub, and
somebody else doubted if they would have
ever tried to pass it. Vospei’, “Smiler” Hales
and Jack Drayton were among the jearlier
lot; Knecbone was one of the last, when
he was also mayor of what old hands used
to affectionately call the “Old Camp.” That
was 22 years ago.
F. C. Chichester, the first airman to
attempt to fly solo east-west across the Tas-
man, had a mishap in Lord Howe Island,
and will have to come on to Sydney by
steamer; but he will try again. An
Englishman, Chichester went to Maori-
land after the war, and after knocking
about in various jobs worked up a small busi-
ness. Seized with the ambition to fly solo
from England to Australia he mortgaged his
assets and went to the Cold Land. After
three months’ apprenticeship he flew across
most of Europe, and after six months he got
quietly away for the flight to Sydney. He
had liis fill of bad luck, and broke no records,
but he landed at his destination, to tell the
story of his venture in “Solo to Sydney,”
one of the most engaging air books yet
written.
Harry Darby, mentioned in the cables
as an Australian in custody in Ben-
gal for shooting a native, isn’t an
Australian, although ho is well known
in the Mandated Territory as a lucky
digger. Darby was originally a Barnardo
boy, and after making his punch at Edie
Creek he sent the institution £lOOO as a gift.
He ran away from school and went to sea,
joined the A.I.F. in 1914 and served on
Gallipoli. After the war he was in charge
of native boys who loaded and unloaded cargo
on the New Guinea wharves, and for a time
was native interpreter at Rabaul. He left
there, backed by a German planter, to find
fortune at Edie Creek.
Senator W. J. COOPER, Country party
(Q).
Ernest Turnbull, who was State president
of the R.S.S.L. for five years, has found a new
outlet for his surplus energy as Vic. presi-
dent of the All for Australia League. Turn-
bull’s middle name was not George Washing-
ton when he joined up with the A.I.F. —he
was 16 at the time. H'e saw the w r ar through
from start to finish. Turnbull represented Aus-
tralia at the Empire convention of returned
men, and the World Disarmament movement
reprinted the speech he made on peace on
that occasion. When he is off the platform
the incisive speaker with the piercing blue
eyes manages for British Dominion Films.
He is a son-in-law of C. Herschell, one of
the first men in Victoria’s movie industry.
Walter Carncross, Speaker of Maoriland
Upper House, was born at Bendigo 76 years
ago. He has been in the Leg. Coun-
cil for 28 years; before that he repre-
sented Taieri in the Ho'use of Reps,
for 13 years, and was Whip for Dick
Seddon. The greatest change he has noticed
during his 41 years’ association with M.L.’s
lawmakers is the chop-over from fermented
and spirituous liquors to tea-drinking, a
habit which in the ’nineties was regarded as
effeminate.
.T. J. Kenneally,
wlio as president of
the Federal Labor
party will have the
handling of the ex-
pulsions of the N. S.
Wales Reds, if and
when those expulsions
happen, is a native
of the Ma State and
M.L.A. for East
Perth. He is sec. of
the Loco. Engine-
drivers’ Unio'n and
reckoned to be one
of W.A.’s leading
Arbitration Court
advocates. At the
1925 Fed. elections
he stood for the
Senate and was de-
feated.
The Discovery,
having returned to
Melbourne packed to'
the hatches with
specimens of polar
exploration, will pro-
J. J. KENNEALLY,
Federal President of
the Labor party.
bably be given a spell for a time while the
scientists overhaul the plunder. Some of the
material of former expeditions is still awaiting
classification. Over 2000 miles of Antarctic
coastline were charted by the party led by
Douglas Mawso'n, and a job that was com-
pleted was the identification and charting
of the land sighted by Captain Davis in
1914. It now rejoices in the name of Ban-
zare Land, from the initial letters of the
British, Australia and N.Z. Antarctic Re-
search Expedition.
Six of the official staff that reported
the debates at the Federal Convention
at Adelaide in 1897 are living—Robert
Burns (leader), Oscar Bailey, Fred
Johns, Clarence Moody, Reg F. Sholl and
John Sincock. Bailey and Sholl became
members of the Commonwealth “Hansard"
staff. Johns left the “Register” to lead
S. Aus. “Hansard” staff, of which he is still
chief. Sincock, who has long been Director
of the Government Reporting Department,
is secretary of the committee which prepared
the S. Aus. case for financial aid from th
Commonwealth.
One of the most interesting visitors to th?
Sydney Show was J. T. Scrymgeour, a
Queensland shorthorn breeder; although
blind, he can tell the points of cattle better
than many experts with their full sight. He
can even discern the color of an animal
and the variety of its patches by passing his
hand over it. His father was a notable
cattleman; the son, who lost his eyesight
in the war, launched out on his own on
the Darling Downs a few years ago.
William Mcßeath, dead in Melbourne at
05, cut a wide swathe in the industrial life
of his native State, and gave his expert
knowledge as freely to the service of various
Governments during the war and post-war
years as he applied it to the business of
Makower, Mcßeath and Co'. He was chair-
man of commissioners of the Victorian Sav-
ings Bank, the leading figure in the Royal
Commission which investigated the business
administration of the Navy and Defence
departments (1916-18), financial adviser
to the Commonwealth Government in con-
nection with the A.I.F. (1919), and chair-
man of the Disposal Board, A.1.F., London,
a year later. Finally, he was Australian
delegate to' the League of Nations Assembly
at Geneva in 1924.
“Fetter Lane”: The first and last Lord
Stamfordham (his heir was killed in the
World War), who died last week, aged 81,
had been a Court favorite for half a century.
Queen Victoria found him, and he served
Edward VII. and the present King after her.
He excelled as an eliminator of Royal pre-
judices. Fleet-street has hundreds of yarns
of his tact in moments of crisis. Accord-
ing, to the journalists, George R., though as
democratic as any man in his personal rela-
tions, detests change. Irish Home Rule was
one of his bugbears. “They’re trying to
break up my empire,” he used to complain.
The time came when he had to reconcile
himself to the Free State, and to Ministers
who had fought against his own troops.
Stamfol’dliam is said to have persuaded him
of the wisdom of doing it with a good grace.
H.M. had a profound distrust of Lloyd
George—the Lloyd George of Insurance Bill,
Limehouse, and land taxation ill-fame.
Though he was Chancellor of the Exchequer
when the war began his sovereign hardly
knew him. The wise old Stamfordliam in-
duced George to be friendly to the “little
Welsh attorney,” and before long the latter
became the most beloved Minister—or, at
any rate the most amusing and interesting
socially—the King had known. Such are the
stories they tell of this self-effacing, hard-
working parson’s son, who. though he lived
to be a peer and to receive almost every
decoration in the Royal gift, and though
his home was in London, was not known
by sight to one Londoner in a thousand.
“X.S.”: R. V. Powell, a relative of the
Chief Scout, married Nancy, daughter of
Edmund Jowett. He was working for the
sheep magnate at the time, and to try his
substance Jowett put him on a station at
Mooney Creek (Q.). Powell, who was a
big man, a Cambridge rowing blue and a
champio’n hurdler, built his house with his
own hands out of the local timber. Scout
habits come naturally to the family, appa-
rently, for his hardy ways were the talk of
the district. He preferred the bare boards
of his verandah to a spring mattress and
Shanks’s pony to the station horses. When
he went into the nearest town, Dalby, 35
miles away, he would put his dress-suit in
a kerosene bucket and sprint the distance.
He caused amusement by droving his cattle
from, the- saleyards at Dalby on foot, and
a railway station gate is still shown as a
jump which he cleared with a pair of large
hobnailed boots on his feet and an overcoat
on his back.
“Old-timer” on some N.S.W. families:—
Robert Dalgleish, Australia’s latest Rear-Admiral,
is a son of District-Surveyor Dalgleish, of Dubbo,
who marie a fortune out of Broken Hill and pre-
sently died. His widow, who was a De Lauret, of
Goulburn (a brother and sister still live there),
took her large family to England at the time of
the bank smashes. She there married a member of
the ancient R. C. Bellasis family, and has never
been back since. The eldest son, Alec, married a
Miss Maxwell-Scott (a niece of the Duke of Nor-
folk). After leaving Oxford he bought Pomeroy
station, near Goulburn, and reared a family. His
eldest, and the present owner of Pomeroy, is mar-
ried to the only daughter of the Alec Hays, of
Coolangatta. Rear-Admiral Dalgleish is an uncle
of Helen Simpson, the novelist, whose “Enter, Sir
John,” is now being screened here. Like her mother
- —wife of E. P. Simpson, financial magnate and one-
time champion golfer—she spends most of her time
in London.
•T. J. Graves, lately president of the politi-
cal Labor party in Sydney, has been given a
J.J. GRAVES, chief
wire-puller of the
Labor party in Sydney.
three-year job as
secretary, Bird, his
predecessor, having-
flown to a perch
made for him by
the Lang Govern-
ment. On Graves,
therefore, will fall
much of the work
in connection with
the three-year plan
for turning N. S.
Wales into' a Soviet
republic. Before
“t h e movement”
kept him he was a
stovemakcr employ-
ed at Metters’ fac-
tory ; but his earn-
estness and his
capacity for cnd-
less talk soon
marked him out for
better things at
the Trades Hall.
Unlike Comrade
Jock Garden,
Graves has never
sought any limelight
outside the narrow-
est limits of “the
movement”; apart
from that and an
inclination towards
the ponies, he is
only concerned with
his large family—
nearly a ll girls.
“Brick Court” : My first and only glimpse
of the late Timothy Healy antedates “Inner
Temple’s” by nearly 15 years; it was in
the Parnell Commission (’BB-’B9), where he
was so persistent in his interruptions that
the presiding Judge (Hannan) more than
once threatened to deal severely with him.
Nobody in his wildest dreams could have
pictured “Tiny Tim” in those days as a future
Governor-General of Ireland ; it would have
seemed even a wilder prophecy a couple of
years later, when the riven-asunder National-
ist party was holding its meetings in “Com-
mittee-room 18” of the House of Commons,
and the deposed Parnell, stung to exaspera-
tion by Healy’s hostility, declared that he
had picked the latter “out of the gutter”
to put him into Parliament. But Healy’s
driving power and wit and eloquence enabled
him to live down even that remark.
The most picturesque of Maoriland’s older
generation of civil servants is W. Waddel,
Superintendent of the State Advances Office.
He was a clerk in the S.A.O. in 1894,
when Ward’s cheap-money-for-farmers plan
was started, and climbed steadily, becoming
successively chief clerk, clerk in charge,
assistant-superintendent and deputy-super-
WILLIAM WADDEL, of M.L.’s State
Advances.
intendent. For many years now lie has been
tin 1 permanent head. Though a lot of its
money is out at as low as 4£ per cent,
the department makes a profit; last year it
was £48,730 to the good, which explains the
cheerful mien of the superintendent.
The Salvation Army has lost its oldest
Australian soldier in Robert Hillas, who
passed out at Brisbane. Robert was born
at Yass in 1830.
“J”: Sir Alfred Robbins (B. 25/3/’3l)
was a native of the Cornish Launceston, not
the Tasmanian one. He was never in Aus-
tralia.
George Dowling, manager of the wool side
of Goldsbrough, Mort’s Adelaide branch, is
retiring at 77. He got his early experience
in the London Wool Exchange, but has been
in S. Aus. since 1883, first with Luxmoore
and then with Bagot, Shakes and Lewis till
the Goldsbrough-Mort merger. Dowling
wielded his original ivory hammer from Lon-
don for over half a century, and gave up
auction work only four years ago.
John Wakefield, the oldest living Vic. rail-
wayman, turned 95 the other day. He
started with the Hobson’s Bay co. in
1855, and retired as chief accountant in
1881, when the Government took over the
Vic. private lines. Wakefield tallied cargo at
Sandridge (now Port Melbourne) in the
days of the Lightning, Marco Polo, Red
Jacket and other famous clippers, and issued
the first ticket ever sold at the St. Kilda
railway station. The Government made a
good bargain when it paid him one month's
salary for every year of service with the
Hobson’s Bay co., instead of the regular half-
pay pension for which he put in a claim. The
lump-sum grant was £1200; the pension pay-
ments would now have totted up to £13,000.
The “silent member” is rare on the Labor
side; unless a man talks loudly and often
he has little chance of retaining the party
nomination. But every rule has its excep-
tions, and “Silent Tom” Chesson sat in the
W.A. Assembly for 16 years. To set against
his determined reticence, Tom had some pull
in the fact that his seat (Cue) was always
on the point of being wiped out, and hence
it hardly seemed worth anybody’s while to
try to dispossess him. But it lasted until
last elections, when it disappeared, Tom went
with it. Westralia has only known one other
Labor M.L.A. with such a rare capacity for
holding his tongue. That was “Silent Ware,”
member for Hannans, 25 years ago, and the
adjective settled him in one Parliamentary
term.
The Australian Wheatgrowers’ Defence
Association, formed lately at Gravesend
(N.S.W.), has as one of its leaders W. H.
(Bill) Coulton, one of a family of wheat
pioneers. Bill’s grandfather, a shepherd on
Goonoo-Goonoo station, turned up a couple
of acres with spade and hoe nearly 100
years ago, and sowed the first wheat in the
Tamworth district. When the wheat was
sown the shepherd-farmer drove a flock of
sheep over the ground to settle it. Richard
Coulton, son of the shepherd, sowed tho first
wheat in the Manilla district in 1866; Bill
himself in 1894 grew the first wheat for
grain ever grown in the Warialda region,
incidentally introducing the first stripper
and winnower there. He has seen the evolu-
tion of all the present reaping-machines and
harvesters from the old-faishioned reaping-
hook and scythe.


WB
NOT*
RUBBC9
*EAfcT
“Bolbec” Sliced Plug
A choice Virginian Tobacco of
medium strength, exclusive to
Pike Brothers. Packed in special
containers, 2oz tins 2/9; per lb
21/6.
Pike Brothers
LTD.,
in Queen-street, Brisbane .
THIS YEAR
If ever it was necessary for the man of limited means to con-
serve carefully and to spend wisely, it is now. In most cases
incomes are lower, and in many outgoing is greater, and conse-
quently reduced margins must be provided for.
True Thrift is not only the hoarding of money—it is just as
much a matter of careful, useful spending; but obviously the
saving must come first.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account and use it faithfully.
It costs nothing, but will help you to help yourself.
Cbraonwealtb Bavmasßmkof Australia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
TO SMALL
INVESTORS
A small concern which has been
paying remarkably well is increasing
the scope of its activities. Shares are
£1 each, first payment 5/-, and prob-
ably three calls of 1 /-. On past
records should pay not less than
20%. As only a few shares will be
available to the public, early applica-
tion is essential. Full particulars,
Box 1693 V, G.P.0., Brisbane.
m
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
r Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. (7i p.c.) Ord, serves, serves.
£, £, £ £ £
1928.. 182,090 26,791 Nil 155,299 155,299
1929.. 215,040 73,714 5 p.c. =91,675* 49,651 204,950
1930.. 76,430 75,000 Nil 1,430 206,380
*Declared but not paid.
This co. is tli’e outcome of the plan patiently
developed by the Hoskinses for the estab-
lishment of steelworks on a large scale at
Port Ivembla, on the N. S. Wales South
Coast. A saving of £60,000 p.a. in freights
alone, and a substantial drop in production
costs, were counted upon when the new
works got into full swing.
The Hoskins co.’s assets, at Lithgow and
elsewhere, were taken over for £1,771,400
in scrip—they stood in the old co.’s books
at £2,215,131 net—Dorman Long’s Austra-
lian business, excluding the Sydney Harbor
Bridge contract, was bought for £399,136,
and a heavy steel-rolling mill was purchased
from Baldwins (Eng.) for £168,000.
Howard Smith also became interested, and
£675,000 of pref. capital was snapped by
the public. Incidentally, the Hoskinses,
out of their allotment (1,446,400 ords.),
handed Dorman Long 396,400 shares and
Howard Smith 50,000 shares for coming
into the venture.
Only part of the activities has been thus
far transferred to the Port. The first blast
furnace (capacity of 800 tons pig iron per
day) was blown in during August, 1928.
The steel furnaces are scheduled to operate
this year, after the rolling plant has been
shifted from Lithgow. Erection of part of
the equipment from Baldwins has just been
■completed, and work on the 36in. mill is
well advanced. Also the site for the struc-
tural steel and merchant bar mills is being-
prepared for machines to be shifted from
Lithgow.
Though all this must have added consider-
ably to overhead, results for the first two
years exceeded prospectus estimates. In 1929
enough profit was claimed to satisfy the
prefs. and show 7.7 p.c. on average ord.
capital, and a 5 p.c. div. was declared. But
owing to the sudden change in tlie outlook
it was not paid. Last year private con-
tracts almost disappeared, the various Gov-
ernments and public bodies financed much of
their work on short-term borrowings, and the
co.’s plant eased down as the public loan
money gave out. The profit shown was
little more than one-third of the previous
year’s, and only £1430 in excess of the
pref. div. requirements.
At November 30 the book-value of the
main understaking was only £40,411 less
than paid capital. To carry more or less
liquids totalling £641,637 and shares in other
cos. with a book value of £391,309 the board
had gone outside for £678,768. Here is
the position as balance-sheet figures show
it:—
1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. £2,741,037 £2,976,432 £3,253,007
Sundry creditors.. 475,215 611,116 678,768
Fixed assets .. 2,277,672 2,777,259 3,212,596
Shares other cos.. . 242,918 391,309 391,309
Stocks . . .. 494,361 429,297 430,907
Book debts . . 351,617 280,441 188,652
Investments, cash, etc. 21,695 21,678 22,078
During the year £435,337 was added to the
book value of fixed assets. To do this £276,575
of fresh capital was gathered, £67,652 was
tacked on to the debt and more or less liquids
were drawn upon for the balance. They were
£37,131 short of the amount coming to sun-
dry creditors, including the bank, when the
books closed. The share holdings are mainly
scrip in Southern Portland Cement and
Southern Blue Metal, both disappointments.
There is another £447,000 of capital at
call to finance the work at Kembla. Though
the immediate outlook suggests that the co.
may have a struggle for a while to keep up
payments to the prefs., it operates in a key
industry, and earnings can be expected to
revive immediately things become more
settled.
A year ago the prefs. were at par on the
market; they now fetch 13s. 3d., at which
figure the return is 11.2 p.c. They are
entitled to a cumulative 7i p.c. and have
priority as to capital. The backing amounts
to £3 9s. 2d. in net tangibles, all in plant,
etc., worth what it can earn. The ords. are
not listed.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 102,846 10 p.c. = 75,000 27,846 27,846
1921.. 57,549 7J „ „ 56,250 1,299 29,145
1922.. 4,192 Nil 4,192 33,337
1923.. 37,791 5 p.c. = 37,500 291 33,628
1924.. 51,272 6i „ „ 46,875 4,397 38,025
1925.. 60,806 6§ „ „ 50,000 10,806 48,831
1926.. 56,725 69 „ „ 50,000 6,725 55.556
1927.. 64,104 7.1 „ „ 53,125 10,979 66,535
1928.. 65,141 7} „ „ 56,250 8,891 75,426
1929.. 62,995 7i „ „ 56,250 6,745 82,171
1930.. 60,489 74 „ ~ 56,250 4,239 86,410
A couple of years after this co. took oyer
the extensive island produce and shipping
business of B. P. and Co., it was caught in
the backwash of the post-war boom. The
recovery was prompt, but there has been a
pretty consistent slip in the price of island
produce since. Partly because of this share-
holders have not thus far had much out
of the business —an average of 6.4 p.c. since
the beginning. Nevertheless the board has
been able to wipe £219,309 off the outside
debt and add £263,830 to the book value
of plantations and other property since 1920,
all out of earnings.
Last year the abrupt contraction in prices
—copra, for instance, fell about 30 p.c.—
affected takings from the co.s plantations, its
merchandise sales and shipping revenue.
However, gross profits were only £7077 short
of the peak figure of the previous year:—
Gross Exes. p.c.
Profit. Exes. of Grosa
1925 .. .. £169,632 £108,826 64.1
1926 .. . . 163,457 106,732 65.3
1927 161,785 97,681 60.4
1928 .. .. 181,584 116,443 64.1
1929 . . . . 192,137 129,142 67.2
1930 . . . . 185,060 124,571 67.0
Exes., including something for depreciation,
bad debts, etc., were £4571 lighter. So,
allowing for minor reserve adjustments, the
net result was 8 p.c. on capital as against
8.1, 8.6, 8.5, 7.6 and 8.1 p.c. back to' 1925,
and the div. was kept at 7-§ p.c. It is a
heartening experience in these times.
During the year a small steamer was sold
and another was bought. Also the first sec-
tion of the new concrete premises going
up 011 the co.’s Suva freehold, bought a
couple of years ago, was completed.. Never-
theless there was a drop of £15,333 in the
book value of properties, etc., as this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows : —-
1923. 1928. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 57,058 67,286 85,092 67,104
Proper.ties,
wharves, etc. 190,740 332,955 435,890 420,557
Stocks afloat. . 353,549 229,639 1 „ oon cko
Merchandise.. 179,665 168,510 j 287,613 290,500
Book debts . . 126,148 176,242 189,962 201,302
Cash . . . . 28,083 41,616 60,048 47,055
A further £17,98S was lopped off the debt.
Merchandise and stocks afloat were £3237
heavier, but they were £107,299 below the
1928 figure. Altogether the more or less
liquid surplus (£472,103, including stocks)
improved £17,572 during the twelvemonth.
The co., which is registered in Fiji, is
practically unaffected by the disturbed con-
ditions in Australia; hence the market
prices the pound shares at 275. as against
265. a year ago. At the higher figure the
return is only 5i p.c. on a 71 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing amounts to
225. 4d. in net tangibles.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd.
r Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£, £ £ £ £
1921.. 40,612 1200 121 p.c. = 27,000 12,412 17,426
1922.. 41,338 1200 121 „ ~27,048 13,090 30,516
£36,000 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1923.. 46,600 1200 121 p.c.=31,642 13,758 44,274
1924.. 49,464 1200 121 „ ~31,805 16,459 60,733
1925.. 57,842 1200 14 ~ ~35,728 20,914 81,647
£50,400 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1926.. 64,131 1200 15 p.c. = 42,480 20,451 102,098
1927.. 64,960 1200 15 „ ~46,080 17,680 119,778
1928.. 65,456 1200 15 ~ ~ 46,127 18,129 137,907
1929.. 63,293 1200 15 „ ~46.292 15,801 153,708
1930.. 39,410 1200 llj „ ~34,837 3,373 157,081
This Sydney concern, which was built up
on cash orders, developed into a money-
spinner during the war and post-war boom
period. Over the dozen years to the close
of accounts in 1929 profits more than
doubled, the annual dividend payments more
than trebled, and paid capital grew from
£140,000 to £329,667 by the issue of £182,409
of bonus scrip and 7267 employees’ shares.
The harvests were gathered largely from
scattered loan funds from overseas, which
created a hunger for the things we hadn’t
got and a readiness to borrow to buy them.
But those times have gone, and may never
return; the co.’s past performances, there-
fore, arc not much of a guide to the future.
There was an abrupt contraction of £23,883
in last year’s disclosed net earnings, which
still were enough, after satisfying the pref.
requirements, to show 12.6 p.c. on the ord.
capital. So 3f points were chipped off the
div., reducing it to 11 1 p.c.; and that rate
was made possible by the assistance of in-
come from investments, the board says. Inci-
dentally, to the holder at par the capitalisa-
tions referred to above make Hi p.c. worth
25.3 p.c.; that is assuming, of course, that
he has hung on to his bonus scrip.
What the income from investments
amounted to is not visible in the published
accounts, but over a quarter of a million of
the co.’s funds was invested outside the
business when the books last closed. This
and other features of the co.’s development
show up in the next, comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
1924. 1929. 1930.
Paid capital .. . . £275,005 £328,611 £329,667
Sundry creditors, etc... 40,815 60,923 47,462
Overdraft .. .. 19,182 396 10,233
Property and plant . . 14,152 121,804 121,745
Stock and hire agreements 107,376 166,875 127,692
Book debts .. .. 84,867 82,526 77,12 1
Shares, debentures and short
loans.. .. .. 123,046]
Mortgages . . . . 85,525 j- 219,279 256,974
Government securities.. 19,744 J
Cash, etc. . . .. 274 864 872
Though the purchase of a George-street free-
hold in 1924 allowed the management to
handle much business formerly passed on
to others, it also meant carrying more stocks,
mostly furniture and furnishing drapery—
lines which seem likely to drag for a while.
Stocks and hire-purchase balances are lumped
in one untidy entry in the sheet; at Dec. 31
the two were £39,183 lighter than at the
previous balance. The investment item in-
creased by £37,695. but no hint is now given
as to its make up. The outside debt was oyer
eight times covered by more or less liquids
when the books closed.
The market prices the pound ords. at 225.
as against 325. 6d. a year ago and 545. 6d.
12 months before that. At 225. the return
is 30.2 p.c. on an Ilf P- c - div. basis, or
7.2 p.c. of the distribution dropped to 8 p.c.
The backing is 30s. Id. in net tangibles. The
6 p.c. prefs.—2o,ooo of them—seldom come
on to the market; they are covered by £24-odd
in net tangibles.
Commonwealth General Assurance
Excess Out-
Revenue. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
192-1.. 19,481 4,340 20,186 5,045 13,988
Premiums' on new shares, £449 (net) 13,539
1922.. 45,861 9,316 47,701 11,156 24,695
Premiums on new shares, £231 (net) 24,464
Share-selling costs .. 1,360 25,824
Paid for Co-op. and L.C.A.
Industrial departments .. 16,585 42,409
1923.. 81,519 23,567 70,846 12,894 55,303
From sale of Fire business, £25,378 31,299
1924.. 97,609 33,161 65,822 1,374 56,677
From Fire Dept. ..£3BB 30,911
To Reduction
* of Deficit.
1925.. 77,258 18,648 47,701 10,909 20,002
Added to establishment, £6Bl . - 20,683
1926.. 75,130 12,760 44,129 18,241 2,442
Net unexplained reduction in Reserves, £461 2,903
Funds.
1927.. 80,583 17,504 44,056 19,023 16,120
Added to establishment, £8394 .. 7,726
1928.. 91,531 17,233 56,015 18,283 26,009
Loss on security, £503 .. .. 25,506
1929.. 105,379 14,674 64,585 26,120 51,626
1930.. . 105,505 19,532 62,361 23,612 75,238
This is another post-war stripling which has
done no good for itself or its policy-holders.
At the close of accounts in 1929 the life
fund (£181,087) was £33,240 in excess of
the book value of net tangibles (£147,847).
So, to give policy-holders the protection they
are entitled to, shareholders were called
upon to dredge up an extra £30,000-odd, or
2s. per share, making the 10s. shares called
to Bs. Only £18,531 of this new capital had
been actually gathered at Dec. 31 last, rais-
ing paid capital to £114,097 and leaving
£7116 of calls unpaid. As was to be expected
in the circumstances many shares were for-
feited during the year—the total put into
the discard was 9280 —a reserve of £1772
appearing on this account.
Including £9470 of interest, etc., the year s
excess of incomings over outgoings was
£23,612. This and the fresh capital went
mainly into Government securities and book
debts, as the next comparison shows: —
1924. 1929. 1930.
Government securities.. £10,240 £78,934 £112,155
House-purchase loans .. 10,101 47,821 47,355
Cash and deposits . . 3,556 6,069 2,317
Loans on policies . . 345 2,941 6,202
Book debts .. .. 6,563 10,543 24,832
Owing by other cos. . . 8,778
Agents’ balances . . 8,610 632 609
Shares in other cos. .. 1,107 1,107
Furniture, ears, stationery 4,024 3,744 3,860
£52,217 £151,791 £198,437
Sundry creditors . . 12,696 3,944 4,922
Net tangible assets .. £39,521 £147,847 £193,515
Including premiums paid in advance, the
growth in net tangibles was thus £45,668.
But they were .still £11,185 short of require-
ments. That is assuming that the life fund
(now £204,700), to which £23,612 was added
during the year, precisely covers the lia-
bility under policies. The exact position in
this respect will not be known until the
actuary completes his overhaul, now in
hand. Taking the unpaid calls into the
reckoning, shareholders are liable for another
£36,109; but how much of that could be got
in these days is a moot question.
And heavy lapses, which mean high costs,
have thrown a wet blanket over the prospects.
Looking at each department separately we
get these results :
Ordinary and Industrial Life.
Nominal
Income. Claims. Expenses. Surplus.
1926 f O'd- £22,251 £3,679 1 ~ 129 18.241
1 Ind. 52,879 9,081 ) 44 ’
1927 P r d. 21,540 4,444 1 .. 056 19,023
192 ' llnd. 59,043 13,060 ) 44 ’°° ’
1928 * ord - 25 ’ 993 4,235 1 66 01 5 18,283
1928 llnd. 65,538 12,998 )
1929 f ord - 31,270 4,327 1 „ 4 5g5 26,120
1929 llnd. 74,109 10,347 ) b4 ’°°
1930 Ord. 26,855 7,623 Igg 361
1980 llnd. 78,650 11,909 ) b ’
The amount of new Ordinary business writ-
ten last year (£272,873) was approximately
the same as for the previous term, despite
difficulties. But renewals were only £18,o3o;
whereas renewals plus first premiums
amounted to £27,345 in 1929. Lapses
account for most of the difference. Lxes.
made off with 63.3 p.c. of the net premiums
as against 58.6, 59, 41.6 and 53.3 p.c. back
to 1926, and the new business cost rose to
168 p.c. compared with 157 p.c. and 144
p.c. in 1929 and 1928 respectively. That is
on the generally accepted basis that first
premiums are 10 times more expensive than
renewals.
An extra £2254 of net premiums (£09,181)
was gathered in the Industrial branch. But
exes, took 65.5 p.c. of the lot, as against
72.5, 68.5 and 63.8 p.c. back to 1927; they
call loudly for further reduction.
The position is that unless the business
can be made to show a profit, it may not
be long before all the uncalled capital is
lost. The most satisfactory solution of their
difficulties lies in equitable absorption or
amalgamation of a dozen or so of these
striplings. A fact to which the “Wild Cat
has frequently drawn attention.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jail., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£, a, £ £
1920.. 33.098 10 p.c. = 24,001 9,097 55,072
1921.. 29,019 10 ~ ~26,562 2,457 57,529
Transferred to capital, £12,500 1 44934
Tax thereon, £95.. ..) ’
Loss.
1922.. 14,173 3 p.c. = 8,060 22,701
P rofits.
1923.. 22,302 7 „ „ 20,481 1,821 24,522
1924.. 9,244 3l „ „ 9,660 24,106
1925.. 24,948 8 „ „ 22,080 2,868 26,974
1926.. 23,898 8 ~,,22,079 1,819 28,793
1927.. 20,313 8 „ „ 22,079 27,027
1928.. 8,360 Nil 8,360 35,387
Loss on Maryborough Branch, £12,247. . 23,140
1929.. 10,358 5 p.c. = 13,812 19,686
1930.. 19,651 7 „ „ 19,337 314 20,000
1931.. 4,949 2i „ ~ 6,906 18,043
For the dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1921 shareholders averaged 8.1 p.c. sweet-
ened with £57,514 of bonus scrip. But since
the co. was caught in the backwash of the
post-war boom it has been a struggle to pay
an average of 5.2 p.c. A lot of attention
used to be given to credit business in the
country; but owing to drought and other
causes, it was decided to ease down there
and concentrate on city turnover. That was
about three years ago, and the withdrawal
from Maryborough, which was part of this
plan, alone cost £12,247.
The last provincial branch was closed in
1929. Then, just as the figures began to
recover, the outlook altered. Last year prices
were cut to clear the shelves, and turnover
dropped 12| p.c., mostly in the t.p. section,
while tariff and exchange adjustments added
greatly to the landed cost of imports. The
slip in gross earnings (£131,865) was
£28,556; exes. (£126,916, including £2OOO set
aside for taxation and something for bad and
doubtful debts) were got back £13,854. Thus
the net result withered to 1.8 p.c. on capital
compared with 7.1, 3.7, 3, 7.3 and 8 p.c.
back to 1926. Most of the trouble occurred
in the second half of the term, and since
an interim 2\ p.c. was paid, reserves had to
be dipped into £1957, reducing them to
£18,043 at Jan. 31.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:—
1921. 1927. 1930. 1931.
Capital . . £250,000 £275,993 £276,243 £276,243
Liabilities .. 215,787 202,412 119,950 108,920
Freehold .. 138,327 127,935 139,325 150,527
Plant, etc. .. 23,571 27,895 31,812 36,915
Stocks . . 242,847 220,046 173,495 145,485
Book debts, etc. 111,418 137,849 79,596 57,164
Cash and in-
vestments . . 21,934 5,247 6,381 16,664
The year’s difficult trading is reflected by a
sharp drop of £28,010 in the stock figures
and of £22,432 in book debts, which include
about £20,000 of t.p. balances. The money
thus made available enabled the board to
add £16,305 to the book value of freeholds
and plant, due to reconstruction of part of
the old Queen-street premises, clip £18,405
off the amount coming to trade creditors and
strengthen cash and investments by £10,283.
Nevertheless, the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£110,393) was £29,129 lighter than at
the previous balance. That is including
stocks, claimed to be conservatively valued
and which have been partly protected by the
1 n
(Continued on page 16.)


POINT
s
‘poiid M
BETTER TOBACCO
The finest Virginia tobacco, blended ex-
clusively for use in "'Country Life/' is not avail-
able to any other maker. Hence the distinctive
flavour which only "Country Life" can give.
‘f’omt 2
BETTER MADE
Feel how Firmly a " Country Life is rolled—how
evenly packed. Now light it. Note how easily it
draws—how cool the smoke. Comparison proves
that " Country Life is a better-made cigarette.
m
m
m?
I
m
m
m
m
i
m
m
m
m
m
‘f'oiirf 3
BETTER PACKED
The advantages of better tobacco and better making
are guarded by a better packing. Tissue, tin-foil, a
handy tin or packet and an outer air-tight wrapper,
keep "Country Life" in perfect condition always.
COUNTRY LIFE
V- Pkts.
I'6 Tins
Made in Your Own Country at
The Garden Factory—Raleigh
Park—by W. D. &H. O. Wills
(Aust.) Ltd.
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA
V((ja t'cttes
1497


If Inflation
Comes
What stocks or property would
stand up best in the event of
inflation ?
What can be done with money
to make it reasonably safe?
What would become of investors
in life-assurance policies?
Are there any signs of a world
recovery?
These and many other problems
of most vital interest are dis-
cussed in “The ‘Wild Cat
Monthly.”
APRIL NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 21-
PEB ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coddison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
*** * ,
Pioneer Wood Tanks for the storage of any type
of liquid, possess unique advantages over metal
tanks. For instance, they are absolutely non-corrosive
they are equally efficient for storing water, wine,
the strongest acids or alkalies. They are simple to
erect and will give many years of thoroughly satis-
factory service. Write for full details to the Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Foots-
cray, Victoria. — Advt.
s|* H* sfc
WIRE ROPES— AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
7ho Standard oi Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety f-us-j
Detonators
Cartridges
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet “The Making of a Will.”
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
d
assured positions—better money.
We call set you on the road to better money and an assured piofession in life,
which offers good opportunities if you have any ability and are persevering.
Our tuition gives opportunity to students not to be found elsewhere. Write
for our booklet as to our positions, salaries and fees to-day. Start your new
career now. Those enrolling during the present month receive a SPECIAL
CONCESSION. „ , . _ „
E, C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
\ V
ď
I
LORRIES . .
RUN BETTER
.^THE HIGH
. FEED CUTTERS . . . PETROL ENGINES
and LAST LONGER WHEN LUBRICATED uith
ALEMITE
PRESSURE SYSTEM OF LUBRICATION
rise in exchange, and also £39,000 of 5 p.c.
interminable debentures.
With its public finances in a less shocking
condition, and a recommendation by the
special committee that the sugar agreement
remain in force for another five years,
Queensland may recover from the present
general financial debility sooner than the
other Australian States, provided, of course,
the seasons behave and inflation is kept at
bay. Meanwhile the profit of retailers and
others will largely depend upon shrewd buy-
ing and restraint of overhead.
On the market the co.’s pound shares fetch
11s. 6d. as against 14s. 3d. a year ago. The
return at the current figure would be 8.7
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
21s. 3d. in net tangibles.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net , Dividends , Re-
dan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
12,083
1923.. 9,913 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 6,133 3780 8,303
1924.. 14,734 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 3134 5,169
1925.. 13,749 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 2149 3,020
1926.. 9,714 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 1314 1,706
Reserves.
1927.. 10,583 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 2183 477
1928.. 10,654 8 „ 6 „ 8,542 2112 2,589
Added goodwill, £300.. .. .. 2,289
1929.. 11,261 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,245 2016 4,305
1930.. 12,823 8 „ 6 „ 11,255 1568 5,873
1931.. 2,853 4 „ Nil 2,738 115 5,988
The then 48-year-old hardware business of
D. and W. Chandler passed to the present co.
in 1922. The business has since spread
to Warrnambool. Bendigo, Ballarat, Hor-
sham and Launceston (Tas.). The development
has been largely along mail-order lines, fol-
lowed, when enough business was assured,
by the opening of branches. However, there
is little fat in the trade, and the div., from
which four points was chipped six years
ago, was kept at 6 p.c. till the close of
accounts in 1930.
Last year the co. shared in the common
experience, the recession in gross earnings
(£73,741) being £10,222. After setting aside
£3781 as against £6237 in the previous term
for depreciation, taxation, etc., exes.
(£70,889) were only £252 lighter. So the
prefs. had to be content with half a meal,
and that took all but £ll5 of the net profit
claimed. Allowing for the full pref. require-
ments, the balance of the previous year’s
net earnings was 7.6 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 8.3, 8.5, 8.7, 7.6 and
12.6 p.c. back to 1925. Certainly there has
been a steady inflow of new share capital,
but chief difficulty has been to keep over-
head buck.
To finance the stocks required for the
new branches and carry more book debts,
shareholders put up an extra £51,750 and
the board went outside for a further £57,449
over the last seven years:—
1924. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £125,000 £130,000 £171,750 £176,750
Liabilities .. 15,741 46,557 66,377 73,190
Freeholds .. 25,933 30,625 43,292 43,312
Plant, etc. . . 13,313 24,483 22,100 25,293
Stocks . . 73,628 89,162 135,459 141,404
Book debts . . 24,302 40,144 32,765 30,197
Cash, etc. .. 8,324 1,256 3,150 1,460
■Shares other cos. —■ 16,000 16,000
The firmness of the financial structure as well
as the current year’s results depends largely
upon the figure at which stocks have been
taken into account (£5945 was added to the
item during the year) and upon the sound-
ness of debtors’ balances. To carry the
extra stocks and spend £3193 more than
was written off on plant, the outside debt,
which includes £28,359 on overdraft, was
increased by £6813 last year. Thus the more
or less liquid surplus (£99,871, including
stocks) was £5126 lighter than at the pre-
vious balance.
The prefs.—72,soo of them —are 8 p.c.
cumulative and have priority as to capital.
They are covered by £2 10s. sd. in net
tangibles, but seldom come on to the market.
The ords., which are offered at 155., are
backed by net tangibles with a book value
of 21s. Id.
Keep-Macpherson Liquidation
The drain on finances caused by continuous
trading losses crippled this old-established
Sydney hardware organisation, which went
into voluntary liquidation in February. The
co. represents what is left of the businesses of
Iloldsworth, Macpherson and Co., Ltd., John
Keep and Sons, Ltd., and Hill, Magill, Ltd.;
three concerns which merged under the pre-
sent title during November and December,
1927, in a desperate attempt to meet the
altered conditions in the hardware trade. But
in the next two years trading losses totalled
£89,509, and there was a reorganisation loss
of £19,765 in 1929. So of the £375,107
of paid capital at June 30 last, £109,081 was
represented by intangibles.
After valuing the undertaking at £93,389
below its book value seven months earlier,
tne liquidators at February 12 estimated the
surplus available for shareholders ait
£172,637. Debtors (book value £86,951)
are expected to realise £60,000, stocks are
valued at £136,486, and there is £203 of cash,
making total liquids £196,689. Secured credi-
tors and preferential claims total £123,807;
unsecured creditors amount to £34,821. On
these figures there should be surplus liquids
of £38,061 available towards repaying the
£75,000 of pref. capital and arrears of divi-
dends. After the liquids come £133,688 of
fixed assets, including freeholds (£62,463).
plant (£27,925) and shares in other cos.
(£43,300).
Though realisation of assets may be a
lengthy business, particularly as regards
property arid plant, pref. shareholders
appear to be well covered, there being a
margin of nearly £lOO,OOO over their capital
requirements at February 12. The ords. are
all held privately, chiefly by those in the
business.
Broken Hill Prop, is looking for promising
low-grade shows in Westralia, and has bor-
rowed assistant State mining-engineer Dick
Wilson to assist it in the search. An option
has been taken on tlie Hannans North, at
the north end of Kalgoorlie. This show
was first worked by a London co. Years
later the Great Boulder Prop, acquired it
as. a second string, but after extracting a
fair quantity of gold, it gave up, presu-
mably because costs outdistanced receipts.
* * * *
Bougainville Gold Options, N.L., has been
formed in Adelaide to take over and test a
reefing proposition on the Kupei goldfield,
Bougainville Island, Mandated Territory.
The vendors take £22,250 in paids and
£2OOO cash, and 7000 £1 shares are offered.
There are four. claims aggregating about
21 acres, nine miles (five and a half hours)
from the beach and 3200 ft. up. The main
feature is a large outcrop on a hillside. It
consists of quartz and silicified country
rock carrying gold and silver and copper
carbonates and sulphides. Samples assayed
up to 14dwt. gold, 7.16 p.c. copper and
1.200 z. silver per ton. Colors were also
obtained along the hillside and in the creek
below. However, the extent and value of
the deposit have yet to be determined; work
in this respect is expected to cost not more
than £2500. A good head of water is avail-
able for power.
* * * *
“Gelt”: During 1930 the Morobe (Man-
dated New Guinea) goldfield exported
51,5840 z. of alluvial gold, valued at £117,241.
This is a decrease of 21,0410 z. compared with
the previous year, due probably to alluvial
ground at Edie Creek being worked out, and
adjacent areas being taken for lode mining.
The total gold exported from the Morobe
area since the Mandate amounts to
357,8610 z., valued at approx. £835,856; all
alluvial. Big things are expected when
Placer, Bulolo Gold Dredging and New
Guinea Goldfields commence operations.
Good pannings are also hoped for from
Black Greek and Bitoi River.
<9 w fr St
Return Creek, a Melbourne concern work-
ing a property in the Mt. Garnet district
(N.Q.), registered a loss of £9869 for the
12 months to Aug. 31 last. When the
books closed there was £6056 coming to
creditors; liquids totalled £l4ll. There was
also a contingent liability of £12,570 for
accrued divs. on 50,000 10 p.c. cum. prefs.
After extensive overhaul, the dredge set in
again in May last year. But dry weather ham-
pered operations, and for four months’ work
under adverse conditions 19f tons of t.o. were
got from 71,000 cubic yards. After a short
halt, the wheels began to turn again at the
end of January, and by the finish of February
30,000 cubic yards had yielded eight ions of
concentrates.
* * * *
Developments at depth in the Sons of
Gwalia are surprisingly good, and share-
holders are asked to put up £150,000 to
sink a new main vertical shaft to depth of
about 4000 ft. The ore cannot be extracted
until the temperature is lowered and ventila-
tion improved in the bottom levels. Until the
fire, which destroyed the mill and much of
the workings in 1921, the co. was a regular
dividend payer, but it has since been on the
bread-line.
* * * *
The first run of Princess Royal’s new mill
at Westonia (W.A.) shows the ore to have
a lower gold content than was expected. The
co. began over 30 years ago at Norseman, and
has since wandered over the West looking
for something worth while. A Melbourne
crowd assisted to develop and equip the
Westonia lease; it was a repetition of
the old story of putting in plant ahead of
the mine.
* * * *
White Hope Consols Co. and Ivans’ Co.
have thrown in the towel at Larkinville
(W.A.). Thus far about 2000 oz. in nuggets
have been found on the field by over 1000
men.
* * * *
On the Yilgarn (W.A.) field nearly all the
gold occurrences have been located on the
main granite and greenstone contact. Before
this was generally recognised the town of
Southern Cross was built over the junction
of the two rocks; hence gold has been fre-
quently found on town lots. At present a
pub-owner there is opening up his back
yard, and his chance of success is not an
outside one.
* * * *
Austral Malay and Alluvial Tin, Aus-
tralia’s two leading tin-dredging groups in
Malaya, have come out ahead of it for the
month of March, though profits are nothing
to write home about. Austral Malay has
only three of its six subsidiaries working.
Of these Asam Kumbang cleared £904, with
ore fetching £73. Puchong netted £1470, the
ore bringing £7l at the smelters, while
Pungah, whose two dredges turned over
359.000 yards for 135 tons of oxide, realised
£5382 net, the ore selling at £75 per ton.
Costs averaged only a fraction over 3d. per
yard for the three mines.
Alluvial Tin had eight shows running, of
which three finished up on the wrong side.
The losers were Maliin Nawar, £001; Kun-
dang, £186; Kuala Kampar, £816; the last
dropped 17 days on dredge No. 2. owing to
boiler cleaning and repairs. The profits
realised by the others were Changkat, £933 ;
Itawang, ' £2392; Rawang Concessions,
£1575; Kampong Lanjut, £1983; Kramat,
£3267. All were running with the wraps on
under the restriction of production scheme.
* # * *
Placer Development’s promising youngster,
Bulolo Gold Dredging, already has the hull of
one of its two dredges in sections on the
beach at Lae, awaiting air transport to the
field. Here everything is being made ready
to receive and assemble the equipment as it
arrives. Trial flights of the big Junker
’planes having proved satisfactory, the work
will begin at once. The second dredge is
nearing completion at Poole and Steels
works, Sydney, and will be shipped to New
Guinea presently.
* * * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Position and prospects of Silverton Tram-
way ? —2617.
Co. supplies the 36-mile connecting link
between Broken Hill and S. Aus. railways.
Most of its traffic is with the mines. Only
three of these are at work, and two of them
have given notice to their employees. They
may try to keep going by rationing: one
of their troubles is the world’s large stock
of metals. Rationing will help to reduce
this. The mines still hold millions of tons
of ore, but costs (mainly through short
working hours) are too high to permit them
to be operated except at top metal prices.
There is and can be no other traffic worth
mentioning. The eo., realising this, is building
up a fund for return of capital: liquid
assets in excess of debts amount to about
7s. per share. Shares are worth 16s. 9d.
Divs. 10 p.c. for past 2 years: average 11 p.c.
for past 10 years. But it is a case where
the past is a doubtful guide to the future.
What “loaterings” have there been in
C.S.R., A.M.P. Society, Tooths, Tooheys,
Com. of Sydney and Bank of N. S. Wales?
2574.
C.S.R.: This co. goes back to 1855.
Reserves (£50,000) first capitalised, 1889.
Total bonus distributions traceable to date,
£7,325,000, Total subscribed by share-
holders in cash, £2,425,000. Total cash
returned to shareholders as refund of capi-
tal, £3,900,000. A.M.P. Society: No capital,
no “waterings.” Tooths: Business founded,
1835; co, formed to take it over, 1888.
Bonus issues: 1910, £lOO,OOO ; 1912, £lOO,OOO
in ordinaries and £550,000 in prefs, most of
tne latter from capital appreciation of free-
holds; 1914, £137,500; 1927, £776,975; 1929,
£485,622—t0ta1, £2,050,097. Paid capi-
tal, £5,620,598. (The prefs. _ mentioned
have since been converted into ords.)
Bank of N. S. Wales: Business started, 1817.
No shares have ever been issued except for
cash at par or over. Commercial of Sydney:
Born, 1834. No shares have even been
issued except for cash at par or over.
Tooheys: Present co. formed, 1902. Capital,
£550,000; capital written off as not repre-
sented by assets, £150,000 in 1905. Reserves
capitalised, £37,500. Other issues of shares
have been for cash at par.
How would (1) savings hank deposits,
(2) TP.A. gold-mining shares, (3) newspaper
shares he affected by inflation? What indus-
trials would he (4) benefited, (5) damaged.
—2619.
(1) Savings bank deposits would be repay-
able in the inflated currency. If £2OO in
inflated paper was really worth only £lO
(it fell below that in Germany, Austria and
other countries which have tried inflation),
the depositor would still have to accept it in
full satisfaction of his claim. (2) All such
producers would gain, at the expense of the
workers, whose wages would probably not
advance at the same rate as the value ot
their paper-wages would fall. (3) Depends
on many things; especially whether they
could advance their charges for advertising
and circulation to correspond with the fail
in the value of the currency. (4) and (5) Cos.
would be benefited wbicb had large liabili-
ties, but small book debts and investments
carrying a fixed rate of interest. Large
stocks would be an advantage. Generally
the manufacturer or dealer in low-priced
articles would gain; the people would not
hold money in sufficient quantity to buy
large-priced articles. T.P. and credit houses
would find trading impossible.
(1) Are there any radio or electric mineral
'prospecting instruments to he got locally and
the price? (2) Would they indicate wash
dirt or lost reefs or platinum? (3) Any
hooks on the subject? —2392.
(1) In recent years there have been
developed electrical methods of prospecting,
particularly for ores of the base metals,
copper, lead, etc. The apparatus cannot be
obtained locally and is complex, costly and
demands considerable special training on
the part of the operator. (2) Not suitable
for location of alluvial gold and platinum.
(3) “Applied Geophysics in the Search for
Oil and Minerals,” by Eve and Keys, 155.;
N.S.W. Public Library has a copy.
(1) Is there any demand for good opal?
(2) Would a newehum make wages on one
of the known fields? (3) Necessary tools?
(4) Any better fields than Windorah in
Queensland? (5) Any hooks on the subject?
(6) Would you advise to hunt for any other
kiwi of preewus stone or metal? —2145.
(1) Yes. (2) Not likely, at least until
he had some months of experience . (3) Opal-
bearing- strata are soft and generally mined
with pick and shovel. Explosives are rarely
used. (4) Windorah offers as much induce-
ment as any other field. (5) “The Opal-
mining Industry,” by C. F. V. Jackson
(Queensland Geological Survey Publication
No. 177), is out of print, but may be con-
sulted at the Queensland Geological Survey
Office, Brisbane, and in the public libraries
of the capitals. (6) Not on the opalfields.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
N.A.C. : See “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” Sept.,
1930. One of the soundest of the smaller offices.
Thus far bonuses have been paid only on death
claims; another actuarial examination is due this
year X.Y.Z.: A gamble, not an investment
D.C.R.: Formed late in 1929; still in the develop-
ment stage. Purely speculative L.M.: (1)
Official land valuations are useless at present for
commercial purposes. (2) It will not again touch
1928-29 prices for years. (3) Very expensive hold-
ing if unproductive... .E.P.J.: Waste of money.


? ft
P
.
m
wms
■
ILtAiS
ffl
j
.sK.S«
y
«8
Jf/'C
■
fwifi
Kg
hh
ms
m
iSSSrrt
wm
mm
fiSVE
BKf
38S
mi?.
m
fe
«.•<
sm
m
bm
*.{•»■•/ /.: •/•y&xSyicjf'fybt'y
": ■ , il .:• , .• •:•■ •• :-J ; -’>£'
:..<*;• t ; ;; ?; :.•’.t-.»i; r/".* >‘ f •
■& - 'J' i
{ •% - * l 't ~ ■»''- v 'v <" J
4 5 * #k, j
I\>,\
oils;
w&Bifim
T>«
i
*»
s» j«. $
«V ->i*
v<**
1
<S
✓
fi*>A\l
Inferior petrol containing kerosene
fractions doesn’t vaporise completely.
Drops of liquid pass the piston
rings into the crankcase, causing oil
dilution and seriously affecting the
lubricating value of even the best
lubricating oil in the world. It’s even
worse with cheap oil. Then Friction
starts its deadly work.
You may think you save £2 or £3 a
year buying cheap, inferior petrol and
oil BUT your depreciation and un-
necessary repairs may run into £5O or
£lOO a year.
Protect the life and efficiency of your car by using
PLUME
and
Mobiloil
REG*
Famous for Highest Quality and True Economy
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
IPS


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Dearest Enemy”
Criterion “The First Mrs. Fraser”
Stat 4 Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal (com. Saturday) “The Gondoliers”
Comedy ‘‘On the Spot”
State Movies and Talkies
«
A Bloke at the Show
He stood alone at the Sydney Show; tall,
thin, brown, strong, yoUng, wiry. Past him
swept the crowd without noticing him, mostly
without even looking at him. It knew him
not.
Once a girl, decked out in extraordinary
green overalls, loo’ked over to where he
stood, leaning against a beer sign, thought-
fully chewing the end of a straw. But aer
glance was in interest only. She had no
intelligence of him.
His face was thin, sun-withered, so that
its 25 vears looked like at least 30. Out
of the track-
less West he
had come
to Sydney
Show, not as
the rest of
these had
come, hungry
for its theatri-
cal promise—
the rollicking
spectacle of
the fat little
chubby pigs,
the pyramids
of apples and
pears, the tall
houses of
honey, the
bananas speci-
ally bent by
the expert
benders of the
Far North,
the incredible
pumpkins, _ the
w i n d mills
“He stood there and waited drawing their
... .a Man with a Mission.” yellow and
blue and
green water up and down, the Fat Lady on
her ancient site, the great hall full of mon-
strous fowls, the clack and muscle of the
woodchops, the glittering run of the trots.
With all this about him, he stood alone
and quietly chewed his straw. The day, all
blue and gold about and above him, may
have known, but none of these hustling
others knew. He stood there and waited,
with the patience, though no trace of the
arrogance, of a Man with a Mission.
He had, of course, takes in the Show.
He was not an aesthete altogether. If you
looked at him clo’sely you would catch the
cold clear light of the zealot in his eye, and
when he walked about the busy lanes
and over to watch the Grand Parade in the
ring it was with a prideful and somewhat
proprietary step. But the casual glance re-
turned only a thin, hard, firm young man,
as visibly Australian as if he had it liter-
ally written on him. He did not look bushy,
in the ordinary and fallacious sense that
to look so means to look also a little vacant.
The man who tried to sell him a tracto'r knew
very well that he did not come from Surry
Hills, and knew also that for all his
simple appearance he might possibly have
a use for a tractor, and perhaps the means
of paying for it —if not at the moment,
at any rate when the crop came in. It was
simply that the open, clean, outdoor and
sunny life had put its mark on him.
He had stood down among the sideshows
for a full five minutes, staring in a bewilder-
ment of amused interest at the spectacle
of a man with a triangle of rabbit-
fur pasted crookedly on his chin; a dis-
colored tropical helmet, a size too big, push-
ing down his ears; a long flowing grimy-
white coat with spangled facings gathered
about excellent belly with a seedy-green
sash; trousers fastened about ankles with
bicycle clips; dancing pumps overrun with
cracks; black tin megaphone dangling, fro'm
fingers glittering with glass. This appari-
tion had spotted him, and marked him for
its own; had buttonholed him, and, in a
voice meant as much for the passing crowd
as for himself, had relieved itself of some
such patter as this:—
“You will spare a minute no\v to inspect
something which is the best line in the world
for meeting the present situation. Here,”
pulling from pocket a gadget like a rubber
clothes-peg, and slipping it into its mouth,
where it gripped the cheeks inside and held
the lips stretched in a permanent grin ; “here
are the goodth. And you obtherve ydu can
talk quite naturally with it. Ith only a
matter of getting uthcd to it, and inthead of
people thnooping about the way they’re
doing, with fatheth ath long ath a blethed
thathkapho'ne,” he slipped it dexterously out,
“everybody can look as if he’s having a regu-
lar good time and doesn’t mind paying for
it. Now take Mr. Lang. If you read the
newspapers you’Jl see that he and Mr. Scul-
lin tried to bury the hatchet of peace in each
other at the official Show luncheon. Well,
afterwards they came specially to me and
were fitted with these marvellous Depression
Arresters. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer
you this marvellous line of children’s novel-
ties at the special cut rates of three for a
shilling.”
At first the man who was now leaning
quietly against the beer sign had been em-
barrassed. Then the childlike catch in it
bad won him over. There were three of
them now in his pocket. Perhaps when he got
back 'lie would give them to Mary’s kids,
or put one of them over on old sour-face
Sanderson the storekeeper, or maybe throw
them out the train window.
Anyway, he was not thinking of them -as
he stood there, nor of the surprising spec-
tacle of the great hall that every other year
had been filled with girls and others selling
fairy foam and studs and baking-powder
and fruitdrops and ticklers and other such
lethal weapons, all peaceably laid out this
year with howitzers and Lewis guns and
fighting aeroplanes and tanks and bombs and
Shrapnel-shells and bullets and field surgi-
cal operating-tables and chaps marching
about in uniform. He was not thinking, either,
of the girl who had made the chestnut take
the hurdles like an arrow, though she had
been one of the thrills, nor of the girl on
whose behalf a spruiker offered “a quid if
you can kiss her.” Watching the Chinese con-
jurers had been another kind of thrill, the
fights in Sharman’s tent had been another
kind, Wizard Smith’s car and the other
Smith’s ’plane had been others, and there
had been yet another kind in the megaphoned
assurance that the group of four, adorned
in leopard skins outside one tent wore din-
kum Zulus, and not, as he had thought,
common or garden abos.
There was thrill really in the whole of it,
because, though he had seen it all before, it
was all as new as ever, from coming in
through the turnstiles to going back to the
city in a tram crowded with people loaded
down with flaring and bursting paper market
bags, filled with the sort of goods the Show
brand of vintners sell. But he did not get
excited about any of it. He took it all as
it came. He was not there to see the Show
really. That was incidental; Sydney’s, and
in a way the State’s, bust-up, not his.
It was, he had subconsciously decided, a
darned good Show, though, with the same
sort of subconsciousness, he had thought
there was not the usual kick somehow about
the sellers of whatnots or the _ sideshow
people, or the crowd itself. He voiced those
feelings in his own particular way when, as
he stood there, a figure something of a twin
brother to himself detached itself from the
passing stream and went up to him. with
a brown hand stretched out and a “Strike
me, if it isn’t Andy Mason! What d’you
think of the Show, Andy ?”
He replied: “Not too bad, Jack. A bit
slow, but taking it all round I think it’s
all right. Where are y’ hanging out these
days, Jack? Still in Queensland.”
“No,” Jack told him then, “I’m trym’
out the North Coast. Are y’ still out Bogan
way?”
“Still there,” said Andy. The light of mis-
sionary zeal that might have been noted
in his eyes earlier burned momentarily
brighter. He made an effort to seem casual,
but his chest swelled a little and there was
a flicker of pride in his face as he gave
Jack the secret he had held there ho himself,
standing alone apart from the Show.
“I come down,” he said, “to have a shot
at the steer-ridin’ competition.” There
wasn’t the faintest hint _of
bragging as he added, “I think
I can pull it out.”
Nor was there anything of
flattery in Jack’s voice as he
said, “I reckon you’ll give ’em
ago for it. Feel like a thirst-
quencher?”
He lo'oked even more like a
man with a Mission as they
moved off to an address more
substantial than the beer sign.
V
The biggest crowd that has
accumulated in the Audi-
torium for many years list-
ened to ,Clara Butt and Ken-
nerley Rumford open their
umpteenth Melbourne season.
Dame Clara needed only _ a
couple of ebon slaves with
peacock fans to complete the
impression of an Indian be-
gum giving the entire State
regalia an airing. When,
owing to lameness, she low-
ered her impressive frame
into a chair and opened out
with the “Divinities du Styx,”
of Gluck, the sitting posture
made the effect even more
staggering. A female body—even one like the
Butt’s —has no right to a voice like that.
It belongs properly to an oracle. It stormed
through the “Stornellatrice” of O. Respighi
and steam-wliistled through “The Silent
Night” of Rachmaninoff. Anon it was
genuinely musical in “The Hurdy-Gurdy
Man” of Schubert, a songwriter who makes
all the other composers seem like amateurs.
Dame Butt still has sufficient control over
her vocal powers to make a wide range of
ditties interesting, from stern Italian drama
to quaint Japanese bric-a-brac. In a couple
of Handel numbers Kennerley Rumford
needed all his well-known art of accent and
declamation to conceal the fact that time
has somewhat dulled the lustre of his bari-
tone ; but his humor was as fresh and natural
aS ever ’ * * *
Melbourne Town H'all was pretty nearly
packed with people anxious to enjoy the
privilege of seeing an eminent seadog in
evening dress and hearing him discourse on
the war-time doings of a section of the
Silent Service. Rear-Admiral Evans’s
lecture on “The Dover Patrol” had all
'the elements of a popular success. It
was a first-rate adventure yarn told by a
“Held the lips stretched in a permanent
grin.”
participant with' a sense of the dramatic and
a gift of humor. A quite ordinary remark
may pass as a startling epigram when it
is uttered by a man who is liable next
moment to have his head blown off. War-
time wit was largely of this variety, a fact
of which Bairnsfather took full advantage.
Nothing marred the Admiral’s two-hour
speech but the bad acoustics.
A considerable degree of faith, hope and
charity is necessary to an appreciation of
Wagner’s “Parsifal” at a first hearing, even
when the conception of the composer is
rounded off with scenery and costumes. It
is necessary to assimilate the fact that tin;
notes x, y, z, given certain positions and
values, represent the holy grail or something
equally esoteric, and that various other
symbols represent other things; neces-
sary to have faith that these really
do represent the things they are sup-
posed to, sufficient charity to credit
tlie great Richard with knowing what he
was driving at, and a sustaining hope that
one’s intellect will prove equal to the strain.
In the case of an oratorio performance of
selected excerpts such as was put on at
Sydney Con. the other night very rugged
moral attributes are required on the part
of a successful listener. This Showman con-
fesses that he doesn’t measure up to the full
standard, but he was impressed by the rich
treasury of gifts Wagner conferred upon sub-
sequent orcliestrators in this, his swan song.
The orchestra, though it might with advant-
age have been heavily augmented for such
a task, got the spirit of the music; the choral
passages, including the share undertaken by
two companies of boys, were effectively ren-
dered, and the soloists, Spencer Thomas,
Vladimir Ellin and Richard McClelland,
acquitted themselves with conspicuous gal-
lantry. Dr. Orchard’s baton had a compli-
cated path to pursue, but it never lost its
way. The audience was provided with sail-
ing directions in the form of a prolifically-
annotated programme, and if there had been
a chart as well it would have come in handy.
Three tiptop headliners —Janette Gil-
more, Charles Sylber and Athol Tier—are
mainly responsible for the second Ernest
Rolls show at Sydney St. James, “Laughing
Eyes,” being better than its forerunner. It
is much less patchy with one or other of
these three pretty well always on stage.
Miss Gilmore is perhaps the gayest figure
on the Australian boards at the moment. She
is brisk and snappy, with a good comedy sense.
Also she can dance, not merely move about
the boards. Sylber, always a busy little chap,
has one turn, set in the fireside scene from
“Rose Marie,” which nearly wrecked the
house the night Tiie Bulletin saw the show.
Tier returns to Australia a polished and
“Sydney’s, and in a way the State’s, bust-up.”
different comedian. He could get laughs at
a conference of the Loan Council. The show
has the usual Rollsian supply of bald women,
a catchy song or two and the customary
items for the luslily sentimental.
¥ * *
The new navigating officer of Melbourne’s
civic organ, William McKie, put his music-
box through its paces before a good house
the other evening. The young Victorian
showed throughout a sensitive disposition to
let the great composers tell their own story
in their own fashion, unlike the eminent pro-
fessors of the city Wurlitzers whose im-
provements on the Old Masters are broad-
cast on Sundays. It isn’t often that organ-
playing raises an audience to enthusiasm,
but Handel’s “Variations on a Ground
Bass” was wanted a second time, and Bach’s
Fantasia and Fugue in G minor was followed
by an ovation. The graceful execution of
Cesar Franck’s “Pastorale” confirmed the
suspicion that the new incumbent is equal to
his job in all departments.
The reversion to old-time vaudeville at
Melbourne Tivoli brings with it the Dele-
vantes, who throw themselves about in a
sufficiently alarming manner; Sam Stern,
an English comedian with a gift for hit-
ting off Yiddish types; and Louise Lovely.
The last-named is the vivacious superinten-
dent of “A Day in the Studio” wherein sun-
dry self-conscious members of the audience
are instructed in the art of posing before the
motion-picture lens. Doctor Richard Rowe
and Mystic Mora undertake to answer ques-
tions written down secretly by spectators in
the house. The present scribe wrote on his
programme, “I am a dramatic critic. What
am I going to say about your turn?” Neither
Dr. Rowe nor Mystic Mora deigned to notice
his existence. A good show.
* * *
Horsey readers of this page down for the
Show found something to their taste at
the Glaciarium, where Wirths have a classy
Russian riding act. The riders do not go
round at the customary circus canter ; they
move —so much so that it needs a couple of
inspections to really gather how many dif-
ferent stunts they crowd into the turn. One
of the gentle games is to slide over the saddle
to the off and, without touching the ground,
follow the surcingle round, underneath and
up the near side into the saddle again. And
that while the horse is tearing round at a
pretty good bat.
# # *
Nat Phillips, Sid Beck, Joe Lawman and
the rest of that bright brethren continue to
do good business at Sydney Opera House.
At the moment they are mostly Spaniards,
imported regardless of cost from Madrid,
Glebe, Botany and other historic parts of
Spain, or else they’re Matadors from ancient
Rome. It matters not. The .show is as
breezy as ever and loud with laughs.
Oast of “The Gondoliers,” opening at the
Royal, Melbourne, on Saturday: .I v 5, n leu ‘
zies as Duke of Plaza-Toro, Marie Bremnei
as Gianetta, Gregory Stroud as Giuseppe,
Dorothy Gill as the Duchess, Alban v\ hite-
head as Luiz, Ralston as Don Alhambra and
Leo Darnton as Marco. Slap, will wield
the baton. It wouldn’t be a G. and
season if he didn’t.
“Dinkum Zulus.”
Adelaide hopes to date a revival in theatri-
cal affairs from the big support being given
to G. and S. at the Royal. Darnton, Ralston.
Stroud and Menzies are a strong team, and
in “The Yeomen” Bernard Manning gets his
chance too. But the chief feature was the
improvement in the younger women. Maisie
Ramsay and Mary Ilotliam “let themselves
go” as the two heroines, and their future
seems assured. Dorothy Gill is a fine con-
tralto, the male chorus was impressive, and
the two grand-opera “curtains” to the tragi-
comedy went as well as ever, with Ivan
Menzies dominating the final scene.
* * *
At time of writing the two Williamson
shows —“Dearest Enemy,” at Sydney
Majesty’s, and “The First Mrs. Fraser,” at
the Cri. —are doing merited business.
Poverty Point
“Cauboy” : A recent arrival at Melbourne
Tivoli, the Whistling Boundary-rider, gives
some highly accurate imitations of the
sounds of the bush, but when his muse comes
to town it is as much at sea as the city
actor who essays country roles. After draw-
ing the cork of a bottle of champagne lie
pours it into an imaginary glass with telling
verisimilitude. The effect is somewhat spoiled,
however, when he tops it up with sodawater.
“Spokeshave”: The art of the cinema is
probably the most ephemeral in the history
of the world, yet it is slowly creating its
classics, even if there is only one immortal
on the register up to the present. Needless
to say, he is Chaplin. A Bourke-street house
has lately been delving into its archives for
some of the old master’s earliest farces. It
is astonishing how well they wear and how
ready the public is to admit their merits.
“Ilamfat”: A. C. Winn, for a while secre-
tary of the Australian Actors’ Union, staged
in New York the only Shakspearean produc-
tion ever put on with a complete cullud cast.
Tree, about to descend upon the City of
Dreadful Skite, sought to create interest in
his own show by encouraging performances
of acts from Shakspeare in honor of the
Shakspearean tercentenary, and Winn staged
“Othello” at the Lafayette Theatre in cos-
tumes lent by Tree. The cast was amateur,
Othello was played by E. Sterling Wright,
who at one time won fame as the colored
Minister for Education in New York. Actu-
ally, most of the players had more white
than black blood in their veins, but they
had sufficient of the dark to have the color
ban raised against them.
“Adam Ant” : Most of Jimmy Atholwood’s
long stage career was spent under the Firm’s
banner, but he learnt his business years
before his first J.C.W. engagement, Servilius
in “The Sign
of the Cross”
at the Mel-
bourne Prin-
cess's in ’9B.
Jimmy studied
S li a k speare—
he was then a
South Mel-
bourne plumber
—under Hos-
kins, the tra
gedian, and
had his first
real go with
Geo. C. Milu
at the Mel-
bourne Opera
House now
the Tivoli —in
1889. He then
“The Fat Lady on her
ancient site.”
played a round of Sliakspearean parts,
and later on made a creditable shot
at Romeo. He was the best char-
acter actor on the Australian stage; such
widely differing parts as Daniel Jaikes in
“The Silver King,” Moriarty in “Sherlock
Holmes,” David Wylie in “What Every
Woman Knows,” Napoleon in “Royal
Divorce” and Nero in “Sign of the Cross,”
as well as a hundred others, were finished
portraits at his hands.
“Craiser”: It is a popular grumble that
our musical suppliers never bring us any-
thing fresh, and a glance at the list of
virtuosi promised for this year would tend
to confirm the view. Still, there is some-
thing to be said for the Gravestocks. the
Carrolls and the Taits. On the whole, it
would be difficult to apply the methods of
the press-gang to Rachmaninoff, ’cellist Casals,
Cortot, juvenile fiddler Menuhin and Godow-
sky. According to Melbourne critic Thorold
Waters, all these have been invited to make
the trip and have more or less politely
refused. Rachmaninoff actually signed a
contract seven years ago, but has put off
the date from year to year; and Mattia Bat-
tistini, the eminent baritone, dislikes the sea
so much that he won’t even face the journey
to the U.S.A.!


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
THE KID.
“But, Mummy, I’m hungry!”
The Political Personnel
Dear B., —The failure of both Federal and
State Governments to deal with the wasteful
overlapping and unnecessary expenses in
their administrations is attributable mainly
to the methods practised of selecting Parlia-
mentary candidates. In the days preceding
preferential voting there existed obvious rea-
sons for political bodies to publicly brand one
particular individual as the goods for the pur-
pose of avoiding the cranky incidence of
simple majority rule, which invited minority
representation. Prior to preferential voting,
the Labor party, by a hard and fast selection,
avoided split-voting, and the party won many
political contests by the very positive nomina-
tion of their standard-bearer. The intelligent
supporter of Labor assumed that with the
advent of preferential voting the selection
methods would be unnecessary. Instead, the
usurpation of the people’s function to choose
the candidate is more pronounced than ever.
Anyone whons intimate with the practices
knows that rigging, trickery and “influences”
creep into the game. Faked membership and
organised underhand canvassing, where the
conditions are favorable, are introduced. The
Mahony scandal is typical. Scullin’s selec-
tion for Yarra by his defeat of Holloway and
Hannan was “influenced,” and was winked
at. by those in the know. The scheming in
progress to get Matthews’s Port Melbourne
seat is nothing unusual. Every Labor mem-
ber of Parliament knows of these practices,
but he dare not adversely criticise the
machine’s methods out of respect for his own
skin.
These methods of course affect the person-
nel and character of the nominees. But with
an arrogance and impudence that incredibly
goes down with the Australian elector, these
cliques dictate that anyone opposing their
choice is a “scab” and a “traitor.” Thirty to
a few hundred leagueites decide whom 30,000
electors shall vote for. Trades-union secre-
taries and ex-trades-union secretaries are the
masters of this rigging. This criticism applies
as well to the Nationalist crowd. Electors
are forced to accept nondescripts, place-
hunters, gift-of-the-gab nonentities, the
choice of the cliques.
It is all wrong; it breeds time-servers and
place-hunters. The only remedy is to make
it a criminal offence to thus steal away the
privilege of the electors. —Yours, A Vic-
torian Laborite.
“Must Have” Is Dead
Dear Bulletin, —Why not insist on a full
working w T eek in return for sustenance,
the men to be employed on public works?
If there is such a thing as a reproductive
public work, let them be employed on that.
The conditions of such wrnrk should be the
same as in private enterprise. Unsatisfac-
tory employees should be dismissed.
The Government is the State’s largest
employer, and theoretically does not compete
with private enterprise. (Consequently a
sustenance rate would not affect the general
public by unfair competition.
Financing such a scheme should present
no great difficulty, for a single man can live
and work on one pound per week if he has
no rent to pay. I know, because, although
a so-called capitalist, I have been living
for less than that on my station in West
Queensland. Moreover, although formerly
a heavy smoker, I have had to do without
tobacco. The time when a man could talk
about what he “must have” is gone.—Yours
truly, D. Macicay.
A Sliding Scale for Wages and Interest
Dear B., —If we based our wages on the
prices received for our primary products,
when wages were low cost of living would be
down, and the converse when prices were
high. You would thus get a stabilised value
of wages. Over and above this you would
be making the worker a true partner in the
prosperity of his country.
The same basis could be applied to in-
terest ; at least in regard to future borrow-
ings, etc. Future internal loans would be
issued on a sliding scale: when prices of
primary products were low interest would
be low; when prices were high rates or
interest would automatically go up. So
interest on capital would be also given a
stabilised purchasing value. If this were
made to apply to mortgages also, the result
woukl.be that when prices were low a farmer
would pay less in interest and wages; on
the other hand, the capitalist and worker
would be no worse off, as the cost of living
would be down. —Yours, Billjim.
What Australians Should Know
Dear B., —“S.N.R.” (B. 25/3/’3l) hits it
off nicely when he suggests six plain truths
that might with advantage be imparted to
the rising generation. H'e might add a few
more:—
(7) Ours is a country of very uncertain rainfall
and,
(8) The most remote from the world’s markets.
(9) It is not natural nor conducive to progress
that the unskilled man who carries the bricks should
be paid within a few pence a day of the skilled
man who lays them.
(10) Young girls in Sydney factories earning rather
more than most young doctors, lawyers and parsons in
the Old Country are not likely to spend their earnings
wisely, nor to “put by” for their old age.
(11) That it makes little difference to a man
whether he earns £4, £5 or £6 a week if he is
going to take the lot to the races—and leave it
there.
(12) That in Australia State-run enterprises have
proved the same dismal failure as in every other
country where they have been tried.
(13) That Australia does not necessarily rhyme
with Failure—or with Success. It depends on the
Australians.
Once the youngsters have got that lot by
heart, there are a few more to which they
might direct their attention. But long
before that time comes, I suppose, we shall
be in the middle of another boom, and a
new lot of vote-catchers will be on the old
soap-box giving them the pleasant fable of
the Unlimited Resources and the Favorites
of Heaven, and they will swallow it just
as we did; each new generation being about
as gullible as the last —“education” not-
withstanding.—Yours, Sense.
Marketing Costs
Dear B., —A subleader (B. 11/3/’3l)
shows that “of the value of the product as it
leaves the factory, materials consume 56.83
p.c.” (based on Wickens’s figures). One case
cited by a Bulletin correspondent is: “A
pair of fine wool socks weigh 20z.; here in
Queensland the cheapest retail price is
2s. 9d.” Taking wool at 2s. per pound, and
assuming that 2s. worth of other raw
materials is used in the making up of lib.
of wool into socks, then the raw-material
cost per pound of socks is 4s. This is 56 83
p.c. of the finished value, which is, therefore
about 75., or per pair. That is the
knitting mill fets IOJd. per pair for the socks
that cost the consumer 2s. 9d. There is a
difference of Is. IOJd. Where does this go"'
The mills sell, directly or through agents,
to warehouses ; the warehouses, directly or
indirectly through agents, to the retailers. The
retailers’ price is 2s. 9d. These marketing
operations swallow up the Is. 10|d., in this
case 67 p.c. of the retail price. This is typi-
cal of the marketing of secondary products;
but the same applies to primary products in
many cases. It has been estimated by Prof,
Copland that in Australia 72 p.c. of the
retail price of apples represents marketing
costs, the percentage for potatoes being 67
and for milk 65. These costs are divided
between transport and commerce, the latter’s
share being twice that of the former Gener-
ally it may be stated that, of the retail price
of any goods, 33 p.c. represents the factory s
share, 25 p.c. the share of transport, and
mi' C ' tle . m s n S ’ . , .
There must be intermediaries between pro-
ducer and consumer. But the excessive mar-
keting costs clearly indicate that modern
marketing methods are faulty. But how shall
we improve them?
(1) A department of Government officials
administering a Law for the Elimination of
Unnecessary Middlemen would be fantastic.
(2) Equally objectionable would appear to be
State or municipal control of marketing.
Public bodies have never displayed the neces-
sary rapid adaptability and initiative, (3)
Co-operation of producers, to form one cen-
tral distributing agency, has been successful
on many occasions. Such a distributing
agency, of course, makes no attempt to con-
trol prices or output. The outstanding Aus-
tralian example is B.A.W.R.A. Others are
the voluntary pools for primary products,
(4) The example of England—and many
other countries—in regard to co-operative
buying has been little followed in Australia.
The wonderful success of the English “Co-op.”
—stores, wholesale society, factories, ship-
ping, all growing from the Rochdale Pioneers’
effort—entitles this marketing system to care-
ful consideration.
Besides the immediate advantages of great
reductions in costs throughout industry, the
co-operative system offers the only alterna-
tive to competition and ultimately Commu-
nism. Yours, J. W. B. Clakingbold.
. . .. , ~~
A Call to the G.-G.
Dear Bulletin, —From that shrewd obser-
ver and pungent critic Dean Inge I extract
this apropos le temps: —
A democracy often shows a sound instinct in
finding the strongest man to carry it through a
crisis. At such times the parrots and monkeys are
words a democracy . knows
rrn, f , n , n . T ..
trouble is that ordinarily, as Inge him-
self and a cloud of eminent publicists testify,
a i T thcr Power nor the
will to find the best man to lead it. Also it
takes an intolerably long time to convince the
mass that a crisis has arisen, and the chosen
of the democracy in power won’t abdicate
unless their crowns are prised off with a
chisel.
But consider the appositeness of Inge's
similes to the inhabitants of Canberra. The
parrots (that is, the noisy gabblers of the
Beasley, Lazzarini and Ward type) egg on
the monkeys (that is, the mischievous med-
dlers like Theodore and Lang) to economic
and financial catastrophes, the significance
and effect of which they themselves neither
realise nor care about. The lesser apes, like
Gibbons and Yates, with their own pet
quackeries to exploit, join in the chaotic
chatter. To round things off, the stupid,
slavish, rebellious and usually malevolent
menagerie of Scullins, Culleys, Dooleys,
Dunns, Maloneys, Moloneys, Riordans, Rileys
and others, with both ears cocked to catch
tile orders of the Trades Hall moguls, scream
Go on!” “Come back!” and “Party
Solidarity first!” or zoological noises to that
effect.
From the confusion of tongues one sensible
remark of Fenton, deserves per-
petuating : “This Parliament has neither the
brains nor the power to legislate on complex
matters of economies and the currency.”
Quite obvious; but none in that crowd of
near-knaves and party slaves had the courage
to say it.
Oh for a Cromwell in the shoes of Isaac
Isaacs ! —Yours, Bill O’Costs.
Inflation and the Banks
Dear Bulletin, —In his latest book-
let, “P.P.,” Mr. Brigden states (p. 59)
that “the Australian pound is now at
a discount of 30 per cent, in terms
of the British pound,” and again (p,
72) “the pound Australian is worth
about 14s. in gold.” In fact, the British
pound is at a premium of 30 per cent. —
£l3O Australian exchange for £lOO English.
Hence £lOO Australian exchange for about
£77 English, a discount of about 23 per cent.
The gold value of the Australian pound at
current exchange is approximately 15s. 4d.
and not 14s.
On page 28 he says: “Inflation is not
a special interest of the banks. Inflation
would not affect them particularly.” The
last sentence betrays a woeful lack of know r-
ledge of events in France and Germany. As
an example, the capital and reserves of the
“Big Four” French trading banks were 1088
millions of gold francs in December, 1913.
By December, 1926, when inflation had run
its course, the 1273 million paper francs
then constituting their capital and reserves
were worth only 261 millions in gold francs.
These banks thus lost three-fourths of their
capital and reserves.
Inflation was not only a matter of interest
to the banks; it was a matter of principal
as well! — Yours, Bussey Woodcock.
Prospectus of a Matrimonial Bureau
Dear Bulletin, —In these times of financial
stress and widespread unemployment, when
married men are given preference to loaf on
any work that offers, there is an opportunity
to form an association with great financial
possibilities. 1 propose to rope in all avail-
able widows with families, and enrol them
at a bureau. Single men could then take their
pick at so much per head —widow, say, £5
each, child £2 extra. As a N. S. Wales un-
employed man having a wife and eight chil-
dren can live very comfortably without doing
a hand’s turn, I can foresee a rush for the
early doors of my bureau. And the best of
it is if a man is lucky and increases his tally
to nine, his income immediately and auto-
matically increases. As a patriot I make
the idea a gift to Mr. Lang.—Yours,
Sand Plaiit.
Parliamentary Reorganisation
Dear Bulletin, —J. A. Carpenter’s pro-
gramme of 15 planks (B. 11/2/’3l) would
get strong support from electors of N. S.
Wales, but plank 2 (“abolition of all State
Parliaments and substituting State Coun-
cils of greatly reduced numbers”) would not
appeal to Westralia, Tasmania and S. Aus-
tralia, where the secession movement is
strong or gaining ground. I agree that a
reorganisation of Parliamentary systems is
called for, and if we are not to have a
change of system, I submit as urgent neces-
sities :
(1) Application of simple intelligence test to all
candidates.
(2) Compulsory recording and certification of
election speeches and promises.
(3) Raising of voting age.
(4) Disfranchisement of civil servants.
-Yours, J. S. V.


WIN FOWLES
hands you
a garage
for nothing!
I
I •
Rates Reduced
and Free Garage
at Carlyon’s Hotel,
Melbourne.
TO meet present conditions
Carlyon’s have reduced
rates as follows: Single rooms
from 4/6 per day, double from
7/6, bed and breakfast from
6/6 single or 11/6 double.
All meals optional (also at
reduced rates) in tearoom or
cafe. Inclusive board from
10/6 daily, or 65/- weekly,
Guests’ cars garaged without
charge, and train travellers
pay no taxi fares, as Carlyons’
is in Spencer Street, right
opposite the station. Please
write for revised tariff card.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000,
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - . - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Dnectors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE; Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia,' and at Canberra,
Federal Territory, Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Queensland Is Calling!
KEEN BUSINESS
MEN KNOW
that Queensland is most favorably
situated of all the States, and are
planning accordingly. They also
know from long experience that
the circulation claims of
The Daily Mail
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper
are dependable claims which have
always been supported by un-
deniable proof. They know, too,
that this great newspaper is cer-
tainly unsurpassed as a business
getter by any Queensland publi-
cation.
Rate cards, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.
N.S.W. Branch, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
' ~ • ’Phone; 81522.
ABORIGINALITIES
“0.W.W.”: Henare inquired from a sea-
man on the Napier wharf if any of the boats
would sell him one of their fibre buffers.
“What do you want a buffer for?” he was
asked. “Werra,” explained the native, “my
fishshop get te pig piece knocked off him py
to fruitshop, so I rike to take no chances
next earthquake time.”
JOE SYMPATHISED WITH HIM.
UNCLE: “So you went along to Sunday-school this afternoon, eh? Good egg! An’
what was the lesson?”
Joe: “Oh, about Samson and Delilah. An’ I tell you, Uncle, he learnt the same thing
as me—that it doesn’t pay to have a woman cut a fellow’s hair.”
“K. Cib”: A neighbor of mine got a shock
when a turkey gobbler, a recent addition to
his poultry-yard, went “broody.” The old
fellow planted himself firmly in a vacant
nest-box and refused to be dislodged. His
owner presented him with a setting of eggs.
All went well till the day the chicks were
due to appear. As each egg chipped
Pa broke it open and devoured the unlucky
youngster. Not one egg did he allow to
hatch, and when the last, chick had vanished
down his throat he left the nest and took up
his old position in the yard. He has showed
no signs of broodiness since.
“Homfrey Beale”: It is my
firm conviction that dogs can
smell snakes. While tramping
in Queensland I bunked down
in an outhouse of a deserted
farm on a pile of chaffbags.
During the bed-making my dog
barked and whined so much that
I thought the heat had affected
him. When the doss was com-
pleted and I went out to swing
the billy he started to howl dis-
mally, and when I came in
again he began to snap sav-
agely at all sides of the nap.
My grey matter worked, and,
securing a long pole, I removed
the bags one by one. and under
the last found snugly coiled the
most, beautiful tiger-snake I
ever saw.
* * *
“Benbow” : It’s a mistake to
tame wild things; someone else
maims or murders them. Years
ago on the Anakie (Q.) sap-
phire-field, Charlie Ivosky tamed
all the ’possums on Policeman
Creek. They would steal down
in the evening from the trees
round his camp and share his
food, tea and water,: allowing
themselves to b.e touched. Some
time after Ivosky left a miner
came along, .pitched his tent,
and prepared his tea. -Down
came the ’possijms—droves of
them—all round hini;- Tlie'new-
comer seized a stick and laid
about him frantically. Only
when many were killed ' and
crippled did the rest of the poor
creatures realise that man is
their implacable enemy. In
the same locality, on Retreat
Creek, birds of many kinds,
famishing for water, would de-
scend to me, hopping from
bough to bough until, shyly,
they would drink from a panni-
kin in my hand. I could not
let them perish, but I knew very
well what their fate would be when the next
wayfarer got within reach of them.
* * * *
“Pick”: We had paddocked old Gipsy,
the farm brood-mare, away from her mob so
that the expected arrival in her pedigreed
line of descent might not be endangered.
On the next morning Gipsy galloped wildly
across the paddock to the yards. She pranced
excitedly among the cows and milkers, made
several starts across the flat, and manifested
pathetic appeal in her backward glances.
We knocked off milking and followed her.
With a gladsome “come-along-quickly” air
she trotted to an abandoned mining shaft
in the valley, over the mullock heap of which
she stepped hesitatingly to peer down. We
put in half a day to rig a windlass and
rescue Gipsy’s baby, but the delighted low
whinnies and obvious gratitude of the
mammy as she led away her tottering off-
spring repaid us for the trouble.
* * * *
“G. O’Logic”: An avenue of scientific
research which is yielding results in Aus-
tralia is mining for fossils. In Queens-
land some time ago there was un-
earthed a giant jawbone with six teeth
attached. Later fragments of leg-bones from
a creature of the same genus were discovered,
and from these fragments it has been pos-
sible to deduce the existence of a pliosaur
DIPLOMACY.
STATION Boss: “I want you to ride this young colt for me, Jacky.”
JACKY ( dubiously ): “Better you ride ’im yourself, Boss. Blackfellow getting very
scarce now.”
(marine reptile of the lizard family) larger
than any creature of the kind previously
known to have existed. Heber Longman, of
the Queensland Museum, has christened the
creature Kronosaurus queenslandicus. It
belongs to the cretaceous (chalky) period,
and was carnivorous, preying on fish and
smaller reptiles. Apparently the South
Pacific in the neighborhood of the tropic
zone was the breeding * ground of the giants
of the Mesozoic age. Two or three more
such discoveries and savants will be desert-
ing the bad lands of Arizona to prospect the
Queensland field.
**- * • $
“Frigid”: One of the most curious churches
to be seen in Queensland is the Mohammedan
mosque at Mount Gravatt,
a settlement a few miles
from Brisbane. Many
' years ago a band of Mos-
lems from India settled in
this district, and although
nearly all those early
pioneers have passed on
their descendants still live
on “Mount Misery,” as the
bill is known to the rest
of .the communjty. Many
fine houses are built there,
commanding swee p i n g
views, and nestling in the
centre ■ lies the little
mosque, built in 1908. A
notice-board bids adher-
ents to “Do your duty to
your Creator. If you do
not .fulfil His command-
rrients you will be severely
dealt with. This is the
teaching of the Holy
Koran.”
“C. Coral”: “Yes,” said Jimmy Susu,
“things come very bad now along Torres
Strait. Everything poor; pearlshell lie no
got price; beclie-le-mer he nothing; trochus-
shell he proper no good ; Chinaman he don't
want make no more soup. And what about
pearl-button for coat? How them man going
to make fast his coat? One ting no good,
tobacco he come very short' now. Before,
he cheap; now you look which way that
price belong him. Me, I come very short
tobacco now; I got smoke pawpaw leaf.
That pan paw leaf he little bit good, but
he no like proper tobacco. Which way I
fix him? Oh, just take them leaf, dry him
along hot sun and roll him up tight, all same
tobacco-leaf before. You look, I show you!
But this ting he burn you tongue—burn like
’ell. Ah, tank you—l very glad you give me
stick proper tobacco; now I can smoke good,
make me come ’notlier kind. You tink
by-an’-bye them Guv’ment south he can talk
’long ’nother country and make price belong
them pearlshell and beche-le-mer come up
again? ’Spose we send some small present
long them Guv’ment, might he can. fix him
then—what you tink?”
# * * #
“Mulgo”: Queer tales are heard on the
sunset track about the Darling pea, that
beautiful wilding that is regarded as a pest
by stockowners on account of the maddening
effect it is said to have on horses that eat
it. The superstitious leave the flower alone,
and warn their youngsters not to touch it,
for there is a saying that anyone who picks
it won’t leave tlic river for seven years.
Instances are told by old residents of people
who had gone there with no intention of
staying; they had scoffed at the superstition
and picked the flower, and through one cir-
cumstance and another they were anchored
there for the allotted period. One was a
visitor from Sydney, whose case, a genuine
one, is often quoted to unbelievers. He
picked the flower at a bush picnic, and
pinned it in his coat. On the w T ay back to
town he was injured by a fall from his
horse, and went to hospital. There lie fell
in love* with a nvirse, whom he subsequently
married. Her father, a stock-agent, took
him into partnership. Business was booming,
and it was just seven years after the picnic
when he returned to Sydney.
❖%i: . : * *
“Ilomfrey Bfcale”: Landholders in the
Rankins Springs district (N.S.W.) have
discovered a new method of rabbit destruc-
tion. They block every entrance to a warren
with burnt bag or paper and put a slight
covering of earth over it to prevent it being
blown: away. Bunny stays inside and dies of
starvation. Without the burnt barrage he
would quickly scratch his way out. Whether
the strange black stuff puts the wind up
him or whether the odor awakens hereditary
memories of fire can only be guessed at.
* * * $
“Eh Saarlo”: The Kanaka brain is seen
at its best in the invention of labor-saving
devices. Was out fishing one night beyond
the reef -with a couple of boys, and the use
of a pile of stones in the bottom of the canoe
became apparent. A leaf from a palm frond
was tied round a stone and the tip of the
baited hook inserted in the free end of the
leaf. Stone and hook were then carefully
lowered over the side and the line rapidly
paid out. The weight of the stone quickly
carried the bait to the required depth (200 ft.
to 300 ft.), and a sharp jerk then detached tin-
stone and freed the hook. The idea may be
of use to those Sydney fisherman who spend
their Saturday afternoons hauling up small
fish and heavy sinkers.
AT PENNYWEIGHT PATCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I\ here are they, the' leavings of legions
That battled and struggled and swung
O er mulga and spinifex regions
When Cue and Coolgardie were young?
The gleaners, the rrikers,
The ever familiar batch
Of ancients who rattled the shakers
< )n the dusty and desolate acres
Of Pennyweight Patch ?
They were tough as the spades that uplifted
And into their dinguses bore
Earth riddled and winnowed and sifted
A thousand times over before;
They were battered and grizzled and bended
And gnarled, and their flannels and jeans
And the hats to which corks were appended
Were mostly obtrusively mended,
Just like the machines.
They toiled with no visions of riches.
There seldom was more than a crust
On those scorching and pock-pitted pitches,
In that red and pestiferous dust.
Did they think upon pleasanter places
They had known, in those back-aching
hours,
Of the greeneries they left and the graces
In lands where the rivulet races?
And birds are —and flowers?
Who knows? But I feature their figures
In verdant celestial glades,
Those ancients whose bellows-worked jiggers
Were plenislied with long-handled spades.
I see them, to Paradise wafted,
With crowns and etceteras to match,
The shades of the battlers who grafted
Where claims were unsheltered, unshafted,
At Pennyweight Patch..
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


đ
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
PRODUCERS W CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner EPzabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
fe.. Agency Co., Ltd. j
AUTUMN AT ITS BEST...
MARCH, April and May are three of the most delightful months of the
year for holiday-making in Victoria, For autumn, south of the
Murray, is autumn at its best.
The tourist can choose from :
MT. BUFFALO NATIONAL PARK: The most magnificent mountain
scenery in Australia, with a standard of comfort at The Chalet
unsurpassed by any other holiday-house anywhere.
THE VICTORIAN RIVIERA: Combined seaside-and-bush scenery at
Lome, Barwon Heads, Apollo Bay or Ocean Grove.
THE GIPPSLAND LAKES: Motor-boating and fishing in the lovely lake
country: or
THE MARYSVILLE DISTRICT: Invigorating walks through sweet-
scented fern gullies which experienced travellers have described as
"unexcelled by anything of the kind in the world.”
Travel experts at the GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU (Martin Place,
Sydney, or Queen’s Walk, Melbourne) will help the tourist to choose.
“Badjingan”: Western scientists are still
experimenting to produce life in tbe labora-
tory, with in-and-out results, but my Malay
friend Che Usop, the witch doctor, has been
producing pelesits, which are more or less a
form of life, for years. To obtain a pelesit
one goes to a graveyard and digs up the
first-born of a mother who was also a first-
born child. The infant must be less than
40 days dead. Having got the raw material,
TWO MINUTES’ SILENCE.
so to speak, one dandles it over an anthill
till it shrieks and its tongue lolls out. One
then swiftly bites off the tongue and hurries
home with the grisly thine. A cocoanut
must then be obtained from a five-branched
tree (which, incidentally, is so hard to find
that I have only seen one in my life). The
fruit is burnt at a crossroads at midnight
and the tongue dipped in the oil which
exudes. The tongue is then buried at'the
exact centre of the crossroads for three nights.
When dug up it will be found to have been
turned into a pclesit, though it looks sus-
piciously like a cricket. The uses of the
pclesit are many and various. It can be
instructed to enter the body of an enemy
and cause him to break out in boils or alter-
natively to rave like a; cat. Pelesils are
sometimes handed down, from father to son
and are fed from blood obtained by pricking
the thumb. Another way of getting posses-
sion of one is by sacrificing one’s shado'w,
but this lias the disadvantage of giving one
away. Unpopularity is the meed of the con-
fessed pelesit-usov to-day. In the good old
days he was liable to be drowned by being
pushed under with a forked pole, when the
pclesit would issue from his nose.
# * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Recently a naked man
was seen wandering about the bush not far
from Sydney, and several excited people
rushed off for the police.
He proved to be a sun-
bather, strolling among
the trees, where ho
thought he was far from
human eyes. The inci-
dent: recalls another. I
was one day riding along
in heavy rain, 20 miles
from everywhere, when I
came upon a bearded per-
son sitting on a log, stark
naked, and holding a
horse with no saddle on
it. “What’s the idea?”
I asked him. “Havin’ a
shower' bath.” he said,
grinning. “Where’s your
clothes?” I next in-
quired. He tapped the
log. “In there,” he re-
plied. “What did you
take them off for?” “Be-
cause there wasn’t room
for me to get in,” he
said. “It’s only a fool’s game gettin’ ’em wet
in a shower, so I peeled off. See?” When
the rain was over he dressed and saddled up,
then rode away as dry as a bone. I was
drenched and shivering.
* * * *
“Herpes”: Anyone in the habit of being
bitten by the deadly copperhead snake will
shortly be relieved of all apprehension, the
Commonwealth Serum Lab. having per-
fected a serum which renders the bitten one
immune from serious consequences. The new
juice will shortly be on the market, and, in
view of the success attending the produc-
tion of the antivenene for the poison
of the tiger-snake, should be a good
seller. Experts are now hard at work on
fixing a serum to counteract the poison of
the death-adder, and, that done, will move
on to the next on the list. The trouble is
that each variety of snake has his own
special poison, and this requires a special
antidote. As Australia owns a great many
varieties of poison snakes, the serum-makers
are likely to be busy for many a year to come.
* * * *
“Dr. Mivart”: A cat is a cat, no matter
liow big he may grow. The lion of the
African jungle and the tabby who snoozes on
your hearthrug on a winter’s evening are
brothers under their skins, sharing the same
severely practical mind, the faculty for
intensive attention to their own business,
and a lofty contempt for the so-called lords
of creation. My friend Prof. Malkin, recently
returned from Africa, informs me that lions
nowadays don’t worry to look round if a
motor-car passes, or to get out of its way
if they happen to be using a road. If
SORRY—NOT IN HIS LINE.
CUSTOMER: “What’s this in my soup?”
WAITER: “Don’t ask me, sir. I don’t know one insect from another.”
the passengers dismount, a male lion will
make himself scarce—he knows all about
guns—but a lioness with cubs wouldn't
budge if Malcolm Campbell’s “Blue Bird”
came charging along at full speed. You may
say that such cheek is not cat-like, but if
your cat weighed as much as you do you’d
be surprised at how cheeky he would be.
Prof. Malkin tells me that the African lions
have acquired a taste for poultry, and raid
farmers’ hen-roosts. All of which teaches us
to be thankful that most Australian eats are
small.
* * * *
“Kariah”: Reports of experiments in the
Old World with the artificial fertilisation of
oysters emphasise the difference between the
Australian and the European bivalve. Half-an
acre of oyster beds in Salamander Bay (Port
Stephens) will produce enough young oysters
to supply the whole of the English maturing
beds every year. In Australian practice the
minute oyster is lured to deposit himself in
bundles of mangrove sticks. After a few
hours the tiny oyster has fixed himself so
securely that he cannot move again. Cal-
culating that each stick catches 200 oysters
and a leaseholder puts out 10,000 sticks, liis
annual catch is in the vicinity of two mil-
lion oysters. The Australian oyster at one
spawning plays the role of the male and at
the next the female. Both eggs and sperms
are discharged into the water and fertilisa-
tion takes place miles away from either
parent. Artificial fertilisation has been
carried out here, but so far it has not been
possible to bring the product past tbe
embryonic stage. Even if it were possible
the thing would be of no practical value,
in view of the prolificacy of our oysters in
their natural state.
* * * *
“B. Sting”: To find bees’ nests a-bush
examine the mudbanks of an adjacent creek
or forest pool. Bees always have a favorite
spot at which they cluster to sip moisture.
When a water-laden bee leaves for home, if
it soars high on taking wing the nest is
distant. If it skims low over the ground the
home tree is not far away. Chivvy the bee till
you lose sight of him. Then halt, watch for
the next sailing past, and chase him. When
the high flier descends, or the low-flying bee
rises, or if either takes a sudden quick
swerve, the nest is nigh. Get the trees
between you and the sun, and the glint on
their wings as the workers congregate about
the hive entrance will reveal the spout in
which they store their wares.
* # * *
“Larrapinta”: An Adelaide business man
who joined our camp on the Coorong
(S.A.) gave us a laugb. H'e went to visit
some friends in another camp a little over a
mile away, and returning about 10 p.m. he
borrowed a hurricane-lamp to see the way.
From the top of the sandhill where our tents
were pitched-we could see that light going-
in all directions—circles, figures of eight,
zigzags and curves, as the man who carried
it wandered around hopelessly lost. Our
shouting only served to confuse him fur-
ther ; the light we hung in a tree seemed to
be invisible, to him. Finally one of the old
hands, saying “He’ll be fit for nothing if
he wanders around much longer—l’ll go and
bring him in,” pulled on his boots and set
off. Ten minutes later the light out on the
flat vanished; presently the two men came in.
But it was only when we showed the lost
sheep his tracks next day that we succeeded
in convincing him that he’d been bushed in a
40-acre paddock—because he carried a light.
**■ * *
“E.S.”: Some country schools offer prizes
to pupils who collect the most specimens of
native flowers and give them popular names.
Collecting is easy, but in naming them the
poor kids don’t get very far. All parts of
the country have beautiful wild flowers, but
the monikers of most of them are known
only to the abos. and the botanists. The
attitude of early settlers, who regarded all
wild plants as worthless, is mainly respon-
sible for the lack of homely names. Young
Australians of to-day see beauty in their
own land, and love their wild flowers, but
they get no help from the old brigade when
they want to know what the pretty things
are. “Only a wild flower” is the usual
answer. The abo. names are mostly simple
and euphonious, but nobody, apparently, has
bothered to collect them. Plant study in
public schools should be directed more to
native flora, which should also be the chief
feature in school gardens. The youngsters
learn all about the imported garden flowers
at home.
* * sir
“Bad Australian”: In wombat-infested
country a burrow is occasionally found con-
nected with a small circular shaft about
ISin. in diameter. The shaft, which is,
always sunk perpendicular to the burrow, is
usually situated at a considerable distance
from the entrance. I have seen several of
these shafts —one of them located on a
hillside was over Oft. deep; but I have
never been able to determine how they were
excavated or for what purpose they were
used. Some bushmen assert that they are the
work of the abos., while others maintain
that they are the wombats’ ventilation
system, but none of them are able to ex-
plain how the abo., working from the sur-
face, managed to operate in, and remove
the spoil from, such a narrow vertical
shaft, or how the wombat managed to sup-
port himself while working from below. If
Binghi wanted a wombat for dinner he
could have got one more easily by waiting
a spear-lengtli from the mouth of the burrow
about dusk. Likewise if the ’bat wanted an
airshaft, why didn’t he work on a comfort-
able grade until he reached the surface?
DINNER AT THE PUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you’re toiling in the country at a
bread-and-butter job,
Cutting scrub and blue-gum suckers at an
acre for a bob,
And your mate remarks at breakfast in a
surly kind of tone
That the bread’s as stale as blazes and the
meat seems mostly bone—
He may even add your cooking would dis-
grace a Queensland black;
Don’t you take the gibe too hardly, try to
keep your temper back.
Never strain the bonds of mateship by a
quarrel over, grub;
Take a ride into the township and have
dinner at the pub.
Though your mate and you are bushmen, and
you like the batching game,
Comes a time when cooking irks you, and all
tucker tastes the. same,
When the corned beef loses savor, and the
damper almost chokes;
Never disregard the symptoms—go and saddle
up the mokes.
Try this antidote; it’s certain —just a dinner
in the town,
With a pint or two of bitter, if you like, to
wash it down.
There’ll be work when, you are buried; drop
the axe and take a spell
Where the plump and pleasing waitress rings
the welcome' dinner-bell.
For it’s wonderful the diff’rence that a table-
cloth creates,
With the shining delf replacing poley cups
and battered plates,
And instead of jumbled dishes in the careless
bushland style,
Mary Ellen talses your orders and returns
them with a. smile.
So when strained relations tnreaten and your
partner’s rather gruff,
And his answers are sarcastic, there’s no
need to get the huff.
For it’s only indigestion; see the boss and
get a sub.:
You’ll ride laughing home together after
dinner at tbe pub.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


The Lang Government has brought down a bill to reduce interest
rates. What is the legal position of bondholders?
The effect of the Theodore proposals will depend largely upon
whether the banks can prevent inflation of prices. Can they?
What are the points to watch in valuing shares?
When will the drift stop?
Why does gold flow to the U.S.A. and France?
What cos. are standing up best to the strain?
These and many other problems of vital interest are discussed in
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
APRIL
NUMBER
NOW
ON SALE
Single copy, 2/-;
per annum, 22/6.
From newsagents
or “Bulletin”
offices Sydney,
Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide,
Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
SHEIK’S LAMENT.
“The unpuncturable tyre has arrived. The day
of the trouble-free and fool-proof motor-car is draw-
ing steadily nearer.” — Cable.
For years I have kept a car-license alive
And caused quite a lot of hard talk
By giving the flappers who kissed me a drive,
And the ones who refused me a walk.
But now they have threatened to end all
this fuss;
To stop conkings-out miles from town —
Oh, what SHALL I do with a trouble-proof
’bus,
And an engine that never breaks down?
Apprehensive Algy.
¥ *
“The R.A.S. has given N.S.W. its Easter Show.”
It is to Mr. Lang, however, that we are
indebted for our Easter sliowing-up.
* #
“There are women who can read their neighbors’
characters by studying their clothes-lines.”
It all comes out in the wash, as the saying
is.
* *
HOW WARS ARE WON.
“John Roberts was charged with having taken
part in an unlawful procession. The prosecuting
sergeant said he was at the end of it. Fined Is.”
The street with tramping rebels shook,
For revolution ivilling,
A nd Lor-an’-order promptly took
The last man and his shilling!
¥ *
“It is no use Nationalists blanking their eyes to
this.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Damning them would perhaps be more
gentlemanly.
* #
“Marriage remains an essential to woman’s happi-
ness,” —Sydney cleric.
Of course. If she doesn’t marry how’s she
to get her divorce?
* *
HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.
“With perspiration streaming from his face, Mr.
Beasley attacked the A.F.A. League in the Domain.
‘We will meet force with force through the Aus-
tralian Labor Army, 5 he said.” — “Sun.”
War.
Mr. Garden : “I'm enlisting for Home
Sairvice only, mind ye that. I’m a life-
long pacifist, apairt fra’ me corns. Training-
camp, transport work or the like o’ that, wi’
SHE HAD A PRIVATE TUTOR.
TATURU: “It’s silly of your boy friend to make such a fuss, especially since you’d
said you were learning to love him.”
TORORO : “’M — yes, but you see he interrupted one of my lessons.”
major’s pay as a stairt, wud suit. I'd also
do ma bit addressing recruiting meetings
at union overtime rates.”
Mr. Beasley : “I want a certificate that
I'm medically unfit. I’m a sufferer from
incurable perspiration of the face. How
about wangling me the usual politician’s
job? Something cushy. Say, 0.0. Domain
meetings, carrying the rank and pay of
lieut.-colonel.”
Public Notice.
Messrs. Lang and Dawes, land and estate
agents, Auburn, beg to state that any of
their brave employees who enlist in the
A.L.A. will be given full pay for the dura-
tion in recognition of their patriotism. On
the cessation of hostilities they will be re-
stored to their former positions at double
pay aud made directors. Should they fall
beneath the iron heel of the capitalistic
octopi their dependants will be supported in
luxury. Our motto: “No member of the
A.L.A. shall ever again know sorrow or
poverty.”
Darlings in the Dock.
“Truth” : Florrie Bates, a leading mili-
tant, and Irene Sludge appeared at the Scen-
tral on Monday on a charge of unmaidenly
conduct. It appears that war-like Florrie
gave Irene’s boy-friend, who bottlo-ohs for
a crust, one of her celebrated collection of
white feathers, and Irene, who is a strict
conchy so far as the A.L.A. is concerned,
objected and swung young Flo one. Flo’s
old man (Major-General Bates, Croix dc
Moscow ) rushed out of the corner pub, but
was too late to stop the carnage. The S.M.
said five bob each.
Marching Song.
(“IF age-plugs, Awake!” )
Ye wage-plugs, awake! for the day is at hand
When employers with, cash will be swept
from the land;
When they and their jobs will be shoved in
the sea,
And Australia be wageless and workless and
free.
Chorus.
Then join up, my lads, in the old A.L.A.
And, hasten to fight in the glorious fray!
You’ll get hurt, I expect. If you do or you
don’t.
Well, one thing’s quite certain, your generals
won’t.
Yc wage-plugs, arise at the clarion call
Which has rung through the land from, the
Sydney Trades Hall!
Your wages are needed to hasten The Day,
So bring them along without further delay.
(Chorus as before.)
The Armistice.
“Labor Daily” : The demobilisation of
the so-called A.L.A. was completed to-day,
thus adding thousands to the unemployed.
To the fire-eating swashbucklers who gave
up their livelihoods to go joy-soldiering we
have only this to say—-Serve you right! The
people’s movement is and always has been
pacifist to the core. There is no place in
it for such as those who rushed blatantly to
the colors, and are now repenting of their
folly in sackcloth and the sack. Rightly
has the great Auburn land-agency firm of
Lang and Dawes refused to restore the jobs
of men who joined up in a morbid desire for
notoriety. In any case idealistic young
Labor ladies of the type of Miss Florrie
Bates (one of the Australian Pacifist
Army’s recent converts) are filling the aban-
doned positions far more efficiently.
10-2-4.
* #
“Now that pensions are being so much discussed
I would like to strike a new note.” — “Herald” cor-
respondent.
We’re agreeable, so long as it isn’t a fidu-
ciary one.
PERILS OF THE DEEP.
CLURMAN (chipping bell-hop): “So you go fishing on
Sunday, do you? You oughtn’t to be allowed to
do it. Think of the risk you run of catching a
shark!”
“The racecourse as an excuse for bankruptcy seems
to be in the discard.”— N.B.\V. Judge in bankruptcy.
Still, many men continue to go out there.
* ¥
STANDING LINE.
“Within a few months three men have shot at
their wives as a result of drink.” — Rev. Hammond.
Let’s keep the phrase as a standing line,
For its uses will never fail:
Father was shot, next mother was shot,
Then father teas shot in gaol.
* #
ASSOCIATION OF IDEAS.
“The yacht Toddy came into port yesterday.”
— “Sun.”
The “Sun” was, no doubt, led into giving
the Teddy this name because it was not
only a rum little boat, but a stout one.
Again it might have been impressed by the
fact that the Teddy had reached port on a
day that sparkled like champagne.
* *
GRIEF-PROOF.
He was happy, supremely happy, and he
didn’t give a hang if Lang had refused to
meet the overseas debt, if Theodore did
intend to circulate 18 million worthless
notes, if his banker had told him to reduce
his overdraft, and if the butcher and baker
were threatening to writ him.
He was much too happy to worry over
such trifles, he told himself, as lie read and
re-read that part of his wife’s letter which
said she wouldn’t be home for another month.
Sap.
REASSURANCE.
“Mr. Donald Grant, seconding a Domain motion
advocating militancy, said that he would be behind
the Labor Army.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Don’t worry, comrades, if when shot
Begins to fall around,
You Rear I’m not upon the spot.
I snail be later found
Stressing the needlcssncss of fear
From a position in the rear.
I may not breast the barricades.
Tt isn’t quite my line
To flirt with death in daylight raids
Where lethal bullets whine.
But, ah! remember as you fall
That I shall be behind you all.
Fools always hurry to the front
And end in getting hit;
But I shall bear the battle’s brunt
By staying out of it.
So keep your hearts up in the fray:
I shall be miles and miles away.
BLOGGS
INFLATION.
“Hullo, Bill, how’s the bloomin’ game?”
The “Stifler’s” leader-writer smote the
back of his friend who did the yelling tor
the detested contemp. . (4TT
“Mine’s a pot, Kitty,” said the Up-
roar’s” Boanerges. “And how s things.
Rotten ?” . , „
“If,” the “Stifler’s” fire-eater said your
disingenuous interrogation designates by im-
plication an appetency to , discuss with me
the parlous conditions obtaining in the cur-
rent political situation, bog in, old cock.
“Thanks,” said the “Uproar’s” champion
“Here’s to my girl’s boy,” and he winked
at the barmaid. “I trust that in our mutual
argumentation we may debate the subject
without giving in an adhesion
to any specific conclusion.
Another pot, please, Kitty.
What’s your, Jim?”
“Same again, Bill, old sport.
I am wedded to the opinion
that we shall express nothing
that will debase by one iota
the dignified traditions of that
Fourth Estate which we must
never permit to fall a victim
to the arts of any political
charlatan. Here’s the best!”
“Too-ral-00. For the nonce,
however, I think that the
swing of the pendulum has
spoken with no uncertain
voice telling in trumpet tones
that the inalienable rights of
the humbler members of the
community, who have been the
victims of malicious misrepre-
sentation, are now to be safe-
guarded. Salus populi sup-
remo' est lex, if you tumble
to what I’m getting at.”
“I’m a wake-up. Quis
custodiet ipsos custodes? At
the same time, standing as we
do at the parting of the ways,
the cynosure of all eyes, I
take it that there are not
wanting signs that those who
have the real interest of the
Empire at heart will not
tamely submit to the thin
end of the wedge cleaving the
palladium of British justice.
8 pectemur agendo. Same
again, Kitty, old thing.”
“Me, too, Kit. But we
must not blind ourselves to
the obvious fact that the red
herring is being drawn across the trail of
democracy by the forthright fists of financial
pariahs, and must in the last analysis—if
figures prove anything—make confusion
worse confounded and chaos come again.
Ne sutor ultra crepidam.”
“You adumbrate, perhaps, a cessation of
hostilities, as we must never swap horses
while crossing a stream. It is no mean
achievement to stand with bated breath and
in clamant and denunciatory prolation mar-
shal the facts which are on all fours with
our far-flung Empire on which the sun never
declines. Probatum est. And so, without
sesquipedalian circumlocution, I must voice
the suggestion that the time is ripe—I say
it without fear of contradiction—for a con-
sensus of opinion to Wha’s that? Six
o’clock? Delenda est Carthago. Orrite,
Kitty. So long, old top. Mus’ buzz off
now.”
“Cheerio, ol’ dog’s-body. See you some
more. Goo’ night.”
PHIZGIG.
EXORBITANT.
MAISIE: “Hear the ridiculous claim the new
star is making?”
DAISY: “No; what’s that?”
MAISIE: “She wants fifty per cent, of what
she says she’s getting.”


g^;w^wfiThv.v.v»Yrf
;
I
I
1:
§
m
M
' // //.
m
""A
m.
wA
M
MB,
i MJw wm MiX *m
m
r-
Columbia
Columbia
fr gives longer Wear
Faithful Reproduction
oApril Records of Exceptional iMerit
DOX 120-134
(6/- each)
Rigoletto (Verdi) Complete Opera in
Thirty Parts
Soloists with Chorus and Orchestra of
La Scala Theatre, Milan
Fifteen Records in Art Album with Special Booklet of
Italian and English Words, complete £4 10s.
LOX 73-74
(8/6 each)
Siegfried Idyll (Wagner) In 4 Parts
Bruno Walter and Symphony Orchestra
DOX 136
(6/-) '
Fra Diavolo (Auber)
Parts
Overture in Two
Milan Symphony Orchestra
DOX 137
(6/-)
{Tancredi Overture (Rossini an. Duthoit)
In Two Parts
8.8. C. Wireless Military Band
DO 282
(4/->
[Andante and Rondo Capriccioso
\ (Mendelssohn ) in Two Parts
Irene Scharrer, Piano
DO 284,
(4/-)
Barn Dance (Introducing Pas de Quatre ;
Frivolity)
Polka (Introducing See Me Dance the Polka;
Little Brown Jug)
Debroy Somers Band
DOX 142
(6/-)
Tales of Hoffman—Barcarolle
( Offenbach)
II Trovatore—Miserere (Verdi)
Jack Mackintosh and Jesse Stamp,
Cornet and Trombone Duettists
DO 291
(4/-)
Entry of the Gladiators (Fudk)
Caliph of Baghdad (Boieldku)
Destifano Brothers, Accordeon Duets
DO 292
(4/-)
Swanee River Medley (an. L. Filhs)
In Two Parts
Len Fillis, Banjo Solos
DO 231
(4/-)
The Blue Danube—Vocal Waltz
In Two Parts
English Words: Craig ; Music : Johann Strauss
The 8.8. C. Wireless Chorus & Orchestra
09013
(7/-)
{The Sweetest Flower That Blows
(Petersen & Hawley)
My Treasure (Barr & Trtvalsa)
Dame Clara Butt, Contralto
DOX 141
(6/-)
(II BaciO (Farnie and Arditi)
Tales of Hoffman—The Doll Song
(Agate and Offenbach)
Isobel Baillie, Soprano
DO 29D
(4/-)
Two Little Girls in Blue (Graham)
After The Ball {Harris)
The Maestros, Vocal Quintet
DO 283
(4/-)
Clementine (Traditional)
Vilikins and His Dinah (Traditional)
Harold Williams & 8.8. C. Male Chorus
DO 287
(4/-)
Old Time Comedians,
Vocal Memories. In 2 Parts
Frank Wood, Humorous
DO 288
(4/-)
(Dizzy (Bums and Allen) in Two Parts
1 Comedy Duologue by Burns & Allen
Q/tsk your dealer for the Complete oApril List
and a copy of the New Columbia Catalogue
Columbia
THE LONG LIFE RECORD /cSmR
IP
VICTORIA :
Columbia Graphophone (Aust.) Ltd. (Whole-
»ale Dept.), 300 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, C.l.
QUEENSLAND :
King 8C King Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A._ E. Harrold, 123-123 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA :
Phonographs Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
South Australian Phonograph Co. Ltd.,
Claridge House, Gawler Place Adelaide.
TASMANIA :
Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., Launces-
ton, Hobart and Burnie.
NEW SOUTH WALES :
Wholesale Department, Columbia Graphophone
(Aust.) Ltd., Parramatta Road, Homebush.
NEW ZEALAND :
A. H. Nathan Ltd., 40-42 Custom Street,
East Auckland.
Bannatyne 8i Hunter Ltd., Allen & Wake-
field Streets, Wellington.
Columbia Distributors Ltd., 56-58 Lichfield
Street, Christchurch.


NEXT WEEK’S WAGES
Open a‘cheque account ”
for you at the P.P.B.
The P.P.B. pays interest on
current accounts—get into
cheque circles with a bank
deposit. Cheques are safe-
guards for payment and in-
duce thrift—they eliminate
loss.
Have a Bank Account—Keep it
Growing.
Get interest on your current
account at
A
K E C £ J V J J\J
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and
at London.
PLUM
RAZOR
12/6
Post paid.
Strongly made grained-leather
hinged case provided free with
every razor.
'
m
“PLUM” RAZORS are supplied in two widths —fin. and Jin.
Each Razor set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
THh-j BUM
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD
. • -i
Fits any blade razor f, f, i inch size.
This guard permits the correct diagonal
shaving stroke, ensuring a thorough and com-
fortable shave,
2/9 Post Free.
CRAIG
AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE BAND'S
PAGE
TEH
STUFF TO GIVE 'PM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED
MEAL
LOOK TO YOUR SEED.
“ Jamwood”: “In 1928-29,” said P. D.
Ferguson, the Westralian Minister of Agri-
culture recently, “2759 farmers averaged
under 3 bushels per acre, and 1673 averaged
over 18 bushels per acre. Iu 1929-30, 3971
farmers averaged under 3 bushels per acre
and 1688 averaged over 18 bushels per acre.”
These figures have naturally led to con-
siderable discussion in the West. In both
seasons some parts of the wheat belt got
sufficient rain when it was needed and others
didn’t; and the three-bushel men included
good farmers, as well as the slipshod and
inexperienced types. The Minister blames
nobody, but very properly recommends set-
tlers to look to their seed.
“We can’t afford nowadays to use any
old seed,” Mr. Ferguson says, in effect. “We
have proved on our State farms that graded
pedigreed seed gives considerably increased
returns over other seed. Another point:
We must sow the right variety at the right
time. It is absurd to sow Noongaar in
April or Yandilla King in July; it is pitiful
to see an almost total failure to mature a
crop on carefully-prepared, well-worked
fallow because an otherwise admirable
variety was sown at an unsuitable period.
During my travels through the wheat belt
last cropping season I noticed instances of
this. Again, precautions should be taken
against fungus diseases.”
The head of this Westralian department
says that he would like, to see every farmer
have his seed wheat plot, the seed being
obtained year by year from the nearest State
experimental farm. The crop from this seed
plot would constitute his bulk seed for the
following season; if he got annually, say,
five bags of pedigreed seed, this should
be sufficient to sow 20 acres, which in turn
should yield enough to sow 400 to 500 acres
the following year. By adopting this plan
the farmer would be saved the necessity
of worrying about small plots of seed; he
could safely leave that to the Department
of Agriculture, and would be assured each
year of having a supply of suitable seed. >
It is claimed that the Westralian State
farms supply graded seed wheat and oats,
grown from selected strains, at the cheapest
rates in the world. The charges are, for
wheat, 12s. per bag where ten bags or more
are ordered, and 14s. per bag in smaller
lots; and, for oats, Bs. and 10s. per bag
respectively. Freight is paid to siding. All
varieties are available in large quantities
except Sutton and Bencubbin wheat; of these
varieties each settler is limited to one bag
at £l, freight paid.
HOW MUCH SUPER.?
“ J.W.W.”: “Tuart’s” observations (B.
18/3/’3l) are timely; but it has been proved
in our drier Vic. areas that the best result
cannot be obtained from super, unless therq
is sufficient rain to dissolve it. In the sea-
son just past this has been demonstrated
beyond cavil in localities such as Boga,
Kunat., Goschen and adjacent lands in the
Mallee. A lot has been heard of crops
grown without manure. I have found in
most eases that the super.-residue from the
previous season or seasons has obviously
been a factor in these yields, thus bearing
out Mr. Mullett’s remarks about residues
of super, benefiting future crops.
There is, however, a decided consensus
of opinion among growers that much residue,
in the shape of undissolved super., in the
soil is not beneficial to the crop it is sown
with, however beneficial it may prove to
later ones. This is why the question of
how much super, to use this year is per-
plexing to farmers. Every district has its
own peculiarities, and these, taken in con-
junction with past performances and past
treatment of each farm, constitute the safest
guide for the future. Where a good residuum
of super, is present already, the minimum
quantity is safe for next crop.
“Bags” : It would appear from “ J.W.W.’s”
comment (B. 11/3/’3l) that the effect of
super, on the wheat crop is not so thoroughly
understood as it might be. Fortunately the
facts of the case are available from the
detailed crop census investigations that have
been proceeding in Via over the past four
years. These show that the only influence
of super, in increasing yields is the increase
it gives in numbers of heads per plant; that
is, a denser crop. Let the September rains
fail, and any increase to be expected from
the super, application may be heavily dis-
counted. Under average conditions of soil
and season with the newer wheat varieties
40 to 45 per cent, of the spring stools
produce heads. Thus the most economi-
cal dressing for any given district is the
quantity which produces a spring growth of
which the average September rains can carry
40 to 45 per cent, through to har-
vest. The greater the amount and reliability
of the September rains the higher goes the
profitable super, application.
Typical average figures for a decent
Northern Vic. crop are as follows: —
Super., 901 b.
No Super. per acre.
Stools per plant (Sept.) . . 2.5 3.9
Stools per acre . . . . 1,500,000 2,340,000
Heads per plant . . . . 1.2 1.7
Heads per acre . . . . 630,000 900,000
Grains per head .... 20 20
Yield per acre, bushels . . 16 23
Super,, in brief, provides the foundation on
which a bigger crop is built if the September
rains arrive. Can we provide this founda-
tion in any other way? In Victoria, fortu-
nately, we can. If the super, is to be cut
out or greatly reduced the crop must be
sown early if average yields are going to be
even thought about. Stooling, or foundation-
laying, stops by the first week in August
in the Vic. wheat belt (Wimmera black-
soils excepted). The longer the crop is above
ground and growing before this date, the
better will the stooling be. Super, accelerates
the stooling process. So if it is going
to be cut longer time must be allowed for
stooling to give us a chance for normal crops.
My wheat is going to be in, and up, and
growing at the earliest possible moment.
WIIEAT-FED PIGS AT ROSEWORTHY.
“Yeoman”: Deducting 3d. a bushel for
sacks and 14-d. for cartage, wheat to-day is
worth only Is. 3d. a bushel on the farm. It
becomes more and more necessary to feed
it to pigs. It takes, say, 41b. of* wheat to
make lib. of gain in liveweight. Prime
porkers, baconers or choppers are worth sd.
per pound liveweight. That is the equiva-
lent of approximately l|d. per pound, or
6s. per bushel, of wheat consumed, which
leaves a margin to pay for the extra cost
of other cereals and mineral mixtures.
Finely-ground limestone or sea shells, 3
parts, and salt, 1 part, is a cheap and ser-
viceable mixture to use as a mineral supple-
ment to the wheat. In some instances, 2
parts of sterilised bone flour would probably
make an improvement. From 21b. to 31b.
of this mixture should be added to each 1001 b.
of wheat and mixed cereals.
The mineral mixture used in a pig-feeding
test at Roseworthy College (S.A.) consisted
of charcoal, 20 per cent.; salt, 20 per cent.;
sulphate of iron, 5 per cent.; Epsom salts, 5
per cent.; sulphur, 5 per cent.; bicarb, of
soda, 5 per cent.; potassium iodide, i per
cent.; bone meal or super., 40 per cent. This
mixture was added at the rate of 31b.. per
lOOlb. of grain ration. Several pens of pigs
participated in the test. No. 1 was not fed
the mineral supplement • No. 5 was fed
barley only. These two pens showed a
marked decline. The average daily increase
in liveweight of pens 2, 3 and 4, which were
fed a mixed-cereal ration at the rate of 4£lb.
to every 1001 b. liveweight of pigs, with green
feed and mineral supplement added, was
1.671 b. per pig. Pen No. 1, which had the same
mixed-cereal and green-feed ration, gained
1.571 b. per day. Pen 7 had free choice of the
same grains supplied in self-feeders, with
free access, too, to the mineral supplements,
and made a gain of 2.161 b. per pig per day.
This test emphasised two points: one,
that the pens receiving a mineral mixture
showed a more rapid increase in weight than
that deprived of minerals; the other that
the free-choice pen with mineral supplement
consumed more feed and showed a larger
increase than those pens fed with a fixed
daily ration of the same character.
The four pigs in No. 7 pen (free choice)
made a total gain of 3621 b. in 42 days, dur-
ing which they consumed 174 bushels of
wheat (Is. 3d. per bushel), 221 b. of barley
(Is. 9d. per bushel), 3 bushels of peas (ss.
per bushel), 451 b. meat-meal (2d. per
pound), 51b. minerals, and 701 b. (dry weight)
green feed (£1 10s. per ton) —altogether
£2 16s. 5d., or 1.87 d. per pound of weight
gained. If the gain was worth only 4d. per
pound, then the profit would be the equiva-
lent of an additional 3s. 9d. per bushel of
wheat consumed, making the return ss. per
bushel.
In the pens fed with fixed rations (4 parts
of wheat. 8 parts of barley, 2 of peas and
one of meat-meal) with a supplement of
mineral mixture, the gain in weight averaged
1.641 b. per day, while the food consumed
was 5.551 b. per pig per day—an average of
3.511 b. of grain to lib. of liveweight increase.
At current prices the cost would be 1.61 d.
per pound increase in liveweight.
The foregoing figures demonstrate the prac-
ticability of selling cheap wheat as pork
at over 4s. per bushel. Skim milk and green
feed are valuable supplements, but if they are
not available meat-meal should be. used at
the rate of 41b. to 71b. to the 1001 b. of cereals.
Minerals, particularly lime and salt, are
essential. Peas, in the ratio of at least 1
to 10 of wheat, will pay to use. Failing
peas, barley or other grain will improve
a wheaten diet. All grain should be ground.
If a grinder is not available, boiling, steam-
ing or soaking is desirable.
Allow about 51b. of grain daily to every
1001 b. of liveweight of pigs being fed. If
feeding a pen of eight slips averaging 251 b.
each the allowance for the pen would be
101 b., which would be gradually increased
until 601 b. a day was being fed to the pen
when the average liveweight was 1501 b. each.
“WILLEYING” WOOL.
Apropos the charge of 1 id. per lb. plus
exchange for freighting wool to Europe, “in-
side” growers are coming to the conclusion
that it is a lot of money to pay for carrying
sand and burrs, and are wondering how' the
burden can be lifted. It did not seem to
matter so much when wool was fetching a
good price; but at present rates it is too
much when 41b. wool has to carry the freight
and charges on up to 61b. Consideration has
been given in Adelaide to a “willeying”
machine which Goldsbrough-Morts have
been showing, and pretty fair tests have been
made on the West Darling, where the sand
nuisance is particularly great. The cost is
thought by many to be a bit on the stiff
side, running up to ljd. per lb. for sorting
and willeying. But even at that there looks
to be a profit in the business, so far as
many clips are concerned. Ivinchega, on
the Lower Darling, put a large part of last
season’s clip through a machine installed on
the station, with quite satisfactory results,
it is said.
A. TEST FOR HAIRY WOOLS.
“Atriplex”: Of considerable interest to
sheepmen is a' new and simple test for hairi-
ness of wool fibre, devised by Prof. Elpliick,
of the Massey Agricultural College (M.L.).
It is accurate, and can be carried out with
speed. If adopted, as it should be, it should
result in a greatly-reduced 1 proportion of
hairy wools, which buyers abhor.
All grease having been removed by wash-
ing in benzine, the staple is placed in a shal-
low tray with a black bottom-, containing
benzol. A clear sheet of glass is deposited
on top of it. The pure wool is practically
invisible in benzol, but any fibres haying the
slightest tendency to hairiness will be seen
distinctly, exhibiting a chalky appearance.
The objection buyers have to hairy fibres
is that they will not take dye and appear as
flaws in the finished material. This pro-
perty is exhibited by fibres which, to the
naked eye, are indistinguishable from pure
wool. These the test will reveal; therefore
its importance will be realised.
MANURIAL TRIALS.
“6Q.J.”: That controversy about potash
suggests that a little information as to test-
ing the relative values of fertilisers may be
acceptable. In the case of wheat and other
cereal crops the trials will relate- to what
quantity of super, will be most economically
productive, and it may be most convenient
to work test plots of an acre or more. In the
case of more intensive crops an acre is
usually selected. The ground should be as
even as possible, showing no variation in
soil, slope or drainage. It is divided into as
many strips as it is decided to have varie-
ties, or different weights of fertilisers. Two
hundredweight of super, is usually taken as
the basis of the trial, although it may be
advisable in some instances to have check
plots to which no fertiliser is applied. To
the super, is added, according to the nature
of the trial, sulphate of ammonia, sulphate of
potash or nitrate of soda.
One strip of land is allowed for each fer-
tiliser, with check plots in between. Then
the different fertilisers are mixed together
and thus applied.
As a general rule, soluble fertilisers like
potash and ammonia should not be applied
when planting, as their value is lost in drain-
age before they have any crop to operate on,
especially if the crop is irrigated. It is well
to check the results obtained from applying
(1) all the super, at cropping time; (2)
half at seeding and half as a top-dressing
with the soluble manures when the crop is
nearing the flowering stage. If possible, the
different strips should be permanently
marked, so as to observe any effect on subse-
quent crops resulting from the different
manurings. Rainfall and general climatic
conditions should all be noted; as a trial
for one season only is of little value, trials
should bi‘ repeated each year until some defi-
nite result manifests itself.
In addition to noting the actual increase
in crop yields, the farmer should note the
economic increase—that is, the increase
which will pay for the extra expense involved
by the addition of whatever manure has been
used, .lust one more point. Do not start
out with a preconceived idea that one parti-
cular manure or mixture is likely to prove
better than the rest. If you do this particu-
lar plot might get a little more water run
on, or perhaps a little heavier dressing than
was intended, or a little more seed to the
acre.
ST. JOHN’S WORT.
The annual report of the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research contains
some interesting details of the campaign
against St. John’s wort. This pest covers
400,000 acres, particularly in Victoria and
N. S. Wales. It is spreading up hills and
along valley slopes, and develops a good
stand even at the expense of bracken. It
is a prolific seeder, and rabbits are reckoned
the chief agency in seed-distribution, the
sticky capsules adhering to their coats.
The council’s investigators in Europe have
discovered certain species of insects (Cliry-
somela) which are destructive to the weed.
After exhaustive tests to ascertain beyond
dispute that these insects wall not feed
on any useful plants, supplies of them have
been introduced into Australia and distri-
buted in infested areas. An insect which is
reckoned to be death on ragwort has also
been introduced. Other insects have been
found to be effective against the seed pods
of Noogoora burr, which already covers thou-
sands of acres in Queensland, and which is
spreading at an alarming rate.
“There seems every reason to believe,” the
council report says, “that when adequate
supplies of all these insects are bred, the
clearing of large areas of weed-infested
localities in Australia will be rendered pos-
sible at a nominal cost. The total increase
in value of the land then being made repro-
ductive will amount to millions of pounds.”
SALTED AND SUN-DRIED MUTTON.
“Tres Puntas”: One of the problems of
the Australian sheepman who goes in for
merinos, because he is convinced that fine-
wool production pays best in the long run,
is how to dispose of culled sheep. Merino
mutton is not comparable with the over-
seas or crossbred strains as a marketable
proposition.
In South America for many years there
has been a process of mutton treatment in
vogue which is known as Chalona. It is
a salting and sun-drying process, and the
small Australian sheep-farmer should find it
payable, as many small South American
•breeders have done. Even for home use it
is worth trying, since little trouble is in-
volved. The sheep to be killed are kept for
24 hours without food or water, and after
butchering are stripped of all internal fat,
the killing being done at night. In the morn-
ing the carcase is split in half and laid out
for salting. A pound of saltpetre to 1001 b.
of salt is the rule; the mixture is in-
serted in slits under the shoulders and in
the hams and along the back. The carcase
is then ready for dry-salting by the usual
rubbing process, and when that is done
comes the pressing stage. Carcases are
stacked in layers on boards covered with
straw and a bit of hessian or other
material to keep the flies off. The top of
the pile is then heavily weighted, and the
more air and sun the stack gets the better.
After a couple of weeks the salt has worked
right through, and the drying stage is due.
The carcases are laid out or hung up in
the sun after sunrise and taken under cover
before sunset. Wetting or damping will
ruin the meat, which is ready to consume or
sell when it is literally as dry as a chip.
Chalona, properly prepared, will keep for
years, and when cooked, after soaking in
water, it is excellent eating. In addition
to the iChalona itself, the by-products, kid-
neys, tongues, etc., offer additional avenues
for profit.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What inexpensive poison will kill hriga-
low suckers ? I have tried arsenic pent-
oxide at 4 lb to the gallon without success.
—2284.
Experiments made by the Q’land Agricul-
tural Department show that a 20 p.c. solu-
tion of arsenic pentoxide (21b. to lgal. of
water) is effective in the destruction of briga-
low and belar; but it is essential that
the poison should be applied to the cut sur-
face immediately after the axe-cut has been
made. Also take care that the poison has been
absorbed. It is of advantage to have two
men working in conjunction, one man fol-
lowing closely after the axeman for the pur-
pose of applying the poison.
(1) Which is the better weed-killer,
potassium chlorate or sodium■ chlorate? (2)
Ho.w is it most effectively applied? —2262.
(Continued on page 26.)


Bank of Now Zealand
Established 1861.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner George and Wynyard Streets.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 Collins Street.
Paid-up Capital £6,858,113
Reserve Fund and Undivided
Profits ......... 4,173,156
£11,031,269
The Bank has Agents and Correspondents throughout
the World. Every description of Banking Business
conducted.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital ~ .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
VISITORS WELCOMED TO
LONDON’S FOUR MOST
UP-TO-DATE RESIDENTIAL
HOTELS.
Close to Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens;
Within 3 minutes of Tube; Open to Non-
Residents and Daily Terms as required; No noise
though Central; Garage; Night Porters; All bed-
rooms have hot and cold water, gas fires;
Exchange Telephones; Central Heating.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT,
1-9 INVERNESS TERRACE. HYDE PARK, W. 2.
Accommodation 120 guests. Special Terms for
Winter Residence.
Winter Garden; Palm Court; Louis Seize
Drawing-room and Lounge; Tudor Smoke and
Billiard Rooms; Special Dinner Dances.
Wedding Receptions and At-homes a Specialty.
Single Rooms from 4 Guineas. Double from
Guineas. Bed and Breakfast from 9s. 6d.
Telephone, Park 9901.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL.
66-69 LANCASTER GATE, HYDE PARK, W. 2.
Established over 20 years. New extensions of
50 rooms now ready. This hotel has been artis-
tically decorated throughout and offers unusually
spacious and attractive reception rooms.
Terms from 4 Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 9121.
PARK ROYAL HOTEL.
25-28 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK. W r .2.
This charming hotel offers terms from 3 Guineas
per week. First-class reception-rooms and cuisine.
Inspection invited. Accommodation for 90 guests.
Delightful home for residents.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone, Paddington 9712.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL.
29-31 LEINSTER GARDENS, HYDE PARK. W. 2.
Recently acquired, newly decorated and refur-
nished ; delightful reception-rooms. Refinement
guaranteed, with young and cheerful society.
Terms from 3 Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast from Bs. 6d.
Telephone. Paddington §022.
The above Hotels are under the personal super-
vision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland's
Entire Population.
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
3The IBtisbane Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
v # *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from :
Sthe Brisbane (Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen -street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
EOBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
hondon Agents- H. O. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a wo,man needs to know
u
:t'[
P
I
&
V I
r>
m
z
%
Si’
-i
K
N
\\V\
\
WINTER in SUMMER SEAS
UNION CO. Excursions to South Sea Isles
offer a triple choice to Winter Holiday-
makers. Sydney Auckland Suva
Honolulu—Return
(£75 First Saloon; £55 Second).
Sailings: MONOWAI, MAY 28.
NIAGARA, JUNE 25.
Further particulars and fares from—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney ; 59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN
Excursions to Hawaii
&
&3*
mr
B 3
BURNS PHILP TOURS
THE GARDEN OF THE EAST
SMOOTH WATER VOYAGE
WHICH IS A HOLIDAY IN ITSELF
Regular monthly sailings by the
popular vessels S.S. “MARELLA,”
7500 tons; M.V. “MALABAR,” 5000
tons.
Return Fare from Sydney,
i £Bl
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
Travel in Picture, Verse and Story.
Read the “B.P. Magazine,” 1/- a copy
All Newsagents and Booksellers.
BURNS. PhILP &.C?,L T . D
7 BRIDGE ST, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liabiilty
d
£7,500,000
6,150,000
7,500,000
£21,150,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1930 £89,228,378
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
594 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed—
*
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 4f Bridge Street. Sydney.
A“ AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—aq illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.-2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 850 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’* takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Abraham Lincoln,” now at Sydney
Lyceum, outclasses “Disraeli” inasmuch as it
is historically accurate and much more
spaciously and imaginatively produced. The
great man’s entire life is traced, from his
childhood in the famous log cabin to the
assassination in Ford’s Theatre. Into the
intervening years D. W. Griffith has crammed
many well-known episodes and sayings, and
some apocryphal ones designed to show the
hero’s greatness of heart and mind—events
which should have occurred even if they
didn’t. Most of the picture shows a youth-
ful, unbearded Lincoln doing manual labor,
serving in a New Salem shop, making love to
Ann liutledge, giving way to boyish despair
when she dies. He is iron when the time
comes to lead the North and save the Union.
Some of the sets, such as the bombardment
of Fort Sumter and the theatre scene, have
been done with astonishing attention to
detail and indifference to expense, and the
acting of all hands is masterly in its simple
realism. Walter Huston uses very little
make-up as Lincoln, and he has the tradi-
tional figure and a resonant voice that any
American President might be proud of. Great
casting and a great study. The cinema is
at its best in a picture like this, which is
a work of art, an inspiration (nationally and
otherwise) and a fine entertainment, all
in one.
H- * H-
Fox pre-showed a film this week that drew
colossal houses in the U.S.A. as “Oh, For a
Man!” Our censor, blushing hotly, changed
the name to “What a Man!” Jeannette
MacDonald is a petulant prima donna whose
retinue, in the words of her ballyhoo-pro-
vider, “know her eccentricities but love her
none the less.” As she puts it, “They
clamor for my voice, my beauty, my art,
but they never ask me for a baby.” Return-
ing from a night of frenzied ovations to an
apartment which Marie Antoinette might
have considered rococo she is surprised by
a burglar. She “falls” for him ; he for her.
That is, in effect, the story. It is easy to
swallow for those who can assume the mat-
ing of an Adelina Patti with a Bill Sykes.
The rest isn’t so easy. Miss MacDonald
doesn’t sing in the least like the sort of
prima donna who plays “Isolde”; musical
comedy is her high-water mark. Reginald
Denny is allegedly an Irishman, and he
doesn’t talk like one. If they couldn’t have
made the lady a world-famed aviatrix or
tragedienne they might at least have
arranged for a genuine prima donna to
double for her. There was no reason what-
ever for making Denny an Irishman. Ire-
land has no monopoly of the burgling busi-
ness. The impression left by the film, apart
from its inherent vulgarity, is that a moron
producer has wasted an excellent cast. Mar-
jorie White and Warren Ilymer figure on
the programme, but Miss MacDonald’s maid,
who is about the best of the bunch, doesn’t.
■> * * *
“What a Widow,” by United Artists, at
Melbourne State, is mainly a demonstration
of the virtuosity of Gloria Swanson in the
art of laughing. As Tamarind, an Ameri-
can girl untimely bereft of her millionaire
husband, Gloria laughs all over Paris, in
the faces of gigantic Cossacks, crapulous
cabaret dancers and opera singers. Tin*
laugh is a potent aphrodisiac. It impels
all her lovers to invite her to accompany
them to various parts of Europe. Gloria,
however, is keeping her laugh chaste and
holy for the expected silent, strong Ameri-
can. He arrives, and the audience is left in
no doubt that Gloria will laugh him into his
grave sooner or later. The plot is as thin
as paper, but the cameraman makes it flit
by with commendable rapidity. Miss Swan-
son assists to give the frivolous mixture an
appearance of body by keeping it in ceaseless
ferment.
“Brothers,” the other item on the bill, is
a Columbia production, and is blessed with
a powerful story in which booze is painfully
predominant. The yarn of the young man who
defends his twin brother on a charge of
murder unaware of the relationship is
stereotyped, but the method of hand-
ling is the beginning of realism. We knbw
what the characters do. if we don’t know
much what they think. Bert Lytell skilfully
doubles the parts of the two brothers, and
there is a fine passage of humor in the cross-
examination of an Italian witness.
* K■ *
“A Matrimonial Problem” (Warner), at
the Palace, Melbourne, was done in the flesh
at the Athenaium in 1928 as “Mr. What’s
His Name.” Frank Fay, as Adolphe Noblet,
the sauce manufacturer who loses liis mem-
ory in a railway accident, marries again and
becomes Paris’s most fashionable bai-ber, is
a first-rate actor, but he is no more French
than a club sandwich. At one stage he sings
a sentimental ditty in the Al Jolson manner.
Forgetting its French origin, however, the
Palace version is excellent. There is wild
farce in the barber’s return to his own fire-
side, where he is invited to do his first wife’s
hair. Here the eminent hypnotist Dr.
Baudin makes a few passes over him which
cause him to forget the last five years, and
returns his mind to the pre-accident period.
His wife, who has married again, is thus
confronted with the problem of two hus-
bands in the house. Humor deepens into
pathos when the wdfe and children of his
tonsorial days turn up and he decides to
return to them. A Gallic touch is his part-
ing remark to his first wife that he hopes
he will have the pleasure of attending to her
coiffure in the future. This ending spoilt
the play’s run at the Athenaeum, but Mel-
bourne has become more sophisticated since.
Also ort* the Palace bill is “The Road to
Paradise,” which Muriel Starr staged at
the Princess as “Cornered” three years
ago. The story is of twin sisters,
one of whom becomes a society beauty,
while the other is snatched from the cradle
and brought up by crooks. By an extra-
ordinary twist of Fate 'the crooks burgle
the rich sister’s domicile, thus bringing the
twins together in circumstances painful to
both but not beyond the powers of a pro-
ducer to bring to a happy ending. The pic-
ture is a thriller in which Australia’s old
acquaintance George Barraud bears off the
acting honors. George’s devilish good looks
and Luciferian smile condemn him to master-
crook parts for the rest of his talkie exist-
ence.


=rT!
- I
=3)
/S
Rubber-soled brogues
reduced in price!
Soled with thick crepe
rubber which is sewn to a
stout leather base, this
Abbey Golf Shoe is delight-
fully resilient. Neatly
brogued, with low-cut sides
and an upper curved to fit
the instep arch without the
least strain, it allows com-
plete muscle freedom. This
shoe is ideal for active wear.
It is made as light in weight
as is possible without loss of
strength. And the price has
been reduced from 50/-
Order by post
Both full and half sizes are available in
medium and wide fittings. Specify width
and length, and order, also, a tin of the
correct Abbey Preservative Polish ((id.),
or a cleaning outfit (2/6).
Brown Willow Calf,
46/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS?
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY
FPL 223.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Flashlights « Batteries << Radio Tubes
ď
Buy the Best
Less Often
There is no economy in
buying inexpensive and
badly made Electric
Torches and Batteries.
The less you pay the
oftener you purchase
the batteries.
Ray-o-VAC Flashlights
and Batteries are made
by one of the oldest
makers of these goods.
They are the best ob-
tainable.
New Rotomatic Switch
absolutely prevents the
light ever being rurned
on accidentally. RaY-O-
VAC is the only flashlight
madewith the ROTO-
MATIC Switch
Your nearest distributor
will gladly show you the
complete line.
Manufacturer’* Representative
W. C. SCHWAB
Box 1821, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Viet.
FRENCH BATTERY CO.
CHICAGO U.S.A.
A A
BACON and BREAD SLICING MACHINES
AUSTRALIAN-MADE
MODELS FROM 507-
merchants AND DISTRIBUTORS, write
for particulars of special wholesale prices to the
Manufacturers:
HUMPHREY EARL LIMITED,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
* /
ty
M
ii
NARCH
Craig kAitken
"Wholesale
Distributors
Stjdney N.5.W.
RUMPS
FOR ALL PURPOSE*
1 :
Below is illustrated the popular “ MACSON”
Double Acting Piston Pump.
It has earned a name for very economical running
and gives a plentiful flow at a good pressure.
When making these Pumps at our Works we
embodied several improvements which are not to
be found in other similar type of pumps.
In four sizes, for pipes 1{- up to 2\ inch diameter.
Capacities 420 to 2500 gallons per hour.
Prices Range from £l6/10/- F.O.R. Melbourne.
Full particulars and Catalogues on request.
M
PTY. LTD.
554 Collins St., Melbourne. 51 Bathurst St., Sydney.
116 Waymouth St., Adelaide. 532 Murray St., Perth.
đ
MACHINERY SPECIALISTS SINCE l&O
(1) Sodium chlorate. (2) For deep-root-
ing weeds a 10 per cent, solution (lib. in
1 gallon) is required. Many weeds can be
destroyed by a 1 per cent, solution (lib. to
10 gallons).
(1) At wliat time should ring-harking he
done in North Q’land? (2) Which is more
satisfactory, frilling or removing a complete
ring of hark? (3) How to deal with suckers?
—2438.
(1) During the period of inflorescence or
maximum seasonal growth of the tree, which
is coincident with the rainy season. (2)
Depends largely on the operator. Good frill-
ing is 99 per cent, effective and is cheaper
than removing the bark. (3) Poisoning with
arsenic pentoxide of 20 per cent, strength
applied immediately after making a V cut
into the base of the suckers. Applications
can be made by means of a swab. Tender
sucker growths can be effectively dealt with
by spraying with a solution of the same
strength.
Can you suggest fair terms of a share-
farming agreement between a business man
who owns a dairy farm in Gippsland,
together with all stock and plant, and a man
and his wife who are to work it on a pay-
ment-hy-results basis? The owner wishes
to retain the right to see that the farm is
worked on satisfactory lines. —2258.
A form of agreement which is generally
considered equitable is as follows. Owner
finds land, stock and plant, and tenant finds
labor. Tenant receives one-third cream
returns, one-third to one-half returns from
pigs and from 3s. to 15s. for every calf
reared to six months of age. If necessary
to purchase fodder, owner pays two-tliirds
and tenant one-third. In growing fodder
crops, owner pays for seed and manure and
tenant finds labor. If any surplus fodder
is sold owner gets two-thirds of proceeds
and tenant one-third.
How can I filter muddy dam-water to
make it safe for drinking?- —2439.
Filtration is almost impossible, as the fine
colloidal clay chokes up the filters in a
very short time. Sedimentation with slaked
lime, ferric chloride, alumina ferric or ordi-
nary alum is generally successful. Small
amounts (lib. to lOOOgal.) are used, and
these do not give a taste or make the water
injurious.
Has it ever been proved that the berries of
the white cedar are poisonous for pigs and
poultry? If so, in what part of the plant is
the poison secreted? —2583.
Investigations undertaken in 1920 at
Hawkesbury and in 1927 at Glenfield proved
that half a pound of the green berries would
kill a pig. Later investigations by the N.S.W.
Agriculture Department demonstrated that
as little as 4i)oz. of ripe berries will kill a pig
weighing up to 441 b. Recent South African
experiments have shown that the most
toxic part of the tree is the ripe drupe
(berry), the flowers, green drupe and bark
being less toxic. Pigs and sheep were most
readily poisoned, wdiile fowls, muscovy ducks
and goats were less affected. The only part
of the drupe found to be toxic was the soft,
yellowish rind (epicarp), the shell and
kernel being quite harmless. Although tests
have not yet been undertaken in this country
to determine the toxicity of “white cedar”
for fowls, poultry-keepers should be guided
by the South African investigations.
A form of diarrhoea has broken out among
my hens, and several have died. The fowls
are in good condition and laying, and an
adjoining pen of young fowls has not been
affected. The droppings are at first deep
green and change to light yellow, when the
fowls die. Feeding on grain appears to aggra-
vate the disease. Cause and cure f—2247.
In ybur district (Toowoomba, Q.) diarrhoea
is certainly present, but it is invariably due
to the effects of the poultry tick. It is of
little use to treat for diarrhoea under such
conditions. Spray with kerosene emulsion
weekly until the pest is entirely eradicated.
Diarrhoea may also be due to improper feed-
ing or to exposure. F'owls are frequently
given spoiled foods, and obtain access to
putrifying flesh, and are permitted to drink
from stagnant pooLs, etc. In such cases the
cause must be removed. Once this is done
treatment with permanganate of potash or
catechu should be tried, coupled with the
feeding of easily-digested foods. When using
the permanganate make the drinking water
a good red color, and with catechu add a
teaspoonful to each gallon of drinking water.
How are bananas dried for figs? What
sort of boxes are required for sweating, how
should the product be packed for market,
and names of buying firms? —2291.
The bananas are cut before any indication
of softening is present, though they may be
fully developed; the skin is carefully removed
with a sharp knife; the pulp is cut into
sections longitudinally. The sections are
put in shallow trays having fine gauze
wire bottoms and placed in partial shade to
dry. Exposure to sun would tend to dis-
coloration. The trays are taken in every
afternoon before sunset, when they are placed
one on top of the other, and put out again
the following day about. 8 a.m. The time
occupied in drying depends on the size of the
sections into which tin; fruit has been severed,
and varies from seven to fourteen days. No
sweating is required. When the fruit has
become reasonably dry it is immersed for
about 20 minutes in heavy syrup at a
temperature of 190 deg. F., and dried after
removal from the syrup. For packing, small
cardboard boxes lined with grease-proof
paper and containing lib. to 31b. are used.
Confectionery firms are the most likely
buyers.
(1) Some of the branches of my dt-year
oramge-trees have a pinky patch on them,
and the leaves have all gone. The fruit
ripens and falls off when half grown. Cause
and remedy? (2) Suitable spray for young
peach-trees to clean out maagots in fruit and
rust on leaves? —2298.
(1) It is a fungus which encircles the
branch and eventually kills it. Paint the
branches with Bordeaux paste, or spray
wdth Bordeaux mixture (6-4-40). The falling
of fruit and foliage from branches not
affected by the fungi is probably attribut-
able to the decay of fibrous roots caused by
excess of moisture in the soil. (2) For rust,
spray while trees are dormant with Bor-
deaux mixture, as indicated for citrus fungi,
and with a weaker solution (4-4-40) when
in foliage. Only efficacious method of dealing
with maggots is to lure the adult fly. Use
in ordinary glass flytraps a lure compounded
of 1 teaspoon vanilla essence (artificial),
1 tablespoon Scrubb's ammonia and 1|
pints of water.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mac L.”: Before replacing the cylinder
head on car truck or tractor-engine, provide
against a leaking gasket. Should there be
any doubt about it, making a perfect seal,
place the gasket in boiling water and boil
for ten minutes. If the holes are sealed
with copper rims, puncture the copper facing
in various places to allow the water to
penetrate to the asbestos. When dried out
it will be as good as new, and the treatment
can be repeated several times, thus increas-
ing the life of the gasket. When reassemb-
ling, coat both surfaces with motor grease.
“Bendee”: Kidney worms in pigs are a
danger in tropical and sub-tropical districts;
in N. S. Wales they are not likely to be
found far south of Sydney, or farther west
than the coastal belt. To guard against it,
keep the animals in open healthy surroundings,
with plenty of room to roam, and with
natural pasture feed, so that they wili not
nose round in their own droppings. Where
confinement is necessary, the greatest atten-
tion should be paid to cleanliness. Yards
should be disinfected frequently, and pigs
moved from yard to yard, to interfere as
far as possible with the life changes of the
larvae before infestation.
“FY7”: Many blowfly traps are expen-
sive. In north-west Queensland there is in
general use a trap which is both effective
and inexpensive, and dozens can be turned
out in a day. It consists of a petrol-tin
with the top cut out and the opening covered
with wire gauze. In the centre of the cover-
ing is a funnel of the same material about
2\ inches wfide to 3 inches deep and tapering
down to an inlet large enough to let the flies
through. Bait —meat, offal, dead birds or
anything of the sort—is placed in the tin
and about a gallon of water added. Keep
the bait moist by adding water every few
days until the tin becomes full of flies.
Decomposed flies from a used trap make
excellent bait for a new one.
“Werrimee”: When the top of a carpen-
ter’s brace is broken, an old door-knob makes
a good substitute. To hold it on, file a
groove round the broken part of the brace
for the screw of the knob to fit into. It will
then act as well as the original top.
“Mulyan” : A good roof for a small shed
can be made with kerosene-tins. Melt the
seams with a soldering iron; if you haven’t
one, stand the ends on a hot stove or red
coals till the solder melts. Treat the side
joint the same way. When straightened out
the sheet measures 36in. by 14in., with
turned edges all ready for lapping. Nail two
battens with small clouts, and finish with
a coat of roof paint. You have then a neat
and durable roof.
“Disc Harrow” : With the orchard plant-
ing season approaching, a little forethought
should be given to the time of harvesting.
Men have let themselves in for driving-
periods of work through a careless selection
of plums which all ripened together, or of
apples which fall badly. Matters should
be so arranged that a rush of fruit coming
at the same time is avoided. Also, apples
such as the Gravenstein should be planted
sparingly. The work of picking up windfalls
and keeping the straw clear comes just at
the height of the spraying rush.
“Tumbe Munda”: “What’s best to do with
stubble straw?” once more. I say, graze the
undergrowth out and put in a firestick.
Although our S. Aus. district is not reckoned
bad for grub plagues, I have seen them take
every grain of oats off a. crop that had prom-
ised to yield three tons of hay to the acre;
also in barley they will cut through the node
just below the straw and let the head fall to
the ground, stripping hundreds of acres in
a week. Last year, in a locality where the
grub plague recurs every few years, a farmer
and I t were sitting out in a paddock idly
picking at straws as we talked. We dis-
covered that on any straw we picked up.
between flag and stem, were hundreds of
grub eggs, many just hatching. And this was
in October.
“Disc Harrow” : When pruning-time comes
this year, make a resolve to get it over as
quickly as possible. Early pruning gives
the remaining selected buds a far better
chance to make sturdy growth. If there’s
ever a choice of two jobs through the winter,
get the secateurs out and let the other go.
“F 34”: “Fodgie” (B. 18/3/’3l) and I
were both wrong. Although Queensland fac-
tory returns are headed “Commercial Butter-
fat” (a confusing mixture of terms, at the
least) they pay for the commercial butter
content and not on the basis of butterfat.
“Fodgie’s” mistake is in thinking that butter-
fat and cream are the same thing. Butterfat
is the pure fat of milk, and is what is referred
to when one speaks of the “test” of milk or
cream. Thus in 1001 b. of 40 test cream there
is only 401 b. of butterfat; butter contains
82 per cent, of butterfat. I don’t cover
the butter directly with a damp cloth; it
is packed in an enamel bucket and that is
covered with a cloth —a coolgardie in minia-
ture.
“Bangtail”: The vogue of the Aberdeen-
Angus is increasing so steadily in Australia
that it is interesting to note, on the authority
of the British “Live Stock Journal,” that
Argentine growers have not much time for
the breed. This is surprising in a country
which specialises in high-quality beef for
export, and the reason is said to be the dis-
inclination of the freezing companies to pay
extra prices for this type, although the
Europe and American markets demand it.
It is recognised that the primest beef seen
at Smithfield is the Scottish, which is in-
variably Aberdeen-Angus or from close
crosses, mostly the A.-A.-cim-shorthorn. This
last is a point Australian fanciers of the
“Doddies” might note. An A.-A. bull on a
shorthorn cow is an ideal combination. A.-A.’s,
being primarily beef cattle, are poor milkers.
The calves from the shorthorn cross get a
good start from the better milk supply of
their dam, and, given ample feeding after
the sucking stage, are likelier to mature early
and combine that weight of carcase with
choice quality of meat that is demanded
nowadays.


Our ServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let”, notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Man, 33 years’ exp. city and country goods
transport, can drive Diesel-engined trucks, seeks em-
ployment, any State. Refs. —2596.
Healthy outdoor job wanted by young Uni. gradu-
ate, Vic., or elsewhere. —2610.
Englishwoman (37), Sydney, anxious to . reach
England, will give services in return for passage.
Domestic, nursing and business exp.—2sB2.
Journalist and photographer, wide exp. city and
country, wants position, or would lease or buy small
country journal.—2sB9.
Girl typist (19), Sydney, wants position.—262l.
Journalist in England (sub-editor) wants exchange
one year, Australia. —2616.
Strong boy, 15, Sydney, wants job on farm,
orchard or station, or with trapper.—2s32.
Cook and baker (25), W.A., wants position with
baker and pastrycook. Refs.—2s6l.
Girl (21) wants position in Q’land as governess
or companion-help. All subjects except music.
Knowledge of nursing. Refs. —2534.
Retrenched civil servant, Sydney, with £BOO and
knowledge of accountancy, wants partnership in
country town, any State. Refs, exchanged.—2s42.
Man (55) wants job as liftdriver, cleaner, night-
watchman, or any position of trust.—2499.
To buy copies of “National Geographic Magazine’’
from 1927 to date.—2623.
To buy set of correspondence-course lessons on
freelance journalism, second-hand.—2s92.
To buy fairy-floss-making machine.—26os.
Words of verse by Henry Lawson wherein he hits
at various A.W.U. officials and speaks about Donald
Macdonell turning in his grave.—26os.
Whereabouts of Joe Barnden, who was working
on a sheep station at Warialda (N.S.W.) two years
ago. (To T. P. Baker, 47 Gardenia-street, Black-
burn, Vic.)
To exchange full set “Wonderful Britain” for
History of New Zealand or classical work. —2508.
Whereabouts of Thomas Edwin Willey, last heard
of in Tasmania. Brother in London inquires.—2565.
To hire for month or buy, horse-drawn caravan,
N.S.W. inquirer.—2516.
Wanted in N.S.W., market garden on shares, by
married man, small capital.—2s26.
Information Sought.
Under what conditions is the Governor-
General or a State Governor empowered to
dissolve Parliament ? —2566.
The power to dissolve the House of Repre-
sentatives is definitely conferred upon the
Governor-General in section 5 of the Com-
monwealth Constitution, and there are no
expressed limitations on that power. Under
section 57 he has power to dissolve both
Houses simultaneously in a case where the
Senate has twice rejected a law proposed and
passed by the House of Representatives. In
regard to a dissolution of the H. of R. alone
the G.-G. is traditionally subject to the con-
stitutional rule that enjoins ~hi.ru to take
such action when a vote of “no-confidence” is
carried against a Government which has not
already appealed to the country ; when there
are reasonable grounds to believe that an
adverse vote against the Government does
not represent the opinion of the country;
when the existing Parliament was elected
under the auspices of the opponents of the
Government, and when the majority against
a Government is too small to enable a strong
Government to be formed by the Opposition.
Another case, cited by Dicey in “The Law of
the Constitution,” is when the G.-G. has
fair reason to suppose that the opinion of
the House is not the opinion of the electors.
The same general powers are entrusted to a
State Governor, who in dissolving the elected
House (in cases where there is a non-elective
upper chamber) virtually ends Parliament,
and to him the same constitutional rules
apply.
(1) Has a woolclasser, over 21, quali-
fied at Sydney .Tech. College, any chance of
getting into the manufacturing trade in this
country or in England? (2) If so does
Vic. offer better opportunities than N.S.W. in
normal times ?■ —2229.
(1) Very little opportunity here without
influence; can’t speak as to English con-
ditions. (2) Conditions in both States are
about the same.
I propose manufacturing face-cream in
my own home and selling it to my friends.
Must I be registered for sales-tax purposes
and would I have to pay sales tax? —2243.
Not so long as the value of your sales
does not exceed £5OO p.a.
Can headphones be remagnetised from (1)
alternating current? (2) A four-volt accu-
mulator? (3) A “B" eliminator? —233s.
(1) No. (2) Yes. (3) Yes. The ’phones
must be placed in the plate circuit of the
last valve and the plate current reduced to
about six m/amps. Do not connect them
across the eliminator terminals. Certain
makes of headphones have their connections
marked with plus and minus signs. The cor-
rect polarity should be observed when remag-
netising.
I am buying a player-piano on instalments
in N. S. Wales, and can’t keep them up. If
I make smaller payments can the instrument
be taken away from me? —24o3.
Under the Moratorium Act it cannot be
seized during the term of the Act (up to
April, 1933) without leave of the Court.
I signed a contract recently for the pur-
chase of a property on terms, and now find
lam unable to raise the deposit. (1) Am
I liable for breach of contract? Can the
agent claim commission or expenses?■ —2429.
(1) The vendor can claim damages for
any loss sustained by him through your
non-fulfilment or can claim for specific per-
formance. (2) If the agent introduced you
to a vendor seeking a purchaser the vendor
pays.
Did Britain write off the Italian war
debt? If not, what are the facts?, —2446.
Italy borrowed from Britain for war pur-
poses £381,200,000, on which interest was
compounded monthly at 5 p.c. On January
27, 1926, when a basis of settlement was
arrived at, Italy owed £610,840,000. It was
agreed that Italy should pay in years,
by annual instalments, £272,500,000 in full
settlement. This was equivalent (on the
original 5 p.c. basis) to reducing the debt to
£84,300,000, so that £536,540.000, or 87.8 p.c.
of the liability, was, in effect, written off.
The Aorangi arrived at Suva on Friday,
February 13. On leaving Suva for Honolulu
a day is gained, and so the following day
was also Friday, 13th, so far as the ship was
concerned. What are the odds against such
a thing happening again? —^244B.
In the next 20 years Friday will fall on
the 13th on 26 occasions. Whether the
Aorangi or any other shin sailing the seas
will cross the 180th meridian on those dates
isn’t a calculable factor.
(1) Why arc the largest astronomical
telescopes reflectors? (2) In reflectors, is
the image which is thrown on the mirror
an enlarged one which can be examined by
a smaller telescope acting as a microscope?
(3) What is the most powerful telescope in
the world and the size of its reflector? (4)
What is the largest refracting telescope and
size? (5) Is there any ratio of comparison
between refractors and reflectors as to effi-
ciency of various diameters? —2342.
(1) Mainly a matter of cost. The large
glass discs required for the object glasses
of refractors are very hard to cast free from
defects. (2) Yes. (3) The lOOin. reflector
at Mount Wilson Observatory, U.S.A. (3)
The 40in. refractor at Yerkes Observatory,
U.S.A. (4) Approximately a 4in. refractor
is equivalent to an Sin. reflector, and a 20in.
refractor is equal to a 30in. reflector.
Between 40in. and 50in. they would be about
equal, and from 50in. up reflectors are con-
sidered superior, being free from chromatic
aberration, always more or less pronounced
in refractors.
I am prepared to spend £9O on a second-
hand motor-car. I know nothing about cars.
What is the best make of car to buy and
safest way to go about buying one in Mel-
bourne? —2397.
Cannot advise as to make of car, which,
anyway, is not the most important factor
in buying second-hand. Your best plan is
to seek the advice of the Secretary of the
Chamber of Automotive Industries, H. W.
Harrison, 343 Little Collins-street.
(1) What is the Bank of England “fidu-
ciary note issue”? (2) Is it equal to the
Bank of England note in purchasing power
within England? (3) Gan the holder of a
Bank of England note get gold on presen-
tation, whether he is leaving the country or
n0t?— 2432.
(1) That portion not backed £ for £ by
gold. It is represented by securities believed
to be readily convertible. (2) It is a Bank
of England note. (3) No, but he can buy
standard gold at £3 17s. 10Jd. per ounce
for overseas settlements.
(1) When will the next presentations to
Court take place in England this season?
(2) Who decides what persons are to be
presented, and who should be approached in
the first instance? (3) Has the High Com-
missioner's wife or Australia House any say
in presenting persons?— 2422.
(1) There is no fixed date for Court pre-
sentations, but the first Court of the season
is usually in May or early in .Tune. (2)
Nominally the Lord Chamberlain, but in
practice people known to him who have been
presented themselves. (3) The lady pre-
sents a number of Australians —mostly per-
sonal friends —every year. The High Com-
missioner, through the secretary (Mr.
Trumble), can arrange for others to be pre-
sented.
(1) Which travels the faster, the hub of
a wheel running on the road, or the rim?
(2) When a tree is felled does the butt or
the top move fastest in falling? —-2459.
(1) The rim. In one revolution, while
the hub moves forward the length of the
wheel’s circumference a point on the rim
describes a gently-curved path down to the
ground, then rises again to the top. Speed
of rim is roughly 25 p.c. greater than that
of the hub. (2) The butt in this case is
like the hub, and moves more slowly than
the top.
(1) Who was the author of the M.L.
Arbitration Act? (2) Is it intended to
encourage the formation of unions? (3) Is
it a fact that Seddon in later years regretted
that the Act had been passed? —247o.
(1) Its principal features were suggested
by J. A. Millar, afterwards Minister of
Labor, who had been an active leader of
unionists in the maritime strike of 1890, in
evidence which he gave before a Royal Com-
mission. Some clauses were borrowed from
the bill brought down by Premier Kingston,
of S.A., in 1890. William Pember Reeves
was the actual drafter of the Act. (2) The
preamble to the Act of 1894 stated speci-
fically that this was its intention, but the
reference was deleted later. (3) Only evi-
dence on that point is that he once testily
remarked that unionists were “riding the
Act to death.”
Is it an offence against the law in Aus-
tralia to brew malt beer for home consumn-
tion?—249o.
Any person who brews beer containing
.2 p.c. or more of proof spirit without a
license can be prosecuted. The maximum
penalty is a fine of £lOO.
(1) IIov) many scores cf 200 and over have
been made in first-class cricket by leading
batsmen since the days of W. G. Grace, and
who made them? (2) How many in Anglo-
Australian Test matches, and who made
them ?■ —2551.
(1) In matches ranked by “Wisden” as
first-class, which include inter-county play
in England, the number of scores of over 200
made by “leading batsmen” was 144 —E.
Hendren 18. C. B. Fry 16, J. B. Hobbs 15,
Iv. S. Ranjitsinhji 14, J. T. Tyldesley 13,
W. G. Grace 13, C. P. Mead 12, D. G. Brad-
man 12, J. W. Hearne 11; W. R. Hammond
10, P. Holmes 10. (2) Five —three by Brad-
man and two by Hammond.
What was Cagliostro, and what were his
most famous exploits? —2olB.
He was an Italian impostor, posing as an
alchemist, whose dissolute life and criminal
ingenuity gained for him notoriety all over
Europe during the latter half of the
eighteenth century. Implicated in the
famous affair of the diamond necklace
in France, he escaped conviction by
the impudence of his defence, but was
imprisoned for other reasons in the Bas-
tille. Venturing to Rome in 1789 lie
was tried for freemasonry and sorcery and
condemned to death, but the sentence was
commuted. He died in 1795.
Can steam be taken from a steel boiler
and condensed by passing it through a lead
coil submerged in running water, for the pur-
pose of making distilled water for accumu-
lators? —2132.
The presence of small particules of iron
oxide and other impurities would render this
method unsuitable. Rain water collected in
large earthenware dishes may be used when
distilled water is not available. Do not
employ rain water collected from corrugated
iron roofs.
How to put a brig about, and the neces-
sary orders? —1975.
It is assumed that the vessel is carrying
all plain sail and no kites. See all clear
for about. Haul up the mainsail. Keep
her sails full, and as much way on as is
possible. When all is ready, hard down with
the helm and let go fore sheets and head
sheets. When the brig is about two points
in the wind “main-topsail haul,” and haul
the trysail bo’om amidships. Haul round all
main yards. The brig will then come head
to wind and pay off on the other stretch.
When clear, get everything drawing on the
main and let go and haul round the head
yards. Meet her with the helm, and stand
on. The orders would be “Stand by to go
about,” “Haul up the mainsail,” “Leech,”
“Down helm” or “Hard down the helm,”
simultaneously with “Let go head sheets and
fore sheets,” “Main topsail haul,” “Haul in
the trysail sheet,” “Mainsail haul” and “Lee
fore brace,” “Haul in the head sheets.”
These would, of course, not necessarily be
given with an efficient, crew, who would be
thoroughly conversant with the manoeuvre.
Brigs are almost extinct, and there have not
been any sailing out of Sydney for about
20 years.
Brief details of the career of Haddon
Chambers, the Australian playwright? —23o7.
Born at Stanmore (Sydney), April 22,
IS6O, educated at Fort-street school and
entered the Public Service at 15. Afterwards
he went canvassing and worked on a station.
For a while he managed the Montagu-Turner
opera company, and in 1882 settled in
London as a freelance journalist and play-
wright. In 1888 his play “Captain Swift”
was a London success, and “The Idler”
(1890), “Jolin-a-Dreams” (1894) and “The
Tyranny of Tears” (1899) established his
reputation. During the Great War he was
employed on propaganda work. Died March
27, 1921.
Is there much illiteracy in Australia, and
to what extent are the people better educated
(so far as being able to read and write )
than they were 50 years ag0? —2305.
During the period 1871 to 1921 the pro-
portion per 10,000 of the population of Aus-
tralia able to read and -write advanced from
a little over 6000 to nearly 8500. The percent-
age of persons signing marriage registers
with a mark to the total persons married
in the census year 1921 was only 0.17, as
compared with 24.60 in 1861.
Is Australia subject to severe windstorms?
What areas are the most troubled? —2153.
During the winter the southern shores
are subject to cyclonic storms. North-east
Queensland is occasionally visited by hurri-
canes from the north-east during the first
four months of the year. Cyclones, locally
known as “willy-willies” are peculiar to the
north-west coast of W.A. from November to
April inclusive.
Is F. Tennyson Jesse, who wrote “Tom
Fool ” and “The Lacquer Lady,” a man or
a woman? Can you tell me something
about the icriter’s career? —2042.
A woman, daughter of the late Rev.
Eustace Tennyson d’Eyncourt Jesse, a
nephew of Lord Tennyson the poet. She
studied painting as a pupil of Stanhope
Forkes, R.A., and his wife, exhibited one or
two pictures at Liverpool and Leeds, and
illustrated a book. Going to London, the lady
worked for the “Times” and the “Daily
Mail” as a reporter and wrote book reviews
for the “Times” literary supplement and
the “English Review.” During the war
she acted as a war correspondent and did
special work for the Ministry of Informa-
tion, the National Relief Commission and
the French Red Cross. She married H. M.
Harwood, theatrical producer and playwright,
in 1918.
(1) What is the Apocrypha? (2) What
are the names of the books in it? (3) Why
are they not included in the Bible? —2lB2.
(1) A collection of records, partly histori-
cal, partly allegorical, included, all save 2
Esdras, in the Greek version of the Old
Testament. (2) Esdras 1 and 2; Esther,
Wisdom, Ecclesiasticus, Baruch, fragments
added to Daniel, Prayer of Manasses, Tobit,
Judith and Maccabees, 1 and 2. (3) The
Roman Catholic Church makes a distinction
between these books and those of the Hebrew
canon. The Council of Trent (Anglican)
affirmed the canonicity of the greater part,
but did not include them in the Bible. As
the name given them indicates, these books
were regarded by early divines as being in
their nature hidden, secret, and so of uncer-
tain origin and authority.
Brief Answers.
F.C.: Write N.S.W. Agriculture Depart-
ment for pamphlet “Cold Storage of Fruit’’....
H. : At present the bulk of the rabbit-skins
arriving in Sydney are from the New England
(N.S.W.) district V.0.R.: From Dr. J. W. S.
Laidley, hon. sec. Ski Club of Australia, 137
Macquarie-street, Sydney... .J. 0.5.: Nothing to pre-
vent your settling there as a resident. It would be
futile, however, to go with a view to obtaining
employment.... R.C.W.: (1) If negligence can be
shown, you can proceed against him. (2) Legal
charges depend on the work done and are regulated
by scale. .. .J.A.8.: The seed is not grown in Nor-
folk Island. Australian-grown seed is obtainable
from Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney;
6d. per packet, Is. 3d. per oz., 3s. 6d. per Jib., or
10s. per lib., post free E.G.F.: (1) Johnson 32.
(2) 36 h.p., 4 cylinders. (3) 12ft. by 4ft
J. 8.8.: Get in touch with W. H. Toose, 5 Stoke-
avenue, Marrickville; C. Cambourn, Barnstaple-road,
Five Dock; or 11. E. Hatton, Kissing Point-road,
Turramurra —all Sydney. .. .E.R.: The Peanut Board,
Agriculture Department, Brisbane, will forward design
of a home-made peanut thresher on application....
J.R. : Apply Home Affairs Department, Canberra,
or to any of the leading island traders... .J.E.S.M.:
Van Diemen’s Land stamps with pen cancellations
are of little value. The 2d. stamp, if postmarked
and in good condition, would probably be worth
about 10s A.W.: Write to the General Register
Office, Somerset House, London, W.C., for a copy.
C.W.S.: Get in touch with Balfour Motors
Co., Geelong, Vic F.C.A.: Articles entitled
“Advice to Authors” in “The Aust. and N.Z. Writers'
and Artists’ Year Book,” and “Marketing the Novel,”
in Gerald Dillon’s “Why Editors Regret,” cover! the
ground W. 8.: F. W. Thring, c/o Efftee Film
Production Co., Her Majesty’s Theatre, Melbourne.
. ...L.L.8.: (1) £10; obtainable from the British
General Electric Co., 104 Clarence-street, Sydney.
(2) About £2. Operates on a voltage of about 150.
(3) “Television,” by Gernsback; obtainable from
Swains, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney, 2s. 3d., post free. .. .
N.R.: Recruiting has been temporarily suspended,
Write Naval Board, Defence Department, Melbourne.
R.W.I.: “Sydney Morning Herald” has the
larger circulation J.0.J.: New System Telephone
Co., 280 Castlereagh-street, Sydney 8.R.: A disso-
lution of both Senate and the House of Represen-
tatives took place on July 30, 1914. The then
Gov.-Gen. granted the dissolution on the advice of
the Ministry under section 57 of the Consti-
tution K.W.: At June 30, 1929, the white popu-
lation of Papua was 1523. Estimated native pop. is
275,000 P.E.J.: “Games and Toys” (monthly,
Is.), Vernon House, Sicilian-avenue, Southampton-
row, London, W.C H.R.: “That Day at Boiling-
Downs,” by Jack Mathieu, is in “The Bulletin Reciter, ’
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney... .L.V.: Chief fruit-
growing districts in Canada are the Annapolis Valley
(Nova Scotia) ; St. John Valley (New Brunswick) ;
Niagara Peninsula (Ontario) ; and Okanagan Valley
(British Columbia) J.M.K.: You are not eligible
to receive an old-age pension.... F.W.: In 1928-29
236,3001 b. of oranges, valued at £4997, were
imported from the U.S.A. ; in 1929-30, 389,6001 b.,
valued at £7829 G.E.: Jockey IV. H. Smith was
killed at Rosehill racecourse (Sydney), on March 21,
1914, while riding Aurofodina A. 8.: There are
no textbooks; you can obtain the Federal Act and
Regulations from the Government Printer, Canberra,
and the local Acts from the Government Printer,
Melbourne. Other information can be procured
through the Law Book Co., 425 Chancery-lane (Vic.).
No prescribed course of study.... C.R.D.: It has
been the practice to include such clauses, but the
consensus of legal opinion is that they- aie nugatoiy
against the Act of 1930 W.S.C.: If the talkies
were there first, they would have ground for action
against their noisy neighbor for creating a nuisance.
H.A.S.: (1) Yes. (2) The Act applies to ail
overdrafts except where a fluctuating advance exceeds
£3OOO. The bank is not required to meet the
Crown Land charges. (3) The bank cannot, with-
out leave of the Court, call up or demand payment
of any part of the principal sum secured J.S.P.:
Artilleryman and Richmond Main ran a dead heat
for first place in the 1919 A.J.C. Derby. Millieme
was third W.S.T.: The vessel was the Silberhorn,
a four-masted iron barque. She left Newcastle
(N.S.W.) with coal for Iquique, June, 1907; was
spoken during the next month and was never seen
again. Months later one of her lifebuoys was
found on the shores of Pitcairn Island S.S.: A
copy of Gill’s “Myths and Songs from the South
Pacific” (1876), original cloth, uncut, changed hands
in London recently at 18s. 6d W. 1.: (1) The
crabs must be killed before cooking by driving a
butcher’s knife through the carapace or shield on
the back, about' lin. from its posterior edge. The
knife must go right through the crab. It then
bleeds to death and may be cooked without shedding
its appendages. (2) Only by cooking N.P.:
Area of Q’land is 670,500 square miles, of which
359,000 are within the tropics. It is more than
twice the size of N.S.W. and nearly eight times
that of Victoria E.C.D.: A war pension may be
paid to a parent of a deceased soldier whose death
was due to war sendee, should that, parent be at
any time without adequate means of support. A
parent who has an income in excess of 30s. pel
week would not be eligible... .R.G.M.L.: The petrol
consumption of a 3|-h.p. engine direct coupled to
a 14-k.w. generator should average about 21 to 3
hours to the gallon... .T.W.: “Handboifc for ’Wireless
Telegraph Operators” (Is.), obtainable from Marconi
School of Wireless, 97 Clarence-street, Sydney;
“Admiralty Handbook of Wireless Telegraphy” (os.
6d), and “Wireless Valve Transmitters,” by IV.
James (125.), obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son W.H.8.: Air seasoning, water seasoning and
steam kilns. Kiln seasoning may be done by water
spray, external blower, internal fan, or in a low-
pressure, high-humidity compartment... .11.V.5.:
Health Department, Sydney, will furnish pamphlets.
....Mac.: (1) England and Wales, population
39,607,000; Scotland, 4,896,600; Northern Ireland,
I, ; Irish Free State, 2,971,992. (2) Northern
Ireland comprises the Parliamentary counties 0£
Antrim, Armagh, Down, Fermanagh, Londonderry,
and Tyrone and the Parliamentary boroughs of Bel-
fast and Londonderry.. ...F.T.: Interest on money
invested outside Australia by a resident of Australia
is taxable under the Federal Act unless such interest
is chargeable with income tax in the country in
which it is derived Curtis: Can’t recommend any.
J.O.J.: Thos. A. Edison’s address is Llewellyn
Park, Orange, New Jersey, U.S.A 11. D.: (1)
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Dowling-street,
Waterloo, Sydney. (2) Mauri Bros, and Thomson,
61 York-street, Sydney A.C.K.: Visitors from
N.S.W. to Q’land are not required to register or
notify the police, provided (a) the registration
is current, ( b) the vehicle does not proceed to
any place more than 100 miles from the border
and does not remain in Q’land for a longer
continuous period than 14 days... .S.T.R.: Law Book
Co., 140 Phillip-street, Sydney, has published a
book on the Act, price 5s A.G.S.: “Don Quixote”
is pronounced as in Spanish, “Don Iveehotay”—the
“o” broad as in “cold.” The anglicised adjective
“quixotic” is pronounced “quicks-ott-ik,” with the
accent on the “ott” (Many others mailed.)


Tried
For more than 136 years public
opinion has endorsed the value of
Rowland’s Macassar Oil as a means
of keeping the hair in perfect con-
dition and preventing thin or grey
hair.
In bottles, of
C h e m i sts,
Stores and
H a i rdressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden
for fair or
grey hair.
x
Macassar ©II
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.p.67.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
The great Australian metropolitan
newspapers can defy comparison with
the world’s best. Their information
is so thoroughly reliable. Ask any of
the managers whether The Barrier
Miner” is the advertising medium for
Broken Hill and the Far West. They
know,
exporting
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS
fHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES-C-
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
NO ESCAPE
By Velia Ercole
Synopsis : The story opens in 1905
in the small town of Banton, N. 8.
Wales, west of the Blue Mountains,
where Dr. Gherardi, an Italian poli-
tical exile, has _ settled with his icife
and son, and is establishing a prac-
tice. He is troubled by the fret-
fulness of his icife, who accom-
panied him to Banton against his
wish, but who now, he feels, is making
no effort to adapt herself to his cir-
cumstances. Allegations touching upon
his professional performance and other
misunderstandings make him, deter-
mined to leave, but imperceptible influ-
ences work to keep him there. He has
made a friend of John Cartwright,
Banton’s leading citizen, and is slowly
winning the respect and friendship of
others. But Mrs. Gherardi becomes
more and more intent upon returning
to Italy, and at last, when their house
is burnt down, wins Dr. Ghcrardi’s
agreement that they should go. Going
to the bank after the fire, Dr. Gherardi
is made to see Banton’s people in a
new light—they have anonymously sub-
scribed £3OO as a token of appreciation
of his work and sympathy in his loss.
He feels that he cannot go now, and
rejects Mrs. Gherardi’s suggestion that
he should return the gift; since he
regards it as a tie. Mrs. Gherardi
becomes more and more fretful, and,
completely losing her control, she
takes strychnine. Dr. Gherardi leaves
Banton, but only temporarily. He
returns —to make atonement. Dino
he leaves at school, but the boy runs
away, and he has to go back to Sydney
to get him.
Chapter VII ( Continued).
(4) .
WITH Dino home, life in the hotel was
of course impossible. Having taken
a lease of the new house, Leo paid
a visit to Ern Maple’s Furniture Exchange,
where Ern managed to conceal his delight
when Leo asked if any of his furniture still
remained unsold.
“You’ve just come in time, Doctor,” he
said with a secretive, undecided air, which
had more than once effected a quick sale.
“I’ve had a fancy to sell that stuff entire.
A couple settin’ up house or that. I’ve
had a lot of offers for pieces. But I hung
out. Now I got several breakin’ their necks
after it. Young Donny Pike’s goin’ to git
married, you know. He was in here late as
yesterday after that stuff. He’s lettin’ me
know to-day if he can meet the price. It
saves a lot of trouble, and it’s worth more
than the money they gives, buyin’ lock,
stock and barrel like this.”
Finally he sold the furniture to Leo for
twice as much as he had given for it,
because, as he stated sadly, a man has to
make something. The trouble of storing and
keeping in condition, which ain’t so easy in
this climate. And shop space taken up.
He’d had to turn down a few good bargains
simply because he didn’t have a comer to
squeeze them into. Leo would understand
that.
Leo submitted to being robbed without a
murmur. He was not pressed for money.
He made more than sufficient for his needs
and he had no call to save now.
A housekeeper was found for him by
McGodd, his landlord. McCodd didn’t look
further than his home to find what he
sought. To his sister Minnie he said one
fine morning. “Well, now, you’ve said
enough times to. me that the only reason
you stays around my house is because you
weren’t brought up to do anything to earn
a living for yourself. You said that twenty-
five years ago when pa died. Well, now,
I got a job for you. You know how to run
a house wait a minute, can’t you!” as
his thin sister opened her mouth to pro-
test. “It’s no domestic servant, this. It’s
the job of housekeeper to the doctor. You
can get young Emily’s cousin to do the rough
work. I spoke to the doc. about her. Now
you’ll have what’s practically a home of
your own to ran, and you can do all those
things you been naggin’ at Mirry to do for
the last twenty years. Go to it!”
Minnie, thin, angular, with her boned-
lace collars, which seemed to be holding up
her withered face, and her definite agree-
ment that she was to attend both morn-
ing and evening service each Sunday, come
what may, took her position up in Leo’s
house, not without some qualms as to the
morality of the proceeding. When she dis-
covered Leo’s complete godlessness she sub-
limated her occupation, and believed that
she was the instrument devised to lure the
doctor back to the fold. Her endeavors as
the Lord’s right hand went little further
than the introduction of illustrated texts as
adornments to the walls, and the remark,
made unfailingly twice each Sunday:
“I am going to church now, Doctor. If
you should be called out, kindly inform
Phyllis and leave any instructions with
her.” She would say this slowly, pointedly,
regarding him with fixed disapproving eyes.
Neither her remarks nor her facial expres-
sion ever varied.
Her desire to minister to his spiritual
wants went unnoticed by Leo, but he did
perceive that she was efficient in satisfying
his bodily demands. The house was kept
scrupulously clean, she cooked well enough,
she never forgot to deliver a message con-
cerning a patient, and she cared almost
maternally for Dino, who impudently en-
dured her.
The months passed. Each day differed
little from the preceding day. Sometimes
Leo awoke, like a man from sleep, from his
melancholia and noticed perhaps that it
would soon be spring, that there was a
sweet languor in the air, and that his body
responded to that strange, and sensuous ex-
pectation. He wondered then for a startled
moment what he was about, what he was
going to do with his life, but he swiftly
relapsed into apathy. The seasons unrolled.
A year went by. He wondei'ed how it had
gone. Was this life? Look back and fail
to find one thing to mark a passing day and
hold it in memory?
One day he met Mrs. Brelling in the
street. He knew little of the acid-tongued,
middle-aged woman, and what little he
knew he did not like. She stopped him.
He was civil, but not attentive.
“I beg your pardon. I do not under-
stand,” he said when he perceived that she
was questioning him.
“You know my niece, don’t you? She
called you once to attend to her poor hus-
band.”
“Your niece? Who would that be, Mrs.
Brelling?”
“Mrs. Ferrars. She called you in once
when her husband was having one of his
attacks.”
Such a clear, positive picture of Olwen
Ferrars rose before him then that he won-
dered how he could have forgotten her com-
pletely for more than a year. He saw her
wide-set, grey eyes looking through the
doorway to the distant hills. What had
she said? “Why do human beings persist
in the idea that they were created for hap-
piness, persist in it after the lesson of the
centuries?” Something like that. The wife
of a drunken farmer, working, and think-
ing as she worked. Digging below the sur-
face of her life, and turning up fundamental
truths.
“I remember, yes. I recall very well.”
“Yes. Well, her husband died, God rest
his soul!”
Someone said of Mrs. Brelling once:
“I never met a woman so intolerant
of the living and so compassionate towards
the dead. You’ve to pay a big price to
escape Mrs. Brelling’s tongue. But in some
cases it mightn’t be worth it.” Michael,
living, had provided her with years of the
enjoyment her soul craved. But Michael
had bought his escape from her, and now
he was Olwen’s “poor husband” and God
rest his soul.
“There was no hope for him, I saw that,”
Leo said briefly. He felt a slight sense
of shock. He was apprehensive of some
sort of interruption, a stirring of the stag-
nant pool in which he lay. He .told him-
self he preferred his untroubled submersion,
but a part of him was straining upward,
to feel as well as perceive that strange
rippling.
Mrs. Brelling said: “In a way it was a
meroy for him to be taken so soon. But,
of course, poor Olwen is destitute. Still,
her home is waiting for her. I expect her
to-morrow. No one in this town can say
I fail in my duty, though there’s plenty
would like to say it, I’ll be bound.”
That thin nose, dissecting, knife-like, the
sensitive shrinking mind of the woman,
those thin lips Snapping on the rare spirit,
the old vampire battening on the young,
courageous unfortunate! He thought the
old woman was joyful because she had days,
months, years to feed her gluttony. She
would wait and pounce and worry out a
secret in a twilight hour perhaps, when her
victim was unsuspicious, unafraid. She
would pick the woman bare.
Well, it was no concern of his. But he
felt he hated this creature.
(5)
One morning he called in to see Cart-
wright who said on his appearance, “Half
a minute. I want to get this away by the
mail.”
Leo walked across to the window and
looked down into Main-street. He was
slightly surprised to find that its complexion
had altered since the first day he saw it.
The alteration was slight, but perceptible
nevertheless, when one stopped like this
to observe. Main-street presented an
almost unbroken front-row now for three
hundred yards. But at this rate it would
take hundreds of years to block out the
valley which seeped into the town on every
side.
And he had a heart for cities. For
ancient, lichened stone, towered through
centuries; for pavements and strong, man-
made walls behind which men walked up-
right and secure in their dominance.
He wondered what the woman thought,
the woman Ferrars with the grey, seeing
eyes. What would she see in Main-street.
Had she ever desired a city, ready built?
Would she prefer the complex to the
simple? Rebecca at the well. Women who
whitened clothes on the stones of a flowing
stream. He lost Main-street watching Olwen
Ferrars do these things. And if you took
the woi’k of her hands away from her and
left her brain free, to what would it turn?
A young woman had been an assistant pro-
fessor of pathology in the University of
Bologna.
“Well, what’s on your mind?”
“Eh?” said Leo absently. “Have you
finished?”
“I’m never finished. I’ve got too many
jobs, Leo. I’m sick of humping this town.
Why don’t you cultivate a civic spirit and
go on the council? Oh, I’ve got some
good news for you. I had a letter from the
secretary of the Commercial Travellers’
Carnival committee. This hospital is going
to get a whack out of the proceeds.”
Leo was interested. For ten minutes they
discussed the matter. Cartwright was sur-
prised at the other’s eagerness.
“You’re getting more like yourself lately,”
he said casually.
Leo was taken back. But there had been
some sort of change, he realised. He had
been conscious of it himself. He wasn’t
feeling quite so despondent. Imprisoned
still, but someone had opened a window
—a barred window, but it let in the light
and one knew that there was a fair world
outside.
He rushed into further discussion of the
hospital.
“You know I have set my heart on the
building of a Maternity Cottage. We
should have it, John.”
Cartwright tapped his pen on the desk.
“But I think it would be better to get the
lighting plant. You need that. badly and
there’ll be enough for it. Now you’ve
decided Banton’s good enough for you,
you’ll have a lot of time for your hospital
improvements.”
Just before he left Leo said, carelessly.
“Do you know at all this Mrs. Ferrars?
The niece of the Brelling? I attended once
her husband. What kind of woman is she?”
“Olwen Ferrars? I’ve known her since
she was a kid. She was a great friend of
my wife’s. A good kid, Olwen, but she
made rather a mess of things.” He stopped
speaking and Leo, though he wanted to
hear more, was incapable of further ques-
tion. But he lingered in the doorway.
After a few seconds of silence John said:
“I knew her better than most people.
She was often at our house. She’d come
in any old hour of the day or night when
the Brelling as you call her, got too un-
bearable. Not that, she ever ran her down
to me. But she told Mona a bit. A
sadistic old devil.”
“I imagine nothing would hurt that girl
more,” Leo said suddenly.
Cartwright was surprised. “You know
her, do you?”
“No, I have only met once.” He was
confused. “One gets habit of quick analysis.
The little I saw that day convinced me
of this.”
“It hurt her all right. She’d got to the
point where she couldn’t stick it when Mick
Ferrars came along. I suppose anything
looked better to her than Ma Brelling.
Still none of us thought she’d choose
Ferrars. She Could have had several of the
chaps round here. Anyway, she’s back
again now.” He paused and glanced at Leo
speculatively: “How about coming down
to-night? Olwen’s coming to see Mona.”
Leo moved restlessly. “I’ll see if I can
manage,” he said, and left the office.
But he didn’t go to Cartwright’s that
night. After dinner Miss McCodd came to
take Dino to bed a.nd the child set up his
usual wail.
“Let him stay,” Leo said, suddenly
looking up from the paper which he had
been reading. “Later on I will put him in
his pyjamas—eh, Dino?”
“But you told me you’d be going out,
Doctor.”
“No. I do not go out.” He was glad
that the decision had been made in this
almost involuntary way.
His son’s presence and its demands saved
Leo more than once from desperation.
Often, when he lay spiritually prone, beaten
by the problems of his existence, which he
fought behind the locked door of his sur-
gery, he would hear Dino’s young voice
echoing through the house. That youthful
demand would drag him to his feet, and
the reason for endurance which he had
striven to find would be presented to him,
clear and compelling.
“Well,” he said, throwing down his paper,
“you should be in bed. She’s right.”
“Oh her!” The boy’s disgust was com-
plete. He was lying on his stomach putting
a red tail on a blue crayoned cat. Sud-
denly he sat up.
“Do you know what I think? I think
she hasn’t got any neck. I think she wears
those bones to hold her head up.”
Leo thought that it was a long time
since he had used the Italian tongue. He
was beginning to think in English. That
was new.
“You remember some Italian, don’t you,
Dino?” he said curiously.
The child started to gabble, but broke
off short, forgetful.
“English’s easier,” he said. Leo felt a
sudden sharp pain. But the boy was right.
It was easier for both of them.
“You forget quickly.”
“I remember the song about the butter-
fly,” He chanted it, finishing “L’ho- presa,
L’ho presa.” Suddenly his eyes grew wide
and frightened. He scrambled into his
father’s arms.
“Is mother really in Bologna? What is
Bologna? Why doesn’t she come home?’
Leo tried to explain the fact of death
to him, as gently as he was able to explain
so ungentle a thing. When he had finished
the little boy lying against his chest was
silent for so long a time he thought he
must be sleeping. Suddenly he said,
“Like what happens to a bird, or a mouse
in the trap, and poor Tinker, when he didn’t
move when I touched him with my foot?”


Then Dino had tired of the subject. “I
don’t want to be dead,” was all he said
and got down from his father’s knee. They
played riotously before the child would
consent to go to bed, and Leo, for some
reason, was unable to be stern with him.
Not until he was falling asleep did he re-
member the Cartwrights and the woman he
was to have met at their house; and for a
second time he saw in a dream Olwen’s
face with its clear, shining eyes and firm
mouth.
Chapter VIII.
(1)
Leo had a favorite walk which took him
through the thistle-encumbered desolation
of the scarred goldfields, and led round a.n
abrupt bend into a narrow roadway which,
for a mile or more, was lined thickly with
gums and fir-trees. Except in rare moments
when the sun lighted the landscape to
beauty he was unmoved by the Australian
scene. Olive and cypress and myrtle—
sometimes his nostalgia for these trees of
his youth and for towering, snow-covered
mountains girdled by silver streams, was
like a physical sickness. He liked this road
because the close-growing trees shortened
the vista, and one was not so conscious of
the interminable red miles stretching
through monotonous sameness, unbroken
by rivers or a change in forest growth.
One day, in taking his usual short cut
which skirted the shafts, he saw Olwen
Ferrars peering down one of the deepest
of them. There had been rain in the
morning and the wet, withered grass smelt
sweet, like hay.
He would have passed her without mak-
ing any sign of recognition; but she turned
and smiled, a shade uncertainly, and when
he came closer said, “Good afternoon,
Doctor.”
He could have raised his hat and gone
on. Their acquaintance demanded no more;
but he halted without quite knowing why.
“Good afternoon, Mrs. Ferrars.”
“I was wondering if you would remember
me,” she smiled.
“Yes, I remembered. I heard you’d come
to Banton. Your aunt informed me.”
While he hesitated uncertainly she began
to speak, a little nervous, a little flurried.
“I’ve been wandering round the dumps.
They fascinate me. I’ve been trying to
imagine this , hill as it was fifty years ago.
Have you ever dug into the history of the
town?”
“A little. It’s the history of most mining
towns. Luxuriant growth, without roots,
which quickly dies.”
“Ah, you’re harsh! The first bloom
withered. But there was a root. Banton
is a healthy little shoot, and it might pro-
duce a big and colorful bloom some day.
You can’t tell. This is a very rich district.”
“But how many years will it take to turn
from a wheat-siding into a city? God
knows! I will not be here to see and you
will not.”
“Well, I’m glad of that. I don’t like
finished old things. My people were the
pioneers of this town. I was brought up
on tales of conquest, you might say. Per-
haps that’s why I don’t mind crude raw-
ness—l suppose you’d call it. It’s in the
blood. Naturally you couldn’t be expected
to feel as I feel. I suppose Banton seems
like the edge of the world to you.”
“A bit like that.”
“Well, I’ve got a small-town mind. I
wouldn’t like to live where I couldn’t see
miles of empty country and wheat and
eucalyptus forests. I don’t think I could
breathe properly. I’m so used to this. I’d
like to see the rest of the world, of course.
But I’d always want to come back here.
You’ll think I’m very limited.” Her ques-
tioning glance held a certain shyness.
“Most of us are limited, and transplan-
tation is difficult, after a certain age.”
“You don’t like Banton, Doctor?” she
said curiously.
“Well, what have I said—it is difficult
to transplant after a certain age!”
He was rather stilted. She wondered if
he regarded her as impertinent. Should
she end the conversatipn ? But there were
so many things she wanted to say to him.
She wanted to thank him.
Leo noticed her indecision, and realised
that his tone had been brusque. But her
query had provoked an almost violent
desire to unloose his discontent. He had
not realised until that moment the complete
solitariness of his mind during the past
year. He was sick of himself. The desire
to hurl the congested bulk at her was
almost overwhelming.
“It must seem like the end of the world
to you,” she said again. “It’s difficult for
me to appreciate the smallness the—l sup-
pose meanness, of a town like this. But
cities aren’t real to me like this place is
where I’ve grown up.”
“You are fortunate that fate leaves you
in the place of your choice.”
“Fortunate?” she queried with unguarded
bitterness. “Yes, I could be happy enough
in Banton, as far as that goes. But I’m
not really in Banton. I’m hanging on the
edge. I’m nowhere. I haven’t any place
I can’t explain what I mean. Perhaps
you don’t know my circumstances, Doctor.”
“Yes, I know—a little—and am very
sorry for you. I was afraid at the time
that nothing could very well be done for
your husband.” He spoke the conventional
words of sympathy awkwardly.
She was spiritless, wan, and intolerably
tired. They talked jerkily, then:
“Doctor, you know how things were,”
she said. “I told you more than I’d told
anyone. I’ve often wondered why. But
I’d like you to know that telling you helped
me a lot just then. I was more nearly crazy
than I think I let you see. I’m glad to
have this chance of thanking you.”
“I understood.”
Her smile was brief, and, it seemed to
him, pathetic. “You couldn’t do anything
for poor Michael, but you did a lot for
me. I was just about ready to let go then.
It didn’t seem important to hang on any
longer. You said something about courage
—you probably don’t remember. But it’s
helped through all this. Anyhow, I’m glad
I saw you to thank you. And for coming
out and not”
“Please!” Leo jerked out an arm. She
looked at him gratefully. He noticed that
her grey eyes were swimming with tears.
He was disturbed, embarrassed, and felt a
pull at his heart which left him shaken,
and dragged him into speech.
“Try not to give way like this. This is
a hard time for you, poor girl. But it will
hurt less as time passes. It has been a big
strain. Do not feel badly. I told you
once this.... this confidence of yours is not
a rarity in my profession. I am glad for
you to tell if it helps. I told you I would
be please to help in any way.”
While he spoke, sharp, matter of fact,
she regained her control. She caught her
underlip in her teeth for an instant. From
a pocket in her dress she drew a handker-
chief.
“There! lam a fool. I cry for nothing
these days. I hope you’re right, and that
it’s only a state of health. I’ve felt such
a coward, giving up, the way I have.”
“Shall we walk a bit?” Leo said, repenting
at once of his suggestion. He longed to
flee.
He said, because he had to say some-
thing, “Tell me, he died in hospital? I did
not question your aunt.”
“No. At the house. I was there alone.
He died before I got the doctor. He raved
when I spoke of sending for anyone and I
didn’t know how sick he was. The shock
was dreadful.” She paused, then said:
“But it wasn’t losing him. I want to be
honest. Nobody will let me be. Everyone
is so kind, and they speak in whispers
almost and are so sorry for me. It makes
me feel such a hypocrite. Often I long to
get up and scream. I don’t mind. I’m
glad. Can’t you see I’m glad? But every-
body would be so hurt, and they’d hate
me and think I was so heartless. Per-
haps I am....but no, I’m not, Doctor.
Not really.” She halted and suddenly
faced him: “It isn’t fair to burden you
like this.”
Leo shrugged his shoulders impatiently.
“I would walk along this road in any
case,” he said brusquely. “If it does any
good to you to talk, you do not disturb
me. I am used to the talk of people.”
He did not see her sidelong glance. He
was looking at the ground eaten by his
striding feet, so swiftly striding that she
had to hurry to keep up with him. His
profile was grim. She was full of doubts;
then, for no reason, suddenly sure of her-
self and of his interest.
She thought: “He is a strange man. Like
no one I have ever known. I want to
tell him all the things I know about myself,
to ask him to tell me the things I don’t
know. I was so tired, so hopeless. Now
I could walk to the end of this road, and
tell him the things I thought I would never
even bother telling to myself. I knew it
would be like this, if I ever saw him
again.”
She did not mind him knowing the shame
of her position. Of course Aunt Margaret
had told him—as she had told everyone
else. There wasn’t a person in the town
ignorant of her dependence on Mrs. Brel-
ling, ignorant of the failure which her life
had been.
“My aunt has been very kind. No one
could be kinder. But 1.... I wish I were
able to do something to support myself.
There must be so many things women can
do. They’re doing them now. But it’s still
not considered the thing in Banton.”
Leo noticed that her firm little chin was
beautifully rounded and her throat where
it slid into the grey collar of her dress was
full and gold-tinted. He had a sudden
aching desire to protect her, to shield her
from the world of which she was so igno-
rant and of which she spoke with such a
youthful air of certain knowledge. Then
he remembered that she had lived a
woman’s life and one which could not have
been easy, and in a way triumphed over it.
She was well able to protect herself. But
the feeling of her weakness persisted.
He became increasingly conscious of her
slight body, whose outlines the fitted grey
dress revealed. Her body was that of a
young girl seemingly unmarked by the
chisel of marriage. Her breasts were firm
and small, her hips narrow, under the
moulded cloth which widened beneath the
thighs and swirled yards wide round her
ankles. He realised that it was her youth-
ful, untouched physical appearance, and
not her personality which impressed him
with the feeling of her helplessness. He
was disturbed by her, and hated himself
for this unusual susceptibility.
(To be continued next week.)
THE EXPERIENCES OF A LIFE
ASSURANCE CHAIRMAN.
(By George Crowley.)
Tlie City Mutual issued a Balance-sheet
the • other day.
There is nothing extraordinary about that.
The City Mutual has been issuing Balance-
sheets for fifty years and more. And while
they are more or less interesting matter to
the seventy thousand City Mutual consti-
tuents, and possibly another seventy thou-
sand prospective constituents, they are not
what one might call average every-day read-
ing for the general public.
But the City Mutual on this occasion had
something to say which, in my opinion, was
of interest to the Australian public, by and
large. Here is the paragraph in question :
FINANCIAL.
The Australian Life Offices cannot evade a measure
of responsibility for the present unfortunate position,
of affairs in the Commonwealth.
The City Mutual alone, both in its Annual Reports
and in the annual speeches from the Chair for the
past many years, constantly referred to the imminent
danger facing Australia if its exports values should
fall off. And we gave reasons—excessive borrowing
and extravagant expenditure, both State and Federal.
Now, the average politician is not well versed in
financial matters, but this must be said of him in
all fairness, that, on the whole, his interests are
those of Australia. And during all these years
scores of politicians in communications to the Society
have recalled the fact that no other life office ever
referred to the matter in any shape or form. Natur-
ally, they drew their own conclusions. These were
that the City Mutual Directors were needlessly
pessimistic.
Surely it was a matter of the greatest concern
to the hundreds of thousands of life assurance.
policy-holders in the Commonwealth. And it may be
asked in all earnestness, was it not the fair thing
to expect that the financial knowledge and experience
of the heads of Australian Life Assurance Institu-
tions should have been placed at the disposal of
the Nation?
The report was sent in the usual way to
the five daily newspapers, none of whom,
apparently, considered it of the slightest
public interest. At all events, none of the
five printed one line of it. Why, in the
name of all that is reasonable, I am unable
to say. At first I thought it might be libel-
lous, but the Legal Director, Mr. G. J.
Barry, put “the comether” on that aspect
of the case. Then I scented the suspicion
that it possibly savored of a little “advt.”
for the old City Mutual, and that was why,
no matter how interesting it would be to
the public at large, the papers refused to
publish it.
It is, in my humble opinion, a spurious
sort of public spirit that declines to pub-
lish an article of general interest because
possibly someone incidentally should re-
ceive a shade of publicity.
However, let that go for the present.
The “Herald” gladly snapped up a 10-
inch double-column special advertisement,
and it was not long before all the other
papers were on the run for a similar favor.
What I had to say to the public was this,
that were it not for the “parish-pump” atti-
tude adopted by so many of Australia’s
financial institutions during the past nine
or ten years, a great deal of this trouble
would probably never have happened.
It is all very well to deliver an oration
from the Chair on the number of red-headed
people assured with a Society, and what
the mean interest rate was for the previous
twelve months and telling in pages of deci-
mals how the expense rate was kept down.
Who cares about that?
The City Mutual was able to do all that,
and at the same time fulfil what it con-
sidered a public duty by telling Australia
that, unless the excessive borrowings in
which the Commonwealth and the States
were indulging was stopped, trouble was
bound to ensue.
We told them in a few brief words that
the business, so far as the Society was con-
cerned, was every year better and better,
each year a little better than the last. We
told them that our bonuses were the most
magnificent ever paid by any Life Office in
the world, and that was quite true, and
we also told them, in language that could
not be mistaken, that we were practising
what we preached in respect of financial
possibilities in the future. We even quoted
Scripture at times, and reminded them of
Joseph when Administrator of Egypt sav-
ing out of the seven years of plenty for the
seven lean years that were to follow.
And, by Jove, we had to pay for this
advice, too, and pay dearly, from 30/- an
inch downwards. The only paper in Aus-
tralia of any magnitude that occasionally
printed our remarks from the Chair and
garbled them in nine cases out of ten was
the old “Herald.” All the others had to
be paid for at so much per inch.
Now, we didn’t mind, and we don’t mind,
because we think it is only a fair thing that
we should pay for conveying to the public
by means of the Press the fact that the
City Mutual is the most liberal and pro-
gressive Life Office in the Empire, that its
funds are between six and seven millions
sterling, that it has seventy thousand
policy-holders with aggregate assurances of
twenty-five millions or so; that, in addi-
tion to paying record bonuses, we have car-
ried over each year sufficient to practically
double these bonuses, and so on.
Of course, that’s advertising stuff, and
it’s not good to muzzle the ox that treadeth
out the corn. Newspaper shareholders have
to be paid dividends, and newspaper pro-
prietors are not in the game for the good
of their health. But, all the same, I have,
year in and year out, during these many
years, growled quietly, and perhaps not too
quietly at all times, at the fact that the
City Mutual going out of its way, year by
year, to take an interest in matters of Aus-
tralian import, had to pay and pay dearly
for the privilege of giving advice to the
public.
During the past six or eight months I
have received hundreds of letters from all
over the Commonwealth—from Kalgoorlie
in the West to Thursday Island in the
North, asking me have I not something to
say in connection with the present posi-
tion of Australia? Why is it that, having
pointed out as I did through the years the
impending troubles I now am unwilling,
apparently, to say one word as to the
remedy.
I am not unwilling. I have written letter
alter letter which in due course have found
an honored place in the waste-paper basket.
The Associated Newspapers’ Big Chief
told me that he “banned” my views, and
that they must not appear in any of his
papers, as, apparently, they did not suit
someone or other interested motives. The
“Sydney Morning Herald,” to whom I had
addressed various communications, which
met the same fate, told me through their
courteous Editor, Mr. Fletcher, that “my
proposals appearing in their columns would
certainly make it appear to readers in Lon-
don that we were prepared to do something
against their financial interests, and that
just at present it was essential that we
should let it not only appear but be made
clear that we are ready to stand up to all
our engagements.” I don’t quite know what
it all means, but that is what was said.
Hooray!
Now, I may have a chance through The
Bulletin of telling some of your thousands
of readers briefly what my views are in con-
nection with the present trouble. And
these are the same views that I have held
for the past twelve months.
The first thing I would do is to drasti-
cally reduce the expenditure all round—a
25 per cent, reduction, and I would start
off with the Governor-General.
The second thing I would do is to grant
a moratorium to the basic wage, and not
block the tens of thousands of Australians
from selling their labor in the highest
market. They talk about reducing the
standard of living. What standard of living
has the unfortunate primary producer
or the tens of thousands of unemployed
to-day, I would ask?
Having done that, I certainly would ask
the oversea creditor to give me a little time.
I would say to him, as was said in one of
the parables in Scripture in reply to the
demand “Pay what thou owest,” “Have
patience with me, and I shall pay thee all.”
I would ask the oversea creditor to fund
our debt for four or five years until we -
get on our feet again, because as sure as
the sun will rise to-morrow morning, Aus-
tralia will be on her feet again very soon
if sane administration is allowed.
And my fourth strong recommendation is
that, as currency has been starved during
the past twelve months and it is seriously
contemplated that we go back to the days
of barter and trade in periwinkles and
oyster-shells, Australia prints twenty-five
million of notes as a remedy, partly for the
purpose of carrying to completion repro-
ductive works that are now only half
finished, and partly to carry the primary
producer over the parlous times which he
has experienced during the past year or so.
In all my life I have never heard more
“flapdoodle” talked than has been ladled
out day by day in almost every paper in
Australia of the evil effects, the terrible
results, the dire disasters of inflation. The
anti-German propaganda during the war
years was absolutely nothing to it.
I say, without hesitation, that an issue of
twenty-five million of notes is like giving
a glass of brandy to an exhausted patient,
and that sane administration in Australia
(and there are enough sane Australian
Statesmen in my opinion to see to it) will
not let the patient get hold of the whole
bottle to his destruction.
4-3-’3l.
GEO. CROWLEY.
“Lone-Pin er”: After Gallipoli we were
encamped at Tel-el-Kebir, Egypt. Hard by
was a long sand embankment, thrown up by
British troops before they hammered Arabi
Pasha, and our souvenir hunters loved to
delve therein for those big bullets and cart-
ridges which were in use 33 years previously.
On one of them we played a low-down joke.
Joining him in his excavations, we arranged
things so that he suddenly came upon a small
corked bottle at his feet. Inside was a
rolled sheet of paper. Excitedly opening the
bottle, he read the following, message: “These
black blankards can fight. Private Don
McDonald, 2nd Black Watch. 1882.” A
crude enough jest, but the finder believed
the note genuine, and was still treasuring
his “souvenir of 1882,” poor chap, when he
went west in France a year later.
“Merris”: The Digger makes only three
appearances in Tomlinson’s best-seller, “All
Our Yesterdays,” but in two of them he occu-
pies the centre of the stage. A vivid descrip-
tion of the Aid Post at Cut-throat Corner
on the outskirts of Bapaume reaches its
climax with this: “The muddy rags of an
Australian soldier at my feet were drawn
apart, showing a noble torso, and in the
breast a tiny red mark, around which gath-
ered pink froth. He was asleep with his
eyes open. There was still a tincture of
health on his cheeks.” The second features
Armistice Day in London : “The end! That
was the end" of it. A window was flung
open. Someone was cheering across the
street. Sirens began to hoot on the river.
The whistles of locomotives kept up their
whistling. There was shouting and singing
below. I looked out. The city was erupt-
ing. An Australian soldier sat on the roof
of a cab with a. nui;se on liis lap.” ;


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
For years Tiie Bulletin has urged that
proper straightout and place totes should
be substituted for the stupid 60-20-20
arrangement on Sydney racecourses, know-
ing, from its experience of both, that the
Westralian system is immeasurably better
fo'r those who follow racing for the fun of
the thing—it is not interested in big punters,
who are no good to the sport anyway. The
A.J.C. recently decided to make the change,
and, thanks to highly ingenious readjustments
of the Julius machines —black numbers are
used for straightout and red for place
wagers, the wo'rds “win” and “place” being
stamped on the tickets as required—it was
inaugurated at Randwick on Saturday, the
first day of the Easter meeting. A crowd
greater in proportion to the total attend-
ance—which, of course, suffered owing to
the times—gathered in front of the tote
buildings and watched the changing figures
with lively interest. And there were cries
and feminine gurgles when the first divs. for
10s. were posted—£2l 15s. straightout and
£3 7s. for a place on William Kelso’s Ivirna,
winner of the Hurdle Race; £3 4s. for 10s.
on Satrap, the second horse; aud £6 9s. 6d.
on Docto'r Grace, third. Kirna’s price with
the bookmakers (except those who wouldn’t
lay more than 10 to 1 about a brindle cow)
was 20 to 1; Satrap and Doctor Grace were
also at twenties. So the innovation was
successful from the start.
Again in the second race, the Autumn
Stakes, the tote paid better prices than
McShortodds offered, generally speaking.
Here and there 14 to 1 could be got about
The Dimmer, the ultimate winner, but 12
to 1 was more frequently heard; the tote
divs. on a lOs.-each-way bet were £7 2s. 6d.
(13| to 1) and £1 3s. Duncan rode a very
fine race on the Westralian-owmed anti
-trained Spearhead gelding, and every ounce
of his exceptional capacity for riding a finish
was needed, as the ancient Donald (20 to
Bert : " 1 FEEL LOST WITHOUT MV car"
Whats happened to vt ? ”
Bert'."some rotter stole it!’
Gert; * Rem-lV ? these AsNTiquS
COLLECTORS STOP AT NOTHtNG, ,
DO THEY ? * _____
1) came home very fast, and was only a
head away, according to the judge. John
Buchan, whom Darby Munrd had taken to
the front with half a mile to go, was three
lengths behind The Dimmer, who traversed
the 12 furlongs in 2min. 34isec. First Acre
was fourth; Chide gave a poor exhibition for
an odds-on favorite, and Glare, the secohd
favorite, was tailed off mo'st of the way,
beating only one horse (Royal Smile) to
the box.
Sixteen horses were saddled up for the
Doncaster, and, barring Catlimar, who looked
as if he would be more at home in a show
ring, they were a well-trained lot. Water-
line was favorite at 9 to 2, but more wagers
went on Sir Chrystopher (7 to 1), the hope
of Newcastle and the only grey in the field,
though in small amounts. Casque d’Or (8
to 1), Ticino and Pavilion (10 to 1) were
the others most inquired for; Temoin
drifted to twelves, though he was destined
to finish in front of his stable-companion,
Waterline. Also at 12 to 1 was Mollison,
who, despite his 9st. 71b., made a great effort
to lead all the way. Challenge after chal-
lenge he beat off until Sir Chrystopher
tackled him. Last, with Waterline and
Catlimar, at the half-mile, the grey came
with a great run which he sustained mar-
vellously, and though Mollison battled it
out gamely the Newcastle horse beat him
by three parts of a length, Casque d’Or being
the same distance away, third. Casque d’Or
ran a good race all through, and so did
First Arrow (fourth) and Ticino (fifth), but
Waterline was a sad disappointment. The
time was lmin. 37sec. —same sis last year.
Sir Chrystopher is a five-year-old gelding
bv Chrysolaus—Digalla. He is trained by
R. L. Cashman for H. R. Munro and was
ridden by Jimmy Munro, who has been very
successful since his return from Germany.
His sire was second (to Sydney Damsel)
in the Doncaster of 1920 with the same
weight, Bst. 51b, as the son carried to
victory. Sir Chrystopher divs. for 10s. were
£3 10s. 6d. and £1 25.; Mollison paid £2 ss.
and Casque d’Or £1 12s.
As anticipated, Ammon Ra proved too
good for the Australian two-year-olds in the
Sires’ Produce Stakes. He is a very sturdily-
built bay gelding by Limerick’s sire Limond
out of Ilyades; J. T. Jamieson trains him
for C. C. Sheath. Though apparently never
at his top, he romped home from a big field,
running the “seven” in lmin. 25isec. Johnnie
Jason (Treclare —Sweet Rosaleen) was les-
sening the gap at the finish, but it was only
on sufferance; the Victorian filly Gallan-
tic was third. The divs. were 18s. 6d.
(5.0.) and 155., Ammon Ra; £5 2s. 6d.,
Johnnie Jason; and £2 13s. 6d., Gallantic,
all for 10s.; bookmakers’ prices were evens,
20 to 1 and 16 to 1 respectively.
For a time Tregilla was at shorter odds
than Veilmond for the St. Leger, but at the
close of operations it was 11 to 8 Veil-
mond, 6 to 4 Tregilla. There were a few
pounds for Balloon King and Carry On at
eights. Balloon King, with Pike having a
firm hold of him, made the running from
Carry On, Veilmond and Tregilla, and led
into the straight. He tried to stick it o'ut,
but co'uld not do it; Veilmond, galloping
tractably for once, ran past him with ease,
and gave nothing else a chance. Tregilla
failed to come on, and when Eurytlimic’s
half-brother Salvador sneaked up on the
rails the A.J.C. Derby winner dropped back
last. Obviously he is far from being the
colt he was in the spring. Carry On beat
Balloon King by two or three lengths for
second place (Veilmond was about the same
distance ahead of her), aud obviously this
Magpie filly’s Australian Cup victory was
no fluke. The time was 3min. 2sec. —the
fastest for the race is 3min. lsec.
McCarten rode Ammon Ra and Veilmond,
and if he had got Killarney away briskly in
the first division of the Vaucluse Handicap
he might have made it a treble. The old
fellow, passing most of the field in the
straight, finished third; Pike’s mount, Treval-
lion (Redfern —Meriden), had a comfortable
win from another three-year-old in Comman-
dant, whose tote div. was £6 11s. Trevallion
is owned and trained by Po'lson, who, with his
patron, Matthews the bookmaker, threw in for
a good stake, the gelding firming to threes.
Pike had an armchair ride on Panola (4
to 1) in the second division; the Rossendale
mare, who was topweight, made the rest
look very cheap.
Chide, Waterline (suffering from a chill
and scratched for all engagements), Soul-
ton and Meadowdale came out of the Syd-
ney Cup, leaving 12 runners —the smallest
number since 1907, when there were 11.
Duncan lost the ride on The Dimmer —he
had been suspended for a month for inter-
ference in the Sires’ Produce Stakes —and
Bartle took his place. It made no difference,
except to the unfortunate Duncan, for The
Dimmer proved the good thing of the meet-
ing. Kept in a handy position for most of
the journey, he came away as soon as Bartle
moved on him and won by “a street.” A
good tussle for places ended in Aleman get-
ting second and Donald third; Troilus
(whose stable-companion, Dalston, had been
one of the previous week’s scratchings) was
fourth and Yeilmond, who looked a picture
but put no heart into his work, fifth. The
divs. for 10s. were £2 ss. 6d. and £1 4s. The
Dimmer (he closed at 3 to 1 with some
bookmakers), £1 17s. Aleman and £1 16s.
Donald.
The Dimmer is owned by Bill Morris, a
Kalgoorlie pastoralist, and has been trained
at Perth by Charlie Barden. It is strange
how many horses from Westralia have car-
ried off the Sydney Cup; in 23 years Dyed
Garments, Lily veil, lan /Or, Eurythmic,
Lilypond and now The Dimmer have done
it. During the same period only Trafalgar
has won for Victoria.
Fancies for the remaining days:—
All-aged Stakes: Mollison; next, Brazen-
face.
Coogee Handicap: Sunlover; next, Sun
Eagle.
Cumberland Stakes: Veilmond; next,
Donald.
City Handicap : Salvador; next, Sackbut.
Though Citamon ran last in the Doncaster
he looked pretty well, and may win a race
at the meeting, possibly the Rous Handicap
on Saturday. And Suntan ought to be
suited by the distance (seven furlongs) of
the Fernhill Handicap.
* * * *
Councillor (Valais —Pensee) recently
scored over hurdles at Caulfield. His half-
brother, Solo King, by Comedy King, regis-
tered a similar achievement at Epsom. Red
Sea, who captured the Seaford Trial Hurdle
at Williamstown on Saturday, is a half-
brother to Farlure, winner of the valuable
Eight Plours’ Welter at Moonee Valley on
March 23; so horses related to each other
are doing well on Melbourne courses. Nar
Ron was favorite for the Williamstown
jumping event, but performed badly. Solo
King, who riafrrowily vanquished him at
Epsom, put up a great fight with Red Sea,
who is in the Caulfield stable of P. K. Pad-
field, being owned by J. Clark, of Moira
station, Moama (N.S.W.). Padfield has
hopes of Grand National honors with this
son of Red Dennis.
Twelve months ago Joe Mulcahy visited
Sydney with Thurlstone, who showed symp-
toms of leg trouble and had to be withdrawn
from Randwick engagements. Thurlstone
was entitled to be regarded as the best of
his year, because he beat The Doctor’s
Orders in the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
and Ascot Vale Stakes, while The Doctor’s
Orders defeated Veilmond, Balloon King and
others in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes.
The manner in which Ibrani (Moabite —
Irolene) ran away from rivals in a
division of the Maiden Two-year-old Handi-
cap at Williamstown reveals that Mulcahy
has got hold of another smart youngster—
not so good as Thurlstone was, but one
that will do high credit to his trainer. In
the Second Division Scotch Note scraped
home by a neck from Greenmantle, with Nun-
gar only a head farther off. Nungar races
in the colors of “M. Gordon,” the lady who
owned Alawa.
Principal event at Williamstown was the
Easter Stakes, of one mile. Weights were
headed by Wise Force, who had to concede
41b. to old Highland, recommissioned after a
lengthy spell. With 13 runners, Merab
settled down into favoritism at 5 to 1, a
point shorter than Amanthus and two points
shorter than Wise Force. Green Wave heid
command at the end of a furlong, and shook
off Wise Force in the straight; but he could
not withstand challenges from Amant and
Miss Arrow. A thrilling finish ended in
favor of Amant (10 to 1) by half a head.
He hails from South Aus., and is the pro-
perty of Dr. H. li'. E. Russell.
It would be hard to find a more shapely
three-year-old than Oof Bird, who competed
in the Point Cook Trial. Consequent on his
victory at Aspendale Park four days before
he had to put up a 71b. penalty; yet punters
were prepared to accept 7 to 4 at the open-
ing of the betting. For some unexplainable
reason Oof Bird drifted to 6 to 1. Labe
support brought him down to 4 to 1 at bar-
rier rise. Oof Bird is by Magpie from Note,
a sister to Purser. His jockey tried to win
all the way on Saturday, but those tactics
did not suit the little Magpie gelding, who
finished out of a place. Glaive (by Spear-
head) profited by the fast pace set, and came
at the right end to win from Rizona and
Indian Love, outsiders. There wasn’t a
great deal of money for Glaive.
Jack Holt had a winning turn when Royal
Parade (half-brother to Crucis) appropriated
the Werribee Welter. The four-year-old son
of Wolaroi let his backers down at Aspen-
dale, and flat punters made bitter remarks
when Royal Parade smothered his seaside
rivals over the last two furlongs, registering
the easiest win of the afternoon. There must
have been many people who retained confi-
dence in Holt’s prad, as he shared favoritism
with Isocrates and Speareari.
* * * *
For Sandown Park: —
Brush Steeplechase: Home Made; next,
Mungarra.
Sandown Welter: Broken Doll; next,
Borrodale.
* * * *
“•Claremont” : Westralian punters have defi-
nitely taken the double-tote to their hearts,
and small wonder. Whereas Ike Mcßagg
pays only on first horses for “this and the
next” the Westralian tote-system gives even
a horse that is only placed a chance to
return a double dividend, provided the
actual winner has not been coupled with the
winner of the first leg. As an instance
Crysophris, which won the Goodwood Plate
at an outside price, was not coupled with
the winner of the next race nor with the
second horse. The third nag, Stunsail, was
joined with the Plate winner, however, and
the handsome divvy of £5B 3s. for ss. resulted.
With Ike, there would have been no paying
out on that pair. „
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Melbourne’s Bert Osborne (9.9) fought too
furiously for Freddy Welsh (9.7), of Wales,
at Leichhardt Stadium, and, although the
loser boxed more cleverly throughout the
12-round tussle, Osborne’s consistent attack
won a well-received division. The stipulated
10-rounder saw Bill Singleton (10.10) stop
Bob Coffey (10.8) in nine rounds. Coffey
was floored three times, but did not seem
seriously hurt. Next day, however, he col-
lapsed and was taken to Bulli hospital, where
he died the same night.
ifc H* * #
Australia’s former champion welter, Jack
Carroll, gave 9 $ pounds and a trouncing to
Tony Tuzzolini (11.4) at Sydney Stadium,
stopping the tall Italian-American in five
rounds. Tuzzolini entered the ring with
plaster on his right eyebrow, but Carroll paid
particular attention to the body and did
not dislodge the plaster until late in the
second round. A lusty left to the injured
eyebrow caused blo’od to flow copiously in
the fourth, and in the fifth Tuzzolini was
evidently convinced he had had enough. Any-
how he did not come up for the sixth.
Footbrawl
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
season opens on April 11 with the usual
rounds of practice matches. This year the
games will be played under the old rules,
following on the request of the British Inter-
national Board. The M.L. unions have also
been discussing the question, aud most of
them have decided to revert to the standard
laws. In any case, the N.Z.R.U. itself must
adopt them or cut the painter as far as
football overseas is concerned.
* * * *
“ ’Gabba”: Reports that N.S.W. Rugby
Union is studying the pros and cons of
sending a team to Queensland this year and
receiving a visit from the Bananalanders in
turn have roused the Queensland Union to
strong protest. Now that the Northerners
have the fine Brisbane Cricket Ground for
their own, free from the deadhead load of
National Association members which has
always cut into the profits of sporting bodies
using fhe Exhibition Ground, they are con-
fident of coming out well ahead on inter-
state visits. They are asking up a N.S.W.
side about the beginning of June, and desire
a return series of games in Sydney before
the Australian side for Maoriland is selected.
The Maroons have played such a part in
the international matches against M.L. and
Britain in the past two seasons that their
claims for recognition can hardly be ignored.
❖ * ♦ *
“Toulouse”: The decision to expel France
from the international Rugby series after this
season is one that will bear reconsideration.
The reason given is that the Frenchmen are
over the odds in the matter of rough play,
though that hardly seems an adequate reason
for such a drastic step as expulsion. The
trouble has come to a head as the result of
a complaint by the Irish Rugby Union of
the conduct of the Gauls in their game with
Ireland last year. It is a case of the pot aud
the kettle in this* case, for Irish forwards
have a reputation for just stopping short
of manslaughter when things are going
against them.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Last season proved a disas-
trous one to the N.S.W. football codes,
though the Australian game just managed to
balance its budget. The Rugby Union
finished £694 down in spite of the tour of
the British team. The percentage of the
gates demanded by the M.L. Union made a
profit impossible on this tour, though the
attendances were splendid. The Rugby
League had bad luck with its Maoriland side,
which proved far too weak to arouse public
interest, a fact which was accentuated by bad
weather conditions for the Sydney matches.
The loss for the season was £2423 10s. sd.
almost exactly the same as the debit for the
previous year.
“Gate”: Sport, like everything else, is
feeling the shortage of shekels. Secretary
Miller, of the N.S.W. Rugby League, the
other day offset the loss of leading
players to England o'r the country with
the fact that many brilliant country-
men out of work are coming to Syd-
ney clubs to pick up the weekly money
doled out to the professional players. He
added that the same urge was responsible
for inducing “many” of the Rugby Union
men in similar case to join the paid game.
It may be so, but except for one or two good
men, for whom room could not regularly
be found last season because of the plethora
of amateur talent offering, there have been
no prominent seceders from the ranks of the
lily whites, the prospective trip to M.L. this
season being, no doubt, a strong inducement
to stay put.
“H'otham” : The Australian Bowling Coun-
cil is evidently getting fed up with ring-ins
and dark horses of various descriptions, for
at a meeting in Melbourne the other day it
was resolved that no bowler Jbe allowed to
go from one club to another without a clear-
ance. Further, the gentleman _ who dyes
his whiskers or otherwise disguises himself
and visits another State to pick up some
easy money incognito has also been hobbled.
He must obtain a permit from his State asso-
ciation, or his cake is dough.
# * * *
“Murren”: Any chance of an Australian
ski team figuring at the coming Olympian
in America? Sweden, the acknowledged
champion ski-ing country of the world, is
sending a team of 30 specially selected per-
formers for this and the ice events. There
is an impression abroad that Australia
mostly consists of arid desert inhabited by
cannibals, kangaroos and bushrangers—no
political reference is intended here —and an
Australian party, primed with propaganda
dealing with the delights of Kosciusko,
Kiandra and Buffalo might put in some use-
ful publicity work, even if they don’t win
any events.
* * * *
Kaye Don was successful in his attempt on
the world’s motor-boat speed record at Buenos
Ayres, averaging 103.49 m.p.h. over the
measured mile runs, or 89.9 nautical miles.
The spin was on the Parana River some miles
outside Buenos Ayres and elaborate pre-
cautions were taken against accident
* * # *
Brisbane rowing, which has been getting
it in the neck from the co'untry crews for
a long time past, scored a good double at
Bundaberg, the State champion eights being
won by the G.P.S. Old Boys’ crew —the only
club of its kind in Australia —and the sculls
being retained by A. Buckley, of Brisbane.


TQ
03
m
*»•
««*
A pictorial
guide to
America
Fascinating this new booklet
illustrated with latest pictures of
San Francisco, New York, Yosemite,
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and
other famous places of the United
States. It tells how easy it is to
travel across America when you go
back home. Free to those planning
trips to England. Call or write for
your copy.
Write to Dept. MAO,
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and INFORMATION
BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Security for Savings
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD.
Established 1834
Receives from any Depositors of small or large sums at any of its
446 Branches and Receiving Offices
FIXED DEPOSITS
For 3,6, 12 or 24 months.
INTEREST MAY BE DRAWN HALF-YEARLY
AT RATES TO 5 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
No investment affords greater security than Deposit with
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited.
TOTAL ASSETS, 30th June, 1930, OVER £60,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. £4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. £4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
0<
m
wm*
* rr mui
Bed time
is Bender time
A Doctor says " Benger’s
Food is the finest thing to
go to bed on. Very soothing
and sleep inducing.”
x
Food
for Infants,
Invalids and the Aged
If you suffer from the unrest of weak
digestion, Benger’s Booklet will help
you. Post free from Benger’s Food, Ltd.,
350, George Street, Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Manchester, England.
A.259 m
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: N.S.W. cricket sustained a
severe loss when R. L. Jones last week
decided to resign from the administrative
side of the game, in which he has so distin-
guished himself. As a State and Australian
selector and as a member of the State coun-
cils, his idea from the outset has been the
encouragement of youth, and it was with his
advent that the process of heaving out the
ancients, which resulted in the appearance
of most of the young members of the last
Australian Eleven, began. Jones was respons-
ible for taking Bradman out of country
cricket and giving the Bowral boy the chance
he later utilised to the full, and if he had
done nothing else that would be a tribute
to his judgment
* * #
“Regency Buck”: Perusal of an account
of an inter-State cricket tourney between
teams of Queensland, Victorian and N.S.W.
women in Sydney the other day takes my
mind back. I have a reproduction of an old
print of the “Original Lady Cricketers” who
coruscated in England in the days when
George 111. was king. They played a match
with another feminine force for £IOO aside—
there is no record of who put up the money.
However, the ladies seem a genteel lot, garbed
in strictly feminine costume as opposed ro
the breeks in which the modern woman crick-
eter delights to disport. The “advertisement ’
attached to the print states that it was their
custom to be “elegantly and appropriately
attired,” and that .“every effort is made to
keep this organisation in every respect select
and refined.”
* * * 3
“W. G. Snort” : Cricket memories are pro-
verbially short, and the other day I was
pained to read some comment on big hitters
by a man who writes almost as well about
cricket, as a rule, as he used to play it.
An Australian himself, he could only quote
Bonnor and Cotter, with Jack Gregory as a
side-line, as examples of Australian hitting
batsmen. Bonnor was a slogger, pure and
simple. Tib Cotter was a swiper. Neither
of them was a hitter’s bootlace compared
with Jack Lyons or that hitting stylist
Percy McDonnell. As for Jack Gregory,
good as he was as a forcing batsman, he
could never hold a candle to that mighty
thumper Joe Darling.
* * •? O
“Lancaster Park” : The M.L. cricket side,
now started on their way to Britain, will
play a one-day game at Worcester Park
against the Maori Club, formed by Harold
Gilligan after his tour of Australia and M.L.
a couple of years ago, from the members of
the team then with him augmented by Maori-
land cricketers resident in England. Some
of the touring team have risen to eminence
since then—amateurs Allom and Turnbull,
for instance, played for England on the recent
South African tour. The game should be an
enjoyable one, for a match of that sort
breathes the very best spirit of cricket, with
all the modern sordidness of playing for the
gate at any cost cut out.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Glenelg” : Rufus Stewart, who sailed last
week to carry Australia’s banner in the
British open championship, is getting as
much golf as he can on the way, and will
begin with a match against A. F. Dye,
runner-up in the South Australian cham-
pionship in 1929, at Perth. Stewart expects
to have time for about four weeks’ practice
before the big match at Carnoustie, including
actual competition play.
* * * *
“Marino” : South Australia will hold the
State golf championships at Kooyonga this
year, opening on August 8 in order to give
competitors a chance to hop round to Sydney
for the Australian meeting, which kicks off
on August 24. Another contest of import-
ance will be that for the Seaton Cup
on May 2. The cup was donated with the
idea of encouraging amateurs and profes-
sionals to play together more, and the event
will be a handicap one in which the leading
pros, will be matched against members of the
Royal Adelaide and Kooyonga clubs, the
donors of the cup.
* * * *
“Shirley”: Maoriland’s golfing serangs
have decided to ask N.S.W. to postpone the
next clash for the Kirk-Windeyer Cup, set
down for July next, until the 1932 season.
The cup, which is open to all the Australian
States and M.L., is played for alternately in
Australia and the Shivery Isles. Last year
M.L. won it at Christchurch, and so is due
to defend the mug on this side the Tasman
in 1931. The idea over there is that times
are too hard for such a long and expensive
tour, and there can be little doubt that the
Welshmen will agree to the postponement.
* * * *
“The McHaggis” : The evil that one docs
lives after one. Some time ago I referred to
Carnoustie as being in Fifeshire. Hundreds
of indignant Scots pointed out that the course
was situated in what used to he called Forfar-
shire and in these degenerate days is known
as Angus. It was a slip of memory, and not
so far out, since the two counties —I am
waiting for a Fifeshireman to indignantly
claim that Fife is a “kingdom”—are only
separated by a bit of a creek called the Tay
—this ought to bring some more bites. Any-
way, somebody has sent me all the way
from the Land of Cakes a paragraph
from the “Angus Herald” quoting my par.
It does not contradict the comment that
Fifeshiremcn get more out of a whisky-
bottle and a thripenny-bit than an Aber-
donian even, but it is very sour on the sug-
gestion that the Angus course has been
“flitted” to the kingdom. The two love
one another just about as much as do N.S.W.
and Victoria, for example.
* Hs ❖ ❖
“Divot Digger”: The amazing growth of
golf in Britain among all classes of the com-
munity is exemplified in the recent annual
report of the British Ladies’ Golf Union. One
would have thought that with the men’s
clubs alone—admitting women as associate
members, as most of them do —saturation
point had been about reached. The report,
however, discloses that 62 new women’s
clubs were formed during the year reported
upon, bringing the IJ.K. total to 1193, with a
membership of 250,000. Some of these clubs
are so severely feminine that no tom-cats are
allowed on the rat-catching staff at the nine-
teenth. The Union lias resolved to send teams
to America, Canada, South Africa and
France in the near future. Australia is not
mentioned, so our old friend “Colonel
Damurize,” if he is sljill in existence, may
heave a sigh of relief.
“Stockton”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) has lost
one of the pillars of its golfing community.
This is Tommy Heard, a cheery Scot who
has been Waratali’s pro. for years and has
introduced a very considerable section of the
coaly city’s population to the obsession.
Highly popular with all and sundry, Tommy
is leaving his old roost to take up the job
of professional at the new Ivogarah club.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: The suggested institution
of a competition on the lines of the Monte
Carlo motor rally (B. 25/3/’3l) isa capital one.
Points are awarded for distance covered to
Monte, state of route traversed, disabilities,
such as weather and bandits encountered,
and time occupied. Consequently competi-
tors try to make their starting point as far
away and as inaccessible as possible.
Twenty-three English enthusiasts started
from John o’Groats, 31 continental drivers
selected Stavanger in Norway (2260 miles)
and others cho'se spots like Lwow, Riga and
Jassy. One feminine contestant, who would
have done for the heroine of an Ibsen drama,
had to take her tyres off, put chains on and
reverse over an icebound grade of 4 in 1.
* * Ht *
“Used Car”: The adoration which the
Arab is traditionally supposed to extend to
his steed is not unknown in the modern
motor world. Most of us are familiar with
the enthusiast who clings to a condemned
model which is a nuisance to his acquaint-
ances and the neighborhood generally. A cer-
tain Dr. Pearse, of Plymouth, is evidently one
of these. Recently a 4-J-li.p. Benz, which
has carried him since 1900, gave up the
ghost. He wanted to present the corpse to
the local museum, but his offer was received
with contumely. Even the old-iron trade
was not enthusiastic on the subject, so the
doctor resolved to bury liis old friend with
due ceremony, and did so.
❖ ❖ * ❖
“Methuselah”: In .sincere flattery of
the annual run of antique motor-cars from
London to Brighton, the proud owners of
prehistoric motor-cycles have established a
similar function, the second annual trip
coming off last month. The prize exhibit
was a Daimler machine built in 1885. The
frame was on the lines of the old boneshaker
bike, and there was a vertical single-cylinder
engine driving the rear wheel by a band and
pulley. The wheels were wooden and shod
with steel, while the saddle formed a casing
round the cylinder-head! This last idea
might be all right in frosty weather, but
would not appeal to many in the height
of an Australian summer.
* * * *
“Hotham” : A new Australian motor-paced
record for the pushbike was hoisted at Mel-
bourne Motordrome the other day, when
J. Roche, paced by R. Finlay, cut out the
five miles in 4min. 40 3-ssec. This is
1 3-ssec. better than Hubert Oppcrman’s
figures put up on the same track last year.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cash Amateur” : It is only recently that
a listening earth learned the real reasons
lying behind the lamented passing of Bill
Tilden to the ranks of the open professionals.
The dreadful thing seems to have been
forced on the poor fellow. He signed a
contract with the Goldwyn-Mayer film folk
for figuring in slow-motion films depicting
his methods of stroke play—there was no
question of playing the game for cash, under-
stand. At this stage the American Tennis
Association produced a book of the amateur
rules from its hip pocket and inquired what
Bill was going to do about it. The rules, as
devised by the association, declare such
actions as Bill’s film-making acts of profes-
sionalism. That being the case William
went the whole hog, and plunged head over
ears into the cash game.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Australia has not yet seen
a Dutch tennis champion in action, but this
may happen in the near future. Thea
Bouman, the woman champion of Holland,
who has recently married, has taken up
residence in the Dutch East Indies, and
already there is a suggestion that the lady be
invited to Australia for the next national
championships. A high-class player, the
Dutch girl has figured prominently at Wim-
bledon on more than one occasion, while she
has won many important fixtures on the
.Continent.
* * * *
“Maru”: Japanese tennis has suffered of
late by the practical retirement of half a
dozen of the leading veterans, four of them
members of the Davis Cup team. It seems
odd to read a Nipponese ranking list with
the names of such great players as Ilarada,
Sato and Ota omitted. Jiro Sato, of Waseda
University, a younger brother of the Davis
Cup player, heads the 1930 ranking list,
while several of the players who were classed
from 15th to 20th the year before have
advanced into the first half-dozen, a fact
which indicates that the young brigade in
Cherry Blossom Land is coming on nicely.
Miscellaneous
“Topping-lift”: Victorian dentist Bennell,
the yachting enthusiast who likes racing in
blue water, achieved his heart’s desire
when he went to Maoriland and found
two craft willing to' take him on
for the spin back to Sydney. One was
the yacht Teddy, touring the world with
Norwegian owner Erling Tainbs in charge;
the other was a Maoriland-owned yacht
hight Rangi. Oimara was the first to make
a Sydney landfall, taking 12 days over the
trip. Teddy turned up 49 hours later, but
since she received a time allowance of 96
hours, won with a fair bit to spare. Rangi,
with a 701 hours’ allowance, reached port
safely six days after Teddy, the uneventful
trip of these three .small craft somewhat
redeeming the Tasman’s reputation for dirty
weather.
* * * *
“Splash”: Australian swimming times are
gradually being pared down. The latest in-
stance was the performance of Noel Ryan, who
covered 220yds. in Sydney the other, day in
2min. 20 3-ssec., beating Charlton’s Aus-
tralian-bo'rn record by 2 l-ssec. Japanese
Takaishi has recorded the fastest time done
in Australia for the distance, 2min. 17sec.
Johnny Weissmuller’s world’s best is eight
seconds faster than that.
* * * *
“C. 8.” : A new world’s record for profes-
sional runners was put up at the St.
Patrick’s Day sports at Frankston (Vic.).
Professional J. D. Fitt covered 600 yards
in 72 seconds. The previous record was
held by an Australian, though it was run at
Johannesburg. That was in 1909, when Jack
Donaldson took onc-fiftli of a second more.
Two amateurs have bettered Fitt’s feat:
D. G. A. Lowe, the famous English flier
(lmin. 10 2-ssec.), and A. H'elfrich, of New
York (lmin. 11 3-ssec.). The latter spin
was indoors.
* * * *
“Glenelg” : The South Australian athletic
championships saw a fine double put up by
the Victorian all-rounder E. M. Davidson.
He trotted over the 220 in 22 2-ssec., and
cleared 6ft. Ofin. in the high jump. David-
son holds the Australian record for the high
hop with the fine figures of 6ft. 31in., made
at Sydney in 1928.
$ * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum has met
with his second defeat in England this
season, Joe Davis, the English champion, re-
ceiving 7000 start from the Australian, win-
ning the fortnight’s play by some 3000 points.
Davis, who, like the other English profes-
sionals, has improved out of sight since com-
ing in contact with Lindrum, made five four-
figure breaks in the match. Lindrum has now
entered on a “break” game with Newman.
Nothing Walter makes under 750 will count,
while Newman is given a 500 minimum.
Lindrum’s opening day yielded two scores
over 1000 and one of 800. He was then
3042, while poor Newman, not having topped
500. was still on the mark.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : With the season opening on
April 18, the Victorian Football Associa-
tion has fixed the amounts to be paid players.
The scale has been considerably lowered,
for the flat rate is to be fl per match,
whereas last season it was at least £2. Most
of the clubs are expected to add a ss. bonus
for winning matches to this and a lump
sum at the end of the season. North cote
and Oakleigh, with contracts to fulfil, will
not be subject to the flat rate, while Bruns-
wick, by agreement, will pay only 10s. a
match.


itlndeS
'Royal
Vintage 1920.
ToH.NC
Kin*
George V
CHAMPAGNE V
;i<
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagkK
Qttifcslleidstefc
Heims
“MERCURY" BRAND
TASMANIAN
Sparkling
CIDER
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 207 of 1931.
Between ALICE LILIAN EDGAR Petitioner
And OLIVER JOHN EDGAR Respondent.
To OLIVER JOHN EDGAR late of Hooper Street
Randwick.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALICE LILIAN
EDGAR has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds that you have without
just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her and
without any such cause or excuse left her continu-
ously so deserted during three years and upwards.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
sixth day of June One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-one and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Thirtieth day of March, 1931.
For the Registrar,
[L.s.] C. K. BODY,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
RICHARD DENIS MEAGHER, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO HILTON GEORGE WEIGAND formerly of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales Seaman.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of this Court
citing you to appear and answer the Petition of
Hilda Ada Weigand for dissolution of her marriage
with you on the ground of desertion TAKE NOTICE
that unless within thirty days from the publication
hereof you cause an appearance to be entered in the
said Court and unless you appear at the hearing
to answer the said Petition the Court will proceed
to hear the said charge proved and pronounce judg-
ment your absence notwithstanding.
DATED this second day of April One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-one.
(Sgd.) A. G. BRAMMALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
, A. B. & C. Crisp, Gill & Harvey, 144 Collins Street,
Hobart, Proctors for the Petitioner.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original,
Legal Notice.
■yo ARTHUR ALBERT CRAVEN (otherwise Arthur
Albert Forrest) formerly of Carlton Victoria
Painter and House-decorator.
TAKE NOTICE that MAY TERESA CRAVEN
(otherwise May Teresa Morrison) has instituted
proceedings against you for nullity of marriage on
the ground that when you went through the cere-
mony of marriage with her your lawful wife was
alive UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in Mel-
bourne on or before the first day of May 1931 the
case may proceed in your absence and you may he
ordered to pay costs.
MADDOCK, JAMIESON & LONIE,
136 and 138 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
At this year’s Show there was a great fall-
ing off in the whiskers display. After a hard
morning’s search, this Letter had bagged
only two, and they were by no means in the
champion class. The trouble about the men
from out back is they’re getting too like
their town brothers—it takes a clever girl
to distinguish between the tan gained back
o’ Bourke and that acquired by week-end
application of Bondi.
But the pyramids of apples were made up
of the same old friends, rosy and satiny
green, and smiling all the time. Granny
Smith should have known better, though,
than to keep company with Black Ben Davis.
King David, appropriately enough at the
foot of a pyramid, was ogling with a cidery
eye his neighbor, a plump and firm Cleo-
patra. The list of St. Anthony’s temptations
pales before the temptations the Hall of
Agriculture held for the woman who is diet-
ing. Succulent plenty slyly pulled at her
appetite on every side. Flams, cheese, honey,
potatoes, butter, wheat, grapes, pumpkins,
loquats, medlars, pineapples, figs surged out
in inviting waves from beneath facades and
between pillars of white and brown wool,
cunningly picked out with ornate stars or
such armorial devices as a pineapple above
an orange supported by a banana crescent.
On the first two days of the Show the
strong, stern male was much abroad in the
land. He was there either to judge or to
criticise the judgments. His State Ex., with
South Australia’s Governor, Hore-Ruthven,
went out to see the shorthorns get fair' play,
and president Sam Hordern cast an almost
paternal eye on the Friesians. This Letter
paid her respects to various of the country
aristocrats, among them the Golden Countess
(and isn’t that a lovely title for a talkie?),
who is no adventuress but a kindly brown
cow; the Duchess of Derrimut, a lady of the
fat-cattle family who stands four-square
to the world; and dear old Victoria, 19 years
of age and still coming to the bails. Then
she took a look at the pigs and, thinking of
hams and the end of Lent, thanked her stars
that slimming had not become fashionable
with her sisters of the pen.
The pavilions where the vacuum-cleaners,
electric washers and shining kitchenware
were displayed drew the women like
a magnet. Let him, if he wanted to, spend
all his time gazing at the cow and the horse.
Passionate cushions and cubistic designs in
curtain stuffs held groups of wives and
daughters fascinated, as did the model bed-
room displays, all polished wood and mirror
and electric lamps. One girl stood at gaze
before a kitchen chest-of-drawers, each
drawer marked “bread,” “cakes,” “biscuits”
and so on, while on the top were compart-
ments for salt, pepper and such-like con-
diments. She tried every drawer twice and
then walked slowly away. Yet another,
hanging on to a young husband’s arm, said,
pointing to a cushion, “And I like that very
one. Nice to have one that had been at the
Show we saw on our honeymoon.”
From Bangalow and Barraba, Junee and
Gilgandra, and a hundred other places in
between came the guests to last week’s vice-
regal garden party. They were the delegates
to the Red Cross Conference and each repre-
sented the honorable payment of her district
towards the debt of gratitude we owe to the
disabled soldier and his family. Sixteen
years or so ago many of these ladies started
their good work, and it has left the imprint
of kindliness in their speech and in their
eyes. Under the trees on the top lawn, a
group of soldiers from Graythwaite were
seated, and to them Sir Philip and Lady
Game went direct after they stepped from
the ballroom where the receiving had been
done. Miss Crowdy, in delf-blue and white
chiffons and immaculate gloves, looked after
their comfort, as did Commander Gifford,
who, indeed, was all things to all men in
the rather anaemic khaki of the tropical Air
Force uniform.
There were water-lilies in the basin of the
fountain, and tall tawny dahlias stood with
shy heads about the garden plots. The sky
was like molten lead, and the day was as
hot as a baker’s-oven. Lady Game’s frock
of woodland printed, chiffons was worn with
a leaf-green hat, and a word must go to
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax’s grey outfit, the long-
waisted coat covering a lace frock of the
same soft shade. Mrs. Garnet Malley’s
white felt hat drooped out to the right in a
long bunny ear. Miss Kate Egan, Gladys
Owen, Mrs. Harry Burrell and Joseph Cook’s
lady were other consistent Red Crossers who
watched with pride the manner in which the
snowy-capped V.A.’s served the tea. Mrs.
James Macarthur Onslow and O. Morrice
Williams, chairman of the Australian Red
Cross, were other notables pursued by the
camera-man.
Half the women at the Autumn Meeting
were as tweedy as though out for a day with
the guns on some Scottish moor, and it
doesn’t take a Sherlock Holmes to predict
a regular heather-mixture winter. Gloves
and collars were the de luxe items in the
dress-parade. The gloves, tucked, rucked,
deep-cuffed and fringed, represented a small
fortune. They enriched the plain flecked
tweed frock, or they were as aristocratic in
their way as the broadtail or pony-skin cuffs
from which they emerged. The popular costume
coat with the young was pinched in and
rather high at the waist, and, of course,
basqued or flared. This is a winner, irre-
spective of age, as long as the weight is not
too obtrusive. But, oh dear! those little
hung-on-the-back-of-the-head hats were the
day’s tragedy. They cried aloud to Heaven
for vengeance and their wearers were
stricken. Make-up stood out blobby and
white-washed, and noses were like monu-
ments. Even pretty Mrs. Warwick Fairfax
didn’t look her best in one, although between
its heavenly blue and her eyebrows a plenti-
ful expanse of waved gold hair intervened.
Irene Alcock, who was a smartly-tweeded
illustration of length without breadth, was
topped off with a sort of baby middy hat.
Collars arose in beauty from cloth coats and
astrachan; Persian lamb broadtail and occa-
sionally ermine.
The Governor-General’s lady wore skunk
collar and cuffs on a black pony-skin coat;
horizon blue, smartly tailored, was Lady
Game’s choice, and in her hat of the same
hue glittered the Air Force wings. Both
sets of vice-regals brought a large party,
and each little enclosure was as closely
packed as a sardine-tin. George Reid's
daughter, Mrs. Leonard Cleaver, sat with
the mighty in demure black edged with
white. Lady Isaacs’s daughter, Mrs. David
Cohen, added a brown and turquoise blue
outfit to a group which included S’Aus-
tralia’s Excellency Hore-Buthven, Chief Jus-
tice Gavan Duffy, ex-C.J. Adrian Knox,
Mrs. Tom Rolin, the Mayoral Jacksons and
the Fred Merewethers. Black and white
shoes and a necklet of sables were the high
lights of Elizabeth Knox’s outfit. Helen
and Philippa Stephen and Morna MacCor-
mick were among the official stand’s bright
young people. Mrs. Harry Dransfield’s
husband might be a Siberian trapper instead
of a banker, judging by her many-pelted
cape of fur. Tall Joan Marks was impres-
sive in a navy and white frock, and navy
and white were Mrs. John McKelvey’s
choice, with white bone buttons down the
front of her frock.
Governor-General Isaacs and his entour-
age, not having a Sydney home of their
own, have been putting up at State Govern-
ment House during Easter, which enables
The Girl in the Flat Opposite to point out
that Game and Isaacs are not a High Church
combination for Good Friday.
If you saw the hunting contests for lady
riders at the Show you saw plucky_ little
Emelie Roach
perched on top
of Lady
Radium come
home the win-
ner. That’s
nothing new
for the girl
from Narran-
dera. Emelie
has been busy
with Show rid-
ing since 1915,
and thinks
nothing of bag-
ging- a £5O or
£GO prize. She
has won
enough ribbons
to carpet a
house, and she
has to her
credit the
record Sydney
Show jump—
seven feet one inch —which she took atop of
Dungog, two Shows ago.
The Musical Association did well in wait-
ing till the end of Lent to spread its wel-
come luncheon to tenor Joseph Hislop. Joseph
has a calm poise equal to any emergency.
At Clara Butt’s final concert he held up
the house while he presented the Dame with
a laurel wreath as large as a cart wheel, the
while making a speech which practically
welcomed the songbird and Kennerley Rum-
ford to any part of the world he happened
to be in. T/he lunch will be set to-day at
Farmer’s.
Sydney spent a small fortune on Easter
eggs. On Wednesday and Thursday of
last week no counters did brisker business
in the big stores than those stocked with
these wares. There were tinsel-wrapped
chocolate eggs, egg-shaped bunnies’ heads with
enormous upstanding ears, yellow chickens,
nearly all minus their wooden tails, ducks
with impossible red bills and yellow feet.
There were parrots on a stand, and thefe
were bunny and sly-eyed pussy-cat eggcups,
topped by a glittering egg. Each bird had
a hollow place somewhere; he could either
be pulled asunder or taken off his perch when
one or several eggs, according to the taste
of the buyer, could be inserted.
Helen Cohen, only daughter of the S. S.
Cohens, of Woollahra, and grand-daugliter
of George Judah Cohen, became Mrs. Keith
P. Moss midway through last week.
The knot-tying was a home affair, Rabbi
Cohen blessing the vows in the family draw-
ing-room before a background of white chry-
santhemums and roses. The bride wore a
white satin frock over which fell a mist of
tulle. Green orchids and lilies of the valley
formed her bouquet. Cousin Mrs. John
Throsby (she was Gwen Marks) was Helen’s
only attendant, and looked very effective in
sapphire-blue lace set off with an armlet of
pale gold roses. Bride’s brother Paul best-
manned, and her mother, Mrs. S. S. Cohen,
in silver laces, and Mrs. George Judah
Cohen, in black satin, carrying a posy of
lavender and mignonette, did the honors of
the reception.
Mrs. A. C. Willis, the wife of our newly-
appointed
Agent-General,
looks out from
this Swiss
Studio photo-
graph. Like
her husband,
the good-look-
ing lady is
English, hav-
ing left her
native land to
come to Aus-
tralia only 20-
odd years ago.
Last Thurs-
day the two
left Sydney by
the Orama,
Mrs. Willis
will be greatly
missed in
Kogarah, where
she and her
husband have
made their home for some years.
Lesley Martin’s wedding drew a crowd of
fashionables to St. Stephen’s in Phillip-street
last week. Lesley wore her white satins
long and fitting, and managed with dignity
the train that bloomed out in a shimmery
flower. Brother Keith squired her to the
altar, and three ’maids, a souffle of pink
silk net and lacy straw hats, blew along in
her wake. ’Groom Ewan Murray Robson is
the eldest son of Leg. Cotmcillor Robson, of
Rose Bay, Alan Smith was his best man, and
Norman Reading and George Maiden provided
the rest of the male escort for bridesmaids
Kathleen Robson, Jean Anderson and
Decima Bennett. The party was at the Rose
Bay Golf Club, bride’s mother, Mrs. F. L.
Martin, presiding in a nocturne of black and
silver lace.
Rona Lamb, just 21 and within two
months of her wedding day, slipped over the
Divide last week. A flying girl, a lieutenant
in the Girl Guides, and an adept at other
pastimes girls of her years indulge in, she was
just back from a visit to her grandmother in
Yorkshire, where she had met and become
engaged to Alfred Squire, of Newcastle-on -
Tyne. Old pupils of St. Catherine’s C. of
E. School and the C. of E. Girls’ Grammar
in Fort-street will grieve for the passing of
their friend. Rona’s mother was, before her
marriage Larelle Cox, a descendant of Cap-
tain William Cox, who constructed the first
road across the Blue Mountains.
Arthur Severn, the portrait-painter, who
has died in London, was almost the last of
a famous mid-Victorian family. He was a
son of the artist who married Ruskin’s
adopted daughter Joan and held the dying
Keats in his arms. He had no children, but
several nephews, one of them being Sydney’s
veteran man-about-town Monty Severn. He
painted Mrs. Monty when she was last in
London.
The country man and girl must have felt
quite strange when they found their old
Mend the winter garden of the Australia
in its new Easter color design. The walls
are palest green picked out in orange. Gone
are the shadows. Light is everywhere.
Here and there on the walls silver gazelles
disport, and at the end of the wing to the
right, as you enter, a door that lets on to
a small balcony has been set. It certainly
makes a prettier background for the evening
clothes of women visitors than the former
sternly masculine setting.
The David Jones firm has roped in another
Charles Lloyd or “David” to' carry on the
tradition. lie is just about one week old, and
his address is his mother’s arms, Yarran-
abbe-road, Darling Point. Bishop Crotty
may come down from Bathurst to do the
christening. Incidentally, the young man
has a devoted quartet of bachelor uncles.
They are the Jones brothers of the big
Surry Hills millinery factory.
Rosemary Osborne, only daughter of the
Henry Osbornes, of Currandooley, Bungen-
dore (N.S.W.), is among the newly-engaged.
Her young man is Harold Gundry, an Eng-
lishman, of Melpash Cowie, Dorset.
Has anybody yet seen a beret with a cross-
word puzzle adorning it? A newly-returned
says she sat beside one on a London ’bus.
One of the writer’s friends has a summer
dress with the story of Paul Reyere’s ride
in picture and legend printed thereon. Once
again the old glazed chintzes and oilprints
are being used for interior decorations. The
Victorian era is a favorite for these designs,
and the Crystal Palace as it appeared in the
year of the Great Exhibition is very popular.
A chintz designed at the time of Queen
Victoria’s wedding, showing Albert the Good
plunging about on horseback under a plumed
hat, is said to be a great favorite. And here s
another item in the list of fad and fancy.
A Melbourne woman, now in Paris, has
a dinner-table seemingly of thick black glass.
When dessert is placed upon it she presses
a switch and lights the table from within,
so that through the glass gold fish can be
seen swimming and goggling an eye at the
diners.
Now that we are all wearing Australian-
made berets, it is interesting to learn that
they are woven from finer yarns than their
imported sisters. The Australian yarns from
which the little brain-cosies are made are of
scoured wool, and little, if any, grease is
soused from them in the bath of suds they
take before being dried off and brushed up.
The drying is done on an apparatus that
looks like so many electric plates, and the
soft, fluffy surface is obtained by the beret
being set amidst whirling cylinders whose
tentacles are thick with African thistles.
These brush the woolly surface till the
snuggly look is obtained.
When Joyce Oxley, of Hay, is married to
Kenneth Marsdcn Betts, of Molong, there will
be a union of two of Australia’s oldest
families. The lady is a descendant of the
Surveyor-General and explorer who made his
mark in the early days; the ’groom-to-be’s
second name is a reminder that he is a great-
great-grandson of the Rev. Samuel Marsden.
The wife of Liberal Catholic Bishop
Arundale, billed as Rukmini Arundale, was
the principal dancer at the Savoy the other
night, when a programme of Russian ballet
was presented to a crowded house. .The
little lady starred in “Indian Wedding,’
which Anna Pavlova introduced to Sydney.
She now goes off to Europe, purposing to
learn all she can of the methods of various
schools and impart the knowledge to fellow-
students on her return.
Watching the glittersome audience assem-
bled at the Prince Edward to see Ruth
Chatterton defend “The Right to Love,” this
Letter couldn’t help chuckling over _ a
Sydney man who has a job in Suva. Feeling
lonely oft his first Island night, he had slipped
into the nearest cinema. He nearly ran out
again when he saw a three-year-old gazette
featuring Toti Dal Monte’s wedding.
Brisbane sends a letter: —
Girl Guides and Boy Scouts mustered 3000
strong for the Tally at the Exhibition Oval, and
15,000 people gathered in the grandstand to see them.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin, the Chief Scout,
Commissioner Snow, Dorothy Hawthorn, the Premier
and Mrs. Moore were on the dais. The Wolf Cubs
staged a gladiators’ combat and a Roman chariot
race, and the Chief Scout crowned the victors with
laurel leaves. The Ipswich Girl Guides built a bridge
in a few minutes, the Valley and Hamilton companies
pitched tents, and two huts were fired, the girls
doing rescue work through the flames. Among other
stunts was the erection of a stout bridge by the
North Coast boys, over which the Chief Scout
passed and from which Lady Baden-Powell spoke,
reading a message from Princess Mary. The Chief
Scout said it was the best Boy Scout bridge he had
seen.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went- to the
Legacy Club concert in the City Hall. Lieut.
Savage, president of the club, and Mrs. . Savage,
General and Mrs. Wilson, Captain R. M. White and
Mrs. White, Fred Connah and Mrs. Connah, were
with the vice-regals. Amongst the artists were
Gwenda Paul, in a pretty buttercup gown, Harold
Kynge, Maurice Cran, W. Forrest-Pearson and Arthur
Boyle, with his string band.
Beryl Overell’s wedding took place in St. Andrew’s,
Creek-street. The bridegroom was Henry A. Mc-
Donald, of Malvern (Vic.) ; the bride is the elder
daughter of Mrs. A. L. Macnaughton and of the
late W. H. Overell. Given away by her step-
father, she was in ivory bridal silk with a Belgian
hand-made lace veil. Her bouquet, a cascade of
stephanotis and fern, fell to the hem of her gown.
Minty Barry, in rose pink, and Alison Overell, in
powder-blue, ’maided. The reception was in the
gold room at the Carlton cabaret; the Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.) sees the ’moon.
For Marjorie Alder, who marries George ‘Seaman
this month, Mrs. J. B. McLean had a bridge party
at O’Connell-terraee. Marjorie wore beige and cerise
floral crepe de Chine, with a black velour hat; Mrs.
McLean was in pearl grey and blue.
St. Ambrose’s, Kelvin Grove, saw the marriage
of Henry P. Blakeney, son of the late Lieut.-Col.
E. F. Blakeney and Mrs. Blakeney, London, to Myra
M. Davies, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. Clarke
Davies, formerly of Charters Towers. The bride,
who was given away by Denis O’Connor, was in
ivory moire, and Brussels-laee veil. Beryl Davies,
her twin sister, in rose pink, and Margaret O’Connor,
in jade green, ’maided; Douglas Taylor was best-
man. The Denis O’Connors’ home, Hemsdale, saw
the feasting, Mrs. O’Connor, the bride’s aunt, receiv-
ing. Katoomba will see the honeymoon.


X
/
w,
N
N
b
pte<s%e
CREATIONS INCLUDE:- SERVICE WEIGHTS SERVICE SHEERS
No. 400
A super stocking of -medium
service weight, pure silk through-
out, with Picot edge and lace clox.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
No. 401
Similar in all respects to No. 400
without lace clox.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
22«
7%
No. FFi
Full service weight pure si
th roug hou t.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
16
/
II
No. 800
Pure silk to welt, featuring
new reinforced toe-guard.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
I2'm
No. 600
An exquisite fine gauge service
sheer with Picot edge, and the
new Parisian heel. Pure silk.
Fully Fashioned . per pair
No. 500
\7t
A beautifully fine 45 gauge service
sheer stocking with taper or new
Parisian heel. Pure silk. Remark-
able wearing qualities.
Fully Fashioned per pair
FULL FASHIONED
HOSIERY
usy
♦
AN AUSTRALIAN CREATION


Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. 0. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: DEAREST ENEMY.
CRITERION:
THE FIRST MRS. FRASER.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE GONDOLIERS
(Commencing Saturday).
COMEDY THEATRE: ON THE SPOT,
With Frank Harvey and brilliant company.
Missing Friends.
BRAITHWAITE. —American relatives seek
information about William, Ralph,
Thomas Braithwaite and their sister, or
descendants, who came from Ulverston, Lan-
cashire, England, to Australia about 1876,
probably as farmers. Write MISS NELLIE
BRAITHWAITE. 68 Kirkland Street, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, U.S.A.
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN J
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFEi
2 HUNTER STREET.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
From C[?] 500[?]
Buckley on Num Li[?]ted
[?]
There was a bustle of Boy Scouts around
Spencer-street and a fluster of Girl Guides
when the Sydney express brought us Lord
and Lady Baden-Powell on Wednesday. The
Lud Mayor and Mrs. Luxton and many
Scout officers greeted the distinguished
visitors, while the Scouts waved felt
hats and gave a cheer that was augmented
by the Guides. The Chauvel lady,
Deputy State Commissioner of the lassies
in navy blue, headed a platoon of officers of
her section, who were introduced to the
Chief Guide. The Chief Scout strolled along
the lines with a cheery smile for all his
young followers before boarding a motor-
car for Stonington.
The civic welcome at the Town Hall in
the afternoon attracted a big crowd, com-
posed mostly of the older Boy Scouts and
Girl Guides and their parents and relatives.
The Mayor’s speech was excellent, and
a fluent and lengthy reply was made by Lord
Baden-Powell. Lady Baden-Powell added
her word of thanks for the welcome,
and established herself in everybody’s good
graces. In the official circle were Mrs.
Luxton, who wore a beige ensemble with a
brown hat, General Chauvel and his lady,
Mrs. Norman Brookes, who wore the uniform
of the Girl Guides, Mrs. Frank Faulkner,
Mrs. E. Littlejohn and several other women
prominent in Guide circles.
At its two days’ show at St. Ivilda Town
Hall, the Royal Horticultural Society put
up a record in the way of beauty and variety
of exhibits, particularly in the gladioli and
dahlia sections. Some specially fine blooms
came from Ballarat, Camperdown and Mace-
don. G. Swensen, of the golden city, exhibited
48 distinct species of gladioli, winning a
prize on that account as well as the cham-
pionship—this for a perfect specimen
known as Emelie Aubrun, whose deep apri-
cot raiment was splashed with grey and
rose-red. The Malvern council sent from its
civic gardens a mass of decorative foliage
plants as setting for a bank of vividly hued
tuber-begonias.
At a meeting in the Town Hall to gain
members for the All For Australia League,
Mys. I. H. Moss, president of the N.C.W.,
was chairwoman, a picturesque figure in ruby-
colored cr6pe de Chine, her white hair curling
from beneath a matching velvet toque. Dr.
Georgina Sweet brought scientific and econo-
mic knowledge to bear on a lengthy address.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Archbishop Head’s
wife, Mrs. Rapke, of the Women Citizens’
Movement, and Mrs. H. Fossett were also
speakers.
Nancy Hewlett, in black satin, hostessed a
bridge party for golfers at Miss Gregory’s
rooms at Stanhope, Toorak, as a welcome-
home to Mona MacLeod. Miss MacLeod
with three other lovers of golf set out about
a year ago for Britain on a holiday, return-
by way of the U.S.A. The guest of honor,
who came to the party m bottle-green, was
accompanied by her fellow-traveller Gladys
Hay, who trailed black lace ; the other two,
the Misses Barclay, of the Apple Isle, are
continuing their travels in Maoriland.
The fate of the Southern Cloud was still
a mystery at the beginning of the week. Cir-
cumstantial accounts of it having been seen
and heard by several witnesses at once came
from Wangaratta, a Melbourne suburb,
Portarlington and various parts of Gipps-
land. So clear seemed the evidence of
its appearance over Melbourne that Kings-
ford Smith abandoned his gigantic stridings
about the mountains and searched the bay
from an altitude sufficient to show most of
the bottom clearly. Then came an equally
impressive report that the ’plane had been
seen on the Bogong high plains 60 minutes
after its appearance over Malvern. Smith at
once tore off in that direction, arguing that
if it had turned round on the 60-mile gale it
could have reached the locality in the time
mentioned. Finally two people saw it
emerge from a cloud near Geelong and sail
down towards the water, while a ship's
officer said he heard it pass over his vessel.
Altogether, the impression grew of at least
a dozen Fokkers having been loose on the
fateful Saturday. While it is difficult to
doubt all the reports, there is no question
that hallucination and auto-suggestion come
into most of them. As an example, however
belatedly a report came from any locality it
was immediately followed by a rush of wit-
nesses ready to confirm it.
Joan and Betty Rayner, of the Sydney
Theatre of Youth, with five other players,
arrived in Melbourne by caravan and motor-
car, having performed at some of the princi-
pal towns in passing. They will make a stage
appearance here, and then propose to tour
Maoriland, with, perhaps, a visit to the U.S.A.
to follow. The caravan in which the four
ladies of the co. are installed was halted
in the garden of Mr. and Mrs. Ramsay
Moon, of Kew, who have since packed
up their belongings and departed on an over-
seas jaunt. The Rayner girls will occupy
their flat during their stay in this city. Mrs.
Moon gave a tea-party as a welcome to the
players.
Artist Margaret McLean now holds daily
afternoon-tea gatherings of the intelligentsia
at her quaint little studio in Tunnock’s
Chambers. Home-made shortbread is the
specialty of the menu. Joan and Betty
Rayner, of the T.0.Y., were given the fra-
ternal clasp at a mingling of painters there
during the week, among the guests being
Bernard Hall. Louis McCubbin, Compton
Coutts, A. Colquhoun, Violet Teague, Dora
Wilson and Mrs. Russell Jackson. Margaret
McLean and Jessie Traill shared the duties of
hostess.
There was a fine roll-up at Y.W.C.A.
headquarters when the billy was boiled to
honor Mrs. Herbert Brookes, who gave a
talk about the association’s work in the
U.S.A. The lady’s gown, of black and white
figured silk allied to a mushroom-brown straw
hat, was given a background of dark draperies
and curtains, diversified by groupings of mari-
golds and Easter daisies. Jean Stevenson
spoke upon the problem of the unemployed
girl. Mary Mack sang.
As president of the Dental Hospital knight
Stephen Morell and his lady paid tribute at
a tea-gathering to the work of the women’s
auxiliary. Under the leadership of their
president, Mrs. W. J. Cutfield, those enthu-
siasts raised £4OO, which was expended in
modern electrical equipment and furnishing
for the surgery.
Mrs. A. P. Shier, known on the concert
stage as Rita Hope, gave a tea party at her
home at East Camberwell in honor of Joan
and Betty Rayner. The hostess, who was in
beige marocain, was joined by Katie Liddell in
a number of compositions arranged for two
pianos. Joan Rayner explained the aims
of the Theatre of Youth. Among the guests
were the Mawson lady and her mother, Mrs.
Delprat, and Eileen O’Keefe.
At her opening recital Dame Clara Butt,
who faced a crowded house at the Audi-
torium, looked like the Queen of Sheba
or Cleopatra poured into silver lame
that rippled to the fern-bordered foot-
lights. Her turbaned head-dress, bfe-tasseled
with blue beads, was clasped with an emerald
and other gems, and she wore very lengthy
glittering earrings. Her corsage presented
a blaze of diamonds, and diamond pendants
dangled at varying elevations. There was
also a twinkle of bracelets. Her throne—she
sits to sing most of her numbers —was draped
with emerald-green silk.
The weather was bleak on Thursday, with
a wind straight off the snowy highlands, and
showers of hail and rain at intervals, and the
parade of 800 naval ratings who marched up
Collins-street to salute at Parliament House
was witnessed by comparatively few.
David Masson and his lady put on the
kettle at the Alexandra Club for Douglas
Mawson and Captain N. Mackenzie, back
from Antarctic climes, the Mawson lady and
some others being among the special guests.
Mrs. W. E. Bassett helped her parents with
the entertaining.
St. John’s kirk, Essendon, was furbished
up with cream gladioli and Easter daisies
for the knot-tying of Beatrice, daughter of
the W. H. Taylors, of’ Overnewton, Syden-
ham, and John Bloomfield, of Gisborne. The
bride wore white tulle and Limerick lace,
and her maid, Shirley Finlay, sported tulle
of deep primrose tint. After-rejoicings took
place at Overnewton.
The white horse which was ridden by
Lance Fairfax in “The Desert Song” is in
disgrace. In private life a cab-horse, its
experience in the spotlight at His Majesty's
seems to have turned its head. On Friday
it bolted and scattered passers-by right and
left, hurting a child somewhat badly in its
mad flight.
This is C. A. Hoadley, M.Sc., 8.M.E.,
Chief Commissioner of the Boy Scouts of
Victoria, who
has been pre-
paring for the
coming of
Lord Baden-
Powell. All
the time Mr.
Hoadley can
spare from his
duties as prin-
cipal of the
Footscray
Technical
School is de-
voted to the
tr a i ning of
scout - masters
and otherwise
furthering the
interests of the
movement.
During a visit
to Eng land
some years
ago he went
through a scoutmaster’s training course at
Gilwell Park. He was a member of Douglas
Mawson’s first expedition to the Antarctic.
Within seven miles of Melbourne there
stands a bluestone stable with slits in its
four walls for gun-barrels in the event of
attack by blacks. The adjoining residence
was one time the home of Mrs. Donaldson,
just dead at South Yarra, aged 87. She was
the widow of John Donaldson, one of
a family from Fifeshire, who arrived here
in 1840, and settled at Kangai-oo Grounds,
purchasing 640 acres from the N. S. Wales
Government. Owing to the repeated atten-
tion of bushrangers the Donaldsons in 1858
moved closer to Melbourne, purchasing 100
acres in what is now the populous suburb
of Ivanhoe. They built Wellington House
—a mansion in its day—and became the
leading family. Mrs. Donaldson, who was a
native of Aberdeen, arrived here in 1861 and
married in 1868.
The question “What is Australia’s national
flower?” was answered at the Garden Week
show. A plebiscite was taken, and the
wattle won with 15,000 votes, the gum
blossom being runner-up with« 10,000 and the
waratah third.
Just back from a visit to England is T. M.
Cherry, Prof, of Mathematics at the Uni., and
he has brought home a bride. In honor
of the home-coming of their son and daugh-
ter-in-law, U)r. and Mrs. Thomas Cherry bid
many guests to the Lyceum Club. The host-
ess wore flowered chiffon in black and mauve,
and Margaret Cherry chose pink georgette;
the bride appeared in her wedding gown of
old lace and parchment-colored satin. Violet
Lester sang. Mrs. T. M. Cherry was a Dis-
trict Commissioner of Girl Guides in Cam-
bridgeshire, and her husband on occasion dons
the uniform of a Scout Commissioner.
Howey House, the new eleven-storey build-
ing which fronts Collins-street and sports
a tower above an arcade of shops, was
officially opened one evening last week. A
feature of the proceedings was a speech,
delivered per gramophone record, by the
owner, Captain J. E. P. H'owey, who resides
in London. The record was broadcast, and
the voice vibrations turned on the electric
current, which illumined the whole building.
The Lud Mayor and others made speeches.
The land on which the building stands was
bought a century ago by Henry Howey for
£lOO.
Hattie Knight, the bright Melbourne
presswoman who married politician Leckie,
has been raking over those literary and
social essays which she did so well, and
Robertson and Mullens will publish a volume
of them under the title of “Candor and
Cant.” The bookbinder is at work on them
now.
Mr. and Mrs. H'arry Brittain, of North-
cote, have gone to sojourn in Nauru for two
years, Mr. Brittain having been appointed
Director of Education there. Mr. Britain
was on the teaching staff of the West Mel-
bourne Technical School.
Commodore Kroef, R.0.M., chief navigator
of the Royal Dutch Packet Line, is retiring
from a life on the ocean wave in July, his
services being retained in an administrative
capacity on land. The Zoo authorities will
regret the commodore’s retirement, for his
ship the Nieuw Zeeland on most trips from
Java carried a regular menagerie of creatures
for them. The letters attached to his name
represent a distinction conferred on him by
Queen Wilhelmina last year. Mrs. Kroef
is an Australian.
Dorothy Blewett, whose dad, John Blewett,
has been attached to the Vic. Railways for
nearly 50 years, is rejoicing over the accept-
ance by a London publisher of her first novel,
“Vision.” The authoress is an ex-student
of the Methodist Ladies’ College, and edited
the school magazine during her last year
there. She writes under the name of Anne
Praize.
The man who arranged all the details of
Lord and Lady Baden-Powell’s Australian
tour was F.
R. G. Sanders,
who is Fed-
eral as well as
State secre-
tary to the
Boy Scouts.
On the staff of
the S.A. Sav-
in g s Bank
when the war
broke out, he
joined the
Third Light
Horse, went to
Gallipoli, was
wounded and
sent back, and
later w e n t
again to the
war zone in
charge of cer-
tain phases of
Y.M.C.A. work
in France and
Belgium. Mr. Sanders returned to his job in
S.A. in 1919, and then went to England for
two years, after which he settled down in
Australia to his present post. Lafayette
made the picture.
That versatile lady Mrs. Alfred Pedder, of
New Town (Tas.), has published an attrac-
tively-got-up booklet containing a story for
children entitled “A Wall.” The authoress is
also a painter, and has exhibited at the shows
of the Tas. Art Society. Mrs. Pedder's
mother, the late Mrs. John Elliott, was a
member of the family of which Lord Sher-
borne. is head. “A Wall” is dedicated to the
Pedders’ son Louis.
Westralian Enid Bennett (Mrs. Fred
Niblo) is to star in a talkie for children
shortly.
Mrs. Bess Golding, the miniature painter,
sailed away in the Barrabool to renew her
acquaintance with the art treasures of the
Old World.
Contralto Lorna Worland has had to post-
pone her projected study under Marchesi in
Europe on account of the exchange position.
Mrs. F. W. Eggleston, Mrs. Harry Emmerton
and some other people interested themselves
in the singer, and raised sufficient money to
start her well on her way in ordinary circum-
stances, but present circumstances are not
ordinary.
Mrs. J. S. Fraser, an active member of the
Country Women’s Association, the Victoria
League and the Bush Nursing Association,
is about to visit England.
Mr. and Mrs. Ashton Johnson, of London,
are paying another of their periodical jaunts
to Australia and are at Menzies’ Hotel. Mrs.
Johnson is a Melbournite, a sister of actor
Bob Greig, now mostly resident in the
U.S.A.
Mrs. Claude Couchman, president of the
Women’s National League, has decided to
seek a seat in the Senate. For over 14 years
she has taken an active part in politics
through the A.W.N.L. She is a graduate of
Perth Uni., where she studied economics.
A few pars, from Westralia: —
Tea was brewed and cards shuffled several times
recently in honor of Freda Treadgold, who is pre-
paring to slip on the shackles of matrimony. Alice
Walsh’s party was an evening affair, the password
being a grocery package for the bride’s pantry. A
golden-haired doll, dressed in frills of white crinkle
paper, tulle veil and nosegay, curled her Cupid’s
bow in the middle of the supper-table. Pink doll
favors matched the decorative scheme of carnations
and roses. The hostess wore figurings upon the
black background of her chiffon frock, and the most
important guest ornamented her kilted tiers of pink
romaine with an ecru lace bertha.
Norma Rapacholi, of Kondinin, and Harry, son
of the J. F. Vincent couple, of Mt. Lawley, were
made one in St. George’s Cathedral. The bride’s
Neapolitan-blue romaine cut with bolero effect was
worn with velour millinery. Dorothy lek attended
in sand-dune marocain made with a scarf collar
and a hat of Robin Hood green.
The Historical Society is setting up commemorative
tablets upon the State’s old landmarks. “The
Cloisters” in St. George’s-terrace has received for
its share a brass-plate at the doorway of what
is known as the Clergy College. The Wittenoom
knight did the unveiling. The venerable structure,
whose brick walls harbor clusters of moss and whose
cellars run to filled-up secret passages, is the contem-
porary of the Town Hall and the Barracks. It was
built by Bishop Hale as Westralia’s first secondary
school for boys. Opened in 1858 as Bishop’s Col-
lege, its name was changed later to the Church of
England Collegiate School. Bishop Hale bequeathed
the property to the governors of C. of E. schools,
any revenue derived to be devoted to Church educa-
tion.
The Music-teachers’ Association celebrated its
coming-of-age birthday with an at-home in the
Karrakatta Club. In the absence of president Charles
Huddle, A. J. Leckie and his wife did the honors.
Mrs. Leckie wore black georgettes with beige relief
introduced into the corsage; Mrs. Huddle also favored
black for her lace gown, as did Miss J. L. Young
for her chiffon satin. David Lyle, Val Robertson,
Gladys Cunliffe, Mildred Grigg, Mrs. Mcßostie and
the quartettes Mace and Wendowie provided enter-
tainment.
Temple Court has been booked for the Polo Ball
of April 9. The younger set have marked April
29 in their diaries-for the first St. George’s College
Ball.
Adelaide writes a line or two :
The Adelaide Racing Club’s Victoria Park meeting
serves as a preliminary to Oakbank, and many visitors
from the Eastern States were present. Mr. J. Hall
and his daughters entertained at afternoon tea. Miss
Hall looked cool in a soft shade of almond-green
with hat to match; her sister chose a brown and
fawn patterned crfipe de Chine with a brown hat
of cire straw. The Mayor and Mayoress were present,
Mrs. Glover wearing a navy and white printed creps
de Chine and a navy baku straw hat.
Knight William Sowden and his lady have returned
from a gay three weeks in Sydney, where they were
overwhelmed with hospitality. The Overseas League
gave an at-home in their honor.
The Mount Osmond Country Club broke out into
hospitality afresh when the members ran a cabaret
show, and entertained about 200 guests. Dancing
was interspersed with cabaret items supplied by
Mrs. Ray Kenihan, Messrs. J. H. Morish and Don
Downey; Mr. Downey, with his pretty partner Evelyn
Dunn, won the fox-trot competition. Music was
provided by an orchestra, and Weber, Shorthose and
Rice’s pupils gave acrobatic demonstrations.
Dr. Gertrude Halley, who is retiring from the
medical branch of the Education Department, was
given a farewell tea at the Lyceum Club by her
staff. Dr. W. Christie was the one man among the
many lady doctors and feminine members of the
medical branch.
Mrs. Allan Simpson and Mrs. Tenison Woods are
organising a series of bridge parties to be held at
the Lyceum Club during the winter. They will be
monthly events.
There was great excitement at Birkalla when the
Mount Crawford polo team wiped out the Adelaides
by 10 to 1, Mr. Frank Downer was host at afternoon
tea. Now that the Glenelg trains have ceased to
run, the attendance at Birkalla has suffered.
At the Maison de Danse, Glenelg, on May 1 five
mothers are giving a dance to launch their debu-
tante daughters. They are the Newland lady, Mes-
dames Seymour Hawker, Malcolm Tweedie, Lisle
Johnson and Clive Milne.
Will Ashton left for Europe by the Balranald
from Adelaide, having first made a short stay in
his old home. His father, James Ashton, original
trainer of nearly all the local painters, is still going
strong, and has just celebrated a golden wedding.
Hobart’s P.S.: —
Sylvia, daughter of the H. Henwoods, Kingston,
defied superstition when she walked down the aisle
of St. Clement’s Church with J. H. Bruce in a
tailored suit of black cloth and a little close-fitting
black hat. Touches of sulphur-yellow relieved any
sombreness in vest and pipings. A quiet dinner
at Hadley’s, family only, topped off the proceed-
ings, and the pair went off for their honeymoon on
the East Coast in a car, the bridegroom’s gift
to the bride. Mrs. Bruce has been a valued member
of the Hobart Repertory Society.
The first dance of the 1931 season came off very
successfully in the University library. The Uni.
colors, rose, primrose and blue, were in evidence
in the decorations, and Marcus Trappe’s orchestra
made attractive music. Dressing was smart and
pretty, and youth, as always, put the bloom on the
show.
Mrs. Tom Lyons and daughter Sybil are off to
Colombo this month to meet Mrs. John Clarke, who
is coming from Rangoon with her infant to spend
some time in her old home in the Speck.
Two grand-daughters of Mrs. Henry Dobson, Miss
May Dobson and Miss Ruth Taylor (of Hunter’s Hill,
Sydney), are off to the mission fields of Tanganyika.
Miss Dobson, whose activities will be on the medical
side of the mission, has been farewelled by various
friends and societies in the last few weeks.
There is no longer any excuse for failing to survey
the views from our grand old mountain, for there
are now well-made tracks on all the slopes facing
the town. Mayor Soundy officially declared the last
one open to the public at a cheery little ceremony
at the Springs. The work has provided badly-
needed employment for several hundreds of men.
Mrs. A. T. Gibson, after 25 years’ absence from
the Speck, has been on a short visit to her brother,
Dr. Geo. Clemons, of Launceston. She returns to
England by way of Colombo, where she has a
married daughter. Her son is a young lieut.-
commander in the R.N.
The E. J. Whitesides had a throng of guests to
help keep their golden wedding at their home, Birra-
lee, Sandy Bay. Bouquets of golden blooms and
numerous little gifts in gold were showered upon
the pair along with the good wishes.


1
1
\
'IIIW
n
SEE!I
Ik
I
R
■
1
THE
lIY I A L I N G-
MODE
SMART, immensely smart, these new coats with
fitted lines . . . you see them at the races, at
charity bazaars, at the most interesting luncheon
rendez-vous, indeed wherever well-dressed women
foregather.
And here and there, a failure. Here and there a
charming coat, a clever suit, quite spoiled . . .
unnoticed till the wearer rises, stands chatting to
her friends, walks, all unconsciously, away. The back-
line, a veritable beauty line, is lost; the effect of
a well-cut coat is ruined by foundation carelessness.
The wearer s waist is not sufficiently defined —or far too
much; her hips and back are flat —or far too generously
curved. What should be a clear and lovely outline is but
a mere indefinite shape.
Are you of average type ? Are you not now
wearing a Berlei ? Then, put on your closest-fitting
frock. At your usual draper fit on Berlei 6171 ...
slip your frock on over it . . . how much lovelier
your line, how infinitely smarter ! Wear a Berlei
foundation always and ensure backline beauty for
yourself.
EVERY BERLEI FOUNDATION
IS POSITIVELY GUARANTEED
B2:48:3I
BACK LINE BEAUTY
What type of figure are you? Are you, for instance, straight and slim?
Are you normally and very charmingly curved? Or are your curves too
much for you—and for your frocks? It’s so important to know
precisely what is your Figure-Type. You may be an Average type, a
Big-Abdomen type, a Sway back. You may be that type which is Short
Below Waist or a Big-Hip type. Decide this question now. Write to-day
to Berlei, Limited, Berlei House, Regent Street, Sydney, for Free
Measurement Card. Or, take accurate hip, waist and bust measurements
for yourself and send these. Berlei, Limited, will quickly let you know
your precise Figure-Type.


,v hair
here's
■unu) - *
&
Grey Ilair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally it she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Hr. Allen’s Mexican Wainut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
(.MEXICAN)
WcUfud Stain.
*HZ MOVES THE GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN k SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (/ 6’), 6d. being postage.
KJ?
Quick
Relief f
\
For rashes, eczema
and all forms of
itching, burning,
disfiguring skin irri-
tations. Bathe with
Cutlcura Soap
and hot water, dry,
and anoint with Cutlcura
Ointment. Relief comes at
once and healing soon follows.
Cutlcura Preparations are
essential to every household.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 26. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticura
OINTMENT
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all geenral banking buisness.
M
The Firewalkers —a Fijian tribe —who
can walk barefoot over hot stones.
x
The fastest, shortest,
coolest route to England.
Only 4} Days
from Sydney.. .A wonder spot
on the MATSON route to ENGLAND
BY the swift Matson route, colorful Suva,
largest Fijian city, is only A\ days from
Sydney. Ideal for a holiday—golf, tennis, bowling
—all the sports you love. And your holiday has an
"air of adventure.”
There is an all-inclusive tour to Fiji and return
from £35. First-class accommodation throughout.
Fare includes all transportation expenses and liv-
ing expenses at the Grand Pacific Hotel, Suva.
Or, if you are going to England, the Matson route
offers you the coolest, most delightful trip. Just
29 days from Sydney via America’s wonderland .
Visit great modern cities —see countless miracles
of nature.
A comfortable Matson Liner leaves Sydney every
third Saturday at 11 a.m. Excellent cuisine—
perfect service—all deck sports, plenty of deck
space. Go 'home* now by this shortest, coolest
route .
MAIL THIS COUPON TO THE ADDRESS BELOW.
Send me free information on a trip to Suva Q Pago
Pago O Honolulu □ United States Q England □
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge St., Sydney Phone B 7981-3
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
AS WE SAID BEFORE-
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
It was a lovely moonlight night in a little
mining township, and romantic visions flitted
through the mind of the large, elderly, red-
headed widow who acted as slavey in the
local pub. She was sitting at the door of
the policeman’s tent; his arm around her,
his rakish-looking mouth pouring soft
nothings into her capacious ears. She
was listening intently. Then the police-
man uttered a fearful yell and said
that his last hour had come—in short, that
he had been bitten on the arm by a snake,
LAMBED DOWN.
BARMAID (loq.) : “You can’t have any more now. There’s only .
a few shillings left of your cheque,' and-you’ll want a
few drinks to get sober on.” [7/7/’88.]
and after making this statement he doubled
up and groaned. He was only a small officer,
and the redheaded woman picked him
up in her arms and fled to the hotel. By
the time she arrived there he had assumed
a pale, ethereal, comatose aspect, but he
was rapped on the back till he revived, and
then a bottle of brandy was poured into
him. Next, an energetic citizen treated the
wound with carbolic acid, but a kick from
the writhing functionary sent the fluid into
his face and eyes, and he rolled in anguish
on the floor. The oldest inhabitant, who
said he knew exactly what to do, tore the
policeman’s shirt into rags and the habitual
drunkard of the neighborhood was stopped
just in time—a second more and he would
have split the constable down the back with
a razor, in order to ease his breathing, he
said. Just then a red spider stepped out
of the remains of the shirt and started
across the floor, and when it had been
squashed flat the meeting adjourned, and the
policeman went home by the back way.
A universal provider in London now lends
out a £lOOO Bank of England note to be
exhibited at weddings as the present of the
bride’s loving parent, and makes a big per-
centage on it. He also lends out a bogus
man-servant, who looks like the old family
retainer, but whose real business is to watch
the property. Possibly the note is a bogus
one after all, though, and the detective who
watches it is merely put on to give it a
look of probability.
That night in the last short session of
the N.S.W, Parliament when the Speaker’s
casting vote saved the Government from
defeat, cards were being vainly sent in whole-
sale to members by those who desired to
view the proceedings. At last a messenger
approached Minister O’Connor, card in hand,
but was rebuffed with a “Don’t bother me;
sure the House is full. I can’t look at it.”
“But this,” persisted the attendant, "is from
the Marquis of Huntley.” “What?” shouted
the I’.M.G., “the Marquis of Huntley? Why
didn’t you tell me before? Where is he?”
Then the Jaynial Dan elbowed his way
through the corridor to the crowded corner
where the mysterious Marquis kept a group
agog. “Delighted to have the distinguished
honor of,” he said—then broke off shortly to
remark in an aggrieved tone, “Huntley, you
divil, you’re always at your thricks.” “The
Marquis of Huntley” is better known as
Tom Huntley, a Sydney butcher.
Not long since a Queensland contractor
undertook the erection of a lighthouse on
one of the uttermost parts of the earth, and
in default of better assistance he hired 30
big natives to pull and haul. But one
nigger is so little different from another,
and a big nigger is so like a small one, that
at the end of the first week he had to pay
the whole tribe; he couldn’t distinguish the
men who had worked for him from those
who hadn’t, and they all hollered and col-
lected the money with a club. But when
next day the crowd rolled up to start work
the contractor uncovered a deep-laid scheme
by which the remnant of a dying race was
floored in the hour of its decay. He painted
his gang yellow and blue, and when next pay-
day arrived no unpainted nigger received a
cent. But the worst of the circumstance
is that the coloring-matter is indelible, and
the foundation has been laid of a new blue-
and-yellow nation which may one day de-
generate into orange and drab and pale
green, until the banana regions are overrun
with elephant’s-breath
tribes and red-legged
races with purple feet
and ears of old-gold
tint, and the affrighted
North is staggered by
visions of chrome-
colored warriors wal-
loping gins whose hues
defy the resources of
spec trum analysis.
And, to add to the
horrors of the scene,
there will be feuds
between the painted
and the unpainted
tribes, and the taste-
fully-blended nigger
who has been reared by
means of a judicious
assortment of parents
will look down with
contempt on the garish
aboriginal who arose
from a crude alliance
between two persons
of outrageous and
glaring tints; and
elopements and clan-
destine marriages will
take place through the
unbridled desire of
young and thoughtless
heathens to be joined
together when their
older and more experi-
enced parents recog-
nise that their hues,
can never match each
other to the extent
which is essential to
domestic happiness;
and the sweet blossoms
of youthful affection
will be blighted by
the interference of
badly- colored or
smudged relatives who
look with disfavor on
the entrance into the
family of a young and
nicely-upholstered
. j t bride. The green
father will rise in anger against the
blua son and shed his blood on the hearth
ol his decorated ancestors; the striped
brother , and the black-and-tan sister will be
at 'Variance, and the tears of the crushed-
strawberry mother will fall over the graves
of her children, and she will go out on dark
nights to . mourn over their lonely resting-
place when their brutal father, whose incom-
patibility of tint weighs heavily on her
burdened heart, is carousing on baked
possum and dog in company with his loud
and incongruouslydiued companions. The
future looms big with disaster for a nation
which has been painted in haste, and the
end of these troubles cannot yet be foreseen.
A true yarn from Kimberley. A digger
getting down into a gully sighted a huge
Irishman sitting on a boulder with a stick
raised above his head. Two more arrivals
also saw the same apparition, and after a
whole hour of this they strolled up to take
stock, but were angrily warned off, the man
with the club announcing that, be jabers,
he’d make soup of every mother’s son of
them. He afterwards cooled down, however,
and explained that he had been sitting half
a day waiting for a rat to come out of its
hole and that he wasn’t going to let any-
body jump his claim. He got his rat.
A NIGHT THOUGHT.
The world around is sleeping,
The stars are bright o’erlicad,
lhe shades of myalls weeping
Upon the sward are spread;
Among the gloomy pinetops
The fitful breezes blow,
And their murmurs seem the music
Of a song of long ago :
Soft, passionate and wailing
Is the tender old refrain—
With a yearning unavailing—
“ Will he no’ come hack again?”
The campfire sparks are flying
Up from the pine log’s glow,
The wandering wind is sighing
That ballad sweet and low;
The drooping branches gleaming
In the firelight sway and stir;
And the bushman’s brain is dreaming
Of the song she sang, and her.
And the murmurs of the forest
Ring home to heart and brain,
As in the pine is chorused,
“Will he no’ come back again?”
THE BREAKER.
LACHESIS.
Over a slow-dying fire,
Dreaming old dreams, I am sitting;
The flames leap up and expire;
A woman sits opposite knitting.
I’ve taken a Fate to wife;
She knits, with a half-smile mocking,
Me, and my dreams, and my life,
All into a worsted stocking.
[1891.]
Y. J. DALEY.


PROBAK
THE BETTER
BLADE
FITS EVERY RAZOR
OF THIS TYPE
OLD OR NEW
You use a razor of this fype? Then PROBAK Blades will
fit it. PROBAK —the better blades: the blades that canno!
vary because they are made from an endless ribbon of steel,
ground, honed and finished in one continuous operation.
The blades that glide across your face as though the stubble
wasn't there; and silently, smoothly make sure that it ISN'T
there ... . Get a packet of PROBAK Blades to-day. Prove
to yourself that each is as amazingly sharp as the first you
try! Sold everywhere at fixed prices.
PROBAK-THE
Made and guaranteed by the
Managing Agents for Australia :
BLADES THAT CANNOT VARY
“>P Sa,e,y Razor Co " Ltd " 197-207, City Road, London, Eng.
H PSON & COMPANY, LTD, 181, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
jlimiiiniHiuiijiiiuiminijnnmnmTnnnmiiJ
wzz: 'wmmm
*
K
&
m
Shl
ntmiimiitutunuumm
c
T
IE
Three Elevens.
S. S. SEVERN'S
VIGNETTE OF THE BUSH AND ITS WOMEN.
MOTHER EVE’S legacy was come to
little Mrs. Smith for the eleventh
time. Every year it came, and in a
dumb sort of way she accepted it. The
baby grew into Dave or Joe or Jim, ten of
them, nine alive; and she was that way
again.
One liked little Mrs. Smith: her eyes were
bright and soft, like the wee scrub beasties;
and she had their timid ways and quietness.
About her there seemed something of the
Bush itself.
There was plenty to do all day in their
little “wattle-and-dab” humpy ; and she was
better at clearing scrub and burning off than
the boys themselves. She seldom went call-
ing or into the township, and it was five
years since she had been to a dance or the
pictures. After the kids were in bed she
liked to sit out in the moonlight in the old
rocking-chair and look about and think.
There she sat rocking to and fro in the
squeaking old chair that Dan made when
they first came out here, and looking at the
shimmer of moonlight frosting each gum-
leaf and fence-post to silver. And once a
tiny night owl flew right into her lap.
She had plenty to think about; lots.
Funny how she had come to marry Dan. All
the men about were going off to the war
except him, so she put a white feather in
an envelope and posted it to him. That did
if. Next time he came out he was all dressed
up in khaki. The night before the boys
went away there was a dance and a send-
off at the School of Arts, and the parson
and the Mayor spoke good about them —
said they were heroes, and that. And after
the speeching was over, she and Dan went
for a walk in. the moonlight, and next day
they got married, and she went back home
to live until he came back from the war.
Armistice, the first of the eleven, was born
on that day, and she had called him that.
Lots of the boys about got killed; but
Dan had enough sense to keep his head
down. Pie got gassed instead, and came back
that terrible green sort of color like mulga.
The band from over at Cumalong met them
and played “Australia Will Be There,” and
the Mayor and the bank manager shook
hands with Dan.
The Repat. put them on a block in the
Soldiers’ Settlement. Said it was great
growing land, and they could run anything
as a side-line. They got returned soldiers’
luck, and everything went dog on them. They
were lucky to have the creek near ; they
didn’t have to cart water like some. And
there were plenty of rabbits in the scrub
and pumpkins down by the water; aiid the
old trees in Comino’s deserted holding grew
buckets of quinces to make jam with.
After ten years of bad luck things were
beginning to take a turn. They won twenty
pounds in the Golden Casket, and Dan paid
the deposit on a horse-team with it, and
was away now carting wool for old
Scliwager, the German. Parson got Armio
a job on Dalkeith, tarboy and picker-up,
pound a week and keep. He reckoned he
was going to send her some of it to buy a
new hat. Funny kid, Armio; seemed like
as if he had to break everything or kill birds
and that. Parson reckoned it was because
lie was born during the war. Said all war
babies were like that. Sal, the only girl,
was queer. Said eating rabbit and pumpkin
made her feel as if they was blacks. Young
Jim was the one she looked to: he’d got
sense.
Dan was all right. Drank a bit now and
then when the gas took him. But he didn’t
knock her about like some, and he wouldn’t
clear out and leave her like Bill Jones did
to Milly because she got eight kids. The
bush was hard on a woman. There was her
little sister Nell, who went away with a
rabbit-trapper, and poisoned herself with
match-heads the day she was fourteen, and
died alone in the camp. And Moll, who got
bit by the death-adder that was springing
at her baby.
Dan wanted her to move in nearer to the
township. Some day, perhaps. She was
bush-bred, and loved it. She liked to hear
the maggies chortling at daylight, and the
jackies sitting all quiet in a row on the
back fence till one of them gave a little
chuckle, and that started it: it made you
feel laughy too. And the moonlight all
silver. After this one, she might. The kids
ought to get schooling.
She would have to go into town next week
to see about the bush nurse—see if she would
come out for a few days and look after her.
When the others were born Mrs. Jones
across the creek came over; but old Mr.
Mahmud, the storekeeper, sold them up last
month, and they had left. She didn’t kind
of like the bush nurse. She was a “pommy”
and hadn’t taken to the bush people nor them
to her. Short-spoken she was, and toffish:
all for the bank manager’s wife and playing
tennis. The Bush Brother, now, he was an-
other kind. They all liked him.
Late this evening Mr. Mahmud had driven
out in his motor-car and roared at her that
he’d got to be paid five pounds on account
before the end of the month or they’d get
no more credit. This one wasn’t due till
about Christmas; then there’d be the bonus.
She’d told him that; she had to.
Eleven. But if this one was a little girl,
like little Min, who died of the ’flu when
they all got it, she wouldn’t mind so much.
Little Min had rosy cheeks and shiny hair
that she loved to curl round her fingers, and
it stopped all the day in goldy ringlets. She
loved little Min. She couldn’t help crying
when she thought about her: little Min, and
Gee, her young brother, who was killed at
the war. They both broke her up cruel.
Slie harnessed old Blossom and drove into
the township. The bush nurse would be
otherwise engaged; why hadn’t Mrs. Smith
approached her sooner? Mrs. Osbourne —
the rich cocky's wife, she was—would want
her at that time. “Quaite unfortunate!”
she said in that loud way she had of talk-
ing. like a schoolteacher.
Somehow Mrs. Smith felt better as she
turned the horse’s head for Mother B.’s. She
had never had Mother B. to look after her
before, but folk said she wasn’t so bad. That
bush nurse fair scared her; and their bit
of a humpy!
Mother 8., who had been nurse to the
whole community before the trained nurse
came, didn’t believe in doctors. She had
reasons. Wasn’t there poor Mrs. Purcell
that she was nursing and was doing fine till
she took the shivers, and her fool of a
husband called in that boy doctor from the
Flats, who put her in hospital, and she died
the next day? And little Mrs. Mooney whose
milk turned to white leg and she died in
hospital, too? Mother B. said the doctors
worked in with the police. But she got even
with them. She knew a few spells and ill-
wishes that her mother the Cornish woman
taught her. And her mother was the last
woman in England to be burnt as a witch.
Yes. Mother B. would see Mrs. Smith
through it, though she had no right, to expect
a nurse to do it for a pound. She would
stay the three days.... and don’t send for
her too soon.
The evening of the ninth of November
Davie, the lame one, who hurt his back
when lie fell out of the quince-tree three
years ago, was a bit feverish, so Mrs. Smith
was rocking him to sleep, when a brown
snake dropped out of the skillion ceiling
all-but on to them. Young Jim caught up
the broom handle and broke its back, but
it gave her a bit of a turn, and coming on
morning she took bad.
Jim harnessed up old Blossom and went
to fetch Mother B. “That all?” asked Jim,
as she handed him up a cardboard box.
“Yes, and be careful; there’s things in
it,” she said meaningly.
Everything in the place was lovely quiet.
Neighbors had taken the children, all of
them except Sal and Jim. Sal was in to
town to tell Mr. Mahmud that four pounds
was sure, and Jim was after a rabbit to
make broth. Mother B. had stowed every-
thing under the mattress away from the
flies, as this was only Friday—Monday was
washing day—and was resting in the rock-
ing-chair. They both had a bit of a sleep.
When Mrs. Smith waked she felt cold-like;
a cup of nice hot tea would make her feel
fine. She waited for Mother B. to wake,
waited a long time; then she screwed up
her courage and called her. Would she
mind to make her a cup of tea, please?—
she felt a bit shivery. The old woman
shuffled out to the kitchen and back again
to her chair. “Fire’s out!” she snapped.
She wasn’t going to light it up. What did
they expect for a pound? Little Mrs. Smith
shivered. She would have liked a cup of
tea.
Later, she waked from a lovely dream of
little Min smiling down, at her from out of
the moon. She was glad that this one was
a little girl: she would call her Min. Funny
that she had two of them on Armistice Day.
The eleventh day, eleventh month, eleventh
time. Three elevens made thirty-three, her
age.
“Where’s the baby?” she whispered to
Mother B.
“Dead,’' said Mother 8., and went on
rocking.
* * * *
An hour later Brother Laurentian, the
Bush Brother, jogged down the dusty track.
He rode slowly, for he had to break it to
little Mrs. Smith that Dan, her husband,
had been picked up dead on the Howlong
road, run over by his own team.
Brother Laurentian was as fine in every
way as he looked. And he was an under-
standing man. He loved the Bush and its
people, and all kinds went to him in trouble.
He was no wowser; he sang a good song
and smoked a friendly pipe, and a glass of
beer on a hot day was cool in his mouth.
He beat the boys themselves at breaking-in
an outlaw; he swore like the officer and the
gentleman he was. And his reproof was
terrible.
Folded now in his pocket was a letter
received that morning from his bishop. Not
exactly a letter. A silken, perfectly-expressed
epistle it was, intimating that a befitting
thank-offering for the mercies vouchsafed to
the Brother’s ministry in his far bush-parish
would be a cheque to help spread the Word
amongst our dear black brother, the heathen
of Papua, this being the true mission of the
Australian Church. It was an exquisitely-
typed appeal. . . .command.
Brother Laurentian smiled his slightly-
twisted smile as 1m visualised his Lordship’s
perfect secretary with her discreetly smooth
fair hair, her ankle-lengtli gown of black
satin with its touch of white at the wrists,
and her grave sweet smile.
Dear black brother, forsooth! Pig-fat
twicers! He knew about them from his
cousin the Resident Magistrate. Howling-
hymns in the sun to get out of working, and
the missionary-hearted Government stuffing
them with good food w'hilst white children
starved!
And none knew better than Brother
Laurentian that there were missions and
money needed right here. He thought on
the case of the girl of thirteen sold by her
own mother to an Afghan olil enough to be
her grandfather, and now nursing her baby
in ’Glian town at Oodnadatta. And of other
more terrible things. Money and missions
were both needed here. None knew that
better than lie..
I-lis horse snorted and hung back as he
hitched it to the verandah post. Inside
everything was strangely still. No one
about. He strode through to the bedroom
and opened the door. Mother B. was sleep-
ing-drunk in the rocking-chair, with an
empty brandy bottle in the old cardboard
box beside her. Her head sagged over. And
on the bed little Mrs. Smith with a wan
smile on her lips had slipped into the sleep
from which there is no awakening.
Back in his corrugated-iron rectory that
night Brother Laurentian crushed his
bishop’s perfectly-expressed appeal into a
crumpled ball and set a lighted match to it.


This is a group of Stuart Crystal. It is the
product of Stuart’s of Stourbridge, England
— makers, in bygone days, of much of the old
cut glass that is most highly prized to=day.
It is not a whit less beautiful, this modern
crystal from the original glass works, but,
unlike the antique glass, it is priced within
the means of other than wealthy collectors.
The name Stuart is etched on every piece.
.°y y :
. .'- ■ : ;
mm
m
>2
M
#§|jg3g§jggjgsaa#*’
1
■ ••• •':: V
a
iff
V
- »r^a?
■n
£
#s#
Mi
i
«
•••-.•
H 9
inn
ypygs
ISi
r
English Hand=made Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold.
The Turning of a Worm.
AS RECORDED BY CECIL MANN.
MURRAY swore quite early that he’d
turn all right. “She’s eating me;
swallowing me whole!” That he
didn’t turn at once was due to a number of
things. There was, for instance, his up-
bringing ; most important in the early days
of their life together. It was that upbring-
ing that made him marry her: and, by
Heavens, he had once or twice sworn to him-
self, he wouldn’t bring up any kids of his
like that! Woman sacred? Pish! Chivalry?
Pish again ! She had attracted him; he had
liked her; but, good Lord, the force of it
had lost grip in a few months.
Go and tell her, he said to himself; go and
tell her finis, napoo. You want to get out
of it; nothing has happened; let us break
it while the breaking’s good.
But he hadn’t.
It would not be playing the game; letting
someone down who had relied on you; there
were such things as principles; they had
been drummed into him; school code; stuff
of books; Galahad, and God knows what.
So they had married. He would have
bolted cheerfully from the church. There
was an incredible wedding breakfast in an
incredible restaurant. There was a honey-
moon. Yes; that was all right in its way;
but he was not long in realising that his
old life was slipping off. Nothing much at
first: only, “You’re a naughty, bad boy,
throwing matches on the floor like that”;
only, “Do yon like them? No, I can’t stand
dogs.” Things like that.
She had seen him throw matches down
before. Damn the matches! He didn’t
want to throw them down. But what on
earth could you do? Put them back in
the box? Yes; and always be pulling out
dead ’mis when you wanted to light your
pipe! He had seen fellows doing it, and
had rated them mean; thought they must
have saved them to get cheap lights off the
gas. He didn’t tell her ; what was the use?
Easier to put them back in the confounded box.
. But the dog. She knew all about the dog.
There was no excuse for being so downright
over that, surely! He let that remark go,
too; time enough to have it out when it
came to whether he’d keep Spider or not.
There were other things; he didn’t like
wearing vests; reckoned they were absurd
in a country like Australia; stupid inheri-
tances from a frozen country where the
weather made them sensible enough. If the
position had been reversed; if England had
developed from Australia instead of the other
way round, would‘they be wearing two-piece
light cotton clothes over there? Of course
they wouldn’t. It took a climate like Aus-
tralia’s, making everybody contented to doze
up against things, from verandah-posts to
loans, to have a few million male asses
sweltering through mid-summer in clothes
that London would have thought ample for
winter. Not quite as bad as that, perhaps;
but damn near it.
Khe thought he should wear a vest. He
looked ever so much better in one. Oh, well,
he’d humor her; they could have that out.
too, later on.
The honeymoon was barely over before
she began to be unwell. It inconvenienced
him, after the sort of life he’d been used to;
but she argued with some logic that they
couldn’t afford a maid. They might need
all their money later on. She said it mean-
ingly, and he knew. Phew! It was like
Ethel M. Dell!
In no time she really was unwell; and it.
went on for months, getting worse and worse.
He had rubbers put on his shoes, though he
hated the things, so that he could go more
softly about the house. He had to admit
that Spider’s barking at night could be try-
ing ; he had never noticed it before, because
before he used to sleep at night instead of
minding a sick person. So Spider had gone.
He felt like a traitor, leading him off; more
of a traitor than if he had been going off
with the dog, and not going back. But there
had been nothing in the code to say you
couldn’t be traitorous to a dog; and there
was a lot. in it about unselfishness being the
basis of a happy married life.
He forgot about Spider in his combined
job of breadwinner and nursemaid. The
code had made him acutely susceptible to
feminine suffering. He would have given
a thousand Spiders to have her well.
He used to like one or two glasses of ale
with the boys, and had kept having them in
spite of her gentle but firm hints that she
would rather lie didn’t. Now, won over .by
her helplessness, he suddenly stopp'ed having
them. The boys gigged him about it; hoped
the complaint wasn’t very serious; said
among themselves —lie knew; it had been
said in the old days about this or that de-
serter —that his wife had him by the ear or
somewhere. Let them say it! They didn’t
understand! He hadn’t understood then
what a man could owe to a woman.
He knew now that it was through him
that she was suffering. He tortured himself
with that thought. The doctor noticed his
pinched, worried look. “Oh, well, you know,
these things must happen if you get
married,” he told him. That only drove
the blame home. It was his fault! If he
hadn’t
But what the devil was the use of going
on like that He had —and that was the
end of it. If she died
The thought thoroughly frightened him.
He used to go down on Friday nights and
have a game of snooker ; sometimes it, would
develop into Murrumbidgee, and they’d have
a jolly good time till midnight, or after. It
wasn’t the gamble; it was the company.
Tom Reynolds, of the “Chronicle,” would
be there; Hendrick, out of the opposition
bank, the Savings; McGrath, a dozen others.
You can have the rest of the week, he’d told
her early, but let me have Friday night.
She had agreed readily; surprisingly, after
that incident or so of the honeymoon.
Since she had been ill he had had Mrs.
Godfrey in on Friday nights to stay with
her. Now he cut out the Friday festivities
- —temporarily, of course.
She became worse. He got to working the
ground about the house into a garden in his
spare time. He did not care for it much,
but sbe did. It was doing him a world of
good; she could see it. He thought: “So
used going after snipe with Spider”; but
he did not say so. When she was well again,
and the expense of the doctor, and the other
expense he knew was ahead, were things of
the past, he could have someone in to carry
on the good work, and be damned to the
garden. He could go out one or two after-
noons a week after snipe when they were
in. He might have a pointer, too, and try
out the quail ; only the small brown fellows
about there, but fair sport, all the same. H'e
could have his glass or two with file boys ;
Friday nights; and the rest of it. In the
“rest, of it” he didn’t include tossing matches
about wherever he wanted to ; he had for-
gotten he ever did so.
She became a good deal worse. Her
mother came to stay with them. This must
never happen again, she said. Damn it ail,
that wasn’t a fair go ! Putting all the con-
founded blame on to him. What had she
let her daughter get married for? She ought
to have known what could happen—she’d had
fourteen of her own.
But he took the censure; hung his head
shamefacedly, and felt more than ever
guilty ; more than ever eager to make amends.
In the next few weeks he wasn’t given
much chance to forget the obligation. Doll
had always been her favorite out of the
five girls ; if anything happened to Doll she
didn’t know what she’d do. She gave him
plenty of it over the breakfast egg.
Before the child was born he was nearer
to a nervous breakdown than he’d ever been.
He was quite unaware of it; worked like a
nigger; ate hastily; smoked his pipe end-
lessly.
The child was born. Next afternoon he
had a few glasses with the boys, wetting its
head. When he got home she did not say
anything, but, humming through the house a
little later, he heard her sobbing. He knew
why, and the code told him to go in and try
to comfort her. He was quite sober; but
when he came near her, repression, shame
and a myriad feelings got him under. He
stammered, stumbled ; his voice grew thick.
She told him weakly that he was drunk.
He knew he hadn’t had enough to make a
flapper drunk, but by the time her mother
came home from shopping, he was even more
helpless; and he got it from her!
H'e took it in quietly; it was no time for
kicking; but. he felt that he was losing hold.
Doll got better quickly. Three Fridays
after the child was born he thought it quite
all right to go down once more for a game
of snooker. The mother had gone home;
Doll would not have Mrs. Godfrey in to
stay with her; she would be all right, she
said.
“Well, that’s that,” he thought; and “she's
all right—jolly fine sort,” he thought, and
went down to the billiard-room.
When he got home she was sitting up
shivering; just staring at the wall. He told
himself that he had been selfish; had not
given her time to get properly right. But a
month later, when he went again, the same
thing happened. He saw her through the
window, sitting up, staring at nothing. He
strode up the steps; he’d have it out; it
wasn’t a fair go; it would be a different
thing if he was going out with women or
something. He’d given up Spider; he’d even
knocked off having a glass with the boys;
Aaron’s billiard-room on Friday night was
his club. He didn’t think of the matches,
which now he carefully saved, nor of the
absurd vests, which now he religiously wore.
And when he had got inside he didn’t think
of anything not provided for in the code.
Doll was depending on him; relying on him.
She was the woman he had taken to cherish.
He said earnestly, “Oh, I’m sorry, Doll;
I thought you’d be asleep.”
“I can’t sleep when you’re out like this,”
she told him dully.
H'e knew it was now or never; Sydney
or the Bush ; Freedom or
He braced himself, and met her eyes. She
was looking at ■ him with the same sort of
searching, beseeching look that Spider had
given him on their last day.
A week later they missed him from
Aaron’s. A year later he took first prize for
asters at the Embar Flower Show. He had
afternoon-tea with Doll and the Mayoress
and the archdeacon’s wife, and cracked jokes
that had them all in fits of laughter. When
he got home he was so pleased with the
asters that he went round to give them some
extra attention.
Jimminy!
A worm on one of them nearly an inch and
a half long!
He called Doll to see it. Then he nipped
it off, and bis rubber-shod heel turned it into
the ground without any brotherly feeling
whatever.
The Way of It.
To this green region,
Where tall trees grew,
Caine a sturdy axeman
When the land was new.
Felled he the timber,
Keen blade a-swing,
Axe-stroke and axe-stroke
Far echoing.
Then came the ploughman
Daylong to toil,
Strong arm and bright share
Turning the soil.
As thus he labored
Through frost and heat,
About him the mould showed
All marrow-sweet..
Next came the sower
In sun and rain,
Up-field and down-field
Casting his grain.
Ere gone was summer
From wood and field
Came last the reaper,
Reaping the yield.
As bread, white, wlieaten,
Blest folk, we eat,
Glory to the brown soil
All marrow-sweet.
N.B.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


MS
mg / M
sBs|
1
t ifc. i
rir S»M - '«
I iJSSllfiM* F
I ftßlmllWl' Ants
'WBamwf M
IMS, & Um tms
I i-7 Cl'Wtlfi
£ ;i • .' •* **
«S&r ? K*i a p >.Sr .'>:'
HgEj^dP-l
MsSRk sbmps
II
MORSE
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
The Westinghouse Brake Co.
of Australasia, Ltd.,
CONCO.ID WEST, N. S. WALES
(tueeiismiiu —iEwij.Hi-.a * cHCBCH, wnouaun
N.Z. Office —03-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
-“Chaneerv House/’ 185 Rourke Street, Melbourne.
. A {rents —-Messrs, KiDERj SMITH & CO, J,TD, Adelaide, S.A.
“THE AGE"
Established 185 4.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 122,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan ai'ea,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
122,501.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, CL
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office; 47 Fleet Street.
TLhc ©omtnion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to——
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
the mercury
by virtue of having the largest
circulation and the widest influence
is the dominating daily newspaper
in Tasmania (its circulation exceeds
the combined figures of the other
dailies in the State). “THE MER-
CURY” is a home newspaper in the
fullest sense: not only is it delivered
in the home but it is read there, and
holds the interest and confidence of
its readers by reason of its sanity,
completeness and service.
Average Daily Circulation
21,083
No Advertising Campaign is ever
launched in Tasmania without “THE
MERCURY” taking the leading
place.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N. S. W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgav House, SO Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7055.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 92 Fleet Street, E.C. 4.
Do You Know?
“The Week”
has special columns on the following
matters of interest to the man on the
land.
Agriculture
The Orchard
The Piggery
Poultry
Dairying
In the Garden
The Grazier
Sugar Industry
Nature Notes
And many more items that will
interest and benefit him by reading.
Price 3d. per copy
From All Newsagents, or
14/6 Per Annum, Post Paid, from
THE TELEGRAPH
Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Queer and Elizabeth Streets,
L ibane, Queensland,
who also issue “The Telegraph”
daily—l 2 noon, 3 p.m. and 5 p.nt.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern | s
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney
To keep
smiling &
vigorous-
KEEP
HEALTHY
SSSKS*?
<Z>
PILLS
PRIC
ST.
x
Health is the key to happiness. Radiant
smiles and high spirits speak of a system
vital, active and clean. Health depends
on that, you know! Once you become
constipated, wastes and poisons vitiate
the blood, and the system slowly becomes
sluggish, inactive. Eyes get discoloured —
tongue becomes furred—the complexion
shows sallow; headaches and biliousness follow.
If you suspect auto-toxication is rrjuiug yout
health, take
PILLS
A GUINEA
A BOX'
ST
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
information, copies,
“Saturday
rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Co
vening Express” obtainable from,;
W. K. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
8*
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers,
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6,8 months from
for which I enclose £ •
‘NAME
ADDRESS ••••■• -
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
* #*
0°
s®'
6 ,i>
V
•'* ..•** # . •’"
• - * Q'vV' 1 4 i^


I
»aa
: -
--
m
MS
II!
» n
m
a a
>
mt
i m
mm
i
JS
4’ -J
T
‘•ri: iHL*!:-;": ' '•• V
SiEjpteSigK;
ill!®
■ .* : ▼
iilili
■
!ii
a
pa
-
mm.
II
l«
iilft !«
Iff njß a
4> ■ .5-
II
IMa
Sfffia a ■■:■>.■-.
: ■ : : . •
ffSilpifflßfiff fiS;::
ISSSIHi
flliliiaa-a
1
..a.
lililpß
Billsin'
I
. ■
ii : : : :
4 l"
immmnmmmm
BP
a 'la a
a
(£ o»sn«*e«s£) ]
-Ml
Nsr«t
Wsm
fcSiw
i £4
aSi?
-
cjjmjjjU:
: :p
:■
$£ ..
illlpiliiv.
ffiffllppißjii;: • .
■alls
91
■
::
ftSi
■ 3s
■ m l 1 a
in I I
■
JlS’’
e-sv
&i QzimM
m
llillllli!
H)
y rt
■' SaiSßiii iisi llBasili
rHfijiiH
iiiililli
r* i~,
<sho
IllSSllllf!
liil !•] ||j[j| !|Hg
!: ii '-■
mm
-
i:
■I
■■lll
a
-
iliftailii
. ■ ' V ■ ' •:■ ■.. :
WONDERFUL
WHISKY
